

The Spirit of Age and Wisdom
R. Gr. WATKINS dfc 00.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
* —FOB— ...
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY
TERMS
OH ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION. t
<fe PIETE
C?r LIMITED.
74 Castlereagh St.74. Sydney
CAPITAL 5.200,000 ‘Phone City 9325
flrjnc/rej Jf- 29 Kino 5t.. Newcastle., N-SW-71517 SwanstqnSt
40 Adelaide st,Brisbane.Q. S 97 A Castlereagh 51.159 George St. West, Sydney.
Joseph W Hill, General Manager.
hfgh
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont, de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
I'm unfavorable climatic and working
conditions we recommend
CHROMOL
91
(Chrome Tan Leather),
The Super Driving Belt.
It gives longer and more efficient service.
J. C.Ludowici&Son Ltd.
Tanners & Leather Belting Makers,
Pioneer Works,
117 York Street, Sydney
THE BEST !
H
23
0?
w/a
m
m
•:.i
tiea
nd
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
Junket
ticszmm
'±V\Z
for INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
** Not the same as others .
It lasts longer—
that’s why you should use it.
Most ready-roofings look the same, but under actual-service conditions they cannot compare
with Malthoid.
It is the careful choice of materials and constant, expert supervision that makes it certain the
quality of Malthoid is always maintained and ensures its exceptionally long life.
Write for actual samples and full particulars.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (P. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
A new ar\cJ revised edition of the
"^•feffoe" is now available,
and wed! be sent post free on
appileaftlon to
JOHN LYiAGHT (Australia) LIMITED
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY.
ĥgh
the recognised standard
of quality throughout
the Commonwealth
» GIN
(The Square Bottle with
the Heart-shaped Label.)
Agents—OßME, KEXGWIN OBb Co., Ltd., SYDNEY.
Special Australian Metals for the Engineer.
gf
No. 1 GRAPHINE Anti-
friction Metal. A grade
f©r every bearing job.
Highest quality made.
Equal to best imported.
Highest Quality.
Ask particulars of “Propellor”
Brand Rolled Copper, Brass,
Muntz Metal, Manganese and
Tobin Bronze, in rourtd, square,
flat or hexagon. All usual trade
sizes.
Prompt Delivery.
“Austral” Chill Cast
Phosphor Bronze.
Superior in evtery feature
to sand-cast bronze. Re-
markable longevity.
Machines easily and saves
tools.
Send for Booklets.
hf
NOYES BROS
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
(MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD., 499-501 Beurke Street, Melbourne; and Barling Building, Adelaide.
Also from GEO. KENT LTD,, Perth ; and CHAS. E. BERNAYS, Brisbane.
gdhgf
TOOTH PASTE
Uted Every Day
Prevent* Decay*
OPAI.OZD
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2118.
Thursday, September 16, 1920.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1920 is now ready, and will be posted
free to any address on application.
DYMOC’K’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD., 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.—Advt.
Watermans (Ideal l Fountain Pen
Put it in your diary.
There are many figures which you cannot memorise, and
many items for which it is advisable to have per-
manent records. Buy Waterman’s Ideal and
you will have a Pen that you carry about
and use on every occasion. It’s the
world’s best —and absolutely reliable.
L. G. SLOAN. Ltd.,Oysjpctl Comer
London, England.
Australia : Hakold D. Dixon,
105, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
1U&
aWL
Three Types :
“Sell-Filling,"
“Safety,'' & " Regular."
Of Stationers and y eivellers
everywhere.
This Week’s Toilet Hints
A RARE COLLECTION OF BEAUTY HINTS'FROM NEAR AND FAR.-
HOME RECIPES.
GETTING RID OF FEMININE
MOUSTACHES.
“Practical Suggestions.”
To women who are annoyed by disfiguring
downy hair growths a method of permanently
eradicating the same will come as a piece of
good news. For this purpose pure powdered
pheminol may be used. Almost any chemist
should be able to supply an ounce of this
drug. The recommended treatment is de-
signed not only to remove the disfiguring
growth instantly, leaving no trace, but also
to actually kill the hair roots, without
irritating the skin.
HOW TO HAVE THICK AND PRETTY
HAIR,
“Home Talents.”
Soaps and artificial shampoos ruin many
beautiful heads of hair. Few people know
that a teaspoonful of good stallax dissolved
in a cup of hot water has a natural affinity
for the hair and .makes the most delightful
shampoo imaginable. It leaves the hair
brilliant, soft and wavy, cleanses the scalp
completely and greatly stimulates the hair
growth. The only drawback is that stallax
seems rather expensive. It comes to the
chemist only in sealed packages which
retail at four shillings. However as this is
sufficient for twenty-five or thirty shampoos,
it really works out very cheaply in the end.
BLACKHEADS, OILY PORES, ETC.
A unique new method instantly removes and
corrects them.
The new sparkling face-bath treatment
rids the skin of blackheads, oiliness and en-
larged pores almost instantly. It is per-
fectly harmless, pleasant and immediately
effective. All you have to do is to obtain
some tablets of stymol from youi* chemist,
drop one into a glass of hot water, ami
after the resulting effervescence has sub-
sided dab the affected portions of the face-
freely with the liquid. When you dry the
face you will find that the blackheads come
off on the towel, the large pores contract
and efface themselves, and the greasiness is
all gone, leaving the skin smooth, soft
and cool. This treatment should be
repeated a few times at intervals of several
days in order to make sure that the result
shall be permanent.
GREY HAIR UNNECESSARY.
A simple, old-fashioned home-made lotion that will
restore the color of youth.
One need not resort to the very question
able expedient of hair dye in order not to
have grey hair. The grey hair can easily
be changed back to a natural color in a few
days’ time merely by the application of a
simple, old-fashioned and perfectly harmless
home-made lotion.’ Procure from your
chemist two ounces of tammalite concentrate
and mix it with three ounces of bay rum.
Apply this to. the hair a few times with a
small sponge, and you will soon have the
pleasure of seeing your grey hair gradually
darkening to the desired shade. The lotion
is pleasant, not sticky or greasy, and does
not injure the hair in any way. [3
WtiJlff
4263
WHISKY
MELLOWED with age
and primed with all the zest-
giving qualities that only expey
distillation can pro-
duce.
§ ,,
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT! LUNGS!
’8 Eumenthol
AN IDEAL REMEDY.
NOS
CYB
mt
swrau»s»<
man
vivi
For Coughs, Colds, Sore
Bronchitis, Influenza, and the
Prevention of Consumption.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says: —“Proved to be effective bac-
tericidally as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, EUMENTHOL
do not interfere with the Digestion; on the y»
they have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of tne
when taken after meals. 1
The Red Page
Swiss Democracy v. Australian
Felix Bonjour, a former President of the
Swiss National Council, does Australia a
special service in giving us an account of
the machinery of government in what has
come to be regard eft as the most advanced
democracy in Europe, if not the world. He
does Australia a special service because he
provides the ground on which to meet the
Direct Actionist who wants us to throw
away what is a more democratic form of
government, on the whole, than that of evgn
the model republic. It is quite true that we
do not possess the Landsgemeinden of a
few of the cantons or States. The system
of a people’s Parliament, in which the whole
community assembles, is not suited to a
country of such vast distances as our own.
And it is a very doubtful boon in even the
half-dozen handkerchief States of Switzer-
land which still hang on to it. It may have
been all right iu~a very simple civilisation.
But in these days, when the operations of
government are more technical and complex,
what is everybody’s business is nobody’s,
with disastrous results to all. The old folk-
moot never contemplated, for example, a
State Bank. The canton of Uri, however,
established one, and it was so impossible for
the people’s Parliament to properly super-
vise it that the State w r as only saved from
bankruptcy by the Confederation. Of course
even where there is this people’s Parliament,
or meeting of all the electors, there is also an
elected body; but for the most part these
bodies, lacking power, also lack sense of
responsibility.
Most of the cantons —there are 25 of them
—have superseded the folk meeting by the
referendum. Bonjour admits that there is a
tremendous volume of argument against the
referendum both in theory and in practice;
and he confesses that it has had its success
in Switzerland largely because of special cir-
cumstances. Nevertheless it, makes this
general appeal, which is stronger to-day than
at most periods of the world’s history :
There is no better safeguard against revolution
than the referendum. Revolutions have ceased in
Switzerland, since this democratic institution has
come into general use. While a minority can
often pretend that the decision of a Parliamentary
majority does not express the will of the people,
the verdict of the people is definitive, at least for a
time.
But Switzerland does not escape, any
more than Australia does, encroachment
upon the true function of the referendum —
that is, to reach the individual without re-
gard to party. “When a non-political mea-
sure,” said a very prominent Federal Coun-
cillor recently—“a measure which is no con-
cern of parties and constitutes no breach of
their principles—is made the occasion to
gather a number of discontents which have
no connection whatever with that law, one
wonders uneasily whether the referendum is
a good institution.” Bonjour, who is an
ardent supporter of the referendum, thinks
that this misuse of the instrument is becom-
ing less frequent as the citizens become bet-
ter educated.
In framing the Australian Constitution
the Swiss plan of requiring a majority of the
States as well as a majority of the citizens
to sanction a new Constitutional provision
was adopted. There was no such justifica-
tion for that here as there was in Switzer-
land, where one group of cantons is German
and another French, one group strenuously
Protestant and another Catholic. But the
Federal referendum in Switzerland is
limited and comparatively little used: it
is in the cantons that it is most employed,
and in some matters in all States and in
many matters in some States it is compul-
sory. It seems to be the pretty general
opinion offtside that it is a machine of
obstruction —that “No” is the almost invari-
able answer. Bonjour warmly contests that
Anew: —
The Constitution which governs the Swiss Con-
federation came into operation in 1874. Of the 20
amendments of the Constitution which have been
compulsorily laid before the people since that date —
I refer here only to those originated by the Federal
Council or the Chambers—l 6 have been accepted.
And of the rejected four two were accepted
at a later date. Thus only two out of 18
distinct proposals have been defeated; and
Bonjour says that, from the point of view
of the Federalist, there were excellent
grounds for it in both cases. The figures
relating to - laws or decrees upon which a
vote has been taken are different. Of 31
votes 19 were against the proposed law.
Hundreds of laws were, of course, passed
in the 41 years which were not challenged.
In the cantons in the 10 years 1906-16 302
laws or decrees were the subjects of refer-
ence, and 229 were accepted. In the can-
tons also many hundreds of other laws were,
of course, not challenged; for only the few
German cantons have the compulsory refer-
endum as to proposed laws.
Then there is the initiative—in theory a
most potent instrument which we do not
possess. By it the people can do ■fvhatevmr
a Parliament can do. But of 10 proposals
submitted to the. people in the Federal sphere
—on the demand of 50,000 electors —only
two have been carried; and they would pre-
sently have been adopted without the initia-
tive. In effect, both in the Federation and
the States, it is an appeal from the Parlia-
mentary minority to the people; and there
would be very little if any use for it with
(1) proportional representation; (2) the
abolition of the detestable Party system of
government.
Switzerland is trying proportional repre-
sentation and still regards it as experimen-
tal, though Bonjour concedes that it “passes
from success to success.” He thinks little
of it himself, because it “compels Govern-
ments , to be continually negotiating with
parties.” It certainly seems that as a corol-
lary to proportional representation we must
ha\-e Ministerial Executive's elected for a
fixed term. Switzerland has that system;
only in practice its Ministers are always
members of Parliament elected not for their
capacity as administrators but for their
adroitness as politicians, and that is pro-
bably where its system fails.
But the Swiss, woman lias no vote in
Federal affairs and hardly anywhere has
she a voice in cantonal matters either. At
the most here and there she may vote in
the election of clergy and parish councils-
nowhere has she the political franchise
proper. Whether any democracy can be a
real democracy with more than half the
adult brains of the community shut out from
all direct participation, in the government
of the country is a matter on which
Australia and Switzerland are not likely
to agree. But this is significant: when,
on the heels of the first Bolshevik
successes in Russia, there was a small
outburst in Switzerland, one of the
prime demands of the quasi-soviet “re-
formers” was the suffrage for women. From
the point of view of the most advanced
reformer Australia thus has in democratic
government the fundamental thing that
Switzerland lacks. And that, of course,
makes the operations of the Direct Action
party in Australia all the more unpardon-
able.
Bonjour’s book is entitled Real Democracy
in Operation: The Example oj Switzerland;
and the English translation is published by
George Allen and Unwin.
The Short Story
Edward Dyson is right when he says (Red
Page 20/8/ v 2O) that “brevity is not in itself
a literary virtue,” but I think he is quite
wrong in “the Australian gospel of brevity
is based on false standards and is pro-
pounded by editors to serve their own pur-
pose.” It is agreed that a couple of Aus-
tralian magazines, offering the chance of
longer yarns, of yarns giving room for the
working-out of delicate atmospheric and psy-
chological problems and longer plots, would
be a better thing than the avalanche of
American stuff which snows the buyers
under; but their absence is not so largely
and heavy-handedly attributable to the Aus-
tralian journals’ view of shillings and pence.
In Australia our traditional limit is approxi-
mately 3500 words. Setting aside the many
things which may have made that tradition,
our youth and narrow public, the nature of
that public’s reading mind, the paucity of
journals which must cover all the interests
of that public, and a dozen other things
which would carry me far over the tra-
ditional limit, I submit that that rigid 3500
is a good thing. In the American journals
many yarns run to 7000 and 10,000, 5000 of
which are padding pure and simple. That
is good space-rate journalism if you can “get
it over,” but it’s a very poor short story.
Evident concentration is bad, as evident any-
thing is bad in literary expression, but the
vilest literary sin is evident padding. That
we are saved in Australia. On the other
side 1 will go so far as to say that only in
rare instances will you read an American
or English short story which would not be
the better for compression into 3500 wor Is.
Compression doesn’t always make for
skimpiness; in general it makes for direct-
ness, which is one of the essential literary
rules. (The quality of directness is one of
the causes, of our tradition which I had to
cut; in Australia most of us are at first
principles, and we like it neat.) Poe’s
“Gold Bug,” Wells’s “Country of the Blind,”
and Kipling’s “They” are not short stories ;
they .are fine long short stories whose place
is in a published collection, not in current
journalism. The De Maupassant sketches,
vivid and pungent, are short stories suitable
for inclusion in a journal devoted to univer-
sal interests, as are the few’ best of the O.
Henry yai-ns. Furthermore, these, with the
poignant Henry Lawson stories, have a high
place in literature, much higher than that
of the diffuse longer effort which will not
quite stretch to novelette length, and which
will generally, I think, quite easily and
advantageously compress to short-story
limits.
In the perfect 3500 yarn the semi-colon,,
the comma, the dash, the italicised word can
each be made to do the work of a par., if
you will allow’ that your reader’s mind is as
sensitive and as interested in what you are
saying as your own. If you won’t allow
that it isn’t worth while going on, any more
than it is if space rates obsess you. In the
form known as the short-story “the fewest
possible w’ords” is the first rule; and if there
is a low limit set by tradition here, I sub-
mit again that that is a good thing for Aus-
tralian literature, whatever it may be doing
to individual Australian journalists. The
end of the Australian law is pungency and
directness, of expression, which is the end
of all literary laws.
If we have novelettes, long short stories
and atmospheric arguments, or any other
quite legitimate forms which we feel we
must use, why, New. York speaks English,
and so in its way does London. More per-
tinently to our purpose both cities print it.
You wait four or five months for your
cheque or your MS., but either (in your
own view) is good when you get it.
FRANCIS BRIEN.
The Critics and the "Cockie”
For over two years I have not been able
to visit a theatre, so I have not seen “The
Boss Cockie” ; but I have read about him.
Moreover, whilst lying on the broad of my
back in hospital, I read Mr. Bedford’s story
of “Aladdin and the Boss Cockie.” No other
man in Australia, on the presk or off it,
could have written such a racy and rippling
odyssey of fun, frolic, fortune-questing and
fossicking, seasoned with wide-awake wis-
dom and footlight philosophy.
The dramatic.critic (God save the mark !)
in the service of the puissantly commercial
but crassly aesthetic daily press, and that
through no fault of his own, is too often the
indifferent recorder of dog-fights and meet-
ings of Shakspeare societies, the tester and
taster, in the course, of the same afternoon,
of wine at the Agricultural Show and the
tea and muffins of a Methodist stone-laying;
and he doesn’t know whether he will be
allotted for the evening a prize-fight, a Con-
servatorium classical concert, a dramatic
entertainment or a meeting of the share-
holders of the. Daily Exploiter Newspaper
Company. Poor, casual filler of the column-
length sausage-skins of available space that
the newspaper has to spare, he does, his
damned best, and gives no more frill to a
ball-dress than the proprietor demands, and
(Continued on page 24.)


VTprirygfrfirrye f^gdeg
a *f
Aoibeny Hordonvg
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ Spring and Summer
Fashions have been selected from the most
L desirable offerings, and present the most
Beautiful and Authentic Creations, reflecting perfect
Style-correctness as interpreted by the fascinating
modes of to-day. They are so refreshing—so
delightful—so new.
Our Guide to the Fashions contains faithful repre-
sentations and descriptions of the prevailing modes.
Send for your copy now. You may, with every
confidence, order from it—our reputation for Service,
Style, Quality and Price Moderation assuring you
of complete and lasting satisfaction.
D3.—The Insouciance of Taffeta
and the Glory of Georgette in
Slate combine to make of this a
Gown of Irreproachable Smart-
ness. The almost sleeveless cor-
sage and round yoke are brightly
offset with circular opaline beaded
effects. The lower portion of the
corsage is swathed in the Taffeta,
forming a sash effect at back. A
draping of the right side of skirt
and a gaily-colored posy dis-
creetly tucked in on the left, gives
the finish so smartly Parisienne.
Price 14 guineas
D4.—Mediterranean Blue in Georg-
ette and Charmeuse de Soi
fashions this Robe of Beauty.
The double-tiered knife-pleated
skirt is half enveloped with the
Charmeuse draping, which also
embellishes a portion of the cor-
sage and provides the sash effect.
The round yoke and abbreviated
sleeves give a spider-web effect in
brick-tinted beads. Faggot stitch-
ing gives cachet.
Price
18 guineas
Write to-day—or ring—for the charming
book of fashions. It is post free.
Mail orders receive every consideration
at the hands of a qualified staff.
■ 'Y? carriage on all Fashion Goods
m A.S.W.—and to the nearest port on
Interstate orders.
o
SSS
a
m
■o
xX-
&
•fl
* ~>
v^V
<3
v.
A
t
9
T
\
J>
Glegarv.ce aad
refiaeraerd;
arc per9oaif ied
in ifvc di9play9
u/hir(> avoid
■i(\e ex+reme
vogues.
Dl.—A Rich Shade of Cream
Serge fashions this Model
Costume. The long-style
coat is offset with large
patch pockets, exceptionally
narrow tie-belt, and rows of
silk braid. The panelled
skirt is also enhanced with
rows of silk braid.
Price ... 16 guineas
D2.— The practical sign of Spring
outfitting is represented by this
Handsomely-designed Suit in
Cream Gabardine. An unusual
feature of the long, though some-
what plainly-designed, coat is the
over-vest, fringe trimmed. The
skirt, cut on somewhat narrow
lines, features a panel back and
front, smart insets and pearl
button finishings.
Price
17 guineas
Anthony Hordern & Sons Limited
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.


is
As a perfect blood purifier Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills have a
world-wide reputation, and thousands of instances are
on record of their efficacy to overcome blood
disorders. Pimples, boils and blotches are signs of
impure blood, which should not be neglected. When
the blood is in an unhealthy state other ailments are
more or less present, for unless the blood is pure it is
lacking in that energy by which the organs of the
body perform their functions. External remedies,
powders, ointments, lotions, only alleviate; they do
not get at the cause. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
get at the cause by removing the disease from the
blood. They cleanse the system by stimulating the
liver and strengthening the kidneys, which filter the
blood and throw off the impure matter through the
regular channels.
i
i
1
Morses
I
1
I
liver
the
m
FOR
3S
W/s/syArs/rs/yti#.
mmmm.
'iA
They Make You Feel Brighter.


h
For
A Clear Complexion
Constipation disfigures the com'
plexion with pimples and blotches*
Poisonous matter which should have
been expelled from the system is
retained and gives rise to impurities
in the blood.
Pinkettes quickly clear away all
offending matter without the least
griping or discomfort. They are a
corrective for bad breath, will clear
the complexion, and are recom-
mended for torpid liver, biliousness,
headaches, constipation, and when-
ever a gentle laxative is required.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin/
Itie Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:—From 17/6 per day.
10/- per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
m
8
a
zms&gmm
an
JL
'hawing
Bottle
de-mounted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Ice-Cold 72 hrs. Hot 24 hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from l / 2 -pint up.
Icy-Hot Bottles are
ideal for all climates
and are made for
hard usage.
Extra Protection is
ensured by a coiled
spring and pad under
bottle which absorbs
jolts and jars and
makes the bottle
practically unbreak-
able.
Absolutely
Sanitary,
because the
spring - tight
neck - fitting
prevents
leakage of liquid into the outer
case.
The Name ICY-HOT clearly
stamped on the bottom of each
bottle is a guarantee of the
Standard of Perfection.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES.
Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
The ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.,
159 West Second Street,
Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Icy-Hot Jar
for solid food
or ice-cream .
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist. Southampton, England
CELEBRATED
The Rapid Cure for Corn
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns, old and young-—hard or soft, and
that remedy is A’CORN SILK, which
removes the worst corn in a few days, and the
sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure —it kills them. It is a painless cure—
you don’t feel them going:. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—
Duerdin& Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley. Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
K. W. Bradley, Fitzroy Buildings, Adelaide Street.
Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Aberdeen House,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart.
R. H. Maxwell & Co., 1S Howard Street
Perth, W. A.
fgdh
Fashion’s Favorite
A Brocade Bag
For Day or Evening.
We instance one of our many distinctive styles. It
is of handsome silver brocade, with a nickel frame
and silk lining with an inside gathered pocket.
Price 32/6
Mention X 33 when ordering. We pay postage all
over the Commonwealth.
Write for our illustrated catalogue of Ladies’ Hand-
bags, Leather Travelling Goods, etc.
The American Bag Stores, Ltd.
Corner King anti Pitt Streets;
Strand Corner, Pitt Street;
Sydney Arcade, George Street,
SYDNEY.
THE DENYER ECLIPSE
TRIPLE CRUSH EMASCULATOR
is in great demand by keen-thinking Stockowners. The scientific construction of
this instrument ensures quicker, easier and better results. It is hand-forged
from the Ipest steel for durability, and each instrument is thoroughly tested before
being sent out. Adopt this better method of castration —it saves time and money
and eliminates the- danger of haemorrhage, which always attends the 'use- of old-
fashioned instruments and methods. Secure your Eclipse Triple Crush Emasculator
from a big consignment just arrived.
Price GO/- N.S.W. Postage, 9d.; Interstate 1/2.
DENYER BROS.,
Veterinary
Specialists
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR SEA SICKNESS
& TRAIN SICKNESS
MOTHERSILL’S has received the
unqualified endorsement of the leading
papers of the world, and the finest testi-
monials from the world’s greatest men,
women, and institutions. Amongthese are
Bishop Taylor-Smith F haplain General
of the British Forces), Doctors, Bankers,
Polytechnic Tours, Salvation Army, etc.
%
SB
33
Sold Under a Positive Guarantee to
Prevent and Cure Sea or Train
Sickness or Money Returned.
MOTHERSILL’S is guaranteed rot to contain
Cocaine, Morphine, Opium, Chloral, or any ol
the coal-tar products.
NO BAD AFTER EFFECTS.
All Chemists, in Large and Small Boxes.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO.. LTD.,
Aberdeen House, 204 Clarence Jst., Sydney
George hotel,
St. Hilda.. Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. ~. £41,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
The Greatest
So Simple a Child
Marvel of
the Age.
Can Work It.
376
m
V'3
r^i
376
Hand Embroiderer
Embroiders in a day what would take a month
by hand.
Works anything on anything.
From the Finest Georgette to the
Thickest Curtain Material.
Printed instructions with every machine; also free demonstrations
and teaching at Malcolm Buildings, Malcolm Lane, near Bridge
Street, Sydney; and at Room Six, 6th Floor, Stock Exchange
Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVE (WHOLESALE ONLY) :
Eastern Trading Co. Ltd., Malcolm Place, Sydney.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Echo’s Answer.
What sang Orpheus? Echo, tell!
To your caverns you have carried
Those winged words to music married,
than the swaying bell
From its cloudy eerie crying,
Swinging, singing,
Ever flying;
Shriller than its call and wilder,
Softer than its fall and milder,*
.Jewel words that careless fell,
You have strung them —Echo, tell!
Ah, release them! Jx>ng they’ve lain
Prisoned in your wild’ring hollows
Where all music music follows,
Winding in melodious chain,
Deeper, further, fainter yearning,
Flying, dying,
Ne’er returning,
In recesses, dim, untroubled,
At the world’s rim, tossed and doubled,
Till it falls like windless rain—
Echo, yield those words again !
Echo to her crystal cell
Catches up my words with laughter,
Flings them far and follows after,
Sporting on the aery swell.
Mocking my impassioned pleading,
Hasting, wasting,
Still receding;
Lucid as the light and fleeter,
Fountain-bright but chiming sweeter,
Naught replying save this knell:
“What sang Orpheus? Echo, tell!”
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.
Crepuscular.
Immutable Love stands. We may not flee
From his behests, nor shall we ’scape the
flame
Of his fierce wrath if we revolt. Sin, shame,
.Joy, fear and rapture mark his empery ;
Delight stands dimpling ever at his knee.
Strong are his ardors that no use cam tame.
Mercy died in him even as he came,
Rose to the rosy breast of Cythera, she
The mother of gods and men. And yet....
and yet
How well we love thee, Love! How we
adore
Thy terrible ravenous munificence!
For on a night we saw thine eyelids wet
With timid, grateful tears as never before,
And knew the grace of passion outleaping
sense.
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
A King’s Wine.
What is a King’s wine? Is it such a drink
As Cleopatra soaked her jewel in?
Is it the hue of blood when on the brink
Of revolution nren cry of old sin
And tear the trappings from the hid decay,
Witness to tyrannies of yesterday?
What is a King’s wine? We all “'know the
cup
Is gold and rarely chased, the shining rim
Wiped by a courtier’s mouth, lest when he
sup
There should be hellebore the eyes to dim
In death too sudden for a nation's peace,
Though other slaves were freed by that
release!
What is a King’s wine? Is it royal love
For some fair consort, circled on the brow
And perfumed for his kisses? White as dove
liis princely fingers stroke the plumage
now.
But Kings’ loves lightly and as swiftly tire,
And she is too unversed to feed desire!
What is a King’s wine? Is it some pale
face
Behind an arras, where a secret stair
Goes winding down towards a garden place.
Hands meeting in the dark, the heated air
Full of the spice and passion of the South,
And the wild cling of that forbidden mouth?
What is a King’s wine? Shouting of the
crowd ;
Garlands about high doors, and flowers
flung
On carrefours ! Virtues proclaimed aloud
To down the babbling of a whispering
tongue
That mutters of a foul, neglected slum
To break the harmonies of fife and drum?
What is a King’s wine? Bubbling, spark-
ling up
Yellow as topaz, or as rich and red
As a hibiscus bloom—suppose the cup
From all the cellars of a world were fed
With all the finest brands the vintners bring,.
Ah, it might yet be empty to the King!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Plain Grey Eyes.
There was a man whose eyes were black
Said he loved me—and never came back.
There was a man with true-blue eyes
Said he loved me —and told me lies.
Love's a rover who surely flics
To.-find blue skies when the weather is
wet;
Only the man with plain grey eyes
Liked, me once, and he likes me yet.
There was a man with brown eyes, too:
What became of him I forget,
But in the beginning, long ago,
Somebody liked me who likes me yet.
Romance goes legging and, passion dies;
Maids grow weary and m&n forget.
Here's to the man with plain grey eyes '
Who liked me a Wtle, and likes vie vet!
N.S.W,
McENSAY.


/
\
w
//A
\
i
minim
ni l
' \
\ w'
\x\\\w
\\\
\ , !
h
2
%
X
LD-
£
•' o
A^l
:A
/
\\V ,
NO
4>
N
X
<3
S 3
o
*33
&
2^
F a<jrr^
py
0
a
su SM e b
d
MTtA-.A
2S
<n
W. B. Ckaffey Presents the Little Normey to Australia.
T
HE Little Normey comes from the Sunraysed Settlements
and bids fair to become the most popular confection on the
Australian market. It is made from selected sun-dried
grapes, the richest and most nourishing fruit known. To-day the
demand outstrips the supply by tons, not only in Australia, but
abroad, so that wholesalers and retailers will realise the reason for
short supplies at lengthened intervals. Big endeavors are being
made to overcome all difficulties, and the coming record season
should put all right.
The day is not far away when the young and old of distant
countries will know the Little Normey as do the young and
grown-ups in Australia.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.YV. Vustralia, for Transmission by Post a& a Newspaper.
Vol. 41.—N0. 2118.
THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER 16, 1920.
Price 9d.
THE NEW WORSHIP.
“The bookmakers have announced that they are going to take Saturday off, as they do very well out of fite days’ incense burnt at the national shrine.”
Sydney Trades Hall rumor.
“Oh, High Priests of our god, come back! Thy humble servants will work Saturday morning and Sunday, too, if it
is thy behest. But for the capitalists—never!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, or
Musg-rave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.'
(In Advance, Only.)
I'or £1 16s. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £it per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form *of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or N ewspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention, Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To- Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad. .
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and IV. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings , London E.C.J/;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Ilolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; International House,
hi Kerk Street, Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Mil Hastingp Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; the Boston Hat Works and News
Co., 109 A Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. —Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; J. Roland Kay Co., 18)9
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Liberty News
Co., Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth
Avenue and 27 th Street, New York; Schulte News
Agency, Bryant Park, b2nd Street and 6th Avenue,
Nerv York City; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago; Golden Gate News Agency,
719 Market Street, Chicago; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pcdder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore.— John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon.— W. G. P. Perera, 16 Raillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai, Kulamadau and
Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth. Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Bloz. to lOoz..
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, boz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1920.
OUR RAILWAYS, WHICH AREN’T
OURS AND NEVER WERE.
In all the world there is nothing else like
the Australian railway system. It is a sys-
tem in which all the capital and a little
more (accumulated deficits met out of
lOU’s) is preference- capital (i.e., borrowed
money) carrying a high cumulative dividend.
But unlike most preference capital this is
liable to be recalled (£73,000,000 of it is
liable to be recalled m 1922-3-4), and every
time a big slab of it is called for the country,
in these trying times, knows less than' it
did the previous time what to do about the
matter. The dividend that has to be earned
is always liable to be increased, not out of
earnings and by the arrangement of both
parties, but on the mere say-so of one party
and with no regard to earnings. As the pre-
ference shareholders are mostly foreign (in
fact, they may be said to be all foreign, for
Australia owes far more in London than
the amount spent on railways), there are
two distinct parties, one of which collects
and puts np the dividend without any re-
sponsibility for the working of the business,
while the other does the grind and pays
the money. The preference creditor isn’t
limited in his exactions by fear of wrecking
his own business and killing the bird that
lays the golden egg as he would be if he
were the shareholder or debenture-holder
of a private . railway syndicate, for
he has a lien on all the rest of
the country’s property, public and pri-
vate. in addition. He mhy overdo the extor-
tion, of course, but fie reckons to go a long
way before that happens. The lines are
under seven different controls, which doesn’t
make for cheap management or for the show-
ing of a solid front to the preference share-
holder ; and they are of five different gauges,
which makes for chaos. Two of the gauges
don’t matter, but the other three are so
important that the securing of uniformity
means the reconstruction of nearly three-
fourths of the system to secure the. best
gauge (either 63in. or 56jin.), and of about
half the system to unify on the worst
and least serviceable one (42in.). The
supremely important line (Brisbane-Perth) is
under six managements. It lias three gauges
and they change five times. The lines were
laid out not so much for profit as to steal
traffic from each other even at a loss, and
the loss has eventuated. The amount of
needless haulage is incredible. No Royal
Commission has ever sat (though Judge
Ewing seems always available at a price)
to discover: (1) What proportion of freight
is loaded and unloaded twice or thrice by
reason of changes of gauge when once should
suffice; (2) how much of the 54,000,000
miles that the trains run in an average
year are needless miles through export goods
being carried sometimes eight times the need-
ful distance as a sacrifice to State or Big
City jealousy ; (3) how many of the SO,OOO
or more employees, being employed in super-
fluous haulage and superfluous loading and
unloading, are as unproductive as if they
spent their lives burning incense in honor of
Baal • and (4) '■fie cost o f all this,
* * * «
There was a recent wail from Westralia to
the effect that the State’s railways for the year
just closed lost in round figures £400,000,
or about £l5O per mile. That, of course, is
quite apart from the loss on Federal lines
inside the State. And as the award of last
December, raising the minimum wage by
2s. per day and made restrospective fog four
months, lias been already denounced and
another demand put in for a further 4s. per
day (equal to £4<'5,000), the harassed Com-
missioner doesn’t think that things will im-
prove. He talked of a further increase of
freights and fares to meet the old loss, and
spoke about the income-tax being trebled to
cover the new one. Nothing was said about
any resistance to this or any future demand
which the Court hasn’t sanctioned. The
railway worker has two votes in matters
of railway management—one his vote as an
ordinary citizen and shareholder who elects
the directorate, which is Parliament; the
other his vote as a member of his trades
union, which ignores or bosses Parliament,
In addition there is a very general demand
for a third vote —the right to appoint one
Commissioner where there are three, or
something of the sort. This idea has been
mooted in N. S. Wales and Queensland, and
it would mean in N. S. Wales that in the
management of the State’s biggest asset
34,700 railway electors would have one-third
of the control remaining 1,075,000
electors the other two-thirds —say, 16 votes
under this head alone for the railwayman
and one for every other pbrson on the roll.
In addition there are large and indefinite
powers of direct action, and this is im-
portant in a community where the direct-
action party is so rich, or so well organ-
ised in the way of levying on other people*
that the third-largest town of the most popu-
lous State has lived with some traces of
comfort for 16 months without working.
The power to stop working is nothing, but
the power to prevent other people working
means that £230,000,000 worth of property
has become not sb much a carrying system
as a hostage, like the child of a multi-mil-
lionaire, which is a danger because it may
be kidnapped and held to ransom. The coun-
try with no railways and the multi-million-
aire with no child would be saved a lot of
worry, though as regards the country a
system of private-railway ownership would
reduce the trouble enormously. If the work-
ing of the railways stopped under private
ownership the dividend to preference
shareholders would stop also. This
amounts in Australia to over £9,000,000
a year, and it may be £19,000.000
when a few more disastrous loan-renewals
have happened; and as the sum has to be'
paid whether ,the lines are earning anything
or not. it is a powerful weapon to drive
the community to surrender every- time. No
Government now seriously thinks of coer-
cion by legal force when agreements are torn
up and £230,000,000 worth of the nation’s
assets, or any part thereof, are .held up as
security for off-hand demands. In fact,
matters are so 'much the other way about
that the present Government of N. S. Wales
has laid down the principle of preference
to strikers.
* * * *
Between its two sets of preference share-
holders—the bondholders who refix their
own interest and the employees who refix
their own wages —the ordinary shareholders,
who number about 5,000,000, count for no-
thing in particular. When the grand idea
of developing the country with State-owned
railways' was first laid down three things
were not clearly foreseen. One was that
after 70 years the State would be further
from really owning one yard of- its lines
thqm at the beginning. Another was that
the idea of developing the country would
be abandoned and the policy would be to
develop a handful of big cities and to make
the lay-out of the lines an expression of the
hatred of the parish politician on one side
of a border against the parish politician on
the other ; also that railways could be used
more often to kill towns than to foster them.
The third- was that a handful of industrial
adventurers and carpet-baggers, few of them
real workers, and many, if not most, of them
strangers or aliens, should be allowed to
organise some 80,000 railway public ser-
vants into an army to boss both the rail-
ways and the Legislature—to make and un-
make laws, and be to some extent above the
law. In these conditions the idea of the
lines being profitable or even self-support-
ing has been quite abandoned. There are
officially enumerated 10 systems—six State
and four Federal. In 1915 two out of the
10 paid their way, wdiich wasn’t much : but
not one has done so or nearly done so since.
The aggregate loss in 1915 was £1.132-804.
In 1919 it was £2.694,879, though rates had
been raised again and again. Fpr 1920 the
position will be worse. In other words, the
railway workers receive 1 nearly £2.700.000
a year more than the net value of their
product, wherefore other workers have to
put up with that much less, or else the
amount is made good out of loans, in which
case Posterity will have to do with less.
Yet the railway men aren’t satisfied, nor
are the other people. Under private owner-
ship nine-tenths of the railways would long
ago have gone through the bankruptcy court
and written off the shareholders’ lost capital,
and in addition a number of lines ndw kept
open at Posterity’s charge to buy votes
would have been abandoned altogether. The
State could arrive at the same result by
paying off lost capital, but it has always
lacked the courage, so it keeps the corpse on
the premises. Christian burial is denied it.
THE AUSTRALIAN NOTE ISSUE.
The chief purpose of the new Common-
wealth Notes Bill is to knock out the one
conspicuously good feature of the present
system. Apart from the saving of wear
and tear of gold coin and the supplying of a
more portable medium —things which are of
no very great consequence—the advantage
of a note-issue is that it will yield large
profits. But that isn’t an advantage either
unless the profits are put to a good use. If
applied to pay needless pensions or need-
less salaries to superfluous commissioners,
ambassadors and brasshats, the profits are
like the unexpected legacy wmcli ieaUs
the young man to leave off work and devote
the rest of his life to drink and two-up. The
proposition which The Bulletin advanced
when it started the campaign for a Federal
note-issue at least 15 years before any Gov-
ernment took the matter up was that all
the profits should be invested in the purchase
of State Government securities—not new
ones to encourage fresh razzles, but old ones
bought as cheaply as possible in the open
market. By the blessed influence of com-
pound interest, the result would often be that
when a State loan fell due the Common-
wealth would be a large and perhaps even the
chief holder, and could help to prevent!
the State being fleeced too mercilessly by
private sharks in the renewal process. ’ This
idea of providing for the future was too
contrary to Australian precedent to make
much appeal; nevertheless, when the note-
issue was instituted it was arranged that
the profit should accumulate and be invested
in Government securities. That at least
meant that, to a limited extent, we gave
our lOU to ourselves instead of to some-
body else. The proposed variation is that
there won’t be anything to show —not even
our own lOU. The earnings of the Notes
Fund are to go straight into the Treasury
so that they may be available to pay new
ambassadors or to increase the baby bonus.
The only use Australian politicians have for
an opportunity is- to lose it.
* * * *
Further, the bill disregards the obligation
to retire the useless £lOO9 notes which repre-
sent a forced war loan from the banks with-
out interest. These notes are a mere waste
of good paper and ink, and they represent
inflation in a very bad form. But instead
of getting rid of them the situation is to be
camouflaged by requiring the institutions to
hold in Government paper 20 per cent, of
current-account deposits and of all fixed
deposits at less than six months’ notice, and
10 per cent, of all longer-distance deposits.
At latest the deposits of all sorts were just
under £215,000,000, and as they are divided
about equally it will be necessary to hold —
not to circulate or use, but to retain use-
lessly^—approximately £32,000,000 of paper
money, a reserve of about 15 per cent. Then
the banks will require surplus notes for cur-
rent use, and in addition a reserve of gold,
the notes being mere waste-paper for out-
side transactions even as close as Maoriland,
and the usual big stock of silver and bronze.
So the amount of idle funds will be enor-
mous. The paper-reserve will be larger than
it is now, though the present one includes
the swag of £lOOO notes which the institu-
tions are not allowed to put to any use, and
as deposits increase the ridiculously large
reserve ,of inflated flimsies will keep grow-
ing. So evidently there will be more ±lOOO
notes rather than less, all earning nothing
and. with (for the sake of silly appearances)
a Treasury gold-reserve, which will also be
earning nothing. A time may come when
the manager of the biggest bank will ask
for a single million-pound note in exchange
for a quart of the unprofitable, unusable
“truck” which figures in his reserve. Then
the only reason why he won’t burn the mil-
lion-bound note and be rid of a ghost and a
bad debt will be that he has to produce the
thing periodically as evidence lest the Gov-
ernment should seize the excuse to make
him buy another. Yet its destruction or non-
production would mean nothing. Nobody
would steal the Commonwealth’s big notes,
for they are no more service as a circulat-
ing medium than a; prigged cathedral or a
cedar of Lebanon. They could be safely left
out on the pavement at night.
• * * *
The cold, brutal truth is that the pro-
posed huge compulsory reserve is not in any
way for the protection of depositors, but is
a mere device for raising the wind. No such
tons of notes are required as security against
a sudden demand. People rush for gold at
times to make out of it jewellery and false
teeth, or even gods and images of saints,
but jewellery and false teeth are not made
from notes. They sometimes want gold to
take abroad or to sell abroad ; but notes are
mere pipe-lights abroad. They run for
gold also in panic times for fear notes may
deteriorate, but there is no sense in rush-
ing for notgs lest notes should deteriorate.’
So far from benefiting depositors, the scheme
will disadvantage them. When a bank pays
interest on £lOOO and can use only £9OO if
it is a loan for several years, or £BOO if it
is a transaction at less than six months’
notice, it must, of course, either pay less
for the deposit or charge more for lending
the £9OO or £BOO ; and that will be bad for
business —-and. incidentally, will lead to the
institution being denounced as a vulture and
a cormorant. The excuse may be offered
that the times are exceptional; but in Aus-
tralian finance dowmward steps are hardly
ever retraced, and while going to the dogs
is common enough any attempt to return
from these' animals is very rare. <
THE CHANCE OF A NATION’S
LIFETIME.
The Hughes Government’s aviation pro-
posals, laid before the House last week, have
not arrived a moment too soon. For lack
of a policy hitherto we have been called
upon to make irremediable sacrifices.
After the Armistice the British Govern-
ment offered to train a selected batch of
A.F.C. pilots in seaplane work. The Com-
monwealth authorities declined. Now, air-
fighting in liaison with warships is a highly-
specialised business: it is growing more so
daily, and it is going to be a big factor, if it is
not the factor, in the next war. Which
means that sooner or later Australia must
have men skilled in the new art. Two years
ago it could have got them for nothing. To-
day it will need to mobilise civilians, send
them to England to be trained, and pay and
maintain them during an enormously expen-
sive course, so that their expert knowledge
may be available toy the instruction of
others. The precedent has been followed in
the matter of flying over the land. Scat-
tered about Australia are several hundred
young men, pilots and mechanics, with up
to four years’ flying experience. The know-
ledge they possess represents an unthink-
able sum in blood and money. Their school
was the monstrous war-organisation of Eng-
land and France, and they worked fever-
ishly to learn if only because ignorance
meant death. They had opportunities which
will not present themselves again till an-
other world-war comes. Most of them are
back at the trifling jobs which they held
before the war. There is one supremely
important thing, nationally speaking, which
they can do supremely well ; but their Gov-
ernment has hitherto asked them, in effect,
to forget about it.
* # * *
It is axiomatic that no nation can get
complete defence on the cheap. No one but
an imbecile is likely to suggest that the Com-
monwealth might be made permanently and
entirely secure by means of an air-force.
There are reasons, however, why such an
arm would go a long way in that direction;
and there are still stronger ones why an
efficient air-force is vitally necessary, fleet
or no fleet, to the safety of certain parts of
an island continent such as this. The Asiatic
races of the North have been quick, to realise
the possibilities of the new art. It was
stated officially at the beginning of this
year that Japan had 700 trained pilots.
These men, although they lack the priceless
war-experience of our A.F.C. veterans,
• would in many cases be formidable foes to
any country. In the event of trouble, and
assuming Australia lacked an air-force, the
fact that the North Pacific Ocean was
swarming with warships would not of itself
prevent the Northern Territory from being
flown over and the great coastal cities of
the South bombarded frofn the air. The only
prophylactics against such a tragedy are
(1) fighting pilots capable of going up and
engaging the invaders, and (2) anti-aircraft
batteries and ground defences generally.
London alone during 1917-18 required a
standing ring of anti-aircraft guns and not
less than two snuadrons of ’planes. With-
out effective sea-defence the Commonwealth
must be ill-defefided If not undefended.
But it is fair to say that with
effective air-defence, and lacking any
other serious means of protection, Australia
would represent a prize that the hungriest
marauder might be chary about attempting
to lift, x
Australia can have the air-force which it
needs now, and on which its life as a free
nation may depend in a few years’ time,
without even paying the subsidy for the
encouragement of civil aviation .which the
Government proposes. The end is to be
gained by merely rescuing the business
from anarchy. At present an unauthor-
ised citizen who carried one passenger
on an unlicensed steamer between the
two narrowest points of Port Jackson
or Port Phillip would be liable to
appear in a law court as a result. Any
adventurer can with impunity ply for hire *
in any crazy apology for an air-ifiachine;
and he can endanger the lives of those below
him, as well as his own life and that of his
pq.ssenger. There are all sorts of meticulous
regulations to ensure the safety of seaports
and the vessels using them. We have no
ports at all for airships—which was why
every one of the dozen Peace Loan ’planes
was damaged, two irreparably, in tlie course
of a few hours’ flying the other day. The
putting of air-navigation on a similar basis
to sea-navigation should be a simple process
now that the States are understood to be
agreeable to the establishment of a Depart-
ment of Air Control on the same lines as the
Board of Trade. And in any event, accord-
ing to the latest High Court judgment on a
constitutional point, they have no option
in the matter. A more essential require-
ment than the payment of any regular sub-
sidy is that the Commonwealth should at
once start on the construction of a
number of key aerodromes. Once civilian
flying is established these places must
pay their way; and municipalities and
private firms will build others. But
the nation may waste irrecoverable years if it
decides to wait for Private Enterprise to
do the pioneering. Returns in kind if not
in cash will be immediate. The work done
by the pilots must obviously be over country
where the distances are great and the com-
munications poor. Every square foot of
Britain has been surveyed and mapped.
Japan and the Dutch colonies up north are
well served in this respect. Australia ranks
below South America, which is a long
behind the rest of the civilised world. The
Smith brothers and Paker and Mclntosh
had actually to grope their way over Cen-
tral Australia with the help of maps torn out
of such things as railway guides! Civilian
pilots, in the ordinary course of their busi-
ness as common carriers, would put thou-
sands of square miles of unknown Australia
on the maps, thus relieving the Federal
Government of a clamant duty. And every
one of them would be potential defenders
of the country. Just as the British
look to the sailors of the North Sea trawling
fleets to supplement_ the R.N. personnel in
war-time, so Australia could rely on its air-
reserve. It would, of course, be a condition
precedent to engaging in civilian flying that


pilots, mechanics and machines should be
liable to be called up for service on the out-
break of' war. Regarded as an ordinary
business proposition, the scheme is sound.
From the defence standpoint it offers a ser-
vice which Australia must have some time,
and should have had long ago, at a total
cost, first and last, of, say, one year’s expen-
diture on an obsolete battle-cruiser.
TROPICAL AUSTRALIA AND THE
MEDICAL CONGRESS.
It has been the fashion for years past to
evade any inconvenient argument concerning
the present and future of Northern Austra-
lia by getting up a medical dogfight on the
subject of its alleged climatic unfitness for
white races. Dreadful tropical diseases were
alleged to lie in wait for the newcomer,
or crocodiles lurked disguised for unwary
political tourists to sit upon, and women
and children were supposed to wilt and die
in great profusion. If actual unfitness was
not urged, then some bland and cautious
counsellor could always be found to sug-
gest that we wait for a few generations or
so before rushing blindly in to settle the
place with other people. The inherent curse
of the tropics, they said, would show up in
the grandchildren of the present generation.
If it did not, then Tropical Australia might
be safe, but they could not promise it. And
so the thing went on year by year, while
more and more millions of Asiatic eyes'
watched more and more hungrily the vast
neglected areas of fertile land, the huge mineral
resources, and the priceless treasures of the
tropic land and seas which need only popu-
lation to make of them one of the world’s
greatest heritages.
Into the gloomy picture has come a ray
of light and hope.' The Australasian Medi-
cal Congress which met at Brisbane in
August has stated without reservation that
Tropical Australia is entirely fit and suit-
able for successful settlement and develop-
ment by white races, provided only that the
ordinary rules of modern health-protection
are observed. The proceedings show that
this was no mere expression of opinion, but
the outcome of yeans of special investiga-
tion and of a set discussion in full Congress.
The 1911 Congress, which met in Sydney,
had bequeathed the question of the suit-
ability or otherwise 'of Tropical Australia
for permanent occupation by a healthy indi-
genous white race as the principal subject
for discussion at the Brisbane meeting which,
as was then expected, would be held in 1914.
The war intruded, and the Brisbane Con-
gress did not eventuate until 1920. The
intervening time was used to gather a mass
of additional information. A technical sub-
committee on Tropical Australia worked
for six years, carrying out collective investi-
gation amongst doctors in the North, analys-
ing military returns, investigating the results
of the Queensland school medical-inspection
system, and tapping every other available
source of medical and statistical informa-
tion likely to throw light on the subject.
The Australian Institute of Tropical Medi-
cine at Townsville summarised the results of
11 years of laboratory and field observa-
tions. The State Government Statistician
of Queensland was enlisted to make a special
study of causes of death in Tropical Queens-
land, and the chief actuary of a great life-
insurance office proved his interest by exam-
ining the results of 5000 policies issued in
the Cairns and Townsville districts during
the 10 years up to 1919. Special attention
*was given to questions relating to tropical
influences on women, one of the investiga-
tors being the lady principal of the Women’s
University College at Brisbane, herself a
trained biologist. The returns for every
hospital in Tropical Queensland were ana-
lysed for causes of death and illness over a
long series of years. During the discussion
in Congress selected speakers were put up
to represent the case from either side, and
J. B. Nash, M.L.C., and Richard Arthur,
M.L.A., were given every opportunity—of
which they availed themselves —to lay out
their entire base for the colored brother. The
outcome was a resolution which, once and
for all, clears the ground of all reasonable
argument against Tropical Australia on
medical grounds, and leaves it to be settled
as a matter of national economics alone:
The Congress is unable to find anything pointing
to the existence of inherent or insuperable obstacles
in the way of the permanent occupation of Tropical
Australia by a healthy indigenous white race. It
considers that the whole question of successful
development and settlement of Tropical Australia
by white races is fundamentally a question of applied
public health in the modern sense, such as has
been demonstrated and practised with success amongst
civil populations under far more difficult conditions
by the American authorities in the Philippines prior
to the Great War, and throughout the military
forces of every allied Power during that war. The
Congress considers that the absence of semi-civilised
colored peoples in Northern Australia simplifies the
problem very greatly... .The Congress realises that
a great national question is involved, but it is
unable to discern any obstacles which cannot be over-
come by earnest and skilful application of the prin-
ciples of statecraft.
It is proverbial amongst British peoples
that useful action as a result of Congresses,
Royal Commissions and similar presumedly
expert and disinterested bodies is almost
unknown, but this grave and earnest state-
ment of a great national truth should not
be allowed to. pass unheard or unanswered
by those into whose hands Australia has
entrusted the powers and resources for deal-
ing with such matters. The effect of the
pronouncement is to sweep away all the old
excuses for delay and equivocation, and to
display the future of Tropical Australia as
a pure question of economics and statecraft.
To attempt to put it off by saying that the
white woman cannot work in a hot kitchen
in the tropics is now merely an invitation
to be asked the inconvenient and pointed
question w’hy nothing has been done in the
way of finding out how the kitchen can be
made less hot, and the woman’s work less
hard. Even the bitterest opponents of a
White Australia have nothing more to urge
against it than a series of vague generali-
ties based on defects of housing, living, habit,
diet or communal arrangements, none of
which have ever been the subject of any
Organised attempt towards improvement.
The Congress has not rested content, how-
ever, with a statement of its conclusions,
but has offered also a series of constructive
recommendations ranging from the creation
o” a Federal Ministry of Health to the for-
mulation of a land-settlement system cal-
culated to encourage settlement by white
races. It urged, moreover, that prejudice
and ignorance with regard to life and living
conditions in Tropical . Australia should be
systematically combated, and that deliberate
steps should be taken to organise a system
of teaching the art —for it is an art —of
living comfortably in the tropics.
Within a week’s steaming-time of the
shores of Tropical Australia there is stir-
i-ing and stretching a menace compared with
which the German squadrons of 1914 were
a mere circumstance. The narrow strip of
coast from Rockhampton to Cairns, which
represents to most southerners the whole of
Tropical Australia, is in reality but the peel
on the orange. Vast fertile areas lie behind
it, far above the steamy lowlands of the
coast, well-watered, dowered with a genial
climate, unused and unappreciated. Mineral
deposits of great extent are there, awaiting
only population and the consequent stabil-
isation of labor conditions to give their
riches out. Sources of hydro-electric power
have been located in a score of places., and
pre-empted by longsighted people with a
view to future unearned increment —which
they should not be permitted to grasp, by
the way. A few millions of people living
thousands of miles away cannot expect to
possess these treasure-troves in peace and
perpetuity. They must be shared with the
many millions from outside, whose help can
alone ensure their development and use for
the nation and the world. If Australia will
not wake up and make a real effort to
develop her tropics, she will lose them, and
with them her nationality. The late Hun
had no delusions on this subject—Tropical
Australia was one of the principal prizes
at which he aimed in his Pacific schemes.
The problem cannot be solved by an out-
burst of hot air or by labelling a horse-
doctor with the title of Excellency, nor yet
by using Tropical Australia as a dumping-
ground for political inconveniences. That
has been tried in the Northern Territory,
and has failed enormously. Tropical Aus-
tralia means work, hard work and real work,
and it is a work of self-preservation for
which but little time is left. The peril is
great, but if no more is attempted at the
outset than to settle, say, an additional
ten thousand families on the Atherton
tableland it may yet save Australia from
the menace that hovers over her. These
should be Australian families for choice, or
failing sufficient of these, Anglo-Saxon stock.
Darwin affords a conclusive demonstra-
tion of the undesirability of importing
the more savage European tribes to a white
man’s country. If it is considered that more
can be done, there is room for anything up
to 10.000.u00 before the Australian Tropics
can be considered as reasonably occupied in
its more fertile areas. But the vital point
is that something will have to be done, done
on sound lines, and done quickly. It is a
white man’s country, and the only question
now is that of filling sufficient of it with
the right kind of white man to make it im-
possible for men of any other tint to take
it from us.
BRINGJAL.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Bossism Comes to Australia.
The Australian people must soon decide,
apparently, whether they mean to have their
justice according to the British or the Ameri-
can plan; whether it is to be political or
completely divorced from politics. The
Judges of the State Courts of the U.S. are
either selected by the people or appointed
by their State Governors for,a term of years.
They know exactly where they stand, and
so do the litigants who appear before them.
Our Judges are given their positions for
life or “for so long as they conduct them-
selves properly.” The condition has no
reference to the quality of their decisions,
but is applied solely to their personal be-
havior. A Judge who went bankrupt or
who was found to have taken bribes might
be removed, but even then by nothing less
than a two-thirds majority of both Houses
of Parliament. The aim—that of lifting the
judiciary above the mire of party politics—
has been approved hitherto, outside as well
as inside the British Empire. Yet last week,
to culminate a series of squabbles between
Bench and Government, both in the Federal
and State spheres, Premier Storey, of N. S.
Wales, threatened Judge Rolin, chairman
of the Necessary Commodities Control Com-
mission, with removal, his offence being that
he fixed the price of butter at a higher figure
than the Premier deemed justifiable. The
Judge can thus either make up his mind to
become the creature of the Storey party, or
sacrifice his chairmanship and make way for
someone more pliant. The second alterna-
tive is likely to be the more satisfactory to
himself and to the community. By the
shandygaff arrangement implied in Premier
Storey’s threat, a Judge, while holding in
his legitimate jurisdiction the status and
privileges of a member of the U.S. Supreme
Court, descends as a Commissioner to the
political cockpit. If the members of our
Industrial Courts are to depend for their
positions on the favor of whatever party
happens to be in power, well and good. All
that remains is to discover the sort of man
who will serve on such terms —a task which
should be as easy as that of finding pick-
pockets on a racecourse. Those whom they
supplant can then return to their proper
sphere, which has been suffering severely
from congestion for some time now—largely
due, of course, to the Governmental practice
of turning Supreme- and District-Court
Judges into Commissioners. Meantime, in
order to preserve public respect for the
courts, the Bench itself might urge upon
those of its members who take extra-judicial
jobs that they discourage the application to
themselves of the term “Judge” or “Jus-
tice” while they are so employed. If they
must come down from the bench into the
hurly-burly, let them at least be understood
to be acting, not as Judges, but merely as
educated citizens.
The Twilight of Erin.
The most unsatisfactory rumor that last
week produced was a breath by cable to the
effect that Australia’s old friend Dr. Man-
NiX had so far modified his views that he
was prepared to support, in place of Irish
independence under a republic, “the fullest
self-government within the Empire.” That
would naturally be the Australian-Maoriland-
Canadian form, and the scheme doesn’t fit.
If the most fully self-governed place is
friendly and is willing to fight on the Empire’s
side in naval and military wars, then it really
is part of the Empire. If it isn’t thus
friendly and willing, then it is just a hostile
independent State with a dangerous right of
access to the inside of the citadel. The
Empire gains nothing by granting this right
of access except the pleasure of painting the
dependency its own tint on the maps, and
that is nothing. The Home-Ruled depend-
ency doesn’t contribute to the Empire’s
revenue. It isn’t bound to carry any of the
Empire’s debts. It has a separate army
and navy with which it msiy help at a crisis,
or it may not help, or it may turn hostile
in the thick of the embarrassment. It is
no more pledged to give trade privileges to
the Ma Country than the merest stranger.
So if it is really unfriendly at heart and
merely making a virtue of necessity, the
Home-Ruled dependency is as dangerous and
unprofitable as a stranger. At the same
time the compromise in Ireland’s case would
still allow Mannix to be a brother and a
fellow-citizen in Australia. It would leave
this country as helpless as ever to keep
Irish affairs out of its politics. It would
prevent us breaking the news to the mass of
politicians who get into our Parliaments and
municipal councils on the Irish ticket, and
make a dreadful mess of our finances, that
they are aliens, subjects of a foreign repub-
lic, and that here they have neither votes
nor seats nor standing nor right of habita-
tion, nor any show of either. And at the
same time we would be expected to fight for
Ireland as much as for ourselves when the
guns began to go off. If Australia ever
goes out of its way to express an opinion on
Irish affairs it should declare for the republic,
the whole republic and nothing but the repub-
lic. Hibernian autonomy isn’t of the least
use to this country. A half-divorce —the
one that stops between the decree nisi and
the decree absolute —leaves the parties neither
married nor unmarried; neither bachelor,
spinster, widower, widow, wedded couple nor
separated half-couples; neither bride, bride-
groom nor corpse. It is a twilight state, a
half-measure. Liberated Ireland might one
day rejoin the Empire voluntarily (if the
Empire would take it in) and be content.
Half-liberated or Home-Ruled Ireland, parti-
ally joined to the Empire by force, is no
more likely to be content than it is now.
Of course there is the theoretical danger, but
on that point there are precedents. The
United States lately had an island bigger and
far more valuable than Ireland, and also
separated by a narrow strait as Ireland is.
It set Cuba up as a republic with a proviso
that met the case; in other words, it told the
world : “This place is free so long as nobody
annexes it and so long as it doesn’t try to
annex itself to any State that I (Uncle
Sam) object to. If either of these things
happens the goldarned little republic belongs
to ME.”
♦
The Division tuat Went West.
Foul years of war cost Australia 59.000
lives. One year of influenza cost it 12,000
lives. More Australians died of influenza
and pneumonia between the autumn of 1918
and the autumn of 1919 than were killed in
battle during the Gallipoli campaign or
throughout the year of victory. Actually,
the number of deaths from influenza and
pneumonia in 1919 was 14,208, “pneumonic”
influenza being responsible for 10,263. But
before (and after) the pneumonic classi-
fication became fashionable, many deaths
caused by the prevailing infection were attri-
buted to influenza or pneumonia, as the case
might be. This is indicated by the fact that
the influenza mortality in 1918 was 547
more than the average for the five pre-epi-
demic years, and in 1919 it was 988 more
than the average; the pneumonia increase
was 81 in 1918 and 596 in 1919. Adding
these variations from the normal to the num-
ber of cases in which pneumonic influenza
was definitely diagnosed gives a total of
12,475, so it is no exaggeration to say that
the epidemic deprived Australia of 12,000
citizens. And then broncho-pneumonia is
excluded from the calculation. It is a melan-
choly record, and the 188 doctors who fore-
gathered at Brisbane for their Australasian
Medical Conference didn’t illuminate things
to any extent. Some of them contributed
valuable papers on less important subjects,
but in regard to influenza the Conference was
a dud. Nobody seems to have mentioned
that it was the most destructive outbreak of
disease in the history of Australia. Nobody
appears to have suggested that a general
discussion might be helpful. Dr. J. L.
Cumpston, Federal Director of Quarantine,
was the one speaker who gave the matter
much attention, and that only in the course
of a lecture on “Preventive Medicine.” Some
of his remarks are quotable:—
Our Australian epidemic of influenza afforded
much food for reflection and speculation. The appli-
cation of maritime quarantine prevented the entry
of the great pandemic wave of the most virulent
form of this disease, by the crude method of abso-
lute blockade, but after the less fatal form had mani-
fested itself within Australia towards the middle of
1918, whether by evolution or invasion, it could
hardly be claimed that any of the measures applied
later kept the disease within control. There were
many puzzling phases of the behavior of the disease
in Australia. Why, for example, was the crest of
the epidemic wave in the different States at such
widely different periods? What was the reason that
Victoria, which was the first affected, had a death
rate for the whole year of 225 per 100,000, while
N. S. Wales, which was not severely attacked
till more than two months later, had a rate for the
year of 305 per 100,000 ? What explanation was
there for the curious fact that the behavior of influ-
enza in South Australia was so different from that
in Victoria, and that the course of both the 1891
and 1919 epidemics in Queensland was fundamentally
different from that in New South Wales? Why did
the disease occur in waves of varying virulence?
Why did it die out suddenly and abruptly long before
it had attacked even the majority of the popula-
tion ? At present no answer could be given to those
questions, because no serious attempt had been made
to analyse the data. There had been abundance of
deliberate administrative control without any know-
ledge of essential data.
All very interesting, but sadly inconclusive.
And there are phases of the epidemic, un-
quoted by Dr. Cumpston, quite as perplex-
ing as the instances he gives. For example.
N. S. Wales, with less than two-fifths of
the population, supplied more than half of
the “pneumonic” mortality. Yet, in respect of
the preventive measures employed, N. S.
Wales was easily the most drastic of all the
States; for a period 50 per cent, of the N. S.
Wales people were commanded to wear masks
and forbidden to enter pubs, theatres or
schools. Of the 10,263 persons who went
under to pneumonic influenza 6181 were
males and 4082 females. Yet the excess
of males over females is only one in 100
of total population, and woman is currently
supposed to be the weaker vessel. Influenza
belongs to the group of diseases that are
both preventable and curable. Yet in the
course of 12 months this preventable and
curable malady wiped out 12,000 persons,
the equivalent of the population of Kal-
goorlie, and the one State which completely
surrendered itself to medical officialism had
far and away the worst death-rate. And
now the public is told by the Director of
Quarantine that much of what was done by
medical authority during the panic was done
in ignorance— i.e., “without any knowledge
of essential data.” Further, although 12
months have elapsed since the epidemic ran
its course, nothing definite is known about it
(except that 12*000 Australians perished)
'because “no serious attempt has been made
to examine the data.” It is a serious indict-
ment of the Australian medical profession,
or, rather, of the system under which the
Australian medical profession works, and it
raises the question whether such a system
is worth preserving. Rightly taken, no more
powerful argument for the nationalisation
of medicine was ever published.
Are We Still Muzzled?
“Give me liberty to know, to utter, and to argue
freely according to conscience, above all other liber-
ties.” — Milton's Arcopagitica.
In a recent issue of the Toowoomba (Q.)
Chronicle a concert advt. appeared at the
bottom of which were the words “Long live
the Irish Republic!” Upon the outrage
being Jbrought within the gaze of W. M.
Hughes, he talked in his finest Fukioso
manner of disloyalty openly and blatantly
asserting itself, and concluded:
Such a state of things cannot be allowed, and I
hope that my mere statement to that effect will be
sufficient. If it is not, the Ministry will not hesitate
to take whatever steps are necessary to prevent a
recurrence of this.
It is, firstly, a piece of impudent provin-
cialism to suggest that the advocacy of an
Irish Republic necessarily represents dis-
loyalty. It may be the direct opposite.
Chatham, in the 18th century, and Camp-
bell-Bannerman, Morley and others in the
19th, had the same cheap gibe directed at
them by the time-servers of their day. Yet
if George 111. had adopted the policy of the
Great Commoner, the United States might
still be part of the British Empire; and but
for the Campbell-Bannerman Govern-
ment’s conciliatory attitude towards the
defeated Boers, men like Smuts would not
have fought for Britain during the late war.
“If the Irish really want to cut adrift,”
Jerome K. Jerome wrote the other day,
“let them go with a God-speed and a shake
of the hand.” And hundreds of other repu-
table Englishmen and English papers are
approaching this problem in the same sobeT
and tolerant spirit. Further, reputable Brit-
ishers are writing and talking straight-out
Sinn Feinism ; and so long as. they confine
themselves to the academic side of the case,
and refrain from inciting to acts of violence
or intimidation, they are acting well within
their legal rights. When W. M. Hughes
hopes, Czar-like, that his “mere statement
will be sufficient” to check discussion on the
Irish republican issue here, and threatens,
if it isn’t sufficient, that he will “take steps,"
he means presumably that he will use the
War Precautions Act to 'enforce his will. In
the interests of freedom generally, and of
the liberty of the press in particular, it is
to be trusted that he will be sufficiently ill-
advised to try. He has no legitimate powers
left under the War Precautions Act, and he
knows it. The High Court has repeatedly
laid down that the validity of any action
taken under it rests on the assumption that
this particular part of the Empire is in
danger at the hands of Germany and Ger-
many’s allies. Hughes talks at large be-
cause he knows that the High Court does not
speak till it is asked a question. But the
first newspaper editor or private individual
who is assailed by this would-be dictator for
exercising one of the most valued and hard-
won rights which a British community pos-
sesses —thqt of stating its views on a poli-
tical issue—will, no doubt, put the necessary
question to the institution on which the
citizens rely for the defence of their liber-
ties. The outcome should have a salutary
effect on the peace and good government of
Australia.
+
Australia and Yorkshire.
The manufacturing people in Yorkshire and
other parts of the Cold Country are engineer-
ing a sort of baby crisis in the Australian
wool trade. In the first place they want
this country to send greasy wool instead of
scoured, which not only would be bad for
the scouring industry that we have now, but
would prevent its extension. As Australia
last year exported 4,580,000 centals ( 1001 b.)
of wool in the grease and only 1,063,000
centals washed, there was a feeling that we
were doing pretty well in the way of oblig-
ing John Bull in this matter, but it seems
he wants more. What he says is that wool
is more valuable if scoured on the spot
immediately before using. What he doesn’t
say is that he would rather have the scouring
job and the valuable by-products himself than
let us have them, and that he hates to see
us wash our own product, and still more to
see us put it through the preliminary process
of making into “tops,” for if we once begin
there is no knowing what the end may be.
Not only may we make our own finished
goods but we may make goods for export and
cut into his job, just as the growing tendency
of the Yankee to make cotton goods in his
own mills is cutting into another job. This
aspect of the case is emphasised by the fact
that the woollen-industry papers of England
are filled with shouts of ridicule and alarm
about the proposal to found big new woollen
mills all over this country, and they say
that we would be much wiser to stick to
the old ways and buy cloth from Bull at
17s. 6d. per yard—cloth made out of our
own sheep’s covering. The present position


ANOTHER Testimonial. Messrs. TAUBMANS, LTD., of 252 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
write August 25, ’2o:
In response to your enquiry re “FEDERAL,” truck, we have pleasure in advising that
up to the present same has given unqualified satisfaction, and we have no reason to
doubt but that it will continue so to do for a considerable period.
Since the truck was purchased in February last, it has not been off the road for a
day through any mechanical defect.
We find the “FEDERAL,” as well as being speedy, is economical to run. It possesses
ample reserve power for carrying of heavier loads than its rated capacity.
We are,
Yours faithfully,
for TAUBMANS, LTD,,
H. G. TAUBMAN, Director.
FEDERAL
Sole Agent for
N.S.W.:
fdg
Sizes 1,
1X.2.3
5 Tons.
H. W. CROUCH, 26-28 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
Pure wool of the finest quality
is spun and woven by British
workpeople in Britain to make
these Jason Stockings and
Socks with the Finish that
affords sheer comfort all
through wear 1
Sheer Comfort
—the comfort of socks knitted to fit and finish-
ed to an exclusive downy softnesses yours with
Jason. And neither their fit nor the Jason
Finish is impaired by frequent washings.
h
Quality
Stockings and Socks
For Men, Women and Children.
Good Drapers and Stores everywhere can
supply you. See the Jason Tab.
Manufactured by :
W. TYLER SONS & CO.,
King Street, Leicester. Eiurlend.
TheJanon
Tab
is that the Commonwealth makes about 12i
per cent, of its own woollens, and if it made
sufficient even for its present population it
could easily support 2(5,000 more workers
and their families. As, say, 100,000 new
people and those whom they employ in various
ways (perhaps 200,000 or 300,000) would
want a lot of things, it could obviously
find work for more than 26,000. Then
Australia wouldn’t require to worry Bull
with scoured wool, and if it proceeded to
manufacture for export it wouldn’t need to
worry him with nearly so much of the greasy
sort either. The saving in sea and land
haulage, foreign profits, commissions, etc.,
would thereby be enormous; and with these
outgoings eliminated we should be able to
produce woollens for our own wear at about
half the price the importer often charges.
There would then certainly be much less
importer; but there would be a few hundred
thousand new taxpayers and new customers
for the farmer, and they would come in very
handy. The matter looks like one that could
be fixed up to the mutual satisfaction of
both parties—or at least So that our mutual
satisfaction would be enough for both even
if the other fellow had none.
«.
Australia’s First Baby.
On the cutting of another tooth:—
The necessity for a more democratic management
of Papua has at last entered the sphere of thought in
Melbourne political circles. For years past the good
Australian settlers in the colony have battled on
without the faintest word in the government of
their adopted country. The Royal Commission of
190 G recommended the disfranchisement of all resi-
dents, white, brown or black ; but to soften the injus-
tice somewhat it provided for “representation” in
the local Legislative Council by members nominated
by the Lieutenant-Governor. Three members—non-
official members —were nominated, and for 14 years
they have been as “representative” of the sturdy
white Australians who are giving their lives to
develop the land as a member of the late lamented
Nicholas Romanoff's Duma was of the Russian
peasants. Now there is promise that the obsolete
system will be scrapped for a really democratic
form, of representation. A franchise has been offered
white Papua—Brown Brother remains disfranchised
because he cannot be trusted to use a vote—five
members of the Legislative Council to be elected
by the population. The Territory is to be divided
into four electorates—Central Division, two members;
Eastern Division, one member; South-eastern Divi-
sion, one member; Rest of Papua, one member.
The Central Division has thus far had most develop-
ment, Moresby being within it, along with the
Laloki copper-field and numerous rubber, cocoanut
and hemp plantations. Hence its two members. The
Eastern Division contains the town of Samarai—an
island of waving cocoa-palms set in an emerald sea
—the principal distributing port of Eastern Papua
and the centre of an important planting and trading
industry. The South-eastern Division contains the
Murua and Misima goldfields, and is also possessed
of large plantations, while a considerable trade in
pearls, trochus-shell and bOche-de-mer is pursued
among the myriad islands in the Louisiades. The
fifth member will be elected by the residents of the
Northern Division (planters and miners), North-
eastern Division (planters, miners, missionaries),
Gulf Division (planters, traders, oilfield employees,
missionaries and a few miners), Delta Division
(planters, traders, recruiters and missionaries) and the
Western Division (same population as Delta). Daru,
the port of entry for the great Gulf of Papua, is
in the Western Division. At_ present it is a tiny
hamlet, but when this part of the colony receives
more attention it will be an outlet for the timber,
sago, gum, alcohol, copra, rattan, rubber, etc., of
the vast jungles of the Fly, Bamu and Turama,
mighty rivers that flow from the roof of Papua
through the vast plain country.
Papua is a rich land, and has all the gifts that
a benevolent Creator could shower upon it —jungle
lands that will produce nearly every tropical pro-
duct that Australia now imports from Java, Cuba,
Burma and other alien countries; mighty forests
with excellent timbers, gums and canes; seas that
will yield pearls, shell and other valuable commodi-
ties ; unexplored mining fields in which gold, copper,
osmiridium, silver, lead and petroleum are known to
occur. Innumerable rivers and waterfalls will some
day provide an almost inexhaustible supply of cheap
electrical power, which is the key that will unlock
Papua’s vast central hinterland, a temperate zone
not unlike the Atherton tableland of Queensland.
From five to ten thousand feet high, this country
should be admirable for farming, dairying, pig-rais-
ing and other southern industries. Malaria is non-
existent in these highlands, so the weak plea that
“the white man cannot live in the tropics” . falls
before indisputable facts.
What influence upon the development of these
natural riches the new form of government will have
it is too soon yet to say; but, at any rate, we shall
have a more contented people and qne more resolute
to show good results. But reform in local govern-
ment will not exhaust the requirements. The colony
must also have at least a voice in the National Par-
liament ; and that this right should be so long
withheld can only be the result of Australia’s igno-
rance of the relation in which it stands towards
Papua—that of a dictator, denying it any voice in
the Parliament which makes its larger laws and
administers them. What would Sydney say if it
were denied a voice or vote in the National Parlia-
ment? Yet as between the two, if but one is to be
represented, which should it be—the great city whose
requirements are fairly well known to other city
representatives, or the great territory, remote and
little known, bristling with possibilities for great
national strength and great national danger.
:
A Law for the Encouragement of
Perjury.
lisr refusing a restitution order in divorce a
few days ago, Justice Gordon, of N. S.
Wales, said :—•
If people who are tired of marriage are to be
allowed to act together to bring a restitution suit
to get rid of the marriage, it would be a disgrace.
But in practice they are allowed to do just
that. Two people who have grown distaste-
ful to one another may hang on together
in deference to the opinion of their friends,
or for any other irrelevant reason ; but the
fact remains that the true purpose of their
marriage, from the standpoint of the State,
has been frustrated. It will produce no
more children, and those there are will have
doubtful attention. If only one of the pair
is determined on a separation the law in
certain circumstances will grant a divorce
carrying no great social stigma. Most of the
GOO suits listed for the coming N. S. Wales
session are either nominally or in fact in
this category. But wherever neither party
honestly desires to rejoin the other —and this
is notoriously so in about 95 per cent, of
cases—the Court is deceived and perjury is
committed. It may be deplorable that citi-
zens should so trifle with the majesty of
the law, but is it not a fact that the system
asks for it? The truth of the matter is
that the divorce jurisdiction stUJ[ retains a
“GREETINGS, FRIEND—GREETINGS.”
powerful flavor of ecclesiasticism. It is
there to treat marriages ou the basis of so
many social and civil contracts. But it
can’t quite negotiate the obstacle. It still
toys with the old clerical view about those
whom God has joined together, applying the
rule alike to those who have been joined in
churches and in registrars’ offices. Instead
of facilitating the termination of a contract
which has grown hateful to the parties, and
which is to that extent a menace to the com-
munity, it transforms the affair into a sort
of game containing an elaborately idiotic set
of rules. And in accordance with the ancient
principle that absurd or universally distaste-
ful laws are never obeyed, the public pro-
ceeds to get round such rules. If only to
prevent perjury and the public stultification
of the courts our divorce laws ought to b<
readjusted.
»
A New Way to Make Old Debts.
“11. IIoksecollar” on house-agency finance:
Out of sheer love of the grotesque —the sentiment
which makes people buy gargoyles and crooked
dwarfs —many folk will rather admire a lottery
game which has been put forward by John Thomas
Lang, the gentleman who guides with a hand
trained in suburban house-agency the gigantic finan-
cial complications of N. S. Wales. The proposition,
1 understand, is for a gamble, half-yearly or quar-
terly, or as often as possible and as big as possible,
in which the Letterslide Government will first
annex a moderate commission as promoter, and then
borrow all the rest of the money put up, paying
the prize-winners in ten-year bonds carrying 6 per
cent, interest. It is dead-certain that the Australian
will gamble, and so, for that matter, will everybody
else. Even the lone, frozen Eskimo is unreliably
said to toss up for whales. A lottery with no race-
horse in it is a thousand times preferable to one
containing that superfluous and useless and fraudu-
lent and often ugly and fiddle-headed blot of meat.
For one thing the blackmailing owner who threatens
to withdraw his gallant foal unless he gets a “cut”
at the prize, and who generally gets it, whereas his
legitimate reward would be two black eyes, a bashed
nose, a collection of tom clothes and three months
in gaol if gaol wasn’t so beastly luxurious —this
blatant and unproductive rilffian and unrepentant
dog-thief will be out of the game. Then, apart from
him, anything is good that diverts the unavoidable
gambling instinct away from horses and touts, and
ponies and welchers, and geldings who are alleged
to be running to improve the breed of horses, and
fat bookmakers who couldn’t run to save their
lives, and from the habit of leaving off productive
work for a whole day at a time to watch a waste
beast with an unproductive waster on its back
running in a circle on a piece of waste ground.
Anything is beneficent that makes the racing gang
shorter of money and the suburban betting shop,
which ought to have sulphuretted hydrogen and
asafoetida poured over it, less profitable and less
numerous. And it is reckoned that lOU prizes,
not being in the same category with cash prizes, will
exempt from certain Federal taxes, so that the inves-
tor will get more, though, on the other hand, the
State will have to pay more.
But with all advantages the scheme has its curi-
ous' features. It will be a source of income for
10 years, unless, of course, a revised Constitution
should earlier make lotteries a Federal monopoly
and the Commonwealth should take over the new
revenues, leaving the State to pay off the old debts
and the interest thereon. Should the promoter-
Government annex 2 J per cent, (that very moderate
figure is mentioned, and on these terms subscriptions
should simply roll in), then a £2,000;000 lottery
will give it £50,000 of its own, which won’t be
much to go on a festival with, and it will have the
use of £1,950,000 at 6 per cent., for which it will
pay in 10 and interest —just
£3,120,000. After 10 years, as the bonds given
for prizes will be steadily falling due, the proceeds
of new sweeps will go in payment of old liabilities
and the joy will depart; but as the present Gov-
ernment will also depart before then, somebody else
will have the big, stale infant to carry. Provided
the Commonwealth doesn’t seize the business before
the first 10 years expire, though its control of the
mails may be a great inducement to butt in, and
assuming that the business averaged £3,000,000 a
year, the position in 1931 (on a 6 per cent, interest
and 21 per cent, commission basis) will be some-
thing like this. The State will be accustomed to a
steady income of £75,000 a year. It will be accus-
tomed to a steady loan inc6me of £2,925,000 a
year, and will feel very homeless and motherless
when it is lost through the repayments starting.
It will owe £29,250,000 principal and £1,755,000
a year interest, in addition to principal and interest
of ordinary loans. And if the business and the
influx of £3,000,000 a year are cut off it will be
a question of renewing a huge loan with the old
lender gone out of the market and not available
to renew.
The other States will, of course, be driven to
start lotteries of their own to prevent all their
money going to the Ma State, and Ma keeping 2 J
per cent, of it and giving nothing but her lOU
for the other 97-J per cent. The fear that Ma may
burst with all that money in her reticule will be
too terrible. When there are six lotteries the temp-
tation for the Commonwealth to make them all
one is likely to prove irresistible. And if that
happens 10 years hence when the liabilities are
big and the habit is confirmed, Ma will burst —she
and her reticule. The suburban rent-collector who
Chancellors the Exchequer at Sydney will have a
short and merry life. People who come after him
won’t.
I will take 10 in each of our new Glad-
stone's lotteries to express my loathing of horse.
But I will sell my prize bonds early, if there are
any. Maybe, however, they will be “not negotiable.”
♦
John Bull and Queensland.
Even those who admire him least must ad-
mit that Queensland Premier Theodohe puts
a brave face on things. London turned down
his personal application for a loan of
£9,000,000 for these reasons among others: —
(1) That his Government had arbitrarily altered
the terms of its agreement with the Brisbane Tram-
way Co. and J. Bull had thereby lost money.
(2) That in doing this it had unwisely scoffed at
the idea of being bound by a contract 30 years old,
and that fact, combined with other things, made
people wonder if it would be bound by a loan agree-
ment either.
(3) That the scheme for compelling “capitalists”
to find or invent employment for men at wages
fixed by the State might not work and might make
a wreck of the public credit.
(4) That Queensland had practically no security
to offer in the way of revenue from public works,
for its railways, which before Theodore’s time were
the best-paying in the Commonwealth, now hardly
pay at all.
(5) That Queensland had little visible security to
offer in the shape of increased taxation, its tax
burden per inhabitant being already nearly four
times that of other States.
(0) That the refusal of the people to subscribe to
their own loans, as other States do so largely,
showed lack of faith in their own securities.
(7) That the amount asked (about £l3 per in-
habitant in one lump) was unprecedented, especially
for a State whose debt was already £l6 per head
above the Australian average and its sinking fund
only a quarter of the average.
(8) That in any ease Bull hadn’t the money and
had turned down far more promising business.
These explanations might have daunted an
ordinary man ; but Theodore isn’t ordinary.
Being interviewed on his return he is re-
ported to have said that theVQueensland
elections are to be hurried, on, that a victory
for his party is certain (it was horribly licked
at the Federal election), and that when once
the London moneylender hears that it is in
the saddle again for three years he will feel
that the prosperity and solvency of the State
are assured, and loan money will rain on the
land even as fire and brimstone rained on
Sodom. There seems, however, to be another
possibility—that if Theodore gets back J.
Bull may lose any faith he has left, and
may refuse even to renew the two loans
-(£2,400,000 and £13,000,000) shortly falling
due unless he is allowed to put in a receiver
at Brisbane to collect the taxes, as has been
done with Turkey, Egypt and other spend-
thrifts. That has never happened to an
Australian State yet; but the loan business
is young, and everything must have a be-
ginning.
Premier Lee can crayfish out of his difficul-
ties better' than any other leader the Tas-
manian Parliament has known. There was,
for instance, his attitude of righteous indig-
nation in connection with the school-
teachers’ threatened strike, which he pre-
sently averted by making large conces-
sions ; and that was followed by an
even more rapid nose-dive when the pay-
ment of Dr. Batten’s law expenses was
made the subject of a no-confidence motion.
He managed to maintain his opposition to
State steamships for a couple of years,
thereby earning the gratitude of the private
shipping cos. But directly the harassed pro-
ducers evinced a determination to call his bluff,
down he came with an elaborate State ship-
ping proposal which looked like an early
fleet of several up-to-date freight and pas-
senger steamers, but which, so far, amounts
to one belated cargo hooker of small tonnage.
His opposition to the State purchase of the
Hydro-Electric enterprise was decided and
long-continued; but he now expatiates on its
excellencies as “the State’s most valuable
asset” with all the transparent pride of a
loving and faithful father of the scheme.
His latest conversion to the creed of his
political enemies is the granting of Leg.
Council votes to returned soldiers. In 1916
he denounced the suggestion that men who
had fought for the country ought to be good
enough to exercise full citizen rights as
“mere sentiment,” and declared that he
would “never be led away by any such
considerations.” A while later the Assem-
bly carried a soldier-franchise resolution
against him and instructed him to bring in
the necessary bill. He did not hurry. Later
he obeyed, but so successfully dissembled his
enthusiasm for the measure that the Upper
House considered itself Ministerially invited
to kill the Bill. Then the Labor papers
were joined by the Diggers’ journals, and the
row kicked up by Opposition press and plat-
form grew into an ominous rumble. Lee
heard and understood. With nothing more
than a line in the Governor’s Speech by
way of preliminary, the Government quietly
pushed the Soldiers’ Franchise Bill through
directly the House met. The measure was
swallowed by the House of Landlords with-
out a word of protest, and, if the Governor
has by this time put his formal signature to
it, is now law.


Empire Defence and the Safety of Australia.
Mr. Amery, Under-Secretary for the
Colonies, in giving an outline of the naval
defence proposals for the Empire, stated that
it had teen decided to adopt “a new system,
consisting of a defensive chain, of which
each link will he primarily equipped to sus-
tain its own defence.”
Naval Defence is, to Australia, of grave importance, and calls
for preparedness with ships of war, guns and munitions.
Australia cannot risk her safety by dependence upon others
to supply her needs in these directions. The facilities for
their manufacture in case of necessity must be established
here. This makes essential the development, on a sound
basis, of the
Australian Iron
and Steel Industry
apart altogether from the economic aspect of (he question.
[2
POLITICAL
POINTS
Hughes’s purchase of Queensland timber
properties without consulting Parliament
caused almost a riot in the Reps, last week.
Feeling ran so high that the Coekies unani-
mously combined with the Opposition in a
motion to take the business out of the hands
of the Government, and only by the vote of
Higgs was the little autocrat saved. During
the proceedings the Billy boiled over. He
charged McWilliams with coveting plain
BACKING THE UNKNOWN.
AUSTRALIA: “What better could, you have
than this?"
MILLITANT LABOR: “ Wot they've got in
Russia.”
AUS.: “What have they got in Russia?”
MILITANT LABOR: “ Dunno; but it’s a lot
better ’n that.”
William’s billet; he wrangled with young
Stewart in a choice exchange of insults, and
incidentally bashed all precedent by
threatening to withdraw the Industrial
Peace Bill, whose passage had been regarded
as urgent. The bitterness this behavior cre-
ated was not wholly allayed by his subse-
quent apology, and talk in the lobbies after-
wards suggested that even Nationalists are
getting tired of their champion. The
remarks last Friday of Robert Best, com-
bined with the frequent adverse votes of
men like Maxwell, Fowler and Francis,
ought to advise Hughes that the ignoring of
Parliament by the Executive is becoming a
dangerous business.
If there is a surprise in store over the
appointment of N.S.W. Agent-General it
will come through the appointment of (53-
year-old Joe Carruthers.
From the Federal Gallery:—
The Federal Labor party has passed deputy-leader
Matthew Charlton by, and installed Ryan as assistant-
leader. Able as he undoubtedly is, Ryan has the
reputation of a reckless opportunist, and the idea
of his getting control —-as he is expected to do
when Tudor retires —makes old Laborites shake
their heads. Many of the party’s friends blame him
for the party’s failure at the last elections. He
certainly is just the kind of genius to lead hi 3
side to another Sedan. Though he believes himself
to be a great general, he lacks, like Hughes, the
valuable quality of discretion. He is, further, a
persistent trouble in the House, ready to assert
himself with his big voice if there is a possibility
of a spectacular coup. What is more unpleasant
is his constant association with political novices of
the Lazzarini and Cunningham type. Everybody
knows that this kindergarten, with the help of a
couple of votes that ought to have known better,
retired the deserving Charlton. The offence seems
the worse because Ryan’s adorers evidently waited
until the opposition in caucus was weakened by
sickness before electing their man. There were
two or three old hands away last week, and know-
ing their politics one can guess which way they
would have voted.
Rumor is trying to settle the future of
Hughes’s political friends. If William him-
self snaps Fisher’s perch in London, it is
reckoned that Joe Cook will make an effort
to represent this country at Washington. It
is understood that Littleton Groom is also
ready to be disposed of suddenly. An arbi-
trator carrying £2OOO a year under the new
Public Service Arbitration Bill will have to
be selected, and Littleton is mentioned as
a likely starter. Of course, he would accept
with just sufficient show of reluctance to
avoid the appearance of vulgar baste, but
considering the uncertainty of political life
with an angry ex-Treasurer on the horizon,
there wouldn’t be much doubt about his
answer if the billet were offered.
In five years, as was shown last week,
the Commonwealth paid the baby bonus on
20,000 more infants than were added to the
population. The explanation appears to be
that the Commonwealth pays bonuses for,
but the States (save Westralia) do notenter
in their statistical registers, viable children
born dead. In view of the need for live Aus-
tralians the record of 4000 babies per annum
stillborn might well be a subject for obser-
vation with a view to thorough treatment at
the next Medical Congress—or earlier by
a Federal Health Department.
The Sydney Labor Council is at logger-
heads with the Nationalists and Progressives
as a matter of course ; also it hates the bulk
of the Parliamentary
Labor party, fights the
Storey Government, and
is at bitter enmity with
the A.W.U. In fact, it
is difficult to guess what
it does represent now ex-
cept itself, the I.WAV.
incendiaries, the One Big
Union ghost, the foreign
element here, and its
demi-god Trotsky. Still,
it is the Council and its
executive has issued an
exhortation that what-
ever terms are offered in
settlement of the Broken
Hill strike they should
be rejected—legally or
afly old way. Production,
in fact, must be pre-
vented. Some people
wonder why a gang like
that isn’t indicted for
conspiracy and half-a-
dozen other things. But
this is a land of liberty.
In fact, it is a land where
a man can do almost any-
thing except refuse to
break the law and hang up some Australian
industry. There is the kind of slave that
works under compulsion and the kind that
loafs under compulsion, and the Australian
is, or is fast becoming, the second variety.
Since pony-races in the morning became a
disease, Sydney ironworkers have discovered,
like the sports in the building trade, that
Saturday work is the barbarous device of a
nefarious capitalistic system, and several
thousands of them stayed away last Satur-
day to drive the point home. But if it is
slavery to toil on Saturday, why should a
downtrodden proletariat be dragged to work
on Wednesday? There are races on Wednes-
day, too.
People, from kings upward, hate to part
With a shred of authority, and many kings
have got into a considerable fuss in conse-
quence. The Hughes Government being no
exception to the rule, in the matter of War
Precautions and otherwise, there are rumors
that the Convention which is to revise the
Federal Coastitution is to be partly nominee
—nominated by Hughes and co. —instead of
wholly elected by the people. This sort of
thing was the disaster of the present Con-
stitution. Certain nominees—State Premiers
who appointed themselves as a new Conven-
tion —proceeded to patch and daub the work
of the people’s elected delegates and put
in two supreme calamities, including the
proviso which makes the subdivision of
States practically impossible save by revolu-
tion. A second dose of nomineeism won’t
do. We have had too much already.
Victoria’s new Assembly, to be elected next
month, won’t represent the settled opinions
of the majority of citizens by a jugful. Not
only is a Redistribution Bill badly needed —
GETTING A BIT BOTH WAYS.
“But what if they start shootin' the profit-
eers?"
“Well, there ought to be good profits in
supplying them with munitions.”
some electorates are four times as populous
as others —but the rolls are almost as out of
date as the horse ’bus. In the recent Leg.
Council by-election dozens of farmers found
their names missing, while others who have
left the district or died years ago were
entitled to mark a ballot-paper if they had
turned up. One man whose name has been
on the cemetery roll nearly 20 years might
have voted if he could have left his little
allotment.
The Storey Government has given notice
of its Gaol for Profiteers Bill. So far nothing
has been said re increasing members’ salaries
to £750. Still it would settle many doubts
if the following were added to stand as sub-
section Y 2 clause 543 when the measure
is going through committee :
Provided also that where an employee takes out
of his boss’s pocket, and without his consent, a
sum equal to half the wages for which he under-
took to serve, his job shall be forfeited, and the
maximum penalty of seven years’ hard labor pro-
vided for the other bloque shall apply to himself.
“Lionel B.” writes re the selection of
Michael Collins as Labor candidate for East
Melbourne :—• -
When the first selection ballot wat held there
were several candidates, but a subsequent inquiry
by the executive showed that of 12 votes only three
were financial members of the A.L.P. Acting strictly
in accordance with the rules, there was no other
course open to the Executive but to arrange for a
fresh ballot, and to see that those people who voted
complied with ( the rules of the party. A fresh
ballot was ordered, and it was only after some per-
suasion that Collins consented to be a candidate.
He and others went to the poll, and the whole
thing was properly conducted. The very smallness
of the ballot shows that there were no underground
influences at work; for if an organiser who knew
his job set to work for a candidate he could bring
to any selection poll from 300 to 400 unionists
legally entitled to vote. Collins is no “blow-in.”
Though he does help to keep the pub opposite the
Trades Hall, he was a Labor mayor iri Westralia
15 years ago, and has been a leading light of the
Enginedrivers and Firemen’s Association for many
years and represents it on the Trades Hall Council.
He has given more time to labor work than to
the pub, which hjs mother keeps. The statement
that C. J. Bennett, a member of the Labor execu-
tive, who was also a candidate for the selection,
advised his supporters to vote for Collins, I know
of my own personal knowledge to be untrue.
The N. S. Wales Premier not only dis-
graced himself and his office when he
threatened to remove Judge Rolin because
he granted an increased wage to the hard-
worked, precariously-paid, long-hour cow-
cocky, but also supplied another reason why
places such as Sydney and Melbourne should
be States by themselves—city States like
the three great commercial ports of Ger-
many, legislating on city matters and leav-
ing cows alone. The cocky Is a piece-worker
because no Labor or other party has ever
offered him a minimum wage; and John
Storey’s threat because this piece-worker
was granted a rise, by a Court which is
always looked upon as just and equitable
and competent when it gives the city worker
or striker a rise, shows that the Balmain
iastinct isn’t big enough to run a country
with.
When their crops failed in 1914 hundreds
of W.A. cookies threw up their properties
and a thousand or two others had to ask the
State for seed-whefit, super, and credit at the
store. But the soil-ticklers had men among
them who didn’t lose
heart. They ran Cocky
candidates at the elec-
tions and won eight seats.
They acquired a small
co-operative enterprise,
and, by securing the con-
tract. for handling all the
W.A. wheat —their poli-
tical pull enabled them to
do that —they made it a
big thing. Some of the
farmers didn’t like co-
operation at first, but
when portion of the
wheat-handling profits
flowed back to them they
began to think there was
something in it. In time
the co-operators added
crop-insurance and other
departments and helped
to finance a freezing
enterprise at Fremantle.
Now they are increasing
their capital to £1,500,000
and going in for the
handling of wheat in
bulk; and the Federal
Government has pro-
mised to find £550,000 of
the money. It is an im-
pressive record, and when
Cocky started he hadn’t
a fraction of the numbers
or the capital at the dis-
posal of the A.W.U. or the Miners’ Federa-
tion. But the A.W.U. looks coldly at co-
operative trading, and the Miners’ Federa-
tion simply freezes it.
The N. S. Wales coalminers really don’t
want much: —
(1) An extreme nominal maximum of 1500 hours
work per year out of 8760 hours. That is to say,
five days of six hours per week for 50 weeks, the
other two weeks being holidays on full pay. From
the 1500 hours will be deducted casual holidays,
strike days and times of sickness, the last under
certain conditions to be on full pay.
(2) Payment to be made, not by the work that
man does, but by the time that God made.
(3) A fixed minimum wage (£1 per day has
been mentioned) whether there is much work done,
or little work, or imperceptible work.
(4) In addition to some sundries “an effective
voice in the executive control of the industry.”
A really effective voice will, of course, be
sufficient to prevent the dismissal of men
who don’t work or obey orders, or who want
to fight the boss. The other voice, the inef-
fective one, will be left to the men who
supply the capital, stand the losses, find
markets for the output, and are looked to to
open up new mines as the old ones wear out,
and thus keep the industry alive.
The Government has added another sitting
day to the Federal Parliamentary week, but
only a few conscientious members like
Groom, Tudor and Charlton notice the
further call on their time. The great
majority pair with one another, so there
is never more than half a House doing the
country’s work. The House staff, however,
hasn’t the privilege of pairing, and being
already under strength gets 12-hour shifts
without extra pay. The duties of the clean-
ing staff have particularly increased, though
it was already busy enough in attending to
extra rooms lately turned over to the grow-
ing army of female typists. It is worth
mentioning, by the way, that the patriotic
Hughes Government has apparently gone
back on its boasted policy of preference to
returned soldiers by filling up typist vacan-
cies from the unfair sex. The latest recruits
are bright and capable girls, but there are
equally qualified Diggers who would be glad
of their jobs.
“I rejoice at the launching of each new
American battleship,” said our polite Hughes
to a wandering newspaper minstrel from the
Land of the Wooden Ham. It did no harm,
of course, but so many things are not what
they seem and so few are; also, so many
geese are not swans that it is difficult to
rejoice very hard. The U.S. aims at having
the greatest navy on the oceans. But Japan
also aims as near that as it can get, and the
harder the IT.S. builds the harder the Jap
will build. These and other possible Behe-
moths may only bang each other all over the
Armageddon (late Pacific) Ocean; but mild
whale-like beings like Australia are some-
times knocked about in the mix-up.
AND NOW YOU MAY ALL GO TO SLEEP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Although hostilities ceased on November 11, 1918,
the War Precautions Act is still in force. Priminister
Hughes explains that it will not cease to operate
until November 2i>, because the Peace Treaty with
Hungary has not been ratified.’’
O savages of Bungaree
And gents of Ballarat,
We’re still at war with Hungary,
So paste it in your hat.
The situation’s serious
It fills me with affright—
To say that I’m imperious
Is simply Labor spite.
Invasion by barbarians
Is imminent —perhaps—
And, trust me, these Hungarians
Are bloody-minded chaps.
We haven’t guns to fight ’em with,
In case we are attacked.
No matter: I will smite ’em with
My War Precautions Act.
Through telescopes political
We gaze—myself and Cook—
On complications critical
Whichever way we look.
The Treasurer’s verbosity
Would drive the largest mill,
And Billie’s bellicosity
Is known from Nice to Nhill.
My nights are almost slumberless,
For grim phantasmal foes
(Impalpable but numberless)
Disturb your Bill’s repose.
But tremble not, 0 Bungaree,
Your crops shall be intact.
What daunts the hosts of Hungary?
My War Precautions Act.
N.S.W.
D. EMPSON.


THE PALMIST AND THE PERI.
“Mr. Ryan, M.H.R., hopes for exciting developments when Mr. Watt returns to Australia.”
THE PALMIST: "Madam. I see a dark gentleman across the water who is to have a great influence on your life.”


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
BHAS'
Brand.
Producers of Lead In the following forms —■ ,
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated).
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products —
Antimonial Lead. Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead, Lead Drosses. Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL, Manager. T. H. SEARS, Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 3
A. J. SMITH, London Manager and Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent). A „„„
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE, S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.B.W.
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
Tho Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HIGH=GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification,
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon, Chrome Vanadium, Acid-
resisting or other Alloy Steels of every description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
(Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London),
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W.
Branch Works in course of erection at West Guildford, Perth, W T .A.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Standard Fire and Marine Insur-
ance Co. (Maoriland) :
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1907. . £12,697 10 p.c. = £7,500 £5,197 £87,386
1908.. 8,180 10 „ „ 7,500 680 88,066
1909.. 12,573 10 „ „ 7,500 5,073 93,139
1910.. 20,610 11j,,,, 8,312 12,298 105,437
1911.. 18,512 lli„„ 8,500 10,012 115,449
1912.. 19;801 12 „„ 9,000 10,801 126,250
1913.. 23,176 13 „„ 9,750 13,426 139,676
1914.. 18,425 13 „ „ 9,750 8,675 148,351
1915.. 34,508 13J „„ 10,000 24,508 172,859
1916.. 11,834 13J „„ 10,000 1,834 174,693
19!7 23,170 131 „ „ 10,000 (. Q 188,863
Written off property, £lOOO )
June,
1918.. 12,934 131 p.c. = 5,000 7,934 194,797
1919.. 32,654 16j „„ 12,500 20,154 214,951
Reserves capitalised, £25,000 .. 189,951
1920.. 39,803 13J p.c.= 13,750 26,053 216,004
Subscribed capital is a million: 100,000
shares of £lO each ; but only £1 per share
has been called up, and one-fourth of the
paid capital represents reserves converted
into scrip 12 mouths ago. The Standard
has had such a wonderfully good run during
the past year that after giving shareholders
a dividend equal to ISA p.c. on the capital
as it stood before the recent capitalisation
of reserves, twice the amount distributed
was left in the business. Unlike many
other Australasian insurance offices, this
one has not hastened to issue bonus-shares
out of reserves, and after payment of the
latest div. accumulated profits were con-
siderably more than double the paid capital.
As a result, all but £1165 of the £13,750
dividend for the past year was met out of
investment earnings, only a little over 5
p.c. of the underwriting surplus being needed
to provide the balance. The great run the
Standard has had during recent years is
shown by this comparison of the underwrit-
ing figures:—
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £49,004 £32,600 £15,033 66.5 p.c. 30.7 p.ci
1900.. 55,475 29,830 15,285 53.8 „ 27.6 „
1905.. 54,246 29,399 18,011 54.2 „ 33.2 „
1910.. 73,370 36,593 23,760 49.9 „ 32.4 ~
1913.. 100,663 50,777 36,123 50.4 „ 35.8 „
1914.. 112,056 62,928 39,283 56.1 „ 34.9 „
1915.. 127,081 56,947 43,675 44.8 ~ 34.3 „
1916.. 128,581 77,661 50,175 60.4 „ 39.0 „
1917.. 125,502 61,926 60,521 49.3 ~ 40.2 „
1918*. 59,948 27,200 25,352 45.4 „ 42.3 „
1919.. 142,677 63,239 58,940 44.3 ~ 41.3 „
1920.. 165,054 73,331 70,200 44.4 „ 42.5 „
*Six months.
Except in. 1916, when Wilhelm’s tinfish were
making things somewhat uncomfortable, the
loss-rate over the abnormal period of war
and since has been wonderfully low. Instead
of the world upheaval hurting the insurance
cos., they have done better than ever before,
and those which plunged in the seemingly
very risky marine business came off best.
Since war-risks disappeared, underwriters
have continued to do very well: appreciated
values and trade activity have produced
large insurances, while, as a result of the
public’s purchasing capacity, stocks have
found so ready a sale that the moral hazard
has been unusually favorable. Since 1914
the Standard has collected almost three-
quarters of a million of net premiums and
met claims totalling £360,304, showing an
average loss-rate of 48.1 p.c. The expense-
rate is now a few points higher than for-
merly, chiefly because of Maoriland’s heavier
taxes: for 1914 £2154 was paid in taxes
and license fees; during the past year,
£11,653. Apart from taxes the expense-rate
in 1914 was 33.1 p.c., and last year 35.4 p.c.,
but the latter included depreciation charges.
These calculations do not take interest earn-
ings into account. Altogether, during the
5| years since Dec., 1914, shareholders have
had £61,250 in divs., while no less than
£92,653 has been left in the business for the
better protection of policy-holders.
The co. has thus had an extraordinarily
good run; but it is too much to hope that
it will continue indefinitely. The chairman
of the N.Z. Insurance Co. put the position
before his shareholders in this way recently:
Insurance cos. usually experience cycles of good
and bad years, and though I would not be justified
in saying we have reached the end of a cycle of
specially good years, yet there are sufficient signs
to indicate that we should prepare for a period less
favorable.
While nrices are maintained at a high level
the volume of business will, of course, be
heavy; but once the loan-drunk stops and
the morning-after begins, the insurance cos.’
position will become less comfortable. Still,
most offices have done so very well during
recent years that they can stand a knock
or two/ The Standard has got itself into
a particularly strong position: after passing
out the dividend the management Hem over
£316.000 of funds, equal to 191 p.c. of last
year’s record premium income. That is con-
siderably better than the proportion of 150
p.c. usually regarded as fair protection for
policy-holders, and, from this point of view,
the Standard is much stronger than most of
its big English competitors. Put another
way, apart from incoming premiums, the co.
has funds ample to meet losses in excess of
the aggregate claims shown for the past 44
years. And behind that is £900,000 of un-
called capital.
How funds are invested is shown in the
next comparison :—,
1914. 1919. 1920.
Mortgages .. £115,965 £94,610 £76,630
Debentures .. 58,719 49,035 54,035
War Loan .. 101,800 139,000
Premises . . 17,318 13,839 12,504
Cash, etc. . . 47,522 57,435 60,373
In pre-war days the Standard’s manage-
ment put its faith and much of its spare cash
into mortgages, a profitable form of invest-
ment but not altogether satisfactory for a
concern which might at any time be hit
badly and, lie forced to realise hastily on
some of it*s investments. At the .1914 bal-
ance mortgages represented no less than
48.4 p.c. of all assets. But the opportunity
offering to take up good-interest Government
securities has effected big changes. At the
latest balance only 22.4 p.c. of assets was out
on mortgage, while War Loan represented
over 40 p.c., practically three-fourths of the
balance-sheet total comprising gilt-edged
securities, cash or other readily-converted
assets. The Standard has been writing poli-
cies 47 years.
* * » *
Walkers, Limited, engine-builders, etc.
(Maryborough, Q.) :
Dividends and Written
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Reserves.
1906 ..£2,182 Nil £6500 £3,411
1907 . . 2,593 Nil 2500 3,504
1908 .. 3,288 3 p.c. =£2026 2000 2,766
1909 . . 7,248 5 „ „ 3376 2500 4,138
1910 .. 11,144 7 „ „ 4726 3000 7,556
£12,854 of internal reserves disclosed
and transferred to capital.
1911 .. 22,125 9 p.c. = 7291 3000 19,390
1912 .. 25.454 JO „ ~ 8340 3000 33,504
1913 . . 21,014 10 „ „ 8620 3000 42,898
1914 . . 17,193 10 „ „ 8694. 3000 48,397
1915 . . 16,874 10 „ „ 8694 3000 53,577
Reserves capitalised, £41,403 .. 12,174
1916 .. 11,669 7 p.c. = 9133 2500 12,210
1917 . . 11,859 7 ~ „ 9133 2500 12.436
1918 -.. 11.570 7 „ „ 9133 2500 12,373
1919 . . 47 Nil 12,420
1920 . . 12,005 7 p.c. = 9291 2760 12,384
This pioneer engineering co. struck a heap
of trouble during its 1919 financial year ; de-
layed shipments of materials, unexpectedly
high prices resulting in heavy losses on con-
tracts, a Board-room squabble and the
resignation of the g.-m. all helped to leave a
blank in that year’s P. and L. account. The
directors did claim a profit of £47, but as,
apparently, no provision had been made for
depreciation, the yeaf’s operations probably
resulted in a loss. During the past year the
co. has made a recovery, though there is
nothing handsome about the £9255 net profit
disclosed considering the volume of work
handled. Recent operations have included
the construction of 20 locomotives for the
Transcontinental, a contract for 10 locomo-
tives for the Queensland Government is well
in hand, and the keels of two of the four
60QO-ton steamships for the Commonwealth
Government have been laid. It is impossible
to gauge how profitable these long-distance
jobs will prove under existing unsettled con-
ditions. and the extension of operations to
shipbuilding is, after all, experimental. But
Walker’s, Ltd., has a fine 36-years’ record
behind it, and if it can turn out ships with
the same success as it has locomotives its
future should be very bright. In the past
the co. has had to depend largely on over-
seas manufacturers for its materials, but the
success of the Newcastle steel works has
eased the position somewhat, and the isolation
of the enterprise in the North may not be a
disadvantage in the days to come if the pro-
posed Queensland State steel works are
successfully established.
The shipbuilding activities have necessi-
tated considerable additions to plant, and,
incidentally, a greater dependence on out-
siders for financial assistance. Bank over-
drafts alone have increased from £15,899 to
£79,189 in two years. This compares the
balance-sheet movements since 1918 and
over the past 10 years:—
1910. 1918. 1920.
Liabilities £13,382 £33,890 £98,572
Fixed assets, less depre-
ciation reserve . . . . 36,688 47,350 86,608
Stock-in-trade . . .. 13,039 25,873 3(1,315
Investments.. .. . . 30,167 52,051 61,958
Completed work, cash,
deposits, etc. .. .. 14,573 58,316 69,808
Paid capital is £124,193; total funds,
£136,577; and £98,572 is a heavy swag
of debt, The magnitude of liabilities
casts a shadow of suspicion on one lot of
assets which at first glance would appear to
be of a liquid nature: “Invested funds,
£61,958.” No information is given concern-
ing these and seeing that they
represent an amount equal to almost half
the paid capital the directors might have a
little more to say on the matter. Consider-
ably over one-half of the liabilities, however,
are represented by the estimated value
of work completed and deposits lodged
on contracts in hand. Assuming that the
“invested funds” referred to above are fairly
liquid, then, including stocks, there is a more
or less liquid surplus of £63,510. During
the past 10 years paid capital has grown
by £59,591, but only £5634 was new money
got in from shareholders, bonus scrip having
meantime been issued against £54,257 of
reserves. That, of course, makes the 7 p.c.
div. much more tasty for old holders than
would appear at first glance. Over the same
period the book value of fixed assets has
expanded by practically £50,000.
* * * *
Arthur Cocks & Co.. Ltd., wholesale
traders in optical goods, jewellery, etc.:
r — Dividends- ~ To Re- De-
July, Profit. Pref. 7 p.c. Ordinary, serves, ficit.
1912. . £10,861 £lO9O 10 p.c. = £5,404 £4367 £8,477
1913.. 7,373 1112 8 „ „ 4.327 1934 6,543
1914.. 7,333 1414 4 ~ „ 2,164 3765 2,788
1915.. 6,648 1503 71 „ „ 4,057 1088 1,700
Reserves.
1916.. 10,532 1503 10 „ „ 5,409 3620 1,920
1917.. 11,945 1503 10 ~ „ 5,409 5033 6,953
Transferred from contingency reserves 1700 8,653
1918.. 13,077 1503 121 p.c.= 6,762 4812 13,465
1019.. 10,110 1503 121,, „ 6,996 1611 15,076
1920.. 21,074 1503 15 „ „ 11,779 7792 22,868
Reserves capitalised, £lO,OOO .. 12,868
Further evidence of the time the trader in
luxuries has been having! After meeting
the prefs.’ 7 p.c., the profit available for the
ordinaries represented almost 25 p.c. on their
paid capital of £78,530; and not all of that
has been actively at work helping the turn-
over. Twelve months ago the strain- on
finances had become so heavy that the
directors decided to get in the £21,437 balance
of nominal capital. But these funds have
not assisted in the way that had been
anticipated. The co.’s landlord having dis-,
posed of the premises in which it was housed,
the management had to seek a new home,
and acquired a freehold for £40,000, pay-
ing £15,000 in cash and meeting the balance
by mortgage. So the new capital has not
eased the co.’s position to any extent:
liabilities 12 months ago totalled £40,333;
at the latest balance, apart from the £25,000
mortgage, £38,041. The new funds having
been thus diverted, the nominal capital is
now being increased to £150,000, and the
directors propose an issue of 30,000
ordinaries. Shareholders are invited to sub-
scribe 20,000. and, as if an inducement were
necessary, £lO,OOO of reserves are being
utilised to make the issue paid to 6s. Bd. for
a start. The capitalisation of profits left in
the business is also considered opportune,
“particularly as taxation is foreshadowed
which may put a surcharge upon dividends
over and above certain proposed limitations.”
Everybody’s doing it; ever since the rumor
was started that it was the Government's
intentions to tax so-called excess-profits even
the most conservative managements have
hastened to capitalise their visible and in-
ternal reserves. It is incredible that any
Treasury should contemplate taxation which
will penalise those concerns which have left
large amounts of profit in the business, in-
stead of drawing out every available bean.
The sooner the N.S.W. Government in
particular announces its intentions, or
declares that, it hasn’t any, the better; for
the wholesale wiping out of reserves and the
piling up of capital is liable to have far-reach-
ing effects, and all of them bad. For one thing
(and this should appeal to a Labor Govern-
ment) over-capitalising means a struggle to
make and pay away more profits than the
business can reasonably stand; and that is
an incentive to sweating and other unfair
treatment of labor.
Arthur Cocks’s co. is not going the whole
hog in the matter of capitalisation of reserves,
for after the transfer of £lO,OOO there will
still remain £12,868 visible, while only
£lO,OOO of a £130,000 paid capital will re-
present bonus scrip. The big factor deciding
disclosed profits is the basis on which stock
is taken, for an amount in excess of the paid
capital is represented by that asset alone.
Managing-director Arthur Cocks declares
that stocks have been “prudently and care-
fully taken.” The balance-sheet movements
since the co. took over the old proprietary
business are shown hereunder: —
1912. 1919. 1920.
Deposits .. ..£18.458 £16,847 £10,035
Other liabilities .. 22,293 23,486 53,006
Premises .. .. 40,328
Stocks 59,507 102,798 105,788
Book debts .. .. 42,889 34,435 46,675
Plant, etc 2,132 2,922 3,883
Cash, investments, etc. 1,808 5,923 9,390
The co. has done very well, and just at
present the loan boom is fattening it. But
its future cannot be judged on recent per-
formances. The abnormal conditions at
present favoring it cannot last indefinitely,
and when the public receives its first shock
of disillusionment as to the real nature of
the prosperity it is “now enjoying such cos.
as this are certain to experience a cold spell.
• * * *
BAramata Plantations, Ltd.—This is
an offshoot of Domara River Plantations,
Ltd. The Domara was floated in 1910, and
took up first 2000 and then another 1000
acres on a 99 years’ lease on the coast be-
tween Samarai and Moresby, Papua. '' ar
and other troubles upset calculations, but the
enterprise at last shows promise of good
returns, particularly since rubber prices have
improved. During the eight months to June,
from 15,000 trees tapped over 30,0001 b.
rubber were produced. 80 p.c. of it fetching
2s. 2d. per lb., while cost of production is
said to have been only Bd. per lb. Meantime
the copra output is gradually increasing as
the trees mature. Of its 3000 acres the
Domara has planted 250 with rubber and
460 with cocoanuts, but is clearing a further
100 acres. Only a small portion of the
leases has thus been brought under cultiva-
tion, and the chances or the present co.
planting much of the remaining area are, for
years to come, not bright. Practically 11
years have passed since operations began,
and shareholders have not yet had a divi-
dend. To make use of its land Domara could
go on utilising profits for development a
very slow process—or launch a new co.
to take over portion of the uncultivated
area, and thus secure funds to undertake more
rapid development. Shareholders decided ou
the latter course, so Baramata Plantations,
Ltd., in 30,000 shares of £1 each, is being
floated. It is proposed to take over about
1500 acres from the Domara Co., which will
receive 5000 fully paids in exchange. That
co.’s shareholders, or, failing them, the public,
are invited to take up 20,000 shares to be
paid to ss. for a start. It is proposed to
clear between 300 and 400 acres as rapidly
as possible, and plant with rubber and cocoa-
nuts ; 100 acres to be transferred already
carry two-year-old palms. The co. starts
under favorable conditions: there is no cash
consideration, and the yields from the
Domara are demonstrating the suitability of
the district for rubber and copra. The
Domara management (which will also
manage the Baramata) reckons on the
£20,000 cash to be subscribed seeing the
enterprise through to its seventh year, by
which time the early planting should come
into bearing, if all goei well.
Incidentally, this flotation may possibly
suggest something to the Papuan administra-
tion. Here obviously was a case where
3000 acres were acquired by a concern
incapable of handling so ltyrge an area; and
the one-sixth interest which it demands from
the newcomer represents (save for the small
amount of planting done) the gross evils of
landlordism. It is a serious reflection upon
Papuan administration.
« * * *
How the finances of the big retail fluff
cos. have been strained by high prices and
the necessity for maintaining large stocks
is illustrated by some figures produced by
David Jones, Ltd., of Sydney, in support of
an impending quarter-million issue of p.c.
2nd prefs. This co., whose accounts are not
regularly brought to light, is trying to inter-
est its customers in the business by giving
them the prior right to subscribe the new
capital. The pro-forma balance-sheet issued
is an interesting document (the figures are
as at July 31) :
Paid capital.. £559,804
Reserve fund 175,000
P. & L. balance 81,567
Deposits . . 14.369
Overdraft . . 287,259
Sundry creditors 116,206
Mortgages and
balances due
on freeholds 202,653
£1,436,858
Freeholds, lease-
holds and fixed
assets . . £520,250
Stock (less
£50,000 re-
serve) . . 668,376
Book debts (less
reserve) .. 198,762
Branch balances 39,239
Investments and
cash.. .. 10,231
£1,436,858
Nominal capital is a million, and the
£559,804 paid up as at July 31 comprised
£150,000 of 6 p.c. Ist prefs. and £409,804 of
ordinaries. Total outside liabilities amounted
to no less than £620,487. But the book value
of stocks alone was £48,000 in excess of
these liabilities, and altogether there were
surplus liquid assets of £306,121. The
security afforded the new pref. issue is thus
very good. Since the balance-sheet was com-
piled £83,911 more ordinary capital has been
got in. so after allowing cover for the
£150,000 of Ist prefs. there were assets over
and above liabilities of a book value exceed-
ing three-quarters of a million. Or when
the quarter-million of 2nd prefs. has been
got in there will be practically £4 of assets
to guarantee every £1 subscribed to the new
issue.
There is a proviso in the new Common-
wealth Bank Bill that joint-stock banks
must hold 20 p.c. of their call or short-dated
deposits and 10 p.c. of long-range deposits
in notes, and therefore idle and earning
nothing, with a surplus over for use. The
balance-sheet of the Commonwealth Bank to
June 30 shows deposits £41,002,908, notes
held £1,964,722. That is, 4| p.c., not 151,
which the new provisos average out at.
Are we to take it that the Government’s
bank is rotten on the evidence of the Govern-
ment’s own Bill? Or is the 151 P-C. a mere
inflation device, and a forced loan raised in
side-long fashion by a crowd of hand-to-mouth
financiers? In England the Labor organisa-


Do you use soldering irons in your business? No
doubt you would appreciate the advantages of those
which stay hot and are free from the soot of a
heating flame. The G.E. Electric Soldering Iron
possesses these and many other advantages over the
old style. It costs but little for current, and re-
quires very little attention to be kept clean and
well tinned. An exclusive feature of this iron is
the spiral coil wire handle, which keeps remarkably
cool, and which may be grasped close to the tip
without discomfort. Australian General Electric
Company; corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn
Street, Sydney; and corner Queen and Little Collins
Streets, Melbourne.— Advt. [2
* * * *
Engineers and mechanics will find that with G.F.
Malleable Fittings they can do their fittings quicker,
saving time, labor and money. G.F. Malleable Fit-
tings, made from best British iron, are lighter and
superior to wrought fittings—have perfect threads —
geometrically correct —true to sizes, which range from
Jin. to 6in. Over 6000 varieties. Sole Agents, Wm.
Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and Perth.-^ Advt. [5
* * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe. —Copy of letter received
from Elmore Waterworks Trust, Elmore, 28th Feb.,
1919: “Dear Sir—Yours of the 19th inst. in regard
to pipes supplied to this Trust. The pipes have
been and are still in every way satisfactory, and are
quite suitable for our requirements. The cost of
maintenance during the six years of service has been
nil, If we were putting in any further pipe lines
your firm would certainly be favored with our orders.
Yours truly (Sgd.), S. Southam, Sec.” Send for our
illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Company Ltd. (H. 0.), Burns Bay Road, Longueville,
N.S.W. Contractors to all State Governments. —
Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent' Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colwson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide.— Advt.
Mix your concrete with Leplastrier’s Patent “Multi-
mix” Concrete Mixer. Sizes from 1£ to 54 cubic
ft. per batch. Drain your roads with concrete pipes
made with “Leplastrier’s” “Quickset” Pipe Moulds.
All Australian-made by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.,
Head Office, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. (London); Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work ; contractors advised; railway work.
60 Queen-street, Melbourne.— -Advt.
* * * *
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult*
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams': “Remlap,
Melbourne.”— Advt.
♦ * • •
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B. Selby k Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.— Advt.
DRILLS
'7
StocKed by
HYDROMAX & HYDROMITE,
Hammer Water Stopers
Britannia Hand Hammer Drills
Made by the Climax Rock Drill Engineering Co., Cornwall.
ALSO
Chersen Reciprocating Drills.
LTD., 10-12 George St., Camper down (City), Sydney
gf
tion appointed a committee to inquire into
the high cost of living, and its first report is
to the effect that a prominent cause is too
much paper, and that if the superfluous rag-
money was gradually got rid of a fall of 20
p.e. might be looked for. Such a report
would be improbable if not impossible in
Australia, where politicians like Lazzarini
are still wallowing in the bog of unlimited
paper currency; but English Laborites are
closer to countries like Russia, where
P a P er is so cheap that boots are
fcoOOO a pair.
* * * *
“Incog.” makes a novel proposal—to pay
the war bill: —
“Squandering and payment by loan is no way to
choke a deficit,” wrote Carlyle. The truth of this
is becoming slowly apparent to more and more people
in our day. Loan upon loan is obtained “till,” as
he says, “now with such cumulation and height the
pile topples perilous.” Loans are floated and prices
of everything continue to soar with the increase of
credit accompanying the swelling of the Public Debt.
We have had War loans, then Victory loans and now
Peace loans, and what loans are to succeed puzzle
the imagination. How utterly futile are all these
loans I Borrowing is not payment.
The carrying on of the war was to protect our
lives, liberties and possessions. Our stake in lives
and liberties was equal, but our stake in possessions
was unequal. It is, therefore, manifestly equitable
that we should contribute to the payment of the
costs of the war and its consequences according to
the possessions we had at stake. If the enemy had
won, our possessions would have been of no value to
us, they would have been “cut up” amongst the
victors. Therefore, all the expenses entailed in pro-
tecting our respective belongings should be paid pro-
portionately by each of us.
Borrowing is merely postponing the evil day and
adding to the confusion and sufferings following in
the wake of a great war. The people as a whole
waged the war, but the value of the possessions pro-
tected varied, and the contribution to cover the cost
should be made in proportion to the value of the.
individual possessions secured to their owner by the
expenditure now represented by the Public Debt.
It is a flagrant anomaly that any man (other than,
possibly, a soldier) should be better off financially
after the waste of five years of war than he was be-
fore it began. The nation is certainly worse off;
and if, as in some Utopia, all wealth was held
in common, it would be as broad as it is long. But
all wealth is not held in common but individually,
and therefore the cost of the war should be borne
not equally, but in proportion to the wealth of the 1
individual. The borrowing method obscures the in-
equitableness of the position. Its wastefulness is
trenchantly condemned by Hartley Withers. Imagine
business houses placarding the cities with picture-
posters and dropping pamphlets from aeroplanes, to
say nothing of the invocations of mayoral and other
aspiring persons, urging everyone to buy bonds at
ever-rising rates of interest, in order that they might
pay their way! No, they had supplied the goods, and
each debtor would have to pay. his account, not buy
their bonds, so that they might meet their obliga-
tions. But with the nation the methods are different.
Instead of each of us getting his account for the
bloody orgy, he is besought to buy bonds, making
the nation his debtor, while we leave our debt to
the nation unsettled.
But, it will be said, many people while having
much property have no ready money and could not
pay their share of the cost of the war. Their
property was protected, and they should borrow at
interest on it to pay their account, even if they had
to borrow from the Government, instead of the Gov-
ernment doing the borrowing and leaving the account
uncollected, nay even unrendered.
In such a matter as this our despised aboriginals
are ahead of us. When a tribal war is over the
tribe has not a huge debt owing to some members of
the tribe. It is up to us to get at least abreast of
our black brother. Make an end of. loans and wipe
out the national debt, each one standing up to his
share of the war bill. If this policy is pursued less
would be heard of Bolshevism, High Cost of • Liv-
ing and other disturbing ailments that so seriously
affect the body politic, and which will continue to
keep it in a highly feverish condition until some
such restorative is applied.
**' * *
In Victoria 461 registrations of concerns
with an aggregate capital -of £37,328,000
were recorded for the eight months ended
August 31, as compared with 302 with an
aggregate capital of £9,324,500 for the whole
of 1919. The registrar has also noted
remarkable activity, to put it mildly, in land
traductions. On present figures he expects
100,000 Titles Office dealings in 1920.
Unsatisfactory progress has been made
during the past fortnight with the settle-
ment of the 18-month-old Broken Hill strike.
J. B. Holme, N.S.W. Conciliation Commis-
sioner, got the parties together and led them
on to agree to refer the whole of the matters
in dispute to a tribunal to be presided over
by somebody nominated by Storey and
Hughes. Previously a round-table confer-
ence had been held which was quite abor-
tive, largely, so one of the parties believed,
because of the way in which Judge Edmunds
handled it. Nevertheless, Judge Edmunds
was appointed chairman of this new body;
and, as might have been expected, there
was trouble before the end was reached. The
time seems, nearly ripe for the appointment
of a Commission to inquire into the methods
and operations of Commissions and such like.
“M.R.”: The Commonwealth Government,
after pressure, has imposed a modified
embargo on the export of Maitland coal,
whereby Australian consumers are to have
first call thereon. As Maitland coal is pre-
ferred and almost solely used throughout
the States, the embargo should meet require-
ments by keeping inter-State vessels con-
tinually on the move, 'and thereby build up
stocks. Coal produced from the Borehole
and other seams in the Newcastle district is
not included in the embargo, and is avail-
able for export. Beyond doubt, with the
present world shortage, the commodity is
worth more to the oversea buyer than the
present fixed f.o.b. Newcastle rates, although
the cos. receive a reasonable return on their
capital at these rates. As the Common-
wealth Government controls the industry,
the cos. nominally act as its agents, and per-
mission to export should be restricted to them.
This would prevent dealing, w r hereby non-
producers reap harvests by pushing up prices.
Cargoes would be just as readily snapped up
at an increase of ss. per ton on existing
rates, _ and if applied towards the reduction
of prices of local supplies the effect would
be to enable Australian industries to pro-
duce goods at a lower cost, and not only
compete more successfully with imported
manufacturers, but reduce the cost of goods
consumed locally. Assuming the annual
output as 8,000,000 tons, of which 3,000,000
would be exported, an additional £750,000
would be received over and above the fixed
rate if this additional ss. charge were made,
and if applied as suggested this would reduce
the price of the 5,000,000 tons consumed
locally by 3s. per ton.
* * * #
Great Cobar Co. (N.S.W.) is evidently
not worrying much about the warning given
it by the Warden when six months’ suspen-
sion was granted last May. Since then much
plant has been sold, £35,000 worth of elec-
trical equipment having been realised only
recently. Some small effort is still being
made to keep the water down in the parent
mine and in Cobar Gold. Suspension expires
next month on Cobar Gold and Chesney
leases, and the co.’s next move is awaited
with keen interest locally, especially since
it is well known that some of Gt. Cobar’s
big guns are firm believers in the value of
Cobar Gold. It is whispered that experi-
ments in treating that mine’s ores have
proved successful lately.
Gundagai Long Tunnel (N.S.W.) has
struck new troubles. The stopes above No.
3 lqvel having faulted, the ore body has been
lost, and manager Allen has dead work
ahead trying to pick it up again. Meantime
heavy water has swamped the hope that
sinking in the winze below this level might
prove profitable. By driving from 80ft.
down in the winze below the south tunnel an
effort is now being made to pick up the shoot
from which Kenny’s party got good returns
in days agone. The Long Tunnel has a lot
of ioz. stuff available for its battery, with
which it hopes to finance operations until
its strayed ore body shows up again.
• * # »
Carr’s Creek (N.S.W.) has doubled its
available dirt by taking up eight miles on
the Vegetable Creek course, estimated to con-
tain f-million yards, averaging 21b. The
acquisition of the new area also helps the
water supply. The co.’s lOin. sluicing plant
at Carr’s Creek is now almost ready to
operate, and the 20,000 reserve shares are
being put out to equip the new property
with plant.
* # * *
Concerning the Burma mines in which
Australia has some interest j -
John A. Agnevv, who went from Kalgoorlie to
join the Hoover group in London before the war,
is' now the head serang of the Burma Corporation.
This is the co. which the Bewick-Moreing firm pro-
moted to take over the old Chinese silver-lead mines
in the Shan province of North Burma, but 8., M.
and Co. were eventually jolted out of control, and
Hoover became . the chief driving force. The mine
consists of a sheared zone 8000 ft. long and 350 ft. to
500 ft. wide. In it lie the Chinaman and the Shan
shoots, but separated by a distinct fault line.
Chinese worked the deposits for silver from the 15th
century to 1868, but departed after a revolution,
thus letting 8., M. and Co. in to smelt the rich lead
slags left behind and to open the way for the
development carried out since. Rejecting all ore
under 20 p.c. combined lead and zinc, Agnew shows
the following in the two big claims:—
Chinaman Lode. Shan Lode.
Proved.. .. 3,909,990 tons. 302,944 tons.
Probable . . 310,780 tons. 186,834 tons.
As to quality, 4,157,462 tons average 23.90 z. silver,
26.7 p.c. lead, 18.8 p.c. zinc and .4 p.c. copper,
and 335,681 tons 23.10 z. silver, 12.8 p.c. lead, 7.7
p.c. zinc and 11 p.c. copper. Then there are
3,200,000 tons low-grade stuff going about soz.
silver and 6 p.c. lead, apart from a probable mil-
lion tons in the next 200 ft. of sinking worth 28 p.c.
lead and 240 z. silver. Broken Hill is low-grade by
comparison, as it averages about 15 p.c. lead, Boz‘.
silver and 12 p.c. zinc. .
A big smelting programme has been drafted for the
Burma, as its new plant, to be put down at once,
will have a capacity of 60,000 tons lead and
5,000,0000 z. silver per annum. Then an electrolytic-
zinc plant in India is to be designed to treat 25,000
tons concentrates annually, and the co. will launch
out into the galvanising business in conjunction
with the Tata Iron and Steel Cq. To escape British
taxation, the co. was recently turned over to a new
20-million rupee concern, to be domiciled in India,
where cheap power, cheap labor and State support
are at its disposal. But direction will be from
London, with Govett and Agnew in the lead. The
yarn is current that before Hoover set about pros-
pecting the U.S. presidency he cleared his Burma
holdings. A lot of Americans are on the mine staff,
but Aussie talent is also being introduced.
Some of the cos. which lately withdrew
their, pegs at Hampton Plains are searching
for new properties. A couple are nosing
around Widgiemooltha and Norseman, others
have their eyes on the Murchison and Mt.
Margaret fields; while one, the Uruguay
Hope, has taken an option at Maldon (Vic.).
An exodus to some of the old mining camps
in tlie West has started from St. Ives, and
it looks as though there will be a hurried
flit also from Mt. Monger presently. In fact,
one co., the Waverley, has already departed
and taken an option on a show near Mt.
Magnet, which to a depth of about 100 ft.
has produced over 4000 oz. gold and is cer-
tainly worth a trial.
Edna May Central (W.A.) has opened up
a considerable quantity of fair-grade ore at
the No. 5 level, and, were conditions more
favorable, there might have been prospects
of divs. The ore now being mined is the
Consolidated Middle lode, but this is likely
to be no more profitable to Central that it
proved to be to Consolidated. Since water
has been permitted to rise in Edna May
workings, the inflow in Central has increased,
and it is now costing Central almost as
much to deal with the water as it did Edna
May when the latter carried the water 1
burden for the field.
* * * #
“O.B.”: The Westonia field did not have
so good a run as would have been the case
had there been one strong man either at
Westonia or among the directors. Central,
Deeps and Consolidated Boards contended all
along that their mines did not receive any
benefit from Edna May pumping operations.
Of course, various interested parties knew
such contention was absurd, but they had
their jobs and the share market to consider.
The withdrawal of the Edna May pumps
has demonstrated in no uncertain way the
bungle that has been perpetrated at Westonia
in connection with the water difficulty. Had
there been only one mining co., or even four
cos. with a joint pumping plant between
them, the records of Westonia would have
been something to be proud of. As it is, the
field produced one good mine whose revenue
was unduly taxed by having to bear prac-
tically the total cost of unwatering the belt.
The other three have been duffers from a
dividend point of view.
* * * *
South Ivalgurli (W.A.) treated 71,309 tons
for the year ended March 31 last, and
receipts, including £18,021 of gold premium,
totalled £115,889. Expenditure absorbed all
but £9398. and a 9d. div. paid in August
took £9375. Ore reserves at March 31 were
estimated at 190,934 tons, assaying 6.45dwt.,
with 92,246 tons of probable ore woUb
s.6Bdwt. Recent discoveries at the No. 15
level, where ore going up to 4oz. per ton has
been exposed, has, according to the manager,
increased the grade of actual reserves to
Costs soared another ss. 3d. per
ton during the past year.
Obit, in Vancouver, 8.C., Tom Cue, who
prospected and gave his name to Cue (W.A.).
Lake View Investment Trust, which is the
old Lake View and Oroya (W.A.) recon-
structed so that the British taxing authorities
will treat it more kindly, sees prospects of
giving its shareholders a bite again early
next year, after having been off the dividend-
list since 1916, when a 5 p.c. was paid. The
£lOO,OOO holding in the Burma Corporation
is expected to provide enough.
Oroya Links (W,A.) showed an income
of £110,567 for the past year, and made a
net 'profit of £12,074. The co.’s Kalgoorlie
mine is still in the hands of tributors, and
will probably remain, so »until more favor-
able conditions as to working costs and
available labor supply give the co. encour-
agement to resume work on its own account.
Prime Minister Hughes has promised to
raise the reward for the discovery of oil
from £lO,OOO to £50,000. The Anglo-Persian
Oil Co. will not be eligible to receive this
bonus jf it finds oil in Papua, because it
is being paid for its work there.
Five sanguine oil-hunters, said to be repre-
senting syndicates, have applied to the Vic.
Mines Department for 650 acres each at
Coburg and Brunswick, just outside Mel-
bourne, and at Mitcham, beyond Box Hill,
12 miles out. One of the coveted spots is
alongside Pentridge Stockade. As a fact,
the Mines Department has no power to
grant leases except in respect of Crown
lands and in regard to areas sold by the
Lands Department since 1892. It looks as
if the applicants desire to establish a little
priority in case there should be any develoo
inents: they will probably try to bargain
with propputy-owners for bore sites. Two
of the applicants are Joneses, E.G. and
8.V.; G. Cummings, L. Wheeler and F. C.
Jefferson are the others. The State’s geolo-
gists don’t give them a hope; but there is
always the answer that there are more things
in Heaven and earth than the text-books
tell about.
New Caledonia oil areas are to be exam-
ined next month by an oil expert on behalf
of a leading British oil corporation. A
Brisbane eo., which spent £20,000 boring
near a seepage of petroleum at Ivoumac,
has placed it's property under option to
the London group of oil capitalists. It
is quite likely the verdict will be that
the oil is not under the seepage; but it
may be found a few miles north on the hills.
Oil prospectors hardly ever bore over a see-
page, which is merely an indication that the
oil formerly below has escaped to the sur-
face. Oil can only be found in payable
quantities when the geological structure is
correct —that is, in tertiary strata with an
impervious shale holding down the petro-
leum in the oil-sands. Several Melbourne
syndicates hold likely oil areas in the Kou-
mac district.
A new venture, the Jubilee Coal Co., is
being formed with a capital of £20,000 to
work an area of 460 acres at St. Mary’s
(Tas.). There are three seams in the
measure, 10. 8 and 5 ft. wide, all declared
to be of good quality and favorably situated.
Consulting mine-manager McDonald, late of
the Dalmayne, estimates that there are nine
million tons of coal available, and on a
yearly output of 150,000 tons he figures on
delivering screen coal into railway trucks at
a cost of 7s. 6d. per ton. The vendors take
£5500 in fully-paid scrip, and are to get
£lOOO from profits.


DAVID AND GOLIATH —(Modern version).
GOLIATH: “Shall I stand my ground, or would it be advisable to take wing before he begins to sling off?”


THE
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees.
New South Wales: Victoria: Queensland
The only Trustee Company having
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Hon. H. Y. Braddon,.
M.L.C., F. B. S. Falkiner, James Kidd, W. H.
Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan Sinclair.
V. G. WATSON, JOHN MAIR,
Assistant Manager. Manager.
is
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it Were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
I fltncnn Store f n 102 Daking House,
UdlllSUH Service WJ., Svdney.
Olderfleet, Collins Street. Melbourne.
N.Z. —John Proctor. 200 Hiah St., Christchurch
W.A.-H. Little &• Co., 851 Hay St., Perth
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARIIINQ ROOF GARDEN.
V. T. rHFTCSEMAN.
mmm
PLUG SUCE
THe
finest
TOBACCO
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed.
“EDGEWORTH’’
Li
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNIES
LINSEED
OIL
F. B. Clapp, just dead in Melbourne,
should have had Cobb for his other name. His
coaches were as much Cobb's coaches in the
minds of early Victorians as those of the
original Cobb. Clapp set himself to work
when the floating Fifties were roaring their
loudest to provide traction for the digger
population, and soon after his opening effort,
about 1854, his vehicles were on all the
tracks to the centres of greatest uproar.
In much later years he was conspicuous in
Melbourne by reason of whiskers that no
other man in Australia had courage to
associate himself with. They were the long-
est Dundrearies imaginable. Will Dyson’s
caricature of that unique fringe was a feature
of his farewell exhibition. Mrs. Clapp, by
the way, purchased the drawing—in the hope,
perhaps, that by placing the whiskers ever
before her husband’s eyes he might grow
weary of the sight of them.
Hamilton Goold-Adams, who formerly
wore the cocked hat of a -blameless life in
Bananaland, and died at Cape Town in
April, left £21,891.
Old Philip Parer, of Surrey Hills (Vic.),
passed out last week. He was one of three
original Parer brothers who gave their name
to the Bourke-street restaurant in Melbourne
and helped solace their fellow-man with
creature comforts. Another of the brothers
begat the gallant aviator of the hour, so the
late Philip, who fell just short of dying an
octogenarian, was the young man’s great-
uncle.
Very few white men have more than a
passing acquaintance with the language of
the abos. along the Sunset line. But Tom
Ash, now in charge of the railway pumping-
station at Ooldea, can keep his end up in
a conversation in
the yabber of any
of the tribes in
those parts. There
are a good many of
them, too, for in
winter the Ooldea
sandhills are a
favorite camping-
ground for the
abos. from the Nul-
labor Plains, who
find the open lands,
with nothing t o
break the wind, too
cold and bleak.
ESTELL, N.S.W.
Minister for Works
and Railways.
George Stuart Briner, N. S. Wales
M.L.A., just dead after 20 years’ service, had
a unique Parliamentary record. From the
first he was really an Independent, and
preached abolition of the dishonest party
system and elective Ministries. Many a
hamstrung and shackled politician envied
him his freedom as he moved easily about
casting a vote from any side or angle that
the sheer merit of a question seemed to
require. In point of magnitude, too, his
correspondence was a record, and the assiduity
with which he generally labored to get
through it compensated in the eyes of his
faithful constituency, Raleigh, for the periods
he used to spend in Lewisham Hospital owing
to a little trouble of his that proved obdurate
to the last.
Lawson, McPherson, Barnes, Mackey,
Old, Bowser, Cotter, Lemmon, McDonald,
McLachlan, Peacock, Prendergast, Rogers,
Slater, Snowball, Solly, Webber and Wynne
have a fair chance of being re-elected unop-
posed to the Vic. Assembly. But there is
still time for surprises before nomination-
day.
When Conan Doyle unloads his crate of
spooks in Sydney it won’t be the first time
one of the family has stepped ashore here.
A brother was an Anglican minister in Eng-
land, and for health reasons migrated to
Australia a decade or two ago. ’Verting to
Rome, he lost his job, but found the pen
and the artist’s brush sufficed to scare off
the wolf. Awhile back he took the long trail,
leaving behind an equally clever daughter
who also ’verted to Rome and is now in a
convent in N. S. Wales. Another relative of
the spook merchant is Georgina Hedley,
wife of the bird, beast and blossom expert.
“8.J.” (London) : George Lambert, still
one of the most picturesque ■figures in Chel-
sea, which is crowded with people who
exploit enigmatical sartorial effects, is at
work designing the Australian Light Horse
memorial that is to be set up in the Casino
Gardens at Port
Said. A prelimi-
nary sketch shows
a group of plung-
ing horses, with an
Australian and a
Maoriland cavalry-
man in the fore-
ground and rf sym-
bol i e figure of
Death. The Casino
Gardens are in an
ideal position near
the entrance to the
Canal, and passen-
gers on boats com-
ing from England
will see first the
big statue of Fer-
dinand de Lesseps
pointing to his
completed job, and
then the monu-
ment to the men
wh» helped to save
the great work
from destruction.
GREGORY.
M.H.R., Deputy-
Leader Country
party.
Just-dead Edmund Kent Heales was the
only surviving son of Richard Heales, who
was Premier of Victoria in 1860-61, and
Minister of Lands under McCulloch —there
is a statuette of him in the old board-room
at the Lands Department. Edmund, the
son, took to banking, and rose to be chief
inspector of the Bank of Vic. lie was 67.
R. J. Stuart-Robertson, N. S. Wales
M.L.A., rejects the superstition that 13 is an
unlucky number. On the thirteenth anniver-
sary of his electiou to Parliament he got a
rise of £4 13s. a week, being made Chairman
of Committees.
Vic. Legislative Assembly had only three
changes in personnel since it was elected
two years and 10 months ago. Wallace re-
placed Elmslie (deceased), Pennington
ousted J. J. Hall (Hayseed’s organiser) on
petition, and Old stepped in when P. G.
Stewart went to the Federal "House of Reps.
John Gellibrand, Vic.’s new Police Com-
missioner. is proud of his name, but he
would.once have been glad to swap it for
something short like Lee or Hay. After the
S’African unpleasantness he put in a while in
charge of Boer War prisoners at St. Helena,
and in one week there he had to sign his
name 6000 times to various documents.
Modesto Varischetti, the Italian whom
diver Frank Hughes rescued on the ninth
day of his imprisonment in a flooded mine at
Bonnievale (W.A.), has gone where his pre-
server went last year. For six days before
the splendid climax Hughes had descended to
the 10t.h level and taken food to the
entombed Italian, risking his life at every
step. But he paid for his heroic exertions
with years of illness. And then poverty came.
Australia soon forgets.
In praise of a pilot who has weathered his
first storm: —
Barwell, Premier of South Aus., looks as if he will
go far. At college his girlish ways earned him
the nickname of Gertie, but when he got to the
’Varsity he showed there was some sting in him,
and his rousing speeches in the Law Debating
Society are still remembered. Admitted to the Bar
when just over 21, he began practising at Clare,
but soon moved to Port Pirie, then coming into
prominence, and there he was in partnership with
Percy Hague for nearly 20 'years. Elected to the
Assembly in 1915 for the farming district of Stan-
ley, he soon proved himself one of the most force-
ful debaters in the House; he became Attorney-
General in 1917 and Premier last year, being then
only a little over 40. Already in the handling of
his first political crisis he has shown energy and
resolution, and he is more personally popular than
his unemotional predecessor ever was. But whether
he has the shrewdness and knowledge of men which
made Peake such a power remains to be seen.
It used to be a habit at police head-
quarters in the other Australian capitals
whenever the criminal history of a French
crook was in question to ask Sydney for the
loan of Pierre Jules Rochaix. He knew the
lineaments and record of every recidiviste in
New Caledonia, and after he joined the N. S.
Wales force escapees from the French penal
settlement found the other points of the com-
pass healthier than the west, where lay Aus-
tralia. Rochaix went west himself last
week, at ti!). Though French on both sides
of the house, he was a Londoner born, but
he struck a blow for France in 1870.
Alfred Tate, for 30 years the most con-
spicuous-looking personage about the N.S.W.
Supreme Courts, died last week at 76. He
was keeper of the century-old lag-built pre-
mises at the top of King-street, next the
Mint, inhabited in modern times by the Clerk
of the Peace, Master in Lunacy and Arbi-
tration Court Judges. On finishing his job
thereabouts in the morning he used to climb
into uniform and mount guard or something
in the Banco Court further down. A trooper
in the 17th Lancers when a youth, the old
chap retained the soldierly bearing to the
end. Indeed he was the only perfect physical
replica of a Ouida cavalryman known tc
Australia. Darley when Chief Justice was
a great patron of Tate’s, whose tall, erect
figure, bearing many service medals, added
much to the pomp of the Full Court. Seated
one day in Dailey’s Court Tate fell asleep.
Waking from the nap he heard someone
talking and a bawled demand for silence
smothered the observations of the Bench.
“Call John Johnson,” said counsel, requiring
a witness secreted outside. Tate didn’t catch
the surname distinctly. But orders were
orders. Advancing majestically into the
corridor he thunderously summoned “John
Soanso” three several times. “No appear-
ance, yonner,” he reported. But Johnson
was already in the box.
Died at 84, Matilda Duff Harris, widow
of George Harris, of the Ultimo estate —
one of the crowded suburbs of Sydney is
now built upon it. Though her husband
was the eldest of a trio of sons of the
original holder, she was the last of the
generation to survive.
Mrs. Richards, widow of Thomas Rich-
ards, formerly N. S. Wales Government
printer, died a week or two ago. She was
a daughter of John Bell, engineer of the
first Sydney water scheme (at Botany), and
responsible also for the old Exhibition Build-
ing in Prince Alfred Park. He came this
way from Eygpt, where Mrs. Richards was
born.
Charles Elliott died last week in Adelaide,
after a lingering illness, aged only 56. He
was one of the best-known and best-liked
of the city’s journalists. Printing-ink was
in his blood: his father was proprietor of
the Southern Argus at Strathalbyn. Char-
lie got to the city early, and, after a few
years on the Register, spent the last 30 on
the Advertiser, most of the time in the
Parliamentary gallery.
Chief Secretary Baird, of Victoria, is
already getting busy in Ballarat on the
usual presumption that the early Baird gets
the worm. But, in a theatrical way of
speaking, there’s many a worm gets the bird,
and the fact that Labor isn’t going to select
a candidate against Lloyd Brind, the local
distiller, doesn’t make things happier for
Lawson’s colleague.
Russell Brown, Vic. Government Valuer,
who will retire in a few weeks, was the first
officer to shift up to the new quarters in
the Treasury Gardens from the old ones in
Queen-street. He had been only a few
weeks there when one morning in January,
1878, he saw most of his fellow-officers
handed blue envelopes containing the intima-
tion that they had been sacked overnight.
They were Black Wednesday victims. He
had been spared, and thereafter held on for
nearly 43 years.
Major Evans, whose name keeps cropping
up at the inquiry into certain phases of sol-
dier-settlement in N. S. Wales, comes from
Westralia. where he was Town Clerk of
North Fremantle, and aftewards of Cottes-
loe. In the West he had a knack of getting
involved in controversies, which habit has
followed him to N. S. Wales. Being an
Imperial reservist, he got into khaki in 1914,
and didn’t shed it until Fritz intimated that
he had had plenty.
Ex-Senator Teddy Needham, who lost his
seat (he had held it since 1906) last year,
will be a candidate for North Perth at the
Westralian elections next March. The youth-
ful Corboy, who succeeded John Forrest in
the representation of Swan and was ousted
by the dour Prowse, has intimated that
lilgarn will suit him. But there are four
Laborites in the selection ballot, and one of
them is A. A. Horan, who used to be member
for the district, and the miners and railway
men of Yilgarn have always had a kindness
for Horan. He is the sort of man who keeps
his friends in spite of the caprices of con-
stituencies, and his war service seems to have
rejuvenated him. /
The last testament of the late lawyer Pin-
cott, of Geelong, makes good reading. His
opinion of his own profession shines forth
in a threat that any legatee who wastes
money in litigation concerning the construc-
tion of his will shall forfeit any benefit or
interest that would otherwise have come to
him or her. Touching one of his sons the
testator said that if
he couldn’t make a
do of the dairy-farm his
father helped him to, he
had better break away
from the “white slavery”
on the land and “take to
politics.” Also the cyni-
cal testator desired that
his family should bury
him at the least possible
expense, refrain from
wearing any habiliments
of woe, and leave his
grave bare of monument,
tombstone' or railing.
Surely on the resting-
place of this self-effacing
solicitor wild flowers will
blossom, and smell sweet
in the dust.
R. McGregor, M.L.A.
for Ballarat East, Chair-
man of Committees.
The Gallery begins to take notice: —
;Dr. Earle Page, M.H.lt. for Cowper (N.S.W.),
strikes one as a misfit in the Hayseed party. Plainly
no cocky in appearance and much brighter mentally
than the bulk of his colleagues, he further emphasises
the difference by a pleasant man-of-the-world manner
and a genial schoolboy smile. He is alleged to have
won his place in the party on the strength of his
farming interests on the North Coast, but “he stands
higher in that district on account of his surgery,
whereof some unusual yarns are*told; and his public
spirit has overflowed for years. Politically he is more
radical than his votes admit, and he sometimes makes
a bright patch in a dull world by standing u y >
briskly to W. M. Hughes.
“Major R. M. Drummond, R.A.F., D.S.O.
and bar, is a modest youth who in
Egypt, Palestine and Syria was known to
everyone, the enemy included, as “Peter.”
When a German flier crashed on the Medi-
terranean front he was accustomed to ask
(when he was capable of asking) if “Peter”
had done it. And if “Peter” didn’t happen
to be in the picture, he invariably said that
he would like to meet “Peter.” For the gay
and chivalrous daring of “Peter” was a favor-
ite topic of conversation even at German and
Austrian mess-tables. “Peter” is a Westra-
lian, the son of a Perth merchant. Since the
Turk threw in the towel he has been enforc-
ing the pax Britannica among the turbulent
heathen of Central Africa ; but he has just
dropped into Sydney again.
“75” (London) : In Tam Mackenzie, tvho
has just retired from the High Commissioner-
ship, which he held for eight years, Maori-
land has lost a London representative who
was something more than ornamental. Tam,
who has been explorer, pastoralist and sun-
dry other things (including Prime Minister
of Maoriland), was a worker, and yet found
time to figure in the English public eye and
press probably more than any overseas repre-
sentative since Reid. Also he was accessible.
Maorilanders in London just blew in on
him ; whereas Andrew Fisher sits in splen-
did isolation in Australia House, surrounded
by flunkeys and pink tape. Mac is at present
holiday-making among his native heather
and leaves for the Dominion in September.
Broken limbs are a hobby with pioneer
aviator W. E. Hart, who made numerous
flights in N. S. Wales in a prehistoric ’plane.
He has snapped both arms and both legs in
crashes, not to mention various ribs; and
the other day, in cranking a car, he frac-
tured one of his arms again. Nevertheless,
he still has thoughts of getting back to wings,
with new stunts he picked up in U.S.A.
Among the soldiers who are going over
the top at the Bananaland elections is Col.
Pat Currie, who represents the Soldiers’
party and will try to make Mick Kirwan,
Labor member for North Brisbane, take the
count. The Irish-Australian Currie is a
school-teacher who has made things warm
for the errant youngster in China, Japan
and the Philippines, as well as Australia. In
the Great War he collected several wounds
besides the D. 5.0., Croix de Guerre and
C.M.G. His dad struck Queensland first at
Gympie; and a brother wore the municipal
’possum-skins in South Brisbane.
THE EGOTIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What folly ’tis for men to yearn
For splendors that shall be
When I am dust within an urn,
And naught shall pleasure me!
The tunnel that will link the lands
In Nineteen Ninety-Five
Is an absurdity; it stands
For wasteful superfluity.
For then, in fact, I shall not be
Alive.
Why weave, my friends, your spacious dreams
Of humankind's uplift,
Of men raised o'er the subtle schemes
Of jarring creeds, adrift
In rosy atmospheres of bliss,
Each to the other dear ?
Your logic, gentlemen, I miss;
It's plain to every sense I shan’t
(In very truth, I know / can’t )
Be here.
That generous living edifice,
That scientific law
Of bland perfection, I must miss.
How can you give a straw
For this and that, while in the void
1 serve my senseless lot ?
Far better may you be employed.
So vain it seems—-a rosy sky,
A perfect world, and all where I
Ain not.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


V'..:
■
1%
■
I
V :
«i
■>,.
■ 1
mm
mi
"I
p
K5l
'
w£'^§sM
Iwww"
:-
** ! '**v
Hi
’r'V : :
■*»• 4*/.
.
SHE
f lilM
'
iHEi
Hi
:- iV '
1
i
H
■ SB
J
'
■
•%.a
SgS. &8K SS-SSKgSKS; X'W&g.
.
siipp
m
i
. mk
. .
a
■
m»whb
ni
’J ?!
« »■■
A
k V
TU
|jj|f||Ji
■ ....
■
Si::::
... J
:■
TOBACCO
CIVIC
THE
STANDARD
PIPE
«o°


a Fair tresses man's imperial race ensnare ,
And beauty draws us with a single hair." —Pope.
Save your Hair
and double its
beauty !
11
V
You can have a wealth of long, curly lustrous hair, irre-
spective of age. Successful treatment of the hair is pos-
sible and pleasing by using JOHN STRANGE
WINTER’S HAIR FOOD, the popular English pre-
paration. Always on sale at chemists and drapers.
J.S.W. HAIR FOOD
Oily, 3/9. Non-oily, 4/9.
INSTITUTE V
Dept. A.
ROLLED
GOLD,
£l/1/-
y*
Complete
with
Case,
£l|l/ :
We do not cater for any diseases
of the eyes. We simply correct
failing sight, which sets in at
about the age of 40.
Write for particulars and
our self-measureinent form,
•which will be sent on re-
ceipt of a post-card to
No money asked.
Pay post office
when spectacles
are delivered.
Box 702 G.P.0., Sydney, N.SAV.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management cf Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
MINCHINBURY
• “Ex-Missionary”: Having had some ex-
perience of gaol work I say that when
sympathetic visitors call on the hunger-strik-
ing prisoner the best way to carry the soup or
beef-tea is in a long flexible tube wound
round the body.
* * * *
The extraordinary story told by “Red”:—
A most shocking act of wanton waste occurred in
Westralia shortly after the Prince’s visit. When
the Royal railway coach was fitted, it was equipped
with a beautiful service of crockery. After Edward
had gone no further use remained for the articles;
at least, that is what the railway people thought.
Consequently they ordered that the service should
be destroyed. The workman detailed to do the
smashing raised a mild protest, so an official was
posted over him to superintend and see that Bill
Worker didn’t spare the relics. Apparently the
Government knew of no charities sufficiently worthy
to merit the gift of Edward’s cups and saucers.
Bill did his insane job and took the bits home for
use as shell grit!
* * * *
t When Captain Euan Dickson, the soldier-
airman, hopped across Cook’s Strait in less
than an hour, one more bogey about flying
in Maoriland was buried. Wind-streams
and air-pockets above these stormy waters
have been held up as potential obstacles to
the safe crossing of the Strait that Captain
Cook said unkind things about. It was taking a
risk to make the flight in August, but Russell
had arrived in Welling-
ton from Auckland
in a big De Haviland
machine, and there
was no telling whether
he might not go across
t o Marlborough for
an afternoon joy-ride.
So Dickson stole
away from Christ-
church on a misty
morning. He was at
Kaikoura before any-
one knew he was on
the way. Blenheim
was taken by surprise,
too, for he raced the
press message. He
stayed 40 minutes for
lunch and was in
Wellington at 2 o’clock
that afternoon. When
he left Blenheim he
said,he would be back
th at night at 5
o’clock. But he could
not escape from the
lionising throng in
the windy city, which
was excited at having
two airmen from opposite points of the com-
pass to entertain at the same time.
* ♦ * *
“Whitehall”: The cabled .announcement
that Lord Hardinge has been appointed
ambassador at Paris—the blue ribbon of the
British Diplomatic Service—is another indi-
cation of the impossibility of stopping a man
who is popular socially in London. As Vice-
roy of India he was the central figure in the
Mesopotamian horror. A Royal Commission
divided the blame for the unreadiness which
led to the death of thousands of men before
and after Kut between him and Sir William
Meyer. The Times remarked of the latter
that he possessed “neither the intention nor
the spirit of a loyal British subject”; and
the Commission actually went so far as to
recommend a legal inquiry into the conduct
of the culprits. Not only did the Govern-
ment scout the Commission’s recommenda-
tions, but it brought Lord Hardinge back
to the post of permanent Under-Secretary
of State for Foreign Affairs, which he had
occupied before he went to India in 1910. He
is not a man of marked ability, though
his charm, valor and good looks are very
marked indeed. He was as popular in India
(where, nevertheless, he was wounded in
the course of an attempt on his life) as Lord
Chelmsford is disliked ; and in his younger
days he was one of the finest cross-country
riders in England. A sportsman and a
gentleman—those are his claims to distinc-
tion, and they have served him well.
A real girl, as anyone might
SEE.
"She's such a natural and unaffected girl!”
“Yes, there doesn’t seem very much put on
about her!”
“Spare Corp”: McCann was fairly raw
when he first went on guard duty, and the
guard n.c.o. s carelessly failed to enlighten
him about the terrors of the various
rounds. _ The C. 0., a restless individual
who was in the habit of drifting about unex-
pectedly, came along when McCann was
leaning easily against a wall, his hands m
Pockets and a cigarette in his mouth.
H ith a scrambling effort Mac discarded the
fag and recovered Ins rifle. But when he
saw the colonel before him he relaxed again
„„ j , ~ ,
and retneved his smoke. Struth . . he
said in a confidential tone, I thought you
was the sergeant!”
* * * »
“Copy Boy”; The Jean Hops who were
introduced to London during the war have
come to stay; are, in fact, being increased
in numbers. They wear neat blue uniforms,
black belts and sun helmets, though the Lord
knows there is no sun from which they re-
quire piotection . They are specially charged
with, guarding the morals of the young and
keeping of their own sex on the
straight and narrow path. Of course, wicked
yarns aie told about ,them. It is alleged
that one on duty in a park at night came
i(^T° SS - a , s P. oon . m £ couple and suggested:
Now, isn t it time yoil went off to bed ! ’
_** * *
E.A.M. : At the hangars near Arras we
had a young Yankee, doctor turned on to us.
We were all Australians, and this fresh pro-
duct of the U.S.A. .medical schools amused
us not only with, his expressive slang, but
also, by his easy-going professional ways. His
failing was an insatiable desire to be taken
up in the air, and he talked about it until
it became the joke of the squadron. Finally
we hatched a plot. The very next time he
asked he was fitted out with full flying kit
and taken several thousand feet up. Then the
conspirator in charge started stunting. He did
the fluttering leaf. He turned, twisted, fell,
rose, and fell again. Finally he landed. We
had to lift the doc. out of the ’bus. He had
been violently airsick, had begged to be
brought down to earth again, and so acute
had been his distress that he had cried like a
child. But he was game. Seeing us all
looking on,'grinning, he turned and addressed
the audience: “Boys, I guess I left my
stomach up there!” He was interrupted by
a gale of laughter. '“But you can bet your
bottom dollar I’m going up again to bring it
down !” His speech finished in a storm of
cheers, and the Australian-American Entente
was firmly cemented.
“A.G.”: That Knibbs’s figures for V.D.
fatalities are all misleading is hot Knibbs’s
fault, That excellent figure-engineer has to
rely for his death rates on death certificates.
Now, death certificates are, in the great
majority of cases, given by the attending
doctor to the relatives or to the undertaker;
and if any cause is ascribed which can be
regarded as a reflection on the deceased or
the family there is apt to be a man-sized row.
Even the most vigorous Dr. Scarem will hesi-
tate before he signs up an adult member of
a good-paying family as “Syphilis and
General Paralysis
of the Insane,” or
an infant one as
“Congenital Syph-
ilis.” So he pre-
serves the respect-
ability of the
family by return-
ing them as “Con-
gestion of the
Brain” and “Con-
genital Debility,”
thereby keeping the
relatives on his
books. Deaths
really due to the
effects of gon-
orrhoea, alcoholism
and even tubercu-
losis are apt to be
camouflaged in the
same way for pay-
ing patients.
“Clubbies” and hos-
pital cases do not
matter, of course,
and the great bulk
of the statistician’s
material is limited
t. o them. I) r.
Scarem often
would sooner not
lie about these
things, but he is
not in the business
for philanthropic
reasons, an d h e
gets nothing for a
death certificate.
The remedy is to
provide by law
for a special
death . certificate
posted direct
to the principal .statistical authority under
confidential cover and carrying a small fee.
A certificate merely stating that the death
was due to natural causes would meet all
local requirements.
* * * *
South Australian law clerks had to sit
down and fan themselves with briefs after
reading a notice recently pinned on the board
in the office of the Master of the Supreme
Court. The document was a pathetic appeal
from “your unfortunate colleagues,” the
officials and clerks of the Austrian Law
Courts, who, so they said, are forced to scrape
along on incomes ranging from 16s. to 325.
per month. In modern Europe that means
starvation, and a (late) proud enemy wound
up like this:
Encouraged by the numerous proofs of the noble
generosity of the British people, we ask you to
forget the past war, for which we are not to blame,
and to support us with food and clothing, or in any
other way you may think fit.
Apparently our “unfortunate colleagues”
don’t quite realise that the war into which
they forced us cost us a bit, too.
* * * *
From a southern laboratory:—
A discovery which may have very far-reaching
results has been made at the Commonwealth Serum
Institute. It had already been shown by Abel and
others that a dog bled almost to the limit could be
restored to good health by re-injecting the red cells
of the blood suspended in Locke’s solution, the
volume equalling the original amount of blood
withdrawn. But Dr. Penfold’s method (Dr. Pen-
fold is the director of the Institute) does not require
any Locke’s solution; the red cells are put back
straight after the plasma or fluid has been drawn
off. Under the old method of bleeding horses
to obtain sera not more than eight or ten litres
of blood could be taken from each horse a week,
and even at that it would need about every other
month as a spell. In making sera the red cells
are not needed, and used to be poured down the sink.
This struck Dr. Penfold as a waste, and he started
putting them back, with first-class results. In July
one horse gave 60 litres of blood and another 58 in
10 days,' and both finished fresh and did not want
.any spell. The point is that the horse can easily
make more fluid but can’t make more red cells. How
far the new method can be applied to the human
subject has yet to be seen. Maybe it will be pos-
sible some day to take out the red cells, clean and
brush them, and put them back. The amount of
convalescent serum available for treating cases of
disease has in the past been strictly limited because
a convalescent could not well be bled to any extent
worth mentioning. But by the new method the
use of convalescent serum may be tried on an exten-
sive scale. In the case of blood-poisoning good
might perhaps result from removing the plasma and
returning the red cells in gum solution. These
and many other possibilities have still to be worked
out.
(Continued on page 18.)
WHEN HELL WENT BOLSHEVIK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a man with scarlet eyes
And whiskers burning day and night.
The decent folk of Hell turned white
The fateful day that saw him rise;
•Up went the mercury six degrees,
So heating was his angry scorn,
And in his flaming beard was born
A scorching, parching, blood-red breeze.
He stalked about and glared at us,
And told us we were fearful fools
To be a bloated demon’s tools;
He really made an awful fuss,
And we poor damned who long had been
Content to burn and boil and toast
Were sadly shocked to hear him boast
That we should have a change of scene.
It was our joy that we had learnt
To be respectable at' last;
The times of sinful pride had past,
And we were glad, if somewhat burnt;
We had a stake in Hell, you see,
And so we didn’t like his style—
He merely smiled his savage smile
And spat out cinders in his glee.
We decent sinners who had stood
As pillars of the State on earth
Shivered to see his evil mirth,
And knew the fellow meant no good;
And then he built a flag one day—
A flag of cinders flaming red—
And swiftly some vile gospel spread
Among the damned beneath his sway.
They were the folk who were not nice—
The murderers and thieves and scum
Who in the past were deaf and dumb
Because our pride was cold as ice;
But now they muttered and they swore,
And brandished torches and hot coals.
Thus grew the mad revolt of souls
Which shook our kingdom to its core.
This mob, this rabble, swept along
And gathered strength. at every stride,
And all our warnings they defied.
They grew in heat —a dreadful throng
BEFORE AND AFTER.
THE BACHELOR: “ Does your wife treat you
the same as she did before you were
married?”
THE MARRIED ONE: “ Not exactly. Before
we were married, when I displeased
her she refused to speak to me.”
That stopped at nothing, for they said
The devils were oppressors. My!
No wonder that a mournful cry
Rose up from all the nicer dead.
They paid no heed to us; they sang
Their scarlet songs with mad delight;
Imagine how we felt that night—-
The hobs of Hades spat and rang
To threats against high Satan’s -skin!
Who could have thought that we should know
In our warm boarding-house below
Such deep and sacrilegious sin?
To Satan’s hall at last they came
And surged with clamor through the place.
They threw live coals into his face
(It really was a crying shame,
He looked so broken and forlorn) ;
They tore him down and hurled him out,
And all the decent and devout
Cursed the grey day that saw them born.
With Satan order and routine
Were cast aside for good and aye.
The whiskered man swept on his way,
A thing most hateful and obscene.
No man could call a hob his own;
The oil-vats, too, were all upset;
The few remaining flames were set
Aside for Whiskers’ mob alone.
Then all the decent damned began
To weep such tears as ne’er before—
They wept and wept, then wept some more
As only mournful lost souls can.
The tears of centuries poured down
In cascades, torrents, rivers, seas;
For nothing could our woe appease,
And nothing could our sorrow drown.
Hell’s gone to wrack! The savage mob
Has shattered it to little bits,
And proper’ folk have lost their wits,
And also every inch of hob.
At time of writing there’s no doubt
That Hell must shortly cease to be,
For no one stokes, and tears pour free,
And all the fires will soon be out.
ON THE SPOT.
DALE COLLINS.


miilliiiiiiiiniiiii/iiiiiiiniiiiillll)lillllllt|
: -'•*. -r /. v>:
=U]!lllllllllfllllllllllllllfllll|U?
% =
I
■ '
rtSESIb.
&
&
■»
111111111!=
S
Ifc 1
MnSs
8S
DEWAKS
WHISKY
Truly good Whisky must
possess these three essentials-
CHARACTER—REPUTATION
MATURITY.
Character. —Good whisky possesses character
as men possess personality. It is that subtle
charm of flavour —crispness without harshness,
softness without weakness—so indicative of
perfect purity and divine distillation that has
moulded the character of Dewar's and earnt
the appreciation of mankind.
Reputation. —Man never went far without a
good reputation, and neither does whisky. The
reputation of Dewar's has for its foundation long
years of irresistible quality, constant and peerless,
bringing the glorious gifts of splendid health to
the body and rare contentment to the mind.
Maturity. —Age ever did command respect. In
Dewar's to-day is to be found all the experience
of many generations in the arts of blending and
distillation, which has for its end the production
of a whisky—always ripely matured —worthy-
of its universal designation as
THE SUPREME SPIRIT.


The Appeal of Quality
The appeal of Quality was never so forcible as it is to-day—
particularly m Diamond Jewellery. Talented artists created these
designs, and the cleverest Diamond Experts selected the Stones.
Call at any of the Stewart Dawson Establishments and inspect their
befng added^to 16111 Diam ° n<l Desi S ns . which is continually
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS. Eieht in . T ,
AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN
HATTON GARDEN, LONDON. '
WRITE FOR LATEST CATALOGUE.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.iaum.) Ltd.
The World=renowned Jewellery Firm.
E6o6—Fine Quality Diamond Set Platinum and 15-ct.
Gold Flexible Bangle, £37/10/-
*^l7B—Choice Design Fine
Diamond and Platinum
Circle Brooch, £l7/10/-
K992—Fine Diamond and
Platinum Circle Brooch,
£lB/10/-
E6oB—'Very Artistic Design Platinum and 15-ct. Gold
Flexible Bangle, set Fine Quality Diamonds, £35
Best Quality Case supplied with each Article
The latest move in the matter of handling
tourists in Maoriland is the formation of a
co. to run an airline passenger-service from
Timaru to Mount Cook. The distance by
road is ldO miles, and hitherto the trippers
nave been whirled to the Hermitage and back
in motor-cars. From the Hermitage to any
ot the snow areas is more of a climb than
the average tourist expects. On the airline
the run from the sea to the snow is under 60
miles, and the joy-riders may hover over jas-
per lakes and virgin snows without any effort
at all. A trial trip was made from Christ-
FUNNY ENOUGH WITHOUT.
THE PAINTER : “One advantage we painters
have over you black-and-white chaps is
that we don't have to think of something
funny to put underneath our pictures.”
THE BLACK-AND-WHITE: “Of course not!
They don’t need anything.”
church to Mount Cook some months ago.
P ne t°ok Mt. Cook’s 32,349 feet of
solid height in its stride, and dropped like a
dove of peace on the front lawn of the Her-
mitage in time for dinner. The machines
for the new service are to be supplied by the
Government from the assorted lot of sky
expresses which were given to Bill Massey
as his share of the war indemnity.
* * * •»
“Spare Corp.”: Some queer yarns about
extra gratuities and benefits are circulating
amongst the Diggers. One of them is that
Britain will presently waft along £5O apiece
tor all Australian soldiers who served over-
seas, and my friend Mick is filled with weird
expectancy. Mick cashed his bond by buying
xoO worth of furniture, which he sold again to
a total stranger for about £2O. Having spent
the £2O and the cash he got with the furniture
he is wondering whether he should wait for
the British benefaction or go to work
Another curious belief, prevalent chiefly
amongst Diggers’ wives, is that the Repatri-
a|l°c1 in D p Pai l? len i is waitiu S with a bonus
ot ±lO for the first child of every soldier
married since the war, and the Repat. has
had dozens of inquiries for the form on which
the application is to be made.
* * * *
The struggle to devise some law under
which one five-roomed house will be two
five-roomed houses
without there being
any more houses takes
curious shapes. One
idea is that of the fer-
ti 1 e Dr. Maloney,
M.H.R., who suggests
that, if a landlord or
landlady or agent asks
a prospective tenant if
he or she has any chil-
dren, that house-owner
or house-letter shall
be furnished with a
week’s gaol for the
first offence and more
afterwards. But this
won’t prevent the
applicant voluntarily
alleging that there is
no family in order to
get ahead of a rival.
To put a house-mother
in gaol for opening up
the subject would •be
too harsh. Anyhow,
the doctor’s inspira-
tion won’t diminish the
house shortage, though
it may make a different distribution of
the few shacks there are. One week’s
gaol for the people, if they can be
found, who so restrict the number of
learners in the building trade that
there aren’t nearly enough builders to
supply houses, and another week for
the hard-hearted folk who won’t work
on Saturday mornings no matter how
many children may be homeless, might
perhaps do something; but Maloney
is a tender-hearted man who wouldn’t put a
caterpillar in gaol unless he suspected it of
owning property.
* * * »
“Henry H.”: When I read of an “enclosed”
nun drudging without pay for 17 hours a day
in order that she may go to Heaven, I think
what irony it would be if, when she went to
Heaven, she found there was no such place.
*****
“Naming”: The secretary to a N. S.
scales State Minister was compelled to re-
main in town with his chief on a day when
his wife, after weeks of angling, had landed
the elusive “lady help.” For months he had
slept on the verandah and his wife in a back
room, but when the lady yelp arrived she
took charge of the back room, and Mrs.
Secretary shifted to the best bedroom. At
H p.m. an overworked secretary dashed into
the back room and gathered a nightdress and
the lady within it into his arms. The screams
of the astonished yelp awoke Mrs. Secretary
from her slumbers, and rushing into the
room she explained the situation to a dazed
but honest man. who decided that a wife
with a sense of humor is the sort of blessing
that steers many domestic troubles from the
Divorce Court.
“Gundaghi”: In Palestine firewood was
always scarcet But the Digger must have
his tea, so a grain-bag wangled (no mean
feat) or souvenired (equally difficult) from
a miserly, Q.M. often made the billy boil. By
tearing it up into small shreds and slowly
feeding the fragments to a flame, 20 or more
quarts (empty fruit tins) were frequently
boiled. The splinters from a broken ’plane
propeller (30 seconds after crashing in one
instance at Kahm) were another source of
firewood. I vividly recollect a wet Christ-
mas (1917) when we camped near Esdud
(the Biblical Ashdod) alongside a Scotch
artillery battery. I remarked on the appear-
ance of a large, cheerful fire in our transport
lines. In the morning the Scotties discovered
that an ammunition limber was A.W.L.
Spare Corp”: The need for officers who
were prepared to be unpopular was brought
forcibly to my mind when Fritz had been
halted, and neither he nor we knew whether
the halt was permanent. Our platoon (it
had been smashed to pieces during its pre-
vious visit) moved into the line with a
crowd of reinforcements. They had not been
taught even to fasten their equipment so
as to prevent rattling; and we moved like
a walking tinware-shop. As if this wasn’t
had enough, the new men, aided by the liquor
they had mopped up at a deserted estaminet,
insisted upon whistling and singing to show
that they were not afraid. The officer who
ought to have been in charge seemed scared
of being thought scared, and he let the vaude-
ville people have their way. Fritz must
have thought that a picnic-party was arriv-
ing. But we struck one of those amazing
lulls which sometimes happened on the Front;
and, amongst other things, a man hopped
over the top to chase back two wandering
cows that were drifting towards the Hun
lines; also, an unofficial party buried a dead
Hun who was smelling rather offensively!
Then one of the youngsters spread himself
in the sun, in the low crop of a bean-field,
to read a magazine. On the second day
r ritz awoke and simultaneously, shattered
the peace and the newcomers’ delusion
that it was a picnic. There was something
grimly amusing in comparison with their
former jauntiness about the silence nnd
THE HIGHER EDUCATION.
"Now that we’re engaged you must he quite
frak and tell me everything .”
"Yes, dearest. But there are some things
that I don't know yet.”
haste with which they moved out to support
several men short, when relief came. But the
Hun wasn’t as nasty to our crowd as he
was to the men who relieved us. Half of
them became casualties in 24 hours; and
then a new position was hastily dug,- which
saved the rest. Our officer was a fine fellow,
and had plenty of pluck; but if he had had
the capacity for saying a firm word in sea-
son some men who will never leave France
might be in Australia to-day.
* * * *
“Ex-Dig.” : In several cases other Diggers
have repaired the wrong
done to “Blighty brides”
by former A.I.F. soldiers.
A girl who came to Aus-
tralia thinking she was
the wife of the man who
had gone through the mar-
riage ceremony with her,
only to find that he had a
previous wife waiting for
him, met a military pal of
the deceiver after she had
sundered relations with
him ; and the other Digger mar-
ried her. But this sort of gal-
lantry is sometimes misplaced.
An ex-Digger, moved by admira-
tion for a woman who, friend-
less and penniless though she
was, scornfully repudiated the
waster who had brought her to
Australia under the false pre-
tence that he was single, led
her to the altar himself—and
discovered that his high-souled
tragedy queen had omitted to
mention the husband and two
children she held left behind in Battcrson.
* * * .
Another Australian goes abroad for the
appreciation that his own country withholds *
hike other prophets, Dr. Colin Mackenzie is not
without honor save in his own country. His efforts
to work up interest in the comparative anatomy of
Australia’s wonderful “fossil fauna,” and in the
bearing on medicine and surgery of a proper scienti-
fic study of the subject, were, for the most part,
ignored. When before the Royal Society of Vic’
he read his paper about the discovery of three new
glands in the platypus and the possible practical
bearings thereof, it caused hardly a ripple on the dead
waters, though Professor Osborne did pay a hand-
some tribute to his work. But when Mackenzie
got to London and talked to his fellow-members of
the Royal College of Surgeons, he stirred up real
inteicst, and already there is talk of his discoveries
marking a new era in medical science. Professor
Arthur Keith, who worked with Dr. Mackenzie in
bringing out a new edition of Treves’s Anatomy, is
as keen as mustard on the work, and will see to it
that the College does what it can to push it along.
Keith is even reckless enough to hope that wealthy
Australians will support Dr. Mackenzie in his re-
search work on the fauna of their own country.
To many medical men, of course, Mackenzie’s
ideas and theories seem absurd. But to the men
of routine and of stereotyped minds great dis-
coveries have always seemed absurd till they became
truisms. One of Mackenzie’s theories is based on
the fact that the ductless sex gland found in the
p aty pus has also been discovered in the marsupials.
In the marsupials the period of gestation is short,
and the young are born at a comparatively imma-
ture stage. With human beings one great trouble
is that the head of the infant at birth tends to
increase with civilisation, while the pelvis of the
mother (probably with the wearing of corsets as one
ieason) tends to become smaller. Dr. Mackenzie
has an idea that a complete study of these glands
and their secretions may reveal a means of reduc-
ing the period of gestation to fewer than nine
months, to the great advantage of the mother and
without any harm to the child. In many other
ways Mackenzie holds that we can profit by the
vast laboratory of the marsupials in which Nature
has carried out so many experiments.
* * * *
“Birdie” : The aeroplane stunts planned for
Peace Loan purposes in Tasmania were de-
clared off owing to the two Avros crashing on
trial spins. Captain Lucas at Launcestou
and Captain Cummings, D.F.C., at Hobart,
both came croppers. The letter was carrying
Marjorie, daughter of Henry Jam Jones,
when he hit a telegraph-post while landing
with a faulty engine. No one was hurt in
either buster, but Cummings's brother had his
right arm smashed by a propeller when
starting the captain’s machine. Both acci-
dents were in landing, and so was the one
which befell Lieut. Long at Wynyard last
year. The Speck will need ironing out before
it will be an ideal place to put down ’planes.
Iveith Smith, on his way through, said he
saw only one place that was in any way
suitable for a regular landing ground.
* * * *
“Fag”: By a process of inversion as scien-
tific as it is beautiful, the Sydney flapper
puts on a complexion to match her frock.
Thus if her dress is brown, her complexion
will be brown; if she encases her limbs in
mauve, her cheeks will be of the same hue;
and if her color-scheme is heliotrope, helio-
trope is the face-smear she employs. So
many frocks, so many complexions: this is
the explanation, simple yet sufficient, of an
interesting feminine mystery that has caused
hundreds of cabhorses to shy. Complexion-
building must be an arduous business when a
girl has a well-filled wardrobe, but the Syd-
ney flapper never wearies of well-doing. She
recruits her flagging powers by going to
the pitchers and scoffing icecream by the
pint. Winter or summer icecream is her
principal nutriment; and her favorite ejacu-
lation, which expresses indifferently (1)
surprise, (2) delight, (3) amazement. (4)
anger, (5) derision and (6) consternation, is
Hoo. gee!” I have forgotten the pictures
.FEMININE WISDOM.
“Knowledge is power, you know.”
“Of course it is, provided you have it about
the right girl.”
I saw at a Pitt-street theatre one freezing
winter night; but I remember that I waded
to, my seat through a sea of icecream and
that “Hoo, gees!” went off like pip-squeaks
in a lively sector. To see a Sydney damsel
remove a length of icecream from her car-
mined lips and rip out a tumultuous “Hoo,
gee!” is to feel that one has not lived in
vain.
THE FLYING AGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pi ogress in the designing of man-power aero-
planes has Deen so rapid since the war that it is
not unreasonable to suppose that in the course of a
\ery lew years practically all men and women will
Oc -lying, and providing their own power.”
The time is nigh when you and I
Will feathers have to fly with;
Then right across the summer sky
Our pinions we’ll try with
Our nicest girl. Then smith and earl
Will never dream of hoofing,
And landing feet will sadly curl
Our most expensive roofing.
When Mr. Brown sets off for town,
He claps a pair of wings on,
And calls for Johnson, sailing down,
IV ho bag and brolly slings on, '
And joins the flight through cloud-rack bright,
With countenance seraphic,
Upon x some neighbor’s head to light,
Who’s blocking up the traffic.
Then Mistress Con. will smartly don
Her plumes and go off humming
With Mistress Nell, her dove-tail on—
It’s green and most becoming.
.The two will flock where on the Block
Aerial crowds are grouping,
The other flighty wives to shock
With their most graceful looping.
Dames wide-awake to wing will take
And do a bit of shopping,
To get two pounds of bladebone steak—
No danger of their flopping.
’Twill matter not if milk and pot
Be dropped a fearful distance;
Pedestrians will be a lot
Unworthy of existence.
Our sports will be delightful; we
Will flirt in cloudy cover,
And if our wife should chance to see
We’ll parachute our lover.
A plane that’s prime the higher clime
Will spread for May and Bertie.
’Tis well that Adam did not time
Man’s fall for Nineteen-thirty.
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


Cutting the GUESSWORK out of Feeding.
meggott
MEGGITTrfMEGGITTIT ft
(ATTif fooq |
MEGGITT LT. D
PARRAM>
/AEGGIX
feff? EGGITTtT MEGGITTr
k J J-JORSE_FOOD
TO'J
I j,if <^i tCTUßt o
jOGITT L TO
WRAMATTA
MEGGITT U.°
PARRAMATTA,
MEGGITTr [MEGGITa
popw food |
'll \
v Ji\ JyZrT ITO
/AEGGITT \Zfl//]\ /AE£G] TTU
,RRAMA]
' y ////////wm
Q j jill
Back of @ Stock Foods is the experience of our Experts,
Chemists and Veterinary Surgeon, plus the Endings of Scientific
research.
All our representatives are practical feed experts, competent to
advise on scientific feeding and its application to local conditions.
Each has complete understanding of food values, the advan-
tages of the balanced ration and superiority of ground food over
unground. They are specialists on feeds and feeding values.
Progress and produce more.
Your stock MUST produce more if your feeding is conducted on sound principles.
Increase production.
The advice of our experts throughout Australia is at your disposal on request.
If you are getting satisfactory results, these can be increased by improved feeding methods.
Our operations extend from the Leeuwin to the Gulf.
Our travellers are not particularly concerned with the selling of hJgJ) Specialised * Stock Foods, but the
utilisation of those foods. Attention to that principle has resulted in permanent friends, who always specify ggj
Stock Foods are required.
proper
when
WRITE FOR BOOKLET ON SCIENTIFIC FEEDING TO STOCK FOODS DEPARTMENT A.
Agents Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
King Street Perth* Messrs. Clarkson, Ltd., Bundle Street, Adelaide; Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co., Queen Street,
Brisbane* Messrs F W Heritage & Co., Hobart and Launceston; Messrs. Johnston & Co., Featherston Street,
Wellington, N.Z.;’ The National Dairy Association of N.Z., Panama Street, Wellington, N.Z.*
[JNStrooiiMqt
ttEGGITT U.°
PARRAMATTA
OUe boy on the bag
guarantees quality”
HEAD OFFICE ‘LG KING ST 6'Yim^(w J rks:Pamma«a)
UNSEedoiim&u
m
/A EGG ITT L TO
PARRAMATTA
tAeJhoy on the boo
guaran tees cjuality


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident U Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAT) OFFICE—
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS' FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL ADELAIDE.
in
1
mini ‘hnjffi
mm
r >
uteri///)
W
l
«$s
Hotel
8/<
TARIFF:
8/6 Bed & Breakfast
C.R.Kenp
Pr»opi*iel-of*
45 swanstonshJ
a Melbourne f
King George IV
lul' u v JR, WHISKY
theTOP NOTCH’scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Boro-Belle” : I saw two 9ft. crocs, have
a spar on the bank of the Prosperine River (Q.„).
The disturbance' was apparently due to both claiming
the same locality for an incubator. Clever footwork
was an outstanding feature of the scrap, as the croc,
fights with both ends. With his jaw full of glisten-
ing white ivories he is out to chew his antagonist’s
forepaw, while the tail is powerfully swung like a
heavily-loaded sandbag in an endeavor apparently
to capsize the other. This method Of fighting brings
them practically end on (snout to snout) all the
time. The snapping of the crocs.’ jaws throughout
the row resembled sharp rifle reports. As the spot
was some feet above high-water mark the ground was
dry and the dust kicked up sometimes prevented me
from refereeing. At one period the two submarines
were absolutely still for six minutes —it may have
been an interval —and I was just wondering if they'd
fallen asleep when snap went their jaws and one
actually fastened on to the other’s nose. That must
have constituted a knock-out, as the croc, with the
squeezed nose backed away and slid down the bank.
Some time later the other croc, went down the bank,
too, but minus his overcoat and chewing department.
The lot realised £l5 for the referee.
* * * #
“Ragar” : Re Western Papuan methods of
cooking kaikai. “Baba” (B. 19/8/’2O) has missed
it when he says they only bake, roast and broil. They
boil certain items on the daily menu, and did so
long before civilised methods and utensils came in.
One of their most tasty dishes is alligator foot!,
which is invariably boiled, the saucepan being the
giant helmet-shell which is found in plenty round
and about Steven Island, some 15 miles south of
Daru. These shells at one time were in great demand
by the Papuan natives, and were traded with the
Steven Islanders, and occasionally also fought for.
The shell is chipped out, the entire spiral, etc., being
removed, leaving only the thick and heavy outer
part. This holds almost as much as an ordinary
bucket, and takes no hurt from the fire. The Paps
can get on quite well without the trader’s cheap
hardware to cook kaikai in.
* * ♦ *
“Harry J”: A millionaire on his night
out may feel a certain degree of independence; out
the dinkum thing belongs to the bushman. I was
travelling with a hard worker, hard drinker and
hard case altogether, and we left the main road
and followed a bush track for eight miles, keen on
tlie scent of a talked-of job. Arrived at the home-
stead, we had to wait till the boss ret imed from some-
where out on the run. When a big, sour-looking
chap rode up, and in passing sent us a look that
would freeze the blood of the bad man in a movie
murder picture, a rouseabout over in the milkyard
gave us the signal that he was the boss. My mate
jumped up as if a bulldog-ant had located him,
and, swinging his swag to his shoulder, started off
back the way we’d come. “Here,” I said, “what
about the jol)?”— anxiously, I’m afraid, for our
nosebags were empty. “Aren’t we going to see
him?” “See him be damned!” my mate snapped. “I
don’t like the look of him.”
* * * *
“Ragar” : The sorbi grows up on the top
of Australia and on the islands in Torres Strait.
The adult trees are about 20ft. high, as a rule;
are wide-spreading, and afford an excellent shade;
are distinctly ornamental, with
glossy green leaves, and are
objects of beauty when covered
with the blood-red fruit. The
flesh of the fruit is firm, slightly
sweet and very pleasant. While
living on the islands I used it
for stewing, pies, puddings and
for jam and jelly. As a jam it
takes a lot of beating. The
fruit is about the size, and
roughly tlie shape, of a hen’s
egg, though here and there I have come across it
more than twice that size. With cultivation the
sorbi would be a great addition to our orchards.
“Wandi”: The other night a settler at
Black Swamp, near Tenterfield (N.S.W.), heard a
pig yelling lustily for help. On going to the sty he
found a big tiger-cat clinging to the grunter’s back
and biting lumps out of its neck. Though he beat
it off with a stick, it sprang on to the bacon again
and again, injuring it severely with teeth and daws,
until a dog hopped over and gave a hand. As a rule,
dogs don’t like attacking the tiger-cat, which is
a fierce, reddish-brown animal, marked with white
spots. It is destructive among lambs, and also makes
feathers fly when it gets into a poultry house. Thougli
its habitat ranges from Victoria to Queensland, it is
nowhere very plentiful. I have known it to attack
a man who got in its way, but never knew it to
raid a piggery before.
* ♦ » *
“Dirk Hartog”: “Rob Roy” (B. 29/7/’2O)
gives a detailed account of a world’s shearing record
made in Westralia last year. I am not going to
dispute the figures of any of the tallies; but why
didn’t “Rob Roy” mention that the men shore a
number of double-fleeced sheep and ram lambs, which
were credited to them at the rate of two for one?
* * * *
“Jim Carew”: I once came across the
fresh corpse of a big gohanna with no marks of
violence on him. Close by was a badly-mauled
brown snake, not quite dead. The sand 'around
bore evidence of a lovely scrap. Until then I always
believed the gohanna to be absolutely snake-proof,
but a Binghi has told me that his tongue is vul-
nerable. What did Binghi know about it ?
* * * *
“141”: An almost general bush belief is
that a hobbled horse cannot swim. I believed St
for years. Then this happened. A couple of years
back three of us were camped near a lake, and
intended to be away from the camp for several days.
To make certain of our horses being on hand when
we returned, we swam them out to an island about
200 yards from the shore, hobbled them and swam
back to camp. When we returned the horses were
missing. We searched for them, and found them
about two miles away still hobbled.
“Bright”: “Phil Random” (B. 26/8/ ? 20)
doubts my statement that gum-suckers on the Deep-
water station, Murrumbidgee River, have reached a
height of 20ft. and a girth of 18in. in four years. I
therefore invite him to call in at Bull’s Run boundary-
rider’s hut on Deepwater and ask for Os. Palmer, who
will show him more suckers of the size mentioned than
he will dig out in a week.
ON THE WATER-WAGGON.
“ ’Ad er drink lately, mate?”
“ No; missus ain’t workin’ .”
“Dolphin”: Politicians sometimes play
’possum, but the ’possums do their best to play
politician at Federal Parliament House. They are
always running about the gardens and Climbing over
the building, and sometimes they climb into the
library through the ventilators. A couple of them
had a good play about there one day. Apparently
they are Nationalists, for it was copies of Labor
newspapers that they made the greatest mess of.
“Jimsey” : I once watched some Papuans
catch a python alive. The snake was hanging
over the limb of a tree, and a couple of boys cau-
tiously advanced with a large forked stick. Get-
' ting a good opening, they rushed in and pinned the
snake’s head to the trunk of the tree. The sudden-
ness of the attack brought the rest of the reptile
writhing to the ground. More men ran in and
pinned it securely down. They then gradually
straightened it out. Next a strong bamboo was
run along the snake’s entire length in the spaces
left between the forked sticks and the python, and
the worm was securely tied to the wood. Then
the forks were lifted, and the python, unable t
do anything but glare, was carried, amid great
rejoicing, to the village. The one I saw caught
was kept nearly a week until an important feast-
day arrived.
“Barcoo”: Here in Tambo (Q.), the home
of the bottle-tree, that vegetable supplies the orna-
mental foliage of the main thoroughfare. The
trees were transplanted from a sand-ridge half a
mile to the north—on the bank of the Upper
Barcoo. From there in a direct line of 120 miles
to Jericho, or 90 miles to Alpha in another direc-
tion, the tourist may interview more trees of the
bottle variety than in the same area in any other
part of ’Stralia. Why the beautiful, deep-green-
foliaged tree is not more used for ornamental pur-
poses is a puzzle. By comparison the imported
shrubs are just not in it. Among its advantages
are these: It will stand transplanting at a reason-
able age, it can be lopped into any shape, and it
improves with attention. Out here in this back-of
beyond township there is a row of eight of them
that will cast a shade over a full-sized bullock-
team and have a bit to spare for half-a-dozen motor-
cars. On one station on the Maranoa the gate-posts
leading into headquarters are two splendid live
trees, exactly similar in size and conformation.
Water, by the way, can be got by tapping, but only
once.
*-* * *
“Gorstruth”: My toad came from much
deeper than “Capital Jim’s.” I ™qs sinking the
Silver Queen shaft at Zeehan (Tas.), and after firing
a round of holes at about 160 ft. from surface, we
spotted a toad in a cavity (about x lin.) in
solid rock. The little cuss was quite lively when we
went to pick him up, but when we got him to the
surface we found he was quite blind.
Harag'igi : An •elderly lady visitor
accosted a Haiiuabada (Port Moresby) native the
other day and asked him if he was a_ Christian. “No
blurry fear, was the disconcerting response; “I work
long 8.P.” There are still people who maintain
that the Papuan has no sense of humor.
* * . *
‘Murkah”: There is no sure method of
picking the best puppy. The greatest efforts to
choose the future winner are made among the grev-
hounds. Old-man Bladon, of Rooty Hill (N.S.W.),
very rarely sold puppies. Absolute master of the
points of a greyhound
though he was conceded
by all to be, he thought
so little of alleged
methods of selection (in
the puppy stage) that he
was always afraid of sell-
ing a future champion.
On one occasion, when he
had a decided surplus, he
actually allowed a pros-
pective buyer to take his
pick from a yardful. That
yardful included a baby
that afterwards won three
Waterloo Cups—Bulwark.
As a puppy InVergordon
was offered by his breeder
to a Berrigan man for
nothing and was refused.
Certainly he was an un-
gainly youngster ; later he
wan absolute champion of
two seasons. Bennett, of
Rooty Hill, offered a
puppy to his neighbor
Lamb. Lamb, not greatly
taken with its appearance,
rejected it. Bennett had
another of the same litter
which he greatly fancied,
but it was i soon after-
wards killed. He then
centred on the reject,
calling it Benediction. As
all coursing-men know,
Benediction ran for three
seasons and was never led
or beaten, though he did
all his running with a
collapsed hip, the result of a horse-kick. Finally,
Master McGrath, the champion of all greyhounds,
was the last choice of the litter.
“Nell T.”: Out-back in the Kelly country
of north-east Vic. strangers are often alarmed by
a booming sound that comes from the swamps at
night. The leg-puller tells scalp-lifting tales about
the bunyip, but really the culprit is a water-fowl.
It is known locally as the bunyip bird, stands about
21 ft. in its bare feet, the last foot being neck, and
the boom-boom fs its evehing serenade. The sound
carries about five miles on a clear night.
“Rover”: I can beat “Senex’s” 41-year-
old horse. Nugget, owned by Lieut.-Colonel Heath, of
Apollo Bay (Vic.), was foaled Nov. 17, 1860, and
died on August 29, 1906—45 years 9 j months
later. I was manager for Col. Heath at the time
of the ancient’s death, and had the horse’s record
from the day he was foaled on Colonel Heath’s
property. His mother was an Australian-bred Arab;
his sire was the well-known King Alfred.
HE FOUND HIM VERY WELL.
“How do you find your new man?”
“Mostly by looking in the shade of the tree
nearest his work.”
“O. K. Eden”: Why the kookaburra was
called the laughing-jackass was lately explained, but v
not why it was called the kookaburra. “Burra”
means “quick” in the dialect that first caught on
to the white man. Hence the bird that raucously
laughs “Kook-kook-kook” quickly is the kookaburra.
(Continued, on page 22J
IN BONDAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Already the birds have forgotten the winter —
The snow-winds, the frost-winds, the bitter hard
weather;
And now sylvan song through the forest way gushes,
As hither and thither,
Made glad by the weather,
They make a sweet concert, all singing together—
The maggies, the jackies, the finches and thrushes.
The swallows have hearkened the call of the South-
land,
And homeward they hurry, with scalloped wings
( spurning
The wind of the hilltops, the wind of the hollows ;
Within them the yearning
Of exiles returning,
Grown tired of far places and weary sojourning
Where love was a stranger—thus hasten the swallows.
The sea, too, falls in with the mood of the moment,
And, stilling its tumult and turmoil, reposes;
Its little waves crooning’ and cooing sweet numbers,
it lazily dozes,
Made red by the roses
Of dawn and of sunset, till day giently closes,
And night, dreaming night, on its soft bosom
slumbers.
The waters have wakened on upland and lowland,
And heard is the creek and the murmuring river
By red-gum and grey-gum that border and fend them;
With bosoms aquiver
They thank the blithe giver
Of warmth and of sunshine, and, thanking, deliver
Themselves to that fate that the future may send them.
BATTLEDORE AND SHUTTLECOCK.
ABO. ( watching newchum learn to ride) :
“By cripes, that horse make a blurry
mistake soon, mine tinkit. He won't
always catch him alonga saddled’
The robins are mating, the honey-birds courting
Where fall the gold sunrays, the green leafage
lancing;
And, plundering sweetness, the bee, humming, hovers,
And flitting and dancing,
And gleaming and glancing
Through sunshine enthralling and shadow entrancing,
Are silvies and red-heads and peewits and plovers.
The young breezes stray through the leaves of the
saplings,
Like minstrels who care but to pour out a measure
Of song and begone, leaving wonder behind them
And thoughts that men treasure
And muse on at leisure,
In hushed after-moments recalling with pleasure
The magic that once came to capture and bind them.
The wild flowers are showing their pinks and their
purples,
Their gold and their silver, and, over and under
The grey rocks, the bracken is arching its frondage:
Showers over and thunder,
Gold wattle to plunder—
Gold wattle, rain freshened and perfumed—what
wonder
That Spring holds our hearts in a beautiful bondage!
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


m
■sm
There’s a dtewdnb Furnace for YOUR Special Purpose S
iMewvib
Gas and Oil Furnaces
are Designed to Meet Every Requirement!
Every Stewart Furnace offers the very highest efficiency in the performance of the special
work for which it is designed. They are of the minimum practical size—save floor space.
The greatest heat is obtained by the smallest possible consumption of fuel. They are
built to last, and at the very lowest prices consistent with quality.
The Advantage of Using These Furnaces
is demonstrated daily in thousands of machine-shops and manufacturing
establishments throughout the world! Adapted to use different kinds of
gas or oil. No smoke, soot or odor. No chimney needed.
Write for full particulars.
The dfMWib General Purpose Machine
Fills a Long-felt Need!
It has been specially constructed to meet the constant demand from manufacturers for a machine that could
be used for polishing, grinding, drilling, etc., on stationary objects. It has been installed in stove factories,
wood-working plants, bicycle factories, engineering shops, etc., and has proved an invaluable asset.
Write to-day for full particulars.
hgf
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.,
134 Sussex Street, SYDNEY. 486 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Clark & Fauset, Ltd., Brisbane; Aust. Imp. & H. F. Co., Adelaide; G. P. Harris Scarfe & Co., Perth; N. Z. Loan &
M. A. Co., Rockhampton, Townsville, Hughenden.
11 111 1,1.
/ JtX3
MS
'A
V ''vN
THE FIRST TOUCH TELLS
IT’S A
CHRISTMAN PLAYER PIANO.
The CHRISTMAN
PLAYER PIANO is
complete with every
device necessary to
make playing a
pleasure.
Whether it is played by hand or by music-roll
the CHRISTMAN PLAYER PIANO has a
charm that is all its own. The musician who
uses it as a piano finds it wonderfully responsive
to his touch, and when he inserts a music-roll he
finds that he can still give the music all the
delicate shades his interpretation demands. One
of these magnificent instruments in the home
shortly becomes one of its greatest assets, as
every member of the household can enjoy it i
differently, thereby making it the most cherished
article in the home.
We have perfect confidence in
recommending this excellent Player
Piano for use in severe climates, and
it will appeal to those who desire
something out of the ordinary in
musical instruments.
h
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
You can exchange your present
piano for a Player Piano. We will
allow you its full value, and the
balance can be paid in easy monthly
instalments spread over a period of
years.


Trust duties require special legal and
financial knowledge.
Can you place your hand on an individ-
ual trustee who possesses that knowledge?
What assurance have you that an in-
dividual trustee will live to see your trust
fulfilled?
It is to men who wish fully to secure the
PERMANENT
Trustee Company of N.S.W. Ltd.
interests of their heirs that the services
of the Permanent Trustee Company are
specially opportune.
The Company possesses thorough legal
and financial knowledge. Its long and
varied experience renders it expert in
the transaction of all fiduciary business.
It relieves friends and relatives of trouble
and anxiety.
The Company does not make Corpus
Commission charge till trust becomes
distributable. This practice (unique to
the Permanent Trustee Company) fre-
quently results in a saving of income
sufficient to defray the charge.
Investigate the matter fully. Call for an
interview or write for explanatory
literature.
A. PERCEVAL LEDFORD, Manager t . . .
, axwngei. Inquiries invited.
25 O’CONNE LL STREET,
J. W. Barnes, Assistant Manager.
SYDNEY.
Bright”: “Jim Carew” (B. 26/8/’2O)
disparages my method of extracting a dog from a
trap on the ground that you would have to be “twice
as quick as lightning.” Nonsense! I have seen ail
kinds of dogs taken out that way and have never seen
a good Samaritan bitten yet. But, then, some Samari-
tans know more about th e handling of dogs than
others. In my opinion the man who has to resort
to the unnecessary cruelty of hitting his pal behind
he ear with a stick when that pal has got his
paw caught shouldn’t own a dog.
* * * #
Po ” : My ancient galvanised-iron
bath collapsed, exhibiting a gap in the bottom
extending an inch up the side. Everything pointed
to a visit from the nearest plumber—distant 50
miles—till the two-dozenth inspector, an old bush-
man with hair on his teeth, said, “Why the. .
don’t you shove in some cement?” I bought
three penn’orth, made it into a paste, plastered it
on, filling up the hole, smoothed the mass, and let
the plaster dry and harden. That’s 12 months ago
and ever since I have washed in comfort. The
same artist luridly advised similar treatment for
the sieve-like bottom of my big galvanised-iron
tank. It acted just as well there.
* * * *
B.N.J. : To Po” (B. 12/8/’2O) was not
having his limb extended when he was told about
the heatmg-power of myall. Use myall constantly
in an ordinary Dover stove for about six months
and you will find the metal is burnt out. I know—
Ive just had to replace one in which womal was
used, and this is a species of myall. Myall, womal
and groyea are about on even terms, and will all
burn green. The first two are fair stock-feed in a
drought, but I’ve seen the goats shy off groyea.
* * * *
“Bill R.” : I once recovered from a crow,
after a pursuit of 300 yards, a goose-egg which the
burglar had deposited on a sawn-off stump. The
chase was too hurried for me to discern clearly how
the fruit was carried, but it seemed that the .thief
held it pressed between his lower beak and breast-
ANOTHER SOCIAL CLIMBER.
“Got a job now, Jimmyf"
“Towi! Gettin’ on orright— me parlormaid
up at Missis Casey's boardin' 'ouse."
bone. Anyhow, there was not a mark on the shell,
and I am prepared to swear that neither did he
hump the loot with his claws nor could he open
his face wide enough to hold it in the aperture.
CONSISTENCY.
You really must let me have that tenner you owe me.”
“You shall have it this week certain, old man.”
But you said that the last time I asked you for it.”
“Yes, Pm not the sort of chap who says one thing one day and something else the
next, you know.”
“Malua”: I award the prize for natural
brutality to the Fijian when preparing a turtle for a
feast. The whole process of bleeding, disembowelling
and cleaning is done while the turtle is still alive,
and the poor beast continues to wriggle after being
placed on the fire to cook. The flippers are first cut
near the body, and the blood collected in a dish.
When the bleeding ceases the flippers are broken off
at the joints. The turtle all this time is emitting a
sound as near to the sob of a human being as any-
thing I ever heard. A hole is then cut under
the throat and along the edge of the lower shell,
large enough for a man’s hand. The native then
proceeds to disembowel the still-live turtle. When
this is complete the turtle is placed on red-hot
stones and covered with leaves and earth for cook-
ing. Movement is noticeable for several minutes
afterwards. When I expostulated I was merely told
that the flesh would not taste as well if cooked any
other way.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: “Baba” is in error in saying
(B. 19/8/’2O) that Papuans never boil food except
where civilised methods have
crept in. Many Papuan peoples
boil their food in clay pots, not-
ably the natives of the Mambare,
though, of course, roasting . and
baking are resorted to as well,
Tribes which did not manufacture
pottery long ago learned to pur-
chase it from those who special-
ised in such things. That is how
the Port Moresby natives built up
their famous pottery trade with
the Gulf of Papua savages. The
year’s output of pottery was
packed in the huge, built-up
canoes known as lakatois (you
can see a picture of one on the
Papuan postage-stamp). At the end
of the S.-E. trades, these fleets
ran before the wind to the Gulf
villages and swapped their pots
for the great canoe-trees which
the potters lacked. The trunks
having been cut out, the IcCkatois
ran back again to Port Moresby,
when the N.-W. trades began,
laden with the sago which is the
Gulf Papuans’ specialty.
“Appleland”: Want the plans for a good
cool-storage for apples? Well, here they are: a
patch of fern or grass, that’s all, preferably out of
reach of ducks, fowls, calves and small boys. Tip
the apples out on the ground, cover them with a
few ferns, and there you are. Cheap; easy, too.
Don’t worry if you hear the rain descending in tor-
rents. That won’t hurt them. They keep for
months even on the north-west coast of Tasmania.
“E. Gippy”: “Yarrum’s” wombats (B.
8/5/’2O) must have got crossed with wild pork to
have litters of 10. I have killed dozens of wom-
bats and never found more than one joey in the
pouch, though there is a second teat in case of
twins. The critters have more go in them down
here in South Gippsland than they seem to have
farther north. One attacked a nipper who went to
a burrow with a dog, and the youngster was as
roughly handled as if he had met an old-man ’roo.
“A.E.W.”: With a view to assisting
“Spuds” (B. 19/8/’2O) in boring through hard myall-
posts, as a mechanic I recommend that, instead
of Hie ordinary bit, he gets an engineer’s twist-
drill of the required diameter, ground rather sharper
than for metal, if possible. It can easily be obtained
with square shank for brace. He will get the holes
through with this all right, but it will still be hard
work. To make the job easier he should have an
assistant with, say, a sft. length of 3in by 2in.
hardwood. Place one end on the ground, and, with
the other, lever-fashion, bring the stick to bear on the
part of the brace where his chest goes, and press
while the helper turns the brace. A nail driven through
the stick, acting as a pivot at the point of con-
tact with the bracff-back, would help to retain
the position, and the leverage makes it easy. If
he is ’way-back and finds difficulty in getting the
drill, I’ll be glad to get it and grind it for him, if
he will let me know the size of hole and thick-
ness of post to b He should not run the
brace quickly, but rather slowly, with plenty of
pressure on the stick. But what’s wrong with driv-
ing staples in the side of posts and putting extra-
wires through them instead? [“Spuds” explained
that he was a Digger who had started farming and
having struck this early trouble with his
posts, he asked to be helped out. If one reply
has come there have been a hundred—the foregoing
is a fair sample. It shows a fine disposition to
assist the new Digger-cocky.— Ed B ]
** * ’
David Carson writes about his brother-
pioneers of the North:—
r + " C®- 8/7/’2O) does not .give a correct
“s* of , the pioneers of the Gulf country. J. G
McDonald had no stock there in 1863, his holding at
that tune being on the Burdekin watershed. In 1860
the farthest-north station (in which I was inter-
ested) was Suttor Creek, and most of the stock
going north passed close by it. Nat Buchanan
"JPk- cattle from Fort Cooper to Bowen Downs and
Mount Cornish in 1863, and, on returning, having
taken up the country, passed Suttor Creek on July
31. 63. Tower Hill cattle followed. Carson and
Sutherland sheep left Felton and Goomburra, on the
Downs, for the Gulf, in May, 1863, were shorn at
Suttor Creek, and were stuck up by floods. We had
to bridge the Belyando and did not reach the
Flinders waters till April, 1864. The first on the
Flinders with stock was Ernest Henry (cattle), of
iHughenden; followed within a few days of one
another by Collins and Walpole (cattle), Telemon;
R. H. Sheaffe (cattle), Marathon; Carson and Suther-
land (sheep) Mt. Walker; J. L. Ranken (sheep)
Afton; and Bundock and Hays (cattle), Richmond
Downs. The dry season then stopped travelling
sto ? Jj - Carson and Sutherland secured Marathon’
Sheaffe moved to Fort Constantine. On Sept’
26 Duncan Macintyre, with M. Barnett and black-
boys, struck the Flinders from the Paroo, on the
lookout for country. On Oct. 2 Roland Edkins came
on to hold Gibson s bullock-drays, which were travel-
ling ahead of the cattle, as cattle could not follow
for want of water. This stopped all travelling stock
till the rains; and then followed, from January 18
onwards (1865), a succession of sheep and cattle. Mv
old diaries, which I still have, contain many such
entries as: 4 January 18: O’Halloran near Hughenden*
Shepherd killed by blacks; 2000 sheep left out of
9000 ; “March 13: O’Halloran’s sheep passed Mara-
thon ; 1200 left out of 9000” ; “Jan. 23: Sheaffe re-
ports Merredith and Neeley (Tower Hill) killed bv
blacks. Cuthbert Featherstonhaugh camped with us
while we were building the bridge over the Belvando
on his way to Vine Creek.
* * * •
“YDI”; Pure-bred dingoes vary tremend-
ously in pace and gameness. Some craok up at once
and are cowed; others run grimly on for six or seven
miles, show extraordinary speed and endurance, re-
sort to all sorts of wild-dog cunning, and only give
in when absolutely exhausted. In the winter of 1880
on a Darling Downs (Q.) sheep-station, three of us
at sunrise came on two dogs so engrossed on running
down a kangaroo that we got within 200 yards of
them before they bolted. The fence that spelled
safety for them was two miles distant. Our
horses were proved stayers, fresh, hard, and corn-fed,
any of them fit to win a good hack-race ; the country
was, open forest and the going good. We rode all
out. From the start, running without bend or turn,
the dogs drew away, gradually increasing their lead’
' seemingly without effort, and got through the fence
300yds. to the good. By the way, has any reader
ever run a dingo into a hollow log? I’ve run down
scores in rung-box country, and never logged one.
1 reckon they shun an unfamiliar log because of
their natural fear of a trap. Incidentally, the effect
of a 20yds. swim on an exhausted dog is almost un-
canny: it renders the animal nearly as fresh as !he
was at the start of a hard chase.
* * *
.“Silas” : Barney and Ben were felling for
Ryan's mill at Feathcrhead, and had brought down
a tall stick. Lopping off, Barney was surprised to
find a norseshoe wedged in the first fork, and partly
over-grown. He carried the shoe up to the mill
and told the story of his find to everybody who
cared to listen, and to many who didn’t care at all
Then he took it into the township, and displayed
it to a barful of timber-getters. Obviously he con-
sidered it a very amazing thing; plainly nobody
else thought it anything in particular. After Bar-
ney had explained for the fifth time, Wylie rounded
on him. “Well,” he said, “whatnel if you did
find it in a tree?” “Be me sowl, ’twas 50 fut
high!” reasoned Barney. “Supposing it was eighty
foot high! There’s nothing to get excited over in
finding a horseshoe in a tree.” Barney looked
amazed. “Look it here,” said he; “yer dom smart
all iv yiz. Will e’er a wan iv ye tell me how the
blasted horse got up there ?”
THE HAPPY “MEDIUM."
“S.A.E.S.”: Can “Spud Trapper” (B.
19/8/’2O) or any other Abo. tell me whether or not
seed potatoes are injurious as food ? The other day, the
household supplies running short, I purloined a few
from a bag of seed, just ready to go under. When
cooked they were pale yellow and of peculiar flavor.
Subsequently the family complained of assorted com-
plications for which, in the absence of lobster, the
spuds were blamed. Any explanation forthcoming?
P-S-' The dog rejected his portion with scorn.
* * * *
“Te Pana”: As tucker the Maori puts
shark first and the huhu grub second. This grub, the
larva of a night moth, is 3in. long, yellow in the hide
and with crinkly folds of fat; it is found in rotting
timbers. Hori hunts ’em with an axe and passes
the resultant spoils over to Mere, who grills them
slowly in rimu embers. The shrivelled bits of fat
are nutty in flavor, and with a few dozen pipis, a
piece of pork and a quarter of potatoes Hori
acclaims them kapai.
THE ’CORDEON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If you’ve heard a “bush planner'’ handled in a proper
manner,
You’ll admit it beats the band right from the jump.
Cornets, fiddles, flutes or ’cellos can’t stand up
before the bellows
I\hen a dinkum pro. gets both hands on the
pump.
Other instruments want tunin’, screwin’, stringin’ up
or prunin’,
Or their insides needs attention from a vet •
My planner’s lungs are leather, fit for work in anv
weather,
An its singin’ voice is always ready set.
There’s no call for music-readin’, or a mad con-
ductor’s leadin’,
We can live without them trimmin’s on the tramp;
bet the bloomin’ bellows blowin’, get the offside
fingers goin’,
An’ the near-side hoof well down upon the vamp.
Hear the beaut, at country dances! Watch young
Cocky as he prances,
An’ the waves of music lift him from the floor;
though the player’s arms need spellin’, “Let ’er
rip!” the mob is yellin’.
Even wallflowers keep on callin’ out for more.
Like the dancin’ couples chaffin’, or the kooka-
burra’s laughin’,
Bush planners only know one cheerful key •
But that key’s to lock out sorrow, not to sneak it
from to-morrow.
“Let ’er rip!” That’s them a-callin’ out for me.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
STRIPPER.


BACK AGAIN!
WINFRED
Cigarettes.
The World’s Favorite.
GOLD TIPPED.
IQ for 9d.
SHIPMENTS JUST LANDED.
Obtainable Everywhere.


Tke
Purest
Spirit
in. the
AXorkL
r '
Fife’s schnap? 6
* // t
// XT'
liijliiitiliiiiiiiilllllliillliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiTiTiiiiiiiiiriiiiimiiiiiiiiMiiiniiiTniiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiimi
EVERY Drop of
“Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
A Plain
Fact!
W. G. Heame & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street. SYDNEY.
w.
not as much praise to an Australian drama
as will endanger his billet. For that is
Mr. Bedford’s primal sin—he is an Austra-
lian, and his play is Australian. It is pro-
duced in Australia by an Australian com-
pany and then the misguided playwright
expects a fair deal. Well, he won’t get it.
A morning newspaper says of “The Boss
Cockie :
Like one of his characters, the author is “talking,
always talking,” from the rise of the curtain on the
hotel lounge in Townsville to the final scene outside
the house and garden of Tom Greathead.
Terrible, isn’t it? But a little further on
this “great daily” is compelled to admit that
While resisting the temptation to show what lie
could do in touch-and-go dialogue, Mr. Bedford has
contrived to crowd into a long string of speeches
unconventional views extending over a wide range of
things in the comedy of human existence, with a
quaint and curious combination of playful humor,
biting sarcasm and broad burlesque. If a success of
laughter—laughter at any price—was the aim of the
author, he must have been more than satisfied on
Saturday night.
Of course, our great newspaper expected
Mr. Bedford to prefer “a success of tears”
—but whether on the part of the audience
or of the author it fails to indicate. It does,
however, very clearly indicate the sort of
humor which itself delights in—that sort
of humor which does not talk: the horse-
play of harlequin, the buffoonery of panta-
loon, the coarse, practical jokery of clown,
the brutal humorosities of Punch and Judy.
In short, pantomime and puppet-show, with
all their dazzlingly curious “combination of
playful humor, biting sarcasm and broad
burlesque.”
The truth is that Mr. Bedford is too Aus-
tralian tq please their trans-oceanic taste;
and, moreover, his views are “unconven-
tional,” and our great dailies do like views
of the proper-thinking kind which all right-
minded persons hold under penalty of being
considered “highly reprehensible.” There’s
the rub ! The local theatrical managements
always “give the public what it wants,”
until the public taste is depraved enough
to take any kind of dramatic sewage, or else
rises in revolt and kills a manager or two
by slow starvation. Any drivelling melo-
drama from old Drury-lane ; any sexual rot-
tenness from Mayfair; any indecent ribaldry
from Ratcliffe Highway or the penny-gaffs
of the Shoreditch slums, which smacks its
fleshinged thigh and asks “Who were you
with last night, out in the pale moonlight?”
any suggestive seepage by the imported
music-hall vulgarians, and any inane sweep-
ings and ragged ravellings from castaway
revues, riotous with luscious legs and reek-
ing with libidinous lyrics—any of this fore-
going precious category capable of stage-
representation is welcome to local manage-
ment wherewith further to debauch an
already-debauched public with the “things
it wants,” and welcome also it is to the
great daily newspaper, which percolates
the mush of its newsprint with treacly adjec-
tives thereupon.
Mr. Bedford is accused of giving Aus-
tralia a play without a plot. Nobody ever
requires a plot in an imported article. Mr.
Bedford is accused of writing a monologue for
part-speaking—a sort of dramatic glee, I
suppose. Well, what of it? It achieves,
according to our great daily newspaper, “a
success of laughter.” What do you want
more than a success? And the greatest of
all successes, “a success of laughter”? For
man is distinguished from the brutes that
perish by his ability to laugh—that is, when
he gets a chance. Mr. Bedford deserves a
monument of gold from this Australian
people, because he has given it, or them,
something which inspires them as gods are
inspired—something which moves them to
laughter. Once in a generation this thing
is achieved, and (according to the great
daily newspaper) Mr. Bedford has achieved
this thing with “The Boss Cockie.” What
do you want more than that?
A friend, a real journalist, writes to me
in a private letter: “I have seen Bedford’s
play—a series of jokes, jests, paradoxes,
proverbs, epigrams, sarcasms and ironies.”
M hat more do you want? Are you growl-
ing because it isn’t “Hamlet”? ‘if it con-
tained a string of jokes, jests, paradoxes,
proverbs, epigrams,./ sarcasms and ironies
you are getting literature, and getting it
cheap. The Athenians went to the theatre
to get literature, because they had few books,
and the few they had were too costly for
wholesale possession. The Athenians went
to the theatre to get literature. The people
of Sydney have many books; but they don’t
read them —perhaps they haven’t time. The
people of Sydney go to the theatre to buy
tripe because the local theatrical manage-
ments tell them that tripe is good for the
health, and just the sort of thing they
want. If, by chance, they tumble into Bed-
ford’s theatre, they get literature —and great
daily newspapers growl thereat. In this day
and generation the people of Australia are
very lucky if, instead of luscious legs and
libidinous lyrics, they get by chance a string
of aphorisms from the pen of Bedford—a
necklace of pearls of wit and wisdom
threaded by that cunning stylus, his pen.
FRED J. BROOMFIELD.
The Dramas of Arthur Symons
Literary reputations are particularly
liable to become moss-grown. And what,
perhaps, was regarded as the highest auda-
city in one age will often be held timid in
the next. So with Arthur Symons, the
direct successor to Walter Pater in the
apostolic line of literary criticism. In the
Savoy and Yellow Book' days, when Symons
polka'd with Puck-liko audacity over the pol-
ished boards of Victorian tradition, he
earned the highest reputation as poet and
critic. Yet he has always retained, both
in prose and in verse, a musical simpli-
city of style and sincerity—the two “first
things” demanded of creative literature.
And how welcome after the vorticists, vers-
librists and flatulent blaguers of contempo-
rary verse! To re-open a book of Symons’s
poetry is to walk in a well-ordered garden
after blazing a trail through the tangled
and bewildering undergrowth of a bellicose
modernity.
Symons has labelled his work “Tragedies,”
yet only a few pieces fall within the scope
of tragedy. The legend of Tristan and
Iseult has supplied dramatic diet for many
poets before Symons: Tennyson included it
in his “Idylls of the King,” Bedier has given
a modern rendering from the old French,
and Swinburne supplied a variation in
“Tristram of Lyonesse.” “Cleopatra in
Judaea” and “The Death of Agrippina” are
both themes which poets have used for cen-
turies. But gauged by the Greek definition
of tragedy and the examples of imitators
of the Attic stage. each is but the faint resi-
duum of a tragedy. “The Toy Cart,” his
latest play (Maunsel, 1919), is founded on
an Indian story. It is a genuine drama,
whose characters are deftly delineated, and
the whole play infused with a rich Indian
atmosphere.. “The Harvesters” —to my mind
his greatest play—is a poignant tragedy of
Cornish peasant life. This tragedy of
parentage, though as old as “Lear,” Symons
invests with the intensest pathos and dssp-
est beauty. The plot turns on the incidents
in the life of Mary Raven, who has been
loved, seduced and deserted by Peter Corin.
Her stern and Puritanic father, discover-
ing her shame, offers her a home but will
never speak to her again. After months of
grinding torment and silence, Mary cries
out against her father :
You are an old man sitting by the wall,
And it is you would tie me by the hand
And call it pity, and tie me by the foot
And call it justice, and you would give me bread.
And let me hate the bread, and call the bread
Kindness; and you would let me slowly die
Of justice, pity, kindness; and sit there
Crumbling away silently like the wall.
You are an old man, and you have done me wrong.
But I am young still, and I will work and live....
Though the originator of a new lyric beauty
and flexible blank verse of a timeless music
and rhythm, Symons stands outside all con-
temporary dramatic movements. Not a great
poet, perhaps, in the sense that Wordsworth
and Swinburne are great; but rather an aco-
lyte at the altar of beauty, and as such he
shares nothing with the uncertain vehemence
and whimsical jocosity of the generality of
very modern poets. His “Tragedies” and
his delicately sequestered moralities, “The
Dance of the Seven Sins” and “The Fool of
the World,” are unknown outside the Stage
Society, because in this materialistic age
poetic drama —the golden heritage of all Eng-
lishmen—has been forced to sit in the stalls
and watch Bernard Shaw and his disciples
with bad-boy audacity correct the pro-
gramme of this planet. But when the last
echo of Shavian bellicosity has died away,
this gifted and original poet, Arthur Symons,
will come late and world-worn into his own
kingdom.
REG S. ELLERY.
Padding
“Alan B.” speaks of padding in a novel
as a thing that doesn't exis_t in the sense of
stuffing thrown in to bulk it out, and then
proceeds to say the so-called padding is the
novel. Doubtless famous books are read
for their slow analytical studies of character
or their brightly-discursive References to
members of an imaginary peerage, and their
moralisings thereon. The virtue of the novel
may be in the things that matter least to
the story. But even the highest quality
of padding may be tiresome. Among the
most famous novels of Thackeray the discur-
siveness of the author is carried to the limit
of endurahce in “The Neweomes,” a dull
book as compared with “Pendennis.” A lot
of the moralising and family history in the
book bores one; whereas the yards of- petty
details in a bulky Arnold Bennett novel are
to the point and full of human interest. I
would take Arnold Bennett’s “These Twain”
as an example of the readable first-class
novel which is nearly all padding, whilst
Wells’s “Love and Mr. Lewisham” is a
shorter story with mor.e meat in it. Yet
how much lighter and more narrational is
the padding in “These Twain” than in “The
Egoist,” and how strong in plot, humorous
characterisation and appeal to human sym-
pathy is a long novel by the melodramati-
cally descriptive Dickens, or the discursively
satirical Thackeray, compared with the best
of the analytical character studies by writers
of later date!
As for the contention that the modern
world has no time for reading any but short
stories free from padding, I , find no
time for the shortest of stories save
those of a humorous parable order.
The characters in them make no im-
pression on one’s mind. They are too
fleeting and' fictitious. One can get more
interested in the heroes and heroines of
criminal and divorce-court reports than in
people whose sole purpose in a dramatic
short story is to lead up to a surprise end-
ing. Suppose “Mary McC.” is right in the
contention that “the people who seldom read
fiction grow and multiply because time is
scarcer and there are more things to do. The
person with a literary education is now both
numerous and defiant. To him half the
words written in the making of a modern
novel are an intellectual insult; and half
of those that remain are of no consequence.”
Is this any argument against the merit of
the old, long-winded, padded novel (as
“Mary” would call it) compared with the
shorter story which allows no time for an
intimacy to mature between the characters
and the intelligent reader? I say No.
In Spender’s “The Comments of Baer-
shot,” a person with a literary education
explains why half the words in a modern
novel are a literary insult to many people.
Hear him: —
“The fool hath his eyes on the end of the earth.”
But so has the modern man with the modern news-
paper. What subtle effect, I wonder, has this daily
diffusion of consciousness through cable and tele-
graph upon the mind of the race? This incessant
hitching-on and hitching-off leads to a kind of intel-
lectual short-windedness. The thinking capacity of
man remains constant, so far as one can discover,
while the demands upon it multiply indefinitely. His
minci 1S daily divided between a hundred imperfect
non ® °! , whicb can be even approximately
eaUse , d - Mental culture reverses the process of
agriculture, and passes from the intensive to the ex-
tensive, going to seed over a wider and wider area,
regardless of the fertility or infertility of the soil,
Hence the sharp, shallow, inconsecutive modern in-
telligenee, which prefers the article to the book, the
P ara £ ra P h to the article, and, eventually, the headline
t 0 the paragraph '
EDMUND FISHER.
cuchulain-Rustum
The tremendous human story of “Sohrab
and Rustum” is placed by Mathew Arnold
where he found it, in Central Asia. The date
of the happening is more or less fixed by
the fact that the Persians and Tartars are
at war. Yet that very story comes to us
in Irish legend and is told of Cuchulain, the
greatest of Irish heroes. There is a version,
too, with different actors, in the Scottish
Ossian; but there, although the theme is
the same, the intimate details found in the
Irish and Persian stories are lacking. Those
details—the names withheld, the feeling of
some strange previous knowledge, the son’s
aim misdirected through emotion, the
father’s grief—make us wonder. They are
so close in both versions that we are forced
to wonder what can be the common source
of the tales. Had the story gone from Fer-
sia to Ireland or from Ireland to Persia in
early historical times it must have left some
record of its travels. In the seventh and
eighth centuries Irishmen went very far
afield. Their geographers give accounts of
some of the Nile canals which have only
recently been re-discovered ; they give accu-
rate measurements of the Pyramids; they
take it as an axiom that the earth is a
sphere; they describe Iceland a century be-
fore the Norse discovered it. An Irishman
might easily have reached Persiaj but to
suppose that he told the tale there and only
there is stretching the probabilities. Again,
the late date of the Persian variation—it
had been written in Ireland long before it
5.?? “> have happened to Tartary-
makes it most unlikely that it tiavolled
trom east to west. The explanation which
seems best to fit the case is that the story
belonged in very remote times to the whole
Aryan race and lias only been preserved at
the eastern and western limits of the ancient
Aryan Empire. That there ever was such
an empire is, of course, mere conjecture—
that thfre was even an Aryan race lias been
disputed, chiefly by Germans—but the con-
jeeture is a convenient one which fits a lot
of facts. Once admit such an ancient origin
for the tale, however, and we are up against
some rather tremendous possibilities. Cuchu-
lain, about whom it is told, ceases to be an
Irish hero and becomes common to all the
European group of peoples. I have often
suspected that Helen of Troy is a garbled
edition of Deirdre of the Sorrows. Perhaps
Ulysses is only a less pleasant version of
Maeldun. After all, Ireland was the only
country of settled order and rule which did
not come under the sway of the Roman
Empire; and there if anywhere the oldest
romance of Europe should keep some of its
freshness.
C. O. M.
A Satchel of Books
The Rcal wealth 0 f Nations, by John S.
Hecht (Harrap, London). After the war it
was evident that the world required reeon-
struction, and 1500 reconstructors wrote 1500
wrote wor , k p sho f uld be done,
~.. .5 . f aad Professor Dryas-
ttr/nlo the . eminent-Greeks
° IoUS i^ trib l lt fi
l^GhriS™wi “A Ce “ e^ no
,1?! n i R , en L great length they
Sfl 'rw h /sei ther active or torpid
spk) B a : 1 hey hold forth on the relations of
and labor and on the need for pro-
duc?°“. and f .°r less row in the process of
productlon lf can be arranged. And they
? eem a p' ee d. on the fact that a cow viewed
above is a square sort of animal con-
taimng milk aim with pedestal at each
corner - Mea llk e Ellis Barker, who supply
! nasses of valuabl e statistical information, are
! n .? category by themselves; but the great
bulk. ot the reconstructors, including John S
“ ec ht, are dust and ashes,
The Work of W. B. Mclnnes (Alex. Mc-
Cuboin and Co., Melbourne), with a brief
biography by Alex. Colquhoun, presents
capital reproductions in color and half-
tone of some of Mclnnes’s recent .suc-
cesses. The frontispiece is a print of
a portrait which made a hit when exhibited
in Melbourne some time back. There are
also views of the Alphington lucerne farm
which lias been a frequent inspiration ; but
the artist’s slick brushwork is best revealed
in the study of “A Winter’s Morning.” Mc-
Innes’s habit of painting in broad, unmessed
masses of pigment has grown on him in re-
cent years, but with breadth of style has come
a greater atmospheric quality. This is evi-
dent in "Evening Glow,” a fine bit of Aus-
tralian scenerv.
Four Blind Mice, by Cecil Champion
Lowis (John Lane) . A tale of Rangoon,
where the swamp-rice grows and morals wilt
an d there’s a fine crop of fungus on your
boots in the morning. Not many plots have
b een i a i d j n Burmah; and the new scenery
adds interest t 0 the travelling of a tingle,
one ] oop of which takes in Brisbane. E?en
jf on i y f or t ji e picture it gives of Burmah it
if- wn rßi bovine
1 __j
. T .
Centurion : \Y (Red Page 19/8/201
9, U °A, S tke ba “ ad of the Widows Three
, ons as evidence that the swaggie’s tucker-
bags are ancient ornaments. \\ hen James 11.
?. co yand instituted the ancient order of
hcensed beggars, which endured nearly to our
°^Y n times, the charter laid down, among
°ther things, the number of bags for “meal
and meat ’ which the licensee might carry,
“The gaberlunzie,” as he was called, wore a
gown of blue cloth (hence his other name,
“bluegown”), and on the breast thereof were
the royal arms of Scotland. Usually a
broken soldier, he could beg without molesta-
tion. He could claim shelter of some sort
at night and in inclement weather, and. as he
was usually a good tale-teller and brought the
news of one parish to another in days when
evening papeis were not, he did pretty well,
As a method of repatriating the Scottish
Expeditionary Force of that day. the idea
, i i •
had a touch of simple dnectness lacking in
more modern and ambitious schemes.


TT3S
535
5
fe ■
£§§
§§&&£&
m
Sfisa.
is»SS©&s£:
s£ss<s
■ :
r^e
®s£>2
■S®
m
£&
«t?r
'•••■■
5£«S
ass
■:■■-,■■ ■
2&<S§
LV.-v
is\ra
SB
Sw
©as
SVSs
M?
B
l&S>5&
M&M
'3'i’w
i
g«s
aas
&2
ISM
Ml
■
stg
mg
essr
5s»S
ftp
1
'"®*S
g§?
a
>
M
Ssv
■
wZ
®cs
«
3?SS
g^&g
;5?»
&S&SS#
m
upv-i
' .{ • • ■; ;’
*- SI
«SS.v*
\
pfi
a?
»
■
m
•KSPt
•• •'■'
‘WM
UK
MB
jisis
f|i
«'i‘
<3ls
7VY
555
SS®
m
6S
H
Sfen
ia
HBx
iSSs
Sis
uu
m
*«js»s
:p
i?§z
ii
AiV-
-55^3
£3
'Si«
.: %
>Y-
BM|
HHHS
*i|p
»•* *c*V:riC'P
frP.^
rga'il
I'-
Upm
smm&i
w,v*
■•MS!
~ltt
f ' N S^§S!
>?Jr
i
k*£
J#S?
ISisaasiMiii
■ 1 M 11 1
Sft
-•VTA^^VO^/
IMR
Y-»Vi <!r*
Hi
IM
ifti
*
s#Pi'
##!&#
W'!
s r v>V^U‘;>; s . v'Vyj
r&wlg
»«
»«
/
w #X
|*s®
-"* •*>?* ?»'■- < * i v r'.- v
M 0
?iiw*
mMM
-v
V=?i
W-P
Vi
‘
SMsKs
r,"V
‘vi-i'T'■ v('vii*7
JkMM
'M
mm
mmm
* -y
\
’
*
.IMf
m
*msm
m
AM
«
«
7<^rj
PiSS?
ft
'••> V
1
t<^'S
SSS
i®>'
H
MW
ii*-
m&mi
KW
M
;; -
■mi
?JSN
it
S®KjS^B®^fiF
/
sg
JM
jiW
-t^
S»
'',;i.'SS&f>S3&«
/9
st«3'
■ - 7, r :i'''v
a:
■MR
; r»
psp
"<j
/
Squash Racquets
—the Prince's game
' v
C
qpO buy shirts that bear
1 tbe Pelaco brand is to
be assured of tbe true
satisfaction that big'b
quality alone affords. AsK
your Mercer for Pelaco
Shirts and Collars


/ /
;:C-
-I’ve worked out west,
Down south, up north,
For hours and hours by day.
My constant call throughout them all—Hey!
Get the Wool Away!
CONSIGN:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Selling Brokers, ltd.
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
gf
New Biscuits
Under the insistent charm of
“Joyce” biscuits, the preju-
dices of even the most
conservative folk are fast
melting into genuine appre-
ciation. And it is no wonder,
for these biscuits are a per-
fect product of the modern
culinary art—attractive to
the eye and irresistible to
the palate.
YOUR GROCER KEEPS THEM.
s ~lxly
TRADE MARKS
l /! I
b.s.a.
!_
( r
m
nr
n
RIDE A B.S.A.
FOR SPEED
The in-a-hurry journeys make it well
worth your while to own a bicycle
built of B.S.A. Fittings. You are al-
ways sure of getting there in time; no
waiting for tram, train, or other con-
veyance. You can save time and
money every journey on a bicycle
built of B.S.A. Fittings. The easy
running, reliability, quality of work-
manship, and excellence of material
employed, have built up for B.S.A.
Fittings a reputation for quality sec »«d
to none. That is why the famous
B.S.A. Trade Mark stands for the vr-vy
best in cycle construction.
All B.S.A. Parts are
guaranteed interchangeable.
RIDE A BICYCLE BUILT CF
GENUINE
QTTTNGS
THOROUGHLY BRITISH
Send for B.S.A. HandtsaJ*
free.
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing B.S.A. Co. Lt&J.
Australian Buildings, MELB@SS?NE,
MBSsiiip
mm
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
h
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
<BHA^
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION -for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House," 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O'Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Buildings.
“A.W.” “ T.Y.R.” “A.Wi PREMIER.”
ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH.
HIGH-SPEED DRILLS. HIGH-SPEED STEEL.
Sole Australian Representatives.-
Gilbert Lodge & Co. Ltd., .street, Sydney.
' 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Inter-State Stocking Agents
A. SCOTT & CO., 161 Edward Street. Brisbane.
CHAS°\TKTNS?A S ?wa^ ‘‘V* ® randa Bld *Sv Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CIIAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.), Etd., 804 Hay Street, Perth.
Manufactured by
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.,
Manchester, England.
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS-
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
&
TRY IT
BY
APPOINTMENT
gfh
TO '
H.M. THE KING
SCRUBBS AMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATION OF INSECT BITES.
Of all Grocers, Chemists, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
gf
THE PALACE HOTEL
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
URODONAL
The Great French Remedy for Gout, Rheumatism, Gravel, Calculi,
Obesity, Acidity, Arterio-Sclerosis.
An
A
hill/,
%
K
m
The age of a man is the age of his arteries. Keep your arteries young by
taking URODONAL, and you will thereby avoid Arterio-Sclerosis, which
hardens the walls of the blood vessels and renders them stiff and brittle.
the SIGN OF THE TEMPORAL ARTERY.—(Dieulafey’s Temporal
Sign.) “If you should see between the eye and the root of the hair,
under the wrinkled and withered skin of the temples, a kind of hard,
bluish and knotted cord protruding, be on your guard, for you are
threatened with senility. It does not matter if you have not a white hair;
your arteries are growing old. It is necessary to act immediately. Purify
your blood of the poisonous substances which taint it, and especially of
the most dangerous of all, viz., Uric Acid.”
Dr. J. L. S. BOTAU.
DISSOLVES URIC ACID as easily as warm
water dissolves sugar!
PREPARED BY ETABLISSEMENTS CHATELAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 10/9.
Can be obtained from all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australasia,
or from CHATELAIN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 352 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY, from whom also can be obtained Free Booklet containing
Medical Opinions.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Even auctioneers have their inspirations.
He was selling a 50ft. frontage of Melbourne
SryoK an d worked the price up to
ifSo per foot, and there it had hung. The
man with the hammer had almost exhausted
his < eloquence. “Come, come, gentlemen,
can t we get £BOO a foot for this marvellous
business dJock ?” Suddenly pointing to a
squatter who had been bidding, “Come along,
old man,” he said, “another ten. It's beau-
tiful soil!”
“FY7”: Mrs. Laura Duncan, of Moora-
berie station, in far-out Queensland, whose
law-suit with the Queensland Government
has become a classic, has been getting a bit
of her own back. Barred by Government
proclamation from sending her cattle over
the N. S. Wales border, she recently over-
landed a lot from Mooraberie to Adelaide.
Iliere the mob, a mixed lot, brought high
prices, 500 bullocks averaging £2O. The
route followed was practically that taken
by Bedford, of Boma, when he overlanded
that famous lot from Bowen Downs which
Rolf Boldrewood immortalised in “Bobbery
Under Arms.”
* * * *
From Hartwell Condfer, at Strahan (Tas.) :
Four of my friends have now sent me “Forester’s”
paragraph about Huon-pine oil. They know I pro-
duced this oil in considerable quantity some years
ago from sawdust at my mill, but they do not know
that I went to considerable trouble to find a use for
it. “Forester” is right in saying that it is composed
mostly of methyl-eugenol; but I have yet to find a
market for this in the scent trade. Neither German
(pre-war) nor American scent people to whom it
was submitted could make an offer for it. What is
used in the trade is eugenol, which can be converted
to vanillin. So far we have been unable to effect
this conversion with methyl-eugenol. In the same
disappointing manner, it is just not quite as good
as eucalyptus oil for flotation purposes. It is a
strong antiseptic and may well f come into use in
surgery, but is not as cheap as carbolic and kindred
substances. It is a splendid insecticide and insecti-
fuge, and there seems a chance of opening up a
trade in it on these lines. There is still a fair
supply of Huon pine timber on this West Coast.
J. Bobertson”: For ascertaining the
super, measurements of a log there seems
little to choose between (1) “H. Murray’s”
method (B. 19/8/’2O), viz., quarter of cir-
cumference squared multiplied by length and
by 12, and (2) that of multiplying three-
quarters of square of circumference by
length. Both methods give the same result
which is equivalent to the Mathieson method,
almost exclusively used by Victorian timber
merchants. I never could understand,
though, the basis on which Mathieson makes
his allowance for wastage in cutting. The
actual super, content of a log 22ft. circ.
and 20ft. long is 9240 ft., while Mathieson’s
table gives 7260 ft., a difference of 21.4 p.c.
The difference between actual and trade mea-
surement is responsible for a deal of mis-
understanding. On one occasion litigation
was threatened because the purchaser of an
area of pine-trees insisted on making settle-
ment on the basis of Mathieson’s standard,
whilst the vendor expected to be paid for
the super, in the logs. He knew his mea-
surements were right because a school-
teacher had worked them for him.
“B.E.8”: The suggestion (B. 19/8/’2O)
that some day a genius may make history
by organising a trades union of wheat-
growers” is possibly nearer than a good
many think. The Primary Producers’ Union
J? wonderful progress in organising
the ■N.S.YY. cockies; but a body giving even
greater promise of militancy is the fast-
growing N.S.W. Association,
lhe mass of orchardists are becoming rather
tired of consigning the concentrated effort of
1L months (not at 44 hours a week) to some
unknown inhabitant of Sussex-street on the
gloriously uncertain basis of “as good a price
as possible, and at present they are looking
t 0 co-oneration to help themselves out. The
A.D.F.A. has shown what can be done, and
the infusion of new methods by the Diggers,
together with their expanded horizon, is giv-
ing the needed impetus; already a combina-
tion of several producers’ co-op. societies,
following Maoriland’s lead with dairy pro-
duce is negotiating in London for the dis-
posal of then- commodities direct to the re-
tailers’ associations. Once every producer
is a unionist it will still need a genius to
breathe life into the concern. De Garis, of
the A.D.F.A., speaking a t a recent confer-
ence, admitted that no money would tempt
him to tackle this fruitgrowers’ pro-
blem; hut the time is coming, and the hour
may produce the man. Meanwhile the black-
list is growing.
PLENTY IN THE FURNACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
_ That the sun can maintain its output of heat for
15 billion years is the most outstanding declaration
made at the British Association’s annual meeting-.”
Thank all our stars there’s one thing left
That will outlast our day !
Of other comforts here bereft,
We still can make our hay,
I' or sunshine is the same old price,
And Sol will burn our ears
(Mem.: Get in stocks of powdered rice)
For fifteen billion years.
He shines upon a shoddy globe
Where things wear out and fade;
The wearer follows cap and robe
When grim Death plays the spade;
But every morn the laughing sun
Comes in upon his cue,
To bow when his day’s work is done,
Then take the stage anew.
I wonder how they found it out—
What dead-white little man
Measured and toiled, put sleep to rout,
While figuring his span?
What ticking clockwork notched the tail
Of stark Eternity?
Whose microscopic metal scale
Sounded Time’s shoreless sea?
When fifteen billion years have fled,
Some Tuesday afternoon,
The weary sun, now black and dead,
Will burst and smash the moon;
Then bits of moon and shoals of stars
Will rain down endlessly
And stun astounded drunks in bars....
But none will bounce off me!
N.S.W.
THE HURRYING ANT.


SsHjjjfjjlP
I •Wj
j$A
m rM m
M
r 1
z r vfe
rH
pm
ft'
§J(
A~
ri
[it?
Y ?
4*«~
HI
60,000
Serve you
More than 60,000 persons make the products
of the United States Rubber Company.
Together they form theilargest rubber com-
pany in tlie world.
Long before the shop-keeper serves you, this
vast army of mechanics, chemists,
clerks, even coolie cultivators of the rubber
trees, indirectly yet conscientiously serve you.
This individual effort'has made world-popular
the good products of the United States Rub-
ber Company,
United States Rubber Company
(Australasia) Limited,
Head Office: 53 York Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Branches:—
130-2 William Street, 'Melbourne.
78 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
New Zealand Branches-
-72-4 Jervois Quay, Wellington.
And Christchurch.


T2*
YJ
JZ.
o'
ft
SE
O
5S
ft-
s>
S
&
*s
ADVERTISEMENT
My best advertisement
is a mother who has once
used Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy.
Finding it such a
successful remedy she
has made a point of tell-
ing other mothers about
it. They in turn try
Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy, find it success-
ful and pass the news on.
You just ask some
mother who has used
Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy what she thinks
of it. She will tell you
that she depends upon it
for relieving coughs,
colds, croujS and bron-
chitis.
Ask her what enables
her to get her children
through the winter with-
out coughs and colds.
She will say Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy.
Ask her if the colds
she herself catches re-
main with her long. She
will tell you that at the
first approach of a cold
she takes Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy and that
it gives her immediate
relief.
She will tell you that
she always has a bottle
of Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy in her medicine
chest ready for any
emergency.
Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is thoroughly
reliable. Mothers that
have used it know that,
it merits the praise it
receives everywhere.
A JfeaJd.
ED S PD ELZ&O MW
% COUCH REMEDY #
“Granny" Gmmberl/iin
(COPY (SIGHT ED.}
Consistency
Every Goodrich tyre consistently
delivers high mileage.
Every tyre which leaves the
Goodrich factory must conform t 6
. a certain definite standard.
This standard is perfect design,
first class materials, consummate
workmanship.
You know that your next Good-
rich tyre will give you the same good
service as the last.
Goodrich tyres are dependable.
DUVAL $ CO
Sydney,
Melbourne
& Brisbane
Farmers’ Co-operative Union, Adelaide
G
it*
/
//
%
m
H
Goodrich.
ELT.i
Phineas Botten, who died recently at North
Adelaide, was for 20 years a well-known
figure on the Stock Exchange. He was a
successful operator in Westralian and Broken
Hill shares when Kalgoorlies and Barriers
boomed.
New Senators, who were looking for some
limelight, are bitterly disappointed with the
cloistered calm of the Senate, w'here all but
one are in agreement. Still, things might be
worse. Jim Boyd, who used to be in the
Reps., had a look into the Vic. Leg. Council
on a couple of nights to see if he could pos-
sibly stand it; but he had to rush out for
fresh air and a stimulant.
Australia knocks off work so often that
in many lines it gets further and further
away from being self-supporting. Sugar is
one of the primary industries which are
supposed to be this country’s strong point,
but the Queensland crop, which was once as
high as 307,714 tons, is estimated this season
at 160,000 tons; so imports of the nigger
product will be enormous. Drought is blamed,
but against that in N. S. Wales since 1913
there has been a fall of 132,057,000 in the
annual output of bricks, and the drought
shouldn’t hurt bricks.
“Pointsman”: A friend who had been
unable to find decent lodgings at a fair
price in Sydney packed her bag and got what
she wanted at the end of an hour’s run by
rail. The lady of the cottage is comely, and
the household has never seen a bill for fuel.
You see the railway-line runs close to the
house, and a liberal supply of coal falls off
every time a train drives oast. The frugal
lady recently paid £l7 cash for a costume to
attend a wedding in. But why worry? The
Commissioners are going to make the rail-
ways pay by bumping up the rates. In
other words, you and I are going to pay
for that costume.
When the Queensland Government repu-
diated the condition in its pastoral leases
that rent should not be increased more than
50 p.c. at each periodical reappraisement, it
employed some whole-hog Courts to fix the
new figures. One batch dealt with were
rented at £55,356 per annum, so they might
have been lawfully put up, if a refixiilg was
due, to £83,034. But the Courts were feeling
good and they made the rents £114,547. Also
they ante-dated the refixment and charged
the pastoralists £207,017 for back rent.
Father Bull in England has a good deal of
money invested in Queensland grass, and this
was one of the things he thought of when
his thimblerigging debtor asked him for
another £9,000,000.
“Mim” : The methods of some Melbourne
estate-agents make me wonder what their
profits are. One firm here, dealing mostly
in outer suburban subdivisions on the £l-a-
month scheme, sends a salesman by aero-
plane to a country town, where he offers two
prominent citizens a free air-voyage to the
city to inspect real estate. The local cele-
brities return very pleased with the trip and
the land. In exchange for a deposit of £5
the locals can then obtain a short flight and
the privilege of paying Flutter and Co. £1 a
month for any subdivision on their books,
and John Wheatpaddock is not restricted
to the blocks inspected by his fellow-towns-
men—“even more desirable” investments are
to be had if he proves shy.
An absolutely fiendish capacity for invent-
ing billets is the earmark of the Hughes
Ministry. The civil service is somewhat
swelled —it bloated during the war, and all
its later efforts to diminish itself have fallen
flat. So it is proposed to appoint a Board
of Management to look into things hitherto
looked into by a Commissioner. There will
be three Boarders, presumably at the usual
£lOOO a year or more. When they find a
department overmanned or too expensive
they will draw attention to it and recom-
mend the chief man to make changes. If
he remains torpid they may draw the atten-
tion of the Minister. If he remains in un-
broken slumber they may draw the attention
of his majority in Parliament. And appa-
rently the subject ends there, except that the
Boarders will draw their salaries.
Time and other things roll on, but the Bill-
ingsgative Assembly of N. S. Wales doesn’t
improve on acquaintance. At one time a
speech was supposed to be a monologue
entertainment, and it was alleged that the
argument in it occasionally convinced some-
body and altered his vote, and so altered the
policy of the country. Now a speech is a
dialogue, or a case of a dozen men shouting
at and interrupting one, and the one
dropping the thread of his discourse to bel-
fbw back. As the votes are all nailed down
and counted in ladvance, all this “slack” and
“back chat” means absolutely nothing.
A quarrel between a cabman and his passen-
ger about the fare, conducted on a street
corner at midnight, is quite as illuminating.
The curious point is that the Ministers,
including the great financier who has more
responsibility on his hands than all the bank
managers of the country put together, and
the unparalleled engineer who controls more
miles of railway than any ordinary private
railway manager as well as roads and
bridges and sundries, and the health expert,
and the universal provider who looks after
the fish supply and other things, and the
universal philanthropist who attends to the
poor and suffering—all are expected to sit
in this dialogue entertainment and swap
Billingsgate. Many years ago a Maoriland
paper asked concerning the N. S. Wales
Assembly:
Is it lagdom in the blood
Of a convict-gotten brood
Ever breaking out like scrofula in language loud
and lewd,
Or what is it that ails
These men of -New South Wales _
That they emulate the rhetoric of the bagnios and
gaols?
One of these days the question of keeping
Ministers outside such a Parliament —out-
side of the Billingsgative Assembly where
members “snap and snarl and rail and bite
like third-rate lawyer sharks” —will become
really urgent.


All Goody ear Advantages
in Tyres for Small Cars
h
30 X 3i Goody ear All-WeatherTread Tyre is just as "Goodyear”
as its bigger brothers. There is only one point of difference
—size, and, of course, price. Otherwise it is a facsimile
of the larger tyres.
The Goodyear name and reputation
and the Goodyear Guarantee of Service
are warranted just as strongly when a
30 x is sold as when you huy a
larger tyre.
30 x 3 Y* Goodyear Double Cure
All-Weather Tread -
£lO : 0 : 0
30 x 3% Goodyear Single Cure
Anti-Skid Tread -
£8 : 3
0
The owner of a Ford, Chevrolet, Max-
well, Dort or an Overland 4 will appre-
ciate the safety and comfort and the
great economy and wonderful mileage
delivered hy Goodyear 30 x 3| Tyres.
Goodyear Heavy Tourist Tubes are thick, strong
tubes that reinforce casings properly. Why risk a
good casing with a cheap tube? Goodyear Heavy
Tourist Tubes cost little more than tubes of less
merit. 30 x3Y size in water- O'! 1 1 A
proof bag ----- S'X I -L_L • U
Brandies & Agencies
All Principal Cities
Service Stations and
Dealers Everywhere
IX


! M
a
Hose of Luxite
Nobody can have better
Hose than Luxite—manu-
factured from the softest,
longest fibres and strong-
est yarn obtainable. Its
serviceability is a cer-
tainty.
Insist on having this
brand. Our enormous pro-
duction saves expense in
many ways, hence “ Lux-
ite” prices are always
low. The soft, full-bodied
shimmer of Luxite Hose
is acquired.
If your dealer is unable
to supply you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
50 York Street :: SYDNEY.
Baby is a
Connoisseur
in his little way. He likes,
and must haver the best.
Mellin’s Food is the proved
most efficacious equivalent to
Mother’s Milk.
Satisfactory feeding is half the
battle. Then, what a boon to the
mother to use a food which requires
no tiresome cooking or preparation.
Mellins
Food
is made in a flash—needs no cooking
Send for sample of Mellin’s Food and Hand-
book for Mothers 'The Care of Infants'—Free
Messrs. Goldin & Co. Proprietary
Ltd., Sydney
WARATAH ’-ji
FENCING M
.jib* i**- i
It
v '/rM
srgM
Free to
Farmers.
The Waratah Fencing Booklet
—it is full of vital points on
fencing. Write to-day for your
free copy.
Waratah Wire strains tighter,
costs less.
AUSTRAL NAIL CO. PTT. Ltd.
'Justbau^
Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE.
PIOM
i-1.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
fe-Aty Address
f * by tlie Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
.New York, U.S.A.
Postage to Uftited
States, 3d.
A PERFECT
SHAVE.
It's British.
gfh
Christopher Johnson & Co.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Their Famous Full Hollow-Ground
Metropolitan Razor.
PRICE 10/6,
Of all Stores.
If unable to procure send Postal Note to their Agents.
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, SO York Btreet,
328 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
BYDNEY.
SKK
BALL
BEARINGS
The factory engineer who installs SKF
Self-Aligning Ball Bearings throughout his
plant has done the utmost towards reaching
highest efficiency with maximum economy,
for SKF s save from 50% to 100% of their
value yearly.
SKF Ball Bearings are made from Swedish
Crucible Steel, are accurately finished and uniformly
hard thoughout.
SKF Bearings do NOT become hot, hence
they prevent loss of power due to excessive
friction. They assure smooth, free running,
saving of power, saving of belts and supreme
durability.
Specify SKF Bearings (the World’s
best) for every part of your plant that
needs bearings.
SKF
fcitsa -
GARDNER,
W£RN
& GO.,
Power & Light
Engineers.
MELBOURNE—
-384 City Road.
Showrooms—
' 369 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY-
-225 Clarence St.
BRISBANE-
-367 Queen Street
Super-Excellent QUALITY!
Preserve your footwear and keep the uppers soft and pliable by using
BOSTOCK’S SHOE DRESSINGS.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
They are super-excellent in quality, and are produced by leather
experts to REPLENISH THE NATURAL OILS of the
leather, in addition to giving a brilliant and lasting polish.
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey’ and Dark Grey.
IN BOTTLES AND TUBES. Obtainable Everywhere.
BQSTQCK’S VIOLO POLISHES, LTD., SYDNEY.
OSTER Bull-Dog Stocks and Dies are designed
and constructed for outdoor work in the trench,
mud or sand, as well as for use in the shop for
fine work.
Put a Bull-Dog Ratchet on your hard jobs.
The work will be easier than you f expect.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Clias. Atkins & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Perth.
John Danks & Son Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
John Danks & Son Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Parke & Lacy Co. Ltd., Sydney.
R. L. Scrutton & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Swans, Ltd., Sydney.
Fredc. Ash, Ltd., Newcastle.
Paul & Gray, Ltd., Newcastle.
A. Goninan /& Co., Etd., Newcastle.
T. J. Cane r& Co., Etd., Hobart.
McPherson’s Pty., Etd., Sydney.
McPherson’s Pty., Ltd, Melbourne.
Engineering- Supply Co. of Aus., Etd.,
Brisbane.
And many other Machinery', Hardware and Plumbers' 1 Merchants.
SPARE DIES AND PARTS CARRIED |IN STOCK.
Factory Representative: CHARLES WRIGHT, 16 Hunster Street, Sydney
The
MANUFACTURING CO.,
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.S.A.,
Screwing Tackle Specialists.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
L. H. Troughton who is to captain the
amateur team which will visit M.L. this summer,
is a member of a famous cricketing family. He
was one of the stars of Dulwich School over 20
years,, ago, and his father played for Kent in the
mid-V ictorian epoch. Lionel Tennyson, another
certainty, is the only surviving son of a former
Australian G.-G. —his two brothers were killed at
the war. He is one of Hampshire’s most slashing
bats.
* * * *
Raymond, the S’African tennis crack, won
the Olympic Singles at Antwerp after a hard-fought
game with Kumagae, the Jap champion. Kumagae,
who has been playing fine tennis in the U.S., is
reckoned the superior of his countryman Shimidzu,
who recently ran into the All-Comers semi-finals at
Wimbledon. Raymond, on the other hand, must have
improved on his Davis Cup form. In the first heat
of that argument a while back the Dutch pair,
\ iermerkoo] and Van Lennep, both beat him badly.
* * * *
“Stripper”: Bookies are not allowed to
operate on the racecourse in Adelaide. I went to
one of them a few days ago, and found it quite
interesting to watch about a score of the literary
gents and their private secretaries. By not getting
upon soap-boxes they rendered themselves as incon-
spicuous as Domain orators. So cute were their
methods of giving and taking cash that a'newchum
from Thibet might have mistaken them before a race
for button sellers, and after a race for philanthro-
pists distributing war gratuities. All the detectives,
I understand, come from Thibet,
“The Ant”: The zeal of South Melbourne
football fans is demonstrated by the sufferings of
Dick Reid. Dick Reid is not a footballer, and is
not directly concerned with football, but twice within
the month he has been assaulted by night by small
gangs of whom he knows nothing, and who, according
to his understanding, can know nothing of him.
On the last occasion the policeman who picked him
out of the gutter was a sympathetic soul. He called
to see Richard next day, propped up in bed, and
wearing just about as many bandages as a man
his size could accommodate, and they talked the
matter over. “I have no enemies I .know of,” the
victim insisted. John Hop laid a soothing hand on
him. Ye have no inimies iv yer own, may be,”
but yi’ll know no peace till you- shave
oft that moustache and lave off the brown suit yer
wear in’. Yer the dead image i v , the cinthral
umpire.
* * * *
“Rooinek”: The late Walter Winans’s
own accounts of his deer-stalking and wild-boar
hunting exploits do not tally with the statement
(B. 19/8/’2O) that he never killed anything except
from necessity. Ope of his hobbies was to' gallop
after deer and shoot them from horseback with a
revolver. He was a marvellous shot, but intensely
conceited. Once, at the “running deer” competition
at Bisley, Winans’s strongest rival was a Tasmanian,
i ‘ .l-I" y ,' v e, of Campbell • Town. Winans made
a beautiful shot, placing his bullet exactly in the
right spot behind the “deer’s” shoulder. He sung
out over the heads of the spectators, “What do you
think of that, Clarke?” “Very good, if you can
do it again,” replied Clarke quietly. Winans’s next-
shot was a clean miss. Clarke won, and carried off
the coveted silver cup—the only Australian who ever
did win it.
V * * *
There has been much argument in the
Adelaide Golf Club over the play for the champion-
snip of S. Aus. All-comers played two qualifying
rounds, and the lowest eight scores were to take
part in the championship proper. But before that
started two of the eight were disqualified. One
had forgotten to pay the trifling entrance fee for
the competition. The other—it doesn’t sound pos-
sible, but it is a fact —was wiped out because his
opponent of the qualifying round had not paid. The
committee held that, it being the duty of each com-
petitor to check his companion’s score, the checking
by an unqualified person doesn’t count; and it had
to obey the strict letter of the law. Naturally there
is much discussion as to whether it is the law, and
it it is whether the authorities should not have found
some way round it. Sport will have new terrors if
a man starting a game of anything has to inquire
oi ins opponent if any fees are owing.
* * *
J. “15-30” : Tennis-champion Norman
Brookes, who was beaten last year by Patterson and
Anderson, was again walloped the other day by Jack
Hawkes, a Geelong boy, two sets to one. Ilawkes is
showing great form, his fast forehand drive and
accurate cross-court hitting lifting him into many a
winning position. But Brookes was playing on un-
accustomed asphalt, whereon his favorite grass-court
game loses a lot of its bite and cleverness. A few
days previously Hawkes added Rod Heath to his
victims’ and thereby increased his chances of selection
for tne Davis Cup. Jt is doubtful however, whether
the youth is quite in the Davis Cup class. A left-
hander, like Brookes, he can put any amount of spin
into Ins service and has a good collection of hard,
slicing shots, but he is not strong enough to stand
the strain of big battles. Moreover, his careful base-
line game wouldn’t provide enough trouble for tlm
kind of opposition he is likelv to meet.
* * * *
From a Digger who has played with them
all
Who will take the field for Australia when the
hrst lest begins in Sydney next December? The
captaincy seems to lie between two men—Armstrong
and Collins. Collins, no doubt, showed tact and
judgment whilst leading the A.I.F. team, but he had
there a disciplined side, of some nine months’ com-
panionship. By the time they landed here his sole
duty as captain consisted in watching his opponents.
A twitch of the ear was enough for his own lot’
Armstrong, in addition to ably leading Vic. for
years, has had ample Test-match experience here
and abroad. He gets my vote. At the wickets
there is only one man possible—Carter,. We lack
a really fast bowler and a front-rank googly per-
former, our respective best being Jack Gregory and
Mai ley. Gregory atones for a slight deficiency in
speed by his quick rise off the pitch. Mailev is
a hard-luck bowler, but there is none better in his
line available. Amongst the left-handed brigade we
have Whitty, still the best of the swingers, and
Charlie Macartney, who, though slower, is more
accurate. He also swings. For right-hand medium’
pace-stuff there are Kelleway and Ryder. The latter
has not improved his bowling by increasing his
speed, but that should be easily 'dropped. He is
also a free bat and a good field—the utility man
which every team needs. Armstrong can relieve
either the googly or medium-pace bowlers without
much cost and with every chance of a wicket. So
far eight have been accounted for, five being clink-
ing bats. The remaining three must be first-class
bats and fields. The names most prominent at pre-
sent are Andrews, Mayne, Ransford, Dr. Park and
Bardsley, the 1 order given being that of merit.
Bardsley’s main claim is not the runs he scores so
much as his capacity as an opening left-handed bats-
man. Against which he has the marked failing of
never taking the sting out of the bowling, however
freely he scores, a thing that one of the Charlie
Mac. type often does in a few overs. Probably one
of the soundest opening batsmen in Australia is
Claude Tozer, but his professional duties will pro-
bably prevent him from playing even State cricket
regularly. The team then resolves itself into
Armstrong (captain). Carter, Gregory, Whitty,
Mailey, Macartney, Kelleway, Andrews, Mayne, Rans-
ford (or Park), Ryder. The weakness of this com-
bination consists in the fielding, a defect which is
difficult to remedy without considerably weakening
either the bowling or hatting or both. Of the three
batsmen who are not bowlers (Andrews, Mayne and
Ransford), only the last is available for continuous
outfield duty, as Andrews’s work at cover is too good
to lose and Mayne is only happy at point. Which
means that Ryder must do boundary work. And
finally there is an unknown quantity—the youngsters
who are bound to come on during the coming three
months.
(Continued on page 88.)


One Half Million
Factory produces 500,000 cars in 67
Months, and exactly Six Years after
Starting Sees Monthly Output at 15,000.
An even half-million Dodge Brothers cars
bad been produced when,, on June 30, the
car- bearing number 500.000 passed through
the inspection • department of the Dodge
Brothers factory at Detroit. This accom-
plishment, within 07 months after production
was first started at the plant, marks, not so
much a record of automobile production,
though it is no small feat in itself, as it does
the results of a system of industrial and com-
mercial co-operation which is larger in its
scope than any mere production programme.
The arrival on the shipping platform of car
number “500,000” was delayed for a while
on July 1, so that it might form the central
figure of a quiet celebration in the plant
courtyard. And here it was that men from
the big Dodge Brothers plant were told
something of the history which had led up
to this accomplishment and its promise for
the future.
Incidentally, the date, July 1, was a his-
torical one in the car’s ancestry, since it was
on July 1, 1914, that the Dodge Brothers
finished their contract with a large producer
of automobiles and turned their attention to
the car which they intended henceforth to
build and market, a car bearing their own
name. By December all experimental and
road work had been completed, and in that
month 245 cars were built. During* June,
1920, it is made known that, in spite of
hindrances that have been felt everywhere in
the industry, traffic delays inward, and ship-
ping obstructions outward, more than 15,000
care were made and shipped.
The figures on past and present production
followed a description of the conditions that
surrounded the first marketing of the car,
based as it was entirely on the known
integrity of its builders. About the first of
August, 1914, the first experimental car was
ready to go on the road. There was not a
thing on the car that would identity it.
there was not even a nameplate; there was
not a name on the tools. The idea was to
keep the identity of the car absolutely
unknown. Not a word was said about it —
and finally it was decided that the car was
good enough to build.
The demand from that day to this has
been so great that Dodge Brothers have never
been able to ’ supply oeough cars. The
demand to-day is even greater than it was
in the beginning.
In December, 1914, 245 cars were built.
During June, 1920, 15,000 were built and
shipped. Starting with car No. 1, 500,000
cars were made in 67 months—half a million
—a record that has never before been
equalled.
Everyone in the organisation did his work
honestly and diligently. But for that united
effort they would never have a plant to-dav
employing more than 22,000 men, with
families representing fully 100,000 souls.
Four big factors have entered into this
splendid achievement: The purpose to supply
the pubhc with an exceptional car—and the
ability to do it; the car itself'; the high
character of dealer representation, and
■sane sales and service policies. Such
factors, working as a unit, could not do les3
I? ari kuild precisely the kind of a structure
that characterises Dodge Brothers’ business
ana that of their dealers to-day.
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR. CAR
The satisfaction of Dodge Brothers four hundred
thousand owners is not casual, but deep and pro-
found.
Multiply them by the average family of even three.
Remember that all of these are warm friends.
Then think of that leaven of thought, leavening the
whole mass.
You will begin to understand, then, why Dodge
Brothers have been building new buildings ever
since the business began.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
Dodge Brothers
Canada Cycle & Motor C 6. (Victoria) Pt£., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland) Ltd*,
Brisbane.
Standardised Motors., Limited
Sydney.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
Cheney Motor C 0.., lAd.,
Adelaide.
SAFEGUARD YOU* health
OtJ.ColUs Broy^
CWorodyae
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cousjh of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE. RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CIIAUM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
SOLD IN BOTTLES.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England , 1/3 and 8/-.
Made in England.
.
The ‘PLUM’
is the
Razor for Me!”
This noted Razor is no new invention—
thousands are sold annually. The “Plum”
requires but little stropping, as its finely-
tempered edge keeps keen against the
stiffest beard, and gives just that smooth,
velvety shave which every rpan appreci-
ates.
Price 12/6, post free.
We keep it in order for two years free of
charge.
g
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle 12/6
Pair in Double Case 25/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle 15/6
Pair in Double Case ••• 30/-
(This line makes a handsome present.)
“Plum” Strops, each.. 7/6 and 10/6
“Plum” Strop Dressing 1/2
All the above Post Free.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
‘N3Miiv a oivao
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
ft-
enslancf
c allingi
fh
To the Tourist, Scientist, Investor
and, with a hundred voices from her millions
of acres, to the Man in search of Land.
Free Information on all subjects
available at once on receipt of this coupon.
Namp
Address.
Queensland Government intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Brisbane.
S.B.
gf
Consult Us!
On "Water Supply
and Irrigation.
We have a Large 8 Varied Stock of Pumping Machinery
ir„ „ Some Specialities of our own make are:—
Plants m iUS ‘ 1,8 C ‘ Walking Beam Pumping
HwcnlPs 2“ . Eng “\ es - JB C. Centrifugal Pumps.
WeU Pump B: C Ser S BraSS ArtCSian and Deep '
SyP p ) o l intl. indmill Pumps> Pum P Rods; Drive Well
Black. Galvaiflsed a^^team* 11 ‘“N*atk?nar’°Black V * S ’ w' f C Pit tings; “National” Pipe,
Standard). onal Black and Galvanised Casing (the World’s
h
gfh
Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd.
Merchants, Engineers & Contractors,
418-424 8 450-460 Ann Street
(Trams
pass
near by).
Brisbane.
Works: Yeerongpilly
z
TO


I'ul'ln III! »illlll iIHI 'IH;i ■■■ill
Ml l|l 111 iHIIIII ii.'ll|iifi,lll' Mil
Saunders’ Pearl and Aquamarine Cluster
Bar Brooch, 9ct. Gold, 12/6.
A. Saunders’ Aquamarine 15ct. Gold Brooch,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ loot. Gold Bar Brooch, set Pearl,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
r.’i 18ct. Gold,
£l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Trefoil Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Fine
Diamond Ring,
18et. Gold,
£3/15/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£25.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Wristlet Watch, 30/-,
40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-. 80/-
Gold filled, £4/10/-, £5.
A. Saunders’ fine
Diamond Necklet,
15ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Silver Hunting Keyless Lever,
Jewelled Escapement, £B. Extra Jewelled,
£4/10/-. Guaranteed, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ fine
Diamond Necklet,
15ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold
Links, 20/-, 25/-,
30/-. 15ct. Gold, 40/-
50/-
A. Saunders’ Fine
Diamond King,
18ct. Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold
Signet Ring, 20/-
150 t., £2.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, daintily en-
graved, 18/0.
A. Saunders’
Lady’s Signet Ring,
Set. Gold, 15/-;
15ct., 25/-
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s Fine Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’
Fine Diamond
Scarf Pin, 15ct.
Gold, £3.
A Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Nellie Stewart Secret Snap and Joint
Bracelet, £2/10/-; lighter, 40/-, 30/-; heavier, £3.
15ct. Gold, £4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-. 15ct. Gold,
£3/10/-, £3.
A. Saunders’
Diamond and
Pearl Scarf
Pin, 15ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller,
805-815 George Street (opp. Railway Station), Sydney
A. Saunders’ Aquamarine or Yellow Sapphire
Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £±
A. Saunders’ Pearl and Aquamarine Bar
Brooch, 9ct. Gold, 10/6.
A. Saunders’ Pearl Set Brooch, 15et. Gold,
£2/15/-
A. Saunders’
Diamond Cluster
Ring, 18et.Gold,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18et. Gold,
£l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring,
18ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct., Gold,
£23.
A. Saunders’
Diamond Boat-
shape Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ Fine
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Wristlet wVVatch, 23/-, 30/-,
40/-. Silver, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-.
£>ct. Gold, £4/10/-
J*
At 1
a.m.
m
21
■ -
t
mm
/ /
mt
. ■ -.... m
tW> s
\ m >
w. ■
After the dance or theatre —when
you reach home late and tired—that
is just when “Milkmaid” Coffee &
Milk proves its worth.
In a moment you prepare delicious,
creamy coffee with “ Milkmaid ”
and hot water only! No delay; no
trouble. No sugar; no milk required.
Indoors or out-of-doors, “Milkmaid”
Coffee 8z Milk is the handy prepar-
ation at all hours. You need
“Milkmaid” in your home.
Milkmaid COFFEE & MILK
a fann /ea. * Made by Nestle’s in Australia.
A29


Amusement*.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
1" IVOLI THEATRE.. SYDNEY.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.30.
ROBERT COURTNEIDGE’S ENGLISH COMEDY
COMPANY in
THE MAX FROM TORONTO.
Plans at Nicholson's and the Tivoli.
“piVORI THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEX.T, SEPT. 18.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents Miss LEE WHITE,
in London’s Latest Musical Success,
THE GIRL FOR THE BOY.
“IT’S FRENCH—IT’S NOT RUDE.”
Prices as usual.
I_| K It M A .1 E S T V ’ S. S Y I) N K Y.
1 * Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW ENGLISH COMEDY
COMPANY in
YES, UNCLE.
A Musical Comedy in two acts.
Plans at Paling’s.
CR I T 10 It 1 O N T II IS A T It IS. SYDNEY.
Lessees: J. C. -WILLIAMSON LTD.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE MUSICAL COMEDY SUPREME,
IRENE.
Plans at Paling's.
UNI O N PIC TIIIt E TIIICAT It IC S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS.
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
KING’S THEATRE, ME1,15() U It N IS.
Lessees: BAILEY * Git A Nl’
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
JOHN D. O’HARA in
THREE WISE FOOLS.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, SEPT. 18.
Revival of GILBERT & SULLIVAN OPERAS.
THE GONDOLIERS.
THEATRE ROYAL.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF OUTCAST.
SATURDAY NEXT. SEPTEMBER 18.
PENELOPE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN & JOHN FULLER, LTD.
Direction ALLAN WILKIE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
ALLAN WILKIE AND COMPANY, including
FREDISWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
MACBETH.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 25.
HAMLET.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
Amusements.
jygAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
OLIVE JOYCE in
THE THOROUGHBRED.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURIvE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
BUCK JONES in
THE LAST STRAW,
and
EUGENE O’BRIEN in
A FOOL AND HIS MONEY.
Prices as usual.
THE
GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
KITANNIA THEATRE. .MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Tenders.
THE RAVENSWOOD DEEP
MINES LIMITED.
(In Liquidation.)
Ravenswood, Queensland.
mENDERS ARE INVITED for the pur
X chase, in one lot, of the whole of the
Machinery, Plant and Buildings. Cata-
logues and conditions of Tendering obtain-
able on application to the undersigned.
TENDERS CLOSE on TUESDAY,
TWENTY-EIGHTH day of SEPTEMBER,
1920, at the office of
A. LAURENCE WILSON,
Mining Engineer,
Ravenswood, Quenesland.
Situation Wanted.
Experienced cartoonist—Political, sport-
ing, news, cartoons, and general newspaper illus-
trations —seeks engagement on newspaper. Samples
submitted on request.
H. NIELSEN, Box 19 Valley P. 0., Brisbane, Q.
For Sale.
STEAM WAGGON, 5-ton Clayton & Shuttleworth,
first-class order. Price £l2OO. Inspection
at 98 Marion Street, Leichhardt. For further par-
ticulars apply Yerranderie Silver Mining Company,
N.L., 107 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Used the
World Over
'<3
MOTOR
...CARS
OWNERS OF FORD ONE-TON TRUCKS
continually feel the need of AN ADDITIONAL TOP-SPEED GEAR when
the truck is running light and speed is necessary.
THE MOORE FOUR-SPEED
GEAR-BOX FOR FORDS
is giving absolute satisfaction on
Ford cars and trucks all over
Australia.
gf
THE NEW NO. 5 HEAVY DUTY MODEL for Ford Worm drive 1-ton
Trucks will become A STANDARD FITTING.
A big shipment is due by the S.S. VENTURA, of which a large part is
already sold.
Westcott, Hazell & Co. Limited
Suppliers of All Motor Accessories, 245-7 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
h
Not an imitation
but a Re-creation
That is what the New Edison renders—
a Re-creation so complete and satisfying
it is utterly impossible to distinguish the
artist’s voice from the instrument s re-
creation when heard in direct comparison.
Yes, it sounds incredible —but before audiences of over two millions the
New Edison has defied even the most critical to detect the difference.
You need music in your home —it is a necessary relaxation after the day’s
rush and bustle, and it is entertainment for your friends. Have the best
music the world offers —Re-created by the New Edison.
Learn more about this wonderful instrument. Write for illustrated litera-
ture, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney. ..
I'and tfie toilers step orows
lighter- me!
His day’s work smokes his (G.B.D)
A sweet, cooFsmoke, from parch and tongue-bite free.
A
mm
GBD
Many Popular Shapes.
the perfect
pipe.
Sold Everywhere.
Missine Friends.
ROBERT HUNTER—Deceased.
TI7TLL any person knowing anything of the where-
W abouts of MISS HUNTER, a sister of the
above-named, formerly of County Tyrone, Ireland,
■who is stated to have married a Mr. Beaty and to
have been residing in Australia, please commun'cate
with the LOCAL DEPUTY PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Christchurch, New Zealand.
ANYONE knowing whereabouts A. T. WILD, late
Shire Clerk of Banana, Queensland, please com-
municate immediately, Mrs. Wild, The Gables,
Denison Street, Rockhampton.
We Desire
to Buy
gfh
PLATINUM, at £2O per ounce.
OLD GOLD and SILVER, for
Melting Purposes.
DIAMONDS, PEARLS and other
Fine Gems.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
23 Hunter St.,
BYDNEY.
AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET
OF THE
Commonwealth Bank of Bustralla
AT 30th JUNE, 1920.
LIABILITIES.
Deposits, Accrued Interest
and Rebate . . .. 4
;st £ s. d.
. . 41,002,908 11 11
Bills Payable and other
Liabilities . . . . ■ » 1,673,297 12 11
Savings Bank Department—
Depositors' Balances
(with Interest accrued) 17,982,402 4 0
Capital—Debentures Issued
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,378,052 9 6
Redemption Fund .. .. 1,378,052 9 6
63,414,713 7 10
Contingent Liabilities —
Outstanding Credits per
Contra
264,698 19 11
£63,679,412 7 9
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion and Cash Bal-
ances
Australian Notes
Money at Short Call in
London
Investments —
British, Colonial and Gqv-
e r n m e n t Securities
(face value £9,458,256
13s. 3d.)
Com’wealth Gov’ment Se-
curities (face value,
£8,718,162 7s. 9d.)
Fixed Deposits of other
Banks
Bills Receivable in London
and Remittances in Tran-
sit
Bills Discounted, Loans and
Advances to Customers
and other sums due to
the Bank
Bank Premises
Liabilities of Customers
and Others on Letters of
Credit per Contra
£ s. d.
. 6,092,583 19 7
1,964,722 10 0
21,430,000 0 0
9,350,436 11 3
8,625,026 17 6
1,029,000 0 0
1,319,803 14 1
13,194,692 15 1
408,447 0 4
£63,414,713 7 10
264,698 19 11
£63,679,412 7 9
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS.
Cr.
To Reserve Fund ..
„ Redemption Fund
196,302 2 5
196,302 2 5
£392,604 4 10
By Profits for Half-year
ended 30th June, 1920 ••
392,604 4 10
Dr.
RESERVE FUND.
Cr.
To Balance
1,378,052 9 6
£1,378,052 9 6
By Balance ..
~ Transfer from Profit
and Boss Account of
one half of the Net
Profits ..
1,181,750 7 1
196.302 2 5
£1.378,052 9 6
Dr.
REDEMPTION FUND.
Cr.
To Balanco
1,378,052 9 6
\
£1,378,052 9 6
By Balance . .
~ Transfer from Profit
and Loss Account of
one half of the Net
Profits
1,181,750 7 1
19C.302 2 5
£1,375,052 9 6
Gold Coin held for the Treasurer of the Commonwealth.
The Bank also holds in Gold Coin for the Treasurer of the Common-
wealth
£11,637,718 10 0
We certify that the above Balance Sheet,
compiled from Statements furnished by
the several officers of the Bank, is true
and correct.
H. T. ARMITAGE, Chief Accountant,
D. B. MURDOCH, Branch Accountant.
DENISON MILLER.
Cover nor.
Sydney, 25th August, 1920
AUDITOR-GENERAL’S REPORT.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 20 of the Commonwealth Ban». - c ,
19X1-1914 X have to report that the Aggregate Balance Sheet of the Commonwealth Bairn
of Australia for the half-year ended the 30th June, 1920, has been examined by officers
under my direction, as well as by myself. The several items of the account, as above set
forth, have been verified with the books and vouchers, with the Securities held bj' tne
Bank, and with Statements certified by the respective Managers and Accountants ot
the obtained all the information and explanations required by me. The said
Balance Sheet has been prepared in the form prescribed by the Regulations under the
Act, and, in my opinion, it exhibits a correct view of the affairs of the Bank.
I have also to report that the sum of £11,637,71S 10s. above set forth was held oy
the Bank in Gold Coin for the Treasurer of the Commonwealth.
7th Sept., 1920. J. W. ISRAEL.. Auditor-General for the Commonwealth.


A
m
m
mi
m
0
ee
ail
f
isa
9
0
TheJLAGER
IthoutaßiVal
T*
m
Prepare for Hot Weather!
Soon the hot days will make light underwear essential. There is none
so cool and light,' so absorbent, so comfortable, as the tropic-weight
Lace Cotton Underwear. Its open texture makes it ideal for hot days.
Supplies are limited —so scarce that it is advisable for orders to be
placed as early as possible.
LACE COTTON SHIRTS, fsleeves.
Full-length Pants, 1/- extra.
English All-wool Black Cashmere 4-Hose, 6/6 pair; 37/6 half-dozen.
Peapes’ Pay Postage.
PEA P E S & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Yes, Uncle”
Criterion “Irene”
Tivoli “The Man from Toronto”
Hoyt’s ; Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Gondoliers”
Royal “Penelope”
King’s “Three Wise Fools”
Princess’s “Macbeth”
Tivoli “The Girl for the Boy”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciarium Dancing
♦
MACBETH.
With thoughts of battle, murder, sudden death,
Our mind is thralled since we saw “Macbeth”—
A bonnie, gruesome play, of special note
For them who speeches spout, or love to quote
Remembered lines concerning many things—
Ambition, spectres, daggers, cauldrons, kings,
And consciences—a play to blanch soft cheeks,
Make stout legs tremble in their pants or breeks,
And eyeballs glare whene’er, through chatt’ring
teeth,
Men tell of witches on a blasted heath
Inciting Mac. to compass bloody deeds,
Or speak of ghastly spooks at royal feeds:
A play that warns ycung men beginning life
To pause and think before they take a wife.
For Macbeth had a heart full well inclined
To do the decent thing by humankind
According to the notions of his time; he might
Have died an honest, self-respecting man; despite
His dreams of fame, his itchings for renown,
He ne’er had walked in blood to win a crown
But for his wife, who paced about the room,
And talked, and stormed, and lured him to his doom.
0 weak Macbeth! thy valor ne’er would yield
To fiercest foe on dreadful battlefield;
And yet thou lack’dst the courage-to assert
Thy nobler nature, and with answers curt
Repel the temptings of a piece of skirt
That smear’dst thy name with everlasting dirt!
Oh, why, ensanguined fool who once was white,
Whose brow, unbranded, shone with virtue bright,
Didst thou get married? Iladst thou never wed
Thy hands had not been dyed a shameful red.
At thee, unnerved by presence of a spook,
No Banquo’s ghost his gory locks had shook.
For thee, thrice cursed with the curse of Cain,
No Birnam Wood had marched to Dunsinane.
Oh, why, weak husband, damned for evermore,
Didst thou not live and die a bachelor?
“Macbeth,” as staged by Allan Wilkie at
Melbourne Princess’s, is, in the words of the
programme, “a compromise between the
Elizabethan mode of representation and
the over-elaborated scenic effects customary
on the modern stage.” Changes of scene
are .suggested by a morsel of backcloth in an
environment of unchanging green curtains,
and sometimes crude pieces of furniture are
essential to the illusion, as in the banquet
scene, where Banquo’s appalling ghost
jumps the royal seat at the head of a bleak
table, and other guests around the unfestive
boards are .supposed to wonder what Mac-
beth is talking to. Otherwise the mounting
is hardly more elaborate than in Asche’s
performance of “Julius Caesar” at the Town
“The Rose of Killar-
ney," at Sydney
Playhouse.
Roland Conway as
Byron Stoddart, of
New York.
Hall. The effect,
considered in a
poetically - dramatic
spirit, is always
interesting and
often deeply im-
press i v e. If it
attained a ma s-
terly standard of
elocution all round,
an d included a
few more person-
alities as powerful
a s the
performance would
be altogether pre-
ferable to an ordi-
nary costly pro-
duction of the
wordy tragedy, see-
ing that practically
the whole of it is
now presented in
2i hours, including
one interval o f
eight minutes.
AA 7 ilkie’s experi-
ment deserves pub-
lic support. It is
a worthy s'ho w.
suggesting fine possibilities. It gives in-
telligent actors, old and young, chances they
never get in modern commercial plays.
Allan AA’ilkie did many things impressively
in addition to his ravings at Banquo’s ghost.
He was the mainstay of scenes with his
wife, before and after the murder of Dun-
can, and his remorse was thrillingly ex-
pressed. Considering how ill-adapted are his
dry, uneven tones to Shakspearean speeches
Wilkie does great things with his great part.
Second prize can be awarded to Edwards
for his Banquo. In life he acted most com-
mendably, and after its fitful fever he was
the best ghost the present historian ever saw.
The importance of Wilkie’s personality lends
a little weight to the Lady Macbeth of Miss
Hunter-Watts; but she lacks the voice
necessary to explain her Ladyship’s influence
over the warrior. “Macbeth” is to go a
fortnight, and then “Hamlet.”
Marie Tempest is more at home in “The
Duke of Ivilliecrankie,” which came to light
at Melbourne Royal on Saturday. She
appears as Mrs. Mulholland* the rich widow
of a glue merchant, and is pursued for her
coin by Henry Pitt Welby, a languid
and shiftless M.P. who shows his brightest
side at meals. The pair are thrown together
in a remote Scawtch castle, whither the Duke
of the title has abducted Lady Henrietta
Addison for the purpose of tryipg a hurri-
cane assault on her cold young heart. It
is a gloomy situation, made further dis-
tressing by bagpipe noises and lofty remarks,
but Marie Tempest seizes every opportunity
to win a smile with her pungent tongue.
Mostly her acting amounts to striking dressy
attitudes and humbling the object of her
smouldering affections, but the sharp, stac-
cato habit of many previous comedies enables
her to make the most of her lines. Graham
Browne, as Welby, is a frank low-comedy
figure revealing strong symptoms of an
absent intellect. He is fairly ridiculous
when, armed with a giggle and an eyeglass,
he creeps about with the stoop of a lumbago
victim; but £ot up in the last act in a small
Glengarry and khaki shorts, and with a
grotesque cross of sticking-plaster on an
“THREE WISE
FOOLS." AT
MELBOURNE
KING'S.
Robert Toms and John D. O'Hara.
allegedly cut knee, he seems about the last
man that Mrs. Mulholland would choose to
muddle her bank-account. The young Duke,
who smuggles his charmer (Dorothy Hamil-
ton) to his castle, is played by Roger Barry
in a boyish, breezy style which is more con-
vincing than the acting of the lady. Doris
Gilham presents a smiling Countess with a
catty humor, Kate Towers and Kepp-el
Stephenson are aged servants of the Killie-
crankie castle, and Ashton .Tarry has a few
inglorious minutes as an incredible press-
man in search of copy. “Penelope” is the
bill for Saturday.
“lolanthe” at Melbourne Majesty’s is not
lasting long enough for the Fairy Queen to
develop a sense of humor or a more satis-
factory contralto, but she is a comely piece
of immortality for Private Willis to fly away
with, anyhow. . The charming show will be
ousted by “The Gondoliers” on Saturday.
All this time “Three AVise Fools” are
serving customers at Melbourne King’s with
condensed American milk of human kindness
and candy syrup.
At Melbourne Tivoli the follies and frail-
ties of “Bran Pie” make their final appeal
for forgiveness on Friday night. On Satur-
day the same co. will deal with “The Girl
for the Boy.”
Tragedies, etc., in paint and pencil:—
If a reasonable standard had been set by the Vic.
Artists this year, at least half of their present show
would never have been hung. Many of the canvases
are the crude work of amateurs and students, and
many more are the potboilers of trained men trying
to catch a guinea. The only impressive canvas on
view is Streeton’s “Anzacs Bathing, Evening on the
Somme,” a peaceful scene with a shell-burst as a re-
minder that war isn’t far away. Violet Teague is
responsible for a couple of sincere portraits, one a
bust of a Digger painted in a bold, convincing
manner. F. G. Reynolds’s “St. Kilda Baths” is weak
in anatomy and animation: the bathers in the picture
are posed. “An Interval” by Mary Allen presents
a ballet-girl well painted as regards her clothes.
There is poor drawing in several other countenances
—notably the red-headed damsel in A. E. Perry’s
“Reading.” Victor Zelman shows discrimination in
his choice of subject and uses a clever brush in
conspicuous places, but he needs to show his quality
on a larger canvas. W. Nieholls Anderson’s “Blue
Depths” is good. Tom Carter’s view of a Jap-looking
lady is mostly noticeable for its heavy color and
ungainly feet. A. E. Walcott’s bits of Belgrave
scenery are promising, but there is nothing in the
work of Montague Brown, Delafield Cook and Ward
Symons, who previously painted with some enthusiasm.
Many of the alleged water-colors in the South.
Gallery are wearisome; and the only successes in the
Central Gallery are John Shirlow’s etchings a;ncl
Christian Yandell’s and Ethel Morris’s imaginative
drawings.
The Fine Art Society opened its new gallery in
Exhibition-street with a large show of pictures by
well-known artists. Norman Lindsay occupies a
recess with ten water-colors of plump goddesses in
various stages of decorative undress. The pictures
are quieter and more delicate in tint than previous)
efforts in this medium, but they are distinguished by
the same old impish fancy. Even wowsers who
theoretically dislike the nude will smile covertly at
the beauty in No. 29 being outrageously disrobed by
a playful monkey. Hans Heysen is represented by
21 subjects, mostly low-toned water-colors, but in-
cluding three unusually striking studies of gums in
charcoal. Nine small Hilders have the characteristic
note of placid loveliness. Four of the tiny dreams
are borrowed; the five unsold now range in price
from 95 to 150 guineas. M. J. McNally seems not
so good as usual, and loses a lot of his charm as a
colorist in a rather sombre “Vista, Malmsbury,” and
the unsatisfactory “Moonrise.” W. B. Mclnnes has
two canvases, one a new aspect of his favorite
lucerne farm and the other a vision of a smiling
farmscape, painted in a broad and confident fashion.
Six water-colored landscapes, whereof “Towards
Evening” is too pretty and commonplace, bear 'the
signature of Harold Herbert. John B. Eldershaw’s
best is “The Deserted Mill.” The stiff and awkward
figures in Thea Proctor’s lithographs imply a French
influence, and her fan designs also look like the re-
sult of a foreign education. W. Hardy Wilson has
found an artistic inspiration in hydrangeas and
poultry, and Lionel Lindsay still uses a brilliant
color-box to glorify the sun and sefloritas of Spain.
#* * *
Buck Jones shows by lariat and gun his
right to the biggest salary in “The Last
Straw" on Hoyt’s Melbourne circuit. Rupert
Julian, an old Australian favorite, also turns
up at Hoyt’s as the convict hero of “The
•Fire Flingers." Fay Tincher, who has fri-
volled in many previous comedies, is Julian’s
partner. Baby gets a boost and the land-
lord a brick in “Children Are Not Wanted,”
featuring a new siren, Edith Day, at the
Majestic. “Poor Relations,” which has no
connection with Compton Mackenzie’s novel,
is the other Majestic runner. Florence Vidor
makes the pace of the yarn in a lively hunt
for a millionaire. At the Britannia Norma
Talmadge is going through a course of uplift
as “The Daughter of Two Worlds.” The
Melba attraction is “The Woman Game,”
Wherein Elaine Hammerstein is the titbit
that a budding Rockefeller angles for.
# * * #
A second look at “F.F.F.” in Adelaide
confirms the impression that there is room
for much filling-in of Australian details in
this Australian comedy. Rex London and
Marie le Varre, for instance, play English
servants just arrived here ; thus they have
open to them all the “pommy” jokes that
ever were. As the play is written there is
not a wattle or a wallaby, a billy or a black-
fellow in it. The working-up process has
already begun, and can be continued indefi-
nitely. More use should be made also of the
skilfpl chorus. Their work in the office
scene and elsewhere is great, and they could
dash in and put a finish on to songs which
at present die away. To make more room
for them, some of the soliloquies near the
end might be cut. Not even the skill of
Workman can conceal the fact that he is
just the rich and deaf old uncle of countless
dead-and-gone farces. However, his business
with Maggie Moore is delightful. Rego has
a speaking part, and is allowed to fall down
only once.
** * *
From an Adelaide critic: —
At Preece’s, gallery the recent attraction has been
a collection of A. H. Fullvvood’s paintings. The main
impression given is versatility. It is difficult to
credit the same hand with the careful “Bell Inn”
and the careless “Old Mill,” the green “Gypsy
Encampment” and the gloomy “While the Billy
Boils,” the pale “Winter’s Evening” and the Hilder-
like “Clay Pits.” Perhaps Fullwood is at his best
in this last manner, in which also is the large and
striking “Dover Cliffs.” He has got together a fine
variety of landscapes, at any rate.
More modest has been the show of a local painter,
Maude Priest, at the Society of Arts. She reveals a
strong influence from the Ashton teaching and
example—the careful seascapes of the father (James)
and the white foam of the son (Will). A visit to
the Blue Mountains has brought out more character-
istic work, and the pictures—all low-priced—have
sold well.
** * *
“Kissing Time” at Adelaide Royal is
remarkable for not having a hero or a male
vocalist. Leonard and Holland are two
comic husbands, who merely talk their songs.
But Maude Fane and Gladys Moncrieff make
up for the deficiency. Business is big, and
the season has to be extended. John McCor-
mack—a more dramatic and assertive John
than of old—has been at • the Exhibition,
where he finished the season abruptly owing
to a little outbreak of yellow fever.
V v "t* v
The usual cry of the showman is “Last
nights!” but “The Man from Toronto” cries
to Sydney, from the Tivoli, “Last weeks!” so
there is still time for the lover of good light
comedy to see the show again.
%
At Sydney,Majesty’s, where “Yes, Uncle!”
rages prosperously in heavy hunting boots,
they render Adam Lindsay Gordon’s famous
line as—“ Life is mostly Frith and bubble.”
❖ * * *
To-night (Thursday) war-lecturer Lowell
Thomas winds up his Sydney season at the
“Yes, Uncle,” at Syd-
ney Her Majesty's.
Geo. Willoughby as
the ex-President of El
Diego.
Palace. The theatre
then folds its wings
and roosts in
silence until “The
Luck of the Navy”
re-opens the doors
on Saturday, Sep-
tember 25. Frank
Harvey will head
the cast of the
naval drama and
Gregan McMahon
is to “produce.”
** * *
“The Rose of
Ivillarney” (gar-
den e r, Gerald
Griffin) blooms at
the Playhouse, and
seems to derive
great comfort from
the fine water-
pumping plant on
view in Sydney’s
•head fire-station
next door.
“One Law for
Both.” the much-
advertised film at
Sydney Town Hall,
ad.ds yet another
to the list of
Poland’s sorrows.
It is unwieldy and
cumbersome, and
has as many char-
acters popping in and out of it as a
Darlinghurst flat. The Polos and the auto-
cratic Russ fight out the first half of the
picture with a sort of fifty-fifty result. Elga,
the daughter of Poland, has exchanged her
honor for the lives of her family and of a band
of her compatriots. Then she seeks sanctu-
ary in the U.S.A.. but has the bad luck
to marry a reformer, and before the honey-
moon is yet on the wane she tells the story
of her life. Whereupon there is a boil-over.
Kissing and telling is always a dangeroys
game. Moral: Don’t tell.
“One Law for Both,” the newrnst melo-
drama at Sydney Opera House, must not
be confused with the picture of the same
name. Perhaps it had a different title once;
but by any other name it would smell as
rank. There is no s'uggestiveness about it—
gross things are proclaimed so plainly that
even the voung girl and boy cannot have
any doubt as to what is meant.
* :J: t-
“Fair and Warmer” comes to Sydney
Strand and Empress with May Allison as
the pretty mixer of cocktails. The grass
widower from the flat above gives a helping
hand, and life is proving one giddy whirl
for May when hubby comes home and spoils
the fun. The bottle-o play is so realistic that
drv States can’t view it without a tear.
“Romance and the Ape” is a film that comes
from Rome, with Jacko and Coco, two enor-
mous and clever anes, in the leading roles.
Snowy Baker and Doug Fairbanks have met
with a strong rival; alongside Jaeko’s stunts
theirs are mere nursery frolics. The thread
of story stringing together his mighty deeds
doesn’t matter at all. The Crystal Palace
turns itself into a zoo for this occasion only.
* * * *
No changes are reported from Sydney Cri-
terion, where “Irene” is proving one of the
winners of the year.
"T.C.J.”: The kids in our street are pic-
ture mad. Wild West stuff was all the go
for a time. One yougster managed a very
fair cowboy .suit by pinning halves of an
old feather boa to his pants and wearing
rafia bottle-protectors on his arms. Profes-
sional jealousy immediately made him a
pariah. “We don’t do cowboy pictures now.
We’re going to have a s’ciety drama.” A
red-haired actress of about six bossed the
show. “I’ll be the mother.” Another kid
volunteered. “I’ll be the man that runs away
with you,” and a third “I’ll be the husband.”
The leading lady outed him at once —“Ah.
garn! Look at yourself! Who’d marry yonf”
Then there was a row; the leading lady
went home roaring, and the Wild West
specialist came into his own again.


a
>
0 | 0
SIMMS
SIMMS
High-tension
Magnetos.
The quality of the materials used in the manufacture
of Simms Magnetos is the best to be obtained, and
is subjected to severe and thorough tests.
This, together with the minute care exercised in
making and fitting, and the innumerable inspections
during the various processes, accounts for the
extreme reliability and durability in service of these
famous Magnetos.
Simms Magnetos are of the true high-tension type.
They give the hottest, most efficient spark possible.
Very compact, simple and light in weight, Simms
Magnetos are readily accessible to allow occasional
inspection and cleaning. They require no special
tools.
Full particulars and prices on application.
WGWATSON &C°L TD
279 Clarence St Sydney
When You are
M-A-double-r-I-E-D —
This is a message to the young bride.
You will soon learn that the High Cost of Living
has taken the truth out of the old saying that “two
can live as cheap as one.”
Eut there are ways to save money without
skimping.
The purchase of —■
a®
M-SSfV,'
*s,*X»V'‘
N> x
6a
FOOO^*
REX
CAMP PIE
is one of those ways.
You save real money every time you
serve it, and you have the satisfaction
of getting a good wholesome, tasty
meal every time.
Rex Camp Pie is all pure meat,
minced fine, deliciously flavored and
cooked to perfection.
It is all ready to serve
—an economical deli-
cacy cheaper than
fresh meat.
Sold by all
grocers
everywhere
FOGGITT, JONES
& CO. LTD.
Packers of Rex Pure
Food Products
Curers of Rex Hams
and Bacon
J 3015
FAIRBANKS-MORSE
: I
V
&
TYPE
Z
111
The Sign of Power
that is recognised by the farmers of Australia as
marking the world’s best Farm Engine at the price
—the Fairbanks Morse Type “Z.’ They know that
for reliable and economical power the,“Z” is a
wonder.
Probably the feature of the “Z” that appeals most
to farmers in Australia to-day is that it has been
specially designed to run
on KEROSENE
and so delivers full power at a low running cost.
Remembering this important fact, check over the other Z features
and see how valuable they are to you as an actual user:—
1. THROTTLING GOVERNOR: Low fuel consumption and
steady running. No erratic cut-out.
2. BUILT-IN OSCILLATING MAGNETO: Hot spark under
all conditions—quick, easy start on the coldest morning.
3. PUMP FUEL FEED: No carburetter flooding.
4. HOPPER-COOLING \
5. FUEL TANK IN BASE I
Save floor space; make the “Z”
easy to move about.
6. SPEED REGULATOR: Allows change of load while
All these in
the ONE Engine—a '
running.
“Z.”
Backed by the Seal of 100% Quality.
Fairbanks Morse have brought their manufacturing methods to such a pitch of perfection that they
can seal their products as having 100% quality. This guarantee is endorsed by over 300,000 users
of “Z” engines in U.S.A > and by many hundreds in Australia.
You take no risk when you buy a “Z.” At any rate it’s worth investigating. Write for our Special
“Z” Booklet.
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD., Sydney.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Brisbane.
J. BARTRAM & SON PTY., LTD., Melbourne.
MALLOCH BROS., Perth.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD., Hobart, Launceston, Devenport and Burnie.
sr
un
os
<s
M
rT
F
QC
HI
IX


Cocoanut Oil Makes
an Elegant Hair Wash
Girls and women who wish to keep their
hair in nice condition should be most cautious
in the soap they wash it with. Most
soaps and ready-mixed shampoos contain
excessive quantities of alkali. This dries
the scalp, makes the hair brittle and is very
injurious. Just ordinary colinated cocoanut
oil (a pure, saponified but quite greaseless
liquid) is far better than the most costly
soap you could possibly use for a shampoo,
for this cannot possibly hurt your hair.
Merely wet your hair with water and rub it
on. A couple of teaspoonsful makes a perfect
flood of rich, thick, creamy lather, and
cleanses both hair and scalp thoroughly. The
lather rinses out easily, and takes with it
every trace of dust, dirt, dandruff or excessive
oiliness. The hair dries quickly and evenly,
and comes out fine and silky, bright, glossy
and fluffy, appearing to be heavier than it is.
And, best of all, this colinated cocoanut oil
leaves the hair as easy to dress again as
though you hadn’t washed it at all. You-'can
get colinated cocoanut oil at most any chemist,
but be sure it’s “colinated,” which is not
expensive—a few ounces lasting a long, long
time.
IMPORTANT: Do not confuse colinated cocoanut
oil with cheaper sticky, emulsified cocoanut oils
or other substitutes. There is only one genuine
colinated oil, as recommended above.
Use Fing'ers to Lift Off Corns!
gf
Not one twinge of Pain! Corns and Callouses Loosen and
Brush Off! Wonderful!
Simply Some Drops of Frozol-Ice and All Pain and Soreness
Leave Corns at Once.
No bunkum! No bother!
Corns—soft ones, hard ones,
corns between the toes, —
loosen completely and lift
off. And not the slightest
twinge of pain or soreness.
Wonderful Invention of
Prominent Chemist.
This wonderful com-
pound is named
Frozol-lee, and is a
substance of ether dis-
covered by a scholarly
chemist.
Step in at any chemist’s for
a tiny bottle of Frozol-lee, cost-
ing- but a mite, ample to remove
every pestiferous corn or callous
from the feet.
Apply some drops right on to the heart
of any tender, pain-throbbing corn or
callous. Immediately all soreness van-
ishes, and soon the whole corn, “lock,
stock and barrel,” loosens and lifts right
out with your finger-tips.
There’s no “acid-eating” effect in
FrOzol-lee, but a perfectly non-irritating,
non-inflaming, shrivelling up and loosen-
ing of the corn or callous.
Only fancy! No pain ! No soreness!
No sting whilst using Frozol-Ice. nor
afterwards. Slake a test of it and satisfy
yourself.
As Soon as Corns Begin to Ache Use
Frozol-Ice.
Girls who have corn freedom save a
place on their dressing-stands for Frozol-
Ice. When corns begin throbbing, give
them some drops. Pain vanishes right off
—corns die!
Midget Bottles of Frozol-Ice at your
Chemist’s.
Favorite
Upset Stomach
Take Magnesia.
If some of the foods you like best do not
agree with you and make your stomach sour
or burn, producing acid indigestion, do not
think you must give up eating these good
things, and do not, either, make the mistake
of swallowing pepsin pills or soda water after
every meal. Instead just malfe a practice of
taking a teaspoonful of pure Salix Magnesia
in half a glass of hot water right after eating.
The hot water will force a needed blood
supply to your stomach, and the Salix Mag-
nesia will instantly neutralise any excess of
stomach acid, and your digestion will be
natural and painless. Salix Magnesia is not
a laxative, and its continued use is entirely
harmless, as it never weakens natural diges-
tion. It can be obtained at any well-stocked
chemist’s shop (in powder or compressed tab-
lets form). Be sure to get Salix Magnesia. Do
not use other forms of magnesia for this
purpose.
Foods
POVERTY
POINT
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Adelaide” : De Garis’s “F.F.F.” is a play
within a play, like Sheridan’s “Critic” or
Shaw’s “Fanny’s First.” But that is kept
a secret from the audience, as in “Seven
Keys to Baldpate.” The start shows merely
two offices. Fitz, a young author, has a play
which he thinks good enough for immediate
production. He rings up Collins, a theatre-
manager, and gets a promise to come round
at once and see a rehearsal. Fitz has
adventures with a girl and a rich uncle for
four acts, but at the finish looks out across
the footlights and remarks, “Well, that’s the
play—what about it?” (or words to that
effect). On which .Collins, from among the
audience, admits that it is first-rate; and
climbs on the stage and himself sings the
song which brings down the, curtain.
“Ox” : Next to suddenly raising his screw
the most horrible surprise you can give an
actor in stock melodrama is to push him off
“The Rose of Killar-
neyat Sydney
Playhouse.
Barney Egan as John
Coughlin, the very
mild villain of the
play.
his beat. Jefferson
Taite, invariably
the bad man at
Newtown (Syd-
ney ) Majestic,
struck a virtuous
patch lately in
“T h e Silence o f
Dean Maitland.”
As Dr. Everet he
is falsely accused
of murder. The
doc. is a real sport,
but the audience
received the accu-
sation with thun-
ders of applause.
Frank Neil, com-
edian of the same
show, appeared a
few weeks later as
Pierre, the saintly
cripple of “The
Two Orphans.”
He speaks first off-
stage, and, recognis-
ing Neil’s voice,
anticipatory giggles
broke out all over
the house. When
Pierre entered, pale
and starved, the
audience fell over
itself laughing, and
resolutely refused
to accept Neil as
anything but a comedian until he had been
the victim of half a dozen assaults.
John Amadio, Melbourne’s favorite flau-
tist, who, not content with the favors and
financial tributes of his native city (he cleared
£BOO out of his last concert), packed his
fife and betook himself to London to shake
the little old place up a bit, has been getting
it severely from the Cockney critics. They
find all sorts of defects in his breathing and
his fingering, and are discovering other im-
portant technical defects. By them John,
who had been accepted as easily Australia’s
best, is relegated to the second class, three
seats back, but is comforted with the pro-
mise that if he is a good boy and practises
assiduously under a master he may be able
to play the flute quite well one of these
days. And all this in spite of the fact that
Melba boomed John assiduously, and gave
every assurance that his living equal with
the pipe was not visible above the horizon.
Two old stagers are in the cast of Wilkie’s
revival of “Macbeth'* in Melbourne. Fanny
Wiseman, who started her stage career by
playing Lady Macbeth at Ballarat at 14-ancl
is now 75, is one of the witches; and
Newton Griffiths at 82 is qualified to play
his Old Man.
Harrison Owen from London:—
Mans' performers known to Australia are in the
spotlight here. Three—Hutin Britton, seen with
her husband, Matheson Lang, in “The Third Floor
Back” and “Pete” ; Frances Wetherall,Whose rasping
voice was heard as the Wazier’s favorite missus in
“Kismet”; and Norman Page, who meowed as the
Cat in “The Blue Bird”—figure in “At the Villa,”
an adaptation by A. E, W. Mason of his detective
yarn, which is booming at the Strand. Kyrle Bellew’s
kinswoman (now Mrs. Arthur Bourchier) is in the
lead. Arthur Whitby, in Australia with H. B.
Irving, is in Barrie’s latest, “Mary Rose,” one
of the characters in which is a Digger; Madge
Titheradge plays lead in “The Garden of Allah” at
Drury Lane; Claude Flemming, just back from an
engagement with Mclntosh, is in “A Southern Maid,”
which looks like remaining for years at Daly’s;
Cyril Maude is having a rest from “Lord Richard
in the Pantry,” but Connie Ediss remains at work ;
Edmund Gwenn is the star in Galsworthy’s “The
Skin Game” (a disappointing show; the old Gals-
worthy “mixture as before,” but more melodramatic
“THE PROGRAMME GIRL," LATEST
H.C.L. PRODUCTION.
Her first appearance in Australia.
than usual) ; Fred Leslie has a good part in “Oh,
Julie 1” ; and H. R. Hignett, who was with the second
Asche co., is to be in the cast of a new Somerset
Maugham comedy, “The Unknown” (said to be a
satire on spiritualism), which is about to go up
at the Aldwych. “Cherry,” a musical show with a
“book” by Edward Knoblock, who wrote “Kismet”
and had a hand in “Milestones,” is the brightest
thing of the kind I have seen for years—a decent
plot, some good dialogue, but scrappy music. Knob-
lock has got away from the musical-comedy
heroine; his is a coster damsel. At the Palladium
this week Lorna and Toots Pounds are sharing the
top of the bill with Marie Lloyd, who the other
day hauled her ex-jockey husband before the Beak
for walloping her. Ivy Shilling is on her way back
to Australia, and Dot Brunton left a week or two
ago. Bert Bailey, when about to give up in despair,
has managed to secure a West End theatre for “On
Our Selection,” and is hard at work trying to teach
English mummers the difference between bushmen
and bushrangers. A bright comedy, “French Leave,”
which is one of the biggest successes of the season,
was written by a Maoriland barrister, Capt. Berkeley,
who spent the years immediately preceding the war
in Fiji. London has discovered a “boy author” in
Noel Coward, not yet 20, who acts in his own play,
“I’ll Leave It to You,” a mechanical affair which
is delighting Cockneyville. Calve, who has been
singing in opera over 25 years, and has done “Car-
men” 1389 times, has “definitely” decided to retire
at the end of her present concert tour. At Covent
Garden the massive Clara Butt has just made one of
the most nervous first appearances in opera on record,
as Gluck’s Orphee. Jeanne Brola, who was with the
Quinlan co., has scored a hit in Puccini’s “II
Tabarro.” I met Frank Talbot the other day, just
back from piloting Lauder through S’Afriea. The
tour was a huge success, and Lauder naturally pre-
sented Frank with a gold cigarette-case—l don’t
think ! Talbot has hopes of putting “The Sentimental
Bloke” on the screen here, but empty picture
“palaces” are hard to find (several big music-halls
have recently been taken over for movies), and fabu-
lous rents are demanded.
“Nell” : Why all this talk concerning Wil-
fred Lucas, who proved a dud here as a
picture producer? Say that it was a case
of Lucas a non lucendo, and let it go at that.
“Orb”: Nowanights the vaudeville songs
are all of the Mississippi and the coons that
drive us dippy. We don’t get the tender,
plaintive gems of long ago. An affecting
ballad that used to grip one’s heartstrings
was that of a mother pleading with her way-
ward daughter, and urging her to go straight.
But—-
The girl shook her orf
With a toss of the ’ead,
An’ entered the ’ouse of ill-fyme.
There was a pathetic song of a waitress, I
remember, who was “insulted” by a profiteer,
and who gently chid him:
Me mother was a lydy, Sir,
Like yours, you will allow.
And that melting appeal to a would-be
suicide:
Don’t jump into the viver, Miss,
Don’t leap into the tide.
It would offend your famerly
If you commit sewercide.
If you drown’d in that river.
Like a kitting or a pup,
They’ll take you to the mor-gu-ee
And there they’ll cut you hup.
Why has no composer yet given “Bellerive’s”
jewels a musical setting?
The Mclntosh management in Adelaide
was fairly safe in offering £5O to any patron
who could guess what “F.F.F.,” the title of
the new De Garis-Stoneliam musical comedy,
stands for. It might be anything. The play
is about Fitzwilliam Ferguson’s fortune, but
that was too obvious. The name of Fitz’s girl
is Flo, the widow is fat, fair and forty, and
one of the best songs has the refrain “Fitz
feels fine.” Also there was always the chance
that the canny Mildura author might be work-
ing an irrelevant ad. for Fresh Fruit and Fly-
ing. A promise that the three words would be
mentioned in the final song is kept literally;
but it is just a jingle in which every possible
F. word is reviewed. At the end of the first
week the answer was announced to be “Fitz-
william Ferguson. Fop.” Nobody had
guessed the nearly obsolete last word, so,
except for a few consolation prizes, the
money went to a soldiers’ fund.
The latest play to have music fitted to it
is Capt. Marshall’s “His Excellency the
Governor,” for years a favorite with ama-
teurs. Unlike many others with meaningless
titles, this one calls itself “The Love Flower,”
after the demoralising blossom which is the
main idea of the story.
“Old Pot”: James B. Nott Osborne, hus-
band of Maud Jeffries, did not acquire that
statuesque, lady for his wife (B. 2/9/’2O)
until he had been on the stage for some con-
siderable time. He first appeared, not as
Mr. Osborne, but as Mr. Curran Dooley
(Currandooley is the family squattage).
After “walking on” for a while he emerged
into the limelight in Sydney when Julius
Superbus got typhoid fever. Harry Plimmer
became the lead in the Theatre Royal season,
which had barely paid for the gas until
“Monsieur Beaucaire” was staged. Then the
firm conceived the grand idea of putting up
the husband of Maud Jeffries as the French-
man because of his knowledge of French. As
an experiment it certainly filled the house
with the curious, and it wasn’t a bad per-
formance. . In fact, there were parts of the
study which were excellently done; and had
J. B. Nott Osborne been caught younger
there is little doubt that he would have been
a better actor than Arthur Dacre,' Charles
Charrington or Clarence Brune, the husbands
of other distinguished stage-women.
Fred W. Dennett, the pianist of a jolly
company, drops a few points:—
Since my return from India I have had many
inquiries as to the welfare and whereabouts of the
members of the old “Look Who’s Here” co. By last
mail I received a very interesting letter from Wylie
Watson, written from London on July 30, yto say
that Waller opens his new show at the Palace
Theatre, Chelsea, this week. The co. will include
Watson and Ada Smart, and also Marion Armitage
and Bob Hine, so that with the exception of myself
all the old “Butterfly” co. of some eight years ago
are together once more. Gregory Ivanoff, Howard
Hall and Edgar Hulland are still in India, where
they are doing the rounds of the hills. Jack Waller
tells me that after their English tour he hopes to
be able to bring the new co. to Australia.
“Red”: John Lawson (“Only a Jew”), of
potted plays and broken crockery fame, has
taken a lease of King’s Theatre, Fremantle.
The term is three years. Lawson intends
running vaudeville in conjunction with his
30-minute thrillers. King’s has broken the
heart and pocket of many a showman ; but
Lawson is a good one.
“T.D.M.” : “lolanthe” was first staged in
Sydney in 1885. having been preceded by an
■opera-bouffe called "La Petite Mademoiselle.”
founded on the story of Robert Macaire.
Although Robert Brough worked hard and
got all the comedy possible out of the part
of the French thief, it was a dismal failure.
When the fairy opera was set, Mrs. Brough,
then playing as Florence Trevellyan, was
supporting Frank Thornton at the Gaiety,
and she was transferred to the Royal for
the Fairy Queen. Walter Woodfield and
Frank Boyle, the latter a sweet tenor, were
Earls Tolloller and Mountararat. Brough was
the Lord Chancellor, Bertie Brennir and
Nellie Stewart Strephon and Phyllis. Wil-
liam Webbe Private Willis, and Emma
Chambers lolanthe. The inclusion of Emma
Chambers gives some indication of the ver-
satility of Um artists of those days, for she
was a clever chambermaid whose business
was on the dramatic side. Emma Temple,
one of the best of our present-day com-
ediennes, and Aggie Kelton, who afterwards
married Harrison, the conductor, were 'two
of the trio of fairies. I saw' the London
production at the Savoy in 1883, with
George Grossmith as the Chancellor and
Leonora Braham as Phyllis, and I am satis-
fied that the Australian show was just as
good. But it has not been so admirably
done since.
“Old P.”: The alleged subtlety of Har-
court Beatty’s interpretation of John Shand.
“Yes, Uncle," at Syd-
ney Her Majesty's.
Cyril Ritchard as
Lucien Gapour, an
amorous Zouave.
a s illustrated b y
the gradation o f
accent as he moves
upwards, was of
the stage stagey.
In real life I, a
Scot who knows the
difficulty of shed-
ding the accent,
and who hardly suc-
ceeded after 20
years’ unremitting
toil and study, can
well testify. Few
Scots, .even the
University type
(as, pardon my
blushes, myself and
my fellow student
Jock Garland,
Aberdeen M.A.,
1882, and Ediu-
burgh, LL.B.),
entirely lose it.
Jock has the Banff-
shire accent
strongly pro-
nounced to-day,
and he may be
taken as the equi-
valent o f Shand,
for he came from
the lap of the
farming community
into an Australian
Cabinet. In Inver-
ne s s the purest
English is spoken,
but any Scot can
tell that the
speakers are Cale-
donians. The Scot-
tish spoken on the stage is usually the Eng-
lish idiom with a supposedly Scottish accent.
It is not the Scottish idiom spoken by a Scot.
The difference was heard in “A Scrape of
the Pen.”
Ida Gresham, who plays the flattened-out
leading lady in “The Boss Cockie,” was
Chorus in George Rignold’s famous produc-
tion of “Henry V.” And G.R. was mighty
careful that that part was only handled by
a lady well able to enunciate blank verse.
“S.”: When Nance O’Neil played Lady
Macbeth at Melbourne Majesty’s she made
so impressive a picture in the sleep-walking
scene that it was often disturbed by injudi-
cious applause. One night, when clapping
broke out as big Nance came on in her white
nightie, carefully holding the flickering dip.
a galleryite cried disgustedly to the pur-
veyors of misplaced appreciation: “Ah-h-h,
shut up, can’t yeh ? The lady’s fergot to put
out the cat.” Then everybody appreciated
the fact that Lady Macbeth did look exactly
like a matron arisen to eject the domestic
tabby, and laughter completely ruined the
O’Neil’s best effort.
“Hamfat” : Judge Rolin, who as chairman
of the N.S.W. Necessary Commodities Com-
mission harrowed the soul of John Storey by
increasing the price of butter, once helped to
shock the Sydney Uni. authorities. It was .
a particularly rowdy commem. and the riot
reached its height at the Palace Theatre.
There the rampageous students flung festpons
of paper across the theatre, pelted actors,
audience and one another with fruit-skins,
and generally played Ancient llenry; but the
chief scandal of the night was the misbe-
havior of a red-wiggod “lady” in the stalls.
She was Tom Rolin.
The Anglican Church in S. Aus. has for-
mally blessed the “movies” ; at any rate, it
has recognised them as “a living factor in
the lives of the people,” and therefore to
be adopted for instructional purposes. The
parsonic idea is to capture the film for u
“church pictorial movement,” and make it
“the handmaid of church work.” The kid
may be fond of jam and yet shy off when he
finds there is apt to be a powder in it.
“G.P.” : A populace gone mad on jazzing
can’t be expected to take interest in the
classic creations of Anna Pavlova (B.
19/8/’2O) danced to the music of Chopin,
Liszt, Rimsky-Ivorsakoff and Dvorak, and she
herself has drawn attention to the degenera-
tion of ballroom-dancing into an undressed
orgy. Even in 3913. when she had to be
content to follow Harry Lauder on the
Palace (London) bill, there was a lack of
appreciation, and one could always get a
good seat. Taste has changed still further
for the worse since then, and the love of the
public for the grotesque, the unpleasant, and
the undressed in the movies is more likely
to be the real cause of Anna’s failure.
HELL HATH NO FURY LIKE AN ACTOR
SCORNED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Point’s trousers, that at night beneath his mattress
Whilst in the arms of Morpheus he creased.
Were scolloped ar, the ends by constant snipping;
His heels to be of use as heels had ceased.
Along the street with measured tread he paces,
And, Spartan-like, heeds not the chilly blast;
His overcoat had furnished food since Friday,
But e’en that source had petered out at last.
My God! Immersed in thought Point almost passed
him — t
A brother-pro., resplendently arrayed,
In raiment glad, and with that air of hauteur
Which only actors wear who have been paid.
Alas! the answers to his gladsome greetings
In tones of “Touch me not” fell on his ear.
The radiant one, with “Hope you’re well, old
chappie,”
Departs; and with him go bright dreams of beer!
Then in his righteous wrath Point rose and smote
him,
And made him as the dust beneath his feet.
“There’s one thing I thank God I haven’t come t~—•
I do not wear my props, when in the street!”
VICTOMA.
ONE-NIGHT STAND.


Go to Murdock’s for Your Sporting Materials
;i> $
■kT<
rjcr'^s
*<>v?
*
!&&
S o
iim
*> Q
‘•ft 5 '
»»
j—“-a
u
«S>
m
=’t>\
Z^3
re
‘iii'"
A
o't
J
1
m
V /
&
AK-
»*'3
yihShi
fm
in
r\
ui
>-.- V
ft
fp
v
«7
x-
r
*
K
X
Cs
K
W
y
y
\
*3
55
y
®s
L*u
ss
J 0*
Kf
/•
> ,A -' f.>
rt, ‘•*v 1
J
>p
\vy
re
h, i^iy
i uflirn
i v. ■: J
Tennis, Cricket, Fishing Tackle, Golf or Shooting, whatever it be you will get
it better at
MURDOCH’S.
Come and see for yourself; you will be convinced that our stocks, which are all
new and fresh, are
MORE MODERATELY PRICED
than any in the State.
We have the most complete range of Sporting Goods in the Commonwealth for
every game.
CRICKET MATERIALS.
CRICKET BATS.
DUKE’S “Reliance” 30/-
SHAW & SHREWSBURY “Practice” 32/6
SHAW & SHREWSBURY “Standard Driver” 35/-
SHAW & SHREWSBURY “Empire” 37/6
SHAW & SHREWSBURY “Australian” 42/-
COBBET’S “Jubilee Driver” 40/-
COBBET’S “Test” 52/6
DARK’S Cork and Plain Handle 50/-
SPALDING’S “Record Driver” 53/6
SPALDING’S “Grand Prix” 52/6
LILLYWHITE FROUD “Record Driver” j. 45/-
SUMMER BROWN’S Force Bats, Autographed by J. B.
Hobbs, the Great English Professional —
Force X ..»
Force XX . .
Force XXX
Force XXXX
STUART & SURRIDGE’S “Rapid Driver” 45/-
STUART & SURRIDGE’S “Specially Selected.. 52/6
STUART AND SURRIDGES “Extra Special”.. 00/-
All Bats are specially selected by us and made of
Seasoned Willow.
CRICKET BALLS.
h
WUden’K “Special Crown" 25/-
Duke’s No. 4 17/fi
Duke's I'.K.D, No. A * 20/-
LEG GUARDS.
Batsman’s Leg Guards —White Canvas, 10/6,
11/6, Basil, 11/6. Grain Leather, 12/6.
Gold Cape, 17/6.
Wicketkeeper’s Lieg Guards— White Canvas,
17/6, 18/6. Gold Cape, 21/- per pair.
Wicketkeeper’s Gauntlets — Plain, 13/6,
16/6. Rubber Palms, 22/-, 24/9.
STUMPS
Plain, 9/6. Plain, with Bails, 13/6 set.
Brass Tops, Steel Shod, 25/- set. Bails, 1/6 set.
Club Secretaries are requested to send us their names and addresses,
when a Cricket Scoring Book will he forwarded free of charge.
FISHING TACKLE.
Now is the Time to Prepare for the Fishing Season.
We have everything for the Fisherman. See our
Complete Stocks before going elsewhere. Rods, Reels,
Hooks, Lines, Gut are all here in a large Selection.
Quality and Prices —Right.
Special Shipment of Japanese Gut lanes
just arrived. White or Green, 40-yard length—
1/3, 1/6, 1/10, 2/9, 3/-, 3/6, 3/9.
TENNIS REQUISITES.
RACQUETS.
English-made, and strung with best English Gut.
“Tournament”
“Forward” ...
Jeffries’ “King”
“High Tension”
“Unity”
“Eclipse” 15/6
“Invicta” 37/6
“Crown” ... 62/6
“Cambridge” ... 60/-
F. H. Ayres’S.N.D. 95/.
25/-
20/-
45/-
75/-
72/6
Spalding’s “Van-
tage” 38/6
“Service Special”.. 52/6
“Tournament” .. 45/-
“Globe” 47/6
F. A. Davis’s
“Oval” 53/-
Model D.H. ..... 53/6
TENNIS BALLS.
“.All England” Practice Balls, 2/- each; 23/- doz.
“Dunlop’s,” 2/9 each. Crown Imperial, 2/9
each; 31/- doz.
TENNIS NETS.
Steam-tarred Flexible Wire Top Line . . 30/-, 37/-
Special Steam-tarred Wire Rope Top Line.... 48/-
GOLF CLUBS, etc.
In large selections bv Best British Makers. Come in and see them.
Winton’s Brassies 19/ft each. Winton’e Drivers 18/9 each.
Winton’s Baffles 19/0 each. tt’inton's Irons 10/9 each
Send your Mail Orders to DKSIC it.
GUNS AND AMMUNITION.
RIFLES.
Remington Model No. 6 Single Shot. —Our
improved No. 6 Rifle is especially designed to meet the
demand for a lightweight and reliable “takedown’ rifle
at a moderate price. Adapted to the following cart-
ridges: 22 short, 22 long, 22 long rifle, or 32 short
R.F., and 32 long R.F. Price 45/-
Remington Repeating Rifle, Model 12A. —
This Model is a general favorite; being exceptionally
light and of perfect balance, it is very handy for target
practice, or to carry in search of small game. Easily
adjustable step rear sight, with fingerpiece. White
metal bead sporting front sight. Price.... £6/10/-
Remington Browning Automatic, Model
24A. — I'or 22-calibre short cartridges; will take 11
cartridges in magazine. Length of barrel, 20in.; weight,
4 Alb. Price £6
AMMUNITION
We have Splendid Supplies of Ammunition to suit any
Gun or Rifle.
WRITE FOR COMPLETE PRICE LIST.
BOWLS.
Thomas Taylor’s Lawn Bowls
tested by Official Testers to N.S.W.
i Bowling Association.
Taylor Ralp. Lawn Bowls,
£7 set.
A.8.C., Bias si, 5 1-16,
£6/15/- set.
Post Free to Your Door,
except Rifles —sent to
nearest Railway Station.
Autoloading 22-calibre Rifle, Model 16A.—
16-shot Autoloader, chambered only for the 22 Remington
Autoloading Cartridge. Price £9/7/6
Repeating 12-bore Shotgun. —Specifications:
Six-shot repeater. Price £l2/10/-
Bayard No. 1 D.8.8.L. Shotguns. — l2-Bore,
left barrel choke, low hammers, snap fore-end. walnut
stock, cross-bolt, top lever. Price .. ... £l2/10/-
MURDOCHS
'"“IN PARK ST. LTD. SYDNEY
The Worlds LdrcpstMeris &>BoijsWedr Store


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
sole Agents : RESCHS. LlfllTED, RecMern. Sydney.
LEWIS&
WHHTY
MAKERS
mm
Qi
mmm
mmmmm
ZZMaj&wm
] C-A-O C
13 cap
C/VC-
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND j[ C'A'C* ~~ BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA—CoIIins House, Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, S'dney - - - Phone City 2677
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street. Brisbane Phone 2382
fc^c"
C A-C-
j CA P
1
I c^' c -1
The Melbourne-owned Eudorus gelding
Eemraon has improved out of sight since the Don-
caster. When he came to Sydney after that event he
looked low in condition, and bore the reputation
of being a shirker. On Saturday at Randwick he
came to light as a record breaker in Tatt.’s Tram-
way Handicap, a seven-furlong event popularly sup-
posed to have an important bearing on the Epsom.
Amongst the 19 runners were 10 of the speediest
sprinters in the State. The big Welkin horse Green-
stead, being about as well as he ever had been, was
reckoned to have a mortgage on the stake and
started solidly backed at threes. Moving quickly off
Warspite and Elfacre ran in front all 1 the way to
just below the distance, with Remmon a couple of
lengths astern and Greenstead never worse than
fourth. The two leaders were in trouble after
the sixth furlong, and Remmon, coming on as thev
blew up, left Greenstead standing and hit tin-
line four lengths to the good—in “24j.” He had
clipped 3sec. off the Australasian record for the
distance and a full second off the best time pre-
viously registered at Randwick. The only other nag
to show up favorably was Gambler’s Gold.
The Chelmsford Stakes (w.f.a. with penalties and
allowances) was a gift for Chrysolaus. Mainly be-
cause the high-strung grey was still a bit above
himself, while Sydney Damsel was clearly at her
best and had a pull of 121 b. in the weights, there
was plenty of money for the lady. Nor were the
chances of some of the three-year-olds, to whom the
grey was conceding 24 stone, disregarded, Erasmus be-
ing a case in point. The colt and the mare ran second
and third, but the grey did better, for though they
were ridden right out he wasn’t. Pike was content
to run along six horses back to the six-furlong pole.
There he sharpened up the pace and after reaching
the straight won anyhow. The nine furlongs were
run in “51j”—another Australasian record for .the
distance. When Gloaming won in “52” he carried
Cst. 101 b. Chrysolaus had 3st. lib. more on top.
White Phast (7st. 81b.) won the Spring Handicap
(li mile) very comfortably, and after being in the
first flight all the way w.as staying out rather better
than Emblematic (7st. 71b.) and quite as well as
Booster (Bst. 21b.), who had come from a long wav
back round the turn. They take off 61b., 31b. and
71b. respectively for the longer journey, and the
probabilities are that of the three the imported
Emblematic (a brother to Abbot’s Trace) will benefit
most by the race ; though whether he will benefit by
having to travel an additional three furlongs is quite
another matter. Some of the also-ran brigade are
likely to be improved horses by the beginning of
next month. For example Millieme, Kennaquhair,
Ecarte and Pershore. The last-named has grown
into a fine-looking nag, and had he not been such a
deceiver in the past would seem capable of almost
anything.
A couple of years ago a half-brother, by Varco,
to the lamented Dick Meagher was bought in Sidney
by H. D. Greenwood, owner of Gloaming, and sent to
Maoriland to mature; and when Richard Mason
brought Gloaming across a few weeks ago, the
allegedly untried colt came too. The explanation
given was that he might be good enough to pick up
a minor handicap. He was. He lifted the Novice
Handicap on Saturday, incidentally running the mile
in “39.” Among the starters was Syce Knight, a
Bananaland-owned colt trained by Booth at Rosehill,
and reckoned by his connections to be virtually
unbeatable in the race. The stranger, Vespucci by
name, licked him fair and square, though it was
nothing in the lvqight’s favor to have 71b. the worst
of the weights On the previous day Vespucci had
been backed to win the A.J.C. Derby.
Looking at the Epsom after Saturday’s
running there is no getting away from the claims
of Remmoit. He is an exceptionally smart beginner,
and in the Tramway Handicap carried 51b. over his
handicap for the big mile. That he can run out
eight furlongs is- scarcely to be doubted after his
amazingly swift and -resolute gallop on Saturday.
Chrysolaus may be able to give him 271 b. and beat
him, but, great horse though the grey is, the job will
be a tough one. Elfacre, still on the burly side,
showed a lot of pace while his wind lasted in the
Tramway, and is almost sure to be well in the
fighting-line for the Epsom. Bigaroon’s tempera-
ment in action arouses distrust, despite his great
work at exercise.
Trouble struck some good horses at Rand-
wick last week. Gloaming bled after a working
gallop and may perhaps never race again, Rich-
mond Main’s foot has gone once more, and Booster
was dead-lame after Tatt.’s Spring Handicap.
There were moderate fields and an
immoderate crowd at Albion Park (Q.) on Saturday,
and for the second week running a dead heat halved
punters’ winnings. The tragedy occurred this time
in the Third Division Handicap, the outsider llolva
just lasting long enough to divide with Mirigen.
In the Plate Soldier's March and Banzhcad, the
previous week’s dead-heaters, were only separated
by a head. Bunting was about again, and was
given a run in the First Division Handicap. His
price—2o to -1 in a field of five —accurately fore-
casted his performance.
■* * * - *
The Port Adelaide Guineas (Of.), like
the Parkside Stakes, demonstrated that Hesso, the
S. Aus. crack three-year-old, chucks it after six
furlongs. At the same meeting Clever Jim won the
Spring Handicap, but was not fancied with Bst. 101 b.
in the heavy going. The Ibex horse Chamois, who
ran third, is developing into a stayer. In the Flying
the three placed horses were on the 7st. 21b. mark
and the winner, Arnette, paid £lOB 9s. for £l.
Bandurria, is among the Victorian nags
that have Spring engagements in Sydney, and the
mare’s running will perhaps throw light on the
quality of. Eurythmic’s recent performance at Caul-
field. In the Memsie Slakes, which the Westralian
won so easily, Bandurria (Bst. 01b.) finished second,
three lengths behind the winner (9st. 71b.). Her
weight for the Epsom is only 7st. 211).
The V.R.O. intends to run the Maribyr-
nong Trial Stakes —the first two-year-old | race of the
season—in divisions, one for colts and one for fillies.
Anyone with a taste for fancy betting might reason-
ably offer 11 to 10, on the winning filly making
better time than the winning colt. The idea of
sexual classification for youngsters could very well
be extended to at least one event later in the
season, when colts are better able to concede sex
allowance to their more precocious sisters. Why
not a two-year-old Oaks in the autumn, and another
race for young gentlemen only?
“0.K.”: In considering the Memsie Stakes
performance of Eurythmic it is as well to forget
that the winner started at an outside price because
he was supposed to be not ready. ' Evidently he was
as fit to win a nine-furlongs race as ever he will
be, and the stable opinion to the contrary was due
to personal inexperience of the horse’s condition when
he won his best races in Westralia. If the assump-
tion is correct his masterful performance doesn’t
necessarily make the Westralian champion such a
cert for the Caulfield Cup as some people suppose.
The doubt whether he can stay 12 furlongs or more
ROBERTSON,
South Mel-
bourne's orach
goal-kicker.
at the pace they make in the Cups was not settled
by his way of making up his ground and shooting
away from the field in a nine-furlongs race. If
there was a - fault in the performance it was that
it was a little too suggestive of a temper that
varies. The book, however, shows him to have run
well over all distances, and. if he repeats his smash-
ing victory over Eusebius, Red Dome, etc., at Fl<-m-
-ington shortly, his starting price for the Caulfield
Cup will be ridiculouslv short —all going well with
the stylish animal in the meantime.
The sporting public is in for another hit
at the turnstiles: the N.S.W.C.A. is lifting t#ie
charges about 50 per cent. The old bob is no
good now at the gate, and an extra sixpence (plus
tax) will be the smallest charge to see the Eng-
lish XI in on the Sydney Cricket Ground.
* * # #
Another attempt is being made in Vic. to
run a paper devoted to amateur sport. There is a
bit of a boom in running, rowing and other such-
like diversions, as well as in football and cricket,
so the Amateur Sportsman may find a niche, especi-
ally if the daily papers combine to keep their sport-
ing stuff (apart from horse-racing, which is sacro-
sanct) within such narrow limits.
Norths notched their seventh successive
win on Saturday when they downed Souths in the
semi-final of tne Sydney City Cup Competition.
Scores, 34 points (6 tries 8 goals) to 15 points
(1 try 6 goals). The Red and Green 13 dropped
their usual five three-quarters and reverted to the
four formation, to the advantage of the forward
line. Contrary to expectations, Lawrence, Souths’
"rake,” persistently triumphed over George Green,
his vis-a-vis in the scrums, and it speaks volumes
for the Northern backs' nippiness and resource that
they piled up such a big total in the circumstances.
Harold lioruer was the brignt star of the match.
His swerving, dodging, tackling and kicking were
masterly". He was to blame for 17 of Norths’ total
of 34 points. The way in which .Duncan Thompson,
Norths’ versatile half, opened up the'game from any
old position was an object-lesson. Blinkhorn, Rule
and Peters, in the Red three-quarter line, played
faultlessly, and were well served by. Dallas Hodgins.
Laplin at full back was superior on the day to
Harvard Ilallet, Souths’ custodian. Tiny Ives,
Horsey and Fault shone for the Northerners, and
some of their dribbling rushes were most artistic.
Norths’ victory was mainly attributable to Chris
McKivatt s coaching. Souths' backs would hang on.
The principal offender, strange to Say, was the won-
derful little Jplaycr “Tiger ’ Gillespie, He was
repeatedly grassed in possession *>f the leather. The
best man on the losing side was “Spot’’ Border.
He was responsible for a wonderful run, which
sent Blair over the chalk-line with the Rabbitos’
only try. In the other game Balmain walloped
Wests b.v 11 points to two. The premiers were
attacked by the slows and wandered aimlessly about
the field. The final between Norths and Wests on
Saturday should provide some fine Rugger, with the
odds favoring McKjvatt’s menagerie.
For the first Vic. League semi-final on
Saturday the ground was a swamp, except where it
was a lake, and mud accumulated on the players
faster than the driving showers washed it off. ’Wood
and ’ltoy were the contestants, and what skill ancL
speed were shown belonged mostly to the Magpies.
Admittedly ’Roy would have put’ up a better tight
on a dry day. But the other lot had the nous to
adapt themselves to the moisture, and so they scored
4 goals 17 behinds to ’Roy’s 3 goals 5 behinds.
Which ends ’Roy's hopes of the premiership this
season. Gate, £1950.
Over on the East Melbourne ground weather and
soil were equally obscene, but the effect on the
players was different. Brunswick and Port, in the
struggle over the first Ass. semi-finals, lost their tem-
pers. One incident was characteristic. In a scrim-
mage McDonald, of Port, w r as stood on his head in
the slush, whereupon three Port players chased
Cahill, of ’Wick, and passed him a few to go on
with. It may be noted, in passing, that Cahill had
nothing to do with the upending of McDonald. After
four spells of stoush and blasphemy, the argument
ceased with Brunswick owning 45 points to Port’s
21. Port always was a rotten loser.
» « « *
The consistent H. Hayden (Botany Har-
riers) lost the other 16 in the Manly Marathon
(about 121 miles) on Saturday. He stayed with his
field for about two miles and then departed, winning
with 3niin. 26 4-ssec. to spare. The trip took llir.
Bmin. 46 l-ssec. —4min. 51 l-ssec. slower than Hay-
den’s winning effort last year.
This year’s M.L. five-mile cross-country
championship was decided over a stiff course at
Christchurch. Six water-jumps, 32 fences, steep
hills and rough ground made the venture worth the
title; and up some of the inclines all 20 starters
were so “blown” that they walked it. The race
was a tussle between the rival captains W. Scratch-
ard (Wellington) and C. Frye (Otago), and the
latter won after a desperate finish by six inches in
34min. lOsec. D. Todd and R. J. Bell (both
Wellington) struggled in ahead of the rest. Frye
(Coversham Harriers) is Maoriland’s best distance
runner nowadays, and recently landed the Otago
five miles’ cross-country championship in 30min.
14 3-ssee. For the teams’ championship Wellington
(14 points) were on top—the first victory for the
Windy City in seven atterripts since 1903 —with
Otago (35 points) next.
* * * *
“15-30”: Tilden’s defeat of Johnston for
the U.S. Singles Championship makes him the world's
tennis star; but it won’t lessen the interest in the
other, who pushed his countryman harder than any-
body else whom Tilden has encountered this year,
Kingrcote and Patterson not excepted. On the
cabled figures Tilden and Johnston with two sets
each were level in the aggregate of games when
starting the fifth set, so that Tilden’s win by a
margin of three games leaves Johnston far from dis-
graced. In fact, it is about the closest go that
championship tennis has known; so that when the
pair come to tackle Australia for the Davis Cup in
December, Johnston’s glory won’t be dimmed by the
presence of the champion. Tilden has acquired the
greater limelight here because he beat Patterson, but
he is very little ahead of his team-mate, who beat
him soundly in 1919.
Heats of the £350 sculling handicap on
the Brisbane (Q.) on Saturday left all the first -
flighters except Barry in the final. Alf Felton won
the first from McDevittMn 20min. 50sec. ; long-
markers. H. Christensen and Charlie Matterson quali-
fied in the second in 18min. 44sec. ; and Dick Arnst
and Ripley were in the lead in the third in 17min.
261 sec. Arn’st's work in the rough water was the
best of the afternoon.
An American mermaid was credited last
week with breaking a world’s record at the Olympic
traversing 300 metres in 4min. 34sec.
Fanny Durack covered the distance in 4min. 32 2-ssec.
in the Domain (Sydney) Baths in 1918 under record
conditions. The swim was passed by the Ladies’
Association and sent on for endorsement to the
N.S.W.A.S.A. ; but somehow it never got into the
“books.”
Two men stand out so much at present
in S. Aus. golf that the recent championship of the
State took a curious turn. In the qualifying com-
petition Murdoch, formerly of N.S.W., went round
in 76 and a beautiful 72 ; total 148. Tom Cheadlc,
who has been in the front rank from his school
days, took 157. The rest of the eight who qualified
to take part in the final were from 14 to 40 strokes
behind the leader. When the eight were drawn
against each other, it became evident that Murdoch
and Cheadle would meet in the semi-final, thus
leaving the final without much interest. As it
happened, they were all-square at the 36th -hole,
after a tremendous fight. Legally they should have
gone straight on till Somebody won a hole and the
match; but at this point Linklater, the other final-
ist, good-naturedly scratched, and the committee
declared that day’s play “no match,” leaving the
two men to fight it over again in the final. This
time Murdoch had a steady advantage, and won 4
up and 3 to play. The ladies’ championship was
won by Mrs. Fred Bruce from Miss Jessop, on the
last green.
Teddy Roberts, wbo topped tbe score-
sheet with the All Blacks in Australia recently, is
among the few who have reached three figures for
M.L. in rep. football. In Australia, Roberts scored
46 points (4 tries and 17 goals) and it lifted his
figures to 104. Other M.L. players with three figures
are Billy Wallace (367), Jimmy Hunter (141),
T. W. Lynch (107), and R. W. Roberts (101).
The Norwood Club
is this year in the four
which fight out the finals of
Adelaide football. It is
not much to boast of, but
is a change from the
bottom position lately held
by the old club, which
till 1907 was always at
the top or close up. The
last match of the regular
season was full of interest.
West Adelaide, absolutely
at the bottom, had died
gloriously, beating the two
at the top. Sturt, unbeat-
able at the beginning of
the season but unable to
win lately, demolished the
chance of West Adelaide,
and would have been in
the finals if Norwood had,
as expected, lost to West
Torrens. The unexpected,
however, as usual, hap-
pened, and the top four
are North Adelaide, Port,
West Torrens and Norwood.
Kinnear, of Norths, broke
a leg at Ballarat while on
his way back from Sydney,
and the finals are fairly
open.
G. TRESCOWTHICK,
the S. Australian
inter-State footballer.
The Australian lady-riders 'high-jump
record of Oft. llin (put up by Miss Woods, at
Bathurst, in 1918) had added to it by Miss
Emily Roach on Musician, at Albury last week.
She is a Narrandera (N.S.W.) product; whose previ-
ous best was 6ft. lOin. on Wallaroo at Bendigo in
1918.
* * * *
Patterson’s tennis is reviewed by London
Land and Water from a new standpoint, that of
his lower half. Neville Lytton, expert critic of
games, dwells on “the absolute need of perfect foot-
work,’’ remarking that Shimidzu, of Japan, and
Miss Lenglen, of France, are “nearly all legs,” and
Tilden extraordinarily active for a man of his size;
whereas Patterson “is now very heavily topped, and
to carry such a torso through five sets he would
need the legs of Tommy Burns.”
Red Dome, the Newmarket winner, seems
to have been rather kindly treated in the Cups (the
mare isn’t in the Epsom or Metrop.) on the assump-
tion that she can’t go more than 10 furlongs at
the furthest. Her breeding, by Welkin from Red
Streak, is against her ; yet those who ought to know
count her as one of the few' Welkins that have
developed stamina with age. Red Dome’s most pro-
mising performance, prior to the Newmarket win,
was a second to Lucknow over nine furlongs at Caul-
field a year ago.
The King of Spain, who races as Duke of
Toledo, is the most successful royal sportsman ever
heard of. He owns 24 horses, bought in England
and France, has raced half of them this season,
and won 30 races, including all the biggest things
in Spain, except the Grand Prix of Madrid, in
w hich he came second. His • lot are equally good
over jumps.
* * * *
A motorist lately fined in Adelaide Police
Court for not stopping at a crossing when a police-
man held up his hand has had a bit of luck. The
suggestion made on appeal to the Supreme Court was
that the information laid “did not disclose an
offence.” The City Solicitor said that the very words
of the bylaw had been used; but the Court said
the intention was clear that the holding up a hand
must be meant as an order to stop, and that had
not been proved. “If the police-officer held up his
hand to salute a superior officer, that did not compel
all persons driving vehicles in Adelaide to stop at
once.” Conviction quashed; though apparently all
it will be necessary for the prosecutor to do in
future cases will be to ask the constable “Did you
mean your gesture as a sign to the defendant to
stop ?”
N.S.W, Cricket Association will again use
the permit system in Sydney premiership cricket
this season. The plan, on trial in recent years,
has been found helpful to many who cannot get a
place in their own district club. But it treads on
the residential qualification, the basis on which
clubs are formed, and this year it was bitterly
fought. However, while clubdom sticks to the prac-
tice of keeping old players in the A team instead of
giving the youngsters a chance, there will be need
for the permit system.
THE JOCK’S SAD SOULOQUY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The jockey-boy was angel-faced.
He had a blue, appealing eye.
Adown his checks the tears had traced
Clean lines of sorrow. Standing by
He ruminated on the race,
And reconsidered how ’twas run —
He murmured to himself: “The pace
Was never hot. Oh, spare me days,
Poor cow, I know he orter won !
“There ain’t a better horse been foaled.
He’s handsome as a picture there.
He’s got the pace. He’s good as gold—
Gordstruth, it’s ’ard. It’s just despair
What makes him hang his napper so.
He feels as how he’s been disgraced—
A field of duffers laid him low.
By three old crocks—mere cows to go—
Poor Rifllebutt has been outpaced.
“I love that neddy. Dear old chap,
We’ve cobbers been for years, and soon’s
He’s entered for the handicap,
Sez I: ‘We’ve carried home the spoons!’
And, oh, he was a shinin’ light!
When, polished to the final hair,
We trots him out this mornin’, bright
And early, trained and quite all right,
I feels X haven’t got a care.
“Sez X: ‘lt is a hundred quid
To one on Riflebutt to-day.’
And s’elp me, see jisff what he did—
He finished in a rotten way.
I thought he’d win the whole course round.
There’s nothin’ was to say he shouldn’t
Till some big bookie (rotten hound!)
Laid me a level hundred pound
To nothin’ that the beggar wouldn’t!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


IF YOU HAVE TO HIT —HIT HARD
If by chance you find a quarrel forced
upon you, learn to take your own
part in a capable manner. Learn to
hit and hit hard. It does not take
a strong man to hit hard —anyone
can do it if he has the science and
knows how. The wild, whirling, aim-
less fighter seldom gets anywhere and
is always an object of ridicule to
onlookers. Learn to put the laugh
on the other fellow.
1 Teach
We specialise in high-class Box-
ing Gloves and shall be pleased
to supply prices oh application.
Boxing by Post
—teach you all the points of the game, beginning
with a thorough grounding in the rudiments of Box-
ing. I take you through every move, punch, stop
and counter —I teach you facts about my craft
based on my own practical experience—that are
quite out of the ordinary. Hundreds of enthusiastic
students throughout Australia are practising the
Baker Boxing Course under my own personally-
dictated advice and criticism.
Just write your name and address across this adver-
tisement and post it to me with three stamps for
postage, and 1 will send you FREE a copy of my
interesting Booklet, “Scientific Boxing in the Home,”
which tells all about my methods, fees, etc.
5 <
s s£«&
if-®:- :WW§
>SSx www ; »:«:w:«assssHmg?mByfec^K?
s*w.v
n IS
w?
...
te:
v-XvX; ::•; •• •••• •••A^yy/A^^AAAAwiv.'vS:-.
;->xte<Sw;
| Ugl
• “T iWi "' x :■: •
]WSm
mmSm.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,
333 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street (Corner Crown Street), SYDNEY.
KURRAJONG
MOTOR TRIALS
4th September, Open Class,
Ist and 2nd Places Won by
( ICEFIELD
Regd.
MOTOR. OIL )
British and Best.
C.C.WakefieldSCo. Ltd.
Union House, George Street, Sydney;
and London.
r: m
■y-yy
y
, 5
.
*
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Over the World -
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
X SUITABLE FOB
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER, ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPUCATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 U.P.0.,
MELBOURNF.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 Q.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
1
m
'M
wr
I
\o*
AND
COUGHS, COLDS, SC.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
DOSE. —Give to a one-year-old a
teaspoonful of the Mixture; two years,
a dessertspoonful; four or five years,
a tablespoonful j six to eight years,
one-and-a-half tablespoonfiil; ten to
twelve years, two tablespoonsful; for
fifteen and upwards; two-and-a-half
tablespoonsful.
These Doses to It given every Six
Hours until the Patient is nearly well;
then twice a day till quite well.
None genuine without my Signature:
J'rtc-.
J?or further Directions refer
to Sides of Bottle.
N.B.—Persons found Infringing
■ | Trade .Marks will be prosecuted,
This is the familiar label that is found on
every bottle of
GREATHEAD’S
MIXTURE
the safe, sure, and time-tested remedy for
Colds, Coughs, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Quinsy, Tonsilitis, Influenza and all Bron-
chial Troubles.
Chemists and Grocers sell it in generous-sized
bottles. If you would safeguard your health
always
Have a Bottle by you for
Colds or Sore Throats.
TONE UP YOUR
LIVER.
by taking “Greatoids,” the small but very
effective Liver Pills. They are sold at 1/-
and 1/6 by grocers and chemists. Their
action is mild and natural, and they don’t
form the pill habit. Don’t suffer from bilious-
ness or constipation.
TAKE
GREATOIDS.
AN EXCEPTIONAL SHIPMENT OF
THE CELEBRATED
“OMEGA”
Hair Clippers
Spare plates to cut three different lengths included.
12/6 per set. Postage 6d. extra.
A. A. MARKS, LIMITED,
Importers of Tobaccos, Cigars and Cigarettes,
Head Office: 376 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
SHOPS EVERYWHERE.
Economical Motive Power.
There is scarcely any class of machinery but what can be driven far
more advantageously, efficiently and cheaply by electricity than by
any other power.
“RHODES” MOTORS
are built to stand continuous and varied service, take up but a few
square feet of floor-space, and are liberally safeguarded against break-
down ; of British manufacture, amply rated, and comply with all
x*equirements of the British Board of Trade; fitted with double-ring
oiling device which assures perfect lubrication.
SINGLE PHASE. Start up on full load; of the repulsion induction
type, and specially suitable for pumps, for driving hoisting apparatus
in mines, and for any other apparatus in which it is imperative that
the motor start instantly on full load.
Manufactured by RHODES MOTORS
LTD., DONCASTER, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents:
HOMEWOOD § O’NEILL Ft,
Head Offices and Warehouse: 173-176 William
Street, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 1: Somerset Place, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 3: Perrars Street, South Melb.
Sydney Office: 375 Georae Street.
r
PERFECTION MARINE ENGINES
in any size for Pearling Schooners,
Working Boats, Pleasure Launches,
Canoes, Dinghies, etc.
«
r
Fwtcrwftoa!
2 1 /z to % H.P.
Heavy Duty
Type.
An exceedingly sturdy
and reliable Single-
Cylinder model. Ideal
for the light launch
where engine space is
limited. Equipped
with weather-proof
igniter for certain
spark in all weathers.
MR. H. JORGENSEN, well-known Sydney stevedore, writes: —
I have been running one of your 4-h.p. marine engines fitted with
weather-proof igniter in my 20ft. by 7ft. 6in. beam double-ender work-boat
for last two years, using it day and night in all weathers, boarding
incoming ships. I do 6 to 7 m.p.h., averaging 50 miles per 24 hours, and
am often 30 miles out to sea. I will be pleased to demonstrate my
engine to anyone requiring an outfit, as it has never failed to bring me
home.—(Signed) H. JORGENSEN.
Immediate Delivery from Stock
of Caille Perfection Outboard and Bantam (inboard) Motors,
also 1-, 2- and 4-cylinder types from 2 to 30 H.P., for light or
heavy duty. Write for catalogue and all particulars to
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA AND PACIFIC ISLANDS.
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney. 138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
344-6 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Cable Address—“Brosbenson.”
C. 337.


11
11 JS
Ready-to-wear Suits
f< The Store for Men. ”
jpARMER’S specialize in Ready-to-wear clothing..
Scientific study of measurements has evolved
standards assuring all the essential characteristics of
made-to-order apparel.
PBl —Young Men’s Ready-to-wear Suits, two-button style;
rounded lapels, usual pockets, seam at back, no vent.
Coat medium length; vest five buttons. Trousers side and
hip pockets, cuff bottoms. Light and dark grey striped
Australian All wool Tweed. Price 90/-
Plain stripe or small check designs in dark brown, light,
medium and dark greys. Prices .. 95/-, 105/-, 115/-
Light Weight English Worsteds and Tweeds, including
greys, browns, and fawns. 126/-, 135/-, 147/-, 168/-
FARMER’S :: SYDNEY
Box 497, G.P.O. We Pay Carnage.
BEAUTY OF LINE.
It is the aim of Shave de-
signers and tailors to create
and develop the line most
becoming to the individual.
Unfettered by the need to fit
gowns before completion,
they are given every oppor-
tunity for success.
SHAVE,
Ladies’ Tailors, Centreway,
Dressmakers, Melbourne.
miiiK ,®n(ojyißS
Vanity Fair Silk
Gloves are so
good, so genuine in quality
and character of work-
manship, so handsome,
well-fitting and serviceable
that they spell real economy
to every woman.
What is more, they are
distinctly stylish in every
line. Get Vanity Fair Silk
Gloves at your drapers and
be sure to read the guar-
antee that goes with every
pair. VF 29
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
Lieut.-Governor Irvine and family will
return to Stonington after a week or two at
their own home at Eltham, as it will fall
to their lot to house and entertain Excel-
lencies from other States who are coming
over to see the Cup. There is no G.-G. in
residence in Melbourne just now to share
these little responsibilities.
The Forsters will have a hedge of gent-
helps. In addition to the five lately
gazetted and a trio of military aides (Gen-
erals Coxen, Grimwade and Brand), they
have taken on Capt. Duncan Hughes, of
Adelaide. Now Jim Fairbairn, who lost the
use of one arm after falling from his British
’plane, has been told to join his brother-in-
law on the staff.
That attractive young man who made a
stir at Geelong and thereabouts during the
golfing frivolities and was then taken charge
of that he might explain a few things about
cheques, etc., turns out to be a shell-shock
patient who had got away from a home in
a neighboring State, and is a subject there-
fore only for compassion. He has, of course,
been returned to his friends.
Attorney-General Arthur Robinson, who
has been holidaying and incidentally talking
about loans in Britain, is expected back in
Melbourne to-day. He will just about have
time to see the curtain go down on the ses-
sion. But he is untroubled —he sits in the
House with the plush covers.
Bigjohn Forrest’s widow is feeling quite
cheerful since her favorite niece, Muriel
North, whom she, gave away last year to an
Indian Army officer, came back on a long
visit to her native. Westralia.
Geelong has an attractive visitor from
Maoriland, Miss Fairie Dennistoun. She
has been the heroine of parties till she hates
the sight of cake and tea. Mummer Reynolds
Dennistoun is a kinsman of the lady, who
is always ready to extend a friendly hand
to any Australian pals who drop in at
Dunedin. She sports the sort of complexion
which i.s only acquired by having a glacier
just outside your window.
Leslie Stuart’s handsome wife has re-
sumed her cheery,smile and begins to think
of Cup Week chiffonery. After many anxious
weeks her mother, Mrs. Hayward, is on the
road to convalescence.
Francis Boardman Clapp left a notable
family behind him. Eldest son Harold is
now on the eve of his return to Melbourne
as Railway Commissioner. His wife was
formerly Vivien Noel, daughter of Judge
Noel, of Brisbane. Brother Tim Clapp is
busy with the electrification of suburban
railways. A pair of his sisters are the
owners of “Sorelle,” the smart chiffon-shop.
Another is Mrs. Hector MacDonald. Adel-
aide Clapp is one of the leading lights in
Melbourne Christian Science circles. Still
another is the widow of Major Arthur Lang-
ley, whose work at the Ballarat Military
Camp gave him little strength to fight
against an attack of meningitis which he
had .stamped out amongst the Diggers.
“Lady Molly Howard’s” stay in Mel-
bourne was very short, and the curious
hardly realised that she had arrived before
she sailed for England on the Narkunda.
The Mask and Domino Ball for the
Queen Victoria Hospital, due at the St.
Kilda Hall on October 19, will be a socially
heavy-weight event, under the particular
care of the Mitchell dame, with daughter
Nancy and Dr. Mollison's daughter sharing
the worries.
A word of warning to the little dear who
thinks of marrying any old thing with a
view to promptly going off in a huff
and waiting the result of a legal claim on
the estate he leaves behind him. The widow
of a farmer learned last week that even a
wife who starts with the best intentions
doesn’t necessarily get married to hubby’s
property. The poor man in this case went
insane nearly 30 years ago, after three years
of wedded anxiety. Then he was allowed
out of the asylum, and wife had another 12
months’ fear of him before she separated.
Then his mind relapsed, and when next he
came to reason his sister took him in hand,
and was his housekeeper for a quarter of a
century. His wife had relinquished the job
for good and all. He made a will in his
sister’s favor, and the Judge decided that it
was correct. Holy bonds of matrimony, as
they are forged in this benighted State,
had not bound the husband to leave sixpence
to a lawful wife who couldn’t be blamed tor
leaving him. In this matter they are more
civilised even in Sydney.
The Housewives’ Union, under the leader-
ship of Mrs. Gleneross, has begun to prod
the profiteer with a hatpin. The lady (then
Miss Eleanor Cameron) first loomed in the
Melbourne public’s eye as secretary of the
Women’s League; but she threw up that job
on finding that the show was directed by
party politicians. The Housewives’ Union
headquarters are at Clyde House, and
branches flourish in every suburb. When
the sugar famine set in, Mrs. Gleneross
wangled several tons of the much-needed
commodity from Prime Minister Hughes
and 1 ’ weighed it out to members at cost price.
Then the union bought tea by the ton,
which it resold at Is. Gd. and 2s. a pound.
Now it is seeking suburban blocks of land
where growers can sell their oranges and
cabbages direct to the consumer; and there
are schemes afoot in relation also to fish.
V ic. State-school kiddies are writing essays
for prizes offered by the Goold League in
connection with the Bird Day celebration on
October 8. How would it do for Billy
Hughes to offer a special or consolation
trophy on the question propounded to him by
the honorable and learned investigator and
collector of curios, Ewing, J.—“ What sort
of a bird is this Shepherd V” Of course the
youngsters, like Judges, would have to rely
mainly on analogous cases, and might cite
the Shepherd’s Companion, listed by Leach
as. an indication that the Shepherd variety
would be likely to become snappy if a gilt-
spurred rooster became saucy at mealtime.
Dame Mitchell is president of the anneal
for £20,000 for the Queen Victoria Hospital
In peace or war this lady has been an ardent
worker for the public good. She was a
member of the Red Cross Council from the
beginning of war until the end of 1915 She
was chairwoman of
the Home Hospitals
Committee here dur-
ing the early part of
the war, and organ-
ised work in Vic-
torian camps and
hospitals, as well as
working personally
at the chief depot.
In 1915 the ener-
getic woman left for
England and began
work for the Austra-
lian Red Cross in
London. She was
head of the hospital-
visiting and distri-
buting depbt, and
so came in touch
with thousands
of Diggers in Blighty. (There were
400 or 500 hospitals on the list.)
Appointed Assistant Red Cross- Commis-
sioner in 1918, she remained in England
until 1919. She is now on the committee
of the Red Cross convalescent homes and
the farm colony. On top of all she cheer-
fully piled the appeal for the Queen Vic-
toria, the only Australian hospital staffed
by women for women, It never before made
a public appeal, and it is not in debt even
now; but it badly needs more money in
order to extend its work.
Adelaide saunters in :
The Anglican Synod opened this week, and the town
has been full of dignity and saintliness. The
meeting tackled Prohibition and came to the, con-
clusion that it wasn’t the right way to go about
the business of reform. Dr. Milne, in broad Scotch,
strongly opposed the drought, and the broad-minded
old man was strongly supported by little Archdeacon
Clampett and Can'on Bleby. The majority endorsed
their sentiments.
John McCormack is shaking the dust of Adelaide
off his feet. After he had sung to crowded houses
whose enthusiasm must have moved even the most
successful operatic tenor, a wisp of a girl “in-
sulted” the naturalised American at the conclusion
of Thursday night’s songburst by standing up and
piping “God Save the King.” Some fervent loyalists
joined in and made quite a chorus of it. So John
is cutting out his final concerts, and the booking
money is being returned to patrons, who wonder what
all the fuss is about.
The League of Loyal Women has had an annual
meeting, with Lady Weigall in the chair. They
recorded a fine amqunt of work done among the sol-
dier settlers and soldiers’ widows, and were urged by
her Ex. to do a great deal more to secure cottage
hospitals for the river garden-villages.
Most people , turned up at Tattersall’s Spring
Meeting at Morphettville prepared for a wet after-
noon’s racing ; but the large crowd enjoyed itself in
comfort. The Weigalls, of course, arrived before
the first race. The dressing was rather mixed, chilly
spring garments jostling winter clothes that have
done duty for many months and looked it.
The spectacular evening wedding of Audrey Scarfe
and Cliff Deeley, at which six of our tallest and
prettiest girls were to pfovide a beauty chorus to
the equally tall and slim bride, has been robbed of
its background, night weddings being barred at the
Cathedral. It will, therefore, be held at little St.
Matthew’s Church, Kensington.
Adelaide developed cricks in the neck at mid-day
Wednesday watching the aerial race and fight. Harry
Butler won the race/ with Lieut. Briggs second, and
then took part in an imaginary duel to the death
with Captain McNamara, V.C. Captain Butler’s
favorite trick of rolling over and over makes the
average spectator wonder if his newly-made bride
can bear to watch him stunting.
Passed out this week, J. Edwin Thomas, the
accountant who married a Kyffin Thomas, of the
Register clan.
The Orpheus Society has filled the vacancy in
its president’s chair caused by the death of E. T.
Smith. The new chief is J. G. Duncan-Hughes,
who, incidentally, is A.D.C. to the Governor-General.
There is a definite movement at last to acquire
Adam Lindsay Gordon’s old home, near Mt. Gambier.
The Government has given the local authorities a
strong hint that they should not expect the State
to find all the cash. The Tourist Bureau sends to
the South-East thousands of visitors, and this “means
a good deal for the district.” If the local-governing
bodies are willing to lend a hand, the Government
will probably buy the cottage, which is a well-
known shrine for visiting admirers of the poet, and
turn it into a museum for a collection of manuscripts
and other objects associated with him.
The Anglican Synod has appointed a committee to
work for a residential college for Adelaide Uni.
students. Nothing of the kind exists, whether for
Anglicans or any other sect, and there has long been
a demand for colleges, though so far nobody has
started to satisfy it. Some members of Synod thought
that St. Barnabas, the present Anglican training-
school, might serve; but the general feeling was
against parting with any control of it.
Revisiting Adelaide is Dr. Frederick Clindening,
who • used to be an offoer in the S. Aus. militia.
For many years he has been practising in China.
The first S. Aus. girl to land an American mil-
lionaire is Maude Plunkett, an Adelaide elocutionist
who went to the U.S.A. a few years ago and writes
scenarios for the movies. She was recently married
to Earl Hunter Collester (the “Earl” is a Christian
name, not a title), of Ohio, member of a firm
which had the second largest output of. munitions
and high explosives in the U.S. when these things
were in demand.
Mrs. E. M. Smith, who died on September 6, was
the wife of an ex-Surveyor-General, now in England,
and wrote stories for children under the sobriquet
“An Australian Mother.” One of her books, “Wild
Rosebuds,” depicts S. Aus. home life in the early
days.
Lilian Stretch will shortly add a husband
to her Royal Red Cross and other treasures.
Dr. ,T. H. McGee is to appear opposite her
in the ceremony which will take place at
St. Pat’s on September 29. The doctor is
one of Melbourne’s best-looking bachelors
and is very popular. For years his sister,
Fairie, has kept house for him, but now the
girl, who is one of the few who can live up
to such a name, is going to Macedon, where
she has bought a cot. During the war
Lilian served at Dr. Douglas Shield’s swell
Park-lane hospital.
Col. Eric Harrison and Roma Clarke, who
are to be married in November, will settle
in Toorak. The Colonel, who has a staff
billet in Melbourne, has signed a lease of
Mrs. Arthur Kennedy’s place in Tintern-
avenue. Mrs. Kennedy is taking her family
across seas for a course of foreign travel.
Dr. Eddie Spowers and pretty Beryl
Loughnan will be mated on Wednesday,
October 15, and the event, a dressy one, is
to happen at Toorak.
Violinist Gertrude Healey, who was study-
ing in Berlin when the war-gong sounded, beat
the Uhlans across the Belgian frontier by
only a few hours. The damsel had gone to
the Hun polishing her music in
London and Paris,
but Frightfulness
changed her opinion
of Teuton culture, so
she settled down in
the Fog, working
hard under the bril-
liant Albert Salmon,
whilst drawing a bow
for the war charities
of Princess Chris-
tian. Gertrude is a
Ballarat girl who
proved her ability at
South-street before
annexing a scholar-
ship at the Marshall
Hall Conservatorium.
That was in 1908.
This week she gives
her first recital in
Melbourne to show how her art has blos-
somed in the interval. The photo is by
Lafayette.
Sophie, the only daughter of Capt. and
Mrs. J. E. Morris, of Watson’s Bay, Syd-
ney, was married lately to Oswey Liley, son
of Capt. Liley, of Gravesend (Eng.), at Holy
Trinity, Surrey Hills. The bride, who was
given away by her father, wore a simple
white dress of georgette, in the bodice of
which she had pinned a spray of orange-
blossom, which had been worn by her mother
on her wedding-day. Aloft was a veil and
wreath of orange-blossom, and there was a
delicate touch of color in her bouquet of
pink azaleas.
“Oratorio” Horace Stevens has packed the
mantle of Elijah in his .Saratoga and stowed
away his outrigger and sculls. (Horace is
a bit of a Barry, you know.) Then he
gathered up the w T ife of his bosom and his
three boys, and all climbed the gangway
of the White Star liner Medic, bound for
London. He will presently delight English
concert audiences with vehement denuncia-
tions of the prophets of Baal.
Harold Gaze is to have his fairy operetta
“The Peri and the Pearl” produced at one
of the theatres about -the middle of Decem-
ber. The adventures of Turvy Wee will be
told by children, and elaborate settings are
to be used. The music is by Claud Haydon.
and the season may extend to a week, the
proceeds going to the Dr. Truby King baby-
welfare campaign. The story is whimsical,
and a strong committee is to see that it gets
every chance.
Archibald Strong and Frank Tate -have
been rounding up Melbourne’s brainsturm
for the Allan Wilkie Shakspearean season.
The G.-G. and Lady Helen, Billy and Mrs.
Hughes, and every man and woman with a
degree has promised to attend every produc-
tion, and see that their intellectual neighbors
do likewise.
Dot Brunton, paler through long absence
from Australian sunshine, bobbed her golden
head to a noisy welcome at the Royal on
Saturday night. There was the usual well-
dressed house, but the smartest stall or
d.c. vision was easily outdressed by Marie
Tempest. Marie unanimous heart-
ache with a wide-spreading frock of pink and
silver, followed by an arrangement of gold
and lace which suggested that she had been
dipped at the Mint. An outdoor dress of
cerise velvet edged with fur and accompanied
by a pair of light-grey Cossack boots com-
pleted the knock-out of her sisters in front.
Irma Caron has lately been singing in con-
junction wit'h the films at Auckland, and has
been carrying home the biggest salary that
has ever been paid in Maoriland for this
class of work. Soon the young songstress
will be heard in recitals at Wellington, and
next month travels to London to play Som-
bra in a Robert Courtneidge revival of “The
Arcadians.”
A thrill ran through the audience the
other night at the Marie Tempest show,
“Outcast.” A box filled up with the Dickin-
son family, who were immediately raked
by every lorgnette in the house. Mrs. Dick-
inson was flanked by Flossie Dickinson-
Wenman, looking plump and fair, and dancer
Maggie, in discreet black with bobbed hair.
Sydney Yates hid behind the curtain in a
morning suit with a steeplechase collar—one
of those things about 4ft. high with bars
across. It was as rowdy as a slamming
door.
Allan Wilkie’s unorthodox production of
“Macbeth” brings to the Thane of Cawdor
and his terrible little wife their own punish-
ment for their regicide. They were much
more becomingly dressed as mere subjects
than after they had come to monarchy. The
subject-lady looked nice about the head, and
Macbeth’s first appearance was a fine pic-
ture of a workmanlike warrior whose legs
had been brought up not to feel the cold.
But when they put on trappings of
sovereignty one feels sorry for both, and
chiefly for Lady M. Her crown is a shock-
ing example of the ancient taste in baubles.
It amounts to a cross between a fancy basket
and the framework of a birdcage. No up-to-
date milliner could get the inspiration of a
hat from it. Her Majesty’s sleeping outfit
is also disappointing. The Lady Macbeths of
mother’s_days used to somnambuli.se in a white
nightie, but the restless lady at the I’rmcefss’s
slumbers in a dressing-gown, seemingly.
After “Macbeth” on Saturday night the
Allan Wilkies gave a supper on the stage.
The cast in their Shakspearean costumes
mingled with the guests in their 1920 attire.
The setting of the' stage was a splash of
green tapestries, which reminded one that
there was still unrest in Ireland. The
Maudsley dame talked affably with Macbeth,
who munched sandwiches and endeavored to
keep his ginger whiskers out of the provender.
The Mitchell lady, with grey hair elegantly
dressed, showed no fear of Lady Macbeth.
Speaker Mackey and his genial spouse looked
in, and Dr. Bill Maloney, in a natty tweed
suit, shed an aura of good-fellowship. John
Monash discussed Shakspearean battle tac-
tics with Mrs. Hunter-Watts Macbeth. Dr.
Archie Strong gossiped with Professor Ernest
Scott. Mrs. Ernest showed she had solved
the problem of how to be brainy and modish.
Teddy Landor, in Second Witch’s garb,
clinked glasses of ginger-ale with the Third
Witch, the evergreen Fanny Wiseman.
Artist Butler Geo.rge, seated on a golden
settle, was surrounded by* young gallants in
mail. A discreet orchestra formed an accom-
paniment to the chatter. Such a good time
was spent that guests forgot the clock and
had almost to be wafted to the stage-door.
Sassiety is sitting back in its old winter
hangings preparing for a violent social offen-
sive in the early summer, when the new vice-
regals arrive. Everyone who claims to
be anyone is anxious to lead the social hop-
over, and, with so much local help on the
new G.-G.’s staff, the Old Brigade should be
easily able to push back the battalions of
climbers which were formed during and iiist
after the war.


DELCO-LICHT USERS
all over Australia Speak
Highly of its Work, of
its Low Cost of Running, and of the Great Benefits Gained.
OVER 100,000 SATISFIED USERS. v
Ask the Man Who Owns One. —There* a Satisfied User Near You.
*•*/*»’
',£s)■" ■'
&* an
' ' &**w
s* veA \.vt<v e * * e®* o^- tVie
vVI
T e V**f e»e , AVOB *° vd * .OS' 1 M»-
p»»«' 9 vV>» 45 ° eX T <d e ®°’. a** 4 <*M a
v*f.«s> «* mm
'*s i :- m
** e **£<%&* iet^ tot
4 . ,co^ e 9 „„ s e*
e >
s':' ." : .
V ' « „\s » c ?‘ uc vo«
e\e c “ VC S» s Ad «**
*<>«&*** p&l- |g
T#s
11
11
I
1 *’M '
i
■v.w*S
n
i#!
I
?rrr~**m
Iff*
-• •
:
i »
:
it#/’
' * 3
1
““J
&&/
|fe'
' 7T"
V
.
.
■
m
ig§
11l
... .:"is3i
lllltll
ffijftjSf* v 'tf
....-■
Mi
**+:
m
/■
*L ;V"s> - "l^*
We have been running your plant for nine months at a cost of
4s. per week in the winter months. The Delco has given me com-
plete satisfaction, and its qonvenience makes it a charm m tne
house, particularly as any of the maids or my daughters can start
the machine. The machine is as good to-day as when we got.it.
Faithfully yours, W. G. HAWKES, Adelaide.
The plant is running as well as ever and is all that can be
desired, and it has been running just on ™ <> nths now *
Methalibah, Trangie.
It is a splendid light, and is giving utmost satisfaction.
1 MRS. VICKERS, Goldsworth, Lralla.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Warburton,
Franki Ltd.,
307-311 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY.
VICTORIA:
War burton,
Franki Ltd.,
380-382 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND:
Smell ie 8 Co.
Ltd.,
BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Parsons 8
Robertson Ltd.,
GRENFELL STREET,
ADELAIDE.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Geo. Wills
8 Co.,
PERTH.
TASMANIA :
W.F.fIE.A.
Stewart,
29 CAMERON STREET.
LAUNCESTON
NEW ZEALAND: *
A. D. RILEY g‘€o. LTD.
LAMBTON QUAY,
WELLINGTON.
FARMERS CO-OP.Assn
CHRISTCHURCH.
W. A. Crowle Ltd., 161-163 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, Distributors.
-


Charles
HEIDSIECK?)
Vintage 1911
(MIIM
HE PLUS ULTRA j
T
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Oriental
Hotel
is accepted as Vic-
toria's greatest
achievement in fashion-
able hotel service. It
is distinguished by its
sumptuous appoint-
ments, service and
environment, and offers
the tourist altogether
delightful accommoda-
tion.
Collins St. Melbourne.
nninnitinill I
Do Not Be Alarmed
At the Menace of Colds
that is borne on every cool breeze.
Keep a bottle of ■ Bonnington’s
BOKNIHOTON'S
CAHBAfiEEN
IRISH " MOSSi
CU>RCK BOMHDWTQN J
aSi3»!isrc
'..'“.{.■viKiV”*/
Irish Moss handy, and
have a perfectly free
mind this Winter
time.
A
IRISH MOSS
Get a bottle to-day—
insist on Bonnington’s,
and take no proffered
substitute.
--is the standard remedy for Coughs, Colds, In-
fluenza, B ronc hitis, Whooping Cough, and all Chest
complaints. R A. 22
k.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Dayid Jones
SYDNEY
For his second wedding the other morn-
ing the 76-year-old bridegroom Archdeacon
Boyce discarded the leather apron which he
wears in his life-size portrait in the National
Gallery, but retained his cotton-wool side-
levers and his prohibition principles. The
Bishop of Armidale left his flock to the
underlings while he hastened to the Pat-
riarch’s wedding, and he and Deap Talbot
welded the bonds strong and sure. The lady
is the widow Burton, whose former .spouse
was a captain in the R.N.R. To all appear-
ances she is just in the forties; she wore
cheeks as prettily pink as briar roses and a
sensible navy-blue lustre costume, with a
neat little white vest to liven it up. and
looked as if she had just happened into St.
Andrew’s as an interlude in the morning
shopping. So St. Paul’s rectory at Redfern
gets a new mistress, and the-Archdeacon bids
fair to run Isaac and Jacob a close second.
The one hundred invited sat sedately on
the chairs arranged for them in the ballroom
while Dame Margaret and the heads of the
Furlough House Committee told of the need
for more funds if the wives and kiddies of
soldiers who sleep in France are to con-
tinue to have their fortnight by the sea.
And surely Sydney is going to put a bit in
the hat for its soldiers’ orphans before it
writes its cheque for any other hustle, or
drive, or campaign, no matter how worthy!
But it was on Thursday that aides Lamb
and Allison juggled most expertly with the
leather chairs; for their Exes.-had bidden the
United Oharities-day helpers come and plot
for the holding of Sydney to ransom next
month. They were old and young and
middle-aged . and the Mayoress of Waterloo,
mostly wearing the wide-area new Spring
hats, so that all you got of the speakers
was their voices** —Minister Dooley coming
such an. easy first in the elocution contest
that he is suspected of having Bell’s Reciter
hidden up his sleeve. The gent.-helps almost
sweated blood in their agitation lest there
shouldn’t be enough chairs to go round.
An early call to tea on the verandahs saved
the situation; and the women at the tail-end
of the long procession bore up bravely,
remembering the multiplication of the five
barley loaves and the three small fishes.
Pneumonia came in with the west wind
and laid a finger on The Bulletin’s “Hop”
last week. But, though the veteran laugh-
maker has to turn and strain his eyes to
make out the distant 70th milepost on his
journey, he was able to push the finger aside,
and at latest was reported “doing well.”
The Orthopaedic Department of the North
Shore Hospital got a good lift from the con-
cert in the Conservatorium last week. The
enthusiasts in this branch of the hospital’s
work set out first of all to get something like
±4O; then their imagination leaped to £lOO.
The result of their efforts is more than four
times that amount. The concert was crowded
out, and Sir Walter and Dame Margaret set
the seal of approval on the sturdy North
Side hospital’s determination to help itself.
The two outstanding features of the fancy-
dress ball in aid of the Catholic University
Women’s Club were the impersonator of
Gaby .Deslys and Mr. Gilbert Hughes. Gil-
bert since his return from abroad is so very
English that he talks as if the Adam’s apple
had rolled into his mouth ; but his manners
are perfection. He squired Mrs. Toohey.
who came in black velvet and diamonds to
award the prizes; and both were supported
by Miss Egan. The Gaby Deslys costume
was a daring thing in tights
and a flame-colored Pleated knee-length ninon
slurt. There was nothing but an expansive
V for the back above the waistline; but a
towering head-dress covered all deficiencies.
The wearer, from height and dimensions, is
suspected of being a knut out for a lark.
The subtlety of black silk stockings was
made manifest at the Mosman Rowing Club
ball last week. More than half the young
things wore their legs and feet black even
against the palest pink and blue tucks and
flounces, and scored heavily over the girls
who had shoes and stockings “to match.”
The Warringah Hall is tucked away in a
quiet street that hesitates between Neutral
Bay and Mosman. Its floor is something to
be remembered, and the Rowing Club had
decorated it with banner and pennant and
blades in addition to the usual trails and
loops of foliage. The chaperones, male and
female, were models for chaperones the world
over, and sat discreetly and cosily in a side
room playing bridge.
There is no such thing as skating on thin
ice at the Glaciarium any longer. It has be-
come frozen with respectability, and the other
night the specially-inviteds to view the wild
carnival madness were Sir Walter and Lady
Davidson and divorce Judge Gordon and his
big-eyed little wife. After an hour’s watching
the marriage-dissolver was forced to the un-
expected conclusion that there is at least one
other thing as easy to slip on as a wedding-
ring. At wide intervals Torzillo’s orchestra
flung out banners of music, to which Powder
Puffs and Cards and the Aerial Post and
Peace Bonds, the Keystone firemen, the
Roman Captain, little Romance, festive Bon-
bons and six hundred, other notions in fancy
costumes revolved swiftly in their ghost-like,
noiseless rushes; while the gaily-colored fly-
catcher decorations grew heavy and glistening
in the moisture from the ringed-in icefield.
Half-way through the evening Lena Uksila
swooped like some graceful Northern bird
upon the cleared expanse, arid soared airily
or flew low above the glistening surface.
Ordinary skating terms don’t apply to this
lady of the exquisite limbs and the beautiful
movements. She is ari ice princess who lives
in a Hans Andersen fairy dream.
The Lucas : Tooth baronetcy has been re-
vived by George R. and I. It lapsed a year
or so on the death of the last of the
three sons’ of the first baronet, but in recog-
nition of Robert’s “service to the Empire and
the gallant conduct in the war” of his three
sons, the title is revived in the person of the
eldest son of the eldest daughter, now at
Eton, who will add Lucas-Tooth to his own
name of Hugh Durrand.
Dame Chisholm of Kantara viewed another
niece being married last week. This time
it was Joan, fourth bud of the late Arthur
Chisholms, of Carrawarra, Goulburn; and
her life-choice was Captain Arthur Hamil-
ton, whose dad was YVilliam Hamilton, of
Northern Victoria. The unobtrusive Pres-
byterian Church at Woollahra was brightened
with all the usual wedding finery. There
were three bridesmaids and two pages; a
best man, a groomsman and a small group
of relations and family friends to see that
Chaplain-Captain Gordon tied the knot
firmly. Later the bride’s sister, Miss Chis-
holm, entertained the ' guests at Walton,
Woollahra.
“White hair, pink cheeks, orange eyes” is
the description of Dora Ohlfsen written on
the passport given her by the authorities
when she was visiting the devastated French
provinces. She was born in Ballarat and is
another Australian
woman who sculps,
and artistic Sydney
still remembers the
medallions which
ornamented her
studio in Bathurst-
street when last the
lady was here. Her
headquarters for
many years have
been in Rome, al-
though of late she
has spent sufficient
time jn England to
complete portraits of
Balfour, Lloyd
George and Asquith.
This time she has
come to Australia
with her Anzac
Memorial Medal, which she designed when in
Italy, and which, by a special concession,
was struck at the Italian mint. They are to
be sold at £2 2s. each, inclusive of cases, and
the proceeds are to be devoted to war
charities. Sir Walter and Dame Margaret
have extended their wing to the sales.
At St. James’s, Gladys Elizabeth John-
ston, of Woolwich Point, gave Philip Leth-
bridge King the lifelong right to pay her
flat rent and provide butter for her morn-
ing toast. Philip James is the son of the
John Lethbridge Kings, of ' St. Ronan’s,
Bellevue Hill. Another of the seed of the
old Governor, the Rev. Raymond King, list-
ened, to the contract with Padre Micklem as
witness.- Gladys :Elizabeth looked younger
even than ,her, 20 years as she moved, all
white satin and silver-lace flounces, to join"
her almost-middle-aged husband. A feature
of the wedding-gown was the draped train
that fell from one shoulder and was worked
in orange blossom and silver lace. A morn-
ing mist disguised as a tulle -veil bewitched
the eye; and a pearl necklace and an armful
of hyacinths and sweet-peas were the last
touches to the bridal .finery. Pretty Jean
Watson and Madge Cutler attended to her
needs in pink taffetas and lacy-black hats
and posies of pink hyacinths and forget-me-
nots. At Usher’s Hotel there was a wedding
dinner, for 150 guests, and everybody had a ;
real night out. Bride’s mother was not at
the party, having met with an operation
for appendicitis the day before: but the
newly-wed pair motored out to Wootton as
soon as the last mark was made on the
register to let her see the undimmed wedding
finery.
Leoda Williams, of IMosman, became Mrs.
W. Fair-Jones last week, by holy rite of
book and bell and John Ferguson. She wore
a bridal souffle of georgette and silver lace
and tissue, was accompanied by three brides-
maids, and the bridegroom balanced with a
corresponding number of groomsmen. The
Marlborough supplied the almond-icing, and
bride’s mother wrapped herself in black
cashmere de soie with etceteras of gold tissue
and jet to receive the guests. The Moun-
tains and the Caves supplied a setting for
the. honeymoon, and Werriwa will furnish
a wardrobe for the wonderful trousseau.
Another marriage job neatly executed at
St. Stephen’s was that of Kathleen Edith
Irevost Buchanan, the second bud of the
Andrew Buchanans, of Murrumbilla, Narra-
bn, and Hugh B. May, of Mayfield, in the
same district —his late dad used to write pre-
scriptions at Bundaberg (Q.). The bride
sought the seclusion of a nigger-brown coat
and skirt and the same unobtrusive tone in
hats, but enriched the outfit with beautiful
skunk furs. Bride’s parents entertained the
aimost exclusively family party at Tilgonda,
their Rose Bay home.
Port Moresby had a wedding about the time
the last mail left, when Netta Matthews, of
Roseville, in this State, became Mrs. Jack
Iveelan. The ’groom, who hails from Vic-
toria. and wore a couple of pips in the
A.1.F., is a resident magistrate in Papuan
territory, and the future home of the pair
will be about 30 miles from Government
house. The wedding took place at the mis-
sion church at Konedobu, much hung with
frangipani for the occasion. Sadie Heffer-
nan, of Junee, supported the bride, while a
choir of native boys supplied the choral part
of the service.
Marion Hut, only child of Captain and
Mrs. Hut, of Allandale, Surrey, married
Major F. E. Chappell early in August at
St. 1 aul s, Knightsbridge. The bride is well
known in Sydney, her mother having been
Elizabeth Marks. Daughter, who inherits
mamma s good looks, had a severely beauti-
ful frock of dull charmeuse and wore no
jewels, but carried an armful of white car-
nations. Three bridesmaids, mostly kilted
tulle and transparent brimmed hats, were in
attendance. Bride’s mother, a symphony in
grey, held a reception at the Hyde Park
Hotel, and among the Sydneyites present
were the Harry Leveys, the whole De Salis
family and Mrs. Harper.
Dr. Elsie Dalyell, a graduate of Sydney
tu’n • ,° did excellent research work on
the British Food Commission, first in Eng-
land and later in Vienna, is off on September
Jo for another year’s work on the Commis-
sion in Vienna. On Friday she spoke of
her work to a full meeting of the 8.M.A.,
mentioning that the Vienna medical faculty
had, received the Commission with open
arnas. This week the Uni. women give Elsie
the glad hand at Farmer’s.
Philip Newbury is really and truly going
off to America to give our cousins a chance
to hear the voice that has sung before all
the since-uncrowned heads of Europe.
Philip’s voice is an evergreen beauty, and
his singing of such a thing as “Go Not,
Happy Day,” can teach even the divine
McCormack something. As a youngster Phil
belonged to Dunedin, in Maoriland, where
dad and mum were the top-hole pastrycooks.
But the boy’s singing all day long the
bakehouse was not regarded with favor ; and
in the end he worked and saved (quite
unaided) with one end in view—ltaly and
the elder Garcia. He got there, too, and the
singing-master taught his “best pupil” all
he knew of breathing and production and
artistry. Professor Woodhouse and Min-
ister for Education Mutch and Jack Brown-
low are busy over a farewell concert at the
Town Hall on October 12.
Padre N. J. Cocks’s “Betty Songs” went
liltingly at the Congregational Hall the other
afternoon. Ruby Cole, with a huge Union
Jack for background and the Australian
Flag draping the front of the stage, brought
the pretty story of the verse.'home to every
heart present, and that is easy enough to do
in an Australian audience when the hero is
an Anzac and your heroine the true-hearted
girl he left behind. Producer Beaumont
Smith . listened with the film-maker’s ear
which is really more than half an eye; and
Mrs. MacKinnon and other Red Cross heavy-
weights clapped with stropg approval. Lilian
Frost provided the , musical setting for the
story, which is soon to start out for “the
Provinces” on a money-making expedition
for Red Cross purposes.
In Old Drury, at the first night of “The
Garden of Allah,” Mrs. Knowles, who sat
with mother to witness sister Madge’s
triumph, had a '-curious meeting with an
old friend. ' She was vainly trying to extract
a pair of opera-glasses from the receptacle
in front of her, and had given up for lost
the sixpence she had dropped in the slot,
when a handsome and beautifully-gowned
woman sitting behind leaned forward and
instructed her to shake the box. Then as
the glasses came tumbling out, the hand-
some woman laughed and said, “Hello, Lily
Titheradge!” and beholcP it was Rose Mus-
grove, and the two hadn’t met for 15 years.
Rose s planter-husband was with her, a tall,
handsome-looking chap; they have been put-
ting their only child, a boy, at school at
inchester, and are returning to Ceylon in
December. Rose’s married name being Gar-
rick, it follows that the boy is called David.
The beautiful grounds of the R.S.T. Club
will be open to the public on Saturday after-
noon and a garden f@te and aquatic carni-
val will throw its delights to the visitor.
Ihere are to be fortune-tellers, and trips to
1 ort Denison, and jazzing on the wide veran-
dahs of the Club. Dame Margaret opens the
glittering affair at 2.30, and the gate-money
goes to make the North Sydney Soldiers’
Memorial worthy.
Sargents’ ballroom will be all a-glitter
next Saturday evening when the Old Boys
from Sydney High School bring their best
girls to their own party, and demonstrate
that a heavyweight of brain can be supported
by a featherweight of jazz-steps.
This is Jack Abbott (“Tommy Corn-
stalk”), whose new book, “Castle Vane,” is
being published by Angus and Robertson this
month. J. H. M. Abbott needs no introduc-
tion to Australian readers ; his. stories of
old Sydney have
made many a page
of The Bulletin
glow with the color
of the times when
many a good man
and true was out on
a ticket of leave. The
new book deals with
red coats and con-
victs (God bless
them!) and with
hearts that beat high
with the hope of the
new, clean land, Syd-
ney and the Upper
Hunter are the
scenes through which
Governor Macquarie
and his Sophy pass,
kindly and grave
and just. Abbott is a son of that former
Speaker Abbott who helped Barton and
O’Connor and the others frame the Aus-
tralian Constitution ; and he has simply satu-
rated himself with the early history of the
land he has come back to live in, after giving
both S’Africa and England a turn.
Brisbane’s social stocktaking :
Captain Don Irvine, a Brisbane boy who saw ser-
vice with the Royal Irish Rifles, is to manage the
Nonowai plantation, Samarai.
Teddy Cahill and George Brooke have arrived at
Perth after a successful tour of India and there-
abouts. The travellers will give several concerts in
Melbourne and Sydney before returning to Brisbane.
Captain E. K. Carter, M.C., who organised the
Aus. Medical Congress, is to run the Lavender Day
appeal. The cash is to be used for providing soldiers’
homes. •
“Baby” Loftus, one of the most charming of the
local V.A.D. sisterhood, is to be married shortly.
Sybil Brand gave a party for her, and there was a
great congregation of V.A.’s.
The Housewives’ Association has rolled
up its sleeves at last over the problem of
the breakfast butter. A Town Hall meeting
the other afternoon was a gathering of stern-
faced, determined women, one of whom, Mrs.
Ashley Thompson, presided ; Mrs. Glencrossj,
president of the sturdy Melbourne branch,
and secretary Mrs. Jordan, together with
Perdriau, M.L.A., whose very name is a
guarantee of provision against a rainy day,
had all a word of reproach for the Necessary
Commodities Commission. "Two polite resolu-
tions were framed and passed, asking the
Government’s help in bringing down the
price of the pat and the leaping cow; and
in the coldly-resolute eye of the association
there was a threat of direct action.
Dr. Violet Plummer, of Adelaide, is in
Sydney with her sister, Mrs. Grose. Violet
is true to name; she’s a shy bird who takes
flight at mention of an interview.
It is said that Colonel Grigg, of the
Prince’s staff, will on his return to England
succeed Sir George Parker as secretary to
the Rhodes Trust.
Mrs. Ernest Watt is still lamenting the
loss of that Kolinsky sable cape. She bought
it in London, and there was none other like
it here. It reached her knees at the back, and
in front was much shorter; tails of the
sable edged it all round. The Watts have
taken one of the flats made out of Crath-
bourne, once the home of the J. C. Williamson
family, and recently acquired by Reginald
Allen, who shares the building.
Flautist John Lemmone has many com-
positions to his credit. Sales to America
alone for July reached the thousand. In
the States his unaccompanied “Voices of the
Night,” which is gramophoned, has much
popularity. This piece dates from the time
when the late Liedertafel gave moonlight
harbor concerts. To the flautist one night,
at his then home at Rose Bay, came the dis-
tant singing, as the concert-boat went upon
its way; and thus was born a widely-popular
flute solo of extraordinarily difficult tech-
nique.


I “ •
m
n.
ia>
1853
ESTB
hardy brothers ltd
JEWELLERS
GEM RINGS
Of High Quality.
Diamond and Pearl
Three Stone,
£225.
Emerald and Diamond
Square Cluster,
£95.
Emerald and Diamond
Three Stone,
£l5O.
Diamond Half Hoop,
£7O.
For quality v design and
workmanship, Hardy
Bros.’ selection of
Diamond and Gem
Jewellery is unap-
proachable in the
Commonwealth. Only
flawless Gems of finest
quality are used; many
of the designs being of
Parisian origin are
exclusive, and the
workmanship is of
highest standard. All
Gems are set in Pure
Platinum.
The Rings illustrated
are but representative
of many choice designs
available, a selection
of which will be sent
on approval, if desired.
Five per cent, discount
allowed on all cash
purchases.
Diamond Fancy Shape,
£250.
Diamond Fancy Shape,
£OB.
Fine Diamond, Single
Stone, with Diamond
Shoulders,
£260.
Diamond and Sapphire
Fancy Cluster,
£2B.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Jl6-118 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
London.
298 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Gas Cookers That Serve
Two Generations.
These well-made Gas Cookers are made to .serve two generations. The Australian
and English makes being made of Cast Iron, there is nothing to wear out, except
the burners, which can always be replaced with duplicates. Stove-makers give
attention to economy these days, and produce Stoves that make the most use
of the Gas. Here are some good cookers, on a moderate gas consumption.
Australian Gas Cookers, small size, £4/5/-, £4/19/-, £5/12/6.
Family size, £6/15/-, £B, £B/5/-
English Gas Cookers, by Fletcher, Russell &’ Co., small, £5/6/6/;
Family size, £l5.
American Gas Cookers, small, £4/10/-; Family size, £B. Table-
high size—prevents stooping— £l4.
Call and inspect. Catalogues posted.
JOHN BANKS 8 SON PTY. LTD.,
324 Pitt Street (near Liverpool Street), SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE,
li\
3=s=o
“ENSIGN-POPULAR”
REFLEX CAMERA.
What You Can Do with a Reflex.
•• Ensign-Popular ” Reflex.
The “Ensign-Popular” Reflex is a
universal Camera. For portraiture it
is ideal, permitting the study of the
subject until “just that happy expres-
sion” appears.
For Child or Animal Photography the
restless little people or pets may be
followed and focussed on the screen
until the propitious moment arrives.
Express Trains, Athletes in movement,
Birds in flight, nothing is so rapid but
that the “Ensign-Popular” can cope
with it.
The Photography of Architecture comes
within its scope, equally with that of
Aeroplanes.
In fact, there is no class of Photo-
graph beyond the capacity of the
“Ensign-Popular” Reflex.
Indispensable to the Expert
Invaluable to tbe Beginner.
Takes Pictures 3i x 4£ Inches.
PRICE. LIST:
“ Ensign-Popular ” Reflex Camera and Three Single Metal Slides.
No. 4X, with “Ensign” Anastigmat Lens, F/4.5, Gin £23/5/-
No. 4A, with “Altlis” Anastigmat Lens, F/4.5, No. 16, s|in • £25
c?
The House for GOOD Cameras,
386 George Street, Sydney.
Also at
93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
266 Collins Street, .Melbourne.
43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
144 Queen Street, Auckland;
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z,
Works and Laboratories: Booth and Trafalgar Streets, Annandale, N.S.W.
ADD YEARS TO
YOUR LIFE.
BDTTERLAC
is a SPECIALLY-PREPARED POWDERED FORM of
BUTTERMILK, containing the LACTIC BACILLUS which
PROFESSOR METCHNIKOFF (Pasteur Institute of Paris)
Discovered to be the
MOST RELIABLE REMEDY
for the
Treatment of all Troubles arising from GASTRIC and
INTESTINAL DISORDERS.
BUTTERLAC IS INVALUABLE FOR NERVE TROUBLES,
INDIGESTION, RHEUMATISM,
INSOMNIA, KIDNEY and LIVER
HEADACHES, DERANGEMENTS
and All Stomach Ailments.
BUTTERLAC IS FREE
FROM ANY DRUG.
BUTTERLAC can be taken by Adults and Children.
Butterlac is Sold in Tins, 2/6 aiu!4[6
ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Wholesale Distributors:
Victoria: DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
New South Wales: H. L. BUSSELL & CO., LTD., Meagher Street, Sydney.
Queensland: TAYLOR & COLLEDGE, LTD., Brisbane.
South Australia and Western Australia: ALFRED HARVEY & CO.,
Adelaide.
Tasmania: L. FAIRTHORNE & SON, Launceston.


Let Cuticura Be
Your Beauty Doctor
The Soap
to Purify
'Ointment
to Soothe
Let Cuticura Be
your beauty
doctor, one that
really does
something to
purify and
beautify your
hair and skin.
Bathe with
Cuticura Soap
and hot water
to cleanse the pores. If signs of redness,
roughness or eruptions are present, or dan-
druff on scalp, touch gently with Cuticura
Ointment before bathing or shampooing.
For ever* purpose of the toilet, bath and
nursery Cuticura Soap and Ointment are
ideal. Absolutely nothing better.
For sample each address: “R. Towns &
N. S. W.” Sold everywhere.
Cuticura Soap shaves without muff*
hfgh
fhgf
Learn to Draw
There’s Money
in the
Pen.
Vi
Wti*
The above j
is the title’
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
J* explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.’’
THE harry J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing',
5 Union Hou9e, Cr. George & Grosvenor Sts
SYDNEY.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE
mm
mm
in ■
* :
%
RtTISH
MADE
Perfection
131I 3 1 IN K RUBBER
BOND’S TRIPLEWEAR HOSE.
Matft in Australia.
AN IDEAL HOSE,
combining- wonderful wear with beautiful
appearance.'
Retail Selling Price, 12/11 per pair.
sanamas&ai
msaassaainEaEsi
gf
THE. WORLD'S
BEST VALUE
aaisrarg
*caa
m
T
elf.
cure
"•*» for ONOTo
INK
Beat
for
all
fifls Ifc
C anno
Cleans i"
K-egulai
British.
•21 IJ
l!
111
Shirfs
JpQ'Sn,
VA <0
'ON 0>
tA
a,
Os
55S
AS
CD
%
CK
ur>
/
a
K
A
R«
A
-k
?r>
1
m
have more than appearance
in their favor. Their wear-
ing qualities, their superior
workmanship, fit and com-
fort will win instant approval.
Sold by Leading
Shirt Departments.
ASK FOR
Thistle Pyjamas
ALSO.
Alexander Stewart
and Sons Ltd.—Makers
BRISBANE and
SYDNEY.
A.S. 20
r^
&
Eight-hour Art Union 8 Sports.
PRIZES VALUE £3500.
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
Drawn OCTOBER 30, 1920.
Ist Prize, value £750. 2nd Prize, value £3OO.
3rd Prize, value £2OO. And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by A. O. and J. O. Paxton,
of Cairns, Queensland, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1920.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in The Bulletin on
Thursday, November 4, 1920. To any person forwarding
stamped, addressed envelope, a list of the results will be
posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all towns, or direct
from ARTHUR W. YAGER, Secretary, Eight Hour Committee,
Trades Hall, Sydney.
Siiiiip
'c
Hz
-vvt
9*
The Dip you wiH Buy Again
Everywhere Vallo is rendering distinguished service.
Last season’s users are more than satisfied with the
results which this excellent Australian Dip has given
them. From all corners of the Continent come letters
conveying appreciation and repeat orders,
C ®s jjjf
Powder SHEEP DIP
is finding its way to every important station, its never-
failing efficacy, its long-lasting protection, and its
beneficial action upon the sheep are features which have
impressed every one who has used it—and they will
impress you. Order your supplies now from your
storekeeper.
Look for the Trade Mark
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGCO & CO.
MELBOURNE . SYDNEY . BRISBANE
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Alexa G.: Off our beat, anyhow... .Ruane :
Night says nothing new. But how could you
expect it to? Hasn’t the trade been working on
that subject since the first poetry-mill was built?
....Bonnie B.: Ditto (or thereabouts) as to “Joy.”
J.S.G.: The B. a few months ago gave that
matter i all the space it can spare for a while....
L.E.A.: Bad hand-written MS. has a better chance
than close-packed typewritten stuff G.P. (and
others) : Quite right; but it wasn’t “L.J.H.’s” fault.
The transposition of two words in Brooke’s line
“And is there honey still for tea?” was a last-
moment mechanical blunder, for which this office
wears sackcloth and ashes....P. Jax: Doesn’t quite
score, but we won’t mind if it “just happens”
again.... Olaf: Some ingenious rhyming, as well as
some that isn’t; but the train of thought is obscure.
Eureka: Nothing wrong with the writing; but
people have been making those points ever since
Tarsius and his missus paid their first call
It.E.A.: “Well Beloved” is best; but that “deadlier”-
“steadier” rhyme is a flaw. And they’re all less
Australian than English.... R. 0. Lea: There is
poetic feeling in both; but the good qualities don’t
counterbalance the poverty of rhymes... Red Ned: It
might be a good contribution to an encyclop;edia
Wee 8.. ihe trick on which it turns has been played
in too many pars. . .Manila : Flat, stale and unprofitable.
Luminous: Not well enough done R.L,J.:
None lifts its head above the commonplace., . .Elby:
(1) Be direct. (2) Aim at simplicity. (3) Use
adjectives grudgingly Somaroy: The interest is
too 10ca1... .H.W.S.: “Rope” misnamed. Call it
Twine at most.. . .E.T.: It. had one merit. It
was short....W. R. Stan: Give “Queen Beauty” a
little more manicuring and she will have a chance.
Others riot up, though “Coming” has good quali-
ties... .Zibanitu: You waste a capacity for verse-
making on poor material Anna Strong: Sorry,
we can’t. They don’t show even an eyelash above
the horizon where hope dawns A. Pi-card: Your
Anzac is as unreal .as his Aliceia, who is as incredible
as a Yankee film-heroine Bartlett: No promise
of a 20-bushel harvest in your “Spring”.... 8.L.D.:
Does it mean anything? Georges Le B. :* “Avni”
fails, chiefly because you haven’t tried to explain
the man’s attitude towards the Armenians. .. .Belle-
rive: Wordsworth might have written this; but Jie
didn’t :—■
....Buzzard: Rough and obscure Jimmy Sool-
imup: Phew! We buried it with a bushel of quick-
lime. .. .F.C.: If you mistrust our Post Office, regis-
ter the MS.—that offers a little protection. All
manuscript submitted to that publisher is looked
over by an expert. But high paper prices have
slowed down book-publishing locally; and most
i eeent trade prophecies don’t hold out any hope of
an early improvement. There probably won’t be
cheaper paper of the better quality for 18 months at
least Pons: The girl you introduce is a dear old
friend.... C.L.A.: Much obliged.... W. Blister: “The
Mail” ought to be worth a drink from the agents
of the car.... John S.: Interesting subject, but
the handling is much too rough R.L. J.: “Farm”
resembles a railway time-table: it has facts and
figures but no atmosphere.... Patmos: You were on
a winner and missed a place through horribly bad
riding E. 0.: “Darkness”—and a long deep sleep.
Fragrant: Too obviously student stuff
Cacoethes: You don’t make us believe he’s real....
J.W.: The admission that it is founded on a yarn
printed in London rules it out. Obliged, all' the
same.
TO ARTISTIC! (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Bert C.: Mrs. Huggins looks as if she had suffered
severely in a boiler accident Raygal: Autograph-
album art only. .. . W.D.: Don’t want English
farmers in gaiters and smocks saying, “Un baint
well at all.” This is an Australian paper. ...
C.S.G.: Plug away. The old man is better drawn
than the b0y.... M.O’C.: You tackled a difficult
thing. The old slouch hat of the A.I.F. is badly
libelled... .J.E.N.: All those ideas are suffering
from nervous debility A.McR.: Determined
attempt to be decorative. The masked siren’s feet
are too large. .. .H.P.: More animation. The figures
need an electric shock. . .F.N.: How that jest is running
round town !.. .A.K.: Why is the dark gossip looking
vacantly at the sky ? Why was she ever invented ?...
S.O’R: The idea crashed on the Art Editor’s mat.
D.M.: the officer has a swollen head. It would
be a day’s march for an ant from the corner of his
eye to his ear....F.: When it arrived the office
groaned deeply, from the etching department next
the stars to the basement next the Devil, who
groaned in sympathy.... G.H.A.: Two crude products.
Joseph J.: Perspective is a decent sort. You
should meet him J.G.: That man has been put
on his feet, before to-day.. . .C.L. : Sort of wit that
induces a wowserish gloom anywhere M.R.8.:
\ou wish us “every success in business” and enclose
some drawings that would help to ruin us. Well, we
thank you for your wish. .. .E.T.: Decline to buy
your portrait of an extracted tooth L.W.: You
may go into mourning for it M.A.: Feeble effort.
“To Po” : “Maud, date of birth, 14/2/’B5;
Blanche, 21/2/’B5” was inscribed on a
pupil’s age-form with some supplementary
remarks on “the twins.” It was in my
callow school-teaching days. I youthfully
expressed “my pain in having to ask for a
correction of this palpable error.” Back
came the reply: “There is no error. Your
present ‘pain.’ young man, is not a circum-
stance to what my wife endured between that
14th and 21st.” I saw a doctor, and after-
wards took a back seat.
FIRESIDE INSPIRATIONS ON A COLD AND
BOISTEROUS NIGHT.
A comfort to man is a humble roof
Ami the glow of a firelight;
When patters the rain, and windows strain,
On a cold and boisterous night.
A tame cat seeks the fire-hob.
For warmth by the ruddy flare,
Too wise to roam from its cosy home,
O’er the roofs in the bleak raw air.
I pity the shunned and wasted dog
Shut out in the freezing street,
Left to die ’neath the wintry sky
Exposed to the drifting sleet.
Offer your thanks to God above,
Rich men with your motor-cars;
1 pity the tramp in the stinging damp—
Ive camped 'neath the blinking stars.
When whistle and rave the angry winds
Oil a cold and boisterous night
’Tis snug to be in from the stormy din
By the glow of the firelight.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Calines-ae-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads ana
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding _ sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO.. Ltd.,
lei.—City 4246. 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
4247,
4810.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, SEPTEMBER 22,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regularly to:
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBU.CCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS'; also to BYRON BAY, GOFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Byron Bay and the beautiful Tweed River.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed HeadsI—steamer 1 —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TOUR FARES.—Sydney-Brisbane, via
Byron Bay: Ist, £B/3/-; 2nd, £5/13/6. Sydney-
Brisbane, via Grafton: Ist, £B/3/-; 2nd, £5/10/-.
For particulars apply :
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
THK
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 796,656 10 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
lion. G. W. Gray, M.14.C.: James Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerloa. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up . . . . . . . . £1,200,000
Resetve Fund .. .. .. .. £200,000
Directors: HERBERT R. LYSAGIIT, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager.: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 157 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £629,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,600,000)
Paid-up .. . . . . 1,496,666
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,646,520
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
CRANTS DRAFTS
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping, etc.
Canadiaft-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST. AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, October 14.
R.M.S. TAHITI, November 11.
And every 28 days thereafter.
The most beautiful Scenery in the AVorUl —the Canadian Koekies —is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Palls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
Tile Great Cities of the United Stateß can be seen on the journey acrrfss America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona. Yellowstone Park. Niagara Falls, etc.
R.M.S. MARAMA, from Wellington, October- 5..
R.M.S. TOFUA, from Wellington, November 2.
Connecting Steamers from Sydney Sept. 30, Oct. 28.
For Illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
fgdsf
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
White Star Line
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Australia to London and Liverpool via
South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCEES 11.250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
MIUTIADES 8,000 tons
MARATHON 8,000 tons
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full of Fares, Rates of -Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, l>td., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
WA EES.
dfg
Established 1817.
Directors:
- £4,765,700
- 3,275,000
- 4,765,700
£12,806,400
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., .President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Bucldand. Esq.
Chiles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
' Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq'. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
351 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
■ HEAD OFFICE
dfg
Janfe° f ltetralta
cvnwvv ■
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2802 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at P&pua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor July Ist, IS2O Governor
Shipping.
ssi
Osaka ShosenKaisha
(O.S.K. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service Manila,
Hong Kong, Japan and the East. Tran-
shipment cargo accepted for all Eastern
ports. Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhipping at Japan.
BUSHU MARU, 22nd Sept.
KOSOKU MARU, early October.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
of Australia,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
40 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: City 4166, Six Lines.
1 And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide.
INTERSTATE STEAMSHIP SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting).
run jjiuouiii'i
PORT ALMA, MACICAY, BOWEN JETTY, TOWNS-
VILLE JETTY and CAIRNS (transhipping at
.Brisbane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Glad-
* Tranships at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
(Carries Ist, 2nd and 3rd-class passengers.
{Carries Ist and 2nd-class passengers.
§Carries Ist and 3rd-elass passengers.
Huddart ParkerX
• . Magnificent
***" Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEJV ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COM "ANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, apply
BURNS, PIIILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
t Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address:
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for: •
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker- Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine),) at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug: and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importina
bookseller.
Rudyard Kipling’s
New Book,
Letters, of Travel
(1892-1913).
Uniform Edition. 7s. Gd. net. Pocket
Edition. Limp Leather. 7s. Gd. net.
Blue Cloth. 6s. net. Dominions Edi-
tion. 6s. net.
Life of Lord Kitchener.
By Sir GEORGE ARTHUR, Bt.,
M. 8.0. 3 Vols. With Portraits and
Plans. £2 12s. Gd. net.
Life of William Booth,
the Founder of the
Salvation Army.
By HAROLD BEGBIE. With Three
Photogravures and numerous other
Portraits and Illustrations. 2 Vols.
£2 2s. net.
TWENTY-FOURTH THOUSAND.
The Economic Conse-
quences of the Peace..
By JOHN MAYNARD KEYNES,
C.B. Bs. Gd. net.
ROUND TABLE PUBLICATIONS.
The Round Table
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of
the British Commonwealth.
Price ss. per copy, or 20s. per annum,
post free to any address within the
Empire.
Leading Contents for June:—
AUSTRALIA: Sir Edmund Barton —The Federal
Elections—Expulsion of Mr. Higgs—Marine
Engineers’ Strike—New South Wales Elec-
tions —Commercial Position and Outlook.
THE LAST OF THE PEACE TREATIES.
AMERICA AND THE TREATY.
THE CASE OF FRANCE.
THE GERMAN SITUATION.
PROBLEMS OF EUROPE.
The Problem of the Commonwealth.
L. CURTIS. The after-war relations
between Great Britain and the
Dominions. Sewed, 2s. 6d.: cloth,
4s.
The Commonwealth of Nations. The
historical basis of the foregoing. Gs.
What Religion Is. By
BOSANQUET, D.C.L.,
6d. net.
BERNARD
LL.D., 3s.
Cytology. With special reference to
the Metazoan Nucleus. By W. E.
AGAR, Professor of Zoology in the
University of Melbourne. Illustrated.
Svo. 12s. net.
Nature : — “The book is well illustrated and
excellently produced. While it can scarcely
appeal to a wide circle of readers it will be
of gi eat service to all who wish to be informed
concerning the results arising out of the work
of the last twenty years on this subject. The
cytolbgist will find it indispensable for refer-
ence. and biologists generally will turn to it
for the more recent work relating to these
problems.”
The Nursery-Manual. A Complete
Guide to the Multiplication, of Plants
(Being the 22nd Edition of the
Nursery Book.) P,y L. H. BAILEY.
Fully Illustrated.' 13s. net.
[The Rural Manuals.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN SCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
df
iSHOHS
A39BV/
Present conditions have not changed
Abbey quality. You are assured the same
high standard as hitherto.
Abbey Shoes can be relied upon to give
full satisfaction—and they cost very little
more than the ordinary kind.
We illustrate a choice Tan Willow Calf
Bal.
PRICE 40/- and 55/-
Patent Bals., Dull Calf Legs,
55/-
Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street, Sydney,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street.
222 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Opposite Palace Theatre.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BellS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
gdf
Our Auditors’
Report.
g
Our annual report dis-
closes the remarkable
fact that during the last
six years the percentage
of profits on sales
Ruby and Diamond
Ring, set in pure
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold, £B/8/-
HAS NOT VARIED 4 PER CENT.
We have always strongly objected to profit-
eering, and so all through the war years we
never increased our profits, notwithstanding
that salaries, wages, taxes and all expenses
increased greatly. .
Our customers evidently appreciated this
fact, and hence the great increase of 50 per
cent, in our sales last year.
Obviously a business buying only for cash,
buying and manufacturing in large quantities
and with our 80 years’ experience, must give
special values, if it is content with a small
profit.
We are proud that this is our record.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
cash onfy. res ' 23 825 Hunter St., Sydney.
The Story of
the Twenty-first
(21st Battalion, A.1.F.),
By Captain A. R. MACNEIL, M.C.
The Story of the 21st Battalion is the
Story of the A.I.F. Though of para-
mount interest to old members of the
Cth Brigade, it will appeal to everyone
connected or concerned with the
A.I.F.
It is an official war history, containing
nine specially .drawn maps, n i
and is reasonably priced at ■“/
Write to-day for a copy (post free)
from
21st BATTALION ASSOCIATION
391 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Or from
HUTCHINSONS PTY. LTD.
3 °5 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will Quote you price for it.
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
dfg
“A marvel at the price.”
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre, 18in.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2Alb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
26/“
fd
“Simple and extra strong in construction."
810. Winchester Single-shot Rille, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim lire'cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over till. 37iin.; bead front sight, with patent alloved tin
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b. ..
(Postage—N.S.W., 2/-; other States, 3/8.)
60/-
■i
BIM. The Celebrated “Maine” Rifle, designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim lire
It can he taken apart easily and quickly,, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt, tvpe, and is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate.
Weight about 31b. Fitted with plain V-back sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
33/
g
Remarkably accurate and hard hitting.
Plenty of range and power.
825. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham-
merless Rifle, 22, 303 or 30/30 calibres, 6
shot, 20in. round tapered barrel, take down, weight 6Jlb., muzzle velocity,
2800 ft. seconds, may be used up to 350 yards without changing from
point blank adjustments of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patched bjiUte/ts (70
grains) are used, giving a striking energy of 1206 ft. pounds; carriage
paid
£l3/5/-
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
WWWftfK!
• wuwmmmm
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy.”
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges.; weight, about 53-lb. ..
Freight paid,
£6/17/6
wp
New Savage N.R.A. Rifle Model 1919 is a carefully-
designed instrument of precision. It has full military
stock, oil finish, pistol grip, with bands ,and swivel for
sling; Marine Corps type front sight, wind gauge, aperture rear sight, fiv'-shot detach-
able magazine. “Barrel is 25 inches long. Chambered for .22 long rifle cartridges only.
Double-firing pin, short hammer throw. Designed primarily for target
work. Weight about 7Jlb. Freight paid
£7llO/-
fg
df
g
“A suitable iveapon for the boy.”
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.,
round barrel. 20in., chambered for' long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
40/-
dfg
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
838. Remington Automatic Hammer less
Rifle, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-dorr n action, length of barrel 22
Inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. 'Weight silb.
Freight paid,
£9/10/-
MYRROHL
Made in
America.
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth ; hardens the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
the breath, .and is specially recommended for pyorrhoea.
Price 1/9 tube (postage 2%d. extra). Small sample, 1 y 2 d., post free.
df
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32,-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Barrel Freight paid,
With Octagon Barrel ' Freight paid,
£B/1 51-
£9
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
'25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines, 20in.
round barrel, weight about sflb Freight paid.
£7/17/6
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List Post Free to any address.
1C
Headquarters: .HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St, BRISBANE.


REXONA
the Ever-ready Friend
King of Ontments.
Mrs. STARKEY and child (from a photo).
I am writing with
pleasure to tell you that I
have used your Rexona
Ointment for my baby
boy. The skin was all
scaly and dry on his face,
and eventually started to
crack. I was advised
to use some special soap,
but it did no good.
Afterwards I tried your
Ointment, which has
cured it entirely. His
skin is lovely again now,
and free from blemishes.
As he is so fair, anything
like that is so noticeable.
You will be pleased to
know that I have recom-
mended Rexona to most
of my friends, as I think
an ointment like that is a
necessity in a house where
there are children.
I am,
Yours thankfully,
(Mrs.) (Sgd.)
WINIFRED STARKEY.
“Birkwood,”
Godwin Street, Bexley.
REXONA for Skin Troubles.
We all suffer more or less from some skin trouble such as rash, pimples, stings
of insects cuts, burns, ulcers, or perhaps even eczema. These skin eruptions are all
very unpleasant and make us feel, irritable and uncomfortable blit this
unnecessary. All that is needed to take away the itching and irritation, and make
the skin clear and healthy once again, is to apply Rexona that cooiing
antiseptic, rapid-healing ointment. Try Rexona for yourself,
and prove its benefits. Sold in triangular pots, only price
1/6; or larger size, holding nearly four times the quantity,
\ price 3/-
g
THE RAPID HEALER
- 'i
55° 0 Saved
in Wages.
One large manufacturing con-
cern effected the economy in
that they were able to reduce
numbers of operators from
200 to 90 after installing the
“Airostyle”
Paint Spraying
Unit
This modern system eliminates the waste in time and
money which painting by brush involves used for
Paint, Enamel, Japan and Varnish.
Gives a fine, permanent finish, and can be operated
by any man instantly.
The Airostyle is employed by the Admiralty, War
Office, Royal Flying Corps, etc., B.S.A. Co., Fletcher
Russell Co., J. Lucas, Ltd., and others, and is m con-
stant use by large manufacturers everywhere.
The Airostyle represents the highest attainment in
construction —danger of clogging is eliminated, and
air compressor guarantees better quality of air.
Get Particulars and Prices.
British-Australian Engineering
Go. Ltd.,
National Mutual Buildings,
Cr. Queen and Collins Streets, Melbourne.
Box 1303 G.P.0., Melbourne.
Telephone: 4031 Central.
N.S.W. Agents—Austral Engineering Supply Co., Kent Street,
S.A^Agents— Parsons & Kobertson, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Night and Morning.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I.—the Sheep-stealer.
WALLED by the silver-dusted night
The hiU sat hunched, a troglodyte
Giant and Grim, whose frown was
bent .
Where laughs of summer lightning went.
Though the secret mirth
Of the wrinkled earth a
Leaps lightly now and then,
There is* rarer glee
When the night skies see
The queer night ways of men.
The blackness held no moving thing,
Nor lightest sound of whispering.
No color showed except the far
Gleam of a homestead’s window-star
It paled at last, winked once and died,
Drowned in the eerie, lightless tide.
Suddenly, in the clotted dark,
Awoke an impish, moving spark.
It swayed and halted, swerved and tacked,
A quick red sprite by mischief racked,
But climbing all the time with zest
Until it reached the hooded crest,
Where two white rocks stared in surprise.
They were by day the hills’ two eyes,
Forbidding, cold, insatiate.
The valley feared their stony hate
That made the height a shape of dread
Some vast Jurassic monster’s head.
And waveringly beneath those eyes
Went talk of crops and market lies.
The red spark fluttered to one rock,
While rang an impudent, soft knock;
Then the man stooped, refilled liis pipe,
Scored a thin phosphorescent stripe
With a sly match, and cupped the flame
In clever hands, as in a frame
There showed a lean and merry face
Whose wrinkles wore an outlaw grace.
“Laddie,” lie whispered to the ground,
And with swift feet that made no sound
A legged and jointed thing loped past;
It seemed a flake the night had cast
That snapped into the further dark,
Stifling a low, exultant bark.
Soon near the man began to creep
The misty forms of huddled sheep,
Like rounded drifts of silent snow;
And though they shuddered to and fro
Crazed by that unseen grim pursuit,
Their idiot faces all were mute.
One more swift flame, a stealthy rush,
Brought back the hill’s accustomed hush ;
Like unreal shapes, half seen in sleep,
Faded the man and dog and sheep.
And, lo ! A thousand tiny sighs
Found comfort in the echoing skies.
For earth-things feel the heavy sense
Of unimagined insolence,
When their loved night must bear the ways
Of covetous man’s unlovely days.
II. — The Singer.
Though the secret mirth
Of the wrinkled earth
Leaps slyly now and then,
There is laughter clear
When the day-stars hear
The singing ways of men.
Slow wings of giant birds of white,
The gliding planes of morning light
Drove up the valley, mile on mile,
Till, like a ghostly silver pile,
"*The hilltop glowed against the sky
Of pearl and misted lazuli.
This is the hour of quietness.
It softly cancels all the stress
Of riot-life in leaf and limb ;
The fire of blossom-flame is dim
And no beast stirs; even the grass
Is motionless as graven glass.
This is the lustral hour—a pool
Of moments stilled by magic rule;
For the lockgates of faery, met
To dam the day-tide’s restless fret,
Have given to this tranquil space
A cooling charm of healing grace.
This is the hour of mystery.
The spinning world seems dreamingly
To swim in pale enchantment, when
From day-time’s drone of busy men,
To secret night’s scarce-whispered calls,
This strange white bridge of silence falls.
Steeped in the wonder of it all,
The singer passed the shadow wall,
And face towards the spreading light,
Steadily climbed the silver height,
There two white rocks stared in surprise;
They were by day the hill’s two eyes,
Insatiate, forbidding, cold;
But now they seemed to smile, cajoled
As a light finger of the sun
Melted their gloom in soft sly fun.
The singer rested by one rock,
And then there rang a tiny knock,
As lazily he cleared a splash
Of random grey tobacco ash.
Turning to watch the far. far gold
That on the moving waters rolled,
He saw, in distant, jewelled spray,
The sea-birth of the singing day;
And ringing to his lips, a wave
Of rapture made this little stave.
When lights of Port o’ Morning gleam
And high clouds laugh to colored foam,
My rose-lit caravels of dream
Sail down the sunways safely home.
IMAORILAND.
O. N. GILLESPIE.
The Dispersal of a Poet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
KEGINALD TOORAK, author of that
little masterpiece, “Tulip Dreams,”
has passed away, and various critics,
anthologists, literary plumbers and so, forth
have mourned for him in different journals
at space rates. Many papers have been
read to literature societies on “Reginald
Toorak, Dreamer and Mystic.” The readers
—generally maiden ladies of over 40 —have
quoted copiously from his “works,” repre-
sented by two or three thin little booklets
with thin little names and a lot of margin.
They have “interpreted” him to their small
but very select audiences, and lamented that
the works of Toorak have not been collected
so as to allow posterity a fair chance of
absorbing his “message.” Then, after a vote
of thanks has been passed, the gentle inter-
preters have folded up their precious books
and re-told privately to some newchum the
romantic story of Toorak’s death and dis-
tribution. ,
None of the ladies who read and interpret
Toorak’s rhymes ever met “the gifted singer.”
The worshippers lament the fact—unneces-
sarily, I think. Toorak was a fine writer in
spasms; but he was too conceited to be any-
body’s friend for long. A tall, gaunt, silent
man, he stalked about in the late ’nineties
writing a bit of good verse about once a
month and sneering at Australia and every-
body in it because he couldn’t make a hand-
some living out of poetry. The world owes
the writer and the artist a great deal; but
in its low commercial way it refuses to
admit that 20 lines or so of rapture per
month should be equal to four weeks’ board
and lodging with extras. Toorak scorned
to work and make poetry his hobby, though
influential admirers could have secured him
a good sleeping berth in any of the Govern-
ment departments. Even a kindly hint from
a literary Premier was ignored with a sneer.
Nobody could help or handle Toorak; he
would accept nothing but praise and flattery
and give in return nothing but scorn. Natu-
rally he became a lonely, disappointed man.
And his chief anxiety seemed to be about
his ultimate place in English literature. To
his only close friend —a much older man
who refused to see the grossest insults-die
once confided that he would like his spirit
to come back and see exactly what people
thought of him and his “works.” The story
eventually leaked as far as Barnley, Toorak s
most tolerant and appreciative editor. ‘ What
an uncanny brute he is!” tersely commented
Barnley, and went on getting out his paper.
Then one day the news struck us that
Reginald Toorak, the poet, was dead. He
had been found in the morning, a candle gut-
tering beside his bed, a pen in his hand and
a new sonnet on his chest. The kindly ver-
dict of the city was “Hard luck !” But some
couldn’t resist adding, “So like him, wasn t
it?” Then began the writing-up of Toorak
—paragranhs, critical estimates, personal
sketches, forecasts, laments, pro-
phecies, all more or less laudatory and all
gemmed with quotations. Only the rabid
little sporting prints omitted to come out
with the sonorous lines: —
Now bear me to the scarlet West, and there,
While trembling harps speed Death upon the air—
and so on for another three pompous pages.
Toorak in his writings always ashed to be
carried somewhere in a litter, or on a bier,
tyhile trumpets sounded. Generally the trum-
pets had to sound thrice.
“How poor old Reg would have en-
enjoyed this!” murmured Barnley, who had
devoted three-quarters of his own literary
page to a well-written send-off, with a por-
trait of Toorak in his most poetical pose.
But Toorak was enjoying it! Alone in the
little house where he was supposed to be
lying dead, he sat surrounded by papers
brought to him by his Chinese man-servant.
With the connivance of a drunken doctor
and an undertaker who has long since been
disrated and had liis funeral belltopper can-
celled, he Was tasting the joys of
after-death publicity. And he sat up late
with scissors and gum-pot, feverishly scrap-
booking his obituary notices and laughing
unpleasantly as he repeated aloud the most
generous spasms of praise. Even the Chinese
servant was a little afraid of him and burnt
an extra joss-stick as a sort of spiritual
insurance premium.
Toorak had directed in his will and con-
fided to various literary acquaintances that
there was to be no .conventional funeral
when he died —“no giving to the earth,” as
he had phrased it. His body would be cre-
mated privately, and his ashes put up in
small souvenir urns. Twenty of these were
to be split up amongst various public
libraries and literary societies. The lucky in-
stitutions were all carefully listed, and two
that he didn’t like or had had some quarrel
with were studiously omitted. The remain-
ing 20 urns were to be distributed at sunset
amongst admirers of his works on the hill-
top where the first verse of “Tulip Dreams”
had been written 10 years before. The un-
scrupulous undertaker had a couple of hos-
pital contracts, and a nephew was fireman
in a gasworks; consequently a good supply
of ashes was assured.
The first hitch in the plot took place the
night before the funeral-distribution, when
the disreputable doctor and the undertaker
crept in the back way to see Toorak about
their fees. They found him, tape-measure
in hand, figuring out how much the press
owed him for verse. “Fourteen pounds-ten !”
he shouted —“that’s what they owe me for
quotations! The Groan never bought a
bob’s worth of poetry from me when I was
alive; now it’s got a good four quids’ worth.
I’ll go in and see them about it in the
morning.”
The undertaker slammed and locked the
door, and the doctor shut the window and
pulled down the blind. Then the argument
started. The two desperate men pointed out
to the poet that he had passed away and
was just a beautiful memory. It was no«-
his privilege to be robbed. The tape-mea-
sure snaked across the room. a>d the cutting-
book fell on the floor as Toorak clamored
for just one visit to the thieving Groan.
The undertaker threatened to make a real
corpse of him if he attempted anything of
the kind, and the doctor promised the ’taker
a certificate of death from natural causes if he
was forced to desperate measures. That fright-
ened Toorak, and he begged to be allowed
to ring up the editor of the Groan and
threaten him in a disguised voice. That
was vetoed at once by the conspirators, and
the undertaker took from his bag the full
black beard he had bought cheap from the
State hangman (retired)- He also dragged
forth an old suit of clothes and a hat with
an immense brim. In this disguise Toorak
was to sit in a mourning-coach at the dis-
tribution of ashes and see who applied for
souvenir urns. It was 3 o’clock of a
cold morning before the doctor and under-
taker bound him over to keep the peace
and escaped by the back door. Once safely
(Continued on next page.)


df
Mr. DUFF, who derived wonderful
benefits from Zam-Buk.
■ 1
THOSE ITCHING CHILBLAINS.
Mrs. Annie McQuade, Bridge Street, Valley,
Brisbane, writes: —“During the winter months I
used to suffer very badly from chilblains, par-
ticularly on the hands. The skin, being rough
and dry, would crack into deep fissures, causing
pie a great deal of pain and irritation, i found
Zam-'Buk most suitable, as it softens and
nourishes the skin, thus preserving it from
roughness and cracking.”
POISONED LIMB SWELLED TO GREAT SIZE.
Another ZAM-BUK Triumph.
ZAM-BUK has to its credit a wonderful record of successes in the cure of all sorts of poisoned,
ulcerous, suppurating and discharging wounds, and the following case of Mr. A. Duff, residing
at “ Rio,” 50 Lord Street, North Sydney, is typical of Zam-Buk’s perfect way. Speaking on
behalf of her husband, Mrs. Duff says: “Twelve months ago my husband injured his right knee, and, getting
about, some foreign matter got into the wound that set up inflammation. His knee started to swell up to enor-
mous proportions, and the pain was dreadful. A doctor was consulted, who advised the use of the knife to bring
away the discharge, but did not result in doing any good. After a while the gathering burst and the discharge
came away in the form of blood and matter. The pain during this time was dreadful and he could not sleep.
“He was induced to give Zam-Buk a trial to bring about a cure, and after two or three applications he got
wonderful ease. No one knows what he suffered till he used Zam-Buk. A daily improvement was noticeable
after two or three days’ treatment. He could get out of bed again and get round and about. I bathed it
daily and then applied the Balm. After two weeks’ treatment it became well and he resumed his work, the wound
having healed splendidly.
BRUISED, INJURED FOOT ALSO HEALED:
Continuing her remarks in
praise of Zam-Buk, Mrs. Duff
added : “ Being in the plumb-
ing business, my husband recently, also, had the misfortune to let a half-hundredweight of lead
foot, crushing and bruising it shockingly. He had to cut the front of the boot out to get it off.
a considerable time, but Zam-Buk healed it in about a fortnight.
fall on his right
It was bad for
“My own personal experience is that it is splendid for rheumatism, having used it on my foot for the com-
plaint, from which it has taken all the pain.
“We are never without a pot in the house. We are well-known residents of North Sydney, and regard Zam-
Buk as wonderful.”
Ky*JTJIL SOOTHING—HEALING—ANTISEPTIC. > T >"■
Zam-Buk is a unique healing
balm, and records of cures show
that there is nothing to equal it
for piles, eczema, ringworm, bad
legs, poisoned sores, itchy spots,
cracked skin, etc. Judged by
the good it does, there is nothing
cheaper than a pot of Zam-Buk
either at 1/6 or 3/6 per pot; of
all Chemists and Stores.
Guard Against
SUBSTITUTION.
When you ask for Zam-Buk
Healing Balm see that you get
it. Do not be put off with some-
thing which is claimed by your
trader as “just as good” because
it returns him more profit. There
is NOTHING “just as good” as
the reliable; ever-ready
and effective Zam-Buk.
am-
i Km
outside the doctor put it to the undertaker
it would be safer to drug Toorak next
morning a nd prevent him from attending the
ceremony ; but the undertaker sadly insisted
. To ?. rak . wo . uld So quite mad and tear
ou his disguise if they played that trick on
him.
Half an hour before isunset next after-
noon a little knot of literary fossickers
and a few press people, collected on a windv
hilltop, walked a little way to meet the
mourning-carriage that bumped up the half-
niade road. r Phe blinds of the coach were
drawn, and on the box seat, looking very
pale and anxious, sat the undertaker and
doctor. In the 10 years that had passed
since the writing of “Tulip Dreams” the
suburb hud grown enormously, and what
had been an isolated and prettily-wooded
knoll was now “a choice residential site”
with very few trees and one or two ugly
villas sitting on it. The boundary fence
ot the outpost residence almost bisected the
crest of the hill, and the suburbanite who
was encouraging a very young lawn with a
new hose turned off the water and came
over to watch the curious ceremony from
his trout gate.
Of course there were several small boys
present. There are always small boys pre-
sent. The world lives by small boys, so it
has to put up with them. These small boys
were attracted by the upward-straining black
coach, and wriggled into the group to have
a look, lheir presence annoyed the serious
literary worshippers, one or two of whom
made feeble efforts to discourage them. But
it wasn t a funeral in the ordinary sense,
and it was anybody’s street. So the kids
istayed.
As the coach stopped, the undertaker got
down and motioned to the doctor to descend,
.then he took off his battered belltopper and
some of the literary worshippers followed
suit. But when the doctor started handing
out souvenir urns the undertaker had to put
his hat on again. That confused the literary
worshippers and theVe was some whispering.
A little woman suggested that “Mr. Perkins-
weeke might say a few words.” She didn’t
indicate a subject, and Mr. Perkinsweeke
shook his grey head, vigorously.
“Now, Doctor,” said the undertaker, and
the doctor took a typed slip from his pocket
and started to read the list of ash-winners.
Is Mr. Twaddlegate present, please?”
“Here,” answered a gruff voice, and a stout
little man bustled forward and took off his
hat. The winter breeze played carelessly
with his hair as the doctor thrust a small
urn into his hand. “Ashes of the late
Reginald Toorak for the Footleton Shire
Library, mumbled the doctor. Mr. Twaddle-
gate took the urn, glanced at it, showed it to
a friend or two, and slipped it into his
pocket. He completed the burial ceremony
by putting on his hat and blowing his nose.
The doctor took up another urn. “Is the
representative of the Henry Stodge Memorial
Library present?”
“Mr. Perkinsweeke !” shrilled the lady who
had tried to intimidate Mr. Perkinsweeke
into making a speech.
Mr. Perkinsweeke came forward blushing
and got his prize. But he kept his hat on
because he had a cold. He explained this to
several people who seemed to be shocked at
his lack of reverence.
“What is this here show?” asked a sub-
urbanite loudly—so loudly that the under-
taker felt constrained to answer him pub-
licly. “It’s the distribution of the ashes of
the late Reginald Toorak, sir. He died two
days ago.”
The suburbanite grew i‘ed in the face and
started to make oratorical gestures. “Do
you mean to tell me you’re distributin’ ’uman
ashes outside my front gate? If I’d known
about this I would have tdld the police. I’m
goin’ inside to ring up Councillor Boggs.”
As the suburbanite turned to carry out his
threat there was some sort of flurry inside
the mourning-coach. The undertaker rushed
to the head of the sleepy black horses; but
his words of wrath .seemed to be addressed
to whatever was behind the drawn blinds.
The distribution then went forward
quickly, the small boys becoming more ap,d
more curious and intrusive. The literary
worshippers did their best to suppress and
ignore them ; but the small boys were of the
Anzac breed and not easily discouraged. They
even started to ask for souvenir urns in
their own abominable way—half-pleading
and half-threatening. “Gaw on. Mister!
Give’s a pot f’r luck! Don’t be a nark.
Mister!”
“I do wish Mr. Perkinsweeke- would
drive these urchins away !” .sighed the little
literary worshipper. But Perkinsweelce
proved deafer than usual and did nothing
rash. And still the appeals went on : “Gaw
on, Mister! Give!s a nurn. We’ll take
care of it, Mister!”
Tlie doctor and undertaker ignored their
tormentors. Suddenly there was a con-
certed rush of bo.v.s, a sharp scuffle and then
a whirring, birdlike flight.
“That d—d red-headed kid’s got an urn !”
panted the doctor, whose collar and tie had
been disarranged. He was staring helplessly
after the raiders when the door of the mourn-
ing-coach was flung open and a tall, bearded
figure leapt out and pursued the flying bovs
at extraordinary speed, roaring threats all
the way. The small thief saw the avenger
overtaking him, but retained his loot and
sped on. Ilis confidence in his own staying-
powers was justified. The pursuing figure
presently stumbled, came to a dead stop and
stood shaking a clenched fist.
The appearance of the unexpected mourner
startled the literary worshippers and threw
the undertaker and doctor into a panic. “Get
him back!” shouted the doctor, and the
undertaker scrambled on to the box-seat of
his coach, wheeled his horses and trotted to
where the mysterious figure was standing.
The literary worshippers couldn’t hear what
passed, but the undertaker appeared to be
imploring the mysterious one to get in again.
Meanwhile the doctor did his best to, dis-
tract the attention of the audience. “He’s a
distant cousin of the late Mr. Toorak.
Always very proud of his distinguished rela-
tive, but the poor fellow’s been a mental case
for years. We had to bring him to this little
ceremony to-day, otherwise he would have
had a bad breakdown. I trust that if there
are any representatives of the press present
they will make no mention of this unfortu-
nate incident.” (Sympathetic murmurs.)
“I think that will conclude the ceremony,
ladies and gentlemen. Now would you mind
remaining here for a few moments until we
get the unfortunate gentleman away? (More
sympathetic murmurs.) “Thank you, ladies
and gentlemen.” Then he hurried off and
was just in time to help the protesting luna-
tic into the coach. The sad vehicle drove
off and the little group on the hillside slowly
dispersed. Only Mr. Perkinsweeke lingered
around the desecrated birthplace of “Tulip
Dreams,” and he was made to feel sorry for
it later when the suburbanite came out with
Councillor Boggs and attacked him as one of
the principals in the illegal distribution of
human ashes outside his front gate.
The doctor and undertaker got Toorak safely
back to his lonely villa and the Chinese ser-
vant at dusk. There had been a spirited row
in the gloomy interior of the mourning-coach
over Toorak’s reckless dash into the open;
but it couldn't compare with the disturbance
that started when they were all safe under
cover. For the insanely vain poet then
broke it to his confederates that he had de-
cided to go into town next day with his
collection of obituray notices and demand
cash recognition of his genius. And he was
going to set the police at work to recover his
stolen ashes! The pair argued with him
just long enough to make sure that he really
intended to do the resurrection. Then the
doctor whispered to the undertaker: “I came
prepared for this after last night. Get him
away for a few minutes so that I can fix
the wine.” The undertaker managed it and
in five minutes Toorak’s sleeping-draught
was ready. Under the pretext of having a
peace drink and appetiser before dinner, the
doctor got the drugged wine into him and
soon there was 12 stone of limp and silent
poet to dispose of.
“That’ll keep him quiet for 12 hours at
least,” said the doper, grimly regarding his
patient.
“What are you going to do?”
“I got the idea as we were driving down
the hill on the way back. You know that
American schooner lying just off the point?”
“Yes.”
“Well, the officers and crew are so law-
abiding that they can’t stop shooting even in
a British port. There was a nasty scuffle on
board a week ago and the mate put a bullet
through a man’s arm. They are going to sea
at full tide, and this fool will go with them
if we can get him on board —for money, of
course.”
“You’re going to shanghai him !”
“That’s the idea. This scrubby water-front
is just right for the job. I’ll be on the
beach with a skiff at 10. You and Ling Foo
carry him down —and make the Chow bring
some of his own duds with him. We’ll shove
him on board, too. It will make things safer
for us.”
And that’s how Toorak and his Chinese
A.D.C. left Sydney, passing for ever out of
the lives of the two men to whom he had
become a living ghost. One of the little
literary societies which periodically discuss
his “works” is worried by a literary she-
detective who claims to have discovered what
she describes as “a remarkable affinity of
thought” between the late Reginald Toorak
and a distinguished American magazine poet
called Martin Sierra. She bores and worries
the admirers of Toorak by quoting alternates
from the works of Toorak and the works lor
jobs) of Sierra. While her listeners fidget
and whisper about trains, she explains
doggedly in a high, nagging voice that
whereas Toorak wms a dreamer and mystic
Sierra can only rightly be described as a
mystic and dreamer, or, if one may go so fa>-
as a mystic and seer. Nobodv with toe
slightest pretensions to culture agrees with
her and she is gradually losing all her literary
friends. The -ones who have that strong
English prejudice against American litera-
ture, ragtime and jazz dances have been lost
some time.
KODAK.
Out of the Dark.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I SHALL go softly and very far
With my fingers before me
Feeling the fondling dark with never
a star
Whispering o’er me.
I shall touch harsh stone of the wall,
Rough bark of the tree,
And the dew the leaves let fall
Shall sprinkle me.
Ever my feet shall know and understand:
Here is grass and here the withered leaf,
Here are the round stones fainting intosana
And here the cliff mossed black to the edge
of grief.
Only touch and hearing
Shall be my guide—
Tenderly reaching and fearing
On every side.
Slowly between the knees
Of the black hill
I shall come where seven sear
Meet and are still. *
There on dry sand
And on sand suddenly wet
I shall go a-ound the land,
Hearing the waves fret,
Till I come to the scented place
Full of lavender sighs
And lilac speaking grace
As each breath dies,
With a haunting sense between,
Like a weak rhyme,
Of a hill darkly green
With scented thyme.
And I shall find the glow
Of a little lamp
Brooding, yellow and low,
Through the misty damp
Over and under a hollow
Of magic air
As my feet follow
The sweetness unaware.
And there shall I see God sitting,
Old and wrinkled and dear,
Silently knitting and knitting
Curved year into year
In the midst of Her murmurous bees;
And my soul shall fall
Low at the calm of Her knees
And tell Her all.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


In . ■
7 „
/. -
mm
iwM:
*W\
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTIHGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
gueensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
.Z. Offloe—o3-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—9B Queen Street, Melbourne.
.H i k [ H t] ;< yi w i n yi
HOR LICK’S
MALTED MILK
is a pure rich milk combined
with the extract of malted grains
—very digestible and nutritious.
Prepared in a moment. Delicious
to the taste.
Sample will be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps
to Hutchinson & Co., Ltd.,
26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
■a?
SSW
fo
Ho
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
Miliars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wi Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S ■ BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
esi PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at _ home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
WHGLEYS
A-20
Get this
newH
■
3d. per
packet same
as Spearmint
and
Doublemint
Fine for the teeth,
appetite
and digestion
Chemists.
Confectioners
Und storekeepers
Or sand 3<J. to
WRIGLEV'S
Box 2376.
t P. 0.. Sydney.
The flavour Lasts
\
.
'V
5;-;
WNfaßftS W TAKt
UKMMSMfctt
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write '
us ‘and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
The Standard Remedy which has ontlived the Centurfest
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. C U R E S Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton’s’’—refuse all substitutes.
TANKS
When we speak of a tank we picture a huge
cumbersome box of machinery bristling with
guns. Yet Carter’s Little
Liver Pills, one of the
smallest and most success-
ful pill in the world,
can be compared to
tanks in action, for ‘
they surely and
gently touch the
Liver, curing
Bilious Headache,
Constipation, etc.,
just as tanks sur-
mount obstacles and clear trenches of the
enemy. Try them to-day, your chemist has
them. Good for man, woman and child.
gdf
fiTTLE
VER
PILLS
Small Pill—Small Dose-Small Prloa.
GENUINE must
bear signature
g
If any illustration, appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
jßeminpov
and Pistol.
Cartridges
Accurately made and carefully tested in the arms for which
they are designed, these cartridges assure correct function-
ing and maximum accuracy.
Dfrtngon,
tor Shooting Right >
Regardless'of the make or calibre of your favorite revolver
or automatic, your dealer can supply you with a box of
Remington UMC cartridges—thoroughbreds in every
particular.
Catalogues free upon request.
1
C-3
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne


NGROViTE
LEATHER
NEunNti
MAKES FOR BETTER RESULTS,
both by increasing production and lowering
running cost. MANGROVE LEATHER or
RAWHIDE BELTING is flexible, and abso-
lutely reliable, and its super-gripping quali-
ties make it unequalled as a power-trans-
mitter, even for the most difficult drives.
Allovv us to connect your pulleys with Man-
grovite, under the supervision of our own
engineers, and we will guarantee you satis-
faction.
Belting' Ltd.
(Charles liidowici, Managing Director),
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney
W. Australia: Gibbs, Bright &Co., Fremantle
S’th Australia: John Reid &. Sons Ltd., Adelaide
Victoria and Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co.,
Melbourne.
m
IK®
Longer life of dies and greater efficiency than ordinary carbon steels
give, mean greater production and profits to users of
“ AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE ”
Chrome Vanadium Medal Die Steel.
For stamping Gold, Silver, Copper, Brass, Bronze, White Metal, Tin,
Steel or Iron, this practically unshrinkable steel is unequalled.
Immediate delivery can be given in various sizes in round bars.
For prompt attention address inquiries to Desk “A.”
The Eagle. (EX Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent St., Sydney. I Cliff Street, Fremantle.
264 Latrobe St., Melbourne. John Reid and Nephews, Brisbane.
46 Boulder Koad, Kalgoorlie. | Paul and Gray, Ltd., Newcastle.
Charles Atkins and Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Dick’s Balata Belting
for True Economy.
tfflggGEggjZQji
TRADE
MARK
Sole Agents:
JAMESHARDIE & COY. LTD.
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 Lines).
581-3 Little Coilins Street, Melbourne.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Newcastle Agents—Paul & Cray Ltd.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the' times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
toe reason for this, Machiuef installed g 5 years ago arg §till
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial -expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
>
Stocked.
& SINCLAIR LTD., Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
J.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
Walden Worcester Combination Wrench Sets 8 Steel Socket Wrenches are the Garage-man’s Sheet Anchor
4564-2
ll_
2418
1620-2
N°s7Set
Ford Car
MS
5660
m
In taking down or reassembling a ear there are no corners or out-of-the-way places these splendidly-designed tools
cannot get at. They are marketed in two styles of patterns, viz:—
THE COMBINATION WRENCHES WITH DETACHABLE HANDLES and
THE STEEL SOCKET WRENCHES WITH THE FIXED HANDLES.
Both Styles have their advantages, and the latest models are considerably strengthened and more rugged than previous
patterns, thus providing a tool that is practically indestructible. Should any part such as a Universal Joint or
Rachet or Socket become a Casualty or missing a new replacement can always be obtained.
We have pleasure in furnishing the following particulars.
WALDEN WORCESTER COMBINATION WRENCH SETS
with detachable handles. Supplied in
_ T . Handsome, Conveniently-partitioned Cases.
SET .No. 12 Comprising 38 Sizes, 1 Rachet, 3 Extension Bars, 1 Universal Joint, 5 Double-ended Wrenches, 1
Spark Plug Socket, 1 Brace Wrench, 1 T Wrench, 1 Offset, 95 /- set.
SET No. 4— Comprising 8 Sizes, 1 Ratchet, 1 Universal Joint, 1 Extension Bar, 35/- set.
SET No. 6 15 Sizes, 1 Spark Plug Socket, 1 Universal Joint, 1 Ratchet-Wrench, this set fits U.S.S., nuts 4in.
to fin, and S.A.E. 5-16 in. to Jin. Price 50/- set.
Extra Sockets for any of these Sets, 1/8 each.
WALDEN WORCESTER SOCKET WRENCH SETS, WITH FIXED HANDLES.
For FORD, 38/6, complete as shown.
For BUICK, 35/- complete as shown.
For OVERLAND, 18/6, complete.
For DODGE, 18/6, complete.
443
444
RCNCHCS
2432
5660
■*«r This Series are complete in themselves and are practically all the tools necessary to take down any of the ears named.
Special Garage Service Set, comprising 30 pieces, for all American Oars, including Hudson, Studebaker, Overland, Chalmers, etc., Price £7/10/-.
Special Brace Speed Wrenches, to take 7-16 in. to |in„ 10 sizes. Each size attached to its own brace. 55/- per set.
SWANS LIMITED, The House for Motor Engineers* Supplies, 304 Pitt Street, Sydney.
f
.LA. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 234 inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, oanoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £27/10/-
Correspondence invited.
landler
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merohants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
High - Pressure Brasswork
to All Australian Water Board Standards
Also Guaranteed, Factory Tested, Medium Lines.
PUMPS.
Alderdice Limited,
Warrnambool, VICTORIA.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers.
Castlereagh Street,
|S
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
de Brisbane
DELCO-LIGHT
A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
m
-
M
m
a
m
Runs on
Kerosene
Safe.
One Gallon of Kerosene
will light 32 Lamps for 4 l / z hours.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM SOLE AGENTS—
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBURTON, FRANK I LTD.,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
Ik
m
;
• ■■ •*.
M. 40
Laundry Machinery and Supplies.
Australian Products of Highest Quality.
IN the Laundrjy business, as in other sections of industry, it is the character and capacity
of equipment that commends it to the exacting owner or manager. We are now
manufacturing in Australia, and can supply immediately, complete equipments in the latest
English and American designs—machines built to meet the scarcity of labor, machines that
keep the necessary staff down to an absolute minimum. Ask us particulars of
Power Washing Machines, Hydro Extractors, Steam
Mangles, Drying Tumblers, Power Ironers, and all supplies
for the Laundry Trade.
Prices are right. Call and inspect, or write for catalogue*
PARKE ®. LACY CO. LTD.,
60 Clarence St„ Sydney.
Agrents—Melbourne: Robert Bryce & Co. Pt!y., ltd., 482 Collins
Street. Brisbane: Queensland Machinery Co. ltd.. Albert Street.
