

W.
%
gsdh
Y sheer merit, and actual performances, the Chandler
Six has earned a foremost place in the esteem of
motorists. Its overlanding achievements are known
throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand, and its
fame completely overshadows that of any other make of
car. Sydney to Brisbane, Sydney to Melbourne, and Sydney
to Adelaide; Auckland to Wellington, and Picton to Bluff—
these are recent records which admit of no argument. In
hill-climbing and speed tests, too, the Chandler has more
than held its own.
Write for “Overlanding in Australasia,” a brightly-
written and copiously-illustrated booklet, giving full particu-
lars of the foregoing performances. It will be posted free
to your address, and will convince you that the slogan
“Chandlers Keep Faith” has been fully earned.
The Chandler is a car that a lady can drive with the
greatest ease and the maximum of satisfaction.
No handsomer or more acceptable Christmas Present
could be suggested than a Chandler Six.
55
m
ffifißSalpHii
■MM
;U\\\V::UV\\\\U«\yi
HUSlaiiss
all
Bfi«
mu
w
■is
7/
r s'
-
/
#
r 7
£8 45
MARCUS CIARK & C b>
GARAGE & SHOWROOMS,
ST'\l47*sl CASTLEREAGH *
SYDNEY
NEWCASTLE AND DISTRICT: Messrs. Young & Green, 318 Hunter St West, Newcastle.
BATHURST AND DISTRICT: Mr. Walter Bailey, Havannah Street, Bathurst.
COOMA AND DISTRICT: Balm&in Bros., Ltd.. Cooma.
LITHGOW AND DISTRICT: Mr. .John A. S. Jones, Zig Zag Brewery, Lithgow. -•
FOR THE CONVENIENCE OF COUNTRY RESIDENTS WE HAVE
APPOINTED THE FOLLOWING PROVINCIAL AGENCIES —
ILLAWABBA: Bull! Pass Garage, Ltd., Wollongong.
GAN MAIN: Mr. B. W. Ezzy, Ganmain Garage, Ganmain.
WOODBURN SHIRE: Dickson Bros.. Coraki.
MOREE AND DISTRICT: Adams, Woolford & Co., Balo Street, Moree.
mi iwii—— inn m-iin——mu m m
The Bulletin
YoL 41.—N0. 2123.
Thursday, October 21, 1920.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1920 is now ready, add will be posted
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD., 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431. —Advt.
THE
•t
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
With which is amalgamated the Colonial Bar 1 ; of Australasia Limited.
(•IEAD OFFICE: Collins Street. Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
tUorisecl Capital .. £5,000,000 Directors; —SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
Capital paid up. ..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
£2,000,000
1,200,000
£3,200,000
828,000
£4,028,000
EDWARD TRENCIIARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman.
J.' NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Hon. F. 0. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.
Chief-Manager: E. 11. WREFORD.
Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Svdnev Office 60 Pitt St. Manager; R. S. GREGSON. Acting Sub-Manager; A. W. HEWETT.
George St. City Office, 350 George St. Manager: j. a. G. HADLEY.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales.
LOWPON OFFICE; 7 Lothbury, E.C. 2.
Swan Self-Filler
NOW ON SALE!
Fills with a Flip of the Finger
Price - 20/
(Without Clip)
Y
✓
it
YS/'
V/'
USE
awur
SWAN INK
USE
wax
SWAN
INK
SPECIAL FEATURES:
Ladder Feed, Swan Nib,
Safety Chamber Cap,
Certain Lever Action *^3l
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
Made by MABIE, TODD & CO.
London, New York, Paris, Sydney, Toronto
lilliimw
ritish
Tit® A 3.
x
rp
LIGHT CAR
The Car for the Owner-Driver,
Every part of the STANDARD EIGHT CAR is built
not only to perform its own particular function well.,
but to harmonise perfectly with every OTHER part
of the car.
Send your inquiry for early delivery to Agent:
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
STANDARD MOTOR CO. LTD.,
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
gsd
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats and
the Prevention of Consumption,
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
ss
C. The Br
Tubes of a Dissec-
ted Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
ef the Lungs.
CAUTION. —The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name ot
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure and get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson's Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imit;*-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers. Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
19
The Red Page
Plagiarism
Give this word its due. About a third
of the world’s finest poetry ig either con-
scious or subconscious plagiarism. “Sub-
conscious plagiarism' is a contradiction in
terms, you may think. But sooner or later
the poet is bound to recognise the source
fiom which he derived his too-familiar echo,
and if he own any sense of sportsmanship
his revised edition will reveal play of scis-
sors, shears or axe, as the case may need.
Of the two orders into which I am split-
ting this first infirmity of literary minds,
conscious (or burglarious) plagiarism is, in
the nature of things, the more rarely met
with. \ou may lift your neighbor’s spoons
with impunity he will never recognise
them on your table—but you daren’t hope to
steal even one of his sentences without being
detected and promptly arraigned. And
should the owner of the sentence be a dead
man the risk is usually tenfold. Only a
month or two ago literary London was grin-
mngly enjoying the discomfiture of the poet
feturge Moore, a correspondent in one of
the journals having drawn attention to cer-
tain lines in a poem by Moore in which a
passage from “Salammbo” is reproduced
practically verbatim. Moore had lacked the
grace to acknowledge his debt: to Flau-
bert, and in gratuitously assuming that
such acknowledgment was unnecessary
he seems to have over-rated the culture of
liis readers. The performance rivalled in
high-handedness Disraeli's interpolation of
the description of a race, purloined whole-
sale from the columns of a sporting paper
and introduced into “Sybil.” Dizzy’s repu-
tation as a writer of rare versatility rested
as much upon that stolen slab of journalese
as upon anything—until, a few years ago,
some omnivorous ghoul came to light with
hi;; damning evidence.
But show me the poet who is never deri-
vative. Who is he? Dig deep enough and
you’ll come upon somebody clse’s gold—-
even in Milton, one of whose famous lines,
“Better to reign in Hell than serve in
Heaven-,” was deliberately lifted from “Luci-
fer,” a mystery play by Vondel. the classical
Dutch dramatist of the 17th century. And
wasn’t the old song. “My Mother Bids Me
Bind My Hair,” perhaps “running” in Mere-
dith’s head when he wrote that haunting-
stanza in “Love in the Valley,” which begins:
When her mother tends her before the laughing
mirror,
Tying up her laces, looping up her hair. . . .
And isn’t the Meredith echo re-echoed here
by Walter De la Mare, if with liis own
charming accent? —
Mv mother sate me at her glass ;
This necklet oi bright flowers she wove ;
Criss-cross her gentle hands did pass
And wove in my hair her love.
But it is not merely a question of words, as
such. One poet may echo another almost
to the limit of parody, yet take nothing from
bis model but a mere correlative gesture,
intonation, trick of. rhythm or even of
punctuation. See how the Browningites and
Meredithians favor foreshortened and par-
ticle-less phrases, for instance. Or compare
"these lines from Kendall's “Campaspe” with
any one of a score of things by Swinburne,
who had published four volumes, remember,
at the time this was written :
... .Campaspe we call her by name—
She is fairer than flowers of the field —she is brighter
than brightness of flame, * '
As a song that strikes swift to the heart with the
beat oi the blood of the South,
Ami a light and a leap and a smart ifi the play
of her perilous mouth.
“Just to show Mr. Swinburne that he’s not
the only pebble on the beach,” we may
imagine the hapless drudge muttering, as
he penned those flying a impests. In this
way Francis Thompson’s poetry is often a
sort of sublimated Orashaw, as the critics
are so fond of reminding us. And Milton
goes to Theocritus for his elegiac note, and
Shelley goes to Milton, and Matthew Arnold
to all three. And so Byron, who almost
worshipped Pope, shares with him. now (and
with Tom Moore, who mimicked liis lord-
ship) an equality of oblivion. Keats, of
course, teems with echoes, many of them no
doubt deliberate and unashamed, many of
them again the mere intrusions of a poet’s
half-remembered reading. Here, for example,
is a couplet by Marlowe: —
Mermaid-like unto the floor she slid;
One half appeared, the other half was hid.
You remember Keats :
Her rich attire creeps rustling to her knees:
Half-hidden, like a mermaid in sea-weed,
Pensive awhile she dreams. . ..
Will anyone maintain that Keats, who spent
day and night with the Elizabethans, was
not deliberately emulating—not to say excel-
ling—Kit Marlowe in this celebrated,., pas-
sage?
All of which goes to prove that talk about
originality is simply one of the lesser sorts
of cant. How may a man be “original”?
It takes a Csesar to say : ' i Veni, vidi, vici.”
But though this may strike some of us as
one of the most magnificent things ever
uttered, how are we at this time of day to
know that it was not “originally” an. im-
proved version of somebody else’s plagiarism ?
Shakspearo declared in one of his sonnets
that “The summer flower is to |he summer
sweet, though to itself it only live and die.”
A century later Gray, who was then slowly
chiselling out his Elegy, came across a line
by Edward Young which seems to have taken
his fancy—“ And waste their music on the
savage race.” Adapting the idea from Shak-
speare and the mode of its expression from
Young. Gray proceeded to adorn his marble
slab of an elegy with the verse about flowers
being born to blush .unseen and waste, their
sweetness on the desert air. Yml though
Shakspeare was himself the fondest filcher
of them all. vet when we consider what lus-
trous gems liis alchemical imagination made
of the chalk-and-paste that he scooped from
his “authors,” his offence becomes a thing
positively to he commended in itself . Lius
is to borrow a shilling and paj back a
pound. Plagiarism is justifiable on such
grounds. But on no other.
ADRIAN LAWLOR.
Hilaire Belloc
Alfred G. Gardiner, who for his sins edits
the London Daily News, gives Hilaire Bel-
loc’s opinion of the Liberal party of 1900
(who passed Belloc by when office-doles
were being paid) as follows:—-
But to be ignored, to be passed by for the Aclands
and the Maenaniaras and the Seelys—that was un-
forgivable. It revealed the sham of Liberalism, it
disclosed the corruption of the party system, it made
it clear that England was governed by a nest of
rogues, chiefly Jews —-probably all of them Jews, or
if not Jews or the friends of Jews, then Puritans.
And if there is anything more unspeakable than a
Jew, it is a Puritan. For to the abominable fact
that he has doubts about the infallibility of the
Pope, the Puritan adds an infamy that puts him
outside the pale of humanity, lie does not drink
beer....ln the medievalism that binds them [Belloc
and Chesterton] together there is a difference. To
Mr. Chestertcn the Middle Ages were an Arcadian
realm of joyous life. To Mr. Belloc they were
something more; they -were a realm in which the
Church was supreme. It is here that we touch the
mainspring of his career. He is out to win England
back to Rome. .
But it isn’t fair. I suppose the editor of
a daily is more critically receptive of events
and their trend than of literature; litera-
ture takes more extended thinking than he,
going to press every night, can give it.
Hence to Gardiner Belloc is, first, a politi-
cal figure, and, secondly, a sociological influ-
ence. That being established, we polish
the article up for the morrow’s issue, and
let it go; there is that much more important
housing-scheme in Seven Dials to he tackled-
before midnight.
Primarily, Belloc is a literary artist. As
with most vigorous personalities, certain fads
have attacked his spare time —passing things,
as Liberalism in power, and the virtues of
beer as a modus rieendi. These he talks
about in a loud and domineering voice,
making heaps of enemies and unfair critics,
and enjoying himself very much. It is an
amusement m which a good many men have
indulged. Ezekiel and Byron, for instances,
without harm to their ultimate value. Belloc
is inaccurate, flippant to the point of inso-
lence on occasion. He is the loudest talker
in England at the moment (and that is say-
ing something)—a talker of incredible bom-
bast and assurance —but at the base of this
he is th* inventor of a form of English
literary expression which at its best is very
.good. ' And that is much more important
than his designs on the religion of England
or even than his infatuation for beer. In
his youth he served in the French Artillery
as a conscript; so in the years of the war
he prophesied in Land and Water— about
20,000 words per issue—all the movements
of the armies. The armies refused to follow
his directions with an engaging simplicity
of persistence which couldn’t escape even
Bellows omniscient: assurance. So he wrote
ir par—about 250 words —at the head of
each later instalment explaining that both
armies were fools and probably criminals,
and went serenely on with his diagrams and
interminable prophecies. Judging from the
solemnity with which London continued to
read them. Belloc was the only man who
saw the joke.
At Oxford he .sailed into the drear vaults
of the history dons, told them casually that
Froude was an idiot, and explained European
history to them vyith a wealth. of detailed
evidence which amounted almost to personal
experience, throwing Oxford thereby into a
shattered silence. He sailed into English
politics in the same kindly, condescending
manner, had that little difference of opinion
of which Gardiner writes, and left, as he
said valedictorily, “perhaps because the
bribes were not large enough; but probably
because he was getting sick of the vilest
and dirtiest society in which he had 'ever
mixed in his life.” Which is a forceful
farewell uumarred by any weakening snob-
bery of good manners.
One story of the unimportant Belloc is
worth while, perhaps. He wrote a book called
“Warfare in England,” and a reviewer
said Ain effect, that he didn’t know liis sub-
ject well enough. Belloc jumped in, and,
taking his questioned 1205 campaign of
Evesham for text, cited in his reply his long
and learned list of authorities, the first of
whom was Matthew Paris. The letter was-
printed with a footnote by the reviewer.
The footnote read : “Mr. Belloc tells us that
lie has perused Matthew Paris on the cam-
paign of Evesham in v 1265. Now Matthew
Paris’s “Chronicle” ends with the year 1259.
and he died in that year. Mr. Belloc cites
as his primary authority a narrative which
does not exist, and which he cannot there-
fore have read.”
I know. But he writes nonsense verses
for children which cut 30 years off my life.
His “Bad Child’s Book of Beasts” converts
the reader instantly into the inconsequent
infant-poet of long ago. happy in the magni-
ficent foolishnesses filling the magnificent
day. To catch a man back to the very
spirit of the first days, with the tears as
near as the laughter, is great literary
achievement. Again. “The Modern Travel-
ler,” “The Old Road” and “Hills and the
Sea” all stride out on a fine white road to
the edge of the world. The books are full
of a deep sincerity, rich in a large joy of
light and sky and air. Even Borrow and
Jefferies do not get the cordiality, the
heartiness which Belloc piles up in a giant
munificence of vitality; he is sharper and
stronger than the older men. more primal—
pearer, so to .speak, to the grass that is not
yet green, the dawn not yet on the hills.
There are essays good and bright, verse
which is sometimes splendid and sometimes
poor, and many fugitive, delicate things in
the many books (together with many dull
and dreary things in the pretentious larger
canvases), but his country is the road. His
companion is any man. any other tramp
who. listening, jvill understand. His sub-
jects. his passing conversations, are .Tews or
Puritans, religions, silly politics, beer or
European history. To the sound of all this
nfattle. the white road goes steadily under
his feet, the white, unending road which
alone is important in his heart.
FRANCIS BRIEN.
(Continued on page 24.)


r a
SUMMER FASHIONS at Anthony Horderns
160
D 159
150
Dl5O. —A prettily-designed Skirt in
White Gabardine, featuring a white
fine check in Saxe, Fancy Side Empiece-
ments forming into pockets. Self-
colored buttons and prettily-fashioned
belt completes.
PRICE 21/-
Dl6O. —Smart White Skirt in Honey-
combed Linen e, showing fancy flSp
patch pockets and cut wide belt, finished
with silk-covered buttons.
PRICE 17/9
Dl59.—A Typically Summer-time Skirt,
fashioned from White Gabardine,
with'" large overcheck in Reseda. The
pretty little gathered pockets and fancy
belt complete nicely.
PRICE 24/6
Skirt Department (Third ,Floor), George
Street.
546
/:
H 346. — ’Smart Sailor, with drooping
brim and new balloon crown of
finest Tagel. Trimmed Cire Rib-
bon. Various effects. Colors:
Lime, Rose, Jade, Navy, Saxe,
Mastic, Lilac, Black.
PRICE 22/6
Distinguished by a smart simplicity of style
the Summer Fashions at Anthony Horderns
represent the highest Quality and Value,
while the prices are the lowest in the land.
You may, with all confidence,
order by mail, relying upon
Anthony Horderns’ efficient
service for complete and last-
ing satisfaction.
Our aim is to give absolute
satisfaction with every order
entrusted to us. Compare price
and quality—in every test
Anthony Horderns’
Values are Supreme.
j
JX 562
v ia/
H 8 9 7. Distinctive
Shape in Fine Luton
Bleach Pedal, trimmed
best-quality Faille Rib-
bon and straw orna-
ment.
PRICE . . 30/-
JX562. Smartly-designed
Coat in Good-quality
Assam, featuring a lattice-
work cable-stitched collar, neat
double cuffs, patch pockets
and all-round belt.
PRICE 53/6
J X 1 5 6.—Protective Dust
Coat, carried out in Good-
quality Assam, possessing
patch pockets, Smart Collar,
cable-stitched, all-round belt,
turned-back cuffs and self-
covered buttons.
PRICE 69/6
Dust Goats (Third Floor),
George Street.
iM
HI 532.—Maid’s Shady
Hat of Plaited,
Bleached Fancy
Straw, contrast edge,
trimmed Raffia Flowers
and Bow.
PRICE . . 13/6
We Pay
Carriage on
Fashion
Goods and
Family
Drapery
to any part
of N.S.W.
On Inter-
State and
Island orders
we pay
carriage to
the nearest
port.
iVilllliffi
H 25
"The House of Economy.
1X695
L
IX2
IXo9s.—Prettily-designed Ivory Crepe
de Chine Blouse, featuring a 801 l
Collar with peaked ends, hemstitched
and pin-tucked fronts, inset sleeves and
double, hemstitched cuffs.
PRICE 32/6
1X33. —Charmingly-cut Blouse in
Lemon-tinted Crepe de Chine, featur-
ing a pretty, hemstitched collar, smartly
hemstitched fronts, inset sleeves, pretty,
turned-back cuffs, hemstitched, Pearl
Buttons finished.
PRICE 37/6
IX2.—Exquisitely-designed Blouse in
White Voile, featuring a large roll
collar, plentifully trimmed Val. Lace
and Insertion, hemstitched, neat .shoulder
points, inset sleeves, hemstitched, and
lace-trimmed cuffs.
PRICE 22/6
Blouse Department (Third Floor) George
Street.
H25.-—Becoming Style in Fine-
quality Italian Pedal. Trimmed
good Faille Ribbon. Black only.
PRICE 21/-
Hl4Bl.—Charming, Fine Italian
Bleached Pedal, edged straw,
and trimmed ribbon in Navy and
Black.
PRICE 21/-
Millinery Department (Third Floor),
George Street.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limi+ed.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.


This GRAFLEX—
COMPLETE FOR £25.
Get one for Christmas.
We offer this Auto Graflex in quarter-plate
size, fitted with a Kodak-Cooke
Anastigmat, aperture F/4.5, complete with one
double-plate holder, for £2s—absolutely the
best value on the market to-day. The camera
will also take the Graflex Roll Holder, Graflex
Magazine Plate Holder or Film Pack Adapter.
It’s life and action in pictures
that make them attractive.
The graceful dive of the expert swimmer; the pole-
vaulter clearing the bar by an inch; the racing motor
skidding in a cloud of dust around the curve; the hawk
rising from the ground with its prey; the elusive expres-
sions and natural, easy poses of the youngsters caught
unprepared—pictures in unlimited variety that are
different—that hold the interest because they tell a story.
You can get them easily with a Graflex, where other
cameras would fail. And the pictures are just as you
want them because you see in the camera a full
picture-size reflection of the subject.
Ask to have this fine instrument demonstrated to you.
KODA.fI (Australasia) PTY LTD.,
Of all Kodak dealers, and
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street,
Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies
Co.. Perth: “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street. Wellington, ISi.Z.
particularly fine records.
I
S'
1
SS3S
Enumerated here are some wonderful records that should be
included in every collection. They are distinguished by that
perfection which has won world-wide fame for
"His Masters Voice
10-inch Double-sided Records, 7/-
j Bells and Blue Ribbon Courtland and Jeffries
l Have a Smile Courtland and Jeffries
8.1054
8.1060
Hindustan
How Ya Gonna Keep ’em Down on the Farm
8.1064
j To Me It's Simply Heaven ’Cos It’s Home Blanch Dare
( The World’s Alright; Keep Smiling Blanch Dare
8.1067
j Till We Meet Again De Groot and Piccadilly Orchestra
{ Where There’s a Girl There’s a 80y... De Groot and Piccadilly Orchestra
8.1077
j Aloha-oe The Hawaiians
( Minnehaha Medley Waltz The Hawaiians
B.1180
j Beautiful Ohio Will Strong and Chorus
(. Palm Tree Island Will Strong and Chorus
12-inch Double-sided, 10/6
C. 873
\ Adagio Religrioso from 4th Concerto (Violin)
( Fantaisie ou Scene de Ballet, Op. 100
C.BBO
j Our Bluejackets—Naval Patrol Coldstream Guards
l Life on the Ocean Coldstream Guards
C. 945
j Love in Lilac-time—Valse
j Love in Lilac-time
Mayfair Dance Orchestra
Violet Essex and Chorus
C. 949
j Allah’s Holiday—Foxtrot Mayfair Dance Orches
l Can You Tame Wild Wimmen? —One-step ... Mayfair Dance Orches
12-
inch
Double-sided Black Label,
12/-
10-inch Double-sided Black Label,
10/-
D.l
f Appeal for for Maimed Scottish
-J Soldiers and Sailors Harry Lauder
[ Shouther to Shouther Harry Lauder
El
f Cherry Ripe .. Philharmonic String Quartet
l March Militaire. .Philharmonic String Quartet
T>.l3
[ Quartet in A Major Op. 41 No. 3, part 1.
-{ Quartet in A Major Op. 41 No. 3, part 2
l (Schumann). .Philharmonic String Quartet
E3
J Sea Fever Fraser Gange
i Absent Fraser Gange
D. 16
f “Ballet Egyptien”—Suite, part 1.
-j “Ballet Egyptien”- Suite, part 2.
[ New Queen’s Hall. Light Orchestra,
Conducted by Mr. Alick Maclean.
“The Gondoliers/’ comprising: 11 12-inch
double-sided black-label records, in beauti-
fully bound album, complete, £6/17/6.
“Merrie England,” comprising 11 12-inch
double-sided black-label records in beauti-
fully bound album, complete, £6/17/6.
Instrument. catalogue, complete record lists and name <?f nearest accredited dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
“GRAMOPHONE”
Reriil. Trade-mark.
163
“His Masters Voice"
Read. Trade-mar};.
hgsd
HIS MASTERS VOICE”


gh
For Constipation
Constipation is dangerous be-
cause it means that poisonous
materials which should have been
expelled from the body are being
retained. The appetite fails, diges-
tion becomes disordered and the
breath offensive. Pinkettes, the new
laxative, are a real help in correct-
ing constipation.
They do not aggravate the com-
plaint as strong purgatives do; and
they do not wear out in their effects.
Taken according to directions they
assist the patient so that the use of
an opening medicine is not a con-
stant necessity.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.*
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST-:—NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 Q.P.0., Melbourne.
sdh
gds
ir mmiMM
The New Idea
in Summer Underwear
“Keepkool” is the
healthy man’s un-
derwear. Made
from absorbent
long staple cotton,
it is both ribbed
and porous ensur-
ing fullest comfort
throughout the hot
summer months.
SOLD BY
LEADING MERCERS
Wholesale Distributors:
HILL BROS, Sydney and Melbourne
'KEEPKOOL” for COMFORT
a
A
a
Why suffer
grey hair to
ag e you?
There’s n o
need! The
deep walnut
color of
youth can be
yours by
means of Dr.
Allen’s Walnut
Stain. Easy to
apply. Absolutely harmless. All
chemists.
MEXICAN |
WALNUT STAINS
The Popular Shilling Tooth Paste
Cleans fbe Leerb wifbouf scratching
fbe brealf);bardens rbe gums
MADE
KWffiitiifflvia
IN
(I s
Australia
If your chemisf or storekeeper
cannof supply, send \fz in stomps
h> Rocke .Tompsitt t Co Melbourne.
There’s a lot of solid comfort
In a
GBD
1 find
When I’m kind of out of humor
Or troubled in my mind.
I'
GBD
the perfect pipe.
Many Popular Shapes.
Sold Everywhere.
GBD
ZA
The World’s Two Leading Marine and
Stationary Crude Oil Engines.
V"
00
m
Marine Type (Single and Double Cylinder).
6 to 35 Horse-power.
For Yachts, Launches and Fishing Boats where light weight, quick starting, easy
running and, last but not least, remarkable low running costs are of importance.
The “AMIS.”
Stocks —6, 10,15 and 20 H.P.
Stationary Type.
The Wonderful Lightweight, Crude
Oil Engine. Stationary and Marine Types.
Powers —6 to 35 H.P.
The Famous “SKANDIA”
Crude Oil Engine, from 40 to 750 H.P.
Stationary and Marine Types.
Suppliers of High-Grade
Lubricating Fuel Oils.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON
Engineering Department,
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Camphor-Laurel Tree.
I said to you: “I wonder why'
So many Springs have passed me by,
And vet till now my eyes have been
Blind to the lovely leaping green
That crowns the camphor-laurel tree!”
And you laughed out and answered me
As one who sings his true love’s praise:
“This is the dearest of her ways—
To show to those that love her. Spring
Has every year some lovelier thing.
And though we could with joy remember
A thousand years, with each September
Spring would bring one beauty more
That we had never marked before.”
N.S.W.
NINA MURDOCH.
In Collins Street.
Wrenched from the lonely bush to serve the
crowd,
Taven and towered, a highway fair to see,
Heart of our city, cries it not aloud
Man lord of nature, grim with victory i
We fling a heavy gage, O conquered Wild !
Answer us, buried under spire and wall.
From a flawed stone among the granite piled
A tiny bush-flower nods, and that is all
A simple statement he who runs may read:
Patience awhile, old earth, till green things
wind .
Prone ruins Avhere the little blue-cupped
weed
Shall laugh triumphant to the tameless
wind,
This selfsame wind that strides as daylight
wanes .
Majestic down the lamp-bedizened street:
The wise wires shiver; little mocking rains
Flout the proud road with flying silver
feet.
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.
For Once and All.
As I walked out this morning,
A stroller by the sea,
No little cloud gave warning
Of rain and gale to be;
But flashed the early swallows,
And soared the gulls on high,
And glowed the hills and hollows
With glamor, far and nigh.
As in a magic palace,
Where one may have Ins wish —
Rich wine in jewelled chalice,
Rare food on golden dish —
Beneath the dome of heaven.
At Beauty’s banquet-board,
To me rare food was given,
For me rich wine was poured.
With song and light to win me,
I lived and- laughed anew,
For in the heart within me
’Twas golden weather too;
For there the birds were soaring,
And singing with their might.
And there the skies were pouring
A rain of lavish light.
The clean tide, shoreward setting,
Came flooding, swift and strong ;
Forgiving and forgetting
All care and grief and wrong,
I walked, oy none attended,
Where peace and wonder dwelt;
For in me, fair and splendid,
High tide of joy I felt.
It seemed that all things centred
In me. and were my own ;
The thrill of morning entered
My blood, and, round me thrown,.
The light of morning swathed me
As in a mantle rare;
As in a lake, I bathed me
In depths of dewy air.
As I walked out this morning,
A stroller by the sea,
No little cloud gave warning
Of rain and gale to be;
That scene supreme, enraptured,
Though gusty torrents fall,
Remains a vision captured—
Made mine for once and all.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Friendship: A Song.
There, where the sullen skies are grey ;
Here, where there dawns unclouded day;
There, dear, as here, my faith was yours.
I hold it for you while my life endures.
Then, when I dreamed your love for me;
Now, when I know love cannot be;
Now, dear, as then, to friendship true,
I thank God daily just for knowing you.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
S. TALBOT SMITH.
Mountain Fires.
By day along the slopes thick smoke-clouds
creep,
And fold the foothills in a funeral pall,
But far above, unstained, the grey peaks
keep
Their calm watch over all.
Through the dark night fierce fires that ring
the base,
And of the strength of forests make a
mock,
Lift, vainly, lurid flames against the face
Of scarped and naked rock.
Fanned by fresh mountain winds they redly
glow
And, passing, mark their way with
blackened scars;
Tet still the peaks, unfretted, rise to know
The fellowship of stars.
TASMANIA.
O’PHIMERTY.


AEROPLANES, Seaplanes
and Aero Engines.
VICKERS-VIMY COMMERCIAL
.
; -v»
■I
:
VICKERS-VIMY TRANS-ATLANTIC
The machines illustrated can be supplied immediately from England. Also all makes of aero
engines, ranging from 75h.p. up to 400h.p.
Prices for complete machines ranging from £650 upwards.
AVBO 304,K
- -•**
DE HA ViLLAND No. 8
U ;, 0E havieland. n«.«
■' ' : S
0E HA VR, LAND Uo 4
UE HAVIELANO No. ©s
mm t
BRISTOL rtCHTBR. **a
n
PE 2 8
/fy; Hi ■■<
S.E 5 a
BE. *.»
ft"
SOFWITH SNIPE
■
ft ■-
■
.
’ ..
F.2.A. PLYING BOAT.
;ft ■ !ft ft ft'ft.'. ■' ft ft .ft.
F. 3. PLY INO ftttGAT.
n.t
BOAT
NORMAN THOMPSON FLYINO
For full particulars write to
VICKERS-AUSTRALIA LTD.. Aviation Dept.
WM. ADAMS CO. LTD..
Corner of King; Clarence Streets, Sydney.
BRANCH OFFICES
MELBOURNE s
Wm. ADAMS & CO., Ltd.,
521-523 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
96-98 Currie Street.
BRISBANE:
Edward and Mary Streets.
PERTH:
33-35 King Street.
NEWCASTLE:
Watt Street.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office., Sydney, N.S.W. \ustralia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 41—No. 2123. t
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1920.
Price 3d.
FROM THE ASHES.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia lor the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
I''or £1 16s. per annum you can have The
Bulletin seht regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, ancl
all Business Commuhications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
' Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short , Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding tivo columns in length, or, say,
SOVO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction— i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and fV. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.I/;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High.
Ilolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., hhl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; The International Bookshop, Has-
tings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver, 8.C.; the
Boston Hat Works and News Co., 109 A Eighth
Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. —Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; J. Roland liay Co., 181/9
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Liberty Neivs
Co., Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth
Avenue and 21th Street, New York; Schulte News
Agency, Bryant Park, l/2nd Street and 6th Avenue,
New York City; Golden Gate News Agency, 719
Market Street, Chicago; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singavore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper ): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe
Islands. 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Bioz. to 10oz..
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, 1/oz., lid., and
id. each additional Hoz.
'SuTZßxxlleZzfli.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1920.
OUR PACIFIST MILITARISTS.
“In every particle of my being I am saturated with
pacifism. I would have no army. I would have
no navy. I would appeal to the honor and goodwill
of nations, instead of to their fear. I believe that
such a policy would succeed infinitely better than
any scheme of military preparations.” —Confession of
the Editor of the Australian Worker.
It is true the writer of this text qualifies it
later by 'admitting that the nations are
devoid of “honor and goodwill,” that they
are inoculated with “capitalistic dope,” and
that “they are ready- at any moment to fall
upon one another, inflamed by spirituous lies,
and in a state of homicidal intoxication,
with a slaver of hypocritical idealism drip-
ping from their lips, wade through whole-
sale slaughter to wholesale theft.” Yet he
and his kind keep their dangerous ideal
before them ; if not to the extent of advocat-
ing wholesale disarmament, at least to that
of opposing further armaments. They don’t
go so far as to say that the Commonwealth
should scrap the now obsolete R.A.N., but
they do reject the idea of co-operating with
the’ Imperial Navy on a scale proportioned
to our national responsibilities. They don’t
put a plank into their political platform -
designed to wipe out the armed forces of
Australia altogether, but they reprobate
“militarism” every time it is suggested that
the army should be transformed from what
it is—namely, a refuge for a handful of
persons with a taste for doing office-work in
uniform —into an efficient striking-force.
And yet no navy at all is quite as useful as
and much cheaper than one which can be
blown out of the water without hope of
retaliation: and a pocket army, destitute
of modern weapons and of experience in
the use of them, only represents a needless
burden on the taxpayers. There is some-
thing to be said for the whole-hog pacifists
of Europe, some of whose arguments are
becoming fashionable amongst a section of
Labor men here. They correspond to the
small North Sea shipowner who shouldered
all risks as regards his fleet during the worst
part of the submarine campaign. But what
sense is there in paying a fairly heavy
premium to an insurance co. which doesn’t
pretend that it will be able to come up to
the financial scratch in case of need?
It is significant that the semi-pacifists of
Australia never talk half-measures on indus-
trial issues: only on national ones. Where
the class-war is concerned they are as pro-
vocative as any of the sabre-rattlers of 1914
and earlier. This is understandable. A
century ago the working classes were com-
pulsory pacifists in the industrial sphere.
The repeal of the Combination Laws and
similar repressive measures made it possible
for them to arm. The workers of England
would have preferred, no doubt, to secure
raised wages and better conditions without
the trouble and expense of battling for them,
and they would have wished, if possible, to
hold or increase such advantages without
taxing themselves for the upkeep of more
and more union organisers and more and
more Labor editors. But in temporal
as in spiritual affairs the movement which
does not go forward goes back. Labor knows
perfectly well that if it broke up its de-
fence force to-morrow —in other words,
abolished militant unionism—the workers
would not be long in reverting to conditions
under which they lived in the early part of
last century. That is why the conscientious
objector or shirker is regarded with such
disfavor amongst industrialists, who have
coined a term of opprobrium for his special
benefit. Mqny modern unionists go a great
deal further in their militarism than any
civilised nation ever has—not even except-
ing Germany under Ivaiserism. The nations
have always maintained elaborate machines
which aimed, however ineffectually, to sub-
stitute negotiation for war. A big and
growing Labor section rejects discussion be-
tween employers and employed, as an
arrangement which can only produce pallia-
tives, and so weaken the aims of the fighting
men. This section, whose watchword is
“Demand upon demand, blow upon blow'
until the -Capitalist State is destroyed,” is
as bellicose as Rome in Cato’s day was in
respect of Carthage, as the Carthaginian
Vandals became later in respect of Rome.
They are not going to be satisfied with Capi-
talism’s skin; they propose to slay the crea-
ture and get at its liver and lights as well.
* * * *
Now, there may be some germ of sense in
the idea that with the total extinction of
Capital—involving, of course, the departure
of the well-paid boss, or skilled director, or
expert, or organiser—there will be more
wealth available, at the cost of less work, for
the proletariat. The theory is opposed to
every known economic law ; still there may
prove to be something in it. There is an
argument, albeit of a negative variety, in
its favor: such an essentially Stone Age
scheme has not yet been tried on a national
scale. But that nations can hold their
hardly-won social and political privileges by
action any less strenuous that that which
they adopted to achieve them is a fallacy
that has been proved 10,000 times. The
whole industrial edifice which the Australian
worker has built up in- the last quarter of a
century, representing a standard of living un-
equalled for comfort anywhere else, rests
broad-based on the exclusion of cheap labor.
But within a few days’ steam of the Com-
monwealth’s northern shores there exists the
biggest cheap-labor market in the world.
Japan, which constitutes part of it, is in
effect 3000 miles nearer Australia than it
was in 1914. The formidable people of that
country, whose newspapers make no effort
to conceal the fact that they intend to ex-
pand—and, in fact, must do so—are already
established in the Caroline and Marshall
islands, and they are fast filling the Mar-
quesas and Loyalty islands, the New Hebrides
and New Caledonia; while there is a sus-
picion not far removed from certainty that
large numbers are illicitly entering the Com-
monwealth. It can oiily be a matter of time
—they are saying it thfemselves daily in their
vernacular press—when the acid-test will be
put upon our Alien Immigration Restriction
policy. It will avail nothing then that Capital
should have just sustained the knock-out blow,
and that legislation should be on the Statute
Books designed to provide every citizen with
£lO for a working week of 40 hours or less.
It will likewise avail nothing if, in face of
Japan’s four 32,000-ton battleships of the
1920 class, and of its modern air-force com-
prising 700 efficient pilots, we are able only
to present the light-cruiser Adelaide, which
was laid down in 1916, and an air-service
which does not possess even one fighting
’plane. The only thing to protect the in-
dustrial system, the one factor which may
have our cities from the spectacle of 16-inch
shells bursting in their streets, will be those
naval and military preparations which re-
volt the soul of the new-style Labor man.
Unbacked by them the tributes torn from
Capital by the militarists of the Labor army
must be as impermanent as cut flowers.
THE HOME RULE BANNER IN
RIVERINA.
The spasmodic or sporadic secession move-
ment which affects the south-eastern triangle
of N. S. Wales from the Murrumbidgee-
Murray junction to the coast, and occasion-
ally spreads to adjacent parts, is awake
again. This time there are reasons it
should be a fight to a finish. In old days
the grievances were numerous enough, and
they are much more so now. In the first
place, everything south of Junee wants to
belong to Melbourne, for simple trade
reasons if it can’t do better, though it would
probably rather belong to itself and have
its own capital and its own port at Two-
fold Bay, and then make it£ own business
arrangements with Melbourne as an alterna-
tive outlet. From Junee or Temora south-
ward Melbourne is a nearer port than Syd-
ney, and would be far cheaper of access if
a Government at Wagga or thereabouts could
deal with its own bit of the break-of-gauge
question and make its own connections. As
a separate entity Riverina could arrange for
a uniform gauge with Victoria as far as its
own northern border and then trade either
way as it pleased, while if it waits for the
Sydney Government to remedy its trouble it
may wait till Judgment Morrow. The rul-
ing people at the old city regard the break
at the border as an asset, however much they,
lie to the contrary, for the cost of tranship-
ment drives traffic north regardless of dis-
tance. To the people wffiose traffic is driven
it is nothing but loss. Even if some serious
attempt were made at the unification of
gauges, which isn’t likely, Riverina might
be the last part of the Ma State to receive
attention, while if it had power to attend
to itself it would be the first. Apart from
any cheap connection with Melbourne the
place wants to use its own port at Twofold
Bay, and make another Sydney there, so
that'a town like Bombala would be 40 or 50
miles from reachable deep water instead of
31S miles away as at present. It wants to
have its own line running west from its own
harbor city, just as lines run west from
Sydney and to a small extent from New-
castle, but from no other places, because the
Sydney mandarins prohibit development.
This sort of thing comes under the familiar
heading of “decentralisation,” and decen-
tralisation has been the slogan of all Sydney
Governments for ever so long. While they have
mouthed big promises they have centralised
all they knew, and the big city which is
their sole consideration has swallowed a
larger and larger proportion of the State's
population. One activity after another
has been removed to it. Even the recent
State guarantee of ah extra 2s. 6d. per
bushel for wheat is conditional on the grain
travelling to the same old pluce. Some
Western Riverina wheat, which must go
Melbournewards because there is a railway
that way while there is none to Sydney, is
shut out of the bargain, and the grower,
though he is as much a N. S. Wales citizen
as if he lived at Balmain or Botany, gets
no 2s. Gd. The position now is that any
place fur north or south of the capital
which hopes for some sort of commercial or
industrial life of its own wholly mistrusts
the decentralisation promise of any Minister
who hangs out in the old Port Jackson
town and has soaked in its traditions. It
is as impossible to teach such a person that
any place outside the metropolis and its
immediate hinterland has any rights, save
those that Sydney gives and takes away
again, as it is to teach a crusted old Turk
the spiritual and political equality of an
Armenian Christian. He may be convinced,
•but it is a case of the hog convinced against
its swill.
* * * *
All these grievances, out of which the
North Coast secession movement has also
grown, are old enough, but there are also
new ones. The railway deficit grows vast
and hideous, and an increasing burden is
laid on districts which are allowed no effi-
cient services of their own and no ports
of their own to support the growing network
of lines that feed the big city and no place
else. It is calculated, though perhaps it is
an exaggeration, that secession would reduce
by 40 per cent, the taxes of the seceded
districts, they taking over their own natural
lines and their per capita share of the debt.
Now there is a new Government in the Ma
State capital, and it is several times worse
than those which went before it. The
Premier and the Chairman of Committees,
are from Balmain (Sydney). Two Minis-
ters are from Botany (Sydney). One Minis-
ter is from St. George and one from Parra-
matta (both practically Sydney). Another
is from Western Suburbs (Sydney). Four
are from country districts which depend
geographically on Sydney. The Speaker
represents Sydney. The principal Upper
House nominee member of the Ministry is
a baby-lawyer who belongs to Sydney. The
first appointment to the Public Works Com-
mittee was still another politician from
Botany (Sydney). All these people have
their old Botany and Balmain cronies buzz-
ing round them like flies to help run the
State. They are all legroped to the Trades
Hall in Sydney. What attention most of
them spare from Sydney is given to Ire-
land. They have no sympathy with or
understanding of any Home Rule idea what-
soever except the Irish one. They are
financially quite mad and wholly incom-
petent, and the knowledge weighs on the
Riverina people with the force of a new
argument that, even if they fail to get
autonomy, yet annexation by the shifting of
the dividing line from the Murray to the
Murrumbidgee would remove them out of
all this chaos and pother and into a sane,
fairly well-ordered State where their tax-
burdens would be little more than half. This
new crowd in office in Sydney also main-
tains a frothy pose as rebels against some-
thing or other, and cultivates a frothy
aspect of bitter injury suffered at the hands
of somebody or other, and which calLs for
the amplest reparation somehow or other.
The froth interferes with business. So
there is an increasing desire on tHe part of
the neglected North and the neglected South
(and the Far West may yet join in) to
break away from the riotous and ruinous
and combustible young lions who come alto-
gether too numerously from Botany (Syd-
ney), and leave the gay metropolis and a
scrap of adjacent territory to be a sort of
City State like Hamburg—to push it out. in
fact, rather than go out themselves. The
idea of all these fresh young street-bred
people being in charge of 300,000 square
miles of ox and sheep and wheat country
which has sober work to do is alarming.
UNDER THE BANYAN.
The heavy masses of a colossal banyan-tree
stood darkly outlined by three camp-fires
against a background of Australian night.
But not the night of western plains, warm
and fragrant with a scent of drying herbage,
or the night of cool coastal ranges, or pun-
gent southern bush. It differed from these
as High Mass differs from plain Presby-
terian service. It was the hashis-eatmg,
almond-eyed, overscented night of the far,
far north of Australia.
For the sake of company we had all come
to the central fire, that of the Director of
Unspecified Tropical Possibilities, a Federal
official from south who had won his billet
through the fortuitous fact of a wife’s
sister having been operated on for hare-lip.
It was already rumored in the Territory
that this latest discovery of the Minister for
Informal Affairs had no knowledge of tro-
pical possibilities beyond what he had
acquired in retail traffic in pineapples and
bananas. It was understood, however, that
the Director’s ancestors had stood firmly
for a fair deal to greengrocers’ assistants in
that memorable year when the Produce
Princes were resisting the demands of their
assistants for less work and more pay, witli
free fruit and vegetables. It chanced that
the niece of the Bimbashi for Informal
Affairs was operated on for hare-lip in a
private hospital in Melbourne at the same
time as the other’s wife’s sister, and there
you have it.
The Director, an obstinate character,
suffering from constant nervousness that
somebody would find him out, saturated from
epidermis to appendix with southern paro-
chialism, wrapped up mentally in the con-
stricted cocoon of cold climates, had already
added to the complications of misgovernment
in the Far North.
While Callender and I were listening to
the New Bird’s.opinions on Tropical Possi-
bilities the camper front the third fire softly
joined us. It was llarimoto, buyer of Aus-
tralian pearl-shell for Shanghai merchants,
sometimes at Darwin, sometimes at Thurs-
day Island, sometimes at Broome. Hahi-
moto travelled gently but consistently on
the north-west coast, by pearling luggers,
schooners and cattle steamers; sometimes he
took little trips into tin* interior of the
country—for no advertised purpose. We
looked up at his apologetic salutation, so soft
and deferential, but without awkwardness or
servility.
“Good night, genTmen; nice night.”
llarimoto’s English varied with the char-
acter of those he talked to. Sometimes it
was almost faultless, at other times little
more than plain pidgin.
It was, in fact, a night of splendor, lit by
tropic stars, freshened by a sea breeze whose
approaches tin* leaves of the screw-palms
met with rustling noises like offended silk
petticoats pretending to withdraw from the
encounter.
A little drawn into shadow, llarimoto
squatted on his buttocks, and proceeded to
listen with a sleepy, detached air of disin-
terested politeness.
The Director’s fluency indicated political
practice. After judicious encouragement lie
began to unload himself of opinions which
the incompetents in Melbourne had put into
currency in order to conceal their own colos-
sal incapacities. “I have only been here
three months,” he said, “but I can see that
until the ’ole White Ant party is wiped out
root and branch nothing can be done with
this country. Nothing.”
Callender was from south also, but, by
an accident, one of the very few intelligent
officials sent north by metropolitan muddlers
after the farce began.
“I don’t know,” he said ; “I’ve oply been
north a year, but it seems to me that a
man wants to live here half a lifetime at
least before he really knows anything. The
White Ant crowd have stuck it, some of
them for .nearly 30 years. Every boat that
leaves Darwin is taking back new fellows'
who have chucked it after a few weeks or
months at the outside.”
I looked across at Harimoto. His face
was as fixed as the face of a figure on a
Satsuma vase.
“That brings us to the question, is it a
white man’s country, after all?” said Cal-
lender.
“White man’s country ! What else? You
■wouldn't propose to give it over to the
damned dirty little Japs, would you?”
A sort of shudder ran down my back. I
looked across again quickly at llarimoto,
whom I had met in the North-West and
knew to be a highly-cultured Japanese and a
graduate of an American university. The
Director’s educational qualifications consisted
of the usual compulsory course in an Aus-
tralian State school.
The face of Harimoto was still perfectly
immobile. He seemed to be examining some
insect between his feet.
Callender also half turned towards Hari-
moto, as if he meant to explain or apologise.
“I don’t care if this fellow is a Jap,”
blustered the Director, suddenly realising
where we were looking and why. “I say,
and the Government in Melbourne says, it is
better to leave Northern Australia unde-
veloped and unoccupied for ever than make
any exceptions to the White Australia policy.
If we cannot do it with white labor, we will
not do it with colored labor. But,” he went
on, ignoring the figure squatted like a stone
Buddha in the shadow 7 , “we can do it and we
will do it. This country is full of immense
possibilities.” And for half an hour the
Director explained the possibilities as they
appeared to his department—a carefully-
rehearsed lesson, it seemed, put together by
officials of the Informal Affairs Department,
who had been no nearer to the Equator than
the northern end of Collins-street.
It may be so. Never perhaps in
the history of mankind had the gov-
ernment of 500,000-odd square miles of
the earth’s surface been attempted - over
a telegraph-wire 2800 miles in length,
with a horse-doctor at one end and a stereo-
typed civil-service clerk at the other. Ad-
jectives fail to describe the results, as they
appeared to any sane man, even at that early
stage, long before the Director of Tropical
Possibilities had passed back into unofficial
oblivion. They were grotesque, they were
tragical, full of impossible blunders, in-
credible waste, unthinkable anomalies. It
was like chapters from “Alice in Wonder-
land,” with Nick Bottom’s oratory, Mun-
chausen’s humor, Gilbert and Sullivan’s
comedy, and the wildest Charlie Chaplin
farce ‘all blended together. The only pity
was that the people paying for the produc-
tion were too far away to see what fun they
were getting for their money.
The Director, a typical official of the usual
kind recruited for the solving of Australia’s
Greatest Problem, delivered his last common-
places, and, with some sounds of climatic-
distress, disappeared under his cheese-cloth.
I smoked with Callender a while longer
and then he too made off to bunk.


\s each white man passed out from that
narrowing circle of firelight he said “Good-
D 1 Harimoto echoed softly, politely :
“Good-night.” ,
The night was too lovely, too interesting
for sleep. I refilled my pipe. The Japanese
rolled a cigarette, lit it, and drew closer m
towards the fire. I felt awkward somehow.
Suddenly I caught his eyes lifted to mine.
He smiled —a perfectly frank and Iriendlj
smile. I understood quite well that the man
opposite wished to convey to me his assur-
ance as a man that he was not in the least
offended by anything he had heard.
“Harimoto,” I said after a long time,
“whatever is to be will be —do you believe
that?” _
“Of course,” he replied. “It is Bushido.
“Then it does not matter if you tell me
whether or not the men of Nippon will some
day come here?”
He regarded me as if from a long, long
way off. “That is question,” he replied
slowly, “that would perhaps be impolite to
give immediate reply.*”
“Then.” I said, after turning his answer
over very carefully, “do you think that if’’
—I avoided using the word “when” —“if your
people come here they will do more with
this country than we are doing with it?”
Harimoto wrinkled his face up into the
oddest smile. “You are intelligent man,” he
said. “You write for books! I surprised
you ask such damfoolish question!”
And then I saw why Harimoto had no
reason to feel offended.
Overhead the Cross swung high in a blue-
black velvet sky. South for 1500 miles the
light of no White. Man’s city marked his
title-deeds of occupation in the dark. West
for 800 miles there was not a White Man’s
village snuggled down to sleep. East for
700 miles no White Man’s watchdog barked.
North
Away North, and yet not so far, lay
millions and millions of Brown Men and
Yellow Men, crowded, eager, toiling, needing,
responding, just as the White Man responds,
to the stimulus of life; armed with the
White Man’s weapons and answering to the
world-old incentives of Love and Hate, of
Ilunaer and Desire, of Ambition and Gain.
“Hartmoto/’ I said, knocking out my
pipe, “I think Igo to bed now. Good-night.”
“Good-night,” lie replied. And as I passed
over towards my cheese-cloth, he added, in a
voice like the purr of a cat:
“I hope you sleep well!”
PETER PANDANUS.
PLAIN. ENGLISH.
Federal Control of Insolvent States.
A VERY urgent amendment, which should
have been included in The Bulletin’s re-
cently-published draft of a new Federal Con-
stitution if it wasn’t, is a provision for deal-
ing with bankrupt States. Just as the
Romans are alleged to have forgotten the
need for a law against parricide, the crime
being impossible, so the Federal Constitution-
builders overlooked this item, and for the
same reason. Now State bankruptcy is more
than possible. Openly and plainly the
Queensland Government has avowed the idea
of intercepting dividends that threaten to
leave the country, and if the intercepting of
the interest isn’t the same as the repudiation
of the principal the meaning of words has
been mislaid. The only adequate remedy in
such a case is that the Federal Government
should have power to suspend an insolvent
State’s Constitution —as was once done with
the Municipal Constitution of Sydney—close
its Parliament indefinitely,' take general
charge of the assigned estate and make such
arrangements as it can. Probably it wouldn’t
exercise its powers to the utmost where there
was even a poor plea of misfortune to be
made out, but in a case of sheer truculent
dishonesty they would be employed as a
matter of course. (And some of the reasons
why it should have the powers are these: —
There is no other Federation where the debts of
the States are bigger than those of the Common-
wealth, and where a State default could make such
a universal crash. Where railways are either pri-
vately owned or belong to the Central Government,
and especially where the Central Government, whi.ch
is usually the more honest of the two, has authority
to make little wild-cat provincial law-makers walk
a chalk- or bee-line, local debts are small and the
collapse of a local Treasury is no earth-shaking affair.
Here such a thing would pull down the house.
If the defaulter is not bailiffed and made to pay
up, then the other States might be driven to pay
its debts for it. That is the first alternative, but it
would be a ruinous and sinful plundering of honest
people for the profit of rogues. And when it was
found that the credit of honest people was behind the
rogues, the latter might be able to borrow again and
go bankrupt again and leave another infant on the
doorstep.
If, on the other hand, the swindling State were
left to go its own swindling way, and pose as a
shining example of the fact that dishonesty pays,
then, when a Federal debt or a bit of another
State’s 31 per cent, debt fell due (and they are
always doing that), the price of renewal would
probably be about 121 P er cent. In that way Aus-
tralia would meet with almost as big a loss as if it
paid up for the cheeky defaulter.
To put the matter shortly, a wild-cat State
can use the Commonwealth’s credit, whatever
that may be worth. The name of every State,
even little remote Tasmania, is more or less
on the back of Theodore’s bills, past and
present and future, though Tasmania never
put it there. Which is something for the
island to think over when it wakes up in the
m-dit.
♦
The Disorder of Knighthood,
In Britain, where it was spawned, the Order
of the British Empire is regarded as a
national jest. Canada refuses to have the
thing on the premises; in fact, Ottawa has
intimated to London that it will no longer
gratify the vanity of native-born trucklers
and tuft-hunters by recommending them for
British titles. But Australia, which still
runs, seven imitation kings and tolerates the
publication of sham Court Circulars, is
reaching out for the 0.8. E a certain
bind of Australian is—with both hands.
On the principle that nothing is too tawdry
for so grovelling a breed, 188 more of the
gauds that the Briton laughs at and the
Canadian rejects with scorn have been
thrown into the Commonwealth. There is
another G.8.E., who is privileged to look
down on the other 18-7, being class
by himself; there are nine new K.B.E.’s—i.e.,
second-class knights—and 23 additional
C.B.E.’s, that is to say, Cobbers of the third-
class. There are likewise 93 fresh fourth-
class 0.8.E.’5, and 62 fifth-class M.B.E.’s,
who, of course, are Merely Blokes, Etcetera,
to distinguish them from the first-class, who
are Gilded Blokes, Etcetera, and the Ordi-
nary Blokes, Etcetera. There ought to he
a sixth-class of Plain Blokes without
etceteras, but it appears to have been mis-
laid. Nevertheless, the list, as published,
represents a large and impressive contribu-
tion to the new Australian aristocracy, and
it will soon be impo,ssible to heave a brick
down any Australian by-way without hit-
ting an 0.8. E. And the awards have been
allotted with a proper regard for the eternal
unfitness of things. Professor David, for
instance, receives a knighthood, and so
does Tom ’Enley. Successful land-jobbers
and mining speculators are also knighted,
while distinguished surgeons who have
achieved wonderful things for maimed Dig-
gers are relegated to the fifth-class. Poli-
ticians, their wives, Chamber of Commerce
functionaries and “society” flutterers are
rewarded with distinctions, presumably for
hanging around the Red Cross or something
of the kind, but the plain brown men and
homespun women who did the work are
mostly among the also-rans. In the country
which bred the Digger, and in a world
made safe for democracy, this thirst for
inclusion in a gimcrack order of knighthood
is as incongruous as a Hottentot in an
aerodrome. But it is only in keeping with,
the spirit of flunkeyism which is responsible
for the survival of half-a-dozen mock Courts
and for the publication in the daily press
of a gloating “Vice-Regal Column,” in which
tin* social climber reads with unspeakable
delight that his Excellency Sir Adolphus
Cocked-Hat, K. 8., and Lady Cocked-Hat,
attended by Captain the Hon. Gold-Stick,
A.D.C., and his Excellency’s private secre-
tary, Mr. Reginald Fetciiancarry, 0.8. E.,
attended the Profiteers’ Ball at the Go-as-
You-Please Cafe.
Cocky and His Kind Friend.
The importers of Yankee and other agri-
cultural implements are crying to Australian
farmers to assist them in blocking the new
Tariff proposals. The only exhibition of
“hide” to match this would be a deputation
of dingoes appealing to the Jumbueks’ Union
to help them in removing the bonus upon
dingo scalps. The extortionate prices de-
manded for the farmers’ tools of trade by
importers is not the only hard squeeze the
cocky has to suffer. Ploughs, seed-drills,
reapers and binders, etc., are made up of
many parts that require renewing frequently.
This fact gives the foreign manufacturer
an opportunity of squeezing a huge profit
out of the saje of spare parts, and his
methods are ingenious,. By making the parts
a little different from any ordinary stock
article, he ensures the sale of his parts
at his own price—or the importer’s price.
For instance, shares for an Australian plough
may be purchased for 245. per dozen. Break
the share on an imported plough—of some
makes, at any rate —and it will cost 4s. or
more to replace it, because the foot of the
plough is so constructed that no Australian
stock share will fit on it. Parts for other
imported implements have to be paid for
upon the same bushranging terms. Even, the
comparatively small item of nuts and bolts
is not overlooked as an extra profit-maker.
Thus a lUn.-bolt for a ploughshare costs
Bd. An ordinary bolt of that size would
cost about Is. per dozen. But the foreign-
made hole in the share is “a little dif-
ferent,” hence the higher price to fill it
with the foreign bolt. Some foreign makers
even have left-hand threads on their bolts
where there is not the slightest reason for
it—except that it puts the Australian user
at the foreign maker’s mercy once the
machine is bought. Moreover, if the farmer
loses a nut he can’t replace it with any old
nut handy. Consequently he has often to
knock off work and ride miles to the nearest
town. The average cocky, unlike the toiler
in the city, hates to have his toil interrupted.
He hates it worse when after a long ride to
town he is told : “None here, must write to
the city for it” : for two or three days lost
is a seriqus matter at harvest. Some-
times Cocky is not able to get spare parts
for his derelicts at any price owing to the
manufacturers quarrelling with their Austra-
lian agents and ceasing to export to his help-
less country.
♦
Where Every Girl Has a Right to Be
a Mother.
Parsons are notable weepers and exhorters,
but at dealing with the cause of the trouble
they are less conspicuous successes. It
runs in the family. Jeremiah’s lamenta-
tions, for instance, were superb, but no con-
tributions of his to the sanitation of Jeru-
salem are extant. So it was quite in keep-
ing that a new crusade against the slummi-
ness of Sydney should have been inaugurated
before the Christian Social Union by the
Rev. Tugwell, of St. Peter’s, and the Rev.
Garnsey, of St. Paul’s College, after this
wise:—
There were two questions to face in the housing
problem. Overcrowding must be prevented and each
family must have a house of its own. The lecturer
referred to an area in Redfern where, on three-
quarters of an acre, there were 37 houses....ln
Nicholson-street, Woolloomooloo, there are two rows
of houses whose back yards measure 12ft. by 6ft
The worst evil was the spoiling of character. Women
in the slum areas sat on their doorsteps and took
no interest in their homes.... It was hopeless to
expect high morals from people who live four or
five families to the house. “Down in some parts of
my parish,” said Mr. Tugwell, “the prevailing idea
is that every girl has a right to be a mother”...i.
He quoted os an example the garden village of Letch-
worth in England.
It was the usual hopelessly inefficient anti-
climax. Sydney’s first trouble is that its
people have to huddle closer than in almost
any other white man’s city of importance
in order to be near their work, for, in the
lack of overhead railways, tube railways
and city surface railways, all travelling is
by slow tram through narrow streets. Its
second annoyance is that —apart from two
other horrible examples, both in Australia—
it represents the world’s one supreme effort
to crowd half the population of a country
big enough to be an empire into one town;
and no town on earth has approached the
million mark without people in some part
of it being too closely compressed, and in
consequence morally and physically cor-
rupted. The Bulletin’s idea is that new
cities founded on sanitary principles and
with the State as sole ground landlord should
be raised at other good ports now practi-
cally deserted. They would rise by them-
selves if granted the advantages that Sydney
and Melbourne and Adelaide and Perth and
Brisbane possess—a railway apiece strik-
ing directly inland to bring them trade, with,
control of their railways. Then Sydney
could have a rest from expansion and might
even lose some population, and there would
be more breathing space and time to clean
up. Canada, with about 8,000,000 people
against Australia’s 5,000,000, is content to
have its prize city not much more than half
the size of the great wen called Sydney.
That is a sort of practical example, while
the garden hamlet of Letchford in England,
if there be such a place, isn’t.
The Catch in a Fancy System.
When the late Holman Government was
struggling with a sort-of-a-kind-of propor-
tional voting scheme, the be-all and end-all
of which was the saving of its own skin, it
forgot that members of Parliament some-
times die, are translated to the Bench, or
retire from politics to go punting, Australian
legislators being marvellously successful on
the turf. Accordingly it neglected to make
provision for the tilling of vacancies, and
when the Storey Government emerged from
the turmoil of March 30, without a majority
and with ouly half a mandate, the omission
became important. On August 10, G. S.
Beeby, of Murray, resigned to accept a
judgeship. On September 21, A. G. F.
James, of Goulburn, followed suit. (That
same day it was reported to the House that
George Briner would represent Oxley no
more. And last week James Ftngleton, of
Eastern Suburbs, went over the hill like
Briner. Fingleton was a Laborite, Briner
a Progressive, Beeby another Progressive
and James a Nationalist; in other words,
three of them were Oppositionists and the
other a supporter of the Government.
Storey and his friends began wrestling with
the problem of what to do in the unusual
circumstances as soon as Beeby left, and
they hadn’t decided to do anything in par-
ticular when the situation was complicated
by the withdrawal of James and Briner.
Their discussions involved points of casuistry
as well as expediency. The accident of cir-
cumstances had given them a majority. Why
shouldn’t they preserve it, and assure their-
continuance in office for three years, by
awarding the vacant seats to the candidates
next on the list, irrespective of party, on
March 30? They could easily carry the pro-
posal in the absence of Beeby, James and
Briner, and by that means they would get
two more Ministerial supporters, or 47
votes in a House of 90. Thiis ingenious
notion found favor with a lafge section of
the Labor caucus. Ministers, how’ever, in-
sisted that it was their business to respect
the proportional principle and to secure the
representation of parties, as laid down by
the electors. In the end this view
prevailed, although the voting in caucus
was uncommonly close r so thje late
members are to be' succeeded by repre-
sentatives of the same parties—by the
men who, among the defeated, can-
didates of their stripe at the general elec-
tion, secured the greatest number of votes.
This means that M. Kilpatrick', a Pro-
gressive, will be the new member for Murray ;
T. PI. Hill, also a Progressive, will be
added to the Oxley group; and Captain
Millard, a Nationalist, will sit in James’s
place for Goulburn. But in the case of
Eastern Suburbs a difficulty arises, for D.
F. Dwyer, the endorsed Labor candidate,
who is apparently to be given the seat,
polled fewer votes than J. S. Campbell.
who also stood as a Labor man but wasn’t
endorsed. In the beginning Campbell, was
the selected Labor nominee, but his creden-
tials were withdrawn for the same reason
as were those of P. J. MrNAHAjf, who was
returned for Sydney and lias since been re-
admitted to the fold. Ci? msidering the ten-
derness with which Monahan has been
treated it seems unfair to pass Campbell
over, but the injustice to his constituents,
whose sentiments haven? t been considered at
all, is more conspicuous-, still. In fact, the
whole business of detf ;rmining representa-
tives of the people b y the caprice of a
caucus clique is gross] y objectionable, from
the elector’s point of i iew. It is a danger-
ous invasion of the rights of constituencies.
The Storey Government may be given credit
for honesty of purpoa ?, but the fact renJ|ns
that many of its ff,llowers were eager to
clothe it with a majority which the electors
had refused to grA'nt, and to thrust upon
unconsulted constituencies the rejected
representatives of local minorities. And it
is not difficult to imagine a set of circum-
stances in which an unscrupulous faction,
flung into office "by a fluke, could run the
country for three years by finding billets for
ambitious onponemis and filling tine vacan-
cies with tb.eir friends —in short, by system-
atic abuse.. of power. By-elections are
sometimes a nuisance, but their abolition can
be purchased at too high a price. When the
price is the sacrifice of the people’s right
to be represented' by men of their own
choice, and also the sacrifice of the right to
say whether they shall be governed by a
majority or a minority, it is too high alto-
gether. The trouble with fancy franchises
and freak systems of! voting is that most of
them have a catch. Jn the N. Si. Wales
brand of proportional Irepresentaffion. so-
called, the catch is that .power is ta’ken from
the constituencies amd vested in the politi-
cians.
,—«
Public Service R egarded as an Offence.
Last week T. J. Ley gave notice of his
intention to mo* /e in the N. S„ Wales
Assembly that “ ao member of Parliament
shall be eligible for appointment to any
judicial office until two years after ceasing
to hold a seat i n either House.” Had the
proposed system been in operation during
the past half-er «ntury throughout Australia
it would have i jobbed the country of practi-
cally every great jurist it has known, from
Griffith, Martin, Way and Higinbotham
downwards; and no other argument ought
to be necessary to dispose of the absurd
suggestion. There is, however, plenty of
real work for a reformer to tackle in the
sphere which Mr. Ley has entered. A
certain number of barristers went to
the war. In the matter of preference
in employment the Storey Government
is flagrantly disregarding its obligations to
these men. Of the many Crown Prose-
cutorships, which were recently going, only
one fell to a Digger. In Commission work
not one Government brief has gone to a
fighting man. Even the F allieni assign-
ment was handed to a non-soldier. The
barrister who went to the war put himself
under a severe handicap. A Bar practice
is a peculiarly personal affair, and it depends
for its life on its owner’s success in keeping
in touch with all sorts of unstable things,
such as friendships with other lawyers and
with those who are close to the sources of
patronage. According to the generally ac-
cepted estimate, it takes the average man
a good five years to establish himself in this
regard. In the nature of things the man
who went away was mostly young and in
process of establishing himself. The years
he gave to Australia were thus a particu-
larly heavy loss to him ; and no one under-
stands better than Mr. Ley’s friends, the
leaders of the Bar, why it was so. Each
of them was asked recently by the Storey
Government to sit as an acting-Judge. Each
gave as a reason for refusing that his prac-
tice would suffer in his absence. And the
absence here would have been a matter not
of years but of weeks. Lawyers who are
so sedulous in the interests of Justice on
the Bench may reasonably be asked to be
at least equally so in the interests of Jus-
tice at the Bar. They should aim at a
standard as high, anyhow, as that of the
shopkeeper who kept his Digger-employee’s
job open so that the latter might have a
chance to get back into his stride
on his return. If the Bar Council at its
meetings, and the lawyers who do its
work in Parliament, dropped the unedifymg
practice of assailing Judges and concen-
trated instead on directing Crown work to
soldier-barristers where it was practicable
without detriment to efficiency, the profession
would regain some at least of its vanished
reputation for public spirit.
—
The Flogging of H.C.D. with Feathers.
Housewives’ boycotts and anti-profiteering
measures are alike expressions of the pathe-
tic theory that results can be gained without
real effort. There are thousands who get
gratification from cutting a swindling re-
tailer out of their shopping list; and there
are other thousands who believe that ah Act
of Parliament can achieve anything. But
no boycott lasts unless it is entirely just,
and no Act, directed at a class, ever works
unless it has the goodwill of practically the
whole well-disposed community behind it.
Some weaknesses of Australia’s latest efforts
to cope with high prices are that not every
man is a profiteer who, at a casual glance,
looks like one; that thousands who complain
of profiteering are doing as much of it as
they can on their own behalf; and that there
is a vast army who would be disappointed
if they weren’t profiteered. The last are the
most hopeless from the standpoint of the low-
price aspirant. The traditional chorus-girl
who, on being handed the a la carte menu,
picks out the most expensive dishes' without
knowing what they are, has her prototype in
every class of life. Many women buy fan-
tastic clothes, hats and furs, not because the
garments are attractive, but because they
have been imported and are disproportion-
ately costly. The honest trader delivers
goods which have actually come_ from Lon-
don or Paris; another .type puts a foreign
label on a locally-made article, which gives
the buyer just as much satisfaction and earns
the seller a bigger profit. Both help to
damage Australian industry, but in either
case the traders are less blameworthy than
their customers. If the logic of the house-
wives’ associations of Australia were other
than feminine, they would boycott, not the
retailers ivho, being ordinary human beings,
sell their wares for what they will fetch,
but the snobs who enable such prices to be
maintained. In any event neither boycotting
nor legislation is going to do much good to
the general body of workers. In fact,
on the broad principle that what is lost on
the swings is made up on the roundabouts,
indigent Mrs. Brown is likely to be charged
more at Fluff’s Mammoth Emporium for
her children’s boots in proportion as affluent
Mrs. De Vere forces down the price of Rue
de la Paix gloves. It is unphilosophic and
absurd to talk of profiteers and the people
who make them possible as novel criminals
who must be attacked by strange and devi-
ous methods. Almost everyone is a potential
profiteer, and an immense number of people
would be delighted to pay profiteering prices
if they only had the necessary cash. And it
always has been so. If it were possible,
whether by Act of Parliament, or the boy-
cott, or both, to suddenly force prices back
to the pre-war standard, the effect would be
not prosperity, but a rush of unemployment
with which no Government could cope. It is
probable that the very Governments which
are bringing in anti-profiteering measures,
or talking of doing so, realise this truth
most clearly. There is only one real cure,
and that is to get back to first causes and
work from them. What is Cause No. lof
high prices? Devaluated money due to ex-
cessive public borrowing. Therefore, an
improvement must come when we stop bor-
rowing and begin to pay off what we owe.
What is Cause No. 2? Lack of production
and over-importation of useless goods. There-
fore an improvement must come when we
stop importing foreign clothes, boots, hats,
drinks, foodstuffs and the countless other
articles which Australia was created especi-
ally to produce, and increase our own out-
put. But such changes involve sacrifice and
work. And no Government which is in office
on a narrow majority cares to put proposi-
tions of that-sort to its supporters.
♦
The Monkeys and the Fire.
Buckley, of the Australian Railwaymen’s
Union, has given his ultimatum to Australia.
“Those , who toil in the railways and tram-


T h s Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A“ stralia
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL --- £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmens Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
Limited
ways of the Commonwealth must have a
share in the management,” and by way of
a warning that this continent had better
come to heel he cited the case of the Italian
workmen who have taken charge of fac-
tories in certain districts. He must be
either an amazingly ignorant or a wickedly
mischievous man who would quote the
Italian worker as a guide to the Australian.
The Australian railway and tramway
workers hold almost one-tenth of the male
voting power of the country, and their female
belongings hold nearly one-tenth of the
female voting power; so their tmse hasn’t
a ghost of resemblance to that of the Italian
factory-hands who had no voice at all in
the management till they took it. In addi-
tion the railwaymen have a vote each in
the trades union and combine of trades
unions which stop the working of the lines
when things don’t suit them. So they have
two votes already, while the other proprie-
tors have only one apiece, though they in-
clude all the heavy taxpayers who subscribed
£2,694,879 last year to make up the short-
age caused by railway wages and charges
being ahead of the revenue. Buckley’s
demand is thus for a third vote for his
favored clients—a vote on what will he prac-
tically a board of directors—not a multiple
property Vote, but a multiple noq-property
vote. It is good enough for Buckley, who
earns his popularity, which means his Par-
liamentary job as a Labor member and his
other job as president of the union, by mak-
ing such demands; but it is not many years
since Australia began to see its way to get
rid of plural voting, and it is worth a fight
to prevent the thing starting again too
strongly. According to cabled news, the
Italian workmen, whose temporary victory
has inflamed the Buckleys of Australia,
are said to have secured (1) control of
purchases of raw material; (2) ditto sale
of finished goods; (3) ditto rates of pay:
(4) ditto conditions of employment, control
of working expenses and the right to decide
what class of work shall he done by each
person; (5) ditto some other things. In
fact, nothing much is left to anybody else
except the job of finding new factories as
the old ones wear out or become insufficient,
and anybody else may lose interest in that
job. It isn’t likely the arrangement will
last long. It is too much like the episode
of the intelligent apes who took over the
camp-fire, driving away the primitive humans
who built it, and found that they knew
everything about the business save how to
light new fires when the old ones went out.
The “taking-over” department was efficient,
but in the organising and creative one there
was lack of experience. It was the same
with the Bolshevik factory committees, long
since replaced by stern but not very com-
petent Government officials. Presumably
the goal at which a section of Italian work-
ers is said to have arrived, and at which
the Russians certainly did arrive, is the
one aimed at in the railway business, with
the difference that it will be a case of tak-
ing real ownership away from the nation
instead of the other way about. Still, with
luck, it ought to provide a kingly job for
Buckley, whatever it does for other people.
♦
The Doctor in a Dilemma.
Dr. Earle Page, M.H.R., in his defence: —
The analogy The Bulletin draws between the
question of the territorial integrity of the States
and the site of the capital is strained. At the
3891 Convention Parkes regretfully found that the
essential preliminary to negotiations for union was
the admission of the inviolability of State boun-
daries, and no specific popular vote on the question
has: ever been taken. The situation of the capital,
however, was not raised as a vital matter till the
conclusion of the 1897 Convention, and then only
as a peg for Reid to hang his excuse for opposition.
His “slimness” led to an unexpected result. The
stipulation that the capital must be in N. S. Wales,
but not in Sydney, automatically excluded all other
State capitals also. Country Australia joyfully
appreciated this charter, and showed how little it
cared where the capital was, outside those cities, by
an increased affirmative vote on this specific question.
Since then the Federal Parliament, chosen district
by district on a population basis, after years of
deliberation and investigation of many sites selected
Canberra.
Because there must be finality, and not because
of the compact, I support that decision. Its estab-
lishment will create the first important inland
centre in Australia, must lead to some decentralisa-
tion of the N.S.W. railway system, must lead to
the opening of Jervis Bay as another oversea port,
and will stimulate the development of latent hydro-
electric possibilities which may incite the rest of
Australia to utilise its wasting waters. Just now
I advocate its immediate construction because the
expenditure of half a million will place the Federal
Parliament there in 18 months. The first need of
Australia at the present time is Federal, National,
Continental thinking, only to be secured, in my
opinion, from a Parliament situated in Federal ter-
ritory. The internal national problems and our
imminent external menace demand this at the
earliest possible moment. If Canberra were dis-
carded to-morrow there will only be further delay
and no certainty of improvement or alteration, as
Canberra now is in the centre of four-fifths of the
nopulation of the continent from Sydney to Adel-
aide, and votes control the decision. The alternative
is really not some better choice, but its retention
in some State capital, as Melbourne or Sydney. The
plan of a peripatetic capital alternatively 20 years
in Melbourne or Sydney is already being actively
canvassed. The adoption of this plan would be a
national calamity of the first magnitude by entrench-
ing provincialism and State rights.
To which The Bulletin replies with as
much brevity as it can spare:—
(1) It doesn’t matter what Parkes found out at
the Convention which James Muxho of Victoria,
convened in 1891. It wasn’t a body elected by the
people, but appointed itself just as did the Committee
of Premiers that Dr. Earle Page objects to. The
existing proviso against subdivision of States was in
the 1891 bargain—and ihe scheme died.
(2) The People’s Convention left out this proviso,
so that there was no bar to the subdivision of States.
In fact, it expressly allowed subdivision. The people
in the four States where a vote was taken accepted
that; Constitution according to the terms on which
the Convention was elected, though the N.S.W.
Legislature contrived to annul the acceptance. So
whatever Parkes thought in 1891 was wrong.
(3) The Premiers got to work again and put in
the clauses which fix the capital in N. S. Wales—
though not necessarily at Canberra—and make Dr.
Earle Page’s new State a legal impossibility. They
had an excuse for making Dr. Earle Page’s new
State a legal impossibility, for Queensland demanded
it. Nobody demanded the capital.
(4) The doctor’s statement that Australia was so
glad at the Federal capital arrangement that it
BIS CLAIM ON COCKY.
INTERJECTOR: “You say you are more of a farmer's man than your opponent. Why, you
are both city lawyers and you both live in flats!"
CANDIDATE: “But, my friend, I hare a window-box garden."
showed its joy “by an increased affirmative vote on
this specific question” is ridiculous. The capital
question wasn’t put to the people specifically, blit
mixed up with other questions, the subdivision one
principally. There was an increased affirmative vote,
but that may have been because people were wild with
delight to find that Dr. Earle Page’s new State had
been ruled out in advance and declared an obliterated
folly. Anyhow, the strange point is that, though the
affirmative vote increased in every State after the
capital was fixed and Dr. Page’s new State was
cast to the dogs and the wolves, the negative vbte
increased in one State. That was N. S. Wales.
Possibly that was because N. S. Wales was disgusted
at the Federal-capital intrigue.
(5) Some people may call it decentralisation to
crowd another capital (the seventh) into that paltry
fragment of the continent (much of it desert) de-
fined by a line from Brisbane to Perth, or to put a
new capital (the fifth) into the area of about 200,000
square miles (one-fifteenth of the country) de-
fined by a line from Brisbane to Adelaide. Othc,rs
regard it as the last and wickedest effort in con-
gestion, and others, again, as treason to the doctrine
of White Australia by declaring to the world that
the Tropical North is not a White Man’s land and
must be governed from far outside. Twenty years
ago-this didn’t seem urgent. It does now when the
League of Nations is about to sit in judgment on the
case.
(6) The “opening up” of Jervis Bay (87 miles
from Sydney) is not a much bigger thing in de-
centralisation than the opening up -of Botany Bay.
And it won’t be opened up worth mentioning. The
Federal Government only possesses 18,000 acres at
the bay—“to be used for the Naval College and other
Federal works,” as Kxibus puts it —so the State
Government will control the commercial part of it in
the old way. Jervis Bay is 140 miles by rail from
the Federal capital—too far for that city or hamlet
to influence it much when it only possesses an allot-
ment there. A little of the traffic of the State rail-
way to Cooifia may go to the bay if the N. S. Wales
authorities allow it. None of the traffic of the
Melbourne-Sydney line will unless it quits the exist-
ing route at Yass or thereabouts for the purpose (the
connection is to be at Yass) and then deviates into
and out of Canberra for pure patriotism.
(7) It is difficult to see how a capital on top of a
hill and very short of water itself will “stimulate
the development of latent hydro-electric possibilities.”
The plea that the Canberra capital will bring more
population to what is already “the centre of four-
fifths of the population" is a plea for more congestion
—not decentralisation and the filling of the empty
spaces. And as for the bald statement that “there
must be finality”—well, that is found only in the
grave, and theologians say it isn’t found even there.
4— —.
The Air-Services Which Never Come.
For about two years the inhabited back-
blocks of the Commonwealth have been,
awaiting that air-communication with the
more settled parts which countries like
Java and Japan began to enjoy soon after
the Armistice. It is recognised by the
Governments, Federal and State, as well as
by the professional experts, that the speedi-
est and most economical means of starting
an air-service locally is to contract with
one of those aircraft concerns which possess
the requisite appliances and the organisation
to employ them. Also that a condition pre-
cedent to attempting anything on a big
scale is efficient air-control. In the Repre-
sentatives the other day Walter Marks
(Wentworth) asked the Defence Minister
questions on these two points and got the
following characteristic replies :
(1) The question of the appointment of a Con-
troller of Civil Aviation is receiving the personal
attention of the Minister.
(2) Should the Government receive a definite
offer from any civil aviation company stating
exactly the route over which they proposed work-
ing, a proposed time-table, the type of machine and
engine to be used, the number of machines to be
used in the service and in reserve, the places at
which they will establish landing-grounds and han-
gars and workshops, the amount of mail matter that
they are prepared to carry and the remuneration
they desire for this service, then I have no doubt
that the matter will be seriously considered.
If it was intended that Australia’s air-mails
should be permanently carried by Private
Enterprise there might be some point in
waiting for contractors to lease or buy the
landing-grounds and do the necessary build-
ing on them. But obviously the service can
only be an emergency one. Some day the
Government will have to own aerodromes —
if not for postal services, then for defence
purposes. That being so, private aircraft
cos. are not likely to spend £30,000 here
and £40,000 there. And, in any event,
a sum was allocated in the last Estimates
for that very groundwork which it is now
suggested should be undertaken by .specu-
lators. There are several routes which
aviation cos. would tackle to-morrow under
practicable conditions —notably Broken Hill-
Mildura-Adelaide, Melbourne- Albury-Sydney
and Longreach-Winton-t'loncurry. But it
is not the place of any private Co.'" to specify
“the type of machine and engine to be used
in the service.” That should be the duty
of a Controller, who should be appointed
and given time to frame his air rules and
regulations before any civil aviation enter-
prise is encouraged to quote. As a matter
of fact, until this is done no reputable firm
will quote; and the lives as well as the
correspondence of the inhabitants of Aus-
tralia will then be in the hands of the class
of flier who is ready to go up at any time,
in any sort of machine, and stunt over crdwds.
It is an obvious measure of safety that the
Government should immediately appoint an
Air Controller and vest in him those powers
which the States have expressed their will-
ingness to yield up. And it is clearly good
business that the Defence Department,
which is to have a lien on all Government-
employed machines and pilots upon the out-
break of war, should own the country's great
aerodromes —as natural as that it should
control the forts and barracks. What is
the sense in hedging and quibbling on ques-
tions which can only be settled one way in
the end?
*
From John Dawson, general sec. of the
M.L. Water Waggoners’ Alliance, on some
figures recently quoted in Tiie Bulletin :
The voting out of licenses from a limited area
does not pretend to put an absolute stop to personal
drinking, but it does reduce drinking and drunkenness
at least 80 per cent, and general crime very con-
siderably. Each individual year and the 10 complete
years have given ample evidence of these facts. The
ratio of convictions for drunkenness in the Dominion
is over 10 per 1000 ; in the No-License electorates it
is less than two per 1000. And while in the wet
electorates convictions of women for drunkenness
average one' per 1000, in the dry electorates
it is one in 25,000. A fact of great import-
ance is that 'we are not teaching the young
to drink in No-License electorates. The average
for the last 10 years has been two convictions per
electorate per year of persons 25 years or younger,
which is quite a contrast' with the wet electorates.
Moreover, the police agree that 75 per cent, of the
persons arrested for drunkenness come into the No-
License areas from the wet ohes in a state of
drunkenness. Whether the liquor comes in bottles,
barrels or in persons it comes from the license
territory.
Granting all that, the question remains
whether John Dawson has any right to
say to this abstemious paper that it shall
not have a whisky if it wants one. If
John Dawson has the right to interfere
with this paper's liberty in that matter,
this paper will have to claim an equal right
to interfere with certain liberties of John
Dawson’s- —the liberty to do certain things
with which he no doubt at present believes
nobody to be concerned but God and him-
self.
Some remarks from Achilles’ heel:—
The Acting Administrator’s recent assurance to
the South that there have been no strikes in the
Territory brought a needed gleam to our drab
Northern existence. Vesteys have 2000 tons of stuff
ready for shipment. The A.M.LE.U. wanted to do
, the loading at the meatwbrks, but the A.W.U. de-
manded the whole job. So the A.M.I.E.U. refused
to let the A.W.U. load at the works, and the A.W.U.
declined to do any loading whatever. In the result
it is now doubtful if the boats that were to lift the
meat will call.
The employees of the N. T. Times (the Territory’s
only paper) fired in a demand for, among other
things, yearly holidays on full pay, with fares to
S.ydney and back. The - proprietors said they
couldn’t do it, and the men left and the proprietors
and shareholders brought out the paper. The
A.W.U. first declared it “black,” and then offered
to buy the discolored Sheet. Most of the A.W.U. are
unemployed on account of Vesteys closing, and
hence in no position to launch out as newspaper
owners. Their proposal that certain money collected
for the erection of a Trades Hall should be com-
mandeered for the purpose of resuming the organ
of public opinion was blocked by the A.M.I.E.U.
and the A.S.E., which two bodies have all along
denied that there was anything amiss with the
journal’s color. The proprietors closed the con-
troversy by stating that they had no intention of
selling, anyhow. The A.W.U. thereupon blacklisted a
performance of “The Mikado,” given by the Choral
Society of Darwin, because the tickets had been
printed in the Times office a week before the original
trouble started. What with one thing and another
of the sort the local population has dropped 50
per cent, in the last 12 months: it is still dropping;
and every man who goes carries with him a grudge
against the place that will survive all the glozing
official telegrams in the world. Still, thank God!
there have been no strikes.


Empire Defence and the Safety of Australia.
Mr. Amery, Under-Secretary for the
Colonies, in giving an outline of the naval
defence proposals for the Empire, stated that
it had been decided to adopt “a new system,
consisting of a defensive chain, of which
each link will he primarily equipped to sus-
tain its own defence
Naval Defence is, to Australia, of grave importance, and calls
for preparedness with ships of war, guns and munitions.
Australia cannot risk her safety by dependence upon others
to supply her needs in these directions. The facilities for
their manufacture in case of necessity must be established
here. This makes essential the development, on a sound
basis, of the
Australian Iron
and Steel Industry
apart altogether from the economic aspect of the question.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Cocky’s political stocks are rising. He
holds 20 of the 32 seats won by Opposition
candidates at the Queensland elections, and,
with the accession of Scaddan and Lefroy,
both ex-Premiers, he is the strongest party
in the Westralian Parliament. In fact, Scad-
dan’s adoption of the new label is a
direct sign that he sees a C.P- Government
coming, and is ready and willing when a
leader is wanted. But the large man from
Moonta has boxed the compass so thoroughly
since 1916 that Cocky may prefer a less
changeable chief.
In a weepsome mood Sydney Telegraph
says that the increase of N. S. Wales expen-
diture on Government departments from
£4,000,000 to £9,000,000 since 1914, with
an increase to £12,000,000 or more loom-
ing, is terrible, but that a change of Gov-
ernment would do no good, all Governments
being alike. Still, it might be tried, for the
State has had no real change for a long time.
During ten years N. S. Wales has been
ruled by (1) Holman with the support of
Storey and Dooley; (2) Holman without
the support of Storey and Dooley; and (3)
by Storey and Dooley without the support
of Holman. Holman was Tweedlebill and
Storey is Tweedlejack. The most promis-
ing reform, after all, is to have the Premier
elected by the people and Ministers appointed
bv him from men outside Parliament —the
whole State to choose from except the 90
Parliamentarians, who would be barred'.
They are now, above all others, the folk
who should be barred, for the knack of get-
ting into Parliament is more than ever that
of blind adhesion to one side of the case,
loose and frequent declamation and ability to
make some sort of story out of the worst
lot of facts or to invent facts. Certainly
the course of preparation has nothing to do
with any capacity for running a lot of big
businesses with £150.000.000 capital; in
fact, it keeps men too busy to have a chance
of learning anything.
There is grave doubt whether a State can
declare its loans free of • Commonwealth in-
come-tax and some doubt whether the Com-
monwealth can declare its loans free of State
tax. The promise is made as an inducement
to lenders to take less interest, but its value
is uncertain. While the interest on local
tax-free loans was small no one worried.
When it becomes a mighty river of money
rolling untaxed past a hungry Treasurers
door the question will be raised for certain.
N. S ; Wales Treasurer Lang is offering an-
other £3,000,000 State loan free of Federal
tax. He admitted that there was a difference
of opinion, but gave his “personal guarantee,”
by word of mouth, that the position was all
right. So if the Commonwealth does come
down on the bondholders they have only_ to
go out to Lang’s estate-agency at Granville
and get a refund.
That zealous temperance reformer,
Father Lockington, Provincial of the Jesuit
Order in Australia, has come back from
U.S.A. convinced that prohibition has pro-
duced only trickery and bad liquor. His
method is to improve the quality of the
trade and build up a liquor-resistant moral
courage. No-license will get no help from
him.
THE WRITING.
That plodding and humorless person, the
statistician, has a habit of pushing into an
argument when he isn’t wanted. In his
unimaginative way he has spilt himself into
the Victorian prohibition controversy with a
set of figures showing that since the Licenses
Reduction Board got to work Victoria has
become less roysterous every year. For
example, the arrests for drunkenness
dropped from 12,436 in 1909 to 6237 in 1919,
and the convictions from 7025 to 3000. It
is a disgrace for the insidious statistician
to take away the credit that rightly belongs
to the Rev. Monkey-shave and to spike
Brother Greenwood’s gun.
The astonishing luck of J. and H. G.
Kirkpatrick, the Sydney architects, seems to
be deserting them. Not only has the
A.L.P. vetoed the arrangement under which
J. and H. G. Kirkpatrick were to be pre-
sented with a monopoly worth £40,000 by
the free-handed Sydney Labor aldermen, but
the Hunter’s Hill (N.S.W.) Council has
been making unkind remarks about two wqr-
service homes with which J. and H. G. Kirk-
patrick had something to do, as architects
for the Commonwealth Bank. The council,
in mentioning the circumstance, says things
about “second-hand material, departures from
specifications, gross negligence and serious
defects,” and suggests that it is a matter
in which Jocook might do something. Some-
body might also ascertain the views of J.
and H. G. Kirkpatrick’s supporters on the
Sydney Council; but seeing that “a few
d—d soldiers” are the sufferers, these wor-
thies are probably not interested.
Ryan. M.H.R., barrister, squatter and
Labor leader in the Reps., tried to get a
clause re profiteering into the Judiciary Bill.
He defined his position:—
I want to give the High Court and other Courts
authority to make necessary investigations into
profiteering both by local manufacturers and by
importers.
That seems to leave Mr. Ryan free of in-
spection in all his capacities. And if he
took to professional and habitual land-job-
bing he would again be free. In fact, it
leaves pretty nearly everybody free except
the hated Australian manufacturer. The
importer can be inspected, of course, but
then the manufacturer who is behind him
can’t. He is a long distance away, and
owing to the rotundity of the earth and the
low visibility is out of sight.
Vic. Premier Lawson put “No fresh taxa-
tion” high up on his programme. It is
that sort of thing which makes the Home
Rulers of Riverina incline to join Victoria
if they can’t get away from their mad
mother at Sydney otherwise.
When Brisbane woke up on State elec-
tion day it found the people’s Savings Bank
adorned with the printed legend, “Vote
Labor and Self-government.” How much
was paid for the scrawling of party adver-
tisements on public property is not stated.
Perhaps it never will be. There will be
no hurry to furnish the information, any-
how, for the crowd in office has been re-
turned on stuffed rolls for gerrymandered
electorates by a minority of the voters who
went to the poll. Self-government, in short,
has triumphed. A great victory has been
won by means of those grand old devices of
an enlightened democracy, loaded dice and
stacked cards.
In 1918-19 the loss on the Westralian
railways amounted to £359,794. Last year,
to curry favor with returned soldiers, the
Government made Colonel Pope Commis-
sioner—he had been clerk to the previous
Commissioner, and there were officers with
higher qualifications—and the debit balance
was £399,215. The new man did his best,
but he explains rather hopelessly that
salaries, wages and prices of commodities
are beyond his control, the rate book is
“largely” beyond his control, and no
financial policy has been established.
Large increases of wages and salaries were
granted in his first year, and they have
been added to since. For the present, the
Westralian railway unions are standing out
of Buckley’s federation, with its menacing
demand for “a share in the management.”
and no wonder. A man would be a glutton
to want a share in the management of a
concern that went £400,000 to the bad in
one year.
The N. S. Wales Chief Secretary has an-
nounced that various. Government fish deputs
along the coast are not paying, and will he
shut up. The Hotel Kosciusko has lost
£26,169 since it was first opened 11 years
ago, exclusive of interest and depreciation.
It has never paid in any one year, and is
maintained chiefly for a little set of ski-
runners and ice-skaters, who are rich enough
to support a club-house of their own. But
so far The Bulletin hasn’t noticed an
announcement} that the Hotel Kosciusko is to
be shut up.
John Storey, of Balmain, talked, of
course, about the “victory” of the Theodore
(late Ryan) Government in Queensland.
Said he: —
I cannot recollect any Government which has
enjoyed the peoples confidence lor so long a time.
The time is now five years and four months,
though there a.re doubts about the confi-
dence. The time (whatever may be said
about the confidence) has been beaten in
Rvan’s own State, in S. Aus., in Westralia
(by 54 years), twice in Tasmania, and
in Maoriland Seddon did eight years better,
and then only death .stopped him. In
England the Ry an-Theodore achievement
has been surpassed by North, Pitt, Liver-
pool, Melbourne, Russell, Palmerston, Glad-
stone (twice), Disraeli, Salisbury (twice)
and Asquith. Storey is very competent to
denounce Judd in fibe press, but he is in a
fog about the records of his own country
and history in general. Naturally, there-
fore, being a politician, he talks a lot about
these things. ' For the politician the rule
is the same as for the steamship captain:
when in a fog, make a noise.
Every Victorian elector who votes by post
to-day does so at a .cost of from Bd. to Is.
to the State. When penny postage was the
law Parliament decided to make postage to
the elector free for application forms and
for the postal ballot papers. Now that two-
penny stampage is in force McPherson may
be relied upon (after the election) to find
a way to save on this item in future.
Vic. Premier Lawson had the grace to
leave “decentralisation” pretty well out of
his programme, though some Parliamen-
tarians went to Portland and yearned over
it as a mother over her child. Lawson’s
loan bill before goiiig to the country was
for over £4,000,000, and the name of Port-
land appeared against £5OOO of this. So
the State’s grandest harbor may sink back
to its old desolation —unless the Western
District secedes and starts to build its own
connections.
Victorian teachers at the technical schools
are not singing the praises of the Lawson
Government this election campaign. They
were promised by Lawson that they should
get at least as good treatment as the prim-
ary schools service. But there are only
about 150 technical teachers as compared
with 6000 of the others, and their voting
power doesn’t worry anybody. Hence,
under the new grading a male Technical
goes from £216 to £264 per annum, whereas
a woman Primary goes from £216 to £312.
From the national point of view there is
no more important person in this country
than the technical school teacher; but to
the politician nobody’s job is half so im-
portant as his own, and his policy is settled
accordingly.
Chris Bennett’s nomination against Vic.
Premier Lawson for Castlemaine was Labor’s
retaliation for the National Federation’s en-
dorsement of the candidature of Henry
Raphael, a Billjim, against Prendergast,
Opposition Leader, at North Melbourne.
Some of the needed reforms which are
persistently left undone were stated the other
night by H. N. Taylor, who is opposing hard-
shell McLeod for the Daylesford seat in the
Vic. Assembly:—
If Great Britain can govern 40,000,000 people with
two Houses of Parliament, Australia does not need all
her present Parliaments and six Governors to govern this
young land, the cost of which was £726,000 for
last vear alone. Six different Agents-General Cost
£40,000 a year. We should cut out the State
Governors, abolish or partly abolish Hansard, and
allow the Chief Justice to preside over the Executive
Council; wipe out the Legislative Council, and dis-
continue free railway passes to members. One Com-
missioner in London should represent all the States.
The taxation and electoral departments should be
unified.
But, alas, the reforms mentioned at election
meetings hardly ever get any further.
Whether the candidate blesses Parliament,
or condemns it as unnecessary, matters not
at all. He is trying to get there, and when
he gets there 19 times out.of 20he “plays the
game.” The other time the party machines
lay for him; and the electors, instead of
standing by him for his invaluable inde-
pendence, lay him out.
THE ETERNAL CYCLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Duchess of Sutherland is selling her family
pictures and household treasures. She informed
a reporter: ‘I am honing for a good sale to keep
tne in bread and butter. Everybody is getting ter-
ribly broke. I never remember such times.’ — Cable.
Thick lay the dust on urn and bust in Castle
Stoneybroke ;
Its chatelaine with grief and pain felt well-nigh
fit to choke,
As in and out the bailiffs went,
While Baron Stoneybroke gave vent
To maledictions loud—
Directed partly at those laws
Which give patrician spendthrifts pause,
And partly at the crowd.
The crowd had come from field and slum to view the
baron’s shame;
Mean foes were there to sneer and stare at his dis-
tinguished name—
The name of Tudor Stoneybroke,
Which once the utmost awe awoke,
Was coarsely torn to rags
By a repellent auctioneer
Replete with eloquence and beer,
And rough as ancient bags.
“Who’ll buy? Wlio’ll buy?” The raucous cry was
heard from keep to moat.
“Five thousand quid!” The monstrous bid was made
by one whose coat
Of Russian sable, and whose hat,
A-gleam like fire, suggested that
Their wearer need not fear
The Baron’s fate. And this seemed true:
He was, as all hands quickly kne*,
Bill Slinks, the Profiteer.
No need to tell what next befell the priceless
household gods
Of Stoneybroke. They were bespoke by one of
Nature’s clods.
The portrait of his Uncle Luke,
And of the latter’s friend, the Duke,
The plate, the Elzevirs,
The house, the park—all, all were bought.
Solvent at last the Baron sought
The train to town in tears.
Now mark the fate which, soon or late, the richest
must befall:
With careless grin Bill Slinks moved iri to that
ancestral hall;
Abandoned making money quite,
And by hard spending day and night,
Blue ruin did invoke.
Till, after one last splendid dash,
He found himself as short of cash
As Baron Stoneybroke.
The latter’s life of manly strife had won all hearts.
The peer
Had gone to town and settled down to be a pro-
fiteer.
The same day Slinks his schedule filed
(While some bewailed and some reviled),
Lord S. abandoned toil,
And forthwith started, right and left,
To blew, with eager hands and deft,
His lately-gotten spoil.
N.S.W.
J. D.


THE DIRTY DOG.
HUGHES: “Can't think what’s happened to this animal. He used to be so tame."


The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd
PRODUCERS op , _ ~
LEAD— Soft Pig, Refined Assay (Bar and Granulated), Super-refined, Corroding,
Chemical and Antimonial.
SILVER —Refined (Bar and Granulated). . , .., ,
SPELTER —(Sold through Zinc Producers’ Association Pty. Ltd.).
ZINC DUST— (SoId through Zinc Producers’ Association Pty. LtdA-
and I , E ?riEg'ziNcSHDl:
BUYERS on Specially Favorable Tariffs 0 *
SILVER-LEAD ORES, LEAD DROSSES and ZINC DROSSES.
HFAD OFFICE - COLLINS HOUSE, COUUINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
HEAD urritn. H . L SHACKELL, Manager.
T. H. SEARS. Secretary.
Smelting Works and Refineries: Port Pirie. South Australia.
Coke Works: Bellambi. New South Wales.
BRANCH OFFICES:
SYDNEY:
25 O’CONNELL STREET.
R. N. KIRK, Agent.
LONDON: „ „ „
8 & 9 AUSTIN ERIARS, E.C. 2.
A. J- SMITH,
London Manager and Secretary.
ADELAIDE:
62 BROOKMAN BUILDINGS.
C. S. STOKES, Agent.
KOBE. JAPAN:
ORIENTAL HOTEL,
H. B. HARKER,
Representative.
“AUSTRAL”
REGISTERED BRANDS:
BHAS
“B.H.P. AUSTRALIA.”
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Lower the cost of production by using the famous
PIONEER
LEATHER
ELTIN
Made in Australia to suit Australian working conditions., and
guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON Ltd.,
Pioneer Tanners & Leather Belt Makers, 117 York St., SYDNEY
Interstate Agents:
VICTORIA: .1. & R. E.
Madder, Flinders Lane
and Market Street,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey,
Fry & Co., Edward
Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA: Charles
Davis, I,td., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
W.A.: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
S.A.: John McKell,
Timpson Street, Port
Adelaide.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Perdriau Rubber Co. (Sydney),
manufacturers aud retailers of rubber goods .
Deficit
(Goodwill
In Reduc- not reck-
tion of oned an
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Deficit. Asset).
1908.. £7,271 10 p.c. = £4,742 £2,529 £10,270
£52 added to goodwill account .. 10,82/
1909.. 8,050 10 p.C. = 5,801 2,249 8,073
£63 added to goodwill account . . 8,136
1910.. 10,184 10 p.c. = 6,757 3,427 4,709
£l3 added to goodwill account .. 4,722
Premium on shares .. 2,000 2,722
1911.. 14,645 15 p.c. = 12,500 2,145 577
£l2 added to goodwill account .. 589
Reserves.
Premiums on shares .. 6,878 6,289
To Reserves.
1912.. 15,397 124 p.c. = 12,160 3,237 9,526
1913.. 13,126 8 ~ ~ 10,222 2,904 12,430
1914.. 15,597 10 „ „ 13,000 2,597 15,027
1915.. 32,353 124 »> ». 16,250 16,103 31,130
June,
1916.. 16,436 124 ~ » 8,333 8,103 39,233
1917.. 25,906 124 „ „ 20,659 5,247 44,480
1918.. 30,873 124 „ „ 26,006 4,867 49,347
1919.. 38,048 124 „ „ 29,946 8,102 57,449
1920.. 43,667 124 „ „ 36,412 7,255 64,704
Like the two big Melbourne rubber-manu-
facturing cos., this Sydney concern has
developed rapidly since the war gave local
industry its opportunity. The Perdriau co.
was making good progress before the world-
upheaval shut out the imported article ; _ but
its old supporters in their most optimistic
moments could not have anticipated the
rapid growth of business that has taken
place since 1915. In that year disclosed net
profits were half as large again as those of
five years earlier; the £43,667 shown for
the past year is 4| times the size of the
1910 net earnings. The accounts are pre-
sented in abbreviated form, one line giving
what the directors claim to be the net profits.
But they regularly report that they have
appropriated portion of the year’s surplus for
reserves for machinery and plant and for
fittings and vehicles —£3000 and £2500, re-
spectively, for the past year. These amounts
are passed into the balance-sheet intact, and
since nothing has been written off the
accumulation for many years, probably the
appropriations are in addition to allowances
made for depreciation and for wear and tear
before the disclosure of the “net” profits.
So in the table above the accumulation has,
with some hesitation, been treated as a
genuine reserve. The £64,704 shown in the
last column is made up in this way :
General reserve .. . . ■ • £33,882
Machinery, plant, etc., reserve .. 38,393
and L. balance .. .. 7,429
£79,704
Less goodwill .. ~ . ■ 15,000
£64,704
When noting the growth of profits it is also
necessary to take into consideration the addi-
tional capital which has been put into the
business from time to time. The co. took
over an old proprietary in 1904, and began
with a paid capital of £40,008, £30,000 of
which represented the purchase price of the
old business (£15,00Q having been paid for
goodwill). This shows how the concern
expanded during the five years to Dec., 1915,
and over the, past 44 years (the balance-
sheets having been made up as at June 30
since 1915) : -
Dec., Dec., June, June,
1910. 1915. 1919. 1920.
Capital . • £70,000 £430,000 £274,820 £373,92/
Liabilities .. 14,792 42,712 98,353 90,239
Stock . . . . 42,181 81,015 225,561 225,768
Freeholds, plant, ...
etc 30,019 82,757 121,414 161,655
Book debts . . 10,433 48,940 100,373 180,748
Other assets .. 951 879 1,/62 2,944
That is a record of very solid progress. The
expansion looks even more impressive set
out in this way :
5 Years to 44 Years to
Increase of — 1915. 1920.
Fixed assets .. .. •• £52,738
More or less liquid assets .. 77,269 258,626
Total assets .. ..£130,007 £337,524
Liabilities’ .. •• •• 27,920 4/ ,527
Net assets . . . • £102,08/ £289,99/
Shareholders have done very well, dividends
having averaged 12 p.c. over the 94 years.
Meantime, taking the capital increases and
premiums on new shares into consideration,
the co.’s position was strengthened by £33,-UJ
of accumulated profits during the earlier five
years, and by £46,070 since; but these im-
provements take credit for the accumula-
tions in the specific reserves mentioned
above, and, of course, the actual betterment
deoends on the nature of those reserves.
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania :
Writ-
Dividends and ten- To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. off. serves, serves.
190*7’ .31,728 12 p.c. = 18,900 8000 4,828 153,80<?
Premiums on new shares . . 20,000 1/S,ouo
1908. .33,392 12 p.c. = 22,050 5000 6,342 180,148
1909 32 805 12 ~ 22,050 5000 5,750 190,903
1910 32 921 12 , 22 312 5000 5,609 196,512
i9n::il:o98,i4;;:: 4 000 w
1919 35 162 14 ~ ~ 20,724 9,438 214,3^4
1913! ! 36*058 14 „ „ 25,724 10,334 224,658
Premiums on new shares . . 25,000 -49,608
1914.-38,119 14 p.c. = 29,400 8,719 -08,377
1915 37 169 14 „ „ 29,400 7,769 266,146
1916. .38 212 14 „ ~ 29,400 4200 4,612 270,758
1917..40 195 14 ~ » 29,400 4200 6,595 277,353
1918 46 400 14 ~ 29,680 5000 11,720 289,073
1918 ''Re’s™ capi’tai’ised,’ £lOO,OOO 189,073
1919 41 336 10 p.c. = 30,740 10,596 199,669
1920!:46,467 10 „ ~ 32,250 - 14,217 213,886
From 1532 until last year the Commercial of
Tas. submitted accounts every six months:
but it has now fallen into line with most
other Australian banks, and its latest balance-
sheet covers operations for a full year, io
help comparisons the table above has been
remodelled to show results for periods of 12
months. This bank lost whatever big
opportunities may have offered by restricting
its operations to the Speck : it is the second-
oldest bank in the Commonwealth, yet one of
the smallest. Until recent abnormal conditions
began to inflate its figures, its progress over
many years had been very slow; the tight
little island got into still waters, and as
the big mainland banks were also operating
in the same field the Commercial of Tas.
found its figures slipping. In 1910 the bank
was holding less of the public’s money than
it had 20 years earlier. But as a result of
the huge Government borrowings and high
prices during recent years there has h e en a
spring in the figures, and compared with 1910
the Commercial is now holding 1.327,19.)
more deposits. Though the recent expansion
may not boar too close a scrutiny from the
viewpoint of sound national progress, the
larger volume of money (mostly paper) in
its care has helped profit-earning. Accumu-
lated surpluses have added 147,740 to the
bank’s funds since 1915. Gross profits, after
providing for bad debts and contingencies,
have during that period moved from £67,397
to £90,917; exes, are now taking £44,450
compared with £29,726 for 1915.
This comparison shows how the bank’s
business fell off between 1890 and 1910, and
also shows the recovery made during the
past 10 years:—
1890. 1910. 1920.
Notes .. .. £64,286 £65,627 Nil
Deposits, etc. . . 1,666,087 1,529,137 £2,456,332
Liquid assets . . 460,505 514,054
Advances, etc. .. 1,538,746 1,414,756 1,941,316
Premises... .. 22,815 51,124 63,282
Twelve months ago the management was
holding £4 10s. of the public’s money for each
£ of the bank’s own funds; but additional
deposits since given into its care have in-
creased the proportion to £4 15s. 7d. This
is a mild ratio, and means that, other factors
being satisfactory, the bank offers good
security to creditors. The demands for
accommodation have also become greater, and
at August 31 last not quite 40 p.c. of all
liabilities was held liquid, compared with
47 p.c. 12 months ago. To meet the
£1 474,488 of deposits not covered by liquid
assets at the latest balance, there were ad-
vances with a book value of £1,941,316 and
premises shown at £63,282. In other words,
ss. 3d. in the £ of the book value of advances
and premises would have to be lost before
depositors and other creditors need worry
about the security for their money. The
fact that the bank is holding only a small
proportion of the public’s money in relation
to its own funds, and since it is not so well
placed as the larger concerns to deal ex-
tensively in exchanges, it is unable to make
very fat profits for shareholders. Eighteen
months ago paid capital was increased from
£200.000 to £300.000 from reserves, and
though the 10 p.c. div. on the enlarged capital
gives shareholders a little more than the
former 14 p.c., the latest distribution repre-
sents a return of under 6 p.c. on total share-
holders’ funds in the business.
* * * »
A. and E. Ellis. Ltd., sawmillers and
timber merchants, of Sydney and elsewhere:
To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1912 .. £6,117 10 p.c. = £4955 £1162 £1,187
1913 .. 7,588 10 „ „ 5597 1991 3,178
1914 .. 8,616 8*„ „ 6120 2496 5,674
1915 . . 7,515 8' „ „ 6000 1515 7,189
1916 . . 6,840 8„ „ 6000 840 8,029
1917 . . 4,523 6 „ „ 4500 23 8,052
1918 .. 8,175 7£„ „ 5625 2550 10,602
1919 .. 7,738 7i„ ~ 5625 2113 12,715
1920 . . 10,995 10 „ „ 8750 2245 14,960
Paid capital at the latest balance was
£lOO.OOO, 25,000 new £1 shares having been
issued since the previous accounts were pre-
sented. The employment of these additional
funds during the latter portion of the year
explains the spurt that disclosed profits have
made. The new capital has gone in finan-
cing the more expensive and heavier stocks
and expanded trade accounts, in extending
city mills and joineries, and in acquiring
new r timber interests in N. S. Wales, Queens-
land and Noumea which will assure supplies
of pine. Except for the death of Alfred
Ellis, the pioneer of the business, the co.
had a good year: the timber trade has had
heavy demands placed upon it, for, despite
the heavy cost of building, thanks to the
artificial prosperity due to Government paper
flying around, and particularly as a result
of the operations of the War Service Homes
Commission, the building boom which began
towards the close of the war has been main-
tained. At one stage of the war it appeared
that the co. was in for a cold time: and the
directors thought so, too, for after the State
construction boom collapsed profits fell oil
and the div. rate had to be reduced from
10 to S p.c., and for the 1917 financial year
the 6 p.c. which was distributed was barely
earned. But in those dark days nobody
would have credited that the loan bubble
could have been inflated to its present size,
and that we would regard our war obliga-
tions with a spendthrift’s contempt for the
consequences. However, Ellis’s have got
back to 10 p.c. divs. again, the new capital
carrying that rate for the second half of the
term only. The extent of the recent activity
in the building trade, notwithstanding the
higher prices, is disclosed by ,the growth of
the book value of stocks and book debts
shown in this comparison of the balance-
sheet figures:- wl( , MO .
Liabilities .. .. £34,068 £22,150 £25,050
Fixed assets. . ” .. 61,398 50,207 57.087
Storks •• . . 24,028 37,905 52, 11 o
Book debts..' .. •• 27,002 17,731 28,020
Investments 4,000 3,000 3,000
Cash, deposits, etc. .. . . 939 3,27t> 3,083
Both disclosed profits and visible reserves
depend on the basis on which the directors
have appraised the co.’s assets. No 1 rofit
and Loss account accompanies the published
balance-sheet, and no inkling is given of the
amounts provided for depreciation, But
a comparison of some of the balance-sheet
entries over several years suggests that there
has been some hard writing-down; for in-
stance, in 1914 the Bellinger mill stood in
the books at £7500, and though a tram-line
has since been laid that enterprise is now
Set down as being worth only £4600; simi-
larly, during the six years the book value
of the Nambucca mill has been reduced frofn
£B5OO to £6250. If these curtailments have
been greater than necessary then profits have
suffered in consequence. As to stocks, all
that the directors say is that they have been
“carefully valued.” Over the >six_ years
£25,000 of new capital has been got in, and
meantime the surplus of more or less liquid
assets over and above liabilities has expanded
£40,373, notwithstanding that, as mentioned
above, various new interests in timber have
been acquired.
• * * *
E Rich and Co., Ltd., merchants, station-
supply people, etc. (head office in Brisbane,
formerly in Sydney) : . .
Available for
Sept.. Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1907. . £14,205 5 p.c. = £9,902 £4303'
1908.. 10,501 5 „„ 9,902 599 6,4/0
1909.. 8,009 5 „ 9,902 4,577
1910 . 10,196 5 „ „ 9,902 294 4,871
1911.. 13,778 5 „ „ 9,902 3876 8,747
IQI9 9 223 4 7,921 3,049
1913” 9 018 4 „ „ 7,921 1097 4,146
ml” 9 118 4 7,921 1197 5,343
1915. 15,687 0 „ „ 11,882 3805 9,148
1916. . 15,325 6 „.. 8,912 6413 15,561
1917 18 918 8 ~ „ 15,843 3075 l®’®?®
1918 27 451 10 19,804 7647 26,283
mf” 16 151 8”” 15:843 308 26,591
War-time Profits Tax, £4310 .. 22,281
1920.. 19,258 8 p.c. = 15,843 3410 . 25,696
This business has undergone considerable
change during the course of that table. Rich s
was at one time a London-controlled concern
with an extensive station-supply connection.
It had got into difficulties, and a time
was given a helping hand by Dalgety s. By
1909 it had shaken itself free from most ot
its old troubles, and Australian shareholders
were able to shift the seal of the com-
pany to Sydney. The management also
decided that it could do better if it allowed
someone else to attend to the requirements
of the small-station owner, and its activities
are nowadays mostly confined to wholesalers
and storekeepers, though some of the larger
pastoral cos. are still on its calling-list.
Further, most of the co.’s interests are now
in the Northern State, whither the head-
quarters were shifted over five years ago.
Shareholders have no reason to regret the
move north or the change of policy. Lur-
ing the past four years and nine months
(the balancing date was changed from Sep-
tember to June in 1916) disclosed net profits
have totalled £92,794—m0re than the total
for the previous nine years, when the co.
was making an effort to recover from its old
troubles. Averaging results—which is the
onlv way to get the right perspective of the
affairs of a co. in a line of business affected
by erratic weather conditions the five yeais
to 1915 gave shareholders a little over 4£
pc p a., and strengthened visible reserves
by only £4277; since 1915 8 p.c. p.a. has
been distributed and £16,548 has been added
to reserves. Last year’s severe' drought
curtailed earnings, and recent abnormal
trading conditions introduced hazards. The
1919 balance-sheet showed stocks of a book
value of practically double those of the pre-
vious balance ; but from the latest accounts
it is clear that the costly importations were
successfully unloaded.
This comparison of the balance-sheet figures
over two five-year periods throws furthei
light on the changes which have taken place:
'l9lO. 1915. 1919. 1920.
Liabilities . . £64,366 £19,816 £47,058 £25,114
Freeholds etc. .. 56,696 59,767 62,845 63,469
Book debts .. 101 244 88,681 53,080 56,997
Stock •• 121,218 56,588 130,147 93,614
Shares in other cos. 2,906 2,907 1,907 1,907
War Loan . . 33,125 38,881
Cash • •• 1,6:59 27,980 483 3,882
From the point of view of both creditors
and shareholders the co.’s present position
is much sounder than it used to me. Ina-
bilities are less than hdilf what they were 10
years ago, while cash assets alone have ex-
panded from £1659 to £42,763. At June
30 last ’there was a surplus of liquid assets
over liabilities of £170,167, and fixed assets
with a book value of £G3,469. Capital for
many year.s has remained stationary at
£l9B 037, and to represent each £1 share
there was, at June 30, 17s. 2d. in liquid
assets (including stocks and book debts)
and a further 6s. sd. in properties, plant,
etc. \ *
* * > ** *
The Bukit Kubu Rubber Estates, Ltd.
(office in Melbourne, estate in Malay Penin-
sula) : , w _ ,
Charged to Develop- De-
Jnne Loss. Dividends, tnent Account, ficit.
1910. £2272 £365
1911.. £266 3785 631
Profit.
1912.. 236 3332 395
Reserves.
1913 821 3738 426
1914:. 695 - . 2984 1,121
Premiums OH new shares, 4J2J0.. 1,331
1915.. 1145 1996 2,476
1910.. 7775 lOp.c. =£3ooo 1388 7,251
1917.. 8945 10 „ „ 3000 1017 13,196
1918.. 6727 15 „ „ 4500 667 15,423
1919.. 4890 26 ~ „ 7500 1152 12,813
1920.. 8274 25 „ „ 7500 917 13,587
The 25 p.c. div. paid for the year to June,
1919, was not nearly earned, b lit the co. did
so well during the past year Chat the latest
distribution at the same rate was easily
covered. The past year’s tappings gave
25,5551 b. more rubber than the previous
term’s, and though costs were up over id.
per lb. the average price of Che product im-
proved 3id. per lb. This Melbourne co.,
which became interested in Malayan rubber
11 years ago, began with 170 acres planted ;
the remaining 483 acres were gradually got
under rubber, and 380 acres of this area con-
tain trees seven years old. Production and
average prices and costs have moved this way
since tapping began :
Average price
Production. Costs per lb. realised per lb.
1913 .. 17,4501 b. 3s. B.ld.
1914 . . 30,9101 b. Is. 3.40 d. 2s. 3.35 d.
1915 . . 50,1301 b. Is. 1.78 d. 2s. 2.36 d.
1916 .. 103,0001 b. IO.OOd. 3s. 0.75 d.
1917 . . 143,6001 b. Is. 0.89 d. 2s. Bd.
1918 . . 186,0001 b. Is. 0.55 d. 2s. 3d.
1919 .. 200,1451 b. 11.35 d. Is. 7.65 d.
1920 . . 226,7001 b. 11.9fd. Is. 11.09 d.
The feature of that comparison is that costs
per lb. (which include 85 p.c. of general
charges) are not being reduced as larger
outputs are obtained. Not only is _ native
labor scarce, but Malaya is also feeling the
pinch of the world’s economic chaos._ Ex-
change relations with India and China are
strongly against the F.M.S. and h.c.l. is forc-
ing up wages. Nowadays the Government is
rationing the coolies, and rice alone is three
times its pre-war cost. However, during
the current year Bukit Kubu plantation-
manager M. L. Phillips anticipates harvest-
ing 240,0001 b. at an f.o.b. cost Singapore of
10.64 d. So, with the rubber market in
healthier tone, the co. should have another
good year ; and if prices continue to improve
there is a fat feast for shareholders provided
the plantation escapes weather troubles and
disease. Though £40,000 has been sunk in
the purchase, development and equipment of
the estate, paid capital is only £30,000. When
good profits began to show up shareholders
were not greedy: they were content with a
reasonable rate of div. and made the balance
of profits available for the management to
fully exploit plantation possibilities. But
they have done very well: during the past five
years they have had £25.500 of their £30.000
capital passed back to them by way of divs.
After the latest distributions the co. had
liquid assets (including rubber stocks at
valuation) totalling £8360, while liabilities
amounted to £5691.
* * * *
Of course, personally, they all regret the
unparalleled strike in which Britain is
plunged through the failure of the negotia-
tions with the coal-miners; but there are
hundreds of traders in 'Australia who can
find a silver lining to the -cloud. Prices
had begun to fall very .sharply—not only
cotton and wool and metal prices, but
freights also; and there were merchants who
were beginning to wonder what was going
to happen to their stocks. Some of them —
in soft-goods particularly—had already had
an unpleasant experience on the recent tem-
porary collapse of values in Japan, when
lines were written down nearly 50 per cent.
The present utter dislocation of British


Dalgety & Company
Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Sjcheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
- *
) The "M.L.C.”
Probate Contract*
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GARVAN,
Managing Director.
Since the introduction of electricity for lightihg
and power purposes, many homes in both the city
and country have been denied its numerous uses
owing to the inaccessibility of a supply. To over-
come this state of affairs, and permit everybody to
enjoy electrical convenience, the G.E. Home Light
and Power Unit has been developed. This outfit
consists of an engine, generator and storage batterv.
It is compact, strong, simple, economical to run
and practically automatic in operation. Write for
full particulars. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street,
Sydney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne.— Advt. [1
* * * *
Engineers and mechanics will find that with G.F.
Malleable Fittings they can do their fittings quicker,
saving time, labor and money. G.F. Malleable. Fi-
ttings, made from best British iron, are lighter and
superior to wrought fittings—have perfect threads—
geometrically correct —true to sizes, which range from
jin. to 6in. Over 6000 varieties. Sole Agents, Wm.
Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. , [3
* * * #
Pioneer Wood Pipe.— Copy of letter received
from Elmore Waterworks Trust, Elmore, 28th Feb.,
1919: “Dear Sir—Yours of the 19th inst. in regard
to pipes supplied to this Trust. The pipes have
been and are still in every way satisfactory, and are
quite suitable for our requirements. The cost of
maintenance during the six years of service has been
nil. If we were putting in any further pipe lines
your firm would certainly be favored with our orders.
Yours truly (Sgd.), S. Southam, Sec.” Send for our
illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Company Ltd. (H. 0.), Burns Bay Road, Longueville,
N.S.W. Contractors to all State Governments.—
Advt;
* * * *
Asbestos. —The right class of Asbestos is found in
serpentine areas. The Asbestos Slate and Sheet
Manufacturing Co., Ltd., “Asbestos House,” Corner
York and Wynyard streets, Sydney, use large quan-
tities, and prospectors knowing of likely deposits are
advised to communicate with this company.— Advt.
Inventors.— Have you a n idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castle?eagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colltson & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years - practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Mix your concrete with Leplastrier’s Patent “Multi-
mix” Concrete Mixer. Sizes from lj to 54 cubic
it. per batch. Drain your roads with concrete pipes
made with “Leplastrier’s” “Quickset” Pipe Moulds
t, 1 Australian-made by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.,
Head Office, Sydney'.—Advt.
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
, (London); Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineenng work; contractors advised; railway work
90 Queen-street, Melbourne.— Advt.
. T- H - .Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer valuing, organising, technical advice,
nie i alurgy V T dotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Me r ibourne!’’-ADVT CabIeS and Te,eg ' ams: “Remlap,
* • • .
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, \\ eights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rt f or- l° r write for particulars. IT. B. Selbv k Co..
G L eorffe St F eet (between Hunter and Bond
Stieets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.— Advt.
UNIFLOW STEAM ENCINES
120 to 1000 B.H.P. Low Fuel consumption.
Get particulars:
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
National 3lutual Buildings,
Cr. Queen & Collins Streets, Melbourne.
Box 1303 G.P.0., Melbourne.
’Phone, Central 4031.
&
boord&so*
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
Swift
Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney.
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS
PJ
m
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane. /
. CORRESPONDENCE INVITED,
trade will, they recognise, give them a few
more weeks to sell goods which have
been got in at high prices, and the fall will
be broken. But too much importance may
be attached to the recent falls in prices that
the cables have been starring. No doubt the
peak has been passed, and the general
tendency will now be downward; but
October -nd November quotations are not,
as a rule, fair guides. In retail business
in England these are very dull months; and,
though manufacturers may have plenty of
orders for delivery from January to March,
they are frequently scratching for orders for
October to December delivery, and that
generally means cut quotations.
* * * *
“Macquarie Street” has an idea: —
Sydney professional men—doctors and dentists—
have now a chance to combine and form a company
for the purchase of a home; for the swell medical
"shop,” Wyoming, 175 Macquarie-street, will come
under the hammer on October 28. This abode of
expensive consultants is . valued at somewhere about
£BB,OOO, and at this price it ought to be a good
investment for any company requiring a modest re-
turn for its money. In these days of plain think-
ing and high living, three guineas per week for a
single room is a mere bagatelle; but the future is
dark; and if the doctors don’t get busy the new
owners may decide to raise the rents immediately
after the old leases fall in at the end of January,
1021.
* * 4-
The law proceedings which the Federation
and Mt. Owen instituted when the Syd-
ney Stock Exchange delisted that co. was
advanced a stage the other day. Equity
Justice Harvey was asked to restrain the
brokers from excluding the stock from the
“official” quotations until the hearing of the
case. The co. thudded: the Court decided
that listing “depended solely upon the plea-
sure of the committee,” which could, “with-
out giving reason, determine that listing
should no longer continue.” Apparently
the matter now bbils down to the
settlement of individual contracts, and in
that connection the decision of the Stock
Exchange Committee to remove the suspen-
sion as from to-day—thus giving the over-
sold bears an opportunity to complete their
undertakings, if scrip is available —is sig-
nificant.
* * * #
The reconstructed Mammoth Molybdenite,
having no market for the metal it could win
from its big low-grade deposits, approached
the Warden the other day for six months’
suspension of labor conditions. Since the
present co. took over the tangled affairs of
the old one more than £3OOO has been spent
on mining and plant adjustment, but the
market was so sick that partial suspension
was granted a couple of months ago. On
this occasion the Warden granted three
months’ total suspension, but intimated that
next time the co. applied it would have to
make a more ample confession, “a lack of
respect for the Court and the public” having
been displayed in connection with the man-
ner in which the latest claim had been sub-
mitted.
* * * *
Star Gully, Tingha (N.S.W.), has got on
to the dividend list, a first Is. per share
being paid this week. Examination of the
new ground placed under offer to the co.
some time ago assures at least 12 months’
sluicing in 21b. ground, so the Board has
decided to exercise its option.
*** * #
A local syndicate is taking in hand the
exploration of a wolfram-molybdenite find
near Tottenham (N.S.W.). ’ Surface pros-
pecting has disclosed eight formations. The
ground was recently jumped, but the Warden
decided in favor of the syndicate. With the
rare-metals market still so feeble that big
producers continue idle, the immediate
chances of the Tottenham crowd are not
bright; but world’s prices are likely to
recover when the cheaply produced Asiatic
stocks are absorbed. Meantime Tottenham
will ascertain whether it has something
worth while.
* * * *
Mt. Monger (W.A.) is not likely to fool
the public much longer. Following on re-
ports of persistent high values in the Lass o’
Gowrie, the vendors demanded £2OOO cash
for a six months’ extension of the co.’s
option. In the interests of shareholders, the
Board obtained an independent report, which
showed the average of 37 samples to be 22
gr. The vendors challenged the accuracy of
this sampling, and another expert was sent.
From 14 samples in the No. 1 shaft, alias
“Golden Hole,” and in drives and crosscuts
therefrom at 112 ft., he got an average of
20 gr. From the No. 2 shaft workings 22
samples gave only traces; from No. 3 shaft
three samples went ldwt. 13 gr. No. 4 shaft
is in country and shows no values. The
average of the 39 samples from the shafts,
drives and crosscuts, showing gold was thus
only lOgr.
* * * *
The surface and underground men at Kal-
goorlie and surrounding fields have applied
to the Arbitration Court for more wages
and reduced hours. The unions are asking
for from 19s. per shift for unskilled labor
to 235. for skilled, with an extra Is. 6d. for
Yilgarn and 2s. for Hampton Plains. The
Court is also asked to reduce the working
week underground to 40 hours, and on the
surface to 44 hours. If these demands are
granted the extra premium which producers
have received for their gold lately will not
overcome their difficulties. The position of
some of the smaller producers is more pre-
carious than ever.
Herbert Daly and Bill Clark will return to
Westralia towards the end of this month, and
they are expected to infuse a little life into
the Hampton Plains market. Since Daly
left Kalgoorlie in June last, there has been a
steady exodus from the Plains, and it is now
a depressed settlement.
* * * *
The Golden Point Co., of Westonia
(W.A.), took up several options at Hampton
Plains but failed to find even an apologv for
an ore-body. It got one high assay, then
abandoned the ground. The co. has done a
little better at Westonia during the past six
months: 300 tons ore were treated for an
average of 18dwt., and there are about 1000
tons of similar grade stuff exposed in the
workings. However, Golden Point’s chance
of ever reaching the dividend stage is remote.
* * * *
Edna May Battler is about to start crush-
ing on its new show, the Trafalgar, nine
miles south of Southern Cross (W.A.). For
some years the prospectors worked down to
200 ft., but as they had to cart the ore seven
miles to a mill they naturally picked the
best. They did fairly well, but better still
by selling out to the Battler. The mine is
connected with the Goldfields Water Supply,
but juice from this source is so costly that
is difficult. Considering, the
average grade of the 12,000 tons ore exposed,
calls are more likely than dividends.
The resumption of shaft-sinking bv Lake
View and Star (W.A.) after a spell of eight
years recalls the time when F. A. Govett
called a stop at 1950 ft. in 1905. The lode
had proved unpayable below 1750 ft. in Lake
View, but about the middle of 1912 manager
Vail got permission to go down to 2100 ft.,
where he was rewarded by a good length of
ore averaging over 30s. Vail sunk five winzes
to depths ,of from 50ft. to 150 ft. on this
formation, and values ranging from a few
shillings up to £4 per ton were obtained. It
is now proposed to sink to 2300 ft. to see
what the old mine is like there. Lake View
and Oroya having sold its interest in the
.show, its representatives, F. A. Govett, Pel-
ham Clinton and J. A. Agnew, are no longer
on the Star Board. A. H. Collier, one-time
Adelaide broker, is the co.’s new chairman.
* * * *
L. C. Burgess is credited with the first
discovery of quartz-gold in Westralia. It
was made in 1874 near Roebourne, and Bur-
gess sent a specimen to the Geological De-
partment and a letter to the Colonial
Secretary claiming the reward of £5OOO
offered by the Government. He got no
money, Roebourne being considered too re-
mote for the authorities to send anyone to
investigate his claim. In the ’nineties the
reef from which the specimen was obtained
was worked and yielded a little gold. No-
thing further appears to have been produced
there since.
* * - * *
“Opodeldoc”: Meekatharra (W.A.), where
five years ago seven mines with a monthly
pay-roll of £lO,OOO were producing, is very
quiet and subdued these days, with only two
regular producers and one of them sick.
The gold specimens have been removed from
the bars of the pubs, and their places taken
by lumps of greasy red wool, while cattle-
men flood the bars where the miner used to
sing his quaint, sentimental songs and bore
out the face in half a shift. In Meeka-
tharra nowadays if you don’t wear a pair
of goose-necked spurs you don’t count.
Goose-necked spurs and steers and wool
will probably save the town.
• * * •
Langsuan is Melbourne’s newest interest in
Siamese tin. The promoting syndicate is in
Carroll s office, and a co. of 200,000 shares
of £1 each takes over, 100,000 fully-paids
going to the vendors, the balance being
offered to the public and to be paid to ss.
on allotment. The issue has been under-
written. The co. holds about 550 acres
north of Bandon, Siam. Osbourne and Chap-
pel, who were called in to check the syndi-
cate’s figures, give 170 acres a depth of
27ft. and a value of 1.661 b. per yd., with
prospects of further payable ground at
hand. A big slice of the £25,000 cash avail-
able at allotment will go in acquiring the
property and in testing costs. Osbourne
and Chappel, who have about 20 years’
Malayan experience to guide them, advise
equipping the property with hydraulic plant
to cost about £41,000, declaring that this
method should _be cheaper than dredging.
With tin at £250 London Langsuan’s seven
million yds. should give £550,000 worth of
tin, of which about one-fourth will be
absorbed by costs. Probably eight Is. calls
will get the show to the producing stage.
Present unknown factors, apart from the
future of the tin market, are the permanency
of the water supply and the available pres-
sure, the probable yearly output and the
amount of payable ground outside the tested
area.
Ruwolt’s, of Melbourne, have completed
the dredge for Ulu Yam, and it is now on its
way to Malaya* All going well, tin-winning
should commence about next June.
The Government report of mining in S.
Aus. for the first half of this year is just out.
State batteries treated 1100 tons gold ore,
and got £2900 worth. But the brown-coal
prospecting at Moorlands seems the most
important thing in sight. Keith Ward
(Director of Mines) admits that the stuff
has a commercial value now quite different
from that of the days when real coal could
be imported cheaply and whenever wanted ;
but he repeats that proper and special
methods by the consumer will always be
necessary if it is to be utilised with any
satisfaction.
“G.D.M.”: The Anglo-Persian Co.’s engi-
neers spotted the cause of the failure of the
Government boring at Vailala (Papua) a.s
soon as they saw the seepages and the bores
placed on top of them; and of course these
sites are to be abandoned. If it had been
done live years ago, as it should have been,
the Commonwealth would be about £lOO,OOO
better off. The idea now is, not to try at
places where the oil has escaped, but among
the domes and anticlines. And as sure as
death the Roma (Q.) natural-gas well will,
be ruined if they start monkeying with it
by trying to find petroleum where obviously
there is only natural gas. Boring for petro-
leum at Roma should be conducted on the
same geological horizon some distance from
the gas-bore, amongst the anticlines on the
nearest hills or folded country.
* * * *
Though present metal market conditions
are not favorable to the raising of new
capital for a wolfram go, Mt. Pelion (Tas.)
directors have decided to test the feeling of
shareholders at a meeting in Melbourne this
week. The co. has issued 11.135 shares of
£1 each, and all but £364 of unpaid calls
and calls lost on forfeited shares has been,
got in. Working account at July 31 was
in debit £4780, and only £l9 was left in the
till, with debts of £3lO to face. The direc-
tors laid out £1646 on plant, which has not
been installed pending the development of ore
bodies. The main tunnel is in 158 ft., and in
a 2ft. face wolfram occurs in bunches, with
some prospects of a continuation of values.
Pay veins show up here and there in other
parts of the property, but more definite assur-
ance of battery feed will be necessary to
justify the erection of the plant.
* * * *
About an unusual sky-pilot:—
Geologist Joseph Campbell has been very busy
among the N.Q. gold and tinfields during the past
four months. This sky-pilot geologist reminds old
hands of the Rev. W. B. Clark, whose work on N. S.
Wales southern goldfields will never be forgotten.
Though Campbell, after taking his Arts degree at
Sydney University, took orders in the Anglican
Church, he reserved the right to do scientific work ;
for some time he was locum-tenens for Professor
Smith at the Uni., and then was University Extension
lecturer, in geology, mineralogy and chemistry, and
published that useful little book, “Simple Tests for
Minerals.” Residents of Cairns also recollect his
assay classes, which he conducted free of charge;
and many a miner from the way-back had his ore
samples tested free. Lately he has been infusing
enthusiasm at the China Camp tinfield, where the
Lode Hill Co.’s workings are, and at Rossville, where
the Annan River Co. has properties. Then a friend
lent him a 10-ton schooner, and off he went as far
north as Howich and Noble islands, and while there
unearthed tin and wolfram. Everywhere he went
he lectured on minerals. It was Archdeacon Camp-
bell who made paper from blady grass, he manufac-
tures dyes and inks from tropical scrubs, and when
dynamite could not be procured early this year he
promptly turned to and manufactured a supply.
* * • * *
“J.R.D.” recalls a lost prospect:—
A bona fide lost silver show lies somewhere be-
tween the old Normanby goldfield and Blenheim sta-
tion, Bowen (N.Q.). In the early ’eighties “Con”
Tucker, owner of Blenheim, instead of using a
stockwhip, kept his packhorses moving by heaving
“gibbers.” He used to keep a supply of the
stones in his saddle-pouch, and one day, reaching for
ammunition, he came-across a specimen which assayer
E. B. Linden discovered went 10,000 oz. silver to the
ton. No one has yet located that outcrop, the
hearest approach (in locality) being the King
Solomon deposit at Emu Plains station, which was
found some 10 years later. This deposit, tetrahedrite
principally, assayed up to 2000 oz. to the ton,
whereas Tucker’s specimen was sulphide, rich gossan
and native silver. That there is an extensive silver
belt thereabouts is proved by silver ores having been
found during 1888 and 1889 at Flagstone, Emu
Plains, Ukalunda, Mt. Barker, Tent Hill, and at the
Sunbeam mine.
There was an amusing episode in -connection with
one of the many attempts to locate Tucker’s find. The
writer was at Eungella station in 1884, when one Josiah
Q. Piekersgill turned up humping bluey. He amazed
us all with his prognostications regarding Bowen
River silver. After a reviver he confided that we
were entertaining the man who had discovered and
been diddled out of Broken Hill. AVe immediately
formed a syndicate and employed Piekersgill at a
salal'y of £lO a week to locate Tucker’s lost iiiine.
A week later Piekersgill returned ’with a pack-
load of yellow “gibbers,” which he declared “stank
with chlorides.” There was no doubt about the
odor—we subsequently identified it as iodoform.
I quietly extracted a sample, but the nitric-acid and
common salt test gave no results: a clay pot in the
forge was equally futile, though seme excitement
was caused by Piekersgill having inadvertently
mixed some gunpowder instead of charcoal dust with
the fluxing mixture.
I decided to go as far as Brisbane with Piekersgill,
it being arranged that provided a good assay was
obtained I was to hand him a £5OO cheque as his
cash consideration in the proposed co. Others had
paid over about £75 in Bowen. In Brisbane a cab
brought me at a hand-gallop to a certain assayer’s,
and an immediate assay was arranged. When it came
through to me at Lennon’s Hotel that night Pickers-
gill was absent. He has been absent ever since. But
the strange thing was that Pickersgill’s hundred-
weight of gossany iron-ore assayed 24.480 z. of silver
to the ton; so he was a silver expert after all!


THE FORTY-HOUR DONKEY.
LITTLE AUSTRALIA: “Say, Dad, you’ll never reach it that way. But if you got down and took off your coat and put on your running shoes, you might overtake it in about five minutes.”


c
[ u
ja
m
JH O
>6«? -
ABBOTS
LAGER
C 7%P JJoKr Gue&ts
will Sftppreciato
BREWED FDOn
PURE HALTS) HOPS'ONLy
- - - »?<>':
?
sdg
Are you imprisoned in an invisible cage?
Do you experience that awful loneliness only
known to those who cannot hear?
Why remain out of it whilst your friends
are enjoying themselves?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
has been proved by thousands of Australasian
citizens with over 8 years of daily use, in
Business, the Theatre and Church.
It is recommended by the leading Ear
Specialists, and is in every respect a
PERFECT AID TO HEARING,
The Mears Ear-Phone is positively the small-
est, nearest and most scientific instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.
May we send you a little booklet, and
place before you our FREE TRIAL OFFER?
You will be under absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
387 George Street, Sydney.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARGING ROOF GARDEN.
Management F. T. CHEI2SEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
John Swanson, the new Gaud Mayor of
Melbourne, had a spell of stage-sickness in
his hot youth. He’ performed a part or
two with moderate success, but the com-,
pany that employed him went smash, and
the disillusioned stripling had to work his
passage back from Tasmania. Then he
broke into the building trade, and nowa-
days, when he surveys the City Courts, the
Working Men’s College, the Public Library
dome (Melbourne reckons it is the lax-gest
in the world) and the National Mutual
building, all monuments to his capacity for
big things, John doesn’t regret that the
company stranded.
It’s a topsy-turvy world. A niece of Ira
D. Sankey and a son of Jem Mace struck
Sydney at the same moment. The evangelist’s
niece is on the stagg and the bruiser’s boy is
preaching under canvas.
H. A. Wilcox, who was manager of the
Melbourne Tramway Co. and then of the
Tramway Board, did not long survive his
old chief, F. B. Clapp, who gave him a start
when he arrived from U.S.A. nearly 52 years
ago. He passed out on Friday. It is hai’dly
■a year since Wilcox retired, and he was look-
ing foi-ward to having an enjoyable time in
the sunset of life. The daytime had been
spent in an unrelenting struggle to make
dividends for his company.
Accepting a pi-offered inducement of £3OO
a year extra, Hyman Herman has joined
the Vic. Electricity Commissionei’s as engi-
neer of briquetting and by-products. He was
keen enough to see
that, at 45, he had
reached a dead-end
as Director of Geo-
logical Survey in
the Vic. Mines
Department. ‘With
his string of Uni.
degrees and his
knowledge of
brown coal, he had
only worked up to
£7OO, which isn’t
much more than
an expert hand can
make at lumping
bonedust or
slaughtering sheep.
This is the second
time Hyman has
left the Mines
Department.
LORD FORSTER ,
the new Governor-
General, as Rey-
nolds sees him.
Of the 145 candidates for the Vic. State
elections, 40 are farmers, 12 lawyers, 10
secretaries, six “gentlemen” and one an
■“entrepreneur.” The showman is Albert
iSchulthorpe, who runs a movie-theatre at
St. Kilda.
The missing Hobart schooner Amelia J.
was named after the popular daughter of the
owner, jam-king Jones. The vessel’s name
was to have been Alice J.. in honor of the
owner’s wife, but it Was discovered that an
Alice J. was already on the register. So
daughter Amelia’s name (now Jones no
more) was substituted.
Leonard V. Biggs, who seemed to have
become part and parcel of the Age, is resign-
ing his job of chief of staff to become organ-
ising sec. of the National Union —the body
that really owns Mr. Hughes. As fie is a
lay canon, Biggs may be expected to carry
out his duties conscientiously, but his staff
is very sorry to part with him, all the same.
John West, the secretary, is retiring to a
farm, and his tasks will be taken up by
E. H. Willis, an ex-mayor of Praliran.
John Watson, who was chairman of Mel-
bourne Stock Exchange in the late ’eighties,
passed out tragically the other day. He
was crossing the tramway track -at the inter-
section of St. Ivilda-road and High-street,
hesitated for a moment, and a motor-car did
the rest. Eight years ago Watson gave up
liis seat on the Stock Exchange to his son.
The news that Sir Claude de Crespigny
has been attempting to lure a relative into
a duel recalls his
second son, Claude,
who was in Syd-
n e y some years
ago. He ■ was a
lieutenant in the
R.N. and . the only
sailor who ever rode
and won a steeple-
chase at liandwick.
Sir Claude, who is
now 73, has
sampled most
sports in his time,
including balloon-
ing (in its early
days), big game
shooting and hang-
in g a condemned
murderer (in his
capacity of Sheriff
of Essex), but he
has not yet engaged
in a duel. He fin-
ished second in a
steeplechase
against profes-
sionals at Haw-
thorn Hill, near
London, at the age
of 64.
LOU ATKINSON,
Tasmanian Nation-
alist, one of the
oldest inhabitants
of the House of
Reps.
The death of Dick Skuthorp at Kurra-
jong (N.S.W.) rubs out an old-time
Bananaland squatter. Born at Kurrajong
in 1843, he crossed to Queensland with his
father in 1860 and bought station property.
Doing his own di-oving, he was the first
man to take bullocks to the southern mar-
kets without yarding them at night. With
his brothers Dick, Harry and Charlie, he
owned at different times the Urbana and
Glenormiston properties; and another held
by the family was Mexico, near Jericho.
Dick bred and raced some good horseflesh,
and was one of the best buckjump and all-
.round bush-horsemen, in West Queensland.
Holman is an unlucky name these days
for a politician to carry about -with him.
In Westralia J. B. Holman, who was Minis-
ter for Works in the Daglish Government,
has been beaten in the Murchison selection-
ballot. He is the sole remaining Labor
member of the 1901 vintage, and no man
could have worked harder for his long,
straggling electorate —when he was younger
he used to jump on his motor-bike as soon
as Parliament adjourned for the summer
i-ecess, and plug from hamlet to hamlet to
keep in touch with his constituents. But
most of the old hands have departed for
other fields, and the old member isn’t mili-
tant enough for the new generation.
Literature will get a lift if A. J.
Buchanan captures Melbourne for the
Nationalists from the pi-esent incumbent, A.
Rogers. Buchanan, has written four novels,
a general work, “The Real Austi’alia,” and
several plays; he has also been a leader-
writer at Perth and Melbourne, an editor at
Brisbane, and a Bulletin contributor. This
is his first attempt to become a law-maker,
although he has practised law now and then.
But Melbourne is a tough proposition.
N. S. Wales Labor M.L.A. James Fingle-
ton, just deceased, was a surprise packet.
The Waverley selection in 1913 was bound
to go to a Tramway Union man, owing to
the presence of a big local depot,
and the tipstei-s • all named the popu-
lar general secretary, A. C. Warton.
They quite forgot the still-more-popular ex-
driver. Even then the seat didn’t look much
good to Labor; but Beeby, starting out on
Beebyism, scored sufficient votes to create
a soreness that enabled Fingleton to beat
barrister Jaques, who couldn’t unite the anti-
Labor forces in time for the run-off. The
electors stood Jim down at the next election,
but three years later, in a welter contest
for Eastei-n Suburbs, and while dying on
his feet from consumption, he again surprised
everybody by gaining one of two Labor seats
in a five-member constituency. He was
the sort of member who never failed to secure
a State blanket or a food-order for a needy
constituent; and during his first term in
Parliament he also put up a record for the
number of divisions he attended.
The cinema isn’t nearly finished yet. Half
the beknighted medical Barrett’s first poli-
tical meeting in Toorak (Vic.) was a picture-
show—mostly designed to exhibit workmen’s
homes and other things as they are and as
the masterful eye-man thinks they might be.
D. F. Dwyei-, who is booked to succeed
the late Jim Fingleton as one of the Labor
members for Eastern Suburbs (N.S.W.),
has narrowly missed Parliament on previous
occasions. When the first N.S.W. Labor
Government invited the country to increase
its majority of one, he figured in a triangular
contest in Woollahra, which left the Liberal
Latimer first with a microscopic majority,
Dwyer second and Morton third. The last-
named talked of swinging his support over
to the Labor man in the second ballot, which
consequently looked a certainty for Dwyei-,
but it didn’t work out that way. Dwyer
went down by 47 votes.
Nowadays Warrenheip (Vic.) is a gift for
Labor, and last week E. J. Hogan had a
walk-over. Yet Hogan won the seat in the
first place by a lucky accident. A wild
and whirling union secretary at Kurrawang
(W.A.), he got a month’s holiday and re-
visited the home of his fathers at Bungaree,
with no thought of politics in his mind. But
while he was moving about among the
Mahoneys and Mullaneys and Maloneys who
cultivate his native heath, a vacancy occurred
in the representation of the district, and
there was no suitable local candidate avail-
able. “What about Ted Hogan?” it was
suggested. “He’s that foine young rnahn
from the West who do be among us at the.
present moment; he’s a Hogan, d’ye moind,
an’ knows ivery fut av ground from Bun-
garee t’ Buninyong.” So Hogan got the
nomination, and Hogan won the election,
and that was 10 years ago, and he has been
Hogan, M.L.A., ever since.
S’Walter Manifold, Uppah House Presi-
dent, has been put on Melbourne Uni. Coun-
cil by the Lawson Government in place of
the late A. O. Sachse. Manifold is a bar-
rister, but has never practised ; sheep made
a stronger appeal. He should be of material
assistance in raising the £lOO,OOO sought
by the Uni. He knows the people to tap.
and they won’t refuse. It wouldn’t be good
form.
Mackey, who has had a walkover for
Gippsland West (Vic.), is certain to be re-
elected Speaker. Following custom there will
be no break in the payment of his £lOOO
year from the date of dissolution (Sept. 30)
till his re-election (about Nov. 3). He is
a barrister —of the self-made variety—and
a law lecturer at the Uni.; and he owes a
good deal to the urging of his wife, a sister
of solicitor Bates, formerly of the Gillott-
Croker firm.
A parson’s son, W. K. Hancock, 8.A.,
lecturer in history in the W.A. Uni., has
gained the special all-Australian Rhodes
scholarship. Hancock began as a State-
school pupil at Bairnsdale (Vic.) when his
father (now a canon at Middle Bx-ighton)
was Anglican ai-chdeacon of Gippsland.
With the aid of a Government senior
scholarship he had a brilliant Melbourne
Uni. career, and is the ninth Rhodes scholar
Trin. Col. has sent to Oxfoi-d.
Of John Anderson, whose life flickered
out at Barcaldine (Q.) lately, it is recorded
that “his parents ari-ived in Melbourne just
a century ago, and purchased a portion of
land, now almost in the centre of Queen-
street, where John was born in October,
1831.” There was no Melbourne a century
ago, nor even in 1831. However, John was
old enough to have chased the ’weight in the
Ovens Valley (Vic.) and to have been a
pioneer of the Paroo. He had better luck on
the Pai-oo than Dowling and party, whose
bones he helped to find after the blacks had
picked them.
Dr. G. 11. Frodsham, who formerly bished
at Townsville, has been sent to Halifax- -
where there is a very comfortable vicarage;
the best in Yorkshire, in fact. No more
human pei-son ever wore an apron in Aus-
ti-alia, and if he ever strikes a bishopric
again the item will get a good place if one
of his old Australian press friends is hand-
ling it.
Lieuts. Hudson Fysh and McGinnes, who
surveyed the air-route across Australia to
Darwin and fixed up aerodromes and sup-
plies, and so enabled Ross Smith and Wrig-
ley to make their flights, are going into the
commercial aviation business in W. Queens-
land. With the backing of Fergus
McMaster, a Queensland pastoralist, and
others a company is being formed, and by
the end of the year they expect to have two
three-seater machines and a four-passenger
’bus at work in the Cloncurry, Winton,
Longreach and Charleville districts, with
headquarters at Winton. Later they want
to reach out into other parts of Queens-
land and over into the N. Territory.
From “The Oldest Inhabitant”:—
William Stutt, father
of the missing airman,
represented South Grant
from 1867 to 1871.
He kept a cafe oppo-
site the Theatre Royal,
Bourke-street, when
first elected; later he
took over the Austra-
lian Hotel on the
north-east , corner of
Russell and Bourke
streets, and re-named
it Stutt’s Hotel. It
was not a first-class
house, but did a fair
trade on Paddy’s Mar-
ket mornings and
Saturday nights.
Company-Sergeant-
Major JIMMY
DEWAR, crack
shot of the visiting
British Rifle Team
and winner of a
few dozen King's
Cups at Bisley.
John Dryden Hosken, a Cornish rhymer
whose work has attracted notice in Eng-
land, has to thank some of the Cousin Jacks
in Adelaide for assistance when he was up
against it. They paid his passage back
to England and helped him to find a pub-
lisher for his verses, some of which W. E.
Gladstone and Quiller-Couch had praised
in the last century. According to Quiller-
Couch, Hosken “possesses a delicate gift
cruelly marred by circumstances.”
The shindy over the Entertainments Tax
in Melbourne recalls that the first Parlia-
mentary advocate of this tax in Victoria was
the late Dick O’Neill, M.L.A. for old Man-
durang. For years O’Neill hammered at
two taxes, one on amusements, the other (by
way of rental) on closed roads. But
although Vic. was nearer financial smash than
at any other time in its history, the Govern-
ment could not be induced to levy on amuse-
ments, and the squatters raised such a dingo
chorus that it was afraid to claim rent for
the closed roads.
Vic.’s four surviving ex-Premiers have
all been in the limelight lately. Peacock,
the oldest, and Bowser the youngest of the
exes, have just been returned unopposed to
the Assembly. Irvine (Lieut.-Governor),
who stands on the list next to Peacock, has
been appearing in his gorgeous stage uni-
form and putting the new G.-G. in
the shade. And Watt, while preparing for
his scrap with Priminister Hughes, had
almost as many eyes turned on Federal Par-
liament House as if it were a prize-ring and
his name was Carpentier.
Tom Keegan, one of the 'two city Labor
members who lost their seats at the N. S.
Wales elections, is now an inspector for the
Necessax-y Commodities Commission. Jack
Cochran, his partner in misfortune, also had
a Government job for a while, but had
a difference of opinion and left. Coch-
ran got his quietus at a selection-ballot.
He has ability above the ordinary, and so
has Martin Hannah, of Victoria; it seems
to be a drawback in selection-ballots.
Norman Brearley, of Westralia, came out
of the war with two decorations (the
D.S.O. and M.C.) and a patched-up lung.
The lung notwithstanding, he has cleaved
the Western atmosphere for 600 hours, off
and on, without a mishap, and the other day
he put behind 150 miles in 100 minutes.
Bi-earley returned home with bright ideas
about exploring unknown Westralia by
aeroplane and establishing an aerial mail
and passenger sei'vice between the North and
the South. But he has found Premier Mit-
chell and the feckless Pearce rather less in-
terested in his proposals than mission blacks.
Lieut. Mclntosh, who enlisted in Westralia,
is planning a motor-cycle jaunt from Mel-
bourne to Perth, and if conditions are favor-
able he means to go over by aeroplane later
on—possibly in the old ’bus which carried
Parer and himself from London to Sydney.
But Mac will have to hustle to get ahead of
C. J. De Gai’is. That spry young man talks
of swooping over from Mildura to see how
things are shaping on the sheep-walk he has
pui’chased at the back of Albany. According to
Westralian papers, £200,000 is in process of
being expended on Jock Hassell’s old prin-
cipality : it is to be converted by De Garis
into a combination of Maffra and Mildura ;
a sugar-beet factory will soon ascend from the
waste, and the white population will be 5000
in no time. In fact, thei-e is no visible ter-
mination to the tail our cat has.
WHEN KNIGHTS WERE BOLD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Lieutenant-Colonel” Henley, M.L.A. for Ryde
(N.S.W.), has been made a K.B.E. for services
rendered during the war.
He heard Hold Hengland’s bugles blow ;
They thrilled him through and through ;
He hurled defiance at the foe
And sundry aitches, too.
* The sword our fathers wont to use,
It frisked about his feet
Till some official broke the news
•That swords were obsolete.
His tried and trusty cummerbund
He girded on, instead,
And Colonel of the Comforts Fund
Across the sea he sped.
The war years came and went, the tide
Of battle ebbed and flowed,
But where the steak and chops they fried
Our warrior abode.
Behind a parapet of plates
Intrepidly he stood,
While charging hordes of hungry mates
Assimilated food.
And when he rationed socks and vests
His grit would never fail;
And this his country’s thanks attests —
Sir Thomas ’Enley, ’ail!
N.S.W.
B.


The Studebaker “Special Six”
impresses the owner more and more
THERE is genuine, all-round worth in a car that
impresses its owner increasingly. From day to day
—from hour to hour even —he is in a position to
appreciate its merits or to detect its shortcomings. And
when his car wins his esteem —-actually endears itself to
him—there can be no doubt of its worth.
This is just what happens in the case of the Studebaker
“Special Six.” It attracts at first by its exterior beauty and
elegance. It strengthens its hold, daily, as the hidden
excellence of its mechanism becomes apparent.
The “Special Six” is a car of 119-inch wheelbase, with
29-horsepower Studebaker-de signed and Studebaker-built
demountable-head motor; improved carburetter, with “hot-
spot” intake manifold; artistic, torpedo-shape cowl lights
at corners of windshield; outside and inside door handles
and tonneau light with extension cord.
Aero-type Dixie high-tension magneto, a particularly effec-
tive and improved speedometer and 32 x 4 inch Goodyear
Cord Tyres throughout are further excellent features.
The beauty of the design of the e( Special Six” needs
only to be seen to win instant admiration. The ample
roominess and the richness of the Genuine French
Plaited Leather Upholstery make it a car of luxurious
comfort.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
Head Office for Australia : Ml Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
C. C. & M. A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
Tasmanian Motor Service, Ltd., Macquarie
Street, Hobart.
Bagot, Shakes & Lewis Limited, King William
Street, Adelaide.
New Zealand: Adams Limited, Christchurch,
Timaru, Palmerston North, Wanganui.
ds


r
Cool—for Summer Days!
Late October brings the first touch of Summer’s heat. Now men
turn to cooler clothes, necessary for comfort when the temperature
rises. The Peapes’ “No-Veste” Sports Suit is ideal for Summer
days.
A very cool suit made of “Warrigal” Australian Light Grey
Flannel is particularly appropriate, being light in weight and
unlined.
The Coat has three-button front, three patch pockets, half-belt at
back. Trousers: side, hip and fob pockets, and permanent turn-up.
No Test. A good suit for week-end holiday trips and for lounge
wear generally in city or country.
Ready to Wear: 70/- /
PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE.
Please state height, chest, waist and inside-leg measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
v INSTITUTE V
-/I/J3
‘(nos
aanoa
&
Complete
with
Case,
£l/1/-
We do not cater for any diseases
of the eyes. We simply correct
failing sight, which sets in at
about the age of 40.
Write for particulars and
our self-measurement form,
which will be sent on re-
ceipt of a post-card to
No money asked.
Pay post office
■when spectacles
are delivered.
Box 702 G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
HEADACHE Soon
Departs
gd
in the morning, when you
have Sal Hepatica handy.
A spoonful in a glass of
water—that’s all. At all
chemists, 2/-, 4/-.
MERfImCA
< \jf~!lexzscaxf
L. 262
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
TOO KEEN ON HER JOB.
TRIXIE : “Why on earth did Diana give up
Mrs. Stickybeak as her chaperon? I
thought she was most efficient .”
DAPHNE: “She was. Most. That’s why
Diana dismissed her.”
“D.E.”: I never heard of an archbishop
named McDougall (B. 7/10/’2O). and I sus-
pect that most R.C. bishops in Scotland
are immigrant Donovans and O’Flahertys,
like most of the flock. The same observa-
tion applies more or less to Lancashire and
Glamorgan; indeed, I find it difficult to
imagine an English Cahtholic prelate from
some proud and unbending old Tory family
like the Talbots or the Howards ministering
to the spiritual needs of the wild Hibernian
dockers of Liverpool or Cardiff. But for half
a centurv Westralia had a Spanish bishop,
and there are still parts of the country
where the parish soggarth is either a Spani-
ard or an Italian. The Spanish priests
are universally esteemed, but some of the
Italians, perhaps because of their chilling
indifference to Irish politics, are not popu-
lar. I recall one who was utterly detested.
Along with an unconcealed dislike of Irish
politics, music (he was an enthusiastic
musician), history—in fact, everything Irish
—he had an odd habit of bestowing his own
fore-name on the mostly-Milesian infants
brought along to him for baptism, and it
angered the faithful exceedingly. Mick Gil-
hooley and the missus would wrap up their
latest-born and request the padre to christen
it. “Ah,” Father Bersagliero would say,
“eet is a boy, a male eenfant. Ah-ee ’ope
’e vill grow oop an’ lah-eek da goot moosic
—nodda feeahfool terash lah-eek dey singa
dose Ahreesh consairts. Vot name-a you
gif-a heem?” Mick and Mrs. Gilhooley,
struggling with bashfulness and fiercer emo-
tions, are momentarily silent. “Ah, you
haf-a no fan-cy. Eet is goot. Ah-ee gif
heem mah-ee name. Eet is a goot name.”
Then, to the unconscious heir of the Gil-
hooleys: “Ah-ee baptise yo-a Giovanni Bap-
tista.” It wasn’t a populous district, but
there must have been five-and-twenty Gio-
vanni Baptistas among the Irish population
when Father Bersagliero went back to Italy
and was replaced by Father O’Rourke, from
County Kerry, to the exceeding satisfaction
of the parish.
X- * * *
Apparently little more is to be heard of
the shifting of Melbourne Town Hall, which
was one of the outgoing Gaud Mayor’s fads ;
in fact, the City Council intends to renew
the lease of the Victoria Coffee Palace site,
next door, for five years from May 31, 1921,
at a rental of £2OO0 —an increase of £9OO
a year—so it doesn’t look as though exten-
sions even are seriously contemplated. Aik-
man’s shop-window display of reforms will
disappear, but when he recovers his health
he will probably get a knighthood (say, on
January 1,1921 J as a memento of the splash
he made when the Prince was here.
“Sixenate”: Apropos of real-life matri-
monial tangles which would seem impossibly
far-fetched in works of fiction (B.
14/10/’2O), consider the story of a man who
wanted to explain his present domestic
position and set it- down in a statutory de-
claration :
In February, 1907, I married Mary Jane Dash,
with whom I lived in Hobart. She was unfaithful to
me, during my absence working on boats, and I
ceased to live with her. She is now Mrs. Asterisk,
having been living with another man as his wife
for the last 12 years.
In 1912 a child was born in Sydney of which I
was the father. It was registered in the name
of William John Blank.
In January, 1913, I married Patricia Jane Binks.
During my absence she went away to live with
another man. She is now Mrs. Hyphen.
In March, 1915, I married Hettie Maud Banks,
prior to departing to the war. A child w r as born
in February, 1916. On my return from the war I
found that she had been unfaithful, and I did not
return to her.
In August, 1918, I married Maria Edith Blank,
with whom I am at present living. .
The last experiment earned this Ulysses of
matrimony two years’ hard. The Crown
called it bigamy, but it seems a modest way
of putting it.
* * * *
A student sees an opportunity:—
Dr. Sawyer, of the Rockefeller Foundation, hav-
ing promised to come to the aid of the Federal
Government in disentangling some of the knotty
problems in connection with beri-beri, filariasis,
dengue, sprue, etc., carrying out his work on the
same plan as that adopted in the hookworm cam-
paign, would do great service if he would satisfy
inquiring minds as to why so many Brisbane children
suffer from what is diagnosed as the very worst
brand of lead-poisoning. They have foot-drop and
wrist-drop, and have to be splinted and massaged
for months and months; in some cases optic neuritis
comes on and causes partial blindness, while in
neglected cases this inflammation wastes the optic
nerves, with subsequent total blindness. Most doctors
adhere to the theory of Lockhart Gibson, that the
lead-poisoning is due to the youngsters’ habit of
sucking their fingers after meddling with paint on
wooden verandahs and railings. Children in N. S.
Wales are addicted to the same habit, and goodness
knows N. S. Wales has plenty of houses with painted
wooden railings and verandahs. Yet the hospitals
don’t contain any cases of plumbism. Why, then,
should Brisbane have a monopoly of this complaint?
The disease wants investigating properly in order
to check its ravages. Surely its true origin can be
traced! I, for one, never took kindly to the thumb-
sucking theory, and now is the chance for the
Americans to cover themselves with glory by finding
out why so many children are crippled every year
in Brisbane from the effects of lead. Or is it lead?
May it not be a tropical disease due to an unknown
germ ? That point requires clearing up, and the
opportunity is at hand.
* * *
“A Ghoul”: At last there is something
doing at Old Melbourne Cemetery. For long
past it has been the one public burying"
ground in the world from which the public
was excluded. If a man wanted to carry
flowers to his angel auntie’s grave he simply
couldn’t do it, because the side gates were
always, locked, and the main entrance —if
there ever was a main entrance —had been
long obliterated. , Now the place is open to
authorised coflin-snatchers, who are shifting
Melbourne’s longest-dead to Fawkner. The
Jewish portion, at the north end, w r as the
first to b‘e dug up, and Louis Hart, who had
been sleeping undisturbed since 1842, had
the distinction of the first exhumation. Mel-
bourne Old Cemetery stands high and dry,
and the honest old coffins are found in a
good state of preservation—very different
from “caskets” deposited in the cold damp
ground of more rekerky reserves. At St.
Hilda Cemetery an undertaker who had got
on in the world since his mother died decided
to open the grave and remove the old lady’s
remains to a more stylish portion of the
reserve. The coffin was found in the last
stage of decay: the lid broke open when it
THE COMFORTER.
“That horrid woman called me an old cat!"
“Never mind, darling. It’s not true. You’re
NOT Old.”
was being shifted, and lo! nothing was left
of the undertaker’s mother but a great growth
of hair! This gruesome story is intended
as a hint to people who like to think of them-
selves as remaining intact for a long time
after death. Choose a dry and sunny position
for your last resting-place, and beg your
friends not to make a garden of it. Be-
neath a carefully tended grave-garden the
deceased rapidly disappears. “Your water is
a sore decayer of your dead body,” said the
Gravedigger to Hamlet. Shakspeare had
discussed natural history with a sexton be-
fore he wrote that line.
* * » *
Sydney witnessed a fierce three-sided duel
in an auction-room the other day. In Pitt-
street there is an inconspicuous pub property-
which has a drapery store to the north and
Anthony Horderns’ to the south, and a
brewery co. was also interested. The duel
started off by somebody shooting £17,000 at
the rostrum, and there was a rattle of light
artillery till £33,000 was poured in by the
Hordern battery. The others thereupon said
they had arrived at Moscow, or words to that
effect, and the Hordern general retired with
a beer pump in one hand and a tinted bar-
maid in the other.
* * * *
“R.E.B”: The army airman also has his
fantods. I was on artilleyy-
observation work over Menin,
and had just started for home
after the relief machine ter-
minated my two hours’ patrol.
It was fairly cloudy, and while
jogging quietly along at about
8000 feet, I glanced round and
was startled to see, through
the clouds, another machine
diagonally approaching me.
Manoeuvring round for a posi-
tion to fire' at him, I found
he was doing precisely the same
thing. Suddenly he disap-
peared. Upon reaching the
’drome my observer inquired why I had
chased my shjldow; but I kept an eye on
clouds for a while before I was convinced.
* * * *
“Ozone”: Frankston and Hastings Shire
Councils have been contributing to the Spring
gaiety of the Victorian seaside. Somerville,
renowned for its annual fruit show, has been
deprived of the glory of having the monthly-
meetings of the shire council held there —by
a catch vote a majority managed to engineer
a transfer to Frankston where the summer
visitor frivols. Then the gaiety began. Some
village Higinbotham suggested that three
councillors, championing Somerville, should,
under a provision of the Local Government
Act, convene the whole council to Somerville,
and thus bring off a coup. But they forgot
something; and three councillors on the
other side countered by summoning the coun-
cil to foregather on the same day at the same
hour at Frankston. Sis councillors assembled
at each place, and that wasn’t a quorum.
Of course news of the comedy reached Frank
Clarke, Local Government Minister, and that
interfering person frowned and threatened to
split up the territory and tack it on to adjoin-
ing shires. Faced with this dreadful peril,
the performers are almost certain to bring
their brief season to an end.
* * * *
“Longun”: W. R. Munro, of Boombah,
St. George (Q.), desiring to purchase some
sheep, was taken out by aeroplane to inspect
a line of 7000 Darr River Downs station
ewes. The party, comprising Lieut. Roberts
(pilot). W. R. Munro (.buyer) and A. J.
Gilchrist (Dalgety’s agent), left Longreach
showgrounds at 11
a.m. on September 17,
and landed in Darr
River Downs’ five-
mile paddock (dis-
tance 40 miles) at
11.30. The sheep were
ready,, mustered in a
corner of the paddock.
They were inspected,
several photos were
taken, the deal was
completed and the
party arrived back in
Longreach in time for
lunch at 1 o’clock.
Had they gone by car
it would have been
necessary to have had
the sheep driven to a
yard, a.s a car could
not have reached the
paddock by reason of
an unfordable creek ;
and, anyway, a car
would have taken five
hours at least, whereas
the ’plane did it in
two hours. It was the
first time an aeroplane had been used in
Queensland —perhaps in the world —for a
job of this kind.
* * * «
“Whitehall” on the latest crop:—
The “War Service honors” which were issued last
week should drive a large-sized coffin-nail in a system
that grows more and more absurd. Scores of the
recipients are unknown both to the Diggers and the
general public. Others are known only as people
who did remarkably well out of the war. And
even more astonishing than the names that appear
are those that, don't. If George Brookman, of Adelaide,
who gave £15,000 to a School of Mines, is worth a
knighthood, what is the Crown’s estimate of the
services of James Burns, of Sydney, who has given
four times as much to the State, in addition to his
three sons, of whom one was killed and the other
two wounded? If T. Henley, of N. S. Wales, merits
a handle to his name because he lived for four
years in surroundings of greater comfort, pomp and
circumstance than he ever knew before, then what
rank in the peerage should be conferred on a Digger
field-officer who played the part of a real soldier on
Gallipoli and Flanders, while Henley was in Cairo
and London ? But Henley at least went abroad,
leaving his affairs to be attended to by others. Most
of his fellow-knights refrained even from that sacri-
fice. There is a great difference between leaving an
organised business and a professional practice. None
AFTER THE TIFF.
WIFEY: “Marriage soon ceases to be a mat-
ter of billing and cooing.”
HUBBY: “Oh, the billing part sticks all
right.”
of the Red Cross Commissioners gave up a bigger
income than Adrian Knox —who gets nothing. Dozens
of eminent doctors are unrewarded who sacrificed
everything to enlist; also other dozens who, though
they stayed at home, did more arduous work, free
of charge, than that accomplished by any business
man. The fount of honor, while spraying all and
sundry who had done little or nothing, could hardly
fail to sprinkle a few deserving cases; but in the
mass the list is a jest. It hints that the Crown is
not only blind like Justice, but stone deaf and
mentally deficient.
(Continued on -page 18.)
SPRING PRAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is a prayer for those who fret
Held in the meshes of routine,
For whom no curling wave breaks wet
In veil of silver and of green ;
Who feel the Spring work in their veins
When sap’s astir in all that grows;
Who hunger at the kiss of rains
And every vagrant breeze that blows.
Lord, Thou hast made the magic Spring
To resurrect the youth of Earth;
Grant to these souls a little thing —
Grant to them comfort and some mirth!
This is a prayer for feet that pass
Along the city’s dreary ways,
But long to feel the touch of grass,
And pass ’mid waving wheat and maize ;
That fain would tread on rough new roads
Beyond the rim where daylight dies,
But though the spur of wild Spring goads
Must work the treadmill men call wise.
Lord, pity feet that faint and jail,
Anoint them with some gentle balm;
The Spring has made the city stale,
Thy Spring has banished peace and calm!
This is a prayer for futile men
Who’ll never do the things they plan ;
Who sigh for deeds beyond their ken, '
But carry on as best they can ;
For men who strive to clutch a star
And keep their feelings locked away,
When their high goal proves all too far—
What time their hair is turning grey !
Lord, though I grant they be absurd,
A petty race of puling things —
Yet see how their poor souls are stirred
Since Thy Spring brushed them, with his wings!
VICTORIA.
DALE COLLINS.


THE PRE-EMINENCE
of the “PIANOLA” PIANO.
1 —: s rsar«T£
The superior art,site result. from P™ have aljiUty to repeat a „
rhe on t proper sequence, they lack the ' Pianola" Piano's greater respon-
teness lts quTity o? giving complete freedom to the temperament of the performer.
Pianolas are found in the following Famous Pianos:
STEINWAY, STECK, STROUD and English WEBER.
su-rrm r\ Tim Aam P/VO/P VO-DAY.
ONLY FROM
THE PIANOLA COMPANY PTY. LTD.,
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
252 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE;
384 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE;
58 RUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY,
38J f George Street, Sydney.
Please post me Art Catalog 81026 of
Pianola Pianos.
Name
Address
I
■
r r
'sw SM
I
1;
ft:::,.
ev
§»*
K
-•
1
kJ
£
/
' /j
B
1
V.V-.
m
MM
mm
ISIS
ji’ /
w
»/»| M .
' ■ .
f
ml
ff
Iff
v v/%
;y
■
ll*
■
Jk 4s\<*
,V;
urn
n
SB®S:
iiHi
11®
' 2?
a
: _■
1 7^
.77. v
Mi
M *
j
* *
SHlK^i : :^rSr:
S fv ,
...
V,' 'ski\
■ , 4y
. . 4
v
tfr*'**.
>* - / '&b mBKt imSwa
......... ... '
• •••'■
mmm
'■■i
■’/ jh jj
... ' a-.
'■> 1
It ; >
» i
E ' '
W •
/Jr il ’»/*'


Clerks ! Qualify and
Win Promotion.
Don’t wait for promotion. Earn it.
Master our Accountancy Course, win your
Degree, and success is certain. Thousands
of our students doubled and trebled their
salaries this way. You can do the same.
Write or call for a free copy of our book
“Accountancy”—shows you clearly how to
qualify —the cost, etc. Apply to nearest
address.
SR
zs
SEND FOR
THIS FREE
BOOK .
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON
MELBOURNE:
Aberdeen House,
S2B Collins Street.
The Accountancy Specialists,
SYDNEY:
London Bank Chambers,
Moore Street.
AUCKLAND:
Union Building?
Custom Street.
‘FIRST IN 1897—FOREMOST EVER SINCE/
STA(a
LA6ER
ONLY,
PLEASE.
No Substitutes.
tl
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
•Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America cr the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
AN EASY WAY OUT.
THE MAID: “ Why, you wouldn’t be able to
keep me in cigarettes!”
THE MAN: “But — er—surely you wouldn’t
mind giving them up!”
“Solomon Malaprop” writes :
The most remarkable literary discovery since the
finding of proof that Shakspeare was really himself
after all has been announced by a French lady
scientist, Madame Celine Renooz, or somebody has
invented the lady and used her improbable name
for the purpose. It is to the effect that the Old
Testament was written by a woman, Myriam of
Egypt, called Hathor, and afterwards modernised by
parties who are still at large as “Mary the Egyp-
tian.” A hairpin of very old construction carelessly
left between the leaves by the gifted authoress aroused
the first suspicion.
In old times long since given decent burial, woman,
it seems, was the ruler in Egypt and in other learned
spots. She ruled as a matter of course. Gradu-
ally man, a coarse creature with a pipe in his mouth
and living on a diet of beer and skittles, assumed
control along the Upper Nile, and woman’s kingdom
was crowded into the Delta. Then it was crowded
out of the Delta, and the last of a line of Pharaoh-
esses, Hathor or Myriam. fled, possibly in her night-
dress, with her preliminary books in an ark under
her arm to Sinai, where the Ten Commandments
boarded and lodged. Afterwards she and her fol-
lowers established themselves in Palestine, and the
centre of the female kingdom was Jerusalem.
TACTICS.
I don't know how I'm to get out of this joint—I haven’t got enough, money to non
the bill.”
“Try ordering another couple of bottles of fizz; then maybe they’ll put you out.”
At the division the Northern Kingdom (Israel)
remained under what John Knox called “the mon-
strous regiment of woman,” but the south (Judah)
Bolsheviked and became male. Literary forgers (imi-
tators of William Henry Ireland before he was born)
rehashed the old books, suppressed the story of
the Women’s Kingdom, invented Moses and Aaron,
and made Myriam a mere obscure sister of no
account, who was once sentenced to seven days, and
turned David the Queen into David the King. All
the Judges were revised into men, with the soli-
tary exception of Deborah, who probably hid her-
self during the massacre and reappeared “when things
had simmered down, to resume her place in the
fourth and fifth chapters of Judges', where she sings
like a nightingale to this day. She and David the
Queen (afterwards David the King) are the only
important singers in the Bible (Solomon didn’t sing ;
he only wallowed beautifully), and it is believed
they were both contraltos. After considering his
robust wickedness in the case of Uriah, it is impos-
sible to view David as a soprano, still less as a
falsetto.
It is an interesting tale which all arose through
the accident of Myriam leaving her hairpin in
Exodus. Still, the chronology of it isn’t easy to
sort out.
* * * *
“P. Pawnticket” : A swift love affair has
raced into the limelight. Adolphus met the
lady in the train coming from the moun-
tains and became quite friendly. When
Sydney was reached and Gwendoline had
gone he decided he would get that girl or
expire, so seeing her take a taxi he hailed
another, chased her to her home in Wool-
lahra and laid his heart on her aunt’s door-
step. She went to the theatre with him
that night, and married him next day. It
took two years to get the divorce.
“Bozzer B.”: One night when X Bat-
talion was in the front line at Gallipoli,
the Turks managed to throw out unnoticed
some additional wire entanglements. X
Battalion w r as relieved by Z Battalion, of
the same brigade, and when the Exes took
their second turn in they found this message—
it had been left in a conspicuous spot by the
Zeds: “To Z Battalion, Australians. Let us
know when X Battalion is returning to the
line. We want to paint the posts. (Signed)
C. 0., Turks.”
“R.E.B”: As a sidelight on Prohibition
in its own country, I see some Yankee
genius has invented an illuminated keyhole
and door-knob outlined with luminous paint.
They’ll be having magnetised hip-pockets
with steel-tipped bottles yet.
* * * *
“Dido”: The trouble broke loose in the
newsagent’s when the stout lady began to
dredge her 16-guinea bead bag for a penny
to pay for the Argus. She gave a gurgle
like a bath exhausting itself, and the act of
searching the bag degenerated into a panic.
“I've lost it!” she gasped. She placed a fat
hand on her bounteous bust and repeated
the statement, and a sudden pallor turned
the trace of touch-up on her cheeks to a
pale lavender. “I’ve lost it!” she repeated,
taking a higher tone. She shook out her
garments, she turned round five times, and
then fled in the direction of the ladies’ hair-
dresser’s establishment. In this shop she
repeated that she had lost it. “Fifty-seven
pounds fifteen shillings !"’ she cried. Shechased
round like a terrier on a scent, and then gal-
loped for the chemist’s at the corner. “I’ve
lost it!’" she told the chemist with the air
of a woman pronouncing her own death-sen-
tence. _ The chemist had seen nothing of
£57 155.. and the lady threw up her arms
in tragic despair. “Oh, my goodness!” she
said. A small crowd followed the dame in
her stampede to the bank. "I’ve lost it!”
she wailed to the clerk. She rushed to a
table, pounced on something, and gave a
shrill cry of relief—the cry of a woman saved
from despair. “I’ve got it! I’ve got it!”
She was holding up a pay-in slip for £57 15s.
“Ex-Dig.” : It was easy enough for some
men to “come through the war without a
scratch”: at the base depots in France there
were no flying shell-pieces or bullets. One
man I know who enlisted in 1.914 did not
get over to France till September, 1918.
But there were others who were with their
units from the jump, whose absences were
only the occasional leaves, sometimes
shortened by penalties or cashlessness, and
whose medical sheets -show “Casualties nil.”
I think it is impossible that they came
through without injury, even although
it was not expressed in terms of
wounds or actual sickness. The
wounded man always got sympathy,
and gets it still, although in many
eases he had a" rosier time than the
old die-hards who received no “buck-
shee” holidays, but toiled on, war-
worn and trench-weary, feeling some-
how that sooner or later they must
get the “knock,” and resigned to the
belief that it would be a “full issue.”
Lieut. “Bob” Humphries, of the Ist
Batt„ always insisted that when he
did get hit it would be a clincher;
and, in April, 1018, a shell came over
which settled him and the greater part
of his platoon. The war-weariness of
the 1914 men sometimes took utterly
reckless forms. When the Iluns wen-
surging forward near Meteeren old
Sam Wright threw himself right out
of the trench and fired magazine after
magazine at the advancing Ffitzes.
His platoon officer called out that
he \va.s needlessly exposing himself, but Sam
kept plugging away until, having emptied
his magazine, he paused to charge-up again.
“I want to kill all the blanket's I can.” he
grunted. “I’m sick of this flaming war!”
“Dr. Nil” makes a discovery :
I know now what chewing-gum is good for. For
many years I have wondered about it. I came at
last to the conclusion that Amurkans, to avoid
“toeking” all the time, had to either smoke or
chew. Chewing tobacco was killed as a national
industry in the Land of the Free by the late
Charles Dickens, when he described the citizen who
said “Don’t move, stranger; I reckon I can calc’late
my distance as well as any man in this country,”
and then shifted his quid ‘and spat on the deck a
few inches over Dickens's feet. But even then,
after that discovery, I could never understand what
use chewing-gum was to Australians. Then we got
a maid who was a perfect jewel. She commenced
by shutting the bedroom doors in the mornings when
she was about to use the pneumatic broom, and —well,
my wife said at the end of the first week that for the
first time in 25 years home was home, if not Heaven !
But, alas! even Heaven may have a leak in the
gas-meter. The jewel was musical! When she was
not whistling “Abey, My Boy,” or “That Will Be
Glory, Be Glory for Me!” or singing “You know very
well you don’t mean what you say,” she was beat-
ing eggs or mincing corned-beef to the tune of
“Oh, you great big beautiful doll! ” But at last
some agent posted to my city room a sample of
fwiggler’s Queermint chewing-gum. Now, what to
do with it? Throw it out of the window and risk
a summons from the Board of Health or —ha, ha!
I will wrap it up in carbolic gauze and take it home,
i did so and gave it to the jewel. A few hours later
Mrs, Nil said to me: “What has happened? There
seems to be something strange about the place.
There’s something missing—oh, where is the jewel t”
Of course I didn’t know, so Mrs. Nil went into the
kitchen, and lo! there she was, hard at work burn-
ing the sausages, but as silent as a sleeve-valve
petrol engine. Oh, joy! Oh, rapture! Now, I
thought, we have hit on a way to have a perfect
maid-of-all-work and at the same time be free from
“Abey” and “Glory for Me.” But, alas, no! In
a few days she discovered that life was a blank, and
she left suddenly. 1 think they are going to be
married; but there is some talk of his paj'ing her
seven-and-sixpence a week in the meantime.
“Hamer”: A Labor Day picnic-party
which had missed its last boat advertised its
presence on Clark Island by firing revolver-
shots. Years ago a girl was marooned on
the little rock in Sydney Harbor. She was
a city teashop belle, and bad gone to the
island with a swain who callously left her
there. When some of the teashop habitues
heard the story they plotted revenge, and
one cold winter’s night a young; cad who
struggled violently and used fierce language
was carried to the island and there deposited
minus his trousers. He was rescued, of
course; but his trouserless condition caused
him some agony before he arrived home. He
was informed by advertisement that his
purloined pants were waiting for him at
the teashop, but he never called.
* * * *
“140”: All Melbourne that thinks it knows
what’s going to happen is expecting a big
slump in prices—particularly in the shops
where fancy figures have been asked of late
for fancy goods. Several of the ultra-fashion-
able hatteries and gowneries are letting it
be understood that they are prepared to
accept new owners, and one firm is so
anxious to close down that it has offered
a star employee a bonus to stay until after
a sale is effected. Meanwhile, people are
looking hard at the Alpine prices, and it is
long since an October has been so dull. One
big shop which is not fond of sales is already
offering Spring models at thrilling prices.
HELPING TO PUT DRINK DOWN.
OLD LADY : "Are you goin' to 'elp in the
prohibition campaign against drink?”
OLD TIPPLER : “ Yes'm Pm hopin' to be one
of the ‘horrible examples'!”
THE DEVIL CHANTETH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Canon Barnes, of Westminster, expressed it as
his opinion that the doctrine of the Fall would have
to be abandoned.”
1 heard the Devil chanting a song of mocking glee:
“They’ve chased the globing serpent and grubbed
the Eden tree ;
His tale no more hath credit,
But, by the brain that bred it,
And by the fires of Tophet, they shall hear again
from Me.”
I heard the Devil chanting, his voice was soft and
low:
“What ho, my jolly stokers, stir up the fires, yo-
ho!
Though Eden deep is buried
Lest Adam’s brood be worried,
There yet be sulphur mansions where the hobs of
Hades glow!
“The Preaching Man who girds at Me he knoweth
not his trade,
What hold hath' he on millions if our Hell is but a
shade?
llow shall he meet the scoffer?
What answer shall he proffer
To them who say he diggeth graves to hide a
faith decayed ?
“When Tophet burned serenely in the bitter, murky
night,
A thousand fires on Earth were lit to help its.
hellish light;
And we who swinked and sweated,.
How deep were we indebted
To them who piled the faggots in the martyr’s holy
sight!
“If Eve were not of Eden, and Eden not of Eve,
How much of Eve and Eden shall this halting man
believe ?
With old tradition thwarted,
And holy (looks distorted,
What wonder if men query—What have Prophets up
their sleeve?”
I caught the Devil chanting: “But I’ve heard the
yarn before,
They buried Hell forever —and the next thing was
the War.
If Adam’s tale> be fancy,
And Faith a necromancy,
Why doth the Highest keep me chained upon a
sulphur shore?”
I heard the Devil wailing, a wail of “Treachery!
Why will these parsons batter at the roots Of them
and Me ?
Our altars have we builded,
Our shrines are g,ay and gilded,
And now they stamp in fury on the Serpent and the
Tree! ”
I heard the Devil laughing: “ ’Twill all come right
as rain !
He builds on god and devil whosoe’er would lift a
fane ;
. And when man hears the siren,
In some demure environ,
Behold the F ruit is dangling and the Serpent sings
again!”
QUEEEXSLAND.
P. AIREY.
MORNING ODORS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Faint with desire of many trees,
A sober wind got up at seven.
The morning stirred the simple bees;
The breakfast incense rose to Heaven.
Porridge and milk and sweets of rose.
Two chops of lamb and eucalyptus ;
What large god spread his eager nose
While appetite and summer tript us ?
Fine China tea and crisp new rolls
And water splashed on dusty gravel
The blended scents in crystal bowls
Are food for happy airs that travel
By little homes on shining hills
Of yellow grass with ti-tree frills.
x.s.w.
MARY McC.


BLACK .WHITE
ng
t
HU
f' ■
:
n&sii
SI
■ :
5*
K£
#
1
'
GUARDS.”
WHISKY
GUARANTEED THE PRODUCE OF SCOTLAND.
hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhmhhms
The Quality and Colour Never Vary.


EDGEWORTH
Smoking Tobacco.
1] B. TOWNS & CO., Sydney Agents.
LIGMOLLIENE
The Positive Skin Heaier
Effects Wonderful Cures
Here is a typical example of numerous won-
derful cures achieved by “LIGMOLLIENE.”
Mr. George J. O’Regan, Bayswater, Sydney,
writes: “For 10 years I was troubled with
‘Acne.’ Sought advice from best Australian
and London doctors. Heard of your ‘LIG-
MOLLIENE,’ although sceptical. Eventually
tried it with truly marvellous results, and
now am perfectly cured. I think people
who suffer from Skin Diseases are greatly
indebted to you for your wonderful remedy.”
“LIGMOLLIENE” positively cures Eczema,
Mild or Severe, all other Skin Diseases,
Piles, Ulcers, Boils, Barber’s Rash, etc., etc.
The reputation of a prominent firm of
chemists stands behind this genuine remedy.
Be sure and try it.
Prices: 5/6, 7/6 tin, or trial sample tin
at 1/6 from Proprietors, W. H. MALYON
and SON, Chemists, Sturt Street, Ballarat,
Yic. . . [4
The TOP-NOTCH Scotch
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Vista”: Model boat-building is indulged
in by the islanders up north, and races are sailed be-
tween the small craft. The boats are excellent models
of the pearling luggers, and of the smaller beehe-de-
mcr cutters, and are made with no other tools than
a knife, broken glass bottle and the leaves of the
sandpaper-tree. Bets are laid, generally in cowrie
shells, though 1 have seen real money change hands.
Generali}' the boat which is beaten a certain number
of times becomes the property of the man or boy who
owns the winner. I have seen a race between two
model luggers run from one island to another, the
owners of the competing boats being on board a
pearling-lugger which sailed with them.
“Dampier” : According to James Bonwiek,
an active and fairly reliable recorder of facts about
the old days, damper was not named after Dampier,
buccaneer and allegedly original compounder of the
substance. Damper, he says, was invented by Aus-
tralia’s first baker, one Bond, who arrived with the
First Fleet and died at Sydney in 1839, aged, so it
was said, 110. If the figures are right Bond was
09 when he came to Botany Buy, a fair age to
start life in a new continent.
* * * *
“Hannibal”: There is a superstition
among bushmen that lightning-struck trees ruin the
axe-blade. Except, maybe, in the case of iron-
bark, it is false. About two years ago a blackbutt
in our timbered paddock was struck. It died ; anil
we determined to have it felled for firewood. The
tree, which stood on an ironstone slope, possessed
two trunks of considerable girth. Together they
took only half an hour to fell, and the axeman
said it was the easiest job for years. But what is
the cause of a tree attracting the fluid? Js it any
quality of the vegetable itself? Those possessing
heavy foliage are rarely hit, I have noticed, even
though they may tower above their neighbors. Some
trees, by the way, though struck again and again,
live; others, struck once, die.
# * * *
“Bundibar”: During a recent ornitholo-
gical expedition along- the Maclntyre, in the vicinity
of Trigamon, I met an observant bushman who drew
my attention to a pine-tree. It had just cast its
pollen, which looked like a small cloud, the sub-
stance being 3ft. from the tree when I caught sight
of it. I asked my friend many questions. He called
the tree a black pine, and assured me he had often
seen one cast a cloud which looked like a mist in
the distance. I was fortunate enough, later in the
afternoon, to have him draw my attention to a
cloud on the side of a ridge. I could see no reason
whatever for this cloud being there, so decided that
there must be something in his theory that several
of the black pines had cast their pollen just at that
time, and that the breeze was taking it away in
a bunch. Has any Abo. reader had any experience
of this tree and this alleged habit ?
“Yarrum”: Once, seated behind a lawyer-
vine at Newbridge (NfS.W.), I had a bead drawn
upon a monster dog-fox 50
yards away. I was just about
to pull when I noticed a tiger-
cat gliding from a log. The
cat began to stalk the unsus-
pecting fox, and when it got
within striking distance, sprang
quite 10 feet, and landed fair
on Reynard’s back. The fox
twisted, jumped and rolled
over to dislodge the clutching
l.orror. His weight . nearly
crushed pussy, but she re-
tained her advantage by
squirming round, until the
two were locked in death
grips, face to face. The cat
was now better placed for
claw work, and shfe raked her
opponent fore and aft with
eviscerating strokes. The fox
was not idle, and both used
their savage jaws with energy.
Fur and froth flew fast and
far, and much of it landed
where I watched. After a bit
the fox collapsed, and sank
into an inert heap; and the
victorious and bleeding cat —
her work done for the present
staggered away to her den. A little rest, and then
the wild mother led forth five pretty little kits. I
saved my charge and left the happy family to its
banquet.
“Tocumwal”: It was on the Riverina
when the last mice plague was raging. A station-
hand came to town with his cheque, and after being
spruced up by the barber, with plenty of oil on his
hair, he proceeded to quench his thirst. Tow-ards
sundown he was dead to the world and lay by the
roadside, where he fell asleep. His hat fell off, and
when he awoke in the morning the mice had eaten
all his hair except one patch where his head had been
resting on the ground.
“Wessel”: Can any New Guinea expert
tell me what kind of firearms the Papuans on the
south coast tried to scare Captain Cook with when
he blew in there in 1.770, after leaving Cape York?
When Cook and his men landed, so he tells us, the
natives threw something that looked like gunpowder,
except that there was no report. The sailors on the
ships thought that the abos. had firearms, and Cook
says that he would have thought so, too, but that
there was no sound. Some of the natives carried
what looked like a short stick, but may have been
a hollow cane or tube, and they seemed to throw
the fire with this.
“Dido”: I wonder if there is any physio-
logical fact at the back of the common impression
regarding the exceptional tempestuousness of red-
headed people. One thing I know, the red bullock
is more prone to devilment than his plainer contem-
poraries. It is true that red bullocks are more
numerous than bullocks of another color; but after
living my whole youth in the vicinity of the Bal-
WHERE THE DANGER LAY.
What a lot of narrow escapes you must have, captain, in your seafaring life!”
“Well, when I was on the coastal trade I had many; hut on these long voyages I have
few —I am very seldom ashore.”
larat yards, at a time when cattle, now trucked,
were all “droved,” the impression survives that if
there was any trouble a red bullock was bound to
be in it. It was always the red bullock that
bolted ; it was a red bullock always that picked
up a kind of distemper in the yards after a hot
day, and came out ready to play old Henry with
anything he could get a horn into; if a school
kid was tossed a red bullock did it. A dairyman
will tell you, too, that red cows are more fractious
than cream, black, dappled or spotted. Red is cer-
tainly the fighting color. The redder the stallion
the more prone he is to eat up his keepers.
“Alex.”: We hatched 13 chicks from 13
eggs, despite the warnings of a superstitious neigh-
bor. Three days later two disappeared. I sus-
pected my neighbor’s cat and laid plans accordingly.
They had poison in them. After several burials
four more little chirrups vanished. As the supply
of neighbors’ cats was exhausted the mystery
deepened. Successive days added three further
victims. Early one morning, when the baker's
dozen had dwindled to two, I visited the fowl-
yard, and discovered a large white Muscovy drake
apparently choking. Grabbing him I forced open
the beak, and was astounded to find that the obstruc-
tion was one of the two chicks left. He will never
swallow a fowl again.
“Wandi”; Here and there in the dense
scrubs under the Macpherson Range heaps of broken
shells are found with a hard, fair-sized stone along-
side. This is the work of the dragoon-bird, or
noisy pitta, one of the most beautiful of scrub
birds, whose loud call of “Walk to work!” is heard
along the gullies. When it finds a snail it flies
with it to the stone to break the shell. The tooth-
billed bower-bird of northern scrub's also uses an
anvil. It is a wonderful mimic, too, and has a
playground or bower like its cousins.
“H. Wood”: “Bung” inquires whether
interbreeding amongst birds causes deterioration of
the species. It depends on what you are breeding
for. Amongst mammals bred for flesh or type inter-
breeding does not cause deterioration if the breeders
are properly selected. If it did our leading breeds
of cattle, sheep, etc., would not exist. Wild birds
must have interbred for ages without noticeable
deterioration. A high standard of vigor is kept up
by the dying off of the weaklings. Amongst tame
birds, such as poultry, interbreeding was practised
by the old breeders of fighting game to a wonderful
extent. Some English strains were interbred for
30 generations. To get size and type intelligent
interbreeding is the best thing for all breeds. It
fails when the fancier breeds birds lacking in vigor
because they are correctly colored. A doubtful point
is whether the number of eggs laid qan be increased
by inbreeding a strain of layers. We have not
sufficient data on the subject. Excessive egg-laying
involves a great strain on the vigor of the birds,
and neither wild birds nor game fowls are great
layers.
"Dinny”: “Stannum,” fearing frosts in
his orchard, asks (B. 23/9/’2O) what chemical to
add to fires to secure a healthy smoke-screen. Here’s
how the professional smoke-makers produce their
effects in moving pictures. They soak an old sack
in a weak solution of nitrate of potash (saltpetre)
and hang over a fence to dry. When it is dry
they roll it up in a sausage-like bundle, put a
match to it, stamp out the flame that imme-
diately presents itself, and leave the darned thing
to smoulder. One sack will smoulder all through
a night and produce a dense, noxious smoke that
will sometimes hang around for a couple of days.
More than one may be necessary to be effective over
a large area, but “Stannum” will find out the num-
ber necessary as soon as he tries one.
* * * *
“Steve Hart”; “A.R.W.,” replying to
“Gadgett’s” query (B. 9/9/’2O), says he knows no
better wood for axe-handles than sally. I don't
know any worse, for sally is a carrotty wench. An
Australian axe-handle industry is already well on
its feet, and the “Bulga” axe-handle from the Man-
ning River district is on the market. It is made
from water-gum—a splendid wood, both the red
and white, though my preference is for the red. But
THE TRIALS OF THE FORCE.
“Did you get that fellow’s number?"
“No; he was too confounded fast for me.”
“ Smart-looking girl in the back seat, wasn't
she?”
“My oath, wasn't she a stunner!”
the king of all axe-handle woods is white myrtle.
While on the subject, here’s a wrinkle. Bore a
small hole in the top of the handle about four or
five inches deep. Fill with vaseline. Plug tightly
with some deal wood, and you’ll think you are
using a cricket bat in a few weeks, it’s so springy.
(Continued, on page 22.)
THE TRAVELLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By valley height and river flat,
With early smoke and folk astir,
Upon a flashing horse astride,
There rode a robust traveller.
Behind him lay lit leagues of road,
Lit leagues of road stretched out before,
And, as he journeyed, maids and men
Cried “Hail!” to him from gate and door.
A glory in the cloudless skies,
On wings of gold upsoared the sun;
No need had he for whip or' spur,
For horse and he at heart were one.
And, as he galloped on and on
By rock and root, and bough and briar,
The bright elixir that he bore
Filled horse and horseman both with lire.
Above him, thrilled with life and light,
Gay birds sang gladly in the trees ;
To left right broad fields of wheat
Were nodding in the early breeze.
In lake and pool frond, limb and leaf
Lay mirrored clear as in a glass;
Knee-deep and belly-deep, he saw
Sleek cattle browsing on the grass.
Men heard him, as he galloped by,
In shearing-shed and timber-camp;
Before him, as before a wind,
Fled mists not born of marsh or swamp.
Where shadows fell and fires burned low,
And suffering turned warm cheeks to white,
He paused awhile, and at his touch
Pale lips grew red and dull eyes bright.
In secret ways beheld of none,
Foul things, more foul than snake or toad —
Foul things that poison, pale and chill —
Fell dead before him as he rode.
A CLEAR STATEMENT.
C AP'N: “ 'Ave 'ee ’most got through job
down below, hoys?”
VOICE FROM THE BOWELS: “ 'Most through,
Cap'n!”
CAP'N: “ 'Ow much more 'ave 'ee got for to
do?”
TOICE: “ All ice got do is finish, and then
'e'll he all done.”
And often did he put to flight
Death, grimly posed with upraised knife;
Where’er he paused a magic flowed ;
And flowing flushed, the veins of life.
’Tis he, that rider great and good,
That bearer of bright hope and mirth.
Who lights the heavens for mortal eyes,
And showers new glory on the earth.
’Tis he that, clothed around with light,
And power to brighten and restore,
Speeds ever on, while man and maid
Cry “Hail! All Hail!” from gate and door.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN


The Best Australian Authors
are represented in the
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Novels.
WRITE FOR A COMPLETE CATALOGUE.
Over 100 novels to select from.
ALL ONE PRICE.
Is. 3d. each. Is. 4ld. Posted.
LATEST SUCCESSES:
“HARRY DALE’S GRAND NATIONAL,”
by Jack North.
“QUEEN VAITI,”
by Beatrice Grimshaw.
“THE SAVAGERY of MARGARET NESTOR,”
by Jack McLaren.
Steele Rudd’s Selection Novels.
Arthur Wright’s Popular Sporting Stories*
A Few Novels by other well-known Australian Authors:
RANDOLPH BEDFORD:
“SILVER STAR.”
“BILLY PAGAN.”
“ALADDIN AND THE BOSS
COCKIE.” *
A. G. STEPHENS:
“BILL’S IDEES.”
AMBROSE PRATT:
“DAN KELLY—OUTLAW.”
“THREE YEARS WITH
THUNDERBOLT/’
“THE OUTLAWS OF WEDDIN
RANGE.”
E. J. BRADY:
“TOM PAGDIN, PIRATE.”
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO.
ITU 476 Ce <”*g e st <>
LflUa 9 SYDNEY.
Don’t forget your
Gillette
The “Gillette” is SAFE enough for use
on the fastest train or the roughest sea-
voyage—yet it is a REAL RAZOR that
gives a clean, close velvet shave without
any drag or pull. No stropping—no
honing!
Standard Set, in neat leather
case 38/6
WORLD OVER
*N9WN THE
’lit.
Gillette Safety Razor Co.,
Canada.
S. Hoffnung & Co., ttd.,
Wholesale Agents,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide.
The Leviathan
Men’s Summer Wear
Order Your
Cream Trousers.
Cream Flannel Trousers, well
cut and tailored, finished with
cuff bottoms and back straps,
all sizes.
SPECIAL, 22/6
Cream Serge Trousers, smart
and serviceable, finished with
cuff bottoms, side straps and
belt loops, all sizes.
SPECIAL, 25/-
//
V
With Collar to Match
FREE.
In Cambric and Cashmere Twill,
white or cream grounds, featur-
ing a wide range of block and
fine stripes, complete with soft
collar, with horizontal stripes.
Neckbands 14in. to 17in.
SPECIAL,
12/6
Teams Shirts.
White Oxford, with attached
collar, excellent wearing quality,
finished with pocket and wrist-
bands. Sizes 14in. to 17in.
neckbands.
SPECIAL,
12/6
White Pique Shirts, similar
styles.
SPECIAL,
11/6
Sox! Sox!! Sox!!!
White Cashmere, all wool — SPECIAL, 7/6 per pair
White Lisle, good wearing— SPECIAL, 4/6 per pair
Write for Illustrated
Summer Catalog.
BLAZERS.
Navy, with colored
cord on edge.
Sizes 3 to 7.
SPECIAL, 37/6.
Order by Post.
We Pay Carriage.
Leviathan
Pty.
Ltd.
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
3/6
EACH
BRITISH
G
O
tiMfkch
-sgsr-
-3/6
EACH
SOME SPLENDID BRITISH-MADE
“REGAL” RECORDS
From No. 32 Supplement Now on Sale.
All Double-sided, at 3/6 each.
G 7492
Wingates Band
. Wingates Band
( Wellington March
| Viscount Nelson March
G 7403
( “The Mikado” Selections
l “The Siege of Itochelle”
Selections
Wingates Band
Wingates Band
G 7494
Band of H.M. Welsh Guards, with. Xylophone solo
Band of H.M. Welsh Guards, with. Xylophone solo
I,e Souvenir .
Jongleur Galop
G 7495
J Pussyfoot March
t Tony Spagoni—Foxtrot
Alexander Prince, concertina
Alexander Prince, concertina
G749G
Eric Randolph, tenor
Eric Randolph, tenor
J Once Again
( The Garden of Your Heart
G 7497
J Give Her a Great Big Kiss for Me. G. H. Elliott,
Where the Blue-eyed Marys Grow..G. H. Elliott,
“Tlie Chocolate-colored Coon”
“The Chocolate-colored Coon
G 7498
[ Dardanella, Foxtrot (Dance Music)
[ Wyoming Waltz (Dance Music) ..
Regal Dance Orchestra
ltegal Dance Orchestra
G 7499
j Beautiful Ohio .
I My Baby’s Arms
Geo. Diamond, baritone
. •. Geo. Diamond, baritone
G 7500
; In the Land of Beginning Again
[ Tulip Time
William Thomas, tenor
. ' William Thomas, tenor
G 7501
Somewhere in Some Corner of the World • •••*■*-•
The Kingdom Within Your Eyes •
Doris Ashton, soprano
Doris Ashton, soprano
G 7502
( You’d Be Surprised »’-
( To-night by the Firelight Glow
Stanley Irving, tenoi*
William Thomas, tenor
G 7503
s Let the Best of the World Go By -1-
I Every Time I See You 4
William Thomas, tenor
William Thomas, tenor
G 7504
Sand Dunes —Onestep (Dance Music)
Hindustan, Foxtrot (Dance Music)
i
Regal Dance Orchestra
Regal Dance Orchestra
G 7505
Delectable —Novelty Dance (Dance Music)
Zanana Waltz (Dance Music)
T W Thurban’s Dance Orchestra
Tl W. Thurban’s Dance Orchestra
G 7506
Dor in a Valse —Novelty Dance (Dance Music)
The Tango Waltz (Dance Music)
' \V Thurban’s Dance Orchestra
\ :w! Thurban’s Dance Orchestra
G 7507
( Eulalie—Valse Tyrolean (Dance Music)
( The New Empress Waltz (Dance Music)
T W. Thurban’s Dance Orchestra
T. W. Thurban’s Dance Orchestra
Full Lists and Catalogues are obtainable at most hi(Tb-elass Music Stores, or
from the undermentioned firms :
SYDNEY. N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House. Raws on Place.
MELBOURNE. VIC., and TASMANIA. —Messrs. Hugo Wei tlieim Pty ,
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd.. Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Utd., 123 Pirie Street.
PERTH W.A.—H. R. Pirth. Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON. N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH. N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 243 HI gb Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. A Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per day, or from
Four Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic. f
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA—CoIIins House, Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES—SB Pitt Street, Sydney - - - Phone City 2677
QUEENSLAND—CampbeII’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane Phone 2382
C-A-O
BOND’S TRIPLEWEAR HOSE.
Made in Australia.
AN IDEAL HOSE,
combining wonderful wear with beautiful
appearance.
Retail Selling Price, 12/11 per pair.
“Melos”: Years ago the wild and woolly
outback dwellers came once a year to town to get
shorn. Scissors did the job at a reduced rate, as lie
“got it back on the sweepings.” The bulk of these he
sent to the city ; the rest found its way into country
bed-ticks, horse collars, etc. Then came the itinerant
barber, and being a negligent kind of a person he
shore in the open, with the result that the “wool”
was purloined by nesting magpies, etc. I have seen
two cornsacks of human hair waiting a buyer; but
the business seems to have quite faded out.
* * * *
“Vista” : Re snakes biting themselves.
Do the blighters know they’re doing it? I’ve seen
two brown snakes caught in wire-netting after
dining out in the fowlhouse. They got so far and
could get no farther, and then each accused the other
of playing the fool. One word led to another, and
they got to it, till the biggest chap found a mouth-
ful of tail and proceeded to poke it down after
the chicken. It wasn’t till he’d swallowed half of
himself that he twigged the other joker laughing
at him. I’ve seen snakes biting themselves while
held by a forked stick, and when entangled in wire-
netting—going through and then turning back —
but I’ve never known them die from the effects of
their own poison, as “Ino” (B. 30/9/’2O) says he
has. Perhaps I’ve never waited long enough. “The
sooner knocked on the head the better” has always
been my creed.
“Moonie”: “Chiahualiua,” replying to
j “Zanthus” (B. 26/8/’2O), says that the late Robert
! Clarke may frequently have bred a white Calf from
two black cattle. According to Mendel’s theory,
supported by “Chiahuahua,” it is physically impos-
sible to do so. Black being a dominant color, the
progeny of two bldcks can only be black; of two
whites, also a dominant color, white; of a white
and black, blue roan, being a mixture in equal
quantities of the two colors ; of two roans, roan be-.
' ing a recessive color, 50 per cent, roan, 25 per cent,
white and 25 per cent, black. If the roans are red
roang, got by mating red and white, substitute reds
in the progeny for the blacks and the numbers will
still stand.
NOT SO HOPELESS, A PEER ALL.
COCKIE (to applicant for work): “Can yon
do anything with a shovel?”
APPLICANT (dubiously and after thinking it
over) : “I dunno," (Suddenly brighten-
ing up) “Oh, I suppose I could fry a
piece of ’am on it."
“Delhi’': I recently came across a satin-
bird’s bower, .and found every blue article'that had gone
missing from my camp for the last three months.
The loot consisted of three knobs of blue, one blue
castor-oil bottle, three blue-lined envelopes (with the
lining up) and every blue feather that I had .plucked
from two parrots.
SOMETHING TO START WITH, ANYWAY. -
CUSTOMER: “ Think they’re worth mending?”
BOOTMAKER: “ Dunno. Laces seem all right.”
“Six and Plight” : The objection to most
waterbags is that after a few months’ use water
put into them acquires the same musty flavor it has
when taken from bottles not freshly filled daily.
The reason is that the shape of the usual type of
waterhag prevents it being easily and thoroughly
cleaned. To make a bag which will not be open to
the objection mentioned, take a square of canvas
and sew to each corner a wood or metal ring. To
the rings attach cords, and drawing all the cords
together hang to a hook in a beam. Fill water into
the receptacle So formed, and dip out as required.
When the bag needs cleaning take the canvas down,
spread out flat, and scrub with a brush. If the
water in the bag is not always as fresh as an oyster-
fed politician it will be because of the owner’s
laziness. The bag possesses an advantage which
will be appreciated by water-waggoners. A bottle
of indigestion cure can be kept in the receptacle, and
it will be cold, too.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: Do tiger-snakes climb
trees ? There’s one that won't. Sitting under a
friend’s vine and fig-tree one hot, clear, moonlight
night 1 heard a commotion among the leaves of the
big vine trained along the wall plate of the verandah,
and a number of birds lit out as if they just hated
to be there at all. A few minutes later 1 noticed
what looked like a piece of rope * about 3ft. long'
dangling from the vine. After a second look I
tore a picket off the verandah railing and banged
that piece of rope , almost into the next parish. It
proved to bo a tiger-snake 4ft. 94in. over all.
“D.R.P.” : In the selection of queer sites
for nesting I would like to enter Mr. and Mrs.
Wagtail for first prize. Their address at the pre-
sent time is a cross slab 15 feet down a well on
Mr. McMahon's property, via Burren Junction
(N.S.W.). The well is 105 feet deep and eight
feet by four feet surface measurement, and is par-
titioned in the middle. At about 15 feet down
there is a horizontal gap of about four inches in
the partition, and on the top of the slab below
this gap Mr. and Mrs. W. constructed their nest.
When I saw it it had a clutch of two. I have since
been wondering whether, when the brood arrive,
they will be able, in their first flight, to flutter
to the top like ma, or whether they will flutter
to the water below, a distance of 80 feet. In my
30 years of bush life I have never before seen a
nest, constructed in such a position that the young
birds would have to make a direct!}’ upward first
flight.
..* * * »
“Haka”: Henare was toiling for me, and
after the first two months I noticed that the output
from the poultry department had diminished by
half. Suspecting Henare I mentioned to him’ one
morning that only a few of the fowls seemed to be
laying. Henare then revealed to me his masterly
knowledge of the psychology of the hen. “Py
cripes, poss,” he says, “him hen all-same peller owe
me ten pop—him plurry well forget.”
“L.M.”: Cooper’s Creek is the incubator
of hardiness. The niggers’ dogs killed all my
poultry. In revenge I sniped 17 (Jogs. But there
is still a mangy hound that runs old Methuselah a
dead heat in the immortality welter. I have punc-
tured him with bullets from end to end, yet he is
as frisky as an insane billygoat. Has anyone a
spare long-range flame-thrower?
“S. Tretcher”: “Wind Bag’s” big-fish
story (B. 29/7/’2O) is quite true. When he first
told me the yarn I was incredulous, and said that a
whale, could not shift that island. But when he told
me that he had a whale on for bait I closed up.
* * * *
“McNorth” : The archers of the Gulf of
Papua begin their training when children.
Almost every village nipper possesses a
miniature bow and a sheaf of arrows, and
practice goes on all the time. A favorite
target, suggestively like the head of a
man, is an unhusked cocoanut rolled down
the slope of the beach ; but fish and birds
often fall to the youngsters’ skill. The
bows are lengths of bamboo split down
the centre so as to give one surface almost
flat, and strung with native fibres twisted
together, or ribbons of lawyer-cane. Ex-
cept in size they are replicas of those
used by the grown-ups; but the arrows
are merely reeds with or without fire-
toughened points. Dad’s arrows are often
elaborate affairs, tipped with cassowary
or other bone and ornamented with carved
designs that take weeks to complete. His
fighting bows are sometimes as much
as seven feet long, and a healthy, well-
nourished brown brother behind one of them can
obtain surprising results as to both range and
accuracy.
“L.M.” : To the discussion of the canni-
balistic habits of our black brothers I introduce my
mother, born here (Maryborough, Q.) 68 years ago.
She heard the tale told often by her father ; and it
was a comparatively recent circumstance when she
first heard it. Period, about 1848. George Furber
was stooping down squaring a piece of timber, when
one of the numerous blacks he employed' about the
place crept behind him and with an axe struck him
on the back of the head. The blade, however, did
not penetrate the skull, but slid down his back. He
at once started for Brisbane and the nearest doctor
(230 miles distant) on horseback, just arriving in
time to save his life. Within three months he
turned up, apparently all right, excepting that he
carried a twist in the neck. After this Furber never
went about without a loaded pistol. One day at
Palmer’s stores, where a number of blacks were
employed, Furber was seen hastening up. He came
to the store, and, fixing on a certain black, shot
him dead, saying, “That’s the man who tried to
kill me!” The blacks present conveyed the body
about half a mile away, and that night Dr. H. H.
Brown, Palmer and several others found a fair num-
ber of adult aboriginals around a fire with the body
of the slain black cut up and being cooked on the
coals. Some of them watched the feast, which
plainly was greatly enjoyed. No females or children
were permitted to be near, but pieces were put in
dilly-bags, apparently for them. Furber, by the way,
was found dead in a pine scrub, where he was
cutting timber, murdered, a couple of years later.
He had been speared and tomahawked along with his
son-in-law.
“A.C.T.”: “Stannum” (B. 23/9/’2O)
wants to know about “smudging” for late frosts.
During three years’ experience in 'California orchards
1 never used any chemical to make the smoke hang
around. If there is sufficient smoke it will do the
trick, as there is generally no breeze. I have used
ciude oil, coal, wet straw, and shavings and tar.
The crude oil is the best orchard-heater ; the shavings
and tar the best smoke-producer. A fire-pot is
necessary to every other tree at least, and you must
light up as soon as the glass hits 32 deg* If the
cost can be smiled at, a coal fire in a wire basket is
the best here, as it will raise the temperature of the
orchard 7 to 10 degrees, as against 4 to 5 by smoke.
If “Stannum” irrigates and can conveniently run
water down the furrows on a suspicious night, its
presence during frost will raise the temperature 3 to
4 degrees, which is often sufficient for late frosts, as
the low damaging temps, rarely last more than a few
hours in the early morning. Smudging is no beer-
and-skittles game. It involves lots of work and more
expense; but Ive seen the cost saved many times
over if it is thoroughly carried out. Those “dad-
gasted \ anks made us fellows hop over pretty slick
about 3 a.m. so that they might rake in double
money per case when the small chaps were frozen
stiff.
* * * *
“Somaroy”: “Rusty’s” par. (B. 23/9/’2O)
on the Caulfield gum-trees reminds me. The walls of
the public-school baths at Chatsworth Island, Clarence
lliver (N.S.W.), were composed of ti-tree saplings,
sharpened and driven deep into the river-bed. Being
only a few miles from the ocean the river at Chats-
worth is always salt, save in times of “fresh”—very
salt. Yet within a few weeks of the completion of
the baths there was a healthy growth of suckers on
a big percentage of the saplings.
* * * *
“Coriuga”: Regarding the tenacity of
pi'ickly-pear, 1 know a more surprising case than
“Zanthus” mentioned. I saw a selector kick a small
seedling out of the ground while fencing. He tied
it on the top wire by the roots, and left it hanging
there. Some time later he died and the land passed
to absentees, who didn’t trouble about pear-eradica-
tion. In three years’ time that pear commenced
fruiting and bore several pears. Ten years later
it was still hanging there, and quite a large family
was growing beneath it.
* * *
(ru in a : If “Rusty” is an expert in
forestry I don’t want to quarrel with him, but 1
should say that cuttings of eucalypts (especially
box sapling's) will grow more readily than he
supposes. When the Katoomba (N.S.W.) sewerage
scheme was laid out some years ago, stakes of this
timber were used to mark out the pipe line in one
place. All began to grow, even those driven in
upside-down. Some were removed later, and a
few died next year, but most of them are now fine
young trees.
SANCTUARY.
DOONDI NELLY (with open arms): "When
you in trouble you always come to you
poor old mother"
"Jim Carew” : The land crab, a frequenter
of some parts of Southern Gippsland, is a nasty
kind of settler. He is a pinkish yellow, a little
over two inches long, and in shape much like the
yabbie of the Murray River. He digs a shallow
round hole about three-quarters of an inch in diameter
and pushes up the earth in a ring round the hole.
When the rain arrives it gets into the hole and
gradually works a hollow underneath, thinly covered
with a layer of earth and grass. I have found these
traps over a foot in diameter and a foot deep, and on
several occasions have seen horses severely injured
through treading in them.
* * * *
■‘Jim Carew’’: Was it a custom of the
Monaro blacks to bury Binghi’s favorite dog with
him when Binghi lost the number of his mess? I
have unearthed several skeletons down that way, and
in almost every case there has been a dog’s skull
alongside.
HE HOLDS HIS LIQUOR WELL.
[For The Bulletin.]
“Among the curious exhibits was a bloated Central
Australian frog, w.hich makes thoughtful provision
against drought. It stores water in its body, and
then burrows down into the mud. where it remains
until the dry season is over.” —Au(j.
How wonderful is nature ! She
Still holds out hope for us.
In time we may adapted be
To meet our fortune thus,
And, filled, lie dreaming 'neath the grass,
Absorbed, until the dry spell pass.
The trouble is, with me and you,
We take our load of grog,
But cannot store it up as do
The camel and the frog.
If man can learn just how he may
Restrict consumption—hip hooray !
To call the toping bloke a tank
Is an absurdity.
That’s what he’s not, and he would thank
His Providence to be.
This bloated frog alone takes rank
As just the sublimated tank.
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


: . ■■■■■—m> ”■ ’ . . .. *■ ■m i
.
/ • . ■ • •• •-.'••• ✓ '
• ■;.
*
■s**i ■
mrn- S
*..f
4*
.m
• i'
■ f: ; ;. -
i x 7 ‘-Jffeitli
* ■ -a
tel!
.... .
m ¥%m
■
J :L
WmbiiM:
&M *
■■■ i ■ ■
,-4;
S
■
Mi
47-7 y '■ "; ; i v
HHni
'i
4**-' 'S**\ l < % fS&Pfm
V -r
:: v ..-jdF . „
i IISS V--",i
■
r / * *
- 1-f
mmmi
■m.
AWAY IN THE BUSH
is where tyres are put to the test. Rough
tracks, and in many instances rough driving,
soon determines the worth and value of a
cover and its suitability for hard service “out
back.” With the nearest garage scores of
miles away one needs and looks for depend-
ability, and it does not take the average
country motorist long to find out which make
best stands up to requirements. In all parts
of Australia “ Railroad ”
D
D
are far and away the most popular. You see
them everywhere—in fact nearly every car or
motor cycle you meet carries the well-known
Red “Railroad.” Hundreds of thousands ot
them are in use, their reliability, their great
mileage, absence of chipping and blow outs,
being appreciated. The demand grows, and
no wonder, for no cover equals the Railroad
for quality, service, and value. Made m all
popular sizes. Leading garages can supply.
* * *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
AND N.Z.
ALL STATES


■ A".■:
Fig. 2.
Buckeye Excavators
and Ditchers
Make a Perfect Trench
at One Cut
They are the direct product of twenty-five years experience
in the building of excavators. During that time more than
3000 Buckeye Excavators have been placed in successful
operation. Therefore, it is not an experiment or gamble to
invest in one of these machines. They have a long-established
reputation as unexcelled in the essentials of productive
efficiency, durability and economy of operations. Buckeye
Excavators are designed to dig vertical and sloping bank
ditches as required
FOR IRRIGATION DRAINS, DRAIN
SEWERS, WATERMAINS, GASMAINS,
PIPE LINES, CONDUITS AND SIMILAR
WORK.
Fig. 2.
Figure No. 1 illustrates a Buckeye Vertical Bank Trench Excavator, with
cased shoe,, digging wheel.
Figure No. 2 shows a sloping hank ditch cut by a special No. 9 ditcher
designed specially for irrigation purposes.
Figure No. 3 is a waterline trench cut by a No. 5 Buckeye.
■ V;
-
H
HI
r-. : .
:
m'
% «■ W’V
: :■
Fig. 3.
Full particulars will be supplied on application to the
British-Aus tralian Machinery Co. Ltd.
Union House, 247 George Street, SYDNEY;
Collins House, Melbourne; Union Bank Chambers, Brisbane.
The Limerick
As a means of torture the Limerick is no
longer in favor, but the peculiar kink in the
verse form has its points. Its growth and
history have never been honestly told; but
to a good many who lived in the days of
Gladstone in England they must be well
enough known. The rhymes, in the form
in which they afterwards invaded drawing-
rooms, were set invariably to obscene humqr ;
and there was a chorus of an equally
obscene kind about a visit to Limerick. Stu-
dent groups in railway carriages employed
their time between stations in repeating
rhyme after rhyme of a sort that the repres-
sion of the Victorian age had made shame-
fully popular; and as each tried to outvie
his fellow in daring uncleanness coupled with
hair-scorching blasphemy, the whole company
took up the Limerick chorus by way of
applause. Often and often the parson, stand-
ing in an officially cheerful attitude on the
local railway station, blessed the dear boys
who were having such a good time, and heard
the train speed on to the roar of “Won’t you
come up, come up,” in blissful unconscious-
ness of the sort of thing the young reprobates
were really singing. Twenty years later
Mabel and Ruth made Limericks of a harm-
less kind at church bazaars, and honest
tradesmen used them to advertise their
wares; but among the countless thousands
who knew the origin of the name and verse
form, there appears to have been not a
single informer even unto this hour. Dear
maiden ladies have contributed to newspaper
pages mainly devoted to jam recipes and
crochet-work strange conjectures as to the
connection of the Irish town with the wliolly-
English jingle; and all the time persons
with bald heads were carrying round tile
church collection-plates and keeping a devout
silence on a matter they could have explained
so well.
The Limerick form itself has a peculiarity
in that it forces humor in a way unknown
to other stanzas. That it once forced a con-
clusion that was merely staggering in its
suggested wickedness does not matter; the
Limerick of mental commerce had got to have
a smile hidden about it, or it went a great
deal flatter than any other stanza. One or
two literary Limericks will probably keep the
craze in remembrance. For instance, Swin-
burne is the author 6f one on Arthur Clough
which belongs to the class of brutal satire
that did not get much past the first or
second decade of the eighteenth century.
Clough, with his fads, his Oxford reputation
and his poor poetic performance, must have
got badly on Charles Algernon’s nerves to
make him go for the axe in this fashion :
There was a bad poet called Clough,
Whom his friends found it useless to puff;
For the public, though dull,
Has not quite such a skull
As belongs to believers in Clough.
The war produced its Limericks also. Here’s
one:— >
In the houses of happy Berlin
The cats have grown dreadfully thin;
But this leanness induces
A habit in pusses,
Without opening the door they walk in.
One of the most ingenious of all Limericks
is the well known tale of the lady of Kew :
There was a young lady of Kew
Who ran for a train at 2.2;
Said the porter. “Don't hurry;
There’s no need to worry,
It's a minute or two to 2.2.”
As a nonsense rhyme the Limerick has its
uses in the child’s play-room. This has not
seen print many times :
There was an old lady of Kew
Who always wore snails in her shoe;
When she went for a walk
She could hear the things talk,
And it s’prised her to know what they knew.
And so the chorus “Won’t you come up. come
up” fades farther and farther away, and the
little pinky stanza remains to be occasion-
ally played with, even if it never again exerts
the fascination it did some years ago over
the dowager duchess and the grocer’s
assistant.
P. Q. J.
Gilbert White
The 200th anniversary of the birth of
Gilbert White, the “famous English natural-
ist,” was recently celebrated, and Dr. Gilbert
White, his grand-nephew, Anglican Bishop
of Willoehra (S.A.), happening to be in Eng-
land. delivered an address. The cabled item
seemed, somehow, just right; for Gilbert
White has always owed a great deal of his
reputation as a naturalist and literary man
to his respectable family connections!
White’s fame is mainly academic: his
name lives in the mouth of men who buy
books they never read, and it may be reason-
ably argued that but for the pretentious
cant of literary dilettantism the sale of “The
Natural History of Selborne” would have
ceased long ago. As a naturalist he was
purely parochial, and as a simple letter-
writer who loved to introduce Greek words
into his epistles he enjoys a highly inflated
reputation. You pick up a vellum-bound
book entitled “Specimens of English Prose
Style,” edited by the pedantic George Saints-
bury, and you find specimens of Gilbert
White there, as a matter of course—speci-
mens that hardly persuade me that the de-
scriptive school needed to read Gilbert White
for style when Oliver Goldsmith. Horace
Walpole. David Hume and Tobias Smollett,
to mention only a few of the popular writers
of White’s time, were available:—
A very exact observer has often remarked
that a pair of ravera nesting in the rock of Gib-
raltar would suffer no vulture or eagle to rest near
their station, but would drive them from the hill
with an amazing fury: even the blue thrush at the
season of breeding would dart out from the clefts
of the rocks to chase away the kestrel or the sparrow-
hawk. Tf you stand near the nest of a bird that
has young she will not be induced to betray them
by an inadvertent fondness, but will \\ait about at
a distance with meat in her mouth for an hour
together.
One can read many more of the chosen ex-
tracts from “The Natural History of Sel-
borne” and still decline to endorse the dictum
that this was “the first book which raised
natural history into the region of literature."
The man who passed his whole life in a
little Hampshire village, whence he imparted
to a few friends' his views on birds, beasts
and stones, was one of a well-to-do family.
One brother retired from business in order
to dabble in physical science. Two others
were parsons—the vicar of Gibraltar, who
wrote of the natural history of the Rock and
carried on a scientific correspondence with
Linrueus, and a younger shepherd whose
ambition was to shine as a meteorologist,
but who didn’t live to gratify it. Another
brother was a publisher of educational works.
To him the position of Gilbert White among
the much-bought but rarely-read classics is
due; for it was he who published brother
Gilbert's letters on the natural history and
petty antiquities of the little parish. Six
years later (two years after the author’s
death) they were republished, and natural-
ists and literary quidnuncs, inspired always
by the numerous Gilbert clan, pushed the
work of the artless clergyman (for Gilbert
also was in holy orders) into the celebrity
it has attained. One edition professed to
be merely a book of natural history for the
young, and many people will think the
matter should have been left at that.
E. P.
Hugh McCrae and John Milton
“D.M.W.” in reply :
Hugh McCrae is a poet of whom Australia may
well be proud, a seer of wonderful things, a maker
of great phrases and strange music. Let this in
fairness be said before I make the rather obvious
remark that his twisting of my words in reference
to Milton (R.P. 7/10/’2O) is about the most amaz-
ing thing in the way of literary misrepresentation
that I have ever read. I said “Paradise Lost” was a
boy’s book because I had proved it so. McCrae says
it is not; and he is, of course, perfectly entitled to
his opinion if he thinks he has proved it otherwise.
What he is not entitled to do, however, is to twist
my words out of their plain meaning. 1 wrote: “He
is very living to me; more so in many ways than
Shakspeare and the rest.” In what possible sense is
that stowing “Shakspeare and the rest” in a “third-
class compartment” V By what crooked process of
reasoning does McCrae make my phrase “the rest”
one of contempt for the other poets? By what sort
of mental dishonesty does he bring himself to think
that my phrase “Shakspeare and the rest” leaves
me “without the power to see any line of demarca-
tion between Shakspeare and the smaller great
men”? I should be much fairer and more honest if
I took his own expression “poor old Shakspeare”
and proceeded to show from it that McCrae thought
very little of the work of the great dramatist.
Of course, Shakspeare is the wider in his sweep
and the more human of the two masters. That is
merely saying that he is a dramatist. My phrase
“in many ways” shows clearly enough that I did not
claim for Milton first place nor seek to make any
comparison of general merit. But Milton has both
the finer voice and the grander imagination ; and
McCrae’s open and unreserved disparagement of the
great poet in his blindness seems strangely futile.
“Milton had closed his heart long before God had
closed his eyes” is the statement; and I can only
feel sorry for its author. It means that he has
missed so much —the thunder-roll of battle in Heaven,
the “sonorous music blowing martial sounds,” the
magic of the garden. Of all these Milton wrote long
after “God had closed his eyes.” It is characteristic
that McCrae, who has the dire misfortune to be
tone-deaf to the grandest word-music of the ages,
that “God-given organ voice of England,” should
exalt the sonnets and choose one which is not among
the best three for quotation in full. Who doubts
that the sonnets “leap through the heart like fire” ?
The only question is whether the fire is quite
genuine when the burnt person makes such a poor
selection. Milton’s three best sonnets—and in this
there will b? no disagreement among ten thousand
lovers of the splendid heart-calling outbursts —are
those on the massacre in Piedmont, written when
his eyes were failing, on his blindness and on his
dead wife —the last two both written after “God
had closed his eyes.” So, on McCrae's own showing,
Milton’s best work was done after he had “closed
his heart.” “If the truth must be told,” McCrae
falls badly over his own feet in trying to coin a
cheap and showy epigram which is altogether false.
Perhaps it is not to be expected that one who
reasons like McCrae would modestly write in the
first person and show that his opinions are merely
personal ones. Throughout his article he lays down
the law as one having authority—l, Hugh McCrae,
have said it! But the things I wrote of Milton I
wrote simply and sincerely, offering them only as my
opinions backed by some observation. I should like
to repeat again my belief that, those to whom Milton
is vital are themselves vital in their work. McCrae
professes to have found Milton vital in one section
of his work; and he quotes a sonnet which most
Milton lovers consider lacking in both the greater
music and the finer magic. Most readers of McCrae’s
own “Satyrs and Sunlight” agree that with all its
fine phrasing and excellent pictures there is some-
thing lacking about it, some quality the absence of
which sets it apart as a very interesting literary
curiosity rather than as a sincere, strong human
book. Readers of Henry Newbolt, too, wonder that with
all his apparent passion he remains superficial and
cold. Can it be that the mental attitude of McCrae
and Newbolt to “Paradise Lost” furnishes the
answer? Is the thing they have missed the thing
that counts most ? And has McCrae come forward
with his challenge simply to offer clear and personal
proof of the thing I said and repeat? In any case, if
McCrae reads “Paradise Lost” in the same distorted
way as he read my remarks about it, it is no won-
der he gives such a ridiculously perverted view of
its contents.
9
A new hay-fork will glitter on the Inky
Way in January, when Australian Farm-
ing makes its start from Melbourne once a
month. The father and organiser of the new
paper is E. H. C. Oliphant, late of the
leader-writing staff of Melbourne Herald.
Someone else will edit. Oliphant takes the
managing-director’s chair.
“75”: Will Dyson has collaborated with
Gerald Gould, a pungent humorist of a breed
not numerous in England, in “Lady Adela.”
which was too bright and topical to be denied
publication even in these days when, owing
to paper costs, etc.. London publishers have
barbed-wire entanglements to keep persons
with _ manuscripts off the premises. Gould
gets in some telling stabs at caste, privilege,
snobbery and other vices, and Dyson’s illus-
trations are things of joy.


You can Satisfy
your preference for
TYRES
If your dealer does not
stocK Michelins, write to
us and we will give you
the name of one who does.
You need not accept other makes in place of
your Michelins. For the small trouble of asking us
a question you can assure regular supplies of your
favorite tyres.
iVi^r/p
&
1 •* 4
m
<3
The tyres that cost least per mile to run
because of their Quality.
The tyres that are REAL rubber non-skids
because of their Design.
The tyres that help to reduce car upkeep
cost because of their Resiliency.
MICHE.LIN
Universal Tread Covers
and
Red Rubber
/ Ring v
Tubes
MICHELIN & CO.
31 King Street,
PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne.


w.
They Don’t
Miss
A BID.
Winehcombe-Carson
men get every pos-
sible penny buyers
can pay at the
yards.
The firm’s salesmen are alert and know
values. That is why each new Winchcombe-
Carson sender becomes a Permanent Client.
Top Market Prices.
CONSIGN SHEEP AND CATTLE:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Homebush Yards,
Sydney.
Enoggera Yards,
Brisbane.
or
sg
are an important contribution to
Australia’s list of dainty eatables,
and are already regarded as a
necessity in hundreds of well-
ordered households. Only the best
quality of flour, sugar and butter
are used in the manufacture of
Joyce biscuits, and they are as
wholesome for children as they are
for adults. Buy them in |lb.
sealed paper packets, or in 21b. or
41b. tins.
Your Grocer Sells Them.
£7xfy arielies
it
■MI!2P
k
MM.
RIDE A B.S.A.
FOR PLEASURE
More fresh air, more pleasant exercise,
ftnd a realization of all the pleasures
that await you in the open country,
on a bicycle built of genuine B.S.A.
Fittings, is a better tonic than any
doctor can prescribe. A constant com-
panion, and trusty servant, it is at your
service any moment, and will carry you
anywhere with comfort, economy and
ease, away just where your fancy may
dictate.
To fully enjoy cycling be sure your
bicycle is built of B.S.A. Fittings, the
reputation behind the well-known
trade Mark is a sure guarantee of
perfect construction, reliability and
service. Send for Handbook post
free and note the superior features of
genuino B.S.A. Fittings.
All B.S.A. Fittings are
guaranteed interchangeable.
RIDE A BICYCLE BUILT OF
GENUINE
ETTFINCS
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
D, Y. RENNIE
(representing B.S.A. Co. Lid.)
Vtislraliaa Buildings, MELBOURNE.
MjsWrmlimn
wmmm
m
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9 t %> guaranteed).
SPELTER
sdg
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust —Containing about 90% Metallic Zine
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agrent:
K. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 63 Broolunan Buildings.
i* ' imef-ii
m
ST;
§ss^
HL
stia*
ft
sis
“Pioneer”
Wood Pipe
Good
for Fifty
Years
(or more) of satisfactory service. The supreme test of the work of any
product i.s the kind of Service it gives—and the length of time it gives it.
Over a million people, in Australia alone, are drinking pure water supplied
through wood pipe, and every month the number is increasing.
The durability of wood pipe has been proved through HUNDREDS of years
of service. Pipes constructed by ihe Romans in the deep artesian bores of
the Libyan Desert, 1500 years ago, are still in excellent condition.
Wood Pipe is cheaper than steel or iron pipe ; it does not corrode, has a
larger capacity than steel pipe, and does not contaminate the water.
Send for Descriptive Booklet.
All enquiries to
THE AUSTRALIAN WOOD PIPE CO. Ltd.
BURNS BAY ROAD, LANE COVE (Ferry to Fig Tree),
NEW SOUTH WALES.
And at FOOTSCRAY, VICTORIA,
Christopher Johnson & Co.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Their Famous Full Hollow-Ground
Metropolitan Razor.
PRICE 10/6,
Of all Stores.
ilSfi
lt <
A PERFECT
SHAVE.
It’s British.
If unable to procure send Postal Note to their Representatives.
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, 50 York Street, SYDNEY.
328 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
URODONAL
fit. v;
i® ' PP
Wmm. \ 4
#L
G*
iffk
v®
V 4 ;
MAINTAINS YOUTH OF THE
HEART AND ARTERIES.
It frees them from all the waste
products, uratic and chalky de-
posits which tend to harden their
walls.
This cleansing process may be compared to
the boiler and pipes of an engine, which
would certainly refuse to work were its
various parts allowed to become clogged
with accumulated dust and dirt.
The same rule applies to the human machine.
PRICE PER
BOTTLE, 10/9.
URODONAL dissolves uric
acid, removes sandy de-
posits from the heart
valves, prevents degen-
eration of the blood ves-
sels, which interferes with
normal circulation, there-
by preventing overstrain
of the heart.
Prepared by
Etablissements
Chatelain,
Paris.
Can be obtained from all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australasia,
or from CH ATE CAIN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 352 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY, from whom also can be obtained Free Booklet containing
Medical Opinions.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Dairy Farmer” : Some returned men need
good reserves of courage to face their jobs
on the home front. The other day one of
them bought at auction 51 acres of grass-land
at the old Customs station on the Vic. side
of the Murray near Albury, and though the
improvements on the block were valued at
only £52 he went to £251 an acre before it
was knocked down to him. It is alleged
that this is an Australian record for this
kind of land. Let’s hope so.
* * * *
“Zephyr”: The par. (B. 2(»/S/’20) about
the broke individual who visited the hotel
where he had formerly been “boots” and
reaped a harvest from the tips put out for
his successor, reminds me of the early nights
*of Zeehan (Tas.). A hard-upper who was
staying at a pub there went round and col-
lected the tips from all the boots, then put
two bob in his own hoof-covers and the
balance in his pocket. Next day the official
polisher informed him that he was the only
gentleman staying in the house.
* * * *
“To-Po” : Poor Australia ! An inspector
informed a youth in Junee (N.S.W.), who
was learning a useful trade and earning 30s.
a week, that he must be bound under inden-
tures. “Right,” agreed the budding trades-
man. “But then,” said the departmental
god, “if you bind yourself legally, the Law
will not allow you to do this particular
work. You must confine yourself to a class
of work for which adequate remuneration
will be 10s. a week.” “Right,” again said
the young Australian. Then he left his job
to push a truck as a railway porter.
* * * #
“The Immature Male”: Spaghetto is a
fruit pirate whose shop is situated in one
of Sydney’s naicest suburbs. lie mak-a da
mon’ so easily these times that it has become
almost a favor to be served at his banana
emporium qt all. The other night, the wife
of one of our wealthiest profiteers sailed
into the shop and drawled, “Have you-ah
any pahpahsV” "Nah,” sneered Spaghetto,
shortly. “What absolute nonsense, mai
man! Those are pahpahs, there!” Mrs.
Dives pointed a triumphant finger at the
window, which held a miniature pyramid of
the delicacy. “Listen-a missus,” replied
Spaghetto, in an ominous voice, “dose-a are
‘pawpaws,’ not ‘pahpahs’! You no .spik-a
da English, you no get-a da fruit!”
*• * * *
“Pastor Ovium”: Woolgrowers had a
taste at the Adelaide wool sales of what is
in store for them if the pestilent business of
manufacturing wool in Australia, instead of
sending it somewhere near the North Pole
and dragging the cloth back, prospers. It
was only the competition of the Australian
woollen mills that kept the market from
slumping. Not more than a quarter of the wool
offered was sold, and of that Australian
buyers took more than half. Nor were they
shy of paying big prices for the finer wools,
the only kind for which there was any
general demand —for example, 3s. 34d. per
lb. was paid for greasy wool by Vicars of
Marrickville. On the evidence Australian
manufacturers can not only turn out the
finished product at a cheaper rate than his
oversea-competitor, but can give the grower
a good show. Which, of course, is only-
natural.
* * * *
“F.M.C.” : The Tasmanian trains are being
dragged about by patched crocks of engines.
Away back in 1914 the officials began poring
over English and American catalogues, but
without result. A few months ago the news-
papers began talking of Commissioner
Georgie Smith and Chief-Engineer Deeble
having just about fixed the affair for the
construction of 10 locos, with Perry’s, of
Gawler (S.A.). However. Premier Lee re-
fused to sanction the deal. As usual, a Royal
Commission was appointed, but no one got
anything out of it except the lawyers, and the
trains didn’t go any faster. Now Georgie
Smith has fixed another contract with Perry,
and he and Railways Minister Propsting
have trotted to Gawler “to expedite matters,”
and to try to get a few second-hand machines
—narrow-gauge engines that used to run on
the Broken Hill line until that place settled
down to a permanent strike. Meantime
nearly all the Speck’s engines are under
repair, and the trains are just kept going
by employing crowds of men in the chief
r ”' r> air-shop on a system of continuous over-
time.
THE TIMIDITY OF FRITZ.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fear having been expressed in Germany that Aus-
tralia will oust the foreigner in the manufacture
of woollen goods, Melbourne Argus is astonished at
“a people ordinarily well informed taking these
grandiose schemes so seriously,” and assures the Ger-
mans that we are not likely to become “serious
competitors.”
Tush! Fritz, you’ve made a great mistake.
You met Australians in the war,
And think our little boy must make
A terrible competitor.
Because he licked you well in arms,
You manage in some way to see
Occasion for these grim alarms;
But Anzacs, if apart from farms,
Are of no use in industry.
They’re pretty good behind a gun,
They’re tasty with a bayonet,
They often made you fellows run—
You naturally fear them yet.
Don’t have them on your mind, dear boy,
The lad of high, heroic blood,
Who found it easy to destroy
The flower of Prussia, in employ
Of peaceful sort is just a dud.
Get to it then, sagacious Fritz,
And, German Hans most capable,
Exert your energy and wits —-
You’ll beat us easily and well.
Your mills are in good order still.
We conquered but we are content
To quite depend upon your skill —
- Most satisfied, say, if you will,
While we are most subservient!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


STORAGE
BATTERY
Willard
TRADE
MARK REG
STEREO
Only Two Rinds
of Batteries.
Those that have Threaded
Rubber Insulation and
those that don’t.
Ask any owner who has
had years of experience with
each and he’ll tell you the
difference.
It means money in your
pocket.
Willard Threaded Rubber Insulation )
STORAGE
BATTERY
%
J?
A
O
1*
%
O'
<fe
9B


Hose of Luxite
Nobody can have better
Hose than Luxite—manu-
factured from the softest,
longest fibres and strong-
est yarn obtainable. Its
serviceability is a cer-
tainty.
Insist on having this
brand. Our enormous pro-
duction saves expense in
many ways, hence “ Lux-
ite” prices are always
low. The soft, full-bodied
shimmer of Luxite Hose
is acquired.
If your dealer is unable
to supply you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD
50 York Street :: SYDNEY.
n
Id 4
THE
Brisbane's
GBESHAM,
Lei»aing' Hotel.
DRAWS
OUT
THE POISONS
which cause Barcoo Rot,
Bad Legs, Sore Feet,
Carbuncles, Boils,
Poisoned Wounds,
Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, and
those arising from Insect
Bites.
The Proprietors of
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT
have an absolute confidence in its un-
surpassed merits. They know it to be a
safe and perfect cure for all skin and
blood ailments; and the vast number of
testimonials received prove this.
GRASSHOPPER positively
drawis the iioisons which produce
these maladies out of the system.
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifier,
and for those who suffer from headaches, the
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
arc equally effective. Do not be persuaded
to purchase any substitute preparations,
sold by all Drug Stores and Chemists
throughout the Commonwealth.
Public Notice.
INVESTMENT
10 PER CENT. CUMULATIVE
SHARES IN SOUND, PRO-
GRESSIVE COMPANY.
Balance-sheets and bank references.
Applications for Prospectus invited
from Gentlemen of standing only.
“Investment,”
Box 521 G.P.O.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
•UJUtg}*
»«*»
.X
mt
T**a
v/w/m
LLSEJ
iM
«*■
inoA
V & -
JWc
Wf
mr “
i \
' r.
lib
LSI
«
2\ i
p?
//A
* *<mtm
Ifr /#%%
,w
h
uifmiw
rw
m
a
n
H<K#«l iv4**t
C JOHNSOH«M
• I*cl«t WH
WT
M*|«W-
Here’s the
Polish !
TO use Johnson’s
Prepared Wax you
need only a cloth—no
brushes, sprays nor mops of any kind. With very
little rubbing you can produce a lustrous, lasting
polish of great durability.
You can use Johnson’s Prepared Wax over any
finish, whether varnished, French-polished or
oiled, and the result will be a hard, dry, velvety
polish impervious to water, dust, scratches, heel-
marks and finger-prints.
Jl
Liquid and Paste
is more than a polish, for it forms a thin protect
ing film which serves as a wonderful preservative
Johnson’s Powdered Wax
Sprinkled over any floor will immediately give a
perfect dancing surface.
Your dealer will be glad to supply you with this most
satisfactory polish.
S. C. Johnson & Son
397 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
And Racine, Wisconsin, U.S.A.
S. Aus. Assembly has approved of pro-
portional representation by a two-to-one
majority. It was not a party question, but
the members of the Government were fairly
solid against it. Evidence from other States
was contradictory. One opponent lately from
N. S. \\ ales claimed that the system was a
failure there. Another instanced Tasmania,
where, he maintained, “one or two wild and
woolly enthusiasts broke loose on a sleepy-
community and got it through.”
"Nod” : Donald Mackinnon, Vic. Minister
for Lands, recently spent a sultry day at New-
market cattle-yards and watched ICO head
of Western Queensland stuff go off on a de-
pressed market_at £35 a head. The beasts
had hoofed it 000 miles to Earina, whence
they were trucked to Adelaide and thence to
Melbourne. Donald holds some dangerously
up-to-date notions about Victoria using more
of her wealth for the development of the
back parts of N. S. Wales and Queens-
land, and Theodore may get a helping hand
from a quarter where he least expects it.
Finding that £2 Bs. a week, even with
uniform and some rations found, was not
sufficient to make ends meet in London,
Maude Terry, a policewoman, has come to
Australia. She is at present looking about
Melbourne, An educated, refined woman, she
can tell some thrilling stories of her work.
She was a member of the proper women’s
police force which replaced the strange war
organisation presided over by Dame Dawson.
John Hop o’ London hated the first skirted
constables, but has taken the new organisa-
tion to his bosom—metaphorically speaking.
A provincial mayor noted for his good
works found himself in a strange galley one
night last week. Some of what in that godly
provincial city passes for the Smart Set
organised a theatre night “for charity” and
the Firm lent a few girls. A supper party
followed to which the Chief Ruler was bidden.
His was a blushful time. In the first place
champagne flowed—before him who touched
nothing stronger than lime-soda. Opposite
him was a danseuse insufficiently clothed. Did
he look right or left similar sights were un-
covered to his view. The climax came when
charmers, one on each side and placed so of
malice prepense, brought out gold cigarette-
cases, and chinking glasses across him bade
him smoke and sip with them. The story
spread, and Bethel is arranging a week of
prayer.
“Ike Hollar”: The serf of the starched pali-
sade and the pen is steadily having his affairs
straightened out for him by the Clerical
Association, which used to be the Clerks’
Union. Having secured a standard living
wage for all clerks, the Association is chasing
sectional determinations with the zeal bred
of .success. An award of £4 15s. per week
for time-payment collectors has been con-
summated, and an attack is proceeding on
the fortresses of the eight-and-fourpence
(who used to be six-and-eightpence) barons
in the interests of solicitors’ clerks. A
minimum of £4 10s. a week for adult male
pen-pushers, rising to £lO for managing-
clerks, is the Association’s objective, and
Ermyntrude is to be consoled with 75 per
cent, of the salaries asked for Augustus and
Fred.
For just on ten years the Commonwealth
Government has been trying to run the
Northern Territory from Melbourne, which,
without railway communication, is more re-
mote from Darwin than Perth is from
Batavia. No expense has been spared in
providing billets for politicians’ friends and
other persons who had to be fixed-up some-
how, and in this way a substantial debt has
been established, together with an annual
deficit of about half a million ; in return for
which the output of wealth has been increased
by several dates and a few bananas. But the
other day the dreadful admission was made
that after 10 years of this sort of empire-
building the white population had got down
to 2770, of whom 339 are in the service of
the Government. And 57 of the 339 are
principally employed in supplying the male
population of Darwin (498) with beer.
There are nine school-teachers on the pay-
sheets and 51 pub-managers, barmen, yard-
men, cellar hands and other workers in the
medium of beer. This subordination of
brains to beer tells the whole painful story.
Civilisation may sometimes get forward on
a powder-cart, but never in the history of
the world has colonisation got forward on a
brewer’s lorry.
“W.R.8.” offers some suggestions :
More and more officialdom tends to delve publicly into
the working-man’s private needs, as though he and his
mates were prize rams or blood stallions; and that
the procedure is causing resentment in the very class
which it is designed to soothe is a platitude. The
Melbourne Basic Wage Commission has lately gone
so far as to reduce the business to a calories basis!
Now if this is the right way to approach the pro-
blem, let it, for logic’s sake, be pursued to a stage
where the absolute minimum is attained. One Flet-
cher, an American, found 1600 calories per day enough:
on that he grew healthy and strong, beating trained
athletes at their own games. Abramowski was another
who attacked the problem scientifically and
benefited in health and strength. He lived in
Mildura for the greater part of his life. Both declared
that the world greatly overeats, and found two
meals a day ample. Both condemned the consump-
tion of meat. Fletcher specialised in mastica-
tion ; Abramowski in the dietetic value of fruits and
nuts. The latter’s conclusions are supported to-day
by the 1 itamines cult, and combining the data
obtained from such sources it appears that the
most ravenous appetite can be satisfied in 15 min-
utes by 30 mouthfuls of fruit and nuts chewed 70
times. Assuming a mouthful to weigh, say, j oz.,
we obtain 150 z., or in round figures one pound, of
the above type of food as the amount required by
an active, healthy man per diem. Since fresh fruit
costs about sixpence a pound and nuts Is. 6d., it
will only take Is. per day to provide sufficient for
the worker. Therefore award him that amount and
give him half an hour to eat it in, and you have him
satisfactorily reduced, as far as his food is con-
cerned, while the question of clothes and shelter
could be placed on an equally scientific basis. To
this plan the sole objection is that the worker is not
a machine. He is a human being very similar in his
thoughts, tastes and aspirations to the members of
the commissions which struggle so well-meaningly
to flatten out his life for him.


A
O
o
o
v
r\
o
Surprise
Determination
Reverence
Modesty
Fear
LEARN TO DRAW
BY THE WESTON METHOD
IT IS SO SIMPLE,
Starting with simple studies in straight lines, curves and
circles as above, you soon become proficient enough to
dash off in a few moments a free, bold sketch similar
to this one.
OUR BOOKLET CONTAINS
IVIANY TESTIMONIALS LIKE THIS:—
I would have no hesitation whatever in recom-
mending; your course as one likely to infuse the
beginner with originality, and give him a clear
understanding of the right lines along which to
express his ideas.
Your conscientious criticisms suxiply a great
advantage, which the beginner who is deter-
mined to study alone would lose.
—G. N. BROWN.
“There’s Money in the Pen.”
The Commercial possibilities of Art
never greater than they are now. Every
paper is full of pen-and-ink or brush drawings
all paid for —and handsomely paid for too.
Every advertiser knows that a strong, catchy
drawing is the best way of
attracting attention to his pub-
licity. Mr, Harry J. Weston is
one of the leading Commercial
Artists of Australia. His
experience extends over a num-
ber of years, and embraces all
branches of Commercial Art and
Poster Designing. The methods
by which he achieved success
are fully and simply explained
in his course, and can be
readily followed by those desir-
ing to make money in the
pleasant and distinctive occupa-
tion of drawing for Commercial
purposes.
ds
Ya
CSK
r
W/j
7
Send 3d.
for our
Booklet
\rv. v - , vr , V
“ There’s Money
in the Pen.”
JAt fjttbw ffiTytifan-
Postal /School
4 UNION HOUSE, GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
START TO MAKE MONEY
LIKE MANY OF OUR PUPILS.
You will be pleased to hear, no doubt, that I
bad a sketch accepted by “The Bulletin” the
other day, and incidentally rustled a cheque for
£l. Considering the size, quality
and time spent on the affair, I
was pleased myself. This is the
second attempt I’ve sent into
“The Bulletin,” but I hope it’s
not the last.
—H. ARMSTRONG.
“There’s Pleasure in the Pen.”
The ability to sketch is an. endless pleasure.
One need never feel bored or lonely who is
possessed of this accomplishment. Bright
little pen-and-ink sketches add zest to your
correspondence —your letters are preserved and
appreciated by your friends.
Your sketch-book is the finest
souvenir of your holidays
and travels that you can
have. Your own pictures on
your walls possess a worth
that endears them to yourself
and your family. The Weston
method shows the short cut to
proficiency. It fosters talent
and obviates drudgery. Every
lesson is a pleasure. Just
try sketching the simple faces
above and see how interested
you become.
&
THOMPSON CO.
(CASTLEMAINE
PTY. LTD.)
Address Cables and
Telegrams:
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
HEAD OFFICE:
CASTLEMAINE, VICTORIA.
(Also at WILLIAMSTOWN, VIC.)
Telephones:
Nos. 5 and 113.
Designers and Manufacturers of all the Latest Types of
Machinery, Power Plants for Mines, Factories, Shipbuilding*,
etc.
FORGING DEPARTMENT.
Made from
Steel
Produced in
Australia.
Illustrating some of our Work ,
Support
Australian
Industries.
WE SPECIALISE in Heavy Forging's of All Kinds,
including' Crank Shafts, Plain Shafts, Sugar Rolls,
Connecting Rods, Tyres and Pressed Forg'ings
INTER-STATE AGENTS
Melbourne:
Gibson, Battle (Melb.) Pty. Ltd.
Sydney:
L. Hinks 8 Co. Ltd.
Adelaide :
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
Brisbane :
Engineering Supply Co.
of Aust. Ltd.
PertH:
Brown 8 Bureau Ltd.
THe East:
McAlister 8 Co. Ltd.


MS ON SCAL
Itched and Burned. Hair Fell
Out. Cuticura Heals.
*‘l suffered a couple of years with
dandruff in my head. My head used
iT»
to itch and ourn and the irri-
tation caused me to scratch
my scalp, causing eruptions
and sleepless nights. The
dandruff fell out and there
were scales on the scalp.
My hair fell out.
*‘l then saw the free offer of Cuti-
cura advertised and decided to give it
a trial. I began to get relief, so I con-
tinued the treatment which healed me.”
(Signed) Miss Dorothy West, Water
St., Ulvcrstone, Tas.
For hair and skin health Cuticura
Soap and Ointment are supreme.
Nothing better for toilet and bath.
For sample each address: “R. Towns &
Co Sydney. N. S. W.” Sold everywhere.
a!P«S“ Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
Soap, 1/-; Ointment. 1/- & 2/-
fm
CREME EICAYA
Powder Always
Shows On a
Rough Skin
D
0 you realize that
your skin would look
twice as nice if you used
a finishing cream every
time before you put on
face powder?
Follow this simple formula—
-4 ,A little CREME ELCAYA
rubbed gently into the akin;
then ii you need color t a very
littlegood rouge spread care*
fullyover the cheeks before
the cream is quite dry; and
after that the film of face
powder over all."
CREME
ELCAYA
is a delightful, non-gieasy, dis-
appearing toilet cream that
makes the skin like velvet.
Price 2/0 per po A
Large size, 5/-
Elcaya bate Powder, 4/6.
Elcaya Cold Cream, 4/6-
All kocu Stores and Chemists,
or direct frorti
Druggists’ Sundries, Ltd.,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney
The Elcaya Co. Inc., New York, U.S.A.
Potastrop
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
gsd
600 Shaves
in One Blade
with the Only Heel &
Toe Motion Stropper.
Post Free, 30/=
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Send To-day to
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDNEY
And COMMERCE BUILDINC, MELBOURNE
, Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TAKIFF:—From 17/6 per day.
10/- per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
Moving Pictore Stories Psy Big Money
l
Scores of men and women to-day are making
big money in their spare time by helping to
supply the enormous demand for Photo-
plays. Scores of producing companies
are ready to pay for good ideas. They
must have them. You can write them,
provided you are taught the art of
building up successful Photoplay
Plots. This is exactly what the
Palmer Photoplay Institute
helps you to do. They take
your Movie Ideas, point out
. the good features and the
J weak spots —show yon how to
g strengthen the Plot how to ad-
vance the Action of the Play. But
these are only a few of the feat*
u res of the
Advisory
Council:
C. B.DeMILLE
Director-General of
F. - Lanky c'c.r;>.
THOS. H. INCE
r/ionuts H. /nee studios
LOIS WEBER
Lois I Veber Productions
ROB WAGNER
-special Saturday Evening Post Writer
Palmer Plan of
Photoplay V^riting
It has so many other interesting points that we cannot tell you about all of them in this limited
space, so we have issued our new illustrated booklets “THE SECRET OF SUCCESSFUL PHOTO-
PLAY WRITING” and “PROOF POSITIVE,” These books explain the Palmer Plan of Instruction
in detail. The Palmer Plan of Instruction is not a mere book full of “hints” on Photoplay Writing
but is a definite clean-cut plan that shows you how to convert your Movie Ideas into money.
Australia Offers an Immense Field for New Ideas and Scenes for the
screen—pupils of the Palmer Institute have the markets of the World for their productions. Once
a member always a member, for the Institute makes a special feature of finding markets for suit-
able Photoplays from the pens of its pupils at all times.
Get our Free Booklets now—“TIIE SECRET OF SUCCESSFUL PHOTOPLAY WRITING” and
“PROOF POSITIVE ’ are yours for the asking.
WIDDER AND MITCHELL, DEPT. 8., UNION HOUSE, GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Repreienting THE PALMER PHOTOPLAY CORPORATION Los Angeles, Cal.
3S
m-ir
■‘ T </
Fairbanks -Morse
C O Marine Oil Entries
jjo to 300 Horse-Fbwer
*»
Service —Reliability— Economy
'THE “C-0” ENGINE
A operates success-
fully and efficiently on
such a great variety
of oils —crude oil,
stove oil, “Solar” oil,
gas oil or kerosene —
that the lower grades
procurable in almost
any port are suitable
for it.
Medium compression positive variable speed
control^—3o to 100 h. p. specially designed reverse
gears, 150 to 300 h. p. direct reversible—simplicity
of mechanism—highest standard of construction —
low fuel cost —low maintenance cost.
Fairbanks - Morse reputation for service and
quality insures the strength, durability and work-
manship of “C-O” Marine Oil Engines.
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD., Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & CO., Adelaide.
JAMES BARTRAM '& SONS, LTD., Melbourne.
VVINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Brisbane.
MALLOCH BROTHERS,. Pertli.
DONALD & SONS, LTD., Masterton, N.Z.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD., Hobart, Tasmania.
Fairbanks, Morse far (3
§ incorporated I B manufacturers
Foreign Dept.,
NEW YORK,
U. S. A.
LONDON, ENGLAND BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA
==r\
You feel good after shaving
with Williams’ Holder Top
Shaving Stick. You’ve had a
quick, cool, business-like shave
with a soap that has a seventy-
five years experience back of it.
It gives a rich creamy lather
that never goes dry. The more
you work it the more
gentle and soothing it
becomes. The patent
Holder Top enables you
to use the stick down
to a wafer.
Sold by Tobacconists
and Stores everywhere
W 35
Holder Top
SHAVING STICK
VY OO
The
Hoidef
Top .
Stick
THE PALACE HOTEL
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OP PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
The close season for Murray cod began
on October 1, but on October 5 Murray cod
was still on the menu at Federal Parliament
House. Possibly this particular cod arranged
to be caught before the season closed.
P. J. Minahan’s re-admission to the N. S.
Wales Labor fold breaks a law of the A.L.P.
that an expelled member must remain “out”
three years. When that solid and honest
Laborite, John English, was disqualified for
opposing Minahan at Bclmore, he was curtly
informed that his application for reinstate-
ment couldn’t be entertained because he had
opposed a selected Labor candidate within
three years. But Minahan is another pair
of sleeves. In these matters it is better
to be named Minahan or Gilhooley than
English—or Higgs.
“O.Iv.”: Who can trace the origin
of a famous epigram? I had always
supposed Madame de Stael to be mother
of the apt apology she offered for
a letter to a lady friend: “Excuse the
length of this letter—-I would have made it
shorter had I not been so pressed for time.”
' Now I find the same thing in an ancient
book of jests that were quoted ere Madame
de Stael was born. When William 111. told
Archbishop Tillotson that his sermon was
too short, the parson replied, “Sir. could
I have bestowed more time on it, it would
have been shorter.” And maybe the Tillotson
story dated back to some wise old man of
Athens.
The last public statement of„ Queensland
Premier Theodore before he went raging to
the poll with all the imaginary electors and
ghosts was that London financiers were bri-
gands. Also that
Squatters, insurance companies and mortgage com-
panies would be asked to subscribe to a loan, and if
they refused the Government would search their
pockets for them.
But a very large proportion of these people
come of a. race in which kilts axe heredi-
tary, and the pocket in a kilt is about as
hard to find as one in a lady’s dress. Also,
the kilted tribe, though slow to wrath, is
terrible when roused, and it would take more
than a frothy person of Roumanian extrac-
tion and some mixed colleagues who bubble
like seidlitz powders to get saxpence from
it without due cause.
“D.F.”: That beastly word “Britisher,”
which “G. G. MeC.” so justly condemns (B.
9/9/’2O), originated a great deal more than
40 years ago. In Marryat’s “Mildmay,” pub-
lished in 1829, a Yankee mate asks: “Are
we going to be bullied by these
Britishers?” The word was probably in-
vented about the same time as the U.S.A.
and applied invidiously to the English dur-
ing the War of Independence. It is not the
first term of opprobrium which time has
deprived of its sting. “Pakeha” is now a
word in good standing in M.L., and is used
by refined lady-writers who want local color.
But there is a strong suspicion that it is
the nearest the Maoris could get to a noun
quite unsuited to polite ears, but much used
by the old-time whalers, beachcombers
and “tonguers” who first brought rum and
civilisation to M.L.
“D.E.”: In some respects Armageddon
was fought in vain. One despairingly hoped
that it would deliver a bored world from
the infliction of Yankee Civil War novels,
but it hasn’t had that effect at all ; it has
only accelerated the horror. Hiram J.
Bullswool, an American statistician, reckons
that the Civil War novelists, male and
female, consume annually a quantity of
timber that would have kept the Roman
Empire in firewood for 10 years. Nowa-
days no American home is complete without
its own Civil War novel, from the gifted
pen of Mamie, Theodosia or Silas K.; and
in each of these 1,789.258 immortal works
Lincoln is the hero—a Lincoln transmogri-
fied into a garrulous imbecile or an insuffer-
able prig. Outside the U.S.A., who yearns
to read this rubbish? What intelligent Aus-
tralian can find anything profitable or inter-
esting in the manoeuvres of bad generals or
the mutual slaughter of armed mobs? Yet
shiploads. ..of this rubbish come across the
Pacific and cumber the shelves of bookshops
and libraries, to the exclusion of native
literature.
“Dusty Folio”: There’s a rising and ex-
panding market for ’Australians and for old
stuff generally. A Maoriland buyer has been
in Melbourne hunting up things for the
Wellington public library, and offering high
prices for anything really good. Melbourne
collectors, too, are beginning to bestir them-
selves. There are still finds if you have luck
and keep your eyes open. A man who
handles a good deal of old stuff lately raked
out in a big Melbourne bookstore a full set
(eight volumes and another of charts and
plans) of Hawkesworth’s Voyages, including
the circumnavigations of Byron, Wallis,
Carteret and Cook. The earlier volumes
were published in 1773, and those giving an
account of Cook’s second and third voyages
later. These volumes were lying about
covered by dust, and the discoverer got them
cheap, the owners being rather glad to get
rid of so much old junk. There would be
little difficulty in getting rid of them again.
A big-estate subdivision scheme has been
announced for N. S. Wales. The big owner
may x-.etain £20.000 worth of soil which, if
unimproved value is meant, would be as much
as 4000 acres at some places on the western
railway line within 250 miles of Sydney. But
apparently improved value is meant, for the
Ministei-ial statement reads:—
£20,000 worth not unimproved, or what would
represent £20,000 worth if the land were fully im-
proved for the purposes to which it was suited.
Land values have gone up through the paper-
money boom, just as clothes values have gone
up. so the big landowner may be left with
1000 acres or less. In fact, the small owner
may become bigger than the big owner. He
is to sell to the small landowner on “the
same liberal and generous terms for repay-
ment as the Goveimment has given in the
past.” which is rather rough, for the Gov-
ernment had the loan funds to be liberal
with while the private owner hasn’t, and the
Government was giving away the people’s
land which cost it nothing, while the private
owner has to give away his own land which
•sometimes cost him a good deal.


A Greater Run
for Your Money
Whether you are riding solo, or with a passenger,
speeding along the country roads, or threading your
way through city traffic, Plume Benzine gives you
full power and full mileage always.
Motor cyclists who are keen on getting the best
results from their engines, specify Plume when
ordering.
They praise its easy starting, sweet running, and
say it gives them a greater run for their money.
PLUME
BENZINE
Fill up next time at the dealer who displays a
Plume sign, and put Plume to the test.
Don’t ask for Benzine—say Plume.
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Write our nearest Branch
jor free booklet,
“Correct Cycle Lubrication ’
P 2
•f<X-
THSitctn
9
HU.
KHZfcHtOAI MhAITH Million
Black Fri arsDisthl
Plymouth >
SS^SS-tli&Ji
tNCLANO
The purest spirit
in the world.
As crystal-pure as it looks,
Coates’ Original Plymouth
Dry Gin has never
departed from the highest
quality standard since
1793. In that year
COATES’
Original Plymouth
DRY GIN
was first made at the famous Black-
friars’ Distillery, Plymouth, Eng-
land. Every bottle reflects the accu-
mulated experience of 127 years’
gin-distillation.
Coates’ Original Plymouth Dry Gin
is a thoroughly mature spirit of
rare mellowness. It is admirable
for health purposes, because of its
especial richness in juniper.
Buy whole bottles.
At all good clubs, hotels, etc.
COOPER, NATHAN & Co., Sole Agents,
Sydney.
Interstate A .gents:
Melbourne: H. J. Langdon & Co.
Brisbane: Perkins & Co.. Ltd.
West Australia: Seppelt & Son.
# ~ • v 1 v '
tjMm‘> , ISfeKSMs*.
I§|sP
Spr
i£-ii
fSSas®
I :>■ > : ii i
1 J lilt
r "f\ '•- r;
®BSS
;
»T:
?Sr. :'<
fl ill
mm
uz
■ i H
. -V-•!#?*•
«
tei
i—iu^.iirf.l
1
Wm:
BEHNING
Drawing-room
Grand Pianos
THESE exquisite instruments are distin-
guished by beauty and richness of tone,
handsome in appearance, and with the
stamp of quality in every detail, the
“BEHNING” drawing-room grand pianos
have gained a world-wide reputation.
BEHNING Grands are designed by artists
with a view to expressing in them by
symmetry of outline that sense of richness
which best accords with their intrinsic
qualities.
Ideal for the home —small enough for an ordinary room
large enough for a music room or concert hall.
Upon Application a Catalogue
fully describing in detail these
Splendid Instruments will be
posted Free.
sj/Dfiey.
«M 0 AT
'BRISBfInt.nE-WtflJTLt,
TOOWOOMBA LlJMort£.
ROCKHAMPTON
m
Come in and inspect these
Magnificent Instruments. An
Easy System of Purchase is
offered.


A. Saunders’ Nut Dish and Cracks, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, emhossed border, 84/-
A. Saunders’ Dinner Cruet,
Silver-plated Frame, Crystal
Glass Bottles, 60/-
pure
Cut-
A. Saunders’ Soup Tureen, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, plain design, £ll/11/-
A. Saunders’ Flower
Vase, pure Silver-
plated, Gilt-lined,
Sin., 15/6.
A. Saunders’ Butter Dish, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, Crystal Glass Dish,
30/-
SILVER-PLATE
A. Saunders’ Biscuit Barrel, polishec
Oak, A 1 quality, Silver-plated
Mounts, Porcelain China lining,
A. Saunders’ Flower
Vase, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality,
clear Crystal Glass,
ib/6.
A. Saunders’ Combination Fruit and Flower Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, highly burnished, £l3/13'/-
A. Saunders’ Jam Dish, pure Silver-
plated Frame, Fancy Glass Dish,
25/-'
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, highly burnished and engraved, 50/-
A. Saunders’ Hot Water Kettle,
pure Silver-plated, AX quality,
highly burnished, £5/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street
(Opposite Railway Station), Sydney.
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Stand, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, £7/10/-
FREE
Write to-day for Special
Recipes and full Directions
for making delicious Ices and
Summer Drinks. Sent free
on application to
NESTLE’S
347 Kent Street
SYDNEY
COIN
Summer Day Treat!
HOME MADE ICES
Delicious
Economical
Easy to Make
WITH
NESTLE’S
CONDENSED MILK
Made in Australia .


mPAM
Quality
Footwear
ABBEY SHOES
are well known for their quality and
distinctive styles.
The boot illustrated is a superior-quality
Patent Oxford Hal., Dull Calf Leg.
Stocked ill three fittings—narrow, medium
and wide.
PRICE, 84/-
AU Patent Bals. . . 84/-
Tan Bals 67/6
POSTAGE EXTRA.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres -Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. MclN 10SH.
•J- IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Last Two Nights of THE SAVING GRACE
SATURDAY NEXT, AT THE MATINEE.
ROBERT COURTNEIDGE’S ENGLISH COMEDY
COMPANY IN
BILLJIM.
A Play with a big punch.
Plans and the Tivoli. __
“piVOIiI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents Miss LEE WHITE,
in London’s Latest Musical Success,
THE GIRL FOR THE BOY.
“IT’S FRENCH—IT’S NOT RUDE.”
Prices as usual.
HE R Ma.IES T Y ’ S. sVDN K V.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LT D.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW ENGLISH COMEDY
COMPANY in
YES, UNCLE.
A Musical Comedy in two acts.
With DOROTHY BRUNTON.
Plans at Paling’s.
CK I T E RI O N T H IS A T R U- SYDNEI.
Lessees: J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE MUSICAL COMEDY SUPREME,
IRENE.
Plans at Paling’s.
A LA C IS TIIISA T R E. SYDNEY.
Lessees: J. & N. TAIT.
Direction J. C. W’ILLIAMSON Ltd.
Farewell Season of MARIE TEMPEST and
GRAHAM BROWNE.
Last Two- Nights of COUSIN KATE.
NEXT SATURDAY, OCTOBER 23.
MRS. DOT.
Somerset Maugham’s Delightful Comedy.
Plans at Nicholson’s. '
u
N lON I* ICTU R 15 THKA T R K H
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE. LYRIC. EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
KING’S THEATRE. ELISOC It N E.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
Direction Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents the
ALL-AUSTRALIAN MUSICAL COMEDY,
F. F. F.
By C. J. DE GARIS & REG A. A. STONEHAM.
Cast includes MINNIE LOVE, MARIE LE JARRE,
CHARLES WORKMAN, HUGH STEYNE, REX
LONDON, MAGGIE MOORE, etc. Box Plan at Allan s.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE,
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Revival of GILBERT & SULLIVAN OPERAS.
PINAFORE.
THEATRE ROYAL.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 23.
THE BOY.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Amusements.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN & JOHN FULLER, LTD.
Sole Direction ALLAN WILKIE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of ALLAN WILKIE and MISS
HUNTER-WATT'S in Shaksneare's Romantic Farce.-
THE COMEDY OF ERRORS.
NEXT SATURDAY EVENING,
TWELFTH NIGHT.
FOR SIX NIGHTS ONLY.
Box plan now open at the Pianola (’Phone 9674).
Special concessions to parties of students.
PLAYHOUSE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 23.
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN COMEDY IN THE
DAINTY THEATRE,
THE BOSS COCKLE.
DIRECTION AUSTRALIAN PLAYS, LTD.
|y| A.TESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
NORMA TALMADGE in
THE WOMAN GIVES.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
• RITANMA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Amusements.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
'HITS WEEK’S FEATURES:
THE FOX SPECIAL EXTRAORDINARY,
CHECKERS.
PRISCILLA DEAN in
SHE HIRED A ?
Prices as usual.
QLYMPIA, WIRTHS’ PARK, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
WIRTH RROS.’ NEW CIRCUS, LTD.
THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
T THE
GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
M
ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SF.LZNICK. '
g
sdg
“Music perfectly Re-Created —■
not reproduced."
An instrument
to be proud of
Its perfect melody, as harmonious
as if it came direct from the
throat of the singer—in fact, it
is impossible to detect the differ-
ence —makes you happy in your
possession of
The New Edison
This instrument is a marvellous advancement
—as different from “talking machines” as a
Stradivarius is from an ordinary violin.
You’ll be captivated with the New Edison from the
very first time you hear it.
Let us send you Illustrated Literature, with full details
of this wonderful musical instrument. Free on request.
Write now.
THOMAS A. EDISON. LTD.. 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
The GREATEST MARVEL
d
OF THE AGE.
37 6
3716
gd
Hand Embroiderer
See Daily Demonstrations at MARCELLES, Pitt Street,
and DAVID JONES, LTD.
Free instruction given.
• Amusements.
Victoria Racing Club,
FLEMINGTON.
CUP WEEK.
Derby Day
Cup Day..
Oaks Day . .
Steeplechase Day
Stakes will amount
30th October
2nd November
4th November
6th November
to about £35,000.
The magnificent improvements add much to
the comfort of visitors.
H. BYRON MOORE, Secretary.
JMariijiuiit s.(Eo
Golf and Tennis Coats of
Connemara and Donegal
Hand-woven Irish Tweeds.
Leather Buttons.
Burberry Rainproofs.
Sporting Norfolks.
sgd
314 George Street
(near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay. •
TARIFF from 16/- per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 5/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all Particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
The Super Fx§ R Watch
M
N
FAIRFAY& ROBERTS LTV
Gent.’s O.F. Oxidised
Steel “Super Fx & R”
fully-jewelled Lever, 84 /•
The original
“Fx & R”
Watches are
known through-
o u t Austral-
asia for their
marvellous ac-
curacy and en-
durance.
But, as usual,
w e progress,
and so now we
are showing the
SUPER “Fx &
R” WATCH.
Tt s present
price is 84/- in
steel case, but
what a watch
it is! Every
latest improve-
ment known to
h o r o 1 o gical
science is in it.
It is jewelled in every part where wear
occurs. It will go with profound accuracy;
indeed, it is so accurate that a ship could be
steered to England by it.
For strength and standing up against hard
wear we unhesitatingly say that no watch the
world over equals the SUPER “Fx & R“ Watch.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
cash nnfv ure3 ' 23 8 25 Hunter Street.


Overall, McCray Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
FOR IMMEDIATE DEUVERY.
OIL WELL. —Drilling Plants, Standard
and Rotary.
WATER WELL. —Drilling Plants for
depths 400 feet —4000 feet.
BOILERS. —Loco Type Tubular, 20-30
H.P.
ENGlNES.—Stationary Steam, 20-30 H.P.
ENGlNES.—Portable 6 H.P.
PIPE AND CASING.—Up to Min. dram.
AIR COMPRESSOR. —S te a m-d riven
capacity, 450 cubic feet.
ENGlNE.—Portable Kerosene, 12 H.P.
Stocks of Pumping material of every
description.
“SAMSON” WINDMILL.
[1
MOST WONDERFUL RESTORATIVE
FOR INFLUENZA, OVERWORK, WEAK STOMACH, .ANAEMIA, ETC.
A.B. WINE TONIC
MADE FROM BEEF, MALT, FINE OLD WINE, ETC.
A.B
coS^
Oil
sjstere
Pleasant and
Exhilarating'
(Registered.)
HAS WONDERFUL RECUPERATIVE
AND SUSTAINING QUALITIES.
The delightful assimilation of the Malted
Ingredients feeds the Wasted Tissues and
builds up the System.
OBTAINABLE RETAIL
EVERYWHERE.
Chemists, Licensed Grocers,
Merchants and Most Hotels.
4.RNOLD BROS. (Sole Proprietors), 384-386 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
SWIFT & eo., LTD., Clarence Street, Sydney, Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
® McEACHEBN ) Brisbane Street, Launceston, Agents for Tasmania.
DISTILLERS CO., LTD., Bazaar Terrace, Perth, Agents for West Australia.
Extra freights, etc., necessitate Inland Towns and Interstate Traders to
charge a little more than Melbourne Prices.
George hotel,
•St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Legal Notice.
TO JOHN BROUGHTON PIERCE, late
A.1.F., last heard of in Melbourne.
Your father, GEORGE PIERCE, died
recently at Southport. We are proving the
Will, and wish to communicate with you to
your advantage.
HAWTHORN & LIGHTOLLER.
Solicitors for the Executor,
303 Queen Street, Brisbane.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hub Majesty's “Yes, Uncle”
Criterion “Irene”
Palace “Mrs. Dot”
Tivoli “Billjim”
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Town Hall (23rd). .Sydney Choral Society: “Faust”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Pinafore”
Royal “The Boy”
King's “F. F. F.”
Princess's “Twelfth Night”
Playhouse . . “The Boss Cookie”
Tivoli “The Girl for the Boy”
Hoyt's De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciarium Dancing
Olympia Wirths’ Circus
♦
The Gilbert and Sullivan Co., at Mel-
bourne Majesty’s, was released from “Pati-
ence” after a week of that comparative
failure, and “Pinafore” got a warm welcome
on Saturday. The principals are service-
ably employed in “Pinafore,” and the male
chorus puts in admirable work. At the
outset of the second act two extra numbers
are interpolated for the crew of the Gil-
bertian battleship; also John Ralston has a
song with crew accompaniment, and eight
lady-tars dance a hornpipe with exciting
after-effects. The result of these additions
to the old opera is more than satisfactory.
The big, manly voice of Ralston, as the
bos’n’s mate, seems to have been strength-
ened and smoothed out by the recent passage
of a light cart-wheel over* his neck, and-when
lie proclaims the virtues of Ralph Rack-
straw’s nationality his top note is an inspir-
ing item in the general uproar which Slap-
offski so ably conducts. James Hay, a
trifle hard in his silvery tenor this time, is
a spare and saturnine Ralph, but he artisti-
cally emphasises the humor of his lines, and
harmonises with the melodramatic tone of
Strella Wilson’s melodious Josephine, who,
by the way, is a mock-melodrama character.
Australia is to lose Miss Wilson very soon,
it is said, and meantime she is making her
departure a matter for regret. She is the
stuff that notable prima donnas are made of.
No Dick Deadeye has scored more points
than Yilliers Arnold, nor has any Little
Buttercup answered the purpose better than
Ethel Morrison, though she is not old, fat, or
contralto enough for the Buttercup that Gil-
bert intended. Miss Morrison gets there by
being just cheery, sweet and forcible. Hobbs,
on the other hand, is a decorative but un-
forcible Captain Corcoran, who somehow
misses the mark with his song to the Moon;
Walenn is true to Sir Joseph Porter type,
and Patti Russell, crudely made-up, is a
rather. insignificant leader of his sisters,
cousins and aunts.
This week “Cousin Kate” is employing
Marie Tempest and Graham Browne at Syd-
ney Palace. It cuts deeper than most
comedies and gives the little star a chance
of running mouse-like up and dow r n the full
length of the emotional keyboard. It’s a
“THE COMEDY OF ERRORSAT
MELBOURNE PRINCESS’S.
The two Dromios (Edward Landor and
Arthur Goodsall).
pleasure to watch her at it. As Cousin Kate,
the .sole worldly prop of a little, self-con-
tained country family, she is hurriedly called
from her London job of writing popular
novels to comfort the Pure Young Daughter
who has driven off her laughter-loving Irish
fianc6 on the eve »>f their marriage by a burst
of wowserism—all inspired by the local
01 to, who wants the girl himself. On the
way down Cousin Kate meets the straying
lover in the train and, without knowing who
he is, falls in love with him. They part,
apparently for ever, only to meet again un-
expectedly in the house he has prepared for
his sainted bride-to-be. They have both gone
there to air the premises. Again no intro-
ductions are attempted, and there is a whole
act of light flirtation. In the end, after
Kate has proved herself a Brave Little
Woman, a Sport and a Brick, the village
girl gets the curate she deserves, and the
delectable heroine gaily takes the arm of
her debonair Irishman. “Mrs. Dot” is due
on Saturday.
In “The Saving Grace” at Sydney Tivoli
Charles Haddon Chambers shows that at 60
he can still write crisp comedy. And he
contrives to get humorous effects out of
unpromising materials. Unpromising, be-
cause the setting is England in the dark
days of 1914 and the central figure is a finan-
cially-embarrassed captain whom the War
Office won’t employ because in years past
he eloped with his colonel’s wife. Round
the manoeuvres, financial and military, of
this luckless veteran, the play is written.
It is one part action and 99 parts dialogue.
When the seven characters don’t sit round
and talk they hang round and talk. But
the talk is good of its kind, and the people
are natural. It is. a one-man piece, and of
slight construction at that, but within its
limits it is a winner. George Tullv’s imper-
sonation of the regimental blood, grown
middle-aged and impecunious but saved by
his sense of humor, is a convincing bit of
work, and Marie Rignold is capital as the
distressed warrior’s wife —in fact, it is the
most admirable thing she has given us dur-
ing the present season. Margaret Swallow
hasn’t much to do, but she makes a charm-
ing ancl capable young person of the cap-
tain’s niece. For the rest, Ronald Ward in
a “silly ahss” part, Leslie Lester as his
watchful mother, and Blanche Massey and
Frederick Moyes as two impassioned ser-
vants are sufficiently good. On Saturday
“Billjim,” a British comedy with a Digger-
hero, goes up.
An audience which had mostly backed
Eurythmic found much to its liking in the
boisterous fun of Allan Wilkie’s “Comedy of
Errors” at Melbourne Princess’s. Apparently
it was surprised that Shakspeare could dig-
out laughs nearly as well as Mr. Charles
Chaplin, and the enthusiasm with which the
farce was received makes it a source for
wonder that 49 years have elapsed since it
was produced on the Australian professional
stage. The chief difficulty of effective doubles
has been overcome with much success, Wilkie
and Guy Hastings as the brothers Antipho-
lous, and Edward Landor and Arthur Good-
sail as the Dromios, mixing themselves up
with cheerful zest and romping through. Miss
Hunter-Watts made Adriana a shrewish lady
who compared unfavorably with her sister,
Lorna Forbes. Vivian Edwards was a pic-
turesque Duke, and Jack Lennon spoke the
lengthy speeches of the twins’ father with
the unhalting tongue of a young man who
has worked hard. Helen Fergus as Aemilia
was a restful island in a sea of trouble. The
other outstanding points were the knees of
the guards, attendants and the like, pitilessly
revealed by the Grecian costumes designed by
Goodsall; and the dreadful writhings of j.
Castle Morris as Pinch, the schoolmaster.
The settings showed a further departure from
green baize curtains, but with only two acts
this was to be expected. The potion scenes
from “Romeo and Juliet” went before as a
-curtain-raiser, and gave Miss Hunter-Watts
a chance to show that she can be sweet and
graceful as well as . shrewish. Her Romeo,
Chris. Olgar, was recruited from melodrama,
but he did his share artistically. Again
Helen Fergus, the old-stager, was a pleasing
feature, on this occasion as the nurse. The
show, though it must have presented diffi-
culties owing to the lack of tradition, is,
viewed from various angles, the best Wilkie
has given this season.
* * * *
Dorothy South, Chester Clute and other
members of -the cast of “Irene” at Sydney
Criterion say that if there isn’t a change of
bill shortly they will become mentally
affected. The strain of repeating the same
lines month after month is awful. But the
public callously persists in crowding to the
show, and the stars have no option but to
square their jaws and plug on.
% $ >!< sfc
The title “Yes, Uncle!” suggests a demure
little Sunday-school miss with eyes cast down
dutifully answering a senior wowser. But
the Sydney Majesty’s frivol, with Dor
/Brunton in the lead, isn’t a bit like that.
The Sydney Uni. Dramatic Society is to
do “She Stoops to Conquer” at St. James’s
Hall on October 26 and 27. Plan at Pal-
ing’s.
A season of magic bunkum is soon to start
at Sydney Royal. “Chefalo and Palermo,
the Reigning King of Magicians,” is the
signboard, and the bystander is left wonder-
ing what Chefalo is, if he isn’t also Palermo.
This and other mysteries will be unravelled
on October 30.
$ $ $ $
“The Jackeroo of Coolabong,” at Sydney
Crystal Palace and Lyric, contains all the
features that went to the making of “The
Lure of the Bush,” and Snowy Baker is
once again demonstrator of how Young Aus-
tralia can ride and dive and shoot and fight
with his fists. Kathleen Key, the quaint little
American importation, does not even contrive
to look like an Australian girl. The station
where the film was made supplied not only
the backgrounds but the supers too, all hands
and the cook (it took them a week to get
the* make-up off) being drafted into the pic-
ture. The Strand gives Eugene O’Brien
something to do this week besides playing-
hands, the Perfect Lover having become
“The Figure Head.” Eugene finds himself
let in for polities and a free-to-all in defence
of his best girl’s honor; and of course he
comes out of it with an 0.8. E. Sydney
Lyceum features Jack London’s “Burning
Daylight,” the tale of a man from the
“ OLIVER. TWIST.” AT SYDNEY
GRAND OPERA HOUSE.
Austen Milroy as Fagin, and Rutland
Beckett as Bill Sikes.
Yukon who makes a haul out of New York
mine-floaters. Carton’s “Lord and Lady
Algy” take up the rest of the sheet, horses
and women forming the theme of a fast-
moving story.
At Melbourne King’s the fortunes of
“F.F.F.” are still trembling in the balance,
whilst opportunities for introducing further
music and ginger into the honestly Aus-
tralian production are sticking out as be-
fore.. The intentions of author De Garis are
good, and Stoneham’s music, vaguely re-
miniscent of airs which never die but are
often camouflaged, leaves little to be desired
except more of it. The second act often
wants lifting as Maggie Moore and Workman
lift it with their elderly duet. Seeing that
the story is fragile and conventional in
fictitiousness the management could have
afforded to introduce as many interruptions
as you get in an ordinary Tivoli romance,
where tiie course of true narrative never
runs smooth. Yet the sort of interruption
that Marie La France commits is clearly out
of place, like the old-time striped-vest and
cockaded groom’s hat of Rex London, who
figures on the programme as a footman, and
acts more as a sedative than a tonic. The
place of Minnie Love in the original cast is
now filled by Winifred O’Connor; and this
bright young Australian girl will do all right
if she isn’t too well satisfied with her present
vocal and histrionic equipment.
. “Kissing Time” is limited to two more
nights at Melbourne Royal, and on Satur-
day comes “The Boy,” which is Pinero’s
“The Magistrate” turned into musical
comedy. The co. loses Leonard, but gathers
in Florence Young and Roy Redgrave for
this show; and a special importation for
the name-part makes his first Melbourne
appearance.
“The Girl for the Boy” proceeds as usual
at the Melbourne Tivoli. Clay Smith con-
tinues to set his American accent sternly
against the candid allurements of Miss Lee
White, but that winsomely deliberate lady
eventually persuades him to accept her for
what she is, with all her alleged millions
thrown in, and the general feeling of the
public is that the lady amounts to more than
Smith deserves.
❖
At Melbourne Playhouse the approach of
“The Boss Cockie” is announced. Henley
Night is not a very good time for attract-
ing the multitude to Randolph Bedford’s
Australian comedy, but it is the best
in the year for letting the world around
the Yarra know that something is happen-
ing at the Playhouse.
When you come to Wirths’ Circus in Mel-
bourne the first thing that strikes the rav-
ished senses at Olympia is the dear familiar
smell of monarchs of the jungle in durance
vile; the next the smartness and newness of
decorations and costumes. The management
gives one an impression of money to burn
and business to boom. Goings on in the
arena are, perhaps, on a larger scale of mar-
vellousness than before, so the crowd that
filled the great building last Saturday was
very pronounced in its approbation. Many
of the best acrobatic turns had been there
the last time the circus came to Melbourne,
but Apdale's Zoo and Circus (a particular
delight . for the nippers), and a Chinese
novelty act, not to mention the gentleman
who skates down an incline on his devoted
head, were new both in substance and in
fact. Among the gee-turns the miniature
racehorse Brisbane put the well-remembered
nose of Earl Dudley out of joint. The
Howards were fully twice as mysterious as
they were 12 months ago, the Charlie Chap-
lin clown looked likely to be keeping Charlie's
memory green after the original has retired
from notoriety, find Dan Goslin’s trained
geese were accountable for more scream than
ever.
Jjs sjc »Jc
Melbourne’s picture theatres are excep-
tionally busy these times. “Even as Eve,”
at the Majestic, features Grace Darling and
Marc McDermott in the foreground of an
ornate romance, and on the same screen
Betty Blythe and Mahlon Hamilton teach
how to come a cropper through the extrava-
gance of a little bit of fluff, and what ought
to be done under the circs. The title is
“The Third Generation.” At Hoyt’s De
Luxe the lively melodrama of “Checkers” is
right up to the sporting moment in a scene
where people are picked up from a boat by
an aeroplane and removed Ao a distant race-
course in time to make the dead bird right
for the anxious hero. At Lyceum and De
Luxe the experiment of hiring a husband
is tried ny Priscilla Dean ; and then Priscilla
decides to buy the goods outright. Hoyt’s
talk of the “Man from Snowy River” as
an imminent attraction. At the Melba “The
Flaipper” deals with the girlish amours of
one Genevieve, a character that was played
by Olive Thomas. And at the Britannia the
art of Anita Stewart gets elbow-room in
“The Fighting Shepherdess.”
# sjc
Among many recent good concerts in
Adelaide three have been notable. The
Bach Society gave the “Passion” music, with
Prof. Davies conducting, Sylvia Whitington
leading and George Gardner at the organ.
Leslie Martin displayed a brilliant tenor
voice, and the chorus work was' fine. At
the Conservatorium there was a scholarly
and instructive chamber-music recital, with
a fine string quartette—Gerald Walenn,
Cade, Harold Parsons and Sylvia Whiting-
ton. And Brewster Jones at the Town
Hall gave a long evening at the piano, rang-
ing easily from Beethoven to Debussy.
* *
John D. O’Hara is so popular at Adelaide
Royal that the “Lightnin’ ” season has to be
extended. John recklessly tells interviewers
that Australia is “the finest country God
ever made,” careless of what his own coun-
trymen may say to him if they hear it. He
is ably abetted by Lizette Parkes and Marion
Marcus Clarke, the latter looking curiously
like Emma Temple. Esmelton and Diana
Wilson are polished and unusual in the
comedy parts, and another newcomer, Robert
Toms, scores as the untrained advocate who
uses his cross-examination of a witness to
express undying affection. Business is
large. At West’s is a nicely-balanced pic-
ture programme, H. B. Warner in “Haunt-
ing Shadows,” with the reckless fun of
“Don’t Ever Marry.” At Wondergraph
Ethel Clayton serves up Cave Man stuff to
a tardy lover, disclosing at the end that the
whole thing has been a big bluff. And Eslick
at the Palais Royal continues to claim that
his business is to dispense with happiness.
Renee Maxwell is to play lead in the Tait
production of “The Lilac Domino.” Renee’s
tour through Maoriland was struck short—
water and rail strikes this time.
Ada Crossley, who is now in S. Africa,
took £2OO at her concert on board the
Demosthenes to hand to the Shipwrecked
Seamen’s Fund. She may call on Australia
before returning to England; but her pro-
gramme is not yet settled.
On Thursday the 28th the Ryde Home for
Incurables will hold its yearly meeting and
concert in Sydney Town Hall. The State Ex.
and Justice Gordon will be the speakers,
and the best of Sydney’s musical fountains
will play. There is no charge. Searl’s or
Nicholson’s will hand over an admission
ticket on demand.
“Middle Blue”: Young Australia has no
illusions about the stage to-day. During
an interval at the three-quarter-American
musical comedy “Irene” I overheard one
flapperette say to another: “The scenery’s
pretty, but I can’t understand a word they’re
saying. Can you?” “Ok, no,” replied the
other, “you never can on the stage.”


RACE CUPS, etc.
For over fifty years now the Firm have supplied
most of the leading Race Cups and Sports Trophies.
Their selection offers a wide range of dignified
designs of best London manufacture, and their
workshop is equipped to manufacture specially-
designed Cups in either Gold or Silver. Designs
and estimates will be forwarded to any address
in the Commonwealth.
®Sm. Brummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
n
0003
RE
Nothing upsets the Happy
Spirit of the Picnic Party
so much as hitches in the catering. And here s a
wise suggestion to all who are on “picnic bent.
Slip a couple of tins of —
REX HAM PATE or
REX VEAL & TONGUE PATE
and a half loaf of bread into the hamper. Then if the other
supplies “run out” you can save the situation easily.
But the best course to pursue is to take plenty of
sandwiches with you, and with the twin Rex Pates as a
filling” that’s an easy problem.
Rex Pates are all pure meat with the most delectable
flavor imaginable. Packed in hygienic tins, free from
solder flux. Sold everywhere.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon
I 3925
o
£
'A
VEA^
AIMD i
SUPPLIED TO DEFENCE DEPT. FOR MILITARY HOSPITALS.
Invaluable for
Nerve Troubles, Headaches,
Kidney 8 Liver Derangements.
All Chemists and Stores—in Tins, 2/6 and 4/6.
NEVER SAY DYE—SAY
m
I
Wa
*3
m
m
m
m
($>
THE “ TINTEX GIRL,” in her sporting clothes
Is chic and pretty wherever she goes ;
At tennis or hockey or golf, the eye
Of the passing male she takes —and why :
Well, just because she’s bright and sweet,
Her clothes are old, but they look so neat,
She keeps them new, and the cost is small,
For TINTEX DYE transforms them all.
TINTEX,
the famous Cold Water Dye, is ideal for
Sports Coats, Mufflers, or other "Woollen
Garments. It is clean, easy to use, and
lasting. It harms neither the hands nor
the material. It is used exactly the same as
blueing, and is unequalled for dyeing Silks
or Lingerie. Obtainable everywhere in a
large variety of shades. Ask for Tintex.
Sold Everywhere for 9d. per packet.
?he New Season’s Colour, Saxe Blue, now ready for delivery.
DYTEX
the All-British fast boiling Dye,
for dyeing Silks, Cottons, and
Heavy Woollens. Does-for heavy
fabrics what Tintex does for
lighter material.
Price : 10%d. per Packet.
DVTEK


Use Cocoanut Oil
For Washing Hair.
Girls and women who wish to keep their
hair in nice condition should be most cautious
in the soap they wash it with. Most
soaps and ready-mixed shampoos contain
excessive quantities of alkali. This dries
the scalp, makes the hair brittle and is very
injurious. Just ordinary colinated cocoanut
oil (a pure, saponified but quite greaseless
liquid) is far better than the most costly
soap you could possibly use for a shampoo,
for this cannot possibly hurt your hair.
Merely wet your hail* with water and rub it
on. A couple of teaspoonsful makes a perfect
flood of rich, thick, creamy lather, and
cleanses both hair and scalp thoroughly. The
lather rinses out easily, and takes with it
every trace of dust, dirt, dandruff or excessive
oiliness. The hair dries quickly and evenly,
and comes out fine and silky, bright, glossy
and fluffy, appearing to be heavier than it is.
And. best of all. this colinated cocoanut oil
leaves the hair as easy to dress again as
though you hadn't washed it at all. You can
get colinated cocoanut oil at most any chemist,
but be sure it’s “colinated.” which is not
expensive—« few ounces lasting a long, long
time
IM PORT ANT: Do not confuse colinated cocoanut
oil with cheaper sticky, emulsified cocoanut oils
or other substitutes. There is only one genuine
colinated oil, as recommended above.
PAIN VANISHES! CORNS LIFT OUT
AFTER FEW DROPS.
Let To-day’s Corn Pain be Your Last Corn Pain.
Lift Any Corn or Callous Out with Finger-tips.
Wonderful! Girls! Save it a Corner on Dressing-stand.
*
Milo bunkum! No bother! Corns,
callouses —hard or soft —sore or
Sensitive—all yield and loosen
and lift off —absolutely pain-
lessly.
This newly-found com-
pound is named Frozol-
Ice, and is still another
use of that great medi-
cal discovery “ether.”
Stop at any chemist's for
a little bottle of Frozol-Ice,
costing but a trifle, but which is ample
to free the feet from each and every
corn and callous.
Apply some drops on to a delicate
corn or callous. Like a flash the soreness
vanishes, and soon the corn or callous peels
right off with the finger-tips.
Frozol-Ice is absolutely non-irritant, doesn’t
even inflame the surrounding healthy flesh.
Just fancy! ’No agony at all. no sting or sore-
ness while using, or afterwards, simply a
shrivelling, drying up of corns and callouses.
Girls! Save a corner on your dressing-
table for Frozol-Ice, and never be the “wall- 1 '
flower” of the ballroom again. Just some
drops of Frozol-Ice when corns begin aching.
Pain disappears—corn dies!
True Frozol-Ice is flattered by worthless
imitations. Avoid them by insisting on the
green label.
If Favorite Foods
Upset Stomach
Take Magnesia.
If some of the foods you like best do not
agree with you and make your stomach sour
or burn, producing acid indigestion, do not
think you must give up eating these good
things, and do not, either, make the mistake
of swallowing pepsin pills or soda water after
every meal. Instead just make a practice of
taking ‘a teaspoonful of pure Salix Magnesia
in half a glass of hot water right after eating.
The hot water will force a needed blood
supply to your stomach, and the Salix Mag-
nesia will instantly neutralise any excess of
stomach acid, and your digestion will be
natural and painless. Salix Magnesia is not
a laxative, and its continued use is entirely
harmless, as it never weakens natural diges-
tion. It can be obtained at any well-stocked
chemist’s shop (in powder or compressed tab-
lets form). Be sure to get Salix Magnesia. Do
not use other forms of magnesia for this
purpose.
POVERTY
POINTS
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Steele Rudd”: “75” (London) and other
irresponsible* who are in pain lest “On Our
Selection” should not be a good advertise-
ment for Australia had better see a herbalist.
The “Selection” wasn’t written to advertise
Australia any more than “Les Miserables”
was written to advertise France or the “Book
of Job” to boost boils. But if Bert Bailey
mentioned in London that “0.0.5.” characters
were taken from life, he merely mentioned
something that was true, and for which he
in no way was responsible; and if “75”
says they were not, he’s an ignoramus, and
is seriously prejudicing his chances of going
to Heaven when he dies—if wise people of
his pattern ever die! The “Selection” types,
however, do not represent “outback” life in
Australia; their run is very much “inback.”
They came from the Darling Downs, and the
Darling Downs is the dress-circle of Queens-
land. That is why “Uncle’s” wardrobe is
so extensive. And, by the way, Uncle is
not a real Australian —he only graduated in
Australia. Originally he came from London.
That “Londoners will find some difficulty in
“IRENE,” AT SYDNEY CRITERION.
Vera Hinkle singing “Hobbies.”
recognising in these freaks the Diggers they
saw so much of” is humorous, also silly.
Fancy looking for Dad and Maloney and
Cranky Jack and old Uncle and old Carey
amongst the A.1.F.! But there were lots of
Daves and Dans to be found there. I know,
because, as chairman of a country war coun-
cil and a recruiting committee, I helped
some of them into uniform. T’other day I
inquired from a returned Digger who saw
much of the Tommy forces on the other side
if he had noticed any Pickwicks or Sam
Wellers, Dombeys or B. Sikeses, Micawbers,
Quilps or Heeps amongst them. “Not a
dam’ one/’ he answered. And so—well,
jusso.
“Dido": I. offer the Duke of Plaza Toro
as the best acting part in the whole range
of comic opera. The character, though satu-
rated with humor, is consistent throughout,
rational, yet absurd to any range the com-
edian may possess. It is musical, it gives
a dancer good opportunities, and the dress-
ing and make-up can be as quaint as heart
may desire—short, of course, of the vulgar-
isms so attractive in pantomime dames.
He is a bad actor indeed who cannot get
considerable effect with the delightful
grandee, and a good one can make Plaza
Toro an everlasting joy, a thing to be recol-
lected with a satisfaction almost as keen
as that experienced in first witnessing it.
The Duke is not only the richest possible
burlesque; he is a distinctly human concep-
tion.
“Stargazer” : At risk of being classed as
a woeful back number, soul-anchored in the'
past, I say that every performance of his
familiar comic-opera characters I see
strengthens my opinion that Howard Vernon
was the finest Gilbertian comedian we have
had in’ this country. I saw “The Gondoliers”
the other night, and to my amazement found
the Grand Inquisitor going for nothing. lie
really did not
amount to a row
of dried be an-
stalks in this revi-
val, and I argued
fairly that since
a n experienced
musical burlesouer
like Albert Ivav-
anagh can get so
little where Ver-
non got so much,
II oward was a
finer artist than
we gave him credit
for bei n g, warm
admirers though
we were. These
sentiments do not
spring wholly from
the one odious
comparison. Prac-
tically every per-
former in the
parts that Vernon
created here, it
seems to me,
misses much of the
suave, grave humor
of the characters,
and I resent them
to some extent as
containing foreign
elements and being
at variance with
t ill e Gilbertian
spirit. There is
always more than
a suspicion of
the later comic-
opera manner and
“Irene,” at Sydney
Criterion.
Rawdon Blandford as
Larry Hadley.
methods in these new men that is a trifle
vulgar and essentially cheap. Vernon is to
have a ben. in Melbourne at an early date,
and I think there are sufficient people in
the metropolis with my point of view to
make it a big ben.
“Two Seas” from his selection:—
Few of our men Outback will be surprised to read
the London critics’ opinions of “On Our Selection”
. (B. 7/10/’2O). When the intention to take it over-
seas was first mentioned I suggested that, if neces-
sary, a special Act of Parliament should be passed to
stop the burlesque of Outback life from imperilling
our chance of filling up Australia’s empty spaces
with British farmers; for even the most enthusiastic
B.F. would shrink from living among the drivelling
idiots that Bert Bailey had the hide to introduce
to his first-night London audience as “typical inhabi-
tants of Outback.” Such an announcement at a Syd-
ney performance wouldn’t matter much. To Sydney
people, save those who do business with him, the
farmer has always been a cheap joke, and the Sydney
cockney, when lured to the bush, helps (while he
lasts) to brighten the Cocky’s dull existence; for
there is no imported newchum to equal him as a
joy. Honors are therefore easy. But in rural Eng-
land, from which we hope to attract reinforcements
for our dwindling army of producers, even Old Dad
and his tribe may be taken seriously.
The real men Outback were tired of the Old Dad
joke long before it drifted to London —tired of hav-
ing it hailed by our own city people as “true to
life,” and weary of the weedy youths who, inspired
by a sight of the atrocity, came to the bush to laugh
and remained to weep. During 30 years of the Back-
blocks I have never had the luck to meet anything
faintly resembling Dad and his looney litter. The
nearest approach to them may be found on “the
Oxbry” and around Parramatta occasionally—the
descendants of men who clung to the fringe of the
first settlements. Where they were dropped they
stopped. But the men who struck out west in
search of wider spaces were mostly able to
hold their own in any company, and their sons
are far more at home in the city than the city-bred
youth is in the bush. The latter’s ignorance of
the most elementary things about his native land out-
side the pony-racing area is well nigh incredible,
and any man Outback who has watched his antics on
a farm and listened to his cocksure remarks about
everything connected with it ought to be able to
write a funnier production than “On Our Selection”
without even jarring the truth.
“Adelaide”: Curious how even a clever
player can miss a point. The pretty maid-
servant in “F.F.F.” is busy on domestic
duties when the man drifts in and makes
conversation with “Dusting the furniture?”
As she is very obviously doing that and
nothing else, she replies to the foolish ques-
tion with the first absurdity that occurs to
her, “No, I’m skating!” But Marie Le
Varre presumably graduated in the school
of the variety stage, where you must “illus-
trate” everything, grabbing at your heart
whenever you sing of your affections, and
hailing any mention of sleep with two hands
folded by one ear and a head affecting to
recline on them. So. instead of making the
“skating” reply the good-natured jeer that
it is, she actually slides a little on the carpet,
and knocks all the point out of the mild
joke.
“T.S.”: The death of G. W. Anson recalls
the real reason of his visiting Australia.
About 1883 a quite worthless play by Wilkie
Collins was produced at the Adelphi, Lon-
don, and hissed on the first night. Anson,
who was stage-manager, one of the cast and
a personal friend of the author, lost his
temper and told the audience what he
thought of it—on which it became uncon-
trollable. After that managers were shy
about engaging him, and he found it wiser
to travel. Tree and Asclie were his best
friends when ho ventured back to England.
By a coincidence, the Marquis of Queens-
berry died the same week as Anson. And it
was his father who, also in 1883 or there-
abouts, caused an equal row by standing up
in his place in the stalls of the Globe, and
interrupting an equally worthless play by
Tennyson. “The Promise of May,” protest-
ing—till he was thrown out —against the
“free thinker” villain of the piece being
called an “atheist.”
“Yarra Ben”: After all. “F.F.F.” is not
such a bad title for a musical piece. It keeps
you guessing, anyway, and gets away from
the eternal whirl of “girl” without which,
until very recently, no song-and-dance piece
could hope for popular consideration. After
the “girl” the "boy”—natural and inevitable.
In Bourke-street the posters of “The Girl
for the Boy” at the Tivoli face those of
“The Boy” at the Theatre Royal, and only
a little .while ago we had “Oh, Boy.” Eng-
land’s librettists are suffering from over-
work.
“Tito”: Verbrugghen’s attitude to his
audiences is reminiscent of starchy old Kav-
anagh’s treatment of his “clients.” Once,
fitting a man who was full of suggestions
and remarks, he exploded: “Here, you're
only the customer! I'm the tailor."
Ben J. Fuller returned from a 35,000-mile
trip in the same suit and the same hat in
which he went away, but with three deep
impressions in his mind —the ease with
which one can buy a drink in a prohibition
country, the price one has to pay for it, and
the fact that there are as talented enter-
tainers in Australia as out of it.
Rita Murphy, the little Sydney girl who
has a job booking Fuller vaudeville acts in
the States, enthuses over a holiday trip to
Santa Barbara, Santa Catalina and ’way
down to Mexico, where there wasn't a bull-
fight in sight—a disappointment for Rita,
who, as stadium press-agent, at one time was
a privileged witness of many gory contests.
Ben Fuller, jun., parted with pa at Frisco,
and remains to help her spot the vaudeville
winners.
“Ox”: Uncle Sam Pussyfoot, seeking
fresh things to prohibit, has turned his atten-
tion to play and movie titles. “The Naughty
Bride” and “She Walked in Her Sleep”
came under suspicion ; but, apparently, “Not
To-night, Dearie,” failed to raise a blush.
“Mirza”: Scots’ Church, Melbourne, the
very comfortable and wealthy kirk of the
Naicest McTarvishes, has four professional
choristers. They receive, for appearing at
Friday-night rehearsal and divine service
(twice) on Sunday, £3O per annum. They
are allowed an annual fortnightly vacation ;
otherwise they must attend or instal a
deputy—at their own expense, ye ken. Re-
cently these professional warblers intimated
that they were feeling the pinch of the high
price of haggis, and this so appealed to the
Board of Management that, instead of lifting
the yearly screw by 30s. or anything like
that, it raised the pay by £5, which works
out at eightpence per attendance. If there
isn’t a note of joy in the anthems after this,
the McCashboxes will lose their faith in
siller.
“C. Ockney”: A bright Amurkan manager
is, I guess, responsible for christening Somer-
set Maugham’s latest comedy “Too Many
Husbands.” As to the author sanctioning
the change of title, which “Adelaide” (B.
14/10/’2O). is curious about, when it was
staged in England on August 30 last year
it was billed as “Home and Beauty” (which
I quite agree is more suitable), but it had
been produced three weeks before in the
U.S.A. as “Too Many Husbands.” From
this it is tolerably certain that Maugham
was not guilty of the moving-picture libel.
“Tarwin”: The film version of “On Our
Selection” makes two mistakes in Dad’s
dressing. To inflict a swallow-tail coat on
the old man was bad enough, but a later
scene shows him in pyjamas. Dad in
pyjamas! He never heard of ’em.
LUCKY ESCAPE.
G ERTIE: “Last night there were two sticks
of make-up in my box, and now there's
only one!"
LIE: “It was so dark when I came in,
dearie, that I didn't see the other.”
“T. 0.1.”: An unusual impersonator of
Hamlet in the late ’sixties was Eliot Yorke,
who came to Australia on the staff of the
Duke of Edinburgh. For a lady’s benefit
he appeared in one act and pleased the dress-
circle, at any rate. He was a handsome,
florid young fellow, with curly hair. Yorke
later on entered the House of Commons for
Cambridgeshire, and married a daughter of
Anthony Rothschild.
“Corio”: When counting great Austra-
lian cornetists don’t let us omit Percy Jones,
of Geelong (Vic.). As a youngster of 16
or 17 he won championships at South-street
and other competitions. Before the war
his friends and admirers raised sufficient to
allow him three years’ tuition in Germany
and Austria. Percy was an inmate of St.
Augustine’s Orphanage, Geelong, and led the
band (composed of lads between 9 and 16
years of age) to victory against all-comers
at Ballarat for several seasons in succession.
I don’t know how Percy Jones’s income
compares with Percy Coad’s, but I know
he could earn much more if it wasn’t for
his fixed idea of patriotism to Geelong.
He thinks he owes it to the town to remain
there. And, between you and me, I like
him all the more for it.
“Snell”: American ingenuity has failed to
provide an effective word for the picture-
actor. If you speak of him you still have
to say “film-actor” or “actor for the pic-
tures.” Since mum’s the word with the
picture-player, why not assign to him the
good old “mummer”?
“Ike Pagliacci”: The activities of the
Actors’ Federation recalls the few irregular
spurts made by the old Australian Vaude-
ville Artists’ Association. “Pipeclay” Wal-
lace, the “Petrified Woman” showman, was
one of the first with whom the members got
to holts. He struck Geelong with a variety
show and the performers imparted the in-
formation that as they had joined the A.V.A.
they would have to receive more money.
“Pipeclay” had never heard of the A.V.A.,
but he paid what was asked and lost on his
season. In a Melbourne pub a few weeks
later a pal, who had just purchased the
Herald, remarked: “I see another of these
aviators has been killed.” “Serve him
well right,” said Wallace; “the blankers
lost me 20 quid at Geelong.”
“Umphus” : I got a shock and a glad sur-
prise to hear a music-shop customer ask for
a record of Dorothy Helmrich during the
week. The young Mosman (Sydney)
soprano has sung two melodies for one of
the best firms with great success.
“Seedy” : Is the small woman going out of
fashion at last? “Producers” are turning a
haughty stare upon the midgets these days,
and their more bulky sister is being invited
to step into the office. As she has been out
in the cold for nine years or so, she is doing
it eagerly.
THE FINEST HAMLET EVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I’ve known a hundred Hamlets, sir;
In England, here, and otherwhere
A hundred Hamlets 1 have known,
Reposeful Danes and turbulent —
A hundred Hamlets. One I own
Was certainly magnificent;
In figure and in action he
Was all the Danish prince need be.
“I saw r the best in England :ft:t,
Beheld the master Kean, in fact;
Alacreadv, too. in ’4B,
And Young and Kemble. Great these were,
But Irving (who came rather late)
Was to iny thinking only fair.
One Hamlet outshone all these stars
As Sol himself out-dazzles Mars.
“He had, 1 will admit to you,
Small notice from the hireling crew
Of scribes; hut never Hamlet glowed
So brilliantly upon the scene.
.Beside him other actors showed
As trifling pigmies on the green.
What grace, what vigor for the part,
What knowledge, and what wondrous art!”
I took the old man by the hand.
Said I: “Your attitude is grand.
I’ve seen it writ that envy glows
So hotly in the actor’s soul
That he will ne’er to other pros.
Give praise. That it’s a lie your dole
Of approbation, sir, has shown.”
“That Hamlet,” said he, “was mine own!”
VKITOItIA.
STARGAZER.


“Pay Less and Dress Better
CLOTHES and CLOTHES
WHAT A DIFFERENCE!
' Some tailor their clothes into everlasting service and style, while some press them
into shape—and pretend to have attained the same result.
MURDOCH'S
Cannot over-emphasise the fact that clothes
must be well tailored if they are to provide
satisfaction and service to the wearer, and
establish that confidence in us which we
desire.
And this does not mean neglecting the
materials, either.
Australian
All-Woollen Tweed
Suitings
ill specially-selected qualities in brown and
grey, check, plain or striped designs. We buy
direct from the mills, so that when you leave
your order here for your suit you benefit
considerably, as shipping freights, Customs
duties and warehousing expenses are elimi-
nated altogether. You get a
Made-to-Measure
SAC SUIT
951-
110|-, 1301-
Rely? Yes, you can rely entirely upon the
smart tailoring and workmanship, for we
have thoroughly competent cutters who will
give every attention to suit each individual
requirement.
We Pay Postage to any part of Australia .
Visit
Murdoch’s Modern Hairdressing Saloon
NO WAITING.
PRICES LOWER THAN ELSEWHERE.
%
/A
m
m
1
/
i
iiis
S>
m\
m
i//.
PATTERNS —if you would like them we will
send them to any address. Just mail your
order to
Messrs. Murdoch s in Park St., Ltd.,
Sydney, DESK R.
Please send me Patterns and Self-measurement,
Form of your Australian Woollen Tweed Suitings at
95 A, 110 A. 1307-
NAME
ADDRESS
MURDOCH'S
IN PARR STREET LTD., SYDNEY,
« World’s Largest Men’s and Boys* Wear Store.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIHITED, Redfern, Sydney.
Goldfinder Goon
LEWIS& WHITTY MELBOURNE: & SYhNIFY
LOOK THIS WAY
n m
FOR MEN OF ACTION
WE READILY RECOMMEND
Sand in Color. Twill in Quality
“ Santwill ” is a new two - pocket
Work Shirt. Light medium weight
and sand colored—a new color that
will not show the dust, in a cotton
quality that will outwear two of most
other Shirts. You’ll like its honest,
broad-shouldered comfort, cut full, not
“skimped.” The toughest Working
Shirt made.
3 FOR
Carriage Paid Everywhere !
Pike Brothers
L I MIT ED
Townsville Brisbane Toowoomba
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
Eurythmic s wins are the triumph of
action over faulty hindquarters. The Westralian
hero is an unimposing horse to follow as he walks.
Even now, when he has beaten a Caulfield Cup field
most handsomely, one cannot think him equal to
a Melbourne Cup task. His weakness must surely
find him out in the last half-mile. But his action!
it is the gait of the racer that can “go on for
ever. ’ It takes nothing out of the galloper. It is
easier than the movement of Desert Gold, or Wake-
ful, or any other horse you can mention that always
seemed to be winning in a canter when fully ex-
tended. And Eurythmic has the advantage over
most horses of his free-going type in being more
manageable. He doesn’t want his head from the
outset. He allows the boy on top to tell him what
is best to do under the circumstances, and for nearly
a mile in the Caulfield Cup he allowed top-weight
Finmark to race away in front of him. But
Eurythmic is' hardly likely to land the Melbourne
Clip with 9st. 41b. up. Accrington, for instance,
will meet him on 151 b. better terms, Tangaloona
and Queen Comedy on 161 b. better terms. White
Phast will be 131 b. better off, though it must be
admitted that the five-year-old, taking a line through
Salitros and Speciality, makes N. S. Wales handicap
form look almost as poor as it was this time last
year. Syce Knight beat White Phast and was
himself only beaten a neck by Ecarte in the
Metropolitan. Well, Salitros and Speciality beat
Knight in the Derby. On their running in
Melbourne they hadn’t much to beat at Randwick.
The hopes of N. S. Wales lie in the supposition that
neither of the Derby colts showed his true form —
or anything like it—on the right-handed Caulfield
course. There must be some sort of excuse to offer
for them.
For the fourth year in succession, naming the
Caulfield Cup winner in two tries has 1 been ah easy
job._ Beginning with the’ question between Brori-
zetti and Chrome in 1917, every newspaper has
spotted the winner. King Offa was the proverbial
cert. Last year the choice lay between Night
Watch and Lucknow, who finished first and second.
And this year the only thing to do with Eurythmic
—the cert, for weeks past—was to find fault with
his absurdly short price and suggest something better
worth backing at longer odds. This page suggested
Salitros, on the strength of his Sydney: Derby win,
and, indeed, 7 to 1 did seem a good price to get
about a nag that ran If mile in record Derby time
carrying 171 b. more than his Caulfield Cup weight.
The price was so good that it suggested a screw
loose somewhere. Salitros ran as though he couldn’t
possibly be the colt that took the cake at Randwick,
for he began to lose ground at the very point where
he .should have moved forward. Nevertheless, the
running of Speciality (a respectable Derby ’ per-
former) has been so completely in accordance with
the Salitros disappointment that an all-round poverty
of three-year-old form may be fairly argued. It
looks for the moment as though anything might win
the V.R.C. Derby next Saturday week.
There never was but Paratoo hr command of the
Caulfield Cup field until they were fairly in the
straight, when Eurythmic shot ahead and stayed in
front without apparent effort. Paratoo had had
enough of it. Likewise White Phast, who was always
in the van, next to the pacemaker. Only Accrington
Tangalooma and Queen Comedy had a dangerous kick
left in them, and Tangalooma nearly repeated the
pelformance of Night Watch last year in running
second to a stable companion. But Accrington
finishing strongly, pipped Tangalooma whilst Euryth-
mic was gliding gracefully past the post. Tanga-
looma was entitled to win if he could, for he had
run a good race three days earlier. The victory of
Accrington, on the other hand, would have been
highly unpopular. On .the same afternoon that
Tangalooma did so well, Accrington let his backers
down badly in the Coongy Handicap.
Eurythmic was at a longer price at Randwick than
Flemington. The books opened at j) to 4, and kept
at that quote right up to starting time. The favor-
ite was well backed at this figure, but there were
lots of cash for White Phast, Salitros, Red Dome,
Comedy Queen and Accrington.
* * * *
Faith in Drumore’s chance for the Mel-
bourne Cup was considerably impaired by his neck-
and-neck race with Tangalooma on the Wednesday
of the Caulfield meeting. There was an utter lack
of brilliancy about his performance. He was at a
disadvantage, of course, in having to make most of
the running, but he never made the pace very hot,
nor was he ever far ahead of the moderate Double
Bezique, who finished third. It seemed that Tanga-
looma wore the much-fancied Cup horse down at the
finish, not because he was the better stayer, but
because the other lacked a bit of dash for a final
effort. Drumore is a somewhat stodgy horse in
appearance, and he ran accordingly. He hasn’t the
symmetry of a first-class racer. His depth of chest
seems too great for his length, and his big barrel
will always,cause him to be sized up, at a casual
glance, as a horse short of condition even when he
is really as fit as the trainer can get him.
A tall, lengthy two-year-old that finds its
legs at once, and sprints away from the barrier, has
a pull over the conventional “small and early” sort,
as everybody knows. A good big one is always better
than a good little one. Some of the Melbourne
punters, have quite made up their minds that
Salatis, the big son of Shepherd King and flying
Tiaquette, is going through the season without a
defeat, seeing that he scored his second win over
4 4 furlongs much more easily than his first. Cer-
tainly he made pork and beans of the field in the
Nursery at Caulfield, carrying his penalty in a
seemingly effortless way, whereas Stare, the runner-
up, cut a poor little undignified figure in his futile
effort to catch the leader. Nevertheless the giant
son of Traquette is not thus far a better colt on
paper than Sefton, and maybe the filly Furious, who
won at Randwick over five furlongs, is faster than
either of them. Or Vaccine, the Breeders’ Plate
winner.
On the second day of the Dunedin (M.L.)
Spring Meeting the Guineas was a gift for Baronet
Clifford’s colt Winter Wind (Antagonist—Wind
THE FOUNTAIN HEAD.
"Do you think Nutmeg is trying in the next
race?"
“I es, the owner says he got it straight from
the jockey."
Whistle). He was five lengths to the good at the end
of the mile, and ran it in lmin. 40sec. Two flappers
m J. B. Reid’s Sunny Corner and Ruena (Solferino—
Ruenalf’s Daughter) were half a length apart in
the places. On the same day Amythas gave Benge-
roop (Calibre —Alumni) two stone and a licking in
the Ranfurly Handicap (1 mile). Bengeroop was
carrying Vst. 61b., but has only 6st. 71b. in the M.L.
Cup (2 miles) to be run November 6. The third
horse, Radial, takes off 271 b. for this race. The last
.fh „ 'P winner, Vagabond, heads the acceptances
with Bst. 131 b. and Snub has 51b. less.
Sydney Tatt.’s meeting at Randwick on
Saturday gave the apprentices a chance, most of the
ciack pilots being in Melbourne. The youngsters
abominably. Of the five events on the flat
Albert Wood captured a couple, Bill Lillyman two
and Jimmy Pike the other. Useful experience for
the tyros, no doubt, but exasperating to some of
the trainers, not to mention the public.
Sydney Damsel took Tatt.’s Handicap from a
small field after a battle in the straight with Yarral-
dool. Old Fortune Hunter made a brave effort to
butt into the argument. The little mare won’t race
much longer, being booked for a holiday, with the
stud to follow. Coolstone, another mare soon to
reUre, took the Flying. Carrying 9st. she ran the
six furlongs in Ilf,” just snapping Agar Wynne’s
Popinjay colt Fib on the post. S J
I ..^ mon f starters in the Novice Handicap was a
little, donkey-eared imported mare named All
Smiles. She was brought up from Melbourne by
Cecil Godby two or three weeks ago. If she had
won the s.p. merchants round Melbourne would have
been well and truly stung. And she nearly brought
it off. Starting from the outside of a field of 25
she got to the front near the turn and looked like
coming on. But the early effort had taken too much
out of her, and at the beginning of the seventh fur-
long she chucked it.
* * * *
An early shower, rendering the wickets
dead, gave catsmen the ascendancy in Sydney grade
cricket on Saturday. Seven made centuries, and
no bowler performed in representative style. Jack
Gregory (Sydney) got only one wicket —the result
of a brilliant one-handed catch in the sliyis by
Rowe—but he knocked up an exhilarating 80,
comprising 16 fourers. One of them took a paling
out of the Rushcutter’s Bay Oval fence. Jenkins,
another Sydneyite, took less risks against Central
Cumberland’s very medium bowling, and fell into
a trap after he’d made a finished 50. Gar. Waddy
(4S) and Cranney (105) played bright if not finished
cricket. Sydney was superb in the field. Tozer
(Gordon) treated all bowlers alike in compiling 211
against ’Varsity. He is a bit slow between the
wickets: otherwise Jim Mackay at his best was
no better. Diamond got a vigorous 80. Mary Ann
Noble, partial as ever to opposition, pulled Padding-
ton through against Balmain. His chanceless 105
consisted chiefly of shots in front of point and a
bit later. His club-mate, O’Keeffe (143), was a
shade less attractive but very solid. Austin Punch’s 129
(n.o.)_was made in fair style against Middle Harbor.
But his cut-stroke is a feeble affair. Andrews (Peter-
sham) probably has more strokes than any N. S.
Wales batsman, and in his 110 (n. 0.) against Glebe
he employed them all. Dr. Bogle made a swinging
105 (n. 0.) for Glebe, and •so confined Petersham’s
win to the first innings. Ives’s four for 45 for
Waverley gave them a win over the stronger Western
Suburbs batting side.
* * * *
A trial match has been arranged for next
Saturday between two teams of Sydney first-grade
players captained by Collins and Macartney. C. Grif-
fiths, from Banaitaiand, is said to be a wonder—a
left-handed Tom McKibbin. Interest also centres
on Oldfield and Carter. One of them will be the
Test ’keeper, and it is just possible that it mayn’t
be the veteran.
“AAV.”: “Look at the time he did it in!”
is a common expression amongst racing men when
eulogising their pet performer of the moment. Few
punters consider the conditions under which the
time is made. The influence which the direction
and strength of the wind has on races at Randwick
especially sprints, was emphasised again during the
-past Spring meeting. On the first day, with a
strong wind from the south to help them over the
last six furlongs, three records
were either equalled or broken.
On the Monday the wind came
from the north, and. records sur-
vived. The wind blew from the
south again on the final day,
though not as strong as on the
first day, and Julia Grey, who
on Monday had been beaten a
head in lmin. 13sec. over six fur-
longs, with 6st. 111 b. aboard, car-
ried 9st. 61b. over the same jour-
ney a neck behind Beauford, who
registered lmin. 12sec. A simi-
lar feature was noticed in con-
nection with Poppyland, who was
beaten fully eight lengths into
fourth place on the Monday over
five furlongs, run in lmin. lfsec.;
but with the southerly behind him
he ran it in lmin. Ofsec. Nearly
all the records at Randwick have
been registered when the wind
came from the. south. A few
year's back, when Lisnarte broke
lmin. 13sec. for six furlongs—a
record which had stood for years
and was held by several horses —■
and started the ball rolling for
all the present-day records, a gale
was blowing from the south. The
second horse, Aragain, who was
also inside the previous record,
was a “mile and a quarter” per-
former, and was never considered
a sprinter. The best two horses
in Australasia, Gloaming and
Poitrel, have not one record, any
distance, opposite their names'.
So much for time as a guide to quality.
*■*■•*#
Governor-General Forster asked a number
of cricketing ex-champions to Sydney Government House
last week. Tom Garrett and Alec Bannerman turned
up. They were in the first XI (D. W. Gregory’s)
which toured England 42 years ago. So did Syd Gregory,
who figured in eight Xl’s (he was captain of the
last in 1912) ; Charlie Turner, who was in three; M.
A. Noble (captain in 1909), and wicket-keeper J. J.
Kelly, who were each in four. Prank Iredale, another
visitor, had two trips, and Harry Donnan (1896) and
P. C. Charlton (1890) one each. Accompanying
the veterans were H. L. Collins (A.I.F. captain) and
Syd Smith (Board of Control secretary and man-
ager of next year’s team for England).
* * * *
The opening of Adelaide cricket saw a
new batsman and the reappearance of two old
wicket-keepers. Alan Hill, son of Peter and nephew
of Clem, is the first to appear of the third genera-
tion of Hills. He has done well at Prince Alfred
College and in B-grade games, and on his first
appearance in premiership matches he made top
score for his side, Glenelg. Whittv, who plays for
this district, too, is getting his aldermanic weight
down in view of bigger events. The only centurv-
maker of the day was Roy Middleton, of the premier
team, East Torrens. He was stumped by Elliot
Monfries, a wicket-keeper of long ago, now back
from Vic. and in the field with West Torrens. Also
Leigh Winser (A.D.C. to the State Governor) is in
the field again with his wicket-keeping (learned in
England). He both batted and “kept” really well,
and looks likely for the Vic. and England matches,
which are due almost at once.
* * * *
N. S. Wales Lawn Tennis Association
paid £13,603 for the old White City grounds at
Rushcutter’s Bay last week. Improvements will run
to another £12,000. The grounds at Double Bay are
too small and too far from the suburbs which provide
most of the players.
At the Strathfield (N.S.W.) lawn-tennis
championships on Saturday Eric Pockley and Mrs.
Ford defeated O’Ryan and Mrs. Wilkins in the semi-
final of the mixed doubles (4 —6, 6—4, 6—4) ano
N. Peach and Miss St. George in the final (6 —2,
6—4). In the all-comers’ doubles Pockley and Neil beat
N. Gregg and Henderson(l2 —10, 10—8)after a gruel-
ling battle. Horace Kice beat Bob Neil by 6 —4, 6- —4.
The first set lasted half an hour; but in the second
Neil’s double-faulting ruined his chances. There
was a lot of long volleying, and Neil’s beautiful
length was only counteracted by the cleverness of
the old-timer.
* * * *
Featherweight champion Jack Green met
Joe Symonds again at Sydney Stadium on Saturday
night. Joseph was slower than of yore, and Green’s
snappy left was rarely out of his right eye, as a
result of which the optic swelled and swelled, defeat-
ing all the efforts of the owner’s corner to get it
back to normal. During most of the remaining
moments which were available for the purposes of
assault, Green’s left played about the Britisher’s
chin and jaw. Nor was Symonds idle. He crowded
into his wasp-like adversary with the utmost gal-
lantry, and let fly blows that would have extermi-
nated Green had they landed properly. But they
never did, though once or twice, and notably in the
18th, the Australian was shaky. At the end of 20
strenuous rounds Joe Wallis .declared for Green. It
was a close thing, the deciding factor, no doubt,
being the younger lad’s superior evasiveness. He
couldn’t have stopped or even seriously damaged
Symonds if they had fought on for weeks.
* * * #
Georges Carpentier had so little trouble
with Battling Levinsky last week (he outed him
at New Jersey in four rounds) that the critics
damned the affair as a fake. Their language may
be imagined if the Frenchman ever meets and beats
Dempsey, who dfopped Levinsky in 1918 inside
three rounds, and who is regarded by Yankee sports-
men as the greatest heavyweight that ever drew on
a glove. Levinsky is more or less of a dugout. He
is Sheriff of Bridgeport, and has done little ring-
work since he took on that gldermanfie job over two
years ago. He began fighting (as Barney Williams) ,
in 1910, and since then has met —mostly in “no-
decision” bouts —such well-known performers locally
as Dave Smith, Colin Bell, Porky Flynn (six times)
and Eddie McGoorty (three times).
The Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron opened
the sailing season with a handicap event which
was annexed by W. D. M. Taylor in Triton from
the mark of honor, with Mischief (Stan Spain)
6min., second, and Waitangi (11. L. Carter), 3min.,
third. Triton finished with only 24sec. to spare
from Mischief, who lost oyer 40sees. at the start
and crossed the line 3f min. ahead of Waitangi. The
skiff race attracted 28, the winner turning up in
Nesowa (N. Moore), 9min. Moore has so far this
season scored more wins than any other skipper.
His record stands: 4 starts. 3 wins in succession and
a capsize. Ena (B. Shipway) was second with
lOmin.
Sydney Flying Squadron decided an 18-footers
handicap over the No. 2 course. After Commodore
Firth had been disqualified for starting before time, the
rest laid a course for the mark off Shark Beach. Sail-
ing free Drysdale was round first, with Tait’s crea-
tion, Rocket, 33sec. later. The wind by this time had
so much east in it tiiat the Rose Bay mark was fetched
in two legs, there being not nearly enough punch to
allow the backmarkers to get up. At the flag in
the bay Rocket displaced Advance for second place.
The run home was a magnificent sight, and at Point
Piper the fleet was bunched, Arline, with ringtail,
spinnaker from the topsail-head, and topsail,
setting most canvas. It was anybody’s' race with
half a mile to go. Then Harry Thompson in Advance
took the blow and crossed the line 17secs. ahead of
Pastime. Arlir.e and Movana put up a stirring go
for third- place, the first-named snatching the honor
in the last yard.
The meeting of Collingwood (Vic.) and
North Adelaide had not quite the interest of some
former tests to settle the club premiership of Aus-
tralian football. The winter game was over in
Adelaide, which is hard at work at- cricket, to meet
first Victoria and then England at the end of the
month. Thus North Adelaide were hardly in train-
ing ; and, anyhow. Collingwood had not won the
Victorian premiership. Till half-time it was a
great fight, but after that the superior training of
the visitors told. Final scores: Collingwood. 15
goals 17 behinds ; North Adelaide, 9 goals 11 behinds.
* * » *
In the Manly (Sydney) Golf Champion-
ship last week Eric Apperly caught the first cold
blast of the season, W. C. Sturrock beating him by
three up and two to play. It was a great game, and
when Apperly rose to fine things Sturrock rose to
finer. The morning round was Apperly’s with one
up; but in the second round Sturrock played all
over his opponent and won brilliantly. Apperly,
however, had revenge on E. J. Pope in the Australian
Championship, and won with the substantial margin
of 10 up and nine to play: he went “out” in 38 and
“in” in 36, doing the seventh hole in the remark-
able one stroke, and the eleventh hole in two.
* * * *
Miss N. E. Wright (Timaru) has again
won the M.L. ladies’ golf championship. She beat
Mrs. Guy Williams, who recently won the Australian
championship at Sydney, by two up and one.
Matte, of Victoria, was the only inter-
state visitor in the Burra-to-Adelaide cycle race, 100
miles and a fraction, and he had to give 10 minutes
to the nearest man, 55min. to the furthest. He
might have done it, too, but for tyre troubles. The
limit men held their own to Gawler, after which
the field began to close up. The race finished at
Prospect, just outside the city. H. G. Read (26min.
start) got there first (shr. 26min.). Best time (shr.
16min. 45sec.) was made by T. J. Robinson. Dun-
lops organised the race.
* * * *
“Form at a Glance” is the latest guide to
the intricacies of racing. It is issued by the Metro-
politan Publishing Co. (Sydney), and covers the
whole of the racing in the Sydney, Newcastle and
provincial areas from May to September last.
•*•***
Lieut. A. Iv. Roberts (3rd Skinner’s Horse)
has done well -in the saddle since he returned to
Ipdia the other day. In 10 starts he has ridden
five winners, two seconds and a third, and his mount
is already favorite for the Indian Grand Military
Steeplechase in December. Young Roberts was in
the C.E.G.S. XI, and saw service in France.
DEVIL-DODGING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At the Town Hall Mr. Herbert Booth touched on
the demons of spiritualism.’ ‘I could lie down on
the table,’ he said, ‘and ask the sister to play
certain pieces of music, and in four hours the demons
would have hold of me —but 1 would not be so
foolish as to do it.’ ” —Sydney Telegraph.
The table stood temptingly under the lamp—
A summons to gentle repose.
“Lie down,” it suggested; “it’s time for a camp.”
The Saint to the side of his nose
Placed a finger expressive of holy disdain;
And the Devil took cover, done brown yet again.
The sister was playing her repertoire o’er:
The instrument snorted and wheezed
With passionate fervor, when in at the door
•Burst Herbert like lightning fresh-greased.
“Change the hymn!” he directed. “They’re after
my soul”—
And Beelzebub’s minions slid back to their hole.
At every kind of terrestrial sport
The rank outside shot has a show.
The smartest of bookies take knocks, of a sort,
And champion pugilists know
That close handy to victory, sudden and sweet,
Comes Mischance and its bitter relation Defeat.
But who ever heard, in the fight which is waged
’Gainst those whom the good would o’erthrow,
Of anyone losing to demons enraged,
And being dragged yelling below?
It is always a million to one on the Saints,
And no error their run of success ever taints.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


BUILD UP YOUR STRENGTH AND
*
IMPROVE YOUR HEALTH.
It is natural for you to be healthy—but you cannot retain your
natural, healthy state unless you aid Nature by keeping your
system thoroughly toned up.
In your daily habits there are certain groups of internal muscles
which you scarcely ever use. Nature intended you to use them, or
they would not be there.
Unless you DO use them they’ll wither and become useless.
Then they cannot perform their natural functions —you will
then have a chronic feeling of weariness and lack of energy
and ambition.
Imagine how much better for you it is to have your weak
spots strengthened; especially when you can so easily and
pleasantly do it by means of my HEALTH EXERCISES,
which I TEACH BY POST.
My Method of Instruction by Post
will strongly appeal to you on account of its simplicity
and the rapid results it secures. It aims at building up the
muscles —both internal and outward —in a thorough and
systematic manner. No one part is built up at the expense
of the other, but your WEAK SPOTS will have attention.
Write for a copy of my illustrated booklet, “Health and
Strength from Self-culture.” Send three stamps to cover
postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
Australia’s Leading Physical Culture Expert,
354 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Over the Wor 1 d'
Shave in Comfort.
©_©
e©
©c.
If you could shave your-
self in three minutes as
well as the Barber does,
wouldn’t you rather
always do so than waste
•valuable time at a bar-
ber’s shop?
Then try a PERFORATED HONE.
It puts Easy Shaving within
reach of every man. Requires no
skill or experience to use. Give
six strokes or a hundred —you
can’t hurt your razor, for the
perforations PREVENT WIRE-
EDGE and automatically produce
a perfect, keen shaving edge.
TRY ONE. If it doesn’t make your
razor shave to your satisfaction return
it to us within 30 days and get your
money back.
Sold by all leading HARDWARE
MERCHANTS at 5/-, or POST
FREE 5/6 PROM
The Perforated Hone Co.,
Dept. 11 123 Sussex Street, Sydney.
[5
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOB
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY, THE GINERAL MANAGER, THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 U.P.0.,
MELBOURNP.
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
Box 220 Q.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
f f f * * * •'
. i 94 •.#;♦•*? vj*a>
i# *»»*» ’••• 1 *
V % V v v. .. 'V, v, x, K.
%% «**s»«>•;. *
* mnt v
'« mu
* >%%M «
**#♦#><
o
"
mm
mmm
Screens and Perforated Plates
For Stone-Crushing Plants, Coal Mines, etc.
Any size hole up
to in
f6in. plate.
Stone Breakers, Crushing Rolls,
Portable Road Plants, Elevators.
«
Manufactured
ny—
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVES
New South Wales: A. Leplastrier & Co., Sydney: Queensland: Australian Machinery
Co., Ltd., Brisbane; South Australia: Geo. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide; West Australia: W. G. Manners & Co., Kalgoorhe; New Zealand :
Blair, Reed & Co., Wellington; Malay States: Dunn & George, Ltd., Singapore.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE No. 20.
Kruses
1 Fluid
Magnesia
for Indigestion.
RYNOCH
All-British CARTRIDGES
TRADE
MARK.
The Brand that Stood for Quality
at the Front.
Stands for Quality in Australia.
The Sporting Cartridges of Pre-War Standard.
u*.t
MltamSnML
THE LIMIT OF VALUE IN “REAL" PANAMAS.
Considering that it is absolutely a GENUINE PANAMA, smartly
fashioned and well made, there is no gainsaying the exceptional
value represented in our “L.S.” topecial at 217-
Light, cool and comfortable and distinctly sty); the “L.S.
Special will completely meet your present needs. -
We have other “Real” Panamas at prices up to 45/- We’re
sure to have YOUR size, with the width of brim and the height
of crown you require.
CALL OR WRITE —WE PAY FREIGHT.
Lincoln, Stuart 8 Co. Pty. Ltd.
“Specialists in Quality Wear for Men.”
244-54 Flinders Street Melbourne.


«.>
Ready-to-wear Suits
at **
“ The Store for Men. ’'*
pARMER’S specialize in Ready-to-wear clothing..
Scientific study of. measurements has evolved
standards assuring all the essential characteristics of
made-to-order apparel.
PBl —Young Men’s Ready-to-wear Suits, two-button style;
rounded lapels, usual pockets, seam at back, no vent.
Coat medium length; vest five buttons. Trousers side and
hip pockets, cuff bottoms. Light and dark grey striped
Australian All-wool Tweed. Price.. 90/-
Plain stripe or small check designs in dark brown, light,
medium and dark greys. Prices .. 95/-, 105/-, 115/-
Light Weight English Worsteds and Tweeds, including
greys, browns, and fawns. 126/-, 135/-, 147/-, 168/-
FARMER’S :: SYDNEY
Box 497, G.P.Q. We Pay Carriage.
An Easier Shave
A Smoother SKin
when Wawn’s Wonder-Balm is rubbed in.
If used before lathering it will make the shave a pleasure, and if used
afterwards it leaves the skin smooth and firm.
Wawn’s Wonder Balm
is useful for all skin troubles. It quickly allays the irritation caused by
sunburn, and is most effective for itchy scalps, tender skins, piles and
catarrh.
Keep a tube handy and use it for all skin troubles. 2/- a tube. *
Used by Mick Simmons and all leading barbers.
Your Chemist, Hairdresser or Storekeeper stocks Wawn’s Wonder-Balm, or
post free from
V. A. WAWN,
44 Elizabeth Street, RED FERN, SYDNEY.
Melbourne
Chatter
DISPLAYBLOCK
Whence comes
all that is
exlusive
Although the new G.-G. appears to be
genuinely anxious to make himself popular,
he is proving a trial to some of those who
come in contact with him. The trouble
appears to be that he has not yet mastered
the distinctioh between the “vice” and the
“regal.” The first Executive Council meet-
ing was a disastrous business. “Billy” was
in a bad mood, Joseph didn’t dare to be
festive for fear that the dictator would step
upon him, and when the formal business was
over Ministers trooped out, Ryrie nodding
sadly at the unopened decanter. When the
Military Board called there was not even an
unopened bottle. With memories of a
happy morning with Ferguson lingering in
their minds, they rolled up in all their glory.
His Ex. greeted them with perfect politeness
but from a great distance, and after the
formal greetings were exchanged there
seemed to be nothing to do but right-wheel.
And the brass-hats right-wheeled accord-
ingly.
The only thrill provided by the first levde
of the new G.-G. was the late arrival of
W. M. Hughes. The Prime Minister bustled
in at the last moment, and, skipping through
a bunch of subalterns and such small fry,
made a hurried bow. One business man
who had dallied overlong in the city made
a late run up the ballroom, but missed a
handshake by a short half-head. Odds of 2
to 1 against him were laid when it was seen
that a sentry had hindered him in an effort
to get through on the rails.
Now that we have been told “officially”
we ought not to make any mistake in future
as to the exact relationship between the new
G.-G. and Adam Lindsay Gordon. Baron
Forster’s aunt married Colonel Hamilton
Gordon, a cousin of the poet. It is as thrill-
ing as the news that, as the aeroplane flies,
it is five miles from Federal Government
House to the Brighton cemetery.
•A-.-D.-G. Wheatley and his wife, who lately
unpacked In the Government House bunga-
low, are hurriedly repacking to make way
for an overflow of the Forster household,
probably the Pitt-Rivers. General and
Mrs. Wheatley may shelter with the latter’s
invalid father at South Yarra.
So the new vice-regals have decided to
go on with the curtsey, for the introduc-
tion of which absurdity into Australia the
Northcotes were to blame. “As the King’s
representative!” say they. Well, what
about the late Linlithgow, who was a pat-
tern Governor? He knew more about both
Court etiquette and democracy than
G.-G.’s in general; yet he did not call for
curtseys when he wore the cocked hat.
Edward P.’s simplicity of etiquette may
have been out of order; but at least it was
reasonable. And the men who were behind
him knew what they were about.
There were broad smiles on Saturday
morning when the list of British Empire
Order honors was read, and more sighs of
relief at the escapes than of joy at the cap-
tures. It recalled the time, a few years
ago, when the 1.5.0. was conferred on
Guinness, then Yic. Crown Solicitor. He
simply told the officer who brought it to
take it away, and it is still locked up
somewhere among the State curiosities.
There was not much space for dress-dis-
play in the pack which witnessed Eur-yth-
mic’s win on Saturday. The frocking was,
in any case, more for comfort than decora-
tion and had been there before, much of it.
Their Exes., though they dashed into their
pen direct from the Sydney train, neverthe-
less looked well-groomed and sleek. The
helps, all in black top-hats, were dwarfed by
his Ex., who has the knack of wearing his
polished pipe to great advantage. The air
with which he helped his tall spouse into
her sfeat was a lesson to students of deport-
ment. Lady Forster was in a champagne
cloth costume with a broad brown marabout
cape. Her pearl necklet and navy tulle-, hat
lent becoming aid. Their daughter, ‘Mrs.
Pitt Rivers, who looks like father, struck
a saxe-blue note, wearing the latest coat-
cape drape in silk taffetas. Lady Digby looked
girlish in nigger-brown cut very low in the
neck ; her scant skirts revealed smartly-shod
feet. Genera] Wheatley attended in a
monocle, with his wife in black and much
fur.
The Grice dame, in mastic, wandered
round with Mrs. William Leonard. Mrs.
Fred Payne cqme in severely-smart tailored
black with white stripe, which continued to
*
her stockings; and Mrs. Harry Payne wore
a wide pink- and blue-rosed hat with navy
suit. Mrs. George Blackwood took her
pleasure in a powder-blue rig. Mrs. Vanda
Clarke Hodges got a Bacchante effect out of
a tulle and grape-bunch headpiece. Sister
Nesta sported stripy tweeds. Mrs. Corn-
mans came in ebony chiffon taffetas and
finest footwear. Mrs. Murray Morton’s navy
georgette over satin was in keeping with the
Hewlett lady’s rust-colored spot foulard.
One of the really smart was Mrs. Willie
Nunn, in broad-lined black and white and
the same toned toque. Mrs. Arthur Robin-
son’s strawberry accordeon-pleated tricolette
looked like a visit to Bond-street. One bold
black-and-yellow striped shantung resembled
a tiger, and several human chessboards col-
lected their winnings. Young Mrs. Fred
Grimwade drew attention in flaring jade
upholstery. Her sister wore graceful grey.
Good-looking Jean Hamilton towered in
cream tailor-built, with black picture hat.
Mrs. Allan Currie backed a winner in putty
cloth, with a piebald hat. Heather Keep,
in cerise, had some handsome Harris tweeds
in support ngost of the time. The Harold
Grimwades came in the very newest 12-
cylinder car.
A lot of Anglo-Australians are hurrying
back—they find the dear Old Country much
too dear just now. Amongst the latest re-
turns are Captain Fitzpatrick, a one-time
State vice-regal genthelp, with his auburn-
haired wife and sister-in-law Leila Armytage.
The trio will find the old Toorak homestead
a very. changed place. The former park
lands are now covered with villas, and the
ballroom is as desolate as Tennyson’s Moated
Grange. The Armytages were the local
pioneers of Sunday-afternoon frivols. Their
famous Derby Sunday At Homes started
as friendly and exclusive little affairs known
as “cherry-picking parties,” and ended up
as huge crushes.
Tire odd thing is that some of the much-
too-rich should be bothered to slip trifling
charitable bequests into their wills when
they are intent on leaving practically every-
thing to the Family. Thus the late Robert
Hunter Landale, grazier, of Deniliquin, left
£235,000 to his widow and children, sub-
ject to payment of £5O legacies to the Denili-
quin Hospital and Presbyterian Church. It
shrieks like the shilling that the stage cur-
mudgeon leaves the bad girl of the stage
family.
The late Charles Alexander, M.A., was
quartered at the Grand Hotel while he was
evangelising with Dr. Wilbur Chapman;
and his death at 53 suggests that he didn’t
lead the simple life. With a rich wife to
keep the “mission” going, Mr. Alexander
could afford to be just a little bit luxurious,
and he was. But the Miss Cocoa Cadbury
whom the enterprising Yank had married—
everybody believed in her. When news of
her husband’s death arrived from England
the universal comment was “Poor Mrs.
Alexander!”
Back in a South Yarra flat, the Rupert
Atkinson pair quietly thank Heaven that
their year in the Fog is ended. Living at
Claridge’s hostel cost them £lOO a week,
including hot baths. Thought of . swell
restaurants in London gives these wealthy
wanderers a pang. Wing of a chicken was
only 2s. 6d., but three extra potato-chips cost
4d., which is lOd. a chip, and so on.
And the monotony of the fare!
A parade of canoes will be a Henley
feature this year, but seemingly it will come
to pass too early in the day for after-
lunch visitors to see it. The canoes will
parade for prizes. Now, a picturesque girl
or two in an artistically decorated canoe can
have a very gladdening effect, and even a
sentimental bank-clerk will admit that he
prefers it to a procession of beribboned cart-
horses at an agricultural show. Houseboats
will not be so numerous as in the .years
before the war, but the prizes for rowing-
boats, decorated and illuminated (for night
wear) ought to shake things up on the
brown and flowing Yarra. No great promise of
fireworks is held out. On the other hand a new
sporting importance will be attached to the
races (which strollers in the reserve mostly
can’t see) by the erection of five wireless
stations along the course. Henley-on-the-
Yarra is really a regatta, it appears, as
well as an annual gathering of frocks, mil-
linery and leg-fittings.
When Premier Lawson was motoring from
Eastville to Maldon, trying to make a few
of the weaker Nationalist candidates believe
they had a chance, his motor-car hit a snake.
Lawson jumped out and finished his venomous
opponent with a stick. But he can’t deal
with his press critics in that fashion.
The Ernest Keeps gave a pre-Cup junket
at Witchwood, a colorful humpy filled with
china, prints and pictures. Mrs. Ernest
sported gold brocade, whilst daughter Heather
sub-hostessed in a tapestry red-and-gold
frock. Judge Williams and spouse, Com-
mander Pidgeon and French Consul Turck
and his wife lent weight to the show. Mrs.
Norman Hodges got an honorable mention
for black georgette touched with paddy-
green and roped fore and aft with strands
of tiny seed pearls. Mardi, Mrs. Geoff
Syme’s dainty girl, was amongst the jazzers.
Mrs. Alfie Bright, just back from London,
was with an English sister, Miss Scott, Who
has come to look over Australia, Captain
Syd Dalrymple and the if, G. Casev boVs
jazzed hard in the green ballroom lit up
with many bouquets Of crimson rhododen-
drons. Jean Fairbairn and Bobby Lhndale
looked in late.
Presumably the Henley management will
capture the new G.-G. pair for at least a
brief visit to a houseboat. Thus far the
idea of a vice-regal lawn reserve, oh the
Yarra Bank, has not Occurred to the Henley
powers-that-be. But. it Will surely come—
a reserve for the Exclusive* with ss. tickets
entitling the eager throng to hang Over the
railings and gape at the. exclUSiveers.
Paul Bibron’s juveniles are to enjoy their
annual kick-up to-morrow (FridayJ night,
and a week later the enthusiastic dancing-
master closes the season with a “Grand Bal
Cabaret.’* Then Paul will leave for a trip
to the Continong (where all that is lovely
in his art comes from) and America,
where the jazz-tree and the wild rag-thyme
grow.
Mrs. Charles Mills and datighter-in-iaW
Mrs. Ainslie Mills hostessed a mammoth
afternoon house-warming at the former ma-
tron’s new Toorak bungalow; It was a petti-
eoated gathering save for the butler and
the geutlemnil in the Orchestra On the
verandah. The company enthused as one
woman over the masses of expensive blos-
soms glowing in huge bowls in every rdoM;
The part of the circular hgil OUtside the for-
tune-teller's deb hummed , like a beehiVO;
(The fii'st hostess who can import a Papuan
Sorceter will be famous for ever.) Both
hostesses were chiffoned in black. The elder
Ainslie-Mills girl fluttered picturesquely in
fluted champagne draperies, with a Vi.Vifl
green hat, her two schoolgirl Sistefs wearing
more simple array; Miss Mills rbshmbleu a
wood nymph in ail-browfl.
From the woman point of view there is
nothing so interesting in Conan Doyle’s
spiritualistic crusade
as the presence of
Lady Doyle on his
platform. She is his
staunch supporter,
always seated on his
right, offering dumb
testimony to the
truth or his state-
ments concerning her,
and revealing in her
eyes vivid recollec-
tions of the inci-
dents he speaks of.
Nobody in the audi-
ence takes Cohan
1) oy 1 e’s discourses
more seriously than
the iady who (as
this Stirling Studio
photo shows) is not
less attractive ill her material manifestation
than in her spiritual characteristics.
The Alfred Hospital wants to raise
£51,000 for remodelling and general exten-
sion. For some time past it has turned
would-be patients away for lack of accom-
modation. The working staff .suffers the
discomfort of overcrowding, and the build-
ing itself begins to feel not as young as it
used to be. As a matter of fact, it has
been a boon and a blessing to Melbourne
for 50 years, so it is time the 14 acres of
grounds contained more bricks and mortar,
the need for a large extension having been
foreseen when the site was first granted.
The Mayoress is arranging a Juvenile Ball,
plain and fancy, for November 13, in aid
of the jubilee appeal—a floral ball, with a
Flower Queen elected on the premises, and
a floral battle, and prizes for the best cos-
tumes.
An essay competition managed by the Aus-
tralian Industries Protection League pro-
duced some remarkable efforts. Subject, “The
Security of the Nation.” One writer sug-
gested laying in big stocks of guns and
ammunition from abroad, so as to be ready
for the next Day. To people the North
another genius had the brilliant idea of
drawing a line across the continent,, and
allowing the multi-colored races to come and
live north of it. He did not say what was
to be done with those who walked over the
line. The names of prize-winners are to be
published in The Bulletin.
Caricaturist Annie Hope Campbell’s sud-
den death last week caused general regret,
for the quiet little woman was much esteemed.
Under the name of “Boz” she had a number
of sketches published in The Bulletin—in-
cluding the best drawing yet made of Nor-
man Lindsay—and her poster, “Gome, lads,
give us a spell,” won the Commonwealth’s
prize for a recruiting appeal. She was a
member of the Lyceum Club, and her sister
married squatter Roland Graham. Her
father was Hope Campbell, of Inverary,
Malvern.
The picture ghow-ers iu Melbourne this
week are Edward Officer and May Vale.
The lady has the run of the Athenaeum Gal-
lery from the 20th to the 30th, and Mr.
Officer has the F,A.S.’s galleries in Exhibi-
tion-strfcet,
The Bertie Austins’ elder daughter Catil
was in flowing draperies of ivory lace and
gold embroideries, with the Usual White net
veil and orange blossoms, When she was mar-
ried to William Bowie at the Toorak kirk,
The . bride’s small sister Hope being dis-
abled by a fevefish cold, cousin Alison Austin
played a ldne hand aS bridesmaid in pale yeh
low from hat to shoe-tips.
Fellow-passengers of the Forsters were
Sergeant Dudley Tregent, a blind returning
soldier, and his fair yOung bride. Before
leaving for the war Dudley was a clerk in
the Vic. Lands Department. Up till four
hours before the Armistice he led a charmed
life, and then a stray bullet from a machine-
gun deprived him of the sight of both eyes.
He intends to continue at Melbourne Uni-
versity the law studies he began at St.
Dunstan’s in England.
Gertrude Johnson, back in Melbourne from
Maoriland, where she found concert-four*
ing a matter of hard business competition
With pictUre-showS, is to have a compli-
mentary concert during the race season.
This sweet young songstress will never be
allowed to drop into the background for want
of friendly encouragement, (me of her
amateur publicity agents is Mrs. Ted Dyson,
who hostessed a little party of JbhnsoniteS at
the Wattle Tea Rooms to welcome Gertrude
on her return,
Irma Cardn will be Seeing more Of the
world before She removes her clever little
self to London. Her, entertainment was get-
ting so much encouragement in Maoriland
that she cabled to Robert Cohrtneidge about
the comic opera (either “The Arcadians" or
a hCw wbrk) ih which she is to get her
shoW as prima donna. Dii his replying that
the production was delayed for some mdnths,
which meant that she would be provided
with a temporary engagement if she went
away at once, Irma and her husband (M. P.
Adams) decided that she should continue
her work on the M.L.* circuit till the end of
the year, and then do Fiji. Samoa, etc., with
her sing-song. Flattering notices of the
versatile little lady speak of her violin-play-
ing as being something more than a trifling
incident between her songs in costume. The
instrument she uses is the one with which
her dad introduced himself to Australia as
a virtuoso iohg ago.
After seven years on the business side of
Freddy Shipman’s Concert and film ventures,
Mary MacfarlaUe has taken oti the business
management of Philip Waring’s New
Dramatic Co. in Calcutta. The “Far East”
Will be included OU tour. “Mary Mac” has
had a moving career* especially in pictures.
In Maoriland alone she Went to 200 towns
with “Neptune’s Daughter," $
Last week’s Chatter spoke Of a Friday ted
at Menkies’ to welcome Vera Pearce and Iff
Shilling back. The festive gathering is to
COme to-morrow.
The plucky Mermaid Play Society has not
yet lost all hope. It is to produce Synge’s
“Riders to the Sea” find Arnold Bennett’s
“The Title,” at Melba Hall, oil the 29th,
The Princess’s Theatre showed a lot of
empty seats on Saturday night for Allan
Wilkie’s “Comedy of Errors.” But the
“House Full” sign is likely to be hung out
when theatregoers find that the play is a
ripple of laughter. The action taking place in
the one day gives Arthur Goodsall’s dress-
designing genius little chance of expression.
Allan Wilkie and Guy Hastings strut in
knee-length Grecian draperies, with light
stockings which make both sets of legs look
like pale, smoked sausages. Silver trim-
mings relieve the simplicity of the Hunter-
Watts misty-grey draperies, Lorna Forbes
wears what looks like a white nighty
modestly half-hidden by a scarlet robe. In
the potion scenes—played as a curtain-
raiser—Miss Watts trails a white bedroom
gown, afterwards concealed underneath a
gorgeous martial cloak of flowered satin.
Lorna Reid’s popularity was made mani-
fest at the Playhouse on Thursday night.
The ardent war-worker (she still does her
weekly day at the hospitals) reaped her
reward at a complimentary concert arranged
by Mrs. Stein. When Lorna entered in
primrose charmeuse there was a crash of ap-
plause which sounded like a drayload of
crockery smashing. Finally the committee
passed her a diamond brooch of remembrance.
The senior Staughton lady sat with Mrs.
Webster. Colonel Tivey brought an attrac-
tive daughter. Mrs. W. M. Robins, in
black, came with Mrs. Alec Boyd, in furs.
Justice Cussen listened, and so did Pro-
fessor Woodruff, and Col. and Mrs. Robert-
son. and the George Lemon dame in magpie-'
outfit. There was a proud glint in -the
eyes of Lorna’s little mother—a notable
black-corded silken figure. Afterwards Mrs.
►Stein refreshed the leading lady and assist-
ing artists at the Town Hall.


■ a
* :
vaf
.
ft
ft
1
1
.ft-
»aw
iPiRM
Sill
KM
•ft, ■:•
m
ISi B
#
it
k, -
«K K
MH
Tm g
-i-i
PHi
■ ‘' >&*?#&**
m
■"■■••• ' '
■ <
m
- - V* • ft . *
ft.
_.... ..... -. • f N v
■■v1 1 ■ 1 r.i! ■ 1 ■ in- ;n v-f! 1 1 11 1:. • 1 1!; n I itti i; i : UT., 1 r i'-I!;: 1 !i •■ '•■ 11 ! l '," !'. |i § «»!& 5 %
!SS
irnTT
i f Mimiininmm .i.uT^m
ITT I! VI (1 11 1! M 1! 1 11 \! 11 '' i •'' ‘ i ■ i: i! ;;; H J i! • " ': 11.!. • < j -,
■Qg
ft. ft
.
I
;';|ftift!ft
m
mm
;
: ...
■
::ft:, •:
jjaHagllMl
. .. .. mitm
‘ V ' '
pM—
HI
wiiiii
iiiiiiaiiiiiißiiiiip
*
'il
Hill
■
wmmm p sp j " ; ..
illliiilliliiillillll
.... . . ... :;. :,;
ft ft
ißßi';.: I'.;-:::;-;
B
iii
.
■:•'.-.:-
l«Milillplilpillpl
lis
mm
m
ft. ; -
*
HU
' I
■■ ft
lg&&
:
■
fti i
;• :
fjg| g£ •» J
ws
SSESSSS
jj_j 11 m i n 11 1
, :•: ft-
pkimk
IBhhß
,ii
H
■... ft:
1. .
ft.' 'ft
: -ft*'lii
' ft ft-; ft.
II -I-lift
11
Wm
wB
'f:
I
m
:-,-.-ft
■ft j
PI
.
5 •
|;l.
i : ift
■
■■■ i'-i'
'5 ft •
"mi
■•■ - • •;•- <.
| H
.
' .; : ' '
: ; ' -ft.- '•■'-'• ' ' ft ‘ :
.;...- -..-. f- ■.
m 1 **- Wm f
-••'••• •••'••""
?*»*
m n
w
■ :
■ftv
ftft-v -ft:;
>ft' :; : ; -ft :.■■'.
i;;
' . jr-iR-:■■■;•■■< ’
m
■:■ ■'
-
.|»ii ■/ >/ * !
KL. - .-j
* .w, » -Vi
sgd
SMusic and Imagination
Phillips Brooks —that man of keen perceptions
—once said: "A school song in the heart of a
child will do as much for his character as a fact
in his memory or a principle in his intellect. In
other words, music as a means of culture, is a
potent factor in human civilisation. This being
true, how essential it becomes that the young
mind should drink in nothing but the best! Let
him practise, certainly, but not rely on his own
puny efforts as a stimulus to imagination.
The Beale Player-Piano combines in one instrument the best
means of attaining ideal results. The finest compositions in
the musical world can be played with the roll and used to im-
press on the child’s mind the full beauty of correct rythm
and tone colour. Aside from the enjoyment you will person-
ally derive from the instrument, this educational value is a
highly important feature of the Beale Player-Piano. And at
all times it is available for hand-playing. The Beale Patent
Tuning System ensures an instrument always in tune, and
this, despite the great amount of use a Player always gets.
The better musician you are the more you 'will appreciate the c ßeale
BEALE
LTD
COMPANY
AND
Showrooms:
333 George Street, Sydney.
Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar St., Annandale.
BRANCHES
N. S.W. : Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga.
Victoria : Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania : Williams Bros.,
Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia: John Evans Ltd., Adelaide.
West Australia: J. A. Thomson Co. Ltd., Perth.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED
90-92 Queen St., Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.


Under
Royal
Warrant
sg
To H.M
George V
champagne
CHAMPAGNE
Q^rlesHeidsicdc
Reims
■
™"—- ■*' l ”
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
'OB9
Oriental
Hotel
is accepted as Vic-
toria’s greatest
achievement in fashion-
able hotel service. It
is distinguished by its
sumptuous appoint-
ments, service and
environment; and
offers the tourist alto-
gether delightful ac-
commodation.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club.)
sdg
THE HENLY GIRL
may still her idle fears. She may have, been
a trifle laggard in her preparation, neverthe-
less the festive day has not left her behind.
Our master tailors ivill fashion her pretty
Henly frock without the waste of time of
fittings-—and this so charmingly.
SHAVE
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Centreway
Melbourne
'tyfc
a/u
air
renowned for their proven
merit and correctness of
style. Qosting no more than
other makes—they carry a
guarantee of replacement
free, if finger tips wear
through before gloves are
washed or have given rea-
sonable wear.
Your draper
should have
Vanity Fair
Silk Gloves.
SA
mm,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
David
JOnes
Catalogue
Australia’s new G.-G.’s descended on Syd-
ney all of a sudden last week, and on Wed-
nesday morning the official bunting had a
great airing between the Railway Station and
Government House. Even the cocked hat
absurdity could not wipe all the intelligence
out of the lean face of the new Excellency,
and his tall slight figure would be an easy
first in a gold-braid-and-epaulette manne-
quin parade. The Digby lordling and son-in-
law Pitt Rivers are equally fortunate in
figure accommodation for official accessories:
but new aide Norman’s stockier stature is
over-weighted by the gold trimmings. Lady
Forster is slim, with a sensitive face and a
wistful look in her eyes, as though her
thoughts are still with the two soffs who laid
down their lives in France.
The civic reception took up what was left
of the morning between the arrival of the
train and lunch-time, and in the evening
Labor politics and its missus were led out
to pasturage at Government House. At 9
o’clock Sydney’s 200 were summoned to bob
before their Exes ; and the chandeliers in the
ballroom twinkled upon the same motley
dressing that a Government House official
reception always brings out —from Mrs. Tony
Hordern, in Greek classic drapings mixed up
with angel sleeves, a band like a Roman
matron’s across her hair, to the little official
woman whose unpowdered neck blushed from
the most modest of V’s. Lady Forster re-
ceived the token of allegiance in softest black
satin and georgette and a glitter of diamonds.
The Davidson lady was impressive in pearl
brocade and beautiful lace, though the Fuller
dame in white Duchesse satin overtopped her
by a head. Mrs. Holman suggested Caesar
and the Forum, and her husband’s periods
were more rounded and leisurely than of old.
Giant among Labor leaders Jimmy McGowen
held his head high and feared no man, and
red-coated General Finn played a lone hand,
wife and daughter being absent in Europe.
The new aides got their first lesson in who’s
who in secret masonry from the gentle Lamb ;
and Sir Geoffrey Feilding moved in dignity
as befits one of the Old Contemptibles.
Mrs, Mutch fluffed beside her husband ; Mrs.
Storey wore black jet embroideries and gold.
The American Consul and his dark-haired
wife kept the Belgian Segaerts company, and*
Mrs. Verbrugghen found much to say to the
French consular Campanas.; Japan came to
the party in dull English evening clothes; toe
only ' splash of color among the men was
made by Papal Delegate Cattaneo. Mrs.
Rich, Mrs. Rolin and Mrs. Rabett came on
from the Sydney Hospital Auxiliary jazz
competition. Pretty Mrs. Miller* and her
mother, Mrs. Le Roy Duck, under Mrs.
Toohey’s wing, carried Canadian complexions
and prettily shaped heads. Philip Morton
brought his wife, who looked like a Lorelei
in sea green. Surgeon Maitland brought his
lady in a pretty powder blue outfit. Ethel
Turner Curlewis seemed the one concession
made to mere writing people, and Art in
Australia was represented by Longstaff. The
University Davids and Barffs were there;
Mrs. Spencer Brunton effulgent from a cas-
cade of black jet; the W. J. Millners; Mrs.
Brownlow with her best cameo; and Mr. and
Mrs. Swinson. A Marks lady was sleekly
beautiful in palest pink charmeuse, and
enclosed her dark hair with a gold bind-
ing that suggested the roaring ’fifties. Long
plumey fans of the type used by Cleopatra’s
handmaids to swat the Gyppo fly were in the
hands of all women, every second man had
a decoration, and Mrs. Willie Collins, in
shell pink and lace, chaperoned Ross Smith.
While Lord Loughborough is fluttering
around Mesopotamia, and his lawyers are
answering charges with regard to a cheque
which hadn’t been met, and pleading the
benefit of the Gaming Act, Lady Lough-
borough and her two children are en route
to Sydney by the Malwa. Grandmamma
Chisholm has rented the W. T. Macpher-
sons’ home for them- —Duntruin, at Darling
Point —for the six months the Macphersons
intend spending in London. Another rela-
tive who is preparing for Paris is Mrs. Syd-
ney Clarence; her flapper must have several
years of schooling before auntie Sheila will
present her to Royalty in London.
Lord Loughborough’s income is derived
from the Vyner estate (his mother was a
Vyner), and one of the conditions of the
Trust is that the beneficiary shall not bet.
This wise provision was made owing to the
notorious fact that every- member of the St.
Clair-Erskine family bets unless forcibly pre-
vented. The “Duchess of Sutherland” who
was reported by cable to be selling her house-
hold effects —because “everyone is broke
nowadays”—was probably not the Duchess
(who is staid as well as wealthy), but Lord
Loughborough’s aunt, the Dowager. She
married General Percy Fitzgerald, a brother
of Ted and Nick Fitzgerald, of Melbourne,
in 1914, but they were presently divorced.
She lives near the Loughboroughs, not far
from Putney, where the boat-races occur.
Miss Henderson, sister of the. one-time
Commodore of the Sydney Naval Station,
and Lady Davidson’s close friend, leaves for
her home in the north of England next
month by the Osterley. Miss Macarthur
Onslow goes by the same ship.
Government House visitors last week
asked about a distinguished-looking woman
in black with a wealth of just-greying hair. It
was Mrs. Nottidge Moseley, a cousin of the
new G.-G. With her was a young daughter,
who wears her large marble-like forehead
bare, with advantage to her good looks. Mrs.
Moseley was born at Albury, but has lived
abroad for some years. She’s a sister of
solicitor Norman Lockhart, and is on a long-
ish visit to Sydney.
To Philip Newbury’s farewell concert at
the Town Hall Sydney’s middle-age brought
its flapper daughter to hear Philip sing, as
nobody else to its mind has ever sqng, the
love themes of other days. But Philip, to
everybody’s .surprise, introduced two new
works to the first half of the programme—
“Jean Morison,” by old friend Joe Bradley,
and “Memories,” by clever Esther Kahn.
Of course, Blumenthal’s sugar-sweet “Mes-
sage” and the aria from “Martha” were
among the first offerings; but later in the
evening, when Philip adjured his Maud jto
come into the garden, middle-age rose at
him, waved its programme, and assured
the flapper daughter that the voice was as
fresh as it was 20 years ago. Then as
encore came the dashing “Take a Pair of
Sparkling Eyes,” and last of all, by request,
“Then- You’ll Remember Me!” “And we
shall!” a little grey man said with emphasis
as he nursed a small son who had fallen
asleep. After Philip and Madame Spada
had trilled their old “Home to Our Moun-
tains !” there were cheers and still more
cheers.
Agnes Brewster, science mistress of the
Girls’ High and first woman-councillor of
the Field Naturalists’ Club, smiles as gently
at you here as she does over the beetles and
birds and tiny creep-
ing things whose
study is her life-
work. There is not
much about the tree
and flower and sand-
hill-life of N. S.
Wales that the rosy-
cheeked young
woman can’t tell
you—and for proof
of it see “Botany
for Australian Stu-
dents,’’ which she
wrote in conjunc-
ti o n with Miss
Leplastrier. T h e
Field Naturalists
are a gentle, friendly
body who take long
rambles o n Satur-
days—the sort of walk you took when you
were a small child, when stones and flowers
and flashing wings were of the greatest
importance. Perhaps butterfly-man Water-
house, or entomologist Froggatt, or sand-
dune-expert Hamilton may be the leader of
the expedition, and then it will turn out a
wonderful adventure; and always there is
billy tea. May Moore knows all about it,
and she took the picture.
Under a petal canopy danced Youth and
almost-Youth, which by strange irony had
foregathered at the Paddington Town Hall
to make easy the way of the dying by means
of the most jocund expression of the quick—
the jazz. The staircase leading to the ball-
room had grown into a Way of Palms that
seemed longing for the cool freshness of their
Centennial Park home. It was a great
night for the young. To begin with, there were
more men than girls. Dame Margaret,
mostly a bed of roses and pearl passemen-
terie, smiled upon the four little white-clad
debs., and tiny Mayoress Fitzgerald clutched
a bouquet of pink carnations of as great
dimensions as her own black-and-gold frock-
ing. Owen Cox, who will have his little
joke, asked everybody wearing a committee
badge if she was an inmate. And every-
body laughed because, literally, the new
G.B.E. had paid the piper, as well as the
rent of the hall. Miss Henderson and Mrs.
D’Apiee, who supported Dame Margaret,
harmonised in blue and pink; and indefati-
gable Mrs. Trefle shooed the little plump
partridges of debs, into line to curtsey to
her Ex. It was a warm night, and dozens
of young things found the outlook over the
roofs of Paddington from the balcony. a
never-ending source of interest.
The jazz competition and dinner-dance at
the Wentworth the other night proved that
the Sydney Hospital Auxiliary is a very
live thing indeed. Nearly 200 dance ex-
perts turned up, and sec. Mrs. Watson Hold-
ship was a proud woman. Mrs. Rich and
Mrs. Rolin and Mrs. Rabett brought their
young teams, and only tore themselves away
from the white-and-gold room to dash up to
pay their respects to the new Federal Excel-
lencies. Mrs. Sep Levy, like the little
Quaker girl, has let a tuck out of her skirt,
so that her blue-and-silver smartness was
almost ankle length; Dr. Stewart McKay,
the Ernest Watts, the Moreau girls and
Mrs. Herbert Marks were others to clap
the free-wheel movements of Pat Levy and
the Westmacott miss, who carried off the
prize, a green jazz fan.
The Auxiliary has found a good friend
in Mr. Bosch, of Bosch, Barthel and Co. He
is building the tea-room that is soon to be
opened in the hospital grounds. Now it only
needs a good friend to deliver the china and
another the silver, and there you are! One
firm is supplying 250 pairs of pyjamas, and
another sufficient calico to cut into 21,000
yards of bandages.
May Summerbelle’s “Playgoers” got under
way at the Repertory on Saturday night,
and the landing outside the tiny theatre’s
door was a bower. Never in Sydney has any
company received such heaped-up and brim-
ming-over sweetness. Dashing Marie Segur
and Kitty Barlow won the hearts of all the
boys, Rita Kirkpatrick and Mrs. Eustace
Ilolroyde lifted up fine voices, and Gwen
Coombe swung a graceful leg over her walk-
ing cane. Bouquets and monster chocolate-
boxes were the harvest of every girl.
The North Shore Grammar matrons
hostessed a very jolly party at the Town Hall
on Friday night. In the good, old-fashioned
way, the young things were introduced to
each other until every programme was filled.
Mrs. Esplin, in blue and black draperies, and
Miss Davey. in yellow and silver, had an eye
to everything and everyone. Flags and the
school banners decorated the hall, and the
stage was a bank of arum-lilies. Gate money
goes to the school’s Memorial Cricket
Ground and the Erie Sinclair Memorial Boat-
shed.
Strella Wilson slipped quietly around to
Scots’ Church in Melbourne the other day
between rehearsals of Gilbert and Sullivan
and became Mrs. Ralph Errol. Strella’s
people belong to the solidly comfortable of
Melbourne; but even if they cut their prized
prodigy girl off with a shilling, ; she still
would have a tenor to keep the wolf from
the door. Ralph, by the way, is to sing the
“Faust” music at the Sydney Choral’s next
outburst on Saturday, Browning Mummery
being unable to clean up another singing job
in time to appear.
Racing-man Greenwood, spite of Dew-
drop’s politeness in refusing to push in ahead
of the other nags, saved enough from the
A.J.C. meeting to pay his padre cousin the
usual fee for linking him up with Mrs.
Helene Cross, of Christchurch (M.L.). The
bride is French and a godchild of the
Empress Eugenie. The Australia spread
the wedding dinner, and the table was gay
with red and yellow, the Greenwood racing
colors. The wedding party included the
Finlays (M.L.) and the Harold Green-
woods, from Saxbv Downs (Q.).
Margaret Mercelle Jarvis made the young-
est bride of the week when she married
Lieut. Herbert Wood Mannering, of the
(late) 168th Regiment in Uncle Sam's
Army. Margaret Mercelle dressed 18 sum-
mers for the nuptials in soft white satin
corded at ankles, neck and elbows, and wore
her tulle veil cap fashion. Cousin Jean Her-
ring was bridesmaid, in primrose taffeta and
nattier embroidery. Padre Clivg Clark
performed the knot-tying at the Greenwich
home of bride’s father and mother. Dad,
who represents American steel, was a great
worker in the early days of the French’s
Forest soldiers’ settlement, and built the
first cottage in that land of promise. Buckets
of champagne and sentiment accompanied
the pretty rural knot-tying.
Miss Skinner, of the Australian Board of
Missions, died suddenly at St. Bernard’s,
Darlinghurst, last week. The tiny, white-
haired slip of energy could not learn to go
slow, in spite of the doctor’s warning of a
weak heart. For the last few weeks she
had been speaking most longingly of the
return of her beloved niece, Mrs. Antill-
Sargood, and looking ahead eagerly to the
Christmas Day reunion at Tudor. Deep
sympathy goes out to the sister connected
with the C. of E. Girls’ Grammar, who was
the little lady’s close companion.
Mrs. Hughie Broadwood died suddenly in
St. Vincent’s Hospital on Sunday. She was
Genevieve Fattorini, the younger daughter of
the Sydney doctor of a generation back, and
had only recently arrived in Australia from
British Columbia, where her husband has a
ranch. He is a member of the big piano
firm. The three little girls were at school
at Springwood when the end came.
A memory of the Victorian Period:—
Frank Mitchell, who died suddenly at Sutton
Forest last week, was related to a number of Sydney
families who were a good deal more important
socially and financially 30 years ago than they are
to-day. His mother was a Laidley, a sister of the
cheery old millionaire (in coal chiefly) who built
Hillside, on the Edgecfiff-road. (After a brief career
as a boarding-house Hillside passed into the posses-
sion of the Levy family.) Frank Mitchell's eldest
brother, Willie, was, with his handsome wife, a lead-
ing figure of Sydney in the ’nineties. He was a
sportsman; she knew how to dress and entertain,
and no Government House party was complete
without them. He is long since dead and she is
married to a soldier in ’ India. When the Willie
Mitchells lived at their Darling Point water-
frontage mansion one Commander Graham Bower,
R.N., was private secretary to Sir Hercules Robin-
son. He married the affluent Maude Mitchell, sister
of Willie, and eventually got a K.C.M.G. They
live in England, near Portsmouth. Another sister
wedded Governor Rawson’s son, and they also abide
in England, not far from the Bowers. Frank
Mitchell, like the rest of the family, got his money
from Tooth’s brewery. He had been living in
England for years, and was here on a brief visit
when the end came.
This is how May Moore’s camera sees
Reginald Gooud, conductor (for love) of the
Sydney Choral Society. Three nights every
week all the year found the enthusiast
devotes to his choristers, the bassos being if
anything the chief’s
pets, as before he
grew a baton Mr.
Gooud was one of the
finest oratorio bassos
Sydney has heard.
Every* night of this
week has gone to
make the Society’s
production of
“Faust” on Saturday
night the ideal per-
formance of Mr.
Gooud’s dreams.
When not cultivating
voiees he is teaching
roses how to grow,
and his garden at
Lindfield is one of
the show-places on
the North Shore line.
11 is wife was a daughter of Surgeon Wilford.
The Choral Society is offering a prize of
200 guineas for a choral work suitable
for a large choral body, with solo work
for soprano, contralto, tenor and baritone or
bass, and full orchestral accompaniment.
The libretto and the music must be done
by Australian-born citizens, be of Australian
character, and have real Aussie atmosphere.
When he beat “Sandy” Jaques in 1913
for an Assembly seat, James Fingleton was
a healthy man with every apparent expecta-
tion of a long life. A little short of two
years ago he had ’flu, and about the same
time he put up at his house a brother, since
dead, who was far gone with consumption.
He got the disease and had known himself
to be doomed for some time past. He leaves
a wife and six small children.
From the Brisbane look-out: —
Mrs. Roy Purves and her sister, Miss Paterson, left
for Sydney after a round of farewell teas and
jazzes. Roy Purves left a few days previously, after
receiving a farewell address from the citizens.
Flora Sandes looked in between the North Coast
tour and her Beaudesert and Toowoomba visits. She
is appealing earnestly for cash for her Serbians, and
has collected a decent amount.
The British riflemen were welcomed by the State
Commandant. Lieut.-Colonel Richardson, who is
chaperoning them, is a Rugby-Cambridge product,
and since 1901 has shot with British teams all over
the world. The Hun was'his target from 1915 on.
Lily Butler, who established the first home in
Paris for British soldiers, is here, and intends going
as far north as Cairns.
Hilda Davenport, a handsome ex-Bananalander
whose soprano had received the approval of European
critics, is to marry one R. B. Johnson, of Hampstead,
London. Mrs. Davenport lives at Double Bay.
Mrs. H. J. Diddams, once Mayoress of Brisbane, a
devoted worker for the welfare of children, died last
week after a long illness. She was one of the most
warm-hearted of women, a loVer of outdoor sports,
and a true Australian.
Lena Hammond was the success of Elgar’s “Dream
of Gefcpntius,” which the Brisbane Musical Union
gave last week. The songstress triumphed in Rose
du Barri peau de soie, embroidered in crystal and
black beads.
Miss Grey, the S. Aus. artist, has brought brush
and palette here, and is opening an art school.
Biddy Brockway, Dr. Brockway’s graceful and
athletic daughter, will be Mrs. Presby Hill before
this is tuppenny-stamped.
Ryder Swinson (Beatrice Griffiths’s small
son) is going to be King of the Rosebuds
all right at the Balloon Ball; he's to be
the Gardener of the Flower Set, in which
16 little girls, including Daphne and Diana,
are to be the blossoms. Ryder is going to
swank ahead of his train in tall doeskin
leggings and old-fashioned smock. Balloons
and large prize crackers are to be the main
features of the decorations, which are in
Mrs. Victor White’s hands. Alice in
Wonderland and her friends the March hare
and the hatter have been asked to the party
by Mrs. Albert Littlejohn and Mrs. Howard
Giblin.


OOIX
2?
L
SBBS*.
iiiiili'lil
lllllltlllllllllllM
nftv
i
liiiiiliiiiiniinniTi
w
r?i
US
XJJ
i_ai£;
ft
yj
iiliiiiiiiiiiiiimiimmiiiimiiiioimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiimiiliiiiiiiiiii
XIIS
Xli6
ha
120
Xll9
MU
XlO2
XlO3
XlO4
J 32,
XlO5
z? -zrtrir&TrTrTT-er&^r-ereTTzr.
m
m
Mw
mi
i
(illl
Kft
n/7i
m
nu^n
VS
%
Xll2
"Hu
Xll4
Xll3
m
m
nlllll
rS,
2.
THE AMERICAN
BAG STORES L™
x 100. Suede Bag, assorted colors, fitted purse, trimmed suede flower. Price 15/-
X 101. Suede Bag. fitted purse, laced silk braid. Assorted colors. Price 14/6
x 102. Suede Calf Sunshine Bag, three compartments, fitted purse. Price 37/6
x 103, Suede Calf Sunshine Purse, strap handle on the back, ticket pocket, purse
and inside pocket, tan or grey. Price 21/-
XlO4. Real Morocco Motor Bag, poplin lined, fitted purse. Price 21/*
x 10b. Art Leather Bag, leather lined, slit pocket inside. Price 10/6
X 106. Suede Bag, pocket inside and out. Assorted colors Price 15/6
x 107. Suede Calf Bag, three inside compartments, lined silk poplin purse
and mirror, tan or grey Price 42/-
X 108. Real Morocco Sunshine Purse, two inside compartments. Price 18/8
x 109. Real Morocco Envelope Bag, two inside compartments, purse and mirror
pocket on back, lined strong poplin Price 30/-
x 110. Leather Art Bag, leather lined, purse and mirror. Price 25/-
x 111. Suede Bag, with flap-over, laced silk braid, various colors. Price 12/6
x 112. Leather Art Bag, leather lined, fitted nickel-framed purse. Price 21/-
x 113. Black or Navy Taffeta Silk Bag, white shell mount. Price 42/-
x 114. Black Corded Silk Bag, trimmed brocade, white shell mount. Price 32/6
x IJS. Leather Blouse Case on steel frame, moire lined. Size 20in., price
82/6; size 22in., price 90/-; size 24in., price £5
X 116. Leather Suit Case, lined drill. Size 22in., price £5 ;• size 24:n., price
£5 10/-; size 26in., price £6; size 28in., price £6 10/-
X 117. Leather Collar Box. Size 7in., price 13/6 ; size Bin., price 14/6
X 118. Compressed Cane Cabin Trunk, wooden bands, brass caps, inside tray
holland lined, two brass locks and clip. Size 36in., price £9 9/-
x 119 Suede Cushion, pokered designs Price 32/6; hand-painted, price 35/-
x 120. Leather Kit Bag,leather lined. Size 14in„ price 80/-; size I6in.. price 90/-;
size 18in., price £5 5/-; size 20in price £5 12/6
AH bags (except travelling goods) post free. Send for our Catalogue.
CORNER KING & PITTSTS.STRAND CORNER
PITT ST. SYDNEY ARCADE GEORGE ST.
117 LIVERPOOL ST.SYDNEY.29I KING ST.NEWTOWN.
ZOIX
X108
XlO9
AtVm
«-*>
m
°oogOl
a
onx


dsg
he larqest selling
quality pencil in
ihewovld
VENUS
V PENCILS
sd
BEST FOB
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
aivd How to Feed
Mailed Free to
An y Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to: CASA TORRE, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, S. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
MIA:
*SAVE
TIME
AND
nmoney
B
Snid % > wwn
Style
No.6
An Essential Need
To Mark All Linen
For the Housewife. Traveller or School
Children —To individualise any Article
or Garment —Supersedes Marking Ink
for Utility. Any name woven into a fine
Cambric Tape in Fast Color. Be Sure
and Ask For Cash’s Names—the Best.
Prices :—l2doz. 4/6,
6doz. 3/3, 3doz. 2/3
*— Sold by All Best Drapers
Made in Australia by
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Vic.
Write for Style Book
sis
Ross Rifles
in Canada.
We have been authorised by the
I-tosis Co.’s agents to sell a shipment
of 50 of their celebrated .303 Military
Match Rifles. These rifles differ from
any; other: they have a straight pull
bolt action. It locks like a big 15in.
gun. The barrels are built better than
you know. This rifle is ideal for any
game shooting, firing the ordinary .303
bullet. Weight, 81b.: length of barrel,
30 inches; adjustable rear and front
sights.,
Price, £6/10/-
ORDER EARLY —THEY WILL
NOT BE WITH US LONG.
Oh* „
Cunsmiths and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
IVIELBOURNE.
■
It any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, tv ho will quote you price for it.
/
jffiss*'
1
m
ou
R TEXAS
SADDLE
IS NOW FIRMLY ESTABLISHED
IN FAVOR. AND IS BEING
SENT OUT IN RAPIDLY-
INCREASING NUMBERS.
The tree in this saddle is made
with steel horn, and is exception-
ally strong, to stand the rough
usage these saddles get. It is fitted
with two cord girths or cinches,
and wooden stirrups.
TEXAS
Freight Paid for
Cash with Order
to any Port or
Railway Station in N.S. Wales.
Write for Price in the other States
£ll/2/6
KOO-KOO-KOO-KOO
K'BURRa WHIRS
V: v ''***±j&
K’BURRA STOCKWHIPS.
PLAITED BELLY, KANGAROO FILLING
NO SHEEPSKIN USED.
Thongs: 6ft. 7ft. «ft. oft.
12-plait.. 17/- 19/6 22/6 24/0
16-plait.. 19/- 22/- 25/- 28'-
Handles: 16-plait, 16/6; 34-plait, 18/6.
Handles for 9ft. Thongs, 18/- and 20/-
Whips Post Free for Cash with Order
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.
&93 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR OUR * u\E
SADDLERY CATALOGUE.
70 SADDLES TO
CHOOSE FROM.
SPARKLETS
are back, a^ain!
Refreshing, sparkling sock drinks at a
moments call when you have a Sparklet
Syphon. If your old Syphon is out of
order through being stored away for so long,
we will put it right, Free of Charge. Simply ml
in the Coupon shown below, and we will do the
rest AT ONCE. All Chemists and Stores sell
Sparklet Syphons. Why not have one ?
FREE COUPON
To SPARKLETS LTD!, 42 Pitt St., Sydney,
‘Please send me Free of Charge new Rubber IVushers
and Pin for Sparklet Spyhon bought about 19
Name
oAddress
S.B. 21/XO/-2Q.
7)
BOSTOCK’S BLACK LIQUID
THE SION OF
PERFECTION
SUEDE DRESSING
keeps shoeware soft, does not lay down the nap
and maintains their original perfect black.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney.
GALVANIZED SHEETS
Corrugated and Plain.
phoenix
brand
Baldwin's Phoenix Crown
Entirely British Manufacture and Specially
Made for Australian Requirements.
STANDARD BRITISH CORRUGATIONS.
ASK YOUR SUPPLIER for this make. Their superior working
qualities are widely known. They are the best-for ROOFING,
for TANK and jCISTERN-MAKING and for ALL GALVANIZED-
IRON WORK of every description, possessing as they do
A Uniform Heavy Coating of Pure Spelter,
which ensures long life under all climatic conditions.
Baldwin’s Best Soft Steel Black Sheets
Specially adaptable for MOTOR-BODY BUILDING and for ALL
CLASSES OF WORK where a FLAT ROLLED SHEET of the
best working qualities is desired.
We now hold large stocks of all sizes in Australia and New Zealand.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
R. JOHNSON, CLAPHAM § MORRIS LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WELLINGTON, Nl.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A T o notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submittedj and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Good A.: What a careless reader you are !
The huh' went to some trouble to say that in general
knowledge the American would be “badly beaten” by
the Australian.... Curtis A.: Doesn’t seem to affect
the real contention, that women, the wives of
unionists, ought to have a say in ‘union affairs. As
for the worker’s right to a share in the control of
industry, he lias it already. And one of .the best
ways to secure industrial peace is to get him to
realise how much he has —through Parliament, wages
boards, factory inspectors, boards of trade, etc
Land’s End: Your Pegasus is a camel; and not a
riding camel, either Mool Boel: Please send name
and address. There’s some filthy money here for
you. .. . J.L.L.: Please don’t send stamps with fiars.
Such MS. can’t be returned.... S.J.S. (Longreach) :
Get Something to write about and put all the skill
you own into it. .~R.C.J.: Yes, it’s “spoilt paper”:—
but not so badly spoilt. .. .D.L.S.: Nothing in it. .. .
A.D.L.W.: Condemned... .A.T.A.: “Secret Love”
misses... .0.W.H.: No use... .Kuaka : “Road Song”
doesn’t get on far. Give- it another quiet evening
or two. .. .Battler: If it is fact it niight make one
good paragraph.... Frances B.: “Waiting” is very
poor verse R.A. (Redfern) : The “Burglar” was
disappointing; the thrill isn’t there Ellen W.:
The only interesting point about “Wattle” is the
remarkable information that England is 3000 miles
from Australia. .. .H.L.T. : “Shrew” .doesn’t work
any better Vera H.: No use The Armored
Taxi-Driver: No mirth in it H.G.F.: “Awaken-
ing” flops here and there. Anyhow, that sort of
thing doesn’t yell for print Gagi: They don’t
strike U&....C.5. (Mosman) ; Not done well enough.
... .8.M.N.Z.: Worth a short par. Will you write
it ?. . . .R.A.S.: Not .. .Amos M. : Subject all
right; handling all wrong. .. .E.W.S.: You'll have
to write better than that J.A.W.: “The Butcher”
is full of pathos:—
.. . .Coralie S.: There is distinct promise there....
Plodder: No, it’s got to have a lot more in it than
that.... Ivismet: They are all thin and common-
place S. Comus; “The Dream” doesn’t gladden
us. . . .Crispian: You don’t say anything about La
Perouse except that it is there and you won’t forget
it.... Alexa 0.: Says nothing new or forceful on the
subject. .. .F.R.R..: Can’t accommodate the trunk
ghost. He wouldn’t be comfortable in these pages,
anyhow. .. . W.E.8.: “Business Sense” doesn't make
the occurrence sufficiently clear Jack-a-Clubs:
Not enough in it.... 6793: Nice verse, but doesn’t
say or suggest enough. . . .Ken P.: No use. . . .Jimmy
S. : “Pilgrims of the Night” can’t pull up here....
Rasmus: Don’t care for “Jilted”.... Beatrice M.:
“Spring and Memories” repeats all that has been
said oftenest on the subject, with only a wriggly jolt
here and there to give it novelty.... Tommy: Too
crude... .A.W.H.: Impossible yarn. ~ .0.H.G.: Tails
off to the feeblest ending T.A.E.: The verses are
pretty enough, but none of them have any punch.
J.II. (Brighton Beach): There are plenty of
papers for boys. Yarn wouldn’t do even if we had
such a page R.S.M.: “Bible Club” is a good
idea. See if you can’t make it more convincing....
Lofty: Shockingly written, and all that material lias
been worked to death.... L.Iv.G.: Well enough told,
but not the goods for this market J.G. (Wallan) :
A yarn like that wants color and life to give it
probability C.H.W.: “Elixir” won’t do Mil-
dura: Write something you really know and feel,
ahd make every line of it honest Chick S.: The
verfee of “Memories” falls down heavily on the
second and fourth lines of the stanzas J.F.D.: Not
enough in the “Regius Professor” to make a yarn.
Lots of professors are human... .T.M.S.H.: You got
a feeling of horror into it, but something more is
wanted Mollie B.: ‘(Flapper” should sell some-
where else.. . .N.F.S.: Pure melodrama of the obvious
sort. . . .L.C.R.: “Night’s Passing” nearly, but not
quite... .J.B. (Brighton): “Ode to a Ring” is bad
verse. . . .G.L.S. (Hobart) : “The House Divided” is
very poor verse ambling around a weary old idea...
Little: That’s better.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.M.W.: But didn’t Low do something just like
that?... .G.H.A.: Two people and a cow in a fog.
Others sad and wiry May 0.: Not a bad start.
But remember that you have a long way to go yet.
. ...0.M.: The constant demand for artistic pro-
phecies enables us to understand why the turf
tipster flourishes. We foretell a lot of work ahead
for you if you are determined, and a lot of shirk
if you are n0t.... M.M.R.: Rather strained humor,
and there is no gaiety in the drawing. .. .M.G.S. :
Thanks, but we can’t use any of them . .M.C.F.:
Your Egyptian art has been entombed. .. .L.G.C. :
Daddy’s tailor seems to be a sort of Cubist in cloth.
A.E.J.: Is it a cartoon suggestion or a short story?
.. . . T.W.D.: Yes. there is hope for you if you study
hard enough and long enough. There is hope for
everyone, everywhere, at all times W.A.H.: De-
clined with respect. They haven’t quite enough
finish... .C.G.: Some humor there and good obser-
vation, but the drawing is too amateurish. Practise
and try again.
Peterborough (S.A.) has had an unusual
sight—sheep apparently on fire in the sale-
yard. About 300 were found to be smok-
ing, and the wool around the brand had to
be cut off. The explanation seems to be
that the paint they were branded with had
been kept in a phosphate tin.
: A Melbourne Pro., whose foggy
style of lecturing is as locally renowned as
his exceptional knowledge of his subject,
was once chided for the fogginess. He re-
torted that to be able to lecture in that
fashion was part of his qualifications for a
professorship. A prof., he explained, was
expected to know more about his subject
than anybody else, and the only sure way to
keep the bright young men in their places
was to be vaguely verbose in the Glad-
stonian manner. There were no more
questions.
A butcher who’d slain his wife
by a well-timed blow of his cleaver,
Cheerfully strode to a pub across the road.
And nonchalantly ordered “a sleever.”
in a clean suit of clothes and a false nose
(Purloined from a circus clown)
He next took train, this son of Cain,
Full of joy to a neighboring' town.
No phifntom disturbed his after years
Nor “rappings,” so mystic and queer;
But ’tis true he oft burst into copious tears,
At the loss of his business career.


Shipping-
ORIENT LINE.
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-ae-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads ana
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding _ sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
* ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
«‘J Sydney.
\
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, NOVEMBER 24,
VENTURA,
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking;, Public Companies, dec.
THE,
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEW,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. : Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G. ; lion. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager : J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Blanches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL DANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1803.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 192,1.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 796,655 10 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,609 4 5
All new business since 18*93 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Running, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G-. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manage*-— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. ..£1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. ... .. £200,000
Directors ; Herbert R. Lysagiit, Chairman ; George
J. Sly, LLD. ; Frank N. Yaliwood, F.C.P.A. ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jagq Smith, M.L.C. ;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (85 Rundle Street).
Manager : R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director : A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £629,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,496,666
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,646,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa. Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1365.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £625,000
Reserve Fund .. . . . . .. 600.000
, £1,225,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 625,000
£1.850,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 91 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADEXHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
. the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usyal banking business
+T*pnas>rt^.
Shipping, ete.
Canadian-Austrahsian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
♦ :
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (IM.Z*), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. TAHITI, November 11.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, December 9.
And every 28 days thereafter.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World —the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New Fork can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N l).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona. Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM WELLINGTON :
R.M.S. TOFUA, November 12.
R.M.S. MARAMA, December 2.
Connecting Steamers from Sydney, Nov. 4, Nov. 25.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP <sc CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
w
WALES
BANK OF
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability -
NEW SOUTH
Kstablished 1817.
Directors:
- £4,765,700
3,275,000
- 4,765,700
£12,806,400
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Bnckland. Esq.
Charles Birinie, Esq.
Kobert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: A. C. Milson, Esq; AV. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office —George Street. Sydney. London Office —‘29 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.
351 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Correspondents throughout - the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
■negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
B HEAT) OFFICE
gds
of
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2802 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3k% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
' Deputy Governor July Ist, 1520 Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
gds
V..-
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman. •
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W, Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Bane, E.C.
London Bankers— The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank. Limited.
and agents and correspondents throughout the world.
Shipping.
INTERSTATE STEAMSHIP SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE.
FOR BRISBANE,
PORT ALMA, MACKAY, BOWEN JETTY, TOWNS-
VILLE JETTY and CAIRNS (transhipping at
Brisbane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Glad-
stone, and at Townsville for outports).
* Tranships at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns,
tCarries Ist, 2nd and 3rd-class passengers.
ICarries Ist and 2nd-class passengers.
lst and 3rd-class passengers.
Huddart ParkerLb
Magnificent
ast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand pons
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED.
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
TliE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey' from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street.
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
“THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regularly to:
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, GOFF'S
HARBOR and IVOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Byron Bay and the beautiful Tweed River.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay', Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TOUR FARES.—Sydney-Brisbane, via
Byron Bay: Ist, £B/3/-; 2nd, £5/13/6. Sydney-
Brisbane, via Grafton: Ist, £B/3/-; 2nd, £5/10/-.
For particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY’.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA. •
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable AddrcM
‘'Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE. QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
Eitzroy" Estates Limited.
Blackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOB:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & 0. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries, Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping' Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cogktown.
Head Office: Mary SYsvct. Bvisbann.


li
‘"I///
;s V
OJ ( 0
BILLIARD &SNOOKE
\
ft
£
M
win
mm
WHIMIII
In play they are resilient —faultless in running— true to angle and of perfect balance.
Far and away superior to any other ball. Unaffected by climatic conditions.
BILLIARD BALLS
Sizes :
lfin.
17/3
If in.
21/-
2in.
25/-
2isin.
32/6 set
SNOOKER BALLS
Sizes: Ifin.
£6/61
1 sin.
£7/7/-
2in.
£B/81-
2iin.
£ll/11/- set
(Postage on One Set—N.B.W., 9d.; Other States, 1/2).
(We Pay Carriage on Snooker Balls).
•Sole Australasian Distributors:
'IC
Headquarters—Haymarket, Sydney.
New City Sports Depot: 99 King Street.
And at Newcastle and Brisbane.
We Desire
to Buy
g
PLATINUM, at £2O per ounce.
OLD GOLD and SILVER, for
Melting Purposes.
DIAMONDS, PEARLS and other
Fine Gems.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd., Sydney 8 . 1 ’
sdg
m
dsg
sd
THE. WORLD'S
BEST VALUE
1
if
s
V
r
= i~
O
Men of Travel
“ Our mess always carries a plentiful stock of
Chairman and Tournament Cigarettes ; at whatever
point of the Compass we happen to be they are the
links that. bind us with ‘Home' There’s a
delightful ‘ something' about them which satisfies."
tt'es ■
Renowned for their quality, purity and flavour. The CHAIRMAN
MEDIUM is a stronger Cigarette the " returned “ man’s favourite.
TOURNAMENT CIGARETTES
Every packet
of Chairman or
Chairman med-
ium contains 10
full weight
Cigarettes for
Bd. . . . . .
A 'de luxe ” edition from the Chairman
Factory. Made from the finest straight-
cut Virginia leaf, and the very best
Cigarette procurable. You can’t buy better.
Obtainable from all leading Tobacconists.
Tournament
Cigarettes are
sold at. ...
50 for 5/-
25 for 2/6
10 for 1/-
R. J. LEA LTD., Chairman Factory, Manchester, and 418 George St. SYDNEY
gds
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Hercules Oil Engines
This Engine is Built Throughout at
Our Own Works.
Best BRITISH MODEL (operating
entirely on Kerosene, no petrol even
for starting); starting effected by
Lamp, which is removed immediately
after.
NUMEROUS SATISFIED USERS.
MADE IN SIZES—3, 4,5, 6£ and 8 BRAKE-HORSEPOWER.
Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd.
MERCHANTS, ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS.
418-424 AND 450-460 ANN STREET. BRISBANE.
(Trams pass near by.) Works—Yeerongpilly. [2
Missing Friends.
T F WILLIAM HOWLETT (son of John and Mary
-*■ Ann Hovvlett), last heard of at Strachan, Mac-
quarie Harbor, Tasmania, will communicate with
the undersigned he will hear of something to his
advantage. PERPETUAL TRUSTEE CO.,
91 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Missing: Friends.
INFORMATION is sought as to the
whereabouts or date and place of death
(if deceased) of PATRICK DEARY. Com-
municate with DARVALL & HORSFALL,
243 Collins Street, Melbourne.
4 «tE ON ►
A Bar of Steel
can be analysed and reduced to a formula, but there are conditions and
elements that cannot. Our
Silver Steel
is of an extremely high standard, and is expressly suitable for Small Taps.
Reamers, Drills, Punches, Dental Tools, Clocks and Electrical Work.
Supplied in short-length rounds from l/64in., rising by 64ths to 31/64ths
for Drill Nos. 1 to 60, in 3ft. lengths.
For prompt attention, address inquiries to Desk “A.”
The Eagle Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
379-381 Kent Street, Sydney.
264 Batrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Charles Atkins & Co., Rtd., Adelaide.
Paul & Gray., Ltd., Newcastle.


FOLLOW A MASTER HAIRDRESSER’S
ADVICE. HE KNOWS WHAT'S GOOD.
You Try a Rexona Shave.
'
u
Messrs. BVIST (from a photo)
I have been a master
hairdresser in Sydney for
the past 35 years, and dur-
ing that time have tried
many shaving soaps, with
a view of discovering one
suitable for use in my
saloon, and after giving
your Rexona Triangular
Shaving Stick a trial, great
was my surprise to find I
had at last secured a suit-
able soap, one which has
given entire satisfaction.
It lathers excellently, and
softens the beard better
than other soaps I have
used, and at the same time
it leaves the face free from
all irritation.
I have always been a
great advocate for Rexona
Triangular Shaving Stick,
as I realise that it has no
other equal, both for pre-
serving the skin and its
economical value.
Your wonderful Shaving
Stick I will recommend to
my friends and customers,
well knowing that they will
be rewarded after a trial.
Yours truly,
(Sgd.) H. BCIST,
Culwalla Chambers,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Watch for the Triangular Stick.
Rexona Shaving Stick (Medicated) is Rexona Soap specially treated so as to
produce a thick, creamy lather, which will soften the beard and improve the skin at
the same time.
' Rexona Shaving: Soap contains the same soothing: and healing: powers which have
made Rexona the Rapid Healer famous throughout Australia. So, men, if you have a
tender skin, remember Rexona is specially prepared for your needs; it will soothe
your skin, and quickly heal any cut you may have the misfortune to get. Make your
next shave a “Rexona Shave”; you’ll enjoy it.
Rexona Shaving Soap is something entirely new in every respect. Watch for the
triangular enamelled box, for Rexona Shaving Stick is not
round, like the old-fashioned kinds, but triangular, and
packed in a triangular enamelled box, tasty and neat, easy
to hold, and dainty in every respect.
0
SHAVING STICK
rut PEJ*
rills lye!
Canno
Cleans 1
pLegula
British
a»k for ONOTO INK-
ajK.
If.
cure.
®oBt for all Pens
You’ll Still Smell the Dip
in the Wool!
Take any of those fleeces at Shearing Time, and if they’ve
been Dipped in “Vallo” you will actually smell the Dip
in the Wool. It will still be there—and with it that
lasting protection which ensures cleaner Fleeces, better
Sheep, bigger Clips. Dip Your Sheep in
Powder SHEEP DIP
and you solve your Dipping Problem for Twelve Months
hence. Your Sheep will be Vermin-free from that
moment onwards. They’ll be Vermin-proof, too, for
“Vallo” means Protection from Dipping to Dipping. Try
it. Its effectiveness will impress you.
All Stores— everywhere
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - BRISBANE
Khamsin.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
REELED through the hot, red sand the
camel~train:
Half-blinded beasts, with hideous
swaying heads.
Stumbled along the trail. ,And close against
Her swinging palankeen the lover prest.
A curtain might bejoosed, a tasselled coicl
Cut with a furtive knife, and in the. dark
Of those wild rainless plains she might slip
The great beast’s hairy sides and find his
arms, , ~
Predestined for her when the world was
young.
Foremost among the camels richly ’tired
Rode the stout Khalif, who had brought his
bride,
A slender quivering jewel of a girl,
From the white coast and turquoise of the sea
Inland, to where the khamsin rocks and
burns, .
And love is lit with sudden blazing fires
When brown eyes meet brown eyes above a
veil,
And the gold torch that Allah set for them
Signals, despite a haughty Ivhalif’s pearls.
Why, you might hang a woman from the brow
To the warm rosy half-moon of the heel
With all the gems the wealthiest Sultan
keeps. .
And wdnd her all about with skeins of gold,
And roll her, mummy-wise, in purple silks,
And place a djamond bigger than a rose
Across the velvets of her pouting lips,
Yet never bind her tiniest thought to yours
And never win from her one proffered kiss!
For love is free; though you may barter
slaves,
You cannot give away a single kiss,
You cannot buy with coin one real caress,
Or ever find Love’s altar in the mart!
’Tv/as death, she knew, ’twas sudden death
for him,
Did one brown camel-driver see him come
So close against the shambling creature’s
legs,
To touch a little hand that, like a flake
Of snow in summer, reached towards his
mouth
And felt the furious hunger of his lips
Go throbbing upwards to her pulsing breasts
That ached tumultuously to lie against
His swart young manhood. It was death,
she knew,
For her soft pampered body, braced to steel
Because of him. Now swirls the blinding
storm.
The camels squeal and snore, the voices of
The muffled drivers lost amid the storm.
A blacker cloud ! “My Zobeide, come forth !
Come from the haven of your palankeen,
Scented with citrus that long since had died
In that lush garden running to the sea.
My racing camel cowers behind the dune,
And he is white and tall, from Barbary,
And fleeter than the seaward-blowing wind.”
And even as his voice came through the
storm
(Against her hand she felt it more than
heard)
He wondered would that gentle, fragile thing
Dare the wild khamsin and the piling sands,
The bare sharp knives of watchers, and the
ire
Of that stout Khalif swaddled in brocade
And gloating on the sweetness of the bride
That should be his to-night. No unguents
spared
For her smooth pearl-like body! Surely he
Should find at last a woman for his queen
Who would not vex him with the common-
place.
Beyond the next oasis was a well,
A tomb with bubble dome, a grove of dates.
With the wide laughing stars for witnesses
Here they would bivouac and set the tents
Like silken mushrooms in the arid plain,
And he w T ould find his lost youth in that
hour—■
Dead roses come to life within her arms.
Meanwhile the blessed khamsin wrapped her
round
And hid her fairness in a plume of sand
And helped her deftly to a lover’s clasp.
The empty palankeen, swung overhead,
Seemed to be tenanted to those who watched.
“Art thou afraid?” said he; and she replied—
That slender, rose-leaf, satin-nurtured one:
“Afraid? Art thou not here ?” And her
small hand
Against his heart was warm and full of life.
And when he found her lips, those lips were
fire.
Such is the force of love, though death was
but
A yard away.
The groaning camel train
Passed on to the oasis, and above
Still swayed the soulless, empty palankeen.
And still the Khalif gloated on the night.
And far away the milk-white camel fled,
A splendid subtle beast from Barbary ;
And the swart lover sipped as bees, enjoy
The unguents that were for a Khalif’s bride —
Honey and almond on her little throat,
Honey and almond on her little breasts.
And always through the dying khamsin came
The call of tides and freshness of the sea.
* * * *
Where is the moral of this godless tale?
Primly you turn your heavy guarding ring,
And your magnolia face has never blush
Nor flickering eyelid. In your palankeen
Of silk Convention haughtily you ride
And do not know. Not yet, my Zobeide!
You travel though a desert all the while.
Deserts have khamsins ! When the columns
rise,
The dust concealing all the well-known trails
And driving those trade camels from the
track.
And lighting some red spark that makes men
mad,
Shall I be listening at your camel’s knees?
Shall I hold out my arms that you may slide,
Leaving an empty, swaying palankeen
Filled with old fragrance?
. When I see you rub
That white rose perfuipe in your little neck
I go remembering a night of stars,
A racing camel fleeing to the sea;
And on a woman’s throat my hot lips set,
Stealing the unguents of a Khalifa!
Timid, discreet and cold, untempted still!
If I should say. Oh woman unawake
“Art thou afraid to-night, my Zobeide.
What would you answer? Sheathed within
my arms, .
What would you answer? Fire signalling
fire,
Forgetting palankeen and Khalifa,
“Afraid? Art thou not here!”
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Mistress Pilkington.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN that exquisite ornament of
the civil service in New South
Wales, Mr. Arthur Moorefield
Pilkington, resigned his position as Acting-
Deputy-Assistant-Commissary-General, and
intimated his intention of returning to Eng-
land forthwith, there was a good deal of
regret expressed throughout the community.
The politely-worded request in the adver-
tisement columns of the Sydney Gazette
that all who had signified their faith in Mr. <
Pilkington’s probity and solvency might be
good enough to present their claims for
settlement, in view of his approaching de-
parture, was almost the equivalent of some
such announcement as that the population
of the Colony was about to be placed upon
half-rations, or deprived of something that
was almost necessary to comfortable exist-
ence.
It was a blow. The expectation of a state
of society ijbout to be deprived of the benefit
of contemplating one so elegant, such an
exponent of the grand manner, so courtly
and so refined, and so gently pleasing in a
time and place when and where roughness
and rudeness were the keynote of human
intercourse, induced a feeling of gloom
amongst the inhabitants of Sydney that was
not easily to be shaken off.
But Mr. Pilkington’s mind was made up.
He felt that it was not right that those
circles in London in which he had moved so
dazzlingly three years ago should be longer
deprived'of his stimulating presence. His
duty to King and country demanded that he
should return to the centre of the British
race, there to exert his influence upon a
civilisation that was better qualified to profit
by it than the little embryonic sort existing
at the Antipodes. He booked his passage in
the ship Seringapatam, and departed from
Sydney on a sunny morning at the end of
May, taking with him -the blessings, the re-
gards and the good wishes of all who had
come in contact with him between Port
Jackson, Bathurst Plains, the Coal River
and the extremities of Illawarra. When he
went away it was almost as if the sun had
set, with no intention of rising again.
It may be remembered that Mr. Alderman
Pilkington, Common Councillor of the City
of London, had decreed his son’s exile to
New South Wales for three years, as a
means of dissevering some connections the
latter had made in England. In so far as
this went, the plan was eminently successful.
When the exquisite Arthur returned to Lon-
don, it was to a gay society which knew not
Joseph. Nearly all the old-time sharers
in his fervid jovs had disappeared—thd duel-
ling-ground. the Fleet Prison, or penurious
exile in French and Belgian watering-places
were chiefly accountable for this lamentable
state of affairs. A new set of roystering
blades had to be cultivated, and their culti-
vation was not a very conspicuous success.
Nothing is so transitory as the glory of
dissipation, and young Mr. Pilkington found
that to begin all over again in the reconstruc-
tion of that peculiar society of which he had
formerly been the most shiping example was
a task whose irksomeness outweighed its in-
ducements. It was not long before he
decided to return to Sydney.
But Mr. Alderman Pilkington would not
entertain any such idea. Arthur might go
back to Botany Bay, if he so desired, but
he would not do it with any financial back-
ing from him. So it was not until the year
1829, at the age of 30 or thereabout, that
Mr. Arthur Moorefield Pilkington, as sole heir
to the substantial fortune of his recently-
deceased parent, beheld once again the blue
waters of Our Beautiful Harbor. When he
landed in Sydney Cove, it was with the in-
tention of founding a race of Pilkingtons on
this side of the world which would be an
everlasting credit to their progenitor. To
this end he had provided himself with a wife
who was almost more splendid and resplend-
ent than himself.
With £125,000 the pioneering path of Mr.
Pilkington was comparatively easy. He
bought the Bowling Alley station on the
Upper Hunter from Mr. Daniel Wishart, ex-
superintendent of convicts, who had taken up
the country, built a bark-roofed hut and a
stockyard not far from where the flourishing
town of Scone is situated to-day, and
stocked it with a few cattle to which he had
a legal i-ight and many to which he had no
right at all. With an army of convict ser-
vants to assist him. Mr. Pilkington erected
a magnificent mansion—it is now a dairy-
farm—laid out the grounds about it (they
are lucerne paddocks to-day), and christened
with much circumstance and festivity his
princely estate Moorefield Park, in honor of
his mother’s family name.
He founded everything magnificently and
in the true Pilkington manner that the reign
of Macquarie had known so well and appreci-
ated so vastly. The only thing lacking in
its almost feudal splendors was an heir. And
this truly regrettable shortcoming his elegant
and distinguished lady showed no disposi-
tion to make good.
**, * *
Farm-constable Llewellyn .Jenkyn stood
before Mr. Pilkington in the library at
Moorefield Park, nervously twisting his
cabbage-tree hat in his two hands, and fur-
tively glancing from time to time at the
languid lady who reclined upon a sofa at
the side of the room behind the lord of the
manor.
A very dainty lady she was, clad in white
muslin, bound with a wide sash of blue silk
that came close beneath her bosom, and with
a great pile of flaxen hair upon the shapely
head that earned her pretty face. ' Her
lips were red, and the slight droop at their
corners might have indicated something of
what is vaguely spoken of as “temper.” In
(Continued on next page.)


Vo
>2
aar
ft
-. ~-~7?
>3
«U
5. J
'V ?' 4
£W*£
Po>
f
m
‘Every Picture'
let is a Story"
YOUNG AND OLD ALIKE
N°! Age does not explain the kidney weakness,
backache, muscular stiffness, rheumatic pains and
urinary discomfort of elderly people; for whilst some
are young at eighty, others are old when only sixty.
But age does bring health-wisdom. Let the young folk
listen when old people say: Keep cheerful, but never
keep late hours. Avoid heavy meals. Shun all excesses.
Take exercise. Get sufficient sleep.’
Young and old alike will find Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills a ready help. This specially
strengthening kidney and bladder medicine does not disturb the stomach or bowels.
SYDNEY PEOPLE TELL OF THEIR CURES
BY DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
FROM ROZELLE.
Mr. M. Dowling, 25 Koseberry Street, Rozelle, Sydney, says: “For about
three years I suffered a good deal with my kidneys, and during that time was
treated by doctors and tried different remedies, fiut nothing did me any good. My
back used to ache fearfully, and it was as much as I could do to stand up straight
after bend ng over a little while. I had liniments rubbed in, but the relief was
only temporary, the pain being soon as bad as ever. The kidney secretions were
very much disordered, being highly colored and scanty. Mv general health was
far from good, and I often used to feel so ill I could hardly attend to my work.
One day I saw,an advertisement for Doan’s Backache Kidnev Pills and the thought
occurred to me to try this remedy I bought a bottle, and in a few days I began to
feel bettei. As 1 went on with the treatment the improvement was maintained,
and by the time I had used tour bottles I was cured, all signs ,of backache and
kidney trouble having entire y gone. I am in splendid health now, and have only
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills to thank for my recovery.”
FROM CAMPERDOWN.
Mrs. T. Smith, 25 Bridge Street, Camperdown, Sydney, says: "A member
of my family suffeied agony from rheumatic pains all over the body, and was
completely crippled with the ailment for months. The pains were particularly
severe across the small of the back, just over the kidneys. We had a doctor
treating the case for a good while, but his medicine did not do any good, and
at last he said he was afraid nothing more could be done. We then tried hosnital
treatment, but that also failed. It was right on top of this that we were advised
to use Doan s Backache Kidney Pills, and although we had verv little hope that
they would do any good, we got some to try them. After taking two or three
bottles there was a little improvement, so we persevered, until a perfect cure was
effected, using m all 12 bottles. We cannot say enotigh in praise of Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, and consider the cure a marvellous one.”
Pour years later Mrs. Smith says: “The cure referred to still holds good I
am sure if Doan s Backache Kidney Pills were better known there would be less
suffering m the world.”
gds
9
Backache
Kidney
g
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
*ll Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
the cold steadiness of her blue eyes, as she
regarded the representative of law and
order amongst the convict servants—himself
a life l ' —that rather unhappy functionary
thought that he could discern something a
little baleful. He was right. There ivas
something baleful.
Jenlfivn, my man ” said Mr. Pilkington,
seriously regarding the constable through
his single eyeglass. “Mithith Pilkington
hath complained to me of the utter
lack of rethpectful dithipline in vogue
amongtht the thervanth. Thith ith not ath
it thyould be, you know. And I ecthpect
you to remedy it. *Tith your plathe to thee
to thuch thmgth, and I look to you to thee
that they are attended to.”
Mr.. Pilkingtqn was perhaps a little more
lobust than he had been upon his first com-
-g to t he Colony 16 years before this date
—lB6l. and his formerly clean-shaven and
handsome face was now ornamented with
golden-brown side whiskers, clipped close,
that came down nearly to the angle of the
jaw on either side. He was as immaculately
arrayed as in those early days, and spoke
with the same tired and good-humored con-
descension. He went on:
“Mithith Pilkington had occathion thith
morning to walk through the orchard, where
live men were at work. Not one of them
thtood at attention atft the pathed by, nor
dm they take the thlightetht notith of her
prethenth. Thith ith bad, very bad—and
you mutht be held rethponthible for it, Jen-
kyn, my man.”
“Indeed, if your honor doth please,”
agreed the wiry little Welshman, “they are
ferry great plackguards. Tainned Irish, y’r
honor —a-savin' my lady’s presence. ’Twill
lie a cobd thing if they wass whipped—'
ipdeed, yes! Shall I take them into Scone
to the machistrates, y’r honor? Indeed,
twould pe putt what they wass deservin’
.He wa? interrupted by Mrs Pilkington.
My good man ! Taisez-vons, if you please.
Allow me, Arthur, to make a suggestion.”
“Tassy-vee, ma’am! I pegs y’r Ladyship’s
pardon, ferry humbly— indeed! I haf not”—
Mr. Pilkington checked him with a motion
of his hand.
“Quiet, Jenkyn—a moment. Well, my
dear? What do you suggest?”
But Mr. Jenkyn—as it is with the Welsh
—was not easily silenced.
One moment, y’r honor—l beg of you.
Pis putt right an’ proper these Irish plack-
guards should suffer for the ferry wrong 1
thing they haf done. Indeed, yes. Would
not y’r honor permit me to teal with each
one of the fillains? With my two fists, I
mean, y’r honor — and your Ladyship,” he
added uneasily, with a sidelong look at his
frowning mistress, who was now upright up-
on the sofa, and whose languid indifference
of aspect had transformed itself into an ap-
pearance of fiercely latent hostile energy.
Mr. Pilkington jumped to his feet in de-
light.
Oh, hjr Gad, yeth. Jenkyn ! A very good
notion, my man. One of them wath Big
1 ac.dy Drithcoll, who’th been a heavy-weight
boxer. You can belt the otherth‘ all to-
rether—but you and Paddy’ll be a reallv
eethellent match! If he hath weight and
reach, you have thienth. You haven’t for-
gotten all you learned from dear old Ike
Thimmonth in the old dayth, have you,
Jenkyn? Thplendid ! Jutht the thing ! We’ll
make a match of it. I’ll thend into Thcone,
an’ we’ll fetch Dr. Wamthay out to-morrow.
It’ll be fifty latheth for Paddy if you beat
him. I’ll tell him that. And a recommenda-
tion for a conditional pardon if he winth.
Immenth ! The very thing ! Oh, gorgeouth !”
Mr. Pilkington had known the constable
years before, in England, when he was assist-
ant to that prince of pugilists, Isaac Sim-
mons, the renowed Tilbury Trifle, who had
imparted to the lord of Moorefield his- by no
means inconsiderable knowledge of the noble
art. A similar —though somewhat more pro-
fessional—knowledge had obtained for the
Welsh lightweight his present position of re-
sponsibility and trust. He was enthusiastically
in favor of Mr. Jenkyn’s proposition. Paddy
Driscoll would fight for freedom, Llewellyn
Jenkyn for a continuance of place and power
amongst his less fortunate contemporaries
who were of the station-hands. He would
invite to witness this remarkable and in-
teresting contest such of the inhabitants of
Scone as were eligible for his somewhat ex-
clusive hospitality—which, however, would
not interfere with his backing of the little
man, whose prowess he knew so well, against
the big Irishman. It would be delightful to
spring this dark horse upon his neighbors !
There would be a half-holiday for the assigned
servants on the station. He would do the
thing well. A dinner—perhaps dancing in
the evening. It was such a sporting pro-
spect as did not often occur up here in the
wilds. Immense!
But the liidy of Moorefield intervened. She
had no notion that her dignity should be
compromised in such a fashion. These in-
sufferable creatures should be punished in
the ordinary and proper way, for their gross
insolence. She would not allow the respect
that was her due to be made the pretext for
a brutal boxing exhibition. As well to stake
her personal chastity upon the result of a
cock-fight. Monstrous!
“Arthur,” she said coldly, “I shall not per-
mit such a thing.”
“My dear?”
She rose to her majestic height, and ad-
vanced to the table. Mr. Jenkyn cowered a
little. Tapping her fan upon the table’s
edge, she emphasised her words.
“These graceless creatures are to be sent
in to the Bench of Magistrates in Scone with
a request from you for 100 lashes apiece!”
“My dearest love — one hundred latheth!
Oh, too thevere —too thevere altogether, my
angel! Now, juth think over our plan. Much
to recommend it. Far better for the thake of
ditlupline—and more thportin’, I
you!”'
“Arthur!” she said coldly, as she turned
to leave the room, “I beg you to think of my
possible condition. I am not sure—l must
not be thwarted. I desire that these men
shall be corrected in the customary fashion.”
Mr. Jenkyn flew to the door, bowing low
as she swept from the room.
“Oh, if you put it that way !” murmured
Mr. Pilkington, as the door closed behind her.
He turned to the awe-stricken Jenkyn.
“Jenkyn,” he said solemnly—and perhaps
he winked—“you thee how it ith ? But,” he
added in a lower tone, “there are more wayth
of dealin’ with dogth than by flogging ’em '
Thtay a moment, Jenkyn, an’ we’ll dithcuth
the detailth.”
“ ’Tis no doubt,” Llewellyn Jenkyn re-
marked to the ill-favored Sally Lobb, the lady
from the Factory with whom he lived in
sin—“ ’tis ferry certain Mistress Pilkington’s
no friend to the likes 'of us—indeed, no!
She’s set her mind on havin’ these coveys
tied up, and nothing will do but that. Py
heavens, she even lets on to King Arthur”
—such was the honorary title bestowed, a
little affectionately, upon Mr. Pilkington by
his bondmen—“she pretends she’s a-goin’
for to have a babby, for that he’ll not trouble
her by denyin’ of her—indeed! But I tell ye,
Sally, my wench, King Arthur is cleverer
than she is. The men will not be flogged—
an’ I well peat Big Paddy plack and plue.
Yes. Mark my words.”
Down in a bend of the Hunter below
Moorefield Park there is a flat of rich brown
soil —twenty feet deep where the river cuts
a section of it—that to-day yields wonderful
crops of lucerne, but which was in 1832
only a grassy amphitheatre, lightly timbered
with enormous eucalypti, and with a curtain
of dark-green she-oak along the bank of the
stream. From the house the view of the
road from Scone is screened by these oaks
until it passes through them. The old man-
sion stands back a good quarter of a mile
from the edge of the amphitheatre, and 80
years ago. a lovely garden used to stretch
between—it is a little paddock with a
creamery, a hayshed and milking-yards in
it now, and only a few decaying roots, break-
ing the surface here and there, tell of the
time when it was the finest orchard on the
Hunter River.
In this sheltered stadium was a gathering
of divers sorts of men, who surged about a
big beer barrel for the most part, and appeared
to be eagerly intent upon the movements of
two half-naked athletes who faced each other,
with their seconds, in a roped-off enclosure
--lit. square—a' piece of grassy sward be-
low a spreading “apple” tree. A slight
distance apart from the mob of convict ser-
vants and humble free men appreciating the
beer was. a little group of the notabilities of
the district—top-hatted and buckskin-panta-
looned-—who listened with interest to what
Mr. Pilkington was saying.
“The conditionth of the match, gentlemen,
are a litle thingular,” he was saying. “Pat-
rick Drithcoll, here, is thirteen-thun-tliicth,
an ( onthtable Jenkyn a bare ten. You may
have your choithe of them. ’Tith a contetht
of thtrength verthuth thienth—for though
Diithcoll wath a boxer of thome ability in
former dayth, Jenkyn hath been athithtant to
Ithaac Thimmonth, whom you all know of.
Iko be pleathed to make your wagerth,
gentlemen. For my part, I am prepared to
give oddth of ten to one on the bantam.
Have I any takerth?”
There were many backers of the big, flame-
headed Irishman among the gentry, but none
in the ranks of the prisoners. They knew
too well the fistic abilities of the little Welsh-
man to risk their bits of negro-head tobacco
upon his opponent.
‘‘Gentlemen,” went on Mr. Pilkington,
‘‘ath I have mentioned, the conditionth of
thith match are peculiar. If Drithcoll winth
he ith to rethieve hith condithional pardon-
but if he lotheth, he ith to have fifty latheth
for intholenth to my wife, in failing to
thalute her. If Conthtable Jenkyn awinth, he
will retheive all my winningth in betth. Tho
I think you can depend upon a willing g 0
Dr. Wamthay, our worthy Polithe Magis-
trate, hath kindly conthented to act ath
time-keeper. Pray commenth protheedingth
whenever you are ready, my dear doctor.”
A cheer started amongst the servants, but
it was strangely strangled in its birth.
Through the trees, across the sun-mottled
green turf, came, riding, Mrs. Pilkington
The whole assemblage seemed to petrify in
her presence. It was as though the Angel
of the Lord had suddenly appeared in some
den of guilt. No one knew what such a
visitation portended, but all were aware that'
it was more than portentous.
This apparition from another world rode
through the awe-struck crowd of commoners,
and halted her horse before the group of
gentlemen. Immediately ensued a doffing
of the top-hats, a bowing, and polite mur-
murrngs of respectful greeting. The lady
inclined her head in haughty acknowledg-
ment, and then addressed her husband.
“Arthur,” she said, "tea is in the draw-
ing-room. Will you ask our guests to com-
up to the house, if you please?”
“My dear”—began Mr. Pilkington.
“Tea, Arthur, is awaiting’, these gentlemen
in the drawing-room.” she repeated. “Gen-
tlemen, I will be gratified if you will accom-
pany my husband to the house, at once.”
“A dominating personality, by Jove!” cx-
claifned Dr. Ramsay, as he led the way up
to the house. Mr. Pilkington remained
behind —very red in the face. llis lady
took no notice of him.
“Driscoll,” her musical voice called, “come
here. No, don’t put on your jacket—come
as you are.”
Sheepishly the big Irishman stepped across
the ropes of the prize-ring and stood before
her. The rest of the concourse gaped at
them with open mouths.
“Stand there —on the offside of my horse,”
she ordered.
The bewildered man did so.
“Turn round!” she commanded.
Amazedly he obeyed her. Then, raising
the whip she carried in her little gauntletted
right hand, she lashed him once across the
naked shoulders. He jumped round in as-
tonishment.
“Driscoll.” she said calmly, “you may con-
sider yourself as having been flogged for your
insolence to me. As for the rest of you,”
she murmured gently, “you will bear in ‘mind
that if I say that any of you are to be
punished you will be punished. That is all.
Arthur, let us rejoin our guests.”
Speechless,. Mr. Pilkington walked beside
her horse towards the house.
“Py Cod an’ Saint Daffid,” exclaimed Con-
stable Llewellyn Jenkyn, as the astounded
gathering watched them go, “she iss indeed
the mistress. Py Cod !”
J. H. M. ABBOTT.


M t:
- : -
** Cf
!XW
/■vV
. 1 - SB
I ; f •| IW
At: "irtrC' I
“ ' s£t «r I
' ;4r#f|
' y 7Wm iflfl
A * I
"£*k% • •'••■ •■ 'gfc,' JM
> I
... •■?'>
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
*• .*■
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTIHGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—96 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
OR LICK’S
MALTED
-MIL
IhVW-' 0 *
~°’®«CRMIU
»T uiirfi r****
s*
!»»«!!
The Ideal Food-
Drink(Milk, Wheat,'
and Malt). Keeps'
for years and never '
becomes stale or loses ]
any of its admirable]
qualities. It is made!
in a moment, any-j
where. Only water/
is needed.
i
In hot climates it
invaluable.
2
Xo Slioft«j>e. Ample Supplies.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wh Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood, Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
eBJ PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.VV.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian.
Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable new's from Australia and news,
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, WXL,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
■
4 HAIRDRESSING
SALOON.
Perfect in
Equipment
The finest in Sydney. Every
modern appointment, conveni-
ence and comfort.
Craig 8 Aitken’s Saloon Employs
Seven Expert Hairdressers—
men whose training and experi-
ence have been gained in the
best saloons of the world.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY will
find Craig and Aitken’s Saloon
conveniently near the Central
Railway Station —almost next
door to Anthony Horderns’.
Prompt Service Guaranteed.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR, here
illustrated. and for which
Craig and Aitken’s are Sole
Agents in Australia, is the Razor
we have used in our Saloon for
over 30 years.
PRICE 12/6 POST FREE; or
Pair in Double Case, 25/- '
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
8
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Sand for
Illustrated
- Folder
Vi
&
The muscles that play under-
neath the skin of an athlete are
the human braces built by
nature. They hold the figure
with bands that give ease and
grace to movement.
The President Suspender Com-
pany studied the natural
anatomy of the figure in shaping
Shirley President Braces.
Look for the name —“Shirley
President”—on the buckles.
This is your guarantee.
Sold by
LEADING MERCERS EVERYWHERE.
am
<
Shirley, Mass., U.S.A.
Established in 1876.
Australasian Representatives:
WALTER CATHRO PTY., LTD.,
59 York Street, Sydney; 16 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Only Those Who Are Well
can be said to know the joy of living. Nothing can compensate for
the loss of health. Dyspeptic millionaires are by no means to be
envied. On the other hand, no man is really pobr who is rich in health.
People who possess abundant energy and vitality, although in
indifferent circumstances,
Are Really Well Off.
In our pursuit of prosperity our first aim should be to secure .health
and fitness and to this end we should be particularly careful to
maintain the efficiency of the digestive organs. For this purpose we
shall find nothing better than the systematic use of Beecham’s Pills.
They keep the stomach strong, the liver active, the bowels regular
and the blood pure and thus make it easy for one to be well.
BEEGHAM'S PILLS
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, labelled ls-l|d and 2s-9d. ( original English prices.)
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIK CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is- suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
,
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
■v- ' '/'■ ' . V •
TAN KS
When we speak of a tank we picture a huge
cumbersome box of machinery bristling with
guns. Yet Carter’s Little
Liver Pills, one of the
smallest and most success-
ful pill in the world,
can be compared to
tanks in action, for
they surely and
gently touch the
Liver, curing
Bilious Headache,
Constipation, etc.,
just as tanks sur-
mount, obstacles and clear trenches of the
enemy. Try them to-day, your chemist has
them. Good for man, woman and child.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price,
dsg
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
GENUINE must
bear signature
ds
QUEENSLAND
MOST RESOURCEFUL OF
THE AUSTRALIAN STATES
Visitors to Sydney • and residents of A ew South Wales
when seeking information about the Great Northern State, whether
from a tourist, land settlement, scientific or investment point of view,
should first enquire at the Sydney Branch of the
Queensland Govt. Intelligence & Tourist Bureau.
Full Information and Descriptive Literature supplied FREE.
ADDRESS: 279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. SB.
SI
A
m
r TO BE CERTAIN
that you have a genuine imported
factory loaded Remington UMC cartridge—
Examine the brass base of the cartridge for
the company’s own marking.
REMINGTON NITRO CLUB ARROW NEW CLUB
smokeless
powder
smokeless
powder
smokeless
powder
black '
powder
gds
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative
Box 686, G.P. 0., Melbourne
“Dreadnought” Wire Strainer
g
Post Free
{ Patented >
u »
12/6
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
dsg
The Simplicity, lightness and excellence "of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


EVELAND
■
V
m m
: '
■ I 7
mlSmm
'
It,
! ,■
' . i\
<L
i
/
75
!2
RS
n
,\\ .... *
fc'**2«2ss22***
W
l
f/o
warn
. -
THE CAR WITH A CONSCIENCE.
The CLEVELAND makes a triple appeal to motorists as the LIGHTEST of
LIGHT SIXES:— (1) is LIGHT in Initial Cost.
(2) It is LIGHT in Running Cost.
(3) It is LIGHT in Upkeep.
In short, it is a Car YOU CAN AFFORD TO BUY, and a Car YOU CAN AFFORD
TO RUN.
And it cannot be too strongly emphasised that the CLEVELAND is a “SIX,”
and not a mere “FOUR.” It is a well-known fact that a six-cylinder motor has the fewest
cylinders that give approximately a CONTINUOUS FLOW OF POWER, as it has
PERFECT MECHANICAL BALANCE, which results from the OVERLAPPING OF
POWER IMPULSES. In other words, before the cylinder that is on the firing stroke
reaches the bottom of the stroke, another takes it up.
The designer of the Cleveland is Mr. J. V. Whitbeck, who designed the famous
Lozier engine—admittedly in the Rolls-Royce class. Asked to design a cheaper engine, he
gave the world the Chandler Six, and now he has gone one better with the Cleveland Six.
Ring City 2567 and arrange a demonstration. PRICE ONLY <£*
IB
Garage and Showrooms
147-51 Castlereagh
