

DE'WAB J S —The Spirit of Age and Wisdom
R. G. WATKINS «S& CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Street, Sydney,
Mining - and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ F °and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in ail parts ot New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
MONEY
ON EASY
TERMS •:>;
=gET~- ON all CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION.
| N S W-MONT de PIETE
J ~ D>l C°r LIMITED.
74 Casllereagh St.74.Sydney
CAPITAL 5,200,000 ‘Fhorve Cit,y 9325
SrjfjcAes Jt- 29 King St.. Newcastle. N-SW- 21517 Swanstoii
40 Adelaide st.,snsbane.Q, 197 A Castlereagh St., 159 George St. West, Sydney.
Joseph W Hill. General Hanasren
&
r
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
‘CHROMOL
99
(Trade Mark)
The Super Driving Belt.
The largest mining and smelt-
ing plants use “Chromol,” because
of its proven superiority over all
other Belting.
Sole Makers:
J.C.LudowicilSon Ltd.
Pioneer Leather Belting Works,
117 York Street, Sydney
Pioneers and Leaders since 1858.
THE BEST !
w
m
:
n
m
n£z pl
n i§W\
nd
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN'S
For INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
The artistic economical panelling
Amiwud will express perfectly many of your artistic plans for the home-
beautiful. It is a thick, tough wall-hoard grained and prepared to be a
direct reproduction of Golden Oak—it is also made “Plain” to take paint
or kalsomine. Amiwud is easily fixed and very low in cost, vermin-proof
and fire-retardant.
Write for samples and illustrated booklet; post free.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (P. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
Tl
s
O
A new and revised edition of the
"ffefefee ” is now available,
and will be sent post free on
application to
JOHN LYSAGIIT (Australia) LIMITED
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY,
the recognised standard
of quality throughout
the Commonwealth
Horndale
ORM£i KEIGWIN (8b CO. LTD., SYDNEY Sole Agents
(A mature, high-
grade spirit).
Special Metals for Engineers.
Australian Made. Immediate Delivery. Quality Guaranteed.
“ OROPELLOR” Brand Brass, Muntz Metal, Manganese Bronze
1 and Copper in round, flat, square and hexagon sections.
Also Commutator and Busbar Sections for electrical work. All
trade sizes at lowest prices. Write for quotations.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNE.Y) LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
(MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD., 499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne ; and Darling Building, Adelaide.
£. BERNAYS, 125 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; and GEO. KENT LTD.,
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay.
■ «r
The Bulletin
VoL 41.—N0. 2090.
Thursday, March 4, 1920.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper*


CorsetOaftfe
GRACEFUL, LIGHT, DISTINCTIVE
CORSETS & BUST BODICES.
Particularly suited for colonial wear
Madame Soum’s creations embody the
latest Parisian style, comfort- and
elegance. Made of specially
light material—unstretchable,
keep their shape, bones un-
breakable.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Illustrated catalogue, giving full par-
ticulars and self-measurement form,
free on application.
MAISON SOUM,
193 Regent Street, London W.,
England.
And at PARIS.
£,,«
One of Madame
Soum’s own cre-
ations, corset
and bust bodice
combined.
Corsets from 39/6. Send for catalogue.
■ 1 1:1
BRAND
BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA—CoIIins House, Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW-SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, Sydney - - - Phone City 2677
QUEENSLAND—CampbeII’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane Phone 2382
This Week’s Toilet Hints
THE LATEST AND SMARTEST BEAUTY RECIPES COLLECTED
FROM VARIOUS EXPERT BEAUTY WRITERS.
A “BLACKHEAD” SECRET.
An instantaneous remedy for blackheads,
oily skin, and enlarged pores.
Blackheads, oily skins and enlarged pores
usually go together, but can be instantly
corrected by a unique new process. A tablet
of stymol is dropped in a tumbler of hot
water, which will then of course
briskly. When the effervescence has subsided
the face is bathed with the-- stymol-charged
water and then dried with a towel. The
offending blackheads, of their own accord,
come right off on the towel, the large oily
pores immediately contract and efface
themselves naturally. There is no squeezing,
forcing or any drastic action. The skin is
left uninjured, smooth, soft and cool. A few
such treatments should be taken at inter-
vals of three or four days thereafter in
order to ensure the permanence of the pleas-
ing result so quickly obtained. Stymol tablets
are obtainable from your chemist in
original packages.
GREY HAIR—HOME REMEDY,
An old-fashioned home-made recipe restores
youthful appearance.
There are plenty of reasons why grey
hair is nott desirable, and plenty of reasons
why hair dyes should not be used. But,
on the other hand, there is no reason why
you should have grey hair if you do not
want it. To turn the hair back to a natural
color is really a very simple matter. One
has only to get from the chemist two ounces
of concentrate of tammalite and mix it with
three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the hair
with a small sponge for a few nights and
the greyness will gradually disappear. This
liquid is not sticky or greasy and does not
injure the hair in any way. It has been
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the for-
mula, •
TO KILT ROOTS OP SUPERFLUOUS-
HAIR.
‘‘Home Science.”
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how
to kill the hair-roots permanently. For this
purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair
growth. The recommended treatment is de-
signed not only to instantly remove the hair,
but also to actually kill the roots so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol, obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient,
THE REAL CAUSE OF MOST BAH
COMPLEXIONS.
“Health and Beauty.”
It is an accepted fact that no truly
beautiful complexion ever came out of jars
and bottles, and the longer one uses cos-
metics the worse the complexion becomes.
Skin, to be healthy, must breathe. It also
must expel, through the pores, its share of
the body's effete m a ter i all Creams and
powders clog the pores, interfering both
with elimination and breathing. If more
women understood this there would be fewer
self-ruined complexions. If they would use
ordinary mercolised wax instead of cos-
metics they would have natural, healthy
complexions.
ABOUT HAIR TONICS.
“Novel Recipes.”
Each week almost one hears of some
wonderful discovery for improving the hair,
and although this paragraph may seem a
little superfluous, an old-fashioned recipe
may come as a welcome change. One thing
about it is that it will grow hair, and also
prevent it falling out. From your chemist
get an original package of boranium, to this
add i-pint of bay rum, allow it to stand
30 minutes, then add sufficient water to
make half-a-pint. Rub briskly into the
scalp with the finger-tips, and you will im-
mediately experience that clean tingling
sensation which is a sure sign of healthy
action. [1
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
For COUGHS ! COLDS ! INFLUENZA!
and the PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION!
tSOST KKf&RtMI. W it
SAfa AKD PVCASAKT GtRHIOOt l‘ll
. ARD AKTISemC MBffHM Cb*®3!
MEDSCAX. 6RI2TU'U«
! ' SMogu> racial op gr**
«K«tV)C6*
G.HUDSON
MBMwßggaaaMHj^Eigs!!
s-iTVMs:
HARMFUL THROAT TABLETS.
Throat Tablets and Lozenges containing Formalin
(Formaldehyde) are harmful. Wiley, of the United
States, investigated the effects of small doses of
Formalin (Formaldehyde) given with milk on 12
men during 15 days. Burning in the throat, itching
rash and loss of body weight were observed.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no Formalin, Cocaine or other harmful or
poisonous drug.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6 in stamps
to the Manufacturers, Hudson's Eumenthol Chemical
Co., Ltd., Sydney. r*
The Red Page
Rupert Brooke, R.N.V.R.
The assumption that Rupert Brooke is
a major poet because he wrote some excel-
lent verse and died of anthrax in the Aegean
Sea on April, 1915, is not fair to Brooke, to
his memory or to his place in literature.
Blind enthusiasm born of irrelevant events
has put too many first-class singers on the
shelf; too much is expected from the noise
of talk; the disappointed reader stops, sorry
that he was taken in. Chatterton wrote fine,
eloquent lines, for instance —pages of them ;
hut he abides as a very unread minor poet
who told lies about imaginary documents
and poisoned himself. Criticism—even harsh
criticism —gives a man and his work a fairer
deal than the notoriety or distinction of his
physical adventures. Great personal beauty
hampered Brooke, too ; and a vibrant, pul-
sating youth which put him, modest as he
was, in persistent full-centre of the stage.
Also, the young singers of England were com-
ing into their own at the time of his advent.
The Victorian ’Varsity poet condemned to be
a poetaster in a Government billet had
gradually disappeared ; he had become a jour-
nalist in verse, earning his living by his pen.
EJVerard Meynell and Harold Monro help
him in this. They keep him, and such of his
work as is good, in the public view—publisl
current anthologies of him at the Poetry
Bookshop, courageously naming each volume
“Georgian Poetry, 1916-1917,’’ or whatever
the year is. The Bookshop publishes chap-
books by its poets at Gd. and Is.; rhvme-
sheets at 2d. plain and 3d. colored; it holds
weekly, readings of poetry, the charge for
admission being 3d. a head. The thing does
much good work. Its aim of “establishing a
practical relation between poetry and the
public” is simply and steadfastly pursued, in
manner marred very little by affectation of
format or attitude. Its commercial security is
much better than you would expect. The
anthologies, of which, since the 1912 founda-
tion, four, I think, have been published, run
into nine and ten thousand; the broad-sheets
and secondary lines show an avowed “decent
profit,” especially at Christmas and gift-
making times; and the expenses of the tiny
shop in the Bloomsbury slum should be very
small. And there you are—or, rather, there
you „ were ’ PhPer and printing probably tell
a different story now.
The young poets presented by the Book-
shop get thus their hearing and publicity,
both hitherto most difficult things in London.
A measure of freakishness, in matter, and in
manner, is necessary for London literary pub-
licity ; and in the cases of some of the young
poets, harmless University men and so on,
this is well enough—the freakishness is about
the sum-total, I think. But as strangers in
a strange land, pieces by Rupert Brooke
appeared in “Georgian Poetry,” pieces most
nearly exemplifying the brave title of the
books. The youth’s work was in a totally
different class from that of his companions,
its width of promise as astonishing as its
early achievement. It makes his death and
his face, his youth and “Georgian Poetry” all
unimportant adventures for him, however
steadily they keep him still in that deadly
. full-centre. •
In modern English verse the ancient sacri-
fice of thought for music is not offered up.
Plain statement of thought is encouraged, the
music meanwhile often going to the Devil.
This is singularly justified by results in
Brooke’s verse. With the Exception of one
or two of the latest sonnets, and a few stray
lmes ip “The Old Vicarage, Grantchester,”
there is hardly any form-music to my ear
anywhere in his better verse. But there is
more than that, important as it is in verse-
expression. In “Mary and Gabriel” (“1914
and Other Poems”) a rugged, most unmusical
thought-monologue of Mary is so vivid, so
inspired in deep knowledge of the woman’s
heart, that the driest, severest critic is car-
ried away by the beauty of the work. It is
incredible that a youth of 25 years could
have got that upon paper, that that astonish-
ing insight could have been given to him.
The theme of the Annunciation seems®to
demand a rapt, “Blessed Damozel” treatment,
its supernatural calm held by a steady bal-
ance in phrasing, no break in the music giv-
ing the tranquillity of the dramatic atmos-
phere a chance to break. But you throw
away the footrule of scansion and you absorb
the rough lines cut up by periods and semi-
colons m most unlawful places. At the end
you take a breath : there are no rules for
where, in the name of goodness,
did this college-boy learn it all?
A lower level of the same inspired vision
dictates the choice of vivid, illuminating
words m the sonnets written after the out-
break of war. The deliberate use of the one
word that he wanted in his phrase is con-
sistent with the full strength of Brooke’s
thought in these sonnets. The completed
picture does not lose by the right thought-
word being occasionally the wrong scansion-
word. The many broken, chopped-up lines
do not spoil the verse effect nearlv so much
as such serious lapses should. The inspira-
tion carries the things shoulder-high over
their audacities. I can see a time not many
years after April, 1915, when the audacities
and the arbitrary choice of words for their
grade of meaning—when the use of a stum-
bling ruggedness of medium instead of the
smooth line of precedent; when all that
instinctive rebellion —would have ranged
itself under the laws of the art, which give
the only chance of true freedom in song.
Brooke would have spoken with a great voice
perhaps the voice of the major poet.
On a lower level still “The Old Vicarage,
Grantchester,” sings in the Rerlin cafe its
song of home-sickness for Cambridgeshire
Of its kind the poem is nearly perfect. Witty
satirical, even dramatic, there is an under-
tow of deep feeling rising on occasion to
passages of real beauty. The vision is ultra-
modern ; in semi-satirical, almost “fashion-
able” expression _ of inexpressible depths of
the heart, the thing is a masterpiece. It is
difficult to grasp the fact that it and “Mary
and Gabriel” were written bv the Same youth
On the foundation of this achievement’
small m quantify but very good in quality’
it is not hard to build a high promise. It
is a critic’s habit to speak of promise in a
mans work when that is the least unkind
thing that he can say, or when for his own
Purposes he would squash with faint praise.
But in Rupert Brooke’s matter there is a
surging promise as undeniable as the day and
as obvious. The fly that stung him and sent
him to the sick bay of his ship, and to his
death in his dawn, killed probably the deepest
possibility in modern English letters.
FRANCIS BRIEN.
More War Philosophy
The Peace has led to a rush of semi-philo-
sophical books which say very much the same
thing. No family is complete without one
of them, but 999. of them threaten to be a
bore. Europe and the League of Nations, by
Charles Sarolea, is highly interesting, which
doesn’t necessarily prove that it is highly
accurate. The writer (who, among other
things, is a Doctor of Jurisprudence of Cleve-
land, Ohio, U.S.A.) expresses the usual
mild, large-minded doubts, which are the
fashion with his class, as to who .really
started the war. Certainly it isn’t good to, be
sure of anything without searching the evi-
dence. If it is proved after deep investigation
that it was really the Christians who per-
secuted Nero and that Eve ate the serpent
instead of the apple, these matters should
be frankly admitted. However, quitting the
past, Mr. Sarolea thinks that the position in
the present is serious; that Germany is pro-
bably a greater menace than ever, seeing that
it has escaped devastation while France, Bel-
gium, Serbia and Koumania are largely
desert, and seeing that the Alliance has lost
liussia. These things are so obvious that it
is hardly worth while stating them. But he
ambles into strange by-paths when he com-
plains because the Allies made a peace of
compulsion, inasmuch as that sort isn’t last-
ing. Certainly no treaty is lasting, but
one of force lasts longer than most kinds—
if there is enough force. Anyhow, it was
the only sort that the Allies could get.
What the Allies should have done, accord-
ing to the doctor of jurisprudence of Cleve-
land, Ohio, was to restore the peaceful little
German States which were either annexed
by Prussia in 1866 or attached by duress in
1871 to an empire of which Prussia was the
head —in other words, to put the harmless
old German Confederation again between
France and Prussia. The difficulty is that
the little principalities W'ere, in many cases,
mere royal or princely estates, and sometimes
mere creations of a sovereign’s last will and '
testament. When the ruler of Hohenschloss
divided his property and his people among
his three sons there might epierge the three
petty States of Hohen-Herringhausen,
llohen-Kipperhausen and Hohen-Schnapper-
hausen, and then any one of them might
make an enlarged State by marriage with
the family of Duffleheim. As republics these
States are impossible, for only their rulers
kept them apart, and it is hardly possible
to find the old gang and make their people
accept them again.
It is, of course, inevitable that the gentle-
man who has been at Cleveland, Ohio, should
state that, the U.S. Civil War being the only
parallel to the late European conflict, the
U.S. modes of reconstruction and Lincoln’s
statesmenlike plan .of reconciliation (frus-
trated by his death)'should be closely studied.
There are really only these material points
on which the parallel fails: (1) The U.S.
trouble wasn’t based on dynastic ambitions,
for neither Lincoln nor Davis was a dynasty.
(2) Nor on military ambitions, for both
parties started without an army. (3) Nor
on lust of conquest, for the South, which
moved in the matter, only wanted to quit.
(4) It wasn’t meant to be a war at all but
merely a resignation. (5) There were-no
diverse languages or nationalities concerned ;
and no religious questions involved and no
colonies mixed up with the dispute. (6)
There were no submerged, disfranchised and
partly-obliterated peoples to be dug up, iden-
tified and re-established with fixed boun-
dax-ies; all that was x-equired at the end was
to declare that the border lines were prac-
tically where they had been. (7) There
were no intei’national complications worth
mentioning: the war was fought practically
on one line except towards the end, when it
may be said to have diverged into two lines;
there were few damages to repair, though
the Shenandoah valley and Georgia were
somewhat wrecked; and there was no herd
of royal pretenders on hand at the finish.
(8) The final troubles between the one big
winner and the one small loser arose through
the hasty granting of the suffrage to a crowd
of unlettered negroes who didn’t know what
to do with it, and as the Allies don’t pro-
pose to enfranchise the niggers in Prussia
the lesson fails. Possibly it is meant, how-
ever. that the northern policy of holding on
to South Carolina at all costs shows that
Britain should hang on to Ireland regardless
of consequences. Still there is a sort of
resemblance —the sort of resemblance that
exists between General Grant and Mary, the
tlirice-married beauty-queen of Scotland.
(Bell and Sons, London.)
Dickens—Continued
Sir Harry Johnston has won great dis-
tinction in the world of action ; but he probably
never before adventure*! anything so daring
as The Gay-Dombeys (Chatt-o and Windus).
Under guise of continuing to tell the for-
tunes of the various characters in “Dombey
and Son,” he paints a picture of- the long
period between the early seventies of last
century, and the outbreak of the war in
1914, As a novel merely the book is not
in the first class—such a book could hardly
be —but as a footnote to history it is of
surprising value. There is a skill, too, in
the characterisation which lifts it far above
the average work of fiction; and while there
is much that is unexpected there is none that
is not convincing. Every important phase
of English life is shown, and the great
figures of Salisbury and Chamberlain are
depicted off the stage of their triumphs and
failures. Salisbury looks large and whole-
some ; Chamberlain, thin, mean and self-
seeking. There are other characters,
evidently from life, who leave the reader
guessing; and three or four of the women
stand out triumphantly as types of the age.
No student in the future need go further
than this book to know what the last
auarter of the nineteenth century was really
like—modes, customs, inventions, policies,
dreams, even the changing slang and the
echoes of the popular music-hall songs are
there. The book is the big achievement of a
big man.
(Continued on page 24.)


sw^:>
"'W
****
y.^'-s
j : «
&fe&&:
23!L"W3i
W»? - ; '.'
m
- ■■■-•:,
lH
h i
SfSil!
s*c
mmm
mgmm
mw>sM
jSVJSS
sr
• «!>J
- ■■-;
&ffll
t»
®;tr/-^^r
ei
s*;*
M
K
E J; '
ps
jS^i-vS
SFS
St * <-V
P
I
iJffi'SS*SK
U4t
z&M
m
m
r>J&&.r-:
US;
*sr
m
k.\;
3j§&
/^^■Vf-yj:
'Mm
S3*
ifid- '*'■'.
it - N
am
■ sees
j k«
?v-r^.
rff
V'-s"." ‘iKcg.'va
SS
•X&4'
KX
M:
s
‘SfJ
/■' v
team
•*iWJ
SKjjsjgft
s®£f,. "' tj^
7-m*
•55
Si?''
'>.<V;
few*
Sis
555;
*.’ TV
!^f :;
:t- i
r\
'■ Wv
Cn-
m
m
- .
m
WMmm
m
9*3
SX, ,• >
i. ■'■• '-■ j -'>«*. < <sj<£a a
"Wr:
* ~ '>/."?£&ta
•■- 'R - .-/W^..^'
WV«*' ■*
t€.
m
73
K®?.
?£** ;.Cj,VV"-
sy
;■
M.
f?smT£
y**x
' JT
' .■> ¥.J
~^ : &i
ft?
V :■:-<
i
&
a
ira
lIS lUIIIV
s«sgsb!
m
Autumn & Winter
1920
Anthony Horderns’
Fashion Portfolio
HE handsomely-illustrated Fashion Guide con-
taining faithful representations of authoritative
Modes for Autumn and Winter is now ready!
Every page depicts with true fidelity the charming
conceptions which form part of the distinguished
assembly in Anthony Horderns’ Display Salons —
styles which interpret Fashion’s latest thoughts in
ways that are pleasing, refined and unobtrusive.
>l9 v®
Costumes, Coats, Furs, Hats, Blouses, Skirts,
Hosiery, Footwear—all are given prominence in
this Authentic Guide.
FREE AND POST PAID
to any address in Australia.
Write for a copy while the
supply is adequate.
®*\ly Universal Providers, New Palace Emporium,
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY N.S . W.


■ .
4
/
X
V.
N*
' m *b
There it is
The tyre that has been tried, approved,
adopted by motorists in all parts of the
world:
MICHE-LIN
Universal Tread
The latest creation of the firm
that made the first Pneumatic
Tyre for motor cars. Built folr
bad roads. Tread tough and
heavy aiid broad. Walls extra
thic ? *
Gives REAL protection against
skidding. Practical in every
particular. Characteristically
Michelin. Made in one quality
only: the Best.
Obtainable Only from Legitimate Motor Dealers.


For Sick Headache
Many people suffer at regular
intervals from sick Headache. The
trouble is caused by accumlation
of poison in the digestive organs
and this poison produces naugea
and the headache follows.
These distressing attacks may
be avoided. Pinkettes are dainty
little sugar-coated ovals that act so
gently that they are the ideal laxa-
tive to use in correcting a tendency
to sick headache. They have no
unpleasant effect to make them
objectionable to the extra-sensitive
sick headache pa ient. Old fash-
ioned harsh purgatives will not do
at all in such cases.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Where to Stay when Visiting Sydney
Cronulla Beach Hotel.
Direction Cronulla Hotel, Ltd.
Healthy, Invigorating SURFING Resort.
Tel., Ivogarah 19. Week-ends a Specialty.
J. A. GRANT, Manager.
Hotel c/e Luxe,
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS, surrounded by NATURAL
BUSH.
25 NEW BEDROOMS built over the water—
every room looking out to the Heads.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from Mos-
man. Amphitheatre Swimming
Baths. Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Tariff from 12/6 per day or
£3/10/- per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
Free Lolly Recipes
Sent on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope for Free Trial of Our
WORLD’S WORKS RECIPES, per-
sonally collected. After trying them
we think you will want to
Learn the Lolly Trade
from our books, 1, 2 and 3, on terms.
Necessaries sent Free Carriage Raid.
R. CROAKER (Depti 1)
Universal Chambers,
325 Collins Street, Melbourne.
EST. 1899.
CALL AND SEE PUPILS’ WORK.
CELEBRATED
83
The Rapid Cuiv lor Corn
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
« S , come a household word for the removal
of Corns old and voun? —hal’d nr soft and
that remedy is A’CORN SILK, which
removes ti e worst corn in a few clays, and the
sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure— kills them. It is a painless cure—
you don t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
tour or five days does it. It is a handy cure
no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:— °
2 U ii rt^i Sainsbury, Flinders Lans, Melbourne.
S' uj D ra^. le/ ' Warando Buildings. Adelaide.
R. w. Bradley, Fitzroy Bui ding’s, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
DrU n«J Buadries Ltd., Aberdeen House,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
, & 80., Merchants, Hobart.
' * 80., 18 Howard Street
Perth, W. A. f [
Wanted to Buy.
INUM, at £3O an ounce, we desire to Buy
any quantities.
. AX~"& -ROBERTS," Ltd., '23 Hunter St., Sydney.
&
4
Its better to smoke here
Than in the hereafter
Buy a
GBD
and get a devil, of a good smoke
MANY POPULAR SHAPES ON SALE EVERYWHERE
The GBD Pipe is made of
seasoned French Briar. Every
shape is perfectly modelled
and balanced.
Ask your tobacconist to show
you the GBD.
Williams'
V II
Shaving Cream
OQUEEZE a little Williams’
O Luxury Shaving Cream, on
your wet brush, or directly on
your face. It quickly gives a creamy,
seething lather that comes without
effort—sees the shave through, and
leaves the skin refreshed. —A full size tube
will be sent poft free from Williams’, Box
98, G.P.0., Sydney, on receipt of 2/- in
stamps. —You should also try Williams’
Holder Top Shaving Sticks,or Williams’
Shaving Cakes for the Mug.
old by chemists
ever> where
W 8
T G
1
Australian Slate Flagging
From MINTARO, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
is and was always FIRST for SIZE AND QUALITY.
Exhibits of Stone sent to the International Exhibition in London. Sydney,
Melbourne and Adelaide WON FIRST HONORS against the world. First-
class for Bread, Cheese and Butter Factories; Electricians and Billiard
Table Makers; for Wine Vats, Lavatories. Urinals, Street Flagging and
all Building purposes.
Unrivalled for Acid Resisting and Salting Tanks.
Can be procured ini’any quantity, thickness or size. Sizes at the Quarries
up to 100, feet by 20 feet by 6 inches. Write for particulars and prices.
THE MANAGER,
Mintaro Slate & Flagstone Co.,
Ltd.,
Sturt Street, South Melbourne.
THE MANAGER,
Mintaro, South Australia, ’
QUARRIES & HEAD WORKS.
DAVID J. GORDON, Secretary, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
“Hang them,
by the Loop”
“LESLIE”
Salt LicKs.
“teslie” Salt Licks are now made in Australia!
The demand has hitherto exceeded the supply, but from
now on there will be ample stocks to provide for the
requirements, of the whole of Australia.
Never mind the Imitations —insist upon
the original Lick—“ Leslie’s one
free from dirt, alum and other im-
purities. Best for all animals.
700,000 Cases Sold Last Year
All Storekeepers, Produce
Merchants, Saddlers and
Blacksmiths throughout
Australasia.
ft Merciful Man isMercifulto His Brufif
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Ancient West.
What is it in the West
That calls and calls to me,
That fills me with unrest
And will not let me be?
I cannot choose but heed
That summons on the wind ;
Is it more breadth I need
For body and for mind ?•
Is it some lonely track
That calls me on and on—
The embers, cold and black,
Of camp-fires dead and gone :
The haggard, broken men
Who camped within their gleams,
And dreamed and drowsed and then
Arose and passed like dreams ?
Or is it but the call
Of Nature, great and rude —
Of silence over all,
Vast space, vast solitude?
’Tis said that in wide lands,
Wide seas, the soul is drawn
More near by secret hands
To sunset, stars and dawn.
Am I so called to share
. In moods select, sublime,
With earth and sky and air,
Some wonder greyed by Time?
Is it the calm that reigns
Above, around, beneath
The mystic, mighty plains
That seem to dream and breathe?
Perchance some ancient quest,
Race-old, still calls me on,
Like those who wended west
Ere yet was Babylon.
To seek, and find, and know,
To dream, and fail, and die,
They followed where the glow
Of sunset lit the sky.
This truth grey years attest,
Though star or empire falls:
The West is ever West,
And evermore it calls !
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Snow Lyric.
The harps are mute among the trees—-the
lonely trees that silent stand
To list the lovely syllables that gleam and
drift across the land ;
And I see lilies ’mid the reeds, and all the
shoulders of the hills
Are wrapped in scarves of pearly grey like
fields of frosted daffodils.
The hard, brown voices of the soil no more
awake beneath the feet,
The muffled houses stand and stare like grey
old men across the street;
And all is pale and wondrous calm, till
harshly on the startled sight
A noisy raven preens his w’ings, then wheels
across a world of white.
ENGLAND.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
The Garden of Passion.
What but the wiue-red cincture of Dawn
waxed scarlet and blinding
To eastward, flame-like, or even as a
ghastly severing sea.
As our hearts grew pilgrim fain, and we
fronted the strange road’s winding
’Neath arches coral, and lilac and fire to
infinity—-
What but sea-pools were your eyes, misty
with sleep and wonder ? ■. ■
Shallows of’sun-sweet candor, deeps where'
the blue gleam glows—
Deeps that my laughter fathomed, finding
their warm lids under
A mirrored garden, roseless, at the heart of
morning’s rose!
Walled from the world (aye, truly, here
flares no pagan riot),
Iloney-petalled and vivid, with purple and
wine and blood,
Soberly walled and secret, what but the souk
'of Quiet
Sleeps in these flowerless alleys of leafage
and blind green bud?
Here where bloomless boughs stoop blindly
and shield our presence,
Let us scale the low wall, ’neath the sea-
green loom of the cedar tree ;
Perchance one flame-like flower glows bronze
in the placid pleasance—
So fair are the sheaths, how fair must the
mystic blossoms be!
In a little the hot, fierce tide, the quivering
amber of sunlight
Will brim, as with yellow wine, the gar-
den’s green jade bowl,
Till the numberless shadow’s, silver-shot,
wane, w’helmed in the one light——
In a little space we shall know if each
bud holds a flower soul!
Girl, shall we go? The glad road gleams
yonder, the tired feet befriending.
And shielding the souls of the many from
the splendors that madden and slay.
Shall w T e stay? ’Tis the hour of decision, and
life to its uttermost ending
Shall swerve to the choice. It is made ! Your
heart fklters, surrendering. “Stay !”
Stay! And the whole green heart of the
garden mantles and surges
With a sunburst of petals, vivid and vital
with carmine and gold :
And fiery as love that flares rose-red, o’er our
fate’s veiled verges.
High over the bronze-tinned cedars, the
pass’onate day is rolled.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


fil
Alfred Herbert” No. 9 Combination Turret Lathe
has universally proved its very high standard of efficiency by its extensive use in
the production of Aero Engines.
The rotary type of aeroplane engine must necessarily be accurately balanced, since
the whole engine revolves at a very high speed. The fact that most of the work is
slender necessitates machining to very fine limits indeed. These limits are accurately
produced, and referring to the illustration shows you the machining operation on one
of the cylinders.
“ALFRED HERBERT” Vertical Milling
Machine.
“LODGE & SHIPLEY” Sin. and 10 y 2 in.
High-speed Lathes.
“WILLARD” Tool-room Lathe with taper-
turning attachment.
“ALFRED HERBERT” Universal Tool and
Cutter Grinder.
POLLARD’S “CORONA” Drilling Machines,
including High-speed Radial, Sensitive
and Heavy-duty.
Large stocks are maintained of the most-generally-used sizes of a comprehensive line
of small tools and grinding wheels.
CHAS E. YOUNG
Sole Agent for
ALFRED HERBERT LTD
Machine Tool Malters and Importers, Coventry, England
Telephon s: City 10109, 10110.
Telegraphic ami Cable Address: “T.athe,” Sydney.
Codes Used: Ideber’s, Western Union and Private.
57 GEORGE STREET NORTH, CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
©
DENYER’S
Surgical Appliances
If the wearing of Surgical Appliances
would contribute to a betterment of
your health, by all means adopt the
appliance your particular condition
requires. We are open to give you
the best advice on these matters. We
are specialists in all kinds of Surgical
Appliances, including Trusses, Abdom-
inal Belts, Elastic Hosiery, Deformity
Appliances, etc., as well as Special
Crutches and Artificial Limbs. In
your own interest call or write with
every confidence.
Noted for Comfort and Efficiency.
Single 22/6, Double 32/6.
DENVER BROS.
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal Belts and Artificial Limbs,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
’VJ>.
y"l\
auft ♦ in c ,/<
m
A
H»l
m
i^^unam
IN
£T M&ts
°p ham, BACON.VEAW
*Nt> tongue.
g Miiiiuim^\\ni»\\\\\ni
A
Quick
Meal
and a
Ready One.
A Good Food and a Steady One.
When nature puts a zest in the appetite, the meal
most appreciated is the one that can be prepared
easily and quickly and that is sure to be enjoyed
by ali.
“REX” CAMP PIE
is the very thing. It is ready to eat straight from the
tin —is always fresh—appetizing, and tempting,
“REX” CAMP PIE is made from choicest se-
lected meats, perfectly cooked and flavored, then
packed in a delicious jelly. There is no meal
more delicious, more wholesome, and more trouble-
saving. Each tin contains enough for five persons.
Buy three tins to-day and be ready for emergencies.
ALL GOOD STORES SELL IT.
FOGGITT, JONES & COMPANY, LIMITED.
Packers of “Rex'’ Pure Food Produdts
i 1265 Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon
GOODRICH
HSHMOKOK . ' ’ * SnBQ
Safety Tread
U
tfimm
/k ifh,
TYRES
GSBSR&. ffIIESMMBUBBMKBKKKtnttKM
Quality first is ever the upper-
most thought in the production
of Goodrich Tyres, and gov-
erns every step of procedure,
from the purchase of the raw
materials to the final inspec-
tion.
The result is tyres of such
super-excellence that they
serve better, last longer and
give much greater satisfaction
than those made to sell on
price.
Goodrich Tyres are
Practical Tyres, Big
Mileage Producers and
“Best in the long run,"
Let Your Next Tyre
be a GOODRICH.
DUVAL CO
13 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
124 RUSSELL STREET,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE STREET,
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by I J ost as a Newspaper.
Vol. 41.—N0. 2090.
THURSDAY, AJARCH 4. 1920.
Price Gr.
“DRAT THAT BOY!"


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
‘‘Australia for the White Alan.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosmun, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO STJEStCRTRERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
l or £1 6s. Gd. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused. . , ~
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondenqe” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
•no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it ‘"ill be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if acceptable. Pet-
sonal applications for return of AS. cannot receive
attention. Tun Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand 'hat it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin anginal
humorous or other topical drawings in line o> wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted *or
Direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions, under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail , front Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.CJf:
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.i.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; International House,
\ lierk Street, Johannesburg ; Havana House. Durban,
and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.J G. S. Forsyth and Co., W Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C. : Boston Hat Works, Eighth Avenue,
West Calgary, Canada, v y '.
H.g.A.— rN., Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, Sari Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; J.
Roland Kay Co., IS.)!) Conway Buildings, Chicago,
U.S.A.; Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington,
U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth Avenue and 21th Street, New
York; Queen City-News Co., Randolph and Clark
Streets, Chicago; Golden Gate News Agency, 110
Market Street, Chicago; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., 11.5. A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 16$ Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Uoung , Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Ivong.— Brewer and Co., Peddcr Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. ’G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co,, S Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samaria and Kulamadan
and Port Moresby.
Fiji. —A Barker,, Suva: F. Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paver) : Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
tOoz., Id.; United Kingdom. All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one, newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise; Soz., lid.; Slos. to lOoz., 3d.;
tOoz. to 1?.0z., 3ld. ; elsewhere, bos., lid., and Id. each
additional Soz.
THURSDAY, MARCH 4, 1920.
THE REVELATION OF JOHN.
How to Vote at the N.S.W. State. Election.
(1) For anybody who is neither William Holman
nor John Storey.
(2) For Holman if necessary.
(3) For Storey if there is no way out of it.
Many people, also The Bulletin, imagined
that a recent oration of John Storey’s,
wherein John handed out everything to every-
body and something over, was the Labor
party’s policy-speech. Apparently, however,
it. was only a preliminary canter, for more
things have been promised on a still larger
scale. In fact, the competition between
him and Holman has grown so terrible that
there is nothing left but for the ’bus of
public affairs to drive on and leave the two
disordered futilities making proihisqs to each
other on the road. When, any ancient mari-
ner seizes the community by the button and
promises it at interminable length a new
heaven and a new earth, the simplest course
is to leave him the button and go away.
Holman had 60 wheat silos to his credit, all
built with loan money, and all about empty.
So Storey naturally declared for a lot more
silos, even if it was necessary to use them
for keeping dogs in. The Premier had
struck out a new line by promising to sub-
sidise or pension the third child and every
subsequent child in every family. The
leader of the Opposition said he would give
more than- the Premier gave, because what-
ever that might be it was clearly insuffi-
cient. He would also forthwith nationalise
the banks, and it doesn’t matter that bank-
ing is under Federal control; also insurance,
though that is under Federal control, too.
'«• '•p railways, which are within State juris-
.Hon. he gave these six undertakings :
To vigorously complete all unfinished railways,
starting work immediately and not letting up till
the finish.
To get to work on all lines approved but not yet
commenced, which are several.
To build an indefinite number of “light” lines in
addition.
To instantly or almost instantly provide Sydney
with underground railways.
To change the suburban railways to the electric
system.
To connect the northern railways of the State
(there are several of them) with Queensland.
Also freights and fares are to be reduced to
make the revenue less, and employees are
to be better paid and given a share in the
management to make the expenses more. And
by nmy of faking the accounts and turning
them into a pleasant lie, Storey proposes
to charge the losses on “developmental and
political” lines to general revenue and not
show them in the railway accounts. Charg-
ing the loss under a new heading won’t, of
course, make it any less, but it will be a
valuable essay 'on the inability of party
politics to be straighter than a ram’s horn.
# * * *
The Labor-leader’s other bids for a poorly-
paid job include: —
“The elimination of State competition with private
enterprise in social functions,” minimum standard
of comfort for all workers, automatic increase of
minimum wage as the standard goes up (apparently
it doesn’t matter what a man earns, the Storey
party having quite lost sight Of the eternal truth
that the world can’t have more than it produces),
a commission to fix fair prices, organise distribu-
tion, Control cold storage, prohibit “cornering” and
stop exports till local requirements are met (if
the Federal Government allows its claim to be
jumped) ; imprisonment of profiteers . (how he is
going to, reach J. and P. Coats isn’t mentioned) ;
increased guaranteed price for wheat payable in
cash (whether there is cash or not) ; new ports
north and south of Sydney; hydro-electric power
works (presumably on a bigger scale than Hol-
man's) ; creation of new' manufacturing centres;
water conservation (in addition to the schemes now
in hand) ; maintenance of public roads by the
Central Government, subsidies to local bodies for
the maintenance of roads (last returns showed that
out of the 132 shires 128 are subsidised already
and to the extent’ of about 9s. for every £ of
rates) ; country towns’ water and sew'erage to be
financed by the Central Government; Government
waggons for farmers; “a Great Department of
State for the protection and encouragement of
motherhood and child-life”; “living areas of land”
for ofr qualified settlers of all classes, including old
settlers who haven’t enough land (nothing said
about payment) ; an unlimited number more model
suburbs like Daceyvjlle, all people who so desire to
pe enabled to obtain .jfcheir own homes; a Rural
Bank which will issue bonds, also a plain Rural
Bank; co-operative societies helped with advances
from the State; a State export department which
will do. the selling overseas; loans to “co-operative
enterprises”; agricultural insurance, which many
companies have'found, a disastrous line, at reduced
rates; State ferries, coastal steamship lines, light
and power supply; State v'ire-netting and agricul-
tural implement factories; a State importing de-
partment ; management in part at least of all State
enterprises by the employees (the State will sign
the wages cheque and the employees will fill it in) ;
also a lightening of the burdens of the country
districts. '
There are other things in the Storey pro-
gramme, including exemption from all taxes
of a living allowance for every family, in
addition to pensions for infants Nos. 3
to 10. But the foregoing are the principal.
*** * -
It is -a list such as would have, kept
Napoleon busy. lie did much, but he didn’t
manage all that. Yet in addition to being a
soldier he was a marvel as an organiser;
he had absolute power for ten years; his
country covered a 8013,1101- area than
N. S. Wales; he had 27,000,000 constituents
in his own country to supply funds, and
he had unlimited powers of taxation. Also
he could buy the best talent, not inside a
small parly but in all the country, and pay
for it with titles as well as money—and
titles buy a good deal of talent. Storey
will have a’ precarious job if lie gets any
job at all, aiid will hold it subject to an
envious caucus which insists on regarding
him as a mere equal. Moreover, he is no
Napoleon. He is merely a Parliamentarian
from a rather untidy suburb who in all his
career (it began 19 years ago) was never
considered by his own party to be worth even
an honorary portfolio. lie has no experi-
ence of figures any more than of adminis-
tration, and probably* has less than a pre-
cocious office-boy’s idea of the of his
megalomania'e programme. His only pro-
posals for providing the heedful funds are
the abolition of the Upper House and State
Governor, heavier taxation on “unproduc-
tive. capital,” and a levy on “comrrtfercial
and industrial capital.”- The abolition of
the ornamental Excellency and the. useless
Upper House won’t save enough to pay
interest on one-quarter of the £13,000,000
that is being borrowed this year. There is
no unproductive capital in N. S. Wales un-
less it is proposed to seize on jewellery,
ornaments, pictures, superfluous furniture
and the' like. The earmark of a country
with unproductive capital on hand is that
it begins to lend money abroad and finance
fore gn’ loans and enterprises, for the
capitalist loathes with a great loathing to
see his money unproductive. N. S. Wales
shoWskno such symptom. It is a consistent
borrower but no lender. As for seizing
on capital invested in “commercial and
industrial enterprises,” that only means
closing up the enterprises and making an
end of employment. There is hardly an
enterprise in the borrowing and loan-monger-
ing Ma State which has superfluous capital
that can be confiscated without breaking up
the show, unless possibly it is foreign
capital that could hardly be stolen without
a war—and John Storey is no warrior.
The great Broken Hill Proprietary Co. looks
as big a sample of N. S._ Wales industrial
enterprise as is going. Yet a late return
showed that 760.000 of its shares were held
in London, and of the remaining 200,000 the
bulk were located in Melbourne and Adelaide.
Even the head office was out of Storey’s
jurlsd ; ction. Poor oM John can’t issue
notes, float forced loans, adulterate the coin-
age. levy on the hanks or make use of the
gold reserve, fo" all these are Federal
businesses. And his chance of raising volun-
tary loans depends entirely on the confidence
peonle with money, here and in London
qr New York, may chance to feel in John.
SAVING THE AUSTRALIAN DEFENCE
SYSTEM.
There are no pensions in the Australian
permanent forces. A superannuated or
invalided officer goes out with, at the most,
a small gratuity. He has made soldiering
his profession, and there is no calling which
is so liable to unfit a man for other work.
So his friends in the service combine to
keep him in his job, regardless of hjs inability
to perform it; an incentive, in addition to
that of camaraderie, being the hope that
others will do as much for them wiien the
time comes. It is all very natural and
human; but that is no reason why the tax-
payers should pour out money for work
which is not done, and at the same time
have the Australian Defence Force vitiated
from summit to base.
*■ * * *
The permanent soldier is supposed, under
the regulations, to eschew politics. In
reality, as every Federal politician knows,
the soldiers are among the most active lobby-
ists in the country. They have to he. Their
placid existence has been menaced on every
s.de during the, past five and a half years.
A levelling, democratic spirit? has pushed its
way into their midst. Efficiency has clashed
with seniority, and in most cases the latter
has gone down. Energy has been put before
age, talent before tradition both in the line
and at the various H.Q.’s. Faced with the
open competition of real soldiering, the regu-
lars could do little in the way of “working
points,” and in consequence a good many
of those who joined the A.I.F. were returned
to Australia or to England after extremely
short service in the face of the enemy, or
after none at all. But at home conditions
were different. It is much easier to “word”
a Minister than a Birdwood or a Monash.
That is why the permanent men are pro-
tected in their billets by all sorts of odd
devices. They appreciated at an early
stage, for example, that the Duntrooners
were dangerous. These young men—picked
physically, mentally and for character —-
were just the sort who might be expected to
interpret soldiering as hard fighting; who
would probably fight well; and who, after
distinguishing themselves, would become
infected with ambition and, on their return,
endanger other people’s positions. So it was
laid down that no Duntroon officer —not
even if he proved another Napoleon—
should be allowed to rise above major’s rank
in the A.1.F., and that each must revert to
his A.M.F. rank on his return. The Dun-
trooners justified the worst fears of the
interested parties who fixed up this ramp.
The Commonwealth is studded with lavishly-
decorated Duntroon men (“worth their
weight in gold.” according to lan Hamil-
ton) who quickly rose to be majors
in the A.I.F. and then halted at
that rank. They are , now drawing
subaltern’s pay once more —which, in-
cidentally, is about half that of a
fairly industrious wuarf-lurpper. Half-way
through 1916 the home-service officers dis-
cerned another peril amid the blood and
uproar of Flanders. Those permanent
n.c.o.’s who desired to offer themselves at
the altar of Freedom had been told in 1014
that they might do so on the understanding
that they would come back —if they did
come back—to their old ranks. There was
a provision at the time which said that “the
Governor-General. .. .may promote persons
to commission in the forces for distinguished
service in the field.” The n.c.o.’s relied on
that: their superiors on the belief that the
war would be short and that, anyhow, the
n.c.o.’s would do no arood. It became clear,
shortly after the A.I.F. reached France, that
many of the n.c.o.’s were going to do ve'\y
well indeed. So the provision was altered
to read that the G.-G. might promote persons
in “the Citizen Forces.” The old arrange-
ment- had been good enough during all those
years in which “persons” had had no chance
to distinguish themselves in the field, there
being no field to do it in, The moment the
opportunity came the very fair and demo-
cratic provision was wiped out. The gro-
tesque result is that in every Permanent
orderly-room, and on every Permanent
parade-ground in the Commonwealth there
are at work (often under junior officers who
have never seen active service’) w.o.’s and
sergeants who rose by sheer merit to be
lieut.-colonels, majors and, captains in the
A.I.F. Five of these men won ,D:S.O.’s
and three won bars. to. their DiS.O.’s—imme-
diate rewards for gallantry in every case.
And none Of them may now wear the rib-
bon ! The others hold lesser decorations.
If they complain the answer is that they are
at liberty to get out of the service.
In almost every other calling the five years
of war has meant five years wrsted. Civi-
lians who went away got out of touch with
their work; others filled their places, and it
became hard in many instances for the
straightest of employers to do the right
thing. In the soldiering profession it was
those who stayed, in Australia that went
back, By comparison with men who had the
handling of units in action on Gallipoli and
in Flanders our home-service, specialists be-
long to the fbnt-lock epoch. There was a
time when soldiering was one of the esoteric
professions.' No one knew much about it,
and a lot could be done with bluff. Those
happy days have fled. The. man who is
painting the barrack-wall may know more
about drill than the officer who is moving
the adjacent squad about; the supplier of
the lecture-room forms and desks was pos-
sibly a top-notch instructor himself before
he was demobilised. The modern trainee
knows ten times more about soldiering than
his predecessors dkl at Irs age. and any infor-
mation he lacks is made up by his expert
elders. But there is only one form of
the art that he has any use for. or ever
will have any use for—the A.I.F. sort. The
oM “spit and polish” school of warfare is
as dead in this country as the velocipede.
Within a few weeks —possibly even days—
the details of the Government’s land-defence
proposals should be put before the country.
It is generally recognised that the biggest
difficulty which faces the authorities is that
of getting Tithe trainees to regard anv scheme
at all with patience, much less enthusiasm.
There is one infallible method by which thg
Government w T ill cause any hoy or youth,
possessed of a relative who has served in
the late war. to view whatever scheme is
advanced with a blend of intolerance and
contempt, and that is by handing the admin-
istrative jobs to members of the Old Gang.
In every case wbere a permanent officer
did not serve abroad because he was too
old, or too enfeebled physically, he should
be retired. And in the few. the very few,
cases where young and fit officers were kept
at home against their will, an arrangement
should be made to employ them separately
from the C.M.F. The staff positions should
go exclusively to those ex-A.I.F. men, regard-
less of their present Permanent Army rank,
who did brilliant work in the field —which,
to the youth of Australia, is the only theatre
of the recent war that matters. Of course
the Government will be fiercely obstructed
if it attempts any such changes. But if it
hesitates Australia may dismiss the amlv-
tion to have a citizen force imbued with
pride of service and morale—the two things
which beget efficiency.
“BABY W EEK.”
There is perhaps no subject upon which
there is a greater unanimity of opinion
than the desirability of filling up our coun-
try with white population, preferably the
native-born.
Why preferably the native-born? Be-
cause we have always heal the opinion,
now proved beyond doubt in the welter of
war, teat the conditions of Climate and life
in Australia are such as to give the greatest
opportunities for the raising of a virile lace
possessing independence and initiative in a
marked degree. Our climatic conditions and
open spaces are such as to give opportunity
for physical development which scarcely
any otner country can offer, and certainly
none to so great an extent.
The heel of Achilles lies in our northern
tropical regions. Racial purity, policy anc
national safety at present demand that,
while we cannot fill these spaces ourselves,
we dare not open them to alien races, who
with their teeming millions can not only
soon fill those spaces, but, overflowing their
borders, open up the possibility of flooding
the rest of the continent and overwhelming
our handful of scattered population by sheer
weight of numbers. We are most lament-
ably short of the splendid type of citizen we
can so easily raise.
The world realises that the war 'has de-
prived it of almost a generation of the best
class of manhood, and all the civilised world
has shown that it cannot rest content with
mere lamentations, platform platitudes and
shaking of heads. Britain, the U.S.A.,
(Janaua, France, Poland, Belgium, and, last
but by no means least, Germany, with
her diabolical ingenuity in organisation and
method, have taken this problem seriously
in hand, and are determined not only to
lighten the burthens on the shoulders of the
.mothers, by ensuring them attention and
comfort during their time of trial, but also
by recognising that each child born is a
potential asset to its country.
No longer is the child’s future to be allowed
to depend merely upon the care and intelli-
gence, or lack of both, of its parents; but
every public body—nay, even every indi-
vidual—is to share tire responsibility of
securing for that child a fair start upon the
great highway of life.
All Governments admit the wisdom of this
course, and many of them give it forth as
their policy that it is a national duty, and
that money must be found to carry it out
effectively. In the United Kingdom and the
United States, particularly, the care of the
mother and the baby has been made a special
department of the Governments, and bureaus
have been established under the care
of a responsible Minister. But in other
places, though the sentiment is recognised,
money has not been forthcoming.
In N. S. Wales all political parties seem
agreed to do their best to forward
this great national object. The pre-
sent Government has spared no effort,
and has laid foundations in many
directions for action which only financial
stringency delays. The Government cannot be
blamed for this, and certainly no one can
accuse William Holman of neglecting this
urgent post-war duty. We must remember
that, after all, the ponulation of the State
is barely two millions. Taxation, both
Federal and State, is a verv heavy burden;
loan money is difficult to secure save at
highest rates; and there are many problems
of territorial development.
It should be recognised that no Govern-
ment can do everything. The public must
be behind it, not only passively but actively.
Fifty thousand babies under it months of
ogre died in Australia during the period of
the war. The s s gnificance of that “under
12 months” must be fully realised. __ There is
aixoti.er dangerous zone up to the fifth year,
but it is not comparable with the former
when we consider that our leading medical
men, since Charles Mackellar first began
the battle for the halves, have again and
again stated their belief that a probable two-
thirds of the children under 12 months might
have been saved.
“Baby Weeks” have been held in all the
countries mentioned, and they are intended
to be a period in which public attention
is universally directed to the study
of this problem. Throughout the State
nurses should be available; in crowded cities
and slums mothers should be assured of
sympathetic advisers and helpers. They
should learn from the clinics the systematic
methods of seeing that their babies are pro-
gressing as they should do —every baby;
not merely sick ones and those requiring
med'eal treatment, but the well baby, the
lusty little chap who. if given a show, will
develop into one of those fine types of men
who have done and are doing so. much to
build up our .nation.
Let the mothers know that they need no
longer listen to “the lady next door” as to
how to solve any problem with which they
may be faced. Let that spirit of emulation
be awakened amongst the mothers that they
should be proud to boast that tlieir child
is the best-cared-for and finest specimen in
the d'strict. Also let the State, at the least,
offer to every mother the opportunity for
that necessary rest and recuperation which
not only will save many lives, but will
enable the mother to return to her family
reinvigorafed—not weak, irritable and want-
i"? ip tpnt calm judgment so necessary to
those having the care of the young c ; tizen.
“Baoy Week” will show the public of the
metropolis, and no doubt the country through
the generosity and sympathy of the press and
the picture-film companies, many ways and


means available for advice and assistance of
which they are at present ignorant. It will
be held to
Awaken in every citizen a sense of responsi-
bility to the children of the nation.
Strongly impress each individual man and woman
with the" terrible wastage of human life that is
going on.
Make each one realise that if he personally
would only care enough, at least half the babies
who die might live to grow up into strong citizens.
Ensure that proper caie of maternity, and the
conditions surrounding it are national works of the
very highest importance. i;
These are the aims of the Royal Welfare
Society, which is controlled by a coUhcil
containing representatives of every body and
institution at work in this direction.
The society desires to form Welfare
Centres in all thickly-populated ayeas of the
State, which will vary according to the
requirements of the district, in a crowded
area such as Woolloomoolo<) the centre would
contain a Baby Clinic, Bure Milk Depot,
Day Nursery and Kindergarten School. This
means that instead of these institutions
being spread all over a district, any mother
in trouble would know that iu one particular
part of that neighborhood there was a place
where she could obtain the assistance of
any of these institutions. The woman would
know the location of the centre as well as
she knows where the local post office or rail-
way station is, saving her time, worry and
tiring journeys.
The very best instruction in mothercraft,
by means of lectures by public-spirited medi-
cal men, and also lectures of a popular
nature, would give every mother an oppor-
tunity of acquiring that useful knowledge
which the State is desirous she should pos-
sess.
Money is wanted for this great work, and
a subscription may save a child’s life. The
Royal Welfare Society is of opinion that
the work can be best carried on by enlist-
ing the personal interest and sympathy of
subscribers. By those actively engaged ill
the work as fit is now carried on, this
opinion is generally held. The element of
human sympathy is wanted to spread the
light. The society does not believe that
any purely Government department would
attract all classes to the same degree. There
are many branches of the work which are
most successfully and humanely carried on
entirely by the Government, and the officials
at the head of these departments are giving
most valuable and effective help to the
society. They realise that there is a very
large proportion of the public with whom
they do not and cannot come into contact.
To be effective, purely State control would
have to be compulsory, and this would rouse
opposition of no uncertain character amongst
the mothers. The mother is Nature’s guard-
ian of her child. The society only wishes
to make her more efficient, but: in no way
to intrude 'between her and her sacred trust.
L. R. INNES-NOAD.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Preference to the British Profiteer.
Auckland Geddes, President of the Brit-
ish Board of Trade, told the House of
Gommons that J. and P. Coats’s profits out
of cotton were made overseas, and that it
was undesirable to curtail its operations
since they “were a factor in maintaining
the flow of food and raw material toward
Great Britain.” The Cold Country lately
nearly lost the number of its mess
through practising Freetrade and not grow-
ing enough to feed itself. It relied on its
shipping to bring in food and raw materials
from the ends of the earth, and during the
war it lost 2217 ships, of 7,783,312 tons, and
very nearly lost its oversea dominions as
well. Geddes’s statement proves the
British Cabinet has learnt nothing from
that war. It will still rely on nig-
gers and foreigners to feed the country
and allow some of the best agricultural
land on the planet to remain fallow,
or to be used as deer and rabbit
parks, because Manchester will not permit
Britain to become Protectionist and by
tariff support its farmers, orchardists,
poultry farmers, dairymen and other pro-
ducers of food raised from the soil. There
is no need, though, why Australia should
allow j. and P. Coats to exploit it eter-
pally. Over and over again French and English
cotton manufacturers have tried to get into
this market, and just as frequently the
greedy Paisley combine has dropped its sell-
ing prices so as to keep out rival cotton
reels. So the price has soared from 24d.
to 10d., and looks like going to a shilling.
Under our tariff preference is given to
British cottons. It is a moot point
whether we shouldn’t, instead, pay a sub-
sidy to some foreign cotton competitors of
the Scotch sewing-cotton sharks to bring
them to _ reason. So long as Britain
does a fair thing we are quite prepared to
give her. preference. But when she admits
profiteering, and says that “the dominions”
are fair game for her profiteers, then the old
ideas about preference must be revised.
Queensland Rejected Bills.
The Queensland Labor Government the
other day sent 14 new members to the Leg.
Council, and now proposes to reintroduce
bills lately turned down by that Chamber.
But there are one or two points which the
new men ought to consider very seriously
before they put those measures through.
Since the bills were passed by the Assembly
there has been an appeal to the people—
an appeal to the people on the very widest
nossible franchise; a franchise settled by
the Labor party itself. Moreover, in that
appeal one of the two main parties was led
by T. J. Ryan, the State Premier who passed
these bills through the Queensland Assembly.
In the other States there was some blurring
of the old party lines; in Queensland there
was none at all; Labor, led by Ryan, wa.s
on one side, and the so-called Nationalists
on the other. It was a clean-cut contest
between the two, and a contest, moreover, in
which the Labor end was held up by the
organisation that controls the State elec-
tions. There was no large specific ques-
tion of Commonwealth policy involved. The
fight, was just between the Labor brand of
politics, as interpreted by T. J. Ryan, and
the other bjand. Thirteen seats were to be
filled. Labor contested all of them, and
won only three ; and the winner of one was
immediately disowned. Even, had Ryan not
been the Leader of the Labor party in this
fight, the overwhelming defeat of the party
in Queensland ought to make the reinforced
Council hqsitate to pass the bills that were
formerly rejected by that House. The hesi-
tation ought to be more pronounced seeing
that the Labor leader who was so crush-
ingly beaten in Queensland was the very
man who gs Premier of the State had asso-
ciated hinjself with these measures. The
Queensland people have had no opportunity
to pass jujgmefit upon the bills. They have,
however, had the opportunity to pass judg-
ment upon the leader who stood for them,
and two members out of a possible 13 seem
a verdict emphatic enough to put Ryan’s
measures out of the question until the people
have been directly appealed to regarding
them. A nominee Council has no right to
say no when the people’s House has said
yes. But when there is fairly conclusive
evidence that the people have either changed
their minds or were misunderstood in the
first place, it has the obvious duty cast upon
it of delaying the matter until the question
is put as directly as possible to the people.
The Maintenance of Law.
It was a very, very small pressure that the
Hughes Government put on the striking
marine engineers, after all. They had defied
the arbitration statutes which Australia
secured with so much toil. The Government
reasoned patiently with them while they -were
filling the country with poverty and misery,
and offered, them everything except that they
should be recognised as above tne law and
that the nation should make a complete sur-
render and eat dirt at their feet. Chal-
lenged to a contest, it might have forbidden
them the use of post and telegraph and tele-
phone services, including the money-order
department, banks, law courts and the rest
of its apparatus. It went no further than
laying a temporary embargo on any trifle of
funds their combine might have in the banks
and prohibiting the sending of money to
them. And straightway the strike crumbled.
But the power the Government exercised was
under the War Precautions Act, and that
is a temporary measure. The complete suc-
cess of the experiment ought to immedi-
ately send the Government seeking similar
power under a permanent measure. Either
that, or every law which professes to make
strikes illegal ought to be abolished. Whether
they ought to be made illegal or not is a
matter, of course, that is fairly arguable.
The Parliaments should decide. And they
should only decide in favor of making strikes
illegal—in favor of compulsory arbitration —
fully realising that every power Government
possesses will thereafter be used to main-
tain the law. At present there is wholesale
trifling with the law; and nothing could
more effectually undermine good citizenship
than that.
Inquest on the Corpse of a Capital.
Apparently the Canberra capital has slid
down from its pedestal and is now only a
mouldy grievance, like the wheat problem
or the state of Georgeson’s health, to be
inquired into by a royal commission. Accord-
ing to his Ex. at the opening of the Federal
Parliament: —• *
Now that the war is over steps will be taken
to further the plan for the establishment of the
Federal Capital. It is proposed to appoint a
commission to report on the stages to be followed
and the methods to be employed to develop the
resources
(Good old “develop the resources!”)
of the Federal Territory and reduce the financial
burden of the Commonwealth.
An ordinary city or town is looked upon as
an asset, a concern that pays taxes and
shows a profit, and develops its own re-
sources and helps to develop other places,
and makes the landlord rich if not
bloated. But Canberra is tacitly
accepted, even by ardent ’Berra-ites, as
a loss, a burden, a pauper and a thing to
be inquired into with a view to minimising
the disaster. There, is no luck about the
place, which is set on the top of an eminence
so that water will have to be pumped up
to it; which is without any minerals of
value; which is planted in a triangle bounded
by the three driest towns in the coastal or
tableland belt; which is without water-
power ; which is located on a sub-branch
of a branch line that has been losing money
for 32 yeays; which is in two barren coun-
ties that have been losing population for
at least 29 years; and which has its port
130 miles away, so that it is the only two-
piece capital in the world. In 1918 its 912
square miles had a population of 2% per
mile, much less than half the State’s average;
and the revenue, after a million pounds had
been spent on development, was £31,221 —
that is to say, the million pounds paid less
than interest and the 912 square miles
yielded nothing. The spot was selected for
its badness at the instigation of anti-
Federalists who wanted to bring the Com-
monwealth into derision by making its capi-
tal the prize mean metropolis of the world.
Now a royal commission is to sit on it as
if it were an I.W.W. crime or a suspected
lunatic.
♦
The Division of Australia.
One of the disastrous supporters who
infest every good cause publishes “The New
State Embracing Northern N. S. Wales.”
His idea is to draw a diagonal line from
a little south of Newcastle to Goodooga and
make his State an almost perfect triangle,
containing 65.000 square miles, so that it
will be thf smallest on the mainland, and
including, to start with. 460,000 people, so
that it will be the most densely peopled,
Victoria only excepted ; also to take about
315 miles of coast, leaving about 298 for
the part of the old State that .is to remain
to Sydney. (This is on the seaman’s
measurement from cape to cape and not fol-
lowing the intricacies of high-water mark.)
It is. however, proposed that the vast dry,
unprofitable, unpromising region behind the
fertile triangle shall remain to the Hd capi-
tal, to be schooled and bobbied and land-
agented by it and at its people’s expense.
Old New South Wales is to be as broad as
ever in the West dr dog country, but
mighty narrow and devoid of harbors on
the sea-front. Australia isn’t a land to be
cut up iti this fashion. A great part of
the interior —the riverless district of
Westralia and most of the Lake Eyre basin,
w'hich means perhaps half the continent —
should be a Federal territory supported in
the clieapest way by the common treasury.
It doesn t really need much except sundry
road and railway and telegraph repairers
and a few wandering long-distance police-
men to arrest the homicidal rabbit. There
might also be one inland State comprising
the lower Murray-Darling Valley. But
apart from that the partially-tamed desert
must be divided among the coastal States,
and they must tend to be long and thin —
thin where, they touch the coast and long
the other \j-ay. Australia qan’t have inland
States as the U.S. has fronting the great
fresh lakes or interior seas, for there are
none. It can’t plant nine or 10 AJiddle
States along a navigable 1 river that is
almost _an ocean in itself, for there is no
such river. If the new concern with its
capital at Armidale expects to extend down
the shore anything like as far as proposed,
there are a lot of sad places like Warren
and Nevertire and possibly Hungerford in
its share of Australia, though they don’t
appear on the map of “the new State.”
Russia’s Business Card.
When the cables first began to mention
the Bolsheviks The Bulletin obtained
from Peter Simon off, afterwards Bolshevik
Consul for Australia, an article explaining
what the movement stood for. Simonoff
was subsequently told that he must not
speak about the w r ar; disobeying, he ivas
sentenced to 12 months’ gaol. He served four
months, and then resumed his job as Consul-
General or, as he is called officially, repre-
sentative for “the Russian Socialist Federal
Soviet Government.” In these days Simonoff
is not concerned to talk about the Great
War or even the Russian Revolution.
Those are things of the past. His present
concern is to re-establish Russia as a peace-
ful, prosperous land, having ordinary trade
relations with the rest of the world: and
that is the ground on which Peter comes
into this column with the following state-
ment of what Russia is doing and wants
to do—a statement which throws light on
a lot of cabled news of the past few
weeks:—-
Through nationalisation of the entire foreign trade
my Government to-day is the greatest single buying
and selling concern the world ever witnessed. All
the foreign buying afld selling is done by the
Supreme Council of National Economy in Moscow
through its representatives in foreign countries.
The foreign trade of Russia in the year 1913
amounted to 1374 million roubles in imports and
1500 million roubles in exports, the bulk of Russian
trade going to Germany, Britain, Holland and
France.
Although Australia was also having Russian goods
and selling her goods to Russia, that was done by
medium of Germany and other countries trading
directly with Russia. Now, howeve*, there is excel-
lent opportunity for Australia to open trade relations
direct with Russia.
Many of Australian products will be wanted by
Russia, and there are products in Russia which are
indispensable for Australia.
My Government authorised its representative in
the United States of America to purchase goods
from that country alone amounting to more than
300,000,000 dollars, as follows: 150,000,000 for rail-
way materials; 30,000,000 for agricultural imple-
ments ; 10,000,000 for machinery and tools;
5,000,000 for hardware and metals; 30,000,000 for
boots and shoes; 20,000,000 for dry goods and
textiles; 5,000,000 for rubber, paper, etc. ;
25,000,000 for cotton; 25,000,000 for foodstuffs.
Russia has for export, amongst many other things,
432,000,0001 b. of flax and 216,000,000 of hemp, and
a great quantity of furs, bristles, hides, seeds,
platinum and unlimited quantities of lumber and
other raw- materials.
Realising that economic prosperity of the world
at large, including Soviet Russia and Australia,
depends on uninterrupted interchange of products
between various countries, my Government desires
to establish commercial relations with other coun-
tries, including Australia. The world cannot be
isolated in the way it has been isolated up to now.
Isolation of this kind is a boomerang in the final
account. It hurt my country badly in the past.
It is hurting her still; but it is hurting now more
the other countries, aftd especially those which
initiated that isolation, mainly France and Britain.
One of the most marked result? of it is, perhaps,
the headlong dropping of the rate of exchange of
the sovereign, which is badly hurting Australia at
present.
My Government does not ask for credits. It is
prepared to pay for everything Cash on delivery, or
exchange of goods direct. To meet the balance
against my country, if there will be such, my Govern-
ment placed in a bank at the disposal of its represen-
tative in the United States of America 200,000,000
dollars in gold. As my Government will deal with
every country through its representatives and in
exchange medium of every particular country, the
abnormal fluctuations in the exchange rate will not
present any obstacle to trading with my country.
Facilities for shipping goods to Russia and from
Russia can easily be obtained. Russia herself has
many large vessels which are now tied up in Rus-
sian ports, but which will, of course, be available
as soon as relations are established.
What is necessary at present is to have legalised
the trading between my country and others, in-
cluding Australia. My country is prepared to open
relations immediately. It depends now entirely on
the people and Governments of other countries, Aus-
tralia included.
The sooner the world resumes trade rela-
tions with Russia the better—trade, at any
rate, in non-warlike material. Germany
has done so already, so far as it is able
to; and the less foothold the Hun gets in
Russia the better for the world’s peace.
Apart from that consideration, however, the
blockade of Russia simply means the con-
tinuance of unrest and disorder, and all
parties seem to have had enough of that,
the Bolsheviks included. If Russia wants
the Soviet form of government it is no
business of ours, any more than it is any
business of Russia’s that we prefer our
present system of democratic government.
We must have a better reason than that
for keeping t l ’" rm-n-antine.
■ ♦
u,.u judges.
Dear Bulletin.—G. B. Shaw has called
the medical profession a conspiracy. May
I add that all professions are conspiracies?
This includes my own. I am now concerned
only with revealing to the public in strict
confidence how the legal conspiracy works in
the appointments of lawyers as Judges in
Australia. As soon as some individuals
amongst the members of the Bar secure a
large practice for themselves, and take away
briefs from other members, there arises a
feeljng at the Bar that the sooner these com-
petitors foi? are removed the better
it will be fpr the other members of the Bar.
They want to get the briefs he is vetting.
Hence the Bar always supports the sugges-
tion. that rqore Judges are required, and the
best Judges, according to the notions of the
Bar, are barristers who are mopping up
most of the briefs. The public and the press
innocently accept from these legal conspira-
tors the opinion of the Bjar, especially when
there is a Vacancy on tl|e bench, that Mr.
So-and-Sp is the best man to appoint as a
Judge because he is a “brilliant advocatq” or
“a profound constitutional lawyer” or some-
thing such. The legal profession is not so
mucfi interested in getting good Judge? as
in setting more briefs. The public and the
press and the Cabinets which make the
appointments are misled by the interested
barristers vfho want to clear away from the
Bar someone who is getting briefs they want,
distributed amongst themselves. It is not
borne out by experience tjlat “brilliant advo-
cates” make good Judges. The qualities
which so t to make a good advocate are not
the qualities which make a good Judge. Some
men can be both good in advocacy and good
in the equitable determination of conflicting
claims, but not equally good at both. The
practice of getting a living by making the
worse appear the better cause is not conducive
to the worship of what is true, or the deter-
mination of what is just. It is camouflage
and deceit. “A brilliant advocate” is a fine-
saunding term. So also is “a profound con-
stitutional lawyer.” This latter term is
about as clear and preeifee as “the British
Constitution.” Nobody knows what is the
British Constitution. There are, however, a
few Acts of Parliament setting out the Aus-
tralian Constitution, and a knowledge of
these and of what a few Judges have said-
about them is the emptiest sort of claim to
profundity in reason that ever was made bv
any class in society. Compared with the
profundity of learning in modern science, the
“nrofoundnqss” of the lawyer in our Federal
Courts is on a par with the profound science
of the modern pug. in a boxing contest. The
best Judges on the bench for the public
have not been brilliant advocates, have in
many, instances not been even in very large
practice at the Bar. and have not
pretended to be profound in anything.
The legal profession wall not " admit
this; but then, the legal profession is
a conspiracy, and conspirators will not
confess the truth. The first qualification for
a Judge is honesty. A large practice in mak-
ing the worge appear the better cause is no*
a sign of honesty, any more than the prac-
tice of telling lies is a sigti of a high regard
for truth. It is not the pumber of briefs a
lawyer has accepted, but. on the contrary, the
number he has refused because lie could not
assist injustice, crime and wrongdoing that
marks a fitness for the bench. A capacity
for touting for business or promotion, selfish-
ness and money-grabbing are the worst quali-
fications. while unselfishness and contemnt
for money most decidedly are very h’gh quali-
fications. Independence in a Judge is
another requisite. So political nominees are
bad appointments. and so are the hangers-on
and members of the bureaucratic sets in
Australian States, the official families and
the pupnets of politicians and the press. It
is remarkable how families get judgeships in
Australia. This is also noticeable in Eng-
land. It is time that the public recon-
sidered wbat it has heretofore looked lin'dn
as. good oualjfications in a lawyer for a judge-
ship. The jud'C’al bench wont.s strengthen-
ing. not so much in “profundity” as in moral-
ity and independence.—Yours, A Lawyer.
,—+.
The Abolition of Lying and Other Things
at Elections.
The fact that the X. S. Wales State
election is something like a record for dull
innuendo, reckless mendacity and barren
abuse is only in the natural order of things.
As a rule, matters that are bad tend to grow'
steadily w'orse till a sudden and violent
revulsion of feeling sets in and strenuous
deeds are done all at oqce in the wmy of
reform. The narrative of the Deluge is
probably symbolical, signifying that 2000
years after Creation the people grew suddenly
mad at the politics of their time and had a
general wash-up. In the present fish-fag
controversy the Storey-Dooley party is the
worst, though that doesn’t signify so much
as might appear. There is a difference
between the man who has been steadied
(however unsteady he may look) by ten
years of office and responsibility (no matter
though he may still seem rather irrespon-
sible) and the one who has had only ten
years of contumely. Holman was put at
the top of the party, when there were plenty
to choose from, because he was considered
its best member. Storey did not even have
a portfolio; and because he is as mentally
ill-furnished as the party then thought, his
campaign is a vast weariness. With him
everything is a “scandal” either because it
was done or because it wasn’t done. The
Teesdale Smith “scandal” and the Aitken
“scandal” and the Georgeson “scandal”
and the Hall “scandal.” to say nothing of
the Brown, Jones, Robinson, Simpson.
Briggs, Jobson and Higgins “scandals,”
and the rumors about Snooks and the
things that were seen through Binks’s
window or heard through Maloney’s key-
hole, are Storey’s stock-in-trade. Of wise
criticism about the Government’s big follies
and extravagances, which are the matters
that really affect the community, there is
none, for Storey apparently can’t recognise
a big mistake when he sees it; and, anyhow',
he intends to be worse himself if the chance
comes his way. If a cathedral was threaten-
ing to drop through neglect the member for
Balmain would probably be too busy looking
for dead rats in the basement and blaming
his opponents for them to observe that the
fane w r as falling on his head. The atmos-
phere created by all this is partly suggestive
of the nasty-minded Small boy and partly
1 reminiscent of Mrs. Snagsby when her
worst suspicions were aroused but not
corroborated. The other party can't retaliate
in kind bv exposing what Mr. Store?
done, for Mr. Storey doesn’t seem to La.
dope, anything at all, but it joins gaily in


T 1!? Farmers' & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A ustralia
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL ---£ 100,000.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back lo Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
Limited
the fray, and while defending, itself from
all responsibility for the deceased rodent
in the basement it diverts attention from
more important matters. There is urgent
need for a Court or a series of Courts to
sit continuously during election campaigns
and do things that will clear the atmosphere
of this irrelevant , cat-chorus. Any elector
should be authorised to haul any candidate
before this Court and call on him for proof
of his aspersions and insinuations, and if he
couldn’t supply it he should be notified by
the Judge that that insinuation or aspersion
was banned under a heavy penalty for the
rest of the campaign. The same system
should apply when a mere State politician
seeks votes under false pretences by promis-
ing to do things which are not in the State
jurisdiction and consequently are beyond
bis power—the confiscation of banks or
insurance concerns, issue of notes and the
like. In fact, the Court might act in quite
a number of ways, with the result that
when the campaign was just about the
middle half the candidates wouldn’t have a
speech left' and the other half would have
retired.
A Minister for Sure Things.
The public knowledge that a Minister of the
Crown could go out any day to “the ponies”
and make a Government clerk’s annual
salary should have led to something better
: ban his resignation. A man like that should
have been nationalised, appointed Chief
Punter to the community, paid a big salary
and employed to fill the depleted Treasury
from the bags of the bookmakers. But,
apart from the opportunity thus lost, the
State misses so many chances of filling the
public nocket from ventures out of which
it has the power to take away all the specu-
lative element that it seems high time to
erect a Department of Sure Things with
a responsible Minister. A new public work
is promised, and while it is yet a vague
thing of deputations and Ministerial evasions
some shrewd person sidles in and buys all
the land thereabout. Only the Government
can know what is going to happen ; and it
is in its power to create the boom at the
right moment and rake in the shekels which
otherwise go to Private Enterprise. The
semi-knowledge or ingenious guess that
Hornsby railway station is too restricted
for the terminal- business of the big traffic
of Sydney’s northern suburbs has made a
boom in the land at Asquith, a mile or so
further on. Five years ago the N. S. Wales
Government could have bought all Asquith
for the price of a few inches of George-
street; but by the time its railway-extension
scheme, if there is one, gets into its stride,
the opportunity of doing anything will have
gone. > As the key of the whole business of
inflating the local land values was in the
Government’s hands from the first, a Min-
ister for Sure Things would have acquired
the block; and then, by getting his colleagues
to push the railway extensions ahead, he
could have made a number of profit-
able sales and put the results into the pub-
lic’s other pocket. There is practically no
end to such non-speculative speculations. At
half a dozen spots on the coast of N. S.
Wales alone cities could be created bv a
Cabinet decision, and the Minister for Sure
Things could rake in as much from the sale
of desirable sections of the first subdivision
as would pay for making railways and har-
bor facilities. It is almost incredible that
any Government can be blind to such things;
but then a Government that would let its
luckiest Minister fall overboard merely be-
cause he backed the right ponies and had
a large ear for the straight tip is blind
enough for anything.
“Yal,” writing from Calcutta, tells the Aus-
tralian farmer what.it means to be in the
hands of the "foreigner manufacturer :—-
Lately Australians have been wondering- why they
have had to pay 2s. or so for a common sack
which at one time cost them sd. It is not because
the jute crop is small in Bengal,' where practically
all the jute in the world is produced, nor is it
because the Indian native agriculturist is becoming
a bloated capitalist. He still earns about 20 rupees
per month. Nor is it the jute dealer who is causing
the skyrocket prices. He has stocks that he cannot
sell. It is the jute manufacturers who are the
cormorants—the men who run the 48 mills of
Bengal. These cos., which before the war were
glad to make 71 and 10 p.c., now frequently water
their stock and declare dividends of 300 to 500
p.c. The gentle natives, protected by a paternal
British administration, own the majority of the
shares. The shows have huge stocks of raw material,
and the crop is not likely to worry them for some
time. If the agriculturist cares to sell his product
cheaply, then the mills will buy, and not otherwise.
The Australian is in the hollow of the hand of
these rrmacious profiteers, for they know well that
be must buy and that this is his only market.
♦
P.X.”: For the exalted ideas which the
U.S.A. has about its share in the war we
are partly to blame; and I write as one
who helped to pull the great loose leg of
America. Things were desperate in France
and Belgium in 1917 and early 1918, and
two things had to he done outside the actual
line: (1) polyglot America, which wasn’t
nearly as much pro-Ally as we had to make
it believe, had to be “enthused,” for the sake
of the material as well as the men it might
supply; (2) the German civil as well as
military population had to be “rattled.”
Hence the States were over-run by British,
French and other military and civil emis-
saries who laid the butter on Uncle Sam
thick—told him how everything depended
upon him and, later on, how magnificently
he was doing his part to “make the world
safe for democracy,” and so on. It is all
very well to talk of American skite; but
British and French —yes, and Australians,
carefully instructed beforehand —joined in
the chorus, and often actually led it, with
the knowledge that the hallelujahs would be
wafted across to Germany. And it is cer-
tain that they were, and that Germany was
badly rattled in consequence, while the
Allies were correspondingly heartened. We
have had to pay for it since; but it seemed
the only policy at the time, and there is
still no reason to believe that it wasn’t
what it seemed.
Ma State politics become very like the
argument in the weatherboard pub at
Blanky Plains. The man who seems to have
slept in his clothes says, apropos of nothing,
that he once jumped over' a hurdle 10ft. high,
and the man who has just been refused credit
for a beer bets £lOOO that he couldn’t jump
THE ARREST.
“Gaol for the profiteer.” —John Storey.
THE JOHN : “The house has been burgled, but that fellow’s not on my beat, so I'll take
you along on general principles.”
6ft. and offers to put the money up. Then
the half-awake man with a thirst in a cornet-
says he'll blinkin’ well jump two fathoms
himself for half the price. In the heat of
the election fight Premier Holman, who has
2,000,000 people and 309.000 square miles of
territory and 4560 miles of railway and
£160,000,000 of debt to look after, says that
Storey, who wants his billet, went to the
races in a State motor-car. And Storey, in
a heated mood, feeling that his grand-
mother’s honor is at stake and that aspersion
has been cast on the pedigree of his dog,
bets £5O that he didn’t. Apparently no
money has been put up. Now, even if Storey
did go to the races in a car, or go to the dog-
fight in a cab, or go to the two-up school in
disguise, or go to Heaven in a fiery chariot,
what has that to do with either him or Hol-
man having charge of £24,000,000 per annum
revenue and £12,000,000 per annum loan
money for the next three years? And what
bearing has it on the fact that 2852 miles
and 59 chains of N. S. Wales railway are
being run at a ghastly loss, and that more
than one-third of the country municipalities
are losing population, both these things hap-
pening under a system which neither Hol-
man nor Storey proposes to alter?
Vital statistics for Broken Hill add
force to the demand that the State shall
insist upon the parties to industrial disputes
going to arbitration, if the trouble can’t be
settled around a table. During the six
months of the strike period ended December
31, 1919, there were 50 more deaths in the
Barrier town than for the six months ended
December 31, 1918, when the mines were in
full work. There was no epidemic of any
sort in the latter half of last year; the
excessive death-rate was apparently caused
simply by the reduced rations on which a
miserable existence has been dragged out
over 10 months, not so much by the strikers
as by their wives and children, and the
dependants of 4000 other unionists who
have been denied their right to work by the
dominant A.M.A., to say nothing of scores
of widows who lived by washing and
charing, and scores of small shopkeepers
who have been absolutely ruined. Medical
men have stated that the privations due
to the strike have been particularly severe on
expectant mothers, which leads one to the
belief that the frequent strikes in this centre
of industrial revolution may have much to
do with the fact that Broken Hill has about
the highest infantile mortality rate for any
city on the mainland.
The plain reason why the repudiation
of the public debt is not yet publicly advo-
cated is that it is still possible to borrow
enough to cover the interest and leave a
surplus to razzle with. Thus in the four
years 1911-12-13-14 the State Governments
raised £59.975,128 of new debt and paid
back £41,436,459 in interest. That left
over £18,500,000 for a blow-out. In the
next four years, 1915-16-17-18, the States
borrowed £74,941,373 and paid back as
interest £55,806,610. That left a little over
£19,100,000 for the blow-out. So the
amount left to spend didn’t alter much, but
as the interest bill swells up it takes a
heap of borrowing to keep a balance for-
spending purposes. If the pace is main-
tained, and allowing not only for new
loans but for renewal of old loans at in-
creased rates, the States’ interest bill is
likely to be £22,000,000 for the single year
1924. If the States can borrow £22,000,001
the repudiationists will be content to wait a
little longer. If they can borrow only
£21,999,999 then the time will be ripe for
some people to openly advocate repudiation.
The party which talked repudiation at the
Perth. Conference of 1916 doubtless had its
prematureness explained to it on this basis,
so it subsided.
Mrs. Malaprop has her own ideas about
some of Melbourne’s public institutions. The
observant lady recently addressed a letter
of inquiry to “The Matron of the Affec-
tionate Diseases Hospital.”
“Floreat Etona” : “Cadet O.” says (B.
12/2/’2O) that the kind-hearted Defence
Department altered the time of starting mili-
tary drills from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. so that
the lads would not have to drill in the hot-
test hours of the day. But Saturday drills
are still timed for 2 p.m.: it is only the
working-day parades that are timed for -1
p.m. A little thing like that convinces the
majority of cadets that this arrangement
was fixed up to relieve the employers of their
obligations and throw practically all the
drilling into the cadets’ own time.
“R.S.V.P.”: Melbourne’s retail dairymen,
in putting up the price of milk, complain
of being at their wits’ end to obtain sup-
plies, One bowls that he is 1000 and
another that he is 500 quarts short. Yet
somehow no outcry whatever has been heard
from the missus because she hasn’t got her
daily requirement. The fact is she does
get it, or something that looks like it. Even
in these parched times the man will go our.
with 90 quarts, deliver 100 and come back
with 10—if he doesn’t sell the 10 to a pal
on the way and put the cash into liis beer-
fund. Some day somebody will market a
ninepenny milk-tester for the housewife, and
then the quart of milk will be a quart of
milk much oftener than it is now.
“Flinders”: The most interesting feature
of the recent quarrel in Perth over gun-
salutes was the arrival of Lieut.-Gov. Stone
into the controversy. The Government had
announced that 17 unpleasant noises would
be made when the new Governor arrived
(on the Sabbath too!). The K.S.A. pro-
tested that a score or more of shell-shocked
soldiers in Perth would be seriously affected
by the foolery. Getting no satisfaction, they
sent on their objection to tlnf Defence pan-
jandrums in Melbourne. A reply was
received that, while it was impossible to
affront the new cocked-hat by omitting the
bangs, the guns would be made to roar as
gently as any sucking dove. It was then
that the old Chief Justice came into the
argument. He pointed out that Xewdegate
was not entitled to any tumult until he
(Stone) had formally abdicated his job of
administrator, and this could not take place
until the following day, when the Executive
Council was to meet. That knocked out the
Sunday circus. But the reprieve was only
temporary: on Monday a squad of able-
bodied military citizens with a brass-hat in
charge dragged out a piece of artillery and
made 17 distinct, loud and futile noises.
“P. Juggler”: A staff sergeant-major
went away to the war as an n.c.0., gained
his commission on Gallipoli, his majority
in Palestine, and incidentally annexed the
D.S.O. and M.C. He ended up as a brigade-
majpr and is now back again to sergeant-
major. This is not an isolated case. In the
same regiment were two cadets from Duu-
troon—officers, of course. They were to
the man cited above as John Hop is to
Sherlock Holmes. But they go gaily on as
officers, while the other fills in notices to
prosecute youngsters for non-attendance at
drills, and enjoys himself on Saturdays by
dancing about at the beck and call of a
spectacled youth who licks stamps and
cleans out an office five days a week and
struts around under two gilt stars on the
sixth. By all means let Duntroou continue.
But the present A. and I. Staff could be
wholly manned by those with a first-hand
knowledge of war, who have shown by the
promotions they gained on active service—
the onlv nroper test of a soldier —that they
are well fitted for the highly-paid jobs now
being filled by inefficients and octogenarians
who have friends at court.
“Rio” : Australians are rather in the habit
of getting amusement from non-Australians'
ignorance of some of the main features of
our geography; but many of the wrong ideas
prevalent in the outsiders’ mind are pro-
bably due to the incorrect or ambiguous geo-
graphical terminology of our parochial
papers. For . instance, when the S. M.
Herald refers to the “South Coast” the
English or American reader (poor ignorant
blighter!) assumes that the South coast of
Australia is indicated, when intuition should
teach him that part of the east coast that
happens to be south of the city of Sydney
is meant. Again, when the Telegraph
speaks of the “Northern rivers,” the be-
nighted outlander envisages the streams of
North Queensland or the Territory, never in
his ignorance imagining that the correct
guess is a small group of eastern rivers 150
to 500 miles north of the D.T. office. “The
West” to the Sun is somewhere about
Bathurst. Age and Argus are the same with
their “North-East” and “Western District.”
Why can’t all such indefinite and misleading
nomenclature be dropped and good Aus-
tralian names similar to Wimmera, Monaro,
Illawarra, etc., substituted?


Empire Defence and the Safety of Australia.
Mr. Amery, Undersecretary for the
Colonies, in giving an outline of the naval
defence proposals for the Empire, stated that
it had been decided to adopt “a new system,
consisting of a defensive chain, of which
each link will be primarily equipped to sus-
tain its own defence
Naval Defence is, to Australia, of grave importance, and calls
for preparedness with ships of war, guns and munitions,
Australia cannot risk her safety by dependence upon others
to supply her needs in these directions. The facilities for
their manufacture in case of necessity must be established
here. This makes essential the development, on a sound
basis, of the
Australian Iron
\
and Steel Industry
apart altogether from the economic aspect of the question.
[2
POLITICAL
POINTS
Gilruth, for a time the Pooh-Bah of the
Northern Territory, stated at the inquiry
before Judge Ewing that there had been
mention of “selling” the great Federal pro-
perty to Private Enterprise for £5,000,000.
Yet it is a far more payable property than
the Western Division of N. S. Wales or the
northern half of South Aus., and no one
talks of “selling” them. The completion of
the railway from Adelaide was one of the
terms on which the Territory was handed
over to the Commonwealth. It was part of
the price of half a million square miles of
land, and the price hasn’t been paid. W’hen
the line is finished the Northern Territory
capital will be about four days’ run from
the nearest capital in the South, and will
be more distinctively a part of the Com-
monwealth- than Westralia is. The Terri-
tory requires representation, even if it be
of the smallest sort, in the Federal Parlia-
ment. But it wants the railway far more.
When that goes through any man who
talks of selling Darwin and the attached
lands to a syndicate will be regarded as
madder than the one who talks of selliug
Perth to a nigger.
The man in the crowd who called for
“Three cheers for Jewseph Ward” has a rival.
At a Tory jag the other day, one old
shellback demanded “Three cheers for the
Mossy Government.”
BILL MASSEY, still Prime Minister of
Maoriland.
The Labor'Party made its poorest show-
ing since 1903 when the Federal Parliament
met. It reached the top in 1934 and the
ball was at its feet. Then it drifted into
the control of wild-eyed “internationals.”
who were often pro-lluns in disguise, and
not only in numbers but in brains and
influence it is only a shadow of its old self.
Ryan, the false alarm, wasn’t offered either
the leadership or the deputy-leadership, so
the man who was a general up north is now
full private in a tattered army down south.
Only one State Labor Government (that
of Queensland) survives, and with an
honest electoral roll it, too, might have died
in 1918. On the Federal roll, which it can’t
fake, it holds two seats out of 10. Some
day the great Reformer will arise to restore
the party to its old power; but he is not
showing above the horizon yet. In the old
days scorn was poured upon the sycophant
wlio grovelled to royalty. There has been
a new sycophancy, and it will have to be
scotched and the truth told before the
party can deserve well of the country
again.
From the Federal Gallery:—
The Federal Labor party hasn’t at time of writing
appointed a deputy-leader in succession to Higgs, but
Ryan will step into the vacancy if the invitation is
sufficiently cordial. Since the elections Tomjo has
lost much of his air of Napoleonic omnipotence, and
wears an appearance of great thought as if he were
about to retire to a monastery to write his
memoirs. In the House he assumes the meek role
of a novice in the back corner seat once occupied
by another diminished actor who was sometimes
Howe and at other times Anyhow.
Pending the transfer of all power in indus-
trial matters to the Commonwealth —and
that involves an amendment of the Consti-
tution —the best thing might be to throw
back on the States
all industrial work
excepting only inter-
state maritime affairs,
the regulation of which
appears about the only
thing very clearly
within the scope of the
Federal Constitution.
The months occupied
by the Federal Court
in hearing the cases of
the engine-drivers and
other craft unions,
concluded ingloriously
by Higgins, J., inde-
finitely postponing
judgment, has im-
mensely assisted the
anti- arbitrationists.
Particularly is this so
in Broken Hill, where
a definite split between
most of the unions on
the one side and the
A.M.A. on the other
took place on this
very question. To-
day the Direct
Actionists are crowing
and the craft niofls
are wondering w lether
they were right in
going to the Federal
Court, after aIL
DR. GILRUTH,
late Administrator
Northern Territory.
The sack of Odessa apparently represent-
ed Direct Action at its best. Odessa is a
seaport city about the same size as Sydney.
It has the rather mixed and dubious popu-
lation that is usually to be found at a big
port—more mixed than that of Sydney,
because it is on the Black Sea where several
nations meet, and also because the war
had filled it with refugees.. Possibly the
intentions of the recognised leaders of the
revolution —Juddsky and Brookfieldoff and
Gardeuovitch —weren’t bad. But the pushes
and criminals and cranks rose in the rear of
the defenders to get the first chance at the
p’under and the women, and there was
burning and slaying and rape from Balmain
and Five Dock to Waterloo and Waverley.
Whoever wasn’t busy killing was under
susnic’on as a counter-revolutionary and
liable to be killed, till at last it became a
matter of turning machine-guns promis-
cuously on mobs of women and children
and running amok. Juddsky and Brook-
fieldoff were anxious to restore order in the
background, but when there is chaos in
every street worth looting and the telegraphs
and telephone are broken the voice of one
crying for moderation takes some time to
be heard.
Though the marine engineers’ strike has
come to an end it is to be hoped that that
will make no difference to the scheme where-
by the Engineers’ Institute was to buy up
and run the Burns-Philp island fleet. If not
Burns-Philp’s, then some other. The scheme
is in no way dependent on the strike or on
Burns-Philp. The idea is to show how, in
the opinion of the unions, a ship or a fleet
ought to be run ; and the world badly wants
that information. At present there is, more-
over, a quarrel which goes to the very root
of economics, as to the proper division of
net revenue. Direction or management
claims a large share, and labor says it
doesn’t earn anything like so much. ‘ The
best if not the only way for unions to satisfy
themselves about it is to put the thing to the
test.
The Federal Speakership was dangled
under the nose of the Country Party, but
: Haywhiskers declined to sap his voting
strength in the Reps. As a matter of fact,
a Country Speaker would have made the
Government safe in the remote possibility
of Cocky combining with Labor, but now
1 Hughes can hold his billet only by kind
permission of the rural corner. Those
most disappointed at the turn of events are
probably McWilliams and the Labor squad.
McWilliams was the Hayseed proposed for
the Chair, and Labor-would have voted for
him unanimously just to show its dis-
approval of the unpopular Johnson.
The Repat. has altered its regulations to
rectify a manifest unfairness. While the man
who was prepared to hang back and pick his
employment might draw sustenance inde-
finitely, the Digger who butted into work
straight away, only to find the employment
unsatisfactory, or too heavy, or ephemeral,
was likely to find himself classified as
“repatriated,” and denied any sustenance
when he applied to the Department. Under
the new rules any ex-soldier who has not
had employment totalling six months in all
since his return is entitled to unemployment
sustenance, and, inferentially, the barnacle
will not be allowed to hang on for a longer
period. The new system is a fairer one;
but it would be altogether better if the
Department, instead of merely juggling with
existing jobs, mostly unproductive, set out
to establish new industries. The Common-
wealth can much better afford to pay its ex-
soldiers a decent living wage while it trains
them in new industries. w r hich would help
it to cut out imports, than to throw away
a weekly dole which, if it trains them at
all, trains them only to loaf.
People who have been moving among the
new Senators groan in their anguish. “If
these,” they say, “represent the highest poli-
tical intelligence of Australia, God help it!”
But, of course, these Senators don’t repre-
sent anything of the sort. Unless there is
some system of proportional representation
the crowd which at the moment has the
best battle-cry sweens the Senate poll.
Statesmanship doesn’t count; Service
doesn’t count. The good man knows that
there is, therefore, no continuity about the
Senator’s job; and he will not touch it. He
can’t become known personally to one-tenth
of the electors in the biggest of the States;
and he soon realises that his chance of re-
election doesn’t depend very much upon any-
thing he may do or leave undone. In many
cases he. therefore, does nothing except vote
obediently, so as to keep the party nomina-
tion. He doesn’t seriously try to add any-
thing to the wisdom of Parliament. It all
amounts to another reason for the subdivi-
sion of the present cumbersome States. States
the size of Tasmania mignt know their Sena-
tors. Those the size of N. S. Wales haven’t
got a hope.
“Leo Lear”: Lately while I was waiting
on the Hamilton (Vic.) railway station a
train-load of refrigerated trucks went
through bound for Portland. I thought that,
at last, the Big City barrackers were going
to allow something to be shipped direct from
the best harbor in Vic. But no; the trucks
were empties to cart frozen mutton from the
Portland freezing works (two miles from
the deep-water pier) all the way to Mel-
bourne for sea carriage to Europe! Vic.
railways are suffering from a truck shortage,
and can you wonder at it?
Forestry in N. S. Wales furnishes another
illustration of the folly of keeping adminis-
tration in the hands of party politicians
whose eye is always on votes. Ashford
passed an excellent Forestry Act in 191(5;
but promptly the millers and other inter-
ested persons got to work and interviewed
politicians, and the politicians had a word
with Holman, and in the end the future was
sacrificed to the present, as it was in the
days before the excellent Act was passed.
Incidentally, the third Commissronershio has
never been filled, the idea evidently being
to keep the job (£lOOO a year) available for
some political exigency.
Hughes’s pose as “the Diggers’ friend”
makes a fine lot of work for the Circum-
locution Office. The little man has told them
he’ll redress their grievances or know the
reason why. Thousands take him at his
word. A clerk forwards about 70 per cent, of
the complaints on to the State Premiers, who
swear and pass the letters on to an officer,
who sends them to the settlement branches.
Letters come back from those branches ex-
plaining that the facts are such and such, and
that the Digger has already been informed.
With covering letters and more cusses the
replies are despatched to Hughes, who
doesn’t see them, for he hasn’t time, but
his deputy posts the bundle of papers to
the complainant. Still, it’s not Hughes’s
fault. Under our system the Minister who
is merely a great administrator isn’t half as
valuable to his party as the Minister who is
a great humbug.
Viscount Bryce, ex-Minister, ex-Ambassa-
dor, doctor of 10 or 12 Universities, lawyer
and voluminous writer, who is much more
of a historian than a viscount, gives it as
his verdict that the Mohammedan world in
general doesn’t regard Constantinople as a
sacred city or as the Moslem headquarters,
nor does it consider that the Tartar who
wallows there is a genuine caliph. In fact,
the Mohammedan world, with its eyes fixed
on the sacred cities of Mecca and Medina,
wouldn’t mind much if the Tartar at Con-
stantinople was boiled in sherbet or fried in
bacKsheesh. But Lloyd George and the
French Government are too sick and tired
of trouble to chance it. They probably agree
THE CULPRIT.
IRATE CUSTOMER : “Damn it all, you have
increased your prices 50 per cent, since
last week!"
THE WAITER : “I’m afraid I’m to blame, (if
I've had my wages increased five
shillings.”
that the Sultan has no merits and that
Europe would be sweeter without the Turk
in Constantinople; but they won’t give the
Indian sedition-monger the stick ne is always
looking for to beat the European dog with.
So, on present appearances, the dreadful
Turk stays.
Sydney Hospital dropped another £22,07.5
into debt last year, and that brought its
accumulated deficiency to £70,299. This is
a great loan land all right: it even feeds
its sick people on lOU’s.
Supposing the outcome of the N. S. Wales
wheat trials to be that John Storey’s worst
hopes are realised, a great many people,
including himself, will consider it evidence
that John is just the kind of Premier
required and the only one possible. But it
won’t be anything of the sort. The ideal
Premier may be a lot of things; but he cer-
tainly must be a great deal more than a
detective 'or a bloodhound or a raven who
gathers up unconsidered trifles and is full of
dark suspicions.
Legislation to . regulate flying is being
“thought out” by Lawson. It is about time.
A spectator was lately killed at. Geelong
racecourse while watching aerial stunts, and
the coroner, while recording “accidental
death” as his finding, added a rider to spur
on the Government. Obviously it is a
shocking waste of time and money for six
separate States to get to work on six
separate sets of aerial navigation laws; and
when the job is done, if it ever is done, it
will be ridiculous to expect an airman to
commit the six sets to memory. Also the
Vic. authority will have some difficulty in
pursuing a law-breaker into N. S. Wales
or S. Aus. Still these absurdities are all
contemplated, and don’t seem avoidable
until control of this subject is formally
handed over to the Commonwealth.
Holman at Granville, talking about the
futility of Direct Action, said that the
Broken Hill strike had resulted in a loss of
£828,000. The figure is very wide of the
mark. There are usually over 7000 men
employed along the line of lode, and the
weekly wages bill is about £30,000. The
men have been out 40 weeks, and the wages
for that period would have been roughly
£1.200,000. A few men have been working
all through on maintenance and repair jobs,
but the lost total can be safely set down in
round figures as a million. And then there
are the idle railway employees, timber
workers, Port Pirie and Itisden smeltermen,
seamen and wharf-laborers who depend on
the big Barrier industry for their living. A
loss in wages of a couple of millions would
not be an outside estimate.
Hope having told a flattering anecdote
about vast iron deposits on the northern
coast of Westralia. the local mendicants
were quick off the mark with a reouest for
a Federal railway across the continent to
cost perhaps £20.000,000 of high-priced loan
money. Westralia has got one railway
already which doesn’t pay expenses, though
the Commonwealth does, and it has secured
a subsidy of some millions at the cost of
its less golden neighbors, and it taxes itself
less per head than any other State, so the
huge auriferous beggar has been somewhat
spoiled. Nations don’t build railways across
dry continents to carry iron ore to coal or
coal to iron ore. That’s a job for ships
when there’s a waterway around, as there
mostly is.
MATTERS FOR MENTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Hughes will refer to the projected visit of
the Prince of Wales The Government’s intentions
with regard to the tariff will be indicated... .Mr.
Hughes will refer to policy in relation to general
economy and loans.”
He may discourse of many things,
Of this and that and those,
Of cabbages and corns and kings,
And crabs and Sunday clo’es;
And, though he may, perhaps, omit
Some matters of contention,
He will, if he considers fit,
Of the need for a strong Freetectionist
tariff make a casual mention.
Of anarchists and Bolshevists
He’s certain to orate;
If this temptation he resists
Amazement he’ll create.
Retrenchment and economy
In most emphatic tones
He’ll mention, and thereafter he
Will have a few well-chosen remarks to
make on the great and absorbing
subject of LOANS 1
VICTORIA.
GLEN.


THE PHILANTHROPIST.
"Sir Auckland Geddes, President of the Board of Trade, speaking in the House of Commons regarding the fabulous profits made by the Coats' thread monopoly, said it was not desirable to curtail companies in making profits overseas, as they were a factor
in maintaining the flow of raw material towards Great Britain."
BULL" "Here, I Say, that's a bit rough-taking down a kid!"
FAGIN" "It'th good for 'im, it'th good for 'im, It makes 'im work to get more; and work's good for boys."


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered <J3HAS
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms —
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of —
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and file following Alloys and Metallic Products —
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Rearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
H. L. SHACKELL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN I'RIARS, E C. 2
A. .T. SMTTH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. IvIRK (AgerA).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOK MAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE, S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ELECTRIC STEEL
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
We make a Feature of Specially Heat-treated Steel Castings for Ore
Crusher and Rock Breaker Parts. Battery and Mill Liners. Stamper
Shoes and Dies, Cams, Heads, Tappets, Ring Dies. Tramway Tyres.
Toughened Steel Truck Wheels. We can supply any quality hitherto
imported.
ALL stages of manufacture under modern scientific control.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
Telegraphic Address: “Electric Steel.” ALEXANDRIA. SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The exchange crisis and the protracted
unsettlement of affairs in Europe are making
trouble in the U.S.A. The New York
Chamber of Commerce, the most powerful
body of the sort in the Republic, lately
adopted a long resolution on the subject.
After the American plan, this resolution
states the position and summarises the
arguments besides setting out the conclusion
arrived at. The U.S.A. went into the war,
it premises, to end war:—
We were as a people insistent in our demands that
a post-bellum programme should be adopted by the
free nations of the world that would make a
repetition of the horrors of 1914-18 impossible.
The Peace delegates at Versailles undertook to meet
this demand. When we made the demand it is prob-
able that few of us realised what the demand
involved. It necessarily involves some sacrifice of
long-cherished■ precedents and practices .
The U.S.A., having demanded something
without realising the consequences, its
Senate now "hesitates, debates, delays”;
and —
Unless the parties to the controversy make con-
cessions we shall soon stand before the world self-
indicted as governmentally incompetent.
Well, that doesn’t put it very strongly. The
plain facts are that the. U.S.A. permitted its
1- resident, to leave that country as its repre-
sentative, to stand before the world as its
spokesman, to deal with the other nations at
Versailles, to use the enormous power of
the U.S.A. to extract concessions ; it watched
its President get what he could in Paris, and
when he did not get what suited the Senate,
then and not till then that body repudiated
him. The New York Chamber of Commerce
says the parties to the controversy should
make concessions. It ought to be told by
the other Chambers of Commerce of the
world that the principal should stand by his
agent. The Peace Treaty, with the League
of Nations covenant attached, pleased
France and Britain no more than it pleased
the U.S.A. At any rate, France and Britain
gave away most at the dictation of the
U.S.A. Yet neither France nor Britain
would have dreamed it possible to repudiate
the agreement arrived at by its representa-
tives. The outside world is not a bit con-
cerned in the quarrel between the President
and the Senate. That is purely a family
matter. But bodies like the New York
Chamber of Commerce ought to be told by
corresponding bodies throughout the world
that they simply stand aghast at the repudi-
ation of an agreement arrived at by the
President and their other agents whom they
took no steps to repudiate before the Peace
Conference while that body was in session.
* # * •
The Meeiiouu.ye Steamship Co.: —
Added Nomi-
Oross to Re- nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June ’12.. 9 p.c. = 7,650 10,250 115,227
Premiums on new shares. . 6,800 122,027
£5OOO written olf . . . . 117,027
Dec., ’12.. 8,715 7 p.c. = 0,843 1,872 118.899
June, ’13.. 20,107 8 „ „ 8,160 11,947 130,846
Dec., ’13.. 21,164 8 „ „ 8,160 13,004 143,850
June, ’14.; 16,966 7 „ „ 7,140 9,826 153,676
Pref. Ord. Total.
Dec., ’14.. 17,409 6p.c. Bp.c. 8,463 8,946 162,622
June, T 5.. 29,371 6 „ 15 „ 16,079 13,292 175,914
Transferred to capital, £51,000 124,914
Dec., ’15.. 32,433 6p.e. lOp.c. 13,530 18,903 143,817
June. ’16.. 33,045 6 „ 10 „ 13,530 19,515 163,332
Dec., ’16.. 27,598 6 „ 10 „ 13,530 14,068 177,400
June, ’l7 .. 29,201 6 „ 10 „ 13,530 15,671 193,071
Dec., ’17.. 48.950 6 „ 10 „ 13,530 35,420 228,491
June,’lB.. 32,466 6 „ 10 „ 13,530 18,936 247,427
Transferred to capital, £85,000 162,427
Dec., ’lB.. 30,593 6p.c. 10 p.c. 15,655 14,938 177,365
June,’49.. 32,018 6 „ 10 ~ 17,780 14,238 191,603
Dec., T 9.. 29,383 0 „ 10 „ 17,780 11,603 203,206
In their latest report the directors had,
of course, to say something about the co.’s
recent troubles; though they hardly fell
within the period covered by the ac-
counts : "The strike of marine engineers
lias been fraught with lamentable results to
the community. As a consequence the
greater part of the fleet has been laid up
for a considerable time.” But there will
lie no lamentations from shareholders, for
they are not invited to practise self-
denial along with the public; instead, they
get their usual dividends. Nevertheless, the
directors say that "the profits for the half-
year are short of the amount necessary to
pay these dividends by £2273.” They show
the net profit as £15,507; but that was
after dropping £6522 into an insurance fund
and after also setting aside £7354 for de-
preciation and other purposes. Thus
actual disclosed earnings for the half
amounted to £29,383, not much below the
average of previous terms. But true net
profits depend on what is a fair allowance to
make for depreciation, etc. This record of
the amounts dropped into various reserves
indicates that the management varies its
opinion widely as to what should be set
aside:—
Additions to
Additions Reserves for
to Depreciation,
Insurance Renewals and
Reserve. Contingencies.
Dec., 1914 .. .. £1322 £7,000
June, 1915 . . . . 1440 11,500
June, 1916 .. .. 1585 7,952
Dec., 1916 . . . . 5928 8,100
June, 1917 . . . . 7189 16,943
Dec., 1917 .. .. 6845 30,064
June, 1918 .. .. 7199 10,000
v y- J
Dec., 1918 .. .. 14,677
June, 1,919 .. .. 6560 8,319
Dec., 1919 . . . . 0522 7,354
If about £l4OO per half was a fair allow-
ance for insurance between 1914-16, why is
£6522 necessary now? And if £7OOO was
considered ample for depreciation, etc., five
years ago, why should £7354 be necessary
with the hook value of fixed assets reduced
by £70,000?
Nowadays the co. has more than ships
to earn something for shareholders, and even
were the fleet tied up for the whole of any
term there would be a considerable income
from investments. At the latest balance
no less than £200,941 was in deposits, war
loans and invested in other cos.; blit some
of these cos. are probably more or less
dependent on this co., and their earnings are
affected if its fleet is laid up. Practically
45 p.c. of the co.’s net assets are at present
in more or less liquid form, as the last
column of this comparison shows: —
De0.,’14. June,’l9. Dec.,’l9.
Liquid assets .. .. £68,819 £328,655 £371,406
Liabilities . . . . 63,830 75,496 107,803
Surplus .. £4,989 £253,159 £263,603
Steamships and other
non-liquid assets .. £393,450 £322,724 £323,883
In five years the co. has thus accumulated
no less than £258,614 of surplus liquid
assets, and The Bulletin would not bo
surprised if something more than that has
been stored up, for, despite the co.’s big
holding of cash assets, in the five years
liabilities have grown by £44,000, and the
“sundry balances” section of the item possibly
cloaks something which may not be called
for. Meantime, however, the Sydney, Bris-
bane and Kapunda have been sold; but
probably because they had been writteni
down hard, or maybe because purchases of
other fixed assets have been made, the book
value of such assets has increased by only
£69,567. Hence, unless there is something
to be written off the book values, the
balance-sheets admit an improvement of
£189.047 during the period after over
£139,000 has been distributed among share-
holders. Present capital is £366,000, but
£136,000 of that represents bonus additions
made, but not necessarily all earned, during
the war period.
* * * *
N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co., Ltd.
(Sydney) :
Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1909. . £11,085 0 p.c. = £5,504 £5,581 £47,625
1910.. 24,355 12 ~,,11,008 13,347 60,972
1911.. 25,594 11 ~,, 12,842 12,752 73,724
Transfer-red to capital, £55,038 .. 18,686
1912.. 39,417 111 p.c.= 16.328 23,089 41,775
1913.. 31,727 111 ~ „ 17,062 14,665 56,440
Transferred to Capital, £18,346 .. 38,094
1914.. 28,760 111 p.c.= 17,796 10,964 49,058
1915.. 16,478 8* „ „ 13,851 2,627 51,685
1916.. 13.732 8 „ „ 13,209 523 52,208
1917.. 20,192 10 ~,, 16,511 3,681 55,889
1918.. 17,979 10 „ „ 16,511 1,468 67,857
1919.. 24,367 10 „ „ 16,511 7,856 65,213
Despite the serious drought N. S. Wales
experienced last year this co. did very well.
In the North Coast districts the cow cocky
had a very troublesome time; but Jupiter
Pluvius remained faithful to the Illawarra,
and Strawberry’s owner there has had a
gorgeous run, not only because of the excep-
tionally good seasons, but also because price-
fixing Boards adjusted the market on a basis
which would give the less fortunate northern
dairy-farmer a chance. While the metro-
polis has been paying exceptionally high
prices, the flow of milk on the N.S.W. South
Coast has been so great that the receiving
depdts have been refusing supplies. In fact,
in one instance at least 40 p.c. of milkings
have been turned away—a damning indict-
ment of Government price-fixing methods.
The record high prices have, of course, given
the F. F. & I. Co. a little more in commis-
sions. But cow-juice is only one of the co.’s
lines; it mixes frozen meat with the
manufacture of ice-cream and bread-
stuffs, distributes other eatables and
runs its own restaurant. The cold-
storage business has looked up again since
the war, and no doubt renewed activities in
that department have helped considerably
towards the improved net profits now dis-
closed. They are equal to 14f p.c. of the
paid capital: so after distributing a 10 p.c.
div. there is a substantial surplus for
reserves.
Though disclosed net profits during recent
years have been much below the pre-war level,
the returns to shareholders have been good
—though not so fat as the two capitalisa-
tions of reserves shown in the table
would suggest. The co. was badly knocked
about by the 1902 drought, and £73,384 of
capital (Ss. per share) was written off; but
the co. did so well subsequently that besides
improving the dividend return for share-
holders it was able to undertake two
capitalisations which restored to a penny
the capital written off as lost. To those
who got in when the co.’s shares were in
poor favor —before the reinstatement of
capital shares paid to 10s. changed hands at
about 15s. —the present 10 p.c. gives a hand-
some return, while at the latest balance
there were net assets equal to 265. per share,
though slightly under 2s. of that is represented
by an accumulation for “renewals, public risk
and contingencies” and another 3s. by a
reserve against leaseholds. Another view of
how well the co. has done during the past
10 years is given by this comparison of
balance-sheet figures, which also shows the
slower progress made during the past five
years:—•
1909. 1914. 1919.
Liabilities .. ..£22,708 £60,325 £59,054
Property, plant, etc. .. 114,656 204.426 176,009
Stock 11,815 15,947 25,135
Cash and investments.. 19,126 31,118 32,137
Book debts . . .. 19,218 31,905 64,356
The surplus of more or less liquid assets
over liabilities has been as follows: 1909,
£27,451; 1914, £18,035; and 1919, £02,574.
Taking into consideration the movements
of the book values of fixed assets, the
improvement for the five years to 1914 ac-
cording to the balance-sheets was £80,954,
and for the five years since only £34,157.
But note that the past year’s operations
have alone strengthened reserves to an ex-
tent only about £4OO short of wdiat had been
attained in the previous four. The co.
depends upon efficient organisation and the
weather, and though shareholders have some
control over the former factor, erratic
seasons are always liable to upset >nny
prophet w r ho ventures on the subject of
dividends.
« » « •
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co., Ltd.,
always moves in a mysterious way. The
latest is a scheme to reduce capital, but the
why and wherefore are not apparent from
the circular to shareholders which accom-
panies the notice convening a meeting to
consider the alteration of Articles. Appa-
rently shareholders are to be told nothing
of consequences before they have agreed to
the amendment of the Articles, for not until
a confirmatory meeting has been held will
“full particulars” be divulged. They are
now merely informed that the management
considers the Queensland position impossible
and that the extension and renewal of
northern mills is out of the question under
present conditions. Having decided that the
liquid assets which have been stored up for
these purposes are no longer required, “it
is now necessary to decide what action shall
be taken in regard to the money thus with-
drawn from the business.” So the Board
proposes that “debentures to the amount of
£050,000 should be divided among share-
holders .... being sufficient to return £4 out
of each £2O share.” The rate of interest to
be carried by these debentures and their cur-
rency are kept a dark secret. The imme-
diate effect of the proposal is apparently to
convert £650,000 of shareholders’ capital into
a similar amount of loan capital carrying
an unspecified interest. the whole of this
debenture stock represents “money with-
drawn from the business” and is, it seems, to
be issued wholly against public securities,
it should not be eligible for any of the profits
from sugar, but be entitled merely to the
net return from tire investments. Why “it
is certainly desirable that the bonds” —what
bonds, by the way?—“should be held by
nearly 3doo individuals rather than by one
institution” is not clear. Also it is very
unlikely that the directors would take the
risk of allowing the profits from sugar to
appear to give a fatter return on paid capi-
tal, which seems one of the possibilities in
the scheme a.s now presented. Quite evi-
dently it is not intended that the circular
should make anything clear; and until the
management has something further to say
it is idle to make guesses.
* * * *
Bon Marche Ltd. —This Sydney drapery
was established as a side-line of the old
Marcus Clark business, and when the present
co. took over the Marcus Clark concern its
offspring was adopted, too, though its affairs
have been conducted independently. Now
the directors have decided to float it off, the
public being invited to take 80,000 £1 7-J
p.c. cum. prefs. The new co. is to have si
nominal capital of a quarter of a million—
-150,000 ordinaries and 100,000 prefs. The
purchase price is £150,000, which acquires
the following assets: stock, £30,510; book
debts, £54,950; plant, etc., £3500; War-
Loan, £1010; altogether £90.000 of tangible
assets. The remaining £60,000 of the
purchase money represents goodwill. It is
a stiff price to pay for a drapery concern
with £90,000 of visible assets. However,
the vendor co. takes all the ordinary capital,
so to the public, which subscribes only for
the prefs., it doesn’t matter much whether
the goodwill represented by ordinary cap-
ital is £15.000 or £150,000. In fact, the
enlargement of the item is probably merely
a device to prevent the dividend return in-
viting Criticism should the co. do particu-
larly well. Much more questionable is the
provision by which for the £90,000 of
tangible assets and the goodwill Marcus
Clark and Co. take 100,000 fully paid
ordinaries and £.7 0,000 cash. In other words,
the vendor concern takes £50,000 of the
£BO,OOO cash put up by the public.
The security offered the pref. holder in
Bon Marche is as follows. The co. has
£90,000 of tangible assets, slightly over a
third of which is represented by _stock,
valued at cost or under. As to the £54,980
of book debts, Bowes and Craig give them
a certificate of health- —“full provision” hav-
ing been made for bad and doubtful debts.
In addition, the new co. takes over the lease
of the present premises, which has still 20
years to run; and though the item is not
included in the assets covered by the pur-
chase price, presumably it goes over with-
out charge. Assuming that the assets prove
to be worth all they are represented to be,
then after the Marcus Clark Co. has taken out
the £50,000 of cash there will remain
£120,000 of tangible assets to represent
£BO,OOO of pref. capital, or 30s. of assets
to cover each £1 share. During normal
years Bon Marche profits averaged about
£ll.OOO-per annum; for the past three years,
£13,300. So after allowing for taxation
recent net profits have been sufficient to
provide twice over the £6OOO required for
the prefs.’ div., and there will be an addi-
tional £30,000 at work. Also the ordinaries’
div. must not exceed 7-J p.c. p.a. until a
reserve fund of £40,000, equal to 10s. per
pref. share, has been accumulated. So both
the security for capital and the prospects of
regular divs. look good.
* * * #
“W’gfibba” on Queensland’s State iron
and steel works: —
The Queensland Cabinet made a momentous
decision for the State when it decided to establish
tlie State Steel and iron works at Bowen at a capital
outlay of between two and three millions. The final
choice of Bowen'after the claimants had been narrowed
down to Bo web and Bulimba was received with the
gravest concern by those who had an opportunity of
weighing the respective merits of the two sites.
Bowen has bben selected on account of its coal
supplies and the probability of the iron ore having
to come from Cloncurry, for the numerous examina-
tions by the Mines Department officials have failed
to reveal any other deposits in the State suitable for
steel manufacture. Biggenden, with its half-million
tons ore, would possibly keep the works going only
three or four years.
The big gamble is whether Bowen coal will pro-
vide the necessary metallurgical coke. A few
laboratory coking tests do not settle that involved
question. Notwithstanding the reiterated state-
ments that Bowen possesses the best coal in the
State, experts are left cold. No one denies the
enormous tonnage, but the published analyses show
it to be high in ash, with a tendency to clinker.
The ash values run from 10 (extreme lowest) to 16
p.c., with an average of about 14; ‘so there
is no possibility of coke under 18 p.c.
ash. The crushing strength is also an unknown
quantity. The laboratory coke shows little porosity,
another vital point in the economy of blast-furnaces.
Further, Cloncurry ores are extremely siliceous,
and will have to be railed 600 miles. Lime will be
an expensive item in fluxing the silica. Bowen has no
deep foreshores, and something over £lOO,OOO will
go in dredging and jetties. Gas coal will probably
have to be obtained from Rosewood, in South Queens-
land, and will thus be costly.
The question of decentralisation may have in-
fluenced the Cabinet in favor of Bowen, and I, too,
would barrack for Bowen every time in preference to
a site near Brisbane, other things being equal. But
this question should not intervene when it becomes
a possibility of making or marring a State venture
incurring such tremendous outlay. The Government
has an option over Yampi Sounds (W.A.) iron
deposits, which, if exercised, may pull Bowen
through; but if Cloncurry ore is to be utilised, the
likelihood of the venture proving a success is very
doubtful.
* * * *
Colonial Gas Association, Ltd.—This
is tlie English co. which manufactures gas
for Footscray, Box Hill Oakleigh, Maldon,
Horsham, Bairnsdale, Bo..alia, Seymour.
Shepparton, Wangaratta and Warragul
(Vic.), Albany (W.A.), Mt. Gambier (S.A.)
and Saudgate (Q.). Though it has been on
the job for 31 years and is controlled by a
Board of heavyweights in the gas world,
there has been nothing fat about it. In
1891 it started off with a 7 p.c. div., but
after the big loan-boom smash returns to
shareholders got down as low as 24 p.c. and
have only lately erep! back to 7 p.c, During
the past few years prospects have brightened,
for though the country tow 7 ns which the co.
illuminates have expanded very slowly when
they have expanded at all, the production
of suburban works —particularly in indus-
trial Footscray and residential Box Hill,
which will be brought 10 minutes closer to
Melbourne by the electrification of the rail-


Metropolitan-Vickers Electrical Co., Ltd.
Tramway Motors
A tramway motor must be of strong electrical and mechanical construction
to stand the shocks and strains of constant service.
Metropolitan-Viekers Tramway Motors possess these qualifications and
represent the best motor practice—the result of long and wide experience.
There are types to suit varying conditions of service, track, gauge, size of
car, etc., and their use will ensure the highest efficiency, longest life and a
reliable sei’vice in all kinds of weather.
- rit ITt *
Australian Offices —
84 William Street, Melbourne. 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
Works :■
-Trafford Park, Manchester, England.
The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within th'- leach
of every motorist. The G.E. Mercury Arc Batterv
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere trifle compared with the
convenience and economy of home charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efficiency of a battery, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney ; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
Make the water supply for your stock safe. Use
Aluminoferric in the proportion of lib. to two to
three thousand gallons of the most turbid water. In
about three hours all the sediment, mud or fine veg-
etable matter will be precipitated to the bottom, leav-
ing the water crystal clear and pure. Aluminoferric
is quite harmless and has no deleterious effect on
the water whatever. Sold by storekeepers every-
where. William Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth.— Advt. ' [2
Concentrating machinery for all classes of minerals
can be made locally just as well as they can be
imported from abroad. The Austral Otis Engineer-
ing Company, of Melbourne, specialise in all
machinery for the mill, including crushers, rolls,
grinding pans, tube mills, concentrating tables,
flotation plants, ore samplers, etc. They have
installed numbers of plants in Australia and’outside
it, and are always ready to give information on
machinery for milling.— Advt. [4
* * * »
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.—Copy of extract received
from the Victorian Hardwood Milling & Seasoning Co.
Pty., Ltd., 20th February, 1919: “In reference to your
communication of the 13th inst., we liafe to state
that the wooden pipes supplied by your Company
have given entire satisfaction and are in a thorough
good state of preservation. (Sgd.) Chris. Ingram,
Managing Director.” Send for our illustrated cata-
logue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company Ltd.,
(II.0.) Burns Bay Road, Longueville, N.S.W. Con-
tractors to all State Governments. — Advt.
* * * »
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlercagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
Austualian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
• • * «
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins,
C.E. (London); Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work ; contractors advised ; railway work.
00 Queen-street, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * #
The manufacture of ‘Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
Tasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Sydney.—
Advt.
* » * *
The ever-increasing wages for labor are causing
more attention to be given to mechanical appliances
for saving labor wherever possible. Messrs. Arthur
Leplastrier and Co., Circular Quay (East), Sydney, who
maintain a special engineering department for this
class of work, will supply drawings and estimates of
equipment to suit any requirement. Put your pro-
posals up to them. Queensland inquiries: The Austra-
lian Machinery Co., Ltd., Mary Street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
* * • •
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”— Advt.
* * t #
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selby k Co.,
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bonrke Street, Melb. — Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss oi Profits
Insure in
»* 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 244,396
Paid-up Capital .. 122,000
Income (Cross) 1918 .. 457,852
Established 1910.
ACENTS WANTED,
Brandies in every State.
Write for particulars.
\V. 11. CAVK, General Manager,
283 George Street. Sydney.
• AINSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
-“THRIFT”—the National Watchword-
In these present days of economy, when apparel is required to give the utmost
service,
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
provide an excellent polish, which will increase the wear, preserve the leather and
give a bright and lasting shine. Bostock’s Violo Cream, for Patent Leather and
Glacfi Kid, is a scientific emulsion of high-grade waxes, which keeps the leather
soft and pliable, thus preventing cracks and insuring added service.
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood and White. In Tins, Bottles and lobes.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney.
ways—is rapidly growing. Last year’s out-
put of over 279 million feet gas was an
increase of 10 p.c. on the previous year.
Gas sales gave a revenue of £80,538 and
residuals £20,004. After meeting all exes.,
interest on loan capital and paying 7 p.c.
on the £45,752 of pref. capital, there re-
mained a net profit of £lO,BOO available for
the ordinaries. To pay 7 p.c. on their
£157,735 of capital calls for £11,041, so, unless
too much revenue was written off, the increased
dividend was not earned. Shareholders’
capital amounts to £203.487, and debentures
and other liabilities total £61,407. More or
less liquid assets tot up £40,409, so there is
an excess of liabilities of almost £21,000.
The 15 enterprises stand in the books at
£258.648. The co.’s present difficulty is to
find funds to make necessary extensions,
and the directors say they could very easily
make use of £lOO,OOO if they could get it.
At the latest they were trying to place
40,000 £1 7 p.c. prefs. for a start.
***•«•
February 29 put an extra day into the
current year and provided a cheap feast for
the banks. Interest for the extra day is, of
course, charged up on every overdraft, but
not one penny is earned by fixed deposits,
nor do the staffs get any pay for that day,
their salaries, like the fixed deposits, being
calculated on a per annum basis. February
29 should be entered iu the banking calendar
as “All Profit Day.”
* * * *
C. H. M'erz, the English electrical engineer,
a schoolmate of George Swinburne’s, is
apparently to be put on to another good
thing. He was consulting engineer on the
job of electrifying Melbourne suburban rail-
ways, and was paid on a commission basis of
5 p.c. on all materials purchased. Now,
though our own men are apparently quite as
capable, it is proposed to appoint him
general supervisor of the Morwell electricity
scheme until it is firmly established.
* * * *
“Main "Lode”: Re the suggestion that
some of the cos. don’t seem to be co-operat-
ing cordially in the inquiry into the alleged
prevalence of pneumonia in the Broken Hill
mines. I happen to know, and can assure
The Bulletin, that the managers, being as
anxious as the men are to get at the truth,
are doing everything possible to facilitate
the work of the Commission: they are pro-
viding not only money but also men and
material, that the work of the Commission
shall be so thorough as to elicit the facts in
order that remedies may be applied if evils
are disclosed. Everybody concerned main-
tains an open mind ; the truth being essential,
the cos. are after it.
Lionel Robinson, Clark and Co. now have a
greater say than anybody else in Hampton
Plains. They hold a controlling interest in
Hampton Properties, Ltd., which owns Block
50, and the recently reconstructed Hampton
Uruguay, which holds Block 48, is now mostly
RoMnson-Clark. Several new London floats
backed by the co. are talked of, including one
which will take over the promising White
Hope and possibly one or two adjoining
areas. Of the Hope’s 130,000 issued shares,
Robinson and his pals hold about two-thirds,
and they also have a six months’ option on
the remaining 30,000 unissued shares at £2
apiece.
* # * '*
Manager Stuckey’s estimate of Edna
Deeps’ ore reserves as at January 9 was as
follows:
Val’ie per
Level Tons. Ton. Worth.
No. 6 .. .. 10.000 50s. £25.000
No. 6 . . . . 3.000 • 355. 5,260
No. 6 . . . . 18,000 40s. 36,000
The last line represents probable ore; but
Stuckey thinks the values will be got, though
above and below No. 5 level he has found
poor patches alternating with richer sections
of the reef. This was also Consolidated’s
experience; that show had the utmost diffi-
culty in securing accurate samplings. The
change in the physical condition of the shoot
explains the drop in the grade of Deeps’
latest milling; the 7750 tons handled during
the past six months gave only £17,000, or
not quite 445. per ton. Had it not been for
gold premiums of £2523 and interest, to-
gether with a taxation refund, the receipts
would have only just balanced the outgo.
Westonia was badly hit by the 'fin, with the
result that at one stage Stuckey’s costs were
50s. lid. per ton; but he managed to get
down to 365. 7d. towards the end of the year.
Development outlay was normal, but the
main shaft has now to be put down towards
the No. 7 level and timbering is also required
in No. 6. Stuckey l.as cemented the water
out of his mine, and has thus far avoided
pumping costs; nevertheless. 365. per ton
looks to be about his possible minimum.
Cheap working conditions are out of the ques-
tion on the field to-day, though larger ton-
nages may help to cut costs. At No. 6 level
the reef has been driven on 35ft._ south of
the main shaft and to a point 135 ft. north
from that working, but it pinches and makes
a lot in its course. The extension south is
a surprise, just as the narrowing and impov-
erishing of the central section for a length of
60ft. is a nasty knock. As the face was in
9ft. of ore worth 755. at 135 ft. Stuckey
counts on getting an average width of 12ft.
ore for a length of 300 ft. at No. 6. He
thinks there are “the strongest reasons to
expect the reef to continue,” and the fact
that values are still w 7 ell distributed through
the ore “gives more hope of improvement in
deeper levels than if the gold were in patches
in the reef.” It should not be long before
Deeps gets the Central’s New reef on the
underlie nor’-west; then, and if Stuckey
continues to hold back the flood, Deeps’ star
may twinkle.
# * * *
Great Boulder’s ore reserves are now
estimated at 325.314 tons containing
236,9080 z. of gold (fine). The quantity and
assay value are slightly lower than the
figures of 12 months ago, but, considering
what has been taken out of the mine since,
they are well maintained. At the price the
co. is at present receiving for its gold
through the Producers’ Association the
money value of the reserves is about
£1,300,000 and the profit in sight approxi-
mately £BOO.OOO. But there is no guarantee
that the gold premiums will be collected
on more than a small proportion of these
reserves, though when gold falls to normal
value costs may be expected to fall too.
» * * *
Menzies Consolidated (W.A.), whose
shares are mostly held in England, made a
net profit of £1496 for the past financial
year. There was a heavy increase in work-
ing costs, but this was offset to some extent
by the premiums received through the Gold
Producers’ Association. The co. has practi-
cally abandoned hope of ever making much
of a success of its 186 acres at Menzies, and
the manager nowadays devotes a lot of his
time scanning the horizon for a likely-looking
new property.
* * * *
Rutter Clarke, of Melbourne, is forming a
syndicate to have a look at Mayman’s Con-
sols, on the north end of the Ivalgoorlie field.
The show has a shaft 150 ft. deep, and a
lode driven along for 120 ft. is said to be 6ft.
wide of 12dwt. dirt. That claim is to be
tested by John Warrick, of the Great
Boulder, who recently ran the rule over
the Mutooroo’s block. Alongside Mayman’s
is the Hidden Secret, which in distant days
gave some show specimens of telluride and
a fair quantity of gold.
* # * *
Professor William Nicholas, formerly
boss at Burbank’s Birthday Gift, Cool-
gardie, and before that lecturer on mining
and geology at the Melbourne Uni. and
Bendigo School of Mines, died in Westralia
the other day. In the long-ago he was
senior inspector of mines in Victoria, but
was sacked by Berry on “Black Wednes-
day.”
From a well-known Malavan tin-man: —
The Wild Cat’s tale of Badak (B. 26/2/’2O) is
in some respects fair comment, but it is stated
therein that only five original and six check bores
have been put down. There were 20 original bores
in addition to 15 other scout bores. Admitted that
this does not constitute close boring, still 20 is more
than file.
It is certainly difficult to believe that an extensive
arei of rich ground remains undiscovered at such
a late date, but it appears to be established beyond
question that this country is very inaccessible, and
that very few 7 , if any, white men have seen it before
Orton’s advent. It seems quite possible that Orton,
who has spent several months on the spot, and
Wilson, who was \vith # him for a few weeks, know
a good deal more about the place than the tin-men
who question whether it will ultimately provide 100
acres to average a lb.
However, the argument will not be settled until
the first plant is producing tin on a commercial
scale, and until then it would be rash to figure on
such extraordinary values as have been reported.
The Bulletin did not intend to make it
appear that Orton had put down only five
bores ; but in weighing up available evidence
of the value of the property it took only
the bores checked by Wilson to be worth
serious consideration. Prior to Badak. Orton
had never been heard of as a prospector;
and the fact that he had put down 20 bores
on 100 acres and reported an average of
14.631 b. per yard, was certainly not con-
vincing proof of the value of the whole pro-
perty. Nor do Wilson’s six check bores
decide the possibilities. Certainly the scat-
tered work done on 100 acres does not war-
rant a market value of £SQO,OoO for the 5000
acres held. Nevertheless, there is little
doubt that the property contains high
values. But, after all, what is the strength
of Badak as a dredging proposition? One
report from Malaya the other day alleged
that “the ground was worked by Chinese for
years with poor results” and that it is
“full of boulders.” Until close boring
has been done and an expert has given a
certificate as to the suitabilit" of the pro-
perty for dredge-working, the value of Badak
must remain doubtful.
* * * *
Mining-engineer R. A. Rolfe has a cheer-
ful word to say about Mammoth Molybde-
nite (N.S.W.). which has been revived by
Sydney interests. Rolfe is confident that by
selecting the ore, of which the manage-
ment loosely says there are “unlimited
quantities.” and by keeping an alert
jnptnUnvrncd- on tbo ir>b, tb° Mammoth 7 s
“undoubtedly payable” at present prices. He
expresses himself as satisfied with the co.’s
plant. On a basis of 450 tons handled
weekly he reckons out. mine costs at 9s. 6d.
and milling at 3s. 9.87 d. With a recovery
of 85 p.c. from .5 p.c. crudes, and with
molybdenite at 955. per unit, he anticipates
a profit of about £15,000 p.a. The new* co.
has put W. Mclntyre in as mine manager.
* * # *
Most people have forgotten New Lyell
Consols’ existence. For many years London
fed the concern, and apparently it is stilt
hanging on in the hope that further susten-
ance will flow from that direction. But
just now there is £1750 of expected money
which has not materialised, this amount be-
ing the balance to complete an option on a
first issue of 150,000 10s. shares, with the
right to call for a further like amount of
scrip at a later date. The people on the other
side seemingly refuse to dip into their
pockets further; which is not surprising, for
there are more attractive gambles than
copper-chasing on an outside block at Wallaroo
(S.A.). Anyhow, as London won’t oblige, the
show is "in the position it has been for the
past two years”—hung up for want of funds
to resume mining operations. The mining
staff now consists of one caretaker. Never-
theless, directors continue to draw 7 their fees
—£3so last year. Total London and Mel-
bourne expenses swallowed £960, w T hile the
mine demanded only £l9l. Vendors got
200,000 fully-paid 10s. shares, and of the
£73,000-odd of cash put up by the public
only £2O remains. The co. owes the Mines
Department £5OO. Unless something hap-
pens soon there will be another job for the
undertaker.
* * * *
A little syndicate of 100 £lO shares has
been formed in Adelaide to try a copper
show 37 miles north-east of Burra (S.A.)
and 21 miles from Terowie, the nearest rail-
way 7 station. An old Cousin Jack underground
boss put M. ,T. Kain on the scent, and the
latter was so impressed by the large forma-
tion on Mt. Waratah that he set out to
have it tested. The Mount Waratah Copper
Syndicate hopes to get drills going soon.
There is plenty of timber handy, and an
old river bed near by is regarded as an easy
damming proposition.
* * * *
Mt. Bischoff’s old chief, .J. D. Millen, now
prospects politics in the Senate, and Cyril
Gudgeon, formerly of the Extended, runs
the show 7 . During the past six months he
put through 52,334 tons for 199 tons oxide
worth 63f p.c. tin. So the average grade
treated was only .232 p.c. Costs have
moved to a shade over Bs., mining account-
ing for almost 55., and milling Is.
However, there was a working profit of
£12.113, so £7500 flowed out to shareholders
after waiting off 5 p.c. for depreciation.
Very little development has been done by
Gudgeon: since he took over the show 7 he
has been making a detailed investigation
of the lodes. He should have something
interesting to say on this subject shortly.
Westport-Stockton (M.L.) colliery suffers
from labor shortage, and even though the
co. is pushing a liousing-accAmmodation
scheme (incidentally also providing homes
on a long-distance payment system) it can-
not get nearly enough miners. Production
fell off from 166,716 tons for 1917 to 155,563
tons for 1918, and to 128,323 tons for the
past year. But despite the smaller tonnage
the 1919 gross profit on sales (£86,400)
was £4366 more than for the previous year,
and net profits show 7 ed a big improvement:
1918. 1919.
Net profit .. .. £7958 £11,097
Pref. div. (8 p.c.) . . 3818 3,865
Ord. div. . . .. Nil 6,573(5p.c.)
Depreciation .. . . 4000 5,500
During the year a considerable amount was
expended on making production of large
tonnages possible at the co.’s new mine, so ;
notwithstanding the amounts written off,
the book value of fixed assets has increased
by £2288. Besides the paid capital of
£181,310 (£50,000 of which represents 8 p.c.
prefs.), the management is working on
£40,625 of debentures. More or less liquid
assets total £30,862, and there is an excess
of liafi'Uties of 1,347.
• * * #
Another effort will be made to do some-
thing with the Warra (Q.) coalfield.
Despite the Government’s failure, a syndi-
cate proposes to sink about half-a-mile from
the abandoned State shaft and about 200
yards south of the old workings. A bore
put down on the site selected struck a top
seam at 187 ft. containing 31ft. of clean
coal. If the syndicate meets with success
there, sinking will be continued to 500 ft.,
where a Oft. seam of coal of first-class
quality is claimed to exist,
■4 * * *
“H.E.D.”: Industrial Melbourne has
once again been in a state of chaos because
it could not get coal; yet Victoria has
proved workable and payable good-quality
coal areas reaching from Wonthaggi through
Jumbunna, Korurnburra to Warragul. Vast
deposits are proved to exist in the Otway
forest; w 7 liile brown coal is also available
at Morwell, Laverton and Lai Lai. Just
north of Traralgon is a mountain of black
coal. Yet, despite all these resources, Vic.
toria is dependent on N. S. Wales for the
bulk of its supplies. The Wonthaggi field
was opened up only when the Government
realised what a position the railways
would be in if a protracted strike caused
a stoppage of supplies. Is the stifling of
the coal-mining industry in Victoria due to
the efforts of people who would be the losers
if the industry were flourishing?


CONTROLLING THE TRAFFIC.
W. ,T. McWilliams, M.P., leader of the Country party, consisting of 12 members, said that his party would hold the balance o, potter in the Federal Parliament."


THE
Union Trustee Company
of Australia Limited
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees,
etc.
New South Wales: Victoria : Queensland
The only Trustee Company having?
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackeliar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Hon. 11. Y. Braddon,
M.L.C., F. B. S. Falkiner* James Kidd, W. H.
Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan Sinclair.
V. G. WATSON, JOHN MAIR,
Assistant Manager. Manager.
CALL OR SEND FOR COMPANY’S BOOKLET.
&
c?*
You can HEAR , and
we prove it by posting
you an easy-to-wear.
A'ctfusticon
ON 10 DAYS’
FREE TRIAL.
No deposit, obligation, or expense. Over
i'iO.OOO delighted users, including the Prime
Minister, Mr. Hughes, who has heen using
the “Acousticon” for more than five years'
Lamson
Store!
Service
Co.
102 Daking House. SYDNEY
Olderfleet, Collins St.,MELB.
N.Z.: John Procter, WO High St., Christc’h.
W.A.: 11. Little & Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
EDGEWORTH
Smoking Tobacco.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARHINQ ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CHEKSEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
March birthdays:—
Justice Powers (High Court), 67, on 3rd; A. 11.
I'eez, K.C. (Q.), 60, and Edward Dyson, 55, on 4th;
J. Russell French, Bank of N. S. Wales, 73, and Vic.
Premier Lawson, 45, on sth ; Painter Tom Roberts,
64, on 9th; Coadjutor Archbishop O’Shea (M.L.),
-0, on 13th; F. Cl. Clarke (Vic. Minister of Lands),
41, and J. R. Collins (Federal Treasury), 51, on
14th; Prof. Gibson (Melb. Uni.), 51, on 15tli;
Baronet Rupert Clarke, 55, on 16th; Geo. Steward
(Vic. Police Commissioner), 53, on 17th; ex-N.S.W,
Senator J. T. Walker, 79, on 20th; Lieut.-Colonel
Burston (Vic.) 32, on 21st; Fred Johns (“Who’s
Who in the tiommon wealth”), 51, on 22nd; Vic.
Senator Geo. Fairbairn, 65, on 23rd; H. B. Lefroy
(ex-W.A. Premier), 66, and Bishop Anderson (River-
ina), 61, on 24tli; Admiral Gaunt (b. in Victoria),
55, on 25th; W. F. Massey (Prime Minister of M.L.),
64, Rear-Admiral Clarkson, 61, on 26th; Mrs.
Campbell Praed (b. Q’land), 69, and Rev. Dr.
Burgess (S. Aus.), 81, on 27th; J. A. Norris (Vic.
Auditor-General), 48, on 28th; 11. P. Colebatch
(W.A.), 48, Jethro Brown (S.A.), 52, and Prof.
Benham (M.L.), 60, on 29th ; A. R. Outtrim (Vic.),
75, on 30th; Francis 11. D. Bell (M.L.), 69, on 31st.
Sydney Telegraph last week lost its old-
established financial editor, Robert Lucas
Nash, aged 74. In the early ’nineties the
Telegraph was struggling for a place, and
finding advts. desperately hard to get against
the S. M. Herald’s competition. Nash, who
had. been sub-editor of the Economist, was
brought in to draw the eye of the commer-
cial man to the interloping paper. He made
a very good fist of it, for, though he hadn’t
the knack of putting things attractively, he
had a large academic knowledge of figures
and finance. He was old-fashioned and con-
servative, but he was honest and methodical
(and the financial editor who isn’t that isn’t
anything), and if he was hopeless in his
politics his intentions were a 1 Ways honor-
able. Practically he died at his job; and
that was inevitable. He took his three-
weeks’ holiday every year. Other times he
went to the office ut 11 a.m. Those weeks
he didn’t arrive till twelve.
The first white man to take to living with
the now extinct Tasmanian abos. was a
convict named Campbell, who in 1813 had
been knocking about with the South Arm
and Bruny Island mobs for some years and
had acquired a black wife. He was per-
suaded to bring some of his friends into
Hobart Town in
the hope that a
better feeling
might spring
up between them
and the white
people. If it did it
soon withered.
Later yarns about
white men joining
the blacks seem to
have been very
doubtful as far as
the Speck is con-
cerned. Plenty of
white men took to
themselves, by
force or otherwise,
native gins, and
some learned to
speak the blacks’
language, but none
o f them really
joined the tribes in
the way that vari-
ous runaway con-
victs and ship-
wrecked mariners
did on the main-
land —f ro m Lee
an d his co m-
panions at Port
Stephens in 1794
onwards.
J. S. SCOTT,
Melbourne
manager of the
Commonwealth
Bank.
Tom Burke, who bought Studley Hall.
Ivew, for £5600, and relieved the Vic. State
Government of an incubus, has presented the
property to Xavier College for a prep,
school. A little over .17 years ago Burke
was a poorly-paid clerk in the Railway
Department. He chucked the job, and in-
tluced State employees to start a co-operative
store. The business was very badly handled
and petered out; whereupon Burke began
land jobbing on his own account, and seems
to have made a pile in a few years.
Unlike John Madden, Lieut.-Governor
Irvine is not drawing the whole of the ap-
propriation (£5000) for Victoria’s cocked
hat. He is content with the lialf-pay
allotment which he got while Stanley was on
leave from July 1 till January 31. Of
course he is paid in full as C.J., and he
also occupies, rent free, Government House,
the lease, rates and upkeep of which run
the State into something over £l5OO a year.
From the Federal Gallery :
The Labor squad reappointed Tudor and Page
leader and whip, but scored a surprise by handing
the secretaryship to Arthur Blakeley, president of
the A.W.U. This is only Blakeley’s second Parjia-
ment, but he has already forged well ahead, largely
by declining to minimise Arthur Blakeley’s import-
ance. He is a keen, cocksure young- man, whose
hatchet face only grows animated when its owner
is shedding recipes for crude Utopias or boosting
some of the credos of his political faith. Privately
he is an aggressive young- man who demands more
attention from the House staff than a Cabinet
Minister.
McWilliams, the leader of the new
Farmers’ party in the Reps., is the hardest-
headed character that Tassy sends to the
National Parliament. Indifferent to repu-
tations and party discipline, he spent a lot
of time last session trying to reduce the size
of Hughes’s head —an occupation in which
he had the delighted assistance of Fowler
and Gregory. He is a cold, bloodless speaker,
without a festive word in his vocabulary, but
he knows every point in the political game
and is fearless. Nominally he is a fruit-
farmer, but he is really a professional poli-
tician, and has been in the Reps, since 1903.
ALL DRESSED UP.
“Peautiful! when they see you in dot suit
they’ll think you’re going to meet der
Prince of Vales.”
Big-hearted Alf Jones, leader of the
Government in Bananaland’s nominee
chamber, is tiring of the job, and is consider-
ing a proposal to stand for the Carnarvon
seat in the Assembly.
3. S. Hanlon, editor of the Brisbane
Worker and one of the 14 new Banana-
land M’s.L.C., is a Creswick (Vic.) native
who first spilt ink in Ballarat, where lie was
educated, and later did it in Perth. He is a
prominent member of the A.J.A., and was
president of the Northern branch in 1914.
The Queensland Uni. will never again see
Roger James Cholineley, who was its lec-
turer in Greek and librarian when the
Great War began. He went to England, got
a commission in the Cheshire Regiment, col-
lected an M.C. and a couple of wounds and
went up to North Russia to argue with the
Bolsheviks after the Armistice. Just, before
the argument ended he was washed over-
board and drowmed. Cholineley was an
Oxford scholar who once scooped in the
Chancellor’s prize for Latin verse and was
resnonsible for an edition of Theocritus,
published while he was in the South African
unpleasantness.
Arthur Nelson Barnett, the Sydney ex-
S.M. who was indirectly responsible for a
lot of the trouble that has occurred in the N.
Territory, died in Melbourne last week.
When Jensen, the geologist, stood up against
the Gilruth coterie, it was suggested that a
Judge should be sent as a Commissioner
to get at the facts. Instead, Barnett was
taken from his job of fining drunks; and his
“inquiry” was of such a character that, at
the. outset, Justice Ewing was boycotted—
until he showed that he wasn’t the same
sort of Commissioner. Barnett was a keen
little man who pushed his way up from a
small job in the Lands Department and was
successively mining warden, police magis-
trate (he succeeded “Rolf Boldrewood”
Browne at Albury), and S.M. in Sydney.
In his younger days he was one of the best
of N.S.W. back-country cricketers.
Fiank Jay (New York) : I was on a
newspaper yob when the reporter with J
referred with much pride to a great-im d!
buried in Australia. As during 8 the £
decade I have been meeting people all ov„
the world who had a cousin in Sydney »r
Melbourne, my * JUI
brother - scribe’s
claim didn’t im-
press me; but when
he said the old
chap was planted
at Cooper’s Creek
I wanted to know
what his relative
had been doing up
there. “Trying to
cross Australia
with a guy named
Burke,” was the
answer. Young
Wills, who is on
th e World an d
hails from' Ten-
nessee, is one of
New York’s most
1> romi s i n g re-
porters.
GENERAL
WHITE, who is
the Common-
wealth’s advance-
agent for the tour
of the Prince of
Wales's co.
Major Rail'd. Victoria’s Chief Secretary,
is promised opposition from an unexpected
quarter at the next State elections. Two
thousand (alleged) of Boyd’s constituents
in Ballarat have begged Captain Jacka,
Y.C., to rise up and pull the Majah’s seat
from under him. Jacka has consented and
is now practising Burke’s Orations
before the looking-glass.
Westralia’s first V.C., Lieut.-Colonel Fred
Bell, arrived back in his native State the
other day. He was a school-teacher when
he left in 1899 with the first mounted con-
tingent for S. Africa. After the difference
with the Boers was settled and Bell had got
his Cross, he remained in East Africa, and
is now a Commissioner in that country.
Henry Buttery, dead in Adelaide at 70,
had lived there for just half a century. lie
was a well-known furniture manufacturer,
and chiefly remarkable for having been a
strong supporter of Labor from its earliest
days of political movement. A lot of people
who would not otherwise have looked twice
at it did so when they saw solid old manu-
facturer Buttery barracking for it.
. Tom Givens, President of the Senate, was
one of the best political roarers in Australia
for many years. In his early days in far-
off Tipperary Tom was credited with having
only one lung. Tired of landlordism in
Ireland, he brought this one to Australia,
where he found he had two. both made of
iron. But he roars now as gently as anv
sucking-dove.
Barratt, the young Darwin lawyer who
has been getting a great advt. out of the
Ewing Cbmmission, has triumphed over a
handicap that would have killed most men.
He was born with his arms all twisted-up
below the elbows and with no thumbs and
only two or three fingers on each hand.
Yet he can write or do any old thing requir-
ing manual dexterity, and do it almost as
well as the next man—often quite as well.
He tried hard to get away during the war.
pointing out that he was physically fit and
that lie reckoned he could do his hit, but
regulations _ were too strong. At the Mel-
bourne Uni. lie was a champion quarter-
miler and a crack-a-jack over the hurdles,
and used to do a bit of footballing.
Baronet Charles Solomon Henry, a mem-
ber of the House of Commons who died
recently in England, was a native of
Adelaide. His father, J. S. Henry, a Jew-
ish merchant, arrived in S. Aus. in ’55, and
was in business there for some years; also
he was president of the Adelaide Hebrew
congregation. Fifty years ago the family
returned to England, where later the son
founded the firm of C. S. Henry and Co..
metal merchants, still in existence as a
liillited liability co. The Adelaide youngster,
a personal friend of Lloyd George’s, was
one of the British Government’s advisers
about metals during the war. He married
into the Lewisolm family of N’York.
“Rangan”: The most glib-tongued member
of Bananaland’s Labor party is “Jimmy”
Larcombe, Minister for Works and ex-
Assistant Minister for Justice. Janies (as
he prefers to be called) can talk sensibly and
to the point on any subject for any length of
time, given intervals for meals. He talked
his way from a lemonade-cart into the old
Liberal seat of Fitzroy, and so on into the
Cabinet. While lacking the vim of Fihelly
or Ryan, his vocabulary is more extensive
and his flights more ambitious. His ever-
ready tongue is backed by a quick brain:
hence he handles a deputation better than
any other Minister of recent years, promises
everything and nothing, and invariably sends
the crowd away contented.
TO MY DAUGHTER TESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
God-daughter Tess, hereby do 1 accept
Godfathership, what it may be not knowing.
And welcome thee, who but a month since leapt
To earth to begin growing.
I know not what can be godfather's duty,
What service of anointing and of chrism ;
I only can applaud thy growing beauty,
And learn thy catechism.
“What is your name?” it says. “Or X. or M. ?”
But ’tisn’t true to say I gave it thee,
Nor promised for thee to renounce again
All “pomp and vanity,”
For, godchild, never did I hate the world
As earth all-wicked, though its snares enmesh ;
All they who laugh to death shall not be hurled,
Nor sinful all their flesh.
I do not wish thee to “obey the Queen”
(Whoever that is by the prayer-book meant),
Nor, till thy “betters” proved so have been,
Do wish thee “reverent.”
“To governors, teachers, spiritual pastors”
I do not wish thee blindly to submit;
For thou slialt have a vote in choosing masters
And vote as thou see’st fit.
I do not wish thee to discover duty
“In that state unto which God’s pleased to ca
thee,”
Diviner discontent shall teach thee beauty,
No matter what befall thee.
And last of all the catechism, god-daughter,
The truly outward and the visible sign
Of baptism is the liquid known as water,
But of the Higher Sacrament is wine.
And now the catechism leave for ten
Gay sunlit years, noting their order read
To confirmation, matrimony, then
The sendee for the dead.
That is the order that the prayer-book gives them,
But let that sequence be for thee protracted ;
Be thou the child of sunlit days, that lives them—
Childhood a song enacted.
I do accept with gratitude and pride
Godfathership to an intelligence
So rare that it made landfall with the tide,
And tried with every sense
To be Australian; while a million babies
Get themselves born in Europe and such places.
Where mad dogs bite ’em sharp and give ’em rabies,
And chilblains pinch their faces.
Children of lesser brain than thou are born
In Lapland, Greenland, Poland, Turkey, Wales;
In London and the Mile End-road, forlorn
In February gales.
But you are you, god-daughter, and you knew
Only Australia satisfies the best;
So you made landfall with the favored few—
Australia does the rest.
So, rare god daughter, fortune is thine own ;
And luck and happiness that made tine fair
Sent a godfather who must stand alone,
And, like thee, also rare.
But childhood’s squally harbors are before thee,
The rocks of teething and of mumps the shoals’;
Measles may shake their blotchy banners o'er thee-
We win who own our souls.
And, after that, your little feet a-walking
Shall stumble till you’ve gravel-rashed your knees,
Or fallen on your nose; eagerly stalking
Chance butterflies and bees.
But mumps and measles, gravel-rash, dentition—
These are to fit you for the fight of life;
To smile and wear out trouble by attrition,
And stronger be by strife.
And by that time, when you arc grown a lad',
Your godpapa in Heaven (if Heaven there be) ’
Shall sit with an old mate, in places shady,
With pipes both drawing free—
Shall sit and have a pitch for many days
(For well eternity can spare a. week).
And talk of the old rushes and old ways,
With Bill from Sapphire Creek;
Shall sit. Tip to his hocks in asphodel.
And have a pitch with all the mates he knew,
And tales of Tess, his godchild, shall he tell.
With pretty lies of you;
With lady-angels listening in bliss,
Filling his month with feathers now and then,
When he shall pay their wages of a kiss
After the ways of men.
But thou shalt happier be in our own land,
Mother of good Australians yet to be;
Glad of a good Australian’s high command
By mountain, plain and sea.
And when thou’st mastered speech, and we can talk,
We’ll speak alone, we two, and put to shame
Ordinary parents—fathers who must balk
At “God” before their name.
God-daughter! 1 and thee to duty fare,
My bulk, thy weight of half a stone or so —
Mine to be lighter, though I live on air;
Thy duty is to grow.
To grow as maize grows by a northern river,
Tall, strong - , and glow as poppy in the corn;
And some of our land’s kindliness deliver,
And be glad thou art born.
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


■
111
II
8:1 j
I
i&rM
mm
■
-
mm m
J
m
Sf
■
?*.«• **» l
.
4 v r -**»' - ■*
■
r
-9
i f - *■ * * •
L .
r
■- : !
SI
«£»
Ki£i
&H
!*'!»)L
i
WmM
AND
Cigarettes
A GOOD JUDGE WILL USE
CLM N) pipes
400
m
m
Pipe Guar^nTe ec {
«S£T_2>
aw3S#fiStB?rf{»w^s3ai«'


LADIES!
The Australian climate is a severe one. It is the weather
which affects yonr skin. If you allow your skin to remain
lifeless and inactive, you cannot have that rich, velvety
skin, with a radiant color that comes and goes. Notice how
wonderfully refreshed your skin looks, and how it takes
on that transparent, natural coloring, with the daily use of
T C*
John $
TRANCE
w
INTER’S
TOILET PREPARATIONS. Harmless to a baby’s Skin—used by Royalty. Six Gold Medals.
POP ORE MARQUISE is an excellent Face Powder, with a charm of its own, a delicate
fragrancy, blending perfectly with the texture of the skin; and a worthy companion to
our New Face Cream, or Eakshmi Cream, which will cleanse your pores of grime and
refresh your new skill tissues.
Obtainable at all Departmental Stores and Chemists, etc. Ask for our
Powders (3 tints), New Face Cream—Vanishing (2 colors) for oily skins, Eakshmi Cream
for dry skins, and Lotion, Soap, Hair Foods (Oily and Non-oily), Carmine, Dry Shampoo,
Dental Cream.
Send 3d. stamp for sample of Soap or Powder (name the tint) or Face Cream, and
Booklet, to John Strange Winter (London, Paris, Rome). Sydney Office: 26-30 Jamieson
Street. Agencies in all States.
e It oman
HIGH-CLASS
'SPECIALTIES
Creams
iri
Pastes
for
Cleaning S Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Aeents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Me bourne.
E. DROWN <§ SONS LONDON
AC3E7VCIES • ALL • OVER • THE • WOULD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America cr the Continent. Bath
De Luxe «n most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
MINCHINBURY
A WORLD’S CHAMPION.
LOTTIE : “I didn’t know that your hucband
drank!”
DOTTIE : “Drink! Why, bless your heart,
America went dry three days after he got
there!”
The big job of repatriating the A.I.F.
from overseas came officially to an end a
few hours after the Cap Verde dropped
anchor in Sydney Harbor on Sunday. There
are still some hundreds of men left over-
seas completing official work or educational
courses, and numbers of men discharged
in England are clamoring for return, which
has been promised. But there will be no
more regular troopships. Seeing that 'the
work of repatriation did not start till
December, 1918, the transport homewards
of 200,000 men in the time is a fair per-
formance. The job has been done in
advance of schedule, anyway, for Monash,
when he took charge, reckoned on getting
the last Australians out of England in
February, 1920.
“Gallery Man”: The opening of the Fcd-
eral Parliament was enlivened by heavy
comedy from the Labor party. In a tone
of burlesque seriousness Brennan proposed
Mahony for the Speakership, whereat Anstey
satirically denounced the idea as another
conspiracy of Ryan, Mannix and Rome.
Brennan’s motion was pushed to a division,
and Hughes had to rely on the Hayseed 11
to shove his nominee into the chair. There
was more serious purpose in John West’s
attack on the mace. The weapon, which is
buried in a dungeon when not on duty, has
lost its ancient significance and become a
brummy symbol of Speaker Johnson’s autho-
rity. Johnson’s great vanity insists on the
mace being flourished to the uttermost limit
of insanity allowed by the statutes. Clapin,
the smallest decimal of a Sergeant-at-Arms
ever seen in the House, has vivid nightmares
of the horrible doom in store if he should
forget the order of behavior prescribed for
the implement. The swank is absurd, but
Johnson loves it.
* * * •
From a city consulting-room :
The world is very busy jazzing and money-
making and getting into mischief; and perhaps it
is too much to expect that it should have followed
the process by which the medical profession has cast
away the old shibboleths and awakened to v
new life, and, what is of more importance, has
made the powers that be interest themselves in its
renaissance. Formerly treated with scant ceremony,
the war has compelled even the Downing-street
autocrats to pay some attention to its worth and
qualities. The raising of Sir Bertrand Dawson to
the Peerage the other day is a case in point: this
is the very first occasion in British history on
which a practising physician, or surgeon either, for
that matter, has received such an honor.
* * * *
“Aek-I-Fuff”: Tom was his name. He
was 17 years old and had the most cheerful
grin I have ever seen. When he joined my
battalion his pay-book stated that his
attested age was 18 3-12 years. That grin!
Even after he had been with us nearly two
years, and despite a brace of wounds, he
still had it. In February, 1918, our estab-
lishment of Lewis-guns was increased and
Tom was made a corporal in charge of one of
them. In and out of the line he looked after
that L.-g. as if it was alive, and when the
Hun. attacked in March he got his chance to
use it. We were holding the railway line
not far from Dernacourt when the Boches
came at ns. It was just daylight and I
caught a glimpse of Tom as he lay over the
parapet pumping lead into the advancing
enemy with whole-souled satisfaction. The
Huns first hit him in the shoulder, but he
kept his gun going, and when he finally
dropped back into the trench he had seven
holes in him. Also, he still had his grin ! As
one of our officers bent over him he made his
last remark, “She’s a good gun, Mr. Brown.”
+ * * *
The Royal Princeling is to have a South
Australian horse to carry him round when-
ever it is necessary for him to stride a saddle.
The Military, after a search of the con-
tinent, more or less, decided on Bayard,
owned by Mrs. Suter, wife of S.A.’s dairy
expert. Bayard has had an unbeaten run
of successes during recent years at Adelaide
and Melbourne shows. He was wanted by
the authorities for General Birdwood’s hack,
and the owner turned down a big offer. Now,
though she will not sell him at any price,
she has agreed to lend him for the Prince’s
use while that young man is in Australia.
The horse was bred at Gawler, by W. Burns,
one-time chairman of the Gawler Jockey
Club.
* # * *
Romance may not be all that it was in
days when the world was wide. Yet, thank
heavens, this globe hasn’t quite got down to the
flat routine of small things—the dull round
of flies and cows and treeless plains! The
aeroplane race from the north to the south
of Africa is on. and one of the competitors,
Professor Mitchell, isn’t out for speed but
for investigation. So he is taking a circuit by
the forest country where the average grass
is 20ft. high and which “teems” with
Elephants, lions, leopards, antelopes, rhinoceroses,
hippopotami, giraffes, zebras, chimpanzees and
venomous snakes. The lakes and rivers swarm with
crocodiles and the forests are full of brilliant-
plumaged birds. The enormous sharp-pointed nests
of the white ant are 20 to 25 feet high.
That is something like “teeming.” The Cape
to Cairo railway only touches the tame
fringes of the strenuous country, yet even
there, when the engine-driver sees I'ons sit-
ting on the platform, he cancels that stop
and takes passengers on to the next town-
ship.
* * * *
“Haka”: We were taking the census, and
when it came to Henare’s religion there was
a deadlock. I explained that of the four
leadmg denominations in Maoriland the
Anglicans were the strongest and the
Methodists were the weakest. That settled
it. “I te sport, I gip te plurry Methodists
a go,” says Henare.
* * * *
“Canuck”: Sometimes it pays the Vic.
railways to let things go to the dogs, in a
manner of speaking. Lately one of a drove
of pigs fell through the rotten flooring of
Kilmore station, and Avas presently dis-
covered in a dark corner rooting among
some £5O Avorth of tobacco and cigarettes
Avliich had been “planted” Avith a view to
early removal. The Department will, if it
is wise, hire that swine and put him on its
“inA’estigation” staff.
THE BOEING MACHINE: “I didn't know it was so late —is that clock going?”
THE VICTIN: “Yes, I’m afraid it’s got the disease, too — going, going, going for hours.”
The last time Royalty wandered this way
Port Melbourne had nothing to grumble
about. Prior to the visit tAVO rows of
squalid-looking hov r els, one on each side of
the railway line betAveen the port and
Flinders-street, were hastily pulled down
and the sites transformed into plantations.
They called George “the house-knacker”
for years afterwards in those parts.
“Ex-Dig.”: When we brought the Hun
to a pause at Meteren, and the oppos ng
forces were panting at one another across
an indefinite area of No Man’s Land, a
farmyard rooster made the situation ridi-
culous by crowing lustily, day and night, in
the intervals of strafings. That bird was
responsible for the loss of three of our men
who went out looking for a feed of poultry;
and at least two Huns —one killed by a patrol
and the other captured’—finished their
interest in the war because of the absurd
bird. After a few days, however, the crow-
ing ceased; so, unless a chance shell scat-
tered its feathers, someone dined on poultry.
* *
“N.Q.”: It happened in Queensland just
before the war. The stationmaster of a
small inland tOAvn had had a
Jap arrested and I had to catch
an early train next day to be
on the spot by 10 a.m. to prose-
cute Nippon on behalf of the
Kailway Commissioners. The
Bench was composed of a
Spaniard (chairman) and a
German. The arresting police-
tnan was Irish. The chairman
read the charge in broken (very
much broken) English, and as I
had a job to follow him it is no
wonder that the unfortunate Jap
shook his head when the
Spaniard said, “How you plead,
eh?” This gave the Hun a
chance, and he cut in. in a
very severe tone, “Look here,
now, dig is a Breetish Court
of Yustice, und der no savvy
business vill not go down here.”
The bewildered Jap again
shook his head, and was there-
upon fined a pound. Could it
have happened outside the British Empire?
■ * *
“Copabella”: That pathetic Victorian un-
dertaking, the Great Ocean-road, despite the
attempt to attach to it a repatriation flavor
by calling it a war memorial, is appealing
limply for interment. A week or so back
the £760-a-year secretary resigned on the
plea that the Trust could not “stand” his
salary any longer, and trustees representing
the sections further out are standing from
under ready for the collapse. Not all the
promoters of the road were motorists or
patriots—some were small cocky settlers who
really needed a road, any old road, instead
of the bush tracks they had suffered for 40
years amid the Otway fastnesses —and most
of them wanted their own little bit started
first. People about Lome, fearing the trade
competition and vulgar week-enders of Gee-
long if a good road ran from that city to
their select — i.e., hard-to-reach —water'ng-
place, did not want the road at all. The
result Avas that the road was started several
miles from Anywhere and driven bush ward
toAvards Nowhere, so that no feelings would
be hurt nor subscriptions imperilled. A
camp of soldiers Avas dumped down amid the
scrub, and supplying “comforts” became a
social stunt among the patriots. As a result
a leaA’en of hard-cases got in among the
lads, which spread the doctrine that the
Great Ocean-road Avas a cross between a
picnic and camouflaged sustenc" ■. Work
greAv faint, and when successive soldier-fore-
men tried to put speed into it the hard-
cases ran them out of camp. Then the
Country Roads Board, supervising the con-
struction for the Trust, dropped to the joke
and suspended even the faint imitation of
AA’ork that bad been going on. Expenditure
to date, £5018; net result, x. Things,
therefore, are very middling, and it looks
as though Digger will go imcommemorated
—this way.
* * * *
“The Arcadian”: When the Broken Hill
mining cos. decided to show their apprecia-
tion of the services of the Diggers by pur-
chasing and renovating the Palace Hotel in
Argent-street at a cost of £17,000 and pre-
senting it to them, the local Bolshies were
HER PREY.
“I don’t like the way you speak of Charlie
as your intended. He’s not engaged to
you.”
“ No, hut I intend that he shall he.”
at a loss to explain away the generosity of
the capitalists who daily send scores of men
to lingering deaths in the hell-holes. Later,
when a gang of men with picks and shovels
was put on at the rear of the hotel to form
an unused portion of the Proprietary Co.’s
lease into a bowling-green, tennis-court,
cricket-pitch and park, also for the Diggers
use, the secret motive of the master-class
was disclosed. ‘‘lt’s going to be the home
of scabs,” the Avoi d was'passed round, “and
they’re going to dig a tunnel to connect the
pub with the mines.” And some boneheads
believed it.
WEALTHY WILLIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a stout young Willie-chap beneath a stun-
ning hat
That rakishly upon a brow of some dimensions sat.
His hair threw back the sunshine with the sheen of
new-mown hay;
A fat gold chain-across hte vest in shining splendor
lay;
His nose was pale and beautiful, his figure, seeming
strong,
Was richly clad. His mellow voice chimed like a
dinner-gong.
Beside him stepped a ladye with a red and ready
smile,
A really sweet and scrumptious bunch of swishlness
and style,
Glad-eyed and truly gracious—but, so far as I
could see,
With not one glance in passing for a humble bloke
like me.
In sombre heaviness of soul I murmured “Love-a-
duck!
These gilded, bally blighters seem to corner all the
luck I”
I saw the blighter later, when my kind heart bade
me stop
And drift on timid feet into a humming city shop
To buy my sister Emmaline a bit of birthday-stutf.
T saw the blighter, wavy-haired, behind a pile of
flui?,
All mannerly attention, with an eager, earnest air,
Sawing off yards of ribbon for a madam waiting
there.
VICTORIA.
0. L.


$
m
:
'
m
:
-
>S
st
&
111
ft
m
o
61=31*1
g§f9im
"m
HI
I f
»/m
m
..•••:
‘.'■‘•Vi
is
«
S
a*
£
1/
A
cr
V*.
A Million
Rubber Trees Are
Tapped Continually
in the East Indian plantations of
the United States Rubber Company.
Over five thousand young rubber
trees are planted there every day.
Over five million trees are now
under cultivation.
Imagine the extent of this scientific
production of rubber. It means the
finest foundation for the finished
rubber articles.
That is where good rubber comes
from. It goes into the many good
rubber products that bear the seal
of the United States Rubber Com-
pany —the world’s largest rubber
manufacturer. They are good be-
cause they have this good foundation
and because the forty-seven great
factories of the United States Rub-
ber Company are standardized to
ynaintain this goodness throughout.
UNITED STATES RUBBER COMPANY
(AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED,
Head Office: 53 York Street, Sydney.
Australian Branches: 130-2 William Street, Melbourne.
Bloor Court, off Currie Street, Adelaide.
New Zealand Branches: 72-4 Jervois Quay, Wellington; and
Christchurch.


Quality
In nothing does Quality count so much as
in Diamonds. STEWART DAWSON’S
are the largest cash purchasers of precious
stones in the Commonwealth, and the
stability of their Diamond Ring Values is
recognised by thousands of clients.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS.
Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
PERTH (Aust.).
REGENT STREET (LONDON).
STEWART DAWSON’S
Largest Jewellers of the Empire.
G 8 7 4—Fine
Quality Diamond
Cluster Ring, set in
Platinum and 18-ct.
Gold, £2O
K3ll—Dainty Two-
Stone Diamond
Crossover Ring, set
in Platinum and
IS-ct. Cold,
£lO/10/-
K3s2—Fine Quality
Diamond Crossover
Ring, set in Pure
Platinum and 18-ct.
Gold, £l7/10/-
K367—Fine Pearl
and Diamond
Cluster Ring, set in
Pure Platinum and
18-et. Gold,
£l2/10/*
R432—New Style
Diamond Cluster
Ring, set in Pure
Platinum and 18-ct.
Gold, £l5/10/-
K43o—-Beautiful
Design, set with
First Quality
Diamonds in Pure
Platinum and 18-ct.
Gold, £B5
m :
"Si 7sCcsr]U
K 923 —New Design
Cluster Ring, Finest
Quality Diamonds,
set in Pure Platinum
and 18-ct. Gold,
£35
Diamonds.
Call at any of the Stewart Dawson
Establishments and inspect their beauti-
ful assortment of Diamond Ring Designs,
which is continually being added to.
Remember only high-grade stones have a
permanent value.
All Diamonds set in Pure Platinum.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS.
Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRIST-
CHURCH, DUNEDIN (N.Z.).
HATTON GARDEN (LONDON).
STEWART DAWSON’S
Write for latest Catalogue.
From Frank Jay, an Australian journalist
in New York:—•
One of my investigations resulted in finding a
saloon-keeper dispensing a dandruff mixture at 2s.
a throw. He and his two bartenders couldn’t
appease appetites quickly enough. An undertaker
sold 20 barrels of embalming fluid at £7 a gallon,
and it had ail got into live stomachs before the
sly-grogger was tracked down. The owner of a
garage in Brooklyn sent his man to Manhattan
with 10 drums of wood alcohol for shipment to
England. The truck-driver had an enterprising-
friend who bought the liquid and put it into 21
barrels. The drums were filled with water and
duly shipped. They should reach England in a
few days. The barrels and alcoholic contents were
sold to saloon-keepers in Connecticut, where the
stuff 1 , just in time for the Christmas season, killed
over a hundred persons, sent twice that number
blind, and put many hundreds in hospitals. And
they say the worst is yet to come!
THE BENEFIT OF THE DOUBT.
THE MAN : “What makes you think she is
fast?”
THE WOMAN : “Oh, well, you see, nobody
knows anything about her.”
“Tas.”; As a native Vandemonian I threw
up my hat when I read that “Plain
English” compliment (B. 19/2/’2O) to the
Speck’s progressive ideas. Mention of the
fact that Tassie has no Hansard recalled
the days of my youth, when I was a red-tape
junior in the little island’s State Service.
When “The House” (it was always “The
House” in those days) was sitting it was
my painful and sticky duty to cut out the
debates of Parliament —both Houses —from
“the Murkry” and paste them in large
guard-books. This constituted Tasmania’s
Parliamentary Hansard for many years.
* * * *
“Silas Snell”: It happened in front of
t> ,i„
Buckley’s in Bourke-
streCt, in the most
crowded hour of the
afternoon. He was
standing beside me,
gazing with an avid
eye at certain articles
of gent.’s wear ex-
posed in the window,
when misfortune in
the shape of a small
woman descended
upon hind, and smote
him from behind with
a very serviceable um-
brella. Tli e woman
used the knob-end, and
when he turned in
amazement she smote
him again. This time
the blow cut his chin.
Again the woman
smote, and again, and
every blow was a
shocker. “T her e,”
said the woman, “I
promised you that,
didn’t I?” Then she
stamped on his toe
and passed on. The
man pulled himself
together, glanced
towards the road, and
said: “W e 11, I’m
d—d ! The infernal
camera-man is not
there, after a 11.”
Probably the attempt
to give the idea that
it was a professional
performance did not
deceive anybody, but
it was a game effort.
“R.W.J,”: When we first got over to
France the language was a mystery, and
half the shopping was done by pantomime.
My cobber and I got into a little grocery
store in Bailleul one winter evening in
search of honey. After several attempts to
make mademoiselle “compree.” my cobber
began tracing his finger through the air and
making a buzzing sound, intended to convev
the suggestion of a honey bee. The girl
immediately showed signs of alarm, and be-
fore we could prevent her had doused the glim.
She thought he meant that Fritz was up.
* * * *
“Y 1395”: A thoughtful Sydney suicide
was the man who got up early on a recent
morning, prepared his wife a cup of tea
and took it to her in bed, then went away
and hanged himself tidily in the bathroom.
But Sydney police records hold the
story of a man who was still more
thorough. Instead of leaviug his
hanging body to be a cause of dis-
turbance to his wife when she
arose, he sent an urgent note to
a doctor telling where he would In-
found hanging; and he had made
all arrangements for his funeral,
even to the ordering of the wreath
which he thought his wife would
like to put on his coffin.
* * *
“Wessel” : The remains of a brick-
building or two and a few traces of
trenches and fortifications are all
that are left of the old settlement
at Fort Dundas, on Melville Island
(N.T.), the first attempt by white
men to occupy Northern Australia.
The settlement lasted onlv for
three years, from 1824 to 1827: it
was transferred then to Raffles
Bay, on the niainland. and later to
Post Essington. While Fort Dun-
das still existed the Melville Island
abos. had very fair sport, stalking
any soldiers or convicts who went
into the bush, and they made good
practice with their spears.
* * *
From Hobart Mercury (19/2/’2O) :
Prero.—On February 18, at her residence, ‘ Sandy
Bay, the wife of V. J. Prero, a son (Fluke). Both
doing well.
Nothing to show whether it was acceptable
or not.
The yarn of an Australian woman home
from war-work:—
Sandy Selkirke, V. 0., was one of the Old Con-
temptibles. And laird of many Scotch miles. A
fine figure of a man, of great height and splendid
shoulders, with a skirl in his stride and a glance
in his eye that spoke of one obeyed. I would
rather walk up the street with him than I
would with a crowned king. Margaret his wife
is Scotch, too, and thrifty. Sand}' was over from
the Front on 48 hours’ leave. He, Margaret,
in a fur coat and chapeau of complete accordance
—“a decent fur coat saves one no end of dresses,”
says she —and I progressed together up Bond-street.
A little stir ruffled the street. Through it there
emerged a brass-hat, great and mighty, with a
record of splendid service. “Oh, Sandy,” I enthused,
“it’s English.” “Is it?” said Sandy, and stiffened to
the salute. Margaret clutched at his arm. “Don’t
see him, Sandy,” she gasped. “Don’t see him, the
brute! His shop sold me a pound of bad tripe!”
And Sandy, V. 0., did as he was told.
CONSOLERS.
“Y on are not the first girl Ted has been
engaged to.”
"A ever mind, darling—I’m going to be the
last.”
Tlie kill-joys seem to have got the tipper
hand again in Tassy, according to an advt.
in Hobart World (19/2/'2O) :—-
City op Hobart.
Notice is hereby given that the washing- of
motor-cars and vehicles, and the Washing of widows,
etc., by hose has been prohibited.
Yet even a wowser ought to know that
widows are all the better for being kept cool.
* * * »
“Hamer”: The tendency that left the
U.S.A. full of colonels after the Civil War
thrusts its foolish nose also into Australia.
Blithers, who does not tell everybody that
he was assistant-cook’s orderly,- is addressed
as “Sergeant” by friends, who, finding that
it flatters him and buys them drinks, go on
promoting him until he forgets that lie never
held the rank; and he will live and die
“Sergeant” unless he icily reminds some-
one that he was an officer. I know a man
who achieved his commission when a com-
mission was handed out after the Armistice
to almost anybody who was hoping for
one. He is now “Captain” as a regular
thing, and in a few months lie will be
“Colonel” if he isn’t “General.” Fortu-
nately Australians tire not smitten with the
craze for titles as badly as the Yanks ; and
when military titles are played with Aus-
tralians usually smile at the back of the
hand and think of how they are pulling tin-
leg of a vain ass.
“Cosmopolite”: The Australians are
slowly getting to be understood. A London
cable reports that “they have contributed
largely to a lasting improvement of the con-
dition of Port Said. ... Predatory guides are
greatly chastened. An English resident
explains that the guides never know when
they are likely to run against an Australian
in mufti.” Absurd though it may sound to
Australians, the Diggers were really the
wowsers of the ancient land in which so
many nationalities were represented through-
out the war. For centuries the big towns of
Egypt had been centres of exotic and hideous
vices. The Aussies who, at the worst, were
healthy, normal sinners, were revolted. The
“guides,” who are really the pimps of obscen-
ity-mongers, were the first to suffer. Tra-
vellers by P. and O. and Orient mail-ships
had endured their dreadful ministrations for
decades. It was the commonest thing in the
old days for a tourist, while walking with
some perfectly respectable female, to have
a sheaf of unspeakable photographs thrust
at him, or to be offered, in fairly good Eng-
lish, the hospitality of one or more infamous
resorts. “The Australian soldiers dis-
couraged such attention in a simple and
direct fashion characteristic of the breed. A
blow square on the jaw.” The Wazir-
burning stunt, which was held up at the
time as a prime example of the Australians’
villainy, was participated in by hundreds of
men with blameless records. Having seen
the place they considered that the fate of
Gomorrah was too good for it—which was
true. The shooting of the Wazir donkey,
u hose horrible turn ’ had been witnessed
by thousands of morbidly-inclined pre-war-
tourists, shocked officialdom in 1915. Halt'
a dozen Aussies paid the stipulated' fee of
£1 each and lodged as many revolver-bullets
in the animal’s head. The distracted pro-
prietor was told that there were plenty left
for him if he was unable to keep his grief
within reasonable limits. An English staff-
officer actually investigated the alleged “out-
rage,” and, though nobody was punished,
the deed was put to the credit of Australian
indiscipline and lawlessness. One of the
most stimulating sights I witnessed in Cairo
was that of a couple of painted dancing-
boys running a gauntlet composed of half
a dozen hefty Light Horse troopers armed
with Aussie whips. It was late at night
and the audience comprised some Tommy
M.P.’s as well as a crowd of panic-stricken
natives. Any normal white man who had
observed the loathsome graces of these
youths, as they gyrated in the pavement
cafes, must have enjoyed the entertainment,
as the Tommies obviously did.
* * • •
The imposition whereby would-be tenants
are prevailed upon to “buy the key” in
order to secure ingress to a house about to
be vacated is now being exploited in Mel-
bourne. “A nicely dressed little woman,
with blue eyes and brown hair,” has been
the most successful operative in the southern
suburbs. She would secure the key of a
vacant house from a decent agent, paying the
usual shilling deposit, trot off instantly
and advertise it for sale, and get what she
could for it next morning, usually two
pounds, or two-ten. The disclosure of the
scheme has made agents hard and cold
towards clients with brown hair and blue
eyes.
* * * #
“Greentape”: Vic. State servants are
beginning to regret the loss of Gordon
Garter, who enrolled them into a formidable
Federation and won them solid increases
and improvements during his long and loyal
rule. After Garter left, the Federation dis-
solved into sundry crude associations, which,
lacking organising genius, are slowly
succumbing to their own apathy and becom-
ing rest-homes for part-time officials. One
faction, composed mainly of female teachers,
still calls itself the Federation, but like the
others it lacks leadership. It will need
another Garter to bring the scattered frag-
ments together again, but no man with a
knowledge of Garter’s experience will care
to undertake the job unless Vic. State ser-
vants show a better spirit. So far they
seem, in the mass, incapable of generosity or
sacrifice, and so many grudge the coin to
finance their unions that only about 20 p.c.
of the men are financial members. They
even let Carter go without any recognition
of his devotion. According to Treasurer
McPherson, nearly half a million extra was
handed to them in the year 11)18-19, and
that was only one of the successes that
Garter achieved. Yet they wouldn’t even
buy him a ease of pipes or an egg-cruet
when sickness and disappointment drove him
to resign.
HOW THE ARGUMENT STARTED.
“But you will admit that my voice is
inspiring, dear?”
“Of course, darling! I think if I were a mm
it would make me leant to murder some-
one!”
THE OUTSIDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The graves have little grey stones,
And the fence runs down the hill;
And over the mounds and the bones
Grass nods at the wind’s will.
Within the fence and without
The little birds make song;
And the goats go round about,
But the grass on the graves is long.
They have made the fence well
And strained the barbed wire;
And the goats, bleating, tell
Of their baffled desire.
But without is one mound,
Low on the dip of the hill,
Nibbled and green and round
Where a goat may stand at its will.
The blessing ends at the fence—
Unconsecrated, the sod
Beyond the wires that are tense
Is beyond the pale of God.
And one lies sleeping there—
I know not the tale of the years—■
Left to the goats’ care
And the springtime’s tears.
Atheist, murderer, thief,
Or only a luck-lost fool?
The hot days wither the leaf,
But the couch of his rest is cool.
God’s mercy within the wire,
And the goats are bleating without;
And none says, “Come ilp higher”
To the bones that were left in doubt.
I look at the little grey stones,
And 1 look at the small green mound—-
Oh, lonely and outcast bones,
What rest have you found ?
Class and caste in the grave!
Shall earth give what the world denied ?
Nay, the hands Christ stretched to save
Are torn on the barbs that divide!
N.s.w.
D. M. W.


Meggitt Limited’s
SPECIALISED STOCK FOODS.
Even when natural pastures are
available, concentrates are essential
for maximum production.
The best results are obtained from our concentrated foods, containing the
proper proportions of protein, carbohydrates and fats.
By feeding @ Stock Foods, the Ideal Concentrate, as directed, greater
results will accrue.
INCREASE PRODUCTION.
BY RESULTS
IS CHEAPER.
Agents.'
-Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co., Queen Street, Brisbane; Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay, Et(l., 666 Bourke Street,
Melbourne; Messrs Clarkson, Limited, Bundle Street, Adelaide; Messrs. W. Adams & Co., King Street, Perth;
Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart.
FURTHER PARTICULARS FROM STOCK FOODS, DEPARTMENT A.
ijnseeoojlmbm
[Mi
V/ieboyon the bag
guarantees quality ”
HEAD OFFICE ‘IjG KING
ST SYIM-:Y(^rks-.PaiTamaita)
v wEGGI
UNafflOiiMQ||
r\EGGITT l to mw 5
PARRAMATTA ft


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Quf££|
,A#S
, Hotel
TARIFF \
w 12'- pep Day \
6'6 Bed & Break fash j
.*5 Swanston 51l
. Melbourne /
"King George IV
THE TOP_NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Trion”: “Cron” (B. 5/2/’2O) need not
nave gone to the Cape Verde Islands for his “uncon-
ventional fishermen.” Expectorating chewed raw fish
into the water and scooping up the brethren who
come to the feast has long been a practice among
youngsters after “yellow-belly” on the Double Bay
(Sydney) pier.
PROBABLE.
TALKATIVE BARBER: “I see Marconi and
other wireless experts believe someone
from another planet is trying to com-
municate with us.”
SUFFERING CLIENT: “Some barber, I
expect."
“Miranda”: I visited Taronga Park Zoo
(Sydney) the other day during my first trip south
for years, and on reading the card of introduction
to the alligator discovered that lie is not to be
met with in Australia. Will “MeNorth” and “Cape
Pork,” as fellow-exiles, contradict this? Or am
I to believe the saurian of the freshwater holes in
the Upper Mitchell and elsewhere is identical with
our cattle and horse terror of the salt-water arms
in the Gulf? I have shot dozens of the former
and several of the latter, and if one of the two
is not an alligator, I’m a mug. I would sooner, by
(he way, go swimming with the freshwater croc, than
with the ’gator of the saltpans.
“Ida D.” ; The only deaf-and-dumb black-
fellow 1 have ever seen was Bijinook, who lived
on Monaro (N.S.W.). He had not seen any of my
family for many years, nor me at all. But wher
I was taken to interview him. being then growr
up, he stooped and drew the family s cattle brand
on the dust, then held his hand out with a large
grin. He knew every brand in his district, and
that was how lie identified people.
“Timo” : As the Commonwealth’s cham-
pion all-round horseman I nominate IV. R. Carver,
horsebuyer for Gilder Bros., Muswellbrook (N.S.W.).
Though a strong man physically and weighing over
14 stone, lie never uses violence in handling a horse.
I recently saw two sturdy
•station-hands pulling a colt
about without much suc-
cess, when Carver hopped
into the c'ard. He slipped
a bit into the colt’s mouth,
hopped on bareback and pro-
ceeded to mouth him from
on top. He and another well-
known horseman recently
had a wager as to which of
them could have a colt
ridden in quickest time.
Carver mounted his bridle-
less and bareback from the
rails before the other chap
had his colt caught. At
Inverell, about live years
ago, he had a match with
Ben Bridge. They were
to ride each other’s three
horses. Carver bet Bridge
£l5O to £lOO about him-
self. He rode Bridge's
tiiree in less than 15
minutes, while Carver’s
first horse threw Bridge 10
yards clear. He was the
only man to master
Martini’s famous Wild
Anglas. Carver always
rides in a poley saddle.
With his horses Hard
Times and Joker he last
year won the Gayndah, Esk
and Jinbil camp-drafting
competitions. He’s not
bad with the stockwhip
either. At Mundubbera the other day I saw him
cut 17 cigarettes from the mouth of a boy in as
many cracks.
“Vulcan”: That was a Hunnish trick of
“U.P.’s” (B. 5/2/’2O), removing one of Bill Wag-
tail’s offspring from (he nest for the entertainment
of his kids. The wagtail youngsters are packed into
the ridiculously small nest like sardines in a tin,
and it is more than likely that after temporarily
removing one of the brood they would never get
back into position again, with the consequent danger
of one or more falling overboard. On a jacaranda
in m3' garden a few feet from the ground a pair of
wagtails have now reared four broods in the same
nest, two last season and two this. The old couple
are quite friendly; that is, as friendly as such
independent cusses can be. It takes about two weeks
to hatch the eggs; then Bill and his missus both
graft from early dawn till dark stuffing insects into
the brood. In another two weeks the y'oungsters
are on the grass swinging their short tails and being
instructed in the mysteries of fly-catching. A few
more days and they are banished, and the old folk
start the performance all over again. Bill is guar-
dian of the home. Should a stranger trespass, he
arrives in a flash from nowhere and goes straight
for the intruder. It is amusing to see him manoeuvre
about a foot above and try a nose-dive. It is all
bluff, but astonishingly successful.
There is no trusting a hear, as Kipling
said long ago. He meant a Russian, but it is just
as true about the other kind. Samuel May was hosing
the polars at Adelaide Zoo one hot morning lately,
when one of them clutched him through the bars.
The Director found him lying well away from the
cage, with his right arm below the elbow gone. It
was never found. May died the following da3’. Bears,
Director Minchin says, are the most treacherous of
beasts. “You know where 3'ou are with the lions
and tigers, but these fellows will come and take
a biscuit out of your hand one da\', and put out
their paw sideways and slap at you the next.” It
is the first fatality to take place at Adelaide Zoo,
but May himself, an old and experienced attendant,
had been badly bitten once before.
“Centurion”: “Mimosa” (B. 12/2/’2O)
loftily contradicts my comments on the Australian
horses in South Africa and the S’nai campaign. He
says I “lose ground as an authority” (which I don’t
claim to be) in saving the Westminster Dragoons
and Indian Cavalry horses had long spells in
Egypt. He adds that the W.D. mounts were
“picked” by himself from horses that had been
“two years in India” and had “originally come
from Australia.” I saw the W.D. horses in Alex-
andria late in 1915, when the regiment was going to
tackle the Senussi. They were the typical, clumsy,
half-bred British hackney “cows” seen in such
British regiments. In October, 1916, with other
E.H. officers, I was at Zeitoun cavalry school. We
used the W.D.’s horses in our work and they were
the same brutes I had seen at Alexandria. At El
Arish in 1917 they were the same. When, then, did
“Mimosa” pick the mounts of a whole regiment ?
And why, seeing that it had some of the finest
horsemen in Britain in its own ranks?
: The sticks “Harrington”
(B 29/1/ 20) talks of are probably from the yapun-
3 ah, a native of the Paroo channels. I have seen
™ a "7 v a rn ° b .,, of f k 'f. s saf e behind the rails of a
■ todjard limit of this wood, and have also seen
"° od °T lly an inch thick in good
never In' n? LT' * “ Han ' in^on -” 1 ha '’e
seen this timber growing east of the Darling,
~A r . * * *
Airs. Ounce Itawson : Both sheep and
cattle when d3'ing of heat and thirst are given to
piling themselves one on top of another. During
the big Queensland drought, between Barcaldine and
Longreach 400 bullocks travelling to market died
on the road, first throwing themselves into heaps,
THE BALLY WAR AGAIN.
ZAC (to Slack, who has been bragging about
his travels ): "Bay, ever been in
France ?”
SLACK: “No; couldn't get there. Some bally
thing or other on."
At one place where 4000 sheep had perished a thunder-
storm broke the week following, filling a lagoon and
causing the grass to spring up as if it was a wheat
field. It grew through the eye-sockets and the
dried skin, and the winds and birds carried the wool
over a radius of several miles. It hung in strands
and small bits and shreds from every twig and
every tall grass-blade till the spot looked like a
picture of Fairyland. Five months later the drought
had again reduced it-to a Golgotha, grass and water
had dried up, and the bones and skins of the 4000
■sheep lay scattered around in the dust.
“Magnet”: For the place of honor in
Topsyturvydom surely Australia takes
all the votes. I was wandering round
in a half-agricultural half-dairying
and fairly-wild corner of Gippsland
lately when a meagre little bush home
was pointed out to me as holding
Australia’s best collection of butter-
flies. I was quite prepared to find an
enthusiastic amateur with the usual
glass-lidded collar-box, or perhaps two
collar-boxes, full of grubs; but when
through the courtesy of a fellow fresh-
air seeker I was introduced to a
man who could pass for a High Court
Judge, I just looked round for a
soft spot to collapse on. Butterflies?
There they were by the hundred—
from the Great Emperor gum-moth to
the tiniest moth-thing that flies. And
they weren’t only there; they were
named and classified with the meticu-
lous care of the specialist who works
for the love of his work. Tray after
tray brought forth new wonders ; fresh
interests ; and when the last tray was
put back in its numbered place one
last marvel remained —the home that
held them. Kerosene cases and genius
met there in a cabinet that could
hold its own with some of our city
house-fixings. But the thing that
amazed one was why this man is going
to waste when our museums are cry-
ing to Heaven for just such a collector
and such a collection. He prunes orchard trees for
a rather thin crust.
“Bromide”: “Immature Male” (B.
29/l/’2O) was probably right when he blamed the
Portuguese man-o’-war for the uncomfortable itch
experienced by Sydney surfers. The long streamers
which carry the stinging glands, or nematocysts,
can become detached. In the absence of the beastie
itself, the swimmer is naturally at a loss to explain
the stinging. The best treatment at the time is
to rub sand on the affected part. If the sting per-
sists, try the blue-bag or cloudy ammonia.
“3802”: I think the timber “Harrington”
(B. 29/l/ : 20) refers to is generally known as
“loopania” or “lapinia,” and is found, to my know-
ledge. all over Eastern Australia, always on stony
ridges or in rough country. A stick l}in. in dia-
meter will last longer and stand more heavy-weight
pulling when used as a swingle-bar than any other
timber twice the thickness, and it makes good axe-
handles. “Harrington” says he has seen only one
of these trees east of the Darling. Well, he can find
tons of it around Gunnedah and other places in
N. S. Wales, as well as in Victoria and Queensland.
* * * *
“Azac”: “C. Coral” (B. 5/2/’2O) omitted
perhaps the most valuable of native local fruits
the Australian nut ( Macadamia temijolia). It is
also called the Queensland nut, and is found all
over Southern Queensland, and as far south as Port
Macquarie and even occasionally on the Blue Moun-
tains. It is not unlike the walnut, though the
shell is smoother and more spherical, while the fruit
is almost as rich as the cocoanut. Sometimes they
can be purchased in city shops under the name of
poplar-nuts. They are also grown in Honolulu, and
of late years experiments have been carried out
with the object of developing a softer shell. The
tree is an evergreen, and very ornamental.
“Camelero”: “G.S.” (B. 22/l/’2O) is sen-
sible in refusing to name the best Australian horse-
man in Palestine. Each regiment claimed to have
men who could ride anything that ever carried a
military saddle. Still, I reckon that Sergeant Jack
Dempsey would have held his own with any man
in the Light Horse. “G.S.” referred to Billy Sing,
the well-known Gallipoli sniper, as one of the bed
rifle-shots in Palestine. Sing never saw the Holy
Land. He transferred from the Light Horse after
(he Evacuation and went to France with the first
body of infantry. Furthermore, he was not a
kangaroo-shooter before enlisting, but earned his
tucker at general bush work. Incidentally, kangaroo-
shooters who enlisted turned out, as a rule, rotten
shots when they faced the targets. Finally, I
question if Sing ever saw the Turkish woman sniper
“G.S.” states he (Sing) captured on Gallipoli.
It was a body of infantry that found the lady hiding
under a bush near Courtney’s Post.
* * * *
‘‘Lou": I disagree with the rule which
says it's best to feed a sheepdog only once every
21 hours and keep him tied up when not, working.
On a Murniinbidgee station all hands did that but
1; my dog lunched when I did, and went out with
me whether there was work to do or not. The other
dogs were footsore and played out after a couple
of hours around a mob of sheep, while my fellow’s
feet were hard and he was well stayed inside, and
would be working cheerfully when theirs were trot-
ting in the shade of the horses. I know I was
regarded as a newehum with queer ideas. But that
doesn t alter the results. While I’m on my feet
let me unburden myself of a few questions: Why
do horses rush back into a burning stable? Why
do sheep leap over nothing? And how does an emu
sometimes* conceal its tracks about 100 yards from
the nest ? Docs it walk on tip-toe, fly or jump over
the last bit ?
* * * *
“Owen M.” : Some of our modern verbose
writers can learn a lesson in brevity from the Binghi
family. Here is a ditty I heard an old lubra croon-
ing in Northern Bananaland :
Big pheller my budgaree some pheller been takem,
lou go alonga dis way, mine go alonga dat way;
Byanbye me findem down alonga tree,
Then my budgaree come alonga me!
WHEN IT HURTS MOST.
“It's dreadful the way the cost of food is
rising.”
”Yes, especially when you raise it yourself.”
‘‘Kid-0” : How’s this for the longest root
of any vegetable in Australasia? Ran the tape over
a quandong root, and it measured 108 ft. 2in. Depth
varied from four to nine inches.
(Continued on page 22.)
LEANIN’ ON THE PUB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I have nothink else to do —
Which offen ’appens now —
I likes to join a pal or two
Aneath the Apple Bough.
There’s Mike, and Mick, and ’Oppy Ford,
And Ned, and Yaller Chub,
We ranges up with one accord,
And feels as ’appy as a lord,
A-leanin’ on the pub.
Inside it’s better to collect,
Where there is booze to snare,
And sometimes when we least expect
Good forchin finds us there ;
But meanwhile all the shady wall
With shoulder blades we rub,
And give the little toms the call,
Or watch the golden leaflets fall,
A-leanin’ on the pub.
We watch the trams go surgin’ past,
And see the little blokes
All huvryin’ so hot and fast —-
Gorstruth, they’re livin’ jokes
To Chub and me, for on the side
We gets enough fer grub;
And nothin’ matters mucx), pervide
You on’y. takes a proper pride
In leanin’ on the pub.
On red bricks of ilie Apple Bough
Our ’istory is writ
Of strikes we’ve been in up to now;
Our fame’s set forth on it.
The lorries they go creakin’ past,
We hear the screamin’ hub,
And smokes our fags a boshter blast.
Let ’orses work, man’s nobly cast
For leanin’ on a pub!
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


When the mine fizzles out —the
Oxy-Acetylene Process saves
something out of the “wild cat.”
DOWN, down, down go the shares, and then up goes the mine.
The staff depart, the shareholders say good-bye to their
money, and the machinery sets out to rust and rot in horrible
isolation.
Anyone who has gone into mining country is familiar with rusted
poppet-heads and deserted sheet-iron piles which often hold good
machinery. Too expensive to dismantle was the old cry, and so the
whole outfit was abandoned.
But things have changed. No longer do they talk about white
elephants” now that Oxy-Acetylene is on the job. Study the picture
on the left.
Fancy dismantling this network of metal by hand yet it was child s
play to A. L. West & Co., armed with an Oxy-Acetylene Blowpipe.
All the rivets in the structure were burnt out without harm to the
framework, and the structure is now ready for re-erection.
If you’ve got a job like this in view, Oxy-Acetylene will save you no
end of time and money. Write for particulars to
1
~3%k
: =
i -■
r^rr.
Oxygen
FOV vST BALMAIN
SADNEA • TST.-vS -W
<«
m
AGENTS :■
vvvif * STEWART 362 Collins Street, MELBOURNE; GEO. WIRES, 404 Grenfell Street,
“IdeIaIDE- EVANS DEAKIN & CO., 121 Eagle Street. BRISBANE; HARRISON BROS. &
CO ETD. 20 Patterson Street, EAUNCESTON; GEO. WIRES & CO., RTD., Murray Street
PERTH; BROWN & JOSKE, SUVA, FIJI. u * oo
WORRY GOES FROM THE
MIND WHEN MUSIC ENTERS
- - --- - =
"’Tvy ,X<-- ; ' 5 *
m
■ ■
The night shall be filled with music,
And the cares which infest the day
Shall fold their tents like the Arabs,
And silently steal away.
— Longfellow.
M
USIC in the house is a very practical way of supplying
entertainment in the evening—insuring restful sleep at
night and a clear mind and full energy for the next day s
task.
Music brings its blessing to
every member of the family.
EVERY HOME SHOULD CONTAIN SOME
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT.
A PLAYER PIANO will give every member of
the family the joy of actually producing the music
as well as the pleasure of listening to it.
There is no reason why anyone should be without music. The cost
is small compared to the great benefits derived, and our EASY
PAYMENT SYSTEM brings the purchase of a PLAYER PIANO
within the reach of all.
Your present piano can be taken in
exchange and its utmost value allowed.
Come in
and Let Us
Show this
instrument
to You.
BRANCHES:—
BRISBANE.
TOOWOOMBA.
NEWCASTLE.
LISMORE.
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.


PERMANENT
Trustee Company of N.S.W. Ltd.
Decide on a Trustee who not only offers wide experience, expert knowledge, and undivided attention to your affairs but
whose methods of charging Corpus Commission are such as to effect a big saving of your beneficiaries’ income
dhe Permanent Trustee Company does not make Corpus Commission charge till after estate becomes distributable This
very often results m a saving of income sufficient to defray the charge. ' '
Investigate this feature, unique to this Company.
Call or write for full details of the Company’s sound service and moderate charges.
ALFRED G. MILSON.
JAMES MOIR.
DIRECTORS:
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman).
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD. Manager.
J. W. Barnes, Assistant Manager
THOS.BUCKLAND.
O. E. FRIEND.
25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
“Expert Too”: Who first poisoned rab-
bits in Australia? It is 32 years ago since my dad
was instructed to “run a shallow furrow and place
therein handsful of poisoned wheat” on the old
Westford Estate (Tas.). Next morning the bag
was six rabbits and 32 sheep.
* * * *
“Deal Fair”: When a bee-tree is taken
in the bush the bees that aren’t killed by the shock
of the fall or in the later excitement are mostly left
to shift for themselves and find another tree if they
can. I have seen a better way tried in the Speck,
After the honey had been chopped out a few sheets
of bark made the nest about as good as ever, and
the little busy bees, or what were left of them,
collected inside and went to work getting in the
winter tucker.
“L & Tommy”: I don’t know whether a
kangaroo has ever killed a man, but a cobber of
mine, Bill Fagan, had a close call in 1908. We
were fanning in the south-west of W.A., and ’roos
were numerous. One evening Fagan was coming
home from the township, accompanied by a valuable
dog, an expert hunter. The dog suddenly took to
the scrub, and shortly afterwards Bill heard him
barking and then whining. Bill concluded that
the dog had cornered a ’roo and was getting the
worst of it, as no dog has much of a chance against
an "old man” in the dark —and the light was then
failing fast. Fagan rushed in and, in his anxiety
to save the dog, got too close to the marsupial,
which drew him in. Then commenced an all-in
wrestling match. The kangaroo, which had the
HIS POINT O,F VIEW.
“Shocking! And at such a low altitude, too!”
advantage in height and strength—although Rill
stands 6ft. 2in. and is a powerful man—wanted to
get his capture at the right distance to enable him
to bring those powerful hind toes into action for a
belly-rip. Fagan knew his only chance was to keep
in close until he could so free himself as to jump
clean away. Bill reckons they struggled for hours,
but the contest probably took about 10 minutes,
although the appearance of the ring next morning
left no doubt as to its strenuousness if Bill’s appear-
ance hadn’t proved it. He was getting weaker and
the ’roo more annoyed, when the man accidentally
got his thumb in the animal’s eye. This so rattled
the ’roo that Bill broke clear, and his bosom com-
panion seemed satisfied to let it go at that. Bill
arrived home very rocky—his clothes were torn to
■shreds and he had nasty scratches all over his back.
It was not till years afterwards that he could trust
himself to speak of the smell of that kangaroo.
A DRY JOB.
THE TRACKER (picking up top of beer bottle ) : “Him sittem down here and have a
drink of beer. we better hurry, boss .”
THE TROOPER: “Why, what’s the hurry?"
JACKY AGAIN : “He drink all the damn beer!”
“Dog Crusoe”: The natives away out in
the extreme north-west of S. Australia and the
adjacent part of Westralia, about the Everard and
Musgrave Ranges, make a mild tipple by steeping
the leaves of a large scrub-mulga—the same from
which the honey-ants collect the “honey” which
they store in the distended abdomens of certain
ants selected as animate honey-jars. These Binghis
used sometimes to collect (and perhaps do still) a
sticky white substance from the under-surface of
the leaves and put it in water, where it hardens
like stone and is used for making spearheads, the
queerest material ever employed for that purpose
in Australia. One tribe out there used as a
narcotic a kind of snuff made from a wild tobacco.
Some of the very few white men who have been in
(hat region reckon it to be a cousin of the true
tobacco. If so, the good Lord only knows how it
got there.
* * * *
“Trion’ : This should finish the argument.
S. E. White, of Merribindinyah station, Bethungra
(X.S.W.), recently mustered a mixed lot of merinos
and crossbreds which had been “wandering in the
wilderness” for four years. The earmarks fixed the
date. The fleeces were unbroken and the sheep in
good condition. One crossbred fleece was 20in. long
and weighed 741 b. ; and the merinos also had long
and fine wool.
* * # *
“Yarrum”: Talk about luck! The three
Backhouse boys were camped and stripping wattle-
bark on the Tantawanglo Mountain (N. S. Wales
South Coast). One of them made a soda cake; but
next morning it was missing. They tracked it for
some distance, and came upon seven-eighths of it
and a blackfellow’s dead dog. Arsenic, used for
curing skins, had been mixed in mistake for
baking-powder. The boys would have consumed the
damper the night before, only they were out of
butter to go with it.
* * * *
I nominate the she-oak as the
slowest-burning timber in Australia. Have had my
eye on one that has been burning for two months,
and the fire hasn’t bitten more than 6ft. of it to
date.
» * * - *
“Ida D.” ; Why is it that lightning usually
strikes a green tree ? In our last big storm several
green trees were struck and splintered while much
taller dead trees near by were untouched. It is (or
used to be) taxight to school kiddies that lightning
always strikes the highest object; but this does not
hold good with forest trees. One tree was a curious
sight; the lightning had evidently struck it spirally,
and had stripped the bark clean from trunk and
limbs. The bark was not splintei'ed, but lay in
almost whole sheets on the ground, and the wet,
sappy body looked just as though it had stepped
from its bath.
"Melos”: I object to “Riverina’s” libel
(B. 22/l/’2O) on Black Brother’s quality as a musi-
cian. Binghi knew that a “chora” fashioned from
a hollow reed gave better results than a “flute
w hit tied from the shinbone of a defunct enemy.”
Between his lips a gum-leaf or a piece of wood
with a cleft in it gave forth soulful strains such as
one might expect from a violin in the hands of
a skilful player. A favorite instrument at the old-
time eorroboree was a tambourine made by stretching
’possum skin over a circular wooden frame. This,
with the yamstick, provided the main part of the
accompaniments at the musical festivals. Binghi
may not shine in oratorio, but he certainly excels”in
vaudeville. Shannon, an old news-runner, once visited
a Highland gathering; and when introduced to
McTavish and the pipes, remarked: “Him pfella
tinkit plurry smart.” Returning to his brethren
he demonstrated how the Scot had deluded the people.
Seizing a half-grown pup, he thrust it in a bag
and poked its legs and tail through holes. Then
he put the animal’s tail between his teeth, and,
tucking its body under his arm, goose-stepped
around, wheezing and droning, while the dog yelled
its disapproval.
“Budgerygar”: Put this in the book with
the other big-gun records. On a line of fencing Ada-
vale (West Q.) way, Chris Larsen, a Swede, put
up 417 posts in a day. The sinking was certainly
good. Price for the job was at the rate of 325.
6d. per 100, or nearly seven frogskins for his day’s
toil.
* * * *
Yarrnm” : Unlike the rabbit, the wombat,
although a fast breeder, is one of the slowest critters
we have. But he is quickly spreading himself over
territory where until lately he was quite unknown.
At Kiama (N.S.W. South Coast), the Pastures Pro-
tection Board is asking other Boards to co-operate
for his extermination; and at Yalway a millionaire
cocky thinks so badly of the digger, who roots out
and tears the rabbit-proof fences, that he is adding
a half-dollar to the 10s. offered by the Goulburn
Board for the destruction of the pests.
* * * *
“The Ant”: What can you do in those
luial places to which the medical profession exiles
you but eat and sleep? I had eaten and was sleep-
ing in my clothes, regardless of the fact that my
night’s slumber would be ruined. The sound of
levelry awakened me. The Babcocks were giving a
party. But what concerned me most was the con-
sciousness of a “presence” such as is dwelt upon in
a certain class of literature. The room was very
dark; a low verandah and a thick blind excluded
any ray that might have entered from without.
Although it was only about half-past eight, I had
all the damp, creepy symptoms that belong rightly
to the hour when graveyards yawn. The fearsome
thing made unwieldy movements. I could see it
only as a darker something in the general darkness—
an immense, hideous shapelessness that made champ-
ing, grinding noises. I decided to risk all in a
dash for the open. I found Babcock on the front
verandah. He held me. “S’pose you ain’t in a
hurry goin’ to ted?” said he. “Fact is we had
Perry’s bull over here”—everybody in the district
stole the loan of Perry’s bull—“and Perry come along
ragin’ about it. He’s here yet, swearin’ we have
took possession of his animal, and threatenin’ to
play the devil. So I had Henery sneak him where
Perry would never think of lookin’—into the bes’
bedroom.” This explained everything. I occupied
the Babcocks’ best bedroom.
“Jack L.”: Concerning the controversy as
to who was the first European to view a kangaroo,
John Lang, in his “Story of Captain Cook” (P. 62)!
says: “Curious-looking animals were seen, and some
were afterwards shot, which Mr. Banks learned from
the natives were called kangaroos. This was the
first time that kangaroos had ever been seen by
white men.” That is not conclusive, for it is almost
certain that Dampier had made the ’roo’s acquaint-
ance long before. Long, in his “Stories of Aus-
tralian Exploration,” commenting on the word
“racoon,” mentioned by Dampier, says: “The racoon
is an animal of the West Indies, where Dampier
had spent some years. He describes here, no doubt,
the small kangaroo that is common in the neighbor-
hood of Sharks Bay.”
* * » •
“Norgate”: Should “Ginger Mick” and
his cobbers want an elaborate and permanent tobacco
moistener, here are the plans and specifications:
Drill a small hole through the lid of the jar or tin
and through it pass a loop of string holding a moist
sponge. Then tie the string in a knot above the
hole.
* * * *
“Paul C.” ; Can any Abo.-ite explain why
a dingo disembowels a rabbit before commencing his
meal, and discards tire innards altogether? A tame
dog will eat everything. Is it because instinct
tells the wild dog that the tripe might contain poison,
or is it that lie is more particular about his menu
than his tame brother ?
“Ida D.”: Birds make nests in strange
places. I’ve found a ground lark’s nest in an old
jam tin; and driving down Lord’s Hill, on the
road from Delegate to Bombala (N S.W.), I saw
a magpie’s humpy built on a heap of road metal.
The lady was sitting in it on two eggs, but flew
off screeching when I investigated. In wooded hills
about two miles off many other members of the
tribe were breeding. This dame had evidently quar-
relled with her family or taken the wrong turning,
and been cast upon (he cold world.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: It strikes me that
“Senex” (B. 5/2/’2O) was ultra-particular for the
third mate of a Spaniard when he turned down
canned calamares. Once when I made a voyage in
a Spanish tramp our grub was mostly bacalao and
salchichas, made of sawdust, red pepper and stale
Chicago “lard” in about equal parts, and rice,
porotos and fideos salved from the Ark, each platter
being freely garnished with cockroaches, bugs and
Such-like appetising frills. We hadn’t any English
aboard except “aw-w-raight,” and “son-or-a-
beechiz.” The old man was just plain hog, and
the rest of us were little better when our pilgrim-
age ended. The ship and her company were in such
an insanitary condition that even the far-from-
particular authorities of Caldera imposed a day’s
swabbing down and disinfecting on all hands and
the cook before negotiating further with us.
O.B.U.
Calamares are good after you take the first plunge,
and the dried octopus sold by most Nap and
Gallego storekeepers, when properly stewed a la
h’spanola, is good enough for anybody but a con-
firmed sybarite. A blind sybarite would probably
bawl for a second helping.
the camp concertina.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He fingers it with worn and tender touch,
The grey-haired miner, dreaming overmuch
Of the flame-days of laughter and red song
When he was young and heart and body strong.
And, through his half-closed lips, lie seems to say,
As some M.C. upon a happier day,
“Ladies to the centre. Turn and swing,”
Ah! the whirl of that rainbow ling!
Between the dancing camp-fire’s ruddy lights
He sees again the mad and merry nights
When round the old bush-hall with flying feet
ltose Youth and Love a happy measure beat.
Ah! Mary’s eyes were grey and very kind,
A gentle woman with a simple mind—
“ Gents to the right. Turn and swing again,”
Sweet the dream of an old love-pain.
The keys are broken now, the dancers still;
No magic can the painted leather spill
O’er christening gatherings and weddings gay.
Joy from its loosened stops has slipped away;
But, in his throat, old words he tries to croon
And fumbles weakly for a-plaintive tune —
“Choose your partners for the last dance, please”
Lights are out and the strain’s a wheeze.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.


# %
ftltmie mmfrrtiS.
CIGARETTES
'TpHERE’vS luxury in the flavor
and aroma oj f “STATE
EXPRESS.” They are good to
the very last —a test few cigar-
ettes can emulate. Leaf of
the hig'hest quality, pure
paper and perfedt methods of
manufacture make them the
“ONLY CIGARETTES WORTH WHILE.
9 9
Obtainable of all high-class tobacconists and stores
throughout A ustralasia .
Sole Manufacturers :
ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD.. LONDON.


The most reliable name-
plate in the farm-engine
World.
o
NO.
FAIRBANKS,
MORSE & CO,
R.P.M.
PATENTS APPLIED FOR
m
I^.,
Illlillllllllll 111 1111 M
I
■
The farm-engine
of unlimited uses
THE Type “Z” comprises all the good points of all
engines plus many exclusive features.
You want an engine that starts when you want it, and
Built-in Magneto assures that.
You want an engine that switches from one job to
another without jibbing or pulling up. The Throttling
Governor prevents that.
You want an engine that feeds itself with fuel without
bothering you.
You want an engine that uses Kerosene without need
for always pulling the engine down to clean valves and
plugs.
In fact you want an engine with a “Z” name-plate on
it. “A wonder at the price.” Full stocks of 13, 6,
10 B.H.P. available. Write to nearest of following
agents for prices and booklet:—
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD.. 9-13 Young Street, Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
J. BARTRAM & SON PTY., LTD., 583-586 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., 99 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
MALLOCH BROS., 52-54 William Street, PERTH.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD., HOBART.
The Small Family
Havelock Ellis, whose volume of Philo-
sophy of Conflict and Other Essays in War-
time has been published by Constables, has
a profound and long-needed contempt for the
doctrine that the essentials of progress and
proofs of vitality are a big birth-rate and a
constant increase of population in a world
that grows no bigger. Within the 100 or
110 years in which the taking of censuses
has been fashionable, the white man has
increased on an average at least fourfold,
which means that he has done three times
more slum-creating in that time than
in the millions of years before. This is
largely because medical science has done
marvels in preserving the unfit. Also within
a few centuries the science of war has been
revolutionised. At one time two kings could,
for £lO,OOO, get up a battle which wiped
30,000 people off the bread-list. Now it
may cost, counting the original price of the
gun and the price of haulage and the
ammunition and the depreciation, £lO,OOO to
fire a big shot which merely misses a hen
worth 3s. (id. Furthermore, by pious and
strenuous missionary effort towards the aboli-
tion of tribal wars, tribal dirt, slavery, sleep-
ing sickness and cannibalism, a vast increase
has been made among the uncivilised peoples
whose censuses are only recent. So the
nations with food to sell grow fewer and the
nations that want to buy food multiply.
The nations with the supremely big birth-
rates are, in their order, Russia, Roumania,
Bulgaria, Serbia, Hungary, Italy, Austria,
Spain, Finland and Germany. One was an
ally who collapsed with the collapse of ages.
Two were allies who had a bad time. Three
were enemies who were defeated. The
indomitable fighter who never showed the
white feather was France, and in France
the birth-rate is just a shade ahead of the
death-rate. Therefore there are doubts about
the theory that either supreme happiness or
supreme power lies in multiplying people so
that everywhere six will have to sleep in one
bedroom and be joyful, instead of everybody
or every two having an apartment' and
dying of loneliness.
There has been some talk, in Germany and
elsewhere, of a temporary resort to poly-
gamy, because the war has reduced the num-
ber of possible husbands and the birthrate
may suffer from a superfluity of spinsters.
Against this Havelock Ellis remarks that
the polygamous races ought to have over-
run the world if a man with three wives
had three times as many children as a man
with one wife, instead of which they have
faded into the background. When the
Hebrew patriarchs were polygamous the
Jewish race remained a small affair, and it
only began to spread when they gave no
the much-married habit. Solomon is a strik-
ing instance, for he had 700 wives and 300
best-girls and only one Rehoboam, who
wasn’t much of a Rehoboam at that.
There is a good deal of miscellaneous wis-
dom in Havelock Ellis’s book as well as a
good deal of piffle. But when he draffs in
the statement that the real name of Ellis
Barker, who also writes essays, is Eltzbacher.
it seems like throwing a brick of personal
spite at a rival.
The Poet in the Garden
Long ago the poet planted beautiful words
in his garden. So exquisite were the names
of some of his flowers that for ages many
who were not poets made noises that were
almost like poetry by the use of terms such
as rose and lily and daffodil. The gardener
loved the words tenderly; but the horticul-
turist came and displaced the gardener and
determined that there should be no poetry
about his herbaceous borders. He brought
along the new names and used them as a
club to beat the poet out of the place of
flowers. True, the rose and lily and even
the daffodil remained, but the rhymesters,
who only knew what they were by studying
the patterns on wallpaper, had long ago
degraded the beautiful words by setting them
to the ceaseless task of holding up common-
place lines and overworked thoughts. Now
if the poet would try to sing of the newer
beauties of the garden he would have to get
off something like this :
Aquilegia grandiflora in the dew
Bows to Acroclinum Album where it sways;
And Delphinium Formosum lifts its blue
’Mid the flaming of the Antirrhinum’s praise.
Celosia, with its tufted crimson mane,
Finds Dianthus Heddewegii asleep.
Sighs Chrysanthemun Inodorum in vain
If the Digitalis Gloximoides weep ?
No; it doesn’t sound like an honest state-
ment. These horticultural terms seem as if
they had bombs hidden about them some-
where. Try it again :
The columbine is nodding in the dew
To the silver shining daisy where it sways;
And the king of all the larkspurs lifts its blue
’Mid the tall snapdragons flaming forth their praise.
The cockscomb, with its tufted crimson mane,
Finds the fringed and dappled pink is still asleep.
Shall the prize of autumn gardens sigh in vain
If the foxglove through it's spotted bells should weep?
It isn’t quite satisfactory even now, for those
terms are a bit indefinite. The reader who
didn’t know that Delphinium was a lark-
spur might be left guessing as to whether
the “king of all the larkspurs” meant a new
variety just hybridized or a horticultural
person with a name like Heddeweg whose
features had a blue tinge in the sweetness
of the morning. Why doesn’t some honest
seedsman employ a poet to write his trade
catalogue? Wisely done, it would increase
his sales 50 per cent.
D. M. W.
A Satchel of Books
Wayside , by Jessie Urquhart (Angus and
Robertson, Sydney). This is not the great
Australian novel which is still being looked
for. But if it has not the great virtue, it
has not any great vice. There is nothing
much wrong with it except that it is con-
ventional in language and matter. Wayside
is an Australian township, but not very
Australian- there is no feeling of the bush
about tile tale, and the characters don’t stay
in the memory. Still, many readers will fol-
low the narrative with pleasure.
Beaumaroy Home from the Wars, by
Anthony Hope (Methuen, London). Around
a mystery yarn of an old man who becomes
insane and thinks he is the Kaiser Anthony
Mope tells the love-story of Dr. Mary and
Beaumaroy. It isn’t very much of a story,
but there are a few characters which con-
vince, though Beaumaroy himself doesn’t
make any very striking appeal. Dr. Mary,
in point of fact, seems to make only a
middling selection of a life-partner, and any-
body can see there will be trouble.
The Long Chance, by Peter B. Kyne
(Hodder and Stoughton). A yarn of the
American desert, with much gun play in it.
The work is curiously uneven, but the book
holds the interest well. The characters are
fairly well drawn, and most of them are at
heart good. Even the arch-villain ends up
decently in spite of liis crimes. Some of
the pictures of the desert are also rather
fascinating.
A Critic in Pall Mall, by Oscar Wilde.
This is a collection of papers, mostly book
reviews, which reveal Wilde at his second
best as a charming writer of honest com-
ment. Every line is worth reading and a
good deal of it worth remembering. Tastes :
They show a want of knowledge that must be the
result of years of study.
It is only mediocrities and old maids who consider
it a grievance to be misunderstood.
Even the most uninteresting poet cannot survive
bad editing.
The publication of his book in English two thou-
sand years after his death is obviously premature.
The nineteenth century may be a prosaic age,
but we fear that, if we are to judge by the general
run of novels, it is not an age of prose.
George Meredith’s style is chaos illuminated by
brilliant flashes of lightning.
Whom Love Hath Chosen, by Mrs.
Patrick Mac Gill (Herbert Jenkins, Lon-
don). A simple story of an inventor V.C.
and the faithfulness of liis sweetheart, who
sticks to him when, through the theft of
his formula, things go wrong. The book
doesn’t matter, but is, nevertheless, sure of
a certain popularity.
The Untamed by Max Brand (Putnam,
New York). There is power in this book
and even a little wild poetry, but more gun
play and sudden death. Whistling Dan
Barry, his stallion Satan and his black
dog Bart are, with heroine Kate, the chief
characters. Lots of desperate things happen
—interesting, but not easy to believe.
The Man Who Broke the Rule, by May
Edginton (Cassells). A book that is cheap
and nasty about a man who married for
his wife’s money and could not marry the
other girl after her death because of a
clause in the will. But he does marry her
in the end ; and as it doesn’t matter in the
least whether he does or not the reader
won’t be provoked to cheers.
Two Men, by Alfred Olivant (George
Allen and Unwin). Passages of this book
are beautifully written, but as a whole it
fails where so many others of its class
have failed—by trying to create an interest
in uninteresting people. Ruth is a large,
lovely girl who works in the Hohenzollern
Hotel at Beachbourne. She lias a baby
whose father is a captain staying at the
hotel; but. despite this circumstance, she
is sought in marriage by a lift-man and a
chauffeur. The lift-man gets her. The
characterisation is fairly good; but the
author offers very little to justify the book’s
existence.
The Study of Colonial History, by A. P.
Newton (S.P.C.Iv., London). A* useful
pamphlet which contains a mention of books
likely to help the reader who wants to know
how England grabbed portions of Asia.
Africa and America, as well as the steps by
which scattered settlements grew into the
big Dominions. Beyond the list of books
there is not much in this piece of “Christian
Knowledge” to turn handsprings over.
The Inky Way
London Bookman cherishes the old super-
stition of the “superior” English critic that
nothing really good can come out of Aus-
tralia. It simply has to praise David McKee
\Vright’s “Irish Heart’' —“a very pleasant
gift of writing . .a great love of color,
which he is able to get into his verse . . .
some delightful ballads . . . the wistful
melancholy of his Irish inheritance.” So
it. gets the inevitable sneer into a gratuitous
addition : “There is nothing Australian about
this pleasant book, except the flamboyant
reviews printed on the cover.”
Sydney Loch, who wrote the “Straits Im-
pregnable,” has settled in London and
dates his letters from the Authors’ Club in
Whitehall. He has met the novelist Morlev
Roberts, who 40 years ago helped to build
the bridge across the Murray River at
Ecliuca and worked on the old Mahonga
station north of Albury; lunched at the
Devonshire Club with R. B. Cunninghame
Graham, greatest of living essayists; missed
John Galsworthy, who had gone from Hamp-
stead Heath to spend the winter in the
south of France; and was looking forward
to some hours in Kent as the guest of Joseph
Conrad. He says-: “I have good memories
of Australia and hope to see it again some
day.”
“Old Scribe” : Donohoe Effendi, as Martin
Donohoe (B. 5/2/’2O) was called before the
Kaiser mesmerised the Turk, did his first
newspaper work in the Sydney Evening
News office, but it was only in the machine-
room. He then drifted to Melbourne, where
he took up the writing business, and returned
to Sydney to become police roundsman on the
News. One of the big jobs on which he
worked was the more-or-less unsolved Gatton
mystery. His entry into London journalism
was due to accident. Martin was in London
as a member of the Sydney Lancers when the
Boer War broke out. He offered liis services
to the Daily Chronicle, but all lie could
get was space. When he reached Capetown
the paper’s Mafeking correspondent had been
shot and Donohoe was offered the job. There
have been enough wars of one kind and
another to keep him fairly busy ever since.
Innovator as lie was, Samuel Butler could
not escape the influence of his time. Among
other things his biographer, Festing Jones,
records that when Samuel took his walks
abroad he carried with him a homoeopathic
medicine-bottle filled with Worcestershire
sauce. Even if his books were not “made
from the recipe of a nobleman in the county.”
his pick-me-up had to be.


SH
Jg?
SmW‘'
m
• V ■-,:
VP'
I ■
■
■
m
R
H
*
1
a
m
m
, ■•
Ik,
■1
Kfe:
u
I
;s
■
■
I
■
i!f
■
lE, > ,
■
■ :
n
t:
: i
%
• ‘
' « JsF*s
%S
Boomerangpafferr?
Tyres, hat/eprwed
To be T/>e most
re/fab/e anff-sk/d
euer p/aced before
AasTraban TToforisTs
• ... . % ..
#
BARNET GLASS RUBBER C?L'
founders,of fhe Rubber Indusfry in Australasia.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE.
BRISBANE. PERTH. HOBART. LAUNCESTON. CHRISTCHURCH;AUCKLAND.


Consider
*
before you
Consign
your Fat Stock to market. As owner, that’s
your right. But if you want to make quite
sure of top values, Kail or Ship your sheep
and cattle to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.,
successful salesmen, because they work hard
and push hard in clients’ interests.
Homebush Yards,
SYDNEY.
Enoggera Yards.
BRISBANE.
Nothing contributes
more to secure happy
temper in a child
than correct feeding:.
*44
Get the diet right, and baby
is as happy as the day is long.
Mellin’s Food is adapted for use with
the youngest babe, is light, easily
digested, safe. Besides,
is a no-worry food —hot water and
fresh cow’s milk, and it’s ready.
MeUin's
Food
Baby’s Feeder is important MelHn’s Feeding
Bottle is unique; hygienic,efficient,easily cleaned.
Sample Bottle of M ell in’s Food, with Handbook
for Mothers, “The Care of Infants/' sent Free.
Messrs. Gollin & Co. proprietary, Ltd.
Sydney
4
B.S.A.
.A
I I 7,
.. ’^CzF'LkMi
V*Vi
t!
W'.ttfrV
RIDE A B.S.A.
FOR COMFORT.
Why not cycle those hundred-and-one
tram, train and bus journeys on a
idcycle built of B.S.A. Fittings. There
is no trouble, just jump-on-and-away
and your destination is reached in
quicker time and under more pleasant
conditions than exist in unhealthy
crowded conveyances. Invest in a
bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings and
always have a handy means of avoid-
ing those unpleasant journeys which
are so tiring and which take so much
of your time. Bicycles built of B.S.A.
Fittings are specially designed for
comfort and ease of control ; long
service and reliability have built a
quality reputation known all over the
world. Strength and finish are the
leading features in all models.
All parts of a B.S.A Bicycle are guaranteed
interchangeable.
RIDE A BICYCLE BUILT OF
GENUINE
FTrjINC^
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
Send for Handbook.
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
mrsw&mm!*
mm
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
15 H AS
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’
“Collins House,’
Sydney Agent:
R, N. EIRE, 25 O’Connell Street.
Association Proprietary, Limited,
360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Buildings.
In an Exhibit of Machinery
Made by the Government
Small Arms Factory, Lithgow,
which took place in the Sydney Town Hall during Bush
Week, the machines were shown equipped with
Self-A lignin g
BALL-BEARINGS.
This furnishes one further proof of the high opinion
which leading engineers hold for the all-round reliability
and efficiency of these famous bearings.
All interested in machine tools are advised to write for
information regarding S.K.F. to
MMi
MELBOURNE SVDNEV BRISBANE
Better British Goods
displace foreign dominance
But this displacement has entailed four years of
hard work on the part of Britain’s manufacturers.
Do your part in seeing that the wartime endeavour and
achievement are repaid. When buying other-than-ali-wool
woven wear insist on
ALL BRITISH
UNDERWEAR
Stockings, Socks & Gloves
For Men, Women and Children.
''NS
On «;
The Merfga
Tab
Good Drapers and Stores every,
where can supply you. See iha
Medea Tab.
Manufactured by
W. TYLER SONS & CO.,
King Street, Leicester, England
Warm and thoroughly absorb-
ent Medea is manufactured in
Britain from other than all-
wool yarn, to give comfort and
service at popular prices.
THE. PALACE HOTEL
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
Does This Interest You?
The Lightning
Package Packer
will accurately pack 1000
packages per hour:—Self-
raising Flour, Corn Flour,
Cocoa & Powdered Materials.
• Send for Illustrated Catalogues.
Schumacher
Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.
Port Melbourne, VICTORIA.
Sv7KAgKT» fit fis:
fmm
earn
Business, Robbery, etc.
i •* * * *
“U.P.”: A VVestralian has an invention
which looks as though it may be a big thing
fox* exporters in Australia. A case of apples
after being dipped in this man’s preparation
was shipped from Westralia to Singapore
as general cargo. They were left in the hold
at Singapore and eventually brought hack to
Perth. After the eight weeks' trip they
were found to be in the same good condition
as when first shipped. The cost of dipping
and special packing is estimated at one
shilling a case. And it is alleged that the
process is effective even with potatoes.
* * * *
“Broker”: They still do it this way in
Nippon. One of the largest Sydney import-
ers of China and glassware recently got a
consignment of cups and saucers landed
which wex*e all they ought to be save in
one small detail —they were without
handles; never had carried a handle, in
fact. Prompt cabling elicited this reply:
“Regret oversight. Handles have followed
by later ship.” And this way. A rag-
shop ordei-ing shirts with the usual collar-
to-match material sent one along as a
sample. It happened to be a 164 in. collar.
Several gross of shii’ts were ordered, varying
in size from 14 to 17. They turned up all
right, but every neck-size fitted a 164 in.
collar.
“Banksia”: Fishing has been reduced to
a science at Lakes Entrance (Vic.) —none
of your old haphazard methods of throw-
ing 'em into the wells of boats and then
hauling ’em out again. When the Lakes
Entrance fishermen work with nets outside
they have a big bag in the bight of the net
for the fish to work into. Then a motor-
boat hitches on to the bag and drags it
home, fish and all. It is towed to the
pens, where the catch is yarded, to be called
for as wanted. As all the local fishermen
belong to an association they feed the
market with what it will absorb, leaving
the rest in the home-paddock. In the winter
the Entrance fishermen work a lot at Malla-
coota Inlet, down near Gabo, running the
fish up in a motor-launch. In the past some
of them used to go for the winter to Kent’s
Group, Hogan Group and other islands in
the Straits, taking their families with them ;
but nowadays they are too well off to bother,
and leave the Islands to the Westernport
and Corner Inlet men.
* * * *
“Dusty Folio”: No one has yet written
the romance of wattle-bark. Yet, like whal-
ing and sealing and even more than timbei*-
getting, it is interwoven with the story of
pioneering in many parts of Australia. In
N. S. Wales, Vic. and the Speck, at least
in the coastal districts, whence the bark
could be got away by sea, the barkers went
with, or in front of, the first wave of settle-
ment. At Poi*tland (Vic.) wattle-bark
followed whale-oil as the object of export
to Launceston. The first full cargo ever
loaded within what is now Victoria for
overseas was composed of bark shipped, in
the Andromeda fi*om Westernport, and that
was befox-e ever John Batman visited Port
Phillip. The barkers went from Launceston
to Westernport in November, 1834, and
their spoil was shipped early in 1835. On
the northern coasts of Van Diemen’s Land,
too, both on the n.-w. and on the n.-e., the
barker was ahead of both the timber-
splitter and the settler. Sometimes the old
bay whalers went in for it as a side-line in
the off-season.
* * * *
“The Arcadian”: It is a recognised thing
in Broken Hill that minei's on strike pay no
rent. Neither do they squai*e up the ari*ears
when the scrap is over. There have been
occasions when an inconsiderate landlord
has put the bailiff in, but this has only
provided the strikers with a little much-
needed diversion. In such a case “the
push” is brought on the scene in sufficient
numbers to crowd all the rooms, and one of
the number is selected as the buyer. The bid-
ding is left entirely in his hands, any
genuine competitor being kept well on the
outskii'ts where he can be neither seen nor
heard. Thus chairs go for 6d. each, beds
for a shilling and so on. One houseful
of furniture was knocked down for 18s. 9d.
This money was rapidly collected from
friends and sympathisers of the tenant and
paid to the bailiff, while the nominal pur-
chaser had great pleasure in presenting the
goods and chattels to the original owner,
who, after this temporary interruption, just
went on living in the same old house in the
same old way. There is no respect for
property, i.e., other people’s property, in
Broken Hill. Many houses have no fences
and some have no verandah floors. In
bygone strikes, when wood was scai*ce and
money more so, fences and floors disappeared
up chimneys. Now “Capitalism” won’t
build'houses, so the miner just goes pigging
along, miserable and discontented', railing
always at the “silvertails,” but never real-
ising that his condition is due to his own
assaults on the social system.
HIS MODEST CHOICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I had my choice of two fair girls.
With freckles on her nose,
One dressed in print, mock were her pearls,
She’d half-crown cotton hose;
Her hat was simple, made of straw,
With just a ribbon round:
She represented, as I saw,
At most not quite a pound.
The other maid was very fine
In splendid crf-pe de Chine;
Her diamonds were from the mine,
Her hat had cost, I ween,
Ten guineas at a city store ;
Nine rings were on her hands.
I said: “Eight hundred pounds or more
She’s worth just as she stands.”
Pure modesty possessed me then,
Self-abnegation came.
“To take the best from other men,”
I said, “would be a shame.”
Though I’m a frugal father’s pride,
A saving mother’s son,
The maid of value I denied,
And took the worthless one!
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


&
m
© *r3
□
|p?- H E public is urged to
always insist upon having
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
and not to take anything in
their place. At times an
attempt is made by shop-
keepers to persuade their
customers to try some other
remedy when Dr. Morse’s
Indian RootPillsare inquired
for, simply because the other
article carries a larger profit.
Many people in a weak moment have allowed
themselves to be influenced in that way,
but subsequently regretted it. Profit by
their experience. Accept nothing but what
you ask for. The corrective properties of
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, as a remedy
for Biliousness, Constipation and Indiges-
tion, have been proved beyond doubt, and
as the result of nearly a century’s consist-
ent service they are to-day the premier
household remedy.
Make one
feel Brighter.


1,
tar —
\
m
m
i
A
South Bend Engine Lathes.
Prompt Delivery from Stock!
South Bend Engine Lathes are Self-acting, Sliding,
Surfacing and Screw-cutting, with Hollow Spindles
and Gap Beds. They are accurate Lathes for all-
round work, and each Lathe is operated and tested before
leaving the factory. Saddle and Face Plate tests less
than .OOOoin.
All Lathes are fitted with Supplementary Bridge Piece
to close the Gap so that they may be used as straight bed
Lathes for ordinary work.
STOCK SIZES AS FOLLOWS:
lSfin. Swing by 32ft. Bed. Hole in Spindle lfin. Swing
in Gap, 26in. x lOin.
21fin. Swing by 32ft. Bed. Hole in Spindle llin.
21fin. Swing by 14ft. Bed. Hole in Spindle lfin.
24fin Swing by 14ft. Bed. Hole in Spindle lfin.
24 ; }in. Swing by 16ft. Bed. Hole in Spindle lfin.
Lathes with Beds 12ft. and longer are all fitted with
Centre Legs.
EQUIPMENT. —All Lathes complete with large and
small Face Plates, two Steel Centres, Centre Rest, Change
Gears, Adjustable Stop for screw-cutting, set of Feed
Gears, Gear Guards, Wrenches and Double Friction
Counter-shaft.
Rising Blocks for each size of Lathe makes: —
13in. Lathe, Swing 18in.
16in. Lathe, Swing 22in.
3Sin. Lathe, Swing 24in.
21in. Lathe, Swing 27in.
24in. Lathe, Swing 30in.
Rising Blocks are not included with Lathes, but would
be charged extra.
Complete Specifications and Prices on Request.
BENSON BROTHERS LTD
76-78 Liverpool Street, Sydney. 71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
C 284.
M
ELECTRIC HOISTS
and RUNWAYS.
NO system of cranes can approach the convenience, speed and economy of tlie Morris
Overhead Electric Runway in feeding departments and discharging their production.
The Runway links up every department in a wonderful way—it gets into places where
a Crane is impossible. As your departments extend you can extend or alter your Runway and
adapt it to new needs.
Whatever the difficulties of transporting goods in stores, warehouses, factories, mines, etc.,
indoor or outdoor, there is a Morris Runway that will overcome every obstacle. Herbert
Morris can be controlled from the cage, from the floor or from any point. The
greatest workshops in the world use Morris Runway Systems because they overcome the
high cost of labor.
We shall be pleased to supply estimates for a Morris Runway installation for your business.
Also for Overhead Cranes (hand or electric), Jib Cranes, Wall Cranes, Mast Cranes, Crab
Winches. Stocks carried of the celebrated Morris “2240” Triple-Geared Pulley Block, the
most efficient and reliable block on the market.
NOYES BROS.,
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney; (MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499-501 Bourke Street, Mel-
bourne: and Darling Buildings, Adelaide. Selling Agent: CHAS. E. BERN AYS, 125 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
[Bslo
An Adelaide newspaper has just made
a local doctor say in evidence: “I operated
on the patient as the only means of having
his life.” The beastly eomp. had merely
substituted “h” for “s.”
“A Thankful Lad”: The girls are not so
hard on us, after all. This from'Melbourne
Age :
Lid.V, young, wishes to correspond with respect-
able returned .soldier, or otherwise. R.E.M..
P.O.
Piddington, K.C.. chairman of the Inter-
state Commission, has no illusions that favor
imported material. Said he to a witness:
‘‘Broadly speaking, there is no inferior
material in Australia; if you had bought
Australian goods you would have got a
sound article.”
“Eegeebee”: Two rival curates in a
Western Sydney suburb expected a “eair
to a more lucrative and fashionable quarter.
The likelier trier was overlooked: his rival
got the job. And he wasn’t a bit pleased
when the departing pilot chose this text
for his farewell sermon; “Tarry ye here
with the ass while I fare further.”
“G.P.”: The Chink that serves us with
tomatoes left a message for me the other day.
To this effect: “Ask your huzzybun if he
catch any nice serfruns he sell for one pong
two tchillin.” “Nice” evidently meant new
and shiny and not worn. He supplied the
information that he sometimes got one-two-
tlee in the same house, and one time man-
aged to secure ten in a day round about
Cremorne (Sydney). Evidently the old
rascal smuggles them out of the country—
at a profit of not less than eight shillings
for every sovereign, I’ll wager.
The Defence Department might invite new
P.M.G. Wise to call some morning and ask
him to look into things from the Defence
point of view. For instance, the other day
one solitary cable was put out of operation
at Ilomebush, outside Sydney. For nearly
eight hours, while toiling engineers sweated
at the job, country districts were completely
cut off; and it was not till next day that
arrears were cleaned up. As the Defence
Department will tell the P.M.G., every point
of such a character has to be guarded in war-
time ; and the more points there are of the
kind the fewer men there remain for fighting.
“Bill Bowyang”: Once worked for a N.Q.
newspaper-owner who struck an idea for
getting in long-overdue subs. In bold type
over the leader he said :
We have sent an account to many of our sub-
scribers who are in arrears with their payments,
without receiving any reply from them. As we
can only suppose that the cause oT their failure to
reply to our repeated communications is to be
attributed to their death, we intend to publish a
list of their names shortly among- the obituary
notices. Any subscriber who does not wish to
figure among the deaths will, therefore, please
send us without delay an answer—and remittance.
The cash came in with a rush, and for the
first time for months the boss paid me in full.
“Six-enate”; The way in which Chargitt,
Fees and Chargitt put the weight on the
bills of costs that tire handed to the unions
is illustrated by the observation of its secre-
tary that the Federated Timber Workers'
Union will have to pay £4OOO for
its latest award. Enormous bills are
paid without a murmur by unions
which would snort if asked to add
a pound a week to an official’s screw:
and union officials sometimes seem strangely
financial after these bills have been paid.
However much unionists benefit by their
awards there is no reason why they should
pay through the nose for them. The taxa-
tion of industrial bills of costs would not
only protect them against overcharging, but
also silence some very unpleasant rumors.
In the days when grandpa wore brace-
lets :
The first of a long series of convict-escapes from
Van Diemen’s Land took place towards the end of
1803, within a few months of the first settlement
at Risdon and before there was a Hobart. Seven
convicts led by one Druce, or Duce, stole Com-
mandant Bowen’s whaleboat and ran to the Bass
Straits islands in her. Here one was marooned on
a rock and the rest joined the sealers on Cape
Barren and Flinders Island. Druce and three of his
mates plotted to seize the sealers’ schooner, but
the sealers got in first and shoved the four on a
little island with a small supply of tucker. The
only one of the seven of whose later history any-
thing is known was William Privett. Amasa
Delano, a Yankee sealing captain, shipped him and
16 other “Botany Bay” men at Kent Bay for flic
run across the Pacific. When Delano was caught in
a squall off Juan Fernandez and his crew began to
look blue, Privett bucked them up by remarking
that it was not as bad a. night as the one on which
he crossed Banks Strait in the King’s boat which
he and his mates had stolen from the Derwent.
Some of Dalano’s recruits ran away when he reached
Chile and promptly got ifito gaol, but he does not
say whether Privett was one of them.
“Croson” : There are times, when it would
he better if justice was deaf and dumb as
well as blind. Bartholomew Blivins, to give
the man his wrong name, was, in liilo.
sentenced to four years’ imprisonment and
an indeterminate sentence to follow. He!
did the fixed term and was then sent to
French Island, where he proved so reliable
that he even had charge of a gang of free
men. Learning from his wife that she and
their four children were ill and in want, he
escaped in March, 1019, and tramped back
to Melbourne. Afterwards he took the
family to Geelong, where he got work, sup-
ported them properly and walked the straight
track generally—till a policeman recognised
him and arrested him as an escapee. For
this irregularity Judge Woinarski gave him
two years "hard”—the Kathleen, of course,
still stood. On an appeal to the Full Court
their Honors reduced the two years to six
months, which was. something. But the
point overlooked is that the essence of the
indeterminate sentence is that the prisoner
shall be taught the virtue of steady, useful
work and the folly of crime, and the mans
record, both at French Island and since his
escape, shows that he has learnt the lesson.
Nevertheless, he will "do” his six months
and as long a term thereafter as the I.S.
Board thinks fit, and the wife and four
children will continue in want in Geelong
or elsewhere. Surely there is room for
inquiry here. The fact that-a man like this
is k pt in gaol suggests that the Board isnt
studying its charges closely enough.


Dddbeßrothers
MOTOR CAR
In less than five years more than three hundred and
eighty thousand Dodge Brothers Motor Cars have been
placed in the hands of owners.
If this sales record represented the appeal of a price,
the total would not be particularly impressive.
The important thing is that the car is not thought of in
terms of price, but in terms of value.
How often you hear the car spoken of —and how sel-
dom the price! ,
It is the quality of thought that surrounds it which
makes this success noteworthy.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
Dodge Brothers
Canada Cycle & Motor Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Standardised Motors,
Sydney.
Limited
Canada Cjcle & Motor Co., Ltd.,
Brisbane.
YVinterbottom Motor C 0.., Ltd.j
Perth.
Cheney Motor C 0.., Ltd..
Adelaide.
Missing Friends.
CIAMUEL JOHN GAMBLE, born near
Londonderry, Ireland, lived in Bruns-
wick, Victoria, about 1800, worked at Hay
Hawn, W .A., about 1893. Information as
to the above, if dead or alive, required.
MARSHALL LYLE (Solicitor),
422 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Vic.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centumm,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
Tin- Itemed}' used b.v Army and Navy men.
Used since if,nfi. CURES Write for BooK
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WI-AK SIGHT,
Sf GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London. Fnglara
Insist on “Singleton’s”- refuse all substitutes.
REMINGTON UMC S”*" 8
A SPLENDID RABBIT RIFLE.
;
MODEL 24A, .22 Calibre, Solid Breech, Hammerles.s. Easily taken apart
and assembled. Chambered to fire the Ordinary Rim-fire .22 Cartridge.
MAGAZINE HOLDS 11 CARTRIDGES, all of which can be fired as
quickly as trigger can be pulled, without lowering Rifle from the shoulder.
Fitted with Safety Lock. Full directions attached to each rifle.
W eight, 4-] lb. PRICE £6 net. Postage or Carriage extra.
Obtainable Retail from the following Sydney Firms:
MARCUS CLARK, LTD. J. P. KNIGHT,
COWLES & DUNN. P. LASSETTER & CO., LTD.
GRACE BROTHERS, LTD. NOCK ft KIRBY, LTD.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD. MTCK SIMMONS, LTD.
Also from Country Storekeepers.
WHOLESALE ONLY from following Sydney Firms:
ALDERSON’S, LTD. J. P. KNIGHT.
JOHN BROOMFIELD, LTD. NOYES BROTHERS, LTD.
PAUL & GRAY, LTD.
Australian Representative for the Manufacturers :—•
D. D. BRYANT, Box 686 G.P.0., Melbourne.
GENERAL CATALOGUE MAILED FREE ON REQUEST.
mmsse
calling
feNkJ
To the Tourist, Scientist, Investor
and, with a hundred voices from her millions
of acres, to the Man in search of Land.
Free Information on all subjects
available at once on receipt of this coupon.
Name
Address .
Queensland Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Brisbane.
S.B.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Hercules Oil Engines
This Engine is Built Throughout at
Our Own Works.
Best BRITISH MODEL (operating
entirely on Kerosene, no petrol even
for starting); starting effected by
Lamp, which is removed immediately
after.
NUMEROUS SATISFIED USERS.
MADE IN SIZL j—3, 4,5, 6£ and 8 BRAKE-HORSEPOWER.
Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd.
MERCHANTS, ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS.
418-424 AND 450-460 ANN STREET, PETRIE’S BIGHT.
(Trams pass near by.) Works —Yeerongpilly. [2
Waste and Duplication of
Effort Being Eliminated by
New Methods of Trans-
portation.
An official of the United States Railroad
Administration recently made the statement
that the motor car is becoming a serious
competitor of the railroads and that it will
eventually drive many short lines completely
out of business.
“Several considerations enter into this
somewhat remarkable analysis of the trans-
portation situation,” said a prominent
manufacturer, commenting on the subject.
"It hasn’t been so many generations ago
since the American public was quite con-
tent with the speed of mule-drawn canal
barges and horse-drawn waggons. They were
their only means of transportation and few
people even thought of the possibility of
getting things moved faster. It was the
maximum of transportation equipment, and
everybody was satisfied.
“But along came the railroads with their
innumerable branches and short lines, and
before long both farmer and merchant were
shipping things to each other by this new
method. It was much quicker and there-
fore cheaper. Instead of hauling all the way
by waggon, they used the waggon only in
hauling to the freight depot, saving their
horses and themselves for increased produc-
tion.
“Then the advent of the motor car brought
still another change. The farmer is finding
that he can save still more time and energy
by leaving his horses on the farm to rest or
continue their work while he hurries away
to the city or to the freight station in his
car. And the merchant has long since
found that the horse is a financial burden as
compared with the motor car for delivery
and general hauling purposes. This is true
particularly in any business that requires a
light vehicle for quick service.
‘ And coupled with this is the equally im-
portant fact that many large business houses
are equipping their salesmen with motor
cars. These salesmen formerly depended
exclusively on the short lines. But short-
line trains usually are not continental
limiteds, nor do they run as often as the
salesman desires to move. Consequently
there is an enormous loss of time. It is
no wonder that the motor car, always avail-
able and always reliable, is finding favor
with these salesmen. They complete their
work and move along, independent of
schedules. And so another of the old
reliable customers of the little railroads is
deserting them—and the day is not far dis-
tant when the roads will have to succumb.”
In Australia the need of motor transport
is even more apparent, and a glance at the
sales records of the Standardised Motors
Limited, Sydney, would indicate that many
farmers, squatters and wholesale business
houses are equipping themselves with motor
transport facilities, their choice favoring
Bodge Brothers Motor Cars on account of
their established record for reliability and
low upkeep.


ffolepr&Df
ffasierg
Holeproofs are made bp
scientific methods, de-
veloped onip in recent
pears.
Wearers of Holeproof know
the comfort and con-
venience of alwaps having
perfect Ho sier soft,
neatlp-fitting, stplish.
These qualities are all em-
bodied in
“HOLEPROOF ”
HOSIERY.
Special methods of knitting
Holeproofs multi pig their
durabilitg.
If gour dealer cannot supplg
gou, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd.
50 York Street :: Sydney.
WMi
’U*. .
Fencing Wire
r noin the Ore to the Pence Australian.
Once strained always tight. Sold by
Storekeepers.
Get Booklet N. 19.
Austral Nail Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Manufacturers’ Buildings.
304-316 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Wire Mills at Newcastle, N.S.W
FENCE
WITH
PARIS
GARTERS
No mefal
can touch you
THE NAME OF
PARIS
is the endorsement of perfection, and
your guarantee of Garter quality.
RETAILED EVERYWHERE.
Indents and Wholesale,
Walter Cathro Pty., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
Makers, A Stein & Co., Chicago.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England.
AMERICA'S
PIOMEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
All y Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 3ist Street,
New York, U.S ; A.
Postage to United
states, 3d.
NEURALGIA!
It is so easy to catch those debilitat-
ing Colds, Influenza, Rheumatism,
Neuralgia, etc. Help yourself to
avoid these by taking
Dhosfo
I THE ROYAL TONIC
rmo
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/0
Ashton dC Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
X
xv
Wm
is
/A
Shirts
Superior Fit and Finish
Thistle Shirts win
the enthusiastic ap-
proval of particular
men, for Thistle Shirts typify
good taste in style coupled
with comfort.
Their exceptional wearing
qualities, superior workman-
ship, and absolute correctness
ensure unusual value for your
money.
When you buy Shirts say
“ Thistle Shirts.” Ask also
for Thistle PYJAMAS.
Made in Australia
Alexander Stewari & Sons Ltd.
Makers, BRISBANE AND SYDNEY
m
d
%
X
to
\Z.
a,
K
&
&
%/?
See [his brand*
on each 9hirh
Men’* Stout 7/6
Light 6/-
Ladies’ * - 4/-
Soles and Heels!,
per set.
Men's Stout 2/6
Light 2'•
Ladies’ 1/3
lieels only
per pair
FROM ALL
BOOTMEN.
Manufacturers —
PHILLIPS'
PA 1 ENTS Lt
London , Eng.
tfjj THIN Rubber plates, with raised studs,
□J to be attached on top of ordinary soles and
heels, giving complete protection from wear.
SOLES AND HEELS
make one pair of boots
last the time of three
i| THEY impart smoothness to the tread,
give grip, and prevent slipping. Keep
teet dry in wet weather. Ideal for golf.
!
Fortify I
your I
Boots! '
As worn by
thousands _ of
Au st r ali an
Officers and
Men Overseas.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:—
N.s. WALES AND QUEENSLAND, G WILLIAMSON, 46, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA, J. M. ROHAN, 262, Post Office Place, Melbourne.
S. & W. AUSTRALIA, C. M. RANSFORD, 22, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Ad. from an Adelaide daily:—
Will the Gentleman that was Pushed Through my
Window kindly communicate with me at oncer
What do we smell—romance or a hiding?
The S. Aus. “organiser” for the Prince
of Wales’s visit is Harry Blinman, the old
cricketer of Giffen-Lyons-Jarvis days. He
is permanent head of the Chief Sec.’s Depart-
ment.
“Naming”: Thank God for these modern
big windows! Before they rebuilt my firm
had offices in Pitt-street, and a very dark
shop it was. The chief went out one day,
and opr old accountant, who missed no
chance, slipped downstairs, for a snifter,
eame in later and went to the salesroom.
Clapping a familiar figure on the back that
faced him, he said, “Has the old gone
for the day?” “Not yet, Mr. 8.,” replied
the old himself, who had entered during
his absence.
From the Hawkesbury :
Our local trains are loaded with crates of chooks,
representing- a wholesale migration from the country
pen to the city pot. At present prices of wheat and
pollard eggs to pay should be four shillings a doz.
Hundreds of families who existed at the game—
they never made a living—are sacrificing their stud
birds at half what it has cost to rear them. The
Buriimer-fruit grower is on a worse wicket, owing to
an alleged shortage of sugar having stopped jam-
making; peaches cannot be given away and plums
are allowed to rot. Come on the land, you young
Diggers! Be primary producers and learn to scratch!
“Bantam”: Australia’s infant iron and
steel industry will probably soon have a
competitor nearer home than U.S.A. or
China. The Government of the Netherlands
Indies and other people are getting inter-
ested in the big iron-ore deposits at Larona,
in Celebes, not 1000 miles from the Aus-
tralian coast. There is easily-worked ore in
quantities estimated at from 160,000,000 to
213,000,000 tons lying within 18 miles of
a good harbor and containing 49 or 50 per
cent, of metallic iron, and also manganese,
chrome iron and nickel. There are possi-
bilities of water-power thereabouts, and,
anyway, there's plenty of coal in Borneo, to
say nothing of Sumatra. And there is a
mighty reservoir of cheap labor handy in
Java.
“Naming”: A recurring family event in
the domestic life of our cat provided mother
with an opportunity to impart some phy-
siological instruction to an eager child of
12 who had been asking awkward questions.
Phyllis was tremendously impressed by her
parent’s lapse from the high state of aloof-
ness which she had previously adopted on
such topics. Delicately, with tact and grace,
mother enlarged on the matter until Phyllis
learned that storks and pumpkins added
nothing to the human species, and doctors
carried nothing in bags more mysterious or
beautiful than instruments. When she
realised at last all that the story conveyed,
she came a little closer to mother and
whispered; “Have you told Daddy about
it?”
N. 8. Wales Probate Judge Harvey
listened to a scrap of old history lately. In
October, 1852. Benjamin Baker returned
from the Rocky River Diggings, near Tam-
worth (N.S.W.), to his sister’s home at
AVest Maitland. He stayed a couple of days,
gave his sister’s husband £256 to mind for
him, kept £2OO, and started for Ballarat
with a small party. Three years later Moses
Baker, a brother of Benjamin, returned, but
was too ill from sunstroke to ever tell what
had ha pinned to the rest of the party. The
presumption is that they were killed by bush-
rangers or abos. or died from thirst. The
£256, now (but not always) in the Savings
Bank, has grown to £525, and Alfred Henry
Tinson, a nephew of the missing Benjamin,
asked Justice Harvey for leave, and got it,
to swear death as occurring on or since
October 27. 1852, for administration pur-
poses. If only that £256 had at the start
been put into something that gave 41 p.c.
compound interest, it would have been worth
nearly £6OOO by now.
“Hawker”: It seems to me that some per-
sons in authority—the Coal Board, to wit—
either possess no brains or lack the capacity
to use them. Bay excursions and picnics
have been run from - Melbourne without
stint, yet I have gone into factories where
only half the hands were being employed,
and to others shut down absolutely because
they have been refused the power that the
shortage of coal has made scarce. ‘ I cannot
get the goods I want, and many workers
are compulsorily idle, while coal is being
consumed by picnic boats, race trains,
theatres, picture shows and what not. All
these are luxuries, and it seems to me it
would be a wise policy to make the luxury
industries so intermittent and so unattrac-
tive that energetic and brainy persons would
prefer the attractions and profits of the
various useful industries. All work no
doubt makes Jack a dull boy, but if he
pays more attention to “pictures” than to
shipbuilding and engineering he will pre-
sently have an empty stomach.
“Ex-Dig.”: My friend Mick, who has
attached himself to the sustenance queue at
the Repat. for as long as it will stand him
and knows pretty well all the ropes by
this time, bailed me up in the street the
other day, and asked me this, all in a heap:
Will the Prince of Wales, should he be given a
commission in the A.1.F., be entitled to register with
the Repat. for employment and be entitled to draw
sustenance; or will he be treated as an Imperial
soldier and have his eligibility decided by the State
Board ? Also, if he makes a declaration of partial
dependency of his aged parents, will he be able to
collect additional sustenance on that account until
he finds employment? And will Senator Duncan,
in view of the fact that he has got a job in the
Senate, be entitled to draw on the £lO “tools of
trade”; and will the officials cut him down if he
includes in bis list an extra ribbon for his type-
writer? Does ’Enlev’s rank entitle him to assistance
if he resumes work as a contractor; and when he
goes before the medical-officer can Ruling 50 (“de-
privation of benefits to those refusing treatment”)
be applied if he declines to have treatment to over-
come his difficulty with his aitches ? If Birdwood
decides to settle in Australia and chuck the army,
will he, in view of his age, be entitled to vocational
training and be given a course in lift-driving; or
will he be turned down until he has documentary
evidence to show that he has applied for reinstate-
ment with his pre-war employer?
Mickwanted to ask me a lot more questions,
but, being in a hurry, I advised him to send
to one of the papers.


r
m
r
in
lli'SiiiiiiSii
m
.am
w
w ,
a
IP
•&£k
GOODYEAR
leads the
march of progress
PAUSE and consider what
the motor tyre has done
for transportation—and
how vastly much more it will
yet accomplish. Think what
it has meant to the sheer
pleasure of the race; what it
has made possible in the
industrial field; how it has
brought distant places near
and made the mile shrink to
a tenth of its length.
Look round you at the great
fleets of motor-driven vehicles
—the massive truck, the
lordly car and the quick, wasp-
ish cycle. They are the
vanguard of clouds of cars
that are to come. And,
remember, that always, “in
the van of the vanguard,”
Goodyear has, by its great
discoveries and improvements,
pointed the way—lent wings
to the feet of the advance.
From the day when Charles Goodyear
discovered the method of vulcanising
rubber, the name Goodyear has always
led the way in aspiration, in experi-
ment, in achievement. And so with
the present-day Goodyear organisa-
tion, the goal has always been
“ positively-better-construction,” and
the year-by-year effort in this direction
has evolved a tyre of which the
qualities of mileage-production,
economy, comfort, safety and uni-
formity of result are little short of
marvellous.
A Goodyear Heavy Tourist Tube keeps
the press-re constant —and pressure
is vital to the well-being of the tyre.
Branches and Agencies
in all Principal Cities.
Service Stations and
Dealers Everywhere.
"S ]
3? S
m


Stop Torturing
Stopain Toothache Gum
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tooth.
Don’t put. up with toothache a minute. You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece of Stopain
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around the
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic.
U
Let STOPAIN Stop That Boring Pain.
It fills up the cavity, excluding the air, and
stopping the mouth acids from acting on the
frantic, jumping nerve; hardens quickly, and
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—until you are ready to have a per-
manent filling put in.
Why punish yourself ? Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
Stopain Toothache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies.
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
520-528 Riley Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Drives Away
Corns Quickly.
At last a real ‘ does what it says ’ Corn Cure;
nothing like it or just -s good has ever been
known.
Every man or woman who has corns, warts
or bunions ought to try Handy Corn Cure at
once and see how marvellously it works. Quit
shaving your corn with a razor. You may draw
blood and cause blood-poisoning.
Handy Corn Cure will get rid of every corn
you have got without pain or discomfoit.
Handy Corn Cure is remarkable because it
never irritates or turns the true flesh sore or
raw. It can’t—it’s that antiseptic, safe and
harmless. The corn shrivels up and comes out.
1/- Per Box everywhere. Posted free by
Sunset Drug Co., 520-528 Riley-st., Sydney.
> (
©
wz
%
V.W/J
9
n
SR
cm
y
ft
■ ■
■ ■
A? >
■t. t>«
©
si
9
(. •> /
&N
LivEKMPn Pictures
by-
Chan bei?lm m s
Tablets -
Beware of those dizzy spells that so often affect
you “ Vertigo ” is what the doctors call it.
It is often accompanied by that tired
feeling, absence of appetite and extreme
nervousness. It is your liver that is
wrong; you are bilious —this means a
poor circulation, a congested brain, a
disordered stomach, constipated bowels.
Chamberlain’s Tablets for the stomach
and liver are what you need —they act
directly on the liver. You need only
one each night for a few nights and you
will soon be right again.
Those affected with dizzy spells
should be most particular about their
bowels. If they do not move during
the day do not wait until another day
but take one of Chamberlain’s Tablets
that very night.
You may think this a very trifling
matter, yet the more you study this
question the more you will be convinced
of the great importance of having these
daily movements of the bowels.
For biliousness, constipation, belching,
gas on the stomach, foul breath, head-
ache, bloating, etc., there is nothing
to equal
Jfor THe s Stomacm & liiver .
SB
Diarrhoea.
Take It With You.
Be Firm.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
ratal to young and old. The great danger in
:his disease is due to the frequent lack of
proper treatment in the first stages. Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is a reliable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, and
is pleasant to take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness of the bowels will
save suffering and anxiety—and loss of both
ime and money.
The importance of having a bottle of Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy with
them is realised by experienced travellers, as
this medicine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet often
deranges the stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should be taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel trouble nearly always come on suddenly
and when this remedy is at hand all danger
j&ay be avoided.
When you ask for a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be per-
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there is nothing so good. This
medicine has been tested in the most severe
cases of cramp, colic, dysentery and d’arrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. Can be
depended upon” is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy. One bottle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
never fails to give immediate and permanent
relief.
safeguard your health
DtJ.Collis
CMorodyj#
The Original and Only Genuine.
Til R ÜBST MISDICINK FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in tiie Cough of ISKONCHITIS ami
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVEUISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, IjS, 3/-, 5/
Made in England.
A
Mi
r r
ticferltdeC
North, South, East, West, wherever the flag of
civilization flies, Waterman’s Ideal is speeding the
pen work of progressive people. It writes the
language of every Nation; its fame is international;
its pre-eminence indisputable
cjjfZ&e,
Waterman®
(Ideal)
FountSriPexi
Does not the idea of owning
a pen ready to wrile thou-
sands of words without
refilling—of using that same
pen year after year, without
change or trouble—of keep-
ing that pen in your pocket
ready to use at any moment
—does not the idea appeal to
you ?
Three Types : “ P. cket Self-
Filling,” “Safety,” and
“Regular.” Of Stationers
and Jewellers everywhei e.
L. G. SLOAN, Ltd.,
'■ Corner
London, England ,
Australia: Harold D. I>ixon,
P 105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
xL. should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian' Reading-room at the
Offices, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees.
W. H. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
•C •
MS
Shaving: with
The “PLUM”
RAZOR
Is a pleasure you’ll anticipate.
This noted Razor is no new invention.
For many years it has maintained its
supremacy through sheer consistency of
merit.
The “Plum” requires but little strop-
ping, as its finely tempered edge keeps
keen against the strongest beard, and
gives that smooth, velvety shave which
every man appreciates. Thousands of
“Plum” Razors are sold annually.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of
charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strops, 7/6 and 10/6 each.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2.
All the above Post Free.
SAFETY
RAZORS.
“Army ami Navy” Safety Razors, with Strop, 12/6 each.
Ditto, in Nickel Case (flat), suitable for travelling, 10/o.
The “Army and Navy” Razor has our fullest recommendation.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder


Missing Friends.
J ACK and WILEY. Why not write?
Same address. All alive, but anxious
to hear.
Wanted.
WANTED, WORKS MANAGER.
VX/ ANTED, WORKS MANAGER for large Engineer-
'' ing Works. Applicant must have modern work-
shop experience, good organiser and accustomed to
the handling of men. Applicant to state age,
experience. First-class opening for suitable man.
Apply BOX 498 G.P.0., MELBOURNE.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell# Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
ProvidsntSociety
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded..
Yielding Iteversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. ..
Accumulated Funds exceed
Annual Income over
£1,000.000
£1,700.000
£39.000.000
£5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. AY. APPERCY, F.S.S., General Manager,
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Stirri.r —
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Riles, Reams, Sleepers,
•R aving Blocks, Rllil<l e r s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc,
PIN NIC It S' HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LOUD ST It EFT, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Rrnnohos in all nnrts of fho \vo-* ’
llarr.v Kick arils Tivoli Theatres lAd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. MolMOall.
-p IVOLI theatre, syhn e y.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY' at 2.30.
THE REVUE OF SURPRISES,
BUZZ BUZZ.
Plans at Nicholson's and the r livoli.
-pIVOJLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
TIIE FANTASTIC MUSICAL COMEDY,
“AS YOU WERE.”
Prices as usual.
It I T K It 1 O N T H E A T It K. S' DNEt.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LID.
H
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
LIGHTXIN’.
A Comedy Drama by Wincheil Smith and Frank
Oacoi , i’l'-oilucing the famous American character-
actor JOHN D. O’HARA and a specially-selected
cast of players.
Plan at Paling’s.
H K M A .1 E S T ' ' S. > ' l» N K '
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 6.
THE REVUE OF A THOUSAND AND ONE
DELIGHTS,
THE PASSING SHOW OF 1920.
Interpreted by a Specially-selected Cast.
Plans at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
IALAfE TIiEATR E. S Y I) N E V.
Sole Direction J. and N. TAIT.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS OF
EMELIE POI.INI
in the English Comedv-Drama,
THE LITTLE DAMOZEL.
Plan Nicholson’s. Day Sale White Rose.
u
N I <> N
I C T U It E T II K A T It E M
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND. GLOBE. LYRIC. EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC. GRAND. KING’S CROSS,
WESTS OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
H
Kit MAJESTY'S Til EAT It E. MKI.IHHUhIS
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present their Gorgeous
Pantomime Extravaganza,
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY.
Plan at Allan’s.
Popular Prices.
iItITANMA ’•'ll EAT ItE. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Til 10 ATIt E It <> V A 1.,, M£LBOUBK£
Direction J. O. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
j. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Attractive
Musical Play,
KISSING TIME.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
KING’® Til EAT HE. MEI.ItOU It N E.
Lessees: BAILEY * GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. and N. TATT and BAILEY and GRANT
present their Gravid Spectacular Pantomime,
MOTHER HUBBARD.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
<>\ I'S Til SO A THE.**. M El. Hot KN 10
Also SIDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
'HUS WEEK’S FEATURES:
JAMES KNIGHT & MADGE STUART in
NATURE’S GENTLEMAN.
GEORGE WALSH in
PUTTING ONE OVER.
Prices as usual.
1“IIE ALLAN WILKIE COMPANY,
including Miss FREDTSWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
Touring New Zealand in
lIINDLE WAKES, CANDIDA, THE SCHOOL FOR
SCANDAL, SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER. TRILBY,
CAMILLE, THE SILVER KING, THE MIDNIGHT
WEDDING.
WELLINGTON MARCH 6 TO 20.
gicOND - TOUR OF THE DOMINION.
THE ALLAN WILKIE COMPANY, including Miss
Frediswvde Hunter-Watts, in
THE LUCK OF THE NAVY
(By arrangement with Messrs. J. & N. Tait).
A TEMPORARY GENTLEMAN.
THE ROTTERS. THE RIVALS. HAMLET.
Artists desiring an engagement in Mr. Wilkie’s
No. 2 Company, which is now being formed for ine
small towns of New Zealand, are requested to apply
to the Grand Opera House, Wellington.
QLACIA It I U M, MELBOURNE
JAZZ PALAIS
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING,
8,15 to 10.45.
BUILDING ARTIFICIALLY COOLED.
MISS HUTCHISON’S JAZZ BAND.
Admission 17-
Single Dances -/6
Book of 14 Dance Tickets 3/6
lyjAjESTic theatre! Melbourne!
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CONSTANCE TALMADGE
in
THE SHUTTLE.
Matinees daily at 2/80. Nights at 8.
gy| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world's films, includin''
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGKAPII, PATIIE
WOULD and SLLZNICK.
m
r”„
WiMm
m
m
tW;
s
DISTINCTION
in appearance is achieved more by good
judgment than money, and good judgment
chooses
ABBEY SHOES
as a rare combination of irreproachable
correctness and QUALITY that makes for
longer life of footwear —genuine shoe
service.
We feature a special Golf Shoe in choice
Tan Willow Calf.
Light Soles 55 -
Heavy Soles 57/6
Same style in Box Calf 427-
Narrow, medium and wide fittings.
Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
For Real Economy Use CHAMPION
Hand-power Concrete Mixers,
Concrete Barrows and Carts.
m
CWAWW on- patent «
of
ft
od'J'
m
A
m
.
i
■ A
mmm
A well-known N.S.W. Borough Engineer writes to say he saved 20/- a
day with the “Champion” Hand-power Concrete Mixer, and that it is
one of his best investments.
And that is only one of the many instances where the “Champion” Hand-
power Concrete Mixers have earned enthusiastic comments from their
satisfied users.
Try it and prove for yourself.
Satisfy yourself by actual test that it DOES mix the concrete more uniformly
and better, and that in actual operation it is more efficient and also easier
to handle than power concrete mixers.
It works without fear of engine stoppage —is easily operated—can be loaded
quickly and without trouble —is portable and easily moved by two men.
Leading Features of Model 1 are quoted:
1. —Two revolutions of drum produces 4 cubic feet of perfectly mixed concrete.
2. —lf while one batch is being mixed in the drum another batch is being
loaded into the hopper, a practically continuous output is obtained.
3. —No dry mixing is needed. The water is thrown direct into the drum.
4. —The drum is charged or loaded at the front and discharges at the back
through the one opening. The drum discharges automatically by merely
reversing the direction of rotation.
5. —Two cleansing doors are provided for cleansing the drum after stopping
work.
6. —The drum is very easily operated by means of a link belt, sprockets and
handle at each end thereof.
7. —The Mixer only weighs about lOcwt., and can be moved about by two
men or hauled to a new job behind a cart or lorry.
8. —The wheels are of steel and are provided with renewable bushings.
9. —The platform measures about 3ft. 6in. x 3lt. 6in., and is carried ou
small travelling wheels.
10. drum is of steel plate, and of liberal proportions.
JIODEE I.—'WITH HOPPER IN POSITION FOR RECEIVING BATCH.
(When desired the Hopper ean.be removed and the platform used for
loading the drum from barrows.)
Fig. 700.—The “CHAMPION” Concrete Worker’s Barrow.
“CHAMPION” CONCRETE BARROWS
AND CARTS EXCEL IN STRENGTH
—DURABILITY AND EASE OF
HANDLING.
For lengthy, satisfactory service they stand
unrivalled —indispensable and practically
indestructible.
The Stamped Steel Trays in the barrows are
seamless, with edge smoothed over a heavy steel
rod, giving great strength of frame to the tray
and preventing the breaking of trays.
With the “Champion'’ Concrete Carts the crown
face of the shell tyres ensures easy turning on
soft ground or on plank runways.
Write and get the full facts. _Ask for lists No.
4 and No. 15, which go into full details.
Fig. 543.—“ CHAMPION” Concrete Dump Cart.
British-Australian Machinery Co. Ltd.,
Union House, 24 7 George Street, SYDNEY.
Union Bank Chambers, BRISBANE
Collins House, MELBOURNE


<SZ// Unanimous
ABBOTS LAGER,
THE DRINK OF GOOD FELLOWSHIP
73r<?b/(>(/from
Pur<?7/a/ti//opr On/p
n
ss
85»
A
“TAFFATWILL' PYJAMAS
PEAPES’ INTRODUCE NEW MATERIAL
“Taffatwill” is a strong cotton material with distinctive Taffeta
finish. It is of medium weight and is particularly suitable for
wear during the Autumn-early Winter seasons.
The pyjamas are made by Peapes’ and cut to correct proportions.
Material used liberally to ensure comfort in wear.
White ground with fancy block stripes of Blue, Ilelio or Purple.
Good value at .... 25/-
(Kngland advises prices for cotton goods doubled in February.
Early ordering is advisable.)
PEAPES' PAY POSTAGE.
Please state height and chest measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ftp
I
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Passing Show of 1920.’’
Criterion “Lightnin’ ”
Paeace “The Little Damozel’’
Tivoli “Buzz Buzz”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COM 1 NG WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Sleeping Beauty”
Royal “Kissing Time”
King's “Mother Hubbard”
Tivoli “As You Were”
llovt's De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Mp.i.ba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciarium Dancing
' ♦ —
“Lightnin’ ” is still on at the Criterion,
but Sydney doesn’t mind rolling in nightly,
to say nothing of Wednesday afternoons,
to enjoy the flashes. So far, the insurance
cos. haven’t raised the fire-risk rates.
Perhaps they will some of these days when
they get old and nervous and the stage
bands become careless through senile decay,
and the J. C. Williamson co. has made its
pile out of imported plays, and retired
without remembering to stop “Lightnin’.”
After a remarkable run at Sydney Palace,
“The Little Damozel” is to be bowed out
by the Tait brothers in about a week, and
on Saturday (13th) the three-act drama
“Kindling,” by Clias. Kenyon, is to be
given a chance to set Sydney alight. It
made a decent blaze in U.S.A. Grogan
McMahon is to produce the piece, and
Emelie Polini will have the support of some
notable old friends, amongst them Maggie
Moore, Olive Wilton, 11. It. Roberts and
G. Kay Souper.
“Buzz Buzz” is still filling Sydney Tivoli
with sound without meaning. Minnie Love
hands out coupons for kisses with an enig-
matical smile; Billy Rego and Gee provide
a few glad moments; and for the rest the
show rests on the graceful legs of the ballet.
“The Bing Boys” . were just negotiating
to buy Sydney Majesty’s outright when
they were ordered to up-sticks and take
the track to the Royal, to make room for
“The Passing Show of 1920,” which sounds
like up-to-the-moment-of-going-to-press revue.
Mary Pickford’s parrot said “Blood,
blood, buckets of blood,”- and Mary be-
comes Captain Kidd Junior, and leaves
the quiet of gran’dad’s second-hand book-
shop to go questing for a treasure which she
and Jim Gleason have read about in one of
the old volumes in stock. Although Scotch,
Mary invests her £4OO in a farm on which
the treasure is buried, and tvhen the secret
is unearthed discovers that it is only a paper
commending honest toil. Just at this point
the farm becomes necessary to a railway
man, and is sold for £4OO0 —and that’s a
profit that even a MacTavish can’t grumble
at. Sydney Globe and Haymarket shrine
Her Ringlets. Mary’s brother Jack is “In
Wrong” at Crystal Palace and Strand. He
starts off by getting a good old-fashioned
whipping from mother, and later on goes
through all the agony of having his little
girl-sweetheart stolen from him by a city
summer visitor in flannels. At Hoyt’s and
the Piccadilly William Farnum follows the
“Jungle Trail.” And next Saturday Ginger
Mick says “Well, how’s she doin’?” to a
Lyceum audience.
“Kissing Time” appears to have many
"The Sleeping
Beauty ,” at Her
Majesty’s, Melbourne.
Eve Lynn, the
principal girl, as
Princess Beauty.
more weeks before
it at Melbourne
Royal. The duet
and dance of Theo-
dore Leonard and
Maude Fane in the
first act is only
one of the musical
items that improve
o n acquaintance,
and the appearance
o f Ralston, vice
Stigant, in the
character of the
conventional elderly
Colonel, has made
no difference to the
success of the
show. One authori-
tative stage person
in military uniform
is so very like an-
other if their
heights agree that
Stigant an d Ral-
ston amount to
m u c h the s a m e
thing.
* * *
Mitchell Lewis,
in “Code of the
Yukon,” is Mel-
bourne Majestic’s
leading figure this
week. As Jean Dubois, a French-Canadian
miner with an ungratified hunger for
vengeance, he seems likely to keep
the Coroner in fees. But Jean is
not as homicidal as you might think,
sind in several vital places appears to be the
descendant of a long line of __ conscientious
objectors. There are no pacifists, however,
in the Majestic sensation, “The Pirates of
the Sky.” The aggregate combativeness of
the cast equals two Irish election meetings,
and shows up strongly in a terrible air fight,
which, despite its melodrama, is ingeniously
filmed. Hoyt’s headliner is “Putting One
Over,” which allows George Walsh to double
two characters and —using the beautiful lan-
guage of the Bowery to match the title —•
show the chloroform in a right-cross during
some stoush in the last kick. “Be a Sport,”
the second feature, presents Albert Ray and
Elinor Fair in situations that never damage
their fame as comedians. The English Herma
film, “Nature’s Gentleman,” with James
Knight and Madge Stuart as stars, is a
clean, straight story. But the Gentleman's
Nature is inclined to make him a prig.
“Mother Hubbard” continues to uphold
jaw and disorder at Melbourne King’s.
There are few quiet moments in the cheer-
ful show, but there is almost a poetic one
when pink-clad girls blow the flutes of Pan
and present a scene from ancient Greece.
Unhappily the illusion is soon dispelled by a
turn in the music, whereat the damsels,
who began as classic dancers, are soon
wagging their extremities to the syncopated
shudders of an American rag.
#* * *
A Digger’s picture-show:—
George Benson’s sketches of life in the war areas
of Egypt, Palestine
and Fiance are bright-
ening one wall of the
Decoration Gallery,
Melbourne. Benson has
the happy knack of
pouncing on scenes that
combine color with
human interest, and
his hand is so quick to
record the picture that
most of his drawings
have the freshness of
snapshots. Pictorially
he scores heavily with
his Egyptian views,
and whether he depicts
an Arab funeral or a
Cairene blacksmith the
essential points in the
subject are caught.
Cape Gardafui from
two different aspects
furnishes vivid little
sketches, and Gaba
Tepe and the mesh of
trenches on the'Penin-
sula are brilliantly
painted, but bleak
Flanders and bashed
France restore order in
the color-box. There
is a clever silhouette
effect of a mounted
outpost; and it is
easy to linger in front
of a delightful sheetful
of polius and peasants
dashed in with an un- *
faltering pencil.
* * * *
Grim Fair y
Malevolence is still
moaning curses in
the foreground of
“T h e Sleeping
Beauty” at Mel-
bourne Majesty’s.
Margaret Sutcliffe
“Buzz-Buzz” at
Sydney Tivoli.
Comedian George Gee
doing a quaint step.
lias the job of making the wicked
Fairy presentable, but being a Shakspeai'ean
tragedienne the actress seems to be torn
by recollections of Mrs. Macbeth, and gives
her imprecations the wrappings of woe.
Probably if Margaret had been presented
with black wings and a suite of demons
she might have brightened up and uttered
her curses as if she meant them.
A show of water-colors : :
They are Miss Jessie Traill's, exhibited in Temple
Court, Melbourne, and are happy, unaffected impres-
sions painted in Normandy, England and elsewhere.
The artist has devoted most of her time to Normandy,
where old, mouldy chateaus and solemn scenery keep
her color chanting in a dim bass key. Nevertheless
her sketches give genuine pleasure, because of their
evident truth and sincerity and admirable handling of
atmospheric effects. One of her finest performances is
an early-morning view of the Chateau Gaillard, built
by Richard Coeur de Lion in 1196. She has painted
the castle from the village below, and the big brooding
majesty she gives to the pile suggests that she wasn’t
blind to its historical curiosity. Miss Traill depicts
with the necessary sombreness the towers, door and
cloisters of other castles and abbeys, but the con-
fident, flashing manner in which they are presented
shows that she would be equally gifted in picking off
the high lights of a bull-fight or a circus. Some of
her natural vivacity is revealed in “Lombardy
Poplars,” whose queer, autumn-tinted summits leap
aloft in pencils of flame, and she also turns to the
shriller tints in her color-box for her picture of the
“Refugiee” (No. 23). In England she has done
Hyde Park Corner and the downs of Surrey, and
there are bits of Suez and the Spanish Coast,
glimpses of lumber and snow in Canada that arc
worth more than the usual three cheers.
At Melbourne Tivoli there was a change
in the cast of “As You Were’’ last week
owing to Vera Pearce’s sore throat. The
spouse of Sir Bilyon Boost, whose unreason-
able attentions to an imbecile Kiki drive Bil-
yon to a distractive course of “transition
pill”-taking, was impersonated by one of the
Six Beauties, billed as Lalla Da Beare. Ter-
ribly nervous on the first night or two,
the young lady proved a quite-satisfaetory
understudy when she got going, save that
her throat also sounded sore. Her meagre
warble is paved with sweet intentions, and
her gracefulness gets full play in all respects
where it is not obscured by the looseness
of gowns that had seemed to err on the large
side even when Vera wore them. Lalla is
tall enough to carry the profuse habiliments,
however, and her witching smile is an invalu-
able asset in her Ninon de L’Enclos. More-
over this promoted member of the Beauty
Sisterhood has intelligence to match her
smile, and if she be as wise as she seems
she will perhaps induce Bilyon Boost to
change the sad and silly coat he sports in
the opening scene and continues to wear
throughout his transpositions. Bert Clarke
suffers considerably from that forbidding
garment. It aggravates the extreme casual-
ness and easy unimportance of his manner.
He needs an uplifting coat, so to speak,
instead of one that depresses his value.
Everybody looks smart and snappy at one
time or another except Clarke, and nobody
is snappier in personality and artistic en-
deavor than Mione Stewart.
The two bright spots in Adelaide shows
are at Austral Gardens (outdoors), where
the Costume Co. of Harry Borradale does
a lot of concerted work, and at the Majestic,
which supplies a good, all-round variety
performance, with the jolly John Larkin,
the Fentons, Ward and Sherman and other
amusing people in it. Pictures are on the
“intense” side —Theda Bara at the Royal.
Louise Glaum at West’s, a problem ' of
divorce at Wondergraph, and what the Pav.
claims to be a “slice of life,” with Viola
Dana doing the carving.
Winifred Jenner says farewell in song at
the King’s Hall, Sydney, to-night (Thurs-
day). She goes to study with the singing-
teacher Philip Wilson has found for her
in London.
Melbourne was scared by a story that
it was going to lose Fritz Hart. For-
tunately the tale of a job in London was
only some of the chatter of Mrs. Rumor.
The dapper musician is due to leave London
in a fortnig,.!, for Australia by way of New
York.
A proposal to change the venue as well as
the date of the Public Schools (“Head of
the River”) boat race has made a storm
in Geelong, as it is the turn of the Barwon
stream. “Let the Prince of WMes come
to Geelong to see the race” is the solid
local argument. Mackinnon, McWhae and
other Macs in Cabinet, Parliament, clubs
and other places, old boys of the two Geelong
colleges, are at work to prevent a change.
In Lyndhurst Chambers, Sydney, there
is a collection of photographs beautifully
produced and showing dignity of treat-
ment and the artist’s selective eye.
The scenes on the Nile with the
high-masted barges bring back the mys-
tery and romance of the Egypt we read about
before Digger told us of its insect life. There
are Cingalese scenes, and desert and palace
and pyramid; and one or two avenues of
trees, notably about Paris, that are extremely
worth while. The collection expresses the
hobby of ex-Digger Honey.
The just-deceased Sainsbury, chief of
Victorian police, managed to keep his wit
green during his long years in the force.
A detective who had tarnished his reputa-
tion over a simple housebreaking case was
one day called into the Chief and ironically
presented with a volume of Sherlock
Holmes. The ’tec., who knew his Sherlock,
tried to parry the sarcasm by remarking
acidly : “I presume you mean by this little
gift, sir. that I would be a great detective
if I had enough cocaine.” Sainsbury
showed a couple of teeth in the decimal of
a smile. “There ain’t that much cocaine,”
he said.
Freda Sternbig's coo-ee from New York:
Jane Brenan and young sister Eileen arrived after
having a look at Canada. Then Jane flew across the
Atlantic to spend Christmas Day in London, Four-
teen days later back she came to New York to see
what its January could provide. Fourteen days
more and then she went off to get a sample of
Californian sunshine before embarking, with all the
latest jazz, for Melbourne.
Frances Alda —Frances Adler, who used to call
Mrs. Simonsen grandmother—will sing to Aus-
tralia during the month of June, when our Metro-
politan Opera House wears «its linen covers. This
will be the first “Alda return” since the fair-haired
prima donna set out to see what Marchesi thought
of her top notes. The verdict was So good that she
has been playing “lead” ever since. When she
presides over her apartment on 58th-street Alda
is Madame Gazzi Cassassa. Her husband is manager
at the Metropolitan.
“Frank Jay” : Ran into three tall Austra-
lians at the refreshment counter in the
Friars Club, New York, a few days ago.
They were Cyril Keightley (actor), Will
Barnes (artist) and Henry Clive (vaude-
villain). If they had been stretched head
to foot along the counter they would have
wanted 18ft. Sin. of space.
“The Bleeping
Beauty ,” at Her
Majesty's, Melbourne.
Winifred Roma, the
principal hoy, as the
Prince.
II e r Majesty's
management
smirked with sati>-
- faction when the
delayed Ross
Smith turned up
in time for its
Wednesday night
party. The “Sleep
in g Beauty”
crowd had got all
their “flying” gags
ready, and the
house was booked
up by airmen. The
Smiths sat in th“
centre of the
circle and were
stared at and ap-
plauded, and the
rest of the house
was a sea of faces
that put joy into
the heart of the
booking-office. The
panto, dame drew
hysterical plaudits
when she re-
marked on the
flight of Time: she
had seen t w o
knights fly past in
one day! So many
big guns arriving
in Melbourne
make great gala
nights for the
panto. What bite
the attracting stars get at the receipts
isn’t mentioned.
Claude Flemming is probably the first
Australian to be cabled for to fill a star
part in a new London production. He will
play principal baritone opposite Josie Collins
in the new comic opera, “The Southern
Maid,” which follows “The Maid of the
Mountain” at Daly’s.
“Stargazer”: Is smut good business? I
see that one of the pantomimes is adver-
tised as singularly clean, just as if this
were a startling novelty. It certainly does
bear investigation; but there are others,
and hearing three hours of painful strain-
ing on the part of low comedians to drag in
silly innuendo and paltry jest, all based on
sex or something worse, sets me wondering
for the hundredth time why and wherefore.
Does the joke that is calculated to bring a
blush to the hardened cheek of a second-
fiddler attract business? Does anybody go
to the play to hear a grimy jest of a quality
so indifferent that it must necessarily be
less satisfactory even to the people who
like that sort of thing than the common
smoking-room story that is told daily in the
open and without camouflage? I certainly
know of people who are scared from an enter-
tainment by reports of the funny ruffian’s
dalliance with dubious or frankly dirty
themes, but I never yet met with the candid
blackguard who confessed to going to the
theatre in the hope of hearing something
blue. Yet managements go on permitting
the comic object to interpolate his prurient
bits, and it is the boast of managements
that they know what the public wants. “Pay
Dirt” would be a suitable sub-title for one
show I have in mind just now—assuming, of
course, that dirt does pay.
“Plutarch”: Liza Lehmann, the composer,
tells in her “Life” how she might have mar-
ried into Reuters. At the age of ten she
became engaged to Baron de Reuter’s son
George, of about the same age. They quar-
relled and parted on the question of the
education of the girls in the family which
they proposed to have. She was present
when Browning was persuaded by Edison
to recite “How They Brought the Good
News” into a new invention, the phono-
graph. Half-way through Browning forgot
his lines, but with some prompting he was
able to go on. Laurence Housman (author
of “An Englishwoman’s Love Letters” and
some better books) provided a “Vicar of
Wakefield” libretto to 'go with Madame Leh-
mann’s music. In Hdusman’s absence his
work was altered considerably. He dis-
avowed authorship, and, according to a
Daily Chronicle report which is quoted,
the piece was “rendered unique by an epi-
sode whieji is happily rare in theatrical his-
tory—rthe'expulsion of its author from his
private box on the first night.” The man-
ager, Frank Curzon, gave Housman notice
to quit the box on the ground, that he had
“ ‘laughed derisively’ during one of the
moments of sentiment in the first act.”
On her first American concert-tour Madame
Lehmann was greatly fatigued after a rail-
way journey of several days and nights, and
telegraphed to New York that at such a
rate she could not continue. The impres-
ario wired back —“Regret cannot alter size
of U.S. for you.—Johnston.”


CHUNDER’S PRESENT TO THE PRINCE OF
WALES,
CO OR
Cop,
iy
•U
Co
8F
fm I u
COR
6
o
$ bri
V- 7 1
m
m
COR
*4
Co B
"V
ho
is
iil.
,-■
(!>
0
(
n
1
f*
m
gas®
■ V
\\
hy
m
i
°s
yr^
&
u
H
o-.
C>
CO 5
T
CO $
Z
*p
m
mmmm
3
ii
Cobl*2l,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo
Is always loyal,
Through and through.
When t he heard
Prince Edward say
He was coming
Out this way. .**
Chunder had the
Goods on hand
Teddy needs on
Sea or land.
Now, where’er the
Prince may dine
He will have
A “COBRA” shine!


WA
MAIL YOUR ORDER NOW FOR
COSY GARMENTS FOR WINTER
AT SPECIAL PRICES.
THIS ALL-WOOL SWEATER
SPECIAL
PRICE
811
Just about the cosiest garment you
could possibly have, handy for when
the cold winds begin to blow. Its
an all-wool Sweater that will cover your body
in warmth. In serviceable grey; buttons on
shoulder, easy to slip on.
Sizes 34, 36, 40 inch chest.
Regular Value, 10/6.
SPECIAL
PRICE
8 11
WRITE
FOR
FINNEY
NEW
FASHION
BOOK
DE LUXE
EDITION .
THIS ALL-WOCL COAT SWEATER
SPECIAL
PRICE
13/11.
You’ll need a cosy Coat Sweater this
coming Winter —and here’s a fine
chance to secure it—at a saving of
several shillings. In serviceable Navy Blue,
all wool—and Australian made.
Sizes 36 and 40 inch chest.
Jtegular Value, 15/6.
SPECIAL.
PRICE
13/11.
Finney, Isles & Co. Ltd
THE BIG BLOCK
BRISBANE
wr.
hi!
y f
n
§
POVERTY
POINT
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
A SPOILT EVENING.
THE PROFITEER'S WIFE : “Fearfully jealous
crowd the Smiths! They didn't men-
tion profiteering once the whole even-
ing.”
“M.P.A.”: “Snowy” Baker in “The
Enemy Within,” “The Lure of the Bush”
and the “Man from Kangaroo” has re-
peated his stunts practically without varia-
tion. “The Enemy Within,” his first
picture, left him with nothing new to do.
His horsemanship is splendid; his swim-
ming and diving entertaining; his all-in
fights have plenty of thrill and vim. But
in the close-ups he is a piece of carved
red-gum. The flapper who sits in front
and enjoys the stunts of Douglas Fairbanks
is entertained from two angles. She gets
a thrill now and again fi’om a clever fake-
stunt and then a close-up of Doug, with
his pleasing smile and personality. That
Snowy can outstunt Fairbanks and all the
other Yanks who tackle the agile business
on the screen there is no denying, but
he can never get a public like the others
because he has no sex pull and lacks charm.
Bill Hart may have a lip like a motherless
foal and is an ugly man as men go; but
what does that matter —he has a big screen
personality and magnetism, or what passes
for it in front of the camera. And that
shows what it is that counts. Baker fails
very badly in conveying emotion or giving
any light and shade in what he intends to
be expressions. He should _ take to the
mirror, where he can train himself to look
angry or sorry for himself as the case
demands.
“Belle Canto”: Young Darvall Thomas
will be able to supply Filippini or any other
grand-opera promoter with a very useful
tenor. He sang minor roles in Australia
with Quinlan, with whom his father, Dar-
valli, was a principal. Darvalli p&re and
his boy left Beecham in London and steered
for the Chicago Grand Opera Co., and were
aboard the Titanic when she took her tragic
plunge. The experience kept them out of
the cast for five weeks. The second time
the pair sang with the Chicago crowd ’flu
put 57 of the 74 members out of commis-
sion, among them Darvalli, the father, who
succumbed. The son came on to Australia
at the tail-end of the fatal year.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: The 10 years
1855-65 were, I think, the most brilliant in
the history of the Australian stage. Lon-
don had but one equal to Lambert and
Rogers as exponents of such comedy char-
acters as Sir Peter Teazle, Sir Anthony
Absolute, Mr. Hardcastle (“She Stoops to
Conquer”), Lord Ogleb.v and Old Dornton.
That one equal was William Farren. Yet
Lambert and Rogers differed widely in their
treatment of these parts. Lambert was the
courtly town man, Rogers the rough-and-
ready country baronet. As Hardcastle
Rogers was beyond doubt the superior; but
he could not approach Lambert as Ogleby
or Old Dornton. As an all-round actor G.
R. Rogers was the better —you could not
misplace him: he ranged from Sir Anthony
Absolute to the Widow Twankey. In
Shalispearean characters Lambert was
ahead. His Toby Belch, Speed and Polonius,
etc., were pre-eminent. Contemporary with
these we had William Hoskins and Frede-
rick Younge, who had both earned fame
under Phelps at Sadlers Wells. The only
English actor of the day who surpassed Hos-
kins in his particular line, eccentric comedy,
was Charles Mathews. While Barry Sulli-
van was playing Shakspeare and high-class
drama with a double company at the Royal
in Melbourne, Charles Kean and his wife
were playing at the Haymarket. Coppin
raked Australian cities for stock actors in
support, though Kean brought with him his
wife (Ellen Tree), Miss Chapman, J. F.
Cathcart and Mi’. Everett. Some of the best
stock actors were induced to assume minor
characters in order to give 6clat to the
Keans, who brought letters of introduction
to the Governor of Vic., Sir Charles Dar-
ling, the latter being “commanded” to assist
the tour of the Keans in all ways possible.
This lie did. even going so far as to refuse
to attend Barry Sullivan’s performance at
the Royal while the Keans were in the city.
More contrasts were offered when Walter
Montgomery was at the Roval and James
Anderson —of the old school —was at the
Haypiarket, each playing the same rSles,
and drawing big audiences in consequence.
“The Clown”: Verbrugghen is annoyed
at the “unscrupulous” hotelkeepers in Maori-
land who treated his orchestra as “members
of a travelling circus.” He also says his
co. was subjected to great discomforts on
the railways. Why a circus should be
treated with less consideration than
the man who tinkles the triangle
Verbrugghen knows best; but concerning the
discomfort of railway travelling I rise to
record that I once went from Sydney to
Brisbane by train with a rather famous
orchestra, and it was H—l. We had the
double-bass, who brought his dog-house with
him, in our compartment. Near by were
the cornetist with his instrument of torture,
and several others. As the spirit (or beer)
moved them these musicians evoked horrible
noises, and we never entered or left a station
during the whole maddening 28 hours with-
out brazen discord. It was an unforgettable
nightmare. Verbrugghen ■wails because his
orchestra wasn’t provided with a special
train. Travelling orchestras should be
compelled to travel by special trains, like
Wirth Bros.’ menagerie.
“Old Pot”: Conway Tearle, the Ben Hur
of the original production of General Lew
Wallace’s story at Sydney Majesty’s, is doing
well in films in America. Tearle was over-
weighted as Ben Hur and his style was
crude, hut judging by his screen work he
has improved with age and experience, and
has now an easy style. Walter Bentley and
Osmonde Tearle, Conway’s stepfather, were
contemporaries in Scotland, where Bentley’s
father, Dr. Begg, was a prominent meenister.
Walter tells that on the Sabbath prior to
his first appearance in the Scottish capital
dad preached a sermon on the Prodigal Son.
“Bally Who”: Countess Magri died
recently, aged 7G. As a girl she was Lavinia
Warren Bump; then till his death in
1883 she was the wife of that General
Tom Thumb whom P. T. Barnum
exploited with such success. At no
period of her life did she weigh more
than 301 b., and at 70 she didn’t need hair-
dye. Her second husband was an Italian
dwarf whom she married in 1885. Her death
occurred in the mansion Tom Thumb built
for her, and which was constructed especi-
ally for midget requirements. She was 56
years in the show' business, and visited Aus-
tralia with hubby No. 1.
“BUZZ BUZZ ,”
AT SYDNEY
TIVOLI.
Arthur Aldridge sings of hull fights and
lore affairs.
“Ike Pagliacci”: Before me is a London
Coliseum poster *on which there are only
two names. Equal prominence is given to
them. One is Bruce Drysdale, the other J.
W. Cunningham. Drysdale is an Australian
who was many times dame in “tent” panto-
mimes in Australia, but never got on the
pay-roll of any of the big managements. His
most notable metropolitan engagement was
at Sydney Princess’s. He went a-soldiering,
and on December 20 last completed a three
years’ contract with the A.I.F. Though he
found work not so plentiful in his own
country, he is booked in London till June,
1921.
“Vaudeville Vet” : English artists are be-
ginning to think that Australia is getting a
bit more than its share of vaudeville engage-
ments. Billy Wells (who was an assistant
to a hypnotist in Australia) continues to
make good with the Eclaire Twins (who
were the Anderson sisters in Sydney
suburbs) ; Decima and Eddie Mac Lean were
the best things in “Eastward Ho,” and
brother Ray is dancing successfully in the
Lyceum pantomime. Jack Hagan is prin-
cipal comedian in the provinces for Sir Alf
Butt, and his pa and ma fMartyn Hagan
and Lucy Fraser) positively refuse to have
Father Time around the premises and —at
their time of life, too! —have put up a
brand-new act with a bit of jazz to it.
“Old Pot”: Emma Temple and Bessie
Major, two of the most accomplished
comedy actresses who have appeared in Aus-
tralia, came to this country with Mrs.
Robert Brough, and they were in the cast
of “La Petite Mademoiselle” and “lolanthe.”
Bessie Major was in the chorus; Emma
Temple was one of the three fairies in
“lolanthe,” the others being Aggie Kelton
and Ida Osborne. As an example of the all-
round abilities of the actresses of those days
(1885), Emma Chambers, an excellent
soubrette, was lolanthe, and Nellie Stewart
was Phyllis. Although it is usually said
that the late Tom Grundy, who married the
Firm’s wardrobe mistress, Emily Nathan,
was the original Private Willis in Sydney,
that is not the case. The first was William
Webbe, who made a great hit in the Guards-
man’s song. When Brough and Boucicault
combined forces and started a burlesque com-
pany with Teddy Royce and Fanny Robina.
as the stars from abroad and Brough as
Jonathan Wild, Emma Temple was a pro-
minent member of the cast, and her work
suggested the artist she proved to be.
The English Actors’ Association has
arranged a standard contract with the Lon-
don West End managers. Minimum salary
is to be £3 for a week; payment is to be
made for rehearsals of non-musical plays at
10s., and, in the case of musical ones. £2
a week for the first four weeks and after
that 10s.; plays to be produced within a
week of date specified in the contract, other-
wise full salary to start; eight nerformances
a week, with extra pay for additional per-
formances ; engagements to be for the run
of the piece and not less than six weeks.
Managements are to provide actresses with
gloves, shoes and dresses, and no actor need
have more than three modern suits if he is
earning £lO per week, and not more than
one if he is earning less.
“P.H.C.”: The Bulletin’s par re the
benefit in London to Charles Coborn recalls
that at Weymouth (Eng.) early in 1917.
when thousands of Australians were camped
there, it was the custom to have a free
show once a week. At one of these Coborn
old and staggery, appeared. One of his
items was “Monte Carlo,” and the bold pre-
sentation of it by the old favorite was
greeted by a thousand Digger voices in the
chorus. Coborn was astonished, until he
remembered that his old friend ’Arry
Ilickards took the song to Australia 30 years
ago.
“Fillum” : Australia has lately been visited
by a so-called film pantomime—“Aladdin”—
which turned out to be the usual Yankee
Wild West fake tacked on to the' old
Arabian Nights romance. Why can’t a
real Australian panto, be filmed and sent
around the towns and villages that never get
the chance to see one? Hasn’t the J.C.W.
firm any initiative? The cino. representa-
tion of the annual panto, about Christmas
time in the many towns that never 'see a bit
of the traditional tinsel would pay hand-
somely. And as far as I Can see the Firm
asks nothing better than that!
“Spud” : The Bailey-Grant co., lately in the
Victorian provinces, is to tour Tasmania
after an absence of half a dozen years with
“On Our Selection,” “Duncan Maclure” and
“Gran’dad Rudd.” In the absence of Bert
Bailey in I/ondon, Ned Duggan now waves
the whiskers of Dad and Gran’dad, and
wears the wee bit kilt of Duncan.
Bundaberg and Townsville music “fans”
are squabbling as to Gladys Moncrieff’s
birthplace. Bundaberg is winning by a
semi-quaver.
“O. Blin”: Regarding Rignold’s large
capacity for disremembering faces instanced
by “Peter” (B. 26/2/’2O), I recall him
forgetting a well-known Sydney man once
too often. The two had met many times,
but on being formally presented to George
for the umpteenth time, it was the Sydney
man who forgot their old acquaintance.
Turning to the amazed tragedian he said
blandly: “I seem to have read or heard of
your name somewhere, Mr. Rignold.” Then
after a pause of beautifully simulated be-
wilderment he added: “Tell me, Weren’t you
once an actor?” Handed to handsome
George at the height of his popularity it
was one of the neatest clouts he ever
received.
Prom London: —
Fred Leslie was the wicked magician uncle to
Jennie Benson’s Aladdin in a London panto, at
Christmas. He is now known, by the way, as
Fred A. Leslie, because another Fred, son of
the old Gaiety favorite, is coining to the front,
mostly in what are known as Grossmith parts. Dion
Boucicault has again revived “Peter Pan”; Geor-
gette Cohan is the new Peter, and G. W. Anson is
in the cast. Another hardy annual is “Charley’s
Aunt,” played twice a day at the Royal, where
London first saw it long ago. Ada Ferrar, the
first heroine in Australian productions of “Sign of
the Cross” and “Prisoner of Zenda,” has come down
to playing Charley’s real aunt, who drops in towards
the end of the farce. A pretty trifle, “Where the
Rainbow Ends,” which Australia has not yet seen,
is as successful and regular a Christmas revival
as any of the others. Martin Harvey, putting on
“Hamlet,” tries a throw-back to Shakspeare’s own
day: the small part of the Player Queen is taken
by a boy, Ellen Terry’s grandson, one of the Gordon
Craig family.
“Moulins”; “Seymour” (B. 5./2/’2O) asks
about “Saltbush Bill.” He is now touring
England after doing bis
boomerang-throwung stunt before the King.
Bill tried to enlist in the A.I.F. and later in
the Canadian Army, but the prospect of Salt-
bush Willie charging like an elephant across
No Man’s Land (he weighs 22 stone) and
dealing out scientific flicks across the rear
portion of Fritz was too much for the heads
and his services were declined. “Seymour”
suggests that whip-cracking is rather a dud
game. All I can say is that Saltbush Bill
has carried his assortment of tricks into
most corners of the world and done pretty
well at it.
“Bally Who”: “Carlton” (B. 19/2/’2O)
had the Devil’s own job locating freaks for
his “cod” hypnotic act. He offered Egan
Cannon, the monstrous German, an equally
monstrous salary to speak 10 lines. Cannon
refused to leave his little suburban cafe in
Berlin, where he was employed to sit still
and be gazed at by customers at a salary of
all the beer he could drink. Later this
same sGst. German consented in a weak
moment to make a trip to Australia. He
was put aboard a P. and O. boat and the
berths in one cabin were removed to make
room for him. He wallowed on the floor
through the whole voyage and cursed the
day he entered the show business. In Aus-
tralia he travelled in luggage-vans, and
ultimately returned to Germany on a cargo
boat a bit ahead of the time the Kaiser
broke loose. His internment in Australia
would have provided the Defence Depart-
ment with a heart-breaking job.
THE CRITIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
John Henry was a gloomy soul;
He took no pleasure gaily.
He filled, poor chap, the deadly role
Of critic on a daily.
He saw an endless round of plays,
And sought the circle nightly,
Attended all the matinees
To write of actors sprightly.
John Henry hated these full sore:
His boredom it was deadly
At panto, drama, op’ra or
A vaudevillian medley.
He loathed alike all actor chaps
With honest purpose toiling;
They’d be improved, he said, perhaps
By some judicious boiling.
But fate had willed it that poor John
Must write his usual column
In praise of plays—in pouring on
The actors quaint or solemn
An endless stream of slushy jam.
Successive pats of butter
He must provide, and never damn
A frost, however utter.
Then came the day when curious chance
Sent John to do a hanging.
He saw the wretch on nothing dance,
He heard the rope’s grim twanging.
He praised the hangman languidly,
His usual phrases mincing ;
Approved the man’s “calm dignity,”
His style was “most convincing.”
The hanged man. Mr. Jonas Smith,
Was a “unique creation” ;
The clergyman had “favored with
A fine impersonation.”
You know the -phrases that they write —
T need not further quote his.
In short, John gave the hanging quite
A favorable notice.
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


Saunders-’ Diamond Cluster Three-bar Bracelet, 15et.
Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut'
Diamond Ring
ISct. Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders'
Double-cut
Diamond Cro c s-
over Ring, ISct.
Gold, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Cross-
over Ring, lSct,
Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’ Diamond Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
Isct. Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Circle
Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £80.
A. Saunders’
Emerald and
Double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £25.
A Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Double-cat Diamond-
set Expanding Wristlet Watch, full jewelled, lever
movement, £l7/10/-. Extra quality, £22/10/-
Wm
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Solid Gold Hunting
Kevless Lever, £l2/10/-, £l5, £2O,
£25, £3O, £4O, £5O, Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Circle
Brooch, loct.
Gold, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18et. Gold,
£l5.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’ double row Diamond Bracelet, 15ct. Gold,
£75. Larger Diamonds, £95.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Trefoil
Bing, 18et. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Ring,
ISet. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Cluster
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£lO.
A. Saunders’ Double-cut Diamond Knife-edge
Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £7/10/-
Smaller Diamonds, £5, £3/10/-, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Double-cut. Diamond Bar Brooch,
15et. Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ Double-cut
Diamond Necklet, 15ct.
Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’
Pearl-set Scarf
Pin, 15ct. Gold,
25/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold
Links, set Pure Diamond,
£3/10/-
Larger Diamond,
£4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full jewelled, lever movement, com-
pensation balance, £B/10/-
Others, £4/10/-, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-
£lO, £l2/10/-, £l5.
A. Saunders’ 15et. Gold
Links, set Pure Diamond,
£B/10/-
Larg-er Diamond, £4/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 GEORQE STREET, Opp. Railway Station, SYDNEY.
————
A. Saunders'
Double-cut
Diamond S an
Pin, 15ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’
Double-cut
Diamond Necklet,
15ct. Gold, £lO.
No Corners
to Clog in—
CHAMPION” Seamless Earth Scoops
With “CHAMPION” Patent
Shafts and Automatic End
Gates, Steel or Wood Wheels.
This one advantage should decide you in their favor, for you know as
well as we do the trouble experienced with scoops made with joints
and rivets.
In “Champion” Earth Scoops the bowls are pressed from a single sheet of
specially-hardened steel plate—the cutting edges being most carefully
ground to ensure quicker and more satisfactory results for their users.
In addition the bails are of steel with correctly working swivels made
of high-quality steel.
The steel runners fitted on the under side of the bowls mean increased
efficiency and longer life.
You can use a “Champion” Scoop most economically in ploughed or
unploughed soil—their improved shape and sturdiness of construction
enabling them to enter the ground easily and quickly.
Fig. 539.—Showing “CHAMPION” Patent Shafts.
“Champion” Patent Shafts greatly increase the
efficiency of wheel scoops.
The Shafts prevent all jar and oscillation from
coming on horses’ necks, shoulders and legs.
The horse, harnessed in the shafts, takes the weight
on its back, as in a tip-dray.
The two outside horses are practically free, and
can use their full strength to fill the scoop and
haul it.
When desirable, two horses may be put in lead
instead of three abreast.
A Contractor’s Opinion.
G. T. ALLNUTT, Contractor, Cheltenham, writes:
“Champion” Patent Pressed Bowl Wheel Earth
Scoops, with shafts, will do almost any work better and
lighter than any scoop I know T of.
The horses have much more power over their work
than with a pole.
I never saw scoop teams so free from injuries as
mine are, with “Champion” Patent Shafts.
Write for
Free Leaflet,
which gives
full details.
SIZES AND APPROXIMATE. DIMENSIONS OF FIG. 541.
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
' I
emmm
Fig. 541. —“CHAMPION” Drag Scoops.
sm
a®*
ft
••■rasgasK
Fig. 542.—Showing the - Liners fixed on “CHAMPION’' Drug: Scoops.
British-Australian Machinery Co. Ltd.
UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. UNION BANK CHAMBERS, BRISBANE. COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &
WtiITTY
MAKERS:
mm
® <>-’ ‘si, vs
£B®s
SE
H
PERA
CIGARETTES
Made in London.
NEW SHIPMENT JUST LANDED.
Obtainable from all first-class tobacco stores, also
B. H. ALTSON PTY., LTD., Melbourne.
R. TOWNS & CO., 16 Loftus Street, Sydney,
Australasian Agents.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
The silence that fell upon Flemington
when Red Rome came clattering home for the .New-
market Handicap was punctured by very fe»v cheers
when her number went up. The mare’s backers were
•some of the intimate followers of Fred Foulsham’s
stable, who had been told to prefer the chance of
the trainer’s own mare Frais to that of stable-
companion Molly’s Robe, but had also been advised
to have a bit on Red Dome, the third hope of his
irio. And this saving clause in the advice was only
insisted upon at the eleventh hour, it seemed. The
daughter of Welkin and Red Streak had run no-
where at Caulfield on the preceding Saturday, and,
1 hough the luck was then all against her, there was
little encouragement to think of her seriously for the
•Newmarket until she showed brilliance on tire track-
in her winding-up gallops. On the morning- of the
race lied Dome did a great sprint for two furlongs.
Foulsham had all his charges very fit for their Feb-
ruary-Marcli engagements, and the recent development
in Red Dome’s speed accounted for the unwillingness
of the books to lay more than 33 to one against her.
The public, however, bad no reason to fancy the
mare. She was sold last year out of the stable of
Holt, whose ideas concerning racehorses are reckoned
exceptionally bright and clear. She cut no tignre in
the Hawksburn Handicap which Lisnavane won so
nicely from Eusebius a week earlier, nor had she
any past form of much importance to her credit.
Gambler’s Gold also was among the very beaten
ones in the Hawksburn Handicap, yet lie finished
with a rush in the Newmarket and captured second
money, whilst Lisnavane was positively whipping-in
the field. Whereby “latest form” was knocked into
the proverbial cocked hat.
After the victory of the outsider the question arose
once again whether the “straight six” course doesn’t
give a distinct advantage to runners on the compara-
tively unused outside as against nags that draw
inside and middle positions. Not one of the first
seven past the post had drawn a lower number than
20. Nineteen of the 28 starters had positions to the
left of Red Dome, Gambler’s Gold, Cetigne, Gold Tie,
Frais, Ready-Aye-Ready and Chrysolaus, the seven
heretofore mentioned. Cetigne was on the extreme
outside, Gambler’s Gold stood four to the left of tin-
old wavrioY, Red Dome was a further four to the
left, and Gold Tie, the nearest of the others
at the finish, drew number 25. The triumph
of the high numbers may have been merely due to
superior speed and slickness on the drawers’ part,
hut the condition of the course was probably a
factor in the result. So many of the straight flutters
at Flemington are won by something that finishes
close to the judge’s box.
As for the poor show made bv Chrysolaus. this
paper can only say that nobody who saw the animal
in the birdcage before the event would have invested
twopence on the poor thing. At 12 o’clock he was
positively screaming for the society of the softer sex.
The grey was then mercifully conducted to Ihe
extremest stall in the further reserve, far from the
madding crowd, Jbut even then he gave himself a
blow' on the head whilst objecting to have his
shoes removed, and for a solid half-hour he was
trying to kick’ the back out of his stall. Then he
quietened down save for an occasional scream. After
the race it was no less apparent that Saturday was
not Chrysolaus’s day for attempting to win a race.
His ability to travel very fast for a short distance
is not denied, but he now seems to have arrived at a
time of life when all such horses should marry and
retire from the turf. He may win a race in Australia
some day—even this week —but he w'ill never be
worth backing until the last minute.
Two bright spots of sporting interest in a grey
day for punters were supplied by Artilleryman and
Cetigne. The three-year-old had, in Whiz Bang and
Sinbad the Sailor, a couple of fine-looking- colts to
make light of. Whiz Bang in particular is conspicu-
ously handsome until he gets beside Artilleryman, and
in the Leger race it seemed that he ran better than
some of the reports made out. His running wide
at the finish appeared to be a device of iockeyship
rather than a sign of distress. Anyhow, it didn’t
bring Whiz Bang nearer than half a dozen lengths
to the w’inner, who looks for the moment unbeatable
in -vv.f.a. events.
Cetigne had an hour and a half’s rest between his
splendid sprint in the Newmarket and his easy
gallop in the Essendon Stakes. Tt was a pleasure
to see the honest old son of Grafton wait upon Wee
Gun and Carriole and then beat them easily within
CO yards of the post. The Essendon Stakes, plus
£250 for third money in the Newmarket, added
another £lOOO to Cetigne’s long score. The apparent
fickleness of his half-sister Lisnavane (they are both
from Pretty Nell) suggests that the old fellow gets
his consistency from the departed sire, whose memory
he is keeping green.
Belting on the Sires’ Produce Stakes was interest-
ing. Trey, the Maribyrnong Stakes winner, was said
to have been suffering from kidney trouble, and the
voice of Ikey bawled 10 to one for a time. Then
the price shortened to nine to two in accordance
with a whisper that Trey was almost as well as
could be wished. The running favored the first
report and put the whisperers to confusion. Gossjne
Hatan won rather easily from Glenaere, whilst Trey
finished sevenlh and last.
Four of the starters in this year’s Newmarket had
previously been placed for the same event. Cetigne
and Molly’s Robe were winners, Sir Ibex ran second
last year, and Wedge finished third in 1918 when he
had to give 71b. to Cetigne and Poitrina.
Gambler’s Gold, who nearly snatched the New-
market with his final run, was kindly handicapped
at 7st. 71b., considering that he won the Maribyrnong
Plate and was always suspected of being a rod in
pickle. Under luckier conditions both the colt and
Cetigne would probably have beaten Red Dome, who
got quickly off the mark and was always in the fore-
front of the field. Being followed by the victory of
his half-sister Gossine Hatan (absurdly clumsy name!)
in the Sires’ Produce Stakes, the performance of this
G.G. was a fine advertisement for Powhatan, their
joint and respective Sire.
Tuesday provided more pork and beans for the
ring, the seven-to-one chance Macadam winning the
Australian Cup from Tenterfiehl and Eastcourt. It
was a day of great races and fine finishes.
Rod Dome didn’t hurt the Sydney fielders.
They were offering 100‘s to one at the Canterbury
meeting, and takers were nearly as scarce as
sovereigns. The worst horses in the Newmarket for
Sydney hooks were Ohrysolaus, Cetigne and Gold Tie.
“Fitzroy” : The Rockhampton Jockey Club
has decided to ask Ihe organisers of the visit of the
Prince of Wales to Bananaland to make arrange-
ments for him to run up to the northern- town —
provided the excursion doesn’t clash with the club’s
racing fixture. “Your ’lghncss is welcome, hut for
Cord’s sake don’t come on our busy days.”
The Jackson Stakes at Wanganui (nI.L.)
went to W. R. Keniball's
wit Hymestra. It was
thought to be a good thing
for Silver Link. The Hy-
ing daughter of Achilles
was said to be unlucky in
losing the Egrnont Stakes
to Surveyor early in the
month. In that race
Hymestra, who ran third,
was never given a chance
against the first two. In
the Wanganui Stakes
Handicap the ancient
Client beat the Australian
mare Tiamai (The Nut —
Lady Molly). Her dam is
by the Melbourne Cup
winner Aurmn. Arrow-
smith (imp.), who ran
second (o Bo Peep in the
Farewell Handicap, had
previously beaten the mare
in the Cambridge Handi-
cap under 9st. 51b. and
did the six furlongs in
Imin. 13 2-ssec. The
horse is very highly
thought of in the Rickety
Isles. Some compare him
to Gloaming.
JAMES WILSON,
the well-known
Victorian owner.
In tlie Hurdle race at Gawler (S.A.)
Rothiemay funked one of the jumps and attempted
to run off. This resulted In a general mix-up,
during which Waltowa was carried on to the wing,
broke it down, and galloped over it. Waltowa’s
jockey, Mooney, one of S.A.’s best riders over the
sticks, was rather diffident about continuing the
race, thinking he might be fined for missing a
hurdle. So he didn’t put in. On inquiring from
the officials afterwards he was told that the wing
was a portion of the hurdle, and that AValtowa had a
perfect right to continue in the race. Mooney
reckoned he could have won comfortably if he had
known—which was a great consolation to backers of
his mount.
* * * *
Digger Evans, Australian soldier pug,
keeps on climbing the ladder of fame in the
Temple of Stoush. His affray at the Rusheuttevs
Bay stadium (Sydney) on Saturday with Jamito,
the gentleman who brought a heavy wallop from
Manilla, vras a hair-raising disturbance that kept
a crowd of 15,000 on the yell from box-on to bene-
diction. Jamito is a formidable person with an
unpleasant yearning to exchange clout for clout at
close quarters; the Digger is an elusive, awkward
apparition addicted to changing his address like a
mosquito. They went at one another like infuri-
ated cats. For a dozen rounds the Filipino was
stung continuqpsly; by a wicked right which arrived
like a streak of lightning from the place the
exasperated darky supposed had been evacuated. But
he took what came to him well, and when Evans
began to tire started serving out bash on his own
accdfiut. Most of it was badly timed, though, and
the Digger livening up towards the end was stinging
him like a hive of bees. In the last round Manila
was absorbing 16 hits per second. Joe Wallis
handed Evans the bun without hesitation. This
Digger has solved the problem of repatriation with
one punch.
O. E. Pellew saved South Aus. from a
bad walloping by Victoria at Adelaide in the final
match of the season. Vic. led off by compiling 406,
towards which Ryder (87), Hansford (71), I.am-
pard (66) and Moves (55) did the lion’s share. At
the sight of this tally S. Aus. crumbled in the first
innings for 178, and followed on. Then Pellew
gripped both the handle and the Vie. bowling and
made 271. It was
a fine innings, and,
as a S. Australian 1
effort ranks next
best to Clem Hill’s
365 v. N.S.W. in
1900, and equal to
George Giffen’s
score v. Victoria
in 1891. Pellew
was in the recently-
disbanded A.I.F.
eleven, and in the
tour in England,
S’Africa and Aus-
tralia scored 1754
runs, averaging 30.77, his
centuries being 105 v.
Cambridge Uni., 10(5 v.
Surrey, 187 v. Leicester
and 105 v. Worcester. He
also helped S. Aus. in
1913-14 and 1914-15 Shef-
field Shield cricket. In
the latter season Ryder
(Vic.), with 425, and
Warren Bardsley (N.S.W.),
with 324, alone had bigger
aggregates than Pellew’s
287. Another of the familv,
champion-sprinter L. E.
Pellew, lifted a bat for S.
Aus. in this match.
PETER
McALISTER the
Vic. veteran cricketer.
Saturday was the first day of the tenth
round of Sydney grade cricket. Western Suburbs
against Balmain have eight wickets in hand and
need only 09 runs to win. The only bright spot in
Balmain’s innings was Thomas’s batting. He got 60
brilliantly. Wests’ batting was a praiseworthy change
and Dive got five for 70 for the side. .Macartney
frightened the North Shore batsmen with the excep-
tion of Frendin and Punch. Frendin knocked up 415
and the colt got 44. Mac’s bowling (six for 65) was
remarkably accurate considering ids lack of practice.
Against Middle Harbor Coogau, of Cumberland,
on ted six for 97. (lee, of M.H., missed a century
by D) runs and Hogue contributed a good 74. Cum-
berland need 283 to win. Asher and Cohen saved
.Sydney against the onslaught of Paddington. Cohen
got 44 out of 130 and Asher’s bowling (five for 36)
was catastrophic. The Uni., with the exception of
Boyce (73), could not stand up to the bowling of
lvelleway (six for 47), and gave Glebe the moderate
score of 190 to beat. Glebe fell to the rattle of six
for 49. Lawes bagged, five for 18. Petersham and
Waverley each completed an innings of their match
and tlie former led by 15 runs. Kippax (50) was
the only Waverley batsman to hold up Adams (four
for 48) and Thatcher (four for. 56).
Mainly through the brilliancy of Itohs-
burn, who made 113, North gave the M.C.C. their
first licking on Saturday. It was only a first-hits
win by 15 runs over a side that lacked the help
of Armstrong and Hansford, but, all the same, it
was a creditable performance. Uni., who scored a
first-innings victory by 76 over ’Hoy, fell heavily
in a second try, and registered only 117. Cannon
took 7 for 52, and Atkinson, an impromptu wicket-
keeper, startled the two or three spectators by
stumping five and catching another behind. O’Hara,
who guarded the sticks for the students, caught one
and stumped two, and, like Atkinson, never had a
sundry recorded against him. Collingwood found
P’ran’s 7 for 273 (declared closed) beyond then-
reach ami finally threw in the towel, 91 in arrears.
Though Saints made 226, Northcote won easily by
six wickets and 91. ’Cote’s consistent bat Yeomans,
who seems to be ignored by the selectors for bigger
cricket, made 142 n. 0.. and Carroll, a former inter-
Stater, rattled up 112 in under two hours. Kich-
mond got the decision over Essendon by 108 on the
first innings, but Essendon were notablv weakened
by the absence of Moves and Mullett with the Vic.
team in Adelaide. The Carlton v. South fixture
ended in a draw strongly in favor of the former.
Carlton declared with 8 for 363 (Sutherland 140
n. 0.) and South were 9 for 205 when hostilities
were suspended.
* * * *
Cricket honors in Adelaide have been
shared all the season by East Torrens and Sturt,
the former always just a shade ahead by reason
of a lucky win when they first met. The return
game lately was all in favor of the Eastern men.
Arthur Richardson, Townsend and Middleton made
most of the runs, and Stirling, lately of the
A.1.F., was a big addition to the bowling. Nothing
but the much-improved' University seems likely to
threaten East Torrens’s grip on the premiership.
* * * *
South Aus. tried a fresh deal in its last
match of the cricket season, considering justly that
it could hardly do worse than in the previous three.
Gtin's, as selector, dropped himself from the team.
Stirling-, Whitty, Steele and Willsmore were all
unable to play, and several others of the .side which
visited Melbourne and Sydnev were given a rest.
There are plenty of young batsmen showing promise,
but the bowling is a bigger problem even than
usual. If there is a first-rate coach in another State
he ought to apply for a job in Adelaide.
A man who takes a week to do the hat-
trick might be described as the slowest bowler on
record. But it just happened so to Bartlett, of the
Adelaide club. He took two Glenelg- wickets with
consecutive balls on Saturday, and then stumps
were drawn. A week later play was resumed, and
he collected his third victim with the first ball he
sent down.
Norman Ross had a final plunge at Coogee
(Sydney) last- Friday, and the effort made a mess
of the world’s records from 500 metres to one mile.
The new figures are: 500 metres, Gmin. 50 2-ssec.;
880yds., llmin. 15 3-ssec.; 1000yds., 12min. ssec.;
1320yd5., 17min. 14 3-ssec.; and mile, 22min.
5 2-ssee. The last is an improvement of 18 2-ssee.
on B. Kievan’s figures, which have stood since 1900
The A.S.A. timekeepers vouch for the performance.
It was an effort which stamped the sturdv
Yankee as quite triie to world’s-ehampionship label.
In a mile paddle at Claremont (W.A.)
Frank Beaurepaire landed the Australian champion-
ship from M. Christie (N.S.W.) and Sid Spring-
field (Q.) in 24min. losec. The training for the
meetings with Ross in Victoria and S. Australti
has brought Beaurepaire back to his old form.
Maoriland swimming championships at
Auckland didn’t alter the record-book. In the mile
L. Hill (Canterbury) won from J,. O. Kronfeld
(Auckland) in 26min. 45sec.; C. Atkinson (Canter
bury) took the 220yds. breast-stroke in 3mi>,
9 4-osec. ; Violet Walrond (Auckland) won the
100yds. ladies' championship in 71 4-ssec., an M.L.
record; and G. Walrond was first in the 50yds
schoolgirls’ hustle in 35sec. An old-time item was
the plunge, which J. Cameron (Hawkes Bay) won
with 62ft. Gin. —-10ft. behind the Australasian record
of J. Strickland, put up in Melbourne in 1880.
* * * »
Fanny Durack showed a return to form
in landing N.S.W. 100yds. ladies’ swimming cham-
pionship at Sydney on Saturday in 71 2-ssec. Mina
Wylie, who won the 100yds. Australian title a few
weeks ago, was three yards away, with schoolgirl
’M. McDonald just awash. Compared with her own
world’s record (66sec.), Miss Durack's effort was on
the slow side.
In the senior events for girls at the
P.S.A.A.A. swimming championships at Sydney last
week, M. Mealing won the 100yds. All Schools’ title
in 84 1-osec. and the 75yds, Primary Schools’ title
in 58 4-ssec. The young champion won similar titles
last year.
“Pongo”: As the N.S.W.A.S.A. officials
have not made any comment concerning the roasting
Norman Ross got when he appeared attired in a
bath robe for his first-race in the Domain baths
recently, I feel it up to me to quote Rule 20.
which refers to competitors racing under the Ass.’s
auspices. The rule reads:—
“At all public carnivals, the competitors must go
cloaked to the starting post.”
This rule has never been enforced in my recollec-
tion, but it.stands; and, had the costume stewards
at the carnival known and done their dutv, Ross
would have been the only competitor entitled to
go on the starting board. As a matter of fact, not
one competitor in 10 at the carnival complied with
the costume requirements as laid down by the
Association.
“Pongo’’: Norman Iloss, who concluded
his Australian swimming engagements on Friday
bv giving a series of exhibition spins, made aii
attempt to wipe out records from 500yds. to a
mile at Coogee Aquarium in a bath 33}yds. long.
According to the rules laid down by the Inter-
national Swimming Federation, all attempts on
records of distances over 500 metres must be made
over a 100yds. course, lienee the records he did
succeed in making can only count as Australian.
In view of the diversity of opinion as to whether
Ross is better than Kieran was in the water, it
was reasonable to expeet that the American would
have swum distances for which Kieran held records
in baths of the same length as those used by-
Australia’s dead champion. Ivieran's 500yds. record
(which Ross was unsuccessful in breaking) and the
mile (which he broke by 18 2-ssees.) were accom-
plished in a 50yds. bath. As mentioned just now,
Ross used a bath with a 33}yds. lap, and it is
estimated that a swimmer who is good in the
push-off gains a yard at every turn. In swimming
the mile Ross made 52 turns as against Ivieran’s 35,
which means that Ross gained 17yds. by turns —
a very modest estimate. Could Ross have equalled
his own time in a bath of 50,vds. laps? It must
not be forgotten that Kieran’s best time for 880yds.,
accomplished under record conditions at Belfast in
1905, was llmin. 2secs., as against Ross’s llmin.
15 3-ssecs. Kieran also swam 880yds. over a 110yds.
course in England in 1905—n0 push-off boards —
in 11.22 secs. Ross’s time for 880yds. on Friday-
over 33Jyds. laps was llmin. 15 3-ssecs. Kieran, in
my opinion, was the better man, and until Ross
boats his times under similar conditions I’ll still
hold to it.
* * * *
Tim old bowlers’ roll-up at Sydney last
week was as pleasurable as usual. Forty-two lads
who had seen 75 summers and more took part; the
average was 78. G. Howard (85) was the elder
brother, and D. Drake, J. C. Waterman and D.
Easton were proud of their 82 years apiece.. The
Bulletin's “Hop” was the infant of the class. He
had just qualified for admission.
Maoriland also recently had its Flour-bag Day,
and 128 of over three-score and ten joined in the
revels. There were 11 on the sward who had passed
four-score years, with John Dewar (Alexandra) the
elder brother, at 85.
Bob Spears’s fine riding was the feature of
the Sydney- Sports Ground cycling carnival on
Saturday. In a special match he defeated Alt
Glenda in two heats out of three, took the five-
mile scratch from Hans Ohrt and O. J. Walker, and
finished third in the half-mile sprint, after winning
a heat in 57 4-ssec. The other whirl on the card
was the N.S’.W. Rugby Union’s six-hours’ team race,
and J. Peddie and T. Little (N.S.W.) won from
S. W. Ramsay and J. Cure (Vic.). The dust of
124} miles was left behind in this event.
* * * •
N.S.W. schoolboy champion Leonard
Bannister (North Sydney High) added the 100yds.
championship of all ’schools and colleges to his list
on Saturday in 10 4-ssec. from schoolmate J.
McManamey and R. Trenerry (Christian Brothers).
He also burst through the worsted (from scratch) in
the P.S.A.A.A. IOOy-ds. handicap in 10 3-ssec. Ban-
nister’s other athletic tastes run to cricket and foot-
ball, and there are few smarter lads with the gloves
in the High Schools.
At a recent conference of the A. A. Union
of Australia and Maoriland the matter of jumping at
the tapes in foot-racing came up for consideration.
In view of the fact that W. W. Hunt recently won
the lOO.vds. championship by the use of the “jump,”
it was ruled that in future the tape must be fairly
breasted, otherwise the disqualification of the com-
petitor will follow.
THE WINNING HACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The bookmakers had a successful day, as two rank
outsiders won.”
There’th drouth, an’ thriketh, an’ unemployed, an’
Parli’ment’ry crankth,
An’ houth-renth, lOU’th, an’ H. Thee L.
An’ all the plagueth of Egypt, but we give our
grateful thankth
That, in thpite of all, the bookth it h doin’ well.
We dare the thtorm, an’ brave the oddth, or lay ’em,
day by day,
Ath manfully we bear the heavy hag;
Though th’ tote'th in oppothition, yet we're very
pleathed to thav
We thtill motor ’omc each evenin’ with the thwag.
An’ thtill we’ll tlitruggle gallantly to earn an hupetht
crutht,
An’ cothtly gemth our fingertli to adorn;
Yetli, I think it mot lit unlikely that th’ Ring will ever
butht,
Every minnit there’th another punter, born !
x.s.w.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


If You Want to Enjoy
Glorious Health
—to secure for yourself. energy, power, vitality and success
-—you must have every function working perfectly and
harmoniously, and in order to keep your body in good
repair it is necessary to practise regular exercise. There
are many muscles of the body—internal and external- which
in the usages of modern life do not get sufficient exercise
to keep them toned up, therefore, without the aid of correct
physical culture they become flabby, inactive and full of
neurotic poisons.
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture
will provide you with the exercises necessary to keep every
muscle and organ in perfect order. The secret of my success
is that I give every pupil strict personal attention in pre-
scribing treatment—thus in adopting my course you would
receive exercises most suitable to your individual physique,
just as the particulars you furnish tell me you require.
Write to-day for a FREE copy of my booklet, “Health and
Strength from Self-Culture,” which tells all about my
methods, fees, etc. Just write your name and address across
this advertisement and send it to me with three stamps to
cover postage.
REG. L.( snowy >BAKER,
Natural Health and
Physical Culture
Expert,
208 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
SIR ROSS SMITH
takes no risks.
He uses
U/nCEFIELD
Rege/.
MOTOR. OIL I
What is your
lubricant?
C.C. WakcfieldS Co. Ltd.
5 Moore Street, SYDNEY.
and LONDON.
■ 19 9 -
r.-U "
Wm
:■ 1
H
SheuJ
Witt
Be particular
about the spirit you use.
You’ll GET THE BEST if
you ask for—
IM a
Obtainable Everywhere.
■
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAFI ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL ]!L POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNF.
THE (i. NERAL MANAGER,
AIOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY
Box 220 G.P.0..„
SYDNEY.
Influenza Stalks Abroad.
America! Japan! Poland! Where next? Our Federal
authority s are already taking precautions, and you as an
individual should do likewise. Keep a bottle of Greathead’s
near you to use as directed at the slightest symptoms of Sore
Throat, Feverishness or Chill. This time-honored remedy for
Influenza, Sore Throat, Quinsy. Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis and
all complaints that affect the throat and bronchial tubes has
been curing for over 45 years. Do away with all Influenza
risks by purchasing a bottle to-day. Greathead’s is sold at all
chemists and stores.
GREATHEAD’S MIXTURE.
m
f:
WHEN YOU FEEL
FEET UP WITH CARE
When you feel all the go has been knocked
out of you, and you “don’t eat nothin’, don’t
drink nothin’, and don’t find nothin’ to do,”
you’re not in love —something’s up with your
liver. A safe, gentle regulator is all you
need. Take
GREATOIDS
You can take these “small but great liver
pills” without the slightest inconvenience.
Try them to-day and you’ll feel as fit as a
fiddle to-morrow. Sold everywhere in two
sizes. 1/- & 1/6.
AT ALL GROCERS AND CHEMISTS.
A Well-matured Tobacco at JLast!
“NOSEGAY”
MANUFACTURED BY T. C. WILLIAMS, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.
Most Pips-smoking Troubles come from Using Tobacco that is Too New.
NOSEGAY does not bite the tongue!
NOSEGAY does not affect the nerves!
NOSEGAY burns down to the last particle in the pipe!
10/8 per lb. 5/A' per i lb. 2/8 per ilb.
Postage—N.S.W.: 6d. for the first lb. and 3d. every additional lb.
Other States: Bd. for the first lb. and 6d. every additional lb.
SAMPLE TINS 1/3, Post Paid.
A. A. MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney,
Cigar and Tobacco Importer. BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
(X
is truly the
“Home Light,”
for it lias no equal as a brilliant, steady “home”
illuminant, and it is Wholly produced in our
“home” country—Australia. In actual test
“Tasma” has proved equal in both quality of
light and percentage of gas production to the
best carbide hitherto imported from European
and Eastern sources. It is free from phosphorus,
hence is particularly economical, and is
altogether the ideal carbide for home lighting
systems and vehicle lighting of every kind.
Support Australian Industry—
Specify “Tasma,”$ secure the best
Manufactured in Australia by
The Hydro-Electric Power and Metallurgical
Co., Ltd.
Works—Electrona, near Hobart, Tasmania.
If your storekeeper cannot i supply, write for
full particulars to
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:—
Victoria. —Noyes Bros. (Melb.) Pty., Ltd., 499-501
Bonrke-street, Melbourne.
New South Wales.—Noyes Bros. (Sydney), Ltd.,
Clarence Street, Sydney.
Queensland. —Samuel Allen & Sons, Ltd., Brisbane and
Townsville.
South Australia. —Arthur H. Hasell, Port Adelaide
West Australia.—Arthur H. Hasell. Perth.
Tasmania.—Gillies Bros.. 74 Collins Street, Hobart.
An Austral ian Industry
A


ROYAL DOULTON
PLAQUES
A SM ALL consignment of Royal Doulton
hand painted plaques, recently received
by Farmer’s, affords to lovers of rare and beau-
tiful art treasures a unique opportunity of
adding to their collections. The arrival of
these plaques is an event of special signi-
ficance, bringing as it does, the art of the old
world within easy reach of the Australian
connoisseur. The subjects are nature studies
and English rural scenes —the works of
Misses H. B. and F. E. Barlow.
1. Size 6 ins. x 6 ins 50/-
2. Size 10 ins. x 7a ins 77/6
3. S:ze 10 ins. x 7 ins. ... 105/-, 130/-
4. Size 10 ins. x 7 ins 130/-
5. Size 12 ins. x 8 ins 150/-
6. Size 16 ins. x 10 ins. (illustrated) 170/-
FARMER'S
BOX 497, G.P 0., SYDNEY.
A Note of Ulira Simplicity
is struck in the smart Gowns and
Tailor Suits from Shave, and in
every tiny detail originality is
emphasised. The name “Shave” is
an assurance of vogue. We fashion
your better Gowns or Tailor Suits
without the tedium of fittings.
SHAVE,
Ladies’ Tailors and Dressmakers,
Centre-ray, Melbourne.
mi
In every pair of
Vanity Fair Silk
Gloves there is that
distinctive air of ex-
clusiveness and smart-
ness that appeals to lov-
ers of things beautiful.
The charm of personal-
ity and irreproachable
stvle in Vanity Fair
Silk Gloves enable the
most exacting w man
to be well gloved
at extremely
modest expenditure.
Insi t on Vanity
Fair Silk Gloves
The gloves with a
guarantee.
v F. 17
SfITTJK- (mUIMIO
w.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
The Newmarket set the Flemihgton ball
rolling on Saturday. The lucky owner of
Red Dome, the winner, bears the nom-de-gee
of T. Roach, and had never owned a race-
horse before he bought this one for a few
hundred guineas.
The crowd was big and busy. Vice-royalty
had to miss the show again; it. was doing
some more country touring. But that didn’t
affect the frocking, which had a good parade
—one of the finest for years. Mrs. Sep
Miller put vivid blue and rose-color on her
buff-colored georgette gown. Mrs. (Dr.)
Miller, just back from England, wore a lacy
black hat to top off her white lingerie frock.
Mrs. Rupert Boyd affected a verandah-blind
covering of wide red stripes on tussore silk.
Mrs. Clive Leonard had a narrow sheathed
suit of blue, silk jersey, and a bathing-gown
hood weighted 'with tassels. The kind of
tassel grandmother had on her plush curtain-
mantel now costs guineas apiece and is ultra-
fasMonable. Mrs. Lauchlan Mackinnon wore
white muslin with a sash and a big shady
white hat. Mrs. Norman Falkiner got into
lovely toggery of dark blue and jade green
and carried the longest feather of the biggest
ostrich known. Mrs. (Senator) Pearce had
a neat, narrow navy suit and a tiny turban
of swathed silk. Mrs. (General) Hughes
was an all-black. Fan Dango Mackay wore
her favorite pink in feathers and a frilly
blue georgette frock Mrs. Creswick looked
smart and cool in white linen and a big black
satin hat. Mrs. Rolls, from Westralia,
turned out in white linen. Mrs. Woodforde
was in white cloth with gold tissue in her
hat. There wasn’t a woman in sight in a
dowdy hat, and the milliners should have
danced a joy jazz on the lawn. One milliner,
by the way, is scratched. They say they
found out that she made a practice of dining
with her last boy in her latest models. Dear,
dear! It wouldn’t.have mattered so much if
she’d gone to church in them.
The day Ross Smith did not arrive was
unique at Flemington. The railways would
not bother themselves about sending trains
to the course, so folk took to the highway.
Flemington-road looked like a river clogged
with flood wreckage. Motors and carts and
char-a-bancs and cabs bumped and jostled.
The language of the drivers swirled about
the pandemonium in a vivid-blue flame.
The Small Boy supplied the entertain-
ment. The management of the crowd at
Flemington was good, but Digger, junior,
broke into the Flat, a serene expanse
guarded by mounted police and dedicated
to the repose of the big machine-birds. At
a critical moment 50 little imps hopped
over. They were turning handsprings and
were delirious with excitement by the time
they were spotted. Police galloped down
on them, and they scattered like fleas.
The real racing man was the most pathetic
sight during the long, fruitless wait —
stewards of the course, their glasses over
their shoulders. Flemington crammed and
crowded and no races! They looked help-
less and flopped about like fish out of water.
Three ’planes started a flight at the same
moment. It looked like a race. There
were gleams of returning life in their faces,
but the ’planes went off into acrobatic stunts
—leapt the rails, so to speak—and apathy
surrounded the stewards again in a dun-
colored gloom.
Lieut.-Governor Irvine and his wife came
out; they bad not got the tip in time to
postpone the outing. The G.-G. was com-
fortably at home, with an aide stalking the
telephone and a chauffeur ready to crank
up at any moment. The Lieut.-Gov. was not
even pampered. He wandered in on the
crowd without a stave of music, and an
excited girl carrying a cushion bumped him
in his rigid back as she sprinted for a ’
vacant spot on the rail of the stand.
The Pearce family was vastly in evidence
—mamma in dark drapings and one daughter
in an. English costume with vivid tomato
trimmings. All the military heavyweights
turned out on this very inauspicious occa-
sion and an acre or so of navy gold braid.
The Federal Parliament got Munro-
Ferguson to open itself on a very hot day
last week. The usual uninteresting crowd
of women jambed the corridors and gal-
leries. Someone that looked like the Plughes
baby appeared with blue ribbons decking its
bonnet. Amongst the adults Ryan’s wife
caught the eye with a splash of the color
that they grow in the north of Ireland.
Ross and his brother were accorded an
almost rapturous reception by Reps, and
Senators at the luncheon given in their
honor at Federal Parliament House. Billy
Hughes made an excellent speech, but though
its matter was good its delivery was a whole
continent behind Ross Smith’s. Our legis-
lators fairly beamed with appreciation of
the delightfully fluent, excellently articulated
and withal simple speech of the aviator.
Ross Smith was a happy man when he
saw that he could land at Point Cook with-
out a swarm of excited people to bother his
descent. Half the cars of Melbourne had
rushed out after breakfast, but were told
to keep their distance. Colonel Cass and
representatives of tired vice-royalty gave
Ross and his brother the glad hand. Then,
“It’s me for some breakfast and some sleep!’
said the Great Adventurer. How novelists
would groan at the lack of heroics!
Over the teacups, in trains, and in trams
there has been fierce debate whether Keith
Smith evinced the true knightly spirit in
making public the text of a gushy letter
of an Australian girl (of uncertain age)
making love to him because she was
enamored of his great adventure in the
air from London to Darwin. Some con-
tended that the fire or the sewer should
have received the letter (in shreds), and
that silence regarding it would have been
kind ; others held that the ridicule of pub-
licity was the only way to check or stop
the “silly leap-year business,” as they call
it. The argument, of course, is inconclusive.
Certainly the records of breach-of-promise
suits do not suggest that publicity does
much to mitigate the scribbling itch.
A recent C.8.E., who was knighted by a
newspaper before his time, has now had the
h gher title confirmed after an appeal to
the authorities in London. It seems that
after he was C.B.E.’d a rival following the
same profession was duly gazetted K.8.E.,
and the offended Companion alleged that if
the disparity in the recognition were made
absolute his prestige would be wrecked.
Picturing the tragedy of his eclipse, the
powers in London handed him the coveted
gaud.
While in Victoria, from May 19 till May
31 inclusive, the Prineelet is to be kept
moving unless he severely sub-edits the
tentative programme drawn up for him. On
the day of arrival he is to make quite a long
trip before getting a rest at the official
shack on St. Kilda-road. The idea is to
spread out the crowd as much as possible.
Some folk are already sniffing contemptu-
ously at the loss of a day over such a
dreary show as a lev£e and investiture in
the Government House ballroom. Foot-
scray, for instance, as a typical industrial
suburb, thinks the time might be better
spent having a look at it. Four days (May
25 to 29) are reserved for country visits,
and if the Victorian Government does not
allocate those days wisely there will be
trouble. Bendigo and Shepparton seem to
be certain of a look-in, and Ballarat, Sale,
Castlemaine and Hamilton can be safely
tipped for the itinerary. The Federal and
State Governments are each to give a
reception, and the Royal Agricultural
Society has undertaken to provide a
parade of stock. Of course Tate has got
his day for a State School demonstration,
but the teachers, who are surly over the
sweating practised on them on the patri-
otic-loyalty racket for five years, are not
at all enthusiastic. Some of them declare
that they are “tired of working for titles
for Tate.” He is already an 1.5.0. and
C.M.G.
This photo by Humphrey shows the un-
faltering gaze of Sister A. M. Pritchard,
whose great work at Lemnos and Salonika
lately earned her
the Royal Red Cross.
She was at Lemnos
when Gallipoli poured
in its thousands of
shattered men, went
through all the
horror to the finish,
and when the Penin-
sula was evacuated
hurried away to try
a few rounds with
malaria at Salonika.
tackled that and
other diseases for
over two years, and
eventually retired
with a w T in on points.
Sister Pritchard
learnt her business
at the Melbourne
Hospital, and was matron at Albury when
the call came.
It is not too much to say that all Mel-
bourne shares in General Monash’s great
grief. Though his wife had been ill ever
since she left London, her death was not
expected. A severe operation in London
had weakened her, and the trip to Australia
had overtaxed her strength. She had to go
straight to her home at Toorak, and was
forced to give up the welcomes showered
upon her husband. Daughter Bertha took
her place at all the ceremonies. Her own
people were not aware of the extreme
seriousness of her illness, and the end came
as a shock even to them. The lady was
much liked and had proved herself an
enthusiastic worker for the Digger and his
folks at home. She had a deep interest in
the Purple Cross, too.
B. K. Long, the Dominions editor of the
Times, was the guest of the A.J.A. at
dinner on Friday, and gave every indication
of feeling that he was in friendly company.
He is to go to Sydney and then to M.L. to
do the Princeling’s tour.
Arthur Mahaffy, Administrator of Domi-
nica, who died suddenly of pneumonia last
month, was as well known in Australia as
in the West Indies. He was a Dublin man
who married Enid
Boyd, one of our
big clan off Boyds
and ilßecketts.
Mahaffy was only
47 when he died,
and he has left three
small children. The
widow has fled from
Government House
and gone to Dublin
to his people. She
is a sister of Mrs.
Gurner, wife of our
Crown Prosecutor;
squatter Reggie
Boyd and mining-
man Rupert are
brothers. Arthur
Mahaffy was British
Commissioner of the
Western Pacific islands for years before he
was handed his job in the West Indies. He
was an energetic, forceful man with an air
and a Dublin way wid him. His father, Pro-
fessor Mahaffy, died only eight months ago.
Nell Stewart stepped unexpectedly into a
box at “Kissing Time” the other evening,
and the noise that greeted her suggested that
the house was rehearsing a welcome home to
Ross Smith. To a request for the recipe
for her startling youth Nell smilingly whis-
pered “Christian Science.” Yet this Chat-
terer knows some people whom it has made
old before their time.
Mrs. R. G. Bowen, wife of Commander
Bowen, has just been handed a Medaille
de la Reconnaissance Frangaise for her four
years’ hard work for the French Red Cross.
The presentation happened in Hobart,
where the Commander is one of the pillars
of the R.A.N. Previous to going to Tassy
he had a couple of years in Melbourne,
spending some months on ex-Admirai
Creswell’s staff.
S. W. B. McGregor, J. Bull’s senior
Trade Commissioner in these parts, is off
to London on business. He is going via the
Golden Gate and the Statue of Liberty and
expects to be absent about seven months.
While he is away there will be another
grass-widow in- Melbourne.
Arthur de Jardin, well known in Mel-
bourne of yore, has been found guilty of
good work on behalf of the Belgian Relief
Fund in Canada, and has been sentenced
to a Knighthood of the Order of Leopold.
Mrs. de Jardin, his accomplice, has been
let off with a Medaille de la Reine
Elizabeth.
Surgeon Harvey Sutton, a former Rhodes
scholar, who has been taken by the N.S.W.
Education Dept, from the Vic. Dept, to be
chief raedicalrofficer for schools, returned
from the war, after four years’ service in
the A.M.C., only a few months ago. It
seemed certain then that he would become
Vic. Government medical-officer, but Clar-
ence Godfrey, who was senior, pushed his
claims and got the job.
The Streetons intend to stay a year or
eighteen months. They have bagged a
house at the corner of Domain-road (in
South Yarra. It has a tower from which
Streeton says you can see over the bay
and the ranges and half of Victoria. He’s
going to-take an easel up there. The pic-
tures he has brought will be shown in a
few weeks —as soon as he has finished a
heated argument with the Customs.
Though he did not make his fortune out
of South African diamond-mines until he
was over 50, yet James McConnell Kerr, of
Auburn, lived long to enjoy it and to see his
descendants having a leisurely life because
of his good luck. He passed out quietly on
Saturday afternoon with a tally of 88 years.
One son is a lawyer, a second a doctor, and
a third a vet. Of his three daughters Mrs.
Welshman, Red Cross worker and philan-
thropist, whose only son went to the war and
came back safely, is best known. His eldest
daughter, Mrs. Byrne, has been ill for some
time. There may be a couple of hundred
thousands to cut up among the relatives.
Sister Adelaide confesses:—
The coal shortage libbed Henley-on-Torrens of a
good deal of its pageantry, and a dearth of power
for evening trains or illuminations compelled the
committee to cut the show to the afternoon. The
Commonwealth Club alone summoned up enough
energy to run a houseboat. Mayoress Haekett judged
the decorated boats —a very short procession—and
gave first prize to the Barcarolles—one of the
feminine rowing clubs —for a cool, effective scheme
of white and green.
The Law Smith-Hawkes wedding is to be in early
March. He is the youngest son of the late Richard
Smith (with the accent on the rich) ; she a daughter
of the squatting Ilawkeses, of Kanoona station.
We have just emerged from a record heat-wave.
For 18 days the thermometer passed 85, and often
went far past, which is the worst it has done to
us for 63 years. The park lands are a dusty waste;
even Mount Lofty shows a succession of parched
gardens.
Rowena Phillis, an Adelaide girl, has won Melba’s
singing scholarship at the Melbourne Conservatorium.
Mrs. Delmar Hall had the voice in her care for two
years at the local Conservatorium.
Hospitality has tired Birdwood so much that the
South Aus. programme has been definitely closed.
War organisations have been informed that he can't
visit them individually, and there will be prac-
tically nothing in the way of private entertaining.
He will dine with the Diggers at the Cheer-up Hut.
A.D.C. Colin Duncan and his bride have arrived
here on a week or so's visit to his people.
Nora Kyffin Thomas, who was badly hurt by the
falling of some overhead tramway gear months ago,
has been granted a year’s leave of absence by the
Conservatorium. Sylvia Whitington is to take her
place.
The Babies’ Hospital had its seventh annual meet-
ing on Friday, and the secretary reported an excel-
lent year’s work. There were 9-1 deaths among the
379 cases, which looks dreadful, but then it must
be remembered that nearly all of the poor mites
are in extremis before their mothers bring them in.
In view of the great work the hospital does, it is
appalling that the year’s subscriptions should total
only £122.
Skip this if you don’t want to be shocked. Some-
body (possibly the new headmaster, who brings a
reputation for broad-mindedness) is allowing the
small boys at St. Peter’s College to play cricket
on Sundays 1 Of course there’s a row about it,
and correspondents clamor for “Christian people to
rise in a body and put this evil from our midst.”
David Eunson, whom we have just buried at 72,
was a musical Scotchman, always ready to sing
ballads at a concert or psalms in the kirk. He
was a foundation member of the various Scotch
Clubs in Adelaide; and his pet recollection was
of R. L. Stevenson as a delicate youth not yet
famous.
The Military have taken over the fine residence of
G. A. Jury at Glenelg, and are transforming it into
a hospital and rest-home for incapacitated soldiers
and sailors. Miss Connelly is to be matron and
Linda Stow the sister-in-charge. The latter is a
daughter of the late Jefferson Stow, a former editor
of the Advertiser and later S.M. For some time
she nursed wounded Diggers at Woodhall Spa, Lin-
colnshire, the home of our new Governor Weigall.
There was grief among a big circle of
friends when the news spread that Mary
Murray, sister of the late Jack, Premier of
Vic. in 1909-12, was stricken with
paralysis at Warrnambool. She was the
real member for the district while her
brother was in Parliament. She kept the
constituency sweet, and her influence won
against all comers on polling-day. She was
everybody’s auntie, so to speak—a big-
hearted philanthropist, a friend in diffi-
culties. Her brother Jack wrote to her
every day when he was not in Warrnambool,
and the political references in those letters
would, if made available, tell much of the
inner history of politics for 15 years.
The Salon is getting rid of its seaside
tan and coming back to party form. There
is to be an At Home on March 8 to wel-
come Mrs. Bage back from Europe.
Mrs. Watson got her motor telescoped on
Ross Smith Day and acquired a few dozen
bruises as well. She had been in touch with
the air-men all the way from Danvin. They
were friends of son Basil, who was
killed in Victoria while flying.
The Alfred Leveys’ unmarried daughter
Athol has sent an overseas coo-ee to the
widowed sister, Mrs. Guy Miller, saying she
has booked for a matrimonial venture with a
Scotsman, Robert Renton, of Perthshire.
Her parents lately decided, after seven years
in the Fog, to browse in the Australian sun-
shine for a bit. Alfred has felt chilly ever
since the a Hun submarine potted the
steamer which was bearing him back to Eng-
land after a hurried trip to this State.
Comedian Theodore Leonard fell suddenly
out of “Kissing Time” last week and was
convoyed home by Dr. Croom, wdio diagnosed
the case as “a touch of the sun.” He stayed
out of the cast for three nights and a
matinee.
The wool-growing Thomas Millears are
down from the Western District. Mrs.
Millear is hostessing a big tea party at
the Quamby Club on Friday next to fare-
well her younger sister. Miss Clare Fellows,
who is tripping off to England.
Amongst the keenest attendants at the
Darwin Commission is the widow Perreau.
the lady who reared nearly a dozen little
white Australians in the Territory. She is
dai'k and petite, and has emerged from her
arduous tasks up there apparently none the
worse for the wear.


WBm ■■
■
m
i
H
1
aBIK
m
A
lilliltl
i^n
K
■:
■ n
: HR
»
111
. :
U 1
' *;•
;flaa3 .v *
-•• • •
jHHHSSi
. ■
.
■
B
M
■\t(
Ml I
MM
JR J
zm
ms
■H
■M
».mmM
; -
m
■I
. . .:
W
\iV'
§ B&igapsi
i .$&,
5 V ;
< *e * S f w«a 1 '; *v
- '*v"i / •• \ ■ % •* \'i & 4gfc %:
JT'-' ......
HEIh
■W ;
H •
:
■ v *•, A- J|
laClßSr* v. Jhs
ilsgii iiiiinp# if fc
kßhmhwhmi
»liil
~,.,
lliil
m
:
1
i
;
v,
rj i
MM
I V’ J
: I
11
mm
11
ill
i
l
Hnwntti
■
ina
■ ■■
mm
Hi
la/?/ t5/> JPasy Smiih. ULC. A.T.C
Copyright Watson's No. 10 Whisky.
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
THE above portrait of Capt. Sir Ross Smith, M.G., A.F.C., is one of a new series of drawings speci-
ally executed for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being entirely
free from advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set, consisting of Admiral Sir D. Beatty, Earl Haig,
General Sir W. Birdwood, General Sir W. Robertson,
General Foch, Vice-Admiral Sir F. C. D. Sttirdee, General
Sir John Monash and Capt. Sir Ross Smith, will be sent to any address on
receipt of six penny (Commonwealth) stamps. As the production is limited, we advise you to
write and secure a set immediately to
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD.. 26 King Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
%S&ari6
Scotch Whitt"
'tva/emjroO*
,s " ■"”'*
mmmm
msk
5%v
,sS/S//A
V''
€
'Z'/A
// 'W,
% /
J
A
vm
%*///


CIMRLES
HeidsieckS
Vintage 1906
CBM®
HE PLUS ULTRA
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Garage Equipment
for re-boring
Ford Cylinders.
As a business man, your decision to invest in
some particular Reboring Machine naturally
will be based on the experience of other users.
The many Garage Proprietors who have in-
stalled the “HEISER” have nothing but
praise for its Utility.
Reboring and fitting over-size Pistons is the
most important repair that can be given to
a car, and in so far as Pistons and Cylinders
are concerned, the “HEISER” will make a
Ford as tight, true and new as the day it
left the factory.
“HEISER” IMPROVED CYLINDER
REBORING MACHINE FOR FORD
CYLINDERS.
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS:—
Bennett 8 Barkell Limited
“The Traders’ Service House.”
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
HOSIERY!
GLOVES!
UNDERWEAR!
“OUR” SPECIAL MILANESE SILK
GLOVES, double-tipped guaranteed, all colors,
4/9 nair.
Other qualities 5/6, 7/6 pair
“DOVE” HEAVY-WEIGHT PITRE SILK
HOSE, every pair guaranteed ladder-proof. Sold
in shops 25/- pair. From us, in black only—
-16/6 Pair
“OMI” ARTIFICIAL SILK ANKLE
HOSE. Australian made, noted for splendid dye
and good wear. In black; white and brown—
-3/6 pair
“DOVE” AMERICAN COTTON STNG-
LETS. very long and full size. Short sleeves.
4/11 value for 2/11 each
K4 V SER Mtt aNESE HOSE, in Mastic,
Navv and White 16/11 pair
MAIL ORDERS SPECIALLY CATERED FOR.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
The Dove Hosiery Stores,
313 Collins St., Opp. Equitable Building, Melbourne
HOME-MADE COUGH DROPS.
A RECIPE MOTHERS SHOULD KEEP
Cough drops suitable for both children
and adults can easily and quickly be pre-
pared at home by pouring a few drops of
titrate of tar on a lump of sugar. Let
this dissolve slowly in the mouth, and as
it dissolves so the healing and soothing
virtues of the pine tar will penetrate to
every part of the throat, chest and lungs.
Bitrate of tar is useful in many different
ailments, and it is no wonder chemists are
experiencing difficulty in meeting the de-
mand. Half a teaspoonful poured into a
bowl of boiling water produces a healing
vapor which, when inhaled, gives relief
in eases of cold in the head, bronchitis,
asthma, etc., while it is well known that
2oz. of titrate of tar, Boz. of sugar, and
half-pint of hot water produce nearly
a pint of cough syrup superior to the
ready-made mixtures composed of harmful
drugs, and at less cost. Make a syrup by
tbe suswr in the hot water, and
then add the titrate of tar. Stir well,
aud when cold it is ready for use. The
pleasant flavor and aroma of this home-
made cough syrup make it very acceptable
to children, to whom it may be safely
given.— Advt.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
FOR
SMART
MILLINERY
Good-looking Mrs. de Beaupuis hostessed
an afternoon party Avith Rene Maxwell and
Nathalie Rosemvax as guests of honor.
Nathalie Avore a heavily-embroidered Indian
muslin dress, and above the flash of her
black eyes there was a close-fitting toque
made of a bit of Oriental brilliance that
might have been snatched from a Rajah’s
turban. Rene Avore a dull-green frock,
ambiguous as to Avaist-line, and with her
plump throat and rosy cheeks looked a
sonsy lassie under her white lid. The smoke-
room at Farmer’s Avas comfortably filled, and
patron-of-the-Arts Chalmers threAV a fatherly
eye over the gathering; and mother and dad
tried not to look too proud. Nathalie told
some of their experiences in England, and
mentioned that, from the jump, Rene’s sing-
ing education had not cost her people a penny.
She picked scholarship and prize and bur-
sary off the academic tree as easily as black-
birds pick cherries in a garden.
Rene Maxwell’s concert of Thursdav night
was the finest of the season. She sang then
with a sureness that was lacking, at. her first
performance. The Jewel Song led one. to
suspect that her Faust had brought his Mar-
guerite the diamonds of the combined Royal
families in and out of Europe, so dazzling
an affair Avas it. But the cycle of Bush
Songs at the end of the programme Avas a
bit too much. They are quite charming—in,
say, half-helpings. All together they create
an overplus of atmosphere—something of
the effect of Rene’s oaaui repeated hugging of
the gum-leaves. Once a thing like that is
charming; a second time it smacks of rehear-
sal. The Avords of the Bush Songs, by the
vray, are by Annie Rentoul. Cvril Monk
and Vernon Sellars and Nathalie Rosenwax
were the remainder of the programme.
Mayor Richards is a very sick man these
days, feeling all the depression that follows
an attack of ’flu. Mrs. Richards is with
him constantly, and threatens, if he insists
on attending council meetings before she
thinks he is fit, to accompany him and keep
guard right through the sitting. It Avas the
Mayor’s bad health that kept him and Mrs.
Richards aAvay from the At Home arranged
in their honor last week by the Queen Vic-
toria Club, so Colonel Henley and Brigadier
Bruntnell did all the roaring at the tea
which Mrs. Waugh hostessed.
The social climbers are working a little
campaign Avithin the political campaign.
These energetic dames are offering their
draAving-rooms in order that dear Mr. Mar-
rowhead, the Nationalist candidate, may
address the women electors. On acceptance
of the offer by the guileless Marrowhead
Mrs. Climber sends out invitation cards to
all —but not to sundry. Oh, dear no! The
sundries are discreetly ignored. The result
is that only madames of the Verv Best
vieAvs. are on hand to make Mrs. Climber’s
acquaintance, and, incidentally, give Mar-
roAvhead a hearing. He, poor man, might
have used his precious time and breath more
profitably in struggling to convince less cer-
tain supporters.
Though Holman’s confidential secretary
went .to Cootamundra beforehand to prepare
for his arrival with Ross and Keith Smith,
a squad of children rushed the Vimy and
escaped death by only a hair’s-breadth.
Keith let off a volley of the most strenuous
Anzac yet heard in ’Coota. To escape being
mobbed the aviators slept in a train drawn
up at a siding. The Prince Avill probably
cut out ’Coota.
“Ye paper chase” was indulged in by
sassiety at Sutton Forest last week. Dorothy
Farran set the ball rolling. Mrs. O’Hara
and Mrs. Venour Nathan AA r ere the hares
who left Bong-Bong bridge for Hillview,
and the 30 hounds included Margaret and
Marcia, daughters of Arthur Allen; Con-
stance Johnson, a soon-to-be bride; Mrs.
Dundas Allen, Frank Lamb and Com-
mander Allison. Margaret Allen came home
first, and Lady Davidson decorated her
horse Avith the blue ribbon. The hares got
souvenirs from 11. E. Kater. Proceeds go
to the Red Cross.
The D. R. Halls are on Sydney’s free
food-list these weeks, going the rounds of
farewell lunches and dinners. Pity some
enterprising body like the Bilious Club or
the Empire League doesn’t start a series
of farewell breakfasts, and so further save
an underpaid Ministry and its Avife the
problem of the high cost of living. These
poor people nearly always have to pay for
their own breakfasts.
Not all the doctors A\diom he had led into
the world could save “Andy.” For nearly
12 months he had been waiting for the call
that came on Sunday morning. When malig-
nant growth Avas found to exist there Avas
a faint hope that an operation might suc-
ceed. But exploration showed that it could
not be. So Professor Anderson Stuart pro-
ceeded to live the year that was allotted
him. It Avas characteristic of the man that
he went about his work just as usual; and
there never has been a more stirring scene
at the Uni. than the medical students’ fare-
Avell just before Christmas. Men Avho had
long since passed out into practice joined
the medical undergrads for the occasion.
They wanted to slioav their. admiration of
the pluck of the man more even than their
gratitude for the great services of the
teacher.
Professor “Andy’s” wife is a Primrose, a
niece of Lord Rosebery. They had four
sons, two following in father's medical steps,
two on the land.
The G.-G. and Lady Helen are to be
present at the laying of the foundation-
stone of the Girls’ Friendly Society’s neAV
hostel—Arundel-terrace, Forest Lodge—on
March 13. President Mrs. J. C. Wright
will officially start the job, which will cost
£11,500 to complete, and as this is £6430
more than the present total of the building-
fund, Mrs. Armstrong and Judge Docker
are still saying “Thank you!” for cheques
forAvarded to Mostyn, Elizabeth Bay.
Lieut. Angus (“Mick”) McPhillamy,
Avhose marriage to Isma Amor was arranged
to take place last night (Wednesday) at
St. Andrew’s, is a son of the McPhillamys
of Orange and Bathurst, and OAvner of New-
lands station in the Western District. He
belonged to the Australian Flying Corps,
and is reputed to have given Ross Smith his
first lesson in flying. The bride you’ve heard
of as a mermaid in the champion class.
The State Orchestra came back to its
oAvn on Saturday night with a croAvded-out
Conservatorium to give a rousing welcome.
Even the great Verbrugghen was touched by
the greeting, but not to the extent of allow-
ing an encore. Alfred Hill's “Hinemoa” got
a lift from Mrs. Goossens’ singing of “When
the Tired Winds,” and baritone Goossens
sang the Tangi as it might be sung if every
chief in the pa was laid out at the same
time.
The other week, when there was a racket
in Sydney about the shameful way in Avhich
domestic helps are treated, Mrs. Subbubs
Avas looking for a pair—cook and house-
maid. In fact, she had been straining her
eyes for weeks. “Noav, look here,” said
Mr. Subbubs at a family conference of two.
“You don’t treat your helps like that. What
you Avant to do is to let all these imposed-
upon Avomen know that there’s a place -Avail-
ing for ’em where they will receive decent,
tAventieth-century treatment.” And Mrs.
Subbubs, being desperate, consented. The
advertisement Avas a great success. Offer of
“decent, twentieth-century” brought a score
of answers. Mrs. Subbubs grabbed the first-
comers. They were nice girls from the
country, with excellent references. A friend
met the poor lady shopping a day or tAvo
ago. “Yes,” she sighed, “I simply had to
make time to run into town for an hour
or so. I’ve scarcely got a stocking left. The
last maids I had cleaned me right out —and
then left me Avithout a minute’s notice.”
That Avas the end of the Great Experiment.
This maiden of the bobbed hair and smiling
face is Kama Birmingham, the youngest of
Julian Aslitop’s
pupils to be repre-
sented in the
National Gallery.
Kama, who is the
daughter of Dr. Bir-
mingham, of
Narooma, where the
oysters grovr, has a
pretty talent for pen-
d rawing. “The
Quince Tree,” a
study of this nature,
caught the eye of
the trustees at the
Society o f Artists’
exhibition last year,
and Miss Eighteen
awoke to find her-
self the youngest of
all exhibitors in the
Gallery.
Digger Freddy Whitlow gave one of his
bright entertainments in farewell to Sydney
last week. He is off to that conglomeration
of trouble that is Europe. His will be
one of the appetising snacks on the
Coliseum bill if his character studies keep
up to the standard of the other night. Another
notable feature of the performance was
that all the men appearing on the pro-
gramme might have stood for models of
the Apollo Belvedere. Every one was a
good-looker in his own right. And the girls?
Well, vou should have heard what the house
thought of them!
The Benevolent Society held its annual
meeting in the wide, pleasant grounds sur-
rounding the Royal Hospital for Women on
an afternoon last week when the flowers
bent their autumn bonnets to an unkind
blast. The Davidsons gave vice-regal pres-
ence, and were welcomed by acting-president
Cooper and his lady, Health Minister
Bruntnell and the Board. Lady Davidson
wore a soft black satin frock —a fine back-
ground for the purple asters and pink car-
nations handed her by Matron Clark. There
were nearly two long hours of “I move”
and “I second,” the only excitement pro-
vided by the horse in the caterer’s van gal-
loping full-tear down a bank on to a grassy
stretch, where he came of his own accord
to anchor. After that all things moved
decently and in order to their appointed end
—the most important and popular movement
being the nomination of Mrs. Kate DAvyer
and Mrs. Eadie as life-governors.
Within the hospital walls dainty Vinnie
Deloitte, who is Mrs. Howard Vernon, lay
struggling for life, the little baby haAdng
given up the attempt at the first overpower-
ing effort. For four days the little mother’s
life was in the balance, but now the corner
to recovery is turned.
“Judd’s crowd? That’s their stand under
them trees”; and in one of the most pic-
turesque settings of the. Domain Mrs. Annie
Howard Toohey, Socialist candidate for
Botany, spoke in the early afternoon, balanc-
ing herself carefully on the narrow collap-
sible platform. Through the leafy boughs
the blue sky flashed; and the grass looked
fresh and inviting in spite of the showers of
expectoration 'that brother-socialist deluged
it with. A comfort-
able, motherly-looking
woman is Mrs.
Toohey, shiningly
clean from her trim,
well-shod feet to the
top of her head. In
a white linen Suit
with black froggings,
black-gloved and
black-hatted, she de-
claimed a socialism
of the practical sort
that concerned itself
most with the price
of butter and eggs
and the proper
nourishment of the
kiddie. Women
drifted towards the
group idly, then stood
to attention—they had all felt the pinch with
bread at 6d. a loaf and rice at 9d. a lb. Now
and again the speaker dropped into the clap-
trap of the game, and of course quoted
Marx; but her kindly grey eye is turned
oftener to the breakfast-table of Young Aus-
tralia than to any visionary Utopia. “Been
cornin’ here every fine Sunday for the last
six years,” said the straw-hatted young man
who had drifted over from the revolutionary
socialist party. “I come for the company—
but I reckon all of them only wants to get
into Parliament and live easy. Yes, I been
coming for six years off and on ; but I don’t
take no notice of ’em.” And the young man
wiped his hands of Socialism with a large
cream silk-handkerchief, and added the
spittle of his disregard to the green sward.
Miss Lougliran, socialist candidate for
Sydney, didn’t come along till the cool of the
day. She is tall and thin, and also shiningly
clean, and she opened her remarks with an
offer to sell her diamond ear-rings to any-
body who would pay £5O for them, the said
half-hundred 'to go into the Party funds.
The words come trippingly, and she keeps
her thoughts well ahead of her tongue; and
presently to the large ring of men are added
a swarm of well-turned-out flappers who
listen attentively, and in undertones draw
distinctions between Socialism, 1.W.W.,
A.L.P. and Direct Action, with a wealth of
information that leaves little doubt as to
the way their votes will go when they are on
the roll. “All talk!” fiercely spits an
anmmic-looking, middle-aged woman in spec-
tacles. “What we want is Direct Action !”
The Labor Party, queerly enough, has
not so much as one woman-candidate; and
for that matter neither have the Nationalists.
Besides the two Socialists the only women
nominated are Grace Scobie and Dr. Mary
Booth, Grace of the new Soldiers and
Citizens’ party, Dr. Mary making a wholly
independent appeal to North Sydney.
The Tonic-sol-fa-ists held their annual
meeting in the smoke-room at Farmer’s on
Friday, speaking with strong enthusiasm and
a marked burr on the advantages of that
system over all others for the young idea who
is to be saved, if need be by force, from the
latest system of singing approved for the
Department, by Minister James. It’s to be
sol-fa or cut shillelaghs, the association has
decided. It has decided another thing, too —
that it will start competitions in sight-sing-
ing and ear-tests, and already there’s twen+v
pounds in the fund —ten pounds for a gold
cup and ten pounds towards certificates for
the kiddies and gold medals for the teachers.
Business over, president Chalmers invited
the company into the next room, where
Farmer’s choir entertained them —some of
the girls so tired-looking after the hot day
that one of their own part lullaby-songs
might well have been sung to them. Rene
Maxwell, who was there : n white, handed
out badges to the Firm’s rifle club, but didn’t
sing the girls and boys one little son* in
exchange for the two hours’ entertainment
Mrs. Bennett White piloted the Cheer-oh
Girls to Goulburn the other day. The fund'
of the local hospital have revived as a result'
and the pilot’s name goes on the hospital
honor-roll. Incidentally, the visit seemed t»
lmnress Goulburn with the fact that it'
public-hall accommodation is pretty shocking
A movement is afoot to improve it and make
asoldiers memorial of the job; but, some-
how, the local inhabitant isn’t very enthusi-
astic. Perhaps it’s because he has seen
many another similar bubble burst in his
neighborhood.
On April 5 the gardens of Quambi, the
Kelso King home at Woollahra, are to be
thrown open in the interests of the Crown
street Women s Hospital, and a perfectly
gorgeous garden fete is to attract coin. LadV
Davidson is to bless it.
It was a great sight at the Domain Baths
on Friday when the schoolgirls took to the
water, with class-mates there in legion to
barrack for their own particular school’s
Annette Ivellerman. However, disappoint-
ment didn’t prevent the assembled flapper
giving a deafening cheer to mermaid Meal-
ing, who gained the all-schools’ championship
for Fort-street. The champion is a bright-
faced youngster with a straight nose and
clear, direct eyes, and a stroke that threatens
the supremacy of Mina Wylie. She was a
Coogee water-sprite.
When good-looking Mrs. Audrey Hazlett
married Captain Elliott Murray at St. Mat-
thew’s, Manly, last week, it was the comple-
tion of a pretty romance, and she donned
pale-grey and powder-blue for the occasion.
Mrs. Hazlett is the widow of G. Hazlett.
M.A., in pre-war days one of the King's
School staff. Captain Murray’s late dad
was wool-man W. Murray, of Melbourne,
and in his own right he is manager of the
Red Cross basket industry.
Cabled last week that young Godfrey
Ludlow had made a successful first-appear-
ance in London since the war. Illness due
to internment camps in Ruhleben and Hol-
land caused the violinist’s temporary retire-
ment from the concert platform. An en-
gagement to tour England and Ireland, in
association with Tom Burke, the tenor who
shared honors with Melba this season at
Covent Garden, followed his performance.
Impresario Powell, who only bothers with
stars, offered the contract.
Sydney Hospital is wailing that the
£lOO,OOO asked for as a Peace offering is
not forthcoming, and the shadow of a
£70,209 overdraft hangs heavy over the in-
stitution. However, the Government pro-
vided the hospital meeting last week with
an official cheerer-up in Minister for Health
Bruntnell, who restored the smile to Presi-
dent Stinson’s face by saying that the
Government had decided to guarantee the
overdraft. Though everybody else knew, if
big John Stinson didn’t, that the Govern-
ment couldn’t do anything else. But these
are election times, when Ministers are per-
mitted to make a virtue of necessity.
The Bush Book Club ball has caught the
fancy of even the far-out suburbs, and the
Town Hall threatens to burst with Romolas,
Dolly Vardens and Mr. Pickwicks. But
the Kate Greenaways whom Miss Joske is
gathering will have to be graceful and slim
somebodies or the set will have a Mother
Bunchy likeness. Ten sets have already
been formed. A pretty Rolin girl is running
one, and others are being arranged by the
Harry Whitings of Melbourne, the Laidlev
g : rls, Nina Massie and Barbara Bowker.
Barbara Knox, who is in charge of the book-
set department, asks those with dark inten-
t’ons to communicate with her at Rona,
Bellevue Hill, so that sets may not be
duplicated.
Here is a story to illustrate the way rich
and flash globe-trotters inflate prices. About
four years before the war an Australian
girl who was being educated in France fell
one day in the playground and broke a
front tooth. A clever Paris dentist pushed
the side ivories up one and filled the gap
then charged father £3O for
domg it. Father, paying the bill, murmured
a regret that he had not been born a dentist.
The man with the forceps knocked 2ld. off
the bill and said: “The day after I had
examined your little girl’s mouth an Ameri-
can child was brought here who had met
with exactly the same accident. Her father
is’'—here he mentioned the name of a
financial top-weight—“and he was so wor-
ried over the thought that his child might
go through life with an artificial molar in
front that he kept begging me to avert this
and spare no expense in doing it. I pushed
up the side teeth and made out the bill for
£2OO, expecting to hear him remonstrate,
but poppa simply rushed to pay. Grow-
ing a bit ashamed, I asked if he con-
sidered he had had value for the money.
‘Well,’ he said, ‘I reckon you’ve given me
the greatest letter of credit I’ll ever get in
my life. Wherever we go I can say.
‘Daughter, open your mouth and show the
tooth dad paid £2OO for.’ ”


I = »
1655
ESTB
Hardy Brothers Ltd.,
JEWELLERS.
PLATINUM
WATCH BRACELETS.
Hardy Bros.’ comprehensive selection of Watch
Bracelets includes a variety of new and distinctive
models in Diamonds and Platinum. These are
fitted with highest-grade Swiss movements, and are
mounted on Platinum or Moire Silk Expanding
Bands.
n m
01
Platinum Watch, set with fine-quality Diamonds, highest-
grade Swiss movement, mounted on Black Moire Silk,
with Diamond Snap,
£t 65 0 O.
3#
©
i s>
<-■;
Platinum Watch, a smart and attractive model, set with fine-
quality Diamonds, highest-grade Swiss movement, mounted on
Black Moire Silk, with Platinum Snap,
£BO 0 0.
An Illustrated Catalogue
Posted Free on Application.
Five Per Cent. Discount
Allowed on all Cash Purchases.
13 Hunter Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE. BRISBANE. LONDON.
Take Postcard Photos
with a Folding Ensign.
BRITISH-MADE—FOR ROLL FILMS-DAYLIGHT-LOADING.
■
The most useful post-card size photo is deserv-
edly popular amongst amateur photographers, as
it is just a nice size to clearly show the detail
of the scene or portrait portrayed on it, and can
be used to convey a message of greeting to a
friend.
No. 3JA Folding Ensign is a handsome and
compact camera for post-cards. It is made of
seasoned wood, covered Black Leatherette,
Leather Bellows, Nickel Fittings, Reversible
View-Finder, Focussing Scale and Infinity
Catch. It is fitted with Achromatic Meniscus
Lens, and Shutter giving Time, Bulb and
Instantaneous Exposures l-25th, l-50th, l-100th
second. Price 707-
No. 3jARR is similar to above, but is fitted
with Rapid Symmetrical Lens. Price 77/0.
WE WILL SHOW YOU HOW TO USE IT
and give you demonstrations in developing and
printing.
A full range of other well-Known Cameras, including
KODAKS—BROWNIES—ANSCOS
Call and inspect them. If you live out of town ask us to send you our
illustrated catalogue.
Jewellers’, Dentists’, Engravers’
and other Metal Workers’
Sweeps, Residues and Waste Products
Scientifically and Economically Treated
at Harringtons’ Laboratories.
We are specialists in all classes of Metallurgical Work, including Assaying,
Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis ; we buy materials containing Gold,
Silver and Platinum, and can supply those materials and their alloys in
plate or wire. •
A ’phone message or note to any of our branches will receive prompt attention.
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 George Street, Sydney.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane.
144 Queen Street, Auckland.
2CCS Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: Booth and Trafalgar Streets, Annandale.
M
Write to-day for Special
Recipes and full Directions
for making delicious Ices and
Summer Drinks. Sent free
on application to
NESTLE’S
347 Kent Street
SYDNEY
NlB9
A
Summer Day Treat !
HOME MADE ICES
Delicious
Economical
Easy to Make
i
WITH
NESTLE’S
Condensed Milk
Made in Australia .


Soft White Hands
Follow use of Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment. At night bathe them %e
Soap and hot water. Dry and roo in jShs
Ointment. Wear old gloves during nighi
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
•R. Towns & Co., Sidney, N. S. W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
lvc
The above
is the title'
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
IV ESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls t o
avoided by
beginner. It
plains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
b e
the
ex-
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal Vchool of Drawing,
185 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
H' if—
m
: BRITISH
ADE
Perfection
RUSK RUBBER
the GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY.
and rheumatic pills
The Lamous Medicine that relieves
RHEUMATISM, GJUT, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA,
The Great Discovery of ihs Age
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. English price, 1/3 and 3/..
Prout & Co., 229, Strand, London.
SfSgsy
sj br s Flavour^
Missing Friends.
NOTICE.
WILL MRS. MINNIE McDOUGALL.
Wife of Frederick McDougall of
Collinsville, Tasmania, and a daughter of
Dickinson Grice, late of Richmond, Tas-
mania, deceased, or any person knowing of
Mrs. McDougall’s whei’eabouts, please com-
municate at once with
W. F. STEPHENS SMITH and IFE,
Solicitors, 146 Collins Street, Hobart-.
Instal this Money Maker
SAVE THE DROPS and you save
gallons per year.
SECURE the steady stream of small
orders that is passing you by.
CHECK THE CONTENTS of your
barrel.
Suppliers of
Petrol.
Kerosene.
Oil.
Turps.
Shellac.
A'arnish.
Molasses.
Syrup, etc.
PRICE-
£6,IS/-
CALL AND INSPECT AT
Westcott, Hazell 8 Co.
LIMITED,
311 Pitt Street, Sydney
Suppliers of Motor Accessories.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KING
SCRUBBS—AMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATION OF INSECT BITES.
Of all Grocers, Chemists, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS-
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
mis
mm
■ i « '» 5
m
m
mmw
'
s?
w
Control Your Memory by the
ROTH METHOD
During last year in England 150,000 people took
the course.
Don’t grope around in the dark any longer. Control your memory
and see instantly everything you want to remember.
Do you want to be further advanced? Why not then train YOUR
MEMORY in the right way. It is so, easy, give it a trial.
You can learn the secret in one evening. Y'our ability to remember
will attract your employer's attention and promotion will follow
promotion thereby
Doubling and Trebling Your Salary.
Remit 42/- to the Standard Art Book Co., Ltd., 29 Woolbrokers
Chambers, Young Street, Sydney, and the SEVEN BOOKS, com-
prising' ROTH’S MEMORY COURSE will be forwarded you post free.
Q
Showing
Bottle
de-mounte.t
KEEPS CONTENTS
Ice C Id 72 hrs. Hot 24 tars.
Made in Various
sizes and styles
from -pint up.
Icy-Hot Bottles are
ideal for all climates
and are made for
hard usage.
Extra Protection
is ensured by a coiled
spring and felt pad
which absorbs jolts
and jarsandmakes the
bottle practically un-
breakable.
Absolutely
Si nit ry
because the
spring-tight
neck-flitting
preventsleak
age of liquid into the outer case.
The Name ICY-HOT clearly stamped
on the bottom of each bottle is a guar-
antee of the Standard •’''Perfection
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES.
Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
The ICY-KOT BOTTLE CO.,
Cincinnati, Ohio, U.8.A.:
159 West Second Street.
lev-Hot Jar
for solid food
or ice-cream .
RROCKMSHORROCKSE
TML WORLD'S
BEST VALUE
Wanted to Buy.
TAIAMONDS, PEARLS and other FINE GEMS, we
wish to Buv in any quantities.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, Ltd., 23 Hunter St., Sydney.
Mmrs. METHUEN'S
NEW BOOKS.
Send your name and address to Messrs.
Methuen and yon will receive regularly
their Illustrated Announcement List.
JUST PUBLISHED.
THE PHANTOM JOURNAL AND
OTHER ESSAYS AND DIVER-
SIONS. By E. V. Lucas, author of
“Twixt Eagle and Dove.” F’cap Svo.
6s. net.
A selection of Mr. Lucas’s contributions to
the weekly press in 1918-1919. The essay
which gives the book its title is new.
NEW GENERAL LITERATURE.
ESSAYS ON ART. By A. Clutton
Brock. ss. net.
NOT THAT IT MATTERS. By A.
A. Milne. 6s. net. A new volume
of essays. .
A BOOK OF R.L.S. By George E.
Brown. 7s. 6d. net.
THE FAIRY GREEN. By Rose
Fyleman. 3s. 6d. net. A charming
book of poems.
A Novel of Enthralling Interest.
THE GOLDEN SCORPION. By
Sex Rohmer, author of “Dr. Fu-
Manchu." “A detective story full of
mystery and incident, which, when
once begun, has to be read through to
the end.” — Sheffield Daily Tele-
GBAPH.
Methuen $ Co. Ltd-.
36 Essex Street, London, W.C. 2,
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character') trill bt
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Jim G.: All but “Scalps” will d 0....
Herm: “Silence” too trivial... .Aloha: “How It
Was Done” fluttered on the edge of the basket. There
is humor in it. Perhaps it would go with a better
ending....B. Kay: Not well enough done to hold
the interest... .J.C.S.: Afraid nobody would get
through the heavy barrage you set up at the start.
....L.C.R.: Flat.... Alan B.: You don’t make “The
Search” seem true.. . .Student: Yes, it sounds too
much like a personal grievance... .A.lt.M.: Open
your lines. The man who crowds his stuff up like
that discounts his chances of acceptance by any-
thing from 10 to 50 p.c 7855: Well, the U. S.
Court that dismissed the claims against the owners
was satisfied that she didn’t carry explosives of
any kind. .. .Artois: But that would mean collect-
ing a tax on wages no matter how 5ma11.... Cook-
town: “Le-le” needs more elbow-grease....
Aspiration:—•
Brilliant and bogus vividness of the flower panorama
Fades in fair late light and velvet is the blossom-
ing aroma.
Consult an aurist.... Pledge: The verse is quite
hopeless; and where did you get the prose sketch ?
.... Soujane: No trace of poetry in it; and, as
topical verse, months too late Janol: If they
were stranded how did they have £5 amongst them?
...,S. Iddyumpty: You ought to have a good
yam about the signalling Syd. C.: If it appeared
in another paper it’s no use sending it to The
Bulletin. .. .A. 8.5.: Send the complaint to Gals-
worthy. He, like every other man on the job,
doesn’t strike the top note all the time jEneas H.:
“The Packhorse” has a very uneven gait... .Tramp
N. Q.; Will be glad to read them.... A. Morris:
Already been published G.McK.: No; not in
any foreseeable time Annie A. M. (London):
Thanks; glad to hear Prune: No use Celt:
Yes, but to point to the “sensible European Sunday”
wouldn’t help Bishop Radford Bill Lewis: There
was a par in it, but you suffocated it. You
wouldn’t tell a mate the yarn that way, would you?
. ...Boz: As you want a straight-out opinion, here
it is. Give it up.... Maori: Too crude... .Private
Nosi: “Part of it was taken from still-life in
England.” Why? Owen M.: “Night” isn’t bright
enough Ron Mac: -’"’-v sad; but buck up and
forget her. Every abatsn.m* has a silver thingum-
bob, and twice a week there are faces.... Jake:
Rhyming faulty • T o not much w lse to recominend it,
.... Poi phyro: Mi the Garuei)''” is now in the
cemetery....F.l }i ;
Was ever land tike ours?
We’re cursed with nothing old.
Wrong. Our trouble is to find something new....
Llendoc: Two alleged poems read. Now forward £2
for time wasted... .L.P.J.: “An Old Song’ has no
lilt Everard: Hackneyed.. B O. Lynn Faint
recollection of having met that oafore. Edward
K.: (1) Any kind, as long as they are orig.nal, (2)
your fist is good enough Ruby C.: Not enough
in it A.C.M.: Yes, it w as a remarkable perform-
ance, and we’ve passed your (and others’) apprecia-
tion of it to the author Keore: Nothing verv
remarkable in that test. The Bulletin has seen
a much more severe 0ne.... J. 0.8.: Meaning of
Gundaroo? Perhaps somebody can help John Dug-
gan : It’s a good old tough Irish thing that should
be set to the pipes.... Marshall E.: Have another
' G ‘ : It>B in Kipii, ‘S’ s “ F eet of the Young
Men Ask any bookseller.... Pat: You have two
£00(1 lines:—-
He hitches his pants and says, says he,
To Hell with the city, the bush for me.
.... Harold C. M.: If she has sent copies of the
yarn to those papers the door is shut here
Michael S. M.: N0....R.W. ; “The Wife Deserter”
has no resting-place.... Mary L. H.: Sample:—
Beware a girl of winsome charm,
Or surely you \yill come to harm ;
* ut away the Love, the balm,
And settle down to earthly calm.
The Adventuress is brave and bold,
bhe has conquered youths and men untold;
And all their brains she has controlled
And done many things I’ll not unfold.
....The Moralist: If you put it into four or six
hnes it will have a chance.... Kaikai: As a matter
ot fact, he didn’t write it Icon: Monotony is
the basw of anarchy -D.L.S.: Hopeless
P.H.8.: We printed an Australian trader’s com-
plaint. We shall print the Consul’s reply. Where
is the unfairness?....Beddoe: Poor thing, it seems
to have corns.... M.L.S.: Yes. The book is out of
print; but Angus and Robertson may have a second-
hand copy Tracker: Poison the cat with it
R.R.11.: One verse, anyhow, will have them eas-
ing :
Premier’s jaunt and Minister’s Night Out—
r ill em up, what need to care about
lr another Loan is coming*?
Home they uproariously roil—
This State is near the top of the pole.
....Ernest O.: See if you can’t put that grub yarn
m a third of the space... .M.Q.: The claws aren’t
sharp enough.... Carlyle C.: Take “Mum” and give
her some more attention. She’ll probably be asked
to come in and take a place then.... L. Hand: “The
Roses Bloom” has nothing to recommend it....
Gamalgi: It’s a very worn thread, and you don’t
improve it.... Albert S. E. P.: Useless to pass an
opinion yet. Give him time to develop.... Wheel
C.: Weak as watered lemonade. .. .E. C. Cole: If
that s the best you can do better give it up.
Kid-o (can’t you find a better ptomaine?): “Up in
the Air” didn’t brighten the week.... A.C.L.: Try
to improve that star idea. It falls over its feet in
the second verse Blundell: Write it in half the
space.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS
S.R.F.H.: Looks like a cobweb in the d.t.’s
Ted H.: Send ’em along Wog.: No use illus-
trating old theatrical gags W.S.: A poor, belated
pun....H.5.: You can’t draw... .W.T.: Ditto....
J.R.: Only one faint smile in the bunch... .C.N.8.:
Not new.... Bell: The postman has it....AL
Wright: All wrong Tas. C. I.: It crashed..."
H.T.: A few scratches don’t make a drawing any
more than they do a hen S.H.: A poor thing
H.E.McK.: One will do as a suggestion... .Leo. A.:
It misses; but try another subject E.M.: Your
card-school won’t play here.


Shipping-
ORIENT LINE:
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegrauhy. Cubines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-. Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd..
Tel;—City 4 246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
424 1 1 Qrlniir
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls.
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, MARCH 17,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAITBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, GOFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Picturesque Route to Brisbane.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 13s. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 7s. 6d. For particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. 11.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; lion. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G. ; lion. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to .Tune 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital -- -- ~£BOO.OOO 0 u
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 770,127 10 0
Reserve Funa .. .. .. .. 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1803 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
lion. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; .lames Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - * - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerioa. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up ....£1,198,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors : HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman ;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq,, LL.D.; FRANK N. Y’AR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager-. C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief inspector for
Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finnev.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 146 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £629,988
Preference Shares 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital . . . . .. 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
grants drafts
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and, other places.
receives deposits
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping:,
, etc.
Canadian-Australasian
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST AND BEBT-BQUIPPIU) STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONUNLNT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, Early.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World—the Canadian B"* 1 *- 1 *.*” I vUited
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip,
t
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
MM
1
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability -
Directors:
- *4,639,160
3,200,000
4,639,160
£12,478,320
The lion. Sir diaries K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.O.
Thomas Buckland. Ksq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Kobert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The lion. James T. Walker.
F. B. S. Falkiner. Esq
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office—George Street. Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, 15. C.
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World,
aoidUio a van ■
qjjwouiuioj)
tim
JM°'Bustra!ta
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking 1 Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (Newßritain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2782 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
War Service Homes, as Agent for the Commissioner
(A special Department in each Capital City)
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER, .
Deputy Governor 1920 | . Governor
SAVE ALL YOU CAN
by depositing in the
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales
(Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY).
Deposits accepted from 1/- upwards. Interest paid at
3 -4 per cent, per annum on every complete £up to £5OO.
Personal, Joint and Trust Accounts opened.
140 Branches and 501 Agencies throughout the State.
Shinning.
•..■m.'A 1
Osaka ShosenKaisha
(O.S.K. Mercantile Steamship Go. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service Manila,
Hong- Kong, Japan and the East. Tran-
shipment cargo accepted for all Eastern
ports. Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhipping at Japan.
MITSUKI MARXT, middle March.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
of Australia,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
40 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: City 4166, Six Lines.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide.
Huddart Parker Llm
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
SAILINGS RESUMED.
See Daily Papers.
HUDDART PARKER, LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne;
George Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
bv this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zaniboantra, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Jjipan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PIIILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome 'springs, giving a feel -
ing of ease and comfort from the first day s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. .To prove what w
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAD.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
v, - anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Intel-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Gable Address
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United fcteam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Limited.
Eitseroy -Estates Limited,
iilackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AUK NTS FOR:
Biitish India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
■Svdnev).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messpgeries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shive Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), .at
Brisbane. , .
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. at Queens-
land Ports). ' .. , ,
-Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports). „ , .
Buddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports)
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane,
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
-BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide. Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street. Brisbane.


BO
Si
R
e
A/M
i
%
il
©
a
Q.
I n play they are resilient —faultless in running—-true to angle and of perfect balance.
Far and away superior to any other ball. Unaffected by climatic conditions.
BILLIARD BALLS
Sim: l|in. l|in, 2in. 2,iin.
10/6 15/6 21/- 30/-set
(Postage on One Set— N.S.W., 9d.; Other Statca, i/2).
SNOOKER BALES
Sizes; 1| in. 1 4 in. 2in 2,iin.
£44 - £4/15 - £5/5,- £lo,lo'-set
(We Pay Carriage on Snooker Bails).
Sole Australasian Distributers
ae
Headquarters—Haymarket, Sydney.
New City Sports Depot: 99 King Street.
And at Newcastle and Brisbane.
An
AMBEROLA
foryour home
5
Nothing you could buy at the price would be more appreciated
than an Edison Amberola —the world’s greatest entertainer.
With its assistance you can listen at any time to your choice
from a fine series of records that embrace music and songs of
every class. All are perfectly rendered and true to tone,
being reproduced by the famous Diamond '.Stylus Reproducer,
which avoids necessity for troublesome neeVlle-changing.
The model illustrated is just the thing for the verandah or
the week-end camp. The nearest Edison dealer will demon-
strate for you, or catalogue will be mailed direct, post free.
i i- '
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
CLOCKS,
Folding Clocks,
are, perhaps, the most acceptable present
that can be given.
In perfect taste in any room, as we
stock them in every color and shade.
So unobtrusive and yet so looked at
because of their reliability and accuracy.
Then so admirable for travel purposes,
as they fold flat, and so take little room.
For our back-country homes pre-
eminently suitable, as they, being }-plate
lever movements, stand the rough hand-
ling in transit without injury.
AVe carry an enormous stock in every
size—some 36 hours, some 8-dav move- _ , ..
ments, some with luminous dials, and all Absolutelv reliable Clock, with luminous dial, in
of them are guaranteed for 15 years. folding leather case, (J 5- to £B/8/-
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS LTD., and 25 HUNTER STREET.
Plain Figures—Cash Only. The Old?! t Jewellery House in Sydney.
MBS
■ : ■
m
m
ma
a ■
Situation Vacant.
Applications are invited for tin*
position of GENERAL MANAGER .of
a leading GENERAL ENGINEERING
FIRM in New South Wales, stating age,
qualification and salary required.
Applications by letter received Until
Wednesday, April 14, ,1920, addressed to
‘•PERSONALITY,’’
Box 2-1-1 G.P.0.. Sydney.
Situation Wanted.
STEADY, sober man, 39, married, desires
change. Well up in oils, fats, ere..
ncluding analysis. Splitting, distillation,
pressing, etc., also erection of any plant used!
At present assistant manager eight years of
large distillery in England. Best references.
. _ Box 2~21 0.P.0., Sydney.
Wanted to Buy.
' fV jD SITAER. —We wish; to Buy any quantity of
D Srlver for nr lti" "• (v^prre.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, Ltd., 2.3 Hunter St., Sydney.
Beneficial to the Health!
COATES’
Original Plymouth
DRY GIN.
Coates’ Dry Gin is a
pure spirit rich in
juniper and extremely
beneficial in all cases
where gin is usually
prescribed.
This famous Gin
comes from the Black-
friars Distillery, Ply-
mouth, founded in
1793. Supplies are
again plentiful.
Insist on having
COATES’. Buy it in
the original bottle.
All good hotels, clubs,
wine and spirit stores.
COOPER, NATHAN & CO.,
Sole Agents, SYDNEY.
s
m
y ix
K. J
9
IM
V
p •


An Unsolicited Letter in Praise of
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
,1/ rs.
FRANCES
FAIRDAIRN.
(from
a photo.)
Sheldon Drug Co. Ltd.
Dear Sirs, —
I have known what it is
to suffer with Backache
and Kidney Trouble, but
thanks to your Gin Pills
this is all over now.
They are certainly a
most extraor d i n a r y
Remedy, and it is surpris-
ing to me that anyone
would now suffer pati-
ently with Kidney Trouble
when such immediate re-
lief can be obtained from
Gin Pills.
I have recommended
them to lots of my friends,
and never yet have I re-
commended them to any-
one who has not been
benefited by them.
Yours truly,
(Sgd.)
FRANCES FAIR DAIRY,
24 Harris Street,
Rozelle.
Gin Pills Will Help You.
If you feel that your Kidneys are the cause of your illness, your run-down feeling, begin
taking Dr Sheldon's Gin Pills for Backache and Kidney Trouble, because as soon as join
“T fica “s'm2 sxstiirznssx 8S& *>» ,r« ,-rjrc
they remove the cause of such troubles; they get to the r°°t of the matter clean out tl _
Kidneys, and make them Alter out all the poisonous waste matters and ui.c acids, t-- a t o g
in the ioints and muscles, causing Rheumatism. They soothe and heal the bladder, a q
relieve iou They are a unique remedy, entirely different from anything you have, ever us«
There is nothing else to compare with them. No matter how old you are 01 ho\ g
havl suffered tL very principle of Dr. Sheldon's Gin Pills.is such that it is practically im-
possible to take them into the human system without obtaining results. •
P If you suffer with pains in your Back or Sides, or .have any .signs of Kidney Iropbk o>
Rheumatism, such as puffy swellings under the eyes 01 *** L fle< £ r or s* G?n Pills fa"
ous Tired and Run-down, or bothered with Urinary Disorders, Dr. Sheldons Gm fin o.
Backache and Kidney Trouble are the Remedy which will quickly relieve you oi your miseij.
Price 1/6 and 2/6.
-nr Sheldons
E
and Kidney Troubles.
Onoto
THE SAFETY PEN NEVER LEAKS.
Self-Filling, 17/- Valveless, 12/6.
ONOTO INK—Best for asl Pens—Obtainable Everywhere
/J
£
o
te'ii
SO
-r
H
UJ
B
Si
v*
Vv
!\ .
**
11l weeds grow apace, and their presence
robs the soil of the nourishment required
by crops, reduces yields, and increases
the cost of production.
Blackberries and St. John’s Wort are
already in undisputed possession of valu-
able areas of land, and are gaining ground
rapidly.
The farmer who wages war on weeds and
scrubs with
“VALLO” Brand
Weed, Scrub, and Tree Killer
—the economical and infallible means of
destroying any and every kind of noxious
growth—is best off in the long run.
With him clean and profitable crops and
pastures are the rule and not the exception.
Put “Vallo” on your clearing job NOW,
and just watch it work. You’ll not regret
i*
Manufactured by
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
Melbourne - Sydney - Brisbane
TREES and SCRUB
ST. JOHN’S WORT
THISTLES DOCKS
BOXTHORN
COUCH FERNS
FURZE SORREL
WEEDS of every kind
jf
LS
mfe
VALUT
BRAND
The Colors of the World.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN shall I see the colors of the
world,
And feast on pure delight with my
two eyes?
When shall I see the purple flag unfurled
Of iris beds in meadows of Kashmir,
And couched on emerald grass at spring ot
year . , . „
Pluck the red crocus under turquoise slues.
Or drifting cushioned by the Shalimar
Behold the garden of some ancient king / _
Hear haunting pipes blown softly from afar/
Touch with my own two hands strange
damascenes
And woven tapestries and broid'ered screens.
And through dim grass-grown mosques walk
wondering?
When shall I see the colors of the world ?
O Samarkand, they say your glories fade
And crumble into dust, to be wind-whirled
About the desert! That great •azure fane
Gleaming above the sleeping Tamerlane,
That mighty tomb where his loved queen
was laid !
And those mosaics, gold and blue and green,
Sparkling like gems upon the high mosque
wall,
May not endure for all their royal sheen,
Since the deft hands that wrought them long
are cold.
O Samarkand, shall I be dull and old?
Alas! Shall I behold your light at all?
When shall I see the rose of Shiraz bloom,
And Saadi’s yellow moon illume the sky?
When shall I walk within the vaulted gloom
That is all color of the thronged bazaars,
Mid glowing brass and scented wine-filled
jars,
And pomegranates and melons tumbled high?
When shall I rest beneath the gracious calm
Of Buddha’s smile? And after blinding rain
Behold on Nippon’s hills Spring with her
balm
Of sudden cherry-blossom, and her shower
Flushed and ethereal of azalea flowei',
And in her cheeks the red camellia’s stain?
Lo, I am caught—how many another, too!—-
Fast in the sheer stupidity of gold!
And so the almond-trees their blossoms strew
About the hidden gardens of Pekin,
And palaces are thdre to wander in
And I may dream of these, but ne’er behold!
Oh, I would see the colors of the world !
Stamboul with moonlight on her turrets
thrown,
Iran of song with snowy peaks empearled!
For this I know who stretch out eager hands,
Till I have found delight in other lands
I cannot love the land that is my own !
N.S.W.
NINA MURDOCH.
The Jamieson Cup.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O N the evening of December 31, 1823,
Mr. T. McManus, sen., of Terry’s
Flat, called a meeting of his friends,
admirers and hangers-on, and entertained
them regally with rum in the dining-room of
the Black Horse Inn at Richmond.
You know’ the place—the oldest licensed
house in Australia—in the main street of the
ancient Hawkesbury village, about half-way
along as you walk towards the cemetery.
Old Terence McManus had fought under
“General” Joseph Holt at Vinegar Hill in ’9B,
and had only escaped hanging in Dublin by
reason of a monstrous and incredible alibi
that had nevertheless 'found credence with a
jury—an Irish jury—and he had been sent
to New South Wales instead. He had been
“out” at Castle Hill .in 1804, and had also,
on that unfortunate occasion, and in miracu-
lous fashion, narrowly evaded the rope and
the tree-limb which had terminated the
careers of so many of his comrades after
their inglorious defeat at the hands of Major
Johnston and his detachment of the Rum
Corps. He still limped as a consequence of
a bayonet-stab behind the knee. A little,
shrewd, wizened old man, with gleaming,
black, rebellious eyes, and a face resembling
a monkey’s—one of those solemn monkeys
with a fringe of beard below the chin.
To the Crowleys, the Higginses, the
Lackeys, the Hogans, the Hooligans and the
others who tilled the smoke-fogged, sweltering
room on that summer night, old Terence ad-
dressed himself w T ith vim, vigor and direct-
ness. He thumped his fist upon the table,
and made the glasses rattle. He flourished
his long churchwarden pipe at them. His
bright eyes blazed with excitement. His
sixty-five inches looked like seventy-two. He
had a presence, had old Terence, and, w an
he meant to, he made himself felt. Young
Terence —six-feet-six, four-feet round the
chest and sixteen stone —used to say that he
felt like a hairless joey kangaroo when the
old man was truly in earnest. He domi-
nated the meeting at the Black Horse. Iu
fact, he was the meeting.
“B’ys,” he shouted, “ ’tis a gre’t day to-
morrow will be —a gre’t day, entirely. Mr.
Lane does be tellin’ me th’ Cripple—some of
yez know him best as Hector —can walk
away wdd th’ Cup, an’ ’tis mesilf belaves
him. There niver was such a gran’ horse
bred on th’ Oxberry, an’ ye know me frind
Misther Lane here, of Agnes Banks, for a
good mahn an’ thrue. Wan an’ all of us
do be lookin’ for his vict’hry to-morrow.
’Tis a sure thing, so it is. Ye may slape
aisy on that. But Sir John Jamieson—an’
I’ve nought t’say ag’in Sir John as a mahn
ayther—he do be set on winnin’ back his
own cup. an’ he do be cocksure that Benne-
long’s th’ horse for to do it for him. Regents-
ville’s chockful of th’ quality, an’ ’twill be
sore shame to th’ knight not to s_ho\v thim
he’s got th’ best horse in th’ distrie’, as
well as th’ best house, an’ th’ best farrum,
an’ th’ best mill, an’ th’ best av everyt’ing.”
“He’ll be disappointed then!” interjected
one of the gathering.
“Sui’e, thin, he’ll be afther havin’
to bear his disapp’ntmint. But ’tis
of thim dam’ rapscallions of his I’m
wantin’ to warrun ye—tliim Gov’mint min
at Regentsville. ’T ; s ni°h two hundred
of thim will be at Pinrith to-morrow, all
dead set on Bennelong winning, an’ when
lie don’t win ’twill be th’ divil an’ all to pay.
Now, we must get th cup back to Ague
Banks be hook or be crook—-an we 11have
to be fightin’ for to do it. ? T “f L
for a kvart for to carry it back, an 1 want
all of ye that’s prisint here to-night to forrum
y’silves into a bodygyard for to see It safe
home. Ye can cut shillelaghs for y silves
at Pinrith before th’ spoort begins. Be
sartin sure thim lags of Sir John s w ill b
ready to make thrOuble th moment th big
race is over. Ye know I'm not th mahn fen
to encourage fightin’ an scrappin, an mis-
bt“Sure y’r not, Terry dear,” softly inter-
posed old Matthew Hogan; “ye mver was,
W Mif McManus glared at him, baring his
teeth, like a monkey who has had his tail
PU “H d ould y’r prate, Matt, ye ould divil,” he
flung at him contemptuously; lot A 1
betters have a worrud. I’ll appmt me son
Terry to be th’ captin av th gyard. v\ e
is he?” He looked round tor his bi B oil
SP ‘‘He’s rode into Penrith before: tea ” a
young man near the door answered him gr n
ning “ ’Tis a daughter-in-law ye 11 be havin
before long, Terry, I misdoubt. M M
.i a « tale, snorted McManus,
sen “B’ys will be b’ys. Terry’s but amusm
himsilf. We’ll appiut him to-morrow, on
th’ ground. Fill up all glasses ag m, Wu
Wavgoose. We’ll drink success to th U H®.
an’ P Hell wid th’ quality, an’ th’ quality s
min.” . * *
Sunrise saw the river roads full of peopie
who made, from up sS few
variety of pilgrimages to Penrith. S°m
fli-nve in eigs, or farm carts, oi duiiock
dravs alon»- the bush tracks that converged
uion Emu Plains Many rode-the women
man-fashion, often with babies earned
fore them on the saddle horns—and some
were without saddles a»J W greenhule
bridles. A great number walked.
It was a beautiful moraine, g.vrng
of a typical Australian New Yeai s Hay a
flaring hot one. Dew sparkled like jewels on
the leaves of the gum-trees and ironbarka,
and the grass by the roadside was drenching
wet with it. Over to the westward stretched
the long wall of the Blue Mountains purple
and indigo in the morning light, and only a
little deeper in color than the glorious blue
sky that roofed the world. The great clett ot
the Grose Valley made a break in the wall,
where the mountain river came tumbling into
the Hawkesbury, and its dark shadows de-
fined it sharply against the unbroken sunlit
line of ranges that stretched to north and
south. .,
Old Terence, gorgeously arrayed in a niu<-
broadcloth tail-coat, tightly 7 buttoned up
with shining brass buttons, a top hat, a
black silk stock, white buckskin pantaloons,
and knee boots with yellow leather tops,
drove Mr. Lane, the owner of the Cripple, in
his new gig. There was nothing quite like
that gig on the Hawkesbury—unless it was
Sir John Jamieson’s own. This was its
first excursion of state, and Terry McManus
was a proud man as he clattered along the
dusty highw T ay, acknowledging with a
flourish of his whip the cheers and greet-
ings of the people he overtook and passed
by. Mr. Lane, a burly and silent man,
grinned his appreciation of the notice they
Rttrsctcd
“Well, now, Mac,” he said, “ ’tis a sen-
sation ye’re making with this fine turn-out.
“An for why not, John? For why not?
Me money’s as honest come by as most.
I’ve not made it be crawlin’ on me belly 7 to
Gov’mmt, or be pois’nin’ me. neighbors w T hl
bad rum. or be chat’n’ me min out av their
rations —diave I? ’Tis more than some av
th’ swells Sir John does be feastin’ an’
dancin’ at Regentsville can say, so it is.
This kyart av mine, an’ th’ bay mare- —
I’ve airnt ’em both, so I have.”
John Lane laughed. “You have, indeed,
Mac, and more beside. But tell me—-
where’s young Terry to-day ?”
A scowl rendered .the old man’s face even
more hideous and monkey-like than Nature
made it. “Bad luck t’ th’ young divil,” he
said. “He’s aftlier some trollop in Pinrith.
Goes aw T ay there yester even, an’ not back
all night. Ye heard what young Jimmy
Lackey says last night at th’ Black Horse?
’Tis true, so it is. An us wantin’ th’
strength av him this day, an’ not knowin’
whether he’s goin’ t’ come near th’ races at
all. ’T>'s shame to him. By God, Misther
Lane, I’ll be batin’ him for this, th’
young omadhaun that he is.”
Lane shook with repressed laughter. It
was well known that the diminutive father
did indeed inflict chastisement upon the
gigantic son —furious castigations to which
the giant submitted like a faithful dog, even
when they meant a bloody head or whip-
weals across buttocks and shoulders. He
had nearly killed a soldier once for daring
to question his father’s right to make such
fierce assault upon him. Young Terence’s
sense of filial respect was strong in him—
stronger even than his well-developed ama-
tiveness.
“ ’Tis Hell’s own bangin’ I’ll be givin’
him for this,” grumbled the old man.
They came into Penrith about 9 o’clock,
and Mr. McManus stabled the bay mare at
the Depot Inn, which was kept by one Bay-
liss, an ex-sergeant of the 46th Regiment.
Mr. Lane went to see after his racehorse
sent in from Agnes Banks the day before--
and the old man sought for tidings of his
son, w r5 th an expression of countenance that
boded little good for that errant youth. He
took his gig-whip with him.
The straggling village was full of people
from the surrounding country, and there
w T ere many who had come from Sydney and
Parramatta, and even from Liverpool and
the Cow Pastures. It was not often in those
years that such a festival of sport was pro-
vided in New South Wales as was to come
off to-dn.v.
Sir John Jamieson’s estate of Regentsville
was one of the show places of the colony.
It lay on the right bank of the Nepean, two
or three miles above the crossing of the river
by the Western-road. Its owner had built
a magnificent mansion on it, where he enter-
tained with lavish and profuse bosnitality
all the leaders in the social life of Sydney,
He farmed his lands as lavishly as he dis-
(Continued on next puye.)


PROFESSIONAL EVIDENCE
WJ
I*.
/,'¥//
: n-u
Xurse Francis
(.from a photo).
Well-known Nurse’s Tribute to
Zam-Buk’s Wonderful Healing.
]\JURSE FRANCIS, residing at 109 Harris Street, Pyrmont, Sydney, is a thoroughly qualified ladies’nurse,
who has had a wide and varied experience with Zam-Buk. For the benefit of fellow sufferers she tells of her
experiences, and writes:
“The Zam = Buk Co.,
“Dear Sirs,—My experience with Zam-Buk has been extensive and
varied. I was getting a bottle down off a shelf, when the bottle smashed in my
hand as I grasped it tightly in trying to save myself from falling. A piece of
the glass severed one of my fingers, cutting right through the bone. The finger
was hanging by a piece of flesh. I had it dressed with Zam=Buk by a friend,
and bound up tightly. I kept Zam=Buk applied, and the flesh and bone knitted
together. The irregular knitting of the bone can still be felt, but the finger
itself regained its usefulness completely, thanks to Zam-Buk.
“Some time ago my little girl Sheila met with an accident, in which
she poisoned her finger. In washing out the house she was using a disinfectant,
and it got into the injury and blood-poison developed. She had a fearful hand
in consequence. 1 took her to a doctor, and after much discussion he thought
the only way to prevent it developing seriously was to amputate the finger.
: — This 1 would not consent to have done, so 1 thought 1 would treat her myself,
an did so, using Zam-Buk. It was pleasing to find that it proved most effective, as it took all the inflammation and matter away and
re uced the swelling, and after treating her for three weeks she was perfectly cured and the hand saved.
“Another experience I had with Zam-Buk was when my son Stephen fell over a cliff at Bondi, a fall of 30 feet, and injured himself.
As a consequence he broke out in ulcers on the back and elsewhere, and he suffered ereatlv
from them. Zam-Buk, however, again did wonderful service and healed them thoroughly
S' amfthe'sturap^wer'e’heaied'lTy'zam-Buk! 6 ’' * * two «* the “ «» «•
- * (Signed)
“The experiences here stated can be personally verified by me if consulted at my address.”
BE ON
YOUR
GUAR!
AGAINST
SUBSTITUTION;
SEE YOU
GET ZAM-BUK,
THE PROVED
RELIABLE
HEALER.
Zam-Buk is the perfect healer
for Cuts, Burns, Bruises,
Scalds, Boils, Eczema, Pimples,
Sores, Scalp Troubles. Poisoned
Wounds, Festering Sores. Bad
Legs. Ulcers. Abscesses. Ring-
worm, Barber’s Rash and
Injured and Diseased conditions
of the skin. Zam-Buk is
also invaluable as an em-
brocation for Rheuma-
tism, Stiffness and Sprains.
Zam-Buk is obtainable
from all Chemists and
Stores, at 1/6 per pot, and
3/6 large size, or direct
from C. E, Fulford (Aus.),
89 Pitt Street. Sydney.
'V
r
0
cheat healer.
pensed his hospitality. There were vine-
yards and wheatfields, mills and storehouses,
and almost a town made up of the dwelling-
places of his convict servants. He aimed at
being the squire of the countryside, in the
old English fashion. Less than 30 years
after this date his fortune had departed,
and Regentsville was deserted and ruinous,
hut on the day of the race-meeting the place
was at the zenith of its glory, and Sir John
was indeed the Great Man of the Havvkes-
bury and Nepean.
About 11 o’clock a large crowd had
gathered by the roadside in the m.ddle of
the town, awaiting the arrival of Sir John
and liis guests. There were old men of the
First Fleet—Australia was only 30 years
old in 24—and many who had come, be-
cause they had to, in succeeding voyages.
There were farmers from up and down the
river—some of them free-settlers, and others
emancipists, who were free so long as they
should remain outside Britain. There were
soldiers and prisoners—of the latter a large
contingent from Ilegentsville, who kept
together, and who were, on the whole an
ugiy and truculent crew. And there was
the splendid first generation of the native-
born, the first of that fine breed of Hawkes-
na.tlV(;s , vvh( > were the real beginning
of the Australian race—the Currency Lads
and Lasses who became the parents of Aus-
tralia. Strong and comely specimens of
humanity these—the young men tall and
sinewy; the girls deep-bosomed and broad-
hipped. Their race had renewed itself in
i\ew South Wales, and beef, pumpkin and
maize had nourished it well.
To a chorus of triumphant yells from the
ilf SV '' e men ‘ the State P arfc y entered the
town. .1 tie procession was preceded bv
the racehorses owned by Sir John, Major
Lngjand and Air. Justice Field—Bennelong,
Whipcord and Satellite, Jed by their
Ail the military members of the party wore
lu 1 uniform, and wore on horseback, their
ladies following in carriages. Amongst them
were Sir Maurice O’Connell, the Lieutenant-
Governor ; Colonel Snodgrass and Major
Gnglaiid. Their arrival was the signal for
die commencement of the’ day’s racing.
the course was simply two miles of the
main road, finishing through the town, and
in a paddock just outside was pitched a
jnaiquee tor the use of the Regentsville
guests. Two booths and the Depot Inn sup-
plied strong ale and bad rum to the crowd,
and by the time the first two events in the
programme had been run, and the big race
was about to take place, the crowd was in
a fit and fighting condition for the proper ap-
preciation of the event.
The cup was valued at £5O, with £5O added,
and a sweepstake of £5 for the second horse
The entries were Mr. Lane’s Cripple (late
1 lector). Mr. Hanraban’s Friar, Sir John
Jamieson’s Bennelong, Major England’s
Whipcord, Mr. Justice Field’s Satellite and
Mr. W illiam Lawson’s Steel Trap. The race
was to be run in two heats.
And all this time Mr. Terence McManus,
sen., had sought unavailingly for Mr. Ter-
ence McManus, jun.. with anger in his soul
and his gig-whip in his gnarled right hand.
“B’ys,” he announced to his party just
before the big lac-e, “I can’t tind th’ young
blaggard, an’ I’ve sought high an’ low. ’Tis
mesiif will be captin oi' th’ gyard. Thim blag-
gards of Sir John’s do be carryin’ peach-
sticks up their sleeves, iv’ry maim Jack. I
see ye’ve all cut shillelaghs for y’silves. Ye’ll
defind th’ right, an’ ’twill be a fine fight while
it lasts. We’ll shtart for home so soon as
th’ cup’s in the kyart.”
In the opening- heat The Cripple came in
first, with The Friar second, aud Bennelong
a close third. And in the second, with only
three horses running, The Cripple won again,
with Beuneiong a bad last. Xtieu, as jar.
McManus, sen., had predicted, there was
“hell to pay.” Out came the peach-sticks
which the Regentsville servants had carried
up their sleeves —knobby little weapons of
great effectiveness —and ready to meet them
with whalebone-like shoots cut from the
stumps of box-trees were the men from down
the river. It promised to be a willing battle,
but had hardly got itself started when, to
the disgust of all concerned, Sir John Jamie-
son ran in amongst his men and called upon
them to desist. They did so with an ill-
grace, amid the jeers of their opponents. The
prizes were paid over, the King’s, Sir John's,
Mr. Lane's, the Ladies and sundry other
healths drunk in the marquee—whilst the
booths and the inn did literally a roaring
trade, and the day’s sport was over. The
Regentsville party left the ground, and those
of the spectators who lived down the river
prepared to move homewards with their
trophy.
And nowhere near the racecourse had been
seen Terence, the son of Terence and of
Anak.
When Mr. Lane emerged from the marquee
bearing the cup lie was immediately sur-
rounded by his bodyguard, which escorted
him to the cart that stood waiting for the
treasure. _ Standing in it, his top-hat on the
back of his head, and a big stick, in place of
the gig-whip, in his hand, was the truculent
little figure of old Terence, and he hurled
taunts at the Jamieson faction, and was sup-
ported upon either side by a big barrel of
beer anu a len-gailon Keg of rum. xat* care
was surrounded by Richmond and Windsor
men, and the Regentsville mob pressed close
up to it, hooting and yelling. The heat
of the afternoon, the gallons of fiery rum
that it had been soaking up all day, and the
mutual dislike and distrust shared by free
men and convicts, had made the crowd into
a highly inflammable and explosive combina-
tion, only needing a spark to set it ablaze
in savage warfare. Black Bill Davies, a
labor overseer at Regentsville, supplied the
spark.
“Look at tld little Irish !” he
yelled in his bull’s voice. “His father was
a Protestant monkey, an’ his mother was a
she-bandicoot! Who stole th’ priest’s calf?”
He pushed close up to the wheel, shaking
a huge fist at old Terence, his ugly counten-
ance turned up, to yell his abuse.
“Ye stinkin’ little bog-trotter.” he
was howling when the captain of the guard
took a flying leap and landed with Both feet
in Black Bill’s face. And then the battle
raged.
Sticks and fists were plied in earnest.
Bloody heads and broken noses were every-
where in a few minutes. In less than five a
score of meu were stretched unconscious
on the ground. All about the field
men fought in groups, and there were
single combats in plenty. But the
bodyguard kept moving slowly forward
and the cart moved with them. John
Bane himself had rescued old Terence and
placed him, stunned and bleeding, between
the beer barrel and the rum keg.
The native-born were vastly outnumbered,
but in physiciue and fighting power were
more than a match for the disorderly and
drunken riff-raff of convicts, and they gradu-
ally forced a way homeward. Again and
again the liegentsville men attempted to
rush the cart, and it was not until after an
hour and a half, and when a couple of miles
had been made along the road, that they
finally drew off and left the victorious
natives to themselves.
The sun was just setting as old Terence —
with a broken rib and a bloody face, over
which much rum had been spilled in cease-
less efforts at first aid —came to his senses.
As he sat up and looked about him, the first
object upon which his eyes focussed them-
selves was the immense figure of his son, who
had ridden up unobserved by the crowd, as
it celebrated the flush of victory by eagerlv
punishing the beer and rum. They were
shouting mutual congratulations and singing
songs of triumph and maudlin sentiment. A
pretty girl with blue eyes rode behind young
Terence, clasping him about the waist.
“Howly Mary, Ink down on me this day
pr*’ <sb ph+i'flM V„ di " 1! S
git,” wailed the old man—“where ye bin,
u- —u ye, wnexe ye u.n?”
The crowd hooted young Terence, but he
sat upon his horse and grinned, saying no-
thing. The girl was all smiles and dimples,
. as if she enjoyed a joke that the others could
not see. His father screamed further peti-
tion to Heaven and the saints for the de-
struction of his undutiful heir.
“Blasht tli’ soul av ye!” lie yelled, his
blood-soaked face the very limit of hideous
malevolence. “Do ye be lavin’ us t’ win
tlr cup, an’ to fight for it, ye
poltroon, while ye goes off canoodlin' wid
this Jezebel? Bad luck to ye! Th’ black
curse of Crummle on ye! Ye'ie no son of
'mine from this day—there’ll be nayther bite,
nor sup. nor bed for ye at Terry’s flat from
this out. An’ I’ll lave it to th’ Orphan
School. If ’twas not that me innards is
bruk t’ bits. I’d bate ye t’ paces, ye son
of a !” '
“Don't miscall me mother, dad,” said young
Terence, in the slow drawl that was first
used in Australia by his generation, and with
the quiet imperturbability of the true Austra-
lian when he has some amazing announce-
ment to make. “Listen to me. ’Twas not
th’ Cripple that won th’ cup. Nor Mister
Lane. Nor none of ye. ’Twas me that done
L ‘“You?”
A howl of derision shattered the quiet
evening air. Young Terence lifted up his
hand, and they were silent, curiously eager
to understand his madness.
“Yes, me. Bennelong could have run th’
head off The Cripple. Nothing in these
parts can sight him.- ’Twas me that made
love to Mary Magee this month and more
past, tli’ daughter of Dan Magee, Sir John’s
trainer. She had th’ lookin’ after th' kprse
in his stable, an’ ’twas she an' me puts a
feed of green barley into him this mornin'
that makes him like a balloon. Here’s
Mary’ll tell ye th’ same. We’ve bin gettin’
married in Parramatta th’ rest of the day.
’Twas us that got ye th’ cup.”
The old man’s jaw dropped, and there was
a deep silence in the crowd. For a full
minute he said nothing. Then a dog barked,
and with a gulping sob old Terence took
young Terence back to grace again.
“Terry, I ask y’r pardon. Now thanks
be t’ God I’ve bred an honest malm!”
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
Gum in Blossom.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
~W7t7~HO robbed the bees that I might
Vy keep
This honey-dripping bough of gum.
Whose creamy blossom-brushes sweep
Tire spring of the millennium
Out of the February skies
To where upon my table lies
A heap of dusty manuscript,
Where any fairy might have tript
Across a bill-file’s sprung surprise?
A brush, indeed, this gum bough's bloom,
To sweep away the sallow walls;
To bring into a city room
A great green wave that lifts and falls;
To make ashine the cloudy sand
In some sea-lapped and drowsy land,
And leave a puzzled, sprawling crab
• Marooned upon a rock, or stab
With pointed shell the rampart strand!
Who robbed the bees? I think I hear
Their noisy protest at my door.
Brown amazons, ’twere well to fear!
But they are dreams and nothing more;
The vicious beating of their wings
Is but the breath of phantom things
That ripples in the ghostly trees.
“Who robbed the bees? Who robbed the
bees ?”
I laugh as through my brain it sings!
The smell of honey grows and grows.
The pointed leaves have care of it.
Who scaled the hillside where it grows
To bring to me my share of it?
Some friend with gypsy in the blood.
This helmeted, unopened bud
Will tell me yet how, by the sea.
Those idle hands remembered me
Through all the sleepy sunshine’s flood!
Oh. greedy bees, you cannot sting.
For I am armored well for this.
The swooping of a heated wing!
Strike if you will, you yet must miss
The heart that found, the hands that sought
A vision in a gum-bough caught,
Till all my office as I write
Is sweet with sea and fair with light.
And store of honey’s for a thought!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum Wear-
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Queensland Agents-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
rI.Z. Office—93-107 FeaUierston Street, Wellington
Queen Street, Melbourne. '
HOR LICKS
MALTED MILK
fc a pure rich milk combined
With the extract of malteci grains
—very digestible and nutritious.
Prepared in a moment. Delicious
to the taste.
Sample will be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps
to Hutchinson & Co., Ltd.,
26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
*«<
ia^r*^
s^l
, ■
for Horßck’s
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
SUCCESS In
To succeed in life good spirits and hopeful
thoughts arc required. The man who is de-
spondent or irritable always fails.
Low spirits and irritability of
temper are often caused by
a dull, torpid liver.
Wake up your liver
with Carter’s Little
Liver Pills and start
the day with a bright
cheerful face. Both
your health and!
business will bene-
fit. No pain, no
CARTERS
! ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
discomfort. Thousands recommend them.
Good for old and • young purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dosa
GENUINE must
bear signature
WRIGLEYS
The Greatest Name
In Goody-Land
r
mr
&
PIGLEYS
ffF,
t-AVotfß
THE
perfect
CUM
AS
I
I
.WRIGLEYC
m
m
I GUM
«
s
SEALED
TIGHT
KEPT
RIGHT
6 big bars
in each
packet
for 3d.
.
WfiIGLEY'S (Australasia) LTD.
Rosebery, Sydney, N.S.W.
A.
:
*3r
<-
\
,
/
\
w
V
a
(A
•r
A
\
The Righl’ Sort
screwm
Oster Bull-dot Ratchet
Die Stock No. 102 R
screws £, f, £, 1 and I £
inch tube. One of 1 1 sizes
with and. without ratchet, each
screwing 4 to 8 sizes of tube.
in one tool!
Screws 6 Sizes
of Tube.
Oster Bull-dog Die Stocks take
the bother and perspiration out
of tube screwing. Popular the
world over for the 5 Big Oster
Features. (1) Self-locking
dies. (2) Self-centring guides.
(3) Dies open after cut, no
backing off. Dies reset in-,
stantly to size. .(4) No loose
bushings to lose. (5) No
breakable small parts.
Made with ratchet handle for
use in cramped space.
Carried with extra parts by ironmongers, machinery and
plumbing supply houses.
The Oster Mfg. Co., Cleveland, 0., U.S.A.
Australasian Representative: CHAS. WRIGHT,
Turner Chambers, 16 Hunter Street, Sydney.
/
ASTER Bull-log
U Screwing Tackle


NGROVIT
LEATHER
LT
MANGROVITE LEATHER BELTING
is pliable enough to grip the pulleys with
unwavering surety, tough enough to stand
the most strenuous “pull,” strong enough to
outwear any other belting, and moderately-
priced 'enough to be the most economical
belting in existence.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowicl, Managing Direotor),
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney,
W. Australia; Gibbs, Bright &Co., Fremant'o
S’th Australia; John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaida
Victoria and Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co.«
Melbourne.
Better than Carbon Steels
A new steel that retains its efficiency longer than ordinary carbon steels,
and one that is practically unshrinkable.
“An Eagle on a Globe”
Chrome Vanadium Medal Die Steel
Specially suitable for stamping Gold, Silver, Bronze, Copper, Brass, Tin,
Whiffe Metal, etc.
Deliveries from stock in round bars 10ft. long. Diameters fin., lin., 1 sin.,
ljin., lfin., 2in., 2iin., 2fin., 2Jin., 3in., 3Jin.
Prices and particulars promptly supplied on request to Desk “A.”
STEEL CO. LTD.
Makers of Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent St., Sydney.
261 Latrobe St., Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle.
John Reid and Nephews, Brisbane.
Paul and Gray, .Ltd., Newcastle.
Charles Atkins and Co., ltd., Adelaide.
A< *LE on > °
Ufar^jTTO
We are Sole Agents for “Fibrolite”
Australian-made Genuine Asbestos Cement
Sheets and Slates, “Fibro-C” Cold Water
Paint, and suppliers of the following build-
ing materials. We can consequently quote
you at the best-obtainable prices.
“FIBEKLTC” Building Board.
“CREOWOOD” Stains.
“REXIEITE" British-made Roll Roofing
and Dampcourse.
“CERTAINTEED” Roll Roofing.
REINFORCED Cement Tubs.
REINFORCING Bars for Concrete, etc.
Write for Price List and Particulars.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 lines).
681-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
30 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE. ’ Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We etudy your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 234, inches,
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, (Kinoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £25.
Correspondence invited.
D.gW. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy,* MELBOURNE.
-*- r
We manufacture what is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Lines listed.
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from 12in. to Bin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include —
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRA CT WORK— Send Specifications
ALDERDICE LTD., Warrnambool
TUDOR ACCUMULATORS
for All Purposes.
THE PIONEER PLANTE PLATE.
THE TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.
(Australasian Office)—
P.O. BOX 2550. Cuiwulla Chambers,
TELEPHONE: CITY 8931. CASTLEREAGH STREET SYDNEY,
A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
o
Sssg
Hi
Runs on
Kerosene
Safe.
One Gallon of kerosene
will light 32 Lamps for 4% hours.
PULL PARTICULARS FROM SOLE AGENTS—
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD.,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke "*reet, Melbourne.
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
WHY HESITATE? GET ONE NOW AND STOP YOUR REPAIR BIEE.
\
THE SHALER Vlll-KIT Increases Your Tyre Mileage 75 per cent.
ss SLfthUS s?tobX c ro"§n^ir” e thS e rßsssTrsifs v*ivT^i h z™y
«sw»sku« JKSiSMffir
Absolutely safe. Barts Gasoline or Methylated Spirit* without.spoke iK. Any
SS^ b^lMrs^e^r P ma«i4l-everytb.n g but the fuel. Fully ttickeled-will
last a
PRICES-
As illustrated, the
The SHAPER VDE-KIT, for tubes or casing (Larger)
SHARER “FORD” KIT, for tubes
Complete
or
20/-
25/-
PRICES—
The SHARER TUBE KIT, for tubes only ..
The FIVE-MINUTE VUECANISEK,
round, six oval
patches
The above prices include necessary repair material £
Assortment No. 1, including Rubber, Cement, Wax
full instructions. Extra repair material for Vulcanisers.
per etc. 5/6 complete. Assortment No. 2, twice the size, 8/- complete.
m &
o*3
Pitt Street,
Dorr Thickeners are now standard practice
in all Mills using Flotation.
And they render possible the economic
exploitation of Low-grade Gold Ores and
Dumps by means of CONTINUOUS
COUNTER CURRENT DECANTATION.
We have the Data—if you have the Dump
or Mine get into touch with us.
i
Si
DORR CLASSIFIERS will separate Pulps
at 200 mesh, or 40 mesh, or any inter-
mediate size—-with over 90 p.c. efficiency.
Capacities from 100-600 tons per 24 hours.
In Closed Circuit with Ball or Tube Mill
they give a perfect product at any mesh
desired, and return the oversize to the Mill.
No Crushing Plant is complete without one
—send for Data Book by the DORR CO.
Sole Agents and Manufacturers In Australasia- DORR PATENT CLASSIFIER. ramnpfflnwn NSW
N. Mining Engineers, lO George Street, Camperdown, N.a.w.
