

The
9
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
N-S W- MONT de PIETE D & I C9T LIMITED,
74- Castlereagh. SL., 74. Sydney.
• 1 1 * l l * i i 1! I! ’
iiiim I
ON ALL CLASSES
OF SECURITY
'WITHOUT POSSESSION
a
tf/d r /rfes<jf 215-17 Swanston SUlelb.. 40 Adelaide St, Brisbane. _
29King St., Newcastle. l97*CasHereagh St.,& 159 George St.,West,Sydney.
CAPITAL &200.000 ‘Phorte City 932s .
Joseph W.Hill , General Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
Improved BIG CHIEF
Oil Engines.
à
Head and
Shoulders
above all
others.
Sizes:
1 X h.p.
te 8 h.p.
Cm \
Stationary
and
Portable.
Order One TO-DAY,
CASH OR EASY TERMS.
R. L. Scrutton $ Co. Ltd.,
161 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
ft
6/^
pFLE
£
Nothing
to Aroui
About,'"
?V
o
a
Are the Best
..■■;& 1
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organa.
J
HA N S E N’S
unket
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Used the
World Over
MOTOR
...CARS
1
I
1
put
1
Protects iron roofs and metal surfaces.
Pabco Paint is manufactured from materials that resist corrosion. Roofs and metal
surfaces protected with this preparation are wonderfully improved, and have many
years added to their usefulness.
Iron is so high-priced that its protection is of supreme importance, and it is a distinct
economy to give it a coat of Pabco Paint and preserve it.
Illustrated Booklet and full particulars from
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L
LOCOMOTIVE, agricultural, mining and general engineers.
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. . Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines.
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks, etc.
* A 3 NO AS I ‘*an 'O3 *® NIALOI3H '3KHO »» U, ) B V
Ahsium arncf) pio aqj,
“A.W” “T.Y.R.”
“A.W. PREMIER.”
ARMSTRONG,
HIGH-SPEED DRILLS.
HIGH-SPEED STEEL.
Sole Australian Representatives:
Gilbert Lodge 8 Co. Ltd.,
115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
Inter-State Stocking Agents:
A. SCOTT & CO., 164 Edward Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, Etd., Worands Bldgs.. Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.), Etd., 894 Hay Street, Perth.
Manufactured by Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH &. CO. LTD., Manchester, England.
á
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay.
ã
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2100.
Thursday, May 13, 1920.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


. T |fß NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1920 is now ready, and will be posted
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD., 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.— Adtt.
THE
SUPREME
SUNBEAM
The golden rule in building a house or a
car is—first get your foundations right.
The rest is then a comparatively simple
matter.
m
c -
The frame and springs the foundation of the
car — ar e, in the Supreme Sunbeam, specially
designed and constructed to withstand heavy
road shocks.
This is why the Supreme Sunbeam is the favourite car
for overseas use and all extra-strenuous conditions.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Export Dept.: 62, Oxford St.,London, W.l, England
Cable Address: “ Subeamoco, London."
Head Office : Wolverhampton, England.
a
å
Solo Agents for New South Wales: FKASEK & YVWLXSiFORD. 822 George Street, Sy4o#r.
The better the Pen
the better the deed.
If it be hard wailing at the desk
—Waterman’s Ideal. Nothing
else so good. Speeds the work
and improves its quality. If it be
ordinary correspondence—then again
Waterman’s Ideal is triumphantly the
best. With a quickness that is as
gratifying as it is surprising, letter after
letter is finished and you find yourself
through the job in half the time. This
speedy pen is making life easier for
millions of people. Why not be one of
the number ?
WatefniaiVs
(Ideal)
Foufit^ftPen
Three. Types :
“ Self-Filling, ’ " Safety,' and “ Regular.”
Of Stationers ancl Jewellers everywhere,
L. G SLOAN, Ltd.
Comer
London, England.
*
In
ifTtu ill itiifi n ui i m*
fV!
V/
w-^'V
S! mFw'" y
/a.
A V$
Hi
( is
0
Pure wool of the finest quality
is spun end woven by British
workpeople in Britain to make
these Jason Stockings and
Socks with the Finish that
affords sheer comfort ail
.through wear
Simplify your Sock-buying
and ensure satisfaction by merely saying
“ Jason.”
All that is best in all-wool socks, latest in style, soft-
est in Finish and most perfect in fit will then be laid
before you.
Quality
Stockings and Socks
For Men, Women and Children.
Cood Drapers and Stores everywhere can
supply you. See the Jason Tab.
Manufactured by :
W. TYLER SONS & CO,,
King Street, Leicester, England.
-4S‘
a
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited for old and young. For Coughs,
Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis, Influenza and the Prevention of Consumption.
C.HUDSON
What the Medical World says:—The Lxkch :
“Proved to be as effective bactericidally as is
creosote.” THIS REPORT FROM THE “LAlf-
CET” LABORATORY IS UNDOUBTED EVIDENCE
Of the VALUE OF BUMENTHOL JUJUBES as to
ANTISEPTIC.
1/6 a Tin.
Sold at Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers; or
Post Free from the Sole Manufacturers —
Hudson’s Eumenthol Co. Ltd., Sydney,
•n receipt of 1/6 in stamps of any Pro via ee.
The Red Page
Three Singers
-Lime is characteristic of Ilebbletliwaite, but
once or twice he rises to grander heights.
Here is “Passing,” one of his really notable
poems:—
Sacred bell at eventide,
Calling, calling, far and wide,
All, ko sweet and low!
Sweet and sad as autumn light,
Low and sweet as closing night....
Pilgrim, let us go.
Youth and beauty far away,
Lean together in the may.
Shining head to head ;
But for us tiie solemn peace,
(Do not sigh) and great release
Of the happy dead.
Come, as children, steal to Him
Who through all the ages dim
OfTers calm relief ;
Stricken heart, so fierce and wild,
Come, as comes a little child,
With thy wasting grief.
Far above the creeds He stands
With His pierced and pitying hands
Stretched to thee and me;
He is Love’s last tender bed,
Bosom for the weary head
To eternity.
Not much of Hebblethwaite is as good as
that, but everything he touches takes. ou
something of quiet charm. ’A good book,
and a man to be thankful for. *,
Tbe last word is quite intelligible, but the
previous ten barks would furnish a good sub
ject for a Melbourne Literature Society’
debate. By the time their meaning wa
arrived at would they add anything to the
sum of human wisdom? Or take this from
“On Manly Beach”:—
It was not once and it is not now.
Fulfilment sudden existed and ceased;
Strong to be, though one knows not how, '
One wave seethed forth from the wind-wet east;
And Time all past for this end subdued
Suns and planets, and bud and beast,
And men s joy and their laughter and passion
and feud,
In the riot of battle and feast
“Alice in Looking-glass” might get Humpty
JUmmpty or someone to interpret that, but
the average reader may quite reasonably
question whether the author himself knew
what he meant when he wrote the lines.
But the befogging of the reader can be
managed without having recourse to jabber-
wock. Here is “A Tavern Tragedy”:
I didn’t hate him, not a bit.
As from your beer just off the' brim
loud spill a nudge and stamp on it,
My life repudiated him.
I’d never seen him once before
He lurched in snivelling; he'looked weak:
He propped himself against the door
And as he breathed I heard it creak.
I had no need that he should live!
His sad glance shifted everywhere
So pitiful, so fugitive,
It seemed he staled the very air.
Then for one flickering broken phase
Forgot I all things, in one blink,
How months and months, and days on day*
Had maddened me with rage and drink
Some Thing within me startled, gazed
Upon him through my opened eyes,
And I looked on, dazed, merely dazed,
Half-heedless of my own surprise.
My hand leaped forth and snatched a knife
Its broken edge was bent and brown.
Oh, I was sickened with his life!
He fell, fell from me crashing down
I didn’t hate him I don’t knew....
Without one sound, one word, one curse,
I gave one stab, one movement —so — ’
And spilt him from the universe.
That is well told; its only faults are that
it isn’t true and that the author can’t
make you believe it. There are better
things in the book than the verses quoted,
notably the long blank-verse tale of the
“King of Sardis” with which the volume
closes. Rupert Atkinson has ability and
industry which should lead him somewhere;
but he will not get anywhere while he main-
tains a pose which makes his work look dis-
honest. His ear may not be good enough for
song; but that cannot be urged as an ex-
cuse for starring his faults as if they
were merits. Neither can his lack of some-
thing new to say be condoned by his saying
old things in a clumsy and unconvincing
fashion.
Day Dreams, by H. Leonard Hyde (Vidler,
Melbourne), is mostly commonplace, but not
commonplace of a particularly injurious
kind. Sample:—
The sky has donned his coat of blue.
The clouds have blown away,
Because a friend both good and true
Has crossed my path to-day.
The ground seems soft beneath my tread—
Ah, what is friendship worth ?
When Truth and Loyalty have wed,
Then Gladness rules the earth.
I mind not very much about
The weight of earthly cares,
For I’ve a pal whose heart is stout,
Who in my trouble shares.
The happy thoughts but one day old
Have gone—the sky is grey—
And all is gilt that once was gold—
A friend has passed away.
The portrait of a young soldier faces the
title page; he may do better.
1 l he Poems of James Hebblethwaite (Vid-
ler, Melbourne). A great deal of the verse
m this volume has been previously published,
but it has not grown old; and its collection
in a substantial book is welcome. Hebble-
thwaite may not soar very high nor plunge
into great depths, but his voice is sweet and
true, and there is a fine sincerity about all
his work. The newer verses, such as
“Itheims” and "The League of Nations,”
preserve something of the quality of the
old, though it is necessary to go back to
the inspirations of more than 20 years ago
to find the poet at his best. Vei'y tender
and delicate is his choice of the word, and
there is a fine elusiveness of suggestion about
much of the thought. The color is seldom
strong and the movement of ( the verse i.s
rarely forceful, but there is compensation
in the gentle cadences and the tinted mist
that veils the pictures. This volume is
not quite the work of a pale scholar, not
quite the musing of a nature-lover who hears
a whole world in the twitter of a wren, not
quite the clear singing of one who finds in
song his chief reason for being; none of
these things, yet with a hint of all of them.
Lake this from “The Library’’:—
Ah, Heaven! the folios clad in orient-blue,
Madonna-blue, and those in sunset-red
Ot an imperial Saint, or the dark hue
From the dream-fading sheen of a cope shed,
Have fair large prefaces by men long dead
Telling of loiterings and of slow delay!
And here from joy those nameless ones are fled,
And from their leaves rise odors of decay,
r amt precious mustiness as sweet as early May.
4 Flagon of Song, by Rupert Atkinson
(Vidler, Melbourne). This is a large
volume of verse which from cover to cover
belies its. name; for if there is one thing
more evident than another about these
rhymings it is that they have no singing
quality. The lines creak at the joints in a
way that could only be justified bj r an eager
desire to force on the reader a volume of
thought so abundant that it almost defied
the niceties of metre to hold it in. But
there is no such mass of thought to offer as
excuse here. Stripped of a certain violence,
which the author mistakes for strength, the
thought is rather commonplace: and, how-
ever loud he lifts his voice, he does not
create a feeling of sincerity. It is notable,
too, that the choice of words seems to be
not only bad, but deliberately bad. Take
Song” 2! ° r tW °' This is lrom “ Wassail
Down on the earth,
Frown in your mirth;
Yet in a blink
Our lives and theirs are one :
What shall they shun?
Mark how each self-sure face
Mimics our grace,
Up from earth’s brink!
Fate schools them hereafter,
Fools for our laughter—
Drink!
Burdens
Iu n country whose verse-writers are
mostly singers, ' or, at least, talented
whistlers, comparatively little use has been
made of the refrain. Yet it is a perfectly
natural form of expression for those who
do but sing because they must. It lends a
charm to old ballads like “Robin Good-
Fellow” and “The Nut-Browne Mayd,” an
has been employed effectively in compos
tions as dissimilar as “Ricketty-Oicketty
Dock” and Swinburne’s “The King
Daughter.”
In verse, that is intended to be taken mor
or less seriously the refrain requires carcfu
handling. “Pat-a-eake, pat-a-cake, baker
man” is an excellent line in its place, am
so, too (although not as good), is Shaks-
peare’s “For the rain it raineth every day,
provided we accept the ditty in which
figures as a passable example of nonseus
verse; but when fatuous old gentlemen lik
Charles Knight seek to invest it with
philosophical significance it becomes merel
an irritating piece of idiocy.
Max Nordau, in “Degeneration,” relie
considerably upon what he regarded as un
meaning refraiqs in the work of great poet
—such as Swinburne’s “Apples of golc
for the King’s daughter” and “Small rec
leaves of the mill water” —when leaking hi
futile attempt to prove that genius is closel;
allied with madness and that all the world’
great literary geniuses, with the exception
of Shakspeare (who delighted in unmeanin
refrains like “In spring time, the only merry
ring time, when birds do sing hey ding
ding ding”) and Goethe, had straws in thei:
hair. Nordau called the habit “echolalia,’
and, being a typical sciolistic Hun with
love for bogus logic, was quite incapable o
appreciating word-patterns for their own
sake.-- Critics of this brand dismiss as
valueless anything in poetry which would
not bear serious examination if put in prose
The dictum of Beaumarchais, that what is
too foolish to be said can be sung, does no
alter the fact that many things too elusive
to be spoken can be trilled, and this is om
way in which the refrain is of definite use.
Cheap versifiers are liable to drag in
refrain to bump out a poem. Nothing
could be easier than this kind of writing
One has only to invent a line and repeat it
at intervals, regardless of the consequences
and xn an . alleged poem of 10' four-line
stanzas one is saved the fag of creating nine
new lines.. This habit was satirised by
Calverley in a Jean Ingelow parody:—
Tlie old wife sat at her ivied door
(Butter and eggs and a pound of cheese),
A thing she had frequently done before;
And her spectacles lay on her aproned knees
The farmer’s daughter hath soft brown hair
(Butter and eggs and a pound of cheese) :
And I met with a ballad, I can’t say where
Which wholly consisted of lines like these.'
, Although the refrain can be introduced
into almost any old form of verse, it can
probably be used with most telling effect in
the ballade. Henley could take two simple
refrains like “Midsummer days! midsummer
days!” and “Midsummer nights! O mid-
summer nights!” and produce this:—
With a ripple of leaves and a tinkle of streams
The full world rolls in a rhythm of praise,
And the winds are one with the clouds and beam*—
Midsummer days! Midsummer days!
The dusk grows vast; in a purple haze,
While the west from a rapture of sunset rights,
Fault stars their exquisite lamps upraise—
Midsummer nights! O midsummer nights!
Simplicity was the keynote of Henley’a
refrains, whether he was writing of ladies’
names, with the burden “Anna’s the name of
names, for me,” or of dead actors, with the
recurring line: “Into the night go one and
all. Master of a more complicated and,
at its best, a more beautiful music was
Ernest Dowson. Consider the rich melodic
beauty in the recurring lines in these two
stanzas:—
Last night, ah, yesternight, betwixt her lips and
mine
There fell thy shadow, Cynara! Thy breath was
shed
Upon my soul between the kisses and the wine;
And I was desolate and sick of an old passion,
Yea, I was desolate and bowed my head:
I have been faithful to thee, Cfynara! in my fashion.
Ml night upon my heart I felt her warm heart beat,
Night long within mine arms in love and sleep «ke
lay; .
Surely the kisses of her bought red mouth were
sweet ;
But I was desolate and sick of an old passion,
When I awoke ftnd found the dawn was gray t
1 have been faithful to thee, Cynara ! in my tehio*.
(Continued on page 28.)


<a
VALUE IN DEPENDABLE INCUBATORS
.CX2BERS-JNCUOA
THE SUPERIOR.
Superior Incubators.
Opinions differ as to the respective merits of Hot Water
and Hot Air Incubators. We leave this question for you to
decide. We can supply the “Superior,” manufactured by the
Cyphers Co.; it is well built, well insulated and up to the
usual Cypher standard. The boiler and tubular tank are made
of heavy copper. This machine will hatch duck or hen egg 3.
It is fitted with a nursery space under the drawer, and remov-
able diaphragm for ease in cleaning. ...
65 eggs, approximate capacity, fitted with low legs (as
trated) ••.•••••••••• £7/7/(i
130 eggs, approximate capacity, fitted with long . . 0/ _
£lO/12/u
Complete with Tester and Directions.
Old Homestead Incubators.
The “Old Homestead” Incubator is hot-water heated,
and manufactured to meet the demand of those who believe
that hot water heat for Incubators is better than hot air.
It is a handsome, well-built machine, and
will give general satisfaction if operated
according to the directions supplied. The
heating device is made of copper pipes, with
a diffusing cloth of wire which carries the
heat from directly under the pipes to the
space between them. This evens up the
temperature so that on the egg level the
temperature is practically uniform.
The “Old Homestead” Incubator, made
in one size only—
Approximate capacity, 70 eggs .. £B/5/-
Complete with Egg Tester and full
directions.
Cyphers Incubators.
Tens of thousands of Cyphers Incu-
bators have been sold since they were
placed on the market some years ago, and
their fame has gone round the world.
Cyphers Incubators (as illustrated)
No I—l4o eggs, approximate capacity—
£l3/17/6
No. 2 —240 eggs, approximate capacity —
£l9/10/-
Special Ostrich Machine £27/17/6
MARE sure of hatching early chickens
this year. The time is now right
for getting busy ; you can choose with
confidence from Anthony Horderns big
stock of dependable incubators, ranging
from the 15-egg Reliable to the
16,000-egg Mammoth.
The Reliable Hatcher.
A Circular Machine, made specially
for those who want to hatch a small
ouantity of Chicks. It is made en-
tirely of Metal and is safe and reliable.
Success is assured if the user follows
out the directions given with each
Machine; we have had these tested
with satisfactory results. A Ther-
mometer is sent with each one —
Made in three s.zes—
-15 Eggs
25 „
50 „
15/-
22/G
457-
Brooder, for 15 or 25 Chick Size, 16/6
THE CYPHERS.
&o
' --
THE TRIUMPH.
Triumph Incubators.
To meet the wants of a large number of our clients who
want a larger number of Chickens than can be hatched in a
“Reliable,’J we have manufactured the “Triumph.” This is
a Hot-air Machine embodying all the latest improvements; it
is fitted with a Capsule Regulator and is worked on the
damper principle; it is thoroughly reliable and will give good
results if the directions are fully carried out.
40 Eggs (as illustrated) 50/-
56 Eggs, Improved, with Nursery space under drawer.. 75/-
Approximate weight packed. 561 b. and 841 b.
Packing for Country, 1/6 extra.
Columbia Incubators.
The Columbia is a first-class Incubator,
manufactured by the Cyphers Co. to meet
the demand for a popular-priced hatcher
that will give satisfaction under all ordinary
conditions.
Columbia Incubators have double walls,
including ends, back and top, are fitted with
Cyphers Co.’s Thermostat, are self-regulating
and self-ventilating, and when operated under
normal conditions need no added moisture.
Made in two sizes, both having long legs.
140 Eggs, approximate capacity £9/12/6
230 Eggs, approximate capacity £ll/10/-
We stock everything
required by the poultry-
keeper, whether he be in a
large or a small way. Both
the quality and the price
are right, bear in mind.
THE BUFFALO.
Buffalo Incubators.
in the construction of the New Buffalo Incubator
little wood is used. The casing is of galvanised-iron, and
can never rust. It is lined with fibre board, which elimi-
nates any loss of heat by radiation. The walls are double,
the space between the inner and outer cases being: well
packed; this makes an incubator as substantial and well
insulated as it i 9 possible to manufacture. The front is
made of hardwood, finished in the natural grain. In addition
to a glass door, it has an outer hardwood panelled door to
darken the hatching chamber and to preserve the heat.
No. 0 — 60-egg capacity £8
No. I—l2o-egg capacity £lO/15/-
No. 2—240-egg capacity £l5/15/-
No. 3—360-egg capacity £l9/18/6
American Standard Incubators
The American Standard Incubator is made by the
Robert Essex Incubator Co., and is fitted with a
fire- and smoke-proof heater, both very esential points.
The lamp font is made with the loin on top-—result,
no leaking. The two bottom diaphragms arc covered with
canvas and are removable for cleaning.
The American Standard system combines perfect ventila-
tion and perfect heating. It gives the eggs that natural
warmth that makes the perfect chicken.
American Standard Incubator—
Approximate capacity 70 120 eggs.
Weight packed 100 130 20.0 lb.
Cubic feet S 12 20
Floor space 30 x2l 34 x 2644 x 34 in.
£lO/12/6 £l3/10/- £l9/5/-
Full directions, Tester and Thermometer with each
Incubator.
Seod for a Coay of our 'atalogue of Poultry
Golds —nostei f rzz.
-AMERICAN
—OT»»in n T3T>
.STANDARD
-INCUBATOR
i
THE AMERICAN STANDARD.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.


à
Salt Licß,
Tonic Meals
and Foods
for All Classes of StocK.
á
SALT LICK will keep Sheep,
Horses and Cattle healthy and
vigorous.
â
TONIC MEALS ensure the health
of all Stock.
ä
SPECIALISED FOODS provide
a properly=balanced ration, and
therefore maximum production,
vigor, growth and health.
V
n
k
•r'w
o
4
\
c
kj
O
\\
/
Agents.—Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 6GC liourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Queen
Street, Brisbane; Messrs. Wm. Adams & Co., King’ Street, Perth; Messrs. Clarkson, Ltd., Bundle Street,
Adelaide; Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co., Hobart and Launceston.
FURTHER PARTICULARS STOCK FOODS DEPARTMENT A.
ttEGGITT L Tt -
PARRAMATTA
HEAD OFFICE ttG KING ST 6'TONl^^>rks:PaiTamatta)
yNSEEoaiff^
/aqxitt l t *
papramatta
Cfceboy on the bag
Guarantees quality
boy on thebao
guarantees qualify


For
A Clear Complexion
Constipation disfigures the com'
plexion with pimples and blotches -
Poisonous matter which should have
been expelled from the system is
retained and gives rise to impurities
in the blood.
Pinkettes quickly clear away all
offending matter without the least
griping or discomfort. They are a
corrective for bad breath, will clear
the complexion, and are recom-
mended for torpid liver, biliousness,
headaches, constipation, and when
ever a gentle laxative is required.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
How you can have the
Embroidery you Love
On your dainty blouse —your chic hat
—your new gown—your handbag, etc.
FOR THE. HOME:
On your curtains, your cushions, your
tablecloths, in fact, on anything.
'ryp f 1 * 'r,
m
m.
376
Machine for Hand Embroidery
So simple that a child can work it.
On Sale at all Leading Stores in Aus-
tralia. and shortly in N.Z.
Sole Australasian Representatives (wholesale
only):
Eastern Trading Co. Ltd.
Malcolm Lane (off George Street), Sydney.
Instruction given Free at above address
or by your local agent.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England.
CELEBRATED
r
»
8
|The Rapid Cure i'or Corn*
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young—hard or soft, and
that remedy is A’CORN SILK, which
removes the worst corn in a few days, and the
sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure—it kills them. It is a painless cure —
you don’t feel them going, it is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Woranda Buildings, Adelaide.
K. W. Bradley, ritzroy Bin dings, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Aberdeen House,
204- Clarence Street. Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart.
R. H. Maxwell & Co., 18 Howard Street,
Perth, W.A. [1
Travelling Goods of Distinction
We are the largest LEATHER GOODS SPE-
CIALISTS in the Commonwealth. The most
FASHIONABLE, DAINTY and ATTRACTIVE
HANDBAGS k LADIES’ LEATHER SPORTS
and MOTORING HATS are to be found in
SYDNEY’S SHOPPING CENTRES FOR
LEATHER GOODS. A cordial invitation is
extended to all to visit and inspect Stocks.
SUIT CASES*
SOLID LEATHER SUIT CASE, with swing
lid. Plain. 22in. 24in. 20in.
65/ 72/6 77/6 each.
SOLID LEATHER SUIT CASE, with cap
corners, drop lid.
22in. 24in. 20in. 28in.
82/6 90 / 97/6 105/ each.
BEST LEATHER SUIT CASE, Sin. deep,
secure handles. 22in. 24in. 26in.
90/ 97/6 105/ each.
Same as above, with special cap corners (as
illustrated). 22in. 24in. 26in.
105/ 115. 126/ each.
TRY OUR LAY-BY SYSTEM.
Country Orders receive Prompt Attention.
THE EXPERT MAIL ORDER CO., Box 2575 G.P.0., Sydney.
Also obtainable at AMERICAN BAG STORES LIMITED, Pitt and King Streets;
Strand Arcade, Pitt Street; and Sydney Areade, George Street, SYDNEY.
r 7«
i»V A
Price from
2/6.
Bust Bodice
from 12/6.
erse
z
CORSETS and LINGERIE
for HOT CLIMATES.
Madame Scum has been able to solve a
long-standing difficulty of well-gowned ladies
residing in hot countries. She has produced
corsets and belts that are perfectly com-
fortable when worn in the most trying heat,
which at the same time have lost nothing of
the unmistakably Parisian style that marks
every creation of Madame Soum.
Corset belts and bust bodices are rust-
less and washable and very comfortable in
travel. They have patented unbreakable
bones. Made of a special material they
retain their shape until absolutely worn out.
Madame Soum makes a specialty of dainty
lingerie, blouses, dresses in the lightest and airiest
materials for tropical climates.
Catalogue and self-measurement form on appli-
cation.
MAISON SOUM,
138 Brompton Road, London, S.W.
And at Paris.
cnsland c a iif n^
To the Tourist, Scientist, Investor
and, with a hundred voices from her millions
of acres, to the Man in search of Land.
Free Information on all subjects
available at once on receipt of this coupon
Name - - - ■
Address-
Queensland Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Brisbane.
S.B.
To the large army of sufferers afflicted with
Rheumatism, Gout, Calculosis, Migraine, Eczema,
Obesity and Acid Dyspepsia.
Take courage, for URODONAL dissolves uric acid as easily as
warm water dissolves sugar, and eliminates it without your being
aware of it.
Therefore, cast aside sticks and crutches, and straighten yourself as in the days
of youth and health. URODONAL will even permit you to eat meat and other
favorite dishes to your heart’s content. Salicylate, colchicum and iodides (by
means of which temporary relief is procured at the cost of disastrous after-elfects)
are entirely superseded by URODONAL. Thanks to URODONAL, the obese
regain their normal proportions, the weary take on a new lease of lite, and the
worn society woman regains and retains a clear and healthy complexion, through
the blood-purifying properties of this preparation. URODONAL is the great
discovery of the century, and is a boon to all; it is the secret of perpetual youth,
the means of salvation for the thousands of victims of uricsema.
PREPARED BY ETABLISSEMENTS CHATEEAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 10/9.
Prom all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australia.
Booklet containing Medical Opinions can be obtained from Chatelain’s
AUSTRALIAN AGENCY: 352 KENT STREET, SYDNEY. [1
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ehen!
Sweet day, with all its changes
Of light and color, dies,
And o’er the purple ranges
A homing eagle flies ;
Beyond my peering vision
Dear Beauty sinks, withdrawn;
I cannot keep the glory
Of sunset, noon and dawn.
We have been friends and neighbors,
The blithesome birds and I;
But, resting from their labors,
Their hour of sleep is nigh;
Grown weary of much thinking
On trouble wan and worn,
I have not found at sunset
The peace I sought at morn.
Time’s wear and wearing sorrow
The tall trees put away;
They shall grow green to-morrow,
As they grow green to-day ;
Some splendor loved, but vanished,
To-morrow I shall know;
For men by dawn and noontide
And sunset older grow.
Beyond all things that painetli
Is this, man’s lasting lot,
To know that Beauty reignetli
And still to see it not,
To watch the world grow narrow,
To feel the chill of years;
To gaze with blinded vision
To seek with deafened ears.
Small comfort is in knowing
That other souls there are
Upkiudled by the glowing
Of Beauty’s deathless star;
Small comfort is in feeling,
Among the snows and mists,
That still the splendor pulses,
That still the star persists.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Enigma.
“Nothing is /lost in the Universe.
Nothin's is lost. The spilt, bright watei
flashes , . ,
Into the sand, that in a breath is dry ;
And where it ebbed drawn lips as grey as
ushes
Droop, dumb, to nnregardihg earth-—and
die!
Nothing is lost. Ah. mockery of keeping
All riches folded in a futile dower
Until the night, when heedless dust is
heaping _ . ,
Above the hunger of life’s little hour.
Water for anguish of the soul’s travailing!
The great deep 6 tumble and the fountains
break
Within their granite bulwarks, unavailing
One desert’s drought of agony to slake.
The winds go by that bear the cloudy
galleons , ,
Laden with life for faint green rooted
souls;
And fast behind them race the fleet red
stallions
Whose blighting breath some awful hand
controls.
Bearing sad freight from some half-guessed
beginning,
Are ye for quest that gods alone may dare,
O, little Earth, O blind, black planet spin-
ning , „ . .
Or Doom-Star bound on orbit, of despair.
VICTORIA.
MAKIE E. J. PITT.
The Game in the Garden.
I am playing Hunt-the-slipper in the garden
of my heart,
And I don’t know who lias hid it, and I
don’t know what I’ll find,
But the dew is on my fingers as 1 press the
leaves apart,
And a mist is on the fountain, and the
stars are nearly blind.
I am playing Hunt-the-slipper, for the gate
was left ajar;
And I thought I heard one singing, but
the garden is forbid.
Cold, I think the search grows colder, where
Our Lady’s lilies are;
It is warmer near the roses —I can almost
guess what’s hid !
I am playing Hunt-the-slipper, but the walls
are builded high,
And the Stranger that they speak of. he
would surely be dismay’d—
Hist! I heard one breathe in hiding, and
my feet are fain to fly.
Yet I’ll linger to upbraid him —need he
know I am afraid?
N.S.W'.
ELLA MCFADYEN.
Silence-Song.
Locked out of life the singing shadows creep,
Trailing old melodies of mournful sleep.
Slow bells of Rest they ring about the soul.
Ding-dong, ding-dong the muffled measures
toll.
Love, I have heard them how they swing
and sway
High in the turret-dreams of yesterday.
Oh. wind your arms about me closer still;
Hold me and fold me till the moonbeams
thrill.
Heart, make no murmur as we kiss and
cling.
Hush! hush! be still, and let our sad souls
sing.
Perchance some shadow at the sound may
yearn.
Yearn and remember and with tears return.
N.S.W.
ZORA “CROSS".


THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables:
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones:
Nos. 5 and 113.
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS
of
QUICK-REVOLUTION ENGINES
in
AUSTRALIA.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCIES GUARANTEED.
*
W
i
m
' tlK'aisM
Pajp,
itfij'Sklt
■
j
i ‘
■
Nfcfc.
Vertical direct connected steam-driven Electric Generating: Set.
ENGINES SUPPLIED FOR ANY PURPOSE.
MELBOURNE:
Gibson, Battle (Melb.) Pty. Ltd.
AGENTS.
SYDNEY:
E. Hinks & Co. Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister and Co. Ltd
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
Brown
PERTH:
& Bureau Ltd.
LONDON:
I'rancis Chapman Son & Deekes, Fenchureh Street.
å
The Biggest Room in the World
We are reminded is the Room for improvement.
But when the best Cheese in Australia has been
Unproved into
LUNCHEON CHEESE
that room map not be so very big after all. The
quality of “Rex" Luncheon Cheese never varies. It
is always piquant to the taste and perfectly
matured. “Rex" Cheese aids digestion—even weak
digestions are benefited by taking a little after each
meal.
Use it for sandwich making and savories. Ask
for “Res." in the 5-os. tins and refuse substitutes
containing only 4-oss. All Grocers sell “Rex"
FOGG ITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
Packers of “Rex" Pure Food Products
Curers of “Rex" Hams and Bacon j 1217
J Y ?/.
•ir
OYSW)TS
nc^q3
i&sl t
JONES
ecszs.
A PERFECT
SHAVE.
It’s British.
a
Christopher Johnson & Co.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Their Famous Full Hollow-Ground
Metropolitan Razor.
PRICE 10/0,
Of all Stores.
NORMAN
If unable to procure send Postal Note to their Agents.
BAKER & LONGHURST, 50 York Street, SYDNEY.
328 FlindersStTeet, MELBOURNE.
Farm & Station Equipment.
Prominent in the equipment of
an up-to-date Dairy Farm or
Station is a kit of Veterinary
Instruments and Appliances.
The possession of these items
enables stock-owners to apply
quick, safe and efficient treat-
ment to stock without incur-
ring the risk of delay and
veterinary expenses.
Send for our Catalogue, which
enumerates essential Veterinary
Items which should always be
at hand wherever stock is raised
for orofit.
Write for a copy to-day.
Denyer’s Latest Model
Spaying: Emasculator.
“N
The most perfect Spaying Emasculator known
to Veterinary Science to-day. Its special
construction embodies the latest scientific
improvements, which entirely eliminate the
possibility of internal bleeding. Our Cata-
logue contains full and explicit directions
for the safe and efficient use of this modern
instrument.
PRICE 60/- Postage in N.S.W., 9d.; Inter-State, 1/2.
DENYER BROS.,
Th* House for Veterinary Instruments and Appliances,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GOODRICH
Safety Tread
u
TYRES
BEST IN THE
LONG RUN.
“Best in Tie long run”
is a slogan almost as
old as the history of
tyres. It means “the
long run” of Good
Faith and Good Will:
a mirroring of the con-
fidence placed in Good-
rich Tyres by users
everywhere. Goodrich
Tyres are made from
the very finest
materials obtainable,
by expert workmen of
long experience, and
are favored by the motorist because they give
MILEAGE, SERVICE and SATISFACTION.
DUVAL <& CO
13 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE. MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 41.—N0. 2100.
TIIUIiSDAY, MAY 13, 1920.
Price 9d.
THE ETERNAL NARK.
HIS NIBS: “Well, how does the 40-hour week suit YOU, old cock?"


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia lor tlie AVliite Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO~SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 J(>s. per arruum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
2000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions arc observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and, adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —•will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received arc those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be, obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus ; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.CJi;
E. T. Hole, llolerth Satire, Service, :l Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; International House,
!,Jf Kerk Street, Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., l[Jjl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. —Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets. San Francisco; Western Neivs and Publishing
Co.. 10 Third Street, San Francisco, Cal., U.S.A.;
J. Roland Kay Co., 18 }9 Conway Buildings, Chicago,
U.S.A.; Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington,
U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth Avenue and 27tli Street,
New York; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago; Golden Gate Neivs Agency,
71!) Market Street, Chicago; George Hussey. Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 703 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port. Said. Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and C'o., Merchants,
Singavorc.
Ceylon. —lP. G. P. Perera. 10 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai, Kulamadau and
Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the. Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua. Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands. 10oz.. Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
10oz., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lsd.; Bloz. to 10oz..
3d.; lOott. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, hos., lid.; and
id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MAY 13, 1920.
THE SUCCESS OF TROPICAL
AUSTRALIA.
There is nothing wrong with tropical Aus-
tralia except the lack of capital cities in that
part —by far the most valuable part—of the
continent. Certainly the unreasoning Bol-
shevik rages more furiously in the North
than elsewhere; but that, too, may be
accounted for by remoteness from Houses
of Parliament and the authority, however
feeble, that resides in them. The extent to
which continental Australia lias come to
depend on its handful of capital cities is one
of the marvels of modern civilisation. There
are, it is true, mining towns which are
inevitable and more or less temporary—
places like Broken Hill, Ivalgoorlie, Bendigo
and (with some qualifications) Newcastle.
But apart from them and the metro-
politan areas, the only town with as much
as 21.700 population that Australia could
show at the 1911 census was Geelong, and
that is a seaport in the same big inlet as
Melbourne. Next, still leaving out capitals
and mining camps, are Toowoomba in South
Queensland and Rockhampton and Towns-
ville in the tropical part of the Northern
State. So the tropical towns rank third
and fourth among the big centres —as Aus-
tralian big centres go. Of the 29 towns on
the continent which neither live by being
seats of government nor on eating up the
accumulated mineral wealth of past ages
Queensland above the heat-line has four,
which is rather more than its share, seeing
that it represents only about one-eighth of
the continent.
* * *
The value of capital cities in Australians
wonderful centralising scheme of things is
shown in the fact that Brisbane, unwisely
planted too far up a river, has 152.000
people, while Rockhampton, unwisely planted
too far up a bigger river, has 10,000, and
Townsville on the sea has 14.000. The drag-
ging power of the place where the Govern-
ment and the bureaucrats and the legislators
and the big foreign traders and the agents
and the loans and the jobs and the swindles
are, and where the “honors” and promotion
hang out, makes all the difference. If the
positions were reversed Rockhampton or
Townsville or Bowen or Gladstone would be
the big city and Brisbane the big seaside
village. If there were three or four States
with as many capitals instead of one there
would be three or four Brisbanes in lieu of
one. No place in Australia grows now to
any visible extent —so wonderful has the
centralisation policy become —unless it is a
capital. Even the mining towns don’t grow,
though they exist because the pits can’t be
dug up and removed to the capital. Being
a capital can make Brisbane a place of
182,U00 people; Perth, up a river and depen-
dent on Fremantle for its port, though it
isn’t the best kind of port, a place of 133,000;
Melbourne, up the heart-breaking Yarra, one
of 725,000. Not being a capital can make
Portland, with a better harbor than any of
the three, and with a railway managed on
the “double-cross” system by Melbourne, a
decaying hamlet with 2307 inmates. Tropical
Queensland, by reason of its special fitness to
be a white man’s country and foV other
reasons, has made the best fight against the
disease. Rockhampton, already quoted, is a
lonesome example of a place (not a tempor-
ary mining settlement) which is not a
metropolis, nor within 380 miles of a
metropolis, yet has accumulated 15,500
people and acquired a sort of soul of its own.
Townsville is a still more rare example of
a place which isn’t a metropolis nor within
740 miles of one, yet has compiled
nearly 14,000 inhabitants and a sort of feel-
ing of self-reliance. They and the smaller
towns on the same coast are outposts of
progress. Their existence, as compared with
the stretch of desolation along the coast
between Sydney and Melbourne, between Mel-
bourne and Adelaide, and between Adelaide
and Fremantle, where Albany has about 3700
people and one of the prize harbors of Aus-
tralia, shows that the North is a remarkable
success as such things go in this country.
But Brisbane within the last five years lias
distinctly wakened up to the centralisation
game, and has done marvels in tin* way of
gathering under the shadow of its bureau-
cracy a larger and larger proportion of the
population. The North is to be systematic-
ally emptied and made a failure unless it
gets a few independent States of its own.
Capitals are the only remedy for depopula-
tion that Australia knows, so the obvious
thing is to have plenty of them and scatter
them all around.
Australians of this generation are an anom-
alous people. The tropical section is more
than half Australia —the Australia that
counts, for nobody can count the l,luo,oUU
square miles, mostly in the temperate zone,
with a rainfall of from lOin. to nil per
annum. This is the region where the east-
west transcontinental railway doesn’t find
one permanent stream in 1200 miles. Yet
all the seven political headquarters includ-
ing Canberra are in the smaller portion, and
about 90 per cent, of the railways. It is
on the north that the future of Australia
depends; the south doesn’t matter to any-
thing like the same extent. This nation has
told the world that a pure white race can
live and work and prosper in the tropics, and
that it has therefore a right to keep colored
races out. As it is the one community on
earth that has categorically made that state-
ment, it has to prove its case single-handed
or else fail. And if it fails it will almost
assuredly have to fight for White Australia
single-handed when the pressure increases,
for the mostly-colored empire can’t be ex-
pected to spend blood and treasure to up-
hold a theory which we haven’t put into prac-
tice ourselves. At present Australia’s policy
declares that nowhere in the tropics, nor
within 350 miles of the tropics, is it pos-
sible for a white Excellency or Minister or
politician or bureaucrat of importance to
live and work, even though he may toil at
light labor indoors with a punkah and an
iced drink and other luxuries. The Canberra
idea is a further declaration that that tender
plant the Governor-General can’t be expected
to struggle and perspire at the job of sign-
ing an occasional Bill within many hundred
miles of the place where the White Australia
doctrine is being put to the test. Tropical
Australia is governed from cool places out-
side as India is governed from London in
order to tell the world that it is a nigger
country just like India. A straight line
drawn from Brisbane to Adelaide and an-
other from Adelaide to Perth would cut. off
about one-seventh of Australia —the coldest
seventh—and all the Governments that this
country owns. They are crowded there to
keep up the fiction that six-sevenths of the
land is nigger land, and in proof to attract
white people away from it with the one
infallible means of attraction.
* K # *
Tropical Queensland at all events has jus-
tified itself in this way —that if bloated
aggregations of the ruling class and the para-
sites which that class gathers around it
are not counted, then tropical Queensland,
though of recent settlement, ranks very
high for population and progress. But the
world will judge by the gross population
figures only, and in that view the North,
if it hasn’t failed, is certainly meant to fail.
A supreme chance lies in putting the metro-
polis of Australia beside one of the big rivers
or on one of the tablelands well above Capri-
corn. It is the one opportunity to tell the
world that the white man can live above
Capricorn, not as a winter visitor or a per-
spiring martyr, but as a matter of course.
Canberra jambed among a huddle of political
centres on a peninsula and an island as far
south as it is possible to go without being
drowned in the cold South Sea is the poorest
advertisement the White North ever got. Yet
it has had several poor advertisements.
Perth hanging on to the southern corner of
its tropical State; Brisbane doing the same ;
Sydney fairly close to its southern boundary
and a mighty long way from the northern
one ; Melbourne and Adelaide clutching with
the grip of despair to their southern fringes:
Hobart perched where there is nothing solid
between it and the Antarctic and starirfg
anxiously Polewards in hone of sighting an
ieeberc—-thev are all evidences of the absur-
dly of a rich tropic land with a frostbitten
policy. _______________
SOME REMARK ON LOYALTY.
The striking railwaymen of M.L. manned the
Prince of Wales’s train the other day, "to
show their loyalty”; and in case there might
still be lingering doubts on the subject, thej
cheered him enthusiastically when he came
amongst them. Loyalty had its origin in
religion. The prophets addressed God as
the medievalists did their emperors. So
long as the divine-right-of-kings principle was
taken seriously, it was logical that princes
should be treated with the deference due to
semi-supernatural beings. But as the old
brand of religion waned, with increasing
freedom from persecution, another reason tor
loyalty appeared. It became the basis ot
the English system of government. In the
Middle Ages loyalty was not the monopoly
of one exalted family. The classes were
carefully compartmented, and all were sup-
posed to be loyal to one another. Ihe earl,
if he was a good earl, was loyal to his king,
but he was also loyal to the tenants on his
estate. The trader was loyal—loyal to those
who bought his goods, and to those who made
them. It is a simple matter to blacken an-
tiquity. The recipe is to set the selected
worst of that time against the general average
of to-day, and thus arrive at the required
conclusions. The method also has its atti ac-
tions : wickedness is always more sensational
than humdrum virtue. And that, in part,
is why most people know <i good deal about
the wicked barons and very little about the
work done by the Guilds; all sorts or details
concerning the inhumanly ignorant treatment
of lunatics and lepers, and hardly anything
about the charitable organisations of the
period. In many ways there was more prac-
tical democracy among Britishers 300 years
ago than there is to-day. Profiteering, for
example, was a criminal offence, and so
was any form of gambling in the necessaries
of life; and the legislation was effective.
The councils of the different industries saw
to it that the work in each trade was well
done and at a fair price. In culture and
in commerce England led the world. And
then loyalty began to die. Not the shadowy
sentiment which it is conventional to express
towards all sovereigns—whether they are
selfish misanthropes like Queen Victoria,
or amiable worldlings like Edward VII., or
serious workers like George V. but that
loyalty between man and man which had
done so much to build up England.
The antithesis of the old system is indi-
vidualism. Herbert Spencer claimed that
the State should not give poor relief or un-
dertake the care of public health, or even
a mint or a post office, or build a light-
house. The abolition of the Corn Laws and
the arrival of complete Freetrade were to
solve all troubles. The English masses
would know real freedom and prosperity tor
the first time in history. It was to be each
man-for himself and let the fittest survive.
In the wild social and commercial dog-tight
which followed the inception of the Free-
trade era the fittest did, of course, survive.
There were unheard-of fortunes, and also
unheard of poverty. The modern slum made
its appearance. Socialism, as we know it to-
day, was born. That is to say, the form
of Socialism which is based not on a desire
to ameliorate by State or other action the
troubles of the unfortunate, but on hate.
The strike habit, which is a growth of the
last 60 years; and which has accordingly
been loosely attributed to ‘‘too much educa-
tion.” is really a natural development of
ruthless individualism. The “general strike”
is a more or less logical development of the
older system of local strikes. The object
often achieved—of local strikes was to black-
mail concessions out of individual employers
for individual organised classes. The idea
of the general strike, of of a strike in some
key service such as transport, is that the
organised classes may be able to blackmail
the rest of the nation; or, that failing, bring
about a revolution. It is only another manifes-
tation of individualism, and a plagiarism from
the procedure of capitalists, like those Lan-
cashire manufacturers who since the war
ended have been making profits of many hun-
dreds per cent, regardless of how it hits
the poor. The idea of friendly service be-
tween man and man, between class and
class, has died so completely in the past
century that when a Royalty appears who
is capable of showing how the gracious thing
used to be' done, there is a wave of approval.
The M.L. railwaymen are under no illusions
about the Prince of Wales. They don’t
regard him or any of his family as God-
appointed. They know that the present
King of England is only a President with-
out most of a President’s powers, and that
the main object of the Prince’s tour is to
make the throne safer for the dynasty. But
the spectacle of an enormously rich Prince
who is courteous and considerate to all
classes, and who punctiliously fulfils his
duties towards those with whom he is
brought in contact, wins people even while
they smile knowingly at it. Everyone is a
loyalist in the presence of fair treatment,
kindly feeling and good manners.
But mere affability would be no use if
he who displayed it had shirked the obliga-
tions of his position in other directions. This
particular young man hasn’t. He has done
his job to the best of his ability all his
life: and it is not a light one. Any young
employer with his record of good behavior,
solid work and approachableness would be
regarded as affectionately by those around
his as the Prince is. And no body of
workers will get the most out of their em-
ployer unless they are able to afford him
at least some of the sympathy which
the Prince was able to command from
the M.L. railwaymen. This is not a
demand by implication for a revival of the
bond-man system of the 16th century nor
yet for the hatftouching convention of pre-
war England. It is a plain business propo-
sition. If men are to work together success-
fully there must be mutual ' respect and
liking; in a word, loyaltv. Nothmv nf r<'ne
has ever been achieved communally with-
out it. The wild men who, in Australia, are
mostly more or less illiterate foreigners, have
another recipe. They propose to make the
community happier by the propagation of
hatred. It is hoped that when "sufficient
hatred has been generated a social upheaval
will occur such as the one which has cost
Russia so many millions of lives in the past
five years. If it were the only way out for
the democracy of Australia there "might be
some sense in struggling to get to the blood-
bath of revolution. But the agony is
entirely superfluous. Individualism in all
its forms —from the laissez-faire business of
the Cobden school to the anarchy which
succeeded the Kerensky regime in Russia
—has had an ample trial; and it has failed.
Australia is the ideal place for a demon-
stration of the other policy. It has no indi-
genous cheap labor worth mentioning; it
possesses a tariff which should keep out the
product of sweated labor in other countries:
and its form of government is democratic.
If to the wealth of the country and to the
vigor and intelligence of the inhabitants
there could only be added a good understand-
ing between employers and employed, the
Commonwealth would solve its domestic
problems at once. Every rich man might be
as popular and respected, in his own sphere,
as the Prince of Wales is in his: all his
employees would, in that case, work as
willingly for him as those of M.L. did the
other day. Profiteering would stop on the
one hand and strikes on the other. It is
merely a matter of loyalty, which nowadays
is almost entirely a product of decency.
MA’S NEW GOVERNMENT MAKES A
START.
Just as the rather disillusioned Theodore-
Fihelly Government of Queensland begins
to roll in its stride and puff heavily, another
Labor Ministry starts in N. S. Wales with
youth in its favor and the blaze of poetry in
its eye. Minister Mutcii has assured him-
self that the Education vote is totally inade-
quate, and is breathing like the smoke out
of the mouth of a dragon about tbe vast
things that require to be done. That the
vote is inadequate no one doubts. In Eng-
land education is vastly more economical
than it can be in any Australian State,
though even in Australia there are degrees
of economy, Victoria being the cheapest
State to educate properly and Westralia the
dearest. It is a question of density of popu-
lation. If a sound, able-bodied, f.a.q. teacher
can instruct 50 scholars and there cun
always be collected 50 scholars for him to
instruct, then there is no waste of teacher.
But if, by reason of there being a mere
smattering of population outside one huge
city and a few towns, many teachers have to
be wasted on 10 scholars and the pedagogue
is really sailing in ballast, then the cost of
educating these 10 is increased 500 per cent.
Yet in England, where practically every
instructor can be worked to his full capacity,
education rates (payable by the tenant)
commonly amount to 2s. a week where the
rent is 205., and the London County Council
alone spends nearly £9,000,000 a year on
schools, which is about 40 per cent, more in
proportion to the population governed than
N. S. Wales has ever attempted. Tbe
inefficiency of the N. S. Wales service was
admitted by ex-Minister James, who wanted,
not to raise money by taxes as J. Bull does,
but to float a loan. Minister Mutcii, who
says' that James’s revelations weren’t a
patch on the horrors he has to unfold,
promises to ask for large grants for educa-
tion purposes ; and in the absence of better
information, also in view of the party’s
record, something extra-hefty in the way of
loans seems probable. McGinn, Minister for
Motherhood, Courtship and Marriage, has
made no definite claim for money yet, but
Premier Stobey proposes borrowing locally
£2,000,000, mainly, it is alleged, for distri-
bution among distressed farmers, which sum
represents about twice the value of the last
year’s wheat crop.
As for Minister Dooley, his contribution
is that the £500,000 allotted by the late
Government for house-building is hopelessly
inadequate. His proposition is that “every
resident in the community should have a
house of his own.” As to finding the money
for the grandiose scheme, Mr. Dooley has as
yet said nothing; but he has alluded to
"the undoubted shortage of labor in building
construction,” and has announced that the
remedy is to make the work "more profitable
and attractive.” No doubt that ought to be
the remedy; but what are the facts i heu
wages were recently raised to make building
more attractive the union dictators at once
decided to increase the shortage of labor by
working four hours less. If the wages were
raised sufficiently they would probably order
the men to work two days less. A thrifty
race might be induced to work more hours
by being paid more per hour, but the dicta-
tors at present in command of the building-
trade and a good many other Australian
unions don’t want the workers to accumu-
late wealth. The idea is that they should
work only long enough, even if it is one
day per week, to keep them above hunger-
level. Thus they remain “the proletariat :
the “victims of capital,” instead of being
capitalists themselves; the noor, grievance-
haunted, dead-level congregation of the high
priests of cheap eloquence; the constant
payers of “levies” to support strikes which
often have little interest for them, or to
prop up bankrupt papers that few of them
read or to start papers that fail to appear.
Saturday is now Baby-Killing Day in the
building trade —a day set apart at personal
loss for increasing tbe house-famine so that
the children of fellow-workers may lose then
best chance of life, through the unwholesome-
ness of wretchedly overcrowded homes--be-
cause the union dictators have ordered that
the recent increase of wages should, in part,
at least, be used that way. Thus there is the
curious spectacle of men who profess to
want a Saturday morning holiday sacrificing
it in dreary, unpaid picket duty so tba
they may terrorise other "free” workers into
becoming law-breakers and baby-killers also.
Minister Dooley dare not offer a remedy tor
this work-stoppage by coercion, nor does he
offer any protection to the coerced. Mis
idea is merely to increase wages, so that the
same dictators, working on the same pnn


ciple, may make Friday a day of stoppage
also.
* * * *
The other day in a uot-very-well-kuown
industry, the bacon trade, a demand was
made for more wages (which was probably
a reasonable demand), less work and con-
sequently scarcer and dearer bacon, and the
employment of only one youth to 10 adults,
so that bacon-men may gradually become
quite insufficient even if the _ population
doesn't grow, and may develop into a close
corporation. It is the standard theory that
the average family to be provided for con-
sists of father, mother and three offspring,
being 30 offspring (15 sons and 15
daughters) to 10 fathers. It thus seems
that on this new principle one son is to be
brought up to his father’s trade (or to some-
body else’s father’s trade, which comes to
the" same thing), so that through scarcity
the trade may almost die out, while the
other 14 remain unskilled odd-jobbers, or
chronic loan-workers. This tendency fore-
shadows a time, if the time hasn’t already
arrived, when even a £lO a day wage will
do no more than ss. to bring to light the
skilled workers required for Minister
Dooley’s schemes; in fact, doubling the
wage may produce only half as many, count-
ing not by heads but by days worked. Pro-
bably all the loans in the world wouldn’t
then provide Minister Mutch’s schools or
Minister Storey’s £1,000,000 worth of
wheat silos or the million extra houses that
Minister Dooley aims at building. These
men all have big spending schemes, but
schemes for the vastly more important thing
of increasing production are totally absent.
Their basic theory that high pay alone will
achieve it is a fallacy. Some of the highest-
paid people in the world produce nothing.
THE BUSH APOSTLE.
Enclosed please find £1 Is., which is my sub-
scription to the end of 1920; and have a couple
of beers with the change.— Note from the heart of
Australia to a northern paper.
To make character of the strongest a man
■should rub shoulders with his fellowsto
produce genius solitude is the right environ-
ment. Australia with its wide spaces and
its crowded cities offers plenty of oppor-
tunity for the manufacture of both; and if
tlie city wares are not always in keeping with
the prospectus, at least it can be fairly
claimed that we have evolved a genius of the
bush. A hundred and twenty miles north-
west of Alice Springs there may be a Siiak-
speabe prospecting in the ranges, or a
Milton may be boundary-riding where the
camel-pad joins up with the sunset. There
may be a Mozart dreaming splendid har-
monies to the buzzing of a mouth-organ, or
a Wagner putting his soul into a tin-whistle
on the most northerly kerosene-case in tropic
Australia. The “mute inglorious”—not
always too mute —may be in any solitude re-
mote or near; but it is the genius oi: the
continent itself, rather than the individual
genius that gets into personal touch with the
stars, which our solitudes have specially de-
veloped.
The fine moral strength exhibited in daring
to be alone has missed the notice of most of
the philosophers. True, the wonder of
Robinson Crusoe laid hold on a lost genera-
tion of Englishmen and has continued to grip
the imagination of nine or ten generations of
wholesome boys since then; and the awful
fate of a marooned leper, shut off till death
from his kind, has brought a sob to the
heart of the ages. But that kind of enforced
solitude is utterly different from the loneli-
ness of the far bush, which is accepted, not
willingly nor of special choice, bur as part
of the day’s work. Man in all his earlier
development kept to the pack; his hatred of
being alone is very deep-rooted. For ages he
left vast areas empty and thronged into nar-
row spaces, fighting with a furious zeal for
a footing there when the congestion grew
too great. It needed the lure of easy plun-
der or the fiery whip of religious persecution
to get white settlement fairly started in
America; and even to-day, while Belgium
and parts of Britain and France are crowded
to moral suffocation, the call of the wider
lands is not half so insistent as the desire
to get a less uncomfortable place in the
tangled mass that throngs the European ant-
heap. Even the less densely populated parts
of Europe itself make no special appeal to
the congested millions. Misery is better
to be endured where a hundred suffer priva-
tions of a uniform pattern than where one
endures lesser evils of a new and original
design. And all this feeling for companion-
ship is in the blood and nerve-tissue of the
Australian who scorns it and dares to go out
into solitude.
The very fact that the pull of the gregari-
ous instinct is so strong gives a moral aspect
to solitude which it could not otherwise
possess. An Adam, sole and only dweller in
a whole planet, could not have been ex-
pected to look kindly upon a freshly-created
rival if such a person had strolled into the
Bible yam from the other side of the Eu-
phrates ; but a man, the descendant of thou-
sands of men who have grown up and lived
all their days in close association with and
dependence on their fellows, feels his kindli-
ness to the other man grow and increase in
proportion to his distance from masses of
men. In a really lonely place the normal
human being develops all the best social
qualities. The sunerficialities of society do
not count. Solitude is hardly likely to make
for brilliant conversation and glittering wit;
but it does make for a gentle consideration
of the feelings of others, for a readiness to
render them service and for a high and noble
view of life which can see the best in the
worst and find ready excuse for wrong and
failure. Under a hard, hot, blue sky, face to
face with miracles of dawn and sunset and
nights of awful splendor, man ought. to
shrink into a philosophic insignificance in
which his own personality is but as that of
the gnat and blown sand-grain when com-
pared w r ith the immensity around him ; but
the old social spirit, which was the soul of
tiuman evolution, robs nature of half its
force, and lightens the weight of the stupend-
ous pressure of sky and earth, of night and
day. The man is alone, the weakest thing
proportionally in all that wilderness; but
.he does not see himself alone, and in his out-
look lies his strength. He is a part of a
great whole, one of a fighting army whose
vanguard is only a few days’ ride behind
him; he is the scout, the forerunner ot the
others; but in the most utter loneliness he
is never alone. All that pillar of manhood
called civilisation supports and upholds him ;
and linked with that he has the proof of ten
thousand years of triumphant struggle that
he is stronger than the earth and sky,
more forceful in his seeming impotence than
all the procession of nights and days. So
he holds his head high, and does not falter
before the power of distance or any sense
of his own futility. His thought goes back
to his brother men, and the meanest thing
that ever wore bowyangs or bit a pen takes
on a beauty and a dignity which the tovvn-
dweller fails to see. He develops the genius
of solitude, which is a feeling of utter good-
will for mankind in the mass and the indi-
vidual men w 7 ho cross his path. Allowing
something—and the allowance need not be
very great—for differences developed under
different conditions of heredity and environ-
ment, hospitality to the stranger bears a
direct relation to the remoteness from dense
population of those practising it. The
farther the home from the thronged high-
ways of the world, the wider stand its doors.
The Arabian desert tent is sanctuary even
for the murderer for two days and the night
between. Solitude is the sweetening force
of society.
In the middle days of the war there broke
upon the intelligence of London the strange
phenomenon of a band of hard-fighting, hard-
swearing soldiers, who loved laughter and
hated parade-ground discipline, yet in their
dealings with their fellows showed a cour-
tesv such as would have done honor to the
most cultured classes of the most cultured,
lands. In England there had developed an
ideal which found its expression in the term
“gentleman.” A gentleman was one who,
because his social position enabled him to
do it, was able to present a gentle front to
the world on all ordinary occasions, to help
the weak, to suppress all outward showing
of anything that might make his neighbor un-
comfortable, and yet to carry himself with
a strength and dignity which revealed the
manhood beneath the quiet of voice and
manner. To be “gentle” alone was not
enough ; the ideal emphasised manhood too.
But the very nature of English life practi-
cally shut out from the ranks of gentlemen
all the classes of men who had to get to
grips witli real things to earn real bread
and butter; and here were men—obviously
men who had been in hardest grips with
these things—who were in all essentials
gentlemen. London is a little puzzled over
it yet; for in London of all places in the
world such a phenomenon must necessarily
be hardest to understand. But the places
at the Back-o’-Beyond knew the men and
the reason. Not all Australians had tasted
the bitter-sweet of the far inland; but the
spirit that comes from those places worked
as yeast in the mass of the A.I.F. The
Bigger Australianism which wakens in the
wide solitudes is an infectious thing; you
cannot live long in camp with it and not
find the temperature of your manhood rise.
The same feeling that often could find its
only outlet in a general invitation to the
bush pub to “coman’aveadrink” did wonder-
ful things for a wounded comrade in Ne-
man’s Land and lifted through weary months
of pain and danger much of the bitter bur-
den of the trenches. It was a liberal educa-
tion to many a barber’s clerk in khaki to be
near a real Australian who had felt the
spirit of the great solitudes. London saw
and wondered at the thing it saw; but could
London know how gentlemen of a larger
growth were made beyond the bounds of her
knowledge and tradition?
And if London did not know neither did
the Australian cities with the evidence so
often before them. Into the office of a
northern newspaper floats a letter from the
wilderness: “Enclosed please find £1 Is.,
which is my subscription to the end of 1920;
and have a couple of beers with the change.”
Only that: but the root of the whole matter
is there. The bushman cannot write a com-
mon business letter without making it some-
thing more than a business letter. The re-
cipient must feel the shy friendliness of the
man he has never seen. No; it is not busi-
ness, as the towns understand business; yet
it is intensely human business of the bigger
and kindlier sort. The world would go very
sweetly if there were a thought of that kind
behind every international deal. Honesty,
when you get down to the bed-rock of things,
is very largely a decent regard for your
fellow-man. With such a regard you might
fail to pay because your ships hadn’t come
home, but you couldn’t deliberately cheat;
and the man at the other end would have
the true feeling about the ships that didn’t
come home, so that nobody could lose in
the end. On the “have a couple of beers”
principle, trade might easily find the poetry
of exchange.
The generosity of the bush is only a small
outward token of an inward growth. Vou
need perspective to see the human picture
properly; and the bushman has not only
seen it, but felt what it means. And of
course his view is the correct one. Men
are a lot better than they know; and the
lower their estimate of themselves in com-
parison with their fellows the better they
are likely to be. It was Ward Beecher
who dryly stated the rather startling truism
that the real Apostolic Church must be the
one which makes most apostles—witnesses
to the truth. The bush is a very wide
cathedral, but in proportion to the number
who enter its broad doors it of all places
produces the most apostles—earnest, modest
witnesses to the truth of man.
D.M.W.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Treasurer’s Ghost.
In the Ma State revenue —paper money, but
still revenue —is rolling in as it never rolled
before. Of course, loan expenditure is
largely responsible. If a handful of people
spend £8.000,000 Of loan money among them-
selves in a year, no matter though they
spend it on the permanent and reproductive
work of poker or two-up. it is ouite on the
cards that, in the flush of hectic “prosperity”
thus created, the ordinary revenue will go
up £6.000,000. This has to be spent, and
another eight or nine millions of loans with
it, to keep the hectic flush at boiling-point,
and the year the loan doesn't materialise the
income may easily go down £10,000,000. But
it is a giddy whirl while it lasts. In 10
months the N. S. Wales takings were
£4,298,000 more than they were in the cor-
responding 10 months of last year—an aver-
age of £429,500 per month more to "blew.”
And April, when the new Ministry took
office, showed an increase of £676.825 over
April, 1919, so the new Government came in
on top of the wave of affluence. All the
same, the Telegraph reported
Neither Mr. Storey nor his Treasurer, Mr. Lang,
is at all enamored of the State financial position.
Both frankly confess indeed that they are enveloped
in a maze of difficult problems. Money is urgently
required for many things, and they are finding that
money is not easily got. A decision to raise a
local loan of £2,000,000 at once is referred to else-
where —.
Mr. Storey is thinking out a scheme for the em-
ployment of a sound financial expert, to have an
office at the Treasury and be always at the disposal
of the Government, to advise on the matter of rais-
ing loans and on State finance generally....
It is felt that Treasury officers are not in the
position to be able to give just that sort of advice
which is of most value to the Government when it
wants to raise either new loans or redemption loans.
And when doesn’t it want to do one thing
or both of them? The new Stipendiary
Loan-Raiser will have to be a very highly-
paid man if he is to fill the bill—more
highly paid than the Minister or the best
Treasury official, for he is to know how to
do things that both are incapable of. And
when his freshness wears off and he crystal-
lises into just what lie is, a Treasury official,
probably another man will be wanted to
stand above him while he lingers on as a
salaried fossil. In a community where the
Head of the State —Premier, Prime Minister
or President —was elected by the people for
a fixed term and had a free hand to choose
Ministers out of the nation at large, “the
sound financial expert” would, of course, lie
offered the Treasurer’s job himself. The
incompetent Lang would be dispensed with
—Lang who, with far the biggest revenue
on record to go upon, has got cold feet in
his first few days of office, and is looking for
an expensive ghost to do his one big job for
him. The biggest expert going would pro-
bably be available under the conditions sug-
gested, even at a sacrifice, for there are big,
capable men who love power and responsi-
bility and oven advertisement, and who have
the zest of battle in them. But it would
take a huge salary and a long appointment
to beguile that kind of man to be ghost,
understudy and whipping-boy for a medio-
crity whom he despised for needing a ghost.
And if he was beguiled the chances are that
his enthusiasm would dry up and his use-
fulness wither after two or three of his best
schemes had been altered out of all know-
ledge by incompetent hands and fallen over
by incompetent feet.
Five Years.
A United States Court has, logically enough,
sentenced James Larkin to five years’ gaol.
Larkin was once a well-known revolution-
ary in his own country, Ireland, where he
did his utmost to upset the alien Government
and drive the debris thereof across the
Channel. Being forced to leave he went to
the United States and started there to upset
the people’s own native Government and
drive it out of its own country, which was
quite a different matter. Apparently he had
an idea of making terms with the United
States. If it threw all its weight into the
job and secured the independence of Ireland,
then New York would be spared ; failing that,
New York would be burned. His adopted
country made it five years, and if the argu-
ment is renewed at the end of the term the
next sentence will probably be for life.
Larkin’s attitude, though more pronounced,
was exactly the same as that of Archbishop
Mannix, who proposes to make all possible
trouble- —and a man in his position can make
a lot—-in Australia unless our handful of
people do violent things in the cause of an
isle a little larger than Tasmania and
located just about as far away as it can
get. Australia is likewise afflicted with
Boles who want to burn it down to avenge
t lie wrongs of Poland, and with Russians who
would like to destroy our cities and sow
them with salt to get square with grand-
dukes who are or used to be in Russia.
Any number of benighted people seek to
tear down the most liberal people’s Govern-
ment on earth and replace it with an oli-
garchy of criminal lunatics as a protest
against tyranny somewhere else, and be-
cause it is the sort of Government they have
been asking for all their lives. Quite a num-
ber of people travel on the theory that there
is only one form of liberty, which is demoli-
tion and bloodshed, and entertain the idea,
which Archbishop Mannix helped to spread,
that the right way to show gratitude to your
host is to burn his house down. Australia
has secured the liberty that is embodied in
a complete form of self-government, and if
there is any development of liberty that its
people haven’t so far got they have liberty
to get it. Yet there are many strange, un-
couth, uninvited guests and imported direct
actionists who would riotously slay any citi-
zen on the way to the poll to exercise his
self-governing privilege, and say—also pos-
sibly believe —they did it to drag him from
beneath the hoof of oppression. The U.S.
was logical in giving James Larkin five
years. Australia wasn’t in letting Thomas
WALsn out before the end of his three
months. Both of them may be estimable
persons, apart from some kink for destroy-
ing the whole globe, but no country can
afford to keep such people.
The Church and Divorce.
A row has begun in the House of Lords
whose effects will presently be felt in Aus-
tralia. The Primate of England moved to
add to Lord Buckmaster’s new Divorce
Bill a clause “forbidding the clergy to re-
marry any divorced person in an Anglican
Church while the former husband, or wife,
is still alive. Lord Buckhaster pro-
posed a compromise “restricting this prohibi-
tion to the defendants in the divorce suits.”
The Church would have none of it. Under
the 1857 Act (Secs. 57 and 58), while no
clergyman is. compelled to marry the party.
to a divorce suit, lie nevertheless must “per-
mit any other clergyman” to do so. In prac-
tice many Anglican clerics have always been
precluded by their bishops from re-marrying
divorced persons. The significance of the
Primate’s narrowly-defeated move last week
is that the Church of England proposes to
come into line with the R.C. Church and
excommunicate an enormous section so far
as the sacrament of marriage is concerned.
Under British law. until 60-odd years ago,
the ecclesiastics had it all their own way.
None but the very rich could go to the Court
of Arches or the Consistory Court of York,
and those who did usually got little
satisfaction. The Established Church put
up a strenuous fight against the forma-
tion of the Matrimonial Causes Juris-
diction, and it has since opposed the
widening of the activities of the Court.
Yet every successive year since 1858,
when the Act became operative, has served
to show how badly needed the measure was.
Divorce petitions which in the sixties of last
century were numbered annually in hundreds
are to-day numbered in thousands. The cleri-
cal ideal was a “decree of separation” giving
the parties, one or other of whom may have
been guilty of an unforgettable wrong, the
choice between coming together again or
living a life of celibacy. The civil law aimed
from the first at enabling those who had
been hopelessly ill-mated to gain happiness
and help the State in another direction. As
the public mind sloughed the lingering pre-
judices of the Dark Ages, it came to be real-
ised that there were more things capable
of making married life unendurable than
those two —misconduct and cruelty—which
the framers of the English Canon Law had
taken over from the Romans. To many
people life with a habitual drunkard might
be more dreadful than with one who. under
special circumstances, had committed adul-
tery. or who was occasionally cruel in the
legal sense. Bearing such facts in mind
there has been a tendency all over the British
Empire to make divorce easier instead of
more difficult. If the Church persists in
butting against public opinion, and aggres-
sively using its power either to prevent
people from marrying or to cast a slur
on those marriages which have been solemn-
ised outside its jurisdiction, the answer of
the State should be the one which has been
given to the R.C. Church in France. There
people may be married in a Church if they
wish to lay an additional foundation to the
matrimonial edifice; but the real or binding
marriage in the eye of the law is the civil
contract.
An Ambassador and His Mission.
According to a Washington cable Sir
Auckland Geodes is “leading a vigorous
counter-offensive to fight anti-British propa-
ganda in the United States. He is com-
pletely over-turning the traditions of the
Embassy by making newspaper men wel-
come, by talking freely and discussing many
questions in the public eye.” The S. M.
Herald soothingly implied that the Ambas-
sador's innovations had to do with the
American Senate’s hostility to Wilson’s
covenant. It is the type of fiction which is
persisted in by our obscurantists who have
succeeded the Censor, now happily dead.
Why not admit the notorious truth that
nothing any British Ambassador did or said
could alter the attitude towards the Peace
Treaty of Republican America? Accord-
ing to the Republican doctrine, no power or
institution on earth except Congress shall
have the right to order the TJ.S.A. to make
war on, or even cease to have trade rela-
tions with, a foreign Power. That kills the
League idea stone-dead. Geddes has gone
to America on a more serious mission. His
chief business is to appease American
opinion on the Irish question—a thing Lord
Grey failed to do. His task is a formid-
able one. He has to demonstrate why the
British Empire fought for self-determina-
tion for certain small countries on the Con-
tinent of Europe, but denies it to Ireland.
If he says he believes in the rule of the
strong over the weak he is out of court;
if he admits the virtues of majority rule
his attention will be drawn to the fact that
at the last Irish elections there was an over-
whelming majority for self-government, and
that even in the six allegedly Carsonite coun-
ties the cause of Unionism proved feeble —
Fermanagh and Tyrone returned anti-Union-
ist majorities, and the total pro-English
majority was only three to two. 110 may
point to Ireland’s comparative prosperity,
largely built up on the money of English
taxpayers. The Irish answer is that the
money has gone back ten-fold in levies by
the British Treasury and in salaries to Eng-
lish officials; that the Irish are actually
being taxed to-day for the support of the
army which is keeping them in subjection;
and that, anyhow, prosperity is no salve for
that form of slavery which consists in a
denial of nationality. The argument that
Ireland is strategically necessary to Eng-
land has lost weight since the fall of Ger-
many ; and in any event it no more appeals
to the American mind than Germany’s late
plea about the unpleasant necessity of
occupying Belgium on similar grounds. All
the elevated arguments which were used
during the war to allure men to the colors
apply with deadly force to the case of Ire-
land ; and there are upwards of 15.000,000
citizens of Irish origin in the U.S. with
the will and capacity to employ those argu-
ments.
That it is the nor’-east and not the sou'-
east corner of N. S. Wales that has begun
to sharpen its knife with a view to cutting
itself off from Sydney influences is mainly
due to the circumstance that there are too
few people in the sou’-east to make a decent
town, let alone a State. In other words, the
curse of centralisation which the nor’-east
complains of has got in even more deadly
work in the south than it has in the north.
In this sou’-east corner and the adjacent
part of Yic. there isn’t an inch of railway
in a .belt 350 miles long and extending from
the coast clear back over the Dividing Range.
It isn’t that this country from Nowra
(N.S.W.) to Orbost (Vic.) is poor and
not worth a railway, for there is a lot. of
the finest land in Australia there, with an
assured rainfall and a splendid climate. It
has also magnificent timber, there are tens
of thousands of horse-power of electric-
energy in the Snowy and-other rivers that


T h f Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A u ?fl?.¥
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shar holders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
tumble down from the Australian Alps and
the roof of the continent, and there is known
to be a good deal of mineral wealth. Yet
this region is not only without a railway,
but it has hardly any roads worth mention-
ing. and few even of them have permanent
bridges. If the place were not cursed
with one of the finest harbors in Australia,
Twofold Bay. it might have had a chance
of getting things; but it would never do to
make Eden a port, because the nature of
the surface is such that it would not be easy
to keep a lirie far enough back from the
coast to allow even the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment to resist an agitation to have that
place joined up with it. So when they built
a line parallel to the coast they kept it on
the western side of the mountains, that
there might be no chance of a right-angled
line running down to the coast. The line
that was built is the weary and calamitous
line from Goulburn to Cooma and Nimity-
belle, which runs close to Dryberra and ends
high up on the Monaro plateau, where it
can’t well either go on to Victoria or get
down to the coast. Of course, it-makes a
heavy loss, for it hasn’t much traffic, but all
that it has goes to Sydney; and nothing else
matters.
“Motan” : So it has come to this. A
national appeal is being made by the Gov-
ernor-General, the Governor of N. S. Wales,
the Judges of the High Court and of the
Supreme Court of N. S. Wales, for £50,000
to start an Australian Institute for Re-
search. What has happened to our Govern-
ment-run institutions, the Bureau of Science
and Industry and the Tropical Institute?
The first should be extended to include patho-
logical research ; certainly the second should
be sent south and given more work to do,
as Anderson Stuart wished from the begin-
ning. With the headquarters of the Insti-
tute in Sydney there would be a great deal
more expected from the staff than it at pre-
sent performs, and there could be still field
units, as with the Rockefeller Foundation,
operating throughout Australia and New
Guinea and collecting material. The ad-
vantage to students of the two big medical
schools would be immense, while the keen
supervision of the institute’s activities by
other medical men would mean that in the
following annual report, instead of enthusing
over the find of a new mosquito perhaps,
there would be jubilation at the discovery
of a remedy for an old disease. Nay, that
disease might even be wiped off the Austra-
lian slate. The Tropical Institute till now
has been a failure. Let the Government
demand more from it, for the field is un-
limited. The Americans have tackled the
hookworm before us; but we can still do
something in a big way towards eradicating
malaria of the North. Or even that vile
disease sprue.
Hughes, introducing his bill authorising the
Commonwealth Government to take shares in
an Australian oil-refinery to which the
Anglo-Persian Co. undertakes to supply
200,000 tons of crude oil per annum, said
that shale oil could be dismissed with a few
words. Hughes ought to restrain his ten-
dency to dismiss any possible great Austra-
lian industry with a few words. Granted
that the arrangements by which Australia
gets its supply of mineral oils are bad, the
mere refining of foreign and necessarily
ocean-borne oil in Australia is only one
degree better. The comparative failure of the
shale-oil industry in this country in recent
years means nothing except that the pros-
pects were so splendid that money was
wasted wholesale on things that impeded
rather than helped the industry. The simple
fact, at any rate, is that in Australia, within
about SO miles of Sydney, there is the larg-
est and richest known deposit of oil-shale in
the world —of that fact there seems to be no
doubt whatever—and the development of
that and similar bodies, with the search for
Australian wells, ought to take precedence
over the Government-aided refining of Per-
sian oil.
In handing a housebreaker two years’ hard
labor at Darlinghurst (Sydney) Sessions
last week the Judge said, “There has been
a boom in crime, so there will have to be
a boom in sentences.” Why not. for a
change, have a boom in properly-directed
police activity? Robert Dell has just
written a very frank book about France, in
he says':—
If the proportion of undetected crimes in France
is abnormally high it is because the detective service
is so much occupied in tracking the political oppo-
nents of the Government of the day that it has little
leisure for tracking criminals.
It is the same in Sydney and Melbourne,
with the difference that the hue and cry
is directed not at politicians but at fan-
tan and pak-a-pu players and the patrons
of two-up schools. If half the police energy
which is expended on the hopeless task of
eradicating the gambling spirit from the
Chinese were concentrated on thieves and
thugs there wouldn’t be so many thefts, and
there wouldn’t be so much gun-play. The
visit of the Prince to the different big cities
will at one and the same time deplete the
suburbs and attract more policemen to the
congested traffic centres. If they can't be
induced, during that period, to spend less
time on misdemeanants and more on crim-
inals, something in the nature of a igil-
ance Society will have to be considered.
The old Socialist hope that State-employ-
ment would get rid of sweating has more
bunions on it every year. Miss Johnson.
sec. of the Women’s Division of the Vic.
State Service Federation, has just been tell-
ing the National Council of Women about
two lots of these favored people. At the
Neglected Children’s Depot the female assist-
ants get from 255. to 455. for OS hours’ work,
while one night nurse has charge of SO
children, including 30 babies. At the State s
mental hospitals 400 nurses get from 255. to
455. a week, and male attendants receive
from 525. to 695. Both lots have to sleep in
quarters adjacent to the patients. During
the war all these staffs voluntarily gave up
two holidays a month to help things forward,
but though the war is long over the model
employer refuses to restore those holidays.
It says it can’t get a sufficient staff to do so,
ON THE WARPATH.
QUEEN VANITY ( Patroness of Fashion ): “Well, what do you want in here?"
JONES ( married man) : “Want in here! I want the blighter who changes the fashion in
dresses umpteen times a year!"
which, considering the wages and conditions,
seems probable. At the big Kew Hospital
over 1000 days’ leave is due. The nurses
have repeatedly applied for more assistants
and are told that advertisements bring no
response. Which also seems likely. As for
the Education Department, junior teachers
begin at £4O a year and rise to £6O, at which
they may continue for 10 years. No less
than 800 sixth-class teachers, among the most
important of all the State’s servants, get less
than 50s. a week. The truth, of course, is
that we have wasted and continue
to waste vast sums of money on the con-
gestion policy; we have wasted other vast
sums to purchase votes; we have pushed
the “primary” industries, and therefore have
to pay through the nose to supply most of
our needs; and, instead of the whole com-
munity sharing the burden of our misdeeds,
we are putting grossly unfair loads on these
and any other public servants who don’t
threaten a vigorous kick. We may apply
palliatives; but until we completely mend
our ways the evils from which these people
suffer can only get worse.
Recent ships have been bringing the A.I.F.
gaol-birds back to Australia. It is not likely
that many of them will be detained to work
out their long sentences: indeed, numbers
have a'ready been discharged. These men
are excluded from Repatriation benefits, and
as they have earned no pay since ihev began
to serve their sentences, thev are turned
adrift practically penniless. Some of them
are men who in ordinary circumstances
would be good citizens, but bumped military
regulations; others deserved all they were
ordered to get. Good or bad, the harsh
treatment they received in the military ori-
sons is not likely to have improved them,
and their return to Australia raises a pro-
blem. The hard-luck story is likely to be
heard in many quarters, and most of the
men will be able to present a good case
about unmerited harsh treatment. The
appointment of a tribunal to review the
punishments inflicted on active service thus
becomes more imperative. Such of these
men as have been the victims of unfair
treatment should have justice done to them
without delay, and receive the Repatriation
benefits they will need more than other men.
And the ordinary citizen, with a kindly
feeling for the man whom he thinks has been
away fighting, should be saved from being
victimised, lie will leniain an easy prey so
long as be has a feeling that these prisoners
have had no chance to appeal from that
“military justice” which is notoriously im-
perfect.
+
“Daubep.” on paint and prices:—
That the National Gallery trustees have been
charged 7000 guineas and more for a picture by
Turner impels me to make a few remarks about
the high prices paid for pictures after the death of
the artist. Since poor Hilder's death his pictures
have soared in value, probably far beyond his own
wildest dreams. The big prices now being paid
for his water-colors would have cheered the slowly-
dying man had he received them during his life.
Like other men who have gone before him, he waited
for the casual and miserable cheque to arrive to
keep him alive, and he probably had a good per-
centage deducted from the sale price by his agent.
It is a poor art-worship or art-appreciation that
suddenly wakes up to the beauties of a man’s work
when it is too late to give him courage to do greater
things. But, of course, high prices are not a sign
of the appreciation of art. The death of the man
makes his work a thing to deal in, a thing to
sell, and sell again, for profit. If a man’s work
brings high prices after his death let it be so; but
let the rising value of his art be the artist’s insur-
ance policy for his wife and children, or next of
kin. The dead man’s family might be in dire distress
for all the world knows While his works are changing
hands at rising prices. I urge that our Parliaments
follow the French, and make it law that an artist's
wife and family shall get (say) 25 per cent, of all
increments on the resale of his pictures from the
day of his death.
There was a young man named Rupert
Brooke who, moderately well-known before
his death during the war, has become vast y
better known since that event. Partly be-
cause he wrote but little, what he did write
has increased enormously in value; and his
family will benefit by the demand for his
work for the next 40 years. In the same way
with our own Adam Lindsay Gordon —the
reputation which his verse made became
public property only a couple of years ago:
before that every increase in the popularity
of his work brought money to those to whom
Gordon committed his copyright. As
“Dauber” urges, a somewhat similar law-
should secure to the dependants of a painter
some benefit from any increase in popularity
after his death. At the present time the' pur-
chaser of his work is in the same position
as the purchaser of a book would be if no
more copies could be printed after the
author's death. That, of course, would pro-
duce enormous prices for the works of some
men; and the buyers are entitled to such
prices just as much (or just as little) as
buyers of pictures are entitled to the whole
increment in the value of paintings.
At next general election for the Vic.
Assembly a local option poll will be taken,
and the Scripture League wants a referen-
dum on Bible lessons in schools. Let’s make
a field-day of it, and have a third to deter-
mine whether or not the totalisator shall be
legalised.
Somebody with more distaste for trouble
than the average organiser has set Mel-
bourne’s tramway employees on the track
that leads away from strikes. By mutual
agreement the Tramway Board and its em-
ployees have arbitrarily assessed the cost-of-
living basic wage at 12s. per day. As from
Jan. last the rates have been increased bv
Is. 2d. per day, and henceforward they will
be increased or decreased every half year
according to the cost of living calculated for
the previous 12 months on the Government
Statist’s index numbers. Variations in the
wage will be the same all round, it being
assumed that it costs the £l5 a week em-
ployee as much to clothe, feed and house Ins
family as the £4 a week man. It is demo-
cratic, anyhow, and if other disputatious
matters are dealt with in such a sweetly
reasonable fashion the habit of striking every
few months should become out of date with
at least one large body of workers.
“Country I’ed”: The policy of the barred
way broods over our State-school play-
grounds. With padlocked gates they stand
silent after school hours, as if some god had
raised a blighting hand and thundered forth.
“Government property! Keep out!’’ And so
young Australians are forced to play in the
streets and the gutters, while earnest men
and women give or beg money to buy land
to turn into children’s playgrounds. But
there is a change coming. At the instiga-
tion of the Brighton-road (Vic.) committee,
the Minister of Education recently visited
the school to examine the committee’s pro-
posal to remove the fence and lay out and
equip the grounds for children’s recreation.
The Minister was “sympathetic,” but in the
usual cautious style said he would “call for
a report on the matter before making a
definite promise.” It T .s up to other school
committees to hop in and help to convince
the potentate that there is a wide public
demand for the change, so that kiddies may
no longer be seen gazing with longing eyes
through a big picket fence at a vacant play-
ground that by every right should be theirs.
“Sixenate” : A woman who tried through
the courts to get back some of the money
she had paid for the goodwill and insects
of a decayed Sydney lodging-house has
failed lamentably. Allured by talk of per-
manent boarders, the cleanliness of the pre-
mises and an assured weekly income, she
had parted with £175. to find that the
boarders had gone but the insects remained.
A large traffic is done in these houses, the
victims being mainly widows or single women
with a very little money to help them in
making a living. Usually the transaction
is so vague that there is nothing for the
hoaxed buyer to proceed unon; and some-
times the purchaser, made desperate by her
own loss, agrees to the agent’s suggestion
to help in finding a new victim, so that she
may be partially reimbursed. In one case
at least a woman travelled a houseful of
lodgers in her ramblings —the lodgers got
cheap rooms and other concessions. She
wms able to show a house doing a brisk
business —with always a lodger asleep cr
undressing in any room that was not fit
for a purchaser to see —and when the agent
clinched the sale he had a new' place for her
to take, to work the trick afresh. The
snide business needs a searchlight thrown
upon it: every agent in the letting line
should be licensed—one who runs his motor-
car now made his fortune out of just such
heartless transactions, one of his exploits
being to extract commission from the sale
of a boarding-house six times in one year!


The Curvilinear Concentrator.
A HIGH-CLASS CONCENTRATING TABLE POSSESSING THE FOLLOWING
NOTEWORTHY CHARACTERISTICS:—
High Efficiency—Extractions up to 97 p.c. have been obtained.
High Capacity—On unclassified feed up to 2 tons per hour.
Small Size, 14ft. x 4ft. Floor Space. Light Weight, 7cwt. Small Power, one-tenth h.p.
is ample. Water, four to ten gallons per minute.
SOLE MAKERS AND PATENTEES:
Price £9O F. 0.8.
Sydney, including Packing.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., 10-12 George Street, Camperdown, N.S.W.
POLITICAL
POINTS.
Frank Tudor, leader of the
Federal Labor party, has been
explaining to the House the
causes of unrest in Australia:
(1) The limitations of the
Federal Constitution in indus-
trial matters; (2.) the conges-
tion of the Federal Arbitration
Court; (3) the rule that an
award cannot be varied during
its currency. But these are not
primary causes; they are at
most only secondary. They
don’t cause the unrest; they
only stand in the way of the
removal of the unrest.
The Bulletin suggests
two things that arc
primary causes: (1)
That Frank Tudor, four
times Minister for Trade
and Customs, failed to
bring in his promised
tariff of High Protection,
so that industries were
not established in Aus-
tralia, and Australians were thus
left to the mercy of soulless
foreign profiteers over whom the
Government of the Commonwealth
has no control whatever; (2) that
Frank Tudor, as leader of the
Federal Labor party, neglects to
impress upon the rank and file the
truth as he knows it regarding
the urgent need for more produc-
tion, and by reason of the slowiug-
down, etc.j whose consequences the
rank and file don’t understand, the
costs of Australian goods are also
extravagantly high. The conges-
tion of the Federal Arbitration
Court is serious enough ; but if it
were not for the cowardice of Labor
leaders, wdio tell the Labor voter nothing
but what he wants to hear, there probably
wouldn’t be any congestion.
The £2,000,000 loan which the N. S. Wales
Government decided on in its first days of
office is to carry 51 p.c. interest and be
free of State and Federal income taxes. To
the big cos. and the big men who will supply
90 p.c. of the money this makes the loan as
good as 61 p.c. or more. Of course it would
be more honest to offer 6 or 61 p.c. all round
and let the holders pay tax; but Govern-
ments don’t want the people to know how
ruinously dear loans now are —they don’t
want the people to know, because loans are
handy things to buy votes with. Some day
a Government may go further and offer the
investor exemption from income taxes, rail-
way- and tram-fares and local rates; also
remission of sins. Then it may be able to
float a loan at 2 p.c. But it won’t be a
2 p.c. loan any more than this is a 51 p.c.
loan.
Testimony before the Fair Profits Com-
mission in Melbourne: —
Mr. Hill instanced having bought a suit-length
of imported tweed, 3Jyds., at 325. per yard, from
a Flinders-street warehouse. The actual weight of
the material was three and one-fifth pounds, and the
original appraised value of the wool would have been
about 2s. 3d. per lb.
Australia got 7s. 3d. for the wool, and after
the stuff had travelled 12,000 miles there
and 12,000 back here and paid a swarm of
foreigners’ profits and commissions Australia
got back its own sheep’s covering for £6.
Even after paying the weaver this left £4
or £5 for sharks out of one suit, all because
we haven’t trained men to build factories
and make machinery and produce cloth,
though lumpers and pick-and-shovellers are
plenty.
The Parliamentary business-sheet, as the
Minister - for the Navy -remarked in the
House only the other day, contains some
most urgent items. So serious a view, did
members take of the matter that on Friday
at least a dozen of them came back to work
after the luncheon adjournment. Those who
attended soon grew restive, how'ever, and at
3 o’clock the tension became so unbear-
able that the House adjourned. There was
a boatrace that day.
Those Labor people who are prepared to
take over all industries and run them at 24
hours’ notice had better make.it an offence
to refer to the Adelaide Hekald. Labor has
been running that paper for a good many
years; and, though there are enough Labor
supporters in the neighborhood to put a
Labor Government in power now and then,
the paper is once more so close to the rocks
that SOS signals have been sent up.
Efforts to get in money in the ordinary way
have failed, and the newest scheme is to
offer 40,000 10s. shares, with a gamble at-
tached—-412 prizes, running from £IOOO
down—for those who take shares, or tickets
in the sweep, or whatever you like to call it.
. Professor Darnley Naylor, of Adelaide
Uni., who went to Mt. Gambier lately to
drum up funds for the new Scotch' College
in Adelaide, left with 30s. and a vague idea
that something was wrong. Something is
wrong. The Mount, the centre of the rich-
est district in S. Aus., is 14 miles inside
the fence, and all its trading interests are
with Vic., with the result that it is between
the Devil and the deep
sea. So it curses city
influences even in its
sleep and wants a rear-
rangement of boundaries
that will let it freely
reach its natural harbor
at Portland.
“I WONDER IF HE’LL NOTICE THAT
THE STATIONERY’S A BIT SOILED.”
“Jack Beer” (Rabaul) : A diplomatic
situation is hanging fire in (late) German
New Guinea owing to the importunity of
our little allies in Japan. Some months ago
the Osaka Shosen Ivaisha despatched the
Nankin Maru to Sydney via Rabaul. On
arrival at the intermediate port she was not
permitted to lift any cargo, as nothing but
British bottoms are allowed to participate
in the trade between Australia and its new
Mandatory Possession. The 0.5. K., though
it knows that no British vessel would have a
hope of taking an inter-port cargo from
Osaka to Nagasaki, challenges this veto so
far as Rabaul is concerned, and, in spite of
the previous refusal, is sending the Madras
Maru to Rabaul, along with an intimation
that if this vessel isn’t allowed to trade it
will never send another. The local Jap is
an aggressive person, and he says that the
port will have to be opened to his ships, even
if the opening is done by Japanese cruisers.
The whole situation is one full of difficul-
ties, and needs to be handled with as much
tact as firmness.
THE ROYAL SERENADE.
There was an election lately in South Esk
(Tas.) for a member of the House of Dodery.
There were seven candidates and the winner
got 379 votes, while the also-rans polled
respectively 203, 201, 164, 151, 88 and 44.
The successful misrepresentative got 25 votes
in Launceston, a city of 25,000 people, and
there were 30 polling places in the electorate.
Another M.L.C. was elected for Macquarie
the same day, receiving 443 votes against the
retiring member’s 322. Still, a House like
that has its uses. It plays into the hands
of the Bolsheviks. When the Constitu-
tionalist says that in this country at any
rate there is no earthly excuse for direct
action, because w T hat the people want they
can get through Parliament, the enemy re-
plies “Bah! Who governs Tasmania?”
Edmund Jowett, Dr. Barrett and some
others have asked Poynton, Minister for
Home Affairs, to help along proportional
representation in the Senate. If something
of the sort isn’t done the Senate is doomed.
The last two general elections have shown
that personalities scarcely count at all in
a Senate contest. Three years ago, when
Hughes had things all his own way,, he
chose Josiah Thomas as a N.S.W. Senator;
and anti-Sosh voted for him, though till
that moment he had been for years the
Socialist member for the Barrier. At the
last election, when Labor’s enemies in its
own ranks had made it of ill-repute, only
one member from that party was returned
in all Australia; on the other hand, the hope-
less Charley Cox, a man who doesn’t know the
first thing about politics, was a triumphant
winner in N. S. Wales. Of course, in such
circumstances the Senate is losing respect.
It consists for the most part of such utter
mediocrities that the few capable men who
have somehow or other got into it are look-
ing for a chance to get out and into the
Reps.
The N. S. Wales wheat crop has panned
out at 4.296,630 bushels, the smallest since
1913. The rest of Australia has done no-
thing gorgeous to compensate. The one
thing certain about the crop is its uncer-
tainty. It was just under 13,000.000 bushels
in 1915 ; close on 67,000,000 bushels in 1916 ;
and, as already mentioned, it is 4,296,630
bushels in 1920. In 1903 it was 1,585.097
bushels, and next year it was 27.334,141.
If 18 months’ or two years’ supply was
always kept in hand there might be less
chance of selling at ss. 6d. (as at present)
and buying back at 255. (which is said to be
probable). Then all years would be equal
so far as the consumer is concerned, and
much nearer equal so far as the producer
is concerned, for part of the depreciation in
the times of glut would be saved him. There
wouldn’t even be the loss that the Ma State
is now incurring by buying wheat in Vic-
toria and bringing it across by broken-gauge
railway ; and that loss, though bad enough,
is nothing compared with what may be aljead.
Politics are a boomerang. The idea that
industries should be controlled by the men
engaged in the m,
though they may
supply little or none
of the money, is a
favorite one with a
certain class, though it
is the very opposite of
the nationalisation
principle. Distressed
applicants for office
have often adhered to
if during election cam-
paigns, letting the
future take care of
itself. Acting-Premier
Fihelly, of Queensland,
is no longer a dis-
tressed applicant, but
a man in office, and
the boomerang dropped
in to talk with him the
other day. In other
w’ords, the railway
employees wanted
their union secretary
appointed Commis-
sioner for Railways,
so that the 14,341 of
them might run the
property as they
thought best, while the
other 050,000 pro-
prietors paid up, took
any service that was
given them at any
price that mig h t
happen, and looked
pleasant. The other
050,000 inhabitants
and owners of the
railway system were to
regard themselves as
bloated capitalists and
outsiders. Of course
Fihelly couldn’t risk
losing about 98 per
cent, of the votes, but
all the same some
earnest supporters
were much disap-
pointed in him. They
said he was spoiled by prosperity.
The yellow-and-green insect is crawling all
over a row that has broken out in Tasmania,
where Mulcahy threatens to have Paynes
Senate seat declared an unrighteous perch
or an unlawful roost or property reasonably
supposed to have been stolen or something.
Mulcahy’s point is that Payne, who was the
third and last Speck Senate candidate to be
elected, would not have been so elected it a
really exhaustive count, as contemplated by
the Commonwealth Electoral Act, had been
made bv the returuing-officer. His idea is
that if‘O’Keefe’s (Labor) votes had been
distributed before Payne was declared elected,
Mulcahy, and not Payne, would have most
likelv secured the third Senate seat. Placing
him ahead of Payne and securing him a full
term in the Senate instead of the six-montli
job to which the fourth place on the poll
entitled him. Anyhow, the Tas. C.J. has
made an order authorising proceedings and
calling on the Chief Electoral Officer to say
why Mulcahy should not replace Payne.
N. S. Wales Chief Secretary Dooley went
out to the unemployed camp at Randwick
disguised as a floater of heavy, loans to look
at things for himself. He decided on a sys-
tem of food tickets and other relief, and re-
ported that “the Government was going
thoroughly into the matter of public works,”
presumably with 6 per cent, loans, “and
whenever possible unemployed men would be
absorbed in that direction.” But surely
house-building, wool-scouring, shipbuilding,
and the building, equipping and working of
woollen factories and machinery works and a
lot of things like that might be tried. If
they succeeded., or half of them succeeded,
they ought to supply work for ever, while
the average public job is finished in a few
months or years and then the men are back
at the old corner, while the interest goes
on for ever. A factory seldom loses more
than the whole capital, which often isn’t
much, and a house or ship doesn’t lose that.
On the other hand, N. S. Wales has 15 rail-
ways which never paid a penny of interest
and have also to be paid an old age pension
to help cover working expenses. Will Mr.
Dooley disguise himself again and consider
this matter? Will he ponder over it in a
false beard and whiskers,, or take a dispas-
sionate view of it with his hair dyed?
The N. S. Wales Government’s pose is
one of flabbergasted astonishment at the con-
dition in which their predecessors have left
the finances. This suggests that it doesn’t
read much. The pose was good enough 20
or 30 years ago, when the facts appeared only
once a year, but now the dreadful state of
the finances is published every month, and
every mere- ordinary, intelligent citizen is
supposed to know all the time what Storey
and Co. have just found out.
THE AUCTION SALE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Recent speeches in N. S. Wales Assembly suggest
that the price of politicians is falling in spite of
the rise in the cost of other luxuries.
What price the politician? Here you see
A man elected by the people’s vote,
Staunch in his smile, his large tongue moving free,
His jaws well hinged; and you can plainly note
His shrewd eye drooped behind the heavy lid.
For sale without reserve I Give me a bid!
What, fourpence? No! Start him at one-and-six!
Now, here’s your chance, l’in offered eighteen pence!
Oh, yes, he’s full of eloquence and tricks —
A dandy bargain this in every sense.
Two shillings—three—the bid’s against you there
Five bob! He’ll stand a lot of wear and tear.
One quid I’m offered. Have a look at him !
Australian-bred, but an imported type.
Too fat? No fear; his thought is always slim;
He’ll prove right-thinking when the time is ripe.
Twenty-five bob ! Going at twenty-five.
Against you, sir. He’ll keep a cause alive.
Going at twenty-five! Yes, turn him round!
Cheap at two quid to put to any use.
Opinions sound. Don’t lose him for a pound!
You’ll hear him promise once his tongue gets loose.
Going at twenty-five ! All done ? All done ?
Think of the great elections he has won!
Think of it, gentlemen. Yes, boots and all—
Tie, principles, thirst, reputation, pride!
He’ll answer to whatever name you call.
Going at twenty-five. Look at his hide 1
All right! He’s yours, dirt cheap. We must get on.
At twenty-five, sir ! Going, going—gone !
X.B.W.
CURSE O’MOSES.


Placing
the
Profiteer.
(For the Bulletin.)
A vision came k> me hy ni^W.
I Saw a ring of men hedight
In Hack frock-coats and Pariskds,
Andyellow gloves,and natty spats,
There werelkree Score of Jkem,
tkcy ran
Hack keeling well anolker man ,
And as Ikey raced Ike circle round
They ckanfed wilk an evil sound
And eack a duk keld in kiS kand,
And drove wilßvekcmcnee to land
A Plow ikd would kave troubled Sore
Tke fine,fat man that ran tefore.
Their gaee was full of righteous ire .
I caugkb at lenglkfteir message dire:
Beaked,kim down,and slaykim
He is a cursed profiteer! ”
BILLY. T.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
bhas:
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms —
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of —
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products—
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals. Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Sillcious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
_ containing Silver and Lead, Lead Drosses. Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFJLICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL, AUSTIN FRIARS, KC. 2
A. .T. SMITH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE ®.A.
CORE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ELECTRIC STEEL
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE."
We make a Feature of Specially Heat-treated Steel Castings for Ore
Crusher and Rock Breaker Parts. Battery and Mill Liners. Stamper
Shoes and Dies, Cams, Heads, Tappets, Ring Dies. Tramway Tyres.
Toughened Steel Truck Wheels. We can supply any quality hitherto
imported.
ALL STAGES OF MANUFACTURE UNDER MODERN SCIENTIFIC CONTROL.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
Telegraphic Address: ’‘Electric Steel.'
ALEXANDRIA. SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Burns, Philp and Co., Limited (Syd-
ney), ship-owners, Island traders, merchants,
etc. : Writ- Added
ten to He- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
Vfarch £ £ £ £
1908.. 69 787 10 p.c.= 30,000 10,000 29,787 374,701
1909.. 54,915 10 „ „ 30,000 24,915 399,016
1910.. 70,167 10 „ ~ 30,000 15,000 25,167 424,783
1911.” 79,890 10 „ ~30,000 49,890 474,673
£350,000 of reserves transferred to capital 124,673
1912.. 99,704 6 p.e. = 35,000 64,704 189,377
Cash bonus of 7i p.c., £62,500 .. 136,877
1913.. 109,389 5 p.c. = 40,000 69,389 206,266
Cash bonus of 5 p.c., £40,000 . . 166,266
1914.. 116,401 6lp.c.= 62,500 52,901 219,167
1915.. 98,317 6i „ „ 62,500 35,817 254,984
1916.. 118,583 74 „ „ 78,760 39,833 294,817
1917.. 161,466 74 „ ~ 78,750 82,716 377,533
1918.. 199,747 7$ „ „ 78,750 120,997 498,530
£lOO,OOO of reserves transferred to capital 398,530
1919.. 227,488 7) p.c.= 93,750 ' 133,738 532,268
1920.. 260,139 10 125,000 135,139 667,407
A couple of months before 8.-P.’s financial
year closed, when the engineers’ strike was
in progress, chairman James Burns com-
plained that the business was becoming so
difficult that there was “little chance” of the
co. maintaining its trading connections, and
the outlook was so black that the co. had
decided ‘‘to build no further steamers at
present.” But, notwithstanding the trouble
with the seamen during 1919 and the hold-
up following on the engineers’ demands in
the closing weeks of the co.’s year, during
which time the management declared it was
dropping over £7OO daily, the accounts show
a record profit, and shareholders’ divs. are
again elevated to 10 p.c., on a capital which,
about 18 months ago, was enlarged by
£200,000, half of it representing transferred
reserves. Even then the amount of profit left
in the business is greater than the 10 p.c.
div. takes out. Evidently, despite the gloomy
picture painted by its chairman, the co. has
been very successful in passing on the cost
of all troubles to its customers. Indeed, vete-
ran James Burns has now concluded that, not-
withstanding the much greater cost of man-
ning 8.-P. vessels, the outlook is not all
black, for he talks of negotiations pro-
ceeding for acquiring further tonnage “more
suitable for Pacific and Eastern require-
ments.” The co.’s chief trouble is that, being
an Australian concern, it must conform to
Australian navigation laws and industrial
awards, and it is operating in a field where
the foreigner, who does not have to equip and
man his fleet so expensively, is anxious to
trade.
During the war 8.-P. was able to expand
its Islands interests considerably, and good
progress is still being made. The directors
have now decided that it is advisable —
“particularly for administrative reasoos”
—to separate this side of the business from
the shipping, and are forming a subsidiary
concern, Burns, Philp (South Seal Co.,
Ltd., with a nominal capital of two mil-
lions. The Islands assets are being passed
over to- this new co. for 500,000 fully-paid
shares, while 250,000 £1 shares are being
offered at par to old 8.-P. shareholders in
proportion to their present holdings. What
profits are being made from this side of the
business is not disclosed by the directors, and
shareholders who take up the new scrip
have to trust entirely to the management as
to the prospect of returns on the additional
quarter-million they are invited to put up.
They will probably reflect that hitherto they
haven’t known this management ask for
money and not make good use of it. The
Bulletin, while it would hate to see this
Sydney concern become a big South Seas
monopoly, and would welcome an Aus-
tralian competitor in its field, would in the
interests of the Commonwealth feel much
easier about our future in the Pacific if the
new co. could find immediate use for ten times
the amount it asks.
How rapid has been the movement since
the war is illustrated by this comparison of
gross profits:—
1914 .. £341,629 1918 ... £571.163
1916 .. 394,514 1919 615,619
1917 .. 441,155 1920 .. 713,167
Six years ago working exes, and deprecia-
tion took £220,5176: for the past year,
£473,545. But besides the gross profits
shown above, large amounts have fallen
direct into an insurance and sundries re-
serve without passing through the P. and L.
account —six years ago £64,042 had been
laid-by in this way, and at the latest balance
the accumulation had reached £357,520. In
the first table the additions to these re-
serves are shown with the profits, which
accounts for the discrepancy between the
figures shown by The Bulletin and those
claimed by the management. The past
year’s results probably benefited from the
sale of the Indarra and the surplus over
book values of the insurances on the lost
Tambo and the auxiliary-schooner Gilbert
Islands. The Malayan, a cargo steamer of
3279 tons, was put on the register during
the year.
A comparison of the balance-sheet figures
over the past 10 years shows how the busi-
ness has gro\^n:—
Liabilities.
1910. 1915. 1919. 1920.
Capital . .£300,000 £1,000,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Reserves .. 479,783 347,484 638,018 807,407
Liabilities 195,435 261,095 754,479 531,417
Properties 155,000 177,000 180,000 191,000
Shipping .. 168,485 258,720 1
Cash and in- f 574,015 533,355
vestments 84,340 187,088 J
Stock .. 180,551 250,808 538,625 583,969
Book debts 245,011 382,624 722,207 677,840
Other assets 141,831 322,339 627,650 902,660
Since 1910 ’ the aggregate balance-sheet
figures have moved from £975,218 to
£2,855,824. Paid capital is over four times
its former girth, but £450,000 of the £950,000
increase represents capitalised reserves. The
past five years of the period have easily
been the more profitable. Between 1910-
’l5 net assets increased from £779,783 to
£1,317,485. Meantime shareholders put up
£350,000 cash and had £322,500 passed back
to them. Since 1915 net assets have moved
to £2,057,407, with the assistance of
£150,000 of cash put up shareholders,
who meantime have had £455,000 in divs.
On those figures, after paying handsome divi-
dends, the co. for the five years to 1915 im-
proved its position by over £187,000, and
for the five years since by not far short
of £590,000. And that is merely the visible
improvement, for no doubt there have been
substantial internal provisions for contin-
gencies.
* * * *
The Australian Provincial Assur-
ance Association, Ltd., doing life and acci-
dent business throughout the Commonwealth
and Maorilnnd. It began in 1912 with a
deficit of £BO6O representing preliminary
exes. The last column in the following
table does not take into account either share
capital (which at Dec. 31, 1919, stood at
£97,846) or liabilities under policies:—
Towards
Re-
Oct.. Income. Claims. Expenses, serves. Deficit.
1913 ..£10,219 £289 £18,213 - £16,343
1914 . . 17,288 866 28,473 28,394
1915 .. 28,615 1,169 29,641 30,689
1916 .. 56,846 4,790 44,088 £7,968 22,621
1917 .. 100,619 10,268 77,771 12,680 10,041
Nominal
Dec., Reserves.
1918 .. 164,925 22,434 121,938 20,653 10,512
Southern Insurance Co.’s
funds transferred .. 5,896 16,408
1919 .. 209,103 33,378 125,378 50,347 66,755
If high speed and enthusiasm counted for
everything some of the staid old offices would
need to go into training to meet the com-
petition of this new one. Note for a start
that the figures for 1918 were for 14 months
as against 12 covered by the latest accounts.
An income of £209,103 for a life office’s
seventh year almost snatches the breath.
Look next at the volume of new life busi-
ness written each year, and also at the
growth of the accident premiums:—
New Life Accident
Assurances. Premiums.
1913 .. .. £251,300 £202
1914 .. .. 325,925 818
1915 . . . . 432,060 3,689
1916 . . . . 609,030 11,747
1917 .. .. 1,268,012 23,290
1918 (14 mos.) .. 1,839,076 33,304
1919 .. .. 1,868,073 43,805
That is an amazing performance; but big
new-business figures are not always what
they seem. When a life office compiles its
table of premium charges, they are designed
to (1) cover expenses; (2) allow for ac-
cumulations to finally discharge the lia-
bility it has undertaken; and (3) provide
a margin for contingencies from which, if
all goes well, the policy-holder may get a
little more than the office contracted to pay
(bonuses), and, in the case of a proprietary
concern, the shareholders may get something
for backing the contract. The A.P.A. in
its early years did not worry about much
else except writing a large volume of new
business, and this pursuit of policy-holders
proved so expensive that between 1912-17
every penny of the £213,587 income got in
and £10,041 besides went in meeting claims
and expenses. An investigation as at Dec.,
1917, showed, however, that, on the actuary’s
estimate, the £76,001 of shareholders’ capital
put up was more than ample to protect the
liability on. policies remaining in force.
Last year, for the first time in the co.’s
career, renewal premiums exceeded new
business premiums. The result was that,
whereas during its first five years all but
£7341 of its aggregate income had been
swallowed by expeases alone, for the past
year £50,347 remained after meeting all
costs and claims. Expenses are still very
heavy, though; last year they ran away
with 60 p.c. of total income. Precisely
what is the cost of writing new business is
not evident. The A.P.A. has made a
feature of combined policies, charging one
premium which gives wider benefits than
usual —its sickness cover, for instance, in-
cludes all diseases, instead of the usual
scheduled troubles. These premiums are
cut up in the office. In the past the whole
of the accident business has been passed
over to a subsidiary concern, which, though
it is under no obligation to publish a balance-
sheet, has always made one available to The
Bulletin, and in the introductory table the
figures of the two cos. are combined. Last
year, of the £43,505 of accident premiums
taken credit for, £16,224 was paid in claims;
anything left over after meeting the esti-
mated cost of handling the accident busi-
ness apparently went to help the life depart-
ment. Probably the new business is cost-
ing a shade over 150 p.c. of the first-year
premiums, and though that is much better
than formerly, it means that the whole of
the first year’s premiums and over half of
the second year’s (and often there isn’t a
second year's) go before the new business
has an opportunity to earn its board-
and-lodging, let alone provide anything for
its old age. Lapses in a young office which
has hustled for business as this one has are
necessarily high. During its first five years
one-third of the policies written failed to
stick. Things are somewhat different now,
and it is able to show a tidy renewal pre-
mium income of £80,655. If the A.P.A. can
hold most of that and a reasonable propor-
tion of the new business it writes, it should,
with ordinary luck, be on the way to suc-
cess. The big job ahead is to carve down
expenses. Some people, particularly the
promoters of a couple of new cos. incubating
in Sydney, are talking loudly of the A.P.A.’s
remarkable record. But they don’t men-
tion a word about the heavy cost which has
been incurred in building up the business.
Two years ago the A.P.A. actuarial investi-
gation showed that policy-holders’ funds were
£17,328 short of the estimated liabilities.
To balance this account an amount of capi-
tal equal to the deficit was transferred: capi-
tal was not written off, the amount being
regarded as temporarily lost and included
in the “establishment account.” Share-
holders have put up altogether £97,846, and
of this no less than £52,022 is represented by
that intangible “establishment” item. So,
after seven years, shareholders have had no
dividend and have seen half their capital
go in creating nothing more tangible than an
organisation.
A year ago this page remarked that the
A.P.A. had gradually become more respect-
able. Sydney underwriters are evidently
of the same opinion, for whereas they for-
merly refused to take the co. in, it is about
to be admitted to the fold. Evidently in anti-
cipation, the A.P.A. has decided to abandon
the. Southern Insurance, the subsidiary with
which all the accident business has been
placed. The funds originally put into this
office, less a small loss incurred on the little
business it did on its own account, have
now been transferred to the parent, and used
to write down the establishment account.
There is no reason to doubt that the
A.P.A. policy-holder is thus far protected by
the assurance fund and shareholders’ capi-
tal. Still The Bulletin would be better
satisfied if actuarial investigations were made
more frequently than quinquenniolly. But
this much can be said for the A.P.A.: it is
about the only young office this paper knows
which keeps a full-time actuary on its
premises. The investments to protect the
policy-holders are a good lot: there are
tangible assets amounting to £235,687; and
liabilities, including a £27,000 mortgage on
premises and outstanding claims, total
£71.086: so that there are net assets of about
£164,600. Of the assets £134,047 is in War
Loan, and the management Appears to have
struck a bargain in the Sydney premises, for
which last year, after considerable negotia-
tions, it paid £36,233.
* * * *
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Co.
(Adelaide) :
Mar., Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1911.. £468 Nil £468 £lO
1912.. 425 Nil 425 435
1913.. 1722 Nil 1722 2,157
1914.. 2435 6 p.c. = £l2OO 1235 3,392
1915.. 1883 6 „ „ 1200 683 4.075
1916.. 2045 6 „ „ 1200 845 4.920
1917.. 2855 8 ~ ~ 1600 1255 6,175
1918.. 3165 8 „ „ 1600 1565 7,740
1919.. 3541 10 „ „ 2000 1541 9,281
1920.. 5059 10 „ „ 2000 3059 12,340
Some cos. are born with silver spoons in
their mouths, too. This one started life with
S. Aus.’s old Elder-Smith crowd to fairy-
godmother it. With this influence it has,
after 10 years, got the care of over 3£
millions of trusts, whereas the local Exec.,
Trustee and Agency Co., after 40 years, is
handling only about 44 millions. Still, the
older concern is controlling almost double
the business it had when the Elder co.
started; which demonstrates that a little
friendly rivalry has done the old concern no
harm and at the same time has lifted a lot of
S. Aus. people out'of the bad habit of leav-
ing their affairs in the hands of the un-
trained and undependable personal trustee.
Besides the two cos. mentioned, another,
Bagot’s—which has Bagot, Shakes and Lewis
influence to push it along—has been in the
field some years, but it does not disclose the
extent of its business, though its profits
indicate that it, too, is holding a substantial
amount of trusts. The very rapid growth
of Elder’s is shown in this comparison, going
back to its first year:—
1911 .. £53,562 | 1918 ..£2,779,039
1915 .. 1,405,146 | 1919 .. 3,217,709
1917 .. 2,460,347 | 1920 .. 3,553,763
How very profitable business has been lately
is shown in the last line of the first table.
Interest from the co.'s own funds and miscel-
laneous receipts were alone almost sufficient
to provide the 10 p.c. div.; commissions gave
£13,208 for the 12 months to March 31 last,
compared with £9020 for the previous year,
and since exes, increased by only about £2OOO,
net earnings showed a 25 p.c. return on
capital. When the co. was established
£lOO,OOO of the half-million nominal capital
was issued, but only 4s. per £1 share has
been called in. Though for the first three
years no distribution of profits to share-
holders was made, they have since had 54
p.c. Besides, £12,340 of reserves has been
accumulated, so with its £20,000 of paid
capital the co. has £32,340 to protect clients
—almost immediately available, too, for all
but £5OO represented by furniture (written
down from £1040) is in Government securi-
ties and cash. Incidentally, £20,000 of S.
Aus. 3| p.c. inscribed stock falls due towards
the end of this year, and may be replaced
by something more profitable. In addition
to the funds in hand there is the further
protect ; on of £BO,OOO of uncalled capital
which would be available if the worst hap-
pened. But a trustee co.’s cash-box is so
closely supervised, and the staff so well
trained to watch every crossing of a t and
dotting of an i in instructions, that share-
holders are not likely to lose sleep oyer
the possibility of uncalled capital being
required to fill any holes. In putting its
shareholders in the way of sweet returns
Elder’s has easily established a record for
Australian trustee cos.
¥ # * #
The proposal to shift control of the note
issue from the Treasury to the Common-
wealth Bank has at least this to be said for
it —the control ought to be shifted some old
where. At last time"of asking the issue was
£56,994,463, and against that there was a
gold reserve of £23,658,819, or £4l 10s. p.c.
If the amount of paper represented notes
actually in circulation and actually in de-
mand the reserve would be nearly £10.000,000
more than there was any reason for, and
would represent a waste of £500,000 a year.
But the issue consists of about £34,000,000
for which there is an actual demand and cir-
culation, against which a resei’ve of, say.
£9,000,000 is ample, plus £23,000,000 of
£lOOO notes which the banks were compelled
to buy and keep out of circulation. If these
were allowed to go into circulation they
would promptly come back to the Treasury
to be cashed, and would blithely mop up the
gold reserve; so they obviously can’t be all
redeemed at once, but they should be with-
drawn by instalments as quickly as possible.
The present situation is that they require
no gold reserve against them while they are
compulsory paper, yet the Government holds
about £14,000,000 against them (the bal-
ance being the natural and sufficient reserve
against notes in circulation), and it makes
no use of that money. So on one hand
there is £23,000,000 of £lOOO notes locked
up and earning nothing, and on the other
hand there is £14,000,000 of gold locked up
and earning nothing. If £10,000,000 of the
ornamental or fancy £lOOO notes were re-
deemed at once that money would start earn-
ing at least 5 p.c. immediately (£500,000 a
year), and there would be still nearly
£14.000.000 of gold as a reserve against the
£34,000.000 of paper which really requires
protection—rather over 41 per cent. Appa-
rently a big gold reserve is kept against the
compulsory note issue to avoid drawing atten-
tion to the fact that a big section of the note
issue is compulsory—a burying of both ends
of the ostrich in the sand.
* # * #
A little Melbourne syndicate, which in-
cludes ancient mariner Senator Guthrie and
one or two other legislators, has taken a
lease from the British Government of those
ocean specks, the Ashmore shoals, out be-
tween the north-west corner of Australia
and Timor. They are to pay a royalty of
6s. a ton on the guano that they get from
the islands, and as the stuff is now worth
well over £2O a ton there should be a decent
margin of profit. There is talk of millions
in the thing, hut it has yet to be seen how
big the deposits are.
* * * *
Launceston is talking cement, a £lOO,OOO
co. proposing, if prospects justify, to handle
Flowery Gully limestone, adjacent to
Beaconsfield, in the Tamar Valley. The late


Metropolitan-Vickers Electrical Co., Etd.
Everything Electrical
whether for the production, distribution or application of electricity for
power and lighting purposes is manufactured by The Metropolitan-Vickers
Electrical Co.. Ltd. They offer the advantage of undivided responsibility
for power and lighting equipments.
Their productions include: Steam Turbines, Turbo-Generators, Blowers and
Compressors, Condensers. AC and DC Generators and Motors, Electric-
Tramway and Railway Equipments, Transformers and Converters. Switch
and Control Gear, Meters and Instruments, Lamps, Fans and all Electrical
Accessories.
Australian Offices—
-84 William Street, Melbourne. 12 Martin Place, Sydney.
lCKfifS
c<x irfe
CLECTRJCAL
Works :—Trafford Park, Manchester, England.
The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within the reach
of every motorist. The G.E. Mercury Arc Battery
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere trifle compared with the
convenience and economy of home charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efficiency of a batterv, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Svdnev; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.—Advt
* * « *
All buyers of Copper Wires, Copper Cables, Copper
Busbars, Copper Rods, etc., are notified that, as
agents for Metal Manufactures, Ltd., Port Kembla,
N.S.W., we are now in a position to fill all orders
for same promptly. Send to-day for particulars,
prices, etc., to Win. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Adyt. [2
The latest copper-smelting plant to be erected in
Australia is that of the Mount Cuthbert, Company
in North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power-
plant with boilers, generating sets and blowers,
blast furnace, copper converters and converter re-
fining plant, blister gathering and cleaning shed,
also steel bins for ore und coke. Wherever possible
the plant is electrically driven. The whole of the
plant was supplied by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne, who have made numerous smelting
plants working in Australia at present.—Advt. [2
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.—Extract from letter
received from Borough Echuca Water Trust dated
2nd April, 1919: “Dear Sir, —In answer to yours of
the 27th ult., I beg to inform you that the wood
pipes supplied to this Trust from your firm in the
years 1913-15 have given every satisfaction Up to the
present. (Sgd.) Edwin R. Riley, Secretary.” Send for
our Illustrated Catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Company, Ltd. (Head Office), Burns Bay Road, Lane
Cove, N.S.W. Contractors to all State Govern-
ments.— Advt.
* * * *
Patents.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
** \ »
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Chaßis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. —Advt.
♦ * „ ,
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work; contractors advised; railway work.
90 Queen-street, Melbourne.—Advt.
* * * *
The manufacture of ‘Skandla” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both maiiue and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
Ihe 1 ederal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
Tasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson k Robertson, Loftus Street, Sydney.—
Advt.
* * * •
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
* • • *
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbou me. ’ ’ — Advt.
* * • •
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s k Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B. Selby k Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.—Advt.
AINSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office i n Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in
Australia.
Losses from Fire, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation, Motor
Plate-Glass Breakage. Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock. Crops,
Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY. J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
geologist Twelvetrees reported on this de-
posit very favorably. Over a million tons
of limestone are in sight, averaging 90 p.c.
calcium carbonate, and free from vital
deleterious elements. A seven-mile railway
from Beauty Point to the works site is neces-
sary, but the going will be easy.
* * * *
“York Street”: Quite a flutter was caused
among Sydney fluff merchants the other day
by the announcement that D. and W. Mur-
ray, the big softgoods house, better known in
the Southern States than in N. S. Wales,
was amalgamating with Henry Bull and
('o.. Ltd. Murray’s is the larger concern,
and Bull’s identity is to disappear. Appa-
rently the Henry Bull business is being
acquired for about £350,000, and at this
figure York-street regards it as a bargain,
taking into consideration the blanket and
flannel mill at Liverpool, the big York-
street warehouse and the factory in Kent-
street, erected in the days of cheap build-
ing and never written up, and, of course,
the trading connection. Other York-
streeters who would haye jumped at the
chance to acquire the old business reckon
that Murray’s must have found the Henry
Bull directors in a particularly affable
mood.
* * * *
“Morobe” asks if Australians are barred :
It Is time the Federal Government declared its
attitude towards intending investors in the late Ger-
man possessions in the Pacific. Repeated applications
have been made by persons and cos. for concessions
covering oil and mineral rights, but to date no
satisfaction or encouragement has been given by the
Government. Australians with splendid financial
backing lately approached the Prime Minister with
the object of obtaining a concession over oil and
mineral rights in the Possessions. They were flatly
turned down, and informed that absolutely no con-
cessions or rights of any nature whatsoever would be
granted to any firm or person until after the man-
date had been handed over to the Commonwealth.
This was in writing. Within one week of the receipt
of this reply came the Prime Minister’s announcement
that a concession had been granted to the British
Persian Oil Co. to exploit the oil resources of New
Guinea, and that he would ask the House for £60,000
as a subsidy to assist the co. in its preliminary work.
This injustice to the Australian co. was perpetrated
despite the fact that the first five clauses in tho
guarantee offered by the co. were as follows:
1. All shareholders and all capital employed would
be entirely Australian.
2. No subsidy would be asked for, as practically
unlimited capital was available.
3. A royalty, the amount to be mutually agreed
upon, would be paid on all oil and minerals won.
4. The British and Australian Governments to have
priority in the purchase of oil.
6. None but returned soldiers would be employed
by the co. in its operations.
After footing the bill for a very costly military
occupation, Australian capital and industry are surely
entitled to any pecuniary benefits that are connected
with concessions.
* * * *
Another Australian who has done big
things in metallurgy is to be lost to the Com-
monw’ealth. Philip Plummer, plant super-
intendent at the Port Pirie smelters, has
been appointed smelting superintendent of
the big Burma Corporation.
“Certainly the gold values are going down,
and whilst the multiplicity of reefs entails
considerable prospecting work, it at the
same time increases the prospects of obtain-
ing bonanzas.” Thus Mines Department
geologist Harper after an examination of
the old Hill End field (1N.8.W.) 18 months
ago. He recommended development work
“to intersect as many veins as possible in
the neighborhood of the frequent cross-
courses or faults.” Amalgamated Hill End
has been working the Mica and Star of
Peace veins under a two years’ tribute from
the Marshall Co., and, though it has pulled
out some good stone, so far as anything big
is concerned it has until last week met no-
thing but disappointment, the veins taper-
ing to a thread at times. At last, almost
at the death-knock—the tribute expires on
August 11 —something very rich has come
in. A first sample from a reef in the cross-
course below the old Fischer and Beard
shaft went 370ijoz. to the ton. Down a
further 15ft., where the reef has widened
to Bin., samples have given 6800 z., and 7090 z.
per ton. The reef is dipping and appears
to be widening, but the Board, though de-
claring it is the “most important and pro-
mising find ever made in the co.’s history,”
“deprecates any exaggerated view of the
discovery.” As the tribute has only three
months to run, there won’t be any go-slow
about the Amalgamated during the next few
weeks.
* * * *
Great Cobar has once again made applica-
tion for suspension of labor conditions on
its Cobar Gold and Chesney leases. Great
Cobar and Cobar Gold have large bodies of
silicious ores which Hogan Taylor and ex-
perts admitted could he successfully treated
by concentration and flotation, and it’s about
time something more was done than apply-
ing for one suspension after another. Cobar
townspeople are entitled to some considera-
tion, as many a life-time’s savings have been
put into homes on the boom reports of
previous managements, and at present many
of these homes are being sacrificed for
removal purposes on account of the con-
tinued silence of the management.
» * * *
Occidental., Cobar, has been reconstructed
and now blossoms forth as the Occidental
Consolidated. A staff has commenced to
arrive on the mine. The plant is to be re-
modelled and new machinery installed where
necessary. Unwatering is to proceed almost
immediately, the underground workings put
in order, the shaft sunk and all made ready
to realise the expectations of the prospectus.
It will be a triumph if these expectations are
fully realised ; for stores are expensive and
labor wants a considerable advance on
present rates. The principal disturbing
factor is the possibility of the ore becoming
refractory; and to meet this a healthy re-
serve fund should be established.
* * * *
The Brown Lode, Cobar, one of Great
Cobar’s abandoned Peak leases, is creating
a little local excitement, a recent parcel of
47 tons from the 100 ft. level, treated at
Kembla, having given sSloz. silver and loz.
gold per ton for firsts, the seconds averaging
llooz. silver and Sdwt. gold. A dividend of
fl per share has been declared on the 1000
fl shares. W. H. Chappie, formerly mana-
ger of Great Cobar’s Peak properties, is the
man behind the gun. The Conqueror, the
only lease held at present by Great Cobar at
the Peak, is being worked by tributors, and
has also caused a stir, a parcel of 39 tons
bringing in £l3OO. These returns, combined
with favorable reports from the Blue Lode,
have been responsible for new claims being
pegged.
# * # *
About a month after its mine-fire started,
the management of the (J.S.A., Cobar, be-
came inquisitive and decided to unseal and
discover what was happening. On investi-
gating it declared that the fire had burnt
itself' out, and that the damage had been
confined to No. 2 level. On Monday last,
however, it was found that No. 3 level was
affected ; and the management will probably
not be inquisitive again for at least six
months.
* # * #
Y-Water, Emmaville (N.S.W.), is getting
its finances trimmed, but the job is slow.
Assets include tin on hand, etc., £14,440,
stores £87)00 and sundry debtors £2461 —alto-
gether £25,674 of more or less liquid assets
against liabilities of £29,976, of which £12,350
is owing to the bank. The dredge has
worked out of the narrow channel in which
it has been toiling for a year, and can now
operate on a scale which should reduce costs.
The mine record to date is 27104 tons oxide
won from over 54 million c. yds., or an average
of 1.0981 b. per yd. Averages have suffered
during recent years because of the low-grade
stuff handled. The six months to Jan. 31
last gave a net profit of £3741 with tin just
on the £3OO mark. Very evidently changes
for the better were badly needed to allow the
co. to stand up to a blow from the metal
market.
* * * ♦
Cap’n Miles refuses to be suppressed on
the subject of Badak. Director Scarborough,
who is in Malaya, asserts by cable that the
Jeneri Valley was not prospected in 1905 or
1906, as alleged by Miles, and also declares
that Miles, junior, wanted to negotiate for
the property. Miles’s counter is that he
belonged to the syndicate that did the pros-
pecting, and that son Miles emphatically
denies that he ever wanted to buy Badak.
Bendigo is elated over Scarborough’s report,
which infers that the title is good and that
the co. has secured the right to turn the
Jeneri River, and it has got the market
on the feed again. Presently something may
be heard from Scarborough as to where Bux
and Jungle stand with respect to their con-
cessions. The best-off of the Badak pups,
however, appears to be the Options, which
took shelter Ronpibon way when trouble
was sighted. There it has under offer a
block of over 1000 acres in which 30 scout
bores have gone not quite 141 b. tin oxide.
* * * *
To date £133,277 has been dropped into
Langi-Logan South, Ararat (Vic.), and this
shows where most of it has gone: Wages,
£64,087; firewood, £21,636; timber, £7700;
contracts and stores, £13,748; vendors,
£5000; plant, £8073. When the co. set out
to tap the gutter it had £6700 cash to play
with, but things have shaped so badly that,
though it has called up £97,043, it has won
only £26,528 of gold. The current year, it
was claimed, would see a turning point, but
miners have not flocked into the gutter even
at the higher rates offered. So to get gold
worth £4075 for the past six months share-
holders had to part with £4950. Develop-
ment work was stopped in the north end of
the lead in order to get three parties of men
into wash and save calls. What they have
proved is not cheerful reading, for off Nos.
6,7, 9 and 10 rises 1600 fathoms averaged
only 14Jdwt., which is far short of being
payable. The real trouble is that the gutter
in the north end is very patchy and full of
big holes out of which the gold has been
swept. With the north end of the mine
counted out, Langi South’s only chance is
down the lend. There ground prospects
lioz. —but then the north end, it was de-
clared, would go over the oz.
* * * *
The Commissioners who are going to
turn the Morwell brown-coal beds into elec-
tricity for Victorian use, and have been
told that the State stands behind the scheme
to the extent of £3,000,000, have chosen
John Bridge as their mine manager, at a
salary of £l2OO a year. They have a good
man for the money. Bridge, a Sydney
graduate, has been a successful mine man-
ager for the Zinc Corporation at its South
Blocks and other properties for the past
seven years, and has assisted G. C. Klug
(general manager for Bewick-Moreing) in
most of his big examinations during that
period.
* • * «
Edna May is preparing to say its fare-
wells. The other day a liquidation meeting
was called, but shareholders were appa-
rently not interested, so the reading of the
iirst portion of the burial-service has been
postponed for six weeks. Realisation of
assets has so far brought in £13,000, and
a further £lO,OOO is expected. There is
a wide circle of option-vendors trying to win
the attentions of Edna May, but Fred Tricks
won’t entertain any venture “unless he is
certain it will be a success.”
Border Oil Co. is being floated in Adelaide
on faith and a 3cwt. slab of the bitumen
washed up on the south-east beaches, near
where the South Australian Oil Well Co. has
been boring. Dr. Basedow supplies the faith.
His diagnosis is that the freshness of the
bitumen means that it has not travelled very
far. Supplementary evidence is said to be
the emission of marsh-gas from blowholes on
the shore. Basedow is so cocksure that he
testifies in big print that “there is no doubt
that oil exists in the locality in which the
asphaltum was discovered, but prospecting is
made difficult on account of so much of the
underlying sedimentary formation being
covered by more or less recent deposits.” On
the strength of this the public is asked to
put up £lO,OOO cash and give a wad in paid-
ups to H. C. Tucker and Hugh Hudson for
their land rights. Then down will go three
bores to determine what the underlying beds
and anticlinal folds are made of and whether
deep-boring for oil should be attempted.
* * * *
Mining on the Skipper’s goldfield (MX.)
is now almost dead ; a few alluvial diggers
are all that remain of the thousand or so
tough men who once breasted the dangers
of the Shotover River. No river in the world
was richer; yet few of the valiant diggers
ever retired to the easy life, and many lie
in the solitude of the little hillside ceme-
tery. During the boom days mining of one
sort and another Was in progress for 50
miles along the banks and benches of the
river, and fearsome are the stories told of
how the torrent rose swiftly in the night,
sweeping men and equipment away. The
Achilles, once the pride of Otago, has been
abandoned many years. Beautiful gold-
quartz specimens were obtainable there. The
ore averaged an ounce recovery, but operat-
ing costs beat the co. Shotover Consolidated
(whex - e two cos. went uuder driving a long
crosscut to tap the supposedly-rich shoot
of ore abandoned by a former co.), the Levia-
than, British-American, White Crystal,
Eureka and such famous alluvial mines as
the Skipper’s (which returned over one ton
of gold), Skipper’s Creek, Davies, Maori
Point, Monk’s Terrace, Sue Hoy and many
others all slumber in the shadow of Mt.
Aurum. Elliston recovered 300 oz. in two
hours from a small bar in the Maori Point.
* # * »
Operations have been resumed for the
umteenth time at Macetown (M.L.) on the
Premier and other lodes, which are mostly
tied up by English operators. Whether the
resumption is genuine, or is merely in com-
pliance with the leasehold law, is not known,
but the deposits deserve better treatment,
and under reasonable management have a
good chance of becoming profitable gold
producers.
* * * *
Mt Lindsay (Tas.) is milling gossan ore
from the open-cut over the No. 1 level, where
a large body of fair grade has been exposed.
Manager Blaney expects to make good profit
in spite of heavy transportation costs and
labor shortage. The co. recently increased
its calling power, and is undertaking exten-
sive development.
* # * *
The drought having broken, sluicing has
been resumed at Arba Tin (Tas.). Little
payable alluvium remains, so prospecting on
the Gladstone option is being pushed to
determine the grade of that area.
* * * *
From a Queensland prospector:—
In a recent Bulletin a minings engineer gave his
views on the declining mineral production of N. S.
Wales. The same observations apply to Queens-
land. The genuine prospector is well up against
it. For prospecting over the great distances of
this mostly uninhabited part of Australia, a man must
have at least 12 horses, with packsaddles and all
gear complete; and nowadays a packsaddle costs
more then a horse. For al2 months’ trip he must
hare £lOO worth of tucker and tools, firearms, etc.
Also he must have at least one mate similarly
equipped. There are very few men knocking about
to-day who can afford this equipment, and far fewer
who would willingly risk it on a prospecting trip
which may bring in nothing.
The Mines Department is generally not over-keen
on giving assistance. 1 have just returned from a
long trip in the North, and in this case have nothing
to complain of as regards treatment. My mates and
I found the horses, saddlery, etc., the Mines Depart-
ment the tucker and tools. After various wanderings,
we climbed a great, scrub-clad range, just accessible
to the horses, and in the dense scrub located a gold-
bearing creek. We put in 12 months altogether.
In nine days we got 16oz. coarse gold. We traced
the gold to a well-defined river-bed buried in the
range. But we were beaten by the ever-increasing
overburden, the dense timber, every inch of the
ground being carpeted with (a mat of leaves and
intertwined roots, the difficulty of getting supplies
up the range, and, finally, the wet season coming on,
giving us malaria. The place itself is very healthy,
but we had contracted malaria previously in Pales-
tine.
We discovered another river-bed, exposed 9ft. of
wash, showing gold, about three miles further up
the creek. This, most likely, is a continuation of
the same river bed. But everything is a riddle—the
dense scrub secs to that. Now, in all probability,
there is a good gold-field buried there, and it seems
to me a shame the place should be found and yet not
found. In the interests of the State generally, would
not the expenditure of further Government money
be worth while?
(Continued on page 22.)


BACKSHEE, BOSS!
“The Country party in the Federal Parliament, reinforced by W. G. Higgs, the Independent, has been recently very useful in saving the Government from defeat.” —News item.
HUGHES: “For Gorsake spare a coin to get me another night’s lodgin’!”


1
Warrigal—the Underwear
that helped build an Australian
lndustry.
When Australian-made underwear first came on the market men
bought it hesitantly. To-day they KNOW it, and seek it. It has
been proven by actual wear. Peapes’ “Warrigal” underwear has
played a prominent part in establishing the confidence which only
QUALITY can create. If you want good underwear —and good
value —order Peapes’ “Warrigal” brand. “Wholly Australian.”
PURE WOOL UNDERSHIRTS —Medium Weight.
34. 36. 38. 40. 42. 44.
16/- 17/- 18/- 19/- 20/- 21/-
Underpants to match at same prices.
Shirts with long sleeves 1/- extra.
Peapes’ pay postage. Please state chest and waist measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
\Aeltonian
IT \ HIGH-CLASS
ISPEfIALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St, Melbourne.
ǽ
E. DROWN © SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL • OVER • THE • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America cr the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
' Spare Corp”: The two shillings at which
the A.I.F. used to assess the razors issued
to the men was a wild overvaluation. At
one parade the inspecting officer, stopping-
before a rather unkempt Digger, roared:
“Why don’t you shave?” “I had a shave
this morning,” protested Dig. “What’s the
matter with your razor?” demanded the
1.0. —“you must have used your penknife!”
“No, sir,” said Dig. confidentially; “I’ve
lost my penknife, so I had to use my issue
razor.”
TOO MODEST TO SHOW HERSELF.
“Pa, why is truth always spoken of as
naked?”
“I don't know, my hoy. But it may explain
why she's so seldom seen in public
life.”
Tom Poole, the new Judge in South Aus.,
has “come a Cadorna” in his first Criminal
Sessions. A prisoner at the Stockade Gaol
wandered away, and on being recaptured
pleaded that he had to do it because his wife
had gone off with another man. The Judge
said this prison-breaking has to be stopped,
because “in this State the opportunities for
prisoners to escape are exceptionally great,”
and he handed out two years’ hard labor,
the first six months in irons! In front of
an ill-kept butcher’s shop the opportunities
to slip are exceptionally great; so if ever
his Honor, walking there, breaks his leg,
this paper will exonerate the butcher. The
practice of slipping must be put down, not
by making the butcher clean up the pave-
ment, but by giving his Honor, say, six
months in irons.
“Henry Clay”: He was a Brigadier-Gen-
eral and had come, to do the preliminary
inspection prior to the arrival of the corps
commander. The first unit he came to was
the Signal Squadron—very rough indeed,
but none so rough as one dingbat who was
reputed to have “bats in the belfry.”
The Brig, was struck by the gen-
eral air of untidiness of this ding-
bat, and proceeded to say so. “And
where are your good-conduct chevrons? How
long have you been in the army?” “Three
years, sir,” said the dingbat; “but I’ve
never been inspected before by a general
with no decorations!”
* * * *
“St. Dunstan’s”: My mother and father
have a place near the Inlet, which is be-
coming a popular spot with foot-tourists
and holiday-makers. When at home I rather
like to make my way down to the rocks on
a warm morning and sit there feeling the
sun and hearing the sea. I had taken up
my perch on a favorite boulder one day in
January, and was absorbing the warmth, a
prey to rather mournful reflections, when
there came a rush of bare
feet on the wet sand, a
babble of heated remarks,
and I was seized all over
and before I could enter a
convincing defence was run
into the water and ducked
so often and at such length
that the fear of homicidal
intention on the part of my
assailants entered my soul.
Presently, however, they left
me standing, and after three
or four false starts I began
to wade ashore. Then I
heard a voice say: “My God,
he’s a blind soldier J” The
irony of it —some 15 girls in
the nearly-altogether li a d
half-drowned me for camp-
ing in the vicinity of their
duds! I never felt nay aunetion so keenly.
“Haka”: The usual tribe was commanded
to Wellington the other day to attend an
investiture at which the Governor-General
presented a consignment of 0.8.E.’5. While
these things were being pinned on at Gov-
ernment House the clerks in the Defence
Department were busy wrapping up Gal-
lipoli Stars and posting them to the Anzacs
without as much as a covering letter! Per-
sonally I did what I could. My cobber
and I got ours together. I commanded Pri-
vate Sandy Ferguson to stand to attention.
Bringing his heels together with a click, and
raising his right hand to one inch above
the right eye, and dropping it smartly to his
side, he looked properly wooden. I then
thanked him for what he had done for me,
handed him his Star, and said, “Have a
fag!” He did the same for me, but, as I
had hoped, made it a drink.
* * * *
“Hermish”: He was a one-armed Digger,
still wearing uniform, and his breast was
bright with ribbons. He shuffled into the
restaurant and sat down at the table oppo-
site me. Seated at the same table was a
big, red faced, middle-aged civvv. He glanced
several times at the one-armed Digger as if
wishing to open up a conversation; but the
Digger was engrossed in his paper. After a
few minutes the civvy could stand it no
longer, so he leaned over, and with a sym-
pathetic expression on his face remarked : “I
see, old man, you’ve lost an arm!” The
Digger looked up in surprise, picked up his
empty sleeve, and gasped : “Gorstruth ! So
I have!”
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: Regarding the quasi-matri-
monial affairs of Diggers (B. 6/5/’2O), the
most unfortunate Aussie known to G.H.Q.
was one who wrote to W. M. Hughes a
frenzied letter to the effect that if he wasn’t
married within two weeks it would be an
everlasting disgrace to the A.I.F. His record
showed that he had already secured marriage
leave from France on the ground of urgent
necessity, but a few weeks later had been
grabbed by M.P.’s, over-leave and stony-
broke, and still unmarried. He made a
broken-hearted explanation to the effect that
shortly after his arrival in England he had
been “took down” for his money, and had
been too ashamed to face his sweetheart. This
carried conviction, and he was given act-of-
grace leave and pay and sent away to really
do it. This time when the Jacks returned
him he explained that he hadn’t had enough
money to get married properly, and he had
overstayed leave because he was waiting in
London for money for which he had wired
to Australia. It was at this stage that he
appealed to Hughes, admitting his transgres-
sions, but pleading for a third chance to “act
square.” General McCay sent for him, and
being satisfied by inquiries that a girl of
respectable parentage urgently required the
marriage-lines, handed the Digger £5 from
his special fund, a lecture and three days’
leave. He really did get married after a
little more trouble; but he wrote to W.
Hughes once more, declaring that it was cruel
and tyrannous to rob a man of his honey-
moon.
“75”: Victoria has an Anti-Gambling Act
which applies to pretty well everything ex-
cept the administration of justice. A shire
inspector was the other day found guilty of
embezzlement and his counsel put up the
THE SPOILS OF VICTORY.
“The Prince and his companions descended to
Woodville, where the Prince made a speech in reply
to an address. A souvenir-hunter put one of his
hands through an open window of the royal car
and secured a small vase containing toothpicks. The
vase dropped on the platform and smashed. The
crowd scrambled for the toothpicks.”
—Breathless cable from Maoriland.
LITTLE FLORRIE: “And what’s that, Aunt
Ellie?”
AUNT ELLIE: “That is our Royal Tooth-
pick, dear. Your father fought for it at
Woodville.”
usual plea for leniency. Judge Wasley re-
marked that in a similar case a few months
back he had passed a sentence of three
months, reckoning that the degradation of
a conviction was in itself a severe punish-
ment to a man who was not of the criminal
class ; but somebody considered that he had
been too lenient, so the prisoner was put up
on another charge, whereupon the Supreme
Court handed him six months. “I must re-
gard the Supreme Court precedent,” an-
nounced Wasley, and then, with apparent
regret, remarked that the sentence would be
six months. If the wrongdoer had had the
luck to be found out before the precious pre-
cedent was created he would, presumably,
HIS HALF-DAY.
“A National Clerical Union has been started for
the purpose of securing a minimum wage and other
benefits for the clergy.”— Cable.
“ B-but you are not leaving us —the ceremony
is only half-finished!”
“Sorry. But it’s one o'clock and Wednesday.
Drop in again to-morrow.”
have been better off by three months. Yet
if some learned horsehair likes to go back
far enough he will discover precedents which
may compel him to award 100 lashes and de-
portation for life to some miscreant who has
.stolen a pair of bpots.
A proud man was Kilburn, organiser of
the Operative Bricklayers’ Union, when he
announced last week that the Baby-killing
Policy isn’t off. The bricklayers are still to
loaf manfully on Saturdays so as to further
diminish the miserable supply of houses, that
their fellow-workmen’s children may lead an
unwholesome life in overcrowded hovels. In-
cidentally, a rumor is not in circulation that
any Government proposes to prohibit the
erection of picture-palaces and other non-
essentials so as to concentrate such labor as
there is on house-building. Yet if the brick
scarcity grows worse it may become a ques-
tion of pulling down places of the sort for
the sake of the materials and to give the
unemployed a job.
» * * *
“Zanthus” : Why this talk about millions be-
ing needed to build a Federal capital at Can-
berra? The housing problem is already more
than half solved, and if the weather keeps fine
the Parliament might be moved there to-
morrow. A bit before the war ended the Com-
monwealth Works Department ran up on the
banks of the Molonglo an internment camp
for 3000 Huns of various sizes who were to
come from India, Singapore and further
north. They never turned up, but the
accommodation is there waiting. It would
house Federal members with their atten-
dants and hangers-on and also the head-
quarters staffs of the departments and leave
a few cubicles for pressmen and distinguished
visitors. Electric light, water supplies,
sewerage and everything like that is fixed
up. The only thing lacking is a place for
Parliament to meet in. But on fine days it
could assemble in the open, as our Anglo-
Saxon ancestors did, and on wet days there
would be room in the electric-light station,
if the electric light wouldn’t mind.
* * * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant” finds an older:
The oldest stone arch in Australia is the bridge
over a gully on the road up Lapstone Hill, it
was designed by David Lennox, a Scotch immigrant,
and executed under his supervision in 1832-3. When
asked to give it a name, Governor Bourke ignored
the time-honored custom of naming anything and
everything after some English person or place, and
said that the bridge should carry the builder’s name
as long as the arch lasted. Hence on the up-stream
keystone we read “a.d. 1833” and on the other
David Lennox, ’ with the year in Roman numerals.
Sir Thomas Mitchell, the then Surveyor-General,
in a lecture at Sydney School of Arts, gave the
story of his discovery of this David Lennox. “In
building bridges for the infant colony there were,”
he said, “great difficulties until I accidentally lighted
upon a mechanic who was then employed on day
wages cutting the coping-stone of the dwarf wall
in front of the Council Chambers in Macquarie-
street. I allude to Mr. David Lennox, who left
his stone wall at my request, and with his sleeves
still tucked up came with me to my office and
undertook to plan the stone bridges we required.
Thus originated all the bridges this colony possesses
at all worthy of the name.” Lennox also built the
Lennox Bridge at Parramatta; the Lansdowne Bridge
over the Prospect Creek, on the N.S.W. Southern-
road ; and Princes Bridge, Melbourne. His last
official appointment was in Victoria. On retiring
he returned to Sydney and died at Parramatta. He
is buried in St. John’s Cemetery, but I have not
been able to find his name on any gravestone.
* * * *
The word of the Watch-house Keeper:—
We had been worried day and night by a little
old chap in the suburb here who had lost a lawn-
mower. It appears that he had had a casual, peri-
patetic gardener in,
doing a couple of days’
work, and the fellow
on leaving had got
away with the tool.
The owner was didder-
ing about it, and called
in on an average three
times a day to see if
we had captured the
culprit, and so as not
to be absent from the
hanging in case we had.
Yesterday the loser
came chasing in, wild
with excitement. He
held a scrap of paper
in his hand. “Here he
is!” he cried. “Here’s
the villain who stole
my lawn-mower. That’s
the scam p—t h a t’s
him!” and he thrust into my hand a newspaper
print of a photograph of Billy Hughes!
* * * *
“Crabtree”: There was often more thrill
about the hop-overs that didn’t come off than
about those that did. Invariably we were
bubbling with excitement, and the stunts
themselves became prosaic things by com-
parison—so prosaic, in fact, that one of
my most distinct, impressions of an occasion
when we were suffocating in the dust, and
trying to avoid the hard pieces, was of
“Bluey” Johnson taking risks in order to sal-
vage a mess-tin from a cobber who had been
knocked. “Lucky for me there’s a casualty,”
he remarked, “or I’d be without a dixie.
Wonder when they’ll get the rations uo?”
METEOROLOGICAL FORECAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Winter knocked at ray door,
Grey of beard and of eye;
And the cold crept over the floor
With a draughty sigh.
Handkerchiefs out on the line,
Nine in a tossing row,
Hearing the old man whine,
Giggled in whispers low.
Spring had a kirtle of green,
Summer a mantle of red ;
And Autumn went like a queen
With a purple scarf on her head.
These stcpt in at the door
And these went out by the gate ;
And Winter came with his store—
Three bags of the cold t hate.
Handkerchiefs, nine in a row,
Tossed in the teeth of the breeze,
Whispered and muttered low,
Hearing the old man sneeze.
Out on you, Winter grey I
Pack and be off from my gate 1
The sun-dog is over the way,
Though he lies in his kennel late.
I twisted the key in the door.
He moaned as I turned my back ;
And the cold crept over the floor
And climbed through the chimney black.
Handkerchiefs out on the line,
Whipped by the wind that blew,
Hearing the old man whine,
Laughed and thought of the ’flu 1
x.s.vv.
MARY McC.


As a Celebrated Man
once said:
“Inspiration does not come easily to a man who has a cold
in his head.” There is no need to sniffle or snuffle and be
apologetic about it. Take
%Wmgfais
F IRISH MOSS
For Your COUGH or COLD.
Your head will soon clear, the phlegm will disappear, and
inflamed tissues will promptly be healed.
Bonnington’s is good in all cases of Cold, Coughing, Influenza,
Asthma, Bronchitis and similar affections.
Ask for it by name. Sold everywhere, 1/6 and 2/6.
CAftP
IRISH " MOSS i
COKI WWMWBTOP
s^asSSglalf
ESS/
3PE
THE MORNING DRINK FOR GOOD HEALTH.
Sal Hepatica brings a rosy glow to cheeks by
keeping you well. Stomach and liver
troubles, indigestion and headache fly before
a glass of bubbling Sal Hepatica. Highly
recommended by doctors. It’s pleasant to
tak'\ Try it first thing in the morning.
Price, 2/- and 4:/*, all Chemists,
or post free from
BRISTOL-MYERS CO.,
49 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
[L233
MEBATICA
( ~Pt/e<zscz2if &>
1
aits
H
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia.
Engagement.
The Engagement is. announced of Miss Rose
Kittle, third youngest daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. T. J. Kittle, Maude Street, Sheppar-
ton, to Mr. Francis George, Manager Com-
mercial Bank, Middle Brighton, late
A.1.F., second son of the late Mr. and
Mrs. Samuel George, Ascot Vale.
“W.F.W.” :Re erratic bullet-routes. One of
my first battle-experiences was encountering
three men who had been shot in the same
place—the face, between check and nostril.
I’he first was stone-dead, the bullet having
gone straight through, taking the lower part
of the back of the skull with it. The next
had a mere flesh wound in the cheek, the mis-
sile coming out an inch or so from its en-
trance. In No. 3 the metal had passed down-
wards through the upper jaw, taking some
teetli with it. then through the tongue and
neck until deflected by the collar-bone, along
which it had skidded, making its exit at the
point of the shoulder. This chap recovered.
I myself had a mauser enter my head at
the right temple and emerge immediately in
front of the left ear without doing me any
permanent injury. What course it took I
don’t know, and the M.O.’s are not agreed
about it either. But another bullet-wound
received the same day, and apparently far
less serious, has made a permanent invalid
of me.
* * * #
Wanganui, where John Ballance came
from, and where many hard things were
done to the pakeha, has been waiting for
years to really assert its loyalty. The chance
came with the dinner given to the Prince
of Wales. When an inventory was produced
of the things that had been at the royal
table 216 spoons, four silver vases and
120yds. of ribbon were found to be among
the missing. They had been taken as souve-
nirs. Wanganui holds up its head now with
the best. »
THERE NEVER WAS A WOMAN WHO
HADN’T.
SURPRISED AND SHOCKED HUSBAND: “ You'll
catch cold. You’ve got nothing on!"
WIFE: “Oh, Eve heaps underneath!"
The N. S. Wales Labor Ministers profess
to be horrified at the “discoveries” they are
making about the use of State motor-cars
by members of the late Cabinet. It is good
to find this high regard for morals and the
public purse. For a few years past there
have been no Labor Ministers, but there
have been Labor men in various public
offices. Just to prove that these men have
all along refused to do what Nationalist
Ministers have done, the Government will no
doubt now inquire and report upon the use
of cars by. the Labor men connected with
these public bodies. Or, seeing that they'
have dealt with what National Ministers
did, perhaps they will hand the job over to
ex-Treasurer Fitzpatrick. For a start he
might inquire whether and under what cir-
cumstances a car was purchased for the
Taronga Park Trust, and who, if anyone,
has habitually used it,
* * * *
“U.P.”: The barmaids of Perth find that
they can’t get along on £3 14s. a week, and
want much more. Bung has offered to com-
promise at a further 10s., making the wages
four guineas a week. A lady teacher in
the W.A. State schools may perhaps in seven
years attain the 81. certificate. She then
receives £lBO a year, and the best she can
look forward to is £205 annually. A proba-
tioner nurse toils hard for four years for as
little as 4s. 6d. a week and keep: then with
luck she may average 30s. a week and keep.
There seems to be more money about beer
WHAT COULD THE POOR MAN SAY?
"I'm afraid, my dear, I can get only one
ticket for the big reception."
"Well, Tom, I put it to you as a loyal sub-
ject—who would the Prince rather look
at, you or me?”
than is good for the Trade if it wants to*be
left alone. The other day, while the Com-
monwealth was looking for a highly-skilled
assistant-manager for its woollen mills at
under £5OO a year, a Sydney brewing co.
was offering £l5OO for an assistant-manager,
who wasn’t required to know anything at all
about brewing. Why is there all this money
about beer? It can’t be because of
superior skill or knowledge required. Any-
how, that there should be a business which
can pay a practically untrained woman 50
per cent, more than we pay highly-trained
nurses and teachers is a reflection either on
the business which pays that untrained
woman or on the community which pays the
teachers and the nurses.
* * * *
“Smike”: Canon Hughes, of St. Peter’s,
East Melbourne, is too contented and unam-
bitious to accept the proffered mitre from
Rockhampton. His indifference to a loftier
place in the Church is popularly alleged to
be due to a considerable private income, but
I put it down to honest humility and a
dislike to move into a new environment at
nearly 60 years of age. He has always been
popular at St. Pete’s because of his uncon-
ventional Christianity and his un-clerical
sense of humor. Touching the latter, when
Lais used to be rather thick in the shadow
of his church, a most reputable lady of his
flock happened to be standing on the favored
beat one night, and. being mistaken for a
competitor by a strolling sister, was warned
off the course by a threatening brolly. The
good dame, who was plump, plain and
elderly, took her case to the vicar for con-
solation. “Yes,” she groaned in her agony,
“the wretch mistook me for one of her own
class.” “Oh. how could she?” answered
Hughes soothingly, and to this day the lady
has never suspected the twinkle that was in
the good man’s eye.
* * ♦ *
“Dial Sight”: A Vic. Chinaman got the
shock of his life the other day. A returned
officer who has a mop of bushfire hair and is
tired of being barracked about it, was dis-
turbed. from his ledger by hearing himself
noisily greeted, “Ginger ! Ginger !” Look-
ing up he found a Mongolian countenance
grinning at him over the counter. Without
hesitancy he hopped round and heaved John
and his wares out on to the pavement amid
many cries of “Whaffor !” When John had
gathered himself up he looked at his adver-
sary and the truth dawned on him. “No!
Me no give you cheek!” he explained. “Me
only sellem ginger!”
“Taranaki”: Apropos of that notice ap-
pearing in a Sydney shop window, “Week-
enders’ wedding-rings, 2s. 6d. each,” Adel-
aide approaches these delicate questions with
more dignity. She does not brazenly flaunt
her indiscretions, but in a refined and retir-
ing manner advertises thus :
Widow, with quiet terrace home, city, will let
furnished bedroom. No questions. Apply “Quiet,”
this office.
* * # *
“Cazna”: A Digger myself, I want to cele-
brate the heroic humor of a Tommy.
He was a Fusilier, a
Cockney and a patient in
the 3rd London General
Hospital, having fallen
foul of a shell on splash-
ing ashore at the Land-
ing. It w r as the first
visiting day after his and
our arrival. In they
streamed, eager eyes
scanning everything in
bed and bandages. There
was an old couple avidly
devouring every face till
at last they heard his
“Hullo, Mother! What-
oh. Dad!” And then,
“Our Jim!” they cried
together as they rushed
towards tha bed. After
the initial excitement had
subsided, they questioned
him with “Are yer very
bad?” Pulling the
clothes aside, gingerly he
showed all that was left
of his right leg, an inch
or so of stump below the
knee. It was the signal
for complete collapse on
the part of Mother, while
Dad swallowed hard and
brushed away a few. Jim
was only a kid, and his
eyes were glistening, but
I'll never forget his chir-
rup in a wonderfully
steady voice: “Yer don’t
want to cry abaht it,
Mother. I’ve on’y got one boot to clean
nah!”
* * * *
They are all noticing it. The other day a
Chinaman at Katanning (W.A.) was found
guilty of supplying Black Brudder with in-
toxicants, and the Judge said it would be
£25 or four months’ gaol. On being asked
whether he intended to pay, Ah Gin was all
emphasis. “No dam’ fear—cost of living too
welly high. I take it out.” Saving the £25
and four months’ meals to boot will show
almost as good a profit as sly-grog.
* * * *
An official estimate from Petrograd sets
the deaths caused by the civil war at
25,000,000. Probably the estimate is low.
In internal strife the same country stands
the wreckage of both parties all the time.
The scene can’t be shifted across the enemy’s
border, for there is no border. Further, this
was a war of special hatred, fought by what
were practically irregular troops—generally
much more destructive than regulars—and
taken, up at all manner of times and places.
And it was supplemented by two horrible
winters and the breakdown of the supplies
of fuel and food. Of course cold, disease
and hunger did most of the slaying. Ger-
many as a whole lost about half its popu-
lation in the Thirty Years’ War, which was
really three short wars with long intervals
between. In the most afflicted parts 59
deaths were reckoned out of every 60 people.
And Germany hadn’t its means of communi-
cation cut off, for people hadn’t learned to
depend on railways then, nor has it Russia’s
awful climate. Partly by reason of its
climate Russia always had a record death-
rate —about thrice that of Queensland.
When the food and fuel supplies broke down
and its “intellectuals”—doctors and such —
were largely proscribed, the burial industry
naturally got busy. It is alleged that the
name of Petrograd is to be changed again—
to Leningrad this time. Corpesville is sug-
gested as an alternative.
“Aloin”: Of the eight men registered by
the Vic. Medical Board last month five were
admitted on degrees other than Australian.
Our own medical schools are overcrowded
THOUGHTLESS.
JA C K: "You don’t seem very pleased to see
me back."
JILL: “Oh, yes, I am, but I think you might
have waited and caught the Renown;
then you could have introduced me to
the Prince."
with students, so much so that the examiners
tend to make the pass standard higher and
higher, though for many years it has ranked
amongst the highest in the world. Just as
we want to manufacture our own clothes-
pegs, so should we encourage our own
degrees. There is a tariff of sorts to pro-
tect industries ; let us have a tariff to give
our own degrees first place.. That tariff
could be in the form of an examination
which every candidate possessing foreign
degrees should be required to pass, the
standard to be that at present obtaining
in one of our universities, or the same exami-
nation as that for fifth-year students. I
know that some of the leaders of the pro-
fession and the best teachers are men who
graduated overseas; but in tlieir student days
the medical schools of Australia were non-
existent or not heard of. Since then the
graduates from the Australian Universities
have won world-wide recognition. The
schools are here; let those who wish to prac-
tise in Australia graduate therein. For
post-graduate work the world is then theirs.
# * * *
N. S. Wales Judge Rolin was surprised
when he learned that the Newcastle and
Hunter River S.S. Co. could sell its boats
at four times their book value, and seemed
to think the co. was on a wonderful wicket.
He asked why it didn’t sell. That is where
high finance comes in. If the co. sold it
would have either to go out of the business
and leave Newcastle boatless or buy new
boats at four times the pre-war price and be
back where it was, or the new people who
bought the boats at four times their pre-
war price could carry on the service and
charge about four times the old freights to
earn the same dividend. Very much of the Aus-
tralian shipping “profits” which Ryan used
to worry about arose through that kind of high
finance. First the co. sold the ship Genesis,
which was becoming hopeless, to Chinese
buyers because any bottomless old thing can
get a certificate somewhere in Asia and the
drowning of Chinese sailors doesn’t matter.
The Genesis, marked down in the books as
worth £lO,OOO, fetched £60,000 at war rates,
and when the Exodus was sold on the same
terms there was £lOO,OOO profit to go to re-
serves. Then the co. bought the Revelation
at £lOO.OOO more than the pre-war rate, so
it had £lOO,OOO more reserves, £lOO,OOO more
assets, a staggering appearance of wealth
and one ship less. It is the same with bed-
steads and other things. Judge Rolin could
probably make a big rise by selling his wig
at present prices, but he doesn’t. He could
certainly make a small fortune by getting
rid of his clothes.
THE THREE-TON LORRY,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Happy the song of the three-ton lorry,
Churning the mud on the straight French road,
Grinding to pulp grey stone from the quarry,
Hurrying forward her precious load;
Carrying shell to the eighteen pounders.
Slim grey shell to the naval guns;
Through treach’rous bogs she reels and flounders.
With grim iron rations she feeds the Huns.
Lumbering up to the fierce-fought battle;
Blasted the trees by the broad highway;
Blithe rkdnforieements, their tin hats rattle.
Fresh boy soldiers with laughter gay;
Spewing them out in the shattered village,
Ripped and torn by the bursting shell;
Crossing the field of the Devil’s tillage,
Swift they enter the gates of Hell.
Hurrying back, through the war-wracked region,
Rerelict tanks, and the lonely dead;
Spraying the dust on a marching legion,
’Planes at death-grips overhead;
Scurrying back, and the daylight fading,
Loaded with maimed from a hard-fought day—
Feverish lips, cruel Fate upbraiding;
Bloodless lips, that strove to pray.
Savage the song of the tliree-ton lorry,
Pulsing with power, trim woods between.
Heavy at heart is the motor-lorry,
Bumping along where the fields are green;
tor grim grey waves are westward sweeping—-
Old men, fled from the German goad ;
Maid, and mother with sick child weeping,
Make for the lorry a piteous load.
Grey waves break, in their wrath, assailing
Stern Austral granite that bars the way—
Furious waves, but their strength is failing!
Swift ebbs the tide, with its crimson spray.
In at the death is the three-ton lorry,
Lumbering on past the silent guns.
Over the Rhine goes the shell-torn lorry,
Carrying food to the starving Huns,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.


THE
Union Trustee Company
of Australia Limited
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees,
etc.
New South Wales: Victoria : Queensland
The only Trustee Company having;
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Hon. H. Y. Braddon,
M.L.C., F. B. S. Falkiner, James Kidd, W. H.
Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan Sinclair.
V. G. WATSON, JOHN MALE,
Assistant Manager. Manager.
CALL OR SEND FOR COMPANY’S BOOKLET.
Acouslicon
deaf?
You can HEAR, and
we prove it by posting
you an easy-to-wear
ON 10 DAYS’
FREE TRIAL.
No deposit, obligation, or expense.
330,000 delighted users, including the
Minister, Mr. Hughes, who has been
the Acousticon" for more than five
Over
Prime
using
years!
Lamson
Store r rt 102 Daklng: House, SYDNEY
Service Older-fleet, Collins St.,MELB.
NJ!.: John Procter, 200 High St„ Christc’k.
W.A.: U. Little & Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
The
finest
Tobacco
obtainable is
S)GEWOJ fto/
EXTRA HIGH GRADCJJ
r EADYRUBBED
3]
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfUNQ ROOF GARDEN.
Manae-ement E. T. CHEKSEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Princelet weighs 9st. 41b.
Lassetters, of Sydney, will this year cele-
brate the century of their establishment, and
the year, after next Anthony Hordern and
Sons will do likewise. In 1820 Launcelot
Iredale opened a hardware shop in George-
street, a little south of the Market-street of
to-day. He had for next-door neighbor
Daniel Cooper, of the Waterloo Warehouse.
The late Frederick Lasset-ter married a
daughter of the original Iredale, and con-
tinued the business under his own name.
Horderns commenced in 1822 in King-street,
near Pitt-street, in a shop then as now in
the Terry family.
Victoria has never cancelled an Agent-
General’s appointment before he has reached
the office, but in the last 30 years two have
been brought back to the State to answer
charges made by hostile critics. Munro
SENATOR
PRATTEN.
was attacked by
shareholders of
financial concerns
in which he had a
directing voice, and
Taverner was shot
at as a public man.
Munro faced hi.s ac-
cusers and they did
nothing in particu-
lar. Munro thought
it was a long, long
way to Lon’doh, so
he resigned. Tav-
erner was exoner-
ated by a Commis-
sion, and hurried
off back to the
Strand before Bent,
who was Premier,
had time to get his
breath. Tummas
sent a rebuke to
.John for not biding
for orders, but the
epistle was intended
only for home
consumption.
The McKinleys and Melbourne Punch have
parted after over 40 years. The price was
something like £20,000, find the purchaser
is said to be F. W. Hughes, who is the
Colonial Combing, Spinning and Weaving
Cos., Ltd., which has made obese profits
from. w r ool-tops. Punch was born a
little over 65 years back. The McKinleys
were its printers; its owner was a non*
descript sort of wayfarer who declared that
Melbourne needed waking up, never guessing
how often the outcome of his enterprise
would put it to sleep. Tom Carrington, the
most important of its early cartoonists, was
a digger with a taste for drawing. He
copied Tenniel, but turned out some forceful
drawings that made the paper rather a power
in the days of the so-called Berry blight.
Gradually it drifted into the hands of the
printers, the fate of 90 per cent, of such
publications, and has been in the charge of
one or other of the McKinley brothers ever
since. Ex-Prime Minister Chris. W atson is
in Freddie Hughes’s office nowadays, and
since he began his career at the compositor’s
“case” and was a director of The W orld,
Sydney Labor’s unborn daily, he is no doubt
giving his chief a hint or two about the
new business.
Christopher Mudd, F.L.S., has died at
East St. Kilda. Mudd was a born wanderer
and for 22 years was a “deputation agent”
of the Methodist Home Mission Society in
Victoria. He specialised in the study of
plants, and was the botanist in the former
Edward Prince of Wales’s party when the
young man visited India to improve his mind.
Toby Barton’s first client in a criminal
case was hanged. Holman’s first, after his
return to practice, has been sentenced to
death.
The first Australian-born surgeon was Wil-
liam Sherwin, a
native of Par-
ramatta, where
his father
was store-
keeper.
Sherwin
was in
1819 appren-
ticed to William
Bland, formerly
a naval surgeon,
who had been
transported for
killing his oppo-
nent in a duel.
After serving
his five years
with Bland.
Sherwin went
to London and
obtained h i s
diploma from
the Royal Col-
lege of Sur-
geons, after
which lie re-
turned to N. S.
Wales.
SIR WILLIAM
ALLARDYCE,
the Speck’s
new Governor.
May 3 was the centenary of the arrival
at Sydney of Father John Joseph Therry,
and from it dates the continuous exercise of
the R.C. religion in Australia. Father Philip
Connolly arrived by the same vessel, but
went on to Tasmania, where he lived for
many years. Long- before that, in April,
1803, Governor King allowed Father James
Dixon to exercise the functions of a priest,
and Dixon said the first mass at Sydney on
May 15, 1803. But he returned to Ireland
in 1808, leaving the flock without a shep-
herd. Father Jeremiah Flynn arrived at
Sydney in 1818, but as he could not produce
any document to show that his mission had
the sanction of the authorities, Governor*
Macquarie packed him back to Europe.
Therry and Connolly were granted not only
official recognition, but a salary of £lOO a
year each.
Captain Harry Butler, the Adelaide air-
man, has established a new record for the
Commonwealth by taking aloft on the one
trip three generations of a Medindie family—
an elderly lady, her daughter and the latter’s
child.
McGirr, first Minister for Motherhood in
N. S. Wales, has been married five years
and has four children.
Dave Watkins, M.H.R. for Newcastle
(N.S.W.), on May 5 was 55. He was born
on the sth day of the sth month in the
year ’65.
Among the audience at a Melbourne theatre
the other evening were J. Hopkins, of Sale,
his wife and Capt. Roy King, aviator. They
left the Gippsland township, per ’plane, at
4.30, covered the 128 miles by 5.35, had tea
and a brush-up, and then lounged across to
the revue.
In the last half of the ’fifties, at 21
Lonsdale-street West, Melbourne, Brabazon
Purcell had a “horse repository.” Register-
ing there were Watson and Hewitt’s Coach
Co. and F. B. Clapp and Co.’s Coach Co.—
Cobb and Co. had their office at 23 Bourke-
street East, next, door to Buckley and Nunn.
Later these three coach cos. amalgamated,
or wandered into Cobb and Co.’s office. Still
later F. B. Clapp became manager of the
Melbourne Omnibus Co., with an office in
Bourke-street, and he was also an importer
of Concord buggies. Hill’s harness and other
Yankee notions. That is his son, Harrold,
who. after adding to his Australian training
some experience of Yankee railways, has been
appointed Chief Commissioner in \ ic. at
foUOO a year.
The long-distance courtship record must
be held by the bachelor and spinster, aged
72 and 66, who have been married at Young
(N.S.W.). They had known each other for
50 years before they decided to take the
plunge.
C. H. Wheatland, who passed out the
other day, was for long Chief Clerk of the
Vic. State Treasury. Greatness was thrust
upon him when he was made Under-
Treasurer in Bent’s time, but he did not
rise to his opportunity, and made room for
Minogue. After going back awhile to his old
job he retired on pension—that was nearly
10 years ago. He was a civil servant of the
old type, a bundle of affable courtesy tied
up with red-tape.
Allerdale Grainger, one of Adelaide's best-
known citizens, left for England last week,
and expects to end his days there. S. Aus
first knew him about half a century ago
when he ran a weekly Australian Star in
the Protectionist interest, then something of
a novelty. He was a keen mining man and
politician, and had a term in London, from
1901, as Agent-General for the State in suc-
cession to John Gockburn. When he came
back he was made a State Savings Bank
trustee, and he has had few public appear-
ances since.
G. S. Wright has just faded out of the
State Bank of S. Aus., having “long leave”
to the end of 1920. His life has been given
to Government service, except that as a
youth he had a shot at law and newspaper
work. At IS —57 years ago—he was in the
Adelaide G.P.O. Subsequent wide experi-
ence in the Crown Lands Office made him
the best Inspector-General in sight for the
first State bank in Australia when it
started 25 years ago. McNamara, his chief
assistant, will do the work for the rest of
this year, and will presumably retain the job.
R. McVilly, general manager of the
Maoriland railways, who has been battling
with strikes and princes and things, is an-
other of the Tasmanians who have made a
hit away from home. He once held a junior
job in the Speck’s railways, but not seeing
much ahead in the island, which had the
importing fever in a virulent form, he went
over to M.L., and never looked back. His
brother has been for years head reader on
the Hobart Mercury, and his nephew, Cap-
tain Cecil McVilly, is ex-amateur sculling
champion of Australia and winner of the
diamond sculls at Henley.
Died lately, Philip J. Byrne, known
amongst railway men of two States on the
engineering side. As an apprentice at New-
port (Vic.) he Jearnt to make and mend
locos., and at the time of his early death (at
just over 40) he was curing sick engines at
Eveleigh (N.S.W.). One of the originators
of the now-booming “Safety-First” movement
in the N.S.W. Railways—a movement which
has resulted in fewer mangled workers —he
was responsible for numerous devices and
ideas now in use in the Vic. and N.S.W.
systems, and thereby earned much more lime-
light than a man of his useful class ever
gets.
From the Federal Gallery :— ■
Granville de Yawn Eyrie seems to have left all
his pugnacity in Egypt and Palestine. Before the
war he was about as gentle as dynamite, and I
remember him offering to remove his coat in order
to make the promised hiding of a Labor member
easier. Nowadays he is oppressed by a paralysing
lassitude. He sits idly on the Government side of
the table, and it is very very rarely that the old
spirit flickers in a tart interjection. For the most
part he puddles desultorily with a pencil on his
blotter, or politely beheads the yawns that are born
of his weariness; and at least once, as Minister in
charge, he has had to be prompted to move-the
adjournment.
A syndicate has been formed at Grenfell
(N.S.W.) to purchase a valuable gold nug-
get recently found in the neighborhood and
to make a gift of it to the Prince of Wales
conditionally on 11.R.H. paying a visit to
Grenfell. Had the Prince’s grand-uncle, the
Duke of Edinburgh, heard of such an offer
he would have closed with it at once. ■ While
the Duke was in Australia he was literally
laden with valuable gifts, including gold and
silver trowels and nuggets. From Melbourne
alone over 100 packages were made up at
the expense of the State and sent to Lon-
don, carriage paid. Only one article —a live
one—was sent by hand. This was the ter-
rier Mollie, which Walter Montgomery, the
actor, agreed to keep and carry home. When
“Monty” died he left the Duke a finger ring.
H.R.H. promptly sent for it. He was a
young man who took no chances.
An identity of old Sydney has just passed
westward —-Mrs. Matilda Augusta Miller,
of Stanmore, relict of Peter Miller. The
lady, who was the last surviving daughter of
the Rev. Joseph Orton, superintendent of
Methodists in Australia, 1832-42, was born
in the Mission House, Princes-sti-eet. Sydney,
in 1835. Orton Park, Bathurst, the home
of one bx-anch of the McPhillamys, is named
after this pioneer. Mr. Lane, an early
owner, driving Mr. Orton past the site,
promised to erect a church there—a promise
still (and likely to be be) unfulfilled. But
it was called Orton Park to go on with.
A brass tablet is to be put in the R.C.
Cathedral of Nottingham (Eng.) to the
memory of Dr. Willson, the first Bishop of
Hobart. His body lies in the crypt there.
J. A. HARPER,
of Adelaide, the
new President of
the Associated
Chambers of
Manufactures.
In 1842 the Pope
appointed Willson
to Hobart Town.
When he arrived he
was horrified at
the treatment of
the convicts. The
row he made caused
a stir in England,
and the House of
Lords undertook to
investigate the
management of the
settlement. The
Bishop was invited
to give evidence be-
fore the House, and
thither he went.
Shortly afterwards
(1853) transporta-
tion was abolished.
Westralia’s Rhodes Scholar for 1920, D.
C. Sinclair, is the fourth consecutive winner
to come from the local C. of E. Grammar
School. He is the son of a country post-
master. and has had exhibitions and scholar-
ships for breakfast, dinner and tea practi-
cally all his life.
Died, in her 93rd year, Mrs. Ann Loane
Chapman, whose father, Emanuel Ilunger-
ford, a captain in the Cork Militia, emigrated
to Sydney in 1828 and settled at Farley,
West Maitland. A brother, Septimus Hun-
gerford, now in his 95th year, is the sole sur-
vivor of the State-paid clergymen of N. S.
Wales. The Act abolishing the system was
passed in 1863, but all clergymen on the
pay-sheet were secured in their salaries fox-
life. Mr. Hungerford has continued to
draw the stipend for 57 years.
A yarn published about the awed silence
of the Dannevirke (M.L.) kiddies when wel-
coming Edward because the Mayor is an
undertaker and his appearance in a tall hat
suggests a funeral, recalls that it took
Castlemaine (Vic.) people some time to get
used to a cocked-hatted and fur-robed muni-
cipal chairman who was also an undertaker
in his spare time. At last the .spell was
broken, One night when J. B. Patterson,
the then Pi-emier, was getting off a pre-
election or pre-sessional speech, the under-
taker was chairman. The “free and inde-
pendent” electors cut up rough, and after
taunting Patterson on the disappearance of
his much-vaunted backbone invited Tommy
the Mayor to “double him up.” Thereafter
his Worship’s calling was treated as a joke,
Crawford Vaughan, ex-Premier of S. Aus-
tralia, who is still in England, is writing
a little tjiing about Australia to serve as a
class-book for British teachers who want
to let the young idea know something about
the country.
Will Farrow, an Australian artist who
has been sketching for some time past for
London periodicals, has joined the Daily
News to do its sporting caricatures. He
makes the third Aussie sporting cartoonist
on the London dailies, the other two being
Lance Mattinson (Daily llekald) and Will
Hope (Daily Chronicle).
“Geoi-ges Le Blank”: We went down to
the station, Black and I, to see the train
come in. While we were waiting we got
to work with our sketch-books. There was
one little chap I tried hard to get, but as
I’m no good on two-second poses I had to
give him up. H'e was just the kind you’d
expect to come out of the scrub. A little,
round-shouldered shrimp, with eyes slanting
upwards, and he made a great color-scheme.
He had on an old bottle-green overcoat,
rusty black leggings and a pair of tan boots.
The overcoat had a rip up the back, and you
could see a packet of chocolate sticking out
of his hind pocket. When the train came
in the little chap rushed about like a bee
in a bottle and got tangled up in the crowd.
He came out triumphantly hanging on the
arm of a big fellow with a xvhite moustache,
like a small boy out with his dad. As I
was watching him a bush bloke behind said,
“Plim ! Oh. that’s Billy Hughes—come down
from Sassafras to meet So-and-so.”
(Continued on page IS.)
INTRODUCING TWO COMIC GIANTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pray stay a moment, friends; I now present
Two comic giants, men of tragic fun,
Whom to this spinning-top the good gods sent
To do the jobs which always must be done.
These worthy giants, friends, are not a myth ;
Be good enough to meet old Brown and Smith.
Forgive them if their cuffs are fringed with thread
And if their socks show darns about the heels;
They are not richly paid or overfed,
They merely work to earn their beds and meals;
They do not do the cunping tricks that pay,
But simply toil along from day to day.
They loom tremendous in the rank and file,
Making the world go round with their bare hands ;
They go about their duties with a smile
And dp not seek red carpet and brass bands.
Others may do the planning, but at length
My humble giants will supply the strength.
They gain so little and they do so much,
Upon life’s treadmill trudge their weary feet;
They do not give the artful, clever touch,
Or draw their strength from frenzy’s fevered heat;
They do not reach the heights of great renown,
But to the enul are billed as Smith and Brown.
My splendid comic giants are so mild
The world can see no sorrow in their tears,
Nor greatly cares if they are somewhat riled,
Nor gives them comfort in their doubts and fears—
It merely takes their services, and yet
Dear Smith and Brown are far too vast to fret.
They’re not the Workers, nor the Uppah Class;
Their lot is cast somewhere between the two;
And sometimes when I watch them a? they pass,
I think they’re merely blokes like me and you.
Yes, there are moments when they seem like kith,
My sadly comic giants, Brown and Smith !
VICTORIA,
DALE COLLINS.


a
m
m
W' '
i":
if
*
*i. '''.
<-
* * J e Z' $
mpM li
'ijf 5 V X
*<! < 'X&
X*'/* - > , **' *!
IRi
5 -
i
SI
' ;'
■ $ '
%'S <■> *
J'~
:§?
' •" ,
• .■'•- - . ■
% WSM it ‘'imm&Wrj
' ' ' <
Vif"
o
'*y\
L* ±
-■ •-. 'i
?f i
:-ii
\ ■ * i, <r
, i Is
.
f ■
I m K
L^l
IP
x t
**
Bw£*fras||]|»
|ll v < k
v ■
V
•W*-V >' - V | |(
'*"• • .'•• /. w< \V A •-., •
V
(
. '•• ■ •
i*s \ :
>
[
■
iA
> *
PMPNh; T (
?y>' ' ‘ s ‘ ■
'J
\
I Jl\
K #>m SKWfcW* *>.: ■ :jM|
1 -
\'' ! '
/ c
CIVIC
THE
STANDARD
r iißifi yrnri*-


SUNSHINE Farm Implements
Work Well ..i Last Long.
Write to any of these addresses for new Catalogue 85, sent post free.
H.V. McKay
Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
Corner Collins and Spencer Streets, Melbourne.
-
56 North Terrace, Adelaide.
36 Pier Street, Perth.
, Corner York and St. John Streets, Launceston.
Sunshine
Harvester
Works.
Ask for prices and terms on any of the following in which you are interested
Harvesters
Headers
Grain Drills
Fertiliser Drills
Patent Combined Drill and
Cultivator
Lucerne Seeders
Chaff cutters
Chaff Elevators
Saw Benches
Spring Tyne Cultivators
Grain Boxes
Rigid Tyne Cultivators
One Way Disc Cultivators
Stump-Jump Disc Cultivators
Mouldboard Ploughs, 1- to 5-
furrow
Orchard Ploughs
Disc Ploughs
Plough Shares
Harrows
Swingletrees
Metal Gates
Maize Shellers
Engines, 1 \ to 10 h.
Working Heads
Pumps
"Two Seas”: Torn Hassell, who took up
hie last selection in S’Africa recently, bought
votes by the sweat of his brow. We had
dropped in upon a cocky and his three sons
on our way to vote in the 1890 election. The
cockies declared they were too busy harvest-
ing their corn crop to go with us to the
poll. The Labor candidate, Len Court,
was expected to poll pretty heavily in Bin-
gara—partly owing to the fact that the
pubs were serving free drinks for the cause.
(The booze was the gift of a cheerful idiot
who had drawn the £lO,OOO prize in Tatt.’s
sweep.) Every vote was wanted, and when
Tom Hassell drove up to that farm on his
way to town he argmed fiercely with the boss-
cocky about tne sin of giving four votes to
the "enemy. Old whiskers couldn’t see any
question more important than “gettin’ in
his crap o’ corn.” At last Tom grew desper-
ate. “Look, old man,” he said ; “if we get
this blistered crop in the barn in time will
you come in with me and vote?” “Yairs,”
replied the cocky, “and all hands with me.”
Thereupon the future N.S.W. Minister for
Lands threw off his coat and vest, tied his
WILLIAM
FRASER, M.L.C.,
Minister for Public
Works, Maoriland.
braces round his waist
and waded into the
crop like 40 infuri-
at e d devils. He
sweated not in vain,
for late that after-
noon the whole crowd
of us rode and drove
hell-for-leather for
town and were just in
time to for him.
His jovial * presence
was always welcomed
by the cockies when
he dropped in for din-
ner. and many won-
dered why. in after
years, when settled in
S’Africa, he publicly
stated that “Australia
was a good place to
be out of.” In his
own case no doubt he
spoke the truth.
“Lou” meets an irreconcilable: —
“Jimmy” Quinton, who the other night at a
Paris Commune celebration in the Brisbane Tracies
Hall made a furious attack on Labor politicians, is
the young Australian who one day assured a Sydney
magistrate that lie lived at No. 7 Tree. Hyde Park.
Being a straightgoer, a keen student of Labor mat-
ters, with a flail of barbed wire for a tongue, and
wanting nothing from the toilers in the way of a
job, he has always been a nasty proposition for
trimmers. Recently, after he had talked to the
unemployed up there, the meetings were attended
by two uniformed men, a couple in plain rig and
a shorthand writer. But that wouldn’t silence
Jimmy Quinton, who would just as soon address the
law as the out-of-works. A while back, when he
thought the revolution was slowing down a bit,
he loaded a stock of literature and toured the coun-
try in the Red Waggon, a turnout that was familiar
to Queen-street during the war; and one time when
the Government wouldn’t give him free speech he
chained himself to a tree and lashed out. Quinton
is not the sort of man that a political party could
safely give a job to, because he would only go
in to wake up his “fellow-slaves.” He was one of
a few up North who a few months ago had all the
matter ready for the first issue of a new Labor
paper, the Rank and File. But no printer in Bris-
bane was game to take it on.
Batman may or may pot, have founded
Melbourne, but Charley Nuttall, the artist,
eertainly founded John Batman. It came
about this way. One day the head of a
printing firm called on Nuttall for a large
head of Batman. Nuttall went to work to
discover if Batman had a head, but the
hunt was fruitless. If the late John ever
had one it had been misplaced, and was
undiscoverable. So the artist set to work
and drew John Batman as John Batman
ought to have been. Possibly the real John
Batman was not in the least like what John
Batman should have been, but Nuttall’s idea
of J.B. was eminently satisfactory, and the
firm of printers put it out as the founder
of Melbourne. Time flew and Nuttall forgot
the child of his brain and pencil, till, years
after, to his great surprise, he discovered
John in a large historical tome. It was his
John Batman. Since then he has found John
in several serious publications, and he has
always been the same.
Claude Marquet, the serviceable Labor
cartoonist who was drowned the other day,
had given small consideration to the graces
and subtleties of art, and when in Mel-
bourne, shortly after forsaking Adelaide, was
put on by a not-too-sagaeious editor to do
a pretty-pretty drawing of a lady singer
then attracting attention. Claude had two
or three shots at it, but could not satisfy
himself, and finally gave it up in disgust.
Instead of the pretty-pretty drawing he
produced a rough-and-ready caricature of a
familiar city figure, a bedraggled woman
who sang soggy ballads at the Cathedral
fence o’ nights. This Marquet submitted
to the editor, who looked it over in amaze-
ment, and gasped : “But. bless my soul, this
is not Madame !” “No,” said Marquet.
“hut she is a public singer, and, anyhow, she
is the only soprano in Melbourne l can
make a satisfactory picture of.”
“N. Biram”: The late “Dicky” Richards,
who died in the chain of office as Mayor
of Sydney, had a good knowledge of Shaks-
pcare and let no occasion get past him of air-
ing the Bard. When Barton died and
everybody was busy “paying tributes,”
Richards decided to make his contribution
at a City Council meeting. An early press-
man had the tribute dictated to him. It
contained a fairly large slice of appropriate
Shakspeare and the reporter got it down cor-
rectly. Then came the meeting and
Richards’s speech—but the quotation did
not arrive! After the eulogy the orator
beckoned the pressman over to him. “How’d
it go?” he inquired. “Fine,” said the press-
man, “but what about the quotation? You
forgot it. Will I leave it out?” “Oh, cer-
tainly not,” said Mayor Richards without
any hesitation, “put it in. It wouldn’t
have been appreciated here.” (He swept
the chamber with a gesture.! “But the
general public—don’t deprive them. Tho>
expect it from me! Use it, my lad, usi
it.” And next morning’s paper “used it.”
“J.F.11.” from London :
Melbourne Age onee nearly had a future member
of the House of* Lords as its editor—Lord Russell
of Liverpool, the veteran octogenarian editor and
proprietor of the Liverpool Daily Post, which he
worked up into the most influential and literary of
the provincial morning papers, little if at all iu-
ferior in any lespect to it- London contemporaries.
Left fatherless in London while in his early teem,
Russell became first a clerk and afterwards a school-
teacher. During intervals of the latter occupation
he contributed to a suburban paper in Islington, and
that took him presently to the Mousing Stap., a
paper of which John Bright was part-proprietor.
It was well-written, but was wrecked by bad
management. Soon after its collapse Russell was
offered the editorship of tire Age, and he actually
accepted it; but in deference to the entreaties of
his mother, who shrank from separation by such a
distance, he withdrew and went instead to the
chair of the Liverpool Daily Post, which he we
destined to occupy continuously for upwards of , r .O
years right up to the day of his recent death.
Charles Topp. who. after putting in some
years as chairman of the Vic. Health Board
and permanent head of the Chief Secre-
tary’s Department, wound up as Public Ser-
vice Commissioner 12 years ago. is still
about. He is to be met occasionally in the
city with an armful of books, enough for
a week’s reading, homeward bound. It was
Topp who mapped out the first set of Federal
constituencies for Vic. at the end of 1900.
A woman whom some kink in her parents
caused to be registered in the name of Wil-
liam works off a hardv-perennial on the suc-
cessive officials, relieving officials and sub-
officials of a Government department in
Victoria. She is a pensioner who calls for
a monthly cheque. "Have you an II order?”
is the invariable query of the new man.
She' says she hasn’t. “But, madam,” pro-
tests the disgusted official, “you cannot col-
COLONEL ERIC
FAIRWEATHER HAR-
RISON, Military Com-
mandant of Tasmania.
lect a cheque for William
M-m-m-ni without an II
order!” She says she’s
never had one before.
“I don’t care what Mr.
Whosit used to do,” is
the general response; ”1
am now in charge, and 1
will deliver the cheque
only to William M-m-ni-m
or his order!” “But /
am William M-m-in-m!”
she says, and slips into
an adjoining office to
bring out a veteran as
identifier. “Come and
tell this poor new man
I’m William M-m-m-m!”
she pleads. After which
there is the exit tritun-
phant, while the official
wipes his hot neck.
Begbie is the author of a new, copious and
satisfying life of General Booth, in two vol-
umes. And oue is more than ever assured
0 f the old man's Jewish origin by the State-
ment that he served his apprenticeship to a
Nottingham pawnbroker.
THE REDEMPTION OF McGUIRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
McGuire had been a horrid man
For twenty years and more.
Good women had him ’neath a ban,
Good men could but abhor
His course of conduct; but McGuire
Hew long, illicit flights.
And disregarded saintly ire.
He followed every ill desire
And any girl he might admire,
And had his merry nights.
He drank strong waters, and he sang
The ballads of the day;
The dim, strange streets of morning rang
Oft to his ribald lay,
And fair men turning in the street
Made murmur of his shame.
He tasted each forbidden sweet,
A Don Juan, his life replete
With conquests, nor did e’er he meet
With retribution’s flame.
He was most happy in his sin,
A creature free from care.
Then came a girl he wished to win,
As good as she was fair.
McGuire gave up the drink, foreswore
The flighty dames he knew;
lie woke the welkin never more,
Wed Mary, and to sin foreborc.
Came trouble then, and anguish sore,
And bitterness and rue.
Dark men appeared, demanding straight
Compounding of old sins,
And women fierce are at his gate
As soon as day begins.
To them they say the man is bound
By every moral tie.
Like rabbit cowering from the hound
McGuire lies hid, as all around
Spring ancient debtors from the ground
To scourge him hip and thigh.
A good, true husband is McGuire,
A father fond, ’tis said;
Yet fires of tribulation dire
Are rained upon his head.
'Tis truth the frivolous and guy
Are blithe, unharried souls,
But let them keep to sport and play—
For them the straight and narrow way
Is set with thorns, and quicksands aye,
And cursed with heavy tolls!
VICTORIA.
E. DYSON.


FITTINGS
BUILD THE PERFECT BICYCLE.
TRADEMARKS
B.S.A.
THOROUGHLY
BRITISH.
*
7
\
*
&
7
£
s
w HEN the experienced cycle rider sees the
famous “ Three piled rides” trade mark of
the B.S.A. Fittings, he knows that at the back
of that particular bicycle are the experience and skill
of years in the production of high-grade cycles.
The choice of a Bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings
is a matter of business, the economy, reliability and
freedom from trouble making the purchase of B.S.A.
a sound investment which will never be regretted.
Regular B.S.A. Riders say there is nothing to equal
the satisfaction of the service which underlies the
transfer of the “Three piled rides.”
The range of models and constructional improve-
ments shown in the B.S.A. Catalogue will illustrate
why the Bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings holds the
predominant position in the cycling world.
B.S.A. Fittings are
Guaranteed Interchangeable.
Exact replacements of any part can be
obtained. Don’t be put off with “pattern
fittings,” but look for the B.S.A. Trade
Marks on EVERY PART. They are
your guarantee.
Send for B.S.A. Handbook
free from
D. Y. RENNIE,
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS,
MELBOURNE.


Orient
sou ND V/ILUE
BOOTS
v.".- : ■
66
Orient” Calf Lace Boots
Unusual Value at
Ihe distinctive appearance always
given expression to in “Orient”
f ootwear, together with the service-
giving qualities we know them to
possess, enables us to claim, with
every confidence, that no better
“boqt values” are obtainable in
Sydney. Style illustrated, in Black
or Tan Calf, welted soles, round
toes and drill-lined. Sizes sto 10.
Two fittings to each size. 32 6
W’E PAY CAKKIACE.
David cJones'
for .Service
Opp. C. P O. S Y D N E V Tel City 61J6
326
bcess
mm
*> /
V
2
Here s the short
road to bigger
and better
prod uction!
ANYONE who produces metal
goods from sheet, bar or pipe
can swell production and
profits by using the Thomson Electric
Welding Process.
Here is a job composed of 24-gauge
Iron which shows forcibly how any
producer of sheet-metal goods can
speed up production. There are 56
separate welds in each of these
mufflers, and the 1 homson Spot
Welder produces 30 mufflers per hour
-—13,440 welds in 8 hours. The
1 homson Electric Welding Process leaves riveting,
seaming, brazing and fire welding hopelessly
behind, not only regarding production, but in the
quality of the article produced. Tell us exactly
what you manufacture.
Our advice is given freely.
Alternating Electric Arc Welding and Cutting Machines, Portable and
Weather-proof. Write for particulars. All sizes for all purposes.
BENSON BROTHERS LTD.
76-78 Liverpool Street, Sydney. 71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
C 299
The Vanishing Wood jammer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ERHAPS the fix’st of the various
pioneering stums of the Common-
wealth to attain the dignity of a
Lost Art will be the purely Australian-made
calling of the wood-jammer. It is not sug-
gested that Australia is the only country in
rhe world where men have carted fuel direct
from the btlsh for sale in the cities; but in
no other country were the conditions pre-
sent for the elevation of the humble though
ancient calling into a specialised industry
or trade, whose secret processes and tricks
amounted to something approaching High
Art.
From the very earliest days of wood jam-
ming for the needs of Melbourne, the trick
of “building hollow" was well known to all
reputable jammers. You see, the Vic-
torian wood-carter knew that Melbourne
liked to get its firewood in big loads. It was
pari of the game of keeping up appear-
ances among the neighbors. So the wood-
jammer learned bow to make a reasonable
ten-bob's worth of firewood look like a huge
stack on his fore-shortened and aft-short-
ened dray by building the load hollow. It
was not an easy task, for the roads were
rough and the way was long, and a carelessly-
built load might collapse in the public street
and ruin the honest carter’s reputation as
well as injure himself or his moke.
Another simple yet laborious device was
“making two," but this was not practised
to any great extent until the nearest lire-
wood country had shrunk back a dozen miles,
so that two days were needed to deliver a
load where formerly one day sufficed. The
wood-jammer mostly lived at Nona wading,
or Black Flat, or Spring Vale, or somewhere
in Mulgrave a mile or two on the Daude-
noug side of < fnkleigh; so' it was one day
out to the bush for his load and home, the
next day to town and empty home—the
first day a hard one for horse and beast,
the second day not so strenuous. Before
the Gippslnnd and Bingwood and Fcrntree
Gully railways were built a woodcutter
could sometimes get some back-loading for
country stores, but the regular jammer
usually reckoned that loading one way was
enough for his horseflesh. The “making
two" procedure was simple. The wood
jammer would bring a fair load t say 2.7
or 30 ewt. for one horse) as far as the
city boundary, where he would pull into a
handy side-lane (l)andenong-road jammers
had a favorite spot along the side fence of
the St. Kilda Cemetery, near a sand-pit),
lip or throw the load off. make the body of
the dray at least a foot shorter by tying
a cross-log at eacii end inside the stanchions,
hollow-build half the heap into a fine-looking
load, hawk it from door to door till he sold
it. then return for the other half of the fuel
and repeat the hawking performance in
some other street. In summer time, when
the roads were good and the days long, an
industrious man would perhaps succeed in
“making three" instead of the usual two
dodgers out of liis load.
Gradually by-the-load stiles of firewood
were replaced by stiles by weight (four or
five feet lengths from 7d. to 9d. per ewt.).
Direct soiling to the consumer by the jammers
practically ceased, except to oJd and regular
customers. Most of the wood went through
the city wood-yards, where the circular saw
met the more modern stove needs. Weigh-
bridges were set up by the suburban road-
sides where the more or less reliable person
in charge issued the jammer a ticket show-
ing the weight of the load, gross, taro and
nett. These tickets were accepted by the
city wood-merchants as correct, and as the
said fuel-distributors were generally share-
holders in the weighbridge company, doubt-
less their confidence was not wholly unjusti-
fied—on the average, and after tiie weigh-
bridge officials had learned the simple ways
of the hard-working woodjatnmers. With
inexperienced weighbridge men it was easy
enough for the guileless bushmen to make
a 80cwt. load weigh at least 82ewt. A
tight belly-band and a horse trained to hang
steadily and heavily in the breeching during
the process of weighing the load (all wood-
jammers’ horses were tractable and readily
responded to whispered injunctions) made
all the difference. The weight of the dray
was known and could be deducted from the
gross; the weight of the moke’s stomach and
hindquarters wasn’t.
But often enough the official was entirely
blameless, even of carelessness. Two wood-
carters might travel into town together, each
with a load. Or perhaps one man owned
two drays and drove them on his own (this
was not always a crime under the traffic re-
gulations). There were two weighbridges
on the route, one a mile outside the city
boundary, the other just inside the bound-
ary. Before the teams hove in sight <d'
the first bridge they were laid wheel to
wheel and portion of the cargo of oue trans-
ferred to the other —perhaps 8c wt. The
heavily-laden one was weighed on the first
weighbridge: the other passed and waited
at a convenient spot along the road for its
mate. In turn, the little load became the
big load and was weighed on the next Weigh-
bridge. After that the loads were restored
to their original size, and each team went
its separate way to seek a customer; Each
woodjatnmer liad in his pocket a weighbridge
ticket showing that his load weighed 33e\vt..
whereas the actual weight was MOcwt. If
the fuel was selling at Sd. per ewt. each
honest wood-profiteer made a whole 2s. —
less than a penny per ewt. on the actual
value of his load ! To secure this result they
had to shift 12ewt. of heavy and splintery
billet-wood—“ewt. on the first transfer, 6ewt.
on the second, and 3cwt. on the final adjust-
ment. The gain seems hardly worth the
scandal. It was surely Art for Art’s sake.
It is sad to reflect that such Art is now
among the Almost Lost. In none of the
capitals of the Commonwealth (barring, per-
haps. Hobart, in a very limited sense) is
there scope left for the operations of the
woodjammer. His occupation is gone, and
for ever, for the bush lias retreated beyond
the ambit of wood-drays, and the circiibi-
saw screeches in nine-inch spasms at distant
railway-sidings instead of in Clot pel-street.
JOHN DRAYMAN.


«Mh ■
miimwi'iniw
m
m
m
M
£5
E
35?
WM
m
0^
f'trWwnfiKm, -
l-Hi
■
a“H»u»i|»*»m»tt»|t»
u
I U
m
I h 111 In i
conserves energy
'“TRANSMISSION
A belts may be parasites
absorbing much of the life-
blood of production —
Power.
They can be vigorous
power arteries keeping
production flush with
expectation.
They can decide between effi-
ciency and inefficiency. They
can determine output.
Goodyear Transmission Belts insure
greater production for a given volume
of power than is possible with ordinary
belts.
The method of construction and the
materials used compel efficiency.
To insure maximum pulley contact
they are made extraordinarily pliable
by impregnation with compounded
rubber, forced in under enormous
l
pressure.
To make efficacious the contact surface
thus commanded the belts are provided
with a superior friction surface—
flexible, gripping, tough.
The specially woven duck, having a
tested tensile strength far in excess of
that commonly used, gives strength
without power-squandering weight.
Goodyear Belts are built to conserve
energy.
The cost records kept in hundreds of
plants in scores of industries show that
they do conserve it.
And their quality is constant.
They give longer service, continual
service, better service.
Our specification of Goodyear Belting
carries with it the acceptance of
responsibility for its satisfactory service
and wear.
Stocks of Goodyear Mechanical Rubber Goods are now carried throughout Australia by
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED
ADELAIDE, MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, BRISBANE, PERTH.
v ?s&*e' &'r*&~ tsH*- ;
wm w&
3 m
1
B ELT
G
m
\: .
m
OR3 i <g
■■ ■
VAL V E
ffe <Mtiit^tmSiiiliimtiJSii


A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Neck-
let, set Pearls and Aqua-
marines, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s
loot. Gold Ring, set
Aquamarine or
Tourmaline, £2.
A Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, 10/6.
SPECIAL DESIGNS
0*
lit
00
o
Gent.’s Wristlet Watch, 25/-, 80/-,
, Solid Silver, £2/10/-, £3.
A. Saunders’
Oct. solid Gold Albert, £3/10/
Heavier, £4, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s
9et. Gold Signet Ring,
20/-
15ct. Gold, £2,
A. daunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, 20/-; heavier,
25/-, 30/-; 15ct. Gold,
£2, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold Necket, set
Pearls and Amethyst or Rubies and
Pearls, £2.
A. Saunders’ Pearl Set Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£2/15/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls and
Bed Stones, 25/-
A. Saunders’ Aquamarine Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£2.
A. Saunders’
Diamond Cross-
over Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’
Diamond Boat-
shape Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’
Lady’s 9et. Gold
Signet Ring,
12/6; 1 Set-
Gold, 25/-;
18ct., 30/-
■AVNBKn*
« >n«n
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s high-grade Nickel
Lever, £2. Extra Jewelled, £2/10/-,
£3. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
Lady’s Single
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’
Diamond Half-
hoop Ring, 18et.
Gold, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’
Lady’s Aquamarine
or Tourmaline
Ring, 9ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, set Pearla
and Red Stones, 12/6.
A. Saunders’ Aquamarine Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
35/-
A. Saunders’ Pearl Set Brooch, 9et. Gold,
25/-
, Saunders" 9ct. Gold
Football Medal, 30/-
15ct., £2/15/-
A Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Circle Brooch, set
Pearls, 10/G.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 George Street (Opposite Railway Station), Sydney.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Circle Brooch, set
Pearls and Aqua-
marine, 35/«
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold
Square and Compass
Pendant, 12/6.
15ct„ 20/-
Standard-Waygood-Hercules, Ltd. (good-
will, £15,000 to start with) :
Towards
Jlar., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1910. . £11,078 121 p.c. = £5,750 £5,328 £9,672
Premiums on new shares. . 5,825 3,847
Reserves.
1911.. 17,274 121 p.c. = 10,080 7,194 3,347
Premiums on new shares. . 6,675 10,022
1912.. 19,970 20 p.c. = 19,345 625 10,647
1913.. 21,372 121 „ ~ 14,062 7,310 17,957
Unexplained additions to reserves 1,969 19,926
1914.. 35,725 121 p.c. = 19,547 16,178 36,104
1915.. 23,215 121 „ „ 19,547 3,668 39,772
Written off book debts and securities, £9286 30,486
1916.. 6,152 10 p.c. = 15,638 21 000
1917.. 16,268 10 „ „ 16,888 20,380
1918.. 16,925 10 „ ~ 16,888 37 20,417
1919.. 16,993 10 „ „ 16,888 105 20,522
1920.. 46,238 10 „ „ 21,600]
Special div. (10 p.c) to pur- ] 3,038 23,560
chase bonus shares, £21,600 J
This is about the last that will be heard of
Standard-Waygood-Uercules, Ltd., for share-
holders have agreed to the old name-plate
being replaced by a new one: English Electric
Co. of Australia, Ltd. Some time ago
the directors considered it advisable to link
up with one of the big English cos. which had
“developed and proved designs,” but when
they set out to negotiate they discovered that
their choice, Dick, Kerr and Co., was joining
Coventry Ordnance Works, Ltd., Siemens
Bros., Ltd., and Willans and Robinson in a
five millions amalgamation to be known as
the English Electric Co., Ltd. Arrange-
ments were finally made for S.-W.-H. to
become the Australian end of this huge
business, and for the rights and agencies
and also the title of the English concern the
local crowd is to allot the English Electric
100,000 fully-paid ordinaries, also giving it
right to take up a further 100,000 ordinaries
at a premium of ss. per share. In the event
of liquidation the former shares are en-
titled to only 10 p.c. of net assets, and since
after payment of the latest dividend net
assets approximated £241,000, S.-W.-H. share-
holders stand to lose £24,100 to the English
Electric should the shutters go up. If the
English co. applies for the additional 100,000
ordinaries the goodwill shares would on the
same basis be entitled to about £36,600. but
the £25,000 received in premiums would be
some set-off against that. Incidentally, the
100,000 shares handed to the English co. are
to receive “10 p.c. of the net profit available
for distribution.” On the basis of last year’s
profits they would thus have had a div. at
the rate of slightly over 4i p.c. The
arrangement by which the “A” ordinaries’
rate of div. is unrestricted is the weak
feature. For a time, anyhow, most of the
divs. they receive will be derived not from
the earnings from the rights and agencies
which the English concern puts into the lap
of the Australian co., but mostly from what
the old S.-W.-H. capital earns. If the
English crowd were backing the local enter-
prise with considerable cash from the outset
the bite might be viewed in another light.
Further, the more capital the local people
put into the business the greater the feast
they will provide for these “A” ordinaries,
yet this extra capital may be put into side-
lines in which the “rights” acquired from the
English co. would not be any assistance.
Still, before these shares can get 10 p.c.,
profits of £lOO,OOO p.a. will have to show up,
and that is looking ahead some distance.
The English Electric of Australia, to give
the local concern its new title, will in con-
sequence of the £lOO,OOO paid in shares to
the overseas co., begin its career with that
amount of goodwill showing in its balance-
sheet. But since it brings £23,560 of visible
reserves from the old business, it will appa-
rently commence with a deficit of £76,440 —
the amount of capital not represented
by tangible assets —unless there is a writing-
up of assets. In pre-war days the old co. was
doing very well, but for the four years to
1919 the 10 p.c. divs. distributed were not
earned, unless the accounts made over-large
provision for contingencies. The very big
improvement in the past year’s profits suggests
that something of this sort may have occurred,
for apparently none of it was due to the
absorption of the G. Weymouth Pty., which is
still being run as a separate concern, and will
not balance until June 30 next. Certainly the
directors say that trading conditions were
particularly favorable, that there was a “full
order book,” and that excellent profits were
made on imported machinery. The manu-
facturing side of the business evidently was
not very profitable, judging by the talk of
the “difficulties” of ascending costs. How-
ever, disclosed profits depend entirely on the
valuations put on stock, etc., and prices have
appreciated to such an extent that perhaps
portion of the record profits may have been
due to the inclusion of some of the assets at
something nearer their appreciated values.
During the year 47,121 shares were issued
and fully paid to acquire a 22-25th interest
(£35,000) in the G. Weymouth Pty., and
towards the close of the term £lOB,OOO of
10-year 6 p.c. convertible debentures were
issued. But the latter amount was held in
trust and did not show up in the balance-
sheet. At March 31 the £215,960 of paid
capital and £66,759 of undivided profits were
represented by property and plant £69,592,
stock and work in progress £113,069. book
debts £29.998, and cash and investments
£99,760. with £29,699 owing to sundry credi-
tors. The amalgamation with the English
concern and the new funds got in to finance
the Concord works will, of course, effect big
changes in the co.’s next accounts. Pros-
pects depend a good deal on the management’s
capacity to make the most of the admittedly
fine opportunities provided by having the
backing of so influential a combine as the
English Electric. Since the co. is also going
in extensively for local manufacture much
also depends on labor giving it a chance.
* * * *
Choiseul Plantations, Ltd. —This co. is
in its 10th year, and has now commenced
production, the 1913 and 1914 plantings hav-
ing come into bearing last year and given
60 tons copra. The tide has thus turned.
These plantation enterprises swallow a lot
of cash in their earlier years and give nothing
in return, shareholders having to wait
patiently and hope for the best. At Nov.
30 last, to which date the latest accounts
were made up. £lOl,OBO had been put into
the co., £93,624 of which had been spent on
acquiring and developing five estates, and the
rest had gone in administration exes, and
on plant, stores, etc. On four of the
estates development work has been prac-
tically completed, about 6300 acres appa-
rently now being under cultivation. A year
or so ago 1639 acres adjoining the co.’s
principal estate were acquired, and 400 acres
have already been cleared. The co. has thus
now overcome most of its initial difficulties,
and some of them were unusually disturb-
ing. The areas are in the old German Solo-
mons, and during the early war years the
co.’s titles were in doubt. Also, it has had
labor difficulties, but with most of the plant-
ing done a big labor team is no longer neces-
sary. The future depends on the co.’s luck
in escaping cyclonic and other disasters and
also on the copra market. Since the con-
cern is in the Burns-Philp stable, it can be
taken for granted that the management will
be able to take full advantage of market
opportunities.
* * * *
The co. which took over the Sardine Tin,
Ewan (N.Q.), has put through its first
crushing: 129 tons for 384 tons black tin
worth £7600. The vendors, who sold for
£15,000 cash and 10,000 fully-paid £1 shares,
had previously got out 179 tons for 62 tons
concentrates worth £18,637. Charters
Towers has become deeply interested in the
field, and its old Brilliant Extended is turn-
ing its attention from gold to the Salmon,
which is south of the Sardine. Other Towers
syndicates are out to catch adjacent fish.
A mile or so away, on Oakey Creek, is the
Shrimp, on which four shafts are said to
show good tin; 30ft. down in one shaft a
crosscut is declared to have proved a 16ft.
body which has given 16 p.c. crushings. The
Mackerel, next door, is showing some fair-
grade stuff. The Terrible Whale, run by
the Shrimp crowd, and midway between the
Oakey Creek shows and the Sardine, is in
low-grade material.
* * * , *
Minina costs continue to soar, so, despite
the gold premium, many of the Common-
wealth’s low-grade shows are leading a pre-
carious existence. The latest wages award
in North Queensland meant an increase of
2s. per day all round at the Oaks; but for-
tunately that show lately installed an addi-
tional shd. of stamps to try to reduce exes.,
and it may be able to s*tand up against the
increase. For the past two months 1270
tons gave 1420 z. smelted gold.
* * * »
The Government geologist of South Aus.
has been giving special attention to the
brown-coal deposit at Moorlands, in .the
Mallee country near the Adelaide-Melbourne
line. As he says, at present prices of real
coal the importance of “any source whatso-
ever of fuel that can be utilised for the gen-
eration of heat and power” is greater than
ever before in S.A.’s history. A long report
ends by recommending systematic prospect-
ing, with careful experiments in special fur-
naces :—■
In any test of this fuel in a plant that has been
designed for fuel of another type, such as high-
grade bituminous coal, the results cannot be expected
to be as satisfactory as if they were being tested in
a plant designed specially for dealing with lignite.
So far as can now be ascertained, the quality is not
high, but judgment as to the potentialities of the
deposit should be suspended until more data are
available. There is much to be done before the
deposit can be said to have been prospected. The
activity now being displayed gives promise of the
early accumulation of data that will determine the
importance of the field.
* * * *
Continuous operations are the rule now at
Launceston lead-sulphate works, crude ore
coming forward from Northampton (W.A.)
at the rate of about 100 tons per month. To
the discredit of Tasmanian railroads the ore
from Westralia is landed in Launceston just
50 p.c. cheaper than similar ore can be sent
from neighboring Zeehan. It is hoped to
obtain lead ore from Swansea and other
mines by making a small allowance for the
silver content lost in manufacture. Opera-
tions are also to be resumed at the Gran-
ville, in the North Pieman district, where a
lode 50ft. wide has assayed 9.4 p.c. lead,
1.7 p.c. zinc and 14dwt. silver. The lead-
sulphate produced at Launceston is of good
quality, and is finding a ready sale.
* * * *
The Lisle goldfield (Tas.) continues to
baffle. Only one concern of any size now'
operates—the Lisle Hydraulic Gold, which
last reported a yield of 5<300z. from
58,314yd5. The diggings were very rich, and
have outputted to-date almost 15 tons gold;
but all endeavors to discover the pay-rock
in lode form have been abortive.
* * * *
If E. R. Stanley, Government geologist
of Papua, is any judge our northern colony
will one day bulk largely as a source of
water-power. He estimates that there are
10,000,000h.p. available in Papua alone,
and anything from 7,000,000h.p. to
10,000,000h.p. in what used to be German
New Guinea.
* * * *
“Nor’-West”: That paragraph (B.
l/4/’2O) referring to the lack of encourage-
ment given to the genuine prospector in
N. S. Wales sounds the right note. The
so-called “aid” granted to prospectors re-
quires revision. The miner, w'hen applying
for help, is at the mercy of a mines inspec-
tor, who is chiefly concerned about the
safety of the employees, and probably has
little knowledge of practical mining; and
seeing that he can’t be proved wrong if
nothing is done, he has a holy horror of
over-estimating anything. It is often not
altogether the Minister’s fault if insufficient
aid is granted, as he apparently is guided
wholly by the inspector’s report, and the
miner is practically compelled to apply for
the amount that that official indicates
as a fair allowance. A staff of mine inspec-
tors, appointed because of a knowledge of
geology and practical mining, and instructed
to regard the genuine prospector and pioneer
as a person to be encouraged and not treated
as if he was trying “to get at” the Gov-
ernment, would do much towards opening
new mines and maintaining the State’s
mineral production.


'Ty/7'’VV.r;:v-;.y.;' ;;
TO
H <' I iVl'l
aaeaooooOOOOOOOOOO
o
m.
aooooci
0
ft=9\
o
©
%
o
Sr)
o
lpfl^C=QC=fl
o
o 4
M
o
m
\
■■■■:■:'
mm
''
m
mm
I pip ||p! |
!✓ # / Z
I
»
k
I
P**4*u
S
Cm
i
#
rv r -i
/3
L 1
■
IAL&J
S&aEti
mlm**
The steel made from Australian
ores at the Newcastle Steel
Works is equal to the finest
made in any part of the world.
Above illustration shows, in cross section, some of the products made at Newcastle.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS' FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
á
«S!
Hotel
TARIFF
r 12'- pep Day
6'6 Bed& Bneakfash
C.R.Kenr
Proprietor*
.45 swanshjn SV. j
A Melbourne f
King Geqrge IV
IMII m WHISKY
THE TOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA '
BARNES - LINSEED OIL
“Mimosa”: The practice of putting a stick
across the billy to prevent the contents from getting
smoked advertises the amateur bushman. The idea
comes from the bad old days. If a traveller rode
on to the camp the first thing he would be invited
to inspect was the billy. If the campers were “on
the cross,” i.e., not quite on the square, he found
two sticks crossed on top of the billy. If they were
on the level or square he found two sticks placed
parallel. If the new arrival happened to be on the
cross himself and found that the sticks indicated
that the campers were on the square, he immedi-
ately crossed the sticks, drank the tea and hopped
it along the track. Those were honorable days.
» * # *
“Wart”: Contrary to the usual opinion, I
find that a number of birds sing better during the
autumn and winter than during the spring and sum-
mer. A pair of the grey butcher family have taken
a lease of my garden. Now, during the summer
their vocal outbursts were mostly a cheerful clatter,
but since the cold weather set in their voices are
much more musical. One starts off with, “Pot o’
beer, pot o’ beer, pot o’ beer! You’ll have one
with me, boy! You’ll have one with me, boy!
You’ll have one with me, boy, boy, boy!” Then
the other joins in with a deeper voice, apparently
contradicting the ribald one, but always keeping in
harmony: “Pot o’ water, pot o’ water, pot o’ water,
water, water!” is how I interpret the reproof.
Upon that they go off in a series of chuckles at the
joke. They are quite tame, and will come and sit
on the verandah-rail when I am close by and look
at me wonderingly, as much as to say: “Poor thing,
can’t you do anything better than work?” The
“white eyes” do not sing at all during the warm
weather, but now they strike up quite a pleasing
little tune. The “grey-tail” and “olive-whistler”
and the “whistling-dicks” always sing well, and in
this the colder weather they are in extra-good voice.
* * * *
“C. Coral” : The discolored crew of a
pearling lugger coming down through the Torres
Strait the other da/ got a very sudden shock off
Three Sisters Islands. They sailed into a rain
squall, in the middle of which was a waterspout,
and, before the “boys” had time to realise what
had occurred, their ship turned turtle and sank.
Anybody taken a liberty with a waterspout in the
waters of the Strait?
* * # »
“Terry”: We were coming up from Manly
in a motor-boat. When crossing the heads we sighted
a black knob in the water and we took it to be a
seal. However, it did not submarine, as anticipated,
so we steered over and
found it to be a fine
porker. We hauled it
on board after much
difficulty and lashed it
down for’ard. On arri-
val at the boatshed at
Rushcutters Bay we
were in a quandary as
to the disposal of the
beast, till the pro-
prietor of the shed sug-
gested a well-known
firm in Market-street
as a likely purchaser.
When their representa-
tive arrived on the
scene we had visions
of a fiver till he ex-
plained that the ani-
mal belonged to the
firm and had gone
overboard off a North
Coast boat that morn-
ing. We cursed the
boatshed proprietor
who had struck that particular firm and‘got 10s
reward.
* * * *
“Plain Jane”: According to “Pick” (B.
“0/3/ 20) the yarns about abnormal wool shorn from
long-unpenned sheep are bosh.” Please send him
the enclosed illustrations of long-lost sheep. The
first “stop out,” a six-year-old wether, was found in
the Abercrombie hills, in the Crookwell (N.S.W.)
ground. He was very weak and as mad as a March
hare. The wool weighed 34flb. and was without a
break. The other sheep photographed were a 'selection
from a mixed lot of merinos and crossbreds that had
been wandering in the hills near Bethungra for four
yeais. The date was fixed by their earmarks. These
sheep were in good condition. One crossbred fleece
was 20 inches long and weighed 741 b. Strange to say,
the carcase of this sheep also weighed 741 b. when
dressed, so he carried his weight in wool. The wool
from the merinos was also first-class.
* * * *
“Esses Emma”: “Hastings” recently
found two white eggs and one dark green in a clutch.
I can give examples of similar occurrences in the
case of the various tits, the nest containing a green
egg as well as the usual white or speckled ones. But
the green one belonged to the bronze cuckoo, and
I think that the same can be said of “Hastings’s”
dark-green egg. I have found the nest of a tomtit
couple to contain a cuckoo’s egg among the others
year after year, and the nest was built in the same
ti-tree each time. The popular theory that the cup-
shaped top-storey of a tit’s nest is provided for the
convenience of cuckoos was thus blown out, for the
intruder’s egg was in the bedroom down below each
time. Another explanation of the peculiar structure
is that the top nest is used as second bedroom by the
male. To me this would appear to be the more feas-
ible explanation, for I have noticed that the apart-
ment has certainly been occupied by someone.
“Pick’': “Jim Carew” (B. 8/4/’2O) wants
to know who is the hero of Paterson’s “Man from
Snowy River.” Well, almost every settlement on
the sunset side of the Monaro tableland (N.S.W.)
claims him, but if Jim takes a plebiscite of resi-
RACEY, EH?
S ALESWOMAN: “Guaranteed fast colors and, beautiful finish, Madame?"
AMATEUR SPORT (absent mindedly) : "Yes, I suppose I lose by half a length and buy the
bloomin' thing us usual!"
dents along the valley of the Snowy he will find
that they will plump for Jack Ward, otherwise
llellfire Jack, a one-time daring bushrider from
Timbery range. The exploit which the snowies
claim as the groundwork of “Banjo’s” poem was
Ward's half-day pursuit of a brumby mob in Bay-
liss Glen and over the Bungarby mountains that
flank the river with precipitous rocks. When nearly
beaten, Ward, as a last desperate resource, slid his
stockhorse over a half-acre of slippery, shelving
granite to head the flying mob plainwards, and when
he eventually yarded them both his stirrups were
gone, torn off by the timber on his journey.
* * * *
“Gouger”: Most abos. up north have their
tribal dentist, and this is how he goes to work.
The patient is sprawled on his back, mouth open.
The toothsmith, after much professional etiquette in
examining the disturbing molar, jambs a short
hardwood stick lightly against the tooth, whacks
the other end of the timber with a stone, and out
goes the tooth.
THE POINT OF VIEW.
ONE: “Bai Jove, what extraordinary charac-
ters one meets out hack!”
TO'THER: “’ Struth, what funny blokes you
run into when you come near town!”
“C.M.D.”: Several abo. zoologists have
lately described “cat ’possums,” but seem to have
either met Some kind of “native cat” or else a freak
domestic cat. It is sure that what they saw are not
hybrids. The animals are too divergent in habits to
be likely to One is a vegetarian and one a
carnivore, and even if they did mate there could not
possibly be any produce from the union. Hybrids
can only be produced between animals belonging to
the same genus, and even then are sterile ( e.g .,
the mule). The cat and the ’possum belong not
only to different genera, but to different sub-
classes. Ask any zoologist whether the Tasmanian
wolf would mate with a dog. Yet even this is
more likely, since the animals are of similar habits
and appearance.
* * * *
“Jas S.” : In the “good old days” in Ger-
man New Guinea the cultivation of native foods by the
planters was neglected in favor of cheap and handy
rice, for which the natives have acquired a taste;
but owing to shipping troubles, cocoanuts, wars,
etc., the Chinese diet is scarce. The British Admin-
istration set out to cultivate taro and l kow-kow for
their Kanaka laborers; but the Germans seem to
have shown us a point. My police-sergeant wanted
permission to arrest two boys employed by the
German New Guinea Co.' for speaking in terms of
ridicule of the food supplied by the Government.
He explained himself: “Two feller boy belong com-
pany, he talk all time no good along kaikai [food]
belong English.” (Mark the word “English.”) “Kai-
kai belong English, kow-kow [sweet potatoes] thafs
all, 1 tink more better all boy he like work along
German more better. German he got rice plenty-feller
he stop. Two feller day along week he givem rice.
English he no got.” I had a little talk with the
two feller boy and asked them not to do it again.
Now, did the boys reason the matter out in their
ebony heads, or was there a prompter?
“Dolphin”: A good skeleton of the long-
since extinct big marsupial, the Nototherium Mit-
chelli, which Sir Richard Owen reconstructed from
a few stray bones, has been dug up at the Mow-
bray Swamp, near Smithton (Tas.). This is a dis-
tinct species from the already well-known N. Tas-
manicum, of which specimens have previously been
dug out in this marshy district. Though the bones
had probably been in the mud well over 20,000
years it is alleged by one observer that there was
still a small bit of flesh in a cavity of the skull.
The nototherium was a big, heavy, vegetable-feeding
animal, rather like a cross between the wombat
and the South American tapir, but vastly larger than
the wombat. Remains of it have been found in
Central Australia and elsewhere, as well as in the
Speck.
(Continued on page 26.)
BYGONE BELLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He sits where trellised roses climb,
An old man frail and fond,
And looks across grey leagues of time,
And talks of things beyond.
The days are sped when he was strong,
And glad of heart and mind,
And life was fair on Billabong,
And careless as the wind.
Then love was his, such love as life
Sees once, if it be blest;
He had a wife, the sweetest wife *
In all the glowing West.
He tells of her, and somehow tears
Seem near, he sighs so low ;
But she is dead these years and years,
And—“ God be with her so!”
How short her day, his day how long!
What ills the Fates allow!
The bullock-bells of Billabong,
How faint they echo now!
How faint upon his brow the breath
Of morning on the plain,
When neck and neck with horseman Death
He galloped free of rein 1
Of wild-wind speed on track and course
He speaks, aglow with pride;
He had a horse, the swiftest horse
In all the countryside.
He tells of him, and somehow tears
Seem near, he sighs so low;
But he is dead these years and years,
And “God be with him so!”
A PRINCELY VIST!' TO THE
PAW-PAWS.
‘The Prince, who wore spats, a bowler hat and
a white vest, was enthusiastically received. His
conquering smile won all beholders.”—From, the
social columns of the Paw Paw Times.
Strong horse! Death proved himself more
strong—
What matters when or how?
The bullock-bells of Billabong,
How faint they echo now!
But Pate, not always grim was Fate,
But kind, at times, and bland ;
He had a mate, the truest mate,
In all the Young Man's Land.
He tells of him, and somehow tears
Seem near, he sighs so low ;
But he is dead these years and years,
And “God be with him so!”
True mate, with hand-grip warm and sti'oi, o ,
Brave eyes and kindly brow!
The bullock-bells of Billabong,
How faint they echo now!
He sits where trellised roses climb,
An old man, frail and fond,
And looks across grey leagues of time,
And dreams of things beyond.
Within his eyes the lights are wan,
Around him shadows fall—
AVifc, mate and horse, they all are gone,
And “God be with them all!”
And yet he hears, while visions throng—
Dear dreams that fade and pass—
The bullock-bells of Billabong
Across the barley grass.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


â
When the late J. K. Stewart designed the Cooper “Little Wonder” Two-stand Shearing
and Crutching Plant for the Cooper factories 30 years ago, he prophesied this outfit in
the years to come would have a world-wide reputation. He showed wonderful fore-
sight in christening it the “Little Wonder.
To-day it is known throughout every land where sheep are grown.
ã
LITTLE
A wonderful combination of compactness, efficiency and quality. Contains
two complete Shearing Machines with Grinding Outfit and all extras, mounted
on a strong hand lorry, complete, ready for work. It is free from vibration,
gives the shearer unlimited room for work, and shears all classes of sheep
rapidly and efficiently.
The Cooper “Little Wonder” Plant has been flattered by many imitators, but
has never been equalled. For shearing flocks up to 3000 sheep or for crutch-
ing on large stations, it is the ideal machine.
PRICE COMPLETE,
including all extras.
Portable, as shown, £B4
Stationary, less lorry, £72
HI
Engine can also be used for pumping
water, cutting chaff, sawing wood, etc.
COOPER
ENGINEERING CO. LTD.,
134 Sussex Street, Sydney.
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Clark & Fauset, Ltd., BRISBANE. N.Z. Loan & M.A. Co., ROCKHAMPTON, TOWNSVILLE, HUGHENDEN.
Australasian Implement & H.F. Co., ADELAIDE. G. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co., PERTH.
Are You a
Lover of Music?
E3D
P
m,
ram
THERE are thousands of people who love music
but only lack of time and opportunity, prevented
them from becoming musicians, and to satisfy
their longing for music go to the concert hall and
opera—but are still unsatisfied,
ARE YOU ONE OF THESE
THEN CONSIDER WHAT THE
PLAYER PIANO CAN DO FOR YOU!
IT puts within your reach the boundless world of
music and enables you to interpret the greatest
musical works with all the charm and feeling
that the composers intended.
To enjoy a rare musical treat,
come in and let us play over
any music you may wish to
hear—or write for
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
and
PRICE LIST.
338 George St., Sydney.
BRISBANE . . LISMORE
TOOWOOMBA . . NEWCASTLE.
• •
We will exchange your present
Piano for a Player Piano, and
allow you its full value. You
can pay the balance on our
EASY TERMS.


illuminated
Addresses
»-* for th e
\Princb
/t’/so Invitations
Programs Menus £tf
Write to t'o)
TMDnscoopm
letterpress. Lithographic &
Offset Printers % Artists
BANK PLACE MELBOURNE
\rtCTOf)/a
WHO ARE SPECIALISTS IN ARTISTIC
Hill|oFFI clAt
Tt«PMOHt< m
7586
CA-C-
1 o/vorcr^:
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
| O'A-C- [~~| ~J> BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA—CoIIins House. Collins Street, Melbourne -
NEW SOUTH WALES—SB Pitt Street, Sydney
QUEENSLAND—CampbeII’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane
Phone Central 1995
Phone City 2677
Phone 2382
ā
fdgdfgf
dfgfdgf
æ
ǽ
II ! cap H
Free Lolly Recipes
Sent on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope for Free Trial of Our
WORLD’S WORKS RECIPES, per-
sonally collected. After trying them
we think you will want to
Learn the Lolly Trade
from our books, 1, 2 and 3, on terms.
Necessaries sent Free Carriage Paid.
R. CROAKER (Dept, l)
Universal Chambers,
325 Collins Street, Melbourne.
EST. 1899.
CALL AND SEE PUPILS’ WORK.
“Haragigi”: Pidgin- or “sandal-wood Eng-
lish,” is still the common form of speech in Papua.
God knows the origin of some of the weird corrup-
tions of English which are current throughout the
country. The homely sausage, for example, becomes
“banana b’long bullamakau”; and who would recog-
nise “tin-opener b’long bottle” as our old insepar-
able companion the corkscrew ? But it isn’t always
thus. I got a severe jar when I inquired of a Hula
boat-boy when he proposed going into Port Moresby.
I said, “What time you fella boy go sail-about ’long
Sporsmorbi?” He replied: “All being well, sir, we
expect to get away at 10 in the morning.” How was
I to know that he had been the victim of a school-
master whose time hung heavy on his hands ?
"Barcoo’’: Up far north the inland abo.
is even a more prolific artist than his coastal mate.
Along the hundreds of miles of the wall of the
Macdonnell tableland many caves have been cut in
the solid sandstone and granite rock by the streams
of ages. Numbers of these caves are almost inac-
cessible, but they are decorated with drawings in
charcoal and red ochre, usually representing Binghi
in the chase, in the act of knocking out the kan-
garoo with his nulla-nulla, or throwing the boomerang
or spear. Also birds, fish and animals are depicted,
as well as grotesque figures of man and beast. 1
came across a Macdonnell-range binghi known as
“Silver” on account of his striking cleanliness. He
had migrated into Burketown on the Gulf (Q.).
Seeing him drawing figures with charcoal a lady gave
him a box of crayons. Silver was in the seventh
heaven, and set to work caricaturing every person
in the hamlet. Later he became possessed of a box
of water-colors, and it was remarkable the decent
landscapes the untutored abo. painted.
“Kitty Kitty”: IIow’s this for Australian
determination and pluck? About eight miles from
Nowendoc (N.S.W.) is a tunnel almost 300ft. long
cut into a mountain. This is an eternal monument
to Harry Whitton, an old prospector who, some 25
years ago, burrowed away in the hope of finding
a gold vein which he was certain ran through the
hill. Digging one day and consolidating walls and
roof the next, he worked week in and week out
for seven years without success. He was unassisted
in his prodigious task, and his only tools were a
pick, shovel, axe and wheelbarrow. All the timber
used for lining he shouldered to the tunnel, often
a distance of two miles. The only time he left the
i°b was when he made an occasional trip to the
Cooplacurrepa station for rations. Old age at last
compelled him to relinquish the task, although right
to his end he was confident of the wealth that would
have been his had he been able to go on with the
job.
# * * *
“Skinny”: Where I am in Central Queens-
land there is a full-blooded aboriginal who is as
white as any Englishman. His hair is straw-,
colored and curly, and his eyes a pinkish color. He
is a well-educated lad, and unusually intelligent.
“Bill R.”: “FY7” announces (B. 8/4/’20)
that our quail migrate from Northern Siberia. Isn’t
he confounding quail with the green-shanks and
various other kinds of snipe? The quail is an Aus-
tralian from egg-crack to gun-crack, and rarely
ANSWER A FOOL BY HIS FOLLY.
“What are you doing with little Peter—
washing him?"
“No, darling—merely immersing him to see
if he has a puncture."
flies further than two
or three hundred yards
without alighting.
Whilst harvesting on
Monaro (N.S.W.) last
summer I saw hun-
dreds of quail mam-
mas leading their tiny
chicks from the falling
crops. The broods
often numbered a
dozen.
“Billy B.”: The inebriated person
emptied himself into the barber’s chair and inti-
mated that he wanted a haircut. “Short?” asked the
man with the scissors. “N-hic-no,” gurgled the
holiday-maker; “long with-hie-a dasher lemonade!”
“Budgerygar”: “Pongo” (B. 25/3/’2O)
snorts at my narrative of Larsen’s feat of putting up
417 posts in a day. Well, I’ll give him something
better, and if he does not believe me, let him write
to W. Hazlitt, manager of Milo, for facts of the
A KNOCK-OUT.
“Got Some terrible news for yer, Bill. The
cost of living's gone up another penny
a glass."
case. At AmbathaUa, Charleville district (W.Q.),
some years ago, Alt' Parsons, a well-known
fencer about those parts, put in and rammed the
earth home on 505 posts in one day. The country
was sandy, and there was no need to use the bar.
Depth of holes, 18in. The posts of course were
all laid along the line.
* * * *
“The Deacon” : I’m inclined to think that
“Jim Carew” (B. 8/5/'20) is correct in introducing
old George Hedger as the Man from Snowy River in
"Banjo’s” poem. George was a neighbor of mine
for years, and the only time I saw him raise Cain
was when his wife read to him from a newspaper a
yarn that the late Larry Harnett had a claim to the
title. The evidence, circumstantial and otherwise,
that Hedger brought, forward convinced me that he
is the one and only hero of the dashing bit of verse.
* * * *
“Dr. Nil”: Many years ago I read Mark
Twain’s remarks upon the ant, in “The Tramp
Abroad.” Since then I have spent much time in
making observations of my own upon the same sub-
ject. I found that everything Mark said was
strictly accurate. But
what puzzled me was
that I seemed to have
in my mind some
human prototype of
the insect in question,
yet I could not place
him. After 40 years
of careful thought I
was obliged to aban-
don the riddle as in-
soluble. Imagine my
joy, then, when this
morning the solution
splashed across my
brain ! The importer!
The person who lugs
things out of his own
front door and hauls
them all over the gar-
den, up and down
grass-stems and in and
out of holes, and then,
hours and days and
weeks and months
later, dumps them
down at his own back
door, finally going off
to look for something
else to hump. The only difference between the types
seems to be that the ant does it for love and the
importer does it for money.
* * * *
“Sassafras”: If “D.J.” (B. 8/4/’20) is
still cursed with cockroaches, all he has to do is to
mix one pint kerosene and one egg-cup full of sheep-
dip, procure a small syringe from the chest, apply
to the haunts of the pests twice weekly for three
weeks, and then there won’t be a ’roach on the
premises.
“Two Seas” : The only industry I’ve struck
that hasn’t got the profiteering disease is Brother
Binghi’s. While I was sunning myself at the pub
door the other morning he sidled up to me on bare,
splodgy feet and whispered behind his hand: “You
let me say somping, boss?” I laughed: “You want
to say, ‘Gib it ickipenee,’ eh?” He looked cautiously
around and chuckled: “You wrong, boss v I bin
gcin’ say, ‘You gib it ickle trippence.’ ” Then
he went off like a kookaburra. His happy laugh
in a dry land was well worth “trippence.” Few of
us could have made a noise like it for a quid.
* * * *
“Silas”: Plum was a smart young Binghi
practically bred on Kerk’s run. He knew English
pretty well, could spell out a word
or two and sign his own name, and
he was the best horseman in the
cattle country beyond Cloudcap.
But this was his first trip to town,
whither he had accompanied the
boss, who was buying horses and
a motor. The thing that perplexed
Plum most at the hotel was the
telephone. He was very nervous
about it, but at the same time
mighty curious. One day he sum-
moned up courage to face the
“debil-debil” he suspected of being
at the back of the whole business,
and had a talk into the receiver.
Evidently his methods irritated
someone at the other end, and he
got a blast that induced him to
throw the thing aside. Plum was
a bit of a boxer among his other
accomplishments, and fancied him-
self “all same white pfeller,” and
the insult he had received rankled.
That afternoon Kerk had Plum out,
and was amazed to see his usually
docile black charge into a public
telephone-box, grapple an unoffend-
ing citizen who was sending a mes-
sage, and proceed to deal with him
in accordance with the custom of
the country 80 miles past Cloud-
clap. Kerk event »*’ly tore his
aborigine off the hapiess stranger,
but Plum still struggled. “Him the
pfeller talk-a belonga that thing 1’’ he cried. “My
plurry colonial, you orter bin hear what he callem
me this mornin’!”
* * * *
“P.E.D.”: Who was the man from Snowy
river in Paterson’s verse? Well, I met a native of
North-East Victoria, who told me that he helped to
carry him from Pearce’s Cooininee station to Corry-
ong (Vic.), that his name was Kiley and that he
died in 1908. But what does “Banjo” say?
* * * *
“Billy T.” : He was a true blue jackeroo,
his name was Teddy, and he was a cousin to the
squatter’s wife, despatched to Australia by a fond
and hopeful father to master the handling of
wide acres and innumerable brutes. He brought
a wardrobe with him about twice the size of the
stock at the Pitt Store, and his nails were mani-
cured to the point of perfection. “Ah suppose
Ah fellah can get something in the way of a
decent valet out heah?” he said to Anderson,
and Andy in sheer disgust deputed Ben the Black
to count Teddy’s shirts and shave his neck. Ben
the Black was so called because he
was blacker than any other black,
otherwise he was an ordinary enough
abo. in half a pair of dungaree-
trousers and two-thirds of a shirt.
The climax to the absurdity of Teddy
Molyneux as a pioneer of the Aus-
tralian wilds came on the third morn-
ing, when Edward appeared on the
side verandah calling to Ben, who
was squatted on the shady side of the storehouse
smoking out of the same pipe with three discolored
compatriots. “I say,” cried Teddy—“I say, you
fellahs there, has one of you got such a thing as a
twowser-stretcher ?”
* * * »
“Cow Coquette”: “Lake Nash’s” recent
description of “cat ’possums” tallies in most points
with some we had at Goodna (Q.) Mental Hospital
about 25 years ago. Some blue crossbred Siamese
cats went wild, and in spite of the local medico’s
scoffing at the possibility of the ’possum cross, their
offspring removed doubt. They were bluey-grey
with short forelegs and bushy dark tails, and had
the ’possum’s sharp nose. I don’t remember noticing
any pouch-development, but nearly all had pale-blue
eyes which blinked horribly in daylight. They pre-
ferred to walk along fence-tops rather than the
ground. Those that we succeeded in taming died
from fits when about full-grown.
* * * *
“McNorth”: They were Papuan beach
tribes. It appeared that a few months before two
Boama people had been taken by crocodiles. It was
the first time for many years that such a thing had
happened on that part of the coast, and the village
was certain that the people of Molua, 10 miles
away, were the instigators, because one of the
Boama braves had previously stolen a Molua woman,
and, without doubt, the Molua sorcerer had sent the
crocodiles to even things up. So there were many
consultings of the wrinkled old men who wore strange
ornaments and lived secluded lives. 1 was anchored
in Molua Harbor when the big scene was staged.
As usual on that part of the coast the village was
built out in the water, the houses standing on high
piles and linked one to another by narrow gang-
ways. For days there had not been a breath of
wind. Then one night the sou’-easter came fanning
across the reef, blowing directly on to the shore
and the sea-end of the village street. Less than an
hour later the furthest-out house suddenly burst
into flames. The bone-dry palm-thatch shot out
yards-long flames, and soon the whole tropical Venice
was alight. In all directions yelling niggers dropped
overside into canoes tethered to the house-piles.
Some had time to grab the family jewels and the
cash-box, but most of the people just managed to
escape with their lives. The whole village was
destroyed. The Government* made inquiries, but
nothing definite could be proved. The Boama people
swore they knew nothing about the business, but the
Moluans still consider it highly suspicious that the
fire happened on the first night there had been any
wind for some time, and that it started in the house
furthest to windward. Probably something fresh
has happened to Boama by this time.
* * * *
‘‘Leo Lear”: Here’s my favorite method of
snapper fishing. Along this coast (S.AV. Vic.) there
are big stretches of sandy beach and long ocean
rollers where fishermen collect at sundown. Lines
are weighted with sinkers fit to brain a man. Bait
is a bit of rabbit or eel. With a mighty swing the
line is thrown out 30 or 40 yards into the breakers.
If the fish are “on” you’ll soon have a dozen any-
thing up to 41b. It is surprising what shallow
water the fish come into, 3ft. being deep enough to
catch the biggest. To break the monotony you often
haul out a shark, stingiaree or other large marine
fowl. Best of all, you can always go home when
you are full up and needn’t wait till the keenest
enthusiast in the boat drops his last worm overboard.
* * * *
“Iris”: There’s a tree belonging to the
Sudan that wouldn’t be amiss in Australia’s drought-
stricken areas. It grows in the Kordojan and Nuba
Mountain provinces, and is known locally as the
tebeldi or water-tree. It attains a height of 55ft.,
and has an enormous trunk up to a height of 25ft..
Above that mark the branches commence. The extra-
ordinary feature of the vegetable is the hollow trunk,
averaging about 16ft. in diameter, in which water
is stored. The liquid is obtained in the following
manner. A hole, about 2ft. across, is made at the
top of the reservoir, and a native enlarges and
improves the natural cavity until the wall remains
only a few inches thick. Then around the foot of
the tree the earth is scraped away to form a basin.
As soon as rain falls this becomes filled with wgter!
which is then poured from leather buckets into the
tree cavity. The wooden well is then sealed up with
mud or clay, and the supply kept for use in the
dry seasons. The water keeps sweet a long time, and
even after two years only shows a slight discoloration.
On the main routes the natives make a living by
selling the stored water to travellers, the rate being
one piastre for, roughly, two gallons. Many of
PLENTY OF
DAMAGES.
FARMER (to swaggie who has just been ran
down by a car) : “It's all right! I saw
it — you'll get damages."
SWAGGIE: "Damages!' You, fool, it's
repairs I'm wanting!”
the trees are owned by the Government, their number
and cubical capacity being registered. An instance
of their usefulness was witnessed in 1916 at Wad
Bunda, where the whole of the mobile column, con-
sisting of 800 camels (each drinking 10 to 13 gal-
lons), 60 horses and mules and 600 men were
watered from tebeldi trunks. The trees are not
used for water-storage only: the inhabitants make
from the bark strong ropes. In the rainy season the
tebeldi is covered with leaves that afford excellent
shade, an asset not to be despised in that part of
Africa. Its fruit is the shape of a large nut about
six inches long and two across, greenish-brown in
color. Inside the outer shell are 30 or 40 small
nuts clustered together and covered with a white
powder, bitter to the taste, with something of an
almond flavor. These are used during Ramadan by
the natives as a sort of cornflour; the pounded stuff
is mixed with water or kisera and boiled.


TES
**•l
NUMBER
LARGE SIZE
M
K
c
Ab.
So/
<r
'-s^-
e >>.
o
'V
<9
O <<
R
d
B
0
urac
rs
7
e
»
.Sofe.
SfrXfTZOlUrf \


mm.'imn L
\\i
\\i
\
\ \
\\
»<fss#si*
v>
-Sat*
V :
V/s
m
•'V.
a
IV?
l ‘oA
■v.
/•
/
IN
EVERY Drop of
“Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street, SYDNEY.
A Plain
Fact!
In these verses the refrain seems to arise
naturally out of the idea. Sometimes the
process is reversed. Poe, in “The Philo-
sophy of Composition,” took pains to ex-
plain how the mournful significance of the
word “Nevermore” prompted him to write
“The Raven.” His explanation of how he
came to give birth to his greatly over-
rated poem has been doubted by shocked
and unduly respectful critics, but the
explanation seems to me to be at least as
convincing as the poem itself, possibly
because, being a versifier of a mean order,
I have some knowledge of how vex - ses come
to be written, "which is more than can be
said by many pedantic critics whose know-
ledge of the trade has been gained from aix
examination of the goods as shown in the
shop window. There are few things more
natural than that a man with an ear for
the music of words should discover that a
line is singing somewhere within his head
and then pi’oceed to use it as the founda-
tion of a set of verses. Bearing this in
mind, it seems more than ever strange that
natural _ singers like Kendall and Victor
Haley did not make more use of the refrain.
Haley s verse especially is packed with lines
I am the sweetheart of the world —I am
Carissima, the Spring,” “The gi-eat pro-
cessional splendid dream of life is all I
wish to know,” “And softly over all is
drawn the quiet curtain of the grass,” “The
days go by! The days go by!”—which
might be used as beautiful song or ballad
burdens; yet when Daley deliberately
employed the refi’ain, as in “Sorrow go down
with the sun, I say!” the result was not
nearly as satisfactory as might have been
expected. All of which goes to emphasise
Ibe fact that, according to the way in
which it is handled, a refrain may be
either an annoying excrescence or a thing of
rare, beauty. In David McKee Wright Aus-
tralia has a singer who should be able to
invent ballads with burdens as beautiful as
some by Swinburne: but it has been left to
Bernard O’Dowd, who is more of a thinker
and less of a singer than many of his
poetic brethren, to provide what appeals
to me as the most tuneful refrain —“Aus-
tralia mavourneen, my heather, my rose” —•
attached to verse written in Australia of
recent years.
HARRSON OWEN.
Blood and Raw Spirits
The Tragedy of Macbeth, by William
Shakspeare (Clobe Theatre, London), is a
drama of sudden death in which an attempt
is jnade to harrow the feelings of the render
to the point of hysteria; and in an atmos-
phere of gloom and mystery full scope is
given to modern spiritualistic notions. The
author is not always intelligible, as, for
instance, in the first scene, where in 12 lines
of alleged rhyme not one comprehensible
idea is-evolved. Considered as verse, the
play is deficient in craftsmanship. Sentences
are turned inside out, squeezed and shorn
of very necessary verbs and articles in
order to make them fit the lines; yet the
scansion often remains so faulty that to
read the speeches as verse at all it is often
necessary to stress the syllables entirely
wrongly. Grammar, too, is given very scant
consideration by this young author when he
finds that it inconveniences him, as in the
shockingly bad line :
Words to the heat of deeds too cold breath gives.
But these are small matters compared with
others which cannot be allowed to pass un-
noticed in a serious review of the work. The
author’s taste, always questionable, goes at
times beyond all bounds. The scene in
which the murderer and his wife speak
of hurrying into their nightgowns in
order to be ready to receive the noble-
men of the Court, the exhibition of the
chief female actor in such a garment, the
obscene remarks of the porter at the gate
and many intimate references to matters
vilich do not as a rule appear in print in-
tended for the public eye, give to the whole
a sense of grossness and straining after
cheap sensation of the crudest kind which
no plea of realism can extenuate. But in-
deed the whole play is strangely crude, though
from crudities of a more allowable kind it
draws most of its strength. The actors
are kings, queens and nobles; but their feel-
ings are as raw, stark and uncompromising
as those of savages in an African jungle. In
the more important scenes they often speak
with a brutal directness which convinces if
it does not please; but from the strong meat
of these passages they pass to reveries and
long, sentimental vaporings which destroy
much of their effect. There is one absurd
scene in which the chief villain pursues an
imaginary dagger about the stage, making
ridiculous references to ancient deities, to
wolves and to Tarquin. To say that the
ghosts, witches and other supernatural beings
are well handled would be too much. They
certainly are striking and make a good
background for a sordid tale; but why should
they be employed to teach a lesson in his-
tory at great and wearisome length, and
why make them speak a meaningless jargon
of words at one moment and break into over-
elaborate and stately English the next?
The central movement of the tragedy is a
triumph of the obvious. Commonplace it
cannot be called, but always the characters
act exactly as the reader has decided before-
hand that they will act. There is no element
of surprise; though the author may make
some claim to daring in venturing to put so
many scenes of blood and horror into a
single play. Very bad construction is shown
in the final scenes, where the victors make
clumsy and uninteresting speeches after the
main action has closed.
Full of faults as this drama is. the work is
yet very remarkable and contains rich pro-
mise. There is none of the lightness and
grace of a Shaw or Wilde, none of the down-
right realism of a Galsworthy, none of the
glamor of Synge; yet there is an unmistak-
able something which these do not possess,
an ability to get to the very soul of the
reader and to hold the attention in spite of
absurdities, contradictions and extravagantly
dressed masquei’adings of the nearly com-
monplace. If Mr. Shakspeare will take the
trouble to master his medium of expression,
devote more attention to his choice of words
and phrases, mend his rather shocking taste
iu dealing with the intimacies of life, avoid
references to sex of almost an obstetric
nature when no question of sex is involved,
and study more closely the construction of
the drama thei'e should be a gi-eat future
for him. He seems to have “the root of the
matter” in him, but his present work is too
untamed and verbose, too raw and undisci-
plined to meet the requirements of the
thoughtful reader. An application of the
Gi - eek laws of time and place which governed
the great classical drama would do much
to remove the appearance of looseness and
uncertainty which now disfigures his work.
Of Punctuation
The old idea of punctuation was that of
fixity—law—the partitioning of a sentence
into its legal (i.e., strictly grammatical)
quotas. A sentence was, in reading, divided
with mathematical precision. Then educa-
tion spread, and punctuation as originally
conceived Went to the dogs, for Jack of the
State school was as good as his master
John of the University—which also was a
good thing.
To-day the rigid law of punctuation is as
often broken as obeyed. Commas and
parentheses, struggling for existence, drop
out, the commonsense of a usage-knowledge
of words taking their place. So much is
this so that verse-writers are more and more
using stops to mark quantitative pause, and
leaving its narrower use suspended in the
mind. The colon, once the rarest of marks,
is to-day one of the commonest; the comma
is spasmodically migratory, the dash
thatches unspoken meanings, and only the
terminal points remain as they were. Our
own C. J. Brennan is an example of what
is happening. He is so wisely parsimonious
of the comma that I well recollect a Caster-
ton woman once exclaiming, “How can he
have gone through the Universitv? He does
not know Punctuation !” While the remark
showed the value and true use of the
University in the common mind, the
obvious reply was, “It only shows that
even the University could not clamp him
down.” Mr Brennan's is the tribute to
commonsense in the reader. The late
Rupert Brooke “misused” the colon. His
was the intent to express the quantitative—
the pause after the explosion of emotion
carried by words, but not wholly contained
in them.
Is it not time that we revised the science
of punctuation? Is it to be for ever the
hide-bound son of a hide-bound custom? Or
are there no air-heights in structural litera-
ture?
MARY GILMORE.
More Minor Poets
There has been Red Page talk of minor
poets, of vers Hire and the Georgian Renais-
sance find its manifestations in London and
in Paris. P,ut New York perhaps tops the
score with minor poets, and nowhere is vers
hire taken more seriously. And that is the first
principle of the vers libre cult; one must take
oneself and one’s work seriously, be possessed
of an utter contempt for the laws which bind
the unenlightened who cleave to rule and
measure, and of a belief in the divine right
of free verse and the New Thought. Possibly
these things have not rooted here because
the casual Australian cannot be bothered
taking himself seriously, nor has he strange
illusions about himself. Neither does he
go around blowing hot air about his country
and his flag; he would rather fight for them
than talk of them. And in such things he
is fundamentally different from the average
citizen of the U.S., so that when he turns
poet his poetry is different. There is less
of it, but it is without question superior to
that made in the United States.
I once met 400 poets in one evening. It
was at the Poetry Club of New York. They
all wrote verse, and most had published a
volume. Many were exponents of free verse,
and .these and the adherents of the old estab-
lished form engaged in frantic dispute. Amy
Lowell, grand-daughter of James Russell
Lowell, led those who would tread the Poetic
Way free from all bonds. She is a lady of
comely face but outrageous girth, and is one
of the wittiest and most spontaneous of
speakers. ' Padraic Colum, the little, pale-
faced Irishman, waxed wroth at her claims,
alleging that free verse was not poetry but
rhetoric, quoting in evidence passages from
Scripture and Walter Pater’s description of
Mona Lisa, the Lady of the Smile. A slim,
large-eyed poetess thought that vers lilre
appealed strongly to the artistic sense because
the poet could make each line whatever
length he chose, and thus make such lovely
patterns on the page! Arthur Guiterman,
responsible for some of the best fooling in
American verse, smoothed down the discus-
sion by reciting his own rhymes about “The
Prophylactic Baby and the Antiseptic Bug,”
or perhaps it was the other way round, Anti-
septic Baby and Prophylactic Bug; anyway,
it was very smart.
It is in California, however, that the poet
may expand his ego to the limit. It is
difficult for many people to realise that the
dollar-hunting, efficiency-bitten Yanks are at
the same time looking for the gold that is not
marketable, the precious crock at the rain-
bow’s end. They believe in themselves but
are ready to accept and believe in others.
The San Franciscans and the people who
live in the towns about San Francisco Bay
at the foot of the smooth green hills have a
belief, odd enough to us, that they and their
country are like the Greeks of old and Greece.
San Francisco of the many hills is to them
another Athens. When Joachim Miller, poet
of the Sierras, died (and there is none so
good writing there now) his ashes were scat-
tered from an altar erected on one of his
beloved hilltops—the Greek hills as he called
them. Yet to the Australian eye the Greek-
est things in sight were the very unkempt
Greek fishermen who drew their living from
the bay.
A charming lady, a contemporary and
friend of Bret Harte, Miss Ina Coolbrith,
author of many graceful verses, was crowned
as Sappho might have been, with a laurel
wreath, and acclaimed Queen of Poetry. This
was in 1915, during the San Francisco Expo-
sition, and was accomplished with all pomp
and ceremony. Professor Ide Wheeler, Presi-
dent of the University of California, did
the crowning, and a United States Sena-
tor paid glowing tribute. Imagination can-
not picture such a scene in Sydney. Neither
could one picture our poets and artists liv-
ing together in harmony by one of our color-
ful bays, like the aesthetic colony at Carmel-
by-the-Sea. There among the pine trees
beyond the w T hite beach the cottages of the
artistic villagers are tucked away. No tram
or train is allowed to disturb the quiet.
Roads travel where they will. All is tran-
quil, and in this almost sacred hush the
visitor peers around hoping to glimpse that
rare bird, a poet in his native haunts. A dog-
cart appears driven by a man—that is, it
might be a man; one is doubtful. The
figure has short, crisply-curling hair, the silk
shirt is open at the brown throat, the hand
unoccupied with the reins holds a red rose,
the eyes are dreamy. The dog-cart passes.
It may be a man, but there is no doubt at
all that it is a poet. But a minor or major,
who shall say? Has anybody yet defined
whei-e the minor ends and the major begins?
MARJORIE QUINN.
A Satchel of Books
Mountain Mists is the monthly magazine
which the consumptive returned soldiers pro-
duce in their N.S.W. mountain home. It
is not printed in the ordinary way; but by
some method of multiplying typescript
enough copies to go round are issued at six-
pence a copy. Some of the matter which
the magazine contains is a little beyond the
outsider; but all of it is bright, and there is
real humor in the pages.
Aussie, as printed on the field for the
A.1.F., has been produced in a bound
volume by Tyrrells; price 6s. The small,
somewhat ragged production made moder-
ately good reading when the only other
reading matter was “Routine Orders” and
G.O.C.’s lectures on saluting. It didn't
pretend to be anything but nonsense to
amuse the troops. But the average citizen
is harder to amuse than the average Digger,
and some might wonder afterwards why
they spent the 6s. But quite a lot won’t.
Looking Forward , by Charles Frederick
Iligham (Nisbet and Co.). This is a plea
for the larger use of advertisement to make
the country what it ought to be. The writer,
a member of the House of Commons, has
apparently been encouraged in his mission
by the success of advertising campaigns dur-
ing the war:—
When the Admiralty begged the Ministry of Labor
to find men for the shipyards the latter reported that
none were available. Some advertising experts were
then asked to take the matter up, and in five days so
many shipyard workers were discovered that many
had to be sent home again until housing accommoda-
tion could be found. Later the same Department was
asked to find women as manageresses for the Army
and Navy canteens. The Ministry could find no such
woman, so advertisement was again resorted to. In
24 hours 700 were secured.
It is quite true that “if the Government can
use advertisement to get men into the armies,
it can use it with some measure of success
to find them a job on their return to civil
life.” Mothers might be taught how to make
the housekeeping money go further, and so
on. But when the author suggests that
Governments might use a Department of
Public Information “to supply trustworthy
material on which a sound judgment may be
formed on social and economic questions,”
this page wonders whether the Department
would give the same “trustworthy material”
under Fuller as under Storey, under Hughes
as under Senator Gardiner.
The Irish Dominion, by Colonel Pope-
Hennessy, D.S.O. (Nisbet, London), ex-
presses the modern attitude towards the
Irish question of a Catholic who is to all
intents and purposes an Englishman. For
example:— v
An Irish Republic is unattainable as a practical
proposition because it can only be brought about in
one of two ways-—(1) By the complete defeat of
Great Britain in a war which disrupts the British
Empire; (2) through a fundamental change in Great
Britain itself which puts power in the hands of the
proletariat.
There is surely a third contingency—that
the bulk of the English taxpayers may de-
cide that, Germany being disarmed, Ireland
is not worth holding at the present price.
That is to say, at the cost of an army of
CO,OOO men on a war footing, plus the world-
scandal created by the repressive measures
that every Army of Occupation is required
to employ. But if the author is wrong, he
has at least evidently tried to be right; and
that is the main thing, after all.
The Story of Australia for Boys and Girls,
by Joseph Bryant (Hodder and'Stoughton).
This book is excellently written, and gives
a good account of the history of our conti-
nent from first to last. The author has
taken the trouble to have some important
chapters read by experts ; and the result is
an accuracy rarely found in a volume of the
kind. The writing is simple and well within
the understanding of young readers. Eng-
lish boys and girls should be able to learn
a lot from it; and the Australian child
may glean from its pages much that the
average schoolteacher does not or cannot
tell. The illustrations are good.
An English translation of a novel (un-
dated) by Georges Clemenceau is a surprise
packet, and we are promised two or three
more during the next few months. The
story, called The Strongest, is a study in
heredity, and reminds one of Maria,
the daughter of the Marchesa Fagniani,
whose paternity was disputed by George
Selwyn and “Old Q,” the Duke of
Queensberry. Both left her a fortune, which
was snapped up, along with the girl, by the
third Marquis of Hertford. It is a toss-up
whether the girl in the novel. Claudia HarlA
will follow the guidance of her supposed
father. Dominic Harl£, a hard-headed paper-
manufacturer and bourgeois to the finger-tips,
or her real father, the ruined Marquis de
Puymaufray; but hard cash (Dominic’s)
and the prospect of a brilliant political mar-
riage win in the end. There is a lot of
padding, winch is probably culled from the
author’s political articles, and likewise
plenty of frills, flounces and furbelows. It
seems very likely that the salt of the novel
has been lost in translation.


Lookforthis Bottle!
-*)•
no. ••*«»»»••
vOi'v
3
V
©
In*.
\2
P#*ZE. HeOAl MEALIM SUHMHIION
Bl Ac K Friars DistilU
>\ Plymouth >
• oo,r Ac.,»»coATes '-“
DLvnOuTHt'L
Div
i-... 4
tNCLANO
You are sure of getting a
pure, mature medicinal
spirit of proved value
when you order
COATES’
Original Plymouth
DRY GIN.
Coates’ Dry Gin is a
q u a 1 i t y-p r o d u c t —the
purest gin in the world.
It is rich in juniper and of
rare flavor, refined to the
utmost degree by expert
distillation.
All good hotels, clubs,
wine and spirit stores, etc.
COOPER, NATHAN & CO., Sole Agents,
Sydney.
Inter-State Agents:
H. J. Langdon & Co., Melbourne.
Perkins & Co., 1/td., Brisbane.
Seppelt and Son, West Australia.
ADD YEARS TO
YOUR LIFE.
BUTTERLAC
is a SPECIALLY-PREPARED POWDERED FORM of
BUTTERMILK, containing the LACTIC BACILLUS which
PROFESSOR METCHNIKOFF (Pasteur Institute of Paris)
Discovered to be the
MOST RELIABLE REMEDY
for the
Treatment of all Troubles arising from GASTRIC and
INTESTINAL DISORDERS.
BUTTERLAC IS INVALUABLE FOR NERVE TROUBLES,
INDIGESTION, RHEUMATISM,
INSOMNIA, KIDNEY and LIVER
HEADACHES, DERANGEMENTS
and All Stomach Ailments.
BUTTERLAC IS FREE
FROM ANY DRUG.
BUTTERLAC can be taken by Adults, Children and Infants.
Butterlac is Sold in Tins, 2/6 and 4/6
ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Wholesale Distributors:
Victoria: DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
New South Wales: H. L. BUSSELL & CO., LTD., Meagher Street, Sydney.
Queensland: TAYLOR & COLLEDGE, Brisbane.
South Australia and Western Australia: ALFRED HARVEY & CO.,
Adelaide.
COMPARE IT WITH
OTHER PLANTS.
BATTERY 16 Cells, Capacity 180
Ampere Hours, on the 8-hour rate of
discharge (intermittent rating 288
Ampere Hours). GENERATOR 1500
Watts. AUTOMATIC CONTROL
PANEL. 3i H.P. 4-CYCUE KERO-
SENE ENGINE. Automatic fuel, Iced
and oiling system. Throttled Governed.
5^5
I
m
vC . f.
■
V'd'Xi
m
wm !
* •?
a
•5 i
4
Western - EkcTr/e
POWER & LIGHT
All over the world where electric light
stations do not reach, Western Electric Power
and Light is doing wonderful service in
giving country people the benefits of city
electric light and power. Every progressive
farmer wants electric light because it’s so
clean, quick and safe. Brilliant lights anywhere
just by pressing a switch. Then you can have an
electric fan, a washing-machine, iron, sewing-
machine, vacuum-cleaner, toaster and combined
cooker, all operated by electric power from this
outfit.
A Western Electric Utility Motor drives the separator, churn
and grindstone, and does other jobs like that. Then you can
operate the 3J-h.p. Kerosene Engine as a separate engine outfit
at any time for driving light machinery.
The world-wide popularity of Western Electric Power and
Light is due to its reliability and unusual capacity. The Bat-
tery is big and strong, with plenty of surplus electric current
for all the jobs mentioned above. The unlimited uses of Western
Electric Power and Light make it a money-earner, a profitable
investment for the comfort and contentment of everyone around
the farm. Write to nearest of the following for 20-page
Illustrated Booklet fully describing this plant.
WESTERN ELECTRIC CO. (Australia) LTD.
192 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY. 262 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
AGENTS: T. Tonks, Elizabeth Street, Brisbane; Newton McLaren Leic-li
Street, Adelaide; Medhurst Electric Co., 11 Argyle Street. Hobart; A. D
Riley & Co., Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z.; also at Christchurch
Auckland and Dunedin, N.Z.
'
i&A
W±
-
%
rnm t
m
fas
:a
H. 320.


“THERE’S MANY A SLIP
’TWIXT CUP AND LIP.”
Take no risks
with your
WOOL
when it reaches market.
Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
“RED RING”
RABBIT TRAPS
COMPLETE WITH PINS.
Better, lighter, stronger, and very much
cheaper than imported Traps, and, above all,
are
MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
And giving universal satisfaction amongst
Trappers.
If unable to obtain “RED RINGS” from your
Storekeeper, write direct to—Sales Agent:—
R. N. KIRK,
25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
á
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & "
CAMERON LIP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
" THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN."
Q
IT
JL
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Ice-Cold 72 hrs. Hot 24 hrs.
Made in various
size s and styles
from %-pint up.
Icy-Hot Bottles are
ideal for all climates
and are made for
hard usage.
Extra Protection is
ensured by a coiled
spring and pad under
bottle which absorbs
jolts and jars and
makes the bottle
practically unbreak-
able.
Absolutely
Sanitary,
because the
spring - tight
neck - fitting
p revents
leakage of liquid into the outer
case.
Tlic Name ICY-HOT clearly
stamped on the bottom of each
bottle is a guarantee of the
Standard of Perfection.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES.
Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
The ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.,
I .'<> West Second Street,
Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Icy-Hot Jar
for solidfood
or ice-cream .
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
1 *
1 I
i
i! ii
V
MADE
ITISH
Perfection
PINK RUBBER.
Australian
mio
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
(a-Z.
BRAND
Containing about
(99.9%
99.95% Metallic Zinc
guaranteed).
SPELTER
BHAS
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust —Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES—Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Accent *
R. NV KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Assent*
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brockman Buildings,
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Perth
i
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2}& inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £27/10/-
Correspondence invited.
D. 8 W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
Made>in
Australia
i
A New
and Cheaper
System of
BUILDING
re
Standardised System of Building
Triangular units fit together to form a variety of buildings,
triangular unit standardised: no riveting is necessary,
handled, easily erected, easily transported, and fireproof,
entirely in Australia by Gardner, Waern & Co.
Fullest particulars and prices on request from
MELBOURNE SVONEV BRISBANE ~1
MELBOURNE: 384 City Road.
SYDNEY. 325 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE. 367 Queen Street.
Showrooms: 369 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Each
Easily
Hade
K
i
paKffii
M
s
i
a
i
Men’* Stout 7/6
„ Light 6/-
Ladiea* - - 4/-
iSoles and Heels),
per act.
THIN Rubber plates, with raised studs,
J to be attached on top of ordinary soles and
heels, giving complete protection from wear.
Men's Stout 2/6
„ Light 2/-
Ladies' - - 1/3
(Heels only),
per pair.
MILITARY
SOLES AND HEELS
FROM ALL
BOOTMEN
make one pair of boots
last the time of three
Manufacturers —
PHILLIPS'
PA TENTS Ltd
London, Eng.
THEY impart smoothness to the tread,
give grip, and prevent slipping. Keep
feet dry in wet weather. Ideal for golf.
Fortify
your
Boots!
A* worn by
thousand* of
Au st r all an
Officers and
Men Overseas.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:—
N.S. WAI.ES AND QUEENSLAND, G WILLIAMSON, 46, Wentworth Avenue,
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA, 3. M. ROHAN, 262, Post Office Place, Melbourne.
S. & W. AUSTRALIA, C. M, RANSPORD, 22, Waymouth Street, Adelaide,
Sydney,
A MATTER OF BUSINESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘•Business people are wondering if the Prince will
dance with shop-girls here as he has done in other
places.” —Melbourne paper.
“I am a little shopgirl, sir,
And 18 years of age.
I have already dyed my hair —
This color is the rage.
And I have touched my cheeks with rose,
My lips with crimson too.
The Prince! What else do you suppose
A little girl can do
To catch his eye, and win his smile,
And, maybe, dance with him a while?
“I’ve manicured my linger nails,
And brightened up my eyes.
Of course you’ve heard the Prince of Wales
With maidens of my size
And lowly lot did not eschew
To waltz at public dances.
I pad my figure with a view
To bettering my chances
Of dancing with him when he has
A hesitation waltz or jazz.
“My dancing I have much improved—
You think me rather neat?”
“Child,” said the elder, deeply moved,
“Such loyalty is sweet.
It is to please j'our Prince j 7 ou gloss
Your charms, and that is kind.”
“Tain’t that,” the girl said ; “but our boss
Impressed it on my mind
The one Ted dances with will be
Worth twice her present salary!”
VICTORIA.
DIDO.
“Graeme”: Re Parliamentary bulls (B.
22/4/’20). It was in the Bananaland Leg.
Assembly in 1896 when drought remedies
were under discussion. Quoth John Leahy,
subsequently Minister for Railways: “The
best monument that can be erected nowadays
by any pastoral lessee to his own memory
is an artesian bore.”
“O.L.”: Why Australia should bother
with square or holed “nickels” is hard to
understand when the U.S. has used a circu-
lar, solid coin of the kind, without embar-
rassment to anybody, for ages past. To
make the coin rather larger than a sixpence
and noticeably thicker, and with a smooth
edge, should provide ample protection against
mistakes in giving change.
“Country Ped”: “Princitis” has many
forms, but the queerest comes from Bendigo.
Young Wales will be there only for a day;
nevertheless a citizens’ committee wrote to
the Government for a supply of medals to
be distributed amongst the children in com-
memoration of the visit. The Government
isn’t wasting money in that way, so the
Bendigo City Council decided to obtain 6000
baubles for the purpose. Very few children
still have the Peace medals presented by
the Federal Government last year. If the
Bendigo Council had any sense of the pro-
prieties it would have kept the money, or
else invested it in bursaries and scholarships
at the local High School for the orphans
of the city’s dead soldiers.
“Magpie”: “Forester” (B. l/4/’20) is
wrong in stating that mahogany is most
used in the manufacture of Australian
tobacco-pipes. Many good Gippsland tim-
bers are successfully used, kanuka being
about the best. This timber is close-grained
and smokes well when made into pipes, be-
sides taking an excellent polish. Red-gum
and red-beech are also used, the former
giving particularly good results, having all
the qualities, and almost the same appear-
ance, as best “briar.” One variety of red-
gum is used by the returned soldiers in Mel-
bourne for making their best-grade pipe, and
it is certainly an excellent wood. Meedle-
wood is also used extensively, and gives
good results when properly selected so that
the grain does not run straight with the
bowl.
Frank Fox. one time of Sydney, and inci-
dentally of The Bulletin and the Lone
Hand, now Major Fox, in charge of the
“Empire” Department of London Morning
Post, is in good form nowadays, in spite
of being permanently crippled as a result
of doing his bit in France. He is adding
about one book a year to the world's collec-
tion. “England,” “Peeps at the British
Empire,” “Ramparts of Empire,” etc., have
all made successful appearances, and his
“Italy,” with 64 full-page illustrations, each
a colored work of art by Amberto Pisa and
others, has run into its third edition. His
book on G.H.Q., very much the talk of Lon-
don just now, will bring him a fine cheque.
“Etaples”: “Murkah” (B. 22/4/’20) is
wrong in inferring that automatic type-
writer systems of telegraphy have not
proved a success. The three main systems—
Baudot (French), Murray (English) and
Western Electric (an American adaptation
of Murray’s patents)—are all successful, and
are largely used in France, Britain and
America. These systems, by means of a
distributor which gives each transmitter in
turn the sole use of the line for a short
period, enable four, eight or 12 messages to
be transmitted simultaneously, a great im-
provement on all previous systems in speed,
as each transmitter works at from 30 to 45
words per minute. The message to be
transmitted is punched, by an ordinary
typist, on a tape passing through an electric
typewriter similar to the “gell.” From
there it passes through a simple but very
ingenious little transmitter, which, when this
particular transmitter has use of the line,
passes it through to the distant station,
where it is picked out by the receiving typing
machine allotted to that section of the line,
and automatically typed on an ordinary tele-
graph form. All that remains for the clerk
in charge of the typewriter to do is to check
the message and send it along to the de-
livery room. Most of the large centres in
Britain and France are worked almost wholly
by the Baudot. The London-Manchester
wires are worked by Murray and Western
Electric. In fact, the only work left for
the 'Wheatstone is press work, which, under
the British system, can be more expeditiously
dealt with by Wheatstone. Both Baudot
and Murray are largely used in the Indian
Telegraphs, and the Western Union Co.
alone has over 300 Western Electric sets
in America. Murray, by the way, is a
Maoi ,: lander. and 20-odd vears ago was chief-
of-staff of the S. M. Herald.


FOR THOSE WHO MOTOR
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a Valuable Accessory.
WHETHER one motors for business or pleasure, either as a driver or passenger,
and be it car, motor-cycle or motor-boat, Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills will
be round a valuable accessory.
From a business point of view the motor to-day is a necessity, being the
most rapid, convenient method of transit. For pleasure it is popular because one
can have an outing and go sightseeing without exertion. But how often does one
hnd at the end of a day’s motoring that they have a splitting headache and perhaps
teel bilious, due partly to the had, bumpy roads, which have stirred up the liver, and
partly owing to the lack of sufficient exercise to keep the organs working smoothly.
It is strange how a keen motorist will instantly detect a slight fault in the
running of the machine, commence worrying, and set about correcting it, but yet
not bother about himself if his system is not in proper working order and do
nothing until a complete breakdown occurs. Asa matter of fact it is often because
one is liverish” that he becomes hasty and is not then in the right condition to
locate a mechanical defect in his car, and takes considerably more time than a
healthy placid driver.
The human system in many respects resembles a motor-car. Take the
carburetter, for instance. Man provides the petrol and Nature the air. To ensure
smooth running it is necessary that the petrol and air are in correct proportions, and
that no foreign matter works in to choke the feed pipes, otherwise trouble ensues
and the engine runs erratically, if it does not stop altogether.
In the case of the human system, when food is swallowed Nature provides
certain juices to convert such food to the correct consistency required to nourish the
body. If by any chance the tubes which convey these juices become blocked the juices
are foiced into other channels, upsetting the system; also the food ’ seizes” or clogs
constipation ensues. It is then that special treatment is required to remedy
this defect. In such cases Dr. Morse s Indian Root Pills are especially suitable. They
open the clogged-up works, purify the blood and once more the human mechanism
works smoothly and easily. Every motorist realises the serious injury that may be
caused by parts seizing from insufficient lubrication or jerky driving through irregular
mixture. It is exactly the same with the human body, whose organs should work
regularly all the time, otherwise it is subjected to similar types of racking and strain.
Upon retiring at night after a day s motoring Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills will be found of greatest benefit, and when
packing up for a motor trip be sure and include a bottle in
the bag.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are
as essential to health as petrol
and oil are to the motor-car.
Made in Australia.
m
mm
iSWfi.'S
|||§
h
7? - ■-■
g££s»
Idfepw.
£
l
r
m
w*
sss
SErajra
2£


-i*
c 7/ose
ofjuxite
Begin to Wear
Them !
Hose of Luxite excel
because of specialized
methods of knitting.
For mo re than 16
gears these Hose have
amazed the public bg
their durabilitg, and
theg are just as dur-
able to-dag as ever,
besides being more
beautiful.
If your dealer is unable
to supply you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
50 York Street :: SYDNEY.
WitlioibS
>
jams’ Luxury Sha-
ving Cream squeezed
on the face, or on your
brush quickly works up a big
thick cream-like lather,
which softens most stubborn
beards—holds its moisture
throughout the
shave, leaves the
skin soothed
and refreshed.
TF you prefer
Shaving
Soap in stick
form, use
Willi a ms’
Holder Top
Shaving
Stick. If you
use Cakes
Wi 1 liams ’
Shaving
Cakes for
the mug.
A full size 1 tube
of Luxury Sha-
ving Cream wi 1
be sent post free
from Wiiliams,
Box 98, G.P.0.,
Sydney, on re-
ceipt of 2/- in
stamps.
Sold by Chem-
ists everywhere
W.S
°o
Williams
Luxury
Shaving 1
Cream
The jB-wu. liams co]
ciastonbury. conn.'
/ WILLIAMS
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
If any illustration appearing in Tiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
â
EFFICIENT POWER FOR BIG PLANTS.
For Driving Electric D.C. Generators and Alternators in
Parallel.
For Flour Mills, Textile Machinery, Rolling Mills, Mines,
Pumping Plants.
UNI FLOW Steam Engines
make for low steam consumption, therefore economy, because no return of
steam. Only 35 main wearing parts. Requires minimum floor space and
attention. Forced lubrication fitted.
Oil consumption about l-sth pint per hour for 700-800 I.H.P. Engines.
Drives with fluctuating loads. All sizes, 120 to 1000 8.11. P.
British Australian
ENGINEERING Co. Ltd.
National Mutual Buildings, Cr. Collins 8 Queen Sts., Melbourne.
Write for
Catalogue
and Prices,
n
■MW
■Xh
m
~s>-m
y
m
ks>
turn
m
91
“ NATURE.”
By Sir Thomas Lawrence , P.R.A.
Health is the natural birthright of every child, and of every
man and woman, too —for what are men and women but grown-
up children, after all ? Regularity of habit is the secret of good
health —yet many men and most women need an “aid to nature”
in establishing such regularity and in maintaining it.
Kruschen Salts, the famous home remedy for Constipation (and
the train of evils that Constipation brings) is an ideal aid to
nature —it determines regularity of habit, and by daily cleansing
the system of all impurities promotes a state of constant vigorous
good health. Get the Kruschen Habit—persevere with it 1
It is the “ open sesame ” to health and general well-being..
s
AUSTRALIAN
PRICE
2/6
per tiOiUe
ILL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
f all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents.
lESSRS. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
ole Proprietors, E. Griffiths Hughes ! Kruschen) Ltp.,6B Deansgate Arcade. Manchester, En„ an
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
ã
TO
H.M. THE KINO
SCRUBBS AMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATION OF INSECT BITES.
Of all Grocers, Chemists, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
“D.F.”: Many wire ropes which had come
to the end of their usefulness on old \ ic.
mining-fields have got anew job elsewhere.
Orchardists in Mildura and other grape-
growing districts in northern "Sic., "’I IO use
miles of wire to train their vines on, have
taken to buying these old ropes and untwist-
ing them.
“Dale”: Apart from anything else the
income tax on tote winnings is unjust in-
asmuch as the man who invests and does
not win is not allowed to deduct the amount
of the loss from his income. If a win is
income, the expenditure necessary to secure
it is money used in a business, and the pun-
ter who after four 10s. investments wins
14s. Gd. on the fifth has an honest griev-
ance when he is taxed on it. P.fe. He has
a grievance, in any case.
“P.”; At last a use has been found for the
mostly-superfiuous millionaire. Mallaby-
Deeley, British M.P., who awhile back dis-
embogued a few millions for the Duke ot
Bedford’s Covent Garden estate, is now run-
ning a cheap clo’ shop in London. His idea
is that the present price of clothes signifies
colossal profiteering, and to back his opinion
he is retailing from a Strand shop to-
measure suits at £2 17s. Gd. and £4 lis. Gd.,
as against the ruling West End 10 to In
guineas. It may be dinkum ; but I’ve known
many anew pub start its life with free
beer.
"W.N.”: “Guy Hope” (B. 15/4/’2O) is
on the right track when he says that head-
masters are largely responsible for the over-
crowding of State schools. Our_school has
an average attendance of, say, 500 pupils,
about 100 of whom are always taught in
the weather-sheds. But the teachers are
still canvassing for youngsters. A few days
ago we got word that the youngest in the
family (just six) must toddle off for some
education; and a neighbor got notice that
his child (five) must attend. I think they
are to be put up oil the roof.
According to Francis de Castella, Vic-
toria’s viticulturist, America’s decision to go
“dry” didn’t work out quite the way it was
expected. At least one huge vineyard in
California, threatened with extinction,
placed its product to greater advantage than
before prohibition came in, as people bought
the grapes to make their own wine at home.
De Castella doesn’t think any harm was
done. In Southern France, where light
wines are an everyday beverage, intemper-
ance is practically unknown. Cold Tea
will seemingly have to start another cam-
paign.
“Doxite”: During an early morning vigil
in the Spencer-street railway yards, pend-
ing the making up or dashing together of a
mixed train that was to remove me and my
starving poddies a further stage along the
road, 1 learned a lot about Vic. railways.
The first truck that was “kicked” in proved
the efficiency of the Newport men who con-
struct guard-vans; also the thoroughness of
the scientists who build dead-ends. Truck
No. 2 contained flour and the impact emptied
a bag of it over me. When No. 3 crashed I
fancied that I could hear sugar flowing over-
board, and was just holding out my hat
when I heard Nos. 4, 5 and 6 roaring through
the gloom together. They contained beef on
the leg, and there were bellowings and a
castanet of horns for 10 minutes after the
collision. When No. 7 hit the mark the
tinkling laugh of a mirrored overmantel told
that a load of furniture was enjoying the
joke, whilst a grand piano vibrated to the
tune of “Send the Bill to Father.”
“Ike Hollar”: The Australian Clerical
Association, which is the federation of the
Clerks’ Unions in the various States, is now
a fairly influential body; but the head-
quarters have become dissatisfied with the
progress made in Sydney. In other States
there are many awards and agreements, but
in N. S. Wales the agreements governing
clerical work can be numbered on the toes
of one foot. Asa result of the dissatisfac-
tion there has been an eruption, and brother
Katz has crossed over from Melbourne to
reorganise the branch. He threatened at
first to rope in new members at the rate
of a thousand a month, but he has modified
that programme since meeting the Sydney
stiff-collar brigade. He still, however,
sticks - to his announcement that within a
few months- half a dozen groups of employers
will be brought to the Arbitration Court and
asked to explain why they should not pay
decent wages. But there seems to be very
little answering enthusiasm amongst the
clerks. Many of them seem too busy think-
ing about the silk socks which one clerk
told the Living Wage Commission were
necessary to enable him to retain his self-
respect.
“D.” on the best-organised trades :
Many of the trades are becoming so well organised
that they can almost do now what the professions
have long done. In a few instances they have
actually got that far. I recently had an electrician
in to do rather a big job, and after some days
I could not choose but remark upon an individual
who arrived with him every morning and left in
the evening, but in the interim did nothing what-
ever except smoke and make tea. “Who is he?”
I asked the electrician. “My laborer.” “But he
doesn’t do anything.” “He isn’t allowed to help
me in any of the technical work,” explained the
other. “He’s here to clean up or do actual
laboring work. As it happens, there isn’t any avail-
able. Still, I’ve got to have him.” It recalled
at once the K.C.’s laborer —in the jargon of the
Bar, his “Junior.” The K.C. has to have a junior
whether the latter works or not; and the client
(employer) is required to pay for both.
Bdt, taken all round, the professions are still
much better organised than the trades. A K.C.
will often engage for several jobs, work on only
one, and charge for the lot. The same evening he
is quite likely to be fiercely denunciatory over the
“swindling, go-slow tactics of the Bolshies.” I don’t
know what would happen to an artisan who agreed
to instal electric light in three or four houses, only
did so in one, and then attempted to collect for all.
It would lie between an indictment for attempting to
obtain money by false pretences and a remand to
permit of his being examined by a specialist in
mental diseases.
The boycott is also applied much more ruth-
lessly in the professions than in the trades. But
the latter are coming on. The day is probably not
far distant when cabinet-maker Bloggs, on being
convicted for stealing a comrade’s hammer, will
be struck off the roll of cabinet-makers for life, with
the proviso that he may periodically apply for re-
instatement, and the unspoken reservation that it
will in no circumstances be granted.


ä
Hodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
It is wonderful how well people think of the car.
Its quality is a thing everyone seems to take for
granted.
Long life, faithful service, fine riding qualities,
lasting finish—none of these are debated.
The prospective owner is nearly always sure of
them without discussion.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
noDGE Brothers
d
Canada Cycle & Motor C 0.., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Standardised Motors, Limited
Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co., Ltd.,
Brisbane.
Winterbottom Motor Co., L,td.,
T'erth.
Cheney Motor C 0.., ltd..,
Adelaide.
S *F „ EaltH
0tJ.S©Ifis Broths
CWorody^e
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS nhil
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, lIS, SIS/
Hade in England.
ďd
Velvety Shaves with
The “PLUM”
RAZOR
Is a pleasure you’ll anticipate.
This noted Razor is no new invention.
For many years it has maintained its
supremacy through sheer consistency of
merit.
The “Plum” requires but little strop-
ping, as its finely tempered edge keeps
keen against the strongest beard, and
gives that smooth, velvety shave which
every man appreciates. Thousands of
“Plum” Razors are sold annually.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of
charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
JO/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strops, 7/6 and 10/6 each.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2.
All the above Post Free.
SAFETY “Army and Navy” Safety Razors, with Strop, 12/6 each.
RAZORS. M 1 Nickel Case (flat), suitable for travelling, 15/6.
Ihe ‘ Army and Navy” Razor has our fullest recommendation.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
, ,
lijjjjm
1
Control Your Memory by the
ROTH METHOD
During last year in England 150,000 people took
the course.
Oon’t grope around in the dark any longer. Control your memory
and see instantly everything you want to remember.
th°o r 6 l7 theV ad T y anced? Wh y not then train YOUR
MEMORY in the right way. It is so easy, give it a trial
w“n the secn l t in , one evenin S- Your ability to remember
promoUon thereby employer S attention and promotion will follow
Doubling and Trebling Your Salary.
42 /\ r to the Standard Art Book Co., Ltd., 29 Woolbrokers
Chambers, Young Street, Sydney, and the SEVEN BOOKS com-
prising ROTH S MEMORY COURSE will be forwarded you post free.
d
Consult Us!
On Water Supply
and Irrigation.
We have a Large & Varied Stock of Pumping Machinery.
Some Specialities of our own make are:—
Tlanth S ' IB Cl Walkin K Beam Pumping
Hercules Oil Engines. 1.8. C. Centrifugal Pumps
Syphonj Hmflmili Pumps. Pump Rods; Drive Well
sh %pSScJTS,iV 1 ”Sl' 1,li '- “ n "
Standard). ’
’National” Pipe,
.. " ” - j Hungs j xriptJj
national lllack and Galvanised Casing (the World’s
ď
đ
Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd.
Merchants, Engineers & Contractors,
418-424 8 450-460 Ann Street
%T S Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane
nearby). Works: Yeerong-pilly
z
U
Sound Methods Make a
Sound Market.
<^ue fbing bas been made clearer than ever
this year.
I he people who buy this car do so for sound
business reasons.
'tte know this by what they say, and by the
way they approach the purchase.
Ihey represent the substantial class in their
own community and hold fixed ideals of
value.
buying Dodge Brothers Car is, with them, a
matter of business— because they seem
sure they will get more out of it.
Xt ha f com f to be known as a substantial
car, and naturally that has attracted to
it substantial people.
" he “ f a c °mes in to buy, he is thinking
or tiie freedom from annoyance he will
en Joy in its ownership.
He i L t !? i “£ in £. 0 £ the low petrol consumption
and the high tyre mileage.
Ue is thinking of the satisfaction of having
if C if r t - lat 'Y 1 * never be out of service
it lie gives it ordinary attention.
116 hi VH ng how muoh such a car will
activity 1 * te t 0 hIS bllsiness fi tness and
He I hn t i;n nki " ff o h<>w niuch he c, an expand his
business effort, and how slight the cost
in comparison to the increased return.
If h not 80 sure of the car, he might
investment. ° f the Wisdom of the
BUt uZnTf that he - cai ? depend implicitly
upon the service it will deliver.
So there has grown up all over Australia a
different sort of an attitude toward the
purchase of Dodge Brothers Car.
It is a serious-minded attitude—one which
advance. 011 r ° Sl,ltS ’ and feels surc iu
This is as it should be, and as Dodge
Brothers would have it.
Building motor-cars is, with them, a serious
business— each and every Dodge
pothers Car is worthy of the very
best they can give it.
They look upon every sale as a binding
business agreement to deliver certain
definite results to the buyer.
That this policy has attracted to this car
the substantial and serious-minded
buyers of Australia, is one more great
source of satisfaction to them.
It is further assurance, too, if such were
needed, that the quality of the car will
steadily grow higher.
Just on three hundred Dodge Brothers Cars
were delivered to buyers in Now South
Wales by the Standardised Motors
Biimted during the quarter ending 31st
March, IJIO, and this is but a reflec-
uon or the estimation in which the car
is held throughout the Commonwealth.
If this sales record represented the appeal
of a price, the total would not be par-
ticularly impressive.
The important thing is that the car is not
thought of in terms of price, but in
terms of value.
How often you hear the car spoken of —
and how seldom the price!
It is the quality of thought that surrounds
it which makes this success noteworthy.
Because people think well of these cars it
is still impossible for Dodge Brothers
to build enough of them.


Thin Endy Hair
or Thick and Healthy?
A scalp cared for by Cuticura usually
means thick, glossy hair. Frequent
shampoos with Cuticura Soap are ex-
cellent. Precede shampoos by touches
of Cuticura Ointment to spots of dan-
druff, itching and irritation of the
scalp. Nothing better for the com-
plexion, hair or skin.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
“R. Town* & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.” Sold
by dealers throughout the world.
jVARATAH
MCIMC
i
Hi... .»
•Vl.'li
VJTJJFa
Better Fences for
Less Money.
The utmost in length, greater
strength an<l lesser cost of
Waratah Wire, erects more
durable fences at a minimum
cost. “Waratah” strains tighter,
seldom sags, is of uniform thick-
ness and superior to imported
wires. Get free Booklet N. 19.
AUSTRAL NAIL CO. PTY. Ltd.
310 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
Wire Mills, Newcastle, N.S.W.
ON A LINER, A YACHT,
MOTOR BOAT, A CHANNEL
STEAMER, A COASTER or
A TRADER
MOTHERSILL’S SEASICK REMEDY
is guaranteed to prevent and cure Sea Sick-
ness, or money refunded. Equally effective
lor Train Sickness.
O
v 5
ASIC
K
S
E
has been tested on the English Channel, Irish
an 1 Baltic Seas by representatives of leadm
London and Continental newspapers, who
unreservedly endorse its unfailing power to
prevent and cure mal-de-mer.
'‘The London Yachting World” says: A posi-
'feve cure for sea-sickness. Be sure it’s “Mothersill’s.’
No Bad After Effects.
All Chemists, in Large and Small Boxes.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO., LTD.,
Aberdeen House, 204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Nothing contributes
more to secure happy
temper in a child
than correct feeding.
Get the diet right, and baby
is as happy as the day is long.
Mellin’s Food is adapted for use with
the youngest babe, is light, easily
digested, safe. Besides, ‘‘Mellin’s"
is a no-worry food —hot water and
fresh cow’s milk, and it’s ready,
Mellms
Food
Baby’s Feeder Is Important. Melon's Feedtn*
Bottle is unique; liygienic.efficient,easily cleaned.
A Sample Bottle of Mellin’s Food, with Handbook
for Mothers, “The Care of Infants.” sent Free.
Messrs. Collin & Co. Proprietary, Ltd.
Sydney
The EASTING SIDE-CAR WIND SCREEN
Just the Accessory You Want for WET WEATHER, WIND and DUST.
ADJUSTABLE INTO NINE DIFFERENT POSITIONS.
THE ONLY COMBINED HOOD AND SCREEN ON THE MARKET.
i-W
.
SYDNEY AGENTS
Bennett & Barkell.
Bennett & Wood.
Williams Bros.
Biden & Roberts.
Buckley & Omedie.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue giving
full particulars and Fitting instructions,
FREE.
SOLE MANUFACTURING AGENT,
PRICE, ONLY £5/5/- J. J. WILKINS,
COMPLETE WITH FITTING
AND APRON.
Crystal Palace Buildings,
586 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
are FREE FROM MINERAL OILS. They are of the highest
possible quality, and keep the uppers of shoewear soft and
pliable, thus preventing cracks and prolonging the life of the
leather.
COLORS —Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
Obtainable everywhere.
In Bottles and Tubes.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney
the palace hotel,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
Join the contented company
whose winter evenings are
gladdened by the
the pipe that satisfies!
“Country Ped” : It is not only “the poor,
helpless people suffering from mopei-
able cancer, and others in the last stages
of phthisis.” who put themselves in the
hands of the Chinese quacks. I know of a
little girl suffering from a bad post-nasal
growth. Her parents were foolishly afraid
of the simple operation, and instead took
her to a travelling Chow “doctor.’ lor a
couple of pounds down he guaranteed to
cure her. He forwarded a tiny spray
and a supply of the necessary powder
to be blown into her nose so many times
a day. On examination the wonderful
medicine turned out to be common snuff. But
by that time the fraud was safely away
with the two pounds.
“Naming”: When I decided that the
horrors of life in a boarding-house were be-
yond further endurance I gave notice. The
glare in my landlady’s eye warned me that
some new terror was pending, and during
the week I noticed without comment that
an insignificant article of bedroom furniture
had disappeared from my Bxß cubicle. A
substitute duly appeared, but I gave it no
attention. Then, on my last day, I received
a bill which read, “To board (and break-
ages 4s. lid.) for week .” I inspected
the utensil that replaced the one I hadn’t
broken, and it was prominently labelled
4s. lljd. In the whole wide range of imple-
ments of domestic service the one I was
unable to discuss or disavow before a lady not
of my own family had been charged to me.
I paid up. But I have thought out a scheme
of my own for my next venture.
“Bill O’Costs” on the fine points of his
trade:—
A purchase and mortgage of property in N. S.
Wales had to he put through, and a Melbourne law
firm of great tonnage decided, in the fashion that
admits of no discussion by a mere mortgagor, that the
business must be done by them. To the uninstructed
eye it looks neither here nor there which set of
lawyers does the work; but as the clients were in
one State, the property in another, and we (that is
the first-blood lawyers) were in a third, there were
dozens of letters and squads of documents passing
back and forth, and a perfect orgy of “perusals.”
When the Melbourne firm’s bill was presented con-
siderable sections of it read like this: “On receipt
of your letter, perusing, etc.,” “Letter to Sydney
agent for forms, etc.,” “On receipt of Sydney agent’s
letter perusing,” “Having received your letter in-
quiring how business was progressing, perusing,”
“Letter to Sydney agent for information,” “On
receipt of Sydney agent’s reply, perusing,” and so
forth. For all this labor the Melbourne experts
put at the foot, “Say £52 105.,” as if meaning
one to see that they might easily have said more.
However, the shock came when I found the additional
line, “Paid Sydney agent’s charges”—another 50
guineas! Of course the latter bill, when discovered,
consisted largely of “Perusing Melbourne agent’s
letter, etc.,” and “On receipt of Melbourne agent’s
documents, perusing” ; also there were charges for
correcting the Melbourne agent’s errors and possibly
for “perusing” their own corrections. They were
quite equal to it. Anyway, they also had to be
paid, or chaos would come again. In our old-
fashioned way we used to instruct a brother in the
State concerned to do all that was needful in cases
of this sort and trust to that local shark to cough
up a fair share of his bite as “agency” ; but these
modern practitioners go a lot better, for they make
the agent disgorge the “agency” as well as dupli-
cating his work. My old father (a mere layman)
once showed me an entry in a bill of costs as a
solemn warning of the sort of thing my young morals
were graduating in. It was the final line, and read:
“Letter herewith, 55.”
“5.8.”: A recent Bulletin par told of a
trick played on Billy Vowles, leader of the
Queensland Opposition, at Maida Hill,
where the whisky that had been provided
for a meeting of the “free and independent”
was turned into water. It recalled a trick
that was long ago played on his father when
he was in charge of the Enoggera State
School —where, by the way, the Opposition
leader was born. One morning the young-
sters came excitedly into school with stories
of a bad man camped down in the bushes:
“He says he has just come from gaol, and
that he’s going to steal things to get back
again—the work is easy and the tucker
good.” The man was spoken to by Vowles,
who tried to show him his folly, but in
vain. The tramp looked the gaoibird, so
Vowles advised the children to tell their
parents to guard their cash that night, and
to let the dogs loose. Seeing that the fellow
had made a camp-fire close to the school,
Vowles brought him to his kitchen and gave
him supper, which was eaten greedily. Kind-
ness like the exhortations failed, and, as a
last resource, the pedagogue led the man to
the nearest pub, arranged for his bed and
breakfast, and left lialf-a-crown with Bung
for delivery to his guest next morning. The
man so anxious for gaol was a well-disguised
detective watching for a sly grog-seller whom
he next day caught. “And I never got my
half-crown back either,” the old pedagogue
used to complain.
“L.L.W.": If Peter Board, Director of
Education, reads “Mary Scott’s” par. (B.
22/4/’2O) he will sniff and say, “The day
for teaching formal grammar is past.” He
has said so on more than one occasion. And
true it is that grammar is a subject deli-
berately neglected in N.S.W. schools. Per-
haps its neglect partly accounts for the
fearful composition of a majority of the
children. In many large schools there are
only four days to the school week, since
one morning is used up by the visiting par-
sons and one afternoon is given to sport.
Thus in less than 20 hours teachers are
compelled to sling at their nupils minute
chunks of the following subjects:—
Heading (magazines and supplementaries), recita-
tion, literature lessons, phonics, word-building, word-
grouping, spelling, dictation, oral composition, writ-
ten composition, grammar, analysis, writing, mental
arithmetic, tables, notation, written arithmetic,
symbolical expression, algebra, measurement, geom-
etry, mensuration, nature study, nature poetry, school
agriculture, geography, mapping, hygiene, history
(Australian and English), civics, Scripture, morals,
drawing, brushwork, music, manual training, physical
training.
If you count them up you will find that half
an hour a week is the greatest time possible
to give to any one subject. The depart-
mental heads responsible for the hotch-
potch will tell you that “correlation” really
lessens the number of subjects. Ask the
dominies who have to pretend to do the work
which subject is thoroughly taught in the
schools, and they will answer unanimously
“Not one.”


AIL AUSTRALIA USES REXONA.
Wfk
'/////
¥
m
BABY DOROTHY HARMAN (from a photo).
NEVER a day passes but that Rexona scores
another triumph over those serious troubles
of life Sores, Bad Legs, Piles, Eczema,
Pimples, Blotches, Burns, Nasal Catarrh and
Rheumatism. The dainty little triangular pot of
Rexona the Rapid Healer contains a combination
of the most curative, antiseptic, soothing and healing
properties known to Science. Rexona is the Skin
Remedy of the Age, because it destroys the harm-
ful germs that may be present in a sore, pimple,
or any abrasion of the skin, thus preventing any
contagion of the blood, and at the same time causes
a new, healthy skin to grow. Rexona immediately
reduces the inflammation and pain; it acts as a dis-
tinct stimulant to the pores of the skin, and sets up a
healing action immediately that increases day by
day. Bad leg sores that have resisted every other
treatment succumb almost immediately to its won-
derful influence, while for Piles there is nothing its
equal.
In every home Rexona is an essential need, and if going
away for a holiday don’t let your vacation be spoiled by any
of the usual troubles such as Sandfly or Mosquito Bites, Sore
Feet, or the ever-occurring Cuts, Burns and Bruises incidental
to holiday-making; but take with you a pot of Rexona and a
box of Rexona Soap, and thus be able to enjoy your holiday to
the full.
LITTLE MISS WINIFRED GODFREY
(from a photo).
See this Bonny Baby. Lovely, isn’t she ? A Rexona Baby, of course!
Mother Wisdom knows that the little one could not croon that baby-song of
happiness unless she was clean and cool and comfortable in every iibre of her little
body, hook at the bonny limbs, feel the firm flesh, touch the velvet cheeks. Can’t
you guess? She’s a Rexona baby, of course. Each day mother bathes her little
treasure with pure Rexona Soap, the baby’s own soap, that destroys disease germs
and keeps the tender skin clean and healthy. She keeps colds, rashes, chafing and
other baby-ills far from her. Baby is the best thing she has, and the best of Soaps
is only just good enough for her. That is why she is a Rexona Baby. See?
Please And enclosed my baby’s photo
(Dorothy). She is 12 months old, and I
have always used Rexona Soap to wash her,
and she has a most beautiful, clean and soft
complexion. I can recommend Rexona Soap
to any mother for baby’s use. Trusting you
will like my baby’s photo.
I remain, yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) Mrs. It. HARMAN.
Butcher Street, St. Arnaud, Vic.
REXONA-the King of
Ointments —Best for Piles.
Women who suffer from piles are especi-
ally unfortunate in that they cannot talk
about their complaint. They must suffer in
silence. To all such Rexona comes as a
great blessing, for it is easily obtained, easily
applied, and the result is always gratifying.
The distressing symptoms quickly subside,
and mind and body both feel relief from the
constant strain almost after the first
application. In this ointment are combined
juices and essences in an entirely new and
unique manner, forming a remedy justly
celebrated as a Rapid Healer. Rexona is a
remedy which is especially valuable in the
treatment of piles. Those who try it will
not be disappointed.
“I’°r some time internal bleeding Piles
caused me much suffering,” writes Mrs. W.
161 Y “rrow Street, Invercargill, N.Z.
The irritation was unbearable. I could not
I'®’ ''“ lk ,°r i sit „ °“ account of the pain and
uncomfortable feeling. I tried many reme-
dies, all with no success. Nothing did me any
grood. Rexona Ointment was recommended to
I flr ® t l two or three applications of
this splendid balm acted like magic. After
using Rexona Ointment for only a short time
I was freed from my terrible affliction, and
completely cured. It was well called ‘The
Rapid Healer.’ ”
King of all
Ointments.
,
Mfoolhing, , -
ffealmd
pnliseplic Oinlmeitf
|tfurifi e 3 J?
r 6 Heals j Reliable \
THE RAPID HEALER
A Reliable Remedy for all eruptions and irritations of the
:rSkin, Eczema, Pimples. Sores, Chilblains, Chapped Hands
Sciatica. Itching or Bleeding Piles. Cuts, Burns,Bruises.Scalds,
Bad Legs, flings of Insects and all kinds of Inflammation.
y sole
>NA%F
Proprietors
The Ever-
ready Healer
This Little Girl Suffered Terribly with Ringworm on the Head until
Rexona came to the Rescue.
for fj* ** exoaa tha f 1 m «»t write and tell you what it lias done
was h i B ° me tl, , ne aRO she had a *n«Ht terrible ringworm, i
. a 8 /*** ? and day for three weeks. The irritation was terrible. I had to tie
h««,H BI | U 8 ln i c “*' ton wool to keep her from scratching it; her hair fell out in
»Hv/hh, n » t he T aS ! lUite 1 1 1 . 1 ', 1 tried everything 1 could think of. but could not
to ,? ,v f her rel, ef. At last my sister came and asked me to try
Kexona. The effects were marvellous. It just seemed to kill the ringworni
and stop the irritation right away, and she was able to sleep, and it was womler-
h " W . B ]‘. e recovered. Everybody who saw her head said it did not
seem possible that the hair could ever grow again, but I had such faith in the
Soap and Rexona Ointment that I kept on
using It, and I am sending: you her photo
to let you see what it has done for her. You
are at liberty to publish tills letter, as I
feel if anybody else suffered like Winifred
if they will give Rexona a trial I know they
will, like myself, feel they eannot say enough
in praise of it. It is worth its weight in gold.
I remain, yours very truly,
(Sgd.) Mrs. JOHN GODFREY,
Wilston Road, New Market, Brisbane.
REXONA for Skin Troubles
During the year we all suffer more or
less from some skin trouble such as heat-
rash, sunburn, sandfly or mosquito bites,
stings of insects, cracked hands, chilblains,
pimples, or perhaps, even eczema. These
skin eruptions are all very unpleasant, and
make us feel irritable and uncomfortable,
but this suffering is unnecessary. All that is
needed to take away the itching and irrita-
tion and make the skin clear and healthy
once again is to apply Rexona, that cooling,
soothing, antiseptic, rapid healing Ointment.
Try Rexona for yourself, and prove its
benefits.
A few words in praise of the wonderful
good your Rexona Soap and Ointment have
done for my little girl (Maudie), who had a
nasty rash on her face and legs for some
time.
After trying different Ointments, which I had
seen advertised, I used Rexona, and found a
great improvement. I used two tins, and she
was completely cured. With the Ointment I
used the Soap, and found that it kept her
skin beautifully clear, and I still use it for
her.
Wishing your Rexona every success.
I am, yours truly,
(Sgd.) Mrs. BERTHA NASH,
71 Brisbane Street, Waverley.
TRY THE REXONA REMEDIES.
tion or Irritatioifofthe Ikin? I yoiT prompt relief?’ Rin§worms ’ Hives ’ Sores on the Head, Falling Hair, Dandruff, Burns, or any Erup-
Rexona soothes and h sHmiHates h the e parts l affected ai and e flHh Ii i Sa h P ?h llted W try Rexona ’ an<l J' ou will be delighted with the results,
healing powers, and so builds up the tissues \»ul Snakes yoi^skf^ sound be Th itG uaconsciou . s of “t Rexona never ceases to exercise its
keeping a pot of Rexona handy. Sold only in tria n<S r !i /« ‘L ! \ hea,th Y- Those who are wise will always be prepared for emergencies by
j onij in tnangulai pots at 1/6, or in larger-size pots, holding nearly four times the quantity, price 3/-
S 9
f' '',
wMmm
jSSScrJ
PE
p<?o
v i i
P p
a
JOK
JSSS
R?^ 3
lß®
A^ fr
1/6
Rexona—the Triang'ular Shaving »Sticfe
Here is a new idea in Shaving Soaps.
Another Rexona triumph—one this time which will be appreciated bv men wherever beards
grow. Kexona Stick contains the same oils and essences that have made Rexona famous the world
over, and is made on the Rexona formula, and thus makes a shaving stick which is a Soap and Lotion
Tt makes for comfort and hygiene in shaving, and tempers the skin against wind and bad
I yo „ ie ows A ow delightful Rexona Soap is for the toilet, and Rexona Shaving Soap will be
found equally pleasant for shaving. No cake of Rexona Soap and no stick of Rexona Shaving Soap is
r c ™ at ,, u .!l less P e cfect condition, for we market Rexona Soap as the finest of the fine, and
SklU in its manufacture and the absolutely first quality of materials used
111 xo ” a S , oa ß an(l R exona Shaving Stick soaps of superlative quality, which represent the
enamelled S bo ble S j» a " <la^ rd that we can offer to the public, regardless of expense. Sold in triangular
Rexona —the Aristocrat of Soaps
REXONA SOAP stands for Purity, Cleanli-
ness, Health and Beauty. By its use the
texture of the skin is at once refined, and
all disease-laden germs are washed away.
A clean body repels disease and invites
admiration. The refreshing glow of the skin
and the security from germ contamination,
which Rexona Soap ensures, is evidence of
the intrinsic truth of the old saying, “Beauty
is only skin deep.”
Rexona Skin and Facial Soap will do more
to improve your skin than you ever thought a
soap could do. It is medicated on the same
principle as the famous Rexona Ointment.
Thus it is able to exert the hygienic effect of
Rexona upon the skin, with every cleansing
operation. Prevents roughness, beautifies
complexions, sooothes tender skins, protects
from infection and disease, unexcelled for
shampooing, purifies the scalp, removes dan-
druff, and brings health to the hair.
mmM
mm
mm
Cleanses
HEALS AMO
Purifies .
Fob the
roiLET. Bath
& NURSERY
I
i
SKIN & FACIAL
v m
MEDICATED SOAP
Rexona Proprietary Company
I^Sydney.N.S.W.
/s'*
WWaM
1
m
%
Same Soap, Same Price. Still 1/- per Tablet.


CHUNDER AS MAORI DOING CANOE SONG FOR PRINCE,
&
a"
%
IP
/ V;
MM
a
\
£
W:
■ J -/j
hattog&fgm
’SSJi&QXi
c>
<3;
■ ,A- -
o
A.
y x
OP
/j
v»£3®*
Si
M&fo!
1 ft.'; y.yj
wr
I
/*
wr*
p
1 !>
YU
II
I
«JL
w
'h
/
1
1
K\ ■•'
is
Cd.
r-J
O
Cobra/’ sft e Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
In a Maori
War canoe,
Paddles down the
Stream of song
Where the splendid
Memories throng.
Chunder entertains
In style,
And the Prince’s
Happy smile
Seems to signal,
“We’re all right
“And the future’
COBRA-bright!’


mm?
4
m
1
&£>
?v?a
vy?M£
“•:.v•>•«&'
|vi>o
■ iLif S „ '
; fe^liiilil!
•*A<P.
;?F. ; -cK-vAviws
f:
11' t
BEAVER
BOARD
mmm
M
•:v -v
EHS
i |
- ?s m
WzMs3&
’ !
, -“fl
I ?... Ite
KS-.'Sv
■;. :v|
••:!■■ :t U : tr?r<
Mr.
r.;s^
A.<AV>*v.y
ig{v£M
■
SSI
i-SSS&.'S
7
37
-r
ii
mm
ixi
I* _, <j/-
eSsSssSfe
Ff
9
m ! :Z
mas
i
5^
ai
1
K 5
r.'^*
sas
a*
2^
m
mm.
m
m
:??*: : :-v-Sv
asi
Ati
sgcS
MBS
asiiiii
expect
_ Beard re~
this |
Board you buy.
Knotless, Crackless,
Manufactured Timber
Nature cannot produce real timber
minus knots, cracks and blemishes in
strong, sturdy panels six to sixteen feet
long and thirty-six and forty-eight inches
wide like Beaver Board.
Beaver Board has all the advantages
of the clearest timber stock without its
blemishes.
It is tough, rigid, durable, artistic, sanitary and
economical. It won’t warp, crack, chip or fall.
It is sound, shock and jar proof.
Is it any wonder that this new, modern, sanitary
building material for interior decoration is sup-
planting the muss and fuss, dirt and litter of lath,
plaster and paper ?
You can use Beaver Board in building, remod"
elingand redecorating homes, bungalows, cottages,
offices, stores, factories, clubs, churches, theatres,
public buildings, etc. —wherever a simple, artistic,
permanent scheme of interior decoration is desired.
Beaver Board can be obtained from Tim-
ber Merchants and Builders’ Furnishers.
See your local dealer J
THE BEAVER BOARD COMPANIES
Thorold, Ont., Canada London, England
Buffalo, N. Y., U. S. A. Mill* and Work* in Canada and U. S. A.
Australasian Representative, O. I». GORDON,
U.P.O. Box 12408, Sydney, N.S.W.
coco
p
Shirts
impart the same effect experienced
when you slip into a perfectly
tailored suit of clothes. You feel
better instantly.
A THISTLE SHIRT fits you all
over. Finished as expertiy as it is
cut, with qualities of style and work-
manship which no other shirt possesses.
THISTLE SHIRTS are sold by all
leading Shirt Departments —so are
THISTLE PYJAMAS. Try them.
Alexander Stewart & Sons Ltd.
Makers
Brisbane
mm
&
I
ftG
Sydney
See this brand
on each ShirL
1
&
i
ss
Use the BRANDY Your Men J
Enjoyed in?ranee MARTELLS!
The Standard Remedy which lias ontlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
Till! Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 15H6. CURES Write fer llonlc
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Enjlantt.
Insist on "Singleton's’ - —refuse all substitutes.
Our Friend Feisal.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
fMIiE Emir Feisal, militant son of the
shereef of Mecca, and self-styled
"King of Syria.” lias come in for a
good deal of prominence of late, but only
because lie serves as a buffer between French
and British aspirations in the patchy land
of Syria. He was a disappointment to Allen-
by always and ro Lawrence .sometimes, but to
the Light Horse, after the opportunities oi
letting them down had finally vanished, he
was an unending joy.
Lawrence and his Arab mercenaries
(nominally Fcisal’s command) were gath-
ered on the Mecca railroad east of the l>ead
Sea. Alleuby. after arranging for their co-
operation on that side, thrust his mounted
troops through the Valley neck and behind
the Turkish position in the heart of the
Moab mountains. Feisal apparently ap-
proached near enough to look at the battle,
but did nothing else; instead, he sacrificed
his valor to discretion and withdrew, having
no stomach for shell-lire. The result was
nearly a disaster for Chauvel and Allenby.
for the Goth Infantry Division, greatly
under-strength, failed to storm the Turkish
position from the Valley side, and the
Desert Mounted Corps was left in the air
somewhere behind the Turkish lines with no
known line of retreat. After three days in
those Moab mountains, surrounded by Turks,
the mounted troops fought their way out
along goat tracks and ravines hack to the
dreadful Jordan Valley they had hoped to
leave behind. How SIX) prisoners were also
brought back is difficult to understand, but
1 heard a weary trooper express a willing-
ness to light Feisal’s lledjhaz army on his
own before breakfast.
If Feisal ever fought more than a small
outpost skirmish it has not been made pub-
lic. At best his mob of savages hovered on
the Hank of the Turks, doing little but
threaten, and Jacko Turk, having as much
as he could attend to on the Valley front,
was content to let him threaten. The blowing
up of the Deraar railway bridges was as use-
ful a piece of work as lias ever been attributed
to the Arabs, since it closed the last line of
retreat for the Turks in Allenby’s big coup.
But Feisal had, in this instance, the assist-
ance of Australian airmen and British
armored cars, so" maybe he deserves very
little credit for even that performance.
When Allenby finally brought off his big
stunt —“tiie most complete victory ever
achieved in all the history of war,” as ho
himself puts it —Feisal did exactly what
might have been expected of him: he raced
north for Damascus, the pearl of the
Orient, accompanied by the best-mounted of
bi-s bodyguard, leaving the remainder to loot
the Turkish army which was being driven
eastward by Ohaytor. Ohaytor’s troopers
by this time knew they had the Turk in the
bag, and were more anxious to clean up
Feisal’s crowd than anybody else; and,
though Cha.vtpr has received a lot of kudos
'or his capture of that Turkish army, he
deserves a deal more for saving the lledjhaz
from a considerable unpleasantness.
As Feisal rode his hardest for Damascus
iio gathered adherents by the wayside; every
village supplied its quota of potential pil-
lagers, for was not Damascus the prize and
would not Feisal “the conqueror” be gener-
ous? When he reached his goal he saw the
most glorious view a barbarian has ever
gazed on: in a delightful valley laced with
streams of purest water and surrounded by
dense green vegetation spread the snow-
white panorama of mosques and minarets —
truly a prize and a kingdom ! But the prize
was not for him, for in every bazaar were
the emu plumes of Wilson’s horsemen, and
the surrender of the city was the glory of
the I.oth Light Horse. Nevertheless it has
been, for international reasons, the custom
to credit, Feisal with the capture of this
city ; Britain has found it politic to do so,
possibly in the hope that France will rest
content to leave it in the hands of its “con-
queror.” So history is written.
Whilst the fleeing remnants of the Turks
were still at large there was work for real
soldiers to do, and accordingly Feisal was
left: to “govern” the city until the situation
cleared. This he proceeded to do, and Ghen-
gis Khan was never as great a bull in a
glass-house as was this pretender to the
ancient throne of Syria. The facts have
never been divulged, but it was well known
at Charnel's H.Q. that Feisal had, in the
absence of our troops, arranged a triumphal
rour of his “conquest," and for some days
ihis was preceded by the wildest Wild West
■mow ever staged. The lledjhaz horsemen,
mounted on their weedy ponies, dressed in
barbaric raiment, with ancient and modern
weapons of offence hanging all over horse
and rider, galloped through the narrow
streets and fired their weapons at every dog
or Damascene that crossed their line of
vision.
On the morning set apart for Feisal’s
grand procession Allenby arrived unannounced
:1I )d * e , isal was sent for. He arrived at
Allenby’s headquarters, arrogant but punc-
tual. entered and sat down. “Stand up!”
■mid Allenby, Commander-in-Chief: and
feisal stood up whilst Allenby dealt with
the business he had in hand. Then Feisal
was invited to seat himself. It was a chas-
tened Feisal who left Allenby half an hour
later.
Some days afterwards I met Feisal doing
a tour of the city—on a much smaller scale
than he had intended. He sat beside his
‘ovn Arab chauffeur in a Ford car preceded
by eight Arab horsemen and closely followed
uv eight more. The pace of the bodyguard
was regulated entirely by the speed of the
rord. and as the chauffeur was no sluggard
the horsemen in front were obliged to move
to save themselves from being run over,
whilst those behind used their spurs to keep
the Emir in sight. In the narrow, crowded
streets of Damascus it raised plenty of dust
and excitement.
Recently Feisal was given the credit of
capturing” Tripoli also, whereas the 7th
Infantry Division had occupied it some
months before Feisal passed through on his
way to Paris! Apparently something has
to be done fur Feisal; but I wish the people
ut Beirut and Tripoli joy of Feisal if they
get him. - , ; -
HENRY CLAY.


Tl/RANTULLE
t HE Iqu COTTON FABRIC FOR HOME-SEWN LINGERIE AND BABY-WEAR
NwcA
*TJ
\.
V
9
TT
Mothers the whole world over
delight in Tarantulle. For their
children’s wear, as for their
own dainty lingerie, they know
that Tarantulle combines the
necessary purity and softness
with the absolute reliability
essential for home sewing.
Tarantulle maintains its standard of
quality. It is perfectly woven from
the finest cotton grown. Only when
you actually see how fresh, white,
and sound it comes from wash after
wash, can you appreciate the immense
value for money it offers to-day.
40 inches wide in three
weights— standard, fine,
and superjine. Name
always on selvedge.
ONE
Of
THE
TOOTAL
GUARANTEED
9>
C r ON
E PB>
All genuine TARANTULLE is name-
stamped on selvedge. Buy none without
OTHER TOOTAL GUARANTEED FABRICS
Each carries name on Selvedge
TOOTAL CLOTH >-TKe Guaranteed Velvet Fabne. equal to silk velvet lot
graceful draping Rich colors that will not rub off. in Plain and Cord. 27lns. wide.
LISSUE HANDKERCHIEFS 'Regd.l for ladies,
•ndchbie color border designs Lissue label on
Dainty exquisite self-white and
each
PYRAMID HANDKERCHIEFS (Regd.) tor men
indelible color border designs. Pyramid label on each
Correct celt-white
and
NAMR.it *-The Indelible Voile. In printed designs and self colors. 40 ins wide
I*OOTAL PIQUE .-~White and indelible colors 43/44 in*, wide
rOOTAL SHIRTING foO all hard-wearing purposes. Woven indelible color
stripes >2 ins. wide
rOBRALCO (Regd) The' Cotton Wash Dress Fabric in world-wide use
white ai*d indelible 27/28 ins
Self-
TO BE HAD OF ALL STORES
TOOTAL BROADHURST LEE COMPANY. LIMITED. MANCHESTER. ENGLAND.
All communications to :
MELBOURNE, G.P.0., Bo* 1035.
me
Business, Robbery, etc.
"Woof” : The first cloth manufactured in
Australia was the work of female convict
hands. The factory, at Parramatta, em-
ployed on an average about 100 women.
Settlers sent in wool and received in ex-
change a portion of the manufactured
article, the rest being retained to wear the
broad a rrow.
"Magneto” : A good magnet is one of the
tools used by Customs officials and others
whose job it is to test teas. The magnet
has no effect on the tea-leaves, but it has
on the iron filings which the wily heathen
overseas put in amongst the leaves to make
weight. So what ought to be tea but isn’t
jumps to the magnet and another scheme
goes wrong.
* * * *
“Na”i: You haven't finished when you've
got the skins. A friend loafing in the Uiver-
ina, having acquired enough fox-furs to
make a coat, wrote and asked me to inquire
about costs, etc. I went to two furriers,
and here’s the result. Required, 20 skins:
•'!s. and 2s. tid. each respectively to tan; os.
and JjS. for dyeing black; and £7 IDs. and
£5 ss. for "making and lining.” Totals,
£2B 2s. and £l6 6s. respectively. As a good
raw fox-skin is now worth £1 at least. 1
have abandoned an ambition to decorate
several of my dearest friends with their
heart’s desire.
*• «■ * X-
“Forester”: The thinnest and evenest
palings 1 have ever seen were split in a
belt of swamp-gums between the head of
Bream Creek and the Sandspits River
(Tas.). It was the prettiest belt of euca-
lypt timber I ever struck, too, practically all
young, sound stuff, trees from 200 to 230
"feet high, but really spars, few of them over
four or live feet in diameter. I have seen
palings split there six feet long and not as
thick as the boards of a book-cover. W bile
the Gum Thee wants to prohibit the splitting
of palings as wasteful, it is a pretty sight to
see a good man handling the knife. Any-
way, the splitters can't be guilty of a much
more wicked waste than saw-milling as it
is practised in the Speck.
"Xipa": I'he intense tropical vegetation
of the plains through which the Purari,
Ivikori. Tarama, Bamu and Fly rivers flow
to the Gulf of Papua may some day be a
source of wealth to the investor who develops
the wood-alcohol industry in Papua. Recently
an expedition under the leadership of Pro-
fessor Harding, of Sydney University, spent
some mouths investigating the possibilities
of utilising the immense tracts of nipa- and
sago-palm along some of these waterways.
In Java and other islands of the Malay
Archipelago the production of commercial
alcohol has been demonstrated a payable
proposition, and there’s good reason to pre-
dict a similar success if the industry is
developed in Papua. Cheap transport is
assured by the maze of deep channels and
riverg that make the map of Western Papua
more like a jig-saw puzzle than a chart of
land and water. The raw material is in
abundance, and native labor is assured by
the teeming population of the deltas; so
the venture has everything in its favor.
“P.X.”: The flat has more friends than
you’d guess if you read nothing but the
reports of housing and basic-wage commis-
sions. It was my friend the taxi-man who
first told me about it. He’d bought the
car mostly out of the bit he’d made “on
the side” while he had a milk round. By
.strict attention to the business of making a
pint and a half do the work of a quart, he
had been able to keep half a dozen customers
of his own. He explained that it was
easiest done in a flat where the boss had a
customer. Sometimes the customers a man
had “on the side” wanted more milk than had
been allowed for. In that case, somebody
had to get water. “I guess,” he said, look-
ing at the matter with the detachment of
one who was no longer in the trade —“I
guess many a poor bloke who’s been fined
has wondered how all that much water got
in the blessed cans.”
“Badiln” : Many employers still doubt the
advisability of employing returned soldiers
in any numbers. Listen. In North Queens-
land there are three sugar mills within 10
miles of each other. One is a Government
mill and the other two are private concerns.
The Government mill was practically run by
the A.W.U. One of the private concerns
had no fixed policy in regard to employees
and took any old labor that offered, from
Chows to Huns. The other had and main-
tained a policy of preference to returned sol-
diers, the manager being a returned soldier
himself. . When returned men offered at
this mill they were either almost invariably
taken on to fill a position, or vacancies were
created by the ejection of Huns, Greeks,
Russians, etc. So two of the mills had labor
consisting of linns, Turks. Chinese, Japanese,
Armenians. Greeks. Maltese. Italians,
A.W.U.'s, I.W.W.’s, O.B.TVs. and a few
dinkum Australians. 'Pile other had about
70 per cent, of returned soldiers. The first
two mills had in all five strikes and an ex-
ceedingly turbulent and discontented mob.
The returned soldiers’ mill had no strikes,
its contented employees earning from £4 to
£lO a week, and mainly giving a fair day’s
work.
« * * *
“L.L.W.”: Percy looked after the petty
cash in the Conveyancing department and
Gerald was responsible for a second cashbox
upstairs in the Common Law room. Old Coke,
the accountant, would meander in to Percy
once very mouth and go through his stamp-
account and petty-cash expenditure. Re-
tween paydays we office-rats used to give
lOU’s to Percy in exchange for temporary
relief. Old Coke walked unexpectedly into
the Conveyancing room one day and said to
Percy, “I’ll be in after 11 o’clock to see your
accounts.’’ Percy held lOU’s amounting to
nearly £2. He rushed round to each of us
pleading for a sudden settling. We could not
scrape together 10s. Percy leaped upstairs
to Gerald. “Put me square, old man,” he
begged. “Can’t," said Gerald. “I’m just
square myself, and Coke comes to me after
he’s been through you.” Percy begged so
hard that Gerald yielded. The money had
hardly been shoved in Percy’s cashbox when
in walked Coke. Everything was right. Out
walked Coke. Before he had reached the
foot of the stairs Percy had darted out the
back, climbed the fire-escape, and handed
the money through the window to Gerald.
A few seconds later Coke was initialling
Gerald’s cashbox. But after that it took
half-a-crown’s worth of eloquence to extract
even sixpence from Percy’s petty cash.
“Murkali”: Balsillie’s rain-making scheme
is based on the production, electrically, of
that atmospheric condition which precipitates
moisture in the form of rain. Each par-
ticle of vapor or steam evaporated by the
sun’s heat contains a certain electrical
charge. As long as this charged condition
continues the moisture remains in a gaseous
state, and its weight is then one 1700th part
of that of water. It is thereby enabled to
float. Dust blown up from the earth is
also electrically charged, but in an opposite
value to the moisture. It being a law of
electricity that unlike charges attract and
neutralise each other, the dust and the vapor
unite. The charged condition thereupon
vanishes, the vapor is condensed —that is,
becomes just plain water. Its weight being
thus multiplied 1700 times, gravitation gets
a look in, and rain falls. Balsillie evi-
dently thinks that in time of drought the
dust is at fault, as his .scheme attempts to
provide, by means of balloons and X-ray ap-
paratus, electrical dust of the right “sign"
or charge. As falling any considerable dis-
tance through an atmosphere of low-
humidity (typical drought conditions) tends
to restore the charged or floating state, Bal-
sillie would have to maintain favorable con-
ditions for at least hundreds of feet. Th<
theory is doubtless right: the nigger in th-
woodheap appears to me to be the absolute
impossibility of obtaining .sufficient power.
Consider the fierce energy expended in an
average thunderstorm, and then the rain fre-
quently omits to fall.
A page of old history :
Yankee whalers used to be thick on the Westralian
and S. Australian toasts. They took to calling ar
King George's Sound as early as 1803, over 20 year-
before there was any settlement there; in that year
Captain Pendleton, of the Union, sailing out of XV
York, tried for seals around the Sound on the strength
of the statements about their numbers made by Van
eouver, but got only about 30. After Albany had
been established one settler who was doing a little bay
whaling called on the captain of a British man-of-
war, which had dropped in, to chase the Americans out
of territorial water's. The captain said that he would
hare to find out what the Admiralty thought about
it first, but when he blew in again the excluder had
gone into partnership with the Yankees and favored
a policy of live-and-let-livp. French whalers, too.
were busy on the coast in those days. It was the
presence of a French whaler, the Mississippi, in r.
bay along the Bight which saved the life of E. J.
Eyre in his overland expedition from Port Lincoln
to Albany in 1841. Eyre estimated that about that
time there were something like 300 foreign whalers,
mostly American and French, working off the Aus-
tralian coast. Some French whalers had even gone
in for raising vegetables on the islands along th.
coast of tire Bight, and had a few sheep to provide
fresh meat.
•» * * *
“F.N.T.” : The Australian importer doesn't
lack enterprise. If he can’t get precisely
what he wants from abroad, ut the price he
thinks right, he will find something else
(imported) to take its place and then try
to educate the Australian public into its use.
The price of U.S. redwood, which has been
largely used here of late years for door-
sets, went up rapidly during the war, and
lias gone up even more rapidly since the
war ceased. It used to be as low as 30s.
per 1001't. super. Eighteen months ago it
was 7ns., and now it is 110 s. A Melbourne
importing firm has “discovered” another
timber which is allegedly suitable for doors
and is a good deal cheaper. This is ltornean
white cedar, which is easy to work and plea-
sant to the eye. The new article, however,
is very susceptible to damp. Doors of white
cedar, put in a house before plastering is
dried out, puff up like a suburban mayor
at Princetime, and only subside at then-
leisure. Yet Tasmanian celery-top pine,
cheaper than either red pine or white cedar,
has long been made up into sound, hand-
some, unwarpable doors by discerning wood-
workers. Bed pine even at 110 s. per 100 ft.
is still being used for exterior woodwork
such as sash-frames, and is better for the
purpose than any other P.S. softwood; hut
the much-cheaper Australian mountain-ash.
though harder to work, will live far longer
than red pine and make a beautiful job.
t'an’t we cut out Borneo and the U.S.A.
when housebuilding, for our own benefit and
that of the nation as well? Borneo and the
U.S.A. don’t help us pay our war-bill.
THE RUSH.
[?] [?] [?] [?]
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sky is flecked with winging shapes
Across the pathway of the sun,
And when the moon his splendor apes
The dusky shadows dip and run:
They topple ’gainst the azure noon,
They hold .communion with the -tar- ;
When on the vivid hill aswoou
The red day lies, supernal cars
Sweep by with earthly avatars.
Ballooning monsters lumber past:
All hope rides in their pendant boxes.
Uo bit mis of midgets drifting fast.
hike marshalled fleet- of flying-foxes;
Refulgent in the ray they come,
The- great machines superbly built
Of polished aluminium.
Or gayer pleasure-barges gilt
(live color to the swoop and filt.
Ascending from the wayside towns,
And trooping from the city spaces,
They come, and on the sunning downs
Their shadows run bewildering races—
The poor man’s ’plane, tiie rich man’s 'bus,
The scout of beaten metal wrought:
They’re flowing, fleeing over us,
for some prospecting aeronaut
Has struck it rich at Neverought !
VICTORIA.
E. DYSON’.


IftMta
WKmt
IlSIi
111
'
|l|l !|ii!!i>
lailiillil
\ I
iHlliiliWM
iiilpiliiillllliiißl „
a 1
,
- m 1
mSSm
mi
mimiiW-
liM-sl
1 ;
ilpl,
I |l||
Eh
ti
■■ j
Sill
BSiSii
' i'r
lilpl! ilii llli!!
■Hi
I
■■m
lniSS
I;,
lililHßi
Road 'round the
World
T
IT criss-crosses every continent.
And every section of it differs.
Yet there is a type of ‘United
States’ tyre that exactly fits every
possible road surface.
‘United States’ tyres have five dis-
tinct and different treads, which
appeal to Australasian motorists.
They are called: ‘Royal Cord,’
‘Nobby,’ ‘Chain,’ ‘Usco,’and ‘Plain’.
They are made by the world’s
largest rubber manufacturer.
United States Rubber Company
(Australasin) Limited,
53 York Street, Sydney.
130-2 William Street, IVielbourne.
nited States Tire
Are Good Ti res
Obtainable from all leading garages and
W. A. SORRELL, 157 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND : Howard Motor & Cycle Co. Ltd., Brisbane,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Bagot, Shakes & Lewis Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Ltd., Perth,
LAUNCESTON : Irvine & McEachern.
HOBART: Buchanan, Davidson & Co. Ltd.
NEW ZEALAND: Magnus, Sanderson & Co. Ltd., Wellington
.. Dexter & Grozier Ltd,, Christchurch,


Can’t Beat Cocoanut
Oil for Hair Wash.
Girls and women who wish to keep their
hair in nice condition should be most cautious
in the soap they wash it with. Most
soaps and ready-mixed shampoos contain
excessive quantities of alkali. This dries
the scalp, makes the hair brittle and is verv
injurious. Just ordinary colinated cocoanut
oil (a pure, saponified but quite greaseless
liquid) is far better than the most costly
soap you could possibly use for a shampoo,
for this cannot possibly hurt your hair.
Merely wet your hair with water and rub it
<>n. A couple of teaspoonfuls make a perfect
flood of rich, thick, creamy lather, and
eieanses both hair and scalp thoroughly. The
lather rinses out easily, and takes with it
every trace of dust, dirt, dandruff or excessive
oiiiness. The hair dries quickly ami evenly,
and comes out fine and silky, bright, glossy !
and fluffy, appearing to be heavier than it is.
And, best of all, this colinated cocoanut oil
leaves the hair as easy to dress again as
though you hadn't washed it at all. You can
get colinated cocoanut oil at most, any chemist,
but be sure it's “colinated/' which is not
expensive —a few ounces lasting a long, long
time.
IMPORTANT: Do not confuse colinated cccoanut
oil with cheaper sticky, emulsified cocoanut oils
or other substitutes. There is only one genuine
colinated cocoanut oii, as recommended above.
How to Rid Your Feet of
Corns and Callouses.
Half-dozen Drops of Frozol-Ice Loosen Corns or Callouses
So They Lift Off.
d
This is a wonderfully easy,
Quick and pleasant wav of
freeing’ your feet of corns
and callouses. . Let drip a
little liquid Frozol-Ice right
on to the core of your painful
corn or callous. It evaporates
at once, then—presto! the
corn-pain vanishes,
the corn or callous
starts to wither up
and soon it may be
peeled off with finger-
tips.
for men and wdmen who appreciate neat.
fashionable, attractive footwear and foot
comfort also. With Frozol-Ice vou en.ioy
both. There’s no pain nor soreness while
using Frozol-Ice. nor afterwards, since it
does not even irritate nor inflame sur-
rounding. healthy flesh.
Save a corner of your dressing-stand
for Frozol-Ice, and never let your corns
ache again. You'll be delighted with it.
True Frozol-Ice is only obtainable in the,
tiny bottle with glass-rod stopper. Every
bottle is enclosed in a green-labelled
cover, bearing the name.
Beware of imitations of the original.
All Leading Chemists. High-class
Stores, etc.
Drinking Water
With Meals Stops
Stomach Disorders.
Thousands of unfortunate people suffer
almost daily from' dyspepsia, indigestion,
fermentation, sour acid stomach, flatulence,
gases or distress after eating. If they would
only form the agreeable habit of slowly drink-
ing with each meal a glassful of hot water
containing a teaspoonful of pure Salix Mag-
nesia. they would soon find their stomachs so
much strengthened and improved that they
might eat the richest and most satisfying
meals' without the least symptom of indiges-
tion.
Sails -Magnesia is highly effective in -•tomach
and intestinal disorders, and is very pleasant
to the taste, and in the 'orm of fine powder or
compressed tablets—n»’»r liqifd or milk —
and is not a laxative. Any first-class chemist
can supply you with this Salix Magnesia.
On the Banjo.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'\T OU come on to the job off tramp, and
find that it is a roadway being cut out
around the side of a range of hills,
and as you walk up towards, where some of
your kind are shovelling the ploughed-up hill-
side and Hinging it into dravs, you wonder
whether you can get a cut in, and, if so,
how you are going to get through, the first
shift.
You see the ganger on the top side of the
cutting, above the nicely picked-down batter,
and approach him. “G’day—full handed?’’
"No. Good on the shovel?'’
"Yes.”
“Orright, get a start in the mornin’.”
You leave him to have a look at the
liaunelled and dungareed plugs shovelliug the
ploughed-up muck into the drays. It’s solid
enough, but you've done it before, and must
do it again. That or the track, and the
track is the harder. So you make down the
cutting, unroll your drum, and add your tent
or fly to the collection on the hillside, fronted
by various kinds of makeshift fireplaces. You
could read the character of each owner by
the fireplace lie rigs; but this doesn’t matter
now.
An axe is your next thought, and, copping
one from someone’s doorway, you cut a few
saplings and rig a bunk, fling your things
on it, then start off for the town, ,to
argue with a storekeeper about a week’s
credit, and tramp back with an assortment
of stores in a gunny-bag.
A fire next, then a gridiron— a bent-up
length of a Cooky’s wire-fence, if necessary
—and, with a bit of mutton grilling, you
begin again to wonder how you are going
to get the first shift in. Soft after a long
spell away from hard yakker, and weak
after tramping about on hand-outs, yoti feel
up to anything but a fair day’s work ; and
as you sit with the lire group after tea you
try to glean from the conversation how hard
a job it is. if you know anyone among
the horde lie will hand you the strength of
things; but to “give your guts” to a
stranger is bad tactics on a new job. So
you go to bunk wondering if they’ve slowed
down or speeded up, lengthened or short-
ened the banjo, since you last "shifted
muck.”
Next morn, with a hilly of weak tea and
a hit of crib, you walk up the cutting with
one or two of the others. Presently a dray
arrives and backs in ut the end of a length
of ploughed-up muck. Someone hands
you a shovel, the “redlight” yells “Yo-lio!”
and with four or five others you begin to
shovel it up and fling it into the dray. Soft
hands soon heat up with the unaccustomed
friction; as the sweat rises to the pores you
think your pelt will burst, and then it
begins to ooze freely. Ten minutes later
you’re reminded that there’s a bone in your
hack and you feel like straightening up
already ; but the steady work of those around
tells you that the ganger is still standing
where be “blew up,” and with flannel sticky
and sweat-stung eyes you hang on to it
somehow. The others, hardened to it, are
bogging in and don’t even notice your
plight. Presently you throw “the book” an
apparently casual glance, and find him sit-
ling on a fallen stringy-bark looking straight
at you. Down again until it becomes un-
bearable. and then up again to find him
entering up time, and you fancy he is writ-
ing yours out. Some gangers will give a
man a chance; others seem to enjoy watch-
ing a green man’s efforts to get the first shift
in. These brutes know it is safe to “chip”
a man when he is just off tramp; they also
know that when a man has been on a job
for some time and has a “bit. on the hip”
lie won’t stand too much back-chat, so they
stick their spurs into him while he is green.
Your back is now giving you hell, and you
long for the pint that would see you through.
Blinded by salty sweat and dust, muscles
all aching, hack nearly broken, hands blis-
tered. flannel and dungarees sticking, you
fill the shovel and fling it in mechanically.
While a full dray is being pulled out and
an empty backed in there's about 110 seconds’
spell, and this is jour salvation. The rest
are joking and laughing: hard as nails, they
don't care what yon are suffering. Hear-
ing a billy-lid rattle reminds you of your
weak tea, and a good gulp stars von up
for five minutes. Then the agony' begins
again. Thoughts of “snatching your time”
are banished by the dread of the track and
humming for tucker. It’s no use—you
straighten up and look around, and the red-
light is not in sight! You lean on the banjo
and have a look about. The wind is rust-
ling up the hillside through, a splendid vir-
gin forest, over gullies where tree-ferns
jostle each other, spreading their fronds to
shelter the spring water that hurries down
to join a creek in the gully below. But
these things are not for you. The smell of
dust and sweat brings you back to the horde
of dirty, grimy, shovelling wretches. You
fill a pipe, not To smoke, for that would
sicken, but to win a spell—and then a shape
<lowu the cutting makes von pretend to hop
in. A couple of draws is enough. _ (
Someone asks the time. _ Ten o clock.
Two more hours of - itYou don t think
you can do ten minutes of it. Still you
stick the shovel in, knee it up to fill, lift
it. and in agony fling it into the dray. Your
head begins to swim, and your frame to
tremble; each shovelful is to be the last.
A full dray pulls out and you fling it shovel-
ful without knowing what has happened.
The empty backs in and you get to it again,
until someone asks what’.s become of the
red-light. That gets you ; > carefully straight-
ening up you just stand and lean on the
banjo. Coming back to things a bit. you
drink more tea and take a long time to do
it: then tuck in your flanuel and wish to
God that a horse would back his "muck-box”
over the cutting and catherine-wheel down
into the gully. They do this sometimes,
but not when wanted.
But your fellow-slaves begin to look, and
think you are not putting in your bit, so
you get into it again. Presently your shovel-
blade clashes with another's, and your heart
jumps a beat; it might have been his face
for all you knew about it.
And so, taking every advantage of the
pulling-out and haekiug-in of the drays, you
hang on until as from afar you hear a faint
"Yo-ho!”. and slowly and carefully get your-
self perpendicular as the horde brushes past,
and the first half is in. Wearily you sort
out your coat and And something to get your
back against and carefully lower yourself
ag’in’ it. After a while you begin to force a
bit of crib down, and after that you lie flat
on your back to straighten out your spine.
The hour is short and then ‘'Yo-ho!” and
at it again. For the first half-hour you’re
good; then the old feeling of absolute empti-
ness and utter weariness comes back; and.
although the raw under-skin from burst
blisters is chafing on the shovel handle, you
are only concerned about taking every
advantage of tlic changing of drays and
watching the movements of the red-light. By
>i o’clock you are in a kind of stupor, and
only sheer grit holds you to it. But you
do get it in somehow and, wild-eyed and
all of a tremble, you stumble down the cut-
ting and fall on the rough bunk to wonder
how you did it. After an hour’s lie-down
you are hungry enough to get outside of
something, and then a night’s agony sets
in. Next morning every muscle aches, you
are stiff as a corpse, and afraid to move in
bunk. But to linger is no good, so you
crawl out and get into cold, dummy, sweaty
things, and after a light breakfast, and tor-
tured liy a hundred aches and pains, you
make your way out to some more like
yesterday, and get in another. Then another,
and a few good feeds and you’re set, and
you begin to remember seeing one of the
horde, somewhere, sometime, and he you.
You’re right now. Soon you get “a bit
on the hip,” “snatch your time,” fly back
to unemployment, and get yourself ready
to go through it all again.
LOU.
“Come and Have a Pitch.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE profiteers who gave Sydney 400,000
greater population than it should
have while Jervis Bay and Port
Stephens are as they be are in league with
all the gutless, witless, heartless cities in
making of. each an armed camp. Only in
a very few Sydney places do men from out-
side meet for the ancient Australian cus-
tom of “having a pitch.” One of these best
of men cannot learn new tricks ; so although
the ofton-futilo business of the city roars
around him, he talks as if we were met on
the Gregory. “Chuck work for three or four
days.” says he, “and we’ll get on a good
camp and have a pitch.”
Although Cbillagoe and further out had
seen me us late as 1908, Herberton, until
a few months ago, I had not known for
18 years. But men do not die easily in
the North. and there were still there the old
hands of the first year of this century and
of a few of the ten years that closed the
century before —old hands talking of for-
gotten things as if they were of yesterday ;
and scarcely anew line in their faces,
although a little more Hour-bag in the beard
Notably Bill, my old Tolga gossip, telling
of this man dead in his bed, and of that
one dead by a gun: of the one who gave
away all his money, and the other who killed
himself by trying to save sixpence ;
with reminders of Conkey who \vent to the
wedding in blue trousers belonging to a
shorter man, and _ made the legs 1 oncer
by sewing green baize on 'them with white
cotton : and of one whose only name is the
Man Who Drove the Black Bull from Mutta-
burra.
And then it was “D’ye remember Moddie?”
I didn’t.
“Not remember Moddie. the gowden-haired
piece V Not remember?”
I did.
“Ah thoeht so. I mind well the first dav
sb.’ come here. Off the coach she was be-
fore the horrses were stopped, an’ through
the mud. uu' into the bar. an’ ‘Bratidy.' she
says—‘brandy, an' wet your whistle y’selY
I remembered Moddie.
Out at Ravenshoe, which is old Cedar
Creek, there was Bill Rogers. Master of
the Horse for John Moffat from the ’eighties,
and he also desired a week to “have a pitch.”
“D’ye remember that grey horse you rode
to Chillagoe the time I drove Stewart and
Smith out with John Moffat?”
"In ninety-eight? Yes. Ilis name was
Freetrader, and he’d been trained as a
lady’s hack by a tin-packer!”
“Dead right! I drove behind you and I see
you shakin' like bloomonge when he’s gal-
lopin'.”
“That wasn't a gallop. Bill —that was an
imitation of a locomotive running over
boulders.”
“Ah, Mr. Moffat —he was a great man.”
(Into his eyes came the light of the incur-
able worshipper of heroes.) “lie made the
North. They’re talking of a monument to
him at Cairns. It should be a statue —
although he’d have dynamited the idea if
they’d talked it while he lived. Why ! when
I’d drive him into Herberton he’d say, ‘Go
by the back, Bill —there’s too much bowing
and bobbing in the main street.’ Modest—
he was all that.”
I’ve met many men who said they hated
publicity for public service, but lie was the
only man I’ve met who meant it.
Later, in Heroerton, where the children,
like all children of the scrub above
Mareeba, have poppy-tinted faces as of Tas-
mania and the Huon, all the pitches came
back to John Moffat —who took two millions
or more out of the ground and put them
back for the good of the country. John
Newell, who pegged out: the Reward claim
at Herberton iu April, 18S0, told us how
Miss Bimrose (now Mrs. Smyth), the first
girl on the Wild River, christened the
reward claim the Great Northern, while
she stood on a block of tin oxide 4ft. by
4ft. by 4ft. For 15 years the claim put
out 500 tons of tin oxide a year, most of
it at from £35 to £4O, down to as low as
£2B and never higher than £SO. Australia’s
tin-fields were found 40 years too early.
But back to John Moffat always—big John
Moffat riding up from Cairns on John
Newell’s horse; bier John Moffat fighting
T. 11. Kelly for the market; big John
Moffat refusing to sell Chillagoes or Gar-
nets, and he had nearly a million's worth at
the top of the market; of John Moffat being
poled on with his own knowledge and con-
sent by every bush-battler with a liard-luck
story, true or false; .John Moffat, the man
who couldn’t think mean things!
There was a pitch with John Coleman, who
fought Morgan D’Arcy to a finish for love
or dislike at Broken Hill in ’BB, the com-
batants being friends thereafter—Coleman
who made a hard passage of it, Darwin to
Tanami in 70 days with a big string of
horses, and 30 days back to Darwin.
I didn’t expect to find old mates on a
track new to me—Dimbulah to Wolfram;
but there was Bill Wall driving the coach
as if it were 23 years ago. and he still
running the mail from Oakey Creek to
Girofla. On scrub tracks you hear Mr. Cow
Cocky talking Strawberry's yield : the cane-
farmer around any mill talks of 02 per cent,
“net titty,” and the pitches about Wolfram
camp are all about wolfram, and how it pays
to be on a busted field instead of anew one.
“There’s a bloke was on the Walsh in your
time got mashed on a nurse in the hospital
and used to run grass-seeds into himself so
as to get into the hospital to be cured.
Remember two blokes on the Ilodgkinson—
Saynes and Dixon? They were out at Fifteen
mile. They had the only two claims there
—quarrelled over a gin. What do they do
but jump each other’s claims? The Warden
suffered their litigation two years, and then
told them he’d give each of them six months
if they came before him again. Tliev gave it up
then: except for cyanidin’ each other's dogs.’
“Heard* of Steppy Fillis. the hoppy book-
maker? Down about the Towers there was
goat races, and the winner of everything in
sight was a big billygoat. called Stinker.
Stepper give Stinker’s jockey £5 to stiffen
him, an’ all the kid jocks got. together and
put the fiver on Stinker at long odds and
stiffened Stepper. ‘Only two goats on the
course,’ says Stepper afterwards—“me an’
Stinker.’ Not a. kid of the jocks was older
than eleven either.”
“Good old story that, and just like the
Mitchell-grass people.”
“There’s an I.W.W. fellow in the logs at.
Cairns. Eight months from America —
not bad on the bi'otherhood-of-man and
down-with-the-Labor-Governmeut and long-
live-direct-aetion. Things weren’t going fast
enough with the brotherhood of man. so he
garrotted a Jap, went through him and tried
to pinch a diamond ring from his finger. So
the police gave him direct action, and lie
addressed them on the rights of man
through the little peephole in In's cell door.
Prices are high—nobody’d stand a pommy
running down . Labor when copper was £54
a ton.”
Lappa Lappa and the Chillagoe train
skirting the old road over the Feather Bed
Range—l hauled a couple of pack-horses
over it in ’97 and ’9B: and on few
other roads have I seen so much
misery for poor brutes staggering
through the Turkish bath of tie
wet season to the Mecca of night. Chillagoe
at dawn; and the tender morning of blu>-
and gold—the dense belts of pandanus in
Station Creek strike my memory as some
old song snug by some beloved long ago. A
sudden kapok grows from the talus of a
shattered cliff of lime, its flowers new and
glossy and yellow as in the days when I r<«l*
this track with life so pleasant and wonder-
ful that it was ecstasy. In the wild gallop
I couldn’t get enough of the scented gale by
merely breathing it. and opened the month t«.
gulp it like wine.
There was a dug so kindly at the train this
day that even when lifted by the ears from
tire track back to the guard’s-van he wagged
his tail —a dog who might be the grandson-
puppy of the dog that used to haunt Ted
Torpy’s place at Chillagoe: Ted Torpy who
flattened a man for interrupting while h
was talking on peace, loving-kindness, friend-
ship and the mystery of the stars; Ted
Torpy, who is one of the few old hands un-
able to say again “Come and have a pitch."
If there is another life I’ll find a score
of mates sitting on their hocks or sprawling
bv the billy having a pitch. If there isn’t,
may the gods be with tjie old-timers, anyhow.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Whales and Small Fry.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rpH 10 difficulty of observing the ways of
sea animals has caused a good deal
of misstatement and exaggeration t"
occur when writers have woven these mon-
sters into stories. So whalers have to laugh
at most of the thrilling things that are in
print, including the tale of the killers that
flog a whale till he collapses, or hang on
to his lips while other killers go inside hi-
mouth and eat the tongue. The idea of a
killer, a mere pigmy compared with a 50ft
whale, knocking the whale’s wind out by
smacking him with its tail, or jumping out
of the water and falliug on the whale’s back,
sounds ridiculous, and is ridiculous. The
whale’s lip, too. is not soft. It is like
gristle, and it folds into grooves, so that a
smooth, hard surface is made. It would lie
impossible for any attacker to get a hold upon
it.
Porpoises play around whales and, jumping
out of the water, often land on the mon-
sters’ backs. But the porpoises are friendly
creatures, and the whales do not mind. Ami.
after all, it doesn’t take much of a leap.
The big fellows cruise along, awash like a
log. except for the hump, if it is a hump-
back, and the snout when it is raised, as it
is at times. Otherwise they look like giant
slugs in the waves.
From a distance the jet of water thrown
up when “she spouts” looks quite as attra< -
tive as anything a garden fountain does. But
it is really a dirty fluid, very much the color
of cigarette smoke that has been inhaled.
Another fiction is with regard to the speed
ot the killer. Ho has been called the fastest,
fiercest thing in the waters, the terror of
the seas. The killer, though short and thick,
is fast undouotedly: but a porpoise can run
away from him, as the last oar does from the
bottle-laden week-ender. Sick or disabled
porpoises no doubt fall prey to the killer, but
the usual items on his menu are quite small
fish.
Pelorus and Queen Charlotte Sounds arc
alive with cow-fish, a kind of dolphin, but
larger, and black in color, with a white
under-surface. They meet the steamers and
race them for a time. Their speed seems
very high, yet they soou give up the ebaso.
The speed of all sea-animals has been judged
wropgly from these brief glimpses from
steamers. Even porpoises land they can
touch a speed of 40 miles an hourl cannot
keep pace for long with a 15-knot steamer.
Cow-fish are very fond of play. On a
calm evening, when it is slack water in Tory
<'hannel. they sometimes have sports meet
ings. Only irresponsible youngsters take
any notice of steamers then. A favorite
feat , is for the "fish” to leap straight out
of the water, with nose in the air. for a
height _of about 1 Oft.; then to fall grace-
fully sideways and return to the water wit"
a great splash. In another stunt the.'
bound six feet clear of the tide, turn in
the air. and enter the water on their backs,
their white stomachs gleaming; and the
flukes of the tail as they strike the surface
make a report like a rifle-shot. While
these gymnastics are creating a sensation
among the ladies of the school, the latter-
or the.'' may be smaller fry of both sexes-
are ringing and crowding around with their
lone black fins, looking like the kind <> f
shark-nightmare that comes to swimmers in
their sleep. Alarm them and they fly alow’
the still waters of the Sounds like a semi-
detached cyclone. The surface then i-
churned to a white spray, and the noise of
the flailing is like a waterfall. That E
when they touch 40 miles an hour—por-
poises and cow-fish alike- —and it looks more
than that.
WILL LAWSON.


<3&. REES ROTURBO
rotaryjet condenser
J SEPARATE
WATER SEAL
wA n
O i;
SEPARATE
WATER SEAL
.
Wm> ■
Cross-cut. showing the construction of the Rees Roturoo.
HE Eees Roturbo Rotary Jet
1 Condenser is a UNIT OUT-
FIT and not an assembly of units.
It has ONLY ONE IMPELLER,
which PERFORMS THREE
SEPARATE FUNCTIONS.
(1) Acts as an INJECTION WATER-
PUMP, spraying the Water positively
into the Condenser.
(2) CONDENSES the STEAM and
positively REMOVES the AIR contained
in same.
(3) Positively EJECTS the MIX-
TURE of HOT WATER and AIR to
atmosphere.
THE IMPELLER.
The one and only
running part in
the Rees Roturbo
Condenser. It has
no rubbing con-
tacts. Thus maxi-
mum life is
assured.
WGWATSON &C°L TD
279 Clarence S i Sydney
Gillette
WE are pleased to announce
that, owing to readjust-
ment of prices, Gillette
Safety Razors and Blades are
now quoted as under throughout
Australia.
GILLETTE STANDARD SET.
Heavy Triple-Silverplated Razor
and one dozen Gillette Blades
in neat Leather Case
28/6
Gillette Pocket Edition, Silver-plated Case, 28/0.
Standard Set in Nickel-plated Metal Case, lined
Royal Purple, 32/6.
GILLETTE BLADES, 6/6 per dozen.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR COMPANY, BOSTON, MASS., U.S.A.
S. HOFFNu. 00., Ltd., Sydney, Wholesale Agents.
The most reliable name-
plate in the farm-engine
world.
R.P.M
H.R
PATENTS APPLIED FOR
FAIRBANKS.
MORSE &COJ
ď
mmm
nmmm”
All the “Z” run on
KEROSENE.
1 2 "3-6■ 10 ■ 15 B. H. P.
THE scarcity of petrol doesn’t worry the man who
owns a “Z” Farm Engine. All the “Z” family
are real KEROSENE engines—give “more than rated
power” on this fuel because they are designed for the
job. There’s no messing-up of valves or plugs in a “Z.”
The “Z” is the engine you’ve been seeking for a long time.
It is essentially a simple, easy-to-handle engine, while its mechanical
features are all time and trouble-savers.
Built-in Oscillating; Magneto banishes all ignition troubles
and makes the engine start at the first turn of the handle.
Throttling Governor keeps down your fuel bills and gives
smooth, steady running.
Pump Fuel-Feed does away with “flooding'' dangers and lessens
your Insurance Premiums.
It will pay you to enquire about the “Z'’ right away from any
of the following :
Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd., 9-13 Young Street, Sydney.
J. Bartram & Son Pty. Ltd., 586-588 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., 99 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Malloch Bros., 52-54 William Street, Perth.
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart.


o
ee
s*
isa
o
4
l
m
%
;'W
TheLAGER
Without a Rrtal
Hotel do Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACII
AND GROUNDS.
nALF- HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
eluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Book now for Winter months,
ariif from 15/- per day, or from
334 guineas per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
FRANCIS BIRTLES FILM
ENTERPRISES.
The £.100,000 Company Being Formed.
An All-Australian Company is being
formed for the purpose of exploiting the
Enterprises of Francis Birtles, whose vari-
ous travels across Australia since 1905 are
known throughout the Universe, and many
thousands of feet of film have been secured
which will record further portions of Aus--
tralia's unknown. The films secured by
Francis Birtles to date are worth £lOO,OOO
as an Advertisement of Australia, apart from
the world’s exhibiting rights, which are about
to be exploited. Here is a chance to invest
in an All-Australian Enterprise which is
only in its infancy, but when it grows up it
will be the wealthiest thing in the world.
Anyone interested may obtain all particu-
lars on application to Francis Birtles Film
Enterprises, G.U.0.0.F. Buildings, Sydney,
pending opening of Branches in every State
of the Commonwealth.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
He;: Majesty's “The Sleeping Beauty”
Criterion Carter the Great
Eoyai. . Digger-Pierrots
Palace “Mother Hubbard”
Tivoli “Oddments”
Tiie Playhouse “Mademoiselle Mimi”
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
Town Hall Moiseiwitseli
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Kissing Time”
Royal , “Tilly of Bloomsbury”
King's “Tiger Rose”
Princess's “On Our Selection”
Tivoli “His Little Widows”
The Playhouse The Smart Set Diggers
Hoyt's De Luxe &*Eyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic ... Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures.
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciarium Dancing
♦
''Oddments,” now being served at Sydney
Tivoli, resembles the sort of hasty dinner
the late-shopper offers the head of the house-
hold after she has stayed too long in town.
When the curtain first ascends it reveals a
partially-undressed stage. O. H. Workman
gradually gathers his players around him,
nrl they decide what they are to do for
me amusement of the audience. They go
on just as if the patrons had not already
paid real money at the door. Apparently
ic is intended to make Tivoleans feel at
home; but it only gives them the sensation
of having surprised a theatrical co. stock-
taking in the off-season. It is better for
a light show to get away to a flying start
with ail its clothes on. And once it is
started it should keep off old imported stuff.
Workman, coroneted as a busted English
duke, meets a theatrical duchess wheeling a
perambulator full of groceries which she has
had to buy in order to secure a few ounces
of sugar. These theatrical echoes of Eng-
land’s past leave an Australian audience
cold. Gregory Stroud, a new tenor who
has come to star in ‘‘The Lilac Domino,”
makes a first appearance, and Minnie Love,
Billy Elliott. Lottie Sargent, Clarie Hard-
wicke, C. IL Workman and Billy Rego
keep busy. But the show drags.
The moral reflections of Dame Barry
Lupino keep “Mother Hubbard” prosperous
and the audience simmering at Sydney
Palace. Other sparkling features of the
show are the dancing of Elsie Parkes and
the Mutt and Jeff act of Moon and Morris.
* * sjc *
“The Passing Show of 1920” moves out
of Sydney Majesty’s on Friday night.
On Saturday afternoon “The Sleeping
Beauty” panto, will transfer, bag and bag-
gage, bier and beer, brilliancy and balder-
dash, from Sydney Criterion to the bigger
J.C.W. theatre. Carter, the Magician, who
is said by the J.C.W. management to
“obfuscate the human will,” opens simul-
taneously at the Cri.
#* * *
On Saturday night, in the Sydney Town
Hall, Moiseiwitseli will give the first of a
series of five concerts, the others follow "ng
on May 18, 20, 22 and 25. The way Moisei-
witsch attacked the front teeth of concert
grands in America made some of the New
York critics get up on the housetops and
yell his praises until the American Eagle,
who can scream a bit himself, begged for
mercy. So J. and N. 'fait feel quite confi-
dent about the Australian tour.
At the Playhouse (next to Sydney’s Head
“Tiger Rose," at
Melbourne Kina's.
G. Henry Gordon as
the French-Canadian.
P i r e-s tation),
“M a d e m o i s elle
Mimi” i s getting
out the second edi-
tion.
The Digger-Pier-
rots have indulged
in a change of pro-
gramme a n d a r e
busy collecting
Sydney’s spare sil-
ver at the Royal.
Sydney Lyceum
a n d Haymarket
hold th e winning
cards this week in
“T he. Miracle
M a n,” a saintly
old party who lives
by the eternal sea
and has that gift
of healing in his
hands th a t does
still remain in cer-
tain Cornish and
Irish families.
Four crook s
Burke, the Frog,
Rose and the
Dope—who have been gaining an honest liv-
ing on what may be termed the kitchen lay
of their profession, set out to commercialise
the Patriarch, but become his greatest con-
verts, for the deaf-and-dumb and almost-
blind old man takes their poor, dwarfed,
twisted souls and makes them whole again.
The Miracle Man holds all the of
the picture-world this week. Madge Ken-
nedy goes “Through the Wrong Door” at
the Strand and Lyric, meets the right young
man, who finds that her dad is all wrong,
for the same old chap lias robbed him of
a silver-mine. Young man ’phones dad and
tells him he’ll hold the girl till he once more
has his hand upon the mine. Fate plays
his daring the usual scurvy trick, and pushes
the girl’s board-and-residence expenses upon
him for life. The Crystal Palace is feeling
lonely these weeks without the good
old sex-triangle that used to be its chief
fare. Every night this week is a busy one
with it in ’Frisco’s Chinatown, under Ses-
sile Hayakawa’s leadership. As Luk Chan,
carver-in-chief of the Tong Sessue, he re-
fuses to “do in” Louie Toy. the old man of
his best-girl, fearing matrimonial troubles
later on. Thereafter the film is a succes-
sion of wild flurries and fights on the flat
roofs and in the twisting by-ways of China-
town. The Piccadilly houses “Faith,” “The
She Devil” and “The Roaminv Bath-Tub.”
These chill nights at Melbourne Royal
people get an additional shiver from the re-
pellent hauteur of Sybil Mainwaring sitting
or standing in silent approval of her terrible
ma. Sybil is the most astounding character
in “Tilly of Bloomsbury.” Ostensibly full
of the pride of race, she is also alleged to be
fooling with Socialism and wants to abolish
inequalities by intermarrying the classes
with the masses. Unfortunately the damsel
doesn’t give this capital suggestion a start
by tying herself to the adipose bailiff. That
would have been a brilliant experiment.
* * * *
“Kissing Time” reached the century at
Melbourne Majesty’s on Saturday, and an
audience full of rowing enthusiasts hailed the
event like a fall in prices. The bright and
amorous show, however, cannot grow much
older. Already there is a threat of something
fresh and stupendous to catch the roving eye
of E. Wales.
* sj: :k
Dad and Mum Rudd and all the rest of
“Our Selection” will be on view at Melbourne
Princess’s on Saturday. A cast headed by
Edmund Duggan will undertake to produce
the uproar.
** * *
Pete Lloyd’s 11 wives at Melbourne Tivoli
continue to provide most entertainment for
his two brisk pals who have the joy of kiss-
ing them without the burden of their bills.
For Pete himself there is no pleasure in the
"THE SLEEPING BEAUTY ,” AT
SYDNEY CRITERION.
Bill and Walter (Egbert Bros.) as the
Bogus Eastern Musicians.
contract, especially as one of his problems
weighing about 13 stone insists on squatting
on his knee and losing him for hours in her
large embrace.
•fi '!* *
At Melbourne King’s Tiger Rose promises
to develop bushranger’s elbow through point-
ing a revolver at the head of the policeman all
night. The effort necessary to keep a Colt
erect for six or seven hours must be enor-
mous, but Rose is sustained in her feat by
the determination to save her soft-headed
hero. Which reveals again the power of
woman’s love. If she had been asked to sit
all night holding up as much as a darning-
needle for her ma she would have pointed out
the utter impossibility of it.
* >|! * *
Next Saturday the Taits introduce a new
team of Digger entertainers at Melbourne
Playhouse. This crowd is styled the Original
Dinkum Diggers, but whether to distinguish
them from the Dinkums who are not Original,
or the Originals who are not Diggers, or the
Diggers who are not Dinkum, this paper has
to wait to find out.
Madia in Traverse, a few villains and a
diamond miue are calling the faithful to
Hoyt’s m Melbourne this week. The story,
entitled “Lost Money,” scampers over the
African veldt, or the nearest imitation of
veldt scenery that can be discovered in Cali-
fornia. Dorothy Dalton appears in a
gambling hell as “The Lady of Red Butte,”
but insufficient unto the film is the Dorothy
thereof. Peggy Hyland is more successful as
the fetching sec. of a detective agency in
“The Web of Chance” at Hoyt’s Lyceum.
When a big firm is victimised and the wrong
man accused, Peggy is the compensationT’or
his wounded honor and snaps him up before
he can change his mind. The Selzuick people
at the Melba continue their efforts to stun
the public. The latest sandbag is “The
Country Cousin,” an elaborately-set picture
with Elaine Hammerstein in the leading part.
The Britannia, which started “One Hour” for
a three-days’ run on Monday, offers to-day
“A Gentleman Rider,” in which horseflesh is
the piece dc resistance and Violet Hopson the
principal dessert
* * :’s *
More Melbourne pictures :
The work of Misses F. and H.. Irvine and A. S.
Henderson, now shown in 150 or more pictures at
Melbourne Athenaeum, varies greatly in quality. The
best of the trio is Miss H. Irvine, whose showy
French technique shrieks its origin in jazzes of ver-
digris and Lewis and IVhitty’s blue. In portraits
“The Little Widows ,” at Melbourne Tivoli.
Lucinda, one of the widows (Kitty
Burlowe).
in oils Miss Irvine
has a weakness for
livid flesh and un-
healthy half-tunes,
especially notable in
“A Young Girl”; but
she achieves a warmer
effect in fhe carefully
posed “Provcnc.ile.”
Most of Miss F. Ir-
vine’s subjects arc
rather second-rate, and
she shows a lack of
artistic conscience by
hanging up an atrocity
like “La Parisienne,”
and repeating th e
crime in “A French
Girl” (No. 124). As
for Miss Henderson, it
can only be mercifully
said that she is an
ardent practitioner.
Claude M. Haydon proved in “Paolo and
Francesca,” staged at Melbourne Playhouse
last week, that he understands his business
as a composer. His music runs on rather
orthodox lines, but it is full of sensuous color
and melody, and is particularly charming
for a couple of delicate airs sung by Paolo
off-stage. In actual production, however,
the opera suffered from the crudities of ama-
teurs wanting in histrionic expression. Eric
Turnbull, stiff and skimpy as Paolo, allowed
his clear voice to be half-murdered by ner-
vous apprehension. Also his legs were de-
tained by semi-paralysis when be wanted
them to hurl him into the arms of Fran-
cesca. Wm. Murison warbled better as
Giovanni, but appeared crushed by the
responsibility of his sudden promotion to
whiskers. Robert Sterling, who doffed the
beard of Malatesta for the romantic side-
boards of Guido whenever occasion de-
manded, is short of stage deportment, but
made both parents vocally effective. Donald
Cameron’s impish wickedness as Beppo
showed that he had a dramatic sense. Leslie
Halstead’s Stephano was reduced in artistic
stature by a pair of awkward legs; but he
sang confidently, like the two contraltos,
Miss Mayberry and Miss Mack, who were
Nanna on different nights. Miss Phyllis
Ashley, whose singing was attractive, Would
have been absolutely fetching as Francesca
but for her diffidence. Probably She would
have been shaken out of that state by a
stronger Paolo; on the other hand, he might
have developed animation if she had owned
a restorative personality. J. B. North
handled the modest orchestra with tremend-
ous vigor, but a bigger band and the pro-
vision of choruses for Acts 2 and 4 would
have-given the audience a better chance to
perceive the opera’s Quality.
•f * * *
Ross Smith has now started as a regular
every-night lecturer. The most surprising
feature of his season at .Adelaide Town Hall
is that the audience sees or hears nothing
of him in person till 9.30, an hour when most
lecturers are shutting up for the night. The
fact is that the tour begins at the end and
goes on to the beginning, so to speak. Hur-
ley’s moving pictures, from Charleville to
the Smith family’s verandah in Adelaide,
take up the first and larger half of the even-
ing. The first really hearty applause goes
to the Commonwealth £lO,OOO cheque; but
it is beaten by that which greets the four
£2500 cheques into which Ross divided the
prize, all who shared the peril sharing
equally in . the reward. The lecture itself,
when it arrives, is illustrated by a mixture
of moving and stationary photographs, with
a few fancy drawings, as of the hawk in
India which nearly wrecked the whole tour.
The Union Theatres Co. runs the show.
Emelie Polini at Adelaide Royal turns to
“Kindling” as an artistic change from the
breezy “Little Damozel.” She is fortunate
in her support. Better acting is seldom seen
than that of Kay Souper, Norman Pearce
and Fitzherbert as they sit at table negotia-
ting their unholy marriage contract; and
Brooking is so consistently funny that he
has difficulty in getting the audience to take
him seriously in the last act. But he man-
ages it. At. the Majestic Vaude and Verne
have some up-to-date patter, Ruth Bucknell
uplifts an effective soprano, and Coco and
Evans, two finely-trained figures: also there
is much good music. The Bailey' and Grant
season continues at the Tivoli, with Edmund
Duggan giving two thoughtful studies of Dad
at different ages. A new English comedy
co. is promised at this house shortly.
Many people think that Napoleon Bof-
fard has turned dancing master. With tears
in his eyes Napoleon denies the rumor. He
is merely stage-managing the dance stances
of Voco.
Even though he can’t get the Prince for
a Tivoli matinee, Hugh Mclntosh has no
iutention of dropping out of the hunt. He
is president of the British Empire League
in this country, and hasty steps are being
taken by him and the Mayor to form a Vic.
branch. If the new body Emps hard enough
it is hoped that the Prince will at least deign
to throw a smile in its direction.
“C. Ockney”: “Humanity,” the John
Lawson sketch, was originally an act in a
play of the same title by John Douglass, a
well-known London melodrama-writer, who
with his brother Richard for many years ran
the Standard Theatre. Bishopsgate, long
since turned into a vaudeville house. Lawson
bought the rights of the play for the sake
of the one scene, and for many years it has
made him an enviable living.
“E.T.”: The Chester Cup, the first long-
distance handicap of the English flat-racing
season, has gone to a theatrical owner —a
prize worth annexing, too. Our Stephen,
the winner, a son of the noted Irish per-
former St. Brendan, is the property of Frank
Curzon, who for close on 30 years has been
a London manager. He is the present lessee
of Wyndham’s Theatre, which he runs in
partnership with Gerald du Maurier. Cur-
zon, originally an actor, made his first big
money when he bought the touring rights
of the whirling farce “Tom, Dick and
Harry” from Charles Hawtrey, and since
then fortune has consistently smiled.
A note from Moses Baritz, a well-known
Manchester critic, lately in Australia: —
When in Maoriland some time ago I wrote a
criticism of the J.C.W. Grand Opera Co.,
and referred to the beauty of the voice
of Browning Mummery. Really this young
man should be taken in hand by some good
teacher, and if possible sent to Europe. Mummery
worked at a machine bench not so very long ago and
is Frank Rigo’s best find. With the little training
he has had so far, he is showing much range. Your
other outstanding young artist is Gertrude Johnston.
Her Gilda and Lucia were both admirable. Her
rendering of “Regnava hel Silenzio’’ aixl the Mad
Scene from “Lucia di Lammermoor” approached real
prima donna class, not newspaper flim-flam. Both
artists are Australians, and lustre is awaiting this
country if Mummery in particular is persevered with.
Stillness steeped iu sunshine, greyly-
green for miles around, with great gums that
seem to muse over a group of humans busy
about a half-tumbling two-roomed humpy on
a small clearing in the foreground. A queer-
looking house this, for it has no roof to
keep out the weather —only a gauze top
that is pulled on and off- as directed by an
alert, worried-looking man in the foreground.
A comfortable, motherly-looking figure, with
black skirt topped by a blue dressing-jacket;
a drooping, spectral figure, grey-whis-
kered and sunken-eyed, looking something
like a ghostly ring-barked gum; a lean and
furrow-brown six-foot young man; a tousle-
headed young larrikin—this strange congre-
gation doesn’t seem to find the house queer
at all. They dash continuously in and
out of its openings, while two large
sheets of zinc in front are shifted according
to their movements and the vagaries of the
sun ; and in between these sun-reflectors, a
camera-man “shoots” or “fades” the scene
as directed by the alert, worned-looking man
who is busy with Dad and Mum and Dave
and Joe and the midwife who has come to
assist the twins into the world; for this
is the cinematographing of Steele Rudd’s
“On Our Selection” within 20 miles of
Sydney. All the figures in the film are
dinkum Australian. Joe Ahvays-in-Trouble
stopped selling newspapers at the Quay to
become an actor-bloke, and the crazy Jim of
the book was found driving a carrier’s cart.
He faces the sheet without make-up—hat.
whiskers, hair and all. And Betty Cashel
and Phyllis Agnew, two independent young
Australians, aged two and three weeks
respectively, have each nearly paid mother
back for her outlay on their layettes.


m
m
«
ami
FOX
m
FOX
®S
FOX
FOX
OX
M
x
GUARANTEED
BRITISH
PCI RE 1
WOOI.
m
mm
this
FOX
'Bmnd
mtmm
m
n
n
10
9
9
5
8
Uvstcbx
AMERICA
16 Q
L r **»ciftcnto
Westclox —America
One alarm clock has
proved that it is possible
to combine dependability
with low price—VVestclox
Arnerica.
This tidy little time-
piece was built for go
rather than show, but in
its class it more than holds
its own for looks.
It’s a staunch, brisk,
wide-awake clock that
rings on the minute, and
is on the minute when
it rings. A clock that
knows the high standards
set by Westclox and up-
holds them loyally for
the sake of the name on
its dial and tag.
Big Ben, 25/ -; Baby Ben, 251 -; Sleep-Meter, 15/ -; America, 10/ 6;
Jack o’Lanlern, 22/6; Baby Ben Luminous, 32/6; Glo-Ben, 20/-;
Boyproof 12/6
WESTERN CLOCK CO., LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
A
ilateHN*
rrrr.
■;g
mm
’
y '•;
a';-;'*
ill
/
&
This self-stropping
Safety Razor saves
its cost in twelve
months.
Because it strops itself, the
blades last indefinitely.
Because a stropped blade is always sharp,
you get a perfect shave.
Because it is so simple, it can’t go wrong.
Because there is nothing to unscrew or detach,
the stropping takes 12 seconds and the clean-
ing less.
Because its ingenuity cannot be described by
diagram, you should ask your dealer to show
you one.
“VALET”
Safety Razor
Strops Itself
STANDARD SET (No. 1)
consists of heavily silver-plated
self-stropping “Valet” Safety
Razor, twelve specially-tc-sted
“Valet” blades, and “Valet”
strop, the whole in handsome
Leather-covered Case .... 27/6
Solid Nickel Case ...... 30/-
Sole Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY,
Denison House, Sydney.


Quality
In nothing does Quality count so much as
in Diamonds. STEWART DAWSON’S
are the largest cash purchasers of precious
stones in the Commonwealth, and the
stability of their Diamond Ring Values is
recognised by thousands of clients.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS.
Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
PERTH (Aust.).
REGENT STREET (LONDON).
STEWART DAWSON’S
Largest -Jewellers of the Empire.
GB74—Fine
Quality Diamond
Cluster Bing, set in
Platinum and 18-ct.
Gold, £2O
K3ll—Dainty Two-
Stone Diamond
Crossover Ring, set
in Platinum and
18-ct. Gold,
£lO/10/-
K3s2—Fine Quality
Diamond Crossover
Ring, set in Pure
Platinum and 18-ct.
Gold, £l7/10/-
K3s7—Fine Pear]
and Diamond
Cluster Ring, set in
Pure Platinum und
18-et. Cold,
£l2/10/-
K432—New Style
Diamond Cluster
filng, set in Pure
Platinum and 18-ct.
Gold. *l5/10/- .
K43o—Beautiful
Design, set with
First Quality
Diamonds ia Pure
Platinum and 18-et.
Gold, £B5
K92S—New Design
Cluster Ring, Finest
Quality Diamonds,
set in Pure Platinum
and 18-et. Gold,
£35
Diamonds.
Call at any of the Stewart Dawson
Establishments and inspect their beauti-
ful assortment of Diamond Ring Designs,
which is continually being added to.
Remember only high-grade stones have a
permanent value.
All Diamonds set in Pure Platinum.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS.
Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRIST-
CHURCH, DUNEDIN (N.Z.).
HATTON GARDEN (LONDON).
STEWART DAWSON’S
Write for Latest Catalogue.
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
[?]
POVERTY
POINT
Frederick Ward, who had almost aban-
doned the playwright’s pen for a pick or
something equally useful, has made one more
attempt to convince the local mannger that
the local dramatist should be allowed to live.
His latest play. “The Rat," will be produced
by the Sydney University Dramatic Society
at a Sydney theatre towards the end of May.
The piece has an Australian atmosphere
and a political setting.
“Wessel”: Not satisfied with some fine
examples of real comic opera, Darwin is
going to try the stage variety. The Choral
Society has decided to put on “The Mikado”
as the most suitable. If the ex-official who
used to act as Government secretary, sheriff
public trustee, protector of aborigines, mem-
ber of the Land Board, and 17 other things,
is available, he shouldn’t want much re-
hearsal for Pooh-Bah.
“Stargazer”: The rise of Gertrude .Tohn-
ston makes a record
among Australian
singers of the
higher ' flights, I
should say. A few
months ago she
was a Con. stu-
dent. A member of
the lately-disman-
tled opera co.,
looking for a star,
heard her as a for-
-10 r n hope and
pounced. Yet Melba
had never Hi e
smallest apprecia-
tion of this pupil.
In a brief year she
has jumped to a
leading place in
grand opera,
knocked N. S.
Wales, Queensland,
Victoria and
M.L., and now em-
barks on a concert
tour in Maoriland
to last eight weeks,
and at a price that
would gladden the
heart of any singer
in this hemisphere.
She has been put
forth as a Melba
pupil. But Melba
would not have her
“Oddments,” at
Sydney Tivoli.
’Arry Slow (C . H.
Workman ), charged
with living up to his
name by Captain
Rego.
at Albert-street, which merely shows how
even the Most High err.
“Norbell”: When Jimmy Atholwood first
had grease-paint yearnings he went to learn
the dramatic art from Hoskins, the veteran
Shakspearean mummer who had been Irving’s
mentor. The old chap was lying on a sofa,
and in a querulous falsetto told Atholwood
to recite something. Jimmy struck an atti-
tude, and started in on “To be, or not to
be,” whilst Hoskins lay there with closed
eyes and a pained expression. When he’d
finished Hoskins never moved, so Jimmy
went ahead with Richard’s “Now is the
winter of our discontent” speech. Still no
signs of life from Hoskins. Then Jimmy
fired off the “too, too solid flesh” soliloquy
and half a dozen other speeches, apostrophes
and declamatory outbursts, and stopped for
want of breath. Then the old man opened
one eye, and said: “And who the d’ye
think you’re imitating?”
“Help”: It is suggested (B. 6/5/’2O) that
if the Fullers have any sense of humor they
must be smiling at the Melbourne press-
eensorship of their innocuous mellowdrama,
“The Unmarried Mother.” As a matter of
fact, the firm has been enjoying the joke
from another aspect. When the dailies re-
fused to advertise their show at the Palace
the brethren withdrew their customary Bijou
advertisements, and a few days later received
a summons for overcrowding the theatre —
the first that has come along for four years!
The spasm of righteousness with which the
Melbourne press has been afflicted has since
caused th<j ’Erai.o to refuse advts. for “A
Girl’s Temptation,” on the occasion of the
umpteenth revival of that preposterous but
otherwise inoffensive play, which in the by-
no-means-distant past was advertised and
handed the usual helping of butter in the
news columns. If the papers persist in cen-
soring foolish plays on the strength of their
titles the Fullers are going to save a heap
of advertising expenditure, for the names
of three delicacies recently purchased by the
firm are “The Unborn Child,” “Should a
Wife Refuse?” and “How Far Can a Girl
Go?”
“Wanderer”: Are we never again going
to have anything
but Yankee films?
Europe is pro-
ducing : there was
a constant supply
from French and
Italian studios on
the programmes of
Cairo picture-
houses last year.
The French are in-
imitable at the
comedy of manners.
And not even Grif-
fiths has beaten the
Italians in the
massed movementof
the big scenarios.
The Italians are
the picture-makers
of the future; they
have emotionalism
as a birthright. The
Neapolitan climate,
too, is admirable
Digger-Pierrots at
Sydney Royal.
G. P. Manna in his
sketch , “The Padre.”
for production. As
for advertising, their picture-posters made
the Cairo hoarding a veritable art gallery.
“Puff”: The theatrical publicity man must
suffer much heartache if he ever pauses to
note how deaf the world remains to his
trumpeting. Probably no actress has been
more boomed in England and America than
Laurette Taylor, wife of Hartley Manners,
the author of “Peg o’ My Heart,” and “crea-
tor” of the leading rdles in her husband’s
plays. Yet of the three Melbourne dailies
only the Argus appears to have heard of
the lady; so that when a cable was received
relating to a riot that occurred at the Lon-
don Garrick at the first performance of one
of Manners’s plays, in which the lady was
appearing, the Age interpreted it as refer-
ring to “Mr. Laurette and Miss Taylor, of
the famous ‘Peg o’ My Heart’ company,”
and the Herald repeated the blunder. The
Age announced that “Mr. Laurette attempted
to placate the disturbers,” and the Herald
mentioned that the outburst was attributed
to “Mr. Laurette’s behavior over the air
raids.”
“Copabella”: Posters, paragraphs and
films of an allegedly Australian story fea-
ture a cowboy-bushranger figure flashing a
“gun”—not an old-fashioned Colt or der-
ringer of the Roaring Days, but a Browning
automatic, which must date not farther back
than about 1905. I have battled in some
of the roughest parts of Monaro, Riverina,
the Dargo, among the hatters of played-out
diggings, with grass-duffing drovers and
dearskin-branding cockies where station and
selection meet and fight in the Upper Mur-
ray. hills, followed one or two rushes and
joined a railway-construction camp or two,
and not once have I seen a Browning flash.
The “gun” never was the arm of the bush.
The pickhandle, the beer bottle, the bare
fist—-yes; even a clasp-knife when the
Italians got warm. But never the six-
shooter. In several years’ roughing it I
struck only two men known to carry revol-
vers. One was a mine manager, a Yank;
the other a storekeeper in a rough mining
camp who had to carry some £2(X) or £3OO
in the pocket of his dungarees to change the
mine’s paper money. Both were regarded as
“no class” for doing it. If in order to have
a chance to “get across” in America it is
necessary to introduce this red-shirted, top-
booted, Browning-pointing anachronism,
righto! .1 don’t mind. But don’t miscall
the thing Australian. Even our national
“heroes” —the Kellys, Morgan. Ben Hall
and co. —used either Winchesters or shot-
guns.
“M. 8.”: Barry Lupino has added another
virtue to his rble of amusing the public.
He is now out to educate benighted actors
in political economy, and in a pamphlet
called “The Actor as Worker” he dilates
upon value and surplus-value with the inti-
macy of an old hand. On the history of
the profession Lupino is wonderfully well
informed. His library on the subject makes
one jealous to view it. He possesses rare
prints and programmes that would make a
Quaritch envious. It is the knowledge he
is so full of that is impelling him to write
a book on “The Industrial Revolution and
the Theatrical Profession,” or something
such. It will essay an explanation of the
rise of industry and its relation to the drama
and music-hall entertainments. Barry leaves
for England within the next three months.
For two seasons I have seen him in panto-
mime. Next December he is to appear as
principal comedian in the Theatre Royal
panto, in Manchester (Eng.). Being on
my way, I hope to see him there. One thing
is certain —he will not get a more enthusi-
astic audience than those I have seen him
play to in Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide.
That is impossible.
“Hamfat”: Suburban Sydney, which has
been used to shows that are either lurid
bellowdrama or impolite vaudeville, is going
to be given an introduction to Shakspearc.
Stanley McKay, who borrows the idea from
Ben Greets’s Shakspearean Company, which
gives performances to students and colleges
in London, is arranging the introduction,
and has the sympathy of the Director of
Education, who is going to give the young-
sters at the schools in the centre visited
leave on the afternoon when the perform-
ance is to occur.
Moses Baritz, the Manchester critic who,
when he isn’t talking music is expounding
socialism and universal brotherhood, is mov-
ing on from Australia, to which he was de-
ported from Mnorilnnd. When Baritz, a
man of tremendous learning, wants to pass
on to another country, he drifts down to the
docks and gets a job in a ship going that
way. This time he wants to return to Eng-
land and Manchester, so he found a job on
the Commonwealth-owned Gilgai as a
steward, and when last heard from was at
Fremantle. Even at Fremantle, in what he
supposed was a lurid melodrama, he found
something worth hearing The first scene
was on its way when one of the characters
said, apropos of nothing, “Now, Sexton
Blake, give us a song,” and Sexton Blake
obliged with a “charming Irish song” that
sent Baritz back to his stewarding quite
happy. There w'ere no programmes, but he
learned that the singer was a locally well-
known stock actor, Bill Hare.
“C. Ockney”: Lionel Rignold, cousin to
George and William, and himself for some
time in Australia, died in England recently,
and left £34,000 behind him. This is £4OOO
less than H. B. Irving’s fortune. Very few
comedians of the second rank have, however,
amassed such a pile. A clause in his will
reads: “I most sincerely desire that there
should be no possibility of my being buried
alive or put under ground alive, or in a
trance, and there should be the most un-
doubted proof of my death.”
“E.T.”: When J. L. Toole was touring
Australia he had to sustain a reputation as
a practical joker, too. So as “a little Christ-
mas present” he sent his old friend Henry
Irving two frozen sheep and a live kan-
garoo. The Too found a home at the Regent's
Bark Zoo, and a costermongers’ club at Mile
End feasted on the mutton.
“Norbell”: At half-time at the pictures
last night the endless stream of Yankee
“sob-stuff” was mercifully suspended to
allow of the exhibition of an arresting legend
“Buy only Australian-made goods.” Then
the programme was resumed, the humorous
management continuing its dribble of Mur-
kan films.
“T. D. K.udee” : The two best-remembered
stage doorkeepers in Sydney were Dad Sea-
grave and Charlie Burford, the former for
years Cerberus at; the old Theatre Royal,
the latter at Her Majesty’s. Seagrave,
though he suited his ways to the applicant,
was as impervious to flattery as he was to
the charm of a bribe: he could not forget
that the dignity of the profession was in
his keeping. He had two actor-sons, Charley
and Billy. A fine hand at “holding the
book,” Billy was a sound actor, too, when
he got the chance. He was invariably the
cabman in “The Silver King,” dropping the
book to saunter on and speak his lines.
Billy: looked more like a prize-fighter than
an actor. He could punch a bit, too, though
super-master Anderson of Melbourne Royal
could punch harder. But that is another
story. Burford, who acted with G. V.
Brooke, was Australia’s most detested villain,
and one of the best all-rounders of the
early days. Most stage-door keepers are
recruited from the ranks of theatricals. The
Sydney Tivoli is an exception, “Old Mac”
being an ex-schoolmaster, with a dry wit and
a passion for chess, of which he was one of
Sydney’s best-known players before he took
to the stage-door.
“Nosnibor”: Re “M.B.’s” par (B.
15/4/’2O) that arrangements have been
for the making of phonograph records in
Australia, and that an expert is to be im-
ported from U.S A. to superintend construc-
tion. I spent my Easter holidays with T. D.
“Oddments,” at
Sydney Tivoli.
Billy Elliott (the
Black Prince).
Smith, of MapletoE,
via Nambour (Q.),
an orchardist who.
in his spare time,
in his own work-
shop, constructed a
phonograph record-
making machine
from melted-down
sewing-machine ma-
terial and scraps of
brass, etc. The re-
cords are repro-
duced faithfully
on an ordinary
phonograph. The
same Australian
mechanical genius
has also invented
a mechanical fly-
trap which is much
superior to any fly-
catcher on the mar-
ket. On submit-
ting the perfectly-
working model to
some business men
he was told that
“the cost of manu-
facture in Austra-
lia would be pro-
hibitive," so this
particular model is
going to America,
where it will be
turned out in mil-
lions and bought by
Austrnlians. Mean-
while, in accord-
ance with the Australian policy of doing
everything for primary production, and no-
thing to speak of for manufactures, Smith
potters around making a living out of
oranges.
“Orb” : Jefferson Taite, now at the Newtown
Majestic (Sydney), has committed more
crimes than almost any other Australian
mummer. For years past he has made a
weekly change of iniquity. On his rare
visits to the inner city he detects himself
snarling “Curse you, die!” to perfectly inno-
cuous flappers who bump into him outside
the glad-rag emporiums. He only realises
his mistake when the bumped female doesn’t
retort, “You forget, a wife cannot give
evidence against her husband!” And, of
course, the policeman on point duty never
arrests him as he should. People will not
take up their cues in real life.
Will Rogers, the lasso-thrower, who was
aU over Australia and M.L. with Wirths’
Circus in 1903, has developed into one of
America’s chief humorists of the stage. He
talks all the while when “roping,” and uses
different jokes—mostly based on the day’s
newspaper—at every show. “A joke don’t
have to be near as funny if it’s up to date,”
he finds.
“Jean S.”: Related of Ethan Allan, who
wears the red coat of a blameless policeman
in “Tiger Rose” at Melbourne King’s, that
he once cowboyed in the U.S., and was noted
for an’ arctic nonchalance for which William
Hart and Tom Mix would like to have the
recipe. One yarn alleges that one evening
he dropped from his breathless mustang into
a saloon fight in New Mexico, and before
he had time to declare his intentions a Colt
spat half-a-pound of lead, which flattened
out like a star of the Garter behind his left
ear. Ethan merely picked the decoration
off the wall, and, handing it to its recent
owner, politely remarked: “Yours, I believe.”
THE PASSIVE DESISTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My neighbor Jobson is as rich
As I am passing poor.
The wealth that to his coffers strays
Seems quite at home, so there it stays.
Acquaintances deplore
The fact that none’s been known to see
The color of his £ s. d.
The torture that is suffered by
Poor victims who disgorge
Good coin to sneeze in draughty halls,
What time a foggy basso bawls
Or thin sopranos forge
False notes, shrewd Jobson does not know,
For he to concerts will not go.
When to tlie racecourse I repair
He stays within his home.
He garners no rheumatic pain
Through chasing losers in the rnin;
Not- does he ever roam
Where citizens thick heads acquire
By swapping cash for Bacchic fire.
They call him “Skinflint," pointing out
That he disdains to go
Where Mclntosh, the Firm and Tait
Stage pleasures; but myself, of lute, .
Have come full well to know,
By gazing on his life serene,
The wisdom of the happy mean!
VIOTOniA.
HARRISON O.
GOOD-NIGHT ALL!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am going to bed for a thousand years and I don't
want to hear a sound ;
I am weary to death of the profiteers and their
prices that leap and bound;
The world has gone off on a jazzing trip and is
lost in Halls of Space,
So I’m going to let the old football rip and climb
to a soft, warm place.
Some men rest well on a high, cold bench and sleep
in a wig all day;
The soldier drowses in hole or trench, and the
swaggie snores in the hay;
The Upper House like a boudoir seems, till the last
dull word’s been said.
Then the dear old chaps must rise from their dreams
and toddle off home to bed.
I am tired of the Show and it’s sick of me, so it’s
time that we 6aid good-night.
Ah! that snow'-white pillow is good to see as it waits
in the candle-light!
Let no milkman clash, let no rooster crow when some
transient dawn appears;
Tell the boss from me it’6 my watch below and I’ve
gone for a thousand years.
N.B.W.
KODAX.


£2200
Cash
SUN-RAYSED
BIRTHDAY
STUNT
£2200
Cash
EVERY PERSON IN AUSTRALIA who eats
SUN-RAYSED Fruit and “Normey” Confectionery
has an opportunity of winning
THE FIRST PRIZE - £lOOO CASH
or participating in the distribution of the smaller
prizes.
WHAT IS THE QUESTION?
The question is: WHAT IS THE MOST POPULAR AUS-
TRALIAN BIRTHDAY DATE?
CAN ANY ONE PERSON IN AUSTRALIA SEND IN ANY NUMBER
OF ENTRIES?
Yes, frequent entries are requested, BUT as each person nas
only ONE f;irth~date, therefore, ONLY ONE ENTRY from each
counts in solving the above question.
WHAT ADVANTAGE IS THERE THEN IN A PERSON ENTERING
FREQUENTLY?
This, that should his or her date happen to be the most popular,
such conclusion to be arrived at by a greater number of
individuals having “recorded their vote” for that particular day
than for any other day, the advantage of entering early and
often would then appear, as, naturally, the person having the
greatest number of entries under the most popular date will be
declared the winner.
WHAT CHANCE OF WINNING THE FIRST PRIZE OF £lOOO
HAS A PERSON ENTERING, SAY, TWICE AGAINST ANOTHER
ENTERING A THOUSAND TIMES?
THE SAME CHANCE EXACTLY, for unless the person with the
greater number of entries is fortunate enough to have been born
on the most popular day (in the decision of which HIS 1000
ENTRIES WOULD COUNT BUT ONE) he could have bought
up the WHOLE SUN-RAYSED PACK without participating
in any prize-money whatever.
THEREFORE
a girlie aged 6, by investing the contents of her money-box,” is just
as likely to win as a bachelor of 96 who invests a lifetime’s savings.
Fill in your Birthday Date and your name and address-
I was born on the day of
and. on that day each year I will always eat some Sun-Raysed
Fruit or “Normey” Confectionery.
„ •
Name—Mr., Mrs., Miss
Adclress (very clearly and fully)
State
Post to C. J. De Garis, Director of Publicity, A.D.F.A.,
Mildura, Vic.
Competitor MUST insert actual date of his or her birthday (day
and month). The Year need not be mentioned.
CONDITIONS.—Attach to Entry—Grocer’s genuine docket at retail rates for 31b.
SUN-RAYSED FRUITS (lib. each of Currants. Sultanas and
Lexias) or for three 1/- Cartons of the “GOOD LITTLE NORMEY”
Confectionery (crystallised or chocolate covered).
If “Normeys” bought from Confectioner, who gives NO DOCKET,
then attach sections of 3 empty cartons instead of docket (that side
of the carton on which is printed the reference to the Recipe Book).
Dockets must state “SUN-RAYSED’’ FRUITS or “NORMEY” Confec-
tionery ; otherwise entry will be disqualified.
Competitors may send in as many Entries as they please, each entry to have docket
attached. The entry to be in the form above, and may be written,
printed or typed.
NOTE.—If any difficulty in getting supplies, post us 3s. (by Postal
Note or Money Order) and we will send you value in
Raysed side-lines, together with necessary docket. If sending
postage stamps, send 3s. 3d.
Contest finally closes 30th September (postmark on envelope),
but you should send in every month—to win the monthly prizes
or £lOO per month.
Address all Entries to
C. J. De Garis, Director of Publicity, A.D.F.A., Mildura, Vic.,
whose decisions in the whole matter of the Contests shall be Final and
Absolute.
TOTAL PRIZES ARE—lst, £lOOO ; 2nd. £250; 3rd. £100; 4th, £5O. 400 Prizes of
10/- each, and 4 monthly Cash Prizes of £lOO for the winners for the separate
periods ending 31st May, 30th .Tune, 31st July and 31st August. Such £lOO
to be divided as follows: —
First, £5O; Second, £25; and 25 Prizes of £1 each.
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
—«
FIFTY-FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS TO
THE SHAREHOLDERS.
-The Directors have pleasure in submitting herewith for the information of Share-
holders the Balance-sheet of the Bank as on 29th March, 1920, also statements of Profit
and Loss and the Reserve Fund on the same date.
The Balance of Profit and Loss for the year ended 29th March. 1920,
amounts to .. .. ..
out of which an Interim Dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, per
annum was paid in November last
leaving
from which it is proposed to pay a Dividend at the rate of io
per cent, per annum . . .. .. .. .. .. i^o.uuu
to transfer to Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . . . 30|000
and to reduce Bank Premises Account by .. .. .. .. 5,000 60,000 0 0
the balance .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £2,694 8 1
added to the Balance of Profit and Loss Account on 31st March.
1919, now transferred to this year’s account .. . . . . 13,877 2 4
makes the amount to be carried forward £16,571 5 5
During the year we have purchased on favorable terms the business of The Aus-
tralian Deposit and Mortgage Bank, Limited, including that Bank’s Premises at 267
Collins Street, Melbourne, where a Branch was opened on 2nd January last, with every
promise of a successful future.
Agencies of the Moorook Brunch have been opened at Cobdogla and Kingston-on -
Murray.
Of the members of our Staff who enlisted for Military Service there are only two
who have not yet received their military discharge. The others (except those who
made the supreme sacrifice, and those who have resigned from the Bank's service) have
resumed duty, and are performing their work in a creditable manner notwithstanding
the disturbing war'experiences through which they have passed.
The General Annual Meeting will be held in the Boardroom at the Head Office of the
Bank. King William Street, Adelaide, on Wednesday, sth May, 1920, at 12 o’clock noon,
at which the Shareholders will be called upon to elect two Directors, in place of George
Brookman, Esq., and James Richard Fowler, Esq., who retire by rotation, and, being
eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Shareholders will have to elect two Auditors for the ensuing year, and to fix
the remuneration of the retiring Auditors.
£87,094 3 .1
25,000 O U
£62,094 3 1
BALANCE-SHEET, 29th March, 1920.
LIABILITIES.
To C'apitul paid up £500,000 0 0
Reserve fund .. 570,000 0 0
Profit and Loss 70,571 0 6
£1,140,571 5 3
Notes In circulation . . .. 7,519 0 0
Bills in circulation .. . . 158,050 12 0
Balances due to other Banks .. 02,072 2 1
Deposits . . . . . . . . 0,380,050 (i 5
Interest accrued on fixed de-
posits and rebate on bills dis-
counted,. ' 72,983 G 8
£7,827,252 12 7
ASSKTB.
By specie, bullion,
and cash bal-
ances. . . . £208,309 10 8
Australian notes 040,184 0 0
Government de-
bentures .. 622,180 2 8
Imperial Govern- ' '
ment Treasury
bills .. .. 1,450,000 0 «
Municipal deben-
tures 1,875 0 0
Money at short
call .. . . 310,000 0 0
Bank bills pur-
chased . . 559,809 18 0
Balances due
from other
banks .. 275,204 8 7
Notes of other
banks . . 739 0 0
Remittances in
transitu .. 273,4-10
.24,342,048 9 4
Bank premises and furniture . . 157,752 19 3
Wheat advances account . . . . 428,815 7 4
Bills receivable and all other
advances .. .. . . 2,898,035 10 8
£7,527.25gi3 r
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
Year from 31st March, 1919, to 29th March. 1920.
To Reserve Fund, as
below .. .. £15,000 0 0
Dividend in May,
1919 .. .. 25.000 0 0
Dividend in Novem-
ber, 1919 .. 25,000 0 0
— £65,000 0 0
Balance 70,571 5 5
£141,571 5 5
By balance 31st March, 1919
Net profit, includ-
ing recoveries, and
after making pro-
vision for bad and
doubtful debts,
interest accrued
on fixed deposits,
and rebate on
bills discounted,
and expenses at •
Head Office and 53
branches, includ-
ing salaries, rents,
etc. .. ..£96,564 4
Less land and income
taxes, £8715/1/1;
Note tax, £l-55 .. 8,870 1
. . £53,877 2 4
2
1 -O' 1 ■; '
£87,604 3 1
£141.571 5 0
RESERVE FUND.
To balance at this date .. ..£570,000 0 0
£670.000 0 0
By balance 31st
T ransfer from
May, 1919
March, 1919 ..£555,000 9 0
Profit and Loss,
15,000 0 0
£570,000 0 0
JOHN SHIELS, Manager.
W. I>. COTTRELL. Accountant.
ARTHUR WATERHOUSE
HOWARD W. LLOYD
A. O. RYMILL
Directors.
We have compared the above Balance Sheet withe the Books and Accounts of The Bank of Adelaide
for the Tear ending 29th March, 1920, and certify that it is a correct abstract of the same. We
have counted the Cash ahd examined the Bills on hand at. the Head Office—the Assets and-Liabilities at
the Branches other than London have been taken on the certificates of the Managers and Account-
ants of the respective Branches, and those of the London Branch as cabled by the London Manager.
Adelaide, 16th April, 1920.
WILLIAM NEILL. F.C.P.A. t
W. L. WARE. P.C.P.A. \ Auditors.
Amberola 30
is a splendid
entertainer
đ
The Edison Amberola brings beautiful music into your home—on it
can be reproduced the superb productions of famous orchestras and
bands, instrumental and vocal solos.
It offers a splendid means of entertaining the casual visitor, and
affords pleasant entertainment for the family, at all times.
The Amberola 30 is fitted with the famous Edison Diamond Stylus
Reproducer, and is a particularly handsome instrument in a golden
oak cabinet.
Call on the nearest dealer and hear it play, or write for details, post
free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 304-372 Kent Street, Sydney-


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &WHITTY
&& ,
& SYDNEY
o
P/IRIS
GARTERS
No mefal
can iouch you
ASK DISTINCTLY FOR
PARIS GARTERS
Value and Service Guaranteed.
Retailed Everywhere
Indents and Wholesale,
Walter Cathro Pty., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
Makers. A. Stein & Company. Chicago.
We Desire
to Duy
ď
PLATINUM, at £2O per ounce.
DIAMONDS, PEARLS and other
Fine Gems.
OLD GOLD and SILVER, for
Melting Purposes.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd., 2 8ydn ey B . l
Missing Friends.
PETER KEVANY, or anyone knowing
his whereabouts, please communicate
with his sister, Miss B. KEVANY, 85 South
14th-street, Roseville, New Jersey, U.S.A.
WB.J. —Please communicate with K.W.
Strictly confidential. All is well.
STEPHEN MOYLAN.
A NYONE knowing the whereabouts or
J_\ fate of above will greatly oblige by
communicating with his brother.
J. W. MOYLAN.
No. 5 McArthur Street, Ballarat (Vic.).
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T LET TINKER
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
Everybody who is anybody in Melbourne
turned up on Friday and Saturday to get a glimpse
of the Head-of-thc-River racing eights. The crowd
ran to 70,000 or thereabouts on Friday and was much
larger on Saturday. Wealth flaunted itself unre-
strainedly, but the vast majority of onlookers on
both days were far below the plutocrat line. The
reason for the widespread interest is not far to seek.
The sport is clean. Every crew is a trier. It was a
blow to the friends of Melbourne Grammar to see
Xavier win the heat, and Wesley supporters were
amazed when Scotch finished in front of their eight.
How Scotch supporters can roar! Geelong Grammar,
which was unquestionably the best crew, deserved
the win it scored in the final tussle on Saturday.
Scotch struggled gamely, and has nothing to be
ashamed of. Mainly through the exertions of Edgar
Byrne, of Hawthorn, Xavier won the old boys’ race,
and thus consoled the wearers of the red-and-black
for the present-day crew of that college securing
only third place in the final.
The general idea was that Geelong Grammar would
beat Geelong College, Melbourne Grammar pip
Xavier, and Wesley finish ahead of Scotch. In the
first heat the tip came off with an easy win by
two lengths for Geelong Grammar. The “light
blues” were really never asked to row. In the
second heat Melbourne Grammar beat Xavier at the
Btart-way; and with a forward canvas to spare they
appeared to have the black-and-reds fairly safe until
the stretch at Brander’s Ferry, where Xavier wore
them down.' In the last heat Wesley, as usual, beat
their opponents badly off the mark, and they led
right down to the “Temple of the Winds.” Here
Scotch got going, and on entering the booms they
were a canvas in front of the lighter crew. Wesley
stroke tried to lift his men, but the effort was
beyond them, Scotch increasing the gap to a three-
quarter length as the boat crossed the line. Gee-
long’s smin. 32sec. was lOsec. better than the
Xavier heat, and 6sec. faster than Scotch. As to
tonnage, Geelong weighed out at something like
list. 61b. as against Xavier’s list. lib. The Scotch-
men were a touch under “eleven.”
Geelong Grammar won the final next day a
forward canvas from Scotch, with Xavier two lengths
behind. Except when the Caledonians pushed a nose
in front passing under the Monier Bridge, Gram-
mar were in command all the way. They headed
Scotch on the first bend, where the inside course
gives a crew some slight advantage, but the real
struggle commenced at Brander’s Ferry, where
Scotch hit things up. The light blues responded,
and though Scotch decreased the gap as the crews
entered the booms they couldn’t raise the extra
bit of ginger that was requisite to win. The time
was smin. 34sec.
Billy McDevitt easily defeated Syd Kemp
over three miles on the Clarence River (N.S.W.)
on Saturday. Time 21min. 18jtsec. He has now
extinguished all the lesser lights, and is in line
to take on Australian champion Jim Paddon.
The second round of Sydney Union Rugby
emphasised ’Varsity’s superiority under these rules.
Doubtless one of the reasons for the defection of
certain players to the League is that there is not
room in the ’Varsity First Fifteen for all the first-
class student-players. Newtown were up against
a very fast lot of Uni. forwards, who kept the, ball
at toe and varied dribbling rushes with passes to
their well-combined backs. Result, 40-10. Far-
quhar is fast and tricky, but his tackling is rather
high. He and Wallace were the pick of the ’Var-
sity team. Newtown lacked combination, but showed
gleams of brightness. Scott, at half-back, gleamed
most. Easts, who had a 6-point win over Glebe-
Balmain, have the makings of a fine team.
Beith, ex-A.1.F., at full-back, and Walker
(half) are their stars. Mayne, forgetting
his 14 followers, was over-anxious for G.-B.
Mosman (9 —28) got a nasty slap in the face from
Wests. Fetherstone was prominent for the latter,
and Rossall did his bit in the converting line.
Hodgins did his best for Mosman, but his forwards
failed him. They were badly packed in the scrums
and slow to break away. Buckle played well in the
open. Norths showed flashes of brilliance against
Manly, but went down by 12 points. The spectacular
Cooney froze the other Northern backs. Mingay, on
the other hand, fed his three-quarters as though the
ball were red hot.
* * * *
Sydney Uni., although beaten by Norths
in their first competition match under League rules,
were not disgraced. The students’ failure was chiefly
due to the heaviness and dash of the Shoremen's
vanguard. Also, they played five forwards against
North Sydney’s sis huskies —a fatal error. They
need primarily a good coach, a few heavy forwards
and plenty of match-practice. But they are on the
light side for big football.
* * * *
Balmain beat Souths by 24 points to 14
in Sydney League second round; but they had to
gallop to do it. The premier team’B forwards were
much the heavier, and it says a deal for the clever-
ness of A. Watts, South’s hooker, that they obtained
possession from the scrum as often as they did.
The main contributing factors to Balmain’s success
were: (1) The gift of two charity tries; (2) their
weight in the forward division; and (3) the sound
work of Pony Hallowav. Frazer gave a classic exhi-
bition at full-back; his inclusion in the rep. team
against England should be a foregone conclusion.
The re-appearance of the old international H. Hallett
as full-back for Souths was popular, and he played
a great game. The losing team’s tack division was
the smoother throughout, Swinnerton also perform-
ing well; while V. Lawrence’s straight and deter-
mined running at central three-quarters was a
feature. Oxford landed four lovely goals for Souths
from difficult angles and some distance, but failed
lamentably on three easy ones. Snowy Latta was
once more Balmain’s star forward; the way he
combined with his backs recalled Billy Cann in his
prime. The Robinson brothers were patchy. Some
of Junker Robinson’s one-handed transfers were par-
ticularly wretched. The scores—24 (six tries, three
converted) by the Dockers against 14 (two tries,
one converted, and three penalty goals) to the credit
of Souths —do not give a true idea of the game. A
draw would have summed up the merits of the
teams. Balmain will need to liven up considerably
in the five-eighth and inside centre positions to beat
Western Suburbs.
* * * #
A few enthusiasts are trying to promote
Rugby football in Adelaide, where it is* unknown.
Spectators brought up on the Australian code have
derided the small playing-ground, and called the
scrimmages dull and the keen low-tackling brutal.
Soccer has a better following, mostly composed of
ex-Englishmen. Eight teams are listed for com-
petition, and a good ad. is expected from a match in
July against the crew of the Renown.
* # * »
That sport is booming in Melbourne was
shown by the packed football grounds on Saturday,
though about 100,000 others were watching the Head-
of-the-River race. Into the little Richmond enclosure,
built for about 20,000, somewhere near 25,000
enthusiasts squeezed themselves, until the fence gave
way. They saw a fast, clever game, won in the
last quarter by the better-trained locals —the first
time they have ever defeated Carlton on their own
ground. Scores, Richmond 97 points to Carlton’s
68. The winners were faster and lasted better, but
the old Blues’ high marking was a treat. In
skirmishing round for new talent Carlton has cap-
tured a Maryborough youth who, if he doesn’t get
swelled head, will be a champion forward—a bril-
liant mark and a sure kick. Another huge crowd
packed East Melbourne ground, where the ’Dons went
down, after a tremendous struggle, before the resus-
citated Melbourne team —65 points to 80. Like
"ROD” MCGREGOR,
Carlton's famous centre
man, who has teen play-
ing with Carlton for the
last 16 years.
Richmond and Carlton, Mel-
bourne has acquired some large,
meaty men, and as they are
trained to the hour the team
that bumps against them with
anything less weighty goes
wallop. Melbourne’s victory
so annoyed some Essendon
barrackers that they “got to”
the umpire; if that sort of
caper is fashionable thus early
in the season, somebody is
going to reap trouble before
September. South, on its own
ground, was beaten by ’Roy,
chiefly through poor kicking—
-49 to ’Roy’s 79. 'Wood re-
turned from Geelong with a
skin-of-its-teeth victory—s 4
points to the Seasiders’ 50.
In fact, the timekeepers were
putting up their watches when
a lucky goal saved ’Wood’s
bacon. After viewing the
various teams sideways and
endways, this writer is pre-
pared to het the tail of his
shirt (he daren’t bet the whole
garment at the present price
of that necessary commodity)
that Richmond will win the
pennant this season.
“15-30”: France’s team for the next Davis
Cup—Gobert, Decugis, Laurentz and Brugnon—ought
to take some beating. Gobert, who has recently
been in great form in England, is a 6ft. 3in. giant
who walloped our Patterson and O’Hara Wood in
the Inter-Allied Army Championships last year.
Through his great efforts against the English team,
France nearly won the right to attack Australia for
the last Davis Cup. Among his countrymen Decugis
has the longest international record. Twenty years
back he shot to the front and is still there. Laurentz
appeared a decade ago as a boy phenomenon. He is
now 26, and at his best has defeated Gobert and
Decugis without much difficulty. The new man,
Brugnon, is comparatively unknown, but his quality
is suggested by his recent defeat of the English
crack Mavrogordato, who is among the best half-
dozen singles players in the world.
» * * •
The N. S. Wales team won the men’s ten-
nis event by 29 points to 28 at Sydney on Satur-
day. Brookes had a disabling cold and Heath was
out of condition. This pair met A. L. North and
N. Peach, both in great nick and at the top of
their form. The Sydney men attacked from the
jump, and, fairly sweeping the visiting champions
off their feet, won 6-2, 6-3. North’s performance
was remarkable. He won every rubber he engaged
in, and was the only undefeated player on either
side. Poekley and Neil were beaten by the Vic-
torians England and Hawthorn; but N. S. Wales
veterans Sharp and Clark downed Wertheim and
Taylor after a long and thrilling struggle. The
Vic. ladies were too good for those of N. S. Wales,
Miss Schlesinger being particularly brilliant.
* ♦ * *
After being suspended for four years,
the English Waterloo Cup was run for again last
week, and won by Fighting Force, owned by Miss
JACK
WORRALL,
who will coach
Essendon again
this season.
Ruth Fawcett. She
bred this second-season
dog herself. The runner-
up was Honeyman,
Irish-bred. Australian-
bred Boy Ben had a
win in the first round.
He went into the
Waterloo Purse and
was done with in the
fourth round. These
meetings originated in
an eight-dog stake set
on foot by the pro-
prietor of the Waterloo
Hotel, Liverpool, in
1836. To-day it is a
64-dog stake, the nom-
inations for which are
dealt with by the
Altcar Coursing Club.
The entrance money is
£25 a hound.
A. E. Beamish in an article in London
Field refers to a Davis Cup incident:
“The match was remarkable for the extraordinary
footfaulting of Kingscote by a linesman, Dr.
McElhone, who has, I believe, a mania for detecting
foot-faults by servers, and conscientiously endeavors
to stop these infringements by acting as a base lines-
man whenever possible. I had a talk with him and
he told me how sorry he was, and that he had not
slept all night in consequence. I assured him we
bore him no illwill, but blamed the committee of
management if we thought about it at all.”
Kingscote frequently stated while in Australia that he
had never been penalised in this way before. English
papers, however, point out that footfaulting has been
extremely prevalent among their players, and in the
opinion of many good judges of the game Kingscote
was one of the most frequent transgressors. In fact,
in the Morning Post a contributor states that “A
well-known player who has taken a prominent part in
the coaching and captaincy of British teams told the
writer, ‘I always warned Kingscote it would happen
some day.’ ” Beamish admits that the episode made
no difference to the result of the match, which
Brookes and Patterson thoroughly deserved to win.
# * * *
The Jap Shimidru is, it is said, to partner
Mrs. Lambert Chambers in the mixed tennis cham-
pionship at Wimbledon this summer. As the lady
could have her pick of the men available, this must
mean that he is in the very highest class. In the
doubles he will be partnered by his countryman
Kumagae, who ranked third in merit in all the
U.S.A. last summer and is, according to Gerald
Patterson, likely soon to be the best man there.
Japan must have quite a decent chance for the Davis
Cup.
The English Jockey Club got some plain
speaking at the annual Gimcrack dinner, which is
always made an occasion for the discussion of pos-
sible reform. Abe Bailey, who brings in S’African
ideas, caused something like an earthquake by
plumping for the introduction of the totalisator —to
work side by side with the bookmakers; and that
part of it is folly.
* * » *
The Canterbury (M.L.) Jockey Club is
staging a contest of giants for the Prince next
Saturday. For the Marlborough Stakes (lm. w.f.a.)
there are 10 nominations, including the brilliant
Amythas, unexpectedly beaten by Silver Link in
the Manawatu Stakes; Arrowsmith, who recently
won the Thompson Handicap and Prince of Wales
Cup (lim.) at the Auckland Royal Meeting, and
who just failed to catch Amythas in the Awapuni
Gold Oup; Sasanof, game as an ant; and Karo, in
Mason’s stable, who is liable to upset anyone’s apple-
cart. The race looks hard to pick in five tries,
and with the aforementioned watching each other,
Right and Left or Golden Bubble might steal a
march on the field.
# * * *
At the S.A.J.C. Autumn Meeting the
Elder Stakes attracted a well-performed lot. The
ancient Wee Gun was worst served in the weights,
and King of the Sea and Dependence disputed the
finish, the former prevailing owing chiefly to Demp-
sey’s fine horsemanship. Two old rivals raced, but
in different events. Lord Setay was not sighted in
the Goodwood Handicap, won by Mareca; and
Crusader essayed to win the St. Leger from end
to end, but was downed by the visiting Hyades
with Lewis up.
* * * *
“FY7”; Hunting didn’t leave Sydney with
the British regiments. As a matter of fact, hounds
ran regularly in the Parramatta district until about
10 years ago. They pursued the ferocious aniseed-
bag and were kenneled at George Terry’s place,
Box Hill. The death of the Hunt Club was due to
too much wire and too little money. Brisbane ai s °
supported a pack until early in the ’nineties, when
a couple of fatal accidents kflled the already waning
interest in the sport. Victoria and South Aus. j*ere
keen hunting States before the war, and they both
threaten to re-open the game this season.
* * » *
Two of Adelaide’s chief athletic bodies
are looking for new chairmen. Cleland, K.C., finds
himself too busy to continue with the Football
League, where he has held office since the death oi
Jim Anderson, K.C. And Mostyn Evan, chairman
of the Cricket Association, has asked the Lacrosse
men to find a new head ; he has had a big influence
on the game for the last 20 years.
* * * *
The England XI which will be here in
November is not exactly forecasted, yet one can get
some idea of it; —subject to modification of form in
the season just starting’—from the new issue of
Wisden, dealing with 1919. Hobbs was still the
best bat in England, Mead a mighty left-hander,
and Woolley the best all-rounder. Crawford, ‘ re-
turning to English cricket after an absence of nine
years, was a better batsman than ever before.
(But possibly cricket etiquette might prevent his
playing in a test against Australia now.) York-
shire found in Holmes and Sutcliffe a remarkable
pair of bats, who are ranked as fair su( cessors to
the famous old first-wicket partnership, Brown and
Tunnieliffe. Others who jumped to the front rank
are Ernest Tyldesley (brother of the better-known
man), who has been playing for Lancashire since
1909, but seems improved out of all knowledge by
his war service; also Hendren, a great bat, and
“about the best outfield in the Kingdom,” and Ducat
of Surrey. All these but Sutcliffe are well over 30 ;
and he is 25. The best youngster was D. J. Knight,
of Oxford, who had “nothing less than a triumph.”
Willie Farrell, “the actor-boxer,” clashed
with Tom O’Malley, whose fancy it is to be known
as Ironbark, at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night.
Both were below the middle-weight limit. Willie
began by practically offering Ironbark the freedom
of his countenance. He woke up after three or four
rounds; but not to such purpose as to discommode
the Sydneyite. O’Malley is no Mace—far from it —•
and his unconventional methods annoyed the Eng-
lishman. The latter brought all his histrionic
powers—and they are considerable—into play with
the objqct of demonstrating to the exiguous audience
present that Tom was illegally using his head. As
the scuffle dragged on Farrell developed the practice
of hurling his face upwards in an agonised fashion
every time O’Malley’s brow got within half a foot
of his chin. But the crowd was sceptical, not to
say scornful. Farrell gave one exhibition of what
looked like real gameitess towards the close of the
funereal ceremony, when O’Malley caught him on
the ropes and battered him practically at will,
ilowever, a couple of rounds later —at the end of
the 16th, to wit —he decided that the moment had
come to ring down the curtain; and his towel came
in. He was allegedly suffering from a swallowed
tooth. To judge by his gyrations his stomach might
have been burdened with the entire set.
* * * *
The touring Maoriland bowlers tackled a
chosen N. S. Wales army at Parramatta on Satur-
day in a six-rink game, and went down by the
narrow margin of 118-113. At the fifteenth end
M.L. were up 84-78 ; but in the final six ends they
buckled badly. Each side won three rinks.
# * * »
Mick Simmons’s “Anglers’ Guide for 1920”
contains even more useful and reliable information
than the previous 15 issues. No camping or
fishing liar with a regard for his reputation for
veracity can afford to be without it.
* * * *
Alexander Lillie, who died the other day
at Elsternwick (Vic.), had a sports record at bowls.
He was a foundation member of the Elsternwick
club, which was started 21 years ago, and before that
had served his apprenticeship as a member (and
sometime skipper) of the old original Melbourne Club,
which had its headquarters at then plutocratic
Windsor.
**# / *
Adelaide’s two leading schools hold their
athletic sports the week after the inter-collegiate
meeting, instead of having them first and picking
their team for it by the results. The main reason
for what seems an odd idea is the Cup, which at a
school’s own sports goes to the best all-round man.
The anxiety to pick up scoring points for this
leads the best men to start at all sorts of distances as
well as their favorite ones, and thus the form is
found unreliable as a guide for the bigger affair,
where they specialise. This year Gray won the
Prince Alfred’s Cup, and the St. Peter’s went to
Fotheringham—in the absence of the jumper Cocks,
disabled at the inter-collegiate.
George Anderson, M.A., the new Mod-
erator of the Presbyterian Church in S. Aus., is
reckoned the best all-round cricketer in the North.
In the recent Country Cricket week in Adelaide he
was the star performer with both bat and ball.
♦ * * *
“Billy B.”: The up-stream launch was
crowded when he came aboard carrying a parcel.
He stood in front of three women who had spread
themselves on the remnants of the space reserved
for smokers. “Please don’t move,” he said, as he
put the parcel on the deck; “but don’t kick that —
it’s dynamite.” When he started to shove the
goods under the seat he had it all to himself. An
hour later I saw him throw the parcel into a
rowing-boat. “ ’Struth,” I remonstrated, “look out
what you’re doing with the dynamite!” “Dynamite,
m’ foot,” said the casual stranger; “that’s burley.”
“Toby C.” : What was announced as the
axeman’s championship of North Queensland was
recently decided in a Cairns picture-theatre. The
argument was between Ernie Elliott, a hefty
Bananalander, and 6ft. of strength and enthusiasm
from Tasmania named Charles Salter. The dispute
was over a 15-inch standing block, which Elliott
hacked through in 49sec. Salter arrived at the end
of the journey a fraction of a second later. J. M.
Peck holds the world’s record for 15-inch girth
standing block (42 3-ssec.). Elliott collected a
£6O “house” less 10 per cent; also a side wager
of £5O.
A SPORTING PARABLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“Lithgow (N.S.W.) was last night treated to the
spectacle of the Church of England rector racing
through the streets, followed shortly after by about
18 lads, most of them winded, but some still capable
of muttering juvenile, maledictions. It later trans-
spired that the reverend gentleman was a ‘hare,’
''and was being hunted by the Boys’ Guild
‘hounds.’ ” — Sun.
When man is young he chases Siu
With joyous heart and bold:
No beaker is too deep for him,
No girl too plain or old.
Life is a wild, exciting game,
With naughtiness its leading aim.
With middle age comes failing zest:
Late nights begin to pall;
The ladies lose their old-time chairn,
No bar or front-row stall
Can now his eager presence win—
He finds himself rebuking Sin.
But hereupon a dreadful thing
Occurs to the reformed:
His bygone sins make him their prey.
Sins ugly and deformed,
Old sins and young—a grisly pack—
Leap yelping at his fleeing back.
•The Rector’s race, pursued by lads
Blaspheming down the wind,
A striking parable provides:
He who leaves Youth behind,
However far he runs and fast
Is always hunted —by his Past.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


Confidence Creates Courage
It is not so much the fear of physical
pain or injury, but the fear of being
made look cheap and foolish, that
causes many a man to swallow an
insult which he knows in himself
should be resented in a manly way.
Lack of Boxing knowledge makes him
a coward. Confidence in his own
ability would create courage.
I Teach Boxing by
Post.
I teach you every move in the game —not only
the orthodox “hits” and “stops,” but many un-
common punches, etc., that I have learned by
personal experience and long association with the
fistic champions. You learn to meet any and
every class of opponent with confidence, from a
“rusher” to a skilled boxer like you will become
yourself. My instructions are so clear and well-
defined that they are easily mastered by any average
person. My personal advice on all matters con-
nected with Boxing is always at your disposal.
Write your name and address across this advertise-
ment and send it to me, with three stamps to cover
postage, and I will send you a copy of my interest-
ing booklet, “Scientific Boxing in the Home,” which
tells all about my methods, fees, etc.
m
k
:
■MS?
“Snowy Baker K. 0.” Boxing
Gloves. In Two Grades, 16/6
and 22/6 per Set, Post Free.
602. and Boz., large, medium, and
small. Each set specially selected
and guaranteed.
REG. L. (‘Snowy’) BAKER
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,
297 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street (Cor. Crown Street ), SYDNEY.
for clean
Plugs
and
Cylinders.
đ
d
C.C. Wakefields Co. Ltd.
5 Moore Street, SYDNEY,
and LONDON.
s
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Over the World*
■ ssKsai
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOB
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 0.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 Q.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
tot
FIFTY YEARS
AGO Doctors cured
Coughs, Colds and all
Throat and Bronchial
Troubles with the Tried-
and-Trusted Remedy,
GREATHEAD’S
MIXTURE.
TO-DAY Doctors still recom-
mend it, and wise people ensure
sound health by keeping it
handy. At the very first
symptoms of Chill or Cold get
a bottle of
fitunuiislxnM
iTOSEZS
Crwtfistd Remtfly
m
«s
New Shipments Just Arrived .
WEINBERG'S and PALL MALL
CIGARETTES.
WEINBERG’S:
ON SALE BY
-A. A. MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney,
TOBACCONIST, AND ALL BRANCHES.
/
4*
A Motor Bicycle within
Everyone’s Reach.
jaiußNjLibtfV
iIS
imm
’M&m
:~*'
‘ '-■ i. JA&S
FOR BUSINESS OR PLEASURE.
Can be attached to any Lady’s or Gentleman’s Bicycle.
100 MILES PER GALLON.
NO GREASE.
NO VIBRATION.
4 to 25 MILES PER HOUR.
Your Old Bicycle Converted to a Motor Bicycle for £37/10/-
No More Wearying Rides to Work or Station.
LIVE COUNTRY AGENTS WANTED.
EAGLE ®. CO. LTD.
Twyford House, 17 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.


A:
1
> •
m
\
r a
QW
C c/D
XpV" flirii'icflilS' '
''u'n'ttu'lxf 'p'a'i'i''
JT is the vogue now to wear the hair softly
waved and unadorned, so that its own
color and the sheen that comes from the
perfect care, may show to advantage. - But
how to obtain that perfect wave and keep it
permanently ? Farmer’s Hairdressing Salon,
on the Fourth Floor, can satisfy your desire
by means of a special, permanent hair-waving
process which produces exquisite waves that
remain the same even after shampooing.
The cost is neglible compared with the added
beauty your tresses attain, and this new
process does not hamper growth or
destroy the natural sheen of the hair.
"Jclryeh one. (PiJ-ip £7cYe-n ZfTiouSanil.
d
Enchanted They Gaze
Upon Her,
and they know that the secret of this
scintillating charm is to be found in
the Shave clothing that adorns her
so elegantly.
And this they know is achieved without the
inconvenience of fittings.
SHAVE
LADIES’ TAILORS,
DRESSMAKERS ,
CENTREWAY,
MELBOURNE.
Vi
Reviving Social Li.e is in-
creasing the demand for
White Glov 8, and the most
P. actical White Glovcsfor
women are Vanity
Fair Si k Gloves.
Smart in appear-
ance, perfect in fit
sold «ith a guar-
antee of satisfac-
tory wear or re-
placement frea of
charge.
Ask ycur draper
for Vanity Fair
Silk Gloves,
v f. 8
ď
MCLBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
Melbourne Club members, outside the
charmed circle of the committee and a few
others who are safe by reason of holding
official positions, are ruffled over the dread-
ful discovery that there will be room for
only half of them in the big dining-room on
the evening when the Princelet is to eat with
them. It is whispered that the members are
balloting to determine which half of them
shall meet Edward, and the others will lie
left in the outer darkness or somewhere. Of
course Lieut.-Governor Irvine, the knightly
Manifold, the Judges who are on the club
roll, Minister Clarke, and Donald Maekin-
nou (president) will be there, but what if
Blank and Special Blank are excluded?
Will they take it like sports? Perhaps!
The sheep and the goats are rushing the
visitors’ books of the G.-G., the Governor
and the Mayor; and every high official is
being waylaid in the street by frenzied women
who beg and implore a chance for their girls
at the balls or parties. Apropos, the
Mayoress had an interesting note the other
morning: “Mr. and Mrs. Blank would be
very pleased to accept an invitation for the
Lord Mayor’s Ball.”
Government House has trial illuminations
these dark nights. Owing to the invasion
of the Prince and his suite, evidently some
of the household is being skied, for domestic
preparations are going on in the uppermost
tower-room —a refuge approached by a long
winding stair.
Mayor Allen, of St. Kilda, will welcome
the Prince at the pier. He proudly resur-
rects the fact that, as councillor, he wel-
comed the young man’s dad on the same
spot 20 years ago.
At the Mayoral Ball during the Prince
revels the naval men are to have the chief
place of honor. Sailors will dance with
the d€bs., much to the delight of the dear
young things. The military men are quite
in the cold.
Colonel Isaacson’s small daughter Muriel
is one of the flappers who are hugging them-
selves with delight. She is in the d£bs.’ set
for the Prince’s Government House Ball.
Members of the Austral Salon welcomed-
home their President, the Madden dame, at
the Salon. After the opening speeches, in
oue of which the president talked interest-
ingly of her trip abroad and tactfully of her
return to Australia, Irma Caron sang “Home,
Sweet Home,” and Gertrude Johnston
warbled sweetly to the accompaniment of a
flute. But the laurels were handed to Irma
Caron and her fresh-voiced mother when
these two united in song and gave the Salon
dames some beautiful old duets rarely heard
these days.
The overworked Irvine dame has engaged,
as private secretary. Mamie Masson,
daughter of the professor. She is a s'ster
of the other Miss Masson who helped Mrs.
Gilruth through the earlier days of her X.T.
residence and made a book about it.
Paul Bibron’s Cabaret Ball was such a
success that it is to be repeated once a month
through the winter. Sassiety books its
cabaret-table in the St. Ivilda Town Hall,
and either jazzes or looks on as the mood
takes it. There is a French orchestra, and
Bibron himself conducted some of the dances
on Friday. Mayoress Mrs. Stein had a
party. Mrs. Falkiner wore yellow georgette
like sunlight, and had a big following. Mrs.
Russell Gabb’s corn-colored brocade was
pieced together with green feathers. Mrs.
(Dr.) Timms’s white shoulders gleamed
above a black gown. Mrs. McCullagh ha<J
stiff tulle frills at an angle on her short
white brocade dance dress. Mrs. Harold
Hunt wore the new style of tight skirt, and
was ‘ decorated above the waist-line with
black feathers. Mrs. Bibron’s black gown
was adorned with some wonderful old beaten
gold jewellery. The wallflower part of the
hall lost its usual staring, stiff lines in
herbage, and the big central chandelier was
dressed in a pink crinoline with white crys-
tal pantalettes. Colored searchlights showed
up some of the tulle-clad girls like the front
row of a theatre chorus. And altogether
there was a touch of French vivacity about
the revel.
Worths’ jazz palace held a big affair in aid
of the Foundling Hospital last week —a
cabaret show, at which sassiety paid heavily
for tea tables around the fringe of the ball-
room. The floor was a lure and the orchestra
very vivacious. Mayoress Stein had a table
and various dances. Mrs. Russell Gabb had
a party and wore a New York jazz-cafe
dress —she brought it along with the newest
steps. Mrs. Tosh, just arrived from Cal-
cutta (she is an Australian girl who_ mar-
ried a planter), let her half-dozen children
loose on the floor. In the smartest Calcutta
jazz palace there is a matinee every week
for children only’. Captain Lilly and his
sister; Mrs. (Major) Harrison, in fluffy
white and furs; Mrs. Buesst; Mrs. Steward :
the Osbornes —all had parties. Girls sold
sweets and flowers and returned-soldier
volunteers did the usher work. Unattached
babies are finding, it a hard winter, with
the weather -cold and everybody so busy get-
ting clothes to show the Prince.
Canon Hughes has rejected the mitre
offered by Rockhampton, feeling very com-
fortable where he is at St. Peter’s, Eastern
Hill. He is more than an incumbent, more
even than a canon : he is Melbourne’s chief
apostle of High Church principles and prac-
tice, and a strong one. His brothers are
the Brigadier-General, who helps to run the
Closer Settlement Board, and Kent, who
when not practising medicine is attending
the City Council or denouncing Rome. The
Canon is easily the best-liked of the three.
On the Hospital Supplies Board and on
Wages Boards he has rendered sendee to the
State; and as for the Church, he gives more
than he gets, for he has an income of his
own.
Owing to heart-strain W. M. McPherson,
the State Treasurer, is taking a spell for a
couple of weeks. But it is strenuously de-
nied that he contemplates getting out.
Barrister Joan Lazarus has brought down
sister Vida from Ballarat to play the part
of managing clerk. Vida is a big gun in
the Ballarat Dramatic Club.
Archbishop Mannix, who will leave for
Sydney en route to Rome, via America, on
Saturday, will be farewelled by a vast crowd
at the Exhibition to-night (May 13). He will
have left Australia before Edward, P.,
arrives, and intense loyalists will have one
target less to shoot at. Most of the mitred
Australian brethren of the Arch, will reach
Rome before him, and if he finds a red hat
awaiting him it may be taken for granted
that they have helped to weave it.
The Mayoral Dinner of Monday, May 10,
was not followed by the usual tea-and-cake
for the women. This time Mayoress Stein
commanded a jazz party.
Frank Tate, our Education Director, is
as pleased as a kid with a new toy. Frank
jun. has captured his medical degree at the
Uni. after a brilliant course, and the post of
assistant-resident awaits him at the Bendigo
Hospital.
Colonel Dowse said adieu to his Mel-
bourne friends last week prior to taking up
the post of Assistant Adjutant-General in
Sydney. He served with the Divisional
Train, and annexed a D.S.O.
Mrs. Alfred Deakin, here pictured by
Sarony, will be remembered for her fine work
in connection with
the Anzac Canteen.
A great tribute to
her long and unself-
ish labor was paid
by Jim Page, M.H.K.,
in the House the
other night, and the
earnest “H ear,
hears” from all sides
suggested that me
bouquet was overdue.
Mi's. Deakin and her
generous accomplices
started the Canteen
in 1910, and every
balance-sheet pub-
lished over her name
guaranteed that every
penny spent bought
a full copper’s worth
of cheerfulness for the boys. Her days are
still crowded with charitable duties —all
valuable and typical of the temperament
which George Meredith once said belonged to
a “sweet, sweet woman.”
Captain “Dick” Dowden, who in pre-war
days was the baby of the administrative and
instructional staff, is returning on the
Naldera as adjutant. When Broadmeadows
Camp opened he was ushered in as an
instructor at the officers’- training school.
He brings home a young colleen.
Commander Round-Turner, who is taking
the place of the departed Glossop until the
new naval man arrives from England, has
gone to Sydney, but evidently intends to
settle in Melbourne. He has taken a long
lease of the Toorak home of lawyer Rogers
Thompson. The Thompsons have packed all
their children off to boarding-school, and are
living in a Darby-and-Joan cottage at Sand-
ringham.
After J. M. Chanter, Chairman of Com-
mittees in tin' House of Reps., had been
conspicuous by his rare absence for a few
days, members learned first that his wife
was desperately ill and ihen that she had
died. Mrs. Chanter, who came to Australia
as a child, had lived in the northern parts
of Victoria and later in the Riverina dur-
ing much of her long life; but with the estab-
lishment of her husband as a more or less
permanent member of the Commonwealth
Parliament, the family tent was pitched at
Malvern. Four sons and four daughters
survive, and two generations of Chanters
served in the Great War.
Blamire Young has sent a collection of
his water-colors to Sydney for exhibition
at Gayfield Shaw’s, in Penzance Chambers,
and they hold all the fairy colorings in the
world of dreams. There’s one of a braw
Scotch old-boy in a tartan plaid standing
against an indigo-blue background, the whole
effect as startling as the people who step
suddenly out of a mist or poise against an
orange sunset in a Chesterton novel. Young,
so to speak, found himself in the artistic
sense in Sydney. Years and years ago Mr.
Fletcher, father of Judith, the camera-
witch, wanted an
assistant in his
school at Katoomba.
Blamire Young,
then in England,
was an applicant for
the job, and he set
forth his qualifica-
tions in this way:
“I’m not a don at
mathematics, and I
don’t know much
Latin or Greek, but
I’m a first-rate foot-
baller and cricketer,
I can ride and shoot
and play tennis, and
(honor bright!) I’m sure you’d like me.”
So a young man in the little side-whis-
kers, wide trousers and tiny bowler hat of
his period (all shown in the Fletcher family
album) arrived in Katoomba, and there it
was that he met Phil May, who started
him on his artistic path. Young built him-
self a studio and hung it in the then-approved
ornate style with red plush hangings and gold
tassels —-very elegant,” the ladies who some-
times called there to drink a dish of tea
still tell you; and it was on the door of
this studio that Phil May wrote: “My stay
is short, but”- j -then followed a loug carica-
ture of Young stretching almost to the foot
of the door, and the final words, “Art is
Long.” Judith Fletcher took the picture
that goes with this.
The Arnold Westleys have sold their East
Melbourne home to politician Farthing. They
now divide their time between a humpy at
Mold inline and a Lister House flat in Col-
lius-street.
Adelaide sends the news:—
Tlio event of the week was the opening night of
the Itoss Smith lecture season. The Town Hall
was crowded, and there has been no elbow-room
since. The volatile Keith is lecturing with a dupli-
cate film round the country.
The Cuthbert Wells pair, who went to settle in
Ireland, found it boiling over, and have returned
to their native shores by the Orsova. He is one
of the heads in the Kastern Extension Co.
The Longbottom family, who went to England
before the war, have returned. In London during
the war they helped to cheer up Diggers at the
Anzac Buffet.
The Moulden Hackett lady continues to entertain
carefully-selected guests at her rooms at the Town
Hall. She gives them tea and good music, and com-
fortable chairs to enjoy both in.
Mrs. Mouchette and Mrs. Lion entertained Mrs,
Crivelli on her way through from Melbourne to
Westralia, one of the guests bringing her a French
flag to wave a greeting to the returning soldier she
is travelling to meet. Like his three brothers, he
lias been fighting in France.
Dances have started again with a rush, the host-
esses mostly being mothers of debutantes. The
W. A. Vercos gave a particularly cheery one to
celebrate the coming-out of daughter Nellie, follow-
ing with one for a flapper sister the next night.
The guests danced in a big marquee, and sat-out
and supped all over the house. Fires and shaded
lights wanned up every room. Mrs. Arthur Fenner, of
Kensington Park, gave fair-haired daughter Winsome
a successful start in her social life this week, and
the John Rounsevells had a similar success at the
St. Peter’s Town Hall in honor of daughter Myrtle.
Noel Geddes is wearing a ring which has
been presented to her by Johnny Begg, the
Adelaide oarsman. Before she became a
professional footlighter, under the Mclntosh
management, the Malvern girl, aided and
abetted by Dorothy Gove organised the
Girls Who Stayed at Home co., which raised
£ll,OOO for patriotic purposes.
N. S. Wales woolgrower Sloane, of Mul-
wala, has persuaded Natalie Crossman to
become Mrs. Slohne. Natalie, who is as
accomplished as she is good-looking, is a
daughter of the late City Magistrate Pan-
ton’s elder daughter, who was widowed soon
after her marriage with a young Englishman.
The Voice that Breathed is presently to
announce the amalgamation of Langi Willi
and Hartwood squattages. The former
belongs to the widow of the late George
Russell and the latter to George Blackwood.
Former-lieut. G. S. Cockerill, w r hose dad,
George Cockerill, is Schuler’s right-hand on
the Age, is-to wed a Heidelberg girl, Marie le
Grand. There are but few le Grands
in Victoria, and most of them are in the
grazing business. The late Michael, Marie s
father, used to be a well-know T n identity at
South Yarra, but in after years moved out
beyond Heidelberg.
Olive Trompf, a Ballarat girl with a
Voice, is about to marry Comforts I und
Commissioner T. S. Woodburn, C.B.E. He
belongs to a family long established in a
Western District squatting region.
The Weston-Fetts’ eldest boy, Archie, was
recently married to Vera Musgrove at iSar-
romine (N.S.W.). It took two parsons to
do the deed and a cohort of fashionables to
deal w r itli the refreshments at the local Town
Hall. Later on the supers jazzed the
youngest hours away, while the juvenile
leads escaped for a date in some dark
retreat. The ’groom, who is a returned
Anzac. will presently settle down at
Brundah, Narromine, a nice fat property
handed to him by dad.
Brescin, the violinist star that Jack Grif-
fiths is bringing here, has taken the first
part of the tour into his ow- T n hands. He
cables that he has made a start a month
ahead of schedule. He has a bride with
him, and will stage-manage his own honey-
month.
A well-known Melbourne musician, with
an air of lofty learning, has separated him-
self from the beard which gave him a thrill-
ing resemblance to the conventional pic-
ture of the Founder of Christianity. The
crisis came when a popular light in the
music business remarked to him acidly:
“You would make Pontius Pilate turn in
his grave.” Pondering over the cryptic sen-
tence, the abashed young man went home
and ended his razor’s furlough.
One or two of the cookies who have been
elected to the Federal Country party are
finding it hard to conform to the evening-
dress convention that still survives among
waiters and a few others. A man who has
been behind a plough all his life hasn’t much
use for a boiled shirt, starched stiff, and a
tail coat, and, as one of the farmer M’s.P.
remarked when caparisoned in this way for
the first time, “It’s the very devil to find
your pocket!” Accordingly the primary
producers who are now also legislators went
dressed for comfort when they attended at
Scott’s Hotel to dine their delegates who
are going to London to fix up a butter con-
tract. The middlemen present were resplen-
dent, but the farmers boasted that they had
the best of it for comfort when the spread
had disappeared. Curiously enough, the
deputy-leader of the party in the Reps, is
regarded as the Beau Brummcl of the House.
Still, you’d have to let imagination run very
loose to describe Edmund Jowett as a cocky.
The Fan Dango Mackays expect daughter
Elsie home for a flying visit of three w r eeks
or so. Elsie is a leading stage-lady now,
and her husband also has a bunch of English
stage engagements to rush back to.
The Wood Collection of old Red Indian
trophies in Pasadena, U.S.A., is famous.
Some of the collection, which was started,
it is alleged, by a chief of the Black
Eagle tribe, is at present in Melbourne, and
Miss McLean is showing the treasures in
her Collins-street studio at Tannock’s Cham-
bers. There are baskets, blankets and rugs
from the Pima, Navajo and Washoe tribes.
They delight the hearts of collectors, though
the values are rather out of the reach of
most of them—and they are not many. Aus-
tralia itself has native collections and some
ardent collectors, but little attention is given
to their hoards. Strangers from abroad
who wander into the Melbourne Museum
break into superlatives about the curios and
the method of cataloguing; but Melbourne
residents themselves mostly regard the quiet
corridors of the galleries as a good place for
flirtation or rest. Governor Carmichael,
in his time, did his best to awaken us to
a sense of our wealth in this direction.
He even gave a vice-regal party or
two among the fossils and glass cases.
But they were too conventional. A crush
of people in full evening undress looked
coldly on the acreage of glass tables and
wondered dully what they were supposed to
do and when the food would appear. A
vision still remains in the writer’s memory
of the chill place and hundre'ds of bare shoul-
ders ; also, the happy picnic of a tenor who
planted a bottle of champagne behind the
skeleton of a mammoth and gnawed a
chicken bone.
Fortune could scarcely have been more
unkind to George Steward. His life had
been one of struggle: he started his Austra-
lian career as a five-shilling-a-day hand on
the Tasmanian railways, and, though he rose
rapidly, never until his recent appointment
as Police Commissioner had he much oppor-
tunity to use that large organising capacity
which he was quietly confident of possessing.
He had been looking forward to the Prince’s
visit to prove himself. Then, on the eve
of it. a threatened collision as he drove his
Cadillac, in St. Kilda, a sudden swerve,
a blow-out —a crash and death within a few
minutes.


f
«(
IMPERIAL
WHISKY
AW'
coil
*
r\
A
Cj£=*i
FINES'^
<»
4S
MU*
*Mr
miN
&£ST
Snd
°hnT)
c o n s
8 Y
&
ewar
Hers; Pprth.n
DON
fisl
lON
MB


Charles
HeidsieckS
Vintage 1906
QMBBlfflf
N£ PLUS ULTRA
đ
d
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
“Join the National Roads Associa-
tion ( N.S.W. )”
FOR YOUR FORD.
Endorsement of the L. and R.
Auxiliary Oiler as a valuable fitment
to a Ford Car by one owner would
prove nothing.
Endorsement by one hundred owners
would prove little.
But when thousands of Ford owmers
throughout Australia consider this
patent saves their Connecting-rod
Bushes, and Reduces their Lubricating
Oil Bills, surely it is worth your
knowing more about it.
Why not write us to-day for fuller
particulars?
Your local garageman will also tell
you of its utility.
WHOLE SALE ONLY.
Bennett 8 Barkell Limited
“The Traders’ Service House,”
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
d
iJi
The Australasian Agency of
The Mears Ear-Phone Co. (Inc.)
is now being conducted by T. M. ROY, who
was recently appointed by his principals, after
careful consideration of his excellent qualifica-
tions to deal with
CASES OF DEAFNESS.
Mr. R6y always allows cheerfulness abound
with industry, and will at all times be most
happy to see or advise you about
THAT BAD EAR.
The Mears Ear-Phone is the only recognised
ALL-ROUND SUCCESSFUL hearing appliance
known, and is recommended by our Ear Special-
ists ; not only because it is the smallest and
most powerful instrument, but because its
scientific construction renders it Capable of
effecting WONDERFUL CURATIVE BENEFIT.
“Send for booklet and particulars of our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.”
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
387 George Street, Sydney.
60
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney’s female social rulers have been
wounded to the core by the curt announce-
ment that no women-folk were to be at the
landing of the Prince. The petulant ladies,
who mostly are the wives of husbands who
will meet the Prince on their official ticket
only, have not realised that unless an ’lgh-
ness is accompanied by a female Royalty
no female of the species may be intro’d to
him officially. One paper tried to make a
special article of what certain ladies felt
in the matter; and so much emotion was
spilled across the wires that Sydney’s
telephone service was like the harp of Tara
with its chords all torn asunder.
In honor of the Prince the G.-G. and Lady
Helen will give a ball, the most brilliant
yet, at the Town Hall. His Ex. and Lady
Davidson will give one at State Government
House on June 10, with a young people’s
dance on June 12. The A.J.C. is arranging a
special race meeting at Itandwiek. Queen’s
Club ball is on the 16th. A gala night at
Her Majesty’s on the 18th hns created much
dissension among local theatrical proprietors.
Another shivoo that is causing discord is the
entertainment of the Prince on board the
Australia in Melbourne. The invitation to
entertain him on the flagship in Sydney has
been declined, and of course —well, you know
what that means.
The Town Hall was all pale-blue-and-
white and shields and school badges when
the old boys of Church of England Grammar
were glad in the cause of the Memorial
Cricket Ground and the outfitting of the
Eric Sinclair boatshed, the latter given to
the school by the Russell Sinclairs in mem-
ory of their boy who had found it sweet
and glorious to die for his country. A tri-
pod of secretaries had the fire all brightly
set to keep the jazz pot a-boiling, and the
young old-boys and the old old-boys with
their partners encored every dance and drank
the pale-pink claret cup with the gusto of
newly-grown-ups. Headmaster I’urves and
Mrs. Purves smiled on everybody. Enid Lin-
coln clothed the secretaryship in pale blue
and black; Mrs. Davies brought her two
daughters with the Welsh names; (Mrs.
Russell Sinclair and Mrs. Cecil Hordern
were in black, Mrs. Cecil adding a gold top
to her black georgette skirts; Ailsa Cullen
wore pale blue; Cora lie Morgan Jones was
all grey taffeta; and hundreds of young
things were feather-trimmings and glad rib-
bons and beaux.
On a night last week eight young white-
clad things with names that recall the
kings of Ireland made their bow to society
under the chaperonage of the Catholic
Women’s Association. Mayoress Fitzgerald
and her lord smiled on the blushing ’teens,
two of whom, acting-Agent-General Cogh-
lan’s nieces, had the most glorious head's of
hair. Mrs. John Barlow wore a frock of
satin as blue as a frozen night-sky and
brought two daughters in black, she who
has just returned from war-working in Eng-
land and France wearing a bit of Paris in
panne velvet. Pretty Mrs. Coyle came in
apricot draperies.
Lady Davidson gave the glad eye to the
House Committee of Rose Hall Soldiers’
Home, at Government House, on Monday,
and also handed Matron Preston a brooch in
the form of a rose—the gift of the guests,
who included godmother Eaditli Walker,
Nancy Consett Stephen, Mrs. James Ashton
and Mrs. Sparks.
The smart wedding of last week was that
of John Stratton Ferrier, a young man who
had come all the way from Kuala Lumpur,
in the Federated Malay States, to marrv
Eileen Keys, of Denbie station, Singleton.
St. Philip’s housed the wedding, and Canon
Bellingham made the twain one; she looking
like a belle of olden time in silver brocade, and
given away by Uncle Deloitte, who took care
not to tread on the train of fairy-web lace
which is an heirloom on the Deloitte side of
Eileen’s family. In addition to the usual
posy the bride added a white feather fan to
the bridesmaids’ burdens, but it didn’t mat-
ter, for, in addition to trainbearer Margaret
Stephen, there were three attendants; Jane
Mort in rose pink brocade, vocalist Philippa
Alston and pretty Joan Tregarthen in pink
taffeta. On their heads these ’maids wore
purple tulle hats, and emerged from the
combination with honorable mention. The
bride's mother, in handsome black trappings,
made the party welcome at the Wentworth.
Here’s a tip for Lottie Louise Armstrong,
who expressed some astounding views on the
clothes questiou before the Federal Basic
Wage Commission. Lottie Louise is secre-
tary of the Women’s Service Club, and had
been asked to come forward and testi-
mony by the National Council of M omen,
which is accused of believing that all work-
ing women should wear uniforms because
somebody’s husband (or her neighbor’s hus-
band) suffers the temptations of St.
Anthony every time his typiste shows her
spinal column through her latest georgettes:
Everybody’s warming up her toes for the
Prince. Mrs. Sep Levy gave a hop for
young and never-grow-olds last week; and
Mrs. Earp ripped up her Beard-Watson car-
pet and let the girls make a night of it.
After five years’ absence Mrs. .T. R. Wood,
who was Essie Jenyns, is back in Sydney
and finding a foothold at Roanoke, Roslyn-
avenue. In the old pre-war days she was
the fairy godmother of the Kindergartens of
Newcastle; now she goes back to do her
bit towards re-opening those schools for babies
that war pressure closed. To children and
the returned soldier her heart flows out:
“We can never be thankful enough to them,”
says Mrs. Wood, who herself is the mother
of a very youthful six-feet-five-inches of
soldier.
Even Verbrugglien frowns not, but adds his
congratulations to the rest while W. J. Goad,
fiddler, who learned his art in Brussels, tries
not to look as though he doesn’t think it
very wonderful to have captured Marjory
Beeby, the world’s greatest contralto and
the only girl in Australia to cook morning
ham and eggs. Marjory’s dad is the man
who denies his Parliamentary colleagues
with a frequency that would have left St.
Peter dumfounded.
Picturesque Cecily Lang. youngest
daughter of the Langs of Newcastle, has
accepted a half-hoop of diamonds from Allan
Binnie, of Quirindi.
Maude Clarke married her D.C.M., Lieut.
John Keith Williams, of Clarence River, at
St. James’s last week. Ivory satin and cloth
of silver formed the bride’s frock. A feature
of the group were the two little train-bearers,
Glare Meigher and Nettie Austin, with their
Cupid-bow mouths and their frocks of pale
blue and pale pink. Edith Meyer brides-
maided in the yellow of early spring.
Here is Mrs. Fitz-
gerald, Sydney’s new
little Mayoress, who
frankly confesses
that she cares more
about her home and
her family circle than
for all the glittering
entertainments that
will accompany
the Royal visit.
She makes a
charming h o s t e s s,
nevertheless, having
that almost out-of-
fashion feeling that a
hostess should really
see that her guests
are enjoying the
party. This is the
first photograph the
lady has had taken since her new regime,
and the Melba Studios are responsible.
Dorothy Milligan, of Cremorne, has
plighted her troth to attend to the grilling,
the baking and the brewing necessary to
the life-happiness of Jack Carlisle, of Leura,
whose late address was Ist Divvy A.F.A.
His brother Bob married Marjorie Robey a
week or two ago.
Pretty Emma Forsayth, the daughter of
P. M. Forsayth, is engaged to the soldier
son of the Bretts, of Warwick (Q.). She
is one of the few girls in Sydney society
who can claim descent from royalty. Her
maternal grandmother was Queen Emma, of
the Pacific Islands.
Kathleen, daughter of Mrs. Reginald
White, of Darling Point, once of Merton, is
engaged to Norman Fenner, youngest son of
E. W. Fenner, who, when he left off being
manager for the C.S.R. in Fiji, settled at
Cooinoo, Turramurra. Mrs. Fenner is a well-
known figure on the Rose Bay golf links.
Bridegroom-elect served in Gallipoli and
Palestine, and then was sent back to com-
plete his medical course at Svdney Uni.
Dropped in at the Conservatorium Hall.
Haagen Holenbergli, of Holland. So quietly
did the pianist arrive that the musical world
had not heard of his coming; but he is pro-
mising another recital before pursuing his
world-tour. The programme was mainly
made up of works now seldom heard; though
perhaps the unassuming player’s most popu-
lar appeal was made in the better-known
Cyril Scott’s “In the Temple at Memphis”
and the Liszt number. Arthur Appleby filled
the pianist’s absences from the platform with
good song.
There’s a little body of workers whose
headquarters are a tiny room in the Equit-
able Buildings—they call themselves the
After Care Association, which means that,
when a mental patient without friends or
relations is declared cured by the medical
superintendent of a mental hospital, she is
placed in some good home amid cheerful
surroundings, her mind being thus diverted
from the tragedy from which she has been
rescued. Looking out at you here with, alas!
only the eyes of the spirit, for physical sight
has been denied her, is Miss A. D. Paterson,
founder of this good work in Sydney. From
her little flat in Woollahra this frail body
with the big heart gently influences lives
in all parts of Australia; for she proudly
tells of girls
mothered by the
After Care who are
now happy members
of all grades in our
social scheme. Her
care of the mentally
sick was not the
result of mature
thought or a quick
call of duty. As a
little girl she lived
with her grand-
mother, Mrs. Bar-
ton, of Rockend,
Gladesville; and this
grandmother who,
although she never
sat on committees,
had a finger in every
altruistic pie of the
(lay, used to take the small girl, her arms
filled with the sweetest-smelling and finest
flowers in the old home-garden, to visit the
womeii-patients in the neighboring hospital.
Growing older Miss Paterson used to visit
the recovering patients once or twice a week,
gathering them about her to read, or talk,
or give impromptu concerts as the mood
took them. Then, hearing of the work of
the After Care in London, she spoke to Dr.
Sinclair. At first they planned something
in the nature of a self-supporting farm-
home, but then it was decided that it would
be better to keep the convalescents separate,
so the After Care busies itself looking out
comfortable homes in the country for its
charges, preparatory to finding them suit-
able employment. Any kind-hearted people
willing to board these patients for a month
or two can send their names and addresses
to the After Care Room, Equitable Build-
ings. Miss Paterson is a clever musician,
and has put some of cousin “Banjo’s” verse
to music: but her voice takes on a wonder-
ful note as she speaks of the poet’s younger
brother, killed in New Guinea—“he never
tired of reading aloud to me.”
The Mosman Musical Society is thumbing
over scores to find something as taking as
its last bright effort. “Girofle Girofla” was
an enormous success, with principals like
Dorrie Ward, and a chorus made up of
picked voiced, among whom pirate M. Tier-
ney, in spite of his recent throat-operation,
did excellent work.
The Boy Scouts bared their knees to the
blast on Saturday to do honor to Miss
Charles-Fairfax, who has returned from
London and several busy years among the
soldiers. There was an inspection of the
embryo Baden Powells timed for 2.30. but
Governor Davidson and the Scout Commis-
sioners got seriously to work about 3
o’clock, and the youngsters showed what
they could do in handling trek-carts, build-
ing bridges, lassoing and signalling, the
grand finale coming when Sir Walter de-
corated troop-leader Field with “the order
of the Silver Wolf.”
In Sydney and being partied to distrac-
tion, Arlie Capper, who won the Lone Hand
beauty contest 10 years ago. With her
pale gold hair, her striking figure and her
milk-white skin, she has been adorning the
Carlton.
Twenty thousand pounds is the cash value
of Edina, the home handed over by the
Vickery family to be a Methodist ' War
Memorial Hospital. At the informal open-
ing their Exes., this being the day of a
Labor Government, walked freely among
the guests; and Dr. and the new Mrs.
Fitchett, who were over from Melbourne,
did not bite them. Also present, several
Vickerys, trying to look as though the gift
were a mere bagatelle.
Barry Blomfield, who was hit by a tram
in Castlereagh-street 10 days ago, is slowly
convalescing in the Sydney Hospital, where
he was taken after the accident. The family
has had bad luck. His younger brother
Frank, who was a crack race-rider in the
days of Colin Stephen and W. E. Manning,
smashed his leg in a horse-accident, and has
been lame ever since.
The I land wick Operatic and Musical
Society is wearing a feather in its cap be-
cause it is the amateur co. chosen to play
“H.M.S. Pinafore” on the Renown. Recently
the Society produced it at Coogee with much
success under John C. Leete’s management.
Roy Agnew, whose recital, planned for
next 'month, has had to be postponed owing
to the Prince’s visit, has become quite a
protdgS of T. 11. Kelly’s; and last week
he and Mrs. de Beaupuis invited some of
the elect to hear Roy play his fantasies,
which are not entirely, as his critics declare,
“compositions in discords.” Commodore
Dumaresq, a music enthusiast, came, and
Captain and Mrs. Cumberlege; Mrs. Sep
Levy and Mrs. Frank Otter gave a clap to
aspiring genius; and Maorilander Luttrell.
Hard work and patience and determination,
added to a genius of which Australia is
one day going to be very proud, have brought
Roy so far. But he is full of ambition to
hump his swag across the old-world tracks.
Student Gladys Cole is making a habit
of Town Hall concerts, and getting her
audience each time. At last week’s out-
pouring she captured, besides several
nurseries and an orchid house or two. a
flotilla of floral dreadnoughts.
Benno Moiseiwitsch has arrived from
America. His wife, Daisy Kennedy, is re-
cuperating at Manly. Presently they are
to give a series of concerts under the Tait
direction.
That artist of wide landscapes. Arthur
Streeton, has on show a number of quietly-
strong and tenderly-beautiful canvases at
the Education Gallery. Two most remark-
able are the interiors, “Pryde’s House” and
“Streeton’s Dining-room,” while “Victory
Lilac” is a thing of tender charm. There is
a Poppied Trench, too. that makes one
think of Gelert and Rupert Brooke; and
a charming fan, all Cupids and true-lovers’
knots, with its motto :
In delay there lies no plenty ;
Then come kiss me, sweet and twenty.
The election of Frank Derwent Wood, the
sculptor husband of Florence Schmidt, the
Queensland soprano, to full membership
of the Royal Academy will be a great dis-
appointment to the following of Bertram
Mackennal. who had hoped that the Mel-
bourne man would be first of the two to
become R.A. The Chelsea art world always
favored Derwent Wood, whereas St. John's
Wood was pretty solidly at the back of
Mackennal, and it was a great day when
the Australian reached the coveted A.R.A.
ahead of Florence Schmidt’s husband. For
the higher stakes the positions are now
reversed.
Katharine Prichard, the Melbourne novel-
ist, who has embraced the political creed of
her V.C. husband, Captain Throssell, of
Westralia, has been looking towards the
East, where her literary friends propose to
make her the centre of a social rally.
Yvonne Deschamps, who took her clever
piano-fingers to Rome some months ago,
drops a set of postcards from the city of
marble halls and the small coal supply. The
little Queenslander and her mother have
often wondered during the uast winter if
they were not turning into statuary them-
selves. Yvonne has been to the Vatican, and
has been duly impressed by the Swiss Guard
in their Michael Angelo model uniforms. She
is studying the piano under Francesco
Bjardi, from St. Cecilia’s Conservatorium.
and is being taught to warble by Pio di
Pietro, of the same Conservatorium. In
spare moments she is taking lessons in the
fiddle and in Italian.
The Frank Otters have taken a flat at
Kelburn Hall, Elizabeth Bay. They are to
be in Sydney for the rest of the winter.
Still in Sydney, Mrs. Pelloe, whose wrist
has the strength to keep the most flighty
horse in check and whose hand has the cun-
ning to paint the delicate shapes and color-
ing of gorgeous Westralian wild flowers. She
is the lady -who once rode all the way from
Mildura to Sydney to take part in the rid-
ing contest at the Show. Another of her
holidays on horseback took her into the Far
West. She has made each of these long
rides into a human document: one is “A
Holiday on Horseback” and the other “With
Matilda.” A quarter of a mile from the
Perth Post Office, Mrs. Pelloe tells you, with
her blue eyes alight with enthusiasm, on
a spring afternoon you can find yourself
amid a fairy bower. To bring home the
charm of their own blooms by the track
and on stretching plain the gentle Victorian
has made studies and sketches which she
intends to have published, but she insists
that her hook of wild-flower lore shall be
sold at a price that will bring it within
reach of every school-child.
Three camisoles in 12 long months,
And not a word of near-silk hose —
Oh, such a one is Nature’s dunce
Nor knows the two plus two of clothes!
Ribbons and buckles go with youth,
And dancing eyes need piquant brims;
For sixteen bob a hat is (strewth!)
A painful thing of crown and rims.
A suit cut clingingly to show
Soft roundedness and dimpled curve
May cause young- Croesus to bestow
Th.e glance and cash such charms deserve.
Savings and bank-accounts are built
By buying misfits marked “much cheaper,”
But she is edging stocks with gilt
Who clothes herself to buy a keeper.


I “ *
n
\m>
ESTB
1853
Hardy Brothers Ltd
JEWELLERS.
Brooches
in Fancy Designs.
Double-circle Brooch
with Diamond Bow,
set in Platinum,
£l3 10 0.
The carefully-selected
Gems, distinctive de-
signs and perfection of
setting, combine to
make the Company's
Jewellery exclusive in
character.
Platinum and Gold Circle
Brooch, with Pearl and
Diamond Spray,
£33.
Diamond Swallow Brooch,
£l2O.
Five per cent,
■discount on cash
transactions.
Country orders
receive careful
and prompt
attention.
Diamond Pheasant with
Enamelled Head Brooch.
£4B.
Selections
sent on
approval.
m
Fine Diamond Circle
Brooch,
£ll5.
13 Hunter Street, Sydney,
116-118 Queen Street, 298 Collins Street,
Brisbane. Melbourne. London.
T* — 1
flouO
: .
vmm
TAKE PHOTOS
of the
PRINCE’S VISIT
with an
ANSCO.
Daylight Loading
for Roll Films.
Vest-Pocket Ansco No. 2, fitted with Anastigmat
Lens, price £B, is an admirable Camera for high-
grade work.
We illustrate here this Camera, which is fitted with a high-grade
Anastigmat Lens in Focussing Mount and Micrometer Focussing Device, a
feature possessed by very few vest-pocket cameras, which enables th’e user
to focus quickly and sharply on the object being photographed. A hinged
watch-cover protects the lens, and it is fitted with two Brilliant View-finders,
and Extra-speed Bionic Shutter giving l-10th, l-25th, l-50th, 1-lOOth,
l-200th, time, and bulb.
It is beautifully made of Aluminium, with Fine-grain Leather Covering
and lieavily-nickelled fittings. Takes photos 2 in. x 3 % in. A large
assortment of other Ansco models from £2/17/6 to £2l/5/-; also a full
range of
ENSIGNS (British-made), KODAKS & BROWNIES.
Call and let us show you how easy they are to use. If you live out of town
send for illustrated catalogue.
TREATMENT OF RESIDUES.
Our Metallurgical Laboratories are equipped with the latest appliances for the scientific
treatment of
JEWELLERS*, DENTISTS’ & OTHER METAL-WORKERS’
RESIDUES, SWEEPS & WASTE PRODUCTS.
Every order is executed under the personal supervision of a qualified chemist from the
laboratories of Messrs. Johnson and Sons, London, assayers to his Majesty’s Govt., the
Hank of England, Council of India, etc., and clients can depend upon getting the best
possible results from every parcel. A ’phone message or letter addressed to any of our
establishments will receive prompt attention.
u?
Photographic ana Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 George Street, Sydney.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane.
144 Queen Street, Auckland;
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: Booth and Trafalgar Streets, Annandale.
•
<2o ftc^
A
e»-«
»*r-£L
pg»?
ri:s
S M !
;, I
; lit
$ i»;
e*.,: i
fc. !
$•!;
r t
If-.
£v
/I
>■ :•;
SsC
yy
/ -?
/
Be a Better Cook!
If you are still cooking in the old fashioned
way give it up!—be a Better Cook from to-
day onwards. Cook better scones and better
cakes, tastier trifles and more delicious
blanc-manges. It's so simple !
Instead of using dairy milk, cook with
Nestle’s Milk ; you will be delightfully sur-
prised at the results and so will Hubby and
the children.
The “ Milky Way ” Book Teaches You Free !
Write to Nestle’s, 347 Kent Street, Sydney, for
Free Copy of Valuable Book containing over 100
recipes for Better Cooking with
NESTLE’S
Condensed
MILK
(Made in Australia)
condensed
MILK
Lr m ,iui
yLXi
'/ NEST brand
in austral**
anglo swiss condense.
ď


Learn to Draw,
1
JJ
There’s Money
in the
Pen.
The above |
is the title i
of our book-
•i. which
tells iibout __
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW..
It points out tlie
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawl Off,
204 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
JNHOt.KSLS'HORhOC KSfcfj’HORROCKSES HQRRQCKStb
THE. WORLDS
BEST VALUE
Australian Mutual
Established
1840.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £41,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
đ
ABBEY
SHOES
possess the distinctive style that appeals
to the cultured taste; combined with the
wearing- qualities sought by those who
demand long service.
We feature a highest-grade Patent Ox-
ford Bah, Dull Calf Legs.
PRICE 65/-
All Patent .. . 67/6
Tan 607-
in half sizes, narrow, medium and wide
fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
PARSONS
Marino and
Stationary
OIL ENGINES
SD=^l
Made in Sizes
from 7 h.p.
to 90 h.p.
KEROSENE
or
PETROL.
14-h.p. Marine Set.
ROBERT GRANT,
63 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
This Week’s Toilet Hints
A RARE COLLECTION OF BEAUTY HINTS FROM NEAR AND FAR.—
HOME RECIPES.
GETTING RID OF FEMININE
MOUSTACHES.
“Practical Suggestions.”
To women who are annoyed by disfiguring
downy hair growths a method of permanently
eradicating the same will come as a piece of
good news. For this purpose pure powdered
pheminol may be used. Almost any chemist
should be able to supply an ounce of this
drug. The recommended treatment is de-
signed not only to remove the disfiguring
growth instantly, leaving no trace, but also
to actually kill the hair roots, without
irritating the skin.
HOW TO HAVE THICK AND PRETTY
HAIR.
“Home Talents.”
Soaps and artificial shampoos ruin many
beautiful heads of hair. Few people know
that a teaspoonful of good stallax dissolved
in a cup of hot water has a natural affinity
for the hair and makes the most delightful
shampoo imaginable. It leaves the hair
brilliant, soft and wavy, cleanses the scalp
completely and greatly stimulates the hair
growth. The only drawback is that stallax
seems rather expensive. It comes to the
chemist only in sealed packages which
retail at four shillings. However as this is
sufficient for twenty-five or thirty shampoos,
it really works out very cheaply in the end.
BLACKHEADS, OILY PORES, ETC.
A unique new method instantly removes and
corrects them.
The new sparkling face-bath treatment
rids the skin of blackheads, oiliness and en-
larged pores almost instantly. It is per-
fectly harmless, pleasant and immediately
effective. All you have to do is to obtain
some tablets of stymol from your chemist,
drop one into a glass of hot water, and
after the resulting effervescence has sub-
sided dab the affected portions of the face
freely with the liquid. When you dry the
face you will find that the blackheads come
off on the towel, the large pores contract
and efface themselves, and the greasiness is
all gone, leaving the skin smooth, soft
and cool. This treatment should be
repeated a few times at intervals of several
days in order to make sure that the result
shall be permanent.
GREY HAIR UNNECESSARY.
A simple, old-fashioned home-made lotion that will
restore the color of youth.
One need not resort to the very question-
able expedient of hair dye in order not to
have grey hair. The grey hair can easily
be changed back to a natural color in a few
days’ time merely by the application of a
simple, old-fashioned and perfectly harmless
home-made lotion. Procure from your
chemist two ounces of tammalite concentrate
and mix it with three ounces of bay rum.
Apply this to the hair a few times with a
small sponge, and you will soon have the
pleasure of seeing your grey hair gradually
darkening to the desired shade. The lotion
is pleasant, not sticky or greasy, and does
not injure the hair in any way. [3
Government Notices.
ORDER NO. 4.
Commercial Activities Act 1919.
War Precautions (Sheepskins)
Regulations.
Sheepskins to be made Available for
Appraisement.
T WILLIAM MORRIS HUGHES, Prime Minister of
the Commonwealth of Australia, in pursuance
of the War Precautions (Sheepskins) Regulations
(Commercial Activities Act 1919) and upon the re-
commendation of the Central Wool Committee, do by
this notice:—
(а) require every person, firm and company now
holding or having under his or its control
any stock or stocks of dry sheepskins of the
value of £5O or over which has or have not
been appraised under the said Regulations to
make available on or before the 28th day
of April, 1920, such stock or btocks of dry
sheepskins for appraisement; and
(б) require every person firm and company at
any time after the date of this notice and
before the 30th day of June, 1920, holding
or having under his or its control any stock
or stocks of dry sheepskins of the value of
£5O or over which has or have not been
appraised under the said Regulations to
make available within 14 days from the
date on which such stock or stocks of dry
sheepskins is or are first held or had under
his or its control, such stock or stocks of
dry sheepskins for appraisement.
And I declare that this Order does not apply to
sheepskins purchased or held bona fide by a fell-
monger for fellmongering in Australia to a quantity
not exceeding normal supplies for his fellmongering
plant, provided a return of the quantity so held
is furnished to the Central Wool Committee on or
before the 2Sth day of April, 1920, or within such
fourteen days as aforesaid, as the case may be.
Dated the ninth day of April, 1920.
(Sgd.) W. M. HUGHES,
Prime Minister.
Commercial Activities Act 1919.
War Precautions (Wool) Regulations.
Wool to be made Available for
Appraisement.
T WILLIAM MORRIS HUGHES, Prime Minister of
the Commonwealth of Australia, in pursuance
of the War Precautions (Wool) Regulations (Com-
mercial Activities Act 1919) and upon the recom-
mendation of the Central Wool Committee, do by
this notice: —
(а) require every person, firm and company now
holding or having under his or its control
any stock or stocks of wool of the value of
£5O or over which has or have not been
appraised under the said Regulations to
make available on or before the 28th day
of April, 1920, such stock or stocks of
wool for appraisement; and
(б) require every person, firm and company at any
time after the date of this notice and before
the 30th day of June, 1920, holding or hav-
ing under his or its control any stock or
stocks of wool of the value of £5O or over
which has or have not been appraised under
the said Regulations to make available
within fourteen days from the date on which
such stock or stocks of wool is or are first
held or had under his or its control, such
stock or stocks of wool for appraisement.
Dated the ninth day of April, 1920.
(Sgd.) W. M. HUGHES.
Prime Minister. |
“A JOLLY BED-BOOK.’’
My Commonplace
Book,
By J. T. HACKETT.
CLOTH 17/6.
“This delightful volume.”
Con temporary Review.
“Mr. Hackett’s book fascinates me.”
— Nation.
“He talks out of a well-stored mind.”
—The Times.
“We can scarcely imagine a better bedside
book.”
—Daily Telegraph.
“Packed full of good things.”
—Ways and Means.
“Unusually wide in scope.”
• —New Statesman.
“Wide reading and fine taste.”
— Scotsman.
“The notes always informative.”
— Outlook.
“A book to be xecommended.”
Westminster Gazette.
“The book is one to have and to read.”
—Saturday Review.
“Shows a catholic taste.”
— Spectator.
“The notes well written and valuable.”
— Athenaeum.
“This wonderful anthology.”
—Christian World.
“It is delightful.”
— Guardian.
“A very admirable production.”
—Yorkshire Post.
“A ‘book for all.’ ”
-Globe.
“A rich collection.”
-—Northern Echo.
“This valuable compilation.”
Western Morning News.
“A library in a handful.”
—Sheffield Independent.
“A most interesting volume.”
—Evening News.
“Wonderful and delightful.”
—Literary Guide.
“A rich treasure-house.”
—lrish Times.
“A fascinating work.”
—Dublin Daily Express.
“I d : d not know how jolly a Commonplace
Book could be.”
•— Teachers’ World.
“It is a jolly bed-book.”
—Cambridge Review.
To be had from ALL BOOKSELLERS
Public Notice.
G
IiFT OF L AND-CLEARING INVEN-
TION TO FARMERS.
Send Two Stamps to “CLEARING"
Griffith, X.S.W.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Xo notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
tal:en of conimnnit ations insufficiently stamped.
Xamc and address must appear on the MSS. Xo
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Darien; We’ll pass it. Gaol doesn’t appeal
to us in the autumn.... J.J.C.: Three well-fed persons
sitting over their whisky and cigars discussing the
problem of whether a starving man would spend a
shilling on d-e-r-ink. Bah!... .C.R.M.: Just says
the old things... ,I.F.: The case seems serious:—
Like some frr.U dream elusive, silent, bright;
Its mystery ians my love to such swift flame
That madly through the air I thrill your name
Until it reaches e’en clouds’ topmost height.
We thought we heard a yell the other night....
J.D.C.: Must go back... .H.M.M.: It opens with
a sound like Fate tearing his whiskers on a clothes-
prop:—
Beneath the Southern Cross so clear
There lies a land so fair,
With flags unfurled and trumpets blare
All welcome Britain’s heir.
... .A.S.: “Delilah” isn’t as good as she should be
here and there. Reform her and try us again....
Fairplay: A hundred times The B. has said
that the local profiteer doesn’t amount to a
row of beans. The profiteer that matters is the
foreign profiteer, whose goods the importer handles,
and whose rapacity is beyond Australian law.
Wherefore this paper’s plea, first, for High Pro-
tection and then for the Australian to settle down
to hard work so that this country may be made
independent of the profiteer who matters... .G.E.K.:
We don’t expect a notice of an art-show to satisfy
anybody but the man who wrote it. A thousand
readers would want to put it in at least 500 different
ways. The most we can do with paper at Is.
per lb. is to pick out one man who has a trained
and seeing eye and sanity, and let him loose....
R.F.S.: May be a good translation; but not of
wide enough interest....B.W.: “Mesopotamia” misses.
.... Pip: All that ground was well worked three
years ago.... Murphy: Nothing in it... .Another of
the Brotherhood: No use... .S.O.B.: Joggety-jog, jog-
gety-jog, the same old commonplace trot... .C.R.G.:
Sorry, but there’s no meat on the bones... .Edna M.•
It needs no comment... .J.K.B.: Nothing there....
W.II.H.: Sorrowful tale in bad verse Waiter:
Wobble-and-bump of the dreariest sort.... W.F.:
Oh, do produce some ideas that haven’t been ploughed
and harrowed a million times... .lone F.: Sings plea-
santly enough; but so thin the wind whistles
through it....W.W.R.: Commonplace... .V.II.G.:
The statement is simple, but the verse is as much
like the real article as a turnip is like a custard
apple.... M.G. (Bendigo): Can’t agree with you that
it’s a “poem.” Seems to us more like a disease....
Curragong: Lame on all its feet D.L.S.: Shock-
ing. .. .C.M.A.: Pretty enough, but terribly over-
worked... .Tas. M.: It’s rather a small joke. Try
us with something that doesn’t need so much explain-
ing .... Lucius: Says practically nothing... .H.G.R.:
Couldn’t be much worse M.B. (Kogarah): “Ah,
me!” Also, by gosh! B.E. (South Aus.) : It leaves
us dejected.... Don T.: Very rugged. .. .M.S.F.: No
use....E.M.E.: Not bad, but it’s a very small sub-
ject .... Harold T.: Good of its sort, but that very
thing has been done over and over again. Why
not plain Susan instead of Pierrette?. .. .V.H.G.:
Dirge about “My Lady’s Face” won’t do. That sort
of thing ought to skip and giggle II.J.M.: Just
what little girls of 13 do write—that and better.
Bridgette: Poor Pierce B.: Wanted better
handling F.L.B.: No Cygnet: Hardly A.Q.:
Bad verse about nothing worth saying. ...Mort: Too
obscure H.V.C.: Lamentable L.S.D.T.: Got no
use for it, .. .L.Y. (Flemington) : A thin idea in
verse that staggers all over the place A.G.H.:
No improvement; but we admire that new word
“ordorning” you’ve invented.... Malcolm M.: Doesn’t
thrill... .R.S.Y.S.: “The Little Things” have too
little that is fresh about them Caulfield School-
boy: Promise in it T.E.L.R.: Very dull
Edward R.: Couldn’t they provoke better verse than
that ?....P.O’R.: Doesn't move us... .T.V.B.: The
verse won’t carry it.... Sagittarius: Empty and
dull. ...L.L. (or it might be D.L.): The “Laurels,”
“Gums” and other matters have feeling, but you
can’t get far till you put work into the verse....
A.O.M.: How could the quiet spirit of “Autumn”
more to a crash-bump dance of that sort ?.... Belle-
rive: Cheer up and keep the pen moving. “Things
Just As They Are” has all the old quality:—
.... Gee Bung: Afraid that’s not conclusive as to
the slang of Sydney a hundred years ago.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.R.T.: Large drawing full of faults Fred F.:
The work of a conscientious amateur... .H.M.H.:
Some character there, but we can’t use it T.A.B. :
No humor in Bill or his bloated friend C.G. :
Don’t draw suits like that for the Prince. He lias
enough to put up with as it is F.W.: The Ilun
has no life in him. Perhaps that is the ideal state
for a battlefield Hun; but we are now concerned
with the Hun in art E.W.G.: They fail to
explode... .A. S.K.: Why is the female lunatic sit-
ting under the hairpin tree? V.J.S.: You can’t
draw well, and the dialogue invented for a young
mother and an infant too young to talk is artificial.
... .A.J.McR.: Let us drop the subject—also the
drawing F.P.R.: It’s closing time for the two sad
men in the bar. .. . H.A.F.: Decent try.... Phil T.:
Too much distortion. Those inflated cheeks look
painful... .A.M.: Lots of bard labor about it.
Most gaols are the same H.M.M.: You have yet
to make the acquaintance of dear old Perspective.
... . K.: That branch has been chopped off before....
Shilling: Funny butcher deserves to be shot or
strangled. Draw a couple of hands for the flat dead-
beat and let him do the murder... .G.C.L.: Rough
stuff... .J.R.C.: The sort of witticism that makes
us curse, attached to the kind of drawing that makes
us drink. .. .B.P.: Very sorrowful effort... . W.D.S.:
You’re one of the scratching amateurs. Study or
perish.
To pen my little verses on
Things just as they are,
As I drifteth on life’s journey,
Is my sole and guiding star;
From the cup of fate I’ve tasted
The bitters and the sweets.
To prove myself a poet I’d
Chalk verses in the streets.
My art did never stir me
Like a yokel at a fair;
To trail down to my shoulders
I never trained my hair;
I’ve wandered and fve battled
With rough but honest men,
And I’d never wrong a rival
Like a coward with the pen;
For one and all we fadeth
From high and low estate,
Flicker, glow and waneth
Like embers in a grate.


Shipping^
ORIENT LINE.
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cubines-ae-
Lttxe. Staterooms with bedsteads an
private Rathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding _ sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIFNT S. N. CO., Ltd..
Tel.— City 4246. 2, 4. 6 Spring Street,
481 o! s y dDey -
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yoseinite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, MAY 19,
VENTURA.
10,()U0 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
“THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Byron Bay and the beautiful Tweed River.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
I lie N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
,o include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
hence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
lail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
mere connecting with one of tile Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
teamer, £6 13s. Gd. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 7s. Gd. For particulars apply—
HOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
lit. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A.; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Hankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 770,127 10 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since IS'.IS specially protected.
Dihectors—Geo. Edwd. Banning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love. Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
Branches—Loudon, Melbourne, Sydney and
til rough out Queens In iid.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Deserve Fund £160,000
Directors : HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman ;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C. ; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SY'DNEY’ (Coiner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 146 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £629,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,600,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
PDAMTQ Oll Australia, New Zea-
uKAN I O Ull/ir I O land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST. AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. MAKURA, June 3.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, June 24.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World—the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago. Niagara Falls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Franciscoi
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Cnnyon of Arizona, Y’ellowstone Park. Niagara Falls, etc.
Marama, from Wellington, June 8.
Connecting Steamer from Sydney, June 3.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
V
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors :
- £4,639,160
3,200,000
4,639,160
£12,478,320
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Ukarles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
F. B. S. Falkiner. Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Thread needle Street, E.C.
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
CommonwdtbJsiisank o( 3Mralia
HEAD OFFICE SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in th* Principal Cities and Town* of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Saving's Bank Agencies at 2782 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
War Service Homes, as Agent for the Commissioner
(A special Department in each Capital City)
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1920 Governor
Savings Facilities
offered by the
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales
HEAD OFFICE, 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
With 141 Branches and 501 Agencies.
DEPOSlTS —accepted from 1/- upwards.
WITHDRAWALS —payabIe on demand at Branch where account
is kept, or up to £lO at other Branches or Agencies.
INTEREST— 3I per cent, per annum on every complete £up to
£5OO.
Personal, joint- and trust accounts opened.
Shipping.
m
Osaka ShosenKaisha
(O.S.K. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service Manila,
Hong Kong, Japan and the Hast. Tran-
shipment cargo accepted for all Eastern
ports, Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhipping at Japan.
KOSUKU MARU, sailing- eiul May.
RUSH U MARU, sailing middle
June.
KUNAJIRI MARU, sailing middle
July.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
of Australia,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
40 RING STREET, SYDNEY.
•Phone: City 4166, Six Lines.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide.
INTERSTATE PASSENGER SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE.
FOR BRISBANE.
PORT ALMA. MACKAY, BOWEN JETTY, TOWNS-
VILLE JETTY and CAIRNS (transhipping at
Brisbane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and
Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
Huddart ParkcrLjM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
CollinsStteet, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
Monthly Sailings thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions Of the Japanese Government.
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Limited.
Eitzroy Estates Limited,
lilacklieath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOK:
Biitish India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
p. a, 6. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Iluddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney. Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


Amusement*.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
*|“ IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVENINGS AT 8. MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND
SATURDAY AT 2.30.
HUGH D. MCINTOSH’S LATEST LIVELY REVUE
FROM LONDON.
ODDMENTS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
THE VERY LATEST MUSICAL COMEDY SUCCESS,
HIS LITTLE WIDOWS.
Prices as usual.
HIC It )l A.IEST V • 8. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
THE PASSING SHOW OF 1920.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 15, AT THE MATINEE,
THE BIG PANTOMIME
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY,
WILL BEGIN ITS RUN.
Plans at Paling's.
Cll |T K It I O N T H HA T It K. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LID.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 15.
CARTER THE GREAT
AND HIS MAGICAL COMPANY.
A LINK WITH THE OTHER WORLD.
Plans at Paling's.
Theatre royal, sydn e y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present their unique
combination of
DIGGER-PIERROTS.
THE KEYNOTE OF THE SHOW —LAUGHTER.
Plans at Paling’s.
' J. & N. TAIT ATTRACTIONS.
PALACE THEATRE. SYDNEY.
NIGHTLY AT 7.46.
MatinOcs Wednesdays and Saturdays.
.1 and N. TAIT and BAILEY and GRANTS
Record-Breaking Pantomime,
MOTHER HUBBARD.
“The best yet staged at the Palace.”
—D. Telegraph.
Plans at Nicholson's.
THE PLAY II OCB E, 8Y D N KY.
Next to Fire Station, Castlereagh Street.
NIGHTLY AT 8. SEVENTH WEEK.
J. and N. TAIT'S ALL-DIGGERS CO.
in
MADEMOISELLE MIMI.
THE MOST NOVEL SHOW IN SYDNEY.
oW N HAL L, SYDN E Y.
SAT., MAY 15 ; TUBS., MAY 18 ; THURS., MAY 20 ;
SAT., MAY 22; TUES., MAY 25.
J. and N. TAIT present the Greatest Pianist of
to-day,
MOISEIWITSCH,
the Russian Poet of the Piano.
‘ONE OF THE GIANTS OF THE PIANO.”
N.Y. Evening Post.
Plans at Nicholson’s on Monday.
u
NI O N PICTURE TIIEAT It E S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS.
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Attractive
Musical Play,
KISSING TIME.
Plan at Allan’s.
Popular Prices.
M
ELBA THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PAIHE,
WORLD and SFLZNTOK.
Amusements.
T)|kA T It B It OV A 1.. MELBOL'KXE
■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LID.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present London’s Most
Successful Comedy,
•TILLY OF BLOOMSBURY".
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usuaL
51 15 I. It O SI It N E.
Kings theatre -
Lessees: BAILE\ & GRAM
EVERY EVENING AT S.
I & N TAIT present the great Belasco play,
TIGER ROSE.
The Greatest Drama of a decade.
Prices as usual.
Plan at Allan’s.
lvrl ,. sv , MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN and JOHN FULLER.
pKINCESS’S THEATRE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 15.
BAILEY and GRANT, the great Love and Laughter
Australian Sunshine Play,
ON OUR SELECTION.
All the Rudd family come to town to greet the
Prince of Wales.
Popular Prices. Plan at Pianola.
PLAYHOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. and N. TAIT.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, MAI 15,
J. and N. TAIT present the greatest of all Digger
Shows,
THE SMART SET DIGGERS,
in a musical barrage,
THE DIGGERS’ DREAM OF LONDON AND PARIS.
Prices: 5/-, 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. 1 lan at Allan b.
HOYT’S - THEATRES, MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
MADLAINE TRAVERSE in
LOST MONEY.
PEGGY lIYLAND in
WEB OF CHANCE.
Prices as usual. __
THE
GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING, 8.15 to 10.45.
Admission 1/-. Single Dances, (id.
Book of 14 Dance Tickets, 3/G.
Reserved Tables, 2/C extra.
|y|A.TESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
SESStIE lIAYAKAWA in
THE DRAGON PAINTER.
Matinfies daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
riUTANNIA THEATRE. .MELBOURNE
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
-|- HE
Ineludin;
ALLAN WILKIE
COMPANY,
Miss FREPISWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
Touring New Zealand in
LUCK OF THE NAVY, THE ROTTERS,
A TEMPORARY GENTLEMAN.
AUCKLAND, TO MAY 22.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
,ib and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIK CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we sta e
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
PRICE 3d. READY JUNE 1. PRICE 3d.
The SCHOOL SPORTSMAN
All the Sports of Every School.
STORIES. ARTICLES. PICTURES.
CLEVER, BRIGHT and CLEAN.
A FREE AEROPLANE FLIGHT EVERY WEEK.
Tell your Newsagent you want it.
DIAMONDS NEVER RAISED
We are proud to be able to publish the fact that we never raised the
price of any of our enormous stock of diamond jewellery during the war
period. We object to profiteering.
Then, too, five weeks before the war started our managing director
was in Antwerp, and he bought diamonds in tens of thousands at pre-war
Cash Prices, and so we could afford to sell at normal prices. We think
it wiser business to increase customers by giving special values than to
make one large profit and lose them. We, therefore are selling diamonds
at less prices than those of London.
Fine Diamonds, set in
Platinum, £2O.
FAIRFAX § ROBERTS LTD.,
PLAIN FIGURES—CASH ONLY.
The Oldest Jewe'lery House in Sydney,
23 8 25 Hunter Street, Sydney.
M.S. DEPENDABLE SPORTS GOODS.
Every Kind of Sport and Recreation Catered for.
/A
a
n
'Quality Goods at
Honest Prices.
EVERYTHING FOR
TENNIS.
M.S. Handicap
Haymarket
Haymarket Special • •
Ilaymarkct Selected . .
Haymarket Ex-Special
Ay re’s Handicap
Ayre’s A 1
(Postage on Racket:
RACKETS.
12/6 I A.vre’s S.N.D
30 /- Slazcnger’s Renshaw ..
40 /- i Slazenger’s Demon
j>o/“ ! Spalding’s Vantage ...
35/- I Spalding’s Tournament
37/6 l Hackett Alexander ...
N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
82/6
40/-
45/-
33/-
40/-
65/-
Specialists in
All Kinds of
RACKET REPAIRS
tennis balls.
Grey Regulation
Challenge Covered .. •
Dunlop Regulation Grey
Each.
-/» «
1/4 1
1/4 1
Doz.
Each. Doz.
Dunlop's Champion 2/9 33/-
Avre’s 1020 Champion 3/- 35/-
Slazenf?er’s 1919 Champion 2/3 24/-
(Postage on one doss.:
N.S.W., 1/-; Qther States. 1/8.)
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size,
35/-, 40/., 50/-, 00/-, 70/-
Tennis Court Markers
Tennis Tapes ■ J “ /
Racket Covers */0. 4/«
Tennis Ratchet w
Gut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets bottle -/»
Bach.
The “H” Racket Press 3/6
The “Grip” Racket Press 3/6. 4/6
Racket Handle Covers 1/-, 1/8, 1/6
Scoring Books 1/6
Racket Gut. 3(ift. coils,
2/-, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6 coil.
d
BOXING.
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness. Setoff
MEN’S GLOVES. iS/a
real leather, special value '""a"'"'
VB B. Fighting-, best tan napa, laced palms 6 01 8 o/... 10/O
rfBB Fighting, superior napa, laced palms, leather line,
‘ g § Jff/O
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
0 or 8
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined. 6 or
g Q Z ***** ' "
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING, »apa, curled hair laced
palms, 6 or 8
THF “LIGHTNING,” made in Australia, officially
adopted and exclusively used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by
Mr. Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker 40/-
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
YOUTHS’ GLOVES. Setoff
FIGHTING, napa leather, hair stuffed 10/-
Tan Leather, „ „ 11/o
‘ very superior, ~ ~ 12/0
„ Laced, ~ .. 15/6
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., yd.; other States, 1/2.)
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BAND,
Tin. wide (Post 4d) 9/6 each-
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) 6/0 eac ti.
unYING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light,
weight about 3ioz. (Post 6Jd.) 17/6 pan-.
Keep your razor
keen by usings
STROPOUNE, 9d.
TIN
(Post Free).
7
ft
PUNCHING BALLS.
n.nr?s"m;nX se^ 1 JS n s.‘^uX™,£r™
keep you in good condition. 100 .. . ; _ ilt
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation sin v soft; I « a^ er -
make, for fast work, 10/6. 12/6, 16/6
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, nne
leather, stayed seams, very fast —
18/6, 22/6, 20/-
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest
napa leather, welted and stayed, very fast and lively—
-30/-, 3 0/ m
“RE4CH” ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball,
specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and
perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha ki< ■
The finest made ,
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord jor
floor and rope for ceiling lo/ m
EXPERT double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather,
double-stitched, very light 21/, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings .. 20/-, 22/6, 2, i '-, 30/-
PORTABLE BALE, strong spiral spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete .... 75/-
Above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.: other States 1 -.)
Ball Gloves 3/9, 4/9 pr. Mitts,. . • ■ 2/9^
Punching Platforms 00/-, <o/-, -
Ball anti Socket Swivels 1/6, a/a "
Ball-bearing Swivels . . . 0/0 ”
SPORTING REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
fJiirm Rifles Revolvers, Tennis Rackets, Cricket Bats, Skates, Coif
Clubs’, Hockey and Lacrosse Sticks, Fishing Rods, Reels, etc., repaire
by expert, Workmen. Lowest Charges. .
Send for copies of “Can't B Beat ” Sportsman's Guide (Bl) and “Sure Catch” 1920
Angler's Guide (B 2). All sportsmen s hould possess them. I'ost free to any adare,*
1C
miSTRALm'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
and TOBACCONISTS
ď
City Sports Depot
S 9 King SC also at
Newcastle £ Brisbane j


This Little Girl Keeps Away Coughs
and Colds with
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
LITTLE PIICEIiE TUBE
(from a photo).
SAFEGUARD THE CHILDREN.
TAKE NOTICE OF THEIR COLDS.
It is only a little cold, you say; still it often
means a lot of suffering for the little folk and
worry for mother, so be wise and get the best that
can be had. Dr. Sheldon's New Discovery is a
wonderful remedy for all Coughs, preventing Influ-
enza, Pneumonia and Bronchitis. It is the safe-
guard of many a home. See that your children
keep bright, healthy and rosy with the help of
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery.
Dear Sirs, —At two years of age my little girl
Phoebe suffered with an acute attach of croup,
t tried the usual remedies, and evidently they
did not get at tiie root of the ailment, because
the attack left Phoebe a severe cough, which
sometimes became chokingly croupy at night.
A friend of mine, in whose house I was stay-
ing with Piioebe, was awakened one night by
one of these frightening coughing seizures/
and she brought in to me a bottle of your
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery, and we gave
the almost choking child a dose of the mix-
ture. The effect was so immediately beneficial
that I have kept Dr. Sheldon’s wonderful rem-
edy by me ever since. I feel that if I had used
it at the first, instead of trying oilier so-called
curative medicines, Phoebe would not have
suffered so with her cough. 1 send you her
photograph, whicli will show you how well she
keeps now.
Hoping that my little note of appreciation
of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery may help
other mothers to rely On your good, simple,
soumjly-healthful remedy.—l remain, yours
faithfully,
(Sgd.) OLIVE R. TUBB.
“Shirley,” Penkevil Street, Willoughby.
Or. Sheldon’s New Discovery—The Mother’s Helper.
Night or day, Mother is on the job. Site must keep her husband, herself and the children
well and happy. She has her little helpers, and the best of all is Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
for Coughs and Colds. When Mother appears with Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery in her hand,
coughs and colds disappear from the household. In the dead of night they work together,
arresting Baby’s Croupy Cough; in the morning they frighten away Sonny’s Cold in the
Head before he leaves for school. When Sis gets Measles, Mother and Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery keep her safe and comfy; and Dad's Asthma has left him altogether since Mother
introduced him to Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery. As to Mother herself—oh, she hasn’t time to
be ill, so Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery takes care of her on the very first sign of a cold. For
health and happiness in any household. Dr. Sheldon's New Discovery and Mother are the best
ever. NEW DISCOVERY, I/O and 8/_
D? Sheldon
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
f*
u-flp,' .< .
if (a im -mr t *.
V 4 ( Z
*WS
You’ll Still Smell the Dip
in the Wool!
Take any of those fleeces at Shearing Time, and if they’ve
been Dipped in “Vallo” you will actually smell the Dip
in the Wool. It will still be there—and with it that
lasting protection which ensures cleaner Fleeces, better
Sheep, bigger Clips. Dip Your Sheep in
Powder SHEEP DIP
and you solve your Dipping Problem for Twelve Months
hence. Your Sheep will be Vermin - free from that
moment onwards. They’ll be Vermin-proof, too, for
“Vallo” means Protection from Dipping to Dipping. Try
it. Its effectiveness will impress you.
All Stotes—everywhere
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - BRISBANE
38
THE SAFETY PEN NEVER LEAKS.
Self-Filling, 17/- Valveless, 12/6.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens—Obtainable Everywhere
Three Sonnets of Quiet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I.
DELICIOUS as new honey in the comb
The morning gathers all the scents
of hay
And woodbine and the blue above the grey
Of prim sweet lavender. The laughing foam
Breaks under crumbling cliffs where small
paths roam
In aimless windings all a summer day ;
For, crunching rusted shells from bay to bay,
My feet by any turn will take me home.
The old Martello tower upon the steep,
The poplars and the willows by the stieam,
The ivied church beyond potato fields
There are crusaders lying here asleep. -
I think in Palestine they dreamt this dream,
Weary of iron and their clanging shields.
n.
The gum-tree drops its strips of fragrant bark
With warm, soft lispings on the noiseless air,
And every sandstone crag has bloom to weai,
Ghost-like against the wonder of the dark.
Gloom upon gloom, the great cliffs falling
stark
Through purple mysteries like a giant stair
Lead down to the last silence. White and
fair
One star burns in a tree —a lonely spark.
Somewhere there is a sky, somewhere a sea ;
But here in utter quiet, curtained round
With living darkness, the strong shadows rest.
Did one dream thus on red Gallipoli t
Does he dream still? And is his sleep so
sound
That all this silence lies upon his breast /
111.
Sometimes there is a silence in my heart
That sharpens every sound of earth to pain,
And I can hear the air like beating rain;
And noises of loud woods where, torn apart,
Great boughs with echoing thunder round
me start
If I but move my chair. The distant train
Peals like the roar of battle on a plain,
And doom-wheels rumble from an empty cart.
Fear sits with me a moment and is gone.
Then, full of music, common sounds return
To sweet and common uses low and clear;
But w’onder holds me still and on and on
Over strange ways I dream to thoughts that
burn —
Shall God speak once when I have ears to
hear ?
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
A-hu Loses Face.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rp HE marriage of A-hu and Ta Shi had
been at once the scandal and the
delight of all the sampan-dwellers in
the waterways of Canton. Instead of being
the outcome of seemly and methodical
arrangement between parents and guardians,
it had been the result of love and stolen
lovers’ meetings. Seclusion being an impos-
sibility for the river women, A-hu and Ta
Shi had met, and, having met, had loved
and wedded with a high-handed and shameless
disregard not only of all established cus-
tom, but also of the rightful claims of Lun
Hi, to whom Ta Shi had been betrothed by
her parents.
The matter was rendered more piquant
by the helpless rage of the flouted suitor.
The loss of Ta Shi meant little to him;
there were other girls as comely upon the
river. “More melons in the patch than those
stolen from it,” Lun Hi said to himself. But
that was not the point. A-hu and Ta Sh'
had made a mockery of him, had exposed
him to the ridicule of his fellows. And
such loss of dignity is a very serious thing.
To the Men of Han death even is to be
preferred to such “loss of face.” Therefore
the demons of hate and anger took up
their abode in the heart of Lun Hi.
But though he uttered many threats
against the one who had stolen his promised
bride from him, Lun Hi. being little and
wizened and weak, feared to pit his small
strength against the might of his enemy.
That enemy laughed at his threats. “The
tongue of a giant and the heart of a giant,”
he jeered.
Lun Hi’s paroxysms of rage and A-hu’s
jeers were mightily enjoyed by the river
dwellers, and Lun Hi, realising at last that
his ineffectual displays of feeling only
added to his disgrace, learned to give no
outward evidence of the anger smouldering
within him. So his neighbors of the sam-
pans, not being close observers, believed at
last that he had forgotten.
That year was one of misfortune. Crops
failed, and ravenous river floods impover-
ished the district. To make things more
difficult, the Viceroy had neglected to reduce
the taxation. It had been, for twice a
thousand years, the Chinese custom to reduce
or remit altogether the imposts during such
times of stress; therefore, a deputation of
the townsmen of Canton set out to remon-
strate with Ah Yung, the Viceroy.
Preceded by the two gigantic lanterns of
oiled paper without which no Chinese pro-
cession is complete, and bearing rusty-
orange banners with demands inscribed upon
them in flaring ideographs, the deputation
went leisurely along the river streets.
Shouting coolies with their rackety chairs,
raucous-voiced pedlars, beggars with clack-
ing tongues and extended bowls, clamorous
merchants pursuing their departing cus-
tomers with shrilly-offered reductions filled
the streets. And as the procession went
new and uninvited members joined it. Soon
it was the centre of an excited crowd. Men
left their work-benches, coolies dropped their
loads, boatmen clambered from their sam-
pans. And ever the shrill babel of indig-
nation grew louder, the threatening rumble
of a tempest. With a Chinese crowd’s
peculiar susceptibility to brain-storms, the
jostling throng soon wrought itself to frenzy.
News of its coming sped on before, and
it found Ah Yung’s gate securely closed.
That was spark to powder. From time im-
memorial the right of audience had been
accorded. With vicious cursings and wild
clawings at each other and at the slippery
stone, men swarmed up and over the wall,
and came upon the armed guards who waited
in the courtyard. Knives were drawn, and
a hand-to-hand fight followed. With thud
and groan and yell men went down and
were trodden underfoot; but still the forces
seethed forward. The guard yielded and
fled, and then the rioters swept through the
broken doors of the residence.
But neither in house nor audience-hall was
Ah Yung to be found. The place was de-
serted. So the foiled crowd turned upon
the Viceroy’s possessions. Cabinets -were
smashed ; priceless pieces of porcelain shat-
tered ; silver and jade looted; embroideries
and brocades tattered and flung about the
courtyard.
Then, well satisfied, the mob ebbed away.
Ah Yung had not been found, but the
rioters knew’ that rumor of this rising
against him would travel to the Dragon
Throne, and the Royal mandate would go
forth. Thereafter Ah Yung w’ould be no
longer Viceroy of Canton. It was the im-
perial policy to supersede officials who
roused their people to concerted action
against them.
Many of the rioters, however, were left
crushed and bleeding on the cobbles of the
Viceroy’s courtyard.
Away on the river, after the ever-adven-
turous A-hu had dashed off to join the
deputation, Ta Shi paddled the sampan to
and fro, expecting every moment to hear
him hail her from the bund. But the day
wore on and he did not come. Late in the
afternoon she moored the boat at the near
end of the canal where the brown fleet of
sampans sheltered for the night. While the
rice-pot bubbled ou the brazier at the stern
she watched and waited. One by one the
rioters straggled back to their sampans, and
word went round of the day’s doings. In
great anxiety Ta Shi climbed from one
dipping prow to another asking news of
A-hu. No one remembered having seen him
after the deputation reached the Viceroy’s
gate, but the consensus of opinion was that
he was one of those who remained to
celebrate the achievement of the day in the
drinking booths.
When Ta Shi, satisfied for the moment,
returned to her cooking pots, Lun Hi, who
had listened to her questioning, clambered
stealthily to the embankment and padded
along with swift, bare feet. By devious
ways he came to the Viceroy’s courtyard,
deserted now by all but the human wreck-
age left in the wake of the day’s storm.
Under cover of the dusk he sought, peering
into this pallid face, lifting that to the
dim flicker of remaining daylight. He came
at last upon a body hunched in the seeming
silence of death.
But A-hu was not dead ; a knife wound
in the chest had sent him down, and the
feet of the crowd had trampled him into
unconsciousness.
With a mighty effort Lun Hi drew the
wounded man across his shoulders and stag-
gered off by deserted lanes and kennel-ways
out beyond the city walls, and so brought
his burden at last to a hut that stood a
little way back from the river. On the hut’s
filthy pallet of straw’ he put A-hu down and
lay panting w’ith exertion beside him.
The wounded man moaned and stirred,
and Lun Hi jumped to his feet. His
enemy’s body was naked to the waist, and
in the light from the slow’ly-rising moon
he could see the red slash of the knife
upon it. set amid countless abrasions and
cuts. With a malicious grin he unwound
the boat-rope from his waist and bound the
unconscious body to the platform of wood
that formed the bedstead of the hut. Then,
carefully securing the door behind him, he
hastened back to his sampan with mind
for once satisfied with the justice of fate.
And when he slept he dreamed of mon-
strous retributions given into his hands.
When the rose-lights of dawn tinged the .
sky A-hu woke and looked weakly about
him. He vms parched with thirst, but too
weak to make any effort to rise and search
for w’ater. He tried to call, but his voice
was no more than a husky whisper, and
presently he relapsed into stupor again.
Hours later he was aroused by the entry
of Lun Hi.
, “Water! Water!” he gasped, seeing the
pot-bellied blue jar beneath the other’s arm.
Lun Hi held the water to the eager lips
while A-hu drank feverishly. Then, with
rough and ready surgery, he washed and
closed the blood-crusted mouth of the knife-
thrust and bound it up. But he did not
touch the myriad gaping cuts upon the body
of his patient. Speaking no word, he pushed
the water-jar where the hand of A-hu could
reach it. and went out.
lie reached his sampan unobserved. The
whole attention of the river people was
absorbed by the mystery of A-hu’s disap-
pearance. His body had not been among
those found in Ah Yung’s courtyard. He
was not among those detained in the Yamen
prison, for Ta Shi. after long crouching
beside the snarling stone lion-dogs that
flanked the Y T amen gateway, had at last,
with tears and prayers and chink of silver,
prevailed upon a gaoler to allow her to
search the prison for her husband!
Where, then, was the missing man?
Question and conjecture were shrilled across
the river and excitement ran high. Beneath
their wonder men hid uneasiness.
“Who knows whether A-hu has not been
decoyed away by the dreaded fox-devil?”
they said. “And whose sampan does it lurk
in now?”
The services of Taoist priests were
secured by the fearful, and from many sam-
pans came the monotony of voices chanting
exorcisms.
Ta Shi wept in noisy grief. Lun Hi alone
was happy. There was a positive air of
pleasantness about him so different from his
usual surliness that it might well have
aroused the suspicion of his neighbors had
any of them inclination to note it.
The next day he went again to the hut
bearing food and drink, and again he minis-
tered to the wounded man. His hands were
(Continued on -.text page.)


EVERY
HOME
NEEDS
BE
ON
YOUR
GUARD
AGAINST
INFERIOR
SUBSTITUTES.
cSSbt&a
CP^
qW°*
*0
L#
j
s-
♦«
X
f>
SE
I
£2
e^sl^ s «
f}Swv£
§t§«
wtem
Vtfj
?
Tttf
SSS^e
ffi
C«
S#
n
spy
ffaAii
&S-W
ft*
r
s
S
a
U
«sSi
2^
v
a
«
s
cV £
'spo
.o&
Si
embß
0
«
V
I
t
8
WHY ZAM-BUK IS
UNEQUALLED.
Totally different in character from other oint-
ments, Zam-Buk is immeasurably superior to
them in having a threefold action on the
skin. First it allays pain and irritation;
secondly it kills harmful germs, and thus
removes all danger of a cut or sore
taking “bad ways”; and lastly, when the
bad place has thus been purified, it
grows a fresh layer of perfectly new
skin.
Because of its unique healing value,
Zam-Buk should always be kept
handy in the home, workshop,
and on the cattle station, sheep
run, or farm up country; it
may be necessary to apply
some at any moment, and the
balm is so pure and whole-
some that it can be used
with perfect safety on the most
delicate skin, whether bruised,
broken or diseased. A pot of
Zam-Buk ready for instant use
will save many hours of pain
and anxiety, as well as pounds
in doctors’ bills. A cure by
Zam-Buk can always be regarded
as permanent and lasting. Don t
delay, but obtain a pot of Zam-Buk
at once, and always keep it handy.
Zam-Buk is not a mere ointment.. It
is something quite different. It is a
superior healing balm, a necessity to
humanity, and the quickest allayer of the
ills that afflict the human skin.
Zam-Buk is invaluable for Cuts, Burns, Bruises, Pimples,
Blackheads, Scalds, Scalp Troubles, Piles. Poisoned Wounds,
Festering Eruptions, Boils. Psoriasis, Eczema, Abscesses, r ace
Blotches, Eruptions, Rheumatism, Stiffness, Bad Legs. Ulcers, Ring-
worm, Barber’s Rash, Blisters, and injured and unhealthy conditions
of the skin. From all Chemists and Stores, 1/6 and 3/0; or post free from
C. E. Fulford (Aus.), Ltd., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
the hands of a friend, and A-hu in his weak-
ness wondered.
“Where am I?’” he asked at last.
“In the hut of Sucha, the leper." answered
Lun Hi.
A-hu gazed blankly up at him. There
was a gr.n of exultation twisting the mouth
of the other man, and suddenly A-hu sensed
the vengeance his enemy planned.
“The hut of the leper!” Then this was
th<? lepers pallet on which he lay, his
wounds a thousand mouths greedily open to
infection. He was to become a leper —an
outcast from his fellow men, shut out from
all the joys of life. It was all hideously
clear to A-hu!
In a paroxysm of auger he strove to
throw himself on his enemy ; but his bonds
held, and a gush of blood from the reopened
wound in his chest weakened him again. He
sank back drawing labored breaths, and
gazing with hate-filmed eyes at the mocking
face above him.
When Lun Hi left him, he writhed from
the tickling straws of his bed, every nerve
seared with horror at the contact. He felt
himself surrounded by legions of invisible,
intangible enemies, and his heart was hot
with fear.
As the days passed his fear did not die
down, for always when Lun Hi visited the
hut bringing him food and drink, there was
that taunt upon the other’s lips.
“The hut of the leper!” he would chuckle,
gazing down at A-hu with malicious eyes.
Once in his anger A-hu thrust aside the
water jar that the other held out to him,
and the lioiiid trickled away on the earthen
floor. "There will be thirst in the
hut of the leper,” said his enemy. And
indeed that day there was torture of in-
tolerable thirst, the wounds of A-hu aching
like parched throats. Evening and noon and
night dribbled away, and the sight of his
enemy next day waß for once welcome.
To Lun Hi the other’s plight seemed to
afford a never-ending delight. Always when
he thought of it he chuckled as if over some
pleasantry, his yellow face crinkled in a
thousand creases of laughter. It was that
grim amusement of his that aroused A-hu
to repeated and useless attempts to fling
himself upon the other and crush out the
hideous mirth. But though he wasted much
of his vitality in such futile resentments,
A-hu’s strength was slowly returning to him.
A rough spot on the palm of his hand
caught his attention one day. It was a
small white scab- —the innocent healing-over
of a blister got the day of the fight. But
to A-hu, who knew nothing of the time that
leprosy takes to develop, the scab was the
first evidence of the presence of the loathed
disease. The thought of it flung him into a
hysteria of rage and fear. In high-pitched
voice, screaming at the top of his power,
he cursed Lun Hi, consigning him savagely
to all the torments of the 10 Buddhist hells,
and with appalling directness of speech
attributing to him unspeakable vices.
Lun Hi was not near enough to hear.
But others heard. At the sound of that
screaming voice coolies and boatmen frorn
the river hastened, curiosity-led, towards it.
The door of the hut was opened, and faces
peeped around it at the writhing, cursing
figure on the bed.
"It’s A-hu!” jerked an astonished voice,
and thev crowded in about him, N\ ang and
Fat Hoo and others that he knew, -they
loosened his bonds, raised him to his teet,
and supported him from the hut.
Outside his amazed eyes saw the brown
river flowing sullenly and silently between
its green-fringed banks and, nearer, the
citv wall and the terraces ot the great
pagoda. The sight of the familiar things
calmed him a little, and he spoke to tliose
about him.
"The hut of the leper? No, no! It is the
hut of the fisherman Loong, who is "ear-
ing the cangue in the Yamen courtyard.
"Lun Hi said,’’ began A-hu. and then at
sound of that hated name went oft into
another paroxysm of rage. Coolies and boat-
men listened to him in wonder, and otliers
came running. ,„ , , T „ ■
“It is the hut of the fisherman. He is
no leper. The lepers dwell on the other
side of the city,” they said. Then as A-hu
babbled on some measure of the truth came
t 0 Lun 1 * Ili had fooled A-hu —had made him
believe himself exposed to the infection of
a leper’s hut, when all the time he lay m
the healthy and wholesome shelter of the
fisherman’s dwelling!
As full understanding of the trick that
had been played upon A-hu broke upon the
bystanders, they assailed him with laughter,
pointing derisive lingers at him, and wag-
ging delighted heads.
Realising at last that he had not been
exposed to the infection of leprosy, A-hu s
heart leaped with joy. But joy was short-
lived ; for among the newcomers appeared
the mocking, triumphant face of his enemy,
and he knew suddenly that Lun Hi had
taken full revenge.
With sinking heart he saw it all. In
the years to be, whenever the river men
gathered together, the story of his enemy s
vengeance would be told, and tongues would
wag at him and derisive fingers point. He
would be forever an object of ridicule in the
eyes of his neighbors. ,
He had "lost face,” and Ins heart was
bitter within him.
D. GOODFELLOW.
Timber-Magic.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE world wus still joyous at tlie re-
turn of the sun, the Murray was a
river laced with mist, and Petersen,
sprawled in the golden light on a bale of
wool in the bows of the Kingdom; sang a
little song which he had learnt in Singa-
pore.
He was a great, fair man with the eyes
of a child. The other deck-hands knew him
as Pete, a good-enough fellow if somewhat
simple. They accepted his aloofness
because he had fists like legs of mutton, and
had picked up a knowledge of how to use
them in his roaming about the world.
The Dane was carving a wooden figure with
absorbed interest, and as his keen knife bit
into the white wood he felt m that state
of coma which was dear to him. and was
happv and at rest as he had not been since
the times of long ago when he had been
with his father in lus own country and the
fickle summer sun had come to them at the
big timber mills. , ,•>
"Another of yer purple idols. remarked
one of the hands with good-humored toler-
ance as he passed. Petersen nodded, a
child wrapped in dreams.
In bend after bend the river slipped past
as the thrashing paddles of the Kingdom
carried her upstream like a black beetle
climbing the bronze frond of a dead fern.
Suddenly she hooted, and as the plume or
steam drifted over his head the Dane looked
up. It was a greeting to a sawmill.
Across the water came the bitter-sweet
smell of rent timber and the scream of the
saws; logs were bobbing in the stream close
to the bank, and the engine thudded
solemnly beneath a canopy of blue wood-
smoke. Men looked up from their work
and waved to the steamer. Petersen drank
in the elusive scent.
“It is good!” he said softly, and his eyes
rested on the mill set in the arms of the
bright-leaved gums beneath the benediction
of the radiant skies. And then against
a mountain of dark-red sawdust lie saw a
girl. The distance was too great for him
to make out her features, but her hair was
the tone of the wood behind her and her body
was as lithe as a young tree She was
sitting in a forked log which had apparently
been placed as a chair for her, and she
stared out across the river. She waved her
hand and Peter signalled back to her. rie
felt that the greeting had been to him, and
basking there in voluptuous warmth he lelt
a thrill at the thought.
The beetle crawled along, and a bend or
the river carried the mill away, but Petersen
saw it st'll, vivid and alive—the red hair
against the mountain of the wood’s heart,
the tugging logs, the crying saw. He smelt
the acrid breath of the mill.
The river swept the township and its
spider-legged wharf down upon them, and the
time for dreams had gone.
“Wake up, Pete, you lazy cow!” yelled
the Old Man. “This ain’t a pleasure trip.
They swung the wool bales up from the
deck on the cranes, three at a time, and with
much noise and bustle. Petersen, who had
already earned the reputation of working
like a hero with the good-humor of a baby,
did his share, but he was living within him-
self. The other hands noticed it and tried
to awaken him, but Petersen growled and
they left him alone. The manner in which
he juggled the bales about was sufficient
warning.
The sun was climbing down the heavens
before the task was done and the men were
free. Petersen went with the boys and
drank his quota of “pinky,” but tne li re-
toothed wine failed to loosen his tongue. The
others boasted, jested and drank, but Peter-
sen onlv stared into the ruby heart of his
glass. ‘To the eye the Dane was calm
as a great banana as he lolled against the
bar. but his mind was full of the picture of
the mill and the flavor of the wood-smell.
He left them then and went out into the
moonlight. The air was as crisp as glass,
and he walked slowly along the road which
followed the river bank to the mill. Pres-
ently his brain cleared and the force which
seemed to have been guiding his feet waned.
With a good-humored curse he turned and
went back to his bunk on the Kingdom.
“I am the madman,” was his view of the
position.
They loaded next day and pounded away
down-stream, and the girl of the mill was
still sitting there and the breath of the wood
came to Petersen. She waved to him again
and he was glad. They saw her on the re-
turn journey, and Petersen vowed that he
would visit the mill. But his heart failed
him as he considered what his feelings would
be when he arrived there —he was a dreamer.
Petersen ; he dwelt on his picture and feared
to approach too close lest the colors should
lose their magic.
To and fro the Kingdom went on her jour-
neyings along the waterways. Sometimes
the paddles beat the muddy Mnrrumbidgee,
sometimes the treacherous .shallows of the
Wakool or the broad, calm road of the
parent stream; but when the craft crept
back the girl with the red hair was waiting
with her greeting to the Kingdom and to
Petersen —especially Petersen. The rivers
were growing dear to him. dearer than any
of the places in which he had halted before,
lie loved them for their sunny days and star-
bright nights, for the endless plains in the
purple dusk, for the golden reaches when
the sun went down. The Saga of Petersen,
world-wanderer, was a sung sopg.
But the timber lure was upon him, and
the time came when the skipper lost his best
man.
“What are you going to do with yourself?”
asked the boys as they clustered around him
on the wharf.
“Goin’ up the mill,” said Petersen.
They shook their heads at this—there was
hard work up there.
“Pete urns’ be shook on Singleton’s daugh-
ter,” hazarded Sam with a laugh.
Petersen made no answer, but he shifted
uneasily.
“Funny, that girl.” said the skipper, “the
way she sits there day after day like a
picture, and waves to the steamers—and she
never able to see one of them.”
“Aye,” said Sam, “murder! —a tabbie like
that blind !”
There was no hint of his feelings on the
face of the Dane, but his big fists were
clenched.
“You’d better- have a few drinks before you
go.” suggested the skipper.
“Thanks, no!” said Petersen in a muffled
voice. “No —I be gettin’ along.”
He nodded around curtly, and with long,
swinging strides passed up the ribbon of road
which led to the scented mill.
DALE COLLINS.


KW,;;:
■
,
:
.
. H
, ■ -
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 4 14.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
Queensland Agents— HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Sh eet, Wellington.
Victorian Office SS Queen Stieet, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Horlick's Malted Milk contains
all requisite forms of nourish-
ment. That is what makes
Horlick's so rich so delicious.-
If you have not yet tried Hor-
lick’s, there is a great treat la
store for you-
HORL!CK\S
MALTED MILK
đ
0 :
d
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY.
&U,to
■gout
AND RHEUMATIC PILLS
The Famous Medicine that relieves
RHIIIMATISM, G JUT, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA,
The Great Discovery ol the AJo.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. English price, 1/3 and 3/-.
Prout & Co., 229, Strand, London.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at. home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 115. High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
WRIGLEYS
The Greatest Name
In Goody-land
53#
P/GLEYS,
PERFECT
THE
GUM
AS
iWRIGIIYS
iTfllMflM’mL
I
H
n
CHEWING GUM
&
- '■ *
■ m
SEALED
TIGHT
KEPT
RIGHT
6 big bars
in each
packet
for 3d.
d
' Made by
WRIGLEY'S (Australasia) LTD
.
Rosebery, Sydney, N.S.W.
04
§!(
mM
mmm^
Kllllll!
i
m
mm
WWR
m
'Mi
i
a
Bg
P>J WgjN#
==mßm
v/j
Nfe
nnn MS
0
IHS
mill
ft
id 1
j£nj
ssf|
M
IK
G
gess
US©
'm
v
SSI
din
a
Q
■i
%
A Nlnill ■llll*
!■«
W/m
I
■«s
SBSSS
»A
urn
m
m
m
P 3
Vk
m
"777 i ?EJSK2&ireffl
s#SS^^il4rSss*%<
<te*s
9
f ffoAnS&mvn |
Stfifllli
CAS HSC© NAMES
The Best You Can Get
for Marking Linen
Whether Household or Personal —en-
sures your property against lost. Any
Name woven into a Fine Cambric Tape
in Fast Color. Always ready to be sewn
to any garment or article on any material
Prices— 12doz. 4/6, 6doz. 3/3,3d0z. 2/3
Sold by All Best Drapers
Made in Australia by
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.,
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Vic.
Write for Style Book
673
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Beil 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Offloe—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ď
Miliars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Suppi-t
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beuins, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LOUD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
88} PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Rinnohoc in nil nnrts of wo r ’' 1 .
.'.nr:-':'-;
mm
Wii
nm
wrr
Remjnpotl
38 & 44 Cal. Rifles
and Cartridjes
There is a demand among sportsmen for a
rifle of medium size and price, yet with the
requisite shocking power to effectually “stop’*
the game. The Remington eleven-shot re-
peater —38-40 and 44 calibre —is invaluable
for general use. Accurate up to 300 yards.
Inquire of your dealer, who
can order for you. Cat- 1 ’
alogues free upon i
đ
d
C-1
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne


NGROVTFE
LEATHER
ELTI
For Better Belting Service.
The quality of “Mangrovite’ enables it to
give better service, because it is well and
carefully made from selected hides that have
been specially tanned.
The result is—Strength, and flexibility beyond
the ordinary, at a moderate price. There-
fore economy—the guiding star of every wise
power-plant owner—bids you instal “Man-
grovite.”
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Lticlowici, Managing Director),
40 York Street (Wynyard Bquare), Sydney,
W. Australia: Cibbs, 3right &Co., Fremantle
B’th Australia: John Raid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
VJctoria and Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co.,
Melbourne.
Continuous Service.
This fact has been proven so often by expert machinists that they much prefer
“D.S.W.” BRAND STEEL
—the special steel for turning tools to use on Brass, Copper, Bronze and
White Metal.
Full particulars for hardening, which are simple, given in our" stock list —
get one to-day.
“D.S.W.” Brand Steel is stocked in squares from Jin. to ljin.
Prices promptly supplied on request to Desk “A.”
The Eaffle (Si Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel, 379-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY
Dick’s Batata Belting
for True Economy.
trade:
Sole Agents: Registered
*
QZ
<
2
JAMESHARDIE & COY. LTD.
‘‘Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
'Phone 8456 (6 Lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Newcastle Agents—Paul & Cray Ltd.
The Greater the Heat the Harder it iSets.
Purimachos Fire Cement
CAPABLE OF WITHSTANDING HIGH TEMPERATURES WITHOUT CRUMBLING OR CONTRACTING.
MORE ECONOMICAL THAN FIRECLAY. USED BY THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT.
M ' • •
PURIMACHOS CEMENT, on account of the economy affected by its use and its fire-resisting properties, is increasingly used for building
and repairing structures of every kind exposed to heat. It is very plastic, and can be easily applied to hot or cold surfaces. When first
heated it slightly expands, and then immediately sets perfectly hard. When used instead of fireclay, the work is far more durable, and
this reduces the cost and frequency of subsequent repairs.
GENERAL PURPOSES.
GAS WORKS. —For building, setting, repairing and glazing Retorts; for applying
to the faces of Retort Beds to prevent absorption of air; for fixing
Mouth Pieces; for building and repairing Furnaces, Flues, etc.
ELECTRICITY -WORKS. —For building and repairing the fire-brickwork of
Furnaces, Flues, IJoiler Beatings and Bridges, and pointing exterior
brickwork.
IRON WORKS. —-For building or lining the interiors and floors of Blast Furnace
Stoves; for jointing and patching Hot-Blast Pipes; for Building and
repairing Furnaces, Ovens, Cupolas, Muffles, etc.
STOVE and RANGE MANUFACTURERS. —For setting firebricks in Stoves,
Ranges, etc., and for making metal joints gas or smoke tight.
COKE OVENS, —For building and plastering the interiors of Ovens; for washing
the interior of Ascension Pipes to facilitate the .removal of carbon.
BAKERS’ OVENS.—For building and pointing the fire-brickwork of Ovens and
Flues.
PLUMBERS and STEAMFITTERS. —For setting fire-brickwork in Furnaces,
Stoves, Grates, Ranges or Ovens; for repairing the backs and sides of
Grates and Ranges when broken, or to prevent the escape of smoke; for
fixing Ornamental Tiles; for repairing cracked Boilers and for jointing
Water or Steam Pipes if sufficient heat can be applied to harden it before
use; for general use on Steamboats. »
MISCELLANEOUS.- For a large number of other purposes, such as for repair-
ing Japanning Stoves, Kilns, Annealing Muffles, Brass Furnaces, Galvan-
ising' Baths, Ladles or Crucibles, Ship Boilers and Galley Stoves; for
covering Steam Boilers or Pipes to prevent radiation of heat.
PURIMACHOS CEMENT IS SOLD IN DRUMS, AND IS READY FOR IMMEDIATE USE.
NO SPECIAL SKILLED LABOR IS NECESSARY TO APPLY THIS WONDERFUL PREPARATION,
TOLL particulars sent aw™ Sole Agents . SWAM LIMITED, 304 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE
Repairs to Wolseiey Pattern Handpieces.
Our workshops are splendidly equipped to handle repair work on Wolseley handpieces.
Special machinery and a highly-skilled staff of men experienced in repairing and
adjusting the working parts ensure the very best results.
Two Important Patented Improvements will also be introduced into all shears that
are sent to us at the small cost of 1/6; other repairs at schedule rates.
Write for further particulars; or, better, sepd us your handpieces at once.
DALGETY and CO., LTD., Australasian Agents.
a
a
We manufacture what is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Lines listed.
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shewn, ball valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from lfin. to Sin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include: —
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRACT WORK—Send Specifications
ALDERDICE LTD., Warrnambool
DELGO-LIGHT
A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
a
Runs on
Kerosene
Safe.
Reliable
One Gallon of Kerosene
will light 32 Lamps for
FULL PARTICULARS FROM SOLE AGENTS—
W.S.W. & Victoria: VVAIIBURTON, FRANKI LTD.,
809 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO. LTD., Brisbane;
1
High-grade Tools for
Modern Machine Shop Equipment,
KEMPiSMITH
Plain & Universal Milling' Machines
to-day stand as the type of highest development in Milling Machine construction, and we can confidently
recommend them as Machines of the highest efficiency in the RAPID PRODUCTION OF ACCURATE WORK.
They are designed to meet the greatly increased strains imposed by modern milling methods, and are therefore
capable of CONTINUED SERVICE AT THE FULL EFFICIENCY OF HIGH-SPFUD CUTTERS.
We invite inspection of our stock of these Modern Tools, also High-Grade
Shaping, Planing, Drilling', Screwing and Grinding Machines.
High-speed QuicK Change Gear Engine Lathes and all Engineers' Requisites.
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd.,
Engineers §
60 Clarence St., Sydney.
