

—The Spirit of Age and Wisdom
R. G. WATKINS dfe CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney.
Mining ancl Contractors’ .Plant, Engineers’'“and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WEADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY
TERMS:
OH ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION.
NSW-MONT de PIETE
~ Tsl C?T LIMITED.
74 Castlereagh St.74. Sydney
CAPITAL 5.200,000 ‘Phone City 9325
fif&ac/ies Jt- 29 Kmc Sr„NEw«STLt.N-SW- PISI7 swa«toust MftbVn
40 Adelaide $1 Brisbane.!). B7*Castlereagh 5t.,159 George St. West, Sydney.
Joseph W Hill, General nana&er.
r
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
.vampire the 'charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
For unfavorable climatic ami working
conditions we recommend
ii
99
(Chrome Tan Feather),
The Super Driving Belt.
It gives longer and more efficient service.
J.C.LudowiciSSonLtd.
Tanners & Feather Belting Makers,
Pioneer Works,
117 York Street, Sydney
THE BEST !
H
m
3
im
n
m
a
pmrfi
n
im
JUNKET made from these genuine. Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
Junket,
um
For INDIGESTION
ana DYSPEPSM
One of these specially prepared Tablets acta
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
P& B WATERPROOF
WRAPPING PAPER
Protection for yarn
and piece-goods bales.
P. &B. PAPER is of great tensile strength, completely waterproof. Provides
the ideal covering for bales.
P. & B. PAPER is pliable. It is so strong that outward pressure against the
iron hoops will not break through. Bales wrapped with P. &B. PAPER can
be sprayed with a hose, and the yarn or cloth inside will remain bone-dry.
This paper is odorless. P. & B. PAPER is made of “rope Manila’’ fibre, so
that its unusual strength is retained in the most humid climate.
Packed in rolls—dour rolls to the crate. Each roll contains a sheet three feet
wide and 334 feet long—looo square feet.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (,F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
A now unit revised edition of the
“Referee ” is ‘now available,
and will be sent post free on
application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY,
&
d
e* s
td^ e
sYve
recognised standard
quality throughout
sth
i
(The Square Bottle with
* ■ ' .C ’ y
the Heart-shaped Label.)
Agents—OßME, KEIGWIN (S b Co., Ltd., SYDNEY.
"LANCASHIRE” All- British Motors.
The name “LANCASHIRE” is accepted throughout the world as a
guarantee of dependable electrical equipment. It represents the high-
water mark of British Electrical Engineering.
Lancashire Motors are powerfully built, of the highest-grade
materials only, to stand hard usage and carry overloads without undue
heating or drop in efficiency.
All machines are built to limit gauges, and spare parts can be relied
upon to interchange perfectly with originals.
Send your inquiries for LANCASHIRE MOTORS, GENERATORS,
MOTOR GENERATORS, BOOSTERS, BAR ANGERS, individual machines
or complete equipments-, regardless of size.
We afeo have stocks of A.C. and D.C. Motors; % to 100 8.H.P., for
all standard voltages. Also IGRANIC MACHINE TOOL CONTROLLERS
and SELF-ACTING SWITCHES for D.C., SLIP-RING or SQUIRREL-
CAGE MOTORS.
“LANCASHIRE” All-British Motors, Generators, Motor Generators,
Roosters, Balancers, etc.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
(MELBOURNE) PTY„ LTD., 499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne; and Darling Buildings, Adelaide.
AGENTS: J. R. W. GARDAM, Perth ; arid CHAS. E. BERNAYS, 125 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
opaljOid
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay.
opaiiOed
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2114.
Thursday, August 19, 1920.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE NEW LIBRARY ('ATALOYr’i;
for 1920 is now ready, and will ho posted
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.. 428
Street, .Sydney.
Waterman’s^lFountainPen
—the Pen you can trust.
When you buy a Fountain Pen
you wan a pen that you can
use at any time, anywhere, a pen
that can be trusted to wihe
whenever you want to write.
You can’t buy a better or more
responsive pen than Waterman's
Ideal—the pep that is used by
the world's busiest men. Get
one to-day and you 11 use it for life.
Three Types : “ Self - filling,”
‘ Safety” and Kegiilar.” Of
Stationers and Jewellers every-
where.
L. G. SLOAN. Ltd.,
Ojzjtcn Corner
Lon,don England
Australia; Harold D. Lixon,
105. Clarence Street, Sydney.
mm
i
W ?
This Week’s Toilet Hints
THE LATEST AND SMARTEST BEAUTY RECIPES COLLECTED
FROM VARIOUS EXPERT BEAUTY WRITERS.
A “BLACKHEAD” SECRET.
An instantaneous remedy for blackheads,
oily skin, and enlarged pores.
Blackheads, oily skins and enlarged pores
usually go together, but can be instantly
corrected by a unique new process. A tablet
of sty mol is dropped in a tumbler of hot
water, which will then of course “fizz”
briskly. When the effervescence has subsided
the face is bathed with the stymol-charged
water and then dried with a towel. The
offending blackheads, of their own accord,
come right off on the towel, the large oily
pores immediately contract and efface
themselves naturally. There is uo squeezing,
forcing or any drastic* action. The skin is
left uninjured, smooth, soft: and cool. A few
such treatments should Ice taken at inter-
vals of three or four days thereafter it
order to ensure the permanence of the pleas
ing result so quickly obtained. Sty mol tablet
are obtainable from your chemist i;
original packages.
GREY HAIR—HOME REMEDY .
An old-fashioned home-made recipe restore
youthful appea ra lice.
There are plenty of reasons why grey
hair is not desirable, and plenty of reasons
why hair dyes should noc be. used. But.
on the other hand, there is no reason why.
you should have grey hair if you do not
want it. To turn the hair back to a natural
color is really a very simple matter. One
lias only to get from the chemist two ounces
ol concentrate of tainmalite and mix it with
three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the lmii.
with a small sponge for a few nights ami
the gryyness will gradually disappear. This
liquid is not sticky or greasy and does not
injure the hair in any way. It bps hem.
used for generations with most satisfactory
results by those who have known the for
mula.
TO KILL ROOTS OK SI PERFLUOUS
„ HAIR.
“Home Science.”
t \\onion annoyed witli disfiguriiig growth?*
<0 superfluous hair,wish to know not merely
how .to temporarily remove' the hail', but how
to kill the hair-roots permanently. For this
purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair
growth. The recommended treatment is de-
signed not only to instantly remove the hair,
but also to actually kill the roots so that
the. growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol, obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient,
THE real cause of most bah
COMPLEXIONS.
“Health and Beauty.'’
It is an accepted fact that no;"truly
beautiful complexion ever came out of jars
and bottles, and the longer one uses cos-
metics the worse the complexion becomes.
Skin, to he healthy, must breathe. It also
must expel, through the pores, its share of
the body's effete material 1 . Creams and
powders clog the pores, interfering both
with elimination and breathing. If more
women understood this there would be fewer
-•elf-ruined complexions. If they would use
ordinary mercolised wax instead of cos-
metics they would have natural, healthy
• mplexions.
ABOUT HAIII TONICS.
“Novel Recipes.”
Each week almost one hears of some
wonderful discovery for improving tlie hair,
md although this paragraph may seem a
little superfluous, an old-fashioned recipe
may come as a welcome change. One tiling
a bolt- jt is that it will grow hair, and also
prevent it falling out. From your chemist
get an original package of boranium. to this
add 1-pint of bay rum. allow it to stand
30 minutes, then add sufficient water to
make half-a-pint. Rub briskly into the
scalp with the finger-tips, and you will im-
mediately experience that clean tingling
sensation which is a sure sign of healthy
action. ! 1
sdfs
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
APPOI
df
TO
THE KINQ
SCRUBBSAMMONIA
; -f
allays the irritation of INSECT BITES.
Of al 1 Grocers, Chemists, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICJORIA.
sdf
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
For COUGHS! COLDS! INFLUENZA!
and the PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION!
552
SON
HARMFUL THROAT TABLETS.
Throat Tablets and Lozenges containing Formalin
(Formaldehyde) arc harmful. Wiley, of the Cnited
States, investigated the effect's of small doses of
Formalin (Formaldehyde) given with milk on 12
men during 15 days. Burning in the throat, itching
rash and loss of body -weight were observed.
HUDSON'S EUMENTIIOL JUJUBES
contain no Formalin. Cocaine of other harmful or
poisonous drug.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6 ; or forward 1/6 in stamps
to the Manufacturers, Hudson's Eumenthol Chemical
Co., Ltd., Sydney. [1
The Red Page
Alice Meynell
John Ruskin. a better writer than critic,
said of Mrs. Meynell’s verse: “The last
verso of that perfegtly-heavenly ’Letter from
a Girl to Her Own Old Age,', the whole of
'San Lorenzo's Mother,’ and the end of
the sonnet To a Daisy' are the finest things
1 have yet seen or felt in modern verse.”
A vain, William Sharp has a piece to say :
“In its class I know of no nobler or more
beautiful sonnet than ‘Renouncement’: and
I have so considered ever since the day I
first heard it. when Rossetti (who knew it
by heart), repeating it to me. added that
it was one of the three finest sonnets writ-
ten by women." George Meredith Comes in
with a word or two of his opinion of Mrs.
Mo.vnell’s essays. “They leave a sense of
stilled singing in the mind they fill.'' he#says.
among other laudatory things.
Sometimes the late Victorian critics were
right; perhaps more often than the Geor-
gians admit. Ruskin expresses a personal
admiration whose enthusiasm not even the
words “perfectly heavenly" can spoil; and
he picks out the best of Mrs. Meynell's
work published "at that date. Sharp is.cau-
tious behind the double hedge of Rossetti
and "in its class,” blit “Renouncement” is
probably the most moving, poignant, thing
tile poet has written. Meredith’s bfnnion
of the prose shows the craftsman’s eye at
its clearest, without hedging or confusing
enthusiasm.
There is a long time between those expres-
sions of opinion and this one'. Yet from the.
artificer point of view the four opinions arm
. the same as to-day's. At discreet intervals
I’urns and Oates, the Catholic publishers
of London, collect and issue in book form
the scattered verse and prose of Mrs. Mey-
nell. If the verse fails a little now In some
narrowing of the vision, the prose has still
the ineffable quality which Meredith saw
and applauded all those years ago. It is
a singular quality, difficult to describe, or
even to "'define, satisfactorily. She takes the
by-ways of thought in which sshe is person-
ally interested, and lifts them up first to
the admiration and then to the sympathetic'
interest of the reader. This is done by a
most harmonious and happy wedding of
verse- and prose-thought. For example, the
opening of her essay orw“The Foot”: —
■Time was when no good news made a journey,
and no friend came near, hut a welcome Was uttered
(>.- at least thought, for the travelling feet of the
wayfarer or the herald. ' The feet, the feet were
beautiful on the mountains; their toil was the price
m all communication, and their reward the fii-stt
service and refreshment. They were blessed and
bathed : they sufFered. but they were friends with
the earth ; (lews in grass at morning, shallow rivers
at noon, gave them coolness. They must have grown
hard upon their mountain paths, yet never So hard
but they needed and had the first, pi tv and the
readiest succor.
From that tine opening the hssay traces
the foot through its beauty, its tender silfence
in the ,vineyard and the harvest, its
mystic exactitude in the monastery: and
it: closes gently with the metrical foot
in verse. There is much music in the sen-
tences. music which is never only that of
smoothness, music that is never, self-con-
scious. The author does not depend upon
the balance of her sentences for effective
diction, nor upon the unusualness- of her
thought for interest. There is no strong
climax ; the work cannot be called mere plea--
- sant. wandering; it cannot quite be called
literature for the student, although that is
perhaps the best short definition of it. Yet
its delicacy carries a tremendous impression
of power, as if these out-of-the-way thoughts
were a count a# Hint letters would do well
to explore and exploit thoroughly.
There is an essay on'“Solitude” which
wads like articulate silence.: and one upon
“The.. Spirit of Place" typified by the differ-
ing voices of the bells in the places singing
an eternal wanderlust of the mind. “The
Color of Life.” “Rushes and Reeds.”
“Laughter." “Shadows”—all sorts of sub-
jects are taken, vivified with moving words
and left in a good place in the grateful
memory. .NVhen the subject seems most un-
snited to further, or indeed any, discourse,
then is its literary consideration quietly and
unfalteringly shown to be a mental pleasure
that the reader had unaccountably mis.secL-
a noble pleasure which should surely have
been within his reach long ago. That effect
in th<> mind of the reader is not got by trick-
ery or by the “cunning” that Mrs. Meyaell’s
• critics speak of, or by artificial cleverness
nr strangeness. There is only one way to
reach that height of literary achievement.
That is by the simple presentment of liter-
ary truths, whether they be on the highway
'nr everyone or in the byways for the
indent. The natural result of the popu-
irit.v of Mrs. Meynell’s work is that every-
nr becomes a student. And nothing could
ho happier than that.
The cloistral, contemplative spirit is as
strong in the verse as in the prose. But
in the later songs it is evident that the deli-
cate. choice of words forced by Mrs. Mey-
nell’s matter must have a cramping, narrow-
ing effect on. verse. Prose can be limited in
thought, but the poet cannot sing in any
boundaries- or. rather, perhaps the limita-
tions imposed on prose must not be acknow-
ledged by verse. Hence Mrs. Meynell’s latest
book of poems, is in the mass unconvincing
and much too obviously literary expression
for- the student. In the' light she'd by the
perfect essays it is difficult to speqk even
ai oarentlv disparagingly of any of the
author’s work. But verse is not how her
proper medium. She sits in her place apart,
ah >ve the rough and tumble of journalism
find current letters; and criticism, adverse
"" otherwise, does not matter very much.
T' o effect of that states of tilings is to be
sec a in' the songs that ebrae now. Their
appreciative audience grows smaller and
smaller, as the hungry audience of the essays
will, one hopes, grow larger and larger.
HILARY LOFTING.
Length in Fiction
“iVJafy McO.” writing about the length
of . novels ( Red I’age 22/7/'-Q ). 'says : “A
play is very often a-novel -as it ought to |y
with the padding taken out.” Padding? What
is Hie pnddihg? It doesn’t exist.; at" leas;
not in the sense of stuffing thrown in to
bulk out something naturally meagre. Let
us see thh thing clearly., A novel may con-
sist of an idea, a set of situations, a start-
ling character—almost anything that can be
talked about. And every novel is simple in
conception—simple in that it is reducible to
a hare, hard outline or synopsis. 1 will
undertake to epitomise for you any novel
whatever, from Dickens to Dostoevsky, but
nobody will prefer the epitome to the
original. 1 could make nearly every novel
into a bewildering, furious one-act play that
any man could read between soup and
dessert; but it would tint stop him from
reading the novel before supper. The fact
is the so-called padding ?'* the novel. Length
does not matter. The padding-is actually the
part-that people require when they specify
a "novel.” An idea will lit equally well into
it novel or a pi,ay. just—as a rabbit will lit
equally well into a stew or .a pie. To
demand a novel witl4n.lt "padding” is like
demanding a-pie without crust. There are
long and short novels, just as there are big
ami little' pies; but the difference is merely
one of size. There is no artistic superiority
for either of them.
If length goes, then we must abandon the
•whole artistic development that* has gr’own
up in that length. All the cunning of Mere-
dith and Hardy and Hissing adapted itself
to set conditions. There w,as no, thought of
deliberate padding; they simply laid out their
design within their boundaries. The modern
novelists write to whatever lengths are
fashionable. There may come a time.wlleu
"Mr. Kritling” will be considered far too long
for ordinary reading. There may come a
time, when all the* nourishment we derive
from a dinner will be compressed into a few
pink tabloids. What does it matter? As
things are at present “Mr. Britling” is a
satisfying book; you couldn’t remove a page
without losing something of value. Every
Smallest digression is an integral part of the
whole.
The tendency is, I admit, towards brevity ;
but intrinsically a long bbok is no better or
worse than a short one. People will read
both sorts. The short novel is a com-
paratively new arrival in the field of fiction,
and it is becoming increasingly familiar.
I»ut why condemn the longer sorts as in-
artistic? Isn t it a. matter not of art, but
of convenience?
And I imagine, somehow, that the older,
longer books are better, friendlier, richer.
\ 011 may snap up half-a-dozen-of vour new
condensed, novels while I ym plodding along
with my ‘‘David Oopperfield” or my "Henry
Esmond ': but I shall not begrudge you your
numbers. “The educated world is busy; it
bus much to choose from jn fiction.” says
" u ”rv McC.” But this is the crv of the
distressed reviewer, deluged and disheartened
'•oh u flood of books that have to bo read,
and not of the normal -reader. Why choose
xt all? Why read everything? Reading is
not a matter of sucking a book dry. like an
orange, and throwing the husk away ; but of
living through a hundred amazing enter-
prises with the -characters of the talc. No
need'to'read everything to -do that.
ALAN B.
The Records of Old V.D.L,
. I' utare historians of Tasmania will have
a big enough quarry to .drawmaterials from.
The historical records, which J. Moore-
-11 oh in son is trying to reduce to some sort of
order, fill over 1000 fat volumes of .MSS.,
apart from huge masses of printed matter,
reports. Parliamentary papers and all sorts
of odds and ends.
The MSS. volumes begin in 1825. when
the Speck detached from X. S. Wales.
From 1825 to the beginning of responsible
government in the. early 'fifties the Gover-
nor’s despatches form a sort of diary of the
doings of the colony, and the enclosures are
full of interesting stuff about the life, of the
times. - For the period before 1825 there is
Aery little material except the transcripts
which Bonwiek made in London, and which
give a good deal of information about Collins
and the founding of Hobart. Grim things
are tohl in deathly coldness about the penal
settlements,' In a report on Macquarie Ilar-
I lo _r written in 1827. the Commandant, Cap-
tain Butler, mentions that convicts who
attempted to escape from the settlement and
went southward were bound to perish. If thev
did not die of starvation and exposure they
fell an easy prey to the aborigines, who were
very hostile: and. lie added that mariners
who had put into Port Davey had noticed
many skeletons of absconders*on that deso-
late coast.
The records include reams of reports and
letters by S. A. Bobinson. who rounded up
and brought in the last of the Tasmanian
abos. He must have been a hardy bird, for
he made a trip overland from Recherche by
way of the New River to Port Davey, and
then right up the West Coast to Cape'Grim,
a journey which no one has repeated since.
Ho and his party carried a supply of oat-
meal with them, and for tlm rest they lived
on badgers, bandicoots, ringtail ’possums and
-other produce of the country. On many of
his jaunts .be was accompanied by two
prisoners of the Crown, which disposes of
a legend., that his only companions were
tame abos.
In those days the Vandiemonians weren’t
afraid to tackle new. industries, includ-
ing some that are extinct. In the 'twenties
one Piesso started growing tobacco on
Maria Island, hut you will find no tobacco
cultivated in Tasmania to-day. Shipbuilding
boomed in all sorts of out-of-the-way corners,
the manufacture of Woollen goods was going
on a| Maria Island in the ’twenties, and the
Commandant was very keen on making soap
with the help of barilla ashes. For years
Hobart w*s one of • the world’s greatest
whaling ports, and Tasmanian-built ships
worked as far afield as Kerguelen Land on
the west and South America' on the east.
At the same time Launceston traders, sealers
and hunters ranged over the'southern coast
of Australia and founded the first-permanent
settlements in Victoria. South Alls, and pns-
siblv n esjraka. But the gold rushes to
(Continued on page 24.)


GathoiuiHocderiisfoje
s
df
From small beginnings Anthony Horderns’
have in the last century developed this
magnificent pile of buildings. Service has
ever been the motto of the house. In tender-
ing thanks to an appreciative public, Anthony
Horderns’ are determined in the future, no
less than in the past, to make the service of
the public their chief care.
We pay carriage to any part of N.S.W. and
to the nearest inter-State or Island port on
Fashion Goods and Family Drapery, Men’s
Wear, Boots and Shoes, Cutlery and Electro-
plate and Jewellery. Your orders are executed
by our skilled mail-order staff trained to
intelligently interpret your instructions. Write
for price list of anything you want; a copy
will be sent you by return.
*
u
V?
* £
is
zl
m
m
m
r>
4 B
a nil
a .
ffiMßi'P
lift
iH i iW i 1
iimiTi
Mil
a
aßwaiiiffiiHiHii
111
ff
i Si
«
vm
i m
f
s!h
>
LIVE
ILL
$
Our Portfolio of the Fashions for Spring and
Summer will shortly be available. A copy of
this authoritative guide to the Season’s Styles
should be in every home. Write for a copy
to-day; it is free on request.
ANTHONY HORDERN H SONS,U2
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
uvt ''■S
Aa
P^S
VI
II
H
P
d
3
o
u
13


CHUNDER LOO SAYING GOOD BYE TO DEPARTING PRINCE,
i
Ut
\
V
mm
c
Ktitßk
A „• '*s:•
*V n ■
IN
nr
'■MrMZ i
■: AV
■mmm
Wl4
pzj,
$2
* < *<Z
I
i
1 «
S§|§ fSrall&F
jl fi|
111 irnlW
sm u¥:nW.
ML - * *
*V
SSriu . .
iff ffgi f
IS sift
m
ml
K/Sly
iiSf *
KS
sM tS
/
H »»
-> ■£
iZM. £ss
v'zMii
m
/ASIA
M
I
smfti :Mfl
SmtSe. tet i
m
mimm
mi imsm
V.
X
! Sty
§m mm
mm
tm
m im
iSMUV
£ -£
f
«eb» ■/,
■SM
/
m
WWMM 1
ffe
mam
y: *a
i-y t .<
85r
-s* •■'
ter.
Ji
im :■>:
ritSraAV-S.S
aa^gjESlSggty
/m w
.
Z
mm
MK
3-SK
mapmm
SMi I
/■
j* .<• .-v
§lssgl!|®
a
Es*
f r
/s«
s«*a«griMl
>, jf| i it *
Mlf*
'****'*
•lyofW>t*
sraajs?
: ;•■•••>•
m
/T
m
v> „
EKass
M
in
.< V'
?<sg§9&
-<«****'
.ssm
j?
«yr^
X
<4
Cobra,” S6e Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
To his Highness
Says “Adieu!
“Always glad to
See you, sir!
“Bushmen will use
Whip and spur
see
“Just to
Your pleasant face
Any time you
Strike this place.
“Tell the King
Our hearts are right
“And Australia’s
COBR A’-bright. “


sdv
For Constipation
Constipation is dangerous be-
cause it means that poisonous
materials which should have been
expelled from the body are being
retained. The appetite fails, diges-
tion becomes disordered and the
breath offensive. Pinkettea, the new
laxative, are a real help in correct-
ing constipation.
They do not aggravate the com-
plaint as strong purgatives do; and
they do not wear out in their effects.
Taken according to directions they
assist the patient so that the use of
an opening medicine is not a con-
stant necessity.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.*
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
eluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Book now for Winter months.
Tariff from 15/- per day, or from
3J4 guineas per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS l
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
wm
111
H
MADE llili
BRITISH
Perfection
rubber.
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Room 5, 2nd Floor, 227 Collins St., Melbourne
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
CELEBRATED
r
vV
a
The Rapid Cure for Corns
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young:—hard or soft, and
that remedy is A’CORN SILK, which
removes the worst corn in a few days, and the
sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure —it kills them. It is a painless cure —
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no" preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
K. W. Bradley, Fitzroy Buildings, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Aberdeen House,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart.
R. H. Maxwell & Co., 18 Howard Street,
Perth, W. A. [1
i omasa
4
■
Carry all in trvis
Suede Carry-all.
The Handiest o/
Bags at 12/6.
X 26 is just as illustrated, a smartly-designed Suede Carry-all
in a wide variety of colors to select from. 1 rench grey,
or tan look equally effective. It is hand-laced all round,
and has an inside purse.
POST FREE FROM
The American Bag Stores Ltd.
Corner Pitt and King Streets; Strand
Arcade, Pitt Street; Sydney Arcade, George
Street, Sydney.
THE DENYER ECLIPSE
TRIPLE CRUSH EMASCULATOR
is in great demand by keen-thinking Stockowners The scientific c ® ns
ibis instrument ensures quicker, easier and better results. It is hand toig
from the best steel for durability, and each instruments thoroughly tested before
being sent mit. Adopt this better method of castration-it saves times and money
and eliminates the danger of haemorrhage, Whmh always attends the of old-
fashioned instruments and methods. Secure your Eclipse luple Ciush Emasculatoi
from a big consignment just arrived.
Pries 60/- N.S.W. Postage, 9d.; Interstate 1/2.
DENYER BROS.,
Veterinary-
Specialists*
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
APTAIN
....
ft
TiSW
whisky*
ALL HOTELS AND
LICENSED GROCERS
4263
WHISKY
frfELLOWED with age
and primed with all the zest-
giving qualities that only expert
distillation can pro-
duce.
The Greatest
Marvel of
the Age.
376
s»
So Simple a Child
It. Can Work It.
376
Hand Embroiderer
Embroiders in a day what would take a month
by hand.
Works anything on anything.
From the Finest Georgette to the
Thickest Curtain Material.
Printed instructions with every also free demonstrations
and teaching at Malcolm Buildings, Malcolm Lane, near Bridge
Street, Sydney; and at Room Six, 6th Floor, Stock Exchange
Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVE (WHOLESALE ONLY) :
Eastern Trading Co. Ltd., Malcolm Place, Sydney.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Pagan Gods.
The Pagan gods laughed loud above the dm
Of earth's first days and all that moved
therein,
And, by their careless laughter comforted,
The Man and Woman dreamed of their first
sin.
“To-day is ours,” the Woman said, “to
weep
Or laugh before the vanquished sun shall
sleep
Through chill and shuddering gusts of
darkness, dead,
When, though we would, we have not eyes
to reap
“The golden apples of our love and youth,
Nor taste their rounded happiness and ruth—
The ripened fruit of a more ripened bliss
Than this we know of innocence and truth. ’
And Man, who listened, straight forgot to
strive —
What mattered it that Knowledge should
deprive
His soul of immortality? Their kiss,
Thus charmed with subtle glamor, would
survive!
“Taste,” urged the Pagan gods—“a fog of
days
Shall burn to splendid zenith with your
praise;
The apple which you crave obliterates
The shameful fact that Life and Love
decays.
“We speak full-knowing glories of red wine
Crushed from the purple grapes whose sap
divine
Filters the soul and even death elates,
Till what we would we have, and less
resign!”
And so they tasted, and the future fell
To ashes of the fruit they loved so well
In those first moments of lost innocence,
Whose sweets, alternate, were a heaven and
hell!
But down the path of ages, rose-adorned,
The Pagan gods with drunken mirth have
scorned
Sorrow for men, their pride, and recom-
pense,
Dancing while Pan has piped and God has
mourned !
N.S.W.
LOLA GORNALL.
Birth.
I faint with timid little fears all day
And press my hand upon my heart and say,
“This miracle of birth can never be, '
And I must die and set my poor soul free.”
And then you come with those brave, holy
eyes,
Full of the worshipping that makes me wise,
And I forget my fears, remembering
Birth is a song of yours that I must sing.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
Sailorman.
Sailorman, sailorman,
With your great brown arm and your big
thick wrist
And the bulldog neck of you,
In how many harbors have you landed and
kist,
In how many harbors blue?
Sailorman, sailorman, with the firm, fine
mouth.
And the eyes that are grey distances and
wa rm wild South !
Creak of the hawsers in the sweet trade-
wind,
Splash of the anchor, ripple of the line,
Cocoanuts or rotting shell on white sands to
find,
Beer or rum or brandy or a pale B rench
wine;
“On the scoot” with pockets full; sick, with
money spent;
Life and Death have diced for you round a
continent.
“Bosca” up in Sydney town, “Tres bon ”
in France,
“Segyen” out in Egypt—this your verdict of
the dance!
Sailorman, sailorman,
With your swinging arms and your rope-
rough wrist
And the muscled neck of you,
In how many harbors have you quarrelled
and kist
In how many harbors blue?
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Outcast.
I found a weeping woman upon my way.
So sad she seemed, so desolate, I had died
To bring her peace. Disconsolate still she
sighed,
And turned from me. How came 't I bade
her stay,
I who seek company jubilant and gay?
Her hands were worn, her draggled skirts
could hide
No loveliness (I told myself), but pride.
Grew tender, and I would not take her nay.
I opened all my heart to her. I drew
Her into the warmth. Straightway I
stripped from her
Those sodden rags, but tenderly, with sweet
ruth.
Then on a sudden something strange and new
And exquisite leaped in my heart astir.
While first I held her close, the naked Truth.
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.


%
%
i
i
i
/
1
Js;
,P~
m
i
. A.
A ••c > >
IVj
1
lllliil
r*. ' ***
A . P
F. As
' 4>* 'Se-
< => PRU-O '0
F RV«TS
i , l*ir37v
A-Of' A
I ‘A"
rTRM/sf»/. 1 , *T\
1 Pttuirs
lii
jj A°./=
DA<<=
r-ruE
liitLpwep
fruits
a c a A/d.f.a.
u£^r% o
**££&' «±r’: *
F.A. A..0-F./V
f“*
'->-r T < -e l.ttlE
Sf;l|Noß^rs
f7 P .A pFA
AC*
*<>
ORi
H «^ri
**»*
£
A.. 0
1= A.
W»^
S=TV. (UYMO
T 1 '-'£
pA
auyt >
L.ITT
./Aiigii
non
74 ft
A.O
1= r*
'A °
»7/
va.'.'si/f*
i —it/,.
7//##Jr
g» _•»//»«
111111 l
nil I
nil II
'"Hi iill III! 1111
w /
"iiiiiii
111111 l
I /// HU N' ll "“"i
1 in llllln mi miiiii
i mm n a,
« utf ii' 11 II! 1
■"i a iiiiiii"' dl iiiiilllllllllllllljiliiniiii
•.i"""i'ini mini
'HIS
•»'■ """•iiammii'i
■| (IJIJ '""lllllllll U 1111111,,..
Loading for Export.
YEARS ago, when W. B. Chaffey launched the idea of
the Sunraysed Settlements, the voice of the pessimist
croaked aloud throughout the land. To-day there is
rejoicing only. The Sunraysed Settlements produce not only
the whole of the dried fruits—the choicest of currants, sultanas,
raisins, muscatels, and that dainty confection the Little Normey
—used in Australia, but are exporting large shipments to America.
The great organising work, of Messrs. Chaffey, Lever, Johnston,
De Garis and Hopkins, general manager of the Mildura Co-op.
Fruit Co., was responsible last year for the distribution of over
12,000 tons, while this year it is anticipated that no fewer than
15,000 tons will be produced at the settlements and sold to Aus-
tralia, America and Europe, showing fine returns to the growers.
The demand for the Sunraysed Dried Fruits and the Little Normey
grows greater week by week.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 41.—N0. 2114.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 19, 1920.
Price 9ix
PROM HIS FOOLISH PAST.
CANBERRA KATE: “Hullo, dearie! You haven’t forgotten me!”
BUSY AUSTRALIA: “YOU again! And just as I want to settle down to a sensible, industrious life!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 HU. p er annum, you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid,
lo any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc-., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed, But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail , from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus : and ll’. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon Ilouse, Breams Buildings, London E.C.Jj;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Ilolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; International House,
hh Kerk Street, Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., JUil Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; the Boston Hat Works and News
Co., 109 A Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. — Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; J. Roland Kay Co., W t 9
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Liberty News
Co., Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth •
Avenue and 21th Street, New York; Schulte News
Agency, Bryant Park, Jj2ad Street and 6th Avenue,
New York City; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago; Golden Gate News Agency,
119 Market Street, Chicago; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu.- —Fisher News Agency, 163 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai, Kulamadau and
Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands. 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., ltd.; Bioz. to 10oz..
3d. ; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, I/bz., lid., and
Id. each additional 2oz.
'ffie'Zßi'xlleZz/ri.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 19, 1920.
REVOLT WITHOUT TEARS; OR THE
PURSUIT OF THE UNATTAINABLE.
At a recent Sydney Town Hall meeting of
I.W.W. sympathisers one of the speakers,
after the usual hi’falutin oratory about the
necessity of destroying the “bowelless capi-
talistic State,’’ dropped this remark: —
The workers should use their intelligence so
that when the crash came, as it must come, they
would be prepared for an orderly change instead of
chaos.
This is revolution on the lines that the world
has been looking for all through history. It
pre-supposes that our soap-box virtuosos are
constructive statesmen of unpreeeflenteu
capacity, and not mere talkers. In order
to ensure orderly change instead of chaos
when the great upheaval arrives, its authors
must possess beforehand a detailed govern-
mental programme, dealing at the very least
with (1) the preliminary general strike
period and (2) the early days of the Com-
munist era. Have Australia’s Judds and
Larkinses drafted any feasible scheme of
the sort'/ If so they have shown more fore-
sight than their predecessors in the same
line of agitation, every one of whom has
been content to set the boulder of anarchy
rolling, and chance when or where it .stopped
or whom it crushed. In any country the
first effect of a general strike is general
starvation. In Australia, owing to conges-
tion in the great cities and the dependence
of the people for their supplies on the State
railway systems, a determined transport or
even coal strike might bring about this
tragedy. The proletarian adult needs bread
and meat and the proletarian child milk to
the same extent as capitalist infants and
grown-ups do. The poor acquire typhus,
typhoid and diphtheria as quickly when the
sanitary services fail; and where they are
city or suburban poor, they are as helpless
when suddenly deprived of gas or water.
The women and children of the working
classes are as much endangered by the un-
loosing on the community of criminals
immune from police control as are the
women and children of any other class.
Unless our revolutionaries have made pre-
parations for dealing with these and a
thousand kindred problems which must fol-
low upon the great work-stoppage that is
to deal the final blow at the capitalistic
State, then the misery of all but a few privi-
leged agitators will be appalling, as has
been the case in previous revolutions.
Internationalism, like Freetrade, suffers
from a fatal disability: it disregards
the human-nature principle which pre-
vents a man from being satisfied with
five pounds a week when he can earn
ten; the simple old law which in
another of its manifestations will presently
cause Felton to try to beat Barry for the
sculling championship, and vice versa. It
conflicts with the competitive instinct. The
Japanese do not pretend to be international-
ists. A foreigner cannot even own land in
Japan; a Japanese cannot denationalise
himself. The passionately nationalist form
of patriotism which finds expression in such
laws is manifesting itself in Japanese ex-
pansion, both territorially and in commerce.
Have our revolutionaries formulated plans
to protect Australia from the present fate of
China, whose revolutions have caused it to
become the prey of its well-organised little
neighbor? If not, it is as ridiculous to ex-
pect that we shall be left unassailed as it
would be to expect a profiteer to forego
the chance of an easily-acquired fortune.
Young republics are like the Devil when
sick ; they mean well. But the world being
what it is, they are attacked as soon as it is
realised, or even suspected, that they are
weak. Soviet Russia, whose richest agricul-
tural and coal-bearing regions would recently
have been torn from it by Poland had it not
been capable of defending them, is a case
in point. So that, unless Australia is to be
afflicted with that dreadful variety of chaos
which takes the form of armed invasion, it
must continue to have a defence scheme,
more particularly a sea-defence scheme.
Judging by the attitude towards the British
Empire of our revolutionary leaders, they
will spurn the assistance of the Royal "Navy ;
and if they do the Commonwealth’s effort on
land and sea will have to be proportionately
greater. That must mean ships, guns,
munitions and aeroplanes on the grand
scale. Which implies factories and hard
work under skilled direction ; in other words,
wage-slavery under bosses, no matter who may
appoint them. In pacifist Russia, the home
of political idealism, the Internationalist
leaders have solved this problem by intro-
ducing industrial compulsion under the tech-
nical control of bourgeois experts. The
various Western menaces to the existence
of Russian nationalism have been met by
the so-called Internationalists of Russia
with naval and military conscription. Aus-
tralia’s revolutionaries may be too consist-
ent in their internationalism to intend any-
thing of the sort; they may propose merely
to sit down and live peaceably on the expro-
priated assets of Capitalism, trusting to the
martial hordes of Asia to play the brother-
hood game and leave Australia alone. If
so they should, in fairness, warn their fol-
lowers so that those with knowledge of the
way of a military people with a weak State
may express their views on the question. In
the other event they ought to indicate what
their plans are. If they have anything
like a practical scheme to make Australia
safe for democracy from the tyranny of
foreign Imperialists—no more acceptable
because they are yellow—and if they see
their way clear to do it with less taxation,
less work and less militarism and navalism
than at present, then they are likely to make
more converts to the cause in a week than
they could do by mere word-spinning in a
century.
* * * *
But have they any plans or ideas what-
ever beyond the immediate necessity of tear-
ing everything down and chancing to luck
to evolve something better from the ruins?
Probably not. In that case it is easy, by
turning up the records of previous revolu-
tions, to say what is likely to happen. The
Government of the day will begin with the
assistance of the propertied classes —an
enormous body, numerically, in Australia —
and of the soldiers, the police and a propor-
tion of conservative workers. The popular
movement is likely, in the circumstances, to
be provided with a willing struggle. In the
French Revolution and the Commune, dur-
ing the innumerable Russian revolutions,
and latterly during the German ones, the
same original conditions prevailed, broadly
speaking. The proletariat relied partly on
the strike weapon and partly on wild up-
risings and acts of incendiarism and sabot-
age generally; the constitutionalists used
their guns (in Berlin, the other day, they
were employing 5.9’s and aeroplane bombs) :
and the middle classes, and the women and
children of all classes but the richest, who
fled, were destroyed by both parties. In
course of time, by means of defections from
the militarist side, the revolutionaries pre-
vailed, chiefly because, at a time when con-
ditions had become intolerable, they were in
a position to promise more. When they
failed to deliver the goods, as inevitably they
always did fail, there were further risings,
certain sections having by now acquired the
insurgent habit. The recent Von Kapp
revolt in Germany was made possible by the
disillusion resulting from the Noske regime.
All Governments —-communistic, Jacobin,
Red, or whatever they choose to call them-
selves —become so many disillusions in so far
as none of them can abolish the need for
defence against outside aggression ; and that
connotes hard work and plenty of it, co-
operation on a vast scale and continual’vigi-
lance. In a w T ord, nationalism. The French,
being a remarkable clear-headed people, s* 1 "-
this truth in the first days of their Revolu-
tion. The Reign of Terror was really
martial law; and the nationalist fervor
expressed in “The Marseillaise’’ equals, if it
does not surpass, that of any other anthem.
The Russians being duller took several years
to learn their lesson, and in consequence
have suffered hideously. The Germans pro-
bably saw the light some time ago. but were
prevented by circumstances from benefiting
by it. It is evident from all these examples
that revolutionary countries struggle through
blood and tears to a state of affairs which is
not vastly different from the old conditions.
Why should Australia shed one tear, or
a drop of blood? No one here is the serf of
any man, though practically all of us have
to submit to the inescapable tyranny of work
in some shape or form. Almost every high
office in the Commonwealth is held either by
a working-man or the son of a working-man.
An umbrella-mender is the Prime Minister
and his Treasurer was a coal-miner; the
Premier of the most populous State is a
boilermaker, and of the least populous a
blacksmith. If the sovereign people decided
to-morrow that it would be good business to
expropriate those who have made great for-
tunes, the thing could be done on constitu-
tional lines by taxation. The only objections
are that dishonesty is bad policy in State
as in social affairs, and that confiscation
once begun is hard to stop. Assuming the
proletariat wished to institute a brotherhood-
of-man regime instead of merely talking
about it, there is nothing to stop them. Is
it desired to do away with the local army
and navy in the cause of pacifism? The
change can be achieved by a refusal of sup-
plies on the part of the people’s representa-
tives in Parliament. The same authorities
can repudiate our debts, external and internal
as effectively as any revolutionary Govern-
ment could do it. There is not a single
reform, mot a single insanity, which a
Soviet Government may attempt in the
future that is beyond attainment now
assuming a majority of the electors want it’,
what is the sense, then, in undergoing the
another 10 ? ° f Y ivil war J Why butcher one
holiday ? make a professiona l blitherer’s
THE 576,921 STARVING CHILDREN
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
James Edmond goes looking for them •
Rivard Arthur, M.L.A., denies that the N S
Wales child-pension scheme is unworkable, and says
it can and will come. Probably it will, like many
bad things and a few good ones. I quite agree
with him that “no community can afford to have
thousands of its children growing up stunted in
body and mind because they are fed on a diet com-
posed mostly of bread, treacle and tea.” But when
#qn S nn a nno ° f Pajdng ’ t 0 aVert this calamity,
±.3,000,000 a year in pensions of 6s. each for every
child after No. 2 in the family and aged under
, See^ that . there are su PP os ed to be at least
--W 6,921 children in that ghastly condition in N S
Wales. The scheme (±3,000,000 divided into lots
of ±l5 12s. each) provides for 192,307 bread-and-
tea-fed children, each with two elder and non-
pensioned and doubtless also bread-and-tea-fed
brothers or sisters, and that makes 576,921 in all.
Of course, where there are, say, four children in
a family, the existence of two pensioners won’t prove
that there are six bread-and-tea-fed children in
existence—only four. But set against this the
vast numbqr of bread-and-tea-fed children who won’t
be brought into evidence at all through being only
one or two in family, I think that in taking the
average orthodox family of three I strike a fair
or plausible average.
I can only say that it is a most horrible thing to
have 576,921 practically starving children among
a mere 2,000,000 people, and the politicians who
have allowed a great, rich State to get into that
condition should be hanged without the option.
I allude, of course, to long-standing and well-known
politicians; the new ones are hardly responsible.
And I include private members because even if
they couldn’t do much, being private, they . could
at least have shown what should be done, and
shown it, not in vague diatribes or casual outbreaks
of philosophic philanthropy, but in detail. We
know N. S. Wales is a great, rich State of wonder-
ful natural resources, because the politicians say
so. And if it isn’t, then the policy (in which Dr.
Arthur apparently concurs, for he supported the
Government which followed it) of borrowing im-
mense sums (something like seven millions in one
year) on the security of its riches is such a loath-
some swindle, not only on the public creditor, but
on the children who are to come, that the said
politicians should be cut down before life is extinct
and hanged over again. The fact that the State is
rich, and yet that the condition of its children is
an unparalleled horror, most of them being starving
twice oyer or in duplicate, makes me boil with
indignation at these same politicians—and also boil
with contempt. I regard them as akin to Naaman
before his wash, only worse.
* * * #
I have ideas of my own about the causes of the
boundless accumulation of wretchedness which seems
to be festering around us like the slime-pits of
Sodom or the accumulated carrion of some other
pest-slain city. One cause, I think, is the com-
pression of the people into a few capital cities,
which is practised in Australia as in no other coun-
tiy of which I have a record. Big cities seem
to be always places of sorrow. Of course, people
must live largely in towns. A civilised country
which is reasonably self-supporting requires at least
three times as much town as rural population. But
they shouldn’t be almost entirely in one town ; they
should be scattered over dozens. The whole lay-
out of the N.S.W. railways and the whole fake and
swindle of the N.S.W. railway rates aims at bring-
ing all possible things to Sydney. So we have the
amazing spectacle of some counties in by far the
most fertile part of the State (the North), with
good soil, abundant rainfall but hardly any roads,
and with the port only 50 or 60 miles away, cut
off by lack of communication. And these places
have about % or f of an inhabitant per square
mile. There are a vast number of towns and coun-
ties which are dying. In the course of a long and
ill-spent life, 1 have written hundreds of articles
on this subject, but the amount of practical enthu-
siasm the matter aroused in Richard Arthur,
M.L.A., and others appeared negligible.
Another cause of the trouble is that an incred-
ible proportion of fathers have no trade and are
mere odd-jobbers, and the value produced by an
odd-jobber is small. For this I seem to descry
these reasons among others:—
(T) The insane loan policy. Loan works employ
unskilled labor mostly, and so they create unskilled
labor. During the last 10 years N.S.W. has spent
over ±60,000,000 of loan money all charged bru-
tally and callously and shamelessly against the
bread-and-tea-fed children who are to come, and
mostly invested by scoundrels in non-paying or
poorly-paying assets, so that the bread-and-tea-fed
children will have to make good the loss. And
with this money it has created a shiftless odd-
job generation which is now coming home to roost
This is another subject on which I have written
much. In fact, I once tried to organise a C.O.D.
(Cash on Delivery) party at a N.S.W. election"
but of the various candidates who signed the anti-
orrowing pledge and accepted great masses of cam-
paign literature at my expense, not one stuck to
his guns, and not one apparently cared a damn
(I mean a dash) about the children if by consider-
ing them he might risk the votes of the fathers.
ey were liars all or apostates or something, and
in my view not fit to carry offal to a bear.
(2) The craze, on which politicians post much
a \ertisement, and which they make an excuse for
many loans, for “settling the people on the land”—
provided the land is in one of those regions which
belong geographically to Sydney so that the people
won t clamor for secession or access to some rival
port. These settlers, sent out with their children
by sordid politicians who are blind and deaf to
human woe—sent to dry spots which have nothing
but their connection with Sydney to recommend
them help after their failure to recruit the odd-
job class which has to feed its offspring on bread,
treacle and tea. The drought-settlement iniquity
has been an old subject of mine and rather a lone-,
some one. I had little company on the road. The
o ject of it is presumably to beguile young men
from skilled, well-paid, drought-proof manufacturing
industries lest they should produce things that would
compete against the importer. I don’t know how
much the aggregate importer dispenses in bribes
among the land-settlement class of politicians. Pos-
sibly the aggregate city landlords also do some
bribery. They would naturally hate to see direct
railways carried from the inlands to other ports,
tor jf new Sydneys sprang up there it is inevitable
that someone would suggest that the State should
be and remain sole ground landlord. The precedent
of State leasehold cities would be dreadful.
course there is a feeling of kindliness about
the idea of pensioning 192,307 children—the Number
Threes among a dreadful 570,921, all young, and
all more or less starving on bread, treacle and tea
among a mere 2,000,000 people in a rich and largely
unpopulated land. Also there is advertisement. Also
there is the lavish feeling which comes of dashing
around other people’s money. Also there is the
pomp of the almoner, and that is a thing that
passes the pomp of beadles. But surely it isn’t pro-
posed that the causes of this gigantic pauperism
are to continue, either from love of inflicting pain or
because politicians are so completely and utterly the
mental dregs and offscourings of humanity that they
can t get some idea of the causes. For relief given
because of poverty—the bread, treacle and weak-tea
kind which stunts body and soul—means pauperism,
f the British Islands did things on this scale its
yearly bill would be over £60,000,000, and this is
for child relief alone and quite apart from old-age,
invalid and war pensions, baby bonuses and gifts to
prospective mothers. What kind of a State have the
old politicians made of N. S. Whales if nobody, or
hardly anybody, can support three children, but
must put the third one “on the rates” ? If the
pauper child habitually grows up to be “healthier
and happier” (I quote Richard Arthur, M.L.A.)
than the other sort, of course there is nothing to
be said. But does he?
And apparently there is no possible provision to
prevent the old man spending the money on beer,
strikes, and, above all, horse. The 6s. will be paid
to the mother, and in many cases the old man will
give her 6s. less, and thus make things square. Even
if he doesn’t there is no evidence as to what the old
the 6s - »is impossible to keep
192,307 children under constant inspection; in fact
no one seems to propose any inspection. I under-
stand from Richard Arthur, M.L.A., that “if only
25 per cent, of the money invested at present in
beer, bets, petrol for joy-riding and crepe de Chine
tor jazzing” were applied to feed the children they
would be well fed. The parents of 576,921 children
are such a stupendous class that I think they must
be responsible for 25 per cent, of the beer and bets
and crepe de Chine, though some of them are doubt-
less total abstainers from all three (I leave out the
petrol as a doubtful quantity). If parents, as a
class, waste £12,000,000 a year on beer and bets
and petrol (apart from that used for plain industry)
and on one kind of flash raiment (for jazzing only—
b°Ught f ° r other Purposes), while
076 921 children are ill-fed. and stunted, I don’t
think parents as a class can be trusted with 6s. a
week indiscriminately.
* *
At the risk of repetition, I say that the pension
system should at least be accompanied by a stringent
inquiry into the cause of this bloated and stupendous
horror, compared with which Dante’s “Inferno”
takes a back pew. If it is simply proposed to leave
things as they are, and say that we are in the worst
situation on earth because we are the worst fools
and loafers on earth and intend to remain so-
well, the money may run short some day, and by
that time N. S. Wales may have 4,000,000 peopl?
and 1,153 842 starving children. The prospect is
so dreadful that I think the whole State had better
commit suicide on a day to be fixed by proclamation
—of course, killing all its politicians first.
I trust I have not misunderstood the figures
of R Arthur, M.L.A. If I have I take it all back.
But his proposal to put up the combined State and
Federal income-tax to the British level convinces
me that it is no dream. At present income-taxes
in Australia average about £3 per head per
annum, with ss. for war profits. In Britain income-
tax is about £8 and war-profits • tax nearly £7
bo apparently it is proposed to raise £lO,OOO 000
a year lfl N. S. Wales alone for pauperisation’ or
about £23,000,000 if war-profits tax-is equalised
nrJrt if ln f m r taX - Britain > b - v the way, spends
P actically all its income-tax receipts now in re-
ducing its debt, so that the children may have an
easier time. That is different from the idea of
m ° T \ and " 10re debt 0n the children and
tbl rf n V u UmS in char itable relief so that
those fathers who are addicted, as alleged, to “beer
extra b rac 6 f® like may be able to take an
id* w off P ®‘' Week ’ 1 su PPose the ulti-
mate idea is to pension everybody— except perhaps
the Fairfaxes and the Clarkes, who might totter
along without charity—and to be paupers all round.
The loan policy which has rotted away this country’s
elf-respect and self-reliance till it has hardlv a
result already" h “ d achieved ibat
THE INTERMEDIATE HOSPITAL.
It was stated recently (B. 22/7/’2O) that
there had been a great increase in the num-
ber of well-to-do people availing themselves
of the privileges of charitable institutions
in various parts of Australia and Maori-
iand, and that, in the Dominion, steps were
being taken to limit this exploitation bv
awakening the public conscience to a proper
sense of its duty in providing its medical
attendants with the wherewithal to live
The Government of Victoria appears to be
also alive to this increased tendency of the
eomfortably-off to accept gratuitous medical
and nursing services, and in its new Bill has
suggested a remedy; but apparently Mr.
McPherson, the Minister in charge, lias the'
very vaguest idea of what the remedy is. At
any rate, the Melbourne dailies report the


Treasurer as saying that "at St. Chad s, in
Birmingham, they had two wards in an in-
termediate hospital, where medical men could
send all their cases,” and that the Council
of the Vic. B.M.A. “saw no objection to a
scheme similar to that adopted at St. Chad’s,
provided the institutions were run by the
medical officers.”
Now. St. Chad’s is not composed of
two wards, and medical men cannot send
all their cases there. St. Chad’s is, as a
matter of fact, a big affair, started, a month
after war was declared, by a band of Bir-
mingham consultants who thought the time
was ripe for the introduction of a practical
scheme to aid those who did not want to go
into a charitable institution, but who still
could not afford a huge operation fee, in addi-
tion to the heavy nursing charges of an
ordinary private hospital. Structurally, it
consists of 60 small private rooms, with
four wards of six beds each, besides two
large open-air balconies, and it can accom-
modate 100 patients. The shareholders,
who are expected to be content with 6 per
cent., consist mostly of large business firms
of the city; they elect the chairman and two
other directors, while the medical committee
elects the remaining two and sticks to the
professional side of the undertaking. The staff
consists of 23 consultants, who all belong to
the voluntary hospitals of Birmingham ; they
work together in the interests of the 4 patients,
and call each other into consultation over
difficult cases without any further charge to
the patient. The executive head is a house-
governor, who collects all the fees, and hands
their share to the various surgeons and other
practitioners every month. There are a resi-
dent doctor, a matron, an assistant-matron,
six nursing sisters and 19 probationers. They
have two classes of patients—those who are
willing to pay the full charges of doctors
and nurses, and those belonging to what is
termed the “composite class” (90 per cent,
of the whole), who pay an inclusive fee
according to their means. A patient may
pay £2l for the operation of appendicectomy ;
for this he will get surgical and nursing
treatment for four weeks; there will be no
extras oven for bandages, zinc ointments,
etc. If he is an obscure gastric or lung case
he may pay £3O for everything—bacterio-
logical examinations, blood tests, X-ray
examinations, and four weeks’ board and
nursing. If an operation is necessary the
patient still pays no more. lie thus knows
exactly where lie stands.
The Vic. Treasurer has an earnest desire
to protect the public purse from the inroads
of the conscienceless well-to-do, ahd he indi-
cated that if Private Enterprise does not
hurry up and enter the field in the direction
of intermediate hospitals, the Government
in its own interests must step in. Melbourne
surgeons are thus offered more than an
opportunity to commence the good work. It
is really an appeal- to them to save the State
from a serious financial drain.
And it is a good work. The crushing
prices now charged by private hospitals are
driving those who are able to pay a moder-
ate sum to doctor and nurse into the wards
of the voluntary hospitals, where they
shamelessly occupy the beds which are in-
tended to be used by the poor and needy.
Intermediate hospitals, by softening the
blow, are designed to reach these people.
And there are others who deserve considera-
tion the sensitive sufferers, for instance,,
who will almost beggar themselves in order
to escape the public hospital. But these are
few and far between; most patients have
no scruple about, getting advice and nursing
for nothing. On the other hand, there are
nursing homes which are as voracious as
these patients are mean. I know a Vic.
private hospital which, without inquiring
into the patient’s circumstances, charged her
10 guineas per week for the first two weeks
—she was a gastric-operation case—and in
addition -she had to face a surgeon's bill
of 50 guineas and find £2O for the
general practitioner. Again, a doctor-
friend who, like a good many more, had
never charged a nurse in his life, had to pay
a home £l9-odd for two weeks’ board and
nursing after'a simple appendix operation
on his boy. He is now endeavoring to get
some of his own back by charging nurses full
fees. .
Intermediate hospitals, assuming them to
be well conducted, will be a remedy for ex-
tortionate fees both of doctors and of nurses.
They are just what the public is looking for.
V hen an operation is necessary the patient
will know the worst from the start; he will
not have to spend sleepless nights in figuring
out the ever-mounting bill. The surgeon
or physician will be better off in the long
run owing to the increase of paying business
which the lowering of fees will bring. Per-
haps even the mean patient will in time
see the justice of contributing something to
the support,of the man on whom he rests
when sick or in danger of his life.
. Sir E. Napier Burnett, a Red Cross
director of hospital services in England, re-
marked in a recent British Medical
Journal that “a number of provincial, hos-
pitals now provide private wards for" the
treatment of paying patients, more particu-
larly the small or cottage-hospital group.
Comparatively few of the largest type of
hospital haye adopted this idea; but many
admit that they are now considering the
advisability of doing so.” So the Victorian
Government’s proposals, though rather
hazily put forward, are not only up to date,
but also accord with medical thought in
Britain.
MACQUARIE STREET.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Trade Unions and Returned Soldiers.
About the middle of the war, when a pro-
Hun element became conspicuous in the
Labor ranks, the more serious leaders used
to point to the vast number of unionists who
had enlisted as evidence for the defence.
And the number certainly was very large.
But the fact is evident that many unionists
and the many official union parasites who re-
mained behind to run the movement had no
love for their brethren at the Front. If
Australia had enjoyed the blessing of com-
pulsory service, good and bad Australians
would have been killed indiscriminately. As
it was, many patriotic men were killed, and
those who returned, mainy of them maimed.
found that in their absence a certain scum
element, sound in wind and limb, but not
in soul, had to a great extent captured the
machine and prepared a line propaganda
of hatred and opposition for the ex-soldiers.
The effort to shut some of them out of their
old wharf-lumping jobs was characteristic.
The effort to shut them out of the boiler-
making and bricklaying trades is still more
so. Many soldiers passed the best part of
their apprenticeship days defending Aus-
tralia, and so have to start or resume their
trades, rather late in life. They are not new
intruders, but old inhabitants. Being too
old to be ordinary apprentices, a small
number began to learn trades at Sydney
Technical College, but their reception is cold.
The Boilermakers’ Union refuses to work
with any of them when they have qualified,
and the Bricklayers’ Union offers, grudg-
ingly, to admit 100 and no more. The vast
bulk of the returned men are welcome to
become loafers, racecourse hangers-on or
criminals, or they may go on the land (if
they can get there) without knowledge and
with a £2OOO loan-money mortgage, but
otherwise the Popes of Labor put them out-
side the pale. It is not, of course, that
there isn’t room for them; a thousand new
bricklayers could find employment in the
Ma State, besides carpenters and stone-
masons in large numbers. There is even
room for more than that number of brick-
makers alone. Between 1913 and 1918 the
number of brickmakers in N. S. Wales
diminished by 1068 (3665 to 2597), and the
year’s output fell by 171,430,000 bricks.
Builders were short, partly through the
strict limitation of the number of appren-
tices. which prevents any trade from .grow-
ing appreciably, however population may
grow, and partly from other causes, and
building materials being also short the great
house famine started. It becomes worse
from month to month. Houses grow older
and less sanitary, like those condemned and
hideously overcrowded shacks at Ultimo
(Sydney) over which philanthropists wept
so many crocodile tears without venturing
to mention the real originators of the trouble,
but the worst hovels have to be preserved
for lack of new places for the people to go
to. The habit of three families in a small
house, and a whole family in a small room,
and five people in a bed increases. And the
male inhabitants of these dreadful places
are mostly men and boys who are without
defined trades, and so are of no value in
relieving the. famine. Overcrowding will
soon ranlj in Australian cities (if it doesn’t
rank already) close after venereal disease and
before alcohol and horse-racing as a national
calamity. It is an artificial creation of
recent growth. The policy of the present
school of union leaders is to increase and
foster and encourage it and make it their pet
monstrosity. Their theory is that, when a
few men are in a trade which professes to
supply a public need, they can band them-
selves together to prevent other men entering
it. If the men inside supply only half the
public need, or stop work and don’t supply
it at all. their monopoly of the trade still
holds good. In fact, they are a privileged
aristocracy of an aggravated kind. Some
day a genius may make history by organising
a trades union of wheat-growers—new wheat-
growers to be admitted only with the union’s
consent; non-union wheat to be “black” , im-
ported wheat to be barred as being equiva-
lent to imported labor; the union to have the
principal say in fixing prices, and the public
to put. up with occasional wheat shortage just
as it does with house or coal shortage. The
men who will suffer most, of course, will be
the very ones who are now seeking to estab-
lish the rule that such control is a fair thins-.
They obviously don’t realise what a two-edged
tool it is they are playing with.
The Campaign on the Home Front.
There was no sectarianism in the trenches,
but when the Diggers came back they found
it raging furiously on the home front. It
wasn’t particularly noticeable in the smaller
States, but Victoria had it bad, and N. S.
Wales worse, and when the dear old Mother
State gets one of its periodical attacks of
religious bigotry there is nothing more ridi-
culous in life. The case of Father Jerger
exhibited one brand of sectarianism —the
Wren brand. Wren tried to assert the prin-
ciple that a priest of Wren’s church,
although a foreigner and an internee, could
do no wrong; and he found a number of
Labor politicians and union secretaries will-
ing to help him. At the other extreme are
the “Liberal” Macarthur-Onslow, M.L.A.,
who taunts his adversaries _ with being
“Papists,” and when that term is objected
to substitutes the words “Irish Roman
Catholics”; and the Rev. John Enright,
who talks darkly of “plunging his dagger
into the heart of Rome.” The prominence
accorded to the Rev. Enright indicates the
intensity of sectarian feeling in Sydney, or
at least the state of mind prevailing among
its daily papers. In Westralia, where the
gentleman lived for years, he didn’t cause a
ripple on the stream of events. He was known
merely as a harmless old chap who told
rather good Irish stories. No one ever
molested him or twitted him with his
change of faith (he had been a Roman
Catholic priest), or hindered him from earn-
ing a living, or dragged him out of the decent
obscurity of mothers’ meetings and bands of
hope. But in process of time he passed to
N. S. Wales, and publicity forthwith
descended upon him in a fierce white light.
He announced himself as a brand snatched
from the burning, and was joyfully hailed as
a successor to the late Dill Macky. He
formed the habit of rocking it into Rome
whenever a reporter surged up with a note-
book, and he intimated that he had it in his
power to become a more destructive enemy
of Rome than even Martin Luther “or any
of the other Reformers”—but he never says
what restrains him. According to one of the
fool-papers which advertise these foolish
persons, and thus help to set in motion
dangerous forces which they cannot con-
trol, he declared recently that he quitted
the Roman Catholic Church because
Mannix had been sent to Australia,
although, by his own showing in the same
speech, he must have changed his religion
before 1908 and Mannix didn’t come until
1912. The case of the Rev. Enright pro-
vides an interesting study in sectarian psy-
chology. It shows that in the making of
mischievous fanatics environment is nearly
everything. In the West Mr. Enright is
perfectly innocuous and nobody takes any
notice of him ; but transplanted in a favor-
able season to the congenial soil of Sydney
he becomes a formidable Protestant cham-
pion and crowds hang upon his words.
«Mid as with the clerical jester turned
sectarian bigot, so with his protegee,
the escaped nun. She too is a pro-
duct of environment, an accident, as far
as publicity goes, of time and place. In
other parts of Australia it is no rare thing
for a member of a religious sisterhood, Angli-
can as well as Catholic, to leave the order,
finding that she has mistaken her vocation.
Nobody stops her (nobody can stop her),
and except in Victoria and N. S. Wales the
incident is hardly ever considered worth
even a three-line paragraph. But in dear
old fuzzy-headed N. S. Wales the escaped
nun is as important as a war-scare. She
monopolises the newspaper-posters and
shoves the Parliamentary reports off the
cable-page. Judging by the space lavished
on her she is of greater moment to a dis-
tracted Commonwealth than the Russian
situation, Sinn Fein, the tariff, John
Storey, the wheat poob the shearers’ strike
and the Peace Loan combined. Every
detail of the escape is recorded with stark
fidelity, and every person who had a hand
in it is permitted to talk flamboyantly to
his fellow-citizens —and at his theological
adversaries —although paper is £lOO a ton.
It is all miserably vulgar and spiteful and
paltry and parish-minded, but it has its
effect on a certain order of mind. Thus
far the sectarian-mongers have failed to
unsolder the fine fellowship of the trenches,
but in this, as in other respects, they are
doing their worst. They will never be satis-
fied until they see Australia divided by the
insurmountable barrier of religious rancor
into two camps. Yet without newspaper
publicity they would be nothing. The news-
papers gave Man nix his vogue, and when
Worrall descants on what he and other
Methodist ministers have done to mould poli-
tical thought, the statement is .recorded.
There are times when a pressman would do
his country a service by being deaf and
blind. A vase reticence during the war-
period on matters of religion and politics
would have spared Australia a world of
trouble. But instead of leaving the poli-
tical priest and presbyter to mumble in
obscurity, the press sought them out and
lifted them into the limelight; and now it
i$ aiding and abetting bigotry in its dirty
work.
• ♦
House Shortage.
A really orthodox Labor Government of
modern type may do anything under the
sun to relieve the scarcity of anything under
the broad canopy of Heaven except urge its
supporters to labor more and produce more.
For though a Labor Government talks much
of Labor, plain labor is a matter that
it must not mention. In Sydney as in other
places the scarcity of houses, already a most
serious thing, is becoming more serious still.
When there is a shortage in any line the
usual plan is to make more of it—by work-
ing harder or working longer hours or, best
of all, putting more men on the job. To
work harder, however, is contrary to the
gospel of Go-Slow; instead of working
more hours the intense demand is for fewer
hours and a whole clear Saturday for going
to the great natural racecourses of the
country; and as for putting more men on
the job—it was a quite ordinary sign of the
times that a union recently asked the Court
that only one learner should be allowed to-
three allegedly cc*npetent workers, so that
on one-man or two-men jobs there would be
no learner and on four- or five-men jobs
only one. All the pet calculations about the
living wage, child pensions and so on
start with the orthodox average family of
three children —eighteen children (nine sons
and nine daughters) to six fathers and pos-
sible fathers. And the proposed two learners
to six workmen would apparently mean that
two of the sons would learn the old man’s
trade or some other old man’s trade while
the other seven sold newspapers. There
seems quite a lot of room to revise this mon-
strous policy of making a famine in houses
and other things by making a famine in arti-
sans, but the Storey Government dare not
'engage in the revision. Instead, some of its
Ministers have struck the quaint idea of
making existing tenants a privileged class by
law, enjoying a sort of entail. They are not
to be ejectable, so it is proposed, as long as
they pay their rent—which will be fixed at
a low rate by the Court, with all liability
for damages, repairs, taxes, etc., on the land-
lord —and they may be hard to shift, even
though they* fail to pay. And even if the
owner wants to live in his own house him-
self the inmate won’t, according to present
intentions, be removable unless the owner
finds him another house to his satisfaction.
While barrowloads of marketable bonds,
issued by frantic Governments like Storey’s,
can be bought at a rate that yields nearly
7 per cent., and there are tax-exemptions
thrown in, and no rates, repairs, fire insur-
ance, bad debts, Fair Rents Courts, or
uncivil tenants to be struggled with, nobody
is in the least likely to build houses for let-
ting if such a law passes. So, though
Storey’s scheme may give temporary relief
to the person just now in a house, it is cal-
culated to make things hundreds of times
worse for the person who wants one. There
is, however, talk of forcing the Savings
Bank, which now lends up to the high figure
of 75 per cent, on present house-values, to
lend up to 90 or 95 per cent, and thus give
building an artificial stimulus and help every
man to possess his own shanty. But even
an advance of 150 per cent, wouldn’t do
much if more builders can’t be found. Even
a scheme for making everybody who doesn’t
vote the Labor ticket build a house for rent-
ing purposes would fail in these conditions.
The Tactics of Reaction.
Dear Bulletin,— l go further than The
Bulletin (12/8/’2O), which takes the view
that Ireland is irrelevant to Australian poli-
tics. I am a Sinn Feiner because I am an
Imperialist. It is. in every case, a matter
of opinion whether an Empire does better
to hang on to a disaffected dependency or
to let it go. In the present state of world-
politics it is becoming clear to many whose
best interests lie in the preservation of the
British - Empire that the time has arrived
to cut away some more of the lumber. Eng-
land has been doing this to advantage for
centuries. And every fime the need arose
there were asses or scoundrels with political
axes to grind who exploited the situation to
their own ends. Those who found them-
selves on the side of change—which nearly
always proved ultimately to be the side of
the angels—had usually to submit, as now,
to the charge of being traitors. The elder
Pitt had this experience when he told Eng-
land that the time had co'me to let the
American colonies go. In those days
Washington was spoken of in England as
a common malefactor. The lampooners
used language about his morals that no paper
in the world of to-day would print about De
Valeba. A few months ago the Prince
of Wales journeyed to Mount Vernon and
reverently laid a wreath on Washington’s
tomb —a tribute to one who in the hearts
of men of all races embodies the idea of
liberty. The Republicans of France and
the Monarchists of Britain have just fought
side by side in a great war. In England
a hundred years ago it was treason to ap-
prove of republicanism. “France,” said
Horace Walpole, “must be abhorred to
latest posterity.” And he called for the
arrest and deportation of “the many agents
of the Parisian monsters in ibis country
who are endeavoring to propagate their
bloody doctrines in ale-houses and among the
populace.” When Campbell Bannerman
gave the Boers their freedom the civilest
thing the Tories said about him, Lloyd
George and Winston Churchill was that
their intellects were defective. It was taken
as read that the Boers would turn on the
Empire. In 1917 General Smuts, who had
become, in the interval, “a noble ornament
and strong pillar of the Empire,” to quote
London Telegraph, said at a banquet given
in his honor by both Houses of Parliament:
I think that this is the fundamental fact which
we have to bear in mind —that the British Empire
does not stand for unity, standardisation or assimila-
tion, or denationalisation, but it stands for a fuller,
richer and more various life among all the nations
that compose it. It is only in proportion as that js
realised that you will fulfil your true mission. We
are not going to force Governments... .but we are
going to extend liberty, freedom and nationhood.
And there were no protests. It suits the
designing and it comes natural to the un-
educated in Australia to claim that the
Sinn Fein movement is a Vatican affair, the
justification being that certain clerics who
are Irishmen first and Churchmen after-
wards support Sinn Fein. But Rome was
not behind the Irish Protestants who fought
England in 1798; nor did it favor the U.S.
in the War of Independence, nor the Boers
20 years ago. Rome never has been a par-
ticular friend of human freedom, and the
only Papal rescript on Home Rule ever
issued (that of Leo XIII.) was hostile
to the movement. There is grim humor in
the reflection that the identical things' which
are ffow being' said by our opponents of
change about the “Sinn Fein Papists” were
said by the Church of England dignitaries
about the early Protestants. Elizabethan
England was not Protestant as we under-
stand it. Subscription to the Thirty-nine
Articles was not enforced till 1571. The
Church was “steeped in Romish practices”
and the men who did most to free it from
them—the original Nonconformists—suffered
horribly at the hands of those with an in-
stinctive dread of change. Greenwood
and Barrow, two of the earliest Congrega-
tionalists, were executed at Tyburn in 1593
for opposing Popish practices—“the ordin-
ances of Anti-Christ,” as they called
them.” The Millennary Petition, which was
presented to James I. by 800 Nonconformist
ministers, demanded chiefly “the suppression
of Popish doctrines” and the introduction of
“a Presbyterian system of Church govern-
ment.” James denounced the petitioners
as “treasonous arguers”; and in the reign of
Charles 1., who was really an Arminian, it
became very definite traitorism to talk
Puritanism. What it all amounts to is,
simply, that reactionaries always try to
cloud the issue by accusing the pioneers of
reform of being hostile to- the State or the
Crown, or both. Yet behind their loud
words it is they themselves, with their mule-
like reluctance to move with the times, who
are the real dangers. It has been so in
Britain for centuries, and it is so in Aus-
tralia to-day.—Yours, etc., Gunner,
All Roads Lead to Rabbitburgh.
A heading begins to appear in the papers,
“Shortage of Woollens”—not merely the
high price of woollen goods, but the fact
that they are scarce at any price. The fac-
tories of France and Belgium were looted
by the Huns, and most of those in Poland
and Russia have gone to smash in various
ways. Restoration is slow and the suit
that was bought in 1914 can’t hold together
much longer. Australia grows wool for
a good part of the world, but it only manu-
factures enough to keep itself clothed for
one month in the 12, and a nation can’t
go nude for eleven months without drawing
attention. The causes of Australia’s inabil-
ity to clothe itself beyond Jan. 31 in any year
include (1) want of factories; 12) want of
skilled men to build factories arid make the
building material; (3) want of machinery :
(4) want of the skilled men to make tiie
machinery; (5) want of.skilled operatives to
work the machinery. Men who are capable of
doing the digging work on the loan railway to
Rabbitburgh seem to be in tens of thousands
(in fact, so much is heard about them that
they might, be in millions), but that doesn’t
exactly meet the case. A dark suspicion
arose lately that the handful of woollen-
mills here were profiteering on the strength
of the scarcity, and w r ere making undue
dividends, though they sold their output at
about half the importers’ price. With
enough mills to supply all Australia and
eave a surplus for export, competition might
have eliminated the importer (who controls
the sales for many of the present mills), and
reduced both prices and profits; but for the
reasons stated there are not enough mills.
Nor are there likely to be while Commis-
sions and Governments fall heavily on any
that manage to be successful. Finding that
id per cent, in a good year and nothing or


n
-w
■ V
we
T aubmaiis
Floor Varnish
Stains
effects on varnished floors add greatly to the beauty of your rooms.
Taubman s Floor Stains are made in five art shades., they will tone with the rest
or your furnishings. Easy to apply, by reason of their easy-spreading consistency;
economical because of extra covering power and a hard, enduring finish which will
withstand constant wear. Obtainable at all paint and hardware stores, or wholesale
from branch offices and agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand.
TAUBMANS LTD., )
Superfine Varnish SXCanufacturers
232 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
492 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, Vic.
QTd Agent: C. W. RILEY, 179 Mary St., Brisbane
South Aust. Agent: L. G. ABBOTT &_ CO.,
Chesser Street, Adelaide.
W. Australia: BROWN &. DUREAU, Perth.
Tasmanian Agent: CHAS. DAVIS, Hobart.
N.Z. Agents: WILSON & SHAW,
Harris Street, Wellington.
fs
ruin in a bad one was likely to be fixed as a
lair thing, the shareholders of a Ballarat mill
recently abandoned the idea of enlargement;
including tax exemptions they could get 7 per
cent, in Government securities, with no
worry and no bad years. On the other
hand, a Commissioner can’t dictate the divi-
dends of the importers, for so many of them
have their headquarters in England out of
his reach ; and, besides, they deal in .so many
things and are in so many places. Australia
does a fair amount in making “tops”—that
is, in putting the wool through a preliminary
process which doesn’t require much more
skill than digging on a loan railway; but
for want of factories it exports most of the
tops. Japan takes more than three-quarters
of them and supplies the skilled labor, so
White Australia wears a good deal of
brown clothing and pays high brown prices
for it. It takes about 71b.. of wool and a
few buttons and sundries to make an
ordinary suit, saleable at £lO, and anyone
who considers the difference between the
cost of 71b. of wool with half a pint of but-
tons and sundries may guess how much Aus-
tralia is losing on the game. He will
likewise understand the reason of the awful
cost of the railway to Rabbitburgh, for the
builders had to be paid enough to enable
them to buy the suit and other equally ex-
pensive imported articles. Also the reason
why the railway (quite a short one) lost
£63,749 last year was that it was built, not
because it was wanted, but because men who
must have suits but never learned to make
machinery or factories or cloth need to
live somehow. Incidentally, the line to
Rabbitburgh was built with the money that
Australian manufacturers were thinking of
putting into more woollen industries but
didn’t. In Europe all roads lead to Rome,
but in Australia they all lead to Rabbit-
burgh.
♦
Tasmania’s Tanglefoot Politics.
Pullen, of the Tasmanian Assembly, has
given notice of motion in favor of a referen-
dum on Prohibition, and Cold Tea is polish-
ing up its spout before starting a publicity
campaign in support of the motion. The
anti-Bungs are not without hope of securing
their referendum on the present occasion,
as a notice by Labor-man Watkins for a
referendum on the abolition of the Upper
House seems to indicate that the Labor
party has abandoned its former and demo-
cratically incomprehensible determination to
support no sectional referendums until a
general initiative and referendum law has
been enacted. For years the Laborites have
resisted all proposals for a liquor referen-
dum in the alleged hope of dragooning Gold
Tea into supporting a law which would per-
mit the reference of any question whatever
to the people. This policy, while it certainly
secured the approval and support of Bung
(who naturally doesn’t want to undertake
an expensive and anxious liquor-referendum
campaign), just as certainly raised the sus-
picions and damped the enthusiasm of those
working-class electors who prefer their
Labor politics unsophisticated by beer, cham-
pagne or holy water. Possibly Watkins’s
proposal to referend the Upper House repre-
sents Tasmanian Labor’s oblique manner of
inviting the anti-Bung party’s attention to
the fact that Labor is willing to make terms.
The success of Pullen’s motion in the
Assembly depends absolutely on Labor mem-
bers’ votes, and the price, of those votes
may be presumed to be the Prohibitionists’
support of Watkins’s proposed referen-
dum on Upper House abolition. If the
temperance men stand all tests, and nothing
occurs to upset the little arrangement, both
proposals for a referendum will be carried.
In which event the Liquor Trade will pro-
bably enter into a life-or-death alliance with
supporters of the House of Landlords in an
endeavor to assure a majority for the Noes
on both counts. Referendum Lay appeals
to the working-man to arise in defence of
Beer and Bicameralism may look and
sound a bit queer, but the implied combina-
tion on analysis would probably prove to
be no whit more absurd than some others
which vote-huckstering party-leaders have
recently bidden the Australian worker to
unreservedly accept as “political necessi-
ties.”
Wanted, Votes for Women in Australia.
There is nothing more pathetic than the
position of the housewife and house-mother
in a long, disastrous strike. Her wages are
stopped as well as her husband’s, yet she
hasn’t the rest that he enjoys. Instead, she
works double for no pay—works at making
things that would otherwise be bought, at
patching things that otherwise would be
thrown away, at darning, contriving, invent-
ing and starving. She has none of the excite-
ment of the fuss, and none of the satisfaction
of knowing that she is a free agent and that
it is her own fuss. Circumstances over
which she has 210 more control than if she
were Aunt Ciiloe on an Uncle Tom planta-
tion of the Kentucky slave clays make her
a serf without even the reliable food and
clothes and housing that go with serfdom.
Generally her garments —f\s many of them as
can be spared with a shred of decency—go
to pawn first. The housefather must have
clothes to resume work and attend strike
meetings in, while Disfranchised Australian
Woman can stay indoors with the depressed’
children for company. Very often she hasn’t
even the satisfaction of nagging at her hus-
band (should she want to nag) for his share
in bringing about the trouble for she knows
that he has had no real share at all —that
the matter has been settled for him by beard-
less unmarried and irresponsible 'youths,
some of whom have parents to help them,
and possibly a facility for picking up scraps
of livelihood in sporting ways to fall back
on. By a weird and wonderful system,
equivalent to plural voting in its effects, the
word of one of these bachelors who will
hardly suffer at all is equivalent to that of
ten much more deeply interested persons—
man, wife and eight children—who will
suffer most damnably. His isn’t a
special vote for knowledge or experi-
ence, for wealth or assets, but for inexperi-
ence and want of wealth—want of a home to
keep up and human belongings to maintain.
In fact, the number of other people’s
mothers, wives and children that a few
beardless lads, to whom the world is still a
joke, can sentence to utter misery over a
trifle or less than a trifle is mai'vellous.
Notorious political philanthropists like Dr.
Arthur of Sydney and Dr. Maloney of
Melbourne might do worse than throw their
souls into this question of Female Franchise
ENVY.
—the giving of women a vote which is often
more important to them than all the rest of
their political influence multiplied by ten.
Neither the Labor party nor any other party
could seriously demand that the unionist’s
wife shall remain the mere chattel that she
is in a. matter which so urgently concerns
her and her children.
The School Syllabus anti Old Boots.
The verdict of a country teacher
For the past three months thehlominies in N. S.
Wales have been holding solemn and prosy conclaves
with the idea of improving the school syllabus. But
you cannot improve a worn-out boot. Education
has only two aspects—the utilitarian and the intel-
lectual. At present in our Government schools we
emphasise the latter. My conviction is that we
should reverse the process and make book-learning
subsidiary to practical knowledge. Develop manual
training, in short, and make it the basis of the
curriculum.
I can hear a howl of anguish from University-
trained and hidebound old headmasters ; but what are
the results of their system, expressed in terms
of human material ? A few take University degrees,
more go into banks and offices and the Public Service,
and perhaps 30 per cent, become business men and
skilled, workers. But fully 50 per cent, of the
boys who pass through bur State schools drift into
the unskilled-worker class, dependent on loan jobs
and other fruitless undertakings. How about going
after that 50 per cent, for the next few decades?
How about trying to prevent an evil that all
thoughtful Australians can perceive, instead of
encouraging it with a political policy of “bread
and the games” ?
Baby learns by the manual-training route. Manual
training is also the basis of the kinderga*ten system.
Yet the kid is torn from his hand-training as soon
as he (or she) leaves the kindergarten. Some attempt
at hand work there is, to be sure; but it is all
subsidiary to parsing adverbs and learning the mul-
tiplication table. A working knowledge of brick-
laying or weaving could never retard a future lawyer
or doctor, but it might decide the destiny of the
kind of boy who, in the present condition of things,
becomes a casual-jobber or a “tale-teller” at the
races. A syllabus based solidly on hand work would
reach the brain of the dullard through channels
hitherto neglected.
, ' ♦
The dominant party may have only half a
mandate in both the Sydney Municipal Coun-
cil and the Place of Discourse in IViacquarie-
street, but it tries to make its half-loaf go
a long way. In its municipal capacity it
made things hum twice in a month, first
with a scheme to buy for £75,000 an unde-
veloped coal lease condemned by the Coun-
cil’s own responsible adviser, and said to
be worth £5000; and, second, with a pro-
posal to spend a million or two on a new
street, paying a lucky private firm of archi-
tects 3 per cent, on the outlay while its own
officials stood by. The Parliamentary
doings included the release of the I.W.W.
prisoners on the advice of a small, imported
Judge; the promotion of an opponent to a
judgeship a day or so before Parliament
met, thereby reducing the Opposition vote
by one and making the position much more
secure; the admission that a certain promi-
nent political friend would not be prose-
cuted for profiteering, even though he was
guilty; and the shifting or transference of a
Ministerial secretary whose place was taken
by an A.W.U. official, though how the latter
climbed over the barriers provided against
outside appointments to the service while
men are available inside is a matter of lan-
guid speculation. Deficits, loans and un-
authorised bonuses to various people help
to fill up the picture. The new regime sug-'
gests the Village. Blacksmith, or it may be
the Cottar’s Saturday Night:—
Toiling, borrowing, rejoicing, onward through life
it goes.
Each morning sees some jest begun, each evening
things disclose.
+
“C.M.” analyses the stuff that some screams
are made of:—
Shakspeare knew nothing about Magna Charta.
I believe nobody knew anything about it until a
Parliamentarian—l think Sir Edward Coke—dis-
covered it in an old chest in Dover Castle in 1630 ;
and as it happened to chime in very well with the
ideas that were then gaining ground against the
King and in favor of the Parliament, he made a
great to-do about it. Whether he wrote it himself
is another matter. I would not put it past him.
Some have held very strongly that the whole thing
was a forgery to give an idea of legality to the
cause of the Parliament. At the best it is but one
of many lesser charters, brought into prominence by
the unpopularity of King John. It granted, not
liberty, but liberties —that is, privileges. When
King John agrees not to sell or deny justice to
any man, he is simply saying that he will forego
the new Royal Courts, and allow the barons to
continue serving out justice in their own way, and
make as much money out of the business as they
can. As for imagining that Magna Charta is the
foundation of our freedom, it is simply incorrect.
The idea of personal freedom arose centuries later,
about the time of the Civil Wars ; and nothing could
have been farther from the thoughts either of the
Lord’s anointed or of the Lords spiritual and tem-
poral of the thirteenth century than that the herd
should be free.
1’ bom a man who descries trouble :
A cry is going up from the Pacific Islands for
- labor. The island races can’t or won’t supply what
is wanted, and it is increasingly difficult to main-
tain existing enterprises. The easy answer is
“Asiatic.” But the introduction of Asiatic laborers
will create new problems, especially if they are
allowed to settle in the islands after their term
of service, and it is doubtful if Asia would agree
to any other condition. The right to settle would
be part of the contract. Hitherto Fiji has been the
only large British group in the Western Pacific
which has introduced this labor. As a result it
has now an Indian population of 60,000, and it is
only a matter of time when the fecund Hindus will
increase until, like the Japanese in Hawaii, they
outnumber the aboriginal population. The Oriental-
isation of Fiji goes on apace. The moral effect
on the native Fijian is such as to cause a prominent
missionary to declare that “Fiji will be heathen
again within the century.” He speaks from the mis-
sionary’s standpoint, but the establishment of a
hostile, race-conscious population in Fiji,. the
strategic nerve-centre of the Pacific, is oi serious
political moment to Australasia. And now other
island groups nearer Australia want the Asian
laborer ! The clamor for him grows round me here in
the Solomons. Yet, unquestionably, the race that
develops the islands will ultimately own them. So
these questions arise:—
(1) Can Australia view the Orientalisation of the
Pacific with equanimity?
(2) Are the islands to be retained for the native
races ? *
(3) What is to become of the millions of fertile
acres awaiting labor to develop them?
There, in brief, is the problem of the Pacific
Islands. I suppose there will not be much doubt
that the answer to the first question must be “No.”
The Orientalisation of the islands constitutes a
great danger. If so, then Australia must be pre-
pared to accept all that that implies; and the
chief implication is that, under any administration
satsfactory to us, the islands are not going to be of
very great value to the commerce either of Australia
or of any other country. Their development may
easily mean Australia’s destruction.
♦
Any big man who is willing to commit poli-
tical suicide in a good cause —as Curtius,
late M.L.A. for Rome, did —might do it on
a grand scale by heading a crusade for the
wholesale reduction of civil services. In
Queensland the Court has fixed the mini-
mum wage for the male letter-copier or what-
not aged over 21 at £2OO a year, but £250
is asked for. so the matter is likely to re-
open. In Westralia the Civil Service has
been on strike (teachers, savings bank and
land and taxation and law court officials all
included) for a rise of practically £6O a
year all round. The Arbitration Court has
been dealing with a Federal demand for
a minimum wage of £194 a year. It is
better to have a weC-paid Civil Service than
an overgrown one, and a great amalgamation
of State and Federal savings banks, taxation
offices, electoral ■ partments, industrial jobs
and other thing : should set a whole crowd
free for produc. ve employment. Then the
better payment of the ' survivors would be
easy. The c an try might even struggle
along with cr > Coyernment astronomer. If
Frederic S altngwax, junior, is getting
even £l5O a year for doing something that
needn’t be do: e at all, or duplicating some-
one else’s WQik. the country loses not only
that, but the £2OO or £5OO that he might
be maki j in a woollen factory, j
Another Labor pre-selection that shrieks
for explanation:—
In October the East Melbourne branch of the
A.L-P. called for nominations from men willing and
eligible to contest the seat at the State election.
Three went to the ballot — Safe, J. F. Wilson and
W. J. Connell. Twelve persons voted, 11 of them
for Connell, and he was declared selected. But
it was publicly stated before the ballot that if
Connell won he wouldn’t get the endorsement of
the Central ■ Executive, and he didn’t, although he
has been a good Labor man for 25 years and a
member of the branch for six or seven, and is a
man with a clean record. It took the Executive
over three months to make up its mind about the
business. It then asked the branch to call for
fresh nominations, giving as a reason that the first
ballot was too small. The branch refused. The
Ex. applied pressure, and the branch again refused.
The branch secretary then advised Connell to put
his case in writing to the Central Ex., which he
did; nevertheless it coerced the branch into calling
for fresh nominations. Connell protested, and
declined to have anything to do with the affair, but
his name appeared on the ballot-papers along with those
of Collins (a publican opposite the Trades Hall),
and Chris .Bennett, a member of the Executive. It
is known that Bennett advised his friends to vote for
Collins. Only 20 voters could be whipped up to
the ballot, and the publican won. The Executive
endorsed him immediately, and he is now the official
candidate. However, Connell intends going on with
his candidature, and it remains to be seen how
the wirepullers will justify methods which would
make Tammany turn sea-green.


Empire Defence and the Safety of Australia.
Mr. Amery, Undersecretary for the
Colonies, in giving an outline of the naval
defence proposals for the Empire, stated that
it had leen decided to adopt “a new system,
consisting of a defensive chain, of which
each link will he primarily equipped to sus-
tain its oion defence
Naval Defence is, to Australia, of grave importance, and calls
for preparedness with ships of war, guns and munitions.
Australia cannot risk her safety by dependence upon others
to supply her needs in these directions. The facilities for
their manufacture in case of necessity must be established
here. This makes essential the development, on a sound
basis, of the
Australian Iron
and Steel Industry
apart altogether from the economic aspect of the question.
[2
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Reps, found the Industrial Peace Bill
so enthralling that great floods of the debate
were poured into the ears of the Hansard
staff and scarcely any others. About a
dozen members were frequently present, and
those who weren’t drowsing, or writing let-
ters, or reading newspapers, were head to
head, chuckling. Labor-member: Gabb, who
has adopted the praiseworthy but hopeless
ambition of keeping his colleagues up to
the mark, called brutally for quorums, but
bis attention to business produced only a
wave of peevishness among the heroes who
had been called away from billiards and
the barside. The Federal Parliament will
have to be paid by piece work. The absur-
dity of a flat rate of £lOOO a year is becom-
ing too painfully apparent.
Premier Lee met the Tasmanian Parlia-
ment and a motion of no-confidence on the
same day. The Opposition’s assault dif-
fered from the usual thing, inasmuch as it
singled out the Premier as the object of
attack, and implied that his colleagues’ only
fault was the misfortune of being asso-
ciated with a Premier gifted with a capacity
for supreme bungling. The debate hadn’t
gone far before both party-leaders realised
that motions of no-confidence aimed at indi-
vidual members of Cabinets are really mis-
siles aimed at the party system’s most vul-
nerable point. To avoid catastrophe, such
methods will have to be banned as contrary
to the usages of party warfare, or a bar-
barous innovation inimical to the accepted
standards of civilised politics or something.
Lenin on the use of “the delusive word
Freedom” as “a cloak to hide the spectre of
economic slavery”;—
An iron Government, composed of a few unshrink-
ing men with clear minds and an emphatic class
conciousness, are what are wanted, and what Russia
happily has.
Well, the French Revolutionary Government
was iron, of a sort, and unflinching, and per-
meated by an emphatic class consciousness.
But it wasn’t what France wanted very long.
Moreover, the iron supports were frequently
changed. And the iron Government of un-
shrinking men will breed enough malcontents
to remove Lenin, too. His days are num-
bered. As long as he greased the huge mass
of Russian ignorance and intrigued like an
anxious Jew, he was comparatively safe but
since he started to talk like a Cromwell the
man of blood and bunkum looks very like the
lilies which to-day are in the field and to-
morrow go to a funeral.
“Papuan P.”: The Australian Govern-
ment is doing its darnedest to discourage the
settlement of Papua by the white race. I
sent to Brisbane for a parcel of clothing,
including three woollen singlets. The reply
was that the firm had to await permission
from the Comptroller of Customs in Mel-
bourne, as the goods are made from wool
grown in Australia, and it requires a special
permit to send wool outside Australia.
Meanwhile, however, the Australian Income
Tax Commissioner holds out his hand for
his share of my income {he persists in
regarding me as an Aussie citizen), and all
our imports are subject to two tariffs, one
on goods imported into Australia, and our
own Customs tariff of 10 per cent, ad val.
on top of that. But how can Australia be
expected to know these things? We have
no Parliamentary representation: we are
taxed by a body which is quite alien to us.
Honestly, what does Australia think of this?
Does it ever regard itself as a tyrant—as
a sort of slave-owner?
According to a little par in the Sydney
dailies
The executive council of the A.L.P. has decided
to approach the Minister of Education with a request
for the provision of national, free and compulsory
education for the blind. «
It is touching, and suggests a beneficent
A.L.P. Council rushing to the protection of
the distressed and succoring the neglected.
At the last census there were only 1011
blind people in N.'S. Wales, the vast majo-
rity of them old and quite past the education
stage, and there were enough blind institu-
tions to educate all the rest; but since the
A VENTRILOQUIAL ENTERTAINMENT.
census the war has brought along a melan-
choly crop of adult blind who certainly
require to be taught—to be taught trades.
As, however, Labor institutions like the
Boilermakers’ and Bricklayers’ Unions
refuse to allow even capable returned sol-
diers, educated by the State, to work as
unionists, and ban them as if they were
Chinamen or lepers, the way is rather diffi-
cult. Perhaps the A.L.P. Council in its
benevolence will appoint another deputation,
this one to interview the Boilermakers and
the Bricklayers, and speak to them about
it. And perhaps it won’t.
“Copabella”: All the old sinful waste
marks, the campaign for the Second Peace
Loan —the same old money-eating devices
that were used to whoop up war-men and
war-money during the desperate war-years.
The opening of the campaign in my town is
probably typical. Though it is only 45
miles from Melbourne, with four or five
mails a day, and a very fair trunk-line
’phone service, communication is carried on
by urgent tcire (reply paid). First came
a pink slip from some unknown called an
organiser asking: “Are you doing anything
for the Peace Loan?” Next a wire advised
that the organiser and the Lord Mayor were
coming down to help us do something. A
few minutes later came another saying the
organiser and the Lord Mayor could not
come. And so the thing goes on. In our
town alone two drayloads of publicity rub-
bish has already been carted away from the
newspaper offices, unopened, and of course
unread. Many pounds’ worth and weight
of posters have come, most of them appeal-
ing to our patriotic instincts, when a hint
that and 5 p.c. War and Peace Loan
stock can be converted into Second 6 p.c.
Peace Loan by taking up a similar amount
of the latter would draw in its thousands
to the poor patriots’ tenners. But making
subscription a plain business matter would
not provide jobs for an army of spruikers,
etc., and so the wicked orgy of extravagance
goes on.
From the Federal gallery:—
The absence of Speaker Johnson from the Reps,
gave the Laborites a chance to bait Deputy-Speaker
Chanter and make him feel very uncomfortable.
Chanter is an old Labor man who has been guilty
of a couple of decisions that may be put down
more to advanced age and a failing judgment than
to any loss of impartiality in the conduct of the
House. All the same, the Ryan following privately
charges him with leaning to the side of the party
that voted him his billet, and with the memory of
a now-historic battle between him and Doc. Maloney,
the red-raggers need no incentive to make his life
a burden. It is not a very chivalrous business,
but it serves to humiliate both Chanter and the
Government. The other night the astute Ryan
tripped up the Deputy on a ruling, and with the
help of the Country crowd and a couple of others
made the ancient look rather foolish. The whole
trouble, of course, is that Chanter is too old for
a position of authority. He is in the seventies, and
mental drowsiness, combined with departing vigil-
ance, lures him into situations from which he cannot
escape without challengeable readings of the Stand-
ing Orders.
A homing Digger wrote to The Bulletin
lately from U.S.A. stating, among other
things, that in Alabama, which he had just
visited, so much revenue had been lost
through Prohibition that the schools were
starved ; also that more people were in the
State Prisons than before Prohibition
arrived and that 1400 stills had been
destroyed in four months. The N. S. Wales
Cold Tea party submitted a message which it
proposed to send to the Governor of Ala-
bama, giving a fair epitome of the Digger’s
story, and asking “Is this so?” The Bulle-
tin has since received this cable: — .
Facts mentioned absolutely untrue. Alabama greatly
benefited by Prohibition.— Kii.by.
The Bulletin doesn’t know Kilby, but is
told that he is a manufacturer and was a
Wet until he lived under Dry conditions.
In the struggle to put off the day of
responsibility it is proposed to import ail
expert to say what is the most suitable
railway gauge for this country and estimate
the cost of conversion. His decision is to be
final —like that of the expert who fixed the
uniform gauge nearly 70 years ago. But of
course if he proposes something the Parlia-
mentary majority doesn’t like it will be
rejected, and whatever he decides on won t
be any more final, unless Parliament says so,
than the decision to build the Sydney har-
bor bridge arrived at about 18b6. Ihe expert
will cost a lot of money, because all the best
men are at work, and that sort don t leave
steady business for odd jobs without big
inducement. If he is to know any more
about t’ <' kind of gauge we require than he
knows without coming here he must travel
over all the important lines. That, added to
the time before his arrival and the time spent
over his report, should fill in a year. In
deciding on the cost he will be guided by
the impossibility of saying what prices and
wages and loan rates will be like before the
job is finished, especially as he wont have
the ghost of an idea when it will be finished,
or even started. But possibly he will bring
a prophet with him. It looks a wasteful,
useless, shirking, procrastinating sort of
business; but the report may make a fair to
middling pipe-light.
Before the general election N. S. Wales
Labor Party lashed itself into a state of
moral exaltation on the subject of profiteer-
ing, and announced that it thirsted for the
profiteer’s blood. And this happened last
week:— m
Oakes (M.L.A.) : Is it a fact that an officer of his
department reported a Mr. Fitzgerald, who I believe
is the present Lord Mayor of Sydney, for a breach of
the Necessary Commodities Act, and that no prosecu-
tion was instituted ?
McTieiinan (Attorney-General) : It is a fact that
the Lord Mayor was reported for a breach of an
order, in that he sold kerosene at a price slightly
in excess of the fixed price. In pursuance of the
policy I have laid down that first offenders are not
to be prosecuted, no prosecution took place.
It is not a fact that first offenders against
the Necessary Commodities Act have not been
prosecuted ; and seeing that “the policy laid
down” by McTiernan is utterly vicious and
subversive of all law, it is a fair inference
that it would never have been “laid down”
if the man in the case hadn’t been a member
of Our Party.
Missing from the opening of N. S. Wales
Parliament was Jabez Wright’s periodical
motion in favor of day sittings, and by the
same token Jabez was missing too. At first
his proposal found favor, but someone pointed
out that if it were adopted “a man would
have to find an excuse for being out at night.”
After that the thing was never taken
seriously.
A cold shiver went through the Victorian
Assembly when Murphy, member for Port
Melbourne, of all places, announced that “a
time would come when Westernport would
have to be developed as the deep-sea port
of Victoria.” He was merely expressing the
obvious, but Melbourne and the statesmen
who sit there refuse to recognise the obvious
even when it threatens to bite them.
Provoked by an interjection, the mild
Fleming, M.11.1t., stigmatised Joel Moses Gabb
of Angas (S.A.) as “the honorable member
for Germany,” alluding to Joel’s periodical
bleats about the woes of German internees.
The author of the gibe instantly repented
and apologised, but Hansard faithfully pre-
served it for the edification of Posterity. Edi-
fication costs nothing and Posterity will need
it. At least it may distract Posterity’s
attention for a moment from its other
inheritance, transmitted to it by a loan-
drunk generation—a swarm of unpaid bills.
What a Hospice for the Dying the Argus
is! “For fools to rush in where diplomats
tread softly is dangerous impudence,” it
wailed last week apropos the British Labor
Conference’s efforts to stop a fresh war
against Russia. These Laborites may be
fools. It remains to be proved. But the
abject ineptitude of the diplomats, whether
expressed in the soft treading df secret
treaties or in truculent sabre-rattlings, has
become axiomatic all over the world. They
were entrusted with the duty of preventing
wars, and the fruit of their efforts is to
be seen in millions of newly-made graves
containing the flower of the world’s youth,
in widespread anarchy and in daily threats
of more wars. And the Argus still ranks
them with the angels.
Westralia has provided a rotten adver-
tisement for civil-service strikes. The
clerks and teachers who trooped out of the
W.A. departments got nothing by striking
that they couldn’t have achieved by remain-
ing on the job, and they lost—or will lose —
three weeks’ salary. They encountered cold
weather when they approached the trade
unions, and in demanding to be paid for the
time they were out on strike they antago-
nised every taxpayer not on the Government’s
pay-sheet. A§ soon as their money gave
out they stampeded back on Premier Mit-
chell’s terms, and nobody should have been
surprised if Mitchell had heaved out the
not-wanteds and levelled up the salaries of
those kept on; for although the cost of
government in Westralia is out of all rea-
son. the good man is worth more than he
gets. Had a man like George Turner been
Premier of the West, the occasion would
have been seized to have, a much-needed and
business-like cleaning-up. But Mitchell is
just Mitchell —stout, easy-going, good-
humored and full of sleep.
THE LURE OF HOMICIDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I am still enough of a boy to like a \\ ild IVest
picture, and to see a man shoot down six Indians
with both hands.” —Frank Clarke, Vic. Minister of
Works.
It does not lacerate my soul
To learn that Poland's up the pole;
1 should not mourn if Czechs and Ylachs
Got it where turkeys get the axe;
With blank indifference I read
That Fritz is in the direst need ;
And what the Letts intend, and what
The Russians, interest me not.
But the blood starts galloping through my veins
At a pictured tale of the Texas plains;
And the heart-beats verily crease my vest
When Prairie Pete, of the whirling West,
Lifts the hair from 'a half-breed’s head,
Or plugs the Indian chief with lead.
And even a peaceable M.L.C.
Can scarce forbear to cheer,
When Peter, weaponed from neck to knee,
Shoots up a pub with sportive glee
And drinks the bad-man’s beer.
For Shahs I do not care a dump
And Feisal gives a man the hump ;
Sectarianism 1 don’t admire,
So Hughes and Mannix frankly tire;
Nor does my fancy run to pugs,
Or Jugo-Slavs, or Slavo-Jugs;
And cranks who specialise in syph.,
And Cold-Tea blighters bore me stiff.
But I feel like a prisoner freed from gaol,
When Sagebrush Samuel hits the trail —
Sam, with his lariat poised in air,
His impossible pants and stringy hair—-
And I cheer like mad when he rescues Beck,
And gaily stretches the Greaser’s neck.
For even a Minister calm and keen
With ecstasy is thrilled
When cowboys limned on a calico screen
Bring up Romance at nine-fifteen,
And somebody else is killed.
N.S.W.
D. E.


THE PEACE BALLET.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms —
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products—
Antimonial Lead. Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL. Manager. T. H. SEARS, Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS. EC. 2
A. J. SMITH, London Manager and Secretary.
__ SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY— __
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuso
Detonators
Cartridges
HIGH-GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification,
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon, Chrome Vanadium, Acid-
resisting or other Alloy Steels of every description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
(Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London),
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W.
Branch Works in course of erection at West Guildford, Perth, W r .A.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
(N.S.YV.) . ,
Bonus to Added Capital
Net Policy- to Re- anil Re-
Profits. holders. Dividends. serves. serves.
J Une cb *
1908!.15,620 7,048 i 15s p.c.= 7,0484 1,523 138
1909.. 3 5,76 b 7,571 16i „ „ 7,671 626 96,(64
1910.. 355 7,8904 174 „ „ 7,8904 3,574 100,338
-iq-i-i qqq R 4QI Iti .. 8,491 12,007 112, 34j
1912.. 0’, 2944 15 „ „ 9,2944 3,662 110-007
1913.. 284 10,359 16J „ „ 10,359 0,566 121,5(3
1914.. 984 11,840 17 „,. 11,840 ,?> B an > 1 “ 3,87 ‘
New capital got in . . £54,889 I X 79,749
Premiums on new shares 983 )
1915.. 32.045 13,949 17 p.e. = 13,949 4,148 188,897
New capital •• •• i»3,juy
1916.. 33.571 13,985 11 p.c. = 13,985 5,601 189,510
1917.. 618 14,812 10 „,, 12,500
New capital .. •• £99 181, 91j
3918:.39,450 14,593 12$p.c.= 15,652 9,232 191,14,
1919.. 323 15,243 124 „ „ 6,450 197,602
New capital . . • • £25,000 222,602
1920.. 42.469 16,998 121p.c.= 18,750 6,721 229,323
Note, first, that the figures in the last column
include paid capital, which, at the balance,
totalled £150,000 —800,000 £1 shares paid to
10s. It is now proposed to use £75,000 of
the reserves of £79,323 to add ss. all round.
At the same time the directors are putting
out, probably at a premium, a further 100,000
shares to be paid also to 15s. Nominal capi-
tal has been increased to half a million to
accommodate these movements, and when the
new issue and the transfer have been com-
pleted paid capital will amount to £300,000,
there will be a further £lOO,OOO callable, and
100.000 shares will remain unissued. Paid
capital 10 years ago was only £45,000. After
the new issue £155,000 of cash will have been
since got in from shareholders, so one-third
of the total paid capital of £300.000 will
represent scria provided for out of undivided
profits during the past 10 years. Share-
holders whose interests go further back have
done even better, for one-half of the 1910
paid capital represented transferred reserves.
The new capital was badly needed to
finance the rapidly expanding business.
Twelve months ago funds were equal to only
117 p.c. of the previous year’s net premiums,
whereas a proportion of about 150 p.c. is
generally considered desirable. Though early
in the past term £25,000 of new capital was
got in to pay, without disturbing other secu-
rities, the balance due on the Sydney premises
(the Merc, several years ago purchased for"
£122,000 the Mutual Life of New York pile
facing the G.P.0.), the underwriting busi-
ness has expanded so much that at the latest
balance the proportion of funds to risks, as
measured by net premium income, had not
improved a point. The £75.000 of capital
now being raised, however, will increase the
proportion to over 156 p.c. on the basis of
last year’s net premiums. Or, put another
way. the Mercantile Mutual will have funds
ample to meet claims in excess of the aggre-
gate losses for the past five years. How
swiftly the business has expanded is shown
by this comparison :
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
3895. . £34,333 £13,376 £14,356 38.9 p.c. 41.8 p.e
1900.. 37,235 9,068 18,489 24.4 „ 49.7 „
1905.. 50,534 12,051 26,961 23.8 „ 53.3 „
1910.. 72.406 21,656 35,078 29.9 „ 48.4 „
1914.. 130,673 48,868 62,007 37.3 „ 47.4 „
1915.. 136,858 50,664 61,458 37.0 „ 44.9 „
1916.. 143,320 46,267 68,841 32.3 „ 48.0 ~
1917.. 153.702 70.090 71.709 45.6 ~ 46.6 ~
1918.. 164,791 57.066 76.828 34.6 „ 46.6 „
1919.. 169,031 56,135 83,973 33.2 ~ 49.7 „
1920.. 194,681 67,212 94,083 34.5 „ 48.3 „
In its earlier years the co. confined its atten-
tions to N. S. Wales and Queensland, and
in those two States it was then concerned
more with the quality than the quantity of
business it could write. During more recent
years the directors decided that the less
profitable class of business was also wdt'th
attention, and only last year were the old
Articles altered to permit the handling of
marine insurance. This change in policy
has been accompanied by a widening of the
co.’s field of operations, and it is now estab-
lished in all States. The directors also con-
template an invasion of Maoriland, and may
go even further overseas. A feature of the
table above is the heavy expense rate; it
always has been high, no doubt chiefly be-
cause of the conservative policy of selecting
the business brought in. Lately, however,
the establishment of new branches, the
expenses incidental to the extensive pro-
perty purchase in Sydney and additional
taxation have increased the outgo. Whether,
in view of the certain increased demands
of the Treasuries, this expense rate can b< j
reduced much in the immediate future is
doubtful. But what is clear is that the
capitalisation of reserves and the introduc-
tion of new capital are going to eftect a
reduction in the dividend rate. Bast yeai
net profits, after deducting the bonus to
policy-holders, amounted to £20,471. Assuro-
ing that the £75,000 of new capital earns 5
p.c. net, and that last year’s costs and favor-
able claims experience are repeated, it will
be surprising if the current year’s net earn-
ings amount to much over 10 p.c. on
capital. That is, of course, unless there
is a large increase in the volume of profitable
new business. Since prices are now pro-
bably at their zenith, and particularly since
traders are restricting stocks, the Merc,
may have to depend upon the activities of its
new branches to provide any immediate
large increase in gross premium income.
But is underwriting in the near future
going to work out so well as recently.
Things have mostly gone the insurance cos.’
way during late years; rising markets have
enliahced the value of stocks and abnormal
conditions have given the public greater
spending capacity and gradually inflated the
value of almost everything. Under these
circumstances the moral hazard has been
particularly good. But what will happen il
the current begins to run the other way:
the public no longer able to pay the still
prices, and traders and speculators unable to
unload their expensive purchases? At the
present moment there are probably more
liquidators at work on busted small busi-
nesses than at any time for some years, and,
as shown elsewhere on this page, a crash on
a larger scale has already occurred. In
view of the fact that the future is, to say
the least, uncertain, the Mercantile Mutual
directors have chosen an inopportune time to
convert so large a volume of reserves into
capital. After the latest transfer there
remained only £4323 of reserves, whereas if
the customary 40 p.c. of net premiums had
been held in reserve there should have been
£78,000 in hand. On the basis of last year's
premiums and expenses, a loss rate of 50
p.c. would absorb all current income, wipe
out all reserves and necessitate calling on
capital to make losses good. The loss experi-
ence of 1917, when a few fire-bugs were
busy in Sydney and hailstorms smashed
crops in the country, is an indication of
what might happen if the boom bubble burst
suddenly. However, to the policy-holder it
does not matter whether the protection
afforded is in the form of capital or reserves,
and, as already shown, the Merc. Mutual,
when it gets in its £75,000 of new capital,
will be in a strong position.
The N.S.W. Mont de Pif.te Deposit and
Investment Co. (Sydney) :
to Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1910.. £9,024 12* p.c. = £9,370 £254 £28,621
Premiums on new shares .. 3107 31,728
1911.. 11,939 12* p.c. = 9,740 2199 33,927
1912.. 12,005 12J „ „ 9,763 2242 36,169
Premiums on new shares .. 2915 39,084
1913.. 13,440 12J p.c. = ‘ 11,626 1814 40,898
1914.. 16,297 12* „ „ 13,211 3086 43,984
1915.. 11,792 10 „ „ 10,830 - 962 44,946
1916.. 13,342 10 „ „ 11,250 2092 47,038
1917.. 13,897 10 „ „ 11,250 2647 49,685
1918.. 14,993 114 „ „ 12,656 2337 52,022
1919.. 16,038 124 „ „ 14,062 1976 53,998
Reserves capitalised, £28,125 . . 25,873
1920.. 19,621. 12* p.c. = 16,023 3598 29,471
This 38-year-old money-lending concern now
balances only once instead of twice each year,
so the table above has been remodelled. Dur-
ing the year the directors, also for the first
time, capitalised some of the undistributed
profits, and shareholders received bonus
scrip representing 12* p.c. on their old hold-
ings. Portion of the new issue was in con-
tribs., the capitalisation increasing the num-
ber of fully-paid £1 shares from 100,000 to
114,060, and the 10s. paid shares from 25,000
to 53,124. A call of 2s. 6d. per share has since
been got in on the latter, making present
paid capital £147,245, on which 12* p.c.
is being divided with ease. It is a curious
anomaly that, though, as N. S. Wales Pre-
mier John Storey remarked the other day,
there appears to be “plenty of money about,”
this co. should be doing record business. But
while Governments have been spending lav-
ishly and stretching the national credit
almost to its limits, the public has followed
suit, aided by the vast volumes of Govern-
ment p.n.’s. The one influence preventing
the creation of the biggest private-loan boom
the Commonwealth has experienced has been
the timidity of the banks, building societies
and other money-lenders. Ever since the
war began the banks have denied advances
for the more speculative purposes; the build-
ing societies have confided that they could
have written twice —and, in some instances,
thrice —the volume of business they have
accepted. The straight-out money-lending
concerns curtailed their advances for a time,
but regained a little confidence (no doubt
assisted by a slightly-increased interest con-
sideration) as the war-clouds rolled by. The
N.S.W. Mont de Piete five years ago had
£149,515 in “advances on mortgages, pledges
and other securities and other assets.” At
the latest balance £158,979 was in the same'
bundle, which nowadays also includes a par-
cel of War Loan, though no hint is given
of the extent of these gilt-edged securities.
Average advances for the 12 months to June,
1915, were £145.028; interest earned (less
provision for contingencies) was £25,595
(=£l7 13s. p.c.) ; the past year’s average of
£155.919 earned £36,626 (=£23 9s. Bd/ p.c.).
Meantime office expenses, etc., have increased
from £13,884 to £17,169. But there is now
a very handsome margin of profit; net earn-
ings for the past 12 months showed over
17 p.c. on the actual money shareholders
have put up. The co. is working almost
wholly on its own funds: at June 30 it
owed only £3163, which included provisions
for land and income taxes. Five years ago
the management was working on a £11,977
bank overdraft and £3OOO-odd of deposits,
and owed altogether £16,336. So no matter
how badly things may go, the management
will not be troubled by creditors clamoring
for their money. Besides the advances, the
N.S.W. Mont de Piete at the balance had
£27,678 in premises, etc., and £2214 in the
till.
* * #
The Australian Drug Co., Ltd. (Syd-
ney) : —•
June, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1911.. £4,766 5 p.c. = £3,750 £lOl6 £10,252
1912.. 3,419 5 ~ „ 3,750 9,921
1913.. 8,572 10 „ „ 7,500 1072 10,993
1914.. 8,875 10 „ „ 7,500 1375 12,368
1915.. 8,921 10 „ „ 7,500 1421 13,789
1916.. 9,885 10 „ „ 7,500 2385 16,174
1917.. 9,985 10 ~ ~ 7,500 2485 18,659
Premiums on new shares.. 170 18,829
1918.. 17,084 10 p.c. = 8,750 8334 27,163
1919.. 12,010 10 „ „ 10,000 2010 29,173
1920.. 13,939 10 „ ~ 10,000 3939 33,112
This co.’s finance has been feeling the pres-
sure of costly stocks and the strain of rapid
expansion; so the directors propose to put
out. at par to present 25,000 new
£1 shares. A similar number was issued in
1917 to redeem £25,000 of debentures; and
at the subsequent balance liabilities had
been reduced to £38,719. But, despite the
£6OOO or so of surplus profit since accumu-
lated, debts are now up again to £55,495.
This shows the balance-sheet movements
over the period covered by the first table
and also during the past five years:—
1911. 1915. 1920.
Capital £75,000 £75,000 £lOO,OOO
Liabilities . . . . .. 44,591 44,495 55,495
Freeholds and plant . . 8,868 19,659 16,930
Stock f ? ,i ) 64,836 103,506
Book debts . . . j llb ’ 741 l 44,160 71,210
Cash, investments, etc. .. 8,034 12,129 6,960
Five years ago stocks and book debts totalled
£108,996; at the latest balance, £174,716,
or practically £68,000 more. Until lately
it was not clear what would be the new
settled prices; over a year ago there was
a sharp fall, but much 'further relief seems
unlikely for a long time. So the directors
consider they can see profitable use for the
new capital. Nevertheless, they are taking
precautions to protect their stocks against
any further trouble; last year’s slump was
provided for, and everything in hand at the
latest balance had been included “at cost or
under.” Besides holding a much more expen-
sive lot of ready-to-sell goods, the Austra-
lian Drug has steadily extended its manu-
facturing activities, and that has, of course,
necessitated larger stocks of raw materials.
War troubles did not hurt the co. at all.
The regular 10 p.c. div. was paid with
greater ease during that disturbed period
than at any other time, though capital was
increased one-third. Nor do the directors
anticipate that the getting in of the £25,000
of new capital will disturb the old div. rate.
Profits for the past year would have been
ample to provide 10 p.c. on the enlarged
capital, but it would not be surprising if the
directors admitted that the co. had done
even better than the figures show. The
reduction of the book value of fixed assets
during the past five years by £2729, despite
the extension of manufacturing interests,
further indicates hard writing down. But
there is no definite evidence about this; the
P. and L. account consists merely of one
line giving what the directors declare to be
the net profits.
Dennys, Lascelles, Ltd. (Geelong),
wool-brokers and salesmen of pastoral and
agricultural products (the co. started with a
deficit of £51,765, representing goodwill
£50,000 and preliminary exes.) :
June, Profits. Dividends.' To Reserves. Deficit.
1913.. £9,863 7 p.c. = £10,500 £52,402
1914.. 14,470 7 „ „ 10,500 £3970 48,432
1915.. 7,065 7 „ „ 10,500 51,867
1916.. 11,500 7 „ „ 10,500 1006 50,867
1917.. 14,995 7 „ „ 10,500 4495 46,372
1918.. 14,479 7 „ „ 10,500 3979 42,393
1919.. 17,146 7 „ „ 10,500 6646 35,747
1920.. 20,274 7 „ „ 10,500 9774 25,973
That’s more like the profit the late E. 11.
Lascelles hoped for when he passed his half-
century-old business over to a public co.
eight vears ago. For the half-dozen years
prior to 1912 the books of the old proprie-
tary disclosed an average net profit of
£13.198 p.a., and Mr. Lascelles showed his
faith in the future by asking no cash con-
sideration and by guaranteeing 7 p.c. p.a. to
shareholders during the first five years of
the public co. But drought hit the \ ic.
western districts very badly in the hrst jeai
of the concern, so during the five years the
7 p.c. was barely earned. Gradually the
situation improved again and high prices
helped commission earnings. Early in the
past year the management decided to take
a hand in marketing live stock in Melbourne,
and this branch is declared to have * more
than justified its existence.” This shows how
gross earnings have improved:
1914. . £34,769 I 1917.. £38,658 I 1919.. £48,351
1915.. 25,716 I 1918.. 43,192 | 1920.. 55,356
The past year’s net profit represented a
return of p.c. on capital, but apparently
the directors" are intent on strengthening the
position of the co., so the div. rate lias not
been lifted. This is wise, for not oply are
liabilities heavy, but practically £26,000 of
capital is still unrepresented by tangible
assets, £50,000 (in shares) having been paid
for goodwill at the beginning. The replace-
ment of this paper capital by assets which
can be handled should assure better divs. in
the future.
Another view of the progress made by the
co. since the first accounts were published
is given by this comparison of the balance-
sheet figures :
1913. 1919. 1920.
Liabilities .. . . £113,076 £61,741 £76,467
Property, plant, etc. .. 76,300 77,423 79,690
Stock .. .. .. 4,062 1,498 7.418
Book debts .. . . 133,625 96,323 105,862
Cash and sundries .. 1,937 5,999 12,773
At June, 1913, there was a surplus of more
or less liquid assets over liabilities of
£26,548. At the latest balance the surplus
had been increased to £49,586. Meantime
the book value of fixed assets has expanded
£3390. So over the seven years the co.’s.
position has been improved by £26,428, after
paying regular 7 p.c. divs. Put another way,
while shareholders have received 7 p.c. p.a.
profits equal to a further 2$ p.c. p.a. have
been left in the business.
* * * *
W. N. Beaumont and Co., an old station-
supply firm, of Sydney, has crashed. Besides
the firm there is a co. —recently W. N.
Beaumont, Ltd., was put off as a pup float —
but creditors, having taken legal advice, are
putting both into the liquidator’s hands to
be treated as one concern. Beaumont’s,
notwithstanding a chaotic exchange market,
plunged in Indian jute. The rupee,
worth about 2s. lOd. a few months ago, has
slumped to Is. 10d., which means that jute
is not so expensive as it was. Conse-
quently accumulated stocks are worth less,
while nobody can tell what heavy shipments
contracted for will realise. W. N. Beaumont,
Ltd., has a paid capital of £19,993. To
finance its plunge it ran up an overdraft of
£27,408, and it owes £5655 besides. Against
these capital and outside liabilities totalling
£53,056 the liquidator can find £40,411 of
assets, so on present showing the co. has lost
all but £7348 of its capital. The original
Beaumont firm is the the one which holds all
the contracts, and it also owns 19,643 of the
19,993 shares in the co. It signed up con-
tracts for £123,855 of jute, but at latest
market prices these shipments will fetch only
£98,790 locally, a loss of £25,065. The loss
may be even greater, for there is no guarantee
that prices will not slump further. The
firm has also done a little in wheat scrip, and
is £2184 to the bad on that. General mer-
chandise contracts, however, are estimated to
yield a surplus of £8307, reducing the esti-
mated loss on realisations to £18,941. Against
this the firm’s £19,643 share interest in the
co. is estimated to be worth £7220. net assets
amounting to £7138. Approximately, there
will be £40.000 of assets to meet £52,000 of
debts. When the bank takes its cut of
£27.408, there will be £12,600 of possible
a.ssets to cover £25,000 of liabilities, so
creditors los. in the £.
• * * *
. After being for over 40 years in the hands
of a proprietary, Allsopp’s Silver Spray
Flour Mill, Murrumburrah (N.S.W.), is
being passed over to a public co. Thos.
Allsopp, the founder, died last year and the
old mill was destroyed by fire. The Allsopp
family, in rebuilding, installed plant to in-
crease production by 50 per cent., and con-
structed silos to curtail handling charges.
Independent valuations show assets worth
£47,700, and the old proprietors are asking
£l3OO for goodwill. The new co. is to have
a nominal capital of £70,000 in £1 shares,
and 60,000 are to be issued. The Allsopp
family retain 24,500 shares and take £24,500
of the £35,500 cash to be put up by the
public, which henceforth will thus hold the
controlling interest. The books of the old
concern during its last 4£ years show that
profits averaged £6380 p.a.
# * * *
Wood, Son and Co. (founded by Gilbert
Wood in 1854 as a retail grocery, but whole-
saling since 1897) is the latest of Adelaide’s
big firms to become a limited liability co.
Peter Wood and James Gartrell remain the
heads, and for the present no shares go out.
Nominal capital, half a million.


Do you use soldering irons in your business? No
doubt you would appreciate the advantages of those
which stay hot and are free from the soot of a
heating flame. The G.E. Electric Soldering Iron
possesses these and many other advantages over the
old style. It costs but little for current, and re-
quires very little attention to be kept clean and
well tinned. An exclusive feature of this iron is
the spiral coil wire handle, which keeps remarkably
cool, and which may be grasped close to the tip
without discomfort. Australian General Electric
Company, corner Wentworth Avenue/ and Goulburn
street, Sydney; and corner Queen and Little Collins
Streets, Melbourne.— Advt. [2
Experience is an oculist that sometimes cures blind
faith. Experience with “Adamax”' Asphaltum Roof-
ing gives builders everywhere absolute faith in its
lasting qualities, and superiority in every roofing
essential. “Adamax ” is easily handled—costs less
than galvanised iron, less for freight and less to
lay. In addition “Adamax” will not pinhole or
rust, whilst acids do not affect it. Write for free
booklet, get full information. William Adams and
Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and
Adelaide.— Advt.
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe. —Letter received from
lable Cape Municipality, Council Chambers, Wyu-
yard, dated 19th August, 1914: “The five miles 60
chains of Bin. wood pipes (for pressures of 350 ft.
head) which were supplied by you for the Wynyard
waterworks, have proved to be very satisfactory,
lhey are giving good results. Yours faithfully,
(Sg:d.) 11. K. Littler, Town Clerk.” Send for oiir
illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Company, Ltd., (H. 0.) Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and Foots-
cray, Victoria. Contractors to all State Govern-
ments.— Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patentjS.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attoiricv, ink s Building's, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Cliallis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.—Advt.
IDEAS. Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison k Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, ana Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
Mix your concrete with Leplastrier’s Patent “Multi-
mix ’ Concrete Mixer. Sizes from l| to 54 cubic
it. per batch. Drain your roads with concrete pipes
“ft® e A with “Quickset” Pipe Moulds.
* Australian-made by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.,
Head Office, Sydney.— Advt.
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
L.-L. (London); Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
" > contractors advised; railway work.
90 Queen-street, Melbourne.— Advt.
The manufacture of “Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both maiine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal- Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
lasmama, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
Ihe workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” eom-
"dth any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Sydney.—
Advt.
T. 11. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne. — A dvt.
* * « •
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s k Oertling’s
balances. Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
™ tels - ° r write for particulars. 11. B. Selby & Co.,
cr!. ’ , or ®’ e Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt.
Mining man with old London connections wants
mining propositions of highest order for handling in
London personally. Sharebroker, care Mercantile
Exchange, Melbourne. — Advt.
The Patent “Curvilinear” Concentrator
has a capacity of £-ton per hour on fine feed, and up to 1£ ton per hour on coarse feed.
Considering that the overall length of the Table is under 12ft, with a width of only 4ft., this performance is remarkable.
lhe small space occupied is a great consideration where Mill area is limited. The Mineral-
saving power of the Table is as extraordinary as its capacity: as witness these two extracts
from unsolicited letters, one being from a large well-known tin-mine:
“The recovery, even crowding the coarse table as we do, is remarkable, the feed is almost 3iin
deep all over the riffles, yet there is scarcely a trace of tin in the tailings. The fine Table has a soeed
of about 300; we find j>4in stroke necessary, or the very fine tin packs between the riffle? WeTre
saving absolute slime tin like paint, usually considered only possible on vanners.”
“We now have your Curvilinear Table in operation on low-grade tin concentrates which have beer,
subjected to a roast treatment for elimination of the sulnhides. This class of pulp is usually Regarded
as the hardest to re-concentrate without a high tail loss. Your machine is doing: excellent work »nd
all you claim for it, both in efficiency and tonnage.” g excellent work * and »
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.. 10-12
Sole Manufacturers and Patentees
George Street, Camperiown
Mining', Electrical and General Engineers.
(City), Sydney,
df
From a man in the linseed-oil trade:—
Some of the figures put forward by the promoters
of the Australasian Oil and Cake Mills, Ltd. (re-
viewed 12/8/’2O), set me thinking. “A conservative
estimate of profit in treating one ton of linseed,”
they say, “is £20.” Well, on that basis, the very
successful Meggitt, Ltd., of Sydney, which last year
handled about 15,000 tons seed, should have made
a profit of £300,000 instead of the £21,000-odd
disclosed by its balance-sheet. Even assuming that
the promoters intended their estimate to be the gross
trading profit per ton, on that calculation Meggitt’s
should have made over a quarter of a million net
last year.
The manager of Storey and Fotheringham, whose
business the new co. is to take over, is stated to
estimate the cost of treating one ton of seed at £2,
but “with additional facilities, and by handling
larger amounts, the cost would be reduced to 10s.
per ton.” Carrying charges must be very mild in
Adelaide, for it would be impossible to cart the
stuff to and from the mills in Sydney at that
figure, and on top of that are all the costs of
crushing, refining and packing. My curiosity
prompted me to ascertain what were the figures,
available in Adelaide but not included in the pros-
pectus, for the first four months of the S. and F.
business. They show that £2151 of seed gave a
gross profit of £753 and a net profit of £404.
Assuming that the seed cost £4O per ton, then
during that period they crushed about 530 tons for
a gross profit of 28s. 4d. per ton and a net profit of
15s. 3d. per ton.
Incidentally, the figures of this young concern in-
dicate a profit at the rate of £1212 p.a., from which
allowances for depreciation would apparently have to
be made. And for a business of those dimensions the
vendors are asking 24,000 fully paids and £3OOO
cash. No stocks are included in that purchase price,
for they are “to be bought by the co. at valuation.”
To say the least, it is up to the promoters to
supplement their present prospectus by showing in
£ s. d* precisely what they have to sell for the
£27,000 they are to receive in shares and cash, and
also explain how they arrive at their estimate "of
prospective costs and profits.
_ “Specker”: Melbourne Stock Exchange,
since Alf Noall got into the chair, has suf-
fered periodical spasms of high morality.
After a week's hard thinking, its latest is
to ask the Badak Board, because of the in-
jury done to mining through the conflicting-
reports received about that show, to tell off
some certificated mining-engineer, up in tin-
mining, to examine the claim. Exactly what
is meant by a “certificated” johnny is not
explained. But why should the Stock
Exchange bother about the matter at all? A
trained man like recently-appointed general-
manager Raleigh can do all that is neces-
sary, especially since he has been primed as
to the ways of the wily coolie and is given
a free hand. What the Stock Exchange
should do is to follow up the course of deal-
ing in order to nail those who got into the
market and unloaded before Scarborough’s
smashing cables got to shareholders. Any-
way, why make a set at Badak? Surely the
slump in White Hope and half a dozen other
Hamnton Plains shows has entailed far more
loss to investors than all the Badak shows
rolled into one?
* * * *
The saving of Edna May Deeps, Westonia
(W.A.), last half-year was the bagging of
£6504 on account of gold premium. A
heavy firing of explosives in the No. 5 level
stopes let water through the shattered rocks,
and until the broken material can be cleared
away cementing cannot be effectively car-
ried out. Fortunately the inflow is not from
the Edna May workings, or Deeps would be
i n . the ditch. But this water trouble, is a
trifling matter compared with the appear-
ance of a pegmatite dyke in the boundary
stope at No. 6 level. So, instead of Stuckey’s
expectation of a 50ft. by 50ft. block of ore
he was left with only a sft. make of stone
to fill the gap caused by the throwing idle
of No. 5 stope. Apart from this shading of
probable ore, he has cut down the size of
1 0A?.,. s k°°* : i n the main ore «hannel from
300 ft. long by 12ft. wide to 200 ft. b.V 9ft.
This means his ore reserves now compare
with those of six months ago as follows:
N0v.,’19. Value. May,’2o. Value.
Between Tons. Per Ton. Tons. Per Ton.
Nos. 4& 5 levels . . 10,000 50s. 7,000 525.
Nos. 5& 6 levels . . 21,000 40s. 12,000 40s.
So the Nov. figures of 31,000 tons have,
owing to the extraction of the 6560 tons and
to revised estimates, been reduced to 19,000
tons. The battery return gives an average
of lldwt., and as the 3000 tons broken from
the bottom level went 10.6dwt., this is the
value that has to be used as a factor when
working out the future of the Deeps. The
past half’s production brought in £13,563
from the mint, and gold premium and sun-
dry receipts increased income to £20,740;
so, with expenses absorbing under £17,000,
a profit of £3828 was earned. But water
and_ short tonnage lifted expenses from 425.
to 51s. per ton. Now the Deeps will have
to lift a lot more water, pay Is. a shift
more to its workers and 2s. 6d. a ton extra
for firewood. So Stuckey’s path is likely
to be a thorny one. He will be helped a
bit by returns from the cyanide plant lately
installed, but he is faced with the problems
of getting costs down and of chasing around
for more stone. Something may come from
the continuation of the Edna Central New
reef, though since in that co.’s ground it has
been narrowing for several levels. Deeps’
prospects in that quarter are not gilded.
* * * *
At least a dozen Hampton Plains ventures
have called in the undertaker during the
past few months, and the demise of others,
including the White Hope East, White Hope
Emperor, Mutooroo South, and Ayrshire, is
announced. Other shows at the last gasp are
the Lanarkshire, some in the Jubilee and
Revelation groups, a few worthless proposi-
tions around Mt. Goddard and a number of
delusions within a mile or two of the White
Hope. Celebration Junction is also in a
critical condition, and the Board has recom-
mended that work be discontinued and the
option abandoned.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie is becoming more concerned
about its future. Last year only one of the
biar shows —Gt. Boulder—was worked at a
profit independent of the gold premium.
Still, if the gold premium disappears so will
some of the present abnormal costs; for the
conditions that produce one produce also the
other.
North Kalgurli (W.A.) is still in the
hands of tributors, and the London-owned
co. has no intention of again working the
mine on its own account unless conditions
improve. Last year tributors extracted
£7537 worth gold, and the profit, includ-
ing a few sundry receipts, was £1339. After
providing for depreciation, etc., this sur-'
plus was reduced to £726. London net earn-
ings added £BO7, so in place of the former
P. and L. debit there is now a credit bal-
ance of £137. The co. has embarked on' a
West African trading business. Assets in-
clude £12,177 “invested in good securities”
and £2546 cash.
* * * #
Operations at Boulder No. 1 (W.A.) last
year showed a loss of £7Bl, reducing the cash
in hand to £5643. Tributors still root about
on the co.’s Kalgoorlie lease, but fail to
find anything pf much value. At present the
hopes of the Board are centred on new
country about six miles east of the Celebra-
tion, at Hampton Plains, but assays so far
have not been encouraging.
Golden Horseshoe (W.A.) intends shortly
to resume work on its Golden Treasure
leases. Operations there ceased nine years
ago when the management decided to con-
centrate on development on the Horseshoe
block. The Treasure lode at 350 ft. had a
width of Bft., and 1000 tons of ore broken
from it returned 365. 3d. per ton.
* * * *
Chairman F. A. Govett, of the Zinc‘Cor-
poration, wasn’t cheerful about the future
of the lead-zinc markets at the roll-up of
shareholders in London recently. He gave
warning that the artificial prosperity and
consequent inflation of prices cannot con-
tinue. and that re-action is “as sure as
death.” Looking around he finds that in
certain directions production has alreadv
overtaken demand, or that the costs of Brit-
ish manufactures prevent John Bull com-
peting with countries with exchanges in
their favor. Nevertheless, there is a hope
that the high price of metals will last suf-
ficently long for Risdon (Tas.) to make
Broken Hill zinc concentrates independent
of an export trade. As for the South Blocks
zinc lode, Govett doesn’t think it is worth
much unless it develops better, and probably
the co. will have to still regard the mine as
a lead show. Even so, it isn’t, a bad pro-
position, for it has over two million tons
of ore in reserve and the legacy of the South
Broken shoots which pitch into its ground.
* * * *
Takuapa Valley is the new Siamese tin
proposition the Malayan Tin Corporation is
passing on to its shareholders. Scout-boring
over 200 to 300 acres gave, an average of
over 141 b. for a depth of 294 ft. Since then
general-manager G. M. Yetts has spent
months close-boring, and now describes the
payable ground as “a compact area exceeding
500 acres, with an average depth of 274 ft.”
This he calculates to contain almost 22|
million c. yd., averaging an ounce under the
lb. of 70 p.c. oxide. Altogether the Corpora-
tion holds options over 2400 acres from the
Siamese Government, so additions to reserves
are possible if further boring offers induce-
ments. By cutting out the sides of the
leads, the proposition can be worked as a
high-grade one if necessity demands, for there
are 300 acres averaging over ljlb. A. C.
McLeod, who check-bored, supports Yetts’s
figures, and adds that Takuapa Valley is a
“very valuable property.” The proposed co.
is in a quarter-million shares of £1 each.
Malayan Corp. shareholders are offered
145,000, to be paid to ss. for a start, and
70.000 fully-paids and £20,000 of the cash
subscribed go to the vendor corporation. The
remaining 35,000 are to be held in reserve.
Two bucket dredges, together capable of an
average of 187,500 yds. per month, are pro-
posed, and reckoning on a fib. recovery and
the London tin-market at £l5O. the Malayan
Corp. directors anticipate an average annual
net profit of £70,000 over a 10-years’ life.
John Chinaman having captured the
world’s market for tungsten metajs with his
low-cost concentrates, King Island Scheelite
has to close down. The cash put up for
mine-plant and preliminary exes, was
£15,000, and the co. has roped in nearly
£90,000 from the sale of products, out of
which it has paid five divs. of Is. each. Cash
and concentrates still on hand amount to
£OOOO, which assures directors’ fees and Tom
Rollaston’s salary till the clouds roll by.
When buying tungsten products from Aus-
tralia during the war, John Bull did not pay
within 50 p.c. of the world’s market price.
Now, since the Commonwealth cannot con-
sume the local output, Alex. Campbell thinks
that, in return, Britain should give Aus-
tralian producers protection against cheap
yellow labor, or against countries that were
neutral or hostile during the war. This
might, however, prove to be a double-edged
sword, particularly in view of a move to-
wards expanding the Commonwealth’s trade
with China. It costs 355. per unit to get
scheelite at King Island, and other charges
add Bs. per unit. Since Asia’s cheaply-pro-
duced stuff has knocked the market ..price
down to only 265. 6d. per unit, the outlook
is not at all bright. W. J. Loring, who
nowadays runs scheelite shows in Cali-
fornia, is also having a rough passage, and
threatens to shut down, though his competi-
tor is the Canadian and not the yellow man.
It is the old story of high prices bringing
about over-production and keen competition.
Kingsgate Molybdenite is also feeling the
pinch, and a shut-down seems likelv.
*** " *
With two years’ supply of water stored,
Copes Creek Central (N..5.W.) looks for a
run of good earnings. No. 1 plant, on Cope’s
Creek, was during the drought juggled, by
means of a coffer dam and continuous pump-
ing of creek soakage, into the new No. 3
paddock, so that it can plough ahead
without hindrance. No. 3 plant has
been idle nearly all this year, the
ground proving too poor even for tribu-
tors. The drought left No. 4 stranded
at Bald Nob, but sufficient liquid is on
hand to commence tackling the good ground
there. The only dredge that could keep
going during the half-year to May 31 was
No. 2 at Skeleton Creek, which worked
three shifts daily. The six months’ cam-
paign closed with 162,000 c. yd. sluiced
for 72£ tons oxide, enabling the co. to net
£4718 and pay four divs. of Is. each (= 53 p.c.
on paid capital), leaving .£8053 to carry
forward, against £9335 brought in. Since No.
2 plant ran continuously, its costs were got
down to 9|d. per yd., compared with 10.042 d.
for the previous run; but the demands of
the worker may make a difference during the
current term. The co. is in an extremely
cosy corner: at the balance it owed only
£3347.^ and had liquid assets totalling £8342.
North Mt. Farrell (Tas.) has had a suc-
cessful half-year’s run. After providing
£2500 for taxation and depreciation, a net
profit of over £5OOO was made. Development
work in the lowest level (No. 5) has not
opened up any high-grade Jiand-picking ore
so far, but fair milling ore has been exposed
on both the Nos. 2 and 3 lodes. The junc-
tion of these two is now being approached,
and that is the zone of enrichment so favor-
able in the No. 4 level. Manager Victor places
reserves at 11,000 tons of fully developed
ore; no estimate has been made of probable
ore, which, on this property, is extensive.
During the six months 7840 tons crudes were
produced at a cost of 28s. Id. Overhead and
repair costs have been heavy during the
period, and general and realisation expenses
amounted to no less than Bs. lOd.
Mt. Victoria Struggle is the name of a
new co. which is out after gold at Alberton
(Tas.). No hint is given in the prospectus
as to how it acquired the strange moniker,
but since the co. starts with a paid capital
of only £l5OO, of which £7OO represents
scrip issued as paid, perhaps the name is
prophetic.
* * * *
A new industry has been established at
Devonport (Tas.). Round quartzite pebbles
are being collected and despatched to Mt.
Lyell for its tube mills. The local pebbles
are said to outclass the imported flints on
a cost-service basis.
* * * *
South Aus. is much worried about coal.
Unable to find any. of the best quality, within
its wide borders, it is at the mercy of inter-
state .supply, and therefore of any strike
from pit-mouth to Port Adelaide wharves.
Any economic disturbance sees Adelaide
trams and lighting and a hundred factories
looking very thoughtful, to say nothing of
the whole railway service of the State. The
Barwell Government is not given to the
State-ownership policy, but it has sent two
experts to Tasmania to examine the Dal-
mayne mine, which it has under offer.
* * * *
“Good Australian”: Four years ago I
drew attention in The Bulletin to the
increasing use in America of pulverised coal
as a fuel, and suggested the process should
be tried on Victorian brown coal. Quite
recently a firm using large quantities of
Newcastle coal in its factory imported from
the U.fe.A. an expert in the manufacture of
pulverised coal. This fuel-engineer describes
the local brown coal as being ideal for pul-
verising and he threatens to save his im-
porters idOUO a year on their fuel bill. The
low residue of ash in our best brown coal
makes it easy to pulverise. The coal is
first crushed, then passed through a ball
null. The grinding chamber is surrounded
by a screen of mesh, through which it is
drawn by fans: 95 p.c. must pass through
a sieve of 190 mesh. It is highly explosive,
and must be treated as tenderly as oil and
kept in iron tanks. The remarkable fea-
ture of the product is its high boiler effi-
ciency. It must be thoroughly dried so as
not to contain more than 1 p.c. moisture.
“Awaruite”: “Gouger” (B. 29/7/’2l)>
wonders how many fortunes ore-producers
have given away, especially to German ore-
buyers. I know of one. For many years
the Donaldson Bros., owning and operating
the Golden Point, Central Otago (M.L.)
sold their scheelite concentrates to the Mer-
ton combine, invariably receiving a premium
of 2s. per unit for their product, owing, it
was thought, to its exceptional purity. An
accidental assay explained everything • the
product carried soz. to 7oz. gold to the ton
Some hundreds of tons had been shipped
before the gold content was noticed. There-
after all concentrates were subjected to
cyanide treatment before being- passed on to
Fritz.


One db.rk
night.
pisguised, a.r»d bound West.
The. three trick , the half- Crown.
H.R.H Beautifully <fluiet in these p&ris,isrit ii,LouiS?*
odd Jots
/or tucker
‘w,. n n '
I c&n. give f ... > _
yer job jj-oundry-noih ,Qo
and pick yer horse."
fiis pick*
An Occident to his a*nd
y&ls<z, moustache .
to it adl A.gair\.
ROUGHIN’ IT.
“He took a cup of tea with the men and drank it black from a tin pannikin and dipped from a petrol tin He had enjoyed his trip outback more than he
could say.” —Memoirs of a touring Prince.


THE
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees.
New South Wales: Victoria : Queensland
The only Trustee Company having;
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Maekellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.0., Hon. H. Y. Braddon,
• M.L.C., F. B. S. Falkiner, James Kidd, W. H.
Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan Sinclair.
V. G. WATSON, JOHN MAIR,
Assistant Manager. Manager.
%
a.
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
Lamson
Store
Service
Co.,
102 Daking House,
Sydney.
Olderflcet, Collins Street. Melbourne.
N.Z. —John Proctor. 200 High St., Christchurch
W.A.-H. Little €r Co., 851 Hay St., Perth
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA!
CHARiIiNG ROOF GARDEN.
Management F. T. CHEJSSEMAN.
wmm
pi,ud" : SLICE
,-pO 1 ' v !&b~~i
THe
finest
TOBACCO
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed,
“EDGEWORTH”
f 4
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Griffith Taylor is taking a four months’
jaunt in the Dutch Indies and thereabouts
ALEX.
McKINLEY,
who lately sold
Melbourne Punch,
which he had
conducted for half
a lifetime.
before settling
down in the
McCaughey-
endowed chair of
geography in Syd-
ne y Uni. He
wants to have a
look at the interior
of Borneo and also
at the string of
islands off the west
coast of Sumatra,
where there are
alleged to be some
Polynesians still
surviving.
Death has robbed Henry Lawson of the
mother from whom he inherited some of his
rare qualities. In former days she con-
tributed to The Bulletin, and a collection
of her verses was published under the title
of “The Lonely Crossing.” She also edited
a woman’s magazine, The Dawn, and Louisa
Lawson was a name to conjure with when
her sex was fighting for the suffrage in N. S.
Wales. The fine old lady was 72 when the
call came. Henry is the eldest of her four
surviving children; the others are Charles,
Peter and Gertrude, now Mrs. O’Connor, a
war widow.
Jim McGowen had another birthday on the
16th —the 65th. The Labor party seems
such an old-established firm that it is
hard to realise that McGowen was one of
the original batch of N. S. Wales Labor
members. And that was only 30 years ago.
Lieut.-Governor Lennon, of Queensland,
whose gubernatorial salary will cease shortly,
is to have a sure and certain thousand a
year as President of the Leg. Council in
succession to the late Bill Hamilton, and
will also continue to be Lieut.-Governor.
The accident of this vacancy in the Council
chair solved a Labor-party problem. Inci-
dentally Lennon’s lucky star has guided his
declining years to that end of the House
which has an automatic elevator.
John Gellibrand, the new Vic. Chief of
Police, will get a hearty welcome from the
State’s J. Hops, who admire him for the
war-service which gained him the rank of
major-general, and the K.C.8., D.S.O. and
sundries in the way of decorations. He does
not know much about the details of detective
work, but he has had administrative
experience as Public Service Commissioner
in the Speck, and has proved that he can
GIBSON, of the Country Party.
organise, think quickly, get off the mark
promptly, handle large bodies of men suc-
cessfully, and reach his objective. With
Heathershaw as departmental secretary, he
should without- much effort get up to the line
reached by Steward, which was a long way
ahead of where Sainsbury marked time.
When criticising Iceberg Irvine’s Railway
Strike Suppression Bill in 1903, John Gavan
Duffy, then member for Dalhousie, said that
so drastic were the provisions that anybody
who dared put up in a smoking-carriage the
words '‘Strike here” could be pounced upon
and imprisoned without trial. It was thought
that John had reached the very outer bounds
of the probable when he gave that instance;
had he lived a few years longer he would
have noted something much more wonderful
—a High Court Judge (and a brother of his,
no less) downing tools and going on strike
because a careless Government had failed to
supply him with law-books.
Tomjo Ryan has suffered another blow in
the appointment of stolid old Matthew
Charlton as deputy-chief of the Federal
Labor party. After the last election Tomjo
had reasonable hopes of reducing Tudor .to
the rank of a private, but the old leader’s
sanity and long service told in the ballot,
and Ryan received a vote that must have
ruffled his vanity. The new development is
a further injury, and is generally regarded as
a significant whisper from the veterans of
the Caucus. Orthodox Laborites of the
Charlton, Tudor and Riley brand are not
greatly enamored of the pyrotechnic tricks
of Ryan, and it is not much of a compli-
pent. to him that he wields the greatest
influence among the kindergarten Utopians
of the party.
A. B. Paterson ('‘The Banjo”) has become
editor of Sydney Sportsman vice Tom Rose
(“Hotspur”), who retires at 70. Paterson
is a solicitor; but he hates chasing Costs.
When the Sydney Worker was young,
Hector Lamond was manager as well as
editor, and his commercial staff consisted
of an accountant and two juniors. Now
Lamond is Nationalist M.H.R. for Illa-
warra; one of the juniors is T. D. Mutch,
N.S.W. State Minister of Education, and
the other, Carl Akhurst, has become his
secretary.
The sick list in the Federal Parliament is
getting no smaller. Bowden, who brings a
bald head from Nepean, lately went to bed
with some form of nerve trouble, and he was
soon followed by Wienholt, the lion-hunter of
Moreton (Q.). Labor continues to be three
short, with Anstey and Page still queer, and
McDonald appearing so rarely that he is
almost a total absentee. The other day also
Frank Tudor had a recurrence of the
luemorrhage which laid him out a while back.
Tudor has missed about 20 sitting-days in 20
years, and it is likely that he will be per-
suaded to take a longish holiday.
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos the “Coochin” Bells
(B. 12/8/’2O). When James Byrnes, of
Parramatta, was Minister for Works in the
Martin Ministry (1870-2), a claim was
made by the family of Lieut. Bell for £lOOO
as compensation for a bit of land in or near
Macquarie-street, of which “Lootenant Bell,”
as Byrnes called him, had been deprived
many years before. The lieutenant, who
founded the family in Australia, was the
original owner of Belmont, now the pro-
perty of Captain Philip Charley, and was
buried on the estate. A son explored a
road from Richmond to Lithgow Valley;
and his name has been given to a village and
railway-station there.
A Sydney paper discovered an unusual
variety of British aristocrat aboard the
Nikko Maru last week. “She is young, has
very fair hair and brown eyes, is 4ft. Sin.
high and wears a pale pink frock reaching
little below the knees, and on the latter a
pearl-studded coronet 21 inches in diameter.
Lady Molly Howard is her name and she
is a peeress in her own right.” Some slight
objections are that the title is hot that of
a peeress, but of the daughter of an earl,
marquis or dhke; that there are only half-
a-dozen peeresses in their own right, and
none of them is named Howard; and that
the only. Lady Molly Howard known to
Debrett is 74. A tremendous number of
people favor the incognito of Howard—
due possibly to the fact that it is the
name of three immense families. The clas-
sic example is a gentleman mentioned in one
of Macaulay’s essays who adopted it in
place of Bugg. He was the first of the
Norfolk Howards.
Chas. McCauley, who wasn’t the kind of
sport that merely owns or backs racehorses,
.died at. Wollongong (N.S.W.) lately, aged
87, having been 85 years an Australian. On
one occasion, just prior to the running of a
race, the old sport, then 72, was given the
whisper that his jockey had sold his nag’s
chance, and he promptly decided to ride the
horse himself. He didn’t win, but he had
the satisfaction of having a run for bis
money.
Alfred Downward, who beat £ £ Smith for
Mornington 2.6 years ago, and has held the
seat ever since, will have the fight of his life
in a few weeks. He has joined the Hay-
seeders’ party, but that may not be much
help to the amiable septuagenarian. When
Downward first entered the House Upward
was. Sergeant-at-Arms, and the wits had an
inninge—John Gavan Duffy, for instance,
who said that the House had both an Upward
and a Downward tendency, and that it
needed a strong yet nimble man like Deakin
to keep it on the level.
F W. Birrell, president of the Trades
and Labor Council in S. Aus., and secretary
of the A.L.P.’s branch in that State, has
resigned both posts to join the staff of the
Herald, the Labor daily in Adelaide. Bir-
rell had a safe seat in Parliament awaiting
him, but as things go he prefers journalism.
‘Mrs. Lance Rawson” and a family-tree:—
“Centurion” (B. 5/8/’2O) makes a mistake re
Marmaduke Wood. It was his brother who was in
Queensland, and who usually went by the name
of “Lord Wood.” As a matter of fact, there were
many Woods in Queensland, all high-born and reck-
less. Theodore, of AVatamata, ran through three
fortunes with assistance. He died in the
Thursday Island Hospital without a bean. Willie,
Theodore s brother, -alwa3 7 s a gentleman, clever,
musical and a good fellow, helped himself out at
Virginia, his own place, near G.vmpie, 1883-4.
Marmaduke s brother, “Lord AVood,” went through
two fortunes, representing £40,000 or so each, and
between whiles was any old thing, from jackeroo to
judge’s associate. While very much under the
weather, he was offered, by a Russian Grand Duke,
who had been at Eton with him, the management
of a horse-breeding farm in Siberia, where he was
to have everything he could wish for, except com-
pany. I met him soon after his return, when he
described the place as a veritable palace, set in a
fairyland of the Frozen North. His engagement was
for five years, at £lOOO a year, and with the
option of a holiday when he’d been there two.
He was on the holiday when I struck him, and he
gave a great account of the farm where they bred
the jet-black horses for the Tzar’s use. He did a
second term, and returned to Queensland in the
late 'nineties. Again on his uppers, he took on
wharf-lumping. “Lord Wood” was a fine, generous
gentleman, nobody’s enemy but his own. There is
hardly an old outback deadbeat who would not
raise his hat at mention of the name. He was
thrown from his horse and killed on the Nebo-road
near Mackay a few years ago.
J- A. Lyons, who resigned from the Speck’s
Parliament to unsuccessfully wrestle with
Colonel Bell for the Darwin seat in the
Reps., has resumed his seat and the leader-
ship of the State Labor party, displacing
Ogden on a caucus ballot. The party also
ARTHUR
HACKETT,
for 20 years
chief engineer
of Cadbury's,
who has selected
the firm’s
factory-site in
the Speck, and
is staying for
two years to
organise the
business.
made a change in
whips: James
Allen Guy (son of
the ex-Senator)
displaces Ben
Watkins, who has
held the job for 10
or a dozen years.
James Belton is in
his old place as
deputy-chairman.
Having understudied George ITiginbotham,
a really great man, over 30 years ago,
Donald Maekinnon, Vic. Minister for Lands,
has set himself up as a judge of public men.
Making a platform at South Yarra a judg-
ment seat, he told the dames of the
A.W.N.L. that in his opinion Premier Law-
son (Vic.) and Premier Theodore (Banana-
land) were the only present-day “big men”
among Australian politicians. Incidentally,
Theodore also made a deep impression on
Holman. But, then, Holman at any rate
wasn’t the sort of- politician to regard a
large capacity for making deficits as dimin-
ishing the “bigness” even of a Treasurer.
Willie Watt, who struck rather than be
Hughes’s telegraph messenger, was to have
left Liverpool earlier this week by the
Baltic —the liner that took Mannix across
the herring-pond. Up to the present no
announcement has been made that William
is to be forbidden to land at New York
because of the wigging he gave Woodrow
Wilson at the A.N.A. luncheon in 1915 for
sending a congratulatory message to ex-
Kaiser Bill on his birthday. The Amur-
kans in Melbourne have never forgiven Watt
for describing their President on that occa-
sion as an “anaemic, feminised, closet philo-
sopher, who presides over this otherwise
great nation, and who at the same time is
fishing on both sides of the Atlantic for
notoriety and for dollars.”
Henry Bull and Co.’s long-established busi-
ness in York-street having been acquired oy
D. and W. Murray, Henderson Smith has
crossed over from Perth to Sydney to run the
amalgamated concern. Smith, who first intro-
duced the big Adelaide firm of Murrays to
Sydney a dozen years ago, belongs to the
new order of business men —the sort that
prefers tea to whisky—and his hobby is
rifle-shooting. He lost a fine son on Gallipoli.
George Dean, the Adelaide stock-and-
station agent who has given all his spare
time to soldiering from boyhood, has been
transferred at last to the retired list with
the honorary rank of Bi’ig.-General. He
has worked up through all the ranks since
his start in the S. Aus. Mounted Rifles in
1877. A fine rifle-shot himself, he was the
first sec. of the Commonwealth Council of
Rifle Associations, has for some years been
its chairman, and was in command of the
1913 team that went to Bisley. In the war
he was a colonel of Light Horse on Gallipoli,
and enteric nearly beat him; after which
he was put in command of transports. All
his five sons and his only son-in-law enlisted
too.
The Windsors are all pretty good on
horseback. The Prince did nearly 50 miles
outback one day last week and his younger
brother Henry had the luck to hit the win-
ning goal for Cambridge in this year’s polo
match against Oxford. It was a close thing,
the score being three all till extra time was
given to get a decision. The same youth
won the tent-pegging at Olympia (London)
on Whit Monday, carrying off all the pegs.
It was the first time a member of the royal
family had ever been allowed to take part
in a public competition. The change is, of
course, significant. The royal family has in
these days got to come right down among the
people and justify themselves there on hard
utilitarian grounds.
The first Australian to be ordained a
priest was the late Dean O’Connell, born at
Hobart Town in 1825. He entered St.
Mary’s seminary in Sydney at the age of 13
and was ordained by Archbishop Folding in
1848.
SIDE WHISKERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Side whiskers such as once men wore,
The curly and the straight,
Are said to be in vogue once more
Which long were out of-date.
Dead fashions, well beloved of yore,
Come back to them who wait.
A faded photo pictures me
With whiskers on my face;
Ridiculous they seem to be,
Absurdly out of place—
Strange products of the vanity
That rules our human race.
Full thirty years or more have flown ;
Time hath a restless wing—
I would that long ago I’d known
What changes Time would bring;
Hut have I any wiser grown
Since whiskers were the thing?
What dreams I had when from each gill,
Which now is shaven clean,
A growth of plumage, curled “to kill,’
Enriched the social scene!
The life I’ve lived for good or ill
Is not what might have been.
What health was mine! What appetites
To gratify I had !
All gone the fleshly, fierce delights
That made my spirit glad ;
The pauses now between my bites
Are long, and somewhat sad.
I wonder was that bygone game
Its cost of candle worth ?
Some have their fun, some make a name,
And then comes “earth to earth.”
Some chase the will-o’-wisp called Fame,
And some the gadfly Mirth.
Well, after all, one’s mis-spent youth
Leaves memories that last;
One sheds no tear, one asks no ruth
Who smiles upon a Past
At which, to tell the solemn truth,
He ought to stare aghast.
Why gaze aghast? Oft mortals doin’,
Who loudly preach and pray,
Regret, perchance, in silence sour
Their sin-time’s slow decay.
The sweetness of a godless hour
Oft gladdens me to-day.
He knows not what is wrong or right
Who curbs each wanton whim,
Whose discourse of the Blessed Light
Is ever dark and dim:
No laughing visions come at night
To cheer the heart of him.
My whiskered youth will ne’er return,
Its careless course is run;
Delights that saints profess to spurn
I’m sorry now to shun;
But soberly I live and learn,
And what is done is done.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


%
4%
r*>
m
/
***
*~m
'Vj*
m
/
j
■N.
f
r
kjß
AUSTRALIA'S
national
SHORE
In the crowded city street, by the lone
camp fire the never failing friend
of eveiy man who smokes—a cool
tobacco with a flavour famed throughout
a continent.
CUT FLAKE OR MIXTURE
ALSO IN PLUG FORM
6413
4*
CIVIC
THE
STANDARD
PIPE
0 o »


OA-C-
□ C-A'C
ovo
NIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND
c-a-c- LUZ^
BRAND
BRASS, COPPER. NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES i
VICTORIA—CoIIins House. Collins Street, Melbourne -
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, Sydney -
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane
Phone Central 1995
Phone City 2677
Phone 2382
c>vo
Hjlpc-A-c-
jig?
OVD
%w
NEW SERIAL PUBLICATIONS,
all One Shilling per part.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING.
By H. H. Simmons and A. H. Avery. Right
up to date. 1000 illustrations. 14 parts.
NEW POPULAR EDUCATOR.
Entirely re-written. Art, Literature, Science.
Mathematics, History, etc. Fully illus-
trated. 48 parts.
ENGINEERS’ HANDBOOK.
By Prof. H. Adams. Thoroughly revised,
enlarged, up to date. 16 parts.
The Practical Woodworker.
A complete guide to woodworking, with
thousands of illustrations. 32 parts.
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS AND BOOKSTALLS
CASSELL’S, PUBLISHERS,
Melbourne, Sydney and London.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management v-f Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
MINCHINBURY
Holy Church has some very clumsy ser-
vants these days; but the champion in the
class seems to be Bishop Dwyer, of
Wagga. A nun, Miss Partridge, alias Sister
Ligouri, got tired of being “enclosed,” and
left, sending in a letter of resignation ; and
this bishop boiled over and had a war-
rant issued for her arrest. Now, a
wise bishop would have been glad, partly
because a nun should leave now and then ;
in fact, should be alleged to leave even if
she doesn’t, just to dissipate the story that
such people are under illegal compulsion. He
would also have acknowledged the letter and
expressed a hope that she wasn’t short of a
A LITTLE THING TO TAKE HIM OUT.
“Old Gadsome has a new runabout.”
“Oh, the old. wretch —and he swore never
to marry again!”
tram-fare. Thereby he would have made the
ex-nun fall utterly flat as an advertisement or
an asset, and strenuous Protestants of the
old Dill Macky type would have been hurt
and have viewed her almost with disgust.
* * * *
“Georges le Blank”: I am reminded of
this by a reference in the cables to the execu-
tion at Stamboul, a few days ago, of an
old friend of mine. I do not know what
procedure is followed in the hangings con-
ducted in Turkey now that they are under
Allied auspices, but during my compulsory
stay there (1915-1918) the apparatus
consisted of three poles or sticks, which were
held together at one end by means of an
iron bolt, and stood on the other end, form-
ing a tripod. The rope passed through a
ring let into the centre pole at the top. A
box and a piece of string were also neces-
sary properties. The principal actor made
his positively last appearance clad in a long
white nightshirt, to the front of w’hich was
attached a placard, whereon could be read
in big Turkish characters his name, his
father’s name, place of birth, etc., crime and
sentence of the man about to be hanged. He
was made stand on the box, and one of his
arms was tied to the nearest pole to prevent
any undue struggling on his part later on.
This done and the noose placed in position,
the box was taken from under his feet and
he strangled. I’d prefer strychnine myself.
* * * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Wimbourne, at
Mulgoa, one of the few
remaining historic homes
of N. S. Wales, has been
destroyed by fire. It was
the old home of George
Cox, who was the fourth
son of the pioneer Wil-
liam Cox, of the N. S.
Wales Corps, tvho came
to Sydney with his family
in the ship Minerva in
1800, the Cove of Cork
being his port of depar-
ture. The Minerva was
freighted wit li Iri s h
“rebels,” most of whom,
by the way, were de-
ported without trial.
George and Henry Cox
pioneered Mulgoa, an d
built a cottage, which
still stands. George in
1824 married Eliza,
daughter o f Archi-
bald Bell, who founded
the “Co ochi n’V Bell
family of Queensland,
noted recently in connec-
tion with the Prince’s -
visit. In that same year
Wimbourne was built,
one storey at first, a
second afterwards, with
wide balconies and ver-
andahs on three sides.
On George’s death the
property passed to his son, George Henry,
of Burrundulla, an old-time Parliamentarian,
who sold to P. C. Hewitt, one of Jim
Tyson’s legatees; and on his death Win-
bourne became a country boarding-house.
Another little ad. for an ancient race:—
I rise to support the statement that the Spanish
immigrant becomes a good Australian. About 20
years ago Lieut. Parer’s father-in-law, the late J. P.
Carolin, of Bendigo, brought a good number of
Spanish gardeners to work a bit of land he had at
White Hills, Bendigo. These Spaniards very soon
revolutionised market-gardening methods about
Bendigo, especially tomato-growing, which has since
become a valuable industry there and at Echuca and
other places. Before their advent tomato-growing
was left to the Chinese gardeners, who let
the plants grow as they liked and bear when they
liked. The Spanish growers tied the plants to stakes
and. by a system of pinching out the lateral branches,
confined the plants to a single stem, and forced
them into bearing two or three months earlier than
the Chinese could manage. Soon people saw that
the Spaniards were making good money, and then
every suitable piece of land about Bendigo was
planted with tomatoes. Spanish methods were fol-
lowed, and as much as £lOOO an acre was taken
in one .year off land that was reckoned valueless
before the Spaniards showed what could be done
with it. Then a big demand set in from the sauce
factories, and now thousands of Australians are
making good incomes just through following the
lead of the Spanish growers. These Bendigo
Spaniards were good and obliging neighbors, but a
trifle fiery in the temper when things went wrong.
Some of them were ardent socialists, Ferrer, after-
wards shot in Spain for taking part in the Socialist
movement, was for a time one of the Spanish settlers
at Bendigo, and was highly esteemed by the Aus-
tralians who knew him.
“Callan Park” solves a difficult problem :
My one desire is to improve the position of all
parties to the ex-Sister Ligouri affair.
In Group A we have Rev. and Mrs. Touehell, ex-
Priest Enright and Mr. R. E. Barton. These good
people have, so to speak, taken delivery of Miss
Partridge, and are responsible for her support. They
are not wealthy, and motor-car hire, the rent of
concealment-places and other expenses inseparable
from the handling of escaped nuns have risen of
late years. Once the lady’s case is dropped by the
press she must cease to be a reproductive asset from
the church-plate point of view, and develop into
a liability comparable to a branch railway-line in a
drought area.
Even more unfortunate is the situation of those
in Group B. The parties chiefly affected here are:
(1) Bishop Dwyer and (2) Mr. Minahan, M.L.A. The
Bishop and Mr. Minahan are threatened with legal
proceedings. The one is attached to the State by
the sheet-anchor of a wealthy diocese, the other
by the kellick of a mammoth boot-store. Both
must remain—wealthy and helpless as the Spanish
galleons of old —to be sitting shots for the legal
gunners of the ex-Sister Ligouri Rescue Committee.
What is the solution of an intolerable situation?
The remedy lies in the hands of one man. Mr.
W. M. Hughes. Ex-Sister Ligouri must be deported
under the War Precautions Act.
It may be said that even so she can proceed
against Bishop Dwyer et at. in absentia. Very true.
But the Bishop, upon being served with process, will
apply for security for costs, on the ground that
the plaintiff is a person resident without the juris-
diction. On whom will the obligation of finding
that security devolve ? Upon the already sorely-
tried shoulders of Rev. Mr. and Mrs. Touehell, ex-
Priest Enright and Mr. R. E. Barton. And yet,
such is the iniquity of our legal system, if they
attempt to discharge their obligation they will ipso
facto become guilty of champerty.
But, above all, there are the interests of Sister
Ligouri herself to be considered. She is said to favor
a trip to Ireland. To arrive in Ireland as an
escaped nun and no more would mean her ruin.
THE SEX OF CLOTHES.
THE GIRL : “I think her costume's too mas-
culine, don’t you?”
THE BOY : “Not a hit. It’s quite feminine —
it’s the very last word.”
But to sail for the old sod as a deported escaped
nun! Well, read the cables about Archbishop Man-
nix. Hours before the destroyer came alongside every
true Irish heart (whose possessor had the requisite
train fare) would be speeding to the Seashore to
welcome her. She would land in England (of course,
under protest) a modern Joan of Arc. It is easy
to picture the rest—the weeping crowds at the
quay-side, the greetings in Gaelic, the futile efforts
of the Sassenach police to cope with the uproar, the
lucrative offers from cinema magnates, the heroine’s
betrothal and brilliant marriage to some eminent
movie star, even Chaplin himself.
If W. M. Hughes has one gleam of imagination,
one spark of common manhood, he will act, and act
soon. The representatives of at least one Turkish
party signed the Peace Treaty last week, and the
leaders of the other 57 belligerent factions may
follow suit any day now. Should he have. any
lingering doubts as to his powers, let him turn to
his C.L.R. and peruse the judgments in Pankhurst v.
Kieran and Farey v. Burvett.
* * * *
“Derwent”: The curtain has been rung
down on the Ratten case, which has been
“on” in the comic opera State for four years,
and both sides of the Tasmanian Assembly
were hilarious when they met after having
been made acquainted with the finding of
the Chief Justice. The sting was removed
from the motion of censure which hinged
almost entirely on the treatment meted out
to the popular idol by a wicked Government
that had provided the Medical Council with
money to prosecute Dr. Ratten, while leaving
him to pay his own expenses in the Supreme
Court. The Premier, accused of “ratting”
on Ratten, explained that he had to pay the
exes, of the Medical Council to enable it to
carry out the provisions of the Medical Act,
especially when there was a charge of ob-
taining a diploma by fraud, but he could not
guarantee the expenses of the doctor without
the consent of Parliament. However, he
had done the next best thing by appointing
Ratten for a further term as Surgeon-Super-
intendent of the Hobart Hospital, and had
increased his screw. The C.J., after con-
suiting his colleagues, refused the applica-
tion of the Medical Council to have a Com-
mission appointed to hear evidence in
Illinois and Texas, and it now remains to
be seen whether the B.M.A. will raise the
blockade on the Hobart Hospital, or dig
themselves in on a new front line. Any-
thing may happen in comic opera—Dr.
Ratten and Judge Ewing may even swap
places, and the B.M.A. be commandeered to
run Parliament.
• * * *
“Sixenate” : In an old mansion overlook-
ing Berry’s Bay, in Sydney Harbor, and
named by its occupants “The Abode of
Peace,” there is an odd community of fad-
dists, who keep house on communistic lines,
and have solved the problem of H.C.L. after
their own queer fashion. Shirlow, secretary
of the Chidley committee and the deceased
semi-nude philosopher’s chief disciple, is
boss of the place; and the Chidley
dietary principles are religiously fol-
lowed. Meatherington, the man who has
been fighting the N. Sydney Council over the
right to hold public meetings in St. Leonards
Park, is one of the household, which includes,
amongst others, a University man w T ho lost
a professorship owing to his anarchical
beliefs, and a Russian who is writing a
magnum opus on philosophy. In truth, a
strange crowd.
“Spare Corp.”: She was florid but fluent,
and she thought the Repat. might help her
to trace her missing husbdnd. “How long
is it since you saw him last?” asked a sym-
pathetic official. “Three weeks,” she hissed.
“It is three weeks to-day since I married
the brute.”
From the office chaplain :—■
The centenary of Charter Masonry was celebrated
with the ceremony so dear to the Freemasonish mind
at Sydney Town Hall on Thursday last. Not every
man is able to take Masonry seriously. There have
been cases of Australian citizens who emerged from
their initiation in a boiling rage, considering that
they had been tricked to no useful purpose into
intimate association with social undesirables. For
Masonry is not fashionable in Australia as it is
in England—notably in the West End of London
and at the Universities. There, many become Free-
masons for the express purpose of advancing them-
selves in the world of fashion; and in Ed. Vll.’s
day it was a very good card to play. Masonry
died in this sense, so far as Australia' is concerned,
when the English regiments, whose officers first
brought it here at the beginning of last century,
were withdrawn.
To the true modern Mason the craft is a sort
of religion ; and of course both its ceremonial and
its ethics derive from the Church. Yet it began
as a mediasval Guild, which is what Freemasons
mean when they say that their forerunners built
most of the great cathedrals of Europe. And it
degenerated at one time into a mere excuse for
revelry. In the beginning of the 18th century
Anthony Sayer, Grand Master of Masons, used to
assemble with a few friends 'at the Goose and
Gridiron ale-house i’n St. Paul’s Churchyard, London,
and drink deep and long. Sayer and the four
little Lodges under him were, nevertheless, destined
to revive the old usages of the Order, and sow the
seeds of the tremendous organisation which now
exists all oven the world. During the century which
HER RECORD.
“I heard you were out on the links yester-
day. What did you go round in?”
“My new Scotch plaid. It fits perfectly
splendid , dear.”
followed the drawing up of the Masonic Constitu-
tion by Saver, the Vatican viewed the craft with
suspicion, and four successive Bulls were launched
at it. It was said in the thirties of last century
that emissaries of Rome had become Masons in order
to learn its mysteries and traitorously disclose them.
They could easily have become Masons without
finding anything to disclose. For there is indeed
nothing thrilling to reveal, Masonry being what
the mostly rather tired members say it is—a tre-
mendous benefit society with frills on it.
(Continued on page 18.)
THE COMING OF SPRING.
[For The Bulletin.]
The grey gums wave above the creek,
The wattles turn to'yellow gold;
And, in between, a house as meek
As Moses shelters from the cold.
It is a simple house of wood,
With wrinkled iron on its head;
A house of utter hardihood,
Where honest folk are housed and fed.
It sits like Freedom on a rock;
And round the piles that are its bas
The brown soil breeds a happy flock
Of blossoms laughing in their place.
Up the low hill the morning’s tears
Make diamonds on the growing peas
Where white with lime the fowl-house rears
Its head among the little trees.
A humble place scarce worth a rhyme,
Though round it parrot plumes are gay;
But Spring comes here—arid just in time—
For every hen has laid to-day!
N.S.W.
MARY.


£2±
m
gK :
o.
?!
u
i
Trouble!
All you n eed
isa screwdriver^
Goodyear Straight - Side Tyres
Easy to apply and to remove
THE GOODYEAR Straight-Side Tyre was designed primarily
to take the drudgery and delay out of tyre-changing. In
the new type of tyre all security bolts are rendered
unnecessary. The straight-side rim is so constructed that there is
no need to stretch the tyre over the edge to apply or remove it.
This simplicity of operation with straight-side rims and Goodyear Straight-
Side Tyres is one of their chief recommendations. By using them you will
escape trouble and nuisance—avoid annoying and wasted hours of striving
with refractory covers.
Goodyear Straight-Side Tyres are easy to put on. Simply slip the tyre on
to the rim with the bare hands. All that is needed, then, is a screwdriver
for a trifling operation on the rim, occupying but a few seconds.
Goodyear Straight-Side Tyres are easy to take off. The “split rim” is first
demounted from the wheel. The locking device is opened and the abutting ends
pushed past each other. This action makes,the rim diameter smaller and allows
the rim to be lifted easily off the tyre.
Why not, then, use Goodyear Straight-Side Tyres, and travel trouble-free,
care-free and confident?
A strong point in favor of the straight-side rim is the condition
at the base. It is like the foundation of a house or monument. A wide
foundation means more security and better support. It results also in
the deflection being greater at the top of the tyre, where it can stand it,
rather than at the bottom, where it cannot stand it. The swaying of a
beaded-edge tyre on the narrow rim causes not only deflection, but heat
and therefore damage to the fabric or canvas.
Some other advantages
LARGER AIR SPACE—This in-
duces greater comfort and greater
durability—and greater durability
means greater mileage.
THE ON-AIR CIJRE—This is ac-
tually a double cure, scientifically
designed to make covers normal in
shape when in use. Incidentally,
tyres cure better on the wider
straight-side rim.
SAFETY —A high degree of se-
curity obtained through the braid-
ed piano wires in each base of the
tyre, and no bolts required. The
greater air capacity is also a con-
tributing factor.
BETTER MADE TYRES—They
are particularly built according to
newest methods devised through
the constant expenditure of thou-
sands of pounds for experimental
purposes.
FREEDOM FROM TROUBLE—
Fabric breaks and bursts quite
minimised. Side-slips or skidding
avoided through the Goodyear all-
weather tread and the wider tread
surface permitted by the wider
rim width.
\
sdv
fs
dvf
E
mul


Exclusive
Stewart Dawson’s
Outrivalling in Variety and Splendor the
Richest Displays of the World’s great
Commercial Centres.
Stewart Dawson’s rare Diamonds are set
in Pure Platinum, and are without doubt
the last word in Quality and Value.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS.
Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
PERTH (Aust.).
REGENT STREET (LONDON).
STEWART DAWSON’S
Largest Jewellers of the Empire.
D 9925 —New Design
Single-Stone
Diamond Circle
Brooch, Platinum,
and 15-ct. Gold,
£7/10/-
KB24 —Beautiful
Diamond Set Circle
Brooch, £25.
KlB2—Elegant Design Fine White Diamonds,
set in Platinum and 15ct. Gold, £2l.
KlSo—Choice Design Platinum Faced Dia-
mond Set Brooch, £B/10/-
KlB3—Artistic Design Fine White Diamonds,
set in Platinum and 15ct. Gold, £2O.
KSlo—Fine Quality
Diamond Set Circle
Brooch, Platinum
and 15ct. Gold,
£3O.
K 997—Dainty De-
sign Diamond Set
Circle Brooch,
Platinum and
15ct. Gold,
£B/10/-
Mounting's
Rare Diamonds.
Call at any ©f the Stewart Dawson
Establishments and inspect their beauti-
ful assortment of Diamond Ring Designs,
which is continually being added to.
Remember high-grade stones are a per-
manent investment.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS.
Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRIST-
CHURCH, DUNEDIN (N.Z.),
HATTON GARDEN (LONDON).
STEWART DAWSON’S
Write for Latest Catalogue.
“D.E.” : It intrigued me to read that the
escaped nun tripped into court “with her hair
cut in the Buster Brown fashion.” Isn’t,
it the one touch of nature that explains the
whole thing?
* * * *
“Werrimee” : After putting in three years
out at the back o’ Bourke, the thought of
Australia going dry makes me feel hopeless.
The inlands carry a big floating population,
and on maiiv far-back roads the only habita-
tion is the wayside pub. It often marks an
outpost of civilisation, which gradually
attracts people to settle in the vicinity.
Close up these places, and imagine the
hundreds of miles of inhospitable roads to
Farther-Out and the Back o’ Beyond ! There’d
certainly be some migration from parts where
it is particularly desirable to attract settlers.
Even the reduction of licenses did great harm
from the traveller’s point of view. Besides
giving a few houses a monopoly of a business
that hitherto supported many, it eliminated
competition, and. a roaring bar-trade assured,
many of the pubs became uncivil to boarders
and lodgers, and looked upon woifien and
children as a nuisance. More pubs, not less,
the travelling public and the people of Out-
back want; but the Law should insist that
they be respectable accommodation houses,
not mere drinking saloons. If half the pubs
in Sydney and Brisbane were transferred
and scattered about the Backblocks, it would
be a great national improvement: and I am
sure settlement on the land would be simpli-
fied and advanced.
FOR BETTER, FOR WORSE.
REJECTED SUITOR (furiously): "Oh, well,
there are others just as good!”
THE GIRL ( calmly ): “Better. I accepted
one of them yesterday!”
“Gunner”: General Booth, of the Salv’-
arrny, was scandalised to find in Aus-
tralia “a growing antipathy to work,
quite distinct from ambition to be well
paid for work done.” But why “in
Australia”? Australians no doubt seem
to loaf —to “lean up against posts,” as
the old gibe has it—but that is largely
because they enjoy about the best outdoor
climate in the world. When an Australian
takes a spell, or a holiday, he doesn’t have
to hurry into a room and .sit in front of a
fire. If he is resting for half an hour he
sits down on top of his job, and if he is
taking the day off he goes to a beach or a
cricket match or the races. The work-
dodgers of Britain are none the less hostile
to toil because they do their loafing behind
closed doors instead of in public. In France
it was a fairly common thing to see Diggers
“SALVE NON HALVE.”
“ Dearest, I wish you would try another sort of lip-salve. My doctor tells me I have a
touch of painter’s colic.”
’who were temporarily out'of the line giving a
hand to British Labor Battalions for the
mere love of movement. The Aussies’
camps, trenches and dugouts had an excel-
lent name on all the fronts for that perfec-
tion of detail which is the outcome of solid
graft. And every employer with overseas
experience agrees that the Australian —so long
as his mostly foreign-bossed union allows
him to work—is as strenuous and faithful a
toiler as any in the world. It would be
odd if he were not, since willingness to work
is, in most cases, a mere matter of the
capacity to do so; and Australian conditions
are all in favor of a well-fed, well-developed
and energetic race.
* * * * .
“Mirza” : One would imagine that an ex-
pert knowledge of midwifery would be of no
use in the army; but up near the lines the
R M.O. was frequently called upon to help a
case along. An Aussie M.B. got such an
invitation one night, and, having hastily col-
lected some dressings, gloves, a mask and a
bottle of chlo.. he set out over the shell-holes
to a farm where, in the flickering candle®
light, another French soldier was to be born.
He arrived in time to give an anaesthetic and
deliver the goods in orthodox fashion. A
little later the mother started to revive, and,
as she seemed restless and a trifle excited,
the M.O. mustered his best French, and,
in an endeavor to reassure her, whispered,
“Tres bon garqon, madame; must be a ten-
pounder.” But she was too dopey to realise
that her troubles were over. After a couple
of minutes he again said, “Tres bon garqon,
madame.” “Mon Dieu.” gasped the poor
woman. “Trois garqons! C’est la guerre!”
and, womanlike, promptly fainted.
* * * *
An old ’un recalls some meals :
The art of dining was set on a firm basis during
the Melbourne land boom of 1886-91. Before that
era the late Victorians had two dishes and one
sauce. In 1880 or thereabouts, Noel Lacaton opened
a cheap French cafe where one got an excellent
luncheon for Is. 6d.. consisting 'of hors-d’oeuvre,
a filet of fish or a real French cutlet, with Gruyere
cheese, a demi-tasse of black coffee and vin ordinaire
ad lib., half this year’s vintage and the other half
Yan Yean. With success the Lacatons moved from
opposite the Melbourne Hospital- to an old shop
lower down in Lonsdale-street. The luncheon
remained the same, but the dinners served in the
cabinets particuliers upstairs were the first scientific
meals Melbourne diners ever ate. Lacaton was his
own chef, and he has only had one equal in Mel-
bourne —-Calyx Denat, still alive and retired. About
this time J. F. Gunsler had done fairly well in
Gunsler’s Cafe, now the Royal Cafe, and to be
delicensed at Christmtis. Gunsler moved his home
and fitted it up in true Parisian style—-with gilt
and mirrors and sofias. He asked me to the first
dinner cooked there* and it was fit for Heliogabalus
or Nebuchadnezzar. Meanwhile Lacaton moved to Gar-
ton’s Hotel’ in Swauston-street, and the tone vanished
because the new rich found they could get better
food better cooked there than at home in Toorak.
The Maison Doree felt the competition very keenly
of two new rivals* especially the French Club (founded
by the Denis Bros, and Dr. J. G. Beaney). Gustave
l’essier was our chef, and of the culinary art he
was a master. The next step forward was taken
when Halasy and Denat opened the Gat'd Anglais,
just above the Argus office. Here the young boule-
vardiers learnt how to eat gracefully and luxuri-
ously. The Cafe Anglais could provide a diner
d deux equal in every way to any I have eaten in
Paillard’s, Joseph’s, Maxim’s, Marguerey’s, the Cafe
de Paris, or Muller’s in Paris, in those days easily
ahead of all other restaurants. By that time I had
dined at Delmonico’s in New York, Krasnapolsky’s
in Amsterdam, Cafe Riche in Brussels, and Kettner’s
in Soho, not to say the Gambrinus, the Cafe Royal
and Romano s in London. Calyx Denat moved into
the old Melbourne Herald office next the Royal
Arcade in Little Collins-street, and for several years
one could buy as excellent a dinner there as any-
when-e on earth. After Gunsler left for Sydney, his
cafe was taken over by Edlinger and Goetz," two
Austrian bakers from Fitzroy, who renamed it the
Vienna Cafe. Now it has been recalled The Aus-
tralia, and is run by a gentleman of the Greek
persuasion, the powerful representative of the all-
pervading Greek community which sells Melbourne
its steak-a de oyst in the highways and byways of
that badly-fed city. Ernest Morin, who married
Miss Lacaton, made a genuine try to give his ’pat-
rons good food properly cooked. But Melbourne
has relapsed into barbaric customs such as eating
and enjoying mutton-broth and roast-beef, and it
is extremely difficult to get cosmopolitan cookerv.
Of course one can always get the good old stodgv
Hinglish fare at Scott’s and Menzies’, solid, plentiful
and always the same. Most of us old buffers fore-
gather at Fasoli’s; yet there is no place where one
can enjoy international cookery such as you can
find in any big American city, and that "greatest
delight in feeding, a cosmopolitan breakfast, cannot
be bought. It will come in time when, as part of
the sex-war, all girls are compelled to learn how
to cook entrees, fricassees and souffles. From the
riz-tafel of Java with its 40 dishes to the list of
25 sandwiches available in a Dutch or Danish
restaurant is a long distance, and in between there
is room for us dwellers in this outpost of Empire
to study and improve the best of all useful arts—
the art of eating.
Hellis ’ (London) : Mrs. Margaret
Sanger, the little American woman who runs
the Birth-Control movement in her own
country, and gives instructions in the use
of contraceptives, is in London at present.
She is supposed to be holiday-making; but
a few weeks ago she started off by lecturing
to a crowded audience in the Caxton Hall,
under the aegis of the Malthusian Society.
Since then she has been inundated with
requests from women’s leagues, societies and
guilds, for an informal lecture, with demon-
stration of some of the methods. Uncle
Sam thrust her into prison not so long ago;
but she was released after a hunger-strike,
and the Judge- who had committed her
attended her next lecture and announced
himself a convert to Neo-Malthusianism. I
heard her at a meeting of the British Society
for the Study of Sex Psychology, an un-
obtrusive little circle established for research,
and including some of the finest minds in
England. She is a petite woman, full of
personal magnetism, and with a genius for
getting the maximum effect out of the
simplest clothes. Among the audience were
Ettie Rout and her husband. Fred Horna-
brook. Ettie kept quiet till everyone else
had finished asking questions and making
observations. Then she said a few words
which made the audience sit up. The others,
though speaking without much reserve, took
care to use quite the naicest phraseology.
Ettie just used plain Australian and talked
facts.
“Naming”: He came up to me on the Mos-
man boat, his small pink face wet with rain:
a cold, childish figure very ill-clad. 1 refused
chocolates, but a note of sympathy in piy
voice was fatal: his insistence that 1 should
buy became clamorous. “Take three penny
ones,” he'urged. Then: “Toss you wliethc-
you give me tuppence or fourpenee for them."
I made it fourpenee without a struggle.
Then he sat beside me, and discussed with a
Huent tongue what he liked for Ascot, tried
to sell me a two-tailed “brown,” and quoted
glibly from the jargon of stables. He added
liberally to my education and he was fully 1 1.
* * * *
South Barwon* Shire Council (Vic.) has
seriously offended the religious sense of one
of its ratepayers. Writing more in sorrow
than in anger to the August sitting of the
council, he complained that an official had
served upon him on a Sunday, as he was
going to church, a trespass notice demanding
ss. How. protested the aggrieved church-
goer, could a man enter into the proper
spirit of a church service immediately after
he had been served with a demand to pay
55.? The council, not sufficiently Scotch to
appreciate the writer’s anguish, merely “re-
ceived” the protest and went on to next
business.
* * * *
“Pack Saddle”: “Mark Time” (B.
29/7/’2O) speaks of the A.S.C., the Y.M.C.A.
and other units “whose work did not bring
them into contact with Fritz.” I met
“Mark Time” first one day on the Menin-
road. I was driving an A.S.C. waggon filled
with ammunition along a particularly un-
healthy part of that memorable route. Fritz
started one of his road-searching stunts, and
some of the kerzumpers were landing peril-
ously close. “Mark Time” and a few of his
cobbers did uot wait either to argue or to
assist with the horses, which played up, but
hopped out of the waggon at the double-
quick and marked time in an adjacent shell-
hole. I mention the meeting in justice to
A.S.C. drivers, whose unspectacular work
very frequently brought them into a
contact with Fritz from which they couldn’t
escape into a shellhole. I’ll agree
that many A.S.C. men had cushy jobs out
of harm’s Way; but so did many engineers,
artillerymen and even foot-sloggers. 'Any-
one with knowledge of the conditions imme-
diately behind the lines, and the difficulties
associated with getting supplies, not only of
food, but of ammunition and tiihber, right
to the trenches, will aim no sarcasm at the
men who were responsible for the service.
THE HALLMARK OF A GENTLEMAN.
HE: “If I were you I — er — wouldn’t take
offence too easily at anything he might
say. He’s — er—such a GENTLEMAN,
doncherknow!”
SHE: “A gentleman/ That thing!”
HE (a little nonplussed ): "Er — er—what I
mean to say is that he’s nevah evah
UNINTENTIONALLY Wilde!”
THE SENTIENT SHALLOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’’Str Jagadis Chancier Bose, of the Calcutta Uni-
versity and Fellow of the Royal Society, has begun
a campaign to secure kindness to plants. They
have a nervous system, he savs, are active or leth-
argic according to the state‘of their health, they
sleep as we do, are hurt as we are, and drugs
affect tnem in the same wav. Thev can be excited
or depressed, and are pften highly ‘ emotional."
Forbear, forbear, 0 ruthless man, who with a
callous hand
Would tear away the tender dock that’s ’ rooted in
tin* land.
Be kindly to the thistle, with the sorrel do not err,
Nor deal out vicious treatment to the shrinking
Bathurst burr.
These tilings arc almost human, have their passions
and their pangs.
He’s but a cannibal who grabs with indurated fangs
The cabbage or the cauliflower, or ravenously eats
The sensitive tomato or a brace of tender beets.
If you knew how shrinks the lettuce from a gour-
mand’s cruel clutch,
Mow cucumber thrills with terror if you handle
her too much,
You’d respect the sensibilities of being highly
strung.
And make pets of little onions. They’re poetic
when they’re young.
But if you still persist in eating radishes alive,
If you snatch the soft, shy cresses from the soil
in which they thrive,
1 ou’ll be firmly prosecuted in accordance with the
means
Of Societies Preventing Needless Cruelty to Greens.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


Nu'i
K'4
r _
41
IkUJ
ft R
ifiimrj
J
i
r>
I
■1
iUUSIi
ss
4
4
H
•tllto
&
•of
/
/
J
o
1/
, “Young Australia” stands for
Genuine and Pure Linseed Oil,
which is Meggitt Limited’s.
Think Meggitt Limited and you think in continents.
Ask for Meggitt Limited’s Linseed Oil, and you will then
secure perfectly matured Oil, manufactured by the pioneer
manufacturers of Linseed Oil in Australia.
It produces hard, superior finish that will weather Aus-
tralian conditions. Extreme heat or cold does not affect the
quality of Meggitt Limited’s Linseed Oil.
The rigid scientific and mechanical control in refining
exercised at our Parramatta Mill secures for you Australian
Linseed Oil of quality and service.
Guaranteed genuine and pure, of dependable quality,
the user of Meggitt Limited’s Linseed Oil handles his work
with a feeling of satisfaction, knowing that his operations
will be profitable and give efficient service.
The feeling given by standard quality Linseed Oil, that
your work has no superior, is decidedly gratifying.
CATALOGUE NO. 2 MAILED FREE.
Agents:—Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs.
R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane; Messrs. Clarkson, Ltd., Run (lie
Street, Adelaide; Messrs. Win. Adams & Co., Ltd., King Street, Perth; Messrs, b. W.
Heritage & Co., Hobart and Launceston; The National Dairy Association of N.Z., Ltd.,
Sussex Chambers, Panama Street, Wellington, N.Z.; Messrs. Johnston & Co., Ltd.,
Featherston Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Vhe boy on the baa
guarantees quality "
e
HEAD OFFICE SC KING ST SYDNEY(WkstPaiTamatta)
i M
juar&ntees qua


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-I!J9 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS.
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH—
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
0}
15
Day
- per
Bed
Breakfast
Ke
bwanston
Melbourne j
Pro
i*iero
Hotel
WHISKY
THE TOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Mulga”: Re the controversy about bottle-
trees containing water. I have felled them with
survey parties and when clearing roads, and always
found a considerable supply of water, unless Binghi
had previously tapped the reservoir, which was fre-
quently the case. However* if the tree has been
emptied, water can always be obtained by cutting
DIRECT ACTION.
“Hi, boss, you gib it th' plurry collection
for poor black heathen, an’ plurry quick,
too! ”
one of the roots and draining it over a receptacle.
“S.C.McL.’s” tree on Glencoe, with a girth of
21ft., is only a baby alongside some of the vege-
tables on Bottle-tree Range, between Miles and
Taroom. One has a girth of 31ft., while numbers
are little smaller. Although the green timber
is quite soft, when seasoned it becomes very light
and hard, and a spear would ricochet off it as it
would off a politician’s hide. To an inexperienced
axeman it is a nightmare, as if the axe is driven
in too deep the handle will snap off, or the sfeel
will have to be left in the vegetable. Incidentally,
what age do these remarkable trees live to, and has
anyone ever seen or heard of a dead bottle-tree?
I haven’t.
* * * *
“Wousasa”: This'is a native (Solomon
Islands) meteorological conception. My boys were
having an argument about the length of the days,
and were trying to arrive at a conclusion as to
why the longest day should have half an hour’s
daylight more than the shortest day, with a con-
sequent lengthening and shortening in the hours
of work. Mandama,/ the boss-boy, whose word is
law amongst the natives, settled the matter of
the short day thus: “Day he savee run quick;
watch he no savee go quick.”
“Spud”: Will some kind Abo.-fencer help
a poor, loan soldier-settler with a bit of advice
on boring? I’ve been sailing into the existing three-
wire fence on my block with a brace and bit to
make it sheep-proof. I have cut out my supply
of bits and my hope of a seat in the choir. The
posts are dry myall and belar. The former takes
the bit at right angles to the direction I want to
go, and breaks the point off the screw. The latter
won’t take the blinking bit at all, and I’ve retired
bested. Is there any way of getting through this
uncivilised timber ?
* * * *
“Howdy” : For a lightning performer it’s
pretty safe to back the bamboo. Here on the
N. S. Wales North Coast I’ve got one that’s
averaged 74in. a day (24 hours) for the last
month; and on two days it did a little over 16in.
“Wandi”: I don’t know exactly what “To
Po” means by saying that our giant spider “is
not a triantelope” (B. 15/7/’2O). It may be that
it is not the name of a family, genus or species,
but it certainly is the popular, original and exclu-
sive name of this creature, and he was so labelled
in the Australian Museum the last time I was there.
* * * *
“Morven”: “Barcoo” lately gave an
account of a record droving-trip made by W. C.
Green. It should have been J. G. Green: he still can be
found at Charleville. The counting of these sheep
off one camp in one afternoon was done by J. O’Sul-
livan, now manager of Mt. Morris station, not by
Halligan, who was indisposed on that occasion.
“Bouragi”: “Nalla Dooh” says (B.
15/7/’2O) that Papuans used a disc-shaped stone-
axe, with the handle in the centre of the disc, for
cutting up “long-pig.” He is wrong. These disc-
clubs, common to nearly all Papuan tribes, are
for fighting only. The “long-pig,” beyond having
his head cracked by the disc-club, owed nothing
further to its services. Before the steel or iron
of the white man came, the Papuan cut up his prog
with a knife of bamboo, which was sharpened by
pulling a filament off the cdtting edge when that
grew blunt. A flint or obsidian knife is used in
some of the islands, the latter in New Ireland
especially. I never came across either material as
weapon or tool in Papua.
* * * *
“Senex”: I nominate old Denny, lately
dead at Lesprit’s farm, Tolga (N.Q.), as the patri-
arch among horses in Australia. He was bought
at auction at Herberton by the late Jules Lesprit
in 1880 as a 10-year-old. So the old prad success-
fully struggled against the climate for 41 years.
It’s an awful place when even a horse can’t last
much over 40!
* * * *
“Dolphin” : According to John Mathew, who
knows as much of the Australian abo. as the next man,
there is enough linguistic evidence to lead
to the conclusion that the abos. of Victoria
and the Riverina were at one time in con-
tact with the extinct Tasmanians. He says
that amongst the marked differences between
the dialects of Vic. and those of N. S. Wales
(except the Riverina) and Queensland was
the fact that the Victorian tribes had a
number of words with an initial L not found
further north. And many of these words
were akin to Tasmanian words —for instance,
lenna, meaning rest (found in the name
Wyba Lenna, place of rest, given by the
Tasmanian abos. to their camp on Flinders
Island) ; leanna (tooth) and laa (wife). He
quotes, too, a number of cases in which the
Victorian word differs from that used else-
where on the continent, yet is very close to
the Tasmanian such as tirrar (Gippsland) and
terrar (Tasmanian), a kangaroo; tyenna and
tyentiah, a foot, and not a few others. This
seems to support the theory of those who
reckon that the Tasmanians once occupied
Australia, and were driven out or swamped
by an invading race. They would hang out
longest in the south-east corner, and mix their
blood in appreciable quantities with the
newcomers.
“Scottie Thrake” : On a small creek near
the divide of the Gulf and the Eastern waters (N.Q.)
I found three old nigger gunyahs. They were well
built of vines and grass, about sft. in height, cone-
shaped and, though old, in good repair. A glance
at the ashes of the camp-fire showed me that they
had been deserted about five years. (Spear-grass
will grow on burnt ground or ashes after the third
wet season, not before. It drops its seeds and
dies before the fourth year; and the second growth,
from the old stool, begins with the rain, to drop
its seeds and die before the fifth, and so on.) Feel-
ing curious, I got down on my hands and knees
(the doorway is about the size and shape of a wash-
basin) to have a look at the inside. In an instant
my arms and face were covered with a thick coat-
ing of fleas, and they were the hungriest fleas I
ever met. You seldom see a nigger in this country,
and white men are few and far between, so what
do these fleas live on?
“A.S.H.”: They say strychnine won’t kill
pigs. Well, listen. I was laying a trail and baits
for foxes in South Gippsland and didn’t notice for
a time that an old sow was following me and enjoy-
ing the poisoned baits. She died ; but it may have
been from housemaid’s knee. I know of other
cases, too. I have lost dogs also from gnawing
very dead bones. And a friend of mine lost a
milking cow just lately through chewing the bones
of poisoned rabbits.
W andi’ : I was riding out of a scrubby
gully through a narrow gap. There was only just
enough room to pass, and I was half-way up when
my hat was suddenly snatched away. As the horse
was struggling upwards over broken rocks, I didn’t
get a square look at the aggressor until I reached
A THING THAT BIRD WOOD OVERLOOKED.
DAD: “As I teas a-sayin' ter yer mother only this mornin', it were a pity yer didn't 'ave
a cow as a mascot in yer battalion. Then yer wouldn't 'ave yarn orf in yer
milkin’ like yer 'ave done.”
the top. Then I saw a koala sitting on the rock-
edge at the butt of a tree, having an argument with
my hat and looking annoyed. My headgear had
evidently brushed him as I rode by, and the koala
is a beast that will always spar if you get within
reach of his arms. His long curved claws had pierced
the felt, and it took me five minutes with a long
stick to get possession of it again.
* * * *
“Baba”: The most primitive oven for
cooking food that I know of is used by native
women in Western Papua. They spread antbed on
the ground, and on it light a fire. When the ant-
bed is sufficiently heated the embers are removed
With bamboo tongs, and the food (principally yams
and taro) is placed on top of it and then covered
with sheets of ti-tree bark. It is left thus for up
to two hours. Except where civilized methods have
crept in, natives never boil, but bake and roast
food. Sometimes they broil taro tops by placing
them in the oven on a sheet of bark above the
yams, pour water on them, and cover up with bark.
* * * *
“Te Whare”: Here’s a swag of eggs for
a small bird to look after. In one instance I
found the nest of a ground wren (dwarf tit-warbler)
with three of its own red-speckled egg's and two
cuckoo’s eggs—not in this instance those of a bronze-
wing, but of a larger cuckoo, the fantailed variety
probably. In other instances I have found two
bronzewinged cuckoo’s eggs planked into the nest of
a small bird. I’ve also found two bronzewinged
cuckoo’s eggs, similar in size, *in the same nest —
one a yellow-bronze egg, of the common bronze-
winged cuckoo, the other red speckled, of the nar-
row-billed bronzewinged cuckoo probably. In odd
cases one finds the cuckoo’s egg at the bottom of
the nest with some lining over it, the proprietress
having fenced the intruder off before depositing her
own clutch.
“Jim Carew”: In Western Bananaland
there are four distinct varieties of white-ants. One
is a sort of soldier-ant. This chap is armed with a
short, sharp, strong spike on the front of his head,
and though comparatively small, can easily out any
other white-ant. Even the larger black fellows seem
to leave him severely alone. He fills the cells of
his nest with pieces of dried grass, neatly cut into
lengths (about fin.). Up that way there is a
small ant green enough to make him the friend of
every Irishman. He builds a big nest of leaves in a
tree, and other tree-haunting ants are very careful
to keep well away.
“Huffin-Guffin”: Before the big-tree
records are closed let me put in a word for the
Glenelg River (Vic.) red gums. On Tuloona station,
near Harrow, McDonald and Hole found a tree
from which they cut 40'3 fence-posts, sft. 6in. long
and 6x4 inches. That beat the previous district
record of 378 from a tree on Kout Norin station in
the old Broughton days. The red-gum trees along
the Glenelg Valley from below Balmoral to beyond
Harrow are perhaps th<? finest in Australia. I
knew one on Fulham station which, I think, would
equal, if not pass, the Tuloona giant’s record.
“Pick”: “Capital Jim” marvels (B.
10/7/’2O) because while splitting a sound tree he
evicted from a cavity threih five living toads. Well,
when blasting through the solid cutting on Brown
Mountain (N.S.W’.) we found a pale-colored live
toad in the middle of an uncreviced 6ft. granite
boulder; and living beetles of a strange species
were discovered in buried logs 12ft. under the sur-
face when We were sinking for bedrock on the
site of the Nadjidgomar dam. Like the seeds of
wattles and other trees that under unfavorable con-
ditions will not germinate for decades, the eggs
of certain insects and reptiles may remain un-
hatched for long periods and retain their fertility.
Deposited in a tree hollow, the tree-toad’s eggs are
apt to be encased by the growth of the wood, and
there’s no egress for the toad chicks when subse-
quently they break the shells, unless a splitter or a
sawyer opens the way. In the Goulburn (N.S.W.)
museum, the split portion of a solid box-tree butt
with a bullock’s horn entirely encased within was
long on exhibition. The theory that had
once lived in the tree was, however, generally dis-
credited.
* * * *
“O.S.”: “3556” (B. 27/5/’2OJ thought
“Rosalie” and “Tiino” wrong in classing W. R.
Carver as champion rough-rider of Australia, and
suggested that Snowy Baldwin is the best horseman
we’ve got. I don’t know who is the best horseman
in Australia (one is best for one thing and another
for another), but I do know that when Baldwin
showed at Ivilcoy (Q.), Major Blakeney’s horse threw
him twice as quickly as a pack-horse would throw
H.C.L.
“Now, there’s a good sock, sir — 15s. the pair.
That make is almost unprocurable
now” —
"Yes, you’re right, it is. In fact, quite un-
procurable.”
a loose swag. I was a judge when Baldwin and
Waite rode to settle a wager many years ago in
Brisbane, and Grey Echo threw Baldwin to blazes
in about the third buck. Snowy’s bareback riding
took with the average crowd of townies, but there
was nothing in it to build a title on.
(Continued on page 22.)
WOOD-SMOKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A heavy scent of wood-smoke in the air,
And suddenly the world was young again;
A fresh green world all glistening and fair
With the sweet benediction of warm rain;
And you had lit the vamp-fire as of old,
And underneath the ledge the flames spun gold.
And I was ten years younger, and the earth
Centuries younger to my warmer heart;
The little creek ran by and sang its mirth,
The grave gums stood and dreamt, aloof, apart,
And I, unknowing, drank the beauty in,
And stripped the wallaby of its warm skin !
Those big-eyed dogs of yours, so lean of flank,
Crouched close at hand, still panting from the chase ;
And one went to the mirthful creek and drank
And came and thrust his muzzle in my face
With trusting friendliness, while to the sky
The steady plume of smoke rose blue and high.
We baked the red flesh in the soft, fierce logs,
Scenting the acrid smell of burning meat;
Then gave the charred feast to the eager dogs
And found dry patches in the young sun’s heat
Where we could sprawl and drowse and rest and
smoke
And hear the jackass catch the bright creek’s joke.
Ilhie were the skies then, long the sunny days;
Lost now the gully where the tall trees nod;
Mellow the picture with the long years’ haze,
Far off the bushland from the tuays we plod;
Out of the brave past came the scene aglow,
Painted by wood-smoke when the flames were low.
VICTORIA.
DALE COLLINS.


SAFEGUARD YOUR FLOCKS
AGAINST THE RAVAGES OF THE BLOWFLY
by Spraying with a Solid Jet under Pressure!
Spraying has proved itself to be the most efficient method of dealing with the blowfly, and, as a result, losses through
this pest have been reduced by from 90 to 95 per cent.
1-
\\\
y
>
>
Wt
$
"
//
4S
**&>**&s&
fSk
m
f
m
m
15he woopeti?
IS THE ORIGINAL POWER SHEEP-SPRAY PLANT!
Especially constructed for applying the dip by means of a solid jet. It
is complete, ready for work, and is of inestimable value to the sheep-
owner.
The engine is the world-renowned Cooper “Little Wonder, which
develops full 2 B.H.P. Fitted with Liberty Magneto, Float Feed Car-
buretter, Automatic Lubrication, etc.
The Pump is the Cooper back-geafed, vertical duplex type, and 1
adapted for high-pressure work.
especially
The plant also includes a heavy galvanised-
iron spray tank, a strong mechanical agitator,
two 30ft. lengths of special high-pressure spray
hose fitted with caps and linings, and a good
quality tarpaulin.
SHEARING MACHINES CAN BE ATTACHED IF DESIRED!
The illustration to the right shows the plant with two stands of shearing machines attached This is
an excellent combination It can then be used either for treating the sheep with _the liquid or for
crutching or shearing them. Write to-day for particulars of plant and method.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.,
134 Sussex Street, SYDNEY. 486 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Clark & Fauset, Ltd., Brisbane; N. Z. Loan & M. A Co., Ltd., Hughenden, T p o «" s r a i e^°& h |“ P s!
ton; Aust. Implement & H. F. Co., Adelaide; G. P. Hams Scarfe & Co., Perth, Harts & Sons,
Launceston; Buchanan, Davidson, Ltd., Hobart.
svd
“THE BEHNING ”
Unusually rich and beautiful tone, a
mast efficient action, a handsome and
distinctive case design, and superb
finish. This instrument will appeal to
the most discriminating.
“THE ESTEY.”
This exquisitely beautiful instrument,
perfect in action, rich in those liquid
sympathetic singing tones so sought
by music critics, is exceedingly
popular.
PALING’S
PIANOS
OUR GREAT PIANO
AGENCIES.
CHAPPELL,
BEHNING,
ESTEY,
LAFF ARGUE,
CHRISTMAN,
WELLSMORE,
VICTOR,
MAXIM,
BELLING.
i
OUR GREAT PLAYER
PIANO AGENCIES.
CHAPPELL,
BEHNING,
AUTOTONE,
ESTEY,
CHRISTMAN,
PLAYOTONE,
LAFFARGUE,
REGAL,
VICTOR.
The purchase of each one of these instruments carries with it
Palings reputation for fair dealing, service and attention
that has made their name a household word throughout
Australia since 185 3.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
AND PRINTED PRICE LIST SHOWING FULL
PARTICULARS OF OUR EASY TERMS.
fs
358 George Street,
And at
BRISBANE-
SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE—TOOWOOMBA—LISMORE— ROCKHAMPTON
“THE VICTOR,
99
The best-known piano in Australia, is
a perfectly proportioned instrument
possessing dignity and refinement. It
is so soundly constructed that it will
stand the severest climatic conditions.
“THE LAFFARGUE
A large and handsome upright piano
with a deep, rich tone and easy,
responsive action. It combines in an
ideal way all the essential features of
a high-grade piano of unquestioned
merit.


. PERMANENCE SECURITY STRENGTH
PERMANENT
Trustee Company of N.S.W. Ltd.
Incorporated 188 S by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustee,
Capital: Subscribed,
Executor,
£1,000,000; Paid
Attorney, Agent.
Up, £110,000; Uncalled, £890,000.
ALFRED G. MILSON.
JAMES MOIR. ,
J. W. Barnes, Assistant Manager,
DIRECTORS:
,F. N. YAH WOOD
(Chairman).
Write for Literature.
0. E. FRIEND.
THOS. BUCKLAND.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD. Manager.
25 O’CON NELL STREET,
SYDNEY.
"Redshank”; Sitting on the banks of the
Williams River trying to fill a bag I saw an old
carpet-snake in ambush in a prolific growth of
“Paddy’s lucerne.” Brer Rabbit meandering about
came within range. Out shot the broad head, and
Bunny was grabbed in the rear. Then began a
great fight. From Bunny’s point of view liberty
and life were imperilled. Carpet's argument was
that he had a right to dinner. Above the "paddy’s
lucerne” at intervals of a second or two Bun’s
head would pop up in his struggle to escape,-and
WHERE HE'D FEEL IT MOST.
DOCTOR (before the operation): "('owe on
now, bitch up, Mr. McPherson —it won't
amount to anything.”
SCOTCH PATIENT: “Thanh ye, Doctor; I
kenned weel ge'd he reasonable.”
lie squealed all the time. At last the seat of his
breeches gave way, and the, impetus landed him in
the river. After pulling himself together he struck
out upstream for his life. Old Carpet was Non-
plussed lor a few' seconds until the ripple on the
water struck him. Then in he dived and began
a careful search. At times 2ft of his body was
out. of water as he scanned the 'surface for his
dinner. Then he would arch his hack into a
great how clear of the water and dive again. This
went on for eight or ten minutes. By this time
Bunny Was well away, upstream and uphill, and
Carpet reluctantly admitted defeat.
A SLAVE OF THE BOTTLE.
MUM: "What's the time, Dad?"
DAD: "Time! What, somebody taking medicine?"
“ITnrvih”: The flood-rain commenced the
evening' Evans called, and Dad, thinking of tl>e
mile walk, invited him to stay for the night. Just
on doss-time Evans was missing, but an hour later
he reappeared, breathing heavily, and wet as a shag.
“I just slipped ’onie for me ’jarmers!” he explained.
‘‘Spudtrapiier”: Cooking a potato is looked
upon as easy ; but there’s many a good spud spoiled,
for all that. It is not so much in the cooking as
in the pouring-off that the secret lies. When you
have poured off the water remove the saucepan lid
and hold the potatoes to the coldest draught of
wind you can find for about five seconds. Then
Pop the lid on, and, holding it firm, give the pot
a good shaking; repent the operation several-times,
ami the waxy, uninteresting spuds will assume the
form and appearance of balls of snow, Steam for
a, few minutes, and you will find there is as much
difference as if a wizard’s wand had been at work.
“To W7’; Whore tame ducks and black
(or Australian wild) ducks fraternise, as they some-
times do on rivers, lagoons, etc., crosses often result,
and (lie progeny much resemble the wild birds,
especially if the tame ducks are of the Rouen
breed. This resemblance in
one instance served to lure a
city sport into trouble: Re-
ceiving imperative orders from
his hostess to “bring something
home” he sallied forth, and
incontinently banged into a
flock of hybrids belonging, to
the overseer of the station.
The three victims cost him
about 4s. apiece. But the fact
that the ducks didn’t fly at
sight would have made a
seasoned country sport cock his
efirs. No.wild duck is warier
and more alert than the black.
So far as I am aware it is
only the black duck which thus
crosses. It. is probable that
the failure to breed which
usually marks black duck, etc.,
•taken from the nest at chick
■stage and confined in a roomy
enclosure, is due to an instinc-
tive observance by the birds
of the law of natural selection.
They won’t mate among
their own brothers and
sisters. But finches (some-
times) and also the domestic Tom and Tabby ( as. a
rule) infrirtge Darwin’s law.
“Wallan” : Here is a simpler and better
method of' cooling- drinks than either “Peg-leg’s” or
“Centurion’s.” Merely shove a handful of salt and
soda into the water in which the bottles are stand-
ing. This will cause the temperature of the water
to drop 20 or 30 degrees instantly. It is im-
material whether baking- or washing-soda is used.
M'hen the missus makes her next lot of jellies or
custards in the warm weather and finds that thev
won’t set, put her on to the soda-salt mixture. She
will soon have a firm jelly or custard.
lix : Mr. and Mrs. Tomtit are not
fussy in their selection of a site for a nursery.
Recently I discovered one of their nests containing
three eggs in the chest cavity of a bleaching kan-
garoo-skeleton which was hanging over the limb of
a mulga-tree where it had been thrown bv some
hunter..
“T.I-1.M.”:- Apropos the sagacity, of dogs,
let me advance the performance of two animals
tlmt used to be the' pride of Oak-lands’ (Tus.) some
f>o years ago. They were owned by Dr. Tcusli,
who had them sent from England. On the occasion
of calls far out into the country, the doctor was
in the habit of taking one or other of these animals
(large beasts they were), with him. Then, upon his
return, he would send the dog back to the patient
with medicine, strapped to the neck in a leather
case. The animals intelligence had to frequently
take it from 20 ftp '25 miles away from home; but
the medicine always, reached its destination.
“Apkayein”: “liittm’' (B. 22/7/’2O) wants
to know whether there is anything in the trick
of picking a puppy by placing the litter a few
yards from their nursery and allowing ma
to choose_ which one she will take in first. Many
old coursing men use this idea, but others have
blown the argument out by showing that even
among dogs favoritism is prevalent, and it does
not follow that mum's pet will turn out the best.
Another old-time way. of selecting a greyhound
pup was to hold each one up by the tail and allow
it to demonstrate its galloping stride and symmetry.
In Clones (Vic.) a blind man used to pick the
imps for local enthusiasts, and i would rather have
his choice than one determined by either of the
other methods.
* * *
"Sarto”: “Gundaghi” (B. 15/7/'2O) says
that whilst vigorously stroking his yellow oat’s
coat he heard a crackling noise and was evidently-
surprised, on turning out the light and repeating the
operation, to see sparks issuing from pussy’s fur.
Nothing. The other night the missus was brushing
hei hair and 1 both heard the crackling noise and
saw sparks coming from her fur. l».S.—She is not a
yellow cat. She is dark.
J-G. : I have had to drink as many kinds
of muddy water as most people. 1 found that
lime, Epsom salts, wood ashes and alum were all
good clarifiers, but they will not all act with every
kind of water. For instance, water with anv trace
of iron cannot be cleared with alum. Lime, how-
ever, will do it. But in limestone country lime is
not much good, whilst alum will do the trick. As
to alum being injurious to health, not enough is
used to do any harm—about half a teaspoonful will
clear 200 gallons. Lemon juice or lime juice will
eleas almost any kind of muddy water, but as a
rule it is as hard to raise those fruit juices in
muddy { water country as Queensland finds it to raise
a loan in London.
* * *
”11. Murray”; A simpler method than
“Cape Pork’s” (B. 8/7/’2O) for finding log contents
is this: Quarter of circumference squared, multi-
plied by length and by 12, equals super feet.
“Pommy”: One morning two of my fowls
disappeared. A dingo got one. I saw him galloping
ofl with it, and as I thought the other had gone
the same way I did not trouble to look for her.
Bet wen seven and eight weeks; later 1 went to a
disused shaft to throw some l'ubbish away arid saw
a live fowl at the bottom. My husband got a ladder
and went down for her, and at the end of a short
drive found five eggs, evidently- laid when she first
disappeared. During the seven weeks and more there
was r.o rain, the shaft is dry. and she certainly
didn t get a drink. There didn’t appear to be any-
thing to eat, either, except flies. She was very
light in weight, of course, but she soon picked up
again, and in less than a month was laying well.
She was a pellet, 10 months old, a white leghorn.
"Frank Wangai berries, which are
really a kind of small plum, grow all over the place
in North Queensland, throughout file islands of the
lories Strait and in Papua. They are collected and
dried by the islanders, and keep for months, coming
in as a useful addition to the menu during th
season when food is hard to catch. The flavor of
the fruit is excellent; it keeps well, is very nutri-
tious and would make an agreeable addition to our
dried fruits. Along the coasts of some of the
islands the trees are thick, and I have seen them
covered with fruit. There's the germ of a new
industry here for anyone looking for such a thing.
"John Quill’ - ; The destructive floods out
M est, with which a bountiful Providence recently
answered the N. S. Wales cookies’ prayers for rain,
had the cleansing effect on the inland streams that
medicine has on the human system. After four
years of drought the rivers had become stagnant,
“limy with weeds, stinking with dead animals and
fish ; yet thousands of people in the Western towns
depended on them for their domestic water-supply.
It is a relief for such people to know that the
rotting cow which formerly polluted the water a
mile above the town now reposes in Lake Alexan-
drine, or else lines the stomach of some sea-monster
in the Southern Ocean. I merely proffer this as
an argument against impious scoffers and other
enemies of the present Labor Government, or, in
•lolin Milton Storey’s appropriate words, in order to
"vindicate the-ways of God to man.”
"Yelnats”: The 30ft. tides of W.A. and
the Territory, mentioned by “Dolphin” ( B. 22/7/’2O)
are not "easily our highest.” St. Lawrence - (Q.),
midway between ftpekhampton and Mackay, has an
ebb and flow of 47ft.
“Mundub” : The silent Queenslander shifted
his gaze from the coals to the men chatting round
the tire. It was well after the time when he was
usually left alone with his thoughts. “Talkin’ of
ranges,” he said, giving the fire a vicious poke with
liis hoot, “coinin’ down CannindaH into the Peaks
once, 1 wanted a sapling to swing on behind the drav
to steady her down, and chun me if they wasn’t all
cut down and taken for ‘drags’ for three miles
hack from the road. 1 didn’t mind that so much."
he continued, “but, after finding- one, .when I got to
the bottom I had to cart the blimed thing four
mile before 1 could throw it off the road, the stack
of drags on both sides was so high.” Then every -
■ body went to bed.
‘Tix” : The cuttle had settled down for
the night, and all hands excepting Hogan, who
had joined us at Adelaide Gate and was on watch,
were dead abunk. As the time dragged the sentinel
made bis way to the fire and proceeded to regale him-
self with tea and damper. Whilst thus engaged a
quiet arid inquisitive steer detached himself .from
the mob and mooched towards the fire. Hogan
picked a burning stick from the lire and threw it
towards the steer. Like a flash, and with a rattle
of hooves and horns, the mob was gone. The boss,
seeing Hogan’s horse standing a short distance away,
had visions of a mangled stockman. “Hogan!
Hogan!” he yelled, “where are you?” Calm ami
reassuring cable the reply from amidst the foliage
of a friendly miilga: “1 p this tree, of course.
Where did you think I'd be,?” It took two days to
collect the scattered mob, but it took the boss
only about 10 minutes to tell llogan the move im-
portant part of what lie thought of him and give
him his cheque. .
“Deljii : Any Abo. noticed that when taek-
ling a large tree the part facing the south is harder
to split and shows a greater inclination to “run
ofl than .that which faces the north?
TOWARDS PUTTING IT DOWN.
BOLSHEVISTIC LADY : "No, my man , it is
not the slightest use me, helping you
to-day. You will he just as badly off
to-morrow. You are a victim of the
capitalistic system. That must he
o[?]rthrwn.”
COLIN THE CADGER: “Well, gimme thrip-
pence towards some dynamite."
DREAMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bill sits apart in the crowded bar
U ,th a wo . 1( l f or none as the folk go by ;
fhe bar-lamp flame is a golden star
In the Purple depths of a cloudless sky.
The white-waslied walls arc the hills he trod
When the day’s first beams on the hilltops
glowed—-
Now faint and far as the bullocks plod
Through the blinding- dust of the red-brown road.
A bushland bard sings a song age-old
To the tuneless twang of a mandolin;
And shearers come with their hard-won gold.
And the sun-browned men of the teams troop in.
But, Bill still sits like a man of stone
As he mumbles on in a dreamy way:
Me axle s dry as a. blinded bone,
An’ me waggon squeaks like th’ station dray.
•‘Whoa back now, Spark! Step along there, Bright!
If ye loaf again it’s the whip ye’ll get.
Ye lazy cows, can’t ye see it’s night
An’ we’re miles an’ miles from th’ turn-off yet?”
A silence comes as a swarthy man
Takes the mandolin in his lean, brown hands--
A dark-eyed son of the caravan
And the palm-fringed wells of the desert sands.
Bill’s limbs relax, and his eyes gleam bright
As the trembling strings sing a lullaby ;
A oii-1 rides out in the Starlit night
'Where the plain lies still as a sleeping sea.
A shy-eyed girl of the bush, and fair,
With her hair unbound and her cheeks aglow,
llor rounded throat and her brown arms I,are
To the whispering winds that love her so.
The teamsters halt on the red-soil plain
As the boobook calls to his tardy mate;
And Bill rides west with an eager rein
To the girl who waits by the homestead gate.
lie breathes her name, and a plover springs
\\ ith a plaintive cry from her cheerless nest;
The last note dies on the sobbing strings,
And the folk pass out with an idle jest.
But one rides west where the dark plain sleeps;
With a. listless rein and his eyes grown dim ;
But Night is kind and the secret keeps
Of the aching void in the heart of him.
KB.W.
G. D. MAODO[?]AD.


BACK AGAIN !
WINFRED
Cigarettes.
The World’s Favorite.
GOLD TIPPED.
IQ for 9d.
SHIPMENTS JUST LANDED.
Obtainable Everywhere.


Tke
Purest
Spirit
in the
(L **fc*Efe SCHNAP^ 6
a
CROUP
\ S//.',/
A
<5
iliiiiiinlltniiilHlllllllllnii[iill!'llllHlllliHHlfinitiiiiiiiiiliiifi!mii[iiiiii)iii!miiiiiiuiimiriniiiniiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiniiiiniiiimii'iiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiii
Miimnmmmunmmimimm i m i
1
• c'-* T,^* 4
EVERY Drop of
“Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
A Plain
Fact!
W. G. Hearnc & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street, SYDNEY.
w.
California, Victoria and Maoriland drew
away a great part of the male population of
the colony, and thereafter Tasmania stag-
nated for half a century. Nature had, how-
ever, been good enough to give the little
island a large pool in the highlands; and
that and a few other trifling circumstances
havk breathed new life into the dead bones.
D. F.
Japan Faces the Peace
Two motifs run' like threads through the
fabric of A. M. Pooley’s latest book, Japan's
Foreign Policies (George Allen and Unwin).,
The first is the inevitability of war between
Japan and the U.S.A.; the second Japan’s
determination to exploit China to the exclu-
sion of every other Power. The conclu-
sion which this eminent English authority
draws, and which he supports by profuse
quotations from official Japanese documents
and the vernacular press, may be summar-
ised this way :
The late war has made Japan, commercially and
financially. The foreign trade for the year ending
February 27, 1919, increased 172 per cent, over
that of the last 12 months before the war. This
is reflected in the figures of the banks. In the last
financial year for which figures are available clearing-
house bills increased 432 per cent., and post-office
savings-bank deposits 186 per cent. In 1918
silk was exported to the value of roundly 247 mil-
lion yen, and in 1918 to the value of 539 millions.
In 1913 cotton valued at 108 million yen was ex-
ported; in 1918 the shipments were 415 millions. In
1918 221 million yens’ worth of steamships were sold
abroad. Before the war Japan had never exported
a steamer. Japanese cotton yarn and fabrics have
driven even Indian goods off the Chinese market.
Since this has been achieved principally “by the
absence of strict restrictions of working hours and
the low level of wages,” the “recent rapid advance
of these goods in Australia” is not astonishing.
Japan, with its shortage of iron, and indeed of all
minerals but coal and copper, has been able to
accomplish so much by simply taking whatever it
needed from China.
“The- Taochung mine is owned by the Sino-
Japanese Industrial Corporation, a subsidiary of the
Japanese Government. The visible ore is 60,000,000
tons (65 per cent. pure). The works being laid
out are planned for a production of 170,000 tons
of pig-iron, 100,000 tons of steel ingots and 75,000
tons of forgings and castings. The Pensihu mines,
also belonging to Japan, cover one of the most
extensive deposits in China. The workable ore is
estimated at over 100,000,000 tons. The present
output is 70,000 tons.” So far Japan “controls 40
per cent, of China’s total production of coal, and
over 75 per cent, of the output of modern-style
mines.”
China does not want the Japanese. They are
hated there even more vehemently than they are in
America. All the recognised methods of penetrating
a desirable and defenceless country have been
employed by them in China—chiefly, of course, the
extortion of mining and railway concessions in com-
pensation for the murder of Japanese nationals. A
big business has been done in fomenting revolutions
with the object of keeping the Chinese disunited.
And, Anally, the world-war gave Japan the excuse
that munitions had to be supplied to Russia, and that
the Japanese workshops could only do it with the
aid of Chinese coal and iron. Peace flnds the
Japanese the heirs both to Russia in Manchuria and
to Germany in Shantung, and still steadily pene-
trating.
The idea that the Japanese either like or admire
the British is a fallacy. “During the war there
raged in Japan an extraordinary anti-British cam-
paign, in the course of which every calumny from
incompetence to cowardice and bestiality was
alleged against the British Army.” This campaign
was official as well as popular. In Japan a telephone
message from a Government department is enough to
bring the flercest press critic to -heel. But the real
force of the nation’s hatred is directed at the United
States. And in Pooley’s opinion it is reciprocated.
The racial question has little or nothing to do with
the matter outside California. The Americans are
inured to miscegenation, and the Japanese Govern-
ment’s own treatment of foreigners is such that it is
difficult for it to work up anything resembling
a genuine grievance when its people are slighted in
foreign parts. The bone of contention is the balance
of power in the Paciflc. Japan intends—with the
forced help of China—to dominate the world’s coming
ocean: the American Government, probably any
American Government, will put a brake on that
scheme. “The relations between Japan and America
are extraordinarily similar to those prevailing between
Germany and Great Britain in the years previous
to 1914. On the Japanese side is a frankly aggres-
sive nation, ruled under almost a theocracy by a
group of highly-placed, ambitious and unscrupulous
bureaucrats, having under their control a well-
organised and developed army and navy, compara-
tively fresh from a victory over a weak opponent,
and straining like greyhounds on the leash for
another run. On the American side is a great
Power imbued by high altruistic motives, which run
counter to Japanese aims, governed under a system
which is peculiarly sensible to the influence of
interests, flnancial and political, and cranks.”
Assuming that Pooley’s deductions are
sound, the wisdom of the Jellicoe proposals
from the standpoint of Australia, to make
no mention of the rest of the British Empire,
becomes clearer than ever. Japan, by means
of a heroic financial effort, is bringing its
navy up to the “eight-eight” standard this
year. The Japanese consider that, thus
equipped, they will be U.S.A.’s match in
the Pacific. Their leading men—and amongst
them the pre-war Naval Minister Baron
Saito—have said so. They are a
wandering, colonising race, ' like the
British; and Australia is desirable for
exploitation. Of course, we may take a chance,
and gamble on the U.S. Pacific Fleet
making the Commonwealth safe by wiping
the highly-efficient Japanese off the
face of the Pacific, and reducing the brown
Empire to the status of a third-class Power.
If we are going to do that , we should, logi-
cally, close down the few naval bases we
have and scrap the R.A.N. Otherwise the
only course is to go bald-headed for a naval-
defence scheme which, at small cost, is cal-
culated to make the Commonwealth safe even
from attack. On all the evidence the Japs
mean business, whoever else doesn’t.
Stevens and Synge
“O’k Aonian” complains that I exalt
Stevens at the expense of Synge; recently
Maire Mackay complained that I gave
Synge a place among the elect at all. Both
are referring to the same article. On the
evidence “O’h Aonian” did not read it; for
there is no attempt in it to compare the
relative genius, of Synge and Stevens. Most
that “O’h Aonian” says about Synge I agree
with, though he stresses the political feel-
ing to the point of absurdity; but'Ahe plain
fact stands that Synge .sees the exceptional,
the unpleasant and the sordid in Irish life
to the exclusion of most that is character-
istic. This was due partly to his disease;
partly to the fashion of the group of writers
with whom he mixed. Gloom and a hard,
almost bitter outlook upon the world are
the characteristics of most of Synge’s crea-
tions, and they are perfectly true to Irish
life; but they are not true to Irish life taken*
in the mass. An Ireland imagined on the
basis of Synge’s work alone would be a
place of horror to nine-tenths of the Irish
people. “O’h Aonian’s” remark that “what-
ever. is natural is never sordid” is merely
asinine. The greed of the usurer, the filth
°L t^le s^ m > th 9 baseness of the person In
office taking bribes —all these things are
natural enough, for the anthropoid ape fore-
shadows them. Are they not sordid? The
great genius of Synge gave us great drama;
but it did not tell the stranger what Irish
thought and feeling were like. Stevens,
with his great genius—a genius in its way
even more remarkable than that of Synge—
does tell him. Stevens is every way the
greater poet of the two; every way the
deeper philosopher. He goes to the root of
the matter, while Synge deals with infinite
skill m things seen. But for Heaten’s sake
let us be thankful for both men. The noise
raised by Irishmen over “The Playboy”
seems to have found a lusty echo in‘“O’h
Aonian’s” fury over my attempt to do jus-
tice to Stevens.
D. M. W.
Another Aspect of Slanguage
One of the most notable effects of Austra-
lian participation in the war has been the
all-round adoption of slanguage. Two bar-
risters of my acquaintance have confessed to
difficulty in recovering the diction which was
theirs before they went into training-camps
and trenches. The great Australian adjec-
tive makes desperate efforts to give color and
sensation to their forensic utterances, and
the temptation to use a word reflecting upon
the ancestry of learned friends is at times
well-nigh irresistible.
Doctors, engineers, scientists and business
men who served are all ready to admit that
their speech has suffered, and that they have
to listen to their own language at times in
order to keep out the startling contractions
and synonyms current Over There. Yet men
of these occupations naturally make a
speedier recovery than do those who belong
to what are usually called “the working
classes.” Not only do the returned men
among these keep to the limited vocabulary of
the Digger, but they infect their mates and
members of their families, with results which
suggest that the Chair of English Language
has not been established at Sydney Univer-
sity a day too soon.
One aspect of this cramping of the lan-
guage is .of interest to technical educators
and politicians, It may be studied in any
large industrial establishment, in the trades
unions, labor leagues and socialist organisa-
tions. This is the tendency to ridicule and
scorn anyone who is careful in speech. Many
Labor leaders who know better, and can talk
well, adopt the diction of the ignorant when
addressing meetings of their supporters “No
blanky gyver about me, ’n no kid, I kin tell
yuh!” they say in effect; and they usually
tell a story of some “bloomin’ torf,” evincing
meticulous care in the use of aspirates and
terminations. The well-trained audience is
invariably delighted.
So it comes about that the decently-
educated lad who enters an office or shop
or workroom has an unhappy time until he
conforms, and mangles his pleasant speech to
the curious shapes and sounds affected by
the “Lorlumme” Australian or the harsh-
spoken Pommy. He is sneered at as a
Sissy if he ventures to employ an unusual
term, and even in the matter of technical
phrases he is called upon to adopt the substi-
tutes invented by those who were either too
careless or too ignorant to learn the right
words.
This narrowing of the spoken language
must influence the mental vision of the
people. Thought on subjects of national
importance is replaced by “class-conscious-
ness” of the most vicious character. Study
becomes first tiresome and then abhorrent.
Little by little the horizon narrows until the
citizen is ripe for the teachings of any fool-
politician who is cunning enough, by dis-
tortion of the language, to “tickle the ears
of the groundlings.”
JACK NORTH.
The Mediaeval Wallaby
The swagman and his tucker-bags seem
to have lived a very long time together; and
Henry Lawson was not the first to put them
into verse. When Robin Hood, in the ballad
of “The Widow’s Three Sons,” changed
clothes with the “silly old palmer”
Ho thought no shame, all the dav long
To wear the bags of bread.
Later on Robin, in the same ragged garb
refuses the offer of the sheriff and tells him
I’ve a bag for meal, and a bag for malt,
And a bag for barley and corn;
A bag for bread, and a bag for beef.
And a bag for my little small horn.
The little horn was Robin’s own addition to
the outfit, and was used to call up his merry.
merry men to deal with the sheriff; but the
other complicated array of tucker-bags must
have been the usual thing and quite familiar
to the hearers of the ballad. The ancient
sundowner carrying malt to construct his
own beer by the way was an interesting
detail of the game. Apparently he must also
have carried a flourmill to grind the grain
he gathered on his journey.
W.
A Satchel of Books
The Bride of Corinth, by Anatole France
(John Lane). How is this for a magnificent
preface and a fine piece of translation?—
In this book I touch on high matters, and delicate
to handle; on religious matters. I have dreamed
again the dream of the ages of faith; I have
illuded myself with lively belief. To have treated
what is pious with impiety would have been to
lack the sense of harmony, i bring a sincere respect
to bear on matters sacred.
I know that there is no certainty outside science.
But I know also that the worth of scientific truth
lies in the methods of its discovery, and that these
methods are not to be arrived at by the common
run of mankind. It is hardly scientific to hold that
science may one da.y replace religion. So long
as man sucks inilk of woman, so long will he be
consecrated in the temple and initiated in some sort
of mystery. He will dream. And what matter
if the dream be false, so it be beautiful? Is it
not man’s destiny to be steeped in perpetual illu-
sion? Indeed, is not such illusion the very condi-
tion of life ?
In this way Anatole France introduces his
play, “The Bride of Corinth.” The transla-
tion is by Wilfrid and Emilie Jackson; and
all the prose makes racy and excellent Eng-
lish. The lyrics in the book are attractive;
but the verse of the “Bride of Corinth” itself
moves a little stiffly and has a metrical
flounder, or two. Everything, however, is
interesting; and a big mind flashes over
the whole. That is the best guarantee that
the translators have succeeded.
The World’s. Meat Future, by A. W.
Pearse, editor of the Pastoralists’ Re-
view, is a kind of butchering epic. The
author wanders the earth like another iEneas,
with the difference that no maleficent fates
divert him from his quest, which is that of
meat dead and on the hoof. Every country,
from America (where “the number of cattle
marketed during 1917 was 12,278,000”) down
to Japan (which, in the same year, “began
spending 30,000 yen annually on the rearing
of sheep”), is considered from the standpoint
of the stockman. Pearse has the true pastoral-
ist’s spirit, and quotes with evident approval
“an Australian now resident in Brazil,” who
writes: “I can truthfully state that, compar-
ing the two countries (Brazil and Australia),
I prefer Brazil; that is, there is no domineer-
ing Government whose one idea seems to be
to invent new taxes for those who keep the
country going, no labor unions whose one
idea seems to be the ruining of the honest
working-man,” etc. Yet he can take the
long view on occasion, as when he questions
Lord Harcourt’s forecast in the Hou.se of
Lords that Europe is in for “a scarcity of
meat —almost a war famine.” He holds the
comfortable, opinion that while conditions are
righting themselves “people will have learned
economy, the use of horse and whale flesh,
and the larger use of fish and cereals.” There
are some photographs of champion bulls and
cows that will be dwelt on lovingly wherever
a few cattle-raisers are gathered together.
(The Australasian Publishing Co.)
Mr. Preston’s Daughter, by Thomas Cobb
(John Lane). A story of war-time mating
in London, with half a dozen very well-
drawn characters, and an interest that is
sustained to the last chapter. One feels
quite sure that the apparently hopeless
tangle is going to work out all right; but
a less ingenious inventor couldn’t have
managed it, and a less capable writer
couldn’t have made it convincing.
Revolution in Russia and Australia, by
R. S. Ross (Ross’s Book Service, Mel-
bourne). “Bob” Ross, best-known of the
“rebel” journalists of Australia, has here
reprinted various articles written in Bris-
bane Worker and elsewhere. He set out
to examine Bolshevism from the point of
view of the advanced Australian socialist:
and, though his reading has obviously been
one-sided, he still isn’t ableAo persuade him-
self that Australia has any need of this
new idea in sudden death and general upset.
Bolshevism may have been necessary in
Russia; but Australia is not Russia. We
have universal suffrage. The power is with
the people. “If,” says Ross, “we do not
get the right sort of Labor Governments
and parties, our problem is how to get the
right sort.” And he might have added that
we won’t get the right sort through murder
and arson. They are a poor substitute for
the teacher, the propagandist. So far Ross
is sound. It is more difficult to agree with
him when he gives the leaders of Russian
Bolshevism credit for as much sincerity and
unselfishness as he possesses himself. There
are things he confesses he doesn’t under-
stand—things that don’t seem right. But
he is willing to swallow them —“doubtless
there is a reason” for this or that, he says
lamely. But that extreme friendliness only
accentuates the final conclusion that Bol-
shevism, with its preliminary revolution and
its system of soviets, is only for a poor,
benighted country, and is almost an insult
to Australia with its advanced democracy.
The Inky Way
“J.F.H.” (London) : Sydney impressed
the Times correspondent who accompanied
the Prince as “cosmopolitan, pleasure-
loving and cynical.” But the critic complains
that he and his brother-journalist visitors
were shunted into the tail-end of the royfcl
procession, where they could neither see nor
hear, and mentions that “the enthusiasm at
the G.-G.’s banquet was considerably damped
by the labored and almost inaudible rhetoric
of Mr. Hughes, who bored the company, if
not to tears, at least to unconcealed yawns.”
And the Prince himself does not escape
criticism. His speech on the same occasion
is dismissed as being “too much like an
article in a heavy review, and therefore not
suited for verbal delivery.” Which is really
a Times man overhauling the work of an
ex-TiMES man, his predecessor in his job.
Colonel Grigg was Overseas editor of the
paper before Long, who happened to be in
Sydney \yhen the Prince reached these
wrnters.


ms
mm®
alii
1
mtm
: 1, :
i'll
I :
.
T I,
1
w
v 'Hi
iv
■
!
i
i!
I
m
M
i
A
y*
i
m
w
I
i
K
l
-A
■ ■ ■
&r-
-|.VI„
V
L
£
%
s)
&
O
o
Vi,"":
I
1
I
o
j. "ii' .i
a :
I
I
i't;
#
i,
I
i
1
i
t
Ml: V 'ii
r
#
JS
I
JS
#
1
3
M
i
o->
A
lIIIIWI
m , —//• l
\/he*
I\oad 'round the
World
IT' criss-crosses every continent.
And every section of it differs.
Yet there is a type of ‘United
States’ tyre that exactly fits every
possible road surface.
‘United States' tyres have five dis-
tinct and different treads, which
appeal to Australasian motorists.
They are called: ‘Royal Cord,’
‘Nobby,’ ‘Chain,’ ‘Usco,’and ‘Plain’.
They are made by the world’s
largest rubber manufacturer.
United Stales Rubber Company
( A ustralasia) Limited,
53 York Street, Sydney.
130-2 William Street, Melbourne.
78 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
'United States'
Are GoodTi
Tir
RES
Obtainable from all leading garages and
A. SORRELL, 157 Castlereagh Street, Sydney * LAUNCESTON : Irvine & McEachern.
QUEENSLAND: Howard Motor & Cycle Co. Ltd, Brisbane. HOBART: Burgess Bros. Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Chas, Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Ltd., Perth .


m
Stock
Values,
like this slieep, are apt to jump. Sometimes
they fall. But the owner is on safe ground
who is well prepared for any happening.
Consign sheep and cattle to
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Alert salesmen, reliable, experienced and
expert.
Homebush Yards, Sydney.
Enoggera Yards, Brisbane.
nr
a
Mm
■flowing Made in various
Bottle size s and styles
de-mounted from l / 2 -pint up ,
KEEPS CONTENTS
Ice-Cold 72 hrs. Hot 24 hrs.
Icy-llot Bottles are
ideal for all climates
and are made for
hard usage.
Extra Protection is
ensured by a coiled
spring and pad under
bottle which absorbs
jolts and jars and
makes the bottle
practically mi brea k -
able.
Absolutely
Sanitary,
because the
spring - light
neck - til ting
prevents
leakage of liquid into the outer
case.
The Name ICY-HOT clearly
stamped on the bottom of each
bottle is a guarantee of the
Standard of Perfection.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES.
Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
The ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.,
159 West Second Street,
C ! *' rt! 'nnati, Ohio., TJ.S.A.
a
Icy-Tlot Jar
for solid food
or ice-cream.
mi
HP
II
111
U
M
ill
\ i
n
man
u'////&
Motor Bicycles
For Solo and Sidecar.
On a B.S.A. Motor Bicycle fitted
with
B.S.A. COUNTERSHAFT
.♦ THREE-SPEED GEAR
you can obtain all the power,
speed and comfort necessary ior
the complete enjoyment of Solo
or Sidecar Motor Cycling. The
various B.S.A. Models give ab-
solute reliability and service
under the most severe tests and
ar? very economical.
All B.S.A • Parts are
guaranteed interchangeable.
Send, for latest Catalogue showing
machines in actual colours, and con-
structional details exclusive to B S. A.
Models with full explanation.
D. Y. RENNIE
{representing H.S A. Co. Ltd.),
Au»u&iian Buildings, MELBOURNE
BENNETT 8 WOOD LTD., Pitt Street, Sydney.
MOTOR BICYCLES
"iIIMIIF
mfsmmum
mm
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
vdf
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
sd
BRAND
Containing about 95:75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS^
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary,, Limited
“Collins House," 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
K. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brockman
Buildings.
“A.W.” “ T.Y.R.” “A.w. PREMIER.”
ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH.
HIGH-SPEED DRILLS. HIGH-SPEED STEEL.
Sole Australian Representatives.—
Gilbert Lodge &. Co. Ltd
115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
y 500 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Inter-State -.Stocking Agents:—
A. SCOTT At CO.. 1(M Edward Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS At ROBERTSON, Ltd., Woranda Bldgs., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
( HAS. ATKINS At CO. (W.A.), Ltd., 81U Hay Street. Perth.
Manufactured by
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.,
Manchester, England.
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS-
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
An y Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Hostage to United
States, 3d.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS I
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
vfs
A PERFECT
SHAVE.
It’s British.
df
Christopher Johnson & Co.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Their Famous Full Hollow-Ground
Metropolitan Razor.
PRICE 10/6,
Of all Stores.
NORMAN
If unable to procure send Postal Note to their Agents,
BAKER & LONGHURST, 50 York Street, SYDNEY
328 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
URODONAL
' V "
m
m
:Y&
I .'SEf'fi
* *
MAINTAINS YOUTH OP THE
HEART AND ARTERIES.
It frees them from all the waste
products, uratic and chalky de-
posits which tend to harden their
walls.
This cleansing process may be compared to
the boiler and pipes of an engine, which
would certainly refuse to work were its
various parts allowed to become clogged
with accumulated dust and dirt.
The same rule applies to the human machine.
URODONAL dissolves uric
acid, removes sandy de-
posits from the heart
valves, prevents degen-
eration of the blood ves-
sels, which interferes with
normal circulation, there-
in- preventing overstrain
of the heart.
PRICE PER
BOTTLE, 10/9.
From all Chemists and
Druggists throughout
Australia.
Prepared by
Etablissements
Chatelain,
Paris.
Booklets containing Medical Opinions can be obtained from
C’ha tela in’s Australian Agency. 352 Kent Street, Sydney.
Business, Robbery, etc.
There’s luck even in dabbling' in old do' at
railway-luggage sales. At Wellington (M.L.)
recently a purchaser rummaging in the
pockets of an overcoat, found £7 10s. in
notes.
* * • * *
‘‘The Wanderer”: Bert Gill, of Jones’s
Island. Lower Manning (N.S.W.), recently
sold 30 head of fat bullocks to a. Sydney
buyer at £3O per head and refused an offer
of the same money for the balance running
in the paddock. The beef was bred by James
Moore, of Ivillawarra, near Wingham. Any-
one beat the record V
On the Vie.-N. S. Wales border there are
three places where everything has to be
unloaded and reloaded (if it isn’t broken
or stolen) because of the break of gauge
for which X. S. Wales was responsible 70
years ago. On one recent day, it is reported
in all seriousness, 752 N.S.W. trucks were
at these points, wasting time, earning no-
thing and just waiting to be unloaded. Pre-
sumably nearly as many Victorian trucks
were doing the same. The number of men,
horses and machines that were also wasting
time wasn't given, but that will have to he
added to the bill to get the cost of that
diversity of gauge which every new mile of
railway we build makes, more serious.
* * * *
“Iota”: There’s no job too big for the
Australian.. Melbourne Tramway Board
wanted a rope wheel of rather ponderous
dimensions for one of its engine-houses, and,
encouraged by the success of small jobs placed
locally, asked Andersolis, of Richmond (Vic.),
to build one. The wheel, which has been
cast and machined in sections, is completed
except for the final turning, which consists
of cutting the 10 grooves' for the driving ropes.
It weighs approximately 30 tons, and goes
23ft. diameter by 4ft. Gin. wide. This giant
will be turned in the mass, and will be
easily the biggest and heaviest job ever swung
in a lathe this side of the Equator.
* * * *
“Dido”: I have a fresh' plea for the tote
in Victoria. Any scamp who gets into
trouble hereabouts, and seeks to prove him-
self a useful member of society, invariably
asserts that lie is a bookmaker’s clerk.
Either the community of bookmakers’ clerks
is singularly maligned and unfortunate, or it
contains 90 .per cent, of the rogues and vaga-
bonds of the State. It is the opinion of tlie
police that "bookmakers’ clerk" is an elastic
term which covers more sins than charity,
and is the last resort of the afflicted black-
guard. With the tote in good going order
this avenue of escape for the rogue and vaga-
bond would of course be very limited, and a
large body of undesirables would be robbed
of their last lsit of cover.
* * * *
“Redfern” : If you want a testimonial for
N.S.W. railways don't ask a farmer. Cocky’s
idea is that consigning goods by train is
akin to taking a ticket in Tatt.’s. Trucks
that ought, to arrive in a couple of days take
anything lip to a week, and too often the
contents are damaged or “diminished” in
transit. Chaff is covered with leaky
"cloths” or with nothing at all. and gets to the
yards worth about £4 per ton less than the
consignor anticipated; in fact, Cocky may
be out anything up to £3O per truck. When
he growls he is curtly reminded that "no
responsibility is taken.” But why shouldn't
responsibility be taken V Overcrowded lines
may explain delay in delivery; but only
carelessness, or worse, can account for con-
signments being damaged or short weight.
* * * *
“Bison”: Wanting a new pair of brown
shoes. I asked mv bootmaker about if. lie
suggested crocodile-leather as being the most
up-to-date —at four guineas the pair. To
emphasise the charm of crocodile for the
purpose; lie lifted down a heavy roll of
leather and spread it before me. It was
an imitation —-just ordinary Cow-skin treated
to look scaly and oroekish. The bootmaker
laughed when I asked for the real thing in-
stead of imitation, and assured me that all
the crocodile shoes in Australia were made of
this imported stuff. Then he got off a great
joke: “You get me a real crocodile and I'll
buy it from you—ha ! ha ! ha !’’ There
seems something queer about it —in a country
which grows the beast, unaided 1 If one
shipload was brought from the North and
tanned, the foot-needs of every modish miss
in Australia could be honestly supplied.
And then how about: supplying the rest of
the world? Is it lack of good tanneries
or lack of initiative which forces us to put
up with this imported sham?
REPRESENTIN' TEA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Flicking idly at the backbone of an ancient creamy
horse,
While the sulky tyres are rattling on the stones,
And the white road stretches onwards on its ever-
lasting course,
And the ache of weary miles is in his bones.
Weary miles that go forever; houses few and far
between
Gates to open, rails to lower, all day long ;
In the newly-broken country, where a stranger’s
seldom seen,
And the bush birds still remember scraps of song.
Weary days when “Nothin' doing!” “Get me tea
p from the store!”
“Not to-day, I’ve got a stock in—twenty pounds!”
Is thi only compensation that the stranger at the
door
Gets to cheer the empty silence of his rounds.
So. he travels daily onwards on his everlasting beat,
Hawking lies about his tea from place to place,
Marking “prospects" in his notebook ; taking insults
us a treat :
keeping still a ragged smile upon his face.
And 1 fancy, as l watch him jogging slowly out of
sight,
That his thoughts at times Way stray away from
tea,
And his smile may grow less ragged as his eyes with
pit}’ ligtft
For the lonely bloke back yonder—which is Me.
N.s.w.
SPLINTER.


Kiii
©
The old-time prejudice against
Australian-made goods which
existed • for so long is rapidly disappearing, and
rightly so, too. To-day many Australian-made
articles are superior to the imported, and the public
is now realising the fact after trying both kinds. It
is impossible to enumerate them all, but Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills provide an excellent example.
Every process, from the grinding of the cfude drugs
to the packing of the finished articles, is carried out
under the supervision of the proprietors in their own
establishment. The plant is of the most modern type,
and a new machine recently installed will manufac-
ture one million pills per day. For nearly twenty
years Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills have been made
in Australia, and it is safe to say. that nowhere in any
country is a better pill made as regards high-grade
efficiency and general appearance. They are packed
in the well-known amber bottle, which protects them
from climatic changes, and thus reach the public in
perfect -condition.
□
Make One Feel Brighter.


fm
XL
y\
Y:
m
©
%
U
2®
Std
&
§§
O
$5
WM
<*
sS
o
£
s
*r
CHILDREN LIKE IT 1
It is not an easy matter
to get children to take
medicine.
Forcing it on them
makes matters worse.
Knowing this mothers
often give medicines
which, while palatable,
contain injurious drugs.
The great popularity
of Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is explained by
the fact that it contains
no narcotics, is pleasant
to take and children
like it.
Start when they are
babies and give them
Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy at the first
symptom of a cough or
cold.
There will be no forc-
ing them to take it--they
will ask for it, for child-
ren just love Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy.
There are parents who
to-day give this medicine
to their children because
they remember how
eagerly they themselves
took it when they were
kiddies.
Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy bears the Gov-
ernment Analysis show-
ing that it has been
officially declared free
from all narcotics.
This means a lot to
mothers of small child-
ren, for it is a positive
guarantee of safety.
JfeaJfax.
EE @ ILZ4Q GTO
\ COUCH REMEDY »
“ OIrtnBERLdIPJ
(COPYRICMTED)
$
*rrm
’ t ij : i
Dependability
The name Goodrich has appeared on more
tyres than any other in the world.
Why?
Because the name Goodrich stamped on a tyre
has stood, and stands, responsible for the superior
quality and service of millions of tyres.
Two generations of motor car owners have
tested Goodrich Tyres; two generations have
trusted Goodrich Tyres.
Goodrich Tyres are dependable.
DUVAL $ CO.,
Sydney,
Melbourne
& Brisbane
Farmers’ Co-operative Union, Adelaide
Goodrich
Tyres
Judge Ewing kept liis eyes open when
he was in Darwin. He has an orchard
at Brown’s River (Tas.), and as he
found that apples are a luxury in the
North he sent up 30 cages recently to test
the market. They were rushed at from 265,
to 30s. a case, even with Darwin in its pre-
sent depressed state.
Some Adelaide thieves lately made a haul
from a suburban shop. The owner chuckled
over the fact that they had saved him the
trouble and expense of carting away a few
tins of fish which he had put aside as unfit
for sale. They agreed with his estimate of
the goods, for a few days later, after paying
lOd. postage on a mysterious packet which
came by mail, he found one of his own tins
sent back to him as a mute protest.
“Dolphin” : A general who had a brilliant
career with the A.I.F. has been systemati-
cally studying the pre-war occupations of the
officers who passed through his hands. He
reckons that in proportion to numbers the
highest percentage of really first-class officers
came from Methodist parsons and ships’ offi-
cers, with engineers next. School-teachers
were usually either very good indeed or else
pretty bad. He was not able to trace any
marked difference in capacity to command
between city dwellers and country men, but
the country won most of the V.C.’s.
G. R. Sims, who has written more plays
of one sort or another —from “The Lights
of London” to pantomime —than any other
Englishman living, has been exclaiming over
the'luck of the modern dramatist. A recent
law-suit brought out the fact than an Ameri-
can author got 10 per cent, on gross receipts
of the London production and 25 per cent, of
the profits.. Sims recalls his first deal with
manager Charles Wyndham, who was entirely
friendly, but could not get the proprietors
to go beyond £5O down and £1 a night for
50 nights. About the same time—close on
half a century ago—he. translated from the
French the whole of Balzac’s “Droll Stories ’
—650 pages—for £5O.
“Yacko”: “D.F.” (B. 22/7/’2O) is quite
right. Salt was collected on Kangaroo
Island before the first record of it was made
in 1829. In 1818 the late George Bates,
then but 18, ran away from a whaleboat
which had come to the island to collect salt.
The same lakes are still being worked, but
with this difference: whereas in the old days
convicts carried the salt on their backs the
half-mile to the South Coast, whence it was
lightered by whaleboat to the waiting ship,
the carrying is now done over a six-mile tram-
way to the head of American River, whence
fhe stuff goes by steamer to Adelaide. Inci-
dentally, the mineral gathered is 98 per cent,
pure salt. George Bates was the leader of the
party that went in .search of Captain Collet
Barker when the latter was murdered by the
blacks at the mouth of the Murray in 1831.
“Fax” : Sarah Bernhardt, as the authoress
of a novel now. being published in serial form,
is probably taken more seriously abroad than
in Paris. What she, like many of lesser
notoriety, should have started to do long ago
was to keep a diary. She has been a much
talked-about person these 55 years, for she
made outrageous bids for advertisement— -by
rearing baby-tigers in coffins, and little things
of that sort —even earlier than the Franco-
Prussian war. The tour of the world that
Abbey and Gr.au fixed up for her was a
lovely experience for a diarist, had Sarah
been one to devote 20 minutes a day to
making notes in a little book. All the
material for compiling a great'record of the
times came ready to her hand as she pursued
her royal way, and she might now be leisurely
completing “Fifty Years of Celebrity” in-
stead of grinding out a long-winded novel
which “introduces many famous people.”
Those famous people ought to have taken
their places naturally in a diary.
The first of the new sovereigns to be dis-
carded is the picturesque Fizzle or Feisal
of Syria. He was no great soldier, but was
allowed to take a lot of credit that didn’t
belong to him in order to encourage other
bands Of ragamuffins to join the Allies at
a time when all sorts of job-lot friends were
better than none. The Peace Conference
gaze Fizzle a hearing, and found him a fine
figure of a man in his best Friday robes and
his jewellery, and almost as eloquent as
Thomas Joseph Ryan. Hardened diplomat-
ists had to empty the tears out of their
despatch-boxes after hearing him hold forth
about the woes of his country and the great-
ness of the old Brian Boru family of Arabia.
So he got a trial as hereditary King of
Syria and made just one mistake; he mis-
took himself for Nebuchadnezzar or some
real king, and with France his enemy all
the time he at last consented to go out.
What it cost Britain hasn’t been mentioned,
and probably never will be, though really
whatever it is it ought to be charged up to
U.S.A., whose dilatoriness made such en-
tanglements necessary.
“Centurion” on camouflage—the military,
not the political variety:—
The latest teller of war “secrets” is Solomon J.
Solomon, the painter, who late in the war was put
in charge of a British school for training artist-
soldiers in camouflage. Solomon claims to have
invented the overhead-netting device, which was
about the most effectual of all screens from aerial
observation. He scoffs at the post-impressionist
designs used early in the war, because no matter
how the object was colored, its shadow gave it
avvav, whereas the overhead net, by breaking up the
contrast between the object and its shadow, con-
cealed beth. The second great success in camouflag-
ing was the utilisation (by the enemy) of artificial
slopes which, casting no shadows, and tricked out
on top with painted crops, roads and buildings, com-
pletely deceived our airmen. Beneath these the
Germans hid thousands of men, with guns and
material, during their concentration in 1918. As they
retired they burned niost of these shelters, but enough
were left to astonish our troops. Overhead netting
waSs also employed by the Hun on a vast scale
instead of merely as cover for gun positions, as
with us. Solomon asserts that, prior to the great
German advance, he discovered several large areas
of sham fields under which troops were hidden
discovered them by simply noting the absence of
shadow where shadow should be. and vice versa, but
G.H.Q. wouldn’t listen, and the canvas-hidden troops
remained unbombed.


REPUBLIC
m
.
Wx
s mm
m
I
ft
m
m*
tm
IH
'
;;, U H*t W/fSV-WKV- . .
U’t I /■!; <• V
I LOTT
Transportation ceased to
be a problem immediately
Republic Trucks were put
in by the firms whose
names appear on the sides
of the trucks pictured
here.
You, too, can get an up-to-date
delivery system with a low main-
tenance cost if you instal Republic
Trucks, because they will give you
a greater mileage each day, longer
service and fewer repair bills.
Republic Trucks have proved in
various parts of the Globe that they
will do this.
Through these performances they
have earned their right
THE INTERNAL
GEAR DRIVE.
Used on all Republic
Trucks. It delivers
1)2 p.c. of the motor
power to the wheels.
to the title:
Republics
* • FOR
Service
Don’t remain in doubt as
to whether your delivery
system is too expensive.
Get expert advice regard-
ing the service Republic
Trucks will give you.
Call or write to your near-
est Agent, and full infor-
mation will be promptly
supplied without any obli-
gation to you.
If your delivery system is
not efficient you are losing
money, so don’t delay in-
quiring.
REPUBLIC
TRUCKS
New South Wales Agents:
LARKE, HOSKINS & CO., LTD.,
237-9 Castlereagh Street.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Victorian Agents:
PRESTON MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
High Street, PRESTON,
VICTORIA.
Queensland Agents:
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR
AGENCY (Q.), LTD.,
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE,
QUEENSLAND.
New Zealand Agents:
INGLIS BROS. & CO., LTD.,
WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND.
W. A. CROWIiTE, LTD.,
Sydney Factory Distributors.


sf
HOLEPROOF HOSE
have been bought bo
millions of people for
many gears. That fact
alone is proof enough
of extra ordinary
value .
Have pou ever thought
what YOU map be mis-
sing bp going without this
brand ?
Here is practicallp . . .
ABSOLUTE FREEDOM
from darning and pou
have the choice of pure
silk and due lisle.
s
If your
dealer is
unable to
supply you.
write us.
Indents and
Wholesale thru
A LTE R
ATH R O
PTY. LTD.
*0 Yo p k S t
SYDNEY.
ON A LINER, A YACHT,
MOTOR BOAT, A CHANNEL
STEAMER, A COASTER or
A TRADER
SRSTHERSILL’S SEASICK REMEDY
is guaranteed to prevent and cure Sea Sick-
ness, or money refunded. Equally effective
for Train Sickness.
3
•1
has been tested on the English Channel, Irish
an l Baltic Seas by representatives of leadin
London /and Contin enlal newspapers, who
unreservedly endorse its unfailing power to
prevent and cure mal-de-tner.
“The London Yachting World” says: A posi
'sve cure for sea-sickness. Be sure it’s “Mothersill’s.”
No Bad After Effects.
All Chemists, in Large and Small Boxes,
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO., LTD..
Aberdeen House. 204 Clarence Street. Sydney.
the. worlds
BEST VALUE
Baby is a
Connoisseur
in his own little way. He likes
and must have—the best.
You cannot be too cautious in
selecting his food. Use a proved,
food a food which has been in
the front rank for many years.
Mellin's Food is the proved most
efficacious equivalent to Mother’s
Milk, and satisfactorily fulfils all the
requirements of an artificial food.
Mellin's
Food
Set out to feed b*bjr right. Next to breast-feed-
ing. the Mellin’s Feeding Bottle has most advan-
tages. A trial convinces you.
A Sample of Mellin’s Food, with Handbook for
Mothers. “The Care of Infants in Australia.’’ free.
MESSRS. GOLLIN & QO- PROPRIETARY, LTD.
SYDNEY
11«I
$2
%
i
G.
"2*
m
&
%
I#
%
i
G
&
%
ss*&
fes
*fa
&
3
-V
2 :
<2
*
%
Thistle Shirts
feel so good over the I
shoulders, arms, the
chest and down the
back that men who
wear them forget
they have shirts on.
See that Your
Next Shirt bears
the Thistle Label
Sold by all Leading
Shirt Departments.
Try Thistle Pyjamas
Alexander Stewart 8 Sons
Limited
Makers
Brisbane and Sydney
A.S. 21
M
B
&
£
AC
<2
$
If 111
%
AC
<sz
2» iw
mis
»vB
AC
Mat^
*%
irrn^^
m
9
K
Tiib lb
C&nno
Cleaiw I
PLegul a
British
AaK for ONQTQ Ih k Z
lajK.
elf.
fcure.
Bea * for all Pen*
the: palace hotel,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
Australians on Service Found
That There Is
NO BRANDY LIKE COGNAC BRANDY
and NO COGNAC
BRANDY LIKE
MARTELL’S
j
m
Vf*
The Dip you will Buy Again
Everywhere Vallo is rendering distinguished service.
Last season’s users are more than satisfied with the
results which this excellent Australian Dip has given
them. From all corners of the Continent come letters
conveying appreciation and repeat orders.
IJSl ifif
Powder SHEEP DIP
is finding its way to every important station, its never-
failing efficacy, its long-lasting protection, and its
beneficial action upon the sheep are features which have
impressed every one who has used it—and they will
impress you. Order your supplies now from your
storekeeper.
Look for the
fs
Trade Mark
war.
Manufactured by A. VICTOR_LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE . SYDNEY . BRISBANE
5i
Elated at his promotion from the fifth to
the next class in the Vic. State service a
clerk dropped in to wet it. He told Ilche
in a confidential tone that he had “got my
fourth at last!” “Is it a boy or a gillV 1 ’
she asked languidly, and he didn’t call again
for a week.
There is talk of saving a Hit on the £4OO
a year that has long been paid to the Chair-
man of Committees of the Vie. House of
Dreariness now that a successor to Sachse
has to be picked. The Chamber sits on
an average once a week for no more than
six months a year, and £3OO. or about £lO
a sitting, is as much as even the hungriest
guinea-pig would dare to suggest that a
commercial concern should pay him.
Joe Hannan, who represented Fawkner in
the House of Heps, until Maxwell shoved
him out, has fallen on his feet as assistant-
see. of Melbourne Trades Hall. Joe had a
safe State seat at Albert Park, but quitted
it to have another run for the old job at
Fawkner, and missed. Luckily for him
Charlie Gray (sec.) resigned, and Holloway
(ass.-sec.) moved up one, leaving a paid
seat for someone to drop into. Joseph
dropped into it.
"Warrie”: “Vails." he sail!, ‘T wuz
work-in’ at a sawmill once, un a little Scotch
bloke wuz on a saw. He wuz a Hielander,
un his talk wuz that broad it got jambed
in hifi mouth sometimes. Well, one day I
had brought down some logs un wuz strollin’
aroun' havin' a smoke un thiukin’ things
out, when I come across Scotty pokin’ about
among tli' sawdust with a stick. ‘Wot’s
wrong, Scotty T sez I. It seems he’d tried
his fist on th’ edge uv th’ saw un tli’ darned
thing had chopped a couple uv his finvors
orf. He wuz pokin’ about trying to find
’em. ‘ ’Struth,’ says I, ‘get out uv the
Manky road. I’ll find yer flamin’ fingers
fer yer.’ I reaches down ter me hip un
pulls a traybit out uv me pocket. Then I
just waves it about th’ top uv th’ sawdust-
heap, un up pops them two fingers fair
itehin’ ter get a grip on the tray.”
The romance of a bad smell:—
When the Javanese sugar refiner found supplies
of sulphate of ammonia from Germany cut off,
the Englishman began to get orders. But as ship-
ping became paralysed, Java commenced combing
tire rest of the world, and in the second year of the
war was buying largely in Australia. Prices rose
quickly, and Soon the local manufacturer of fer-
tilisers and makers of dehydrated ammonia for tuse
in freezing works were being asked £25 a ton
for what had been more or less of a drug on the
market at £l2. Gas cos., the Sulphide Corporation
and the Broken Hill Prop, were getting undreamed-
of profits by converting a smellful liquid into
chemical salts. The cry from the freezing people
and manure-makers was loud enough to wake the
dead, and Hughes, rushing in with the War Precau-
tions Act, compelled the gas cos. and others to
make 40 per cent, of their output available for
local use at £lB a ton, the balance being left
for sale to the frantic gentlemen in Java, who,
getting record prices for sugar and dreading an
ammonia famine, were offering almost any price
for supplies. Australia was doing well selling for
export at £35 and £4O a ton, and with the
Japanese also buying against Java the reduction of
coal to sulphate of ammonia was more profitable
than plain gas-making. As 100 tons of coal may
yield a ton of sulphate, the by-products of the gas-
works were for a time the real money-spinners. But
towards the close of last year, when the Jap began
to find a hole in his pocket and stopped buying,
and when competitive supplies began to drift to
“the East” from England, the market commenced
to shrink rapidly. England could then sell fairly
cheaply, and Australian makers—or some of them—
reckoned it would be good business to provide for
future deliveries if the Javanese would come down
to contracts. One of those who thought so was
the Australian Gaslight Co., of Sydney: it sold
nearly a year’s output for export at from £l9 10s.
to £2l 10s. a ton. But John Bull was just then
in serious holts with the Welsh and Durham miners.
Supplies of sulphate were urgently required for the
vineyards in Italy and France. Prices began to
go up again, and to the horror of the Gaslight Co.
it discovered Javanese buyers rushing round the
Commonwealth again, with quotations playing leap-
frog from £35 to £45, while Sydney’s surplus was
being packed off at £l9 and £2l. Meanwhile the
Sulphide Corporation and the B.H.P. and the Mel-
bourne gas people were on the flood-tide, so to
speak. Until a week or two ago Sydney Gaslight
gnashed its teeth in silence, and then it had a
brain wave. A rush was made to the Necessary
Commodities Commission, with a proposition that, as
the price of producing gas had gone up 38 per cent,
in three years, the Commission should increase
the fixed price of sulphate of ammonia sold for
local consumption from £lB to £25 a ton. “We
are quite disinterested,” it was explained. “If the
increase is granted Ad. a thousand cubic feet less
can be charged for gas. If it is not, Jd. a thousand
more will have to he charged.” Nothing was said
about how much the price of gas would have been
reduced if, instead of selling ammonia on a falling
market for future delivery, the co. had kept its
feet warm and continued exploiting Java. But
what was revealed was that the cost of manufac-
turing the sulphate was £8 a ton; that every ton
sold for local use at £lB showed a profit of 125
per cent.; that an increase to £25 would give a
profit on manufacture of 2121 per cent. Merely
as an aside someone mentioned that if 212 A per
cent, was reckoned a fair profit for a gas co. to
make on a raw material required by other manufac-
turers, the profits of the Broken” Hill group on
ammonia would become fabulous. The Commission
said “No!” and the distracted Gaslight Co. retired
with the same pained expression it wears when the
furnace-shovellers start howling for another tuppence
an hour.
TOLD BY THE TELLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tlio heavy swing-doors bothered him,
Then closed behind him with a crash,
This youth from Outback, tall and slim.
Come to the bank his cheque to cash.
He slipped and clattered on the tiles :
Ilis nervous state was plain to see.
The staff, hard-hearted, all wore smiles;
They watched him as he came to me.
“How will you take the cash?" I asked,
In friendly tone, with manner bland.
He spoke, his slow, shy smile unmasked:
“I think I’ll take it in me 'and."
TASMANIA.
N. S. F.


A World-wide Good
Name.
r !his business has not grown just because the
automobile business lias grown.
It has grown because there has grown up
in America.' and all over the world, a
demand for the kind of Motor Car Dodge
Druthers build.
It has grown because the users of these cars
have given Dodge Brothers a good name
as careful, conscientious manufacturers.
Abe result is that wherever these two words
—1 fudge Brothers —are seen, they stand
as a symbol of exceptional Motor-Car
value.
Even when they appear, all atone, on a
window or wall, or a .signboard, they
instantly mean something special and
significant to the passer-by.
They call up a picture of a particular kind
of Motor Car.
‘ *r. to be exact, a particular kind of Motor
Car workmanship, which people have
come to associate with the name Dodge
Brothers.
The two words—Dodge Brothers—are an
advertisement in themselves, not merely
in America but the wide world over.
The first thought that follows, wherever they
are seen, is the thought of a car that
is reliable.
r,l he name has come to suggest integrity—
integrity in the car, integrity in the
manufacturing and business methods of
the men who build it.
Such a good name is, of course, almost
priceless in value.
Dodge Brothers are keenly alive to that
fact.
They realise that the permanence of their
business rests upon the continuance of
that good name.
They realise that such a name is a per-
petual promise to the people, which
must be perpetually fulfilled by a finer
and finer product.
As long as the name is attached to their
Motor Car, Dodge Brothers may be
depended upon to safeguard and protect
it.
As long as they build Motor- Cars they will
be the best Motor Cars Dodge Brothers
can build.
Every dealer in Dodge Brothers Cars knows
that the customers who co'me to 'him,
come with the highest possible expecta-
tions.
He knows that the thing he is selling
primarily is Bodge Brothers’ word and
their good name.
He knows that he is not merely dealing in
Motor Cars, but acting as custodian for
Dodge Brothers' reputation.
He knows that he is selling through honest
effort something not only built by man.
but built of men to be sold to men by
a man.
Only the owners know how solid the car
really is.
They know that the strength,' sturdiness and
power of the car, combined with light-
ness. make it a good traveller on the
roughest roads.
It stands up. It invites constant use.
With a little care it will stay in com-
mission continually and give as good
service in'its second or third year’as in
its first.
That is why the second-hand price is only
a little lower than the first price.
Dodge Brothers’ world-wide reputation for
reliability is reflected in the splendid
performance of their Motor Car.
dfv
Dddbeßrothers
MDTDR CAR
It brings to country roads precisely the
0 same qualities that render it a delightful
car to drive in the town.
It is as simply and easily handled, and
rides with the same splendid steadiness
in the one case as in the other.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
Dodbe Brothers
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.,
.Melbourne.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland) l<td,j
Standardised Motors, Limited
Sydney.
Winterbottom Motor Co., £.td.,
I’erth.
Cheney Motor Co v Ltd.,
Adelaide.
SAFEGUARD YOU* health
nrJ.Coftis Browne’s
CWorody^c
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Co/c/s, Asthma,
iuul ill tlie Cougli of BRONCHITIS anil
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE. RHEUMATISM,
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
SOLD IN BOTTLES.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3 and 3/-.
Made in England.
sdfv
A Model
Hairdressing Saloon
The finest in Sydney—equipped
with every modern appointment,
convenience and comfort.
Craig 8 Aitkea’s Saloon Employs
Seven Expert Hairdressers —
men whose training and experi-
ence have been gained in the
best saloons of the world.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY will
find Oraig and Aitken’s Saloon
conveniently near the Central
Railway Station —almost next
door to Anthony Horderns’.
Prompt Service Guaranteed.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR, illustrated above, and for which Craig and Aitken’s
are Sole Agents in Australia, is the Razor we have used in our Saloon for over
30 years. Thousands of “Plum” Razors are sold annually. Its finely-
tempered edge keeps keen against the strongest beard.
PRICE 12/6 POST FREE; or Pair in Double Case, 25/-
W e keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG § AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
Do the job properly—fit a
TAN-SAD
on your motor-bike and carry your com-
panion in -4'eal comfort and safety. Get
our booklet from your dealer.
the t \n-sai> works,
(T . 11. Headley) ,
Freeman Street. BIRMINGIfiVH, ENG.
Agents for Australia:
Cashmore & Russell, Nelson House,
383-5 Clarence St., Sydney, AUSTRALIA.
. 1
12S0A.
sd
A
m
i
m
i
I
3
m
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Hercules Oil Engines
This Engine is Built Throughout at
Our Own Works.
Best BRITISH MODEL (operating
entirely on Kerosene, no petrol even
for starting) ; starting effected by
Lamp, which is removed immediately
after.
NUMEROUS SATISFIED USERS.
MADE IN SIZES—3, 4,5, 6> and 8 BRAKE-HORSEPOWER.
Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd.
MERCHANTS, ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS.
418-424 AND 450-460 ANN STREET. BRISBANE.
(Trains pass near by.) Works—Yeerongpilly. [2


A. Saunders’ Salad Bowl and Servers, Crystal Cut-
glass Bowl, pure Silver-plated Mounts and Servers,
50/-
A. Saunders’ Cheese Dish, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, highly burnished and engraved, £6/6/-
A. Saunders’ Fern Pot, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, hand fluted, highly burnished, £7/7/-
Silverplate
Table Appointments.
A. Saunders’ “Victory” Coffee Set and Tray, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, highly burnished and engraved, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’ Fruit and Flower Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, hand
burnished, detachable Tubes and Trays, pierced design, £.'o.
A. SAUNDERS,
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Cake Stand, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, hand pierced, highly burnished,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Entree Dish, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, highly burnished, plain design, Gadroon->
edging, £5/5/-
>
c
a
A. Saunders’ Fruit Stand, pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, A 1 quality, hand' pierced and burnished,
£5/10/-
JEWELLER, 805-815 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION), SYDNEY.
►S3
Sf?;-
<T“
Vi
\
S$
jujtPt
<e
ra
tew
r-; : W
N.
«
■DR
< ’?Bi
X 0
•m
t
gpi**"
l£336*W**
fvsd
CJ Write to-day to Nestle’s, 347 Kent Street,
Sydney, for Free Copy of a Valuable
Cookery Book containing over 100 recipes
for cooking with
Perfect scones —perfect
cakes, puddings and blanc-
manges when you cook
with Nestle’s Milk.
“ Nestle’s ” cooking is
both economical and easy.
You save eggs, sugar and
butter —you save trouble
Nestle’s Condensed Mi
Made in Australia.
N2OO


Amusement:*.
Harry KicUards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH U. AlclN iOali.
-J- IVOLI TIIEA T It 15, SVUNE Y.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.00.
ROBERT COURTNEIDGE’S ENGLISH COMEDY
COMPANY in
THE MAN FROM TORONTO.
Plans at Nicholson's and the Tivoli.
"J“IVOJH THEATRE, MELBOURNE-
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents Miss LEE WHITE,
London’s Idol, in
BRAN PIE.
Prices as usual.
HR It MA.IKS T Y ’ S, sYI>N E V.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST TW r O NIGHTS OF KISSING TIME.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 21,
THE J. C. WILLIAMSON ROYAL COMIC OPERA
COMPANY in
MAYTIME.
Plans at Paling’s.
Clt IT R It I <» N T H RA T It IC. SYDNEY.
Lessees: J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE MUSICAL COMEDY SUPREME,
IRENE.
Plans at Paling’s.
JHEA T 11 E It O I’AL, SYDN E Y.
EVERY EVENING.
THE LAUGU OF THE CENTURY.
THE BOSS COCKIE,
The most humorous Australian comedy ever written.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
PA LA C R TIIEAT It E, SYI) N E V
Lessees: J. & N. TAIT.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
TILLY OF BLOOMSBURY.
A Comedy Drama of Laughter and Tears.
Plans at Nicholson’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
O W N H A L 1.. S Y I) N E Y.
Direction J. and N. TAIT.
M. MOISEIVVITSCH.
Two Special CONCERTS with M. I-lenri Verbrugghen
and the State Orchestra on TUESDAY, AUGUST 24,
at .8; and SATURDAY AFTERNOON, AUGUST 28,
at 3. Also one PIANOFORTE RECITAL on THURS-
DAY AFTERNOON. AUGUST 26.
Box Plan at Nicholson’*s.
BRITANNIA THEATRE. .IIMLIIO L JtN IS
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Amusements.
u
N lON IMC TUIt E TII 15-A Tltls S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD'S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE. LYRIC. EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS.
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
LTD. MELBOURNE
■ ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
NEXT SATURDAY, AUGUST 21.
Revival of GILBERT & SULLIVAN OPERAS.
THE YEOMEN OF THE GUARD.
THEATRE' ROYAL.
NEXT SATURDAY, AUGUST 21, a grand revival of
a musical joy-ride at high speed:
THE GIRL IN THE TAXI.
Plan at Allan’s. Price 3 as usual.
I NO’S THEATRE. M E I. It O Si It N E.
Lessees: BAILEY .1' GRAN I’
Direction ,T. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
JOHN D. O’HARA in
THREE WISE FOOLS.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Lessees: BEN & JOHN FULLER, LTD.
Direction ALLAN WILKIE.
K
ALLAN WILKIE AND COMPANY, including#
FREDISWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
in
THE ROTTERS.
No. 2 Company, in “THE ROTTERS,” now Touring
South Island of New Zealand.
■Address G.P.0., Wellington, N.Z.
Town h all, melbouhn e.
Direction J. and N. TAIT.
JOHN McCORMACK,
the greatest lyric tenor the world has produced.
3rd CONCERT—THURSDAY, 19th AUGUST.
4th CONCERT—SATURDAY, 21st AUGUST.
sth CONCERT—TUESDAY, 24th AUGUST.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
ATHEN/EUM HALL. MELBOURNE.
Direction JOHN J. MAHER.
MONDAY, AUGUST 23; WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 25.
NORMAN PEARCE,
The Gifted Stage and Platform Celebrity.
GEMS FROM POPULAR AUTHORS.
Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plus Tax. Plan at Glen’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES. MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
WILLIAM RUSSELL in
SHOD WITH FIRE,
anil
HARRY CAREY as the
ACE OF THE SADDLE.
Prices as usual.
ELBA
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
M
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SELZNICIv.
t?
' i
Eight-hour Art Union U Sports.
PRIZES VALUE £3500.
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
Drawn OCTOBER 30, 1920.
Ist Prize, value £750. 2nd Prize, value £3OO.
3rd Prize, value £2OO. And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year waS won by A. O. and J. O. Paxton,
of Cairns, Queensland, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1920.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in The Bulletin on
Thursday, November 4, 1920. To any person 'forwarding
stamped, addressed envelope, a list of the results will be
posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all towns, or direct
from ARTHUR W. YAGER, Secretary, Eight Hour Committee,
Trades Hall, Sydney.
calling?
vfsd
==_
To the Tourist, Scientist, Investor
and, with a hundred voices from her millions
ol acres, to the Man in search of Land.
Free Information on all subjects
available at once on receipt of this coupon.
Address-
Queensland Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Brisbane. ~ ~
S.B.
Superb Music for
your home.
The sweet mellow tone of
the Edison Amberola, pro-
duced by means of the
Diamond Stylus Reproducer,
at once impresses you with its
superiority.
It gives beautiful reproductions of in-
strumental music and singing—serious
and humorous numbers are reproduced
with exceptional clearness and fidelity
to the original.
Jou should certainly hear this instru-
ment play at your Edison dealer’s, or
write for details, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale onl
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
fvs
Amusement*.
jyjAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
SESSUE HAYAKAWA in
THE BEGGAR PRINCE.
Matinfies daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
THE
GLACIARIUJt,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
For Sale.
FOR SALE.
New Ut il ty Gas Plant
100-LIGHT CAPACITY.
Operates on Petrol.
< las can be used for cooking and lighting.
Suitable for Church. Hall, Hospital, etc.
Easy to operate and maintain.
Price and particulars from—
Box 425 G.P.0., Sydney.
Form 136.] No. 1.2835
STATUTORY NOTICE TO CREDITORS.
RE JOHN HAYES, late of Port Danvin, in tin
Northern Territory of Australia, ganger,
deceased.
Notice is hereby given that all Creditors and
other persons having claims against the Estate of
the above-named John Hayes, late of Port Darwin,
in the Northern Territory of Australia, deceased, who
died, on or about the Thirtieth Day of December.
1919, a.d., at sea between Pt. Darwin and Thursday
Island, are hereby required to send their claims to
the Public Curator, Brisbane, on or before the
Twenty-fifth Day of January, 1921. And that after
the expiration of the last-mentioned date the Public
Curator will proceed to distribute the assets of the
said deceased amongst the parties entitled thereto,
having regard only to the claims of which he shall
then have had notice.
Dated this Twentv-third Day of July, 1920.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Official Solicitor to the Public Curator, Brisbane.
Legal Notices.
TO RICHARD EDMONDS, half-brother
of Michael Edmonds, deceased, and. last
heard of in Tipperary, Ireland, and all per-
sons claiming by,-through or under him.
Pursuant to an Order, made on the Bth
day of June, 1920, by a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand, you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on or
before the Ist day of January, 1921, your
claim to the estate of the above-named
Michael Edmonds, who died intestate at
Martinborough, New Zealand, on the 10th
day of January. 1918, failing which the
estate will be distributed among those en-
titled thereto disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this 11th day of
June, 1920.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office.
Wellington, New Zealand.
TO ARTHUR GORDON GOODRICH,
father of Gordon Goodrich, also
known as Arthur Gordon Goodrich, deceased,
and last heard of in Christchurch, New
Zealand, and all persons claiming by, through
or under him.
Pursuant to an Order made on the Bth
day of June. 1920. by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the Ist day of December,
1920. your claim to the estate of the above-
named Gordon Goodrich, also known as
Arthur Gordon Goodrich, who died intestate
at Ilanmer, New Zealand, on the 10th day
of November, 1918, failing which the estate
will be distributed among those entitled
thereto disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this lltli day of
June, 1920.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office.
Wellington, New Zealand.
Missing Friends.
[N the Estate of PETER McDONNELL,
late of Clermont, in the State of
Queensland, Miner, deceased.
The next of kin of the abovenamed
deceased are requested to immediately com-
municate with the undersigned.
J. R. GAIR,
Deputy Public Curator,
Supreme Court, Rockhampton.
Executor of deceased’s will.
Pay for your share
of Freedom!
Australia is free to-day. YOU
are enjoying this freedom. It
is worth paying for.
Subscribe to the
SECOND PEACE LOAN
—to-day—and show your ap-
preciation in a profitable way.
CJ Your Banker, Broker or
Authorised Agent will give
you full particulars.
The Banks will help you to raise your
share of the £25,000,000 required by
lending you 90% at 5% interest on the
security of the Bonds themselves.
PEACE BONDS BEAR 6% INTEREST.
JOSEPH COOK, Treasurer.
FEDERAL TAXATION RETURNS NOW DUE.
INCOME TAX:
(Income derived during year ended 30th June, 1920.)
businesses 31st AUGUST, 1920
LAND TAX:
(Land owned at Noon on 30th
June, 1920.) 31st AUGUST, 1920
WAR-TIME PROFITS TAX:
(Profits derived during the year
ended 30th June, 1919.) .... 31st AUGUST, 1920
FORMS OF RETURN MAY BE OBTAINED AT POST OFFICES OR MY OFFICE.
FULL DETAILS OBTAINABLE FROM MY OFFICE.
T. S. HLLME,
• , t, Acting-Deputy Commissioner of Taxation.
Federal Taxation Office, Marwick Building,
Hamilton Street, Sydney.


■■■■■•••a
«« —"—‘-MMi »«• j
dvf
£
tTpdftr
(53
be
f
ENGLISH SOCKS at 5/9
Black Cashmere —All Wool.
Men who hitherto have had to pay high prices for socks, and
unable at that to get British makes, will welcome this oppor-
tunity to procure an all-wool Black Cashmere British Quality
at 5/9 per pair.
These socks are very good value—a reliable quality for wear
and color-retention.
The price shows a definite saving when compared with the
average quotations for English socks to-day.
5/9 pair ; 33/- half-dozen pairs.
Peapes’ pay postage.
Please state size of boot.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Maytime”
Criterion “Irpnp”
“The Boss' Cookie”
Ralace “Tilly of Bloomsbury”
iivoli , “‘The Man from Toronto”
t 7° VT s .... Moving Pictures
Lnion Theatres Moving Pictures
1 own Hall .... Moiseiwitsch and State Orchestra
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Yeomen of the Guard*’
Royal “The Girl in the Taxi”
King's “Three Wise Fools”
Princess's “The Rotters”
Tivoli “Bran Pie”
Hoyt's De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciarium Dancing
Athenaeum Hall Norman Pearce
Town Hall John McCormack
♦
The English drama is a clipped hedge of
many years’ growth enclosing a cultivated
field; the Australian drama (so far) is a
post-and-rail fence put up, mostly in a hurry,
for characters to sit on. In construction
Randolph Bedford’s “The Boss Cookie.” now
offered to Sydney at the Royal, is a rough
thing which will leave splinters in the pants
of the captious critic. Nevertheless, even as
presented, the play is well worth sampling
for three or four types and the flashes of
Australian humor that keep the laughter
rippling like a creek while the plot creaks
and groans.
* * * *
Aladdin Biddulfson, an adventurous Aus-
tralian, is turned down on the score of
poverty by the daughter of Coldfeet Jones,
a Stock Exchange “bear.” Aladdin goes to
the bush and discovers a stranded dramatic
co.. a mine, a better girl, the Boss Cockie
and happiness. , His splendid progress is
haunted by a strayed melodrama villain who
makes a feeble effort to steal his mine and
his girl, but never for a minute looks dan-
gerous. The play ends with Biddulfson and
his partner, the Boss Cockie, in evening-
dress, regarding with pride their made for-
tunes and a prosperous country town which,
by stage moonlight, looks perhaps as it
should —like a plain woman in her best dress.
* * * *
Richard Bellairs has scarcely the power
for the very large job of Biddulfson. One
feels that he really couldn’t lead a stranded
dramatic co., transform a caricature
tragedian into a passable swindler, discover
a mine and foil a villain. C. R. Stanford
has an easier patch as Grouthead the Boss
Cockie. He makes him a likeable old bush
Moses who hasn’t enough education to read
the tables of the mining law. Gwen Dorise
makes a satisfactory appeal as heroine Vera
Pardon. Ethel Raye wakes up the stage
as a hysterical soubrette ; and Beryl Mun-
day, as Judy Grouthead, yells her conversa-
ton like a true Daughter of the Bush. Vivian
Edwards (Jimmy from the Wire Fence on
the bills) slouches about morosely with a
mouth-organ avoiding conversation and
rather overdoing his plaint, “Too much for-
kin’—forkin’—forkin’!” Marjorie Soper is
quietly natural as the calculating, friendly
Vanilla Jones, daughter of Coldfeet; and the
bush dipso, who reports at intervals of the
flood, “Th’ tank’s full!” has about the
shortest and most effective Australian part
yet written.
** * *
Considered as dramatic dress-goods “The
Man from Toronto” is flimsy stuff; but it
is as clean as this sunny morning after
“The Boss Cookie,” at
Sydney Royal.
Tom Grouthead ( C.
R. Stanford) grows
reminiscent.
rain, has been
neatly joined to-
gether, and the
English co. of
specialists wear it
gracefully. After a
Niagara of raw
American dramas
it comes as a relief
to eye and ear, and
all Sydney should
make a trip to the
Tivoli to see it, and
encourage other
managements to go
and do likewise.
The artificial cen-
tral idea has moss
on it. An old mil-
lionaire who was
rejected by a pretty
young English
widow he met
while travelling
dies and wills his
fortune of £BOO.OOO
to his Canadian
nephew, on condition that he seeks
out the lady who rejected poor old Uncle
and marries her. If he fails, he gets a
mere £lO,OOO and the rest goes to charity.
Of course charity doesn’t get the rest; and
that’s the story.
* * * *
Margaret Swallow is piquant and alto-
gether charming as the widow in the case.
George Tully makes a virile lover whose
table manners improve at extraordinary
speed. Joseph F. Graham, as the old family
solicitor, is natural enough to be given abso-
lute charge of all this office’s trust funds
to-morrow. Marie Rignold’s deep contralto
and majestic presence make the elder sister
very real. Rosalind Courtneidge, as a
pretty, slangy Canadian flapper, pairs off
nicely with Ronald Ward, who, as the
widow’s young cousin, has the sublime cheek
and excellent manners of an expensively-
educated English boy. Blanche Massey is
the housemaid of every housewife’s day-
dreams; Leslie Lester flusters a little while
as Mrs. Hubbard, the ugly old dame whose
photograph is the hinge on which the plot
swings; Leslie Graham, as her murderously-
plain schoolgirl daughter, simpers with
mother and with her departs, never to be
seen again. The three-act featherweight
does not move out of the widow’s sunlit
parlor, but doesn’t suffer on that account.
** * *
Tom Roberts’s show in Sydney;—
Tom Roberts’s work, shown at Horderns’ Gallery,
is varied in interest and subject, and a little, too, in
quality. There are portraits large, small and
medium, one or two “subject” pictures, still-life
and landscapes, Australian, English and foreign.
Roberts has a quiet charm all his own. His sense
of color is warm and pleasing, and he handles painty
with a graceful ease. Of the portraits, No. 2,
“Miss W.,” is easily the finest. It is a simple, low-
toned study of a woman in a black dress, and the
painting of the arm shown through the black, filmy
stuff —ninon, is it? —is excellent craftsmanship. ‘.‘An
Orphan,” a study in oils of a child, is not com-
pletely satisfactory, though the painting of the head
is good. There are one or two portraits which, while
not being in Class 1, make, nevertheless, a subtle
Gilbert and Sullivan,
at Her Majesty's,
Melbourne.
Charles Walenn as
Ko-Ko in “The
Mikado."
appeal. “The Snake
Charmer” is an admir-
able little performance.
“Potato Diggers in the
Fens” is the gem of
the landscapes, despite
its size—B x 4i inches.
“Kangaroo Valley” and
“The 'Little Settle-
ment,” Australian land-
scapes, are full of
beauty, and make one
wish the artist had
painted them larger.
In “Kangaroo Valley”
Roberts has captured a
typical Australian
scene. “Over Henley”
is full of beautiful
color. “Tetton Church,
Somerset,” is an accom-
plished and dignified
composition, nicely
handled, and “Grey of
Norfolk” is refined in
color scheme and very
well painted. “A Moun-
tain Muster,” one of
the 'largest canvases,
has unmistakably the
Australian atmosphere,
but it is neither an
interesting composition
nor thoroughly convin-
cing ; and the same
might apply to “Sydney (1900).”
jf: sji
“Kissing Time” is near the end of the
theatrical honeymoon at Sydney Majesty’s.
Final performance is on Friday night. On
Saturday “Maytime” arrives with another
line of sentimental goods.
“Tilly of Bloomsbury,” now lodging at
the Palace, assures Sydney that its• love
story is so sweet that any sugar refinery
looks like a salt-mine by comparison. Evi-
dently it’s love that makes the world go
round to the box-office.
** * *
“Irene” is doing admirably at Sydney Cri-
terion ; crowded houses are the rule, and the
Great Chorus Girls’ Strike is as though it
had never been.
** * *
Daisy Kennedy played before musical Syd-
ney once more on Monday night. The rest
of the town stayed away. Daisy, looking
more than ever like a newly-imported clothes
model, ripped into her instrument and tore
out great masses of sound; for she is a
master of her craft who is filled with the
confidence and virility of successful youth.
For this reason the modern group at the end
of the programme fitted in best.
Jack Griffith's stars made their appearance
in Sydney on Saturday night in conjunc-
tion with the State Orchestra. Elias Bree-
skin in the Tschaikowsky Concerto proved
himself a master of the singing tone and a
highly intellectual player. Paul Costello,
coming so soon after John McCormack, had,
as it were, a hurdle to overcome, but he did
it in fine style, capturing his audience from
the first aria, “O Paradiso.” The company
gives a recital by itself on Thursday, arid
on Saturday plays again in conjunction with
the Orchestra.
Sydney Lyceum and Crystal Palace wax
prosperous on the charms of Clarine Sey-
“The Man from
Toronto ,”
at Sydney Tivoli.
Joseph F. Graham as
Mr. Priestley.
mour, whose high-
voltage revolutions
around the idol of
her fathers have
for background an
island off the coast
of Florida. Olive
Thomas enters the
British aristocracy
and becomes the
interesting bride of
the Duke of Loame
at the Strand and
Empress. Lionel
Barrymore, in
“The Copperhead,”
illustrates Tom
Bracken’s “N o t
Understood,”
though the pub-
licity man doesn’t
acknowledge the
author of the piece
he uses. This is
at the Globe and
Haymarket. A t
the Lyric William
Desmond gets
mixed up in poli-
tics among the
Mexicans.
* * *
John McCor-
mack’s first recital
at Melbourne Town
Hall on Satur-
day was short
find sweet, but the populace heard as much
of the voice as could reasonably be expected
for the money. John’s tenor started off in
two bits of his favorite Handel, the grave
strains of “O Sleep, why dost thou leave
me?” affording an artistic contrast to the
vocal flourishes in “Morrai si” which fol-
lowed. In “L’Alba separa” John boomed
the somewhat rococo Tosti, and in the full-
powered singing which the piece provides he
got an amazing amount of music off his
bursting chest. Three Irish folk songs, in-
cluding the lovely “Ballynure Ballad,” were
the richer for spiced with his own
Irish personality, and he revived the same
spirit at the end of the evening with the
glucosy cadences of “Mother Machree.” Poor
old “Mother” is scorned by the flunkeys of
Music, but on Saturday she brought many a
superiah being to the brink of Philistine
abandon. There was bliss for the ears of the
cultured in Rachmaninoff’s “When Night
Descends” and Frank Bridge’s “Go Not,
Happy Day,” in the latter of which the
artist produced a pianissimo that dimmed
exquisitely to silence as the breath died
away. In his last bracket McCormack gave
Dunn’s “Bitterness of Love” and Melvin’s
“Her Portrait,” and advertised “Her Eyes,”
a pretty composition by accompanist Edwin
Schneider. Violinist Mcßeath, returning to
Melbourne after a long absence, handles his
instrument expertly, but his tone isn’t great,
and on Saturday he shone more in the slen-
der fancy of Monsigny’s “Rigaudon” than in
Dvorak’s “Indian Lament.” Probably, how-
ever, the young man was a trifle nervous and
will do better as the season goes on.
“Three Wise Fools,” at Melbourne King’s,
bears more than a passing resemblance to
“Daddies,” the lugubrious tragedy that hap-
pened at the same theatre a few months
back. The present agony harrows the feel-
ings with the same old bachelors who this
time find an anodyne for a past heartbreak
by adopting the daughter of their long-lost
love. The fact that the girl has been help-
ing a couple of escaped gaol-birds, one of
whom is her in-no-cent papa, suddenly arises
after a month of worship to ruin the fabric
of romance which the ancients have woven
round their prize. All through are passages
of soppy emotionalism that travesty the
tenderhst sentiments. The damsel’s dis-
covery of a pearl necklace in a coffee-pot is
a typical case in point, and not even her
guardian’s semi-humorous by-play can rob
the scene of its bathos. Of the three old
noodles Frederick Esmelton finds the pap
of his discourse tempting him to grandilo-
quence and portentous postures. John D.
O’Hara, the toughest, declares in a sad re-
vival of the “Lightnin’ ” manner that a pas-
sion for saying “Hell!” at intervals is usu-
ally the cloak of a true and noble nature.
Syd Stirling, the remaining patriarch, tries
a de luxe style to give a godly radiance to
the doctor’s calling. Lizette Parkes is
fairly successful as Sydney Fairchild, but
her sweetish affectations of speech make her
ingenues rather treacly. Robert Toms is
bursting with compressed energy as the
popular fiction hero who is mostly dashing
from one canoodle to another. Marion Mar-
cus Clarke, Arthur Cornell and H. H. Wal-
lace represent the bachelors’ domestic staff;
Edwin Lester brings an appearance of great
mourning to a part of little moment; while
John Bedouin as Benny the Duck thrusts a
criminal face into the proceedings, and his
foggy utterance increases the pathos of the
exhibition.
Concerning Melbourne picture-shows:—
Tne Australian Arts Club performance at the
Decoration Gallery is notable for two brilliant por-
traits by W. B. Mclnnes. One of the canvases,
depicting a vice-regal aide, presents with amazin’
veracity the harrowing hauteur that clings to the
original. A well-handled study of a Sassiety beautv
preserves the congealed feelings of the goddess with
equal fidelity. The decorative idealism of Penleigh
Boyd has driven him to the production of “The
Fisherman s Cove,” which is a debauch in his
favorite yellows. The whole thing is resplendently
stagey: the light belongs more to the lime than
the sun. Elliot Griiner is at his best in “Frostv
Morning,” but “ ’Twixt Shadow and Shine”' estab-
lishes the artist as a member of the Lewis and
Whitty blue-water school. M. J. McNally’s “Rising
Mists” has the pearly atmosphere, lightness and
spontaneity which are increasingly characteristic of
this painter’s work. James R. Jackson’s adventures
with a palette in Sydney Harbor lead to charming
results. He scores more in distant vistas of smiling
coves and bays. The close-ups are brought to the
level of magazine covers by the intrusion of unim-
portant females. In his “Shepherd’s Bush, London,”
Will Ashton has surely -been infected by the stolid
Cockney complacence of the architecture. His spirit
is higher and his color fresher in “The Seascape.
South Wales.” John D. Moore’s “French Land-
scape” has a resemblance to wool-work, and his
“Sunsets in N.Y.” seem to have been drawn during
a pastel famine. Herbert Gallop’s cloudscapes, which
reduce the earth to a mere super, are generally
soundly painted. So are David Barker’s little quar-
tette in oils. Albert Collins is a prize-winner for
his water-colors, but his “Spring Morning” takes its
keynote from a colder season.
* * * #
Last week was very good for “The
Mikado” at Melbourne Majesty’s, but to-
morrow he is to abdicate and leave a clear
stage for “The Yeomen of the Guard.”
* *
“Yes. Uncle,” undeservedly sentenced to
10 weeks at Melbourne Royal, will be
released to-morrow night. On Saturday
“The Girl in the Taxi” whizzes in.
* * :|:
“Bran Pie” at Melbourne Tivoli remains
strongest in the sketch wherein Clarice
Hardwicke and George Gee attend *to the
dinner while Lottie Sargent is away at the
movies. Clarice shows further humor
in the burlesque panto screech in which Lee
White patters the Bowery patois as a buxom
Cinderella.
In “The Rotters” at Melbourne Princess’s
John Clugston, J.P., is still endeavoring to
preserve his respectability from the ravages
of scandal. The job reduces his earnings
horribly, but the old sinner has the satis-
faction of keeping his bribes in the family.
>'fi sjc *l'
These are violent times at Hoyt’s, Mel-
bourne. “Ace of the Sjiddle,” otherwise
Gilbert and Sullivan,
at Her Majesty’s,
Melbourne.
James Hay as Nanki
Poo in “The Mikado."
Harry Carey, is
moving in circles
where the nearest
thing to a pacifist
has several notches
on his gun. Lock-
lear, the latest
star of the air,
aviates in “The
Great Air Rob-
bery” and gives
epicures of sensa-
tion the time of
their lives. “Shod
with Fire,” reveal-
in g the popular
smiie of Elsie Fer-
guson, is another
wild Western Ame-
rican subject where
a trained neddy
adds to the general
excitement. The
Majestic is relying
for full houses on
the charms of Con-
stance Talmadge
and Louise Glaum.
The Britannia is
throwing a bright
light on the feuds
of “Old Kentucky,”
and the Melba has
Olive Thomas de-
luding an im-
promptu hubby in
“Youthful Folly.”
** * *
“Bing Boys on
Broadway” is now
running a t Adel-
aide Royal, where Phil Smith works
hard and successfully, Jenny Hartley scores
in her own principal-boy style, Reg Roberts,
Leslie Victor and Gwen Burroughs have a
mere trifle to do, and the mounting is pne.
West’s have a “Sporting Duchess” film, an
old Drury Lane spectacular play with the
changes that American producers think
necessary; and Viola Dana in a similarly re-
hashed and even renamed version of the
favorite “Eliza Comes to Stay.” Wonder-
graph has two jolly ideas worked out by
Bill Hart and Billie Burke. At the Pav.
is Larry Semon, who, by a mixture of ath-
letics and farce, proposes to challenge better-
known humorists of the screen; and Eslick
continues to find fresh costumes and new
excuses for j&zz at the Palais de Danse.


sdfv
HERE was a time
when people had to
use tallow candles
and oil lamps because
they knew no better.
But there is no reason why YOU
should suffer the big inconvenience
of harsh, sight-destroying lights
in your home, office or factory.
The highest art of the glass-worker now
combines with electricity to give the ideal
artificial light.
Watson illuminating Glassware shows to
what a degree of perfection shadowless
lighting suited to all purposes has attained.
It tempers the glare and floods your home
with a true duplicate of soft, shaded sunlight.
Although of such distinctive quality, Watson
liluminating Glassware is not prohibitive in
price. It is chosen from the output of the
best makers, to ally beauty and service to
real economy.
The showrooms are open for inspection daily.
Inquiries invited.
WGWATSON &C°L TD
279 Clarence S i Sydney
Pirn
vmm
-■
faa
0023
P V f=t El
N
vs
is#
(I*
w
/
%
W
vj*
'<r
'm
m
m
1
«
w
+
p
>
es
v*
u
• »
iST<
x
* FOOO^
• 9
SUU
+ii:x-mh-
HOORAY FOR LUNCHTIME
After the morning's study the youngsters healthy appetites simply
crave for good food.
They need something that is not only tasty but sustainingly healthful.
Give them a good lunch of —
REX CAMP PIE
sandwiches, and they will have their appetite’s desire.
It is made from choice cuts of prime meat seasoned delicately—
cooked correctly, thus saving you all worry.
Try also Rex Ham Pate or Rex Veal and Tongue Pate—the sandwich
spreads that are all pure meat. Sold everywhere.
Packed by-
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon
I 2990
You get Reliability
because —
The Lister Engine is built to
a high standard, and nothing
is sacrificed to quantity pro-
duction. Iron is not used
where steel would give better
service. Nothing is hurried
in order to turn out a cheap
job.
&
if
m
m
wM v'
i
&i
■
■
H
?
You get Service
because —
The Lister Equipment-
reaches the high-water mark
of engineering. It has about
20 less working parts than
other farm engines. It is
equipped with High-tension
Magneto, Throttling Gov-
ernor, “Once a month” Oil-
ing System, and Dust-proof
Gears.
34 days & nights non-stop run i
How LISTER ALL-BRITISH ENGINES
helped the Tunnellers at Hill 60
and refused to be shell-shocked.
IT takes a lot to make a Britisher blow his own trumpet.
Here’s a wonderful war story that has only just come to
hand. Everyone who followed events in Flanders during
the war will remembei the gigantic efforts put forward in
reducing the position known as Hill “60.”
For 34 days and nights the Tunnellers worked at top speed
in undermining the position. Every delay was fatal. But
because Lister All-British Engines were used for driving the
lighting and pneumatic equipment there was not a stop during
the whole of the 8 1 6 hours’ work.
At one time a shell demolished one of the engine huts, but
the Lister Engine kept on running sweetly, and refused to be
shell-shocked.
This wonderful Lister Record demonstrates the value of All-
British workmanship. The Light Horse in Palestine proved
this, too. Lister Engines were responsible for regular water
supply for troops and horses from the Suez Canal to
Jerusalem.
The Lister Engine is the safest investment for country work.
It is wonderfully equipped in every way, and the dust-proof
gears give you complete protection against trouble, no matter
where it is used.
Send for Prices and all Particulars to nearest of the following:
Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd., 9-13 Young Street, Sydney. Malloch Bros., Perth.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., Brisbane. A. W. Sandford & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.


N
Special
Price,
12/6
The CO-SHIRT
or 3 for 36/“
Post
Free.
HERE’S ABOUT THE BEST BUY IN SHIRTS.
It s of good, strong Khaki—stand any amount of wear—besides being hard to soil.
For knocking about the Farm—in the Milking Shed or Boundary Riding— as a
useful garment it simply has no equal.
Note the two pockets and well-fitting collar—good enough in appearance to allow
you to dispense with wearing a coat.
Special Price 12/6, or 3 for 36/-
FINNEY, ISLES CO. LIMITED,
The Store for Men BRISBANE.
POVERTY
POINT
MOËT &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Old Pot” : Essie Jenyns, whose case was
known to be hopeless as soon as the operat-
ing-table revealed her trouble, was very
ordinary in melodrama, a fact made plain
when she appeared in “A Ring of Iron” at
the New Opera House, Sydney, in 188 G.
Those who did not know of her special
Shakspearean training, with finishing touches
in London, were amazed to learn that the
melodrama would be followed by “Romeo
and Juliet,” with raucous Bill Plolloway as
the lover. Like Irving, whom he subse-
quently supported, Holloway got through, but
he was not Romeo. Essie had Sydney at her
feet almost from her first entrance, and
awoke on Monday to find herself famous.
She has been described by those who acted
with her as extremely cold; which makes
it all the more remarkable that she should
have succeeded where passion was needful.
After Bill Holloway had stood much gibing
criticism, he put handsome Bob Inman on
as Romeo, and this was a great improvement.
Dick Stewart, brothel’ of Nellie, was her
Mercutio, and Albert Norman, of whom no-
thing has been heard for some time, the ideal
truculent and swaggering Tybalt.
“Hamfat”: “At the door we met a loud-
mouthed individual who talked fight and
very nearly got it.”
Thus E. J. Tait
explaining what
happened when he
went to the Actors’
Union rooms in
Sydney to find the
missing chorus for
“Irene.” Great
entrepreneurs
seem to run
to this sort of
thing. When
a previous
Actors’ Union
was having an
argument with the
entrepreneurs, a
bout between
George Marlow
and Jimmy Ryan
in the managerial
office at the old
Adel phi (now
Grand Opera
House ) helped to
brighten up the
“The Boss Cookie,” at
Sydney Royal.
Trewhella Jordan
(Chas Daniels), a
stranded barnstormer.
proceedings. But theatrical fights seldom
get beyond the “blows-were-exchanged”
stage.
“E.D.”: The late William Holloway, Essie
Jenyns’s histrionic step-papa, had put up a
thrilling drama at a Melbourne theatre, and
had reached the highly-emotional scene where
the splendid hero calls at the hut door of
the villain suspected of murdering the beauti-
ful heroine. Plain Bill knocked once, twice,
thrice. “Gerald Armitage, come forth!” he
said. Again he knocked. “Gerald Armi-
tage, come forth to your doom!” said he. He
knocked yet again, and then a grimy stage-
hand, a kindly but ignorant soul, anxious
to be helpful, stepped on to the stage
in full view of the whole audience, and said
he, “ ’S no use yer knockin’ there, Mr. Hollo-
way ; the bloke ain’t to home. I seen him
go out the back way.”
“O.K.’s” recollections of Essie Jenyns:—
Essie Jenyns was the first and thus far the only
Australian actress to make a great reputation and
enrich her family by playing Shakspearean heroines
in her own country. Her story is a romance of
the- Australian stage. The widow of Dr. Jennings, a
hot-headed medical man, found a second husband in
“Bill,” the elder and taller of the Holloway brothers,
who had played the two Dromios in Ballarat when
that city still retained the aroma of old digging
days. He was a forceful, unpolished actor, who
somehow bullocked his nasal way into a “leading
man” and managerial position, and had funds enough
to take his wife and step-daughter to England for
a holiday trip before realising his dream of exploit-
ing the promising damsel as a “star” under his
management.
Before going away Essie had a little stage ex-
perience in minor parts, but was almost unknown
in Sydney and Melbourne, whereas her mother’s
husband (mother had long before been initiated into
the mysteries of the profession under the stage-name
of Kate Arden) was something of a joke among
the critical. The family returned from London towards
the end of 1885. Holloway had bought the Aus-
tralian rights of “Saints and Sinners,” a sombre
drama by H. A. Jones, wherein the heavy father
was an old minister ■ and the heroine his young
daughter who got into trouble. J. C. Williamson
produced the play at Melbourne Royal, with himself
as the parson and Essie Jenyns as the daughter who
went astray. Maggie Moore was in the cast, and
old Harwood; and Holloway was a noble champion
of innocence who called the vile seducer to account.
The programme featured the Essie Jenyns-Holloway
engagement, but it passed without giving any indi-
cation of the triumph in store for them.
Some little time
elapsed before the Essie
Jenyns boom started in
Sydney, and “classic
drama was restored to
the Australian stage.” The
charming personality of
the girl, not to mention
her acting capabilities,
did the trick. When she
first returned from Eng-
land her style was com-
pounded of imitations of
Mary Anderson, Ellen
Terry and Miss Eastlake,
three “stars” whose work
she had studied in Lon-
don. But after settling
down to Shakspeare, the
earnest young actress
resolved herself naturally
into an imitator of Mary Anderson, the American
beauty tragedienne of the period. Mary’s rich con-
tralto tones were within the Australian girl’s com-
pass ; she made up in statuesque pose for what she
lacked in subtlety of interpretation, and her natural
intelligence was at least equal to Mary Anderson’s.
Mary had revived “Ingomar,” along with the plays
of the Immortal Bard, and Essie Jenyns was also
strong in that antiquated romance. (Herewith an old
portrait of the heroine in “Ingomar.”) Her success was
wonderful considering that step-father (who deserved
much credit, to be sure, for coaching her up to a
point, and running the show on sound lines) dis-
counted the effect by playing the lover all the time.
He was the Romeo, Orlando, Ingomar, Shylock, etc.,
and the youthfulness of other men in the co. rather,
accentuated the rugged maturity of the leading
man. Atholwood, Greenaway, H. R. Roberts and
Inman, all cadets of the co., were more than 30
years younger than their present ages when Bill
Holloway shone in the reflected glory of his step-
daughter’s triumphs. She was the whole strength
of the entertainment, which lasted until the end of
1888 or early in ’B9. Then it was announced that
Essie Jenyns would marry and leave the stage, and
the writer’s moralisings in verse on the wisdom of
the young actress were published in The Bulletin.
With her classic drama retired into private life,
and Bill Holloway retired on his wife’s daughter’s
laurels.
“Stargazer”: The Holloway and Essie
Jenyns Shakspearean company, doing a
liighly-successful provincial tour on the heels
of a triumphant season at Melbourne Bijou,
had come to Bendigo, and was showing the
charming young Australian actress in her
most .successful role, that of Rosalind in “As
You Like It.” William Holloway was Or-
lando, a part for which his years and natural
disadvantages singularly unfitted him, so
much so that a local paper said the effort
was “rich in impossibilities.” It was the
third night. Rosalind in male attire, hear-
ing of the encounter of Orlando with the
lioness, faints, whereat 'Celia cries: “Gany-
mede, sweet Ganymede!” Then arose a
nfiner in the front stalls, advanced to the
orchestra railing, and, leaning across, said:
“Ganymede he d —-d! I’ll bet you five quid
it’s a woman.” Rosalind’s attempt at a
male disguise had not struck the mining
population as effective. On another occa-
sion Bill Holloway’s Rosalind received a
note and a parcel from a few admirers in
Ballarat. The note pointed out that the
male disguise she adopted in “As You Like
It” deceived nobody, and the writer con-
cluded : “You’ll have ’em all beat, Miss, if
you wear these things.” “These things”
were trousers, jumper, hat and boots, such as
a miner would wear on the job. But Rosa-
lind funked it, and that night when she
appeared in her customary shepherd’s array
there was a roar of disapproval from a band
of miners in the gallery, and a voice cried:
“It’s no good, Miss; everybody knows you
in them ”
Sydney’s veteran violin-maker, Sam
Bridges, bowed the Last Chord the other
day, aged 78. He claimed to have re-dis-
covered the famous Cremona body-varnish.
Gerald Griffin, the Irish-American singing-
actor who starred at the Sydney Adelphi
a few years ago under the management of
George Marlow, has returned to Australia
with several new plays—“ Eileen Asthore,”
“Edmund Burke,” “Old Limerick Town,”
“The Rose of Killarney,” “Old Dublin Bay”
and “The Lost Leader.” The last-named is
the much-talked-of piece that deals with the
life and mission of Charles Stewart Parnell.
It was first produced in Dublin, and has been
done in London and New York, where Griffin
bought the Australian rights.
Chauncey Olcott, the singing-actor who
still holds the American public although he
is now very near 70, proposes to visit Aus-
tralia about two years hence. Andrew Mack
and Allen Doone followed in Olcott’s foot-
steps, and the singing plays which Gerald
Griffin will introduce to playgoers here are,
he says, Olcott’s.
“Old Pot”: Save for the fact that Har-
court Beatty was born in Scotland, he was
not a Scot. His parents were English, and
he had not the trace of a Scottish accent.
He occasionally burred his r’s, but that was
all. In fact, he was twitted in Glasgow
with even the loss of that burr after he had
returned from a tour, Glasgow being the
scene of his first appearance as an amateur.
Despite Beatty’s chuckle and “Orb’s” appro-
bation of it (B. 12/8/’2O), I heartily agree
with the Dominion critic of his Scotch in
“What Every Woman Knows.” He did not
sustain the dialect. A Scot myself. I know
it takes years of hard work, together with
association with the Sassenach, to get rid of
the accent. Even then it will burst out in
moments of excitement. Julius Knight is a
Scot, though few would know it from his
speech, and his years of English parts would
make it difficult for him to sustain the Doric
without much study. “A Scrape of the Pen”
gave the finest examples we have had of the
Scottish accent. Lowland and Highland, with
an English body thrown in to show the dif-
ference.
“T. 0.1.”: If “Orb” (B. 12/8/’2O) had
gone back beyond his 40 years’ limit he
would have hit upon at least three good
Scots who appeared in Australia and played
Scotch characters only. The earliest was
John Mungall, whose Nicol Jarvie has not
been equalled by any since his time. Wil-
liam Gourlay came next; and in the late
’fifties Professor “Wizard” Anderson
appeared as Rob Roy and the Bailie. No
one could doubt his Scotch. Sir William
Don, the Northern baronet, played occasion-
ally in Scotch parts, but always of the
strictly genteel order.
“Hamer”: A link with the pleasures of
children who are now grand-parents snapped
when Mrs. Elizabeth Ashton died at Forest
Lodge, Sydney. Her husband, James Ash-
ton, was in the circus business 60 years ago,
and his name was as well known in its day
as Wirth is now. The seven daughters and
two sons of the couple were all bare-back
riders. Three of the daughters are with
Eroni Bros.’ Circus, now travelling W.A.—
in fact, the Eroni brothers married two of
them.
“BRAN PIE," AT MELBOURNE TIVOLI.
Bailey on Ins banjo.
“Hamfat”: “East Lynne” moves with the
times. A company doing the smalls has
altered the period of the drama to make it
post-Avar. Archibald, in this version, sports
the ribbon of the V.C.; Little Willie (noAv
young Bill) works in an affecting reference
to what daddy did at the Front; Dick Hare
redeems his reputation in the same quarter,
and Levison increases the execration' with
But a man f f rded by becomin S a shirker.
His idea V , know Proposes to go further.
smLh for tlm vo-f ÜbStltU {? an aeroplane
spectacle of B 6 laih Y ay collision that is the
that a/ tul sreat drama, only he is afraid
aeronlan^stoof eDt m gb COSt of scenery, the
,®. S nt would c °st quite 30 shillings.
: He - nry Irvin S once did duty for
hums Reeves m a production of “Rob Roy”
“The Man from
Toronto ,”
at Sydney Tivoli.
George Tally as
the man.
in Edinburgh. The
famous throaty
tenor was starred
as the lover,
Francis Osbaldi-
stone, and his
songs, of course,
Avere the most im-
portant thing in
the performance.
As was almost the
rule rathe r than
the exception with
him, he sent a
doctor’s certif. that
he was unable to
appear, and the
manager told Irv-
ing, who Avas play-
ing a minor part,
that he’d have to
go on instead. He
couldn’t sing much,
even in an amateur
way o f speaking,
but he’d heard the
ditties often enough
and was acquainted
Avith the melodies.
With his eye on
the conductor he re-
sponded to his
cues, and made a
show of warbling
“My Love is Like
a Red, Red Rose,”
and all the rest of
the tenor hero’s
numbers as they
came along. “I
even got applause
—at times,” Irving
told us long
afterwards. Mapy little bursts of gratituae
are earned in this world by singers who leave
off.
“Li&vre” (London) : Pavlova is dancing
to half-empty houses at the Prince’s at
“popular prices,” while the Russian Ballet,
headed by Karsavina, is filling the much
larger Covent Garden at extortionate prices.
As I sat in the almost deserted pit of the
Prince’s last night, I think I struck the
solution. Pavlova is technically ahead of
any other living dancer; but she is like a
Dresden shepherdess, while Karsavina is a
passionate woman, with her full complement
of red corpuscles and some over. In his last
novel, “Mrs. Harden,” Robert Hichens
speaks of “Karsavina... .with her dark and
lustful eyes,” and in those few Avoids he
has painted her portrait. We admire the
art of Pavlova, but Karsavina makes
even the most anaemic young draper feel like
the cave-man of fiction. Pavlova’s premiere
danseur is Alexander Volinin, whom we
saw in Australia with Genee. He is accom-
plished, but lacks the passion and abandon
of Massine and Idzikowsky of the Russian
Ballet. Pavlova’s other men are negligible,
and the only woman who stood out was a
fuzzy-polled Oriental-looking houri Avho did
a Salomd-like dance, and whose name was
not to be distinguished on the programme.
“Row A”: The undisguised actor has to
do the best with the face that God gave him.
The trouble is that the Almighty has in this
matter been kind to very few of the profes-
sion. A current show is quite spoiled for
me by the facial efforts of three honest
young men who are learning their trade as
comedians. Two of them have large white
teeth, which they show in alligator grins, and
the third owns a head which begins well but
dwindles away. I cannot bear to watch the
grimaces and study the skulls of three ugly
men for three hours and pay for the privilege;
and I am sure there are many thousands
who feel the same way about it. Why
should the actor’s face be visible at all? An
American has lately perfected the art of
mask-making so that, by merely popping a
new false head on his shoulders, the mime
can be a painted demon or a blank-faced
simpleton, a scowling pirate or a red-facec.
countryman. The general adoption of
artistic masks would obliterate the intrusive
india-rubber actor without killing him, utilise
his voice, and give the unfortunate drama-
tist a chance he hasn’t got at present.
“Norbell”: “Ike Pagliacci” refers (B.
5/8/’2O) to _ “Maud Williamson’s ‘Joseph
and Mrs. Potiphar,’ which preceded J.C.W.’s
flash ‘Joseph and His Brethren’ by many
years.” The “Joseph of Canaan” played
by the Woods-Williamson Co. was identical
with that written for George Rignold by
Rev. George Walters, and produced first at
Sydney Majesty’s in August. ’95. Maud
Williamson was the Mrs. P. of that produc-
tion ; but although she wrote many decent
plays, including a Biblical one. “Barabbas,”
she never perpetrated a Joseph drama.
THE ESSENTIAL THING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was John Henry Fortesque,
And he was taking out
A gallant company to do
The smalls. It was his shout.
Said he across the foam to Gus:
“Buck up, old chap, and come with us.
“Ten quid a week I’ve got to spare,”
Most graciously he said.
The other softly eyed him there,
And slowly shook his head.
“I’ll give you fifteen, Gus,” said John—
“ Say twenty, then, to take it on.
“Come, come, your times are out of joint,
You do not earn a brown.
Quit loafing here upon the Point,
And come right out of town.
Reluctant still ? Well, man alive,
I’ll even make it thirty-five.
“There, forty pounds a week! Admit
That’s rather sumptuous pay.”
Gus hummed and pawed his chin a bit.
“Yes, that’s all right. But, say,
Suppose we get to things concrete—
Who’ll guarantee enough to eat?”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


ITIONIST
tty]
X
r*
sm*,.
m
1,
sT:
A
'A
/'
i\\
c__
kr.
V
1
' / /*;
■
A S '>? '«
a
%
Wo*
*\
/
a
i
EJTT
/
pP
\
*
,
%
OPIUM'
u
2
h:
o
o
o
Q 0
i J Y~
>■ 0
-J
0
i in
(Y
VOTE CONTINUANCE.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: fcICHARD HOLMES & 60., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special Wli 1
sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redlern, Sydney.
LEWIS &
whitty;:
MAKERS
m
A l '
m
HI
a-
Federal Motor Trucks are Built for Hard Work
They at once give the impression that they were built specially to give that sturdy
dependable year-in and year-out service which has permanently established their
success. Ten years of manufacture and seven years of satisfactory use in New
South Wales have placed them in the vanguard in the world of motor vehicles.
Messrs. Sargents, Ltd., the well-known caterers of Sydney, write:—
“We have been using five (5) FEDERAL S for upwards of six years. The oldest
is still in daily use, and on recently being overhauled no appreciable wear was
noticed on any of the gears and bearings. The mileage done by this particular
FEDERAL is over 100,000 miles, and it is considered to be as good to-day as tne
day it was purchased. Our fleet of FEDERALS has given complete satisfaction as
regards service, dependability and economy.”
Made in 1 ton, la, 2, 3|- and 5 ton sizes.
SOLE AGENT —
H. W. CROUCH, 26-28 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
The Australian Steeplechase, with its poor
little field of eight, went to commend the prudence
of those owners who didn’t accept. The race was
a triumph of form, seeing that Kinlark and Doiran,
who ran second and third in the National, took
advantage of the absence of lolaus to run first and
second in the longest race of the year. Also National
form was confirmed by the falling of Mountain God,
who had come to grief in the National. This being
said it is only fair to remark that a steeplechaser’s
jumping agility (or luck) is apt to vary strangely
from season to season. For one trustworthy ’chaser
there are 10 that seem always likely to come to
smash. Only two of the eight starters had a roll
last Saturday, and they were Algous and Mountain
God, the winner and third horses in the same event
a year ago. The backing of Mountain God down to
two to one was unreasonable in the light of his
extravagant jumping displays and not infrequent
blunders. Kinlark has been more reliable over
timber, and Doiran has proved a safer conveyance
this season. Yet last year this same Doiran, owing
to a faulty jump in one case and sheer bad luck in
the other, was among the fallen in both the National
and the big event at Caulfield. Doiran has started
in the National and Australian Steeples for the past
three years. Cobram has done likewise, and the
old grey seems at length to be getting a bit slow
for the best company. He has done his dash.
Six starter’s for the Arkaringa Hurdle at Caulfield
last Saturday included the winner of last year’s
National and two winners of the Australian Hurdle.
Sir Mnemon, who scrambled home from Beltane in
the 31-mile race 12 months ago, proved the slowest
of the three, whilst Wjll Comfort, the Flemington
hero of 1919, managed to give a stone and a neck
beating to Silver Heart, who won the Caulfield event
a week previously. Will Comfort, a difficult nag
to train, is hack probably to his very best form
thus late in the season, yet he had some trouble in
giving 131 b. and a beating to Silver Heart. What
a fine performance, then, must Sandule’s have been
on the first Saturday of the meeting, when he tried
to give 311 b. to Silver Heart and run away with
the race. No wonder that the light-weight got on
terms with Sandule at the last hurdle but one and
caused the tiring runaway to make a fatal blunder.
An acceptance of eight for the Australian
Steeplechase was not much encouragement for the
V.A.T.C. to further increase the size of its big
jumping prizes. The Australian Steeple was worth
£2OOO to the three placed horses, and the winner’s
cut was £l5OO. The Hurdle, run on the previous
Saturday, was worth only £250 less to the winner,
and the field in that case was 13. Events that come
at the end of the jumping season must always depend
for success on the chapter of accidents which has
preceded them, as well as the revelation of form in
the Nationals and during the last fortnight in July.
Between the middle of May and August (when the
two long races are decided at Caulfield) a lot of
nags are proved worthless for immediate winning
purposes, and others have fallen victims to bad
luck in the field. For example, 16 falls on the
first day of the National meeting. This year, seem-
ingly, there was an utter lack of hurdle-racers with
sufficient jumping ability to get round the Caulfield
steeplechase course, or have a good try at it. Of
the eight acceptors for the Australian Steeple the
only one that had run in a hurdle race lately was
Miss Rosslyn, who had been in both the Nationals.
* * * *
Bert Price, the trainer’s son who rode
Si-ver Heart to victory in the Australian Hurdle, is
a particularly good sport even among cross-country
jockeys. He enlisted for active service in the war,
and only the other month he won the amateur light-
weight boxing championship of Victoria in con-
spicuously clever style.
Adelaide Hunt Club has revived its
point-to-point steeplechase, always a popular event
before the war, but not run since 1914. There is
still plenty of open country between the city and
the sea, and a sporting course was laid out behind
Henley Beach ; but it was not a real point-to-point,
being over a flagged line that ends about the same
place as it begins. The Master, E. M. Luxmoore,
scored an easy and popular win on his own Foin,
and Maughan just beat Neville Colley on the post
for second place.
* * * *
Not since Balarang won the Tramway
Handicap has anything made such an unholy exhibi-
tion of a field of Randwick sprinters as the Wallace
gelding Ready Aye Ready (Bst. 101 b.) did in the
Challenge Stakes on Saturday. Moving off in the
first flight of 23 runners, the big fellow hit the
front at the four-furlong pole, and the argument
was over. Kelly dropped his hands at the distance,
and the horse was only cantering when he arrived
in “12.” Starting at 7’s, he gave the crowd behind
him a hatful. Sweet Lady, the hope of the multi-
tude, got swamped early, and the lightly-weighted
Jarnae, who had won under a welter weight the
previous week at Rosehill, wasn’t sighted. Elfacre,
Newcastle’s hope for the Epsom, was a trier with
a lot of flesh, and Richmond Main bled at the nose.
Punters began the new season badly when
Earl Derby came romping home two lengths to the
good in the Cup. The plain-looking gelding made
practically one act of it, to the astonishment of
James Barden and the apprentice who was aboard.
During the autumn the Earl was tried as a miler
with disastrous consequences. He was no more
successful at a mile and a quarter, but the gallop-
ing evidently did him good, for on Saturday he
was running on well at the end, and could appa-
rently have easily managed another furlong at top.
The Cup finished at a mile and three furlongs. The
Metropolitan is a mile and five furlongs. In this
the Earl has 6st. 71b., which, as he pulled up with
scarcely a damp hair, seems worth remembering. He
started at 20’s on Saturday, which means that he
was unbacked.
The Comedy King gelding Luteplayer was
backed like a certainty. He was bumped at the
start, never got properly on his feet during the
rest of the trip, and beat nothing home. Phil
Osborne’s promising Ecarte, who arrived second to
Earl Derby, will do better over a distance later
on. His apprentice-pilot was badly placed for the
first quarter-mile, and then, getting a chance, rang
up a sprint which carried him right up to the
leaders. It was premature and probably lost the
race.
Eurythmic, the early favorite for the
Caulfield, comes from ■ Westralia, and is a
handsome four-year-old chestnut by Eudorus —Bob
Cherry-. But many Westerners will not have it
that he is good enough to win over a distance in
first-class company with 51b. less than w.f.a. He
dead-heated in the Perth Cup with Rivose, an undis-
tinguished plater. He certainly beat the aged Mis-
tico at the same meeting in a slow-run mile-and-a-
half, but Mistico had proved conclusively at Flem-
ington nine months before that he had ceased to
be capable of winning over 12 furlongs, even against
second-raters. And those are Eurythmic’s best per-
formances to date.
Maryborough threatens to lead an attack
upon the lords of the race-game in Victoria. The
Maryborough Racing Club feels that it is being put
upon by the V.R.C. in being granted only one “regis-
tered” meeting a year, and, at a deputation to
Chief Secretary Baird, it pointed out that when he
granted a permit for the club to hold a charity race-
CLIVE LEONARD,
V.A.T.C. committee-
man and owner.
meeting the V.R.C. re-
fused to register it, and
accordingly the Govern-
ment’s power was over-
ridden. The deputation
asked if the V.R.C. really
goverped Victoria, and the
Minister replied that,
apparently, to some extent
it did ; and he hinted that
the Government might be
inclined to hand over the
control of racing dates to
an independent body. The
deputation left with the
promise of another permit,
and it muttered dark
things into its beard as it
gathered up its umbrellas.
The circularisation of all
country clubs and the
power of the Country party
were among the stilettos
which it hinted were con-
cealed up its sleeve if the
worst came to the worst.
The Q. Leagueites carried the best wishes
of nine-tenths of the 10,000 onlookers present when
Chunder Caples kicked off for N.S.W. at Sydney
Cricket Ground on Saturday. They played good
football, but were worn down, and in the last 15
minutes the Blues frequently galloped over their
line. Helped by a stiff southerly, the visitors bogged
in to such purpose that the first spasm ended with
the home team only one point ahead—l 6 to 15.
They opened the scoring after the interval with
another try, which placed them in the lead. From then
on it was anybody's game until 15 minutes from
blow-up, when the Ma Staters got properly going
and settled the argument. Final scores: N.S.W.,
40 (10 tries, 5 goals) ; Q., 18 (4 tries, 3 goals).
The best man on the grass was Paten, who played
opposite Horder. He has lots of toe, is a deadly
tackier, and uses his brains. Broadford, on the
other wing, played a better game that Vest, the
Blue streaker. Thomson and Ryan were a nippy
and versatile combination, whose straight running
and general play put Johnston and Caples in the
shade. Fewin, at full back, was superior to Fraser,
whose faulty line-kicking, weak tackling and gallery-
play aroused hostile comment. Potter, Richards and
O’Donnell deserve favorable mention among the
Bananaland forwards. Offside Burge was the Blues’
star. He performed in the front row of the scrum,
and yet was always first “up.” Chunkey contributed
1 try and 5 goals. Harold Horder was in great
form, and, although well marked and at times
heavily dumped by Paten, managed to beat the oppo-
sition and score on three occasions. Bert Gray and
J. C. Ives were always on the ball. The game
was an unusually clean one, and Tom McMahon
had no cautions to hand out. The early match was
between East and South Juniors, being the final of
the President’s Cup Competition. The clever East’s
side settled the Rabbito youths by 7 points to nil.
With one round still to go ’Varsity, four
points ahead of in-and-out Easts and the battling
Villagers, are assured of Sydney Rugby Union pre-
miership. On Saturday, against Norths, Farquhar,
Lawton and Raymond were missing, anti the Shore-
men wanted only another try or a penalty goal to
catch the leaders. They were top dogs, and on
the point of scoring several times, but failed through
over-eagerness. Humphries directed his followers
with wisdom, and worked like a beaver, and Bur-
rows and Cooney were noticeable in attack. Gold-
smith was Uni.’s best back; though Nothling did
well in his new position. Murray and Erby were
the pick of a rather scratch pack. Easts’ superior
condition and experience enabled them to down
Mosman by 12-11. Despite the score the latter
were generally on the defensive. Flook and Barrett
played soundly for the winners, and Oatley and
Garnsey bore the brunt of the attack. Wests
snatched a two-point win over Glebe-Balmain. Shute,
for the winners, benefiting by his matches against
the Maorilanders, played with rare dash, and his
combination with Wogan influenced the result. The
Village triolet, Pym, Chambers and Mingay, knocked
all the music out of Newtown to the tune of 42-18.
The football, on the whole, was of the kiek-and-
follow-on variety, and want of a flier handicapped
the losers.
* * * • *
Ideal weather, soft ground and two fast
teams striving to keep their position for the finals
brought a record crowd to South Melbourne on
Saturday, where for the first time ever Richmond
defeated South on their own ground. Scores: Rich-
mond, 92 points; South, 61. Most of the credit
is due to Richmond’s captain,
Dan Minogue, whose direction
of play and handling of his
men was unerring. But he
failed to stop Mclntosh from
passing an uppercut to Allison.
The umpire observed it, so
Mac will presently step on the
League’s carpet. Gate yielded
£550. Carlton made their
place in the Big Four fairly
secure by notching 87 points
to Melbourne’s 25, and ’Wood
did ditto by collecting 113 to
St. Hilda’s 55. Essendon went
down by 73 points to Geelong’s
94. It caused some of the
“Same Olds” to lose their
blocks, with the result that as
they left the field they passed
a few to go on with to the
victorious Seasiders. The um-
pire was unaccountably over-
looked.
Alderman “TIGER”
GARDINER , of North
Melbourne, an old-time
football champion.
Queensland met N.S.W. under Soccer
rules at Wentworth Park (Sydney) on Saturday.
At the end of the first half the meatier N.S.W.
reps, had scored three goals to nil. After the inter-
val the Northerners pressed hard, and nothing but
the brilliance of R. Austen, N.S.W.’s goalkeeper,
saved the home team. J. Robertson, G. W. Brown
and A. McMillan were the Northerners’ best; and
F. L. Mellair-Smith, A. Fisher and W. Dane (who
kicked two goals) shone for N.S.W. Of the series
N.S.W. won two and drew the third.
The two States also met under Australian rules
at Erskineville (Sydney). N.S.W. took the lead
from the bounce, and at the end of the third quarter
were 67 points to Q.’s 30. In the last term Q.
bogged in hard, but could notch only 16 points to
N.S.W.’s eight. While N.S.W. scored nine goals
and 11 behinds in 20 attempts, Queensland got only
five goals and 16 behinds in 21 lifts. Which
explains the whole thing.
» * * *
Sydney Grammar’s defeat of King’s School
by 30-18 on Saturday landed the G.P.S. premier-
ship. Grammar (13 points) won six matches and
played a draw (with Newington) ; St. Joseph's (12
points) had six wins and a defeat. St. Ignatius
had the best point-scoring of the season with 191
against 38, and finished third (10 points). This
team created a flutter v. Sydney High School on
Saturday bv scoring 92 —3 in the first grade and
94—0 in the second grade. Since 1890 Grammar
has won the premiership seven times, King’s 13, St.
Joseph five, Newington four and C. of E. Grammar
twice.
At football the West Adelaides made a
brilliant run, but it came too late to be any use.
Last year they beat the three top clubs on the
list in turn, but had done so badly before that
even this did not give them a go for the premier-
ship. This time, a bad last on the list, they finished
the season with a 21-point win over North Adelaide,
the leaders ; but their only other win had been from
Port Adelaide, now tying with North for the top.
* * * *
Walter Winans, who dropped dead last
week while driving in a trotting race in London,
was about the only millionaire who could be called
a great all-round sportsman. At the age of 60 he
was still one of the best exponents in the world of
the haute ecole style of riding, and a master whip
whether of four-in-hand or tandem teams or of
pacers. He was a dead shot with a revolver, and
a useful man with a rifle, and had ranges, where
he practised, at his English home near Brighton and
in Paris. He claimed never to have shot a living
thing except as a matter of necessity, and his chief
mission in life was the care of animals. He was
a big factor in the British S.P.C.A. —easily the most
effective body of the sort in the world—and one of
the organisers of the Parifi Society, and he had
another well under way in Brussels, where he owned
a house, when the war began. His animal-sculptures
have figured in the Paris Salon and other European
galleries.
* * * *
Tom Vines, captain of the St. Stephen’s
Harriers (Vic.), who beat W. P. O’Neil (Carlton
H.) in the last 100yds. of the Vic. five-mile cross-
country championship at Geelong last week, is one
of the best long-distance peds in Australia. He
To h the now defunct St. Columb’s
victory beinsr ' the l2 fi/ eiU u ag0 ’ ■ hls first important
vfn io?n o- flve -mile junior championship of
Vic. in IJIO. Since his return from the war he
has won the five-mile Vic. championship in 29min.
" last week the watches made him do
-omin. lsec. on a somewhat heavy course.
Tr P - Collins, who could finish onlv 24th in
the v ic. event, crossed to Adelaide on Saturday
r i WOn ten -mile cross-country championship
m 61mm. 3 1 sec. from the S. Aus. top-notcher C.
Dunstan and J W. Mason.
* * * *
Ihe Americans have a theory that the boxer
of the future will need to be ambidextrous—that
capable of fighting with either hand forward.
Billy 1 ingle could have done with some slight
knowledge of the art at Sydney Stadium on Satur-
day night. Lined up against Knockout Brown, the
Yankee flyweight champion, who fights right-handed,
the Australian midget performed about 50 per cent,
below his true class. He got the verdict from
referee Wallis, but about half the crowd disputed
his rig*ht to it. The visitor evidenced no capacity
to out anybody ; but he is a clever defensive boxer,
can take a punch with nonchalance and is a good
little sportsman. He outclassed Tingle at infighting.
On the other hand the local product did practically
all the leading, which doubtless was what won him
the decision. The winner scaled Bst. 21b„ and the
other was 31b. lighter.
* * * .
The mighty world of stoush rarely gets
an honest chance to find out who its best man is.
Jack Johnson only lured Tommy Burns into the
ring by a trick. Carpentier won’t fight Fred Ful-
ton, Deschamps alleging that the American is too
big. Yet he claims to be anxious to meet Demp-
sey, who knocked Fulton out in one round. On
the other hand, he consistently avoids coming to
any definite arrangement with the tigerish half-
caste who overthrew Willard. And even Dempsey
bars Harry Wills, an enormous negro who is said
to be as good a boxer as Johnson was at his best,
and considerably stronger. Where Wills is con-
cerned Dempsey, himself technically a colored man,
draws the color-line.
The best cricket news of the week is that
Jack Gregory will figure for Australia in the Test
matches. After his last game for the A.I.F. he
announced his intention of dropping first-class cricket
and concentrating on station life. Ilis altered deci-
sion will give the Gregory family the distinction
of claiming three generations of Test cricketers.
* * * *
Sussex county began its cricket season
this year by winning its first three matches, a thing
it had not done for half a century. Then, meet-
ing Middlesex, it went to pieces; Warner, Lee,
Nigel Haig and Hearne, the first four to go in for
Middlesex, all scored over 100. This is another
“record.” Even N. S. Wales playing South Aus.
never quite managed it, though it has got five
centuries in the innings.
* * j * *
Sydney Evening News, in arranging last
week to donate an Aerial Derby Cup annually,
brought off one of the infrequent scoops of its cloist-
ered life. In a few years, perhaps a very few
years, the Air Derby may be the only affair of the
sort capable of arousing public interest. The first
race is to occur at Sydney in October under the
auspices of the Australian Aero Club.
* * * *
B. St. John (Q.) and Mrs. Ford (N.S.W.)
monopolised the honors in this year’s Queensland
tennis championships at Brisbane. St. John bril-
liantly won the men’s singles, defeating Jordan
(N.S.W.) by three sets to one (23-17) ; and, part-
nered with Wilson, he downed Jordan and Peach
(N.S.W.) in straight sets in the men’s doubles.
Mrs. Ford won the singles (straight sets), doubles
with Mrs. Henry (straight sets), and challenge pairs
with Peach (two sets to one). Both St. John
and Mrs. Ford take the Q.L.T. Association cups
by success in the singles for the third successive
•year.
Q. L. Deloitte has again been made presi-
dent of N.S.W. Bowing Association —for the twen-
tieth successive year. The veteran was one of four
who won the championship at the Anniversary
Regatta in 1862, and the same afternoon defeated
C. K. Moore for the singles.
* * » *
Joe Kirkwood, Australian open j’olf cham-
pion, shifts to Maoriland next month To help the
Dominion putt and foozle; later he will take off
the sweater in local golf championships. That
engagement over, he proposes tripping to England
for the 1921 championships. Taking figures for
it, he should go close to bringing rep. honors to
Australia.
“Birregurra” : The story by “Boz” (B.
29/7/’2O) about the golf ball that disappeared in
flight and was found in the bag of a player tramp-
ing ahead reminds me. A couple of years ago I
was playing round a country links with a friend.
He played a long second shot, and his ball stopped
near a young elm-tree. When my friend arrived
at the tree the ball was nowhere in sight. After
a long search we found it, down an old post-hole.
Hovering anxiously within an inch or so of the ball
was the startled head of a black snake, evidently
annoyed at his premature awakening from a winter’s
nap. The sober Scotch rules didn’t help us any.
But they didn’t assist the snake either.
* * * *
“R.H.”: Place this alongside “Boz’s” golf
experiences (29/7/’2O). At Concord (N.S.W.) last
week a player lifted a ball with a mighty swipe.
After smacking another player in the ribs it rolled
into his pocket, much to his own and the player’s
surprise. The hit was over 100yds. But among the
rarest happenings at golf is the uncanny luck which
helps along the beginner. Not long since, on a
Svdney course, a second-class player did a hole
(140yds:) in one stroke. The smiter was so over-
come that he shouted for all hands. The same
player nowadays finds it hard to do the hole in
three, and wonders whether constant practice at
golf tends to failure.
“Exul”: “J.G.’s” erratic bullet (B.
5/8/’2O) reminds me of a similar performance by
a cricket ball at New Norfolk (Tas.) some years
ago. The ball, a fast one, tipped the bat, hit the
wicket-keeper on the head and provided him with
a fine display of constellations, treated first slip
in the same manner, and was caught by second
slip. The batsman reckoned that he had the griev-
ance in getting out thus.
TRULY REGAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At Randwick on Saturday the Prince watched the
Steeplechase closely, but beyond seeing a good race
he gained nothing, having bet 8 to 1 on Cerise and
Grey. Starting prices were: 3 to 1 against Com-
promise, 10 to 1 each Cerise and Grey, Sweet Step
and Coominya.” —Sydney Evening News.
There are no stauncher loyalists than those who
hand the odds
Alike to “bloods” with walking-sticks and working-
men with hods;
Their readiness to deal with all and sundry never
fails,
But most of all they like to bet with Edward,
Prince of Wales.
When H.R.H. appears upon the outskirts of the
ring,
Each Hebrew heart begins to beat with hope like
anything;
And all pray fervently that they that day may be
allowed
To have a little flutter with the idol of the crowd.
It is not altogether for the honor of the deal,
Though that is an affair, of course, which makes
its due appeal.
The thing the books like best in him, when all is
said and done,
Is that he’ll lay them eights where they are laying
ten to one.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


WOULD YOU FIGHT OR RUN?
If you can’t do one you must do the
other, with its consequent loss of self-
respect and the shameful after-thoughts
that will haunt you like a nightmare.
Lack of confidence more than lack of
courage might be the real cause.
KNOWLEDGE breeds CONFIDENCE
—CONFIDENCE creates COURAGE.
I can give you that KNOWLEDGE
and CONFIDENCE which will enable
you to act a man’s part should the
necessity arise.
I Teach
Boxing by Post.
—teach you how to become a skilled and scientific
boxer. My methods are simple, practical and
thorough. You cannot fail to progress rapidly and
quickly, and you will learn all the “hits,” “stops”
and “moves” of the world’s most famous boxers.
Write for my interesting Booklet, “Scientific Boxing
in the Home,” which will be mailed FREE to
any address. Just write your name and address
across this advertisement and post it to me with
three stamps to cover postage.
ill
We specialise in high-class Box-
ing Gloves and shall be pleased
to supply prices on application.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,
316 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, (Corner Crown Street), SYDNEY.
WHIT MONDAY
at BROOKLANDS.
EACH EVENT and
EVERY PRIZE
were won by Cars lubricated with
j V/} KEF IE LB
Regtf.
MOTOR OIL ]
C.C. Wakefield 8 Co. Ltd.
5 Moore Street, Sydney; 8 London.
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Over the World*
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAfI ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNP.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 0.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
COUGHS, COLDS, &C.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
DOSE. —Give to a child one-year-old a
teaspoonful of the Mixture; two years,
a dessertspoonful; four or five years,
a tablespoonful; six to eight years,
one-and-a-half tablespoonful; ten to
twelve years, two tablespoonsful; for
fifteen and upwards; two-and-a-half
tablespoonsful.
These Doses to ie given every Six
Hours until the Patient is nearly welly
then twice a day till quite well.
None genuine without my Signature:
JPot further Directions refet
to Side 9 of Bottle.
H.B,—Persons found infringing
Trade Marks will be prosecuted.
This is the familiar label that is found on
every bottle of
GREATHEAD’S
MIXTURE
the safe, sure, and time-tested remedy for
Colds, Coughs, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Quinsy, Tonsilitis, Influenza and all Bron-
chial Troubles.
Chemists and Grocers sell it in generous-sized
bottles. If you would safeguard your health
always
Have a Bottle by you for
Colds or Sore Throats.
TONE UP YOUR
LIVER.
by taking “Greatoids,” the small but very
effective Liver Pills. They are sold at 1/-
and 1/6 by grocers and chemists. Their
action is mild and natural, and they don’t
form the pill habit. Don’t suffer from bilious-
ness or constipation.
TAKE
GREATOIDS.
A Well-matured Tobacco at Last!
“NOSEGAY”
MANUFACTURED BY T. C. WILLIAMS, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.
Most Pipe-smoking Troubles come from Using Tobacco that is too New.
%
NOSEGAY does riot bite the tongue!
NOSEGAY does not affect the nerves!
NOSEGAY burns down to the last particle in the pipe!
12/- per lb. 6/- per lib. 3/- per ilb.
Postage—N.S.W: 6d. for the first lb. and 3d. every additional lb.
Other States: Bd. for the first lb. and Gd. every additional lb.
SAMPLE TINS 1/4, Post Paid.
A. A. MARKS, LTD., 376 George St., Sydney,
Cigar and Tobacco Importers. BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
Economical Motive Power.
There is scarcely any class of machinery but what can be driven far
more advantageously, efficiently and cheaply by electricity than by
any other power.
'RHODES" MOTORS
are built to stand continuous and varied service, take up but a few
square feet of floor-space, and are liberally safeguarded against break-
down • of British manufacture, amply rated, and comply with all
requirements of the British Board of Trade; fitted With double-ring
oiling device which assures perfect lubrication.
SINGLE PHASE. Start up on full load; of the repulsion induction
type, and specially suitable for pumps, for driving hoisting apparatus
in mines, and for any other apparatus in which it is imperative that
the motor start instantly on full load.
Manufactured by RHODES MOTORS
I/TD., DONCASTER, ENGRAND.
Sole Agents:
HOMEWOOD 8 O’NEILL p.,. la
Head Offices and Warehouse: 172-176 William
Street, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 1: Somerset Place, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 2: Perrars Street, South Melb.
Sydney Office: 375 George Street.
r
ggTBWI
PERFECTION MARINE ENGINES
THE 2-H.P. “BANTAM” ENGINE
for installing inside your boat.
sd
SPECIFICATIONS,
tiore 2g, Stroke 2£,
R.P.M. 500 High-
tension Ignition.
DIM ENSIONS
OVER A EE.
Eength 16in., Width
10in., Height 16in.j
Weight 401 b.
THE “BANTAM”
MARINE MOTOR
drives your boat
from 7 to 9 miles
an hour. May be
easily operated and reversed without- pre-
vious experience of gasoline engines.
Suitable for Canoes, Rowboats, Dinghies, etc.
Ideal for the Week=end Fishing
For particulars of Caille Perfection 2-h.p. Inboard Motor and
Outboard Motors from 2 to 30 h.p., for Benzine or Kerosene fuel,
write direct to the sole agents for Australasia and the Pacific Islands,
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney. 344-6 Swanston Street,
Melbourne. 138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Also at Wellington, N.Z.
Cable Address—“Brosbenson.”
C. 330.


FARMER’S-SYDNEY
CHOCOLATES
vmimm mini unit
sN
V-/..1
■•■,7V
l •-
\\
Lady Margaret”
Chocolates
DELICIOUS
"Fresh-Made” CONFECTIONS
HERE is pictured one of the
choicest gems from Farmer’s
Confectionery Section. It is
the " Lady Margaret ” box of deli-
cious Assorted Chocolates. The
box is a dainty affair of gold and
black, and holds, temptingly en-
sconced, one pound of the most
pleasing chocolates, with rich al-
mond, nut and nougat fillings.
The price, per box, is .. .. 5/6
FARMER’S
Phone City 11,000 Box 497, G.P.O.
J
The Breath of Spring.
Lightsome as the early spring breezes
—-carrying with them an air of fresh-
ness—Shave creations for the present
season are irresistible. And the
elimination of tiresome fittings by the
Shave method of making adds to the
delights of a Shave Gown.
SHAVE
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
1
Centreway,
Melbourne.
fvsd
Vanity Fair Silk
Gloves are per-
fect in Texture,
Stitching, Style
and fit, finger
tips are design-
ed to give in-
creased, wear.
vs
A guarantee provides for
replacement free of charge if
finger tips wear through
before gloves are washed or
have given reasonable wear.
Your Draper should have
Vanity Fair Silk Gloves.
; trfi
am
MILLINERY
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust-Proof
Corsets
The Fedenfl Government farewelled the
G.-G. with a bit of flounder and chicken in
the Queen’s Hall last week. The tables
were decorated with wattle and daffodils, and
about a hundred appetites pretended to be
civilised as the viands went round. The
Priminister, who was chairman, told the
guest what he thought of him. in his best
after-dinner style he veined his speech
with anecdote and supplied some snap-
shots of inner Cabinet history. The G.-G.,
responding, plucked a few chestnuts to cheer
the gathering, but there was something like
an undertone of personal sorrow when he said
good-bye to our trees and sunshine. The
G.-G. has had a run of over six years here,
and has enjoyed pretty well every minute of
it.
Official farewells to the Munro Fergusons
over, their Exes, left for Sydney to say
their farewells to the Prince. Then Sir
Ronald goes north into Queensland —where
he may pick up another stick or two for his
great collection —and then south to Tas-
mania ; there may be another stick or two
there. Lady Helen will not do all this
racketting. She prefers to rest with that
other good fairy, the gilded mistress of
Yaralla.
Melbourne girls threw the morning paper
under the table when the names of the Forster
genthelps were published. Most of them are
married. General Wheatley, the late Governor
Fuller’s blase, monocled aide, who married
Esther Fairbairn, heads the list. The
Forster son-in-law, Capt. Pitt Rivers, will
drive the private-secretary’s pen, and Lord
Digby, an elegant Guardsman, ha.s a wife
who is also a blue-blooded young person.
The only bachelors are Capt. Traill, who is
said to be a son or nephew of a one-time
Loch aide who married a Sumner, and Capt.
Norman.
Dr. Charley Ryan’s belated order of
knighthood was quietly pinned beside his
lately-arrived C.B. decoration by the G.-G.
one evening last week.
Mayoress Stein helped Alderman Jeffries
to entertain councillors and their wives at
the quarterly civic dinner at the Town Hall.
The dailies made quite a feature of the “in-
formality” of the occasion. Venerable
councillors put on bon-bon paper hats and
caps, while the ghosts of old-time beadles
wrung their spectral hands.
When Governor Weigall and his dame
passed through Melbourne ori Friday last on
their way to Sydney, her Ex. muffled herself
in a copious, grey coat arid squirrel furs. A
couple of aides and daughter Priscilla’s
nurse followed with wraps. Two medicoes
also went in their wake : without them her
very wealthy Ladyship hardly moves. Barris-
ter Theyre Weigall and daughter Nancy
welcomed their cousins at Spencer-street on
arrival.
Saturday’s steeplechasing and sunshine
brought forth a crop of shiny straw hats in
all colors, and big spotted veils. But soon
Mrs. Stuart Murray was the most envied
woman on the course, for her mantle of Rus-
sian sable was a thing of utility as well as
glory. Mrs. Langlands Thomson was decked
out in purple. Mrs. Pursey Chirnside sported
a trim tailored suit in black and white strip-
ings, and had a very nice flapper son in
attendance. The Irvine lady wore dark
tailorings and furs.
Tom Givens, President of the new Senate,
gave members a tea. As it is just on seven
years since ,he last gave one, nobody but
the band spoke above a whisper. It had
been rumored that a new President would
enter office with at least one dinner-party
to which both Senators and their wives
would be asked. The shock evidently started
the present holder thinking. Anyway, Thomas
made an excellent host.
The Norman Hodges widow is hurrying
back to Australia to put a pin in sister
Roma Clarke’s bridal veil. The wedding is
due in the spring. The bridegroom-elect.
Col. Eric Harrison, is a New South Welsh-
man whose parents lately settled in Eng-
land. He has a staff job in the Apple
Island. The W. J. T. Clarke daughters are
showy girls whose chiffonery evidences the
calibre of the family banking-account.
Roma’s frocks are likely to thrill feminine
Hobart.
Mrs. Alec Murphy and her two daughters
are steaming back to Australia after six
years on the other side of the Equator. They
are coming this way to be with the head
, of the house, who had to cancel his intended
trip and go into a private hospital instead.
Mrs. Alec, who is a sister of Mrs. Sam
Staughton, was the reigning beauty of Mel-
bourne in the early ’eighties.
Clunes, the stronghold of Alec Peacock,
has given notice to the world that the week
from November 13 to 22 inclusive belongs to
it for a Back to the Old Place corroboree.
It proposes to have such a beano as will
keep its head swollen for a month after-
wards.
On Thursday afternoon Mrs. Crivelli hos-
tessed a cheery little tea-party at the Wattle
rooms to several Melbourne pen-women to
meet her charming Parisian daughter-in-law
and two other French brides, Mrs. Moss
Dawson and Mrs. Reddin. The table was
heavily flowered with golden Iceland poppies
and big posies of violets, one for each guest.
The only Crivelli daughter, Helene, arrived
with the ice-cream. The family spends a lot
of time admiring the two-months-old grand-
son.
Adelaide calls the roll:
The Weigall pair and their extensive retinue have
left for a week or two. The Princeling, who calls
them both by their front names, specially
asked to see them in Sydney before he leaves! En
route they dropped niece Nancy Weigall in Mel-
bourne ; she is a cheery damsel who has been enjoy-
ing life hugely in Adelaide.
The Hunt Club revived one of its pre-war fixtures
when it ran the point-to-point at Findon on Satur-
day. A large sporting crowd turned up in cars and
drags—one drag genuine old English, coachman, horn
and all. The spectators had an excellent view of
the Master’s (E. M. Luxmoore’s) popular win on
the game old battler Foin.
A kindred revival was the Hunt Club Ball on
Wednesday at the Town Hall. The sporting atmo-
sphere was attained by the suspension of saddles,
bridles and other gear round the hall. Above the
dais were the very handsome trophies of past events.
Their Exes, and all the Best People were there.
Captain Pete Davies, A.A.M.C., son of Professor
Davies, of the Conservatorium, a clever youth whose
bald pate and solemn face belie his years, has been
paying a flying visit to his parents before returning
to Edinburgh to take up a University lectureship.
Col. Dave Fulton, well known in pre-war sporting
circles, and better as O.C. of the 3rd Light Horse,
has fallen in love with the land he soldiered in, and
has picked a farm in Palestine.
Violinist Erica Chaplin was tendered a compli-
mentary farewell concert at the Town Hall on Tues-
day. She is off to Europe to complete her studies.
Mollie Clampett, the witty daughter of a really
human archdeacon, wedded breezy Tom Bowen on
the 14th. They’re a popular pair.
Vera Fotheringham lias promised manager White
of the Burns-Philp line at Thursday Island to meet
him at the altar shortly. Likewise popular Kathleen
Macully, swimmer and youngest daughter of pictur-
esque Anglican-parson Macully, of Brighton, is
pledged to Primrose AVhite, of Millswood.
Nora Lungley, who has worn herself out doing
man’s work for four years in the Exhibition base-
ment, packing and nailing up cases of comforts for
the A.1.F., leaves next week for a two years’ trip
round the world. She is accompanied by Madge
Yeatman, who did her bit as a nurse in Franee.
Captain G. H. Wilkins paid Adelaide a visit—he
is an Adelaide product-—prior to leaving for England
to organise the scientific staff of the latest British
Antarctic expedition. The adventurous “Wilky” will
be second in command. He knows sufficient about
icebound regions, having had three years with
Stefansson in the Arctic.
Mrs. E. E. Bode, who died the otiier day, arrived
at Glenelg with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. George
Ayliffe, in 1838 ; the doctor pitched his tent along-
side that of Governor Gawler on the site of the
present Glenelg Town Hall. In her younger days
the lady contributed many verses, stories and articles
to the S. Australian press.
This sweet sister, Gertrude Fleming,
nursed right through the war, and is now
in charge of the military sanatorium at
MacLeod. She is the daughter of the late
William Fleming, of
Ascot Vale; and
Flemington was
named after his
father. Sister Flem-
ing belonged to the
Army Nursing Ser-
vice, and when war
was declared she
was away with the
first. She had two
years in Egypt, then
went to England,
served there for
eight months, and
the rest of the time
was in France —she
was there when the
Armistice was
signed. Before she
left England she had
the K.R.C., and later, while in France, she
got into Haig’s despatches. There are few
girls with more talents. Before taking up
nursing she studied art at the Gallery, and
she finished up her music with Marshall
Hall at the Conservatorium.
I)enis, son of Mrs. Lucy Wood, of Elstern-
wick, has persuaded a nice girl to say “Yes.”
She is Eileen Reilly, sister of Virgil, the
classically-named black-and-white artist.
Eric Asche, who was at Melbourne Uni.
when the bugles began to blow, has been
called to the English Bar. Fighting with
the Diggers, he won a Military Medal, and
when the job was over went to Oxford
and secured his B.A. with honors. Actor
Oscar is his uncle.
A note from a recent exhibition
When people heard that the sales from my little
art show amounted to a trifle over £lOO, they
hastened to congratulate me. “And your first show,
too!” Yes; but when you come to deduct £2O
for a week’s hire of the room, commission on sales
(25 per cent.), cost of frames, canvases, paints,
cartage, etc., and bear in mind that I had been
three months on the job, you will see that wharf-
lumping pays better.
Perhaps it does, on the basis of the first
show. But courage! It depends on the dauber
whether it will be the same on the basis of
the twenty-first.
The committee of the Queen Victoria Hos-
pital for Women, with the Irvine dame as
leader, is going to fight hard for more cash.
Even card-parties at the Town Hall are
threatened. But the supporters of the hos-
pital are up against the Peace Loan cam-
paign at the moment.
Monteath gives you the latest of Topsie
Doenau, who sparkles in the background of
the Daisy Kennedy recitals. Topsie’s ap-
pointment as accompanist to the brilliant
Daisy is the apex of
a friendship that
began in Adelaide
and endured through
student days i n
Vienna and London.
It was in the Aus-
trian capital before
the war that Topsie
got a salvo of super-
-lati v e s from the
critics. Crossing tc
London, she repeated
the experience, and
later on commenced
the p a rtnershi p
which will be tem-
porarily dissolved
when Daisy Iven-
nedy leaves for
America. The clever
little pianist is privately known as Mrs.
Percy Saunders, and she owns a promising
four-year-old named David. Like her old
pal, she is a South Australian, and won an
Elder scholarship in Adelaide after studying
under the brilliant Bryceson Trehearne.
A cheque for £lOO or so will flutter into
the Queen Victoria Hospital Fund as a
result of a Town Hall bridge afternoon
organised by Mrs. Cabena and Mayoress
Stein. “Dummy” could step along and
buy a bunch of violets or carnations at
a stall presided over by Mrs. Carnegie, of
Kew; while Mrs. George Tallis, Mrs. Craig
and Mrs. Lane filled, and washed up teacups
with a beautiful disregard for well-mani-
cured hands.
At the end of the year Isaacs, J., will
probably take the spell lie has earned and go
to the Cold Country to see married daughter
Nancy, who was formerly his court asso-
ciate. As he is an ex-State Attorney-General
and ex-Commonwealth Attorney-General, and
as he has long been regarded with great
respect by lawlords in London, it is not
likely that he will come back without the
offer of at least a P.C.
Major Jack Pain, of Melbourne, is think-
ing of going off to India. Jack is a favorite
of Birdie’s, who writes him the most affec-
tionate letters. So he thinks he will be off
to seek his fortune in the land of the Rajah
and the deodar. But not till after the end
of all the Prince festivities, thank you !
Frances Frazer, well known to many Mel-
bourne girls as a governess at the Presby-
terian Ladies’ College, has arranged a series
of literary and travel talks* She gave the
first on “The Fascination of Florence” at
South Yarra and Kew, and followed it with
“A Day in Old London” at St. Kilda the
same week. She is continuing the good
work in the schools of the three suburbs.
Brisbane’s social patrol:—
Bert Dowling is to marry the pretty .auburn-
haired Harkness girl next week. And Jock Kent,
one of the Jondaryan tribe, and little Miss Cunning-
ham are to have a joint wedding at Young (N.S.W.)
at the end of the month.
The Lieut.-Governor left with his son Bill for
the Northern Rivers yesterday. While he is away
Chief Justice Pope Cooper takes the reins.
Died on Monday, Bartley Fahey, M.L.C., aged 84.
He spent 65 of his years in Bananaland. The old
gentleman’s straight back was the envy of many a
man 40 years his junior, and he played a rattling
game of golf up to the last. Appointed to the
Customs in ’65, he put in some years in the Gulf
country, then went to Rockhampton in ’B5, and
stayed there until he left the service. A keen
horseman, cricketer and racing enthusiast, and one
of the best type of Irishmen.
Another pioneer has gone on at 89 —Mrs. Alexander
Pollock, whose husband was one of three who pegged
out the first reef claim on Gympie.
Frazier Hunt, representative of the Chicago
Times, is in Brisbane, looking into industrial con-
ditions and the White Australia policy. Hunt was
in France as a war correspondent, and after the
Armistice was war correspondent with the Allied
expeditions in Archangel, etc.
R. T. Jeffries, one of the founders of the Brisbane
Musical Union, and for years its conductor, died
recently. His last public appearance was at the
Verbi'ugghen concerts,- the old artist doubtless wish-
ing to see the man who in 1893 conducted the
Alhambra Orchestra, London, which he himself had
led 20 years before.
One more instance of the baleful effects of the
Bananaland climate. David Laurie, who arrived at
Brisbane in 1863 by the Beejapore (the first ship to
visit Rockhampton), succumbed to it this week. He
was only 94.
Annie Hughes, the popular daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Charlie Hftghes, lias changed her name. Hus-
band is returned soldier Monty Alroe. son of the
late Peter, who was well known in Charters Towers
and Rockhampton. The little bride was upholstered
in white Belgian lace over white georgette.
The Uni. last week entertained Vic. Grenning,
the Rhodes scholar, at a farewell dance, and pressed
gifts on him.'
The mothers and others who take neg-
lected waifs and strays from the State in
Victoria are asking for an increase from 7s.
to 10s. a week per infant, which seems little
enough in these h.c.l. days. Under the new
regime at the Neglected Children’s Depot,
10 more nurses and helpers have been ap-
pointed, besides the previously-mentioned
new doctor and matron. The former matron
was refused any additional help, notwith-
standing that hard times had converted tin-
depot from a receiving home into a children’s
hospital.
Daisy Kennedy and husband Benno have
departed with little daughter Tanya and the
rest of the suite. Tanya is a dark-eyed child
who is indefinably reminiscent of Jier parents
in certain profiles, but threatens to repeat
her mother’s unusual bronze hair. Tin-
youngster is frequently fingering the piano,
and is the heroine of innumerable yarns tes-
tifying to her promise. One tale, however,
shows the infant in a more natural aspect.
The fond parents spotted Tanya leave her
cot and head, for the music-room. They had
thoughts of somnambulism, but these soon
faded before the glorious suspicion that the
child was going to emulate the infant Han-
del, who, it seems, had been discovered one
midnight getting music from an old spinet
in his garret at Halle. Tanya went up to
the grand piano, began prodding in its inside,
and, eventually rescued a plant of chocolates
which she had been previously forbidden to
eat. The dazed parents retired, smitten with
the discovery that prodigies will be children
now and again.
John McCormack has settled down in a
flat at Cliveden Mansions, where he is only
a step from a tennis-court, which his waist-
line has made one of the necessaries of life.
John longs to see less of his vest; but.
despite careful dieting, plenty of tennis and
long walks in garments suitable for a wast-
ing jockey, Little Mary declines to lose her
rank and dignity. At his summer home in
Connecticut he has a symposium of flesh-
reducers ranging from an axe and a wood-
heap to an array of bar-bells. He has been
known to go off for a spanking 10 miles
before breakfast and spend the rest of the
day in further endeavors -to keep the enemy
down. It is a pathetic case.
Daisy Kennedy, charming artist though
she be, fails to draw the houses her Benno
Moiseiwitsch did in Melbourne. It certainly
can’t be- the fault of her playing. Perhaps
lier personal pose and classic dressing are
responsible. Benno was “so simple and so
magnetic,” the women say. There is evi-
dently still enough of the old Eve in Mel-
bourne women to make them prefer a man
artist any day to a mere person of their
own sex.
Emelie Polini was handed a heap of
vegetation and good wishes at her final
night at the King’s on Friday. Some
of the bouquets showed wild ingenuity
on the part of their creators; but
the actress suffered other devious forms of
punishment for her popularity. One gift
was a large and mysterious glass bowl, and
another was a baby fox-terrier with a blue
ribbon and a letter attached to its neck.
Emelie frantically hugged the pup and poured
out eulogies of this continent and its people.
She talks now of appearing in Australia
again after a few months on her husband’s
farm.
Eardley Turner has had the great sorrow
of his life. For many weeks past his wife
has been desperately ill; and the end came
early this week. A wave of sympathy flows
in upon him from a wide circle of friends.
John D. O’Hara, in “Three Wise Fools,’’
played to a packed first-night house on Satur-
day at the King’s, and then pulled Mel-
bourne’s leg in a little after-curtain speech.
The Jack Fiskens saw that they got the
front row of the stalls. Nearby were Mrs.
.Tack Mackey with a hairdressing effect and
Mrs. Wallace. Walter Kirby arrived with
a party of nice old ladies. The firms com-
prising the Entente and their womankind
deserted their boxes in order to welcome John
McCormack m the Town Hall.


v Sill f' * W* l %» 1 ;Ti
Wjfe " *>A.^
■
HHLfe
iPIsSPI O^H
' n 1
■
Hi
Wlisitl
rfe
»I
MMimm
• - j ■ ■ ■ •■ .
■
. - - 11 , n
f *f *V . W*#^
Ml P
'*y» «’, i > vT'
»* S
■
m
H [\{ ,
'/ ? «*< »
-au. y 'm
- '
Usifvs ■ ••. -
S 3
. .
ff rM&mitfr
msb
jw—r.- ■***»-
>-, >^.«ip>'iiiii'>».<
. J ..„- ) , < «MiMI.«:,»:».W,.- • ‘ V, ;■
' : - '■ •Wif /
SSP
*»&&**<* * ¥v
yn:2
’ ii'iiMriTi' -
' - '■■*'' i * w ** w ®* ■ *
■.■■■■■•■■
;
feilfilftfel#
$
jAv; , , -tf r% s *W\
>'■ .
. , fftfeW -
. ..
.... ... . '■ ' ' - ' ... ..
„
1 , , . <,*
***■
..;,,. *‘ ,'. ; , ; V '. ■ .-,... Jo, *>. AiA»*rt- ! ' '
, ' ■ .••■
y%z£L., ,• }
THE CALL-WHAT IS IT?
BLACK and white
WHISKY


Charles
HtIDSIECK’S
Vintage 1911
OfIMIE
HE PLUS ULTRA
■x
■
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
WONDER-WILKIN
Car Batteries.
Manufactured locally from the highest
quality materials—and priced at a
moderate figure—the “WONDER-
WILKIN” already has many friends
amongst the motoring public.
They appreciate the value offered so
will you eventually. Why not inquire
from your Garage to-day?
WHOLESALE ONLY.
Bennett 8 Barkell Ltd.,
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
'V r
■) C
Jhroai 9rrttaHon
and Coughing
rrf°. Prevalent among: audiences during
Winter time, is very disconcerting to the
speaker, whether he he dis- ■
cussing from the platform
or pulpit. B y takinjr
1/6 & 2/6
IRISH MOSS
For COUGHS and COI.DS
you will not mar the conduct of the lecture or Service. A
few doses ot Bonnington’s will relieve throat irritation,
and by continuing the treatment you will soon rid yourself
of all cause for coughing. Bonnington’s is the safe remedy
and is sold everywhere—do not experiment with doubtful
substitutes. 1/6 and 2/6. 8.A.18.
BOHNIHOTON'S j
j i
iM
IRISH "MOSS; :
CJCOKCE aONMIMCTON
sszasas&atsa:'
=~~-y
I LOTT
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
David
Jones
Cataloger.
When Governor Davidson’s carriage with
its eight outriders drove in majesty along
Macquarie-street the other day, two small,
breathless boys hastily put all other business
aside to watch the movie being acted; and
then, to their disgust, they found it was only
Parliament being opened. However, they
were in at the death, when Sir Walter, all
gold lace and cocked hat, with three aides
polished and shining to the last button,
stepped from his carriage. Macquarie-street
was well peopled, many with cards for the
opening; but so dense was the crowd within
that it was impossible to even squeeze into
a doorway. Sir Walter, who is a very fine
costume actor, got every ounce of elfect out
of his background; but Lady Davidson, in
the unobtrusiveness of mole color, was shooed
almost out of the picture—just as though she
were the vice-regal family secret. The new
Ministry’s wife sat in the seats of the mighty
and looked down with pride on her young
lord. For the new Government strikes one
with its youthfulness; and perhaps that is
because Labor and Socialism and Progress
are the battering-rams of the Young, who,
as they grow older, build themselves walls to
guard the peaceful pastures they have won;
and all walls are conservative. The band
played the Anthem in fine style; the Guard
of Light Horsemen saluted crisply; the red
carpet glowed like a ruby in the sunlight;
and two small boys mooched off. Once
more Parliament was free to discuss the
North Shore bridge.
A withering gale swept across Randwick
on Saturday, and woman huddled into her
sables and her rabbit-skins with remarks
about the special Prince Meeting that
were very nearly seditious. The young
man in the grey coat and the pommy hat
sat for a very little while in the vice-regal
pen with the Weigall and Davidson Exes.;
then he crossed the lawn, the crowd billow-
ing after him, into the official stand, where
Mollie Little moored the royal arms, with
Mrs. Harry Chisholm to keep a duenna eye
upon _ them. Both the ladies wore navy
tailorings and small weather-proof headgear.
Lady Davidson carried the royal blue toque
and a black forest of sables. Lady Weigall
stuck to grey cloth and the softness of squir-
rel. Wedgwood blue and a French poodle-
skin kept the cold from Ailsa Cullen. The
Bell girls came from Coochin, Enid in navy
with a cloak arrangement that showed the
old-rose lining at the seams. Mrs. Ilunteir
White had one of the handsomest fur coats
present, and stayed in its cosy comfort;
Beryl Stratton, playing a final lone hand,
wore the blue of the French soldier; Mrs.
J. J. Smith (who was Miss Turner, of Mark
Hoy’s) looked like a handsome banking-
account in Russian sables and a tight-fitting
toque made of the breasts of little birds.
There was a coat that repented coming
from Paisley, and cut its existence short
below its wearer’s waist with a band of
sable. Cloaks, and heels with wuiists, arid
the new crocheted hats were a feature of
the dressing; and Dr. Mclvelvey’s little wife
combined a costume of pastel tints, a soft
blue cloth hat and tl;e slimmest ankles at the
meeting.
Last Thursday’s dance on the Renown
was a freezing affair in more ways than one.
The westerly whipped the dresses almost
off the dancers’ backs, or wherever they wore
them, in spite of awnings and decli-flaps.
And all the red and white bunting and
scarlet-coated bandsmen in the world
couldn’t have warmed the girls who ,sat in
the cloak-room half through the night for
lack of partners. But what could the best-
looking girl in the world expect who goes
to a dance on a ship that sports an albatross
for an ornament? Bad luck will pursue her
at every jazz party. She will adorn the
wall oftener than she will take the floor, and
matrimony will pass her by. Still, every-
body who got a card chanced the curse and
pneumonia, though about 10 o’clock a bunch
of the local navy left to warm its toes and
have some fun before shutting-up time at the
Wentworth. New Commodore Edwards’s
lady wore black tulle with cherry fittings
Bowkers and Moreaus and Allens and
Osbornes, with McMasters and the Ricardo
sisters, all the Port Jackson Navy, David
hell and his Honorable wife, and Mrs.
V ivers were among those who shivered and
danced through the bitter-cold evening.
Every lass loves a sailor, so it was no hard
task for the Tourist Department to arrange
a dance for the Bluejackets and Petty Offi-
cers of the Renown and the R.A.N. The
departmental J. S. Cormack and A. J. Mil-
son had the mustering of the girls; and
V.A.’s, workers in the voluntary cafes and
girls from Government Departments and the
Commonwealth Bank and some of the big
drapery firms made themselves as dainty and
as charming for “the men” as they would have
done ijor Teddy himself. Everybody was
out for a night’s fun, so the old Concordia
Hall became a regular typhoon when the
miles of cloth that billow around the sailors’
legs got a 70-knot jazz going. The boys
dance well. As the Lancashire laddie said,
'".We often have a dance at sea, and soom-
times you’re the man, and soomtimes you’re
the gel. Of course, that’s when it’s calm ;
the bahnd only plays for us when it’s very
calm. It plays for the officers every night at
dinner. An’ soomtimes it plays for us dur-
ing our dinner. But it must be calm.” It
was a mystery beyond the landsgirl, so we
let it go. One of the boys is extraordinarily
like H.R.PI. He seems to have under-
studied the Royal Youth’s method, and the
resemblance from the other side of the room
is positively startling. Another might have
been Mountbatten’s twin brother, except that
he has a pleasanter mouth. The lancers were
danced, preceded by a march that started two
and two, fell into fours, and then into
eights; and the eight that came down abreast
formed a set. Some of the flappers didn’t
know the figures, and the lads had great
fun teaching them. Altogether it was a
night of real happiness, to which ex-soldier
Gillard's music piped the tune.
At the dance aboard the Renown, each
arriving gubst was handed a card instruct-
ing you how to find your way about, and
where to sit when you wanted to hold her
hand and all that. The big guns were used
to fire _ toy, balloons at the guests, but no
casualties resulted. One girl guest who
danced with the Princeling during his first
week with us had painted on her bare arm
a representation of his feathers and motto.
A party of young Aussies managed to be
entertained aboard the Renown on a day
all to themselves. Clad only in neck-to-
knees, they took a boat and went a-sailing
round the big ship. At a given moment
their coracle capsized, with the result that
a rescue-party put off from the visitor and
brought the lads aboard, where they were
dried and fed and had a good time generally.
Even as The Bulletin sinks to'rest in
the linotype’s arms the ballroom at Merioola
is being polished for the Royal slipper.
Everybody who has made a hit with H.R.11.
has been summoned to the spree.
Whenever a census of female opinion aged
’3O or over is taken on the matter of electric-
light shades, pale pink is hailed as favorite
by a strong choir. So the Town and Coun-
try matrons had the light of other days upon
cheek and shoulder-blade as they' jazzed
across the polished surface of the Paddington
ffown Hall, where the wily decorator had
flung rosy garlands athwart and abeam.
About 500 of the elect arrived on rubber
tyres and emptied themselves into cloak-
room and hall; only the cream of the social
dairy was present, and the little pots of
skim-milk were left to turn as sour as they
Oked about it. The brasses and the bones
and the drums had a Dutch-English garden
for background. Yiee-regalty, with the Cul-
lens for ramparts, arrived towards supper-
time, her Ex. wearing a heavyweight silk
that carried the usual train, while
the Cullen lady combined white satin and
black lace in her make-up. Mrs. George
\ ivers was swathed in charm and white
satin and tulle; Mrs. Rabett struck a ’cello-
like note in black net, with a ship’s cargo
ot jet supporting it; handsome Mrs. Tom
Watson contrasted grey and scarlet—scarlet
is the very last Paris word. The Littles
and the Knoxes sat on opposite sides of the
lie in the blue-and-silver dress
H.R.H. was so partial to; Mrs. Cumberlege
looked like half a rainbow, mixing silver
and honey color and royal blue: ' Phyllis
Macarthur was in green brocade ; and Mrs.
iony Hordern took all the bloom from the
milder-hued peaches, and jumped Ladv
Helen s claim with her petunia plumage.
Mrs. Steer Bowker, Mrs. Charles Ross and
Mrs. I red Merewether were among the host-
esses ; and Mrs. Kendall’s emerald-green
frocking looked like a John McCormack con-
Apollo struck his blooming lyre all right
at the Conservatonum. the other eveninir •
and in spite of the Women’s Prohibition
campaign, the ‘lnvocation to Bacchus”
received a good hearing from a crowded
audience. Conductor Alfred Hill’s “Thekla’s
bong was one of the joys of a programme
that also contained “Rolling Down to Rio ”
Jean Drummond made her second Svd'nev
appearance in Santuzza’s air from “Caval-
leiia Rusticana. In addition she presented
f, br 7 n t a “ d f oW frock to the audience;
the skirt of velvet and the tunic of brown
‘ K , g . o d brocade. The dress was short as
to skirt but long as to train; the latter
commenced at the shoulders and trailed on
the door, making a fine background for the
brown ankles to which the brown slippers
were moored by criss-crossed ribbons. Sister
Laite, who played her accompaniments in
the most sympathetic fashion, looked like
a meringue, all white taffeta puffs, with a
ribbon train that might have been a droop-
ing souffle of white-of-egg and sugar. Her
shoes were also ribboned high above the
ankles ; and the hip puff's of her dress car-
ried garlands of flowers. A well and happy-
looking John Lemmone piped his lay; and
Governor Davidson, who was there with his
lady, spoke on the Peace Loan.
Save Mackennal Eva F. Benson has
more Royal Academy exhibits to her credit
than any other marble-carver of Aussie birth.
Miss Benson is small and slim and dark and
wholly enveloped in a cloak of modesty. To
begin life she chose South Australia, and
happened alive at Gawler. But she had
her first lessons in art at Perth, and gath-
ered all the scholarships that city had to
offer; then London drew her, and 1912 saw
her a pupil of the Regent-street Polytechnic,
i hat year she pulled off a special prize for
still-life painting, and gained the highest
award given to her school at the National
Competition, which is a field open to all the
leading art-schools of the Empire. About
this time Miss Benson felt a desire to
express some of her fancies in clay. In 1915
her life-sized marble bust of Winthrop
Hackett—now owned
by the Perth Gallery
—was accepted by the
R.A. In 1917 three
more works were
hall-marked by the
same authority! One,
a male, represented
the Allies treading
underfoot the false
peace offerings of
Germany—the sup-
posed dove taking
the form of a spar-
rowhawk. The figure
is strong and virile
in its defiance.
It was in 1918
that the statuette of
Persephone bore its
message of Spring
and eternal youth into the Academy, * cap-
tured the President and the Council, and
made them as keen for the daffodil-picker
as I uto hnnselt. The statuette depicts the
u /, onn S? ised * n alarm as she
catches the rustling among the grasses, and
spilled about the exquisite feet are the daffo-
dils she has dropped in .her sudden fright
1 ersephone wax bought by Colonel Hugh
Keul, one of the vice-presidents of the
Koyal Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts.
Another fine piece, of work accepted bv the
it.A. is Peace in Exile.” The exhibit in
the present Academy is a Psyche who,
ie '', search for Cupid, sinks to
lest, and in the very act her eye flashes
•u-riw h °l p H and , jo ? as k falls «POn the
anow ot the god she seeks.
Miss Benson came back to Australia a
few weeks ago, and is in Sydney, where her
parents lately settled. How long she wS
shmildn’A as V et , uncertain. But she
snouldn t be allowed to go until she has
enriched Australian collections. The photo-
graph is by Judith. Fletcher. 1
The rectory at St. Paul’s, Redfern, is
undergomg renovations for the reception of a
bndo. Archdeacon Boyce is about to lead
widow Burton, of Homebush and St. James’s,
to the altar. It is a' question of teetotal 7G
Jinking up with buxom middle-age. The
ewent is listed for a few weeks hence at St
Andrew s and it is thought that the Bishop
of Aimidale will ask the leading questions.
VV ilfreda Ruddock Leitch, whose dad is
John Leitch, of Bfobenah and Glenlea. Lee-
ton ’ ?ugaged herself to George Garn-
say St-Clair Potts, and Ms dad is the Prin-
cipal of Hawkesbury College.
Mrs. Vera Ford, for six years an advertis-
es manager of San Francisco Call, is in
Sydney. She tells how her husband was
writing in I iji when war broke out; he came
to Sydney and enlisted in the 25th Light
lorse. Po fill time she got a canvasser’s
joh on the Call, and after six months was
made manager of a department. Father is
a successful Chicago advertising-man, and
an advertising poster has always attracted
Vera more than candy. Her husband is
now writing syndicated articles about Aus-
tralia.
Mrs. Watson Iloldship, who has done
so much good work for the Exeter Soldiers’
Home, has become organising sec. of the
fejdney Hospital Auxiliary—the vacancy
was created by Mrs. Le M. Walker, who set
the effort going over a year ago, and is still
on the committee.
Mrs. Fred Jolley has arrived in Sydnev
from Aoo Yoik, and leaves shortly for
Labaul; her husband was British Consul
there before the War, and is now on the staff
ot General Griffiths.
Letters from the Ranee of tell
or a private interview with the King and
LJueen, and speak of a ball to be given in
her honor by Mrs. George Keppel.
Mrs. \\ illiams, who annexed a golf cham-
rr® ie °tber day, is a daughter
ot Mrs. Hope Lewis, of Auckland ; and she
i\ aS xj c * au »diter of the late Colonel Fenton.
JJr. Hope Lewis died recently; his widow,
charming and well preserved and as well
gowned, accompanied her daughter. The
joung champion, by the way, is wedded to
I’uhl ie aiK^( 'd Williams family of Maori-
Between Ourselves” is the intimate title
or the bright baby-newspaper edited and
printed by David Jones’s employees. It has
xx , women editors —the first Miss
houdnnier; the next and present, Miss
Lallan, a bright little girl witlr an eye as vel-
a haby kangaroo’s. The two balls
.hat the Firm indulged in lately let loose a
flood of ink in sketches and paragraphs. The
sketch of the Sultan of the Tobacco Counter
no doubt explains the heavy lunch-hour turn-
over m cigars during these last weeks.
If you had turned into Sydney Botanic
Gardens on a morning last week, entering at
the gates where the lions, tame from a long
vegetarian diet, smile a gentle welcome,
youd have found the paths and the flights
or steps standing out very distinctly in the
high sunlight; and if you had followed the
path past the green grass alternately
dappled with the shadows of the little white
clouds and patterned with the leaves of the
bougby trees, past the sundial with a
Japanese magnolia heavy with bloom on
its right, and rather to the. left the wishing-
tree around which even at that early hour
a young woman and a small boy walked with
fi would have been verv near
the Museum. On the steps you turn to
have one more look at the spring sky, the
rustling leaves and the newly-turned garden-
beds over which a spray of water so fine
tnat it looks like curling smoke is being
blown Then you enter the office, heavy
with the scent of naphthaline and moth-ball.
Upon a wave of this you mount the stair-
way lined with portraits of the field
naturalists and botanists of all ages and
climes. ■
the book-shelves are many volumes of
Air. Maiden s own “Forest Flora,” and into
this has also been poured 20 years of the
life of Miss Floekton. Miss Flockton is
small, with a bright face and kindly humor-
ous eyes under the white hair. AH day, from
mne till half-past four, she has sat for
“r years drawing the illustrations for the
Museum s big work. Botanical!y and o. P() .
metrically correct, twig and leaf'live again
under her pen, as though still on the bough.
Gutside the grass grows and the trees
i ustle; the magnolia blooms and fades and
blooms again; but the two women (Miss
lHockton now has a helper) bend over their
work that Forest Flora” may live on and
be counted great.
All the Museum workers are enthusiasts,
and no union rules apply ; Sundays and holi-
days are given over to research and field
work. Field-naturalist Hamilton specialises
on grasses and sand dunes; and, by the way.
the L leld Naturalists have this year their
president—Miss Brewster, of
the Girls’ High School.
Here’s a May
Moore picture of
J enny Cullen, who
doesn’t need intro-
ducing', for her fiddle
has long ago sung
its way into your
hearts at Conserva-
torium concerts. To-
morrow (Friday) she
gives her first Syd-
ney recital at the
Conservatorium i n
company with Laur-
ence Godfrey Smith.
It is to be a Sonata
evening, and the pro-
gramme is very
beautiful. Bach
(classical, but this
sonata is quite jolly),
Mozart (delicious and humorous'), and the
glorious Brahms A major. Now, see to
your bookings.
Down the stairs again, past the case
where the malformed plants stare wistfully
out past the outer room to the porch where
the fresh pots of wild-flowers are gazed down
upon by their painted sisters, the work of
Mrs. Kowan and Miss Flockton. The
young woman and the boy are gone from
the wishmg-tree; but at the turning a flight
ot birds flutter low across the path, and
make a survey for their new summer resi-
dence.
Rothsay, which looks out on Rose Bay
and beyond, has changed hands after bein'-
years in the Richard Norrie family. They
purchased the house from one of the Bell
and Davis duo, who left hurriedly in a
yacht for parts unknown, and have not since
been heard of.


fvsd
STB
1853
JEWELLERS
Diamond and Platinum
Bar Brooches.
The illustrations are but representative of a choice
selection which, for quality and design, is the finest in
the Commonwealth.
Pine Single-stone Diamond Bar.
£95.
Fine Diamond Three-stone Bar.
£46.
Sent on
approval
if desired.
All Platinum Bar, with Diamond Cluster.
£66.
Sent on
approval
if desired.
Platinum and Gold Bar, with Diamond Trefoil.
£9.
Platinum and Gold Bar, Set Diamonds.'
£36.
Platinum and Gold Bar, with Diamond Cluster.
£2B.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
London,
298 Collins Street,
Melbourne,
I'ZT"
ilOl
min
«l
liiiiiliiillimimt mil
Iml
mi mi
a /
4
S'/f
Ok
KnvTl
: K/i
Pf
•
\
Hot Water and Steam Cooking for 80
Guests at a Cost of 3/- per day.
For raising hot water in volume the Ideal Boilers are absolutely the most
effective and economical means in use to-day. They have a small fuel
consumption, run from five to eight hours without recharging with fuel,
and are quickly mastered by the novice. They will supply from 16 to ISO
gallons of hot water per hour, according to size. The owner of a large
boiler writes, “Where I used a barrow-load of coke with the old system, with
the Ideal Boiler I use one shovelful only.’’
Ideal Boilers are Rustproof
Late designs are rustproof; we guarantee them to deliver water free from
rust and discoloration. If you have a large establishment, require plenty of
hot water and desire to do your cooking by steam as well, install the Ideal
Low-pressure Steam Boiler.
The Manager of a large hotel writes: —
Ideal No. 12L>
Domestic Boiler.
“Your Ideal Boiler raises steam in 20 minutes, and
reduces attention to fire by one-fifth. The Boiler supplies
steam to Bain Marie, Carving Table, Steam Press, 10-
gallon Urn, five Sinks, and maintains a temperature of
160 degrees in a 230-gallon cylinder of water. The Boiler
uses 2cwt. of coke per day of 16 hours, compared with Bcwt.
per day with the vertical boiler. Capacity of hotel, 80
guests.” Cost of fuel, 3/- per day.
Expert information furnished and “lay-outs” provided.
Write or call.
JOHN DANKS 8 SON PTY. LTD.,
324 PITT STREET (near Liverpool Street), SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS of
The Clark-Wesley Gold Mining
Co. N.L., Gundagai, Adelong, N.S.W.
Nominal Capital: £BO,OOO
Divided into 80,000 Shares of £1 each.
40,000 Contributing shares are offered to the public, payable 5/- on
application, including allotment, and the balance in calls as
and when required. No call will be made before the expiration
of six months from date of allotment; after that date calls not
exceeding 2/6 per share may be made when required.
40,000 Fully-paid £1 Shares to be issued to the Vendors and the group
of about fifty persons who assisted in developing the property,
as part consideration for the property and assets.
807600
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS :
J. E. DONQGIIUE, M.1.E.E., M'.Am., I.E.E. Electric Light and Power Supply Corpora-
tion, Ltd.).
JOHN H. KING (Chairman of Directors, Tyrconnell Gold Mines).
THEO J. MARKS, Architect (Director Mercantile Mutual Insurance Company, Ltd.).
Dr. DONALD MacMASTER, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
J. HARLEY McLAUGHLIN, Solicitor, Hunter Street, Sydney.
V. A. WAWN, Manufacturing Chemist (Wawn’s Wonder Wool).
SECRETARY:
H. F. lIELDER, F.1.A.A., 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BANKERS:
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED, George Street, Sydney.
SOLICITORS :
JOHN McLAUGHLIN and SON, Union B ink Chambers, Hunter Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS:
MACFIE, MODLIN and DRUMMOND, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
CONDENSED REPORT BY MR. E. W. BONWICK, F.G.S.
(LONDON), A.M.1.M.M., M.A.I.M.E.
The property is situated 9 miles from the Railway Station of Gundagai; its
LEASES are pegged to COVER A LENGTH along the strike of the lode of 6000
FEET; good TIMBER exists in abundance, while a DAM, capable of impounding
12,000,000 gallons of water, and now full, is included in the purchase.
£5200 HAS BEEN SPENT ON THE MINE, and for nine months a vigorous
development policy has been in progress, whilst a competent Assay Plant was installed.
THE WORK HAS RESULTED AS FOLLOWS:—
A longitudinal extent of reef 550 feet long has been systematically developed
by five (5) shafts, varying in depth to 100 feet, and has been driven upon at 50 feet
by a continuous working 130 feet in length. It has been most carefully sampled,
and results indicate _tlie existence for the whole 550 feet of an ore body, varying
in width from five (5) to ten (10) feet, and in large averages from 12dwt. to well
over 1 ounce. A general average of in the neighborhood of 17dwt. appears to be a
safe estimate.
In P.G.L, 22, a most important shaft has just been completed to 50 feet. This
working is 450 feet from the South. Peg of G.L.1., and in a crosscut at the bottom,
5 feet of solid quartz similar to that in No. 1 shaft, has been cut, and no wall yet
reached. A sample from this assayed 17dwt. per ton. This work permits of hope
being entertained of a continuous run of 1000 feet of ore, of a value of 19dwt. per ton.
Such a distance, and assuming a width of 6 feet, WOULD YIELD 50,000 TONS
OF ORE FOR EVERY 100 FEET OF SINKING and development, or sufficient to
keep a modern 40-head mill running for twenty (20) months.
Outside the limits referred to above there are surface indications of further exten-
sion of the ore body, but no work has yet been done thereon beyond some shallow
trenching.
What is now required is the expenditure of further funds upon a more extended
development scheme intended to develop such tonnages as will warrant the erection of
Reduction and Treatment Plant; and not less than £ll,OOO should be available for the
purpose.
AS TO THE JUSTIFICATION FOR SUCH EXPENDITURE, THE WRITER
HAS NO HESITATION IN SAYING THAT OF THE HUNDREDS OF
DEPOSITS INSPECTED BY HIM in New South Wales NOT ONE has offered
SUCH INDUCEMENTS in the matter of APPARENT CONTINUITY of WIDTH
and of VALUE. A preliminary development scheme has been honestly carried out, and
owners have been really anxious to ascertain true values.
As a result, there are available at the Company’s offices a very complete set of
assay plans, showing clearly amount of development work and the value and width of
the ore-body exploited.
CONDENSED REFERENCES TO MR. W. H. WESLEY’S REPORT.
The development work referred to above was carried out by Mr. Wesley, of the Mt.
Morgan G.M., and of the M’t. Lyell Mg. and Ry. Co.
The report is embodied in the Prospectus, and deals in closer detail with the various
shafts and drives.
His statement a.s to values covers the samplings of a large number of samples, very
closely taken during the carrying out of development work, and his general averages,
although somewhat higher, agree with those given above.
HE SUMMARISES AS FOLLOWS:—
My intimate knowledge of this property for five years leads me to believe that after
£ls.dbo lias been expended in opening up the mine, at least 120,000 tons of ore will be
available for the treatment works, and judging from present values, backed up by what
I predict, a plant capable of treating 4000 tons of ore per month —say 48.000 per year —
will show a profit of 12/- per share to the shareholders per annum, with three years’ ore
in sight.
The terms of two Agreements which the Company will adopt may
be inspected at Offices of the Company’s Solicitors.
APPLICATION for SHARES will be received by any Member of
the Sydney Stock Exchange, or any persons named on the Prospectus,
or by the undersigned.
VERY SATISFACTORY PRIVATE APPLICATIONS have
already been made and received, and the list will close on AUGUST 31.
11. F. HELDER. F.1.A.A., Secretary,
105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
■Mr. H. F. HELDER,
105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
I hereby enclose my cheque of £ being for Application and
Allotment of Shares in the Glark-Wesley G.M. Co. N.L., and will sign
formal application form when you forward same with my receipt.
NAME
ADDRESS


Let Cuticura Help You
Look Like This
Nothing better to care for your skin,
hairandhands. TheSoaptocleanse,
purify and beautify, the Ointment
to soften, soothe and heal. Usethem
for daily toilet.
For sample each address: “R. Towns &
Co., Sydney. N. S. W.” Sold everywhere.
HMF"'Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
Learn to Draw
r.n
There’s Money
in the
Pen.
The above
is the title
ot our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of 'this
booklet—
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN
THE harry J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
227 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
WARATAH'
FACING
lUkRI
Yields to Neither
Beast nor Weather
Waratah Fencing: Wire strains
tigrhter and has grreater strength
because it is made from finest
grade iron ore. It also costs less
than imported wires.
Get Booklet N. 19.
AUSTRAL NAIL CO. PTY. Ltd.
\ 4i / STBAV'^
310 Flinders Street,
Melbourne, VIC.
BOND’S TRIPLEWEAR HOSE.
Made in Australia.
AN IDEAL, HOSE,
combining: wonderful wear with beautiful
appearance.
fvs
BALL
BEARINGS
BIG STOCKS
NOW ON HAND.
We have quite recently landed from the Afrika, the
Danish-built motor-ship, and also from the Tasmanic,
large stocks of the Swedish type S.K.F. bearings, as
well as a considerable quantity of the English type
of S.Iv.F. Bearings by the P. & O. Boat.
b uli particulars supplied to all requiring
information relative to the use of these
world-famous Bearings in connection with
their machinery, together with details as
to methods of handling, mounting, lubrica-
tion and maintenance.
Write to the nearest address.
SKF
ells
GARDNER,
WON
& GO.,
Power & Light
Engineers.
MELBOURNE-
-384 City Road.
SYDNEY-
-225 Clarence St,
BRISBANE-
-367 Queen Street.
Showrooms—
-369 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE.
Pure wool of the finest quality
is spun ani woven by British
workpeople in Britain to make
these Jason Stockings and
Socks with the Finish that
affords sheer comfort all
through wear <s>
When you buy for Quality
—Jason
No matter how often Jason Stockings and Socks are
washed, the downy softness and perfect-fitting shape
are not a whit impaired. Think what “unshrinkability”
means for your children’s wear —and insist on
TO
Quality
Stockings and Socks
For Men, Women and Children.
Good Drapers and Stores everywhere can
supply you. See the Jason Tab.
Manufactured by :
W. TYLER SONS & CO.,
Kina Street. Leicester, England.
Thejaton
Tab
mi
m
*4m tf - ~vS#%
Just thinkin’
There’s no aid to
calm thought like
a G B D. It gives
a sweet, sooth-
ing smoke that
“drives away dull
care.”
London-made in many
popular shapes from
genuine French briar-
wood.
vdfv
THE PERFECT PIPE.
Obtainable everywhere.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Stan F.: Parable a dud, and don’t “try
verse next time”.... Industry: Parliament, as the
old tag has it, can do anything except make a
man a woman and a woman a man. But repud
tion would mean financial suicide, so your security
is safe enough.... Karl R.: You say that “the
I.W.W. prisoners were found guilty by a biased
Judge” and then boisterously demand to be accepted
as an authority on the beauties of Bolshevism in
Russia. You make us tired... .J.N.McI.: Leagues
too long. .. .Bega: All right; there was more than
one flourmill in the Bega (N.S.W.) district. It
is only of local interest, anyhow.... Level: Ditto.
....T. Young: Moves too stiffly. Oil its joints.
\ DI: Try it in one-third the space.... Tarrawingee:
Sorry, but it can’t be helped. The Abo. par. that
gets in has to beat at least eight others for a
place... .M.P.C.: Thanks; things like that are good
to hear.... 8.A.W.: First of all, show us that
article in which The B. said that “Prohibition would
be a very sane reality, and but for the wowser
crowd would have been passed years ag0.”....
Mummer: Poor. What is a “santuary” ?... . Bill
Bee: An ear that finds “top” a rhyme for “lot”
would rhyme “wheelbarrow” with “Epsom salts.”
... .L.L.G.R.: Nothing there. .. .Nidaros: No use.
.. . . W.C.L.: Not good enough. .. . W.M.: “The Wan-
derer” goes with drunken steps.... Hector: It’s very
much in vain as far as this paper is concerned....
Isaac Ota: The verse doesn’t carry it through....
Lucy H.: “Childless” has a thin, pinched-orphan
look, due to lack of sufficient rhymes and the irri-
tation of weak rhythm, superimposed on absence of
ideas... .E.M.E.: The adventures of “Puss, the
emerald eyed,” and the canary don’t rouse volcanic
emotion.... Folcus: The “conjugal mystery of laby-
rinthine eventualities” rejected Dick M.: Doesn’t
suit us. .. .F.M.C.: Yarn too slender. .. .Margaret
L.: The verse is not bad, but the theme isn’t very
fresh Adrian L.: Do you really think that a
satyr would fill a bottle with “Hippocrene” water
and drop the final e in pronouncing the name of the
spring if Keats hadn’t used his famous line?....
Ethel K.: They're a good distance off V.C. (S.A.) :
The Cold-footed Shirker Profiteer” would have
to move more briskly than that to catch even an
early worm. .. . M.M.S.: No, those bells don’t do
it R.S. (Greymouth): Not up 1.M.L.: “The
Man from Burrumdai” works a commonplace theme
heavily... .C.G.T. : Work fair; but the treatment cf
the subject is poor Ben E. D.: Verse that re-
quires an “abject apology to Longfellow” is no use
here.... Splinter: “North” hasn’t the strength to
get through Bardoe: “By the Winds” is well
enough done, but doesn’t say much.... J.P.L.: Not
nearly Veto: Your verse is so rough that we
almost expected to find wallabies in it.... Lute:
ouldn t advise you to throw up even a moderate
job on the off-chance. Especially on the lower
grades press-jobs are not chasing the available men
at present. . . .D.R.M. : The trouble about that valley
is that it is just mist and that nothing happens
to the mist G.T. (Crow’s Nest): Doesn’t even
resemble verse, and says nothing but bald common-
place PhUl W.: Very rugged Gorse: Hasn’t a
glimmer in it E.M.: “Let’s Laugh” doesn't move
us to mirth.... Oliver B.: “Back to London” is too
sad for tears:—
.... Digamma: Quite a good yarn; but why not,
at this time of day, add tremendously to its punch
by giving the names of Judge and C.P. ? Mclan:
Good; but for such things to have value
authorities must be named. Can you do that ?
.... Rom. you don t make any of your puppets
live 0.T.8.: Why not write of the little things
you know about? We want every man to talk shop.
....Cotton: (1) It has been grown successfully for
export, and under less favorable conditions than
the present. (2) No. (3) Queensland Agricultural
Department.... Builder: That contributor’s figure
was probably too high. Anyway, an official of a
N.Q. timber co. has since assured The B. that the
highest price paid for kauri this year was £1
per 100 ft. on trucks at Ravenshoe.... Crete: Noises
more musical than that are made by almost any
self-respecting mangle.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
AAV.B. (Batavia) : Thanks, but it’s raw hiAnor,
and we don’t reprint other papers’ drawings
P.C.8.: Good amateur stuff, but that boxer isn’t
booming just now E.M.S.: A mass of detail
doesn’t compensate for weak drawing... .C. 8.: Too
heavy, and why is the sailor wearing a German
infantryman’s cap? L.C.R.: Can’t stable your run-
away... .N. A.P.: Your people look as if they had
been rescued after being swallowed by a boa-con-
strictor. Strive after more animation—see if you
can give them the appearance of having been chased
by wild elephants... .F.L.H.: Not a humorous sea-
sick passenger. (P.S. —There never was a humorous
seasick passenger)... .W.S.P.: Drawing gone over
the cliff.
“Bardoc” : The nearest approach to a bom-
bardment that the Golden Mile (W.A.) ever
knew was when one of the huge hoist wheels
of the South Kalgurli flew into flinders
through the cage running away. The whirl-
ing pulley disintegrated through its own
velocity as the heavy cable flashed off the
winder drum. A stream of shattered iron-
mongery showered in a direct line with the
force of shell fragments. One was picked up
150 yards away, another tore through a
oxB rafter and out through the back of
the ehgine-room. Still another sank about
Oft. into the sand of. an adjacent dump. The
engine-driver shut off steam and faded out of
the danger line with the celerity of lightning
sliding on a banana peel, and no one was
hurt.
ol Lr the , fiver ban k they stood,
Watching the swell of a rising flood;
SJowly, but sure, only to their amaze,
All under water, barring the tops of maize.
work done, thought they had won,
J hey stood, wondered at it all •
Dim, if this don’t take the bun,
I wonder if it will ever fall ?
Rising, rising! No sign of falling'
Nothing in sight it leaves.
J ust a mass of wave a-rumbling,
It s hard for one to believe.
Of course they thought it took the bun.
After all, and everything they had done
hurt long out from London,
Thinking soon to make a fortune.
Now Dun and his little loved one
Cave up all, and in despair,
Dun felt ill and fairly done,
Going back there to London fair.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. C,0., Ltd.,
Tel.— City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
481 o! Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, SEPTEMBER 22,
VENTURA.
10,0U0 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
T H f, North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regularly to :
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Byron Bay and the beautiful Tweed River.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N.i'S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah
vail to Bvron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa. 1
ROUND TOUR FARES.—Sydney-Brisbane, via
Byron Bay: Ist, £6/16/-; 2nd, £4/16/6. Sydney-
Brisbane, via Grafton: Ist, £6/16/-; 2nd, £4/7/6.
For particulars apply:— j
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING / BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to .Time 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 796,655 10 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . .. 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors— Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
lion. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; .lames Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
II 1C AI) OH'ICE - - - BRISBANE.
Brandies —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital . . .. . . .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up . . . . . . . . £1,200,000
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . £200,000
Directors: HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C. ; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M.' B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 157 Places throughout New South Wales"
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Bankin'? business.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. TAHITI, September 16.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, October 14.
Anti every 28 days thereafter.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World —the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Palls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey aeross America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona. Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
R.M.S. TOFUA, from Wellington, September 16.
R.M.S. MARAMA, from Wellington, October 5.
And every 28 days thereafter.
Connecting Steamers from Sydney Sept. 9 and Sept. 30.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
y
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
White Star Line
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Australia to London and Liverpool via
South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISXOCEES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
MIETIADES 8,000 tons
MARATHON 8,000 tons
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ud., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Btd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., l,td., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
svdfv
Directors:
- £4,765,700
- 3,275,000
- 4,765,700
£12,806,400
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.C.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland. F.sq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
351 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
■ HEAD OFFICE
sd
JM* Australia
cvnxrpv ■
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (Newßritain) ; London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Saving's Bank Agencies at 2802 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, Nfew Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3i% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor July Ist, 1920 Governor
Shipping.
S* i ' - A .
Osaka ShosenKaisha
(O.S.K. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service Manila.
Hong Kong, Japan and the East. Tran-
shipment cargo accepted for all Eastern
ports. Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhipping at Japan.
KOSOKU MARU, early Sept.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
of Australia,
Managing Agents for Austrafasin,
40 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: City 4166, Six Lines.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide.
INTERSTATE STEAMSHIP SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE.
Huddart Parker Llm
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne .to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
Monthly Sailings thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government.
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
— » -
Inter-State Telegraphic Address: Cable Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.” “Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton % Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., l«td.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Uo. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importinq
bookseller .
RUDYARD KIPLING’S
NEW BOOK.
LETTERS OF TRAVEL (1*92-1915)
I. From Tideway to Tideway.
11. Letters to the Family.
111. Egypt of the Magicians.
Uniform Edition. 7s. 6d. net. Pocket
Edition. Limp Leather. 7s. 6d. net.
Blue Cloth. 6s. net. Dominions Edi-
tion. 6s. net.
LIFE OF
LORD KITCHENER.
By Sir GEORGE ARTHUR, Bt.,
M. 8.0. 3 Vol.s. With Portraits and
Plans. £2 12s. 6d. net.
LIFE OF
WILLIAM BOOTH,
THE FOUNDER OF THE
SALVATION ARMY.
By HAROLD BEGBIE. With Three
Photogravures and numerous other
Portraits and Illustrations. 2 Vols.
£2 2s. net.
. The Sunday Times ; “The book is full of
interest, and produces an effective portrait of
the General.... It needed all of two large
volumes to tell adequately the life-story of such
a man.
A NEW BOOK BY OWEN WISTER.
A Straight Deal, or The Ancient
Grudge. By OWEN WISTER,
Author of “The Pentecost of
Calamity,” etc. 6s. net.
The Daily Chronicle : “The writer has made
a fine attempt to bring John Bull and Brother
Jonathan together.... Mr. Wister’s arguments
have all the more force in the fact that he was
at one time opposed to any attempt to make
friends.”
TWENTY-SECOND THOUSAND.
The Economic Consequences of
the Peace. By JOHN MAYNARD
KEYNES, C.B. Bs. 6d. net.
Stabilizing the Dollar. A Plan to
Stabilize the General Price Level
without Fixing Individual Prices.
By IRVING FISHER, Professor of
Political Economy in Yale University.
18s. net.
The Accountant : “At the present time, whei
the question of the exchanges is'exercising th
minds of business men and politicians in al
parts of the world, Professor Fisher’s book i
certain to arouse interest; and deservedly so
as it deals in a lucid and comprehensive wa
with a subject upon which a good deal o'
ignorance exists.”
ROUND TABLE PUBLICATIONS.
The Round Table
A. Quat tci l,y Review of the Politics of
the British Commonwealth.
Price ss. per copy, or 20s. per annum,
post _ free to any address within the
Empire.
The Problem of the Commonwealth.
L. CURTIS. The after-war relations
between Great Britain and the
Dominions. Sewed, 2s. 6d. • cloth
4s.
The Commonwealth of Nations. The
historical basis of the foregoing. 6s.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN# CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
V
ABBEY
SHOES
Individual taste is evidenced in Abbey
Shoes. They possess the Distinctive Style
that appeals to the cultured taste, com-
bined with the Wearing Qualities sought
by those who demand long service.
We illustrate a High-grade Patent Derby
Bal in a Smart “Made-to-Order” Style.
Price 67/6
In Tan Willow Calf .... 60/-
Stoclced in Half-sizes, and Narrow,
Medium and Wide Fittings.
Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between Q.P.O. and Hunter Street
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
ProvidefttSociety
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £41,000,000
Annual Income nearly . . .. .. £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
George hotel,
■St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Used the
World Over
n
MOTOR
...CARS
The Super Fxgß Watch
The original
“Fx & R”
Watches are
known through-
o u t Austral-
asia for their
marvellous ac-
curacy and en-
durance.
But, as usual,
w e progress,
and so now we
are showing the
SUPER “Fx &
R” WATCH.
Its present
price is 84/- in
steel case, but
what a watch
it is! Every
latest improve-
ment known to
horological
science is in it.
Gent.’s O.F.
Steel “Super Fx
fully-jewelled
84/-
Oxidised
& R”
Lever,
For strength and standing up against hard
wear we unhesitatingly say that no watch the
world over equals the SUPER “Fx & R” Watch.
It is jewelled in every part where wear
occurs. It will go with profound accuracy;
indeed, it is so accurate that a ship could be
steered to England by it.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
25 8 25 Hunter Street
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
fvsdv
“A marvel at the price.”
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre. 18in.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 241 b. .
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3 ; other States, 2/2.)
26 -
fvs
‘Simple and extra strong in construction.’’
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all. 37Mn.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed rip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b
-(Postage—N.S.W., 2/-; other States, 3/8.) KJKJ I-
dfv
BIM. The Celebrated “Maine” Rifle, designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim fire.
It can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate.
Weight about 31b. Fitted with plain V-back sight 33/"*
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
sdfv
Remarkably accurate and hard hitting.
Plenty of range and power.
825. Savage Hi-Power Repeating; Ham-
merless Rifle, 22, 303 or 30/30 calibres, 6
shot, 20in. round tapered barrel, take down, weight 6ilb., muzzle velocity,
2800 ft. seconds, may be used up to 350 yards without changing from
point blank adjustments of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patched bullets (70
grains) are used, giving a striking energy of 1206 ft. pounds; carriage
paid
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
sdf
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy.”
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about silb. ..
Freight paid.
£6/17/6
SH
New Savage N.R.A. Rifle Model 1919 is a carefully-
designed instrument of precision. It lias full military
stock, oil finish, pistol grip, with bands and swivel for
sling; Marine Corps type front sight, wind gauge, aperture rear sight, fiv' shot detach-
able magazine. Barrel is 25 inches long. Chambered for .22 long rifle cartridges only.
Double-firing pin, short hammer throw. Designed primarily for target
work. Weight about 7Jlb. Freight paid
£7)10/
vsvd
“A suitable weapon for the boy.”
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.,
round barrel. 20in.. chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges. case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9 ; other States, 3/2.)
40/-
fsd
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
838. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model. 16A. 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight sJlb.
Freight paid,
£9/10/
MYRROHL
Made in
America.
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth ; hardens the gums; prevents decay ; sweetens
the breath, and is specially recommended for pyorrhoea.
Price 1/9 tube (postage 2%d. extra). Small sample, 1%d., post free.
S'
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32,-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round' Darrel
Freight paid, *
With Octagon Darrel Freight paid, •
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 38- or 44-ealibres, central fire, full or- half magazines, 20in.
round barrel, weight about sJib freight paid,
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List Post Free to any address.
£B/15/-
£9
£7/17/6
Headquarters: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


m
» V”
. I
Mil
REXONA SOAP for the Toilet and Bath.
I have been using your Rexona Soap for some time, and I think so much
of it lam writing a few lines to express my appreciation. Not only do I
find it excellent for the toilet and bath, but as a shampoo for the hair. It
is far superior to any other, for it makes the hair both soft and silky, and
seems to take away every trace of dandruff.
I have also used your Rexona; nothing could be better as a healer.
I can truly say I am a Rexona Girl, and wish the Rexona Remedies
every success.
Sincerely yours, (Sgd.) ESTELLE RAY,
Wheatland Road, Malvern.
Be Dainty, Be Pretty, Be Attractive*
Be a Rexona Girl.
Use only Rexona, the Aristocrat of Soaps.
That natural beauty of skin and liair. which cannot be imitated, can be obtained
by regular use of Rexona Skin and Facial Soap; ordinary toilet soaps do not assert
this influence. Many of them contain free alkali, which tends to dry the skin and
destroy its delicate texture. Even the best of such soaps can only cleanse; they can-
not heal and protect the skin. Rexona So&p contains the same soothing, healing,
antiseptic balsams as Rexona the Rapid Healer, the value of which in the treatment
of skin affections is known throughout the world. Simply use Rexona Skin and
Facial Soap regularly once or twice a day, and see if it does not quickly soothe
and cleanse the pores, lessen the tendency to pimples and
leave the complexion clear, fresh and velvety. Don’t forget
Rexona Soap is the Aristocrat of Soaps, unequalled for the
toilet, nursery and bath. Large and lasting tablet, price 1/-.
MISS ESTELLE RAY,
a charming Rexona Girl
(from a photo).
9
’tux*'
SKIN & FACIAL SOAP
ERNEST NEWELL
and Company Limited,
Misterton, Gainsborough,
ENGLAND .
1
1 :
;•
m
m
J, ' r
IMi
I
■
:
ROTARY KILNS.
2400 Tons of Cement per Week. Particulars and Prices Furnished on
_____ Request. _____
COMPOUND GRINDING MILL
with Sieving Apparatus for Rotary Cement, Hard Limestone and
Other Refractory Materials.
GET CATALOGUES, ETC., FROM
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN
ENGINEERING CO., LTD.,
National Mutual Buildings, corner Collins and Queen Sts., MELBOURNE.
BOX 1303 G.P.O. ’Phone, Central 4031.
N.S.W. Agents Engineering Supply Co., Kent Street, Sydney.
S.A. Agents—Parsons & Robertson, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Moths and Men.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE motlis come in from the outer
gloom,
Little and big, and brown and grey,
While I sit here in the lamp-lit room
Musing the late, lone hours away;
Over the plains in darkness gowned,
Far cattle call from a creekside camp;
Hurrying, scurrying round and round,
The moths go whirling about the lamp.
A single bird in the river-gums
Sings in the ‘darkness, sweet and low ;
No beat of feet from the homestead comes
Where dancers danced but an hour ago;
Song and passion and hope were there.
Love and laughter and young romance;
In from the hot, dark, pulseless air
Swarm the moths in their madcap dance.
The cattle call from their camp again,
Single and sweet the night-bird sings.
Slim, white women and tall, brown men,
Each uplifted on airy wings,
Each urged on by a vain desire.
Each with a goal, a golden quest-
God, will the moth-dance never tire,
Cease forever and be at rest!
The tall, white gum-trees their vigil keep,
Each like a sentinel, vague and wan ;
The dance is over, the dancers sleep.
But still the dance in their dream goes
on—-
On and on till the dawn comes, tinged
Red with roses, and shows to each
Hope with her fine, frail pinions singed,
Maimed by the flame they strove to reach.
While I sit here in the lamplit room,
Musing the late, lone hours away,
The moths come in from the outer gloom.
Little and big. and brown and grey *
Over the plains in darkness gowned,
Far cattle call from a creekside camp;
Hurrying, scurrying, round and round.
The moths go whirling about the lamp.
The man. the woman, the young, the old,
Chasing forever their hearts’ desires —
Their fate is but as a story told.
Told and told till its sameness tires;
If some Power out of the darkness came —
One that watched since the world began—
And quenched all life, as I quench this flame.
Were it better or worse for moth and man?
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Albino.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Undoubtedly it was a bad night.
The wind tore through the cocoa-
nuts with the noise of breaking
surf, and the tying-strings of the •native-
house strained so that it seemed they must
surely break. Tlife building itself trembled
and swayed, creaked and groaned, and now
and then gave a most astonishing jerk. Por-
tions of the thatch of the roof flapped irre-
gularly, admitting vagrant puffs of wind
that flickered the flame of the hurricane-
lamp held by the native standing beside the
mosquito-netted bed.
“Cap’n ! Cap’n !” The native whispered
the words as though afraid the white man
on waking would deliver a reprimand for
being disturbed. “Big wind come. Angry
wind. By-an’-bye schooner drift.”
He was an elderly native and an albino.
His skin was fair, lighter than a half-caste’s
and curiously tinged with yellow. Save
for a wisp o,f torn and dirty calico about
his middle he was naked. The yellow tint
extended to his finger-nails, to the roots of
his hair. Plis eyes were small and weak-
looking and surrounded by pink flesh. Their
expression was of blinking uncertainty. The
few. indefinite hairs about his chin were an
unhealthy white, as were his eyebrows; but
the hair of his head, teased out in usual
native fashion, was somewhat darker. And
as though the fact, of being an albino were
not sufficient handicap in life, his right leg
was twisted with a curvature of the shin
that gave grotesqueness to his gait and an
uneven slope to his shoulders.
, "All crew too much fright and come
shore,” he said, touching the white man’s
shoulder. “They say schooner drift by-an’-
nye outside altogether. ’Spose small boat,
them boy no fright to up-anchor and go sail-
about; hut schooner too much big.”
He shook the shoulder, but with great
gentleness, for it is common knowledge that
when a man sleeps his spirit goes for a walk-
about, and sufficient time must be allowed for
its return before the body wakes. When the
sleeper is sick more care than ever is neces-
sary.
And Captain Heyson was very sick. The
fever had struck him down when he had
been bound from Port Moresby to the western
end of New Guinea, in his 60-ton schooner
Wave Witch, for the purpose of recruiting
a load of Fly River natives as labor for cer-
tain plantations away to the eastward. It
was a severe attack, rendering him incap-
able of handling the vessel, and, knowing
that it would be unsafe to entrust the navi-
gation of a craft of the tonnage of the Wave
Hitch to natives, Heyson had run in close
to one of the villages of the Gulf of Papua
and anchored. It was the north-west season,
and the wand being off the land the water
was smooth and sheltered. Heyson intended
to lie at anchor for a day or two, till he
was sufficiently recovered to resume com-
mand. But he grew worse, and the crew
consulted anxiously amongst themselves as
t° what was the best thing to do.
The tiny cabin was no place for a very
sick white man, they concluded; he would
be ever so much better off’ ashore in a large,
roomy house. Much better. Besides, he
might die on board, and Avho knew but
tnat the crew might be blamed for not hav-
mg looked after him properly? The Gov-
ernment had an uncomfortable habit of ask-
rog suspicious-sounding questions whenever
a white man happened to die in one of the
far-away places.
They took him ashore. Heyson was only
partly conscious by this time, otherwise he
would have strenuously opposed the transfer.
They installed him in the house of one of
the village chiefs, and for the better part
of two days he lay in a state of fluctuation
between coma and consciousness that made
the albino, who faithfully tended him, alter-
nate between hope and fear.
On the second afternoon the weather,
which had been holding fine, turned squally,
though without change of direction. By
nightfall it was blowing hard from over the
land, and a little out from the shore the
water was flecked with foam. Further out
a heavy sea was rising, making a jumble
of broken rollers that grew as their distance
from the land increased.
About nine o’clock the schooner’s anchor
began to drag. The crew paid out all the
chain and put over a kedge. It was no
good; the ground was hard and bad hold-
ing, and the anchors gripped and snatcued
by turns. The crew became alarmed. It
was plain that the vessel would drift into
the deep water of the gulf with the wind
taking her further and further from the
shore. With the captain well and on board
there would have been little difficulty; the
captain was a white man who knew how to
handle a schooner like this, and without
doubt be would have heaved the anchors
and sailed about till the wind went down.
That was the right thing to do, the only
thing.
But without the captain ! That was an-
other matter. The Wave Witch was much
too big for natives to handle —natives accus-
tomed to small fishing craft and to navi-
gating by sight only. There were reefs
away to leeward, too.
A panic seized them. To drift to sea in
the vessel would be even worse than trying to
sail her about. And in a seaway that would
increase as they got away from the land!
At the rate the anchors were dragging it
was plain she would soon be in the deep
water. In the circumstances it was worse
than foolish to stay on board. They made
a hasty collection of their personal belong-
ings, gathered up various articles that they
thought the captain valued—papers, the sex-
tant, a clock, cases of charts and such-like —
stepped into the dinghies and pulled ashore.
The albino had protested, pointing out
that the captain would be angry with them
for deserting the vessel. But no one took
any notice of him ; he was merely the ship’s
cook and a deformed albino. People had
a habit of taking no serious notice of him.
His pale skin and pink-rimmed eyes had
made of him nothing more than an object
for derision many a year past. His twisted
leg and the ungainly gait it caused was imi-
tated by the young men of the villages who
wished to appear clever. It had not always
been thus; in his young days occasional
freaks, such as albinos, were respected and
sometimes reverenced. A supernatural sig-
nificance was attached to the unusual, and
the Old Men spoke of oddities as evidences
of powers greater than those of mere man.
But that was in the days before the coming
of the white man and the introduction of
new standards and codes.
His one friend was Captain Heyson. The
captain had been consistently kind to him
ever since the day the Wave Witch had pur
into his village seeking a crew, and Heyson,
pitying the albino’s lot, with an understand-
ing born of long experience of natives, had
signed him on as cook. The albino fully
appreciated the kindness that had made him
the one selected for a position much sought
after; and in the years that followed he
gave faithful service and a great affection
to the man who had befriended him.
And now this good white man lay sick
and helpless, and his schooner was drifting
to certain destruction. Just as he was be-
ginning to recover, too. To-morrow the
captain would be a lot stronger, able to get
up, perhaps; even now his sleep was natural
and unlike the coma that seemed so like
death. The albino frowned angrily as he
looked down on the wan, yellowed face on
the bed. What frightened fools those crew-
boys were! Surely they might have tried
something! Running away like a lot of
scared women !
Presently he moved away and squatted in
the centre of the floor, crossing his legs
beneath him and folding his hands in his
lap. As far as he could see, there was no-
thing that one man could do, and he began
to croon despairingly. The schooner would
be lost, and the captain would be very angry
when he got better. The albino shivered
at the thought of what the white man would
say. Captain Heyson was a good man and
a kind one, but he could be very angry at
times. The albino had seen him in wrath.
He would not like to be the object of his
anger.
The wind was increasing in violence now.
Once the twisted-off jyrown of a cocoanut-
palm struck the roof heavily as it tore sea-
ward, and once the whole of the windward
wall of the house bulged in dangerously.
•The albino wondered that the house stood
the strain. It was a mere thing of round
timber and thatch, held together by pieces
of native twine. It shook and swayed, but
that was all. His mind went a step further.
The schooner was a strong thing of heavy
woods and metal . bolts, but, unlilke the
house, it gave way before the wind. This
was curious.
Suddenly he rose to his feet, his hands
nervously fastening the loin-cloth in a
tighter grip. Why had he not thought of it
before? The house rested on solid ground
and did not give before the wind. Whereas
the schooner
If it was not too late he might save her
yet. Every detail of the vessel flashed to
his mind. He remembered she was in bal-
last and that the tool-locker was in the cap-
tain’s cabin. Those were two great things.
He turned down the lamp and crept out on
to the verandah and down the crazy ladder
that led to the ground. There was no moon
and the sky was a mass of wind-clouds that
hung so low as to seem to almost press on
the earth. Keeping a lookout for falling
cocoanuts, the albino went to the beach and
found one of the schooner’s dinghies. He
launched it. stepped in and seized the
paddles. With that howling wind directly
behind him it was an easy matter to null
out in the direction of the schooner. The
(Continued on next page.)


SKILLED TESTIMONY.
SM
mm
HI
Nurse
Somerville.
NURSE HANNAH,
residing at Terrace Street,
Paddington, Brisbane,
writes: “Being a nurse, I
am well acquainted with
the healing powers of
Zam-Buk. I have used it
on my hands when they
were chapped, and sore,
with deep fissures, and
found it wonderfully
soothing and softening,
and healed them in a very
short space of time. I
have also used Zam-Buk
in my practice, and in
many cases it has proved
a great boon, safeguard-
ing against any complica-
tions in the w r ay of blood
poison.”
Zam-Buk is invaluable for
Burns, Scalds, Eczema, Pimples,
Running Sores, Barber’s Rash,
Face Sores, Sore Lips, Chapped
Hands, etc. Zam-Buk is also
invaluable for Blackheads,
Pimples and Eruptions, and is
obtainable from Chemists at
1/6 pot, 3/6 family size, or
post free from C. E. Fulford
(Aus.), Ltd., 39 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Professional Nurse’s Powerful Praise
for Zam-Buk’s Perfect Healing.
Nurse Somerville, of 38 Wattle Street, Bendigo, is yet another
of the many skilled and qualified nurses who speak in praise of
Zam-Buk. The Nurse has followed her profession for many
years, and her experience with Zam-Buk in this connection is a
tribute to the high standard of efficiency of this great healing
balm.
NURSE SOMERVILLE
says: “For general use I have found Zam-Buk
unsurpassed, and for the grandchildren when
falling and hurting themselves. One of these little ones, Gladys, had a cut on her
hand which festered, and it was very sore for some time. She came to me for treat-
ment, and I dressed her hand, and the treatment with Zam-Buk soon took all the
inflammation away and healed the hand. For years I have been a nurse, and have
had much experience with the use of Zam-Buk, and in all cases I have found it splen-
did. For Piles I have experienced great relief, its soothing action allaying all
irritation, and removing the congestion, giving great ease. My numerous patients
have found it very beneficial, and it is generally used in their homes.”
J
SOOTHES & HEALS.
No home is
complete or fully-
equipped without
its pot of Zam-
Buk. Refuse in-
ferior ointments
and wo u 1 d-be
substitutes. ASIv
FOR and INSIST
ON ZAM-BUK.
albino used the paddles more for steering
than for rowing. His great fear was that
in the darkness. he might miss the vessel
and go beyond her, in which case he would
not be able to get back ; he could not hope
to pull against a wind of that .strength. But
he had a sense of direction, and presently,
looking over his shoulder, he saw the hull
of the Wave Witch looming down on him.
A few seconds later he had made the dinghy
fast and was on board.
The first operation in the plan he had
formed was to ascertain the depth of the
water. In the darkness it was impossible
to tell how far the vessel might have drifted.
Perhaps she was already in the deep water.
If that were so his plan was useless and he
would drift out to sea with her.
He found the lead-line in its accustomed
place in. the main shrouds, and cast it. The
wind made of the line a tremendous semi-
circle before the weight struck the water,
and the albino’s heart almost stopped as he
felt the fathom-marks slip one after another
through his fingers. Using all his strength,
he hauled the line as near taut as he could
and then pulled it up.
There were three fathoms. It was all right;
the schooner had not drifted very far, or else
the bottom was fairly level for some distance
out. She was going out fast enough, though ;
and there was an impatient note in the
angry snatching of the chains over the fair-
leads.
He crept along the deck and down into
the cabin. Feeling carefully, he found a hur-
ricane-lamp, and from the mass of his hair
he took some wax matches. He lit the lamp
and began a search of the tool-locker that
formed the under-part of one of the bunks.
He stood up again with a large auger in his
hand. Then he crawled through a door in
the bulkhead that led into the hold.
A sudden fear came to him as he made
his way over the stones that formed the bal-
last. The planking of a ship’s side was
thick and tough; might it not be that he
could not bore the holes in time? Sup-
pose that before he was finished she had
drifted into 10 fathoms, 20 perhaps! There
would be no hope of raising her from such
depth; even the tops of her masts would be
covered by the water. If she was to rest
on the bottom at all. it must be in the shal-
low water. She could be raised again there.
Without stopping to think which was the
best place to begin, he scrambled to the
nearest part of the side, and, placing the
point of the auger between two of the great
ribs, began to bore. For what seemed an
interminable time he turned and turned and
turned. The side of a ship was a very thick
thing indeed.
Then suddenly the auger slipped forward,
and a bore of water three inches in diameter
almost knocked the kneeling man over. He
picked himself up. and. clinging to the auger,
began another bple a little further along.
On deck the wind was still roaring its
nocturne of fury, the chains still snapping
impatiently, viciously. But the man with
the twisted leg and pale skin heard them
only as incentives to faster effort. He
toiled on and on, boring hole after hole,
working without pause, his only concern to
fink the vessel before she drifted into the
deep water. Once it occurred to him that
the water would make a dreadful mess of
everything on board. The rice, flour, sugar
and other store items would be ruined. The
stock of trade tobacco would be spoilt. This
would make the captain angry, perhaps. For
a moment the albino stopped and looked at
the streams of water spouting into the half-
darkness. The water was rising rapidly;
it was nearly up to his knees. It was too
late to turn back now. The captain might
be angry at having to refloat his ship and
at losing his stores. The albino had not
thought of that; all he had bsen concerned
about was the saving of the vessel. He
turned to the wall of timber before him and
began boring again.
* * * *
For some time Captain Heyson had been
conscious that someone was calling him.
The fever was gone from him now and he
was awaking from a quiet sleep. He opened
his eyes and struggled to a sitting position.
“You come look, Cap’ll!” a village native
was saying excitedly. “We help you.” He
beckoned to some natives standing- in the
doorway.
Without giving the captain a chance to
reply, they lifted him- up and carried him
out on to the tiny platform that headed the
steps. The first light of the new day was
tinging the eastern sky a dainty pink and
turning the surface of the sea from purple
to shining velvet. The wind of the night
was gone, and the inshore sea was smooth
as glass. The tops of the cocoanuts and the
roofs of the village houses were shining wet
with the rain that had followed the wind.
A number of natives were crowded about
the high-water mark, all talking excitedly.
Some were pointing, and Heyson's eyes
wonderingly followed the direction of their
fingers.
Half a mile from the shore a man with
a pale skin was clinging to one of a pair
of masts that sloped up out of the water
for a height of several feet. His legs were
twisted round the rigging. A canoe was
drawing alongside, the paddlers evidently
talking to him. Presently the man de-
scended into the canoe and one of the pad-
dlers shouted a couple of sentences across
the water.
“He been make hole in schooner so that
he stop longa bottom and no drift outside.”
one ofc the natives about Heyson translated,
and then went on with a full account of
the coming of the wind, the dragging of the
anchors and the desertion of the crew. Hey-
son, the febrifuges he had taken playing-
tunes in his head, listened wonderingly,
striving to get perspective.
The canoe had reached the beach before
lie fully understood. The albino stepped out
stiffly, glanced up at the house, and, seeing
the captain, stood still. Then he uttered an
exclamation, turned and made up at the
beach at an ungainly run, his distorted leg
throwing out sideways.
“He fright,” came from the beach. “He
think captain angry an’ he run ’way.”
Heyson, his mind already working out
the details of salving the schooner—towing
her inshore at high water, plugging the holes
and floating her off on the next tide—-
watched the pitiful figure struggling up the
beach in silence. Presently he turned to
the natives beside him.
“Bring him back,” he said softly. “You
can easily catch him. I want to thank him.”
JACK McLARREN.
Rusty.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mrs. McMurdo, this is the second
I time this week you’ve been ’ere askin’
fer yer bed fer nothin’. I can't do
it. A bed is a bed, an’ I’m ’ere to rent ’em,
not give ’em away. Why, I dunno ’ow
many times you’ve slep’ in that bed an’ not
a penny ’ave I got”
Mrs. Tripp paused and Mrs. McMurdo
took the opportunity of going—of closing
carefully the gate of the Forbes-street house
which had been an occasional refuge in
despair.
She faded down the dirty street, over the
x’oad and up the Domain rise. The after-
noon had made the shadows long and grey
on the grass, and long and black on the
red dust. The flame-tree at the Botanic
Garden corner leaned- over the toiling drab
figure, making an unfelt warmth for her.
She looked in from the g teway to the
smooth lawns where the colors and per-
fumes pile, heavy and sweet, for the care-
less women and children. No unfit, no
tramps in there —too bright and gay; the
submerged choose the dusty parks, the Do-
main, any place where ornament is at a
discount, as it is in their hearts. Once the
Garden was a good resting-place, before this
lowest ebb was reached; but not now. Still,
she smiled, there is always something with
friendship in its spirit—some little some-
thing. Beside the long railings around the
flowers and the murmuring doves, up into
Macquarie-street, opulent and beautiful, and
down the slope into Macquarie-place—here
Mrs. McMurdo’s friendly spirit was. As
she came in by the Bridge-street gate he
slipped from the shadow under a dusty fig-
tree and sidled up to her, yellow and gaunt
—an unwanted, unfit, dosser cat.
The cat and the woman had no friends;
all the tides had gone past them, and all the
voices had ceased. Mrs. McMurdo’s slate-
grey eyes looked day after day into the same
day, empty as the morrow and the yester-
day. The cat heard the few words of re-
gret and explanation.
“All this was a long time ago, Rusty,
when you were a kitten. In Queensland.
That was where the boys came and played
with you (it was you, wasn’t it, Rusty?)
the two tall boys in Brisbane, and Pat who
cursed his father and rode away. I wonder
where Pat would be, Rusty, and he the
bright-eyed heart of me. Eyes like mine
he had, like his mother’s, that he rode away
from 10 years ago.”
The cat yawned sympathetically, and
purred in a loud bass voice, singing synco-
pated metallic notes.
“Sometimes I can’t believe it: the place
gone and the stock taken; Dick and Robin
in business in Brisbane, and me starving
in Sydney.”
A gleam of anger shone for a moment in
the old woman’s eyes—shone only for a
moment till the despair came back.
“Twice I wrote to Dick and twice to
Robin. They have ‘calls nearer home
the high cost of living’ ”
The cat felt the hand shake, an unhappy
hand, kind and unhappy.
“ ‘Calls nearer home’—nearer home.
Rusty,” the tired voice whispered, “and £2
in one letter and £1 in the other, and a.word
in each to say that there was a home there
for me when things got too bad here. And
their wives to keep me in my place—o
Rusty, Rusty!”
This was bad. Rusty’s life ivas a hard
one, and not much touched him now, but
this was very bad. From the dark years at the
end this soothing hand and voice had come,
making a haven. And now the voice was
tragic and the hand spasmodic and wet. The
shadows coming quickly in the echoing
street hold nothing new or fearful for the
cat, but this note of bitter anger and sorrow
covered all the qualities of fear.
“If I knew where Pat was —if I only
knew ! Ten years ago he smiled at me and
kissed me and is gone forever. And no
word coming back to me the long, long
time. He'd see that no harm came to me
and that I didn’t go hungry.”
She gulped as she gathered the yellow cat
in her arms, crooning over him softly in the
gathering darkness.
“It’s the word I can’t stand, I think,
more than the hunger itself —it’s the word
that breaks my heart, and it old and worn-
out.”
The cat purred triumphantly from the
sheltering arms; here was haven from all
feart
“Nothing in the days and nights, Rusty,
nothing at all at all! God bless us both.”
Night came, and the warm, sub-tropic
breeze. Here and there the lit windows
jumped out of the black, as the echoing foot-
steps grew less and less, and ceased. The
cat yawned and slept, deep in his corner of
the quiet world, his friend nodding over him
until she, too, slept, Night going by over-
head.
Day came, and the fresh wind that cleans
his path. Presently the footsteps started
hurrying by again with no echoes on their
heels. Some jungle-sense waked the cat,
who slipped softly from his friend’s lap,
stretching and arching his yellow back before
a man in khaki, a man on crutches and with
unusual slate-blue eyes. ITe stopped, and
the cat sat down, purring and striving with
his silence. The man glanced at the bench
the cat had left, and looked hard at the
stirring figure—took two long strides with
his three legs, and stood over the old woman
waking to the empty day.
FEANCIS BRIEN.


, ii : m
■ \i ■ * i
? WWM •‘■W •^ggHMß
>M r JfMi' - I
- w ■■; - v 'r ■■ \!- : , "1
.
iMr.
; Sf ■ £*3 K ? ' './ mBK-.-
/ A i *
T % ;
k^-W? ; «
; ir-'.p
1 .... i—— ,iii|
'#• . I a fis| sl^l
-■ . .-■- .rjr-. ov- I
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—Bo Queen Street, Melbourne.
GONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
HO R LICKS
MALTED MILK
is a pure rich milk combined
with the extract of malted gram
—very digestible and nutritious.
Prepared'in a moment. Delicious
to the taste.
."ample will be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps
to Hutchinson & Co., Ltd.,
26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
IK
*^3
/J
*Ksk forHorfi^cT^
o Shortage. Ample Supplies.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wh Scpflt—
JAMi AH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleeper*,
Paving Blocks, B u i 1 d er ■’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS' HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
881 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
WRHSLEYS
ck
7
'W
wm
V-
-2
A
(want some tool
Everybody
should fry this
NEW flavour
It is refreshing, sweet.
A friend to young and old.
d.
per
packet
SEALED TIGHT KEPT RIGHT
SB
Send 3d. for a trial
Packet to
WRIGLEVS
Box 2376. G. P. 0..
Sydney.
The
Flavour Lasts
TuvO'J*
6V)f)
pe®So
itt
A-24.
aaiqnohj]
pq‘ojjvrv ojiDa jctuu no
PS
2a
g.
Ikecham's fills
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we st;ue
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
The Standard Remedy which ha* outlived the Centurfe*.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 15«6. CURES Write for Boole
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton’s"—refuse all substitutes.
GOOD LOOKS
A good clear complexion has much to do with
success in life, especially for women - and for
men too. It appeals and fascinates
more than features. You can
always have “good looks”
if you take Carter’*
Little Liver Pill*, for
the real source of a
healthy and spotless
face is an active
Liver. They cure
Biliousness, Con-
stipation, Sallow
Skin, Pimples and
fsd
CARTER'S
TITLE
IVER
PILLS
Blackheads. In fact they make you better
looking. Safe for children.
Small Pill —Small Oesa—Small Prloa.
GENUINE must
bear signature
fs
If any iliustrati..! appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
tjpo
: '•
Remington,
Shot Gun Cartridges
■OEMINGTON UMC cartridges
XV give maximum results in all
standard makes of shotguns. Their unfail-
ing accuracy, uniformity and evenness of
pattern are a guarantee of good sport.
I
I . tor Shooting Righil
df
Marketed under four tradenames: NITRO CLUB—ARROW NEW
REMINGTON and in all gauges Including 410 and 14 mm.—
black andsmokelesspowders.
Catalogue* free upon request.
sdf
C-6
remington arms umc company
D. D. Bryant. Australian Representative Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne


LEATHER I
LTI
GET MAXIMUM VALUE
FOR EVERY REVOLUTION.
Apply the old maxim, “Waste not, want not,”
to all your power-plant problems, and don’t
buy po'or-quality belting because the initial
cost is less. Poor belting means general dis-
satisfaction and the ultimate failure of your
plant. Instal MANGROVITE LEATHER OR
RAW-HIDE BELTING. Its high quality
gives it splendid transmission qualities and a
capacity for hard work that renders it
genuinely economical.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Lutiowici, Managing Director),
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney
THE SAWS for BIG WORK
By “big work” is meant long, hard jobs. Cutting all kinds of
woods under the most severe conditions.
“An Eagle on a Globe” Circular Saws
have proved their worth. They cut quickly, cleanly and economi-
cally, holding their cutting edges longer than other saws.
Made from Double Extra Crucible Steel—standard gauges and holes
—in 15 styles of teeth. Sizes from 4in. diameter.
Prices promptly supplied on request to Desk “A.”
THE EAGLE S GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent St., SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe St., Melbourne.
46 Boulder Rd., Kalgroorlie
Cliff St., Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews,
Brisbane
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Paul & Gray Ltd., Newcastle.
w£.E on k
£ VA
We are Sole Agents for “Flbrollte
Australian-made Genuine Asbestos -Cement
Sheets and Slates, “Fibro-C” Cold Water
Paint, and suppliers of the following' bundl-
ing materials. We can consequently quote
you at the best-obtainable prices.
“FIBERLIC" Building Board.
“CREOWOOD” Stains.
“REXLLITE” British-made Roll Roofing
and Dampcourse.
“CERTAINTEED” Roll Roofing.
REINFORCED Cement Tubs.
REINFORCING Bars for Concrete, gtc.
Write for Priqe List and Particulars.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 lines).
SSI-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
30 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at w«rk to-day, giving the same service as whhn first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only t* accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street.
9
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
“SPHINX/* a &
shown, in Metric,
4/9 each.
3-point MICA,
5/9 each.
Special for Fords
or Overlands,
4/6 each.
LIKE THE IMMORTAL SPHINX
; the effect of time has but little, influence on
THE SPHINX SPARKING PLUG.
“The longer they go the better they are.’’
HEAT, COMPRESSION. OIE, CARBON
seem to have but little effect on this Marvellous British Production.
The whole secret of the Sphinx Success is Correctness of Design and extreme quality of its component parts. Freak-
ishness is left severely alone.
We stock SPHINX Plugs for all Engines, and we thoroughly recommend them to your Service, as we feel sure that if
you affix Sphinx you’ll fix ignition troubles.
other plugs stocked— Lodge, Rajah, Hobson, Oleo, Champion, Mosler, A.C., Twin Fire.
Beautifully illustrated Catalogue and Price List Free on request.
HAS* C
‘SPIUNX,” a •
shown, in Metric,
I X 18,
4/9 each.
SPEED MODEL,
Metric,
5/9 each.
SWANS LIMITED
;
»
The House for Motor
Engineers' Supplies,
304 Pitt Street, Sydney
f
L.A. Rowboat. Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2J4 inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £27/10/-
Correspondence invited.
D. § W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
High Pressure Brasswork.
Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works Standard.
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board Standard.
Brisbane Water Board Standard.
' Adelaide Standard.
Contracts for above lines—at current rates.
MEDIUM H.P. BRASSWORK
Factory Tested
Guaranteed.
PUMPS.
ill, Well, Bore, Power,
etc., etc., and all accessoi
Cream,
‘ies.
■
mvz
n« , •
, Victoria
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
AGENTS-
ELDEII, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Perth
DELGO-LIGHT
A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
TSU.
Ri
IMS
Kerosene
Safe.
Reliable
One Gallon of Kerosene
~ '»—-
will light 32 Lamps for 4% hours.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM SOLI*: AGENTS—
N.S.W. & Victoria; WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD.,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street,
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
Melboi
sd
the
iner an
HORSE-POWER HOISTING WHIMS
There are many advantages that commend these Hoisting Whims to the miner or prospector
needing a compact, reliable winding plant, among which are simple construction, ease of transport
and comparative cheapness. Hundreds of these plants, are and have been in use on the goldfields
throughout Australia, where they are prime favorites, owing to their safe character and full working
capacity.
The total shipping weight is 12001 b., while no one part weighs more than 2501 b. Drum carries
from 500 feet upwards of %in. steel-wire rope, and will raise a bucket filled from 500-7001 b., 60 to
70 feet a minute.
The man at the shaft has perfect control of the drum—can throw it in or out of gear, and land
or lower the bucket as safely and easily as with a steam-power plant. An interesting descripive leaflet
tells you all about the Horse-pow er Hasting Whim. Write for it to-day. Price and Delivery are right.
PARKE © LACY CO. LTD..
Engineers & Machinery Merchants, 60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
