

S' —The Spirit of Age and Wisdom
R. 6. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent: Street:, SycXney,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY
TERMS
. II,:«
\n
ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION. <
NSWMONT de PIETE
D t> I C9T LIMITED.
74 Castlereagh St.74.Sydney
CAPITAL £.200,000 * Phone City £>
<st- 29 King St.. Newcastle, NS W - 71517 swansto«st Mei^.Vic
40 Adelaide St.Brisbane.Q. I 97 A Castlereagh 5tJ59 George St. West, Sydney.
Joseph W Milt. General Manager*.
u
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
For unfavorable climatic and working
conditions we recommend
if
CHROMOL
»»
(Chrome Tan Feather),
The Super Driving Belt.
It gives longer and more efficient service.
J.C.LudowiciSSonLtd,
Tanners & Feather Belting Makers,
Pioneer Works,
117 York Street, Sydney
THE BEST !
u
n
&
;
n
n
•m.
m
a
c.,
Imeatmle
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
L
Bn=m=*B
#*r INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded ISO First-Class Prize Medals.
The ready-mixed paint that prevents rust.
The value of Pabco Paint lies in its ability to check corrosion and for its fine
appearance and permanency. Ideal for the preservation of galvanised iron
and all metal and wood surfaces exposed to the weather.
Pabco Paint is quite impervious to moisture and resists the sun’s action in all
climates. It is most economical in use. Send for full particulars, post free.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
A new anti revised edition of the
“Referee” is now available,
and will be sent post free on
application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED
8 Spring Street, ' SYDNEY.
$Yv^ s
the recognised standard
of quality throughout
the Commonwealth
J.D.K.Z. GIN
(The Square Bottle with
the Heart-shaped Label.)
KEIGWIN 00. Co., Ltd., SYDNEY.
Perfect Ease and
Safety on Every Lift.
"VT OTE the triple gears. You can raise a heavy load
i-v with very little effort with a Herbert Morris Block.
Each gear is machine-cut from the solid. They’ll stand
for a lifetime on the heaviest work.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY), LTD., 115 Clarence St., Sydney.
£v£
Herbert Morris Triple-
Geared Pulley Block.
SOLID construction throughout is the paramount
feature of this All-British Block. Plates are of
toughest steel, chain hand made from trebly-refined iron.
Ask us prices and particulars of Morris lifting equipment
for every purpose.
(MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD., 499-501 Bourke St,
Melbourne; and Darling Buildings, Adelaide. Sell-
ing Agent: Chas.-E. Bernays, Adelaide St., Brisbane.
8.848
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay.
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2122.
Thursday, October 14, 1920.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by. Post as a Newspaper,


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1920 is now ready, and will be posted
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 42S
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.— Advt.
When yon go into the
"Backs'’
Ideal 1
POUDL
Don’t forget to take with you a
Waterman’s Ideal. Notes, letters,
figures whatever you want to
write—you have a pen that is
always handyand always reliable.
And it’s good for life-long use.
Three Types: •• Self-Filling.” "Safety.”
and “Regular.”
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. SLOAN, Ltd.,
the jpfen doriter
London, England
Australia •/ Harold D. Dixon,
105. Clarence Street, Sydney,
k
T O': '
k~<t gsw
'^rM^
W
?
&*' ;* 2E
V.w
Talc
Powder
For all the
members of
the family—
for every use
—in the Nursery—after the
Bath or the Shave —at the
dressing table, after exercise
or exposure use Williams
Talc Powder,
The can is large—the powder
fine, smooth, delicately frag-
rant and soothing. Most
chemists and drapers stock
Williams’ Talc. Powder.
If unable to secure locally send
8i in stamps to Williams, Box
98, G.P.0., Sydney, for full
sized tin
Post Free!
W. 23
Williams’
Talc Powder
VIPL.ET
j-fe
NET. YVT Cr oz
ffluu
M bH-'fij
«iu l
t&m
mi hi,
Uui»i
U'lMummW
z
Baby should grow
in weight daily.
The weekly progress should
be easily measured. A stand-
still in weight is usually the
first sign of unsuitable food.
If it is thought that the
breast milk is not sufficiently
nourishing (mothers feel the
strain of nursing at such
times) feed partially on
Benger’s Food.
so easily supplements the
child’s natural food that it is
usually the one Food Dootors
recommend for partial feed-
ing. For the same reason
Infants hand-reared of
necessity thrive on Benger s.
NOTE. —Benger’s is always pre-
pared with fresh new milk (or
milk and water) which it modifies
exactly for infants, and greatly
enriches for growing children.
Benger’s 64 page illustrated book, most
helpful to mothers, post free, from:
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., 117, Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor* end Manufacturers:
BENOER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER. England
A. 9
Chemist*,
two sizes.
0
SEASICK
Testified by Royalty. Nobility, Army, Navy, and
C. 15 Airmen all over the world
All Travelling should
Guard against
►
SEA SICKNESS
Mothersill’s Seasick Remedy
is invaluable. It positively
prevents and cures Sea, Air
and Train Sickness.
NO BAD AFTER EFFECTS.
GUARANTEED OR MONEY REFUNDED.
MOTH E RSI LL REMEDY CO. LTD.,
Aberdeen House, 204 Clarence St., Sydney
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
For COUGHS ! COLDS ! INFLUENZA !
and tHe PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION!
HARMFUL THROAT TABLETS.
Throat Tablets and Lozenges containing Formalm
(Formaldehyde) are harmful. Wiley, ot the Lmted
States, investigated the effects ol small d°s,es of
Formalin (Formaldehyde) given with milk; on it
men during 15 da vs. Burning in the throat, itching
rash and loss of body weight were observed.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
contain no Formalin, Cocaine or other harmful o£
poisonous drug. g
Sold everywhere, Jins 1/6; or forward 1/6 in i stamp*
to the Mannfacti rers, Hudsons Eumenthol Chemical
Co., Ltd., Sydney,* 1
The Red Page
Two Australian Singers
Retrospect , by Martin Boyd (H. H..
Champion, Melbourne). There is a great
deal of the real stuff of poetry in this little
volume. Martin Boyd has something to say,
a good feeling for words and their music, a
lot of skill in the presentation of a picture,
and over and above all this the indefinable
thing we sometimes describe as quality. A
great deal of the matter in the book is
soldier verse; but it is not verse for soldiers
in any broad sense. There are no long loping
lines with stirring movement and hard-
worked, commonplace phrases; no rollicking
chorus breaks the even movement of the well-
wrought lines. Boyd does not generally make
a sonnet of the best form ; but most of his
verse is in a shape that gives the sonnet
effect, though it misses some of the sonnet
charm by using four rhymes to the octave.
The note of quiet but bitter satire is pretty
constant; and very many of the lines are
memorable. Here are a few: —
And the day dribbling out in a dirty cloud.
Gods mock the memory in my hungry eyes.
To feel new strength and cleanness as when we
Swim a clear river in the morning sun.
And now we walk on asphalt paths again
Down the politely mad suburban street.
There are hundreds of lines equally worth
quoting; but take this example of Boyd’s
satire:
Sir Launcelot swift from slaughtering the foe,
Strode the high hall, and reached King Arthur’s
throne.
There, hot with battle, paused and knelt alone.
And spake: “Sire, where the grass is trampled flow
Rivers of hostile blood; and all your men
Have nobly fought and bled ; and some have died.
The rest return to serve you.” Silent then
And kneeling he remained. .The king replied:
“Sir, we are grateful for this knightly deed
And surely shall you have a royal meed.
There is a prosperous merchant in this town
Who asked if I a clerk could recommend
To count his gold, so you I gladly send.
Quite a good job. I hope you’ll settle down.”
This, entitled “Mars,” is in a different mood :
Stillness there is and Light. The garden grows
Beyond the windows to a radiant sea,
Strangely at peace. Quiet from Eternity
These figures kneel. Wind through the morning
rose,
Or distant quivering of transfigured dead,
Thin music rises, swells and trembles there
Round the white Host. Dim angels in the air
Gleam tremulously o’er the old priest’s head.
And are you here, once ordinary earth,
Who loved to ride and swim, and things of clay ?
O laughing spirit, is your company
With Him, Who never sought exuberant mirth,
Whose lot was thorns and sorrow, Who one day
Rode on an ass, with palms from Bethany ?
Martin Boyd’s work is well worth while.
Though the touch is seldom masterly, and
though an occasional roughness of workman-
ship may make the sense a little obscure,
there is a big promise in this book. The
author has both force and- feeling; and
where these are strongly in evidence the
other things should fall readily into their
places.
Poems, by Frederick T. Macartney
(Endacott, Melbourne). The longest con-
nected poem In this book is a sequence of
thirty-five sonnets called “Earthen Vessels.”
The rest of the volume is divided into sec-
tions : “The Body of Dew,” “Commercium”
and “Chants of Broken Times.” There is
great variety in the music, some good
thought and for the most part excellent
craftsmanship; but the reader misses some-
thing of the genuine fire that might be ex-
pected to accompany these things. Not that
the volume lacks poetry. There is much that
rises to real distinction and holds some of
the true magic; but the flights are never
sustained and the magic does not persist.
Take some examples of Macartney’s work.
This is called “Celtic”:
On your lips, lurking laughter;
On your eyelashes tears
That shine as when, after
The morning haze clears,
There are light
Little bright
Little glimmering drops
On the green tussock tops.
In the tune of your singing,
A far-away tone—
Like ,a bird, tired of winging
Its flight all alone,
Warbling faint
Little quaint
Little sad-throated trills
To its mate in the hills.
And here is No. 35 of the sonnet sequence:
Expedients lack virtue till they rise
Above hypocrisy and as thev are
Proclaim themselves, with ‘no sly door aiar
For subterfuge. While we avert our eyes
From life s inevitable compromise
Of dream and fact, these can but meet to mar
wsli conc ° rds hke this hour of dusk and star
When each the other’s grace intensifies.
motherly shadow of the night
Upon the tossing world—and high we fling
Resistance as at some black dragon-wing
Rleeding from star-wounds our reward of light.
Such vigor urges infant hands that smite
cling strength the breast to which they
is “ A rondel ” from the section
caned Commercium”:
That life may bring content
And everything be Well,
Each man a mind is lent
With which to buy and sell.
Low forms that live in shell
rvu * "either wage nor rent
mat life may bring content
And everything be well.
The tale of man’s assent
We do not rightly tell,
For he is only meant
Big balances to swell
That life may bring content
And everything be well.
Macartney may be a fine singer in the making
or a fair singer at a finish; the book is
capable of either interpretation.
Dixon Scott
‘I wish that some greatly-gifted youth now
aged about 17 would make up his mind
to be a literary critic and nothing else.”
The omniscient’ Arnold Bennett forgot for
the moment, when he wrote that sentence
m 1910, that the greatly-gifted youth with
literary ambitions is always with us. Cer-
tainly Dixon Scott was no longer a youth in
1910; but, then, he was only 30. Greatly
gifted he undoubtedly was. Perhaps the
mere fact that his posthumous “Men of Let-
ters” contains a deeply appreciative intro-
duction by the eclectic Max Beerbohm should
sufficiently emphasise that. To be praised
by Max Beerbohm is a happy enough fate
for any writer, whether living or dead.
And. unfortunately for us, Dixon Scott is
dead. He died aboard a hospital ship at
Gallipoli in October, 1915. A poet more or
less we could have spared perhaps. But
here was a critic as gay and vital and
gifted as any of them, with a ei*aftsman’s joy
in the concrete fixities of form and a poet’s
sensuous delight in the feel of language.
He was the very man to invest those
despised fixed forms which are the bones of
literature with the .glowing charm and attrac-
tion of life itself.
More than one writer has described Scott’s
critical method in that saying of Wilde’s
(cribbed, I understand, from Voltaire),
“Life seen by lightning flashes.” The appli-
cation of that phrase is peculiarly ' happy
and perhaps inevitable here; for Scott wrote
scintillating sentences as naturally as most
men write dull ones; playing, around his
subject in thick-thronging metaphorical
coruscations or streaking past in illuminat-
ing glissades of paradox, until you are
enabled, despite the difficulties of the path
he has chosen for you, to find a sure and
certain footing through the tangled under-
wood. Now, whatever the method, that I
take to be the function of criticism: to light
the way. Not necessarily to give you a lift
to the very door —for, after all, there are
times when a man likes to use his own legs.
For the matter of that, Scott will some-
times deliberately direct you to such an
outlandish place as “The Meekness of Hud-
yard Kipling.” And then, after having taken
you along this path, he will suddenly leave
you to grope the rest of the way by the light
of your own glimmering wits. But you will
have had good company so far.
I for one would not question Scott’s title
to the superlatives that have been lavished
upon him since his critical essays were col-
lected and published in 1916. “As good as
Dixon Scott,” is quoted from a review in
a recent advertisement. Thus the living
writer is puffed by the publisher and the
dead one applauded by posterity. Never, cer-
tainly, in our time has the high horse of
criticism been so neatly handled. Scott
rides always at full career, his lariat spin-
ning on its exploring circuit above his head.
But while he rop"es his ideas and trips them
in his gallop, never for a moment is his jwn
nice poise unsettled. And if his delight in
brilliant antitheses leads him at times into
the ditch of paradox, as it naturally does,
you at any rate feel that there is no imme-
diate need for you to be concerned about his
ability to get triumphantly out of it again.
vFor it is not in his immense and obvious
self-confidence that you put your trust, but
in his very humility. While he loves, for
instance, to dilate upon tire technics of other
people’s prose, he seems to be totally uncon-
scious of the astonishing cleverness of his
own. And then, again, his point of view,
though always oddly original and often pro-
vocatively so, does not prevent him from
honestly trying to interpret his author for
you. He never swamps his subject beneath
anathemas of cleverness —as Wilde and
Chesterton (with both of whom he has
points in common) so often do. “Never for
a moment,” as Beerbohm says, “will you find
Dixon Scott consciously interposing his
‘ego’ or in any way. bothering about it.” This
brave humility rounds and completes his
array of talents; it preserves the writer from
priggishness and reveals the man behind the
work as a. vigorous, full-blooded, admirable
and lovable fellow. It amounts almost to
a confession to be discerned between the
lines, that he is writing purely for the love
(if not the fun) of the thing.
This makes for good reading, of course.
But the provocative—some might ' even
think provoking—characteristic of Scott’s
criticism is his fondness for assuming
a unique viewpoint in relation to his sub-
ject. Forced to a cogent brevity, as he con-
fessedly was, by the exigent nature of the
“alert immediate article,” his favorite
method was to seize upon some hitherto un-
suspected and “unworked” feature in his
author, and present this feature to the reader
with all the strong and vivid persuasiveness
at his command. In this engaging if some-
what perverse advocacy of untenable hypo-
theses, Scott’s powerful and subtle brain
seems fairly to have revelled. If you will
take the titles of his essays—“The Innocence
of Bernard Shaw,” “The Meekness of Bud-
yard Kipling,” “The Ambitions of Sir .Tames
Barrie.” “The Humility of Henry James,”
“The Homeliness of Browning”—and assume
that, so far as logic and brilliant spruiking
could do it, he was able to prove the fitness
of each of those quaintly anomalous titles,
you will admit that when, the gods held con-
gress in 1915 to decide which of England’s
literary young men were “too clever to live.”
the name of Dixon Scott must have appeared
somewhere near the head of their fatal list.
ADRIAN LAWLOR.
Language and Race
A great deal of nonsense is written about
race. The existence of a group of Aryan
languages in Europe and Asia does not prove
that there was ever an Aryan Empire or even
an Aryan race, although on this assumption
the English have been hailed as long-lost
cousins of the Bengali. It would be just as
treasonable to assume that a Chinaman who
learns to speak English becomes English by
race. And all this balderdash about “the Celtic
genius” and “the Celtic race” makes me tired.
There is a Celtic language but there is no
Celtic race. The short, dark, long-headed,
Spanish-looking Welshman of South Wales,
the tail, fair, long-headed Scottish High-
lander, almost a Scandinavian in the Far
North and some of the Western Islands, arid
the medium-colored round-headed Breton of
Brittany all talk Celtic, but they belong to
three different races. The Cornisliman has
(Continued on page 26.)


<aee
Special Footwear Values at Anthony Horderns’
sminiiiiinnnnro
iiujiiiuumiming
liiliiilii
Wmmm
wm *
.
’
Li
Cj
yss.tf
7
L 8
9m
V
r
m
mum]
15
l
©
X :S
>y-:V
nmmn
uniniiiii
niiiiiiMnrriiiiiiimmmTn
LIOO
L 6
Ll 2
The House of
A wealth of refined Styles is incorpo-
rated in the Smart, Service-giving Foot-
wear at Anthony Horderns’, combining
comfort and particular appropriateness
to present-day Fashions. Compare the
Quality and Price —Anthony Horderns’
Values sweep away all competition.
LI. —Fine Grade White
Nubuck Court Shoes, neat
tongue and buckle, pump .soles
and Cuban heels. All sizes.
Pair 27/6
L2.—Patent Leather Court
Shoes, with pump soles and
Louis heels. A very smart,
slender model. Perfect-fitting
round ankles, with a neat gilt
buckle. All sizes.
Pair 29/6
L3.—Bally’s Swiss Make
Patent Leather Court Shoes,
pump soles and Cuban heels.
Five distinct styles, in either
extended or short lasts.
Pair 35/-
L4.—Bally’s White Canvas
Shoes, sinart-fitting last. All
sizes 2 to 7.
Pair 25/-
L 5 Court Shoes,
smart extended last, Louis
heels and pump soles. Neat
silver buckle.
Pair 25/-
L6.—Finest Quality Patent
Leather Court Shoes, with
latest gunmetal and silvered
buckles, pump sole.s and Cuban
heels. Perfect fitting, ex-
tended last. All sizes.
Pair
29/6
L7.—Fine Quality Tan Calf
Court Shoes, neat punching
round collar, leather Cuban
heels and sewn soles.
Pair 30/-
LB.—Fine Grade Black
Glace Kid Lace Shoes, pump
soles and leather Cuban heels,
perfect fitting. All Sizes.
Pair 27/6
L9.—Tan Calf Face Shoes,
on smart extended last, a per-
fect fitting shoe, with sewn
soles and leather Cuban heels.
Pair 29/6
Llo.—Fine Quality White
Canvas Lace Shoes, with
welted soles and covered Cuban
heels.
Pair 22/6
Lll.—Fine Quality Tan Calf
Brogue Shoes, ideal for ladies’
sports wear or walking, welted
soles and comfortable low walk-
ing heels, made on a genuine
Scotch model, with fringed Fife
tongues. A shoe that will give
genuine satisfaction. All sizes
and fittings.
Pair 42/-
Lighter Brogue Shoe on a
smart extended last, with a
lighter weight welted soles, in
a fine rich-color Tan.
Pair 35/-
Ll2.—Fine Grade Patent
Leather Lace Shoes, with
genuine welted soles and leather
Cuban heels, smart extended
last. All sizes.
Pair
27/6
Wc Pay Carriage on
Footwear to any part
of New South Wales.
LI 00.—Men’s Black Calf Lace Boots, with
solid leather soles and heels, full round toes,
perfect fitting. Can also be supplied with
Blucher cut fronts, not quite so wide in toes.
All sizes from 5 to 11.
Pair
25/-
Carriage Paid on Inter-
State and Island Orders
to the nearest port.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.


i
2
i
g
1
I
i
I
2
1
i
22
i
m
m
V/.
m
i
The Cause. The Symptoms. The Remedy.
One of the most distressing troubles a
person can endure is biliousness. It is
depressing to the spirits and demoralising to the entire system.
i __ ;
The person so afflicted is scarcely able to work or take an
interest in anything. The sewers of his body are clogged and
need flushing out. The bile is turned from its proper channel
and enters the blood and produces that peculiar cast of
complexion. He is very restless, uneasy or sleepless at night,
or perhaps his slumber i£ lethargic and dull. He has dull pains,
uneasiness under the right side and shoulder blades, a bitter
taste in the mouth, sudden dizziness on rising, furred tongue,
bowels loose one day and constipated the next. All or any of
these conditions may accompany the bilious condition, and
while so afflicted the patient’s life is scarcely worth living.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills relieve this trouble speedily and
cast the burden from the spirits. They open the clogged-up
system, purify the blood, and once more the human
mechanism works smoothly and easily.
DaMoRSEs
m
a
&
i
r/77/
A
WKSm.
FOR THE
LIVER
■r*'\ Ill'll
'rnmrn
They Make You Feel Brighter.


B
A Dainty Laxative
The day of harsh purgatives, of
big cathartic pills is over- gone for
ever. No need any longer to
swallow a nauseating dose to give
nature the gentle assistance . re-
quired. Pinkettes, the new laxative,
are little pink sugar-coated ovals,
easy to take and pleasant in their
action. They are not drastic,
although certain and thorough.
Pinkettes are designed to
arouse the sluggish bowels and tor-
pid liver, to correct bad breath,
clear the complexion, and banish
biliousness and headache,
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 G.P.0., Melbourne.
O ■> ,
SUMMER Comfort
is briefly "clothes to
suit the climate” and
most essentially care in
selection of garments
next to the skin.
mm W 3/
is the new idea in sum-
mer underwear. The
porous and ribbed cot-
ton underwear that
allows the air to circu-
late freely between the
skin and the garment.
SOLD BY
Leading Mercers
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS :
HILL BROS., SYDNEY
CELEBRATED
22
A
The Rapid Cure for Corn*-.
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and voung—hard or soft, and
that remedy is A’CORN SILK, which
removes the worst corn in a few days, and the
sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure—it kills them. It is a painless cure —
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz. :-t-
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
K. W. Bradley, Fitzroy Buildings, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Aberdeen House,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
L. Susman &Co., Merchants, Hobart. ,
R. H. Maxwell & Co., 18 Howard Street
Perth, W.A. r {
Fashion is faithful to
MOROCCO HANDBAGS
OF GOOD STYLE.
Here is one example which expresses perfect taste.
It is made in smart shape from real black
Morocco, and equipped with a leather lining and
small purse. It measures 7 x 7i inches.
jPrice 21-
When ordering, ask for X5l. We pay postage.
Send for our illustrated catalogue.
The American Bag Stores Ltd.,
Corner King and Pitt Streets; Strand Corner, Pitt
Street; Sydney Arcade, George Street; 117 Liverpool
Street, Sydney; and 291 King Street, Newtown.
Pure wool of the finest quality
Is spun and woven by British
workpeople in Britain to make
these Jason Stockings and
1 Socks with the Finish that
Rllords sheer comfort all
I through wear '
Simplify your Sock-buying
and ensure satisfaction by merely saying
“Jason.”
All that is best in all-wool socks, latest in style, soft-
est in Finish and most perfect in fit will then be laid
before you.
Stockings and Socks
For Men, Women and Children.
Good Drapers and Stores everywhere can *
supply you, Sec the Jason Tab.
Manufactured by :
W. TYLER SONS & CO.,
King Street. Leicester, England.
Thejasott
Tab
©
TRUSS COMFORT
If you are ruptured and must wear a Truss get one
that will not interfere with your bodily comfort. Get
Denyer’s
Elastic Truss
—the Truss with the soft elastic bands. This is an
efficient as well as a comfortable ■ safeguard. It
supports the ruptured part without undue pressure
—you hardly know it is being worn. There is no
Truss obtainable so thoroughly serviceable as this
special safeguard of Denyer’s, priced at only
SINGLE 30/-; DOUBLE 40/-
Send for our Free Truss Pamphlet.
DENYER BROS.,
Truss Specialists, 281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to: CASA TORRE, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, S. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
Used the
World Over
a
MOTOR
...CARS
The Greatest
Marvel of
the Age.
376
m
So Simple a Child
Can Work It.
376
Hand Embroiderer
Embroiders in a day what would take a month
by hand.
Works anything on anything.
From the Finest Georgette to the
Thickest Curtain Material.
Printed instructions with every machine; also free demonstrations
and teaching at Malcolm Buildings, Malcolm Lane, near Bridge
Street, Sydney; and at Room Six, 6th Floor, Stock Exchange
Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVE (WHOLESALE ONLY) :
Eastern Trading Co. Ltd., Malcolm Place, Sydney.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On the Beach.
Two crumpled letters in your pocket,
And your blood upon the sands,
And round your neck your lover’s locket
And your secret in your hands.
One long letter to your mother,
One short letter to your wife,
And nothing else to leave another
But the laughter of your life.
In the night you held your thunder
And your lightning in your hands,
And you left us all to wonder
On the one who understands.
n.s.w.
LEON GELLERT.
Piddle of Years.
Here where the firelight is low, and the
glamor of quiet is woven
Over the shadow,y sheen of familiar book
laden walls,
I have found the brown old fiddle of years,
and the silence is cloven,
And the old songs and the old dreams come
back, and the old love calls.
Yonder the mirror gleams, the mirror that
shows to "my vision
An old man playing an old brown fiddle,
with misty strings,
Low and low in the low-light, rich with a
fire elysian,
Fair and far as the dusk-gold the shadow-
music sings!
Yet deep in the throbbing minor of the theme
with its wistful yearning,
Age mourns with a poignant sorrow Life’s
passionate lost delight,
And dim at the open window, like a great
gem deeply burning,
Darkles the blossom of shadow, the sable
rose of Night.
Here where the dawn wakes pale, and a
delicate splendor is woven
Rose v warm over the darkness of drab,
familiar things,
I have taken the brown old fiddle anew, and
the shadows are cloven.
And gold and glad as the dawn-flame the
elfin music sings !
And mocking the flying darkness, the rapture
of youth eternal
Burns through the surging psean, like the
glitter of jewelled spray,
And bronze at the wide-flung window, like
a promise of joy supernal,
Shimmers the rose of sunlight, the flaming
flower of Day.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
Over the Hill.
Over the hill, not far
The tall green trees and the gravestones
are;
On the hillside, green and high,
Lifted up against the sky
An angel stands on a shaft of stone
And a woman is laid below, alone.
She had her days of grief and laughter;
Joy for a while, and weariness after;
And the little angel that guards her so
Always looks on the town below,
And smiles in the sun, as though all’s well
In the restless town, where her children
dwell.
And over the hill the winds blow,
The gravestones crumble, the trees grow r .
N.S.W.
McENSAY.
Off Gravesend.
Lolling on a ferryboat I watch the barges
beating.
Hogging it so ponderous along the water-
way ; *
Watch the trawlers footing it, racing up to
Billingsgate—
Sonny, but those dripping crates will fetch
a price to-day!
Hidden in the downy clouds above the Essex
marshes
liark a lark is carolling, is singing loud
and long;
Sure enough his little heart is bursting nigh
with gladness,
Sure enough the soul of me is chastened
by his song.
Far away the Kentish hills go sinuously roll-
ing,
Overhead the flying clouds are scudding to
the sea;
Yonder swing the laundry lines, bunting out
with dungarees,
Flagging to the watermen to hurry home
to tea.
Wearily by Rosherville. among a maze of
launches,
Creeps a crazy cargo-boat and steaming at
her ease;
All her rotten bottom-plates riveted with
barnacles,
Foul from months of idleness among the
China seas.
Warping out of Tilbury, with all her brasses
flashing,
Black above the shipping looms a dandy
P. and 0.,
Throbbing while her thrashing screw churns
the swirling waterway,
Eager for the wet road where the flying
clippers go.
Bournemouth’s full of smart hotels, flash
with plate and jewellery,
Ventnor’s nursing half a lung and coughing
at the sea,
Down along the river-side, beside the Essex
marshes,
Down among the shipping is the only place
for me.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
W. MONRO ANDERSON.


M
// *'
/_*
r-
s' £
»[
4; *•*'
: .
/2t
C 5
I*3
\
if
f*\
~~ •
Ta
\
: sw.tK
JllllV;
The Nation’s Cake.
year every Australasian Christmas cake will be made
from the dried fruits of the Sunraysed Settlements, sorted,
packed and marketed by the A.D.F.A. It is a fine achieve-
ment for Australian growers. But better still—at no distant date
the Christmas cake of the Empire will be made up with A.D.F.A.
currants, raisins and muscatels. Five years ago the A.D.F.A. had
to force their goods on the market; to-day the separate markets of
the world are forcing the Sunraysed Settlements to produce
more fruit.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W. ; Australia, -for Transmission by Post a& a Newspaper.
Vol. 41.—N0. 2122.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1920.
Price 9d.
THE BOLSH SUGGESTS AN ARMISTICE.


The Bulletin .
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 16s. per annum, you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and \V. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.);
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Tohannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., li)l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; the Boston Hat Works and News
Co., 10!)A Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. —Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; J. Roland Kay Co., 18)9
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Liberty News
Co., Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth
Avenue and 27th Street, Neiu York; Schulte News
Agency, Bryant Park, )2nd Street and 6th Avenue,
New York City; Golden Gate News Agency, 719
Market Street, Chicago; George Hussey, Pershing
Square Neivs Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong ICong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore.— John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Salobn, Suva.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper ); Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — othervdse: Boz., lid.; Bioz. to 10of..
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, )oz., lid., and
Id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1920.
POPULAR IDOLS OF THE BELLOW-
ING VARIETY.
The idea that any large bellowing person
who simply says, with threats, that things
must be done can supply the place of the
person who knows how to do things attracts
a good deal of support. The bellower is
cyclonic, and though a cyclone doesn’t
create and does destroy it draws heaps of
notice. He is gramophonic, and though a
gram, supplies no new ideas it repeats old
ones in a drum-like voice which is louder
than the original. Russia’s Soviet Govern-
ment has put up the record noise. Being
an autocracy and having special chances
while the world was distracted by war, it
has had a run of about three years. Its
shadow in Queensland got a clear run of
over five years. Having no military forces
of its own it could only howl in a minor
key. Its opportunities for riot, murder and
confiscation were limited, and so it was un-
able to commit suicide so quickly or sensa-
tionally as it might otherwise have done.
A similar crowd in temporary possession
of Federal authority withpporerw r er to debase
the coinage, raise armies, expel opponents
from the. Legislature and “take over”
wealth and industry as the men in Brisbane
threatened to do could achieve marvels.
The still more attenuated phantom in
N S.W. was born rather late. The value of
Russia afar off and Queensland close at
hand as proofs that the men of threats and
bellowing hold the keys that unlock Para-
dise was depreciating. Also the N.S.M.
administration lacks the vicious foreign stif-
fening which the others possess. Still, it
is ridiculous enough, with its weak violence;
its financial shifts after only six months
trial; its sudden backing-down from the high
estate of its promises; its lamentations about
how unspecified circumstances combined
against it; and its mild and Pickwickian
Premier’s occasional pose as a dangerous
character who will do violent things with
a feather or otherwise to enemies not
named if his legislation isn’t passed.
* * * *
It appears to be the unshiftable view of
all these men of loose eloquence that there
is always unlimited money somewhere, and
that if a fist is shaken hard enough at the
place where the bullion ought to be it must
materialise. Even if they did nothing in
the way of opening new gold-mines they
would bail up an existing two-pennyweight
show and order it to become a two-ounce
show on the spot, or take the consequences.
Shortly before the Queensland State election
Premier Theodore made a notable effort.
His £9,000,000 loan having failed he assured
his followers that they need not leave him
on that account, as money would be raised
locally. He warned the pastoralists that if
they didn’t subscribe the loans the lid of
Sheol would blow off, and steam and bricks
would pour forth. He further threatened
that the millions which are supposed to
leave Queensland annually as tribute to pas-
toral investors in the accursed other States
would be intercepted. As a matter of fact
the pastoral wealth of Queensland isn’t ex-
cessive. Queensland is the great ox State
of the Commonwealth, being nearly equal in
ox to all the rest put together. It ranks
second as a sheep State, and is something of
a horse-and-pig State. Yet it compares
with a modest foreign rival, not much larger
in its habitable area. like this: —
Queensland. Argentina.
Cattle . . . . 5,786,744 30,796,447
Sheep . . . . 18,220,985 8,1,485,149
Horses .. .. 759,726 9,366,455
Pigs . . . . 140,966 3,197,377
Asses and mules —■ 929,146
In fact, the Queensland pastoralist is rather
a petty individual, blown out to great
theoretical dimensions so that money may
be raised on him. He has already been
heavily taxed to provide cheap meat for the
State butcheries. The Federal Govern-
ment, finding his rents were low, taxed him-
the difference between what he paid and
what he might have paid. Having no con-
tract with him, it had a right to do this.
Then the State Government, which had a
contract with him, broke it, and more than
doubled his rent and dated the increase back.
The idea that unlimited further wealth could
be squeezed out of the ox man, provided the
Theodore Government was returned, and
provided the ox man was menaced loudly
enough, is the old comforting delusion that
there are unlimited riches hidden somewhere
—in Chancery or Golconda or in Heaven,
where the streets are gold, or in our unde-
veloped resources, or in the • profiteer’s
pocket, or at the tail of the rainbow —and
.that Bosh, M.P., is the man to excavate
them by the sweat of his jaw.
The Government of N. S. Wales has struck
the idea of getting not only at the living ox
but at the one that was eaten years ago.
The notion is that its new Court and new
Judge shall inquire into the profits or charges
made in the arts of production, manufacture
and distribution back to the beginning of
1915, with a view to deciding whether there
was extortion, and, if so, how much should be
torn off the extorter. It is a resurrectionist
or grave-desecration sort of business, this
digging up of the late corpse and hanging it
for a crime which wasn’t a crime when the
corpse was alive. Yet, though there are
glad hopes that the future may snatch easy
money out of the past, the present is melan-
choly and unfinancial. The proposed grant
of a 44-hours’ maximum week, despite all
the agreements which define a working week
as 48 hours, brought an intimation that if
the State Government fixed any 44-hours’
week at the Federal Government’s dockyard
in Sydney, the work would be removed else-
where. The proposition to raise the wind
by taxing exported coal crumpled before the
reminder of a fact which the Cabinet should
have known 20 years ago, that the taxing-
power is the property of the Commonwealth.
It begins to leak out that the promised pen-
sion to all children after the second in the
family may have to be dropped because,
though the revenue has increased, the money
has slid down a hole. The Prohibition poll
may be abandoned because, if Prohibition
was carried, the Government couldn’t find
the money to compensate “the trade.” There
are doubts about the proposed State lottery,
in which all prizes were to be paid in 10-
year bonds. And there are bigger doubts
about the scheme to make the “small in-
vestor”, subscribe to a £3,000,000 loan (mak-
ing three big loans in six months) ; a thing
he can only do by taking money out of the
Government savings banks to lend it to the
Government in another way at h/igher
interest.
* * * *
The gospel of Australia’s two imitation
Bolshevik Governments has been: (1) That
work is a curse and an emblem of slavery,
and more particularly Saturday work; (2)
that as long as a Labor Government is in
office man should be able to live by levying
on the oppressor who must be around some-
where ; and (3) that anyone who is suffici-
ently vociferous to become prominent in
Labor circles can run any department of
State, though he lacks expert knowledge
and the industry to acquire it. It is im-
possible to say that anybody looks happier
for all this theorising and fierce defiance.
The promises of a loafer’s paradise have
brought swarms of languid characters to
Sydney and Brisbane, and in the latter city
Ministers have long been leading a back-
door life to avoid unemployed deputations,
while if John Storey is enjoying life he is a
fine illusionist. And it can’t De said that the
people have been made more joyful by the
efforts of their new saviours, though they
may pilfer more and put more money on a
horse. It is significant of the impelling force
of example that the amount of money put on
horse lately has been a record, likewise the
increase in petty crime.
A CHALLENGING POLICY WITH
NOTHING TO BACK IT.
“Senator Millex is ' attending the League of
Nations’ ineeung with instructions to oppose most
vehemently Japan’s demand that an assertion of the
racial equality of all the - members should be made
in the covenant.”
“Reports from Tokio state that Japan will insist
on race equality at the forthcoming meeting of
the League of Nations.”
“The opinion is expressed that Canada will take
an important part in the discussions. It is believed
fhat the Dominion will be hostile to Japan’s pro-
posal.”
In ordinary social matters the man who
talks big to people who are aware that he
lacks the equipment to enforce his demands
not only fails to get his way; he also makes
an ass of himself. Nations are in the same
boat as individuals in this respect; which
suggests that the Dominion representatives
are likely to be in a false, not to say, absurd,
position when they face the Japanese dele-
gates across the League table. Canada has
no navy; and that of Australia, regarded
as a defence factor, is a thing of the past.
The recent Federal estimates were framed,
not, as it was promised they should be,
with a view to efficiency, but with an ey§
to votes. And the skeleton fleet that Aus-
tralia has left is evidently going to be
exploited for votes till further notice. A
recent message from Perth ran: —
Senator Pearce has telegraphed the Minister for
the Navy stating that strong representations had
been made to him in Perth for a continuance of
the work on the Henderson naval base on the pre-
sent scale at least.
Not that the Fremantle base is more essen-
tial to the safety of the Commonwealth than
any of the proposed bases elsewhere. The
point is that its continuance means jobs,
and jobs mean votes for the present Govern-
ment.
* * * *
It is a salutary operation at the present
time to contrast with this country’s light-
some disregard of its sea-defence obligations,
with its industrial disorganisation, and with
the tendency of its politicians to shelve
such problems, the situation of the people
whose racial demands' are being challenged.
Japan has never known the industrial unrest
which is limiting production here. “I came
to Japan,” wrote the London Times’ Pekin
correspondent a few weeks ago, “expecting
to find evidence of serious unrest and organ-
ised movements amongst the workers. On
the contrary, I found a definite desire to let
things be, and to allow Japan to enjoy the
competitive advantages of freetrade in
human material, unfettered by restrictions
on child labor, hours or wages. Two
salient facts are, first, that the Government
declines to allow two million factory-
workers to organise any union, and, second,
that there is no organised Labor party, nor
prominent politician prepared to lead one.”
We are not building out own warships; and
what with strikes and the fact that a too-
long indulgence in low tariffism has kept in-
dustry in the elementary stage, we are not
even assembling them at a satisfactory rate.
Thus the light cruiser Adelaide, which was
laid down four years ago, will not be fin-
ished till next year, by which time it will
be obsolete. In a manufacturing country
enjoying reasonable labor stability, a vessel
of the sort would have been in commission
within eight months. Japan’s numerous
naval dockyards are all working overtime.
At Kure the battleship Nagato will shortly
be completed, and it is to be followed by
the battle-cruiser Akagi. The former’s dis-
placement is only 3000 tons below that of
the Hood itself, and like the Hood it
will mount eight 15-inch guns. The Akagi
is to be equally formidable in its class.
The Japanese have to expand somewhere.
Their islands were, getting uncomfortably
full two centuries ago. To-day the popu-
lation is 60,000,000, and that is more than
double what it wasi in the middle of last cen-
tury. The people’s prime needs are cul-
tivable land and coal —food for themselves
and their industries. China offers coal and
no food, the teeming Asiatic population
there needing every available grain of rice
for home consumption. Western Canada
offers food and no coal. Australia has
plenty of both. What barriers have we to
offer when the inevitable push at our
national door begins?
**•**-
Legitimately speaking, none at all. If a
party Government could afford to be honest,
the Hughes administration would have said
to the country, through Mr. Laird Smith,
last month: “The little flotilla we are offer-
ing you is useless except as a refuge for cer-
tain" naval ranks and ratings who happen
to be on our hands. There is no ship in
it that could account for any imaginable
invader, and it does not co-ordinate with any
R.N. squadron. We are afraid to ask the
electors for the cash necessary to provide
effective defence, and so have decided to
leave the whole thing to the Admiralty.”
Australia’s first line of defence is, in fact,
the British taxpayer—and so is Canada’s.
When the delegates from these Dominions
put their cases before the Japanese at the
first meeting of the League there will not
be behind their contentions —as, admittedly,
there is going to be behind those of the
Japs—the unspoken threat: “Yield, other-
wise we may withdraw, and, in the last
resort, fight!” At the best they can only
say: “Yield, or we will ask the British to
fight—the British who don’t understand our
White Australia doctrine, whose main fleet
is 12,000 miles away, and who are war-
worn and over-taxed.” The Japanese counter
is obvious. “You are not even in a position
to be defended by someone else,” they will
argue. “You have not made provision for the
docking, in case of need, of a modern battle-
cruiser much less a battleship. And where
are your oil and coal supplies, your turbines,
propellers, guns, machinery and other spares?
We have bases from which we can draw all
such necessaries within a few hours of
coming out of action. The ships and guns
that try to defend you will be useless after
one engagement.” There are only two prac-
ticable ways in which this country can be
defended on the sea. One is for the Execu-
tive to make up its mind that the job will
be done by others, and with that end in
view to spend whatever money is available
on docks, whether floating or dry, capable
of accommodating modern battleships, and
on the organisation of supplies. When an
artillery brigade came out of action in Flan-
ders there were a thousand things it had
to draw from ordnance, ranging from wheels
for G.S. waggons to new guns. The floating
artillery formation which we call a capital
ship may wear out most of its guns in one
battle, apart from the damage it is likely
to sustain from the enemy’s fire. Yet at
present the pattern numbers of the most
trifling naval requirements are not in stock
so far as the Government depots are con-
cerned. Such articles have to be got from
English supply depots or bought locally
from private firms, which, absurdly enough,
have imported them originally in many cases
from Japan. Our alternative method of
sea-defence consists in the adoption of the
Jellicoe scheme, or one like it. That is to
say, we must own a fleet capable of acting
in co-operation with the R.N. at a moment’s
notice ; it must have striking power, which
involves a minimum of one battle-cruiser,
be able to defend our £150,000,000 worth of
sea-borne trade, which calls for light cruisers
and armed escorts, and contain enough
destroyers, submarines and mine-sweepers to
protect the great harbors. There is only
one objection to the acquisition of such a
weapon—that it must absorb money which
is needed for the construction of a bush capi-
tal, for the rising cost of legislators’ salaries,
for -the proliferation of Government depart-
ments and for local works designed to buy
local political favor. But with it the Com-
monwealthls representatives will be able to
talk the only policy that is going to keep
the race pure, and there will be no war.
A POLICY THAT THREATENS TO
MAKE AUSTRALIA A WHEAT-
IMPORTING COUNTRY.
During the war the Australian wheat-
grower was the victim of a colossal confi-
dence-trick, and the consumer shared in the
plunder. In 1915 Cocky was implored to
sow every acre he could to feed the fighting-
men and save Britain from starvation.
And he was assured that if he did
so he would receive a fair return. Thus
encouraged he cropped an extra three million
acres and reaped 179,000,000 bushels, which
was greater by 75,000,000 than his previous
best harvest, and placed Australia fifth on
the list of wheat-producing countries for that
year.
* * * *
Then things began to happen. The wheat
was commandeered by shiftless and improvi-
dent Governments, and they looked after
it so badly that immense quantities were
destroyed, the loss being debited to the
owners. The shipping arrangements were
handled with equal ineptitude. Cargp-space
on British steamers was refused at 955. a
ton when other countries —Argentina, for
instance —were glad to pay 140 s. But the
financial measures were what hurt most.
The grower wasn’t allowed to put a price
on his wheat, or to stipulate for payment on
a c.o.d. basis. Perfect strangers fixed the
figure for local consumption at about 3s. 4d.
a bushel less than the ruling rate in Canada,
Argentina and the U.S. What remained after
the mice and weevils had had their fill was to
be sold in London for what it would fetch,
less war freights, insurance, handling charges,
expenses of mismanagement, bank interest
and so forth. The first payment of 2s. 6d.
a bushel was not enough to meet the grower’s
expenditure on the 1915 crop, and 1914 was
a bad year. There have been five wheat
pools and not* one of them has been cleaned
up. At long intervals, the farmer has re-
ceived about 4s. 3d. a bushel for his 1915-16
wheat, 3s. 3d. for the 1916-17 article, 3s.
4d. from the 1917-18 pool, and 4s. 3d. from the
harvest of 1918-19, so far as there was any;
and that is less than the cost of production.
In N. S. Wales, according to J. Carrutheks,
himself a farmer, there were produced in
five years 138,000,000 bushels of wheat for
an average return of 3s. lOd. a bushel.
It didn’t repay the cost of production. I know
it as one who has grown wheat under better condi-
tions than those farmers. I got doable and treble the
price they got, and double and treble the yield, and
I know 3s. lOd. did not return expenses. In the
U.S., in Canada and in Argentina the price paid
during those years to the wheat-grower was Bs. per
bushel. Our farmers got 264 millions sterling for
five crops of 138,000,000 bushels. If they had got
Bs. per bushel they would have received £30,000,000
more. The community has been subsidised by the
farmers to the extent of £30,000,000.
Which sum is separate from the fortunes
that were made by speculators who exported
cargoes of flour to Egypt, Java and other
countries. One result of these under-payments
was that thousands of farmers had to pawn
their wheat scrip at interest ranging from
six to eight per cent, to get the wherewithal
to carry on; and that meant that when a
dividend was declared the banks collared part
of it. Another consequence was that the area
under wheat diminished fast. There was a
drop of nearly a million acres in 1916-17,
and a further drop of over a million and
three-quarters in 1917-18. By the following
year the acreage had got down to nearly a
million and a quarter less than the 1913-14
figures, and four and a half millions less than
the total in the first complete war year. In
effect, wheatgrowing had become a sweated
industry, and thousands of fed-up farmers
gave it best.
* * * *
Last year, except in N. S. Wales, where
Hayseed was struggling with drought, things
began to improve. Faced with the possi-
bility of wheat going out of cultivation alto-
gether, the Commonwealth Government
guaranteed the grower ss. a bushel net on
delivery, together with prompt payment of
the' balance realised from local and oversea
sales. At the same time the local price was
increased to 7s. Bd. a bushel. It wasn’t
entirely a satisfactory arrangement, from
the farmer’s point of view. With the cessa-
tion of hostilities a world-wide demand had
set in for wheat, and he could still point
out that the Australian price was about
half-a-erown a bushel less than that in the
world’s market. Westralia, in particular,
complained bitterly of having to sell to
N. S. Wales at 7s. Bd. what it could get
10s. for in London, and 11s. or 12s. in Italy
and Egypt. The farmers generally main-
tained that they were entitled to the full
market value of their produce—meaning
world’s parity —and nothing less. But the
ss. guarantee was an earnest of better treat-
ment. and the area under wheat started to
increase again. The process has been


assisted by the advent of soldier-settlers,
thousands of whom are getting ready to take
off their first crop. It has likewise been
accelerated by the offer of the N. S. AA ales
Government to add 2s. 6d. a bushel to the
Federal guarantee. But now, just when
things were looking brighter, Cocky
has had a return of the old dismal
insecurity. Hughes has suddenly remem-
bered that he didn’t promise to pay
the guaranteed ss. at the stack or
siding, or at any specified time or place.
And the N. S. Wales Minister of Agriculture
is equally doubtful as to when Cocky will
receive his 7s. 6d. The proposal that the
local price of 1920-1 wheat should be the
same as the export price has been denounced
as a “swindle” by Labor politicians who are
accustomed to talk loftily at election-time
about giving the producer “the full results of
his labor.” Yet they didn't detect any
swindle in the previous arrangement which
enabled their constituents to buy wheat at
less than cost price. Professor Watt, of
Sydney University, takes a very different
view:—•
Australia is the only country in the world where
the effect of war was to reduce the price of agricul-
tural products. During the war. and at the present
time, the Australian has had the cheapest loaf in
the world.
Incidentally, the Australian who grew the
wheat has been harder hit by the war than
any other member of the community. And
in the result, a situation has been created
“where a single mistake on the part of the
politicians might give the industry a big set-
back.” Australia, as was proved in 1915-16, is
capable of becoming one of the biggest wheat-
growing countries in the world. But “if
the farmers are denied world’s parity for
their wheat they will cease to produce.” In
other words, they will invade the cities. For
there are few intrinsic attractions in toiling
long hours for an uncertain reward outback,
where heat, flies, drought, rust and barcoo-
rot obtain.
A CHOICE OF TWO REVOLUTIONS.
All over the world Governments are listen-
ing apprehensively for the revolutionary
tumbril, yet in many of the soberest coun-
tries it is the Executives which are doing
most to attract the vehicle. Tyranny has
always been one of the aftermaths of revolu-
tion : existence under the Mountain a cen-
tury ago was apparently very like life
under Leninism to-day. But people will
stand treatment, after they have seen
what revolution means, which would
cause a record upheaval if they had no
memories of a horrible past to keep them
quiet. That is why methods which may be
suited to modern Moscow are dangerous
when applied in countries where Moscow is
but a name. The lead, as regards constitu-
tional despotism, was givefi by men like
Lloyd George and Clemenceau, and their
policy found an eager imitator here in W.
M. Hughes. With the ending of the Great
War the political despots of Europe acquired
a new engine of power in the Supreme Coun-
cil. Their Parliaments and press could
more or less control them in their capacities
of Prime Ministers or field-marshals, but in
the larger sphere they were as impervious to
attack as the Creator. Few will deny that
the little handful of politicians and soldiers,
French and English, comprising the inner
circle of the Council, have left the world
worse than they found it. India and Ire-
land are in a ferment. Mesopotamia has
become too hot to hold. The Balkans are
smouldering where they are not burning up
in the old brisk manner. America has
withdrawn from the effort to settle
agonies, partly in despair, partly in disgust.
It is natural that half-a-dozen elderly men.
eminent as lawyers or orators or soldiers,
but with little or no personal acquaintance
of the races whose destinies they were try-
ing to settle, should make mistakes. They
were bound to fail, if only on the score of
remoteness. Wielding vast powers, and
entertaining the best of intentions consistent
with their own and their nations’ interests,
they have transformed the field of their
activities into a pandemonium. And the
same thing is occurring on a milder, smaller
scale in the Commonwealth.
* * * *
The sole bulwark which a constitutional
country presents against revolution is ad-
equate representation. Not an imposture
which any ass can see through, but the
genuine article. Australia lacks this
both in its Federal and State Houses.
The Senate never has been representa-
tive. To-day, with one individual to
voice the views of probably the most
numerous section in the Commonwealth,
and with 35 to oppose him, the place
is an absurdity. The nominee members of
the State Councils, while owning and freely
using the right of veto, represent nobody but
the politicians to whom they owe their seats.
The Australian Parliament, in addition to
being afflicted with a Senate which is in-
capable of fulfilling any of the duties
required of such a Chamber, has at the
moment a Supreme Council. That is to say,
W. M. Hughes. He brings to his self-
imposed job all the inevitable ignorance and
all the intellectual arrogance of the institu-
tion which has bungled the affairs of Europe
and the Middle East. Naturally his actions
have fomented discontent and unrest in all
sorts of quarters, and he has said that he
will continue on his present course until a
country with which we have never been at
war, and which has no responsible govern-
ment, makes peace with us. Even under
normal conditions the allegedly free and
independent elector has difficulty in making
himself heard. It is again a matter of
remoteness. Under party government the
Laborite in a strong Nationalist constitu-
ency is practically unrepresented; and the
Nationalist, unless he is a very prominent
Nationalist, with a loud and dominant
voice and a “pull.” is not much better cir-
cumstanced. All that the sitting member —
Nationalist or Laborite —really troubles
about is the party nomination, given which
he is as independent of individual electors
as Mr. Hughes is of individual M’s.P.
What is the basis of all our obedience to
the laws? It is the old Aristotlean theory
that “man bv the fact of his being is a
member of a political community” ; and that
a citizen must put up with much of which
he personally disapproves from a sentiment
of loyalty tq the State. But absolutism
and the spectacle of governmental institu-
tions which are unworkable (like the
Senate) or out of date (like the State
nominee Houses) not only undermine
loyalty to the State, they cause the State to
be disliked and despised. And that way
lies revolution.
It is to be hoped that by the time the
constitutional Convention assembles W. M.
Hughes will have given the country back
at least as much freedom as it enjoyed before
the War Precautions Act began to operate.
The Convention will then be free to deal
with the other local factors which are dan-
gerously limiting liberty. Just as three-
quarters of Europe and half Asia proved
too big for Lloyd George, Focii and Mil-
lerand, so the existing Australian States
have always been too big for the men who
tried to speak for them in the Senate. The
Federal constituencies labor under a similar
disability, and so in a lesser degree do the
State electorates. In order to ensure that
every citizen shall be vocal —and there exists
no other recipe for enduring content —the
small State or province is needed to handle
domestic affairs, and the State-wide consti-
tuency, with a representative in the Austra-
lian Parliament, for the purposes of national
concerns. Devices like Upper Houses were
never meant to expedite the carrying out of
the popular will. They were frankly put
where they are to curb it, and they are due
to- go. To reduce the situation to its sim-
plest terms, the country must be able at all
times to state its views to its Executives,
and the Executives must understand that
even the Prime Minister is no more than a
delegate. Once the Australian people are
thus enabled to govern themselves —as to
the knowledge of many of them they are
not doing at present—any talk of revolution
will be idiotic on the simple principle that
sane persons don’t smash their own furni-
ture. Unless, on the other hand, they are
presently shown a way out of the maze of
governmental and departmental Czarism. in
which ancient custom and the late war have
landed them, it is on the cards that some
may try to imitate foreign example and
blaze a sudden and gory track to freedom
for themselves.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Land of Dead Ambitions.
If a straight line is drawn from just above
Brisbane to just above Perth, about five-sixths
of the continent lies to the north and one-
sixth, with all the bloated State capitals, to
the south. North of the line are the best
watered lands on the mainland, the most
fertile lands, most of the good harbors and
most of the navigable-river mileage. And the
fate of White Australia will be settled there.
The Rest of the World says that we have no
right to keep blacks and browns out of the
1.150,000 square miles of tropical Australia
because white men can’t live and work there,
and that in the last resort we won’t be
allowed to keep them out. Australia raises a
solitary voice to the effect that its top is
really a white man’s land, and All the Rest
of the World bids us prove it by sending
white men there to stay in reasonable
numbers. Instead, Australia is manufactur-
ing evidence that it and its AVhite Australia
theory are utterly wrong, and that All the
Rest of the World is right. The number of
things a man can’t/be north of the Brisbane-
Perth line is marvellous. He can’t practise
as a Federal or State member, nor as a
Minister (not even the .forlorn creature
“without portfolio”), or as Governor-General
or State Excellency. He is debarred from
being a High Court judge, a Lord Mayor,
an archbishop, or the head of a Government
department, for the heads are all in the
seven capital cities (including Canberra)
crowded in the southern sixth of the country.
Even the ambitious Government clerk must
get out of the North so as to be under the
boss’s eye and close to the source of pro-
motion. The northerner can’t be head
manager or even a high official of a bank (the
solitary bank which tried to live up there
moved south) or a shipping or insurance co.
Nor can he be a college professor or big
strike boss, for people like Walsh nnd Gar-
den have to be at hand to annoy or terrorise
the Ministry. He can’t even be a success
as an unemployed, for only the unemployed
who can rage personally on Fiiielly’s or
Storey’s doorstep gets a job out of the loan
money, and a man who can’t get at the loan
money might as well be at work. The
natural advantages of the North are such
that there really are patches of population in
it despite all the different kinds of people who
are discouraged from living there. In
Ivnibbs’s “Official Y T ear Book” (No. 12)
appears a population map showing that at
the time of the 1911 census these spots were
quite frequent, though the ruinous centralis-
ing policy of the Ryan-Tiieodore Ministry
is said to have exterminated many of them.
But even at the best the law of the Big City
men that the North must not be peopled pre-
vented the patches growing. In Tropical
Queensland alone there could be marked out
to-day two States each with a bigger popu-
lation and better prospects than those with
which Westralia or S. Australia or Tasmania
or the existing State of Queensland started
their self-governing careers. And they would
probably boom as Victoria did after Separa-
tion. But the city pettifoggers in the seven
capitals that herd in one-sixth of the conti-
nent and wrangle about the “claims” of Mel-
bourne and Canberra decree that this
country’s greatest heritage must remain the
Land of No Ambition. There is no surer
way of saying that we shall either lose it or
only keep it by shedding rivers of blood.
♦
The Horrible Prophecies which are
Never Fulfilled.
“What Sinn Fein would do against Eng-
land with full constitutional rights can be
imagined,” remarked Melbourne Argus in a
recent attempt to freeze its readers’ blood.
Yet the easiest thing to imagine is that it
would do nothing. In every age and in the.
face of every threatened change there are
people who trade in forecasts of the horrible
things which must happen if their policy isn’t
followed; and for the most part they are
eventually stultified. W. M. Hughes is a
man after the Argus’s own heart now,
though shortly before the war he was a Com-
munist with designs on the safety of the
Empire. Australia has just finished con-
gratulating Italy on its completion of half
a century of freedom. Loyal Britishers
spoke in adulatory terms of Garibaldi and
Mazzini. Success justifies all, and the
orators did not mention that in England and
Australia 50 years ago the two great
Sardinians were regarded in right-thinking
circles as dangerous scoundrels. Disraeli
spoke of Mazzini in the House of Commons
as a “bloody assassin” ; one of Gladstone’s
Ministers was ruined by the discovery that
he had corresponded with the exile; and
Garibaldi was implored by his English
friends to go away and cease compromising
them. Every schoolboy knows what was
said about George Washington by Britain’s
best people in the 18th century. Neverthe-
less last week the British Ambassador to the
United States in placing a wreath on Wash-
ington’s tomb observed :
George Washington belongs to England. This
shows that we can recall the mistakes made by the
earlier generations and the rulers of Great Britain,
and can realise the lessons that have since made
possible the growth and prosperity of the British
Empire.
A century ago the Bourbons were considered
martyrs by the anti-Jacobins of England,
and Republican France a menace to humanity.
Bourbon princes are at a discount everywhere
to-day; and the French Republic has just
saved the civilised world, and in particular
Britain, from enslavement by an empire
which it was unfashionable to distrust be-
fore 1914. Nothing endures, not even
stupidity and prejudice ; and the present idea
of the Argus that Ireland will some day do
a mischief to its rich and powerful neighbor
is as preposterous as its theory of 10 years
ago that a Commonwealth fleet, if it ever
came into being, would be used against the
Imperial Navy. “No Irish Government,”
argued Mr. Asquith last week, “would mort-
gage its scanty resources by creating an Irish
navy, or attempt to deny the Imperial navy
access to its ports.” And if he had gone on to
state that no Irish Government would, in any
circumstances, persist in rejecting English
money and English trade, most people would
have agreed with him. All sorts of schemes
have been tried by the incensed islanders io
render them independent of the coal which
their country lacks and which can only be
got in bulk from the Sassenach. The har-
nessing of their rivers for power, the manu-
facture of briquettes from peat, the pro-
duction of industrial alcohol, the impoT-
tation of American coal—all have proved
illusory or inadequate. Meanwhile the South,
which always had better harbors than the
North, and which latterly has been attracting
quantities of English, Scotch and American
capital, is forging ahead industrially at such
a pace that it needs coal more than ever. And
just as badly as the Irish industrialists want
to buy the Sassenach's coal, so the Irish
farmers want to sell him their products.
What lunacy, in the circumstances, to
imagine that the two countries can remain
permanently alienated! They need each
other, and no nations so situated have ever
remained bad friends for long after anything
like a basis for friendship was established.
» -
Reel Tape and Lost Assets.
The appeal of Ettie A. Rout
Australia is calling for men, yet 10,000 of the
Commonwealth’s best have been granted their dis-
charges here in Britain. There were many reasons.
Some were English-born. Some married here. Many
who were casualties believed that better treatment
was available in London. Others found themselves
on discharge without training, and believed that
suitable technical knowledge would be more quickly
obtained in the U.K. In August last the Austra-
lian and M.L. Services Association wrote to their
High Commissioners and Agents-General, pointing
out that many of these men were now desirous* of
returning. In a good many cases the cause for which
they remained behind has expired, and they have
no further business here. In other cases, they had
completely over-estimated the value of their ser-
vices in England, where already competition in
labor is very keen. We asked if it was possible
for these men, whom we estimate at about a thou-
sand (at least), to receive any consideration for
Repatriation. And it was suggested that favorable
consideration of this request “would be the means
of getting back to Australia a number of men who
would be desirable citizens and whom Australia
cannot afford to lose.”
The reception:—
1. Australian Commonwealth: No reply.
2. Queensland: No reply.
3. Westralia: No reply.
4. New South Wales: “I beg to acknowledge
receipt of your letter respecting assisted passages
for ex-members of the A.I.F. to return to Australia,
and to inform you that no provision is made under
the immigration activities of N.S.W. to provide for
the repatriation of pers'ons who have been resident
in Australia.”
5. South Australia: “In reply to your communica-
tion, I am directed by the Agent-General to inform
you that any applications made by members of your
Association to go to South Australia, presumably at
the expense of your Association, would, if submitted
to the Agent-General, receive consideration on their
merits.”
6. Tasmania: “I am directed by the Agent-General
for Tasmania to acknowledge the receipt of your
letter of yesterday’s date referring to ex-A.I.F. men
in England, and in reply to inform you that no
action has been taken by his Government in the
matter.”
7. M.L.: “Free passages will be granted to all ex-
N.Z.E.F. men of good character who now wish to go
home.”
Now nobody will suggest that all the deserters,
tourists and undesirables who form the backwash
of every expeditionary force should be roped in
and given a free trip home. But why should good
Australians be penalised as compared with good
Maorilanders.
And even though these Australians did for whatever
reason, forfeit their technical right to a free pas-
sage, where is the sense in the Commonwealth Par-
liament putting on the estimates a large amount
“for the purpose-of encouraging immigration” and
refusing assistance to one of the best classes of
immigrants offering? Any sensible country in the
perilous situation which Australia occupies would
rush them. Unfortunately it is only in rare cases
that the desires of the people find expression in the
acts of their officials. Many of these fine ex-A.I.F.
men and their families will never reach the Common-
wealth, not because they aren’t wanted, not because
they don’t want to go, but simply because an impas-
sable barrage of red tape blocks the way.
Bilked!
The N.S.W. teachers had good cause to rage
when the Storey Ministry pleaded inability
to keep its promise and make their increased
salaries retrospective to July 1. There was
no abnormal drying up of the springs of
prosperity due to war, drought, flood, tidal
wave, plague, riot, Judgment Day or extra
rabbits. The chief reason why there is no
money available for the teachers’ full incre-
ments is that it has been blewed in other
directions. When the Government assumed
its job in the middle of April there was no-
thing more than usual amiss with the
finances. They were behind, as usual, yet tne
income-tax was still to come in and the
prospects generally were good enough. How-
ever, governing with Parliament closed up,
and hence, without authority for any new
expenditure, the Ministry developed a capa-
city for spending £500,000 or £OOO,OOO a
month on revenue account alone above the
Nationalist average, though that was bad
enough. In months to the end of the old
financial year a record deficit was made and
blamed by the new crowd on the old one,
which, at the worst, was only' responsible
for about half of it. The Government spent
in the first three months of the new financial
year £2,209,976 more than it received. It
increased the three months’ expenditure, as
compared with the corresponding period of
last year, by £2,105,878, apart from loans,
or by £3,922,597, including loans. Part of this
time also there was no Parliament sitting,
and during the rest of the period there was
no Parliamentary authority asked or given
for any razzle of fresh outlay. The same
idea about the unimportance of Parliament
which troubled Charles I. and Louis
XVI. and now afflicts Lenin seems to pos-
sess John Storey. Some of his unauthor-
ised spendings went in £5 presents to pros-
pective mothers in circumstances so reduced,
allegedly, that but for the bonus many babies
would have been born with nothing on as a
protest against the poverty of the land. And
the net result of it all is that the money
promised to a deserving class of public ser-
vants is not forthcoming. No offer has been
made to return the votes secured in con-
sideration of this and other promises.
Remarking soothingly that their intentions
were of the best, these political bilkers have
now passed on to other schemes and fresh
expenditure. Yet good intentions .count for
little: they are to be found as abundantly
in lunatic-asylums as in most places.
Teachers, for example, can’t buy boots for
themselves and families with them. It is
small comfort, after all, to the beneficiary
who finds his trust estate gone to learn that
the person who made away with it has a
reputation as a well-meaning individual who
is good to his mother.^
Dry Rot in the Churches.
While the churches of Australia are
absorbed in the fine points for and against
some form of spiritual evolution, there
appears to be a possibility that all of them
will fail for lack of ministers. According
to the Vicar-General of Melbourne (Arch-
deacon Hindley) “complaints have been
received in Anglican circles from practically
every State in the Commonwealth regarding
the insufficient number of candidates for the
clergy.” With admirable candor he proceeded
to mention that “it was not difficult for
bishops in the southern parts of the' Com-
monwealth to secure clergymen for good
positions, especially when they carried a
title, including that of dean or archdeacon.
AVhenever that plan was adopted, however,
disaffection invariably arose among those
ministers who had served the Church faith-
fully and efficiently for a number of years.”
It is understandable that there should be
dissatisfaction, when a body of men, 50 per
cent, of whom _are earning under £6 a week,
see Britishers imported to fill all the jobs
which offer most comfort, distinction and
remuneration. General Birdwood is the
latest to remark on the social 'bitterness
which exists here owing to the sectarian
hatreds that have arrived from the United
Kingdom. There is an obvious reason for
the shortage of church-recruits in the out-
lands of the Commonwealth. Educated men
with families will not rush such an exist-
ence, knowing that it means a wage below
that of a wharf-lumper and no prospects.
There is also an obvious explanation of the
tightness of the public’s money so far as
the churches are concerned. Many of the
clerics are worth no more than they get. The
A.I.F. was a microcosm whose inhabitants
were able to see, close iut hand, the weak-
nesses of some of the padres, the strength
of others. They got to know the
habitual base-camp or troopship cleric —
that pathetically useless feature of the
establishment, with his pleasant quar-
ters, limitless privileges, and palpable
determination to hang on to them. After a
while the discriminating Diggers were able to
identify this sorry specimen almost on sight;
and they have brought the faculty back
with them to civilian life. There was an-
other, though rarer, variety of clergyman,
and the Diggers soon got his measure too.
He pushed his way to the unpleasant places
where he was most needed. He did not
require to kowtow to any brass-hat, because
his ambitions centred on positions for which
thei’e was little competition. He did not
understand sectarian or any other form
of hate, but he did understand human nature
—understood it so well and made allowances
for it so generously that those in serious
trouble often went to him first. Australia
does not differ materially, in temperament,
from the A.I.F. It is reasonable to assume,
therefore, that it wants clerics who do not
lean naturally to the side of the powerful
and the rich in politics ; and who are neither
trouble-makers nor kill-joys in social life.
Also that it wants the senior commissions in
the armies of the Lord to go, other things
equal, to Australians who have started at
the bottom of the ladder. The churches will
steadily wane in prestige and influence until
some such changes come; to pass.
♦
The Curse of the Children on the
Fathers.
Dear Bulletin. —This is the curse of the
Australian children on the Australian fathers
who lived in luxury and died in disgrace—
The fathers from the beginning of self-government
to this day, which is the day of Theodore and


Fleet of FEDERALS used by Messrs. Sargents Ltd.
HOW DO YOU transport your goods? The up-to-date way, the quick way
and the economical way is by motor-truck. And the best way is with a
FEDERAL. The FEDERAL satisfies thousands of users, who have purchased
not only a Truck but also a transportation “System”—second to none. Think
it over!
Sizes: 1) 2, 3o > 5 tons*
Sole Agent for Australia:
H. W. CROUCH, 26-28 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
Member of the M.T.A
CITY OF SYDNEY.
City of Sydney Debenture Loans, 1920-21
Direct Sales from the City Treasury.
The City Council directs the attention of the Public to the issue
direct from the City Treasury of
Debentures bearing Interest at the rate of
Six (6) per cent, per annum,
being the continuation of the late loan flotation Ist April, 1920.
The Debentures are in denominations of £lOO or the multiple
thereof, upon which Interest will accrue and be payable as and from
the Ist of each month preceding the date of purchase.
The sums which are being raised under the respective authorities
of the Governor in Council will be used solely for the purposes of the
EXTENSION of the ELECTRICITY SUPPLY UNDERTAKING.
rr v, -p TT „ ' THOMAS H. NESBITT,
Town Clerk’s Room, Town Hall, Sydney, ,
2oth September, 1920. 1 own Clerk.
Storey and Lawson and Lee, vfrere much the
same. They inherited an unencumbered estate and
they sold as much as they could of it and spent the
proceeds on themselves. Their determination to pre-
~vent their children inheriting anything except misery
amounted to a mind disease—the disease of pur-
poseless malignance which possessed Daniel Quilp.
They left not one public work that wasn’t mort-
gaged for anything between its full value and twice
its value. Many had no value at all because they
yielded nothing. Others had less than no value because
the interest was a dead loss requiring large contri-
. butions out of revenue to pay working charges. The
biggest were purposely made almost useless because
the Australian fathers hated one another, and in-
vented diverse railway gauges to prove it. That
there were no other such haters in the world their
own public works testify. The effect was to leave those
who came after them practically defenceless. The
children have now either to abandon these useless
railways and still pay for them, or reconstruct on a
vast scale and so pay for them twice over. And
even this is only a small part of the great sum
total of the fathers’ devilment.
The cowardice of the Australian fathers from the
beginning of self-government to the end of public
credit was beyond all words. The hare and the
Bengali were emblems of valor compared to them.
They never paid when they could owe. They never
went straight when they could go crooked. They
never faced a liability when they could borrow and
pass it on to posterity; so that the son could say
truly that it would have been better for the world
if the old man had never been born. They were
Shirk incarnate and Dodge in exCelsis. Yet the
pride which they took in their self-reliance and other
good qualities passed the pride of monkeys—or of
gods.
Their idea of happiness lay in working the fewest
possible hours for the smallest possible number of
days, and doing the least possible work in those
hours; also in going on strike on the least provoca-
tion.
They were great pleasure lovers, these Australian
fathers. No nation ever devoted so much time,
money, dishonesty and blasphemy to the business of
watching a brainless animal with an ignorant curs-
ing dwarf of artificial construction on its back run
round in a circle while the shopman or clerk (soon
to go to gaol leaving his family destitute) put his
employer’s money on the tote. Its other national
game was two-up.
The politics of the Australian fathers consisted, in
some notorious States at least, apart from pawning
the children, in making lying promises and calling
each other bad names. Many of those who followed
the business were as morally crooked as the jockey
and as mentally deficient as the horse. There was
no qualification for politics except loudnesK of voice and
density of hide. As in the race game, they went in a
circle to no good purpose and with the worst inten-
tions. As in the two-up game, several were gener-
ally up on their feet swearing at once.
The aggregate and typical Australian father died
as he had lived. Having used up the best of the
minerals, sold the best of the public land and
blewed the proceeds on self-indulgence—having pawned
all the assets twice over and borrowed like any other
debased creature on his son’s future and his
daughter’s honor, he made a will in which he lavishly
bequeathed to them the boundless natural resources
of the country. Then he passed hence in an odor
of shame and was buried on credit and went to
his own place, which couldn’t be worse than he
deserved.
And these few remarks don’t nearly exhaust
the things that might be said about the Aus-
tralian father—the person who was born
heir to a continent and wasn’t fit to make
a creditable show as heir to a pot-house. It
is difficult to say that he possessed in the
aggregate one good quality, though otherwise
he was fairly right.—Yours etc., Henry
Horsecollar.
+ .
The Digger Who Is Still Fighting.
Permanent pensions are granted to ex-
A.I.F. soldiers for the loss of an eye or a
limb or for impaired capacity. And on
quitting a sanatorium the T.B. subject gets a
special pension of £8 a fortnight. How-
ever, in six months’ time, when he again
goes before the Pensions Board, it may be
reduced, or cut out altogether. Now, most
people have a prejudice against employing
consumptives, and in the Defence Depart-
ment, and throughout the Public Service,
the prejudice holds as powerfully as it does
anywhere else. Apart from which there are
very few jobs that the just-discharged T.B.
subject is fit to hold. “Arrested” patients
are recommended to seek light work in the
open air. This is work at which it is often
impossible to earn a living wage, and yet
the T.B. is advised that he needs a greater
quantity of nutritive food than the able-
bodied man. Without either private means
or a permanent pension, how is it possible
for him, under existing conditions, to reach
the dietetic scale prescribed by medical
authority? If a permanent pension of £2
a week, equivalent to that of the man who
has lost a limb, were granted, it would enable
the sufferer to live in decent comfort, facili-
tate home treatment, which is strongly
advised, and prevent the spectacle of haggard
and weary-hearted men reporting again and
again to sanatoria for treatment. It isn’t
much, after all, for Australia to offer, con-
sidering all that these men have given for
Australia.
More and more evidence is available that
Bolshevism is no mere political device, con-
tent to hold its own country and apply itself
to its own people, but is a religion which
hopes to devour the world. Despite all
official reticence the evidence that it main-
tains a subsidised press leaks out. There
was the episode of the London “Labor”
paper and the £75,000 contribution from
Moscow ; and there was also the cablegram
which described Soviet Russia, published
in Sydney, as no mere private venture, but
the paid organ of an alien Government. The
Polish war came to pass because Poland
found itself being honeycombed by Soviet
agents from over the border, and it had
either to smite the combine which sent the
agents and make it withdraw them or else
be eaten. The Soviet Government now owns
the largest conscript army in the world, and
is out to eat kingdoms. A good part of
Persia is in its hands, and the other day the
old Mohammedan State of Bokhara, on the
Afglian-Indian border, fell with a crash. It
tried hard to keep out of war, but war came
to it. The local army, a mere 11,000, for
Bokhara hasn’t gone in much for militarism,
was quite insufficient, and the Red horror
fell on the capital. Now Afghanistan, next
door, is alarmed, and is shoving its Peter
THE SIN OFFERING.
“And they shall send him away by the hand of a fit man into the tcilderness. And
the goat shall bear upon him all their iniquities unto a land not inhabited; and
he shall let the goat go in the wilderness. And the fat of the sin offering shall
he burn upon the altar.” —Leviticus xvi.
Simonoffs into gaol, so that treason may
not take its troops in the rear. A great
trouble is that, thanks to the advance of
science since Mohammed’s day, the germs
of a new religion can be telegraphed ahead
and patches of infection may spring up in
unexpected places. There may be a patch
in Australia; and that danger illustrates the
necessity for increasing the powers of the
Commonwealth. The Convention to revise
the Constitution ought to be hastened.
+
The wail of one whom The Bulletin
knows as a good Australian: —
Australia is hated in the Islands. The white
population of the British Solomons is approximately
800 ; the native population is estimated at 150,000.
The haters are the dominant, articulate section of
the whites; the rest of the population, white and
black, have no opinions either way. Island society
falls roughly into four divisions: (1) official; (2)
commercial; (3) mission ; (4) native.
(1) The Administration is vehemently English,
and favors continuance of the present system of
Colonial Office control.
(2) A section of the commercial population
adjusts its views to those of the officials. Another
loud section is constitutionally anti-Australian, be-
cause it envisages Australia as the Land of the
Labor Party. Underlying all it nourishes the com-
forting idea that, if it can “dish the Commonwealth,”
it can, through its local Legislature (yet to be
established), introduce Asiatic labor into the Solo-
mons. It clutches at the Crown colony idea, because
that signifies Asiatic labor.
(3) The missions are neutral. They remember that
Australian control in Papua produced Murray, who
out-Macgregors Macgregor, the darling of a gener-
ation of missionaries.
(4) Contented Black Brother hasn’t the faintest
idea of what all the argument is about. Yet, curi-
ously enough, he may be dragged in to “self-
determine” the question.
The native is pictured as a proud, sensitive soul,
acutely resentful of the White Australia policy. As
I write, a few yards from my verandah sits a typical
Solomon chief, scrofulous and contented, chewing
betel-nut. For all he knows Australian control is
a new brand of “bullamaeow.” Yet he, amongst
others, is represented as being opposed to these islands
being placed “under the control of the Common-
wealth.” It is laughable. Native political opinion
does not exist. Anything that masquerades as such
should be closely examined. Which way the native
jumps depends entirely upon who engineers the per-
formance.
The Senate, which rarely appears aught but
a needless expense, commended itself to
public favor last week by rejecting the
Government’s amusement taxation. Trea-
surer Cook practically admitted that in
withdrawing the tax from all theatre and
picture-show tickets “not exceeding 35.” in
price, the Government would be presenting
entertainment-mongers with an annual sum
of from £200,000 to £250,000. He was not
so impolitic as to put the case in that scan-
dalous form. He said that lurid bellodramas
at the cinematograph houses, and the tri-
vialities of musical comedy, were of an
“educational” nature, and should therefore be
untaxed entertainment as far as the “poorer
classes” were concerned. The Senate
declined to endorse such an insult to com-
monsense. Little that is offered to the
public on stage or screen is educational,
whilst all, or almost all, the patronage en-
joyed by picture showmen comes on the
“under 35.” tickets, and is provided by all
classes alike. It is certain, too, that the
least wealthy pleasure-seekers spend as
much as they can afford for indoor enter-
tainment, so that any remission would, by
enabling them to buy more tickets per
annum, be merely robbing Government
Peter to enrich picture-showman Paul.
And Paul, as he does not attempt to deny,
is already being unduly benefited by in-
creased Government expenditure—notably
from the millions paid by way of war
bonuses to the Diggers. By the Budget
proposal the showmen stood to get a bit
both ways —firstly, through the increased
taxation of the public to meet the bonus to
soldiers, and secondly through the partial
remission of the amusement tax. Whether
the reverse is final or otherwise, the pro-
posal cannot be too long remembered to the
discredit of the Government.
What is a necessary commodity within the
meaning of an Anti-Profiteering KillV To
one man it may be more essential than any-
thing in the world that he should be
well defended in a criminal court. To another
that his suit should be put for him in a
civil court by a certain Equity or Common
Law specialist, as the case may be. Or,
anyhow, that the other side should not
have the benefit of that particular man’s
services. A K.C. in the second set of cir-
cumstances often marks his brief at an
exorbitant figure (which means that his
juniors overcharge proportionately) and
does not turn up at the hearing at all. He
pockets some hundreds of pounds sterling
with a clear conscience for doing practically
nothing but deny himself to the other side.
To turn to a humbler sphere of piracy, suc-
cess, in the case of many a job-hunter, may
depend on that air of sober neatness which
is suggested by a clean pair of boots. A
boot-shine costs 3d. (and in some cases 4d.),
where it used to be Id., despite the fact
that the necessary materials have not greatly
increased in price. In a shine-shop the sub-
ject gets for his money about a farthing’s
worth of polish absently dabbed on by a
degraded little boy, who is too busy giving an
imitation of a chatty turf habitu<s to produce
results as regards-the footwear. As a mat-
ter of fact, everything which is on sale, from
professional experience to fish-bait, is to an
extent a necessary commodity, or there would
be no market for it. Measures like N. 8.
Wales’s new McTiernan Bill, by concen-
trating on the trader and leaving the fee-mer-
chant alone, condone some of the most impu-
dent extortion that is practised in the com-
munity. But who expects to see a barrister
tear down the rates in his own profession, or
a Laborite interfere with the working-man’s
claim to be allowed to charge what he pleases
for his services?
Up in the extreme top of Australia the agile
Jap is multiplying exceedingly. He can’t
legally own pearling vessels, but he can own
them in the names of European proprietors,
the European having perhaps a one-hundredth
interest in the partnership. And he has
almost wholly got hold of the working end
of the business, for the colored British diving
subject from Papua is an unorganised, un-
lettered, slummocky creature, and is in deadly
fear of the little military alien. Legal pro-
tection isn’t worth much on a small boat far
from shore. The white diver hardly counts,
and the immigration laws are hard to en-
force against people who arrive in little
vessels and land anywhere on lonely shores
and melt brownly into the landscape. The
root of the trouble is that there is no State
Government authority nearer than Brisbane,
about 1448 miles from the extreme north of
Queensland, and Brisbane is too busy with
its loan troubles to count. And the Federal
authority, if it removes to Canberra, will be
about 2500 miles away. The big political
estates of Queensland and Westralia are quite
unmanageable. And when, for lack of head-
quarters supervision, the Jap gets a vested
interest in the North it will be no use saying
vaguely to the League of Nations that he
didn’t get it honestly. Probably even the
census won’t reveal the size of the trouble.
The wise alien takes to the bush on census
day.
♦
This is from the S. M. Herald :
Mr. Hughes has informed Major Mabr, M.P., that
he will give consideration to the question of issuing
Canberra bonds, similar to those issued for the
building of the City of Guernsey, and thus afford
the people of Australia an opportunity to invest
their money in the building of necessary administra-
tive and Parliamentary offices at Canberra. It is
claimed. . . .that if this is done it will not be neces-
sary to impose further taxation, as the bonds will
be paid for from the profits derived from the land
and buildings at Canberra.
There is no City of Guernsey. The people
of the little Channel island (its total area
is 15,654 acres), being exempt from Imperial
taxation and Imperial liabilities, are ; well off.
In a fertile spot with over 1000 industrious
French folk to the square mile, a resident
population of affluent Britishers and a never-
failing stream of summer tourists, a little local
taxation goes a long way, and they decided
some years ago to issue notes for a few
thousand pounds to build a market. By
charging dues on those who traded in the
building—and many of the Guernsey staples
such as tomatoes and potatoes are best dis-
posed of in a market —the administration
was speedily able to take up the notes. And
that is the genesis of the mythical building
of the City of Guernsey. The episode has,
in any event, no relation to the case of a
thriftless race w r hich is not accustomed to
pay off its public debts, and which now talks
of raising £3,000,000 or £5,000,000 to con-
struct a city in a drought area. Canberra
has absorbed about a million sterling
already: it yields no interest on this sum;
and its railway isn’t paying. In fact, unlike
Guernsey, it grows neither tomatoes nor
tourists, and it never will.


A strong, virile nation needs strong, virile
tasks on which to bend its energies. The
Iron and Steel Industry opens up such a
field of endeavor for Australian Manhood,
providing work that develops and fosters
self-control, initiative, stamina and force
of character.
The Australian
Iron and Steel
Industry
would give employment at Australian rates of pay (if
all the Iron and Steel goods imported into Australia
were made by our own people) to not less than
30,000 MEN,
who would earn over
£5,000,000 per year.
POLITICAL
POINTS
It was in 1912 that' Australia bought
itself a bouquet and a halo and decided to
be the only country on earth which gave the
baby, rich or poor, £5 at birth without the
slightest assurance that baby would ever
benefit by a penny of the money. In fact,
the old man might drink it and, with all
that liquor in him, be moved to wallop
baby’s mother. Since then this and
Pecksniffian country has added about £2O of
peace debt per head to the national burdens
—n o t inevitable
war debt, but the
borrow'ngs of shirk-
ing folk who pawn
the infant’s whole
life and its soul
because they would
rather be haunters
of racecourses in
the most amuse-
ment-ridden land
on earth than do
hones t. serious
work. There is no
doubt about the
baby getting the
debt, however little
it sa w o f the
bonus.
Young MR.
McTIERNAN,
the N.S.W.
Attorney-General,
who introduced the
astounding Pro-
fiteering Bill last
week.
As The Bulletin goes to press it looks
as if the Queensland election will leave the
Government seven 6r eight seats to the good
and 7000 or SOOO votes to the bad. But in
a country where there are 05,000 surplus
enrolments these little drolleries are bound
to occur.
The N. S. Wales Parliament paused in
its campaign against profiteering to consider
the new postal rates. To meet the Federal
increase of 33 J per cent, it added ;»0 per
cent, to the M.L.A.'s stamp allowance.
Which done, it resumed discussion of the
bill which proposes to gaol the profiteer for
five years.
Premier Lawson’s proposal to reduce the
number of M’s.L.A. from 65 to 60, while
increasing their salaries from £3OO to £4oo,
reads like a bad jest. At present these
garrulous persons, many of whom are quite
unnecessary, cost the State £19,500 a year
and Lawson would “economise” by increas-
ing the amount to £27,000. A genuine re-
former would reduce the importunate band
to 42. which is twice the number of Victoria’s
Representatives, and use the Federal elec-
toral machinery ; by such means the salaries
might be fixed at £5OO apiece and even then
there would be a large saving. But. of
course, that wouldn’t accord with the dignity
of a “sovereign State.”
The brightest thing the Senate has done
for a long while was its rejection of the
hill by which it was proposed to abolish a
large part of the amusement tax, at serious
loss of revenue, while adding to taxes on
the proceeds of hard work. In tins horse-
haunted, moke-bedevilled land it is good to
find somebody who doesn’t put entertainment
first and work nowhere.
In the face of a storm of protest Sydney
City Council has abandoned, or suspended,
the proposal to spend £75,000 of the rate-
payers’ money on an undeveloped and much
condemned coal lease, said by experts to be
worth possibly £5OOO. The same fate has
befallen the scheme to spend two or three
millions on a new street and pay a gigantic
commission to an outside firm of architects
for the job, though the Council has capable
salaried officers for that sort of work. But
as the men who devise such schemes are still
in office the abandonment this time doesn’t
make it a whit less essential that Judge
Ewing should be appointed to inquire into
the reasons, if any, for such unseemly jests.
.Federal Opposition-leader Tudor is a
down-trodden figurehead these days. When
the Judiciary Bill was before the House of
Iteps. he pleaded for an adjournment so that
his subordinate, Ryan, could attend and
move an amendment which he apparently
lacked the vim to move himself. Ryan, it
seemed, was getting his big Federal salary
under bogus pretences, for instead of doing
his Federal business he was away in Queens-
land on State election work. The appeal
being refused, Tudor moved the amendment
himself in an apologetic manner, of which
his ancestor with the half-dozen wives would
have been ashamed. v
Queensland’s Theodore Government faced
the electors on Saturday with sill the force
of a gerrymandered set of constituencies be-
hind them. There are 65,000 more persons
on the State roll than were found in Banana-
land by the Federal authorities nine months
ago. All the anti-Theodore constituencies
are populous: many of the safe Labor seats
are sparsely inhabited; some of them ab-
surdly so. Thus Burke, with something over
2000 voters, returns one Theodoreite, and
Bulimba, with six times as many, is repre-
sented by the same amount of Oppositionist.
Eleven Labor seats possess under 5000 elec-
tors apiece, and six anti-Labor constituen-
cies have over 9000 apiece. It is good busi-
ness from the standpoint of Ministers yearn-
ing for a favorable breeze to the pleasant
haven of office, but it doesn’t so much as
resemble democracy. Despite all advantages
the majority which T. J. Ryan secured be-
fore he left in pursuit of safer, if bigger,
game has been diminished by over 50 per
cent. Is it too much to assume that, given
what the lads whom Mr. Theodore helped to
keep without reinforcements used to term
a “dinkum go,” his Government’s majority
would have slumped the full 100 per cent,
and a bit over?
From the Federal Gallery:—
Keep your eye on Norman Makin, M.H.R.
Assuming that he retains the confidence of Hind-
marsh (S.A.) he is bound to receive consideration
when the next Labor Ministry is formed. Though
only an infant politically, he has already made an
impression by his earnest manner and sober thinking
when pacifism, Bolshevism and other isms are
frothing around him. He is darkly suspected of a
desire to fit himself for a portfolio: he crouches
over vast tomes when he might be improving his
billiards or exposing his powers of discourse for
the benefit of a line of charmers in the Speaker’s
Gallery. He has a fine speaking voice and an
agreeable face; and his habit of previously pre-
senting the Prime Minister with a typescript of a
question he wants to ask him in the House shows
a regard for Hughes’s infirmity that other members
would do well to imitate.
After Andrew Fisher had finished filling
up the Territory with bureaucrats and brass-
hats (the kind that are put on wooden
heads) he took the billet of High Commis-
sioner and proceeded to fill Australia House
with the same sort of expensive live meat.
Yet people who call there say that, after
leaning up against the polished counter of
the million-pound building for 20 minutes,
with 20 officials in full view, it is
necessary to throw the inkpot (charged to
loans) to attract attention. The Territory
railway almost threatened to be a payable
proposition until the Commonwealth took it
over and people like Fisher got busy and
put on 170 officials where there used to be
91. In like manner the Queensland lines
were a highly-payable proposition until
Ryan, of the same party, got at them and
changed 10,689 employees into 14,518, and
then had to cut down the train mileage
because the big staff couldn’t keep up the
struggle as the small one did. Labor poli-
ticians are too garish—too Asiatic in their
love of big retinues. They can’t hear of a
mouse being seen in a Government office
without appointing a senior cat and \ junior
cat and a probationer cat to run after it,
also an assistant cat.
The well-meaning and impassioned
Maloney, M.H.R., can't bear to see an oppor-
tunity to spend money go a-begging,, and
would pawn the boots of posterity to the
third and fourth generation to do a strange
dog a kindness, provided he was an immedi-
ate dog. One of the wrongs he has taken
up is that the baby bonus isn’t paid to
Asiatic women, tin* ones he has in view hav-
ing been born in Palestine, where they run
to many colors. Palestine is Asia right
enough, and it shades off into Syria and
Arabia, which is the oldest kind of Asia we
know of. and its people are largely Arab.
Still some Hebrews in W.A. have made a
THE PROFITEER.
O LD GENT: “Gimme ten pounds' worth o'
stamps, please!”
POSTAL CLERK: "Ten pounds’ worth! Bo
you really require as much as that, sir?”
OLD GENT : "No, I don’t. But I 'eard post-
age teas goin’ to he put up, so I thought
I’d get a stock in before the rise.”
fuss, and Maloney, though he has nothing to
do with W.A., rushed helter-skelter into the
breach. It would be a blessed thing if there
was one-hundredtli part as much desire to
start the baby of 1930 or 1940 with £5 less
debt (a bcnelit which would reach him or
her for certain) as to give £5 to the mother
of the baby of 1920. without the slightest
guarantee that it will get a penny of the
money.
John Iluxham, left as acting-Premier at
Brisbane, with the shipping difficulty to
nurse, found his arms full. The ukase went
forth some time ago that only eight hours’
work per day should be done at loading ships
-—not that each shift should work only
eight or even six hours, but that there should
be only one shift, and that for the remain-
ing 16 or IS hours there should be no work
at all, no matter what wages were offered.
This multiplied the waiting time by at least
three, while the ships’ wage bills and other
charges went on. In addition spasmodic
demands for special rates for this or that
kind of cargo were frequent, and there were
stoppages either till somebody was sacked
or till somebody who had been sacked was
restored. As a result the big overseas ships
stopped going to Brisbane. The Brisbane
wharfies say they acted under “orders” from
Melbourne, which is the place where Tom
Walsh hangs out. It is wonderful how many
people give “orders” for the control of this
alleged self-governing country.
From the storm-centre of an uncommonly
mild disturbance: —
The Victorian election campaign is proving
desperately tame. It looks as if Hayseed will win
11 seats and Labor 20 ; if this is so a Liberal
Ministry (possibly reconstructed) will continue to
rule the roost. A reconciliation between Peapock and
Lawson is talked of. In 1907 Alec joined Bent, who
had helped Irvine to oust him from the Premiei-
ship in 1902. By the pressure exerted by Bowser
and Clarke in 1913 Peacock was humiliated by
Lawson, but time brought its revenges; Bowser was
bowled out of the Ministry and Clarke was relegated
from the important Lands to the less-important
Works. Vic. politicians are a forgetful and forgiving
lot.' A study of the composition of Ministries for
64 years proves that. Meantime it has been decided
that as soon as the new Assembly meets a bill
providing for an increase of members’ salaries from
£3OO to £450 will be introduced and made retro-
spective to October 21, election day. And that, to
politicians with safe seats, is more exciting than the
possibilities lurking in a drab election.
“H.H.”: It is hereby suggested with
all seriousness that recent developments
make a wealth test for Labor members
about due. A Nationalist can be logically
either rich or poor, for he claims to represent
all classes if they will permit him to do so.
A Laborite professes to represent the poor
and toilworn only and to view the capitalist
as a deadly enemy. When he is a capitalist
himself, especially one
who made his money
by useless speculation,
by the heat and bur-
den of his jaw at the
Bar or as an employer
of wage-slaves, the sus-
picion arises that he
is a man of loud pro-
testations in the
enemy's camp because
there, and there only,
has he a oimnce to
arrange that the club
of Fate shall fall on
the other fellow's capi-
tal—not on his. Either
that or he lacks a
sense of humor. In the
Ryan-Theodore vocabu-
lary any member who
doesn’t sign the Labor-
pledge is a rich oppres-
sor and an enemy of
the poor, even if he
owns nothing but his
salary and hi.s debts.
On the other hand a
man who does sign up
may be worth £BO,OOO
or ‘£loo.ooo ►and still
be a victim of capital
and one rightly strug-
gling to be free. I
think every National-
ist Government should
enact that when a
Laborite’s private in-
come reaches, say,
£6OO a year 'by the
income-tax returns, the
fact should be an-
nounced. Then he
should be expelled and
disqualified as a Labor
member ‘ till his tax
schedule improves, and a poorer man should
have a chance for his seat. This system
should be applied to candidates also.
Harwell, Premier of S.A., told a country
meeting lately that not more than two
Nationalist members had a chance of getting
back into the Assembly at the next general
election. Pressed in Parliament to say who
they are, exactly, he replied airily that he
would not particularise, having been too
generous in the estimate. “I don’t really
think any of them has a reasonable chance,”
he said, “and only two of them have any hope
at all.”
The present Queensland Government came
into power five years ago, chiefly on the
assurance that it would make things better
for the wage-earner. Since that date tax-
ation, which, in practice, either directly or
indirectly, hits the wage-earner ten times as
hard as it does the rich, has been trebled.
Theodore scrambled back to office last week on
the promise, chiefly, that he would fleece the
rich and hang the profiteer. Riel* men have
been fleeced, of course, and profiteers hanged.
An inoffensive baker was one of the first
men to decorate a lamp-post during the
French Revolution, and fleeced Russians are
common features of many European capitals
just now. The catch in the scheme is that
no State can enjoy these gratifications with-
out anarchy; while anarchy would mean the
collapse of Theodore’s comfortable job. So
nothing is likely to happen in the coming-
three years but a steady emission of windy
threats and a steady rise in taxation and the
cost of living.
War wheat has involved the S.A. Govern-
ment in a sea of troubles, the latest of
which is a million-and-a-half claim made by
Mark Block, of Melbourne, against the
Wheat Harvest Board. The argument is in
the preliminary stages in S.A. Supreme
Court. It is alleged that the Government,
“by their sei'vants and agents, negligently
and without reasonable or proper care or
protection” allowed the 1916-17 harvest to
be damaged by weather and mice.
SLEEP SOUNDLY, HANS! —A FREETRADE
LULLABY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Berliner Tageblatt fears the establishment
of woollen factories in Australia on a huge scale.
It is strange to see a journal which is ordinarily
well informed taking so seriously the grandiose
scheme of the Commonwealth Bureau of Commerce
and Industry. The Commerce Bureau s fanciful
project is not likely to produce a serious competitor
in the wool-manufacturing trade of the world loi
many years to come, if ever.” —Melbourne Argus
Sleep soundly, Hans!
The lads who met and licked you on the Somme,
The square-jawed fighters who, by Menin-road,
Showed the embattled hosts of Christendom
That men can learn war’s arts without a goad,
Our veterans
Are home again, the task they tackled done ;
And, by some transmutation of the soul,
The trait that irked you most in them is gone —
That gift they had of pressing to a goal.
Sleep soundly, Hans !
Sleep soundly, Hans !
The stories that your fighting-men brought back
Of the Australian’s readiness to rise
To any sort of crisis, and his knack
Of turning Fate’s worst blows to good were lies.
The fatal bans
Of lack of nerve, initiative, force,
Stand ever in his light and always will.
That is to say when he's at peace, of course —
And he will be at peace for some time still.
Sleep soundly, Hans!
Sleep soundly, Hans!
The men who schemed and strove behind our front,
Improvised armies, poured forth endless stores,
Called ev’ry bluff you tried, matched ev’ry stunt,
Have long since landed on Australian shores.
They have no plans
To hold the prize you could not win in France ;
No hope, when your offensive opens here.
Where you met strength you will find hesitance,
And for high-handed daring abject fear.
Sleep soundly, Hans!
N.S.W.
J. D.


‘CRUSH THE MONSTER!”
“The Freetrade press expects substantial assistance from the Country party in whittling down Hughes’s moderate Protectionist Tariff.”— Nows item.


The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
PRODUCERS of
LEAD —Soft Pig, Refined Assay (Bar and Granulated), Super-refined, Corroding,
Chemical and Antimonial.
SILVER —Refined (Bar and Granulated).
SPELTER —(Sold through Zinc Producers’ Association Pty. Ltd.).
ZINC DUST —(Stold through Zinc Producers’ Association Pty. Ltd.).
Also of LITHARGE —(Assay and Industrial). BEARING METALS,
TYPE METALS, ZINC OXIDE and LEADED ZINC OXIDE.
BUYERS on Specially Favorable Tariffs of
SIEVER-FEAD ORES, EEAD DROSSES and ZINC DROSSES.
HEAD OFFICE: COFFINS HOUSE, COFFINS STREET, MEFBOURNE.
H. L SHACKELL. Manager.
T. H. SEARS. Secretary.
Smelting Works and Refineries: Port Pirie. South Australia.
Coke Works: Bellambi. New South Wales.
BRANCH OFFICES:
SYDNEY:
35 O’CONNELL STREET.
R. N. KIRK, Agent.
LONDON:
8 & 9 AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2.
A. J. SMITH.
London Manager and Secretary.
ADELAIDE:
62 BEOOKMAN BUILDINGS.
C. S. STOKES. Agent.
KOBE, JAPAN:
ORIENTAL HOTEL,
H. B. HARKKR.
Representative.
REGISTERED BRANDS:
“AUSTRAL”
;bhas:
u VnvHisnv dHe»
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting: Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HIGH-GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification,
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon, Chrome Vanadium, Acid-
resisting or other Alloy Steels of every description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
(Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London),
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W.
Branch Works in course of erection at West Guildford, Perth, W.A.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Adelaide Steamship Co. :
Net To'Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1908.. £82,850 10 p.c. = £50,718 £269,112
£202,870 transferred to capital .. 66,242
1909.. 84,112 10 p.c. = 62,129 21,983 88,225
1910.. 85,462 10 „ „ 71,004 14,458 102,683
19.11.. 67,221 10 „ ~ 71,004 98,900
1912.. 51,852 8 „ „ 56,804 93,948
1913.. 49,874 3 „ „ 21,301 28,573 122,521
1914.. 63,754 6 „ „ 42,602 21,152 143,673
1915.. 67,903 6 „ „ 44,227 23,676 167,349
1916.. 226,531 10* „ „ 81,380 }
Voted to Provident Fund, £60,000 j ’
1 v l7 e‘ ) 26 °’ 00 *. P-°- 7„ rn non f 132,500 395,000
Voted to Provident Fund, £50,000 J
1918.. 207,504 10 p.c. = 77,504 130,000 525,000
1919.. 152,452 15 „ ~ 116,257 36,195 561,195
Co. reconstructed. Assets written up.
£1,550,090 transferred to capital.
1920.. *88,713 3J p.c. = 87,192 1,621 47,521
•Subject to remarks hereunder.
As usual, the track between the old .and new
cos. is not clearly defined ; and in this case
the course is fogged by recent sales and pur-
chases of steamships and properties, by the
blending of fixed assets with cash assets in
the published accounts, and also by portion
of the past year’s trading figures having been
included in the reconstruction shuffle. Share-
holders agreed to the proposal to reconstruct
early in February, and the last line of the
table gives results for only the few months
since the new concern took over, the profits
shown being merely those presented by the
directors, and do not include, as on former
occasions, the visible additions to various
reserves, which in this instance are not
ascertainable. The directors had very little to
say concerning the basis on which the recon-
struction was to be effected: they merely
told shareholders that they were allot-
ting three fully-paid £1 shares in the new co.
for every one held in the old concern without
disclosing the secrets of their magic. Twelve
months ago’there were these visible reserves:
Insurance account .. .. .. £240,000
Reserves for repairs, renewals, replace-
ments, etc. . . . . . . . . 320,000
P. & L. balance (excluding final divs.).. * 1,195
£501,195
At the first balance of the new co. only
£21,000 remained to the credit of the in-
surance account and only £25,000 in the re-
serve for repairs, renewals, etc., and there
may have been appropriations to these ac-
counts from the first profits of the new co.
At the outside there were visible reserves
of £561,195 plus the profit earned between
June 30, 1919, and the date of recon-
struction to help the issue of £1.550,090
of bonus scrip. Roughly, visible and partly-
visible reserves could not have provided
more than £600,000. In that case, appa-
rently about £950,000 of internal reserves
were unearthed to provide the balance of
bonus scrip. Most of this came from the
writing-up of assets, though possibly, since
the amount due to sundry creditors at the
latest balance was only £250,199 compared
with £468,137 12 months ago, something
may have been provided by reserves which
had previously been shown in the accounts
as liabilities. The extent to which assets
have been written up is not apparent: dur-
ing the year the s.s. Willochra (7784 tons),
Allinga (2242), Morialta (1848) and
Rupara (1368) jvere sold, and a 7200-ton
cargo carrier, the Baldina, was purchased.
Considerable surpluses over and above old
book values no doubt resulted from the sale
of old steamships ; but though these steamers
were converted into cash and at the latest
balance the register totted up 8909 fewer tons
than 12 months ago, the new co.’s balance-
sheet shows steamers, hulks, lighters, plant,
freehold properties, wharves, shares in other
cos. and Government securities (but not
including War Loan) worth £2.211,149,
compared with £1,246,394 when the last
accounts of the old co. were presented. From
this the popt-mortemist can conclude that
the value of fixed assets was understated
in the accounts of a year ago to the extent
of considerably more than the paid capital.
On what basis the new valuations were made
cannot be guessed ; and that is a point of
considerable importance to the investor. It
is hardly likely that the hard-headed crowd
in the Adelaide S. S. Board-room have taken
anything like recent inflated values as the
basis for re-appraising assets; since the war
ended they have on a couple of occasions
explained to shareholders that a construction
programme was being delayed because they
believed that new tonnages would be less
costly if they waited.
The outstanding feature of the Adelaide
S.S. reconstruction is the emphasis which
it gives the “Wild Cat’s” oft-repeated asser-
tion that the accounts presented by ship-
ping cos. are generally of little value. Here
is an instance of a management which 12
months ago declared in its published ac-
counts that against fixed assets with a book
value of about li million (but now claimed
to be worth about a million more) it was
necessary to hold almost a quarter of a
million in an insurance reserve and £320,000
in a reserve for repairs, renewals, replace-
ments, etc. Now, however, only 9 p.c. of
the old insurance reserve and only S p.c. of
the amount formerly held for repairs, re-
newals and replacements are held for the
purposes for which it was claimed they had
been appropriated. In other words, the
management admits that it understated
profits in the past, and that this page’s
habit of including the additions to these
reserves as so much additional net profit
over and above that disclosed by the direc-
tors was justified. But even after crediting
profits with these additions, actual net earn-)
ings were greater than shown in the intro-
ductory table, for meantime, it is now con-
ceded, considerably more than ample had
been allowed for depreciation. But, as
already explained, since no idea can be
obtained as to how appreciated values have
affected the re-appraisement of assets, it is
impossible to gauge the extent to which
profits hidden in past years have helped the
recent bonus issue.
The inclusion of an unspecified amount of
Government securities with the fixed assets
destroys the value of any examination of
the cash position, but this comparison can
be given for what it is worth: —
1915. 1919. 1920.
Liquid assets.. .. £153,341 £719,372* £619,159*
Liabilities (excluding
Provident Fund) .. 302,095 408,224 250,199
Excess liabilities .. £209,354
Surplus assets . . £251,148* £368,900*
*Exclusive of Government securities lumped with
fixed assets in balance-sheets.
Prior to the war the co. had been making
considerable additions to its fleet, with the
result that at June, 1915, there was a con-
siderable excess of liabilities over find above
liquid assets. Since then, in addition to
the steamships .sold during the past year,
the Grantala (3055 tons), Wollowra (2031),
Innamincka (2501) and Winfield (3215)
have passed to new owners, and Fritz and
Davy Jones bagged the Warilda (7712 tons)
and Echunga (4589). The cash received
from sales and insurances, together with
accumulated profits, has, in five years,
effected an improvement in the liquid posi-
tion of £578,314, phis the amount of Gov-
ernment securities included with the fixed
assets. Of course, the liquid surplus of
£308,960 will be deeply cut into when the
directors set about replacing tonnages.
The Castlemaine Brewery and Quin-
lan, Gray and Co., Ltd. (Brisbane) :
Added to Nominal
July. Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1907.. £5,025 5 p.c. = £3,855 £1,170 £16,206
1908.. 5,106 5 ~ „ 3,855 1,251 17,457
1909.. 6,369 5 „ „ 3,857 2,512 19,969
1910.. 7,478 5 „ „ 3,857 3,621 23,590
1911.. 7,329 5 „ „ 3,960 3,369 26,959
1912.. 15,667 7i„ ~ 5,989 9,678 36,637
1913.. 10,057 10 „ , 7,920 2,137 38,774
1914.. 18,672 10 ~ ~ 7,946 10,726 49,500
1915.. 15,303 10 „ „ 8,003 7,300 56,800
1916.. 12,039 10 „ ~ 7,830 4,209 61,009
1917.. 12,308 10 ~ „ 7,832 4,476 65,485
1918.. 15,392 10 ~ „ 7,848 7,544 73,029
1919.. 18,356 10 ~ ~ 7,861 10,495 83,524
Transferred to capital, £37,500 46,024
1920.. 17,985 10 p.c. = 10,638 7,347 53,371
This brewery’s shareholders are apparently
not much concerned about the outcome of the
no-liquor agitation. Twelve months ago paid
capital was £78,669; it is now £149,434.
But £37,500 of that £70,765 increase repre-
sents capitalised reserves. The directors
issued 100,000 new 12s. 6d. shares, 50,000
fully paids being distributed as a bonus to
shareholders and a further 50,000 paid to
2s. 6d. going to those prepared to pay up the
balance of 10s. per share. To old hands
these bonus issues represent merely a partial
replacement of capital lost when the Queens-
land boom cracked over 20 years ago. There
were then 150,000 shares of 255. each, most
of them paid to 205.; but when, in 1902,
some idea of the extent of losses on pro-
perties and sick accounts could be ascertained
one-half of the old capital was jettisoned.
Apparently the writing down of assets was
not adequate, for disclosed profits were, very
slender for years after the reconstruction.
By 1912 old troubles had apparently been
straightened out, and profits suddenly leaped.
Despite soaring costs, this brewery did well
during the war years, for the Queensland
Labor Ministry did not restrict trading and
the huge war spendings helped the flow of
beer. Still, costs have mounted so rapidly
that disclosed profits are less than those for
the year prior to the war. Possibly the co.
is doing better than the directors admit; they
may be making provision for contingencies,
though the accounts give no hint to that effect.
The balance-sheets do not even show how
gross profits and expenses have moved, nor
how much is being set aside for depreciation
one line alone gives what the directors de-
clare to be the year’s profits before meeting
taxation. For 1910 £22,920 of profit was
disclosed, taxes absorbing £4165; for the
past 12 months the profits ,are shown at
£30,376, with taxes taking a bite of £11,991,
the latter including the tax on the recent
issue of bonus shares, AlO p.c. div. would in
future call for practically £15,000 per annum,
and on the average of recent years that
would leave a very small margin of surplus
profit. Apart from the influence the activities
of the Cold Tea party may have on the
Trade, it is questionable whether in the near
future Queensland beer■ is going to sparkle
as it has recently. The continuous splashing
of tens of millions of borrowed money by the
Commonwealth Government is coming to an
end, and since the money-lenders have refused
Premier Theodore’s proffered lOU’.s there
seems little likelihood of the artificial
prosperity being maintained by State
borrowings.
This comparison shows how the balance-
sheet figures have moved over two five-year
periods and during the past 12 months:—
1910. 1915. 1919. 1920.
Capital .. .. £77,147 £78,287 £78,669 £149,436
Mortgages .. 10,200 16,283 8,700 4,500
Liabilities .. 52,906 79,732 68,853 83,053
Brewery, freeholds,
plant, etc. . . 90,965 130,033 112,862 126,205
Hotels . . . . 15,700 26,450 36,662 37,711
Stocks .. . . 25,798 29,515 27,231 57,756
Book debts .. 31,050 42,880 52,974 65,282
Cash, etc. . . 2,355 6j332 13,949 10,178
The £33,267 of new cash-paid capital got in
during the past year has not lightened the
load of debt: all liabilities now total £87.553,
or £lO,OOO more than 12 months ago. There
has been further outlay on fixed assets, and
more costly customers’ supplies and larger
and more expensive stocks have put a strain
on finances. Incidentally, no explanation is
offered to explain why the book value of
stocks should have more than doubled during
the past year. With the fixed assets shown
above is included an unspecified amount of
goodwill, which is the reason why reserves
in the first table are treated as nominal only.
Wright, Heaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
carriers, produce salesmen and suppliers of
station goods:—
Writ
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonuses. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Jan.,’l4.. 8,532 10 p.c - 5000 3532 68,649
July,’l4.. 7,670 10 ~,, 5000 2670 71,319
Jan.,’ls.. 8,662 10 ~,,5000 3000 662 71,981
July, ’15.. 8,203 10 ~,, 5000 1000 1203 74,184
Jan.,’l6.. 9,121 10 ~,,5000 4121 78,305
July,’l6.. 8,141 10 ~,,5000 3141 81,446
Inner reserves disclosed, £14,195. . .. 95,641
Jan.,’l7.. 8,526 10p.c.= 5000 3526 99,167
Reserves transferred to capital, £25,000. . 74,167
July,’l7.. 8,125 10 p.c.= 6250 1875 76,042
Jan.,’lB.. 10,460 10 ~,,6250 4210 80,252
July,’lB.. 13,677 10 „ ~6250 7427 87,679
Jan.,’l9.. 14.663 'lO „,, 6250 8413 96,092
Cash bonus (20 p.c.) distributed, £25,000 71,092
Premium on new shares, <-5000,
dropped into internal reserves.
July,’l9.. 13,067. 10 p.c.= 6562 6,505 77,597
Reserved for taxes, £BOOO . . . . 69,597
Jan.,’2o.. 25,878 11 p.e.=»= 7563 18,315 87,912
Reserved for taxes, £5OOO .. .. 82,912
July,’2o.. 23,275 12 p.c.= 8250 15,025 97,937
During the recent severe drought this old
carrying and station-supply co. was kept
busy meeting the exceptionally heavy de-
mands for fodder; and as the last two
entries in the table show, this activity
resulted in very fat profits. For the 12
months to July 31 last £49,153 of profit
was disclosed, equal to a return of over 35
p.c. on the paid capital of £137,500. The
co. probably did even better than shown by
the accounts, for the management long ago
developed the habit of making provision “for
any contingency likely to arise,” and only
six months ago the directors admitted that
they had a stocking into which they had
stuffed over £40,000 of undisclosed profits.
Now that a good season seems assured, and
there are prospects of high prices for pro-
ducts, very few of the accounts which the
management lias been protecting should be
doubtful.
Another view of how well the co. has
done over the past five years and during the
past 12 months is given by this comparison
of the balance-sheet figures:—
1915. 1919. 1920.
Liabilities .. ..£54,912 £Bl,BOl £108,317
Premises and plant .. 18,427 21,770 23,838
McCulloch Co 25,000 25,000 25,000
Book debts . . . . 96,706 181.106 185,621
Stock 48,727 59,279 71,976
Cash and Govt, securities 44,735 13,180 55,693
Net assets expanded from £178,684 to
£218,534 between 1915-19, and to £253,812
during the past year. But in the earlier
period £14.195 of internal reserves were
brought to light, £12.500 of new capital was
got in, and £25,000 of reserves accumulated
prior to 1914 was distributed as a cash
bonus to shareholders. After share-
holders regular 10 p.c. divs. during the four
years to 1919 the co.’s position was visibly
strengthened by £38,155 ; disregarding the dis-
tribution of old profits. During the past
12 months, after handing out a little in
addition to the usual 10 p.c., there has been
a further visible improvement of £35,278.
Over the seven years covered by the first
table no less than £107,375 has been dis-
tributed in cash to shareholders, £25,000 of
bonus scrip lias been passed out, and mean-
time, including the £14,195 of hidden profits
brought to light in 1916 and the £13,000 set
aside for taxation, reserves have expanded
by, £45,820. Paid capital is £137,500 in
55,000 shares of 50s. each, and after the
latest distributions to shareholders there
were net assets with a book value of 90s.
4d. to represent each, share, besides which,
as the management admitted six months
ago, there are internal reserves equal to
at least another 15s. per sjiare.
The Chamber of Manufactures Insur-
ance Ltd. (Melbourne) :
Bonus to Re-
Sepr., Profits. Dividends. Policy-holders, serves.
1915. . £9,699 . 10p.c.=£2372 £4,311 £3,016
June,
1916.. 6,727 10 „ ~ 2625 2,438 4,680
1917.. 23,506 10 „ „ 3000 13,307 11,789
1918.. 21,917 10 „ 3000 16,475 14,231
1919.. 21,118 10 „ ~ 3237 15,557 16,555
1920.. 28,762 10 ~ „ 3920 18,835 22,502
This office is only six years old, but Vic.
manufacturers have proved enthusiastic co-
operators in insurance, and during that
short period their co. has achieved a remark-
able record. A couple of years after the
concern had commenced writing policies the
Associated underwriters decided on an all-
round reduction of workmen’s compensation
premiums —• workers’ accident insurance
had previously been in the experimental
stage—and the business thereupon became less
profitable. The Chamber of Manufactures
Insurance fell into line with the new rates,
and, in consequence, the 1918 and 1919 pro-
fits were smaller than those for 1917, though
a considerably larger volume of business
was handled. The introductory table, how-
ever, does not state the full extent of pro-
bable profits, nor does it give the full mea-
sure of actual reserves at the balancing
dates. . Besides the £22,562 shown in the
last column, at June 30 last there was
£37,582 in a reserve for unexpired risks,
and some of that may prove to be actual
profit earned on premiums collected during
the past year. The amount now in this re-
serve for unexpired risks is only £5700 less
than the total claims met during the past
12 months.
The rapid progress made is shown by the
growth of gross premiums: 1917. £43,182:
1918, £74.292; 1919, £96,990; 1920,
£124,724. The underwriting experience has
been as follows :
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Claims. Exes. Ratio. Ratio.
1915. . £31,907 £6,027 £3490 18.9 p.e. 10.6 p.c
1916* 29,670 9,881 2638 33.3 „ 8.9 „
1917.. 43,182 14,497 3444 33.6 „ 8.0 „
1918.. 55,011 21,310 6603 38.8 „ 12.0 „
1919.. 69,053 34,921 7593 50.6 „ 11.0 „
1920.. 86,468 43,283 9044 50.0 „ 10.4 „
*Nine months.
The heavier loss rate for the past two years
compared with earlier terms is explained by
the reduction of rates mentioned above,
nevertheless, the experience of the past two
years indicates that about only one-half of
the pet premium income is required to cover
losses. The feature of this co.’s operations,
however, is its remarkably low expense rate,
policy-writing, office expenses, rent, taxes,
fire brigade charges and all other charges
taking only £lO Bs. of every £lOO of net
premiums, which is about one-third of the
cost usually incurred by insurance offices
which have to maintain large staffs of agents
to coax in business. As a result the favor-
able loss experience and the low cost of
handling business, no less than £34,141 of
last year’s net premium income of £86,468
was available for strengthening reserves and
for providing rebates to policy-holders. From
the beginning the co. has paid regular 10 p.c.
divs. on capital put up by shareholders; but
funds have accumulated so rapidly that in-
terest earnings therefrom easily provide the
dividend requirements. The latest 10 p.c.
called for £3920; interest and rents brought
in £5542. After payment of the dividend
the management had a surplus of £35,763.
Of this £18,835 has been distributed among
policy-holders—3o p.c. of workmen’s com-
pensation premiums being rebated, 10 p.c.
of marine and motor-car premiums, and one-
fifth of public risk, personal accident and
sickness and other premiums. The reserve
for unexpired risks was. strengthened by
£8375. £4975 was tacked to general reserves,
the Chamber of Manufactures was handed
£3546, and the balance of £32 was held in the
Profit and Loss account. During its six years
the co. has rebated £76,892 to its policy-
holders and the parent Chamber’s funds have
benefited by £12,782.
After the latest distribution of divs. and
bonuses the Chamber of Manufactures In-
surance showed total reserves of £60,144.
Paid capital is £39,390, so altogether there
were funds amounting to £99.534 —ample to
meet claims over 2\ times last year’s losses,
not taking into account current incoming


If your house is wired for electricity, and you are
having trouble with your door-bell because of ex-
hausted batteries, you are being annoyed needlessly.
The famous little Wayne Bell Ringing Transformer
will ring your door-bells with the same current that
lights your house, ahd will need no further attention
after once being installed. Come in and see it
demonstrated. Australian General Electric Company,
corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Syd-
ney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne.—Advt. [4
* • * * *
The man who leaves little to be desired may be
either ,a paragon of virtue or a burglar. The roof-
ing that loaves little to be desired is Adamax
Asphaltum Roofing. It is a twentieth-century roof-
ing, absolutely unaffected by time, rust, atmospheric
acids and chemical fumes. The most serviceable
roofing for bungalows, factories, garages, farm build-
ings, etc., costing less than the price of iron and
less for freight charges. For further particulars
write to William Adams and Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney. Also at Melbourne, Brisbane,. Perth
and Adelaide. —Advt. [4
Pioneer Wood Pipe.— Copy of letter received
from Elmore Waterworks Trust, Elmore, 28th Feb.,
1919: “Dear Sir —Yours of the 19th inst. in regard
to pipes supplied to this Trust. The pipes have
been and are still in every way satisfactory, and are
quite suitable for our requirements. The cost of
maintenance during the six years of service has been
nil. If we were putting in any further pipe lines
your firm would certainly be favored with our orders.
Yours truly (Sgd.), S. Southam, Sec.” Send for our
illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Company Ltd. (H. 0.), Burns Bay Road, Longneville,
N.S.W. Contractors to all State Governments. —
Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Ilassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * •» «
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Cliallis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Mix your concrete with Leplastrier’s Patent “Multi-
mix” Concrete Mixer. Sizes from li to 54 cubic
ft. per batch. Drain your roads with concrete pipes
made with “Leplastrier’s” “Quickset” Pipe Moulds.
All Australian-made by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.,
Head Office,' Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
D. J. McClelland, M.G.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. (London); Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work; contractors advised; railway work.
90 Queen-street, Melbourne.— Advt.
* » * *
T. 11. Palmer, R.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street. Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.” — Advt.
* • * •
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s k OertlingS
Balances, AVeights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B. Selby k Co.,
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt.
HOT WEATHER MEANS THIRST.
THIRST SHOULD CALL FOR PURE WATER.
PURE WATER DEMANDS GERM-PROOF FILTERS.
The ABBOT
is the Australian Germ-proof Filter
par excellence.
All our filters are now fitted with the “Abbot” Improved Candle, which is practically unbreakable.
Descriptive bulletin mailed on request.
GUTHRIDGE LTD., Io ' ,2Qeo ( clt^!lydn C e a y mperdown
Makers also of the “NEW RAPID” Filter for Aerated Waters and Butter Factories.
.To be had of all Dealers. If your store cannot supply you, write to the manufacturers.
premiums. Funds are well placed: public
securities and cash accounted for £85,841 of
total assets of £163,815 at the balance.
couple of years ago, in conjunction with the
parent Chamber, £65,117 was put into pre-
mises, but there is still a £37,100 blister on
the property.
Shareholders in Melbourne Theatre Royal
Pty., Ltd., have struck an unexpectedly rich
patch: three theatrical concerns have been
bidding for its theatre, most of which it
holds on a long lease —some recent small
additions are freehold. The Rickards?
people offered to take a seven years’
option over the show-house and other
assets, £2 per share (£96,000) to be
paid in five yearly instalments from the time
the option was exercised. J. C. Williamson,
Ltd., scored by offering £2 ss. 6d. for each
£1 share (£109,200) ; £20,000 cash is being
passed over at once, and the balance, carrying
6 p.c. p.a., is to be met by five annual in-
stalments. The paid capital of the old
Theatre Royal Co. was £48,000, and at June
30 last there were reserves of only £6453.
As 5 p.c. p.a. divs. have been the best share-
holders have had over many years (only 21
p.c. was paid until 1915) they have made an
excellent deal. In fact, there is almost an
old boom-time flavor about the transaction.
“Ex-Banker”: Flinders-lane and York-
street are agitated by the action of the banks
in declining to issue foreign letters of credit
except to favored customers. This action
has paralysed many small and new, particu-
larly new, firms of indentors and manufac-
tuners* agents who got into the business
uuring the’ importing boom. As they cannot
get letters of credit on London they must
remit cash _ by cable or draft, and that
hinders business. The big balances to the
credit of Australian banks in London at
June 30 seem to have dwindled away
through Commonwealth Government draw-
ings there to pay floating obligations. When
W. A. Watt makes his promised explanation
it is likely he will say he got heart-failure,
stoppage of thought and speech and general
paralysis when he found what the Australian
Government owed the British Government.
Very likely the British Treasury pressed for
payment of long overdue millions, and the
Australian, banks had to find the money and
stop obliging their own clients. Another
reason given in Flinders-lane for the local
banks stopping credits is their desire to
force the big speculating houses to disgorge
their big stocks of silks and cottons now
choking the bonds and stores. Jap silk
bought at 13s. in vast quantities cannot be
sold at 65., so the big speculative firms must
hold their unsaleable stocks, pay storage and
save duty. It is believed the Customs
Department has connived at the action of
the banks in forcing gamblers in silks and
cotton goods to take them out of bond and
pay duty on the prices at which they were
declared. That does not interest the public
so much as the fact that importing has at
last been checked, and that prices are likely
to fall considerably, for a time, at any rate.
* * * *
North Broken Hill, Ltd.—This co.’s
latest accounts cover a period of 12 months
instead of six as formerly; but owing to the
long-winded strike they have very little to
record. Twelve months ago the management
took credit in the balance-sheet then pre-
sented for “the estimated balance still to be
received on account of products of previous
terms.” That the. valuation was a low one
is demonstrated by the fact that, though no
productive work has since been done, “mine
products” provided £68,144 of the past year’s
revenue. Interest and divs. brought in
£37.264, so gross reverfue amounted to
£105,408. After meeting mine maintenance
and all administrative charges a profit of
£25,729 resulted. Adding to this the £1498
unexpended portion of new plant appropria-
tions and £9039 balance of Profit and Loss
brought forward, there was £36,366 avail-
able. Of this £25,000 was set aside for new
plant expenditure during the current year ;
but the period was barren of divs., “it being
the practice of the Board not to make a
distribution unless the amount required has
been eai-ned since the previous payment.”
Shareholders can have no complaint about
the div. drought: during the previous four
years an amount equal to times the paid
capital (heavily watered in 1913) had been
distributed, while this shows how the liquid
position was strengthened between 1914-19,
the movement of liquid assets and liabilities
during the past year also being given:—
1914. 1919. 1920.
Assets apart from Krone
and plant .. .. £240,615 £880,555 £842,986
Liabilities .. . . 29,390 186,375 167,354
Surplus assets .. £211,225 £694,180 £675,632
The surplus of more or less liquid assets at
June 30 last, was thus £18,548 less than 12
months previously. During the year the
management has been pushing ahead with
plant extensions, and altogether £38,502 was
expended during the period. Just before the
strike began the arrangement under which
Amalgamated Zinc (De Bavay’s) treated
the co.’s zinc tailings expired, and as tile
North B. 11. had secured the rights to the
processes of Minerals Separations and De
Bavay’s, Ltd., it set about erecting its
own zinc-flotation plant. It should be ready
by the time production is resumed.
Paid capital is £600,000, and, as shown
above, in addition to the mine and plant,
there are liquid assets whose book value ex-
ceeds all liabilities by £675,632. These
“liquid” assets, however, include interests in
other cos. more or less dependent upon the
Barrier for their existence. The North B.
H. at June 30 had a £200,000 interest in the
Associated Smelters; held £120,000 £1 fully
paids in the Electrolytic Zinc; had taken up
20,000 £1 shares in the British Australasian
Lead Manufacturers Pty., Ltd.; had a
£lO,OOO interest in the Barrier Roaster Co.;
and minor holding's in other concerns. Since
the accounts closed the directors have taken
up a further 30,000 £1 shares in the Electro-
lytic Zinc, giving the North B. H. a one-
fifth interest in that co. As to the mine,
there are still 2,600,000 tons ore available
for stoping above 1400 ft., but the main shaft
is down 1770 ft., and crosscutting for the lode
below 1400 ft. will continue when the miners
decide to get to work again.
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia is
nut with a prospectus seeking the £1,100,000
of new capital which is to complete the
equipment of the 100-ton-per-day plant at
Itisdon (Tas.). The co. has a nominal capital
of three millions, half in 8 p.c. £1 cumulative
participating prefs., the other half ordi-
naries. Of the ordinary capital £750,000
has so far been issued for cash, Amalgamated
Zinc (De Bavay’s) having subscribed
300,000 shares, while North B. H„ B. H.
South and the Zinc Corporation have taken
up 150,000 shares each. A further 350,000
ordinaries have been issued in exchange for
the Mt. Read and Rosebery mines, though
these shares are deferred as to divs. until
July, 1925. Of the 1,100,000 8 p.c. cum.
prefs., which are to share point for point
with the ordinaries in any distribution over
and above b p.c., 900,000 are available for
shareholders in the four promoting cos. in
the proportion in which those cos. subscribed ;
shareholders in the old Mt. Read arid Rose-
bery, and, in turn, its sponsor, Mt. Lyell,
have the right to subscribe 150,000 between
them; while 50,000 shares are available for
the staffs of the various cos. associated in
the venture. The prefs. are to be paid
to 7s. 6d. on allotment, the balance being
got in within 15 months. When the
new issues are completed paid capital will
total £2,200,000, leaving the co. with 400,000
prefs. and a similar number of ordinaries in
reserve.
The Electrolytic Zinc’s general-manager,
H. W. Gepp, is optimistic concerning the
future of Risdon. After running a small
experimental plant successfully, in January,
1918, a 10-ton per day plant fulfilled all
expectations as to costs and quality of pro-
duct ; for some time it has been turning out
15 tons 99.95 p.c. zinc daily, and with the
assistance of portion of the new plant has
lately speeded-up production to 20 tons zinc
per day. The construction of the first half
of the 100-ton-per-day plarit is now well
under way, and by the close of 1921, by
which time the Speck Government has con-
tracted to switch on a minimum 15,000 h.p.,
this unit should be in active operation. A
year later and the complete plant should be
at work, utilising 30,000 h.p. and produc-
ing 100 tons zinc daily. Higher wages and
more costly coal in older countries, Gepp
considers, assure the Speck industry, and
he regards £3O per ton London as a “con-
servative and safe” price on which to esti-
mate profits. On this basis, when the com-
plete plant is in operation, he looks for a
profit, after providing for depreciation and
amortisation, of at least £413,000 p.a., equal
to almost 19 p.c. p.a. on the £2,200,000 paid
capital.
* * * *
From an experienced oil-driller: —
Boring at Roma (Q.) was conducted by American
drillers, and a grave mistake was made by drilling
the hole “wet,” that is, full of water. Gas was
struck last year, but the only indication was a
small quantity brought up by the bailer. Had the
hole been drilled dry, just enough water being
admitted to mix the drillings, the gas • would
have had a free exit and its volume could have been
estimated. As it was, the gas strata appear to have
been passed and a water bed struck, so that when
the gas was finally obtained by bailing the well, and
thus reducing the back pressure, a great deal of
water came with the gas.
Government Analyst Henderson has ascertained the
petrol content at 1.22 pints per 1000 cubic feet of
gas, but the work was conducted under great diffi-
culties, the temperature of the oil in the absorbers
being far too high, owing to lack of ice. The final
fractional analysis showed hardly any pentane or
hexane, which are the chief constituents of commer-
cial petrol, but gave about 50 p.c. of octane, which
looks as if the absorbing oil had missed the lighter
fractions. The large percentage of octane seems
to prove the nearby existence of petroleum, as the
heavy gases flo' not generally migrate far from the
oil itself, whilst the lighter fractions travel through
the gasrocks for many miles. There have been
numerous reports of the striking of gas in many of
the bores sunk for artesian water, but the wet-hole
method suppresses all indications. Petroleum gas
has been found in the Longreaeh district at Ruthven
bore, and in the Blackall district at Springlea. This
indicates that there is an immense field to be ex-
ploited, but under different conditions to those
obtaining in other countries.
* * * •
An old Mt. Lyell miner arrived in Mel-
bourne lately from Wyndham (W.A.) with
glowing news of a petroleum find between
Turkey Creek and the Negri River. Yet
this wise and experienced prospector did not
bring one atom of evidence of the existence
of oil. lie did not have one molecule of
bitumen nor one electron of the rain-
bow-colored film in his bluey. In fact, he
had nothing to prove that oil existed. All
he had was an official letter admitting he
held a prospecting search-license to look for
oil for 12 months over several thousand
miles. This prospector was honest
in believing petroleum had been found at
Negri River, yet he admitted never having
seen any. lie was not trying to badak any-
body, because he had no reports good, bad
or indifferent. All which is merely written
as a warning. There are several substances
that look like bitumen or asphalt and even
show petroleum on assay, but do not indi-
cate that oil would be found. There is only
one convincing evidence of the existence of
petroleum, and that is to produce the petro-
lejim itself.
From Hampton Plains: There are no
indications of White Hope becoming a big'
mine. So far development gives promise of
lenses of ore of fair value for some length
along a sheared plane. Mutooroo’s cake is ■
dough, and Celebration developments have'
been disappointing. It is now doubtful
whether a treatment plant will ever be
erected on the latter property. If Daly has
his way. Golden Hope will be tacked on to
the adjoining Hampton Area co.’s blocks and
merged into a larger venture.
Geologically the country around St.
Ives (W.A.) is all that could be desired, but
the reports that have been spread about the
field to date should not be taken too seri-
ously. So far only one large co. with a
staff of capable and reliable experts has
taken up options on the field. This is the
Bullfinch, which has the Victory, North, six
miles from St. Ives, under option. But there
are indications that that show is not turn-
ing out very well. Dorrie Doolette is also
reported to have acquired several options for
the Bullfinch on the north end of the field.
A good deal of ground there has been shep-
herded, and several leases have been jumped.
The Idough, between Ives and the Victory
North, has also been optioned to Doolette.
Here the gold appears to occur in ironstone
bands, and a little stuff has been treated
going over 1200 oz. to the ton.
* * * *
“Fine Gold”: When the Hampton boom
was at its height I was shown a small lot
of stone studded with gold which the hawker
declared he had obtained at a depth of 30ft.
in the workings of an old mine at the back
of Boulder. He offered me a third share
for £lOOO. But as I had helped* to gather
the same specimens from the surface of
another field 20 years previously, and knew
the man from whom they had. been borrowed,
I politely declined the offer.
* * * *
Itoebourne copper (W.A.), formerly known
as the Whim Well, is considering means of
treating its ores locally instead of shipping
the stuff abroad. During the past year
operations have been hampered by labor
troubles, but the position is easier now.
Mine prospects are also declared to be
encouraging. The co. has acquired an
interest in an adjacent silver-lead show of
some promise.
Vic. Mines Department continues to
dwindle in personnel and in importance. The
latest to resign is Director of Geology Hyman
Herman, who goes to a £lOOO-a-year job at
Morwell. The “direction” of geology does
not appeal' to be a convincing recommenda-
tion for the management of the briquetting
and by-products department of the huge
brown-coal undertaking ; rather the job would
seem to call for a top-notch chemist with
experience of brown-coal practice. W. Barag-
wanath, of Ballarat, has taken Herman’s job
to help Providence to direct the geology of
Victoria.
* * * *
The cobalt lode near Selwyn/in the Clon-
curry district ( Q.), is being actively de-
veloped. The lode has been opened up to a
depth of 80ft. and a strong ore body, in
place's sft. wide, is going underfoot. This
shows no diminution in size compared
with the outcrops, while values are still up
to the mark. The show appears to have a
promising future, provided there is a market.
* * * *
“P.R.”: The metal gougers of North
Queensland will fade away if the treatment
charges at the State smelters continue soar-
ing at their recent pace. Years ago I heard
Comrade Theodore, then an A.W.U. organ-
iser, liken the old Chillagoe co. to “an octo-
pus squeezing the life blood out of the
worker.” Now his own pet institution hugs
the poor metal gouger far harder when he
has ore to sell. The old co. used to charge
30s. for smelting, and ore going 6 p.c. copper
and Goz. silver would give a net return of
about £4 per ton, with copper in the
eighties and silver at 2s. Gd. per oz. Now,
with copper close on the century and silver
at us., and the State smelters demanding
555. per ton, this grade of stuff would return
about as much as Comrade Ted got when
he tapped London lately. Had the old co.
at Irvinebank put its charges up to the
State’s present figure, there would have been
a revolution. No wonder the gougers’ young-
sters in bygone days used to pray, "Cod
bless father, mother and John Moffat.”
* * * *
Federation tin (Tas.) has its 40-head mill
on the way to Zeehan. The proposed mill
site is three miles from the terminus of the
narrow-gauge Comstock railway, and the co.
is pressing the Speck Government for a
rapid extension of this or other railroad to
its mine. The Works Committee reported
favorably on the extension, but the delay of
the Hoskins Bros, in connection with the
Heemskirk iron proposition has held up the
proposal. A Government geologist is to have
a look at the Federation to check Lewis’s
estimates of tonnage and grade before the
extension will be finally decided. In the mean-
time, development of the mine is costly and
slow, though generally results are considered
satisfactory.
* * * *
Mt. Jasper copper (Tas.) is undergoing
still another share inflation. This time a
prospective shipment of silver-lead ore is the
reason for putting out new shares. The co.
is operating a three-inch lode, allegedly high
in silver.
A syndicate of 400 £lO shares has been
formed to develop the new find of albertite
at Barn-Bluff (Tas.). A yield of 100 gals,
of oil to the ton has been secured, which
compares with Latrobe’s average of 40 gals.
The syndicate has secured rights to 9000
acres.


THE HOLD-UP.
“The Premier (Mr. Theodore) said the intention of the Government was to raise another £2,000 000 between now and Christmas from the private resource of capitalists. If necessary nto one penny-piiece would go in dividends to capitalits in London, if
it were required for the development of Queensland.- He did not want to confiscate their profits. The money would be raised by voluntary loan if they subscribed it, and if they Mi not, the government was going to have it."-Telegram from Mckay (Q.),
“The Financial Times, in a leading article headed ‘Queensland, a Pirate State,’ denounces Mr. Theodore’s proposals as shameless robbery and open pillage. Mr. Theodore is conveiting a British State into a piratical community"-Cable
JOHN BULL (to the driver): “Whether it was your fault or not, you’ll get the blame for this, you know.”


THE
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees.
New South Wales: Victoria: Queensland
The only Trustee Company having
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Hon. H. Y. Braddon,
M.L.C., F. B. S. Falkiner, James Kidd, W. H.
Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan Sinclair.
V. a. WATSON, JOHN MAIR,
Assistant Manager. Manager.
i
2
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don't allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
Lamson Co., m
M -r Collins Street. Melbourne.
\a> a h L P i octor - 200 H 'S h St.. Christchurch
W.A.-H. Little &■ Co., 851 Hay St., Perth
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARHING ROOF GARDEN.
Management F. T. CHEKSEMAN.
mm
plug slice
THe
finest
TOBACCO
In
■
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed,
“EDGEWORTH”
R. TOWNS & CO., Sydney Agents. [4
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
John Fiirphy, who passed off the stage
lately at Albeit Park (Vic.), wtut 78, in-
vented the Furphy watercarts, which he
used to turn out at his foundry at Shep-
parton. Some of them saw service in
Egypt and on Gallipoli. John’s brother
Joseph lurphy. was a versatile writer of
Bulletin prose under the sobriquet of
Tom Collins. He died in Westralia.
E. R. Waite,, director of the Adelaide
Museum, might have
made a good diver if
he hadn’t gone in for
dry bones and things.
Years ago he did a
fair amount of dress-
diving at different
tunes, going down 10
fathoms to get a
shark’s egg at Sydney.
And surface collect-
ing trips have taken
him into Central Aus-
tralia with a camel
team, round New
Britain and other
tropical isles, and
down to Macquarie
Island, the Aucklands
and other places near
the Antarctic Circle.
J. E. MACKEY,
Speaker of the Vic.
Legislative Assembly.
Old Prof, YYatson, who gave up his life-
work of teaching surgery at Adelaide Uni-
versity last Christmas, always was a
traveller, and sometimes used to need a
polite reminder to come back to his job when
vacation was over. His leisure is now well
occupied. This year he visited every island
m the Gulf of Carpentaria, where lie found
natives unmixed with a white population,
and yet showing strong signs of missionary
influence. He is back in Adelaide now, but
means to go north again as soon as he can.
, r D F-. I W -, L - Christie, who died aboard the
Moghilev, in the Gulf of Suez, recently, was
the first student to take the medical degree
• Uni. That was M. 8., Ch.B.
in 1887, and in 1890 the young man from
YVarepa earned the right to affix M.D. on
the brass-plate. After practising at Outram
and Milton he drifted to London for further
work ’ and added F.R.C.S. and
b.R.G.S. to the growing appendage. Chris-
tie s next shift was to Borneo, where he
investigated tropical diseases, but the war
found him at the Royal Naval and Military
Hospital at Harwich, where he toiled like a
beaver for Jack and Billjim. In fact, he
worked too hard, and he was nursing a shat-
tered constitution when the end came.
State Treasurer George Ritchie, of S.
Aus., was born at Goohva, near the Murray
mouth, and spent a lot of time trading on
the Murray and its _
tributaries, a job
that his father was
at before him. Old
Captain Ritchie
was one of the
s e v'e n Scotsmen
who brought the
p a d d 1 e - steamer
Lioness from Liver-
pool to Melbourne
in 1853. George
Ritchie’s longest
voyage took 15
months. It was
from Goolwa to
Bourke and back,
but for most of the
time his craft was
tied up in a hole
on the Darling
waiting for the
river to rise. In
the meantime he
cut timber with a
little portable saw-
milling plant, and
practically rebuilt
all the top part of
his hooker.
MAKIN, M.H.R.,
one of the new
Labor members
from S. Aus.
p, ?- j on i v t^r ° Australian politicians that
Ldward P. chummed up with were John
1 iheliy of Queensland, and John Storey, of
"a - One night the Ma-State
a? -ttrnved late at a Princely function, and
t " e 7 Heir-Apparent commented on it. “You
strolled mas if you didn’t care a hang,’.’ he
?* ld A Jc £ a , a bit ruffled, retorted that
ne wasn t brought up among princes and
didn t know anything about the etiquette of
the business. Edward smiled. “Well
wau ey V he aid ’ “ the eti( l u ette of it is this l
While Am here, you come when you •
well like, stay as long as you well
like, and go home when you well like ”
John was so gratified that he put Eddy on
to a stone-moral for the Runts’ Flutter at
Robbery- Park.
boast at Brisbane that
ceitain of his critics had been saved by the
Tcfwi ,P ait v “manuring- the sile of
I landeis hurt Blue-and-whiters in other
constituencms more than it did Mick, lie
T l lent?n^S a n e i by a dece . nt majority against
Lieutenant-Colonel Currie, who stood as a
t p lla - IISt ' Currie distinguished
himself at I ozieres as a major in the 26th
Battalion when the 7th Brigade got its
knock. Buried by a shell explosion, he was
dug out and borne back to the lines, but he
struggled out to No Man’s Land again and
carried on.
MX.C., who has persuaded
Inminister to promise an examination
0 j ¥> e country between Camooweal (Q )
and Broome (W.A.) to decide whether it is
worth a railway, is another cadaverous
wreck from the north. lie belongs to Marble
rSni„ri hl w H! a ,? tually the hottest part of
tropical Westralia, and goes to scale at
i a nno >ne ' i Siace , March he ha s traversed
10,000 miles of the roughest country in the
Commonwealth in the interests of the rail-
way on which he has set his heart. A warm
friendship has sprung up between Hughes
and the mountainous hustler from the tro-
pics, although, physically, they are an ill-
assorted pair.
Macquarie Street” recalls a lady’s flat:—
lo one familiar with the neighborhood in which
Mrs. Bamberger abode it is entertaining to read
of £6OOO presents being supplied by hypnotised ad-
mirers to the erring beauty who has lately been
filling an English court, and who gallivanted in
Marylebone under the name of Miss Williamson. I
can speak feelingly on the subject, since I lived in
the same pile of flats, and we were constantly
tioubled with foozled Lotharios staggering against
our door, and asking thickly for a lady of the name
of Jones or Smith. No. 28 Twyford .Mansions,
Marylebone-street, Marylebone, was not a locality
where presents of £6OOO grew on trees. It was
a God-forsaken street at best; the hurdy-gurdy man
haunted it in the afternoon, and on Sundays the
winkles-and-eress man marked it for his own. The
caretakers of the Mansions, which contained about 50
flats, were kept busy whistling for taxis to take the
fair tenants for an airing. 1 hear that whistle in
my dreams.
As there were basement flats, it was necessary to
ascend six or eight steps to reach the ground floor.
The front door was placed sideways to allow room
fox a narrow stone staircase that went up a couple
of storeys. Each flat consisted of three rooms and
a kitchen, and a coal-hole somewhere in the bowels
of the earth where the caretaker stowed our coal.
We bought “kindling” (not the play) and beer at
2s. 6d. per dozen at the merest apology for a grocer’s
shop just opposite No. . 28. Perhaps' Mrs. B. dealt
there. A dining-room faced the street, and there
were two dark bedrooms at the back, a tiny kitchen,
and a Lilliputian bathroom. Furnish it as you
liked, it could never have been made attractive. We
were strangers in London,' and getting tired of hotel
life in Bloomsbury and Bayswater, we had struck
this unsavory neighborhood, only to be kept awake
at night by drunken orgies and shindies, and the
nois* of foreign oaths and breaking glassware.
Marylebone-street was handy to the swell medical
streets, Harley and Wimpole, while the Wallace Col-
lection, the Steinway Hall, the Queen’s Hall and
the Times Book Club were within easy walking dis-
tance. A short stroll landed you into the busiest
part of Oxford-street, and the Marylebone-road was
just round the corner. But all this talk about the
flat at No. 28 being the resort of a fashionable deini-
mondaine and real-life vampire fails to thrill. St.
Johns Wood, if you like; but not Twyford Man-
sions.
7 Clements, the tonic man, who died
lately at feydney, left just on £90,000. He
a ,. subl j rbi ? n Chemist addicted to botany,
he hud sold Ins tonic business to
HlHott Brothers some years ago he threat-
ened to ride his hobby-horse hard. But he
tired, and wrote hardly anything - beyond
Pnr°r C vTTv Ua iT Abol ' iginalities ” I)ar ‘ for Ti,k
o i ¥ e was a st wkler for exacti-
imtif W 5 en f h ? wa ? running the business
rniself a furious letter would reach the
wbo dropped an apos-
nn Jid H to , U . e, nents Tonic” ; and when he
passed the business on to others he bound
them down to the use of certain prescribed
• t mt the quality of the goods that
tamed his name might never be endan-
gered by chemicals in unsuitable g-tass.
Cr. Swanson, who will be Melbourne’s
next Gaud Mayor, has the proper Whitting-
tonian qualifications for the job. He is the
son of a carpenter, and started in the same
me hnnself. Then he and a brother bS
tame contractors on a small scale, and
over P Hm f- bn^? e they were building
ovei the Burdekin River (Q.) was sweat
away by. a flood and they had to do R ail
vear Bllt , th ? y carried on, a nd last
year the Mayor-elect paid upwards of ten
thousand to the tax-collector. Among the
in bS brothers have on hand are the build-
extensions? OtS 0tS C °" eSe ** the University
Ambrose Patterson, the Melbourne artist,
had a commission to paint a large portrait
R ff tia 8' Uls hed citizen of whom he found
it hard to. collect trustworthy material
artist° S waf%pTi-r' e ra f e and poor - ;i nd the
aitist was settling down miserably to do
the a Wlth a J ,u ' st Portrait made in
the time of Adam. Meanwhile, news of his
f“, ch m had S°t about, and one afternoon a
man called at the studio. “You are
wanting a model for Blank, I believe’’’
rii S sH f n 1 T PJ he for you.
111 sit foi five shillings an hour. I can
give you Blank’s face exactly as he looked
when drunk.” “But I want the man when
sober, said the artist. “How about that’”
MR r d V>? V a ed , hlm °?’ “ Xo ma tter at
Sen wbe?'° y MW h ° W B1 “ nk lookcd
Gone west at Bream Creek (Tas.), after
1 4 . years of it, Thomas Dunbabin, whose
father came from North Wales to be one
of the earliest settlers in those parts. At
the mature age of 10 Thomas, junior set
snri a ooT ln f n, ri 1 di u S ?° miles for the ’mail
and back, and he - had been going ever
since. In the days when rowing in the
Speck meant pushing a whaleboat over anv-
thing up to 10 miles, he owned and nulled
the bow oar in the Marie Laure, which was
never beaten. He swore by whaleboats, and
owned one up to the day of his death.
Hector Lamond, M.H.R., served his time
as a comp, on the Carcoar Chronicle, then
lun by Mrs. Mary Boyle, who afterwards
married Charles Launcelot Garland. Gur-
Lmcl lepiesented Carcoar in the Legislative
Assembly from 1885 to 1891. Hector’s
tather looked after horses for the contractor
who built the first section of the Blayney-
Cowra railway; when that job was over
Lamond pere opened a store in Harris-street
Hector was the first secretary of the Eureka
1.0.G.T. Lodge at Carcoar.
Billy Hughes is not the first Prime Min-
ister who has had a four-hoofed aristocrat
named after him. There used to be a stud
bull caHe d Edmund Barton in Northern N
S. Wales.
Rees, formerly a member of
ic. s Dreary House, and a Senate candidate
last election, managed to get into the con-
gress at \ ersailles when Millerand was
elected President of France. But, then, he’d
oiim liis way into the coronation of the
jieat Llama of Thibet. Rees can speak
, rench like a native, having learned the
language when he Was an apprentice to a
chemist in Paris.
Captain George Wilkins, who is off to
feouth Georgia and the adjacent Antarctic
regions as second in command of the Cope
expedition, has seen as much of the world
as the next one. Find-
mg Adelaide too lively
for him, he went to
the Balkan War,
where he was made
prisoner and put 'in
eight days without a
bite of tucker. Next he
tried Arctic America,
and helped Stefansson
to investigate the
“blond Eskimos” and
other local freaks.
After filling in his
spare moments in
Siberia, round the
Black Sea, in South
America and other
places, Wilkins went
to the Front, where
photographing and fly-
ing, both of the
dare-devil variety, kept
him busy. Since then
he has tried to fly to
Australia, and, un-
warned by that ex-
perience, he talks of
’planing to the South
Pole.
MAJOR BAIRD , the
Vic. Minister who is
having a stiff fight on
the old battlefield of
Ballarat.
Gone west, Peter McCrimmon, who drove
the first mail between Birdsville and Win-
ton (Q.). lie Avas a native of the Hunter
River district (N.S.W.), and was a digger
before he took to coaching. Another old
W. Queensland mailman who has left the
box for ever is Willi a m John Mitchell, of
Charleville. He was in the service of Cobb
and Co. for M 5 years, finishing up as road-
manager. Like nearly all the pioneer coach-
drivers Peter and William reached rare old
ages.
J. S. Kerr, who captured the Enoggera
seat (Q.) from Labor last Saturday, had
better luck than his old chief, Currie, Avhose
adjutant he was at Zonnebeke on October
4. 1917. Kerr’s substantial defeat of W.
F. Lloyd Avas one of the surprises of the
election. Like Currie at Brisbane and Field
Smith at Maree —they both polled well—he
described himself as a Soldier-Nationalist.
Another A.I.F. lieutenant, J. F. F. Reid,
tried to win Oxley for Labor, but Oct. 9
wrnsn’t his lucky day.
A sturdy old battler went out Avhen Pat
Hickey died at Redfern, Sydney, aged 82.
He avus in the TJ.S.A. when the faint-hearts
were singing “Abraham Lincoln, what ’r’ y’
about .' 1 Stop _ the war, it’s all played out.”
Converting his depreciated greenbacks, he
made for N. S. Wales and tried his luck on
many diggings. At Gulgong in the grey
morning he saiv Larry Foley put a head
on big George Jackson for a £25 wager.
When the gold fever abated he selected land
20 miles from Mjidgee, but had no luck, and
took a boundary-rider’s job with G. H. Cox,
I' or a time Pat drove a coach between
Mudgee and Hill End. Though old in years
he piloted many a fresh young team down
Tucker’s Hill.
S.A. Government has appointed a
Surveyor-General—T. E. Day, lately Chief
Surveyor, Avith a wide experience of the
outer-back. Pethick, the retiring Surveyor-
General, explains that he resigned as a pro-
test against the low salary fixed for the job.
It carries with it various other duties, and the
work has greatly increased of late, yet
iuOu a year was all Pethick got. He Avaited for
the A-erdict of the new Reclassification Board
which shifted him to the £7OO scale, but he
decided he could “do better outside the ser-
vice, and without the unnecessary pinpricks.”
Concerning which the Public Service
Revieav of S.A. says that quite 40 civil ser-
vants have resigned lately for similar
reasons.
oioff' C l' £ L u 0n ’ who TT has joined the editorial
stall of Melbourne Herald, is probably the
youngest leader-writer in Australia Be-
ginning newspaper work on the Hobart
Mercury, he moved along to the Argus, for
which he wrote all manner of stuff, from
leaders doAvmvards. He even tried to dispel
the gloom of the Saturday supplement.
Years ago Dixon’s chief hobby was collect-
mg hundreds at cricket and high distinctions
at the Speck s University. Lately he has
revealed an unquenchable thirst for golf.
DAME DISCONTENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jinx’s mother when she came out here lived in a
flimsy tent.
’Twas eight by ten, and through it all the winds of
Heaven went.
The sun burned in, and came the snakes and bull-
ants there to play—
■ Jim s mother told Jim’s father its defects ten times
a day. .
Jim s father built a skillion house of palings neat
.and trim,
Entirely straight and watertight, and suitable to
him.
Jim’s mother thought the roof would leak, the wood
floor was too rough;
She was certain tliat the wall plates were not nearly
high enough.
They shifted into town, and took a house with
real glass
For windows, and a lawn before all overgrown
with grass.
Jim’s mother found it draughty and too cold, and,
what was more,
She couldn’t bide a place that had two steps up to
the door.
Their next home was two-storeyed, and much finer
than the last.
Jim’s mother hated stairs, and said that she was
failing fast.
W ithout a tap inside the house she ever must
lament;
And loudly longed for good old days and life within
a tent.
Jim prospered in his business, and took them, for a
start,
To a truly stylish villa in a fashionable part,
His mother scorned the washhouse, and the kitchen-
ette she slanged—
She said these modern architects should all of them
be hanged.
Jim built a house to suit her, taking heed of all
complaints.
His mother feared the place was damp, she loathed
these bluish paints.
She said she was more comfy, more at home, too
so to speak,
In a dear old skillion Dad built in the bush beside
the creek. ,
Jim’s mother passed at eighty, and Jim often muses
now
On the troubles up in Heaven, and the arguments and
row
About that mansion in the skies, with steps before
the door,
And those awful, old, rheumaticky, damp clouds be-
neath the floor!
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


t>.
V*.
: ■■
O
Si
>
o
7
.
I ■ ;
■1
I
7-7 ’
~
c <dK‘
«H
I
■ 1
*£j
1
\
MJ*
,7
E
KS
wm
m
.
II
%
77
■
- ■
>.
■
■BP
sBf&
mm
i m
i Mm
o|i^cla«o
S’
.
*
CIVIC
THE
STANDARD
PIPE


You can buy
John Strange Winter’s
Preparations everywhere!
The popular John Strange Winter Toilette preparations, which have given
satisfaction for many years, are still procurable everywhere. Ask for them
at the Civil Service Stores, Washington H. Soul’s, Farmer’s, Waters’,
Horderns’, McCathie’s, David Jones’, Lassetter’s, and at any chemist or
fashionable department store.
Three preparations are mentioned here for seasonable use:—
J.S.W. Hair Food.
i
A positive hair restorative and
dandruff eradicator. Two kinds :
Oily—for dry scalps, 3/9
bottle. Non-oily, for lustreless,
lifeless hair, 4/9 bottle.
Lakshmi Skin Cream
A fragrant emollient for im-
parting that youthful, velvety
texture to the skin. Most eco-
nomical, too. Price 3/9 per
jar.
Lakshmi Lotion.
Just the very lotion your skin
needs during this trying,
changeable weather. For faded
lips it is especially good.
Price 3/9 per bottle.
%nCT 4 C/
INSTITUTE V
Dept. A.
ROLLED
GOLD,
I
m
Complete
with
Case,
mi-
We do not cater for any diseases
of the eyes. We simply correct
failing sight, which sets in at
about the age of 40.
Write for particulars and
our self-measurement form,
which will be sent on re-
ceipt of a post-card to
No money asked.
Pay post office,
when spectacles
are delivered.
Box 702 G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
MINCHINBURY
“H.A.T.”: Like “Yarrurn” (B. 30/9/’2O),
I was one of a party caught during pro-
hibited hours in a country pub. As our
crowd included the P.M., the John Hop was
about to vamoose, when the beak startled
us by saying loudly: “D 0 your duty, con-
stable.” Next week he fined himself a
pound. Ditto us. The name of the pub-
bery was The Welcome Inn. We remem-
bered the irony of it as we were paying over
our quids.
* * * *
“The Immature Male”: Thus my Greek
friend Beppo, between the soup and the fish :
“A-r-r-rh! Dis labor qvestion give-a me
da pain. Listen! Last-a veek Spiro come
BREAKING IT TO HIM GENTLY.
S AD DAD: “Those cigars are better than the
ones I smoked at your age.”
GLAD LAD : “ Father, reluctant as I am to
acquaint you with the fact, I am com-
pelled to state they are better than the
cigars you smoke now.”
to-a me vit da hard-a luck story. He been-a
at-a da races, an’ come-a da beeg thud ; so-a
I give-a heem da job in-a da front-a shop,
open da oyst. He is oblige, he is a-qveek,
and all-a is-a veil until last-a night. Spiro
is in-a da shop by-a heemself; I am-a busy
sortin’ da feesh, ven a gr-r-r-and lady drive-a
up in-a beeg car. Ar-r-rh! Bonze! In-a
da glass I see-a her. All-a ver’ fine dressed
vas-a she, furs and-a all-a dat, like-a da
ciucness. fehe ask-a how-a much da prawn,
an’ before-a I can-a put on-a da coat, Spiro
speak-a da piece. He say-a, ‘Do-a you vant-a
dem cooked, or for-a fishin’?’ Fishin' Hell'
I am-a disgust. I say, ‘Do-a she look-a like
she go-a fishin’?’ Spiro give-a da back chat,
an I give-a heem da sack, qveek. Excusa
Below-a dere! Two cup-a da cof., an’ da
plate of da fr-r-r-ied snap.”
* * „
* * *
Grego : In Li’l’ Bu k-stleet, Melbourne
a demand has set in for laudanum, otherwise
tincture of opium. By vaporising it a
residue consisting of the best smoking opium
rich in all the active principles which impart
the kick, is obtained. At present a tin
ot nrst-grade smoking opium is worth about
£-o: it contains five \
English ounces by
weight. From a
liquid pound of lauda-
num, wholesale price
17 s., nearly two
ounces of opium can
be recovered. It (is
illegal to sell the tinc-
ture, but chemists
here and there are
taking a chance. A
few months ago, at a
departmental sale of
medical and hospital
stores, a supply of
opium tincture, six
or seven gallons, was
knocked down at less
than the warehouse
price to a person in
no way connected
with the drug trade.
He explained after-
wards that he had
acted as agent for a
stranger, whom he
had met in an hotel,
and who gathered up
the goods and disappeared. With opium at
f-p er tln ; there must have been an un-
healthy profit on the transaction.
* * * *
“Nell T.”: It was a mean street down
r.itzroy way, and the bottle-o was doing
ms Caruso act. She came out of a one-
sided cottage in answer to his chant —a
dainty girl, obviously foreign. “Will you
please go round my back?” she said in
broken English to the astonished bloke. I
was trying to place her nationality when’
the youngster I was taking home broke in:
' Miss, that’s Ginger Smith’s wife that he
brought home from the war. She’s a Bel-
gian. I glanced down the filthy street
and wondered what the bride thought of
Australia.
* * * *
“Murkah”: The two most astonished men
■diout Sydney in March, 1917, were the
skipper and wireless operator
of a Yankee vessel. On their
arrival the wireless aerial had
been disconnected from the gear
and the cabin locked and sealed,
but Sunday visitors came
aboard, and a scrap of British
sealing-wax wasn’t going to
keep .two independent Ameri-
cans out of their own wireless-
room. “Can you work it?”
asked one of the guests. “Sure,”
was the reply, and the opera-
tor, thinking it quite safe, as
the aerial was disconnected,
• sent a few letters. That
wouldn’t have mattered, but he
used the SOS signal, and it
was heard at Cariingford radio,
15 miles away; he hadn’t
allowed for the ultra-sensitive-
ness of the Australian-made
receiver at that station. The
call-letters should have indi-
cated the vessel at once. But
during the war calls were fre-
quently duplicated, and the let-
ters used rightly belonged to a
Clan liner then in the English
Channel. Communication was
established as promptly as pos-
sible with every ship in the
Tasman, and from the Bight to
Thursday Island. Three
destroyers were despatched from
Sydney to search for some
possibly-unrecorded stray from overseas. No
result. Still, it was taken for granted that
the call had been used, and the search was
persisted in until somebody lighted on the
broken seal and bluffed the story out of the
American captain. It was a very humble
operator who toed the carpet at Garden
Island.
*** . *
“Medico”: It is an extravagant age, but
there are still some saving souls about. I
had a patient in my country hospital who
was at the point of death. His home was
about 20 miles away. His wife rang up
and asked how the old man was, and I told
her the case was quite hopeless. “If that’s
the case,” she said, “would you let me know
when I can bring him home? It’ll be
cheaper for me to bring him home while he’s
alive.”
Spare Corp.”: The Digger millionaire
nas made his appearance again. Ashmead
Bartlett found a dozen of him toiling at
one Gallipoli dump, and the latest arrival
has been lighting his pipe in the Strand with
live-pound notes and loading astonished
Cockneys with largesse. The most spec-
tacular .spendthrift of the A.1.F., was a
Bigger who arrived from France with a pile
he had souvenired somehow, and, haunted
by an idea that he was going to be killed
when he went, back to the line, drew’ all his
money from the bank and all his available
pay. His was a magnificent burst. He
gave notes away in the Strand ,to all and
sundry, and wanted to shout fizz for every-
one he met, until the A.I.F. authorities,
THE TIME WHEN THEY'RE REALLY
SERIOUS.
BRENDA : “Freddy is thinking very seriously
about marriage .”
BILLY : “Ah! How long has he been mar-
ried?”
hearing of his exploits, sent M.P.’s to collar
him. He did not resist: having exhausted
his money he was prepared to go back to
France and die. But a Medical Board de-
cided that he was unfit for further service,
and, broke, and embittered with Fate, he
came home.
* * * *
“D.”: The agitation which was started
in Melbourne last month on the question of
the alleged loose conduct of society girls is
a recurrent favorite with the gossip-mongers
dating back to the earliest days of the N.
S. Wales Rum Corps. A record which has
not yet been beaten in any Australian State
was put up in the time of Governor Fitz-
roy, of N. S. Wales. After his wife —the
one restraining influence of his career—was
killed in a carriage accident at Parramatta
he took to drink and anything else of a .sen-
sational nature that offered. There were
the usual affluent young people with an
ambition to do whatever vice-regality
thought right: a mixed lot they were, soc-ially
and otherwise, and Fitzroy and his staff did
their best to make them more so. The pro-
tests of the reputable grew louder and
louder, and eventually nobody who was any-
body went to Government House at all.
The newspapers ceased printing the names
of the vice-regal dinner-guests, for fear of
libel actions. Many will recall the out-
burst against the pagan licentiousness of the
rich which was occasioned in Sydney a
quarter of a century ago by the behavior of
some young women outside a well-known
restaurant. They had gone there from Gov-
ernment House, and they convinced the
pure (1) that no one ever left the yice-regal
presence sober; (2) that all young women
of leisure were lost. The fatuous feature
of all these outbursts is, of course, the fact
that they represent argument from the par-
ticular to the general. Few girls in any
generation really like drink, and they are
further put off it by the knowledge that it
ruins their skins, encarmines their noses and
depreciates their chances of securing hus-
bands. But in every generation there are
some who drink proudly and publicly, like
the born dipsos, they are. It is this
hilarious little band which provides the
texts for the ultra-righteous, who are usu-
ally old, on the principle that Virtue, like
the owl, dwells in ruins..
* * * *
On a person with a weakness for matri-
mony and murder: —
Could a writer of detective fiction have imagined
such a story as that of Eugenie Fallieni he would
have had to leave it unwritten. Not because certain
phases of it Are incapable of treatment, except in
psychopathologieal publications, but because he would
have been unable to give the necessary verisimilitude
to so grotesquely improbable a theme. Even the credu-
lity of the average novel-reader would have revolted
against the fantastic horribleness of the tale.
That a middle-aged widow, foreign-born and illi-
terate (she can neither read nor write), should dis-
guise her sex so successfully as to impose upon
the doctor for whom she worked is singular enough.
But not only the doctor was taken in; his lean,
taciturn rouseabout captivated a fellow-domestic,
herself a widow, and “married” her. For nearly four
years they lived together and then the wife died
suddenly. When three more years had gone by it
was discovered that her “husband” had knocked
her on the head—possibly because she had false
teeth and tried to cremate the body, ineffectually
as it turned out. After this episode Fallieni
attempted another murder—that of “his” victim’s
young son—and went through the marriage ceremony
with a second impassioned matron of mature age.
The latter managed to hang out until the police
came along. Presumably she had her own teeth.
The most amazing feature of the grim business is
that two women should liave lived on the most inti-
mate terms with Fallieni for years without suspect-
ing her sex. When one considers how superior the
female of the species is to the male creature in
intuition and sensitiveness to impressions the thing
is almost incredible, but the persons least sceptical
are those most closely connected with the case. The
authorities liave found no evidence that either “wife”
was privy to the fraud. Perhaps lovely woman
sometimes loses her intuition and self-protective
instinct when she is past 40; or it may be that
these qualities are only operative as regards the
other sex.
The last woman executed in Australia was Martha
Rendall, who was hanged at Fremantle (W.A.) 13
years ago for poisoning her paramour’s children with
spirits of salts. There was a shadow of doubt about
Martha’s guilt, and she would not have been sent to
the scaffold to-day. Probably no Australian woman
will ever walk that fearful road again. Eugenie
won’t, at all events. The Storey Government’s abo-
lition of capital punishment has saved her neck,
though public sentiment would probably have saved
it in any event.
* * * #
“Avogadro”; There was a riot of teacup
talk in our township when Tonks de-
parted witli Mrs. Slugg for Sydney. But
the grassed widower stayed on, “batched”
for a season, and welcomed the tourists at
the railway station on their return. And
now Mr. and Mrs. Slugg are housekeeping
again as if nothing had happened. Would
marriage holidays keep down the divorce
statistics?
* * * *
An Adelaide hotelkeeper has had a fairly
cheap lesson in the law. An inspector of
licensed premises dropped in on him late
one afternoon and asked for tea, bed and
NO ROSE WIT HOE T A THORN.
H ECTOR: “This is our last hour together, but
I promise not to kiss any girl till I see
you again.”
RITA (anxiously) : “Oh, but don’t get out
of practice .”
early breakfast. The bed and breakfast
were promised readily, but the landlady was
“sorry" we do not provide tea. We have
only a small staff.” Nesbit, S.M., said it
was a “serious offence,” and that good
Mr. Pintpot ought to be aware of his obli-
gation to provide accommodation “for a bona
fide traveller, and his beast, at all hours of
the day and night.” Then he fined the
offender £2 and costs.
(Continued on page 18.)
DEMOBILISED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In shabby clothes I plod along the street
Dreaming of glories that were mine of yore.
How smart I used to be from head to feet!
And what a dominating air I wore!
Sweeter to me than dulcimers or lutes
Were the grave Tommies and their stiff salutes.
I crowd into a proletarian tram
And dangle in discomfort from a strap ;
I whose Rolls-Royce through Merrie England swam,
Spurning the village copper’s roadside trap;
I who the maddest scallawag could scare
Am bawled at by a tramguard for my fare!
The ocean brings no happiness to me:
It only stirs sad thoughts of other days
When, like a sceptred king, I took to sea
And travelled like a king those pleasant ways
(I, who am now an eligible’s slave!)
Which led to glory rather than the grave.
Ye beings who at times control the world
Grant that my cry be not set up in vain!
Cause the old battle-flags to be unfurl’d
And the old bases to be filled again:
Get me the cushy job I had before!
Send, of your mercy send, another war!
X.S.W.
10-2-4.


liVl
U>. . IH II'*"
A\
m
m
I
s
*
r
i
i
v
ilia
iii u\i
.Ml fll.ll i'HiMi'
1
-
&
w
m.
1
i
{fs
m
ll
ML
Wf*
mh?
m.,
im
I
>
iAtaX
44
I
I
iftyjl.
n
I
■
mi
in
■
«fl
np§
»;«■
ft*
h *i
mm.
m
!#>
ml
m
-C
■^3
ME
■
mm
HK
m
mm.
Iw
:
_a*
HH
s
n
at
w
vV'
\
'’lll
!
al
Essentials in
Tyre Construction
The Sturdy PERDRIAU Tread*
Long before the tyre begins to take
shape under the skilled hands of the
builder, there are definite factors deter-
mining its ultimate service.
The first-grade crude rubber is com-
pounded in the mixing mills according to
the formula that has made the tread of
the sturdy Perdriau Tyre famous through-
out Australia.
Fit Perdriaus for absolute Tyre Security.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, PERTH.


The Appeal of Quality
The appeal of Quality was never so forcible as it is to-day—
particularly in Diamond Jewellery. Talented artists created these
designs, and the cleverest Diamond Experts selected the Stones.
Call at any of the Stewart Dawson Establishments and inspect their
beautiful assortment of Diamond Designs, which is continually
being added to.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS. Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN (N Z )
HATTON GARDEN, LONDON. ’ ’
WRITE FOR LATEST CATALOGUE.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.(A*t> Ltd.
The World=renowned Jewellery Firm.
E6o6 —Fine Quality Diamond Set Platinum and 15-ct.
Gold Flexible Bangle, £37/10/-
til7B —Choice Design Fine
Diamond and Platinum
Circle Brooch, £l7/10/-
K992—Fine Diamond and
Platinum Circle Brooch,
£lB/10/-
E6oB—Very Artistic Design Platinum and 15-ct. Gold
Flexible Bangle, set Fine Quality Diamonds, £35,
Best Quality Case supplied with each Article
I.Z. : My grocery man has a novel test
ot the domestic felicity of his customers.
Buying biscuits the other day, I heard a
stout dame comment on the loving attri-
butes of a matron who had just left the
shop, and the happiness of her home life,
-then the cynical tradesman chipped in. “I
dunno,” he said. “I have me doubts. Mrs.
B buys more crockery than any other
customer I’ve got.”
* * * *
Luxury Trader”: The tender symbolism
of the window-dresser is very affecting. I
have just been reduced to tears by"the dis-
play of a music-firm’s specialist. On the
keyboard of an expensive piano was a bridal
bouquet. On the carpet near the pedals a
dozen Hakes of confetti gleamed. In mid-
air, suspended by very thin wires, a card-
board Cupid held the ends of white ribbons
which were attached to the legs of the instru-
ment. When the novelty of that idea wears
oft, I suggest that an insolvency schedule be
left on the keyboard of the extravagance. Or
the cardboard Cupid might be dressed and
posed as a female infant-prodigy learning
the five-finger exercise while a scowling bush-
ranger from the waxworks, tailored as a
suburbanite* tries to read an evening paper
in the middle distance. There’s no end to
this sort of advertising.
* * * *
“Ivopai” : When our enemies decide that
the time is ripe it is to be hoped that they
will be sportsmanlike enough to give us
notice, so that our silent navy may not be
caught napping. A warship was wanted re-
cently to search for the missing Amelia J., and
the one sent was the ancient tub H.M.A.S.
Platypus, mother of the submarines stationed
at Geelong (Vic.) and more a floating work-
shop than a warship. She set forth with only
a few bucketsful of coal aboard, and had to
return to take in enough fuel to carry her to
the job. Then, when she started again, she
ran into the mud of the South Channel, and
stayed there until two tugs ran down from
Williamstown to haul her off. By that time
t.b.d. Swordsman, rearing barnacles
m Sydney Harbor, had been scraped down
enough to be able to steamy and Mother
1 iatypus returned to her anxious brood
swinging at buoys in Corio Bay and praying
A YOUNG MAN’S FANCY.
“ Don’t you think the Spring whips up one's
imagination?”
"But what’s the good—in the Spring you
girls leave so little for it to do!”
that no wind would rise. The wicked story
is going the rounds that when the call came
the R.A.N. hadn’t one of its clutch of ex-
pensive ships in fit state to reach Tasmania
—the Platypus was at that moment the Com-
monwealth’s active navy. A scandalous libel,
of course, but perhaps the Navy Board will
appoint a few more admirals just to show
that it isn’t dead.
* * * *
Concerning a man who claims to be the
rightful heir to a windy city:—
Periodically there arises, here or there or any old
where, the person with a revelation of great riches
due to him. Sometimes there is documentary evi-
dence of a sort. Sometimes the plaintiff merely
happened to be lying on his bed at noon when it
OUT SIZES ONLY.
I shall devote my life to meeting your
smallest desires.”
“I was not aware that I had any small
desires.”
was still dark, awake but dreaming that he was fast
asleep, when Feathers, the angel, appeared to him
with a flaming scroll in one hand and the family
skeleton in the other, and told him about his rights.
All Washington (U.S.A.) was once claimed in this
way as the inheritance of a man in Australia. The
Page Millions claim for a large slice of London
arose here, likewise the Tichborne Claimant. The
demand of a man in London for the city of Welling-
ton (M.L.) is poetic retaliation.
The position seems to be that old Captain Low,
alleged uncle of the present man, died in 1872,
having possessed a grant of land “near Wellington.”
It appears to be rashly assumed that it was near
that city on the under side instead of alongside. On
this he. paid a few shillings a year land-tax, so
its value wasn’t tremendous. For lack of visible
heirs that sponge-like creature “the Crown” took
his bit. Wellington was 33 years old in 1872, and
in all these years no one seems to have known that
Captain Low owned it. If he did, then the falling
in to the Crown of the site of the, capital and the
Crown’s sudden establishment as the only Crown
that was ground landlord of its own metropolis
should have made a ripple, but there was no ripple.
Wellington, shut in by its hills, doesn’t grow
fast in fact, at last census “greater” Wellington
with 70,000 people was only the third city in Maori-
land and it isn’t such a rich prize as some places.
Anyhow, after 48 years’ legal ownership, the Crown
will probably be inclined to argue, especially as it
has been losing money lately through war. It
might even ask for 48 years’ arrears of taxes, with
compound interest.
* * * *
. “Sixenate”: This is the oddest letter of
inquiry that has come my way:—
Dere Sirr, I hav been too (2) yeres in this country
an am 48 yeres of age. Will I be entitled to the
olde age penchun when I am sixty? Will it be
wurth my wile goin on living hear?
Don’t know whether my client intends to
clear out or pass out if he isn’t entitled to
the pension; but I gave him information
that may save him from suicide.
* * * *
“Yarrum”: The Premier, on a visit to
Dapto (N.S.W.), was told that the Public
School teacher there “was obliged to live in
an old pub” ; and I’ve been wondering how
he can get any sort of decent results from
his school. I know what it is, for I once
had a similar experience on the Lower Man-
ning. The old pub I occupied had been con-
demned, but hadn't been closed long, and
shickered sleeper-getters would roll up at any
old time of the night or morning, knock
loudly on my front door, and roar through
the keyhole, “For Gorsake comean’ givish
jushanosher and we’ll geshome!” My wife
and I were hopping out of bed all night, and
our 14 (or so) kiddies shivered and lay
awake in their little beds, terrified by the
grog-seekers. In the end I contracted in-
somnia, got dopey, had “most unsatisfactory’’
reports from the inspector, and was removed
to a lower-class school, thereby losing £4S
p.a.
* * * *
“Bookah B.”: Whilst returning per
troopship Ivonigen Luise last year, all
hands had to answer an afternoon alarm
to boat stations. Some of the crew were
' at the lifeboats when one man fell over-
board without his belt. Two buoys were
thrown, but both were soon lost to sight.
Ihe engines were stopped, a lifeboat
lowered, and hundreds of Diggers climbed
. the rigging. The man
overboard not having
been seen for 15 minutes,
and the crown-and-anchor
boards and games of two-
up being at a standstill,
the Digs, made bets of
three to one against a
recovery. The ship was
now travelling back over
its course, the little life-
boat got further and
further away, more Digs,
climbed the rigging, and
more bets were made at
longer odds. Then a
cheerful roar from aloft
announced that there he
was, on the starboard
side of the ship, while
2000 pairs of eyes had
been directed to port!
The steamer’s siren gave
a blast of recognition,
another boat was low-
ered, and a few minutes
later they had the drip-
ping Australian aboard,
little the worse after his
35 minutes in mid-
Atlantic, wearing pants
and shirt and no lifebelt.
As the engines were rung
on again the cheerful call
went up, “I’ll pay on the
swim! I’ll pay on the
swim !”
“Spare Corp”: The A.I.F. was the best-
fed army in the line, not only as regards the
quality of the food, but the way it was
served up as well. When the Yanks found
that their commissariat needed a lot of im-
provement, it was officers from the Australian
forces that they requested to help them to
work out a system. Near Wyschaete there
was a ravine, and there the cook-house was
established, quite close to the line. At
Meteeren it would have been inviting trouble
to have cook-houses so close, so limbers laden
with containers of smoking-liot food stole to
within easy distance of the outposts—and
incidentally astounded some English, French
and Yank officers who were in an “inter-
national post” for observation purposes. The
Australian had a great capacity for concen-
trating on the job he had in hand. At one
newly-acquired possie a sergeant in charge of
the ration party took a preliminary round of
the outposts to be served. He arrived in
our trench at a time when an attack was
expected, and a good deal of chemical and
metal nastiness was flying about; and
climbed out preparatory to visiting the next
outpost. “Hey, there’s an attack coming;
you’d better stay here,” he was advised. “Do
your own blanky fighting,” he said. “My
job’s the rations.”
* * * *
“P.P.” on the mysterious ways of woman:
When the once-wealthy Mrs. Blank parted from
her husband and decided to work for her living, she
became a housemaid. Her first employer was a
woman who, in other days, had been one of her
own servants. It seemed a queer thing to do, but
“the wretch always worried me by giving me notice,”
said the lady in reduced circumstances viciously;
“she must have done it half a dozen times. So I
took the position—to give her notice, the wretch!
And I did it, too, after the first week.” The ever-
lasting paradox!
* * * *
“Gunner”: Dr. Millard, of Sydney, in his
presidential address before the Medical
Congress, remarked upon the “disservice done
to the country by some M.O.’s in helping the
unfit man to embark,” and he proceeded to
comment on “how much worse than useless
in the field is the unfit man.” Of course there
were some scandalous cases of men who
never intended to be sent into the firing-line,
and who knew that they would not be if thev
drew any M.O.’s attention to their disabilities.
But to say that all the technically unfit were
useless is to argue in the face of accomplished
facts. There was an artillery subaltern
who couldn t see five yards -without powerful
glasses when he joined the A.I.F. He pro-
ceeded to Flanders with a bag of spectacles,
and ultimately commanded a battery with
distinction. Bertie McNamara, of a Sydney
t left in the ranks with the sth
Jb.A.B., got a commission and lost an eye.
JLinng of Camp 20, Lark Hill, and the late
Colonel “Billy” Mailer, he wangled his way
back to France. No one in the 6th (Army)
Brigade, with which he served until he was
gassed, considered him other than a most
va luable officer. Such cases might be multi-
plied almost indefinitely. In fact, in the
closing stages of the war the chief difficulty
was to select from those who were actually
facing the enemy any large proportion who
were fit —fit, that is, in the sense of being
able to pass the regulation tests. Far other-
wise was the position at the bases. There
were lusty fellows at all of them who would
i , serve d their country well in the line
had they been got there and made to stand
their What puzzled non-official
soldiers was not so much the doctors’ habit
ot sending palpable invalids overseas (the
need for men was so well known that the
propriety of this practice was rarely ques-
tioned) as their custom of leaving much
litter men in England. In fact, a lot of
them are puzzled about it still.
* * * *
“Cazna”: an ordinary Digger butt in
on the rifle v. machine-gun argument. “Ex-
permanent officer’’ (B. 9/9/’2O) asserts that
a machine-gun can be .carried and operated
by one man. Quite true—with the help of
six more to carry enough ammunition to
keep it firing continuously for less than 10
minutes. . That is with the Lewis, which,
after all, is only a superior automatic rifle.
The divisional companies were equipped with
the Vickers-Maxim. One man cannot carry
it any distance. The writer, by the way, is
not a rifle-club man, but all his battalion’s
first-class shots were.
“Billy T.”: Crossing Pig Creek at Pan-
cake Flat was always a rather dangerous
act to the local inhabitant who neglected
to go home sober'. The ford was a precari-
ous one along the slippery trunk of a< big
tree suspended between bank and bank. If
you missed your footing you went down into
five or six feet of greasy, white, pipeclay
slurry from the Cockatoo and Euchre Pack
puddlers. The stuff sucked at you and held
on. Grace was crossing at seven one morn-
ing.! when he heard a pitiful small voice
soliciting aid, and discovered Irish up to
his armpits in the slush : “Get a shovel and
dig a feller out,” pleaded Irish. “What’s
it worth V' asked Grace. “I haven’t got a
copper. I drank up last night. That's?
THE MIDNIGHT OIL.
“Billy's dad is wild With him for burning the
midnight oil.”
“Why, lie ought to be pleased.”
“Oh, no! lie likes the car to be in by ten
o’clock.”
what landed me here. If I don’t get out I’ll
lose my job.” “Oh, well, so long,” said
Grace. “I’m goin’ fer yer job.”
* * * *
“F.G.”: In 1848 two of the men who were
employed shearing for Mr. Withers, of
Ullina, at that time practically the only
station between Wangaratta and Albury,
found their way to a roadside pub known as
the Black Dog. They consumed as much as
they could and took a bottled supply away.
When it ran out they quarrelled over an old
song, and finally one stabbed the other with
a pair of shears. The aggressor was tried
for manslaughter and got seven years ; the
other was buried in the bank of what is still
the Murdering Hut Creek. The Black Dog
Hotel has been in the hands of the same
Dillon family ever since, but it will pass
out at the end of the year, they having just
surrendered the license; and the present
generation of the Witherses are advertising
what remains of Ullina station for sale this
month.
THE RENEGADE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mo Blunie I found a fine, big man,
A Hebrew of the best;
But not respected by his cian—
I wished to know the rest.
Why, ’mid the great Judaean noses,
A sad pariah was poor Moses ?
I asked Ike Marks. He was not plain,
But one remark he made:
“One tink I say, und say again—•
He vos a renegade.
Und, by mine true und sacred smeller,
I nefifer speak me mit dot feller.”
But Morris Cohen was more clear:
“I don’d look on hiss face.
l)ot Blume he iss, I tolt you here,
A traidor to hiss race.
Vy, don’d you know den vot hiss trade iss?
He capdain of dot fire-prigade iss!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


What Would This Increase Mean to You?
0
J
/?
»
%
ET*
mm
-
L
%<
0*
Sv.
II
\7ttZ
a
mm
-rrr'
rfr«f
1
-A
„ if j
pP 18 *
f'
M
~2Bm JJr
jaMUi m
Wffßpwafe- \
mm& * - (MM
f 1
*
l@ll£
as
■■Mi
. v-
f@Ji
I
p
m
Wm§ MMI
, I •„* 'r
is a
HH
1
il
I
rfisjO
V'
,c- .;
If'*jKi?
r
r
SiiiiS
iriuiauuiuiisffiyHiiiiililjjijil jj
cbusilS
An Illinois practical feeding experiment showed that cows fed with the properly
balanced ration gave 47 p.c. more milk and more butterfat than others fed with th
same quantity of unbalanced ration.
Every Stockowner is anxious for greater output.
We want him to know that to secure best results his
stock MUST be supplied with properly-balanced foods.
To merely feed on stock grasses is not sufficient.
The Cow needs a milk-making ration high in protein,
at the same time containing sufficient carbohydrates to
provide body maintenance and energy.
Maximum production on pastures alone is impossible.
Although they stimulate the milk flow, a concentrate
rich in protein is necessary to balance the ration and
increase both the weight and the productivity of
the stock.
Cattle Food, “The Ideal Concentrate,” fed as
directed is unequalled as an economical food. It fur-
nishes the ideal ration because it contains the essential
food elements, is easily digested and supplies necessary
energy to turn feed into milk.
We cater for each class of stock raised for profit.
Whether you be concerned with production of milk,
beef or eggs, the correct grade of Specialised
Stock Foods will help you. They are correctly balanced
and scientifically formulated and must give greater
results.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET ON SCIENTIFIC FEEDING TO STOCK FOODS DEPARTMENT A.
„ „ „ rn Ttrt Oueen Street, Brisbane; Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666
Agents—Messrs. R. S. Exton ’’Ltdßundle Street, Adelaide; Messrs. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd Ring
Bourke St., Melbourne; coV, Ltd., Hobart and Launceston; The National Dairy Association of
?anamf sTree?,"Wellington, N.Z.; Messrs. Johnston & Co., ltd., Fentherston Street.
Wellington, N.Z.
pEEOOUMEAi
Ofaboyon the bay
guarantees quality
HEAD OFFICE %C KING ST SYDNEY(\^>rks.PaiTamalta)
GGITTS
(JNSEEDOItMEAI
/AEGG ITT C
\ RARRAMATTA
n< jlAeJboy on the bag*
guaran tees quality


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident g Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 CORBINS ST., MELBOURNE
QUEENSLAND BRANCH-
S'. S. & A. BANK CHA'WBEtcs
EAGRE STREET, BRISBANE. RSj
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
01
«*
Hotel
* 15/- per Day
8/6 Bed & Breakfast
C.R.KePP 45 Swanston sf.
Proprietor. . Melbourne
j
King George IV
IUI ' m WHISKY
THE TOPNOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
'‘THE RETREAT FROM MOSCOW .”
« : Those neddies mentioned by
Senex” and “Rover” don’t win the old-age stakes,
t nominate Oleander, a retired stockhorse on the
° f u Lagoons, near the head of the Burdekin
(00. She was foaled—as Scott Bros.’ books will
verify—m 1872, her sire being Vanquish by Sir
Hercules her dam Miss Oliver by Free Trade (imp.)
Though she hasn’t a tooth left and is nearly blind
the old mare is still hale at 48, and subsists on soft
water-grasses and weeds picked up around the edges
of the homestead lagoons. In her work-days long
ago she was a champion on a drafting-camp, being
used for cutting out.
“Mypharry”: How to cook spuds, is it?
Cet away from the fire and watch me. Lay some
pieces of wood on the bottom of a camp-oven, scrub
the spuds perfectly clean, stab them here and there
and shove them into the oven with a couple of pints
of water, a dab of fat, and, if you like the flavor, an
onion. lut a shovelful of embers under the oven
and one on the lid, and let the spuds part-steam and
part-roast till cooked. The pieces of wood ate to
keep them out of the water.
“W.H.E.”: Is there any other part of
Australia whose pioneers have left so many enduring
memorials of the richness of its primeval forests as
the South Coast of N. S. Wales? Round the Berry
•district there are hundreds of old-time houses built
entirely of two-inch red cedar slabs. Recently I
helped to pull down a 100-year-old shanty of three
rooms, every timber of which was cedar except the
four outside tallow-wood plates. And there wasn’t
an unsound board in the building. The re are scores
of log-ends still lying where the timber-getters hacked
their way into the scrub, and though moss-covered and
saturated with moisture the heart is quite sound.
There’s hardly a farmer on the South Coast from
Kiama to Milton who can’t point with pride to the
number of cedar shacks on his plantation that were
built by the pioneers in the ’fifties.
“Koel”: “Ecla’s” (B. 2/9/’2O) drastic
method of distinguishing the female pawpaw from
the male may be avoided by driving a wooden peg
through the stems of the plants when they are
about two feet high. This causes the male plants to
bear, 'and doesn’t do the females any harm. Cut-
ting- the centre top-leaves from the male, and cover-
ing the cut part with a jam-tin to keep out mois-
ture and lessen bleeding, also causes the male to
bear. My owm experience is that the female is
of slower growth and has not so many top leaves, the
leaves have longer stems, and the tops of the plants
are flatter.
* * * *
“Wart”: “Nell TVs” bunyip-bird (B.
10/9/ 20) is a bittern. It is wonderful how so
small a thing can make so great a noise. The
sound is very deceptive; you are never able to say
quite where the row is coming from or how far
away it is. More than anything it resembles the
distant roar of a bull. Resting in the reeds the
bird throws its head back until its bill points
straight to the sky. Flight is somewhat awkward,
but quite noiseless. The nest is a platform of reeds
built up a few inches above the water; and the
eggs, four or five, are pale olive. You might say
the bittern is comparatively common in Tasmania;
yet for one who has seen the bird a hundred have
heard it.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: The most earnest teetotaller
T ever met I ran against in Allandale (Vic.) in the
days when the Madame Berry was pouring out gold,
lie came into the bar of a wayside pub towards
Smeaton, swag up, and bought sixpenn’orth of
“colonial” beer, which he carried out. It was a
hot and 1 followed a moment later, expecting
to see him under the furze edge, luxuriating in the
“swipe” ; instead of which I perceived to my great
surprise that he was pouring the grateful beverage
into the dust of the road. “What’s the njatter with
it, mate?” I inquired. “I dunno,” he replied; “I
s’pose it’s as good as any of the stuff, but I’m a
thorough-goin’ teetotaller, I am, and every now and
again I buy a billy of beer and chuck it away.
That s so much the less for some poor fool to drink,
and it’s all I can do for the cause.”
R.H.A.” : “O’Kell B.” is right in saying
there is no standard method of handling colts. And
a good job, too. Anyone will fail who adopts hard
and fast rules. Horses differ in temperament and
character as widely as human beings, but all are
endowed with splendid memories. Once teach a horse a
good or bad habit, and you can rely on its sticking.
The most successful horsebreakers are those who
adapt their methods to the peculiarities of tlm
specimen they happen to be dealing with. Most
people know what it is essential to teach ; what not
to teach is just as important. Macleod, of Croydon,
Was the best 1 ever came across. On one occasion,
handling Chorister colts (amongst them Emerald)
on Ohudleigh Bark (Q.), he was unable to separate
two youngsters in a small yard. Without any fuss
or trouble he caught both and put rollers on, the
double operation taking about 10 minutes. Neither
horse had a bit of skin knocked off, and both were
in the yard the whole time.
* * * »
‘YV. Blister”: Billy Dope was reared on
the Queensland border, and when he was 18 his father
loaned him to a neighbor who had a contract. The
neighbor detailed Billy to run in the 10 horses
which he used. Early next morning he was off
with saddle on shoulder. Finding the horses, he
caught and mounted one. Rounding up the others
lie counted them. There were nine. Shaking his
head doubtfully he muttered: “One coot away ! Haf
ter find ’im, I s’pose.” Starting at nine in the direc-
tion of the camp, Billy rode off in search of the
missing one. It was nearing mid-day when a
thought struck him. He stopped, scratched his head
and then saw daylight. “Gor blime!” he grunted
and headed for the camp. He had ridden that
tenth nag about 20 miles before he found it.
* * * *
“Te W.”: The largest black-snake family
I ever visited was 16 ; the lady of the house was a
comparatively small brunette, only about 3ft. 9in.
long. But a friend dissected a black female which
had over 40 snakelets in her incubator. These
youngsters were only a few inches in length • but
I have in spirits one taken from a female carmine-
belly which measures fully 12in. My record for an
adult black snake is Bft. 6in., but late “Professor”
Fox (who succumbed to the bite of an Indian karait)
was photographed in the act of bagging an 11-footer.
Extra-big- serpents are probably of correspondingly
great age. Does any Abo. know the serpent’s
allotted span? One never finds a dead snake which
may reasonably be assumed to have pegged out from
senile decay. There are usually evidences of a
helping hand.
“Ghev ’: Harmon Walmsley, of Bruns-
wick Heads (N.S.W.), had a record catch in the
Brunswick River the other morning. There was
fearful commotion in the net, for a giant sawfish had
got the teeth of his terrible snout well entangled.
After a big battle the fishermen dragged the monster
ashore and killed him—-or rather her, for at the
beginning of the fight seven young sawfish flopped
NO DAY WITHOUT A DEED.
SUNDAY-SCHOOL TEACHER: “Well, Bertie, did you do any kind deed to-day f”
BERTIE: “I as’m; I put my dory Stinker on to a rabbit.”
out, very much alive. She had two or three sucking
fish firmly attached to her hide by the oval disc on
the top of the head. Evidently she had come into
the placid waters of the Brunswick to spawn, just
as her near relative, the shark, especially the shovel-
nose variety, does. The last big shark caught at
the Biunswick, a. 9ft. 2in. whaler, had nine voung-
sters on board. The sawfish was a horrific
monster, measuring from saw to tail 15ft. sin., and
the saw itself was 4ft. Sin. long.
“Mulga” : If “Scottie Thrake”(B. 9/9/’2O)
is well insured it’s all right—let him keep on
cleaning his firearms with gohanna oil. If he isn’t
he <1 better not. The oil is far too strong and pene-
trating for such a purpose, and will ruin any gun
of rifle in a few months.
* * * *
“Somaroy”: I agree with “Yarrum”—
dingoes will attack human beings. But not only
in packs. Not so long ago, while out riding near
Shark Creek, Clarence River (N.S.W.), a youth was
set upon by a lone dingo. The brute sprang repeat-
edly at the rider, who was unarmed; and in all
probability it would have gone ill with him had
not his father hurried to the rescue. A few accu-
rately-directed lashes from a stock-whip induced the
dog to abandon the attack.
Musa : It’s eas.l.v seen that “Johnson”
(B. 9/9/’2O) is not a Bananalander, or, if he is,
he has been where the papers don’t reach. The lan-
tana-fly has been in our district for at least a couple
of years, having been introduced by a man out
Ivin Kin way, 30 miles distant. The fly is a natty-
looking little chap, and must be a prolific breeder
and great traveller, for it can now be found in
almost any part of this district where there is a
lantana bush. It is doing good work, too, for about
50 per cent, of the seed is now affected, having the
grub in the kernel.
“H.G.R. ’: The native-bear makes a more
gentle and lovable pet than the ’possum, but 'possie
outlives him. 1 had one of the black variety for
over two years. He became very tame, would eat
out of my hands, climb on my shoulder, and accom-
pany me to the one-horse town of a night. I made
him a bag and hung it on the wall to camp in, and
of a morning I would always find him asleep in it
Occasionally in the daytime he would become restive
and hop out and help himself to any choice morsel
handy. Later on I took to myself one of the grey
but he turned out a wild customer, and
preferred a hollow tree to a bag. At dusk, however,
he would always line up for his rations. The news
of my benevolence must have spread, for one even-
ing- a mate also lined up. The stranger did not
appear to be afraid,: and came every evening after-
wards until skins became valuable and somebody
collected.
“Bonna Ponna”: “Mulga” (B. 26/8/‘2O)
doesn t produce testimony to bear out his assertion
that spraying gives “positive protection for at
least two months” against the blowfly pest. I will
go so fai as to assert that the spray does not give
protection for even one month. As regards costs, it
is very doubtful if crutching is not cheaper. Any-
how, I have found it much more effective.
“Dan M”: “Werrimee” (B. 26/8/’2O)
says that the venom of even our most deadly reptiles
is not fatal to other snakes and lizards. That’s all
bunkum. 1. the poison be injected in small doses into
an animal, the blood will produce an antitoxin, and
piobabh no ill effects will follow. Blit any animal,
snakes included, getting a full issue of poison won’t
be long in throwing the seven. It is, by the way,
commonly believed that once the poison fangs are
removed, the snake is harmless for all time. This
is not so. Most of our venomous Australian snakes
have one or two pairs of reserve poison fangs in the
flesh} gum of the upper jaw. When the poison
fangs in use are destroyed or removed, one pair of
the reserve fangs will grow through the gum and
carry on the good work. •
*■ * *
“O’Ren”: Tell “Tubbo” (B. 2/9/’2O)
that I’ve timed a sheep-skinning job that took 1
minute 48 seconds. The skinner pulled off from the
head back. Ive heard of quicker removals, but as
I haven’t seen any I’m a bit doubtful if the operation
could be shortened much, unless the sheep was hung.
THE OUTWARD-
BOUND TRAMP.
“Down to the
Plimsall.”
. “Gas ’: He was a newly-arrived pommy
with pink cheeks and China-blue eyes. “What’s ma
jorb ? he asked the cocky. Whiskers replied: “Ye
can git th’ mare an’ put ’er in th’ ’arrer fer me,
and then bring up some loosum fer th’ pigs.” Chum
packed the harness on his back, and then led the
mare down to the cultivation. Thinking that his
man was overdue, Cocky sauntered along to investi-
gate, and found him urging the mare to pull a
great load of lucerne which he had stacked on a
two-horse harrow.
(Continued on page 22.)
OBSERVATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The rose had thrown her petals down
And stood bald-headed in the heat;
The sky was blue, the earth was brown,
The hours went by on leaden feet.
These things I mention to make clear
The date had nearly reached next year.
Her hat was pink, her hair was gold,
Her shoes were very small and fine:
Her face was stern, her heart was cold—
A heart that never could be mine.
I merely mention this to show
The cause of some ecstatic woe.
The Chinaman with baskets twin
W ent heeling- by with crooked knees,
His smile was a peculiar sin
Beneath the shadow of the trees.
This 1 observe in passing here
To show my memory is clear.
The taxi-cab drew to the kerb,
The man alighted with a bound
And breathed a short impassioned verb
Jletween the step and solid ground.
I mention this to indicate
I saw what happened at the gate.
The dog was white and small and mean,
A pampered creature gone astray;
He wore an air of might-have-been
Last week or even yesterday.
I simply note this as a fact
To make my narrative exact.
The rose, the Chinaman, the girl,
The taxi-cab, the mean, white .dog,
The gate whose hinges seem to whirl,
The day with ears and eyes agog,
The sad, brown earth, the hot, blue sky,
The leaden hours that pass me by—
All these, as I remarked before,
T just observe in passing here.
I deftly stepped inside the door
And made a soft request for beer.
This flowing at the barmaid’s touch,
What else that chanced could matter much?
N.s.w.
PAT O’MAORI.


WOOL GROWERS !
Protect Your Sheep from the Blowfly
by spraying with the
VCi
POWER SHEEP SPRAY PLANT
The World’s Most Effective Method of Combating the Fly Pest!
The Cooper Spray Plant has been designed especially for spraying with a solid
iet under pressure. It is the direct result of more than four years solid experi-
ence in spraying sheep with this method. Reduces the cost of treating the sheep
by from 70 per cent, to 75 per cent.
Sip, i H3y i G a l C v°rsed e ;ro„ S IjSS. ■f'SSi Mgh-P™ hose. burned on
a strong hand lorry ready for immediate work.
Two Stands of Shearing Machines can be supplied for attaching to this Outfit if required.
The fwcpefr Combination Spraying and Crutching Outfit
is very populafamong sheep men. as the one Outfit can be used either for treating the sheep with
the liquid or for shearing and crutching them.
Write to-day for full particulars of Plant and method.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. Etd.
134 Sussex Street, Sydney; 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Clark & Fauset, Ltd., Brisbane; N. Z. Loan &M. A. Co., Rockhampton, Hughenden, Townsville;
G. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co., Perth; Aust. Imp. & H. F. Co., Adelaide.
mm
PIANOS—PARLOR GRANDS—PLAYER PIANOS
The Behning Pianos have
always enjoyed an excel-
lent reputation for
superior tone quality, also
for their conscientious
and reliable workman-
ship. But the surprising
manner in which they
stand the severe Austra-
lian climate has added
much lustre to their
already great name. They
are glorious Pianos for
the home.
WE SELL THESE FAMOUS INSTRUMENTS
ON EASY TERMS, SPREAD OVER A
NUMBER OF YEARS, IF DESIRED.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUES.
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
BRISBANE—LISMORE—NEWCASTLE,
TOOWOOMBA—ROCKHAMPTON.
The Behning Player Piano
combines a perfect musi-
cal instrument possessing
every artistic quality, with
a player action of marvel-
lous sensitiveness, capable
of producing every degree
of musical expression and
tone. It is considered by
many great experts to be
the .world’s most artistic
Player Piano.


PERMANE>
Trustee Company of N.S.W.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
TRUSTEE EXECUTOR ATTORNEY AGENT.
Capital: Subscribed, £1,000,000; Paid-up, £ I 10,000; Uncalled £890,000.
Estates under control aggregate £6,ooo,ooo—for the protec-
tion of which the whole capital is liable under the
Company’s Act of Parliament. The protection thus afforded
makes the Company
THE STRONGEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN THE COMMONWEALTH.
Directors *
ALFRED G. MILSON. F. N. YARWOOD O. E. FRIEND.
JAMES MOIR. (Chairman). TIIOS BUCKLAND
t wt , A - PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
J. W. Barnes, Assistant Manager. Write for Literature.
T
Ltd.
‘‘F.R.”: “Pick” says that ground snakes
can’t climb smooth, slim limbs of trees after birds’
nests. Well, listen to this. Last summer a little
brown wren, working under the guidance of her blue-
vested boss, built a villa in a Kentish cherry-tree in
my garden. Later on eggs were laid. One day I
heard some commotion amongst the birds, and on
leaving my ploughing I saw a black snake coiled
round the slender limb attending to the eggs. The
limb was really too weak to hold him, for when he
flattened out his head to hiss at me it broke off at
the bole, and down came snake, cottage and all. The
little wrens darted at him as he retreated into a hole
in the bank of the creek. Of course there never is
a stick bandy when you want one, but I plugged the
hole up and never saw the thief after.
* * * *
“Nalla Dooh”: The Bougainville natives
make a clay pipe with a bowl similar to that of
tfie German porcelain pipe. I received a surprise to
see one of these bowls ambling across the road one
moonlight night, and gave the lager a suspicious
thought. A hermit-crab was providing the motive-
power. Evidently he had found it a suitable villa.
When choosing a shell to accommodate his increased
growth the wee chap is very particular, trying the
fit repeatedly. Changes of residence are fraught
with grave risks, too, for a crab changing shells.
He is generally surrounded by a ring of hermits,
and should they get nippers on his unprotected hind
portions he becomes a corpse and a meal very
quickly.
* * # *
“Ragar”: Badu Island, in Torres Strait,
is dotted over with white-ants’ nests, ranging in
height from a few inches to nine feet. Going along a
bush track searching for orchids, I stood beside one
of these cathedrals while the other man dug out a
tree-orchid. With a tomahawk I cut off some four
feet of the top of the nest, which was about two
feet through. Passing along the same track a week
WOEFUL WASTE.
“Talk about waste and extravagance! Why,
with me own eyes I seen that feller
shout three times for two blokes that
only took soft stuff.”
later we noted the repairs. A fresh roof had been
added, and was still being built up; it was already
close on a foot above where I had cut into the nest.
In S’Africa some years ago my partner and I built
a four-roomed house of bricks made of crushed ant-
heap mixed with water, turned into bricks by
pouring the semi-liquid mess into moulds, drying
them, and cementing them together in the walls
with the same mixture slightly thinner. We used
the house for five years, and I heard that it was as
good as new 10 years later.
NOT RISKING FIDO.
THE FARMER: “Now, as soon as I can borrow Trucbody’s pointer you, can try your
hand at quail-shooting."
CITY VISITOR: “Why, what's the matter with-:your own dog
THE FARMER : “Oh, lie's too valuable."
“Corp. 283”: Among Australian heat-
producing woods (B. 2/9/’2O) malice runs only
second. Mangrove wins by a street. By itself it
will burn any boiler or stove, and the boiler-
attendants need to have asbestos pants on. I
think gidya will worry mallee for second place; and
as for burning right out to the finest white ash, it
is first.
* * * *
“Barcoo”: One of the most disastrous
overland trips ever made from N. S. Wales into
Bananaland with sheep eventuated
in 1893. Wills-Alien, of Gunnedah
(N.S.W.), had a brain-wave, and con-
ceived the idea of stocking Toolebuck,
in the dry north-west of Queensland,
with crossbreds, maintaining that that
class of jumbuck would adapt itself
to local conditions. To that end
16,000 crossbred ewes were given in
charge of a drover to pilot 1000 miles
on to the heads of the Hamilton and
Diamantiiia rivers. The turn-out in-
cluded a 12-horse team, besides two
lighter vehicles to transport camp
impedimenta. There is no animal that
takes more “holding” than the cross-
bred sheep, unless it be the goat;
consequently the lives of the drover
and his shepherds were one long
nightmare, and there was a trail of
long-haired sheep from Gunnedah to
the head of the Maranoa, where the
first check to the expedition took
place, it being impossible to proceed
further, owing to drought conditions
ahead. The flock here went on to
agistment, but the problem was to
hold the now doubly-cunning beasts.
They would climb through six-wire
fences with the agility of rabbits.
Wire-netting being unavailable, brush
yards were provided. They scrambled
over these like packs of monkeys, and
simply chewed down calico breaks.
Half the flock eventually got away
after the deluge came, but in charge
of a fresh drover, the first one retir-
ing—and, incidentally, he never
faced the stock routes of Queensland
again. Three thousand of the original
flock got on to Toolebuck 30 months
after they started out. Twelve months
later there was another drought on, and the Israel-
ites perished to the last hoof.
* * * *
“Howdy”: Recently in this district
(Richmond River, N.S.W.) I shot two eaglehawks
measuring one Bft. 4in. and the other Bft. from
tip to tip of the wings. These two had left only
three pigs out of two litters of 10 each; the last
nad been taken away when they were eight or nine
weeks old.
* * * *
“Mr. Mac.”: Re strange deaths in the bush.
Writer once came across a carcase of a yearling
heifer securely anchored to a sapling by the tail.
The long hair had got a clove-hitch round itself.
It was shortly after some rainy weather, and in the
poor beastie’s final struggle the ground had been
beaten flat in a semi-circle.
“Ewa” : During many years in the bush I
have come across only one case for divorce proceed-
ings in bird life. Attracted by the row that was
going on around a nest of young magpies, I strolled
over to see if mother and father were arguing over
the paternity of the young ’uns. Just as I arrived near
the scene the boss niaggie flew to another tree near by,
which also had a nest of young ones attended by a
mother. It was a clear case of keeping two homes
going, because the mother from tree No. 1 was soon
on the scene, and if she didn’t use up every bad
maggie adjective, and employ every vicious peck
known to her species, it was because she was too
excited. * The boss maggie was a game one: he must
have been to start two families, knowing the high
price of grasshoppers.
“Bookah”: Several pearling luggers rode
at anchor in Broome Bay, having come in from the
pearling grounds for a supply of tucker and water
and the quarterly clean-up. Having spent the even-
ing uptown repeatedly expressing a desire that the
health of my friends should be of the best, I
tacked back to my little 12-ton tub lying off the
jetty, where everything was in readiness to put
to sea as soon as a puff of wind blew along. As
there was no wind all turned in when the dinghy
had been pulled aboard and lashed. My head had,
I thought, no sooner hit the pillow than I was awak-
ened with “Jim, Jim, get up-—I want you, quick.”
When I rubbed my eyes and senses returned, I
found my old friend Bill bending over me, saying,
“Don’t make a noise, but for Gawdsake come with
me.” Having vainly remonstrated that 3 a.m. was
not visiting hours, I decided that something was
certainly wrong. Slipping- on a pair of trousers, I
followed Bill into a dinghy which I at once saw
was not his. William took the paddles, and when
100 yards had been noiselessly placed between the
dinghy and my lugger he explained matters. He
THE SECRET OF THEIR AFFLUENCE.
MRS. 'IGGINS : “As woman to woman, Missus
’Opkins, 'ow can they do it on what ’e
gets?”
MRS. 'OPKINSs: “Easy, Missus ’Iggins — ’e
sold the key of an ’ouse the other day.”
also was leaving that morning for the pearling
grounds, but on walking down to his boat he had
spotted a ton or so of anchor-chain which had been
landed from the steamer the day before, and as
he badly wanted a length (90ft.), he decided to help
himself. All alone, bringing his dinghy under the
jetty at about 2 a.m. when all was quiet, he lowered
one end of the chain into the boat, and let the law
of gravitation do the rest while he walked up the jetty
to make sure he was not being watched. But William’s
luck was out. Each length of chain was wired to
the next, so down it ran, length after length, until
Bill s dinghy was sunk in about three fathoms of
water, with several lengths of chain on top. We
held a short and hurried conference, but fearing to
get our nigs on the job if secrecy was to be observed
(there’s only one way to stop the tongue of a
mg, but it costs a tenner to bury ’em these days),
we got a couple of our mates from the town, and
we lour worked till daylight before we had Bill’s
misdoings camouflaged, the chain returned to its
proper place, and his dinghy, bearing many marks
of its illtreatment, righted and bailed out. Bill
decided to leave his much-desired chain, and we
adjourned to the nearest pub, where Bung was an
early riser, to lower a gin-sling at the expense of
William. But our luck then ran out, for when he and
1 returned to the jetty to go to our respective boats
mine was sighted a few miles down the bay under
sail. No one aboard thought I was not in my bunk
fast asleep, and as it was dark when they weighed
anchor the empty bunk was not observed. However,
I shipped with Bill, who immediately made for the
pearling grounds. The curiosity prevailing aboard
among my crew as to how, when and why I tran-
shipped has not yet been satisfied.
* *
* * #
“Manly”: Didn’t know that fish tackled
gulls till the other day, when I saw a fight between
the two off North Head, Sydney Harbor. The gull
was On the water, going through his morning toilet,
and must have been too busy with his brush and
comb to notice what was happening underneath him
He suddenly gave a startled squark and tried to
fly, but found he couldn’t make a go of it. There
was a wild flutter of wings, with much struggling
on the surface, and Anally I saw the reason, as the
bird managed to just lift a fish with a mouthful of
leg. The row lasted only a few minutes, and ended
in the gull beating off his assailant with his wings
aided by a very serviceable beak.
.** * .
“Vista”: A mate and I were sleeper-getting
up north of Gympie (Q.), and I had been doing
most of the yakker owing to the other chap having
a sore on his leg which wouldn’t heal. He’d tried
everything available, from pain-killer to poultices,
tonics to tar-brush, but nothing did any good. One
night an old swaggie camped alongside us, and
after packing his damper under the ashes ’ came
over to our camp for a yarn. He had a look at
my mate’s leg, heard what he’d been doing to it,
told him he was several things that you won’t
find in “When Mothers of Salem,” and then went
away: He was back within 20 minutes with a brew
in a billy, and proceeded to instal himself as C.M.O.
He told us he was using messmate-tea, which he
made by stewing chips of messmate cut green He
bathed the Wound, and then made a compress soaked
in the “tea,” which he renewed every couple of
hours. I don’t pretend to know anything about the
medicinal properties of messmate, but my mate was
a lie to do his whack with the axe again after three
days’ treatment.
* * * *
“Jobber”: “Tubbo’s” man (B. 2/9/’2O)
is a drone at skinning a sheep. When I attended
Homebush yards as off-sider to my brother, it was
common knowledge there that the champion slaughter-
man at Glebe Island had killed and dressed a jumbuck
in 59 seconds.
*
F.H.R. : I’m a shearers’ cook; and as
nearly all shearers’ tea and coffee is made in kero-
sene or petrol tins—squatters being too poor to pro-
vide other pots or urns—-I ought to know something
about cleaning these vehicles. You could burn a Satur-
-I S , ; ’UC Herald in any kerosene tin
that has not previously been cleaned, and the tea
made in it would still be undrink-
able. Boiling is the only way to
clean a kerosene tin, adding plenty
of soda to the water. Petrol tins
which have been empty some time
are generally used nowadays, and
if a couple of copies of the
Worker are burned under them
tea can be made in them at once;
still, the taste can be noticed for
quite a week after a tin is first
used as a tea-billy. Notice the
number of men who growl about
the “rotten tea” the first week in
a shed ; and it serves them right,
for the shearer doesn’t care what
utensils the cook has to use, or
how many 44-hour weeks the said
cook does in seven days. I
average 16 hours a day.
Gee lee : When Toddie rode the mail
to Wood’s Point, Flannigan had a bit of a quartz
show some distance off the track. One day Toddie
found a miner’s dish nailed to the big tree at the
turn off. Over the dish was a board, and on th»
board the pathetic request:
THE AFTERGLOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The curse of drought is on the stricken land,
Which languishes beneath the awful blaze
Of sun and want of rain, while whirlwinds raise
The dried-up soil in clouds of gritty sand.
Along the homestead road of Bullamband
That stretches on as far as eye can gaze,
The treeless plain is shimm’ring in the haze
Of glaring, stifling heat, by hot winds fanned.
Like milestones on the level track are gleams
Of empty bottles every mile or so,
And where they end a swaggie sweetly dreams,
And cares not if the sun be. high or low.
The radiance oozing from his face in beams
Is called, in simple terms, the Afterglow.
VICTORIA.
VRIL.
Win his Majesty’s mailman condescend
Over his horse’s neck to bend,
And place within this humble pan
Letters and parcels for Flanni-gan?


BACK AGAIN!
WINFRED
Cigarettes.
The World’s Favorite.
GOLD TIPPED.
.'--' - . \ ■ ,
IQ for Qd.
SHIPMENTS JUST LANDED.
Obtainable Everywhere.


llr
m
b
/f
r
' /
■/
■
mm
m i
i
I
■
k!
%
*§&=
S^sss
isL
I
*>
• N
m
mmmm
lisMl
.
;; • - ?
US
THE new Goodyear
Anti-Skid Single
Cure Tyre is the low*
est-price Quality Tyre
on the market. It is
built with the same
regard for satisfactory
service and long wear
as ever)’ other Good-
year Tyre. The price
of the new Single
Cure Tyre is
£8:3:0


SERVICE STATIONS AND DEALERS EVERYWHERE
m
s
s
1
■ v‘ .'■
tf
SIS
■H
i
:
i
V,
€^7r/Y
*
m
c.
J 0
em
. --v'
■
■; , rV; rjrsfS^
•32
mm
IV2
2f£
©
■Vi
■ j
<?<“■«_*=> f=<^RO
GOODYEAR TYRES
for your sturdy light car
THE light car owner can secure in 30 x 31 Goodyear Tyres
the same results of that skill and care which have made
Goodyear Tyres the preferred equipment on the highest priced
motor cars of the day.
The Goodyear 30 x 3i Tyre is, in all respects, as worthy of preference as its
bigger brothers. Its mileage is just as remarkable; its safety is just as great.
The comfort it provides is just as ample. It is just as free from trouble and,
properly cared for, yields as full a measure of economical service.
The owner of a Ford, Chevrolet, Maxwell, Dort or Overland 4 has this satisfaction: Although
his car has cost less and his Goodyear 30 x 3J Tyres are cheaper than larger sizes, he will
receive, relatively, as high and lasting a return from his tyre-investment as the owners of
heavier and higher-priced cars.
30 x 3y 2 Goodyear Double Cure
All-Weather .£1 A•A • A
Tread Tyre cXIU • U. U
30 x 3y Goodyear Single Cure
Anti-Skid ro . Q. A
Tread Tyre XO • O • U
Goodyear Heavy Tourist Tubes are thick, strong tubes
that reinforce casings properly. Why risk a good
casing with a cheap tube? Goodyear Heavy Tourist
Tubes cost little more than tubes of less merit.
30 x 3y 2 size in water-proof # # q


Tke
Purest
Spirit
iri the
WbrlcL
r.
r *
Fife's schnap^
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEAIfIME & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
CROUP
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
* SYDNEY.
LUNG
TZCUBL&
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
ceased to talk Celtic in the last few centuries,
but that doesn’t mean that he has changed
his ancestry. In many parts of Ireland, too,
where Celtic was commonly spoken at the end
of the 18th Century, it is now extinct or
exists only as an artificial revival. But that
has not changed the race of the people.
No man can change the shape of his head
or the color of his hair or eyes. But whole
nations have adopted a hew language. As a
legacy from the Roman Empire, when Latin
was the fashion, there are Latin languages
scattered over Europe from Spain to Rou-
mania, but most of the popular notions about
the “Latin” races are ridiculous. At other
times the language sticks while the com-
position of the people who. speak it is
radically altered. The original Turks were
a race akin to the Mongols, and they brought
into Europe with them their Turanian
language. As a result of the conversion from
subject races, of the taking of White women,
and of other factors the modern Turk has
often very little Mongol blood in him; but
the Turks still speak their original language,
except that it has borrowed many Arabic,
Persian and other words. Much the same is
true of the Magyars of Hungary, originally a
race akin to the Turks. The language lias
persisted but the race has changed.
COLORA MADURA.
The Turk and Two Diggers
Nile to Aleppo, by Captain Hector Din-
ning (George Allen and TJmvin), is a
sumptuous volume with a dozen beautiful
illustrations by James Mcßey. This is not
a war-book, though it deals with some of the
closing stages of the Palestine campaign.
It is more a collection of vivid sketches
of everyday life in “the Middle East,” done
by a little master in his own line, who
plainly revels in his art. He has the eye
of a lynx; and it is particularly piercing
where anything savoring of immorality is
afoot: a certain provincial smugness is one
of the defects of the volume. Captain Din-
ning saw things at the poor old Theatre
Egyptien at Heliopolis that were hidden
from perhaps nine-tenths of the Diggers
who, faute de mieux , patronised its melan-
choly entertainments.
The climate that relaxes the people into laziness
relaxes them into incontinence, too—incontinence of
speech and act. The incontinence of street conver-
sation, whether in word or gesture, is exaggerated
a thousandfold on the stage of revue. The inevitable
moral incontinence appears. No Egyptian theatre
would be patronised that did not exhibit it. There
is the most intense lasciviousness —gestural as well
as vocal —in songs and in dialogue. Though you com-
prehend little of the language, you can usually spot
it by the performer’s expression—but far more accu-
rately by the peculiar quality of the burst of
applause that greets it. There is an unmistakable
prurience in the manner in which the audience
receives a lewd utterance from the stage. You can
feel it at once. The degree and quality of the
licentiousness used in Egypt is almost incomprehen-
sible to Westerners, and almost untranslatable into
their tongue.
The last sentence will evoke a smile from
anyone who knew, say, Genoa, in pre-war
days. Or Brindisi when the I’, and O. ships
called there. Even in Paris, and at places like
the Bal Tabarin, which were visited by tour-
ists of wealth and fashion and their wives,
spectacles were offered which the myrmidons
of the G.O.G. Cairo District would not
have endured. There is a sordidness and
animalism about the viciousness of such
places as Cairo which differentiates it
from that of the European cities; yet with
it all Cairo, under the British, was a mild
spot morally compared with many centres
of Western civilisation.
Captain Dinning has some harsh things
to say about English Army ways with bat-
men and nurses; and, as a. rule, his attitude
towards the Britisher of the officer class
does not; rise above smiling tolerance. Also
incidentally, he makes some remarks about
mules which will scandalise those who have
had experience of these admirable animals ;
and more particularly the men who did
business with them on the Flanders front.
“The physiological reason,” he writes, “for
the mule’s staying powers would be good to
know. It is probably bound up with his
low organisation—-with his entire lack of
sensibility—even intelligence. The highly-
organised horse has an actual mentality;
which cannot be said of the low-down mule.
If the horse were more obtuse lie would
probably last as long in a pull on the roads
as a hybrid.” Let any judge of horseflesh
study the conformation of a good mule, and
he will note some . explanations of the
“dunk’s” astonishing endurance. The enor-
mous barrel—as big in the case of many a
LG-hand Argentine as that of many a well-
bred carthorse —contains lungs and a heart
of proportional size, and a digestive appa-
ratus which jibs at nothing. The muscular
and sound legs and the light forehand are
made for haulage purposes. The only weight
that this traction-engine in equine form has
to carry “in front” is his head; and in the
head of the average mule, with its wide,
flat forehead, is the refutation of the charge
that the breed lacks intelligence. The mule
is able to stay partly because he has brains.
He refuses to be hustled out of the pace
at which he knows he can accomplish his
job; and the good A.I.F. mule-master, of
whom there were some thousands on the
Somme by the time the Armistice arrived,
invariably deferred to this trait in his
charge’s character.
There are some interesting details about
Lieut.-Colonel Lawrence, the archaeologist
from the British Museum, who made the
Hedjaz force a serviceable unit in the opera-
tion against the Turks. But Captain Din-
ning is blistering on Lawrence’s vain and
scoundrelly followers. While he watched
Dinning’s flashlight pictures of their man-
ners and customs, the present writer kept
recalling an exquisite passage in one of Bur-
ton’s books which describes the futile effort
of a boastful marauder of the same sort
to drink the iron-headed explorer under the
table. It is one of the charms of this book
that it keeps recalling things—-things seen,
things read about, things imagined—with
photographic clearness. Another is the fact
that it expresses from end to end the
individuality of the writer: and it is
accordingly, sometimes delightful and some-
times exasperating, but always entertaining.
A Chance with Greece
While the Greek in his greatest days got
on very well without a code of morality at
all, Rome and Jerusalem were developing
straight, hard rules for human life. In the
end the code of Jerusalem gathered up some
additional stiffening from that of Rome and
imposed itself upon Europe. In the break-
ing down of religious systems to-day there
are strange fears in the minds of many that
all the bonds of society must break also and
that the result must be a dangerous moral
anarchy. Take for instance the procedure
of our courts of law. Edmund Burke held
that the very centre of the British Consti-
tution was the jury system—-the plan by
which twelve ordinary citizens adjudge the
guilt of a thirteenth: but the idea might
easily be carried a little farther, and the
very heart of all judicial procedure traced
to an oath which the person swearing feared
to break. To-day. apart from the penalty
for perjury and the tolerably general habit
of telling the truth, the oath does not bind
more than one-third of the consciences it is
supposed to bind. To most kissing “The
Book” is no more than kissing a dictionary ;
and every year the binding power of the
procedure is weaker.
Disaster of a serious and overwhelming
kind might readily follow the Joss of rever-
ence for so many ancient things were it not
for the other forces at work. Set Jew,
Roman and Greek in a row and examine
their moral acts as preserved in history.
The fact stands out rather remarkably that
the Greek was not a worse man than the
others and that in some respects he was
incomparably better. Naturally the ques-
tion arises as to how near the. Greek ideals
of things the modern world is coming; and
attention is or should be focussed on the
Greek spirit as differing from that of the
more conventionally moral peoples.
Of course, in dealing with the Greek, it
is naturally the Athenian person who must
be considered. A little to the north of
Pericles there were Greeks as base and
servile as Asiatics; a little to the west of
Sophocles there were barbarian brigands of
Hellenic blood; a few miles to the south of
Plato there were militaristic persons of
large pretensions with the ignorance of sav-
ages and the arrogance of Germans; while
to the east of Demosthenes were whole
island populations with souls little higher
than those of suburban clerks. Athens did
not stand quite alone in culture as represent-
ing the better Greece; but it is the one large
and important place that is really typical
of the finer Greek spirit. The attitude of
Athens over a magnificent three hundred
years was one of a curious eagerness to
learn and improve, to grasp opportunity,
to believe in the new thing. To this all
its excellence in art, poetry, drama and civil
government can be traced, and out of this
sprang its intense love of beauty and the
truth of which beauty was the expression.
The Athenian could lie to serve a purpose—
lie brilliantly and without any trace of
shame; but he did not lie as a practice.
Lying was too ugly; so was any form of
cheating. He told the truth as well as he
knew it in his history; his drama scourged
falsehood and double-dealing. And he did
not do this because of any Ten Command-
ments, but because of his good taste. He
liked a statue naked because naked it was
true; he liked his architecture honest be-
cause it carried the roof better that way—
and architecture was not in good taste that
did not make the roof safe. So a whole
people reached a top human note without
the definite whip of moral orders. Yet the
foundation was very firm. The Epicurean
philosophers of the Garden believed that
pleasure was the only good, but that pleas-
ure could only be derived from strict tem-
perance in all things—hence the garden. A
garden is a most temperate thing; the quiet
society of men in the open air could not be
otherwise than chaste, calm and orderly.
The Greek notion is the modern world’s
chance. The whip of tradition has lost its
thongs and mislaid its sting. All the thun-
ders of “Thou shalt not” have faded into
mere bleating; and the question becomes an
urgent one whether there is enough good
taste to go round. Picture-films from
America are not exactly sources of a larger
hope.
C. O. M.
Simplicity
It may be only my depravity, but for the
life of me I fail to find anything “incredible”
in Margaret Mackenzie’s line which is quoted
with such detestation by “L.J.11.” (R.P.
9/9/’2O). For anything I know to the con-
trary the souls of men may resemble “bulbs”
- —-just as they may resemble a vacuum or the
shadow of a sardine tin. There is nothing
simpler than the spinning of words and com-
parisons. If you feel that way inclined you
can say that a soul is a patchwork of dreams
and hopes, or echoes of the voice of God, or
of the stuff of sunsets; but it all boils down
to the point that you’re trying to express
something which is inexpressible, and for
such a purpose a lady is entitled to employ
horticulture if she is so inclined.
I read “L.J.H.’s” biting questions upon
Yeats with the greatest care, but must con-
fess that I cannot answer him. He asks why
Yeats should sigh for nine bean rows and not
two, or green bean rows. As a matter of fact,
the process could be carried further, and
doubt could be cast upon the poet’s sanity
for wishing to have beans at all —cauliflowers
or water-melons might show a greater return,
while if he planned an extension of his pre-
mises to provide for nine week-enders his
position would be much sounder. Not being of
an inquiring nature myself, I will leave that
to "L.J.H.’ and live happy in the belief that
the “nine” lifts the line from the common-
place and makes it poetry. In my darkness
I do not understand the rules by which poetry
is made, but I know it when I feel it.
“L.J.11.” on High Olympus must pity me as
an earthling.
He insists also that it is necessary to sit
under a tree to see fairies and that the stage
is no place for them. I have much pleasure
in confiding to him that I once saw nine
fairies dancing on the parapet of the Mel-
bourne Morgue in broad daylight.
DALE C.
A Satchel of Books
Adventures in Marriage, by Ward Muir
(Siinpkin, Marshall). Short stories on the
same theme. Well enough done; but few
are striking, and there is an unpleasant flavor
about several.
In the Days of My Youth, by 11. Waller
(published at Buenos Aires). A little book
of rather clever verses with South Ameri-
can color. The subjects are mostly local
and topical, and the lines sometimes jolt;
but there is a breeziness which makes it
attractive.
A Dear Fool, by “Artemas” (W'estall).
A bright little yarn, which has all the ele-
ments of a good detective story without the
police, the murder or the gasp. Plenty of
humor and some cheerful satire; and the
whole thing, though of the lightest construc-
tion, is novel and entertaining.
The Red Lady, by Katharine Nowlin Burt
(Houghton, Mofflin Co., N. York, through
the Australasian Publishing Co.). This is
a story of the highly improbable and the
utterly incredible, laid in the Southern
States, though there is no local color to give
value to what is otherwise valueless.
Sonnica, by Biased Ibanez (Pong and Co.,
London). An attempt to do in the style of
Flaubert’s “Salammbo” Hannibal’s famous
siege of Saguntum. Probably the yarn has
lost some of its color in the translation from
Spanish, but even allowing for that there
seems a want of descriptive power and his-
torical balance. The main figures are the
ex-courtesan Sonnica, her Greek lover and
Hannibal; but none of them have much
reality.
Shot with Crimson, by George Barr
McCutcheon (Herbert Jenkins). This is a
yarn of German, plotting. The arch-plotter
is a New York society lady of German
descent, who is the wife of a good American.
In the end her husband is convinced of her
treason, and gives her the opportunity to
do away with herself, while the police
politely wait to save the family scandal. A
breathless yarn, well written, but rather
hard to swallow.
The Savagery of Margaret Nestor, by
Jack McLaren (N.S.W. Bookstall Co.).
This is McLaren’s third Bookstall yarn, and
it carries the reader over a wide stretch of
Bananaland, peopled by Binghis, tin-fossick-
ers, sandalwood experts, and other strange
animals. Barring a few gins, there is only
one female in the story, but she is a Cleo-
patra with a dash of Annie Besant luring
Outbackers with her eyes, and completing
the conquest with her conversation. Mar-
garet Nestor is the author’s best heroine to
date, and the whole yarn shows improved
technique.
'Tween Clyde and Tweed, Scots Verse,
by Gilbert Rae (Erskine Macdonald). Why
“Scots” verse is knbwn only to the gods of
the mist. “Scottish” and “Scotch” are under-
standable, but the other form is a great mys-
tery ; yet in that very usage lies the explana-
tion of a book like this.' The verse is even,
good in form and perfectly commonplace;
but it is in the dialect of a portion of North
Britain and has an appeal that passes the
mere reader of English. Burns gripped
the world in a similar tongue, and is probably
a great deal more sympathetically under-
stood outside Scotland than at the meetings
of the Burns Club ; but he has had no suc-
cessor. Rae is for Scotch consumption only.
His verse will give a lot of pleasure apart
from its poetic value.
Songs of War and Peace, by Edward
Harrington (Fraser and Jenkinson, Mel-
bourne). The author, who was lately a
trooper in the A.L.H., asks for a merciful
judgment on these verses because some of
them were written at the age of 13, and
many of the rest before the age of 20. The
excuse should be ruled out. When a man
publishes the work of his childhood he must
be prepared to stand to it; yet here in
matter of expression there is not much to
apologise for. The younger work is, on
the whole, fresher than that of the years
that followed. All the verse goes with a
tolerably steady tramp along the dusty high-
way of ordinary rhyming. There is a fair
amount of skill, but very little inspiration.
Themes like “Kitchener of Khartoum,” “In
Defence of Chamberlain” and “The
Cripple’s New Year’s Eve” are not likely to
produce poetry.
The Inky Way
An ambitious proposal for an “Australian
National Institute of the Arts and Litera-
ture,” for which JE. A. Vidler is acting as
sponsor pro tern., has been put forward in
Melbourne. The idea is to have an Institute
made up of closely-affiliated sections, each
paddling its own canoe, but uniting to form
an executive council of the “recognised
leaders” (who is to do the recognising is to
be settled later) in each profession. There
is talk of prizes and distinctions for the
best achievements of each year in the arts
and in literature, the formation of art,
musical and literary societies all over the
place as well as the fostering of those in
existence already, and the establishing of
art museums and public reference libraries.
It is also proposed to have in each State
capital a central meeting-place for artists,
musicians and writers. The whole thing is
in the rough at present, and suggestions—.
particularly from “recognised leaders” —will
be received in a thankful spirit.
After appearing every week for nearly 30
years the Monitor, the official Catholic
newspaper in the Speck, has given up the
struggle. _ A wages-board award, on top of
the soaring cost and growing scarcity of
paper, is blamed for sending up the shutters.


|;S|. BM
- I HI
Road round the
World
IT criss-crosses every continent.
And every section of it differs.
Yet there is a type of ‘United
States’ tyre that exactly fits every
possible road surface.
‘United States’ tyres have five dis-
tinct and different treads, which
appeal to Australasian motorists.
They are called: ‘Royal Cord,*
‘Nobby,’ ‘Chain,’ ‘Usco,’ and ‘Plain’.
They are made by the world’s
largest rubber manufacturer.
United States Rubber Company
(Australasia) Limited,
S 3 York Street, Sydney.
130-2 William Street, Melbourne .
78 Pirie Street, Adelaide .
United States’ Ti res
Are Good Tires
Obtainable from all leading garages and
IV. A. SORRELL, 157 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. LAUNCESTON : Irvine & McEachern.
QUEENSLAND : Howard Motor & Cycle Co. Ltd, Brisbane. HOBART: Burgess Bros. Ltd.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Ltd., Perth.


-v
£5
$5
:.;T
Vo o
3
&
o
?<?<£
$5
8%
G
&N>
s
N
29
/
“Granny" Chamberlain
(Copy ted)
y/* cottf&L&v* *lO j
C>/viu*U I
TH&tfiJ&viir
Ot Offy Ao/tC&tlC'
WIY BE S T
BABIES
I am often asked why
Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is best for
babies.
There] are several
reasons.
First: It is perfectly
harmless and can be
given with every confi-
dence to the youngest
and most delicate child.
Secondly: It contains
no alcohol, opium, chloro-
form. morphine or any
other narcotic.
You not only have the
manufacturers’ assur-
ance of this. The wrap-
per around each bottle
bears a copy of the
Government Analyst’s
report, showing that it
has been officially de-
dared free from all
narcotics.
Thirdly: Children like
it and no persuasion is
needed to get them to
take it.
For the above reasons
alone it is impossible to
get a better medicine for
babies than Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy.
Since Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy is the
only cough medicine sold
in Australasia that has
been officially declared
free from all narcotics I
think it is every mother’s
duty to dve this medi-
cine to her children when
they are suffering from
coughs, colds, croup,
whooping cough or
bronchitis.
ESE KW
% COUCH REMEDY V
Economy
Economy depends on total value
received and not on first cost.
In this respect the Goodrich Silver-
town Cord Tyre is the most econom-
ical tyre made.
The most expensive car demands
no less in beauty and durability, while
the moderately priced car cannot afford
to do without the economy of pro-
longed service. It need not be with-
out the distinction which the Silver-
town Cord Tyres give any car.
Goodrich tyres are dependable.
DUVAL 8 CO.,
Sydney,
Melbourne
& Brisbane
Farmers’ Co-operative Union, Adelaide
Good rio
%
&
(9
m
Young-age pensions continue to grow in
Vic. The rate now to be paid is a maximum
of Bs. a week per child boarded-out to its
own or a foster-parent, and it is costing
£30,000 a year to give the latest rise of a
shilling a week.
“The Wanderer”: Old Tom Dillon, the
last full-blooded Hawkesbury River native,
has been transferred from Newcastle to Lid-
combe Asylum. J. J. Moloney, of Newcastle,
has asked the Minister for Education to
take an interest in Tom. and if possible to
get his life history recorded, for the old chap’s
mind is clear and his memory alert.
Captain White, the Adelaide naturalist,
Wants an abo. reserve in the Musgrave and
Everard Ranges, away in the nor’-west corbel*
of S. Australia. In his natural history ex-
plorations, he found some 2000 black brothers
there, as yet hardly in touch at all with the
white man, and he Wants them to be-pro-
tected from syphilisation before it is too
late.
“Medico”: An echo of BroadmeadowS
(Vic.) camp. At a concert a soldier got
up on the platform and said that Private
Putties was wanted at headquarters. Of
course there was a bird in the audience who
had to be funny about it: “He cut his throat
trying to. lick the jam out of a tin.” Quick
as a flash came the reply: “That’ll never
happen to you! Your tongue’s too
long!”
Spurred on by Director Tate the Vic.
Government has determined to raise the age
for compulsory attendance at elementary
schools from 14 to 15. On the subject of
“continued education” after 14 only a flabby
declaration lias been made. “The question
must be faced,” Lawson admits, and then
doesn’t face it—a .scheme “must develop
slowly.” Still, Victoria has travelled a
good many miles educationally since the
Irvine Government) 17 years ago, proposed
(unsuccessfully) to make a charge for child-
ren kept at school after 13 if they had passed
a certain standard.
“Hamer”: The hostility between a well-
known sportive barrister and a Judge goes
back five years to a case in which the pleader
was in a playful mood. His jesting interjec-
tions when counsel for the other side was
examining witnesses annoyed the Judge so
much that finally ’S’onah said that, but for
the press of business awaiting his attention,
he would adjourn the case until the offender
Was more fit to proceed. “If your Honor,”
replied the barrister imperturbably, “was
only as drunk as I am you would be able
to see the relevancy of my interjections,”
’S’onah has never forgiven him.
It is a blank day when the present N.S.W.
Government doesn’t get a bright idea in
paper finance. Lately it has had three —
Treasurer Lang’s lottery with bonds for
prizes; Mutch’s scheme for local borrowing
without interest to build schools; and Dunn’s
idea of issuing “wheat notes.” If the Federal
Government is slow in paying its guarantee
of ss. per bushel, Dunn says he will “fall
back on the issue of wheat notes” and hand
out the ten millions or so himself. Of course
State Governments can’t issue notes; but
that doesn’t matter. The Constitution doesn't
Say that State Governments mttstn’t talk
about it.
“Boro-Belle”: Encouraged by the giddy
price of rum, the nine sugar factories in
Mackay (Q.) have decided to go in for a
distillery to treat the million and a half
gallons of molasses available from each
year’s crushing. Some 30 years ago, when
the extraction of sugar was not reduced to
the fine art it is to-day, Mackay rum had a
name as a champion producer of green
spiders. Then the price of the spirit fell; and a
new generation of swollen-headed sugar
people, who despised the smaller by-products,
let the business go, with the result that of
late years there has been appalling waste.
As the farmers will benefit, indirectly at any
rate, the new enterprise starts with their
cheers.
“Malua” (Fiji) : “Dr. Nil” is right about
Germans being no horsemen (B. 22/7/’2O
and 3/6/’2O), and the arguments on the other
side used by “Dobritz Camp” would not con-
vince anyone with first-hand knowledge.
The fact that some British cavalry were
captured by an inferior number of Huns
proves nothing. It was not a question of
horsemanship at all. but of equipment —the
same thing that made the whole Hun army
.so successful at the start. Not that the
British cavalry is anything to write home
about. I was in one of the crack lots (6th
Dragoon Guards), and I can assure “Dob-
ritz Camp” that a big percentage of the men
could only manage their mounts when jambed
in by the others. I joined with several
other Aussies who thought they could ride.
One was. in fact, considered a champion.
But we all had to “learn to ride” again for
the 6th D.G.’s, though when the mounted
sports came round we won the whole pro-
gramme against the old-timers. In the British
Army the Italian and Belgian cavalry are
spoken of as the best in the world; the Hun
and British are both a joke.
N. S. Wales is to be “represented” at the
International Trades Union Congress in Lon-
don by Garden, of the Labor Council, who
will probably contrive to be taken as the
spokesman of Australia. Garden isn’t an
Australian, but an imported nuisance, like
the rabbit and the cactus. He isn’t a
worker, but an ex-parson. Unless news-
paper reports were outrageously imaginative
he was the bumptious outsider who bade
Storey, the people's native-born Premier,
to concern himself with other things and
leave industrial matters to Garden and the
handful of people who support him. This
handful are almost entirely males, for women
are practically disfranchised and cut no
figure in union matters; some of them are
aliens or under age, and they would only
amount, if all the 255,899 unionists of the
State supported Garden (which they don’t,
for the big A.W.U. is most unfriendly), to a
fourth of the voting power which the Assem-
bly, the body that created Storey, stands for.
Even then Garden owes his appointment as
0.8. U. ambassador to a majority of two at
a meeting of 96, so he should be prevented
under the law against the misdescription of
goods from professing that he represents the
most populous State of the Commonwealth
and that his imported sentiments are its also.


A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Manicure Set, finest-quality
Instruments, plain design, £4/10/-
— — ...... ...
Rssizl
A. Saunders’ Silver-mounted Shoe Hook, Glove Hook and Lift in
silk-lined case, plain design, 25/-. Larger size, 35/-
A. Saunders’ Handkerchief Box, pure silver-plated A 1 quality,
richly chased “Ribbon” design, silk-lined, £5/5/-
A. Saunders’ Bedroom or Travelling Watch
Case, Solid Silver, “hammered” design.
Complete with Watch, 30/-
Without watch, 20/-
isggsggem
TO
Ik
,T*v
$
. &
: 11
J-T,
? '■ ctwpc;to
if' " - ICyS
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Silver Toilet Set, in silk-lined
case, daintily engraved, finest-quality Bristles, bevelled-edge
mirror, £5." Others, £6/10/-, £7/10/-, £lO/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street
(opp. Railway Station), Sydney.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Solid Silver Brush Sec, com
prising two Hair Brushes and Comb, 55/-
A. Saunders’ Hat or Cloth Brush, Solid Silver,
finest-quulity bristles, 35/-
m
%
rrtrss
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Ebony Brush Set, Sterl-
ing Silver Shields, finest-quality bristles, in
leather case, 45/-
IF* TO
X.
w,
\
fOmm
<e
\
m
m
fitJfis
r-
stefeK
mm
\sr^ "'
•«\
M,
Write to-day to Nestle’s, 347 Kent Street,
Sydney, for Free Copy of a Valuable
Cookery Book containing over 100 recipes
for cooking with
Perfect scones —perfect
cakes, puddings and blanc-
manges when you cook
with Nestle’s Milk.
“ Nestle s ” cooking is
both economical and easy.
You save eggs, sugar and
butter —you save trouble
Nestle’s Condensed Milk
Made in Australia .


A
A A
The Man
Who Grasps a
RABBIT
gains some money.
Prices a<re not what
they were. But
they are still good.
For Top Market Values consign RABBIT,
FOX, KANGAROO and other skins:—
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.,
Sydney or Brisbane.
Salesmen only.
S£Newßiscuits
They are the things to break
a hunger strike with—no-
body can resist them! Put a
few of them on the luncheon
table and see how quickly
they will disappear. And
they’re nourishing diet, too
—made of choice materials
only, and packed with ex-
treme care so that nothing
shall detract from their
charm.
YOUR GROCER SELLS THEM.
slxlv Cr ftcznelies'
k
B.S.A.
RIDE A B.S.A.
FOR HEALTH
Make the most of your leisure hours
by recruiting your health in the fresh
air. You can get away at once, with-
out any preparation, alone or with a
companion, and enjoy every minute of
the ride. The gentle exercise gained
will keep you fit, and the fresh air will
give that necessary tonic which will
keep depression and care away.
Reliability, comfort and ease of control
are all studied in the construction
and design of B.S.A. Fittings. The
experience of years are at the back of
every machine and the strength and
finish make long service inevitable —
but be sure of genuine B.S.A. Fittings,
they are most economical in the end.
RIDE A BICYCLE BUILT OF
GENUINE
ftttinqs
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
All B.S.A. Fittings are
guaranteed interchangeable.
SEND FOR B.S.A HANDBOOK FREE.
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
JtBSPPMi
HB
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS!
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brooknmn Buildings.
“A.W.” “ T.Y.R.” “A.W. PREMIER.”
ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH.
HIGH-SPEED DRILLS. HIGH-SPEED STEEL.
Sole Australian Representatives.—
I_J__ O f 1.1 115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VallDert Loage OZ LO. Ltd., 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Inter-State Stocking Agents:—
A. SCOTT & CO., 164 Edward Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, Etd., Woranda Bldgs., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay Street, Perth.
Manufactured by
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.,
Manchester, England.
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
the: palace hotel
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KINO
SCRUBS S-AMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATIOH OF INSECT BITES.
Of all Grocers, Chemists, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
r V,
Jt-
*
e Tmvh
*
To the large army of sufferers afflicted with
Rheumatism, Gout, Calculosis, Migraine, Eczema,
Obesity and Acid Dyspepsia.
Take courage, for URODONAL dissolves uric acid as easily as
warm water dissolves sugar, and eliminates it without your being
aware of it.
Therefore, cast aside sticks and crutches, and straighten yourself as in the days
of youth and health. URODONAL will even permit you to eat meat and other
favorite dishes to your heart’s content. Salicylate, colchicum and iodides (by
means of which temporary relief is procured at the cost of disastrous aftei-effects)
are entirely superseded by URODONAL. Ihanks to URODONAL, the ob
regain their normal proportions, the weary take on a new lease ol life, anc
worn society woman regains and retains a clear and healthy complexion, thi OUo
the blood-purifying properties of this preparation URODONAL is the gea
discovery of the century, and is a boon to all; it is the secret of perpetual j out ,
the means of salvation for the thousands of victims or uncaema.
PREPARED BY ETABLISSEMENTS CHATELAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 10/9.
Can be obtained from all Chemists > or from
„ , ...... I \ IVH ATTSTR4T ASIAN AGENCY, 3»3 RENI SIREM, > Iro ™
AUSTRALASIAN Bpoklet containing Medical Opinions. [1
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Broker”: Shortage of casks has been
worrying Australian vignerons since 1918
The finest “packages” in use until a few
years ago were made from Hungarian oak
and chestnut. But the cask of 1914 at
255. is unobtainable, and any good hogshead
(60 gallons) is now worth £5 or £6. Euro-
pean timber being out of the question,
stringy-bark, mountain-ash, myrtle and jar-
rah have been tried; but Queensland silky
elm gives most promise, and extensive experi-
ments with this wood are to be continued in.
Adelaide.
* * * *
“Works Depot”: As far as I remember,
three different methods of supering round
logs have appeared in The Bulletin, viz.
(1) The trade method, quarter of girth squared by
length by 12.
(3) Girth squared by length minus a quarter of
the total.
(3) Girth by length by three-quarters of girth.
If “Tallow Wood” takes the trouble to work
out the super, feet in a log of 12 feet girth
and 20 feet in length by any pf the above
methods he will find the result the same in
each case, viz., 2160 super, feet.
# * # *
“Sunnybank” : Re the selection of female
pawpaw plants. I live in the middle of a
community that farms pawpaws, and, in-
cidentally, I farm five acres of them myself.
We have given up fancy schemes for choos-
ing the right plant. We reckon that about
33 per cent, are females, so we set them out
about 4ft. apart in the rows, and when they
flower we cut out the males and any super-
fluous ladies, chaffing them for cows and
horses. The big business here is in sending
green pawpaws to the factory for chutney ;
for these we net £l2 per ton. At this
stage the milky-looking juice is very astrin-
gent, and after a day’s picking the finger-
tips bleed owing to the action of the juice
on the skin. lam trying it on corns, and if
successful will give readers the benefit of
my experience.
* * * *
“Wandi”: Agisting bees is a new joint
in the backbone of our great natural re-
sources. While the recent drought wiped
out many apiaries, E. E. Abram—late of
Beecroft, now of Berrima (N.S.W.) —whose
father founded the first queen-raising apiary
in Australia, saved his hives by shifting
them to Queanbeyan. He has had them on
agistment ever since, shifting them from
place to place where flowering eucalypts
were available. What with ringbarking and
firing, the bees’ happy hunting-ground be-
comes more attenuated every year; and
thousands of the trees destroyed are in
nobody’s way. The fool with the axe wants
civilising as much as the bird murderer
does.
* * * *
For upwards of 60 years Westralia has
been exporting sandalwood to China. Since
1857 it has sent away 320,000 tons for a
return of £2,800,000, or less than £9 a ton,
and there are only 120,000 tons left. Be-
latedly it has realised that 501 b. of oil,
worth 225. a pound, can be extracted from
a ton of wood, and two distillers who
have gone into the business are mak-
ing money. Rightly handled, the industry
would have lasted as long as Westralia lasts,
but a complaisant Legislature having granted
cutters the right to destroy saplings, it looks
as if sandalwood will be extinct in 20 years.
In short, the day may come when Australia
will be importing its own sandalwood from
Timor, or some other country, just as it.
imports its own wattle-bark from Africa.
NATURE’S HIGH APPRECIATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Federal Treasurer larded his Budget speech
with many inspiring references to ‘the timely
rains,’ the land ‘spread with living green,’ our
‘magnificent resources,’ and the hearty moral tone
of the sheep and the lambs, combined with the chaste
satisfaction of the cows of the country.”
Oh, wicked, wicked, to complain
Of what Joe Cook is spending,
When softly falls the pretty rain,
And with the subsoil blending
It makes the sweet, green grass to grow !
Sit not on trouble dwelling,
Forget our needs and what we owe,
For rivers flow,
And all a-row
The cabbages are swelling.
They stick it on your income-tax,
The debt’s a woeful burden;
But all along the Gippsland tracks
The wattle’s golden guerdon
Is scattering upon the breeze.
What sense then in repining ?
Some millions more they mean to squeeze
From postage fees,
But on the trees
The lovely sun is shining.
Likewise the little dicky-birds
Are singing in the gum boughs;
From some folks’ most lugubrious words
You’d think we’d only dumb boughs.
Why worry o’er the cost of things,
And what Joe Cook is risking ?
The gay rosella plumes his wings
Where high he swings,
And round in rings
The little chicks are frisking.
The gatherer of taxes looms
More greedy and insistent.
But what of that? The bluebell blooms,
And hills are green, if distant. ,
It’s time enough with Joe to fight
When peas begin to languish,
The crop of bunyips dies of fright,
Owls cry all night,
And all is blight
And nature lies in anguish.
Remember, if you have no bread,
And Bulk, the landlord, forces
You to vacate your humble shed,
Our wonderful resources!
If you have only aqueous swigs,
Regard the frisky fountains,
And dear Joe Cook, and Hughes, and Higgs
In Watteau rigs
All dancing jigs
With lambkins on the mountains!
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


One Half-million Builders
of Goodwill.
Dodge Brothers business has just reached
and nassed another milestone in its
history.
In a little over five years more than one-
half million Dodge Brothers Motor Cars
have been placed in the hands of
Owners.
This is a notable record for five years, even
in an industry which has been marked
by many amazing achievements. For
a first five years it stands absolutely
unique and alone.
There have been no bursts of speed in the
upbuilding of this great business.
At no time has there been even an attempt
at stimulation of sales or of produc-
tion.
Never for a single day has production been
speeded up for the sake of obtaining a
total.
On the contrary, it has been held down
every day within the limits of close,
careful, conscientious manufacturing.
Both production and sajes have been stable,
steady and spontaneous—scrupulous
care on the one producing huge volume
in the other.
If this sales record represented the appeal
of the price, the total would not be
particularly impressive.
The important thing is, that the car is not
thought of in terms of price, but in
terms of value.
How often you hear the car spoken of—and
how seldom the price?
It is the quality of thought that surrounds
it which makes this success note-
worthy.
Because people think well of this car, it is
still impossible for Dodge Brothers to
build enough of them.
Seldom has there been a finer example of
the force of friendly thoughts.
It is an inspiration and an encouragement
to. build well—because the reward, in
this country, is so great and so sure.
With nothing but goodwill towards them in
our country’s homes —how could Dodge
Brothers do less than they have done?
Nothing has checked or hindered, for so
much as a single week, the continued
bestowal of this recognition and reward.
The eagerness to own the car is greater
to-day than ever it has been.
The reason is not far to seek.
Take first the mere numerical ownership.
Remember that the satisfaction of one half-
million owners is not casual, but deep
and profound.
Multiply them by the average family of
even three.
Remember that all of these are warm
friends.
Then think of that leaven of thought
leavening the whole mass.
You will begin to understand, then, why
Dodge Brothers have been building new
buildings ever since the business began.
You will understand why the works in
which the car is built are still steadily
spreading and expanding.
You will get an idea of how much men can
do when the homes of this country are
solidly behind them.
DddgeErqthers
MOTOR CAR
With Dodge Brothers, building motor cars is a seri-
ous business—each and every Dodge Brothers
Motor Car is worthy of the very best they can
give it.
They look upon every sale as a binding business
agreement to deliver certain definite results to the
buyer.
That this policy has attracted to this car the sub-
stantial and serious-minded buyers of the world is
a great source of satisfaction to them.
If is further assurance, too, if any were needed,
that the quality of the car will steadily improve.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
Dodge Brothers
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty.j X,td.,
Melbourne.
Canada Cycle & Motor /_~;rcy (Queensland) Ltd.,
Brit. .
Standardised Motors., Limited,
Sydney.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
Cheney Motor C 0.., I.id
Adelaide.
SAFEGUARD YOUR HEALTH
OrJ.Collfe Browne’s
CMonfre
The Original and Only Gennine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOK
Coughs, Co/ds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
ACTS LIKE
A well-proved palliative
in the pains o 1 GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery ,
SOLD IN BOTTLES.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3 and 8/-.
Made in England.
c.
A HAIRDRESSING
SALOON.
Perfect in
Equipment.
The finest in Sydney. Every
modern appointment, conveni-
ence and comfort.
Craig & Aitken’s Saloon Employs
Seven Expert Hairdressers—
men whose training and experi-
ence have been gained in the
best saloons of the world.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY will
find Craig and Aitken’s Saloon
conveniently near the Central
Railway Station —almost next
door to Anthony Horderns’.
Prompt Service Guaranteed.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR, here
illustrated, and fox which
Craig and Aitken’s are Sole
Agents in Australia, is the Razor
we have used in our Saloon for
over 30 years.
PRICE 12/6 POST FREE;
Pair in Double Case, 25/-
or
Send lor
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 Georgs Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
cnsland
c allin£>
To the Tourist, Scientist, Investor
and, with a hundred voices from her millions
of acres, to the Man in search of Land.
Free Information on all subjeers
available at once on receipt of this coupon.
Nairn*
Adrlrea
Queensland Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Brisbane. —-F~
S.B.
GENUINE; PICKERING
GOVERNORS. All Types,
Jin. to 4 inches.
Intercolonial
Boring'Co. Ltd.
BRISBANE,
Engineers’ Merchants, Manufacturers.
Engineering Requisites of all Descriptions.
Hercules Windmills Hercules Oil Engines Hercules Boring Plants
1.8. C. Horizontal Steam Engines 1.8. C. Walking Beam Pumping Plants
1.8. C. Brass Artesian & Well-PumptCylinders 1.8. C. Centrifugal Pumps
1.8. C. Power Working Heads 1.8. C. Syphon Windmill Pumps
Sheep and Cattle Troughingr,! Cast Iron and
Pulleys, Circular Saw Benches and ' Spindles,
London Pattern Blocks, etc., cite.
Wrought Steel
Crab Winches,
Offices and Warehouses—4lB-424 and 450-460 Ann Street,
Brisbane. Works—Yeerongpilly.
(Trams pass near by.l


Holeproofs are made by
scientific methods, de-
veloped only in recent
years.
(Dearers of Holeproof know
the comfort and con-
venience of always having
perfect Ho siery soft,
neatly-fitting, stylish.
These qualities are all em-
bodied in
“ HOLEPROOF ”
HOSIERY.
Special methods of knitting
Holeproofs multipig their
durabilitg.
If gour dealer cannot supplg
gou, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:—From 17/6 per day.
10/- per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
WARATAH
PENcihic Wire
m
LSTBA
Fencing Wire
Tighter Strain Lower Cost-
Superior to imported Wire
are just three advantages gained
by buying WARATAH WIRE. It
stays rigid and assures perma-
nency.
From the Ore to the Fence Aus-
tralian.—Get Booklet N.ld.
AUSTRAL NAIL CO. PTY. LTD.
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
a
It
JL
KEEPS CONTENTS
Ice-Cold 72 hrs. Hot 24 hrs.
Icy-Hot Bottles are
ideal for all climates
and are made for
hard usage.
Extra Protection is
ensured by a coiled
spring and pad under
bottle which absorbs
jolts and jars and
makes the bottle
practically unbreak-
able.
Absolutely
Sanitary,
because the
'hawing Made in various Spring - tight
Bottle size s and styles neck - fitting
de-mounted from 16,-finl up. prevents
leakage of liquid into the outer
case.
The Name ICY-HOT clearly
stamped on the bottom of each
bottle is a guarantee of the
Standard of Perfection.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES.
Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
The ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.,
150 West Second Street,
Cincinnati, Ohio, TT.S.A.
Icy-Hot Jar
for solid food
or ice-cream.
BALL
BEARINGS
The factory engineer who installs SKF
Self-Aligning Ball Bearings throughout his
plant has done the utmost towards reaching
highest efficiency with maximum economy,
for SKFs save from 50% to 100% of their
value yearly.
SKF Bull Bearings are made from Swedis h
Crucible Steel, are accurately finished and uniformly
hard thoughout.
SBCF* Bearings do NOT become hot, hence
they prevent loss of power due to excessive
friction. They assure smooth, free running,
saving of power, saving of belts and supreme
durability.
Specify SKI 7 Bearings (the World’s
best) for every part of your plant that
needs bearings.
GARDNER,
W£RN
& CO.,
i Power & Light
Engineers.
MELBOURNE—
-384 Olty Road.
Showrooms—
-369 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY-
-225 Clarenoe St,
BRISBANE-
-367 Queen Stree
SKF
mm
A PERFECT
SHAVE.
It’s British.
If
NORMAN
unable to procure send Postal Note to their Representatives.
BAKER & LONGHURST, 50 York Street, SYDNEY.
328 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
Christopher Johnson & Co.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Their Famous Full Hollow-Ground
Metropolitan Razor.
PRICE 10/6,
Of all Stores.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St. f Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about
Accumulated Funds exceed
Annual Income nearly ..
£1,207,933
£2,070,000
£41,000,000
£6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
OSTER Power Screwing Machines meet the demand for an outfit
for all pipe-screwing jobs, such as long or short, straight or bent,
over- or under-size pipe, and nipples of any length.
THEY ARE PROCURABLE FROM OUR DISTRIBUTORS
Chas. Atkins & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), lAd.,. Perth.
John Danks & Son Pty.. Ltd., Sydney.
John Danks & Son Pty., lAd., Melbourne.
Parke & Lacy Co. Ltd., Sydney.
R. 1,. Scrutton & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Swans, Ltd., Sydney.
Fredc. Ash, Ltd., Newcastle.
And many other Machinery, Hardware and Plumbers Merchants.
SPARE DIES AND PARTS CARRIED IN STOCK.
Factory Representative: CHARLES WRIGHT, 16 Hunter Street, Sydney.
The
STER
MANUFACTURING CO.
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.S.A.,
Screwing Tackle Specialists.
[4
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Sturt is again champion of S. Aus. at
lacrosse. In the final match it "obliterated East
Torrens, the next best, scoring 10 goals to nil. The
Sturt players have now won seven consecutive pre-
mierships—in fact, they have been premiers 11 times
in 16 years.
Though the Speck has no foxes (thank the
Lord!) the Midland Hunt Club meets every week
during the winter to follow the hounds. They do
things in style, too. The usual day’s sport is two
or three runs after kangaroos, and on their lucky
days they get a run after deer. They are not tame
deer either, and the fences consist of anything from
chock-and-log to hedges and wire.
* * * *
Joe Kirkwood had an easy task in the
M.L. open golf championship, and won with 304
from A. W. East and S. Morpeth (each with 315).
He was the only player to beat 80 in either of the
four rounds, and the best was 72 in the first. The
four-ball challenge match between Kirkwood and
East (Australia) and Douglas and lies (M.L.) helped
the touring Australians to another win—two up and
one to play.
C. B. Fry, making one of his now rare
appearances for Hampshire lately, scored 137 out
of 290, and set journalists talking about his still
being a Test-match possibility. The only other
batsman on the side to do anything (62) was Lionel
Tennyson, who was a small boy here long ago, when
his father was Governor of South Aus. and afterwards
Governor-General. He was booked for the amateur
tour to M.L. if it had come off,
A Tasmanian sportsman, VV. J. Souther-
wood, must have felt mighty pleased with himself at
the recent Hobart meeting. Nags belonging to him
managed to annex three of the events on the card.
The Hurdle was won by Drawing, the llighweight
Handicap by Captain Standish, and the Jumpers’
Flat with Evitca (which is the sire’s name spelt
backwards) ; and the same jockey, Itiddell, was in
the saddle on each occasion. The rider must be a
bit above the ordinary, like the owner’s luck.
* * * *
There is one female trainer on the Ken-
sington training track —Miss Irene Mutton, daughter
of James Mutton, a well-known Randwick man. She
has in hand a two-year-old gelding, by Flippant (imp.)
from Nullified. In the ’sixties Sydney had a lady owner
and trainer at Mundarrah, Little Coogee—a Miss
Dickson, daughter of Dr. Dickson. There was trouble
over the running of her horses, and she migrated to
Eltham (Vic.), where she started a stud farm.
“Graeme”: Hugh Trumble, described 20
years ago as “the best international all-rounder bar
Noble,” is 52 and could pass for less but for his
snowy thatch. Trumble senior used to take boy
Hughie to the crease, mark a spot with a white
feather, and' keep him bowling at it for hours—
which accounts for his subsequent fame as a “length”
bowler. I recall seeing Spofforth bowl from one
end and Trumble from the other: both stood 6ft. Sin.
high and both were then officers of the National Baiilc.
* * * *
Some members of the British rifle team
now here on business are not strangers. Colonel P.
W. Richardson captained the visiting Britishers in
1907. He is one of the world’s best, and between
1881 and 1919 bagged 1210 prizes representing in
cash £lBl2, besides half a ton of silverware. He
was O.C. and Inspector of Sniping Schools during
the w r ar. Lieut. E. McCue is a former Melbourne
resident, and Lieut. A. E. Martin shot here in 1907.
The team comprises 12 men, with several emergen-
cies.
* * * *
The Maorilander J. R. Hooper, the Aus-
tralasian billiards champion, having walloped the
Victorian Luft, has been nominated by cable for the
championship of England, and the Association has
wired acceptance. This will be the first time a man
from this end of the earth has entered the amateur
pit in England as an accredited representative,
and if Hooper gets sufficient practice and his eye-
sight does not" give out he may bring home the bacon.
During the war young Fay played in the champion-
ship, but he did not have the standing that Hooper's
nomination carries.
* * * *
The movement in S. Aus. for licensing
bookmakers—who have for 30 years been utterly
illegal there —has not much hope at the moment. A
Council-of-Churches deputation against it was stopped
after the first five minutes by Premier Barwell, who
said it was unnecessary to go on. “To my mind,
bookmakers are a curse, and no attempt to legalise
them will have my support.” He believes that the
frequent police-court fines are paid out of a common
fund, and he promises an Act this session which
will make it gaol for a second offence.
* * * *
The M.L. amateur championship pro-
duced the finest golf show in the Dominion for many
moons. S. Morpeth v. H. B, Lusk in the semi-final
was a clinking game, and Morpeth prevailed by the
narrowest of margins—one up. Dr. Ross was much
too good for E. Hickson in the other semi-final, and
won by three up and two to play. In the early
stages of the final Ross looked like having a run-
away win, but Morpeth caught him and led with 78
against 81 in the first round. In the afternoon Mor-
peth cleared right out, and won by the big margin
of eight up and six to play. The winner is s
farmer of the backblocks near Ivuiti, and only 23.
“Silas Snell”: A Melbourne pug who made
a sensational passage through the feathers and light-
weight fighters of his State explains to me his sudden
and dramatic failure to go further. “You know I
had everythin’ in my class laid out cold,” said he,
“and I was startin’ to gnaw my way into the welters,
when 1 had that scrap with Long Tom. Remember
him—a lean, tough, eleven-stone man from the Port?
I could have made mince of him, on’y he knew one
thing too many. He’d learned me little weakness
some’ow, and that was the smell iv them graveyard
flowers, toober-roses they call ’em. I could have
lived ’tween a fellmonger’s and a tannery all
a hot summer, but two sniffs of toober-roses turned
me head-over-tip. You may recollee’ ’ow I was
puttin’ it all over the long-un in the first two rounds,
’n’ how he simply ate me in the third. The reason
was he come up fer that round smeared with the
scent iv toober-roses, and I was done like a dinner.
After that every mug in the game got me the same
way. I couldn’t go into a ring without bein’ stunk
out with toober-rose. I got to claimin’ a foul for
it, but the referee he gives his decision, “A scent
ain’t no foul,” an’ I’m done. An’ there you have it.”
* * * *
It is surely time young Walter Lindrum,
if not brother Fred as well, went to England with
the billiard championship in view. Playing another
exhibition match with Fred last week, the young
left-hander made 2060 in two sessions; his principal
breaks that day were 409, 308, 269, 252, and three
ranging from 120 to 158. This is above ordinary
champion form. In the biggest break only 228 were
scored off the red. At the present time Walter
Lindrum could do all that George Gray ever did with
the red, if it were worth his while to do it. Nobody
will pay to see the monotonous “Gray stroke” ex-
ploited any more. Also onlookers can be satiated
with nursery cannons. The sort of game that Walter
Lindrum plays is the most entertaining in its variety
that any billiardist can oiler, and even the player’s
utter lack of personality seems to make his play
the more interesting. Great billiard players have
mostly had a personality of a sort, but the Lindrums
are unobtrusive, matter-of-course little masters of
their business, who appear to mutual disadvantage
when matched with one another. Either of them
requires a large, important-looking opponent to
show him off, and by contrast give a touch of humor
to his wonderful supremacy.
(Continued on page 38.)


“FOOTWEAR
DISTINCTION”
is achieved by the
wearing of
ABBEY SHOES.
They are specially designed and carefully
modelled to give the utmost in comfort
and long service.
We feature a smart made-to-order style
in Tan Willow Calf.
Prices: 45/- and 57/6
Patent Bals., dull legs, 67/6
Box Calf Bals 47/6
In full sizes and D and E fittings.
Postage Extra. Write for Our Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
■J* IYOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Last Two Nights of TOO MANY HUSBANDS.
SATURDAY NEXT, AT THE MATINEE.
ROBERT COURTNEIDGE’S ENGLISH COMEDY
COMPANY IN lIADDON CHAMBERS’S
MASTERPIECE,
THE SAVING GRACE.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
•piVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents Miss LEE WHITE,
in London’s Latest Musical Success,
THE GIRL FOR THE BOY. *
“IT’S FRENCH—IT’S NOT RUDE.”
Prices as usual.
HU K Ma.IES T V ’ S. SYI>N K Y.
Direction ,1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW ENGLISH COMEDY
COMPANY in
YES, UNCLE.
A Musical Comedy in two acts.
With DOROTHY BRUNTON.
Plans at Paling’s. .
Clt I T E It 1 O N TII E A T It E. SYDNEY.
Lessees: J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE MUSICAL COMEDY SUPREME,
IRENE.
Plans at Paling’s.
ALA C K T HEAT RE, SYDNEY^
Lessees: J. & N. TAIT.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON Ltd.
NIGHTLY AT 8. MATINEES WEDNESDAYS.
Farewell Season of MARIE TEMPEST and
GRAHAM BROWNE, in
THE DUKE OF KILLIECRANKIE.
NEXT SATURDAY,
OUTCAST.
Plans at Nicholsoh’s.
lEEN ALEXANDRA HOSPITAL FOR
CHILDREN.
GRAND CONCERT,
in aid of the above, will be given in
SYDNEY TOWN HALL,
On WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1920, 8 p.m.
BY THE SOCIETY OF BRICKS.
assisted by Sydney’s leading artists and Darlinghurst
- Concert Band.
Plan at Paling’s and White Rose, Pitt Street.
Tickets at Searl’s, King Street; Kitchen and
Bingham, Park Street.
Tickets, 3/-, 2/-. 1/-. W. E. J. Weller, Secretary.
E. Dyte, Assistant Sec. W. Week, Treasurer.
E J Card. Patron. Janes Clarks, President.
yNI () N PICTURE TItEAT It E S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
KING’S THEATRE. SI ELItOU It N E.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
Direcfion Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents the
ALL-AUSTRALIAN MUSICAL COMEDY,
F. F. F.
By C. J. DE GARIS & REG A. A. STONEHAM.
Cast includes MINNIE LOVE, MARIE LE VARRE,
CHARLES WORKMAN, HUGH STEYNE, REX
LONDON, MAGGIE MOORE, etc. Box Plan at Allan s.
Amusements.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
Revival of GILBERT & SULLIVAN OPERAS.
PATIENCE.
THEATRE ROYAL.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
KISSING TIME.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN & JOHN FULLER, LTD.
Sole Direction ALLAN WILKIE.
FOR THIS WEEK ONLY.
ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER-WATTS in
THE MERCHANT OF VENICE.
NEXT SATURDAY.
FOR SIX NIGHTS ONLY.
THE COMEDY OF ERRORS,
Box Plan at the Pianola. Special Concessions to
Parties of Students.
pLAYHOUSE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, OCTOBER 23.
THE GREAT COMEDY IN. THE DAINTY
THEATRE,
THE BOSS COCKIE.
’ AUSTRALIAN PLAYS, LTD.
|y|A.IESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
GRACE DARLING in
EVEN AS EVE.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
HOYT’S THEATRES. MELBOURNE
AI no SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
'ITIIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
MAE MURRAY in
WHAT AM I BID?
SHIRLEY MASON in
LOVE’S HARVEST.
Prices as usual.
QLYMPIA, WIRTHS’ PARK, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY, OCTOBER 16
(CAULFIELD CUP NIGHT).
WIRTH BROS.’ NEW CIRCUS, LTD.
THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
Matinfies Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
THE
GLAGIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
Amusements.
DIiU'AiNNU '•’iIEATKE. JIELIIOI’BNJS.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
|y|ELBA THEATRBi, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SKLZNICK.
Victoria Racing Club,
FLEMINGTON.
CUP WEEK.
Derby Day
Cup Day. .
Oaks Day
Steeplechase
Day
30th October
2nd November
4th November
6th November
Stakes will amount to about £85,000.
The magnificent improvements add much to
the comfort of visitors.
11. BYRON-MOORE, Secretary.
Missing Friends.
INFORMATION is sought as to the
whereabouts or date and place of death
(if deceased) of PATRICK DEARY. Com-
municate with DARVALL & HORSFALL,
243 Collins Street, Melbourne.
TF WILLIAM STEWART (son of Matthew Stewart),
I last heard of about eight years ago as a fireman
on s.s. Karoola, will apply to the undersigned ho
will heak of something to his advantage.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE CO., 91 Queen St., Melbourne.
TF WILLIAM CUMMING (brother of Robert Cum-
£ ming, late of Fitzroy), last heard of about eight
years ago working for a Chinese Tea Merchant in
Melbourne, and residing Cromwell Street, Colling-
wood, will apply to the undersigned he will hear of
something to his advantage. PERPETUAL TRUS-
TEE CO., 91 Queen Street, Melbourne.
tF ARTHUR KINGSTON, horn in Launceston about
I 1893, last heard of visiting Mother, at Callan
Park, New South Wales, will apply to the under-
signed he will hear of something to his advantage.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE CO., 91 Queen St., Melbourne.
For Sale.
Foi’ Immediate Sale.
rO permit of the winding-up of an estate, the
following is for sale: —
Observatory, together with Equatorial Telescope
(7-inch refractor by Thos. Cooke), several eye-
pieces, including one high-class Bifilar position
Micrometer, also high-class Marine Chronometei.
Other accessories.
For full particulars, apply to . . . .
W. K. DONALD, Commission Agent,
Irvinebank, N.Q.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Ltd.
on
ISSUE OF 420,000 SHARES.
THE time for receipt of applications is extended to 3 p.m
Wednesday, 20th October, 1920.
Forms of Renunciation, accompanied by applications for shares
signed by the shareholders renouncing or transferring their rights, with
amount payable on application, will be received by the Company up to
above time. F m.. DICKENSON, Secretary.
320 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Bth October, 1920.
* r?
-'S'
m
M
Out-W est W atcHes
Our celebrated Super “Fx & R” Watches are THE BEST for out-
west-districts.
The movements are f-plate Levers.
They have brequet overcoil balance springs.
They have 15 jewels, with jewel ruby rollers.
They have compensated and adjusted balances.
They have screw cases or jointed cases.
The screw cases are practically dust and water proof.
They are specially made to stand hard riding and knocking
about.
They go with profound accuracy.
A wearer wrote us from Goodooga: “The lVatch has kept excellent
time, stood hard riding, buckjumping horses and all sorts of
weather. I don’t think a better watch can be got.’’
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
Gent.’s Open-face Oxidised
Steel 15-jewelled Super “Fx &
R” Lever Watch, 84/-
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 &. 25 Hunter Street,
Perfect Re-Creation
of music.
It is positively impossible to distinguish
between the artist’s voice and its Re-
Creation by The New Edison. This
marvellous instrument actually brings the
voices of noted performers from the
other side of the world and Re-Creates
them in your own home, exactly as they
are heard from the concert platform.
the New Edison
is Thomas A. Edison’s greatest triumph, and has been tested in direct comparison
with the human voice. Audiences of over 2,000,000 have been upable to detect
the slightest difference.
Write for free literature describing this marvellous musical instrument —we’ll be
glad to send it to you.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Letters of Travel (1892-1913). By
kUDYARD KIPLING. Uniform
Edition, 7s. 6d. net. Pocket Edition.
Leather, 7s. 6d. net. Blue Cloth, Os.
net. Dominions Edition. 6s. net
The Triumph of Free Trade, and
Other Essays and Speeches. By
RUSSELL REA, late member of Ilis
Majesty’s Council. With an Intro-
duction by C. F. G. MAST ERMAN.
15s. net.
The Statist: “Mr. Rea’s vigorous attack on
the ‘mathematical truths’ of Protectionism
shows a deep insight into various vexed pro-
blems connected with international trade, and
would repay careful study on the part of busi-
ness men, students and politicians.
ROUND TABLE PUBLICATIONS.
The Round Table, a Quarterly Re-
view of the Politics of the British
Commonwealth. ss. net. Annual
Subscription, 20s. net, post free.
The Problem of the Commonwealth.
L;' CURTIS. The after-war relations
between Great Britain and the
Dominions. Sewed, 2s. 6d.; cloth,
4s.
The Commonwealth of Nations. The
historical basis of the foregoing. 6s.
net.
Macmillan’s
Empire Library.
New Vols.
ss. per volume.
WINSTON CHURCHILL.
669. The Green Bay Tree.’ A Novel.
By WINSTON . CHURCHILL,
author of “Richard Carvel,” “The
Inside of the Cup,” etc.
HUGH WALPOLE
671. The Captives. A Novel in Four
Parts. By HUGH WALPOLE,
Author of “The Secret City,” etc.
ANONYMOUS.
670. In the Mountains. A Novel.
Cytology: With special reference to
the Metazoan Nucleus. By W. E.
AGAR, D.Sc., Professor of Zoology in
the University of Melbourne. Illus-
trated. 12s. net.
Nature: —“The book is well illustrated and
excellently produced. While it can scarcely
appeal to a wide circle of readers it will be
of great service to all who wish to be informed
concerning the results arising out of the work
of the last twenty years on this subject. The
cytologist will find it indispensable for refer-
ence, and biologists generally will turn to it
for the more recent work relating to these
problems.”
A Manual of the Timbers of the
World: Their Characteristics and
Uses. By ALEXANDER L.
HOWARD, to which is appended an
account by S. FITZGERALD of the
Artificial Seasoning of Timber. With
upwards of 100 Illustrations. 80s.
net.
The Sugar-Beet in America. By
F. S. HARRIS, Ph.D. Illustrated.
12s. net. [Rural Science Series.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN gCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.


Zlna.nim.ous
ABBOTS LAGER.
THE DRINK OF GOOD FELLOWSHIP
73rph/pcffrom
Pureffo/tdffopr On/y
m
n
A Bag for Week-ends.
The handy Kit Bag will carry all you need
for your week-end journeys, and it is con-
veniently portable'. It is also the ideal type
of bag for business use. Peapes’ Kit Bags
are made of solid leather over strong steel
frames. They will retain their shape during
many years’ regular service.
Length: 14. 16. 18. 20 inches
33/6 39/6 43/6 47/6
Please add postage. Peapes’ Pay Postage
on all goods except bagware.
PEAPES & CO. Ltd.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George St., Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Y es , Uncle”
Criterion “Irene”
Palace “The Duke of Killiecrankie”
YIVOLI “The Saving Grace”
Hoyt s Moving Pictures
Lnion Theatres Moving Pictures
Town Hall (20th) . Queen Alexandra Hospital Concert
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Patience”
® OYAIi “Kissing Time”
Ring's “ F . F F »
Princess's “The Comedy of Errors”
Tivoli “The Girl for the Boy”
Hoyt s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba ■ Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciahium Dancing
Olympia Wirths’ Circus
♦
It was as Shylock that Allan Wilkie
first captured Melbourne’s good opinion, and
his Irvingesque impersonation of that
shabbily-treated Israelite has lost none of
the force and dignity of yore. Perhaps he
makes rather more noise than he did when
his temper is roused, but generally speaking
he remains the same pious old usurer, with
just a wee touch o’ Bonnie Scawtland in his
Jewish intonation, and the same utter in-
capacity to see a joke when it is turned
against him. Miss Hunter-Watts was a
pretty, graceful Portia a few years ago,
and in this revival of “The Merchant” at
Melbourne Princess’s her appearance loses
nothing by comparison. She lacks the
suavity of a great lady who is capable of
rpaking spicy remarks to her waiting-maid,
but in cap and gown she looks nearly as con-
vincing as any Portia should be. If her
euchring of Shylock is a little shrewish—
a little too sharp for the character—it is all
the more pleasing to women in the audience
on that account. More backcloth and less
side draping than in the other revivals dis-
tinguish Wilkie’s cute and economical treat-
ment of “The Merchant of and the
acting all round shows the effect of a few
weeks’ practice in speaking blank verse and
trying to suit the action to the poetic word.
Vivian Edwards is conspicuously effective in
his glad garments and breezy manner as
Gratiano, and even Guy Hastings, as Portia’s
heavy best boy, seems more at home in Shak-
speare than he was. Anyhow, he had an easy
job against the other two suitors for the
lady; one of them forgot his lines, and the
other was a very second-rate Prince of
Morocco. Lennon’s Antonio almost deserved
to lose a pound of flesh for his dull respecta-
bihty; Landor was a captal Launcelot
Gobbo ; Lorna Forbes gave a pleasant air to
the unpleasmg character of Miss Shvlock •
and Adele Inman, as Nerissa, offered ample
apology for Bobert Inman, her progenitor
in the capacity of Duke of Venice. On
Saturday the bill will be “The Comedy of
Errors,” for the first time in ever so long.
v *l-
- ’ at Melbourne Majesty's is by
no means the happiest revival of the Gil-
bert and Sullivan series. The satire of it
is out of date, the construction is amateur-
“F.F.E.” at Mel-
bourne King's.
Leslie Donaghey as
Talboy.
ish compared with
later works of the
immortal two, and
—most important
consideration of all
—it is not good for
showing off the
company. A fin-
ished actress only
can make anything
of the character of
Patience, with her
artificial artless-
ness and utter
want of sentiment.
Patti Russell is not
a first-class hand
at the game nor
does her sweet,
light singing voice
cover itself with
glory this time.
The obsolete Bun-
thorne, too, is pre-
sented by Walenn
as a dry and
swarthy alien with,
nothing of the
Reginald about
him. He cuts a
figure of no im-
portance, and is
wholly disappoint-
ing. The three
old-type military
officahs are Hobbs.
lai- better in appearance and voice than
in acting and enunciation; Arnold, with
quaint antics in the aesthetic trio and
an excessive make-up; and James Hay,
“J? . artistie suggestion but no more
of the Duke who is weary of eternal
“toffee.” Those three mild military swank-
ers are insufficiently elaborated in the text
or the performance. Gilbert seems to have
written the. libretto in a hurry. If Ethel
Morrison had a rich contralto equipment
she would be a quite effective Lady Jane
(for she conceals her comeliness ' for a
change) As the leading young lovesick
maidens Strella Wilson and Thelma Carter
(especially the former) are successful in
pose, dialogue and song, but the parts have
no distinctive personality. Ralston is but
a tuneful, stodgy sort of Archibald the All-
right, doing nothing to weaken one’s earlier
impiession that the chorus is the mainstav
of the entertainment. “Patience” is to last
a fortnight and to Be followed by “Pina-
fore.”
sic $ si! s':
“F.F.F.,” a musical comedy of Austra-
lian manufacture which Mclntosh has staged
at Melbourne King’s, under Robert Greig’s
supervision, is brighter than the cheap, catch-
vote title suggests. An introductory sketch
borrows an idea from “Fanny’s First Play,”
and a reminder of the introduction comes
mat the finish. The play proper deals with
the weird desire of an inevitable uncle
(every musical comedy runs an eccentric
uncle these times) to impose wealth untold
on nephew Steyne, with the proviso that
the young man will talk and dress like an
Lnglish idiot of good breeding, and keep the
reason for his masquerade a secret from
his mother-in-law. Finally uncle repents
of his absurdity, and removes the restric-
tions from his dear Australian nephew,
whilst incidentally threatening to marry ma-
m-law. The plot is consecutive, and the
music catchy—what there is of it. There
should be more music and incidental dancing
Ihe comedy is strong enough in its frame-
work to achieve success without interpo-
lated turns; in fact, the weakest item in the
pleasing show was a song introduced by
Marie La Varre, who abandoned her charac-
ter of housemaid to wear the tights and
“THE DUKE OF KILLTECRANKIE .”
AT SYDNEY PALACE.
Graham Brwne as Henry Pitt Welly, M.P.
spangles of a panto boy. With this excep-
nothing cries aloud for deletion from
•” Some of the dialogue might oe
trimmed to admit of extra musical numbers,
and the clever chorus might be slightly en-
larged and oftener called into action. Such
desirable amendments look easy to intro-
duce. Hugh Steyne scores heavily as the
jaunty nephew; Rex London is a Sam Wel-
ler-like footman who pursues Marie La Varre ;
Workman is his earlier self again as the
uncle ; Maggie Moore mother-in-laws cleverly ;
Laurence Harding %nd Donaghey are in-
separable solicitors commissioned to feed
Steyne with cheques for large amounts, and
Minnie Love is an adorable young wife who
will be replaced by another songstress at the
end of the first week. About the prettiest
thing in the whole chapter of accidents is a
stenographers’ sextette, with Nellie Marriott
and Valentine in the foreground. The little
ladv’s work is charming in this early event,
but she never gets another opportunity to
make the audience glad.
'*• '*• *!•
nr issing T Time ” r au so many weeks at
Melbourne Royal not long ago that its
revival last Saturday on the same boards
seems a mere postscript to the original pro-
auction. A full house justified the revival
for a fortnight and greetings to Gladys
Moncrieff, Maude Fane, Leonard, Holland,
Nell Payne and the rest came straight from
the hearts of a crowd that had -evidently
seen them before in the same parts. To
have seen Stigant before, or to have met
his temporary successor as the uncle who
insists upon osculation in the family, was
to notice an improvement in the comedy
scenes in which uncle has much to say.
Kissing Time” is now a polished show
and should fill a want until “The Boy”
comes to light on the 23rd.
Thanks to the cutting-out of the Spinning
Chorus owing to late hours, a large audience
was able to sit patiently to the end of a
fairly smooth Uni. Conservatorium students’
show at the King’s on Friday night The
takings go to the Queen Victoria Hospital.
Scenes from opera, with a fine orchestra
under Prof. Laver’s guidance, provided the
pleasure. Stage material was there, too
though a trifle raw in parts. Anyhow, the
orchestra alone was worth the money esoeci-
ally m II Trovatore.” The prison scene
gave tenor Malcolm Semple a good chance
and he took it with both hands, and Rosa
r'lnuertons Leonora was creditable. In
two acts of “Faust” Mrs. Agnes Janson got
some effect out of a rather motley group,
the name-character wearing a very worried
look until he sang of his love and seemed
of “Ortufii 86 ” T i he gei ? r . was the second act
where Misses Neville-Smith
iwa^ W * en a ? d . 1)311 C as b showed they could
s * ng . fluently in Italian. Con-
stance Neville-Smith should be able, both as
singer and actress, to go beyond the point
where amateurs mostly stop.
** * *
At Melbourne Tivoli argument continues
wv. -Z 11 ° UD «rr.£ Ee smiling personality of
Lee White in “The Girl for the Boy.”
Mirths’ Circus and Menagerie, which
fe^ llke at only one season
ot the y ear in Melbourne, are about to fulfil
the promise of posters in advance. The
mighty organisation will be quartered at
Olympia’ within shorter walking distance
wW 6 ii, am i lm f than tlle wa -V-back building
where the elephants assembled last year.
npw fk e -Boss Cockie,” with his whiskers
newly trimmed, brings the flood and the
'in!i m llk , to that damty Melbourne theatre,
Ihe 1 layhouse, on 2ord October.
ncmL H ? yt f ( Melbournej this week some
people one has heard about in the domains
oi novel-writing, art, sport and millinery,
lke Alall Caine . whom one would
willingly forget, are being pictured at home
and abroad. Mae Murray, as the fair off-
spring o a father addicted to drink, may be
desenbed as a silent, melodramatic plea for
the principles of 1 usSyfoot. In another story
VV > ld You Forgive?” arises
tiom a lady s indiscretion, and is answered
n the affirmative. Anita Prentice plays
leading lady in the Majestic drama of “The
■t lghting Shepherdess,” a story of a girl
whose worst enemy was her mother. Also
Howard Hickman in “Social Ambition”
renounces a worthless career in Noo Yark
to find gold and redemption in Alaska, money
eif J . root , of reformation in the case
* , At , tlle Britannia Constance Tal-
rnadge finds the benefit of true love as “The
v irtuous V amp,” and the -sweetest thing in
fiction at the Melba is Mary Miles Minter.
Heights*”^ 16S iU <Hosemary Climbs the
** * *
Mjirie,Tempest ana urahain Browne began
eU n q , Ulck ' cEange I,eturn Sydney season at
the Palace on Saturday night with that fan-
tastic little comedy, “The Duke of Killie-
crankie. If Marie only came on to the
stage and posed in the exquisitely-fitting
ciothes °f Mrs. Mulholland, the audience
would (whether it knew it or not) get good
value. Ihen her art is so sure and clean-
cut that the playgoer sighs his satisfaction
and settles down to a restful evening of
admnation. The elderly Johnny manner-
isms of Graham Browne see him through
the part of Pitt-Welby, M.P., who assists the
polite young Duke to decoy Lady Henrietta
Addison, the cold young London beauty he
is in love with, to the ancient Scottish castle,
on condition that Pitt-Welby’s own mash
iMrs. Mulholland) is dragged in as chap-
erone. As both distressed ladies hate each
other like society cats, the first dinner at
the castle is all lightning flashes. Later on
sentiment sweetens and kills the interest
Dorothy Hamilton is a graceful excuse for
Roger Barry’s ducal brigandage. “Cousin
Kate ’ is due on Saturday.
Sydney has seen two champions in action
during the last few days—Poitrel at Rand-
wick and “Irene” at the Cri. Whilst the
pair are equal as regards brilliancy of exe-
cution, beauty and popular favor, the musi-
cal comedy nonpareil is undoubtedly the
better stayer. After galloping all out for
11 weeks “Irene” is only just approaching
the straight with the change-of-bill post at
the end of it.
The Sydney playgoers are going along in
crowds to see Dorothy Brunton in “Yes,
Uncle,” at Her Majesty’s.
“Too Many Husbands” comes to an end
at the Tivoli (Sydney) this Friday. On
Saturday Courtneidge’s co. gives Australian
playwright Haddon Chambers a run with
“The Saving Grace.” ,
Jack London’s “Sea Wolf” bosses his own
hell-ship in spite of the whole ruffianly
crew being against him. The picture is
well produced, and the fight in the fo’c’s’le
of the ghost-ship thrills. Sydney Haymarket
and Globe tell the story. Constance Tal-
madge is the Lorelei of “Two Weeks,” and
nets three hearts and a wedding-ring in
record time. Lyceum and Crvstal Palace
are Connie’s picture-galleries. Elaine Ham-
merstein has her life wrecked hv “Whispers”
at the Strand. Rex Beach’s “Girl from
Outside” is a pearl with a Yukon setting
at Crystal Palace and Lyric.
Beyond a, second-rate variety show at the
“ F.F.E. at Mel-
bourne King's.
Hugh Steyne as
Fitzwilliam.
Majestic, pictures
are the only al>
traction at Adel-
aide. Those at
the Town Hall
rank first, dealing
as they do with the
war, and having
lectures by Leane,
Blarney, Brand
and other autho-
rities to help them
out. At West’s,
Clara Kimball
Young develops the
familiar “Eyes of
Youth,” and Won-
der graph has
“Jack Straw,” an
Americanised , idea
of the aristocratic
waiter who posed
as an archduke.
Snowy Baker has
taken his hard-
featured but gentle-
manly bushranger
o f “L i g h t ni n g
Ridge” along to
the Pay. Pictures,
too, have crammed
the Royal for a
week, but John 1),
O’Hara is about to switch it on to its legi-
timate line.
Art items from Adelaide: —
Koehncke, the Adelaide dealer, has brought from
London a big picture of the signing of Peace in the
gallery at Versailles. Lloyd George sits at a small
table in the middle distance, in the act of signing.
Balfour stands next in the queue, with Cook and
Hughes (not a striking likeness) waiting near. The
composition of the groups is good, and the whole
thing (it is by Finnemore, 1t.1.) is a first-class
specimen of its kind; but the kind bears about the
same relation to Art as a directory does to Literature.
Miss Denny Scott has a bright and versatile collec-
tion at the May Club; it ranges from allegorical
studies to bits of landscape. Like many other
painters, she is weakest in depicting seaside rock,
and best in misty effects, with towers rising into
space in some striking background. Besides local
scenes, the painter exhibits charming work from
Hobart and Perth, and her views of Millbrook, the
new lake behind Adelaide, ale none the less beautiful
for the knowledge that Millbrook has a severely
utilitarian basis. Miss Scott is modest in the matter
of prices, and her small fees are rapidly being paid
by collectors.
“Adelaide”: Why “Too Many Husbands”?
It was played by the same co. in Adelaide
three months ago, as previously in London,
under the name: of “Home and Beauty.” Has
the author sanctioned the change? And
where is the improvement, anyway?
The Music Hall Artists’ Federation in
London has resolved to boycott any manage-
ment that puts up more than one foreigu
performer to six native. Paris is talking
of reprisals. It imports only one line from
England—dancing girls—but relies on them
wholesale for all big spectacular affairs.
“G.K.” : There is a considerable touch of
musical impertinence in Verbrugghen’s pro-
test against “the lack of interest shown in
the present series of orchestral concerts,”
given by his orchestra at Melbourne Town
Hall. Where, he asks, are the music-lovers who
thronged the same building during the Beet-
hoven week? Most of those who rushed the
Beethoven concerts wanted to hear the N.
S. Wales Orchestra, in the first place. They
found it not more impressive than their best
local orchestras had been at their best. The
Beethoven week owed much of its boom to
circumstances which are not repeated this
time. Of the people who showed an in-
telligent interest in the proceedings not one in
20—apart from Verbrugghen, his immediate
disciples and a handful of mock aesthetes —
thought that the boom could be repeated
yet awhile. Well, the boom has not been re-
peated, and Verbrugghen’s vanity is hurt.
But Melbourne has no cause to feel ashamed
of itself. Rational citizens are patchy and
uncertain in their disposition to attend con-
certs and picture galleries, whereas professors
of the arts live in only their own little world.
There is a fair amount of patronage for good
orchestral concerts at the Town Hall, con-
sidering the size of the population and the
number of opposition entertainments, in-
cluding Gilbert and Sullivan opera, Shak-
spearean drama, and a distinguished novelist
on the religious aspect of spiritualism. Ver-
brugghen is not the only one who offers
food to the higher understanding. One can
be something else as well as a music lover.
He warns Melbourne that “those interested
in oi’chestral music should remember they
have a duty to perform by supporting con-
certs when given.” A “duty”! The little
conductor is taking a wrong line. He should
remember that he is there to shake a stick at
his orchestra, not at the audience.


G. E. EDISON
SWITCHON LAMPS
Better light —fewer replacements.
240 V
30 W
N
U
Clear, bright, perfectly dif-
fused light—the kind of
illumination that means more
accurate work in the office,
more effiicient results and
increased production in the
factory or workshop, and
less eye-strain in the home.
Such is supplied by
SWITCHON LAMPS.
In addition, they possess ex-
treme durability and give
maximum service in actual
use. Every minute detail of
their construction is in the
hands of men who have
made a life study of how to
improve that particular part.
A considerable annual saving is effected by the
use of SWITCHON LAMPS. Try them to-day!
Orders by letter or ’phone receive prompt attention.
WGWATSON &C°L TD
279 Clarence S t Sydney
Telephones: 9967-8-9.
Telegrams: “SWITCHON.”
Your
Grocer
will see
the
Point
Point tcwaSiisiTm
T*»
*V>
A
a
bVo
VjMC/te
Qv
M
IL°
He knows that when
you ask for Rex you
want Rex because
no other Cheese will
please you as well.
He knows too that it pays him better to
sell the handy tins of
REX LUNCHEON CHEESE
There’s no time lost in weighing and
cutting. No complaints about the quality.
Rex Luncheon Cheese is more than a tid-bit
or dessert —it is a major food. A perfect
alternate for meat, adding variety to your
meals and giving more nourishment at less
cost.
Ask your grocer for Rex
—lnsist on having it.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of Rex Pure Food Products
Curers of Rex Hams and Bacon
J 3926
“One cost for both light and power
This Fairbanks-Morse Plant lights the
home and drives all machinery, too!
SCORES of farmers who buy Self-contained
Electric Light and Power Plants think that
they will drive all their machinery. But they
can’t! The only Plant that is a real power plant
as well as lighting outfit is a belt-driven plant such
as the Fairbanks-Morse shown below. The Engine
is separate from the Generator. You simply use this
engine once or twice a week for charging the battery,
and at other times take it all around the farm for
regular engine v. ork. That is the kind of Light and
Power Plant you want. One that gives you all the
brightness and convenience of electric light and
electric power in the home, with engine power for
hard, everyday farm work into the bargain.
The Fairbanks-Morse Light and Power Plant is
a self-starter and the last word in simplicity. It
consists firstly of the famous Type “Z” Engine,
which runs on kerosene. This engine is belted to a
generator of suitable capacity. The Generator has
ball-bearings and is high-grade all through. The
Battery is composed of 16 glass cells with a
capacity to take care of all requirements. The
Switchboard for controlling the plant is extremely
simple, and hydrometer, etc., for keeping the battery
in order, is supplied free.
Send for prices and full particulars of Fairbanks-
Morse Type “F” Plants right away to nearest of
the following:—
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO. LTD., 9-13 Young Street, Sydney.
JAS. BARTRAM & SON PTY. LTD., 580-588 BourKe Street, Melbourne.
MALLOCH BROS., 50-54 William Street, Perth.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS LTD., Hobart, Launceston, Devonport &. Burnie.
r, d
wm
i;
■ .
\j~
; 3
h
' v
SM
P»
ssu<


Coco aunt Oil Makes
an Elegant Hair Wash
Girls and women who wish to keep their
hair in nice condition should be most cautions
in the soap they wash it with. Most soaps
and ready-mixed shampoos contain excessive
quantities of alkali. This dries the scalp,
makes the hair brittle and is very injurious.
Just ordinary colinated, cocoanut oil (a pure,
saponified but quite greaseless liquid) is
far better than the most costly soap you could
possibly use for a shampoo, for this cannot
possibly hurt your hair.
Merely wet your hair with water and rub it
on. A couple of teaspoonsful makes a perfect
flood of rich, thick, creamy lather, and cleanses
both hair and scalp thoroughly. The lather
rinses out easily, and takes with it every trace
of dust. dirt, dandruff or excessive oiliness.
The hair dries quickly, and evenly, and comes
out fine, and silky, bright, glossy and fluffy,
appearing to be heavier than it As. And best
of all. this colinated cocoanut oil leaves the
hair as easy to dress again, as though you
hadn’t washed it at all. You can get colinated
cocoanut. oil at most any chemist, but be sure
it’s “colinated.” which is not expensive—a few
ounces lasting a long, long time.
IMPORTANT: Do not confuse colinated cocoanut
oil with cheaper sticky, emulsified cocoanut oils
or other substitutes. There is only pne genuine
colinated oil, as recommended above.
Use Finders to Lift Off Corns!
as
Not one twinge of Pain! Corns and Callouses Loosen and
Brush Off! Wonderful!
Simply Some Drops of Frozol-Ice and All Pain and Soreness
Leave Corns at Once.
No bunkum! No bother!
Corns—soft ones, hard on£s,
corns between the toes, —
loosen completely and lift
off. And not the slightest
twinge of pain or soreness.
Wonderful Invention of
Prominent Chemist.
This wonderful com-
pound is named
Frozol-Ice, and is a
substance of ether dis-
covered by a scholarly
chemist.
Step in at any chemist’s for
a tiny bottle of Frozol-Ice. cost-
ing but a mite, but ample to remove
every pestiferous corn or callous
from the feet.
Apply some drops right on to the heart
of any .tender, pain-throbbing corn or
callous. Immediately all soreness van-
ishes, and soon the whole corn, “lock,
stock and barrel.” loosens and lifts right
out with your finger-tips.
There’s no “acid-eating” effect in
Frozol-Ice. but a perfectly non-irritating,
non-inflaming, shrivelling up and loosen-
ing of the corn or callous.
Only fancy! No pain! No soreness!
No sting whilst using Frozol-Ice. nor
afterwards. Make a test of it and satisfy
yourself.
As Soon as Corns Begin to Ache Use
Frozol-Ice.
Girls who have corn freedom save a
place on their dressing-stands for Frozol-
Ice. When corns begin throbbing, give
them some drops. Pain vanishes right off
—corns die!
Midget Bottles of Frozol-Ice at your
Chemist’s.
Drinking Water
With Meals Stops
Stomach Disorders.
Thousands of unfortunate people suffer
almost daily from dyspepsia, indigestion,
fermentation, sour acid stomach, flatulence,
gases or distress after eating. If they would
only form the agreeable habit of slowly drink-
ing with each meal a glassful of hot water
containing a teaspoonful of pure Salix Mag-
nesia, they would soon find their stomachs so
much strengthened and improved that they
might eat the richest and most satisfying
meals without the least symptom of indiges-
tion.
Salix Magnesia is highly effective in stomach
and intestinal disorders, and is very pleasant
to the taste, and in the form of fine powder or
compressed tablets—never liquid or milk—
and is not a laxative. Any first-class chemist
can supply you with this Salix Magnesia.
POVERTY
POINT
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“0.K.”: Conan Doyle may possibly
interest those who have never considered
“spiritualism” at close quarters. He cer-
tainly didn't present the “medium” and
“clairvoyant” business to me in any other
than the light I saw it in when I attended
Bailey’s seances years ago in Melbourne. In
those days the only sense of “occultism” I
obtained from the experience was due to
the atmosphere of artless credulity in which
the stances, dark and otherwise, were always
enveloped. To hard-shelled spiritualists
Conan Doyle must seem a mere amateur.
Most of his lecture is as flat, stale and un-
exciting as the article on spiritualism in the
Ency. Britannica.
“Stargazer”: I place first among picture-
plays I have seen the production of Steven-
son’s “Jek.vll and Hyde.” with one of the
Barrymore brothers as the doctor and the
devil. Its real m was startling to a
degree. The Hyde may have been a little
too melodramatic, if that is possible with,
.such a subject, but the idea carried, the
impression Stevenson sought to create was
there, and the whole play was suffused with
the correct skin-shifting atmosphere. This
Barrymore is a man of extraordinary good
looks, yet grim and loathly was the effect of
his Mr. Hyde. •
THE DUKE OF KILLIECRANKIE."
AT SYDNEY PALACE.
Marie Tempest as Mrs. Mulholland.
“Silas”: “Hamlet,” as somebody says in
a recent 8., was unquestionably Alfred
Dampier’s best effort, but the performance
was marred by his curious enunciation. He
was addicted to throwing in little gasping
“ahs” in the most disconcerting way. For
example:—•
To be, or not to—ah —be, that is the—ah—question,
Whether it is—ah —better to —ah—bear the —ah —
slings and —ah —arrows of outrageous—ah—
fortune.
Pleasant it is still to recall Alf Hamlet’s
speech to the players:—
Oh, reform it altogether—ah—and—ah—let those
that play vour clowns —dh —speak—ah—-no more
than is set down for them—ah.
“Norbell”: I went to have a bob’s worth
of hangover at Melbourne’s Her Majesty’s,
but it cost me 2s. plus programme.
The programme gave a lot of information
about whisky, beer, soap, patent medicine
and corsets, especially corsets. It mentioned
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., six times, but not
the Taits. It gave the names of the pro-
prietors, the actors, the managing director,
assistant-director, producer, musical direc-
tor, s.-m„ assistant s.-m. and business
manager, but at the pictures they tell you
all that for nothing, and you can close your
eyes to avoid it. We had an interval
between the two acts of 25 minutes by stop-
watch, and the monotony was relieved by
the management flashing ads. on the cur-
tain extolling the “new J. C. Williamson”
millinery and lingerie, which, I gather, will
make the ragshops gnash their bargains in
hopeless envy. As for the show, I heard
every syllable that Strella Wilson said or
sang, and a good deal of what Albert
Kavanagh and Charles Walenn remarked.
And now and then I saw portion of the
stage round the large ear of a prohibitionist
who sat in front of me.
“Ida Dawson” (London) ; Went to see
“The Beggars' Opera” which is being revived
a t Hammersmith
Lyric. V e r y
quaint, an d on e
does not regret the
absence of scenery.
All the singers
ar e goo d. an cl
Frederic Ranalow
(Maclieath) has a
convincing speak-
in g voice. Th e
wor ft h a s been
abridged to suit
mod e r n require-
ments. but si spade
is still called a
spade. At the end
Maclieath is in the
condemned hold,
with Polly Pea c hem
and Lucy Locket,
when “Four more
wives to sec> you—
and they each have
a baby!” is an-
nounced. The four
enter, carrying the
babies, most inap-
propriately dressed.
After the reprieve
there is' a dance,
and at each “cur-
tain” Macheath
takes an extra
“Yes, Uncle," at
Sydney Her Majesty's.
The Uncle from India
(Field Fisher).
baby in his
arms, until at the final he is clasping the
four. Droll enough, but does it occur in the
original play?
“M.S.”: Musical circles in the Cold
Country must be hard pressed for attractions
if it is true that the Hungarian conductor,
Arthur Nikisch, has been invited to come
across to London and give orchestral con-
certs. The last time that Nikisch appeared
in London was in May, 1913, when he was
imported to conduct three complete cycles
of “Der Ring des Nibelungen,” at Covent
Garden. I was on the same boat, the luckless
Maloja, with Mrs. Kirkby Lunn, who was
hurrying home from Australia to sing the
parts of Fricka and Erda in the Ring operas,
with the Grman Anton von Rooy, whose
name is familiar to users of the gramophone.
Nikisch left the other Wagnerian operas to
his pal Dr. Rottenburg, whom I thought a
rotten conductor, and I got a considerable
attack of the blues after witnessing “Tann-
hauser.” Fortunately after the Germans
left we had the consolation of hearing
Caruso and Destinn, with Georgio Polacco as
conductor. John McCormack appeared in
“Butterfly” and “Don Giovanni,” but to
little advantage. Seats at that time were
not dear. The very best boxes, those on the
first tier, could be had at 16 guineas for the
four operas. Other first-tier boxes were 12
guineas, second-tier boxes 8 guineas, orches-
tra stalls £5 10s., balcony stalls £3 13s. 6d.,
and reserved gallery slips at one guinea for
the four performances. After the Ring was
finished the prices dropped 50 per cent.,
which was rather rough on Caruso and Des-
tinn. That sort of thing should not happen
again, but you never can tell what will occur
in London—Nikisch may charge a guinea
for a back seat and get it.
“S.” : I encountered my first ghost the other
night in a picture-theatre in St. Kilda. The
lights were out, the place was in darkness,
and suddenly appeared Signor Majeroni. well
remembered by Australian playgoers of, say,
30 years ago, a tall, thin, dark, stately
Italian who, with his senora, played in
better-class drama over a long period. Here
he was to the final hair, a marvellous rein-
When the lights went up I
looked over the programme. The ghost was
Mario Majeroni, one of the signor’s sons, a
striking instance of nature’s aptitude for
repeating herself.
“Glug”: The London critics accuse John
Amadio of all kinds of technical errors,
chiefly the noisy use of keys and audible
breathing. If John has these faults Melba
didn’t notice them. When he was 17 Amadio
played for Melba on one of her Australian
tours. So excellent \yas his obligato work
that Nellie wanted him to join her on a
world tour. Obligato work is the most
severe test of a flautist’s technique. The
slightest fogginess in a note, the sound of
an opening or closing key, or the hiss of a
hastily-gulped breath on the part of the
flautist would utterly spoil the delicate pas-
sages in which Melba excels. Having sung
to the obligatos of the reputed world’s best
flautists, Melba’s choice of Amadio is about
the highest recommendation his technique
could have. But how could a London critic
be expected to take at face value the work
of an Australian who has not even studied
on the Continent!
“Dido”: Visiting the third or fourth per-
formance of “lolanthe” at Melbourne
Majesty’s, I was struck by the elderly audi-
ence. Grey and bald heads were all around
me in the circle, the gallery presented a row
of quaintly bewhiskered laces, and the bald-
ness of the stalls shimmered like a rippling
sea lit by the setting sun. Apparently the
revival had brought from cover all the ori-
ginal admirers of Gilbert and Sullivan still
capable of getting out without infringing
the cemetery bylaws. The consensus of
opinion appeared to be that the opera wasn’t
what it was. Certainly the audience wasn’t.
"Orb” : Irving objected to Fred Leslie
representing him on the stage dressed in
ballet skirts, and the objectionable caricature
was deleted, but no blue pencil on earth
could check Arthur Roberts’s buffoonery.
There was a big benefit on for Nellie Farren,
and as the Savoy’s contribution W. S.
Gilbert staged “Trial by Jury.” Miss St.
John was the plaintiff, Charles Kenuingham
the defendant. All the reigning feminine
lovelinesses in London trouped as. brides-
maids or otnncs, and, all the male stars avail-
able coruscated as jurymen, etc. Rutland
Barrington was the Judge, and Gilbert him-
self was the Associate. Arthur Roberts as
a juror sat down-stage, nearest to the audi-
ence, and everyone, behind and in front,
was curious, to see what liberties he would
dare with Gilbert’s classic right under the
uncompromising author’s very nose.
Roberts’s behavior was scrupulously cor-
rect until Barrington began to boom
out the Judge's song in a voice that
shook the roof. Roberts assumed a puzzled,
faraway look, and held his hand to his ear
as if straining to catch every word. Then
he shook his head sadly, produced an
outsize in ear-trumpets, and tried painfully
to hear with that. Shaking his head despair-
ingly, he discarded his trumpet ; took off his
boots, which he carefully hung outside the
jury-box; stuck up a placard, “Call me. at
7,” and went peacefully to sleep. Of course,
the house yelled, and Rutland Barrington
felt hurt; but as for Gilbert, he sat like a
soured sphinx. When the curtain fell every-
one waited for the thunderbolts to fall, but
the irrepressible Roberts skipped up and
apologised. “Hope you don't mind, old
chap!” “Not at all,” said Gilbert acidly;
“why, you nearly made me laugh !”
“Stripper”; Paul Howard, the Adelaide
pianist who can make his instrument talk
in every civilised language, betrays his Irish
origin in a delightfully-written programme
note, in which he says that Dohnanyi, the
composer, “paints with a master-hand in
clarion tones.” A bull in a music-shop, so
to speak.
“Cyrano” ; Fred Leslie and Fred A. Leslie
are different people. Just before I left Eng-
land, Fred Leslie (our Fred) was playing in
the revue “Laughing Eyes,” on tour, while
Fred A. Leslie had a minor part in “Kissing
Time” at the Winter Garden.
“To Po”: Miss Jeffreys-Lewis, playing
in Melbourne Royal back in the past cen-
tury, worked hard, but couldn’t hold her
audience. Lying on the floor of a cell in
Notre Dame, she complained of “these things
that creep and crawl.” “Fleas!” yelled the
gods, and the actress w T ept. Lawrence, an
actor, not noted for his size, rushed out and
demanded that someone should “Throw those
insulting ruffians out!” “Come up and try
it on yourself,” the gallery suggested. But
Lawrence had an urgent appointment else-
where.
“Bluebeard” : Tom Shelford, the tall, thin
comedian of “The Glad Eye” co., lias scored
a hit in England. The critics have dis-
covered him playing round the English coast
towns in a farce entitled “Biffy.” The play
is by Vera Berenger (she writes under the
pen-name of Henry Seton) and ’William
Ray. Jimmy Glover, the Drury-lane chief
of orchestra, is interested in the show. Shel-
ford is described as having the looks of
George Grossmith. the coolness of Charles
Ilawtrey and the touch of Nevil Maskelyne
in his explanatory methods, and “Biffy” is
to have a show in London. Tom Shelford
was well liked in these parts when he was
with the co. headed by JUthel Dane (Mrs.
Cyril Keightley). He is a brother of Cap-
tain W. S. Shelford, of the Orient liner
Orvieto.
“Mrs. Lance Rawson”: C. R. Stanford,
creator Bedford’s “Boss Cockie.” was in,
Brisbane 32 years ago, playing with Darcy
Stanfield’s crowd in panto. The good-
natured mummer used to forego his supper
every night to look after a small girl who
was playing one of the Babes and whose
“Yes, Uncle," at
Sydney Her Majesty's.
The nephew (William
Greene) and his
detachable Whiskers.
mother had begged
him to “keep an
eye on Ida.” In
Townsville a year
later he befriended
a lad who had
taken more drink
than he could
carry and more
money than his
own. An employer
won over and a
steamer ticket
south saved the
boy’s name and
made him “Stan’s”
friend for life.
I’ve seen “Stan”
play many parts,
from the lover
i n “C a mill e”
to Charles Carlyle
in “East Lynne.”
An American man-
ager who witnessed
his “Man from
Arizona” said, “If
he’ll cross the
Pacific I’ll guar-
antee b. irn 200
dalillars a week.”
But Stanford had
responsibilities in
Australia, and
could not go where
the big money was.
-That is his big-
hearted way; there always has been some-
one to look after and someone else’s worries
to swear at.
“To Po”: Louise Pomeroy was a good
sport. An underling paint-slapper acci-
dentally dropped a full drum of coloring
liquid just as she was passing to Her dress-
ing-room after a full-dress rehearsal of
“Hamlet,” in which she played the Dane.
The drum fortunately missed the lady,
merely a few drops splashing on her cos-
tume. Looking up, she saw a strained,
white face, and a pair of bulging eyes.
“Don't worry,” she said to the apparition ,
“I’m not hurt, and turpentine will remove
this stain.” That ended the matter. The
poor scene-painter had a wife and eight
kiddies; and ever after he would fight the
man who hazarded the opinion that Walter
Montgomery’s Ilamlet excelled Louise Pome-
roy’s.
“Cooeyanna” : A stranger visiting the irri-
gation district of Curlwaa (N.S.W.) was
passed by a large grey horse at full gallop,
an old man standing on its back. The steed
made for a wide irrigation ditch and took it
like a bird, the veteran never turning a hair.
The rider was old Gus St. Leon, grandfather
of the circus people of that name. The family
own a bit of land thereabouts, and gran’dad
puts in his time training ring horses for the
young ’uns.
“T. 0.1.”: In Melbourne General Ceme-
tery is an elegant tombstone bearing the
following inscription: “This slab was laid
by George Frederick Price Darrell in
memory of his wife, Mary Frances,
who died on January 3, 1880, aged 46 years.
An actress, guiltless of wrong with ill
intent, all unselfish, she lived and died be-
loved by all who knew her. She never lost
a friend or made an enemy. She had no
fear of death, believing in the great here-
after. Better so ! As the curtain descended
on the farcical play below, she was enrolled
in the joyous company who realise eternal
life above.” Mrs. Darrell was the daughter
of an English actor, James Cathcart.
As Fanny Cathcart she came to Australia
with G. Y. Brooke, and married Robert
Heir, an actor, who died on the voyage to
Maoriland and is buried at The Bluff.
Years later she married George Darrell and
travelled the U.S.A. Most epitaphs are lies,
but hers reflects her worth. She was born
at Nottingham, and made her first appear-
ance on the stage when five years old.
“Chev”: Despite the languorous artistry
of Mrs. Pat Campbell, the “inelegant but
arresting” figure she cut in pantaloons and
the ease with which she smoked long black
cigars, the romantic play, “Georges Sand.”
produced at the Duke of York’s (London),
has failed to please. The American author.
Moeller, has invested the work with unreality
. -“a sort of Tussaud’s waxworks come to
fe.” one virulent critic calls it.
“AUTHOR! AUTHOR!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I drifted to the playhouse dim >
One night when I was feeling lone,
And sat where just a feeble glim
Relieve! the darkness, and the drone
Of Ilamlet in his agony
Came from the distant stage to me.
1 faintly saw the man beside.
His garb seemed strange and out of date;
His whisker was a type that I’d
Not seen for years, at any rate ;
’Twas left to one to vaguely guess
Why he had come in fancy dress.
They maundered on, and when the Dane
Had given his mother yards of cheek,
And poor l’olonius was slain,
The man by me presumed to speak
“And prithee, gentle sir,” said he,
“Canst tell me what this play may be?”
“And whence come you that sitting here
You know not our familiar play V
’Tis ‘Hamlet,’ quoted far and near.
Now who are you?” 1 heard him say:
“I come from realms beyond the air,
My name is William Shakspcare, sir!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


SmartTailormg:WhatltWill
Ml
nmm
U 1
.VV V
r JM
~ <
:.. j'm
mm
■ %-
■
■
Do for You.
Getting people to like you is a big
help to success —it cannot be achieved
unless smartly dressed.
Leviathan Tailoring
is smart and distinctive, yet
Priced Moderately. '
Mail Coupon To-day for Patterns
of Indigo Serge and All-Wool Tweeds,
featuring Spring and Summer . Styles.
15he
“Quality” Suit
Made-to-order,
£.71151-
Specialisation in every detail has
been necessary to produce tailor-
ing which will be accepted by
every man as perfect. Style, fit
and high-grade materials are the
special features of the “Quality
Suit.
MAIL ORDER SERVICE.
An experienced staff ensures the
prompt execution of every Order,
and Customers residing in the
Country may rely upon receiving
the same careful attention as
those making a personal visit.
Home-measurement
Chart and Tape
—FREE.
Beautiful Illustrated
| SUMMER CATALOG
NOW READY.
Write for YOUR Copy.
V>cr *
JO
,
V/ .„o
4 -y ./•V
„°V'
v-
:W O
CP % &> e'
V*.••>•'■’.
o c tfV / ,••'
ORDER BY POST.
&he
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
LEVIATHAN
PTY.
LTD.
Cor. Swanston (Si BourKe Streets, MELBOURNE.
V


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
piipvw
laxiiwm
*?SIAV3I
Si
>•
.
i&m
:
-V-v: '
SSL'S
CAPTAIN
f-7.
\'
WHISKY
ALL HOTELS AND
LICENSED GROCERS
WHISKY
MELLOWED with age
and primed with all the zest-
giving qualities that only expert
distillation can pro-
duce.
On Randwick running Phil Osborne’s
Piquet horse Pear to is a likely Melbourne Clip
chance. Ihe penalty for winning the Waverley
Handicap with 7st. 71b. (a mile and six furlongs)
brings his Flemington cargo to 7st., which will suit
him better than his original 6st. 71b. The light
apprentice who steered him in the Metrop. was
in trouble most of the way. On the last day of
the meeting, with Mahoney on top, he had the longer
race won at the turn. When Millieme came at him
over the last furlong he responded with great
gameiiess, and though the older horse ran him to a
head he was at no stage in danger. He is an
even-tempered customer who does himself well and
holds condition accordingly.
In the Wavgrley Millieme came from a
long way back, and was running on well at the finish.
He is among the likeliest in the upper part of the
handicap to give trouble at Flemington. Unless the
going is hard and dry Pershore can be written down
a loser. However, if the track is to his liking he
should have a good chance, for he is a stayer and
features a long-sustained if not brilliant run at the
right end. And he is improving. With anything
like a decent trip on the third day Daarewin would
have finished three lengths instead of a head behind
him.
Poitrel showed that the running (or riding) in the
Spring Stakes had been all wrong when the Randwick
Plate was reached on Saturday’s menu. Four started
—King of the Forest, who made the pace for a mile
and then blew up, Pershore, Kennaquhair and Poitrel.
Kennaquhair, with Poitrel close on his heels, ran
first into the straight, and after Pershore had made
a respectable struggle and been beaten off below the
Leger the little champion ranged up alongside
Kennaquhair with it all on. The big horse only
stood the acid for about 50 yards. Poitrel sprinted
past him to the rails and crossed the line a good
three lengths in front. He ran the last mile of
the two in “38J,” and the whole distance in “23J,”
a record for the race. He was too close to Kenna-
quhair at six furlongs for there to be any doubt
about what was going to happen if Bracken stuck to
his job.
Vaccine (by Seremond) winner of the A.J.C.
Breeders’ Plate this year, Furious (by The Welkin)
who took the Gimcrack, and Poppyland” (by Popinjay)
first home in the Canonbury Stakes, have started
well, for three very rich prizes are attached to
these events. And yet it is well on the cards that
those efforts represent their finish as dividend-
earners. Not one big event at Randwick last week
was won by an animal that had been a juvenile
prodigy.
Cantering past the paddock in his preliminary for
the last race of the day neither Pay Day nor the
mannikin on top noticed the guard-rail across the
inner part of the track. In the collision the bov
came off and-Pay Day bolted. Away at the back
of the course someone captured the refugee, hopped
aboard and cantered him back to the 10-furlong pole.
Meanwhile Pay Day’s backers were eagerly laying
off him while Ike stretched the odds to 20 to 1.
But it was an unjustifiable scare. Young Simmons
—who brought himself into notice recently by
handling Sylvafort with conspicuous ability—was
replaced and lobbed home a rather easy winner.
* * * *
The Debutant Stakes race at Caulfield
confirmed this column's idea that slippery Salatis
was lucky to beat Sefton in the Maribyrnong Trial
at Flemipgton a week earlier. The Land of Song
colt was almost on terms with Orion at the dis-
tance, ail'd finishing strongly as before he won with
something to spare, whilst Sister Olive, a runaway
winner at Flemington, was unable, or unwilling
to make up ground lost at the start. In the Guineas
it was made clear that Etive touched her limit
when she beat Salitros over seven furlongs on the
Sydney side. Etive made the pace again for seven
furlongs, and then finished third to Midilli and Double
Bezique. The Toorak Handicap, often a guide to the
Cup nearly gave the books a joyful surprise. A few
yards past the post Red Dome was ahead of Lord
Setay, but when the judge was looking Setay had
a head the best of the rank outsider. The mare is
still short of perfection in condition, and on this
torm she has a chance of doing all that Ered Foulsham
had predicted of her (as regards the Cup) previous
to her bad run at Flemington.
Still it is hard to discover any reason for fancy-
ing Red Dome, or any other recent Victorian per-
former, against Eurythmic. The horse from West-
ralia added an easy win in the Caulfield Stakes
to his. local recor-d, and the fact that his staving
capacity has not been thoroughly tested on Mel-
bourne courses doesn’t affect his credentials as a
1 erth Cup-winner. It seems pretty certain as
racing certs go, that Eurythmic, with a good run,
7 , be r r, gJ lt there, or thereabouts, at the finish
of the Caulfield Cup. Salitros, on his A.J.C. Derby
form, is likely to beat the good thing, of course.
At reasonable odds Salitros will be a wiser invest-
ment than the red-hot favorite. “Class” is always
worth following. And if a tip from the betting
market can be trusted it were worth a gambler’s
while to back The Rover for a place, should that
exceedingly dark candidate be backed some more
during the week. The Rover was a disappointment
last year but he is still believed to be a good
horse, and his weight is only 7st. 51b.
* * * *
“0.K.”: Salitros, judged by his record
time in the A.J.C. Derby, and the sturdy sustained
effort of Syce. Knight in the Metropolitan, is an
exceptionally good colt. The assumption that this
seasons tinee-year-olds were a poor lot seemed rea-
sonable prior to the Randwick meeting, but at time
of writing it is just as reasonable to expect .Salitros
to win anything he starts for within the next four
weeks notwithstanding that Etive recently gave the
son of Limelight 151 b. and a beating over seven
inrlongs. Salitros may be another Poseidon, and
anyhow he should prove too good for any Victorian
iiojse.s that bump against him just now
*
Metropolitan Handicap form used to be
reckoned worth following for the Cups at Caulfield
and Flemington, and it should be all the more valu-
able now that the A.J.C. meeting comes in October
instead of September, and the Metropolitan goes a
furlong further than of yore. Pershore, as it hap-
pens, is at a disadvantage compared with ordinary
winners of the Randwick event. He will meet Ecarte
Syce Knight, Kennaquhair and others on at least
161 b. worse terms in the Melbourne Cup, owing to.
a marked diflerence between the hundicappers’ esti-
mates of him, whilst Kennaquhair will have a 201 b
advantage if they meet again at Flemington. Per-
shore, owing to the wily V.R.C. handicapper as much
as to his 101 b. penalty for capturing the Met., may
he counted among the unlikelies should be start for
vi v r ;' C( l’ l mt the lightweights—-Ecarte and
i 1 1 > I-' lOl t 0 mention Kennaquhair at 9st
C'rhk fu d l"?T r '? ll !u 011 p 2 per fOl- the Melbourne
Cup. Ihe tact that they outlasted Kennaquhair and
Finmark is a reason why they
should at least do better than
the' disappointing Kenilford
last year. Kenilford got full
credit for being the runner-
u P in th e Metropolitan,
whereas his performance
merely showed that old Rebus
could give him 341 b. and a
fair beating. The top-weight
beat everything when Kenil-
ford finished second. This
year the brilliant top-weight
was beaten b.y four of them
carrying from 7st. 81b. down
to Gst. 101 b., and two of these
were doubtless handicapped, in
a measure, by the juvenility
of their respective riders. The
small-boy trouble is, of course,
inevitable to the very light-
weights; still the easy bur-
den is appreciated by a tract-
able nag in a two-miles race,
and three times within the
last six years the Melbourne
Cup winner has carried not
more than 6st. 121 b. On
Metrop. running Ecarte has a
promising chance. His run at
the finish of the 13-furlongs
race impressed many people
with the belief that he is an
exceptionally good stayer, and
his victory in the Waverley
Handicap confirmed the im-
pression.
L. K. 8. MACKINNON,
chairman of the V.R.C.
“B-”: I saw Eurythmic in all his West-
ralian races, and find it hard to understand the
rhapsodies of the Melbourne critics, one of whom
actually compares him with Carbine. He is a
good horse certainly, but I don’t think he is as
good as Mistico was at the same age. The East
never saw the best of Mistico. The only time he
was ever properly fit was when Holt had'him, and
then he was an aged stallion, unquestionably past
his prime. And one recalls that Mistico won several
1-,-furlong races in the West, and came second with
a welter-weight in the two-mile Perth Cup, and yet
the Tyi nacre horse failed to stay among the superior
cattle he met in Melbourne. Jollv Beggar likewise
landed one Perth Cup, and ran second in another’
but would anyone class Jolly Beggar as a stayer ?
And the same doubt hovers about Eurythmic. He
saw out a distance in poor company; can he do it
in good company ? It remains to be proved.
* * * *
Adelaide Racing Chib is looking ahead
Its lease of a slice of the City Park lands runs out
11 years hence, and before spending an intended
£5OOO on improvements it has asked for a longer
term. The City Corporation has granted it another
21 years, but raised the rent from £BOO to £lOOO
* * * *
The defunct Syce sired two stayers at
the Bananaland Turf Club’s October meeting at
Eagle Farm, namely, Fayal, out of Azore, the October
Handicap (ljm.) winner, and Syceonelle, who
easily took the Guineas from the odds-on chance
Ivaramu (dam Ardonelle). In the Flying (6f.)
Ercanil put up a new Bananaland record for the
distance —lmin. 13sec.
Tiie South Australian Derby was con-
sidered a soft thing for Ilesso, with Repique as the
only possible danger. The son of Ayrshire Maid
ran a good race, but the unprognosticated Pogonatos
who paid a div. of £2O Is., ran a better. He
led over the last mile with Ilesso struggling gamely
to reach him, and prevailed on the post by a
whisker. Oddly enough, Sing, Hesso's former rider,
was on the winner. He also steered the evergreen
Anotto home first in the Weigall Handicap.
* * * •
The biggest of the Sydney grade cricket
crowds on Saturday was at Rushcutters Bay, the
lure being Jack Gregory, who was playing for Sydney
v. Central Cumberland. He bowled with tremend-
ous energy, but the wicket slowed him down a lot.
lour tor 46, all clean bowled. Asher, who got
three for 36, did well with the wind, but the eight-
ball convention doesn’t suit him. A three-ball over
would be more to his liking. Gordon’s attack brol>e
down against ’Varsity: they were without Macart-
ney. Hesslein (108) and Boyce (122) got all
over their bowling, more particularly the last-
named. Waverley rather crashed against Wests,
chiefly because Poidevin, Carter and Ivippax were
fluked out before they could make their mark on
the bowling. Glebe, in the absence of Kelleway,
had no hope of downing Petersham, and only the
efforts of Warren Bardsley (64) and Oldfield (68 n. 0.)
saved a severe batting-rot. Oldfield, who is bidding
for a place in the Australian team as ’keeper, is
not so expert as Carter behind the wickets, hut he
is a lot better in front of them. Punch looks like
carrying Norths this season. He got 37 out of 118, and
took two wickets for 29. Clarrie Hogue, a most
accurate and reliable slow-bowler, but with obvious
intentions, struck an excellent length against Middle
Harbor, and his six wickets averaged a little worse
than nine. Arthur Mailey, for M.H., displayed more
sense of direction than usual, and his four for 29
represented high-class bowling. Dr. Roy Minnett
turned out for the Seasiders, and got a couple of
wickets. Norths led by 10 runs on the first innings.
* * * #
M. B. Hesslein, who rattled up 108 v.
Gordon on Saturday, is having his first knock with
University in Sydney first-grade cricket, lie is the
lad who four years ago scoYed 243 (out of 848)
•for Sydney Grammar v. Scots’ College.
Balmain Fernleigh downed Granville in
N. S. Wales soccer championship on Saturday, chiefly
owing to the goal-kicking propensities of Moore.
He can reach the net from any angle. The only
two goals of the afternoon were shot by him in
the second half.
J. It. Hooper has been drawn against
S. S. Christey, a tormer amateur billiards champion of
England, in his first heat. A classy entry of 26
includes the champion S. 11. Fry, and five who have
held the title. Hpoper had to comb Australia for
a set of ivory bulls to practise with (ivories being almost
extinct here since composition balls came in), and
he is in love with his find. Although the ones he
secured are far from true, he has been able to exceed
the century several times, and he is confident that
he will be able to make big breaks under English
conditions. He leaves on October 16, and the first
heat won’t be played until February 13.
Alan S. Watt, the rising' N.S..W. tennis
Star, is on the small side for a champion so far.
But he may mend that, being only 20. Beforg this
year his best effort was to gather N. S. Wales G.
P. Schools’ tennis title; but within the past month
he has won Sydney Uni. undergrads.’ “A” cham-
pionship from North, and was doing well in the
Strathfield championships until he bumped the ex-
perienced Eric Pocklev. His efforts to smash high
tosses were weak, and he frequently double-faulted;
but in cross-shots and placing he was sound. Watt,
with M. 11. Marsh (captain), Norman and Frank
Peach, S. H. Henderson and H. S. Utz will repre-
sent N. S. Wales t>. Maoriland at Auckland in
December.
Some of the other countries are making a
big bid for the tennis supremacy of the future.
Tilden is said to coach personally about 200 young-
sters, just for the love of the thing. And the
Racing Club .home of the game in Paris helps, by
its best players, any boy or girl showing promise,
from 10 years old up.
* * # *
Adelaide Police Court has decided once
more that poker is not an unlawful game. The
Bench did not (as in the old American yarn) settle
the question Skill or Chance by adjourning the
court and losing all its money to'the accused in a
test game. But Sabine, S.M., frankly asked the
police whether the men charged, though they pleaded
guilty, had really committed an offence at all in
playing cards for money, in a hotel. The Act was
aimed, he said, at a person taking a “bank,” or
“deriving any part or percentage of any money
staked other than in his capacity as a player.” He
challenged the police to show “where the Act pro-
hibits the playing of a game of cards for money,
irrespeetiye of whether it is in a public place or
not.” They took an hour’s adjournment to think
it over; after which the defendants were allowed to
withdraw their guilty plea, and the information
lodged was adjudged to disclose no offence at all.
Fred Kay is. 10 years older and about a
stone lighter than Billy Shade, of California, and
in their contest at Sydney Stadium on Saturday
night he found the odds too great. In the first three
rounds Shade didn’t land a punch on the elusive
Westralian. He tried to box his man, and at that
game Kay was his master. But in the ninth round
the Californian went in to fight, and although Kay’s
headwork was brilliant and his clever feet got him
out of many an awkward situation, it Was the begin-
ning of the end. For every one of Shade’s punches
that reached its mark six tore ineffectual holes in
the atmosphere, but he forced relentlessly, and at
the end of the fifteenth round a limp Westerner
signified in the usual way that he had had sufficient.
Shade is no champion, but will beat more than will
beat him. Kay has gone into the beer trade, and
has probably fought his last Stadium fight.
Misguided enthusiasts are already claim-
ing that Shade is as good as Les Darcy was at his
age, which is 20. However, the Californian pos-
sesses neither the speed nor the pugnacity Les had.
In fact, all round, it is unlikely that he would
have gone a couple of rounds with the Maitland
v'onder. Jimmy Clabby and Harry Stone are both
faster than Shade, and should out-trick him, especi-
ally at infighting, at which he is far from effi-
cient. And if he outs Tommy Uren again when
they meet on Melbourne Cup night (as they are
scheduled to do) he will be lucky. Or Uren will
be careless.
PLACED HIM AT ONCE.
‘‘Who’s the little chop over there?”
Oh, that's Clinker, a really fine-hearted
little fellow, hut an awful liar.”
“I’ve met his companion. He's a golfer,
too.”
The winner of Sydney Sailing Club’s
second 18ft. handicap turned up in the Dunn-built
Kismet (scr.), superbly handled by W. J. Duncan
Onda, with veteran Jimmy Firth up, blowing into
second place. Second suits and ballooners pre-
vailed in the scud to Georges Heights, where
Advance carried away her extra. Arline, Desdemona
and Hero sailed great boats after hauling a wind
at the mark, but Iveriki and Mascotte were dead
as doornails, more especially the ex-Queensland
craft. In the final work back to Shark Island
kismet sailed right through the fleet, eventually
pushing her bumpkin over the line 50sec. to the
good, with 54sec. between Rocket (second) and
Arline (third). Britannia landed home ljmin.
behind Arline. The other events provided a remark-
able coincidence, inasmuch as four of the previous
Saturday’s winners, viz., Nerida (Balmain Ama-
teuK). Kangaroo (Sydney Dingy Club), Nesowa
r.J.b. Club) and Edna (Drummoyne Skiff Club)
again filled first places.
* * * *
This year’s Sydney G.P.S. athletic cham-
pionships were decided on a one-boy one-school
basis, with the result that what used to be a two-
days programme was put through in three hours.
F - w - Edwards (C.E.G.), tall and well-built, proved
the star. In three starts he took the 220yds.
(23 l-ssec.), 440yds. (53 3-ssee.) and 120yds.
hurdle _(IG 3-10 see.). His best effort was in the
hurdles, which he won by six yards. His time,
despite a handicapping S.-E. breeze, was only
l-10th sec. behind C. P. Stewart’s 17-year-old record.
Douglas Munro —-last year’s champion—won the
100yds. (llsec.), 121 b. shot-putt (42ft. sin.—2ft.
sin. better than his own record last year), and came
second in the 120yds. hurdles. In the distance
events, G. Hetherington (King’s) took the mile
(4min. 65 3-6 sec.), and finished second to F. W.
Bayldon (Sydney Grammar) in the half, and he
got a rousing shriek from his schoolmates. F. A.
Calder (Newington) high-jumped sft. 4in. ; and
O. C. Crossman (C.E. Grammar) collected the broad
with 20ft. 2Jin. In the “under 16” high jump, W.
F. Wiseman (Newington) got within an inch of
the open event winner—doing 2in. better than the.
record-book—and S. M. Smith (C.E.G.) in the
under 14” section negotiated 4ft. lOJin. Sydnev
Grammar won with 57 points from C.E. Grammar
(461), and Newington (28), representing the big
school’s 23rd championship since 1895.
* * * *
The last match of Victoria’s long-drawn-
out football season drew some 18,000 persons to
East Melbourne on Saturday, where ’Scray met
Brunswick. The Brickies predominated in speed,
marking and passing, but they couldn’t kick goals
for sour apples, tlieir total tally of 8 goals 18
behinds being three points less than ’Serav’s 10
goals 9 behinds. ’Scray was in arrears till the
middle of the last quarter, when a couple of goals
cleverly snapped by Dr. Park gave them a small
lead. Then, just on the stroke time, a Bruns-
wicker “marked” the ball where he could hardly
fail to miss the goal that was to mean victory.
However, he achieved the seemingly impossible, and
so lost his side the Association pennant for this
season.
* * * *
Otago v. Southland (M.L. Itanfurly
Shield holders), which ended the R.U. football
season in Dunedin, was one of the finest matches
of the .year. Otago won by 7—-3; a great dropped
goal by Edwards being the deciding factor.
THE ATHLETIC SPOOK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Conan Doyle is a great sportsman, and claims
that in Spiritland there is the same interest in
athletic and other sports as is manifested on earth.
In Spiritland they're sports, my boy,
And race a bit at times.
A handicap they much enjoy.
They have their horsey rhymes.
The spirit cups are swiftly run
On splendid spirit courses;
Spooks are their jockeys every one,
Bestriding spirit horses;
And punters there, (I don’t romance/
Have really got a ghostly chance.
This fact is absolutely true—
A lie Doyle would not tell—
■ The spirits play at cricket, too,
On meads of asphodel.
For “leg before” one is not out.
No spirit has, they hold,
A leg to stand on, though, no doubt,
A spirit can be bowled—
A charact’ristie, as you know,
Attached to spirits here below.
The spirit-sports to football take
On Saturdays at four;
And spirit-crowds the welkin break
With lusty roar on roar.
Yet, ’tis not probable, alack !
Much fun comes to the host.
What joy in kicking blue and black
A disembodied ghost?
How can they fittingly rebuke
An umpire who’s a fleshless spook?
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


Learn to Use Your Fists
You never know what moment you
will have occasion to use them, and
it would be a mighty uncomfortable
experience if you got a thrashing.
Your SIZE will not protect you if
you’re untrained—SClENCE will come
out on top every time. The man who
knows the art of Scientific Boxing
has it “all over” on his opponent.
I Teach
Boxing by Post
—teach you how to become a skilled and scientific
boxer. My methods are simple, practical and
thorough. You cannot fail to progress rapidly and
quickly, and you Will learn all the “hits,' “stops
and “moves’’ of the world’s most famous boxers.
Write for my interesting booklet, “Scientific Boxing
in the Home,” which will be mailed FREE to any
address. Just write your name and address across
this advertisement and post it to me with three
stamps to cover postage.
.
mm
I
M
We specialise in high-class Box-
ing Gloves and shall be pleased
to supply prices on application.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,
350 Municipal Buildings, 82a Oxford Street (Corner Crown Street), SYDNEY
1920 Aerial Derby
153 1-3 M.P.H. by a 300-H.P.
Martinsyde-Hispano-Suiza,
lubricated with
| u/}ICEFIELD
Regd.
MOTOR. OIL I
British and Best.
C.C. Co. Ltd.
Union House, George Street, Sydney;
and London.
<’ '4mW:
v %
s rmmmmiM
>
y
s
m
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Over the World*
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINkRY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAfI ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 0.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE Gl NERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
\
HEADACHE
and
vSORE
THROAT
YOU FEEL
TOO ILL
TO GET
UP—BUT
there’s an old and tested remedy which
will make you feel better immediately
and will cure you absolutely in two
days. When you wake up with a head-
ache and sore throat —
DON’T BE ALARMED! FEND OFF THAT
ATTACK OF ’FLU BY TAKING
GREATHEAD’S
MIXTURE.
Greathead’s is sold in generous-sized bottles, and one bottle is generally more than
enough to cure the most obstinate cold. It will also cure tonsilitis, bronchitis,
influenza, sore throat and quinsy. Never be without a bottle of Greathead’s.
YOUR CHEMIST AND GROCER SELL IT!
AN EXCEPTIONAL SHIPMENT OF
THE CELEBRATED
“OMEGA”
Hair Clippers
Spare plates to cut three different lengths included.
12/6 per set. Postage 6d. extra.
A. A. MARKS, LIMITED,
Importers of Tobaccos, Cigars and Cigarettes,
Head Office: 376 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
SHOPS EVERYWHERE.
The “Foster” Spot Welder
n supersedes the old riveting: method
A in connection with sheet metal-work of every description,
being simpler, cheaper and
considerably more efficient.
The two parts to be joined are pressed
together between two copper tips. The
work is raised to a welding heat by electric
current, and the joint completed, by pressure
through the copper tips. The welding time
approximates one second per l-16th inch
thickness. The “Foster” Spot Welder is con-
structed t<j stand rough usage, and shocks are
impossible. Five different strengths of weld-
ing current may be secured.
Further Particulars concerning
this anti Butt Welders
from Sole Agents:—
Homewood 8 O’Neill uS!;
Head Offices and Warehouse: 172-176 William
Street, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 1: Somerset Place, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 2: Ferrars Street, South Melb.
Sydney Office: 375 George Street.
Manufacturers:
FOSTER ENGINEERING CO., LTD-,
Wimbledon, London.
PERFECTION MARINE ENGINES
in any size for Pearling Schooners,
Working Boats, Pleasure Launches,
ftWKTW#ttW*(
El
Canoes, Dinghies, etc.
lyi to 8 H.P.
Heavy Duty
Type.
An exceedingly sturdy
arid reliable Single-
Cylinder model. Ideal
for the light launch
where engine space is
limited. Equipped
with weather-proof
igniter fo r certain
spark in all weathers.
MR. 11. JORGENSEN, well-known Sydney stevedore, writes ; —
I have been running one of your 4-h.p. marine engines fitted with
weather-proof igniter in my 20ft. by 7ft. 6in. beam double-ender work-boat
for last two years, using it day and night in all weathers, boarding
incoming ships. I do 6 to 7 m.p.h., averaging 50 miles per 24 hours, and
am often 30 miles out to sea. I will be pleased to demonstrate my
engine to anyone requiring an outfit, as it has never failed to bring me
home.—(Signed) H. JORGENSEN.
Immediate Delivery from Stock
of Caille Perfection Outboard and Bantam (inboard) Motors,
also 1-, 2- and 4-cylinder types from 2 to 30 H.P., for light or
heavy duty. Write for catalogue and all particulars to
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA AND PACIFIC ISLANDS,
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney. 138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
344-6 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Cable Address—“Brosbenson.” c. 360.


English Soft Felt Hats, brims 2| ins.,
cut edges; steel grey, dark slate, light
grey and fawn. Price, .. .. 45/.
Sound Hat 'Value
PRICE is only one ot the two factors
that determines value and is soon for-
gotten The other, is the worth of
the goods offered, and is measured by
service-giving qualities, combined with
comfort and appearance. Farmer’s in
selecting hats for men, give first consider-
ation to worth. More and more are men
coming to appreciate the fact that such
hats afford a satisfaction far outweighing
the slight disparity in cost between it and
an indifferently made hat.
Farmer’s, Sydney.
We Pay Carriage. Box 497, G.P.O.
Australian Soft Felt Hats, brims 23-
inches, cut edges; slate grey, steel,
light grey, fawn and navy. Price, 25/-
In Fashion s Bower.
Now that the time for pretty Summer Clothes
is here, Milady Australia is resplendent in
smart frocks contrived by Shave.
Milady is wise. She is aware that the choice
of fine apparel is an index to culture.
In consequence Shave tailors are kept busy
the year through, ado-rning her, without try-
ing her with fittings.
SHAVE,
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Cen treway,
Melbourne.
a
cf
a
Q
sHAVfc,
The name
“ Vanity
Fair” in Silk
Gloves is your
guide to Silk Glove
Worth at all times. The
guarantee with every pair pro-
vides for replacement free of
charge should finger tips wear
through before the rest of the
gloves have given reasonable
wear.
Ask your draper for Vanity Fair
Silk Gloves. He should have
them.
V.F. 21
V,
'tyfc
at\i
aer
S> SmiK (HLGMES
Melbourne
Chatter
DISPLAYBLACK
Whence comes
all that is
exclusive
Melbourne received the Forsters in a joyous
Spring mood, and the ceremony at Federal
Parliament House developed into quite a
happy function for the Queen’s Hall. He
is the handsomest G.-G. we’ve yet had —not
excepting even Dudley. Her Ex. wore a
simple but smart frock of hyacinth blue-
striped silk that matched her nice blue eyes.
After his Ex. had read off his official
remarks, she touched him gently on the
arm and reminded him to take his specs off.
The three ladies of the staff caused a
flutter on their entrance. All are hand-
some and smart, beginning with Lady Digby
and ending with our own auburn-haired
Wheatley dame. They were in black, and
sat in the front row. Brigadier-General
Wheatley is the most striking of the men ;
but Lieut. Norman has a bright, sailorly
eye which holds much promise.
At the swearing-in everyone even remotely
resembling an official had a nicely reserved
seat. The Billy Hughes pair brought Helen ;
the Quicks came down from Bendigo ; Jus-
tice Starke looked on with his wife; the
Donald MacKinnons and Admiral Grant pow-
wowed in between times., and Solicitor-
General Arthur Robinson brought a very
tired-looking wife along. An amusing fea-
ture of the occasion was the way in which
the politicians’ wives avoided seeing one
another,
Toorak and Melbourne in- general learnt
how to pronounce Forster when his Ex.
referred to himself as “Baron Foster” with-
out the “r.”
One of the new gentlielps—a titled one at
that —will have to acquire a more democratic
spirit if the Forsters are out for popularity.
At the Parliamentary reception, the draw-
ing-room shepherd, in lvis best barrack-room
tones, ordered, These women must be moved
at once to make way for their Excellencies!”
“But,” timidly observed the wife of a Federal
Minister, “those are the members’ wives.”
The gentle protest was not noticed, for when
the interjector’s husband drifted up to sup-
port his wife, the help again requested the
removal of “these women.” What a contrast
to Edward, I’., who refused to be red-
carpeted, and ordered the removal of plush
ropes and other aids to snobbery!
The outstanding feature of the swearing-in
of the G.-G. in the Queen’s Hall was the
dowdiness of the women, most of whom looked
as though they had thrown on any old thing
to rush to a bargain sale. The only exception
was Mrs. Arthur Robinson. The aides’
picturesque wives shone like stars. Lady
Digby is as pretty as the girl in an adver-
tisement for somebody’s soap, and her com-
rades are also sweet and fluffy. All their
dresses were sufficiently brief to make Mrs.
Grundies look appealingly at Victoria’s
statue.
Mrs. Traill, who was in the vice-regal
arrival procession, is mother of one of the
gent-helps. She is one of the Sumner clan,
and a sister of Mrs. Jim Grice and the Ryan
lady.
Federal Government House is not *as big
as it looks. The Digby pair are now look-
ing for a suitable humpy. The Wheatleys
will settle in the late George Steward’s bun-
galow in Government House grounds, while
the Pitt-Rivers will live under the vice-
regal roof.
Lady Digby, wife of Lord Digby, of the
G.-G.’s staff, is a very pretty young matron,
and she and the Forster daughter, Mrs. Pitt-
Rivers, will give quite a nice healthy family
tone to the building over the Yarra. floth
young matrons proudly exhibited their off-
spring in the usual group photograph on
Government House steps on the day of
arrival. It set Toorak an example.
Many of Mrs. Wheatley’s former acquaint-
ances (she used to be Esther Fairbairn)
are making efforts to recall themselves to
the buxom matron’s memory. Many things
are expected from her in the way of G.-11.
invitations; but, judging from the style and
manner of the new G.-G., the climbers’ cakes
will be dough.
In the final shuffle of the pack of proper-
ties offered for the new State vice-regal resi-
dence, the Scobie Mackinnons’ Toorak place,
Ivilbryde, has come out on top. The house
is accustomed to the presence of State vice-
royalty, for in the days of long ago Tom
Brassey made quite a habit of disturbing the
residents at their breakfast.
As Aikman’s health broke down and he
had to go into a private hospital, builder
J. W. Swanson got a walkover for the Gaud
Mayoralty. He is a native of Bendigo, is 55,
and has been a City Councillor for six years.
.Mrs. Swanson seems of the type who will
do well as Mayoress.
Popular Linda Byron Moore, who has the
best-dressed head in Melbourne, is off to
India early in November. She has just
returned from Rabaul. Government House,
Calcutta, will be her first perch. The Wil-
mington dame (once Mrs. Freeman Thomas)
is an old crony of Linda’s.
Geelong is having greatness thrust upon
it. The officer who is in charge of the sub-
marines is Captain E. C. Boyle, V.C. He
is very popular down Sleepy Hollow way.
The much-gilded William S. Robinson
couple, their young son and daughter, are
due in Australia by the Remuera, via
Panama. They are interested in Broken
Hill and other money-bags. Mrs. Robinson
was at one time Melbourne’s best skater on
ice.
Dan Gregory, of South Yarra, who went
west last week, was well known and liked.
He was chums with the Nicolson boys, Bob
and Danie, and other oarsmen of a decade
ago. His popular sister, Maudie Gregory,
has had more than a peck of trouble lately.
She had just returned from Asia with
her charge, Miss Dorothea Porter, when the
poor girl died suddenly from throat trouble.
Musical Mrs. Pauli Carter is another
Gregory sister.
At the Baillieus’ racy little fox-trot at
Ileathfield the other night Bailey and
Cowan, the Tivoli banjoists, twanged merry
jazz melodies. Cedric Henty helped the
racket with his drum.
Except, for a temporary strike of the or-
chestra lights, there was nothing to upset the
spirit of musical charity at the King’s on
Friday night. Secretary Mrs. Guy Miller,
in ebony and jet, guided the Irvines to their
seats. A Sassiety squash for seats then set
in. Vice-Chancellor Grice and his - wife were
prominent with their party. The Manifold
pair were present, and Mrs. Stein appeared
in an exquisite oyster wrap. The trio of
voice-teachers who had prepared the scenes,
got a glad hand at the close of the perform-
ance.
Two things struck one’s fancy at the
Hyams’ dance at St. Kilda Town Hall—the
joyous youth of the company and the good
manners thereof. Mrs. Florrie Abrahams, who
helped her sisters to hostess the hop, brought
daughter Alice in golden taffeta. Rose pink
upholstery softened the electric glare, and
nappers-once-removed did an elegant stagger
in fresh Spring-like apparel. Mrs. TI. S. Iv.
U ard. beaming in silver charmeuse and fresh
from her American trip, chaperoned a brace
of boys and a white-clad daughter. The
pretty Knox-Knight girl was there with her
mother.
A meeting to promote a juVenile ball to
help the Victoria Hospital was a frost,
not halt a dozen people turning up. Mrs.
►Stein, who convened the meeting, was not
present at roll-call, and the John Madden
widow icily moved that the thing should be
discussed at some future date.
- The George Blackwood pair have decided
to spend their Australian money in England
where the tax-collector goes about like a
roaring lion. The elder of the Russell giHs
goes along with her mother and stepfather;
the younger retires to school.
Mrs. Jack Good fed a couple of hundred
ot the Best on tea and cake in the Alexandra
Club drawing-room last Thursday. Her 16-
year-old daughter Marjorie helped to enter-
tain the guests. Society flappers are nowa-
days asked to do these light social jobs and
learn how to swank whilst making them-
selves useful.
The Titian-haired widow of Malcolm
Roberts is taking her only daughter Merle
to England on a six-months’ visit to her
aunt, the Countess of Darnley.
The weather was sultry on Saturday;
but some of the women who went out to
Caulfield to see the racing were taking no
chances with the weather, and put on their
furs. The Very Best had probably boxed
their most expensive frills for the days to
come. Navy and putty-colored garbs were
in the great majority, and there were flop
hats everywhere. The new vice-regals took
their first social plunge very quietly. Lady
Forster, very spare in her short ‘powder-
blue kilted coat and skirt and ostrich-
wreathed hat, was attended during the tea
interval by the Woodford dame, in ivory
tailor-built cloth. Lady Digby, in grey,
clung to Mrs. Pitt-Rivers, of the cream-
and-roses complexion. Her dressing (brown
with contrasting furs) wasn’t remarkable.
The plump Wheatley lady acted as honorary
courier to the group. The Irvine dame,
blue clad, with a wide straw hat, walked
with daughter Beatrice. The Norman
Hodges widow, just back from England,
aired graceless grey Jaffetas and the newest
anklet-strapped shoes. Mrs. Charlie Army-
tage was also in grey. The Ryan dame
did her gambling in blue, and Mrs. J. K.
Finlay wore nut-brown with a wild, red-
feathered headpiece. The Alston Wallace
dame loomed large alongside a smart navy-
clad visitor. The wonder of the day • was
Mrs. Percy Chirnside, who might have been
her son’s sister, according to her looks.
She was in black decker frills and many
pearls. The Norman Falkiner lady, back
from her Sydney frivol, fame and went in
putty jersey cloth ; her daughter wore ochre.
One of the best-cut “creations” on the lawn
belonged to Mrs. Jim McEvoy, whose trim
figure suited the russet and tango garb.
Gweneda Brown was there with a brace of
pretty Moule girls; and Joan Chirnside,
daughter of Andrew, sported startling henna-
colored cloth and furs.
Adelaide joins the tea-party:—
The attempt to raise an endowment fund of
£20,000 for Minda is the excuse for an Oriental baH
at the Palais Royal at the end of this month.
According to its promoters it is to be the spectacular
show of the season.
The Forsters put in a fairly busy week-end here.
A dinner at Government House on Sunday evening,
a civic reception on Monday, and a Sunday-school
demonstration at the Exhibition on Monday evening!
Also there was some golf at Seaton, a trip to
National Park, and a yarn with old-time cricketers
George Giffen, J. J. Lyons, Clem Hill and Gehrs.
May Stanley, who has been in Australia only
for about two months, having been reared in
Italy, has already said “Yes” to Dr. Albert
Weigall, youngest son of Theyre Weigall.
She is a daughter of Commander A. E.
Stanley, R.N., and a niece of Mrs. Riddell
Stanley. The families dwell opposite each
other at Elsternwick.
Eileen Hughes, daughter of the General,
has just agreed to, make sporting-squatter
John Feehan happy in the near future.
Eileen, one of Melbourne’s leading lady
tennisers, was to have married one of the
Wilson brothers, of Wagga (N.S.W.). He
died in France.
Herewith a portrait of Captain Savige,
D.S.O. and M.C., whose narrative of Stalky’s
Forlorn Hope was recently referred to on
the Red Page. Captain Savige, enlisting as
a private in the
24th, was a corporal
when he first smelt
powder on Gallipoli,
lie won his commis-
sion, and was one of
two officers left be-
hind at Lone I’ine in
command of 30 men
to cover the retreat
from the peninsula.
His work with the
Forlorn Hope Bri-
gade, composed of
picked men who
were warned against
exacting to survive
the expedition,
closed his military
career, though his
striking success in
soldiering had marked him as a suitable
applicant for a permanent job in his native
Australia. Indeed, it was with this end in
view that he resisted strong inducements to
think of entering the Indian Army. He
wanted to live among his ain folk. But to
enter the Australian Army he would have
needed to pass an exacting examination at
Duntroon in a very few weeks from the
date of his application, and he didn't make
the attempt.
Two popular young medicoes are nearly
due for the clergyman’s knot. Dr. “Bill”
Silberberg is to be wedded to pretty Vera
Kaye, of the wealthy warehouse Kayes, on
October 21. Dr. Pat Denehy, who is en-
gaged to a Miss Palmer, of Northcote, goes
to the altar early next year.
The nuptials of Dr. McGee and Sister
Lilian Stretch were quietly celebrated at
St. Pat.’s. The handsome bride wore fawn
charmeuse and a hat. After making quite
sure they had seen the bride, onlookers
turned their attention to mother-in-law
McGee, who wore beautiful old Spanish lace
and looked as though she had been created
by Velasquez.
Meantime, on the other side of Fitz-
roy Gardens, another wedding was being put
through at Holy Trinity. The parties were
Miss Ball, of the Flinders-.street drapery
family, and W. Watson. All the flatters in
East Melbourne came forth from their retreats
to view the rags ; —the gladdest that have
trailed Holy Trinity floors for many years.
The bride was gorgeously attired in white
charmeuse and Limerick lace. Sisters and
mothers-in-law were handsome presences,
for the most part in black charmeuses.
There were some wonderful sequin cloaks,
and amongst the large attendance of
sw T allow-tails and white shirts were several
of the Treadway clan. In fact, it takes
the good old rag trade nowadays to turn
out anything like a decent wedding. Such
expensively-clad functions serve as stimu-
lants to “the best class of business.”
Mrs. Jennie Easterby did not long sur-
vive her husband, R. T. Easterby, the veteran
journalist. She passed out at Sale last
week. Harry Easterby, the Bananaland
sugar expert, is one of her sons.
Buckley's statuesque show girl and beauty,
Buby Brennan, left last week for London on
the firm’s business.
The Henry Jones dame, of Hobart, has
been at the Oriental. She used to cross over
to the Federal Parliament nearly every even-
ing. taking her schoolboy son with her. The
ill-fated Amelia J„ which has vanished from
the seas, is a namesake of hers.
Though the Verbrugglien orchestra, with
memories of the previous Melbourne visit
fresh in its young mind, may complain of
comparative neglect these racing times, the
string-quartet party had an even colder time
at its first matinee concert in the Assembly
Hall. Outside of the few who think dulness
essential to fine music, the concert had no
audience. The quite frivolous tunefulness
of the Mozart number made it interesting
enough, but the heavier Beethoven piece
and the interminable infliction by Franck
depended too much on the two leading in-
strumentalists. Neither the first violin nor
the ’cellist produces a tone that reaches the
heart. Accurate treatment of the score
and “unexpected renderings” of passages
may be all that’s necessary to please earn-
est students; but the public, even in its most
charitable after-dinner mood, wants what a
distinguished ’cellist used to call “fried-fish
feeling.” The hard-working professor and
’cellist Messeas are not thrilling performers.
Is it blasphemy to remark that Verbrug-
ghen’s tone is on the cold and hard side?
There is more charm in his easy way of
playing than in the sounds you get from it.
There was.a mixed multitude at the King’s
for “F.F.F.” on Saturday night. The 300
Mildura men and maids De Garis fetched
from Mildura to .see his play removed the
racing atmosphere usual at shows during
carnival time. Big Bob Greig and Beatrice'
Holloway were in the managerial pen with
dancer Daisy Yates. C. J. De Garis and
his slim wife occupied the other with their
three little daughters. Barry Lupino and
Gertie Latchford, in the d.c., cast a sad eye
on their last Australian audience ere leav-
ing for South Africa and England. Dorothy
Menzies, wistful in black,, supported Mrs.
Workman.
Charles Ivenningham, the once-beloved
J.C.W. tenor, was in Melbourne last week
to consult one more specialist, but got no
encouragement. His hearing will never en-
able him to return to practice as a singing
master. Still it might be worse than it is.
Behind the scenes at Her Majesty’s, advis-
ing Jack Ralston as to the part of Archibald
Grosvenoi in “Patience,” Charlie found it
easy enough to hear what Ralston said and
sang when he didn’t drop his voice to a
rehearsal mumble. Also the veteran is not
too deaf to compose ballads, as in his old
stage days, and he made a business call at
Allan’s before escaping from our climate.
None of the actors from Britain who have
lived long in Sydney seem to have much
use for Melbourne’s climate.
Louie Dunn’s fine voice and diction gained
her the title of “Champion of Champions”
for classical recitation at the Ballarat South-
street Competition. Louie’s spouse is popu-
lar little Anglican sky pilot Len Arnold, and
they first met when amateur mumming. Her
fine work in Gregan McMahon’s production
of “The Trojan Women,” for which Mar-
shall Hall wrote the incidental music, is
w r ell remembered.
A tea will happen at Menzies’ on Friday
to welcome Vera Pearce and Ivy Shilling-
back to Melbourne. Vera’s dash into over-
seas pictures has been baulked by the Tivoli
heads, who could not find anyone else to play
Lily Brayton’s part in “Chu Chin Chow.”
Father W. Quilter, Administrator of the
pioneer Catholic Church in Melbourne (St.
Francis’s), has just celebrated his silver
jubilee. The £4OO handed to him as a gift
lie has transferred to the Foundling Home
at Broadmeadows.
One feels rather sorry for Mrs. Conan Doyle,
sitting at the right hand of her husband,
when he introduces her name into his mono-
logue. She looks as though the spirits
sometimes moved her to mutter something,
but she mustn’t. Hers is the absolutely
silent part. The lady is as sincere a spirit-
ualist as her husband, but she doesn’t look
to have the soul of a propagandist. Conan
would like to shout his oft-told tale from
the housetops, whereas his wife would rather
unfold it gently in heart-to-heart talks.
Hubby, with his commercial traveller method
of scorning his critics, is the combative
n.ember of the firm.
Talking of glad rags and frills, well-
chosen and fitted, the remarkable success in-
business of those three Westralian sisters in
our midst must have needed a lot of per-
sonality to achieve it. Pluck and persever-
ance wait on personality in the making of
a Name. Apart from the courage of their
ideas the sisters had only £3O in cash when
they began to cater for the wants and vanities
of their kind. Incidentally, there’s now a
husband apiece added to the firm, which they
founded ere high prices and enforced re-
novations came in to cripple the cashboxes
of some of their earliest customers.


A DELCO-LIGHT PLANT
FOR EVERY PURPOSE.
a
KILOWATT
DELCO-LIGHT
PLANT
m
mm
r :
PfJPfl
- > 'A
m '
"■' ”■ '■ ” '£ft
.V7'-vWi;.
•V ■ .
I ■:
l ill®?
«•
\
m
II 1
% 3
■
. .?$■ ;■<
/ffiiV
BfeJ /” Jt.ij : vESnPtl' MBBit
wSfr $• tr » I R. 3? -♦ •.
- _■ — ~ ■
iis ili
iMisr
1
*.s'i
Three-quarter
Kilowatt Plant
m
2 1 /2 Horse Power
Gas Engine
*
One Kilowatt
Pu/lev Plant
€6=63
IM
m£M l
UJtU
¥
Three Kilowatt Plant
For Small Towns
and Large Farms
C- -ij'
t -;
One Kilowatt
Plant
Delco- Light __
IVater System,
operated ly
Delco- Light
A new model—the \ Kilowatt—is now added to the family of Delco-Light products
making a line of farm light- and power-plants that meets varied needs, large or small.
The i Kilowatt is a smaller size Delco-Light plant, designed for installation where the
use of electric light and power is not too heavy, such as in farm-homes, summer camps
and motor-boatsf The \ Kilowatt plant with a large battery can be used for pumping
water, ironing clothes and operating churns, separators and other power devices.
Like the 1 1 and 3 Kilowatt Delco-Light plants—the { Kilowatt has the famous valve-
in-the-head engine. It is air-cooled, runs on kerosene, and is furnished with a thick plate
long-lived Delco-Light battery.
There is a trained Delco-Light man near you who can figure
your requirements and advise you as to the size plant you need.
New South Wales:
WARBURTON,
FRANKI LTD.,
307-311 Kent Street,
SYDNEY.
Victoria:
WARBURTON,
FRANKI LTD.,
380-382 Bourke St M
MELBOURNE.
Queensland:
SMELLIE & CO.,
LTD.,
BRISBANE.
South Australia:
PARSONS &
ROBERTSON LTD.
Grenfell Street,
ADELAIDE.
West Australia:
GEO. WILLS
& CO.,
PERTH.
Tasmania:
W. F. & E. A.
STEWART,
29 Cameron Street,
LAUNCESTON.
New Zealand:
A. D. RILEY & CO.
380-382 Bourke
Lambton Quay,
Wellington.
FARMERS’ CO-OP.
ASSOCIATION,
Christchurch.
W. A. CROWLE LTD., 161-163 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY, Distributors.


Charles
Vintage 1911
CMPM
HE PLUS DLTRfI
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Oriental
Hotel
is accepted as Vic-
toria’s greatest
achievement in fashion-
able hotel service. It
is distinguished by its
sumptuous appoint-
ments, service and
environment, and
offers the tourist alto-
gether delightful ac-
commodation.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club.)
By
mmm
mk
M
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Pine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths, Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per day, or from
Four Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
BOND’S TRIPLEWEAR HOSE.
Made in Australia.
r
AN IDEAIi HOSE,
combining wonderful wear with beautiful
appearance.
Retail Selling Price, 12/1 i per pair.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Dayid Jones
SYDNEY
We are far, far away from the long skirt
and the dignity of line .said to be the latest
frocking of our French sister. The note struck
throughout the A.J.C. Spring Meeting was
infantile. Everywhere were frills and tucks,
sashed organdies and calf-length taffetas,
rainbow ribbon effects at neck and waist, and
half the millinery hanging over with grapes,
purple and white looking, as though it were
advertising Australian Dried Fruits. There
was one overpowering Bacchante with a
side-tilted hat that looked like a Mildura
-grape-rack; and there was an oyster-grey
satin frock not half a yard wide around the
hem. A homely old country couple watched
the sinuous vision. Father gasped. “She
couldn’t get even bloomers under that,” he
said—“she must be wearing tights!”
Margaret Tooth, in a white frock with
rainbow ribbons at neck and waist, was one
of the prettiest present, though, the younger
Rolin girl’s primrose taffeta, with the same
sort of ribbpn effects, deserves an honorable
mention; and cousin Jill Rich was like a
draught-board in checked blue crSpe. The
Banjo Patersons looked as though the Man
from Snowy River had brought them the
luck of it, Mrs. Banjo, as straight as a
dart, smiling from under a turned-up hat-
brim. Mary Grant, from Queensland, and
the Otway Falkiners recurred in the chang-
ing groups of each day; and Mrs. Floyd
and Nan Garvan were constant devotees.
Lady D. wore nasturtiums in her hat and
soft tones of yellow in her frock, and was
called upon during the afternoon by Mrs.
Philip Morton in black plumage. Alison
MacCormiek, in a one-piece tailor-made,
upheld her reputation for looks, and another
fair one walked blazoned in broad-arrows
and swastikas. Sunshades were in all
women’s hands, fluttering wide in a sudden
burst of sunshine like a flight of brilliant
tropic butterflies.
Nor did every woman leave the bookie the
richer by her plunge. Mrs. Herbert Clay-
ton on Wednesday drew a neat £2OO for'a
double, and another tucked £250 in her bag.
On Saturday once more the pansy bed at
Randwick cast a thoughtful eye on the rush-
ing, pushing throng that had never a spare
glance to fling in its direction. The women
for the most part clung to the sunshine at
the back of the stands, only dashing to the
bleakness of the front-d*or just before each
race started. Even on a warm day a wrap
is an essential part of a Randwick outfit;
ninons and georgettes are worn only by the
foolish virjgin, the wise widow and' the
divorcee sticking to tailor-mades and fur
capes. The divorcee and near-divorcee, by
the way, have been quite the smartest things
of the Spring meeting, leaving both Solomon
and the lily of the field a long way behind
them in glory.
Vice-regality withdrew itself on Saturday,
and hung up its haloes at the All Schools
sports; but Dot Brunton, in corn-colored
hair, knee-length skirts, a variegated petal
toque and a fur coat, made her first appear-
ance of the season chaperoned by a naval
chaplain. Blonde Mary Grant wore fuchsia-
pink silk stockingette with fringe trimmings.
Mrs. Otway Falkiner looked like John
O’Groats’s missus in a Paisley shawl bal-
lasted with fur; with her was the Mait-
land lady in browns that shaded from nut-
shell to sand. Mrs. Clayton went about her
business in a navy-blue cape, and sister Rita
wore blue streamers to her tight-fitting bon-
net. Mrs. George Sly wore one of the
new Pagoda hats and was mainly Oriental
blue in her frocking; the Caro family picked
winners steadily, and Mrs. Jack Campbell
had shed the famous furs. The Tivoli was
represented by the latest thing in millinery
and handbags.
One of the most joyous adornments of the
Lawn through the meeting has been a
braw Highland laddie in kilt an’ sporran an’
all, with his heather-mixture hose fastened
up with what looked like red sealing-wax
tabs. (Of course he backed Prince Charles
steadily.) An up-to-the-minute French
model in cream ..cloth adorned a tall young
woman who bore the severe buttoned-up-the-
front-to-the-chin coat with a debonair charm
that made Mrs. Thirteen-Stone gnash her
teeth in envy; Mrs. Swinson wore black and
white tailorings: pretty little Mrs. Biloela
Webb wore a yellow dress and a crochet hat;
and a lady in a three-tier black taffeta frock
had added as an afterthought a deep flounce
of white Swiss embroidery. It looked to the
uninitiated as if her most intimate garments
had slipped their moorings.
Major-General Six' Geoffi'ey Feilding,. who
arrived on the Sonoma on Tuesday and is
staying at Govermhent House, will have no
difficulty in finding his way about the place.
His tall, stooping figure and fair moustache
were familiar to Sydneyites under the Duff
regime. He had a brigade for a time in the
Great War, and later on was G.O.C. London
District. He is Lady Davidson’s brother, and
they belong to the Denbigh family, through
which they are Connected with the Cliffords,
Dormers, De Traffords and other important
Lnglish R.C. clans.
Governor Davidson, sporting the old favo-
rite grey felt, paraded the Dame before the
G.I. schoolboys’ mothers and best girls at
the Cricket Ground on Saturday. When
they appeared to be browsing contentedly in
the official stand, president Maughan" led
them on the arena; but the sight didn't
divert the cheers from the youthful gladia-
tors. Congratulations and smiles for the
successful high-jumpers over, the party wan-
dered off again'. Her Ex.’s white costume
and white low-heeled shoes harmonised with
the Spring apparel of the thousands.
Dame Melba had at latest made up her
mind to be with us for Christmas. Her
health is not at all good, and once more she
is longing for the sunshine. John Lemmone
is ah-eady invited to eat Christmas indi-
gestibles with the songbird and her family
at Coombe Cottage.
The Arthur Tooths’ dance the other night
at Sargent's was a coming-out party to
daughters Isabel and Margaret, who, by the
way, were pupils of Miss West’s becoming-
famous Frencham. The party was the last
word in luxury, and included Sydney of all
ages, from the 18-year-olds up to father’s
decade.
The Tony Horderns’-dance was an impress-
ive 1 unction of Race Week. Everything was
done in the handsome, heavy style. Inci-
dentally, the travelling half of the Macarthur
twin, who is globe-trotting with Mrs. Lobby
Hordern, writes back wistful letters declar-
ing that with all the world to choose from
a peg on the Double Bay family hatrack
will do her for life.
The other night the Town Hall housed
the annual concert for the widows and
orphans of those who have gone down to
toe sea in ships and have never returned
The hall was crowded with well-dressed,
prosperous people who had come on invita-
tions. The Humane Society’s medals were
given out, and up on the platform a gallant-
looking small girl of eight had a medal
pinned on her for saving the life of her small
playmate, and an inconspicuous woman
meekly took her reward for saving a man
from being gored to death by a mad bull.
There was tremendous applause—and then
the collection-plate was passed around. Sir
Walter and each one of the pai'ty on the
platform threw in a note, making up at least
±2O among them. From the rest of the
crowded hall £3O was reaped! Total £5O,
and not a bean paid for gate money !
This, is Myrtle Thorne’s picture. She is
the girl with the big contralto voice
who is soon going
to London to
ke e p up Austra-
lia’s fame as
a land of golden
voices. (M r.
Knibbs really will
have to add golden
voices to this coun-
try’s primary pro-
ducts.) Good John
Lemmone is only
waiting for Melba’s
arrival to intro.
Myrtle to the Dame.
Meantime she faces
her first Town Hall
audience next week.
The photo comes
from the Pox studios
at Burwood.
On Saturday, October 16, the Repertory
.Theatre will see May Summerbelle’s “Play-
goers launched upon what promises to be
a successful sea of singing and acting.
Everybody who goes in for private theatri-
cals is in the Playgoers’ Society—Mrs.
\ enour Nathan, Rita Kirkpatrick, Marie
Segur and some who have never done and
probably never will do a songandance turn
in their lives, like the McMillan lady and
Mrs. Willie Collins. Old favorite Nellie
Stewart is trainer-in-chief.
There was excitement the other day at
Prince Alfred and Sydney hospitals when
the word ran round that, perhaps in atone-
ment for having taken no wife, Dr. Herschel
Harris had left the nurses of the two big
places £4ooo——half each. There were
visions of recreation halls and tennis-courts
and comfortable lounges. But. on the whole,
they were just as well satisfied when they
knew that the money is to go to benefit sick
nurses—especially to tide them over con-
valescence.
Mabel Osborne, of Turramurra, has
engaged herself to Ronald Osborne, lately
major of the 4th A.F.A. Brigade, who sports
an M.C. and the Croix de Guerre and lives
at Manly.
Another ring-collector of the week is Hilda
Davenport, only daughter 0 f the E. J. Daven-
ports, of Double Bay. Her young man hails
from ’Ampstead, and ’is name is Dick
Johnson.
A recent wedding at St. Andrew’s was the
very smart one of Eva Aileen Rutherford, of
Bondi, and Major Robert Anthony Patten,
with Dean Talbot as O.C. The bride’s wed-
ding garment of white charmeuse carried an
overdress of Limerick lace which has
attained its century. Bride’s sisters Louie
and May followed the wedding finery in shell-
pjnk taffeta and pale-blue ninon. Captain
VV. Hmdmarsh was best man, and Captain
Walters groomsman. Bride’s mother enter-
tained the party at the Pitt-street Volun-
tary Workers’ Cafd.
A wedding with a Bananaland interest
happened at St. Philip’s Church last week
when Beryl Barnes, oqJ.v bud of the Charles
Barneses, formerly of Bolivia station, Ten-
terneld, married ex-A.1.F.-er and medico-to-
be _ Harold Pain, whose dad is Dr. Francis
i ain, of Allora. Tulle and satin formed the
wedding-dress. Rene Pain and Doris Arm-
strong were frilled to the waist in yellow
shot taffeta • and attended the bride, while
Harold s interests were looked after bv Jack
iNinimo and Clive Farqulmr. The Harold
lains are off by the Naldera to Edinburgh
where the medical degrees grow.
Maiy Marlow is that anomaly, a young
actress who wants to leave the stage to join
the Inky Way. Her family needs no intro-
duction to old Vic-
tori a n s and the
borderlapd of Denili-
quin. For herself she
took a leading part
in the Bert Bailey
successes—the part
she played in “On
Our Selection” is
being played in Lon-
don by Evelyn Guil-
ford Quinn, who is
Australian too. Mary
has toured all Eng-
land with stock
companies, and dur-
ing the war nursed
at Quex Park, close
to Margate, and was
through 119 air raids.
In the intervals she
wrote two books, “Kangaroos in King’s
Land” and “The Women Who Wait.” She
made what she hopes will be her final stage
appearance as a German spy in “The Luck
of the Navy” which finished up at the Palace
on Saturday.
Flo Gilbert, of Bellevue liill, is to be
married to Captain Hurd, M.C., in the first
week in December. He served with the 47th
Battalion (A.1.F.). After a honeymoon in
the mountains they will settle in Rockhamp-
ton (Q.).
The Trench Mortar Batteries (A.1.F.)
send out a notification of their reunion at
the Oxford-street hall on the 29th. The
reunion, it is definitely stated, will take
the form of cards and jazz. Remember the
mining-camp that to a man received
cards for a soiree, and held a guessing com-
petition as to what was to be the night’s
amusement. Opinions being entirely dif-
ferent, the camp decided to go equipped for.
euchre, a surprise party, a lassoing contest,
a shooting match and a bit of glove-work.
All the old Mortar-mixer need weigh him-
self down with is a ticket, not procurable at
the door. Captain E. H. Booth, the Univer-
sity, will supply cards.
John Clarke, J. D. Fitzgerald’s son-in-
law, opened the new La Scala Theatre in
Dublin. The new theatre, in spite of Sinn
Fein, has been built on magnificent lines,
like the London Opera House, having boxes
all round the back of the dress-circle.
The Welsh Choral Society, led by conduc-
tor E. H. Jones, settled down to a steady
night’s work after the rousing National
Anthem that lifted the Town Hall nearly to
the top of Snowdon. The joints of the even-
ing were Hubert Parry’s “Blest Pair of
Sirens” (and evidently he hadn’t lived on the
water-front) and the Easter Hymn from
“Cavalleria Rusticana.” The Raff and
Rubinstein by the string quartet
were the sparkling wines that accompanied
the beef; Saidie Grainger-Broad proclaimed
in lightsome trills and runs “I am Titania,”
and baritone William Dallison and G. Vera
Barnett rounded off the feast.
It’s a pity Dot Brunton had to shed the
first freshness of her Paris frocks over “Yes,
Uncle,” for there is so little music and no
comedy at all in its make-up. Dot Has
added quite another stone to her plump little
figure, and has developed a habit of stand-
ing and dancing with her legs apart—per-
haps a result of air-raids, when it was neces-
sary to get a good, firm foot-grip. Dot’s
Pompadour frock, all puffs and bunchings,
makes her look like a newly-bathed baby
peeping over a large powder-puff. The
hooped apricot satin in which she goes to
the Pour Arts Ball is not such a success;
it suggests a naughty little girl who has
tried to get away with John Chinaman’s
fruit baskets by hiding them around her
waist.
The Voluntary Workers’ Caf6 has been
the scene of two fancy-dress dances in aid
of the cafd funds this month, the one last
week being almost entirely confined to the
flapper and little sister and brother. lan
Bissett Amess’s Mark Antony and Enid
Purse’s Joan of Arc made a glittering com-
bination, if a slight anachronism. The
Puller lady, Mrs. Pred Flowers and Kath-
leen Armstrong judged the costumes, and
Mrs. Rutter helped the success.
Sydney Anglicians from the rich parishes
will make their pilgrimage to the yearly
sale of work in overcrowded S. Saviour’s,
Redfern, on Wednesday, the 20th.
Arthur Rickard has started the Gladys
Bourke subscription list with £IQ 10s„ and
the Millions Club to a man is showing a
kindly interest in the five-feet-odd of pluck
with the musical Vesuvius boiling over in-
side it.
The North Sydney C. of E. Grammar
School holds its dance to-morrow (Friday)
in aid of the Memorial Playing Fields. The
hostesses —a charming set of women —are
pleased with the progress the cricket grounds
and tennis courts are making; but there are
10 more acres to get into trim.
Norman Nock (he’s a son of Nock and
Kirby) has been working in Selfridge’s since
the war and the hospitals loosened their
clutches on him. Then he passed on to a
founded-before-the-Roman Conquest English
firm, and worked there for some time. When
lie decided to leave, the patriarchal estab-
lishment, to the Aussie’s surprise, handed
him a gold stop-watch and some remarks
about conscientious attention to business.
So that’s another illuminated address to the
Digger.
Mrs.- J. C. Williamson, Crichton Imrie,
Bishop Hayden, Father Campion (Bathurst)
and Dr. Bolger (Sydney) were Australians
who dashed across to the troubled land for
the Dublin Horse Show. Mrs. J. C., accord-
ing to a Dublin newspaper, had ’em all on—
tailor-made in black-and-white checks and
black silk braid; a large black tagel hat,
with a bird-of-paradise peering dowm at the
white fox fur and her black opals from Aus-
tralia.
A speaker at the Housewives’ Association
meeting at the Town Hall on Saturday
sounded an earnest note :
I call upon every woman to revolt by declaring
she will not bear children until the men make this a
safe place for children to live in, by seeing that they
are provided with sufficient supplies of nourishing
food at reasonable cost.
Aristophanes conceived the idea of this par-
ticular form of irritation strike 2300 years
ago. Its weakness as a social bludgeon has
ever been the inalienable tendency of the
young and irresponsible to blackleg on the
older stalwarts. In other words, if only
the Housewives’ Association could abolish
Spring, the scheme might be a complete suc-
cess.
A late Sketch has a portrait, all black
chiffons and flowing draperies, suggestive of
Diana of the Crossways, of Mrs. Ronald
Forbes, who was a Government House per-
sonage in the Strickland reign. She fell
into disfavor mainly through making up her
complexion indiscriminately in dressing-
room or ballroom, and managing to have a
rattling good time in the heart of dullness.
She’s been writing books and travelling, her
“Unconducted Travellers” having had quite
a success.
There will be much interest in George
Forbes’s latest novel. His grandmother and
•her Chief-Judicial spouse are the central
figures. When bachelor George was secre-
tary of the Pioneers’ Club he used to collect
his lady-friends to Friday afternoon tea
parties there. But quite another set of
pioneers have the running nowadays.
Dulcie Deamer, who made such a sensa-
tional arrival as an authoress 12 years ago,
still devotes her mornings to novel-plots, and
as a mind-quickener finds a jazz refreshing.
But she is no matrimonial slacker, for she
has produced four sturdy Australians. “Reve-
lations” is the name of the last novel that a
London publisher accepted.
Lebby Hordern’s week-end cottage at
Narrabeen was broken into on Friday night.
It is a big, rambling place, standing well
back from the road and beach amongst trees,
and the wonder is that it wasn’t entered be-
fore. Crime has been waving almost un-
hindered in the village for some time past,
but is now a risky venture owing to increased
police activity and the expressed resolve of
some of the inhabitants to shoot unauthorised
midnight callers on sight. But the most in-
explicable feature of the affair is that nothing
was taken. Every room was ransacked as
though the intruders imagined he kept the
family jewels on the premises.


I =■
fcSTB
1853
hardy brothers ltd
JEWELLERS
Wedding Present.
top ’fflsPM
Solid Silver Muffineer Set; Mustard Pot and Salt
Cellar have glass linings and Silver Spoons.
Mustard Pot .. .. £ 3 3 0
Salt Cellar . .. £1 18 0
Pepper Muffineer .. £ 1 18 0
Complete .. .. £6 19 0
The Company’s stock of Solid Silver and Silver-plated
Ware offers the finest selection in the Commonwealth
for Wedding, Complimentary and Presentation Gifts of
High Quality.
Orders from the Country receive prompt
and careful attention, and Selections
are forwarded on approval, if desired.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Jl6- U 8 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
London.
298 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Gas Cooker and Ice Chest are both
necessary In the Summer Kitchen for
Comfort and Appetite.
15he
Fletcher-Russell
Gas Cooker,
%
the leading English Cooker, constructed from
the best English iron in the solid way of our
forebears, is practically indestructible. It is
enamelled inside and is a jacketed stove, which
means it heats up quickly and remains hot on
a moderate gas consumption. Turns out savory
roasts, reminiscent of the old wood fire, in a
way which Sir Oliver Lodge describes as a
“cleanly and almost laboratory operation.”
No. 82, Price £l5.
The Other Extreme of Comfort in the
Kitchen is
THE DANKS
IGE CHEST
It provides an appetising foil and contrast to
the gas-cooker, in the form of cool, sweet milk
and cream, firm, luscious butter, jellies and
ices, at a few hours’ notice; keeps the meat
fresh till cooked, and the cold joint, left over,
good for further use.
These solid oak chests do all this on a moderate
ice supply, and themselves keep sweet and
clean.
Price £5, £6 8 9.
Call in and inspect, also Fireless Cookers & Electric Cooking Appliances.
JOHN BANKS 8 SON PTY. LTD.,
324 Pitt Street (near Liverpool Street), SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE.
DAYLIGHT-LOADING
ROLL FILM CAMERA.
Ansco No. la,
*7/5/-
There is no better Camera
made than the Anscoi, and
there is no more serviceable
model Ansco than the No. 1 a
at £7/5/-
This model is folding, is
made of Aluminium, cov-
ered with Best Seal Grain
Leather, and has Leather
Bellows, heavily Nickel-
plated fittings, and Rever-
sible Brilliant View-finder.
It is fitted with Rapid Sym-
metrical Lens, in Ilex
General Shutter, giving
exposures 1-sth, 1-1 Oth,
1 -25 th, 1-5 Oth, 1-100th
second, time and bulb.
The size of photo is x
inches.
THe House for GOOD Cameras,
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
144 Queen Street, Auckland;
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.!
Harringtons also sell British-made Ensigns
and Kodaks.
24 keen shaving-edges!
You get twelve keen blades
with every Gillette Safety
Razor. Every blade has TWO
shaving edges.
Every edge is factory-sharpened. You
haven’t to do the sharpening before
your shave —and after it.
Gillette is .the no-trouble razor-
stropping —no honing.
By a simple twist of the handle you
can adjust the blade for a close or a
light shave.
These features have made Gillette
the universal razor, the choice of
twenty million men throughout the
world.
Standard Set, complete in leather
case .... 28/6
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR CO., Canada.
S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Wholesale Agents,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide.
■X9WN THE
WORLD OVER
L
ss*


cram
SOAP
For Shaving, Bathing
and Shampooing
The secret of
healthy up-to-
date shaving is
use of Cuticura
Soap, the “Cuti-
cura Way”. No
mug, no slimy
soap, no germs,
no free alkali, no
irritation even when shaved twice daily
One soap for all uses —shaving, bath-
ing and shampooing.
For sample each address: “R. Towns &
CojjSydney, N. S. W.” Sold everywhere.
Cutirura Soap shaves without mug.
Soap, 1/-; Ointment. 1/- & 3/-
“There's Money
in the Pen.”
If you wish to fol-
low a lucrative, re-
fined and pleasant
occupation—
Learn to Draw.
If you wish to
amuse your friends
and afford yourself
endless pleasure—
Learn to Draw.
Learn
to
Draw
by
Mail
The Harry J. Weston School of Drawing is
based on the actual methods and experience
of one of Australia’s most successful «om-
mercial artists. It cuts out the drudgerv,
and is full of interest from the first lesson.
It teaches how to DRAW, not merely to
COPY. Many pupils have more than paid
for their course before it was completed by
the sale of their own work.
Send three stamps to cover postage, and we
will forward you our illustrated booklet,
“There’s Money in the Pen.” It tells you
all about the original “Weston Method,”
fees, etc.
The Harry J. Weston Postal
School of Drawing,
11 Union House,, corner George and
Grosvenor Streets, SYDNEY.
FOR
ARCHITECTS. ARTISTS, designers,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE
’ v
gin ISH . „ MADE -
Perfection
rubber
Lonqclothi,
THE. WORLD S
BEST VALUE
OHiEßMitiaiiiUflafrra
Meeting:.
THE PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES LIMITED.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament.
The THIRTY-THIRD ORDINARY GENERAL
MEETING of Members will be held at 77 King
Street, on Tuesday, 19th October, 1920, at 2.15 p.m.
BUSINESS.
To receive Reports and Balance-sheet to 30th Sep-
tember, 1920.
To elect one Director in place of O. E. Friend, Esq.,
who retires, under Clause 82 of the Articles of
Association and who offers himself for re-election.
To elect one Director in place of Thomas Buckland,
Esq. (appointed to fill the vacancy caused by the
death of \V. C. Goddard, Esq.), who offers himself
for re-election.
To elect Auditors in place of Messrs. C. A. Le M.
Walker & Co. (who retire under Clause 131 of the
Articles of Association) and to fix the amount of
their remuneration.
To consider any other business of which due notice
shall have been given in accordance with the
Articles of Association.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD,
Manager.
By order of the Board, the Share Register will
be closed from 7th October to 19th October inclusive.
Permanent Trustee Building,
23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
US't
*tt
(*»
N»
The Dip you will Buy Again
Everywhere "Vallo” is rendering distinguished service.
Last season’s users are more than satisfied with the
results which this excellent Australian Dip has given
them. From all corners of the Continent come letter*
conveying appreciation and repeat orders.
'wants
Powder SHEEP DIP
is finding its way to every important station. Its never-
failing efficacy, its long-lasting protection, and its
beneficial action upon the sheep are features which have
impressed every one who has used it—and they will
impress you. Order your supplies now from your
storekeeper.
m
Look for the Trade Mark
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE . SYDNEY . BRISBANE
52
The Shoe Polish Super-Excellent.
Rostock’s Shoe Polish is free from mineral oil, and, in addition to giving a
brilliant and lasting polish, it PRESERVES the leather.
THE SION OF
A GOOD SHINE
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES, LTD., SYDNEY.
m
fill* I
Canno
CUaivj i-
R-eguU
British
*ek for ohqto IhkZ
ajK.
elf.
cure.
B «at f» r all P«n«
SPARKLETS
are back. a<?ain!
A soda fountain on a tea-tray |
The long looked for, thirst quench-
ing Sparklets have been demobilised
at last. Instead of making bulbs
during the war period, Sparklets
works made bombs. But now you
can have those splendid Sparklet
soda drinks m your home again.
Delicious drinks at a trifling cost com-
pared with the kind you buy in shops.
Why not get a Sparklet Syphon .from
your Chemist or Storkeeper right away
and forget the Summer.
Old Sparklet Syphons put right fret
Any Sparklet Syphon that
is out of order through
being stored away for so
long can be put right very
quickly and without cost
to you. A Sparklet Sy-
phon is too valuable a
thing to be lying idle.
SEND THIS COUPON
To Sparklets Ltd., 42 Pitt St., Sydney
Tlease send me Free of Charge nenv
Rubber IVashers and Pin for Sparklet
Syphon bought about 19
T(ame
cAddress
S.B. 14/10/’2O.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A r o notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submittedj and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
A ell T.: Don’t be discouraged because none
of that lot scored. There’s promise in you... Vint: Not
up A.S.S.: Such a pale little idea P.R.J.:
Trick verse is seldom good; and yours flutters in a
feeble way.... The Sorcerer: There’s very little
magic about that... .K.L.L.: Not good enough....
G. : Shameless statements in bad verse on dirty
paper D.F.L.: It’s some time since 1900. The
verses fall 769 ft. short of standard Varney: What
sort of an ear have you got? J.S.S.: The yarn
doesn’t strike us, nor convince us, nor do to us any
of the things that a yarn should do A.E.S.: The
verse has no quality and the metre has as many
creaks as grandfather’s spring-cart.. .C.Z.M.: “Allah”
may be good, but the verse is no match for him....
Gordon A.: Doesn’t even resemble verse W.T.J.:
Says nothing that could fit the subject Sinclair
H. : Wobble and bump verse about nothing much...
A.F.M.: Really a child shouldn’t die to that jigging
measure... .James M.: Paper may be scarce, but you
7ieedn’t carry copy in your trousers pocket for more
than ten years and then send in the mangled frag-
ments as if they were a great treasure No Name:
A person merely dying at a dry waterhole
doesn’t make a yarn A. A. A.: Your verse
requires some strengthening f00d.... A.P. (Mar-
rickville): The Prince is back in England;
so don’t say anything about it. Verse like that
might make him wish he had never come.... Frank
P.: It seems rather late for killing Germans. Even
W. M. Hughes is almost persuaded that the war is
over... .R.A.N.: The rules of prosody are to be
found in any work on English grammar. Have a
look at them and then try to forget they exist. Good
reading and some ear for rhythm are the only safe
guide.. .Alice T.: ft can’t scrape through J.R.T.:
Pretty and feeble. .. .A.B. (New Farm) : Get some-
thing real to say... .Arthur I).: Sorry, no improve-
ment....A.K. (Hawthorn): Doesn’t get near.,..
11.G.C.: Stiff and commonplace... .H.C. (Karioi)!
“Bush” doesn’t go F.T.8.: “River Episode” is
without much point or interest.... Beth O.: Pleasing
little verses, but with hardly enough strength to
carry them over the yawning gulf.... George S.:
Here’s the bright little thing in all its glory:—
.... F.M.H.: It has the spirit; see if you can’t improve
the workmanship Zibanitu: Neither of them
Lambo: Not well enough handled...R.W.P.; You can’-:
rhyme “come” with “home” or “love” with “prove,”
though a lot of literary sinners try to do it....
N.P. (Geelong): Not up Cent. R.: The yarn
trickles out as feebly as the tea from a battered
spout... .P.R.W.: It’s as empty as a dreamless sleep.
‘’ * -F.C.T.: Must go home... .L.F.J.: Don’t care for
‘Mary” and positively dislike “Faith” L.L.F.:
Sorry; it won't nearly do N.N. (St. Hilda) •
There’s not enough in it.. . . 8.A.A.: Thin screed in
eye-destroying pencil gladly rejected.... W.A.W.:
You have an awful idea of humor.... Bert L.: We
have seen worse first attempts... .A.A.R.M.: The
horse fell down. So did the lines. .. .K.T. (Melb.) :
Topical verse must have point—a sharp one painted
red for preference... .Jessie D.: Can’t remember as
far back as that. Present attempt fails....ALß •
N 0.... Bellerive: “Pathetic Tribute to a Dead Rat”
moves us:—
.... Harold T.: “Poverty” is not attractive in that
form, though there is something in the idea. Will
you try it again?.. .Wee Bobbie: “Native Wedding”
doesn t give the spirit of the thing... .J.E.Y.: The
thought is too weak and the verse only middling.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D. 8.: Your sketch casts a shadow over, the office...
N.McB. : They’re both stodgy, respectable people, and
w-ere still wondering why the old man wears horse-
shoes on his feet... .G.N.A.: That stout policeman
suggests Lawson Wood’s jolly old “Robert.” Your
suggestion that you do a weekly cartoon can stand
over for 25 years... .Sulli: Why are both smarties
staring at the unfortunate reader? People don’t buy
this paper to be cursed with the Evil Eye....W.A.:
You are in the preliminary stage where Art is
gloomy with too much ink G.T.: Two fashion
marionettes walking stiffly.
“Crow Eater”: I went down to Paris,
after the Armistice, and arrived hungry
after travelling all night. All I could find
on arrival at the station was an American
buffet. It was not to open for another 20
minutes, so I sat down on my kit to wait.
There were one or two Tommies about, and
presently a squad of Yanks arrived. A
little later the door of the buffet opened, and
an American lady in uniform, announcing
breakfast, said, “All American soldiers first,
B *epped ba ? k to let the Yanks
pass, but their corporal protested. “That”
he said, am t no good to me, Aussie. If
l? u * a ; gom . in fi rst, we ain’t a-goin’ in
at all. You chaps are the finest fighters
I ve ever seen, and I’ll never place myself
m front of an Aussie.” Once inside, 5 the
Tanks could not do enough for me and
would not hear of my paying. ’
I camped on the beach at Coogee one night
And the December heat was sore.
But all me sleep was calm and light
And I harked to the ocean roar.
Oh, yous that live in the far backblocks
Where it’s all heat, flies and dust
If you knew the joy of the sea and rocks
You’d hurry up to get here fust.
For on the beach you swim all day,
But you got to look out for the sharks;
They re worse than snakes up Booligal way,
And they always know their marks.
But the Coogee beach is the place to be
In December sun and heat,
It made a different man of me
And took all the corns off me feet.
Mangled by the onslaughts
Of an active cat,
Reeking in the sunlight,
Lay a slaughtered rat.
For this wretched creature
There’s neither peace nor rest;
For its depredations
Outlawed as a pest.
Life’s food it’s unable
To obtaineth fair;
Boldly for to stealeth ’twill
Venture from its lair.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabtnes-ae-
Lu. re. Staterooms with bedsteads an
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.— City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
88: Sydaey -
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, OCTOBER 20,
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screvr.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regularly to:
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, GOFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Byron Bay and the beautiful Tweed River.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TOUR FARES—Sydney-Brisbane, via
Byron Bay: Ist, £B/3/-; 2nd, £5/13/6. Sydney-
Brisbane, via Grafton: Ist, £B/3/-; 2nd, £5/10/-.
For particulars apply :
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Eank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A.; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH AVALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. . • • • 796,655 10 0
Reserve Fund .. . . . . . - 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. lidwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. AV. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Afrloa, China, the East.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. .. £1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. . • .. .. £200,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysaght, Chairman ; George
J. Sly, LLD.; Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A. ;
George F.. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 760,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,600,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,496,666
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,646,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transact* all other uaual Banking buainesa.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST. AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. TAHITI, November 11.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, December 9.
And every 28 days thereafter.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World —the Canadian Rockies is on the All-® d '
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New York can a
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara lalls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM WELLINGTON:
R.M.S. TOFUA, November 12.
R.M.S. MARAMA, December 2.
Connecting Steamers from Sydney, Nov. 4, Nov. 25.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.! WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
x\
i
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
White Star Line
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Australia to London and Liverpool via
South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
. POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
\ Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCUES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
MIDTIADES B.oo® t° ns
MARATHON 8,000 tons
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
LES
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WA
Established 1817.
Directort
- £4,765,700
- 3,875,000
- 4,765,700
£12,806,400
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MaeKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland. Esq. . _ _ .
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: A. G.* Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office— George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
351 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Buis
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
HEAD OFFICE
JM“3nstalia
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Citie* and Town* of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2802 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.Q.,
Deputy Governor July Ist, 1920 J 3 over nor
Shipping.
INTERSTATE STEAMSHIP SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting).
' . . Ti>n » \TT\ TTt r> T? H A AATTTT?
JUIV DIUODAINfi,
PORT ALMA, MAOKAY, BOWEN JETTY, TOWNS-
VILLE JETTY and CAIRNS (transhipping at
Brisbane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Glad-
stone, and at Townsville for outports).
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 6221).
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge St.
(Tel. 10684)
Howard Smith,
Ltd.', 350 George
St. (Tel. 6221).
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge St.
(Tel. 10684)
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
St. (Tel. 6221).
ailSUipa iUivuoYiiiv
tCarries Ist, 2nd and 3rd-class passengers.
{Carries Ist and 2nd-class passengers.
gCarries Ist ar.d 3rd-class passengers.
Huddart Parkei Li^
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney ami Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation. „ „ , , , T
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address:
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & 0. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritime* Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tugr and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.
Georgk hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell $ Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Offioe-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.


For
A PERFECT SHAVE
Rub a little Wawn’s Wonder-Balm into the face just
before applying the lather.
Notice how much cleaner the Razor cuts—the cool,
fresh feeling produced—the freedom from rash and.
irritation—and the velvety smoothness of the skin.
Barbers' Rash and other Skin Diseases —Pimples,
Blackheads, &c., quickly disappear as the antiseptic,
germicidal properties of Wawn's Wonder-Balm are
absorbed.
Mick Simmons and all first-class Barbers’ Saloons
regularly use Wawn’s Wonder-Balm.
Wawn’s Wonder-Balm is packed in sanitary collapsible airtight
tubes—ensuring a regularity of strength—a fresh surface being
used each time, as well as freedom from contamination of infectious
diseases.
Wawn’s Wonder-Balm cures —Cuts, Bruises, Scalds, Burns, Chil-
blains. Chapped Hands, Insect Bites, Ulcers, Eczema and all other
Skin Diseases, Nasal Catarrh, Head and Chest Colds, Sore Throats,
unequalled also for Piles, Pimples, &c.
Wawn’s Wonder -Balm
2/- Tube from Hairdressers, Chemists and Stores
or direct from V. A. WAWN, Redfern, Sydney. B 12
PROSPECTUS
OP
New South Wales Government
Loan of £3,000,000
RATE OF INTEREST 5£ PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
Price of Issue: Par. (Payable in Instalments).
Interest payable Ist June and Ist December.
A full six months interest will be payable
Ist June, 1921.
Principal repayable at par, in Sydney, Ist December, 1930.
List of applications closes Monday, 3rd January, 1921.
The Government of New South Wales offers for subscription a loan of £3,000,000,
bearing interest at the rate of 5i% per annum, and having a currency of 10 years from
Ist December, 1920, a guarantee being given that the interest will be free of both New
South Wales and Federal Income Taxes.
The loan is being raised under the authority of the Act of Parliament No. 27 of
1919, and is for the purpose of providing funds to be applied towards the completion of
the North Coast Railway, the Railways from Dubbo to Werris Creek, Glenreagh to
Dorrigo, and Canowindra to Eugowra, Hydro-Electric Schemes for South-West Riverina
and North Coast, and other Public Works and Services.
Applications for the loan should be addressed to the Colonial Treasurer, The
Treasury, Sydney.
The principal is payable in instalments, as follows, viz.:—
£25 per cent, on Wednesday, Ist December, 1920;
£25 per cent, on Monday, 3rd January, 1921;
£25 per cent, on Tuesday, Ist February, 1921;
£25 per cent, on Tuesday, Ist March, 1921;
and will be accepted free of exchange.
Applications made after Ist December, 1920, must be accompanied by interest at
5|% per annum, from that date to date of lodgment of the first instalment of £25 per
cent. Any second, third or final instalment not paid on its respective due date must
also have interest to date of payment added.
The loan may be subscribed for either in the form of Bonds or Funded Stock, at the
option of the subscriber.
Bonds or Stock may be purchased in multiples of £lO.
Subscribers for Funded Stock may have the interest on their Stock remitted to their
Bank accounts in the country or outside the State free of exchange, but the interest on
the Bonds will be payable in Sydney.
Forms of application for the loan may be obtained from the Registrar of Stock, the
Treasury, Sydney ; from the Branches of the Government Savings Bank of New South
Wales throughout the State, and also at all Branches in the State of the Bank of New
South Wales and the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limited.
Deposits and instalments will be accepted at the Treasury, Sydney, or at any of
the Branches of the Banks named.
Applications for the loan may be forwarded through members of recognised Stock
Exchanges.
JOHN T. LANG,
The Treasury, Colonial Treasurer.
Sydney, Ist October, 1920.
5
t/a.
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
I
“A marvel at the price
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre, ISin., round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights. 9/: /
Weight, about 211 b “
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3 ; other States, 2/2.)
“Simple and extra strong in construction."
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all. 37*in.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b - ■
(Postage—N.S.W., 2/-; other States, 3/8.)
60/-
BIM. The Celebrated “Maine” Rifle, designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim lire.
It can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate.
Weight about 31b. Fitted with plain V-back sight , 33/“
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/C; -other States, 2/8.)
Remarkably accurate and hard hitting.
Plenty of range and power.
825. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham-
merless Rifle, 22, 303 or 30/30 calibres, 6
shot, 20in. round tapered barrel, take down, weight Glib., muzzle velocity,
2800 ft. seconds, may be used up to 350 yards without changing from
point blank adjustments of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patched bullets. (70
grains) are used, giving a striking energy of 1206 ft. pounds; carriage /g j :
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy.”
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model 16-shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action handles 22 ,
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, j£C>/17/6
IP
New Savage N.R.A. Rifle Model 1919 is a carefully-
designed instrument of precision. It lias full military
stock, oil flnisli, pistol grip, with hands and swivel for
sling; Marine Corps type front sight, wind gauge, aperture rear sight, fiv-shot detach-
able magazine. Barrel is 25 inches long. Chambered for .22 long rifle cartridges on . .
Double-tiring pin, short hammer throw. Designed primarily for target 4? 7 fIQ/»
work. Weightabout 711 b. Freight paid I I
“A suitable weapon for the boy.”
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
40/-
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the marlcet.
838. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel -2
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight s}lb. XT O/f 1
Freight paid, jMVJ/ m
MYRROHL TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth ; hardens the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
the breath, and is specially recomtnended for pyorrhoea.
Price 1/9 tube (postage 2}£d. extra). Small sample, Iy z d M post free.
With Round Barrel
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32,-, 3S-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
Freight paid, £B/15/-
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid,
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines, 20in. 7/ (\
round barrel, weight about 5 Jib Freight paid, «*-*/**/ V/
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List Post Free to any address.
j^fcSinmonsMj
Headquarters: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


o' ' ' {' ' ' t m.'- ’' *
/ *?
Baby LESLIE O’BRIEN, aged 0 months {from a photo).
Another Bonny Rexona Baby
Is your little one a Rexona Baby too?
Enclosed you will find my baby’s photo. Leslie was 9 months old
when photographed, and he is a beautiful, healthy boy. He has been
washed with Rexona Soap since birth, and has a lovely, clear skin. 1 can
thoroughly recommend Rexona Soap to any mother for her baby.
Trusting you will like my baby’s photo,
Yours faithfully,
Mrs. J. W. O’BRIEN,
“Emohruo,” Louden Avenue, Haberfield, N.S.W.
Bath your Baby with Rexona Soap.
A healthy baby always enjoys a bath, and Rexona Soap makes your child a
healthy baby. It keeps his skin fresh and sweet, his scalp so clean and wholesome.
Any irritation of the skin which keeps baby awake or makes him cross and Peevisli.
Rexona Soap will quickly soothe. A refreshing bath with Rexona Soap, and eently
iinointinir with Rexona, will coot his skin and take away all discomforts, so that
baby and mother will sleep quietly. The pure, sweet emollients used ln R
are suited to baby’s delicate skin, and keep it in the best condition.
are contented babies, because they feel well cared for and
comfortable. Get a tablet of Rexona Soap from your
chemist or grocer. You are sure to like it. Price ty-
per tablet.
SKIN & FACIAL SOAP
f
i§H
MARSHALL
HALL
m i
es
To owners of big power-plants, and to those interested in
mining machinery, textile machinery, flour mills, sawmills and
iHi.l4l.Lig liiaLilUlCiJ, LCAUIC , noui
crushing-plants, the Marshall proposition will appeal. Low
fuel consumption is an outstanding feature —this means economy
in running costs.
Marshall Locomobiles use wood, coal or any combustible fuel.
High pressure, superheated steam.
50 to 350 H.P.
Get particulars.
British-Australian
ENGINEERING Co. Ltd.,
National Mutual Buildings,
Cr. Queen and Collins Streets, MELBOURNE.
Box 1303 G.P.0., Melbourne. ’Phorie 4031 Central.
N.S.W. Agents: Austral Engineering Co. Ltd., Sydney.
S.A. Agents: Parsons & Robertson, Adelaide.
Queensland Agents: General Machinery & Electrical Co.“ Brisbane.
usa
White Night.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ALL day the restless cuckoos fluted
In soft, up-climbing semi-tones,
Sweet challenges defied, disputed,
From swaying boughs, from leaf> thionis.
From paths in the high air’s dominions,
Cool corridors of azure breeze,
Swept by imperious rival pinions,
Floated their plaintive ecstasies.
And sunset heard them yet aspiring,
Dark heard their song from bough to bough,
Musical, mournful, glad, untiring,
Scale the mid peak of night, and now
It is mad full moon, it is mad September,
And oh, but the wattle boughs are gay
With spendthrift blossom and bursting Iruds!
But drowned in the midnight's crystal floods
All exuberant glories golden
Are merged in dream-hues unbeholden,
Silver on silver, and grey under greyj
And to the white-fire moon of September
The ghost-birds sing in a ghostly day.
Song of the moonshine, song of September,
Throbbing song from the heart of night,
Song of the soft impetuous air,
Frenzy of Spring is everywhere,
Raining down from the highest branches
Bright, bewildering avalanches
Of honey fragrance, of broken light,
While wattle ' and moon for the pitch
September ,
Write wild rhymes round the cuckoos
flight.
Oh. cease your perfect notes of sorrow,
Slow-threaded pearls strung far and nigh .
Grey flitters ’twixt the dusk and morrow,
Had you not all the day to cry ?
Now that these chequered moonlights veil you
I know you, callers from the trees!
I hear —unwillingly I bail you,
Not birds, but winghd Memories.
Peace and forgetfulness had bound me
Now must I wake to tight with Spring
When wattles flood their richness round me
And all night long the cuckoos sing !
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.
The Melbourne Express.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SHE was a quiet, rather pathetic little
thing—a State-school teacher, she told
me, going to Sydney to spend the
Show Week holiday with her grandmother.
Carrying her suitcase from train to train at
Albury, I hoped vaguely to find a corner-
seat for her and, incidentally, for me. In
the carriage there was for the moment only
the Man of God and his conspicuous collar.
That surely was good enough. I was sorry
and rather scared when the returned man,
tightish, got in with the two fat actresses.
The pupjl-teacher shrank obviously, and
crossed over to sit beside me, her attitude
suggesting that she might need but did not
desire my protection. The returned man’s
party didn’t notice the Man of God at first,
but it attended to that later. A man who
had made overdone farewells with a tall
woman on the platform pulled the door open,
glared at each of us and sat down opposite
me. When on his heels a prizefighter, cab-
bage-eared, huge and toothless, came in with
his trainer and a bulging, tenderly-guarded
bag, I was resigned rather than scared or
sorry.
I looked round the full compartment and
thought of the long run to Sydney ; it might
be interesting.
The man who overdid his farewells began
it. He started speaking in a mumbling
monotone, looking sleepily at the pupil-
teacher. To my .surprise and admiration she
listened in complete composure. Presently
I Caught a sentence: “I always thought of
her as a flower.”
“Of whom?” she replied. “Of the lady
at Albury ?”
“Good God, no ! Of my wife,” he said so
emphatically that I butted in.
“How long is it since you were in Syd-
ney?” I asked the girl.
“Oh, years. I haven’t seen grandma since
mum and dad died, except one Christmas long
ago. The journey was so expensive, and
I had to send grannie all that I could —
which wasn’t much,” she added, staring
thoughtfully out of the window. My mental
picture of the quiet girl steadily putting
away her sixpences and shillings for grannie
was interrupted by the returned man’s joy-
ous discovery of the Roman collar.
“A parson!” he said heartily. “Well,
I’m” .
“ ’Sh, George!” the lighter actress said.
“You go to sleep; you’ve had one too many.
Excuse him, won’t you?” to the Man of
God, aci-oss her heavy-weight partner’s
giggle.
“Oh. certainly, certainly.” The Roman
collar floundered in the waters of despair.
The train was full; besides, lie must stand
his ground—the cloth, etc. He receded into
badly-handled, heavy unconsciousness. I
caught the good-bye expert’s eye on me.
“I remember the last time I was in Syd-
ney,” he said, “and an extraordinary opera-
tion Twiller Matthews did”....
“Never seen the man who could touch ’im
yet”. . . .The trainer clutched the bag on his
knees. I was afraid to look at the school-
teacher ; things were going to be very mixed.
The actresses were playing a sort of
acrobatic cross-chat with the object of catch-
ing the Man of God on the hop and making
him laugh. They used very underhand
means to this end —very free and shockingly
easy means, in fact; the returned man would
be justified in anything drastic that he said
or did. The parson’s stony face concentrated
on New South Wales was a monument to
his collar, but it and the cross-chat were
ruining my nerves. Also I laughed—l
couldn’t help it. I told the teacher that one’s
long-distance companions were always a lot-
tery, and she agreed tranquilly without a
trace of gush or starch. Possibly her sim-
plicity was proof against a good deal of the
compartment; whatever it was it gave me a
lesson in good manners.
“. . . .And then eloped with my locum and
took both children with her. And I still
call her a flower when I think of her. But
Twiller Matthews is a very remarkable man.
The operation I referred to just now was
only one of a series of surgical triumphs. I
remember another occasion”.... The man
opposite was still deep in his intermittent
soliloquy, occasional lines floating unheeded
into the all-round talk. The returned man
groaned and snored, the fat girls’ pungent
dialogue rose to frantic screams and fell
to chuckles, and the Man of God stared at
nothing as if his collar and his cloth and
his soul depended on it. The prize-fighter
and his trainer made an interesting inter-
lude by retiring to the corridor with their
precious bag, and counting and sharing the
jingling contents. I turned to the teacher
to find her eyes, tired and distressed, looking
into my face —curious eyes, one brown and
the other grey, but clear and placid, most
restful in that crowd.
“Yesterday was pay day,” she said simply,
“and I’ve got all grannie’s money as well;
but I shouldn’t like to carry that much
about me.”
I glanced at the bag and Bill’s fist hiding
the handles. “I think it’s safe enough with
Bill and his friend.” '
She smiled as her eyes half-closed; I
hoped hard that she would go to sleep—this
hiatus wasn’t going to last long. The man
opposite started on his seventh operation;
operations and embarrassing, unhappy
domestic details were the only things that
interested him. I felt a dozing relaxation
of the figure beside me, and gave thanks.
The doctor grew slightly more animated.
“And even then my socks always wanted
darning. But she’s a wonderful woman. I’m
afraid I’m going to make her very unhappy
by taking the children, but I must do it —
he glared at me.as if I were the locum —
“the whole thing was over the odds....in-
sufferable situation in my own house”....
Bill looked up as the doctor’s voice rose,
and then, I expect, wished he hadn’t; there-
after the doctor addressed all his remarks,
intimate and otherwise, to the pugilist. The
returned man’s snore concentrated to a
despairing yelp as he fell against the heavy-
weight girl, and started the cross-chat again
on a note of violent, personal abuse. But
the lighter girl’s back-answers had lost their
ginger; Bill’s bag had “done her in. ’ . Her
eyes were fixed greasily on it; long visions
of silk stockings and four pairs of. ‘good
shoes, three new hats and a dressing-case
obsessed her. Bill, watching the doctor like
a fascinated baby, was licking his lips ner-
vously and fumbling with the handles of his
l3d T. . .“Twiller Matthews looked up at the
nurse and said, ‘Wait a moment.’ And we
saw the apparently firm and solid body on
the table fall instantly into a liquid putre-
faction, a 5”....
“Look out!” the parson said sharply as
Bill’s bag rolled to the floor and his lb
stone sagged peacefully to the teacher s lap.
Bill had fainted —he was gone to the world,
like a schoolgirl on prize day. His trainer
was up at once, standing on the returned
man’s ankle to prop Bill up and smack his
huge, grey face. The returned man broke
out of his sleep into splendid blasphemy, cut
short by the parson’s swift demand for
brandy. He had no brandy, but he gave
up a flask of whisky in silence, his red
eyes on the parson’s hard, impatient face.
The trainer poured the whisky between Bill s
lips, impeded by the doctor taking off his
coat, presumably to operate. My hands were
full trying to prevent the practically-crushed
teacher from following Bill; I could have
thrown the doctor out of the window, lhe
heavyweight gave me a bottle of smelling-
salts as Bill sighed deeply and came back to
us. The trainer’s urgent job being done, lie
was free to speak to the doctor sitting in
offended dignity. This he did so passionately
and fluently that the parson and I interrupted
together—Bill wasn’t the only person m the
world, or even in the compartment, lhe
returned man glared semi-consciously at the
turmoil and at his actresses hanging over the
teacher; and the train slowed up and ran
into Goulburn. Here Bill, morosely
ashamed of himself, left us in silence. Ins
trainer thanking the Man of God and drop-
ping a farewell opinion on the head ot the
indifferent, absent-minded doctor. I was
glad they had gone, but they wouldn t have
been my selection of absentees; the fat girls
party disappeared for a drink, and I feared
the screaming dialogue when they came. back.
To my surprise the parson sat firmly in his
seat; perhaps we were some penance lie had
imposed on himself —he couldn’t have liked
us. Some railway official came down the
corridor with a policeman, looking carefully
in each compartment. At our door they
glanced casually at the parson and me, and
looked long and searchingly at the doctor.
Presently the policeman nodded.
“Going through, doctor?”
The doctor’s startled face was childishly
uncertain as he lifted it to reply. I saw
then what I had thought was eccentricity
or perhaps some drug habit.
“Yes. I’m going through for my children.
“Better come out and have a yarn with
me while the train’s in the station. I’ll see
you don’t miss it.”
The doctor’s voice was an everlasting
salute to authority as he got up and went
out drearily with the constable.
“All right. I don’t mind.”
The official volunteered to the parson:
“Escaped from a private asylum at Albury
on Tuesday. They ’phoned a description
down the line.”
So he left us too; and that was a good
thing. The fat girls and their man came back
in a bad temper, held a spasmodic commen-
tary on 'each other for half an hour, and fell
gradually into unattractive sleep. The
teacher, recovered from her shock, was look-
ing out into the night deep in thought
Grannie, no doubt, and the chances of train-
travel. The parson pulled the shade over the
light and his cap over his eyes; and I sat,
remembering the doctor’s face, wondering
how Bill would shape for his next gate, and
hoping I could sleep soon. The teacher sub-
sided gently against my shoulder, roused her-
(Continued on next page.)


I
M
r
e
fie
x
II
i
r
Dm
i
B>
lm 7
&y
&
illllllllliiiiiiHinil>»»i»>
|r MAKE ZAM-BUK A DAILY NEED
ACCIDENTS are always happening in the kitchen, in the
workshop, in the garden, at the children’s play, and
during every kind of work or athletic pursuit.
Directlv Zam-Buk is applied to a wound or sore it alleviates the
pain or inflammation, reduces any swelling and prevents the place
“taking bad ways.” Not only is Zam-Buk a highly concentrated
and reliable healing agent—it also has splendid antiseptic
properties.
In a natural way, belonging to the natural extracts
from which it il manufactured, Zam-Buk stops the
growth of harmful microbes that account for the
festering of a neglected or wrongly-treated sore;
it kills or nullifies all dangerous influence at
once, and causes the tissues, which it has
first made clean in a medical sense, to
knit together once more, until all trace
of the sore or injury has gone.
Zam-Buk carries on its anti-
septichealing without hindrance,
because of the balanced and re-
fined character of the balm;
and the work is not impeded
by the presence of any
of the coarse animal
fats that are to be
found in other
salves. Zam-
Buk is the
ideal
dealer.
/CHILD’S
SCALDS
Healed.
Mrs. D. Kawkes, of 35 Ware Street, Hobart,
/ Tas.. writes: “A kettle of very hot water was
spilled over my little son’s right leg, scalding
>/ him terribly. The sores festered, and he suffered
fearful pain. Knowing that Zam-Buk is most suc-
s' cessful for burns, we procured some of the balm and
/ dressed his injuries. He experienced relief almost immedi-
jr ately Zam-Buk was applied, for it proved most soothing to the
S' raw surfaces of seared flesh when the blisters broke. Although
a bad case, the terrible wounds w r ere completely healed by Zam-Buk.
I have also used Zam-Buk with great success for other injuries.”
The Chemist said: “Use Zam-Buk."
s' A striking example of Zam-Buk’s indispensability in the home is given by Mrs. R. Ryan, of 42
s' Albany Street, Crow’s Nest, North Sydney, who says.—“ Some time ago my little girl Doris had a fall
S' and cut her knee. The sore steadily grew worse, and the inflammation spread, so I went to tne chemist
for some ointment, and he advised me to try Zam-Buk. I purchased a pot of Zam-Buk, and after each
dressing the sore grew visibly better, and in a few days it was perfectly healed.”
Rubbing Zam-Buk in is the surest way to rub pain out. It is
excellent for stiff neck, cold pains in limbs, joists, or back; chapped
hands, chilblains, eczema, piles, ulcers, festering cuts, bruises, and
injured, diseased conditions of the skin. Price 1/6, or 3/6 family pot,
from all chemists and stores.
REFUSE
WORTHLESS
SUBSTITUTES.
B
ml
self with a start and apologised, smiling
diffidently in the half-dark as she opened her
bag. Suddenly she snapped the fastenings
to and looked up at me.
“It’s all goneshe whispered, her eyes
tragic.
“What is?”
“My purse and every penny of my money!”
I stood up and pulled the shade off 'the
light. “Look carefully in your bag,” I said,
searching the floor and under the seat, and
waking the parson in my efforts.
“What’s wrong?” he asked. I told him,
and he looked under his seat and on the floor,
waking the returned man and the fatter girl.
The general anger at his end disappeared in
the general search at both ends, which was
fruitless. The purse was gone. I sat down
and looked hopelessly at the teacher.
“My luck’s out.” She smiled bravely
through the tears on her eyelashes. One fell
to her hand. The girl had really had enough
since we left Albury. All told, I had found her
about the unluckiest seat in the most dis-
reputable compartment in the train. I
slipped two £1 notes under her folded hands.
“For Grannie,” I said to cover my own
confusion.
"Oh no, I couldn’t!” She pushed the notes
back to me passionately before the whole
sympathetic carriage. “Really nothing to
do with you. My luck’s out; that’s all.”
“But it’s my fault you’re in this compart-
ment. That makes it my fault that”
“No, it doesn’t. You’re not responsible
for Bill pretending to faint on my bag just
as we were running into his station —and he
seemed such a nice man. Oh, what a dread-
ful thing!”
Bill’s mysterious jingling bag flashed into
my mind. The parson came over as I started
to speak, and sat opposite the weeping
teacher; he had a note folded in his hand.
“Your friend has had a very trying
journey,” he said to me, “and—er in
fact, couldn’t I join in the.... It would
be something for”
The returned man came suddenly to life
again: “Come on, you girls; it's a round
robin. Cough up !” and he held out his hat
to the actresses.
“Poor little thing!” The heavyweight
struggled with her enormous handbag, and
gave him a note. She wanted to add some
silver, but he wouldn’t take silver. The
lighter gild “coughing up” to his approval,
he put his own in, and brought the hat to
me.
“There you are, brother,” he said, “there’s
our share.”
I turned to the girl. “We’re all in it now.
Won’t you take it—for Grannie?”
She looked shyly at each of us in turn,
and gave in. Gathering up the money she
put it in her bag. “Thank you all so much.
I’ll tell Grannie about it and”
“That’s all right,” the returned man’s
hearty note cut in, “now you comedy-queens
can go to sleep again—an’ so can I,” and he
put the shade over the light as if he meant it.
I felt the girl’s tired head drooping again
to my shoulder after the Campbelltown stop,
and her gradual subsidence to my chest. I
didn’t disturb her, despite my damnable dis-
comfort : the sleep must have been a blessed
relief. The world tore by in the roaring
darkness while I held myself rigid and
cramped, but glad that the compartment had
in some measure paid for its disreputable-
ness. We had compensated to our ability,
anyway.
As we slowed up outside Granville she
woke suddenly. “What’s this?” .she said.
“Granville. Feel better now?”
“Granville! Oh, iny goodness—l get out
here. Where’s my suitcase?” She stood up
quickly and waited, nervous and impatient,
while 1 got her case down. The train
stopped, and she took the case from me,
glanced up, said “Thank you very much;
, good-bye,” and hurried down the platform
out of sight before I realised that she had
gone. A word or two wouldn’t have hurt
her. Still, she’d had a pig of a time; her
nerves must have gone to pieces. But —oh,
well, let it go. Ships that pass....
Under the clock at the Central Station I
found McDowell, the thinnest and tallest
detective in the Force. Easily recognisable
at 200 yards, his keeping his job was one
of the Force’s jokes.
“Hullo!” he said. “Been on a trip?”
I gave him a hurried sketch of my journey,
more for the sake of mentioning Bill and
his bag than from any desire for conversa-
tion. He listened gloomily—“ Hundreds of
people bring me things like this,” I could
hear him thinking. His face changed sud-
denly into interest.
“One brown and one grey? An’ a simple
lassie, saft and nairrvous?”
“Yes,” I said, surprised at the sudden in-
terruption. “Why. Mac?”
“Why?" His face was bitter Glasgow
scorn embodied. “Mon. what did ye—here,
can ye tell me the time?”
I looked feebly up at the clock.
“Nay, oot o’ yer pocket, mon.”
The watch-end of my chain was hanging
loose from my waistcoat, and my watch was
gone.
HILARY LOFTING.
Water! Water!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE lineman had a week-old cold when
he left the station at noon on his
periodical inspection. He was feel-
ing midway between well and ill. But to
have deferred the trip meant having to ex-
plain to Central Office, and explanations
where Routine sternly keeps its name holy
are never an over-and-done-with way out of
a thing. Better a wretched trip than a
file of regulation-bound correspondence!
Besides, the glorious air of the bush might
act as a tonic and fix him up.
That night, however, crouching in his over-
coat over the camp-fire, he regretted his opti-
mism. His back would not get warm, his
head was heavy ; he felt “anyhow.” Above
him myriads of stars twinkled wistfully for
his appreciation of their number ana beauty;
all around him the bush was trying with its
insect singers to draw his attention to the
fact that the darkness had changed it all to a
suggestive, intangible presence, something
vast, soft and wonderful—majesty and mys-
tery that the dawn would dissolve into scrub
and trees again! Upon all other occasions
he had spent hours in drinking in the night-
time glory, but to-night—!
* * * *
Nine o’clock next morning. He has not
improved, still he decides to go on.
Noon once more. He is on the plains, 35
miles from the nearest house and 40 from
his station. He had not bothered “speak-
ing” that morning—had not felt like drag-
ging the cut-in telephone up the ladder.
Better do so now—damn regulations! How
cruel they can be!
Unsteadily he sets the ladder against a
pole. A trick of the wind is producing a
vibrant hum in the pole. Queer—his head
is humming too !
For some reason, he finds, he is talking
to himself. He tries to pull himself
together, but becomes aware that he is
laughing. But what; at he does not know.
Noon again, two days later. The
tethered, forsaken horses, with upright,
twitching ears, send a whistle of appeal
across the plain to a motor-car containing
four men;
The car glides up and stops. The men
emerge without a word to one another.
These men have keen, busy eyes. They
scan the ground for a story, and, because
the story is always grim or they would not
be there, haste takes the place of speech.
One is a trooper, one a white tracker; the
others are two aboriginals. The bushman
claims equal prowess with the blacks, but
big tests would prove that those who are
trackers by blood and instinct must be the
greater craftsmen.
They have the whole situation at a glance:
a tumbled ladder, a broken telephone, the
harnessed horses in hoof-stamped holes. A
capable hand had fastened them to the tele-
graph-pole. Ropes are strong, and when
buslimen tie knots the animals stay—even
unto death.
There was swift ministry to the horses,
and then the party started.
The tracks led with the wires for about
half a mile, but suddenly diverged at almost
right angles. The class of country soon
altered; thickly-timbered hillocks took the
place of plain, varied by bare patches of
windswept rock where a giant might have
stridden in iron boots and left barely suffi-
cient tracks for even a black to discern.
The lineman was at this point obviously
delirious. It was read that he had wandered
aimlessly. Frequently his tracks emerged
from theSe rocky outcrops at totally unex-
pected points. This meant delay, but it
would make no difference to the splendid
hounds who were intending his deliverance:
they were certain to find him. But every
moment was vital, and the anxiety of the
trooper and the white tracker increased as
the afternoon waned.
Suddenly the three trackers halted. They
showed the trooper a spot where their man
had lain down and slent a while. The sleep
evidently had restored some degree of rea-
son to the decrepit brain. He was now
moving in a fairly direct line. It was pro-
bable that he had used the stars, for the
signs showed that this part of the wander-
mg had been done at night But by and bve
the line began to waver—the brain had
clouded again. It was manifest that the
subtle instinct of self-preservation had whis-
pered his feet on.
Scrub now with a variety of trees. The
blacks stopped.
“What, Charlie?” queried the trooper of
one °f them.
The aboriginal pointed to three trees that
tad been tried with a tomahawk, which all
linemen carry in their belts when line-
examining. ‘ ; ‘Him-pfella lookum water-
mallee. Tryum wroug tree—chopum white-
mallee.”
The trooper, knowing his bush species,
was aware of that wonder of Nature in these
parts, a tree that stores in its trunk, close
to the ground, from a gill to a quart of
beautiful water. It is water-mallee, and.
though it is distinct from white-mallee in
respect to this strange storage, it and its
brother are so alike to the eye that, outside
aboriginals, few can determine the difference.
a ? ks , are guided by the foliage, and can
distinguish the right mallee at a distance;
then, blacks are uncanny when it comes
to a Point of vision.
“Knows about these mallee-trees all right,”
commented the trooper.
Charlie tapped two adjacent trees. “Water-
ma ~ this-pfella. boss,” he remarked
casually, and the irony of it stirred the
trooper to the core.
. Y e looked at the dropping sun. “How long
undum, Charlie?” he questioned,
“Tellum byumby. boss.”
lllay took II P the trail, and the blacks,
knowin S now that a thirst-plagued, weaken-
n)£ uian had floundered onwards, made the
l Ja £f: ,aat *,
Charlies mate muttered something, and
Charlie said over his shoulder to the trooper:
Catchum this-one two hour!”
~ lae trackers at times broke into a run.
-^? ey were close up on their object now, and
minutes were precious if he were saveable.
P resen tly the white tracker shook his
iead \ “Falling every dozen yards or so,”
heaaid ’ , , , , , /
, Broken twigs and crushed saltbush told
the eloquently of sheer doggedness be-
n<‘a!,‘ t ' le delirium.
lhere Y a f. no horizon or open view and
. circling now. The party might be
Withm mere yards of him, might even pass
um Wlta m yards, and so have to run his
t racks hack before he was found. Found
he would be ; but how?
The question was answered at sunset. He
aad fallen against a tree and being unable
tals time to regain his feet had thrown his
arias mound the trunk,
Bead, yes—a matter of an hour or so.
the last he had pressed his face to the
ground. This was to. shield his eyes from
tke crows, that crowning horror of death in
the bush.
was . the blacks who first looked at his
surroundings.
Boss, said Charlie to the trooper, “him
poor-pfella.” He indicated the tree that the
dead man cuddled. “Water-mallee, boss.”
VULTURE.


WESTIN CHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherstou Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—9B Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
HORLICK'5 N
MALTED KOJLK,
i' a pure rich milk lombined
with the extract of malted grain}
—very digestible and nutritious.
Prepared in a moment. Delicious
to the taste.
Sample will be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps
to Hutchinson & Go., Ltd.,
26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney/ N.S.W.
**ra
’“aKMW-
Spaas
sk
Ho
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Pav i n g Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C. *
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68$ PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting .London
should read the British Australasian,
Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail aud cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W. 0.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
ifcr-
is NEW-
(T I
When you
are nervous or
tired, get this re-
freshment from any
storekeeper or confectioner
3d. per packet
Fine for the breath
after smoking.
Whether you work
or Play, WRIGLEV'S
is a friend indeed!
Send 3d. for trial packet
to WRIGLEY'S
Box 2376, G.P,a
Sydney
m
Made to
i A*22
ALL THE TIME
ALL THE YEAR ROUND
ALL THE WORLD OVER
11
1
>A/V7J
0
2
'
9
3
•>c
8
4
?v
tv
5
o£
o2nr
7
3*2
6
SOMEONE
IS TAKING
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIK CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold, a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
&, GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
“Single' ' " ' *
Insist on '
deton’s "—refuse all substitutes.
BRAIN WAVES
If you want to prosper in life —to think out
schemes which will bring success, you musi
have a clear head and a brain free from dullness
and fatigife. HeSdache, Las
situde or Indigestion must
not come to distract your
mind. Avoid Head-
aches, Dizziness, In-
digestion, Bilious-
ness and that “tired
feeling ” by taking
Carter’s Little
Liver Pills, the
Great Liver Invig-
orator. Thousands
have attained success by their timely help.
Just try one after meals. Safe for children.
Small Pill—Small Dose— Small Prlco.
GENUINE must
bear signature
CARTER'S
ITTLE
IVER
Pi LIS
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
22 Cal. Rifles
and Cartridges
TWENTY-TWO calibre rifles are u-ore universally used than any
other- It is with this calibre that every boy learns to shoot —the
adult sportsman uses it for target and field shooting—it is the arm
of small bore rifle clubs the world over.
Demin\
fC UMC
for Shooting Right]
Special descriptive booklet, showing various repeating and single shot models,
together with much interesting information on ,
shooting, will be sent you, post free, upon reQuest.
VAWa i MV
MINGTON
JMC
ARMS UMC COMP
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative


NCR
LEATHER
LTI
It Spells Economy in Big Letters
for any machinery owner who instals it. Man-
grovite Leather or Raw Hide Belting is
strong, flexible and reliable, being made from
faultless hides, carefully selected and tanned
for belting purposes. Tliat is why it gives
such efficient service even under the most
severe conditions. Let us instal it for you,
and test i; yourself.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowioi, Managing Director),
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney
W. Australia: Cibbe, Bright & Co., Fremantle
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
Viotoria and Tasmania: Wm. Cresby & Co.,
Melbourne. /
REAL, PROFIT PAYERS.
Profits are the result of efficiency. Greater efficiency in saws
means quicker work and bigger profits.
“An Eagle on a Globe” Circular Saws
are most efficient. Made with 15 styles of teeth, from Double
Extra Crucible Steel. • They cut longer without sharpening, thus
adding "materially to time saved.
In standard gauges and holes, all sizes from 4in. diameter.
Prompt attention assured to inquiries addressed to
Desk “A.”
THE EAGLE 8 GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent St., SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe St, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Rd., Kalgroorlle
Cliff St., Frepiantle.
John Reid & Nephews,
Brisbane
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Paul & Cray Ltd., Newcastle.
' , olEot4*°
m
Chemicals?
As Agents for the United Alkali Co., Ltd.,
England, we quote the lowest direct indent
prices, and from stock, for (bulk only) :
Soda Ash, Silicate of Soda, Bicarbonate
of Soda, Caustic Soda (lump, powdered
and tinned), Chloride of lime (built or
tins), Chloride of Magnesium, Chlorine
of Ammonium, Muriate of Ammonia,
Chloride of Calcium, Sulphide of
Sodium, etc. ,
AliSO—Naphthaline, Dextrine, Carbolic
Acid, Powdered and Lump Alum,
Borax, Bichromate of Soda, Hyposul-
phite of Soda, French Chalk, etc.
Aniline Dyes. Hematine, Fustic. etc.
Whale, Cod and Herring Oils.
James Hardie & Coy. Ltd.
Sydney. Melbourne. Adelaide.
P.O. Box 2536. P,O. Box 2502. P,O. Box 428.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service. ,
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked
SINCLAIR LTD mm Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
d at Melbourne, Brisbane,
rth; and Auckland, N.Z-
Sv: -
A Price List.
The Beautiful Boyce Moto-Meter.
The tell-tale that informs you if your
engine is overheating.
Prices: 28/9, 3?/-, 48/-, 67/6.
“Sphinx” Spark Plugs, for all Engines.
One of the best and most reliable.
4/9 and 5/9 each.
“Oleo” Spark Plugs,
manufactured and designed by Masters
of Ignition. 5/-, 7/3, 7/6 each.
SWANS LIMITED,
:
Tyre Pumps, all descriptions, Satisfaction
Guaranteed.
17/6, 18/-, 20/-, 30/-, 37/6 each.
British Magnetos. None better made in
any country either pr rvious or during
the war.
When ordering state direction of
Rotation.
Singles £8 each. Twins, various degrees,
£9/15/- each. 4-Cylinder, £l9.
«
Nickelled Number Frames, 10/6 each.
304 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
The House for Motor Engineers’ Supplies.
3
*
7"
L.A. Rowboat Motors
'MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder s 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 234 inches;
Weight 621 b.
K light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, oanoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Kails, £32/10/-
Correspondence invited.
D. § W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy,
High - Pressure Brasswork
to AH Australian Water Board Standards
Ali o Guaranteed, Factory Tested, Medium Lines.
PUMPS-
Alderdice Limited,
Warrnambool, VICTORIA.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office: — AGENTS—
TUROR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD., ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Cnlwulla Chambers, ,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY. Adelaide Brisbane Perth
lete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Schools of Arts, etc.
«?*■•*** r;
It
SF
m.
Runs on
Kerosene
Safe.
[Reliable
One Gallon of Kerosene
will light &2 Lamps for 4 l / 2 hours.
•ICOLAKS FROM SOLE AGENTS— •
N.S.W. & Victoria: WAR BURTON, FRANKI LTD.,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street, Melbo
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
the Construction of this
WE illustrate the most economical type of wheelbarrow
for hard service in Mines, Mills, Furnaces,.Smelters,
Railways, Gas Works, etc. —it is indestructible.
Stamped from one piece of first-quality steel and beaded
round the edge. Tubular frame passes right around, so
protecting the wheel and acting as a guide for forward
dumping.
Note the double-bend frame—an unusual feature that takes the load off the operator
and makes the wheelbarrow do the work.
Price is right. Call and inspect or send your inquiry to
CO.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street# Sydney, ms 7.
