

ffl
©
m
m
A
BS
<Sv-
'V''
V
-
m
■
D 0 f
ft CO
BBfiO
unmiiJiiiiiiiiimitiih
m
ii
180
SOP
rope?
PUB
\L
'J,
' '
masm
633
H
4 "
ijiMiilMliiiiiiii;
i<H
i it
'!
m
%
&
I
%
zz
%
Y A
‘lettyjatsiiex. ■■'■■>. 'k
, y £. wsm>. % \
$, % % \
SSV-
..m \ o. ...\
4. 70A -
€ m
52JW/
i* i.
&\ \
o:
%
rfjjJ mt(*
V \
00
X
:
'
«NSSS
.:-
s' S
Sfr'
ssp-
---^
#
*« uiutyj-Jt/i*^, irfMAujt s fuj
PROGRESS
Since its inception the Australian General Electric Company has made
great progress and kept in line with the enormous developments in
electrical science and industry in the past 20 years.
The first electric tramway, consisting of
two cars running between Randwick and
Bondi Junction, was equipped by this
company in 1890- The latest contract was
for the complete electrical .equipment of
the Victorian Suburban Railway service,
which is now operating electrically.
During this period the Company has
electrically equipped many important
industrial, mining, and lighting installa-
tions in Australia, and many homes with
domestic appliances.
The Company is prepared to supply
EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL, from
the complete steam and electrical equip-
ment of a battleship, or a 50,000 horse-
power steam turbine, down to a Vi candle-
power electric lamp
fSmmm
;nt worth Avenue
SYDNEY
Cr of Queen 'D Little Collins sts
A'IELBOURME
ADELAIDE, S. A. -Charles Atkins Si Co. Ltd.,BB-90 Currie
St BRISBANE, Q.-The Engineering Supply Co of Aus-
tralia Ltd. (E.S.C.A), Corner Edward arid Charlotte Streets.
TASMAN LA—Oliver flt Ohm, Hobart and Launceston.
ACE NTS
PERTH, W. A.—Charles Atkins & Co (W.A.) Ltd.,
"Mazda House,” 894 Hay Street NEW ZEALAND—
The National Electrical and. Engineering Co. Ltd., Auck-
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2081.
Thursday, January 1, 1920.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


This Week’s Toilet Hints
INTERESTING SELECTIONS FROM THE WORLD’S SMARTEST BEAUTY
ARTICLES—SIMPLE RECIPES MOST EFFECTIVE.
HOW TO DISCARD AN UNSIGHTLY
COMPLEXION.
“Toilet Club Notes.”
How many women exclaim as they behold
tneir ugly complexion in the mirror, “If I
could only tear off this old skin!” And, do
you know, it is now possible to do*that very
thing? Not to actually remove the entire
skin all of a sudden; that would be too
heroic a method and painful, too, I imagine.
1 he worn-out cuticle comes off in such tiny
particles, and so gradually—requiring about
ten days to complete the transformation—it
doesn t hurt a bit. Day by day the beautiful
complexion underneath comes forth. Mar-
vellous ! No matter how muddy, rough,
blotchy or aged your complexion, you can
surely discard it by this simple process.
Just get some ordinary mercolised wax at
your chemist’s, apply nightly like cold cream,
washing it off in the mornings.
WHY HAVE GREY HAIR
When a simple, old-fashioned and harmless
recipe will correct it ?
Few people know that grey hair is not a
necessary feature of age—that it can be
avoided without resorting to hair dyes. A
very old home-made remedy will turn the
hair back to a natural color in a few days,
it is only necessary to get from the chemist
two ounces of concentrate of tammalite and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum. Apply
this simple lotion to the hair for a few nights
with a small sponge and you will soon have
the. pleasure of seeing the greyness disappear.
Ihis recipe is perfectly harmless, is neither
sticky nor greasy, and has given perfect
satisfaction for many generations to those in
possession of the secret.
A STRANGE SHAMPOO.
“Cosy Corner Chats.”
„ + I was much interested to learn
trom this young woman with the beautiful
glossy hair that she never washes it with
soap or artificial shampoo powders. Instead
she makes her own shampoo by dissolving^!
teaspoonful of stallax granules in a cup o;
hot water. “I brake my chemist get the
stallax for me,” said she. “It comes only ii
Jib. sealed packages, enough to make ui
twenty-live or thirty individual shampoos,
and it smells so good I could almost eat it.”
Certainly this little lady’s hair did look
wonderful even if she has strange ideas of a
shampoo. I am tempted to try the plan
myself.
BLACKHEADS INSTANTLY GO.
The new .'sparkling face bath treatment gives
instant relief.
A very simple, harmless and pleasant pro-
cess is now used to remove blackheads and
correct greasiness and large pores in the skin.
You have only to drop a tablet of stymui,
obtained from the chemist, into a glass of
hot water and bathe the face with the liquid
after the effervescence has subsided. The
blackheads will then come right off on the
towel. The enlarged pores immediately con-
tract to normal and tlie greasiness disappears,
leaving the skin smooth, soft and cool and
free from blemish. But to make sure that'
this desirable result is permanent, it is
advisable to repeat the treatment several
times at intervals of say about four or five
days.
IS POWDER NECESSARY?
“Practical Suggestions.”
1 say emphatically, No! There is a simple
lotion which ean be easily and cheaply made
at home, and it is at the same time both
effective and beneficial to the complexion*
Cleminite is a splendid substitute for face
powder, which is. at the bottom of many
complexion troubles. Get about an ounce
from the chemist, and dissolve in four table-
spoonfuls of water. The result is a fine clear
liquid, which instantly gives the face, neck
or arms that peach-like bloom of perfect
health. There is nothing to equal it for
greasy skins, and the result lasts all day
long under the most trying conditions.
KSSJWS
©Si
mk
A Year free from
Smoke Troubles.
Start to-day with a GBD—let the
coming years be one long period
of smoke-joy.
The GBD gives a sweet, coo!
smoke-—it “draws” well from the
first trial—needs no breaking-in.
Let your constant companion in
1920 be a
®>
THE. PERFECT PIPE.
' *
Many- popular shapes.
Obtainable everywhere.
sArtCu/woroo* health
OrJ.CoIHs Brogue’s
CWorodyM
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOIi
ughs, Co/ds, Asthma,
anil in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHAKM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery ,
0 / all Chemists. Prices in England,'l/S, $/-, SJ-.
Made in England.
“DEATH TO FLIES.”
HOUSE FLIES ARE DISEASE CARRIERS.
In response to inquiries we have forwarded a large auaibfer of free dimples of
“MllStdic,” and have received quite a number of unasked-for letters testifying to the
efficacy of "Mustdie,” Tlx* following arc- cop fee'
of two auch letters, the originate of which can be
seen at our office: —
Eastwood, near Sydney: “Will yon please send
to the above address two tins of ’Muatdie’ Powder,
for which I enclose 2/- in stamps. 1 cannot get
on without. ‘Mustdio.’” —(Signed. B.T.)
Milpariuka, JRS.W.; “Pleaga let ffito have two
inure tins of your ‘Mustdie’ Powder. It is just
the thing for Lho fliw*.”- (Signed, If.W.MeB.)
U
r»
NGN POISONOUS POWDER.
THEGRMTINSECT
h
Hies.
fleas.
Bogs.
Mosquitoes
lira
The Red Page
The Novel
About 30 years ago the three-volume novel
died of inanition. A sad period followed—not
so sad as that of the three-decker, perhaps, but
quite sad- of yellow backs, the reason of
whose existence was that the novel was
essentially frivolous and therefore should be
frivolously clad. This was well enough for
w-n • io / I , k V,- but not ( l uite f air to Besant, or
" nkie Collins, or a good many others. The
general contempt for the novel was part of
the heavy Victorian awakening. A blear-
eyed, brandy-and-water dawn this, on a
leather mattress in a four-poster bed. Red
sausages kept air out of the over-furnished
room, much as the elders and a fetich of
theirs called “getting on” kept air out of the
youngers minds. It was a bad time for every-
body, but it was a hell of a time for those
youngers.
-Lhe novel was a useless, second-rate frip-
pery, of no possible value or service. The
prescribed brain food was “Science Dribbles ”■
the journals of some mentally-deficient mis-
sionaries, and snippets of obscure knowledge
collected in plush scrap-books. These things
together with a fulsome respect for one’s
elders (in spite of them), led apparently to
getting on.” Samuel Smiles had a hand
“it- A nd broadcloth, bugles and bombazine
did good work, too; all to the end that no
man under 40 lifted liis head in the Prince
Consort s England. At that age a man was
said to be really getting on, which put the
seal of his elders’ approval on him, so that
his lifted head should be iron bound in the
tali hat of prejudice-before he could use his
eyes.
lhis state of affairs stultified free imagin-
ative work in England for some years. A
number of people got on prodigiously, how-
ever, and a good deal of money was collected
and salted down. Later, some young men of
the Winston Churchill and G. Iv. Chester-
ton type had the effrontery to lift their eyes
before the iron hat was due, with the alarm-
ing results predicted all along by those
deeply-respected elders. The youngers started
to neglect this all-important job of getting
on according to the pot-hat pattern. They
meddled with the arts; they threw away the
scrap-books and sausages, and invented new
sciences, new surgery, new music and new
everything. They lifted the ban from free
imaginative effort, and the country went to
the Devil.
One of the results of their work was the
resuscitation of fiction as an artistic medium
of expression. The Victorian short story dies
hard (it is a long way from dead in Eng-
land yet'), but the Victorian novel is as dead
as ,a ooor-nail. It may be that fiction still
A -anguishes in the contempt of numbers of the
eldeis, but that doesn’t matter now. For
all practical purposes it is firmly in its place
of equality with any other form of expres-
sion.
The novel is no longer a nail on the par-
son’s door, or the door of Samuel Smiles, on
which to hang warnings and instructions. It
is the reflection of social reality recorded in
its proper literary place. It is not frivolous;
it is as important as the verse-reflection of
inspired illusion, or as the discursive -essays
and papers reflecting the critical action of
one mind. In capacity of dissemination it
is more important than these, inasmuch as
its current public 'is far greater. It (I write
of the ideal novel) is the story of the men
and women thiit we know, walking perhaps
in paths and times different from ours, but
walking in the same manner and direction.
It is the story of the happiness or pain that
may come to us on any day; of the dear
trivialities that make our lives; of all the
simplicities that are ours. Thus it is the
thing which gets to us most strongly and
most often; it is the thing which lifts most
readily and easily the burden of the day,
needing no study or unusual taste for its
appreciation; and, for three-fourths of us,
it is the thing which stands*for reading.
This wide appeal, this best-selling possi-
bility has made the novel something of a
strumpet on the literary streets. Men and
women have turned out nounds and pounds
of stories without the least claim to the
title of “novel. ’ Some of these books adhere
with engaging simplicity to the details of the
strumpets’ craft; the dirty stories come, and
make their shocked success, and go. The
writer takes his in obey, measured at the
rates for “the oldest best-paying profession
in the world,” and that is the end of that.
Others are on a higher level, but are in the
end as literarily negligible, reflecting, as they
do, nothing of the reality of every day. Their
themes are the solutions of problems, ethical,
social, scientific or denominational./ How-
ever well they are written (and sometimes
they are very well written indeed), they, too,
abide only for their passing moment, take
their money, and go. A stronger class
among best-sellers is that from which the
“artistic” novel comes; here the author often
has a Bohemian setting which is consistent,
full of charm, and quite logical in its motives
and action. If it confines itself to Bohemia,
the good novel is in the fourpenny box at
the end of the year. If it comes outside and
nts_ Bohemia into its secondary place in the
social scheme, it lasts longer. But its length
of life is determined, as is the life of all
by the faithfulness of its reflection'
or the Jife that is about us on any common
day. The nearer it keeps to the things that
we touch, and know, and laugh at, the better
its chances of old age.
. most formidable best-seller of the lot
is the manufactured Social, novel, the lineal
descendant of lasl century’s “society novel.”
ihis is a proposition. On the
T- \ Robert Chambers sold his
birthright for the best price in this connec-
tion, although the efforts of other true artists,
as (lichens and Ilall Caine, have been many
and strong The ingredients are as follows :
A group of characters in the colorful setting
ol some stamping-ground of “society”; a
heroine Rl variance with convention, hand-
sorne, courageous and interesting; a plot
shifting from color to color; skilful charac-
terisation, and a good dramatic touch in the
S U S CtU /« d f e , nes \ possibly a triangle,
7 deiuini. heroine at one corner. In
our Ml? chapters the plot is wrenched
° L direction. Somebody dies (pos-
siblv the villain commits suicide at his
Club) ; or the heroine, the reason for whose
creation was her bravery and indifference
to her set’s opinion, goes back in sorrow to
home and mother; and the triangle is folded
again into respectability. That is as false to
life as a constructed story could be. That
heroine would have been out of her idiotic set
before her hair was up. If the thing is sin-
ce?e >, the action of a triangle is inevitable;
and if it is insincere, its end uncertainly not
the cold welcome of the churchwardens. And
life, in any set, does not shift only from
dramatic color to color. In any case, given
(with the benefit of the doubt) that the
author may be wrong in his view of life, that
his imagination, being overworked, has
shown him a false picture, those last respect-
able chapters give it away : they double the
sales.
“Vanity Fair” is a great novel, and “David
Copperfield”; “Tono-Bungay” and “Alice
for Short” ; and the. others whose names are
on your lips. They record their impressions
in terms of the real things which cannot be
forced out of their direction. So do “Tom
Jones,” “Ilichard Calmady” and “The Ego-
ist,” “The Old Wives’ Tale,” “The Man of
Property” and “The Increasing Purpose.”
All these reflect lives of their day, proving
as they do that the business of recording for
the hearers is of no date. If it is faithful'and
good when it is done, it is always good.
FRANCIS BRIEN.
Verse at Thirteen
Here is another rather remarkable thing
written for The Bulletin by the 13-year-
old Patricia Francis, the child who dreams
and writes in a remote homestead in Far
North Queensland: —
THE AUSTRALIAN MUSE.
Upon the sungold heights of Life she starids^
As wild and shy and sweet asvfragrant dawn.
She seems all j’-outh, her snowy garments new
As nodding pink-winged flowers, drenched in daw.
Full dark and wide before her lie lone lands.
And precipices of the Morning yawn.
She lifts her arms to brave the battling air
That rushes past on whistling wings of wind;
Her glowing throat shows round aud white and bare
Through dusky wreathings of her cloudy hair.
Her gaze takes in this world, and, ov’rywhere,
New worlds to conquer for a mighty mind.
Her eyes are fountains of triumphant youth,
Her voice compelling as’ the voice of sea.sg
She shows no pride, _save of her place of birth,
Her own warm part of fragrant vivid earth;
Her mind has less of mercy than of truth;
She loves both, sunny hills and dark of trees.
And the white passion of her brave young soul
Turns dark to light, and light to night again;
Quiescent to the moods of her deep heart.
She smiles, nor shudders, at a bitter part.
She is more strong than all the waves that roll,
For she has trodden in dim fields of pain.
QUEENSLAND.
L. PATRICIA FRANCIS.
Words
“Francis Brien” (Red Page SO/iO/’iSJ) de-
plores the avalanche of novels written in
English, and asserts that it “correlates redun-
dancy, which gives no chance to the reviewer
or to the reader to treat the ‘literary’ out-
put seriously.” Nothing is to be gained by
condemning the frequency of the modern
novel. The output, presumably, is govern-
ed by the dear old law of demand and
supply, and it ill-becomes any man who
makes a living by writing to condemn those
who provide that living by reading. The
dull dogs who recommend us when a new
book is published to read an old one are the
enemies of literature. Without suggesting
that Arnold Bennett is a bigger man than
Shakspeare, I maintain that, other things
being anything like equal, a living author,
writing of our own times, manners and
customs, is worth half a dozen literary
corpses; and the prevailing recognition of
this fact, despite efforts to boom the well-
advertised dead, is proof of the fundamental
sanity of the reading public.
My complaint is not that there are too
many books, but that the books published
contain too many words. Wordiness has
been the curse of writers through the ages.
Many of the yarns in the Holy Bible are
told with admirable brevity, but the book
would be more popular if its 773,093 words
were reduced by half. The famous Vic-
torian novels averaged 400,000 words apiece;
the average popular novel of to-day con-
tains from 120.000 to 150,000, and is still
too long. Thackeray (I am told) was a
great writer, but I defy any reasonably in-
telligent person to read through “Penden-
nis” (about 400,000 words) without being
iored at intervals for a dozen pages on end.
Great books, like Hardy’s “Tess” and “Jude
the Obscure,” would be even greater if they
were shorter. H. G. Wells crowds into
what he evidently considers his more im-
portant novels anything from 170,000 to
200,000 words (I don’t happen to have
“Joan and Peter” near me, and that is pro-
bably a good deal longer). “Mr. Britling
Sees It Through” is a remarkably interest-,
ing book, but' many pages of it could with
advantage be scrapped. Wells, unlike some
of the mid-Victorians, simply doesn’t know
how to be dull through an entire book, but
he is able to be so for many pages on end.
Of all his works I know of only three which
can be said to be practically without a dull
page—“ Love and Mr. Lewisham” (100,000
words), “Beaiby” (80,000) and “Mr. Polly”
(75,000) —and the shortest of these is the
best.
Not only are the comparatively long and
important novels which deal with the de-
velopment of character, phases of social life,
etc., too long, but even the short ones, such
as those in the New South Wales Bookstall
series, which are concerned only with plot
and incident, are longer than they need be. 1
wrote a Bookstall novel a while back—a
mechanical affair, relying for its appeal upon
the vast convolutions of an artificially com-
plicated plot. More things happen in my
story (which contains about 50,000 words)
than in three novels by Wells. There was
a deuce of a lot of “mystery” which had
to be first created and then explained—and
I could have done the job more interestingly
in 30.000 words. My only reason for writ-
ing 50,000 was that this appears to be about
the minimum number a publisher is pre-
pared to accept. Various reviewers, in an
endeavor to treat me as kindly as possible
referred to the alleged “slick craftsmanship”
and “brisk narration,” but I can assure these
(Continued on page 24.)


24 NOV 1921
1
w aee
!■ ■■■
This is a Wiard All-Steel Plough (No. 69), suitable
for exceptionally heavy work, such as road-building. It can be
used with four or more horses, or steam power. Weight, with
clevis, 3251 b £lB/15/-
No. 62, the Wiard Patent Wood Beam Plough
(as illustrated) will turn a furrow from 3 to 5 inches deep
and from 6 to 8 inches wide. Suitable for light work, one
horse being required. Weight 401 b., with wheel only.
£2/17/6
a
The Wiard Rooter Plough, No. 67 (as illustration), has
great strength and is adapted to contractors’ work. The beam
is made of charcoal-cast-iron. The point is wedge shape, 32in.
long, and one inch thick, and is reversible. Weight, with
clevis, 2501 b £l3/15/-
This Plough, No. 74 Wiard, has forged steel beam, chilled
or steel mouldboard, knife coulter (not as shown), and Scotch clevis.
The handles are of iron, and can be raised or lowered ; best soft-
centre steel mouldboards, steel landsides, with steel shoes, and
forged steel beam. Weight 841 b 90/«
:*
mm
No. 120. — Steel Beam Patent Swivel Plough (as
illustration), has steel mouldboard, and is rigged with straight steel
coulter, which is always in line with the plough, being automatically
shifted when the mouldboard is reversed. This plough will turn
hillside or level land without leaving dead furrows or ridges. Will
cut from sin. to Bin. deep and Bin. to 12in. wide. Weight
1181 b .. £B/10/-
(II
The Morgan Patent Spading Harrow is infinitely
superior to every other form of Harrow. It not only thoroughly
pulversises the soil, but leaves it in such a condition that it is
properly aerated.
A—3ft.—One-horse, 8 ICin. spades £lO
A —4ft. —Light two-horse, 8 16irr. spades ..... £lO/15/-
A—sft.—Light two-horse, 10 16in. spades £ll
C —sft. —Two-horse, 10 18in. spades ..... £l2/15/-
A—6ft.--Standard two-horse, 12 16in. spades ..... ... £l2/15/-
C —6ft. —- Heavy two-horse, 12 18in.. spades £l4/5/-
C—7ft. —Two- or three-horse, 14 18in. spades £l5
Everything for the
FARM.
T TELPING you to make it
n
t
pay]
Every year is witness
to improvements in Farm Imple-
ments —saving labor —speeding up
—bringing a better return.
Anthony Horderns’ displays embodying
these features are equal to the best Annual
Show of Exhibits.
Whether you dip into the pages of the
Agricultural Catalogue or saunter round
the spacious Show Galleries, you will find
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ the medium
whereby you come into closest touch with the
world’s master aids to Farming Efficiency.
Here is a page that will interest you. If you
cannot find what you want send for the
CATALOGUE.
This Disc Harrow, The star, embraces every modern
improvement and convenience, and can be operated with the
greatest ease for man and team. The frame is of strong channel
steel, as are also the braces that hold both ends down to their
work. Supplied with fore carriage, taking the weight off the horse’s
neck and allowing harrow to turn in a small space.
Light 2-Horse, sft. wide, 10 16in. discs
2- or 3-Horse, 6ft. wide, 12 16in. discs
All Star Harrows have two levers. Cleaners included.
£l6
£l7
No. 245 (as illustrated). A well-built Wiard Double Furrow
Plough, embodying the latast improvements. Fitted with two 8-inch
shares. Weight 2201 b. Eminently suitable for Vineyard or Orchard
use .?. £l2/15/-
• These prices do not include cost of carriage.
Anthony Hordern s S°, ns
605 Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY.
:
This is the Emperor Hay Rake, and a good rake
it is, too. The teeth are flattened and have chisel points
that will not dig, take up little dust, offer least resistance,
and reduce the draft.
Bft. wide, 24 teeth £l2
PENT AIIH
Bentall’s Mill. The name Bentall 'em a crusher is a
guarantee of efficiency. At the price quoted this mill is
supplied with one handle only. Price. .. ... £7/17/6
CX'B
CXB Chaffcutter (Bentall’s), rising mouth,
73in. wide, cuts |in. and Jin., 36in. wheel ... £B/17/6
The p. & o. Canton Disc Plough gives good
results in heavy, sticky soils or in very hard, dry soil.
It is strongly made of the best materials. The discs are
26in in diameter, and each will turn a furrow from 8 to 12
inches deep and from 10 to 12 inches wide. Price:
1- £l9/10/-
2- £24/10/-
3- (as illustrated) . £2B/10/-
This is the Canton Guard Lever Harrow, »
ist useful implement, especially in trashy ground. The
jonvenience and waste of time caused by the tines accumu-
;ing trash and fouling a harrow can be avoided by using
is harrow, for by means of the levers the tines clear tliem-
ves. Made in two sections of 25 and 30 teeth per section.
50 teeth, £8; 60 teeth, including long bar, £9/5/-
The illustrated Agricultural Imple-
ments Catalogue costs you nothing
and may save you pounds. Send
for a copy NOW!
TB2


•v
I
■-
For a happier
1920
&
AK
All the happy times of 1 920 will be doubly
happy if you make Kodak pictures—your
Kodak Album will prove a never-failing
source of happiness. Resolve now to
make this year a Kodak year—Kodaks are
extremely simple to use; you’ll learn to use
your Kodak in half an hour, and just as there
are Kodaks for all users, so are there Kodak
prices for all purses. Decide to follow up
this fascinating hobby.
Ask for the New Kodak Catalogue.
Of all Kodak dealers and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney ; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane;
The Valley; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba;
Flinders Street, Townsville; Denham Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth;
109-111 Dixon Street, Wellington, N.Z. (Wholesale) ; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay
and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z. (Retail) ; 3 Lome Street, Auckland, N.Z. (Wholesale) ; 76 Stuart
Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Wholesale) ; 148 Lichfield Street, Christchurch, N.Z. (Wholesale).
■ ■ a
The Art of Ballad-Singing
The ballad is a simple song, with a homely appeal, a reflection of those joys and sorrows that make up life, yet a song
to which only a singer of great artistic simplicity and sympathetic temperament can do full justice.
Many famous operatic stars have failed in interpreting ballads—but
“His Master’s Voice
Records cover a wealth of delightful ballad-singing that is universal in its heart appeal, and perfect in tonal purity.
The artists who record ballads with “His Master’s Voice” are acclaimed by one and all as pre-eminent in this ever-
popular branch of musical art.
These are records that remain always fresh and new—sweet, tender songs, the appeal of which is lasting.
Mr. JOHN HARRISON—Tenor.
10-INCH RECORDS, 5/9.
4-2385—Drink to Me only with Thine
Eyes.
3-2390 —Mary.
3- —Oft in the Stilly Night.
4- —Take a Pair of Sparkling Eyes.
3- —Two Eyes of Grey.
12-INCH RECORDS, 8/-
02333—C0me into the Garden, Maud.
02152 —Kathleen Mavourneen.
02122 —Thora.
Mr. EVAN WILLIAMS—Tenor.
10-INCH RECORDS, 7/6.
4- —A Dream. .
4-2181 —A Perfect Day.
4-2056 —Absent.
12-INCH RECORDS, 10/-
02208 —I Hear You Calling Me.
02268—1’1l Sing Thee Songs of Araby.
Mdme. KIRKBY LUNN—Contralto.
10-INCH RECORDS, 7/6.
2-3192—A Memory.
3903—A Song of Sleep.
12-INCH RECORDS, 10/-
03217 —As. Once in May.
03142—Three Fishers (pianoforte ac-
companiment by Mr. Percy
Pitt).
03537—She Wore a Wreath of Roses
(pianoforte accompaniment by
Mr. Percy Pitt).
Mr. HARRY DEARTH—Bass—
-12-INCH RECORDS, 8/-
02291—My Old Shako.
02673—The Two Grenadiers. .
Mr. JOHN McCORMACK—Tenor
10-INCH RECORDS, 7/6.
4-2579 —Because.
4-2378 —Genevieve.
4-2076 —I Hear You Calling >le.
12-INCH RECORDS, 10/-
02245 —Drink to Me only with Thine
Eyes.
02325 —Kathleen Mayourneen.
Complete record lists and name of nearest
accredited dealers on request.
15he GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
“Ilis Master's Voice”
Head. Trade-mark.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
“ GRAMOPHONE”
Rend.. Trade-mark.
“HIS MASTER'S VOICE


fdhfgd
For Sick Headache
Many people suffer at regular
intervals from sick headache. The
trouble is caused by accumlation
of poison in the digestive organs
and this poison produces nausea
and the headache follows.
These distressing attacks may
be avoided. Pinkettes are dainty
little sugar-coated ovals that act so
gently that they are the ideal laxa-
tive to use in correcting a tendency
to sick headache. They have no
unpleasant effect to make them
objectionable to the extra-sensitive
sick headache patient. Old fash-
ioned harsh purgatives will not do
at all in such cases.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin/
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Where to Stay when Visiting Sydney
Cronulla Beach Hotel.
Direction Cronulla Hotel, Ltd.
Heitithy, Invigorating SURFING Resort.
Tel., Kogarah 19. Week-ends a Specialty.
J. A. GRANT, Manager.
fxrfi/nj^vown
3®
m
S.HSV3
hfd
H
The Best You Can Get
for M a r k i n g Linen
Whether Household or Personal —en*
turea your property against loss. Any
Name woven into a Fine Cambric Tape
in Fast Color. Always ready to be sewn
to any garment or article on any ma' erial
Price* -12 doz. 4/6, 6doz. 3/3,3d0z. 2/3
Sold by All Best Drapers
Made in Australia by
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.,
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Vic.
Write for Style Book
673
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded.. £1,000,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £1,700,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £39,000,000
Annual Income over .. .. .. £5,500,’ 900
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
- H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
j§fe&r* |
&fcshsr<? i^(
MMM
mi
□r 8. Allen’s
jhfd
‘THRIFT”—the National Watchword
In these present days of economy, when apparel is required to give the utmost
service,
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
provide an excellent polish, which will increase the wear, preserve the leather and
give a bright and lasting shine. Bostock’s Yiolo Cream, for Patent Leather and
Glacg Kid, is a scientific emulsion of high-grade waxes, which keeps the leather
soft and pliable, thus preventing cracks and insuring added service.
Colors : Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood and White. In Tins, Bottles and Tubes.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s Yiolo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney.
ONOTO
Every Careful Man has one
and Every Careful Woman too.
It his' supply. and it
Price 17/- a , r |f“o Ono h to n Vafveless r for those wliVdo' SJt SaEiPa* Self-Filling Safety
Pen 12/6 and upwards of all stationers, jewellers and Stores
Manufacturers : THOS. DE LA RUE & CO., LTD.. Bunhdl Row. London, E.C
Managing Agents: NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST. Sydney & Melbourne.
A*k for Onoto ink--Be*t for all Pen».
The Super“Fx§R”Watch
The original “Fx and R” Watches are known throughout Austral-
asia for their marvellous accuracy and endurance.
But, as usual, we progress; and so now we are showing the
SUPER “Fx and R” WATCH.
Its present price is 63/-, in steel case; but what a watch it is!
Every latest improvement known to horologieal science is in it.
It is jewelled, in every part where wear occurs. It will go with
profound accuracy; indeed, it is so accurate that a ship could be
steered to England by it.
For strength and standing up against hard wear we unhesitatingly
say that no watch the world over equals the SUPER “Fx and R”
Watch.
We stock “Fx and R” movements in every style of case.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
Plain Figures.
Cash only.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
Gent.’s Full-size Open-face
Oxidised Steel, Super “Fx and R”
15-jewelled Lever, 6«4/ -
All
Chemlfts,
two size*.
%
SEASICK
ffcflED'!
GUARANTEED OR MONEY REFUNDED.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO. LTD.,
Aberdeen House, 204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
C 10
TROOPS
TRAVELLING OVER-SEAS SHOULD
AVOID DISCOMFORT FROM
SEA SICKNESS.
Mothersill’s Seasick Remedy
is invaluable. It positively
Prevents and Cures Sea, Air,
and Train Sickness.
NO BAD AFTER EFFECTS.
"T-H - /
-4'*
A
a
>\\\
(HP
“**«iillli(
/J
I
0?'
m
$
S'
See [his brand!
on each ShirK
h
m
TTjigljg.
Shirts
Superior Fit and Finish
Thistle Shirts win
the enthusiastic ap-
proval of particular 4
men, for Thistle Shirts typify
good taste in style coupled
with comfort.
Their exceptional wearing
qualities, superior workman-
ship, and absolute correctness
ensure unusual value for your
money.
When you buy Shirts say
“ Thistle Shirts.” Ask also
for Thistle PYJAMAS.
Made in Australia
Alexander Stewart &Sons Ltd.
Makers, BRISBANE AND SYDNEY
.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Child Song.
Fifty miles from Christinas
I met with Monday Week
Pulling on a kite-string
That played at hide-and-seek.
The wind was snowing gum-bloom
Up and down the creek —
Pull, pull the kite-string,
Pull, Monday Week !
Fifty miles from Christmas
The sun shines at night.
I saw the long kite-string
But couldn’t find the kite.
A star was in a green tree,
The moon was big and white— .
Pull, pull the kite’s tail,
The wind will put it right.
Fifty miles from Christmas
The sun and moon went down;
And then I saw a glow-worm
As big as half-a-crown.
It climbed up a tall tree
Among the branches brown
To show me where the kite-stridg
Ban all the way to town.
Fifty miles from Christmas
The night began to sing.
I called to pretty Tuesday
To help to pull the string;
And Yesterday and Friday
They all helped to bring
Across the sky of Can’t-See
The kite of Everything.
Fifty miles from Christmas
Rest sleepy head!
SoA-.eone brought a kite-string
.4ad tied it to the bed ;
Tied it to the brass rail,
And then the big sun said
“Here’s the kite of Everything—
The Christmas bush is red!”
N.S.W.
D. M. W.
The Library.
Set in the mellow silence of the room
Great carven book-shelves laden with
grave books,
Him faded rugs, spoils of an ancient loom,
Deep cushioned chairs, and dreamy ingle-
nooks.
The atmosphere is fragrant with a scent
Where bowls of roses spill their rich per-
fume,
While to the whole austerity is lent
By a white statue shining through the
gloom.
A garden slumbers where the sunlight gleams,
A bee is humming on the drowsy air;
This is the home of peace—and yet there
seems
'A subtle restless stirring everywhere.
High carven book-shelves laden with grave
works
Of stern philosophy and staid desire:
Beneath some cover young Adventure lurks;
Romance is smiling with her lips of fire.
The sunlight weaves strange patterns on the
floor,
The air grows tremulous with muffled
strife.
If I but turned a leaf, through its white door
A thousand shining ghosts would leap to
life.
QUEENSLAND.
A. GORE-JONES.
The Unsleeping One.
The stroke of one shakes all the air;
And down a valley steep
My mind runs like a hunted hare,
A fugitive from sleep.
The lean dog Sleep he strides behind,
His muzzle strung with slime.
He silent is, and black, and blind.
He lifts his nose to scent the wind,
And pads a loping rhyme.
My mind drifts like a breath of air
In cobwebbed corridors,
Where is no light, and dank and bare
Are fungused walls and floors.
Here ’neath a world in foetid heat
The bat-winged creatures wheel,
And ever comes the rhythmic beat
Of little, padded, running feet,
The black do.g at my heel.
Chimes break upon the night again,
A startling call comes down
About me like the chug of rain,
The clatter of the town —
A clack, clack, clack of hoofs that clip
My forehead as they fall.
They clatter in my ear or trip
In distance to a dreary drip,
But never go at all.
That steed with miasmatic breath
And dead eyes in his head
Is gaunt and old, as grey as Death;
His hoofs are shod with lead.
His naked rider snakes entwine,
The mummied sorceress.
Her face of bone shows starkly, shine
Her crystal eyes: she is the sign
Of crazy wakefulness.
I know the long road they must take,
As dark as a dead hell;
Its ever-clanking hoof-beats make
A pulsing nought can quell.
The clack, clack, clack swells" over all;
Far out upon the sea
Of night the raps incessant fall
Upon the three-deep granite w’all
Of black infinity.
Five strokes upon the gong. They blare
Across the gulf of space.
My mind winds like a hunted hare,
The dog gives up the chase.
A red bird fears the firmament
With one shrill stroke, and grey
And hot with weariness, and bent
With languor and with discontent,
Comes in the hungry day!
VICTOBTA.
EDWARD DYSON.


MANUFACTURING IN
AUSTRALIA
The Policy of the Colonies of to-day is to manufacture and become self-supporting as far
as possible.
AUSTRALIA can, and will, enter largely into every sphere of the manufacturing world.
There is much to be said for the Australian mechanic. For the past four years, owing to
shipping restrictions, he has suffered the disadvantages of having to use old and practically
obsolete machine tools, instead of the more modern types; yet he has produced work up to
standard, which speaks volumes for his adaptability. Such adaptibility was under the circum-
stances a great asset, but the METHODS OF PRODUCTION VERY COSTLY AND LABORIOUS.
All restrictions now being removed, presents the opportunity of equipping your shop with
machine tools, representing the very latest practice in manufacturing. Machines that will
be profitable both to those who buy and use them.
Assuming you decide to manufacture, commence where others left off, not where they began:
but to do this YOU MUST HAVE THE NECESSARY ADVICE in the Selection of Plant
Equipping of same, and instructions in the efficient handling after installation.
Considei what this means to any firm. The plant produces work immediately on modern
qufckly' USerS d re *- urn on their capital outlay, and supplying Australia’s needs
Having had a number of years experience in manufacturing of Machine Tools, etc., and modern-
ising of Engineering Workshops—the last five years on massed production—we claim the rinht tn
call ourselves MACHINE TOOL EXPERTS, and to back our claim we demonstrate in customers’
works the output capacity of all Manufacturing Machines we supply.
THE FOLLOWING ADVICE IS FREE FOB THE ASKING-
Rearrangement of your present plant.
Balancing your plant to bring each section into line.
Complete plants, giving guaranteed output on all details of the work you have
under consideration.
Fixing of limits, for interchangeability, which depends entirely on your class
of work.
Finally, to help AUSTRALIA to manufacture.
Our SMALL TOOLS DEPARTMENT is worthy a visit. At the present time we have a good
stock of Norton Grinding- Wheels, Chucks, Dies, Drills, Cutters, etc., for all classes of work
Our Grinding Wheel Specialist will be pleased to advise suitable wheels to anyone who has a
grinding problem to solve.
A FEW OF OUR SPECIALITIES'
Horizontal Milling: Machines.
Vertical Milling: Machines.
Capstan Lathes.
Combination Turret Lathes.
Hexagon Turret Lathes.
Automatic Turning: Machines.
Hall-bearing: Drills.
Coventry Self-opening: Dieheads.
Coventry Concentric Chucks.
Coventry Collapsing: Taps.
Baush Multiple Spindle Drills.
Brown Bevel Gear Shapers.
Carpenter Taps and Dies.
Pollard Heavy Duty Drills.
Photostat Copying Machines.
Wadkin Mills Universal Woodworking
Machines.
Dorman Tapping Attachments.
Fellows Gear Shapers.
Gardner Crank Pin Turning Machines.
Heald Grinding Machines.
Pratt Chucks.
Jackson Die Sinkers.
Keller Die Sinkers.
Maiden Screwing Machines.
Garvin Milling Machines.
Dodge & Shipley Lathes.
Dumsden Grinders.
Moback Machine Vices.
Norton Grinding Machines.
Queen City Shaping Machines.
E. G.‘ Herbert Hack Sawing Machines.
Rotoflam Hardening Furnaces.
Eternite Case-hardening Compound.
Scriven Shipyard Machinery.
Taft Fierce Tool Room Specialties.
Tangye’s Heavy Machine Tools.
Van Norman Combination Mills.
Worcester Drill Grinders,
Willard Lathes.
Wrigley’s Small Tools.
CHAS E. YOUNG
Sole Agent for
ALFRED HERBERT LTD.
Machine Tool Makers and Importers, Coventry, England,
Telephones: City 10109, 10110.
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Lathe,” Sydney.
Codes Used: ABC, Uieber's, Western Union and Private.
57 GEORGE STREET NORTH, CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
fdgh
fgd
1000
GIVEN
AWAY
FREE
1000
hfd
mm
pii
hfd
h
1000 Flashlight Torches, vulcanised fibre, heavily nickeled, powerful lamp, strong
and serviceable. GIVEN AWAY FREE to the first thousand Readers of this paper
who send in an application for one of our
MAKE-UR-OWN BATTERY OUTFITS.
SH&itrSL VS tn^2Wr^"Sg
SSco^?nT a n y r,® tlier . Flashlight. Battery. A REMARKABLE offer made by a
RESPONSIBLE Firm to introduce this MAKE-UR-OWN Battery outfit into Aus-
tralia. LOSE NO IIME—WRITE AT ONCE (enclosing stamp) for full particulars to
SPECIALTY SUPPLIES, Commerce Building, SYDNEY.
W
ham
bacon
VEAL
ONGu
m
4
•O
QRn3_
Sometimes ’tis a pleasure
to be hungry.
A real pleasure to feel that healthy
hunger that follows exercise in the
great outdoors—and to know that
a good meal of
“REX”
CAMP PIE
awaits you.
There’s nothing more tempting or
more satisfying than this canned
delicacy.
It is always ready for instant use.
Be sure and take a tin away
with you on your holiday trips.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products,
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon.
J. 1177
Abdulla Cigarettes combine the choicest tobaccos,
careful hand-making and perfect packing. As a result
their fragrance is delightful, their flavor is mellow and
mild, and they burn freely and evenly. You will class
Abdullas as the perfect cigarette—try them.
WMW
For ripe flavor, unquestionable purity
and mildness, there is no whisky to equal
Thorne’s. Next time, say “Thorne’s,
please,” and appreciate the undoubted
goodness of this fine spirit.
Judge Thorne’s to-day.
THORNES
O.H.M."lncomparable" WHISKY.
Its richness in higher ethers makes Martell’s Brandy
specially good for hospital or sick-room use—i|s perfect
bouquet explains why connoisseurs prefer it. Ask for
it—insist if you have to.
MARTELL’S
Fine
Old Cognac
BRANDY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office., Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 41.—N0. 2081.
THURSDAY, JANUARY !, 1920.
Price 6d.
FED UP.
“Out you go-you’ve been giving me too much work altogether!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
"Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO. SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence ’ column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short dales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tub Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bui
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. I er-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Tun Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and, adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e.,nny picture
which has to be re-drawn —-will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of Tim Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs, Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and f W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.4.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; J.
Roland Kay Co., 1849 Conway Buildings, Chicago,
U. Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington,
V. A.; Bretano’s, Fifth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York. , , , ,
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon.— W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillic Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillic Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Kulamadan.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
1003., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet —- otherwise ; Boz., lid.; 810~- t° 10oz., Sd.;
lOoz. to IZoz., Sid.; elsewhere, 40z., lid., and id. each
additional Zoz.
NOTICE UNDER THE ELECTORAL LAW.
For any unsigned matter in this paper for
which a signature is required under the
Commonwealth electoral law, S. H. Prior, 214
George Street, Sydney, accepts the responsi-
bility.
'Zfce'^tzllelzAi.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 1, 1920.
THE NEW YEAR AND THE GOLDEN
AGE.
The New Year begins to-day and no one
in authority is using much effort to make it
better than the old one. But it is quite
possible that it may be much worse. Aus-
tralia has enjoyed a Golden Age—a genuine
Golden Age, whereas most Golden Ages have
been mythical or have benefited only a
small ruling class. Among them have been:
The simple pastoral days at the back of the
year 1, when the lion drank out of the hand.
The heroic age, common to all long-pedigreed
nations, when the gods came down from Olympus
and danced the hesitation waltz with the daughters
of men.
The martial age, when knights were bold, and
Plancus was consul, and Kubla Khan abode in
Xanadu, and similar things happened.
The age located almost all over the earth and
at. any date until the wide use of printing dissi-
pated such visions—the period situated somewhere
between the year after the Peloponnesian War and
the year before the War of Jenkins Ear, when the
world was wide, and the care-free young globe stayed
out late at night, and tortoise-shell cats were three
a penny, and man acquired a wider mental outlook,
partly because that eminent patron of literature,
the great and good Obadiaii 111., had just, become
king in Whuffenburg, and partly through other
causes. .
All these and many other gilded periods were
dubious enough; but Australia s burst of
good fortune was beyond question. This
community came into possession of a con-
tinent without having to fight strenuous
Indians for it, as the American argonauts
did, and without seven white races fighting
each other for possession, as Spaniards,
Portuguese. Dutchmen, English, Russians.
French I ' and Swedes did for the COLUMBUS
country. It never had to pay definite
tribute to any mother country, and its gold
Snes weren’t reserved as the property of the
king; the community was turned loose on
them in a casual fashion and anybody had
a show. It was much the same with the
easily-won lands, for the American idea of
giving a colony bodily to the monarch’s friend
of the moment, and telling the people and
the noble landlord to scramble along as best
they could, never obtained in Australia.
Having divided the best of the soil by selling
it and spending the proceeds, and having used
up the easily-won gold to the extent of
about £600,000,000, and having in addition
acquired about £400,000,000 of peace debts,
and probably, by the time the business is
cleared up, about £400,000,000 of war debt,
and perhaps £100,000,000 of private or semi-
private foreign loans, Australia can lay its
hand on the region of its undigested break-
fast and say honestly that it has had a
Golden Age. It can also say, without fear
of contradiction, that it will never have
another exactly like it.
The new year will be a year of official
peace, just as the old one was of semi-official
peace. That is, so' far as the last war is
concerned. But the blessings of peace don’t
make much difference to Australia, for the
horrors of the Great War weren’t here, so
we have no sudden relief from horrors. In
fact, the peace creates rather a feeling of
loss and melancholy. It puts an end to the
excuse for floating war loans which were
almost entirely spent here, the pay of our
troops being judiciously owed in England. It
ends the pretext for inflating the much over-
bloated note issue. And Governments can
no longer make the breathless profession that
they mustn’t be expected to attend to
ordinary local affairs or notice the disap-
pearance of an odd million or two, being
overborne by the dust and heat of battle, the
snorting of the war-horse, the blowing of
their own trumpet and the tumult and the
shouting. The peace has brought back a
multitude of men whom the continent doesn’t
exactly know what to do with. It was a
wonderful army that came back, and
probably man will never see another like it,
for it was grown on the last of the world’s
great empty spaces. This force can’t be
employed repairing war damages and be
paid out of the indemnity, for there are no
war damages here, and after the first claims
of the ravaged countries are considered there
is likely to be no perceptible indemnity. The
factories are all standing, unlike those of
Lille and other once-great cities; but Aus-
tralia drifts so easily into the habit of im-
porting everything, even bricks, so _ long as
there are loans or paper to pay with, that
the industrial waters closed behind these men
when they left, and it was difficult to find
the hole that ought to have been waiting for
them when they returned. So the simple device
is followed of giving them a loan and a bless-
ing and telling them to go into the country
and stay there as long as the money lasts.
It may not last long. For 1920 begins as
the most indebted year that the gloDe ever
saw, and some notable public schedules may
be filed before the end of it. It is, of course,
the most indebted year Australia ever saw.
Yet, judging by Holman and Storey and
llyan and Theodore programmes in the east
and the great Westralian programme at the
other end, the intention is to pile up debts
faster than ever, not to repair damages, for
there are none, nor to “settle” soldiers, for
that is Federal business; but just because
politicians have become so used to having
loans to spend that they don’t know how to
keep up a show of prosperity without them.
The new year opens with the prospective
battle-ground of the world shifted to our
doors and into our own seas. Instead of being
the people who were furthest removed from
the cockpit of the globe we are going to be
the people nearest to it. The only two Great
Powers which reaped vast wealth instead of
poverty out of the war look at each other
across us, like two lions looking athwart a
carcase. They are vastly bigger than they
were, not only because of their own expansion,
but because stupendous losses have left the;
other Powers a great deal smaller. One of
them wants open space very badly, and- Aus-
tralia and Siberia are the countries with
open space to spare. The other could do
with more space, and is hungering for new
markets. If one of them expands at the
expense of a third party the other may feel
bound to spread at the cost of a fourth party
by way of maintaining the balance, it being
a law of politics that if Smith robs Jones,
then Brown, if it is too costly to fight
Smith, robs Jenkins to make up. Despite
the League of Nations, if it lives, the old
rule will probably work in the old way.
There is talk of a Monroe doctrine for Asia,
of which more may be heard this year, and on
the strength of its unfortunate name Aus-
tralasia may be reckoned as interested in
the scheme. According to the persistent
Asiatic theory Australia isn’t the smallest con-
tinent but the biggest outlying Asiatic island,
8,500,000 square miles smaller than Africa
and about 2.000.000 square miles bigger tlm -
Greenland. But that point is really of no great
importance. What really counts is that Aus-
tralia begins 1920 with the biggest debt it
ever had; the biggest programme for in-
creasing that debt, not as a matter of emer-
gency, but as a regular progress towards in-
solvency ; and with the best front seat in
the prospective theatre of war —an orchestra-
stall seat right up against the big war-
drum and the sonorous battle trumpet—
whereas it used to have an unobserved six-
penny place in the gallery. For which and
other reasons it appears that things will
never be quite as they were before. A new
Golden Age may be found, but no effort will
keep the old one alive.
THE FARMERS’ PARTY AND THE
AUSTRALIAN SUICIDE CLUB.
Australia has acquired a new party—the
first worth calling a party since Labor
irrupted on the landscape—and the countiy.
waits with interest to know what the
Farmers propose doing. They will not be
strong enough to form a Government, being
the weakest of three bodies, yet they may
supply a policy to a Government. If it is-a
good ' polioy there is no reason why the
Farmers shouldn’t grow to be the dominant
crowd. No new combination ever started
with better chances. Not once since Aus-
tralia had Governments were there more
bad examples to take warning by. or more
mixed political drinks to swear off, or more
good principles lying around, unused, for
anybody to adopt and monopolise. The new
men come in when pretty nearly every pos-
sible bad thing has been done and pretty
nearly every possible foolish thing has been
said. If they have any trace of originality
about them —if they aren't mere copyists
and repetitionists—they can hardly fail to
do right. They can start fair without deny-
ing their old policies and holding up their
past to ridicule, for as a party they have
no. past. The Labor people also started
fair, but they began to degenerate into riot
and extravagance almost as soon as they
attained office,, and their career of borrow-
ing and job-distributing culminated when the
wild cats of the party got command and
threw overboard the old leaders and the old
principles. Then it became a combine which
made room in its ranks for every traitor
and every paid or honorary Hun agent—a
set of dull but wild mediocrities distributing
Potosi and Pactolus by word of mouth to
all and sundry, and promising to hand out
£25,000,000 in cash “before Christmas”
(that is to say, before the election vote was
even counted') if provided with the appear-
ance of a majority. It took the Labor party
just 12 years from its first arrival in
Federal office, and just six years from the
date of its first durable Ministry, to sink
to the level of the Perth Labor Conference,
which talked repudiation, the confiscation of
all property and abject surrender to the
Hun, who was to be allowed to keep all his
ill-gotten gains and all his downtrodden
peoples. With such an object-lesson before
it the Farmers’ party should at least know
how not to begin.
* * * *
If the fresh organisation proposes to be
another borrowing party then it is moder-
ately dead to begin with. There is no room
for another borrower, all the front seats for
that show being already taken up, though
there is plenty of room —a whole world of
room—for an anti-loan party. As loans are
about to stop very soon in any case through
the credit giving out, a borrowing com-
bination which comes in at the eleventh hour
and the autumn of the 50th minute would
raise very little money. It would get all
the disgrace and very little of the profit,
Nationalists and Laborites having taken the
profits already. It would begin where others
left off—begin in the sere and battered leaf
—and take up the superstition just when
the suDerstition was old and threadbare.
The Nationalists, both State and Federal,
have allowed their opponents to make politics
a borrowing race in which the biggest loan-
monger hopes to win by spending more than
the other fellow and spending it worse. In
N. S. Wales Holman lias got to the point
of borrowing £13,000,000 in one year if the
money can be got. Storey goes miles ahead
of him by declaring that his policy will only
be limited by the amount of labor available,
including all that can be attracted by high
loan wages from other industries and from
other States and other countries. In Federal
politics the bidding between Hughes and
Ryan has been almost equally keen. If
the Farmers think of entering for this Cup
they should consider in advance that mere
inexperienced or amateur dealers have little
chance of buying office that way, and there
is no joy in being the last horse —the one
that also ran. A borrowing party which
proposes to also pay, even if it only pro-
poses vaguely in its mind, is limited. One
that proposes to repudiate is unlimited, and
can win in a canter. The idea that many
prominent Laborites propose to repudiate
the Public Debt has good evidence behind
it, and Laborites who don’t feel that way
may be instructed to feel that way any time
a really enterprising Conference meets. The
party has already put on its programme
plan's for repudiating titles to land, to busi-
ness enterprises (the factories and work-
• shops are to be “taken over”), and to money
(the banks which hold the people’s money
are to be “taken over”). And at the famous
Perth Labor Conference, when the new
Labor leaders laid down the new Labor
policy, the repudiation of the Public Debt
was proposed, and the idea wasn't rejected.
It was referred, as a matter of expediency,
to the Federal party in Parliament, and as
a matter of expediency it hasn’t been
definitely commented on to this day. But
then, as any save the worst fools could see,
it was absurd to commit the party to repudia-
tion when there were only 500 millions to
steal, if it was possible, by waiting and bor-
rowing hard, to steal a thousand or two
thousand millions. The party never by any
chance makes any definite official statement
by an overwhelming majority that repudia-
tion is not bidden away at the back of its
mind. And its incredible loan proposals sug-
gest that it is there —and none too well
hidden either.
* * Yr * *
So the first question for the Farmers’ party
to consider is whether it will take the moral
responsibility of all the old debts by being a
debt-raiser itself; whether it will take all
the disgrace of the business for the joy of
being a fossicker on a nearly-worn-out field;
and whether it will lend its respectability to
cover a policy which is liable to turn out a
gigantic robbery and is intended in many
quarters to do so. Also, it has to consider
whether it will cut its own throat. Either
plain national bankruptcy or repudiation,
which is premeditated bankruptcy, means un-
speakable ruin to those who have anything
of value to lose. It means the smash of
banks, savings banks, insurance societies,
pastoral concerns and sundries, the deprecia-
tion of paper money out of sight, and prob-
ably the predominance of the class which
preaches general confiscation. There are a
few people who are repudiationists by inborn
malignity. There are many who are anti-
repudiationists by principle. And in between
there is a great mass of folk who still be-
lieve in being honest while the debt is £l4O
per head, though not so strongly as when it
was £7O; but who will take the chance of
repudiation, bankruptcy and chaos wdien the
debt Js £2lO or £2BO. per head because that
looks the easiest way out. Laborites of the
Perth Conference school believe in pushing
up the debt at the utmost speed to win over
this class. Other Laborites. as well as
Nationalists of the Holman school, play into
their hands because the spending of loan
money is a simple method, within the men-
tal range of any dolt or loafer, of buying
votes. The new party has time to decide
whether it will also join the Suicide Club
and -be a third member.
Further, if the Farmers’ party wants to
leave the deep indentation of its boot on the
shore of history it will spend at least half
its time in forgetting that it is the Farmers’
party. The glib Freetrader, a portable sort
of foreign person who won't stay through the
great smash, is already telling the agricul-
tural member that his interests lie in duty-
free imports of machinery and clothes and
everything else; in refusing to "bolster up'’
local industries; and in being as a conse-
quence at the mercy of the foreign profiteer
■who pays no taxes here, carries no pro-
portion of the country’s debt, and spends his
40 or 100 per cent, dividends abroad. The
story is the least plausible lie in history, for
no other man is half so much interested in
Protection and the building up of local fac-
tories as the farmer. He can get twice as
much for his surplus products if he can sell
them to an artisan population here instead
of to one in England, for the shipowning
profiteer acquired new ideas in the way of
profiteering during the war and eats up
goods in transit after an alarming fashion.
Also, the farmers’ taxes will be reduced if
the population is doubled by having our
artisans to live here and pay taxes here in-
stead of in England or America or Japan.
If the manufacturing population grows so
large that Australia is short of food and has
to import instead of exporting—so much
the better for the farmer! It is in an under-
stocked market that the producer profits.
In every case it is better for a country to
import wheat than locomotives. Countries
with surplus wheat are poor like India, and
countries with surplus locomotives are rich
like the United States. The Farmers’ party,
in short, has three courses to choose from.
It may join the mad rush of the Loan and
Bankruptcy and Ultimate Repudiation
crowd. It may vote for honesty and solvency
accompanied by a very great increase of
taxation. Or it may vote for scientific Pro-
tection and a great increase of manufac-
turing population, and thus get double the
present ■ revenue without increased taxes.
And there is no fourth way.
“FIAT JUSTITIA RUAT FRENCH.”
Last week “between 15 and 20 Sinn Feiners”
attacked Lord French in Phoenix Park.
The shooting of the “assassins” was, as
usual, rotten. Tlje driver of a car “following
behind” and two policemen were “wounded”:
not dangerously or even seriously—just
wounded. A Sinn Feiner who “had been
drinking in a neighboring public-house” threw
some bombs and was immediately shot dead.
That is the gist of the cable messages on the
subject. For months past inflammatory
news-items have been pouring out of Ire-
land. They have appeared in daily papers
in most parts of the world, and have
naturally been cabled back to the Irish
papers as samples of foreign opinion in the
making. These scare-headings appeared in
Australia last month :
FEARS OF TRAGEDY.
Situation in Ireland Desperate.
Authorities Expect Outbreak.
Bombs From Sumggled Explosives.
And these the month before: —
THE IRISH MENACE.
Greater Outrages Feared.
PhceNix Park May Be Outdone.
In the intervals more or less preposterous
yarns have arrived almost daily. The most
recent described an alleged Sinn Fein attack
on a shooting-party at Lord Inchiquin’s
estate. The assassins opened up on Lord
Inciiiquin’s guests with fowling-pieces (the
deadliest weapons in existence within their
range for precision and killing power),
wounded all of them and hit the nobleman’s
sister three times “in the head and neck.”
There has been but one lonely cable concern-
ing this episode. None of the prominent
persons concerned appears to have died, or
even to have been taken to a hospital; and
no one was arrested. It is evident, in short,
as was suspected at once by most people who
have had experience with shot-guns, that the
story was at least three-parts bunkum. Ladies
don’t walk to their motor-cars after assimila-
ting a charge of shot, whether in the head
or elsewhere.
Nothing is easier, given the necessary
organisation, than to fasten a reputation for
lawlessness on a district, or province, or
nation. Crimes are occurring everywhere
all the time. Mr. llemmerde, K.C., the
Recorder of Liverpool, stated in his court
recently that “dreadful crimes of violence
were rife in the city. Never, in his experi-
ence, had there been a more cynical disre-
gard of the rights of life and property.”
In London “there is an epidemic of sordid
crimes of violence, believed to be an after-
math of the war” (I)aily News) ; while
“thieves have been making enormous profits.
Furs, cloth, cigars and jewels to the value
of hundreds of thousands of pounds have
been stolen during the present year” (Daily
Mail), and the “Big Four” detectives have
been specially detailed to cope with situa-
tion. In America, according to a Sydney
business man, interviewed on his return from
that country by the S. M. Herald
(23/12/T9) : “Strikes, conceived in a revolu-
tionary spirit, are general, and the strike-
leaders have been guilty of offences ranging
from murder to maiming.” Anyone who
took the trouble to cable to London the facts
that in Australia during the past few months
(1) a mad Chinese had been shot dead in
the presence of a cheering Sydney crowd by a
visiting “gun-man,” (2) a band of Mel-
bourne criminals had taken to shooting .each
other freely in the streets, (3) an animal-
maiming outbreak had occurred in Adelaide,
and (4) a fairly successful revolution had
been engineered in the Northern Territory—
anyone who dished up these facts in a pic-
turesque manner for the London press could
produce on the Britishers who read them the
impression that the Commonwealth was pre-
occupied with crime. If to such truths there
were added stirring untruths or half-truths,
the notion would be ereatly strengthened.
The London paners could be relied on lo star
them. Thus the London Daily Telegraph


(15/8/T9) printed this on the authority of
Reuters:—•
Nicholas Anoerides, scoutmaster of the Greek
boy scouts in Aidin, has been brutally murdered by
Turks, together with 20 boy scouts. Before being
put to death, Monsieur Anoerides was subjected to
torture of the most terrible nature, both his eyes
being tom out of the sockets. His 20 brave little
followers perished at his side in a vain attempt to
save their beloved chief.
Investigation proved that there was no such
person as Angerides ; that there had never
been a Boy Scout movement in Aidin; that
in short the whole story was nonsense. Like
many of the Irish yarns, it was retailed
with an object—a political object. The
Toi'y publicity agents specialise in “oht-
rages”—lrish and Turkish, etc. —the trans-
parent aim being to school opinion to the
view that these races are incapable of self-
government, and are only governable by coer-
cion. Louis Tracey, formerly a writer of
shilling shockers, does much of the Irish pub-
licity work —a circumstance which* Austra-
lians might take into consideration in esti-
mating the value of cabled “evidence” on the
subject.
* * * »
The constituencies on the eastern side of
the Irish Channel are sick of the spectacle
of part of Ulster providing rebel armies to
defeat legislation passed by British Parlia-
ments and of the leaders of this portion of
Ireland insulting England’s king—all in the
name of “loyalty.” The Irish Convention,
to which the whole Empire looked as a way
out from an impossible position, was defeated
by the Ulster spokesmen. They objected to
Ireland controlling its own Customs on the
idiotic ground that it might prejudice the
exporting industries of Belfast; and they
objected to the Nationalists’ conciliatory offer
of over-representation for Ulster in an Irish
Parliament on the canting plea that such a
scheme would be “undemocratic.” Apart
from all this, the English are logical-minded
people. They know that they are in a false
position while talking of the beauties of
self-determination in the Balkans, Poland,
and even Palestine, with Ireland under mili-
tary government—Zabernism, as it was called
before the war; Prussianism, as it came to be
known later. They want the disgraceful,
not to say dangerous, old Irish row settled
on any reasonable terms; not only for the
sake of comfort and safety at home, but in
order to save their faces in America and the
Dominions. The Ulster fanatics —many of
whom, like Carson, live permanently in Eng-
land and do not own a stick or stone in
Ireland —are left with only one resource in
face of this tendency. They have to show
that Ireland is a place of madmen and crimi-
nals, or admit with Lloyd George (Feb.,
1918) that “a single Parliament for a
United Ireland is an essential of settlement,”
and with the Times that “the old Union is
doomed.” Hence the propaganda work of"
which Australia has had so many samples
since the new Home Rule Bill, on the lines
of Sir Horace Plunkett’s self-government
scheme, was mooted some months ago. It
is a platitude of mob psychology that if
crime is talked loudly enough there will be
crime. Murder, as. an English judge re-
marked the other day, is catching. It is the
same right down the scale. A band of
masked burglars gets to work: their opera-
tions are sensationally advertised in the
papers: within a short time ill-balanced citi-
zens who otherwise would never have dreamt
of such enterprises are constructing masks
and bursting into strange houses. Even the
fashions in suicide are controlled by pub-
licity : it is lysol one year in Melbourne,
the Gap another year in Sydney. Austra-
lians are not likely to have the remotest sym-
pathy with the Dublin drunk who made such
poor practice with his bombs last week. But
that is not to say that they are so dull as
to fail to see through the tactics which are
deliberately luring such degenerates into the
limelight. Viceroys, presidents, lord lieu-
tenants and kings are always liable to be shot
at by lunatics: it is one of the chances of
the trade. And the more the papers prophesy
or “feature” such crimes the greater the
danger of such folks must become. But it
has nothing whatever to do with the Irish
case.
THE WAR THAT NEVER ENDS.
General Howse, reviewing the medical side
of the Great War on his recent return to
Australia, remarked: —
There is hardly a grown man who within the last
20 years has not lost a relative from typhoid. That
disease was practically wiped out among the mil-
lions of men serving the Allies during the war.
Typhoid was wiped out by prevention—by
inoculating the men and by sterilising the
water which they drank. But the assault
on typhoid was relatively a side-show.
Every other disease was more or less suc-
cessfully attacked by the legions of medicine.
How? By an appreciation on the part of
men like Howse that people have as much
right to be protected from diseases as. they
have to be protected from burglars. By the
accident of warfare which gave such men a
chance to put their theories into practice.
And by organisation. Picture the state of
affairs in the Army during the past five
years if the medical services had been run
on old peace-time lines. The hospitals,
supported chiefly by voluntary effort, would
have had to turn patients from their doors,
periodically, for lack of accommodation; and
they would have had to discharge others
before they were half cured. The staffing
would have been chronically inadequate in
numbers, and the' work patchy—good here,
fair there, hopeless somewhere else. Had
the soldiers been allowed to remain as
ignorant of hygiene as most civilians are;
had no facilities been given them to keep
their clothes and bodies clean; had garbage-
strewn and fly-infested camps been one-tenth
as common on service as dirty dwellings are
in peace; had inoculation not been accepted
by 95 per cent, of the men as a matter of
course (though in law it was no more com-
pulsory in the Army than it is out of it)
had such conditions not existed Australia
might have lost not 60,000 men, but practi-
cally its entire army. # #
The Federal Director of Quarantine caused
a sensation some months ago by publishing
the official A r .D. figures for the A.I.F. They
amounted, during nearly five years (inclusive
of multiple infections) to 55,000. To^ people
who had given the matter no thought—the
people who also fail to realise that priceless
lives arc being sacrificed by the thousand
every year to preventable diseases in the
shape of typhoid, diphtheria, dysentery and,
in the case of children, summer diarrhoea—-it
seemed appalling that such a proportion
should have gone down before these tradi-
tionally .shameful scourges. Many found
it more comfortable to argue that the figures
were wrong. The uproar occurred chiefly
because the public is extraordinarily igno-
rant of the incidence of venereal disease.
People know the cause when they lose a rela-
tion from typhoid. But there is a con-
spiracy of silence about the other horror. Its
ravages may only appear in middle-age in the
form of locomotor-ataxy .or G.P.1., which
suddenly brings a person in apparently per-
fect health to the madhouse. Or the sight
may be affected, or chronic rheumatism may
supervene, or children may be born with
inexplicable mental or physical troubles._ Not
one layman in a hundred dreams of the
origin of these things. One way of getting
the problem into its right perspective is to
remember that General Howse and those
under him attacked venereal diseases on the
same lines as they attacked all other diseases.
They specialised in prevention. Every man
in the A.I.F. had the dangers of infection
dinned into his ears in lectures. In some
units prophylactic outfits were supplied as
early as January, 1915. Nevertheless, before
the'Landing, nearly 1000 men were under
treatment, while 1800 had been sent back. In
France the lectures and warnings were con-
tinued by the regimental m.o.’s; Ilorseferry-
road countenanced the free issue of anti-
V.D. outfits (a step that General Birdwood
had jibbed at in the early days in Egypt) ;
and Miss Ettie Rout, of Maoriland, did
voluntary work on the same lines in Paris.
And yet there were 55,000 infections! The
A.M.O. was able to wipe out typhoid. It
could here get at the drains, so to speak, as
well as at the men. In the case of venereal
disease it was fifty-odd thousand cases to the
bad because it could only get at the men.
This can only mean that the community is
afflicted, and that, whether the country be
at war or not, the same danger exists.
Indeed, if the known case of the soldiers was
bad. the hiddeii plight of the civilians must
be from many points of view infinitely worse.
•* * * *
Is the nation, as it grows more and more
to realise this state of affairs, going to be
satisfied with the old order —with hospitals
which are continually being dragged back-
from the precipice of bankruptcy by the
efforts of young women who rattle collection-
boxes ; with harried lodge-doctors tearing to
the assistance of people who ought not to
have got ill; with surgeons making four- and
even five-figure incomes from operations
which never should have become necessary ;
and with the tremendous waste of time and
effort involved in the whole insane business ?
If the nation is tired of all this economic
loss and personal anguish, a sure way out
presents itself. Disease diminution has been
shown to be practicable. It offers better
chances of success than (say) drink-
prohibition, and there is even more to be
said for it on social and ethical grounds. In
the United Kingdom, when the war situation
was desperate, Lloyd George jettisoned the
Party system. Protesting, almost tearfully,
that' he was “still a Liberal” and always
would be, he threw a number of useless
Liberals overboard and filled their places with
competent members of the other parties. He
even called to his assistance men who were
outside Parliament. If the new National
Government has any imagination it will fol-
low suit. The community is still at war so
far as Disease is concerned; but it is fight-
ing the enemy on out-of-date lines ; and, in
consequence, it is getting worsted —none the
less so because the published casualty lists
are so camouflaged that they convey but half-
truths to the few who study them. A Federal
Health Minister would have wide authority
under the Quarantine pbwers in the Aus-
tralian Constitution. If he were an amateur,
the medical equivalent of a Pearce, he could
do nothing of value with all the will in the
world. But a Howse —whom it is intended
at present to waste on the job of Director-
General of Army Medical,. Services—-would
bring to the campaign on behalf of civilian
health every asset that enabled him to raise
the health-standard of the A.I.F. A gift for
organisation; knowledge; the power of in-
spiring men to work; and five years’ ex-
perience of the best men to choose —he has
all the qualities. The battle is joined.. The
men who are capable of swinging it in the
right direction are waiting to be mobilised.
All that the Government need to do is to
give them the call.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Year in Russia.
The year ended with the star of the Bol-
shevik army in Russia looking up. But it
is a very different army from the original,
with Ensign Krylenko as the elected chief,
and all the officers balloted for by the men,
and a committee meeting to de'cide whether
the regiment should charge or hoist the
white flag or go home. It is a fairly well-
disciplined force now, though not of the
best, reinforced by a high-handed system of
conscription, and driven as hard as its offi-
cers dare to do, though they probably hope
to drive it a lot harder when it has been
flogged into better order. The free and
easy regime of the Grand Dukes degenerated
into chaos at the beginning of the revolu-
tion, but things are stiff and hard now com-
pared with the Grand Duke days. All
casual amateur armies develop the same way
if they don’t go to pieces while still young.
Cromwell turned the mob of “serving men
and decayed tapsters” with_ which the Par-
liament began the war against Charles I.
into the New Model. It was very efficient,
but apart from the right to sing psalms on
all occasions it had mighty little liberty left.
Abraham Lincoln was an apostle of
Liberty, and when he conscripted every man
between 18 and 25 he proceeded to kill about
400 people in New York alone to make the
matter clear. The French republican armies
elected their officers at firsts but they really
began to win when Carnot did the electing.
Later Napoleon elected everybody, includ-
ing himself. The church militant showed
the same sort of record. At first it was
a loose democracy, supervised by unlettered
and enthusiastic fishermen and others, who
even tried an experiment in the community
of goods, every member to put all he had
into the pool. Then Paul, the learned and
masterful outsider, the new man and Phar-
isee and Roman citizen, made himself auto-
crat of the loose and casual movement, took
it out of the hands of the founders, sup-
plied it with a doctrine and a theology,
wrote 14 of the 21 doctrinal books of the
New Testament with his own hand, and put
the church under such strict discipline that
Petek was obliterated out' of the New Testa-
ment in the early part of Acts and never
reappeared. As for the community of goods, it
was off, just as it is in Russia. Bolshevism
may survive by throwing all the principles
it started with overboard, just as Jonah
survived in history by being thrown over-
board. When any son of Liberty isn’t suffi-
ciently subservient to the bosses ho is exe-
cuted as a friend of the old nobility, which
keeps the Bolshevik in his place and the
old nobility also.
New Rates and Old Swindles.
The new schedule of rates on the N. S.
Wales railways is another reminder that
wheat-growing is a pauper industry as
things are now; and if the pauper grows
much bigger his pension may eat up the
land. This is how it works out: —
Rates Per Ton for 500 Miles.
Old rate. New rate. Increase,
s. d. s. d. s. d.
Grain, flour . . 14 2 15 7 1 5
Hay, straw, chaff 16 6 18 2 IS
Coal .. . . 17 7 19 4 19
Miscellaneous —
(1) Ordinary . . 25 5 28 0 2 7
(2) A class . . 45 3 49 9 4 6
(3) B class . . 73 3 80 7 7 4
Greasy wool . . 81 4 89 6 8 2
Scoured wool . . 88 9 97 8 8 11
Miscellaneous —
(4) C class .. 101 10 112 0 10 2
(5) First class .. 126 8 139 4 12 8
(6) Second class 150 7 165 8 15 1
Agricultural produce was formerly con-
veyed by rail at rather less than half the
actual cost of carriage (that is to say, at
less than half the average charge, and the
charge was less than cost, as shown by the
deficit). Now it is apparently to be carried
at about one-third of cost, and if the
industry should increase to twice or three
times its present size without a vastly
enlarged and more accessible local market,
its pension will probably beat the old-age and
invalid pensions and the baby bonus and the
superannuation fund all combined. Yet,
with all this pensioning, there are no mil-
lionaires-that the public knows of among
farmers. The concession, however, only
applies to the “up journey”— i.e., when
wheat is going towards Sydney. If it is
going towards Brisbane, even though Bris-
bane may be its natural port, the charge is
very heavy. If it is going from Tamworth
towards Armidale, to keep the local mills
running during a local scarcity, it is cheaper
for the Armidale mills to close up. It some-
one tried to send wheat in a northerly or
easterly direction and ship a cargo of it
from, say, Grafton or Byron Bay, it would
almost die of expenses on the road. Another
feature of the case is that while scoured wool
is charged over six times as much per mile
as wheat (though it travels longer distances
and thus saves a certain amount of handling
per mile) greasy wool is charged only about
five times as much. This is done to bring
the wool-scouring business to Sydney, and.
incidentally, it brings to Sydney a lot of
earfh which the already too-ho How interior
can ill spare.
' ■ ■
The Exodus of Trained Australians.
Sydney Telegraph the other morning talked
about the lack of highly-skilled men ih
Australia: — /T*
Onoe a corfimunity ’ reached Uj stage. At -Which it
ceases to be, from a peeiyiiATysnofht of view, "worth
while for men of. inventive
or of anv other kind—to exert their ability in it,
thev will cease to do so. If they can find no
opportunities elsewhere,' inosit of.':'them will naturally
tend to slacken in effort. And just in so Aar as
they can find opportunities elsewhere they will take
them. The community will have set up a habit of
stifling or exporting' its brains, and will have be-
come a very good community to get out 0f... - How
many of our young electrical and other engineers
are earning in America salaries they could never
look for here? How many.... ‘
These are heavy words of wisdom. A bor-
rowing and Freetrade or low-tariff com-
munity which imports much, manufactures
little and floats big, costly loans._so that it
may divert labor from honest industry to
the building of railways which will be a drag
on the public purse, is degenerating. it
becomes a nation of importers, counter-
jumpers, wharf-laborers and piek-and-shovel-
lers —supercilious and useless at one end:
at the other aggressive and inclined to
glorify brute or unskilled toil and to preach
the pick-and-shovel oligarchy. Unpacking
and selling imported frippery isn’t a high-
grade man’s work ; nor is dragging the same
about on a wharf; nor is going to Uncle for
money, though borrowing 10 millions may be
doing it on a bigger scale, than taking the
old shirt to the pawnshop ; nor is banging the
desert with a pick and the knowledge that
no good will come of it. As the Telegraph
hints, Australia is in a bad way, and it is
in that way mostly though following the
Telegraph’s rotten policy.
»
“Technical” Education in Victoria.
The inquiry of a trained mau-
A quiet investigation by someone with two eyes
open would probably drag something startling from
that welter of spending, the Victorian technical
schools-cum-vocational training centres. “Inspec-
tions” galore are made now; inspectors are thick
thrpughout all education and repatriation aft’ah--.
But the inspections are all from within. The educa-
tional inspectors are all affected with the Tatis
microbe for fad-subjects; and, of course, they find
everything in the garden lovelj’.
Technical-school principals are taking advantage
to the full of what the gods are sending them out
of the cash which is being lavished on the vocational
training scheme. New buildings are leaping into
being all over the State, and when post-war recon-
struction ceases the principals —for the most part
young doctrinaires pitchforked into their jobs be-
cause they are disciples of the Tatis fad will have
regular little suburbs of buildings in which to play
at technical education.
An easy-going public might well ask to be shown
some results from the years iii which technical edu-
cation has been the vogue. Literally scores of sub-
jects are being taught. Iron, wood, navigation, art,
science, seven sorts of engineering, plumbing, cement
work, fellmongery, bricklaying, irrigation, commerce,
sign-writing, photography, singing, soap-boiling, band
music, painting, architecture, designing, town plan-
ning, wool, wheat, manure, tailoring, explosives,
chemicals —nothing conies amiss to these emporia of
knowledge, and nothing is too great for them to
attempt! It matters not what special course is
desired: where two or three students can be gathered
tog’ether, there, created by a wave of a wand
over some quite ordinary tradesman or amateur of the
town, is an expert instructor found and set down
in the midst of them ! So far, no independent test
has been made to find whether tradesmen of skill
are being turned out; but it is known that one of
the greatest problems of the movement is the “drift”
of students —youths who take a term or a year
of a course and then drift away to an unskilled or
dead-end job spoiled by that little learning which
is so dangerous a thing. Each tech, lias its star-
students —its window display. But what is the
average of proficiency or efficiency? An independent
tribunal of investigation—not another report from
within—would be opportune.
The techs, are run almost wholly by the prin-
cipals. Certainly they have advisory councils —
bodies of well-meaning old gentlemen whose limit
of advice is for the most part to say, “Yes, Mr.
Principal!” to wliat that happy theorist proposes,
and move and second votes of appreciation of his
efforts and the school’s “progress” as seen in its
increasing buildings and swelling grant. There is
also the Head Centre—the Director and his inner
circle of inspectors and backers. They are merely
elder-brothers to the principals, and naturally the
more the principals lean toward the Head the
greater will be the grant and the strength of the
mutual admiration.
Now, superimposed on the original teclis., comes
the vocational stunt, for which thousands of pounds'
worth of costly machinery—some of the best and
most up-to-date in the world, and the envy of prac-
tical commercial and manufacturing men —-is being
imported, and in which thousands of returned sol-
diers are to be engaged in half-year spells in spoil-
ing wood, iron, sheet-metal and cartridge paper learn-
ing to do in blacksmithing, carpentry and sundries
what any way-back cocky does as part of his day’s
job.
Is the whole thing real, and for the betterment
of the soldier and the community; or is it just
fake ?
Dam.
A great dam, a wonderful dam, is begin-
ning at the junction of the Mitta Mitta and
the Murray. It will drown 30,000 acres
of land, but that sort of thing is inevitable.
It is expected that it will employ for seven
years 500 or 600 men, more or less, all paid
out of the most expensive kind of loan money,
which may grow more expensive as time goes
on. In fact, this money may become so expen-
sive as to stop altogether, so that the dam
will be left half-finished and useless, and an
eternal expense, and a dead horse. If the
war should by any chance be renewed, the
breakdown may be regarded as a dead cer-
tainty. But even if it doesn’t break down
this is the very worst sort of time to start
an enterprise which won’t return anything
for at least seven years, and, owing to the
present cost of labor and loans, has a poor
chance of returning much them. At the
end of the period the 500 or 600 roug.i
workers will be turned adrift seven —or per-
haps ten —years older in the aggregate, and
all these years less qualified to learn some
trade which doesn’t require millions of loan
money, which doesn’t stop short when the
loan money gives out or the solitary job is
finished, and which doesn’t require seven—
or maybe ten —years to begin to show re-
turns. * In fact, they will b-e solidified in
the habit of being employed with loan money,
and they will naturally want another dam.
The same number of men employed at mak-
ing woollens, silks, cottons, linens, machin-
ery, ships, etc., might have a life job for
themselves and. their descendants, and get
started much sooner with much less loan
money, and begin to pay dividends in one-
tenth the time, and supply a sure local mar-
ket instead of a precarious foreign one, and
it would be a matter of creating a multitude
of gmall industries instead of one stupen-
dous fishpond so the community wouldn t be
putting so many eggs in one basket. The
Genesis.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Adam and sin,
Let the world begin
On the wish of a morn of gold !
Though the snake creep through,
There are fruits to stew
As sweet as a mouth may hold.
The New Year’s Day
With the sun at play !
Oh, the ashes of hope take fire!
After chaos wild
And a world defiled
They burn to a new desire.
Let there be light!
And in dreaming flight,
Up crystal ways of the air,
We spread our wings
On a wind that sings
O’er the grave of a dead despair.
All things are new.
There is work to do
That, has never been dotie before.
The sun ne’er shone
In the long days gone
On the step of so wide a door.
Shall we fail? Shall we fall?
Shall we hear the call
Of voices that, cry in vain?
Shall we shirk the task
And in shirking ask
For the same chance over again ?
Be it yes or no,
Well, let it be so.
Let us toil, let us sleep; let us wake —
At the dawn of the play
Who shall guess of the day
What the evening and morning make?
Eve and the eel
And the apple to steal
And the bread that was spoilt by the
weevil—
Dare I wish you more
From the New Year’s store
Than a knowledge of good and evil ?
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


cjf,e Centre of
C i t ys_Lil£_dndQ > |
m
f Cv£ "
The Premier Hotel of Australia.
Renovated from Roof to Basement.
NEW FEATURES
Extension of Winter Gar-
den.
New Sixth Floor.
New Fireproof Flat Con-
crete Roof.
New Rooms with Private
B. ths. _
New Furnishings.
SYDNEY
ATTRACTIVE SPECIALTIES
Comfort and Quietness. Every
Convenience and Quick Service.
Automatic Telephones in every
Room. Private Safe Deposit.
Stenographer and Private Office
for use of Guests.
Choice of Rating. Room and
Breakfast, or Full Board.
Meals—ft la Carte or Table d'hote.
Apply Manager.
WHAT WE ADVERTISE WE SUPPLY.
> fA
O
-
HI
r I iff
1
<Cte
“Gd/ustralia"
Y/fnter Garden
thei ' e t is \ loe(1 for an immense
number of men to make softgoods and hard-
fl hV n u° Ved - by the fact that w e are pay-
?l,lces every, year to strangers,
aliens aifd niggers to make these things for
us. Ihe need for a new dam isn’t proved ;
soJr c £ th , e la rentable bill of losses makes
j wonder if there was much im-
mediate need for the laneo dam, about which
there was such a hurricane of applause. This
country s trouble, b.v reason of its great
distance from big foreign markets and the
number of ravening foreign profiteers—ship-
owhers and the like—is that it tries to live
by Selling vegetables abroad at half-price and
oliying fnushed goods at double price
vvith the proceeds. The withdrawal of* able-
bodied men from self-supporting industries
to make dams only accentuates the trouble.
“Housing” in N. S. Wales.
With great elan or great flam or something
of the sort, the first ballot, lottery or gamble
of N. S. Wales Government humpies for the
people was held the other day in Sydney
Town Hall. The gamblers didn’t get the
humpies as prizes—merely the right to rent
them or purchase them and live in them in-
stead of dwelling in trees. So much has
been heard about the Government Housing
Scheme and about the stacks of loan money
,-to be spent on it that many people had the
idea that this was the 21st ballot for 200
palaces rather than the first one for a score
of humble dwellings. There were 353 appli-
cants, so 20 got houses and 333 got “the
hump.” There might have been 3530 appli-
cants, but the other 3177 didn't see fit to
make a show of themselves on such a hope-
less business. If books had been opened on
the event, and Aaron Siiortoods had laid
the winner of the first cottage, more en-
thusiasm might have been evoked. It was a
solemn occasion, like a sacrament or a hang-
ing. The hour selected was noon, so that
the sun might stream down on the proceed-
ings. The Minister for Housing was there
—he gets a big salary for that sort of thing.
Others present were the Under-Secretary for
the Department, the man in charge of the
Housing Branch of the Department, the
Town Clerk and the Lord Mayor. The Arch-
bishop of Canterbury was unavoidably de-
tained, and the Prince of Wales hasn’t
arrived yet. Ten houses were allotted to
people with children and ten to people who
might or might not have children. Three
extra numbers were drawn, and the holders
will have a show if any of the 20 winners
fall down dead with gratitude. Meanwhile
Sydney (702,700 population at the end of
1018) is growing at a rate which calls for
3000 or 4000 new houses per year (five per-
sons per house) to keep pace with the in-
crease alone, and perhaps 50,000 new houses
in one lot to alleviate ancient overcrowding.
Also it wants more houses because worn-out
places are falling down or giving place to
shops. If it takes four great men—mayors
and Ministers and officials—to inaugurate 20
small houses there aren’t enough great men
in Australasia to preside over the opening
of the houses Sydney wants if it
is to live decently and bloat in the
old way and congest as per sample.
There are several reasons for the trouble.
Materials are scarce and dear. There were
706.(539,000 bricks made in the Common-
wealth in 1913 and only 395,735,000 in lux /.
The absence of 311,000.000 bricks accounts
for a lot of things. In N. S. Wales the
number of bricks turned out per worker was
122,000 in 1912 and (with much better
machinery) only 96,000 in 1917 (latest fig-
ures), so there was a very remarkable amourt
of “going slow.” Then wages rose largely,
and brickworks closed, and combines set in.
The price of city land to build on is going
up as it never did before, partly because
there is hardly any settlement except in the
few big cities and partly because there is so
much paper money to gamble with. Nobody
cares much about building houses to rent.
Fair Bents legislation made people uneasy.
Then during the war-time it was almost im-
possible to get rid of a non-paying tenant if
he or she had even a step-uncle at the Front.
Also there is the obloquy of being a land-
lord ; and the stupendously increased cost
of repairs; and the constant increase in
taxes; and the threats of One Big Union-
ists and such (o annex the whole caboodle;
and on top of all why should anyone trouble
about so poor a game as cottage-owning when
the railway-building Governments, being at
their last gasp to keep the boom going, are
offering such incredible prices for loans?
Government scrip is payable, portable, doesn’t
require repair, doesn’t burn to the ground,
never mutters threats on rent day, and has
never yet flitted by the light of the moon.
Banks and other institutions don’t care
to lend on house property because they
have no faith in the land boom. On
top of all other things builders are
scarce as well as bricks —in fact, skilled
artisans of all sorts are none too plentiful,
though the unskilled threaten to make an
unemployed problem. Since 1908 the
amount of labor attracted away from skilled
employment to rough-and-ready loan jobs has
about trebled, and the new pick-and-shovel
generation thus created begins to be a trouble
and a clog on high-class work as well. It is
comforting to know that four large expensive
officials in a vast expensive hall have managed
to make 20 cottages available after months
or years of fuss; but the effect would be much
the same if the whole Parliament had com-
bined to open a hayloft.
Our Friend the New Caliph.
“Henry IIorsecollar” introduces him:—-
Lloyd George has declared that the Sultan of
Turkey must never again be the gatekeeper of
the Dardanelles and the Bosphorus, which means
that the Unspeakable must not only get out of
Constantinople but must retire from the opposite
Asiatic shore. The Sultan’s gatekeeping led to
the downfall of Russia by cutting off its munition
supply, and ruined Serbia by encouraging Bulgaria
to come into the war, and thus it put two Allies
out of action, and was the visible cause why the
war was spread out over two extra years at a
cost of about £25,000,000,000, and it gave the
United States its chance to secure a mortgage on
the whole earth and shift the balance of power
and the course of history. So it is certainly time
the keeper got the sack. His exit may make a
ripple on the surface of Moslemdom; still he isn’t
Commander of the Faithful, and he never was, and
never since the days of Mahmoud 11., who passed
out 80 years ago, has he looked plausibly like the
article. In fact, he is the most brazen and least
convincing Tichborne claimant on earth. Abdul
Hamid and some of his predecessors were addicted
to threatening at a crisis
to proclaim a - Holy War
and let Islam loose. Know-
ing that Islam would sit
tight they never did it.
They didn’t want to re-
veal their injpotence and
burst the bubble.
The Sultan of Constan-
tinople claims to be Com-
mander of the Faithful, and
among the qualifications
he should be a pure Arab
of the Koreish tribe. The
qualification hasn’t been
insisted on ; still, Turk-
ish sultans, and especi-
ally Abdul Hamid, the
prize mad dog of the
race, were over the
odds. They were of no
tribe; they weren’t
Arabs, nor did they
come from near Arabia;
they weren’t even of the
Semitic branch of the
human family, and amid the
welter of harem women
Abdul was accused even of
having an Armenian
THE MAN AND THE PACK.
The N.S.W. State elections are expected about March....A great struggle is impending for the
farmers’ vote.
mother. It is also understood that the Com-
mander must be a warrior and champion,
strong to protect and extend Islam, and when
the Sultans became chronic losers of provinces
and ceased to lead armies they ceased to fill even
the bottom line of the bill. The Persians, a literary
race with brains, reject the Caliph at Constantinople.
The Arabs of Arabia put up with him in a way
pending the appearance of a genuine Pope of Islam
in their own country; that is to say, they -fight
against him like the very Devil. To the Moslems
of India he is a sort of accomplished hut very re-
mote fact, just as the Pontiff at Rome might to
the brown aboriginal Catholic in the Andes. The
Turks and the Arabs of Turkey—those who possess
any education—know him for a grotesque impostor.
But he is A sham Caliph that they own
themselves is better than a real one that someone
else owns.
While the Commander of the Faithful should be
brave, Abdul Hamid’s cowardice was appalling.
He inherited the second- or third-best navy in the
world, but for fear it should turn against him and
bombard his palace he withdrew the crews and let
the ships rot at anchor. Caretakers grew vegetables
on the deck, and the admirals drew their pay
ashore and pursued the female sex for lack of other
occupation. He hardly ventured to see his Turkish
and Arab troops lest they should fire at him, but
surrounded himself-with highly-paid Albanian guards.
He hardly dared to appear in the streets. And when
his spies brought him news that people who could
read were saying he was a dashed poor Caliph he
went janti, and removed from the mosques the in-
scriptions which set forth the duties, qualifications
and glories of the Commander. Then people who
couldn’t read began to inquire what was
in the missing documents, and had the gigvuitic
hoax explained to them.
Probably there would be trouble—certainly there
would be confusion—if the Caliph was disrated and
no successor appointed. But the Allies Have, in
their friend the Sultan of Hedjaz, a promising can-
didate. He is an Arab, and if he isn’t of the right
tribe he can say he is. He represents the race which
invented the Faith, pioneered it in three continents,
and wrote the sacred book. He holds the sacred
city of the religion, and even in their best days the
Turks didn’t always •do that. He is a father of
soldiers and is possibly one himself. He has gained
kudos by putting together a new Mohammedan State
—a very rare thing for a very long time. The
Green Standard of the Prophet could be seized and
given to him, if there is any Glad Green Rag to
give.
Britain and France, the two great Mohammedan
States, have two courses to choose from. One is to
keep on tacitly recognising as genuine Heads of the
Church the useless, venomous family of Tartar degen-
erates which they have humiliated and despoiled, and
thus pose before a large class of their subjects as
hounds who insulted the Pope of Islam and dragged
Islam itself in the mud. Or they may take the bull
by the horns—if he has any—and proclaim them-
sglves the rebuilders of Islam and the restorers of the
spiritual capital to the
Holy City. In so doing
they would take the sceptre
from the worst race Islam
possesses and give it to
the best. The Arabs have
an old-time reputation as
poets, astronomers,
physicians, agriculturists,
scientists, pioneers by land
and sea and inventors of
an order of architecture.
The Turks haven’t a single
gem of literature to their
credit or a single achieve-
ment in art, science,
mechanics or any gentle
occupation. India is one
place where the disestab-
lishment and disendow-
ment of the great impostor
should he popular. Arabs
exist there —in fact, they
find it worth while to pub-
lish newspapers in their
own language; but Turks
are as scarce there as high
principles in a rhinoceros.
Outtrim, “Father” of Vie. Assembly, has
not looked so happy for 20 years as lie did
when both Houses passed the optional vac-
cination clauses inserted in the Health Bill
at bis instigation. The bill, as thus amended,
went through.
At least one of the men who -were whizzed
through England and France with the party
of Australian editors in 1918 has achieved
some sort of fame. The Labor papers
nominated Frank Anstey, who was at the
time in England, having worked his passage
there as a seaman; and he stayed on when
the others came home. The result, a book
Anstey calls “Red Europe,” published in Mel-
bourne, has nowj by notice in the Gazette,
been refused admission to Maoriland.
The whole trouble about Frank Anstey is
that he was born and lived his first few im-
pressionable years in the wrong place. Those
were years of the blackest poverty in Eng-
land : he remembers himself as a kid sleeping
in lanes; and then he got on a boat, landed
at Sydney and. .went wi.th .Ji blackbirder’s
crew to the South Seas. With that sort
of start, in this sort of country, he has been
able to get a seat in the State Assembly and
the House of Reps.; and in this sort of
country the party he belongs to has been in
power six times in the last 14 years. But
he is liable to forget all that, and remember
only the bitterness of his first years.
Lady Aster, the second woman elected to
the British House of Commons (Countess
Marckievicz was the first), is pure, irritating
Yankee. This was in one of her election
speeches:—
It has been said electricity was always there,
but it took Edison to discover it. It is the same
with the hearts of men and women. The good
is always there if only we bring it out.
It didn’t take Edison to discover electricity !
Common Europeans like Volta, Siemens,
Ruhmkorff and a thousand others were har-
nessing and using electricity before Edison
was known, and certain Britishers even sup-
plied the States with cable communication
because they didn’t know how. In fact,
electricity was in its second childhood before
Ed.’s time. However, the U.S. struck the
idea of executing criminals with it, and
that was something.
From a Vic. State Gallery hand :
Just as the Vic. State session was closing it was
whispered in the lobbies that Irvine wasn’t a great
success at doing double duty, and that there would be
no Ministerial weeping or gnashing of teeth if Milner
insisted upon appointing an outsider as Stanley’s suc-
cessor in May. The fact is that Irvine, the old Ice-
berg, is too recent a politician. John Madden w s
10 years out of politics and 13 years out of Minis-
terial office before he became C.J. and wore a cocked
hat. Irvine left the floor of the Reps, to go on
the Bench, and was Excelleneied a few months after-
wards.
“Gallery”: Patrick McMahon Glynn, who
will be missing from the next Federal Par-
liament, will be regretted for qualities that
are more personal than political. One can-
not recall him making a great speech or
demonstrating much political sagacity; in
fact, his greatest merit was a genius for
diplomatic evasion when pressed for infor-
mation. In the House he was a self-effacing,
worried little man with curious lined brows
like an aeroplane map of a railway terminus;
outside he was distinctive on account of his
pigeon-toed creep and a perpetual umbrella.
A learned man in the old-fashioned sense,
his mind was a cemetery of the classics, and
he never missed an opportunity to indulge in
some glorious resurrection. His studious
habits enfeebled his physique, whereat, quit-
ting the pursuit of the hounds to which he
was at one time addicted, he turned to the
bar-bell and the punching-ball, and was a
furtive visitor to the otherwise deserted gym.
in the basement of Federal Parliament
House. One day he was inadvertently locked
in there, and missed a close division.
“Ca. Be.” from one of the Courts:—
Eleven months ago ex-Speaker Cohen was given a
District Court Judgeship by the Holman Government.
The leaders of the N. S. Wales Bar assembled in the
Banco Court and thundered their disapproval. Cohen
was accused of ignorance, inexperience and political
jobbery, and the Government was talked to like an
embezzler. It was announced last week that G. G,'
Wade is returning to N. S. Wales to become, not a.
District, but a Supreme Court Judge. And not a
word from the Bar! Yet Wade’s career as a barris-
ter was little more distinguished than Cohen’s. He
was a Crown Prosecutor, and a good one; but it
is not a job calling for vast ability. If he had
stayed at the Bar, and foregone politics,-
he would, as he was shaping, be obscure
to-day. His judgeship is, to employ Broom-
field’s phrase in reference to Cohen last January,.
“the redemption of a political promise.” But there is
a very good reason, from the public standpoint, why
Wade should not be appointed. His health is notori-
ously bad. He may last on the Bench long enough
to qualify for his pension, but there is no likelihood
of a strenuous working life before him. Wh/ this
invidious silence on the part of the Bar in the cir-
cumstances? Can it be that the Bar is capable of
sacrificing, the interests of the community on the
altar of personal friendship ?
NOW!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now Billy Hughes is back again
To govern us some more,
Let’s dream (and, doubtless, dream in vain)
Of benefits in store;
A tariff bulwark, tall and strong,
A wall without a crack —
Must we await its building long
Now Billy Hughes is back ?
A law to make our paper-pounds
Buy more than now they do,
By bringing within fairplay bounds
The profiteering crew —■
Will that be passed? And will the groans
Of them who get the sack
Be heard from departmental drones
Now Billy Hughes is back?
An angel sent to run the show
No useful aid could lend
To workers who, by going slow,
Expect to gain their end.
AVhilst Labor wars with commonsense
The outlook must be black,
Though Ryan roar in impotence
And Billy Hughes be back.
Though Ryan roar and Billy boil,
AH party strife spells guff
As long as thoughtless sons of toil
Refuse to toil enough ;
For work makes wealth, and strikes come hard
On every Jill and Jack,
No matter whether Ryan’s “starred”
Or Billy Hughes be back.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


[James Edmond and J. B. Dailey, 214 George-
’ and Edrriund Fisher . Old Exchange,
Our Duty in
the Pacific—
If we are to undertake the
development and defence of
the Islands in the Pacific, the
establishment on a firm basis of
THE AUSTRALIAN IRON
AND STEEL INDUSTRY
is an imperative necessity.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The presumption that the Queensland
State rolls were filled a year or two ago with
the names of several thousand persons
named Myth and Walker rests on the sudden
manner in which the State roll became much
more numerous than the Federal Senate roll
—naturally the biggest roll. And the re-
markable way the Ryan crowd can get a big
majority on its State roll and can’t get the
ghost of one on the Federal roll suggests
in whose interests Myth and Walker were
invented. The next matter is to have a
rigid search made for the roll-stuffers and
make it plain to all of them who can be
found that roll-stuffing is an offence as grave
as the corruption of a Parliament. For
if enough of the Myth and Walker families
drift on the roll any gang may keep in
power indefinitely. So roll-stuffing on a
large scale is a polite form of high treason
or usurpation. The idea is to take the power
out of the hands of the people to whom it
belongs and put it in the hands of certain
people backed, not by an army of soldiers,
but an equally serviceable but much more
manageable army of ghosts cheaply recruited
and less calculated to draw attention. Usur-
pation by means of troops is the bluff
strenuous soldier’s device. The same thing
done with names and ghosts is the trick of
the person who wants to avoid risks. It is
nasty and unpicturesque,
Holman having served his turn, the Tory
wing of the Nationalists in N. S. Wales
wants to sweep him right out of office.
Joseph Carruthers is perfectly willing to
supplant him; and to show that he is as
good a man as ever he was ho has given
two or three taking trial spins in the Leg.
Council. However, he wants “assui'ances,”
even more of them than T. J. Ryan asked for
when he decided to break into Federal poli-
tics.
The Australian coal user, who is every-
body, has now three cheerful things to look
forward to. It has been decided by ballot
that the miners want a six-hour day, day
wages and the Qne Big Union. It may be
taken for granted that they want their day
wage to equal the old average contract earn-
ings, so there will be less hours’ work for
the same money. Then the results of the
“darg,” otherwise the go-slow, will be
charged to the employers (that is, the con-
sumers) instead of to the men. And the
policy of the One Big Union being to seize
the mines—not to nationalise them, but to
reserve them for the aristocracy of its own
members —grievances are expected to be as
numerous as the 0.8. U. can make them.
In all the talk of "salary grab” by
politicians, who assert they can’t live on
their present wage, no one has put the really
important point: What are they worth and
how many of them are worth it? In the
last few months of last year Victoria’s five
score of statesmen haggled over less than a
dozen not very important measures, but in
the last few days of the session the same
lot passed a dozen bills that may presently
count for a lot one way or the other. Which
was worth the money—the long, lazy, wasted
months or the hasty, rushing, thoughtless
last few days? Had those Castlemaine
mechanics who built the Dromana’s engines
frittered away the first six months and then
rushed the job through in the last week
what sort of machines? would they have
turned out? And how much would the work-
men have been really worth?
On the voices the Vic. Assembly passed out
an amendment moved by Hannah on the
estimates in favor of an increase of screw
THE ETERNAL PROBLEM.
JOHN BULL ( Proprietor of Bull’s Celebrated Menagerie ): “ What’s the matter with the
Irish Lion this morning? He’s been going on like this for 600 years, but I never
saw him worse. He’s had his breakfast, of course?”
KEEPER: “Oh, yes, sir; splendid feed, sir, and a good drink of water.”
J. BULL: “You can’t account for it, then?”
KEEPER: “Well, sir, I’ve been thinking it over, and it just struck me that maybe he
scants to get out.”
for members. It is known that 40 out of the
65 members of the House are willing to sup-
port a rise of £lOO on the present £3OO a
year; but Lawson’s Government, with the
Age showing its teeth, refuses to budge until
there is a specific reference to the electors.
Labor members declare that they are “up
against it” on the present pay; and Allan
Cameron probably expressed the real feeling
of a score of Liberals when he said that, as
he was praying lie would get more money, it
would be hypocritical of him to say he did
not want it. There is of course a lot to be
said against members voting themselves in-
creased pay; but the public interest will not
be served by a cheeseparing policy with re-
gal'd to members’ salaries. The tendency ought
to be towards larger salaries and smaller
Houses. For a second-class man remains a
second-class man even though he be joined
by a dozen others.
A plethoric right-thinking citizen might
have been seen describing catherine-wheels
in St. George’s-terrace, Perth, at the recent
spectacle of over 1000 civil servants march-
ing four abreast towards Parliament House.
It is a long worm that has no turning, and
the red-tape worms of the West turned on
the Government, after it had repeatedly denied
them annual increments and yet fathered a
bill to give members of Parliament a 33 per
cent. rise. Those who downed pens an
hour before knock-off time included some
heads of departments, w’ho marched with the
lesser lights to put the hard word on Premier
Mitchell. The Premier mildly reproved the
proeeshers for robbing the country of some
thousand hours of sweat and declined to be
intimidated. All the same, the Government
speedily announced increases and bonuses
for the lower-paid officers. Its proposals
were rejected, however, and the service is
talking strike. And the right-thinking citi-
zen aforesaid is turning catherine-wheels
more furiously than ever.
The change in the system of voting in
N. S. Wales is perturbing members, and the
old pack is trying to shuffle itself to meet
the requirements of the new game. O’Brien,
who represents Annandale, has managed to
secure selection for Murray; and even
Cochran, member for “the Rocks,” whose
hold on Darling Harbor looked good fin-
life, has decided that he would do better
afield. Even if three electorates which be-
come amalgamated were solid Labor con-
stituencies, one of the Labor men is likely
to go out under the new system to make a
place for the minority representative; and
in strong Nationalist constituencies the
same principle will work in favor of Labor
candidates. Hence some of the wise heads
are looking for rosy chances in districts
which they used to regard as enemy camps.
It is better to be a minority representative
than a pricked bladder.
On September 30 last the population of
N. S. Wales was only 16,000 short of its
second million; and with big returns of sol-
diers and the natural increase, Ma’s family
must by December 31 have been 6n the second
million mark. And with the unnatural in-
crease in the city areas, and the tendency of
most of the returning men to remain in
Sydney, the metropolis must hold at least
three-quarters of one of the millions. To
readjust the balance the State Government
proposes to start another “vigorous immigra-
tion policy,” selecting immigrants who are
prepared to go on the land. But, by old
experience, the farmer from Poplar usually
refuses to go on the land when he gets here,
or, if he does, being unacquainted with Aus-
tralian farming conditions, lie is quickly
beaten ; so that very little improvement can
be expected from that. The point that poli-
ticians overlook is that it is not the fact that
a large proportion of the population are town-
dwellers that is bad. If they were not all
huddled together in one spot, where then-
main activities consist of handling the goods
produced by other citizens, the town-dwellers
would not only be as fine an asset as any.
but a home market for the country-mans
goods. And Heaven knows that, apart from
better seasons, the country-man wants
nothing worse than he wants a home market.
After a sultry session, from which he
emerged with a reputation rather enhanced,
Lawson got into recess for six months. He
put through most of his big measures, in-
cluding the Health, Electricity, Factories.
Profiteering. Six O’Clock Pub-Closing and
Railway Wages Board Bills. He had to
jettison the Juries (Prevention of Squaring)
Bill. Just before the curtain was rung
down the Uppah House was praised by
Labor members for being sanely radical in
relation to a Local Government Bill, and
blamed for its incurable conservatism in
loading up the Nurses Bill with an impos-
sible money clause. Local Government.
Juries and Nurses Bills were all butchered
to make a legislators’ holiday, and the Hous-
ing Bill was left on the doorstep half-dressed.
The annual report on insanity in Vic-
toria is another call to the community to
deal vigorously with V.D. The registered
number of lunatics in the State is about
0000. Of the adu ? t epileptics 67 per cent,
show .syphilitic changes, and of idiot epileptics
83 per cent, reveal similar symptoms. Out of
40 cases of dementia prwcox recently ex-
amined there were 36 who were victims
of syphilis. And the medical statistician
figures out that 2000 fresh cases of syphilis
are added to the Victorian score every year!
This is part, of the ugly truth of which, in
the interests of public morality and the
vague cause of “delicacy,” we are asked to
keep the rising generation of hot-blooded
lads and maidens beautifully ignorant.
As long as the air was charged with the
guff of party strife a candidate could pre-
tend to assume that conscriptionists and pro-
fiteers were peas from the same pod, and all
the country’s hopes of reduced prices for
commodities were centred in Ryan. Now
the elections are over it is time for the alle-
gation of contending factionists to be weighed-
in the balance and found bunkum. Nine
out of ten ordinarily-decent citizens are
potential profiteers. Wholesale and retail
traders may become somewhat more con-
sistently selfish (through force of circum-
stances) than a body of unionist workers
whose job gives them a whip-hand over the
community, but an unjustifiable rise in the
price of tinned tongues proceeds from the
same fault in human nature as a tyrannical
strike of workers at a time when their labor
is most essential to the country’s progress.
It was lately decided that steamers of
the regular lines should cease to call at
Townsville, that being the centre of strikes
and “go-slowism,” and it being hardly worth
while sending boats to a place where the
wharf-laborers simply “take a lunar” at
them. At about the same time and for
much the same reason J. Bull demanded
something very near 61 p.c. for a two-
million Queensland loan. A chronic semi-
insurrectionary country should begin by
building or buying its own ships and by
otherwise getting to work for its own sup-
port. When it asserts itself by doing less
work than usual and becoming more and
more dependent on the bloated capitalist,
it has to pay extra for the accommodation
to make up for the extra shakiness of the
security. Premier Lilley, of Queensland,
also had a _ disagreement with the shipping
capitalists in the long ago; but he didn’t
go §low. In fact, he went so fast at organ-
ising a State-owned shipping business with
vessels built in Australia that the enemy
climbed down.
It is reckoned that the old shindy with
the Central Wool Committee which shut
down the works of the Colonial Combing
and Spinning Co. a year or two ago has
V fa M.v reliable profit of
±2,UUU,OUO. 4he co. being one which manu-
factured things, it probably got little sym-
pathy from the committee ; and being sus-
pected of making 100 or 200 per cent, profits
got little sympathy from the Trades Hall.
Still, as it made all, or nearly all, its
profits_ out of foreigners and spent them
here, it was a refreshing change. Mostlv
profits are made out of us and spent bv
foreigners.
The 28 State Frighters of the Vic. As-
sembly who manifestoed the people just be-
fore the elections are feeling uncomfortable
now that they see how the people of their
own Btate ignored their injunctions and gave
thumping majorities for the Constitutional
changes proposed by Hughes. Lawson’s team
had its ear closer to the ground when it re-
commended the electors to grant the powers.
declined to have anythin* to do with
the 28. He preferred to pull with the A.N.A
for the amendments.
THE NEW WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In tram and train they count the votes,
.4.? keen as hounds upon the trail;
The last return the last bore quotes,
Then starts again and, counting, notes
That Jones is almost sure to fail.
The second preference and the first
Jostle together up and down;
The puzzle of the tale accursed
Darkens the dreary uay to town.
Once an election stormed and made
The sudden clamor of a day.
Smith licked old Brown. When that was said
All mists and doubts were cleared away.
But now the wriggling figures turn
And twist for weeks this way and that
Till every patriot wants to burn
The world and jump upon his hat.
But late the politician stood
Content behind the battle-guns;
His job was merely to be rude
To the far Kaiser and his Huns.
He rested Well for many days,
The nation merely marking time;
But feared the wrath that yet might blaze
From voters holding sloth a crime.
Now all is well. No side amounts
In politics to more than pins.
The argument about the counts
Has made a haze o’er party sins.
Not measures matter nor the man;
The figures only fill the stage,
For this day week the “also ran”
Has pride of place upon the page.
Most seats are cleared, but some remain;
The Senate still is in the stew.
Each day the zealous counters strain
Their whiskers and begin anew.
The ring-a-ring-a-rosy touch
Goes to the tune of 3,4, 5
And serious statesmen, resting much,
On simple mathematics thrive.
Ho! Bring us lemon-tinted wine
In inspiration’s buckets deep!
Let us develop this great line
That all reform may sink to sleep.
Finance me, every profiteer,
Let proud importers mutter “Bah!”
At last the nation’s course is clear—
We’ll vote it out by Algebra!
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


Look here, ol’ fellow, don’t you
make any stoopid New Year res’lutions.
I knew a chap who did—-same as «t
(night be you
And he hurried off home.
The railway-porter told him his
calf had escaped;
the parson said the calf got
jjut when the gate was smashed;
And the "Constable added that
the gate was smashed when the
horse, bolted.:
Next the butcher told him that
the horse bolted when the house
was burned;
And his neighbor said that the house
was burned through his mother-in-law
upsetting a lamp when she died of
jhock*
r *‘What shocked her, Mary?” he
asked the faithful retainer. “ 'Twas
perhaps the missus eloping with the
jjQstman,” replied the final comforter:
THE DREADFUL RISKS OF GOOD RESOLUTIONS.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
BHAS
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms —
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products —
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tarifif of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. .7. SMTTH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobol
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Qelignil:e
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Moderate Charges.
Economical Management.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE Company (Ltd.)
Specially Qualified by Act of Parliament to act as
TRUSTEE, EXECUTOR, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY
UNDER POWER, AGENT, ETC.
TRUST FUNDS UNDER THiE COMPANY’S CONTROL EXCEED £15,000,000.
Booklet on Application. Undoubted Security.
33 to 39 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
It. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
R. L. MASSIE, Secretary.
A Safe Investment, or money returned if better value can be obtained elsewhere—the “PAVILION,”
0 * rV '• »
Sydney s Restaurant de luxe, Circular Quay.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Colonial Mutual Fire Insurance
Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1906 .. £45,886 201p.c.=£20,500 £25,386 £110,582
1907 .. 31,575 20* „ „ 20,500 11,072 121,654
1908 .. 35,413 20J „ „ 20,500 14,913 136,667
1909 . . 37,960 21 „ „ 21,000 16,960 153,527
1910 . . 52,500 21 „ „ 21,000 31,500 185,027
1911 .. 49,022 12 p.c. = 24,001 25,021 110,048
£lOO,OOO Reserves transferred to Capital.. 85,027
1912 .. 4.2,123 12 „ „ 24,001 18,122 128,170
1913 . . i 8,516 12 „ „ 24,001 24,515 152,685
1914 .. 39,466 12 „ „ 24,001 15,465 168,150
1915 . . 45,155 17 „ „ 34,001 11,154 179,304
£100,003 Reserves transferred to Capital.. 79,301
1916 .. 46,758 12 p.c. = 30,000 16,758 96,059
1917 . . 47,918 10 „ „ 30,000 17,918 113,"977
1918 .., 52,540 15 „ „ 45,001- 7,545 121,522
1919 . . 40,204 10 „ „ 30,001 10,203 131,725
The Colonial Mutual Fire got into business
41 years ago, and though it is doing very
well it lacks the punch of some other Aus-
tralian offices. While the latter have rapidly
built up their connections, the Colonial
Mutual is handling less insurances than in
1913—at any rate, it is earning leas pre-
miums—and even as far back as 13 years
ago it was showing better net profits. With
one exception the latest profits are the poor-
est for the past 10 years, though £2OOO re-
cently voted to the staff provident fund must
not be overlooked. Possibly old shareholders
are well satisfied in view of the very hand-
some return which the present 10 p.c. rate
of dividend gives them. Nevertheless, if the
co. does not get a move on, sooner or later
they may be casting envious eyes at other
offices which are more pushful.
Here is the Colonial Mutual’s underwriting
record over many years;—
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £61,683 £29,526 £24,433 47.9 p.c. 39.6 p.c.
1900.. 95,254 49,101 32,113 51.5 „ 33.7 „
1905.. 134,748 60,632 54,911 45.0 „ 40.8 „
1910.. 176,949 66,079 69,661 37.3 „ 39.3 ~
1914.. 210,738 98,951 87,681 46.9 „ 41.6 „
1915.. 210.313 90,694 86,626 43.1 „ 41.1 „
1916.. 213,963 93,852 90,365 43.8 „ 42.2 „
1917.. 199,941 81,387 89,888 40.7 „ 45.0 „
1918.. 202,655 74,879 91,283 36.9 „ 45.0 „
1919.. 202,486 87,481 94,380 43.2 „ 46.6 „
Judging by the movements of the figures in
the first column the management appai‘ently
did not trouble much about chasing war-risk
business, but in view of the heavy stocks
held by merchants and others during the
early part of the past year the volume of net
premium income is disappointing. It is the
more disappointing because of the higher ex-
pense rate. It now costs £5 p.c. more than
it did five years ago to handle a smaller
volume of business. As to loss experi-
ence, last year was not at all bad; for
though N. S. Wales fires made a heavy call
on funds, there have been many worse years
in the aggregate. After meeting losses and
expenses there remained an underwriting
surplus of only 10.2 p.c. of net premiums ;
and the whole of this surplus and over half
of the £21,581 interest earnings were re-
quired to meet the 10 p.c. dividend.
There is no reason why this co. should
steer itself into back-waters again. After
getting past its early' struggles safely, for
some years it forged ahead, practically doub-
ling its net premium income each decade.
It is established in all States, and is in a
position to go on extending its opera-
tions. At Sept. 30 paid capital was
£300,008, and reserves, after paying
current dividends, £131,725. These funds
of £431,725 were equal to 213 p.c.
of last year’s net premiums; and since
150 p.c. is regarded as about the minimum
of safety, the Colonial Mutual has a margin
which will permit of additional new busi-
ness being handled without the necessity of
getting in further funds. The Queensland
Insurance Co.’s balance-sheets show what
can be done. In 1910 that office’s net pre-
mium revenue was £52,700 less than the
Colonial Mutual’s; now it is £170,600 more.
Certainly the Queensland has gone outside
of the Commonwealth for a lot of its busi-
ness, and the Burns-Philp connection no
doubt helped it. Despite the Queensland’s
enlarged field of operations, its business is
costing 10 p.c. less to handle than the
Colonial Mutual’s. Further comparisons be-
tween the two . cos. are interesting. In 1910
the Queensland’s paid capital was £75,000,
and after paying 10 p.c. divs. it was able to
put £15,712 aside for future reference. The
Colonial Mutual at that time had a paid
capital of £lOO,OOO (£37,500 of which repre-
sented transferred reserves) and after dis-
tributing 21 p.c. divs. it had £31,500 left to
store up in reserves. Since then neither co.
has called in a penny of new capital, but the
Queensland’s paid .capital has been built up
to £350,000, on which last year it paid 124
p.c. (£43,750) and had £83,546 left to drop
into reserves. The Colonial Mutual’s capital
is now £300,008, but it had only £10,203 of
surplus profit after distributing 10 p.c. for
the year.
These comparisons are given only for the
purpose of illustrating to insurance investors
the results —or some of the results —of differ-
ent policies adopted by different manage-
ments. Of course, from the policy-holders’
point of view the Colonial Mutual is strong,
as the ratio of funds to risks given above
showed. These funds are more chan ample
to meet losses five times as great as those
experienced last year, apart from the help
which incoming premiums would give. Fur-
ther, the co.’s investments are a good lot: of
the total assets of £482,347* £245,180 is in
public securities, £162,059 in deposits, cash
and due by sundry debtors, £2S,G()2 repre-
sents the book value of premises, £33,666 is
invested in shares in other cos., £12,000 is in
mortgage loams, and the balance of £B4O is
represented by odds and ends of furniture,
etc.
* • * *.
Stanmoke Preserving Co., Dtd., Sydney,
jam manufacturers, fruit preservers, etc.
The co. began in 1914 with a deficit of
£9605, made up of goodwill, £8956, and
preliminary expenses, £649 p
Pref. Ord. To Re-
Dec., Profit. S p.c. 8 p.c. serves. Deficit.
£9006
1914.. £3093 £794 £lOOO £1299 8300
1915.. 4571 1587 1600 1384 6922
1916.. 5390 1000 1600 2190 4732
1917.. 7543 1600 1600 4343 389
Oct., All shares. Reserves.
1918.. 6851 10 p.c. =£4583 2268 1879
1919.. 9997 I2i„ „ 6876 8122 6001
This has been one of the most successful of
the young cos. which have lately attracted
the attention of Sydney investors. Though
now only in its seventh year, it has done so
well, and its future is regarded as so promis-
ing, that 345. is being offered for the £1
shares. The business had been growing
steadily during its eight years’ existence
prior to the pubic co. taking over in 1913,
and when the war started it had been got
into a comfortable position to undertake big
army contracts, so that presently gross
manufacturing profits, after providing' for
depreciation and contingencies, were averag-
ing about £23,000 p.a. The past year’s
operations have been a surprise, for manu-
facturing profit has leaped to £28.699, after
writing TO p.c. off plant and making cuts
for other purposes. Further; the very fine
net profit of £9997, equal to over 18 p.c. on
paid capital, does not include £5OO set aside
for future, taxation or £4OO dropped into a
reserve for bad debts. The extent to which
the co.’s business has expanded is partly
visible in this comparison of the balance-
sheet figures over the past five years;—
1914. 1918. 1919.
Liabilities.. ..£14,883 £32,455 £45,131
Freeholds, etc. .. 17,602 18,651 19,662
Plant, etc. .. 8,491 .9,342 14,278
Stock .. .. 12,655 30,695 11,031
Sundry debtors, etc. 10,154 31,836 68,336
Cash & investments 5,394 11,200
Though paid capital has grown from £39,683
in 1914 to £55,000 at the latest balance,
liabilities have mounted up with greater
rapidity, the increase being almost twice as
large as the additional capital got in. Of
the £45,131 owing at October 31, £16,738
represented money on deposit, £13,219 bank
overdraft and £15.174 trade accounts. Fur-
ther factory extensions having been found
necessary, although during the year £5870
of additions were made to the £B4OB book
value of old plant, the directors have now
rightly decided to get in a further £20,000
of capital.
The five years’ record has been a very
bright one. In 1914 the co. had a surplus
of more or less liquid assets over liabilities
of £7926; at the latest balance, £35,436.
Meantime the book value of fixed assets has
grown by £7847, and that has been after
writing 10 p.c. off plant each year. Deduct-
ing the additional shareholders’ capital got
in. and allowing for the current dividend dis-
tribution, the co. has visibly improved its
position by over £15,500 during the five years
after paying divs. averaging 9$ p.c. p.a.
The co. started with £5956 of its capital
represented by goodwill, but its Articles very
properly restricted the dividend rate to S
p.c. until reserves bad. been accumulated to
cover every penny of this intangible asset,
after which both' classes of shares were
to rank alike. As things turned out this
arrangement has suited the prefs. verywell,
as is evident from the div. rates in which
they have participated during the past two
years, and also because, after the latest dis-
there were net tangible-assets with
a book value of 255. 2d. to represent each of
the 55;000 £1 shares. The market' appraise-
ment of 345. per share (cum. div., equal to
a half-crown addition to the 255. 2d. per
share) makes a liberal allowance for pros-
pective returns.
* * * *
The Drapery and General Import Co.,
of Maoriland, known all through the Shivery
Islands as the D.I.C.: —
Dividends.
, A —Bonus
Pref. ; to Share- Re-
Aug., Profits. 6 p.c. p.c. Ord. holders, serves.
1909. . £15,583 £l-500 6 = £6861 £699 £31,317
1910.. 17,689 7500 6 „ 6'367 781 34.358
1911. . 21,617 7500 7 „ 7438 725 40,312
1912.. 20,994 7500 7 „ 7516 791 45,499
. Premiums on new shares, £1573 .. 47,072
1913.. 24,357 7500 7 = 7701 889 55,339
Premiums on new shares, £126 . . 55,465
1914.. 24,251 7500 7 = 8146 1010 63,060
Premiums bn new' shares, £lO .. 63,070
1915. . 21,295 7500 7= " 8173 923 67,769
1916.. 24,645 7500 7 „ 8177 877 75,860
1917.. 21,589 7500 7 „ 8182 902 80,865
Premiums on new shares, £373 .. 81,238
1918.. 22,884 7500 8 = 9357 922 86,343
Premiums on new shares, £52 .. 86,395
1919.. 30,853 7500 10 = 11,708 1000 97,040
The D.I.C. had a great time during the past
12 months. Maoriland has been feeling very
prosperous; so, despite high prices, this
35-year-old co., which operates in Welling-
ton, Christchurch and Dunedin, had no dif-
ficulty in unloading its; heavy stocks, and the
record profit shown in the last line was the
result. After paying G p.c. to the prefs. and.
apparently providing liberally for the depre-
ciation of fixed assets the profit available for
the ordinaries represented almost 20 p.c. of
their paid capital. So the cautious Dunedin
Board reckons it good enough to lift the
dividend rate to 10 p.c. for the first time.
Since shareholders also get a bonus of 2|
p.c. on the amount of their purchases (the
£lOOO shown in the table is merely a guess)
they are doing very well. They certainly
deserved something more than 8 p.c., for
they patiently accepted only 7 p.c. while
substantial reserves were' being built up.
During the 10 ; years to 1918 they were
content to receive £77,418 in dividends
while, apart . from new share premiums,
nearly £54,000 was stored up in visible re-
serves. The fruits of this conservative policy
are now ripening.
The balance-sheet figires over the past 10
years have moved in this way:— ■
,1909. 1914. 1918. 1919.
Pref. capital. . £125,000 £125;000 £125,000 £125,000
Ord. capital.. 106,085 116,708 . 116,973 117,553
Liabilities .. 109,467 66,002 92,907 70,858
Stocks.. ...if 144,709 122,754 206,6'21 190,995
Book debts .. 62,594 100,997 69,791 71,247
Premises, plant,
etc... .. 178,479 157,532 148,175 137,430
Cash, etc. .. 1,598 2;393' 20,665 27,230
According to those figures the co., after pay-
ing a slightly better rate of dividend, has
during the war years not fattened much
more rapidly than it did in the previous five.
Between 1909 and 1914 the balance-sheets
show a visible improvement of £33.838; for
the five years to August last, £37,544. But,
as the last line but one in the table indicates,
there seems to have been some solid writing
down of premises and plant, and not unlikely
advantage has been taken of recent good
trading surpluses to protect stocks and pro-
vide for doubtful book debts. Anyhow, the
co. has done very well, and at present shows
net assets with a book value of 395. 3d. to
represent each £1 ordinary share.
* * * *
The Langridge Mutual Permanent
Building Society (Melbourne) :
Added
~ Written to Re- Re-’
o6pt., Fronts. Dividends. Off. serves, serves’.
1907.. £4724 41 p.c.= £3323 £1,424 £24,076
1908.. 4838 5 ~ 3667 2.810 22,437
1909.. 6336 5 „ „ 3662 3,462 20,649
1910.. 5643 5 „ 3676 664 £1303 21,952
1911.. 6338 5 „ „ 3681 13,679 - 10,930
1912.. 6815 6 „ ~ 4354 2461 13,391
„„„„ „ Shares forfeited .. 394 13,785
1913.. 7169 6 p.c. = 4348 2821 16.606
1914.. 6940 6 „ „ 4262 2678 19,284
1915.. 6935 8„ „ 5637 1298 20,582
1916.. 6484 8 „ ~ 5593 891 21,473
1917.. 6783 8 „ „ 5530 1253 22,726
1918.. 6598 8 „ „ 6515 1083 23,809
1919.. 6446 8 „ „ 5515 931 24,740
The Langridge is now in its fortieth year;
but though its balance-sheet is fairly ‘clear
of old troubles (only £3378 of foreclosures
remain, and they are probably not all old
ones) it is not making its shareholders fat.
The Langridge was probably the only Mel-
bourne building society which was able to
meet its liabilities and did not have to recon-
struct ; but stored-up profits had to go to fill
holes, and for many years divs. were very
pool-—for a time there were none at all.
Hence, though all assets, with the exception
of £lB9O of foreclosed real estate, are now
giving good returns (interest on average ad-
vances over the past 12 months worked out
'at 'Bl :■ p.C.),' reserves are' small compared
With capital. Still, everything seems to be
moving in the right direction: on total funds
last year’s net profit was equal to just under
7 p.fc. Since the beginning of the war the
management has not been rushing new
business, and advances are still less than
they were five years ago. This comparison
shows the balance-sheet movements over a
number of years :
Deposits, Fore- Other
etc. Advances, closures. Assets.
1905. . £12,229 £59,172 £54,245 £3678
1910.. 21,351 96,143 24,997 Nil
1914.. 26,826 115,745 3,996 , Nil
1915.. 21,402 103,022 3,962 9139
1916.. 20,229 110,235 3,929 1012
1917.. 18,987 108,332 3,929 1839
1918.. 15,545 99,829 3,970 7941
1919.. 18,351 105,956 . 8,378 6144
At the 1914 balance the co % had no cash
assets; but now £6060 is in War Loan. On
the other side liabilities have been reduced
by £8475, deposits being £7256 less. The
position from the point of view of creditors
is very easy ; to meet the £12,291 of liabili-
ties not covered by' liquid assets there are
advances with a book value of £105,956,
besides other assets. Thus the Langridge is
in a good position to seek more outside
money when it feels inclined to build up its
mortgage business again.
* * * *
The Westbalian Trustee, Executor
and Agency Co. (Perth) :
' Dividends arid Written To Re- Re-
! Profits. Di vidend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Apl., 1912. .£1691 28 p.c.= £1628 £63 £14,144
Oct., 1912.. 1461 18* „ „ 1155 306 14,450
Apl., 1913.. 1888 26s „„ 16S0 £219 14,439
Oct., 1913. . 1757 17i„ „ 1150 607 15,046
■Apl., 1914.. 1587 „ ~ 1650 ' 14,983
0ct.,1914.. 881 10 „„ 700 181 15,164
Apl., 1915.. 1267 10 „ „ 700 567 15,731
Oct. w 1915. . 1573 10 „., 700 878 16,604
Apl.j 1916. . 1698 24* ~',,.1700 16.602
0ct.,(1910.. 1102 10 „ 750 352 16,954
Apl.,11917. . 1721 23&„„ 1750 **- 16,925
0ct.,‘1917.. 2047 10 „ „ SOO 1247 18,172
Ap1.,(1918.. 2043 22£„„ 1800 243 18,415
0ct.,i1918.. 2098 10 „ „ 850 77 1171 19,586
Ap1.,,'1919.. 1426 2lf „ „ 1850 19,162
0ct.,11919.. 2260 21 „„ 1900 360 19,622
A comfortable little business this, with good
pickings iin it for shareholders. The erratic
dividend rates shown above are due to the
unusual procedure the directors adopt in
building up capital. Every alternate half-
year lately a Is. per share bonus has been
distributed in addition to the usual 10 p.c.
div., but this bonus has immediately gone
back in a call. Though a Is. bonus was
handed out and a call made for a similar
amount -six months ago, for the latest half
another 1 Is. bonus is being distributed, but
the directors’ report makes no mention of a
call. Presumably, then, the 21 p.c. p.a. div.
rate represents the actual cash return to
shareholders, and if that is so The Bulletin
feels i m polled to remark that shareholders
are taking too great a bite, the margin
between* profits and div. being equal to only
2 p.c. jp.a. on paid capital. The pass-
ing out) of bonus shares is of little con-
cern to «cliefits, for the money remains in the
business for their protection; but it is a
different matter when the money goes right
out. Sfcai, during the past 10 years funds
have beejn built up very well. At October
31, 1909, paid capital was £lO,OOO, and there
were r eserves of £12,533 —£22,533 of readily-
availablie funds to protect £1,404,818 of
trusts (against misappropriation or foolish
mistakes on the part of employees. Now
the v;ilue of estates administered is given
as £2.440,250; and funds have expanded to
£39,42p, paid capital having increased 1 by
£Booojfrom calls paid out of special bonuses.
This ’ftsis made the 20,000 £2 10s. shares paid
to so apart from the £39.422 of funds
within (easy reach, there is a further £32,000
of capital callable if required. The private
execustcur or trustee who offers to put up such
a borsd to be of good behavior and not to err
in this reading of his instructions has never
yet l»eeu sighted.
* * * *
The ißank of Adelaide is strengthening its
Melbourne interests by taking over the live
business and the premises of the Australian
Deposit and Mortgage Bank, a boom-time
derelict which was forced into a couple of re-
constructions, capital being reduced in 1905
from £913,085 to £198,935, the £5 ordinaries
being written down to Is. The precise pur-
chase figures are not available, but from the
sale of a i (sets apart from unsold properties,
shares, debentures and inscribed stock, and
the taking' over by the Bank of Adelaide of
all liabilities to depositors, etc., and the final
realisation of the other assets, the Australian
Deposit amd Mortgage directors anticipate
being able to pay off the 111,731 30s. prefs.,
leaving sufficient to give the 116,000 ss. de-
ferred pretfs. 30s. per share and ultimately
return 6s. per share to the 68,116 Is. ordi-
naries. Shareholders in the derelict readily
asrre-ed to sell. In future in Melbourne the
Bank of Adelaide will hang out its sign on
the old A. D. and M. Co.’s Collins-street
premises.


Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit M«S2.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WO*.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
MLGETY 8 CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
The Pacific Cable Board
REST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America, to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are. accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Mondav morning.
TARIFF FER WORD “via PACIFIC."
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/-
N' ew Zealand.. 4 Jd.
1/6
/ 9cL (minimum
115/-, 20 words)
Canada
2/4
1/2
7d. (minimum
11/8,20 words)
..2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
{7d. (minimum
1.1/8,20 words)
Week-end Service with the United Kingdom
and U.B.A. has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, 'Brazil, Chili and Beni. West
Indies. Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Herniations mnv be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD.
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Quern's House, Queen St, Melbourne. Tel. -ioB£.
.1. MH.WV'tn In ■' •' : "e.
- 77 Pitt Street. SYDNEY. ~
The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within the reach
of every motorist. The G.K. Mercury Arc Battery
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere trifle compared with the
convenience and econom.v of home charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efficiency of a battery, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney ; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
Make the water supply for your stock safe. Lse
Aluminoferrie in the proportion of lib. to two to
three thousand gallons of the most turbid water. In
about three hours all the sediment, mud or fine veg-
etable matter will be precipitated to the bottom, leav-
ing the water crystal clear and pure. Aluminoferrie
is quite harmless and has no deleterious effect on
the water whatever. Sold by storekeepers every-
where. William Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth.— Advt. [2
* * * *
For grinding all classes of material in Ball Mills
and Tube Mills it is necessary to have a suitable
grinding medium. The mines in West'Australia,
also numerous cement plants, are using balls of forged
tyre steel, and find that they give excellent results.
These balls may be obtained in various sizes from
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of Melbourne, who
have put *n a special plant for forging them, and
can give delivery' of most sizes from stock. This
company also manufactures forged steel shoes and
dies for battery work.— Advt. [3
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.—Letter received from
Elmore Waterworks Trust, Elmore, 28th February,
1919: "Re yours of the 19th instant, in regard to
pipes supplied to this Trust. The pipes have been
and are still in every way satisfactory, and are quite
suitable for our requirements. The cost of mainte-
nance during the six years of service has been nil. If
we were putting in any further pipe lines, your firm
would certainly be favored with our orders. (Sgd.)
S. Southam, Secretary.” Send for our illustrated
catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company Ltd,
(II.0.), Burns Bay Road, Longueville, N.S.W. Con-
tractors to all State Governments. —Advt.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney', obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 6035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. (London) ; Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work; advised; railway work.
00 Queen-street, Melbourne.— Advt.
# * * *
In common with the general progress in engineer-
ing, marked improvements have recently been made
in the design of steam engines. A patented design
of “Uniflow” Steam Engine is now being made by
Messrs. Robey and Co., Ltd., Lincoln, England.
Highest effiicieney and economy of steam con-
sumption is obtained with simplicity of construction
and low upkeep costs, and the results obtained
from this new type of engine have been so marked
as to place the ordinary type of compound engine
quite out of date, the manufacture of which has
been abandoned. Full particulars of the “Robey”
Patent Uniflow Engine can be obtained from the
agents, Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular Quay,
Sydney. Queensland inquiries: The Australian
Machinery Co., 218-220 Mary Street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
* * » *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coliuson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street. Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlah,
Melbourne.”— Advt.
* » • •
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selby & Co..
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt.
Vi-AQEBORNTO
\MB BCNtfO&
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
ACENTS WANTED.
Insure in
T 1“ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
CF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital . 244,396
Paid-up Capital .. 122,000
Income (Cross) 1918 .. 457,852
Established 1910.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. U. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
Try AINSLIE WHISKY
DEWHURST I HALLORAN LTD., Agents,
8 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
As Supplied to Royal Navy.
A. Victor Leggo & Co.
Melbourne —Sydney—Brisbane.
Manufacturers Metallurgists Merchants.
Exporters and Importers.
Specialties: INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS, INDUSTRIAL MINERALS,
ORES, METALS AND RAW MATERIALS.
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Other Goods.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Many B.N.Z. shareholders heaved a sigh
of relief when louseph Ward came a cropper
at the recent Maoriland elections. He had
developed the idea that M.L. should have a
State bank, and decided that the the easiest
way to get one was to buy the B.N.Z.’s
assets. While the B.N.Z. directors were able
to tell shareholders that the proposal “could
not well have been made in a more reason-
able spirit, nor with more consideration for
proprietors’ rights,” they were preparing to
put up a fight against complete acquisition
by the State. But with the principal advo-
cate of the scheme no longer in polities,
presumably the B.N.Z. will now be free to
go on making sweet dividends for its share-
holders, of whom by far the largest is the
State.
British New Guinea Development Co.,
Ltd., the English concern which was formed
10 years ago to cultivate large areas of
Papua and “generally to encourage colonisa-
tion and tropical agriculture,” and has since
become a big factor in the trade of the
Commonwealth’s northern possession, finds
it needs further funds. So far £000,491 of
capital has been sunk in the venture, but
partly for the reason that the co.’s big
store business has to carry larger and more
expensive stocks, but particularly because
“the time has arrived to equip the planta-
tions with the best appliances for harvest-
ing produce on economical lines,” and be-
cause of the necessity for replacing some
of the coastal trading vessels, this capital is
no longer sufficient. So £lOO.OOO of 7 p.c.
first mortgage debentures of £lO each, re-
deemable in 10 years, have been issued,
holders having the right within five years
of converting half their debentures into 7
p.c. participating prefs. (after both classes
of shares have had 7 p.c. remaining profits
are to be divided equally between prefs. and
ordinaries) and the other half into ordi-
naries. The co. has so far not got much
past the development stage w r ith its planta-
tions, but production has worked out this
way, the 1920 figures, of course, being esti-
mates: —
Year to Copra, Rubber,
Januarv,' tons. lb.
1917 . . . . 25 30,164
1918 . . . . 107 54,303
1919 . . . . 194 89,938
1920 . . . . 307 133,000
Net profits for the current year are esti-
mated at about £20,000. equal to about 3
p.c. on paid capital. So far £554,918 has
been spent on 7410 acres under cocoanuts,
1511 acres under Para rubber, 1785 acres
growing sisal hemp, and 330 acres under
Ceara rubber.
* * * *
For many years old Wallaroo and Moonta
regulated wages according to the market price
of copper, and, further, with its “welfare”
efforts, has done more than any other Aus-
tralian mining co. to make its labor team
contented. But new conditions have made
the old system difficult, so on Christmas Eve
the management dropped a new profit-sharing
scheme into the miners’ stocking. The latest
idea is to distribute bonuses calculated on
dividend distributions. If shareholders get
10 p.c. or more in any year the co. undertakes
to set aside an amount equal to one-fifth of
the distributions to be cut up among em-
ployees of six months’ standing in proportion
to their aggregate wages (excluding over-
time earnings). The directors reserve the
right to vary or cancel this bonus scheme
“at their discretion without notice,” which
means that in prosperous times a strike
would mean more than loss of wages. The
value of the bonus concessions to employees
lepends, of course, on the copper market.
Had the scheme operated during the past five
vears. the 20 p.c. on dividend distributions
would have put £72,000 into employees’
pockets.
Eoftus Hills succeeds the late W. H.
Twelvetrees as the Speck’s Government
geologist. Probably the veteran would have
made room for the Launceston native several
years ago had not Hills considered his proper
job was prospecting for Fritzes in France.
Hills’s work is already well known in the
Speck; amongst other things. before signing
on as assistant Govt, geologist, he wmrked
out a magnetic separation process for the
Shepherd and Murphy complex tin ores; but
probably his most widely-known eifort was
his report on the Mt. Read-Rosebery de-
posits. #
George Henderson, electrical engineer, of
Newcastle, and one-time with Howard
Smith's, has discovered the cure' for indus-
trial troubles in the coal-mining industry
and, incidentally, thinks he can deal a death-
blow to present colliery owners. It is all
very simple. Having secured several coal-
bearing areas he is going to attract the best
miners wuth higher wages, and by cutting
out middlemen and hungry shareholders he
reckons (on paper) that he can supply con-
sumers at two-tliirds the present price.
Having got a start on one property, others
are to be opened up. and by gradually cap-
turing miners and consumers the present
owners will be confounded and have to put
up the shutters. Unfortunately, funds win
be necessary; but Capital is to be dispensed
with by inviting consumers to put up some
money on which, in return for cheap coal,
they will be satisfied to accept a very moder-
ate return. Thus a new race of coal-mine
proprietors is to be found which will be
quite willing to risk its money for a mild
interest. What is going to happen when
the' miners decide they want a still larger cut
is not clear; presumably the obliging share-
holding-consumer will readily concede their
demands and foot the bill. And as Hender-
son admits he is not out merely for the
benefit of his health, there is also a new coal
baron in the incubator. However, he has
already started work at the Rathluba
property. East Maitland, and other areas at
Cardiff, Toronto and Port Stephens are
ahead if everybody is as obliging as Hender-
son would like them to be. So far the run
to get out of the cos. which are to be pushed
on the sci'ap-heap isn’t noticeable.
• * * *
Avoca has started sluicing on its Stan-
num (N.S.W.) property, storms having
given it water. The co. has about 200 acres
of sluicing ground worth lflb. per cub. yd.
Higher values are talked about, but the samp-
ling charts do not confirm them. It is fairly
compact ground, necessitating the use of
explosives, and the problem is to get a big
output at low cost. Working faces run up
to 20ft. It is questionable whether the pre-
sent plant will prove nearly equal to require-
ments. A system of deep ploughing was to
have been tried —all the appliances are on
the ground—but it is said to be impractic-
able except at ruinous cost. The weakness
of the plant is in breaking-down power. The
single centrifugal nozzle pump has its limi-
tations. Under ordinary working conditions
on a sluicing field 601 b. is regarded as a high
nozzle pressure; this, or even the usual 401 b.,
is powerful enough in loose sandy drifts such
as exist at Cope’s Creek. But what is wanted
at the Avoca (as at other shows in the dis-
trict) is much higher water-pressure, and this
can be secured only by the use of power-
driven plunger pumps, specially designed to
deal with slimy water and yielding up to
2001 b. effective pressure, or if centrifugals
are to De used they must be of the double-
stage type. Anyhow, until Avoca can devise
some scheme to feed its gravel pump to its
full capacity it will not have much success.
On present indications the eo. will repeat at
Stannum what it did on the Vegetable Creek-
Avoca and tributary leads at Kangaroo Flat:
almost demonstrate that it has a proposition
of big probabilities and then cry halt. The
abandonment of the deep-lead mine is one
of the most inexplicable incidents in the
history of mining in N. S. Wales.
*****
The West is speculating on what pre-
mium Celebration shares will stand at when
put on the market. Of the 35.000 reserved
for private subscription in Australia 25,000
were applied for in Perth in a few hours,
and nearly 10.000 at Ivalgoorlie. The im-
pression is that buyers will be willing to
offer from 255. to 30s. per share. With the
£75,000 set apart for working capital the
co. should be able to do a great deal of
development, as the ground is soft and costs
should be fairly low. An up-to-date treat-
ment plant is already being talked of, but
as there are several available at Ivalgoorlie,
including that on the Perseverance, the co.
may decide to rail its ore over the firewood
co.’s line in preference to installing a mill
on the spot. So far developments on Block
50, on which the Celebration is situated,
has revealed only one mine, but several
leaseholders, including Robinson and Clark,
who have the area to the north of the Cele-
bration, intend to get busy after the holi-
days. Hampton Properties, Ltd., which
holds the freehold of Block 50, is said to
be anxious to meet option-hunters who will
test its reserve blocks on the line of lode
and give it a substantial interest in flotations.
• * • •
From Hampton Plains: Celebration Junc-
tion, next to the Celebration and right on the
line of lode, continues as poor as Lazarus.
The assays, published a few weeks ago,
which knocked the market down, were bad
enough, but those given out since are worse.
One reason assigned for the impoverishment
is that the property is in the midst of a
“geological jumble.” and hopes are enter-
tained that better oi’e will be got at depth.
There is. however, another possible explana-
tion, and that is that, unlike the brook,
shoots of gold don’t go on for ever.
* * * *
Jack Isles, formerly manager of South
Kalgurli, but who for about 12 years has
been controlling base-metal mines in Chile
and tin shows in Northern Nigeria, is back
in Westralia. He is said to have made a
big rise out of Nigerian tin. Herbert J.
Daly, the ex-mining reporter who was the
first to bag the Broken Hill tailings dumps
and projected the Zinc Corporation, was also
a recent arrival. He comes, it is said, in
the interests of Clark and Robinson.
* * * *
At the Hampden-Cloncurry meeting in
Melbourne the other day chairman John
Wharton told shareholders the extent of the
handicap the smelters have had to work
under owing to wage increases granted since
operations re-commenced. On a 600-ton-a-
-month basis the additional wages mean
£23,000 per annum, representing a load of
£3 10s. to be carried by every ton of blister.
Yet the management is not worrying much
about these extra costs, for labor is shaping
better than it has done for many a day. Since
work was re-started 1955 tons blister have
been produced, and from this “satisfactory”
profits are looked for. The Trekelano mine
is the centre of interest so far as develop-
ment is concerned. Work at 500 ft. is not
sufficiently forward to establish definitely
whether the high-grade shoot in the upper
level lives down, though values so far give
every hope.
* * « •
A couple of months ago the Oaks (N.Q.)
decided that it had no chance of making
profits out of its big low-grade deposits un-
less the 10-hd. plant was enlarged. As the
calling power on the 22.566 £1 shares had
been exhausted and prospects of either a
reconstruction or the putting out of the re-
serve shares were not bright, the directors
suggested offering the whole outfit on tribute
for two years to shareholders willing to pro-
vide cash for an extra 5 hd. This additional
plant is now being installed, but the full
15 hd. cannot be put into commission until
the drought breaks. Then the management
has hopes of being able to put through 15,000
tons per annum at practically the same cost
as 10,000 tons were handled by the smaller
plant.
* * * *
Oil is not yet bubbling from the Tan-
tanoola bore of the South Aus. Oil Co.
According to the management this is not
because oil does not exist somewhere in the
south-east of the State, but what chances
the co. has of striking a gusher are im-
peded by the ooze and sand lying above the
big bdlt of shale from 1250 ft. down.
So far £30,000 has been spent on the two
drill-holes—a fact that leads V. J.
Saddler to complain that neither Hughes nor
Peake will back the quest with a subsidy.
Both State and Commonwealth offer a bonus
if oil is got, but Saddler tery fairly claims
that help is needed only while prospecting
is going on, not when oil is gushing.
Of cofirse, the reason is that the geologist
crowd outside Basedow won’t give the co.
a chance. Still, forlorn hopes have often
won against all criticism. The co. is going
to try to shake things up after it has over-
hauled its plant, and proposes to work three
shifts.
* * * *
“Korroroit’’ on Yic. brown coal:—
“Brouhaha,” in discussing the merits of Morwell
and Altona (B. 18/12/’l9), might have referred
particularly to the report of the Electricity Commis-
sioners—a report which, as a leading engineer put
it, “belauds Morwell and belittles Altona.” The
very first comparison made by the Commissioners is
misleading. With the same-size plant it shows
Altona as burning less coal to deliver in Melbourne
the same number of units as from Morwell —seem-
ingly fair, but really delusive. Burning at Altona
the same quantity of coal as at Morwell would
reduce the delivered-at-Melbourne cost to .341 d.
from Altona (as against .361 d. shown), compared
with ,329 d. from Morwell —and this with coal at
2s. 3d. at Morwell against 7s. Id. at Altona. Less
than Gd. per ton on the cost of the Morwell coal
would increase its cost to ,341 d., while Bd. per ton
knocked off the Altona estimated price would bring
it down to .329 d. As to Morwell mining costs, 2s.
24d. was Lindesay Clark’s first estimate on the basis
of £BO,OOO capital outgo. Now, in the Commis-
sioner’s report this capital is increased to £221,000,
the difference in, interest alone adding nearly 6d.
per ton to the price of the coal; yet the Commis-
sioners still reckon costs at only 2s. 3d. per ton.
Altona costs include interest, depreciation, super-
vision, etc., for the whole year, but charged against
an output for 260 days only, though Altona—unlike
Morwell’s open cut, which will have frequent inter-
ruptions owing to bad weather in winter—can be in
full work every working day. Of course this helps
to pile up the estimated costs at Altona, but,
properly applied, Bd. per ton could be knocked
off in one hit. The high costs set down for Altona,
after providing for the most costly up-to-date
machinery and appliances, would be regarded as a
joke by those who really know, if the matter were
not so serious. The Altona estimated capital outgo
is a romance; fancy has played an important part
in building it. The old common or garden method
of mining, etc., would do the work at not much
more than half the cost for half the outlay.
Consider also the light and airy way Mr. Merz’s
cautious support is treated. His very qualified bless-
ing of Morwell damns it, particularly as he lays
great stress on his “fundamental principles” voiced
in a previous report. There he enlarged on the neces-
sity for (1) good foundations, (2) ample water
supply, and (3) nearness to centre of supply. As
to the first essential, the proposed Morwell site is
near the banks of the Latrobe River, just a little
above its ordinary flood level, and the borings show
(Mines Department report) sandy clay, drift and
brown coal down to 110 ft., when sandstone is met
with in some places. The water supply at Morwell
is a feast or a famine, too much at times and too
little at others. Of course, it could be conserved,
but at what cost? The risk of a failure of supply,
owing to distance, to say nothing of the cost of the
difference between 90 miles at Morwell and 10 miles
at Altona, which Merz advises should be modified by
erecting an independent route line, needs only to be
mentioned to be appreciated. Should Mr. Merz’s solid
advice be followed, Morwell costs will be skied, but
those of Altona hardly affected. At Altona there is
a surface foundation of over 40ft. of basalt; for
water, Port Phillip Bay; while it is only about
three miles from the Newport power-station, the
benefits of which Merz advises should be availed of.
When the bill to authorise further large expendi-
ture at Morwell came before the House I do not think
half a dozen members understood the report many
frankly confessed they had not read it; all were
anxious to close the session, they were tired, and
the Ministry insistent. Anyhow, what w ? as halt a
million ?


A noise like b. Hundred Chaff cutters,
a.t\d the Cows apparently afraid
of dczlraci youngj
Bill '3 attention. /rom Crass hoppers,
bnd he sees Kis f\vs\
Aeroplane.
Next Day.
Whai are yer fritterin’ about ere .? t
go and get them Cows in wunsi
The problem of ihc Engine
Selecting) parts.
failure
Ar\ IdcSv -
Sunday morning The rest cf
If>e/amily gone over to Church J
u Right 6•’ let er go V
Alote the split
Prop^ll^.
tk ycz-r wart to jjo han?3irv orv
/or ? Ell show y<zr "
THE INFLUENCE OF ROSS SMITH OUT BACK.


[John Barr and Ernest O’Ferrall,
street, Sydney; and 0. R. Bradish,
Melbourne.]
, 214 George-
Old Exchange,
ABBOTS
LAGER
9’fie‘Beer without
~ a Hival
Aadefrom
Aaflq/fops
ONLY
fci.
m
*'«•:,‘». 'JZH<
JHC
THE DEAF HEAR !
The Joy and Happiness
of perfect hearing are
only appreciated by
those who have lost it.
The
Mears Earphone
makes it yours. / The
Latest Model 96-Tone
Mears Earphone
In the hollow of the
hand or attached to
ear with light head
band.
with its great range of
tone and power, can be regulated by a touch
of the finger to suit the hearing for every
occasion, and for all stages of deafnesS.
The MEARS EARPHONE catches and inten-
sifies even the least whisper, and enables the
deaf to hear lectures, sermons and plays clear-
ly and distinctly. Small, cornpact, and incon-
spicuous. The MEARS EARPHONE is
recommended by leading Aurists, and many
prominent Australian citizens have had the
Mears Earphone in daily use for Seven
Years, with continued satisfaction.
A Lengthy Guarantee with each Instrument
FREE TRIAL I
Call and test it, or write for booklet post frge.
The Mears Earphone Co., Bernard’s-Bldgs.,
Tel. 3916 City. .. 3.B7„,Ggprgg Street, Sydney.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfIINQ ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CHKESEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Edwin Smith —or “E.T.,” as he was
known in his best days—just dead in Adel-
aide at close on 90, was one of the biggest
men that city had produced. For half a cen-
tury he was a force to be reckoned with in
anything that was going on. He sat in .Par-
liament for 35 years, and never lost an
election; office he did not -want, refusing it
often, and only once joining a (notoriously
moribund) Ministry, to please his old friend
John Bray. With hardly the breadth of
grasp for a statesman, lie was at his best
in municipal work. Five times mayor of
suburban Kensington and Norwood, and five
times of Adelaide, he could have had a longer
lease of either seat. He came from Walsall
(Eng.) in 1853 to sell saddlery, but hap-
pened to receive an offer to join a brewer.
Presently he owned the brewery. In 1888
he “retired” —and had been one of the city’s
busiest men ever since. He was on the com-
mittee —generally president—of innumerable
public and charitable bodies, but had a posi-
tive objection to receiving pay. Comfortably
but not grossly rich, he gave money to
everything and everybody on the slightest
provocation. In the ’eighties it was said
that half his fellow members of Parliament
owed him borrowed money. The Jubilee
Exhibition of 1887 stands as his monument ;
the Government of the day weakened on the
movement to hold it, so he stepped in and
ran it on a private-guarantee basis, and it
cost the guarantors not a penny. Of late
years he has been a frail small figure, con-
stant in attendance at his office, at Savings
Bank and A.M.P. Boards and a dozen
others, right up to his final three weeks’ ill-
ness. He made an English trip at 83, and
in general seemed able to defy Time.
The steamer Mackarra, the new A.U.S N.
cargo boat, arrived at Port Adelaide the
other day with a crew such as no other ship
ever had —all the seamen and firemen were
Diggers returning home for discharge. Most
of them had served on vessels before the Hun
taught us Kultur, and rather than come back
on a crowded troopship they got permission
to work their way to Australia. On the
steamer’s arrival
the crowd on
the wharf got a
shock at seeing
an Aussie in
uniform man-
ipulating the
wheel. Most of
the crew wore
some portion of
the - Digger
khaki. In com-
mand was Cap-
tain S. L. Dia-
mond, a 29-
year-old Aus-
tralian, who had
two precarious
years in the
Med iterranean
and Black Sea
as chief officer
of the Indarra.
LIN SHIH-YUAN,
Chinese
Consul
in M.L.
Itoss Smith’s luck gave out as soon as he
was knighted Still it was only an engine
breakdown If he had been made a baronet
he would probably have been killed.
For some years the N. S. Wales Supreme
Court Bench included two old gentlemen
who heard with great difficulty—and one or
two on the lower Bench who listened with
equal difficulty to anything they didn’t want
to hear. Then a law was passed providing
for compulsory retirement at 70 ; and it is
just bad luck"that the first man whose ser-
vices are in consequence lost to the Supreme
Court is one who has kept himself so tit,
physically, that he never was absent a day
from the Bench through ill-health. Besides,
Justice “Dick”, Sly was as fair a man as
ever wore a wig—and as wretched a speaker.
It was of him that a learned brother long
ago said, “Sly’s right, of course; but to save
his life he couldn’t tell you why.”
Just-dead Field-Marshal Sir Evelyn Wood
was the last of the old brigade who won
their way in the (lays of the muzzle-loader
and got the V.C. 60 years ago. Few know
the secret that embittered his life at its
prime. One of his sisters was the Mrs.
O’Shea -who became‘ the friend and after-
wards the mistress of Charles Stewart Parnell,
and thus ruined the cause of Home Rule for
Ireland 30 years ago. Wood bore himself
gallantly through the horrible ordeal, and
the name of the lady was never mentioned
at the mess when he was in command of the
Aldershot Division, save once when he in-
terrupted an ..unlucky subaltern, who was
joking about the matter, with the brief
“That lady is my sister.” The V.C. has
been -won for less courageous acts.
Bill Massey, who has almost swept Joe
Ward and his disciplqs off the face of Maori-
land. is 63, a farmer in a small way near
Auckland and a native of Londonderry (Ire-
land). When he first
became Leader of the
Opposition in Seddon’s
day he had a follow-
ing of about three all
told. At every div-
ision they rose en
masse, solemnly said
“No”' and then got
ready to say “No”
the next time. In
all the long sad years
that have passed since
then Massey has never
been suspected of mak-
ing a joke or seeing
one. But he eats
well and can go to
sleep on the slightest
provocation, and
makes more noise
about a tuppenny
stamp than a hen.
would about a dozen
eggs.;
FRANK MOULDEN.
Adelaide's new
Mayor.
Shannon (second commissioner), T. B.
Molomby (Supt. of Transportation), G.
Higgins (Uni. lecturer on civil engineering),
A. J. Noall (stock and sharebroker) _ and
six or seven other Australians are said to
have applied for the job of Chief Vic. Bail*
way Commissioner (£5OOO a year). Call-
ing for applications is, however, pretty gener-
ally regarded as a farce, “and unless Monash
puts in and the strings are pulled to fax
the billet for him, somebody will be imported.
Two noted Melbourne auctioneers died on
the same day last week. Stratford Strettle
was an English-born boy who entered Mel-
bourne Grammar in its infancy. His father
and he were the first to sell carease meat
by auction in Melbourne —and then he fell
a victim to land-boom speculation. He had
been one of the early _ fathers of trotting
meetings, and was identified with Tom Hay-
don in the management of the Elsternwick
Club in the old days. When the land boom
burst Strettle struggled bravely and met
his heavy liabilities in preference to
wriggling out. The other deceased auc-
tioneer was John Rupert Gordon Nicholson,
who dealt in real estate. He was a son of
one of Melbourne’s earliest police magis-
trates and a fine athlete in his young days.
About ten years ago he was Mayor of
Prahran, and he represented that suburb on
the Board of Works. His was a name that
carried weight.
One old Tasmanian’s send-off to another:
My venerable friend Philip Oakley Fvsh has just
died, and everybody who knew him will be sorry,
for he was a jolly old boy. Born at Highbury, Lon-
don, a few months after the great fire at the Houses
of Parliament, he spent two years in a stockbroker’s
office after leaving school. Next, in 1849, he got a
clerkship in the office of Leader Stevenson, who
afterwards founded the house of L. Stevenson and
Sons in Flinders-lane, Melbourne. (A lot of people
will remember the “siege” ,of Stevenson’s house in
1876. The Steveusons were, charged with evading
Customs duty on gloves, and' they resisted an attempt
of the authorities to inspect their stock. Stevenson
and three of his employees were tried in the Mel-
bourne Criminal Court for resisting the Customs
people, but were acquitted. One of the three em-
ployees became a Minister of the Crown, and another
a Jesuit father.) In 1859 the Stevensons started in
business in Tasmania, and three years later the
business became P. O. Fvsh and Co. P. O. Fyslrs
public life may be said to have begun in 1863, when
he advocated the making of the main line of rail-
way from Launceston to Hobart. In 1865 he sought
a seat in the Leg. Council against James Wilson,
but lost. Soon afterwards he wrested a scat from
John Foster, and thereafter, for over 40 years, he
was one of the little island’s best-known public men
till age sent him into quiet retirement.
S. Aus. supplies two new “local preachers”
to the Federal Parliament —Gabb vice
Glynn, and Norman Makin, pattern-maker
by trade, born at Petersham (N.S.W.), who
has outed the old original Laborite Archi-
bald.
Amid the bitterness of war and the roar
of peace the placid S. M. Herald devoted
a leader (27/12/’l9) to the question of who
wrote Shakspeare’s plays. The Bulletin
offers space for a controversy as to who
wrote Henry Lawson’s poems. It being a
rule that all poems were written by any-
body except the poet himself, this paper
suspects Webster.
Died at South Perth the other day West-
ralia’s best-known Crimean veteran, Harry
Marquand. During that unpleasantness he
was a midshipman on H.M.S. Melbourne,
which carried wounded soldiers from Crimea
to Scutari; and the old chap always credited
his infatuation for Florence Nightingale with
the circumstance that he never married.
He also took a hand in the Maori War, and
was said to be 84 at the end.
Gone to Abraham’s bosom, Judah Myers,
of Wellington (M.L.). Born in London in
the early ’thirties, he was brought to Mel-
bourne as a youngster, and stayed there till
he smelt profits, in the Otago diggings. He
was in Nelson and on the west coast of the
South Island for a while; then. 40 years
ago, he settled in the windy city and founded
a business which never knew when to stop
growing. The best known of his sons is
“Micky,” partner in the law firm of Bell,
Gully and Myers, whose head was Francis
Dillon Bell, an old-time Attorney-General.
The University of Adelaide has given a
Master of Engineering degree—the first in
the State —to E. J. C. Rennie, son of the
Professor of Chemistry there, and grandson
of the Ma State’s old Auditor-General. His
work was. submitted to Prof. Hawkins, of
Brisbane, who called it “a distinct addition
to engineering science.” Another prominent
figure at the “Commem.” was Donald Kerr,
who had earned a doctor’s degree in law,
and can put after his name the odd mix-
ture, M.M., LL.D.
The Freeman’s Journal (Dublin), sup-
pressed the other day because it published an
article which “might cause disaffection
among the police,” was formerly part-owned
by Wilson Gray, who came to Melbourne in
1855 in the ship Ocean Chief, which also
brought Charles Gavan Duffy. Settling in
Victoria he became a notable figure in
political life. He was founder and President
of the Land Convention, an assembly of dele-
gates pledged to “open the lands for the
people.” Later, after the Duffy Land Act
had become law, he went to Maoriland and
died a District Court Judge. Edmund Dwyer
Gray, a well-known Tasmanian journalist, is
a grandson of Sir John Gray, part-proprietor
with Wilson Gray and later sole proprietor.
The Hobart man’s father succeeded Sir John,
and the son was also controller of the paper
before emigrating.
“0.L.” : In Victoria each of the principal
religious stables has one mouth-fighter who
stands out from the rest of the brethren.
Henry Worrall does the whirling for the
Methodists. His specialties are (1) Em-
pire, (2) gambling, (3) der-rink. Pastor
Ruth, of the Baptists, makes a business of
heaping red-hot language around Mannix,
who retaliates by completely ignoring Ruth’s
existence. Larry Rentoul beats the air for
the Scotchbyterians, but he has no special
line of talk, the loquacious old boy being
prepared to burst a few bags of hot air in
the neighborhood of anything that gets his
dander up, from church union to the ill-
treatment of a pal—though he will do more
for a pal than for any other cause. Frank
Lynch, who believes in the right to ring his
church-bell whenever he wants to, is the
Anglican pea-onra-hot-shovel. He is another
one whose motto is “Empire first,” and any
mention of the Red Flag makes him bubble.
Within his own church he spends a lot of
energy in upholding the rites of “high,” re-
gardless of the corns of “low”; and, with it
all, he is a most amiable good-fellow. A
round-table conference of Ruth, Worrall,
Rentoul, Lynch and Mannix, to prepare a
policy for Australia’s future well-being,
would be worth coming to Melbourne for.
Thompson, of Quorn (S.A.), claims an
Australian record. The other day he com-
menced his 19th term as mayor.
“Juice”: Sydney’s earliest successful bal-
loon flight was,' made in. 1871. A balloon,
72-feet high, went up from Victoria Park
and came down near Turramurra two hours
later after rising to a height of 2| miles.
The chief aeronaut had the ominous name
of Gale.
“Hamer”: Percy McDonald, who has got
two years’ gaol from a Sydney Judge for
perjury in the Pie case, discovered a pre-
war method of making a living by getting
lined. He was a street speaker who was fre-
quently prosecuted for obstructing tramc.
As the fines were small and McDonald made
lofty appeals for sympathy, passing the hat
at every meeting to pay his fines, he must
have done pretty
well. A verdict in
a libel action with
costs was too much
to meet; .so he got
out of his trouble by
enlistment. But he
was little inclined
to go to the Front
and had to be car-
ried to the trans-
port which finally
took him. He saw
no action: the
authorities decided
that he was hope-
less as a soldier.
Yet after his return
h e flaunted hi s
badge, and for that
if for no other rea-
son he is just as
well out of the way
until all the genu-
ine returning sol-
diers have got the
benefits to which
they are entitled.
McWHAE. Vic-
torian M.L.C., and
Honorary Minis-
ter.
“Peter”: Sidney B. Myer, mentioned as
purchasing the Nixon Mansion in the divorce
town of Reno, Nevada (B. 11/12/19), is
presumably identical with Sidney Myer, the
industrious genius who conducts a flourish-
ing fluff business in Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne. Allowing 50 per cent, discount tor
Yankee exaggeration, “the largest mercan-
tile establishment in Australia” may pass
as a euphemism for a huge drapery, whilst
there is no doubt that the Melbourne Myer
owns “a controlling interest in a woollen
mill” if not “in other manufacturing plants.”
A while back the big draper bought the
Doveton Woollen Mill in Ballarat North
for about £30,000, and it was understood at
the time that he was extending his activi-
ties to the manufacture of blankets. Pre-
vious to the sale the Doveton Mill had im-
proved its bank account by making excel-
lent khaki for the Defence Department.
Gone at 79, George Ernest Ward, believed
to be the last of the 22 survivors of the
Admella, wrecked off Gape Northumberland
between Adelaide and Melbourne in ’59.
Gordon’s “From the Wreck” tells the story
of his gallop to Mount Gambier for help.
The wreck in two pieces lay on the reef
for a week in full sight of helpless watchers
on the cliffs. The list of drowned totalled 83.
W. O. Archibald, who has gone down fight-
ing for Hindmarsh (S. A.), got in a shot at Higgs
when they were political mates under Andy
Fisher. Higgs had stonewalled the Northern
Territory Bill at every stage, and spoke even
on the third reading. Answering an argu-
ment that the vast empty area might cause
the “teeming millions” of China to sweep down
and take possession, Higgs said, “I tell you,
Mr. Speaker, that the Chinese have no
genius for war.” “I can understand your
fellow-feeling for ’em,” interjected Archibald
' —“like you, they’ve a passion for building
stone walls.”
ABANDONED: GALLIPOLI, DECEMBER, 1915.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was for this the Splendid and the Strong
Poured out their lives as storm-shed water spills
Down barren slopes and laces with its rills
The sullen stones it perishes among.
So to Our Dead these bloody shores belong.
Here, ’mid the thunder-riven Thracian hills,
They leapt, resistless, o’er the sombre sills
Of Death’s grey gates, a grim, sardonic throng.
Nor all the looming terorrs of the Pit
Could quell that wave of heroes, mounting high ;
Though panic called, they had no heed of it,
But reckless strove and, as time came to axe,
Laughed in Hell’s face, and, through her blasting
flame,
Passed, all unwitting, to undying fame.
N.S.W.
J. B. HIGGINSON.
DISHONORS TO THE BRAVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Unto the conqueror of the highest air,
From new horizon to horizon winging ;
Unto the birdman making landfall where
Van Diemen’s Gulf-tides jungleward go swinging".
Give we full guerdon and largesse to-day,
Not the vain compliments that flunkeys pay.
The daring aviator of the mist,
The new Columbus of the clouded skies,
Whose flaxen caravel the stars have kist,
Who by the planets steered his bold emprise-
Fools would reward his courage and his fame
With affixes already linked with shame.
Let titles closed be to men who do,
Or think, or plan, or compass, or endure;
For knighthoods are for sycophants who sue
For vanity and illgot-gains the lure;
For all distinguished criminals, and they
Who bend the pander’s knee by night or day.
Keep these cheap titles for mean little men,
Sir ’Arrys, ’Ectors, ’Oraces and others —
-For the vain insects of the world; and then
For men who are to old Columbus brothers,
Give these the title that is high and sure,
Love that endures for heroes who endure.
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


am
SSi"!
•SHJSV
m
jas^Sl
mmm
mmmm
wMssM i
wmsHB&M
mmmmm
slag
mM.
*s;
1
£9H
M
SiRS
m
SslnsiiSSEusr
gn£
«
ii
ilfcaSi
\
Wj£
maami
V
:3a:**.;*
>
■MKSf
i \\\
wmm.
A u
*!■:»
sffistti;
1
mm
%&336
SHF
assssras
m
iKSE
sew
■—
ißnul
G7^rwr
™.»
wr
£*g
\
uß>S?j£3*
r
'V\-,?-:*{'
M®iii
flflßi
<2S&
StHSWxi
>if; ;rs xV-bm
liS
sifJsi®
SH
m
: 8
s!fi
3WS
!§$
m
HEr
ate
838
a u :
sp&irP\ i
iila\
mi
wmm
PfliSl
/
mmmmmMm
ill
9k!
Ulilßil
m
■ '
SMHHBHi
mmm
nss
SI:iM
iiSgSScS
SMBW
m®Bm
fmm>
aJKI
j :j lEiliKi xi&i2a xai
UPlipi
mmmSSm
m
mmmmmmtm
g&eaS
iiPlwSdii
»sssi*;
«&&
H
Ssn
iiia;:'JM&]
PliiiiPii!
i«?MMaS^S^Hil3i«maaiialEiBaafrjmf
mam®
HHi
Bnkl
iiiiiii
iCHi
.
pWMiPP
:-.v-.-.
rUfirfi:
vm
BBSB&tir '■
fsnpft!
mmm
gag
rlrVTd
V,
,
r
\.
%
ORE than ever—in these days of dearer
clothes —it is important for you to stick
to the staunch, reliable make that
you know. Otherwise you will be risking the
payment of a similar or a higher price for less
quality. The name “Austral” has been built
up into a standard term during many years.
Because the reputation of “Austral” has been
gained by the uniform value and quality of the
clothes, you have learned to look with the utmost
confidence on any garment which bears this
time-honored trade-mark.
M
You can look for everything that is new in the
way of style and fashionable cut in an “Austral”
Sac Suit, Ready-to-wear. But, combined with
this desirable “newness,” you will find all the
old integrity in the materials—all the old skill
and care in the workmanship and finish.
Moreover, thanks to a very wide range of weaves,
patterns and designs, we can please any taste.
A complete stock of sizes and between-sizes
enables us to fit any normally-proportioned man
with the exactness of specially-tailored garments.
“AUSTRAL” Sac Suits
READY-TO-WEAR,
63/-, 75/-, 84/-, 95/-, 105/-, 114/-, 126/-, 135/- to 168/-
A Special Concession of 5 per cent. (1/- in the £) is allowed
Returned Soldiers in Uniform on all Cash Purchases of £5 or over.
ORDERS DELIVERED FREE IN CITY,
SUBURBS AND COUNTRY
484-490
GEORGE STREET
COWING BR“ L™
EVERYTHING FOR MEN'S AND BOYS' WEAR,
Branch Store at 304 GEORGE STREET (near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
3 to 17
ROYAL ARCADE


NEW NOVELTY SHIRTS.
SUMMER SPECIALS AT PEAPES*.
hfd
hfd
“Quietly distinctive” best describes the smart new
shirts quoted here. They are made in the usual Peapes
high quality way—faultless in fit, style and finish.
The bodies and sleeves are fashioned of cool, dependable
white longcloth, while the fronts and soft double cuffs
are of fancy white corded material with triple-stripe
design in Pink, Fawn, Green or Blue.
An exclusive Peapes’ novelty that will wear and launder
excellently.
PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE. PLEASE STATE SIZE.
PEAPES & CO. LTD
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
A CONTRACT IS A CONTRACT
'trade mark
forward.
80
DYES.
THE reputation of our Pyramid Aniline
Colors has been established during a
period when it has not been easy to live
uo to our standards. The quality of our
Pyramid Aniline Colors is as firmly fixed
to-day in the minds of buyers as our slogan
“A Contract is a Contract.”
Everv shipment of our Pyramid Aniline
Colors is tested to see that it conforms to
our standards before it is allowed to go
We will send our complete Dye Catalogue on request.
Specialists in the export of American chemicals.
Importers of raw materials for American industries.
BUSH, BEACH & GENT Inc.,
Maiden Bane, Holbrook Building,
New York, U.S.A. San Francisco.
Cable Address (Both Offices ) "Beaclifred."
iiiiin mini mi Miiiiiniimiin in iiiiiiiiminiiii hi iiHiiiiimiimiiKMii
are
regularly carried out by the “PAVILION,” Sydney's Restaurant de luxe, Circular Quay.
All the best Society “Catering Functions”
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
OF COURSE TIE KNEW THEM.
MOLLY: “Don’t you remember vs, grandpa?”
OLDEST INHABITANT: “Remember you! Why,
yon ain't a bit different to what you
were twenty years ago—your frocks an
curls an ’ all!”
“Tom Noddy” : Amiens wasn't a bad place to
get the taste of the Somme mud off your teeth.
The battalion hadn't seen an estaminet for
two months when the G.O. got a wire from
the A.P.M.. Amiens: “Send escort tor 1 te.
Jones of your unit detained here.” A cor-
poral and three men blithely departed to
collect the truant. A week later the good
word came: “Send escort _ for 1 nvate
Jones and escort detained here. ’ A sergeant
and six men cleaned the mud from their
equipment and sallied forth. After the news
of their arrest had reached the Brigadier, a
committee of padres was appointed to pick
the third escort, and the lambs w r ere returned
to the fold.
* * * *
“Nivius” : The rot spoken by some of our
returned non-combatant colonels is appalling,
and is all the more harmful because men like
Brudenell White are not in a position to con-
tradict their statements publicly. Recently
there was Henley ; now we hear Newmarch
—of the A.M.C., mark you ! —giving his views
on musketry in the S. M. Herald of
20/12/’l9: —■
Fifty per cent of the Ist Division had never fired
out of anything but a miniature rifle before they
landed in Gallipoli.
It is a cert, that Newmarch never sweated
those five dreary miles out over the sand from
Mena to the Roash Hills, where every single
infantryman of the Ist Division fired at least
500 rounds at all ranges from 200 to 1000
yards. That should be enough to silence
Newmarch without adding these facts: —
(1) Before leaving Australia every infantryman
of the Ist Division had considerable practice with
the service rifle on the ranges of the selfsame
National Rifle Assoc, to which Newmarch was speak-
ing.
(2) About 20 per cent, of the men were Imperial
ex-regulars, 40 per cent, members of the C.M.F. or
old militia, and 35 per cent, men who had used
rifles either as members of the N.R.A. or in their
country life, while the remaining 5 per cent, showed
themselves apt pupils—or were transferred to the
A.M.C. before we sailed.
(3) The Ist Division was saved from annihilation
at the Landing and afterwards partly by excellent
marksmanship and partly by something the N.R.A.
can never teach, i.e., fire control and the use of the
rifle. Johnny Turk was the best sniper on earth, but
he lost the belt to the Digger in 48 hours.
(4) If Newmarch’s statement were true, what sort
of reception should Australia give to Birdie and
Monash, and what respect should it have for the dead
Bridges and the living White for daring to allow
us to land in the pitiable condition imagined by this
non-combatant apothecary ?
“Ato”: Victorian Education Department
every year nominates about 30 young teachtrs
for a free course at the Teachers’ College at
the University, and this leads up to Arts
and Science degrees. In 1920 every one
of the young men will be a returned Dig-
ger. With their widened horizon, they are
going to have a great influence on the young
minds in the years to come. Picture a
geography lesson on Belgium given by an
intellectual man who served three or four
years in the trenches around Ypres! I’d like
to be in the class.
* * * *
“0.L.” Melbourne is experiencing a br ! ck
famine. A few weeks ago it was possible
to buy at 48s. per 1000, with de-
livery extra —not less than Bs. per
1000. Now, with plants mostly
booked up six months ahead,
holders of odd supplies are asking
up to £5 per thou., and getting it.
Second-hand bricks and brickbats,
formerly almost valueless except
for filling, are being marketed at
good prices, and house-building
enterprise is dragging along be-
neath a heavy load of discourage-
ment. One effect of the shortage
is that municipal building regula-
tions are no-w full of holes. Though
by-laws provide that no “old"
material is to be used, nobody pays
any attention. The builder just
puts a few new bricks on the out-
side and “works in” his available
rubbish. This state, of affairs
throws into high relief the feet
that some years ago many kilns
were deliberately put out of action,
an “honorable understanding’
being reached between the parties
concerned in the profits. As the
only notable argument nowadays
adduced by the brickmakers to
justify their still-existing “under-
standing” is that only moderate
divvies are paid by the concerns
still working, the time seems ripe
for the production of a complete
set of balance-sheets, so that the
Government may get a correct view
of the position and do what is
necessary to shove production
ahead. The Repatriation Department has
3000-odd unemployed soldiers to “place, and
plenty of them would be quite ready to take
on a steady job at brick-making.
, k * «
“Lex’s"’ plea for temporary hands: —
War has as many aftermaths as the night hath
■eyes, and one of them is divorce. In N. S. Wales
there are about three times as many petitions as
usual. The hardships to which parties, are put in
consequence are many and serious. Hundreds will
have to wait a year or more for relief. Mean-
while evidence is dying, or emigrating, or abscond-
ing, or going to gaol and hence becoming dis-
credited, necessitating the discovery of fresh wit-
nesses or the abandonment of suits. In all those
matters where the husband is in the right he is
being grievously wronged. That is to say, he is
compelled to support his erring wife and pay all
her law costs for an unconscionably long time. The
situation is not conducive to the cause of morality,
or to anything else that is desirable. The sole
reason for the delay in the supplying of justice lies
in the fact that the State Government persists in
trying to battle along with one Judge in divorce.
There has never been a situation where acting-
judges were called for more loudly. One could not
possibly cope with the torrent of work. At least
two should be appointed to assist. It is done in
every other business where an abnormal rush of
business occurs. If it weren’t the customers would
cease to patronise the establishment. But parties
to divorces can’t transfer their custom to another
venue.
THE IMPOSSIBLE.
FIRST GIRLIE : “I like her, somehow, Yesterday at the club she was very outspokeA.”
SECOND DITTO : “I can’t believe it. Who outspoke her?”
“General Practitioner”: When anything
Soes wrong with the electric fittings in a
ydney or suburban house and a fatality
occurs it is never the fault of the City Coun-
cil. Nevertheless, somebody must be to
blame for these wholly preventable happen-
ings. To begin with, the Council ought to
be compelled by law to affix printed notices
in the room where electric-irons are in use
warning householders that irons are per-
fectly safe if the ironer hold them in the
proper way by the insulated handle, but that
if people go poking about with the hand to
see if the thing is hot enough they are liable
to get killed from paralysis of the heart.
Through a flaw in the wiring a young woman
lost her life the other day, and, as usual,
nobody was to blame. But no matter what
the formal verdict may be, there is blame
attachable to somebody; and the fatalities
will continue until that fact is recognised.
Then and not till then proper precautions
•will be taken.
“Obadiah Ren”: Among the buttons sold
in Adelaide on French Red Cross Day was
one with a picture of the flying Smiths.
Many Diggers whom I met refused to buy
this button on the grounds that the avia-
tors weren’t home yet, and to wear the
button would ' bring them bad luck. Any-
one know the origin of this superstition?
When photographer Frank Hurley aroused
Australia with his graphic narrative about
the horrible massacre of penguins on some
of the islands south of Maoriland, Joseph
Hatch, who has a lease of the chief of the
bitter rocks, indignantly declared that Hur-
ley was “pulling Australia’s leg.” He went
further. He made a trip across the Tasman
to demand that Hurley should _ make his
charges good on a public platform. But
Hatch has been unable to come to an
arrangement with Captain Hurley. He puts
it this way to The Bulletin :
Coming here expressly to meet Mr. F. Hurley, on
arrival on December 15 I was surprised, having had
no reply from him to my several letters, to find that
he was in Brisbane. On his return I saw him, but
he had to leave the same day for Adelaide and
explained that he was engaged on tour up to,about
the end of March. This is unfortunate, as I shall
again have to visit Sydney from Maoriland at
considerable expense and loss of time, but 1 will
do it to vindicate my character against charges
which have no foundation in fact. I hope to obtain
a fair British hearing and anticipate a favorable
decision from the public assembled. No doubt Mr.
Hurley’s and my views will give a better oppor-
tunity to those interested to form a definite opinion
on this vexed question.
* * * *
“It is at least possible,” Frank Jay wrote
from N’York to The Bulletin, “that some
of the population Australia needs so much
may yet be supplied through the great
American drought.”
“0.K.”: The historic drinking bars at.
Melbourne Royal will be de-licensed from
December 31. The licens? dates back to
the roaring days of Gold and the wildest
times of Bourke-street. The adjacent
“saddling paddock'’ on the ground floor was
never a more crowded rendezvous for
sinners than when Jem Mace kept a pub
■higher up the street, and champagne used
to be lapped from a bucket in a back bar if
the pugilistic landlord could get a new-chum
mug to stand the cost of filling the wooden
vessel. The bars retained much of their
old air of raffishness long after Jem had
shot his bolt and gone back to Englahd t<>
fall on evil days, and it, was only by degrees
that spielers and wasters dropped away from
the ancient centre of dissipation. The pub
for which J.C.W., Ltd., had no use follows
the other so long associated with the Old
Exchange in Collins-street, where the stock-
brokers of a bygone age used to hit things
up. The Exchange bar has been closed
since October 1, owing to the premises being
acquired by the Commonwealth Bank. , ■
*** * .
“Kiss”: Allenby should have been hoisted
to the peerage as Baron Galvanised Iron.
A great hindrance to the progress of the
Desert campaign was the difficulty of drag-
ging food and provisions through the sahd.
Allenby overcame this by placing sheets of
iron just under the surface, and in time there
were improvised roads of this sort through-
out the deserts of Egypt. The highways
THE BARE NECESSITIES.
“Do you really think that some day women
will adopt a uniform dress?"
“Certainly, my dear—some day when they
have left off so much that it will he
impossible to vary the little they have
left on.”
should last for many years if they are not
destroyed by Turks or stolen by Arabs. He
himself rattled over them in a single-seater
Ford with only his chauffeur for company.
(Continued on page 18.)
STANZAS TO PHRYNETTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O costly £ove! Gone are the days
When in your company
Long hours (and little else) I spent,
Yet gained delectable content.
Some sweets, at one-and-three,
And fares for two (say, eighteenpence)
Comprised a blissful night’s expense.
Then mercenary notions came,
Which true love must deplore ;
A victim to your costly wiles,
In suppers I now pay for smiles;
And chocolates galore
Into your lap I’m forced to toss —
Love’s labor now indeed is loss!
The nights when at the early door
You were content to stand
Are gone for ever. I must pay
Twelve bob (plus tax) to see a play
Ere I can hold your hand;
A single kiss now costs much more
Than hours of bliss in days of yore.
If music be the food of love
You’ve had a goodly meal;
Your appetite for cigarettes
Occasions me profound regrets;
I care not that you steal
My heart and leisure —these are trash—
But cannot bear the loss in cash!
I could forgive you much, Phrynette,
But cannot give you more.
My fond devotion still belongs
To you; despite financial wrongs,
More dear than e’er before
You are to me —in fact, too dear,
So we must part, sweet profiteer!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.
It’s good to know that the U.S.A.,
Where Prohibition reigns,
Is looking across in a friendly way
To Australia’s wide domains.
We’ve made our mark in the world, that's clear,
For we know —and for this much thanks —
That just so long as we draw the beer
We can reckon on drawing Yanks.


a
m
€
<s*
MB
4
I
Ss
Ite
'i
R
\
118
FATHER had promised us an unusual
present this year and he always
keeps his word. His gift to the ™
r family is to be a beautiful AEOLIAN-VOCALION. He
could not keep the joyous news until the happy day. So
pleased was he with his purchase he just had to let the “cat
out of the bag.” So we are to have our VOGALION sent
out immediately and good music will be ours in plenty for
the holiday season and thereafter. He said there was no doubt
in his mind in choosing the VOGALION. Its superiority
over other instruments was at once apparent.
That is just one of the thousands of of
the famous AEOLIAN-VOCALION bringing
happiness and pleasure into the home. Music,
that mysterious substance of sound melody, is
truly, as the poet said, “ the language of the
soul.” It is a sort of celestial melting pot in
which our souls assemble and are refined, the
dross eliminated, and we are permitted to hear
momentarily, the pure metallic ring of our spirit.
No mortal can justly describe it, but in the
perfect musical expression of the marvellous
AEOLIAN-VpGALION it is possible for all to
FEEL and enjoy it.
'Av.y.v.'.v.v.v.v.*!*
mmmm
liii
MH
lilt
V.V.V.W.J.V,
•XvXXWxi
n
x-x-x
SS:
m
ffl
m P&
:iw
vx-xvx-’-:*:-:
DANCING,
Songs, Recitations, Musical Instrument
Playing—ideal entertainment and a glori-
ously happy time is assured when
VOCALION is the chosen present—The
only phonograph with the ingenious
Graduola Tone-controlling Device
a <b - ' A
£<°<:*&%>.
*«**>*?/. i
VOCALION CATALOG COUPON
Name.
Address
The Pianola Company Pty. Ltd.
“Aeolian” Registered Trade Mark
“The Centre for the World’s Greatest Achievements in Musical Instruments.”
384 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
And at— 252 Colli AS Street. Melbourne
436 Queen Street. Brisbane
Corner Rundle Street and Gawler Place, Adelaide


■i ivm
\ \ -m
NI9
Sunll
::
imllllllllli(...rf?Sfiiiiillllilli
PA-ron
Thel?r/nk' that pleases
yoar pa/ate
BRI/WS
FAMOUS
BARLEY HALT
cin<
' DiVhlled ir\ \
srricfesf Governmenh
supervision
UL-T711
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SAFETY FIRST.
THE LIEUTENANT: “So you'd turn down a poor fellow because he has a bullet hidden in
his body?"
THE LADY: “Suppose one of these nights it was to go off!"
“Staff Captain”: Talking about brilliant
orders, here’s a case. In May, 1917, we were
in close support, waiting to participate in
the Bullecourt stunt. The weather was any-
thing but warm and fine, and the troops were
dug in without shelter. Kept under con-
stant shell-fire, they were not feeling tre-
mendously cheerful, knowing that in a few
days’ time they would participate in a big
attack on the Hindenburg line. The Colonel
and I were working in our dugout, consist-
ing of a hole six-feet square, with a sheet of
galvanised-iron for cover from shell and
weather, when a battalion-runner brought me
a message: “To-morrow being Anzac Day, a
half-holiday will be observed.” The writer
probably got the 0.8. E.!
“Skipper” : The Aussie motto was, “When
in a tight corner, full steam ahead.” Smithers
tried it with good results at the Corps
School. The commandant was a man from
Mons, strict as the Devil, but with a Scotch
sense of humor. Of the 40 officers, mostly
Tommies, only 10 turned up to church
parade, and the absentees all received a
“Please explain” next morning. The excuses
were plausible and various, but Smithers.
who knew his man, wrote: “I was absent
without leave in Boulogne from Saturday
afternoon until five this morning, so received
no warning of this parade."’ The Old Man
raised blisters with his tongue, and then
singled out Smithers as the only truthful
man in the squad.
* * * #
“Cobber of George It.” : Here’s one of the
stories that General Ryrie (“the old Brig.”)
brought back from the early days of Gal-
lipoli. An English brass-hat attempted to
get beyond a Digger sentry without a pass.
The Digger turned him down cold. “But
I’m an English colonel, and I must get to my
lines,” wailed the exasperated Pommy. “I
don’t give a damn,” replied Billjim wearily,
and to all further expostulations he turned a
stolid dial and an unhearing ear. Suddenly
the plaintive drawl of the wretched English-
man was cut off at the meter by a voice
from the near-by trench. “Don’t argue,
Bill,” it said ; “shoot the cow and let’s
get to sleep.”
* * * *
This comes with an affidavit:—-
\\ hen Dinny returned from the war he found the
pier empty of his friends. The girl he had left
behind him was not there. He had hoped she migtit
he —hoped that the sudden cessation of letters a year
ago had been due to Departmental defects; hoped
anything but that she had tired of him and caught
on elsewhere. Yet Dinny was in no hurry to go home.
There was only the old man there, and they had not
parted on good terms. Endwood senior had strongly
disapproved of the girl, without knowing a thing
about her. Dinny had a couple of drinks, slouched
about town, found nothing changed, and finally con-
cluded. “Well, it’s up to me.” So he went home.
The old man’s reception was not wanting in cordiality.
They had a drink, and Dinny was introduced to a
new mother-in-law. They had lunch, and then in the
library over cigars Endwood senior opened up the
old sore. “That girl,” he said—“l suppose you've
forgotten her? I expect now you’re grateful to me
for not letting you make an infernal young fool of
yourself?” “Oh, that’s all right,” Dinny responded
dully. “I hope,” dad went on, “you’ve taken the
opportunity absence gave you to shake her off. She
was no class.” “No class at all, dad.” “Ah, glad
to hear So the idea of marriage is quite off,
eh?” “Oh, yes, dad, there’s no help for it.” “How
no help for it?” “Well, dad, I notice you’ve been
and married her yourself!”
* * * *
“Camelero”: As a parade-ground soldier
the Gyppo is very well; but put him in the
firing-line and he’s the most pitiful object
that ever was in khaki. Shortly after the
Senussi marched toward Cairo with the in-
tention of driving the British infidels into
the sea, a small force of the Arabs attacked
a newly-erected British fort at Sidi Barani,
on the shores of the Mediterranean. The
Gyppos holding the fort outnumbered the
Arabs four to one; yet after a day’s sniping,
during which both forces fired only a few
shots that injured no one, the Gyppos
hoisted the white flag. It was a bad day for
our side, for the O.C. of the Gyppo force
joined the Senussi and supplied them with
information which enabled the Arabs to
make things warm for us for several weeks.
We never caught that Gyppo, but heard that
he was killed in Tripoli. It was the last
time during the war that the Gyppos were
trusted in the front line; from then onwards
they were employed caretaking water and
food dumps.
“Camelero”: All very well to talk about
“civilised” warfare, but is it a fair thing
to put men armed only with the modern
rifle-bullet against savage races that know
nothing of the rules? Certain tribes of
Arabs, for instance, always try to kill, and
if they can at the same time torture so much
AS OTHERS SEE VS.
“What a great, hulking brute!”
“What a little rat of a thing!”
the better. During the Senussi campaign a
small force of our men was surrounded near
Solium (Nor’-West Egypt), and all but
annihilated. There is no doubt at ail that
this would not have happened if our troops
had been furnished with a more deadly bul-
let. The Senussi. although pierced with two
or three of our pills, still advanced and then
tired at close quarters. Their Sniders and
other obsolete rides were loaded with heavy
leaden dum-dum slugs, which made such
ghastly wounds that the majority of out-
wounded died before they reached the first
base hospital.
* * * *
“A.W.T.” : Narrow escapes, it is? Here’s
one from the Messines area. Time, the lat-
ter end of February, 191 S, when 53rd Bat-
talion H.Q. were in a German pillbox situ-
ated in a gully and what remained of a
wood. Jerry had been searching the land-
scape for about four hours with long-range
8-inch armor-piercing shells, and as his range
gradually improved most of the occupants
took cover in a big near-by dugout; but it
was necessary for the two signallers on duty
to remain in the office at the telephones. The
last shell fired landed fair and square on
the pillbox, drove through the roof and into
the ground, exploding right under the two
men at work. For 10 seconds or so the air
was fall of flying debris. Then, when every-
thing had fallen, out of the ruin crawled
two dusty men with their clothes blown to
rags. But for a small scratch on one Dig-
ger’s forehead, they were unmarked, though
only a huge hole and a few slabs of concrete
marked the site of what had been a pillbox
30 seconds previously.
“Smike” : A Melbourne firm is giving pro-
minence to a plan of the first Melbourne
land sale on June 1. 1837. Henry Hoddle,
surveyor and auctioneer, sold the blocks
on terms —£10 deposit; balance in one
month. Hoddle himself secured the whole
of the western side of Elizabeth-street, from
Little Collins-street to Bourke-street, for
£54, and Charles Swanston bought the cor-
ner of Little Collins and Swanston streets
for £3O. Stewart Dawson’s corner, opposite
the Town Hall, went for £45. and the sale
of Altson’s corner (Elizabeth and Collins
streets) put £32 into the Treasury. The
heavier prices paid for lots in the neisrhbor-
hood of King-street showed a belief in the
possibilities of the western side of the vil-
lage, which was shared by Batman and
Fawkner. Batman paid £65 for the present
site of the A.M.P., and risked £75 on the/
Flinders-William-streets corner adjacent to
the river. Fawkner pinned his faith to the
corner of Kins? :md Flinders streets, and
went to £32 to get it.
“R.A.Y.”: Wirefence had been struggling
on a poor N.S.W. North Coast farm for
years, hoping for a chance to sell at a price
that would leave him a hundred or two over
the pressing mortgage. The chance came
with the return of the soldiers, on one of
whom a smart agent passed off Wirefence’s
farm at about £5OO more than the owner
ever hoped to get for it.
When the accounts were
settled up and Wirefence
had his wad in his pocket he
expressed his gratitude. “I’ll
never forget the soldiers,”
he declared. “They went
away to save me from the
Germans, and they came
back to save me from the
Jews.”
* * *
“J. 8.”: The recent death
of old-man Sutherland, the
pioneer of Milford Sounds
(M.L.), after whom the
Sutherland Falls (1904 ft.)
are named, and the pathetic
story of his wife waiting
alone with her husband’s
body until the Government
steamer Hinemoa came in to
relieve her, opens a box or
two of memories—of wrecks
and derelicts and wild nights
on the West Coast. But
the Hinemoa (God bless her
for coming up from the bot-
tom of Cook Strait one
night!) brings back to mind,
one of the toughest mates
she ever had. He'd sailed
with a brass-bound captain
who ran his ship on Navy
lines. “How’s her head ?”
said lie one morning to the
wheel. “Nor’ nor'-west,”
snarled the steersman, over-
due for relief by some
scrouch for’ard. The skip-
per stiffened. “My God,”
he snapped, “that’s not the
way to answer me! Here,
gimme the wheel. Now, you
ask me how her head is.”
“ ’Ow’s ’er ’cad?” “Nor’
nor’-west, sir!” (spoken
briskly in hornpipe style). ‘
“Well,” says the seaman, “keep ’er -—-
well so while I ’ave a smoke.”
* * -* *
“Exile” (from the U.S.A.) : Agree with
“Padjud” ( I>. 4/9/T9) that “telegraph rates
in Australia are too cheap.” Sixteen words
for a shilling is ridiculous, especially when
it is “flat” for all distances and not a zone
rate. The Western Union Telegraph Co., of
America, charges 4s. 7d. for 10 words froih
’Frisco to N’York —say about the same dis-
tance as from Perth to Sydney by wire.
Address and signature are not charged.
From ’Frisco to Oakland, a town across the
Bay, you can send 10 words for Is. 6d. Aus-
tralia ought to adopt the zone system and
charge for telegraphing by distance. The
revenue would be higher and it would be
possible to pay telegraph employees a sen-
sible wage. Australian telephone rates are
also too low considering the capital cost of
installing the service. In California
is the cheapest price for a city message, and
according to distance the charge is increased
to 10d., Is. Bd., 2s. 6d. and so on up to 50
miles. And this I may say without lower-
ing my voice, our telephone and telegraph
systems are quite as efficient as those of
Yankeeland, although hundreds of Austra-
lians do growl at our Postal Department.
* * * *
“Widgee”: The bloke that drives our
steam-roller is a downtrodden wage-slave of
the municipality, pushed almost off his block
by the increases in the cost of living
“Blimey,” he told me the other morning
“I’m blankered if I kin make ado iv it. Il
I wasn’t married it’d be bad enough, but me
wife ’as to ’ave ’er clo’es. Stockings, now.
W’y, larsweek she ’ad t’ pav ’m*f a quid
fer a pair!”
* * * *
The specific act of cruelty relied on by
Lady Carbery (she was Josie Metcalfe of
Brisbane) in her divorce suit against Lord
Carbery was the fact that on a big game-
shooting expedition in Africa he had beaten
her with a sjambok. The faithless noble-
man did not defend. Yet such a case might
well be arguable. There is a type of woman
who is capable of insisting on going after
lions in a Paris hat. She is to be seen at
bush picnics in silk stockings and high-
heeled house-slippers. She talks loudly in
the most poignant moments of great
dramas. She mishandles pianos, and sings
out of tune. It is not suggested that Lady
Carbery was guiltv of any of these things.
But it wouldn’t have mattered if she had
been. Counsel would not have dared to
mention them in mitigation, much less as
a justification of chastisement. Civilised
woman has established the convention that
the man who lays a hand on her is an out-
cast. and the herd instinct which domi-
nates all of us forbids any public challenge.
But privately most people recognise that a
good spanking would do many a lady of
fashion a world of good.
FUNERAL REFORM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Do this when ye think me dead:
Open wide the sash and door,
Let the yellow sunlights tread
Round and round me on the floor.
Birds shall sfng not far away,
Leaves shall whisper, grasses sigh;
Let me feel the merry dav
Dancing round me as I lie.
Any fool who draws a face
Longer than a fiddle frame,
Drive him headlong from the place
With my curse upon his name.
He who says “We all must go”
Mouths the commonplaces drear,
Get him swiftly with the toe—
Make him yell till I shall hear.
Lest “respectful” dulness come
Seeking right of entrance due,
Let the children beat a drum,
Marching round me two and two.
Make the undertaker see
Mine is not a house of gloom,
That my spirit cannot be
Shut within his narrow tomb.
Make him drape his cart in pink,
Put bay horses in to pull ;
Black I only know as ink
And the livery of the fool.
Put me in a paper shroud,
And a paper coffin, too,
That my body may be proud
Mixing with the earth and dew.
Write no word above my head,
Lose all memory of the spot ;
When the world accounts me dead
You be sure that I am not.
I shall haunt the sunlit green,
Make ghost-laughter in the breeze;
And perchance a child may lean
Sometimes on my spirit knees.
T shall tell him through his dreams
All the happy things I know,
Till he finds the lawns and streams
Of all fairyland aglow.
Till he fronts a splendid youth
Drawing bold and fearless breath,
Master of the living truth
That is master over death.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


M
i -■ . ■
I- . .
mm* x \ f : ■
■\ i >
|
> **
; ' % £r>lP
x
Hi y&.
-
i
i
h
■>:'
- i ‘ ;
m
I
l "Cr.. J
: .A
■
W;®
II
mm
mm.
PH
II
'A *. ••* •
■m
|4 l /
; ■
x ; -.
Mugglll
Studebaker’s best salesman
T is one thing to induce a man to buy a car. It is another
thing to convince him that his purchase is a wise one.
And it is “something else again” to establish the
conviction so firmly that it will endure during the
period of his ownership.
But it is a greater triumph still when his satisfaction takes the
form of an active advocacy of the merits of his car. Then there
is the spectacle of the finest salesman in the world —the
disinterested and enthusiastic owner.
Studebaker Sales’ Records reveal many such examples. Here is
one instance. A purchaser of a New Model Series 19 Studebaker
was so genuinely impressed by the goodness of the car, so saturated
with appreciation of its excellence, that his enthusiasm
communicated itself to five of his friends. Those five men, also,
are now Studebaker owners.
It is such “snowball” happenings as these that account for the
extreme difficulty which is constantly experienced in coping with
the swelling volume of Studebaker sales. But it is by such evidence
that the discriminating purchaser is actuated and, in his turn,
enlists under the Studebaker banner.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA
Head Office for Australia: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. South Australian Branch: 1 Currie
LIMITED,
Street, Adelaide.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
C. C. & M. A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
New Zealand: Adams Limited,
Christchurch,
Palmerston North,
Timaru,
Wanganui.
h


11l mMi
THe
finest
TOBACCO
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed,
“EDGEWORTH’’
r 4
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS, surrounded by NATURAL
BUSH.
25 NEW BEDROOMS built over the water—
every room looking out to the Heads.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from Mos-
man. Amphitheatre Swimming
Baths. Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Tariff from 12/6 per day or
£3/10/- per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
A Signal Success
fdh
King (jeorge IV
IheTOP-NOTCHScotcK
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Gouger”: The school-kiddies on the
Bloomfield River (N.Q.) often have a little excite-
ment while rowing to and from school. The river
is the home of a few old-man crocodiles, and these
horny-hided saurians have taken to swimming close
behind the boats. One reptile, hoping for the best,
follows a family of youngsters down the river to
school regularly, and at knock-off time in the after-
noon is waiting at the boat-landing to dog them
home. The kids volley the horrible brutes with
rocks, but they don’t take any notice of such trifles.
It’s infernally hard to poison the croc. He can
smell a doped lump of meat as far away as a
“bad” politician can a “commission.”
“Wandi”: Talk about the waste of buffalo
meat, what about the waste of wild pig, which has
been going on as long as I can remember? Mossmin
(Q.) sugar-mill used to pay 7s. 6d. each for pig-
scalps captured within a certain radius, and hog-
hunting was consequently a favorite pastime on
spare afternoons and moonlight nights. The grunters
ranged from the Daintree to Mackay districts, and
coming down the coast travellers occasionally en-
countered them in mobs of hundreds. I saw plenty
on Nive River and farther south, where they are
still hunted in scrubs and swamps. A few porkers
can do a lot of damage when they feel that way.
At Minaba, in Bowen district, a three-acre crop of
sweet potatoes was rooted up and devoured in one
night, and on Johnstone River a 12-acre paddock of
newly-planted cane was destroyed just as quickly.
* * * *
“Wart”: The Tassy Public Works Com-
mittee lately considered the construction of a new
jetty at Blackwall, on the Tamar. The problem
whether use should be made of ferro-concrete, stringy
bark or turpentine piles came up. One of the
Humber family weighed in with an exhibit cut
from a stringy-bark pile which his great-grandfather
put in 90 years ago when he started shipbuilding
at Blackwall. The wood was as sound as the day
the pile was driven. That settled the question.
* * * *
“ Jarrah”; The rabbit has at last girdled
the Commonwealth. More than one observer has
reported seeing bunny cavorting on the confines of
Perth, and there is no longer any room for dis-
belief. He now looks out on to the Indian Ocean
with the same air of nonchalance as his brother
over East does on the Pacific Ocean.
“Cape Pork” : I had a very poor opinion
of Binghi’s tribes of dogs till they fought
me. It happened in the Bloomfield scrub
(N.Q.). I had got home one night late
and received word that the daughter of
a neighbor had been molested by a nig
whom I knew as an outlaw. I set out
alone, taking with me a heavy Webley
revolver and a rope to fix him. At
about midnight I got to the patch of
scrub where his camp was situated, and
hung the horse up close to the one track
through the dense scrub leading to the
mia-mia. I crawled on- all fours for
about 290 yards, dodging wait-a-bit,
lawyer-vine, broad-leafed stinging-tree,
etc., and without making enough noise
to 'startle the dogs, got to the opening
to the camps. After completing a sur-
vey I decided on what 1 reckoned should
be the single abos’. quarters and got on
to my hind legs for the spurt that would
bring me to the entrance of the mia-mia.
I bargained without Binghi’s dogs. After
my first few steps they were on me.
My first shot got a huge staggy-looking
brute as big. as a wo.lt'hound full in the
neck. He was followed by the rest, and
it was not till I had outed five that I
could continue my search. I got my
nig. ; but it was at a spot about 50 miles
away, two days later. No, I didn’t pump
lead into him. I handed him over to the
proper authorities to be dealt with. I
never forgot Binghi's dogs after that.
“Ariha”: The Koitapu tribe of the grass
country behind Port Moresby (Papua) has a tradi-
tion that a gigantic and terrible iguana, an immense
beast as large as a crocodile, inhabits the valley of
the Laloki River. The passing of many of the
Koito nobility to the better (or hotter) land is
debited to this fearsome reptile, and, in more recent
times, the loss of straying horses and cattle has
been accounted to the same animal. According to
my old crinkly-skinned Koitapuan friend, only one
European has ever met one of the lolomi (the native
name for the reptile). He was Archie Macalpine,
and the introduction took place near the Laloki
River. Mac shot the other party, who measured
nearly 12ft. The lolomi was much in evidence
about this time, and a visiting Austrian scientist
was warned by his head boy in the following words:
“Sir boss, s’pose you sleep ’longa bush close up
Laloki, you look out too much ’longa lolomi he
no eatem you ! S’pose you been findem one fellow
lolomi, he been sleep one thing you no makem
row wakem up lolomi! ” But the Hun unfortu-
nately never met any of his lolomi relations.
“R.A.Y.”: Randolph Bedford says (B.
27/11/’l9) that the guava should be declared a
noxious plant because it is such a host for the
fruit-fly; but I have noticed in my district that
where there are guavas growing near other fruits the
flies concentrate on them, while the more useful
bearers are left almost untouched, though similar
fruits in the locality, with no guavas near, were all
infested. I can’t say if this is a general occurrence;
but the point might be worth investigating.
THE THORN THAT SPOILED THE
ROSE.
“Thought 'twas an' all-right job y' 'ad?”
“So 'twas — 'cep' fer the work y' 'ad t' do!”
“H.E.P.”: “A.W.O.’s” frilled lizard was
only a pullet alongside an old hen of the species
whose nest I unearthed in our Western N. S. Wales
back yard. When the string was tallied there were
67 attached to it. I do not know if she had finished
laying when I intruded.
* * * *
“Charoop”: The two kids from the bush
where dad had been engaged in trapping and poison-
ing had come to the town with the family, and
this was their first day at the school. The elder
kept his brother by the hand to protect him from
all the dangers with which his imagination sur-
rounded them, but at last a game tempted him away,
and the younger was left alone, looking more for-
lorn than ever. A girl took pity on him and offered
him an apple. It was accepted, and the sharp
teeth were just about to sink into the fruit when
the elder brother bounded up. “Don’t, Jack,” he
called out; “don’t —it might be a bait.”
“Maranoa”: Reverting to long-distance
droving and Jack Skuthorpe. The Skuthorpes come
of a very old pioneer family that settled on the
lower Balonne River as its first white inhabitants.
As stockmen and horsemen they were
right in front. I remember Jack’s
big overland stunt with the Wave Hill
cattle, but I claim for one Harvey
a better piece of work irt droving
line. In 1918 he lifted 600 'bullocks
off McArthur River station, travelled
them across the Territory into Queens-
land, struck the Maranoa River at
Mitchell, followed it down to .St.
George on the Balonne, thence to
Mungindi on the N. S. Wales border,
where he delivered after an unbroken
spell of over a year on the road. If
1 remember rightly Skuthorpe’s trip
was made in divisions. Harvey on his
return trip purchased at St. George a
Patmos colt to race, and again turned
his face to the Never-Never, where he
hoped to make a fortune racing or
again take up his old occupation of buffalo-shooting
for hides.
* * * *
“Damper”: Would be very much obliged
if some fellow-horseman would tell me a method to
cure a prad of plunging out of the shafts while
being unharnessed. I have a very fine sulky pony
among my bunch which has acquired this dangerous
habit, though he is as quiet as can be otherwise. I
have tried numerous ways to cure him, but the only
successful method so far is to get a couple of cobbers
to help me. The nag acquired the habit all of a
sudden one afternoon. Result, me sore for a week
after and minus £3 10s. for a new pair of shafts.
“Sam” : I can beat “Phil Harum” and his
381 b. of wool from a sheep which had been running
in the mountains five years (B. 27/11/’l9). At
Garden Creek, Springsure (Q.), a few months back,
a wether with two years nine months’ growth cut
421 b. of wool. The fleece realised £2 6s. Iod.
"Pat Roll”: M hen the young browu
brother of Papua is admitted into the tribe as a
budding warrior, he is given a stone
club and a suit of clothes—some four
or five yards of native-made string.
These gifts come from his father, or,
if dad has previously departed to the
Land of Ghosts, grand-dad or an
uncle is the outfitter. From the youth’s
earliest days the traditions of the
tribe have been instilled into him by
the old folk, so, upon his advent to
manhood, he is filled with an all-
absorbing passion to deal out a sticky
end to the tribal enemies. A custom
called he-era, which is prevalent
among the people of the
Owen Stanley range, is
the source of a consider-
able number of killings.
He-era is really the law
of homicidal emblems:
no man may wear cer-
tain coveted signs until
he has a murder to his
credit. These signs may
include Paradise plumes,
crimson cockatoo or par-
rot feathers, toncan
(hornbill) bills, scarlet
croton leaves and casso-
wary plumes. Until a
youth has won the right
to wear these emblems
he cannot take a wife,
as the law runs in many
tribes. The white man’s
law discourages the he-
era with the hangman’s
rope and long terms of
gaol, but the old custom
breaks out at intervals,
for Brown Brother is a
fine old Conservative.
Vendettas that originated
centuries ago still flourish
among the valleys, and the mountains, and he-era
helps to keep these feuds alive.
“Capo Pork”: The aboriginal custom of
“marking” the males seems to be dying out in the
No- th. Years ago the belief among the blacks was
that if a male got married without being first
marked he would not last till the next moon after
the ceremony. Marking consisted of cutting deep
gashes across the breast and stomach with a sharp
knife or piece of broken glass. I have seen the
operation so severe that the entrails protruded. The
buck then plastered the incisions with mud and
convalesced at the nearest running creek. The single
males used to have a wholesome respect for the
ceremony, and none would dare to “tunga,” as the
Zulu puts it, unless first marked. The Cooktown
tribe used, also, to knock a front tooth out of the
top jaw of males, but this custom is dying, too.
* * * *
“Wart”: Will you deny that this is a
record? A Lincoln ram owned by P. 0. Best, Delo-
raine (Tas.), was shorn the other day and the fleece
weighed 381 b., or 401 b. with the belly and pieces.
Value at the present price, somewhere about £2
7s. 6d. Another ram was stripped of 331 b. of wool,
and one of 301 b.
# * * f *
“The Pariah”: Any Abo. in the recently
fire-swept Otway (Vic.) tell me if the fire bush has
made its appearance ? I saw it only in areas
scorched by fire, and old hands assured me that it
REFUSING TO BE COMFORTED.
VISITOR (calling on temporarily-disabled
friend) : “Buck up, old friend, buck up.
You're lucky, after all. Look at Jim
Cobbett —he lost his old woman last
week.”
Patient: “Fat lot of good that done me/”
grew only there, and died out in about five seasons.
Sometimes it was a single stalk, sometimes a bush,
and the flowers were yellow. Can anyone give the
thing its proper name ?
(Continued on page 22.)
TEAMSTER BILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He called me Sweetheart when I met him first.
A greenhide thong about his moleskins coiled;
A piebald mare, footsore and full of thirst,
Behind his waggon up the steep hill toiled.
I liked him though he cursed.
He pulled my pigtails, laughed uneasily,
Said he was hungry, might he have a drink?
His speech was prisoned and his pauses free.
It was the way he cracked his whip, I think,
Made me run eagerly.
Each flowery week his heavy waggon came
Out of the forest on its way to town;
Shy-eyed with happiness I spoke his name
And soon, grown bold, would meet him coming down
The long road red as flame.
I filled his billy, gave his mare a drink;
And, when the bullock-bells rang low in rest,
' I’d steal, child-anxious, to the hobble’s chink,
And listen breathlessly of east and west
And lands where wild stars wink.
He’d crossed the Lachlan as a boy of four,
Driven for Cobb and Co. and carried food
Far to the limits of the Cooper’s shore,
When the fierce native threatened every rood
And craved the white man’s store.
A wild wood child, I loved the child in him,
And saw him riding all Australia o’er,
A lonely boy with lips, love-locked and grim,
Talking to cattle from brown shore to shore.
He made my young eyes sw’im.
For by the Murray and the Darling streams
O’er ranges high, through Bourke and Charleville,
I went with him again in playtime dreams,
Living his memories of good and ill,
And caught Romance’s gleams.
Wool, wheat and timber we would travel round ;
Cattle and Sheep we’d drove from east to w^est;
Or halt, gold-cradling in some “likely” ground
Where Fate called thousa s as her chosen guests
From worlds beyond our bound.
PROFITEERING EXPOSED.
“Had a feurful row with my tailor, old
thing; he absolutely ref used me credit.”
“The profiteering scoundrel! He couldn't
expect you to pay for clothes at present
prices.”
Of bells and spurs, hobbles and chains he told,
Mingled with fairy tales he used to read,
Of queens and emperors in lace and gold
Walking the ways of lofty thought and deed
Through the green dreams of old.
Slow was his speech, yet soft and sweetly deep
Unto the small ears drinking in its flow.
Sometimes he’d sing my little soul to sleep
With stockwhip airs and rhymes of long ago,
Mixed in with my 80-Peepj
lie loved a girl once—second best to me.
He courted her with concertina tunes
And hinted gently at his treasury;
But dared not speak of Love and honeymoons.
And so God kept him free.
At threescore years and more, by hill and road,
He drives his bullocks still, and swears and sings,
As, pulling bravely at the heavy load,
The leaders struggle, and the high whip swings,
A friendly, homely goad.
He called me Sweetheart in the years long cold,
A pigtailed child whose heart does not forget,
Ah! miracle of Love and Youth untold!
He meets me now, and sees me unchanged yet—
His love of six years old.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.


Australian Novels.
The Commonwealth’s best Authors are represented in the
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Books.
Comprises over 100 volumes, catering for every class of reader.
1/- each—All One Price —1/1i posted.
Obtainable from all Bookstalls and Booksellers throughout the
Commonwealth.
Write for free Catalogue.
Ten Great Sporting Novels by ARTHUR WRIGHT.
STEELE RUDD’S Selection Series.
THOS. E. SPENCER’S Humorous Books.
A few other authors represented in the Series:
EDWARD DYSON:
“Fact’ry ’Ands.” “Spats’ Fact’ry.” “Benno.’’
“The Missing Link.” “Loves of Lancelot.”
J. H. M. ABBOTT:
“Sally—the Tale of a Currency Lass.” “The Sign of the Serpent.”
BEATRICE GRIMSHAW:
“The Coral Queen.”
A. G. STEPHENS:
“Bill's Idees ”
“White Savage Simon.”
E. J. BRADY:
“Tom Pagdin—Pirate.”
RANDOLPH BEDFORD:
“Aladdin and the Boss Cockie.” “Billy Pagan—Mining Engineer.”
JACK McLAREN:
“Red Mountain.”
“The Skipper of the ‘Roaring
Meg.’ ”
LOUIS BECKE:
“Bully Hayes.”
‘Adventures of Louis Blake.”
NEW VOLUMES ADDED EVERY MONTH.
‘IRONBARK SPLINTERS,”
By G. HERBERT GIBSON (“IRONBARK”).
A volume of popular bush and other poems, including the widely-known “My Mate
Bill.”
“One of the most original and characteristic of Australian literary performances.”— The Bulletin.
“Clever and amusing.”—S. M. Herald.
“The rhymes are spirited and go with the sort of ring that seldom fails to catch the public
ear.” —Sydney Daily Telegraph.
l/« each ; post free 1/1 -j.
Published by
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. Ltd.
476 George Street, SYDNEY.
Leviathan
Tailoring
Ensures Satisfaction.
15hQ
Quality
vSuit
MADE-TO-MEASURE
£7 7
in guaranteed Indigo-dyed
Navy or Black Twill, or
Superior All-Wool Tweed
in grey or brown effects.
REMEMBER—
The Leviathan is noted
for its stylish cut and
exceptionally fine tailor-
ing.
Write to-day for Patterns,
Home Measurement Chart
and Tape.
Returned Sailors and
Soldiers allowed 10
p.c. discount.
J-
:~v
t?
-
£
>-T
St ■ ' *a£>
■■ ■■;'■ ' ; ■
>
\\
•-Han:- las-?
a®.*
Pi
£&»8S
I J
tS :
SHfcj
wliffts
f i
mmisM
i'hipffiHli
r ■-
&
WiliW:
mm
!i@ ssS
l&i
HH
rs
&i 3
:
iSI
I J l '
: mm
j
iit&pl&pM’JSiski
ijmi
rj kc'ijk'J.
UUiH: W
H3S
fV '1 -a®
4'
■■ti
"Jsßb V - vSbi
M :V.. : '
m. ..: ■
! ■ -v '
J
j
: 7
Wmm
WS red
sS
I Order by Post.
Wo Pay Carriage,
T»*
LEVIATHAN
Corner Swanston and Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
PLEASE NOTE—WE HAVE NO BRANCHES.
1
IF;
ti
■■Ml
,
S
i
II
mm
■n
m
: ■
Listed on LLOYD’S REGISTER, London,
as Manufacturers of
Steel
Castings
To meet STANDARD
SPECIFICATIONS.
SOFT, MEDIUM and HARD
CARBON CAST STEEL,
MANGANESE and CHROME
CAST STEELS.
All Classes of
SPARES
for
CRUSHING,
ORE REDUCTION
and
GENERAL MINING
AND INDUSTRIAL
MACHINERY.
OAST-STEEL WHEELS, TYRES, Etc., for ROAD ROLLERS and PARTS for T. I ACTORS.
Finished Steel Castings for All Classes of
ROAD, RAILWAY AND TRAMWAY ROLLING STOCK.
THE MANUFACTURERS:—
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria.
AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES: ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER AND CO., CIRCULAR QUAY EAST, SYDNEY.
AGENTS FOR QUEENSLAND: THE AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., MARY STREET, BRISBANE.


Sterling' fadls
concerning'
✓
©
O
£
$
K:w\
v.v.s
£
S2s;!:::jK
o
6
&LI&
TRADK MARK.
METAL CEILINGS
On Economic and Artistic Points WUNDERLICH STAMPED STEEL is now employed
for every class of Interior Decoration
BECAUSE of its DURABILITY, ADAPTABILITY, SIMPLICITY in FIXING, Safety
from FIRE and non-harborage of DIRT or MICROBES.
SHOWROOMS:—Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Hobart, Launceston.
CATALOGUES TOST FREE ON REQUEST FROM MANUFACTURERS,
WUNDERLICH LIMITED
The Ceiling People,
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS:
Baptist Street, Redfern, N.S.W.
POSTAL ADDRESS:
Box 474 G.P.0., Sydney.
“Silas Snell”: Brother Ernie Tregaskis
was a man of abounding faith. He was teacher of
boys’ class 1 at the Little Bethel in Yam, was
three times superintendent of the Sunday-schol, and
on occasions, when a regular parson was unpro-
curable, he preached the sermon and led in prayer.
It was his firm belief that whatever there was
countable for righteousness in Yam was due to his
influence at the High White Throne, and his abound-
ing grace. When the big fall occurred and seven
men were interned, with the dammed back water
in the drive rising well about their middles, and
the smallest prospect of a rescue inside nine hours,
by which time they would either be suffocated or
ch owned like rats, Brother Tregaskis was most dis-
turbed of all, and moaned and cried by the hour.
At length Tomms expostulated with him. “You,
a good, religious man, goin’ on like this,” said he,
“while out-an’-out sinners and drinkers like Pitt
and Melton there is sittin’ still an’ quiet, and talcin’
it like men!” “Ah, that's all very well for them
that ain’t got all this on their conscience,” moaned
Tregaskis. “But I’m the man to blame. I did it!
I did it! Lord help me, Tomms, I come on to work
this night without sayin’ my prayers!”
* * • «
“Mac”: Hand to “Lever” (B. 11/12/’l9),
who wants a cure for warts on stud cattle, this
communication. Cut the warts off with a sharp knife.
Have a branding-iron in the fire to sear if the
wound bleeds too much, though any ordinary stock-
man should be able to perform the operation with-
out needing the iron. Don’t worry about the hair;
it will grow again.
A REASONABLE OBJECTION,
PERHAPS.
HOTEL PROPRIETOR ( disturbed at 2 a.m.) :
“ What’s up, old chap?”
GUEST: “Hie, I want another room (hic).”
PROPRIETOR: “Oh, go to bed — you’ll be all
right in the morning.”
GUEST: “I tell you (hic) I want another
room.”
PROP.: “ What the devil’s up with your
room?”
GUEST: “ Well (hic), it’s on fire, for a start.”
“Lindsay W.” : The all-round excellence of
the Australian red-gum merits more regard than it
receives. The variety growing here (Miirramurrang,
N.S.W.) resembles, but is not precisely identical
with, the Murray red-gum. The beautiful and
essentially cheerful green of its thick foliage and
the mauve tints (not quite so decided as on the hide
of the blue-gum) of its stem make it, when segre-
gated, the most picturesque of Australian hardwoods.
It is absolutely white-ant proof. As a fencing tim-
QUITE PASSABLE COMPANY.
BEAK (to prisoner who has appeared for the 13th time ): " And are you not ashamed
to he here?”
BEERY BILL: “Why, Gor’bless y’r ’Onor, this place is quite respectable to some I 'bin
in lately.”
ber is it unbeatable (gidya given ini) ; and even
unapproachable, except, perhaps, by coastal red
peppermint. The Technological Museum at Sydney
will shortly receive from here the business end of
one of many posts erected over GO years ago by one
Stephen, of a one-time Chief Justice’s family. This
post shows not more than one-eighth of an inch of
decay, and thereunder the timber is as when first
split. For beauty of grain the wood is not ex-
celled even by that wonderful cabinet producer
Spanish mahogany, nor by the next-best thereto,
Tasmanian blackwood. As a stove wood, three solid
chunks inserted at sunrise will induce the kettle to
sing its throat out all day. And in the form of
charcoal it permits the amateur blacksmith to
make welds that rival in efficiency the result of the
most sultry blast from the oxv. jet. Were I head
serang in the Federal Chamber of Misrepresentatives
the wattle bloom would be promptly repealed as the
national emblem, and the fragrant blossom of the
red-gum would flourish in its stead as the more
fitting symbol of Australia and her people.
* * * *
“Punul” : “ J.li.Q.’s” recipo (B. 6/11/’l9)
to check the cobra pest in boats doesn’t stir me
from summer lassitude. I have tried several similar
compositions with arsenic and kerosene mixed, but
still the cobra went about his business. The best
way to check him is to haul the boat out every
two months or so, let her dry thoroughly, and then
paint her with your favorite mixture. But. any
mixture will get scraped off in running over sand-
or mud-banks. As “J.H.Q.” says, pick a clear,
sandy bottom for home mooring, for this is abso-
lutely the main factor in handicapping the cobra.
I have found that tar, brought to boiling-point
and then applied, is as good as any .coating mixture.
A little kerosene mixed doesn’t hurt; but shy clear
of copper-paint.
* * * *
“H.V.E.” ; Captain Cook is credited with
being the first among Europeans to become acquainted
with the kangaroo, and Dampier (whose natural
history, by the way, wasn’t always reliable) first
saw the warrigal “following at the heels of an Aus-
tralian abo.,” but it was left for Thomas Mit-
chell to come first upon the common bandicoot.
Mitchell found this marsupial, subsequently named
“pig-footed bandicoot,” at home on the banks cf
the Murray. He had some of him cooked, but the
explorers didn’t ask for a second helping. At a
later day Horace Wheelwright, who sampled every-
thing from white grub and black snake to shark,
put baridi. in the pot, and voted him passable.
Dampier, when off the coast of Van Diemen’s Land;
struck some good table-fish, which he called “foxes.”
These fish were probably flathead, the craniums of
which have a decidedly foxy Appearance, and the
large yellowish-white eye adds to the resemblance.
“Winner”: It happened when the Dark-
town Fire Brigade was busy trying to extinguish
the fire at the Government store, Port Moresby. A
small stream of water was squirting from a leak
in the hose, and a thirsty native was drinking from
it with evident enjoyment. A native “policey” boy
decided that this was a case for official interference.
Bouncing over he brought down his bamboo cane
with a resounding wallop on that part of the thirsty
one’s anatomy which would have been covered by
the seat of his pants had he been wearing pants.
“Oho,” the police-boy howled; “you bad feller—
you plenty too-much bad feller.” (Whack, Whack.)
“Doan’ you know taubada [white man] want too
much plenty water so fire he stop?’ (Whack, whack,
whack.) “Doan’ you know”—but the thirsty person
didn’t wait for any more. He suddenly remembered
that he had business somewhere else. But where-
ever he is I’m willing to wager a trifle that he
still stands up to take his meals !
“Bad Australian”: Why does the com-
mon brown snake carry his head a few inches out
of the water when swimming, and why does the
red-bellied ‘black snake navigate totally submerged,
like the frog that flees before him?
“R.M.” : Spending a night at Wyandra, a
bush township on the Western line (Q.), the con-
versation at the pub drifted to the subject of eating.
After various feats of appetite had been quoted the
landlord chipped in. “You all know Skinny Mason,”
he said. “Well, I’ll back him against anybody to
get away with a feed. When Skinny’s finished eat-
ing you’d think a sheep had died on his plate.”
“Sassafras”: “C.L.M.” is truly right
(B. 4/12/’l9) about the endurance of the Austra-
lian horse. For staunchness, hardiness and utility
I'll back the dinkum-bred every time.
Allenbv, Chauvel and other “heads’’
swore by our mounts. When rn
Arab steed, so much boasted about,'
came into our possession, it was not
long before he was missing and an
Australian horse put in his place.
Don't know how it was, but when a
Digger was astride a home-bred he
felt a confidence within himself th.it
did not exist when ho had any
other breed. The shooting of these
good four-footed pals was necessary
on a great many occasions owing to
disease, cost of upkeep, etc., but
the thought of putting an ounce of
lead into a true and faithful friend
was too much for many a Light
Horseman, consequently that job fell to Tommies
while Diggers swuig the lead on hospital parade.
“Pick”: The frog is the many-change
artist of the swamp. His early life is a constant
succession of transformations, not only as to appear-
ance, but also in methods of feeding, breathing and
movement. From the centre of grape-like nodules
which float on the surface of still pools in a jelly-
like mass, he emerges, a mouthles’s slug that lives
on the egg yolk, and breathes through external
gills. In a few days’ time these gills disappear,
internal gills develop, a rounded mouth with pro-
truding lips appears, and the creature becomes fish-
like, living wholly under water and feeding upon
vegetable matter. Next legs begin to sprout. Small
knobs grow amidship and stretch backward until
tiie little fellovy is a two-legged tadpole. Then
front legs come forth, and the creature is a quad-
ruped with a huge salamander tail. Lastly, the tail
is gradually absorbed—it doesn’t drop off, as com-
monly supposed—and he is finally a frog. If a
male, the remainder, of his life is indolent and easy.
Seated on the water-lilies he snaps the passing
insects or serenades the ladies of the pond ; and
if he wishes to travel the female has to ferry her
lord upon her barge-like back, and has even to
provide the tyrant with hand-hold pockets in her
sides.
“Phil Hamm” : In the midst of the drought
in the central west of N. S. Wales, a Garra farmer
found that the rabbits remaining on his place went
to cover at one particular spot. On investigating
he discovered that bunny had sunk a shaft sft.
to an underground water supply.
“Yorke Secret'’: Another giant pine was
felled near the head of the Clarence, beyond the
western dip of the range between Casino and
Tenterfield (N.S.W.), the other day. It measured
118 ft. to the first limb, girthed lift. Sin., and
contains over 11,000 super feet.
* * * *
“Buttinhere”: “Phil Harum’s” (B.
27/11/’l9) long-woolled sheep yarn stops above my
Adam’s apple. Any bushie knows that if a jumbuck
successfully evades muster, that season’s coat falls
off him before 12 months go by. Have seen dozens
of woollies that beat the ringer on cut-out day, but
never yet saw one wearing a coat two years’ long,
much less five.
“U.p.” : R. Sawallish, this season’s ringer,
is a brawny South Australian, born at Norwood 30
years ago. He -commenced barbering in 1908. With
11 others he left Perth on March 15, started
them down the shoot on April 3, 150 miles west of
Derby, and worked down the sheds until October 15.
During that period, although considerable time was
lost travelling and through wet weather, Sawallish
shore 22,810 sheep. He did over 200 on 60 occasions,
and his best was 329 in 7hr. 48min.
* - * * *
“Kaylee”: Ellis S. Joseph, Sydney’s
animal dealer, recently put up a record by holding
a platypus in healthy captivity for five months. The
previous best was four months. At his home in
(N.S.W.) Joseph g;ave plat, a first-class
representation of his native haunts, and when the
undertaker was called in the little chap had cost
over £2OO for food, attendance and house-rent.
* * * *
“Wandi”: The eorroboree used to be a
common entertainment near little country towns, but
a performance is not often seen now. In the
well-settled districts the black very rarely turns
to abo. theatricals. Even at race-time, when the
remnants of a tribe come together, this occasion is
more often celebrated in a noisy drinking bout.
One race-time a tribe arranged a eorroboree in
Casino (N.S.W.) to raise the wind for a big spree.
The ring was enclosed with a wall of bushes, a
narrow opening, being left at one sale. Here stood
King Billy, attired in tweed pants and a brass plate,
acting as cashier, and now and again calling out
t!:e price of admission. The_jseats were small logs
EXPERT OPINION.
“These city blokes don’t seem to ’ave no
idea about the price of land. Why, the
bloomin’ stuff wouldn't grow sour-sobs.”
thrown down in a semi-circle, intermixed with
damaged gin-cases, broken oil-drums and rusted
kerosene-tins rescued from the garbage-tip. I re-
member Billy was much disgusted at the poorness of
the “house.”
WHAT HE WANTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jim thought that Johnson’s daughter Nell
Would make a most delightful wife;
But James was far too shy to tell
His tale of love to save his life.
A white man, as all bushmen are,
In deed and word and kind at heart,
A guileless soul, he was by far
The “softest” swain about that part.
For somehow he would never take
The hints she gave him to propose;
So Nell said, “Dad, for goodness sake,
You bring this matter to a close.
“Jim has a tidy bit, they say,
And credit at the station store,
A house and land and stacks of hay,
And forty milkers, less or more.”
So when the lover called again
Dad asked him out to have a smoke,
And put the “office” to him plain—
Well, plain enough for common folk.
"You want my daughter’s hand,” said he,
As firm he held the sleeve of him,
“So if you ask, just formally,
I’ll give it with great pleasure, Jim.”
Jim blanched, then blushed a vivid red
The while he fumbled at his spur.
“ ’Er ’and’s no good ter me,” he said—
“l want th’ bloomin’ lot of ’er.”
N.S.W.
G. D. MACDONALD


3K
m
m
met
M
Oil
rat;
mill
ii
m
//
m
y.
i
3
I
ss>'
m
"'I! 'lll
&
l«
!<iii
1
lilt'
.iivmi
i(i
V.
V/,
//nr
\\\t
m
v
t.
What Would This Country
Do Without Rubber ?
o
NE of the first essential commodities that Germany ran
short of owing to the British Navy’s blockade was Rubber.
The “Deutschland,” the first German submarine to cross
the Atlantic, endeavored to take back— but was captured
—a valuable load of Rubber, for the enemy country was
absolutely starving for it. We cite this fact simply to
illustrate what an important—in fact vital —factor Rubber
has become in every nation’s life. This statement will
come as a surprise to many, but it is true nevertheless. To many
people Rubber is associated mostly with Bicycle and Motor tyres, and
a few other rubber articles in everyday use, but its need in other
spheres is little thought of. Travellers by rail seldom give credit to
Rubber for the part it plays in ensuring their safety—all the various
brake systems now being dependent on air hose connections (we
supply tens of thousands to the respective Railway Departments in
Australia). Take another branch of transport—the Electric Tram
services—here Rubber again is a necessity, insulated cables, vulcanite,
etc, being vital in the harnessing of electricity. All the cable,
telegraph, telephone and wireless systems make demand on Rubber.
The telephone transmitters and receivers are hard polished rubber.
In all the leading mines air hoses, steam hoses, valves, etc., are
servants to efficiency, whilst in many, giant conveyor belt systems
are doing silent and economical work in transporting millions of tons
of stone, ore, etc., at a figure no other system can approach for
economy.
All power plants, ashore or afloat, pay tribute to Rubber in some
form—packings, insertions, gaskets, etc., ensuring efficiency. In
N.S.W. the wheat is to be handled by Dunlop Rubber Conveyor Belts
in conjunction with silos and terminal installations. In all classes
of manufacturing the use of Rubber is on the increase. Hats are
shaped and moulded on it-printers use it in the shape of Rubber
blankets—in fact, thousands of calls are made for Rubber and yet
more Rubber. Our pleasures and recreations pay tribute—for Tennis,
Golf, Football, Cricket, and Lacrosse all rely on it. Waterproofing
is dependent on Rubber—what a sorry time our soldiers would have
had without their proofed campsheets to sleep on! In our hospitals
rubber surgical gloves, draining tubing, etc., save lives and minimise
pain and disease. Your wringer rollers, your phonograph records,
your preserving jar rings, your hot-water bottles, rubber heels and
soles all tend to make life more pleasant. In fact, Rubber in the
form of a baby’s comforter starts you on the road of life, and
thereafter it helps to make the world a more pleasant globe to reside
on. From the foregoing you will realise that the Rubber Industry
has a considerable influence on this country’s welfare—and incidently
on yours. Such being the case it should be apparent that an
Australian Industry of such value to this Country is worthy of
support in every way possible. It is essential to your welfare, and
your assistance is essential to it.
How can you help ? Simply by always specifying “Dunlop”
when purchasing Rubber goods. It entails no sacrifice. You buy
DUNLOP
Rubber Goods
cheaper than the imported, and with the certainty of getting value
and maximum service. Half the Rubber goods used in this Country
come overseas— the product of workmen who are paid with Australian
gold. With loyal support that <£1,200,000 can stay in Australia,
providing more work for our citizens.
Here’s an opportunity to further Australian production. Will
you help? Our leading manufactures comprise:
Motor Tyres
(Pneumatic & Solid)
Cycle Tyres
Vehicle Tyres
Tennis Balls
Ebonite Goods
Mining Goods
Sporting Goods
Milking Machine Requisites
Plumbers’ Goods
Engineering Requisites
Conveyor Belts
Driving Belts
Rubber Heels <S Soles
Waterproof Garments
Inlaid Matting, etc.
Hoses— Garden, Engineering, etc.
Look for the “ Dunlop” Trade
Mark—it’s your guarantee of
Service and Satisfaction
DUNLOP
RUBBER
CO.
ALL STATES and N.Z.


Every farmer &, engine-user
can now use Kerosene fuel!
Get aTYPE Z FAIRBANKS MORSE ENGINE
NO farmer should buy an engine that eats up the most expensive fuel, when the Type “Z” Fairbanks Morse Engine
is ready to give better service on kerosene—the cheapest fuel you can buy. In the Type “Z” Engine, the
Fairbanks Morse Co. have solved the problem of using kerosene in a farm-engine without messing up the valves
and plugs—a common feature of most so-called kerosene engines. The use of kerosene in itself will save you many
pounds during the year, and when you consider the other wonderful features of the Type “Z” Engine you will
understand why it is popularly known throughout the world as “a wonder at the price.”
THROTTLING GOVERNOR.—Guarantees continuous, reliable power on
varying loads, even in cold weather, and without attention. Gets greatest
power from fuel, and less fuel is required.
BUILT-IN, OSCILLATING MAGNETO.—No batteries needed; makes
engine a quick starter.
PUMP FEED for fuel eliminates fire risk and gives positive supply under
all conditions, with no readjustment.
SPEED CONTROLLER.—Gives change of speed while the engine is
running. Two balanced Flywheels help to give speed control.
The Type “Z” also has Guard for Crank-case, making the engine clean,
and safe. Water Hopper, Water-jacketed Valves, Removable Cylinder
Heads and many other important features.
And, remember this! There are many times when you will want your
engine to give you more power, and if you buy the Type “Z” you will
get it. Whether it is a 3, 6, 10 or 15 B.H.P. Type “Z” Engine—that’s
only a name-plate capacity. You always get more horse-power than you
pay for. You also get every advantage you want. Get booklet and all
particulars from any of the following—
\
m
m
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD., 9-13 Young Street, SYDNEY.
J. BARTRAM & SON PTY., LTD., SB3-586 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., 99 Eagle Street, BRISBANE,
J. WARDLE & CO., Victoria Square Street, ADELAIDE.
MALLOCH BROS., 52-54 William Street, PERTH.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD., HOBART.
and other friendly critics that about half
the book consisted of padding introduced for
impurely commercial reasons.
One of the most wordy of the worth-
while writers of to-day is Arnold Bennett.
His greatest novel, “The Old Wives’ Tale,”
contains 200,000 words, many thousands of
which could be dispensed with. In one
book he cheerfully fills the greater part of
a closely-printed page in mentioning that his
heroine got on a chair and lit the gas. Zola
occupies a similar space in informing his
readers (if any) that two persons walked
upstairs, solemnly explaining: “He went
first, walking in front of her, and she fol-
lowed behind him.” Is it to be wondered
that hundreds of intelligent persons find
Zola practically unreadable, not because he
delights in stinks and ordure, but because
he wrote like a pompons, long-winded bore?
For first-class examples of the “brisk nar-
ration” for which many modern authors are
undeservingly praised it is necessary to
wander back 450 years to Sir Thomas Malory.
“Morte d’Arthur” contains material for a
hundred novels in the Arnold Bennett man-
ner. Here is half a short story as supplied
by Malory:—•
And when Sir Lamorak alighted he tied his
horse to a privy postern, and so he went unto a
parlor and unarmed him; and then he went unto
the queen s bed, and she made of him passing great
joy, and he of her again, for either loved other
passing sore. So when the knight, Sir Gaheris, saw
his time he came to their bedside all armed, with
his sword naked, and suddenly gat his mother bv
the hair and struck off her head.
Wells or Bennett would linger over a simi-
lar adultery (leaving out the subsequent
bloodshed) for a chapter at least.
HARRISON OWEN.
“Verse, Ours and Others”
Kenneth Slessor (B. 18/12/T9) implies
that in “form” the blank verse of Zora
Cross is bad because its evenness robs it
of force. But is it bad ? Does it lack
either music or force? The best answer is
an example. Take “Outside the Gate”:—
He has gone home to her 1 must not weep,
He says.... But oh, it rains and rains upon
The road and street, and all the grass is cold
He has gone home to her; and she will climb
About his knee deliciously, and kiss
His soft, melodious moutli, and talk to him
Of all the things lie did this long, white day.
He’ll hear her children from their bedroom breathe;
And looking up from the bright fire she’ll say:
“This little ohe made two short steps to-day. .. .
And that took down a book and tried to read”....
This is their house. . . .The lights glow red within...
I must not go too near, lest I should smell
The fire, the carpets, and the scented rug,
Which fondly warms her little slippered foot.
If I might rest my cheek upon the gate—-
His gate—or touch the latch and creep away. .. .
I dare not; for the click would make her rise,
And moving to the casement, she would drop
A dear, warm tear upon the pane and say:
“How cold that poor, lost woman is outside 1”
Let anyone with a reasonable knowledge of
English literature read that and then judge
whether the remark of Kenneth Slessor is
either decent or commonly honest.
D. M. W.
" Mynhoor van Schnapps"
“J.E.” says a few words in reply:—-
Mr. P. E. Teppema, Consul-General for the Nether-
lands, seems to be wild (Bulletin 18/12/H.9) be-
cause of my review of a book on Dutch affairs, and
he makes some allusion to my manners. Wherefore
he is illogical to begin with, for he doesn’t know
me and can’t prove that I have any manners. Still
if he wants to argue about things I am willing to
hold converse with him till the cows come home
(which will be long) or till the editor’s patience
gives out (which will be short).
Re Holland belonging to Germany. —Mr. Teppema
regards this German connection as a brief affair
beginning “only in 1437”—Philip of Burgundy’s day.
But the Counts of Holland were reckoned members
of that great indefinite affair, the German Empire,
long before the year 1000. The empire took some
sort of shape when Electors were recognised about
919 (ten centuries back), so Holland was possibly
an original, shareholder. William of Holland was
qualified, as a real Hun nobleman, to become Emperor
of Germany in 1254 —as well qualified as Otto of
Brunswick was in 1208, and Otto was German
enough. On the other hand Richard the Englishman,
who followed William, was a sort of joke or foreign
mistake, and his period is described as “the Great
Interregnum.” It was another sign of the Dutch-
German connection that Berlin was founded by Dutch
settlers about 1163. When Philip of Burgundy stole
Holland from the daughter of the last Count in
1436 or 1437 he thereby became a Dutch-German
prince. He inherited the Hun status and Hun
vassalage with the steal, though no one would have
taken him for a vassal to look at him. And his son
Charles (of Holland and many other places) recog-
nised the position when he besought his titular
sovereign, the impoverished, shabby, timid Emperor
of Germany, to make him a king instead of a mere
duke. The event might have come off only the
emperor, when he came to the crowning, was terrified
at the truculent aspect of his great subject and
fled in the night. One way and another Holland
was pretty German.
Re Alleged German Nationality of Monarchs con-
nected with the Orange-Nassau Dynasty. —Mr. Tep-
pema says the grandfather of the present queen was
“not a German but William II.” I beg to suggest
that the lady may have had two grandfathers. I
had.
Re Shelter given to the late German Kaiser. —
Mr. Teppema holds that Holland’s reception and pro-
tection of the boss murderer of the world didn’t mean
sympathy. His theory is that the country couldn’t,
as a matter of “hospitality and chivalry,” refuse
William any more than it could refuse “fugitives and
soldiers of the Allied forces.” But the Kaiser wasn’t
pursued to the border like Lord Ullin’s daughter’s
best boy by armed enemies thirsting for his blood.
He wasn’t chased by rebels or revolutionaries. He
was no official fugitive. If he was sent back he
had his armies and his navy and his empire to go
back to. It wasn’t the monarch who fled across the
border. Any modern sovereign or general who has
fought according to the rules of the game, and has
nothing worse against him than that he has lost
or is likely to lose, may abdicate, or may merely
send a polite note to the head men on the other side,
but he isn’t driven to the hunted-dog act. The
man who came across and whom Holland received
was the ghastly criminal who was further outside
the law than Judas Iscariot. Holland took this rich
bolter in, though he had obviously nothing but his
crimes to bolt from. His coming had been a possi-
bility for some time, but no orders had been given to
keep the affluent baby-killer out.
The Acquisition of Great Colonies by Holland.—
When I spoke of Holland in its palmy days having
great luck in finding new lands with comparatively
few inhabitants I wasn’t thinking of places like Java
and Ceylon, but rather of New Amsterdam (now New
York) ; also of Australia and South Africa, all thinly
held by colored folk, and Brazil, weakly garrisoned
by the Portuguese. Anyhow, Holland hasn’t “the
third colonial empire of the world’’ as alleged. The
order is: (1) Britain; (2) France; (3 —unless it is
ruled out as being only a nominally independent
State, and I won’t mind much if it is) Egypt; (4 —
the Congo being now a recognised colony) Belgium ;
(5) Holland; (6 —and very close up) Portugal; (7)
United States; (8) Italy. Mr. Teppema’s statement
that Holland “became a powerful republic whose
‘short’ [that was my word] spell of greatness lasted
for the whole of the 17th and the greater part of
the 18th century” (1600 to 1800) is a trifle doubt-
ful. The Dutch lost Brazil in 1661. They lost the
New Amsterdam (now New York) province in 1667,
and though they recovered it and called it New
Orange it was lost again in 1674. They began to
lose things very early. Even if the pristine great-
ness had lasted 200 years that isn’t very long.
As regards Dutch friendliness towards the Allies,
my opinion remains the same. Also the Dutch
policy of ruining Antwerp by closure of the Scheldt
isn’t improved much by the fact that some other
States did similar things. (Nor is the Dutch mas-
sacre of the English at Amboyna improved or made
worse by massacres elsewhere.) And I submit that
the Dutch War of Independence (1568-1648), glorious
as it was, wasn’t all glitter. The Dutch were fight-
ing on their own ground. Spain, with its population
of about 9,000,000 white folk, was far away, and
having Turkey, England and France also on its
hands much of the time, as well as the job of conquer-
ing two continents, the not very imposing enemy was'
overloaded. The Dutch had occasional help from
England, France and Germany, so they weren’t on
their own. The breakage of the Armada by Eng-
land, for instance, was a perceptible lift. The last
days of the struggle had unpleasant features. About
the 60th year of the war Spain found a new general
and the Dutch, in danger of re-conquest after all,
called on France for aid. Richelieu had soldiers to
spare, but he was short of ships with which to
blockade the French Protestants of Rochelle. The
Dutch had ships and not much else. So Protestant
Holland lent Catholic France vessels with which to
defeat French Protestants, and got in return Catholic
soldiers to uphold Dutch Protestanism. That wasn’t
exactly winning by their “own valor.”
As regards Mr. Teppema’s remarks about my igno-
rance, I merely say that ignorance is the sort of thing
that may happen to anybody. I have had it before
and it may come on again.
A Satchel of Books
Gleanings from Australasian Verse-
Nature Poems, gathered by Mary E. Wil-
kinson (Wliitcombe and Tombs, Melbourne).
This is the second volume of the series, and
the selection seems better than in the first;
but the book has the same fault —it is not
representative. This is partly due to the
fact that too many writers are included.
A number of those represented by two or
three pieces have written nothing as good
as the worst that could be done by others
who are represented by only one set. The
anthology, on the whole, is not unpleasing,
but will give a false impression of the value
of Australian verse to casual readers from
other lands.
The Booming of Bunkie, by A. S. Neill
(Herbert Jenkins, London). This is broad
farce with a wide appeal. Peter writes
advertisements; Kerbet is the proprietor of
a much-advertised “kandy”; Bunkie is a
dull and forlorn Scottish village. Between
Peter and Kerbet the place is boomed into
an absolutely insane popular resort.
The Book of the Long Trail, by Henry
Newbolt (Longmans Green, London). This
is a capital book for boys and a fair refer-
ence work of the doings of the best-known
explorers. There is no attempt at fine writ-
ing, but the yarns are told simply and with
reasonable accuracy. Franklin, Burton,
Livingstone, Stanley, Burke and Wills,
Younghusband, Scott and Wollaston are the
people dealt with. A good Christmas book
for a boy.
Love of Brothers, by Katherino Tynan
(Constable, London). A lot of good people
and beautiful horses and dogs are grouped
in a little corner of Ireland. All the folk
revolve round an absorbing mystery plot,
and there is a good love story. Katherine
Tynan creates fine atmosphere, and has a
style so simple and every way honest that
sentence glides after sentence without effort
to the reader. Not an important book, but
very pleasant.
Working My Way Around the World, by
Lena M. Franck (Allen and Unwin, Lon-
don). An abbreviated and re-arranged edition
of Harry Franck’s “Vagabond Journey
Round the World” —one of the most interest-
ing one-man travel books ever written. The
clipping has been badly done. But the new
“edition may help to evoke another issue of
the original; and that is the best that can
be said of it.
The Inky Way
' “Yeronga”: If French gave Smith Dor-
rien no credit in his book (B. 11/12/’l9)
he didn’t stint it in his despatch. Henry
Newbolt, in his Tales of the Great War,
written long before the controversy between
the generals was thought of, gave a fine
account of Smith Dorrien’s dogged battle
in opposition to French’s wishes, and Ins
withdrawal in French’s footsteps, and fin-
ally quotes French’s despatch :
I say without hesitation that the saving of the
left wing of the army under my command on the
morning of August 26 could never been
accomplished unless a commander of rare and un-
usual coolness, intrepidity and determination had
been present to personally conduct the operation.
“Inglewood”: Tom Skeyhill, in his
American notes for the Red Page, referred
lately to the controversy in the U.S.A." as
to whether the new English girl-writer Daisy
Ashford, introduced by J. M. Barrie, had
a real existence. She is real all right. I
was one of the unfortunates who spent a
little enforced time in Germany and was for
16 months interned in Switzerland. I lived
for 10 of those months in Berne, and whilst
there I knew Miss Ashford quite well. At
that time she was doing war work at the
British Legation, and in her spare time was
more interested in jazzing and having a good
time generally than in literature. She and
a party of other equally charming English
girls had a delightful flat, and their
Bohemian evenings were outstanding events
in the rather dull social life of the English
set in Berne during the war.


VO
%
hi*;
m
f'
*
«rf'
»8.
i>S2
£
5101 M
\-jj.
m
m
m
80
JS&$B
TftLL
IWMHT 1 jwwwvwswwn
giiiTg
■■(■IBM
aaa
i
wiftjtfaa
<-vss
'
sssss
a a
■ I
a
' a
ijhfi
m
I
w
r
as
ii
SSTW
M
II
as
mi
J-.'w
Z;
1
#**
im
m
art
mwi
■m
i
is
»»
«
Satisfaction
SATISFACTION in the ownership of a perfect car is the result of
deliberate and careful choice.
WILLYS-KNIGHT Motor-cars give the satisfaction demanded by
owners who insist on a car-de-luxe, combined with utility.
Pleasing in its proportions, satisfying in its lines and finish, and
equipped with the famous WILLYS-KNIGHT sleeve-valve engine,
your satisfaction is assured. Other engines deteriorate, but the
WILLYS-KNIGHT improves with use.
You should inspect a WILLYS-KNIGHT motor -car soon.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney.
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD., Melbourne
AUTO-CARS LTD., Adelaide.
EAGER & SON, Brisbane.
ANDERSON & ADAMS LTD., Perth.
H. G. HEATHORNE & CO. Ltd., Hobart.
A. HATRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION. Christchurch, N.Z.
THE JOHN N. WILLYS EXPORT CORPORATION
165 Broadway, NEW YORK, U. S. A.


He
Catches
the Eye, f
and he will catch
buyers’ eyes at Home-
bush.
Winchcombe,
Carson
will see to that. They
are expert salesmen,
alert and energetic.
CONSIGN STOCK:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Remington Siding LTD.
T
That Car Radiator
is Always Giving
You Trouble.
<&*
Why not send it
to Brandt’s, who
will put it in A 1
order or make
you a new one?
We also make Motor-car Acetylene
Generators, Lamps, Carburetter Floats,
etc.
Best Swedish Carbide stocked in all
Granulations.
BRANDT BROS. LTD.,
“Radiator Manufacturers,”
236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And 338 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Williams
Talc Powder 1
TRY Williams' Vio-
let Talcum Powder.
Learn how fine and
smooth it is how
delicate and pleasing
is the delightful per-
fume — how refresh-
ing it is to your skin.
The patented hinged cover
which opens with press of
thumb makes it easy to use
the powder and retains the
full fragrance of the per-
fume in all in' freshness.
Choose also from Williams’
Carnation, English Lilac,
La Tosca Rose, Matinee
(new) and Baby Talc
all equally delightful and
soothing.
Williams’
Talc Powder
V.OLtT
r*
.;*.n
NET WT 4 O Z
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton. England
'AWsw&mi/m
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
fd
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
hfd
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES-Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS;
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Buildings.
am
mm
•i i w
PORTLAND
VICTORIA.
FOR PRIVATE SALE, “MARETIMO,”
CHARMING SEASIDE HOME.
Ideal Position, Magnificent Ocean View, Handsome Substantial Stone Mansion,
Twenty Rooms, Wide Verandahs, Conservatory, &c.
FIFTY-ONE ACRES LAND.
Well laid-out grounds, tennis court, orchard, extensive outbuildings, stables,
garage, five-roomed gardener’s cottage, bathing-box, telephone, &c.
A GREAT OPPORTUNITY to secure a gentleman’s Seaside Residence, Fully
Furnished; Owner Giving Up Housekeeping. Particulars and photo-views of the
property supplied upon application to
T. H. LAIDLAW & CO., Hamilton and Melbourne;
and J. L. WYATT, Portland;
From whom also permits for inspection can be obtained.
ilium mint iummiiimimiii-Liiiii
The All/
British.
■jj ■■—'l
oiawtaaru
LIGHT CAR
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
Send your inquiry for early delivery to Agents :
I. PHIZACKERLEY, SYDNEY.
STANDARD MOTOR CO. LTD.,
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
VI
m
THE PALACE HOTEL
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
The O.C.S. Automatic Weighing Machine
FOR FREE RUNNING MATERIALS. NO POWER REQUIRED.
Manufacturers and Im-
porters of—
Boiler Flour Mill
Machinery
Oatmeal Mill Machinery
Brewers’ and Malsters’
Machinery
Superphosphate
Machinery
Elevators of various
designs
Apron Conveyors,
Gravity Conveyors
Adjustable Feeders
and Mixers
Flour and Bran Packers
'Grinding Mills for all
Classes of Materials
Bottle-tilling Machines
for Piccalilli, etc.
£m.
Size F 4.
Far mere’ Grain
Cleaners
Fink Belting
Sprocket Wheels
Elevator Buckets
Complete Grinding and
Dressing Plants for
Sugar, Spices, Starch,
Paint, etc.
Package Elevators
Bag Holders
Disc Grinding Mills
Malt Boiler Mills
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
SUPPORT OUR OWN INDUSTRIES.
ScKumackr Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.,
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [l
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Araminta”: Some of these “Diggers’
friends” in business have their patriotism
heavily diluted. Lately I set forth to buy
a large, serviceable floor-rug of a kind in
common demand. I visited eight shops alto-
gether, and found that one particular make
and pattern was handled by seven of them.
The prices for this rug varied considerably.
That’s the usual thing, of course, and more
usual now than ever, even the wholesale
houses charging different prices to the re-
tailer in hundreds of every-day lines. What
struck me as quite unforgivable was the
fact that, of the seven shops stocking the
rug in question, the top price was asked by
the concern advertising most loudly its desire
to serve Billjim, the price being 15s. above
the lowest of the others.
“Obs”: This notice in the window of a
house in Darlinghurst (Sydney) called me
in; “Socks darned and repaired here; also
shirts, underclothes and handkerchiefs.” I
interviewed the little old woman who had
turned herself into a public benefactor, and
that night delivered a bundle of repairs.
“Call this day week,” was the order—“so
much work in, they can’t be done before.”
The Song of the Shirt has a much more
cheerful ring these times.
* * * *
“Canuck”: So “Pariah” was moved to
envy at the sight of three cartloads of toma-
toes going from a northern suburb of Sydney
to Melbourne. Well, it’s a blessing some-
body can grow the fruit. We in the Cab-
bage Garden can’t. Burwood and Moorab-
bin used to raise tons; half a crown a case
used to pay well. But since 1916 the vege-
table has acquired some new disease, which
steadily gets worse. Some say it’s Irish
blight and blame the spud; others aver it
is “in the air.” Whatever it is, most of
the Burwood growers have already ploughed
over the little patches they took a risk on
this season. Two men I know put in
several ,thousand plants each on land that
hadn’t been cultivated for a score of years,
but within half a mile of where there used
to be heavy crops. Those thousands are now
manuring the soil —a dead loss. We have
sprayed and cultivated and worked and left
alone—and it’s all the same.
* * * *
“Cephas”: Another 25 years of war and
Australia would have been a self-reliant
country. For years monumental and other
masons had been relying on Germany for
such simple things in the way of “tools of
trade” as certain varieties of dressing-
stone for use in the machines employed
for finishing marble imported in the rough.
When war came one firm had on the water
a shipment of such stones. When it failed
to arrive these people made experiments, and
discovered that Groperland magnesite made
an excellent substitute. Result: the local
article is now firmly established, and is the
only one used. Again, huge quantities of
cheap marble (Belgian and Italian) were
formerly imported for washstand-tops, cafe
table-tops, etc. Freight having increased so
enormously, an imitation marble (on the
concrete principle) was made, and is now
available in almost any design. The supply
cannot keep up with the demand.
DOING IT NOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Go to the ant, thou sluggard.”— Solomon.
The world is round and the soil is deep
Betwixt its ridges of rock and stone;
And it swings with its horses and cows and sheep
And its folk awake and its folk asleep
On an orbit all its own.
The jungle shakes to the tiger’s roar,
Seas foam at the sperm-whale’s dive;
Men give their lives to a talking bore,
But the ant gets ready his winter store
To see that his antlets thrive.
Go to the ant and mark him well
When the politicians prate.
He has nothing to buy and nothing to sell,
Yet he works all day like a telephone bell,
For sloth is a thing to hate.
His motto is always “Do it now”;
He delves and he mines with zeal,
He makes no fuss and he makes no row,
No matter what sweat may damp his brow.
Or what blisters of toil must heal.
He has never been known to strike or shirk,
He is never a profiteer;
His one desire is to do more work
And find his treasure where treasures lurk
As the grass-seed swells in the ear.
Up and down for a thousand days
And round for a thousand more,
The haste he makes is beyond all praise,
As Solomon, marking his business ways,
Proclaimed at his palace door.
Though he doesn’t know Sunday from Christmas Day,
Nor guess what a Bible means,
He feels like a Sunday-school making hay,
With religious precepts that still display
An accurate counting of beans.
Go to the ant. Well, I’ve often been there —
In fact, to a million or so.
He is all that they claim, I solemnly swear,
With his graft to do and his wrongs to bear,
And he simply can’t “go slow.”
But I’d like to mention in Solomon’s ear
A fact that he missed, no doubt —
That, though the ant may deserve a cheer
For his toil, it is never sufficiently clear
What the toiling is all about.
He “does it now,” there is no mistake;
His aim must be pure and true.
He stays his seventeen hours awake,
And goes all the time with never a break,
But what, please what, does he do?
And that reminds me, as Solomon’s wise
And my ignorance much to blame,
I want to ask him his own surmise
As to ink and soap and wheat and lies,
And fortunes made and folks that “rise,”
And Algy’s socks and Tercy’s ties—
Now — what — the — deuce — is — the—game?
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


The Teale Tlayer-Tiano
an Ideal Teacher
N THE EARLY YEARS
as
m
of musical effort attainment
seems difficult and far away.
Youth is ever impetuous—easily dis-
couraged— "Si jeunesse savait—si viellesse
pouvait. ” It is only with the latter years
comes the full realisation for the neces-
sary study The Tledle dPlayer-Tiano
helps to sustain youthful interest. It
may be used to play the finest composi-
tions in the musical world, with perfect
technique and soulful interpretation.
Then, when closed, it can be used for
practising purposes.
Descriptive matter posted free
f jjlllfifeinminiwiiiiiw^
1 BEALE
1 AND COMPANY LTD. 1
SHOWROOMS:
333 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
FACTORY:
4i-47 TRAFALGAR ST.
-ANNAN DALE
BRANCHES—N.S.W.: Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goul-
bum, Wagga. Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania :
Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia : John
Evans Ltd., Adelaide. Queensland : 90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane ; Kent
Street Maryborough ; Flinders Street, Townsville ; Rockhampton ; and
Sydney Street, Mackay; Cairns.
r- -„ s^H||
Hpi
111
V
A-P IV? ' |'' ' 'f%\ .;'
Sals
- , .. . ■ ■
WiS
ill
m :
-»
nraHM
IH|
pi » . r
:' r; : -
. . .
wmmKMmm
a, I
m
m
wmm.
■','; ■ . %
I "
#
I -J
\
*
iH
f*
:
■A i -;1
;
*¥p
■
ss
1111111
.
2s> 1
■■l
m i
MR
JMm
mm
Mg:
m
M
: Y
' .
; v
mam
i .
SB
WaMm. x ' 1
;
: .
1= •
rntetm
fi
ir :■ ■ *
:;
2, -«• ••;:•.
Sti
•ißaißiii
' ,’y.v
HI
— i ;n
lip (i
> a&lHi
■■ 4 MpL ’§£■
slf *■*-
s ]
■'"~~iaWHWpte .11
I
Hr
™ *
i
If
t.
Hi
llil K
11 i
•'■ : ■. " :
5
■lll
§»«<>: «: mmm
JS i
■.-■• n
HI
H ■ . S ■■ Sljf -: ..;■,
1: . .. -. • -
i.K
£
I!
I §ll|
m
m
■IV. ; ■'
■


h
HOLEPROOF HOSE
have been bought by
millions of people for
many years . That fact
alone is proof enough
of extraordinary,
value.
Have you ever thought
what YOU may be mis-
sing by going without this
brand ?
Here is practically . . .
ABSOLUTE FREEDOM
from darning qnd you
have the choice of pure
silk and fine lisle.
fdh
If your
dealer is
unable to
supply you,
write us.
Indents and
Wholesale thru
ALTER
<• A T H R O
PTY. LTD.
r o Yo p k st,
SYDNEY.
Jfiraf
BULLDOG
GRIP
THE SEIF VULCANIZING
V PATCH V
WILt. REPAIR >
, ANY SIZE PUNCTURE,
BLOWOUT OR TORN PLACE'
OBTAINABLE AT ALL GARAfiES
PRODUCED ENTIRELY
IN AUSTRALIA.
DRAWS
OUT
THE POISONS
which cauS'.e Bar coo Rot,
Bad Legs, Sore Feet,
Carbuncles, Boils,
Poisoned Wounds,
Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, and
those arising from Insect
Bites,
The Proprietors of
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT
have an absolute confidence in its un-
surpassed merits. They know it to be a
safe and perfect cure for all skin and
blood ailments; and the vast number of
testimonials received prove this.
GRASSHOPPER positively
draws the poisons which produce
these maladies out of the system.
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifier,
and for those who suffer from headaches, the
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do not be persuaded
to purchase any substitute preparations.
Sold by all Drug Stores and Chemists
throughout the Commonwealth.
H. G. HARMER, L.R.1.8.A, C.E,
ESTABLISHED 1907,
having taken into partnership
A. C. LAVINGTON,
will henceforth practise as
HARMER & LAVINGTON,
architects
and
CONSUETING CIVIE ENGINEERS.
SPECIALISTS IN RE-INFORCED CONCRETE,
TIMBER AND STEEL STRUCTURES.
SILOS, WOOLSHEDS, TANKS, FACTORIES
AND HOMESTEADS.
Country work a Specialty.
’Phone: City 50. Rox 468 G.P.O.
52 WAR LOAN CHAMBERS,
114 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price foi it.
Are you sure that's—
PLUME
That is what careful motorists say.
They feel sure then of getting
Benzine that will ensure easy start-
ing, sweet running, more miles.
It is significant that Plume is the
choice of Government flying men,
Government Departments, Fire
Brigades, Ambulance Associations,
and thousands of motorists.
Put Plume to the test in your car.
Follow the example of the men
who say:
“Are you sure
that’s Plume?”
A
V
&
s
"HI
1
.
Vacuum Oil Company
Lty. Ltd.
P 20
KING OF TABLE ‘WATERS
Sparlclind—fieuw
jnosicn.
TRY IT WITH A SLICE OF LEMON
EIOWI
FTY
LTB
■ %v.* 1
*•* :« r 2’
*s*
H l
UTHI* _
. %
USTRAUAN
E.RoWL>ft9g:
\
£ MIURAT.PIE
fo
ofia
OISTILLEOINAUST#*^
llUusrfiAi iam nKTiiiCW^"4'
USTRAIIAN UISTIUt
M«L*OUftNt.
A pure and perfectly dis- ,
■ distilled spirit of high medicinal I
value. GOVEKNMENT GUARANTEED'
ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED CROCERS
II
i I L
DRY GIN
fdh
Among the informal votes recorded at
Parkes (N.S.W.). was one dropped in the
box by an elector who had no time for any
of the Senate candidates. He had scrawled
“N. B. G. the lot” across the ballot-paper
and sent it on with the rest. '
A bull gored a man at Parramatta the
other day. The first telephoned re-
port set down that the victim was “bored
by a fool” and died. The police theory at
the time was that he had perished at a
political meeting.
Latest excuse received by a Vic. State-
school teacher: '"This is to certify that
Tommy was kicked by a horse l —from the
7th to the 14th December.” Tommy, whose
absence for a week was thus accounted for,
brought the apology along himself.
The latest fantastic theatre idea from
America is a play called “Look and Listen!”
Some scenes are played in dumb show, with
fto word spoken ; others have plenty of dia-
logue, but a blacked-out stage. Thus the
ear and the eye get equal chances, but
separately. The novelty has brought the
show a fair success.
Cotter succeeded in having included in the
Licensing Bill when it was running its last
lap in the Vic. Assembly provision for a sup-
plementary list of registered barmaids.
Hebe has already had two chances to enrol
for the close corporation that has been
granted her, and about 3000 of her toed the
mark. It is necessary to note down a
general description of the lady to discourage
impersonation, and this job falls to the Labor
Department.
“Dido”: He’d made his pile during the
war, and was one of a party entertaining a
departing business magnate. When the wine
was brought on, he looked at the bottle near
him, swathed in a serviette, and reposing in
a little wicker contrivance like a doll in t.
cot. “What is it—that thing the wine’s in?”
he whispered to a neighbor. “That’s a
cradle,” was the reply. Then the bright
spirit awakened to recollection. “Oh, yes.”
said he. “That’ll be the invalid port I’ve
read about!”
“J.F.H.” (London) : Old Melbournian
Oswald Stoll has a real, live peer of the
realm on his Coliseum bill. Lord Lyveden is
anything blit beautiful to behold, big, beefy,
elderly, and a poor player. He appears in an
undistinguished sketch called “A Little
Camouflage,” impersonating a retired old
admiral who pretends to fall asleep, overhears
things, and thus saves a reckless young
nephew from the wiles and entanglements of
an audacious adventuress in a dazzle dress.
But he does it so badly that one critic sug-
gests that the House of Lords should seek
a legal injunction to .stop the bringing of that
ancient body into public derision and private
contempt.
From a bush-girl who is holiday-making:
This morning I saw David Lindsay, the 'explorer,
in Sydney, just down from Port Darwin. In
his Smart town kit one would pass him for a wealthy
squatter or a laird dropping in to his club for a
Scotch and chat; and one would say in passing, “A
fine man!” He is. He does magnificent exploring
and survey work in the Territory. He probably
knows more of the Overland and Central Australia,
with its mining and grazing »and other wealth and
possibilities, than any other man. Forty-five years
he has been learning it, and it’s nearly 30 since lie
explored Arnheim’s Land, in the N.T., for the b.
Aus. Government. As a man his fine physique and
fresh, clean eyes, looking squarely at one, are a
decoration with bar for the can’t-live-in-the-tropics
Territor}’. A modest man, he’ll tell you about his
boys, all soldiers; and his daughter, who did five
years’ splendid service at the Front. But of him-
self and his fine record for Australia, not a word!
“5.N.0.” tells how the Digger dodged the
wolf: —
Everybody except the Digger knows that the A. 1.8.
was the best paid, best fed and best-clothed force
in the field. Opulence there was in some cases, but
the pinch of poverty was often a very real thing
to our fellows. How did they manage in the inter-
vals of getting money from home? Head work—ail
headwork.
Our footsloggers did not often return from a
hop-over empty-handed. I have seen them bulg-
ing with automatic revolvers, watches, rings and
other ‘.‘souvenirs.” There was good money in
“souvenirs.” Automatics always brought fancy
prices—-more especially after the final cease fire,
when the source dried up and late arrivals were
anxious to have something to show their inquisitive
offspring.
The “national game” can hardly be said to have
increased the sum of the A.l.F.’s wealth, except in
cases where outsiders were considerately allowed to
invest their pay. But someone always profited.
The “dugout spin” should certainly receive a place
in Australia’s history of the war; also a couple of
burnished pennies would not be out of focus in
our war museums.
It was not until the troops went to Belgium as
part of the army-of-occupation that business really
boomed. The troops who were not accomplished
linguists were frequently discovered looking up
French vocabularies for such words as “blanket,”
“shirt” aud “socks” in order to be able to talk
business with the willing citizens of Charleroi. “Com-
bien-street” of that town became a place well known
to the Diggers. The origin of the name is not hard
to guess. A man having any clothing for sale had
only to walk down the street with a bundle under
his arm and he would be stopped and asked by
a Belgian, “Combien?” —how much? Trade gener-
ally followed. The Germans had been in possession
for so long- that the Belgians had very little of the
necessaries of life. Food, especially meat, was verj
scarce, while clothing was practically unprocurable.
In this condition the people were eager to buy
much-abused bully beef at a couple of francs per
tin; army blankets changed hands at anything up
to 20 francs (155.), and leather was fit fabulous
prices. If a Digger went to Brussels with his .over-
coat "pockets crammed with half-soles, he could
count on a good week’s holiday. Chocolate had the
same commercial value among the civilians of
Cologne.
Troop trains coming up from Boulogne and Havie
to Charleroi were productive of many humorous inci-
dents. At Mons the Belgians would begin crowding
to the train in quest of bargains, and the troops
for the time became auctioneers. All manner of
clothing and edibles were sold, and railway workers
carrying army blankets wrapped under their coats,
and with pockets full of bully-beef, made haste to
get away before meeting any police. As can be
imagined, the heads did not encourage this barter-
ing of army material. It got on very well, how-
ever, even without encouragement, and the aristo-
cratic ladies of the province of Namur were soon
resplendent in models made of issue blankets.


STORAGE
BATTERY
JfiSiSLtjm vWW *XZBn
.woroWK- Tnggipff¥ a ■rfKmi^gsMhgMfc
Willard Threaded Rubber Insulation
111
■raJ*
m
mm
mm m
is
..; ... .;
. .
■ ' ; ■ i
*
.
?
' I
I
m •■- . ;
*
'£ • i
1 \C
n
m
m
■■Hi
HkHi
*ll
... - ■ ■.. ■ ■■ ■■.
<' ,
H
IiQS
: ■ , ■
ia
R ■
L
■
a*!!
: ■.
.. »•;
■
tl»
.
• .
: .
■ •;
' M
mm
mm
■
■
iiiiiii
■
Wmm:
HHfellte;
'
.
,; -v.
-
•J
■■■■■■■
*w. $? ? - -l &
.
M ,
■*
Hi
/p>
©
o
The boss often says to me, “You can’t control the way a man
feels when he drives into this place—he may be paying a friendly call
to get information, he may be towed in because of battery trouble, he
may be happy, or angry, or half-way between.
But one thing you can always do; send him away satisfied.”
And that smy job. When the job’s done it will be done right.
If you want advice, if you want service, if you want repairs, if you need
a new battery, come to battery service headquarters.
No one can have your interest more at heart than the company
who first organised trained battery service, whose batteries are
installed by the great majority of American car builders, and who
developed the Bone Dry Willard with Threaded Rubber Insulation.
Willard Service.


CUTICUM
CLEARS
DANDRUFF
Little girl’s head covered with dan-
druff which irritated causing loss of
sleep. Scratched and head became
slightly inflamed. Suffered six weeks
and hair became dry and came out in
handfuls. Other remedies did no good
so sent for sample Cuticura. Bought
more Soap and Ointment and after a
few weeks treatment all signs of dan-
druff had disappeared.
From signed statement of Mrs.'
James Lee, Koorawalyee, W. A.
For hair and skin health Cuticura
Soap assisted by the Ointment is
supreme for every-day toilet purposes.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
I Sold by dealers throughout the world.
cJhe largest selling
quality pencil in.
ihejyvoxlA
\/ENUS
V PENCILS
r
fd
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN
BUSINESS MEN
anti are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Solti Everywhere.
THE. GRESHAM,
Brisbane’s Leading Hotel,
4&1>0
PARIS
GARTERS
No metal
can touch you \
“ Paris’' Garters
Comfortable Garters.
Look for the trademark
—pour assurance of value
and service.
Obtainable all Mercers.
Stein & Co.. Makers. Chicago, New Yoik.
Indents and Wholesale:
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd., 50 York St., Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Cantunua,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1.596. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALI.INC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT,
S> GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, England
Insist on “Singleton's”—refuse all substitutes.
INFLUENZA
Used In the Melbourne Hospitals
Brooke’s “Lemos”
The Purest Lemon Squash.
/,
-a B
% ~
\ ~- L
F air banks - Morse
“Z” ENGINES
iy 2 H. P. to IS H. P.
Economically Use Kerosene
HERE is an engine built for all farm work. Whether
you need power for driving a small churn or separa*
tor, or whether you want to run a large pump or
corn sheller —a Fairbanks-Morse *'Z" engine is the most
economical engine you can buy. Full power at lowest cost.
The "Z” engines have Built-in Oscillating Magneto,
Throttling Governor, Speed Controller, Make and Break
Ignition, Close Speed Regulation, Removable Bushings in
Bearings. They operate on either kerosene or petrol.
With every “Z” engine, you get Fairbanks-Morse
Quality the assurance of the utmost in enduring
engine value.
Glso rumen
"Disifllato
eoalQi
*X>psor
Petrol
DANGAR, GEDYE & COMPANY, I.TD., Sydney.
JAMES WABDEE & COMPANY, Adelaide.
JANIES BART RAM & SONS, LTD., Melbourne.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Brisbane.
MALEOCH BROTHERS, Perth.
DONALD & SONS, LTD., Masterton, N.Z.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD., Hobart, Tasmania.
Foreign Dept., NEW YORK, U. S. A.
LONDON, ENGLAND BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA
-YALE-
B
Home
Protection
When the natural protec-
tor is absent a mechanical
contrivance must take his
place.
For real home protection a
Yale Cylinder Night Latch can
not be surpassed.
There is only one way to un-
lock a Yale Cylinder Night
Latch and that is with the key
that was made for it.
The pin-tumbler mechanism is
the secret of its security and
there is no case on record of a
burglar having ever picked one
under conditions of actual use.
With a Yale Cylinder Night Latch on
your door malicious intruders are
barred out.
You can make certain by seeing the
trademark “Yale” on the product you
buy. It’s on every Yale Night Latch,
Padlock, Door Closer, Bank Lock, Chain
Block or piece of Yale Builders’
Hardware.
THE YALE & TOWNE MFG. CO.
Ettablithed 1868
New York
U. S. A.
hfd
hfd
<mD TRIPLEX BLOCKS
Special feature#: —
1 Hoists twice a# fast as a screw-geared block.
o Continuous Hand Chain Guide, permitting rapid lowering.
3 Rated on long ton(224olb.)and tested to 50% overload(336olb.).
4 Can be fitted to any length of lift.
5 Spare parts available..
0 Hand and Electric Blocks available from stock.
FRANK R. PERROT, Sole Australian Agent,
334 Kent Street, Sydney; 883 Hay Street, Perth.
L. BANNISTER, 39 Queen Street, Melbourne.
EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., 121 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
The Green-fanged Camel.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SHROUDED in winter fog, the great
A.I.F. camp at Zeitoun lay asleep,
wanting an hour to the time
when reveille would waken it to the
day’s work. Along the rows of huts,
his hands shoved deep in the pockets
of . a great-coat, his face almost hidden
by a gorgeous woollen comforter, slouched
a solitary Digger, known to every man in
his company as Bluey. For the twentieth
time within an hour he glanced at his
wristlet watch, thanking all the gods that
daybreak, bringing his relief, was close at
hand, and .varying his thanks with copious
curses upon the heads who had seen lit to
initiate an all-night picquet and simul-
taneously lock up with great care the store-
room of the officers’ mess.
From over towards Mattourea, where the
Oyppo troops and camels were camped, came
the sound of something moving rapidly
across the sand. Looking up without in-
terest, Bluey became aware of a blurred
mass looming up through the fog. Swiftly
the object resolved itself into the shape of a
big bull camel, its long neck extended, and
foam flying from its ugly green teeth. With
bulging eyes the picquet stared at the
apparition, which, suddenly becoming aware
of the presence of something human,
swerved slightly and bore down upon* h'm.
With a yell Bluey came to life, and a
second later a dopey picquet had become a
flying streak of red-topped khaki shedding
coat and balaclava as he flew, while all the
tales he had heard and scoffed at of bull
camels going magnoon in the grip of fanat-
ical love madness came crowding to his
brains. An article in the previous day’s
Egyptian Times, luridly describing how a
Gyppo had died after being nearly torn to
pieces by one of the mad brutes —good God !
and he had laughed at the idea of such a
thing!
Round the deserted cookhouses, across the
parade-ground, and up between the lines of
huts they raced with barely a length be-
tween them, until Bluey, his breath coming
in great sobs, his heart thudding behind his
ears, swung through the open doorway of a
hut, swung to the right, and dived as far
as he could across his sleeping cobbers.
Without slackening speed, but leaving a
piece of his hump on top of the doorway, the
lunatic followed.
Sleeping by the far door, my first intima-
tion of anything wrong came from various
feet that trampled on my face. Without know-
ing or worrying why, I poured myself out
on the freezing sand with the rest, some of
whom had been trodden on by the camel.
He could be heard now in the semi-darkness
of the hut, running amok over bedding, mess-
tins and equipment of all sorts. Presently,
however, observing us grouped together, he
left some more hump on the doorway as he
hurried out and charged the crowd. Clad
for the most part in singlets, the crowd
departed immediately and at top speed.
No one fancying the experiment of break-
ing away and giving the brute a straight
course, the chase resolved itself into a pro-
cession round and round the hut, until the
leaders were almost catching up with the
cause of the trouble, who fortunately never
took it into his ugly head to suddenly re-
verse. One by one we slipped away through
door or window as we passed, until the evil
smell was tearing round and round by itself.
Becoming tired of this, its attention was
arrested by a near-by tent, the home of the
Regimental Military Police. Standing in
front, the brute expressed his opinion of all
M.P.’s bv gurgling deep in his water cis-
tern, making a row like a burst sewer. Then,
taking a flying leap, he landed on the tent,
bringing it down like a burst balloon just
as the last M.P. emerged into safety by
crawling out at the back.
By this time half the camp was awake and
in uproar. Hundreds of Diggers shivering
in their singlets were enjoying the sight of a
mad bull-camel doing a war-dance on ;md
tearing up the home of their beloved M.P. s.
Suddenly the lunatic lifted his head and gazed
across through the fog in the direction of
headquarters, whence a second later emerged
the figure of a Tommy sergeant-major. See-
ing only a crowd of almost naked Diggers,
who should according to Army Regulations
still have been asleep, his eyes began to bulge.
“What the hell’s the meanin’ of all this
row?” he demanded in a voice like a ship’s
siren. “Where the”-— — Impressed by the
fixity of our attention on his right flank, he
glanced over his shoulder, and saw the
magnoon beast coming at him at full speed.
With his mouth still wide open he jumped
into his stride and flew, and in two seconds
they had vanished into the fog in the direc-
tion of the Maoriland lines.
Now, when 1 hear someone describe the
camel as a docile, patient animal, my mind
goes back to a freezing morning in Egypt, of
myself sprinting for life over the frosty sand,
and of long, dripping green fangs reaching
for, and possibly meeting in, some rear
portion of a most dignified sergeant-major of
the British Army.
TIN HAT.
One of the saddest stories ever told was
related recently to the Vic. National Council
of Women by a lady who got it from her
husband. He had assured her that “he hated
to stand over his typiste for dictation, as
she wore only a light diaphanous garment,
and' it was possible to see almost to the
waist.” Evidently the poor man professed
to talk as though he wished she wouldn’t.
“Waist not, want not,” as the proverb says.
“Good Australian” : Toutcher, M.L.A. for
Ararat (Vic.), has very properly called the
attention of the Assembly to a grave menace
to Australia’s wool industry. For some time
past Japanese have been buying the very
best stud sheep for export to Japan on be-
half of the Japanese Government. Premier
Lawson made a half-hearted reply that he
had no official knowledge of the export of
stud sheep, but would inquire into it,
although he regarded the prohibition of the
exportation of sheep as a Federal, and not a
State, business. And probably the matter
will end there. But what kind of patriotism
is it that urges a pastoralist to sell stud
rams to these people? Would they do
it to us?


ROSS SMITH
FIRST to fly from
ENGLAND to
AUSTRALIA,
ft
S)
■'A
hfd
* FIRST THE WORLD OYER
“Captain Ross Smith landed at Darwin, trim and clean-shaven.”
« —News item.
A shave is simple, safe and easy under any
conditions to the man who owns a Gillette.
No stropping, no honing.
GET YOURS TO-DAY!
23/6 at all stores catering for men’s needs.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO. LTD., Sydney,
Wholesale Agents.
Look for the Diamond Trade-marlc.
m
ms
&m
mm
mm
m
m
IM
The Ideal llluminant for Your Home.
If your home lighting 1 is secured from acetylene gas, the very best Carbide
that you can use is “TASMA”—
The Australian Carbide.
Tasma Carbide has been thoroughly tested, and has been proved to be
the equal of the best European Carbide hitherto imported, it is free from
phosphorus and other poisonous gases, reaches a high standard in burning
value and quality of light, and is decidedly the most economical Carbide
that you can buy. Specify “Tasma” Carbide and support Australian
Industry.
If your Storekeeper cannot supply, write for full particulars t(
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS —
VICTORIA: Noyes Bros. (Melb.) Pty., Ltd., 499-501 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Noyes Bros. (Sydney), Ltd., Clarence
Street, Sydney
QUEENSLAND: Samuel Allen & Sons, Ltd., Brisbane and Towns-
ville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Arthur H. I-lasell, Tort Adelaide
WEST AUSTRALIA: Arthur H. Hasell. Perth.
TASMANIA: Gillies Bros., 74 Collins Street, Hobart.
An Australian Industry
h
M
AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET
OF THE
Bank of New South Wales, 30th September, 1919.
„ LIABILITIES.
Aotes in Circulation
Deposits, Accrued Interest, and Rebate
1042,343
45,700,721
0 0
13 5
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (which include Reserves held for
Doubtful Debts and Amounts at Credit of Investments Fluctuation
Account, and amounts due to other Banks)
Paid-up Capital bearing
6 Months’ Dividend . . . . £3,981,540 0 0
3 Months’ Dividend .. .. 38,460 0 0
Reserve Fund
Profit and Loss . .
Less Interim Dividend to 30tli
June, 1919 ..
£439,738 13 11
£4,000,000 0 0
3,100,000 0 0
99,038 10 0
340,700 3 11
£40,343,064 13 5
10,662,272 1 3
7,440,700 3 11
Contingent Liabilities-
Outstanding Credits as per contra
£64,446,036 IS 7
2,590,212 10 7
£67,036,249 9 2
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion and Cash Balances
Australian Commonwealth Notes
Fiji Government Notes
Notes of other Banks
Money at short call in London
Short-dated British Treasury Bills. .
Investments —British and Colonial Government
Securities
Municipal and other Securities
Due by other Banks
Bills Receivable in London and Remittances in
transit
£9.130,521 9
4,776,465 10
41,685 0
104,892 10
1.920,000 0
1,600,000 0
8.045,980
754 634
253,067
Advances under Government Wheat Scheme
War Loan Advances (Australia and New Zealand)
Bills Discounted, and Loans and Advances to Customers
Bank Premises..
4,467,103 14 7
£31,094,349 12
965,058 18
2,130,525 0
29,456,103 7
800,000 0
Liabilities of Customers and others on Letters of Credit, as per contra
£64.446,036 18
2,590,212 10
£67,036,249 9 2
PROFIT AND LOSS, 30th SEPTEMBER, 1919.
To Interim Dividend for Quarter ended 30th June,
cent, per annum, paid in terms of Clause CV. of
out of the Half-year’s Profits
Balance proposed to be dealt with as follows: ' ’
To Quarter’s Dividend to 30th Sept., 1919. at the
rate of 10 per cent, per annum out of the Ilalf-
year’s Profits
: Interest at 5 per cent, per annum to 30th
June, 19PJ, on Capital paid in advance on
other than the fixed dates in respect of new
Shares on the London Share Register
„ Augmentation of the Reserve Fund
„ Balance carried forward
1919. at 10 per
Deed of Settlement
£lOO.OOO 0 0
329 19 0
100.000 0 0
140,370 4 5
£99,038 10 0
340,700 3 11
£439.738 13 11
By Amount from last Account . .
Balance of Half-year’s Profits after deducting Rebate on Current
Bills, Interest on Deposits, paying Income, Land and other
Taxes, amounting to £07,877 (making in all £194.130 for the
year), reducing valuation of Bank Premises, providing for. Bad
and Doubtful Debts, and fluctuations m the value of Investment
Securities, and including recoveries from Debts previously written
off as bad
£137,313 5 7
302,425 8 4
£439,738 13 11
Dr.
%
RESERVE FUND, 30th SEPTEMBER, 1919.
To Balance
(Of which £750.000 is invested in British Government
Securities, and £500,000 in those of States where we
are represented—in all, £1,250.000. The balance is
employed in the business of the Bank.)
£3,200,000 0 0
£3,200,000 0 0
By Balance £3,100,000 0 0
Amount, from Profit and Loss .. 100,000 0 0
By Balance
£.3,200,000 0 0
£3.200,000 0 0
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
W. E. SOUTHERDEN, Chief Accountant.
Audited , 1977<, November, 1919.
S. E. LAIDLBT \
A. G. MILSON J-
•saoxiany


•! > A.i » flEK i ! S@ wiiAVnihii
is
.
A. Saunders’ Seven-piece Solid Silver Manicure Set, highly
burnished, finest-quality Instruments, 70/»
A. Saunders’ Stud Box, pure Silver-plated,
pierced design, A 1 quality, Satin finish,
10/-
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Brush, Mirror and Comb, in Silk-
lined Case, engraved Empire design, finest-quality Bristles,
bevelled-edge Mirror, £7/10/-
NEW YEAR GIFTS
mm
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Purse, pure Silver-plated, hand burnished
and engraved, 32/6.
Others, 15/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
Solid Silver, £7/10/-. Others, £4, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Jewel Casket, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality. Silk lined, hand engraved, Ribbon
design, 52/6.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ Silver-mounted Shoe Hook, Glove Hook
and Lift, in Silk-lined Case, 35/- \
Without Glove Hook, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Hair Tidy, pure Silver-
plated, daintily engraved, Ribbon de-
sign, Crystal Glass Jar, 13/6.
Puff Jar to match, 13/6.
A. Saunders* Attache Writing Case, fitted with every
convenience, 60/-
*
3v.
VA
ItM*
•Sfe*
ms
1 *
1 HI
|| I. X§|l
|V~ "f
v. -vVV
rr*
3:^
'
*»*
condensed
MILK_
r£mr'
f)fsTjT* = ® a^I ' ,A DE IN AUSTRAL!*
m* G
<*MO SWISS CONDENSE^
tLQOU
El a
HOB
■r: ;
gf®?' '-?yjjr,-
A*
skSSJak
us i
xw.'r- .. a.-
Pi
*"1
©
f .)
Of
bmo:
mn
mwmmmmm
Condensed
ilk


“Gouger” : A word with Randolph Bedford
over his “Journey by Angles” (B. 27/11/’l9 i.
He says he came up during the strike to
find the “starving North” and couldn't find
it. I found it. So did the people on the
Bloomfield River. They lived for months >n
sweet spuds and maniocs. My mates and I,
a little further out, had to knock off work
and go into the scrub, chasing wild pigs and
digging for native edible roots, just to keep
ourselves alive. There was no tobacco pro-
curable, and as for beer—well, shortly after
the strike started Cooktown ran dry, and it
didn’t get wet again until long after the
strike ended.
Missing Friends.
IF ROBERT NEILSON, who was born
in Eglinton Street, Glasgow, in 1858
land whose father was then manager of
Port Eglinton Mills and later of the Busby
Spinning Mills), and left Glasgow in 1877
for Australia, and who visited his mother
and sisters in Glasgow in the Spring of
1889 and again returned to Australia, and
who was last heard from by his Glasgow
relatives in 190(5. will communicate with
the subscribers, he may hear of something
to his advantage.
Information invited from anyone who
can throw light on Robert Neilson’s last or
present address.
BROWN, MAIR, GEM MILL & lIISLOP,
Solicitors,
162 St. Vincent Street, Glasgow.
sth November, 1919.
Amusement*.
Harry Kickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
1" IVOII THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES THURSDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.30.
THE TIVOLI FAMOUS PLAYERS
in
AS YQU- VERE.
A Novel ann fantastic Revue.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
1"IVOEI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
' HUGH- I). McINTOSII presents
LONDON’S SPARKLING MUSICAL COMEDY,
PETTICOAT FAIR.
Prices as usual.
ilt I T E It I O N TII EA T It IS. SY l»N ISY.
' Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
■ - EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES THURSDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.'
LIGHTNIN’.
A Comedy Drama by Winchell Smith and Flank
Bacon, , introducing the famous American- Character-
actor JOHN D. O’HARA and a specially-selected
cast of players.
• ■ Plan at Paling’s.
|_| IS It Al A .1 E S T Y ’ S, S Y 1) N K Y.
1 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES THURSDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
THE REVUSICAL COMEDY DE LUXE.
THE BING BOYS ON BROADWAY.
For the First Time in Australia.
Plans at Paling's. Prices as usual.
H E A T It E
ROYAL, SYDNEY.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
MATINEES THURSDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
CHARLES STANFORD presents the Famous and
Fascinating Drama in 4 Acts, by A. Stanley-Ford,
THE PRIEST AND THE GIRL,
A Drama that will hold you enthralled.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-, plus tax.
, Plan at Paling’s. <
PA LA C E TIIEAT It E. SYI)X E Y.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES THURSDAY AND SATURDAY AT
SARA ALLGOOD in
PEG O’ MY HEART.
The Play that will live for ever.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
u
N lON 1* 1 C T U It IS T II IS A T It E S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS.
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
HE It MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present their Gorgeous
Pantomime Extravaganza,
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY.
Plan at Allan’s.
Popular Prices.
' II E A T It E It O Y A L. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Attraeti \ e
Musical Play,
THEODORE AND CO.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
K
ING’S THEATRE. MEI,ItOO It N E.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. and N. TAIT and BAILEY and GRANT
present their Grand Spectacular Pantomime,
MOTHER HUBBARD.
Mices as usual.
Plan at Allan’s.
j OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
I Also SYDNEY.
LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
PAULINE FREDERICK in
PAID IN FULL.
VIVIAN MARTIN in
THE LITTLE COMRADE.
Prices as usual.
Amusements.
jyjAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
THE GREAT SIIACKLETON STORY,
IN THE GRIP OF THE POLAR
PACK ICE.
MatinSes daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
1* HE ALLAN WILKIE COMPANY,
Including Miss FREDISWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
Touring New Zealand in
lIINDI.E WAKES, CANDIDA, THE SCHOOL TOR
SCANDAL, SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER. TRILBY,
CAMILLE, THE SILVER KING, THE MIDNIGHT
WEDDING.
SECOND WEEK IN DUNEDIN.
PItITANNIA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Amusements.
LACIA R I U M, MELBOURNE.
JAZZ PALAIS
DANCING.
E V E R Y EVE N I N G,
8.15 to 10.15.
BUILDING ARTIFICIALLY COOLED.
MISS HUTCHISON'S JAZZ BAND.
Admission 1/-
Single Dances -/6
Book of 14 Dance Tickets 3/6
gy| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WOULD and SELZNICIv.
THE STATE SAVINGS BANK of VICTORIA
GUARANTEED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTORIA.
ESTABLISHED 1841.
COMMISSIONERS :
W. G. McBEATH, Esq., 0.8. E., J.P. (Chairman).
\V. BELL JACKSON, Esq. (Deputy Chairman). G. ANGUS YOUNG, Esq.
Major-General Sir J. W. McCAY, K.C.M.G., K.8.E., C.B. CHARLES FORRESTER, Esq.
W. WARREN KERR, Esq., C.B.E. (Deputy Commissioner).
Inspector-General: GEORGE E. EMERY, J.P.
SUMMARY OF ANNUAL REPORT
FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1919.
SAYINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
Total amount at credit of Depositors (Increase for year, £3,403,131)
Reserve Fund, Savings Bank Department
Tramway Fund —Deposits by Tramway Board ..
Other Funds and Accounts
Balance of unallotted profit carried forward ..
Total
ASSETS are invested as follows:
Cash in hand and deposits with other banks
Commonwealth War Loans
Victorian Government Loans ..
Credit Foncier Debentures ....
Board of Works and other municipal loans
.Mortgage Securities
Mortgage property foreclosed..
Bank premises ..
Sundry items
Total
Interest credited depositors for the year, at £3/15/- per cent.
Net Profit for the year in Savings Bank Department
PROGRESSIVE STATEMENT FOR TEN YEARS
£34,511,567
500,000
326,150
52,217
146,810
£35,536,744
£7,961,272
1,355,140
18,279,932
3,093,416
2,829,103
1,588,559
6,099
390,000
33,223
£35,536,744
£1,091,787
£42,479
CREDIT FONCIER DEPARTMENT.
This department issues debentures and stock, and with the proceeds makes advances on farm and
house properties.
The amount of debentures and stock current at 30th June, 1919, was as follows (Face Value) :
Held by Savings Bank Department.. .. .. £3,142,600
Held by General Public . . . . .. . . 1,649,550
Total
The number and amount of loans current at 30th June,
Loans on 3,872 Farm Securities ..
Loans on 10,293 House Securities ..
.. £4,792,150
1919, were as follows:
. . £1,949.023
2,781,148
Total 14,165 loans, for total of..
The advances made during the year were as follows: —
On 200 Farm Securities
On 1557 House Securities ~
Total 1757 new advances for total of..
The net profit for the year in the Credit Foncier Department was
Reserve Fund of Credit Foncier Department ..
£4,730,171
£133,000
546,165
£679,165
.. £16,615
.. £172,963
SAFE DEPOSIT DEPARTMENT.
This department makes no charge for any service in connection with War Loan Investments,
which interest is collected and placed to credit of depositors; the Bank now holds: —
£2,323,120 of War Bonds for 47,526 depositors.
£330,089 of War Savings Certificates for 15,028 depositors.
A small charge is made for other parcels and boxes held for safe custody for 2904 depositors.
GEO. E. EMERY, Inspector-General.
Head Office, Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
is
calling
1
To the Tourist, Scientist, Investor
and, with a hundred voices from her millions
of acres, to the Man in search of Land.
Free Information on all subjects
available at once on receipt of this coupon.
Name
Arlrlrpss _ . .
Queensland Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Brisbane.
S.B.
THE GOOD OLD “PLUM”
The good old “Plum” Razor has been before the
Australian Public for years, and its keenly-tempered
edge has preserved the friendship of every Shaver
who has made its acquaintance.
the: “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes n handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
til the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
Meeting.
The Tongkah Harbour Tin Dredging Co. N.L.
NOTICE OF DIVIDEND.
Notice is hereby given that a
Dividend (the Both) of 10 per cent.,
or 2/- per share, together with a bonus of 5
per cent., or 1/- per share, amounting; in all
to £22,500, has been declared payable on
the 22nd January, 1920, and for this pur-
| pose the Share Register will be closed from
the loth to the 22nd January inclusive.
By order of the Board.
H. .T. WISE, Manager, *
Dated at Hobart this 18th day of Deccm-
i her. 1919.
Degal Notices.
ABSTRACT OF CITATION.
TO RUTH OLIVE BURLEY, formerly
of Boulder.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been
issued in the Supreme Court 'of Western
Australia citing you to appear; and answer
the Petition of JOSEPH EDWIN BURLEY
of Boulder, praying for a Dissolution of
Marriage on the ground of Desertion for five
years and upwards. In default of your no-
appearing, you will not be allowed to address
the Court, and the Court will proceed to
hear the said Petition proved, and pronounce
sentence in respect thereto. And take
further notice, that for the purpose afore-
said you are within thirty ; days after the
date of this publication to attend in person,’
or by your solicitor, at the Central Office
of the Supreme Court, Perth, and there to
enter an appearance in a book provided for
that purpose.
Dated the eighth day of December, 1919.
(L.s.) (Signed) C. A. SHERARD,
Actjing Registrar.
BALFOUR SCOTT & MUIR, Proctors for
Petitioner, Boulder, by their. Agent,
GEORGE lIORT JOSEPH, 20 Weld
Chambers, St. George's Terrace; Perth.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF WESTERN'
AUSTRALIA;
C. No. 34 of 1919.
IN THE MATTER of the Estate of JAMES CROZIER
late of Kalgoorlie in the State of Western Aus-
tralia Pettier deceased intestate.
And . .
IN THE MATTER of “The Administration Act 1893.”
Pursuant to an Order of the Supreme Court of
Western Australia made on Originating Summons, in
tlfe matter of the Estate of James Crozier deceased
intestate. And in the matter of the Administration
Act 1893 C. No. 34 of 1919 Samuel Thomas Crozier
John Crozier and Joseph Crozier if living (or their
next of kin if dead) the natural and lawful brothers
of James Crozier late of Kalgoorlie in the State of
Western Australia Pettier deceased intestate who died
on the 13th day of January 1915 at the Government
Hospital Kalgoorlie aforesaid and Letters of Adminis-
tration of whose estate were on the 28th day of
September 1910 granted by the Supreme Court of
Western Australia to The West Australian Trustee
Executor and Agency Company Limited whose regis-
tered office is at Trustee Chambers Barrack Street
Perth are required on or before the 25th day of
February 1920 to give notice of their claims to
the said Company at its office Trustee Chambers
Barrack Street Perth in the State of Western Aus-
tralia after which date the said Company will apply
to the said Court for an order for leave to presume
the deaths without issue of the said Samuel Thomas
Crozier John Crozier and Joseph Crozier.
Dated this 9th day of December 1919.
C. A. SHERARD;
Acting-Master.
SMITH & LAVAN, Samson’s Buildings, Barrack
Street, Perth, Solicitors for the said The West;
Australian Trustee Executor and Agency Company
Limited.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
. should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 115 High Holborn, London. W.C..
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain'
information without charge.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees.
W. H. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
fdh
In these days we all have
to keep our end up:
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to soil.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
fd
10/6
Genuine BENGALI. Razors.
Unsurpassed for Cutting Edge.
Made by T. R. Cadmgn & Sons, Sheffield, Eng.
These razors have a reputation of 170 years’
standing for excellent quality. They are rinsur-
passed for durability and keen-cutting edge. Very
best steel, hand-forged, hardened and tempered by
special process. Hollow-ground to highest degree
of perfection. Specially Selected.
Full concave, file tang, gin. blade. . For light
beard.
Full concave, file tang, Jin. blade.
Price, Post Free 10/0 each.
Or Two Razors, Post Free, for 207-
MANUFACTURERS’ SELLING AGENCY,
8 Spring: Street, Sydney.


THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
(STATE GUARANTEE) ACTS AS
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and AGENT.
Expert, Efficient and Economical Management.
Write or call for full particulars, CULWULLA CHAMBERS, 67 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
T W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
6*
OOORD n £ Ai SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
Swift & Company Ltil.. Australasian Asrent*, 26 «o Ci«r#»m**»
Sf.. > vrlnpv „
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
fm
CARRIAGE
PAID.
The GUINEA HAT
of taste and quality.
Easily the Smartest Guinea Hat in
the Country, and the Best in Quality.
Fur Felt Hat, in Drab, Slate, Fawn,
flat-set leaf, neat turned edge, l|-inch
Black Band, loose Bow, 2|-inch Leaf,
and fashionable medium Crown.
21/-
FAST ELBOWING ITS WAY INTO FAVOR.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s .... “The Bing Bovs on Broadwav”
Criterion “Lightnin’”
■Royal “The Priest and the Girl''
Palace “Peg o’ My Heart”
TivoU' “As You Were”
HOTT 8 . Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Sleeping Beauty”
ROYAL “Theodore and Co.”
King’s “Mother Hubbard”
Tivoli . “Petticoat Fair”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lycedm Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciauium Dancing
«.
"Stalled Ass” brays over the year:—
A retrospective glance at the fare offered at the
leading Sydney and Melbourne theatres during 1919
is calculated to make the judicious grieve. As
regards both plays and players the quality fell far
below that of 1918, when Armageddon was in full
blast. Last year one notable artist (Miss Marie
Tempest) and two others of more than average
merit (Cyril Maude and Guy Bates Post) were in-
troduced, and theatregoers had the opportunity of
witnessing a Henry Arthur Jones comedy (“Mary
Goes First”), two by Somerset Maugham (“Mrs.
Dot” and “Penelope”), a very passable example of
the work of one of the young bloods (Cyril Harcourt’s
“A Pair of Silk Stockings”), in Melbourne a fine
performance of “Julius Csesar” by a Bailey-Grant co.
headed by lan Maclaren, and several less impress-
ive though remarkably interesting Shakspearean re-
vivals by the same organisation. Putting aside some
tolerable grand-opera revivals and dealing with
ordinary theatrical fare, what has been offered in
this piping year of peace to compare with the
goods provided during the preceding 12 months?
The list of new productions in Melbourne, other
than musical shows, comprised “Nothing But the
Truth,” “A Tailor-made Man,” “The Great Divide,”
“Eyes of Youth,” “Three Faces East,” “Common
Clay,” “The Silent Witness,” “Lightnin’,” “Old
Lady 31” and “ ’Possum Paddock.” If there is one
play in this batch which rises above a level of
barely tolerable mediocrity I missed it. I would
also be charmed to hear the name of any mummer
brought to Australia in the past 12 months whose
talents revealed anything other than the dead-level
qualities of an ideal billiard-table. One performer
(Miss Emelie Polini) whose work is above the
f.a.q. standard was already in the Commonwealth,
and apparently the Taits could provide her with no
more appropriate vehicle for a display of her talent
than the utterly banal “Eyes of Youth.” Yankee
farce (as Australia knows it) has never been more
tiresome than “Nothing But the Truth,” Yankee
"The Priest and the
Girl,” at Sydney
Royal.
C. C. Francis as
Dr. Carlton-Yorke,
villain.
bellodrama never move
crude than “Common
Clay,” and Yankee sen-
timentality achieved
the dead limit in
stickiness in “Dad-
dies.”
The musical shows
of the year were
scarcely more inspir-
ing. Mclntosh, who
has been paying more
attention than his
brother managers to
the English market,
presented a decent
enough thing of its
kind in “My Lady
Frayle,” but how does
such an offering com-
pare with “The Choco-
late Soldier” or “The
Arcadians,” not to
mention more recent
shows like “The Pink
Lady” and “The Girl
in the Taxi”? Managers
may declare with lofty
condescension that
they give the public
what it wants, but the
enthusiasm with which
the public stayed away
from some of the
shows mentioned, and
the number of occa-
sions on which revivals
had to be employed to fill unexpectedly long in-
tervals between new drinks, do not go far toward
justifying the legend of managerial infallibility.
** * *
"The Bing Boys on Broadway” will keep
Sydney Majesty’s going for many weeks.
The managerial advt. has a whole bench of
press critics barking the praises of the
show, and most of the hallelujahs are
deserved.
age He
The "Peg o’ My Heart” season has a
little more than a week to run at Sydney
Palace. Emelie Polini opens in “A Little
Damozel” on Saturday, January 10.
** * *
"Lightnin’ ” Bill Jones continues his ineb-
riated career at Sydney Criterion, and the
members of the Theatre Ticket-sellers’
Union are talking of giving the manage-
ment 14 days’ notice of their intention to
demand a 100 per cent, rise in wages if the
rush doesn't stop within the next month
or so.
At Sydney Tivoli “As You Were” speeds
backward through the ages with its Six
Beauties and the Extra Beauty who was
put in for good measure. One of the best
jests in the show explodes when Bert Clarke
is courting a girl of the Louis XIV. period
and sees a simpering rival, all curls and
ruffles. “Who is this Mary Pickford fellow?”
he demands.
“The Priest and the Girl” ask for Syd-
ney’s attention at the Royal. The label now
states plainly, “Not a sectarian play, but
a clean, moral, Irish drama.” So the nastiest
sort of occasional playgoer, his curiosity
satisfied, puts his money back in his pocket
and stays at home.
At Sydney Opera House Cinderella makes
her nightly appearance at the Ball at five
minutes to 12 by the stage clock, which
shows that the fairy godmother is slow with
her job even though she has cut out the
actual turning of the pumpkin into a coach
and the instantaneous change of Cinder-
“CINDERELLA” PANTO., AT SYDNEY
GRAND OPERA HOUSE.
Stiffy (Nat Phillips)annoys Mo (Roy Rene)
with an ancient pork-chop joke.
ella’s undies and overs. Pearl Ladd and
Yilliers Arnold sing tenderly of Shadowland :
the Prince works hard for his applause; the
dancing is good in quality though intro-
ducing little that is original. But Stiffy
and Mo are surely forgetting how funny
they can be when they star “I’ll hit you
over the damn mouth” and the pointless
forefather joke as chief witticisms.
Ilaymarket and Hoyt’s in Sydnev show
handsome Pauline Frederick as the wife of
a poor but dishonest shipping clerk, from
whose hard-hearted employer she gets a re-
ceipt in full for her husband’s defalcations;
whereupon the husband neatly punctures
himself with a bullet and makes way for
the better man. “Paid in Full” is the title
of the old story dressed up as new. Fatty
Arbuckle shares the star honors on the same
bills as “A Desert Hero.” Earle Williams
is the head-liner of the Lyceum in “Tne
Wolf,” a tale of brotherly revenge laid
amidst beautiful scenery in the Canadian
backwoods. The revengee is an American
engineer who comes a cropper through
neglecting to apply the brakes in his senti-
mental journeys. On the same flicker Olive
Thomas is her own mother and daughter.
As mother she is treated shabbily by her
relations-in-laws, and hands over her
new-born babe to an apachg pickpocket;
as Toton the daughter she does very well,
and when the apache adopted-father dies she
packs her valise and takes up residence with
real dad in his marble halls, where the
scarcity of domestic help has not yet been
felt. Constance Talmadge keeps Crystal
Palace and Strand busy with her agony-
column adventures in “A Lady’s Name,”
and pretty Madge Kennedv shows herself
Perfect Lady” at the Piccadilly. Then there
are the film pantos: “Beauty and the Beast.”
"Little Boy Blue,” “Humpty, Dumpty” and
“Fairyland.”
5? * * *
“The Sleeping Beauty,” at Melbourne
Majesty’s, had been so well rehearsed before
the season started that a week’s performance
made very little difference in the effect. Per-
haps a few of the stodgiest lines had been cut
out, and certainly the forest glades and
groves of the transformation scene moved
more easily on Boxing Night than the first
time they travelled in public. The shifting
forest, by the way,
is the place where
Maggie Dickinson,
sporting a costume
of white and swan-
like feathers, with
a perky tail, dances
a gambol duet with
Sydney Yates dis-
guised as a bear
with a long ditto.
For some reason or
other they are billed
as the Fox and the
Pheasant, and their
unreasonable pro-
ceedings are termi-
nated by the sound
of a shot from a
rifle or a pop-gun,
whereat Maggie
falls mortally
wounded, whilst the
supposititious fox
gets a w a y. The
gentle Dame r e-
peats without
variation her pre-
vious soliloquy on
washing-day, and
the King’s com-
plaints about the
maltreatment o f
his underwear have
lost none of their
“Mother Hubbard,” at
Melbourne King’s.
Barry Lupino as
Mother Hubbard
looking sweet.
early solemnity.
Also the whitewashers (Brothers Egbert)
invade the laundry as before, and soon
convert the floor into a raging sea
of slosh, which is one of the most
popular bits of the pantomime. Ordi-
nary humor can make no headway
against the spectacle of a man’s head emerg-
ing from a bucket of whitewash. For that
matter, no ordinary ballad-singing compares
in popular esteem with the tattered squeak
of an attenuated-legged infant who comes
along to repeat the refrain in Winifred
Roma’s ditty, “Give Me the Moonlight.”
Miss Roma has gained a little confidence
since her first Australian appearance, but
she continues to be the absolutely girliest
principal boy, especially in the feminine
bending of her knees, ever identified with a
J.C.W. panto. Her gait and bearing are as
unmanly as the voice of the Dame is un-
womanly, so they ought to form themselves
into a class for teaching one another a few
characteristics of the opposite sex.
v v
“Mother Hubbard” at Melbourne King’s
has been scissored since the opening night,
and now allows the distant suburbanite to
reach home before the milk. The dancing
and ballets remain the features of the show,
and the individual work of Elsie Parkes and
the whirlwind efforts of Daisy Yates in the
clutch of the useful Kelso Henderson are
charming. Cannot’s comedy continues to
cheer but not inebriate, whilst Lupino’s
Dame wears the red nose of a ginful life
and glowers in the misery of owning many
children. The youngsters have a bright
scene where a couple of prospective Bol-
sheviks try to subvert mother’s authority
with treasonable speeches; but when the old
lady walks into the conspiracy the revolution
collapses and the ringleader is punished with
a bath and bed. There ousht to be more
room for the kiddies in “Mother Hubbard,”
but so many legs and intellects press for ex-
posure that the family is rarely seen or
bear’d. This matter is hereby brought under
the notice of the Neglected Children’s
Department.
# * *
“Theodore and Co.” at Melbourne Royal
is still introducing Theodore Leonard to
favorable notice, and making this critic won-
der why so many complications of plot
should be crowded together at intervals, leav-
ing blank spaces to be filled in with irrele-
vant songs. One or two of these, it is true,
are winners, notably Leonard’s “My Friend
John” with variations; but the solo Maud
Fane contributes (in a hybrid costume
which displays her legs to disadvantage) is
poor. Nothing. that happens during the
whole evening is better than the musical
moments of Gladys Monerieff incidental to
the play, or the charming duet she sings with
Leslie Holland in Act 2. An unsentimental
duet by Leonard and Sidney Stirling is also
a capital item, but the fact that the warble
of one of the duettists is mostly inarticulate
robs it of more than half its force. The first
duty of a songster is to be audible; the
second (or thereabouts) is to enunciate
clearly. Florence Young gets one fair oppor-
tunity to teach the other members of the
co. their duty in this matter. Unhappily
the opportunity is not brilliant.
At Melbourne Tivoli a recently-augmented
chorus and a little extra force in the
orchestra will help “Petticoat Fair” over
the holidays, and the comedy would be more
helped if the three naval characters were a
breezier trio. Kennedy Allen, as the alleged
funny man of the mild disturbance, is no
lighter or brighter than he was a month ago
He can be funny enough in another sort'of
character, but as a sailor who is expected
to hoist the slacks of the show Allen is a
sad failure. He doesn’t uplift things worth
a cent. At the most he only assists to keen
them from falling down.
At Melbourne Princess’s John Cosgrove's
naval drama of "Jutland” is still showing
a passion for violence and high explosives.
One of the most terrible moments occurs
when some bursting ammunition hurls Lieut
Roy Redgrave into the raging deep, from
which he is salved by the Germans and
stowed in a prison camp. However, Red-
grave’s British pluck is proof against the
wildest tortures the Huns can devise, and
he ends his miserable existence by walking
out of his captivity disguised as the Kaiser.
"Jutland” is full of similar excitements, but
it is not without pathos, as when the stout
author has apparently to remain in the
centre of his biggest Dreadnought for fear
that his stummick, listing to port or star-
board. might wreck the equilibrium and lose
the ship.
:*< sjs sij:
Theda Bara is in a new shocker, "The
Light,” at Hoyt’s, Melbourne, this week. As
a female of the Paris underworld she sys-
tematically samples the baser passions until
the true love of a noble sculptor leads her
to a life of everlasting hugger-mugger. “The
Rebellious Bride,” scampering on the same
screen, shows some phases of the lighter art
of Peggy Hyland, whilst connoisseurs of
suffering can watch tragedy triumphant in
the surging bust of Pauline Frederick in
"Paid in Full.” The Britannia, which
opened the week with the adaptation of
‘‘Jane Eyre” called “Woman and Wife,” is
starting the New Year with the story of
"Toton,” in which Olive Thomas is the most
absorbing apachS in Paris. The Melba is
tempting the young into its inviting gloom
with a capital film of "Robinson Crusoe.”
For more advanced students there is a senti-
mental education in watching “From Head-
quarters,” with Anita Stewart in charge.
* *
Adelaide shows woke up for Christmas.
The Royal got back to the spoken drama
with a season of Adrienne Ray and Francis
Hugo, opening with “Whom God Hath
Joined.” The Tivoli had Denis Kehoe
(working eastward again) with his Irish
specialties; Roland Stavely is associated
with him now. An Andersonian “Sleeping
Beauty pantomime started at the Tivoli,
with Victor Prince pushing it along. Pluckv
Kate Howarde brought “ ’Possum Paddock”
to the Exhibition Gardens, and is giving
J red Macdonald and the other Backblock
blokes a run in the open air. On the other
2t, N . orth Terrace, also in the open, are
the Fads and Fashions” entertainers, a
bnsk show which is highly popular. At the
Majestic Frank Sidney has come in to jump
and George Halls to “entertain” ; also Poin-
> (States things—birds mostly—and
Abdy s cockatoos are their own quaint selves,
in pictures Snowy Baker has moved over
to the Pav. with his “Lure of the Bush”;
but the most unseasonable, and, therefore
popular, picture in sight is “Polar Ice” at
West’s. Frank Hurley decribes the Shackle-
ton expedition as the incidents appear on
the screen, and the moral effect of the ice-
scenes is immense. On Christmas night this
show had to be duplicated at the Royal.
“Ato”: In a St. Kilda (Vic.) yard I saw
a house sign—“ The Old Bark Hut,” It
was painted on the dog kennel.
“047”: Realising that the audience is half
the fun in a theatre, a London manager has
an idea of installing a mirror drop-curtain
so that Mrs. Phat in the stalls mav quiz
Mrs. Adipose-Tissue in the d.c. without
turning her head.
The Italian has ways of his own. He has
just announced that he will stop the pay and
rations of the troops who mutinied and fol-
lowed the poet D’Annunzio on his filibustering
mission to seize Fiume. The Government at
Rome warmly repudiated the insurgent bard,
but apparently it paid and fed his army so
long as there was a good prospect of his steal
coming off.
“W.F.”: One of the big firms recently im-
ported two ‘‘leading actors” and entrusted
them with the production of a simple show.
Their joint salaries climbed to over three
figures, and they took eight weeks to pro-
duce the play. And then the result was so
appalling that it had to be rehearsed again
by the management while the play was run-
ning. Add flie cost of importation and re-
turn and you get a pretty expensive pro-
duction. Yet good Australians, and others
who have become Australian by virtue of
long residence, may whistle in vain for
work.


Start the New Year on a Good Foundation.
Wear
MURDOCH’S Boots
witli
Armourite Soles
Men who want maximum satisfaction in
Footwear should buy these smart serviceable
Boots. They comfort the feet and save
money for the wearer.
“Armourite” Soles are tanned by a special
process which toughens the leather and
makes it wear-resisting without impairing
its flexibility.
Hundreds of men have proved that
Murdoch’s Armourite”
Soles will Outwear
Two Ordinary Soles.
Make your footwear money do double duty
during 1920—wear Murdoch’s Boots with
“Armourite” Soles. Made in a variety of
shapes to please all tastes. Uppers are
made from specially-selected leathers —Black
Box Calf and Tan Calf. Derby shape as
illustrated —also medium round toe. Shod
with “Armourite” Soles.
Every pair guaranteed—Obtainable only at
Murdoch’s. Prove their merit.
ORDER A PAIR TO-DAY.
BlacK
or
Taxi
286
POST
FREE.
If you 'can’t call send particulars
of size, shape, etc., to Desk R.
■ilk
Murdoch’s
in Park
St. Ltd.,
Sydney
Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys.*
PERSONAL PRIDE should dictate
{he exercise of extreme care in {he
selection of Gem Rings. To facilitate {his
Drummond’s haVe issued a verp exclusive
Catalogue, representative of {heir choice
selections, and illustrating man}) neW and
exquisite examples of {he highest grade
Workmanship. This Booklet Will be
for Warded post free to country) residents.
Wm. Drummond & Co.
344-346 Collins Street, Melbourne
I(MNCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
FROM
41-
EACH
BRITISH-MADE
Columbia
- J Records 4
10-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
FROM
41-
EACH.
TOM BURKE
The British Tenor who astonished Covent
Garden with the richness of his voice.
12-INCH, SINGLE-SIDED, 8/6 EACH.
7201 Rigoletto: “La Donna e mobile” (Verdi)
7202 Rigoletto: “Questa o Quella .. . (Verdi)
7203 Martha: “M’Appari” (Ah, so Pure)
(Flotow)
7204 —Manon: “Chiudo gli occhi” . . (Massenet)
7199 La Tosca: “Recondita armonia”
(Puccini)
7200 La Tosca: “E lucevan le stelle’L (Puccini)
ALL SUNG IN ITALIAN, WITH ORCHESTRA.
Never such acclamation in Grand Opera circles as was
accorded BURKE-: —on all sides pronounced the English tenor
with a voice equal to those of the greatest Italians. For the
benefit of those who may not yet have heard them we give above
his first six records—each a distinct revelation of his vocal
qualities. Burke records ONLY for COLUMBIA.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VIC., and TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Pty.,
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd.. Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 123 Pirie Street.
PERTH, AV.A.—H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Wefoley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 343 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
m
i
&
;>
C/\G^o/Jmy\ct
JJE&
2 S
Ife
ABOUT YOUR
SHEEP DIP-
With the result of your WOOL CLIP so much
dependent upon the DIP, your choice is extremely
important. Choose wisely ! Choose a Dip that
has proved its Efficiency absolutely and conclusively—
not only in the Chemist’s Laboratory, but under
Australian Service Conditions
POWDER SHEEP DIP
is being endorsed on every hand, without
reservation. Its long-lasting protection is
fast becoming a by-word. Its popularity
amongst Woolgrowers and its Sales are
increasing by leaps and bounds. What
other reason for that than demonstrated
Efficiency and Service? That’s why we say,
Buy by the "VALLO” Sign of Service.
It’s your Protection. See that you get it!
Jill Stores Can Supply
Manufacturers: A. VICTOR LEGGO 8i CO.
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY * BRISBANE


USE COCOANUT OIL
FOR WASHING HAIR.
Girls and women who wish to keep their
hair in nice condition should l>e most cautious
in the soap they wash it with. Most soaps
and ready-mixed shampoos contain excessive
quantities of alkali. This dries the scalp,
makes the hair brittle and is very injurious,
.lust ordinary colinated cocoanut oil (a pure,
saponified, but quite greaseless liquid), is
far better than the most costly soap you could
possibly use for a shampoo, for this cannot
possibly hurt your hair.
Merely wet vour hair with water and rub
it on. A couple of teaspoonsful makes a-
perfect flood of rich, thick creamy lather, and !
cleanses both hair and scalp thoroughly. The
lather rinses out easily, and takes with it
every trace of dust. dirt, dandruff or excessive
oihness The hair dries quickly .and evenly
“j jj£S? appearing & t(f be^beavler^timii’itMs.
And best of P all, this ordnmted cocoanut oil
leaves the hair as easy to dress agam
though you badn t washed it at all. *ou
tret colinated cocoanut oil at aimosc any
.»m If. ■•<ol , =atea.” c Wmch I.
not evpensive- - a few ounces lasting a long,
loDg arne.
PAIN VANISHES! CORNS LIFT OUT
AFTER FEW DROPS.
Let To-day’s Corn Pain be Your Last Corn Pain.
Lift Any Corn or Callous Out with Finger-tips.
Wonderful! Girls! Save it a Corner on Dressing-stand.
hfd
No bunkum! No bother! Corns,
callouses —hard or soft—soro or
sensitive —all yield and loosen
and lift off—absolutely pain-
lessly. ,
This newly-found com-
pound is named Frozol-
Ice, and is still another
use of that great medi-
cal discovery “ether.”
Stop at any chemist's for
a little bottle of Frozol-lee,
costing but a trifle, but which is ample
to free the feet, from each and every
corn and callous.
Apply some drops on to a delicate
corn or callous. Like a flash the soreness
vanishes, and soon the corn or callous peels
right off with the finger-tips.
Frozol-Ice is absolutely non-irritant, doesn’t
even inflame the- surrounding healthy flesh.
Just fancy! No agony at all. no sting or sore-
ness while using, or afterwards, simply a
shrivelling, drying up of corns and callouses.
Girls! Save a corner on your dressing-
table for Frozol-Ice, and never be the “wall-
flower” of the ballroom again. Just some
drops of Frozol-Ice when corns, begin aching.
Pain disappears—corn dies!
True Frozol-Ice is flattered by worthless
imitations. Avoid them by insisting on the
green label.
This Simple Rule
Soon Strengthens
a Delicate Stomach
It really is unnecessary to dose yourself
with pepsin pills or artificial digestives, or to
live on a miserable nursery diet. If you will
observe one easy rule you can eat the hearty,
nourishing foods that your appetite craves
and your body needs. That rule is to take
a teaspoonful of Salix Magnesia in a half-
glass -of hot water with each meal. Salix
Magnesia is non-laxative and harmless, and
possesses medicinal qualties that promptly
overcome impaired digestion, fermentation,
acidity, catarrhal conditions of the stomach!
gas, distress after eating, and other stomach
disorders. As magnesia is prepared in vari-
ous ways, be certain to insist on obtaining it
from your chemist in the Salix. form, especi-
ally recommended for stomach purposes.
From Poverty Point to Luxury—a meal at the “PAVILION” —Sydney’s Dining Rooms de luxe, Circular Quay
POVERTY
POINTS
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Mark Time” : It is all very Avell for the
producer of “The True Story of the Kelly
Gang” film to rob the Kelly family of every
redeeming feature in order to try to get the
picture past the censor and the police; but
has the family no claim—-I won’t say to con-
sideration, but to.a fair deal? I could add
a feAv feet to the picture. T could, fo>- in-
stance, show Private Fred , of the
A.1.F., Kate’s son, lying fatally wounded
in France, and two other young Australians,
husbands of Kate’s tAvo daughters, h'dding
farewell to their young children before
going off to fight. And the last scene of all
AA’ould be a poor, broken Avoman much over 80
Boy Pianist MAX PIRANI, of Melbourne,
about to smite J Flat.
years of age, who still lives in the Glenrowan
district, Avhere for over 40 years she has
borne sorrow such as comes to feAv women,
and is still mentally alert enough to feel to
the full this last stirring-up of the old
tragedy. The last film of the “Kelly
Gang” Avas prohibited in the north-east of
Victoria, and I hope the proper authority
Avill come doAvn heavily on this one.
“Fax”: When the Firm engaged Vera
Pearce for principal boy in a panto it really
looked as though the special importation of
such things Avould soon cease, Australia be-
ing so rich in the class of material required
for sprightly spectacular parts. But the
old custom continues. This year both the
J.C.W. and Tait managements have im-
ported a Boy and a Girl apiece, whereas they
should have opened a school for the tuition
of local applicants in the easy duties at-
tached to the billets. No originality, no
art born of long experience, is required.
Panto “boys” and “girls” are merely ex-
pected to follow in the footsteps of a long
line of predecessors. Any smart-figured, tall
girl, Avith a good Australian voice and a
head not exactly made of wood, is a potential
Jack the Giant-killer; and the supply of
potential “girls” is even greater because
they can be small to middling. Why send
12,000 miles for Christmas annuals Avhen a
bunch of fine specimens could be produced,
with a little cultivation, in our own back
yard? Apparently, for one reason, because
unpatriotic Australian newspapers are pre-
pared to give more free puffing to the im-
ported person, he or she being, so to speak,
a virgin mine of paragraph matter.
“C. Ockney”: “As You Were,” the
recently-staged Mclntosh revue, lias for its
leading lady in English provincial towns a
Avell-known performer on Australian stages—
Sybil Arundale. When here Sybil was prin-
cipal boy in pantomime, and principal girl
in musical comedy, and a slick little artist
all the time. Only a feAv months back she
was playing Madge Titheradge’s rble in a
Wild West melodrama, “The Tiger’s Cub.”
THE WAY THE WORLD GOES ROUND.
HER: “ I’m glad Molly lost her jewellery.
She deserves it for not being a better
girl.”
HIM: “Yes, but if she’d been a better girl
she wouldn’t have had any jewellery.”
I shouldn’t be surprised to hear of her star-
ring in Shakspeare or as a prima ballerina.
She is capable of both flights.
“Late Doors”: Apropos Diggers making
good supers. In pre-Avar days producers
had a horror of army and navy men for
army and navy jobs on the stage. There
Avas a yarn told of a group of bluejackets
engaged for a trial scene. When the time
came for the hero to be seized, not a man
moved. Violent Avhispers prompted them
from the wings, but without avail. When
at length it dawned on one of the sailors
that action was expected of his party, he
saluted and explained, “We can’t arrest him,
sir. We’re not warrant-officers.”
“H.C.V.”: Because I don’t read the papers
carefully, I got a mild surprise at beholding
dear “Iliggy” doing second lead in the Stoll-
Asehe “Eastward Ho” at the Alhambra,
Leicester Square. Andrew commences to
look a portly, middle-aged gentleman in com-
parison with the slender youth whose Prince
Danilo in “The Merry Widow” set the
hearts of Melbourne and Sydney flappers
going in the dear old dead days. He still
has the Higginspnian lisp, and the pro-
gramme announces that "Mr. Higginson’s
suits are made by Tootle, of Bond-street.”
“T. D. Emdee”: Violet Cameron, one of
the beauties of the London stage, is dead.
I remember her at the Royal Comedy Theatre
in London in 1883. The opera Avas “Rip
Van Winkle,” and in the cast were Fred
Leslie, Lionel Brough and Camille D’Arville.
There were attractions in London at that
time. Sara Bernhardt Avas doing “Fedora”
at the Gaiety, and Mrs. Bernard Beere was
playing the same tragedy in English at the
Haymarket. Wilson Barrett, Miss Eastlake
and E. S. Willard were at the Adelphi in
"The Silver King,” and a burlesque of it
Avas at the Strand. Violet Cameron made
her first appearance at nine, and she died
in Worthing at 57. Most of us fancied she
was older. Her mother was one of the sisters
Brougham, favorites at the Canterbury and
Oxford music-halls, and the first of a long
line of "sisters” in the vaudeAllle business.
She Avas also related to Lydia Thompson.
Violet Avas in her teens when she played
Germaine in “Les Cloches de Cornevilie,”
the Australian Shiel Barry being Gaspard.
Barry hated the part, and on the first night
was so hoarse as to be almost voiceless.
Other opera-bouffe successes folloAved —"La
Mascotte,” “Madame Favart,” “Olivette” and
the like.
“0.K.”: Cabled news of David Griffith
and three dozen movie actors being caught
in a storm aboard a yacht off the coast of
Florida suggests that they were out on busi-
ness when the vessel got into trouble. Mum-
ming for picscreen plays distinctly has its
perils. Even the hero of melodrama Avho
dives from a stage-carpentered ship into a
painted ocean has a safe job compared with
Charlie Chaplin climbing ov r er a garden wall.
A pantomimist of the Barry Lupino order
takes chances; yet a Lupino, Avatching some
of the al fresco adventures of a movie actor,
might repeat the Avords of the late J. F.
Sheridan as he watched Adelina Antc-nio do
her back-fall into a net from a trapeze fixed
near the roof of Fitzgeralds’ circus tent.
“I’d rather risk my life as a low comedian,”
said the droll little Irish Jew.
“Old Pot”: Even in the days when George
Anson Avas the king of comedians in Aus-
tralia, fairy tales Avere in circulation about
the fabulous salaries paid to actors and
actresses. The favorite sum used to be £4O
a Aveek. The fact Avas that when Brough
and Boueicault AA'ere playing at the Cri-
terion, G. S. Titheradge was paid £22 10s.
a week, and Robert Brough and Dion Bouci-
cault also drew
that amount from
the treasury every
Monday. As the
co. became more
prosperous salaries
w ere increased
among the top-
sawyers. But an
extremely sound
and well-known
utility man of the
day received the
magnificent sum of
£2 a week! Cecil
Warde came to
Australia for £l2
a week, and that
was nearly 100 per
cent, more than he
was receiving in
the English prov-
inces before he
fluked the appear-
ance at the Surrey
Theatre on which B. and B.’s agent
engaged him.
Died lately at Orange (N.S.W.), Mrs
Ashton, mother of the circus proprietors, aged
86. She was a nath'e of Maitland, daughter
of an old soldier who came to Australia in
the days of the birthstain. Ashton came
from Tasmania.
“Peter”: “The Little Damozel,” threatened
by the Taits at Sydney Palace shortly, had
a command performance before the late King
Ted. There is a dim echo of Oscar Wilde in
the playful dialogue and an atmosphere of
poker, horse and irresponsibility in the open-
ing act, but there Avas nothing else to seize
Ted’s experienced fancy unless it Avas the
acting of the original London co. headed by
one of the Hawtreys. The cast includes a
couple of German-sounding menials who in
one instance talk their own language, but
presumably the Taits will Anglicise the
characters and turn their German into par-
lor English. Australian Cyril Keightley, by
the Avay, played in the American version,
and I fancy Ada Reeve acquired the Aus-
tralian rights.
An Australian musician in America: —
Though the Americans hire foreign singers and
players and boast about the fees they are paid,
music as we know it does not exist. Bands and
orchestras they have by the thousand performing
jazz music imitated from the negroes. American
humor and comic illustration is also mainly taken
from negro sources. Their vaudeville houses swarm
with coons and persons who mimic coons and sing
negro Songs in high-pitched nasa] tones. To vary
the noise they dance negro shuffles. There is just
the beginning of Art. Their big galleries are deco-
rated with copies of old masters and fakes of Euro-
pean masterpieces. Meissonier once complained that
there were thousands more Meissoniers west of the
Mississippi than he ever painted. The drama is dead.
In such an olla podrida the purist cannot expect a
high standard of morals. I think the national fond-
ness for dancing has something to do with the laxity
of morals, but hating killjoys and killjoyism I don’t
like to say it. Manners are usually allied with
morals, and Americans lack graciousness. Due to
the heavy German leaven in the population, the
majority of the populace are rude. Rudeness has
always been Germanic. The cities are abominably
noisy. Their people love loud sounds, and make
• them continuously. They roar and shout and screech
in public and in private. The fine art of polite
conversation does not exist because it cannot make
itself heard above the din. Here again is a negro-
istic quality. New York and Chicago are nearly
“impossible” for a sensitive individual. They are a
perpetual uproar. All the guns of all the armies
fired together Avould sound like a Avhisper in New
York, flaunting its poverty and vaunting its wealth.
“Ox”: W. G. Wills (B. 6/11/T9). who
put Cromwell into Irving’s “Charles 1.,” Avas
a strange soul who provoked sensitive actors
by attending rehearsals of his plays in the
company of a raw onion, which he ate within
smelling distance of the stage. John Drink-
water, who followed his “Abraham Lincoln”
success with “Cromwell,” Avorked 12 years
in an insurance office and labored over a
book of verse be-
fore he founded
the Birmingham
Repertoire Theatre.
“Lincoln” went
from Birmingham
to the London
Lyric, and has got
well past its 300th
performance. Drink-
water, who is only
37, recently ar-
rived in NeAV York
to superintend its
production there,
and already the
Yanks are sooling
him on to George
Washington. By
the way, Australia
saw a dramatised
Cromwell when
Allan Wilkie staged
“For the King” at
Melbourne Prin-
cess’s during the
conscription cam-
paign. The play,
which failed chiefly
because the Prin-
cess patrons
thought it was a
“Mother Hubbard ,” at
Melbourne King's.
Jack Cannot as
Mother Hubbard's
Husband.
recruiting stunt, showed Oliver as a decent
old cock.
“J.F.11.” (London) : Genevieve Ward,
who played “Forget Me Not” in Australia
40 years ago and added a wing to the Mel-
bourne Women’s Hospital before she left,
is still hale and hearty. She regularly does
first nights at London theatres, and, being
quickly recognised by old playgoers, is ac-
corded a complimentary round of cheers.
On the first night of the Tolstoy drama
“Reparation,” at St. James’s, she was given
an ovation, and acknowledged it in charming
fashion. Then, standing and surveying the
crowded house in search of old friends, she
spotted another grand old stage-woman.
Madge Robertson. Madge spotted her simul-
taneously, and they kissed hands. Gene-
vieve carries her 82 years for a three-mile
walk regularly every day.
“Private Boxer”: The names of Julius
Knight and Susie Vaughan are once more
to be found together on the bills —in a Lon-
don production at the Scala. The piece is
“The Net,” written by Mark Ambient, who
Avas part-author of “The Arcadians.” Though
it isn’t iikely to add much to either the
playwright’s reputation or his bank account,
both Susan and Julius have made hits m
the new piece.
“Biobox”: It’s a busy world. The show-
man had them first as “the animated pic-
tures” or “the animatograph.” Then came
“the cinematograph,” “the cinema,” “the
pictures,” “the movies,” and “the films.”
Now it’s down to “the flicks.”
“Pott Shott” : Little Willie still has a good
sized kick in him. After 18 weeks of stock
melodrama Fullers put up “East Lynne” in
Sydney and the business necessitated a queue
at 6.30 every evening, while capital was con-
sistently turned away from the paybox. To
me it is a source of wonder that Julius
Knight never mistook himself for Archibald
Carlyle. Had he done so, he might have
been mistaken for Croesus by this time.
“Melb” : Years ago I intervievyed five big
theatricals of the time for a Melbourne-paper
article. They were Day, G. Rignold, Thorn-
ton, G. Gordon and Habbe. I watched Day’s
whole process of transformation into Bosco
Blithers. One hour’s work. He said his
model was Old Williams, prompter at
Sadler’s Wells. Lohr introduced me to Rig-
nold in his dressing-room with the first Mrs.
Rignold. They joined in maintaining against
me the superiority of “Lights o’ Loudon” to
“The Silver King (“The Lights” Avas then
enjoying one of its runs, the cast including
Kate Bishop. Flora Anstead, Darley, Cath-
cart, W. G. Carey and Appleby). I chatted
with Thornton during his long wait in “The
Private Secretary,” Harwood; as Cattermole,
looking in occasionally. Scenic-artist Gor-
don I found painting panto cloths. Below
us the carpenters Avorked on a set for “The
Shadows of a Great City,” in which William-
son and Maggie Moore Avould appear. Gor-
don showed m# the rolls of scenery for “The
Tempest,” afterwards given with Rignold
as Caliban. I found Habbe painting for a
revival of “Henry the Fifth.” His old drop-
curtain, from Melbourne Opera House, is
now at the Guildhall.
WESTERN DANCERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The sympathy dance to Mrs. last Friday
was a splendidly supported affair, and showed the
genuine constancy of the community, a memoriam
to the dead, and a solace to the bereaved.”
—■ tt. S. Wales country paper.
They are most expressive dancers, are the people in
the West.
They can pqlka loads of sorrow from the mourner’s
heaving chest;
Their gyrations are consoling in a strange and
subtle Avay,
And they jazz dumb Grief to glory ero the dawn
breaks chili and grey.
(Set to partners, there,' Matilda, for her man forks
no more hay !)
Now the widow sits and watches, and her tears are
turned to smiles.
Mick the Breaker has been waltzing on his toes for
many miles ;
Ho has got few words, has Michael, but his sympathy
is sweet —
That the widow knows by staring at his swift, ex-
pressive feet,
Twinkling lightly through the mazes to the music’s
maddening beat.
Are you sick or are you sorry? Hire a band and a k
the mob;
They will charm away your sadness till you cannot
raise a sob:
But their friendly ministrations will not stop there.
AVhat is more,
They will dance on till .you giggle, choke and roll
upon the floor,
Out of breath with helpless laughter, holding ribs
made tired and sore.
X.S.W.
K.


*. ' ’
K •:% * ■* .ijff
:: ■ ■■ ■ % • «•. ~ 4 y>-
%\s a * ysu-.. j
HH
-t ' ■■.
&
® igjm
t:
bp Tsjwr i
S# \ iS *'*
-,-3c .«■'*; ’»!
JP*-'-- ’i •••*; - r :." •■ ;•.,
1 *%y . *.
wm
■ ■
..y
HP
I
P^-y.
■.’ 'vt-SS
is
'-' %
' : *r's \
w
. ;-.-v
y• ; V;-; ~ :Jf* : ■:;;
i.'- *
■
m
m
Ml
■ f! '-
■■ .
mmimmm
usif
. ■ h
’:’ j
wfgm
, n
. '^ v ''S
:• .'/>••
j llt *f & 1
■ l;vi
S&y
■ .
y>- ; '
smmm c»
fpipipji
pi^
.
./
/
k%
:
. ™..
■
A.Z
tSS
.lv«
. :
Hpr: WMiPMRpp
«
:'
■
aiaigiBit«
Igis I
Stf
Ilf
'
IPj
:
11
m
Mr
.
■■Ml
m
sp
iH
■ WH
' *\'.lt% ■
. *' H
j
..r.5
■ ;-; : v:ImPP
■ * ■“
&M
m
: 'V->.
: 1
. it
I
-? - mm
, W i ll iiiiMnit l i>piiift'^ a ‘ ■ ■ |
hi
■taito
S*-S». V»«MW!K
. - ■*' ■
- J
BWfeak-,
.
-■•vv
tv.v*v>
"■ , ■ . . ■■-■■V” ' •: '.' ' '
+.***,'^' sr %''« f f / .
t.A*
' • " * tjl : ’ J ' <ii*
-‘v"- =,v 1 .. J ll •*• «i«*!s’“' r ' IT ' .
1 ■ ;■-
*
I
SI
.:■• ■•■■ . ■•:•.- . . ■
'
Night Driving in
Perfect Security
Driving along dark country roads,
the motorist appreciates his sturdy
Perdriau Tyres. Their genuine
dependability gives added comfort
born of the real tyre security they
render.
A reinforced wall, consisting of
extra plys of closely woven and
specially treated stout British
Fabric adds enormous strength
to the tyre.
Severe and exacting tests have proved the
efficiency of the new wall, and thousands
of satisfied users realize that the purely
Australian Perdriau is superior to all
other tyres for Australian roads.
OBTAIN A SET from your GARAGE or the MANUFACTURERS
PERDRIAU RUBBER Co. Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne. Brisbane. Adelaide. Perth
.
m
RAUAt'I


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & 60., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special
sole Agents : RESCHS, LiniTED, Redfern. Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROUNfi ?
i PWIS&wnITTy MAKERS
f
1
Salt licks
At all Storekeepers, Produce Merchants, Saddlers 8 Blacksmiths.
For All
Animals.
HANG THEM
BY THE
LOOP.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
Of the dozen starters for the A..J.C. Sum-
mer Cup on Boxing Day the one unanimously conceded
to have “Buckley’s” was Pah King. ike freely
offered 100’s to three about him, but was spurned.
And then the despised animal, instead of collapsing
at the customary place, went right on and won like
a champion, fairly burying Eastcourt and Kenilford.
He accomplished the mile and five furlongs in “44”
—an Australian record. Pah King inhabits the
same stable as Bimeter and has done more racing
lately than any other horse in Sydney. But, though
a first-class track Worker, he had regularly blown
out when tried past a mile, even among suburban
battlers.
All the well-backed lot in the Cup ran like hairy
dogs, barring Kenilford. The rough ’uns were conspic-
uously rapid all through, especially Posiastre, who
having given a couple of calamitous exhibitions
just before, felt so much better that lie travelled on
liis own well out in front right up to tlie last fur-
long. It was a solid betting race. There must have
been nearly a ton on Kenilford, and there were heavy
wads on Wedding Day and Bright Night. The mare
did no good. The colt was run off his legs in
racing for the rails at the start, and though well up
at the turn hadn’t a kick left when coming up the
straight. A barrow-load was wheeled into Israel
at the last minute on behalf of Shaded Light, but
it had no effect on the brute’s pace. As a guide to
what may happen next a race like this is probably
worth less than nothing. Still it is safe to remark
that if Posiastre happens to be in the same frame of
mind on New- Year’s Day he may be mighty hard to
catch in Tatt.’s Cup.
A very reliable nag over short courses is the
Malster gelding Jack Findlay, who comes dow-n to
Sydney occasionally from Newcastle. He won at
Randwick in the Spring, at the A.J.C. meeting last
week captured the Flying in “13,” and on Saturday
at Tatt.’s convocation put up 71b. penalty and
annexed the Welter. The money went on with
great confidence each time.
The only thing to say about the Carrington Stakes
this time is that the Wallace gelding Ready-aye-
Rcady, who had won four races since the weights
appeared, hopped out early and never looked like
being beaten. He carried 7st. 121 b.—about a stone
and a half less than would have been handed him
on a re-handicap. The nearest at the finish was the
Cooltrim mare Coolstone, a 33 to one chance.
Ready-aye-Ready is trained at Moorefield, a
suburb which has been the pfeparing-ground
of some notable animals. It was there that
Pendant, who twice won the Carrington and, after
running second in the Newmarket of 1904, came out
and went one better two years later, was trained.
And Scotland, who took the big Flemington sprint
of 1908, was another Moorefieldite. Both belonged
to James Brennan, erstwhile Sydney bookmaker,
light promoter and threatrical entrepreneur, and now
doing well with the bag in England. Pendant and
Scotland were under Dick O’Connor, who is in
charge of that gay deceiver Publican.
Panacre missed Davies, his usual pilot, in the
Carrington Stakes and did not run at all kindly for
MeLachlan. The big hoi-se needs a bit of pushing-
nowadays, and, finished horseman though MeLachlan
is, he fails where a more rough-and-ready rider would
succeed.
» # * *
Lingle’s young brother Erasmus (cost
price, 1000 guineas) brought himself into notice at
Randwick the other day by arriving second in a
two-year-old event. He is not being hurried and
may be heard of again. But of all the rising gener-
ation the best seems to be the Murillo colt Victrola,
winner of the well-gilt December Stakes and a handi-
cap. In the first of these he beat Barney Allen’s
Gossine Hattan and Kelso’s Capella in good style. In
the second several recent winners were left far
astern. He also won earlier in the month at Rosehill.
* a * *
Jockey Rosen had a profitable day in the
saddle at the Albion Park (Q.) races on Saturday; he
got the verdict on the four horses he mounted.
Among the nags he brought first under the judge’s
notice were Sir Cyrus, winner of the Plate, and
Darginnie, of the Purse, both qt^ fairly long prices.
All six events at Caulfield on Boxing Day
were interesting. Firstly there was a close finish for
the Hurdle Race, in which Suma was backed down
to 2 to 1, but was beaten half a length by Majestic
Foot, an 8 to 1 chance. On the previous Saturday
the same Majestic Foot had been reckoned lucky to
catch another gee napping, and beat him on the
post, but the gelding’s form in this case indicated
that luck had little to do with his previous victory.
Handicapped with such a ridiculous name he must
be a pretty good hurdler ever to win at all; Two-
year-old Whi-le scored his third win in three tries
when he captured the Juvenile Stakes by half a head
from Crimson, and Frais beat the Victorian record
for seven furlongs by winning the Malvern Handicap
from Wedge and imported Lannion iri lmin. 264 see.
Wedge, not long up from a holiday, was trying to
give the mare 241 b.; nevertheless the winner did
well in beating tlie dandy sprinter by half a head.
Only a good one can outpace Wedge in a six or seven
furlongs go at any reasonable difference in weight.
Imported Farivale ' lost the mile Welter by half a
neck because be had been all behind most of the
distance. Meantime the Hopetoun Cup, the prin-
cipal event of the. day, had added £7OO to the
stake earnings of that improving- young mare Queen
Comedy, who lately annexed the Ballarat Cup. Until
they were close home it looked as though old Colbert
would make his backers a handsome apology for a
long- series of defeats. Differently ridden Colbert
might have won; yet, considering that the old chap
was half suspected of having returned to his long-
lost self,- the performance was disappointing. The
extra furlong in the Bagot Handicap at Flemington
may suit him, even as the furlong less in tlie
Stanuish may suit the burly Wedge, but neither
animal looks a good thing for the coming engage-
ment.
* * * *
Vincent Zed, the Adelaide owner, who
took over all contractor Timms’s string of race-
horses for the pleasure of a new sensation, without
having had any exjferience of the racecourse, has
had his first win after waiting many months. At
the Port Adelaide Christmas meeting, now a thriving
two-davs affair, the Christmas Handicap was' won
by Zed’s Kingbier—a former City Handicap winner
--in a desperate finish with Lady Anton, reliable
Shacko (favorite) being third. All three were
earning practically the same weight.
•K* * * *
Premier Lawson, Mackinnon. Groves,
Allan, Rogers, Hannah, Greenwood, Gibson, Slater,
Cain, Lemmon, Cotter, Farthing, Wallace and Beard-
more, M’s.L.A., and Crooke and Chandler, M’s.L.C.,
are listed for the contingent of Vic. Parliamentary
sportsmen who will cross to Sydney in February.
They will play cricket, bowls and tennis and pos-
sibly have a rifle match, their opponents of course
being N. S. Wales Parliamentarians.
* » # *
Victoria bad, piled up 376 for six
against N. S. Wales in Melbourne on Saturday when
rain stopped the’play. Dwyer, fielding as substitute
for Norman (a casualty), got Mayne off Kelleway
wben the Victorian’s score stood at 131. Ex-
Digger Park, who. went in first wicket down, played
a fine innings for 92 ; and the new-comer Hartkopf
(24 n. 0.) shaped well.
* # « *
The S.A. cricket team for Melbourne and
Sydney is the same as the one that was so badly
beaten by N. S. Wales in Adelaide, except for a
new wicket-keeper, Schulz coming in to replace Seith.
Probably no mistake ever made in a cricket field
was so heavily punished as that made by Selth in
missing Bardsley at the start. Bardsley went on to
make a century, and kill the bowling for those who
followed. Selth, naturally rattled by the mistake,
presently failed to gather a ball, and took it be-
tween the eyes, having to
be carried off. Gelirs
took the gloves, but, not
having worn them for 10
or 12 years, had to just
do his best, and more
than one chance of stump-
ing went untaken. Selth
lost his place in the State
team for the rest of the
season. It was an event-
ful miss.
The best that Adelaide
can say for the awful
showing made by South
Aus. XI against N. S.
Wales is that It is too
bad to be true. It is
practically the same team
—plus two new bowlers,
who took nearly all the
wickets that were taken—
which made a very close
fight with Vic. last year.
Adelaide cricketers are
notorious for doing their
best away from home; for
years, at one time, their
own people never saw
them win, while they were
causing occasional bril-
liant surprises in Sydney
and Melbourne. The thing
that adds to Adelaide’s
confusion is that Mailey
was the only bowler who
looked really difficult. He
had the batsmen guessing
all the time. Carter’s
work at the wicket was
brilliant.
F. BARING, of East
Melbourne, who has
played in inter-State
cricket.
The Wellington (M.L.) junior team which
amassed 700 for six wickets had another innings a
week later, and rattled up 741. Tlie innings again
included three centuries. Looks as if the combina-
tion is in the wrong grade.
The Springfield family is monopolising
this season’s Queensland swimming championships.
A few- weeks ago Frank, beat brother Sid for tlie
threequafter-mile title in 18min. 52 4-ssec. ;
last week, in the 220yds., Sid won from Frank in
2min. 42 2-ssec. At the same meeting Mabel won
the 50yds. Queensland title in 33 l-ssec.
Norman Ross —6ft. ’2m.,* and built pro-
portionately —-strips like a swimming champ. Aus-
tralia has owned but one really small top-notcher,
namely Freddy* Lane, of N. S. Wales. For many
years he hadn't a peer as a sprinter, especially at
220 yards, and his name'stood - opposite the furlong-
record for many seasons after he had given the
game best. Barney Keiran was a very sturdy lad,
and Dick Cavill, Cecil Healy, Harold Hardwick,
Albert Barry and Billy Longworth were all big men.
This year’s President Cup (three-quarter
mile swimming handicap) at Domain Baths (Syd-
ney) was a gift for the lorig<markers. ,In the final
P. Johnson (B-ondi); with 7min. 25sec., won in
23min. 23 3-ssec. H. Hay (Manly), from scratch,
put up the fastest time (20min. ssec.). Tom Morris
(East Sydney), swimming back-stroke, did the
stretch in 24min. 21sec. —12sec. better than his
own N. S. Wales record, put up in 1917.
South Aus. is doing away with its
“exempt nights.” In 1872, when vehicles were first
required to cany lights at night, the rule was
declared not to apply at full moon and the four
evenings before it. Motors have never had this
exemption, and with their swift progress they are
liable to be on to unlighted carts and bicycles
with disastrous effects. So, from January 1, every
vehicle in S.A. has to carry a white light in front
and a red one at the back on all nights without
exception.
* * * *
Ex-N. S. "Wales Leaguers Denny Camp-
bell and Albert liosenfeld, both of Eastern Suburbs,
are still among the high lights of the Northern
Union game in England. Koseufeld has been star
performer with the famous Huddersfield club since
1908, while Campbell has been the big man of the
Leeds team since 1912. Word came the other day
of Steve (“Tracker”) Dgrmody from Hull, where
he went after the successful Australasian invasion
of 1911-12. Steve, one of South Sydney’s smartest
wingers, has ended his football days. He lost a
foot in a motor accident while on active service in
France, Other famous players from these parts
who are still chasing the ball in the Cold Country
are Gleeson (Glebe), Billy Farnsworth (Newtown)
arid “Boiler” Francis' (Auckland, M.L.).
The Darwin football season opened last
month with the mercury at 95.3. Vesteys provide
a team of butchers (the Wara tails), while the
Wharfies battle under the name of the Wanderers.
Since the inception of the Northern Territory Foot-
ball League the Wharfies ( alias Wanderers) have
landed the pennant each year. The game is clean
and fast; the ground is gravelly; quarters are 20
minutes each—lG men are played. Any sport who
wants a hundred on the game can be accommodated.
The Collins-street theorists who talk about the
Territory not being a white man’s country ought
to go along add see the condition of the teams; if
that doesn’t close their mouths nothing will.
* » * *
The death of E. T. Smith is a blow to
Adelaide sport of all kinds —bar racing, in which lie
took no interest. It would have been a bigger blow-
-20 years ago, as his great age has lately made him
leave the work of administration —which ho loved—
to others. He was president or chairman of cricket,
football, tennis, rowing, cycling, rifle and many
other associations or leagues, right down to chess;
was always liberal with trophies, and always on
hand to present them to the winner. For many years
every English XI was banqueted at his home the
evening before leaving Australia. But what sports-
men of all kinds valued most was his personal
interest. He could always find a billet for an
athlete who was in need of one. Also he was at
all times the kind of practical man who could buy
a piece of land, sell half of it for the cost of the
whole, and enjoy the use of the other half; and
he seemed to get more pleasure out of doing- this
for some public body than for his own profit.
Curiously, he never played any game himself. When
young he worked too hard to have time for anything
but the rifle; but he was a champion shot about 60
years ago.
* * * *
Art Australian Governor patronised a
prize-fight for probably the first time on record
last Saturday in Perth, when Sir Ellison Macartney
and an A.D.C. turned up to see Harry Stone and
Monty Merton mingle over 20 rounds. The referee
gave it a draw, though many good judges considered
that the ec-centrio Yankee Yid had won.
* * * *
Llew Edwards did everything to Eddie
Wallace at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night but
knock him out. Wallace came here with a big
reputation based on his efforts against worla-
beaters like Benny Leonard and Wilde. But against
the Welsh wizardry of Llewellyn he could do little
or nothing. One thing only stood to him—his
dauntless pluck. He is a granite-faced Hebrew,
with one of those broad, flat faces which look as
if they had been put through a wringer and then
cursorily knocked into some sort of shape with a
mallet. Edwards pasted the countenance of the
American till he was tired. He hit it everywhere
from all angles. But invariably Wallace pushed
forward in quest of more, grinning defiance, when
things were most torrid, through a bloody mask of
swollen lips and half-closed eves. By the end of
the eighth round he was apparently the only man
in the vast assemblage who didn’t know that he
was well and truly licked. The massacre dragged on
till tlie 18th, when the referee stopped it. Harry
Stone appears to be the only match for Edwards
in Australia at the present time. The Sydney
Stadium would hardly hold the crowd that might
be relied on to roll up if the affair was arranged.
* * * *
Ted Lewis is back in England, and last
week he stopped Matt Wells in the 12th round of a
20-round engagement. Jack Britton, the 35-year-old
Irish-American welter, beat Lewis in 1910, but
otherwise his career abroad was uninterruptedly
successful.
* * * #
“O. Blin”: The recent Melbourne cham-
pionships and the approach of the Davis Cup have
given a tremendous stimulus to tennis and set it
strongly in the affections of many people who have
been suddenly disillusioned by Gerald Patterson
anent its allegedly ladylike character. Having
played most games bar golf, I give tennis the prize
for its constant demands on the player's activity,
initiative and resource, and its encouragement of a
' feeling of sportsmanship which at times develops
into unwarranted chivalry. The strain of the game
is only fully appreciated by those who play it with
all their heart aril head; there is no similar demand
on the faculties in cricket, laprosse, football or base-
ball, -where the sense of responsibility is distributed
and tlie mental effort is comparatively negligible.
Tennis, however, has the drawback of never touching
the crowd. The small space of the playing area and
the necessity of watching it very closely to enjoy
its points are two disadvantages that put it a long
way behind cricket and toeball in the average spec-
tator’s regard.
* * * *
’Billy T.”: You remember the clever light-
weight Copper? He was as quick as a steam piston
and as full of tricks as a barrel of apes, but one, of
the greatest curs that ever appeared in the ring in
Melbourne. In his meteoric career he probably did
not fight a single straight battle after the two or three
that gave him his look-in. Ilis last scrap was with
a big, lubberly, hard-hitting glutton for trouble, a
half-caste named Happy Hooley. When they got
going Copper danced round the coon, and smote him
from every angle, but
with so little driving
nower that Happy
Hooley seemed pleased
with his helping, and
in the lightness of his
heart bored in and
swiped Copper one that
lifted him off his feet
and landed him in a
pile. Fortunately the
gong went then, and
Copper was placed on
his perch and sprayed
and fanned into fair
shape again. When
he went back at
Happy Hooley he was
full of bitterness, and
using all his superior
arts he,proceedeil to cut
the nigger into shreds.
He sliced Happy' up
till the latter cried
out: “See here, I got
to let you lick me; but
s’ep me, yous is ober-
actin’ de part.” Bully-
ragged by his own
corner for provoking
this exposure, Copper
whined: “Well, look
where he hit me —the
careless swine!” That
was Copper’s last fight.
JACK MUNRO,
of Stadiums, Ltd.
Seeing that he whiskied and smoked with
the best of them till lie had turned GO the late John
Roberts, like his father before him, was a practical
demonstration of the value of billiards as a healthful
exercise. Pew champions in outdoor sport arrive at
the 70’s after “doing themselves well,” as the two
Roberts identities did. The late champion was
John Roberts, jun., when lie first won the title and
for some years afterwards. It is an old story that
the original John discovered the spot-stroke,
and remained an easy champion of the game until
his beard was very grizzled. Then a young man
named William Cook began to exhibit a mastery of
the spot-stroke, and it was dimly understood tliat.
old John Roberts’s son could beat his father at his
own game, but was not going to try to win the
championship from anyone but Cook when that rising
star should have beaten the old man. Cook chal-
lenged the founder of the spot-stroke in 18G9. The
story of their match for the championship is evi-
dence of the wonderful development of the art of
billiards' during the past half-century. The game
w T as 1200 up on a table which would be considered
much too easy for first-class amateurs these times.
Nevertheless they took hours to finish it, the ner-
vousness of young Cook preventing him from getting
fairly on to the mechanical “spot,” whilst the old
man was cramped in his endeavors to get there by
the fear that the youngster would take advantage of
his break-downs. A run of 50 spot strokes was a
great break 50 years ago. After they had both
turned the 1000 young Cook recovered his nerve and
soon finished the game. That, of course, was the
end of the old original John Roberts as champion of
the world. Presently John, jun., challenged Cook
and beat him, after which the two young rnen played
battledore and shuttlecock with the championship and
toured together, while it was becoming apparent
that the spot-stroke, on the then comparatively easy
table, would have to be abolished. The first idea
was a new table, with smaller pockets and the posi-
tion of the spot slightly altered. On this table .Toe
Bennett became a temporary champion, though he was
never credited with being as clever a billiardist as
Cook and Roberts. Drink eventually ended the day's of
Cook, but ere then John Roberts, jun.,'had become
a sort of law unto himself in opposition to the men
who were almost as good as, or even better than,
himself at the monotonous spot stroke, but couldn’t
approach him in all-round play. Roberts had become
the great master of the “push” stroke, and his nur-
sery' cannon play, with the “push” permitted, was
the main attraction in his exhibition matches. Thirtv
years ago he toured the world as an exponent' of
gentle billiards, taking his family and his servant
and his billiard-table with him. A great personage
was John Roberts (no longer junior) in those days.
Then the push stroke was barred, like the spot stroke
before it. But still Roberts remained champion, by
virtue of his top-of-the-table play. When his fighting
powers began to decline he was still for a while the
boss show artist, because of his way of rapid scoring,
rarely' appearing to have any' doubt about what he
would do next; and doing it so easily that his
eventual failure seemed due to the carelessness of
over-confidence. Undoubtedly he was the most inter-
esting of all billiardists to watch.
■*# ' * *
The Yankee cyclists scored some more at
the Sydney carnival last week. In a mile chal-
lenge race Alf Grenda and Willie Spencer (11.5. A.)
defeated Alex. Mcßeath and Ted Priestley (Aus.),
and on the same nisrht Grenda won the five-mile
scratch by a couple of lengths from his fellow Yank
11. Ohrt. On Saturday 11. Ohrt and F. Corry
(America) defeated W. Erskine and E. Tamme
(Aus.) in a match race; W. Spencer defeated Ale-x.
Mcßeath in two straight heats of an international
challenge; and Alf Grenda and F. Corry were first
over the line in the one-mile Australian Cycling
Derby. Amateur champion Gerald Halpin was also
busy, and won half-mile (from scratch) in 58 4-ssee..
and was second in the half-mile in 29 3-ssec. The
latter clipped the Australian figures and made a
fresh item on the record book.
NOT GOOD OLD JAN. THE 1ST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Each day of every year we live another day begins,
But all days are not good to start repenting of our
sins ;
The one that follows New Year’s Eve of all days is
the worst —
No day for swearing off the drink is good old Jan.
the Ist.
A day it is for meeting- friends, and getting some-
what wet—
For going to the races, where one’s bound to make
a bet.
If ever I resolve to be a sadder, wowser man
I’m hanged if I will make a start on jolly Ist of
Jan.
December 31.
O.K.


LEARN SCIENTIFIC BOXING!
There is no excuse for you remaining
crude and inexperienced in the Art of
Self-defence—a “punching-ball” for
the first bully who crosses your path.
Why don’t you commence Boxing
Lessons NOW—to-day? Or must you
first get a sound thrashing before
you realise that to learn Boxing is a
duty you owe yourself?
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST.
My methods are simple, practical and thorough.
You cannot fail to progress rapidly, and will quickly
acquire a sound knowledge of the best moves of
the most celebrated boxers.
The course is very complete. It deals with every
serviceable punch, and the most effective stop for
it. You’ll find my instruction a really splendid,
recreation that will while away many a pleasant
hour. And how can you put your leisure to better
advantage than by learning to defend yourself?
Write for my terms and for further information, as
given in my interesting booklet, “Scientific Boxing
in Your Home.” .lust write your name and address
on this advertisement and post to me. I’ll know
what you mean. Send three stamps for postage.
Those who prefer personal tuition at my Institute are invited to call
and have a chat with me.
REG. E. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
“ The Champion All-round Athlete of Australia,"
174 Municipal Buildings, Oxford St. (Cor. Crown St.), Sydney.
a
38
WHEN TOURING
You don't need a map to
find out where to get
“SHELL"
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
Makes Old Razors
Shave Like New.
II ©0
©o.
e©
A sharp Razor is its
own reward to the man
who shaves himself, yet
how to keep it sharp,
with tough beards, has
always been the great
obstacle, for the average
man does not know how to set or
sharpen a Razor. The simple yet
expedient PERFORATED HONE
solves the question permanently;
it provides a lifetime of easy
shaving for a small outlay—only
4/6, or post free 6/-. TRY THE
PERFORATED HONE; if it
doesn’t make your razor shave to
your satisfaction return it to us within
30 days and get your money back.
Sold by all leading Hardware Merchants
at 4/6, or post free 5/- from
The Perforated Hone Co.,
Dept. 11 123 Sussex Street, Sydney.
[6
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOB
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY
Box 220 0.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
'll
m
Jaw Breakers.
Gyratory
Breakers.
Crushing Rolls
Elevators.
Screens.
Conveyors.
Portable and
Stationary.
Crushing
Plants.
OVER 1000 SUPPLIED.
STONE BREAKERS
ALL SIZES. CAPACITIES, ICWT. TO 100 TONS PER HOUR.
Send for Illustrated Catalog No. 20. MACHINES IN STOCK.
MANUFACTURED BY—
JAQUES BROS. Pty. Ltd.,
Coppin Street, Richmond, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Fluid
Magnesia
for Indigestion.
/
‘Vs*
m,
Mi
l&Sll
m
t :
m
UNDERWEAR
THAT WILL
HELP YOU
TO KEEP COOL
Comfort in Hot Weather de-
pends largely on the use of the
“Right Kind” of Underwear —
Underwear such as we quote
below, which has been made
with the one end in view of
preventing overheating and its
consequent ills and discomforts.
“Artex” Underwear
“Lets the Body Breathe.* 1
Ensures Speedy Evaporation of Perspiration
—keeps Skin at even temperature-—Clean,
Cool, Hygienic.
Singlets 11/9
Trunk Drawers 127-
Fine White Cotton.
Light and Delightfully Soft Made specially
for Tropical use.
Singlets ' 7/6
Knee Pants 7/6
Brown Balbriggan.
Particularly Fine Quality and Soothing to
the Skin. Cool, Comfortable, Serviceable.
Singlets 6/9
Pants and Trunk Drawers, 7/6, 8/6
{According to Size.)
10 DISCOUNT to RETURNED m"In~
Post Your Order—We Pay Freight
Lincoln, Stuart# Co.
& Pty. Ltd.
“ Specialists in Outfitting by Mail, ”
244-254 Flinders Street. MELBOURNE.


FARMER'S
CASH BONUS SALE
Commences January sth.
FARMER’S Summer Cash Bonus Sale commences on Mon-
day next and continues until Saturday, January 17th. All
sale goods are Farmer’s regular stocks ; nothing inferior or shop-
worn finds a place among the bargains offered. Sale Prices in
almost every instance show important savings on the season’s
usual prices, and then the Cash Bonus —a second substantial
saving of 2/- in the £ —applies in every instance where cash is
paid, except in the case of a few proprietary lines.
XS FARMER'S : SYDNEY M
All Cash Buyers effect a second saving of 2/- in every £1 spent.
Shave Gowns
are evident
at any affair
of note.
The air of distinction so
essentially typical of all
Shave designing makes
evident the Shave Gowns
in any affair of note. The
wonder of it is that many
of such gowns are made
by the art of Shave with-
out any fittings.
SHAVE
Ladies' Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Centreway, Melbourne.
h
M
eltoman
K^ 7
HIGH-CLASS
SPECIALTIES
Creams
2Tt
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL RINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Aprents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD-
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. DROWN @ SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL • OVER • THE • WORLD
VISITORS. Don’t miss one of the city’s greatest attractions —the “PAVILION,” Sydney’s Restaurant de luxe, Circular Quay.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
Returned overseas trippers complain that
Melbourne society has lost its “tone,” and
talk of reorganisation. During the war
years mothers were too taken up with their
soldier sons to worry about social matters.
So the young people were left to set the pace
and they made it so hot that now life to them
means just one jazz after another. While
dad grows peevish over the high cost of
pleasure, mother weakly argues that the
girls simply must have a good time after the
’ strain of war. But dad knows to his cost
that the flappers really had the time of their
lives. One or two rudely awakened mothers
are trying to stamp out the cocktail and
cigarette habit in their daughters, and have
sternly forbidden unchaperoned motor rides
with dancing partners. But the sternest
critics of all are the returned-soldier
brothers. They have seen something of the
world, and don’t want their sisters to de-
velop into' cabaret girls. Some of them are
frankly indignant with their elders for shirk-
ing their duty. The season of jazz is not
likely to be long, all things considered.
H. J. M. Campbell, one of the three
wealthy Honorary ! Ministers in the State
Cabinet (the others are Donald Mackinnon
and John McWhae), has persuaded Pre-
mier Lawson to take a loan of his stately
home, Maretimo, overlooking the cliffs at
Portland, for a few weeks in January and
February. Mrs. Lawson and the fine family
of eight children (ranging from 16 to a
toddler) will leave with him for “the cradle
of Victorian settlement” on January 6. He
is entitled to a spell.
Attorney-General Arthur Robinson, M.L.C.,
and Norman ; Bayles, M.L.A., were farewelled
by their respective Houses the day before the
session closed. Both are to leave on January
21 on a trip to Furope. Premier Lawson
will do the Law Department work while his
colleague is away. So that directions and
signatures, presentments and “nolies’* may
be quite in order, Robinson will shed the
Solicitor-Generalship before he goes, and
Lawson will tack it on.
The Argus Mackinnons’ well-kept Toorak
paddocks now fly a sale-boLrd.
Hundreds of weary children must be thank-
ful that Christmas is over. The streets
were thronged for two weeks with little ones
-dragged along by ; one arm so that mother »r
auntie might get excited in front of toy
displays; and lots of small spines were im-
perilled through their owners being rushed
round an bumpy go-carts. The infants will
have to form a union to protect their rights.
‘ The Alec Landale widow is joyously
awaiting the return of her eldest son, Major
George. Early in the war he went to Eng-
land to rejoin the British Army, which he
had left as a captain to settle on his River-
ina acreage. Mrs. George (she was* the
eldest daughter of the late Baronet Clarke
and his Lady Janet) is much taken up with
her family of four. Two new babies were
added to the collection during the years in
England.
Early in February a contingent of Vic-
torian State members will visit Sydney to
play cricket, tennis and bowls against N. S.
Wales Parliamentary teams. There may
also be a rifle-shooting contingent. A. A.
Billson is chairman of the sports committee,
and has established a tiny newspaper dubbod
The Mace to maintain interest in the doings
of the sports. Members who can’t or won’t
play have been given a strong hint that they
can pay. /
A further result of the war is the move-
ment in England to restore knee breeches
and ruffles and gaudy dress-coats for men.
Military swank has corrupted the male
taste. Before the war the aim of the dres-
siest men was to be tailored to perfection
in the least conspicuous manner, but the
habit of wearing a uniform q,nd being hugged
in it has changed the old order and sent
ideas bounding back to. the ornate fancies
of great-grandfather’s time. Women, to a
point, mostly approve the aspirations of the
boys. As long as it doesn’t reduce their
own opportunities for splendor, they would
like to be hugged by a vision in a pale pink
coat, brown silk stockings and glittering
buckles that give a false arch of instep.
The Town Hall was a moving sea of
children bounded by a sombre beach of grown-
ups on Thursday night. The occasion was
Mrs. Green’s annual ball. The great charge
one noticed wrought by the war was the sub-
stitution of white muslin frillies for tulle and
gold tissue. But the show dancers simply
rustled in costliness. It must have taken a
few hundred yards of misty white tulle and
barrowloads of pink roses to transform 50
babies of from four to 10 into a group of
fairies. The elder stars (dozens of them)
had a dressing competition of their own.
The jazz and fox-trot wore a fifth-grade Bac-
chanalian air, served up between a beauti-
fully interpreted minuet and a waltz.
Daughter Florrie Green played the piano part
in the orchestra all the evening. Mrs. Green
was in charge of the stage.
Mrs. Alston and her daughters, back in
St. Kilda, and temporarily settled at the
George, after years in England, say they
would not advise their worst enemy to go to
England, much less France, at the present
time. The cost of living is ahnormal enough
to stagger an American millionaire. The
luxury tax in France is beyond a joke, for
everything the tripper uses is classed as a
luxury, down to the smallest trifle. London
prices are appalling, food is scarce, and hotel
or other accommodation even scarcer. lhe
place is crowded out with Americans and
foreigners, and the other people always seem
to have most money to waste.
Hearing that Billy Hughes was at Sassa-
fras, returned Billjims who were giving Mrs.
Gunn, the dear little lady who wrote ‘We
of the Never-Never,” a picnic at Begley s
Bridge, lassoed the great man, who joined
the happy throng. He showed no disposition
to run away once he was collared, stayed
for the social in the evening at Mombulk,
and handed a gift from the boys to Mrs.
Gunn.
Few visitors to Menzies’ would have
guessed that the hotel’s dapper manager, J.
K. Speedie, who went west the other day,
was 56. He arrived in Melbourne 32 years
ago, and was associated with Menzies’ almost
from the day of his arrival. It was only
a few months ago that he returned from
Great Britain, Europe and the U.S.A.,
where he had been with a view to the rebuild-
ing of Menzies’. A quiet, courteous, intensely
serious person was J. K. Speedie, and he
could tell at a glance if a visitor was one of
“our people” or a mere outsider.
Premier Lawson set a new example this
Ghristmastide by sending around to his
friends a card containing a delightful view
of “A Winter’s Day, Malmsbury, Vic,” and
a quotation from Milton: —
Yet much remains
To conquer still; peace hath her victories
No less renown’d than war.
It sounds a little like a warning to the Oppo-
sition that perhaps the country is just a
leetle bit tired of them.
News of the late Mr. “Dick” Casey’s
estate comes from London. He left nearly
£35,000 worth of property in Britain, and
the value of his Australian estate is said
to have been another £120,000. So there
is plenty to keep up the big white house on
the top of the Punt Hill. James Niall, his
partner in horseracing, is bequeathed poor
“Dick’s” share of whatever thoroughbred
stock and stable gear they owned jointly.
The Di Gilio family, whose string bands
have helped many an intolerable 'dinner to
a peaceful conclu-
sion, have produced
a striking young art-
ist, August Di Gilio,
who is already
deputy-leader of the
Uni. Conservatorium
orchestra and its
first violin. August,
who is only 24, leapt
to early success by
way of the usual
competitions, but
owes his later
flights to the sound
instruction of Felix
Gade, Carmen Del-
prat and other dis-
tinguished fiddlers.
He now owns a
couple of dozen gold
medals, but his greatest honor is his recent
appointment to the teaching staff of the Con-
servatorium. In that classic institution he
also reveals his powers on the flute, which
instrument he discovered under the guid-
ance of his uncle, the plump and popular
Rocco Di Gilio.
Heather Murray, second daughter of the
late John, Premier of Vic. and afterwards
Chief Sec. under Watt and Peacock, has
started a home-made cake-shop in Glenferrie.
Her friends passed the word round, and the
orders that came in carried the astonished
girl off her feet. Personality counts in little
businesses.
Nan Reay, whose notable work as a nurs-
ing sister in the war zone won her the Royal
Red Cross, is back again, and staying
at Armadale. For the present she
is absorbed in three nieces and two nephews,
all infantile, and has not yet had time to
see more than a few of the friends who are
making ready to give her a round of wel-
comes. While her dad. Colonel Reay, then
general manager of the Herald, was in
Vic., she was a favorite with a big circle,
bue she took nursing very seriously while a
trainee at Melbourne Hospital, and it was
in that probationary period that she really
earned most of the R.R.C. It seems, by the
way, that matchmakers were much too pre-
vious some weeks ago in allotting her a life-
partner.
This is novelist Jack McLaren (“Mc-
North,” of The Bulletin), who finds
yarns in bones, tales in Papuan spooks, and
books in everything. The son of a Presby-
terian parson, and related to some big events
in Scotch history, McLaren fled from a
college education in Melbourne to the hard,
wild life of an
ancient windjammer.
It was an amazing
voyage that took
him to Port Eliza-
beth and landed him
almost penniless in
Newcastle. Then,
armed with a pound
of tobacco and a
thirst for experience,
he found another ship
and struck north to
the Islands, where
he traded and tre-
panged, prospected
and played, and
stored up the rich
impressions of quaint
skins and coral
lagoons, with strange
winds obedient to a fixed routine and a hot,
searching sun ever throwing a high light on
adventure. Some of McLaren’s memories
have been poured into the stories that now
invite the traveller’s shilling on railway
bookstalls; but there is still an abundance of
material waiting to be turned into literature
by the combined power of his vision and
imagination. In the last year or so he has
completed four successes —“Red Mountain,
“The Skipper of the ‘Roaring Meg ’ and
“The Savagery of Margaret Nestor” for the
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., and “The White
Witch” for the Melbourne Bookstall Co.—
and his typewriter is still being hammered
to enliven the dull patches of tourists’ holi-
days. Presently he will return to the
Pacific and start on the story of his
first voyage—which, written as he lived it,
is a Conrad tale.
Here’s a line from David Low and Sister
Dorothy:—
Australia sent us off with the maritime strike,
San Francisco met us with a California railway
strike, and sped us on with the threat of a complete
inter-State tie-up. The day of our arrival in Chicago
was the signal for a street-car walk-out, and after
standing us for a week New York started one of the
biggest inter-State steel strikes on record. We
were just congratulating ourselves on getting out
alive when along came the wireless news of the
British railway strike. The most impressive features
of the U.S.A. are the everlasting coffee and the high
cost of living—it must be quite 150 per cent, loftier
than in Australia; and there is nothing more cal-
culated to increase one’s affection for Australia than
a fortnight in New York. Yet the Americans have
been most hospitable to us, entertaining us at
lunches, dinners and even breakfasts. The Chicago
Tribune, which believes it is “the greatest news-
paper in the world,” wanted us to lengthen our
stay and work in that office for a few weeks. But
there’s an easel waiting in London; so it’s off to
dirty Mersey in the morning! Incidentally we’ve
seen 5,000,000 dollars’ worth of oil go up in smoke,
inspected a Bolshevik meeting in Chicago, and callec
on the Governor of Honolulu. But the last episode
was quite an accident.
A popular feature of Salv’army Button
Day in .Melbourne was the wayside show
provided by small boys from the refoi or-
atory home at Box Hill. The youngsters
carried their address on their white guern-
seys, and had apparently been picked tor
their good looks as well as their agilitj
They formed human pyramids, like the
Arabs, and as silently stole through then'
little stunts. The effect was fine, not only
on account of the boyish beauty of some ot
the performers, but because they seemed
happy in a pastime well suited to the sort
of nipper the urchin from Box Hill is pre-
sumed to be.
Scotch College hits out in the matter of
preparing the Hawthorn Glen chateau and
estate. A trifle of £50,000 is to be spent m
18 months to complete this academy—prac-
tically a bid for the position of premier
Australian school. There is to be a
Memorial Hall to seat 1000, with 32 class-
rooms, gymnasium, library, museum, scien-
tific laboratories, quadrangle, cricket
ground, another big playground and boat-
sheds and baths on the Yarra, which flows
past. It was Dr. Marshall who first pro-
posed the purchase of the property.
From an Adelaide window :
George Brookman is being given a series of fare-
wells, being about to visit Europe. He got in, early
on Kalgoorlie, and ever since lias grudged neither
time nor money to help public movements. In war-
work, and latterly in repatriation, he has been par-
ticularly busy.
Some silver-plate is going begging in Adelaide.
It was given to the City Council by Edmund Elkan
in 1906, its special charm being that it had been
used by the City of Vienna at banquets to the
Emperor of Austria. It lost its popularity when
the war began, and was turned out of the Council
Chamber. Elkan lately wrote that, if the City
fathers no longer attached any value to it, he might
as well have it bac4c; and they straightway voted
that he could.
It was appropriate that the fatal seizure which
ended Edwin Smith’s career should have come to
him while leaving the Town Hall, where he had
been to shake hands witli new Mayor Moulden,
grandson of an old colleague. Ilis favorite boast
was that, when he first became mayor of Adelaide,
over 40 years ago, not a house in Adelaide was
connected with the deep drainage; when he left
office not a house wasn’t. It is characteristic of his
love of leadership that neither in Norwood nor in
Adelaide did he ever fill any municipal office ex-
cept the mayoralty.
Since the announcement of the impending
marriage of Maggie Dickinson and Sydney
Yates their duet dancing in the Williamson
panto has become the main attraction for the
sentimental. A peculiar tenderness is de-
tected in Sydney’s method of holding Maggie
in his arms or hoisting her above his fair
young head, and she is believed to thrill with
emotion when her overjoyed fianed catches
her on the bound. The idea that the minds
of both the artists are bent on the business
of doing their act as gracefully as possible,
and that the hoisting of Maggie as though
she were a trifle light as air is rather a tough
job than a rapturous joy, doesn’t occur to
interested observers. They insist on viewing
all things romantically.
Tall Ronald Forbes handed younger sister
Reay over to ex-Flight-Lieut. Stanley Dobson
at Christ Church, South Yarra. The bride
dimpled happily in white chiffohry. Ethel
Spowers, of the Argus clan, bridesmaided
picturesquely in biscuit georgette with a
flower-wreathed hat and a bunch of autumn-
tinted dahlias.
One of our brightest young musicians,
Elsie Dickinson, was gently led into matri-
mony by Lieut W. B. Carnegie, at Scots’
Church, last week. The bride, a daughter
of Captain R. Dickinson, of Canterbury,
walked in ivory georgette. Breakfast at the
Oriental. The juvenile lead was last heard
of in the 59th Battalion. He is a son of
the late E. Carnegie, of Beith, Scotland, but
his mother is now living at Auburn.
In answer to inquiries, Minnie Love men-
tions that she is “not announcing” her
engagement for the present. So, of course,
there is not to be a hint of it. Nor of a
mariner who is spoken of as the prize-
winner.
Margot Lester, one of the Greens’ star
pupils, who has danced her way into the
J.C.W. cast, is a daughter of a well-known
theatrical light, Edwin Lester. The mother
was a Henningham.
“The Sleeping Beauty” at Her Majesty’s;
has plenty of bright costumes to keep her
awake. Her own wardrobe is not extra-
bewitching. but her frocks have a hint of
design and a flavoring of color to distinguish
them from mere clothes. Winifred Roma,
the principal boy, searches the rainbow for
novelties that will combine with her blonde
prettiness to produce optical paralysis. Yet
every one of her effusions, from a whole suit
of gold to an appealing apple-jelly effect and
a baggy-blue arrangement in the familiar
Dutch 'manner, leave the eye still yearning
for a knockout blow. Maggie Dickinson
threatens to deliver it as an ornithological
mystery soiled by the embrace of an unlikely-
looking fox. In the Ballet of the Lamp-
shades, where six pedestalled divinities
glisten against a vivid blue-black night,
Maggie looks like a blush spattered with gold-
dust, and the rich shimmer of her gown sug-
gests a heavy debit in the Williamson ledger.
The ladies of the ballet as usual are ingeni-
ously colored, but one wants to dream of
Paradise, after a champagne mixed with
absinthe and tomato sauce, to parallel then-
jaunty comeliness and splendor.
Among those who arrived by a liner lately
was a young Australian officer and his Eng-
lish bride, a most matter-of-fact and frugal
little lady. At Suez the wife, while looking
over the side, got mixed up with some tackle,
and went overboard. The lieutenant imme-
diately sprang to the rescue, and the pair
came to the surface together, the bride in
her hero’s arms. They were hauled aboard
amid cheers for the boy. The wife was little
distressed —until she surveyed her husband’s
clothes. “I’m so sorry about your suit, Wil-
liam,” she said then. “It’s ruined, ana it
was so unnecessary. Any one of the nativts
would have rescued me for a shilling.”


53R1311V9 39V30JLS ONIIVHdinS"NON
?!
I;
M
y
• , •
7*
/
<
m
& w■' VS? sa/-M3
m
s
W'",. ;
s
•"//
s
/. T
Kite
«
v*># < ;fc ,
s
“«s*
/1
/
ai m
m
* ;V
tliP ji'
iJIP
5a
ft
’ • *■ -'
■
wm
m
* . ;
1 £
f , A
€ fLW
d *Jtt£ k jst
m
k * *.> ':
m
-isr:
- -, i ’rW
■i
mmm
4ITH « JULIUS STUDIOS
iiiniii
eJSSSS?
DEPENDABILITY IN SERVICE
ABSOLUTE DEPENDABILITY UNDER
ADVERSE CIRCUMSTANCES—that is the
summing-up of the EVEREADY SERVICE.
Whenever the utmost in dependability is
absolutely essential, the EVEREADY STOR-
AGE BATTERY “makes good.” Whether
used on the battlefield in urgently telephoning
the fluctuations of attack and defence:; in the
EXCLUSIVE FEATURES.
The construction of the EVEREADY Storage Battery comprises
many new features not found in other types. The plates used
(in addition to having staggered ribs with keystone locking
design and grid, and being made of pure antimony-lead) are
cast with feet on bottoms of plates which rest alternately on
tops of the four bridges in hard rubber jars.
timed firing of mines; in driving the chief-of-
staff’s fast car; in the rigor of the motor-
transport’s heavy service; in these, and in the
kindred other uses in which batteries were used
—the EVEREADY Battery has demonstrated
its absolute dependability under the rigorous
demands. Is it any wonder, then, that the
EVEREADY stands pre-eminent to-day?
The EVEREADY Storage Battery is made of the best materials
the markets can furnish. The handles furnished with these
Batteries are designed to fit all kinds of hold-down arrangements.
A DEFINITE GUARANTEE.
Each EVEREADY STORAGE BATTERY is sold with a definite
guarantee against ruinous sulphation.
N.S.W.
DISTRIBUTING
AGENTS:
HAMILTON U CO. LTD., Clarence Street, Sydney.
AGENTS:
GRANT & BURROWS, Lismore.
BEARD, RICHARDSON & CARTER, Kempsey.
J. I. AUSTIN, Taree.
Mrs. LE PETIT, Armidale.
Further Country Agents required.
Mr. P. LE PETIT. Tamworth.
A. L. MURRAY, Dungog.
Distributing Agents for Victoria, Tasmania, West Australia and South Australia: HOLLAND
PTY., LTD., McKillop Street, Melbourne.
MARTIN, WILSON BROS., LTD., Brisbane, Agents for Queensland.
LAIDLAW & GRAY, LTD., Dunedin, Agents for South Island of N.Z.


Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
George V
fdh
CHAMPAGNE
CMAMPA.CNC
'JJarlEslieidsieo^
Reims
iSwii—gZP
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydnay.
£
'(trm.
ck Polish
nmRntNT.OLACEKmBax
Calf
Melboorne
i:::.;iiiuiianiliil
Did
you?
i! . m r I
min
IT'S NO TROUBLE NOW IF BOBBY TEARS HIS
CLOTHES. I SIMPLY MEND THEM WITH
Mend arTeajr
THAT WONDERFUL NEW MATERIAL WHICH
MENDS WITHOUT STITCHES. IT'S SO NEAT.
SO EFFECTIVE AND SO SIMPLE TO USE. I DO
Jus MPAIRS IN A QUARTER THE TIME."
Sample Outfit post free on
receipt of 1/4.
Sole Wholesale Distributors for New South
Wales and Queensland —
Bennett 8 Barkell Ltd.
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
am
ity'Jd
In Vanity Fair Silk
Gloves every effort
has been made to pro-
duce a glove of strength
in which appearance
has not been sacrificed
to secure durability. A
guarantee with every
pair means extra wear
for you or a replace-
ment free of charge.
At All Drapers.
VF 6
The Dainty Afternoon Teas served at the “PAVILION,” Circular Quay, Sydney, are patronised by the best people. Cid.estral performances daily
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Although Society refused to be lured from
its beaches by the Summer meeting, Rand-
wick was a billowing wave of joy on Boxing
Day. The midsummer finery of the young
things who came out had a tendency to creep
anklewards: the smartest frocks were peg-
tops, their fullness gathered in well down.
Some wonderful sashes were worn—wide,
thick silk-ribbons, embossed or embroidered
in bold designs; one of the handsomest by
Mrs. Willie Anderson, who girdled her floral
voile with an almost Oriental blue. Mayoress
Richards was there in black; the Kelso
King clan; Miss Burdekin in lime color:
Mrs. Downer, who ivas Connie Macfarlane,
in yellow. There was also a young woman
whose dress and cloak seemed to have been
-torn from a bazaar in the Torrid North;
and a lady in jade green who delighted the
members’ stand with a fine view of a sun-
shade the shape of an outstretched butter-
fly ; and a prudent lady who came with a
white dress and a shady hat, a rolled-up
umbrella, a silk macintosh over her arm—
and a rich ermine cape over her shoulders.
There were net and georgette frocks, models
in muslin and lace, newly-engaged Hilda
Love in a blue-feathered hat and her young
man in civvies; her Ex. very elegant in black
lace and soft satin and a string of pearls ;
the Knox battalion and gent.-helps Lamb
and Allison—and all watched in stunned
amazement Pah King make his sensation
finish.
His Ex. has word that Birdwood will
arrive in Sydney on April 3, and will re-
main in N. S. Wales 23 days. He says that
he wants to spend most of the time with
soldier settlers in the country, and hints
that he’d like to do some sheep-droving and
cattle-mustering. Perhaps, to give him a
better idea of the real life of the soldier-
settler this season, it might also be arranged
that he shall do some water-carting. That’s
the principal—in fact the only—industry in
progress on many western farms.
The basket is the symbol of the dilettante
shopper; the suit-case is for those who mean
business. You sefi it at the Quay and the
railway station, very important and capable-
looking in the hands of the well-dressed
Christmas shopper. Between King and Mar-
ket streets it flourishes; it smiles plethori-
cally at its fellows, bidding them the season\s
greetings. If you get off the tram at Saunders’s
Cbrner and turn towards Thomas-street, you
nreet it again. But now it is different; a
down-at-heel, out-of-shape poor-relation
affair that is sometimes a dress-basket,
hurrying towards the entrance of the Benevo-
lent Institution. The little woman who car-
ries it —they all seem little, as though the
struggle had been too much for them, and
they had shrunk—is sometimes in a raincoat,
in spite of the speckless sky ; sometimes in a
print dress. whose blouse and skirt don’t re-
semble each other at all. Two thousand of
these women passed in and out of the open
gate within two days! one hundred of them
the aftennath of influenza, the microbe hav-
ing left its seal for life on heart or eyesight.
A little way inside the gates you come upon
tiny, mosquito-netted cots under an awning.
In these are the Renwick babies; and every
one on Christmas Day had a rattle or a spood
tied to its cot. Further to your right is the
outdoor relief department, which is really
like a country store; at one counter you get
your bread, at the lower end the meat, and
still further around are the groceries. One
day there weirn toys; and 1000' mothers
carried home parcels to make Santa Claus
for the kiddies. But with the thousandth
mother the toys ran out.
Three hundred and forty strong they
manned the Sailors’ Welcome, young lads and
old lads, little men of Liverpool, fresh-cheeked
men of the South Counties, our own better-
set-up men, tall Norsemen whose brains
creaked in the effort to think; dapper little
Japs, mostly grey-clad and tan-booted, like
intelligent children trying to take in a lesson
at a gulp; some bland-faced Chinese, one a
great, massive chap, with an extraordinarily
Russian cast of featui-e. The elastic invita-
tion had .gone out from Chaplain Leplastrier
to every fo’c’s’le in Port Jackson; and, judg-
ing fi’om results, the fo’c’s’les turned them-
selves into dressing-rooms, and the men came
scraped and polished for the party. The
Gym. was packed with tables, all Chi-istmas-
bush and -bells, and the varied food of a merry
season. After H. Y. Braddon had been
clapped uproariously, there was what seemed
like a fusillade of musketry, but was only the
crackers going off, and not a pro tem. settle-
ment of national grievances. Then every
man put on his paper cap, and went ahead
till it came to the pudding, with a threepenny-
piece or two in every slice of it —the prize ot
all, a shining-new sixpence, going to a stal-
wart man of 14 or thereabouts, plainly on his
first voyage. Old friends of the Institute
formed the background, including tall, thin,
mourning-clad Mrs. T. P. Knox, Dr. Scot
Skirving (an old sailor he), Miss Doak, and
a brand-new helper in Chaplain Leplastrier s
flaxen-headed baby.
This lias been a kiddies’ Christmas.
Everybody has been giving Christmas-tree
parties. The Mother Rectress of _ St. Vin-
cent’s was hostess to nearly 2€oo little ones
last week, and the gardens surrounding the
building were gay with bunting. And the
Christmas trees this time were laden with
“real” toys. There were parcels of clothes,
too, for little girls and boys who had worn
through their wardrobes. The lunch was a
miracle of delights; and later off they went,
flags fluttering and band-playing, to the
King’s Cross Theatre, where a special movie
programme had been arranged for their
enjoyment.
If you had been going down Castlereagh-
street the other evening about half-past five,
you’d have se@n the cleaning staff of the
Tivoli held at bay by an army of small
children. They sat on the outside steps of
the theatre, and dotted the stairway to the
circle, chattering like magpies and finishing
up the sweets an ( fruit the management had
provided. This ,vas the end of the Empire
League’s cheerio to the little links of Empire-
Hugh D. had lent the theatre and provided
the sweets and toys, and the Tivoli artists
had lent themselves.
Maggie Dickinson, whose engagement to
Sydney Yates is announced, is a Melbourne
girl. She started as a star dancer with
the Meynell dnd Gunn firm. Gende, who
helped her a good deal, told people she might
rise to any old height in London or Paris.
Sydney Yates was born in Brisbane, but
learned his dancing in England. He and
Daisy Yates, his sister, came here under
engagement to the Firm.
This is the picture of Arthur Benjamin,
who has joined the teaching staff of the
Conservatorium. Born in Sydney 25 years
ago, as soon as he
could walk lie made
his way to the piano.
Became serious about
crotchets and quavers
iu Ms seventeenth
year, and went to
England to dig out
further information
concerning them.
Charles Stanford,
impressed by some of
his youthful exer-
cises, advised him to
try for the Open
Scholarship for com-
position ; lie tried
and in 1911 plucked
the prize. His first
composition heard in
public in London—
for baritone and orchestra —was performed
at the Queen’s Hall. And the same hall
saw his first appearance as pianist; he played
in a concerto written for him by his friend
Herbert Howells, with the New Symphony
Orchestra conducted by Charles Stantoid.
When the war broke out he enlisted with
the Royal Fusiliers, got his commission and
served two years. Later he joined the
Royal Air Force. Fritz got him then, but
only as prisoner. Brisbane is his home,
but Sydney will know him for the next two
years.
According to London gossips writing to
Australian papers “piquant revelations con-
cerning exalted personages m Britain are
looked for in the memoirs of the German ex-
Crown Prince” ; and they wonder whether he
will tell about the scandal he himself was
saved from in India. There is no great mys-
tery about the prince’s effort. He fell in love
with an Indian princess whom he had first
met in Europe —she was being educated
in Paris at the time. In India he
made repeated attempts to _ visit her,
but was tied down by official engage-
ments. Finally he told his bear-leaders
—a pair of elderly Boche colonels to go
to blazes, or words to that effect; and
started off in a high-powered motor-car for
the girl’s State. It was the eve of several
very big functions in Calcutta; and it was
particularly desirable that there should be
no scandal amongst the natives. One of
the vice-regal A.D.C.’s and a friend started
ir. pursuit, bearing an appeal from the Vice-
roy to the royal philanderer. The person
detailed to present the missive was the more
influential of the two colonels. The party
caught up to the young man at the very
gates of the lady’s residence, and after pro-
longed and angry argument he consented 10
give over. The Crown Prince may have
been wary in War, but he was an undoubted
trier in Love. Mrs. T. H. Kelly was stay-
ing with the Ruthvens in India when he was
there, and anyone in quest of piquancy need
only buy the book she published when she
came back. His favorite pastime at dances
appears to have been to lure young women
whom he had met but a moment before into
unlighted gardens and try to persuade them
to sit on his knee.
David Fell, who married into the peerage
on his last trip to London, got back to
Sydney with his wife in the Ormonde.
Miss Rose Scott'gave her Christmas party
the other evening. This is an intimate affair
which happens every year, each guest receiv-
ing a gift and a graceful speech from the
hostess, who this time looked like an Old
Master with her long-trained black silk
dress, its old-lace fichu held together by a
large, delicately-blue butterfly. A few old
friends and some tiny grand-nieces and
nephews were the invited guests.
The Soldiers’ Welcome next to St.
Andrew’s put up its shutters on the 31st.
There was to be a great, farewelling on that
day, though the chief helpers had already
been cheered on by their different bands. Sec.
Mrs. Roorke got off with a silver tea-kettle,
Mrs. Archgaiters Wright had a travelling
wallet, Mrs. Arthur Friend adds a handsome
silver salver to the domestic problem, and
Mrs. Scrivener’s girls filled her bowl with
the handsomest roses the North Shore line
could produce. But the girl who had the
greatest send-off of all was little Miss Mathe-
son. While she was getting a pre-nuptial pat
on the back in the regions of the washing-up
basin, the boys in the front of the house
asked what the row was, and on being told de-
manded the bride-to-be’s appearance in front
of the curtain. The whisper came around to
the back, and one of the heads asked the
little helper to run out and place a vase on
one of the tea-tables. Then assembled Dig-
ger arose and nearly blew the thistledown bit
of womanhood off the premises with the rous-
ing cheer he gave.
In Sydney at present you can’t write a
poem, do a murder or sell a pound of cheese
without trombone and xylophone accompani-
ment. There were too many street bands
before the Musicians’ Union went out on
strike; now the'flood of melody washes round
every street corner. It begins early, just
about the time the business man is opening
his letters and wondering how much lower the
typiste is going to wear her blouse. Three
musicians arrive in the gutter opposite, set
up stands and start to blow very tenderly
some slow sunset dirge called “The Curse of
a Broken Heart.” It is an ideal song for
sentimentalists coming home from a picnic,
but it doesn’t suit the get-rich-quick atmo-
sphere of early morning. So it isn’t aston-
ishing that city business men have been
pouring out their woes to Chief Secretary
Fuller, who has handed the problem on to his
head bobby. But the right man for the job
is obviously Verbrugghen. _He would
probably reduce more of the noise than any
policeman, and leave us more of the music.
Beaufort Burdekin, Mrs. Alex. Hay’s only
brother —Sydney, the elder boy, was killed
early in the war —has just been called to the
Bar in London. He was at Oxford when the
great killing began and finished up as a cap-
tain in the R.F.A.
Dorothy Helmrich was at latest staying in
Park-lane with the Cooper lady and her
title. Dorothy’s appearance before some
London critics was a great moment. They
threaten her with a Career—perhaps not
Melba-like, but big enough to be written with
a capital.
’Cellist Laurie Kennedy, the Randwick
boy, and his wife, who was Adelaide’s
pianist Dorothy Mcßride, are now in
New York, and the news recently came
through that a son was born to the young
musicians. Laurie Kennedy, who, by the
way, is cousin to Daisy, was given a trial
by the Edison Gramophone people. He
played a couple of nittnbers and the records
were such a success that they have been
sent along to Edison, which is considered a
great honor.
Peggy King-Salter’s engagement comes as
a surprise to a Sydney that has never been
certain whether she would appear at parties
with curling hair blowing about her shoulders
or shorn of her glory, not like Absalom, but
by a packet of hairpins. At one dance last
winter Peggy accentuated her youthfulness
by wearing heelless shoes. She has pro-
mised to wed Lieut.-Commander Palliser, of
H.M.A.S. Brisbane.
The King-Salter family is pulling up
sticks preparatory to a visit to England.
Return to Australia is problematical. Mrs.
King-Salter will be greatly missed among
the militants of St. James’s.
The Willie Beiths, who sail for King
George’s Land on the 10th. gave their fare-
well hop- at Darling Point last week.
Daughter Toto presented her miniature
charms in a frock of emerald green geor-
gette ; and mother was a background in
black. The Sep Levys—mother and son —
the Laidleys, Mortons and Venour Nathans,
Captain Cumberlege and his wife the Mac-
arthur twins and newly-engaged Hilda Love
and her Flag-Lieutenant Lyon were among
the chosen who danced the night through.
Dad Beith takes little excursions up the
side-paths of Art. Photography is a craze
with him, and he designs candle shades and
futuristic cushions that make guests wonder
if it is the night before or the morning after
the party.
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax, after a stay in
Sydney full of good works, which included a
shoulder to the wheel during Y.W.C.A. hostel
week, has gone back to her Queensland home,
Cambooya.
Louise Mack has been telling her thrilling
war-time experiences to the Maorilanders,
and they have taken the heroine to their
bosoms. Louise of Antwerp was entertained
by Joseph Ward’s well-dressed missus the
other day; and for the occasion the visit-
ing lady donned “a jade green miroir velvet
cloak over her V.A.D. uniform,” and told all
about her V.A.D. work in France and her
adventures in Belgium.
The W. H. Kelly home is to be enriched by
some beautiful crystal and jade. These carv-
ings are Chinese reproductions of the God-
like people of the legends of that very
ancient country. Even in the heat of Christ-
mas week the bits of crystal were so cold
that they would have served to stack the
ice-chest had the ice-men gone on strike.
The treasures, with strings of wonderful
amber and amethyst and some unblemished
bits of embroidered Mandarin draperies and
fans, are the latest arrival in Sydney from
the North.
Here’s a line from Yetta Rosenbloom, who
has been lotus-eating in Java: —
The other day when visiting Bandoeng we were
entertained by the arrival of the Sultan of Solo —
that’s Soerakarta, one of the two semi-independent
sultanates in this otherwise Dutch island. Five jade-
green touring cars conveyed his suite, 35 in all. His
recently-acquired bride, a slim, graceful Javanese,
alighted first. She wore a jade-green satin jacket
with her brown and gold batik sarong (skirt), and
her jewels of huge diamonds and emeralds were in
the form of eagle brooches and hair ornaments. The
gold payong (umbrella) that shielded the Sultan was
held by two stalwart natives in jade-green cloth
liveries. His Majesty, a pasty, flabby individual,
was dressed in a conventional grey tweed, but
neatly turbaned as to the head; and his expansive
chest visibly heaved under the weight of a huge
diamond-encircled enamel “order,” a gift from Hol-
land’s queen. By their happy faces the five dis-
carded wives proclaimed how uncomplainingly they
accept their discharge from favor. They were
attired in violet and brown and gaily alighted from
the second car. Many dignified officials in dark blue
and silver uniforms formed an imposing crowd. AJ1
day the streets were thronged with patiently-waiting
natives. They who were near the hotel got some
reward that evening when, attended by six servants,
the Sultan sat himself down between two huge
windows, uncurtained and brilliantly lighted. After
much salaaming a valet carefully removed his
garments to the waist. Another came forward with
a gold salver, on which were various gold bowls.
From these another valet proceeded to anoint the
Sultan’s head, face and shoulders. Occasionally others
entered with gold salvers, bearing nourishment which
appeared to be administered at given intervals, while
a silver-framed hand-glass reflected his gastronomic
interruptions. Finally, from a dummy stand his
official uniform was taken and put on. After five
days of official visits and shopping they left to pay
a two-hour visit to the T. and P. lands, one of the
largest English estates in Java. They were received
by Mr. Hammond, the. director, and when they left
they gave him' an ebony stick with a diamond-and-
ruby top-piece.
Tony Hordern got back last week, after
Red Crossing for four years, more or less.
His wife, who is a cousin of the Maddens, of
Melbourne, was with him in Cairo during
1915, and she subsequently went on to Lou-
don. He comes between Sam and Lebby in
point of seniority.
Among recent winners of Scots’ College
bursaries is Kenneth Barratt, grandson of
one of the directors of Rylands, Ltd. Old-
timers over the Darling will be interested to
know that he’s a grandson of Mr. Brown,
owner of “the Dreadnought of the Darling,
the Florence Annie, whose hoot was as well
known to the liver as night or morning.
Not much has been said here about the
recent death of Violet Cameron. Yet she
was one of the brightest things that ever
appeared in comic opera. She was at her
best in the early ’eighties at the Comedy,
Londdn, when she was in her early twenties.
She was equally delightful in skirts, in
“Mascotte” or “Rip Van Winkle” (with the
Fred Leslie of that period), or in the other
things, in “Boccaccio.” She had a fine deep
voice and a frank and friendly manner. Of
the players that Australia has seen, Dorothy
Vane was perhaps the most like her.


The Tire
fd
Time to
Re-Ti re?
BuyFiSK
Handsome Alike
in Appearance
* f
o
in,
JS?
and
Performance.
For EVERY Car “Fisk” Tyres
are the “wheel equipment par
excellence.” Their handsome
appearance and the wonderful
service they give on every kind
of road have made them pre-
eminently popular the world
over. Service is the watchword
in the manufacture of “Fisk”
Tyres —they are the best and
most beautiful tyres that
highest-grade material and.
accurate machinery can pro-
duce.
Ask Your Garage to Supply “FISK
PRODUCED IN ALL SIZES.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA:*
JAMES WARDLE & CO., WEST VICTORIA SQUARE, ADELAIDE.
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N. S. Wales: The Fisk Tire Agency (JAMES WARDLE & CO., Proprietors), 4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Victoria and Riverina: JOHN F. GOULDING, 515 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Western Australia: R. F. S. BARDON, Hay Street, Perth.


<a
r,
K-i
* J 'HE man who dofs Khaki
•* has the Satisfaction of
knowing he’s done his bit. And
when donning "cioies ” again,
his PELACQ collar gioes him
the satisfaction of knowing that
it is “Australia’s Best’’ — com-
fortable, good-looking, and
made to last.
Sold by all Mercers.
COLLARS
Wear also Pelaco
Shirts and
Pyjamas
“THERE'S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
(8
m
The above
is the title 1
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s -famous artist.
It explains the
.difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
AVeston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.’’
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
170 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
£
<
rr
%
V
This Is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
C/b*
818 Little Collins St„ Melbourne.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
hfd
Texas Saddle
No. 90.
This illustrates a Texas type
of Saddle we are making in
our own Workrooms. It is
a Saddle giving Satisfaction
wherever we send it.
It is made in Heavy Brown Leather, and the Horn
is Forged Steel. The Seat and Cantle are in one
piece of heavy leather, and the Skirts are lined with
Felt. The Stirrup Leathers are 2in. wide, and
have broad Fenders. It is fitted with 2 cord Girths
or Cinchas, and Wooden Stirrups.
£9/17/6
Freight Free for Cash with Order
to any N.S.W. Port or Station on
N.B.W. Railway System.
WE STOCK AMERICAN-MADE TEXAS
SADDLES—Write for Particulars.
K'BURRA
Stockwhips.
KBUR
KOO
KOO
HIPS
8ft., 1 *2-pi">i..
Hit.., 10-plait.«
ftrt.. 12-plait .
!)tt., lfl-pl-iit...
19/6
22/-
21 /«
24/6
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOGUE. 130
PAGES OF INTEREST TO EVERY
lIORSEOWNER. SPECIAL FREIGHT
TERMS TO OTHER STATES.
Handles for Bft. thongs, 15/6 and 17/6. or 9ft.
thongs, 17/. and 19/-. POST FREE FOR CASH.
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.,
Saddlers, 393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
<D
TooHi Powder
IHIIIIIIIIII I! II till 111 11
WILLIAMS* Dentalactic
Tooth Powder is a pure
gritless powder of velvet
smoothness. It cannot scratch
either the enamel of the teeth or
the finest gold fillings while it
preserves the teeth by keeping them
beautifully polished and thoroughly
clean and free from tartar. Highly pleas-
ant to use, it leaves the mouth with a de-
licious sense of coolness and freshness.
You will find Williams’ Dentalatfic
Dental Cream equally cleansing, hy-
gienic, and antiseptic.
W. 9 old by chemists every where.
Conspicuously Well Hatted but not
Hatted Conspicuously.
Jinnt
Spring and Summer Models.
Stetson
Knox
Herbert Johnson
Tress
/ Scott’s
A. J. White
Woodrow’s.
3kltari> Jnnt
314 George Street
(near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
Business Notices.
•T'HE “GIPPSLAND SPINNER,” designed, proved
and made in Australia, beats all the imported
lures. Irresistible for perch, trout, etc.
Makes angling a serene and lasting joy. Send
2/-, P.N. or stamps, to “SPINNER,” 561 Dowling
Street, Moore Park, Sydney, N.S.W.
Abbey Shoes!
—the footwear that adds the final touch
of distinction to a well-dressed appear-
ance and gives the utmost in comfort
and service.
We feature a high-grade Patent Derby Bal.,
Price . . 63/-
Also in Tan Willow Calf,
Price . . 52/6
Stocked in half-sizes and narrow, medium
and wide fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Streetf
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A’e notice (except of a hostile character ) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. Ao
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamjts accompany.
Don Three: Good ideas in “Satiddee” ; but
it walks a bit too stiffly.... Kecip. C.: There’s the
stuff in the bores : hut it breaks down on the dialogue
form H.C.S.: Sorry; it’s not up. Better put
,it aside for a while.... Mac: Nothing to
recommend it... .J.K.: “The Paper” has little
attraction.... D. 8.: “Riding Song” is too jumbled.
....Meg: Poor verses.... Frank L. (S. Africa):
None of any use Herb. D.: Don’t remember it.
Always glad to read pars... .H.C.V.: Leeds,
etc., off our beat, unless you can give
what you found there an Australian significance.
.....Jack A.W.: The heading, “A Swelled Head
Poet; or a Lucky Crocodile,” gave a promise,
which wasn’t fulfilled... .Xile: Not much good; in
fact, no blanky g00d.... Tlermish: Sent the two sets
of verses to our most cherished enemy, hoping they
will be the end of him. .. .C.1.D.: Verses returned,
without the compliments of the season.... Henry
Mack: You have the idea, but you’re using other
men’s phrases. Co on your own idea of Outback.
. ...Basiel: Don't go much on “Bravo 1 Dear Old
England”... .Scissors: Better take the lady away to
some place where you can properly appreciate her
ankle. . . .J.K.: No idea in it... .Goodwieh: All right,
get on to the descriptive line.... Mat: “The Baker’s
Dream” is dough... .Jack A.W.E.: No g00d....
Nellie A.E.: “Unforgetting, Xmas, 1919,” hasn’t
included all the things that should be forgotten.
When you come to think it over one can’t recollect
all the things that ought to be forgotten.... Mars:
Sketch doesn't amount to anything... .Lawc-lark:
How could it possibly be of interest to know whom
Tommy married?... .K.M.G.: No mirth there except
of the heavily overworked sort Bound: Verses
quoted in this column are printed from the original
M.S. If a mistake occurs it is 99 times-out of a
hundred because the M.S. is exceptionally bad....
Liason: Well written and observed; but done dozens
of times. Try new ground.... F.A.M.: “Art of
Repartee” is dull stuff with the mould of age on
its whiskered jokes. .. .lviss: Any request to re-write
was addressed to somebody else with the same initials.
....ILL. (St. Kilda) : Same old thing... .F.R.G.:
You’re 011 a wrong track. Get to grips with reality.
. ...G.D.S.: “Sauer-kraut” hasn’t enough in it....
W.F.: This should make the blossom sit up: —
. ...C.J.D.: No use.... Timothy G.: The sorrowful
tale is tangled into too many knots. .. .John W.: One
gag Height d 0.... Bosh: No use to us... .R.A.8.:
Loose and lacking in interest.... Alex. W.: “Burden”
must go back. The “ghost” held for inquest....
L.F.N.: No good. .. . W.J.8.: The verse is fair in
shape, but it follows the Commonplace track....
Febrad: Worn to rags. .. .C.M.L.: They are net well
enough done.... Avoirdupois: Ideas scarce ; and the
bumping of the lines shook our teeth. . . .A.A.P.: As
the yarn is told, it seems impossible to get the hang
of it.... Quart Pot: It doesn’t move us... .E.H.0.:
An idea there, but it is a very rough sonnet....
Pax: “Talbot Alexander” and his millions don’t
seem to matter. .. .M.A.R.: Salvation by fist is a
very old theme and has been better done. .. .
G. : “Forbidden” ought to say a lot more....
H. : Fair verse, but with no sparkle in it. The
thing might be a funeral oration. Yarn too slight.
.... Stanley C.: That mournful sing-song would spoil
anything... .J.S.L.: Same subject of the unkissed
handled better before. “Ship of Stone” hasn’t quite
the touch 11.E.J.: Nephew’s effort shows promise;
but it is only promise so far... .H.C.S.: No. ...
Shamus R.: Neither of them up....M.K. (Perth):
Nowhere near Plumb-bob: A cricket yarn should
show some feeling for cricket. .. .V.S.W.: Not nearly
up T.R.D.: No use to us The Dub: As far as
we can read it it won’t do.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.S.G.W.: Sorry can’t use it... .Kaph: Unsuitable.
. ...M.G.: Keep them for some paper that gives
away a microscope with every copy... .C.1.F.: Bury
the two wrangling suburbanites. ... .C.M.: Miniature
swagmen made of w00d... .L.M.C.: You are beauti-
fully indefinite. The leg of the beach-beauty merges
into her Jap umbrella... .E.P.: Afraid we can’t
afford to keep your Noah’s Ark L.S.: The
“celebrated physician” has too much stomach and
too little chest. He should have a better chair
in his consulting-room. Draw him a reasonable chair
and a new stomach T.D.G.: No, we won’t sand-
bag a bush artist. All the same, it is going home to
you A.J.8.W.: Just ugly. .. .A.J.McR.: You
might have sent us a motor-car instead of a coal-
waggon or a hearse Frank K.: Good try. Have
another shot or two... .J.H.: Can’t spare space for
detailed criticism. Study on. .. .W.A.J.: Too
scratchy D.D.T.: You fuss over details and let
the drawing go to blazes.
“Ack Beer” : What the Aussie hat did for
the Digger in France the American flag
nearly managed to do for the Doughboy. Une.
Sam‘shipped Stars and Stripes to France
by the million. The Yankee has an R.C.
Y-emma, the Knights of Columbus. They had
in the centre of Paris, and
every few "ays they organised a sight-
seeing trip for the Americans on leave.
About 40 char-a-bancs with seats arranged
grandstand fashion would be drawn up out-
side the headquarters. The cars had em-
blazoned on each side the sign, “K. of C.
Americans seeing Pains.” As each man
boarded the car he was handed a little
American flag to wave. Then, after a lot of
cheering, the procession would leave. As
they reached each place of interest the
knight in charge would relate to them in
good American the history of the place. The
story usually lasted about five minutes. I
saw many humorous things in Paree, but
the earnest way in which those Yanks waved
their little flags beat any other show in
town.
() white flower, magnificent, appealing mutely,
A work of Nature, wrought exquisitely,
Thou upraise thy head on thy slender, green stem.
Thou are set in the garden, pure a gem.
And so I pray ; 1 beg of thou,
Sing me one song. Tell me how
The morning dew, glittering in sunlight,
Caressed thy brow in the dawning daylight.
Or would thy song be sweetly sorrowful,
Of how soon thou wilt cease to be wondrously beauti-
ful,
Telling me how thou wilt droop, fade and whither,
Thy snow-pure petals tossed hither and thither.
And my heart grows sad, tears spring to my eyes,
I know’st thou wilt fall, never to rise,
But, though your fate be tragic, of your beauty
shorn,
Whilst thou live, white flower, thou art lovely as
dawn.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de -
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Looms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries,
bor all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, G Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley-—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JANUARY .14,
VENTURA.
10,0u0 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY",
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A.: Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 691,850 10 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq.;
W. H. Hart, Esq.; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Brandies —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Afrloa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors : HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman ;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D.; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 146 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of Now Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £629,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-'
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
transacts all other usual Bankin;
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
SYDNEY OFFICE: 105 PITT BTREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £500,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. . 570,000
£1,070,000
Uncalled capital . . .. .. 125,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 625,000
£1,820,000
Hea'd Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 85 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping:,
etc.
Canadiaii-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow., Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
I.M.S. MAKURA, January.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, February.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World —the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Palls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco,via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
Tile Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
0
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors :
£4,000,000
8,200,000
4,000,000
\
£11,200,000
The Hon. Sir Cnarles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland. Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq., M.H.R.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Bussell French, K.BJ3.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
jS
HEAD OFFICE
jyHbtralia
SYDNEY. ■
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2782 Post Offices through*
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
War Service Homes, as Agent for the Commissioner
(A special Department in each Capital City)
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1920 Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid np £2,382,018 15 0
Reserve Fund - £2,120,000 0 0
Reserve Capital £2,500,000 0 0
£7,002,018 15 0
9
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman,
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 348 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers— The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
SYDNEY INTER-STATE
SUB-COMMITTEE.
INTER-STATE PASSENGER SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, AND
FREMANTLE.
FOR BRISBANE, PORT ALMA, MACKAY, BOWEN
JETTY, TOWNSVILLE JETTY AND CAIRNS.
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Lunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for out-ports.)
Huddart Parker
Magnifioent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.—ReguIar sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA. —From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FIFE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourna
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by B.S. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company * magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Mnrwilluinbuh,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company'* up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail ami saloon on
steamer, £6 13s. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 7s. 6d.
For particulars apply :
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address:
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton $ Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ut<l.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS EOlt:
Biitish India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co, (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San' Francisco .Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports). _ , .
Huddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


Oft Land and Sea and in the Air
—under all conditions, and in all weathers, the Liberty (Bosch)
Magneto furnishes a never-failing stream of power—giving the last
ounce of vigor and snap—economising petrol and ensuring supreme
ignition service.
For the absolute in efficiency and dependability, your car,
boat or aeroplane should be Liberty-equipped.
The LIBERTY MAGNETO
The Original Bosch.
DISTRIBUTORS:
VICTORIA—WeIch, Perrin & Co., Queen’s Bridge St., S. Melbourne.
IV.S.W.—George Wills & Co., Ltd., York St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND —Elphinstone’s Agencies, Queen St., Brisbane.
S-A.—McGregor, Ltd., King William St. r Adelaide.
W.A.—W. E. Grigo & Co., King- St., Perth.
NEW ZEALAND (except Auckland Province) —The Dominion Motors,
Ltd., Courtenay Place, Wellington.
Auckland Province: Trevithick, Ltd., Auckland.
Edison Blue Amberol
Recordstor December
This may well be termed the “Christmas, List of Records,’’
since so many are in keeping with the festive season.
“Song of Ages—Christmas Song,’’ “Christmas, Christmas,
Blessed. Blessed Day,” “We Three Kings of Orient Are”
(an old Christmas Carol). “God Rest You, Merry Gentle-
men” —those are some instances of how appropriate these
Records are. The Concert List includes Xavier Leroux’s
“Le Nil,” with violin obligato and orchestra.
You will be able to select many -favorites from the full
list.
r
t*
Blue Amberol Concert Records
28282—0 Sole Mio .(My Sunshine), E. di
Capua, Tenor, in Italian, orch. aee.
Guido Ciccolini
28286 —Gypsy Trail, T. B. Galloway.
Bass Baritone, orch ace.
Arthur Middleton
-Le Nil, Xavier Leroux, Soprano, in
French, violin obligato and orchestra.
Odette Le Fontenaj-
Blue Amberol Regular Records.
3345 — Joy to the World, Our Lord is Born
To-day, Mixed Voices, orch aec.
Metropolitan Quartet
3346 God. Rest You, Merry Gentlemen,
Mixed Voices, orch acc. Carol Singers
3347 — Old Jim’s Christmas Hymn,
Baritone and Chorus, orch acc.
Edward Allen
3348 Birthday of a King-, Cornet, orch acc.
Pietro Capodiferro
3349 We Three Kings of Orient Are,
Mixed Voices, orch. acc. Carol Singers
3352 —Christmas, Christmas, Blessed, Blessed
Day, Mixed Voices, orch. acc.
Metropolitan Quartet
3371 —-That’s Why My Heart is Calling You,
Tenor, orch. aec. Vernon Dalhart
3497—Submarine Attack, LTnaccompajiicd.
Premier Quartet and Company
3525 —-We Stopped Them at the Marne,
Male Voices, orch. acc.
Premier Quartet
3532 —I’ll Think of You —The Rainbow Girl,
Soprano and Tenor, orch. "acc.
. Gladys Rice and Vernon Dnlhart
3533 — Rainbow Girl, Fox-trot.
Jazzarimba Orchestra
3534 — Come Along Ma Honey (Down Upon the
Swanee), Contralto, orch. aec.
Helen Clark
3535 — Sunshine of Your Smile, Tenor, orch ace.
Vernon Dalhart
3539—Bohemian Girl Selection.
Creatore and his Band
3541—Trumpeter’s Carnival, March Militaire.
New York Military Band
3548 Homeward Bound, Tenor, orch ace.
George Wilton Ballard
3549 — Bring Me a Letter from My Old Home
Town, Tenor, orch. ace. Reese Jones
3550 Camouflage, One-step, for Dancing.
New York Military Band
3551 We’ll Do Our Share (While You’re Over
There), Mixed Voices, orch ace.
Harmony Four
3559 —Good and Bid, Coon Sketch.
Billy Golden and Billy Heins
3561—Sweetest Story Ever Told, Tenor, orch.
acc. Ralph Errolle
3621—Song of Ages—Christmas Song, Sacred,
orch acc. , Metropolitan Quartet
THOMAS A. EDISON. LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
pom
• •»
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
h
‘A marvel at the price.”
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle* 22 calibre, 18in.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2Alb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
22/6
fdh
“Simple and extra strong in construction
810. Winchester Single-shot Riile, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all. 3T§in.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 2/-; other States, 3/8.)
47/6
fdh
BIM. The Celebrated “Maine” Rifle, designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim lire.
It can he taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is round, 18in. ‘long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate
At eight about 31b., fitted with plain V-back- sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6: other States, 2/8.)
30/-
.
Si
i
“Suitable for small game and target shooting
85. Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeating
Rifle, 22 calibre; magazine holds 15 short, 13
long or. 11 long rifle cartridges, mixed or separate; 20in. round barrel
length over all, 35in.; weight 411 b .; slide action, blade
front and screwrear sights Freight paid,
65/-
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
fdh
“Shoots ivitli guaranteed accuracy.”
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 10-sliot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long or long rifle cartridges; weight, about sflb. ..
Freight paid,
95/-
fd
“EVER READY” PATENT
CIGARETTE MAKER
Simple and durable. Nothing to get out of order.
Full instructions with each one. PRICE Bd. POST FREE
ats
IS
“.4 suitable weapon for the boy.”
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre. Tt.F
round barrel. 20in.. chambered for long rifle cart
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock.
front and rear sights; weight. 41b
(Postage—-N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
open
3 51-
hfd
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
CB9. Remington Automatic Ham me rless
Rifle, Model IGA, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of ban-el 22
indies. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight 5311).
Freight paid,
£7/10/-
Marble’s Waterproof Match-boxes.
Absolutely Water= and Moisture-proof.
Made of Seamless Drawn Brass, Heavily Nickelled.
Indispensable to the Outdoorsman. Post free,
3|12
hfd
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles,
Model, 25/20-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b:
With Round Darrel Freight paid,
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid,
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire?' full or half magazines,
20in. round barrel, weight about sslb Freight paid,
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List Post Fiee to any address.
1892
£5/15/-
£6
£5 10/-
IC.
immons
JJUSTRZLm'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS’
JIM) TOBACCONISTS
h
City Sports Depot
99 King St T also at
Newcastle d Brisbane


Delightful Miss Madge Elliott
is a REXONA Girl.
3
Miss Madge Elliott is one
of the most charming artists
of the J. C. Williamson Co.
Ltd., and has rapidly come
to the front as a clever and
artistic solo dancer. To see
Miss Elliott is to love her.
Dear Sirs, —
Add me to your Rexona
Club, please. If anyone
deserves election I do,
for I use nothing but
Rexona Soap for my
bath, my complexion and
my hair. If I knock my-
self in hurrying on or off
the stage, or get a little
stiff, I use Rexona. It
is worth its weight in
gold in one’s medicine
chest. Please notify me
when elected.
I am,
Yours sincerely,
(Signed)
MADGE ELLIOTT.
Miss MADGE ELLIOTT ( from, a photo).
THEY GO TOGETHER
Beauty and REXONA.
The Kexona Remedies consist of Rexona the Rapid Healer and Rexona Skin and
I'aeial Soap, both universal favorites. Noted dancers and acrobats find Rexona
unequalled as a rub-down for stiff muscles, as well as for the knocks and cuts of
everyday life. Rexona Soap gives natural beauty to the skin and hair, and is a
favorite with every girl and woman who values her appearance. Rexona the Rapid
Healer is sold at 1/6 and 3/-, and a dainty tablet of Rexona Soap is only 1/-.
THE RAPID HEALER
,
;
mwm
l¥TTjrrc"l77W7imi
HAVE you changed from one motor-car to another because
the operating cost has been too high?
A Maxwell Motor-car stays out of the repair shop.
It goes on and on. And yet its price is remarkably low. Why?
We buy raw materials in great quantities. We build no
engineering “knick-knacks” into a Maxwell.
Our road engineers spend twelve months a year testing
Maxwell Cars for weaknesses. They find the mistakes, if there
are any, before they get into production. The mistakes are not
passed on to you.
300,000 Maxwell Cars have been built on the original
simple motor design. Five years concentration on one good
motor design leads to perfection.
All uneven action is taken out of the Maxwell Car by our
engineering department.
There are many other economies. These are your insurance
against trouble and expense, when you operate a Maxwell
Motor-car.
MAXWELL MOTOR CO., Inc.,
OF DETROIT, MICH.
John D. Williams & Company,
Export Distributors.
2 Rector Street, New York.
Cable Address: “Liandum —'New York."
More miles per gallon
More miles on tyres.,
Messrs. Clutterbuck Bros. Ltd.
26-38 City Road, Sydney.
His War Bride.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
r FE Ljht aSt ni^ht> as w e dipped Gabo
-*■ I d vi blu ? , ifc through and play the
bloomin’ man ; J
put in the sun is dilf’rent to the night
And now I wonder how tli’ hell I can ’
pull off me bluff; I’m shakin’ like a tree
For Norah will be waitin’ there for mef
sphere’s Watson’s Bay—we’ll drop the anchor
here;
An hour or so of grace before I see
phe mob who wait to welcome, p’r’aps to
cheer,
Jim Price, the D.C.M., the hero, me!
Gawd, don’t I wish old Fritz had won the
toss,
Brought off my stunt, and got his Iron Cross!
P’r’aps Fritz, like me, had queered some
other Jane,
And never wrote his tart who loved him
true;
P’r’aps Fate, through me, saw fit to save
her pain.
And so, through me, Fritz died like heroes do :
Love finds excuses for the one who’s gone.
But I’ve me shame to live, and carry on!
Those ten days’ leave from France! The
Western Front
Ain’t half so dangerous as Leicester Square!
I reckoned so, and thought I’d do me stunt
Out Hampstead way, and spend in quiet
the*e
Me ten days’ leave. 'Twas there that I
met Anne,
And she was soft and yielding; me, a man !
Me Aussie uniform was fresh and new;
It cost me seven good quid up in the Strand.
The feathers in me hat were dinkum, too,
And I was shaved, and clean, and feelin’
grand.
I think she loved me almost from the start;
I know I done me block in on that tart.
Them walks upon the Heath, the full-orbed
moon,
Them August nights, her soft, encirclin’
arm!
We drifted on and never thought how soon
It all would end, or how ; enough the charm
Of Love. We’d lie upon the grass
And watch the searchlights as they’d cross
and pass. v
It all seemed right and proper; where the
crime
To snatch a few short hours of joy like
this?
I never thought of Norah all that time,
Nor of the ring, nor of our farewell kiss,.
Gawd! Sydney seemed a Land o’ Make-
believe ;
And here was peace, and love, and ten days’
leave.
I left her when them fatal days were
through—
She carried on munition-making there.
Before we parted, “Jim,” she says, “now,
true,
If things should happen, say you’ll treat me
square.”
“Why, j 7 es,” I says, “I’m man enough for
that.
So long, old girl,” and left her on her pat.
“Gawd bless you, Jim” —her words kept
cornin’ back:
The train-wheels said ’em as we sped along;
The churnin’ screw sang them along our
track
From Deal to Havre, and still I felt no
wrong.
But when I joined me cobbers at the Front
I soon forgot that little Hampstead stunt.
Hell, ain’t this world a bloomin’ two-up
school!
October saw me back behind the lines,
With shrapnel holes to keep me like a fool
With nightmare dreams o’ bustin’ German
mines.
Doc. looked at me; I seen him shake his
head.
“It’s Blighty right enough,” w 7 as all he said.
It might ha’ been a year, a week, a day—
It’s all a muddled dream o’ pain to me.
Then gradually the mists all cleared away ;
A sister props me up one day to see
The papers—she had kept me four of them —
That told me how I’d fluked the D.C.M.
And then she passed me out an envelope.
I gave a glance to see the kangaroo—
Old George’s head w 7 as there to damp me
hope.
I opens up the note and wonders who
Had wrote me here. “Dear Jim,” the chit
began;
Then at the foot I read “Your loving Anne!”
“Dear Jim,” she wrote; “you said you’d
treat me square
When you and me last August said good-
bye ;
I wrote you twice when you was over there
To say as how 7 with grief and shame I’d die
If you went w 7 est, and me with May to face;
Oh, Jim, come back and save me from dis-
grace !
“I saw the news about your D.C.M.;
When others spoke of it fear turned to pride,
Though I’d have died before I said to them
‘He promised me that I should be his bride
If things went w r rong.’ Oh, Jim, for love or
shame,
Come back and give the coming one a name!’’
“Your loving Anne!” —and Norah loves me
too!
Gawd’s truth, me bloomin’ head seemed all
aflame!
I lay and wmndered what I ought to do,
Then asked the sister for the sick-joint’s
name.
“Why, Digger, Hampstead General,” she
said,
And straightened up the papers on me bed.
Ah, I dunno, the Hand o’ Destiny,
Chance, Kismet, in Life’s bloomin’ two-up
game,
Had flung the browns and given the chance to
me
To swing the lead, or give the kid a name.
And then I chats the sister to the part
Of fetchin’ Anne as my square-dinkum tart.
She came next afternoon. Me sight went dim
-o see the hard, proud look in those grey
eyes,
Till all upon a sudden she says “Jim,”
And crumples up beside the bed and cries.
I feels around and grabs her by the hand.
And hears .her whisper, “Say you under-
stand.
“I thought you’d chucked me wfien I never
heard,”
She raised her tear-dimmed eyes and looked
me fair,
And then to other hopes I gives the bird.
“Dear heart,” I says, “you know I’ll treat
you square.
We’ll get hitched up as soon as I am well.”
I smiled all right; but, Christ, I went
through hell!
By March her friends were slingin’ off at
Anne,
But April found us spliced as man and wife ;
And then came May, and hell for her began,
Then almost Death, and then another Life.
They called me in when all the work was
done
To show me Anne, and, in her arms, me son !
I dunno what it was that kept me back
From writin’ Norah all about it then;
This gift o’ writin’ is a thing I lack—
Me brain stops dead when I’m behind a pen.
And we was homeward bound for Sydney
town
Before I thought of her that I’d turned
down.
We’ve passed the doctor. Listen to the
chain
Come clankin’ home; the leads swing into
line;
The screws throb out their churnin’, mad
refrain.
September! Ain't the harbor looking fine!
There’s Bradley’s Head —and there is Pinch-
gut Fort;
And Sydney Cove is further round to port!
Can it be only four short years ago
I bid good-bye to Norah and she said
“I’ll wait for you—ah, Jim, I loves you
so”!
The engines stop. I looks, and hangs me
head,
For there is Norah. wavin' on the Quay,
Whilst Anne and Baby Jim are here with
me!
N.s,w.
STANLEY O. BATT.
The North Wind.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ON the further shore of the stream,
Uruguay crouched restlessly under
the heat. Flies, voracious, persis-
tent and reckless in their courage, buzzed in
Waring’s tent in a mocking cloud round his
head, his lunch and his broken heart. He
leaned back, sighing; nothing in the world
could be more damnable than this —nothing
could so nearly approach the fables of Hell.
A north wind was growling, a bitter,
malarial, withered breath blown over the
skeletons, the dried swamps and all the
stricken evils of the campo; a visitation of
God to keep those few that were sober and
at work from self-sufficiency. Waring was
at work and sober, and* he was very sorry
for himself. Only a fool would run a rail-
way beside this stinking river; and only a
damned fool would try to make a survey with
The Wind blowing.
Malarial depression came closer, and sat
down beside Waring in the stifling tent.
Three peones out of 18 were playing ombre
in the cook’s shelter, apparently (from the
noise) with their knives handy on the
packing-case beside the cards. The rest had
gone into Lamon, without comment or per-
mission ; and, with a few very perfunctory
words, Stevens and Challis the chainman
had followed, with acquired Spanish ges-
tures of manana and resignation to The
Wind. No one would be back until mid-
night *or after; some of the peones would
not come back at all; and Challis and
Stevens would be quite unfit for even the
bickering social amenities of a “Preliminary”
camp.
Waring sighed again, and stood up. The
flies rose with him and stayed round his
head till he walked into The Wind, which
blew them shrieking away—the bitter wind
of suicide statistics, of wild inexplicable
“drunks” for the loco ingles, of crime and
utter hopelessness. Waring knew it well
and feared it, as all South American exiles.
There was one blowing when Buenos Aires
first burned his feet padding up and down
in search of a job. It blew all the spring of
adventure out of his heart, all the rioting
color out of the town, all the meaning out
of the world. The pampas stretched behind
the suburbs in menace; each contractor that
Waring saw watched him and listened to his
tale in a cold menace of negation; the tram-
conductors and waiters, the beggars and the
boys in the street were enemies, strong
enemies who could starve him. There was
no hope, no sign of hope. But in the night
The Wind dropped; a pleasant, smiling city
opened its arms to Waring on the morrow,
expressed its inexpressible Spanish joy in his
arrival, and gave him a decent job before
lunch. .He found a fresh and colorful town,
happy in youth and bright endeavor, and
charmed to make his acquaintance as a
helper in the endeavor. But he remembered
The Wind and the bleak tomb that had
shut him out that first day. Whenever The
Wind came again, he mustered what patience
he could for his traffic with his subordinates
and his fellow-men, until the foul, primeval
breath got him, too. in the end, and broke
his heart. He sat back under it, in these
later days, and gave it best; nothing could
be done until the rising, fitful growls
ceased, . and the world got clean again.
Down in B.A. a man could curse his fill
and go to the club on a gentle boozy day,
finishing in merciful oblivion or a Turkish
bath: but in the campo or on the railway
expedition no work can be left for clubs or
Turkish baths—you sleep and work only,
for three or four months, until you finish
the job. You go back then to B.A. and its
sweetness and fleshpots, to spend as rapidly
and foolishly as you can the money you
(Continued on next page.)


DON’T NEGLECT THAT ACHING BACK
BACKACHE IS REALLY KIDNEY ACHE.
Backache is r,eally kidney ache; the ache comes from
the kidneys, which lie just beneath the small of the back.
When the back is weak and lame—when it “cricks” if you
turn sharply or stoop —when it burns with a burning ache
and keeps you awake half the night—when you cannot
bend without a stablike pain taking you —when it makes
hard work of the least task—give your kidneys help at
once in Doan s Backache Kidney Pills. Doan’s Pills are
a Special Kidney and Bladder medicine; they give strength
and tone to the kidneys themselves, and so cure the cause
of backache, gravel, rheumatic pains, watery swellings in
the ankles and beneath the eyes, urinary troubles, dizzy
spells, pains in the limbs, spots before the eyes, sallow
complexion, etc.
“Every Picture
Tells a Story
Two Sydney People Cured to Stay Cured.
on fm l M ff y> Street, Waterloo, Sydney, says:— “Off and
with ti? 3 S \.? u ® ei ' with my kidneys. One symptom was constant trouble
tronhwf ,r re whlc . h fere very painful and unhealthy. Backache also
a lot, the pain being at times very severe. I tried a great many
When r fiL* hope °f b « in 8' cured, but it proved only waste of time.
J)oans Backache Kidney Pills advertised I decided to
backache’ je, very pl . eased tbat 1 did ’ for they drove away the
and made me feel% K.” 6 ™* stl *engthened and toned-up my kidneys
of kidnev^ronn 18 ab "r IMr. May says:—“l am still free of every symptom
me ’ and ml ve been since D °an’s Backache Kidney Pills cured
he without them f g °‘ Jb , e ? e are bne Pißs for the kidneys, and I would not
he without them for anything. They keep me in good health.”
Mrs. A. Moore, 150 George Street, Waterloo, Sydney, says“My
back ached a good deal for some months, and at times I was in such pain
that I had to lie up, as I could not move without enduring torture. I felt
sure my kidneys were the cause of my suffering, as I noticed the secretions
were somewhat disordered and I had occasional dizzy attacks. Hearing
that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were very good for all symptoms of
kidney ills, I bought a bottle to try them. They proved a blessing, a short
course banishing the backache and restoring my kidneys to a healthy state.
I never suffer with these organs now, and feel splendid in every way.”
Four years later Mrs. Moore says“l have had no return of my
old complaint since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me over four
years ago.”
fdh
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from Foster-
McClellan Co., 15 Hamil-
ton Street, Sydney.
have earned. And if on the campo there is
no village or town handy, and a north wind
is blowing out of the mouth of Hell over all
the rotting carcases on earth, you go on
just the same, sun-up to sundown, till the
work is done.
The rows which are the quite friendly
peon conversation seemed to be fulminating
in the cookery into something more serious.
While The Wind is breathing to and fro
over the spent spirit of man, everything is
serious. Waring pulled out what rags of
British personality were left to him, and
walked with ostentatious carelessness
towards the cookery. ,
Two bottles of vino del paiz were
dead; two more stood uncorked and up-
right on the packing-case. Subconsciously,
Waring looked for the bottle of diluting
water, and noticed that it was not there.
This was bad. Vino del paiz was about 30
per cent, at best, and Lamon’s was not the
best. As Waring appeared at the flap a
silence fell for a moment on the group.
Casals, the cook, stood up; Luis Cano and
Manuel Peron remained seated. Casals, a
fat Mendozan, looked rather grey and scared ;
Cano and Peron stared down at their cards
with expressionless faces. The Wind moaned
in and out of the rags and poles of the
cookery, a hot and mocking menace in the
pungent silence.
“What is it, Casals?” Waring said, care-
fully casual in tone.
“I was about ,to call the seiior ,” said
Casals; “I feared there might be bloodshed.
Luis here says that Manuel has cheated. I
am an old player, Senor Waring, and I
know that he has not. But The Wind is
blowing, and the men are not themselves.”
Casal’s gymnastics gave a miraculous im-
pression of reproach and excuse for the
waterless wine, which was the fault of The
Wind. “Speak to the hombres, Senor."
Waring looked from one to the other, still
with an assumption of indifference that he
did not feel ; the peon is a nervous beast to
deal with at the best of times, and this was
the. worst. Quite enough looked like hap-
pening to the camp, with two of the
engineers drunk in Lamon, killing prestige
and disorganising discipline iii camp and out-
side ; and The Wind whispering for a three
days’ blow.
“You have not cheated, Peron, eh?”
.1 have not, Seiior,” Peron said, lifting a
white face to Waring; cold, unstable, black
eyes glared at the engineer-in-charge. The
Wind, unwatered del paiz and the half-breed
temperament are bad mixers. From the eves
and the twitching hands, Waring knew that
he must put his back into fixing this. If
only the whimpering, foetid gusts of wind
would cease!
You hear, Llano? Peron denies it.”
Cano, almost black, of a much lower type
J n . . , confusin g half-breed
grades, smiled viciously, like *a cheated pawn-
broker, and said :
“Thisputa-madre” A white streak shot
n P a to -.£ rons , arm ’ reach - R y the grace of
txod .it hung for a second six inches before
Hanng s face. The second was just long
enough. Haring caught Peron’s wrist before
the descent and nearly broke it in his grip ;
after a moment’s effort, the knife clattered
on the packing-case. Waring released the
peon’s wrist and stepped back a pace; it was
a stiff job to look cool and not to murder
the three fools himself with his bare hands.
Still, puta-madre is the last insult; and The
Wind was murmuring and chattering insanely
round the ties and the flap. Casal’s fat shook
in a palsy of fear; Cano’s black shewed the
grey edge of the nigger’s face in terror; only
Peron the aggressor sat firm, looking at War-
ing more quietly and steadily now, without a
trace of shame or even inequality in his man-
ner. The man was dangerous; Waring took
the bold course.
“Stand up, Peron,” he said sharply, with
the unquestioned authority of years of expe-
ditions in his voice. Unconsciously Peron
stood up. “Pick up that knife.” Peron did so,
slower in his obedience this time. “Now put it
in your belt.” The peon’s knuckles whitened
in their grasp on the hilt, but he made no
movement to put up the knife. He looked
up at Waring in silence; his face was still
white, but his hands no longer twitched ; all
his spirit was calm and steady, confronting
Waring on equal terms.
“Make him take back the ‘whore-mother,.’
Sefior,” he said coldly at last. Waring felt
The Wind drop for a moment —an interval
of a moment’s cleanliness. It was a fair
request, above all camp authority and manu-
factured rights and degrees.
“Take it back, Cano,” Waring said, coming
down from his judge’s seat into the fight
itself.
The nigger follows the skirts of authority
in a safe place. In Cano’s mind, Waring
was against Peron, temporising a little with
him, perhaps, but certainly at heart against
him. Secure in his screen of authority’s
approval, which had taken away the keen-
ness of his fear, he smiled again, baring the
nigger’s large teeth.
“Why, Senor?” he *said.
Waring drew in his breath sharply; here
was the finish. The Wind rose screaming
in the trees on the river’s hank, unclean and
withering—-withering. Waring felt the im-
minent crime in the garlic-reeking hole, but
his hands and his mind were motionless.
The Wind, the death-born, death-carrying
Wind
“For this reason,” said Peron quietly, as
the knife flashed again, and sank in Cano’s
heart. Waring was too late this time, as he
knew he would be. His head ached insanely
as he watched the fat cook straighten out
the huddled heap on the stretcher, idiotic
tears dropping on the black carcase and its
fatuously surprised face. Peron was look-
ing calmly at Waring, waiting for his judg-
ment, no doubt.
The Wind dropped again as Waring walked
slowly towards his tent. For a moment
his brain cleared to face the thing. It was
a fair go. Cano had his chance of retract-
ing his words and a good warning of his
danger. He had taken neither. Peron for
this half-hour had been justice—the plain
justice of the camp. He, Waring, the con-
stituted justice, had given the thing into the
hands of the plaintiff and defendant when
he had demanded that Cano take back the
“puta-madre.” It was a fair go. He could
fix it in B.A. if it was necessary, and he
could fix Casals; the peones would think
Peron had deserted ; and for Cano, there was
the. river.
“Peron !” he called. :
“/Si, Senor!"
“Go dofrn to the river, take the fishing
boat and get away into Uruguay—and go
with God.”
“ Gracias , Senor; vaya con Dios.”
At the river’s bank, Peron turned, lifted
his hand in farewell and disappeared. As
Waring raised his flap, The Wind fled up
into a savage shriek, pouring all the dust of
pre-liistoric carrion pits into his heart. A
vulture hung for a moment over the camp
and came circling down.
HILARY LOFTING.
Baigona.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE strange way of it is that they
who know most about these Baigona
are the staunchest believers. Govern-
ment officers, traders, miners and mission-
aries all say solemnly, “There’s something
in it.”
’Way up in the nor’-east of Papua the
Baigona have their being. Big men they
be, of lordly—not to say godless—aspect,
with long noses and piercing eyes that see
through most folks’ souls. Their creed is
not the same old dingy, creeping, kill-the-
first-man-you - can - because-someone-threw-a-
stone-on-someone’s-house - or - killed-a-village-
pig of the everyday pourri-pourri practi-
tioner. No, these Baigona are practitioners
in a large way of business.
The first Baigona (spirit) came many
years ago to a man of the Bi-ari who had
strived many days against ghosts and star-
vation, and climbed to the summit of moral
victory. This Baigona cut out the
exnlorer’s entrails and gave them to him
in a basket woven of spiders’ webs. “See.”
he said, “how wise I am. I have done this
without killing or even hurting you. I give
you Baigona, also, to do as you will. And
things that creep such as snakes and croco-
diles shall do your bidding.” It proved
true. All the rest of that practitioner’s
days snakes ran his errands and crocodiles
did his odd jobs.
Baigona has become a cult. Some of it
is sheer strength of personality; some part
is mesmerism, and seventeen herbs come into
its composition. Not every man that desires
to can become of the elect. A certain men-
tal size is required before one can qualify.
A deadly sick woman, apparently suffer-
ing from beri-beri, was once carried into a
Government station. “Dying,” said the
magisterial authority, which thereupon shut
its mouth and lost interest in the case.
“Taubada,” said the magisterial cooky boy.
“One big Baigona man sit down along canoe.
He savee too much this sick. He can look
along sick woman.”
Now pourri-pourri (witchcraft) is an in-
dictable offence in Papua, but this magis-
terial potentate didn’t like natives dying
about the station. That sort of thing gives
the place a bad name. So he said, “Yes,
anything,” and went back and coiled him-
self afresh among the wilderness of his red
tape till the ends of the red tape billowed
out of the door and made a festoon from the
window.
The big Baigona came and squatted on
his haunches beside the sick woman. He
didn’t bring even a porous plaster. With
mesmeric passes he seemed to be drawing
the trouble out from the lady’s feet and
finger-tips, the while he chanted incantations.
He gathered up heaps of the disease and
threw it away. He cast handfuls of sick-
ness away over his shoulder. In the midst
of it a missionary, doing his hundred-mile
or so walkabout, came upon the scene with
his Bible under his arm and a shriek in his
mouth.
“What’s this!” he roared, and behold
it was all Baigona and anathema and cloven
hoofs and horns. The Church-militant
smote the Baigona in its rear with his
blucher and his Bible, and personally con-
ducted it back to the canoe.
“What a pity!” said the Baigona as he
stepped aboard his humble liner. “The God-
man will soon find a big sickness.” Then he
paddled into the sunset.
Next daybreak the quite-recovered woman
walked back to her village. But the Church-
militant found the Big Sick that Baigona had
spoken of. Three weeks was he ill to death
with his Bible fainting under his arm. In
a feeble search for a convenient burial-place
he at last crept down to the same old river-
bank, and there, stepping ashore from his
canoe, was the same old Baigona man. He
strode up to the tottering churchman and
snapped his fingers, and clapped his palms
together; then kept them closed as though he
held something. “See,” he said, “I have
caught the white man’s sickness. I must put
it where it can do no more harm.” After that
remark he disappeared into the scrub as only
a native can. In a minute the missionary
began to get better. Back he walked to the
grass house. “Bring me bread,” he com-
manded, “and bulamacow. I hunger” ; and
it was so, for he ate much cow.
This is another story. One of the best-
known traders in Papua found a particularly
poisonous snake crawling amongst his rice
bags, which wickedness he instinctively slew.
“Taubada,” said one of the store boys.
“No good you bin do this. Snake he be-
long Baigona. Too much trouble close up
it come.”
That same night a terrific storm raged.
The creek and river waters rose and washed
away the store. When daylight came the
trader found most that he owned had be-
come as nothing. So he repented in dust
and ashes. After that he slew no more
snakes, and prosperity gradually returned
to him. Finally, as a sign of special favor,
almost all the snakes in the district came
to his place, and many crocodiles arrived.
And the day when there were most snakes
and crocodiles he came into a great fortune
and retired from business. He left the
country at once, and all the animals came
to see him off.
S. S. SEVERN.


■m
-V
mu
■ ■ :■
, ’;'?f
& U"I
P^E^^9|n
* t^-y-p
&bifaa!‘ jsKSj@£ ;«s;
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
fluaenalantl lonnto uni mcc *
Queenalantl Agents- HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
.7. °'' lce —93-107 Featlrerston Street, Wellington
Vlotorlan Office-99 Queen Street, Melbourne. '
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Rare you
uptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
w AIR, CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafiing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
. WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
; THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
LIVER-ISMS
The liver is the regulator of health. If the
liver is active and well, good health and happi-
ness prevail; but once you allow your liver to
get torpid and sluggish, life be-
comes a misery. Dyspepsia,
Indigestion, Biliousness
Constipation, Headaches,
and Melancholy assail
you, resulting in lackof t
energy, loss of mem-
ory and ill-health ;
but remem be ri
Carter’s Little'
Liver Pill* touch
the liver and cure
all liver ills. Try them to-day and see how
much better you will be to-morrow. They
“ever fail. Children like them.
Small Pill—Small Boso—Small Price.
CARTERS
ITTLt
IVER
PILLS
GENUINE must
bear signature
fd
T
-At-J
Gifts for
Men
at Craig 8 Aitkcn’s,
The old established
Sydney Centre for
Shaving: & Smokers’
Requisites.
Silver- plated Shaving-
Stand, similar to illus-
tration, complete with
Brush. Prices: 23/6,
33/6, 36/-
Post Free.
Shaving Mug and
Brush, Silver-plated,
11/6, 14/6, 22/6.
Post Free.
Illustrated Folder of
Shavers and Smokers’
Requisites Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established 35 years.
hf
This ia a Food-Drink (Milk,
Wheat, and Malt) which should
find a place in every home. It
has incomparable qualities, and
is an ideal standby in the outly-
ing districts .where shops are
distant. It keeps for, years, is
made in a moment, no cooking,
and is always satisfactory.
MALTED MILK
No Shortage. Ample Sui
j
motor Lohrie;
r
y
Ask a Doctor for Family History.
REAL merit of any lorry is best told by
the garage-keeper around the corner.
The Denby lorry seldom frequents
repair shops. If he s frank, he’ll admit that
his loss is your gain.
Load capacities: I, 2,2 J, 3}, 5 tons.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY.
Export Department, Singer Building, New York* U.S.A.
Cable Address: “Dentrux.”
The jVUdicine for Ton
must possess certain advantages without which it would hardly commend
itself to your confidence, it must be perfectly safe under all circumstances.
It must be mild in its action but none the less efficacious on that account.
It must be, par excellence, a family medicine, that is, suitable for
old and young of both sexes and be freely obtainable in town or
country. It must be easy to take, regular and reliable in its curative
effects and possess a great and genuine record of success. Such a
medicine is Beeeham’s Pills which still hold, and will continue to hold,
the highest position in popular favour. It is very interesting, after so
many years service, still to find Beecham’s Pills “at the top of the
'tree ” among digestive remedies. They arn everywhere acknowledged
to be unrivalled in the treatment of such troubles as biliousness, sick
headache, heartburn, constipation, giddiness, failing appetite, poorness
of blood and a general run-down condition. If you are in. any way a
sufferer from digestive ailments take
Beechan’s Pills
BEECHAIVPS PILLS are specially suitable for females o! all ages*
Sold in boxes, labelled price IOJd (36 pills), 1/1J (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 piHs
REMINGTON UMC s**■*•
RIFLE.
A SPLENDID RABBIT RIFLE.
2 2
2 2
SHORT
SHORT
MODEL 24A, .22 Calibre, Solid Breech, Hammerless. Easily taken apart
and assembled, Chambered to fire the Ordinary .Rim-fire .22 Cartridge.
MAGAZINE HOLDS 11 CARTRIDGES, all of which can be fired as
quickly as trigger can be pulled, without lowering Rifle from the shoulder.
Fitted with Safety Lock. Full directions attached to each rifle.
Weight, 4]lb. PRICE £5/10/- net. Postage or Carriage extra.
Obtainable Retail from the following Sydney Firms:
MARCUS CLARK, LTD. J. P. IvNIGMT.
COWLES & DUNN. F. LASSETTER & 00., LTD.
GRACE BROTHERS, LTD. NOCK & KIRBY, LTD.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD. MICK SIMMONS, LTD.
Also from Country Storekeepers.
WHOLESALE ONLY from following Sydney Firms:
ALDERSON'S, LTD. J. P. KNIGHT,
JOHN BROOMFIELD, LTD. NOYES BROTHERS, LTD.
PAUL & GRAY, LTD.
Australian Representative for the Manufacturers:—•
D. D. BRYANT, Box 688 G.P.0., Melbourne.
GENERAL CATALOGUE MAILED FREE ON REQUEST.
Now on sale everywhere?
Messrs. Benders Food Ltd. are able to announce that
supplies of Benger s Food should now be readily obtainable
throughout Australasia.
Should any consumer find difficulty in obtaining
Benger s Food, communications addressed to the Sydney
office will receive prompt attention.
*
s S4 a
is for INFANTS, INVALIDS and the AGED.
fulfil? 11 ] y e . arsr u s® by the Medical Profession, it has
fulfilled every claim made for it.
BENfiFR’S rfPinn OO i U 4-^ ndfull P artioulars Post free from:
BRANCH o®F°i D CE Lm ; q MANCHESTER, England.
And ot Nhw York (U.S.A., * S C L Y a?a NEY ‘
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb' Supply—
J -VilliAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
£1 EORGE HOTEL,
•St. Kiida, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
«
-V-v 1
Si
h
Post Free
( Patented )
*>« f
Fio &
/-
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
The simplicity, lightness and excellence oi the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE .
Thousands in Use.


LEATHER K43[.
: .T
w
MAXIMUM POWER
is assured to power-plant owners who use
Mangrovite Leather or Rawhide Belting. It is
supreme in gripping power, and being strong
and pliable it will stand up to the most
difficult drive.
Tanned by our Special Mangrovite process, it
is the belting par excellence.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowlcl, Managing: Director),
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
a»th ® Bri^ht & Co., Fremantle
S th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
Victoria and Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co.,
Melbourne.
AT THE. TOP OF THE LIST.
Whenever different Chaff cutter Knives have been tried and records of
service kept, .
“An Eagle on a Globe” Chaff cutter Knives
are always at the top of the list.
The special steel used keeps a keen edge longer, cuts quicker
and saves re-sharpening.
Made in all sizes for Buncle, Richmond & Chandler, Bentall
and Cliff & Bunting machines.
Enquiries should be addressed to Desk “A” for prompt
.Mention.
THE EAGLE & GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Makers of Ultra Capital- High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent St., SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe St, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Rd., Kalgoorlie.
Cliff St., Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews,
Brisbane.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Paul & Cray Ltd., Newcastle.
' V V
Building Economy.
If you wish to purchase building materials that
render service in keeping with cost, you should
deal exclusively with us. We make a specialty
of the following lines:—
“I'TBROEIT E” Australian-made Genuine
Asbestos Cement Sheets and Slates.
“FIBBO-C” Cold-water Paint.
“FIBEREIC” Building Board.
“CRBOWOOD” Stains.
“REXILITE” British-made Roll Roofing
and Dampcourse.
“CERTAINTEED” Roll Roofing.
REINFORCED Cement Tubs.
REINFORCING Bars for Concrete, etc.
Write for Price List and Particulars.
JAMES HARD IF. &. COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8156 (6 Lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
- 30 Currie Street, Adelaide.
fdh
EQUIP WITH GOOD SPARKING PLUGS.
Bearing in mind their moderate cost it is a mistake, too, to travel lightly in the matter of a
spare.or two. GET READY NOW. Renew those plugs that are doubtful, and place in the
door pocket as spares a couple of plugs designed for your engine—then you can face the future
and the open road with confidence.
OUR STOCK OF SPARKING PLUGS is one of the finest in Sydney, and when you buy from
us YOU BUY THE VERY BEST.
Just look at this list. Where could you better it either in PRICE, QUALITY or VARIETY?
EBI
FQR FORDS 2/9; Champion "X,” 3/3; Rajah*
5/-; Lodge, 5/6; Twin Fire* 6/9; Apollo
Mica* 6/- each.
FOR RUICKS —: Keflex , 3/6; Champion* 4/6; Twin Fire*
5/9 each.
FOR OVERLANDS - Keflev ' 4/6; Champion* 4/6; Lodge*
5/6; Twin Fire* 6/9 each.
SWANS LIMITED,
FOR CHEVROLET'S Champion, 4/6, Twin Fire, 5/9 ea.
FOR ALL CARS having Metric, or Ix 18 threads—
Reflex, 4/6; Champion Regular, 4/6;
Lodge, 5/6; Twin Fire, 5/9 each.
SPECIAL PLUGS— Two-stroke, 5/6; Lodge Mica,
7/9; Lodge Racing, 10/-; Lodge
Waterproof, 8/9; Rajah, f x 18, 5/-;
Rajah Giant, J x 18, 5/6 each.
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The House for Motor Engineers’ Supplies.
DALGETY’S PUMPING OUTFITS
GIVE BEST SERVICE.
PUMPS.—AII classes in stock for pumping from Wells, Bores, Bivers and Creeks for
House and Stock Supply, Irrigation, etc. Also attachments for converting windmills
to power drive.
ENGINES.—Our Engines are specially reliable, and are in great demand for driving
Pumps, Shearing Machines, Chaffcutters, Circular Saws, etc. We can supply either
“Star” or “Tangye Oil” or Benzine Engines. Also E.R.B. Farm Pump
Engines, with Pumping Jack for converting Mills and jumping from wells, etc.
Illustration Shows Triumph Oil Engine Driving Centrifugal Pump.
DALGETY & CO. LTD., Miller’s Point, Sydney.
Agents for Wolseley Shearing Machines, Gane Milking Machines, etc., etc.
wm
iieim
; SSSi
'it
'—>i_-
5^
N
w
p*
%-
THE
Sheep Shearing'
Machines.
"V;; \i
Do tbe work best
and are most profitable to pastoralists and most satisfactory to shearers —ensuring
the utmost harmony wherever used.
They are made for all sizes of flocks, and embrace every modern improvement are
in fact, and always have been —the definite leaders.
Address your enquiries to the nearest branch,
DAEGETY AND CO., AD S TRAD ASIAN AGEN TS: AI.D BRANCHES.
■***?••
•IUNOCft LOfiKINO HU+
MQ WRENCH NBCUMM
AOJUSTABUC
a^A#»
IMCVCMSC
urt tm«am
ALIOCAMS
THOROUGHLY
PAOTtCTtO
compound m*»i
9RAOUATCD fIOTM
BiO*S O* «»»«•
fdh
fd
’
hfd
hfd
CONSIDER THE ADVANTAGE'S
of being able to obtain instantly without the removal of a single
gear, the ENTIRE RANGE of THREADS and corresponding FEED
CHANGES on your Lathe. We invite inspection of our StocK of
MODERN HIGH-SPEED LATHES
embodying tbis feature. It is essential in these days of
SPEEDING-UP, or where COST OF PRODUCTION MUST
BE TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT.
also—
Milling, Shaping, Drilling, Grinding and Screwing Machines.
PARKE ®. LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St.. Sydney, N.S.W.
The Fly Plague this Summer
will be particularly dangerous, according to the
MINISTER FOR HEALTH.
The most obvious as well as certain Line of Defence is to destroy the larvae and their food in one of the
GUTHRIDGE GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
These may be seen, and all particulars obtained, at the office of G. MOORE, 2nd Floor,
Equitable Building, Sydney; or at the Factory, 10 George Street, Camperdown.
V
(?)
HRIDGE LTD.,
SOLE MANUFACTURERS
AND PATENTEES,
10-12 George Street, Camperdown, SYDNEY.
