

The Spirit of Age and Wisdom
R. G*. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent S'fcl7€3© , t>, Sydney,
—FOK—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. ’ New and Second-hand Plants always available.
ADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY
TERMS
ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION.
NSWMONT de PIETE
" T«I C9T LIMITED.
74 Castlereagh 5t.74. Sydney
CAPITAL 51200.000 ‘Phone Cit,y 5325
firs '/7c/res Jt- 29 King St.. Newcastle, N-S-W- 71517 Vic
40 Adelaide St.Srisbane.Q.l97 A Castlereagh 5tJ59 George St. West, Sydney.
Joseph W Mill, General nan&s/en
f*
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and 1. Co. Etch”
<<
CHROMOL
(Trade Mark)
The Super Driving Belt.
The largest mining anti s.aelt-
ing plants use “Chromol,” because
of its proven superiority over all
other Belting.
Sole Makers:
J. C.Ludowici&Son Ltd.
Pioneer Leather Belting Works,
117 York Street, Sydney
Pioneers and Leaders since 1858.
THE BEST !
m
wm
wmm
hj§
A MlVUpfJl te?
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
MAN SENS
J
l
j
ror INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
_ . .. Tablets nets
One or tnese «... after
most beneficially when taken <iuju> "
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
THE MOST FAMOUS
WALL BOARD
Stronger and better in every way, Amiwud
is taking the place of all other wall materials
such as plaster and wood.
r
r
06
a
I>et ns send yon booklets and samples.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince,
Australasian Manager), Cballis House, Sydney.
A new and revised edition of the
“Referee” is now available,
and will be sent post free on
application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY.
ĵ
j
ĵ
j
the recognised standard
of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
■ HORSE ■
ORME, REIGWIN GSJb CO. LTD.. SYDNEY Sol* Agents
Instead of lath and plaster or wood use
GYPSBOARD
Cover your interior walls and ceilings with a life-time guarantee of durability by using GYPSBOARD MONOLITHIC
PLASTER SHEETS. The Monolithic Solidity of Gypshoard makes your rooms rot-proof, inseot-proof and fire-retarding.
Gypsboard can be sawn and nailed like wood, and takes any paint. Write for Sample and Booklet to the Manufacturers*
NOYES BROS. (Sydney) LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney
- ■
ĵ
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay.
3
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2094.
Thursday, April 1, 1920.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Australian Campaigns in the Great War
A Concise History of the Australian Naval and Military Forces, 1914 to 1918.
By LIEUT. THE HON. STANIFORTII SMITH, 44th Battalion, A.I.F.
Administrator of the Northern Territory.
With a Preface by Professor ERNEST SCOTT, Melbourne.
The Bulletin says: ‘‘lt was well worth while getting l this information together in handy form: and
Stanifdrth Smith’s book will be kept close by when most other war books have been pushed away on the
top shelf.”
Price 8/6, postage 3d. To be had of all booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., Ltd., MELBOURNE.
This Week’s Toilet Hints
A RARE COLLECTION OF BEAUTY HINTS FROM NEAR AND FAR.—
HOME RECIPES.
GETTING RID OF FEMININE
MOUSTACHES.
“Practical Suggestions.”
To women who are annoyed by disfiguring
downy hair growths a method of permanently
eradicating the same will come as a piece of
good news. For this purpose pure powdered
pheminol may' be used. Almost any chemist
should be able to supply an ounce of this
drug. The recommended treatment is de-
signed • not only to remove the disfiguring
growth instantly, leaving no trace, but also
to actually kill the hair roots, without
irritating the skin.'
HOW TO HAVE THICK AND PRETTY
HAIR.
“Home Talents.”
Soaps and artificial shampoos ruin many
beautiful heads of hair. Few people know
that a teaspoonful of good stallax dissolved
in a cup of hot water has a natural affinity
for the hair and makes the most delightful
shampoo imaginable. It’ leaves the hair
brilliant, soft and wavy, cleanses the scalp
completely and greatly stimulates the hair
growth. The only drawback is that stallax
seems rather expensive. It comes to the
chemist only in sealed packages which
retail at four shillings. However as this is
sufficient for twenty-five or thirty shampoos
it really works out very cheaply in the end.
BLACKHEADS, OILY PORES, ETC.
A unique new method instantly removes and
corrects them. '
The new sparkling face-bath treatment
rids the skin of blackheads, oiliness and en-
larged pores almost instantly. It is per-
fectly harmless, pleasant and immediately
effective. All you have to do is to obtain
some tablets of stymol from your chemist,
drop one into a glass of hot water, and
after the resulting effervescence has sub-
sided dab the affected portions of the face
freely with the liquid. When you dry the
face you will find that the blackheads come
off on the towel, the large pores contract
and efface themselves, and the greasiness is
all gone, leaving the skin smooth, soft
and cool. This treatment should be
repeated a few times at intervals of several
days in order to make sure that the result
shall be permanent.
GREY HAIR
A simple, old-fashioned home-made lotion that will
restore the color of youth.
One need not resort to the very question-
able expedient of hair dye in order not to
have grey hair. The grey hair can easily
be changed back to a natural color in a few
days’ time merely by the application of a
?iraple, old-fashioned and perfectly harmless
home-made lotion. ' Procure from your
•hemist two ounces of tamroalite concentrate
md mix it with three ounces of bay rum.
Apply this to the hair a few times with a
small sponge, and you will soon have the
den sure of seeing your grey hair gradually
larkening to the desired shade. The lotion
; s pleasant, not sticky or greasy, and does
not injure the hair in any way. (3
The Indispensable!
In ten years’ time you will wonder
how you ever managed to do
without a
j
roimtamren
ea
Year after year, with undiminishing-
efficiency and zeal, Waterman’s Ideal
speeds and makes pleasant the task of
the writer. Thus it proves the greatest
economy and a permanent source of
satisfaction. Whatever else goes
wrong, you can rely on your Water-
man’s Ideal-the pen with the smooth
nib and the steady, even flow.
Three Types: “Pocket Self-Filling-,”
“Safety,” and “Regular.'’ Of Sta-
tioners and Jewellers everywhere.
_ L. G. SLOAN , Ltd., ■
COTtter London, Eng.
Australia : H. D. Dixon, 105. Clarence St.,
Sydney.
ĵ
||C^-CJ3=»:
j
M
ĵ
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND flc-A-c- nz=> BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from ail the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES:
VICTORIA—CoIIins House. Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES—SB Pitt Street, Sydney - - - Phone City 2677
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street. Brisbane Phone 2382
IfEjTDzg*
C-A-C-
j
f C'A'C' (JZ=>
ĵ
j
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT! LUNGS!
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
AN IDEAL REMEDY.
ON
•mm
•msuuiurn'mim/nm
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza, and the
Prevention of Consumption,
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug,
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says“ Proved to be effective bac-
tericidally as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, E U MENTHOL
JUJUBES do not interfere with the Digestion ; on
the contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as their
antiseptic properties prevent abnormal fermentation
of the food when taken after meals. [5
The Red Page
Singers of the Dust.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One went singing with a mattock and a
spade,
And one went singing with a pen ;
And the long years looked upon the nothing
that they made
Through the dust of the cold, blind men.
(Dreams are dust and the dust-cloud deep
When the winds of the desert are awakened
from their sleep.).
One went singing with a rivulet of ink,
And one went singing with a hoe;
There were rhyming of the lavender and
chiming of the pink
And fine black words in a row.
(Cyrus came and beat upon the gate;
And the desert cried aloud to Babylon, its
mate.)
Two ceased. singing; but the chariot forgot
It had broken ink and blossom with its
wheels;
Through the sighing of the weeds, through
the fading of the blot
Went the world with blood on its heels.
(Dust of the word and ashes of the rose;
How the desert sings of nothing as the dust-
cloud goes.)
One goes singing with a mattock and a pen
And the sun and the rain beat time;
Through the gold dust of dreams, through
the brown dust of men
Shall the word and the blossom find a
rhyme?
(Cyrus comes and beats upon the gate;
But the singer, singing dust, shall have
Paradise for mate.)
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Undergraduate Singers
Melbourne. University Verse (Alexander
McCubbin, Melbourne) is a collection made
from the work of about 20 students, all of
them undergraduates at the time the verses
were written. One of the best things to be
said about the little volume is that it is
not at all what might have been expected.
These are not stiff exercises in scansion and
rhyming, nor ambitious kammerings-out of
well-worn classical themes, but the very
young work of very young men and women
who have their dreams, their ecstasies and
their limitations. The book has the fresh-
ness of youth about it as well as youth’s
immaturity of thought and expression, but
there is a lot of poetry in it, and a good
deal of skill in versemaking; and the whole
volume is full of promise that is occasionally
more than promise.
Here is a poem, “The Beloved Captain,”
by Beatrice which would stand out
distinctly in any modern collection :—•
-Not in the whispering darkness of the night,
Nor when at evening flame the western skies
And in the dim light stir old memories,
Not then may we remember her aright,
Nor see her with a rush of glad surprise,
In empty dreams beneath the silent moon,
But rather, on some sunlit afternoon, »
When on the trampled field the hour flies,
And we, with thought of nothing but the game,
Strive still to turn defeat to victory.
Then may we fed her with us suddenly,
See her pass, fleet as ever, hear a name. -
Called in her voice—some trick of wind and sun,
She is not there: But the lost game is won.
That jf a bad sonnet. It .mixes the Italian
and Shakspearean forms; “memories” is a
poor rhyme for “skies” ; “hour” is used as a
word of two syllables, which it never can be;
the sense is carried on from the octave to
the sestet; the punctuation is so bad as to
almost obscure the meaning. Give all that
in, and what is left over is still a very fine
and true poem. There is a clear picture and
the throb of a real emotion ; there is a deli-
cate Jeeling for the simple best word ; there
is the gathering of force without trick or
artifice for an ending which is false to the
sonnet form but true to its idea.
„ Take another example—“ Waking,” by
Esther M. Levy:—
A world ago,
In woods of Arcady,
I lived a dryad, .in’ a tree,
And you were a faun .who loved me.
Again, a world ago—
Princess, I nought did lack,
A faggot of dreams in your little knapsack,
lon laughed your way through the world and back.
A world ago—
Oh, was it just to-day?
V cupped my hands at the river-brink,
My _slim white hands, that you might drink,
And then you rode away.
That is very charming, chiefly because it is
n Tbf’i f r nio, ' e Jt wou,d faave destroyed
all the delicacy of. suggestion. The stuff of
poetry, however, is certainly there; and
that stuff should be woven into more’ortho-
dox forms for a while until, feeling the
inner meaning and wonder of those forms
toicjf s Uth0 “\v S is an » afford t 0 play such verbal
i.itf " akia £ sings true enough, in
c ilt Ln use . ( ? f af °Ps which makes the diffi-
nhsenrf- m i atlCal construction still more
tots)?; by A&rTriiKt-
' agudi- we thought of war as rugged might,
V combat, and majestic strife,
ConrW a llfe P itted against life,
Courage and Glory, Chivalry and Eight. ’
The^mm * azure fleeked with white that day,
: , distant city faded into mist,
The soft lnB i sparkling,'dewy kiss’t;
r! t } .lidding bathed in sunlight lav.
But not the stir and hush of youth’s gav stream.
Sad gioups were standing, eyes avoiding eves,
their voices murmuring low with half-drawn sighs.
Sa-strident war came Quietly as a dream.
hit nVw n V ei £, hoaest and very convincing
; , . f I lu ' first fine of the last qnat-
somewwi i 1 ad ': anta Sc lia ve had a verb
abo «t it, and the line “And
kris’t” fit* Kl 'tu n S V IOad fflixrkling, dowv-
stoir/Q ■ fi bnt l M tl ° r c c Unnsi,y bito, the middle
„ i t,u> craftsmanship, is sufficiently
and the emotion is real.
tiouA nnA°m 'l hy Boyd Coutts. is more amAi-
uous and less successful, but there is good
fag ‘fto "nil UK- blank verse is well
handled. Melbourne University students are
not phrase-makers to any great extent; and
their work is all the better for it.
•‘faith.” by Thelma Asche, is well worth
quoting, too : —•
I know not how—but yet I strongly know
That fiVevy lovely thought in being so
Shall -never pass, but still shall count for gooa
When this frail body lies in cypress-wood!
I do not know, but yet I cannot doubt
But that the flame will live the candle out—
-4 That faith in man will raise men up so high
Their thoughts must brush the stars as they drift by !
It’s a pity about the “cypress-wood” and the
two awkward “buts” in the last stanza, for
both thought and expression are otherwise
very find.
Some of the work in the little volume is
slight, but none of it is uninteresting, and,
as a whole, it will compare more than favor-
ably with very pretentious anthologies which
have recently appeared. As the first book
of a single writer it would deserve close
attention; and there ought to be many
better things where these came from. The
collection is dedicated “To Professor R. S.
Wallace, on his return from active service”
and if it may be taken as an indication of the
way in which a love of English poetry and
free individual expression are fostered at
Melbourne University, this volume gives a
promise of more than even the joint future
achievements of those represented in its
pages.
A Pioneer in Pioneering
Buried in our musty records ar.e tales long
told and forgotten, yet worth retelling. Under
the title of Exploration Beyond the Upper;
Nepean in 1198 is one such story of early
Australian effort, related by R. H. Cam-
bage,. him Self a master of bushcraft. The
substance of the narrative is in a journal
written in a round, boyish hand on sheets
of foolscap, stitched together with red thread
and still preserved in the Mitchell Library.
The hero of the tale is Wilson, jyho arrived
in Sydney by one of the first prison shjjis, a
rascal who would serve no master, but a
rascal of splendid courage, resource and en-
durance —one of that legion that never was
listed. He came to an end, natural to his
kind, when he was speared to death by a
native tribe from which he had stolen a
woman. Now, Wilson, on being employed
at one of the outlying settlements, had" at
once foregathered with the aborigines. He
learnt the native language; and, still more
important, acquired those arts and crafts of
bushmanship that so few European-born
whites can ever learn. In the company of
his adopted tribe he roamed over areas that
no white had previously crossed. To better
utilise such knowledge and ability it was
ordered by Governor Hunter that Wilson
should make a journey in some definite direc-
tion, and that he should take with hint an
educated lad, Barracks by name, to write
down their observations. They were to de-
pend largely on game for food ; their equip-
ment consisted chiefly of a bag of biscuits
and a gun, with powder and shot. Having
no compass or other instrument of precision,
the direction and distance of each day’s
march was only vaguely guessed. Nor had
Barracks the compensation of skill in survey
or description; at the best he describes in
simple phrase how “the ground runs very
rocky and brushy, so that we could scarce
pass,” or “the timber runs very thick and
short and scarce 10 trees on an acre.”
Starting from the village of Camden, Wil-
son and the youth travelled south, through
country then quite unknown to white men.
They discovered the Picton Lakes and passed
where Mittagong, Berrima and Marulan now
stand. If at a particular point they had pos-
sessed a few handfuls more of biscuits they
could and would have crossed the western
divide near Gbulburn, and so have anticipated
the discoveries to be made by Hamilton
Hume 20 years afterwards. None before
them had gone so far or dared so much.
Here and there some detail of their observa-
tions enable Mr. Cambage to identify the
spots reached by Wilson and Barracks. One
day these explorers “saw another kind of
timber; the leaves are lighter than a powder
blue, the tree is low, much like an apple
tree, the bark much like a mahogany.” Skil-
fully . analysing this botanical evidence, the
historian shows that at this particular date
the travellers had attained the head of
Joadja Creek and had observed there the
Argyle apple, (Eucalyptus cinerea). So by
the leaves of a powder blue the precise posi-
tion of the travellers is determined.
Again, the expedition described a deposit
of salt, which was found on January 25,
1798'. Tracing the route,-step by step, Cam-
bage and his friend and fellow-enthusiast
Carrie, of the Mines Department, went to
look for this bed of salt which had not been
noticed by any later visitor. They redis-
covered it 320 years afterwards—exactly to
the day—at the junction of the Bargo 'and
Nepean rivers.
C. H.
Language, Dialect and Slang
Re the controversy as to whether dialect
can be poetry, whether slang can be poetry,
and about, the difference bettveen slang and
dialect, I would respectfully suggest:—
That anything can be poetry if it tries hard
enough (I do not insist on this point, but 1 think
it is. solid).
That language, dialect and slang are brothel’s,
language being the eldest son who has come into
the property; dialect the second son, who may come
into- the property if the eldest dies; and slang
the youngest, with a doubt about his legitimacy.
The doubt may pass away, and he may come into
the heritage when the other two are dead or
deposed. At the same time, it is a family in
which relationships are mixed, and slang, the son
of language, may be a father in his turn.
There was a time, I imagine, when a man
with striking physical peculiarities might
retire with his wife to a remote, unoccupied,
ownerless valley or plain or forest or peak
or cave, and there set up in business. Ho
might do this because he was proud of his
peculiarities and didn’t want to share them
with common folk, or because he was soured
by them and hated his kind. If his strange
features proved permanently transmissible
and his descendants Were great birth-raters,
he might create a race which might grow to
be a nation.
Similarly the man with a new snuffle, or a
new impediment in his speech, or a new
turn of thought or humor might go away
with his wife and develop a language, or
(Continued on page 24.)


a,
vee
STYLE
WITH ECONOMY AT
Anthony Hordern s’
i
*23
JX42B. —A particularly
stylish Coat, cut on
long lines from Nigger-
shaded all-wool Velour
Cloth, has large collar
and turn-back cuff s,
finished with inset poc-
kets .. .... £7/19/6
Efe
4
-aV
Ah
XQ.
'J
is
F.X.1825.
FXIB2B. Smart little Frock
of Velveteen, with box-pleated
front, off-set with all-round
belt and buttons, the yoke and
collar embellished with hand
embroidery, turned-back cuffs;
in shades of Navy, Saxe, or
Brown.
Sizes 33, 36, 39 in 52/£
Anthony Horderns*, ever to the
fore with the newest styles, offer
ladies who wish to dress fashionably
yet economically a Grand Selection
of Autumn and Winter Wear that
they can choose from with confi-
dence. The values cannot be
duplicated elsewhere.
ft-i
2£
I*
i;
SfiS
5* *m™
Wk k>\\ .| 1,1 \\e
►r- it)
ft
i
s
&4Z7
nxsro
D 403
D 403. A Modish Gown, fashioned from rich Navy Gabardine.
The entire front is adorned with alternate rows of rich Beaver
Fur and Cable Stitching, whilst a wide box-pleated panel falls
from back. The separate vest foundation is of Mole-shaded
Cloth, featuring new high neck, Beaver trimmed. The
abbreviated sleeves are slashed and lined with Mole. A tiny
girdle of self catches in front with fancy button .. 14 gns.
D 427 is anothe riel! model Gown, in Navy Serge. A
narrow foundation is enveloped by a handsome panelled
overdress. A wide sash of Navy Taffeta caught at
sides falls to the fringed-flnished hem £l5/10/-
D 1570. A beautiful Gown fashioned from coral-tinted
Jersey Cloth. The semi-fitting overdress is adorned with
black 3ilken fringe. The fancy collar is of black satin
de Soie, while the sleeves have smart cuffs lined with
the satin de Soie. The corsage is lined with white
silk 19 gns.
JX1759. This smart Coat, fashioned from a deep saxe-
shaded heavy all-wool cloth, has a collar and stole of
black sealette. Side empiecements, cable stitching:, and
a narrow all-round belt finish effectively. May also
be had in Bottle, Mole, Navy or Purple .... £4/18/6
JX7BS. This handsome Coat features a large shoulder
collar and revers decorated strappings and self-colored
buttons. Obtainable in shades of Pawn and Saxe
Blue £5/17/6
/\NTHONY ffORDERNcSONSg
BRICKFIELD HILL SYDNEY
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn and
Winter Fashion Book illustrates
many of the prevailing modes. Let
us have your name and address—
a copy will be sent to you postage
paid. We pay carriage on all
articles of wear in N.S.W.; to
nearest port in other States.
o
/.?
effectively 'set off’
being made
anatomically-correct lir
ft
Q
<ZX/759
'jxrss
2
1 If j
jxr/oi
JX1761. This nicely-
fashioned Coat, i n
soft all-wool Velours,
has novel side empiece-
ments and large cape
collar of Black Coney.
Cable stitching and
large fancy buttons en-
hance. In smart shades
of Champagne and Bright
Saxe 17 gns.
j
F.X.1643
FX1843. —Pretty Frock, in
Trieotine, with pleated skirt and
quaintly-designed belt and col-
lar. Embroidery and fancy but-
tonholing add charm; in shades
of Rose, Saxe or Navy. Sizes
24, 27 and 30 in., 25/6; 33
and .36 in 27/6


ĵ
One
Quality only
the Best
It Costs Least per Mile
because, while its price is only
a LITTLE higher than that of
other makes, its mileage-
average is so MUCH greater.
By comparison-test, you can
soon prove the unique money-
saving power of the
Michelin
Universal Tread
Furthermore, you will experi-
ence the satisfaction of running
a REAL non-skid—a tried and
proved effective in regard to
greats. safety.
If your dealer does not stock
Michelin Universals, he can—
and will—obtain them for you.
Ample stocks available in all
popular sizes.


j
For Your Liver
Pinkettes, the new laxative,
give excellent results in cases of bil-
iousness and torpid liver. People
who are unnaturally drowsy and
sleepy, who lack ambition and
energy, are usually victims of their
liver.
Pinkettes have a specific action
on the liver and speedily banish the
feeling of lassitude and weariness.
They are effective without being
drastic and they have none of the
bad effects of strong purgatives.
Pi rkettes also regulate the stomach
and liver, correct bad breath, clear
the complexion, and are an ex-
cellent remedy to use during colds
and fevers.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.”
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Where to Stay when Visiting Sydney
Cronulla Beach Hotel.
Direction Cronulla Hotel, Ltd.
Healthy, Invigorating SURFING Resort.
Tel., Kogarah 19. Week-ends a Specialty.
J. A. GRANT, Manager.
Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-lIOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (In-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Book notv for Winter months.
Tariff from 15/- per day, or from
3guineas per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY.
*tA Ut s
GOUT
AND RHEUMATIC PILLS
The Famous Medicine that relieves
RI lIMATISM, GJUT, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA,
Tbe Great Discovery of tbs Age.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. English price, 1/3 and 3/-.
Prout & Co., 229, Strand, London.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England.
CELEBRATED
r <m
m
The Rapid Cure lor Corn
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and verms'—hard or soft, and
that remedy Is A’CORN SILK, which
removes the worst corn in a few days, and the
sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure- —it kills them. It is a painless cure—
you don’t feel them groins;. It is a speedy cure
-—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess'
Sold in packets, Gd. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—
& Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley. Worando Buildings, Adelaide,
K. W. Bradley, Fitzroy Bui dings, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Drugrists’ Sundries Ltd., Aberdeen House,
204 Clarence Street. Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart.
r. H. Maxwell & Co., 18 Howard Street,
Perth, W. A. f 1
BRODONAL,
THE GREAT FRENCH REMEDY FOR
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, GRAVEL, CALCULI,
OBESITY, ACIDITY, ARTERIO-SCLEROSIS.
m
URODONAL
.dissolves URIC
ACID as easily
as warm water
dissolves sugar.
Recommended by
PROFESSOR LANCEREAUX,
late President of the Academy of
Medicine, Paris.
Prepared by
Etablissements Chatelain,
Paris.
Price per bottle, 10/9
From all
Chemists and
Druggists
throughout
Australia.
riooklet containing; Medical Opinions
can bo obtained from their Aus-
tralian Agency, 352 Kent Street,
Sydney.
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS-
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
The NEW EDISON
gives the human tone
uwinm'Wi
Many other talking-machines must be written
down as failures, because in reproducing voice
or music they lose the lifelike tones of the
original and produce sounds that are harsh
and metallic.
But when the NEW EDISON was> invented, all
was changed, for this marvellous instrument
re-creates absolutely—with all thie naturalness
and purity of the original.
You can have a demonstration of this unique
invention at the nearest Edison dealer, or an
illustrated catalog will be supplied on request
post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Australian Slate Flaggin
From MINTARO, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
Is and was always FIRST for SIZE AND QUALITY.
Exhibits of Stone sent to the International Exhibition in London, Sydney,
Melbourne and Adelaide WON FIRST HONORS against the world. First-
class for Bread, Cheese and Butter Factories: Electricians and Billiard
Table Makers; for Wine Vats, Lavatories', Urinals, Street Flagging- and
all Building purposes. '
Unrivalled for Acid Resisting and Salting Tanks.
Can be procured in any quantity, thickness or size. Sizes at the Quarries
up to 100 feet by 20 feet by 0 inches. Write for particulars and prices.
THE MANAGER,
Mintaro Slate & Flagstona Co.,
Ltd.,
Sturt Street, South Melbourne.
THE MANAGER,
Mintaro, South Australia,
QUARRIES & HEAD WORKS.
DAVID J. GORDON, Secretary, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Wanted to Buy.
OLD SILVER and GOLD. We wish to BUY any
quantities of Silver and Gold for melting
purposes.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, Ltd., 23 Hunter St., Sydney.
Misttinir Frien«U.
BIG Brother B . Please cable me at
once. Am not well and need you.
ALMA, 1035 Maple Avenue, Evanston,
Illinois, U.S.A.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Silence.
When I see Grecian marbles of those days
When sculptors wrought beyond mere
human skill
Harmonious curve and line, words good
or ill
Were feeble tribute—silence is my praise.
When I hear all the music of some phrase
That Shakspeare wrought of human words
to fill
With thought transcending merely human
will,
Silence alone can measure my amaze.
When in the quiet evening hours we sit,
Hand clasped in hand, while dusky
shadows come
Deepening to rubies lurid glowing coals,
No want of lync words and pnrases nt
To hymn your beauty, Dear, keeps my
lips dumb.
Melodious silence is the speech of souls!
TASMANIA.
H. W. STEWART.
The Little Things.
Still must I seek to win you, dear,
Though ail things end so soon,
As seeks the hapless, moon-white moth
To woo the moth-white moon.
’Tis not alone your beauty’s lure
That tempts my thoughts astray;
Beauties enough are willing still
To glad the trivial day.
It is not that your bright wit makes
My hopes aspiring fly ;
Bright wits a-many strive to snare
My will, but what care I!
No; it’s the little somethings that
No passers-by perceive,
The slight, tremendous somethings love
Itself dares scarce believe.
Item: a little twist awry
In your most perfect lips,
The little fault that mads a man
From toes to fingertips.
Item: a tiny mole that sighs,
Cuddled against your ear,
A tiny mole that mocks. .. .Begone!. .. .
lloio dare you!... .G 0 !... .Come here!
Item: two little feet that are
Demure, perverse and sweet,
Two little feet invincible,
Two terrible little feet!
Item : a smile that never yet
Was quite the same smile twdee —
Now fond, now coy, now shy, now bold,
Now lava (ah!), now ice.
Item : the shoulder of the left
That on a night I kissed.
(When Pain comes pleading in such guise
How can a man resist?)
Item: a little heart (la, la!),
A little heart that’s sly
And deep, a naughty little heart,
All elfin witchery.
An arid little heart, and yet
A heart of mercies rare;
And then a heart to teach a man
That Hell is everywhere.
A woman’s heart, that miracle
Of sober sense gone wrong;
A heart that is the sting of death
And all the soul of song.
Item: the droll, provocative
Wee devil that is You,
The imp that prods me on to deeds
That mock what I would do.
'Tis not. i’ faith, your beauty’s lure
That leads my dreams astray ;
It is the flaws that make you fine,
The tears that keep you gay.
So must I stay and worship, dear,
Though Death is coming soon.
To bear me down the moon-white way
Out past the moth-white moon.
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
The Moon Cradle.
The moon looked through the window
The night that I was born;
A great white rose her glory seemed
That held for me a thorn-;
Her rays made stairway for the dreams
The night that I was born.
And something whispered to me then,
The story of the moon,
How it is curtained by the dawn,
And ribbed with afternoon,
To make a cradle in the sky
Where many dream-babes croon.
The red, young moon that cradle is,
Curved that the babes may lie
And see the marches of the stars
And hear their lullaby.
On Easter morn (’twas told to me)
It rocks within the sky.
The winds of earth blow cool to It,
The angels keep it warm;
The Rainbow loops with ribbons all
The threatening of the storm,
That God may know its nursery wall
Is blue and uniform.
Those who are born on moonlit nights
On moonlit nisrhts shall die—
These are the grim prophetic words
Of men more wise than I.
What do I care if T can hud
That cradle in the sky?
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


To Those Visiting the ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SHOW
WHO ARE INTERESTED IN MACHINERY.
Be sure and call upon Stand No. 45, where you will have the opportunity of inspecting three of the latest Machines
introduced into the Machine Tool world by Alfred Herbert Ltd., of Coventry, England, the largest Manufacturers of Machine
Tools of Great Britain and Europe, with probably the largest organisation dealing with Machine Tools of the World.
On exhibition will be the Alfred Herbert No. 16 Vertical Milling Machine—without doubt the finest Machine of its
class yet produced. Also there will be the Alfred Herbert Four-Spindle Ball-bearing Drill, and the Alfred Herbert No. 1 Hexagon
Turret Lathe, for Bar Work.
In addition to which we have running under belt in our Showrooms, a big-production Machine for nearly every operation,
whether it be in the Factory, the general Engineering Works, or the Repair Shop.
We also carry a comprehensive stock of the most generally used small tools and requisites. In Grinding Wheels we
have the largest selection in Australasia—all grits and sizes.
All inquiries receive expert technical advice. Your inquiries are solicited.
CHAS E. YOUNG
Sole Agent for
ALFRED HERBERT LTD.,
Machine Tool Makers and Importers, Coventry, England
Telephones: City 10109, 10110.
Telegraphic and Cable Address: "Lathe,” Sydney.
Codes Used: Union, Western Union and Private.
57 GEORGE STREET NORTH, CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
uss
Safe and
Sensible
Security
with Comfort
DEJf\ ER’S ELASTIC TRUSS is tlie safe and sensible safeguard for
Ruptured persons to adopt. It offers absolute security, supporting the
ruptured part gently and efficiently without the slightest element of dis-
comfort. If you are Ruptured get a DENYER’S ELASTIC TRUSS and
save yourself worry and expense.
PRICES:
Single . . 22/6
Double . 32/6
Send for our free Truss
Pamphlet.
DENYER BROS.
Specialists in
Surgical Appliances,
281 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
OYoY'OY'c'y^y^
OJNC^
» v <J
:r~-\
G§SJSEKSTe?77
*•<=>
WHERE. QUALITY COUNTS.
In the nations ’ best homes —everywhere where
quality is demanded—you will find
“REX” Luncheon Cheese.
Its distinctively piquant flavor appeals to the
connoisseur. Its delicious creaminess makes it
a universal favorite for sandwiches.
“Rex” Cheese though first in
quality—is most economical.
Be sure you gel “REX” in
the 5-oz. tins. Avoid imi-
tations containing only 4-ozs.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.,
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products.
Curers of “ Rex ” Hams and Bacon.
.1 1188
m
gKrw
iSm
m/i
n
«y
GOODRICH
Safety Tread
TYRES
■
Quality first is ever the upper-
most thought in the production
of Goodrich Tyres, and gov-
erns every step of procedure,
from the purchase of the raw
materials to the final inspec-
tion.
The result is tyres of such
super-excellence that they
serve better, last longer and
give much greater satisfaction
than those made to sell on
price.
Goodrich Tyres are
Practical Tyres, Big
Mileage Producers and
“Best in the long run.”
u
ii,
Let Your Next Tyre
be a GOODRICH.
DUVAL CO
13 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
124 RUSSELL STREET,
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE STREET,
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 41.—N0. 2094.
TU U USD AY. APRT L 1. 1920.
l‘K/CE dO.
EASTER EGGS.
“What but a vile brood can come from this vile bird?”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
lor £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £ l 10s. per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper arc copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read anti, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions arc observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
tending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction,- or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus: and W. Da 'son and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.);
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.Jji.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; International House,
M Kerk Street, Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 11l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.: Boston Hat Works, 101 IA Eighth
Avenue i Vest. Calgary. Canada.
U.S.A. —Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; Western News and Publishing
Co., 10 Third Street. San Francisco. Cal., U.S.A.;
J. Roland Kay Co., 1819 Conway Buildings, Chicago,
U.S.A.; Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington,
U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth Avenue and 27th Street,
New York; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicano; Golden Gate News Agency,
711) Market Street, Chicago; Geqrge Hussey. Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Bailtie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai, Kulamadau and
PoH Moresby.
Fiji. —. 4. Barker, Suva; F. Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands. 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Ud.; Bioz. to 10oz..
3d,; lOoz. to 1203.. Sid.; elsewhere, loz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 1920.
A DREAM AND THE AWAKENING.
Some events occurred last week which may
have a powerful bearing on the destiny of
Australia: —•
(1) The U.S.A. refused to have anything to do with
the League of Nations. Britain, France and the rest
may pledge themselves to defend the U.S.A. and each
other if wantonly attacked by a predatory power;
but the U.S.A. will take no responsibility of the
sort. Another Germany may arise, and go mad, and
tear President Wilson's 14 points to pieces, and
throw mud upon Senator Lodge's seven concrete
terms, and utterly defy the Covenant of the League.
Congress reserves to the U.S.A. the right to go on
trading with such a nation—presumably to even
sell its munitions for use against those countries
which adopted the idea of an imminent millennium
from President Wilson. Of course the U.S.A. may
interfere in such a case. But only after profound
reflection has satisfied Congress that interference is
for the best —from the U.S.A. standpoint. It will
enter the International business as a partner when
a 15 per cent, dividend is 1 reasonably certain.
(2) The U.S.A. decided to build 18 new capital shins
“with the object of beating British sea-power.” The
chairman of the Naval Committee of the Lower
Chamber estimates that by 1924 the gun-power of
the U.S.A. and the British fleets will be equal. BT-om
then onward, unless Britain makes a strenuous effort,
the Republic should lead on the sea.
(3) The Canadian Government decided by an over-
whelming majority to refuse to accept Lord
Jellicoe’s plans for a Canadian navy. It is offering
the existing warships for sale, and is closing the
JTpquimalt and Halifax naval bases. The offer of
ships from Britain has been refused.
* * * *
There are several reasons why Canada is
in a position to adopt that policy. Many
Canadians are so like citizens of the United
States that it is impossible to tell them
apart. During the last 10 years over
100,000 immigrants from the U.vS.A. have
poured into Canada annually. In the year
1909-10 103,798 arrived, as against 41,141
English and Welsh. Most of the French-
Cauadians, numbering nearly a third of the
population, are sympathetic to the States in
proportion as they disl.ke England. United
States citizens claim that relations between
themselves and the Canadians are so happy
that there is no need for a solitary soldier
on the frontier between the two countries.
But there is a closer tie than either blood
or sentiment. The war and the Panama
Canal have between them made the Pacific
the ocean of the world. The king position
in the Pacific is held by Japan. The
Japanese are spending £30,000,000 on their
navy this year, and that is 20 per cent, more
than they have spent during any previous
year. With the object of putting their fleet
on an equality with the best available for
service against them, they are spending an
additional £100,000,000 in the course of an
unspecified period. Japan is not going to
such ruinous lengths without an object in
view, and neither is the U.S.A. The senti-
ment of the latter is, roughly, that the great
little brown men need a lesson; and the senti-
ment of the Japs is that they will not take
a lesson from anyone. Canada no more de-
sires an unlimited influx of Japanese than its
neighbor does; and rather than submit, it
would probably both pay and fight. But its
geographical situation relieves it of the neces-
sity. Other considerations apart, the U.S.A.
can no more have Japan in charge of Van-
couver than of San Francisco. All that the
great Northern Dominion need do, so long
as the Monroe doctrine exists, is to sit back
and leave the dirty work to its powerful
neighbor. It may not be a particularly high-
spirited policy; but on the economic side it
is beyond criticism.
* * # »
Suppose, as it is reasonable to do, that
Japan, looking eastwards from Yokohama,
found the gigantic U.S.A. fleet too formid-
able. In that case, it would abandon its
penetrative ambitions both in the U.S.A.
and in Canada. But a costly weapon always
calls for use. The Japanese Government is
understood to be friendly to Australia now.
Japanese public opinion might not allow it to
be, though, once the ambitions of the expan-
sionists, checked in the East, began to turn
to the South. In that event the Common-
wealth need not look to the U.S.A. for help.
Our overthrow, far from menacing America,
would act as a sort of insurance on its
safety. Japan would be preoccupied for a
century or more with the digestion of such
a country as this. It may be said that
Japan has not rejected the League of
Nations in the forthright manner that
the U.S.A. has. But why should the worker
be bound by arbitration if the employer
spurns it? Why should the Japanese follow
Wilson when the U.S.A. is following
Lodge? What illogical impertinence it is
for the U.S. Senators to attempt to dictate
to the Japanese in respect of the Shantung
Peninsula while the same legislators decline
to hear of any modification of the Monroe
Doctrine! Whatever happens in Europe it
is plain that in this hemisphere the League
of Nations has about as much hope as a
politician who relies on his piety alone to
win an election.
* * * *
It is in such circumstances that certain
members of the Australian Parliament are
talking of imitating Canada “on the ground
of economy.” Of course the additional
battleships and cruisers demanded by the
Jellicoe scheme will mean money and a
lot of it. But this country has no big
neighbor to “pole” on; and, anyhow, it is
under moral as well as financial obligations
to Britain. The probable alternative is
what happened to Belgium six years ago;
what happened to Korea after the Treaty of
Shimonoseki; to Ireland after the Anglo-
Norman invasion—what happens ultimately
to every undefended country in every age.
Granted that Jellicoe is right as to the
superiority of the capital ship over every
engine of attack brought against it (and if
the experts of the three greatest navies in
the world know their business, he is), then
the upholders of a feeble Commonwealth
fleet are so many advocates of an Asiatic
standard of living for white Australian
workers. If the League of Nations had
come to life as a practical policy, their
arguments would have been unassailable.
As it hasn’t, it looks as though naval re-
trenchment must follow the .League to the
tomb, so far as the Commonwealth is con-
cerned, unless nationalism is ultimately to
be interred there as well.
AN AGE OF PROFLIGATES.
The State election in N. S. Wales was, more
than ever before, a race of parties to decide
which would promise the most impossibilities,
and it was quite a logical consequence that
the most impossible crowd got the most
votes. When there were no people to vote
for except those who undertook to hand down
the moon to the electors immediately after
polling-day, it was just as well to support
the men who guaranteed the biggest and most
brilliantly blue moon. The poll was a very
small one, despite the advent of new parties
and the excitement aroused in consequence—
rather less than the record of 1917, when
there were 170,000 fewer electors, and this
despite the fact that in 1917 the vote wasn’t
counted in eight out of the 90 electorates
because there was no contest. Possibly
the explanation was that a large section of
the people has grown tired of voting for the
old, painted, sawdusty clowns who tell the
old quips and jokes and tell them worse
every time. Something like 400,000 voters
expressed their disgust at the three big mobs
and the various little ones by refus'ng to
help any of them. They expressed equal
disgust at them all, and as the parties were
unanimous over one thing only, their rotten
loan finance, it is possible that among the
400.000 absentees there are the makings of a
solvency and honesty party- if it could only
find expression. At present no big daily
paper has taken up the cause. They all issue
ponderous warnings against too much bor-
rowing, but not one has the courage to say
what is too much. In this respect they are
l‘ke the political leaders wh,o fulnrnate
unanimously against excessive loan-monver-
ing, yet don’t say whether they would draw
the line at lialf-a-million a year or 50 mil-
lions. They are a curious lot, these bar-
nacles who call themselves party leaders.
Several of them have no hope of attaining
to office in a thousand years by runn.ng at
the tail end of the loan-and-cadge procession
—no more hope than the corporal at the tail-
end of Xerxes’ army had of becoming com-
mander-in-chief. Several of them have no
hope of even gaining a seat. Yet they lack
the originality to make a bid —even a gam-
bling bid —for the votes of the 400,000 who
decline for some reason or other to vote the
stereotyped loan-ticket. Even the Socialists
don’t attempt it; yet there is no more prac-
tical socialism than the ownership of rail-
ways, telegraphs, waterworks, ships and
other things by the people. At present there
isn’t even a spike in Australia’s poorest rail-
way that belongs to the people. Every-
thing is owned by the Preference Share-
holder —the rich Private Enterprise capi-
talist, and often a foreign one at that —who
provided the money on his own terms and is
perpetually raising the rate of interest.
As for the new men who might bring
new ideas into the game, they are more
and more disqualified. Under the existing
system no one is eligible for office unless
he is the kind of man who loves to stand
on a deal-box at a windy corner on a wet
night and orate to an audience consisting
largely of one scoffer and a dog of doubtf
ped.gree. Only people with a turn for street-
preaching or the vending of patent medicines
take kindly to that sort of business. So it
comes to pass that, if the party which
scored the biggest vote is called on to form
a Cabinet, its choice of an Attorney-General
—the great personage who becomes the offi-
cial head of the barristerial profession, and
who has the arduous job of keeping the
Government out of expensive pitfalls—is
apparently limited to one man, and by no
means a celebrated man either. Out of the
multitudinous legal profession, which
includes brilliant men of all shades of poli-
tics, only that one lone specimen of his
party cared to face, or faced with success,
the wet, windy street corner and the scoffer
and the dog. If Judges were created in the
same way as Attorne.vs-General thev would
mostly be recruited from the police-court
branch of the profession and be largely
elected by grateful clients whom they had
got off in the face of heavy odds, if the
Premier were elected for a fixed term by a
vote of the whole people, and he had the
appointment of Ministers with the whole
community to choose from, things might pos-
sibly be different They ..certainly couldn’t
be worse.
* * # *
Whatever Ministry the Ma State evolves
out of its new material it will be one par-
ticular kind of Ministry to a certainty, its
assured characteristic will be that the day.
the loan boom stops it will be left without
policy, hope, brains or reputation, and will
have no vestige of political clothing with
which to cover its political nakedness. It
will be only qualified for the old-age pension
or the Home for the Mentally Destitute, All
the policies are vast-spending policies based
on the assumption that the Private Enter-
prise usurer over whom we have no control
will go on for ever depreciating his own
security by making new advances on it, and
will prop up his old loans indefinitely by
renewing a p.n. which shows no sign of
ever being, paid. lie has given no assurance
that he will be either willing or able to do
this sort of thing indefinitely, yet fully 80
per cent, of Holman’s policy and 95 per
cent, of Storey’s depends on it. If there
was one party in the House, even a party
of 10 corresponding with the 10 sane men
who weren’t found in bankrupt Sodom, with
a plan which didn’t depend solely on for-
bearance of Isaacstein in London—lo men,
or perhaps as few as five, with a clear-cut
scheme for carrying the State along on its
own allegedly unparalleled natural resources
—they might not have much immediate show
of office, though they would have a better
prospect than some of the fag-end factions
that are already in the House and some that
are out of it. But they would be the men
to hold the future in their hands when
the bubble burst and the old gang had no
idea save to sit in sackcloth and ashes and
say with tears that the game was up. At
present the Holman party thinks it can get
along if Private Enterprise lends it about
£10.000,000 or £12,000,000 a year, and the
Storey partv thinks it can struggle through
with about twice that amount. And mean-
time the British Government has sent a
peremptory demand—the first of its kind but
not the last—that Australia should pay
nearly £9,000.000 in gold on account of its
vast floating debt, and Treasurer Watt has
fled to London to beg for time. Not only
has it been necessary to put the brake on
the note issue. Australian paper being worth
only about 14s. in the £ in the world’s
markets, wherefore the cost of living has gone
up almost out of sight—rot only that, but
the weary job of redeeming about £22.000 000
of forced currency (the wonderful £l9OO
notes') has to be entered on; and there are
commitments ahead winch have already
swallowed up the next bi<>- Federal loan in
advance. If these are not circumstances
sufficient to pull the Political profligates of
Australia back on their haunches, it seems
impossible to imagine any that would be.
RUSSIA TAKES ITS COAT OFF.
M. Lenin", in addressing the Cornell at Moscow,
dee’ared that the workmen’s councils were respon-
sible for the bad state of industry. The only hope
of salvation was to abolish the councils and p’ace
the administrative duties in the hands of technical
and educated persons. Finally the work had to be
militarised. Freedom of work was only possible in
bourgeois countries. M. Ztvcvteff. of
the Petrograd Soviet, proposed the abolition of
trades unions and the introduction of a com-
munistic dictatorship.— Cablegram.
Lnbor-Commissarv Setylv»p\-tkoff summarise! the
industrial p-oblems- of Russia in the Moscow
Pravda of December 10.... The number of indus-
trial workers had been reduced from 2,800.000 in
1914 to 653,400 in 1919. The Pravda states that
has teen a decrease in the general produc-
tivity of labor, and attributes this decrease to fre
main causes—under-feeding (44 per cent of the
decrease') ; deterioration of discipline (21 per cent.) ;
unsatisfactory wage systems (19 per ; in-
ferior material worn machinery (10 per cent.) ;
bad labor organisation (6 per cent.).
A "British Liberal M.P.. one has
written a l’ttle book “ r r'h fl Rvoji—i
Republic,” bringing his impressions up to the
end of last October. He is an intense sym-
pathiser with the Bolshevik Government
though as he went no further than the big
cities of Petrograd and Moscow, and had
introductions only to Bolshevik authorities
and travelled by Trotsky’s special train at
times, he is probably not quite unbiased, and
he doesn’t profess to be an authority except
by hearsay on the outer parts" of the
State. He was at a great review, and
saw Trotsky in his car ‘‘taking the salute”
from the obedient troops just like anv
Emperor, and he inspected Trotsky’s two
official trains. Bv way of contrast, there
was a railway station where, with luck, he
and three companions secured a hot snack
“the first for some time,” for 150 roubles
(£ls 175.). He found the passport regu-
lations stringent. But the general impres-
sion he got was that with a driving force
behind it Russia was getting its coat off
and starting work. And the visible driving
force seemed to be the three Ministers who
really count (there are 18 People’s Commis-
saries in the Government, but the bulk of
them are hardly heard of) — Lenin, other-
wise Prince Vladimir Ulianov, a noble-
man of sorts, though formerly an exiled one •
Tciiitoherin, described as “a man of aris-
tocratic descent married to an aristocratic
wife”; and Trotsky, the Jew, a journalistic
and professorial sort of character. Thev
are all men acquainted with different coun-
tries and peoples and languages; not
“workers” in the hackneyed sense of the
word; not in the least horny-handed; and
presenting no resemblance to the manual
toiler of one language and one city and few
books or experiences who is always starting
wor’d-saving devices and always being
elbowed out. These three were the'men who
violently scattered the first real People’s Par-
liament in November, 1017. They have run
the show ever since, with a legislative sys-
tem of their own devising—a legislature
which writers on Russian affairs hardly
ever notice, so much do the triumvirs over-
shadow it.
* • * *
The two aristocrats of the usurping
triumvirate were landless enthusiasts, and
one at least was moneyless as well, so then-
policy of the confiscation of land, money,
mines; etc., was understandable. But they
also recognised that confiscation and loafing
are not means of livelihood, and what
Malone, M.P., saw of their doings in
October. 1019, foreshadowed the happenings
of March, 1920. _ Certain factories in the
small area he visited were already working
three shifts. The habit with which the
revolution started of running factories by
workmen's committees had so far changed
that on a committee of five there were only
two workmen, the others being technical men
of the old managerial sort and a Govern-
ment official. Judged by the latest reports
the two workmen are likely to go, leaving
the whole supervision to “technical and
educated persons.” Arrangements were
already in progress for “a proposed conces-
sion to a neutral [foreign] firm for the
construction of a railway from Obi to
Ivotlas,” traversing country abounding in
wealth; and concessions to foreign capi-
talists seem rather a break with communism
As regards the soldiery:—
Trotsky’s revolutionary armies are going through
the identical stages of the French revolutionarv
armies. They have already left far behind them
the period when a council of soldiers debated
whether the regiment should fight or not. Thev
are in the intermediate stage where discipline is
cloaked with the name “Comrade” attached to the
executive rank. Presently the new recruits will
find a discipline awaiting them in no respect less
inflexible than in any other veteran army. They
will accept it unquestioningly.
Even in October last year Trotsky had a
military guard of honor at the station to
see him off on a journey. In the factories
a majority of the workers were women, but
now that compulsory toil—industrial con-
scription—is the order of the day. that may
change. There was in 1919 still nominal
abundance of self-government, beginning with
the village soviet limited to 50 politicians
with one member for every 100- horny-
handed toilers over the age of 18; the vole'st
soviet, to which each village soviet selects
members; the district soviet limited to 300
politicians, to which every village also sends
members ; the provincial soviet, which is one
degree^ higher up and must not contain more
than 300 legislators; above that the All-
Rusian soviet, which is a vast horde; and
on top of that again the All-Russian Central
Executive Committee of 200, which elects
the 18 Ministers. But, though every sane
Russian over 18 who wasn’t an employer,
a parson or a person with any income from
investments _ had a direct or indirect vote
for six Parliaments, the two aristocrats and
the soft-handed Jew seemed to push the lot.
• * * *
Focii’s army dragged the Hun off the neck
of the prostrate and disarmed Russian Revo-
lution. Otherwise it was intended that all the
rich provinces surrendered at Brest-Litovsk
should become German princedoms affiliated
to the German Empire, and that the fate of
the nominally-free Russia that remained
should be under strict German supervision.
If the luck of war had gone the other way
there would perhaps be only a few bones
left to record the great upheaval. Having
escaped this overwhelming disaster, and
having put down the reactionaries and also
those w T ho stood for the idea of the scat-
tered and dismantled People’s Parliament
of 1917, the triumvirate has evidently decided
that Russia must get its coat off. There
are great losses to repair and there is the
habit of industry, which was mislaid in the
war, and still more in the early garish days
of Bolshevism, to be restored. Because of
these things there are signs that the new
way of salvation grows less popular among
the _ regenerators and anarchists of Aus-
tralia. Things are not rvorking out
a bit like they promised to do. The
plundering and confiscation have ended
for want of material. The voluntary
army with elective officers bossed and
advised b'y committees of privates has
given place to a hard-disciplined “conscript"
force which salutes Trotsky the Jew. The
workmen’s councils which ran the factories
have gone because they nearly ran them to
a standstill. Compulsory labor has come
instead of a compulsory Saturday holiday
pud compulsory subscription to the Worker.
The old industrml managing and organising
class of "technical and educated persons”
begins to reappear. Even the hated name of


“bourgeois,” which all reformers of the
brand-new school pronounce with such scorn
and often pronounce so badly, begins to be
spoken again.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Tariff.
A new and improved tariff has come along at
last., and a new and improved tariff is a
good thing. But it isn’t everything. In
fact, it isn’t half so much as it was 20 years
ago, for a tariff can onlj supply employment,
and now a new race of political and industrial
gabblers has arisen to teach that it is a sin
to do the work when it is supplied, no mat-
ter how good the pay may be. As one of
the results, people are overcrowded in germ-
haunted tenements because it has become a
sort of artificial crime to build or make
bricks on Saturdays for any pay, and it may
soon be a crime to do these things on Fridays,
and it has long been a crime to do them with
energy on any day. The tariff will still
leave the question of piece-work versus day-
work to be fought out to the finish. The
day-work idea appeals to the soft-lianded
person who lives by supplying ready-made
opinions to horny-handed persons. As he
has control of the Labor papers, and has
the tyrant’s power to compel unionists to
buy them or at least to pay for them, the day-
work gospel gets a large and compulsory
audience. Its central principle is that no
worker shall get any more pay than the worst
or laziest worker, and that he shall have
no inducement to do more or better work
than his worst or laziest colleague. And if
the worst or laziest is discharged, there is
frequently a strike to force his re-engage-
ment, for he is a precious asset, being the
man who sets the pace. The result is to
produce a dead-level, with no one rising above
it or allowed to rise above it, save the
organiser; to prevent the emergence of an
“aristocracy of labor’’ which might look down
on the organiser; and to make any improve-
ment impossible even for the best men, except
through the organiser who gets up a strike
and insists that the loafer and the incubus
shall be lifted along with the capable pro-
ducer. In fact, it makes the organiser and
talking boss a small god and an outstanding
figure. Naturally all this reduces local pro-
duction, which is becoming less in almost
every line, and more of the imported goods
of foreign profiteers are used to fill in the
shortage. Last year Australia imported
£95,000,000 worth of goods, and the importer
rejoiced exceedingly over the establishment
of a wonderful new record, and probably
passed out surreptitious cash to his good
friends who run the day-work gospel. And
the usual big mass of loans (this year’s
State and Federal loans promise to run to
some £80,000,000) was raised so that there
might be money to pay the importer. An
efficient tariff was a wonderful thing in the
days -when it was understood that every man
was willing to work hard if only he was
paid enough, for with an efficient tariff there
was hardly any limit to what he could be
paid for supplying the local market, and the
amount of local market yearning to be sup-
plied was and is tremendous. It isn’t quite
so wonderful now when the bosses of the
unions lay it down that a man shouldn’t
work on Saturday even if he is offered £5 a
day; and shouldn’t work more than six
hours or less on other days even if he should
be offered 10s. an hour; and shouldn’t be
paid for his production, which can be pro-
tected, but for his time, which can’t. Pos-
sibly the craze might work out its own
remedy if the loans which pay indirectly
for loafing were cut off. As the leaders of
the Loafer party have the most virulent
craze for loans, there is plainly a close con-
nection between the two things.
The Abolition of Excise Duties.
What sort of pull importing sharkdom has
on Australian politics as well as on Austra-
lian business may be guessed from these
items in the new tariff: —
Excise.
Spirit for the manufacture from Aus-
tralian products exclusively of scents and
toilet preparations, per proof gallon .. £ 1 0 0
Spirit for industrial and scientific pur-
poses, per proof gallon .. ..' .. £ 1 5 0
Amylic Alcohol and Fusel Oil, per gallon £1 6 0
Saccharin and similar substitutes for
sugar, per lb. .. .. .. ..£lOO
These and many other items are taxes on
local products designed partly to raise a
little easy revenue and mostly to squash
local industry and prevent it competing
with the great boss-tyrant importer. The
second one is the most interesting. Austra-
lia has had little luck so far as a producer of
oil for lighting and power purposes. It
threatened to do something that way at
Newnes (N.S.W.), but these unaccountable
labor troubles, which always fall on any
Australian industry that gets in the way of
an importers’ monopoly, fell on Newnes, and
the place makes little progress. Grievance-
mongers of all sorts, presumably paid by
somebody, gathered round the works, and
everthing that was done or left undone was a
wrong, even to the lack of spiritual consola-
tion —remedied by the building of an expen-
sive church which nobody attended. But Aus-
tralia has a future in the manufacture of
industrial alcohol, which can take the place
of petrol and render the country independent
of Yankee and other foreign combinations.
It is reckoned that, if the industry hadn’t
been squashed in the past by an excise duty
and wasn’t going to be still more carefully
squashed in the future, 7,000,000 gallons per
annum could be manufactured from the waste
of the sugar crop, small as that crop is.
From this development four results might be
reasonably anticipated:—
(1) Much less imported oil would have to be
paid for.
(2) Much more sugar would be grown when the
industry had this new source of revenue to prop it
up, and much less sugar would be imported.
(3) With the increase of production there would
he a chance of cheaper sugar and cheaper spirit.
(4) With the increase of industry there would be
more self-supporting population—not pauperised
people living on loans —and consequently more tax-
payers; more sharers of the public debt and more
customers for fanners and others.
The reliable rule is that there should be
no excise duties whatsoever except in the
case of articles like spirits whose consump-
tion it is considered advisable to limit. Even
in such cases there should be a much wider
margin than there is between customs and
excise, and a much bigger preference to our
own poison, if the stuff is poison, tint all
excise duties on harmless necessaiy ai tides
are a corrupt, unpatriotic concession to
the shamelessly grasping foreign profiteer,
and the crushing of the industrial alcohol
industry, which also tends to crush the
sugar industry, is a particularly nefarious
case. The income derived from the killing
of local industries isn’t so very large, and
the money made by suicide is never worth
while in any case. The idea of using excise
taxes to destroy local business in the im-
porting interest is a relic of the old rree-
trade days of N.S.W., where Hughes and
Cook and Millen learned their political
economy or whatever such mental trash
may be called. N. S. Wales had no excise
duties save a small one on spirits until
1884. Then a tax was laid on locally-
produced tobacco. It wasn’t that revenue
was wanted. Every year from. 1872 to
1885 there was a struggle to spend the
accumulated surplus, which, marvellous as
it may seem now, when the awful borrowing
policy has wrecked the country’s body and
soul, reached £3,855,753 in 1882. And if
revenue had been wanted there was neither
land nor income-tax in those happy and
almost pre-loan days, and money could have
been raised in many ways. But the tobacco
industry had to be crippled because the im-
porters said so. In fact, later on a Free-
trade Treasurer thought he was doing no-
thing out of the way when he told a depu-
tation of manufacturers, who protested
against increased excise, that they used too
much local leaf and thereby reduced the
customs revenue. In that respect he only
followed a British precedent, for Britain
put an excise of £l4OO per acre per annum
on tobacco land because the Irish outnut
annoyed the English importers with their
American interests. It will take years to
eradicate from the minds of politicians of
the Parkes-McMillan school the idea that
the importer comes first and Australia
nowhere.
Lawyers and Judges.
A lawyer makes a survey of his trade: —
It is no use quoting solicitors’ opinions of who
are the best Judges or the best lawyers. Solicitors
are more concerned with winning their cases than
with studying the true interests of the public.
Costs are the most important consideration with
them, as briefs are with barristers. It is not
the Judge who “knows the most law” who makes
the best Judge for the public. There is too much
law for any lawyer ever to know it all, even though
lawyers lived twice as long as other men. A
knowledge of the most law is, therefore, of very
uncertain value. It is the entrance to an ocean
of error. According to the lawyers, we have had
“sound” lawyers in the past upon the Judicial bench.
llow has the public fared? Lord Cranwortii
stated in the House of Lords, referring to statute
law only, that it was “impossible for any human
mind to master all the laws, yet Judges are sup-
posed to be acquainted with them.” In 1873 there
were over 1200 volumes of case law. Add this to
statute law. How many more there are now it is
impossible to say. The volumes are increasing
rapidly. Counsel’s opinions differing, authorities
contradicting one another, Judges at issue, Courts
in collision; the amazing inefficiency, confusion,
doubtfulness, delay! And although the public is
told that the Bar sees that those who know the
most law are appointed as Judges, the legal pro-
fession has so far failed that citizens dread employ-
ing it, and Acts of Parliament are passed excluding
the legal profession from industrial litigation alto-
gether. Appeals do not depend on the reputed
soundness and knowledge of the law of the Judge.
Appeals, which frequently bring reversals of deci-
sions of “sound lawyers” by other “sound lawyers,”
depend upon the courage of litigants and their
pecuniary ability—such as the persistence of a
Charles Bradladgh or the long purse of the war-
profiteer.
What the public requires is something very dif-
ferent from what it gets from the profession. It
does not want profound students of legal chaos,
“sound lawyers,” exquisite and expensive splitters
of legal straws, brilliant advocates and purveyors
of bygone legal lore. It does not desire the per-
petuation of the evils of the present system, its
costliness and its inefficiency. That Judges them-
selves make so much law, and have so much influ-
ence in thwarting any business-like innovations in
the legal machinery, renders it important that in
the interests of economy and reform legal appoint-
ments should be judged solely from the public point
of view, and that the views of the Bar and of soli-
citors should only be taken “with a grain of salt.”
A practical acquaintance with modern business
methods and a keen eye for the humbugs, frauds,
cheats and bounders who commit wrongs and aggres-
sions, are better qualifications than a lifetime
spent in a study of law, with its thousands of
volumes of arehsologv. A knowledge or books may
be good, but a knowledge of human nature is better.
Therefore, let us stop writing our nonsense about
“profound constitutional lawyers,” “sound lawyers”
and “brilliant advocates” being the most requisite
for the Bench in the year 1920 and the place Aus-
tralia.
It is not intended to reflect upon any recent addi-
tion to the judiciary in Australia. Assuming that
the administration of justice is efficient and satis-
factory and fully meets the demands of the public,
recent appointments cannot be objected to. But it
is only the legal profession which imagines that
legal administration is as it should be. Few people,
however, realise that it is the conservatism of the
lawyers and judges which hinders and obstructs legal
reform. It required a few centuries ago the appoint-
ment of some Judges in a new jurisdiction in the
Equity Courts to overcome the harshness and un-
soundness of the conservative common law. Although
Equity was later on amalgamated with Law, legal
red tape has crushed both Law and Equity. It
would be a step in the right direction, and save
the public enormous cost, if all the volumes of case-
law were burnt by the public hangman, and all
the “sound” lawyers, learnt in such unsound so-
called learning, were taught to recognise that the
administration of justice on the old lines is behind
the times. The tendency of public opinion is to
abolish the legal profession entirely, and to settle
disputes, speedily and cheaply, by the arbitration
of business men, who have no profound learning
and are not handicapped bv any brilliant advocacy.
And the public is right. The best advocate in Vic-
toria, now dead some years, the late J. L. Ptjrves,
always boasted that he knew no law. The best
Judge, the late Tom a’Beorett, had a small prac-
tice at the Bar, and his appointment as a Judge
of the Supreme Court was hotly and strongly opposed
by barristers and solicitors.
The Suffocated Kid.
Curious results arise through the new
definition of Liberty, which makes it con-
sist of doing as little work as possible, and
doing it as slowly as possible, and the new
theory of Progress, which sums it up as tlie
building of railways in dry, unpeopled places
with Private Enterprise money, and paying
for them three times as much as they are
worth, judging the.r worth by the returns they
yield. One result is the Untaught or Suffocated
Kid. In more than one State the schools are
wearing out and their sanitation is dis-
graceful, for some of them date back to the
Australian Middle Ages; and they are also
miserably insufficient for the increasing
population. In many places, even after put-
ting children in uraughty passages and
teaching the young idea how to shoot on
the verandah, there are pupils who can’t
get in, though their parents can be fined
because they are out. lu some of the
Northern River towns of N. S. Wales there
is a demaud that compulsory education
should be suspended because it is impossible
to shove anoiher child into the d.lap.dated
academy without squeezing the infant fiat
and impairing its future usefulness. Very
often there is a reluctance to pull down the
decayed hole of learning because it was built
out of loan funds, and though it yields
nothing yet it professes to be a permanent
and reproductive work. The quantity of old
scholastic premises that this country still
owes for is wonderful. Nevertheless
Minister James had a great idea of
building another million pounds’ worth
of school out of loans, just as his
colleague Holman had of repairing the
State roads out of loans. But James
finds that he can’t build schools even
if he had his million. In fact, he hud
£240,000 to spend last year, and got rid of
only £111,230. Materials are hard to get, anj
labor is scarce, partly because people are too
busy building railways, and partly because
of the new Saturday whole holiday and other
forms of loafing. Contractors, especially the
small country sort, have almost given up
tendering. Sudden increases in the cost of
material, sudden rises in wages, also sud-
den strikes and disputes have driven them
out of the business. Even when a £5OO
school is wanted it sometimes happens that
no one makes a sporting offer to build it for
£lO,OOO. In school-building, as in road-
repairing, Australian civilisation seems to
have almost civilised itself to a standstill.
And the One Big City superstition hasn’t
helped. In Great Britain education, though
supervised by the State, is a local affair, and
it is mostly good. In London last year the
local rate for education alone was 2s. 3d.
in the £ of annual value, which is one of
tbe reasons why the London scholar hasn’t
to learn his lessons in the coal-cellar. The
Australian Minister who sits in the capital
trying to supervise even the repairs to the
back door of a wooden college built for 10
pupils and situated 700 miles away is over-
loaded. He has got the idea that the door
can’t be repaired except by floating a loan
in London, and that the job must
then be at least bossed from the city.
And his constitutents are so accus-
tomed to One Big City management that
they have no idea whatever. Possibly
the upshot of it all will be a reduction of
the maximum school age to 12 and the
expulsion of the elder children to make room
for the rest.
+
Strangers Within the Gates.
Winston Ciiukchill has been referring in
a London paper to “a sinister confederacy
of international Jews for the over throw of
civilisation.*’ That raises an interesting
point. Are there any Jews who are not
“internationals”? In many essentials the
marvellous race resembles tbe great European
royal family. For centuries Jews and
royalties have adhered to rigid marriage
conventions which are only beginning to be
relaxed, so far as the latter are concerned,
now that the caste looks as if it might fade
out. The German and other royalties who
married Crowns in foreign countries imme-
diately exchanged whatever patriotism they
had for the advancement of the Dynasty
into which they married. Rarely indeed
did a prominent member of the Family
ruin his or her prestige by a morganatic
marriage with a fellow-national, however
pure and well-born. Germany and Austria
had hardly finished their last war before
alliances were being arranged between Hun-
garian princesses and princes from Han-
over. Similarly an English Jew of any
standing would rather marry a French or
a Dutch, not to say a German, Jewess than
an English Christian. Hannah Roths-
child, descendant of that Mayer Amschel
Rothschild who a century ago inhabited a
noisome Frankfort slum, was considered by
the Jewry of the world to have disgraced
herself when she married a peer of the
United Kingdom and a future Prime Min-
ister. Italians, Swedes, Poles —even Ger-
mans—are quickly assimilated in tbe social
sense by those races among whom they settle.
But it does not often happen to a Jew or
a king. George V. is the first English
monarch of bis line who has got right away
from the Teuton tradition; even Edward
VII., to quote A. G. Gardiner (“Pillars of
Society"!, “talked German better than he
talked English.” Before Mayer Roths-
child died (and the Rothschild family is
no different except in wealth, from any
other orthodox Jewish family) he sent for
his five sons and gave them a piece of advice
—to “remain united to the end.” One stayed
in Frankfort: the others founded businesses
in Vienna, Paris, Naples and London. Their
descendants are still united —against the
world. This is perhaps why the members
of this family, princes of their race, have
been curiously undistinguished as patriots.
Until the late war, when practically every-
body had to fight, none of them had fought for
any country. As public men their patriotism
has mostly taken the form of helping less
fortunate Jews. The English Rothschilds
did this with disastrous effect to the Chris-
tian population of London, both before and
during the war. By 1017 there were 35.000
Russian Jews in Whitechanel alone: the
fact that they had been able to refuge in
England sa : d much for the Jewish but little
for the English patriotism of those who had
inspired the invasion. Analogously there is
a tradition that no offspß lg of royalty, or
semi-royalty, legitimate or otherwise, shall
be allowed to want, To further pursue the
parallel, Jewish financiers share with royal
rulers the responsibility for most of our
modern wars. It would, of course, be stupid
to suggest that there are no good Jews or
no good kings. Every country tends to get
the sort of king and the sort of Jew it
deserves. The British Empire has had some
nriceless Jews in the last century; and it
has not had serious cause to complain of its
royalties in that time. But the fact remains
that both are exotics. Both institutions
have chosen to keep fences between them-
selves and the nations of their adoption.
Obviously they can never be true nationals
while the obstacles are there.
—♦
Power and Paper.
Tub high degree of specialisation in Aus-
tralian liora, containing as it does whole
groups of plants, such as the eucalypts,
whicii are confined to Australia, renders
special scientific research here absolutely
essential for the development of our “great
natural resources.” .Laboratory tests iu \Vis-
cons.n (U.S.A.) have shown that blue-gums
grown in California compare very favorably
with the standard American species—beech,
birch and maple—in the yield of wood alco-
l,oi, acetate of l.ine, cnarcual ana uir.
Further, the man in charge of the Wisconsin
laoulniiiy Ikluud tiiUt .i.i.oer cut 1U -Alii-
tralia should give even higher yields, owing
to its slower growth and denser nature. But
who in Australia cares': let me woud-aicoinil
question is vital to the Commonwealth. This
country depends entirely on outside sources
for its supplies of 1 nu.d fuel, nrd s<'"ds away
between £2,000,000 and £3,000,000 every
year to pay tor tuem. i u ver-aicoiiol
would serve just as well as petrol for many
purposes, and there is every reason to believe
u.at want W.UJ wo u-nicoiml and Uistiliat Oil
from sugar by-products now run to waste,
from crops such as sorghum and possibly
from coal, Australia could supply all her
own requirements, though of course it isu’t
easy as long as the Government encourages
the establishment of the industry by penalis-
ing it with an excise duty of Is. a gallon.
Much the same can be said of paper-
pulp. Australia sends away nearly
£2.000.000 a year to pay for paper, and by
some mysterious process of reasoning it
seems to be generally believed that the con-
t nent cannot pmcim e suuahp pu n or even
grow timber capable of yielding the neces-
sary fibre. Yet pulping experts in Grenoble,
h ranee, who ought to he iar enougn away
to he unprejud : eed. renorted that favorable
results were obtained by using young blue-
gum trees ( Euc. globulus). Sketchy experi-
ments in Westralia and elsewhere, too, make
it seem likely that paper-pulp can be econo-
mically made from some o f our eucalypts.
For a year or two past tl talk
of Westralia and the Commc
operating to run a forest
tory in W.A. and work on ■(
of the scores of problems . ,
there is the active opposition . impor
ing interest for politicians to cor-.-!-: and
though hundreds of thous -
bans profess a faith in A trail an b < ustry.
in a general way, their ■
passive. So the active f * ■ c .v
prevails—and will prevail until Australian
Protectionists are nrepared to take their
theories seriouslv, and throw out politicians
who will do nothing to advance them.
“Rio”: The British Army rates of pay I
quoted (B. Ll/o/ -O) weie tor the ora.nary
regimental officer. But as the Australian
Permanent Officer is mostly on staff work,
the British staff rates should also be set out,
when the discrepancv between the pay of
the two countries will be seen to be greater
still. A few examples:—
Headquarters Staff.
British. , Australian.
Directors and
Deputies .. £1467- £2lOO £750 (max.)
A.A.G £1317 £650
G.S.o. and staff-
captain .. . . £790 £350- £475
Staff-lieutenant .. £644 £250-£375
Other Staff Positions.
A.A.G. .. ~£1266 £650
Brigade-major .. £BB6 £250-£575
G.S.o. ard staff-
captain .. .. £740 £475
Stati-iicutenant .. £594 £250-£375
Genfrat, Officers.
Brigadiers.. .. £1531
G.0.C., Ist class.. £4342 £l2oo(max.)
In add tion the British get substantial pen-
sions and their work, being almost entirely
with regulars, is easier than the Australians’,
whose system is constantly changing. The
Englishman is also allotted one or two
soldier-servants. He may also draw inter-
preter's pay for every foreign language he
kuows, auc! if a general, gets “tabie money”
as a set-off to his social expenses. Inci-
dentally, the Australian is usually “acting”
in a much higher rank than that for which
he is paid.
A press agitation has been raging for some
time-—chiefly in this paper—on behalf of
members of the permanent forces who, after
distinguished service with the A.1.F., were
reverted in Australia. A few days ago the
Defence Department made its response. Ex-
officers, now serving as temporary w.o.’s, ser-
geants, and even gunners, were informed
through their c.o.’s that they might, if
they so desired, “be transferred to the
instructional staff, and receive appoint-
ments as w.o.’s Class 11., with pay
at the rate of £2OO per annum and
commissions as honorary lieutenants
with the Citizen Forces.” Take the case
of an R.A.G.A. sergeant who is a tem-
porary w.o. His pay is £232 per annum.
The whole of his uniform is issued to him
free of charge. He is probably married and
the owner of a house in the neighborhood of
his work. In consideration of his effici-
ency and bravery in foreign parts a grate-
ful country now offers him through its De-
fence Minister: d) £32 less a year than he
was being paid before his promotion; (2)
the privilege of buying and maintaining an
officer’s kit for the rest of his life; (3) the
possibility of being sent to serve anywhere
between Perth and Brisbane: (4) the right
to wear two stars. What the Government
might have done was to give all the dis-
tinguished ex-A.I.F. regulars the rank and


T*l e Farmers’& Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co.of A ustralia
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Limited
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the hand.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
are being built at a cost which is from
twice to 12 times as much as they are worth ;
and (2) the folly of borrowing at 6 per cent,
to construct railways that don’t and can't
pay. Vic. Railways last year lost £73,424 on
21 nearly-new lines that cost £2,065,633 to
build. Eight lines have been closed which
cost £383,683, and on which interest is still
running at 34 per cent., soon to be 6 per
cent. The annual loss in perpetuity and
possibly even longer than that is £30.114 a
year for interest! Another £369,000 was
spent on surveys of lines never likely to
be completed, and this is still shown in the
balance-sheet. In addition, the Department
has received £4,000,000 from the Treasury
for which it pays no interest. And the
crime of piling up unproductive debt goes
on. The State borrowed £323,768 for rail-
way construction in 1918-19, during which
period six new lines 401 miles long were
opened, six more 1044 miles long were being
constructed, and three were authorised to
cover 321 miles. None of these are likely
to pay, because they are political lines
built to catch votes for M’s.P. They will
not increase the agricultural population,
which is everywhere decreasing because of
the congestion policy that drags goods and
draws people to over-swollen Melbourne.
Until the railways already built “open up
the country,” as they were said to be inten-
ded to do, and earn their own keep, further
railway construction should stop, save under
pay—or at least something approximating
them —that they won on active service.
There aren’t so many, all said and done, as
to make the concession impossible. The
least it should have done was to offer them
the equivalent of their pay as n.c.o.’s, if not
as much more as the services rendered by a
commissioned officer are supposed to be
worth. What the Government has done is
to ask these men to sacrifice a matter of £BO
or so per annum in order to get the Defence
authorities out of a hole.
Nobody can be more torn by artificial emo-
tions than the retired N.S.W. Judge
lleydon, and when he weeps over the woes
of downtrodden Canberra it is like Rachel
howling for her children. For instance: —
N. S. Wales has parted with 900 square miles of
territory.... What for? I defy anybody to point
to anything of the smallest value received in
exchange. The people on the capital area have been
disfranchised. They have ceased to be citizens of
N. S. Wales. They are citizens of nowhere. The
people at the seat of Government know nothing about
the people living at Canberra. How many of them
have been there? How can the people of Can-
berra approach them? The position would be incon-
ceivable if it did not actually exist. Where are
vou confronted with such a state of affairs ?
Yet the people of ’Berra are still citizens
of Australia, w'hich is no mean place, even
though in all his years on the Bench Mr.
Heydon didn’t hear of it. And they are not
shut out of the Church or barred from the
Communion or denied spiritual consolation.
There is still a way to Heaven from ’Berra.
And they can “approach” the Commonwealth
Government by post, telegraph, telephone,
train, steamboat, motor-car, buggy, aero-
plane or on Shank’s pony like other folk.
And if the people at the seat of Govern-
ment haven’t been there, at least all the
States, including Westralia and Tasmania,
have built a railway to take them there,
and are standing a loss of £176 per mile
per annum to keep the line going. And
if the people at the seat of Government
know nothing of ’Berra, then N. S. Wales had
better send better men to the seat of Govern-
ment to tell them. But whether they have
been heard of or not, the ’Berra people
(2500 of them) have had £1.000,000 of
Federal money spent in their district (about
£4OO per head), and the States other than
N. S. Wales have found £600,000 of it.
» .
Dear Bulletin,— The United States Senate,
though it has so far dodged out of the League
of Nations, has resolved that Britain should
set Ireland free, according to the sacred
principle of the self-determination of white
peoples. Now, the position of Britain, with
the conquered Irish and the conquered Boers
and the conquered French-Canadians on its
hands, may be ridiculous enough, but is that
of the U.S. Government with its conquered
Cotton States any better? I vote, there-
fore, that every time a subject of the sort
is brought up in one of our Parliaments, the
motion should read that Ireland and the
Cotton or Old Secession States of Uncle
Sam’s country should both be allowed to
declare by referendum whether they want
to set up for themselves. Consider the situa-
tion :
There was no law against secession. Abraham
Lincoln and co. invented a law.
The Southern States wanted to get out because of
incompatibility of temper. The manufacturing North
was being flooded with immigrants. Their votes
shifted the balance of power to the North. Out of
the first 61 years of the Union the South supplied
Presidents for 49 years. When it became convinced
that it would never elect another because of the
German, etc., immigrants it resigned.
Since the South was licked it has enjoyed the
same share in the government that Ireland enjoys—
that is to say, it can get almost anything except
the separate existence it asked for in 1861.
It still, like Ireland, votes a separate ticket from
most of the North. It has apparently no more
chance of supplying a President than Ireland has
of furnishing Britain with a king.
It never tries secession now, but that proves
nothing. If a small agricultural country had no
show against a big manufacturing one in the
primitive club-and-half-brick warfare of 1861-65 it
has less show now when war is science. And it
has no outside sympathisers, like Ireland. But
between South Carolina with only 6000 foreigners
and New York with 2,748,000 the old gulf remains.
The South is in the Union by conquest, and has
never had a chance to express a peaceful opinion
on the subject. If it is contented, then a referen-
dum would be no loss, and would be evidence of
bona fides on the part of the country which is so
anxious that Ireland should have one. South Caro-
lina, which seceded by itself and set up a republic
by itself, should have a referendum all on its own.
This view is earnestly recommended to the
U.S. colony in Australia; also to Irishmen
here who might speak a word for another
conquered country besides their own. —Yours
with esteem, Solomon Malaprop.
“Good Australian” : James Edmond’s
Anti-Railway League for the Ma State (B.
11/3/’2O) ought to open its first branch in
Victoria. The Railway Commissioners’
report to June. 1919, proved two things
pointed out by Edmond: (1) That new lines
A MAN OF NEW IMPORTANCE.
FOND WIFE: “ What are you thinking so hard about, Bill?"
HUSBAND ( just elected for Rabbitvale by a majority of five): "Maria, I was just won-
dering how this misgoverned country will get on without me when Pm dead.”
the most exceptional circumstances. The
high cost of labor and money on the one
side and our terrific burden of debt on the
other demand it.
“P.0.M.” in rebuttal:—
Mary Gilmore (B. 25/3/’2O) seems to have got
the fourteenth century a trifle mixed with some
other periods when she tries to blame the sins of
the Indies and Carolina on the days of Edward 111.
You might as well blame Oliver Cromwell for the
present condition of the Northern Territory. There
wasn’t any Carolina until nearly 300 years after
the period of robust individualism of which I wrote.
As for wide lands alone filling the dinner table, Aus-
tralia is still far wider and its lands are, propor-
tionally, far more available than those of England
were at that time. I believe the “Merrie England”
before the days of commercialism and modern pro-
gress owed its merriment to its individual man-
hood ; Mary Gilmore believes it owed it to the
external conditions. I submit that, as the external
conditions were about as bad as need be, the facts
hre on my side.
The disabled Diggers of the Ma State
and Westralia have banded themselves
together to further and safeguard their
interests, and now the maimed and incapa-
citated men of Victoria are following suit.
The cost of living still soars, but pensions
are not increasing at the same rate. Many
wounded men cannot return to their pre-war
occupations, and therefore need special train-
ing in some new trade; and hundreds of pen-
sioners are dissatisfied with the percentage
at which Medical Boards assess their dis-
abilities. These and other matters are m
need of attention, so the War Pensioners’
Association of Victoria is being formed to
act as watchdog. The first general meeting
is billed for April 13 in the Athenaeum.
Revival of an old drama, “Our Day of
Power”:—
I had long made up my mind as to how I would
allot my preferences• in Ryde (N.S.W.). I am not
a man to be paltered with, or one who favors half-
measures. I was determined that my wife and
dependants should vote as I did. Loxton first. Bavin
had beaten this excellent man as a Nationalist, and
had then turned Progressive, proving himself thereby
to be a time-server. Henley’s place was dead last.
I objected to his habit of dropping h’s where they
had no right to be; and still more to his swash-
buckling claim to the title of Lieut.-Colonel. General
Herring I placed after Loxton, in consideration of his
war services. Gelling next. I did not grasp this
candidate’s views, but they were very attractively
put. My next choice was Jarvis the Laborite—a
friend. After him one of the S. and C. candidates.
Bavin I placed immediately before Henley. The
rest anyhow.
Difficulties began with the cook. She applies a
simple test to all politicians. How do they stand on
the liquor question? She had been told that Loxton
was a prohibitionist, and had decided to put him
19th. My blood boiled at the irrelevancy. I urged
that the man was innocent. She quoted as her
authorities the names of several hotelkeepers. I
unhesitatingly spoke of Loxton’s splendid work for
the Licensed Victuallers’ Association; of his habit
of attending the Trade’s annual picnic; and of his
monograph “Why I Believe in Alcohol.” Gradually
Cora (Cora is her preposterous name) became con-
vinced. She jibbed next at putting Henley last. “ ’E’s
fought an’ bled for ’is country,” she said. “Why
shouldn’t ’e get ’is reward?” “He never fought,” I
cried passionately. “No more than you did. He
looked after the War Chest —a sort of clothing, store
hundreds of miles from the danger-zone.” But my
lies about Loxton had, in a sense, weakened me as
regards Henley. I was weary with argument by the
time she capitulated. To the last she was chary
about putting Bavin 18th: he had once done her
family a service by getting a member of it out of
gaol—or into it, I was not clear which.
The gardener was also a Henleyite. “I wasn’t able
to go to the war myself,” he said, “but I believe
in standing by the coves that did. They tell me
Henley ought to have got the V.C. at Ypres. Charged
at the head of his battalion into the teeth of the
Germans and saved Amiens.” In time I got his
assurance that Henley would be sacrificed, and a
struggle then began with our jobbing washerwoman.
She had been looking forward for weeks to voting
for John Storey, and, finding he was not on my list
she peevishly declined to vote at all. I eventually
wore her down. She accepted a card fullv marked
I turned to my wife. “Henley’s canvas'ser s were
here yesterday,” she said, “and I told them we were
voting for him.” Could anything have been more
maddening? I devoted myself to the Jesuitical task
of proving that a promise made under such circum-
stances amounted practically to one induced bv
duress, and as such was worthless. "Here is tie
family ticket, I said; “the one which Cora, Wil-
liam, Mrs. O’Brien and I intend to vote. For'God -
sake don’t say you mean to stand out against us.”
She yielded.
We were astir early next morning. I ga Ve our
three retainers a final exposition of the way to
avoid informality. “Don’t get excited,” I ‘said
“It is a simple process. Merely copy the number-
on to your cards as I have written them out. Do
not be distracted by rival canvassers. Thrust them
aside and walk firmly into the polling-booth.”
I then fell in my little command, and marched
them off. No one rushed us. A few apathetic men
were sitting at wooden tables. On e of them it
formed me that, so far, six persons had voted. He
did not seem to care if my detachment voted or not
Nor, in point of fact, did we vote. Not one of u-
was on the roll.
That chameleon of politics, G. S. Beeby.
has an idea for “cutting up the State’’
(N.S.W.). What The -Bulletin mentions
the matter for is to ask languidly who is to
get the “cut” this time.
The suggestion, of a field-officer:—
The big gun that has arrived in Australia is said
to have been “captured by the 31st (Queensland and
Vic.) Battalion of the A.I.F. and the Bth Field
Company of the Bth Infantry Brigade on August
8, 1918.” Now, the capture of this huge affair
was actually effected in this manner. It had been
pushed well forward on a railway line with the
object of shelling the vicinity of Amiens. As soon
as it was discovered, the railway line was destroyed
in rear of it by bombs dropped from one of our
aeroplanes. This prevented the gun being with-
drawn when the infantry advance was made. Fur-
thermore, the destroyed part of the line was kept
well under fire by our artillery, thus preventing
any repairs being carried out. Naturally, • then"
when the infantry later on made its advance, the
battalion in whose sector the gun happened to be
secured the area upon which the gun was situated.
The infantry claims the “capture” of the gun. But
had it not been for the Air Force in the first
instance, and the Artillery in the second, the
gun would certainly not have remained there. No-
thing but the destruction of the railway prevented
its removal. When this gun was sent to Paris at
the request of the French for exhibition, the mark-
ings “Captured by the Battalion” were taken
off and “Captured by the 4th Army” substituted—
a much more correct statement, the Australian Corps
at that time being the only corps of that army.
It is to be hoped, if an inscription is placed on
this gun when mounted in Sydney, that it will
read “Captured by the Australian Corps,” thus
giving credit to the various arms that co-operated
in the job. We all recognise that the infantry
is “the Queen of Battles” and that all other arms
are auxiliary; but it must be recognised also that
it is only by the close co-operating of all
that success is to be achieved. The marking of
guns as captured by this or the other battalion
which had the opportunity of being the first to
pass over the ground upon which they stood, quite
irrespective of whether they had been disabled by
artillery fire or not, was felt by the artillery,
which never got the credit of capturing anything, as
it always had to wait to cover the infantry in its
advance, and so found nothing when it moved
forward. Men who arranged that co-operation, I
know how vital it was, feel that the work of the
Air Force and Artillery ought to be given a little
more recognition.
The day when the first N.S.W. election
returns dribbled in the party that had reason
to think it had won began to divide among
themselves the jobs of running vast and com-
plicate departments for bigger and more
intricate and technical than any bank or
insurance. office or factory. Doodle was put
down on the draft Cabinet list for the Trea-
sury because he had never run a business
in his life and couldn’t pass an actuarial
examination to save his soul, but was a
decent fellow and a good speaker. Goodie
was selected to manage the public estale
which represents 145.000.000 acres and a
revenue of nearly £2,000,000 a year because,
in addition to being an average sort of
member, he owned a farm at Two Cows.
The farm at Two Cows turned the scales.
Toodle was mentioned as Minister for
Instruction because he was a good party
man, spoke well without saying much, and
had been at a State school like other people.
Moodle looked a promising case for Agri-
culture, as he ran a small stock-and-station
agency; and Noodle was spoken of as Min
ister without portfolio, it being agreed tlial
he looked as well without a portfolio as
the next man and better without one than
with one. Nobody was supposed to have
any very special qualifications or any special
mandate, for the people of Two Cows didn't
know they were helping to elect a Ministry,
or which Minister they were electing, or
whether they w r ere electing a Minister at all.
If bishops and judges were also appointed
from among the successful candidates there
might have been a prospective job for
Poodle, but he was left out. Still it is the
system that is wrong—not Poodle more than
anybody else.


A strong, virile nation needs strong, virile
tasks on which to bend its energies. The
Iron and Steel Industry opens up such a
field of endeavor for Australian Manhood,
providing work that develops and fosters
self-control, initiative, stamina and force
of character.
The Australian
Iron and Steel
Industry
would give employment at Australian rates of pay (if
all the Iron and Steel goods imported into Australia
were made hy our own people) to not less than
30,000 MEN,
wHo would earn over
£5*000,000 per year.
POLITICAL
POINTS
When a country is deeply in debt that
mysterious thing called “exchange” turns
dog on it. For instance, a man may get for
£1 Bs. an article from the United States
which may appear as cheap on the catalogue
as one of Australian make. But he will have
to send £2 Os. Bd. or thereabouts to square
the matter. The other 12s. Bd. is “exchange,”
and is payable because this fool country
hasn’t sense enough to keep out of debt.
N.S.W. Labor ultimately went to the poll
in two sections. One proposed to release
without question the I W.W. incendiaries,
who have been thrice found guilty, and com-
pensate them for being bowled out. The
other, including John Storey, proposed to
give them a fourth trial before a special tri-
bunal of its own selection and stand by the
result, or else have a fifth trial—another
example of that new brand of sycophancy,
the struggle to always tickle the ear of
the crowd, which is the greatest curse of
the Labor movement to-day.
An outstanding feature of the N. S. Wales
election was the crash of the soldier candi-
date. The Digger may have his grievances;
but he obviously doesn’t intend to let that
separate him from Australian citizenship,
and he is not going to do anything that may
establish a military caste. The humiliating
experience of Rosenthal, a divisional general
and one of the best advertised of them all,
is not likely to be lost on other officers.
David Hall has left for London as N. S.
Wales Agent-General, and it is to be hoped
that ends the filling of the office with poli-
tical refugees. The job calls'l’or high finan-
cial abilities, because the loan situation is
difficult, and for massive business abilities,
because there are goods to sell and contracts
of all sorts to arrange. It is the sort of
billet that should be advertised and made
a matter of public competition. David Hall
has a few minor qualifications, but what
really won him the job is that his seat was
shaky, and if he lost it he might have to live
by the law, and he wasn’t likely to make a
fortune by the law. So he provided for him-
self, his friends helping him, at the State’s
expense; and everybody takes it as a matter
of course.
A deputation of homeless wanderers fell
into the Age office the other morning and
wept on the editor’s shoulder. They were
Avomen in search of houses. And they
wanted the Age to urge the Government to
“make more houses available.” As if poor,
harassed Lawson had numbers of desirable
modern villas concealed on his person and
was holding them back for a rise! If the
house-hunting women had deputationised the
trades-union leaders they might have got less
satisfaction, but they would have shown a
keener appreciation of the why and where-
fore of things.
According to Prime-Minister Hughes, the
Government is prepared to give every encour-
agement possible to the making of alcohol for
fuel purposes in Australia, and is going to
ask the Institute of Science and Industry
about it. It did that once before, and if
the same results follow, God help the power-
alcohol business!' Two years ago a strong
committee of experts headed by Prof. Lyle
gave Hughes a very exhaustive report on
power-alcohol, in which it stated that from
the technical point of view manufacture
in Australia was easy, and that it could be
made from sawdust, sorghum-stalks, sugar-
waste or any old thing with starch or sugar
ANOTHER DISAPPOINTMENT.
“You ain't got no hope, Mrs. Smith. I couldn' promise to have another single thing
ready for the Prince's visit."
in it. To give the baby industry a start
and make a certainty of it as a commercial
proposition competing with petrol and other
oil-fuels, the committee recommended a bonus.
It didn’t get a bonus; but, to make sure
that it didn’t get a start, an excise duty was
clapped on instead, and that killed any
chance that it might have had. And Aus-
tralia went on paying £3,000,000 a year for
foreign liquid fuel.
Tudor has found a new supporter in the
Argus. Together they are objecting that
protective duties on iron will be “in favor
of big companies,” but neither of them
attempts to explain how an industry can
possibly be protected if high duties are not
going to favor the biggest local manufac-
turer engaged therein. The Tory journal,
on behalf of foreign trade, expresses alarm
at the thought of any big co. controlling
Australian trade in iron .and steel goods
unless it be a foreign co. The leader of
the Labor party affects to see danger to
workers in an immensely-increased output
of Australian hardware if a Hughes Gov-
ernment be responsible for it. In ,other
words, party politics drives Tudor into
the arms of his bitterest press foe: he
would rather be there than see his political
enemy bring in a tariff which he himself
has declared to be urgently necessary for
Australia’s salvation. The plain meaning
of which is: “Damn Australia if any poli-
tical opponent of ours is to get any credit
out of its salvation !”
This insignificant-looking cable gives you
a glimpse probably of the real Germany:—
Commander Bremen has appealed to the Entente
officers not to wear uniform.
In sundry places Entente officers are quar-
tered, in accordance with Treaty tei*ms, and
the sight of their uniforms annoys the Ger-
man multitude. Will these officers, there-
fore, please disguise themselves as civilians
and just slink around? You can judge from
that whether the Huns are reduced to a
respectable degree of humility or not.
There is an agitation afoot to make the
next a record wheat season for Victoria.
Somebody ought to start an agitation for a
record in truck-growing. Population is so
congested around the Yarra, and in conse-
quence so much unnecessary haulage has to
be done, that at almost every railway station
in the potato- and hay-growing districts the
piles of depreciating produce are enormous.
Many farmers would thankfully accept 50s.
a ton for their spuds if they could only get
them away.
Witness after witness, even from that
home of the importers, “the Lane,” has been
telling Victoria’s Profiteering Commission
the same tale—that Australian tweeds are
the best they handle, better and cheaper than
the imported, but they cannot get enough of
them. And the output cannot be increased
at present because they cannot get the
machinery they want from abroad. It is
the wheat business over again. We reaped
little profit from our heavy yields because
the importing disease is in our bones and
we failed to build ships to carry the grain
away. Now we are likely to go short of a
coat to our back* because we don’t make the
machines that will turn our abundant wool
into cloth, and the foreigner simply won’t
supply them till he has finished supplying
himself.
Anstey, M.11.R., lecturing the other night
at Melb. Bijou, alleged that “our great enemy
is capitalism, which listens with quaking
soul to the drum-beats, of the armies of
Revolution. Those beats,” declared Anstey,
“grow louder and louder—they grow nearer
and nearer.” It appears from official tables
that only 17 among every 400 Australian
adults have an income of £3OO or over.
Surely there should be no need of a revolu-
tion to deal with such a mere handful of
tyrants! The other 383 have votes —or all
but an insignificant proportion of them.
Jacka, V.C., has declined the invitation
to be a Parliamentary candidate for Bal-
larat. Jacka is right. The qualities that
make a gallant soldier and a wise states-
man are quite different. And the soldier
ought to be the first to recognise it. Other-
wise the successful M.P. who enlists for the
next war should be made at least a colonel
straight off.
Victoria’s Fair Profits Commission has
already spoken acidly to certain Flinders-
lane merchants about their profiteering prac-
tices, and now it begins to look askew at
manufacturers. Thus the Ballarat Woollen
Co. was told that its latest 37£ per cent.
was over the otitis. And so it would be if
the manufacturer was assured of steady
prosperity. But the tariff has been up and
down, and many an Australian manufac-
turer of woollens not only has passed years
without any dividend at all, but also has
lost most of his capital. When Australia
settles down to a fixed habit of protecting
its industries, it can begin to look coldly on
high dividends.
The Trades Hall in Bananaland is push-
ing the Government to pay a salary to mem-
bers of the House of Fossils, and a measure
on that line is likely to be introduced after
Theodore returns from his visit to Uncle.
The Labor policy, of course, is to abolish
the superfluous Council; but, except at
Conference time, nobody mentions that save
in a whisper.
Unwept, unhonored and unsung the Vic.
Health Board, brought into being 30 years
ago under the presidency of C. A. Topp
(afterwards Public Service Commissioner),
faded out last week. It is succeeded by the
new Health Commission of seven members
consisting of three doctors, an expert in
sanitation, and four municipal councillors
who have never done anything in particular.
Brookfield's overwhelming majority in
Sturt (Broken Hill) is one of the signifi-
cant features of the N. S. Wales Assembly
election. The Labor-party candidates got
nowhere near him. No doubt Brookfield was
helped by the dismal failure of the Arbitra-
tion laws to settle the 10-months-old strike
of Broken Hill miners; but the vote also
gives a hint of the size of the purely-Bol-
shevik element in the labor forces of Aus-
tralia. It is a poison that press, public and
Parliament cannot afford to disregard.
Whoever is responsible for the great fall
in the U.S. dollar value of the English
pound, it certainly isn’t the American manu-
facturer. lie is at his wits’ end to find a
plan for escaping what is equivalent t,o an
export duty that still amounts to about
30 p.c. If a British or buyer
goes to the U.S.A. now lie has to produce
£330 to pay for £lOO worth of goods. In
many cases wherein lie feels the competition
of another country, the American manufac-
turer is therefore now offering practically to
let the bill stand over for anything from
one to three years, the sum owing being
regarded as a loan at interest—secured in
some cases by debentures, in other cases by
options, etc. It is a shrewd move; but it
simply means, of course, that this country
shuffles still further into foreign debt.
The A ALA. used the corpse to assist the
carpenters of Broken Hill to enforce their
claim for £ti 10s. for a 40-hour week. The
militant miners’ executive advertised that
funeral allowance would not be paid in
respect to any dead A.ALA. man buried by
an undertaker whose coflins were made by
men receiving less than 3s. 3d. an hour. The
effect was to concentrate much of the dismal
trade in Jabez Wright’s corpse repository.
But the recent political split altered every-
thing. The A.ALA. followed Breakaway
Brookfield, and sneeringly referred to the
three A.L.P. candidates as an undertaker, a
barber and a conscriptionist. A.AI.A. funerals
now start from the shops of formerly-
despised employer’s who wouldn’t pay 3s. 3d.
an hour to their coffin-builders. In truth
and in fact, Brookfield’s followers decline
to be seen dead in the company of their
old battling friend Jabez.
The revised pension rates for disabled
Diggers, lifting the maximum allowance to
425., is not going to add much to the expenses
of the Commonwealth —it merely simplifies
procedure. The top pension for ex-privates
has been 305., but where it was applied for
the Repatriation Department has hitherto
added 125., so that 425. has for a long time
been the allowance for a single man, with
extras for the married. The old system
involved going before two lots of doctors,
with a lot of unnecessary book-keeping.
A strange argument is going on in Adel-
aide as to whether the Local Option Act
of 1891 was based on an agreement that, if
licensed hotels were given at least 15 years
from that date before being interfered with,
this might be taken in lieu of any compensa-
tion when they happened to get closed. If
AV. K. Simms, the brewer, then M.L.C.,
thought it, or didn’t deny it —which is not
certain —that does not bind anybody to-day.
Alost of the associations or leagues now re-
presenting one side or the other were not
then even in existence. It seems a futile
calling-up of old ghosts.
Gov.-General Ferguson lately put it to
the Sydney Chamber of Commerce that a
League to promote the unification of railway-
gauges would be worth while. It would:
but it would need to be a greyhound
to keep up with its job. In 3897 Vic..
S.A. and N.S.AV. officials estimated the cost
of conforming Vic. and S.A. main lines to
the N. S. Wales gauge at £2,300,500. In
1913 the job would have cost £12,345.000.
To-day it would amount to £21,000.000; and
the estimated cost of standardising the
gauges of all the railways of the continent
is well over £50,000.000, as against
£37,000,000 seven years ago.
THE ORATION OF CESAR OVER THE DEAD
BODY OF HIMSELF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cause me no more delays. Let them count all.
Too long I topple on the perilous brink.
Proclaim the poll’s results and let me fall
Full wallop as the great at last must sink.
Condemned, tossed out upon my pearly ear,
Torn by the great Confusion that, I made.
The Ides of March are past. Mark Caesar’s bier !
The doom is sealed, yet is the price not paid.
I come to bury C’aeear—that is, Me —
Here under leave of Storey and the rest.
His body lies for all the world to see ;
His followers gone, lie needs must give it best.
Ten years ago Wade met a heavy boot
And shrank forth howling to the bitter dark.
Ah Gowen grasped at power, his friends at loot;
And Caesar stood, a man to watch and mark.
Tremendous in his oral strength he rose,
With vivid force his epithets he flung ;
A panic terror shook his cringing foes
At the first clatter of his giifted tongue.
Twice did he turn liis party inside out
By careful movings of a cultured jaw ;
And thrice it came again with warning shout
And all its Conference menace red and raw.
Side-stepping with the corner of his mouth
And treading gently through a sea of speech,
He held the north down firmly with the south
And paused to dance and rose again to preach.
Yet breathless was liis poise, though deft his tongue;
And ruin in a dozen shapes of pain
Stared at him as ’twixt verb and noun he swung
Till the war broke, and all was peace again.
With splendid patriot words he saved his skin,
He placed his job all other aims above ;
And, clamorous for British might to win.
Joined all disastrous things in bonds of love.
Ten years he lingered softly on the brink
Of doing something that he did not do.
All o<esar wrought is written in pale ink.
What Caesar did not stands for all to view.
bet there be tears for Caesar. He is down,
Come a full wallop at one fatal poll!
Another takes his purple and his crown—
And some may make a guess who gets his soul.
So let us bury Casar. All is done.
The fencing-bout is over—tongue and wrist.
Carve out his epitaph and let it run:
“HERE LIES A FAMOUS ELOCUTIONIST”!
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


A LITTLE GAME OP BALL.
“The Peace Treaty has been rejected by the U.S. Senate.” — Cable.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
<BHAS>
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms , , ~
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulatedl,
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Rearing Metals. Leaded Zinc Pigments, Rlue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses. Zinc t)ro ss<^ s j
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE—
, 11. T,. SHACK ELL. Secretary.
LOMDOV OFFICE: PINNERS lIALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, EC. 2
A. .1. SMITH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
R. X. KIRK (AgerAi.
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 02 BROOK MAN'S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS...PORT FIRIK C.~.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
MOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire•
Monobel
Samsoqite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting: Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ELECTRIC STEEL
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.’
We make a Feature of Specially Heat-treated Steel Castings for Ore
Crusher and Rock Breaker Parts. Battery and Mill Liners. Stamper
Shoes and Dies, Cams, Heads, Tappets, Ring Digs. Tramway Tyres.
Toughened Steel Truck Wheels. We can supply any quality hitherto
imported.
ALL STAGES OF MANUFACTURE UNDER MODERN SCIENTIFIC CONTROL.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
Telegraphic Address: “Electric Steel.’’ ALEXANDRIA. SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The City Mutual Life Assurance
Society (Sydney):— ~
Added to
Written Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Fund.
1907. . £82,388 £33,001 £18,875 £2055 £28,45,
1908.. 93,442 29,894 24,162 562 38,824
1909. . 106,089 34,512 27,078 5805 39,294
1910.. 121,588 39,352 28,961 7388 45,887
1911. .*150,250 473,844 27,774 6087 42,545
1912. .*166,049 461,070 30,482 7005 67,492
1913. .*184,834 475,991 30,708 6862 71,273
1914. .*207,565 483,967 33,521 8863 81,214
1915. .*230,727 4107,188 33,740 9029 80,770
1916. .*253,963 4108,811 36,145 3000 106,007
1917. .*282.008 4142,900 41,105 2271 95,732
1918.. *339,743 4149,279 51,456. 581 138,427
1919. .*392,530 4150,216 55,829 6466 180,019
•This includes “premiums purchasing paid-up policies
allocated from cash bonuses not drawn.’
t'l'his includes “cash bonuses” —£17,221 for 1911,
£19,512 for 1912, £22,770 for 1913, £28,317 for
1914, £33,687 for 1915, £38,472 for 1916,
£44,167 for 1917, £51,126 for 1918, and £62,110
for 1919.
A record volume of new business was placed
on the books last year—477 < policies assur-
ing £1.007.D40. compared with 4927 accept-
ances for £1,437,275 in 1918—but managing-
director George Crowley says that if the
management had wished it could easily have
written two or three times more. Though
it would look very nice to see three millions
of new assurances on the premises as a
result of the year’s scouting, there are good
reasons why the brake was applied. Under
the most favorable conditions the writing ot
new policies is costly. In young offices
which have to battle hard to coax in policy-
holders it is not unusual for two years’ pre-
miums to go in getting that business. In
older offices, with efficient organisations and
with reputations which attract newcomers,
the cost is smaller, though by the time com-
missions and medical and other exes, have
been met a big bite is always taken out of
first premiums. It is The Bulletin’s prac-
tice to estimate renewal business as costing
7 p.c. and single-premium business 3 p.c.:
and on that basis the City Mutual’s new
business cost approximately 67 p.c. of its
first year’s premium income. This was a
good performance, though it hints at what
would happen to the aggregate expense rate
if the volume of new business were increased.
Last year’s expenses in proportion to total
income (excluding the previous year’s
bonuses left with the Society to purchase
further insurance) worked out at 16.6 p.c.
But assuming that three times the volume
of new business had been handled at a cost
of, say, only 60 p.c., then the year’s expense
rate would have been over 26 p.e. of total
income. The result would have been a nar-
rower margin of surplus available for
bonuses; and the City Mutual would not
risk curtailing its bonuses for all the new
business to be picked up in the Common-
wealth.
Bonuses are trumps in the City Mutual,
and the management has reason to be proud
of its performances. As George Crowley
puts it: “It sounds like a romance in life
assurance to be able to record that while
during the past 10 years the premiums
received by the Society were £1,375.000 the
cash-bonus distribution for the same period
amounted to no less than £330,000, an aver-
age dividend of nearly 25 p.c. p.a. No other
life office in the British Empire has been
able to produce such a return to its policy-
holders.” But high bonuses are not always
what they seem. Surpluses can be varied
according to (1) the premiums charged and
(2) the methods adopted in calculating policy
liabilities. The City Mutual measures its
liabilities to policy-holders with a conser-
vative eye; though last year’s interest earn-
ings on average funds worked out at almost
6 p.c., the policy valuation as at December
31 last was made on the basis of funds earn-
ing only 3i p.c. in future. As a result, in
addition .to the distributable surpluses
revealed, there are reserves which not
only strengthen the backing for policies, but
should pave the way to even better bonuses
later on. The latest actuarial investigation
produced a surplus of £91.000, and of that
£73.000 is to be distributed. The growth
of these divided surpluses has been very
rapid:—
1913 .. £22.770
1914 .. 28,317
1915 .. 33.687
1916 . . 38,472
1917 .. £44,167
1918 .. 51,126
1919 .. 62.116
1920 . . 73,000
A fine performance, indeed, considering the
effect of war (and, last year, of ’flu) on the
‘'•laims-by-death figures:—
1914 .. £18,787
1915 . . 36.451
1916 . . 30,801
1917 .. £61.333
1918 . . 55,534
1919 .. 43,973
One very satisfactory feature of the bonus
distributions is that, though the manage-
ment has its cheque-book always at hand to
pav cash on any policy whose holder desires
his whack in that way, very few members
withdraw the money. Of last year s dis-
tribution of £62.116. policy-holders left no
less than £59,689 to be applied towards pur-
chasing further insurance.
A moderate expense rate and a favorable
loss experience are the two big factors in
making bonuses; but the manner in wfi ch
funds are invested is also a factor. xne
reason why the City Mutual can pay excep-
tional bonuses is partly visible in tins cata-
logue of assets, which shows also the changes
which have taken place since the war: —
1913. p.c. 1919. p.c.
Public securities ..£111,825 15.6 £281,680 19.9
Mortgages .. .. 309,446 43.2 607,9/5 42.9
S on policies .. 103,279 14 4 148,793 10.5
Properties . . . . 111,026 15.0 •
Shares & debentures, etc. 36,798 5.1 66,08< ia
Cash & sundries .. 44,737 6.2 6~,4-3 4.4
£717,110 £1,417,186
The society thus has over twice as much in
mortgages as it has in public securities, and
though the former class of investment is
much more profitable it calls for a good
deal of caution, particularly at a time like
the present, when values are inflated. But
there is no reason to suspect that the City
Mutual does not regard its mortgages m the
conservative way that it estimates its policy
liabilities. Anyhow, a contingency reserve
of £36,000 has been accumulated. The
society has grown very rapidly during recent
years, and last years addition to reserves
alone exceeded the total income of any year
prior to 1913; or, put another way, income
has been more than doubled during the past
six years.
# * # #
Huddart, Parker, Ltd. (Melbourne),
from the time when, as the prospectus put
it, the co. had' “reached dimensions too large
for it to be continued as a proprietary” :
, Dividends. > To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. 6 p.c. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1912.. 93,016 28,125 7 p.c.= 33,125 81,766 28.201
1913.. 03,058 30,000 6J „ „ 27.500 5,558 33,709
1914.. 60,460 30,000 5 „ „ 25,000 5,460 39,219
Profit on sale of assets, plus trans-
ferred from contingency account, 14,136
1915.. 90,634 30,000 7 p.c.= 36.000 25,634 78,989
1916. .117,140 30,000 10 „ „ 50,000 37,140 116,129
1917. .140,645 30,000 10 „ „ 60,000 60.045 176,774
1918.. 220.747 30,000 11 „ „ 55,000136,747 312.521
1919. .289,387 30,000 11 „ „ 55,000204,387 510,908
A profit sufficient to give the ordinaries
almost 52 p.c. after settling with the prefs.
looks a bit over the odds, particularly at a
time when a stiff increase in fares is con-
templated. But Huddart Parker’s did not
make it all from trading. The directors give
the net earnings for the year as £100,717 ;
but that was after strengthening the insur-
ance fund by £67,1)54. In addition, from the
sale of the s.s. Excelsior, Hebburn and
Meeinderry they realised £120,716 over book
values, and that amount was transferred
direct to reserves. But even £289,387 may
not represent the full net surplus resulting
from the year's operations. Besides the
general and insurance reserves there is an-
other for , “contingencies, taxation, deprecia-
tion of property and shares in other cos., re-
pairs and maintenance, boilers and renewals,
superannuation fund, etc.,” and this reserve
has been built up rapidly during recent
years:—
1914 .. .. £30,185 Increase £5,678
1915 .. ... 63,812 „ 27,627
1916 .. .. 123,117 „ 59,305
1917 . . . . 181.239 „ 8,122
1918 . . . . 262,089 „ 130 850
1919 .. .. 292,494 „ 30,405
It may be discovered later on that all of
the £30.405 net addition for the year will not
be required for the purposes for which it was
set aside, and that some of it should have
been treated as profit. Still, apparently a
mere trifle went into this fund last year
compared with earnings disclosed.
The surprising feature about the fat per-
formances during the past few years is that
they have been possible under Government
“control.” Shipping managements have
been bound hand and foot by the Federal
Shipping Controller so far as movements of
vessels have been concerned; yet seemingly
there has been no attempt to exercise control
over earnings. Even more amazing is the
assertion of a Sydney shipping man the other'
day that “controlled” vessels whose opera-
tions are limited to coastal work “have not
been a paying proposition for the past 18
months, the loss running into some hundreds
of thousands.” Incidentally, he let slip the
secret of the proposed increases:—
Except for a 10 p.c. rise after the Armistice,
fares have not been increased since 1914, whereas
costs have gone up to an extraordinary amount.
The shipowners, realising that they would have to
raise rates and bear the odium of so doing, have
put it to the Government that since its control has
been responsible for the position created it should
raise the rates before returning the vessels.
If the Government has been such a heavy
loser because of its “control,” whence have
the shipping cos. derived their abnormally
large profits—apart altogether from sur-
pluses on realisations? From the time of
Huddart Parker’s reconstruction until early
in the war, it was doing rather poorly. But
during the past five years it has shown this
very rapid progress :
1914. 1919.
Assets apart from steamers, pfo- ‘
perty, shares in other cos., etc. £342,705 £1,390,045
Liabilities 97,177 271,021
Surplus liquid assets . . £245,528 £1,119,024
The co. thus holds surplus liquid assets over
4i times what it showed five years ago ; and
while the auditional £S< 3,500 has been piled
up the book value of the fleet, properties and
interests in other cos. (Hebburu Colliery is
the principal one) has been reduced by only
£322,000. According to the balance-sheets
Huddart Parker’s has apparently improved
its position by over three-quarters of a mil-
lion. There is one aspect of this perform-
ance, however, which must not be over-
looked. A good deal of the improvement has
been due to the sale of steamships, and it is
too much to expect that a fleet which is half
a dozen vessels weaker than formerly can
go on earning larger profits. The co. sold
its boats at a time when any old tub fit to
put to sea was bringing uudrearut-of prices.
But the cash which thus flowed in, anji a
good deal more besides, will almost certainly
be required to replace the lost tonnage. It
still remains to be seen whether, when the
expensive additions have been made, shipping
cos. can maintain earnings on even the pre-
war scale. If they cannot, then the profits
which have shown up from sales have been
a delusion, and have been of no more actual
benefit than if the cos. decided to write up
the whole of their fleets to current values
and credited the reserves with the “profit”
therefrom, for such a move would not im-
prove the co’s. profit-earning in the least.
The big difference, however, is that from the
sales effected the cos. hold considerable cash,
and if prospects for extensions don’t look
promising they can keep this money at work
elsewhere, Huddart Parker’s is so snug now-
adays that it lias in surplus liquid assets
alone £119.024 more than the total paid
capital; or, taking another point of view,
after setting aside assets to represent the
half-million of pref. capital, there are sur-
plus assets with a book value of £2 14s. to
back up each £1 ordinary share.
The Squatting Investment Co. (Mel-
bourne)
Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1900.. £21,801 6 p.c. = £14,600 £7201 £21,355
1907.. 19,561 5 „„ 14,600 4961 26,316
Loss.
1908.. 8,816 4 1-0 „ 12,167 5,333
Profit.
1909.. 12,069 3J „ „ 9,733 2330 7,669
1910.. 9,690 „ „ 9,733 7,632
1911.. 7,444 3) ~ „ 9,738 —• 5,343
1912.. 10,401 3j „ „ 9,733 728 0,071
1913.. 18.292 61 ~ „ 19,466 4,897
1114.. 17,661 3i „ „ 9,733 7928 12,825
1915.. 14,569 6§ „ „ 19,466 7,928
1916.. 1,839 H „ ~ 9,733 34
1917.. 19,798 6| „ „ 19,466 332 366
1918.. 24,157 8 1 „ „ 24,334 189
1919.. 14,861 5 ~ „ 14,600 261 450
This co. has been pinched by drought again.
Its stations are in tVi far south-west of
Queensland, and that country last year
experienced about its record thirst. Between
October, 1918, and early this year no one
fall of rain exceeded SO points, and the
aggregate wet last year was (fin.: —less than
half the average. So severe has been _ the
season that even the rabbits have been wiped
out. To meet its troubles the co. had to
seek agistment country elsewhere, and while
that prevented some losses it meant heavy
expenditure. The toll of the drought is
shown in this comparison of the stock
figures, in which the effect of the 1915
drought is also visible: —
1914. 1916. 1918. 1919.
Rams .. .. 1,412 935 1,410 1,583
Ewes . . . . 51,036 33,150 40,790 39,173
Wethers . . . . 24,949 10,705 14,146 6,257
Weaners . . .. 30,394 4,918 25,945 14,200
However, the dryness did not knock the
accounts about as other droughts did.
Though £9289 is charged up as expenses
directly incurred by the trouble, revenue
has been assisted by good prices, and £6441
of last year’s revenue came from the sur-
pluses realised over and above book value
of clip on hand at the previous balance. But
even the little 5 p.c. distributed to share-
holders is not all it looks, for they
are requested to regard Is. of the 3s.
per share distribution as return of capi-
tal. Nine shillings per share has been handed
back this way since 1912, and when a
further Is. has boen paid the directors intend
to reduce capital by 10s. per share and
simultaneously write down the book value
of leases. Some of the eo.’s holding has
been resumed by the Government, and there
are now 1018 sq. miles held on lease with
15 years to run. Instead of accumulating
a reserve for the redemption of capital when
the leases do expire, the directors adopted
the method of distributing practically all of
each year’s surplus, representing portion of
each distribution as a return of capital. So.
though the table shows dividends totaling
40 p.c. for the past seven years, over one-
third of it has avowedly been returned capi-
tal. In other words, the actual dividend
rate has been about '6s p.c. p.a.
Disregarding the supposed repayments,
capital is £292.005 in 97,305 shares of £•>
10s. paid to £3; and the book value <>i
leases, with improvements, £213,361. Apart
from station properties at Dec. 31 last the
co. had assets totalling £59,991. Deduct-
ing the £1163 of liabilities and the latest
dividend and bonus (return of capital), the
current year’s accounts began with a sur-
plus of more or less liquid assets of £79.0.)0.
There remains £169,109 of capital to be
made good during the next 15 years, assum-
ing that the leases will not be renewed
and that no compensation is paid for im-
provements. To fulfil this contract the co.
will need to make an average of £12.000 p.a.
over and above any interest it may pay on
capital. How it will pan out depends first
on seasons and markets and then on the
co.’s luck in holding on to its leases at low
rentals.
Victoria Malay Robber Plantation
Co., Ltd., office in vegetables at
Seremban, Federated Malay States: —
Outlay Total De-
Divi- on Devel- velopment De-
Sept., Profit. dencls. opment. Account. ficit
1910.. £1747 £1,747 £404
IQil _ 1432 3,179 689
4yj2.. 1996 5,175 1003
1913.. —•—• 2195 7,370 1711
1914. . —. —. 3485 10,855' 2011
Preliminary expenses (net) £1550 1 12 495 494
transferred to development account j
1915.. £l6O 5262 15,667 301
1916.. 1130 5 p.c. = £lO5O 8054 18,721 221
Reserves.
1917.. 2820 5 „„ 1250 3239 21,960 1349
Los,’.
1918.. 677 —• 5169 2i,129 6(2
1919.. 61 3423 30,552 621
Note first that the figures in the last line
cover operations for the 12 months to Sep-
tember last. It was a period of marking-
time and patiently waiting to see what was
going to happen to the rubber market when
the war-clouds lifted. What with freight
troubles, embargoes on exportation to vari-
ous countries and consequent poor market-
prices, the Malayan plantations have had
a difficult passage during the past few years.
During 1918 the price slumped to almost
Is. 6d. per lb. ; last year the 22.7701 b. sold
realised 2s. 3.2 d. But since the cost of
production, including depreciation and a
proportion of Melbourne expenses, was Is.
6.72 d in 1918, and 2s. 2.6 d. last year, opera-
tions were not profitable. The position is,
nevertheless, better than the last line of
the table would hint. The Victoria Malay
management had faith in the immediate
future of the market and withheld from
sale as much rubber as possible until prices
improved. Thus at the balance there were
59,1841 b. on hand which had been included
at 2s. 2d. net. The London market price
has since moved to over 2s. 9d., and that
has added £l5OO to the value of stocks.
The current year’s accounts will, therefore,
benefit to a considerable extent from last
year’s production. Not only has the man-
agement withheld stocks, but it has cur-
tailed tapping during the past two finan-
cial years. Forecasted production for 1918
was 85,0001 b., and for 1919 100.0001 b.;
actual outputs for the two years were
70,6011 b. and 82,3971 b. respectively. For
the current year the co. hopes to harvest
140,0001 b., and if the market holds up for
a few years and the plantation has ordinary
luck there should be a good time ahead for
shareholders. Every 3d. per lb. profit made
on this year’s estimated production and on
unso’d stocks will mean a £2500 addition to
the P. and L. balance.
Owning to recent adverse conditions and the
continued outlay necessary on development,
financing has not been easy. At September
30 last paid capital was £25.000, but liabili-
ties had mounted to £12,973 —mostly ad-
vances from the F.M.S. Government, the
co.’s agents and the bank. To ease the
position, a month or two ago the unissued
5000 £1 shares were put out —apparently at
a premium of 5s. —and the money thus got
in will cut liabilities by practically one-half.
* * * *
After years of investigation the Collie
(W.A.) coal cos. are now doing the_rigit
thing in putting up a plant to cost £50,000
for making 200 tons of briquets a day. Collie
coal has a calorific value about midway
between Newcastle black and Altona brown
coal, and averages about 10,500 B.T.U. It
will require a binder because of its friability,
and two chemists long ago suggested using
the tar which can be cheaply and easily dis-
tilled from the “black boy” tree, so plentiful
in the West. The process to be tried is the
invention of Captain Alister Ewing, assist-
ant-engineer of the East-West Railway.
Newcastle black coal costs £2 a _ ton on
Fremantle wharf, and Collie coal is worth
16s. or 17s. a ton at Bunbury. Ewing claims
he can bring the heat value of the briquets
up to 13,700 and if he does a highly-valuable
industry wfill be created. The development
of briquetting of inferior coals and lignites
in the U.S. has made rapid progress since
the war, and many plants, on a large scale,
are now in operation there. Nearly all use


Metropolitan-Vtckers Electrical Co., Ltd.
Everything Electrical
for nnlr They . offer the advantage of undivided responsibility
ror power and lighting equipments.
Their productions include: Steam Turbines, Turbo-Generators, Blowers and
5™ or 9 n 1 C ;f d /‘ users ' A . C and DC Generators and Motors. Electric
nnd Cnnrrnl r- Rail^ a J Equipments, Transformers and Converters, Switch
Accessories 6ear ’ Meters and Ins truments, Lamps, Fans and all Electrical
1C
CO. ltd
CUCTMCM.
Australian Offices-
-84 William Street, Melbourne. 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
Works:—Trafford Park; Manchester, England.
AINSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Hie advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within the reach
of every motorist. The Q.E. Mercury Arc Battery
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its 'post is a mere trifle compared with the
convenience and economy of home charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efficiency of a batterv, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
the man who leaves little to be desired may be
either a paragon of virtue or a burglar. The roof-
* n S that leaves little to lie desired is Adamax
Asphaltum Roofing. It is a twentieth-century roof-
mg, absolutely unaffected by time, rust, atmospheric
acids and chemical fumes. The most serviceable
roofing for bungalows, factories, garages, farm build-
ings, etc., costing less than the price of iron and
less for freight charges. For further particulars
write to William Adams and Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney. Also at Melbourne" Brisbane, Perth
and Adelaide. —-Advt.
Concentrating machinery for all classes of minerals
can be made locally just as well as they can be
unported from abroad. The Austral Otis Engineer-
ing Company, of Melbourne, specialise in all
machinery for the mill, including crushers, rolls,
grinding pans, tube mills, concentrating tables,
flotation plants, ore samplers, etc. They have
installed numbers of plants in Australia and outside
it, and are always ready to give information on
machinery for milling.— Advt. [4
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.—Copy of letter received
from G. H. Odling, Parramatta Road, Svdnev, dated
26th March, 1919: “Dear Sirs,—ln reply 'to your
inquiry we have pleasure in stating that the wood
pipe laid down in our smiths’ shop, which conveys
the blast from the fans to the smiths’ forges, has
proved in every way satisfactory. We have not had
to renew any part, and the pipe is as good as when
laid down five (5) years ago. (Sgd.) G. H. Odling."
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue. The Australian
Wood Pipe Company, Ltd., (H. 0.) Burns Bay Road,
Longueville, N.S.W. Contractors to all State
Governments.— Advt.
Patents. —Have you • an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Austkalian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5085. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
# «
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
t i * j„? n .) ’ Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
hand and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work ; contractors advised ; railway work
00 Queen-street, Melbourne.—Advt.
* * * *
The manufacture of “Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
lasmama, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Advt 5 Nelson & Robertson . Loftus Street, Sydney.—
* * * .
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. W’rite
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
* * •
. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer valuing, organising, technical advice
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne. — Advt.
* * • •
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
J a . t . es - or write for particulars. H. B. Selbv & Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourlre Street, Melb.—Advt.
Make Your Footwear Last Longer
SeTSe!” amolm ' "' ear can onl - v be obtained by using a Dressing of the
j
the sign or
AGOOD SHINE \
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES
5J* W At h by a lea - th - er . experts - They are free from all mineral
,r! n,m- h a / e luJunous to leather, and act as a preservative,
in addition to giving a brilliant polish.
£?o LORS ®. la^ k > Brown, Dark Brown, Os Blood, White
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey. ’
IN BOTTLES AND TUBES. Obtainable Everywhere.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney
a low-temperature process, first coking the
brown coal, then crushing and briquetting it,
using the pitch contents as a binder. The
scientific treatment of anthracite and
bituminous coals b.v extracting their valu-
able tars and ammonia is rapidly becoming
general m the U.S., and enthusiasts have
claimed as high as 90 p.e. of the energv in
coal can be recovered by the low-tem-
perature process. If the present wasteful
methods of burning coal and destroying its
most valuable contents be abandoned 'in favor
ot this new mode of treating it scientifically,
the world and its industry will gain con-
siderably in productivity. Fuel to-dav is
equally a s important as finance. It is'said
that an English firm of manufacturing
chemists has agreed to spend money on a
plant to handle “blackboy” on a large scale.
Lionel Robinson’s little brother Arthur
who is in London feeling Cohen’s pulse
S-ding the £6,000,000 Vic. conversion loan
wanted within five months, has issued a
warning that <> p.e. will have to be paid, as
there are many suitors for accommodation,
including attractive industrial propositions.
How serious the situation is can be iudged
fioonnnnnn th f at « within five y«ars over
±100,000.000 of State debts alone will
mature; and by far the greater part is
represented by works which are not at prS
f>ent earning 3 p.e. *
The question whether the A.M.P. should
refund the extra war-risk premiums charged
new policy-holders who enlisted is to come
up for discussion at the annual meeting in
Sydney on 16th inst. But the resolution to be
introduced by Gerald It. Campbell, who has
fathered the movement, is likely to lead on
to many side-tracks. Instead of proposing
directly that these extra premiums be re-
funded,- and leaving it to the management to
adopt, its own method of making the refunds
in the event of members approving, this
long-winded round-about motion is on the
business paper:—
Kxtra War Kisk Premiums charged shall be a
liist charge upon the interest earned hv the Society
upon its funds since August 5, 1914, and to be
(allied thereon in future in excess of the amount
ot interest which would have been so earned it
Ihe average rate of interest earned upon its funds
since August f>, 1911, had not exceeded the average
rate thereon during 1914. and the Society shall
repay out of such excess interest, as and when it
is available, an amount equal to the said respective
extra war risk premiums, etc., etc.
Apart from the question whether the new
policy-holders who voluntarily subscribed
the extra premiums should have them re-
funded, it is quite illogical to claim the extra
interest earnings as the special property of
those new members. The improved interest
earnings should he used merely as an argu-
ment that the society has so benefited from
war conditions that it can afford to hand
hack the premiums without being squeezed.
The proposal has already been fully dis-
cussed on this page (B. 21 and 28/8/T9).
Policy-holders unable to attend and who wish
to vote on the proposal can do so by proxy,
the necessary forms being obtained by appli-
cation to the Society.
A well-known mining-engineer discusses
the declining mineral production of N. S.
Wales:—
It is usual nowadays to attribute all our mining
maladies to the effects of war, labor conditions and
the geological structure of our continent. However,
the decline set in long before war was declared,
and labor conditions ar e to a great extent the result
of restricted opportunities for miners to obtain
work, for when many of our at present closed-down
mines were in operation there was an ample supply
of labor to work them. Centralisation was not then
such a pronounced mania, and the workers in
primary industries had not been, lured into the
cities. i
(Though to some extent responsible for present
mining conditions, the geological structure is mainly
used as an excuse for lack of initiative. It is prac-
tically impossible to cite one instance of a large
deposit being discovered in Australia unless it was
plainly indicated by a prominent outcrop "or was
located by mere chance. Cobar, Broken Hill, Mt.
Morgan and the Cloncurry group are examples. In
most eases these deposits were located by pioneers
ignorant of ordinary mining and of geological prin-
ciples. Huge fortunes have been made by private
individuals and enormous sums collected as revenue
by the Governments, but an insignificant proportion
of the cash thus collected privately or publicly
has been utilised to maintain our mineral output.
Old prospecting methods _have almost faded out,
and it is doubtful if there are a dozen true pros-
pectors operating in N. S. Wales at tli e present
time. There are many, so called, who are merely
prying into old workings with the hope of locating
a bonanza left by the old-timers. Needless to say,
good mines become harder to locate as the country
develops, but the Government, to a large extent, is
responsible for the condition of decline which the
officials so serenely announce every year.
The main reasons for the non-discovery of further
deposits are:—
(1) The high cost of living, which is a serious
deterrent to a prospector, who would otherwise
willingly spend years of his life at the work which
fascinates and appeals to him. To grub-stake a
prospector is now an expensive undertaking.
(2) The ridiculous restrictions placed on lease
tenure by .the Mining Act, which does not dis-
criminate between the legitimate prospector and
the “promoter” whose mining is mainly confined to
the pockets of Pitt-street habitufis. in many in-
stances the prospector and original holder of a
mining lease is driven to forfeit all or a great part
of his interest to the “promoters” by labor con-
ditions and other restrictions of our cast-iron Mining
Act. The legitimate promoter is a necessary factor
in mining, and the Government should protect and
footer him. The “aid” allotted and paid bv the
Prospecting Board is most times sheer waste of. money,
and is generally paid on the recommendation of the
Mines Inspector, an official appointed primarily to
ensure the safety of employees and certainly not for
any geological knowledge he possesses.
(3) Concerning the absence of any reliable geo-
logical survey, it may be claimed that geological
plans are already in existence; but these can be
discarded as of practically no value to the pros-
pector. “Approximations” would be a mild term
to apply to them, and it is very doubtful if any
official of the Geological Survey would attempt to
justify the existence of the Department as now
organised and operated, except as a department for
investigating known deposits, or for reviving in-
terest in fading mining propositions. It cannot be
from lack of precedent that the Government has
failed in this important work, as the U.S. Geological
Survey is a striking example of the beneficial results
which follow intelligent geological surveys. A couple
of years ago the N.S.W. Government provided in the
estimates for survey and prospecting parties. The
policy was hailed with approval all round, but
unfortunately nothing was done.
It is time that the various mining interests of
N. S. Wales in particular, and Australia generally,
combined in a protest against the perfunctory treat-
ment which the demands for an up-to-date geo-
logical survey have received. Exploration and pros-
pecting parties could work in unison and simul-
taneously with the survey officials, and if free from
political influence in the appointments and organisa-
tion, beneficial results must eventuate.
* * * *
The fire iu the C.S.A., Cobar. is appa-
rently not so serious as it might have been.
* ,} s confined to the oxidised zone, and is
well away from the working faces. But even
though there is no need for the miners to
go near the burning section, a fire is an un-
comfortable neighbor under the safest of con-
ditions.
• * * *
“Old Hand”: Cap’ll Teddy Miles trailed a
quick-firer on the Badak-Jeneri crowd last
week concerning the probable market value
ol that show s product. It may have been
ull legitimate criticism, but a very danger-
mis precedent was created when the reading
of Miles’s letter was permitted in the call-
room of the Stock Exchange. Those who
attempt to justify the innovation declare
tlmt, since members must have material on
which to base advice to clients, this publi-
cation of Miles’s allegations was right and
proper. But where would ’Change have stood
it the float had been jeopardised by the act?
As it is. tlie £40,000 asked for in the re-
construction of Badak lias been collected.
But if anybody is to be permitted to air
Ins views in tho call-room, as Cap’n Miles
l a nt>w terror is ahead of tlie investor.
Seeing that Miles was granted the privilege,
anybody else who wants to make a cockshy
of a show might reasonably consider that
th(> ring is open for him also. On the
other hand, why should not the boomster
have the same rights? It is up to Mel-
bourne ’Change Committee to see that no
repetition of the Miles incident will be pos-
sible in future.
From Hampton Plains: Unjustifiable
flotations, made possible by the anxiety of
the public to subscribe to undeveloped ven-
tures, are still being engineered, and, as the
supply of “suitable” blocks is far short of
the demand here, promoters are turning
their attention to Mt. Monger and other
old adjacent pitfalls. These flotations are
certain to help to end the present boom.
No far the Government has not attempted
to protect the public; it holds the view that
if the public has not enough sense to
keep its lingers out of fire it deserves to be
burned.
* *• * *
Option-seekers are being offered all kinds
of inducements in the West to turn their
attention from Hampton Plains and try their
luck elsewhere. One outback leaseholder
offers a paid-up life policy for £5OO, another
a half interest in some racehorses, while still
another is agreeable to give a third share in
a mine to anyone who will install a pumping
plant and open up a body of gold-bearing ore
reported to be. 10ft. wide and to average
lOdwt. According to records the show' has
yielded £107.000, and if the owner is truth-
ful there is more left in the cupboard Gian
has been taken out.
* -X- * *
Bullfinch (W.A.) boomed for a while the
other day as a result of a rich find on the
old Greenfinch lease, half a mile from Dorrie
Doolette’s old camp and not far from the
spot where 9| years ago a few excited news-
paper reporters gazed into an alleged golden
hole. The country was staked for miles by
the Proprietary co. and others, but by the
time pegging was finished it was found* that
the discovery was only a small pocket, and
the rush aßruptly ended.
Ajax North, Daylesford (Vic.), got off
the call list last month by capturing 20240 z.
gold from 61153 tons. Costs, in the face of
heavy development, were kept down at 18s.
yd. by that past-master at the job, Louis
Hansen. Having a bit of cash in hand from
gold premiums received, the co. intends to
poke about at the levels whence all the pay-
able stone is coming. So far, on the east
reet at No. 7, the shoot followed in the north
drive carries good gold in a make from 50 to
60 feet long, with the reef from to 6 feet
wide. The reason of this enrichment may
be the slide met beyond this point, as not
only is good stone above and below the fault
at Ao. 7, but it has carried down to No. 8.
. ma in shoot is 6to 8 feet wide, with
a slide in the face all the way. Veins or
droppers strike off into the country, giving
sloping material for a width of over 35ft’
bo there is the prospect of another run of
divs. for Ajax North.
A big band of pug at Cock's Pioneer,
Lldorado (\i C .), not only got the dredge
into a stiff corner, but wiped out 150,000
cub. yds. of the northern section of the
gutter as unpayable. The 50ft. and 70ft.
noois were pinched out, and the ground be-
came so tough that it took 2f tons of
explosives to blast a way through into
fJOT 7 aS i h - c-ini lere J alues jumped from
10.149 d. to 10.840 d., and enabled Hugh Fal-
coner to close the half-year with £10,300 of
profits. Of course, the premium on gold
helped. The co. is very comfortable at
present: its liquid assets amount to £37 237
its liabilities £13,395.
Government-geologist Hills lias completed
his examination of the Read-Rosebery
follow!' sums HP ore in sight as
Proved Probable Total
„ . Ore (tons). Ore (tons). (tons).
Rosebery .. 1,050,000 720,000 1,770,000
Hercules . . ,->30,000 156,000 686,000
' ' 100 ’000 24,000 124,000
Aoith Tas. . . 10,000 10,000
S. Hercules . . 5,000 5,000
f Total . . 1,680,000 915,000 2,595,000
The ore proved has an average grade of
silver. 9.600 z.; lead, 7.40 p.c.; zinc, 27 30
p.c.; with about 2dwt. gold. The deepest
ore so far located is at 260 ft. below the
Ao. 4 level m the Hercules, and its aver-
age grade is: Silver, 13.700 z.; lead, 18 40
p.c-.; zmc, 43.60 p.c.; and about sdwt. gold.
Altogether the deposit, which is over seven
miles in length, has produced 295.737 tons
ore worth £383,416, no allowance for the
/me content being made. If recoveries such
as are obtained at Broken Hill are pos-
siMe the value of the deposit, on the basis
ot piesent-day prices of metals, will be
JP^oximatdy: Gold. £1,040.000; silver!
§«; js.
£32,890,000. This gives the co. ore of an
average value of £l2 6s. per ton. The job
of getting the metal out of the ore is the big
problem; but either the flotation or the
electrolytic process, or, perhaps, a combina-
tion ot the two, is expected to do the trick.
Ihere is no known method of maintaining
the market. *
* *- * *
Mount Jasper, Hazelwood (Tas.), is out
with a proposal to add £lO per share calling
power to its little register of 2379 £2O
shares. Not that chairman Mills expects to
by further prolonged
calls. Irom his recent visit to the mines
he forecasts that “substantial profits should
be made within four months from now.”
I rank rowelhs advice was to give this cop-
pei show to the crows; but a good deal has
happened since his visit to the field. Mills
apparently has another make of ore up his
the P ublic has long since lost
raith in the mere promises of Jasper. It
won t believe now till it sees.
From a Bulletin man in the Speck
Welfare work, high wages and close co-operation
with the Repatriation Department have enabled Mt.
Lyell to improve its labor supply sufficiently to run
a, second furnace. The latest four weeks’ run saw
tons ore handled, producing 1 :
Approximate
Recovery Value
per ton of per ton of
CoDDer aa a + Crude Ore. Crude Ore.
Oofd " ilt tonS - 2.77 p.c. £3 6 6
■ • 461 0 - o.s7dwt. 2 3
Silver . . 16,9180 z. 1.060 z. 7 0
„ Total £3 15 9
Recovery of the copper would be about 70 p.c.,
so that the run-of-mine ore was about 4 p.c. cop-’
per. Of the tonnage smelted 5850 tons were from
North Mt. Lyell, indicating a heavy draft on the
high-grade ore of the lower levels, the Mt. Lyell
ore being drawn on merely as a tonnage filler. So
far 1895 tons blister have been produced this year.
The Power and Metallurgical Co. has decided not
to proceed with the purchase of the old Jupiter, one
of the Read-Rosebery mines, but is taking up the
Comet, at Dundas, for the supply of ore for electro-
lytic production of spelter by the Gillies process at
Llectrona. Ore reserves at the Jupiter are estimated
at about only 3*ooo tons, averaging’ up to 27 pc
zinc, and the country rock is hard, making develop-
ment work costly. Transport difficulties and low
tonnage available make the property unsuitable for
feeding works at a distance.
The Mines Department is undertaking a complete
geological survey of the Mt. Bischoff and Mt. Bis-
choff Extd. mines and the surrounding district.
Geologist Reid is to have charge, and the work
should revive some interesting and debatable points,
especially on the big mine, where the advocates of
detrital as against deposit origin have agreed to
differ for many years. If Reid can find promise of
pay ore at depth, he will do good work for the
district, as both old shows are looking frail.
Govt.-geologist Reid gives Mt. Peiion a fighting
chance. The lodes are small (about 14in.), but are
persistent, and have been proved for over 500 ft. in
length by 30Oft. in depth. Grade is said to average
about 4 p.c. wolfram and i p.c. tin. Transportation
costs will be high, but should be offset to some
extent by cheap water-power.
Great things are expected of the Royal George
now that suction-gas power has been installed. The
ore shoot is a dvke-like formation, persistent and
extensive, with remarkably even values, though low
grade (about .45 p.c. recovery). It is an ideal ore
body for cheap and economical stoping. All mill
water is pumped from the St. Paul river, a costlv
item even under the best of power conditions.
Resumption of operations at the Devon silver-lead
mine, with further development on the three lodes,
is proposed. The lodes have been proved for a
length of 400 ft., but are narrow and in a hard
porphyry. The ore is high in lead, with low silvei
contents, making it specially suitable for white-
lead manufacture. Transportation to the railway is
said to be £5 per ton—a big load for a small
proposition to carry.


THE TOSS.
Publicists predict that the future struggle for world-supremacy will be between the white races and Asia.


THE
Union Trustee Company
of Australia Limited
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees,
etc.
New South Wales: Victoria : Queensland
The only Trustee Company having
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFJCE —15 O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
Iv.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Hon. H. Y. Bra.ldon,
M.L.C., F. B. S. Falkir.cr, James Kidd, V/. H.
liackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan Sinclair.
V Y. a. WATSON. JOHN MAIR.
Aooi.tant Manager. Manager.
CALL OK SEND FOR COMPANY'S BOOKLET.
or
You can HEAR, and
we prove it by posting
,you an easy-to-wear
Acousticon
ON 10 DAYS’
FREE TRIAD.
No deposit, obligation, or expense. Over
330,000 delighted users, including the Prime
Minister, Mr Hughes. who has heen using
the '‘Aeousticon" for more than five years!
lamsonlJ^Co.
102 Dakingf House. SYDNEY
Otderfleet, Col ins St.,MELB,
N.Z.: John Procter, 200 High. St., Chrutc’h.
W.A. .• U. Lilttc A Co., 801 'llay Street, Perth.
EDGEWORTH
Smoking Tobacco.
m..
1]
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfIINQ ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CHEESEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNIS
LINSEED
OIL
The working pressman will have plenty of
advocates in the N. S. Wales Assembly.
Tom Mutch, Vol. Molesworth and Billy Ely
are tried A.J.A. officials. Mutch was chair-
man of the N. S. Wales District, Molesworth
holds that post, and Ely was vice-president
of the whole organisation. All are Labor
men, and Molesworth was a New Australia
pioneer, having gone there as a small person
with his father.
From the Federal Gallery:—
I see a bright future before Massy Greene. He
has intelligence, energy and character, and the
gift of keeping his voice much cooler than his hair.
Old hands who heard him introduce the new tariff
were struck by the matter-of-fact flow of his dis-
course and the polite afternoon-tea manner with
which he answered inquiries. Many another young
Minister might have been inflated by the occasion,
and, at any rate, would have found the wind for
a swelling peroration, but Massy’s finale, loaded with
patriotic visions, seemed to carry more force by
COLONEL ECCLEB SNOWDEN, M.H.A,
Mayor of Hobart—as seen by Velasquez .
reason of his quiet note of sincerity. He inciden-
tally mentioned that the tariff was the work of a
devoted staff, and he established a fine precedent
in Ministerial behavior by handing out the bouquets
to his underlings and keeping not a single bloom
tor himself. By that act alone Greene grew by
cubits in comparison with some colleagues one could
name.
There is word from S’Africa of the death
of Tom Hassell, a former N.S.W. Minister
for Lands, whose sudden disappearance was
ascribed (with a grin) to the alleged fact
that an uncle had left him a lot of money.
Tom. who was a fine figure of a swanking,
bearded bushman when first he came to town
in 1880, represented the black-soil plains in
the Assembly, and ran an agency business
with W. S. Dowel, member for Tamworth.
It was Bill Lyne who gave him a portfolio
in 1890.
The luck that brings a royal flush to a
man who speculates on a poker machine
for the first time belongs to McTiernan. one
of the Labor candidates for the Sydney
Western Suburbs. This was his first attempt
to get into politics, and he not only won,
but. being the only lawyer in the Labor
ranks, he has great prospects of an early
Ministerial job. He had a brilliant school
career, but hasn’t been long enough at the
Barto yet climb very high. It was only in
1915 that he finished his law course, being
one of the two first-class honors men of that
year.
“Lou”: Bob Carroll, one of the new
Queensland M s.L.C., served his time with
the A.U.S.N. Co., and I next found him on
the Amalgamated Society of Engineers’
Council in S’Africa. Later on he came to
Bananaland and started pineapple-grow'ng,
but just as the pines were beginning to look
profitable he flung it up and went back to the
trade. Always an active unionist, when the
society was look-
ing around for a
provisional organ-
iser up North it
selected him, and he
still holds that job.
He helps to direct
the Standard in
its struggle with
the three other
dailies in Bris-
bane, and holds his
union’s end up on
the Labor Council.
Although one of
the best arbitra-
tion-case advocates
in the State, he is
a direct actionist,
and celebrated the
Russian Revolu-
tion by waving the
crimson banner in
Brisbane Domain
and doing three or
four months i n
gaol.
CAREY, sec. of the
N. S. Wales
Labor party.
South Aus. has lost three Parliamentary
veterans in as many months—E. T. Smith,
J. H. Howe and now Thomas Burgoyne. The
last was the oldest of the lot, being very
nearly 93. He had been in Australia since
1849. Starting as a builder, in 1853, he put
up the first house in Port Augusta, and then
built tanks and woolsheds all over the back-
country. In due time he was town clerk
of the Port, then mayor, editor of the P.A.
Dispatch, and finally M.P. for the d'strict.
It was he who formed the country party which
held the balance of power for some years
before 1890. He was a member of various
Ministries, and once moved a motion wh oh
put C. C. Kingston out of office. Literature
was vs strong side-line, and when the 200-
odd “institutes” of the State were formed
into an association in 1910, he became its
first president. He held the record for age
in S.A. Parliament, having stuck to his seat
till defeated in a general election when he
was 88. His son is a newspaper man in
Perth.
A new recruit to Sydney Law School is
Adrian vjurlewis, only son of Judge and Mrs.
Curlewis (Miss Ethel Turner), who has.
just matriculated. He was captain of the
Church of England Grammar School last
year and winner of the Brian Pockley Mem-
orial prize for all-round ability and leader-
ship : his sports record was a fine one.
A good old Groper passed out with the
death of William Paterson in Perth. The
first manager of the W. A. Agricultural
Bank, he was also the soul of that institution
for the - propping up of the new cocky.
Paterson was oorn in the Golden State about
73 years ago, and he knew its agricultural
areas like the back of his hand. He was a
biv man in stature and heart, and d'dn’t
know how to put on dog. The struggles and
failures of the infant wheat-growing industry
of the West left their mark on big “Bill.”
but he was not the type to throw up the
sponge, and his faith remained undiminished
to the end.
A cand'date whose mozzle was in was
R. E. O’Halloran at Eastern Suburbs.
Sydney. People who drew up alphabetical
“how to vote” cards assumed that Oa (Oakes)
came before Oh (O’Hallomm and nut them
in that order. The Nationalists’ advice made
it “Oakes 1” and “O’Halloran 14.” But
some unlettered authority reversed the order
of names-on the ballot-paper: so people who
mechanically copied down their column
of figures made O’Halloran 1 and Oakes 14,
and at the first count O’Halloran was IUSU
above the nearest of his Labor colleagues—
third while they were seventh, eighth and
ninth.
Prime Minister Hughes, who doesn’t like
paying other Hughes’s debts, has found it
necessary to issue a notice 'that he won’t
stand the racket for tick given to anybody,
whether relationship's claimed or not, except
on his written order.
The pedestrianism of Pat McGarry, which
won him the iUurrumbidgee seat years ago,
d.d not save him this election, although he
practised it till the last. During the cam-
paign, having an appointment to keep at
Peak Hill, he walked 24 miles from Bogan
Gate to Parkes to get there.
If little Davy Hall is dragged from his
sh'p by the exuberant Labor party before he
reaches the safety of the N S. Wales Agent-
General’s office in London, there's one trifle
they can’t strip him of. About an hour
before he sailed from Sydney he was handed
a cheque for £lOOO and a bit over from ‘‘a
dozen business men.” The philanthropists
were rounded up at the Hotel Australia by
Huge D. Mclntosh, M.L.C.,. and Alderman
Brooks handed over the paper. The aider-
man cohgratulated Davy on being a poor
man. But he didn’t go into figures.
Bishop Cleary, R.C. prelate of Auckland,
is doing more than any other Maorilander
for the aeroplane. Some time ago he sailed
away on a seaplane from Auckland to
Whangarie. Now he has just returned home
after a swift swoop upon Whakatane and
Opotike, in the Bay of Plenty. The aero-
plane carried mails as well as a bishop, and
the cookies came miles to meet the first ship
of the Bay of Plenty airline. Cleary rubbed
in some warm remarks about the scarcity
of benzine, the oil trusts and the raw M.L.
material which is going to waste. The re-
turn to Auckland took three hours. By
land transit it takes 24 in favorable cir-
cumstances.
Jeremiah Donovan, who was one of the
recent big contingent that invaded Banana-
land's House of Fossils, was a revenue offi-
cer before he became barman and pub-
keeper. Ten years ago he w\as hot on the
trail of sly-grog sellers who infested the
northern and central-western districts. He
rhasqueraded along the railway encampments
as a cripple selling tooth-brushes and things,
and he rarely missed. Once, when proceed-
ing in a buggy up one of the mountain ranges
of the North, Theodore came upon the lame
pedlar going in the same direction. Theo-
dore alighted, and, moved to pity, gave
Donovan his seat. The joke wasn't divulged
by Jerry till recently, when Theodore gave
him another seat and more free rides.
After many years Victoria has another
outlaw, duly made so in legal form. Lieut. -
Governor Irvine signed the order last week.
Anybody may now shoot him on sight. Curi-
ously enough the sentence of outlawry is
drawn up under the Forest Act. The subject
is a bushranger at the head of Meyer’s Creek.
He is a black and white bull.
Richard Allen, the head of the Flinders-
lame house which was roasted by General
McCay, chairman of the Vic. Profits Com-
mission, for charging 13s. 6d. for Marrick-
ville tweed suppl-ed by the mill at 6s. 6d.,
is a Melbourne City Councillor and a tre-
mendous “loyalist.” If you looked closely
enough you nught even discover that he wears
a Union Jack vest.
Sam Copley, the erstwhile Westralian who
is now England’s most daring financier, has
a daughter who goes to business with the
reputed millionaire at his office in Queen
Victoria-street, London. As she is her
father’s right-hand man, and Copley
delights in a 16-hour day, she has no soft
job. Her ambition is to be a woman banker,
and Sam intends to see that she owns a
punch when she enters that ring.
Weigall, the coming Governor of South
Aus., thinks that agricultural State just the
one for him. Practically all his life has been
devoted to farming, and, sitting in the
Commons for an agricultural constituency,
he has spoken in the House only on that
subject. He holds a record as the only
student to take the gold medal of Ciren-
cester Agric. College when under 21.
James Ikin, who gave up living at Hobart
the other day after 87 years in the Speck,
was one of the last of the old brigade. He
was a shipwright in Hobart 60-odd years
.ago when whaling was booming, and joined
in the BenrPgo go’d rush. Later he looked
for gold in Maoriland when Gabriel’s Gully
broke out, but did not find much. He was
the last survivor of one of the first eight-
oared crews that ever rowed on the Der-
went. A brother, Joshua, was captain of the
barque Guiding Star, the scene of one of the
grimmest old-time sea tragedies. Fever
gripped the crew -when she was on a voyage
from the Mauritius to Hobart with sugar.
She drifted derelict with her complement
of dead and dying till someone picked her
up and found that the only soul left alive
on was the carpenter. But the Guid-
ing Star sailed the seas for many years
after that.
General “Tommy” Griffiths, whom many
regard as the best soldier-administrator that
Australia possesses, is to be Administrator at
Rabaul. General Sellheim takes the job of
Adjutant-General. When the war was on
and it was essential to show results week by
week, Sellheim came to Australia and
Griffiths was made G.O.C. Administration in
London. His work was as brilliant as that
of Howse and White in their spheres, lie
could do priceless service to Australia in the
critical period which must follow the re-
organisation of
the Army sys-
tem ; but he is
a couple of years
behind Sellheim
in seniority. The
odd thing is that
the rules as to
seniority admit
ox exceptions or
breaches on
occasion. I n
Military
Order 114
(13/3/ ( 20)
White is
given a day’s
seniority over
Legge. The lat-
ter was a field-
officer before the
great S.O. put
his second pip
up.
BRIGADIER-
GENERAL
GRIFFITHS,
the new
Administrator
at Rabaul.
“Pieman” Smith, one of Banana!and’s new
M’s.L.C., was years ago the keeper of a
coffee-stall in Ed ward-street. had a
good corner stand and built up a variegated
clientele. One of his regular customers was
P. J. Leahy, who, on his homeward way
after a night sitting of the House, generally
pulled up at the caravan for a saveloy and
cup of coffee.
O’Brien, who won the Annandale seat for
Labor a few i\. S. Wales elections ago, cut
adrift from the city, and has his reward.
As the Parliamentarian of the Labor three
in the Murray, O’Brien was made the first
choice of the majority of local Laborites:
wherefore he has now a comfortable seat
where hi s constituents are not on his door-
step—an immense advantage in days when
five hundred a year is not the big thing it
looks to some of a man’s unfinancial con-
stituents.
Ihe Old Man of the Sea whom Sindbad
Massey has to carry is that stout Tory
Francis Bell. As Minister of Internal
Affairs and leader of the Upper House he
carries weight; yet he carries more weight
then these offices should justify, and the re-
sult is not always for the benefit of Maori-
land. Younger men in the Ministry find him
hard, and he lays down the law by and large
at Cabinet meetings. Francis Bell was born
at Nelson in 1851. His father was Speaker
in the House before him, and his eldest son,
who died in France, was M.P. for Welling-
ton suburbs.
Comrade J. O. Moroney, revolutionary
socialist, who for more than 30 years has
stumped Sydney Domain, is beginning to
despair. His hair was unstreaked brown
when he started to put the world right. His
roof is now white; but the world is still
askew. The old battler was a candidate for
a Balmain seat in the recent N. S. Wales
Assembly election, and scored just 57 pre-
ferences. After which he mounted his
stump and frankly confessed he had built
false hopes on the young men' whose “car-
cases” he had helped to save from conscrip-
tion. “I have come to the conclusion,” said
the Marxian Moroney, “that their carcases
were not worth saving.”
“Hugh Stone”: For more than 30 years
W. H. Waldon sat at the door of George
Walters’s church in Sydney and handed
out the hymn-books. But that was only one
hobby. Every Sunday afternoon, weather
reasonable, he was in Prince Alfred Park-
preaching the gospel according to Henry
George, and for what seemed half a century
he tried, as a member of the Sydney School
of Arts Debating Club, to make single-tax
converts of promising youngsters, from
Paddy Crick to Willy Holman. He had
neither wife nor child, and with an unsel-
fishness that characterised him throughout
life this humble tobacco-worker made all
neglected youngsters his own, and was a
pillar of the “brigade” which looks after
Sydney’s newsboys.
Charles Gavan Duffy was once returned
for the Vic. Leg. Assembly by a majority
of one vote. On visiting his constituents
subsequently he was received with special
warmth by an Irish elector. “And so,” sa d
Duffy, “you were one of my supporters?”
“No. sorr,” was the reply; “Oi was two av
’em!”
WILLIAM THE SILENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“When the interruption became louder than usual,
the Premier opened and closed his mouth, and went
through the form of oratory without uttering a word.”
For the future every candidate who’s anxious to
succeed
Should be silent on the platform, he should follow
William’s lead,
And he'll find that at the finish it’s the safest game
to play—
He should woo the coy electors in the pantomimic
way.
He’ll be fearless then of breaking every promise he
has made,
And of uttering misstatements he need never be
afraid ; i *
His virtues on a pedestal he freely may display
If he'll postulate entirely in the pantomimic way.
Nevermore need Mr. Beeby blab, or Mr. Holman
howl,
Nevermore will Mr. Storey voice the Opposition
growl;
They will make a graceful gesture when they’re
voting Yea or Nay,
And they’ll bow to Mr. Speaker in a pantomimic way.
The reporters of the Hansard staff will have an easy
time,
As they biograph the postures of the party panto-
mime ;
For every fiery orator will say his priceless say
And save his bleeding country in the pantomimic
way.
N.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


23
SR
vn.
7^
|
ft*
1
1 **S
r.yr
-.»»
£Bacc
£ loc
OB
83
ro£ACC°
at?.
iiy
E»
s
R
V-J
C46b
'EM&C3
Take enough with uou on your holidays
CIVIC
THE
STANDARD
\V»C


BEAUTY, LADIES, BEAUTY!
Beauty is everywhere a right welcome guest.
Beauty can afford to laugh at all distinctions.
As culture begets taste, taste begets beauty. Even
as music soothes the soul, so beauty soothes the
heart.
The thought of beauty lasts long after other things
have been forgotten.
Is beauty vain because it will fade? Then are
earth’s green robes and Heaven’s light vain.
The beautiful is like sunshine to the world.
A beautiful woman is a paradise to the eyes.
Personal beauty wins almost without anything else.
We must carry the beautiful with us or we find it
not.
The Lady Mary Wentworth-FitzWilliam,
The Viscountess Bridport,
The Countess of Rothes,
The Lady Sibyl Findlay,
The Dowager-Lady Barclay,
The Hon. Mrs. Errington,
Lady White,
and other ladies at Court, as well as all the leading
actresses of England, have testified to the harmless
purity and the excellence of
JOHN STRANGE WINTER’S TOILET
PREPARATIONS,
which have been awarded SIX GOLD MEDALS at
International Exhibitions in London, Paris and Rome.
You can buy them at any chemist’s or depart-
mental store, viz., Farmer’s, Civil Service, David
Jones’, Anthony Horderns’, Lassetter’s, Waters’,
Washington 11. Soul’s, etc., etc.
Hair Food (Oily) 3/9, (Non-Oily) 4/9, contains no
dye.
Dry Shampoo, 3/9. Lakshmi Lotion, 3/9.
Lakshmi Cream, 3/9. New Face Cream, 3/6 and 4/-
Powder (3 colors), 3/6. Soap, 3/6 box (3 cakes).
Dental Cream, 1/6. Carmine, 1/4.
Ortaie Marquise, 2/6. Curative Ointment, 2/6.
Send 3d. stamp for sample of Powder- (name the
tint) or Soap, or Face Cream, to John Strange
Winter, 26 Jamieson Street, Sydney ; or Taylor and
Colledge, Ltd., Charlotte Street Brisbane; or John
Strange Winter (Vic.) Co., 218-222 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
\Aeltoman
JsPEfLALTILS
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning S Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
j
E. BROWN <§ SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALE • OVER • THE • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
MINCHINBURY
“R.S.V.P.”: “Barney” Hall, of Melbourne
National Gallery, has suggested that certain
trees fronting and flanking three statues on
St. Kilda-road should be removed to provide
the Princelet with a clear view
of these works of art. There
are “many trees and only three
statues” —those of the’ late
Bobby Burns, Linlithgow and
Fitzgibbon. It is a quaint
desire for an artist to express.
Trees are trees, and the next
best thing to a tree in
the eyes of an artist
who is an artist is a
picture of a tree. The
same thing applies to
the human form and
its artistic representa-
tion. But, according
to Hall, the more or
less artistic represen-
tation of a human
form —any form, ap-
parently, even that of
a Fitzgibbon—should
be considered morq
agreeable to the artis-
tic or Royal eye than
a mere tree. It seems
a bunkish proposition
to those who love a
good tree as the
Almighty grew it, and are inclined to
giggle at the statue of a staid City Council
official in a marble flogger.
* * * *
“Rosalie”: I was carrying a dish of stew
in a hut at Weymouth when in walked my
dead cobber Jackson. The stew hit the table
in a heap, while I had a severe attack of
ghost shock. It was this way. My friend
and a dozen more of us were camped in an
old house just back of Lagnicourt, and hav-
ing gone out for a few minutes to admire
what was left of the scenery. I returned to
find that a Fritz mine had done its deadly
work. On the mangled remains of a man
whose face was shattered I found my
pal’s identification disc. I reverently buried
him, and put a cross over his grave. Nearly
48 hours later the real Jackson was dis-
covered, still alive, amongst the ruins. The
disc had been blown off him on to the other
man.
* * * *
“Mid-Channel”: Apropos the Digger’s
fine sense of honor (B. 25/3/’2O). Two
partners—-we’ll call them A and B—carried
on a business in N. S. Wales with head-
quarters in Maoriland. They were made
bankrupt, and exhaustive examinations cul-
minated in a criminal prosecution. Both
were acquitted. B enlisted and was killed.
A drifted to India or Siam and struck oil.
I hen he returned to Sydney, called casually
at the office of his official-assignee and
asked what it would take to pay all his
creditors 20s. in the £. He was told that
something under £2OOO would fill the bill so
far as he was concerned. “Never mind so
far as I am concerned—l mean the whole
lot, mine and my partner’s.” He was told
that £2400 would suit nicely. “All right.”
said A, “I’ll write you out a cheque.” He
wrote out the cheque and it was a good one.
Then he came to the court to clean things
up. The Registrar showered bouquets at
him. The sequestration order was dis-
charged, a bunch of creditors got the sur-
prise of their lives, and now Sydney Bank-
ruptcy Court reckons that some besides
those who enlisted deserve the Y.C.
“Spare Corporal”: Justice Wade, in sen-
tencing two men found guilty in’Sydney of
manslaughter, implied that “a callousness
and indifference to the value of human life”
was a thing to be expected of soldiers, who.
therefore, had in fairness to be given lenient
treatment. The fact that they had been
soldiers had been heaved into the evidence
by the men’s advocates, and the brand-new
Judge took it for granted that “amid the
horrors of war they had,become hardened,
with a callousness and indifference to the
value of human life, by daily association
with death.” Apparently it was nobody's
duty to put before the Court the details of
the men’s military service. One of them
had never been amongst the horrors of war.
lie got to Egypt with the early troops, but
committed crimes for which he was returned
to Australia as an undesirable. Re-enlisting
under another name, lie managed to hang
on to board and pay in camp in Australia
for some time before being sent away with
a reinforcement; and when the approach to
England made the horrors of War appear
dangerously close, he punched an officer—
for no reason, apparently, except the feeling
that clink was a better place than the line.
Released on the understanding that he was
going to France, this man managed to “swing
it” in England, and finally got himself re-
turned to Australia. His experiences of “the
horrors of war.” which Justice Wade says
made him callous, were nil. The other man’s
record is not brilliant either. Indeed, it
would be found, if their military records
were exposed, that a majority of the men
accused of violence and given pity on the
strength of their war service, had very little,
it any, actual service; and the appeal for
judicial sympathy is a fraud. I am convinced
SHE KNEW A CONFESSION WAS
COMING.
HUSBAND (reading the paper): “What fools
some men make of themselves!”
WIFE: “Note, John, what have you been
doing this time?”
that most of the men who did the hardest
fighting, so far from being rendered callous,
try to avoid all trouble that can be avoided :
they have experienced all the violence and
bloodshed that they want to see. Yet, be-
cause of the doings of alleged soldiers who
were a drag upon the A.I.F. and never saw
service—who, already criminals, adopted
khaki as a useful covering—the law-abiding
members of the A.I.F. have to suffer reflec-
tions such as those of this well-meaning but
precipitate Judge. The fault does not. how-
ever, lie so much with ’is Honor, who might
not unnaturally conclude that when a man
has been a soldier he has fought for his
country. The A.I.F. should be represented
when cases arise in which soldiers are
accused of offences, so that the interests of
the Australian Army might be watched and
defended. In some cases, where injuries
which the soldier has received may have
weakened his sense of responsibility, the rep-
resentative could assist the defence in making
the most of it; in other cases, he could
expose the actual service records of the men
charged, and prevent criminals from pleading
for leniency on the strength of the service
that other men. who are not criminals, have
given.
* * * *
_‘‘Qu|ck Dick”: “Poilu’s” yarn (B.
20/3/ 20) reminds me of a Frenchman we
met in the train on the way from Edinburgh
to London. We were discussing the Yanks,
PROVING THE RULE.
“Ah, to ell, when, you see a thing you're got
to believe it.”
“Not always. The longer I look at you the
less notice I take of you.”
who had just arrived. “I wonder what he
thinks of them,’’ 1 said, nodding across
towards Jules. But I didn’t wonder for
long. He thought they were “a panto-
mime.” We seemed surprised at his French,
so he told us. He was a Scotchman who
was turned down in England in T 4, and
went across to France. He couldn’t speak
the language then, but he learned, and had
a. commission when we met him. I remem-
ber another Frenchman giving some Digger
Pioneers the biggest surprise they got in the
war. His horse had bolted with him and
galloped past the Pioneers, who were spell-
ing. They yelled at him, and the horse went
faster, and the Frenchie’s cap came off.
He pulled up in a hundred yards and came
back. Then he dressed those astonished
Pioneers down in 24-carat Australian. He
was Jacques Playoust, the Sydney wool-
buyer. who was called up in 1914 to join
the French infantry. After two years or
so of Verdun and other unsociable spots he
was appointed an A.I.F. interpreter. The
Australian this splendid fellow hadn’t learned
in his 2G years of Australia wasn’t worth
learning.
* * * *
“Hamer”: If the N. S. Wales Soldiers’
Preference Act is not a dud it will have to
shake up some of the Church authorities.
too. A padre, returned by a
recent transport, found that only
a few curacies were available
when he looked for reinstate-
ment ; and his bishop told him
that work might be found for
him—if he had private means!
Instead of private means the ex-
chaplain has a family ; so he is
looking for a secular job, which
isn’t a good advertisement for
the Church. Apart from the
injustice of this treatment of a
man who, in his own way, has
given service, the religious or-
ganisation which offers work to
a man whose qualifications must
include an income is an anomaly
in a democratic country. The
plain name for it is sweating.
Melbourne Public Library’s latest acqui-
sition is a little lot of manuscript, pre-
sented by Col. Evans, of Hobart, relating
to Batman’s expedition from Tasmania to
Port Phillip, as representative of the Port
Phillip Association, in 1835. The docu-
ments have a bearing on the rival claims of
Batman and Fawkner to the parentage of
Melbourne. The late Bonwick, who has
been accepted as chief authority, on the
strength of his stodgy “History of Port
Settlement,” held a brief for Bat-
man. Two of the letters now presented to the
Melbourne Library were written in 1835
and both of them prove that, if Fawkner
was a month or two later than Batman in
purchasing land from the natives at the
place (Doutigala) which presently got the
name of Melbourne, he at any rate shaped
from the beginning more like a founder of
the future city than Batman, who held a
roving commission from a syndicate that
eventually styled itself the Geelong and
Doutigala Co.
* * * •
“Jobber”: The way the decorations were
handed out made us all
smile. I knew a chap
who was on Divvy Head-
quarters from the day he
enlisted. He was in no
stunt, and never fired a
shot at the enemy. But
for. being good ' cobbers
with the heads he got the
D.C.M. and M.M., and he
wore both ribbons! It
was the same with the
nurses. Two sisters left
Australia together early
in the trouble. One stayed
in Cairo, the other put in
a long stretch at Lemnos
in the winter. After that
she went down the Canal.
She had a rough spin at
both places. Then both
went to England. In the
fulness of time the girl
who hadn't been to Lem-
nos or the Canal was
asked —or ordered, which-
ever it is—to Bucking-
ham Palace to receive the
B.R.C. The other sister
came home without a
decoration. But she has
the love and admiration
of many Gallipoli men,
myself among the num-
ber. I have often won-
dered why the Federal
body of the Returned
Soldiers didn’t institute
a decoration of its own. It might not bo
too late even now.
* * * *
“The Moon’’: We wondered if they were
honeymooners. Opinions were divided, and
then one day we proposed a dip in the surf.
She wouldn’t. He would. She walked to
the very edge of the water with him, put her
arms round his neck, and kissed him good-
bye. There were no more guesses.
* * * *
“Bouragi” : Justice Gordon, of the Sydney
Divorce Court, has a lot of my sympathy.
He means well, but convention and red tape
hamper him. About the best judgment in
divorce I ever heard was delivered by one
of the old-time Papuan R.M.’s in Governor
le Hunte’s days. The lady respondent was
a big, gaunt lady of some 30 summers
(Papuan native reckoning), and the co-re. a
small, furtive youth of about 15. Petitioner,
a village constable, stated that he had sur-
prised the pair and, handcuffing them both,
had brought them to justice. The lady
pleaded duress of the co-re. The co-re. was
in a dreadful state of apprehension and “no-
savee”-ness. After consultation with the
petitioner the R.M. suggested a compromise.
If the lady would prove her bona-fides by
administering a hiding to the youth who,
she alleged, had assaulted her, the petitioner
would handsomely accept the explanation.
Also, the hiding would be the wages of sin
for the erring youth. With the aid of a
couple of police and a lawyer-cane the lady
THE FREAKS.
“I saw Dick with his wife at the theatre lasi
night.”
“Yes, isn't it remarkable — they're quite
friendly !”
handed out a trouncing that fully satisfied
her injured spouse and the pair departed
on the best of terms. The co-re. only
howled. But if ever a countenance said
“Perfidy, thy name is woman !” it was his.
(Continued on Page 18.)
APRIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With muddy boots dull April conies
And tramples all the sunbeams down;
The rain with leaden lingers drums
Upon the windows of the town.
The winter stalks around the earth,
And summer, with a coo of mirth,
Flees from the dreary clown.
He sets his standard in the skies,
A gloomy thing of shreds of clouds;
And peers with rheumy, sodden eyes
Upon the city’s happy crowds;
He hates to see their careless fun
And, jealous of their king, the sun,
He hides him in grey shrouds;
To grey old hones he breathes of death,
He takes the flavor from brown beer;
He snorts and at his evil breath
The white yachts skim away in fear;
Shouting a cold and mournful song
With fierce wind-whips he drives the • throng
Whom foaming surf held dear.
Black magic works upon our hearts
As with his fingers long and cold
He hands to us our winter parts.
We whom the Spring left young and bold
Are bidden sit and read and croak —
This grey, sad stranger is the bloke
Who makes a man grow old.
VICTORIA.
ORMOND.


ĵ
■ .
*?}>/
.c. s
.
wm.
i
'
> . . . , w**' r
.
J
Si ... * ,y}4r
.. -
'S'' 4 " ,'
si
J C mc?
I n El\E,
AN D
n
■■
RADNFT f.l AW DIIRRFD TO ID
DAKHuI ULAjj KUDDLKvVLr
Founders of the Rubber Industry' in Australasia
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE. PERTH. BRISBANE. HOBART. CHRISTCHURCH. AUCKLAND. LAUNCESTON.


Quality
In nothing does Quality count so much as
in Diamonds. STEWART DAWSON’S
are the largest cash purchasers of precious
stones in the Commonwealth, and the
stability of their Diamond Ring Values is
recognised by thousands of clients.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS.
Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
PERTH (Aust.).
REGENT STREET (LONDON).
STEWART DAWSON’S
Largest Jewellers of the Empire.
GB74 —Fine
Quality Diamond
Cluster Ring, set in
Platinum and 18-et.
Gold, £2O
K3ll—Dainty Two-
Stone Diamond
Crossover Ring-, set
in Platinum and
IS-ct. Cold,
£lO/10/•
K3s2—Fine Quality
Diamond Crossover
Ring', set in Pure
Platinum and 18-ct.
Gold, £l7/10/-
K3s7 —Fine Pearl
and Diamond
Cluster Ring, set in
Pure Platinum and
IS ct Gold,
K432—New Style
Diamond Cluster
Ring, set in Pure
Platinum and IS-et.
Gold, £l5/10/-
K 430—Beautiful
Design, set with
First Quality
Diamonds in Pure
Platinum and 18-et,
SfcSfSlo. . t-si
m
K9‘23 —New Design
Cluster Ring, Finest
Quality Diamonds,
set in Pure Platinum
and 18-ct. Gold,
£35
Diamonds.
Tall at any of the Stewart Dawson
Establishments and inspect their beauti-
ful assortment of Diamond Ring Designs,
which is continually being added to.
Remember only high-grade stones have a
permanent value.
All Diamonds set in Pure Platinum.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS.
Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRIST-
CHURCH, DUNEDIN (N.Z.).
HATTON GARDEN (LONDON).
STEWART DAWSON’S
Write for Latest Catalogue.
“John B.": While on the Plain before
going to Fiance, the Divvy was re-
viewed by George Rex. Major X was one
of the officers, and was tremendously
obtrusive. Months after, when we were in
France, the Colonel visited the front-line
trenches, a haunt rarely sought after by the
Major. The Old Man’s inquiry for the miss-
ing crown gave the battalion wag his oppor-
tunity. "No. sir,” he said. “I ain’t seen ’ini
since the King’s review.”
* * * *
“Bromide”: How about this as an example
of multiple hits by a rifle-bullet? On
Walker’s Ridge. Gallipoli, a pal of mine was
aiming at four Turks in the opposite trench
when Johnnie got in first with a good shot.
The bullet travelled along the Digger’s barrel,
hitting tin' first two lingers of his left: hand;
thence p passed through the trigger finger
ol his right and finally badly smashed up his
lower jaw. Repairs to the latter are still
being carried out at Randwick—almost five
years later.
Melbourne County Court has heard an
action of interest to the suburban lady of
either sex who would love to scratch the
BROTHERS ARE ALWAYS KIND.
SISTER SUSIE : “Everyone says I was the
belle of the ball!”
BROTHER BILLJIM : “U m—but nobody was
interested enough to give you a ring!”
cat next door. Noel Murray, a former mayor
of Caulfield, was defendant. His neighbor is
Louis McNab, also a dabbler in municipal
politics. Murray’s cypresses drooped across
the boundary into the old dominie’s air-space,
and as the overflow was not removed on
demand McNab applied for damages and an
injunction. The diversion of letting the
matter go to court cost Murray a shilling
damages, with costs, and he also had to
promise to be good in future and keep his
hedge tidy. -
CUT OUT FOB THE JOB.
“Mae is surely not going to marry that living skeleton, of a man. He’s nothing but
skin and bones!”
“Oh, rather! lie'll make a rattling husland.”
“Jobber”: Narrow shaves? I know
another. Jacko pumped a bullet into the
back ol a Digger’s neck on the Peninsula.
It went in about a quarter of an inch from
the spine, and came out about the same dis-
tance from the jugular vein. The patient
was long the doctor’s prize exhibit to visit-
ing surgeons. I saw two chaps later with
similar wounds; out both of these were
paralysed down one side.
* * * #
Ex-Dig. : The “blood money*’ is coming
along, the papers being all
ready, and the paying
of the bonds will speed up
the termination of the
work of the Repatriation
Department. In a small
way the Department will
have to continue for years,
perhaps decades; neverthe-
less a question already
ari s e s as to . what the
Commonwealth is going
to do with the Re-
patriators—-the men it has
employed in the work of
interpreting the tangled
regulations. Mostly they
are men with some war
disability, who, anxious to
get back to a civil job,
accepted this, though the
pay was poor, rather than
remain on the sustenance
queue; and they are mostly
competent, for men who
proved inefficient were soon
fired. But they have missed
the chances of satisfactory
reinstatement in civil life
which they have assisted to
pass along to others, and
il they are merely fired out when the
activities of the Department subside, they
will need repatriation themselves. It would
be a fair thing for the Commonwealth to
give them a first preference in other branches
of the Commonwealth service.
“Artist” throws his palette knife :—•
Three more pictures acquired under Felton bequest
terms were hung in the Melbourne National Gal-
lery last week. “Walton Bridges,” by Turner, has
little of the qualities that make the masterpiece—
relief and light. Most probably this is due to the
fact that Turner was sometimes a very unscientific
observer, and was arrogant in attempting to depict
a scene so brilliant as to be a long way outside
the range of the medium. It was this impudence
of Turner’s that Whistler never ceased to denounce.
Unlike Corot, who was satisfied with a few little
trees, Turner hgs attempted to paint the whole
countryside. As a result “Walton Bridges” is sadly
lacking in unity. At the same time it proves
him a realist, who took no liberties with Nature’s
forms or colors. In fact, the wonderful, quiet,
natural refinement of the color and a clumsy sin-
cerity are the redeeming features of the work, as
well as being lessons to our Australian “colorists.”
Our other example of the Master is up to the
“Bent Tree” standard, despite the way Hall has
hung it. The mockery of it all, though—the better
work was presented (after the trustees had refused
to buy it), and the inferior picture is the top-
priced one in the Gallery at £7250! The Palmez-
zano is a sincere work of a second-rate 15th-cen-
tury artist. Why buy stuff like this when there
are students (not Gallery students) doing much
better work to day in our own Australia? The
portrait by Allan Ramsay is one of that mediocre
artist s best things, and with such trustees at the
head of art affairs here we should thank God we
got nothing worse.
*■* * *
A Spring song in S. M. Herald
Vug. Lady, 27, gd. app.-, ref., meet Ret. Man, gd.
posn., v. mat. B„ G.P.O. No P.O, add.
The Office Impressionist chirps in reply :
O, lady yng., of gd. app., also ref.,
Vr. ad. I scan!
Staccato charms, sweet notes. in Love’s own clef,
How can I be to your allurement deaf?
I’ll gladly be yr. Dig. (late A.1.F.),
Yr, own ret. man!
* * * *
“Iltoni”: Even those two considerate
Sydney suicides (B. 4/3/’2O) hadn’t the
refinemeht of one of Adel-
aide. (“Adelaide for cul-
ture,” you remember.) lie
was a member of the Salv’-
army, and told his wife and
friends that lie intended to
skip to glory, but wanted to
cause them as little trouble
as possible. Also he pro-
mised his landlady that he
wouldn’t do the deed in the
house, because the mess
might reduce its letting
value. After bidding his
friends farewell, he walked
to the West Terrace Ceme-
tery, and said good morning
to a couple of gravediggers
as he entered the gates.
Later the attendants found
that he had shot himself on
the doorstep of the morgue.
He had evidently tried to
lay himself out on a slab
first, but discovered that
facilities of that kind
weren’t offered to really gentlemanly sui-
cides.
“Ex-Dig.”: While commercial flying is
still more or less in the air, some of
the enterprising young birds who have
taken to wings as a trade, but have not
struck regular jobs, are looking for ways
of making a crust. Stunting for advert is-
ing firms helps a hit, hut there isn't much
in it, and it is rather frowned on. Bathurst
Show was asked to accept the services of
some fliers who wanted the privilege of charg-
ing for flights plus £25 to cover expenses:
but the officials turned down the suggestion
of the £25. In spite of that the airmen will
be on the ground, and on nearly every show-
ground where there is a prospect of earning
a few pounds. (liven proper supervision!
especially of the landing-places, this scheme
is excellent; for public confidence in the ’bus
that travels sky routes will thus be spread,
and the more air-’buses we have the better
our chance of defending ourselves.
* * * *
“Roundsman”: John Hops on night
rounds in the livelier parts of Fitzroy and
some other Melbourne suburbs get quite
unconcerned about a little casual shooting. A
belated pressman was passing the time of
morning on a corner with one of them when
a couple of revolver shots rang out. “Good
God,” said the civilian, “someone’s being
killed!” “Oh; no,” said John calmly, “pos-
sibly injured, but not killed. It takes, we
find, at least six shots to kill a man in
these parts.”
* * * *
“Ivopai”: A Vic. provincial branch of the
Royal Society, of St. George is hard hit.
Its constitution provides that the society
shall dine once per year—it provides for
other things, of course, but nothing in* im-
portance to approach this—and that the
menu shall be “English,” which means roast
beef, Yorkshire pudding, roast goose. Brit-
ish beer, plum pudding and a number of
other edibles suitable to June in Patagonia.
The catering price for such a feast this
year is something staggering, and the unfor-
tunate Royalists do not know what to do.
At the rate quoted only a few softgoods-
mon, woollen manufacturers and slaughter-
men could buy tickets, and what would
happen to the Empire if the menu failed
to be English? Rather than put such a
slight on the Old Army Contractor, the
branch is thinking seriously of disbanding
till the cost of living drops.
* * * *
“T. Tote”: I was entering up the names
and dates of birth of the new scholars in
a Vic. school. In one family of nine the
intervals between birthdays were three
months, nine months, two years, five days,
10 months, two years, 14 months and ’ll';
months. I sent a note home to see if the
list of dates was correct. Mother’s reply
was short and to the point: “Some are dad’s,
some are mine, and some are ours.”
* * * *
“Karim Khan”: The wealthy Persian is
as careful of his complexion as a society
beauty, and seldom ventures out without a
parasol. We thought Sirdar Amyad, boss of
Bijar, was going over the odds a bit when
he strolled into our camp one day carefully
shaded by a Huge, black brolly; but we might
have forgiven him that if he hadn’t appeared
amongst us soon afterwards on a snow-white
Arab stallion, full of blood and breeding,
holding in his left hand the reins of a cruel
Eastern bridle, and in his right the silver
handle of a big, blue, open sunshade.
* * * *
"\ ineleaf” : It was while we were at Salis-
bury. The visitors included a benevolent old
gent, of an inquiring turn of mind, and the
questions he asked about Australia would
fill a book. He was particularly interested
in our trees. “And I understand there are
a number of different kinds of wattles?”
“Oh. yes.” he was assured, “there’s the
Golden, the Silver, the Cootamundra” and so
?. n '- <l And which is considered the best?”
“Well.” chimed in the battalion hardcase.
our favorite is the wattle-y’ave”! He was
sport enough to take the hint.
AN EASY ONE.
SUNDAY-SCHOOL TEACHER : “Now. Bobbie,
who is it that though we have never
actually seen we know is always with
vs, because of the evidences of His work
all around?"
SMART PUPIL : “Please, miss—the profiteer."
THE BULLOCK DRIVERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘‘i, very Creek myth had a religious significance
and a practical bearing on life."— Sometoctu . some -
Wfl CYC.
Oid Cronus slept within his cave,
His thunders just beyond his reach,
Mis snores were like the seventh wave
That breaks at midnight on the beach.
1 grasped his lightnings by the hilt,
Red lightnings barbed with jagged fate;
“Now, dad,” I said, “the woe is split"-
I made him eat a cwt!
lie coughed and sneezed. I held him fown
And fed him flame for half an hour;
Am! then 1 carried off his crown
And swamped him in a thunder shower.
I climbed Olympus to the top,
And sat upon a hump of snow.
"Gee up, old earth," I said; “don'l slop!”
I stirred its axis with my toe.
“Gee back there, Asia! Come ’ere, Greece!
Lay fo it, Thrace, and mind your horn !
Ilup, Persia ! Asslmr, mind your peace !
Keep your long snout from Egypt’s corn 1
“Crack with the thunders, Sparta! Crete!
t Get up, you rows! ’Tain’t time lo dream.
Now, lift her j Athens, use your feet!
II - /.ens, not (’minis, has the team!"
Old Cronus, crawling strike on strike,
Sees no horizon to the plain;
The bullocks do as bullocks like,
But Zeus may fiqd his punch again.
x.s.w.
CURSE O' MOSES.


Meg'gitt Limited’s
SPECIALISED STOCK FOODS Department have
pleasure in that they will have a staff of
experts in attendance at their stands, Nos. 51
and 161, at the Royal Agricultural Show.
A full range of @ produ<fts will be displayed, and our representatives
will be glad to explain the uses of our
TONIC MEALS and © SPECIALISED STOCK FOODS.
Our Mr. McEachran, M.R.C.V.S., will be at Stand No. 161 in the cattle sales ring,
and will gladly answer any questions pertaining to the feeding and breeding of all
classes of stock. His advice on the prevention and cure of Common Ailments
and Diseases of Live Stock is at your disposal free.
Have your Stock Feeding problem explained by a qualified expert of twenty years
standing, merely for the asking.
Affents—Messrs R S. Exton & Co., Queen Street, Brisbane; Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourke street,
Melbourne; Messrs Clarkson, Limited, Bundle Street, Adelaide; Messrs. W. Adams & Co., Ring Street, erth;
Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co., Hobart and Launceston.
ft;rther particulars
STOCK FOODS DEPARTMENT A.
DNS£B«I*H
m
i
nEOOITT
eboyonthebag
quamntees quality ”
e
HEAD OFFICE KING ST SYDNEY(^^rks-.PaTranxatta)
GGi
IjNSKDOIIMEIH
m
,( lthe hot/ on the hao
quarantees qualify


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
ISO PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-800-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS' FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
01
■S3 a
VX 'Vx
Hotel
TARIFF
12'- pep Day
6 r 6 Bed& Bpeakfas^
C.R.Kerr*
Pr»opr»ieh>r»
yd Melbourne /
WHISKY
TH eTOPNOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Murkah”: “Ida D.” (B. 4/3/’2O) asks
why lightning strikes a green tree in preference
to a dry one. The natural effort of lightning is to
leach the earth, and, for all its mighty power, it
chooses the path of least resistance. Dry wood is
an almost perfect insulator. A green tree, on account
of the sap, is a much better conductor. Regarding
the removal of the bark, it is a fundamental of
electricity that it commences to flow on the outside
of the conductor first, “soaking in” afterwards. In
the case of a high-frequency smash such as a light-
ning flash, this “skin effect” is very marked, the
current remaining in violent flurry on the surface.
The bark is simply exploded from the tree. For the
same reason people killed by lightning frequently
have the clothes stripped off them. I know of two
such cases, and, curiously, in both of them only
the left boot remained on the body.
MODESTY.
THE UNOSBER ONE: “Don't (hic) wove your
hand at me, conshable; you're (hie)
making me look (hic) conspicyhus."
“Oueyn”: That was merely a sucker-root
that “Kid-O” struck (B. 4/3/’2O). Nearly 30 years
ago miners at Rutherglen (Vic.) found a vine root
in the crack of a quartz reef 225 feet from the
surface. And even then it hadn’t reached the water
it was after.
“Adelaide”: Anybody ever eat alligator
nowadays? Adelaide Register records in its 50-
years-ago column an attempt to introduce the beast,
boiled, to the table in the Northern Territory. The
informant said: “Some seem to fancy it will become
a favorite dish with epicures. Several made a hearty
meal of it, but it was only by shutting my eyes and
endeavoring to forget what was being eaten that
I managed my share. Emu, kangaroo and buffalo,
and water-rats when one is very hungry, are not
to be despised; but I never before tried alligator,
and I think it will be a long time before I venture
it again.”
“Gelt” : The island of Nissan, which lies
between New Britain and Buka, is noted for the
great plenty of its native pigs. To my inquiries as
to the cause of the abundance an emaciated old chap,
clad in a smile and a home-
made pipe, held forth. In
the days “belong before” there
was a pig called Brutziengi.
He was a big pig, a very big
pig, and so ferocious that the
inhabitants were forced to
leave the island of Nissan in
canoes ; but at their departure
it was found there was not
sufficient room in the canoes,
so two old women were left
on the beach. Fear of Brut-
ziengi forced them to a
secluded part of the island,
where they planted bananas
and hastened their growth by
fanning the suckers with palm-
leaves, and very soon they had
an ample supply of fruit. Not
earing to be alone the two
women were anxious to have
children, and soon, by means
not explained, they gave birth
to sons. The boys grew
amazingly fast and were soon
adept with the spear and bow
and arrow. When they be-
came young men they encoun-
tered Brutziengi and were for-
tunate enough to kill him.
Word was sent by means of
the wooden drum to those who
had been forced to leave the
island, and they returned full
of wonderment at the tale
which the two women told
them. Some time later when
the dead pig was inspected
myriads of maggots were
found under the body, and
these became pigs. It was a
simple explanation, and my
cannibal friend deserved the
couple of sticks of tobacco
that I gave him for clearing
up the mystery.
“Leo Lear”: “Te Whare” (B. 19/2/20) is
wrong. Tiger-snakes can and do climb trees. Only
a few weeks ago 1 bashed one that was slithering
downwards from a fork of a rough-barked gum 6ft.
from the ground. Also, tigers have an unpleasant
custom of coiling up on the top of bracken fern.
They are ugly enough customers on the ground, but
when run against unexpectedly at eye-level they give
a Christian a nasty shock.
» * * *
“Zanthus”: A shark of a kind that the
oldest inhabitant had never seen before was recently
hooked on the coast of Westralia. It belongs to a
species found in Indian seas, but not before reported
from Australian waters. It is a man-eater, so if
the immigration continues Westralian bathers are in
for a livelier time. As a rule, the southern coasts
of W.A. are reckoned quite safe as far as sharks
go, though a citizen was badly mauled away down
south of Fremantle last year.
* * » »
“Toby C.”: Robert Kaleski once told a
yarn about a pet dingo which he taught to read
and write, but which was reluc-
tantly destroyed for attempting
to forge Kaleski’s signature; In
Ayr (N.Q.) there is a fox-terrier
which, in addition to its daily
occupations as a dog, its study
of fleas, foreign languages and
other dogs, is learning to use a
typewriter. The learned animal
has a fair knowledge of four
languages. His first owner was
a Russian, who in spare time
taught the terrier many tricks,
always addressing the hound in
with Ponto in his mother tongue.
The dog’s next boss was an
Italian, and Antonio conversed
with Ponto in his mother tongue.
Under Garibaldi’s tuition a few
more specialty acts were added
to the mong.’s repertoire. The
present owner is a Chow, who com-
municates with Ponto only in Cantonese.. The accom-
plished beast (the dog, not the Chow) long ago
learned English, and, of course, speaks in Morse
with his tail.
* * * *
“Six and Eight”: It is probable that the
scab disease referred to by “Mrs. Lance Rawson”
(B. 11/3/'2O) is never now heard of because of the
measures taken in the ’sixties to eradicate it. At
that time no less than four Acts of Parliament pre-
scribing precautions to be observed to prevent the
spread of the disease were passed in N. S. Wales.
For example, any person driving scabby sheep along
a road was liable to 12 months’ gaol without the
option of a fine, and seven years was the penalty
for wilfully communicating the disease. It is akin
to mange in dogs, and treating with arsenical dips
was the usual remedy, but that was not very success-
ful, and a vet. of the period, after lengthily detail-
ing the treatment, quaintly wound up with: “But
the most important thing is to know that your sheep
have not got it.” Sheep-owners, after their flocks
became infected, often, as “Mrs. Rawson” says,
abandoned all hope; and it is recorded that in
February, ’62, a Mr. Riddle, of Bumban station,
80 miles below Swan Hill (Vic.), on his flock of
MISUNDERSTOOD.
THE INSURANCE AGENT (writing a policy
on the seventh and latest addition): “I
expect you'll soon he having another
bonus, Mrs. Hennisy!”
MRS. HENNISY: “The saints forbid! Haven't
I enough trouble on me hands now?”
3780 sheep becoming infected, killed and burnt the
lot. A sequel to the scab plague occurred near
Bathurst in recent years. At Macquarie House
(once owned by that Lawson who with Blaxland
and Wentworth crossed the Blue Mountains) an old,
barn-like building was cleaned out. and the stuff
removed was rot put out of the reach of stock.
Horses, cattle and poultry soon died everywhere
around the place, and investigation showed arsenical
poisoning as the. cause. The oldest inhabitants
then remembered that during the scab scare the
buildings had been used for storing the arsenic
used in the preparation of dips for scabby sheep.—
P.S.: Some of the penal provisions before mentioned
might well be copied into present day Acts of Par-
liament dealing with those infanticides—some-
times called milk vendors—who adulterate the
kiddies’ food.
“Wonga Wallow”: I answer “Widgee” (B.
19/2/’2O) who asks, “Is Binghi a back number as
a tracker?’’ with tTiis, and anyone familiar with the
country around Westbrook (Q.) must allow it to be
a convincing contribution to the argument. A few
days ago the railway premises there were broken
into and rifled of money, postal-notes and stamps.
Oeorge Tyson, a Western abo. tracker, after patient
search picked up a faint impression between the
railway lines. After intent scrutiny of a minute or
two off he went across country difficult for tracking
but which seemed to him an open book. Here
turning off at a tangent and there moving almost in
a circle, he pushed on for some miles, until the
tortuous course ended at an outhouse at the church
opposite to the Westbrook farm-home for boys.
Under this outhouse the postal-notes and stamps
were found, arid arrests followed.
‘‘Two Seas” : The squatter usually held a
mortgage over the dummied selection. Even then
he was not always safe. I know of one big N.S.W.
North-West squatter who took a Domain dosser and
put him on a 2500-acre dummy selection. The
derelict had been a commercial broker before Jimmy
Hennessy gave him the k.o. lie got the land, and,
recognising it as the chance of his life, he buckled
into work and soon learned the business of wool-
growing. Doubtless the fact that the nearest pub
was 30 miles' away helped his reformation. When
he had served his five years and got his certificate,
he handed the squatter the amount of the mort
gage, with the interest, and stuck to the land. He
died a wealthy man, and is the nearest approach to
an “honorable fraud’’ this scribe ever struck —most
of the other dummies stuck to both cash and land.
The safest dummy was the old man that the boss
got out of the Benevolent Asylum. He was guar-
anteed by a doctor not to live more than a year,
and made a will in favor of the boss in return
for rations and unlimited rum and tobacco. I
have known him keep these in a cupboard made by
fitting shelves into the plain, pine coffin which had
been thoughtfully sent up with him.
* * * ,
“Sassafras”: “Kid-O” tB. 4/3/’2O) wants
to know how a quandong root 108 ft. long strikes
us. It runs a bad last compared with a fig root
growing on Blackall Range (Q.). This pursues
itself along a gully and is visible for 294 ft., just
a bit short of 44 chains. From then on it is lost
to sight underground. Not far from this specimen
a lawyer-vine was cut and stretched out to 312 ft.
* * * *
“Toby C.”: Snakes have been particularly
active and venomous in North Queensland this sum-
mer. Two fatal cases of bite have occurred in one
district within a few weeks. First, a native boy
of 10 or 12 was nipped on the leg when mushroom-
ing. Black Mary did her best, scarified the wound,
sucked it and sought the aid of white intelligence;
but she had forgotten to tie a ligature, and the
kid turned it in after seven hours. The next victim
was a lad of 17. He was bitten above the ankle,
and after fixing the ligature he attempted to
lacerate the leg; but the knife was blunt and his
pluck not up to concert pitch. He then
■sprinted a quarter of a mile to considt someone
about his trouble, and in the hurry the ligature
slipped below the bite. The lad dropped short of
the point he was heading for, and was dead in 30
minutes.
* * * *
“Gouger”: We left our North Q. camp on
the first day of the rainy season and were absent
three weeks. When we arrived back we found that
a banana-tree had sprung up in front of the tent
door and stood three feet high. Pumpkin vines six
feet long grew all around the camp, and long,
healthy-looking sweet-potato vines had invaded the
cooking galley. We had planted none of these
vegetables. They had casually sprouted from refuse
thrown into the little clearing. Apart from that
clearing, the country for hundreds of miles north
and south is dense scrub, and you wouldn’t meet a
white man in a day's ride. Yet people down south
give £OO an acre for land. They can have square
miles of it up here for practically nothing, rich
scrub soil that will grow any mortal thing. These
scrub ranges and tablelands will yet support an
agricultural population of millions. P.S. —This is
the country that some ill-informed person called
Braddon has just alluded to in Sydney as “Northern
swamps.”
“Cape Pork’’: As one who has employed
black trackers in Cape York’s dense vine scrubs, 1
say decidedly that the Australian abo. is the best
at the game that I’ve met, and I’Ve mixed with
red and black Indians, African natives and white
trackers. The fact that some of our black trackers
are “duds” is due to the Police Department’s lack
of discrimination in selecting the boys. Only a few
in most tribes are dinkum trackers, but when von
get the right individual it’s a lesson to follow him
on the scent. A small twig broken or bent, a
stone displaced, or silica crushed slightly on a
boulder —nothing escapes his notice. But bear this
in mind. When “working” a boy never speak to
him unless it is absolutely necessary', and don’t
forget to give him a spell in the saddle if tracking
is easy, as he can’t work well if he’s all-in from
exhaustion.
UNPARDONABLE OF TEE MAN.
UUNTHINKING MALE : “The country needs
rain badly.”
THE HORRIFIED OTHER : “How ever can you
make such a suggestion with me wearing
my new costume.'”
(Continued on page 22.)
OUR FLOWERS AND BIRDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In a land where bright blossoms are scentless,
and songless bright birds.” — Gordon.
I heard a thrush, a single thrush,
When early gold was yellowing
The mountain walls, lift up his voice
In notes so sweet I had no choice
But there to pause, and there to praise
His melody so mellowing,
So voiceful of the leafy ways.
And then, strong, liquid, pure and clem,
A magpie, gaily squandering
His gem-bright tones, enriched the air;
So sweet he sang that, listening there,
Beside those yellow mountain walls,
I dreamed that I was wandering
In Harmony’s enchanted halls.
Through deep, cool gullies then I strayed
Where crystal waters, sundering
flreen pond from pond, danced down and down,
And one, grown tired of time and town,
May And the peace of flowrr and tree,
And hear, as I heard, wandering,
The butcher-bird’s high melody.
Had we but ears then we might prize
The feathered folk that for us sing,
The ceaseless minstrelsy that fills
The green aisles of our coast and hills,
And makes all musical the hours—
The hone.veatcrs chorusing
At noon among the scarlet flowers.
Our songless birds! Take cloak and staff,
And, track and highroad following,
In spite of vain and empty words
\ou shall not lack for singing birds;
For all around, till daylight dies
And night comes earthward swallowing
The dewy land, their songs arise.
Our scentless flowers! Ye gods above!
Is it not cause for sorrowing ,
To see a lie so vile fake hold,
While wattle-trees, trees tressed in gold,
Shed perfume in rich Ravishment.,
And summer winds are borrowing
The pink boronia’s subtle scent!
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


The tdtewcvib Trade-mark
on an Electric Flat-iron
ensures you genuine efficiency and long years of satisfactory service
This trade-mark is recognised throughout the world as an emblem of quality.
The Stewart Electric Flat-iron has been on the market for the past 10 years. It has been “
gold exclusively by many of Australia s largest distributors, and it is looked upon to-day by
both distributors and users as the most satisfactory and serviceable Iron ever produced.
Until the present time the demand for the Stewart Iron has far exceeded the supply. Due
to increased manufacturing facilities and a larger output, it is now advertised to the public
in general, and if you will look for the Stewart trade-mark when purchasing your Electric
Iron, you will have the satisfactic of knowing that you are getting the best Electric Iron
that can be manufactured.
The Stewart Electric Iron has an extra-high quality
construction. It is unconditionally guaranteed to g;
Stewart Iron should be in service! It doss the ironing
fashioned Iron. It is ready for use in two minutes, and
minimum consumption of current.
emerr. a. the Ire ' throughout is of strong and sturdy
Ktion In every home where 'electricity is installed, the
the time, with half the effort and at half the cost of an old-
covistrueted that it gives the maximum service 'with the
tm
a*
igggg
MW*
-£=s*
x.Xi
■?;
If you have Curre... :!abte, Ih&ts-H a
ĵ
Electric Iron now, "'id Iror*
in Comfort.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO DEALERS AND STOREKEEPERS: Stocks of the famous Stewart
Electric Flat-iron are now available. Prices and full particulars will be supplied on application.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD
134 Sussex Street, Sydney. 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
II
EASTER VISITORS
Are Invited to Visit Paling’s
j
Come in and have a look round our warehouse and make yourself quite at home. Play
over any music you like on the Player Pianos or Gramophones. We shall be glad to see
you, even if you have no idea of purchasing.
IF YOUR PIANO IS SILENT
Because no one can play it,
EXCHANGE IT FOR
A PLAYER PIANO.
Then every member of the family
could play and entertain themselves
and their visitors.
max
4
Easter Gifts that will last.
PIANOS
PLAYER PIANOS
GRAMOPHONES.
These are sensible gifts of an
enduring character.
Gifts that will last for years.
Just imagine the delight of your family if they found that your
present to them this Easter was one of these instruments.
Let us give you Catalcgues
Price Lists and Full
Particulars.
PALINGS,
If you do not desire
to pay Cash, avail yourself
of our Easy Terms.
ĵ
338 George Street, Sydney.
BRANCHH5 —
BRISBANE . . TOOWOOMBA . . NEWCASTLE . . LISMORE.
IB


PERMANENT
Trustee Company of N.S.W. Ltd.
How can you be sure that the individual you have appointed your trustee will outlive you?
What certainty can you have that he will not die or travel before his duties are completed? Can lie offer any security for the conscientious
fulfilment of his obligations?
You can satisfactorily overcome all these disabilities of the individual trustee by choosing the Permanent Trustee Company to act as your
Trustee and Executor.
The Company cannot travel, disappear or die. All its long experience, all the knowledge and experience gained since 1888, will be brought to
bear on the management of your property.
The whole of the Company’s capital and assets, and those of each of its directors, manager and assistant-manager are in security for the
proper execution of its duties. The names on the Company’s Board of Directors are sufficient guarantee of its integrity and sound business
methods.
ALFRED G. MILSON.
JAMES MOIR.
Write for New Illustrated Booklet.
DIRECTORS:
F. X.'TAR WOOD
(Chairman).
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
O. E. FRIEND.
THOS. BUCK LAND.
J. W. Barnes, Assistant Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
“Bouragi”: I have never heard of Aus-
tralian blacks signalling by tapping wood, though
this method is common enough in the Pacific islands,
where a hollow wooden cylinder, placed or hung
upffjght, is used for bending messages between
villages. In Papua messages are dcsptached by
blowing conch shells or beating skin drums. In
the mountain country these telegraph systems are
supplemented by long-drawn chanting of messages
from hillside to hillside, and it is marvellous what
a distance a native can send them clearly. I have
seen Basutos and other S’African natives practise
the same trick. It is the famous “Kaffir telegraph,”
helped, of course, by runners from kraal to kraal.
A MARVEL OF WAR SURGERY.
DIGGER (who has just had crushed fingers
attended to): "Sag. Doc., give us a hit
of hope—will I be able to play the piano
when these hands of mine get all right?”
DOCTOR: “Oh, certainly.”
DIGGER: “Then you're a hlanky miracle, be-
cause I never could before!”
“Centurion”: Mention of the passage of
secret messages among natives recalls an incident
in Egypt, after the Evacuation. The Light Horse
brigades were quartered in different parts of the
country, my own regiment being on the Bar Yusuf,
a canal bordering the western side of cultivated
Egypt. One morning early in April, 1916, I was
riding with the O.C. of the Squadron through some
HE KNEW IT WASN'T SMITH'S FAULT.
SMITH: “I shay, ole hoy, you hive me five shillinsh.”
JONES : “Thash all ri', ole hoy. Don' mensh'n it.”
of the villages. Always insolent and abusive (from
a safe distance), the young fry of the filthy wallows
this day excelled themselves, while their usually
crawlsome elders went about with an air of flash
aggressiveness. 1 remarked to the 0.0. that we
had got a knock somewhere, and we went home pre-
pared for bad news. Three days later we were at
ltomani, which had been occupied by a Yeomanry
brigade. This crowd had pushed forward a couple
of squadrons to Katia, seven miles out, and Ograhtina,
nine miles further on, and a flying camel column
of Turk's and Austrian machine-gunners had mopped
them tip 24 hours before we got the orders to
leave Western Egypt. Romani is 40 miles from
the Suez Canal in the Sinai Desert, and about 80
from the Bar Yusuf. Dunno how the “telegraph-
ing” was done ; but there’s no doubt it was done.
* * * *
“Silas Snell” : Stuckey never married. “I
never had no one make a fuss iv me but oncet,” lie
said; “and they was Mowling’s girls at Salt Hills,
down Gippsland way. I was give a job be a swell
feller in Melbin to go on his land at a place called
The Fresh. What he said was: ‘Oct off at the
station, take Pirate Hill and Eagle Point in a line,
and keep straight on,’ and 1 done it, and at about
sundown found nteself adrift all to ’ell. 1 camped,
and nex’ day /put in 14 hours tryin’ to find meself
on a pannikin iv water and three biscuits. 1 didn’t
do it, but the day after a girl picked me up, when
1 was gibberin’ like a lost calf, and took me to Ned
Mowling’s place. Mowling’s place was gettin’ on
towards the sea, and was the desolatest, God-forgot
hole you ever see; hut Mowling had settled there,
and got together a fambly iv four girls. It was
Nellie, the youngest, about 19, what picked me up
in the bush and brought me home. I wasn’t any
too good, 1 may tell you ; but them girls tumbled
over theirselves to look after me, the little ’un
grousin’ every time one iv her sisters butted in with
gruel or milk. ‘I seen him first,’ sez Nell. ‘You
ain’t got no rights to him. You leave him alone,
see.’ And Jane sez: ‘You ain’t got no more rights
to him than anyone elst.’ lAin’t I!’ squeals Nell,
‘Who picked him up and brung him in? Suppose I
found a scrubber and yarded him, who's ’d he be?
Mine a-course. Well, where’s the diffrins?’ Then
Nell would come fussing in with a cup iv tea, and
Jane would foller with a bit iv toast and Molly
would bring a grilled chop or somethin’, and nothin’
bein’ left fer Sis she’d smooth me piller, with Nell
snappin’ at ’em vicious ez a cat. I found these
girls had cows and cattle iv their own, which they
looked after theirselves, which accounted fer Nell
regardin’ me ez a stray she’d picked up, and meant
to stick to. ‘Didn’ I yard him in?’ sez she. ‘What
d’ yous wanter go interferin’ fer ? Go and round
up one iv yer own! ’ sez she, and they’d go at it
hammer and tongues. Nell appealed to her father,
and then to her mother, but Mowling and his missus
was as wild as their tribe, and the lot iv ’em looked
as if they’d lived on a desert island for 20 years.
They couldn’t give no reasonable decision, and the
squabble went on, with no one carin’ a tupney cuss
what 1 might think. The more ’tention the older
girls showed me the wilder the youngster got. Then,
just after daybreak on the fifth mornin’, 1 woke up
with a yell, got up, dressed, and out on th’ track
Mowling had pointed out for me, and never looked
back. High time, too! Look here on me shoulder.
That’s there fer the rest iv me days. Dash me if
that kid hadn’t sneaked in and put her cattle brand
on me! ”
“W’gabba”: DillalnU State cattle-station, in
the Charlevillc (Q.) district, was the scene of the cap-
ture of the Warrcgo bushranger, William Brown, in
1809. B r o w n was
rather a mild sort of
’ranger who relieved
Ihe peaceful pioneers of
Warrego of their money
and provisions. After
a few months in the
business he strolled
into Dillalah home-
stead, where he was
unknown, and was
given rations and a
camp. A lad named
Jack Frith, who had
been in a camp Brown
had held up, recog-
nised him a couple of
days later and gave
the out 1 a w away.
William was politely
overwhelmed by his
former hosts, the
station-hands and
chained up to a pos+
until a John Itop
from Charleville found it convenient to come out
and collect him.
“Kybina”: Blowing in the other day to a
Solomon Island anchorage to get a supply of water,
I found two young fellows—returned soldiers —
making a start on a new plantation, hewing away
at the primeval jungle and living happily together
in a house made mostly from the leaf of the ivory-
nut or sago palm, very cool and comfy. They fed
me well on dynamited fish and wild duck and
pigeon, and we swapped tales of Egypt, France and
Blighty. Next? morning the lads took me out to
ihow me their sawmill. I found an old broken-
down steam engine, on which was painted the name
“Poziert*,” grunting away discontentedly. They
said the timber paid more than half the native labor
on the place, and I believe them, for there are
many varieties of good timber in the Solomons,
aud a ready local market. The steam gauge was
broken, and in its place was a locally-made con-
traption consisting of a soda-syphon valve, and
behind this a piece of cardboard with the following
graduated steam-scale: —
Time to Leave.
50°
40“
30“
20“
10“
As the ordinary risks of the Solomons were enough
for me, I left.
* * * *
“Jim Carew”: Let them all have a go—
prospectors, fossickers, gully-gougers and the rest.
Wanted to know, a simple method of distinguishing
(without having recourse to chemicals) alluvial tin
from “mineral” of kindred aspect. Burning on
shovel, water discoloration, tin flashes and such
futilities are barred.
* * * *
“Zanthus”: The name Croweaters sticks
to S. Australians because the early settlers are sup-
posed to have filled up on crows when tucker was
short. But in tire early days of Westralia, too,
crows were not despised. George Moore notes in
his diary that on April 29, 1832, his Sunday dinner
consisted of four crows and a quail. On May 1
he had another crow for dinner. After eating yet
another crow on January 4, 1833, Moore smacked
his lips and said it was excellent.
“Lake Nash”: We have here (Urandangie,
Q.) an animal which is undoubtedly a cat-'possuni
cross. It is greyish-blue; forelegs shorter than the
cat's; with a shallow pouch, showing two nipples
on the skin of the stomach. Occasionally when rest-
ing the curio assumes a position similar to an
opossum’s. Last, but rot least, it has been seen
to swim across a waterhole when on the prowl.
P.S. —Forgot to say it can fight anything here bar
the four-ycar-old bullocks.
“K.” : Sme engines have a varied career.
While the boss a d I stood by the spinning fly-
wheel, be told me that the faithful toiler before
me had spent years on the Murray driving a river
steamer. Then it got a 'job in a flour-mill. Subse-
quently he bought it for his S. Aus. distillery. And
if prohi! ition comes it may end its days driving a
gloom plant in a Home for Decayed Wowsers.
* * * *
“MeXorth” : We wore nosing about out-
side the bar of the Banni liner (Papua), searching
for the deep-water channel that was the uncertain
entrance to the main reach, when an outrigger canoe
with a tremendous sail of woven grass came skim-
ming alongside. Its occupant, a young native entirely
nude save for a piece of string, ottered for 10 sticks
of tobacco to lead the way in over the bar and to
our destination, some 10 miles up the river. Our
skipper agreed, and it was soon evident tliat the
pilot was out for fun as well as to a coo. There
was only a ripple of sea, hut his canoe tore along
so that the spray shot high up her mast. She
heeled her outrigger so high that we on the lugger
momentarily expected a capsize. The native stood
upright in the stern, leaning hack from the handle of
the steering sweep, a bronze god confident of his
power. Our crew tightened the sheets, laid a
straight course and steered carefully, for no self-
respecting luggerinan likes to be beaten by a mere
affair of hollowed logs and woven grass. But it
was no good ; the canoe drew away rapidly, skimming
over the water like some gigantic winged fish. Time
after time it turned and came hack to us, to keep
a sedate pace for a few yards as befitted an orthodox
pilot, and then, as though impatient at our slow-
ness, tearing off as before. As soon as the pilotage
was nnid over the brown sailor set off on the down-
TO RESTORE THE STATUS QUO.
The Photographer “Note, I leant you to
look just as though you were not having
your photo taken.”
THE VICTIM : “ Well, then, give me hack me
deposit !”
river track. We watched the frail craft go ripping
down the stream, the great sail bulging full, the
bronzed son of the South Seas laughing and tossing
his fuzzy head as he leaned up the wind or shook
from his oiled body the beads of splashed water.
SLING-POT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ben Lomond is a king of peaks, with clouds upon
his knee,
And South Esk is a troubadour a-singing to the sea,
But Sling-pot will be Sling-pot through all the years
to be.
The wheeling eagle loves to nest among tile cloven
crags,
The leaping trout his pleasure takes among the
river flags,
But Sling-pot like a beggar goes, a beggar clad in
rags.
They say, who ride at Duty’s call or Honor’s high
command,
When rain is heavy on the roof and night is on the
land,
On Sling-pot lies a withered moon as white as
Naaman’s hand ;
And homeless winds, the winds that know the sorrow
mortals keep,
The pang that chokes the muttered word, the tear;
too salt to weep,
Cry all night long on Sling-pot when the world i
fast asleep.
Haply, the gods that keep the keys from some high
throne of grace
Beheld the shame that walks at noon within s
holy place,
And laid a curse on Sling-pot, and a shadow on it.-
face;
That when around the feet of Spring the poppies
leap in flame,
And every wind is spilling song adown the road
she came
Nor leaf nor moss on Sling-pot may call upon liei
name.
And when glad Summer comes to robe the earth in
blue and gold
Of miracle and mystery that no man dares unfold,
Sling-pot is like a potter’s field ; so Hinnom was
of old.
Yea, old Ben Lomond is a king that lordly winds
obey,
And South Esk is a trouba <] Qm thut sings the
years away, _
But Sling-pot ’be Sling-pot till the last -green
leaf is
1
MARIE E. J. PUT.


m
0
\
CIGARETTES
' . _ . • \ ;■■■ ' N
Possess that charming' individuality that
is so appealing' to many thousands of our
Australasian friends.— Quality same as usual.
“JUST PERFECT/
1
®NUMBERS
JO
D
>o
THE RED PACKET
FOR
c /n
' , »£r.


n
0
&
m
■
v
c «tsr
Woo
BtS
-«
CROUP
miiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiininiminiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinunin
EVERY Drop of
“Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street. SYDNEY.
A Plain
Fact!
iq.
11
1
might stay in a corner of the old country
and make a dialect, or might create a cult
among his old people and have it described
as slang. He would be as respectable one
way as the other. In the second case the
dialect might become the language if the
dialecters licked tfie languagers. In the
thiid case the slang might become the lan-
guage if it spread fast and far enough. It
is like the struggle of .religions. At one time
in England Roman Catholicism answered
to the language and I’rotestantism to
the slang. Then Anglican Protestantism
became the language and Catholicism being
too old to become slang (slang is always
new) became a dialect, though not a local
one. Fresh yteriahism, oil the other hand,
was regarded as a local dialect of the
North, though in its Own country it was
language. Religious slang of many softs
grew up iii England. Salvationism was a
wild and woolly sample at one time. Now
it is old enough and rich enough to be a
dialecJ.
The < 'agots in the Pyrenees, a lone frag-
mentary race which is like no other known
people, possibly represent the very bad fail-
ure of ail attempt to create a race and a
nation. It could only have failed worse
if there were no Cagots left. The llaps-
burgs. with faces all then 1 own, were
another failure. They were Cagots on the
throne, while the other lot are Hapsburgs in
hovels. Passing from race to language,
Ladin, spoken still in one Swiss and one
Tyrolese valley, is apparently the remnant
of a respectable failure to make a language.
It is respectable because it is old and has
proved its capacity for endurance, and it
is a language, not a dialect, because it has
a defined territory of its own. which
Cockney hasn’t, though more people speak
Cockney, The vocabulary of C. J. Dennis
isn’t a language, because Dennis hasn’t a
lone valley to put it in, and the scarcity
of lone valleys nowadays spoils the pros-
pect of new languages. Nor is it a dia-
lect. for no defined section of the population
make ii their common speech. The grind-
ing uniformity of the newspaper and the
State school prevents such a development.
Yet Dennis probably is what the Romance
tongue called Ladin once was, and but for
accidents of date and place of birth Dennis
might have been Ladin and Ladin been
Dennis. More than that. Dennis might
have been the English or French language,
and either of them might have been him.
Slang and dialect are both objectionable
because they answer no want, fill no empty
I>l nee, and make more useless things or lux-
uries that have to be learned and remembered
and dictionaried. They are lumber, but the
first is the new lumber that we can help and
the second the old lumber that we can’t. Yet
I don’t see why they shouldn’t both supply
poetry. Turkish is an old language and
widespread and has a definite location. Yet
with all these advantages you can write far
better poetry in Dennis than in Turkish.
J. E.
Shaw
The discussion on G.B.S. has wandered
from the point. There isn’t any question
about the humor of Shaw’s earlier plays.
The man who wrote “The Devil’s Disciple”
and “The Doctor’s Dildmma” is the finest
wit who has handled English drama since
Wilde. Perhaps Barrie runs up closest to
him. He might even push a nose in front.
I won’t argue. (Neither of them English,
by the way.)
Everyone made mistakes about the war,
and the world will recover from any antics
which G.B.S. may have cut. That isn't the
point. A politician is allowed to make mis-
takes—an artist isn’t, We could forgive
Shaw for keeping his commonsense out of
the war if he would still put it into his
plays. But he doesn’t do so, though he is
probably claiming just as much from the
royalties. Three of the short plays in this
last Heartbreak House volume are pantomime.
That is all very well in its place and man-
ner. Sliakspeare could make a Falstaff or
a porter at Hell’s gate. But Shaw tries to
splash on the red paint with a dry point.
The result isn't even a paradox. It's appal-
ling. Aristophanes backed the wrong side
in Greek politics. But he didn’t spoil his
comedies. He knew that his political opinions
wouldn’t matter a snap of the fingers in
50 years’ time. Shaw is so busy saving the
England he loathes from the fate he says
site so richly deserves that he forgets that
the best cure is a reasonable laugh—not a
guffaw. As for the play of “Heartbreak
House” itself. I can quite understand any
good Shavian being heartbroken. The char-
acters in the play haven’t a drop of fluid in
their veins except some vitriolic stuff that
dripped off G.B.S.’s own pen.
P. D. PHILLIPS.
A Satchel of Books
The Woman of Forty, by Dr. E. B.
Lowry i r orbes, Chicago). Described as a
“sex book,” but really a lot of quite sensible
advice on ordinary subjects such as diet,
exercise, care of the teeth and looking
pleasant. Reads like the sort of doctor’s
visit that you feel you could have done as
well yourself.
Tckel, by Arthur C. Champneys (Bell,
London). A booklet laboring to show that
the Papacy played a bold, bad part in the
war, but not succeeding in much more than
the creation of a general feeling of lassi-
tude. The Irish bishops are blamed for
the scarcity of enlistments in Ireland, while
everybody knows that the dearth -was
directly, and nossibly intentionally, due to
the action of the English Government which
tied John Redmond’s hands.
Ypres, Wlf (Constable, London). This
is an official German account translated
into English; and anyone who wants to
know how the undaunted handful of Teutons
held out against the overwhelming hordes
of the English can find it all set down.
Britain’s long preparation for the war is
also insisted upon; and generally all the
sins which are Germany’s own are heaped
upon the heads of her enemies. A fine
example of -stalwart lying.
Peat Smoke, by Joan Rundall (Deane
and Sons). Gentle verse of the heather and
glens and bog-myrtle with much repetition
of ideas and no very special quality.
The Crimson Alibi, by O. R. Cohen (Dodd,
Mead). A thrilling detective story and good
enough to deserve a less lurid title. The
conviction of the right man at the finish is
quite dramatic.
Simon, by J. Storer Clouston (Black-
wood), a well-constructed and -written detec-
tive story. All the pieces fit together; the
mystery is deep and dark; the yarn never
drags; there is just enough characterisation
to make the people interesting.
Mona- Lisa-N obod y, by Aimee Bond (Her-
bert Jenkins). The tale of a little girl with
large eyes who writes on a Fleet-street paper
and then becomes a model in the Latin
quarter of Paris. The yarn is readable, but
not convincing. None of the characters,
except the heroine, matter much ; and she is
more interesting than real.
Every Step in Canning, by Grace Viall
Gray I Forbes, Chicago). With the
American preparation for the war there
came a general shortage of things to eat.
This set the .housewife cooking and her
husband making things grow in the garden ;
and all sorts of new and old preserves went
on the pantry shelf. This book tells you
very carefully how to make them; and it
should be as useful in Australia as any-
where else in the pinch of the present peace.
The Bcaeli of Dreams, by 11. de Vere
Stacpoole (Hutchinson, London). Another
castaway story. A steam yacht, cruising off
Kerguelen, rams a sailing-ship. Both go
down. Two seamen and a young French-
woman are the sole survivors from the yacht.
They reach the island. One man is lost in
a swamp and the other is killed by the girl
in self-defence. After living alone for some
time the girl is discovered by n seaman from
the sunken sailing-ship. Their wanderings
and fight with the crew of a Chinese junk
are well done, and the end is different from
most.
Pagan and Christian (Weeds, by Edward
Carpenter (George Allen and Unwin, Lon-
don). This is a'large and closely-written
book in which Christianity is traced to its
roots in Paganism, and Paganism to its
roots in sex, magic and ast onomy. r ii,o
striking thing about the work is the way
in which the laborious author will use his
inductive logic from alleged facts wh'cti
are far too slight to carry the structure.
Thus, without any hesitation, he declares
that the round towers of Ireland were
emblems of phallic worship. Seeing that
those towers are now proved to have been
built during the Danish invasions and link
up in their architectural ornamentation
with the buildings of the same period in
Northern Italy, the statement is sufficiently
absurd. After that, when he declares the
Cross to be a phallic emblem, the reader may
be inclined to toss the book on one side.
Why, because the letter T was a phallic
sign, the cross, which we know the Romans
used for execution, must necessarily be the
same sign would puzzle a person less
credulous than Edward Carpenter. Credulity
is really the keynote of the whole work.
The author will believe anything if only it
is far enough away from the likely and
accepted. This vitiates a work which con-
tains some things wise and well said.
Heartbreak House, Great Catherine and
Playlets of the War, by Bernard Shaw
(Constable, London). Though Shaw has
lost a good deal of his skill and talks on
as lengthily as ever without saying much,
there has so far been no volume of his plays
that did not contain something worth read
ing. In this case “Great Catherine” fills
the bill. It is a very joyous farce in which
a young 17th-century English officer of
wooden morals and magnificent inadapta-
bility is thrown into the amazingly rowdy
but efficient court of Catherine of Russia.
Patiomkin, the drunken Prime Minister who
kicks generals down stairs for exercise,
makes very good fun; and Catherine her-
self, whose idea of torture is to tickle the
ribs of a bound victim with the jewelled toe
of her slipper, is well worth while. “Heart-
break House,” the long three-act piece, is
a dreary waste lit by occasional flashes.
The people sit around and talk and talk
and then freshen the proceedings by talking
some more. None of the characters are
convincing; few of the remarks matter;
there is no action, no motive, no construc-
tion, no honesty. “O’Flaherty, V.C.,” is a
dull attempt to make the average EngFsh-
man think he is right about Ireland, which
fails in that even the average Englishman
will not believe it. “The Inca of Perusa-
lem” is a lamentable attempt to be humor-
ous about the Kaiser. “Augustus Does His
Bit” may be rather a close picture of an
English -war official, but it is not in itself
even moderately amusing. “Annajauska”
is a music-hall sketch about a Russian
princess turned Bolshevik; it is a little
worse than the others. On this book’s show-
ing Shaw is about at the end. There are
the usual prefaces, only more than usually
dull.
•
“N.”: “Dominie’s” experience with book-
seller-profiteers (B. 26/2/’2O) is a trifle
compared with mine. For 20 years I
gathered books, carefully, but with a taste
for good bindings. My collection of 1100 in
1017 was “a choice picked lot” (trade-buyer’s
description). They had cost me £350. Then
domestic disaster overtook me, and I sub-
mitted just less than 600 to a big Sydney firm,
where my account during eight years had
been perhaps £lOO. Its buyer offered me
£l6! I swept him out, but on the doormat
he made it £2O. I sold them to another man
for £25 10s., “a good bookseller’s offer,” he
told me, because he knew me. And so it
was. They included fine editions of Balzac,
Maupassant, Wilde and Shaw, perfect copies
of the Rackham and Dulac art books, etc.,
and in a week sales had returned £4O. They
were soon all cleared out at something over
£lOO, but the firm that offered £l6 would
have got more. I know of two large collec-
tions which it bought at fourpenee a volume.
The Lightning Artist.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“But about this facility. What does it look
like? Here is a man sitting with ink and paper.
As he writes the tears spring into his eyes and run
down into the ink. . . .In half an hour he has set
down six stanzas with only a couple of alterations
in his copy. They represent a real emotion.”
— D.MJV. (Red Page, 11/8I’20).
Alone*in his green garden, with big bluchers on his
feet,
Among dim orchard-odors subtly rich and faintly
sweet,
Beneath a loaded Jonathan bowed down with crimson
fruit
The poet David labored, in an 1890 suit.
Carolling there a simple song of calmness and con-
tent,
To turning sods the wrong side up his energies he
bent.
Nearby a magpie waited, with a calculating eye,
To see what wormish treasures might be garnered
by-and-bye.
All, all was peace and quietude. A little wandering
breeze
Came by and stayed to whisper gentle nothings to
the trees.
The po-et paused—he paused and with a frantic
.gesture flung
His spade away, as though by some swift, searching
creature stung.
He flung his spade away and, roaring, fled towards
his den,
And, shaking with emotion, sat him down and seized
his pen.
“800-hoo!” he sobbed, and wrote six lines and wept
all down his shirt,
As though his writing caused him some extreme
internal hurt.
Across his streaming eyes he dashed a somewhat
grubby cuff,
And, scribbling, blubbered, “Bub-bub-bub-by Jingo,
that’s the stuff!”
Writhing and rocking to and fro, and sobbing all the
time,
In ecstasy he struggled to embalm his thoughts in
rhyme.
Ilis breath came short in gasping gust-, or long in
shuddering sighs ;
Salt, scalding tears, as big as marbles, brimmed his
anguished eyes.
His head was bowed, his quivering chin knocked on
his heaving chest,
The while he snared new thoughts and pinned them
down with eager zest.
He filled his handkerchief with tears and paueed a
trice to wring
The moisture out. “AVahoo!” he wept, “this is a
bonzer thing!”
And spilt more tears and ink adown the wet and
wilted page.
“Dud-done,” he bawled, “it’s almost done!” At this
triumphant stage
He howled to think of what the less hydraulic po-ets
miss.
“00, boo-hoo-hoo,” he sob-hob-hobbed, “I am enjoying
this! ”
He wrote the final couplet, dried his tears and wiped
his pen,
And stepped into the garden, quite his normal self
again,
Pulled out his watch, and grinned. “Good -oh!” the
poet David said.
The magpie left the bough to which, affrighted, he
had fled,
And cheerfully approached. “By gum,” said David,
“that was slick !
The time’s a bally record —just ten minutes, to the
tick !”
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENRY.
The Inky Way
Albert Cherry, one of the oldest reporters
on Melb. Herald, who drifted on to the Inky
Way after starting for the Church, has aban-
doned journalism to till the soil of King
Island. Before leaving he was given a send-
off and a wad of notes by his colleagues, and
Julius Grant attended and presented him
with some more notes on behalf of his friends
in the other profession.
“O. Blin”: Will Hope, a Maoriland
draughtsman who has published cartoons in
two or three continents, is adapting the
Futurist idea of art to pictorial satire with
beneficial results to his income in England.
His ingenious pictures are appearing in the
Sunday Chronicle (London) and Man-
chester Dispatch, and the more Futurist
and obscure he is the more he seems to be
applauded for irony and humor.
“P.0.M.” : As “an amateur” it would be
presumptuous on my part to do more than
show a shocked surprise at the further state-
ments of the “professional” Harrison Owen.
But “professional” is a vague term. A man
who admits that he has written about “The
Decline and Fall” without having read Gib-
bon can hardly be a professional man of
letters, but he might easily be a professional
billsticker. Therefore, up with another
poster for “The Mount Marunga Mystery’ .
I am in heartiest agreement with its author
that he could have dropped 25,000 words
out of the book without reducing its value.
I would go even further and say quite en-
thusiastically that he might have dropped
50 000 words without altering its value as
either literature or fiction.
Davies, the Argus man who for several
years toiled for the Australian Cable Syndi-
cate in N’York. was lately appointed repre-
sentative there for La Nacion, the greatest
of all S. American papers, at a salary which
would make an Australian newspaper-owner
swoon. Still, even in N’York it is regarded
as one of the few prizes in the trade. Davies,
who hadn’t previously visited S. America,
is now there on a three months’ visit —to get
acquainted with local viewpoints.
“II.O.”: A review of Oscar Wilde’s “A
Critic in Pall Mall” (B. 4/3/’2O) quotes
as one of the book’s epigrams a description
of Meredith’s style as “chaos illuminated
by brilliant flashes of lightning.” But this
is merely one of those examples of wit
which Oscar produced from the recesses of
a good memory. A hundred years before
Wilde wrote thus in “The Decay of Lying.'
Voltaire had described Shakspeare’s tragedy
as “chaos illuminated by a hundred shafts
of light.” A few discoveries of this kind
assisted me to lose the enthusiasm for Wilde
I once endeavored to conceive as a protest
against the confusion of morals with art.


cm
She.PPaQQ
&
V
MIC
-r
2?
7
*•*
5^
vs
&
$
ft
rgA
iss>.
Mileage and Money
TO the man who buys tyres, Mileage and Money would
appear to represent the proper measures of comparison.
In reality they are, in point of quality, opposite extremes.
Proportionately, the more miles the less money; the fewer
miles the more money. And that, after all, is the point
which influences the buyer in the direction of Goodyear
Tyres. He is confident of a return in mileage that will
reduce the cost-per-mile to a trifling sum.
The reason lies in the positively-better-construction of Goodyear Tyres.
Finest rubber, fabric stronger than has ever before been made, and
methods of production which crystallise in every tyre the highest
scientific and engineering skill and knowledge.
Add to these features the efficiency of the All Weather Tread—of which the tough,
big rubber diamonds grip like giant fingers —and the uniform service of Goodyear
Tyres is largely explained.
Buy your Goodyear Tyres, Heavy Tourist Tubes
and Tyre-Saver Accessories from the Goodyear
Service Station. There is one in your locality.
Branches and Agencies
in all Principal Cities
Service Stations and
Dea era Everywhere
1/0
vmm S


j
ĵ
j
You will find fhe best- possible
advice fo Sheepowaers.
jjULC&CtIUt
CajwntMiL.
i Art/
a
At
IT
A
f»
Showing
Bottle
de-mounteJ ,
KEEPS CONTENTS
Ice-Culd 72 hrs. Hot 24 hrs.
Icy-Hot Bottles are
ideal for all climates
and are made for
hard usage.
Extra Protection
is ensured by a coiled
spring and felt pad
which absorbs jolts
and jars and makes the
bottle practically un-
breakable.
Absolutely
S>i nit ry
because the
spring-tight
neck-flitting
prevents leak
age of liquid into the outer case.
The Name ICY-HOT clearly stamped
on the bottom of each bottle is a guar-
antee of the Standard of Perfection
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES.
Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
The ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.,
Cincinnati, Ohio, IT.S.A.:
159 West Second Street.
Made in various
sizes and styles
fromy 2 -pinl up.
Icy-Hot Jar
for solid food
or ice-cream.
V
TRAGI fWttC*
A
LOOKING
FORWARD
Are you looking forward to
the hours you intend to spend
in the open air—enjoying the
freshest breezes that blow and
securing the healthy exercise
accessary for the full enjoy-
ment of life ?
fou will get most out of your
leisure Lours by investing in a
hicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings,
tnen you are certain of tbe very
service for pleasure and
tiSility.
Tbe reputation of tbe B.S.A.
Fittings for long service and reli-
ability is known all over tbe world.
Send for latest Illustrated Hand-
book of models for all riders, ana
make your choice.
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
t* B.S.A. Parts are guaranteed
interchangeable
B.S.A
S3XT|NS^
D. Y. RENNIE
ipfiesenling The H.S A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
mm
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC (a-Z.
BRAND
Containing about
(99.9%
99.95% Metallic
guaranteed).
Zinc
SPELTER
BH AS
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust —Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 6? Brookman Buildings.
“AAV.” “ T.Y.R.” “A.W. PREMIER.”
ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH.
HIGH-SPEED DRILLS. HIGH-SPEED STEEL.
Sole Australian Representatives.—
Gilbert Lodge & Co. Ltd.,
115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
500 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Inter-State Stocking; Agents:—
A. SCOTT & CO., Kit Edward Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, Ltd., Woranda Bldgs., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.), I,td., 891 Hay Street, Perth.
, Manufactured by
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.,
Manchester, England.
m
o
T
\
rm
«U
~ --
wm
/
THISTLE SHIRTS are
in a class on their own.
There is fit in Thistle
Shirts—comfort and satis-
faction in appearance.
Thistle Shirts are generously
cut, accurately proportioned
and correct in balance.
See that your next Shirt is a
THISTLE SHIRT.
Sold by all Clothing Stores.
Have you tried THISTLE PYJAMAS.
Alexander Stewart & Sons
Ltd. Makers
BRISBANE & SYDNEY.
A.S. 27
|put?iq iuu bos'
s\t
V
m
%
on each iliirt
ĵ
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
j
TO
H.M. THE KING
SCRUBBS AMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATION OF INSECT BITES.
Of all Grocers, Chemists, Etc.
SCRUBB &. CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
ĵ
Next time you buy Underwear
After feeling its soft smooth texture and examining the
evidences of good workmanship—the careful finishing
of all seams, and its woven shape that promises perfect
fit—judge if you are justified in paying higher prices
than those required for this other-thamail wool wear.
The Media
Tab
ALL BRITISH
UNDERWEAR
Stockings, Socks & Gloves
For Men, Women and Children.
Good Drapers and Stores every-
where can supply you. See the
MedSi Tab.
Manufactured by
W. TYLER SONS & CO.,
King Street, Leicester, England
v \r >
Warm and thoroughly absorb-
ent Medea is manufactured in
Britain from other than all-
wool yarn, to give comfort and
service at popular prices.
Business, Robbery, etc
“Sun R.”: If smart advertisement can help
them, the irrigation settlers at Berri (S.A.)
will get the railway they want. As the
string of motors carrying De (Jaris’s Press
pilgrims raced towards tin 1 settlement during
the recent tour, each car was slowed down
at the brow of a hill by a man with a red Hag
and a notice on a tree: “Look Out for the
Train.” The drivers were not laking any
chances, so they slowed down—slowed down
enough for the man with the ting to toss a
bundle of pamphlets into every car.
“Wessels”: A new kind of timber has
lately been coming into Darwin from Mel-
ville Island. It is called Kedjeebutt or Kad-
jee-butt (the spelling is not quite fixed), and
it seems to be a species of eucalypt. It is
claimed that it will resist the white ant, a
very important thing in the Territory. A
line testimonial to another Territory timber,
by the way, is given by some of the piles
of the old jetty and certain posts ashore
at Port Essington. They are of ironwood
and are reasonably sound, though it is now
M) '’ears since the old settlement was aban-
doned.
* * * -If
“Due North”: The black flag is pretty
well out of fashion now even in the back-
waters of the East Indies, but Sulu pirate :
have developed a good side-line in smuggling
Chinamen into the Philippines. They pick
the Chinese up in Borneo or thereabouts- -
terms, cash in advance —and if it is not
handy to go up to the Philippines, after all,
they either dump the passengers overboard
or put them ashore on one of the Robinson
Crusoe islands that fill those seas, telling
them that it is part of the Philippines and
that they can walk the rest of the way.
Borneo is filling up pretty fast nowadays
with Chinese, and Japanese are working up
a timber business on a pretty big scale.
“Forester”: The Australian timber so far
most used for making tobacco-pipes is the
Australian mahogany, or laurel-leaved
mahogany, which flourishes in Gippsland and
elsewhere. But others which work well and
take a good polish are worth a tfial. Such
are the box ( E. fl etcher i), oak (Q. castia-
riiia), red box (E. oral if olio)- strjngybark
and belah ( Cas. cambagei). Various other
woods, such as needlewood. red gum, musk
root and red myrtle or beech have been
tried already, but it is alleged that they
all have some defect when used as pipe-
wood. It is often supposed that the English
“briar” pipes are made from the root of the
sweet briar, which is only too common in
some parts of Australia. But they are not;
they are mostly made from the sweet heath,
a native of Spain, Corsica and North Africa.
In this case “briar” does not mean briar,
but is a bit of folk-etymologv for the French
word “bruyere” (heath).
“Two Seas” : This truthful little story is
related for the benefit of ticket-collectors in
the hope that it may caulk one of the many
leaks in the N. S. Wales railway revenue.
Just as the Melbourne express was drawing
into Strathfield, three young men in our com-
partment arose and retired to the lavatory.
When the ticket-collctor had gathered in all
the tickets in view, he pushed the lavatory
door open. One of the inmates stood in the
aperture drying his face with a towel. He
handed the collector one ticket and closed
the C or. Evidently the clever sports had
weighed the probabilities, and had calculated
that the collector wouldn’t expect to get more
Ilian one ticket from the lavatory. When
the train moved on they emerged, smiling at
the success of their stratagem. Those who
had paid their fares also smiled —with that
easy tolerance of any fraud upon the Gov-
ernment so characteristic of our race.
* * * *
From a Maoriland telegraphs man:—
“Expert Too” (B. 12/2/‘2O) cracks up the Wheat-
stone automatic telegraph system. Seven years ago
I told The Bulletin that the army of attendants
necessary at each end of the darned thing gives the
Wheat, the k. 0., and this is still true. Is there any
other country in the world that still chugs away with
it ? I think not. The man-power wasted punching
tape and “un-puncliing” it after transmission can L,e
better utilised keying the matter forward. What
the Australian service requires is more and still
more quad, sets, enabling one line to do the work of
four, and to get the tape-punchers and tape-translators
busy with the Morse key instead of fooling around
tape machines. Quads are not difficult to install,
and seem the easiest way out of the present hugger-
mugger methods. Type-printing telegraphy is hardly
due universally yet in these parts, for the reason that
one must first crawl. The sprinting comes later.
M.L. discarded the Wheat, some 15 years ago and
since then has specialised in quadruplex on busy
circuits.
THE REACTION
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“On one day recently Frank Anstey in Melbourne
and a prominent business man in Sydney prophesied
a coming crash.”
The day long, persecuting us,
It dins, this drone monotonous:
Our socks are up, and up are pants, and overcoats
are rising, too, and hats are up, and plates and
plants, and shirts begin to rise anew, and ties
are up, haircut and shave, and salves, and
everything we use, right from the cradle to the
grave, the theatre, the <la ily news
Is going up.
We cannot sup
But ruin greets us in the cup.
Our bread is rising more and more
As never rose our bread before;
And butter’s up, and upward goes the mutton and
the skinny beef. Two days ago the bacon rose,
and cheese is up. The housewife's grief knows
no rebate, for up and up goes every article we
chew. We cannot keep a brindle pup, for bones
are up, and liver, too.
Attempts to meet
The constant fleet
Ascension take me off my feet.
Our grievous need, the parson sings,
Is striving after higher things;
And soap goes up and gas is up, and higher,
higher every day go small goods sold by Brother
Jupp, and blankets take the upward way, and
wood is up, and coal and roots, and spuds are
up and oil and tire, and up are linen sheets and
boots. No wonder then each uninspir-
Kd prophet can
Foretell us an
Inevitable fall of mam
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON'.


m
•ii ii
J
n
w
US
TO l ''
TO
e
3SM
¥
"'I
Wj)
mm>
m
luniH
Ul
M
Ist
'/-
r*i
.ii? ihJf/jJ/' |
\
//A-'
aw;
- Hi! (
m
f'i»' Vk,rnAAn
Kim
m
1
U\
'II
T\
4//*
iSkSIi- h
o
m
V v OW
PK.C:"
'Hi 7
w/.; /
i
ON the farm, in the home, garage, factory, work-
shop, or mine OXY-ACETYLENE W< ci mg
is playing a big part in the campaign of economy
No longer do farmers waste time and money over spare pa, ts when
implements break down in the busy season. In the motor world,
the ability of the Oxy-Acetylene Welder to repair cracked frames,
cylinders, crank and gear cases, etc., has long passed the stage of
wonder. Metal kitchen utensils, broken garden tools, and num-
erous metal articles in the home, which previously went to the
rubbish heap, are now quickly made strong as new, for a trifling
amount, by the nearest Oxy-Acetylene Welder.
Day after day, when breakdowns threaten to hold up entire factory
plants, Oxy-Acetylene Welders speedily repair the most intricate
fractures in huge machinery parts at a fraction of the cost of
replacement. And in the manufacture of metal products from the
sheet, bar, or pipe, Oxy-Acetylene not only increases out-
put, but produces an article of higher selling value at infinitely
lower cost compared with seaming, riveting, or brazing.
Whatever the broken or worn article is composed of—-cast or wrought iron, mild
steel, brass, copper, aluminium or gunmetal—Oxy-Acetylene Welding will make it
strong as new for a trifle compared with the cost of replacement.
Ask us for particulars of " COMOX ” WELDING OUTFITS, or the address of
your nearest Oxy-Acetylene Welder.
THE COMMONWEALTH OXYGEN CO. LTD
FOY STREET. BALMAIN. SYDNEY. N S W
MELBOURNE —Fyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street ; ADELAIDE Geo. Wills & Co. Ltd.
Grenfell Street; BRISBANE—Evans, Deakin &Co., 121 Eagle St. ; LAUNCESTON—Harrison Bros.
& Co. Ltd., 20 Patterson St., PERTH—Geo. Wills & Co. Ltd., Murray St. , FlJl—Brown & Joske, Suva.
j
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Q
cs
%
Vea/th 0
A>
3
‘■'mixed
Sv^
a «nain


Grid ley 4iin. Single Spindle
Automatic Turret Lathe
Carrying one Bar of Stock, which revolves in a Spindle held between two heavy Bearings.
The TURRET. —The axis of the Turret supporting the tools is parallel with that of the Spindle, but
not concentric with it.
The TOOL SLIDES, 4 in number, upon the Turret are gibbed on to the square end of the Turret
casting. They are controlled by cams on the feed drum.
Furnished complete with 4 End Tool Slide Holders, one Vertical Forming Tool Holder, one Flat
Forming Tool Holder, one Flat Forming Tool Holder Sin. wide, one Cutting-off Tool Holder, one
Corner Stock Stop, complete outfit of Cams, including Feed Cams for fine, medium and coarse
feeds; one Master Collet and Master Stock Pusher, two Stock Supports, Universal Countershaft, Oil
Pump, Guards and Piping.
DIMENSIONS:
Standard size of Machine 4:lin.
Capacity of Chuck —
Round 4iin.
Square 3.005
Hexagon 3.680
Maximum length of Feed 13Jin.
Maximum length with regular Turners Sin.
Maximum length of Finishing Slide 12in.
Floor space Bft. Sin. x 3ft. 6in.
Net weight 68001 b.
Self-opening Die Hearts and Dies and Attaeliments for
fitting to these Machines are carried in stock, and could be
offered as extras; they are not included with the Machine.
Immediate Delivery.
Full particulars on request
BENSON BROTHERS LTD.
76-78 Liverpool Street, Sydney. 71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
138 Currie Street, Adelaide. C 290
PROPELLER BRAND
ROLLED METALS
P ENTIRELY
AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE
AUSTRALIAN METALS
have proved themselves.
The Austral Bronze Company’s products are now accepted throughout the Commonwealth and New
Zealand as equal, and in many cases superior, to the best metals ever imported. An expert staff of metal-
lurgists supervises their production, every line being the result of searching laboratory investigation and
hard service tests. The Commonwealth and all State Governments use ABC products extensively.
Rolled Copper, Brass, Muntz Metal, Manganese Bronze and Tobin
Bronze in Round, Square, Flat and Hexagon. All usual Trade Sizes.
Highest Quality. Immediate Delivery.
“Graphine” Anti-Friction Metal, in a variety of
grades, for different loads and speeds in all classes of
machinery. A distinctly high-class and thoroughly
reliable bearing metal,
liabbittls Metal. —Original formula.
Phosphor Tin (Ingots), containing 5 per cent. Phos-
phorus.
Phosphor Copper (Phosphorus 10 per cent.).
Star Antimony (99.5 per cent, purity).
“Austral” Chill Cast Phosphor Bronze (Sticks and
Bushes) is close grained without the hard skin common
to sand castings. Has increased' elastic and tensile
strength and machines easily.
“Austral” Plastic Metal adheres firmly without tin-
ning.
“Austral” Navy Bronze for heavy bearings, high and
low speed.
“Propeller” Brand Manganese Bronze (Ingots). A
high-class metal practically non-corrosive.
Manufactured by
The Austral Bronze Co. Ltd.
264 Botany Road, Alexandria,
N.S.W.
Selling Agents:
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney. (MEL-
BOURNE) PTY.j LTD., 499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
and Darling Building, Adelaide. Also from GEO. KENT,
LTD., Perth; and CHAS. E. BERNAYS, Brisbane.
[B. 565.
X.S.W. Railway Department lately pen-
sioned off an open waggon built 64 years
ago and on active service all the time. Sides
and flooring had been renewed, but the
under-timbers were still the originals and
were not unfit. They were a mixed lot of
Australian tallow-wood, blackbutt and blue
and spotted gum.
At Newtown (Sydney) a badly-damaged
woman appeared as complainant against her
hefty lord, and prayed that he should be
restrained from future pleasantries and
charged for recent amusements. A sympa-
thetic magistrate, surveying the damages,
noticed a darkened eye not included in the
inventory. “Oh, that don’t matter,” said the
woman hurriedly, when a question was asked
about the disregarded trifle. “He done that
on 'is birthday.”
“8.1. D.”: Melbourne bootsellers have
been testifying before the Unfair Prices
Commission that city working-girls insist on
shoes with high heels and thin soles, and
often in fancy colors. On the evidence of
the panto at Melbourne King’s the same
demand comes from the Backblocks. There’s
a campfire scene with bush girls in red
shirts; but they are all up to the minute
with their footrests.
“D.F.”: When I was a kid we used to
gorge ourselves with the gum of the black-
wattle, and I have known it to be used in
puddings. In the early days of S. Aus. the
collection of this wattle-gum was one of the
great natural industries of the country.
Apparently it was first exported in 1841,
and five years later thb shipments reached
about 250 tons, .worth probably £5OO0 —more
than the value of the wattle-bark that was
sent away. I never hear of anybody in the
business now.
Singleton (N.S.W.) lately hoisted the cen-
tury not out. On St. Pat.’s Day, 1820, a
party —John Howe (leader), Andrew Howe,
George Under, Philip Thorley, William par-
gnu and Benjamin Singleton—arrived at the
spot from Windsor, and called it Patrick
Plains. The shire still retains the name.
The explorers got land grants in the dis-
trict, and christened the baby settlement
Singleton after Benjamin. For many years
portion of the Dangar clan has defended
itself there against the wolf.
Another popular belief has been blown out
—that about the “Jerusalem” in Jerusalem
artichoke being a corruption of the Italian
"Girasole” or sunflower. A bulletin about
artichokes issued by the Kew Gardens states
that the whole legend is wrong. The first
European known to have seen the artichoke,
which is a native of America, like its rela-
tion the potato, was Samuel Champlain, the
French voyager, who saw it grown by the
Indians at Nauset Harbor. Massachusetts,
during his voyage of 1604-1607. As early as
1622 Vernier speaks of the plant under the
name of Jerusalem artichoke. Parkinson,
writing in 1629, calls it “potato of Canada.”
as well as “artichoke of Jerusalem,” and
says that it was the French who first brought
the plant to Europe.
“Yardstick”: It has taken Melbourne
warehouse employees five years to learn that
Flinders-lane is a poor doer when it comes
to cashing its verbal lOU’s. In 1915 an
effort was made to start a softgoods em-
ployees’ union, with the help of the Trades
Hall. Two or three meetings were held, and
the thing fizzled out —except that with the
earnest, if sinister, approval of the boss, a
“defence league” was presently formed to
give the employee a means of approaching
the Old Man in a dignified manner. The
failure of this device to uplift the toiler was
indicated at the Trades llall the other even-
ing, when 800 warehouse hands decided to
start a softgoods section of the Shop Assist-
ants’ Federation and apply at once for a
wages board. The biggest argument for
Doing It Now was the painful fact that
Lane bosses to-day pay married men 50s. a
weeks, with 255. for some single men phy-
sically capable of growing a set of whiskers.
“Dilly Flower” : A good hive of bees will
sometimes turn out two or three hundred-
weight of honey when they get a first-class
season, and with a few hundred hives going
the return is all right. There are bee-
keepers in Gippsland who have sold £lOOO
worth of honey in a season. The trouble
is that such seasons don’t come often. At
Nowa-Nowa, where there is a fine stretch of
bee-forest, it is reckoned that there have
been but three really good honey seasons in
the last 20 years—others have been fair;
some very rotten. There are beekeepers
who move their hives to a place where the
flowers are better when a bad season strikes
their district; but everyone can’t do that.
“Dog Crusoe”: Aloftg the Mitchell River
flats below Bairnsdale (Vic.) there are a
lot of round buildings with peaked roofs to
serve as the tombstones of a deceased indus-
try. These are the oast-houses used for dry-
ing hops in the days when Vic. grew her
own. Now she buys from the Speck when
she does not import from California or, be-
fore the war, from Bavaria. Hop-growing is
a fine closer-settlement business, as the Der-
went Valley in the Speck proves; there’s
always a lot of Work about a hop-field, and
hop-picking beats almost any kind of har-
vesting in the hands required to a given area.
With a declining country population Vic.
needs that sort of industry worse than the
Devil needs brimstone.
“Widgee”: Apparently there is no need
in Australia for the man (or woman) with
the gift of salesmanship to either work or
starve. A bright young man of my acquaint-
ance, with a winning manner and no desire
to become a producer, is nowadays occupied
in selling imported silk blouses in the
remoter parts of Gippsland Such goods are
extremely light, and it is possible for the
trader to carry a large, expensive stock with-
out the help of a motor-car. The salesman
doesn’t even have to visit farms to get rid
of his merchandise. He simply “makes ’ a
fair-sized township, puts up at the best
pub, takes his case of blouses, and systeni-
aticallv combs the village for customers, local
shopkeepers’ wives being among his best
patrons. Usually no considerable stock of
silk blouses is carried by the stores on the
spot; and the young man’s prices, since he
carries his “shop” with him, are inevitably
lower. His average weeklv profits are £l<>-
Such effort, in the pioneering centres of this
great country, must undoubtedly be a great
help in developing the magnificent unnatural
resources of Flinders-lane.


<1
SSf* 1 ®
r. Morse's Indian Moot
Pills Indispensable.
For those who travel by
sea or land Dr. Morse’s
»
/.-r
1
SI
Bans
WS
Indian Root Pills will be found a most useful
companion, and should always be carried
in the pocket or handy in the suit-case.
When preparing for a sea trip a course of these pills
taken nightly before sailing will considerably reduce the risk
of seasickness. They should also be used while at sea to
insure the regular working of the system, which so frequently
becomes upset when on board ship.
The railway passenger who has to sit long hours in a train finds his
liver becomes sluggish and digestion disordered through eating hastily and
insufficient exercise. He likewise finds a medicine of the type of
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills is just what he needs.
A;
m
It is important to remember that change
of food and living conditions .invariably dis-
arranges the system, and when that occurs
nature needs assistance, at least temporarily.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are specially
suited for this purpose. They will keep the
organs in perfect working order and prevent
many of the serious and costly illnesses if taken
when the first signs of Constipation appear. With
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills always at hand,
using a little care and intelligence, the system
can be kept in a sound and healthy condition.
Make one feel Brighter.


Y
jjose
ofjuocite
Begin to Wear
Them l
Hose of Luxite excel
because of specialized
tnethods of knitting.
For mo re than 16
gears these Hose have
amazed the public by
their durability, and
they are just as dur-
able to-day as ever,
besides being more
beautiful.
If your dealer is unable
to supply you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
50 York Street :: SYDNEY.
I-'*-■>+***& s,
.. . 1,. >vi V
-*/•■<#' n7> 4
'’'his Tag Protects
Every Buyer.
Fencing Wire
f rom the Ore to the Fence Australian.
Strains tighter, costs less, lasts longer
than imported wires.
Get Free Booklet N. 19.
Austral Nail Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Wire Mills at Newcastle, N.S.W.
Baby is a
Connoisseur
in his little way. He likes,
and must have, the best.
Mellin’s Food is the proved
most efficacious equivalent to
Mother's Milk.
Satisfactory feeding is half the
battle. Then, what a boon to the
mother to use a food which requires
no tiresome cooking or preparation.
Meliin’s
Food
ic made in a flash— needs no cookinfl
Send for sample of Mellin’s Food and Hand-
look for Mothers ‘The Care of Infants’—Free
Messrs. Gollin & Co. Proprietary
Ltd., Sydney
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
An y Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
THE GREAT ANXIETY
Everyone is feeling anxious these days, either
directly over the War, or through conditions
due to the War. The best way to overcome
the feeling is by being tuned up to full pitch.
Keep your nervous system in tone by taking
Pliosforino
I THE ROYAL TONIC
A few drops in water, night and morning of this
wonderful nerve tonic will enable you to tackle
work and worry with a strong heart.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton &C Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
ro:ro:o;:o; :•>:<*!■
,
° 8 7
m
_ /
Ml -r’\ -w'
> /
lm cs?*mz
Slim «z3>
Klsaslm. «■ -^-A
<\>
iX
:s
*
x
SHE
Ro:
.
■\ X / N 'i
jfib!sb;©o::
Roki
.
’US*
;o^i>oi?i§§g!^f!>»siosogSg§if33^p3
•!U9*yb:dv:cUr.:So:'o:d§sUS:Sd£o;
Js*7- '-''Sip
Economy
The fuel needed in three days for a plain bearing with a 70 m.m.
diameter and a load of 2200 pounds, at 250 revolutions per minute, is
40.78 pounds. An
SKF Self-aligning Ball-bear’ng
running under exactly the same conditions, and of the same size, only
requires 6.17 pounds. Thus the saving to be made by installing
SKF Ball Bearings is easily apparent.
Always specify SKF.
Gardner Waern (Si Co.,
Power and Light Engineers, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane.
Men’* Stout 7/6
„ Light 6/-
Ladies’ ■ - 4/-
Soles and Heels),
per §et.
Men’s Stout 2/6
Light 2 -
Ladies' 1/3
(Heels only ,
per pair.
FROM ALL
BOOTMEN.
Manufmcturers —
PHILLIPS'
PA TENTS Ltd.,
London , Eng.
fH THIN Rubber plates, with raised studs,
JJ to be attached on top of ordinary soles and
heels, giving complete protection from wear.
SOLES AND HEELS
make one pair of boots
last the time of three
ff]l THEY impart smoothness to the tread,
give grip, and prevent slipping. Keep
feet dry in wet weather. Ideal for golf.
Fortify
your
Boots!
As worn by
thousands of
Au st r ali an
Officers and
Men Overseas.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS
N.S. WAT.ES AND QUEENSLAND, G. WILLIAMSON, 46, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA, J. M. ROHAN, 262, Post Office Mace, Melbourne.
S. & W. AUSTRALIA, C. M. RANSFORD, 22, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WHY I AM FLEEING THE COUNTRY NEXT JUNE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 do not want to meet the Prince of Wales,
Or even to be near when he arrives.
I am not like the Bolshevik who rails
At Royal persons, and would have their lives.
Though I decline to play a loyal part
I wish young Edward well with all my heart.
I quite believe the things the papers say—
His boyish charm, his girlish skin, his smile,
Ilis tactful ultra-democratic way,
And the perfection, both of form and style,
Which marks his speech. And yet my only fears
Are that I may be nigh when he appears.
He knew the true Australians out. in France —
Men who for rank, as such, cared not a damn.
Soldiers who, meeting sovereigns by chance,
Greeted them easily as man to man.
The signs anil portents make it all too clear
That he will never meet such people here.
lie will receive the family of Blinks
(Whose fortune touched the million mark last year) ;
And Slyme, the bogus colonel: and MeSlinks
Who means to get a knighthood. They will cheer,
Crawl, (ruckle and embrace the very street,
If need be, that has touched the royal feet.
The coming epidemic will affect
Its victims least unpleasantly of all.
They like to grovel, lavishly bedecked:
They love before a prince's boots to fall.
It is the folks who watch them that will wince.
Rather than do it I shall shun the Prince.
x.s.w.
H. S.
Even the police grow sarcastic about the
Postal Department. It having been reported
that a robbery had taken place at a Sydney
suburban post office, the Law supplied the
correction that “this statement was an error,
as the robbery occurred on business pre-
mises.”
“Naming”: A cocky farmer in the sou’-
west of N. S. Wales met a friend and bor-
rowed a pound. A few days later he looked
up the lender. “I’m going to Sydney for a
few weeks,” he said. “Here’s that quid I
owe you.” The other, a well-known member
of a local Lutheran church, refused flatly to
do any business on the Sabbath. “Well,”
said the farmer finally, “there’s the quid.
I'm off.” And he dumped a handful of silver
on the mantel. But he hadn’t gone far when
an agitated voice hailed him : “Conte back.
Iley, y're a shullin’ shoort.”
“Lou”: I worked in a timber-yard in Mel-
bourne awhile back. One afternoon I stole
across the road to an iron-yard to tell a mate
something good for the ponies. While wait-
ing to catch him, a respectably-dressed old
man, evidently the owner of the show,
approached. He looked me up and down for
a moment, and then flew off the handle.
Out of the torrent I presently caught, “What
the ’ell ya doin’ here?” “Nothing,” I
answered, and was going to explain, but he
cut me off. “An’ do I pay ya to do nothin’?”
“No,” I began. “I came over” But be-
fore I could get in another word he had made
a rapid calculation, forked out three days’
wages, paid me off, and ordered me off the
premises. I skipped back to iny job.
Prof. Bragg, long of Adelaide University,
but now of London, attempts in his new
“World of Sound” to explain why people
sing in the bath who would not dream of
singing anywhere else. “The note is struck
for them by the running water. While the
voice sounds resonantly in the bathroom, it
is not half so fine and inspiring when the
song is continued in the dressing-room. The
reason is that the furniture of the dressing-
room tends to deaden the reverberations.”
Juries now sniff at finger-print evidence;
but the police still produce it with all the
hopefulness of an infant who wants to sell
a lucky-dip ring for a real shilling. In a
case at Darlinghurst (Sydney) Sessions the
sole evidence against a man accused of steal-
ing £250 worth of jewellery (which wasn’t
found in his possession) was a thumb-mark
on a porter bottle picked up on the burgled
premises. Counsel simply admitted the re-
semblance of the finger-prints to his client’s,
and then asked, “Well, what then?” And the
jury decided promptly that it was not enough.
“8.C.”: The cabled yarn about the
Ukrainian murdered by his parents, they
not being aware of bis identity (B.
18/8/’2O), requires an affidavit before being
swallowed. This anecdote was used by
Stephen Leacock in “Nonsense Novels” ; by
Rupert Brooke in “Lithuania,” a one-act
melodrama played in 1916 at a London
charity matinee ; and it may be found in
“Happy Valley,” a movie now being un-
wound in Sydney. Probably the yarn appears
in Genesis, but I haven’t a Bible.
Adelaide has a “Peace Exhibition” which
is claimed to be the most comprehensive dis-
play of Australian-made goods the Common-
wealth has seen. Also it is easily the biggest
exhibition Adelaide has had since 1887.
South Aus. has for years resented the sug-
gestion that it is purely agricultural, and
with that in its mind the Adelaide Chamber
of Commerce has called, on its home-
made goods to show themselves every
five years. It found that it could
and did produce everything from a
locomotive to a cricket-bat or fiddle. Its
woollen factory at Lobethal (now Tweed-
vale ) was one of Australia’s earliest; it
has made tramcars, railway engines and
harvest machinery for other States; and it
has probably the largest furniture-factory in
Australia. This time, in celebration of
peace, the Chamber’s policy is broadened,
and goods from all Australia are admitted.
“Rose Madder”: There i.s a deep, dark
silence, with some significance, as to the
opinion of the Felton Bequest and National
Gallery trustees on the Turner which has
arrived in Melbourne from London in ex-
change for £7250 of good money. Turner
had many changes of manner, but “Walton
Bridges” belongs to an early period, before
he had broken away from a current fashion
of making a new painting look as brown as
an old one. With the passing of a century
or so the colors have become drab. The
picture is not even a good one of its period,
and it is right out of the class on which
Turner’s fame rests. Of course his greatest
color work is unpurchasable, even by Ameri-
can millionaires, but even if Melbourne can-
not have something that does him a fair
share of justice as a colorist he reallv ought
not to be misrepresented by this dun “stuff.


MOTORCAR RUNS
ALASKAN RAILROAD.
Trainloads of Logs Hauled Over
Wooden Track System Daily
by Automobile.
O. P. Gaustad, of Fairbanks, Alaska, is
owner and operator of one of the “farthest
north” railways in the world. Ilis railroad
“system” consists of 15 miles of wooden
rails that stretch between the head of navi-
gation on the Tolovana River to the rich
placer mines above, some 75 miles overland
from Fairbanks. The motive power of his
railroad is a 101(5 Dodge Brothers Motor
Car, and it . has done such heroic work for
the past two seasons in imitating a genuine
steam locomotive that Mr. Gaustad dropped
into the salesroom of the Albertson Motor
Company, Dodge Brothers dealers in Los
Angelos, while visiting in that city recently,
and told an interesting story of his “railroad”
and the country it traverses. Mr. Gaustad
went to Alaska in the big rush of ’OS.
“I have a sawmill half-way between (lie
Tolovana placers and the head of navigation
on the river.” he said. “For two years I
have operated the railroad to haul logs to
my mill, and from there to haul the sawed
lumber to the mines. The track is 15 miles
long, and is of wooden rails. The Dodge
Brothers car is of course equipped with
flanged wheels and hauls a little train of
three cars behind it.
“In this fashion I have hauled loads as
high as six tons without a murmur from the
car. In addition to the lumber, I haul all
supplies from the head of navigation on the
river to the mines, and get s<so a ton for
transporting it. Sometimes I make eight
or nine trips a day, and this year the car
covered over 0000 miles in the course of fhe
season.
“The war brought great hardship to the
gold-miners of Alaska, for. owing to the de-
preciated value of the dollar, their gold is
worth but little more than half what it was
five years ago. Consequently many of the
mines are-shut down, for the producers figure
it is not worth while to pay excessive labor
costs to mine gold worth only half-price.
“With the advent of better roads, Alaska
will be a great market for motor cars and
trucks, for transportation is Alaska’s
greatest need just now. Few people realise
the immense distances in Alaska. From my
railroad, for example, it is 1600 miles to
tidewater, via the Yukon River.
“At the present there are something like
■SO cars in Fairbanks. The gasoline 1 burn
in the Dodge Brothers car costs me 85 cents
a gallon, and I get an average of 15 miles
a gallon, even with the heavy loads I haul.
Until this year, the valves in the motor had
never been cleaned, and the car has given
remarkable service when you consider- the
extraordinary nature of the conditions under
which it was required to operate.”
We are indebted to the Standardised
Motors Limited, Dealers in X.S.W. for
Dodge Brothers Cars, for the above inter-
esting information.
ĵ
Hodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
The knowledge of what the buyer expects has the
effect of inspiring Dodge Brothers to a constant
personal oversight of all manufacturing operations.
Their own life-long zeal for good workmanship is
sharpened and stimulated by a realisation of what
the public expects from them.
The entire institution is honestly permeated with
the idea that quality and performance are para-
mount and all-important.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
Dodge Brothers
Canada Cycle & Motor Co.j L.UI.,
Melbourne.
Standardised Motors, Limited
Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co., Ltd.;
Brisbane.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
Clieney Motor C 0.,. L.td.j
Adelaide.
Now on sale everywhere!
Messrs. Bender’s Food Ltd. are able to announce that
supplies of Benger’s Food should now be readily obtainable
throughout Australasia.
Should any consumer find difficulty in obtaining
Benger’s Food, communications addressed to the Sydney
office will receive prompt attention.
j
Food
is for INFANTS, INVALIDS and the AGED.
During 35 years’ use by the Medical Profession, it has
fulfilled every claim made for it.
Booklet and full particulars post free from:
BENGER’S FOOD LTD, MANCHESTER, England.
BRANCH OFFICE: 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at New York .U.S.A.) <9 \ Beekman Street. Depots throughout CANADA.
=54 a
Money Power or Luxury.
DR. FREDERICK LAW, author of “MASTERY
OF SPEECH.” gives in his fascinating couYse of
Eight Lessons the secret which, if you had the
choice of only one gift for your boy or girl,
you would probably choose above money or power
or luxury, or any other desirable possession—
namely, the ready ability to be a good talker
at all times and under every conceivable condition.
50,000 took the course in England
in three months.
fisi;,
Wm \'n
m **
m
■ » '■
* <«
£■**< . j*
Send 42/- to the STANDARD ART BOOK COMPANY LTD., 29 Woolbroker
Chambers, Young Street, Sydney, and the above course will be forwarded you.
SAFEGUARD YOUR HEALTH
QtJ.Coltis Brownes
CWorodyne
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE EOIi
Coughs, Colds, Asthma
ttnd iu the Cough of BRONCHITIS an
CONSUMPTION.
c. -*
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 11$, $l-, 51
Made in England.
ĵ
j
ĵ
Shaving: with
The “PLUM”
RAZOR
Is a pleasure you’ll anticipate.
This noted Razor is no new invention.
For many years it lias maintained its
supremacy through sheer consistency of
merit.
Tift “Plum” requires but little strop-
ping, as its finely tempered edge keeps
keen against the strongest beard, and
gives that smooth, velvety shave which
every man appreciates. Thousands of
“Plum” Razors are sold annually.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of
charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/0.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strops, 7/6 and 10/6 each
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2.
All the above Post Free.
SAFETY
RAZORS.
“Army and Navy” Safety Razors, with Strop, 12/6 each.
Ditto, in Nickel Case (flat), suitable for travelling, 10/o.
The “Army and Navy” Razor has our fullest recommendation.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG ff AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder


CHUNDER JUDGING AT BABY SHOW.
&
y
#r.
’ // /
X'V 4*
fcS
jtf- >-v'.
C'O
iKf
m
\ ,
/ 5
0
V,
—7
J
to
a
c
\SS
5s
V
&
V
%
//
or? *
\\
Wjf
G
s:
\
i.
/
\v"'>v
FIRST
*r
/“i
'Si-
PRIZE
fe>
\
r*
O.v*
0^
ft
1'
£*
i
v J'"
y
■/&
n
m
*s£
'
C
/r*'P5 A *3
io e-u
«*
Cobra.” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Helps to judge
The babies who
Are Australia’s
Pride and joy.
Each bright girl
And shining boy
Gets a good prize.
Mothers yearn
When at last
It’s Willis’s turn.
Is it “First”?
Ah, see, he’s smiled!
They have found
A “Cobra” child!


■■
A. Saunders' Nut Dish and Cracks, pure Siher-
platcd, A 1 quality, embossed border, 84/-
A. Saunders’ Dinner Cruet, pure
Silver-plated Frame, Crystal Cut-
Glass Bottles, 50/-
Saunders’ S'oup Tureen, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, plain design, £lO/10/-
A. Saunders’ Flower
Vase, pure Silver-
plated, Gilt-lined,
5-inch, 12/0.
A. Saunders’ Butter Dish, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, Crystal Glass Dish,
SILVER-PLATE
A. Saunders’ Biscuit Barrel, polished
Oak, A 1 quality, Silver-plated
Mounts, Porcelain China lining,
A. Saunders’ Combination Fruit and Flower Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, highly burnished, £lO/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street
(Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Flower
Vase, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality,
clear Crystal Glass,
'2m
A, Saunders’ .Tatu I)i-
Silver-plated Frame, Fancy G 1
•h, pur
Dish, 25/-
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
highly burnished and engraved, 45/-
A. Saunders’ Hot Water Kettle,
piie Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
A. Saunders'
Afternoon Tea Stand, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, £6/10/-
Legal Notice.
OOUTH AUSTRALIA.—IN THE SUPREME .COURT.
—Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction, No. 37 of
1920.—Between ELI ERNEST TOHL Petitioner and
ALICE AMELIA TOIIL Respondent and EDWARD
JAMES McAULIFFE or MACAWLEY Co-respon-
dent.—To ALICE AMELIA TOHL of Goulburn in
the State of New South Wales and to EDWARD
JAMES McAULIFFE or MACAWLEY of Goulburn
aforesaid Wheat Lumper.—TAKE NOTICE that cita-
tions have been issued out of this Court respectively
citing you TO APPEAR and answer the petition
of ELI ERNEST TOHL of Prospect in the State of
South Australia out of business praying for a dis-
solution of marriage. IN DEFAULT of your so
appearing you will not be allowed to address the
Court and the Court will proceed to hear the said
petition proved and pronounce sentence in respect
thereto. AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for
the purpose aforesaid within 30 days after the last
publication of this notice an appearance must be
entered at the office of our Supreme Court Victoria
Square Adelaide in the said State in accordance with
the Rules in ‘that behalf.
W. L. STUART, Master. BAKER, GLYNN, PAR-
SONS and CO., Morialta Chambers, Victoria Square,
Adelaide, Proctors for the Petitioner.
To be inserted once in the Adelaide Advertiser
newspaper and twice in each of the following news-
papers: The Sydney Morning Herald, Sydney
Daily Telegraph, The Bulletin and one other
weekly paper published in Sydney.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
1" IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVENINGS AT 8. MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND
SATURDAY AT 2.30.
A DELIGHTFUL NEW ENGLISH REVUE FROM
THE COMEDY THEATRE, LONDON, ENTITLED
TAILS UP.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
“piVOEI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
THE FANTASTIC MUSICAL COMEDY,
AS YOU WERE.
Prices as usual.
I'HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
GRAND OPERA.
The J. C. WHLLIAMSON GRAND OPERA COMPANY
in an extended repertoire of Operas, including
La Tosca, Romeo and Juliet, Louise,
and Tales of Hoffmann.
Evenings at 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays and
Holidays at 2. Plans at Paling's.
H E R M A .J E STY’S, S V I> N E X.
* Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays and Holidays at 2.
THE REVUE OF A THOUSAND AND ONE
DELIGHTS
THE PASSING SHOW OF 1920.
Interpreted by a Specially-selected Cast.
Plans at Paling’s.
U I T ER I O N TII EA T It E, SYDNEY.
’ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY, APRIL 3,
AT 1 (MatinOe).
T. C. WILLIAMSON’S GORGEOUS PANTOMIME,
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY.
Plans at Paling’s.
Amusement*.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction J. and N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
EM E LIE POL INI
and All-Star Cast in
KINDLING.
A DRAMA OF TENSE INTEREST.
Box Plans Nicholson’s.
WIRTH BROS. LTD.'S CIRCUS.
THE HIPPODROME, HAYMARKET.
THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & Holidays at 2.30.
THIS YEAR BIGGER, BETTER THAN EVER.
ALL NEW STAR COMPANY OF AMERICAN,
CONTINENTAL AND ENGLISH ARTISTS.
Prices: Reserved Seats, 6/-, 5/- 4/-, 3/- and 2/-,
plus tax.
Children Half-price to Matinees only.
Box plan at Nicholson’s.
UNI O N I'ICTVK IS TIIisAT It IS h
THE PICK OF THE WORLD'S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE. LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union .Theatres Ltd.
QLA'CIARIDM, MELBOURNE.
JAZZ PALAIS
DANCING.
EVERYEV E N I N G,
8.15 to 10.45.
MISS HUTCHISON’S JAZZ BAND.
Admission 1 /-
Single Dances -/6
Book of 14 Dance Tickets 3/6
Reserved Table ......... 2/0 extra.
Elt MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD., present the Attractive
Musical Play,
KISSING TIME.
Plan at Allan’s. Popular Prices.
Til EAT RE 110 Y A 1.. MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present London’s Most
Successful Comedy,
TILLY OF BLOOMSBURY.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Lessees: BEN and JOHN FULLER.
NEXT SATURDAY, APRIL 3.
BEN and JOHN FULLER PRESENT THE
GREAT CHARACTER ACTOR,
JOHN LAWSON,
in
HUMANITY AND THE NATURAL LAW.
Popular Prices. Plan at Pianola.
Amusements.
KING’S TH EAT KE. HI E 1.15017 It N E.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8?
J. & N. TAIT present the great Belaseo play,
TIGER ROSE.
The Greatest Drama of a decade.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan's.
Town jht all, meliiol t r n e.
Direction: E. .1. CARItOLL.
TWICE DAILY, 2.30 and S p.m.
COMMENCING EASTER SATURDAY,
E. J. CARROLL Presents, by Arrangement with
Australasian Films, D. W. GRIFFITHS’S
THE GREATEST QUESTION.
Also
THE SHADOW OF LIGHTNING RIDGE,
FEATURING “SNOWY” BAKER.
Prices: Evenings. 3/-, 2/- & 1/- Matinees 2/- & 1/-
Box Plan at Allan’s.
|_J OYT’S THEATRES. HI El. 150 (I R N IQ.
1 1 Also SYDNEY.
DR LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridget. ■
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
GEORGE WALSH in
THE WINNING STROKE.
MAD A LINE TRAVERSE in
ROSE OF THE WEST.
Prices as usual.
HALL, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. and N. TAIT PRESENT THE RENOWNED
BIG-GAME HUNTER,
HARRY IvAIGH EUSTACE,
Whose Thrilling Story is illustrated by Moving
Pictures of the African Jungle.
Matinee every Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
-|- HE ALLAN WILKIE COMPANY,
Including Miss FREDISWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
Touring New Zealand in
HINDLE WAKES, CANDIDA, THE SCHOOL FOR
SCANDAL, SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER. TRILBY,
CAMILLE, THE SILVER KING, THE MIDNIGHT
WEDDING.
CHRISTCHURCH, APRIL 3 to 21.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
EARLE WILLIAMS
in
WHEN A MAN LOVES.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
Situation Vacant.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the
position of GENERAL MANAGER of
a leading GENERAL ENGINEERING
FIRM in New South Wales, stating age,
qualification and salary required.
Applications by letter received until
Wednesday, April 14. 1920. addressed to
“PERSONALITY,”
Box 241 G.P.0., Sydney.
Amusements.
OIUTANMA
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
ABBEY SHOES!
The name of “ABBEY” on footwear is a
guarantee of comfort, distinctive appear-
ance, and long service.
We feature a highest-grade Patent
Oxford Bal., Dull Calf Legs.
65/-
.All Patent 67/6
Tan 607-
In half-sizes, narrow, medium and wide
fitting's.
Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.


>
3903,
vor Ebeiy Occasion.
ABBOTS LAGER
c Zicffieer vJitAout a V&tfa/
BREWED PROM PORE ONiy
I
Ufa
£
H
The “Warrigal” Sweater
Heavyweight AH Pure Wool.
Chill winds will not trouble you if you have the
snug comfort of a sweater like this. Its cosy
warmth, its easy conforming fit, its spacious pockets
in which to thrust the hands—all these mean
COMFORT.
The “Warrigal” Australian Sweater is a super-quality
ALL-PURE-WOOL production in the convenient
Jacket style buttoning in front with V-opening at
neck. An ideal sweater for all occasions. May be
worn like vest, with collar and tie.
The “Warrigal” brand is a guarantee of quality.
36in. 40in. 44in. chest.
45/- 47/6 50/-
Colors: Grey, Mole, Navy, Brown or Lovat (green
mixture).
PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE.
Please state chest measurement and color required.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Passing Show of 1920 ’
Criterion “The Sleeping Beauty”
Royal Grand Opera
Palace “Kindling”
Tivoli “Tails Up’
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
The Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COM'NG WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Kissing Time”
Royal “Tilly of Bloomsbury”
King’s “Tiger Rose”
Princess’s “Humanity and the Natural Law”
Tivoli You Were”
Hoyt's De Luxe & Lyceum ........ Ai.ving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Athenjjum Harry Kaigh Eustace
Glaciariuu Dancing
Town Hali, Moving Pictures
+- .
“Tales of Hoffmann” gave the J. C. W.
Grand Opera season a start at Sydney
Royal. Ralph Errolle, trim and precise as
Hoffmann, tenored his way lightly through
the three love episodes which give three lady
principals an outing. Eileen Castles, as
Olympia, the singing doll (legs and voice
excellent), earned more bouquets than Elsy
Treweek, who played the singing Venetian
vampire Giulietta, or Patti Russell, who, as
the consumptive Antonia, was worried to
death by Dr. Miracle (Alfredo Valenti) dur-
ing a gas strike. Handsome Giulietta lacked
fire, and the decorous singing sirens she had
in to help her would have graced any Sun-
day-school picnic. I’atti Russell did better
and died on the note like a musician. Reli-
able Thelma Carter sang the music of Nick-
laus, A.D.C. to Hoffmann. Carl Formes,
splendidly costumed, decorated the Venetian
tale as Dapertutto, the magician. Tom
Minogue was at his best when quavering
the replies and reproaches of Franz, the
deaf servant of the third tale. On Thurs-
day night “Trovatore” was brought out of
the boxj and on Friday the double bill—
“Cavalleria” (Leah Myers as Santuzza)
and “Pagliacci” (Eileen Castles as Nedda).
Saturday night saw the co,. make its first
Sydney attack on “La Tosca.” Amy Castles
isn’t tall enough for the big hat and flow-
ing gown that Tosca wears in the first act,
but her top notes soared like rockets.
Walter Wheatley (in lieu of Lois) made
a throaty Mario, and used his painter’s
palette upside down. Also he had only one
small brush to finish lvis immense mural
nainting with. Perhaps Tom Minogue, the
humorous sacristan, had given the others to
the altar boys. Formes, as the relentless
Scarpia. arrested attention as well as every-
thing else. Whatever his morals, his table
manners were excellent. Fred Collier sang,
fled and took poison as the fugitive Angel-
otti. Slapoffski’s orchestra has its moments,
hut the general effect is ragged. Programme-
for the rest of this week: Thursday,
“Tosca”; Good Friday, theatre closed;
Saturday, “Lucia” (matinee), and “Faust”
(evening).
sfc * * *
Sydney is now expected to get along to
the Tivoli, where two giant black cats wink
electric-green eyes and signal “Tails Up.”
It’s a good, average quick-change show with
some London echoes of the bygone war and
a number of ticklesome tunes. Amongst
the familiar names are C. H. Workman,
Minnie Love, Billy Rego and Lottie Sargent.
The new people
include Winifred
O’Connor, who
isn’t the Wini-
fred Australia met
years ago. The
tale of the intel-
lectual sergeant-
major brings on a
file of depressed
recruits who are
under orders to
play “Macbeth.”
Private Small
(Rego) is a miser-
able pocket-
edition man who
infuriates the
S.-M. by moaning,
“O Gawd !” when-
ever a fresh bur-
den is thrust upon
him. Allotted the
part of the ghost,
be reappears with
a white sheet over
his arm. The
S.-M. bellows
“What’s this ’ere
kit?” and Small
replies woodenly,
fn good military
fashion. “Sheet —
one —white. Ghost
—-f or use of!”
“Tails U p”
“Tilly of Blooms-
bury,” at Melbourne
Royal.
Emma Temple as
Mrs. Welwyn, waiting
to meet Dick's family.
isn’t as bright as that right through
but it moves quickly, and the chorus-ladies
accomplish some clever costume-changes on
the stage. The new lighting expert gets
some fine glowing effects —notably the final
tableau of the Spring Ballet.
“Tiger Rose,” a simple, dramatic tale of
Canadian timber country, can hardly be
said to have come to light at Melbourne
King’s last Saturday. At its most exciting
periods the play moves in utter darkness or
in dim mystery, and its bursts of silence
would sometimes be oppressive save for the
convincing patter or heavy downpour of rain
upon the shades of night. In the art of mak-
ing a noise like a thunderstorm and depicting
daybreak in a tumbledown log cabin, where
the heroine has been sitting up for hours
with a revolver pointed towards an invisible
policeman, “Tiger Rose” is a notable melo-
drama. Scenically it commands respect.
Perhaps the play is too gloomy in sentiment
and surroundings for Australian tastes;
but there is the chance that its well-
ordered contrasts in picturesque char-
acterisation may assist the thunderstorm
to capture public interest. The story radi-
ates from a murderous incident which is
merely talked about: the shooting of a man,
who never appears at all, by a young fellow,
who appears only a little. Everybody is con-
cerned in either trying to capture the heroic
killer or in helping him to escape. Finally
he gives himself into custody and is to be
taken to the nearest town for trial, on the
understanding that the devoted heroine
means to marry him at once. This is pro-
bably the greatest punishment that will hap-
pen him.
*• • »
Marie Ilka plays the passionate heroine
with a natnralness of method which is more
pungent than unimpeachable. The girl is
“TAILS UP," AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Billy Elliott and George Gee talk of
“Yaka-Hicki-Dula.”
supposed to be an 18-year-old French-
Canadian possessed of a beautiful face, a
winsome manner and a devil of a temper.
She makes a habit of improper language, her
“hells” and “damns” being uttered with an
accent which is French in intention but
somewhat Dago in effect. Marie Ilka is
not, on first acquaintance, as young and
charming as the tempestuous Rose she is
meant to be, nor does she dress the exact-
ing character wisely from an Australian
point of view. An ugly frock and an un-
becoming height of American forehead ai*e
against her as long as the lights are turned
up, and, although her diction is incisive, the
very sharpness of her replies suggests the
stage vixen. She divides first prize with
Ethan Allen, the mounted policeman whom
she puts to confusion, and who makes him-
self likeable under difficulties. Henry Gor-
don, another newcomer, is pleasing in a
French-Canadian part, and Douglas Ross is
a hearty representative of an idealised
Scotchman combining the sentimentality of
Bobbie Burns with the unctuous kindliness
of Harry Lauder. John Waller’s quiet
nasal delivery of his lines is marred by a
trick of dropping his voice at the end of a
sentence. Neither the tall young man be-
loved by the heroine, nor the lengthy
Catholic priest who joins them in holy mat-
rimony, appears to have any dramatic punch
to speak of. Cyril Mackay, as a casual
American, is conspicuously out of the pic-
ture, but the two Red Indians are satisfac-
tory.
Sydney Playhouse let up again on Satur-
day, when the All-Diggers’ Co., under J.
and N. Tait management, put on “Made-
moiselle Mimi,” a sort of behind-the-line
show adapted for city use. Mimi is a hard-
faced Digger in feminine clothes, and she
sings in a shopworn contralto. Some theatre-
goers can admire that sort of clever fake
for a whole evening; others would prefer
half an hour of the false-alarm Mimi and
then a real singing girl of some sort. “Made-
moiselle Mimi” is a sort of joyous dramatic
experiment, and will gets its share of the
Easter crowds.
The lady is at Melbourne RoyaL
* * * *
Baiting big bill with morsels of Wilde,
Barrie and Shaw, Arthur Goodsall lured a
big house to Melbourne Guild Hall last
Thursday night. The entertainment open**
with Wilde’s “Florentine Tragedy,” If
which Goodsall, as Simone, showed l
appreciation of the innuendoes veiling the
merchant’s homicidal intentions. Occasion-
ally the actor had to dip his ear to the
prompter, but in other respects he was fully
equipped to play the cat-and-mouse act with
the erring Guido. As the mouse, Allan
Murray was hardly full-grown and had a
Rtrain of the hysterical wistfulness which
Shaiv flaunts in the poet of “Candida.”
Ilettie Feuermau rationed her emotions as
Bianca, but was a brighter Mrs. Juno in
Shaw’s “Over-ruled,” wherein Allan Murray
expressed the sentiments of Mr. Limn with
a further relapse to the Marchbanks man-
ner. Isabel Handley gave emphasis to Mrs.
Lunn’s respectability, whilst Dr. Stewart
Macky, as Juno, couldn’t soar histrionically
through an embarrassing load of artless
affability. Barrie’s “Twelve Pound Look,”
ordinarily brilliant with the splendor of
feminine intelligence, became so blinding in
its effect through the work of Rose Quong
that one felt the necessity of watching
it through smoked glass. The incidental
music by Henry Tate had the dinkum Aus-
tralian atmosphere, and was capably handled
by an orchestra that wanted a bit of brass
to achieve the fullest effect.
# * * *
Wirths’ Circus at Sydney Hippodrome is
the same old Wirths’, and while it’s that the
kids will thoroughly enjoy it. There are
the usual performing lions, elephants, “beau-
tifully-caparisoned steeds” and ordinary
horses. Also there are Bailey’s dogs and
sheep, which provide the finest animal-posing
stunt seen outside Parliament House. It is
a cheerful show, and dad needn’t regret
having promised to take mum and the kids
along some evening. If the thought-reading
Howards, or, rather, the man who lisps a
long speech in connection with that show,
gets on dad’s nerves—well, there’s a perform-
ing elephant kept specially for throwing at
bores.
* * # *
“The Sleeping Beauty” wakes at Sydney
Criterion on Saturday night. Capitals fail
the J.C.W. management on the subject. It
even hints that the merits of this pantomime
will even make patrons forget that the
admission prices have just gone up 25 per
cent
Or. #
“Kindling” smoulders along at the Palace
and makes its helping of Sydney playgoers
think seriously of housing problems and
Baby Week. Heroine Emelie Polini is the
■worst-dressed actress in Australia for this
production.
* * * *
“The Passing Show of 1920” still hangs
out its sign at Sydney Majesty’s. If you
want to be stunned with magnificence, there
it is.
jje $
Elaine Hammerstein wears some beauti-
ful clothes in illustrating the great virtue
of the “Country Cousin” who comes to the
Big City to rescue her chum. The film is
from the novel by Julien Street and Booth
Tarkington, though much of the gentle charm
of Booth Tarkington has evaded the cinema-
man. The frocking is magnificent, and
there’s a special mannequin parade that
should draw every woman in Sydney to the
Strand and the Empress. Geraldine Farrar
moves through “Shadows” at the New
Lyceum, which is the address also for “The
Pagan God,” introducing the impassive
Chinee to the moving-picture industry. At
the Haymarket and the Empress Fatty
Arbuckle is “The Hayseed”; while the Hay-
market and Globe preach a Salv’army ser-
mon called “Fires of Faith,” which treats
of a Fallen Woman who is Picked Up (but
that happens every day), and of how Eugene
O’Brien becomes first-lieutenant to Com-
mandant Booth through striking a hard spell
of luck, and afterwards a hard spell of
weather in France.
* * * *
“Kissing Time” is all the time at Mel-
bourne Majesty’s. The voices of Gladys
Moncrieff and Maude Fane will be individu-
ally and collectively associated with Ivan
Caryll’s sugary melodies till further notice.
Also Theodore Leonard, in reaching for his
“Tilly of Blooms-
bury," at Melbourne
Royal.
Dorothy Manville as
Tilly, giving the
Mainwaring family
the true history of
her own.
terrible top note,
will continue to
make a noise like
Leslie Holland’s
false beard. Good
Friday the two
ladies aforemen-
tioned will devote
—with Walter
Kirby and others—
to a sacred con-
cert at Her
Majesty’s, while
the comedians will
endeavor to reno-
vate their torn and
tattered warbles
with half a pound
of jujubes and a
darning-needle.
** * *
A t Melbourne
Tivoli all that is
good in “As You
Were” will be con-
tinued over Easter,
and all that is not
so good will hap-
pen as before. The
six most beautiful
Girls i n Australia
are still doing their
best to come up to
public expecta-
tions. On nights
when expectations
don’t soar very
high one of
the Girls almost succeeds in coming
up to them, the illusion in every case being
largely assisted by the dressmaker.
Harry Kaigh Eustace and his pictures of
domestic life among the elephants and things
are another Melbourne entertainment that
will survive the holidays. The big-game
hunter has added two matinees a week to
his original intentions, so he probably will
persuade the white rhino to be present while
he talks on Easter Monday afternoon.
® ff * *
“Rose of the West,” the' new Hoyt fea-
ture in Melbourne, is no relation to “Tiger
Rose” at the King’s, but both plots are laid
in Canada and are heavily embellished with
the heroics of the mounted police. The lead-
ing hand in the film is the star of the force,
and he is the sentimental objective of Mada-
line Traverse after a pal has made a con-
venient corpse of her long-lost husband. In
the other Hoyt narrative, “The Winning
Stroke,” George Walsh survives all the
machinations of a scowling enemy who
endeavors to spoil his fame as an oarsman.
There is a nice girl in the story, Jane McAl-
pine, who reveals a new style of movie love-
liness and has considerable dramatic equip-
ment. The Majestic is making a heavy
raid on Melbourne’s pockets with “Her King-
dom of Dreams.” “Mr. Wu,” the Chow
melodrama, is also on the current Majestic
bill, with Matheson Lang and Lillah
McCarthy in the leading parts.
At the Princess’s next Saturday the Ful-
lers will invite Melbourne to get acquainted
with the latest star, John Lawson. John,
a character actor of some tonnage, will
show his qualities in a couple of pieces.
“Humanity” and “The Natural Law.”
** * $
For “The Sleeping Beauty” Adelaide
Royal has been filled from wall to wall,
including all the standing-room, on every
one of its closing nights. Plainly Adelaide
has the money for longer seasons now. Fred
Bluett still heads the bill at the Majestic,
where also are the Thurbers and Clark’s
dogs and other animals. Eroni’s old-fashioned
circus—in which Ermakov, the sword-
jugsrler, is a strong feature —is giving Port
Adelaide and other towns a treat. Pictures
are on the strong side. Wondergraph h3s
Houdini doing his handcuff and strait-
jacket feats on the screen ; and there is an
aeroplane collision which looks genuine. At
West’s is “One Hour,” marred by advertise-
ments which try hard to suggest “vibrant
passion” of a sort the Censor would not pass.
At the Pav. is a very old Chaplin film, with
a fine series of pictures of alligators in their
Florida home. The Royal has an Austra-
lian-made “Man They Could Not Hang.” the
old story of an English murder —rather
crude, but highly popular.
If all young Richards, true of heart,
Were tender, manly “sillies,”
And all girls, touched by Cupid’s dart,
Uncrafty little Tillys;
Were every aitchless mother’s son
A breezy bloke like Percy;
If wealthy dads to everyone
Showed kindliness and mercy;
Were Connie not an angel “sport,”
Like ’Melia (ideal flappgr!);
If Sylvia (human, stuck-up sort)
Had wise mamma to slap her;
If this world’s man and womankind,
Whereof one sadly sickens,
By Providence had been designed
From types by Ohar-les Dickens —•
Well, then the play by lan Hay
Would not be welcome very.
If every bright young girl and boy
Were good as gold without alloy.
And bailiffs, droll and merry,
Helped class distinction to destroy,
We’d And no freshness to enjoy
In “Tilly of Blooms bwry.”


e
liimlflllliimi
.A. modern Txismass aid.
eliminating waste of
time ana irrita±ioiv_/.
\ve its
SECRETARY
ZJ
zr head
■+. -- -
t&i
woiuieriixl eftloieixcr^
p
DRAFTING
.ROOM
SBfi*T
m
m?
SHIPPING
Ss
§5
m
rSALES
MANAGE®
w»
wggrgg.' gBSsaSiE
APR»V
■ wljujjl’iTTi
«S*
=s^
m
m
’’’ ,' Ts- *• . "***
'V I X~vsfe^^^^3'l‘-V'^^sSS
ms
CKING
PA
ROONI
TANT
CCOUN
3^
&?»>
£
<?
YOUR PROBLEM OK PERSONAL CONTROL.
A
IV maintaining personal contrfßjtf where thevc is a wide division a&lnbor, authority and respjyiki'
bility must be deputed to Assistant Me nugers, department besHs, foremen and so
maintain personal control a concern it is necessary to &&Cp in constant contact witfi£*aeh.
kiwi nil of these. That, means Constant inter-communication. FoffVevery moment spent in !j .jpbnver-
jsatiou five or srx are spept infrtraversihg the distance betwepii" the Manager's Office Jirnd tho
ilepartlnent. t Jk</ i /
Would It be an advantage to you if you could get iijf<* communication, with., JAji.v member 1
of your staff, without using th£ usual telephone receiver apfiP mouthpiece; without fringing them.
from their desks: without and expense ofM*’ telephone- operator oifgjPbe possibility
of having your conversation overheard? /§jr ytys . • *
Would it be an advantage
who are in different parts of|j&our
> to you to be able tojlfoeak several peopW?
■ premises, and to enahl&pthem at the same tifjgte to speak to y#
and each other: to hold conferences; to give instructing or settle queries, without you or jms
leaving their departments? £/' diw
one else leaving
pise leaving ineir ueparypenis :
Would It assist you ife answering your correspondents. to be able tojget accurate andKnrst-
hnnd information instantly fr£>m one or more departofefit heads, and to preferential case
able to
|j«i uu uuui muuuu uuc ui mine ucpanurc
the person called may be shaking to someone elsefor
price or
havfr
Would it be a convenience to you in interviewing a chsfomer to him to bear—
feMf
> his information or conversely
s in the without the,
person in the room bejjhg able to overhear a word? W ta j&r ~ „
• Would it make yo.gr Stenographer.cSvorth more sto you if ..yfiu could dictate at any
| moment, without your i'Typiste leaving Jiitfr desk, wasting time waMng to and from your office,
|Pvaiting while you are interrupted? . gfe mjr ;
It It would, let a Demonstration In Own Office under Working Conditions,
laYe Guarantee it would&interest you anil place youjunder no obligation.
The Dictograph o£§iDomm unJCgtion is endorsed by 50.000 busy
* *’ 1 — L “ whose names are given
numbers” with a Master Dic-
„ .... ... .... „ . or you-oan stand FIFTEEN*
AWAY. No Siird partyjpin. interrupt or “listen in.”
lftb.e following extract-.from lettefejust revived from Messrs. Lazarus,
Street :-Jf jjjjf Jgr
ictograbh is workjng.
w :
reaae
ur
sh to express
giving^Umetous
to inter estcfiMfflfents, and trust that it will
ness,
I M ,
ice.
ftny Ltd.
Head Office for Australasia <
SYDNEY
Agents in Australasia for Dictograph Telephones Ltd., London.
SYDNEY: Queen Street (off Regent Street). BRISBANE: 113 Eagle Street.
ADELAIDE: Cumming & Sons, Kent Town. PERTH: Little & Co., 851 Hay Street.
MELBOURNE: Oiderfleet, 474 Collins Street.
WELLINGTON, N,Z.: Lamson Despatch Co.. 16 Harris Street.
GENERAL
MANAGER
See tliis list, cxf*importanxt Houses ~tl\e Dicto^rapK
NEW SOUTH WALES.
•F, «T» Walker & Sons. Frozen Meat Exporters
Graham Bros., Ltd., Paper Merchants
Harry Shelley, Indentor.
O’Brien Publicity Co.
Roneo Company, Duplicating Machines.
Realty Assets Co., Ltd.
Cocks & Cb., Ltd., Warehouse.
Mauri Bros. & Thompson, Warehouse.
A. S-E. Ellis, Ltd., Timber Merchants
A. H Holdship, Solicitor.
Mercantile Mutual Association, Ltd.
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co., Ltd.
Phillips, Wheeler & Co., Estate Agents.
Lance. Giddlngs, Estate Agent.
Mclntosh & Sons, Auto. Agents.
Waterside, Cold Stores, Ltd.
Anderson A Co., Seed Merchants.
Australian Investment Agency. Ltd.
<l. Cody, Contractor.
Robert Little A Co., Merchants
T. Dim mock, Ltd., Printers.
Brown A Dureau, Indentors,
'W E. Smith, Ltd., Printers.
A. Hall A Co., Ltd., Furniture.
P 4. Firth, Ltd., Carton Manufacturers.
Bennett< & Wood, Ltd., Auto. Supplies.
Goodyear Tyre A Rubber Co. of A’sia, Ltd.
Govt. Savings Bank of N.B.W. (Moore Street).
Lazarus. Rosenfeld A v Co., M’f’rs’ Agents.
Fesq A Co., Ltd., Wine Merchants.
S. Gordon A Sons, Shirt Manufacturers.
Lowe’s, Ltd., Men’s Wear (George Street).
P Kleemo A Co.. Ltd., Wholesale Jewfellers.
VICTORIA.
A.D.F.A., Dried Fruits
Craig, Williamson Pty.. Ltd., Drapers,
London Stores, Ltd., Drapers, etc.
Myers (Bendigo Pty., Ltd.), Drapers.
Conlbere, G. .& C., Warehouse.
Greenwood Manufacturing & Agencies,-Ltd.
Laldlaw & Co.. Storekeepers,
Thomson & Co., Storekeepers.
Bor&dorff & Co., Warehouse.
George’s Pty., ltd., Drapers.
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Wool Merchants.
Myers, Drapers
Cox Bros. Pty., Ltd., Grocers, etc.
Junes Tyler & C 0.,. Ltd., Drapers.
Sniders & Abrahams Pty., Ltd., Tobacco Mer-
chants.
QUEENSLAND.
A. Stewart & Sons, Warehouse.
£lllOll Bros.. Warehouse.
J. Campbell & Sons, Ltd., Warehooee
Howe’s Cafe.
Howard Motov & Cycle Co.,.Ltd.
Pike Bros., Ltd., Men’s Wear.
Queensland Brewery, Ltd.
TASMANIA.
Fitz Gerald’s, Drapers.
A. father & Co., Drapers.
NEW ZEALAND.
Milo, ft Choyc; ltd-, Draper.-
Ceo. Court, Ltd., Drapers.


j
MAIL YOUR ORDER NOW FOR
COSY GARMENTS FOR WINTER
AT SPECIAL PRICES.
THIS ALL-WOOL SWEATER
SPECIAL
PRICE
811
Just about the cosiest garment you
could possibly have, handy for when
the cold winds begin to blow. Its
an all-wool Sweater that will cover your body
in warmth. In serviceable grey; buttons on
shoulder, easy to slip on.
Sizes 34, 36, 40 inch chest.
Regular Value, 10/6.
SPECIAL
PRICE
8/11
WRITE
FOR
FINNEY
NEW
FASHION
BOOK
DE LUXE
EDITION .
THIS ALL-WOOL COAT SWEATER
SPECIAL
PRICE
1311.
You’ll need a cosy Coat Sweater this
coming Winter—and here’s a fine
chance to secure it—at a saving of
several shillings. In serviceable Navy Blue,
all wool—and Australian made.
Sizes 36 and 40-inch chest.
Regular Value, 15/6.
SPECIAL
PRICE
13/11.
Finney, Isles & Co. Ltd.
THE BIG BLOCK,
BRISBANE.
i
m
j
POVERTY
POINT
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“D.”: I gather from recent contributors
that Bernard Shaw is no longer wanted on
the job, and that, by reason of his having
taken an unusual attitude towards the war,
loyal and devoted people consider him ex-
tinct. I suppose this indifference is re-
sponsible for the fact that two Shaw plays
are now running in London, and a Shaw book
"Tilln of Blooms-
bury,” at
Melbourne Royal.
Frank Freeman as
Richard, the young
lover.
is one of the books
most in demand in
England and
America. Further-
more, I have no
doubt it is due to
this disregard for
Shaw that you can-
not pick up an
English or Ameri-
c a n publication
without finding an
article setting forth
the reason why
everybody is fed up
with G.B.S. The
same desire to be
rid of Shaw ex-
plains, too, the
frequency with
which I discover
photographs an d
caricatures of the
man in London and
New York journals.
Never was indif-
ference so fervently
expressed, never
has the desire to
bury a man away
from the light of
day led to so vigorous a display of his
personality. If the wish to exterminate
Shaw continues to develop on the same
lines, his immortality is assured.
“Harrison O.”: “Tilly of Bloomsbury,”
at Melbourne Royal, is alleged to satirize the
Bull snobocraey, but reveals the author as
the greatest snob of all. I feel sure that the
haughty Mrs. Mainwaring does not consider
herself more superior to Percy, the draper’s
assistant, than does Percy’s creator; yet
unless English drapers’ assistants are im-
measurably inferior in speech, manners and
deportment to Australians of the same class,
the character is a humorless libel. This
young man dresses like a low comedian and
talks and behaves like the entire population
of a well-stocked lunatic asylum. If there
are many of his breed about (and superior
English playwrights mostly insist that there
are) they constitute a shocking reflection
upon J. Bull's education system. In this
case it is doubtful if Percy reflects anything
except the snobbish viewpoint of a writer
who served a long apprenticeship to a social
troglodyte like Blackwood’s Magazine, and
who. while condescendingly preaching that
kind hearts are more than coronets, associ-
ates Percy’s cardiacal attributes with aitch-
less ignorance and the outward and visible
signs of bounderhood, so as to throw a large-
sized sop to Norman blood.
“Naming”: Whether Verbrugghen's
demand for an increase of over 200 per cent,
in salary is justified or not, no one disputes
that his genius has wrought out of the
musical chaos of a few years ago a band
of players to marvel at. People with know-
ledge of the great orchestras of Boston. Leip-
sic. Milan, Vienna and London rank it
among the world's famous players. Before
the end of the year Verbrug. may be gone.
I suggest, therefore, that records be taken
of performances and offered for sale by the
gramophone cos. As a revenue-producer the
method is not scorned by Melba, Galli Curci
or Caruso, and it would turn the Sydney
Conservatorium into a mint.
“Lou Par”: Winifred O’Connor refuses to
believe the Poverty Point par. that she has
been in Australia before. Mclntosh’s new
star is a mere youngster. She celebrated
her 20th birthday on the journey to Aus-
tralia, and is no way related to the lady
of the same name who lifted a soprano voice
in the Clark-Meynell productions of 10 years
ago. Winifred has been playing in “The
Lilac Domino” in London, taking the prin-
cipal role in that production. She is to
play in revue for a few weeks prior to step-
ping into her old part in the “Domino” when
it goes up at the Tivoli.
From a recent Argus :
Wanted to Hire —Two big billy-goats, one week
from Saturday next for Stiffy and Mo. Apply Bijou
Theatre.
This is how the theatre gets itself in bad
odor.
“M. 8.”: “Jake B.” (B. 18/3/’2O) sug-
gests that 11. Fraser-Simson did not write
the music of the “Maid of the Mountains.”
Rubbish ! The score is published as written
by Fraser-Simson, and it is printed so on
every copy. Jals. W. Tate has merely
written some additional numbers. Alto-
gether there are 23 numbers: Fraser-Simson
wrote 19 of them, Tate being responsible
for the rest. Not a solitary number was
written by Tate for the production of the
play in Manchester, of which I was talking.
Incidentally, the Manchester Guardian did
not mention Miss Lonnen at all in its
criticism. The notice is on page six of the
issue of December 27, 1917, and I have
just referred to it. “Jake” is a misprint,
surely, for “Fake.”
“Machete”; Writing of dear little Flo
Graupner no one has mentioned that she did
some very good work with Henry
Bracy’s co. before she joined the Firm.
One recalls her as the soubrette in
“The Beggar Student,” where her dainty
figure and esprit were an effective foil to
the somewhat ponderous Lilian Tree. In
Cellier’s “Sultan of Mocha,” too, she was
charming, and made a big hit with a song
"Talk of Society.” Her Gianetta and Varley’s
Tessa in the Gondoliers were a combina-
tion no one who saw it will ever forget.
Flo Young was content to play Casilda, the
Duke’s daughter, then.
“0.K.”: It is whispered of Theodore
Leonard (the inventor of the yarn probably
meant it to belittle the reputation of the
comedian) that he was originally a sailor,
like Wallace Brownlow, whose ship touched
at Fremantle or Albury when the Cool-
gardie gold rush was on, whereupon he and
some of his mates took to digging the land
instead of ploughing the sea. They had no
luck on the mining field, says the story;
but it happened that a theatrical co. came
along and gave Leonard his first stage experi-
ence, after which he got to London Some-
how and made good. The yarn is not en-
dorsed by Leonard, who talks of himself
as an Australian native with only boyish
recollections of the country, nor is it either
convincing or in any way such a story as
an outspoken actor of his type would want
to suppress. There’s nothing unusual in
sailors cutting away from ship to go gold-
hunting, nor any reason why one who might
have been a crude amateur in the Cool-
gardie-rush days shouldn’t be an imported
J.C.W. comedian to-day. As a matter of
fact, Theodore Leonard seems not so old
as an original Coolgardie rusher would be,
and the book of press notices which he puts
at the disposal of any interviewer lends no
color of truth to the yarn. There are reasons
seemingly why the emphatic little comedian's
account of his own career should be more
easily believed than what certain other
people say about him.
Eastern Tours. Ltd., is the name of a
new combine, with a capital of a million,
which has already secured control of over
200 theatres in Asia. .T. F. Madan, an
Indian financier, is at the head of it, bi t
it has English directors, and relies mainly
on London for the actors, who are being
engaged for two years, to work from Bom-
bay to Japan by way of Simla, Rangoon
and China.
“Glen II.": Exit Sam Walsh, English
comedian, who scored both in musical com-
edy and at the ’alls. He was here a dozen
years ago with The Merrymakers, the clever
little co. which made the mistake of opening
in Melbourne in the Princess’s, and failed
to please an audience that had come to see
an elaborate production and remained to
scoff at a show which relied upon the skill
of its performers rather than on that of the
stage carpenter. The season was disastrous,
but several members of the co.—notably
Herbert Clayton, who was snapped up by the
Firm for musical-comedy work, and Betty
Ohls, who became “The Merry Widow” when
Carrie Moore committed sudden matrimony—
met with prosperity. There was no opening
here, at the price he demanded, for Sam
Walsh, the cleverest of the bunch, and he
took his amusing monologues-at-the-piano
back to the London music-halls, where for
years he was an expensive attraction. He
was only 42 at the end.
“T. 0.1.”: The Ned Kelly drama “Ostra-
cised” (B. 25/3/’2O) was billed for the old
Queen’s Theatre, York-street, Sydney, about
1881 while J. I. Keogh was manager. On the
first night, after the overture, Keogh stepped
to the front of the curtain and announced
that the police had banned the play. Uproar
ensued. Some men-of-war’s men from the
Raleigh then in port got at loggerheads with
the police; reinforcements were rushed up,
the lights were put out, and so were the
rioters.
“Iv. ’: Anyone who has a light-running
stage gondola should call at Sydney Royal
and persuade the J.C.W. people to buy 1 ’ it.
In an age of ball-bearings, pneumatic tyres
and silent power no grand-opera gondola
should stop dead and then start off again
as if something lmd bitten it, as Giulietta’s
did at the kick-off of “Hoffmann.”
“Yarra Ben”: I discovered a quaint
"Tales of Hoffmann
at Sydney Royal.
Fred Collier as
Spalanzani.
volume in the Pub-
lic Library the other
night—the “Fun-
niest Song Rook in
the World/’ one of
old King Cole’s
publications, need-
less to say. Turn-
ing over the pages
I came across three
comic songs writ-
ten by the Mel-
bour n e-born Os-
wald Stoll, the
present-day vaude-
ville knight of Fog-
town. The words
were, as one might
expect, unimpeach-
able. Each ditty
was of the “domes-
tic” order,, and all
were about as
“funny” as a gro-
cer’s bill. But they
were interesting as
evidence of Stoll’s
early scribbling
propensities. H e
no longer writes
poems for music-
hall pros., but employs his pen at composing
learned volumes on finance and Herbert
Spencerian books of philosophy.
“Orpheus”: At Sydney Tivoli last week
Peter Dawson was singing to crowded
houses. The audience, accustomed to solicit
extra numbers, one evening yelled itself
hoarse. Peter finished a bunch of songs
and then faced an audience raving for more.
“The Bandoleero!” “My Old Shako!” “I
Fear No Foe!” “Will o’ the Wisp!” came
from all quarters. Suddenly a female voice
shrieked from the gallery. “What about
‘Coming Home’V” The yells of the house
drowned Peter’s apologies.
“Hugh Stone”: I was going to school in
Pitt-street when Maggie Moore first
struck Sydney, in 1874 or thereabouts.
Round about where the Criterion Theatre
now stands were then a lot of tumble-down
shops, and one of the chief recreations of
Pitt-street scholars was playing leap-frog
over the tombstones that stood in the old
burial-ground now occupied by Sydney
Town Hall. Forty-five years ago—and the
clever woman is still delighting audiences!
I’ve just seen her in “Kindlin’.” It’s a
wonderful record.
Jim Perry, now mumming in Kate How-
arde’s “ ’Possum Paddock,” is a member of
the old Australian Perry circus family, and
himself knows the sawdust game from side-
wall to king-pole.
“Record Room”: Maurice Dudley has had
a good many opportunities to play Dame in
the “Mother Hubbard” pantomime as Barry
Lupino’s understudy, and he puts up a very
fair performance. Though Dudley is gener-
ally thought of as a dramatic or light comedy
actor, he is by no means new to low comedy.
In England years ago he had a term as
understudy to Dan Leno.
"Minim’': After the first performance of
Maeterlinck’s “Blue Bird” as a grand opera
at the Metropolitan Opera House, New York.
Broadway critics were fairly unanimous in
the opinion that the s£ory did not lend itself
to operatic treatment, and. anyhow, the
music was mediocre. Albert Wolff, one of
the conductors at the Metropolitan, was
responsible for the score. Maeterlinck was
“TALES OF
HOFFMANN ,”
AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Carl Formes as Dapertutto.
present with his 19-year-old bride, and th"
takings, which were to be distributed
among French. Belgian and American ~
charities, amounted to nearly £lO,OOO.
“Bertha Bodkin”: A theatrical manager
with a penchant for “announcements” lately
had the tail cut off one of his “few remarks”
in a rude and cruel manner. Tottie had
responded repeatedly to encores, but there
was a bit of a delay when the crowd called
for an effort involving a change of costume.
The manager seized tin* opportunity to dash
into the spotlight. “Miss Tootler will oblige
with the ‘Goo-goo Girls' in a moment,” he
burbled. “I have just seen Miss Tootler.
She is now dressing.” Then the gods lifted
the roof.
“Orb”: That treaty standby. “East
Lynne,” is known to mummers as “Good old
Mary Anne,” because it has so often helped
paralysed ghosts to walk or totter on a little
further. I’ve “gone on” for every male part
in the ancient wail, on different tours, except
Little Willie. I’ve always barred that,
though I have known Levisons and Lord
Mount Severns who crawled under Willie’s
bed and babbled his lines, whilst a local and
inarticulate cheild posed as the dying seraph.
In the Backblocks Barbara Hare or Corney
Carlyle does this habitually. I think Robert
Ilollyford’s production of “East Lynne” was
the most cheerfully unusual version I’ve
struck. Bob himself played a comic Irish-
man, an “East Lynne” character invented, 1
believe, by the late John F. Sheridan; but
Hollyford out-Sheridaned the original. II"
ended the first act by dashing into Carlyle’s
sedate, early-Victorian drawing-room and
yelling at Lady Isabel, “Have ye heard the
news ? . Old Mother Moloney’s poley cow’s
had twins !” and he persisted in referring to
Barbaz-a Hare as “Miss Rabbit.” And this
not only in faz*-off Bungledoo, but in New-
castle (N.S.W.) and big towns like that!
A brother pro. tells this of a handsome
actor long a favorite in Australia:—
When he knew he must die he became very
anxious to confess his sins, and a clergyman was
sent for. The reverend gentleman went into the
sick room, and was left with the dying man. An
hour passed, two hours passed, three hours passed,
and lunch was sent in to the clergyman. The day
faded, the night came on, and the reverend was
provided with another meal. At 11 there was no
news from the sick room, but at about one in the
morning the clergyman came forth, looking very
pale and worn. “Yes,” he said, “he is gone, poor
man. He did his utmost, but when he passed away
had only confessed up to the year 1892.”
“75” : During the war play-titles of four
or more words—“ The Man Who Stayed at
Home,” “The Man Who Came Back.”
“The Old Lady Shows Her Medals,” etc. —
became the fashion; but lately authors have
rushed to the other exti’eme by making a
habit of the one-word title. Recent examples
include “Lightnin’.” “Kindling.” “Kat-
inka,” “Maytime,” “Summertime,” “Medo-
rah” (a new musical play in which Ada
Reeve has scored a London hit), “Carni-
val” (no relation to Compton Mackenzie’s
novel L “’S’Nice,” “Rossini” (with that
promising young actress Sara Bernhardt in
the cast), “Reparation” and “Curiosity.”
A bedroom farce entitled “!” may be
expected at any moment.
“C. Troop”: Wherever there’s a swaying
mob, struggling for railway, race or theatre
tickets, you seldom see any in the scrim-
mage wearing the returned soldier’s badge:
but if the intending purchasers are queued
you can bet your life that a Digger has
given them the office to get into line.
WAYSIDE PIPERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The charm of open-air dancing has not been fully
recognised here, though in America it is greatly in
'ogue. Some exponents are allowed to exercise
their grace and agility in Central Park, New York,
but here the officials..,.do not let their imaginations
soar any higher than grass-plots. .. .and band- 1
stands.”— The Sux, in an account of a dancing per-
formance called “The Wayside l'iper’’ at Ascliam
Girls’ School.
Oh, you sordid city,planners, with your narrow-
minded manners.
Whose confined imagination knows no further inspira-
tion
Than another railway station for a paralytic train,
Mark the high aesthetic way of the cultured U.S.A.,
And be influenced, i pray, to remodel the Domain!
Then no more shall Sunday quiet be disturbed by
rant and riot,
By the Bolshevik and traitor, by the long-haired
N agitator,
By the loud-mouthed legislator, by the prophets and
the quacks,
By esoteric Hindus, or by Ryan or by Hughes,
Or the Rabelaisian views of the mystic maniacs.
But instead the town shall rally in a Brobdingnagian
ballet,
When, on lively legs and nimble, to the blare of
brass and cymbal,
It shall whirl the gills from Pyrnblc and from
Ascham to and fro;
While each t.vpiste, .navvy, clerk, shall assemble in
Ilyde Park,
And proceed from .dawn till dark on the light fan-
tastic toe.
The patricians of the peerage, and the Pommies from
the steerage,
They shall foot it willy-nilly, from the Rocks to
Ivirribilli,
Nor carouse one-half so shrilly as the city oligarchs,
Who, from office-boy to mayor, gambol gaily, pair
and pair,
In the classic open-air of the Great Australian Parks.
N.S.W.
KENNETH SLESSOR.


=0
rat
fYi
e
®\i'S
i 11
piij
H
?> HU
I
:\ 4
I
i
%
m
Mi
Wm
fn
i
i
WW If
mm/F
m
/
i
m
IM
-
; ‘ (
fff
A*
a
m
A
)
m
w>
\
■P&k.
$
iii
n
-X
*3
ffi
tfjVTW
MS
sST
fP
&
Av
0
\ U
X«
A’
£
©
TX
W
%
P
MW* A
i;JiL-
k
? 4 i
©
&&£
se
■x>
/«■»
as
$5
&
S!
ms
sa
%
o
guYA\>.
!h^
m\
m
m
HI
/
m
m
AS
p
A fl
! \*i
SB
m
V
K' v v:
<®s*
:«*
m
r &
P.
ni
Wi
n
&
t 3
5
/.HI
m
C 2
Vfyv
m
z'
\X\
W.
m
¥$
V\v
Maw
mn
M
i V
« K~
m
},V X>'
>££U
wm
jt.
i »
m
vt
ASiPkF'^M
•%mm
m
$
BUU t i V
«\\\lV: ! :
%
to.
m
mm
m
m
mmm
w
*§
/r.fMlm
r^fkm
i i
\S
YZI
S 4
Wl
~—! S //« J
1’
f
\\H
gsag
i#-/
// 1
<Ci
mi////// j
jA i s .^i“'?-.'
»
MS
ns
HRS®
mm
m
m,
Y/A
%
35
%
S 3
S 2
imniiiuu
///
ill
mw
\i>
.vJ, 1 IV
m
MX p»s
rMU/f*
o' TVMfa
z-v ?
m///^m
i\
w
m
wm
n
‘iX-
yWTTTTTTTTfTTnTfWTHTHWWJJJ
H
7/7
Ej-WT 7F
pw
illll
%
£
o r .. s
w
» ! *>
*'u<- 'm^
a
The Tread
of a Tyre
denotes its use. Every road is ridable in comfort with ‘United States* Nobby
Tread Tyres. Motor where you will city street, back block track, sandy
reach —‘NOBBIES’ will get you there.
Notice the nobs. Each is set at an irregular angle —scientifically determined.
These nobs ‘feel* the road. They hold it, to the point of preventing both side
and back slipping. They give traction and safety.
Just the tyre for the hard-worked car.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING GARAGES AND
UNITED STATES RUBBER COMPANY
(AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
W. A. SORRELL, Sydney.
HOWARD MOTOR & CYCLE CO., LTD.,
Brisbane.
BURGESS BROS., LTD., Hobart.
IRVINE & McEACHERN, Launceston,
CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.), LTD., Perth


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE anti COOLOARPIE.
Harvey’s Special
sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern. Sydney.
LEWIS
WhITTY;^
mak^rls
“Hang them
hy the Loop.”
“LESLIE”
Salt LicKs.
“Leslie” Salt Licks are now made in Australia!
The demand lias hitherto exceeded the supply, but from
now on there will be ample to provide for the
requirements of the whole of Australia.
Never mind the imitations —insist upon
the original Liek —“Leslie’s”—the one
free from dirt, alum and other im-
purities. Best for all animals.
700,000 Cases Sold Last Year.
All Storekeepers, Produce
Merchants, Saddlers and
Blacksmiths throughout
Australasia.
A Merciful Man I* Mtfrciful to Mis Brgfe
TF 7
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T LET TINKER
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
Imported Chrysolaus is a red-hot Don-
caster favorite; and unless the handsome grey falls
dead on his way to the post, this is going to be
one of the poorest betting Doneasters on record. Yec
favorites have rarely fared well in the great race;
and while Chrysolaus looks a winner, the wise
man will check his tendency to plunge, recalling the
boil-overs of the past. Included in the field are
four Futurity and three Newmarket winners; a
Villiers and Doncaster winner; and a prad that ran
one of the fastest miles ever registered at Randwick.
Also a nag which ran well in the last Villiers, and
carrying lOst. 21b. easily appropriated a mile at
Rosehill last week —and he is weighted for Satur-
day at 7st. Anything that starts flat-footed from
the mile with this lot has a hurried contract on
hand. Chrysolaus begins indifferently. Should he
be drawn close in his chances will be heavily dis-
counted: the winner of the Doncaster is nearly
always in the first flight at the end of the first
furlong. Still, form points to him as the most
likely winner. It also suggests that Eusebius, Wedge,
George Graves, Laddie Blue, Kenelis, All Aboard
and possibly Cobi may argue the point with more
or less persistence.
# * * *
The Sydney Cup problem, so far as the
topweights go, turns on whether Artilleryman can
give Poitrel and Kennaquhair over half a stone
worse than weight-for-age in a handicap and beat
them. The writer will only believe he can do it
when it has been done. A three-year-old set to
carry 9st. 21b. over two miles against proved stayers
is undertaking a big job. With all their weight
Poitrel, 9st. 91b., and Kennaquhair, 9st. 51b , are en-
titled to very respectful consideration. But there
are others further on the list, and among them are
the two best-handicapped horses in the race —lan ’Or,
7st. 91b., and Posiastre, 7st. Likewise there is
Millieme at 7st. 121 b. and King of the Sea, Bst.
Taking everything into consideration lan ’Or, Kenna-
quhair and Millieme ought to be somewhere in the
picture at the end. It is against Poitrel that he is
not a good horse in a big field. He is too small.
But with a reasonable passage and a good position
at the last half-mile the little chap can be relied
upon to put a very serious question to everything
else. Kennaquhair is particularly good in a
crowd, and, mainly because of this, looks like
being the hardest of the top-weights for the more
lightly burdened crowd to battle with.
With only a few exceptions the Victorian
horses sent over for the A.J.C. meeting are not a
dangerous-looking lot. Any visiting nag is dangierous
in handicaps, of course, if it has a bit of class to
recommend it and the change of air is doing it
good. But if there are any rods in pickle lor the
Randwick meeting they will probably come from
local stables, for one thing, familiarity with the
track gives the locals an advantage.
* * * *
The Rover, a gelded three-year-old that
flies John Wren's colors, is talked of in Melbourne
because he won a maiden plate at Moonee Valley the
other day. The Rover was backed down to even
money, and it may have been that some of the others
were waiting for the hot favorite while he was
whipping in the field as the result of his getting
left at the barrier. When he started to make up
his ground Wren’s horse certainly passed the others
as though they were standing still. But they didn't
test The Rover’s capabilities. They were, triers or
otherwise, a crowd of duffers, and the “good thing”
simply donkey-licked them. The breeding of The
Rover suggests that he is more likely to pull off a
long-distance handicap than an important sprint. His
evil-tempered 6ire, Sea Prince, seems to be getting
stock that can stay, and his old mother. Reminder,
brought Blinker into the world nearly 20 years ago.
Blinker unexpectedly ran third for the Melbourne
Cup after shaping poorly in the Melbourne Cup,
whereupon the Y.R.C. stewards called old Jimmy
W’ilson, the owner, to book, and hinted their doubts
as to his honesty. The old schemer professed to be
broken-hearted. He was the most ancient trainer
on the Turf, and his honesty had never, no never,
before been questioned officially 1 As a matter of
fact, his name was a by-word for cunning and
mystery. The only fault to be found with the
V.R.C. stewards in this matter was that they had
not given Jimmy previous cause to expect it.
* * * *
“0.K.” : When Carbine won his first Syd-
ney Cup,’ carrying 9st., he was giving only 121 b. to
his frequent antagonist Melos, who ran him very
close in the race. When Lord Cardigan, as a three-
year-old, humped Bst. 71b. to the fore, a mare of
the same age (Sweet Nell) ran third with a like
weight up. But, seemingly, Artilleryman will have
no three-year-old as good as Melos or Sweet Nell to
ON THE HILL, FLEMINGTON.
ONE-DAY-YEAR PUNTER (to regular with binoculars) : “ What's the ’orse in front,
Mister? I believe it’s my 'orse!”
REGULAR: “Well, if it's your ’orse, why the biases aren’t you inside, where you ought
to be, instead of breathing beer and onions in my face!”
worry him in this Sydney Cup, unless the question-
able Millieme has greatly improved since the Spring,
and is a real stayer. After the gelding had run
third to Artilleryman and Richmond Main in the
A.J.C. Derby, and had beaten Rossini two days
later, he had the reputation of “a great stayer,”
but in the Melbourne Derby and Cup he showed no
stamina at all. Only on the presumption that he
was off-color at Flemington can Millieme be reckoned
to have a chance. For myself I am inclined to think
the son of Piastre well worth considering for a
pace. In the Ma'ibyrnong Plate of 1918 Millieme
and Artilleryman finished second and third to Gam-
blers’ Gold, and it is something of a coincidence
that these three top-notch colts of last season should,
at time of writing, look a likely combination to
back for the Doncaster and Sydney Cup double.
Troytown, winner of the Liverpool Grand
National last week, is one of the three Irish starters,
all of whom were strongly fancied. He is ridden
in all his races by John Anthony, the famous ama-
teur. Troytown was handicapped at list. 91b. as
against Pocthlyn’s 12s-t. 71b. ; which weight Mrs.
Peel’s wonderful jumper carried to victory over the
Aintree course last year. Pocthlvn had a bad f ill
at exercise a couple of months ago, which may have
affected his form. The Turk 11. and The Bore,
second and third respectively, were rank outsiders.
* * * *
Crusader is having a great spin in Adel-
aide. He annexed the Bosanquet Handicap (ljm.)
in 2min. 71sec. at the A.R.C. meeting, and created
a new local record —three seconds worse thau
Cetigne’s, however.
* * - * *
Racehorses in Bananaland lead the strenu-
ous life. At Albion Park (Q.) Veresdale won the
Second Division Handicap and the Purse; Darginnie
the First Division Handicap and the Plate; and
Prince Manlin, who won the Third Division Handi-
cap, ran third in the Plate. A noticeable feature
was the expansive prices obtainable about the nags
before their second winning effort.
* * * »
As a result of the tennis championships
held this year in Adelaide, R. V. Thomas and
O’Hara Wood seem to be about the same in skill,
though the latter can stay better. Thomas, much
as in Melbourne, won two sets out of the first three;
then the more powerful man won the last two.
Together they smashed their way easily through all
opposition in the Doubles championship. Thomas,
with Mrs. Molesworthy, won the Mixed from Wood
and Miss Browning. Rice, who had been beaten a
day or two before by ‘Thomas, had the right of
challenging Wood for the Singles championship, but
proved to have no hope with the younger man, to
whom he was giving away about 18 years.
* * * *
“O. Blin” : By winning the Singles Cham-
pionship and annexing the Doubles with partner
Thomas in Adelaide lately, Pat O’Hara Wood has
demonstrated his right to be regarded as one of
the toughest propositions in the tennis world to-
day. A while back I expressed the view that he
threatened the supremacy of Patterson, and as he is
going to England shortly I think that Patterson
might give him a game before he leaves, just to
settle who is the actual champion of the Common-
wealth. For business reasons Patterson has not
been seen in the tournaments where Wood has
appeared, and, so far as my memory serves me, did
not meet him in the World s Championship at
Wimbledon. It would be a sporting act on his
part to challenge Patrick to ary exhibition match.
The battle would arouse immense interest and pull
a big “gate.”
► * * *
The wickets had most of the batsmen
guessing when the twelfth round of Sydney grade
cricket started. The Wests-Gordon match, which,
on paper,- promised to be interesting, became. a
batting display in the “hit or miss” style against
bowlers gone stale. Of Gordon’s six for 346 Dwyer
got a graceful 91, Diamond a lusty 84 (both n.o ).
Glebe put up a respectable 241 against Middle Har-
bor. Morgan and Berry got more than half the
runs between them, and Kcllcwiv then felled six
of the villagers for 26. Mailey bowled best for the
Surfites, though his average as usual suffered from
their fielding. Balmain gave Waverley a nasty
showing up on the Boneyarders own ground ; Folkard,
with six wickets for 47, being chiefly to blame.
Hendry and Kippax handed in 53 between them.
Balmain have four wickets in hand and aie 64 runs
to the good. Waverley’s fielding was first-class.
O’Keefe’s 114 (not out) v. Sydney was a godsend
to the weak Paddington batting side. Pad. are all
out for 254, and have a fair chance of playing a
draw. Bowling for Sydney, Asher as usual was
rather expersive, his five wickets costing 91,. though
backed up by excellent fielding. Norths “got the wind
up” in their match against ’Varsity. Trenerry
was chiefly responsible. His six wickets averaged
little more than six runs apiece, and the whole side
collapsed for 64. Uni. Made 224. 0. Cumberland
did well to get Petersham out for 240. Coogan
(seven for 89) bowled with excellent judgment.
Andrews and Fanerv. of Petersham, gave a clinking
batting display. The orchardists have lost five of
their be3t for 59, but, whatever happens, they can’t
lose their place in the competition.
Vic. pennant cricket finished the prelim-
inary rounds on Saturday, and’ Melbourne, Fitzroy,
South Melbourne and Northcote will be the semi-
finalists. The last-mentioned got a place through
defeating Essendon by 166 runs to 153, and Easts
lost their chance through going down to Souths by
262 to 129. For Souths C. Qrimmett took 11
wickets for 95. The lone century-smiter was inter-
state wicketkeeper Ellis (Prahran). who continued
his 96 n.o. innings and rattled up 129 without losing
his wicket.
* » * *
The outcome of the 220yds. test races
between half a dozen Sydney swimmers is that the
ASA. comm’ttre has recommended W. Herald
(Manly) and F. Cotton (North Sydney) for inclusion
in the Olvmpic games contingent. Herald won two
events, and Cotton took the other with the best
time (2min. 33sec.). Herald’s efforts earlv in t’’e
season showed him capable of 2min. 31 3-ssec. for
the trip. Which, however, is well below world's
championship form.
Victoria will probably nominate Beaurepaire and
Tom Logan ; and Ivan" Stedman has a show, having
swum luO yards in 574 sec. recently. Queensland’s
choice should be S. Springfield. In the likeiy event
of more than five men being nominated, tne Anal
selections will be made by 11. Snape (Vic.), W. W.
Hill (N.S.W.), and I). Carter (Q.). The nominees
will compete betore them in a test race in the
Domain baths, Sydney.
Fanny Durac-k -easily won the N.S.W.
220yds. ladies’ swimming championship at Sydney
on Saturday from M. Lovelace and M. Mealing. Time,
3min. 4sec. She took the Australian 220yds. cham-
pionship in 3min. 3 2-ssec. It was a long way
behind the champion’s best (2min. 53sec.), but
there was no serious opposition. Mina Wylie won
the lOOvds. breast-stroke in, lmin. 32sec.
* * * *
Bob Spears took the bulk of the prize-
money at the League of Wneeimen carnival last
week. On Wednesday he won the mile scratch easily;
and on Saturday he was first in the mile handicap
from scratch in 2min. 1 l-ssec., defeated Alt' Grenda
and Hans Ohrt in a match race, and outclassed the
best in the five-mile scratch race in 14min. 0 3-osec.
In heats and finals he saddled five times and was
first over the mark on each trip.
* * * *
Willie Spencer, who shifted . bikes and
baggage home to America last week, knocked the
world s competition quarter-mile record down to
2'sec. at the Victorian carnival. The Federal
Cycling Council and Vic. League of Wheelmen have
granted the necessary certificate.
Motor-cyclist Fred Berry’s whirl last
week (with C. Saintv in the side-car) knocked the
Sydney-Melbourne revord (565 miles) down to 20hrs.
38min. 11. W. Parsons had previously taken 20miii.
longer. Berry held the record .in 1918 with 22min.
20see. Barnet Glass Boomerang tyres were used.
Balmain’s fine form was the feature in
the open events at St. Ignatius’ regatta at Sydney
on Saturday. The club was first in the Senior Chal-
lenge eights, the maiden fours and the junior fours.
In the eights there was less than a length between
‘Balmain, Leichhardt and Mosman at the finish. The
crew (stroked by S. S. Amess) was the same as
landed the N. S. Wales eight-oar championship and
Deloitte Cup recently.
* * * *
East Sydney v. Western Suburbs chal-
lenge athletic match at Svdrev on S't rdav wn«
decided on a novel plan. Competitors were restricted
to one event apiece. Easts won by 25 points to
The bright spots were It. G. Piggott’s -Minds (54
l-ssec.) and T. D. Elliott’s 100yds. (10 3-6 sec.).
Jack Green held his title of bantam
champion of Australia by a fair margin of points
at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night. Both he
and Jerry Sullivan, the challenger, weighed Bst. sjib.
. Sullivan is Green’s equal physically, and his condi-
tion was better, but he lacks the other lad’s art.
During 15 dull rounds Sullivan was consistently out-
boxed —not to any remarkable extent, but enough
for Green’s purpose. The losing youth’s corner
then recommended him to go after a knockout. For
the rest of the bout he displayed furious energy and
remarkable punching power. It took Green all his
time to stem the avalanche, and the display so
impressed part of the crowd that whole-souled hoots
greeted the perfectly correct verdict of Joe Wallis.
Jack Johnson is said to be returning to
America, provided his lawyers assure him that he
can’t be given more than 18 months for the offence
which caused his hurried departure several years
ago. He was indicted under the U.S. White Slave
Traffic law. He is willing to serve anything up to
a couple of years in order to escape from Mexico,
where he now is. He does not anticipate that Europe
Will te an endurable place for an indigent negro,
with a large appetite, during his time.
* *r * *
No pug who has been any time at the
game bears fewer marks of it or> his countenance
than Georges Carpentier. It is not a matter of
skill. The Frenchman has been well and truly
Poked more than once, notably bv the second-rate
slugger Papke, who did so indifferently in Aus-
tralia a decade ago. Carpentier’s best defence
against an “outing” is Deschamps, who iumps into
the ring, and so gets his charge disqualified vvliqr.
a disfiguring beating seems certain. Johnson is
unmarked on his merits. No one has ever hit him
to any real purpose. Jess Willard mostly leant
on him during the dreary * contest which brought
the heavyweight crown back to the white race. For
a skilled boxer, Smith carries as many signs
of his trade as anyone.
* * * *
Cambridge won the boat-race on Satur-
day. J. A. Campbell, the well-known Vic. oarsman,
was No. 6 in the winning crew. H. Cairns, of
Adelaide, and N. McNeil, of Melbourne, were in
the Oxford boat.
* * * *
R. B. Jeffreys, who is a real horse-master,
as distinguished from the impostors who figure in
buckjump shows, gave an exhibition of the art at
Sydney University last week. He took an unbroken
filly, and, with nothing but a headstall and halter,
patience and skilled handling, had her as tractable
as a lamb within an hour. Of course no avenge
crowd would pay to watch such dull work. What
they want is the spectacle of an animal half-mad with
terror and pain (induced either >y a fiank-rope or
by the insertion of some form of torture under the
saddle) which either dislodges its r : ler or is flogged
to a standstill. The Jeffreys method might ad-
vantngeonslv be taught io Rav blin ks schools. The
only attention the other style deserves is that of the
police!
The shag, feared and detePt’d elsewhere,
is to be brought into the protected class at Yanco
(N.S.W.). It destroys the yabbies which ruin the
banks of the irrigation channels. Tabbies are good
eating—they belong to the cravfish family—but
thev do more damage than they are worth on irri-
gation areas.
Warrant-officer Tom Burrows, defending
his title of world’s champion club-swinger, recertly
defeated Martin Pobr ; Ua. an aspirant for the doubt-
ful ho"or. At the pud of 30 hours’ continuous foil'"
Burrows was awarded the possible 500 points and
Dobrilla 385.
THE PUNTER'S STORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Put not your faith in tipsters” is an adage often
heard
And oft ignored by puuters when their lust for gam
is stirred,
Since hope of easy money is a lure that cannot fail —
But ere I point the moral I’ll proceed to tell the
tale.
Horse poets often spin a yarn in metres just like
this,
But none has told tho history of Bunting’9 Baby
Bliss.
It was back in 'BB, sir; the race the Miners’ Cup ;
The Babe was nicely weighted and young Bobby
Long was up
To ride her. ’Twas a chestnut, sir, and all the
heads agreed
That nothing else was in with her for stamina and
speed.
I got my little bit on when the odds were four to
one,
But they had dropped to evens long before the race
was run.
The Baby looked a picture as she cantered down the
course;
I could stake my life upon her: I have never seen
a horse
That could hold a candle to her in appearance, and
I cried
To Mick McGee, the trainer: “Why, the mare is
home and dried 1”
Shrewd Michael wore a smile of satisfaction on his
face;
He stood to win a tidy little fortune on the race.
The starter got the field in hand; a cry “They’re
off!” was heard.
(This indicated that the race had started.) Humming
Bird
Was first to make the running; corning next wa3
Welcome Find
(An easy name for rhyming), with the Baby close
behind.
The Babe was going nicely, and it seemed to Mike
and me
That nothing stood between us and the bookies’
A s. d.
But why describe what followed? It were vain
now to relate
The story of the Miners’ Cup of 1888.
I reckoned Baby Bliss would win, so risked my final
quid,
And, I am pleased to say, sir, it’s precisely what
she did!
You think the story dull, sir? Well, it may be, but
I’ll bet
It’s quite the most original of turf rhymes written
yet 1
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


What Do You Know About Footwork?
Do you know how to quickly and
easily slip away from the bull-like
rush of a heavy, burly antagonist;
Do you know how to sidestep neatly,
and swiftly so that his most \ iolent
efforts are wasted, and he soon be-
comes “blown” and helpless 1 Can
you move scientifically and gracefully
around him so that he becomes “tied
in a knot,” and at the mercy of the
“K. 0.,” which you can put over
when it pleases you?
Scientific Boxing by Post.
I teach you all the points of the game, beginning
with a thorough grounding in the rudiments ot
boxing. 1 take you through every move, punch,
stop and counter—l teach you facts about ringcraft
based on iny own practical experience—that are
quite out of the ordinary. Hundreds of enthusiastic
students throughout Australia are practising the
Baker Boxing Course under my own personally dic-
tated advice and criticism.
Just write your name and address across this adver-
tisement, and post it to me with three stamps for
postage, and I will send you FIIEE a copy of my
interesting book, “Scientific Boxing in the Home,”
which tells all about my methods, fees, etc.
ĵ
j
“Snowy” Baker K.O. Boxing
Gloves, in two Grades, 16/6
and 23/6 per Set. Post Free.
Each set specially selected
and guaranteed; 6oz. or Boz.,
large, medium, small sizes.
REG. L.
(‘Snowy’)
BAKER
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,”
227 Municipal Buildings, 82 Oxford Street (Cor. Crown Street), SYDNEY.
(~IMICEFIELD
RegJ.
MOTOR. OIL
BRITISH and BEST.
A Correct Grade for
Every Type of
Water- and
Air-cooled Engine.
&tULATES
C.C. Wakefield § Co. Ltd.
5 Moore Street, SYDNEY,
and LONDON.
V>v
IV —
./■
a.
I
y
The Hall Mark
of Quality
AU Over the World*
m
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOB
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAD ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 U.P.0.,
MELBOURNF.
THE GENERAL MANAGER
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
v
>
If Sunday Dinner
Upsets Little Mary
Biliousness, Flatulence,
Fullness after meals, Con-
stipation—all complaints
arising from the eating
of over-rich foods—are
cured quickly by
GREATOIDS
“the small but great liver
pills.” Corrected without
inconvenience, too.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
41
Pneumonic influenza
—Reaches Sydney—
It is a public duty on the part of everyone of us to help keep
Australia free from an Influenza Epidemic this coming season.
Care of the throat and mouth will help. Gargle your throat
night and morning with Greathead’s mixture —it will destroy
the germs that lodge in the throat and make infection unlikely.
Sold in large bottles everywhere.
GREATHEAD’S
MIXTURE
A Well-matured Tobacco at kast!
“NOSEGAY”
MANUFACTURED BY T. C. WILLIAMS, VIRGINIA, U S A.
Most Pipe-smoking Troubles come from Using Tobacco that is Too New.
NOSEGAY does not bite the tongue!
NOSEGAY" does not affect the nerves!
NOSEGAY burns down to the last particle in the pipe!
10/8 per lb. 5/4 per alb. 2|B per ilb.
Postage—N.S.W.: 6d. for the first lb. and 3d. every additional lb.
Other States: Bd. for the first lb. and 6d. every additional lb.
SAMPLE TINS 1/3, Post Paid.
A. A. MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney,
Cigar and Tobacco Importer. BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
/
is truly the
“Home Light,”
for it has no equal as a brilliant, steady “home”
illuminant, and it is wholly produced in our
“home” country—Australia. In actual test
“Tasma” has proved equal in both quality of
light and percentage of gas production to the
best carbide hitherto imported from European
and Eastern sources. It is free from phosphorus,
hence is particularly economical, and is
altogether the ideal carbide for home lighting
systems and vehicle lighting of every kind.
Support Australian Industry—
Specify “Tasma,”§ secure the best
Manufactured in Australia by
The Hydro-Electric Power and Metallurgical
Co., Ltd.
Works—Electrona, near Hobart, Tasmania.
If your storekeeper cannot supply, write for
full particulars to
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:—
Victoria. —Noyes Bros. (Melb.) Pty., Ltd., 499-501
Bourke-street, Melbourne.
New South Wales.—Noyes Bros. (Sydney), Ltd.,
Clarence Street, Sydney.
Queensland.—Samuel Allen & Sons, Ltd., Brisbane and
Townsville.
South Australia.—Arthur H. Hasell, Port Adelaide.
West Australia.—Arthur H. Hasell, Perth.
Tasmania.—Gillies Bros., 74 Collins Street, BTobart.^^
An Australian Industry
&


gSar|jj
m
lUITOSS
at: C~yJ\e S^aro
JSJEX r in importance to the purchase
of good tobacco is the means of
keeping it fresh and fragrant— an air-
tight Tobacco Jar. An equally potent
factor in the enjoyment one derives
from smoking, is the quality of the
pioe itself.
Every item obtainable in Farmer’s Tobacco
Dept, is of tested merit—a fact borne out by
the satisfaction of increasing numbers of
regular patrons.
English Airtight Tobacco Jars, various sizes
and colorings ... ... ... ... 10/6
h armer s Briar Pipes, made in London ; hand-
cut vuicam'e mouthpieces 5/0
armors' - Slfdneif
'fhc StoreJorMen
We paif Ca.vriQ.Qc,
7So\ 497, g.v.o
SHA VE
Commanding in their rare
distinction, Shave Gowns
and Tailor Suits arc not
a fleeting fad, but a fixed
habit among gentlewomen.
When you decide
on Shave clot kin (i
you discriminate
between mediocrity
and ultra smartness.
SHAVE,
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Centreway,
Melbourne,
j
x><
am
~ are modelled perfectly
and heighten the beauty
of the handandarm. The
beauty of their appearance
lasts because of the purity and
strength of the "Vanity Fair’’
Silk from which they are made.
Vanity Fair” Silk Gloves
cost no more than other kinds,
but they are sold with a
guarantee of satisfactory ~
wear or exchange, free of ~
charge. 4=
Wear "Vanity Fair”
Silk Gloves
for real
Economy.
©
V.F.I.
ĵ
j
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
People an* not falling over one another
seeking invitations to functions to meet the
Princeling as they were in 1001 when
George and .Mary were on their way to Aus-
tralia. Indeed some are arranging where
they will go on the holidays to be proclaimed.
So it has been detuned advisable to •‘offici-
ally” supplement the hint already given that
Teddy wishes to meet people rather than
to see scenery, and that he is “off’’ exclu-
sive functions. In order to prevent a frost
there will be much booming from Maoriland;
but the prospects now and again cause those
in charge a good deal of trepidation.
The Mayoress spread the best rugs in the
Town Ilall to save Lady Hirdwood’s boots.
The party was on Thursday afternoon, and
there was a great rustle of silk and feathers
—quite a lien revel; the only man visible
was that inestimable potentate, the Town
Ilall porter. He ports dames of great ton-
nage up and down in the drawing-room lift
and knows all the Naicest by name. The
Councillors would never have known their
Council Loom. Mrs. Stein had the boudoir
furnishings hauled in there, along with the
complete stock of a florist’s shop. Lorna
Reid and Miss Troncry made music. Some
of it was frivolous and some so classical
that the heavy dames yawned. Tea, how-
ever, was an episode of note. It was an
affair of several courses and was spread in
the sunlit portico under striped awnings.
Mrs, Stein was upholstered in mouse-
colored plush and pink. Lady Birdwood
put on a bright-flo\vered hat with her putty-
colored tailorings. Mrs. (Dr.) Merrilees
was a vision in navy with a smart veil
spiked to her back hair. Mrs. (turner had
her autumn dress of browns and furs. Fan
Dango Maeka.v struck out in a furquoi.se-
and-gold turban, with everything else putty-
color. Mrs. MacDonald suffered the heat
under an enormous ostrich frill on her blue
gown. Mrs. do Bnvay and her daughter
chose a sweet neutral color-scheme.
When, Lady Birdwood arrived here she
needed the services of a dentist; but, instead
of patronising any near-by fashionable
Collins-street man, she went out to Foots-
eray in order to give the job to a returned
Digger. Her daughter, Mrs. Colin Craig,
with her newly-acquired son. joins her in
Melbourne this week, and will shortly cross
over to Sydney, where, her husband is on
the look-out for a place. General and Lady
Birdwood will arrive in Sydney on Satur-
day, and will be the guests of the Governor
and Lady Davidson. They will probablv
leave nine-year old Judith at Toorak with
the Mackinnons, with whom she stayed
while daddy and mother were in Adelaide.
George Reid’s widow is settling in Mel-
bourne for some time. She has one of the
Toorak Court flats.
Birdwood and Monash may write LL.D.
after their other numerous tags now. The
University conferred the degrees “without
examination.” There was a peacock parade
of academic color in the Quad, in the morn-
ing. A khaki guard of honor acted as a
foil. Chancellor Macfarland and Vice-Chan-
cellor Grice were in all their glory; and
warden Dr. Maclnerney and Prof. Osborne
were leading supers in the show. After
speeches and compliments the stars disap-
peared into the University’s interior to have
a snack.
The latest trace of savagery in women’s
fashionable dress is the new winter craze
in cloaking. A Red Indian’s ri>£ makes an
ultra-smart motor coat, and the newest golf
coat looks like a loose blanket dyed peacock
green. Go in for huge stripes of vivid
colors and you’re posLd as a good dresser.
If any woman fwind Joseph’s freak she
would put it on at once.
Ewen WanLss, the Lieut.-Gov.’s private
sec. anti brother-in-law, is recovering slowly
Pis illness. “Tup” Williams, associate
to the CM., is about again after his long
sick spell, and has been helping to break in
Stewart McArthur, J.
The Spanish Consul at Melbourne may
have to carry the name of Jaime Montero
y de Madrazo, but he’s a good sport for
all that. This summer he was one of the
best-known swimmers on the Brighton beach,
and his tan is gushingly described as just
beautiful.
Mrs. E. R. (Jean) Hobbs, sister of the
ornamental and heavily-gilded Mrs. Anthony,
has been decorating Menzies’. She returned
from the U.S.A. a few wedks back with a
shipload of Paris frocks, and paused for a
flutter in Sydney before coming south. So
far as her own sex is concerned her gowns
are not of more interest than her eyebrows,
portion of which she had plucked by a Yan-
kee beauty specialist, so that what are left
form a delicately pencilled arch.
Warrnambool’s grief at the death of
“Auntie Mary” (Miss Murray) last week
sent flags flying half-mast wherever there
was a pole to carry one. To the last she
retained the deep regard of the people be-
cause of her big heart and her broad mind.
She kept the constituency sweet for her
brother Jack (who was Premier.in 1909-12)
till his death three years ago. “It was no-
thing unusual for an elector to say to the
deputy in the polling-booth, “I vote for Miss
Murray, and toll me how I’ll do that with-
out mistake.” To such as these Jack was
just her proxy in town.
A descendant of one of the State’s pioneer
families. Miss Murray, remembered always
the white man’s debt to the original Aus-
tralians. and Wilmot, last of his tribe, endpd
his days on her property. Thirty grieving
a bos. from Framlingham followed their
benefactress home.
Glossop, of the Sydney, is wanted by the
Royal Navy again, and is shortly to leave
Australia. That ■ ought to put an end to
the story that a displeased Admiralty had
sent him permanently to a shore job.
The popular Dr. Bob Strong, of Collins-
strect, is back from the war and picking
up his practice and hospital work. But the
fascination of Egypt has got into his blood.
Ile intends to go back there some day.
The Society Jazz Club, headed by Mrs.
Fred Payne and Mrs. Fred Fairbairn, has
now acquired Chelmer, on the St. Kilda-road.
for a sports club, where tennis, jazzes and
after-theatre suppers will happen. The
entrance-fee is a fat one, so it will be a
glorious chance for the climber brigade.
The servants’ staff at Raheen is not
numerous, and when a sub-committee of
women church-workers called unexpectedly
on a recent afternoon all were out. Dr.
Mannix did not let on, but excused himself
for a few minutes. Then he. came in carry-
ing a tray with all the paraphernalia for
afternoon tea. lie asked any one of the
dames or misses to pour out the tea, as that
was operation, lie explained, al which
lie didn’t shine. lie offered to fetch any-
thing lie might have forgotten, but he laid
overlooked nothing.
Father J. O’Grady, who passed out the
other day at St. Vincent’s, was “the kindest
of (natures,” and will lie mourned by many
he tried to lure to brighter worlds. He was
a chaplain for a while at Melbourne Hos-
pital, and helped to get in the shekels for
Newman College, within the Uni.
Herbert Neale, secretary to the Vic.
Agent-General, is to have a look at the
btate for the first time since lie went to
London with Murray Smith in 1885. He
was a junior clerk in the days when Cashel
Hoey and Dr. Pearson (previously Minister
of Education) occupied the secretary’s chair
in turn. Incidentally, the Treasurer
announces that the social side of the Agency-
General is to be abolished. Well, with a
total expenditure of £5500 a year, includ-
ing salaries for PeteivMcßride and his staff,
there isn’t a fat lot for hospitality. The
most that has been done of late years has
been to be decently civil to a caller who
asked the right way to go about seeing the
Tower.
This jolly Australian girl is singer Ruby
F°nd. who sr oes to London in May to com-
plete her studies and
pick up the latest
ideas in teaching.
Few musicians
worked harder
for the Diggers, and
her captivating
smile made her as
many friends as her
fine voice. Ruby’s
plain-clothes name is
Mrs. W. Gorrie, and
though her piano is
set up in Melbourne,
Warrnambool, where
the big potatoes
come from, regards
her with special
interest and pride.
During a recent
visit there the Jor-
clan Studio made the smiling picture which
hangs alongside these remarks.
Geoffrey, the middy-son of Gordon Carter,
missed coming on the Renown through a bad
bout of pneumonic influenza that threatened
his life. But he won’t be allowed to miss
a, trip to Australia. As soon as he is strong
enough he will hurry along by a mail
steamer to rejoin his ship.
There’s a cable announcement that the
German diplomatic representatives have been
presented at the Court of St. James’s “in
frigid silence.” But what did they expect?
That the Chief Gold Stick-in-Waiting would
lead the congregation in three hearty groans’
At solemn functions of this kind the presen-
tation of popular heroes such as Haig and
Beatty is carried out with less noise than
is heard at an average funeral. It is not
even on record that Thomas Adolphus Bent
was received with loud laughter.
Hilary Maekinnon, political Donald's
elder girl, has accepted a Macedon Reid son
as her prospective bridegroom. Some time
before the Avar Hilary emerged from a Ger-
man boarding-school carrying a plump
figure, but she is now comparatively slim.
She inherited her good looks from Mrs.
Donald, who was the daughter of the late
Judge Bunny. Flapper Sister Nancy is being
l 1 rench-polished in a Parisian seminary.
T Tll( i • Smith-Higgins wedding at St.
i S .fi 1s > Malvern, was at least as gav and
gladly clad an affair as was anticipated—
all swords, sables, signs, smiles and exclama-'
tion-points. Lieut. Ronald Bruce Smith
played his uniformed part with an air of
noble gravity that turned all flapper-hearts
to mush; aud little Felice Higgins accepted
her responsibilities in a bridal outfit which
caused money-talk running into thousands.
Wallach, the German metal dealer, over
whose internment there was a fuss, has got
passports for himself and his bride, and
they are off to Europe. He drew a black-
liaired beiiuty for his second matrimonial
venture. I Inf first wife, since divorced, was
Lily Wilson, as fair a girl as Australia
produces.
The Bolton family did its bit all right.
Dad the Senator, three sons and a daughter
all played valuable
roles in various parts
of the disturbance,
pad was C.B.E.’d
for liis work;
Captain J. G. Bol-
ton caught the M.C.,
and Sister E: M.
Bolton of the adja-
cent photo joined the
honorable order of
Royal Red Crossers.
She went first to the
A.I.F. General Hos-
pital in Egypt, but
after a while a
poisoned hand sent
her.home for a spell.
Returning, she was
appointed to Salon-
ika, and stuck pluck-
ily to n difficult: and wearying job until the
Armistice brought release. It was for her
capacity and courage at Salonika that she
got her decoration.
Adelaide calls the score:—
Ivy Phillips’s farewell concert was at the Queen’s
Hall—restored to us for such festivities now that
the Ited Cross Society has given up its Soldiers’
Rest Room. She was billed for eight numbers, sang
12, and was smothered beneath flowers. To range
and power she adds the rarer gift of temperament.
There is a movement afoot to get a portion of the
West Terrace Cemetery reserved as a soldiers’ burial-
ground. Already there are about 50 desolate grave?,
uncared for and unmarked even by the wooden cross
of the battlefield in various parts of the Necropolis.
If the Government agrees, these will be moved to
the Soldiers’ plot, and upkeep will be undertaken by
the Soldiers’ Welfare Committee.
The Prince’s visit here has been cut to four clear
days, beginning on July 12 and ending on July 16,
when he starts on his cross-country trek to Brisbane.
A press committee has been appointed to look after
the accompanying “special correspondents” while they
are in S. Australia.
Journalist Edith Abbott, who was a foundation
member of the Cheer-Up Society, took her morning
tea with its committee on Saturday, when they gave
her good wishes unbounded and a manicure set. Col.
Weir was the Society’s chief spokesman, but nearly
every member there said a word or two in support.
The Women Teachers’ Progressive League, which
has reached a membership of 355, has decided to
temporarily cease from troubling the Government for
various reforms in regard to pay and status. A
revised scheme of salaries has come into effect, and
Director McCoy hopes to make further improvements
fairly soon.
From England comes news of the death of Mrs.
T. Pope, at Bournemouth. She and her husband had
been living in England since 1915, and took many
a lonely South Australian soldier under their hos-
pitable wing.
Ainslie Caterer, who was St. Peter’s acting head-
master during the Girdlestone-Bickersneath inter-
regnum, is to be the University’s warden while Mr.
Chappie is away. Incidentally, Ainslie’s B.A. degree
was the first this University awarded. .
Adelaide contemplates two large movements in
the musical line. John Dempster, who has long
conducted a strong Women’s Choir, is forming a
male counterpart, and the united body should be
worth hearing. Then there is the orchestra, already
mentioned, that Dr. Davies, of the Conservatorium,
is promoting. About 50 people have already put
down the £lOO which will make them life-members.
The Airsmiths had perfect weather for the last
l ip of their journey home to Adelaide. They travelled
at such a rate from Melbourne that they had to
give a free show over practically every town they
passed, so as not to beat their time-table. Ail
Adelaide was waiting to see them appear over
Mount Lofty, and several ’planes went out to meet
them. They went straight for their home at Walker-
ville, then circled the plain from the hills to the
sea before dropping at Enfield, where a big crowd
awaited them. The official reception took place on
Parliament House steps an hour later, in the Tivoli
theatre the same evening, and in the Town Hall
the following day.
Tom Young, the big stockman of the
Wimmera, is beginning to buy birthday and
festival presents wholesale. He is the
vastly-proud grandfather of 21 young Aus-
tralians. There were three christenings in
the clan hist week, each attended with much
frill, fuss and rejoicing.
Gaud Mayor Aikman is encouraging
music with Sunday concerts. At the first the
Lady Northcote Orchestra, with Kost wav-
ing the baton, sawed off lengths of the com-
posers. On this occasion*the E.N. Orchestra
played for nothing but the love of music.
Alberto Zelman had a great success on
Thursday night with his Symphony Orches-
tra. The concert was in the newly-decorated
Town Hall, and the music wafted the
listeners away from the reek of the paint.
Zelman conducts with every finger and uses
his arms and wrists and hands like a clas-
sical dancer. The orchestra, which includes
dozens of amateurs, was in perfect trim.
Most of the violins are girl-players—a dainty
white crowd among the crow-men. There
was a big house packed with the most intel-
lectual of the Nnicest. Syd. Dalrymple
brought his mother. A good selection of
Baillieux were in the balconies. Mrs. Mani-
fold was in the stalls in a moonlight-blue
shimmery frock. Maida Vevey muffled a
300-guinea sable coat over her waist-cut
ivory dinner-frock. The Chauvel dame
sported the newest yellow “sunlight” brocade.
Mrs.. Stein was in amber. The Cuban Con-
sul's wife wore brown and a “cute” veil
head-dress. The expensively well-dressed
were everywhere. ,
Miss Liddy played Saint-Saens’ concerto
for'the piano in G Minor with the full
orchestra backing her. Capt. Guy Moore,
D.F.C., a flying bird with bright red hair
and a soft tenor voice, carolled like a lark.
The Repertory show at the Guild Hall
last week brought a swarm of intellectuals,
but there was a fair sprinkling of ordinary
mortals attracted by the reputation of
Wilde, Barrie and Shaw. The white mous-
tacliios of Henry Gyles Turner were in tin?
front row, and near by the irrepressible
Tommy Cochrane beamed his optimism
through large spectacles. Among other
University braves, poets, artists and authors
of varying displacement Professor Ernest
Scott sat back and soaked np wisdom like
a blotter. Arthur Goodsall. who staged the
plays, employed various colored stuffs for
scenery, and seemed to have raked over the
rag-tip of an unholsterer’s to provide neces-
sary costumes. In the “Florentine Tragedy”
poor Bianca was doomed to delay in her
most passionate movements by a heavy, non-
descript garment that gave her the contour
of a parallelogram and seemed to have led
a fast life as an antimacassar.
Relieved of a growth in the neck which
had latterly interfered with her voice. Muriel
Starr has been making good progress at
Mont St. Evins private hospital—the so-
near-and-yet-so-far relation of St. Vincent's
on Melbourne's Eastern Hill. With a bit
of luck Muriel should score a London hit
in “The Man Who Came Back”—an engage-
ment arranged by George Tallis.
There were various supper parties to
Muriel during her farewell week in Mel-
bourne, and she was repeatedly told that she
was a “good chap.”
The Fullers have bagged George Cross
again for their hero department. Cross has
been defying villains in Wilsonland for
some years. With the Fullers he is to “play
opposite” our own little Nellie Bramley.
You may jazz at Wirths’ now as well as
roller-skate. They call it the New American
Jazz I’avilioir, and it has an “American”
jazz band.
Arthur Stigant, the ex-panto dame (lately
of “Kissing Time”) is trying to feel happy
in a private hospital after an operation to
his right knee. His fellow-comedian, Theo.
Leonard, wears a pained smile and a hurt
leg, the result of an argument with a stage
trap-door. And Barry Lupino only tottered
off the sick list in time to get away with the
“Mother Hubbard” co. It’s almost as
dangerous as bull-fighting.
Artist Tom Roberts is talking of a new
method of foiling time. Believing that many
of his oldest and best cronies will find the
stairs at the Athenaeum- too much for them
should they wish to visit his show, lie
intends to hire an invalid chair and have
them carried up.
Marion Jones, the National Gallery’s new
Travelling Scholar, left last week for Eng-
land after spending some fevered last days
on two portraits of W. M. Hughes. One
of the canvases show's Billy full-face, the
other is an angle view', but both are excel-
lent likenesses, conceding naught in flattery
except, perhaps, in the suggestion of an un-
furrowed brow. Mrs. Hughes reckons that
they are the nearest thing to the living Billy
she has ever met —outside certain red covers,
of course.


DEWAR'S
WHISKY M
The Why
and Wherefore
of Whisky
When the figures of our yearly bill for beverages are examined
some startling facts are revealed, and a question which must force
itself upon the intelligent man is why so large a proportion of the
people continue to consume alcoholic stimulants without making
the slightest inquiry as to their ingredients or their effect upon the
health and well being.
It should be the bounden duty of every person who uses whisky to
familiarise himself with the truth, which is briefly this. The market
is deluged with harmful concoctions masquerading as whisky, but
which in no way merit the good old name. True whisky is prepared
from ingredients remarkable for their wholesomeness. Such whisky
used moderately is a positive aid to healthfulness. A stimulant, in
short, the use of which is prudent and profitable.
The design of true whisky, so far from being to intoxicate, is to
exhilarate pleasantly and harmlessly. True whisky should also have
a food value calculated to nourish as well as sustain, and no
stimulant unless prepared with skill and judgment from perfectly
pure constituents is whisky in any sense of the word.
DEWAR’S
The Whisky of Perfect Purity.


Charles
HeidsieckS
Vintage 1906
(HUM®
«E PLUS ULTRA
'T
!•
: ■
m
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydnsy.
Tuthills are the Best
for Replacements.
Tuthill Guaranteed Springs are made
for every make of American Car. Quite
apart from the fact of “the guarantee
against centre breakage for ever” or
any other kind for twelve months,
•their super qualities impart an added
comfort, all the more appreciated be-
cause their cost is no greater than
that of the ordinary spring. Garage
owners recommend TuthiHs because
they increase Garage Goodwill, which
naturally follows satisfactory service
to the motorist.
WHOLESALE ONLY.
Bennett SBarkell Limited
“The Traders’ Service House.”
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
I
Are you imprisoned in an invisible eagre?
Do you experience that awful loneliness only
known to those who cannot hear?
Why remain out of it whilst your friends
are enjoying themselves?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
has bpen proved hy thousands of Australasian
citizens with over 8 yeare of daily use, in
business, the Theatre and Church.
It is recommended by the leading Ear
Specialists, and is in everv respect a
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
The Hears Ear-Phone is positively the small-
est, neatest and most scientific instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.
May we send you a little booklet, and
place before you our FREE TRIAL OFFER?
You will be tinder absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
387 George Street, Sydney.
Free Lolly Recipes
Sent on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope for Free Trial of Our
WORLD’S W T ORKS RECIPES, per-
sonally collected. After trying them
we think you will want to
Learn the Lolly Trade
from our books, 1, 2 and 3, on terms.
Necessaries sent Free-Carriage Paid.
R. CROAKER (Dept. 1)
Universal Chambers,
325 Collins Street, Melbourne.
EST. 1899.
CALL AND SEE PUPILS’ WORK.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
FOR
SMART
MILLINERY
It was a desert of Town Hall in which the
little midges danced and capered the other
night. For the most part the tiny figures
were powdered and patched and panniered
more in the style of Charles 11. than of the
Early Victorian whose period it was intended
to rehabilitate at the kiddies’ ball in aid of
Baby Week. Betsy Parker, quite correct as
to period, became the prideful possessor of
the prize gold bangle, her little girl-escort
receiving a consolation prize from president
Innes-Noad. Joyce Vandenberg, who came
as her own Easter Egg, was awarded a prize
for her enterprise by the Housewives’ Asso-
ciation (or some such). One little Sargent
went as Mother Shipman, the lady who saw
Billy Hughes’s aerial mail-service in full
flight long before locomotives were invented.
There was a quaint, small hoy who looked
like Boswell searching for his Johnson, and a
small grandchild of Mrs. Fotheriughame’s
took the lloor all complete in poke bonnet
and mittens, sunshade and posy and all.
The committee of the Welfare movement, in-
cluding the Cook and Cullen-titles, and Mrs.
Sargent, and president Innes-Noad, sat amid
the palms at the lower end of the hall until
early closing time.
General George Lee, who “handed over”
to Colonel Bruche at Victoria Barracks on
Monday, married one of the Towns girls.
The Towns family were eminent Hawkes-
bury natives in their day. The llobartville
estate, near Windsor, which belonged to the
head of the family, was particularly famous
amongst horsey people 30-odd years ago.
Its fame turned to notoriety during the
bank smashes of ’93. Bill Long, of Chip-
ping Norton, was nearly ruined in the
attempt to pay oft' the overdraft he had
authorised the A.J.S. Bank to allow on
the place. Another Towns girl was the
first wife of George Osborne. Bruche him-
self is Victorian-born, and before becoming
a “permanent” soldier was a lawyer.
If Bruche succeeds permanently to the
job in N. S. Wales lie will help to create a
new record. Some years ago three sisters,
daughters of old Judge McFarland, married
three soldiers. Two of the soldiers are now
Generals, and the third may soon be. The
other two are Alex. Jobson and Ryrie.
Sydney hotels and boarding-houses have
often bulged, but there never was such a
pressure on them as there is at this moment.
A Minister of a neighboring State had a
meeting in Sydney this week. The city was
combed for a shakedown for him and his
expert or two, and when last heard from
his emissary was scouring the country as
far afield as Pennant Hills to find empty
beds. The biggest caravanserai of them all
ceased booking for Easter 10 weeks ago;
and a worried Tourist Bureau is imploring-
anybody with an empty motor garage to com-
municate particulars of the vacancy, so that
visiting dukes and duchesses may not have
to buy a morning paper and wrap themselves
in it under the fig-trees of the Domain.
The Board of the Crown-street Women’s
Hospital had its field day with Noah Web-
ster last week, starting at three and playing
battledore and shuttlecock with words until
five, all the listening women looking bored
and tired and chilled by the evening breeze
before the descent was made from the flat
roof of the new nurses’ home where the
meeting had been held. Though the air will
always be fresh enough up there, above the
mystery of Paddington, the outlook is a
dreary wilderness of shabby house-tops,
mostly of the tenement variety, with bits of
the family-wash floating from the balconies.
Here and there the scenery is broken by
exhaust pipes and a tall, soot-grimed chim-
ney ; and a few plucky little trees, their
roots cramped by the asphalt of unsym-
pathetic roads, put forth their green bravery,
whispering their eternal message of Spring
to come, and that’s not a bad message to
carry to the hundreds of potential mothers
who pass from the narrow, shabby streets
through the hospital and back again to the
narrow, shabby streets. And (but this has
nothing at all to do with the meeting) there
was a young Australian father in his
mechanic’s clothes who stood in the front
hall waiting for a message from the office.
“You can go straight up,” was the word he
got; and his “Gawd, miss, that’s better than
a ten-pound note!” is the best annual report
the hospital could have. At ten minutes to
five Lady Davidson did her job of unveiling
one of the tablets that commemorate the
opening of the new home. And she did it
with a despatch that commends the entry
of women into Parliament. President Judge
Backhouse unveiled the second tablet with a
due reference to its being the anniversary
of the birth of England's Virgin Queen.
Dame Margaret and the Backhouse lady
carried bouquets of purple and white asters,
the colors of the uniforms worn by the
sisters. Also present. David Fell’s new wife,
who runs Lady Davidson a close second in
suggesting the stately homes of England.
The cable tells of the death of the widow
of Baronet John Henniker Heaton, in Eng-
land, from pneumonia. She was the only
daughter of Samuel Bennett, founder of the
T. and C. Journal and Evening News,
and got two out of the five parts into which
his estate was divided. Ilenniker was a
travelling representative for the Town and
Country when they married; but her for-
tune enabled him to enter the Commons,
where he had a seat for a quarter of a
century.
Neither Dr. Mary Booth nor Grace Scobie
won a seat in the Parliament; but they
both got enough first-preference votes to
give tiiem hope. And there was some
to be had out of the fight. A small friend
of Dr. Mary’s became very enthusiastic in
her cause, and had himself excused from
home-lessons one night to canvass for her
at Milson’s Point. Two Labor candidates
went across to him and asked him to give
out their literature. He drew himself up.
“Impossible!” he said. “We’re standing
ourselves!”
This wistful little profile belongs to Mrs.
Mordaunt Keid. who was very badly hit
by the war. Her husband was reported
missing on the dav of the landing.
When he joined up
he was manager of
electrical works on
the Westralian gold-
fields. Mrs. Ileid,
taking up hospital
duties, went t o
Egypt to seek news
of her husband, but
without result.
Going on to Lon-
don, and still with
hope of some day
learning something,
she cast in her lot
with those in the
office of the Pri-
soners of War. The
little lady reckons it
was a privilege to
work for the men,
aud will talk of everyone’s sacrifices save
her own. She plans to open a private hos-
pital here with her sister-in-law, who left
her billet as theatre sister at Sydney Hos-
pital to do her bit at Salonika. She, too,
is now back in Sydney.
Mrs. Gibson, whom we knew as Eva
Mylott, died in Canada the other day, sur-
viving only a few weeks the coming of her
second baby. A recent New Yorker sends
this note: —
Eva Mylott was, when last I saw her (and that
was the day before her marriage in June, 1917), look-
ing forward as only an exile can to a return to her
own land, where she hoped to sing again. But, first,
conditions created by the war, and then husband and
babies, prevented her from realising her desire. It
is a great pity that she could not have been heard
here, for her technique had improved enormously of
late years, and she would surely have pleased Aus-
tralian audiences, and that would have given her more
happiness than any triumph scored away from home.
Ai d she did triumph, too. New York is a cold and
ditieal town, and about as impressionable as flint.
When she .went there somewhere about 10 years ago
the contralto had no influence or backing. But she
had a voice, a personality, a fine capacity for hard
work, and she was a good-looker. She gave concerts,
sang in churches and took pupils. In order to keep
before the public and to secure engagements,
musicians in the U.S. find it necessary to give
a concert every year, or at least every two years.
This is usually a big expense, for the hall is mostly
“paper.” The whole thing has to be carefully
engineered, and the leading musicians and critics
invited ; everything, from the artist’s point of view,
depends on the impression made and the notices that
are given. It is considered worth while to spend a
good deal on this ad. in order to catch the big,
round dollar subsequently. Eva Mylott gave one
of these concerts in the iEolian Hall, New York,
about four years ago; she worked it up herself,
sold the tickets and boxes—and made money out of
it. It was quite a feat. Her stage presence was
really superb. That night she wore a sea-green gown
which set off her magnificent hair, the color of new
copper. A woman near me expressed the general
feeling in choice American, “Gee, she’s a stunner 1”
Carrie Jacobs-Bonrl, who wrote the words and music
of “A Perfect Day,” on meeting Eva Mylott for
the first time threw her arms around her and thanked
her for interpreting the song so truly on American
concert platforms, and promised to accompany the
singer to Australia on her next concert tour.
Carrying between £5O worth of evening
frock in white satin and shimmer of pearl,
Gladys Cole lifted up t,he soprano that hesi-
tates between the lyric and the dramatic in
a Town Hall packed by the holders of invi-
tation cards issued by the songbird’s teacher.
Mrs. Hugh Ward. (Asprey of St. Mary’s
had a hand in moulding the voice just after
a girlish success at an Eisteddfod.) At
the present, Gladys is a large, fair-skinned
young woman, and though only just emerged
from the flapper stage has already the
physique of the prima donna class. Her
opening number was a breathless affair, but
she burst into full flight in “Let the Bright
Seraphim” ; and the recall number, “O Divine
Redeemer,” left the listener dumb with the
astonishing ease and brilliancy of the per-
formance and the sweetness of her tone,
yet as spiritually hungry as he who was
handed a stone instead of bread. Laurence
Godfrey Smith, organist .Truman, and trum-
peter Bowles helped in the triumphant musi-
cal uproar that oratorio-makers presume is
the only method of reaching the ear of
Jehovah. Then came the flowers —fields and
hedges and bowers and hothouses of them,
until Flora flickered an envious eyelash.
And hereabouts Mrs. Hugh Ward was
brought on by her pupil. The thrill in
the second part of the programme was in
the Indian Bell Song, ■when the vocal fire-
works crackled and sparkled and rieochetted
like a Royal celebration. The audience split
its 225. 6d. white kids at the last note; and
the still-fresh voice came back in double
encore, finishing with Tosti’s good old sob-
song. John Lemmone turned his tuneful pipe,
and if only he had been embowered in green
stuff Pan could have established another
alibi. Accompanist Fletcher and singer
litchard McLelland made up the bilL
Lots of hard work and careful study, and
Gladys Cole should become a front-ranker.
Favorite of Fortune, she had the luck in
early fiapperdom to be adopted by one of
the twine- and sack-manufacturing Joyce
brothers, and all the gilt that money could
give to the voice has been and will be lavisheJ
upon it. But the making of an artist lies
in the singer’s own soul and brain.
Mrs. Gladys Henning felt a wedding-ring
slip on top of the almost-brand-new diamond
half-hoop last Wednesday, and a few seconds
later she was the wife of Squadron-leader
F. Esk Sandford. The tall, fair Maoriland
girl (she’s the youngest daughter of Oswald
Coates, of Auckland, and an old pupil
of the Girls’ High, Dunedin) was an
ambulance-driver with the M.L. Forces in
France. Bridegroom’s dad is William Sand-
ford, of Lithgow, who founded the large
ironworks now run by the Hoskins firm.
Major and Mrs. Sandford leave next week
for England, where the young man (who, by
the way, only arrived from the other end
of the earth a fortnight ago) has a perma-
nent staff job.
You couldn’t have a Baby Week in N. S.
Wales without remembering the services of
Dr. Charles Mackellar, who, as president
of the State Children’s Relief Board, has
made the infant and the neglected little
Australian his
special charge.
Though close upon
80 now—well. 76
he is an Australian
himself: his father
was one of the very
few. M.D.’s of old
Sydney. After a
good many years of
private practice Dr.
Charles became
head of the Gov-
ernment medical ser-
vice. Then, one
day, the Attorney-
General —i t seems
to have been W. B.
Dailey regretted
that Charles Mac-
ke 11 a r wasn’t in
Parliament to introduce a ne« Health Bill.
And promptly Mackellar threw up his job
and accepted a seat in the Leg. Council;
that was nearly 40 years ago, and he is
there still. And, of course, being what he
is, and knowing nothing about shafts and
wild cats, he in due course became Minister
of Mines. Woman, by the way, is much
too illogical to be in Parliament.
It was a case of the guests elbowing their
way up to St. Stephen’s in Phillip-strhet for
the wedding of Barbara Gordon and Lionel
Jaques. Half a cityful of women seemed to
be turned loose on the pavement and in the
church porch, and no wonder the little bride
had stage fright as she slipped in on dad’s
arm. Sister Jeanette, who followed the
bridal white satin and crystal embroideries
up the aisle and spread out the court-train
at the psychological moment, had aimed a
blow at the profiteer in designing the top
deck of her jade-green turquoise-blue satin
frock, the back being almost entirely elimin-
ated. There was just enough satin above
the waistline to give a friendly handclasp
to the narrow shoulder-straps that served
as a sort of sartorial League of Nations
between front and back. For the rest, she
wore a pair of handsome shoulders, a draped
skirt and a hat of silver lace carrying an
echo of the blue-green of the frock. The
bridegroom was supported by best-man Kater
and a strong family following, including his
M.P. brother, and sister Mrs. Macneil Simp-
son (black) and sister-in-law Mrs. Charlev
Jaques (oxidised silver). The Wades, Mrs
Harry Chisholm, the Kelso Kings and Mrs'
Willie Anderson were among those whom
the bride’s dad regaled with wedding meats
amid the gilded and Georgian splendors of
the new Wentworth ballroom.
Just as her friends were thinking out the
wedding presents, Marjorie Street cables
that she and the young man have cancelled
their engagement.
Reginald Rutledge Snell, whose father is
padre at Geelong, married Claire Vernon
McCulloch at St. Philip’s last week. Ilea the-
IvlcCulloch dressed the bridesmaid’s part in
palest blue, and persisted in this shade even
to her bouquet. Frank Lamb was best man,
and the Wentworth saw r the party.
An engagement of interest to Sydney-
siders is that of young St. Clair Mat-lardy,
whose father, in 1887, married a daughter
of Justice Foster, and The Bulletin dulv
and in detail chronicled the event. IV
present young man’s front name is Foster,
and the lady in the case is Billie Ilodge.
whose parents live in Auckland.
The Duchess of Marlborough is the third
wearer of the strawberry leaves to face the
Divorce Court this year. The Duchess of
Sutherland divorced General Percy Fitz-
gerald, of Melbourne, at the beginning of the
year; and the Duke of Westminster was
relegated to the matrimonial scrap-heap a
few months later. As a divorcee, however
blameless, loses her right of entry to all
Court functions, there is usually a powerful
motive at the back of the manoeuvre. In
plain English, a young man.
The Marlborough duchess, who was Con-
suelo Vanderbilt and a millionairess, has
always been more famed for good works
than frivolity. She is an expert on muni-
cipal questions and a member of the L.C.C.
She was good-looking in a tall, willowy
fashion 20 years ago, but has now the peev-
ish expression of the ill-used wife who
luxuriates in it. The Duke looks more like
a Novelette or Yankee magazine Duke than
any other man in England.
The Navy Office sent a circular letter to
the officers of the It.A.N. last week direct-
ing all those who possessed grown-up
daughters to forward their names and
addresses. The idea is to have the maidens
suitably graded in time for the Prince’s
visit.
The Royal Philharmonics opened their
season with Berlioz’s Faust, under director
Joseph Bradley. The Town Hall was
crowded and enthusiastic. The Munro
Fergusons were there, and with them Aide
Duncan and his good-looking bride; and
the choral parts improving after a some-
what weak kick-off. the big audience settled
down to an evening of enjoyment. The
orchestra was in wonderful form and
received the loud hand in the Ballet of
Sylphs. Rosa Alba was innocent Maggie
Faust, and George English’s Mr. Faust was
a taking blade of a fellow. Frank Charl-
ton was Meph.
Alfred Coffey’s art-love as shown in his
exhibition at Swain’s is a sun-bathed lady
given to stretches of golden sand roofed
in by speckless skies. Occasionally he
keeps tryst at sunset with a shadowy-green
maid in leafy places, but that is only an
interlude and doesn’t interfere with his
serious affaire. His seascapes at Terrigal
and Austinmer are exquisite bits of Aus-
tralia, while his large canvases dealing with
bush fires are torrid as to atmosphere, and
the blue smoke-haze is only kept inside
the frame by the stillness of the air of
high noon.
. Nan Garvan, who has run the motor ser-
vice between the transports and the Anzac
Buffet since the first batch of boys came
home, was officially thanked by Com-
mandant Lee the other day for consistent
efficiency. Anzac Buffet Miss Evans als >
came in for a thanksgiving. The two also
took their me- 3 of praise from the mouth
of J. O. Fairfax at the last Red Cross
meeting.
The response to the call to come as book
characters not proving sufficiently eager,
the word has gone forth that any old fancy
costume will be welcomed at the Bush Book
Club Ball. It is a pity that the Dickens
set has dropped out, though “The Idylls
of the King’’ should prove an immense suc-
cess if the ladies carry the heavyweight of
good looks that are credited to the women
of Arthur’s Court. Gladys Owen. T. H.
Kelly and Professor Wilkinson are to judge
the sets and the individual masqueraders.
The. showerettes that are mentioned as a
special attraction are to contain, besides
balloons and confetti, prizes to the value
of £5 ss.
Blue-eyed Dr. Bean sees the Perfect
Digestion as a result of his municipal
kitchen. He’s got a model one going this
w r eek at the lower Chapter House of St.
Andrew’s. Here the workers, who number
sanitary-inspector, Isla Blomfield, T.
Durable (otherwise Tom the Chemist) and
Della Gana, will prove the value of one
city one .stock-pot any day of the week
between 12 and 2 and 5 and 6 p.m.


ESTB
j
1853
Fine Diamond and Platinum
Pendant, complete with
Platinum Chain, in Case.
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
DIAMOND
JEWELLERY.
Choice in Design and
of Highest Quality and
Workmanship, Hardy
Bros.’ comprehensive
selection of Diamond
and Gem Jewellery is
the Finest in the
Commonwealth.
New and Exclusive
Designs are constantly
added to their stock,
the illustration being
representative of the
Choicest Selection
Available.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY
ARE INVITED TO INSPECT
THE COMPANY’S SHOWROOMS.
Hardy Brothers Ltd
13 Hunter Street, Sydney.
298 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
116-118 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE.
An ENSIGN or a KODAK
for the Easter Holidays.
There’s a good time coming for the amateur photo-
grapher—the Easter Holidays with all their attrac-
tions, and a couple of months later the Prince’® i>sit,
which will be an occurrence to be rcmembcied for
many years to come.
Get your camera now, and learn to use it properly, so
that you may be able to take photos that will bring
back pleasant memories in years to come.
We can show you a full range of the
WORLD’S BEST CAMERAS,
ENSIGNS, KODAKS,
ANSCOS, BROWNIES,
and we will teach you how to use the one you pur-
chase, free of charge.
BOX-FORM ENSIGNS, British Made, and
BROWNIES, Daylight-loading, for Roll
Filins, 12/6, 16/-, 21/-, 27/6.
FOLDING ENSIGNS, British Made, 65/-, 70/-.
FOLDING BROWNIES, for Roll Films, 50/6,
55/6, 60/-, 70/-, 80/-, 90/-, 100/-.
FOLDING AUTOGRAPHIC KODAK JUNIORS,
85/- to £7/15/-.
FOLDING AUTOGRAPHIC KODAKS, £0 to £lB.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE TF YOU LIVE OUT
OF TOWN.
-if*
jit
m
Have your Easter Snapshots
Developed and Printed
at Harringtons’.
You want to get the best results possible from your Easter snapshots,
therefore you should have them developed and printed at Harringtons’.
Our Workrooms are equipped with the most modern appliances for this
class of work, and we have a large staff of expert workers, so that you can
depend upon getting the highest grade of work in the quickest possible
time.
ORDERS LEFT WITH US ON TUESDAY MORNING
WILL BE FINISHED ON WEDNESDAY.
C?
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
886 George Street, Sydney.
03-95 Queen Street, Brisbane.
144 Queen Street, Auckland;
2G(i Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 liun.ile Street, Adelaide.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: Booth and Trafalgar Streets, Annandale.
1/Crt\f ct\Vi( li\c UJ^noix
wilt cj\ Ice C\\pgT
wm
t
I .'ll \s\%s
Kl >J
mn m
t jk&i
i
iVS
Estl
Condensed
MILK
NEST BRAND
.Made IN AUSTRALIA
IfAW SWISS CONDENSE
B*'*,®
d e, Perth, »
a
NESTLES
CONDENSED
MILK
Dairy milk needs an ice chest to keep
it fresh for use.
Nestled Condensed Milk remains sweet
and pure even on the hottest day.
Nestle’s is the Milk you need for tea,
coffee & cocoa.
You need Nestle’s too for cooking.
' N.a/8-


\
/ '
ass
Cndcora Promotes Beauty
(tfl&raiulSbm
If the Soap is used for every-day
toilet purposes assisted by occasional
touches of Cuticura Ointment to first
signs of pimples, redness, roughness
or dandniff. Do not confound these
fragrant super - creamy emollients
with coarsely medicated, often dan-
gerous preparations urged as substi-
tutes.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
"R. Towm& Co.. Sydney, N. S. W.*' Sold
by dealers throughout the world.
Learn to Draw,
Ss
The above |
is the title
of our book-
let. which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and wiiy
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful. .
Send tlir e e
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—■
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
There’s Money
in the
Pen.
THE. HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
192 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
m
1 m
m
L
SRiTiSM
ADE
Perfection
push: rubber.
€>
No metal
Can touch you
THE NAME OF
PARIS
is the endorsement of perfection, and
your guarantee of Garter quality.
RETAILED EVERYWHERE.
Indents and Wholesale,
Walter Cathro l*ty., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
Makers, A. Stein & Company, Chicago.
SBE
ĵ
Tht WORLD'S
BEST VALUE
GM&Baannnaaß^^
rv K\ t vnnit BQfeHat s-noa ROC Ksev
Are You Weed Farming?
TREES AND SCRUB
ST. JOHN’S WORT
BLACKBERRIES
THISTLES FERNS
BOXTHORN, GORSE
COUCH, RAGWORT
FURZE SORREL
WEEDS of every kind
<
ia n
POiSONJ
EED, SCRI
Tree K 1
°'RfcCTiONS ro«
U'.t
J"" »*»
1 |0l» LECCO 8. CO. ►
Manufactured in
Australia by
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
The great majority of Farmers, Orchardists, and
others to-day are allowing Thistles, Sorrel, Couch
Grass, and a hundred other pests to shade, choke,
and crowd out useful plants and grasses, allowing
them to absorb the soil moisture, rob the plant
food in the ground, increase the cost of every opera-
tion in the preparing of the land, in the seeding,
cultivating, harvesting, and marketing of their
crops. In short, they’re Weed Farming.
.Blackberries, Boxthorn, St. John’s Wort, and Rag-
wort are in undisputed possession of thousands
of acres of valuable country, mostly because their
eradication is considered impossible or
too laborious.
But, is their extermination impossible?
Not a bit of it, Mr. Landholder! Granted
you have used every conceivable means in
vain—have you ever used
"VALLO” Weed, Scrub
and Tree Killer?
Have you heard that in all parts of
Australia “Vallo” has effectively killed
every kind of Noxious Growth to which
it has been applied—Blackberries, Box-
thorn, St. John’s Wort all included ?
“Vallo” is the easiest, handiest, and most
economical Weed, Scrub, and Tree Killer
procurable. It’s in powder form, very
soluble, and is used as a spray.
Prices: 56 lbs. 70/-, 15 lbs. 21/3,
7 lbs. 10/6, 1 lb. 2/-, } lb. 1/3.
Postage: Within the State, 1 lb. 9d., A IK 6d, extra.
Interstate, 1 lb. 1/2, A lb. Bd. extra.
r rzrL , G'jrot> innn r <T& o u mm-.
UISPO V2TVI7U 17V~
L C gc
CtS-oo;
■V cine
PQ
0?0
nO
fnfc
OS.
Co
oc
iCo
CO
W&3
4^ r °C' C C
C'C‘
C.cC
OOC
c>c«o
zee
Buy Before the Rise Takes Place.
X9l .—Solid Leather Art Bag, hand-laced, with
gusset at sides, two leather handles, leather lined,
and slit pocket inside. Designs: Kookaburra, Blue
Wren, Flannel Flower and Waratah. Size, 7iin. x
6iin. Price, 10/6 each.
Have you seen our Ladies’ Leather Motor
Hats? You should have one. We are the
largest Leather Goods Specialists in the
Commonwealth. Send us your require-
ments. We will fill them. Try Our Lay-
by System.
Expert Mailorder Co.
G.P.O. Box 2575.
ALSO OBTAINABLE AT
Post Free throughout Australia. THE AMERICAN BAG STORES,
Only Addresses: Pitt 8 King Sts.; Strand Cr., Pitt St.; 8 Sydney Arcade, George St.
All
Chemists,
two sizes.
j
ĵ
SfeiUP
GUARANTEED OR MONEY REFUNDED.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO. LTD..
Aberdeen House, 204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
C in
TROOPS
TRAVELLING OVER-SEAS SHOULD
AVOID DISCOMFORT FROM
SEA SICKNESS.
Mothersill's Seasick Remedy
is invaluable. It positively
Prevents and Cures Sea, Air,
and Train Sickness.
NO BAD AFTER EFFECTS.
THE PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OP PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
Public Notices.
Christchurch Tramway
Board.
Loan £340,000, 5£ per cent.
THE Christchurch Tramway Board invites
applications at par for purchase of the
debentures of the first instalment of the
above Loan (£200,000).
Interest payable half-yearly free of ex-
change in New Zealand or in Sydney and
Melbourne. Loan repayable in 1944.
The security is the Christchurch Tramway
Undertaking and its revenues (subject to
existing charges) and a rate to cover In-
terest and Sinking Fund.
The Board will pay exchange through the
Union Bank on remittances of principal
moneys to Christchurch.
Further particulars respecting security,
etc., will be found on Prospectus, copies of
which are obtainable from the Union Bank
of Australia, Ltd., or from the undersigned.
FRANK THOMPSON,
Christchurch, General Manager.
March 1, 1920.
The Criterion Hotel,
ROCKHAMPTON.
T N consequence of the death of the late owner,
-*- tenders are invited for the purchase of all that
valuable Freehold Property known as the Criterion
Hotel, Rockhampton (the Commercial Capital ot
Central Queensland), together with the old-estab-
lished business, furniture and plant, as a going
concern. “A walk-in-walk-out transaction.”
This Hotel is a handsome, massively-constructed
three-storey brick building-, occupying: a splendid
position, designed by one of the leading architects
in Australia.
It enjoys a splendid reputation both in respect
of the building and accommodation, and. the first-
class character of the business. Max O'Rell
‘‘Next to the Hotel Australia in Sydney the
best Hotel I have come across in Australia.”
Tenders will be received up to 12 noon on the
7th day of May, 1920, at the office of the Union
Trustee Company of Australia, Limited, 398-400
Queen Street. Brisbane (Q.).
Full particulars and terms and conditions of
sale may be ascertained, also Form of Tender mV
be obtained, on application to the undersigned. The
highest or any tender not necessarilv accepted.
THE UNION TRUSTEE 00. OF AUSTRALIA, Ltd.,
398-400 Queen Street, Brisbane.
333 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Or 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except oj a hostile character ) will be
taken oj communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. So
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
F.G.H.: Sorry, but there is enough iu
hand to carry that slang-poetry discussion on for
months, and it has mooched far enough already....
Buzz: Rather late in the day to ask wonderingly
why the price of this or that has gone up, even if
it is Australian. You can’t have a borrowing boom
(spending the money on things that don’t earn
interest) and a g'o-slow boom without paying lor it.
F.G.S.: Couldn’t throw a brick that size with-
out better evidence than one skipper’s say-so.. . .
Keith: That one isn’t worth while. And don't
jamb the lines together... .C. Green: Condense and
try again... .D.H.P.: Don’t know what “worvong"
means; but somebody in the crowd might... .Jacky
Roo: Thanks for those old friends. Haven’t seen
them for years....D. Grove: Impossible to read
such badly-typed copy. Did you see it before it
was despatched?. .. .Ooolah: Don’t know; write to
the paper that published the statement and ask
for the authority E.L.J.: ’’Ruling Class" not
bright enough.... J.H.S.: No use to us in that form.
. ...S.E.N.: Don’t care for “Listener’s Lure”....
C.G.T.: “Happy Homestead” impossible....Darina :
Not up G.L.8.: The metre is wooden... .E.O.
(Oronulla) : Doesn’t add anything to what has been
said... .Banyook: Interesting matter there. See if
you can’t arrange it better. .. .C.D.C.: Get the
“Dutchman” to walk without bumping. ... Dorothy
G.: Verse won’t do; yarn held for inquest. ... K.K.:
There couldn't have been much less in it. .. .T.0.W.:
“Shooting Stars” is a bit too obvious.. . .Gee Bung-
Horrible verse on a futile theme... .Yarrow: Nice
moral sentiments in verse that doesn’t matter the
toss of a cow’s tail... . A.0.C.: Not tip.... D.M.H.:
It was a wet day and you wanted the rain to go
away. Not much to make a song about.... Black
W.: Some of it goes very nicely; but wliat a wallop
it comes on “reflecting some!”... .D.F.P.: Thin
little yarn... .Stanley C.: The same old tale in
metre utterly unsuitable... ,M.R. (Returnrk): Awful.
.. . .Sydney L.: Doesn’t strike us. .. .B.D. (Calliope) :
An old theme handled in the old way... .R.L.T.:
Not dainty enough for that sort of thing....o. Cut-
purse: “Ills of the Flesh” deserved better handling.
. ...F.A.IL: You say “There is one, perchance, to
whom m,v songs may sweeter sound.” Possibly; but
he isn’t in this office. ... ILF.K.: Your final remark
may have been pious, but it was neither gram-
matical nor polite... .J.T.A.: Might sell “Hegarty”
elsewhere A.M.: “Needlework” has a refrain that
would break an* elocutionist’s jaw. ~ . 11.G.W.: Have
a look at a flitch or two of it:—
This little spot in the Atlantic,
St. Helena by name,
Is very isolated.
Notorious, and of fame.
The very home for criminals,
For thiefs and murderers;
The. very home for the German autocrat
Who upset the universe.
.... Figaro: The point of the fable doesn’t seem
worth sharpening. .. .W.M. (Hobart): Verse very
lumpy... .C.0.H.: That’s the third death from thirst
within the week. And it’s so easy to die that way
in verse.... Allan W.: No u5e....1.F. (Milson's
Point): Feeble... .S.E.F.J.: Your handwriting ’s
like ravelled string dipped in ink.... Lance E.:
The little parable faints by the way.... J.H.P.:
Scrawl in sickly pencil declined Tui Kingi:
You couldn’t have made it much more inane if you
had tried... .D.W.L.: The verses are not up; but
it’s worth trying again Sydney Side: That verse
can be made to sing better; the idea is g00d....
J.8.C.: Doesn’t make a yarn Old Booze: No use.
....Dorothy S.: You don’t get beyond the common-
place.... The Mug: You can’t rhyme “take” with
“gate”.,. .J.L.: “The Bear” must go home....
McAussie: Nowhere near 8.K.A.G.: Don’t know
why you haven’t a “gift of words” ; but you haven’t.
.....F.lt.G.: Get something real to write about. All
the changes have been rung on that tune....
Oliver B.: That’s in your very best manner:—
. ...C.S.G.: As far as “A Thought” can be read, it
doesn’t seem to resemble verse R.L.H.: Doesn’t
quite do it Mick P.: No use to us Iota: No.
...F.R.W.: Poor attempt F.B. (Sandringham):
Very bad F.W.S.: It doesn’t call for a place.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.D.F.: You can’t draw well enough, and the
humor has to work overtime to do its job.... Jack
O.: A chestnut illustrated by a beginner. No sale.
.. . . J.H.F.: Both women are flat, and one has only
half a set of features Cam II.: The diagram is
puzzling, but the Deputy Ait Editor thinks the toy
policeman was crawling across the book in search
of a lost ideal when the reader shut the volume
and squashed everything L.G.C.: Work on. At
present you jamb everything together and leave out
the eyes... .C.V.J.D.: Why does the vampire look
straight at the reader? Does she resent his staring
at her bare back? He’s paid his sixpence....
Adelaide: Can’t use the pencil drawing, though your
brief direction, “Place it in the next publication,”
leads like a command from the Deity A. J.McR.:
Don’t be so fussy. Try for a firm line E.U.C.:
Fuzzy pencil drawings Get some Indian ink
J.F.: Mum' might have been made .more graceful.
And look round for some joke which doesn’t mix
the pudding in a stocking Rej C.: Movement in
it, but you can do with some hard study.. . .F.P.R.:
Not surprised to hear you can't find jokes to fit
inch drawings H.0.5.M.: The Johnnie with his
back to the potted palm seems to be attempting
“the splits,” and his head is parted in the middle.
His friend isn’t interested, and we don’t blame him.
.. . .M.M.: You’ve been looking hard at drawings of
American negroes. No use here... .E.S.: The girl’s
hend is too large, and she talks like her grand-
mother.
Mother, can I forget when I as a lad,
My thoughts of you turn me sad;
Look ! Little I knew that I was bad‘;
Things have changed now, I’m glad.
Although you are grey, mother dear,
Little you know how near, how near,
tine never knows until time is spent,
To think of folly, but in time repent.
Then again you feel the strain
Sore : there’s something missing,
Nibbling the heart, the pain.
Hark ! The footstep, listen!
As she lieth upon her bed,
Just lingering, Ah, she said,
That’s him, that's him, I hear his tread,
Good-bye, good-bye; she was .


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE-
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabin es-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
,M,ra to Ftathrooms.
Single-berth Looms.
Kleotrio T.ifts and I.aundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Thii'd-elass
tares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Bakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, APRIL 14,
SONOMA.
10,0U0 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282.
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
T H f. North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS ; also to BYRON BAY’, COFF'S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Byron Bay anti the beautiful Tweed River.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SY’DNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 13s. (id. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 7s. Cd. For particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
lit. (Chairman): WILLIAM DAVIES; E. 11.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; lion. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager : J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Heatl Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . • • • • 770,127 10 0
Reserve Fund . . . . • • • • 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 6
.411 new business since 1803 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Banning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. TV. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love. Esq.;
W. H. ITart, Esq. ; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
Generai, Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
IIKAI) OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerioa. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital ....£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors : HERBERT R. LYSAGIIT, Esq., Chairman ;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager : G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 146 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guarauteed StocK.. .. .. £629,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
U Paid-up 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
grants drafts
RECEIVES deposits
at Interest lor
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST. AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, April 26.
R.M.S. MAKURA, May 27.
The most beautiful Scenery In the World—the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Palis and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
Tlie Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Calls, etc.
MOANA, from Wellington, April 22.
Connecting Steamer from Sydney, April 15.
For Illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£4,639,1«0
3,200,000
4,639,160
£12,478,320
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.0.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, F.sq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The lion. James T. Walker.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq
General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
j
Australia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Town* of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2782 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
War Service Homes, as Agent for the Commissioner
(A special Department in each Capital City)
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1920 Governor
SAVE ALL YOU CAN
by depositing in the
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales
(Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY).
Deposits accepted from 1/- upwards. Interest paid at
3f per cent, per annum on every complete £ up to £5OO.
Personal, Joint and Trust Accounts opened.
140 Branches and 501 Agencies throughout the State.
Skipping-.
ĵ
Osaka ShosenKaisha
(O.S.K. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service Manila,
Hong Kong, Japan and the Hast. Tran-
shipment cargo accepted for ail Eastern
ports, Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhipping at Japan.
MADRAS MARU, middle April.
KOSUKtJ MARU, end April-
early May.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
of Australia,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
40 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: City 4106, Six Lines.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide.
Huddart ParkerLjs?
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
REAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED.
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSHN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
Monthly Sailings thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government.
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia.
RUPTURE\
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we sta.e
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vio.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Manating Agents for:
Australasian United steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS KOI!:
Biitish India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
p. & 6. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line ('Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane. , , ■ . . .
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. at Queens-
land Ports). , ,
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports). „ , , _ i. \
Iluddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney. Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberpc, Bowen and Cooktown.
| Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


I
' ’'lf///
\»«I•///.
o i{ o
BILLIARD ScSNOOKE
1
iiiliiiUillUilili iIiUiUUiAU
UiaiuiuuUiWnimm 1 -^
ft
Q
TOT
In play they are resilient —faultless in running— true to angle and of perfect balance.
Far and away superior to any other ball. Unaffected by climatic conditions.
BILLIARD BALLS
Sizes: i|i n ljin, 2in. 2.Hn.
10/6 15/6 21/- 30/-set
(Poetagre on One Set—N.S.W., 9d.; Other States, Hi).
SNOOKER BALES
Sizes: 1 f in. 1 f in. 2in 2,iin.
£4,5/- £4/15,'- £5/5,'- £10,10,'-set
(We Pay Carriage on Snooker Balls).
Sole Australasian Distribute
rs
LIC
Headquarters—Haymarket, Sydney.
New City Sports Depot: 99 King Street.
And at Newcastle and Brisbane.
j
CoiVSUlt US! ° n Water Supply
and Irrigation.
Wc have a Large 8 Varied Stock of Pumping Machinery.
Some Specialities of our own make are:—
Hercules Windmills. 1.8. C. Walking Beam Pumping
Plants.
Hercules Oil Engines. 1.8.CJ Centrifugal Pumps.
Hercules Boring Plants. Brass Artesian and Deep-
Well Pump Cylinders.
Syphon Windmill Pumps. Pump Bods; Drive Well
Points.
Sheep and Cattle Trougliing, and Water-raising
Appliances of all kinds.
mack T Galvanised and k «i° f Ball . Valves, Foot Valves, Water Fittings; “National” Pipe,
Standard). * nd S,team; National” Black and Galvanised Casing (the World's
ĵ
j
Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd.
Merchants, Engineers & Contractors,
418-424 8 453-460 Ann Street,
( £r s Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.
nearby). Works: Yee ongpilly.
rrrt.
cnsland
calling!
ĵ
j
To the Tourist, Scientist, Investor
and, with a hundred voices from her millions
of acres, to the Man in search of Land.
Free Information on all subjects
available at once on receipt of this coupon.
|N amp
Address -
Queensland Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
€t
ROSS”
Race Glasses.
“Ross” race glasses have the largest field of vision
of any prism race glasses made in any part of the
world.
They embody the highest optical attainments in
scientific lenses, and thus secure the greatest pos-
sible clearness and definition.
We do not. know of any better glass made.
They are English made throughout—which means
strength and perfection of make.
They are hermetically sealed, and so climate does not
deteriorate them.
They are sold at English catalogue prices plus part
onlv of duty and importing expenses.
FAIRFAX S ROBERTS LTD
PLAIN FIGURES—CASH ONLY.
“ Ross ” Race Glasses are the Best
the World Produces.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 8 25 Hunter Street, Sydney.
COATES’
Original Plymouth
DRY GIN
This famous British
Gin has been justly
termed “The purest
spirit in the world.”
It is mellow, mature,
rich in beneficial juni-
per—absolutely pure!
For 127 years this
original Plymouth Gin
has consistently main-
tained its quality
standard.
Insist on having Coates’
—order it by the bottle.
All good hotels, clubs,
etc.
Inter-State Agents:—
MELB.: H. J. Langdon & Co.
BRISBANE: Perkins & Co., Ltd.
WEST AUS.: Seppelt & Son.
s3*
jLi
A
V
u
A


Sister Hope swears by
\
,■/
bIXTkH UOl’U (jrom a photo}.
Rexona
Sister Hope is one of Sydney’s
most popular Hair and Skin
Specialists. She is fully quali-.
fied and medically trained, and is
an authority on what is best for the
Skin and Hair, and writes as fol-
lows :
It. is with pleasure I pen
these lines In praise of your
hygienic Rexona Soap. It
speaks for itself by conveying a
most delightful feeling of
freshness, and is excellent as a
cleaning agent for the scalp,
imparting to the hair that soft
and fluffy appearance so much
sought after. Rexona is the
only soap I use in my estab-
lishment.
Yours sincerely,
SISTER HOPE,
Masseuse and Hair Specialist,
Lyceum House,
214 Pitt Street. Sydney.
GIRLS! REXONA SOAP Gives Natural
Beauty to Skin and Hair.
That natural beauty of skin and hair, which cannot be Imitated, can be
obtained by regular use of Rexona Skin and Facial Soap. Ordinary toilet
soaps do not assert this
Influence. Many of them
contain free alkali, which
tends to dry the skin and
destroy its delicate tex-
ture. Even the best of
snch soaps can only
cleanse, they cannot heal
and protect the skin.
Rexona Soap contains the
same soothing;, healing,
antiseptic balsams as
Rexona the Rapid Healer,
the value of which In the
treatment of skin affec-
tions is known through-
out the world. Simply use
Rexona Skin and Facial
Soap regularly once or
twice a day, and see if it
does not quickly soothe
and cleanse the pores,
lessen the tendency to
pimples, and leaves the
complexion clear, fresh
and velvety.
THE SAFETY PEN NEVER LEAKS.
Self-Filling, 17/- Valvele«», 12/6.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens—Obtainable Everywhere
Y//////SS//S//A/AAY r /S?W//7/Z-77-
wm
61M11V
m
hi
m
V/a
AA
%->.
m
V/A
V/,
I
Punncs
FACIAL
SKI
MEDICATED SOAP
Rexona Proprietary Company*
Sydney. N.S.W.
m.
m
m
m
m.
m
Vs?
Large and Lasting Tablet.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
:Q
r
3s
55
i
aw
XThe
feci
Pe
Pi
Off
4
A reminder for Easter
When a man gets away from his work for a holiday
sojourn, it is certain he will smoke more often
than at any other time. When you’re buying
“comforts” for your holiday remember that the
BEST pipe at a moderate price is the famous
British GBD.
MANY SHAPES. SOLD EVERYWHERE.
The Song of Youth.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
4 T half-past twelve by tne cuckoo-clock,
-A I woke last night with a startled
shock,
And saw. in the starlight, spinning there,
A wee white witch in a mantle fair.
A pixie pout on her thin, red lips,
Keeping time more true than a fairy trips,
She hummed a song as her spindle flew,
And the wheel went “Whir-rr” to a tune I
knew.
"Good night,” said she. “Were you dreaming
well”—
Her voice was the peal of an elfin bell—-
"That you slept so sound when I called to
you?
I was cold outside, so I hurried through.
I looked awhile in her eyes’ soft grey.
"You are late,” I said, “It was yesterday
When I heard you sing, and I sought the
world
For the phantom spell that your fingers
twirled.”
She laughed a low little, old-time laugh,
And she teased me mad with her quip and
chaff.
“Oh, you taunting dream,” I was calliug
her —
‘Will you go away?” But she made no stir.
Like the last sweet air of a love-mad bird,
Like the talk of grass that an elf-queen
stirred,
Oh, the notes rang soft, and the notes pierced
shrill.
Till the angry heart in my breast stood still!
“Good-bye,” said she with a sudden start.
“Oh, a friend just meets for a friend to part.”
And the cuckoo-clock with a jump struck one
In the mirth of the morning just begun.
I called to her, but the wind came back
With a skirling shriek through the branches
black;
And, on tip-tip-toe, I w T as out of bed.
For still in the room were her wheel and
thread.
Woidd you learn, sad heart, what she left me
there.
What her fingers spun in the starlit air?
Would you know the lilt of her old-time song
That drew my soul with its youth along?
I must not tell, but the green trees talk
And the wild birds laugh as the woods I walk.
I’ll never tell, but the young world swings
To the old, old song that a fairy sings.
N.s.w.
ZOR CROSS.
Bill.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HM.S. Emu was anchored in the
Coal River, and seaward of her
* the curious lump of sedimentary
rock known then as Coal Island and now
as Nobby’s stood up out of placid waters
reflecting the last red glow of the sunset that
reached up into the zenith from behind the
purple ranges far away westward, beyond
dark belts of mangrove.
It was a dead calm, and the ocean hardly
broke on the 20-mile beach that curves away
north-eastward towards Port Stephens.
Fleets of gulls seemed to be anchored astern
of the brig swinging to the ebbin'? tide, and
her tall soars and black hull, with its line
of white gun-ports, stood out against the red
sky and the pink waters and the indefinite-
ness of the brief spell of twilight in a
strangely-emphatic fashion that was curi-
ously impressive to the woman who stood
gazing at her from the narrow sands near
the little jetty of the King’s Wharf.
She was not a very beautiful woman —
there were grey hairs in the dark auburn
masses coiled about her head, her face was
pale and livid, and she had only one eye—
but the way she held herself had something
suggestive in it of a time v r hen such a car-
riage might have been stimulated by the
consciousness of good looks. Indeed, you
would have said that there had been a day
when she had even been handsome. The
coarse and ragged dress of a female pri-
soner —a’most the minimum of decency in
clothing was so out of keeping with her
personality as to seem remarkable. Middle-
aged ai d thin, worn with sufferings that
were probably spiritual rather than physical,
almost gar at in the weathered raiment that
hung 100-ely about her, she was, nevertheless,
one of t: >se women you would turn to look
after win never you might chance to see her,
whether it was by Sydney Cove, in the yard
of the factory at Parramatta, or here on
the edge of the little, severe penal settlement
at Newi istle. There was something com-
pelling in her very presence, something
tragic, something that hinted at a story that
was different from the stories of most female
convicts in the year of our Lord 1816.
She stood silently gazing at the warship
as the sunset faded into the cold obscurity
of the brief twilight, and. until the lights in
the rigging and hull began to shine out
against the low r northern shore, she was
motionless as a statue on the beach. More
than once the sentry on the wharf halted
to look at her. half-doubtful whether he
should not challenge her presence there. He
spoke to the corporal who marched the relief
just before dark.
“D—d if I know what she be at, corp’ril,
but she’s been a-standin’ that-a-way this last
hour an’ more, a-lookin’ acrost at th’ King’s
ship. I’d a mind for to hail her. Mehbe
I should ha’ done so?”
The corporal turned to look at her and
laughed.
“Oh, her!” he said. “Don’t ye know' her,
Ben? ’Tis that woman lives uo the hill
near the cliff by herself. Mad Carry they
call her. She’s all right. You needn’t bother
about her, Jem.” he told the new' sentry.
“She’s not a-goin’ to da-away wi’ herself.
O’ny a little loony—that’s all.”
In the last of the light a boat detached
itself from the brig-of-war and came gliding
over the waters to the little jetty. When the
sound of the oars in the rowdocks became
audible, the woman’s intent pose relaxed, and
she walked slowK towards the wharf and
stood close beside the sentry.
The soldier looked at her curiously, but
she made no remark, and appeared to be
intent upon nothing but the ship’s boat as
its crew tossed their oars when it glided
alongside the jetty. An officer climbed
the ladder and stood a moment looking
down at the upturned faces of the seamen.
“Eleven o’clock sharp, Briggs,” she heard
him say to the coxswain. “Don’t be late.
“Aye, aye, sir,” the man called back.
“Shove off there, bowman.” Then the woman
turned and walked swiftly away into the
darkness. The officer —who was Lieutenant
Gregory Wicks, R.N., first lieutenant of the
Emu, and temporarily in command during
the absence of the captain on sick leave
in Sydney—did not notice her. lie walked
across the flat where the railway yard is
now, and up the hill towards tne quarters
of the commandant —tne good captain
Wallis, of H.M. 46th Regiment —with w'hom
he was to sup.
The woman had preceded him in the same
direction, but at a pace that was nearly
a run, and as she hurried along she mut-
tered to herself in a fashion that mignt
almost have been craziness:
“ ’Tis Mx*. Wicks, surely,” she murmured,
“and he’ll not return aboard until 11. Time
to save him —time to save him. Oh, my
God —how cruel, how terribly cruel! My
poor Will!”
Up through the little town she hastened,
past Captain Wallis’s cottage, past the gaol
and out on to the windy uplands beyond
the southern end of the beach, until she
came to a little lonely hut standing back
30 yards or so from the edge or the cliff,
a good half-mile beyond the limits of the
straggling village. Down below the surf
roared amongst the rocks, but everything
was still and quiet about the tiny dwelling-
place, through whose one glassless window
shone dimly the flickering light from a feeble
fire. The door was closed, and she rapped
upon it softly.
“Will,” she almost whispered,-as if afraid
that even in this lonely place she might be
heard. “Will, dear, ’tis your Carry. Open
the door.”
In a second or two the low 7 doorway also
framed the dim glow of the fire, and then
the silhouette of a broad-shouldered man,
who stooped as he peered out into the dark
ness.
“Carry?” came the response, in a deep
bass rumble. “I thought ye’d never return.”
She slipped inside, and the man closed
the door and shot the rough wooden bolt
that secured it from within. The woman
sank down upon a stool bv the hearth and
busied herself with the fire, adding a few
sticks to it so that presently the light was
stronger. It was not until the blaze had
brightened and lit up the interior of the
hut that either of them spoke.
“Well?” said the man in a tone that was
strained and anxious.
He was a red-faced, clean-shaven man,
clad in the uniform of a boatswain of the
Royal Navy—a strong-looking man, and not
unhandsome. A thick pigtail hung down
his back. On the rough table lay his glazed
hat. Over his strong face, as he gazed at
the woman crouching by the fire, came a
look that was almost tender with the gentle-
ness of pity. She stared into the fire, and
seemed to avoid his eyes.
“Will,” she said at length, piteously, “ye
must not do it —even for me. Dear heart,”
she whispered, “ ’tis not to be. Ye must
get aboard. ’Tis not too late. Your off Der
has come ashore, and will not go off to the
ship until 11 o’clock. You must be there
before him. You must —you must,” she said
imploringly, as she turned to look up at him.
“I’ll not leave ye alone in Hell, lass,”
he said slowly. “Not for all the King’s ships
afloat. If you must be in Hell —then so
must I.”
The woman hid her face in her hands,
and her shoulders shook with soundless sobs.
* w # *
“Yes,” said Mr. Wicks to Captain Wallis,
a little mournfully, as they sat smoking on
the verandah of the Commandant’s quarters,
“I’d give fifty pounds to have him back.”
“Ah, my dear Wicks, and is he such a
valuable man as all that? I should have
supposed that in your service-—from its
peculiar conditions common to all ranks —
it would not be verv difficult to replace a
petty-officer who had deserted. What?”
“Not ordinarily. That’s quite true. But
Bill Miller’s an exceptional man, d—-d
exceptional. I’ve never in my life come
across a bos’n that could hold a farthing
dip to Bill! He’s unique—in a elas3 by
himself. I should call Bill Miller the
Perfect Bos’n —if such a thing can be said
to exist. The very last thing that I should
have looked for was for Bill to desert.”
“Well—but, my dear Wicks, are you quite
convinced that he has deserted?”
“It looks like it. The day before yester-
day he asked me for leave to go ashore
for the day. I said to him, ‘Bill, you can
have three days, if you like.’ One would
do him, he says. lie seemed to me to be
a little worried about something or other.
I’ve always been good friends with Bill—
curiously enough, we’ve been shipmates in
three different ships since I was first a
midshipman. Been in one or two tight
places with him, too. An’ he saved my
life once, in the Bay of Bengal, me having
fallen overboard from the mainyard in a
gale. More than once he’s stood to me when
I was in the devil of a scrape—court-
martial scrapes, I mean. An’ I’ve stuck to
Bill when he was in trouble. So we’re
friendly enough for me to ask him if there
was any trouble in the wind.”
“And there was, I presume?”
“Yes —of the queerest sort —you’d hardly
credit it. If I didn’t know Bill wouldn’t
lie to me—though he’s not so particular as
to other people—l’d hardly credit it my-
self.”
“Mav I venture to hope that I may be
taken into the confidence of your excellent
bos’n?” Captain Wallis asked smilingly.
“I’ll engage it shall go no farther.”
“Of course. ’Twas like this. You must
know that our Bill is of somewhat uxorious
habit.”
“An excellent phrase, my dear Wicks.
What does it mean?”
“It means that he’s got a wife in nearly
every port of the known globe—you know,
sailor fashion. A d—d libel, of course,
generally; but in Bill’s case it’s almost
literally true. He has told me of some of
’em from time to time. There’s one in
Port o’ France, one in Liverpool, two in
Portsmouth, about half a dozen in London
—and the Lord alone knows how many else-
(Continued an newt poye.)


ĵ
Do you realise the Danger of a
Zam-Buk Cleanses and Purifies —Kills the
forms —Banishes Festering and Inflammation,
and Heals with Healthy Skin.
A cut or scratch is the gateway through which dangerous disease germs
enter the body.
When a dirty knife, a rusty needle, a splinter or a thorn scratches the
finger, the latter is inoculated with germs. Directly these germs are intro-
duced through the breach in the skin a battle royal ensues between them
and certain living creatures dwelling in our blood.
Usually the invading germs are too strong for Nature’s defences, and in a few
hours the finger will become hot and throbbing. It will be painful to the touch
and swell all round the injury. The inflammation set up by the poison may
spread until the whole hand and arm are rendered useless.
The only way to avoid such serious results is to cleanse the wound, however
wight, and then apply Zam-Buk, which is a powerful antiseptic and germ-killer.
Zam-Buk is a pure preparation, and when applied to the broken skin is naturally
absorbed into the tissue, whence it ejects the germs that are spreading disease and
inflammation. The flesh is thus soothed and purified, the wound made perfectly
healthy, and all poison and cause of festering removed. Having done this, Zam-
Buk then proceeds to heal the wound or sore with new, healthy skin in a quick,
painless and perfect manner.
o
y#., yy
/
It ,
%
TRADESMAN’S
PRAISE
FOR ZAM-BUK.
"My son Aliek,” writes Mrs.
Jane Craddock, 70 Wellington
Street. Petrie Terrace, Bris-
bane, “is a plumber by trade,
and he is often cut and badly
scratched when handling gal-
vanised iron. This occurs so
frequently that immediate at-
tention is necessary to prevent
his hands getting poisoned or
inflamed. For this purpose he
always carries a supply of Zam-
Buk, and in ease of accidents
he at once applies the balm.
The result is that the soothing
and healing properties of Zam-
Buk begin to act at once, and
a cut, however deep and severe,
has no chance to inflame or be-
come serious.”
FESTERED SORE ON SHIN.
Mrs. Elizabeth Hill, 99 Abercrombie Street,
Red fern, Sydney, writes: —“Some time ago 1
knocked my shin-bone, cutting the skin. The
wound festered, and I had the greatest difficulty
in getting about.
“Although I tried all sorts of ointments, I derived no
benefit, and the inflammation spread right up to the
knee. I happened to have a sample of Zam-Buk at this
time, and was so much encouraged by a first application of the
balm that I obtained a further supply. Zam-Buk took away
all the inflammation, and made a complete cure in a remark-
ably short time.”
THE EVER-READY, EVER-RELIABLE HOME HEALER.
Refuse Inferior
Substitutes.
Imitators may be
Flatterers, but they are
ONLY Imitators.
ASK FOR AND GET
ZAM-BUK.
Zam-Buk is invaluable for Cuts,
Bruises, Burns, Scalds, Abrasions,
Boils, Eczema, Pimples, Running
Sores, Scalp Diseases, Poisoned
Wounds, Festering Sores, Bad
Eegs, Ulcers, Abscesses, Ring-
worm and injured and diseased
conditions of the skin. As an
embrocation for all deep-seated
local pains such as Rheumatism,
Sciatica, etc., it is unsurpassed.
Zam-Buk is obtainable from all
Chemists and Stores at Is. 6d.
per pot, and Ss. Gd. family size.
*
"RUB IT fly.”
where! I’m inclined to think that Bill is
not quite sure of the tally himself.”
“A perfect King Solomon, by Jove!”
“Never heard of the gentleman. But if
you mean that our Bill’s by way of being a
holy terror for the women, you’re right, Mr.
Commandant. He’s extraordinary—most
extraordinary. Well, it’s like this. Bill
came ashore here on Tuesday, and almost
the first thing that happens to him is
that he runs slap into the very first wife.,
he’d ever married.”
“Dear me—you don’t say so!”
“A solemn fact. Met her on the beach,
almost as soon as he’d stepped out of the
boat. Bill told me all about her. She’d
been a lady’s maid at Chatham to an artil-
lery colonel’s wife —very superior sort of girl,
Bill says. That’s fifteen yeax-s ago, when
he was a gunner’s mate in the Belleisle.
They married, after a rather diflicult court-
ship on Bill’s part, and in three months
Bill’s ship was ordered to the Mediter-
ranean. He was in those parts for nigh
upon two years, and when he came back
she’d disappeared, not leaving a trace behind
her—an’ no one knows where she’d gone
to. But there weren’t wanting mischief-
making people—you know, long-tongued
women of both sexes—who assured Bill
she’d cleared out with a sei’geant of Marines
who’d deserted the sei*vice and gone to
America. All d —d lies, as it has turned out,
but after a while they succeeded in con-
vincing Bill, and this makes him so bitter
that he puts in all his spare time, all over
the world, in taking a sort of revenge upon
the sex by mari-yin’ them whenever he
could, and sailing away and leaving them
to their own devices. Not quite right, of
course—but Bill was very bitter.”
“And what had happened to his real wife?
Why did she go away?”
“I’m coming to that. It seems that she
went up to London one day, and stepped
into a shop to buy something. She laid her
cloak on the counter while she was looking
at what she wanted to buy, and suddenly
there’s a devil of a fuss over the shopman
missing a card of pretty expensive lace.
Another woman left the shop hurriedly at
the first sign of the i-obbery, and, to make
a long story short, the shopman lifts up Mrs.
Bill’s cloak, and thei-e’s the missing lace.”
“Did he accuse the woman of taking it?”
“Yes—and what’s more, a lying assistant
shopman said he saw her put it there. Well,
the mex’chant was sick of being robbed, so he
gave the poor woman in charge, and damme
if she doesn’t get sentenced to death. But
they transported her for life, and she was
sent out here, where she’s been ever since.
Proud sort of girl—she let none of her
friends know anything about it. Simply
disappeared out of her world. She’s had a
hell of a time. Bill says. Had her eye
poked out in some row amongst the female
pi-isoners in the Factory at Parramatta
three years ago, and was sent here for being
mixed up in it—though she had nothing ar
all to do with it. So here she is, and I
suppose Bill’s left the ship on her account.
Dammit, though, lie might have come to me,
and talked it over,” gi'owled Mr. Wicks, in
a somewhat aggrieved fashion.
“Perhaps he’ll come back.” said Captain
Wallis, consolingly.
“Well, if he comes to-night I can over-
look it, under the presumption that he took
the three days 1 offered nim and which he
refused in the first instance. But after to-
night I’ll have to regard him as a deserter.
We sail for Sydney at dawn, as you know.”
“A pity—a great pity. From what you
say, he seems to be a good man. If he is
your service will half flog him
to death, and then he’ll probably come to
some such place as this—God help him !”
“Captain Wallis,” said Mr. Wicks, with
some hesitation, “if he should come into
your hands. I’d take it very kindly if you
could contrive to let him slip out of them
again. Impossible, eh? Infernal impudence
on my part to suggest such a thing? I beg
that you will accept my apologies—pray do
so, sir.”
For a moment or two the Commandant’s
kindly face was a little grave; then he
smiled, as he held out his hand to the young
naval officer, who had risen to take his
leave.
“Well, well, Wicks, my dear fellow —I’ll
do what I can,” he said. “A little irregular,
perhaps, to discuss such matters—but
possibly something can be done. Well,
good-night-—good-night.”
As he walked down to the beach Mr. Wicks
was so lost in thought concerning the absent
boatswain that even the sentry’s challenge
failed to rouse him from his abstraction, and
it was not until he became aware of that
zealous soldier’s bayonet in the vicinity of
his waistcoat that lie realised his arrival at
the King’s Wharf. Informing the sentry
that he was a friend, and giving the pass-
word, he stepped down into the waiting boat
and ordered the coxswain to shove off.
The moon was up high above the dark
line of the edge of the world to seaward, and
all the river mouth glittered and shone and
sparkled in its brilliant radiance, as the boat
approached the ship. As they drew near
to her dark hull the coxswain spoke to him.
“1 do baag y’r honor’s pardon,” he said,
“but he’rn coom aboord.”
“What—who?” Mr. Wicks answered
quickly. “Who’s come aboard? Not
Miller?”
“If y’r honor plazes—yes.”
“Why—how did he come?”
“Syvum, y’r honor-*-scarce an hour since.”
“Good God!” exclaimed Mr. Wicks re-
lieved. “Find him, Pearce—as soon as
you’ve hoisted the boat in—and send him to
me in the great cabin. Tell him I want
him at once.”
Tin minutes later the boatswain of
H.M.S. Emu stood before his commanding
officer, clad in dry clothing, but with his face
so strangely lined and drawn, his brows so
knitted, and his eyes so shining that that
gentleman knew he was speaking with a man
who suffered almost to the breaking of his
manhood.
“Well, Bill, so ye’ve come back?” said Mr.
Wicks kindly. “You didn’t des —I mean fo
say, you took the three days, after all?”
“Aye, y’r honor.”
After a pause that was not comfortable to
him, during which he drummed on the table
with his fingers, as if uncertain as to how’ he
should go on, Mr. Wicks got up and went to
the sideboard, w’hence he returned with a de-
canter of rum and two glasses.
“A glass of grog, Bill? Ye'll do well with
it after your swim. Sit ye down, and tell
me of your trouble. We’re old shipmates,
and ye know me for a friend—don’t ye now’?
Sit ye down, Bill—sit ye down. Now, w’hat
has happened about your w’ife?”
“Y’r honor,” the boatswain spoke slowly,
and in a low tone, “y’r honor, I must tell y’r
honor, I meant for to desert the ship an’ stay
ashore. That poor girl’s in Hell in this
place, and ’tis but right I should share her
misery—since all these years I’ve judged her
so harsh and wrong—so wicked, cruel, an’ so
on-nat’ral as I’ve been consarning her.
Gawd —how she must.have suffered!”
“And why didn’t you, Bill?”
“Y’r honor, she w’ent and stood upon the
edge of the cliff behind her hut, an’ threat-
ened me she’d cast herself over on to th’
rocks if so be as I’d not promise to come
back to th’ ship. And, by Jesus, I knowed
she meant it! What could a man do but
promise? What could a man do?” he
repeated in a straining whisper. “What
could a man do?”
Mr. Wicks got up and walked the length
of the cabin towards the quarter-deck. When
he turned he found the boatswain with his
head bowed upon his arms upon the table,
whilst his shoulders heaved and shook, and a
deep groan burst from his sorely tried heart.
The First-Lieutenant walked aft to the open
stern windows, and stood staring out at the
moonlit waters of the Coal River, towards
the dark mangrove belts up-stream. Here
was a problem that not all his seamanship
could solve.
Ten minutes, maybe, he stood there study-
ing the gleaming waters with unseeing eyes.
At length, with a muttered exclamation, he
turned.
"D —n my silly eyes.” lie murmured,
“why not? There was Sally Lamb in the
Polyphemus, and Mary Bates in the Lan-
caster. Damme, why not?”
“Bill !” he said briskly.
The boatswain looked up, dry-eyed and
anguished.
“Y’r honor?”
Then Mr. Wicks spoke as harshly as he
was able, whilst the boatswain stared at
him—at first with puzzled resentment, but
at the last with a dawning light of compre-
hension in his eyes, and, finally, with a faint
grin softening the hard misery in his drawn
and anxious features.
“Now look here, Bill,” said Mr. Wicks
firmly, “this d —d silliness must end. Yo
owe your duty to the Navy. Ye must make
up your mind to the situation as it stands.
And I’ve work for ye to do this night t’ at'll
take your mold off your troubles. I want ye
to go ashore again as a press-gang for to
find me a man. Ye know we’re short-handed.
I don’t care if ye press a convict, or whom
ye take, so long as ye bring someone. Ye’ll
take with ye a r.ig from the slop-chest, of
which I’ll presently hand ye the key, and if
the man ye take should prove to be a prisoner
ye’ll dress him in seaman’s clothing before
ye bring him down to the beach. Order out
the gig. and ashore with ye as soon as pos-
sible. You understand? You’re a strong
man, and should be able to collar someone
single-handed. D’ye follow me? We sail at
daylight, so that if you do press a prisoner it
will not matter overmuch. They'll think ’tis
but another of the poor devils has taken to
the woods —as I believe they often do. Now
ye know’ w’hat’s expected of ye—ye’re sure
ye understand me?”
“God bless y’r honor !” mumbled the boat-
swain, raising to his feet. “I thank y’r honor
hearty.”
“ ’Tis not a job for many thanks, bos’n--
at this time o’ night. Wait a moment till 1
get ye a pair of scissors.”
“Scissors, y’r honor?”
“Yes —to cut this man's hair. He may be
verminous. See that ye cut it close.”
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
The Hour Unfading.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I REMEMBER a day. the end of a day.
When the skies, deep-colored, uvere
damask and gold:
What matter now if the skies are grey
And the ashes are white on a tire grown
cold,
Since morning flames through my blood still
run
When, re-creating a picture fled
In the damask and gold of a vanished sun.
Remembrance summons a day long dead?
There was never a pansy flower that grew
By the bay where the great green garden
lies
That was not shamed by the violet hue
Deep-nooled in the wells of your clear
young eyes.
Was it a foolish fancy that came
With the glory of skies that blossomed
above,
That this setting of Love in flower and flame
Was ordered by God, the Lover of Love?
If not for that, then for what great thing
Was the loveliness wrought on skv and
land?
For aught surpassing Love’s happening
Could the Master of Beauty move His
hand?
Now the years that give are the years that
take,
And as pansies wither and droop and go.
And as sunset splendors the skies forsake,
So in violet eyes the shadows may grow.
But what of that? The story is plain;
It is written so high that all may see;
The sun and the stars in their turn shall
wane
And all things perish, even as we.
Yet one hour, one from the countless hours.
Shall fade not, nor die as the years
unfold —
The hour Love found us among the flowers.
That evening under the damask and gold.
N.S.W.
P. E. QUINN.


.v
1
£
.,-' * i‘.fr--:i
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life anti highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTIKGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93,-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
90 Queen Street, Molbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
HO R LICKS
MALTED MILK
fc a pure rich milk combined
with the extract of malted grami
—very digestible and nutritious.
Prepared in a moment. Delicious
to the taste.
Sample will be sent on
receipt of 2d. ifr-stamps
to Hutchinson & Co., Ltd.,
26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
nOr*?*
tv*.
**&»sr ,J Z
for HorficßT
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
GOOD LOOKS
A good clear complexion has much to do with
success in life, especially lor women—and for
men too. It appeals and fascinate*
more than features. You can
always have “good looks”
if you take Carter’s
Little Liver Pills, for
the real source of a
healthy and spotless
face is an active
Liver. They cure
Biliousness, Con-
stipation, Sallow
Skin, Pimples and
CARTERS
ITTLI
IVER
PILLS
Blackheads. In fact they make you better
looking. Safe for children.
Small Pill—Small Boss—Small Prlca.
GENUINE must
bear signature
j
WRIGLEYS
6 bars
4
of this
delicious,
long-lasting
beneficial
sweet
for 3d.
Most economical
refreshment you
can buy.
Get it at Chemists. Con-
fectioners. Tobacco
Shops and Stores.
Be SURE its
WRSGLEYS
kMmmi
' .
fife®:*
is
m
%
s
%
■
SB?
c
£
S 3
o
£
A
a
&
as
V
£
-
:
Ci
$
831
SEALED TIGHT-KEPT RIGHT
The Flavour Lasts
Made by
WRIGLEY'S (Australasia) LTD.
Rosebery, Sydney, N.S.W.
Pm
D
D
=5
JL/JL/^3
a:
ĵ
j
ĵ
j
ĵ
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders*
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the wor^.
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BeilS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Offloe—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
j
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
the Standard Remedy which has outlived the Contest**.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Weed since 1596. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT,
& GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, England*
Insist oh “Singleton’s’’- refuse ail substitutes.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS.—When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depdt, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
REMINGTON UMC
RIFLE.
A SPLENDID RABBIT RIFLE.
m
2 2
SHORT
SHORT
MODEL 24A, .22 Calibre, Solid Breech, Hammerless. Easily taken apart
and assembled, Chambered to fii'e the Ordinary Rim-fire .22 Cartridge.
MAGAZINE HOLDS 11 CARTRIDGES, all of which can be fired as
quickly as trigger can be pulled, without lowering Rifle from the shoulder.
Fitted with Safety Lock. Full directions attached to each rifle.
Weight, 4£lb. PRICE £6 net. Postage or Carriage extra.
Obtainable Retail from the following Sydney Firms:
MARCUS CLAMv, LTD. J. P. KNIGIIf.
COWLES & DUNN. F. LASSETTER & CO., LTD.
GRACE BROTHERS, LTD. NOCK * KIRBY, LTD.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD. MTCIt SIMMONS, LTD.
Also from Country Storekeepers.
WHOLESALE ONLY from following Firms:—
ALDERSON’S, LTD. BRISCOE & CO., LTD. W. S. FRIEND & CO.
JOHN BROOMFIELD, LTD. HALES, LTD. ,T. P. KNIGHT. *
HOLDSWORTH, MACPHERSON & CO. PAUL & GRAY, LTD., Brisbane, Q.
JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD. T. B. HOOPER & CO., Brisbane. Q.
NOYES BROTHERS, LTD.
Australian Representative for the Manufacturers: —
D. D. BRYANT, Box 686 G.P.0., Melbourne.
GENERAL CATALOGUE MAILED FREE ON REQUEST.


ĵ
iMANGROVITEi
LEATHER
23331
j
is the belting that has
PROVED ITSELF BY
PRACTICAL TEST
in the strenuous tasks of daily Power-plant
life. It has shown a remarkable pliability
and strength, and a wonderful capacity for
wear—it is, in durability, best by test.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowlcl, Managing Dlreotor),
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
W. Australia: Clbbs, Bright &Co„ Fremantle
S’tli Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
Victoria and Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co
Melbourne. ’
n
ĵ
THE DRILLS for BIG JOBS
Whether you are drilling a thousand small holes or a
hundred big ones—
"ULTRA CAPITAL” HIGH-SPEED TWIST DRILLS
will make an easy job of a hard one, and save time as well. Preferred
by leading engineers everywhere.
Supplied in all sizes, with square, straight or taper shanks.
Full particulars on request to Desk “A.”
THE EAGLE AND GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD,
Makers of Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel,
310-381 Kent St., Sydney.
261 Katrobe St., Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgroorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle.
John Reid and Nephews, Brisbane.
Paul and Gray, .Ltd., Newcastle.
Charles Atkins and Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Dick’s Balata Belting
for True Economy.
TRADE
j
MARK
Sola Agents:
Registered
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.
‘•'Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 lines).
681-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
30 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
Newcastle Agents—Paul & Cray Ltd.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDCE & SINCLAIR LTD «, Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
t
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £25.
Correspondence invited.
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
landler
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office— , AGENTS—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD., ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, .
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY. Adelaide Brisbane lertl
SWANS Sell Everything Needful for the
Proper Lubrication of the Modern Motor
* such as ■
ROTHERHAM GREASE CUPS.
ROTHERHAM LUBRICATORS.
OIL PUMPS, BOTH MECHANICAL AND
BRASS AND COPPER OIL PIPES.
DASH-BOARD OIL INDICATORS-
HAND OPERATED.
PARTICULARS GLADLY FURNISHED.
SWANS LIMITED, 304 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE HOUSE FOR MOTOR ENGINEERS SUPPLIES.
H
m
\
. -y
If you are interested, write for
our catalogue, giving full
description and capacities,
CENTRIFUGAL Pumps
FOR THE STATION, FARM or DAIRY.
Have you considered the advantages of installing one of these
little Pumps on your property? It means an efficient water
supply at low cost of installing.
Especially adaptable for Irrigation Purposes, General Water
Supply, Tank Filling, Factory Use, etc.
PARKE LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Mac hinery Merchants.
60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.*s.W.
G
■
rvilinear
||%4'
A HIGH-CLASS CONCENTRATING TABLE POSSESSING THE FOLLOWING
NOTEWORTHY CHARACTERISTICS:—
High Efficiency—Extractions up to 97 p.c. have been obtained.
High Capacity—On unclassified feed up to 2 tons per hour.
Small Size, 14ft. x 4ft. Floor Space. Light Weight, 7cwt. Small Power, one-tenth h.p.
is ample. Water, four to ten gallons per minute.
SOLE MAKERS AND PATENTEES:
ĵ
Price £9O F. 0.8.
Sydney, including Packing.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., 10-12 George Street, Camperdown, IM.S.W
