

The Spirit of Age and Wisdom
Machinery Merchants,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant
Specialty
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB —
, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in ail parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
HIIIIIH'l'"
■
min it hi tin will iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifii
N S W- MONT de PIETE D & I C9T LIMITED,
74> SI-.,74. Sydney.
-ADVANCES -
ON ALL CLASSES
OF SECURITY
"WITHOUT POSSESSION
fa/icJ/esaf 21547 Scansion St.,tlelb.. 40 Adelaide St', Brisbane.
29 King St.,Mev»castle. l97*Castlereaqh St.,& 159 George St.,'West, Sydney. -
CAPITAL a 200.000 Phone City 932s .
Joseph W.NiJI, General Manager.
IlllllllUliiiu
nil
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW’* says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
Oil Engines.
m
Head and
Shoulders
above all
others.
Sizes:
V/ h.p.
to 8 h.p.
Stationary
and
Portable.
Order One TO-DAY.
CASH OR EASY TERMS.
R. L. Scrutton 8 Co. Ltd.,
161 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
®V)oritArgu e “
sdfs
Nothiwo
to Argue
About!" 1
&
o
&
Avf> the Best
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctots as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN’S
L
dfs
For INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
World Over
m rs m
MOTOR
...CARS
M
■■a
1
*
I
MR
for protecting galvanised iron and
structural steel.
The loss by rust, within the British Empire, has been estimated at £10,000,000 annually. Pabco
Paint, use# at the right time, would prevent rust and save these millions. Used by you it will
save you pounds.
Pabco is not ordinary oil paint, but a compound that resists moisture, acids and alkalis and
givfis a complete protecting film under all conditions that cause corrosion, and makes rusty
roofs as good as new.
Write us for further particulars, price list, etc., post free.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince,, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L-
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths,Sinks, etc.
e Old Gaelic Whisky
PLAIN, SOLID
TYPE.
SIDE and FACE CUTTERS.
Stocked in Sizes from
2 | x i to 6xl.
Manufaflured by Sir W. G. ARMS TRONG, WHITWORTH & CO. LTD., of A.W. High-Speed Steel
Sole Australian Representatives:
Gilbert 10 8 f.ft I t/f ns PITT street, SYDNEY
1/OUgS © \jQ> 1/lfl., 506 Little Collins Street, Melb
Stocking Agents—-A. SCOTT & CO., 164 Edward Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.) KTD., 894 Hay Street, Perth.
OPAIiOID
PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay.
OPAIjOID
The Bulletin
VoL 41.—N0. 2112.
Thursday, August 5, 1920.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1920 is now ready, and will be.posted
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD., 42S
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.— Abvt.
SUNBEAM
Mr. S. F.
OPINIO
0
’S
0
Sunbeam-Coatalen
AIRCRAFT
ENGINES
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD,
Export Dept. : 62, OXFORD STREET, LONDON, W.l.
Cable ,/Iddress : Head Office :
“SUBEAMOCO, LONDON." WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
i i T X*! J a smooth-
■*- XlAlv* ness and
promptness and progres-
sive development of pick-
up unmatched by that of
any car 1 can call to mind.
ln fact I should
characterise the car as one
that can be driven by the
most critical judge without
a complaint of any single
point of its functioning
As a whole, I
regard this 24 h.p. Sun-
beam as a most notable
addition to the world’s
powerful 6-cylindered cars,
of which the Sunbeam
Company may justly be
very proud, and with
which Sunbeam owners
should not fail to be
thoroughly satisfied.”
dfs
FRASER & WIEESFORD, 822 George Street, Sydney,
The Round Table,
A Quarterly Review
of the - Politics of
the British Com-
monwealth.
JUNE Number: Three articles, giving respectively
French, American and German views of the Peace
Treaty; The Situation in -Egypt; .Problems of
Europe; The Last of the Peace Treaties; Articles
from United Kingdom, Dominions and India.
Price 5/- per copy; 20/- per annum.
Messrs. Macmillan & Co. Ltd., 'Russell St., Melbourne.
The Standard Remedy which, haa ontlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Ptemedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “ Singleton’s "—refuse all substitutes.
Australian
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £41,000,000
Annual Income' nearly .. .. .. £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
11. W. APPERLY, F. 5.5.% General Manager.
This Week’s Toilet Hints
A RARE COLLECTION OF BEAUTY HINTS FROM NEAR'AND FAR.-
IIOME RECIPES.
GETTING RID OF FEMININE
MOUSTACHES.
“Practical Suggestions.”
To women who are annoyed by disfiguring
downy hair growths a method of permanently
eradicating the same will come as a piece of
good news. For-this purpose pure powdered
pheminol may be used. Almost any chemist
should be able to supply an ounce of this
drug. The recommended treatment is de-
signed not” only to remove the disfiguring
growth instantly, leaving no trace, but also
to actually kill the hair roots, without
irritating the skin.
HOW TO HAVE THICK AND PRETTY
HAIR.
“Homg Talents.”
Soaps and artificial shampoos ruin many
beautiful heads of hair. Few people know
that a teaspoonful of good stallax dissolved
in a cup of hot water has a natural' affinity
for the hair and makes the most delightful
shampoo imaginable. It leaves the hair
brilliant, soft and wavy, cleanses the scalp
completely and greatly stimulates the hair
growth. The only drawback is that stallax
seems rather expensive. It comes to the
chemist only in sealed packages which
retail at four shillings. However as this is
sufficient for twenty-five or thirty shampoos,
it really works out very cheaply in the end.
BLACKHEADS, OILY POKES, ETC.
A unique new method instantly removes and
corrects them.
The new sparkling face-bath treatment
rids the. skin of blackheads, oiliness and en-
larged pores almost instantly. It is per-
fectly harmless, pleasant and immediate}:
effective. All yon have to do is to obtair
some tablets of stymol from your chemist,
drop one into a glass of hot water, and
after the resulting effervescence has sub-
sided dab the affected portions -of the face
freely with the liquid. When you dry the
face you will find that the blackheads come
off on the towel, the large pores contract
and efface themselves, and the greasiness is
all gone, leaving the skin smooth, soft
and cool. This treatment should be
repeated a few times at intervals of several
days in order to make sure that the result
shall be permanent.
GREY HAIR UNNECESSARY.
A simple, old-fashioned home-made lotion that will
restore the color of youth.
One need not resort to the very question-
able expedient of hair dye in order not to
have grey hair. The grey hair can easily
be changed back to a natural color in a few
days’ time merely by the application of a
simple, old-fashioned and perfectly harmless
home-made lotion. Procure from your
chemist two ounces of tammalite concentrate
and mix it with three ounces of bay rum.
Apply this to the hair a few times with a
smalf sponge, and you will soon have the
pleasure of seeing your grey hair gradually
darkening to the desired shade. The lotion
is pleasant, not sticky or. greasy, and does
not injure the hair in any way. f 3
AFRAID OF FOOD.
Sufferers from indigestion very often become faddists as regards their food, and find
themselves in time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet. Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes correct acidity bf the stomach, and their antiseptic properties prevent
abnormal fermentation of the food, thus allowing the natural digestive ferments ,to act,
and if taken regularly after meals they so
improve the digestion that a strict diet be-
comes unnecessary. Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes are most useful to those who suffer
from Heartburn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE—Tins 1/6.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.: —•
The Lancet, The Pbactitioneb, etc.
[7
m
"TO!
medical (aim
SON
The Red Page
A Modern Medicevalist
The Great War dealt a severe blow at
Fabian Socialism: it made the official dis-
■ trusted and disliked. The futility, of Marxian
Socialism has just been demonstrated on a
giant scale in .Russia, Forward now Guild
Socialism which, like the other two, has
existed, to an extent, in fact as well as in
theory, all through written history. Arthur
J. Penty, author of A Guilds man's Inter-
pretation of History (George Allen and Un-
rwin, London), has as good a claim as any
man to be the originator of this revival. But
in his latest book he refrains proudly from
mentioning the fact. Guildism is referred to
only in passing. It would have been less
deceptive to the purchaser if he had called
his work, say, “A Churchman’s View of
World History” or “My Reply to ‘The
Martyrdom of Man.’ ” Mr. Penty is one of
those brilliant young English Roman
Catholics of the school to which Belloc and
Chesterton belong, who are unable to keep
the Romanist King Charles’s head out of
their discourse. .With the true Roman
Catholic mind (where it doesn’t happen to
be-a Hibernian mind) go Royalism, a pro-
found respect for authority, a yearning for
the devotional and picturesque past. Penty’s
frankly-expressed sentiments are that by so
much as the world has got away from Roman
Catholicism and the Feudal system, by just
so much has it sacrificed happiness and true
liberty. Of course there is something in it:
there is something in everything. Winwood
Reade notes in. a famous passage how well
the Feudal peasants were treated—some-
times :
The lord was often a true nobleman, the parent
of the peasants’ village, the godfather of their
children, the guardian of their happiness, the arbiter
of their disputes. When there was sickness among
them the ladies of the castle often came down bring-
ing them soups and spiced morsels with their own
white hands; and the castle was the home of the
good ‘ cha plain who told them of the happier world
beyond the grave.
But the baron was oftener a swashbuckling
Hun whose merry men robbed and scourged
the-serfs right vigorously. A bird’s-eye view
of the condition of the English working-man
from the period when the Town appeared
right down to the legalisation of Trade
Unionism affords a horrible picture indeed.
That things got steadily worse from the era y
described in the “Canterbury Tales” to the
beginning of Queen Victoria’s reign had little
‘to do with the decline of Church authority,
but a gr/tat deal to do with the monopoly
of education by the ruling classes. By the
end of the 16th century the cloud of illiteracy
which had enveloped- the nation since the
Wars of the Roses was lifting. But the
grammar schools enlightened only the middle
classes and the lapded proprietors. The poor
battled for what they felt to be their rights
—as in the endless struggles over
“enclosures” —but they had no means of
learning their rights, and they were debarred
from organising if they had known them.
One of the. chief concerns of the propertied
classes was to keep the toiler dog-poor. “The
whole force of our law,” remarks Tliorold
Rogers, “was for nearly three centuries" (1503-
1824) directed towards the solution of this
problem: How much oppression can the
English people endure, how much privation,
misery, starvation, without absolutely des-
troying the labor on which growing rents de-
pended?” The right of combination was the
Moor which opened the way to the com-
parative paradise in which the modern work-
ing-man exists—a paradise of education;
civil rights; and a standard of comfort that
20 centuries of Feudalism would never have
brought him.
On the religious side Penty is even more
Whimsically paradoxical. He finds every-
where a devastating force at work —Roman
Law. The Bull “Unam Sanctum” was
Boniface VIIL’s “last desperate attempt to
save Christian morality from corruption
at the hands of the Roman lawyers.” Roman
law was to blame for Henry Vlll's “plunder-
ing" aristocracy” and the- working-class
misery which resulted from the downfall of
the monastic alms-houses. If Rousseau had
.not “inflamed the imagination of the French
people with impossible dreams” there would
have been a revival of medisevalism —and
presumably no revolution. Roman law. is
“opposed to democratic ideals” ; it “created
Capitalism”; and it is to blame for the late
war. The salvation of mankind lies in a
reversion to Canon law.
What are the drab facts? In the begin-
ning the whole volume of English law was
vested in the Chancellor as “Keeper of the
King’s Conscience.” Much of it was based
on the' pagan Justinian’s code—after the
Code Napoleon the greatest one-man code
ever given, to the world. And more of it
..was based on the principles of the Christian
religion. The defect of all religious enact-
ments is that they are opportunist. They
are devised for a particular century or even
generation. Moses used methods with his
flock which w r ould be abho'rrent to a 20th-
century rabbi. The teachings of the
churches in Africa in one century differ
widely, in detail, from their teachings in
Australia in another century. The In-
quisition was a moral institution in its hey-
day ,; and a little earlier it was generally
considered just and right to burn witches
and sorcerers. It was inevitable that, as- the
centuries passed, the Chancellor should begin
to slough some of his tremendous powers,
and that the first to go should be the
anachronisms. Now, Justinian’s code was
framed, not with one eye coeked on this
world and the other on the next, but for
earthly use alone. Its guiding star was
sordid business. And so while the clerical
practices of dipping suspects and standing
people in white smocks at church doors fell
into abeyance, the sensible old RomaU nfin-
ciples of commerce, so suitable to a trading-
people like the English, were allowed to
Stand. Other features of the Canon law
were removed by enactment. Divorce, for
example, was only recently handed over to
the Probate. Divorce and Admiralty Courts,
and with it went the last pretensions of
ecolesiasticism to control the affairs of the
laity. The Court of Arches, which is all
that survives now of the old ecclesiastical
courts, only judges Anglican clerics.
The benevolent despotism of a communal <
monastery may be a pleasant and admirable
thing for the monks and their dependants;
but the system is not suited, on the grand
scale, to the requirements of a modern
State. Canon law may still do for the
domestic government of monasteries; but
in a world which is fiercely competitive, and
for the most part irreligious, something more
material is needed. With tremendous gravity
Mr. Penty asks nations which have just been
bled white by the crimes and idiocies of
kings to get back to absolutism ; and in an age
when the churches are emptier than at any
time in the history of Christianity he argues
that the Jaw courts should be handed over to
priests and parsons. "And the odd thing is
that he is transparently in earnest.
J. B. D.
Joseph Hergesheimer
The sudden recognition of Joseph Ilerges-
heimer is another instance of the success
that occasionally befalls an artist who makes
the most negligible preparations for popu-
larity. On his own admission he had a hard
and long apprenticeship, contriving stories
in the tesselated English that was to intrigue
the critics of a later day, but never produc-
ing a solitary enchantment to catch the hur-
ried eye of an editor. After this record
Hergesheimer might have reckoned on a
growing circle of publisher’s readers, but at
length he got “The Lay Anthony” into
print, and then began by his colorful writing
and sensuous absorption in a period and its
pose to reach the imagination of the serious
reader. And now he is the most discussed
novelist in England and America. The
Times “Literary Supplement” has discovered
him and found him lovely and mysterious.
Even the exclusive Athenaeum is ready to
endure America a little longer for having
produced him. As for publications in the
United States, the New York Sun and
Times, the Boston Transcript, the Book-
man and many more have devoted columns
to the estimation of his talent. They are
not unanimous about the respective merits
of his books, but they are agreed that he is
an extraordinary combination of Best Seller■
and Best Teller. With all his patient effort
to the contrary, his most artistic stories are
widely read.
Hergesheimer has written of many things,
but he is haunted with visions of crinolines
and cotillons, tasseled canes and swooning
ladies, and sees romance opening with the
salute of a beaver hat. His is the age of the
first gas, the first trains and the birth of
steel, when fobs and sideboards were the
marks of a gentleman and derringers were
drawn to settle disputes. You can read
of those gent'lities and dim transitions in
“The Java Head,” that queer and exotic
narrative of old Salem with the strangely
alluring but inanimate Chinese woman stick-
ing out of the story like an idol in jade.
Occasionally • there' is a stink of opium and
degeneracy to turn the Salem day into a
Limehouse night, but beyond all the, material
and the character development, the dark,
sleek passions and the hum of chanteys, one
feels most the industry of. the author putting
down, in an anguish for externals, every chair
and jar and ornament; until the cast is robbed
of its preponderant interest and tends to
•slink back, after a flash of existence, to the
pictorial significance of figures on a fan. To
him Life seems less than the high light on
mahogany or the pink of a parasol. Essenti-
ally a painter, he uses his pen like a brush,
as much concerned with the contours of a
shoulder as with the heart that beats below.
His women are deluding and self-deluded,
with only their perfect wardrobes to date
them. For his heroes he has given a lick of
varnish to the primal man, but, except in the
instance of “The Three Black Pennys,” he
cannot pump enough folly into them to bring
them flaunting and brave from the shadows.
Nevertheless, in “The Three Black Pennys”
he has drawn a splendid trio and written a
very fine book. This study of a family’s
progress in the “Milestones” manner, but
without the “Milestones” exuberance of de-
tail, assumes from its very first phase a wilful
irony and detachment that give the whole
thing the color and glitter of a gem. The
fundamental idea of a Welsh strain in the
Penny blood producing swart, seething ego-
tists every two or three generations is
handled with a dexterous re-creation of the
epoch to which each type belongs. To pre-
sent the modes of two centuries. and main-
tain the continuity over a hiatus of several
dashing decades is no light thing; but to
make each Penny the mirror of his period,
whilst showing the earlier heroisms of the
family softening to effeminacy and dandyism
under the thrall of the growing Nineteenth
Century, is a piece of uncommon literary-
virtuosity. In his latest book “Linda Con-
don,” he deals with an idealistic romance
with the same assiduous attention to the
details that enchant the painter’s eye.
There is here a stronger revelation of char-
acter. He throws a searchlight on the souls
of Linda and Pleydon, the strange sculptor
who buries his love for the lady in a striking
figure of bronze. Not much less compelling
are the three long short-stories collected
into a book under the title of “Gold and
Iron.” As a short-storyteller his brilliant
craft had been demonstrated in the collection
issued under the title of “The Happy End”,
whereof one, “Flower of Spain,” is a work
of art. In “Gold and Iron” he has the eerie
violence of “Wild Oranges” and the romance
of hard work and adventure in “The Dark
Fleece” and “Tubal Cain.” The last-men-
tioned story reproduces the furnace-lit pic-
tures of “The Three Black Pennys” and
intrudes in Alexander Hulings the fore-
runner of the industrial superman of to-day.
But “The Dark Fleece” is the greatest per-
formance. Jason Burrage, returned from
the Californian diggings to find a refuge in
the arms of Honoria Canderay. who de-
corates every scene with her baffling sweet-
ness, provides a tale that gets you by its
writing if it doesn’t ambush your critical
conscience through your romantic sensi-
bilities. I have vtmndered through the fiction
of several countries, and I can recall few
(Continued on page. 28.)


Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Finishes Saturday Next, August 7
Every man who wants to obtain clothes of the highest quality—
and save money on their price—should make a point of visiting
Anthony Horderns’ Sale ere its close on Saturday next. Reduced
prices are in evidence on every item of a man’s outfit. Country
dwellers should write at once for their requirements while the
saving opportunities last.
SUIT SAVINGS.
Men’s Sac Suits, made in our Workrooms, reliable materials, best trimmings.
COATS.—Two- or three-button Fronts, Centre Seam, with or without Vent, out
VESTS.—Four Pockets, Medium Opening.
TROUSERS.—Side or Cross Pockets, Hip Pocket, Plain or Buff Buttons.
Dark Grey Colonial Tweed Suits, 3to 7. Usual Price ~..\ 60/-
Reduced to 56/6
Dark Fancy Tweed, All-Wool Suits, 3 to 7J. Usual Price 90/-
Reduced to 84/-
Dark Grey and Brown Fancy Tweed Suits, 3to 71. Usual Price 105/-
Reduced to 98/6
Dark Grey and Fancy Check Tweed Suits, 3to 71. Usual Price . 110/-
Reduced to 1007-
Dark Grey Worsted Tweed Suits, 3 to 91. Usual Price 119/6
Reduced to 110/-
Dark Brown and Grey Tweed Suits, 3to 81. Usual Price 126/-
Reduced to 115/*
Dark All-Wool Rough Serge Suits, sto 6. Usual Price 130/-
Reduced to 111/6
%
m
m
.
m
7
m
i
tm
11M1111
m
WftiirS?
tin
- .'7/0
ONY H0«0foS
B,SONS L". O/V
2£t/ l L svoru>
i>SB%
Overcoat Savings.
THE RAGIiAN Step collar, patch pockets, full skirt with
vent, easy slip-on shoulders.
Dark Colonial Tweed, sizes 7, 71, 8-1, 91 only. Usual Price 37/6
Reduced to 32/6
Fancy Tweed, neat designs, sizes 7, 71, 81. Usual Price 50/-
Reduced to , 45/-
Fancy Tweed, neat designs, size 7 only. Usual Price.. 60/-
Reduced to 50/-
F.ancy Tweed, neat designs, 3,5, 6, 7 sizes. Usual' Price 70/-
Reduced to 65/-
Fancy Tweed, neat designs, 3 to 7 sizes. Usual Price 90/-
Reduced to ... 84/-
Dark Irish Tweed, neat designs, 3to 7 sizes. Usual Price 95/-
Reduced to 89/6
Dark Irish Tweed, neat designs, sizes 3 to 7. Usual Price 105/-
111 Reduced to 98/6
PYJAMA SAVINGS.
Colored Flannelette, medium weight—
Usual Price 13/6
Reduced to 12/6
Colored Flannelette, winter weight—
Usual Price 14/6
Reduced to 13/6
Colored Flannelette, winter weight-
Usual Price 18/-
Reduced to 16/6
Colored Flannelette, winter weight—
Usual Price 17/6
Reduced to 15/6
Best Quality Ceylon Flannel, medium weight—
Usual Price 32/6
Reduced to 29/6
"S
HORDERN £ SONS
> LIMITED
V BIXICKFIELD MILL
SYDNEY^Ad
UNDERWEAR SAVINGS.
Undershirts, White, Merino finish, heavy weight,
1-sleeves, 34in. Usual Price 11/-
Reduced to 10/6
Undershirts, White, Merino finish, heavy weight,
1-sleeves, 36in. Usual Price 11/6
Reduced to 11/-
Undershirts, White, Merino finish, heavy weight,
i-sleeves, 40in. Usual Price 12/3
Reduced to 11/9
Undershirts, Natural Cotton and Wool “Raineses,”
1-sleeves. 34 and 36 in. Usual Price. .' 15/-
Reduced to 14/-
IJndershirts, Natural Cotton and Wool, long sleeves,
34in. Usual Price 15/6
Reduced to 14/6
Undershirts. Natural Cotton and Wool, long sleeves,
36in. Usual Price 36/-
Reduced to 15/-


Are You Raising Stock for Profit ?
l
©
<0
To raise stock for profit it is first essential to feed correctly and
economically.
Nourishment and surplus for production is essential.
Fodder deficient in food elements will satisfy hunger, but will
not yield results.
BY RESULTS
m
IS CHEAPER.
All products carry our guarantee, which is your guarantee of Standard Quality.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET ON SCIENTIFIC FEEDING TO STOCK FOODS DEPARTMENT A.
Agents:—Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co., Queen
Street, Brisbane; Messrs. Clarkson, Ltd., Rundle Street, Adelaide; Messrs. Wm. Adam&& Co., Ltd., King Street,
Perth; Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co., Hobart and Launceston; The National Dairy Association of N.Z., Ltd.,
Sussex Chambers, Panama Street, Wellington, N.Z.; Messrs. Johnston & Co., Featherston Street, Wellington, N.Z.
UNSEEB OILMEN
Ofae boy on th e bay
guarantees < quality
jCfffUted
.HEAD OFFICE UG KING ST SYIJSTI^^rks-.Pairamaiia)
UNSEEDOHMEJ^
m
WEGGITT u.°
RftPRAMATTA
'°/Ae Jboy on the bag
guarantees quality


df
For Your Liver
Pinkettes, the new laxative,
give excellent results in cases of bil-
iousness and torpid liver. People
who are unnaturally drowsy and
sleepy, who lack ambition and
energy, are usually victims of their
liver.
Pinkettes have a specific action
on the liver and speedily banish the
feeling of lassitude and weariness.
They are effective without being
drastic and they have none of the
bad effects of strong purgatives.
Pinkettes also regulate the stomach
and liver, correct bad breath, clear
the complexion, and are an ex-
cellent remedy to use ’uring colds
and fevers.
I/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.”
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
A
&
GARTERS
No mefal
can touch you
ASK DISTINCTLY FOE
PARIS GARTERS
Value and Service Guaranteed.
Retailed Everywhere
Indents and Wholesale,
Walter Oathro Pty., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
Makers, A. Stein & Company, Chicago.
BOND’S TRIPLEWEAR HOSE.
Made in Australia.
ft
AN IDEAL HOSE,
combining: wonderful wear with beautiful
appearance.
H K St VHQKIiOCKSt-S’noRRCICKSES HnppnrKSFS'
EHiMit:
aaaaaaagsßßaa
THE. WORLD'S
$0 BEST VALUE
sdf
mm
ngm-aai
CELEBRATED
9.
S
a
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young—hard or soft and
that remedy is A’CORN SILK, which
removes the worst corn in a few days, and the
sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure —it kills them. It is a painless cure—
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
K. W. Bradley, Fitzroy Buildings, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Aberdeen House,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
L. Susman &Co., Merchants, Hobart.
R. H. Maxwell & Co., 18 Howard Street
Perth, W.A. r {
Another New Note in Handbags
supplied by this
ft
35
VANITY CASE.
Its oval shape is both novel and
delightful, and the Australian design
—either Waratah or Kookaburra—
adds to its attractiveness. In the lid
is a large bevelled mirror, and the
case is lined with silk. Its size is
X 4|. Price 357-
Mention XII when ordering.
If you plan a trip, our leather travelling
requisites are worth your inspection. Send for
our illustrated catalogue, which is in prepara-
tion.
We pay postage throughout the Commonwealth.
The AMERICAN BAG STORES Lid.
THE BAG- STORE. ,CORNER.,— XING'-AND PITT STREETS.
STRAND ARCADE, PITT ST. SYDNEY ARCADE. GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
Surgical Appliances of all Kinds
ELASTIC ABDOMINAL BELT.
Denver’s Elastic Abdominal Belt offers a
welcome support in cases of abdominal pro-
trusion. Made of silk elastic, it is soft,
comfortable and serviceable. ' Special Resigns
for both men and women.
HEN the need is for a Sur-
gical Appliance of any kind,
or an Artificial Limb, consult us.
For many years we have special-
ised in these items. We make a
close study of each particular
need and always advise the adop-
tion of what our experience tells
us to be the correct course. Per-
sons who are not physically effi-
cient should be prompted in their
own interest to see what we can
do for them. Call or send us
particulars of your requirement—
our advice costed you nothing.
DENYER BROS
y
For all Surgical Appliances,
281 George St, Sydney
as
g
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
sef
TO
H.M. THE KING
SCRUBBS AMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATION OF INSECT BITES.
Of all Grocers, Chemists, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
gs
Australians on Service Found
That There is
NO BRANDY LIKE COGNAC BRANDY
and NO COGNAC
BRANDY LIKE
’S
The Greatest
Marvel of
the Age.
376
« *
So Simple a Child
, Can Work It.
376
Hand Embroiderer
Embroiders in a day what would take a month
by hand.
Works anything on anything.
From the Finest Georgette to the
Thickest Curtain Material.
Printed instructions with every machine; also free demonstrations
and teaching at Malcolm Buildings, Malcolm Lane, near Bridge
Street, Sydney; and at Room Six, 6th Floor, Stock Exchange
Buildings, Colliris Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVE (WHOLESALE ONLY) :
Eastern Trading Co. Ltd., Malcolm Place, Sydney.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The World-Lover.
Once, long ago, I loved a happy lady.
Or was she happy? Only this I know
That when I left her I met happy people,
Saw sunshine even on the roads of woe,
And found a hundred happy ways to go.
I do not know if she was very lovely.-
But leaving her I chanced on lovely things—
Lamplight along wet streets, new moons, or
tulips,
Fugitive verse quick with imaginings,
A gracious house, a ship, a bluebird’s wings.
I do not know if she was so high-hearted.
And yet I longed, oh, just to fight and die
For any cause that offered ! Fifes seemed
shrilling
The Marseillaise—proud feet went marching
by.
Oh, hilts ahd blades! Oh, banners in the sky!
f do not know if she was very human.
But leaving her I seemed to understand
Serene old men, and little boys with locusts.
Statesmen with dreams and visions for their
land, •
And shy young lovers brushing hand with
hand.
I only know that she could never love me —
Which, being so, I grieve not nor despair.
Dear magic world which hath my lady in it,
I am your lover now because of her,
To serve you, guard you, build you yet more
fair.
n.s.w.
JEAN CURLEWIS.
Sunset Bells.
When we two sit with quiet, evening eyes
And see the old, grey world fade like a
light
Into the misty skies,
Nodding together in the long, grey night,
We shall look back upon the dancing way
Our morning footsteps flew ;
And, smiling at the memories, I shall say:
“How lovely was the early youth we
knew !”
But you will-hush me in that silver peace,
Draw me up closer till our shadows kiss
And the last echoes cease;
Then in the marvel of that holy bliss,
Folded like winds beneath the flowers at
rest
When the long darkness rolls, .
You will reply: “O heart, this hour is best.
For younger bells are pealing home our
souls !”
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
Tribute.
Do you know how the little stars come forth,
Boy acolytes to whom the Priest has given
A lamp to carry, brimmed with sacred oil,
As one by one they mount the stairs of
Heaven
To the cathedral doors, and find within
The silver altar of the Lady Moon?
So came the starlight of your thoughts to
me,
And thus you carried all along my night
The myriad lamps to Love’s cathedral doors.
Do you know how the gentle dew is laid
Like moonstone mysteries upon violets?
How Night’s expectant fingers part the leaves
And Day comes, with his leopards crouching
down
At the dark edges of each garden place,
And sprinkles dew upon the blossoming,
Libation from the dawning’s loving cup,
Ere he lets loose his chariot in the skies
And every river shows the blazing trail
Of golden wheels? Thus came your tender
love,
Laid on my life like dew on violets,
Drawing a sweetness out, and giving it
Unto the world in all I wrote of you.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
To the Year A.D. 2000.
A morn will bow you in with glowing skies
Kissed by the same glad sun that rose
to-day,
But I’ll be dead; I will have passed away
Into the shadows, grown too cold and wise,
But hidden by the clay.
And Youth will go triumphant in the morn,
And hot red lips will pucker up and cling,
And busy life its joys and woes will bring;
But I will sleep, forgotten and forlorn,
In gloom where no birds sing.
Men will be full of their affairs and life,
Hoping and fearing, eager, bright of eye;
Cloud argosies will sail the azure sky,
The earth 'be busy with much love and strife,
Ancf none so calm as I.
There’ll be the murmurous song of trees in
mirth,
Happiness walking where to-day I tread.
Red wine and laughter, kisses and white
bread,
And men will bring their dreams to splendid
birth ;
But I’ll be deaf. . . .blind... .dead !
VICTORIA.
DALE COLLINS.


A
§
///
/X
m
I
K
*t
l l
vs
c*
•<?
c
s* 8
W. B. CHAFFEY Talks to Young Australia about
the Sunraysed Settlements.
AWAY back in the past the founder of the Sunraysed Settle-
» ments, W. B. Chaffey, said that irrigated inland Australia
<)
would offer tremendous opportunities for the young men
coming on. To-day, at the Sunraysed Settlements, hundreds of
young Australians own their own settlements, which produce
the whole of this country’s dried fruits, and, too, are heavily
exporting to America at fine prices. The opportunity offered
to-day is a great one. It is being readily seized, and means that
Australia’s grip on the dried fruit trade of the world will never
be relinquished, but will tighten as the years go on.


The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2112.
Registered at the General Post Office., Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 5, 1920.
Price 9d.
THE SUPPLANTER.
“The A.L.P. has considered new industrial legislation for N. S. Wales, and insists upon the right to strike.”
LABOR; “Here, you get! THIS is my friend.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance* Only.)
For £1 16s. per annum you cam, have The
Bulletin sent regularly to. you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £2 per annum,
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Sx»ecial Notice.
Insufficiently stamped t letters are liable to be
refused.
1 The contents of this paper are copyright by the
pithlishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
'The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the appy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further , The Bulletin desires those
.sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amatenrs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus: and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.4;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Ilolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; International House,
H lierk Street, Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; the Boston Hat Works and News
Co., 109 A Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. —Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; J. Roland Kay Co., 181/9
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Liberty News
Co., Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth
Avenue and 27th Street, New York; Schulte News
Agency, Bryant Park, J/2nd Street and 6th Avenue,
New York City; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago; Golden Gate News Agency,
719 Market Street, Chicago; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. — Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singavore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. — Whitten Bros., Samarai, Kulamadau and
Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a
Newspaper ): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet—otherwise: Boz., l(d.; 8(oz. to 10oz..
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, l/oz., l\d., and
Id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 5, 1920.
THE AMENDED FEDERAL CONSTI-
TUTION OF 1921.
It is now accepted on all sides that the hold-
ing of another Federal Convention, with all
the States represented this time and also
some form of representation for the Terri-
tories, is about due. The business is to
repair the Constitution in the light of an
eventful 20 years’ experience. Away back
in the old Convention days this paper pre-
sented the skeleton and as much of the
flesh as space permitted of a Constitution,
and it now offers its ideas about the changes
that have become necessary :
THE FEDERAL CONSTITUTION OF 1921.
Part II: The Senate.
(1) This body should he composed of Senators for
each State chosen directly by the people using some
form of proportional or preferential or second-ballot
system, but not by the old mechanical device of
“first past the post.’’ Each State should be a single
electorate.
(2) There should be four Senators for each State
and one for each Territory. In view of the sub-
division of existing States this would increase the
size of the august body, but would, by way of com-
pensation, leave no part of the country an absolute
terra incognita to the Upper House.
(3) The term should still be six years, and half
the Senators from States and all the Senators from
Territories should retire every third year.
Part III: The House of Representatives.
(4) No State, including the Free Cities of Sydney
and Melbourne (to be mentioned later), should have
less than three Representatives. The rest should
be allotted on a population basis. Each Territory
should have one Representative, with the right to
speak but not to vote. (As a large extent of Terri-
tory will not be self-supporting, it is proposed to
give it a voice in the general government, but not
in the House which deals specially with money—
other people’s money.)
(5) An attempt should be made to keep the mem-
bership in the neighborhood of 100, but the details
must depend largely on the allotment of popula-
tion among the new States.
(6) The election should be, as in the Senate, by
the proportional or preferential or second-ballot
system.
Part IV: Both Houses.
t?) No person who cannot read and write the
English language should have a vote.
(8) For certain (and fairly numerous) offences,
disfranchisement for a certain number of years after
release, or even for life, should automatically attach
to every sentence of imprisonment, whether the con-
victed person, is let out as a first offender or not.
In some eases it should also go with a fine.
(9) Otherwise there is little apparent need for
alteration.
Part V: Powers op the Parliament.
(10) These additions should be made to the
Federal powers and duties:—
(a) The Commonwealth shall take over all existing
State railways and the work of railway-building,
except that State and private lines may be built
with its consent.
(b) It shall take over all existing State debts.
No new State debts shall be contracted save with
its consent, and they must have a substantial sink-
ing fund attached.
(c) It shall be allowed in taxation matters to
discriminate between States, but only for the pur-
pose of equalising the debt burdens taken over.
(This is essential, otherwise a new State starting
without railways or development might yet have a
heavy load of debt to carry for other States.))
(d) The Commonwealth shall have a veto on State
legislation.
(e) It shall have the power to make itself sole
or partial tax-collector for the States—this as a
measure of economy.
(f) It shall have such control as it chooses to
assume over existing State banks, insurance offices,
public trustee offices and other institutions. (This
will be necessary, as with a process of subdivision
these will often become institutions extending over
several States.)
(g) It shall have the sole power of subdividing
the area of the Commonwealth into States and Ter-
ritories as it sees fit, and shall possess any powers
necessary and incidental to this business. (This
authority was surrendered by the British Govern- 1
ment when the Commonwealth was founded and was
not assumed by the Commonwealth, but left to
the States themselves, which means that there can
be no subdivision unless the ruling clique in and
around the overgrown capital consents, which it has
never done and never will do. The amazing proviso
which leaves no chance of separation save by war and
bloodshed was not the work of the people’s Federal
Convention, but was smuggled in later, along with
the Federal capital disaster, by an unauthorised
committee of State Premiers all now dead.)
(h) By way of an obligation the Commonwealth
shall be pledged to attach a sinking fund to every
debt, whether incurred by itself or taken over from
the States.
Part A r l: The Executive.
(11) The Prime Minister should be a citizen with
the same qualifications as those which attach to
Senators and Representatives, but with the additions
that he must be not younger than 35 years, must be
a born (not naturalised) British citizen and not the
son of naturalised parents, and qualified by at least
15 years’ residence. (Later on, for the long resi-
dence qualification Tiie Bulletin has hopes that Aus-
tralian birth will be substituted.)
(12) He should be elected by the people for a
fixed term.
(13) He should not be a member of either House.
(14) He should appoint his Ministers, all qualified
electors aged not less than 30 years, and born (not
naturalised) citizens, and not the sons of naturalised
citizens.
(15) They should not be allowed to sit in either
House any more than their chief. (This is the
United States plan, and is one of the best political
ideas that Republic has supplied to the world. It
gives an immensely wide choice of Ministers, whereas
now there may be only about 60 to choose from —
a small majority in each House—and not one of
the 60 is elected for his special qualifications to
hold a certain portfolio or any portfolio. It makes
available men who would never wade through the
mud and dust of machine politics. And it gives
Ministers a chance to attend to the public busings,
receiving instructions from Parliament, but hot
spending their highly-paid-for time in the exchange
of recriminations with O’Bally, M.H.R., or Senator
Macßrose.)
Part VII: The Territories, especially
the One Big Territory.
(16) Territories should be created, inasmuch as
1,105,452 square miles of Australia, almost all of it
in the south or non-tropical part, has less than 10
inches of annual rainfall, and some of it is suspected
of having only one inch, and it is never likely to
have more, and there is no Nile flowing through it
as through rainless* Egypt to make rain more or
less unnecessary. (At present this perpetual drought
country is divided among the States, but so unequally
that South Australia, which has only 14,875 square
miles of country with a rainfall of 20 inches or
more per year, staggers under the burden of polic-
ing and gaoling and educating and administering
317,600 square miles of it. Barring the interposi-
tion of miracle, unexpected scientific developments
or most improbable accident, a very great part of
this area must be a permanent pauper, with prac-
tically no population save telegraph and railway
officials, for lines must cross it on the way from one
oasis to another. It is only fit to be a Federal Ter-
ritory, supported in the cheapest possible way by
general contributions. It can’t be equally appor-
tioned among the live States, for some of the new
ones won’t touch on it, and there is little to be
said for leaving it to be run by, say, four State
Governments with the aid of a subsidy. There is
no need for so much Government in one desert. And
for the country’s good name it is well to let the
world know that we have a desert —the biggest
dry desert in the Empire—and are proud of it. That
will be an answer to the irritating tourist from
the U.S.A. who thinks Australia has a Mississippi
down its middle because his country has one and
asks “Why don’t yew slow folks irrigate same as we
dew?”)
(17) there will be other Territories, of course, on
the mainland, mostly in the present N. Territory
and the northern part of Westralia. They will rise
to Statehood when they get population. Also there
will be Papua.
Part VIII: The States (including the
Free Cities).
(18) The States should number, say, a dozen to
begin with—it may be 14, including the Free Cities
of Sydney and Melbourne, and perhaps there will be
other Free Cities later on. Like Hamburg. Bremen
and Lubeck in the German Empire, these places and
a little bit of country surrounding each should stand
apart. (They are huge and commercial, and their
overwhelming method of running the wheat and
sheep and potato and mining interests of the inlands
in the light of their softgoods-importing experience,
gained in York-street and Flinders-lane, is little
good to man or beast.)
(19) The States should be laid out as far as
possible to attach each bit of hinterland to its
natural port. (The Perth and Albany oasis in the
extreme south-west, for instance, should be an iso-
lated State or pair of States. ' The rest would
form a semi-circle, Australia being really a big
atoll with drought in the centre instead of water,
and they would spread from near Spencer’s Gulf
round, the coast to somewhere about the Gulf of
Carpentaria, where the Territories —the fertile ones
with a future —would begin.)
(20) The powers of the States should be such as
the Commonwealth leaves them.
Part IX: The Capital.
(21) The Federal capital should be situated north
of the Tropic of Capricorn, for these reasons:—
(a) It is central, the bulk of Australia with a
rainfall of 15 inches or over being there.
(b) The whole future and the very existence of
White Australia depends on proving to a disbeliev-
ing outside world.—an’outside world in which the
White Australia ideal hasn’t an active friend—that
the white man can live and work and prosper in the
tropics. He can only prove it by going there, and
for some reason or other the only way Australia
ever manages to get a mass of population together
anywhere by planting a capital on the spot. It
is unfortunate, but the fact remains. Australia has
seven capitals, including Canberra, in the, compara-
tively small habitable region south of latitude 27,
where there is no case that needs proving, and not one
north of it, where the Commonwealth’s salvation is at
stake. It has steadily proclaimed that the North is unfit
for even a white politician to live and work in. It
emphasised this when it proposed to fix the Federal
metropolis down south. It attracts population to
its herd of southern capitals in order to empty the
North and mark it and the policy that depends
on it with failure. The North, being stamped as
nigger country, is governed from the cold regions,
the way that India is ruled from England, as a
nigger country should be. Unless this policy is
reversed by the only method we know of, the census
of 1921 will almost certainly be the last for White
Australia. Unless something is done pressure from
the outer world, and especially from the mostly-
colored British Empire, will start Brown Australia
when the figures reveal the monstrous failure.
(c) In any case the Canberra fraud should go,
because the reservation of the capital to N. S. Wales
wasn’t the work of the people’s Convention elected
to make the people’s Constitution. A shameless breach
of faith nullified the N.S.W. people’s acceptance of
the original Constitution in which the capital was
left an open question, and then a self-appointed com-
mittee secured this concession for N.S.W. as a bribe
to withdraw their opposition.
THE FAILURE OF THE STATES.
“We are in times now when public men are
despised, Ministers disregarded, religion neglected
and the country dishonored.” —A. A. Cocks, M.L.A.
(of N. S. Wales).
“Government: The act or fact of governing....
control.”— Webster.
Making all allowances for exaggeration’s
artful aid to rhetoric, there is still a lot of
truth in the lament of Mr. Cocks. By “the
country’.’ he means his own State. It is a
good many years now since N. S. Wales
was governed in any true sense of the term.
It has suffered from a succession of Minis-
tries whose members, whatever their policies
happened to be, had one plank in common
—Office in Peace at any Price. There are
two ways by which a Government may re-
tain place and the emoluments and dis-
tinctions attaching to it—by exercising the
functions of government and by delegating
them. Of late years the Governments of
N. S. Wales have consistently fallen back
on the second method wherever executive
acts threatened to arouse sectional ill-feel-
ing. In the course of a few months the
late Holman Government spent £35,000 on
Royal Commissions; its successors had so
many going the other day. that there was
a shortage of Supreme Court Judges, and
the Equity Bar was vainly ransacked to
supply the deficiency. Royal Commissions
are extremely popular with everyone asso-
ciated with them. And most of all with
Ministers, who transfer to one who is irre-
sponsible the responsibilities which they
themselves are specially paid to carry. The
taxpayers know that they are being taken
down in this connection—that they are being
made to pay twice or more for the one
service because their chosen representatives
are nervous about their billets —and that
is one of the reasons why public men are
despised and Ministers disregarded.
* * * *
The remark of the conservative Cocks
might equally have come from a member
of the 1.W.W., the only difference being
that whereas he was regretful the other
would be exultant. Nearly four centuries
ago an English Chancellor (More) defined
government as “a conspiracy of rich men
to procure their own commodities under
the name and title of the Common Weal.”
The syndicalists are saying the same thing
to-day, though in a different tone of voice;
and time-serving Governments are providing
them with the justification they need. Under
the Tudors and for three centuries after-
wards the rich man had it all his own way.
Both Statute and Common law worked for
his advancement. To-day he has no
privileges over the rest of the community,
and the tendency of the law is to operate
against him rather than in his favor. The
hectoring rdle of the mediaeval baron has
been taken over by organised labor—not
labor; organised labor. The capitalist can
no longer retire behind a drawbridge with
his booty, as in Feudal times: his posses-
sions are there to be shot at by every sort
of legislative weapon. But organised labor
has neither a body to be kicked nor a bank-
ing account to be garnisheed. It is there-
fore above the law. So capital makes the
best of a bad job and pays as required;
the demands of the unions grow and grow :
the State Executives, which under our Con-
stitution control practically all the nation’s
trade and commerce, either do nothing or
pass on the invidious business of taking
action to a deputy; and the unorganised l —
“small man” on the land or in com-
merce, the salariat, the indigent widoyr or
old maid, the pensioner, and the very poor
—are ground between the upper and the
nether millstones in much the same way
as the serfs were in the Dark Ages. There
is only one section which is really satisfied
with this state of affairs, and that is a
section which doesn’t intend it to last,
namely, the revolutionaries. They look on
industrial unrest, combined with weak Gov-
ernments, as a means to the end that they
seek, which is the destruction of democratic
government as we know it.
* * * *.
The revolutionary in Australia does not
possess the analytical type of mind. He
sees that something is wrong, and he be-
comes the slave of phrases which have been
coined under the spell of conditions other
than those that exist here. Our brethren
of revolt are clamoring for the overthrow
of the State, because it is the instrument
by which capitalism exploits the workers,
and they seek the establishment of a Soviet
form of government as the only means by
which the toiler can attain real freedom.
They emit these cries because they were
set up by the moujiks of Russia three years
ago, and regardless of the following facts:
(1) under present conditions it is a certain
type of our worker who is exploiting Capi-
talism. and doing it to such purpose that
the bird of Finance is becoming exceedingly
shy of the game; (2) the State Govern-
ments are already operating, largely, on
Soviet lines; and (3) the logical and inevit-
able end of Sovietism is not freedom but
autocracy. When Sovietism, or government
by Commission, began in Russia the poor
expected great things. Notably little work
and plenty to eat. These, however, are
among the boons which no legislation can
provide. In the attempt to please all sec-
tions, the Russian Commissions went within
an ace of condemning the nation to death by
starvation. Owing to hundreds of factories
closing down altogether, while many others
produced only 10 or 15 per cent, of their
pre-war output, the transport system failed.
At the commencement of the Lenin regime
50 locomotives were being built annually
where 1000 was the minimum requirement.
The railway system fell into such disrepair
that £300,000,000 was recently suggested bv
the Council of Economy as the figure needed
to get it back to normal. Lenin and his
colleagues suddenly swept the foolery of the
visionaries to one side. The 12-hour day
was instituted, together with compulsory
industrial and military service, since when
the Bolshevik workshops appear to have
done almost as well as the Bolshevik armies.
In short, Freedom has been slain that the
nation might live.
* * ♦ *
Australia wants' neither the sloppy imprac-
ticableness of Sovietism nor the iron restric-
tions which represent reaction against a
policy of pandering to sections. It wants
stable government by Ministers who are
neither “despised” nor “disregarded.” In
N. S. Wales the other day, when Ministers
were considering the question of raising the
salaries of members of the State Assembly
to £750 per annum, it was the A.L.P. propa-
ganda committee which decided that they
might do it. Other A.L.P. committees decide
quite a lot of problems for the present
N.S.W. Government, and if the Storey
Ministry went out to-morrow the position
would not be very much bettered. It would
mean that other irresponsible bodies would
to a great extent perform the same functions
for their successors. It is a matter partly
of course of the party-government system
distorted to serve base ends. But there is
another factor. The plain truth is that the
States, as sovereign entities, are anomalies.
They have outlived their usefulness, and
everyone associated with their administra-
tion knows it. They exist now not for the
benefit of the people who are taxed to keep-
them in being, but in order to provide liveli-
hoods for an army of office-men. From their
ridiculous Governors, down through their
Brummagem Houses of Lords and Commons,
they stand for a collection of vast make-
believes. This is chiefly the reason why
State Governors a nd Governments alike
incline more and more to the ways and
manners of theatricals who are ' doubt-
ful of the public reception < which is
before them. If they did no worse
than mulct the taxpayers of large
sums of money year by year it would not
matter so much; but in fact their inepti-
tudes and extravagances provide a never-
failing stock of material for those who are
hostile to any form of Constitutional Gov-
ernment whatever. The majority of Aus-
tralians who are neither Imperialistic
reactionaries nor advocates of anarchy—a
big majority of the inhabitants of the Com-
monwealth —would gladly see the States
with their archaic and costly paraphernalia
wiped clean out. But a change which in
Britain could be effected out of hand by the
national Parliament is a much longer and
more delicate affair under our Constitution.
One of our rare chances to act will shortly
present itself. . The instrument which the
country plainly needs is a strong Central
Government, unhandicanped by that harass-
ing feeling of superfluity which so weakens
most of the State administrations, and
therefore independent of cliques. Working
under it would be a. number of small States
holding local powers expressly granted by
Statute, as in Canada under the Dominion
Act (1867) ; and no other powers. One of
the most obvious of present-day facts is that
the States, with their vast industrial and
other powers—mostly unexercised for lack
of the requisite nerve —are redundant, if not
malignant growths; and one of the first
questions the coming Convention will have
to consider is the best means of cutting
them out.
THE WALLOPING OF A JOSS.
Australia has been hearing a lot about
Magna Charta from high-minded patriots
like John Wren. Amidst a tumult of dis-
tempered rhetoric Magna Charta was inter-
posed b.etween the alien and the Government
in the hope of preventing the latter from
exercising its right to deport disaffected
foreigners—a right vested in, and in peril-
ous times enforced by, every. Government on
earth —and when Magna Charta (and
Habeas Corpus) failed to operate, Colling-
wood rules were resorted to, with a line
result. In the loud howls of wrath that
went up from Wren and his Labor lackeys
when the Khyber quitted Fremantle with
the deportee on board, the public was given
to understand that it wasn’t so much the
departure of Jjerger they were aggrieved
about as the horrible outrage committed
upon Magna Charta. This reverence for
Magna Charta is rather wonderful, consider-
ing the contempt shown for the same instru-
ment, by much the same crowd, in the affair
of the I.W.W. prisoners. The I.W.W.
prisoners might have been tried, and sum-
marily sentenced, by a military court, for
short of actually taking up arms they were
doing their utmost to cripple the nation
while it was fighting for its life. But they
were given the benefits of Magna Charta and •
arraigned before a jury of their peers. They
were found guilty and sentenced to terms of
imprisonment—all in accordance with
Magna Charta. The evidence, however, re-
vealed that they were bitter and dangerous
enemies of Australia, and in Australia that
is a safe passport to the favor of pseudo-
democrats of the long-eared sort. Australia
is the only country in the world in which
malevolent enemies of the nation—whether
home-grown or foreign-born doesn’t matter
in the least —are sure of a maudlin sym-
pathy.
**' * *
Straightway there began a campaign for
the suspension of Magna Charta in the
prisoners’ interest. The people behind the
agitation didn’t put it that way, but that
was the effect of it, and the Holman Gov-
ernment so far surrendered to their clamor


as to commission Justice Street to see if
there was good reason to disturb the verdict.
He found no justification for interfering
with either the verdict or the sentences,
which ranged from five years to 15.
But the friends of the prisoners still con-
sidered that they had had too much Magna
Charta. They extracted a promise from
the N. S. Wales Labor party—all great
Magna Charta men—that whenever it got
the opportunity it would appoint another
Royal Commission, and so when John
Storey came into office he searched all over
Australia for a. suitable man. He found
one in Justice Ewing of Tasmania, who had
just completed an inquiry into the affairs of
the Northern Territory and whose report
had incidentally extorted an angry protest
from the barristers engaged in the case
that it was against the weight of evidence,
and that large masses of evidence hadn’t
been considered at all. Justice Ewing of
Tasmania sat down in Sydney with a copy
of Justice Street’s conclusions in front of
him, and looked as wise as a man could be
reasonably expected to look under the cir-
cumstances. He jotted down a volume of
evidence which, according to his own admis-
sion, included “statements that would
not be admissible before a jury,” and
presumably he allowed himself to be
influenced thereby. He lacked the advantage
that the jury had enjoyed of observing the
demeanor of witnesses when the circum-
stances of the case were recent and could
be reconstructed without difficulty; more-
over some of those who gave evidence at the
trial were absent from the inquiry (one of
them had died in the meantime) ; and there
were other and manifest drawbacks incident
to the lapse of four years. But with engag-
ing self-confidence Justice Ewing affirms
that the jury was wrong. He declares, by
implication, that Justice Pring, who put
the case to the jury, was wrong, too, and
that Justice Street was also wrong. His
finding, in substance, is that six of the 12
prisoners were unjustly convicted, that five
were guilty of minor offences and should be
released forthwith, having been sufficiently
punished, and that the twelfth man, Reeve,
deserved both his conviction and his 10
years’ imprisonment, 10 years, in Mr.
Ewing’s judgment, being not too severe a
puishment for “such a terrible crime.”
Reeve, it appears, was engaged in a con-
spiracy “with Morgan and others” to com-
mit arson. Morgan wasn’t one of the 12
men indicted, and Mr. Ewing doesn’t men-
tion who the “others” were; in his hurry to
get back to Tasmania the point appears to
have eluded him. In effect he states that a
conspiracy to commit arson existed, that
Reeve was a party to it, and that none of
his 11 companions were, and this is where
one is apt to get perplexed in following the
workings of Justice Ewing’s mind, for
Reeve didn’t conspire with himself. Reeve
is the weakest link in the chain of Justice
Ewing’s conclusions, and a chain is no
stronger than its weakest link. There will
have to be another Royal Commission on
the case of Reeve.
* * * *
But the innocence or guilt of the 12
prisoners is not the most important feature
of a case that has become a weariness of the
flesh. What is more conspicuous is the jolt
that Magna Charta has received from its
alleged friends. Trial by jury is a funda-
mental of Magna Charta, and the champions
of Magna Charta have spat on it and set
it aside. They have called into existence a
Court of Criminal Appeal that doesn’t con-
cern itself with the rules of evidence. It has
been shown that if you make a political agi-
tation of a criminal case you can get vote-
hunting Governments to sweep aside trial
by jury and the safeguards for which it
stands. If you yell loud and long enough the
vote-hunting Government will appoint a
Royal Commission “to go into the matter,”
and if one Royal Commission fails to
answer expectations another can be got.
And in the end you create the atmosphere
and frame of mind in which men find it
easy to believe what they are wanted to
believe. Then the jury’s verdict is picked
to pieces, the vote-hunting Government vir-
tuously remarks that it always suspected .
there was something wrong, and the pris-
oners are liberated amidst loud applause.
And the old belief that law exists for the
convenience of a privileged aristocracy— not
a feudal baronage, in this case, but organ-
ised labor —gets a new advertisement.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Whitley Councils.
The chief weakness of the Conciliation and
Arbitration system which Australia imported
from Maoriland 20 years ago was that the
parties could only come together as litigants.
They had felt the joy of battle, and brave
words had been uttered in clubs on the one
hand and in pubs on the other, before a
Judge got a chance to ask both sides to be
reasonable. W. M. Hughes’s Industrial
Peace Bill is designed primarily to catch
the country’s disputes young; for prefer-
ence, before they have come to life at all.
Under the unificatory system of Britain,
where the new scheme was evolved, it is
possible to apply Whitleyism or any other
palliative to all the nation’s industries. Aus-
tralia suffers from the trouble which handi-
capped the British and French armies dur-
ing most of the war; that is, divided con-
trol. The decision given a dozen years ago
in Wybrow’s case still stands, and with
section 51 unamended the National Parlia-
ment can legislate only for intej-State dis-
putes. As Justice Higgins remarked bit-
terly the other day, the unions can actually
choose in practice which of the two “rival
shops” they will go* to for their awards—
the Federal or the State. This was in refer-
ence to the A.W.U., which, having got a
Federal award dealing with hours and wages,
went to a State Court —that of Queensland
—with the idea of doing better. So the
Hughes measure begins with a very obvious
handicap, and one which only the High
Court or a referendum can remove. In the
industries where the scheme can legally
operate it must do good. At present there
is only one jurisdiction which is so con-
gested as arbitration, and that is divorce.
The Federal Court is already behind its
work to the extent of 42 cases, and the
natural tendency is for things to grow worse.
Some effects of this delay are to bring the
Court into contempt, however undeserved;
to cause irritation, more especially amongst
the employees; and so to produce strikes.
Wherever the Councils can be brought into
being there will anyhow be no delay. One
of their jobs will be to look out for trouble
and provide against it while it is yet in
the distance ; and when the moment arrives
for discussion —well, at the worst there will
be immediate discussion. This human
arrangement under which the opposing inter-
ests meet as man to man for an unofficial
consideration of each other’s views has
proved wonderfully successful in averting
strife in British industries. It needs
no better advertisement, from the point of
view of well-dispositioned employers and
employees, than the fact that it is regarded
with sour disapproval by the agitators at
both ends of the industrial ladder. Of course
the title of the new bill is a misnomer. It
will not produce industrial peace. Nothing
will so long as man remains ambitious. But
it should do a lot to remove that sort of
unrest which is merely factiousness. Arbi-
tration gave the agitator for agitation’s sake
his opportunity. The idea of this measure
is to provide the nation’s industries with so
much conciliation that there will be no need
for arbitration. But always with the reser-
vation that under the Constitution many
of them will be debarred from participating
in it at all.
A Sane Immigration Policy.
Politicians may be divided into two classes
—those who say in a general way that Aus-
tralia needs immigrants and those who say
in a general way that it doesn’t; at least,
that it doesn’t till something impossible
happens. The first class is divided into many
sections, most of them barking up the wrong
tree; the second is a coherent and wrong-
headed body which speaks practically with
one voice. A rather prominent politician
defined \ its attitude the other day for the
manyth time :—•
The first thing to do in any country which wants
to attract immigrants is to absorb its unemployed;
that is, to create a state of affairs where every bona-
fide applicant for work will be able to obtain work,
and so to throw open the lands of the country that
every suitable applicant for land will be able to
obtain ,a block of sufficient area and productivity
to enable him to settle permanently on it and secure
a good living....To invite people to come here to
join the land-seekers or the unemployed is like
asking a person to your home to stay when you
have neither a bed for him to lie on nor food to
give him.
That sort of talk, based on the assumption
that immigrants must be either peasants or
pick-and-shovellers of the familiar unem-
ployed type, has blocked progress for years,
and it is time that a sane immigration party
was formed. Australia at present doesn’t
require agricultural strangers of the British
wheat-and-potato variety, though it badly
wants white men who are experts in coffee
and cotton and the like. It is spending
from £l2OO to £2500 of loan-money per
settler to dump down people who at least
have the advantage of knowing the climate.
Yet, through the lack - of prosperous little
industrial towns to supply markets, and the
generally-unreasonable distance to each
State’s one big commercial city, the percen-
tage of failures is likely to be enormous. In
fac(:, the failures are happening already. To
experiment with strangers, reared in cold
and slush and accustomed to have a sizable
town at ' everybody’s door, is infinitely
more risky. As for mere laborers,
Australia doesn’t need them—yet. The
size of the unskilled unemployed depu-
tations that wait on Minister Mcßally
demanding almost with threats immediate
work on the loan line to Ballyruin is even now
unwieldy. But the opening for white skilled
workers is practically unlimited, and there
is room for a strenuous Protectionist Immi-
gration League to prospect for them. As
an illustration, a hero or visionary or some-
body had an idea some time ago that carpets
might be manufactured in Victoria, and he
instituted preliminary inquiries for workers.
Four were heard of who had once worked in
carpet factories elsewhere, but they weren’t
high-class experts; if they had been they
might have stuck at the business and be-
come factory-owners themselves. Their
knowledge was antiquated and rusty through
long employment in other pursuits,’ and they
had long since abandoned serious interest
in carpets. If capable men are not encour-
aged to come here until the last unskilled
constituent of the last Labor politician has
been provided with a pick-and-shovel loan
job that will keep him permanently off the
unemployed list, and until the last person
who would like to experiment on a block
of land with liberal Government assistance
is “settled” and has “secured a good living,”
it is fairly certain that Australia will go
on paying the foreign profiteer for its car-
pets for another few centuries; also for
its cottons and silks and much of its
machinery and quite a herd of things. The
making of such goods can’t be learned by
a correspondence course, and to develop the
arts locally by instinct is too slow a process.
The real immigration question among those
who recognise that this country needs more
population to garrison it than it can grow
in time has always been obscured by the
clatter of fossils who talk the jargon of 50
years ago about the urgency of getting the.
wheat-and-spud Hodge from England. That
talk was fairly reasonable 50 years ago when
cheap land within walking distance of what
is now a city was crying out for Hodge,
but it is out of date now.
«
Hospital Reform.
Another practitioner discusses the hospital
of the future :
The scheme of hospital reform outlined by a prac-
titioner (B. 22/7/’2O) as having been adopted by
the Medical Council of the B.M.A. in Maoriland has
much to recommend it, and although the Medical
Journal of Australia looks with a cold eye on
some of the suggested reforms, and preserves an
ominous silence with regard to the abolition of
honorary staffs in public hospitals, and is careful to
condemn the proposal to establish rooms and wards
for paying patients within the grounds of public
hospitals, these views are not likely to weigh over-
much with current medical opinion in Maoriland.
The B.M.A. Council there will very probably hammer
away at the scheme until the Health Minister sees
fit to establish things in accordance with the desires
of the profession.
But the Maoriland proposals have mainly to do
with the pockets and material comfort of the attend-
ing doctors, and leave out to a great extent what
should be the first consideration, viz., the necessity
for obtaining the very best medical service for the
sick poor. Can we say that this is being done in
Australia or Maoriland?
Of great interest to us in this connection is the
scheme that was launched in the U.S.A. and Canada
in 1913, and has achieved a wonderful triumph,
thanks to the great organising power of the American
College of Surgeons, numbering 4000 members. The
scheme is called by the rather clumsy name of “hos-
pital standardisation.” After evolving a “minimum
standard,” leading members of the College visited
most of the 7000 hospitals in North America, made
a survey and admitted to a union those that fulfilled
the conditions laid down, while those that failed
were stimulated to brush up their work with a view
to subsequent admission.
In some Australian hospitals clinical work is con-
ducted in a loose fashion; there is no check on a
surgeon or physician except his own conscience, and
sometimes that is rather elastic. The honorary
doctor is responsible to himself alone, and if he
comes a crash the tragedy is only known to his
assistant and the nurse. Under the American
scheme the tragedy would soon be blazoned abroad,
and not only would be discussed by the operator’s
colleagues, but would in due time reach the trustees,
who might want to ask inconvenient questions.
Other points include consultations with colleagues,
and the initiation of monthly meetings of the whole
staff, where everything of importance that has
occurred is gone into with minute detail. Opera-
tions, results, whether good or bad; infections, if
curable why not cured, and if incurable the reasons
for the decision —these things are gone over at the
table and the operator is tried by a jury of his
peers keen to point out mistakes in diagnosis, which,
of course, the surgeon could have avoided in most
cases by getting colleagues to share the responsi-
bility. The hospitals that have the most consulta-
tions show the best results every time. Gradually
the adventurous surgeon who plunges blindly into
operative surgery is suppressed. The round-table
post-mortem gets rid of this pest. When a case
of infection breaks out it is nearly always traced to
its source, and when deaths occur the result of the
post-mortem (if obtained) is discussed at the table.
The war opened the eyes of the lay world (and
some of the professional world, too) to the quality
of the profession in the U.S.A.; and this scheme of
hospital organisation very well illustrates the
methods by which that quality has been secured.
The Stop-Work Protest.
There is a sad lack of originality and
commonsense about these resolutions to dis-
continue work by way df protest against
something. The latest comes from S. Aus.
where they had an execution a week or two
ago, following upon a particularly heartless,
calculated, wholesale murder of a wife and
young children. The Building Trades’ Union
met and resolved :
That a general stop-work holiday be called for
any day on which an execution takes place, as a
protest against capital punishment.
Of course the abstract question of capital
punishment has nothing to do with the mem-
bers of the building trade as such, other
than the gallows-maker. It is—in theory at
any rate —a purely voluntary, high-souled
resolution. But they know how it will work
out in practice, so they frankly call their
project a “stop-work holiday.” This will
probably mean that, if it isn’t forgotten or
merged in the throes of a bigger stop-work
enterprise, Bill Chips and Joe Mort will
some day leave their jobs and go to the pic-
tures, make a round of the pubs, or at the
best hang about the house, getting in the way
of the missus and her household work, and
lending a touch of asperity to her tongue
when the kids innocently ask. “What’s
father stopping home to-day for?” since the
harassed woman will have no answer but
“Gawd knows. Someone bein’ strangled, I
suppose. He must have his pleasure. Go on
with your tea.” Presumably the idea of the
Builders’ Union is to draw public attention
to the objection of its members to a barbaric
method of punishment. But Public Atten-
tion has long since been bored to distraction
by the futile stop-work declaration. He has
too often seen it invoked for petty reasons—
a reprimand by the foreman to the boy, or a
difference between the unionists themselves.
Therefore protests of this sort on abstract
questions like the scarcity of houses, the
high cost of living and capital punishment
leave him cold or merely angry. Public
Attention is much more interested in get-
ting his bread delivered fresh, or his half-
built house completed, and a lot of foolish
builders don’t win his sympathy by stopping
work because they have a different opinion
from others on a question of penology. They
only manage to make bread staler, living
dearer and houses scarcer. If, nevertheless,
the Builders’ Union feels that it must do
something, a much more effective appeal to
the public could easily be devised. For
instance, some member might submit the
following resolution to the next meeting:—
That by way of protest against capital punish-
ment the members of this Union agree on the
occasion of the next execution to erect expeditiously
a new dwelling-house in their spare time, after
usual working hours. Such house shall be called
“No Gallows Cottage” or “Non-scrag Villa,” and
be let rent free to the widow and family of the
executed man or those of his victim as may be
the more deserving.
Thus would remain a permanent and digni-
fied record of their protest, and the spectacle
of builders working extra by way of mark-
ing their disapproval would make history
and influence the course of social enlighten-
ment in a way that no mere day’s idling
ever will.
♦
Industrialism B.C.
The Argus made a remarkable assertion
last week
Civis Romanus sum was a proud boast in days
of 01d.... But in those far-off days the strike leader
was not known. Had he suddenly arisen he would
not have lasted five minutes, for the law would have
destroyed him.
Europe’s first recorded strike occurred in
Rome nearly three centuries before Christ.
It was caused by the land monopolists of
the period barring the poor from the soil.
The latter abandoned Rome and .took to
the forests, and were only enticed back by
the offer of 10 acres of cultivable land per
family. The end of the Punic Wars pro-
duced the same social reactions as the war
which has just ended —as, for that matter,
all great wars have produced. Soldiers who
had grown accustomed to social intercourse
and excitement flocked to the cities; male-
factors excused their misdeeds by posturing
as ex-soldiers; a wave of crime spread over
the country. Industrial unrest and strikes
followed. Workers’ revolts are thus num-
bered by the hundred throughout Roman his-
tory, and what we call Bolshevism (that is
to say, civil war between the proletariat
and the militarists) made its appearance
many years before the original Spartacists.
(Spartacus, incidentally, was a strike-leader
who lasted a good deal longer than five
minutes.) What mainly produced the indus-
trial upheavals which distracted Rome until
palliatives began to be provided in the
Augustan era? Oddly enough, some of those
very manifestations of which the Argus is
a warm upholder to-day. Chief amongst
them was the capitalist who regarded the
empire’s successful wars as a means of get-
ting rich quickly at the expense, not only
of the vanquished, but of those who had
done thfe vanquishing. The jobless returned
soldier was one of the commonest features
of ancient Rome, for the good old reason
that the commonest sort of capitalist was
the foreign trader. Gibbon does not
actually state in his “Decline and Fall” that
Rome collapsed for the want of a Protective
tariff. But there are passages which sug-
gest it. The miserable crew who flocked to
Rome from the ends of the earth, who had to
be kept quiet with “bread and circuses,” for
whom work had to be found on jobs of the
sand-shifting variety, who as traders
swindled one another, and in time half the
world —these might have been exchanged for
sturdy yeomen and artisans if the national
policy had been to manufacture goods for
the barbarians, who ultimately overthrew
the empire, instead of taking tribute from
them. There must always be strikes and
unrest, as there must always be wars. But
the dangers of both may be minimised. Not,
however, on the Argus lines, which may be
stated broadly as a policy of buttressing the
extremist employer and offering dead-end
jobs to the workers. That policy was
employed with fatal results in Rome 2000
years ago.
Zion Sends Round the Hat.
Israel Cohen, “emissary of the Zionist
movement,” is spending two months in Aus-
tralia explaining to the Hebrews of the Com-
monwealth “the rehabilitation of Palestine
by the Jews.” In plain English, collecting
money for the cause. And he is quite likely
to get a lot. There is a pretty common
type of patriot who is ready to do almost
anything for his native land but live in it.
The classic example, hitherto, has been the
Irishman. All over the world the Irish
have sentimentalised about the “ould sod,”
and bewailed its wrongs, and subscribed
money for movements on behalf of Irish
freedom. Latterly they have even been
going to the length of learning Gaelic, and
the other day a Sydney suburban draper left
a considerable legacy for the encouragement
of the study of this archaic and unprofitable
language. Yet the persistence with which
the Irish patriot stays away from Ireland
remains among the most remarkable of the
world’s phenomena. It is at this moment
one of the richest countries for its size in
the world: it should carry a population of
25,000,000 without much difficulty. But
it is unlikely that there are 5,000,000 people
there: at the last census there were only
4,390,219. This as against 15,000,000 Irish
in America, about a million and a half in
Australia, and further millions in Canada.
Africa and England. The Jew has not yet
been offered a fair chance to demonstrate
which variety of nationalist he is—the ab-
sentee Australian type, who blithers about
the virtues of the Commonwealth in London,
or the Anglo-Indian type, whose chief aim
in life is to get back to Britain. But it will
be a surprise if he turns out to be any
different from the Hibernian whom we have
had with us for so long. things
may give rise to the emotion of national
patriotism. It may be fmide in a country’s
visible strength, or in its wealth, or in its
beauty, or in its splendid traditions, or in
all of them. Test on these lines the flea-
bitten stretch of insanitary desert, remote
from modern trade routes and eternally
menaced by savages, on which the New
Jerusalem is to be reared, and it becomes
evident that the Jews have a big job ahead
of them if they are to work up any sort of
enthusiasm about Palestine. And why
should they—in Australia? If a Jew re-
gards himself as a Palestine national, there
is only one right and logical thing to do,
and that is to enlist in its army of develop-
ment in person, and not pay someone else to
do the unpleasant work. But if he is an
Australian, then his duty is here and his
money should remain here too. This country
has done its bit, and a shade over, in helping
to remove Palestine from Ottoman control*
It now badly needs every farthing it has in
order to pay its war debts. There is some-
thing very exasperating in the spectacle of
hard Australian cash, which might be spent
on the creation of new industries and the
attraction of more inhabitants, being poured
into countries such as Palestine and Ireland,
which the donors don’t consider good enough
to inhabit.
Fraternising with V.D.
“Gunner”:. A Macquarie-street doctor says
in The Bulletin (29/7/’2O) of syphilis:—
We must be careful not to allow ourselves to be
obsessed with one evil out of many in the world
We must not expect too much or let ourselves get
fanatical... .Probably if we could abolish alcohol
we should find it possible to get rid of syphilis.
In the first place, it is impossible to
abolish alcohol. Nature would still go on
manufacturing it even in the incredible
event of mankind agreeing to desist from
doing so. -And, anyhow, has alcohol the
effect on the incidence of A’.D. that the
prohibitionists allege? Ninety-five per cent,
of the inhabitants of the Cairo Wazzir were
teetotallers, their favorite beverages being
coffee and lemonade. M.O.’s of experience
assured me that the amount of V.D. ir.
the place was appalling. I left Australia,


7a
vr
ftalaj
he Centre
v > 5
w\m
<Cfie
“Jtfusiralia"
Wfnter Garden
m
r Cf& “ s*lusfra.fi <sl
9 9
The Premier Hotel of Australia. SYDNEY.
New Tariff—Room Only Rates.
All meals served a la carte.
Suites and Rooms with private bath.
Automatic Telephones in every room.
Stenographer and Private Office for use of Guests.
Prompt attention given to communications addressed
The Manager.
for the second time, on a drunkless trans-
port, and when we reached Capetown every
bar was closed. Not a man returned to the
ship under the influence of liquor, yet a large
number subsequently developed Y.D. There
is a specialist in Sydney who was in charge
of the Bulford (Salisbury Plain) Hospital.
The sufferers there were required to All in
cards indicating amongst other things the
source of their infection. The C.O. of the
place informed me that over 75 per cent, of
the men ascribed their affliction to
“amateurs.” Throughout the war the bane of
the military authorities in England w T as the
apparently respectable girl to whom the
soldier had been presented in a thoroughly
respectable manner. Of course, it is un-
desirable to become obsessed with an idea,
or to be fanatical about things—in a sense.
Yet it is the fanatics and the obsessionists
who get reforms pushed through. To talk
soothingly about syphilis killing “compara-
tively few” is beside the point when it is recog-
nised as bringing a fate worse than death
upon thousands. And to speculate about the
possibility of diminishing it by exterminating
alcohol, or giving warning lectures, or pro-
viding cheap amusements, club-houses and
recreation halls—all such well-worn devices
simply amount to begging the question.
During the war one of the dangers which
G.H.Q. had to cope with was the tendency
of some of the men to fraternise with the-
enemy. Y.D. is as much an enemy as the
Germans were, and some of its best friends
are those who pretend to sit in cold judg-
ment and decide that “it isn’t such a bad
sort, after all,” that it has been “greatly
maligned,” and that kind and gentle treat-
ment is perhaps as good a policy as any in
regard to it.
John Fihelly—lmperialist.
Perhaps it was right for John Fihelly, of
Queensland, to dissemble bis love for England
by referring to that country as “the home
of cant, humbug and hypocrisy,” and ex-
pressing a fervent admiration for the Dublin
rebels. It is also conceivable, although the
imagination reels under the strain, that when
John Fihelly travelled to the Perth Labor
Conference in 191 S, and helped to shape a
resolution demanding peace on white-flag
principles, with an unwhipped enemy then
40 miles from Paris, he was trying to do the
Empire a good turn. Even so, the follow-
ing remarks of John Fihelly at a State
banquet to the Prince in Brisbane on July
29 are a trifle bewildering:—
The Acting Premier gave the toast of “The King,”
which was loyally honored, and of “The Prince,”
saying that his Royal Highness had endeared him-
self to all with whom he came in contact. “Outside
of his princely position,” said Mr. Fihelly, “he
is a man of many parts. There is not a man or
woman from the border to the capital who has not
literally taken his Royal Highness to his heart.
He is a man who is well fitted and equipped to
occupy the place so capably held by his father. The
traditions of our race and of his race will live
and be inspired by him. He has travelled the seven
seas in ships. His father’s ships practically own
those seas. We are only an outpost of the Empire,
but we are a very loyal one. As we in Australia,
without asking the reason why, went unhesitatingly
to light the battles of the mother country when
she was in danger, I want to ask the Prince to
take back a message to the home folk. Tell them,
sir, in Queensland, in Australia, we have the makings
of a great nation, so that, without asking the
reason why, they should help us to make our
country a good one.”
The loyal rapture of John Fihelly is
touching and beautiful, but, like the same
gentleman’s war attitude, it is liable to be
misunderstood. There are not wanting en-
vious persons who basely associate it with
the Queensland Government’s application in
London for a £9,000,000 loan. It is pointed
out by these malevolent individuals that
when London looked frigidly at Premier
Theodore’s upended hat and made un-
pleasant references to repudiation and con-
fiscation, that rejected but still hopeful men-
dicant declared that his utterances and those
of his party had been strangely misjudged,
and that the British capitalist had no stur-
dier supporter than himself. It is suggested
that Fihelly’s equally sudden change of
front was inspired by the same heed. These
evil-minded critics of a necessitous Govern-
ment go further, and assert that, having
baited Cohen, their pawnbroker, into a con-
dition of cold ferocity-—having questioned
his legitimacy, aspersed his morals, injured
his self-esteem and shaken his confidence in
every possible way—the crowd in office in
Queensland is employing every resource and
pretence to convince Cohen, being in want
of his money, that it was only its playful
humor and that it loved him all the time.
It is insinuated that the Prince is being
roped in for this sordid purpose, and there
are complaints that it is playing it low-
down on an unsuspecting Heir-Apparent to
suggest that he should tout for Queensland
in the. London money market —that he should
use his influence with a reluctant financier
on behalf of an importunate spendthrift.
But it is the fate of all great men to be mis-
represented.
The I.W.W. Prisoners and the Case for
Judge Ewing.
The observations and conclusions of one who
has had to professionally follow the thing
all through:—
There are two ways of looking at the report made
by Justice Ewing, of Tasmania, opening N. S. Wales
gaol doors to 10 out of the 12 I.W.vV. men sen-
tenced by Justice Pring at Darlinghurst four years
ago. Either it is an outrage upon Law and is an
affront to trial by jury, or it represents a great
vindication of Justice. To anyone who believes
that the trial of these men was an impartial one
at the hands of an unprejudiced jury in possession
of all the facts essential to a just finding, then
Eaving’s inquiry, like that of Street’s before him,
cannot be. made appear anything but an unholy
tampering with the foundations of our criminal law.
But what of those who have all along suspected
that the trial was in some respects a mockery; who
believed that these men were tried in an atmo-
sphere created for the occasion; who, the day
after the arrests were made knew, by the placards
which suddenly decorated Sydney’s hoardings and
the eruption of black-type headings in the news-
papers, that if there were any innocent they were
already doomed?
The whole thing turns on the trial before Justice
Pring. Recall the circumstances. The Conscription
wrangle in full blast; the War Precautions Act
being administered with all the autocratic severity
against which The Bulletin roared in protest;
Hughes filling the air with denunciation of the
I.W.W. Then the order for the suppression of the
1.W.W., the descent of the police on the premises,
the allegations about the discovery of fire “dope,”
the quick linking up in the newspapers of this
GUESSWORK FOR GASWORKERS.
stuff with fires weeks earlier, the every-day asser-
tion that the blazes were part of a sabotage cam-
paign to secure the release from prison of Tom
Barker, who actually had been out of gaol for
a month. Every man arrested was tried and con-
victed in the public mind eight hours after arrest.
And, while they were waiting trial by jury, the
creation of more “atmosphere” went on. And when
the cases came to trial the Crown, for the first
time in a Sydney court for many a year, departed
from the well-beaten track and fought tooth and
nail for conviction. The alleged possession of fire dope
by a couple of the accused was joined up to scraps
taken from Domain speeches by others to form the
basis for a charge which amounted to conspiracy to
commit arson, with the mediaeval offence of “seditious
conspiracy.” These offences were artfully welded
together—not in an indictment under the Crimes
Act, but into one drawn in archaic terms on a
common-law pattern. I was not a believer th#n in
the innocence of all these men—nor of their guilt.
I am not a strong believer one way or the other
now even in respect to individuals. But the reve-
lation of what may be done in a perfectly legal
way—of what the Law will on occasion sanction—
gave me a shock that is going to endure as long
as memory stays.
With the community brain-stormed to a pitch at
which it would have given three cheers had Hughes
put the I.W.W. on the game list, a jury panel was
summoned. The chance of bringing to the panel a
jury unbiased against the I.W.W. was almost nil.
And at this trial, in an atmosphere so vitiated that
Justice could not be hoped for, did the prosecu-
tion say to the jury: “Witnesses on whom the
Crown relies against some of the accused are
liars and perjurers” ? Not at all! It put forward as
witnesses on whose testimony the entire case against
the accused rested three men whom the police to-
day would not tender as witnesses against a chicken-
stealer at petty sessions. It tendered them as wit-
nesses of truth, and asked the jury to believe what
they said. The net woven by other witnesses was
closed by those three liars and another. The verdict
was guilty. Is there one reasonably intelligent
citizen of Sydney who will deny that the trial took
place in a manufactured atmosphere? Can anyone,
intelligent or otherwise, be discovered to pub-
licly declare belief that had the jury known what
sort of individuals Henry Scully and the two
Russo-Cockney Jews known as the Goldsteins sub-
sequently showed themselves to the Crown Law De-
partment and Justice Street to be, there would
have been 12 convictions ?
That there was necessity—or, at any rate, justi-
fication —-for review of the matter was admitted by
the Holman-Fuller Government when, after the
production of Scully’s retractions and accusations,
it cabled the San Francisco police to send him
back and on his return appointed Street, the Chief
Judge in Equity, a Royal Commission to say what
he thought of the new evidence made available. His
report shows him to have been gravely disturbed
by what had come to light, particularly about some
of the police. But —and this must be remembered—
the commissions given Street and Ewing differed
fundamentally. Street sat to report on the “fresh
evidence” which it was alleged in the affidavit
sworn after the trial by Scully could be produced.
Street found himself surrounded merely by a mass
of perjury. There was really no “fresh evidence” —
only piles of fiction, and his report that there was
nothing “fresh” to put before a jury was the only
possible conclusion he could come to. Ewing’s
directions from the Crown were contained in a
commission directing him to review the evidence
given at the trial and to report on what he thought
of it. He was directed specifically to give his
opinion oh the verdict of the jury—that is, on the
guilt or innocence of the accused. Street was not.
Therefore when any commentator proclaims that
the jury’s verdict had been already sustained
after inquiry by Street he is utterly wrong, and
so is the other individual who proclaims that the
Court of Appeal agreed with the verdict. The
appeal judgment dealt only with law. Street’s
inquiry was not designed to go half the length of
Ewing’s.
The fact about Ewing’s report is that he sus-
tains the jury’s finding where it convicted of
seditious conspiracy in six cases — Reeve, Glynn,
Larkin, Beatty, Grant and King. In respect to
Hamilton, Fagin, Teen, McPherson, Moore and
Besant he finds they were unjustly convicted. These
last six are the men against whom there was no
evidence at all except that of Scully, the Gold-
steins and the defunct informer McAlister. The
evidence to convict the first six of seditious conspiracy
had been largely independent of these tainted wit-
nesses. Had Ewing reported—as Street did —that
the above-mentioned four witnesses were liars and
perjurers, and proceeded to say that the men con-
victed on their testimony were guilty of conspiracy
to commit arson in specific cases because six others
were clearly guilty of “seditious conspiracy,” then
indeed would the individuals who rush in to call
him an idiot have had something to go on. They
know,. if they know anything, that on Scully’s
evidence no decent man would hang a dog—that if
ever a decent man ’.'.one in ignorance of
what such testimony -rth he would suffer
long anguish of soul after the discovery. Ewing in
effect says: “Having had it proved to me that the
chief witnesses for the Crown against six of these
12 prisoners were (1) liars (2) accomplices in the
seditious conspiracy of the others, or (3) persons
whose connection with the note-forgery cases places
their bona ftdes as informers in this case under
suspicion, I say the jury, had it known this, would
have given the accused the benefit of the doubt I
give them. There is nothing to connect one of
them with any of the fires relied upon by the
Crown. There is abundant reason to believe that
the fire-dope found on Teen and Fagin was planted
on them by the informers.” It oan be said with
easy confidence that Ewing's conclusion on this point
was anticipated by everyone who has followed this
case along its tortuous trail from the beginning
and was familiar with its weird undercurrents.
Whether Ewing is right in concluding that P king’s
sentences on five of the other six were excessive if
for “sedition” only and that four of them have
been sufficiently punished already is a matter for
legitimate difference of opinion. Certainly in those
four cases, if the men had been found guilty of
sedition only, Justice Pring would not have handed
out the 10- and 15-year sentences he did. That
is made clear by the sentence of five years on King,
who was found guilty on the sedition issue alone.
Finally, it may be pointed out that Justice Pring
did not try “the men and find them guilty.” Judges
don’t find men guilty or innocent. Juries do.
Therefore Pring’ s experience and uprightness have
nothing to do with the case; and there is certainly
no reflection upon them.
*
If a habit of impulsive speech lands a
Minister in a libel action the funeral is his
—or ought to be. There is no occasion for
any Minister to say things which involve
him in that sort of trouble, and if he breaks
the rule the taxpayer shouldn’t be called
upon to foot his bill. But the Government
—that is, the country—stood the racket in
Hughes’s argument with Merton, and the
Government —meaning the country—is going
to stand the racket of an action brought on
behalf of Jerger against Ryrie over some
remarks made by the latter at a picture-
show. Hence comes an impression that a
Minister has a charter to say anything that
pleases him and offends the other party, out-
side as well as inside Parliament, about any
person or institution under the sun, and
it is a dangerous impression to make on the
minds of the class of Ministers that Aus-
tralia gets nowadays. The utterly improper
practice began here with Gregory v. Hicks.
In 1903 Gregory, MTI.R., then Minister of
Mines in W.A., retired Hicks, a warden on
the Murchison goldfields, and, in explaining-
why he had done it, he traduced Hicks.
The latter replied with a writ, and got a
verdict for £lOOO and costs, and it was a
Government cheque that paid the damages
and also the costs. Manifestly, the Govern-
ment had no shred of moral justification for
expending public funds to shield an indi-
vidual from the consequences of a foolish
caprice, but the deed was done, and it has
furnished loose-tongued administrators with
a rotten precedent ever since.
“Australia Yet,” from the British Solo-
mons : —-
The chain of island groups that spans the Sou’-
Western Pacific from New Guinea to Samoa is Aus-
tralia’s first line of defence. No potential enemy
should ever again be allowed a foothold in that
strategic region from which to menace the Com*
monwealth and the Dominion. There our naval,
submarine and aerial barrages must be laid down.
For our national safety we, in conjunction with
Great Britain, must tackle the task of welding
those sprawling groups into a coherent political
whole.
Here in the British Solomons we are fed up with
the protectorate business, and desire some form of
representative government. In certain quarters it
has been suggested that the British Solomons should
be converted into a Crown colony quite distinct
from Australia, but it is inconceivable that the
nation most vitally concerned in the policing and
defence of these islands should be divorced from
their internal policies. The most obvious arrange-
ment would be to erect the Melanesian and Poly-
nesian groups into two distinct island federations
controlled by Australia and Maoriland respectively.
To make provision for the great diversity of con'
ditions existing in the different groups it would
be desirable to allow each island group in each
federation to retain control over its purely-local
affairs.
An example of what is possible, if the present
system of diverse control be perpetuated, is to be
seen in the Solomons to-day. The “German” islands
are administered by Australia and the British Solo-
mons by Britain, acting through the High Commis-
sioner in Fiji. Although the terms of the Australian
mandate are still undisclosed, it is taken for
granted that Australian immigration laws will run
in the islands administered under the mandate.
Japan is fighting strongly against this, and has
protested to Britaip. During the war the present
British Solomons Administration did not encourage
the influx of Japanese into this group. Latterly,
however, the local Administration has been advised
that “alien allies” are to be given facilities to
plant and trade equally with other nationals. We
now apprehend an increase in the Asiatic popula-
tion of this group. And what is the use of all
the mandates in the world if Australia’s first line
of defence can be “white-anted” from the British
Solomons, or any other group?


Rapid Efficient Oil Filters.
Williams’
5 Gallons of Dirty
Oil Restored
to lubrication
efficiency in 20
minutes.
Easily Cleaned.
Entirely Automatic.
Made in Australia by
%
Patent.
Save 50 to 70 per
cent, of your Oil
Bill by installing
one of these
Filters.
Write for Booklet—all
information and prices.
BILLETTS’ Patent TUYERE
The Hot Blast Tuyere.
Saves 25 per cent, on Coal Bill
Saves 30 per cent, on Time.
Uses No Water. Never Burns Out.
Clink Discharged without Disturbing Fire.
25/- to 40/-
Particulars and leaflets from
eg
GUTHR.IDGIL L/TP., 10-12 George Street, Camper down (City), Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Victoria can now slap itself on the back
on five separate counts. It is the only State
which has more than half its debt held in
this country, so that the ihterest remains
here. The last conversion has definitely
tipped the scale against the absentee credi-
tor. It is the only State which persistently
tries to change foreign into local debt,
renewing its London loans in Melbourne.
It is the only State which occasionally pays
off a bit of a loan out of revenue. It has
done that twice within a year—first
£1,000,000 and this time £500,000. It has
the smallest debt per head and the biggest
voluntary sinking-fund. To pay off half a
million of its six-million loan in London and
renew £2,725,000 of the balance in Mel-
bourne at 5| per cent, is an achievement
which entitles Treasurer McPherson to buy
himself a new kilt and charge it to the
public.
N.S.W. Premier Storey, commenting on
the remark that he had brought in the most
junior Judge of the smallest State to upend
the trial by jury of the I.W.W. prisoners,
says that Ewing is a Judge, of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania. As a matter of fact.
Tasmania, with a total population equal
to that of half a dozen 'Sydney suburbs, has
Judges of no other court; and his status
is a little higher than that of a Sydney
stipendiary magistrate. His salary—pre-
sumably governed by the importance of his
job—is £l2OO a year; and even the District
Court Judges of N. S. Wales get £l5OO.
Seventeen names of prospective appointees
to the N.S.W. Upper House were published
the other day. Ail as far as is known were
Sydney men, and 14 were trades-union sec-
retaries or officials. Two were described as
Sydney politicians who had lost their jobs
and one as editor of a Sydney Labor paper.
Union secretaries aren’t productive workers
in the sense of producing anything eatable,
drinkable, wearable or inhabitable. Surely
the party could find one nominee (from out-
side Sydney preferred) who knows something
about running and organising big industries,
seeing that the State has so many big indus-
tries to run. A House of city and suburban
strike-organisers is apt to be lacking in some
things.
Maoriland officially announces that its
debt is now £201,171,000, or £165 per head,
and it has a loan scheme on hand for
£14.800,000 more, which will make £177 per
head or thereabouts. It is proposed to raise
the new loan, in part at least, locally, and
to drag it out of the people by violence. That
is to say. the comparatively poor majority
will compel the richer minority to find the
money and wall then call it Shylock. A debt
of £165 per head isn’t very bad as debts go
now r —if the country, like Britain, is working
hard to pay it off. Regarded merely as a
groundwork for fresh borrowing on a big
scale, it is awful. Maoriland at best is
only a small place, and with the new loan
it will be paw'ncd, on public debt alone, for
£3 ss. 2d. per acre—lakes, craters, glaciers,
Alps, blowholes and all. And nearly the
whole of this has been done since 1870, when
Moses Vogel pointed out the Promissory
Land.
Perhaps, after all, Bolshevism has its
drawbacks. Trotsky of Russia says that 70s
“labor conscription gives the State the right
to order a workman to leave the industry
in which he is engaged, and to work in a
State enterprise which requires, his services,”
and he added : “There must be the utmost
severity and strictness in matters great and
small.” That martinet would probably have
flogged the Westralian civil service strikers
and put them railway-building, and then
filled their places with clerks conscripted
from private offices.
The wets in Maoriland are chuckling over
a Parliamentary admission that 276,290 gal-
lons of beer and stout and 17,310 gallons of
whisky are known to have arrived in the 12
no-license districts in the course of a year, and
Heaven knows how much was surreptitiously
introduced. Matoura and Ashburton, which
abolished pubs in 1902, found an urgent use
for 56,084 gallons of the stuff that biteth
like an adder. Even Clutha, with an adult
male population of about 2500, soaked its
back tehth in 21,780 gallons, and for 21
years Clutha has been held up as an example
of righteousness and stern fidelity to prin-
ciple—it was the first district to go dry.
The backsliding of Clutha has put a sting in
the tail of the old Cold Tea aphorism that
what Clutha drinks to-day the rest of Maori-
land will drink to-morrow.
The Federal Government has seldom the
whole courage of its opinions, so though it
prohibited the holding of a big threatening
pro-Jerger meeting on the steps of Parlia-
ment House, the event came off so far as
the lower steps were concerned. Still it had
PERPETUAL YOUTH.
BEAUTY DOCTOR HUGHES : “I am going to re-christen you the King-and-Empire party,
and then it will he treason for the people to vote against us.”
the valor to close the galleries for that night,
so that no demonstrators should get in and
drop old Hansakds on members’ heads. The
exact rights of the community to sit in the
galleries and look down on their representa-
tives are sometimes hard to define. It would
be absurd for the people to be shut out. as
the Caucus —the real Parliament nowadays
—-shuts them out. Yet some very absurd
laws have been passed because a few hundred
hoodlums threatened to shed bricks from
above if they didn’t pass. If members occu-
pied the galleries and the public had the floor
it might be different. It is difficult to over-
awe an Assembly by dropping things up at it
“Date Stamp”: I have just filled in my
Federal income-tax form, and I’ll wager a
rabbit-skin to a politician’s promise that not
25 per cent, of the single men in Australia
have done —or will do—likewise. In this
district only the same old half-dozen married
men ask for forms at the local p.o. each
year. I know, because I am the p.m. But
I never get a call from single men—and
there are a lot of them knocking around —
who make their pound a night (seven nights
a week) at rabbiting in the winter and
their two pounds 1 ' - Air.g the shearing
season. No other A . Jks’so much about
its “rights” as these men do;, and somehow
the race of tax-gatherers never seems game
to show them that responsibilities and rights
run together.
Anybody who can propound a feasible plan
for postponing either the Victorian elections
or the harvest will get the glad hand from
Premier Lawson. The trouble is the eternal
one of bags—wheat sacks. There is a
shortage as usual, and Hayseed will have to
pay for the scarcity, also as usual. Bulk
handling of wheat should save him many
thousands of pounds every year, and he re-
members that Lawson, like his predecessors,
has been fooling with the question long
enough to have got a decent system into
going order twice over. Elections and
harvest will just about synchronise, and
somebody is liable to get hurt.
It is officially announced that it tyas cost
£12,000,000 of loan money to put 8000
soldiers “on the land” in N. S. Wales and
1.0,000 more are to be provided for; and
even at the same rate they will cost
£15,000,000. So there will be about the same
number of settlers as in 1914, or perhaps
rather less, and a new mortgage of
£27,000,000 on the soil. But there are good
judges who are saying that the cost per
soldier is likely to be greater rather than
less. Instead of being worth 35., or there-
abouts, wheat of the next harvest is already
being sold in the agricultural back-country
at 9s. per bushel; and that price is bound
to have its effect on the price also of land.
It begins to look as though, after all, it
might be cheaper to start a few factories.
From the Federal Gallery :
The notion that the rise in screw has made the
House of Reps, a band of brothers aching to
legislate in amity is getting damaged at every
meeting. The violence aroused by the Jerger case
has led to an increase of embittered language, sud-
den suspensions and perspiration. The other night
Fenton, one -of the heaviest vocalists in' the inter-
jectors’ chorus, was relieved of duty for the re-
mainder of the sitting. This action was followed
by the gag, which only redoubled the uproar and
started recalcitrant Laborites inventing expedients
for blocking business. So we now get a renewal
of the old circus of moving adjournments and bell-
ing for quorums, with a vast pretence of indigna-
tion on the part of the Government. Actually, it
is possible that the Cabinet welcomes the chance for
a loaf sc long as Labor will accept the blame. Anyhow,
the desire to discuss large public matters like the
erection of a wind vane on Kosciusko seems to grow
unanimous when Hughes is offered a clear run.
Last week a bare quorum yawned at great length
through the Bureau of Science and Industry Bill,
and two or three hours were even dedicated to
decimal coinage; but the Tariff is still suspended
on the notice paper, and under Hughes’s manage-
ment it will be lucky if it gets through committee
by Christmas.
Not many days pass now without the N.
S. Wales Government appointing or threat-
ening or promising to appoint a Royal Com-
mission. The number of things Ministers
don’t know and apparently have no real
opinion about is amazing. On a lot of
things they thought they had an opinion,
hut mostly it wasn’t an opinion—it was only
a “class-conscious” prejudice or parrot-talk,
and being now where they have some re-
sponsibility they are afraid to back tbeir
bogus opinion by action. So they appeal to
a Royal Commission to lift them out of the
hole they find themselves in. Probably it
will be that way with Maternity McGirr
presently. After he has made friends of the
mushy sentimentalists the Government will
appoint a Commission or a Board or some-
thing to investigate the matter; and when
that body flings a pail of cold water on the
whole business Ministers will say, “Ladies,
you see it’s not our fault. You know what
we were prepared to do. But how can it
be done in the face of this Commission’s
report?”
Pennington, Yic. Government Whip, has
been feeling Assembly members’ pulses on
the subject of a Licensing Bill to make it
easier to carry Prohibition —to substitute,
in fact, a simple majority for the present
three-fifths required. Some of the old
stagers are unresponsive. Let the Cold Tea
party bring along its bill or let the Govern-
ment risk a measure, they say, and take a
vote. The Ministry is a good deal like
the youngster who, having been .told that
the green apples were poisoned, instigated
her brother to chance a bite, and if it didn’t
kill him she’d have some.
The North, more or less crazed by isola-
tion, goes on its giddy course, crippling in-
dustry, causing population to drift away, and
putting nails steadily into the coffin of a
White Australia. There was the other day
a sort of tentative or experimental shindy
on the wharves of Darwin for IDs. per hour
wages, though the matter has been hung up.
And there has been a wharf strike at Bowen
because the vessel was of the P. and O. per-
suasion and it was rumored that Father
Jerger was on a P. and O. boat at Fre-
mantle, 3700 miles away. It looked a great
distance, but the arm of Stop-work is long
and reaches far.
From the Federal Gallery : '
People outside hardly appreciate the importance
of Iliggs. When he retired from the caucus room
he suddenly became the tenant of a specially-fur-
nished sanctum that must have cost a bit to prepare.
This was significant of th,e eminence he had won in
the affections of the Government. But even that height
is almost a hillock compared with the Mt. Everest he
has since attained. He is now the rectifier of
grievances—the power that secures reforms by a
few words in the ear of the authorities, and those
who have been long taught to value politicians by
the extent of their influence speak of him with
awe. Unquestionably Higgs is a much bigger fel-
low as a nominal Independent than he was as a
Tudor lieutenant. To hear any member of the
Cabinet talking to him in the lobbies is to be
convinced of a boom in the soft-soap industry.
Dear B., —Tas. Labor-leader Ogden, in
his denial or confirmation of The Bulletin’s
remarks anent “Labor’s Dry Rot,” is reck-
lessly inaccurate in his tally of the number
of R.C.’s in his party. He declares' there
are only three in 13. The Tas. Labor caucus
embraces 14 members, 13 in the Assembly
and one upstairs. Six of the 14 —McOonald
(M.L.C.), Lyons, O’Keefe, Sheridan, Cos-
grove, Ogilvie—are professed R. 0., and the
whole 14, with the possible exception of not
more than two, are pledged to vote for cer-
tain educational concessions required by the
Catholic Federation. The Ministerial party
of 17 Assemblymen and a dozen Upper
Housers' does not .appear to include even
one Roman —a state of affairs which may be
partly due to accident or oversight, but is
admittedly an inevitable outcome of the
public endorsement of Labor candidates by
the Catholic Federation at last general elec-
tions.—Yours, L. P.
“Baree”: Three houses were recently
built at the Railway Reserve, Darwin. All
materials were already in the hands of the
Railway Department, and the estimate for
labor was under £3OO each. The actual outlay
for each was over £BOO. It costs as much
to send a ton of stuff from the jetty to the
bond as to send it from Sydney to Darwin.
What hope is there for the Northern Terri-
tory under such conditions? Yet such con-
ditions will continue so long as Darwin re-
mains a remote dead-end, reached only by
a circuitous water-route.
The N.S.W. executive of the Labor party
goes the whole schweinhound in pursuance
of the doctrine of spoils to the victor. It
thinks that all existing boards should be
sacked and replaced by new ones approved
by Labor. A simple Act of Parliament
making the whole service removable at a
month’s notice can be passed sb soon as
the requisite nominations are made to the
Upper House. After which, with a civil
service composed of Garden, Brookfield and
Judd, a good deal may be done without the
bother of legislation.
No old third party has yet had luck at
a U.S. Presidential election, but the new
one may break the spell. It has put the
recognition of the Irish Republic on its
programme. The same plank was suggested
for the Democratic programme, and the vot-
ing against it was only three to two. With
the new crowd on its side, nearly two-fifths
of the Democrats and an unknown number
of the Republicans, things may happen for
the cause of Erin. At last census (1910)
the U.S. contained 32 million white people
who were either foreign-born or had foreign
parents ; there were 49 million other whites,
and very many of them had foreign grand-
parents. These last included the descendants
of the embittered Irish immigrants of the
famine years. Add 10 million negroes, and
the people who came over in the Mayflower
don’t count. There was never so big a
foreign population in Uncle Sam’s country,
and it is this mixed lot to which the third
party offers the flipper of amity.
Before the N. S. Wales elections the sup-
porters of Storey cried fiercely, “Hang the
profiteer !” Now, being reminded of the
subject, they say carelessly, “Oh, hang the
profiteer!”
A TRIFLE PREMATURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The statement that several politicians would not
be surprised to see Mr. Storey accept the vacant
Agency-General is ridiculed by the Premier. ‘While
I am in the health I am to-day,’ he said yesterday,
‘Australia is good enough for me.’ ”
Am I not well? Then wherefore prate to me
Of London and Oblivion! Let be!
Do I suggest a victim of those ills
Which are removed by Lumpkin’s Liver Pills.-
Did I not breast our legislative bar,
And, spurning the teetotaller’s cigar,
Drink with such zest as to confound the Prince,
And impel Grigg dumb wonder to evince?
Lieutenant-Colonel Henley, C.8.E.,
Chants aspirateless hymns of hate at me.
His colleagues carp with equal fretful ness,
Though, certainly, they drop their h’s less.
But are their muscles sturdier than these,
Their constitutions freer from disease ?
Is not my brain as good as on the day
I first essayed the patriotic lay ?
The day may dawn when Age’s blighting hand
AV’ill place upon my dimming eyes his brand,
Weaken my knee-joints and remove such teeth
As I have left, on top and underneath;
And finally, alas! put past my \-each
All hope of roaring forth another speech!
Till that time comes, as come it doubtless will,
I would prefer the prophets to be still.
Wait till I draw near Death’s remorseless door,
Then talk to me of London —not before.
N.S.W.
J. B. D.


HOPE AND PEACE.
“Into a dark, tremendous sea of cloud....
I press God’s lamp to my breast; its splendor, soon or late, will pierce the gloom; I shall emerge one day."
Hro[?]


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
bhasT
Brand,
Producers of Lead in the following forms—
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Ch'emicai Lead.
Also of—
Refined. Silver (Bar and Granulated). Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products —
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.)
containing Silver and Lead, Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL. Manager. T. H. SEARS, Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS. EC. 2
A. J. SMITH, London Manager and Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ELECTRIC STEEL
“THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
We make a Feature of Specially Heat-treated Steel Castings for Ore
Crusher and Rock Breaker Parts. Battery and Mill Liners. Stamper
Shoes and Dies, Cams, Heads, Tappets, Ring Dies. Tramway Tyres.
Toughened Steel Truck Wheels. We can supply any quality hitherto
imported.
ALT. STAGES OF MANUFACTURE UNDER MODERN SCIENTIFIC CONTROL.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
Telegraphic Address: “Electric Steel.” ALEXANDRIA. SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Bank of Commerce
(Svdney) :
To Re-
June Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1911.. £33,378 3 p.c. = £32,653 £72;> £3,954
1919 36 517 24,, ~ 29,786 6,731 10,685
1913!.’ 54,175 3’ „ „ 35,861 18,314 28,999
1914 54,953 3 ~ „ 35,806- 19,087 48,086
1915 55,335 3 „ „ 35,871 19,464 07,550
1916.. 58.595 3 „ „ 35,903 22,692 90,242
1917.. 62,477 3 „ „ 35,960 26,517 116,759
City Bank of Sydney purchased.
1918.. 80,255 4 p.c. = 47,947 32,308 149,067
1919.. 97 256 5 „ „ 59,934 37,322 186,389
1920!! 108!391 54 ~ „ 65,967 42,424 228,813
It is now 10 years since the Australian
Bank of Commerce, having risen from the
ashes of the old Australian Joint Stock
Bank, issued its first accounts, It started
off with the remnants of the old boom-
dereliet’s troubles left among the cinders,
and there were several features about the
new bank which, at the time, did not make
it attractive from an investor’s point of
view. Under the arrangement with old
creditors ss. in the £ of their money had
been converted into share scrip, and another
10s. into 4 p.c. inscribed deposits. So the
A.B.C. started with £1,859,022 of what was
virtually 4 p.c. pref. capital and £1,042,960
of ordinary capital—almost three millions of
capital to be fed by about four millions of
interest-earning assets, with two-thirds of the
capital guaranteed 4 p.c. But A. P. Stewart,
then general manager, upon whom devolved
the big task of replacing the sick-looking
A.J.S. by a new bank with a sound consti-
tution, was a man of long vision and with
great faith in the Commonwealth’s future:
He foresaw the big opportunities which lay
ahead of a bank that could offer new credi-
tors exceptionally good security. Disregard-
ing the £429,317 of deposit receipts, repre-
senting 2s, 6d. in the £ of old debts, which
had to be met after the A.B.C. had been
in business a couple of years, the bank’s
first accounts showed that it had £2,829,305
of funds of. its own to protect £2,049,973
of the public’s money; in other words, it
had over 475. of assets to meet every £
entrusted to its care. Such strength invited
the patronage of people with accounts to
place, so during the next five years a further
1$ million of the public’s money had found
its way across the counter. But not even
in his most sanguine moments, when raking
amongst the old debris, could Mr. Stewart
have dreamt that 10 years after its estab-
lishment his bank would be holding over nine
millions of the public’s money, nor could he
have foreseen that the 4 p.c. inscribed
deposits would, in a few years, represent
very cheap capital. Early in the career of
the A.B.C. the directors—led in this matter
by Mark Sheldon —came to the conclusion
that, though good headway was being made
in attracting new business, it was a slow
process waiting for new customers to build
up the bank to a size more in keeping with
its volume of funds. So they set about
acquiring business wholesale, and were suc-
cessful in getting the old City of Sydney, lock,
stock and barrel, for £350,000. That pur-
chase gave the A.B.C. the handling of at
least a further two millions of the public’s
money.
As in other banks, the abnormal condi-
tions arising from the war have also helped
to artificially expand this one’s balance-
sheet figures. Here is its amazing record
since the first accounts were presented :
1910. 1915. 1920.
Capital and reserves £970,283 £1,281,319 £1,464,813
Inscribed deposits. . .1,859,022 1,614,689 1,413,657
Deposits .. ~1,716,477 3,016,323 8,108,526
Other liabilities . . 762,813 347,081 1,063,051
Liquid assets . . 1,185,979 1,921,588 4,374,093
Advances, etc. . . 3,754,889 3,980,587 7,176,809
Premises . . . . 367,727 357,237 499,145
Disclosed profits "for the past 12 months,
before writing £lO,OOO off premises, were over
three times those for the bank’s first year.
Actually net earnings were even better than
that £118,391, for war-loan stocks having
depreciated heavily in the market during the
year the directors wrote down book values
to market prices, though there is only a
remote possibility of the management having
to unload any Government paper at discount
quotations. And if things went so badly
that this and other institutions did have to
realise suddenly, prices would be very dif-
ferent when the flood of paper flowed into
market. There are other reasons besides
the expansion of the business which have
made the A.B.C. profits so much larger than
they were nine or 10 years ago. Among
the bank’s legacies from the A.J.S. were
old station properties, etc., of a written-
down book value of close upon a million, and
they could not have been a very productive
lot. Favorable selling conditions enabled
the management to realise on practically all
of these properties, and thus released funds
for more profitable employment. How
realisations compared with book values has
never been, disclosed ; in some cases losses
were sustained, and since the new bank
had very small, if any, contingency reserves
to fall back upon, probably early profits
were cut into to make losses good. But it'
can be regarded as certain that the realisa-
tions showed a net profit which the manage-
ment has stacked aside. The purchase of
inscribed deposits is another .source of profit.
Under its arrangement with old A.J.S.
creditors the bank is under an obligation* to
apply £30,000 per annum for this purpose,
and since the buying is done in open market,
where these 4 p.c. inscribed deposits are
fetching only 15s. in the £. with its £30,000
the bank is able to redeem £40,000 each year,
giving it a profit of £lO.OOO. It will take
about 35 years to repay all these old deposits
at this rate, and while money is worth more
than 4 p.c. so long will profits result from
the purchase. No doubt, profits made in
this way are all going to aid the internal re-
serves of the bank.
The A.B.G.’s visible strength is very
great. Notwithstanding the rapid expansion,
at the latest balance the management was
holding less than £3 4s. of the public’s money
for every £ of its own funds, and £47 14s.
of every £lOO of liabilities was held liquid.
To meet the £4,797,484 of liabilities not
held liquid there were advances and premises
with a book value of £7,675,954 —exception-
ally good cover. Disclosed net profits for
the past year were equal to just 9 p.c. on
paid capital, and since only 5-4 p.c. was
paid to shareholders there was a very sub-
stantial lay-by. The interim div. paid
earlier in the year was at the rate of 5
p.c., blit when the directors discovered how
well things were going they decided to make
the distribution for the final half at the rate
of 6 p.c. p.a.—double the rate paid during
the bank’s first seven years.
* * * *
Mangrovite Belting, Ltd. (Sydney),
tanners and manufacturers of leather goods:
Net To Re- De-
Profits. Dividends.. serves, ficit.
Formation exes., £216 .. £216
June, 1917 .. £1379 10 p.c. = £1361 £lB 198
Nov., 1917 . . 1086 10 „ 1046 40 158
June, 1918 .. 1638 10 „ ~ 1555 83 75
Re-
serves.
Nov., 1918 . . 1353 10 „ „ 1199 154 79
June. 1919 . . 1842 10 „ „ 1840 8 81
Nov,, 1919 . . 2802 10 „ „ 2083 719 800
June, 1920 . . 4556 10 „ „ 3720 836 1636
This is the concern Chas. Ludowici launched
when he broke away from the old J. C.
Ludowici co. a few years ago. From the
beginning Mangrovite has given its share-
holders regular 10 p.c. divs., though the
visible profit left over has been slender. The co.
got to work at a favorable time from a
trading point of view, for war eonditiohs
gave the local leather-manufacturing indus-
try a helping hand. In 1913 the value of
leather-belting imported was £31,946; since
then the average has been under £lO,OOO per
annum (including the figures for last year,
when the Commonwealth -was flooded with
imported goods), and, of course, prices being
higher, that represents a greater proportion-
ate falling-off in the number of articles im-
ported. Local manufacturers have lately
also been developing a promising export
trade, the total value of shipments of leather-
manufactures having increased from £19,652
for 1914-15 to £75.176 for 191 S-19. During
the past 12 months it has been easy for manu-
facturers to show fat profits if they wished,
because owing to the market operations of
overseas speculators the value of raw
materials soared to record heights, and by
including old stocks at their appreciated
market values large surpluses could have
been disclosed to aid profits from manufac-
turing. How conservatively Mangrovite stocks
w r ere valued is not clear, but managing-
director Chas. Ludowici is an old battler
for Australian industry who.has dug deeper
into economics and other abstruse subjects
than most manufacturers, and it is unlikely
that he has not protected his stocks, par-
ticularly as a recent market slump has given
him a reminder. He interprets, that col-
lapse as “an indication that the supply has
become equal to the demand in the world’s
markets.” Which means that. Australian
manufacturers are again confronted with
keen competition; and, unless labor is pre-
pared to do a fair day’s work and cease
harassing the local manufacturer, the Com-
monwealth will “lose all the trade advan-
tages gained during the past few years, and
depression, lack of employment and reduced
wages must assuredly become general.”
•
Mangrovite is expanding rapidly. Paid
capital is now double what it was only 12
months ago. This shows how the new
funds have been put to work :
June, June, June,
1917. 1919. 1920.
Capital £23,338 £31,547 £63,773
Liabilities 10,047 10,971 9,967
Property and plant . . 15,687 15,801 28,118
Stocks . . . . . . 13,785 18,762 31,248
Book debts 4,381 6,528 9,402
Cash, etc. . . . . . . 1,028 3,347 12,094
Factory extensions are still incomplete, so
probably a good deal of the cash on hand
at the balance will have gone into fixed
assets before the next accounts appear. The
co. has recently also purchased warehouse
premises; and owing to high prices of
materials much more capital is nowadays
required to finance stocks.
The Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Bris-
bane): —
Dividends and Written
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. * Off. Reserves.
1908.'. £2,764 5 p.c. =£1331 £1,433 £l,OOO
1909.. 4,477 54, „ „ 1586 2,891 1,000
1910.. 6,585 64 ~ „ 2248 4,337 1,000
1911.. 4,274 6 ~ „ 2761 1,513 1,000
£912. . 11,305 74 ~ ~ J 459 2,846 6,000
1913.. 9,710 S’ „ „ 4920 4,790 6,000
1914.. 15,405 9 „ „ 5535 3,870 12,000
1915.. 16,721 .10 ~ ~6150 10,571 12,000
Reserve Funds capitalised, £9500. . 2,500
(Contingency Reserves —shown in table as written
off —-capitalised, £19,389.)
1916.. 11,055 9 p.c. = 6719 1,336 5,500
1917.. 10,623 8 „ ~7605 1,618 6,900
191 S. . 13,925 8 ~ ~7827 1,998 11.000
1919.. 14,773 8 „ ~ 7840 1,933 '16,000
(Contingency Reserves —shown in table as written
off—capitalised, £6667.)
1920.. 17,127 8 p.c. = 8925 3,202 21,000
Gross profits : 1919, £69.522; 1920, £94,749.
That sudden leap would send a shudder
through the Cold Tea camp of the North if
the figures meant all they look at first glance.
But the £25,227 increase of gross profits has
been accompanied by a spring of £22,874 in
exes. ; so the P. and L. surplus has improved
only £2353. Presumably the additional duty
of 3d. per gal. on beer and Is. per gal. on
spirits imposed by the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment three months ago has inflated the
figures on both sides of the accounts. Work-
ing expenses have also increased during the
period; but the directors admit that beer
has flowed in such large volumes that the
brewing plant has beep taxed to “full
capacity”; in fact, the Northern State has
been so thirsty for “Bulimba” brew that the
co. has not been able to keep pace with orders
to fill-’em-up-again. Queensland breweries
have been on a better wicket than those in
other States, for the Labor Government up
north refused to regard early-closing as a
stepr necessary to put Wilhelm in his proper
place. High costs of raw materials and
heavier wages bills, have been the worst
troubles, and they have been mostly passed
on. The thousands of Diggers abroad also
had some effect on beer consumption, but this
loss of trade was probably more than counter-
balanced by the artificial prosperity which
Queensland has experienced along with the
other States, Lately conditions have been very
favorable, and during the past two years
this co. ha.s had a brand-new lager plant to
help it. Evidently the directors • consider
the future of beer in the Northern State is
all right, for they are now undertaking con-
siderable extensions.
How little the management of this brewery
has troubled about the activity of the no-
liquor party is evidenced by the new funds
which have been laid out on fixed assets dur-
ing the past five years. This comparison
also shows the progress made since 1910 :
1910. 1915. 1920.
Liabilities .. .. , . £28,424 £26,888 £31,476
Land, plant and properties 44,587 55,992 73,643
Stock .. .. .. 12,176 17,017 44,795
Book debts . . . . . . 11,182 38,870 45,804
Cash, etc 775 10,926 9,846
In the first table amounts transferred to a
contingency reserve at each balance are
shown as written off, though, since during
recent years £26,000-odd of these accumula-
thras have been capitalised, it is reasonable
to assume that some of the £4385 now to
credit of the fund can be regarded as
true reserves. In the comparison just made
this contingency fund is not treated as a
liability. Paid capital in 1910 was £33,750,
and during the next five years £26,250 of
new capital was got in. Paid capital is
now £112,500, but £35.556 of that £52,500
increase represents capitalised reserves.
During the five years to 1915 the book value
of fixed assets increased by £11,405, since
then by £17,651. During the former period
the,volume of liquid assets expanded £43,280 ;
over the past five years, £33,032. Allowing
for the small movements of liabilities and
deducting the new cash got in from share-
holders, the co. showed an improvement of
£29,970 for the five years to 1915 and
£29.151 since. But during the earlier period
the brewery provided only about £20,850 of
divs., compared with approximately £37,250
during the past five years. Old shareholders
can thus have no complaints, particularly
since the 8 p.c. div. is worth more than that
because of the capitalisation of reserves.
.During the past 12 months every three of the
old 6s. Sd. shares were consolidated, and at
the same time nominal capital was increased
from £lOO,OOO to £150,000. Each of the
112,500 fully-paids was, at the balance, re-
presented by 255. 4d. of net assets, but in-
vestors in beer are so nervy nowadays that
they are willing to pay only about 15s.
Seeing that there are net liquid assets to
cover over 12s. per share, they are thus offer-
ing only 3s. for over 13s. worth of fixed
assets; and goodwill must be worth some-
thing in addition.
Aarons’s Exchange Hotel (Sydney) :
Profits. Dividends.
June, 1914 .. £lll3 12$ p.c. = £765
Dec., 1914 . . 752 10 „ „ 612
June, 1915 . . 747 10 ~ ~ 612
Dec., 1915 .. 64 Nil
June, 1916 . . 943 10 p.c. = 612
Dec., 1916 . . 779 10 „ „ 612
June, 1917 . . 767 10 „ „ 612
Dec., 1917 . . 623 10 „ „ 612
June, 1918 . . 1004 10 ~ ~ 612
Dec.. 1918 . . 785 10 „ 612
June, 1919 .. 23 Nil
Dec., 1919 . . 1919 10 p.c. = 612
.Tune, 1920 . . 2088 10 „ „ 612
The profit of £4007 shown for the past 12
months was nominally over 32 p.c. on paid
capital. But shareholders got only £1220
(10 p.c.), no less than £2600 being used to
write down the book value of the lease and
furniture, and to reduce the “improvements
account.” The year’s profits were more
than double those for any previous 12
months since the reconstruction, in 1912,
after the old lease expired. At that time
the co. had not made ample provision for
a return of capital in the eyent of the land-
lord asking it to get out, and a renewal of
the lease was granted only on the co. under-
taking considerable structural alterations,
including the addition of a couple of storeys.
When the co.’s affairs were overhauled con-
siderable old capital was written off as lost,
and it started afresh with a paid capital of
£12,250 —35.000, shares of 10s. paid to 7s.
Besides giving shareholders a return on this
money, the management has the task of try-
ing to accumulate sufficient surplus profits
for a return of capital in about 10 years.
This shows the progress which has been
made in providing for that day:—
June, June, June,
1912. 1919. 1920.
Assets apart from goodwill,
lease and furniture ..£1416 £4928 £.669
Liabilities . . . . • ■ 993 2508 1854
Surplus assets .. £423 £2420 £5815
The very good run the co. bad during the
past 12 months has resulted in an increase
in the liquid surplus for the year equal to
over 1$ times what was accumulated dur-
ing the previous - seven years. After pay-
ment of the latest div. the management had
about £7OOO to make good. To pay 10 p.c.
p.a. to shareholders and have the whole of
capital represented by surplus liquid assets
in 10 years will necessitate an average
annual net profit of about £l9OO after pro-
viding for all necessary renewals, etc. If
earnings can be maintained at anything like
their present level this task will be easy,
and as the amortisation investments grow
it will become even easier. But, as the
first table, shows, the pub business is an erra-
tic one, while there are still doubts as to
precisely what will happen to the liquor
trade during the next few years. If heavy
reduction of licenses becomes the fashion,
which seems the most likely outcome of the
anti-liquor campaign in N. S. Wales, since
Aarons’s Exchange is one of the better-class
small residential pubs, the co.’s life should
be good for at least the 10 years the land-
lord has given it.
* * * +
With the exception of £432,000. which
it is claimed can easily be obtained in time,
the money is how in hand for the conversion
of the Vic. 4 p.c. loan maturing in London
on Oct. 1. Present bondholders agreed to
take up new securities to the extent of
£2.293,000 (they run till 1923-25 at 6-J p.c.) ;
Melbourne provided £2.725,000 at 54 (free
of Federal and State income-taxes) ; redemp-
tion funds furnished £550,000. The best
offer mentioned by London worked out at
£6 18s. 6d„ including exes., for £4,000.000
for seven years. The Melbourne flotation
pans out at £6 ss. 3d. net, and the London
conversion at £6 7s.
* * * *
Bolshies have been sitting heavily on the
chest of the Malaya Tin Corporation, the
Sydney co. which has interests in Siberia.
During 1918 the co. had all its belongings
in that quarter confiscated. Then Admiral
Ivoltchak hove in sight and restored the
co.’s rights and returned its chattels. But,
no labor for prospecting being available, the
co.’s staff became a sort of comforts fund,
distributing food on behalf of the Govern-
ment. The co.’s admiral patron eventually
went under to a new Bolshie hurricane,
and the Corporation’s manager, G. V. Piper,
also decided it wise to make a strategic
retreat upon Harbin, where he still awaits
the passing of the storm. An American
crowd had proposed to float a co. from which
the Malaya Corp. would get £20,000 cash
and £200,000 in shares if the portion of the
Severnich property offered them proved to he
all it looked ; but in the circs, they have not
been able to get a glimpse of the minerals.
Lease rents, etc., have been paid to the end
of September, and the agreement with the


If your house is wired for electricity, and you are
having trouble with your door-bell because of ex-
hausted batteries, you are being annoyed needlessly.
The famous little Wayne Bell Ringing Transformer
will ring your door-bells with the same current that
lights your house, and will need no further attention
after once being installed. Come in and see it
demonstrated. Australian General Electric Company,
corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Syd-
ney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne. — Advt. [4
* * * *
The man who leaves little to be desired may be
either a paragon of virtue or a burglar. The roof-
ing that' leaves little to be desired is Adamax
Asphaltum Roofing. It is a twentieth-century roof-
ing, absolutely unaffected by time, rust, atmospheric
acids and chemical fumes. The most serviceable
roofing for bungalows, factories, garages, farm build-
ings, etc., costing less than the price of iron and
less for freight charges. For further particulars
write to William Adams and Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney. Also at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth
and Adelaide.— Advt. [4
*** , *
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe. —Letter received from
Table Cape Municipality, Council Chambers, Wyn-
yard, dated 19th August, 1914: “The five miles 60
chains of Bin. wood pipes (for pressures of 350 ft.
head) which were supplied by you for the Wynyard
waterworks, have proved to be very satisfactorv.
They are giving good results. Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) H. If. Littler, Town Clerk.” Send for our
illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Company, Ltd., (H. 0.) Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and Foots-
cray, Victoria. Contractors to all State Govern-
ments.— Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
* * * «
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Mix your concrete with Leplastrier’s Patent
“Multimix” Concrete Mixer. Sizes from li to 54
cubic feet per batch. Drain your roads with
Leplastrier’s “Quickset” Concrete Pipe Moulds. All
Australian made by Arthur Leplastrier apd Co.,
Head Office, Sydney.— Advt.
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. (London) ; Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work ; contractors advised; railway work.
90 Queen-street, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
The manufacture of “Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
Tasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Svdney.—
Advt.
* * ■* *
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selbv ft Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.—Advt
61 YEARS* REPUTATION.
PIONE.ILR. Leather Belting'.
Made and
guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI (SL SON L/TD.,
TANNERS & LEATHER BELT MAKERS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED IN 1858.
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
are FREE FROM MINERAL OILS. They are of the highest
possible quality, and keep the uppers of shoewear soft and
pliable, thus preventing cracks and prolonging the life of the
leather.
COLORS—BIack, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
In Bottles and Tubes. Obtainable everywhere.
Bostock’s
T ry
0
AINSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in
Australia.
Losses from Fire, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation, Motor
Car, Plate-Glass Breakage. Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops,
1 Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Bates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY. J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Americans has been extended. Meantime the
Corp. has been looking- around for tin in
Siam, but with one exception all areas proved
of little value. That exception, the direc-
tors declare, “offers full compensation for
all disappointments, and places in the hands
of the Corp. one of the finest areas yet
secured by Australian investors.” They
promise to become more communicative when
several details have been attended to. Capital
is £42,000, in £5 shares; but at the balance,
away back in October last, the co. also owed
£14,462. Of this total of £56,402 conces-
sions, prospecting and plant had swallowed
£30,846. The other big asset was the £15,441
share interest in Ratrut Basin. The co. had
only £36 in cash, and was owed £872. The
Ratrut is the Corp.’s sole source of income:
during the 12 months to October 31 last
it received £3200 from the tin show, but that
fell short of the outlay by £205.
* * * #
Hume Pipe Co. (Australia), Ltd.-
Ten years ago Hume Bros., ornamental-
steel manufacturers, of Adelaide, turned
their attentions to steel-concrete pipes. Util-
ising centrifugal force to embed steel in
compressed concrete, their early experiments
indicated that they had hit upon a very
promising idea. The next two years were
spent in perfecting plant, and resulted in an
outfit which can be operated by under a
dozen men, and which can be easily trans-
ported to manufacture on the spot where
the pipes are required. Extensive works
were first laid down in Adelaide, but since
then the concern has established branches in
other States. An English co. has acquired
the rights for Britain, a S’African crowd has
taken over the rights for that country, and
the Government has purchased the process
for N. S. Wales. The co. has at present
£lOO,OOO worth, of contracts in hand, and
prospects of further business look so bright
—besides pipes the co. is now manufactur-
ing dozens of concrete side-lines —that a recon-
struction is being effected to get in new
capital. Hume Bros. Cement i Iron Co.,
Ltd., is being passed over to the Plume
Pipe Co. (Australia), Ltd., a half-million
concern in 500,000 shares of £1 each. The
old co. gets 210,000 fully-paids for its net
assets of £234,738; this is inclusive of
£lOO,OOO for patent rights, etc. The public
is invited to subscribe for 150,000 shares.
The promoters are not communicative on the
subject of profits; they merely “draw atten-
tion to the wonderful investment” the old co.
proved for original holders: “the public put
in capital amounting to £14,000 and has re-
ceived about £30,000 in return.”
A cry from a congested port:—
For weeks most of the collieries in the Newcastle
and Maitland districts have been working- full time,
but, in spite of this, the coal output is totally
insufficient to meet requirements. The reduction of
working- hours in Britain has resulted in greatly
reduced supplies of coal, and former buyers of the
British article are now obliged to look elsewhere.
Inquiries for Newcastle coal are reaching Australia
fi-om all parts of the world, and some buyers are
prepared to pay freight amounting to seven and
eight times the value of the coal to secure prompt
shipment. Newcastle is a congested port. At the
moment you can see a large number of ships tied
to buoys or moored to wharves on the north side
of the harbor, all awaiting cargoes; and inter-
state steamers arriving to load coal are sometimes
compelled to remain 10 days before they can get
what they want. A curious exception is provided
by the Japanese. During the past few months
dozens and dozens of their steamers have entered
Newcastle, and in the case of these packets there
is very little waiting. They slip into port, go
under a crane, load five or six thousand tons of
coal, and clear for the North. Many good Aus-
tralians are beginning to wonder what it means.
Where is the stuff going? Is it being stacked? And
if so how near to Australia?
When the Electrolytic Zinc Co. approached
the ML Read and Rosebery (Tas.) Board
with a proposition to treat that group’s ores,
chairman Bowes Kelly and his directors
turned it down, and in December last de-
clared that they intended to go ahead, in
conjunction with the Speck Government, on
the Lake Rolleston scheme, and lay down
a 50-ton-per-day plant at Zeelian, where
they had acquired the old Tas. Smelting Co.’s
site. During the seven months since they
have developed cold feet, apparently because
of the difficulties in the way first of raising
the .million required for plant and then
of getting the plant up and at work. Now
they burst forth with an announcement that
an agreement has been entered into with the
Electrolytic Zinc under which that co. takes
the entire Read-Rosebery outfit —it is not so
long ago since the Hercules, Mt. Read and
Primrose mines were declared to be show-
ing eight millions’ worth of ore—in ex-
change for 350,000 £1 ordinary Electrolytic
shares, deferred as to divs. until June, 1925,
and the right to take up 150,000 £1 8 p.c.
participating cum. prefs. Read-Rosebery’s
paid capital at Sept. 30 last was £156,503,
with 100,000 fully-paid £1 shares owing to
Mt. Lyell, and a further 97,500 due to the
Tas. Copper co. as vendors. This gives a
total share register of £354,003. But, in
addition, Mt. Lyell has financed prospecting,
etc., to the extent of £lBO,OOO of hard cash,
and of the 850,000 Electrolytic shares to be
allotted to Read-Rosebery; Mt. Lyell takes
180,000 in exchange for its outlay. That
leaves 170,000 Electrolytics to be distributed
in place of Read-Rosebery’s 854,003 shares,
or 48 Electrolytics for each 100 Read-Rose-
berys. In consideration of being relieved of
the baby, Lyell declares its willingness to
accept only *30,000 shares in place of the
48,000 it would be entitled to. This means
that other Read-Rosebery holders will get
approximately 55 Electrolytics for every 100.
The proportion may be reduced slightly, for
Lyell is still paying the co.’s bills and in-
tends accepting one fully-naid Electrolytic
for every £ it spends until the Risdon crowd
takes over. Lyell also reserves the right to
take up 90,000 of the 150,000 cum. prefs.
under offer to Read-Rosebery. With Lipd-
say Tulloch dead, probably Bowes Kelly
could not infuse enough enthusiasm into the
Board-room to make its former scheme a
success. The passing of the group into
the hands of the Electrolytic Zinc consoli-
dates the Collins House monopoly of the
zinc industry.
Of course, the Electrolytic Zinc Co., with
its present nominal capital of a million, of
which £600,000 is paid, could not under-
take the purchase without reconstructing.
That co. is now to have a 2£ million register,
equally divided between 8 p.c. participating
cum. prefs. and ordinaries, both of £1 each.
The prefs., besides taking the first 8 p.c.,
are to share point for point with the ordi-
naries after the latter have had 8 p.c., and
the 350,000 ordinaries to be issued to Read-
Rosebery, as already mentioned, are not to
be eligible for divs. for five years. To pro-
vide capital to extend its works the Electro-
lytic directors propose to issue £1,050,000
of pref. capital; and, independently of the
Read-Rosebery scheme, they are now getting
in further ordinary capital. For the past
18 months the co. has been producing 15
tons of 99.95 p.c. zinc daily, and a 100-ton-
per-day plant is now well in hand.
* * * *
A Speck point of view:—
The combination will undoubtedly foster the Com-
monwealth’s zinc industry—at the expense of the
Speck. It is almost certain that with Read-Rosebery
tied to the Zinc Co., production at those mines will
be limited for some years to come. Roughly, 400
tons crudes per day will represent at Risdon 100
tons of electrolytic zinc, and these works are not
being laid out to cope with much more than this
quantity. That they will treat the dirty Rosebery
ore in preference to clean concentrates from Broken
Hill is not to be taken seriously. The tying-up of
this vast and rich West Coast ore deposit removes
any justification for State outlay in either the King
River or Lake Rolleston hydro-electric schemes. Tas-
mania cannot benefit to an extent worth recording
by the probable paltry 400 tons per day production
at the mines, particularly in view of the low price
contracted for the large block of power at the
Hobart works. When the works are completed and
working-to full capacity about 400 to 500 men may
find employment there, and that is a very small
number when compared with the labor requirements
of other power users.
* * * *
Kota and Tupai, Taiping (F.M.S.), are
twins from the Pratten-Newman-Larut
stable. They have issued their second lot
of accounts simultaneously, dressed alike, and
each infant has much about the same to
report about itself. There is a remarkable
similarity about them; but while Tupai with
its 18 million c. yds. of payable ground looks
heftier than Kota with its 17 millions, the
latter has more marrow in its bones: eight
millions of its yardage is lb. stuff, and the
remainder averages about fib., com-
pared with Tupai’s four millions going 11b.,
a further four millions fib., and the balance
of 10 millions about §lb. Each co. has
a paid capital of £50,000, of which £20,000
represents the interest Larut, the financing
parent, passed on in scrip to its share-
holders. Each has a £40,000 dredge on
order for delivery early next year, both have
arranged to put out 25,000 unissued shares
and to borrow £15,000 from the Malayan
Government to see them to the production
stage. During the past year a 12in. gravel-
pump was put to work on each area, but
Tupai’s plant operated for seven months,
treating 295,000 c. yd. for 89 tons oxide, and
resulting in a working loss of £1623 on
account of development exes., whereas Kota's
plant had been in commission only a few
days when the accounts closed. During
the current year Tupai’s plant has been
earning profits, but Kota’s, on account of
heavy water troubles, worked at a loss, so
the directors have sold the outfit, apparently
getting twice as much as they paid for it.
* * * *
Hampton Plains now shows smaller indi-
cations than ever of becoming the important
goldfield its boomsters said it would be. Inves-
tigation has proved the value of nine-tenths
of the discoveries to be either greatly exag-
gerated or wholly mythical. The only
gambles now left are the White Hope, Cele-
bration, Mutooroo, Golden Hope and two
or three others. Everything else on the field
appears to be rubbish. White Hope develop-
ments at 100 ft. have not so far been cheer-
ing, but it will take some time to definitely
prove, the mine. At this early stage, how-
ever, it looks as if the reef will be fairly
good in places, but values irregular. Hike
everything else on the Plains the show seems
to lack backbone, and but for having a sub-
stantial amount of cash in hand its shares
would not be worth much at present. Cele-
bration is similarly situated. Mutooroo has
patches of rich ore, and provided the stuff
goes dawn the co. may, by mixing the good
with the poor, ultimately earn something for
shareholders. The first crushing is to be
despatched to Kalgoorlie at an early date.
Golden Hope started off well, but at 75ft.
water held up further sinking until a plant
was obtained. There is a nice run of ore
opened up at that depth, and the new shaft
now being sunk is tipped to cut the lode-
at 100 ft. inside two months. Summed up.
the shoots on the field have, on the whole,
proved very treacherous.
# * » *
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) has taken up six
24-acre blocks east of the King of the Hills,
about 25 miles north of Leonora. Included
in the area is the Homeward Bound, run
by a small syndicate for a time. A 10-
head plant was put up, but the syndicate
had not done sufficient development work to
provide battery feed. The show is reputed
to possess a big ore body. The co. has also
secured an option qver the Grey Lode, about
three miles north of the Gwalia. Prospec-
tors have confined their attentions to a
small vein in a large green schist formation.
Some high values have been reported, but
the average value of tonnages so far re-
vealed is probably in the vicinity of 40s.
Further development is necessary to ascer-
tain whether size and grade are maintained.
* * * *
Between Boulder and Hampton Plains is
a small prospecting show known as the
Britannia, which has been boomed in Adel-
aide lately on the strength of a good crush-
ing and a few bags of specimen ore. But
has not all this stuff come from a rich patch
which shows little indication of permanence?
* * * *
Uruguay Hope has abandoned its holding
on Hampton Plaips, and has taken an option
on 100 acres near Maldon (Vic.).. From an
adjoining claim a recent crushing of 400 tons
is said to have yielded 2000 oz. of gold. The
reef is stated to be 15ft. wide, and Uruguay
Hope is its faith on the chances of
the shoot passing through its ground.
* * * *
“R. 8.” : Some of the croakers croaked too
early of Lass o’ Gowrie, Mt. Monger (W.A.).
Vendors and promoters voluntarily reduced
their price and extended the option, and the
new development from No. 2 shaft shows the
persistence in depth of the rich shoot on'
which the co. was floated. At 60 feet a
drive south on the lode showed 28ft. bulk-
ing 19dwt. 6gr. At 105 ft. the western cross-
cut was driven 15ft. and cut this lode, which
bulks loz. 12dwt. for the first 3ft. and 6oz.
4dwt. for the second 3ft. section, with
similar ore still in the face. Besides this,
No. 1 shaft has proved 30ft. in the west
crosscut worth sdwt., although the main ore
body has not yet been reached. This shaft
is in brown schist bulking 35dwt.
* * * * '
John Calvert has had a six-months’ go at
Sloane and Scotchman’s, Stawell (Vic.),
breaking stone from the big Diamond Drill
stope in the north end of the mine and get-
ting a fair lot of 6dwt. ore. With the mine
and plant in proper trim this grade ought
to pay at Sloane’s, but the battery needs
to be alongside the shaft and underground
facilities require to be brought up to date.
The “B” stope gives only 12s. stuff, and the
Extended stope to the south has proved
what a rotten reed it was to rest a boom
on. Still, Calvert believes better stuff is
ahead, and is out to follow up a laminated
run of ore 3ft. wide. If he gets decent
prospects it will be as well to let the bat-
tery talk rather than give pan results.
More interesting is the idea of jogging up
to 920 ft. in Sloane’s to test the upward
continuation of the old shoot of stone that
yielded big dividends when broken down
from 1000 ft. to the neighborhood of the
Diamond Drill make. The big job at
Sloane’s is to get the underground workings
into condition for cheaper work, and to de-
vise some method of treating the tailings,
besides securing better connection with the
battery. Also the co. has to unload these
debts: Banker, £9312; loans, £7058; Gov-
ernment advance, £2863; sundry creditors,
£1259. No wonder the show has to keep up
calls. Despite the gold yield of £5435
during the past six months shareholders had
to shell out £3276 to keep their scrip good.
Though Constellation continued to
brighten the Bendigo Amalgamated land-
scape, the most cheerful happening at Teddy
Dyason’s group during the past month was
the unusual one of labor passing a vote of
thanks to the management and wishing the
co. every success. Two years ago Bendigo
Amalgamated introduced a co-operative
«eheme which provides for employees get-
ting a cut of profits at the same time as
shareholders. A first distribution was made
to both parties on June 30, and general-
manager Arthur Moline reports that the dig-
gers received their portion with “lively
satisfaction,” while the “check inspector,”
elected by the men to watch their interests,
threw bouquets at the management in his
latest fortnightly report. Bendigo is pro-
bably the most contented mining-field in the
Commonwealth at the moment. During the
four weeks to July 13 the co. produced 7239
tons for 6593f0z. gold. Unity gave the
largest tonnage (2027), but its grade w T as
only 235. 6d. Constellation fiut out 1566
tons worth 210 s. per ton, and Carlisle 1087
tons worth 31s. That is Carlisle’s most pay-
able record for many a day, and Moline still
has hopes that this shaft will again become
a profit-winner.
* * * *
As Cathcart Victory (Vic.) was not
making headway on the Victory lead, George
Bryant was called in to advise. He thinks
the co. has worked into a run of wash to
the east of the Victory gutter, and advises
the spending of up to £2750 in testing it,
and in having a shot at the deep ground to
the west. Bryant is the deep-lead authority
at Ararat, so no doubt the money will be
forthcoming.
* * * »
Edward P. received a gift in Launceston
which no other State in Australia and pro-
bably no other part of the British Empire
could give him. This was a specimen of
osmiridium weighing about two grains put
up by the Launceston Stock Exchange. Of
the world’s supply of this metal, the Speck
produces over half.
(Continued on page 22.)


THE TARIFF WRECKERS.
"The Labor party 's prospeets are less bright, the Federal Cabinet having, it is understood, cemented its friendship with Farmers’ representatives by agreeing to consider their susceptibilities in connection with various lines of the tariff.”


English Leather Leggings
—THE NEW “HALF-PUTTEE” STYLE
English leggings have been unobtainable for some time. We are
now able to offer a small shipment introducing the new “Half-
Puttee” —more easily fastened than the old style. It has a patent
top-clip to prevent slipping and the strap buckles AT THE
BOTTOM. This is a well-sewn legging of special quality. The
leather is rich in color, well tanned, and finished in imitation of
pigskin.
Knee height, 13 inches. Sizes 13 to 17 calf.
PRICE 50/-
PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE.
Please state calf size.
PE APES & CO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
se
Miltonian
IT I H roll- CL ASS'
ISPEfIALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL RINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne. -
ts
E. DROWN @ SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL-OVER • THE • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management v.f Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
MINCHINBURY
“Jobber”: Mention of “Plevna” Ryan and
Dr. McWhae being so deadlv on. lead-
swingers, reminds me of how “Plevna” set
a trap for Foxybill and caught him. It was
at Weymouth, where Ryan sat between the
schemer and the homeward boat. Like
McWhae’s patient,
this bird was
swinging it on the
deaf stakes. After
a test the old doc-
tor marked him for
Aussie, after which
he told his prey to
wait in the adjoin-
ing room with the
others. Foxybill
waited, and about
an hour later, in
the failing light, a
friendly Digger
asked him how he
got on with “the
old inside.”
“Good-o,” said
Foxy. “I tricked
him.” Then he had
a good “screw” at
his questioner. It
was Ryan in a
Digger’s tunic’
“S’trutli!” gasped
Foxy, a “proper
gutser!” In less
than a fortnight he
was on the other
side. Does any Bil 1-
jim know a Bili-
jim who was abso-
lutely successful in
tricking Ryan? I was m Egypt from the
start, and heard of nothing but thuds.
* * -X- *
From the office’s Spiritual Adviser: —
The news of the death of Mrs. Cornwallis-West,
“a famous society beauty,” was cabled to Australia
a few days ago. She must have been close on 70.
Really a Statute of Limitations, such as that which
operates in regard to debts, should be applied to
these ladies. As a result of being continually assured
that they are still beauties they get to believe it
and act as such with disastrous results. During
the war Mrs. West had an affair of the heart with
a very youthful officer from which she emerged
bathed in that derision which every female earns
who pins her trust to a Joseph. If the society
papers had not entered into a conspiracy to give her
a wrong view of herself, she might have offered to
be a grandmother to the lad, and so averted a lot
of trouble. The Australian press is a notable
offender in this respect. With us any rich woman
who has had pretensions to good looks is a beauty
till the grave closes on her —provided she is civil
to the reporters. Her weight rises, or grotesquely
diminishes; pyorrhea takes its toll of her once
shapely teeth; her hair assumes strange hues; her
skin defies the overtime exertions of the massage-
artists. Yet she struggles on. Instead of developing
into a comfortable old party with a taste for Babies’
Homes, she becomes a Jezebel —an embarrassment
to callow males of her set; the prey of indigent
theatrical adventurers. If the editors combined to
refuse publicity to anyone who had figured as a
beauty for 20 years or over, they would do a good
turn to a misguided class, while advancing the
cause of that Higher Morality in whose promotion
all of us, layman and divine alike, are so deeply
interested.
“Home Again” : An exploration of Austra-
lian homes, and especially of Sydney homes,
leads to the inference that the average archi-
tect does not know his job. And since
apparently in this generation he cannot
learn his business otherwise, he should only
qualify to earn fees for house-planning by
serving terms as general servant, cook,
laundress, butler, waiter and chambermaid ;
then sore feet, lame backs, stiff legs and
weary arms might impress their significance
on his intelligence, so that he would realise
the folly of unwanted floor-space in
useless halls, passages and steps; the almost
universal erampiness of bathrooms and
lavatories; the wasteful absurdity of doors
where they are not required or a sliding
panel would serve; and the stupidity of a
roundabout carting of meals by hand three
or four times a day from kitchen to dining-
room, when a movable panel might make
almost direct connection between the two
apartments. But if the average planning of
living rooms is a disgrace to the profession,
the kitchens and laundries are tragedies.
Here stove, dresser, cupboards, sink, water-
supply and plate rack are regularly placed
so that the users may have as much tramp-
ing to and fro as possible. Even if we
cannot have the labor-saving devices that
are common in the U.S.A., we can have
carrying reduced without any expense at
all; and every movement means dust-
distribution, just as every corner and jim-
c-rack ornament is a dust-harbor. Once in
a thousand instances these ideas have
been more or less carried out in Australia.
Women know of them; but it requires maul
and wedges to drive them into the intelli-
gence of the house-building male.
* *, * *
An inside story of how the I.W.W. kept
going:—
The persistence with which the I.W.W. continued
to peddle its goods in the teeth of the bitterest
opposition, and in spite of a war-time feeling that
was dangerous to even disagree with, surely calls
for the admiration of even those who don’t agree
with its philosophy. Soon after the Law shut up
the Sydney headquarters, and took away the Direct
MORE PRIVILEGES OF THE RICH.
MALE: “Well, dearest, they can’t talk about
you—you seldom dress in bad taste.”
FEMALE: “Sweetest, I wouldn’t dare to-
you ain’t rich enough!”
Action press outfit, Betsy Mathias, a frail little
rebel, who now gets around Sydney on a stick,
jumped in, gathered a few of the true-blue around
her, formed the Industrial Labor Party, and began
an agitation for the men’s release. Her principal
weapon was Industrial Solidarity, of which defiant
little sheet copies were distributed as far out as a
railway-construction job in West Queensland. (That
job provided a fine illustration of what we call
“job propaganda”—concerts, lectures; four rebels
sacked, reinstated, paid for lost time; ganger
tramped; loud cheering by 300 plugs on the
return of the delegates after a 26-mile walk to
see the engineer.) Soon after the I.L.P. got going,
THE KNOCK-OUT.
“Did you make a hit with your husband in
that dress?”
“Hit? You should hare seen him when he
got the bill!”
the One Big Union Propaganda League hung out
its placard in Bourke-street, Melbourne, and branches
began business in Cairns, Brisbane and later Adel-
aide. In a little while Melbourne changed its label
to 1.1. W. (International Industrial Workers), and
pushed out its own monthly paper. Brisbane fol-
lowed suit, although most of its members were
in gaol over the Red Flag trouble—and incidentally
were improving gaol conditions. However, the few
“outside.”,, changed the name to 1.1. W., and got all
fhe matter ready for the first issue of The Rank and
Fide, a most ambitious thing with colored cover
and lots of cartoons; but no Brisbane printer would
go it, although the money was right. Meanwhile,
there had been a sudden influx of new members into
the Sydney I,L.P. The name of this, too, was
altered to 1.1. W., and Stanley West, about the best
of the rebel journalists, and a lad named Frank
Callinan, pushed out seven issues of The Prole-
tariat. But funds ran out, and the editor and his
staff were next heard of west of Bourke. Later Mel-
bourne and Cairns fizzled out, and Brisbane with its
last few quid sent W'. Jackson up north with a
fully-equipped lantern-lecture and all the literature
it had. Adelaide remains on deck and still hands
out Industrial Solidarity every month. The mem-
bership kept (with some sympathetic assistance) the
gaoled men’s dependants, and also stuck to and advo-
cated its philosophy until unemployment and vic-
timisation silenced it. And it did attempt to set
up a structure to bridge the gap between revolution
(which from our point of view is inevitable) and
reconstruction (which is uncertain), and based its
scheme not on any theories, but on the historical
development of capitalised industry.
“Spare Corp”: The gratuity (which Aus-
tralia still owes, by the way) is melting in
some queer pots. An ex-Digger who isn’t
married, and only knows the people with
whom he is staying through renting a room
from them, has installed a piano in their
house. He paid £5O on it in order to get
his gratuity cashed; and if he is as casual
as he seems he will leave the instrument
with his temporary hosts when his money
has gone like the snows of. yester-year.
Another warrior bought up a litter from a
dog-fancier who had given him half a crown
when he was hard-up ; and I judge that the
business of giving the pups away to people
who don’t want them is expensive. When
I refused a proffered prize he bought me
two drinks, and later on .surreptitiously
deposited the animal in my wastepaper-
basket.
* * * *
A lady who bowed to a magistrate in a
Sydney court the other day is accused of
having married one gent, on January 3 and
a second on January 27. It is also alleged
that she took No. 2 to the little township
where No. 1 was residing—-presumably to
introduce them. But this doesn’t equal the
record of another Sydney dame who married
three men in a week, two of them on suc-
cessive days. But, unaccountably enough,
she omitted to introduce them.
* * * *
“Hamer”: That story of the divorced hus-
band who returned to celebrate the jubilee of
the wedding day (B. 29/7/’2O) recalls an
odd romance still talked of in Newtown
(N.S.W.). In that case a woman divorced
her husband for desertion, though as she
had taken action only after a lapse of years
the Judge was very doubtful about granting
the decree. She subsequently married a
bearded person who had been boarding with
her for a couple of years, and had lived with
her on terms of amity until the marriage.
In process of time he also deserted, leaving
behind a bitter letter in which he mentioned
that he was the original deserter disguised
in a strange name and unaccustomed hair.
Thus concealed he had played with his own
children and made love to his own wife;
and his last word was that she was a woman
who could get along with anyone but her
husband. Which sage observation is true
of several women.
“Mellish Reef”: The cancellation of the
Prince’s visit to Rabaul is filling the Pacific
air with sighs. Even
the mission ladies
were getting up pretty
dresses and hats. The
Administrator had
made his arrange-
ments to fetch in all
the luluais (chiefs)
from the surrounding
districts and islands
to see H.R.H. The
Germans used to tell
the natives that the
son of the Kaiser was
coming up to visit
thm. The actual visit
of the British Prince
with his great war
canoes would have
done a lot for the
prestige of the Brit-
isher, and, I think,
saved Australia a lot
of money in the long run.
An individual whose wife had suffered in
a train accident put his case before a Mel-
bourne Judge and jury with a request that
the Railway Commissioners should be asked
to part up £lOO. The main item in the
count was that he had been deprived for
some weeks of the lady’s “society” while
she was recovering from the effects of the
disaster. The jury didn’t quite know what
to make of it. The lawyer for the defence
said it was a “dishonest” claim; and he
more than suggested that the man who was
relieved of his wife’s society for a few
FULLY EMPLOYED.
“And how about employment, Digger—a re
you kept well at it?”
“Yep. Got all the work I want just at pre-
sent.”
“I'm so glad. What are you doing?”
“Trying to cash my gratuity at somewhere
near value.”
weeks might have as much reason to bless
the Railway Department as to curse it.
Judge Dethridge weighed the thing up impar-
tially, and advised the jury “as men of the
world” to say whether they thought it was
a case for monetary compensation or not.
As men of the world they thought it over
and decided that it wasn’t.
“Spare Adme” : Arthur was the son of a
sheet-iron worker, and his thoughts walked
in blucher boots. We halted in the middle
of the Mesopotamian desert after an all-
night march. It was about 150 degrees in
the sun, and the horses were showing signs
of a 24-hour drought. “We’ll give ’em a
drink at that mirage when we reach it,” said
Trooper Legpull, one eye on Arthur. Our
bright boy took the bait solemnly. “You’d
better not,” he said ; “the Tommies had 19
horses poisoned at one of them.”
* * * *
“Gunner”: Among the personages pre-
sented to H.R.H. during his Queensland
tour were a brace of fellow-royalties the
Queen of the Ivaruah blacks and her son the
Crown Prince. The latter, a frail youth
who would have had no difficulty in snaring
an R.Y.A. badge, served with credit in the
A.I.F. (infantry) and lost a leg. Our
abos.. by the way. together with the Maoris
and the French Senegalese, were the only
colored warriors who could be depended upon
to stand up properly to shell-fire.
EMPTY STOMACHS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Come and watch the ebb-tide flow—
Down the steps, and on they go;
One broad wave, a shaken hive,
Seeking trains at half-past five;
Empty stomachs, large and round,
Small and hollow, homeward bound
Empty stomachs, all, I see,
By their hunger held in thrall;
Hustling, bustling home to tea,
Like a turgid waterfall.
See them thronging. In the street
Workers grimed and shoppers meet;
Well the streams their confines keep
Where the empty stomachs sweep ;
Brown flood in an even tide,
Six feet deep and sixty wide;
Empty stomachs slack and glum,
From the factories and stores—
Congregated vacuum
That all nature so abhors.
In the people’s straining eyes
Is no pleasure, no surprise;
Nothing do those eyes express,
And the faces tell you less;
They are things that starkly stare,
Which all-mastering stomachs bear—•
Eager, empty stomachs drawn
Where the steaming viands swell;
Vegetables, bread and brawn—
Magnets irresistible!
Homing thousands, all obsessed
By a craving ’neath the vest;
Rolling in the subways dim,
Silent, secret, subtle, grim.
In the morning, flowing past,
Fresh from breaking of the fast,
All is chatter; now the stream
Babbles not. So, closely viewed.
Empty stomachs panthers seem,
Velvet-footed after food !
victoria.
DIDO.


1L
'A
When the little folks are “Croupy,” and
fretted by coughing fits, wise mothers
know that Bonnington’s Irish Moss will
not be thrust peevishly aside by little
hands, and called nasty medicine.
w .JESS'* and Palatable
—little people will take
it readily, and soon
be restored to nor-
mal health.
IRISH MOSS,
11 ■'■>=! “.e:
SOLiD EVERYWHERE.
8A.25.
K&SaHR
M 33
. S.NOI9NINNOB
ILOT7
Federal Motor Trucks are Built for Hard Work.
They at once give the impression that they were built specially to give that sturdy
dependable year-in and year-out service which has permanently established their
success. Ten years of manufacture and seven years of satisfactory use in New
South Wales have placed them in the vanguard in the world of motor vehicles.
OErtCDAI
la
Messrs. Sargents, Ltd., the well-known caterers of Sydney, write
"We have been using five (5) FEDERAL. S for upwards of six years. The oldest
is still in daily use, and on recently being overhauled no appreciable wear was
noticed on any of the gears and bearings. The mileage done by this particular
FEDERAL is over 100,000 miles, and it is considered to be as good to-day as the
day it was purchased. Our fleet of EEDERALS has given complete satisfaction as
regards service, dependability and economy.”
Made in 1 ton, I£, 2, 3| and 5 ton sizes.
SOLE AGENT—
H. W. CROUCH, 26-2* Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
Apparently Cocky’s interests are so badly
watched that where there is business to be
done for him or with him there is loot to
be had. Hence the scandals that have
occurred almost everywhere in connection
with the handling of Australian wheat since
the war started. Adelaide has just had
another sniff—Adelaide, which prides itself
(with some reason) on its old-fashioned up-
rightness. For a couple of years past
.Noel Webb has been inquiring off and on,
as a Commissioner, into the whole business
in that State; and now he throws this
bomb:—
I find generally that Vardon [Wheat Scheme secre-
tary] was allowing Mcßride [representative of a
private firm] to make large and improper profits
out of his dealings with the Wheat Scheme, and that
Vardon was actuated by some motive which has not
been disclosed.... I find that the Oamira transaction
was a fraud on the Scheme, and that Mcßride, Var-
don and Walker [branch manager for the Scheme]
were parties to this fraud. It is very difficult to
imagine how this fraud could have been carried on
without Fisher’s connivance. [Fisher was another
branch manager.] But, if I assume that he did not
know the details of the transaction, it is my duty
to find that he was guilty of culpable negligence....
The evidence shows unquestionably that Fisher con-
nived at the fraud which Brimage [still another
branch manager] was perpetrating on the Scheme.
....I have no doubt that sums of money which were
drawn by Mcßride out of the bank, ana the records
of which he has erased and altered, were used for
purposes which he has never explained and desired
HE DIDN’T WANT TO SWANK.
“Hi, grandma, don’t make me too flash —
they might think I'm the Prince and you
Queen Mary.”
to hide. It is certain that two sums of these moneys
were drawn for the purpose of paying for two suits
of clothes presented by Mcßride to two officials of
the Scheme So far as Walker is concerned, there
is not a single word of his evidence on which I can
place reliance. I am convinced that there is no
falsehood he would not tell in order to try and pre-
vent the discovery of the actual facts with regard
to the transactions between Mcßride and officials of
the Wheat Scheme.
The Scriptures knew when they said with
an utter disregard for grammar: “Where the
eockies is there will the eagles be gathered
together.”
If his luck is out, the careless person with
a shotgun needn’t point at the victim and
say playfully “I’ll shoot you!” Two brothers
were out together at Telowie (S.A.). One
of them had to drop his gun—or thought he
had—to stop a cow that was bolting. He
dropped it behind him, thinking so to be
safe; but the accursed thing picked out the
only other human being in sight, his brother,
a full 35 yards away, and (as described at
the inquest) “riddled him with shot from
the chin to the knees.”
A NEAR GUESS.
“When will the end of the world he, mum?”
“No one can tell, dear”
“I know, mum! When God stops sending more bahics.”
“F.R.”: The war was responsible for
many old, well-known vessels finishing up
dramatically at sea, instead of quietly rust-
ing away in the peaceful backwater of some
harbor, with no one but the night watchman
to soothe their last moments. One of these
was the old Warrimoo, built for the Union
Steamship Co. in 1892. At the
time of her end she had been
sold to the Chinese firm of Tin
Kah Ivee, and was running
Chinese labor from Cochin
China to Marseilles. She left
Bizerta (Tunis) under French
escort on May 18, 1918. Dur-
ing the night one of the escort-
ing destroyers ran ahead of the
convoy—which was doing 15
knots —-and stopped for some
reason or other. The Warri-
moo, coming on blindly, smote
her on the quarter, turned her
over, and emptied all her depth-
charges overboard. These im-
mediately exploded and blew
the bottom out of the old Union
boat, which sank in 20 minutes.
There were 1700 persons on
board, but only one life was
lost, and a post mortem showed that
he died from shock. There was plenty
of it. A dozen depth-charges arguing the
point under a ship are like a trip across
cobbles on a square-wheeled bike.
* * * *
From a Southern laboratory:—
There are signs of a movement in medicine which
may put an end to the craze for operations. The
growing realisation of the vital part played by
various glands and their secretions in the economy
of the body" is evidence of a return to the saner
idea that the use of the knife should be the last
resort instead of the first. It is being realised
more and more, too, that comparative anatomy has
still a great deal to teach us about ourselves.
Nature has tried infinite experiments, and it seems
only reasonable that from an exhaustive study of
these man can learn a great deal about the control
of conditions in his own case. In this connection
the Australian fauna is particularly valuable. It
preserves a very primitive form of iife, and at the
same time one in which there are a lot of tentative
experiments along ‘lines developed more fully later
in man. So convinced is he that there is much yet
to be done in this field that Dr. Colin MacKenzie,
of Melbourne, a Fellow of the Royal College of
Surgeons and a man with a wide reputation, has
established an Australian Institute of Comparative
Anatomy, and devoted himself to working out the
various problems offered by the Australian fauna,
So far no excitement about his work has been shown
in this country, but the results already published
are attracting attention in London and the United
States. Indeed, if things go on as at present the
results will probably have to be published in future
by the Wister Institute, in Philadelphia, which is
specialising heavily in marsupial research. Dr. Mac-
Kenzie is now off to London to take the pulse of
things there.
In his passion for details Knibbs has dis-
covered that 15 sets of triplets were born in
Australia last year, and that there was one
case of quadruplets. The mother of the
quadruplets (all boys) was a South Austra-
lian, aged 36. In the triplet section seven
fathers and five mothers were raised in Vic-
toria, which State will probably quote the
fact in the prospectus of its next London
loan ; morebver, one of the fathers was 54
and his partner in productivity 43. Nine
of the other ladies were 30 and upwards. Of
twins there were 1311 cases, and in 97 of
them the long-haired parents were beyond
the “dangerous age,” so-called by the Scandi-
navian novelist ; one was 48 and another 47.
Of the gentlemen 42 were between 50 and 60,
three between 60 and 70, and the veteran of
the party, a Ma Stater married to a brisk
young matron of 33, owned to 77. But in
the single-birth division a girl-child had for
parents a mother of 24 and a father of 81,
and the doyen of the Commonwealth’s pro-
genitors was a Queenslander, mtat 83. All
the heroes weren’t at the war.
The S.A. Supreme Court has been making
it clear that you don’t get cast in damages
for libelling a man —only for publishing
the libel; and you don’t publish the libel
if you only throw the mud in the man’s
own face. Nathan Solomons, mayor of
Norwood, and M. J. Solomon, leader of the
Jewish community in Adelaide, met to assist
a third Hebrew, whose trouble was, the
Mayor suggested, due to harsh treatment by
a fourth, now dead. M.J., as an old friend
of the dead man, fiercely resented this, and
wrote insulting letters to Nathan. Cleland,
K.C., for the defence in a libel action, did
not defend the letters, but claimed that they
were not “published.” They were meant for
the eye of Nathan only; that Nathan junior
had authority to open his father’s correspon-
dence was a chance that could' not be fore-
seen, And the Court agreed, though at
least one of the letters struck the Chief
Justice as ‘“a scandalous production, entirely
discreditable, and absolutely without foun-
dation.” But as there was no publication
there could be no verdict for the plaintiff
and no damages.
* * * *
Easily the biggest draw in the Melbourne
Courts last week was the lady whose wed-
ding was interrupted at the death-knock, and
who asked for £499 damages from the inter-
rupter. It was a story in which the late
Mr. Garvice would have delighted, though
only an Elinor Glyn could have done it jus-
tice. The bride (aged 35) had got her
soldier-boy (aged 24) to church. The par-
son was waiting on the steps, and the rela-
tives were in attendance wearing their best
clothes and their most expansive smiles.
Then on the scene broke a shrill, protesting
voice—the voice of the youthful bridegroom’s
mother—-declaring that the marriage must
not be, and making reflections on the would-
be bride of a nature that no lady would
appreciate. The' ceremony was put off, and
has never taken place. Nor is it likely to.
The action for damages was the next step
in the series. That failed, and failed badly,
after the character of the plaintiff had been
raked fore and aft. Having lost a hus-
band it was bad policy to throw a reputa-
tion after him.
“Broken Boots” : I haven’t any more money
to go to the races with, but I’m glad to see
that the pony-flogging industry still flour-
ishes ; it should improve the breed of book-
makers. Entries are now so numerous that the
sprinting weeds have to be set going long
before lunch-time. One Sydney suburban
course started its first race at 10.30 a few
weeks ago. Prizes of individual races are
so small that the struggling owner, trainer,
jockey, “betting commissioner” and so forth
can’t even pretend to get a living honestly out
of the game. When Dead Finish is properly
tuned up, a punter with spare cash has to
be sought for. Then the gamblers rush at
the ring and back Dead Finish down to the
last quid. There is a suspicion that occa-
sionally as much as 7s. 9d. is distributed to
owners of opposing weeds to induce them
to run stiff. But even this sort of racing,
poor as it is, requires at least a moderately
fast animal. Hopeful owners of honest,
plodding mokes that gallop home with the
crowd are driven to all sorts of shifts to
keep in the game. One owner has been com-
pelled to go to work three days a week as a
builder’s laborer in order to earn feed for a
brute that can’t earn' it for himself. And
here I think I see a way to utilise the pony-
racing frenzy and reduce the house shortage.
Let the State give every builder’s laborer a
racing pony.
Finger-prints have uses that the police
don’t always relish. Lately Victorian morn-
ing papers starred the arrest of. two men on
a charge of vagrancy, but implied that they
were really detained because things looked
black against them regarding the mailbag
robbery between Macedon and Woodend.
The detectives, who had been stirred up by
a country constable, met the two poor devils
half-way between Woodend and Melbourne,
AND HE’S STILL WONDERING.
THE GIRL: “ You mustn’t come into my dress-
ing-room.”
THE MAN: “ Why not? Am I not good
enough?”
THE GIRL: “ You might be worse!
and took them in a motor-car to town.
Finger-print records were swiftly turned up
—and then it was discovered that the two
men had escaped from Castlemaine Gaol
nearly 24 hours after the robbery took place.
NURSERY RHYME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ah, the nursery rhyme that I’m singing to you
Is a sad little song with a sob running through ;
But, thank Heavens, your ears can’t hear sobs for a
while,
So you sit there and crinkle your nose and you smile,
And you laugh at the joke 1 am singing to you—•
The joke of the woman who lived in a shoe!
Then chuckle and crow though my voice should die
down
When I think of the sad women all round the town
Who lived in a shoe and became dull and grey
As their happy young children all vanished away :
Of the sad, weary women with lines round their eyes,
Who sit in their shoes and are terribly wise.
Let no sigh spoil the lilt of the merry old song.
But, hush! the grey women find nights cold and long.
With life stealing off with their youngsters for all —
The babies they knew grown eager and tall,
And filling their brains with new hopes and alarms.
And leaving grey mothers with lean, hungry arms.
The days they are empty—l’m whispering low.
For you can’t understand and I’m glad it is so ;
There is sorrow enough for your heart in the years,
And you’re young yet to drink of the old women's
tears;
But the tears they are there in the cry in the rhyme,
But, hush i and, oh, hush! you will know it in time.
There was an old woman who lived in a shoe,
Her children were many, so what could she do?
Ah, the jest is a good one, and so chuckle on,
But what of the mothers whose children are gone ?
Yes, what of the mothers who’ve bred from their
bone,
And are weeping, heigh, ho! and are living alone?
VICTORIA.
DALE COLLINS.


THE
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees.
New South Wales: Victoria : Queensland
The only Trustee Company having
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Maekellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Hon. H. Y. Braddon,
M.L,C., F. B. S. Falkiner, James Kidd, W. H.
Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan Sinclair.
V. G. WATSON, JOHN MAIR,
Assistant Manager. Manager.
wn
DEAF?
You can HEAR
by sending for an
Acoust/con
ON 10 DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
IN YOUR OWN HOME.
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
Over 330,000 delighted users, includ-
ing the Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes,
who has been using the Acousticon for
more than five years.
The Acousticon will safely and surely
check your increasing deafness and
enable you to hear.
Lamson
Store
Service
t lO2 Daklngr House, SYDNEY
v - Olderfleet, Collins St., MELB.
N.Z.: John Procter, 200 High St., Chrtitc’h.
W.A.: H. Little & CoBsl Hay Street, Perth.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA. /
CHARHING ROOF GARDEN.
Management P. T. CHEKSEMAN.
SGEWO%
** EXTRA HIGH GRADE 4 *
SMOKING TOBACCO
Sliced Plug or Ready-Rubbed
is the Original Tobacco of
this style.
Does not bite the tongue.
In tins from all Tobacconists.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
The late J. A. Hogue’s career might have
been embodied in a chapter of “Self-Help”
by Samuel Smiles. He was a successful man
in every sense of the word, and more ver-
satile than most men. A journalist for half
a century, he was sub-editor of Sydney
Evening News for five years and editor for
ten ; an M.P. for 16 years, he was included
in two Cabinets, and found time to be the
Ma State’s champion bowler and the best
billiardist in Parliament. He was a capital
musician, and his wife brought him 10
children, all of whom were alive when the
veteran was 72. And then, in the space of
a few months, the Angel of Death swooped
down and took the twins, Amy and Oliver
(“Trooper Bluegum”), and the saddened old
man felt that the tide had begun to run
out.
W. A. Holman is now legally entitled to
sport the flower of a blameless life. At the
Hotel Australia last week the Order of the
White Rose of Finland was hung round his
neck by the courtly and athletic Consul-
General for the Republic that roosts on the
northernmost perch of Europe, and a rep-
resentative and well-fed company of his
fellow-citizens saw the deed done. Looking
the picture of health and speaking with all
the old velvety smoothness, the ex-Premier
described himself as “a wreck,” and before
the audience had regained its composure he
added —“with some possibilities of salvage
in another profession.” Then everybody
looked relieved.
Arthur S. Rodgers, the new member of
the Hughes Cabinet, should add something
to the cheerfulness of the Cabinet room. He
is an incurable optimist, with a ready and
illuminating smile. Round-faced and curly-
haired, with the mien of one who sleeps well
o’ nights, he is convinced that everything
is for the best with this best of all Gov-
ernments. He has made a success of farm-
ing, and has less need of the £lOOO a year
than most people. A hesitating and ineffec-
tive speaker when he got into Parliament
seven years ago, he has improved with prac-
tice, and can now spruik with the best of
them. He is perhaps the nearest thing to
a farmers’ representative among the straight-
out supporters of Hughes.
A. _S. Rodgers, member for Wannon, who
has joined Hughes as Assistant-Minister
(Cook goes to the Treasury vice Watt, and
Laird Smith takes over Cook’s job at the
Navy), will be a
sort of set-off to
General Ryrie.
Educated at
Xavier, Kew, Rod-
gers has a soft
corner in his heart
for anyone with
S.J. to his name.
After associating
with Rodgers per-
haps Ryrie will
tone down, as J. B.
Patterson did after
having Bryan
O’Loghlen as an
Attorney - General
for six months.
E. B. GRUNDY,
K.C., Adelaide.
Dead in Sydney at 75, and buried in
Waverley Cemetery, Thomas Michael Slat-
tery, than whom no man had played more
parts in the life of Sydney. The son of a
cordwainer and schooled at old St. Mary’s
he was suburban town clerk, auctioneer, Cus-
toms clerk, Supreme Court clerk, then Pro-
thonotary. Retiring from the N. S. Wales
public service he was admitted as a solici-
tor, became a partner of Louis Heydon, and
did a large business. (It used to be said
that no other man could prove an alibi half
so easily as Tom Slattery.) Paddy Crick
was one of his pupils. Dipping into politics
he represented Burrowa in seven Parlia-
ments (1880-95), and was Minister for Mines
and for Justice and Chairman of Committees.
After that he was an M.L.C. —till his seat
was vacated under Sec. 10 of the Constitu-
tion Act. He left the law to become an
estate agent; had a couple of slow racers,
fell under the ill-luck of the Tyson millions,
visited the United States in the interests of
Australian meat, and might easily have be-
come a millionaire but for the war. A
Knight of St. Gregory, and one of the two
most-talked-of politicians of his day, he
passed out almost forgotten.
The late Bill Hamilton saw more of his
native country than most Australians do
in the course of his 62 years. Born at Mel-
bourne, he spent his boyhood on the Mclvor
Creek goldfield, crossed the Murray and
became a shearer, and worked his way up
to the Queensland border. The Croydon
rush lured him to the Gulf Country ; thence
he crossed over to Kimberley (W.A.) in
the wake of the Ragged Thirteen, and when
Kimberley petered out he wandered back to
Queensland by way of Broken Hill. In
1899 he got a steady job as Labor member
For Gregory, and remained in it till the
Ryan Government made him President of
the Legislative Council, vice Arthur Morgan,
deceased. Bill Hamilton was an Australian
of the old school, and to do a mate a good
turn was the bigger part of his religion.
The average “centenarian” is a quaver-
ing ancient with a bad memory and no birth
certificate. Twenty-four of them passed
over in Australia
during 1919, but
the Commonwealth
Bureau of Statis-
tics explains
cautiously that “no
attempt has been
made to verify
their ages.” How-
ever, no doubt
hovers about thd
years of Thomas
White, of Young
(N.S.W.), who has
gone on the long
track at 101. Tas-
manian born, he
was a N. S. Wales
pastoralist most of
his life, and never
consulted a doctor
till he was past
100. He was a
nephew of James
White, owner of
Chester, Abercorn
and other famous
steeds.
CANON HART.
the new Dean of
Melbourne.
Towards sundown on Monday Lieut. Ray
Parer, of Victoria, and Lieut. Mclntosh, of
Westi|aliia, jstepped out of a dingy and
patehed-up little aerobus at Darwin, and
mentioned that when they left London it
was still in the same old spot. They had
been nearly seven months coming, but struck
a succession of heartbreaking misfortunes,
and only men of rare pluck and resource
would have got through. Parer is the son
of a Spanish restaurateur in Melbourne, ,and
has classical Castilian features himself. In
fact, he is a living illustration of a recent
Bulletin contributor’s argument that
the Spaniard is nearly as good an immigrant
as Australia could get.
In Perth recently died Fred Murphy, poet
“Dryblower’s” elder brother and double.
Photography was his business, and he was
responsible for the most-discussed sun-
picture in Australia’s sporting history: the
instantaneous photograph that showed Tim
Swiveller interfering with Sainfoin in the
1893 Caulfield Cup. He was a versatile
musician, likewise, and could say a humor-
ous thing when in the mood. A party of
more or less impecunious instrumentalists,
of whom Murphy was one, was being enter-
tained by a pafron of the arts named Adair.
The pianist, a person without shame,
“touched” his host for a fiver. “And now,”
he said, “we’ll have a little music—what
shall I play ?” “Play ‘Robin Adair’ ” sug-
gested Fred Murphy.
To-morrow (August 6) Farmer Massey
concludes his fifth year as Prime Minister
of Maoriland. Only Dick Seddon has
beaten this long run. And Richard didn’t
have a war to help him.
Alfred White, dead at Linwood (M.L.),
aged 97, was the veteran bookseller of Aus-
tralasia. He was in the trade at Tun-
bridge Wells (Eng.) before shifting to the
Dominion in 1862. The land attracted him
for a few years at Portobello, but later he
opened a book-store in Christchurch,, and
swept up authors with a feather-duster for
40 years.
S. Aus. still thinks it has the best-drilled
mounted police in the Commonwealth, and
Isaac Thomas was one of the instructors
who made it so. He was an old Hussar
(11th), who, after serving in India and
Abyssinia, came on to Adelaide; for years
he was the State’s crack swordsman. Among
the sons who went to his funeral the other
day was Ron, the tennis-player who helped
to win the world’s double championship at
Wimbledon last year.
There is a tradition in the N. S. Wales
Public Service —and it was afterwards passed
on to the Commonwealth ditto —that, though
just-retired Nicholas Lockyer reached the
top of the ladder, climbing rung after rung
at an incredibly early age, he never applied
for a new job: promotion every time was
pushed at him. The biggest compliment of
the kind he ever got was when George Reid
was looking for a Chief Commissioner of
Taxation. He consulted _the heads of de-
partments, asking them to suggest the best
man for the position in the public service,
and every one of them nominated Lockyer.
Captain Press, a veteran Port Phillip
pilot, died at Canterbury (Vic.) the other
day, aged 76. Press had been in the service
for 26 years, retiring in 1909, and in still
earlier days had done a good deal of yacht-
ing. Also he was an industrious painter,
producing innumerable windy seascapes that,
when exhibited in quantity, almost created
a draught.
A birthday of musical importance is that
of Frederick Morley, who has completed
the three-score and ten. Morley hails from
Cambridge (England) and was an accom-
plished organist at 14. Coming to Australia
lie made music in half a dozen Sydney and
suburban churches, and has held a job at
St. John’s, Darlinghurst, since 1885. His
three brothers are capital instrumentalists,
and a son has established a reputation in
U.S.A.
There’s no shrinking modesty about Kid-
man the cattle king. Replying at Colombo
to a resolution of the Broken Hill R.S.L.
he remarked that he had “done more for
the Returned Soldiers’ Association and for
returned soldiers personally, financially and
otherwise than any other man in the States” ;
and “I will please myself whether I bring
returned soldiers to Australia, and will not
be dictated to by you,” he added as a post-
script.
“Gallery”: Frank Brennan, M.H.R., has
a sharp tongue that stirs the Government
more than all the fi blunt abuse of his col-
leagues. He sits back shooting nasty little
witticisms wrapped in nicely-tailored over-
coats. He said the other day that he had
always striven to model his manners on
those of the late Lord Chesterfield, and sug-
gested that Joe Cook in yelling out “Insult-
ing brute!” to him might have been indulg-
ing the popular habit of talking to himself.
Nationalist members visibly writhe under
Brennan’s irony, and they are the angrier
because they haven’t a man to outmatch
him. In the last Parliament there was Willie
Kelly, though Willie was often too busy
disorganising his own side with some clever
flights of Beerbohmish mockery.
Beyond his salary of £3OO a year as an
M.P. Donald Mackinnon draws nothing for
administering the Vic. Lands Department as
Assistant-Minister for Lands. Common-
wealth Assistant-Ministers collect £lOOO
each as M’s.P. and about (£5OO each from the
Ministerial pool.
“Narrung”: Many years ago, when I was
young enough to know no better, I col-
lected autographs, among them that of Dr.
“Chinese” Morrison, who concluded with this
warning:—
Would you learn a good lesson that’s taught by a
Boxer,
You’d neither collect, nor add to your stock, sir.
It’s good advice wasted on the incorrigible
collector. S. A. Thomas, of Adelaide, whose
fine library was recently offered for sale in
Sydney, has started off scratch again, and is
snapping up bargains with all his old zest.
The thing is understandable —if you collect.
Three years ago I sold nearly 600 books—
half a 20 years’ collection —swearing to buy
no more. When they were offered for sale
a week later I bought several back again,
and have since made up the lost quota.
“Centurion” yards some black sheep:—
At the beginning of the centuiry the Earl of
Clancarty—he who has just been awarded three
months’ gaol in London—was esteemed one of the
most brilliant young wasters about London. He
was then Viscount Dunlo, and ran in a team with
young Wertheimer, son of the art-collector, and
Marmaduke Wood, one of the offshoots of an old
Norfolk family. Marmy spent his later years jaeke-
rooing in Sou’-West Queensland. Phil May immor-
talised the trio in “The Parson and the Painter,”
where they appear in several of the big drawings,
notably the one of the National Sporting Club bar.
After that Dunlo did the sensible thing and married
Belle Bilton, and till her death from cancer a
couple of years ago she did her best to keep him
from sliding down hill. The loss of her seems t,o
have been his finish. Like the Clanmorrises and
the Clanricardes, the Clancartys have been noted
for amiable eccentricities. One Clanmorris and his
brother toured the Bananaland country races in
the early ’eighties with a string of alleged race-
horses. In dress and manners they had nothing
to learn from the regular members of the profes-
sion they adopted. The earl-to-be wound up his
Bananaland career by proposing to half a dozen
girls at a Government House ball. Recollecting
next morning that he had been accepted by all
of them, he faded out of the picture. Brisbane
still contains one or two of the might-have-been
countesses.
When things get tedious in the House of
Reps, and members troop outside in search
of diversion, one unfailing method of brighten-
ing up the dull routine is to remark, in the
hearing of a tribune who is verra Scotch,
that Prince Charlie was a poor old Pre-
tender. Promptly comes the reply, in a
voice like a woun-
ded pibroch. “He
was nae Pretender!
He was the right-
fu’ heir to the
British throne, an’
I can prove it tae
y’.” And then fol-
lows a spirited
argument which
lasts till somebody
suggests that it is
time for refresh-
ments. The en-
thusiastic Jaco-
bite (paradoxically
enough he is fier-
cely loyal to the
House df Windsor)
has accumulated
vast masses of
Stuartist lore, and
has been threaten-
ing for years to
perpetrate a book.
J. D. MILLEN,
the new Senator
from Tasmania.
Percy Chinnery. who lias gone at the
head of an expedition to New Guinea,
financed by a rich Englishman whom the
Victorian met in London after doing his
bit in the air and elsewhere, is an old
Papuan, although still a young man. He
went from Melbourne as a youth to an
official job in the island, and there developed
a passion for anthropology and a capacity
for handling Brown Brother that lifted him
into a magisterial position in the most-dis-
tant districts, where often for six months
at a stretch he never saw a white face. From
his fastnesses he poured paragraphs into The
Bulletin, serving a literary apprentice-
ship that was useful to him abroad, where
he contributed articles on Papua and
Papuans to the solid magazines. These
attracted attention, and led to the forming
of the present expedition, which is scientific,
social and commercial. “Chin” married in
England, and his first-born happened along
a few days after his departure for the island.
About a score of claimants, many of them
wildly impossible, have been put forward for
the title of the first white child born in
Tasmania. From a list given by Lieutenant-
Governor Collins it appears that the real
Simon Pure was George Kearley, son of a
marine, who was born at Hobart Town on
July 14, 1804. Either he dr Catherine
Potlaskee, who was born on board the Ocean
on February 17, 1804, as the vessel lay in
Risdon Cove, and before the passengers were
landed.
In London recently Lord Sholto Douglas
got a share of the limelight that his brother
Alfred has hitherto monopolised, being
divorced from Lady Sholto, a Californian,
for the usual thing. The noble petitioner
confided to the Court that he had married
the lady under the name of Montgomery to
avoid publicity, “as there were some rather
sensational cases in which members of my
family were concerned about that time”; he
mentioned, also, that the co-re. was named
Palmer “and quite impecunious.” Lord
Sholto spent a year or two on the Westralian
goldfields in the roaring ’nineties. He
dabbled in mining, and was supposed to
have an interest in a Coolgardie hotel, but
found the oof-bird an elusive fowl.
“Albatross” introduces two mermaids: —
Shipmasters in days gone by occasionally mar-
ried women who were not content to wait ashore
while their husbands roamed the world. They
accompanied their men, bore them children at sea,
and generally did their best to prevent hubby from
feeling lonely afloat or frivolous in strange ports.
In a recent par I mentioned the Harriet McGregor,
of Hobart. Captain Leslie, who commanded the
McGregor for many years, always carried his wife
with him on his voyagles; and four of his six
children were born on board the little bluegum
battler. Harriet McGregor Leslie, his eldest daughter,
first came on deck in the London Docks; Alex.
McGregor Leslie was born on the Derwent (Tas.) ;
Robert William Leslie first opened his eyes on
salt water in the N.-E. trades; Agnes Mary Leslie
was born within sight of the Scilly Islands —St.
Agnes and St. Mary are two dots of the group.
It was of the same ship, by the way, that Captain
Evans, father of Jacky, Speaker of the Tasmanian
Assembly, was for a good many years skipper. But
though Jacky was often aboard he wasn’t born there.
(Continued on page 18.)
A CONVICT’S PRAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lord! When I come ’neath Trouble’s flail —■
In plainer language, go to gaol—
Grant that my. Highest Court may hail
From Hobart, where it is the fashion
To view the convict with compassion.
May the Crown witnesses have fled,
Or gone insane, or fallen dead.
But, more than all, to banish dread
And prove to me no danger’s brewing,
Grant me a Judge like Mister Ewing !
N.S.W.
D.


.
■ . '
1
-
:
I ■ I: : : : ■■
1 ■■MNM
f t*
s.
t
:. ; ■m
m ■ y-v
Mm&mm
1 ‘ \
'
*•*■' -Saifr" -
'
-' i P||-/---»Ma.; ■•
' '-A ‘", ‘ .
I
■
'
> !«.
rt..
Wmm - v
• .r. : 'sv,.>. .... .
■'■■
■ 1
I —■— —BBti * &
.- V -- , - V
-
m
J£HH Vlki
• • {^IR
- * , V
.■:•••.•:6r.- i: . >?
phm
■■hHMpg
BBS
I
: y- -.
"ii®
\
4 |
I
HI
• vmv. 1
n
t; - :
It: . tttt
11» iHPiS?
mm
■■■■■■
M
tms m
ik i
&tfc» 1 i je ? Wm&
\l||
• / . .
m
x mm
SMOKE
T obacco
Plug Cut and Mixture
W.D. & H.O. WILLS


DEAR WHEAT ?
Save every grain by using'
the Sunshine Harvester.
Built to last a lifetime.
a sesaasa
■V. M 9 KAY
114
H.Y. McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works
Stanley Street, South Brisbane;
27-39 George Street West, Sydney;
Corner Collins & Spencer Streets, Melbourne;
•56 North Terrace, Adelaide;
36 Pier Street, Perth;
Corner York & St. John Streets, Launceston.
Manufacturer of
Harvesters,
Headers,
Grain Drills,
Fertiliser Drills,
Patent Combined Drill and
Cultivator,
Lucerne Seeders,
Chaffcutters,
Chaff Elevators,
Saw Benches,
Spring Tyne Cultivators,
Grain .Boxes,
Rigid Tyne Cultivators,
One-way Disc Cultivators,
Stump-jump Disc Cultivators
Mouldboard Ploughs, 1 to
5 furrows,
Orchard Ploughs,
Disc Ploughs,
Plough Shares,
Harrows,
Swingletrees,
Metal Gates,
Maize Shellers,
Engines, 1J to 10 h.p
Working Heads,
Pumps.
Write
for Illustrated Catalogue 81, free and post
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Old Tom Mona-
han, a bit of whose Melbourne estate has
passed into the possession of the State Sav-
ings Bank for £lOO,OOO, was a Dublin man
who emigrated to Sydney in 1839, with 360
others, of whom 90 died on the voyage. He
found a wife in Sydney, and in 1841 crossed
to Melbourne, where he opened livery-stables,
together with the Port Phillip Club, in Lons-
dale-street, which he managed during its life-
t-v-p. When the Port Phillip closed down
west of the members joined the Melbourne.
In 1845 Tom built the Queen’s Arms Hotel
and kept it until the late ’fifties, when he
retired from pub-keeping and went to live
out beyond St Kilda. The kitchen of the
old Queen’s Arms, the site of which the Sav-
ings Bank has just bought, was the first
Methodist church in Melbourne.
“Russ”: Beat this Hillston (N.S.W.)
record if you can. The young man is over
6ft. tall, and broad in proportion. Ho is
married and has a son nearly two years
old. He served two years with the A.I.F.
in France before his real age was discovered,
and he was sent home to get his mother’s
consent. He is not 18 yet.
Fred Birrell, president of Adelaide Trades
and Labor Council and secretary of the
Labor party, is a jovial heavyweight of 50.
He was a linotypist on the Register before
he got the job at the Trades Hall. Fred
has a twin brother Albert, and only close
acquaintances can tell one from the other.
Albert had quarter of an hour’s start on
Fred, and is quarter of an inch taller, but
Fred has an extra quarter of an inch in the
girth. There is a yarn that the lads used to
attend a North. Adelaide school before the
days of free education, paying up for a term
and taking week-and-week-about in the
classes.
Basil G. Rudd, an Adelaide boy, who has
been studying at the School of Journalism at
the University of Missouri, U.S.A., has
gained the degree of Bachelor of Journalism.
In 1910 Rudd visited America to read for
the Chur c h, but
eventually decide d
that the Yankee yel-
low press needed re-
forming. and took on
journalism. H e i s
now with the United
Press Association of
New York. But he
hasn’t quitted the pul-
pi t altogether, and
when he idsited his
native State IS
months ago
he preached
at the
Semaphore
Church of
Christ.
CUTHBERT
BUTLER ,
M.L.A., on
his farm at
Elimbah,
Queensland.
Solly, Labor M.L.A., was lately elected
chairman of the Melbourne Exhibition
Trustees —keeper of the great seals, as John
Gavan Duffy called the job.
T. D. Wanliss, father-in-law of Lieut.-
Governor Irvine, was 90 last month. He
was a member of the Vic. House of Dreari-
ness for a few years and then left for Edin-
burgh, where he runs a journal called The
Thistle, devoted to Scottish national inter-
ests.
“J.F.H.” (London) : The specials with
the Prince are apt to get off the track when
they dash into Australia’s past. The Daily
Telegraph man describes Ballarat as the
“scene of the most romantic events in Aus-
tralian history,” one of the said events
being “the presence of a future Prime Min-
ister of the British Empire, the late Mar-
quis of Salisbury, among the early gold dig-
gers." Which is surely an injustice to Ben-
digo. Apropos, all the special correspondents
agree that the reception of the Prince in
Ballarat was surprisingly frigid and de-
tached compared with the scenes of enthusi-
asm they had witnessed in Melbourne.
Ross Robinson, who died the other day
at Bowen (N.Q.), was one of the oldest
mining identities in Bananaland. He left
London in the emigrant ship Flying Cloud
in 1864, and tried his luck for 40 years on
the Peak Downs, Cape River and Kimberley
rushes, during which time he was associated
with many old explorers and prospectors
such as Phil Sanders, O'Donnell. Fyfe and
Carr Boyd. Later on he made England his
headquarters, and paid frequent visits of
inspection to gold and silver wild-cats in
France, Spain, Italy, Greece and British
Columbia. He returned to Australia in
January, 1910, and had scored 84 when the
Reaper called.
It is quite possible (and apparently quite
lawful), under the Commonwealth electoral
system, for a candidate to be returned by
the votes of the defunct. Prime Minister
Hughes received five votes of this kind at
the last election. The electors had voted
beforehand by post and then died before
polling-day.
“J.F.H.” (London) : David McKee Wright
has put up a new poetical record. His ode
of welcome to the Prince was telegraphed to
England and published in all the London
dailies on the day of the Arrival at Mel-
bourne. The Star headed it: “Greeting by
Melbourne’s Prize Poet.” Another injustice
to Sydney!
On appearances the youngest of the 18
Senators who took their seats on July 1 is
Edmund Alfred Drake-Brockman, from West-
ralia. Yet he was a brigadier-general when
the “cease fire” sounded in 1918, and he
heard the first rifle go off at Ari Burnu in
1915. Also, he was in command of the 16th
Battalion when it collected three V.C.’s.
The Senator is a brother of Mrs. Moulden,
Mayoress of Adelaide; the first barrel of
his name is derived from the family to
which Francis Drake belonged. He was a
Perth lawyer until the war-drum throbbed.
The restless spirit of Frank Wild has
taken him to Portuguese East Africa, where
he has become a tobacco-planter. At least
he has acquired a stretch of country in
which he proposes to grow tobacco, but be-
fore he smokes his own twist he will pro-
bably hear the call of the Antarctic again.
He has answered it four times since he came
to Australia as an under-sized lad—with
Scott in 1901-4, with Shackleton 1907-9,
with Mawson 1911-13, and with Shackleton
again in 1914. But exploring is in his blood,
for he is a direct descendant of Captain
Cook.
Harry Cherry, a Westralian who has done
black-and-white work for The Bulletin and
a lightning-sketch turn in Vaudeville, is off
to ’Frisco by the Ventura to try his luck on
the other side of the Pacific.
“Dolphin”: Bass Straits brought the worst
of luck to those who discovered and explored
them. The expeditions of Bass and Flin-
ders grew out off the wreck, of the Syd-
ney Cove, which went
ashore on Clarke
Island. Bass then
sailed for South
America and was
never heard of again.
His companion Flin-
ders spent years in
captivity in
Mauritius, and
died a broken
man soon after his re-
lease. Black, who sailed
the first merchant vessel
through the Straits, dis-
appeared, like Bass,
while he was on a voy-
age from Calcutta to
Sydney. Grant, the
captain of the Lady Nel-
son. the first to sail
through the Straits from
the westward, lost hds
job immediately after-
wards, and never did any
good again.
LAZZARINI, the new
M.H.R. for Werriwa
(N.S.W. ).
The scorn of ohi old Gallery hand: —
Men of all shades of opinion in the Reps, seem
to have the poorest opinion of the personnel of the
Hughes Government. Excluding Hughes and Watt,
who needn’t be considered, the brightest of the
squad is Massy Greene, who may by lofty vision and
intelligence achieve the stature of a statesman. But
considering the others in the broadest charity, you
can’t find one who isn’t small compared with the
lions in the first two or three Cabinets. Groom is
a little gentleman who would be a hero if the House
were a boudoir and Cabinet meetings were afternoon
teas. But he has neither the power nor decision for
the high life of politics, and his fear of hurting
anybody clouds his behavior in grievous affability.
Poynton is an opportunist, and so is Laird Smith.
Joe Cook has lost almost everything but the ability
to start a row with a tactless interjection. Ryrie
is an amiable penny-in-the-slot for Pearce’s doubtful
“explanations.” Webster in all his poetry was never
mentally disarrayed like his successor Wise, who
seems to be everywhere and nowhere at one and
the same time. Of the Senate three Millen inspires
more respect than Pearce, and Pearce more than
Russell. All of these men are privately blameless,
but they do not represent the highest talent in the
party let alone the country. The only reason why
some of them hold office is that they are the elect
of the ruling crowd in their respective States. This
system of State representation in the Cabinet is
not only screamingly absurd; it is a national danger.
THE CIRCUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Braying tin trumpets, beating busy drums.
Be glad ! Rejoice! the Fed’ral Circus comes—
The gaudy show with all its pomp and noise ;
Observe the spectacle, you gills and boys!
Shrewd conj’rers, scores of clowns and men who pace
On endless silver cobwebs strung through space.
Here is the greatest show upon the earth.
Why brood with sorrow ? Let us dance with mirth.
Look : Look ! See Billy Hughes is full of quips!
Watch how he lashes with his elfin whips
The clowns who seek to catch him in a trap.
With ceaseless wit he gives them slap for slap..
Oh, see' What fun, he’s upset Considine
Into a barrel full of stinging brine!
Ha ! Ha ! But this is even better. Look,
That sly dog Tudor pinpricks Joseph Cook
When he is occupied; e’en ushers grin—
To misa such humor would be blackest sin.
Jove! Now the “little doctor” says (lee-fieri!)
That “Billy” is another name for “flea”!
Oh, niy poor ribs! The satire is so keen!
For pity’s sake don’t miss fierce Massy Greene
(The long one with the crimson-tinted hair) —
He’s crying that it really isn’t fair
Of old John West to say he is a child ! \
What artistry—one almost thinks him wild!
For your own sake be calm, control your smiles —
Observe the Catts a-strutting on the tiles,
What wondrous mimicry is this that stirs
Into most feline spits and too few purrs!
Now Cook is juggling with the int’rest bill
'As Lazzarini’s tenor rises shrill,
And through the babel, rumbling like a cab,
Pours forth the splendid soul of Moses Gabb!
And now, Hire some great hippo from the mire,
Tom Ryan rises full of Irish fire:
His humor may be heavy but it’s strong—
Three cheers! He has frail Billy ’neath the thong.
The biter now is bitten- —what delight !
Behold, the dry McWilliams’ lips gl ow white!
Now surely from those portals comes a jest
Which will confound and outshine all the rest.
While all shy carrots at him, tall Higgs goes
Solemn as death upon his bony toes,
Walking upon his cobweb far above.
There! Blushing Jowett, sweet as any dove,
Is tripping in the fairy maze of dance,
And all the scene grows gracious with romance.
Ah, what a circus, hip-hip-liip-liooray!
Who would not gladly for such pleasure ' pay ?
VICTORIA.
DALE.


0
uau
:
■I
1 H«HI
■i
BB
Wm
m
asm
wmm
mmmaam
'4
*
—I
wm
m
ms
MH|
■I
1
■ V.
■ rani
: m
• m
m a
.
R &
I I
gggggggs s
MW—km
siA'v I
■
tf SSlt 1
|> I
.....
f
.1
:J
H
V
1
r
'
MHM
> : .•:
S 9 8
:
BH
■■
i Hi
m
i m
m
wm
msm
m
.: Ha
■ m
Bill
42?A3f
SHERATON
V ■ . ■■: - 1
Up
HEPPLEWHITE
/COMMUNITY PLATE (Knives, Forks, Spoons)
instantly attracts by tHe liarmony and grace
of its forms and contours, and by the chaste
richness of its characteristic designs. In it are materialised
the dreams of great artists and world - famed decorators.
The long life of Community Plate (Knives, Forks,
Spoons) is assured by the high quality of materials;
the skill and care of workmanship; the heavy
plating oyer all; the reinforcement, by means of a
visible disc of pure silver, where wear is severest.
The illustration shows the beautiful patterns in
Sheraton, Patrician, Adam and Hepplewhite Styles.
You will find that this delightful quartette compete
strongly with one another for your preference.
For daily use as well as for the guest-table.
COMMUNITY PLATE, Tablespoons or Forks—Guaranteed 50 years —per set of six 63/-
RELIANCE PLATE, Tablespoons or Forks —Guaranteed 25 years —per set of six... 36/-
PLATE, Tablespoons or Forks—Guaranteed 10 years —per set of six 24/-
OTHER ITEMS RELATIVELY PRICED. ON EXHIBITION AT LEADING JEWELLERS & STORES
ONEIDA COMMUNITY, LIMITED
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 PITT ST., SYDNEY
Established 1848, and incorporated 1881 at Oneida, New York


m
m
m
Ji
1
>
i 'll/
I
If
S
CL
S 3
cP EJ vs
JOS^
i63a
EST 9
“ORIENT”
Ceylonette Pyjamas
18/6.
“Made by David Jones’” from
good quality material which, to-
gether with expert labor employed
in the making, readily reflects the
high standard of value of “Orient”
goods. Cut on lines that combine
comfort, service, and good appear-
ance. Obtainable in black, blue,
or helio stripe designs on white
ground.
Sizes 36in. to 46in. chest . . . 18/6
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
David <Jones
for Service
Opp. G. P. O. SYDNEY Tel. City 6336.
GOODRICH means
good rubber articles
Time alone is the real test of quality
production.
Since 1869 the name Goodrich has
stood for the highest quality in the manufac-
ture of rubber products.
In all rubber articles—tyres, mechanical
rubber goods, druggists’ sundries, or foot-
wear, the B. F. Goodrich Rubber Company
has held the leadership for more than 50 years.
The name Goodrich will continue to
mean what it has in the past, because it is
built on the solid foundation of conservative,
progressive dependability.
The Goodrich factory, with its 70 acres
of floor-space and 30,000 employees, is one of
the largest of any kind in the world.
One day’s work in this great factory
produces 25,000 automobile tyres, I 5 miles of
rubber hose, 25,000 pairs of rubber boots and
shoes, 4000 water bottles, and 30,000 other
articles of rubber.
Quality production is the foundation of
this huge output.
The name Goodrich means good rubber
articles.
G
DUVAL 8 CO., Sydney, Melbourne
and Brisbane.
Farmers’ Co-operative Union, Adelaide
u
k ih,.
bn*
July 14—and Charlotte Corday.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JULY 14 was France’s Day, and the
day, too, of Charlotte Corday. No
story is more interesting than hers;
no woman’s figure stands out so clearly,
if inscrutably, against the tragic back-
ground of the time. Where, apart
from her, will you find a girl of good
health, antecedents and character deliber-
ately making herself an assassin in the in-
terests of her country—sacrificing herself
without fear, without fanaticism and with-
out religious faith? Joan of Arc died for
France, but she lived in an age when fanati-
cism was common and faith had not been
sapped by philosophical unbelief. She was
probably a mystic, and country, and religion
had become mystically blended in her mind,
making her abnormal. Charlotte Corday,
save for the fact that she stabbed Marat,
did nothing abnormal. There was no evi-
dence in her upbringing of lack of balance.
She had no upsetting beliefs. She had no
lover. She had no enemy. She was neither
neurotic, hypersensitive nor hypochondriac.
She had never seen Marat, nor been within
a hundred miles of him before she went up
to Paris to kill hiin. She knew that his
death would cost her her own life, but she
considered it better for France that he should
die, and with calm deliberation she made the
sacrifice.
When anyone thinks of July 14 he or
she may well spare a thought for this girl,
the last of the female martyrs, post-dating
the others by about 1500 years. Her parents
were -middle-class people, residing at Caen,
in the south-west of France. She was living
there when the Revolution broke out in 1780.
On July 14 of that year, when the Bastille
was taken, she was in her 17th year. Echoes
of the Paris storm would reach the girl only
faintly at Caen. But the tempest grew ; the
monarchy went down in blood on the 10th
of August, 1792, the King going to the guillo-
tine five months later. , Though Charlotte
must have shuddered when she heard of
these things, she soon thrilled to another
feeling. Was not Liberty at last coming
into its own? Was not a new France
arising? Caen, be it remembered, was the
headquarters of the Girondists, and it was a
Gironde Minister (jßoland) who was in
charge of the country’s domestic affairs when
Louis went to the scaffold. That was on
January 21, 1793.. For a few brief weeks
the Girondist dream of a glorified 'Republic
where all men should be free and equal
seemed a possibility. But the forces of
Terror were pushing on behind. And at the
head of them, inciting them, with his squat
figure and strident voice, was the misshapen,
hideous Marat.
Of course, Marat has his latter-day apolo-
gists. Just as the ragged fanatics of the St.
Antoine suburb deified him after his death,
and had statues ©f him stuck up in all their
meeting-places, so do certain ingenious theo-
rists defend him to-day. He was a learned
man, a scientist, a doctor, a lover of free-
dom, and all the rest of it. Perhaps he
was; but the pages of the Moniteur, still
to be read in the Paris National Archives,
record how in the Convention he used to
howl for blood. “We must have rivers ®f
it!” yelled the scientific Marat.
To Charlotte, in her retreat at Caen, the
personality of Marat, and, in fact, his very
existence, was something sinister and ter-
rible. The friends she had were Girondist
friends; the men who were making the new
and fair France were Girondists, now, men-
aced by the monster Marat. He ought to
be got rid of. That was certain. But who
would get rid of him? With calm and
deadly resolution she resolved to do it her-
self. She admitted no one to her confidence.
On July 8, 1793, she took the Paris dili-
gence, leaving her home for the three days’
journey to the capital she had never seen.
She arrived on the evening of July 11, took
a room, went calmly to bed, and on the next
day set out to look for the man.
Charlotte had reckoned on making the sac-
rifice a public one. She intended to approach
Marat publicly, and to strike him down in
view of all Paris. As it happened, he was
ill when she reached the city; the skin
disease that added so much to his native
ugliness was keeping him at home. She
went to his house on the afternoon of the
12th. The door was opened by Marat’s
housekeeper. “Is citizen Marat at home?’’
“Yes.” “May I see him?” “Not unless you
have an appointment,” and after another word
or two the door was firmly shut. The patient,
protesting figure of Charlotte remained outside:
Back she came next evening—the 13th.
This time she was admitted. Citizen Marat
was in his bath, but if she would wait—
“l will wait,” said Charlotte, hurrying past.
She lost no time. Unflinching and resolute
as when she left Caen five days before, she
hurried along a passage-way and entered the
place where Marat sat in his closed-in bath,
a writing-tablet in front of him. The blow
was struck. “A moi mes amis” cried the
squat victim, spluttering and dying. In a
few minutes he was dead.
The arrest, the trial, the execution fol-
lowed in due course, and followed quickly.
No need to dwell on them. On the evening
of the 13th the Terrorist died; at half-past
six on the 16th the tumbril took Charlotte
to the place of execution. At the trial she
had not flinched. She listened to the evi-
dence with no display of emotion. She was
heal'd to say once or twice, after a witness
had given evidence, “That is a fact, “It is
quite true,” “One could not have given a
truer _ deposition.” The heaven's were dis-
charging a deluge of rain as the cart drew
alongside the guillotine. Charlotte, with
her hands bound, lifted up her face, and the
rain fell on it. Death came even more
swiftly to her than she had dealt it to Marat.
Just 127 years ago. Neither French his-
tory nor English history can furnish a
parallel to the strange episode, the heroic
tragedy. There have been male fangtics—
scores of them —who have thrown away
their lives in striking at an oppressor.
Women, as a rule, don’t do such things.
They want a personal motive. Charlotte
had an impersonal one. Young, good look-
ing, calm, heroic, inexplicable, she moves
across the page of history swathed in a
light that is half-darkness, sombre as the
night itself, and yet shot through with a
gleam like the gleam of immortality.
A. J. B.


o Z
o O
p 3
o
o
o‘
•-t
8 c
n> '
SD 3
O
CO
<T> O
w tsr
WHEREVER belting conditions are especially severe
or exacting, or a drive is particularly difficult or
strenuous, you will usually find a Goodyear Belt
operating successfully where a former belt of other make
has been tried and has failed. Goodyear Belts are designed
and built for every kind of drive. There is no condition
that cannot be adequately met—-no type of service that
cannot be delivered.
The illustration shows a Goodyear Belt in use in the Timber Mills of
Messrs. Vanderfield & Reid at Glebe, Sydney. Let the following
particulars impress you with the excellence of a belting which succeeds
under the severest conditions.
This is a 3in. x 4 ply Glide Belt, travelling at a speed of 622 feet per
minute, operating a Saw Dust Shoot. The belt runs direct off the shaft
(without pulley). The shaft has a key-way cut in it. • This presents an
abnormal wearing-surface to the belt, and it is an instance of belt-abuse
which, in some circumstances, is inevitable.
The belt, which is crossed, as will be seen in the illustration, works
under dusty and gritty conditions ; the possibilities of slippage are
intensified because it operates on the shaft (without pulley) and because
of the extremely short distance —2ft. 9in. —between centres. The
total length of belt is 6ft. 3in.
This belt has been in use for 8
months, and still appears in good
condition. Balata belts, which
were formerly used on this drive,
gave a maximum service of only
4-J months.
You have the right at any time
to call for the advice of the
Goodyear Technical Man, who
will demonstrate how to adapt
your belts to the actual conditions
of work.
His specialised knowledge and
continuous experience of results will
assist you to secure not only the
maximum service in belts and
consequent economies of factory
operation, but will insure the effective
transmission of power wi th its
accompaniment of maximum output
of machines or plant.
Our Specification of Goodyear
Belting carries with it the acceptance
of responsibility for its satisfactory
service and wear.
STOCKS OF GOODYEAR MECHANICAL RUBBER GOODS ARE NOW CARRIED THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA BY
%
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED
ADELAIDE, MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, BRISBANE, PERTH


mm
8
i-"
i
r
ORIGINAL
BALATA
Dicks
BRITISH
BELTING
A Belt is a beast of burden that can lose a large
part of the load without the eye perceiving it.
The above illustration shows a 36in. 8-ply DICK’S BALATA
BELT, travelling at a speed of more than a mile a minute. As
the belt speed is 5925 F.P.M. the belt operates around the pulleys
a) times every minute. At more than a revolution a second,
the smallest leaks would soon mount up a big total if this were not
the correct belt for the ivork to be performed.
Over 35 years of faithful service in the mammoth ensrineering
ol G r eat lias proven beyond doubt that DICK’S
OKIGINAL BALATA BELTING does transmit every ounce of
power generated. The unique nature of the canvas and balata
sunace ot the DICK BELT minimises every possible risk of
slipping
TV hen buying your next belt, let one of our practical men consult
with your engineers. This icon’t commit you to buying Dick’s
Balata Belting. It will put *your buying on the one basic con-
sideration —the work to be performed.
WRITE FOR FREE COPY of the BALATA BELTING BOOK.
JAMES HARDIE 8 CO. LTD.
SYDNEY:
York & Wynyard
Streets.
MELBOURNE:
581-3 Little Collins
Street.
ADELAIDE:
30 Currie Street.
QUEENSLAND:
ie Queensland Mach
BRISBANE
ADD YEARS TO
YOUR LIFE.
BDTTERLAC
““SPECIALLY-PREPARED POWDERED FORM of
BUTTERMILK, containing the LACTIC BACILLUS which
PROFESSOR METCHNIKOFF (Pasteur Institute of Paris)
Discovered to be the
MOST RELIABLE REMEDY
for the
Treatment of all Troubles arising from GASTRIC and
INTESTINAL DISORDERS.
BUTTERLAC IS INVALUABLE FOR NERVE TROUBLES,
INDIGESTION, RHEUMATISM,
INSOMNIA, KIDNEY and LIVER
HEADACHES, DERANGEMENTS
and AH Stomach Ailments.
BUTTERLAC IS FREE
FROM ANY DRUG.
BUTTERLAC can be taken by Adults and Children.
Butterlac is Sold in Tins, 2/6 and 4/6
ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Wholesale Distributors:
Victoria: DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
New South Wales: H. L. BUSSELL & CO., LTD., Meagher Street, Sydney
Queensland: TAYLOR & COLLEDGE, LTD., Brisbane.
South Australia and Western Australia: ALFRED HARVEY & CO
Adelaide. *'
Tasmania: L. FAIRTHORNE & SON, Launceston.
The Coastal Farmers’ Co-operative
Society, Ltd. (Sydney)
Bonus
Net to Con- To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends, signors, serves, serves.
1909.. £9,924 6 p.c. =£7o4 £9,186 £34 £1,124
1910.. 10,144 6„ „ 865 10,403
1911.. 9,221 6 ~ „ 946 8,244 31 31
1912.. 12,667 6 „ „ 1032 11,571 64 95
1913.. 17,718 6 „ „ 1222 14,948 1,548 1,643
1914.. 15,522 6 „ „ 1446 14,056 20 1,663
1915.. 18,993 6„ ~ 1605 16,681 707 2,370
1916.. 19,557 6 „ „ 1892 18,325 1,710
1917.. 20,199 6,, ~ 2170 18,118 1,621
1918.. 25,993 7„ „ 2839 22,768 386 2,007
1919.. 25,233 7,, ~ 4320 21,279 1,641
1920.. 36,019 7„ ~ 5361 30,460 198 1,839
The C.F.S. marks its 20th birthday with
record figures in almost every department.
Owing chiefly to the high prices realised for
co-operators’ produce, sales for the past 12
months exceeded, the'previous year’s by more
than three-quarters of a million, the, total
value of marketings having been over 34
millions, or nearly twice the value of the
turnover only four years ago. The remark-
able feature of this performance is that it
was possible with total funds (capital, re-
serves and deposits) of slightly over £BO,OOO
and outside debts of only about £30,000. In
addition, the society owed consignors
£156,687, but that represented only 4.4 p.c.
of the year’s total sales, or just about a fort-
night’s turnover. The C.F.S. works on a
quick-settlement basis; total book debts on
account of produce sold stood in the bal-
ance-sheet at under three-fifths of the value
of the March turnover. Owing to appre-
ciated values, however, trading figures have
rapidly outpaced the growth of funds, and
since the society has not bothered to accumu-
late substantial reserves, additional capital
has been badly-needed to facilitate its huge
operations. During the past year co-opera-
tors were canvassed to increase their share-
interests, and £14,883 of new capital was
got in, making paid-up capital at March 31
£76,579. But high prices, the rapidly-
expanding business and extensions of inter-
ests now contemplated will require still
further capital, and the directors recently
got co-operators to agree to double the pre-
sent nominal capital of £lOO,OOO. But it
will be a much more difficult matter to in-
duce them to subscribe the necessary cash,
despite the 7 p.c. the Society is now paying.
That is one weakness of these co-op. con-
cerns: producers are always ready to accept
every penny the societies save for them, but
are generally either hard up or short-sighted
and do not permit the accumulation of help-
ful reserves or show any willingness to
finance their enterprises adequately. So far
the C.F.S.. has managed very well, but the
co-operative, movement throughout the Com-
monwealth is on the eve of big expansion,
and if co-operators wish to eliminate the
middlemen still further and take full advan-
tage of the new opportunities, they will need
to show more readiness in providing finan-
cial backing for the people who are tending
their interests.
The success of the C.F.S. is well illus-
trated by the fact that of its gross commis-
sions of £147,477 for the past year no less
than £36,019 was available for return to pro-
ducers in the form of dividends and rebates.
Put another way, it marketed over 3J mil-
lions’ worth of produce at an all-in cost of
£111,45S —or only 3.1 p.c. After rebating
one-third of the commissions earned on the
thousands of tons of. butter handled each
year, the C.F.S. is actually marketing that
commodity at the wonderfully low cost of
2 p.c., and also guaranteeing payment.
Besides dairy produce, the C.F.S. is "nowa-
days interested in grain, poultry, fruit and
vegetables. In all these lines its well-
established organisation has come to the aid
of producers. When the society butted into
the fruit trade only five years ago it found
itself in competition with 200 sellers in
Sydney; now it does the major portion of
the trade and is rebating to consignors 10
p.c. of the commissions they are charged.
Having succeeded so well in handling co-
operators’ produce locally, the C.F.S. and
other co-operative societies in the Common-
wealth are now following the Maoriland pro-
ducers, and have established an Australian
Producers’ Wholesale Co-op. Federation,
with a nominal capital of £lOO,OOO. The
Federation, representative of societies in
four States whose aggregate turnover ex-
ceeds 18 millions, has been launched to
undertake the “collective sale, purchase and
distribution in the Commonwealth, Great
Britain, or elsewhere, of merchandise and
produce.” The immediate objectives of the
Federation are the organised purchase of all
farmers’ requirements and the establishment
of a selling floor for co-op. produce in Lon-
don, and the C.F.S.’s g.-m., C. E. D. Meares,
and delegates from other societies are at
present in the Cold Country arranging the
preliminaries. Incidentally, still another
effort is being made to amalgamate the
C.I.S. and the Berrima District Farm and
Dairy Co.
* * * *
Sydney Exchange Co. :
Writ- To
ten Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Dee., 1912.. 1854 6 p.c.= 900 250 704 19549
June, 1913. . 602 6„ „ 900 250 19 001
Dec., 1913.. 2047 6„ „ 900 750 397 19^398
June, 1914.. 1187 6„ „ 900 287 19,685
Unexplained additions to Reserves 3033 22,718
Dec.; 1914.. 1592 6 p.e.= 900 300 392 23 110
June, 1915.. 961 6„ „ 900 61 23 171
Dec., 1915.. 1731 6„ „ 900 831 24,002
June, 1916.. 944 6„ „ 900 150 23,896
Dec., 1916.. 1655 6„ ~ 900 9000 15 651
June, 1917.. 1181 6„ „ 900 5200 10 732
Dec., 1917.. 1787 6„ „ 900 31 856 11^588
June, 191 S. . 1053 6„ „ 900 50 103 11,691
Dec., 1918.. 1732 6„ „ 900 832 12,523
June, 1919.. 959 6„ „ 900 59 12,582
Dec., 1919.. 1596 6„ „ 900 696 13,278
June, 1920.. 1001 6„ „ 900 269 13,110
This is the co. which runs Sydney’s Royal
Exchange, but over many years shareholders
have had only a very mild interest return
for financing tlie port’s commercial rendez-
vous. In no other enterprise would the
dozen well-gilded members of thg Board led
by veteran George Judah Cohen be satisfied
to make so little, for the 6 p.c. dividend is
the poorer when it is noted that there are
£13,000 of visible reserves at work besides the
paid capital of £30,000. In addition to these
visible reserves there are hidden resources,
for the Exchange buildings now stand in
the books at only £55,000 (written down
from _ £70,000), and the uniquely-situated
premises, with pub attached, are worth a
lot more than that nowadays. This means
that the security for shareholders’ capital
is very good. Though there is only a small
margin of profit in the subscriptions, rents
and ads. which provide the co.’s in-
come, shareholders’ connection with the
Exchange is. worth something which can-
not be measured up and set down
in a balance-sheet. The £30,000 of capital
was inadequate to finance the premises, and
the co. had to fall back on debentures. Fif-
teen years ago liabilities amounted to
riwl, ’ while li(luid assets totalled only
£-.006. At the latest balance the co. owed
£14.159 (a further £3OOO of debentures were
paid off during the past half) and had £3170
in, liquid assets. So since 1905 the excess of
liabilities over liquid assets has been reduced
by £12,933.
* * * *
“Good Australian”: Vic. Chamber of
Mines, m its annual report, gives a bird’s-
view the position of gold-mining in
that_ State. It is anything but inspiriting,
particularly when the importance of a gold
yield is considered in relation to the enor-
mous public debt due to persons, outside the
Commonwealth. This shows what happened
during the three years to 1918:
„ ■ . IMS. 1918.
Treated .. .. 598,231 tons 226,227 tons
Yield .. .. 329,068 oz. 158,827 oz.
7 al ue .. ..£1,379,793 £674,655
Men employed .. 8,755 3 547
Dividends paid .. £193,421 £62,925
No temperature chart of a dying patient
could be more eloquent on one point: that
the gold-mining industry, which created Vic-
toria and made Australia, is dying—dying
of neglect by Parliaments and public, and
its decease accelerated by bad office-direc-
tion and ignorant mine-management. Only
recently have educated mining-engineers
taken charge of the Bendigo goldfield, whore
mining methods and machinery are to-day
.lust the same as they were in 1852. The
Ballarat goldfield died before it was realised
that trained chemists and engineers were
wanted to scientifically treat ‘the millions
tons °f low-grade quartz still there. In
* ■ cos - were mem bers of the Chamber
of Mines; last year there were only 50.
The_ report attributes the decline of gold-
mining to “the greatly-increased costs result-
ing from adverse economic conditions.” That
is to say, the Chamber regards the fall in
the purchasing power of gold as responsible
tor the decay. Increase of costs is another
scapegoat, and not one word is uttered
about pipestem shafts, want of ventilation,
poor hauling-plants, dear haulage, lack of
deadwork, absence of reserve funds, the
curse of fortnightly instead of yearly divi-
dends, obsolete batteries and pettifogging
mining practice. The truth is that Vic.
gold-mining has been conducted by directors
mostly ignorant of geology, metallurgy and
engineering. _ The Cornish system of pig-
rooting for tin as applied to Australian gold-
mining has proved a bigger curse than rab-
bits, thistles, sparrows, foxes and even sec-
tarianism. Dearth of prospecting is blamed
for causing mining to perish, and not a
word is said about the share-jobbing men-
ace and the damning work of dishonest ven-
dors and promoters. Remember Hannan’s,
Coolgardie, Lyell, Zeehan, Dundas and. more
recently, Bullfinch and Hampton Plains.
Have all these iniquities done nothing to
bring about the decay of mining?
* * it it
Development at the Loch Fyne, Jamieson
(Vic.), has been hung up because powder
has been short, labor difficult to get, and
ore not over-plentiful. The oz. average got
was good enough, but it took over 200 ft. of
rising on a length of 100 ft. to rake up 1135
tons for the mill. The best to be hoped is
that this patch is hn index to better things.
The dyke basin in which Friel works is
700 ft. long by 200 ft. wide, and in Tricks’s
day fat divs. came from the makes of quartz
to the east. Friel has fo pick these up on the
downward_ continuation to make the Loch
Fyne a mine again. There is a fair amount
of cash in the office, and once the winter
is over in the Mountains he will be on the
job in earnest.
* * * •
T. W. Horton put in good work last year
for his latest tin pet, the Star Gully, Tingha
(N.S.W.). He annexed 97 acres on the
Birdwood run of wash, besides a further
215 acres Manager J. W.
Archibald now reports that 83 acres at
avera S« 2.41 b. oxide, and that
i,900,000 cubic yards in the Reform claim
will yield 31b. per yard. This looks almost
too good to be true. But Archibald is a
careful man. “All our estimates of yardage
an d values,” he says, “are based on very
patient and detailed work, and can be
accepted without misgivings.” The dams
are full and the creeks are running; still
lingha is normally so dry that to run
two shifts an independent water supply will
be necessary. Given ample water, and Star
Lully living up to sampling, Archibald talks
ot a weekly production of 8 tons oxide, with
costs at Is. per cubic yard—about the aver-
age _at Tingha. So far 17,000yds. on the
original lease have given tons oxide, and
directly the faces get down to the bottom
the average is to go up to 41b. Star Gully
has only a small share register to feed.
*'* * #
Shareholders in several delusions at
Hampton llains and elsewhere are becoming
apprehensive at seeing their cash nibbled
away in fees and expenses, and are putting
RWt ead ! toge I ther tO . tr y to get some of
it back Several meetings for that purpose
have already been called. There are dozens
of ventures with cash in hand which ought
to be wound up at once.


United
E
US
nillallNif!
-k::sk
rrf
hHNKi
si£?gSs'
"•"■ln.;.-
y
m
i
fell!
X : -:;
1
ss
i
iC<S
%
I
ft&S}
1
%
»
f * c:«i* *'
r L>u-mw»
iLF or C
i
m
m
JForC
%
l!<
m
8
r
K>/,
I
;5~::
S'V ■> iv ‘iX,
r?>'\ V- %%Sl
#X. >X
■a
v y//JZ ' ?<vv
\\sf-
m v^-
te§
•*v~;::
%
CiiSKS.,.
X
;
'
J
s^/
se
-5 TV *= l ':;v!-, : ":;in ; ;;:--"'
-s
J?Ls»
%
s&
>». *-^s^i
K
(9
|S|
~=J,
•«it“’VvNSi
.•X
X
M
2
Ift
gSs
v 5 **
Xli
•^lpi
!5. IIG
«
■C
■ : <T ;
#!r
9
%
p
c i;y
%
*
fe§>
ft
*>.,,
>i!,v
V iii^
Vk
/* X**
m
m
M
1
aca
Wffi&S
£;«!
i
■;AiMm^m
?*
EiffiKS:
ss^?.
r;>":
l’iliJ N, (t'' > ll l 'll ffii'lli I *!••• •
m
mm
W
>r* ’ . or'
li
AT
C«i
iggg
ss
a
& !
**A
r-can
sr
0
■la
f ljtitL-
'V
’AiMAMIAI
tTASINIANi
The Tread
of a Tyre
denotes its use. Every road is ridable in comfort with ‘United States’ Nobby
Tread Tyres. Motor where you will city street, back block track, sandy
reach —‘NOBBIES’ will get you there.
Notice the nobs. Each is set at an irregular angle —scientifically determined.
These nobs ‘feel’ the road. They hold it, to the point of preventing both side
and back slipping. They give traction and safety.
Just the tyre for the hard-worked car.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING GARAGES AND
UNITED STATES RUBBER COMPANY
(AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
W. A. SORRELL, Sydney.
HOWARD MOTOR & CYCLE CO., LTD.,
Brisbane.
BURGESS BROS., LTD., Hobart.
IRVINE & McEACHERN, Launceston.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.), LTD., Perth


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-129 PITT STItEET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COFFINS ST., MEFBOCRNE.
QUEENSFAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGFE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH diUSTRAFIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUIFDING, GREN-
FEFF STREET, ADEFAIDE.
Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.5.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
eluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Book now for Winter months.
Tariff from 15/- per day, or from
3J4 guineas per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
King Ge®ge W
lun WHISKY
11
THE TOP NOTCHscotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
AN EYE TO SAFETY.
TRIPPER: “What's this?"
AIRMAN: “ A forced landing."
TRIPPER: “ Then steer clear of the main road
— it’s rough enough to wreck a battle-
ship."
“FY7” : “S.C.McL.” (fB. 15/7/’2O) accuses
me of “blather” for saying that bottle-trees often
contain water, and adds that the blacks couldn’t
have used the wood for shields because it is too soft
and spongy. I was born and lived for years in
bottle-tree country, and I repeat that the hollow trees
often contained water and were tapped by travellers.
This quite apart from the liquid yielded by the sappy
wood. Further, the blacks did use bottle-tree wood
for shields. Its pithy nature recommended it. If
“S.C.McL.” has travelled abroad since 1911 he knows
that a soft sandbag stops a bullet better than a steel
plate. The blacks also used the wood for making
coolamons, and sometimes boiled water in the bowls.
All the above is from experience of conditions on
an upper Barcoo station in the days when Binghi
and Mrs. Binghi made their own weapons and
utensils and lived very much their own life.
“J.C.G.” : A handful (or less—better make
it less) of gunpowder placed between two anvils and
fired gives a perfectly entrancing bark, and was
anciently used in Brisbane on occasions which
appeared to call for an artillery demonstration. At
Roma (Q.) they celebrated Jim Page’s return for
Maranoa at the first Federal elections by a dance on
the village green—otherwise the park—with the
town band in attendance and chance the bindi-ies.
One of the local blacksmiths laboriously toted a
couple of anvils, and prepared them for detonation
at the conclusion of the speech. The painful moment
arrived, and he lit the fuse—a rather long one.
The matchlight drew two young fellows, who, per-
ceiving a likely seat, deposited themselves. The
smith rushed in and threw them out of the way,
frantically endeavoring to explain. He was strong
i’ th’ arm, but lacked potent speech. One chap wanted
a box-on, and Vulcan fell back in the hope of draw-
ing the chump from the danger-zone. Thinking he
had scored a win, the chump took a seat again on
the anvil just as the fuse hit the powder. The
meteor fell on his toes, and the flash gave a tailor
a job. The chemist got two jobs. I forget now
whether they fought it out in the paddock or the
courthouse.
“33”: What’s this argument about Ger-
mans not being good riders? We have one here who
performed what few, if any, Australians have done.
It happened at a dingo-drive at Mandoi (N.S.W.).
This chap was a shooter, and an old-man lcanga.
rushed out and sat within a few feet of him. He
put down his gun and quietly sprang on the' kan-
garoo’s back with a good holt of his arms. Being
unused to plying for hire, dad took off with prodi-
gious leaps like H.C.L. The Deutscher sat on for
about 50yds., but came the usual gutser when the
scrub-dashing commenced.
* * * *
“Leo Lear”; Will the chemists please
step in and settle this strychnine dust-up? I have
it from my local dispenser that the amount of the
poison which has killed a rabbit would be too small
to settle a cow with the carcase-chewing habit, even
if the old girl manipulated many carcases. Again,
does the poison get into the bones at all ? I thought
it affected the stomach and heart. “J.Q.’s” pigs
(B. l/7/’2O) that were killed by eating bones of
rabbits poisoned “years previously” leave me uncon-
vinced. Six months ago I laid out hundreds of
bunnies with strychnine and apples. The. cafcases
were thrown in heaps, and to-day have practically
all disappeared. Bones as small as a rabbit’s won’t
stand the weathering of many years, even if strych-
nine is in them.
* * * *
“Bright”: Get in a word of warning before
anyone takes “Orara’s” advice (B. 22/7/’2O) about
extracting a dog from a rabbit-trap. I had a grey-
hound that managed to get his front foot between
the jaws of a new trap which, judging by the noise
he made, was squeezing him considerably. Thinking
to quieten him, I used “Orara’s” method of throw-
ing my coat over his head, and in less time than
it takes a German to tear up a treaty he had the
precious garment in ribbons. Since then I have
merely seized the mong by the scruff of the neck
and the tail and placed my foot on the spring of
the trap.
“Dolphin” :' The story of the 200 (some
accounts make it 300) Chinamen who were ship-
wrecked on Rossel Island and eaten by the native
citizens (B. 15/7/’2O) is discounted by Seligmann in,
his book about New Guinea. He says that Governor
Macgregor made inquiries which led him to believe
that the story was, at least, a gross exaggeration.
Seligmann reckons that if 200 Chinamen had ever
got ashore on Rossel, even without weapons, they
would have been a lot too tough a proposition for
the abos. there to handle.
* * * *
“Mopoke”: Jacky had just recovered from
the .horrors which he had contracted at the local
pinky shop, and was as dry as a lime-kiln and spit-
ting dog-chains. He must have a drink, and as the
buckjumping show had just arrived in the town
he undertook to ride the equine catherine-wheel for
ne quid. Jacky mounted, and the flank-rope was
pulled tight. llg immediately got his second seat
on the ground, and was kicked to boot. After two
more attempts the showman refused to give him
another go until he had the permission of the
Master of Lunacy stamped on him, as he already
had a torn leg, a cauliflower-ear and sundry bumps
and bruises. Jacky saw the drink disappearing, so
holding a battered jaw he remarked, “You gibbit one
drink, boss, I no worry that plurry horse any more.”
“J.G.”: lie erratic courses of bullets (B.
8/7 / ’ 2 0). When pleuro-pneumonia broke out in
Northern Vic. I went out one day to help the boss
kill two bullocks. After much yelling we got the
condemned pair into a big stockyard. The boss
decided to drop the beef by hitting it between the
eyes and.then, while the animals were down, cutting
their throats. He let fly at the wildest bullock,
using an old cavalry carbine which carried a large
Martini-Henry bullet. The animal dropped like a
log when the old carbine barked, and then we were
astounded to see the other beast, which was standing
about 20 feet away at right angles, suddenly prance
about the yard with blood pouring from its throat.
In a few seconds it was dead. The old Martini slug
had cannoned off the first bullock’s head and cut
No. 2’s jugular.
“Malbon”: Be “Cape Pork” (B. 8/7/’2O)
and his formula for measuring timber. His first
is all right, but I think the one I used for years
is quicker, viz., the square of the girth multiplied by
threequarters of the length.
“Kaninpunekan”: Out looking for a
strayed horse up on the Peninsula (Q.), I struck
a solitary Binghi, hunting. He was armed with a
light playing spear, a heavy killing spear, and, of
course, the woomerah. As he walked alongside my
horse and cadged the usual pipeful, we came to a
AT THE WILGA WILGA HOTEL.
“Hey, mum, here's a blighter thinks it's Christmas — he's arskin' for the blinkin' tomater
sauce."
small opening in the forest, about the centre of
which there was a kangaroo feeding, with a tree
about 80 yards from the ’roo on our side, which
was the lee side. As soon as we spotted the ’roo
I pulled my horse behind some tall bushes and
watched. To my surprise Binghi selected the light
playing spear, and after drawing it through his
armpits several times, sneaked up to the tree, and
with the woomerah shot the light, anointed spear
high over and to windward of the ’roo. As
soon as the spear hit the ground the ’roo sat up
and sniffed to windward, and, recognising the fresh,
strong smell of Binghi, hopped down to leeward,
straight for the tree where the blackfellow was
waiting with the heavy spear. He got his punch
in at about five yards. Results: Dead ’roo, a five-
inch grin and (later) a tight loincloth.
“FY7” : “Jimsey” talks about a dingo bor-
rowing a half-grown pup from another lady’s litter
to act as nursemaid to her new-born infants. Few
wild animals, least of all dogs and wolves, are on
visiting terms during family time. Indeed, let
“Jimsey” introduce a strange pup into a “tame”
bitch’s litter, and see how the lady will receive it
in nine cases out of 10. No dingo need bother
about her pups getting out in the open. Take a
litter of even blind pups out of a log and put
them on the ground, and they are feeling for cover
next moment. Crawlers that can see will efface
themselves miraculously in a few seconds. A litter
of dingoes which is “all shapes and sizes” would
simply be a crossbred one, with the pups harking
back to half a dozen types of ancestors.
“Harry J.”: A yam about nerves in a
recent Bulletin recalls a demonstration of the cure
of hysteria by the best specialist I ever came across.
I was working for a widow-cocky west of Mudgee,
and op coming in to dinner one day I found the
little, sunburnt old woman writhing on the kitchen-
floor, apparently suffering terrible agonies. With
her knees almost bent to her chin she rolled and
squirmed, calling out that she was having a “stroke,”
and that she was sure she was going to die —“just!
like me aunty Jennie did.” r felt that I was a'
dud in a situation of that kind, but I reckoned that
a nip from my emergency-flask would do the old
lady no harm. Just as I turned to go and get it
in dashed her 12-year-old boy. Without ceremony,
and without any introductory soft words, he knelt
beside her, shook her vigorously; and commanded
her to “shut up.” “Oh,” groaned the old woman,
“I’m going to die just like me aunty Jennie did.”
“That’s orl right,” said the kid, “but for Gawd’s
sake straighten yer legs out or we’ll never get yer
into a corfin.” That did it. The old lady jumped out
of her trouble, though not quickly enough to catch
the boy. His work was done, but he didn’t wait for
payment. “You’ve got ter rouse her when she gits
like that,” the bright, young Australian explained
to me later.
“Val”: The surest quick-test for tin is to
place the mineral on a sheet of zinc (a piece of per-
forated zinc from an old safe will do), and immerse
it in dilute hydrochloric acid (spirits of salts). In
a few minutes the surface will be reduced to metallic
tin—if it is tin. Weight is a very good guide, as
“Gouger” says (B. 24/6/’2O), but color and lustre
can be very deceptive. Tasmanian west-coasters will
remember a case of tin-stealing being tried at
Bischoff some years ago. Counsel for the defendant
asked the mine-manager if he could pick his tin
from samples from other mines. Of course he could,
Counsel produced a number of small bottles. The
manager quickly made his choice. It proved to be
a sample of worthless blackjack from another dis-
trict.
* * * *
“Willy Willy” : Re Binghi and the return
ticket he always takes if ever he leaves the bush,
In the palmy days of the Golden Mile, Fred de
Gill made a lasting impression on my youthful mind
by entering into animated discussion with my
NAUGHTY.
LITTLE ARTHUR: “Oh, mummy, fancy a
CLERGYMAN wiv a pub dog ! Isn’t he
shocking?”
father on subjects far remote from the average black
fella comprehension. His English was excellent;
but he said he was gradually forgetting the book-
lore he had acquired while he was with the mission
people; and certainly his visits in from the bush
were already becoming fewer and fewer.
(Continued on page 26.)
ESCAPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He won the maid twelve years agone,
When she was dark and slim,
With ink-black eyes that softly shone,
And turned with joy on him.
Each limb was like an ivory wand,
Her lip was poppy red....
Her mother’s eye was sagged and slj,
And glowered in her head.
He married May. Abounding mirth
With glory lit his life.
The sweetest, kindliest thing on earth
Seemed Harry’s little wife
More sourly grew her mother’s face
And fell her mother’s jowl,
And bitter spite by day and night
He ciphered in her scowl.
He saw it coming bit by bit,
And men to him would say:
“You cannot get away from it,
She grows more like each day.
It is her mother’s eye,” they said,
“It is her mother’s chin.”
With sickly awe Carruthers saw
The hard lines drifting in.
“There is no get away from it,”
Her father said of'late;
“She is the image. She might sit
For Ma at twenty-eight.”
And Harry marked the mother’s brow
Bereft of comely ruth.
He felt the venom often then
Of her one yellow tooth.
“There is,” her uncle would declare,
“No get away from it.”
May s cat-like mouth was growing hair,
And cat-like it would spit.
No get away? In coldest dread
He worked his cunning wiles
To get a start from her apart,
Then ran a thousand miles!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


THE MARK OF LEADERSHIP
in the Accessory Field!
■
*4;
'v'/iv *
■
m
1
“•*v
nr ,
>%
PRESTIGE:
When a line of accessories is the best known of its
kind on the market; when these products are the first
choice of both car makers and car owners; when they are the most uni-
versally adopted as standard equipment of all accessories in inotordom,
it is a foregone conclusion that they possess considerable prestige. The
name Stewart is synonymous with Prestige in the accessory field. Just
as “a man is known by the company he keeps,” so is a car known by the
accessories with which it is equipped.
vh
aavw
v^iTi
Pi:
"M
MM
.
smnmma
n
QUALITY:
Stewart Necessities are truly “custombilt.” They are constructed throughout on the most pains-
taking basis. They are as high in quality as the best car upon which they can be installed.
SERVICE
All Stewart Custombilt Necessities are built from the ground up to give uninterrupted, year-arounu
service. They are carefully and honestly constructed from start to finish, and the assurance of
long, satisfactory service is vouchsafed by the time-honored insignia they bear.
SATISFACTION:
Satisfied customers are our biggest asset. We hold paramount the esteem of our four
million Stewart users. We will never permit this high regard to he lessened in the slightest
degree, and if it is possible at any time to produce accessories possessing a
larger portion of satisfaction, we will be their makers.
\
ergv
Is your Car fitted with the Stewart Vacuum Feed System, the Stewart
Perfect Warning Signal, a Stewart Speedometer? Is it equipped with
the Celebrated Stewart Searchlight, which makes night driving both safe
and a pleasure, or the Stewart Autoguard, which protects you from accidents?
If not, speak to your nearest garage or motor-accessory dealer and have the deficiency rectified.
Stewart Motor Necessities are for sale by wholesale and retail motor-accessory dealers throughout Australia.
Trade supplied by any of the following inter-State Distributors.
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney. MARTIN WILSON BROS., LTD., 299 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
BERRY & ROCHE PTY., LTD., 239 Swanston St., Melbourne. CORNELL, LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
ARTHUR CHRISTIAN, 806 Hay Street,, Perth.
Cultivate Musical Taste in Your Children.
THAT which children know best, they love best.
Feed their natural love of music by playing the
melodies they love and the songs they sing, and
their musical taste will rapidly develop along the
right lines.
Just think what fun they would have together singing
the nursery rhymes and songs like Bubbles —these
are all to be had on our player rolls.
Buy a
BEHNING
PLAYER PIANO
and you can play thousands of pieces of music, more
than you could ever dream of playing by hand, even
if you are an expert pianist—and then the children and
the wife can play, too.
The whole family will love a BEHNING and the children
will receive a sound musical education.
mmstm
*r£,
m
11
. ™
. :
lifi
Write for Art Catalogue showing
our various makes of Player
Pianos, and Price List with full
particulars of our EASY TERMS.
J
On request, we will be pleased to
send you, post free, a very inter-
esting illustrated Booklet,
“MUSIC and CHILDHOOD.”
And at
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Brisbane; Toowoomba, Rockhampton, Lismore & Newcastle,


Remarkable Recovery of Mrs. McGinley, Ultimo, H.S.W.
Given up as incurable through Neuritis, but saved by CLEMENTS TONIC
THIS LETTER IS WRITTEN BY WILLIAM McGINLEY, HER HUSBAND,
WHO VOUCHES FOR EVERY WORD OF IT
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.,
I write you relative to my wife, who has
been taking Clements Tonic for some time. Her
complaint is Multi-Neuritis, a most terrible
malady. She was discharged from a local hos-
pital as incurable and anointed for death by the
parish priest. I then, at the eleventh hour, tried
Clements Tonic, and the first few bottles gave
her relief, the only medicine that did.
When she got out of bed she could only
walk with the aid of a stick, and only with my
assistance, while still taking the tonic. She at
last discarded the stick, and now she is walking:
pretty fair.
I know, and the neighbors round about
here know, that it was nothing but Clements
lonic that worked such a wonder in her
after having gone through nain for so long. -
I am, yours gratefully,
WILLIAM McGINLEY.
Mrs. McGinley lives in Bulwarra Street, Ultimo,
a Sydney suburb, and can be seen any day in proof
of the above statement. Clements Tonic can be relied
upon for the relief of Want of Sleep, Debility, Weak
Nerves, Lassitude, Indigestion and Constipation. It
gives new nerve, strength and energy.
GET IT TO-DAY AND GET WELL,
IT IS THE BEST OF TONICS.
AU Chemists and Stores seli this world-famous medicine.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
Get it and recover that lost health.
“Central West”: “H7H” (B. 24/6/’2O)
and the brumby that bucked for 2$ minutes make
me smile. When a horse is bucking (mind, I said
bucking) it is holding its breath, and even if it is
putting them in at the rate of one a second—which
is slow—2 i minutes would mean 150 bucks without a
breather. This from a horse the first time the saddle
was on proves that the ’breaker’s 26 years’ experi-
ence was not much use to him. No horse will buck
(mind, buck) the first time it is ridden if it has
been properly handled. Apart from what the horse
could do it would be a physical impossibility for
a man to sit on a bucking colt for 2-i minutes. No
doubt it does seem a week to the man who is trying
to hang on, but for a horse to buck even 30 seconds
is exceptional. The buckjumping-show people are
always quite content to back their horses for half
a minute. “If you can ride him half a minute
you can ride him a week,” is their contention. In-
cidentally, no matter how willing they may be to
try, only one horse in 1000 can really buck.
* * * #
“Paul C-”: Before trying “Tix’s” cure for
founder (B. l/7/’2O) on his pony—discharging a gun
at a spot on her forehead from two paces off—
or even going to the expense of trying “Samaritan’s”
cure by purchasing apples or cider for the nag,
let “Coolabah” clean out the hoofs of the affected
leg or legs, pour in as much turpentine as the hob
low will hold, and apply a red-hot iron to it.
This will set the spirit on fire. Hold the hoof
horizontally till the fire has burned out, and within
24 hours the beast will be all right. When the
pony contracted the founder first, if “Coolabah” had
given her a pint of sunflower seed in her feed, fol-
lowed by a pint of linseed oil in six hours, or if
he had wrapped her legs in steamed straw for half
an hour and covered them tightly with woollen ban-
dages and repeated this after six hours, she would
have walked away as sound as ever she was.
THE PACIFIST.
“’Struth, wot yer been doin’?"
“ ’Ad a bit of a nargument with a bloke
about Direct Action— ’e was agin it."
“8.H.” (M.L.) : Several years ago a few
of us used to devote an occasional Sabbath to open-
country coursing-—after choir practice. Hares
were as plentiful as profiteers are to-day. A fox-
terrier was used to disturb Bunny from his morning
gambols in a belt of bush which ran alongside the
river, and the open paddocks were the only places
for the disturbed ones. Conditions were thus geo-
graphically perfect for the sport. A lady bunny was
chased out. She had just increased the population,
and wasn t keen to leave the children, so after merely
loping 50 yards she squatted, apparently to wait for
the kids. A couple of hounds were slipped, and they
raced to introduce themselves to the fur-coated one.
(No, I’m not talking of war-time London.) But
Bunny, though perplexed, seemed in no violent haste,
and little more than ambled around towards her infants.
By now the dogs were up to her, but seemed windy
to snap, on account of her remarkable behavior.
Suddenly she turned on them, chased one of the dogs
a few yards, then squatted again. No persuasion
would make those dogs go in and kill; they simply
trotted about her and barked. Bunny didn’t even
seem afraid of us, so, reckoning she had won the
day, we collared the dogs and left her. Both of those
hounds, which had good records previously, were
absolutely spoiled for coursing, and, as far as I
know, they ended by scabbing on the dustman.
* * * *
“W. Blister”: “U.P.” mentioned that E.
secured 249 ’rooa off one square mile of
country. How does this compare with Byers’s per-
formance? A few years back, on a station in the
Wilcannia district, Billy Doubtfire visited a tank,
and in exactly a week shot, skinned and pegged
350 ’roos, besides doing his own cooking and re-
loading of cartridges. This on his dead-ace.
* * * *
Baba”: Within five months of the open-
ing of the Lakekamu goldfield in January, 1910,
dysentery had claimed 25 per cent, of those who
joined in the rush to it. Amongst those who took
the count was big Jim Colman, one of Papua’s
mining pioneers. Being his nearest neighbor, I re-
ported his death to the Warden, who undertook to
select a site for the grave and, as coffin material
(meat and biscuit cases) was unavailable at the
time, to construct a coffin out of some building
material he had. Next morning there was a big
roll-up of diggers to attend the funeral. When
the Warden arrived with the coffin he suggested that
perhaps some of the diggers would like to act .as
pall-bearers, instead of natives, to whom this duty
is assigned in the backblocks of Papua. Thereupon
six men stepped forth and shouldered the coffin.
Headed by the Warden, we marched in single file
through the primeval forest and jungle, across creeks,
and finally to the top of a very steep spur, up
which the coffin was pushed, and hauled with lawyer-
cane ropes. It was a welter, but the only audible
profanity occurred when the spur was being nego-
tiated. Then one of the pall-bearers remarked,
“Struth, does the Warden want us to carry him
to Heaven?”
* » * *
“Forndxie”: How’s this for a crop of
onions from a sixpenny packet of seeds, grown in a
“not suitable” district? The crop weighed 1901 b.
altogether, the biggest of the fruit was 2-Jib., and
there were very few that did not turn the scales
at lib. They were grown in the Lower Macleay
district of N. S. Wales.
“David G. Stead”: Will Lawson (B.
13/5/ 20) is mistaken in believing that the “killers,”
or killer whales, cannot destroy
larger whales. Whalers may
laugh at many of the picturesque
tales published in regard to
whales generally, but experienced
whalers certainly do not doubt
the killer’s prowess in whale-
destruction. A body of killers
would have little chance with
a large sperm whale, and might
have difficulty in keeping up in
a race with a “finner,” but the
black whale and humpback are
not a difficult quarry for them
to deal with once it is sur-
rounded. The lips of these
whales are not grooved, though
throat and belly are very much
grooved in all finbacks. Com-
pared with the powerful jaws
and fearful dentition of the
killers, the whale’s lower “lip”
is soft —decidedly so—and more
or less blubberous. The killer
is not the pigmy that Will might
cause us to think. He often goes
to 30ft. in length, is all muscle,
compared with the somewhat
flabby whale; and is powerfully
armed. His activity and stay-
ing power are both far in excess
of the whale’s. The “jet of
water” thrown up by whales is
more a jet of steam loaded with
an oily exhalation. Water is
only thrown up to a small ex-
tent, just as the whale is coming
to the surface and is exhaling
violently.
“Yarrum”: Wombats are stay-at-home,
silent tenants of the soil, and one might live a
lifetime up against their back yards without being
aware of their presence. Recently, at Rookwood,
near Warwick (Q.), the owner noticed a couple of
what he took for rabbit-burrows, and sent a couple
of hands with picks and shovels after the intruders.
The diggers failed to get a color of bunny, but
came upon a couple of old wombats and a litter
of 10. Later on they dislodged 80 corpulent adults ;
and that was the first the neighbors had seen of
them, though they had probably been living and
breeding there for years.
* * * *
“Splinter”: A swarm of bees settled
under the roof of our shack, and became very in-
convenient. After trying several ways to shift them,
we put a few grains of tartar emetic on a piece
of tin. The bees started to eat this, and no sooner
were a few dead than the hive decamped.
IN PERFECT CONDITION.
“You bad man! Haven't you a conscience?”
“Yes, lady; an' it’s as good as new. I ain’t never used it”
“E. Gippy” : Had any experience of willie-
wagtails tethering their young to the nest? A pair
built a nest on a bush fishing-rod that was pushed
up on the rafters of our back verandah. A dead
chick which was thrown out of the nest had both
of its legs securely fastened with horsehair. When
the remaining chick appeared on the edge of the
nest we discovered that one of its legs was fastened
to the inside of the nest with a cord made of spider-
web. The parent-birds must have taken the extra
precaution with their brood, as our 141 b. tabby
always had his eye on them from the doorstep. The
youngster fell one day, and was hanging several
inches below the nest. As the chick did not seem
to be suffering, but chirruped in its usual note,
I watched for a few minutes to see if the parent-
birds would have the savee to lift the little one up
to the nest. One of the old people came and fed
tlie chick, but did not attempt to rescue it. I
placed a wide paling under the nest so that the
chick had no danger of falling. I was anxious to
see whether the old birds would cut the painter, or
the little chap break away itself; but some savage
came along and spoilt the show by prodding the
chick to death.
* * * *
“Ivaree”: Re the Arab horse controversy.
I think the following description of a race at
Micheria, Algiers, near Hamyan, will settle the argu-
ment. The prizes for locally-bred steeds were 1200
francs first' and 300 second (weight optional: Arab
saddling). The course was 22 kilometres (13f miles).
Eighteen Arab jockeys started, covering two kilos at
a fair pace on the track. Then the mob pricked
across field, pebbles, sand and rock ledges, to the
10-kilo pylon. They had to double round that, plac-
ing a paper there for verification (though the track
was visible from end to end from a platform). The
first rider who passed the winning post covered the
22 kilos in 44min. llsec. (an average of 30 an
hour). The horse, an eight-year-old, showed signs
of exhaustion, but the Government vet. could find no
strain of sinews. Its rider, aged 40, beyond a fast
pulse, was very fit. The second timed 44min.
36sec., the horse and its 65-year-old jockey being
much fresher than the first. Both neddies carried'
66 kilograms. The 18 finished the race, the last
taking 45min. 51sec. (Imin. 40sec. more than the
winner).
* * * *
“Gouger”: The other day I shot a wild pig
with six hooves. The extra pair hung just below
the knees. By the look of them they must have
been more of an encumbrance than anything else.
However, it’s not that that is worrying me. Hides
are an enormous price; yet pigs’ pelts are worth-
less. Hundreds of wild hogs are shot every week
in N.Q., and their overcoats are thrown away. A
wild boar I shot recently had armor-plate an inch
thick across his shoulders. It was so tough that a
.32 Winchester bullet flattened out against it. If
tanned, I reckon that hide would make boot soles
that would last for two years.
“Bill Bowyang”: “Wessel” wanted to
know if there is any foundation for the belief that
the crocodile plants its food in the mud until it
is gamey. Well, I know something of the reptiles’
habits, and when hungry they waste no time in
devouring their prey, but if tucker has been plenti-
ful they will conceal their most recent catches in
the mud and then hang around the spot until it
is time for another feed. This reminds me of the
yam of an aboriginal fisherman on the Tully River
(N.Q.) who was carried to the bottom of the stream
by one of the lizards and left there while the rep-
tile went to the surface to see if there were any
more black duck about. Binghi immediately dived
towards the shore and escaped with a badly lacer-
ated leg. I’ve seen the chap himself and examined
the scars on his leg, and have no reason to doubt
his story.
* * » •
“Scottie the Rake” : Whilst fishing off a
snag on the Lynn River (N.Q.) I noticed a little
man-of-war fish bombarding a beetle that was hang-
ing on a shred of ti-tree bark just out of his
range. The little fellow was persistent, and, as he
shot a drop of water about the size of a grain of
rice only, he was not short of ammunition. But
it was no use. Once he hit the shred of bark, and
the beetle, when he got the strength of things,
stretched himself comfortably, put his hands to
his nose and went to sleep again. The gun-man
scratched his head in meditation for some time,
then, turning round, went thoughtfully off. I
decided that he had given it up as a bad job. I
was mistaken. Some minutes later he returned
accompanied by a friend about twice his size.
The newcomer eyed the sleeping beetle from several
vantage points, and from a position where he could
make the most of the wind, took a deep breath and
let fly. The shot struck the unfortunate beetle
amidships, f and brought him down. The big artil-
lery-man’s face wore a decidedly pleased expression
as he swung back to a horizontal position; but
when he found that his miniature friend and the
beetle had both vanished, he was the silliest-looking
fish in the Gulf waters.
» * * *
“Ragar”: Snakes are often seen on float-
ing nipa-palm stumps and tree-trunks out of sight
of land in the Torres Strait. They are washed
down the Fly River, whose waters are always loaded
up with truck from the banks, which are con-
stantly falling in. The vermin are either carried
into the water with an undermined bank, and seek
refuge on some floating object, or have been washed
down from some creek while attempting to cross
it. The native boats give these travellers a wide
berth. I once saw a semi-submerged nipa-palm
stump washed ashore on one of the islands, and
watched a fair-sized brown snake slither out from
the roots and get ashore. He crossed the beach
at a pace that showed he was late for a meal.
PILGRIM SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There are highways and byways
And small paths between;
And the ways that are my ways
The rain keeps green.
There are mean days and lean days,
And days in yellow drest;
But I have never seen days
That don’t bring rest.
There are high hills and dry hills
And far hills unwon;
But all the tops of my hills
Are laughing in the sun.
There are sad hearts and bad hearts,
And hearts like fickle weather;
But bring me all the mad hearts
And we’ll dance together.
N.S.W.
MARY McC.


BACK AGAIN!
“WINFRED”
Cigarettes.
The World’s Favorite.
GOLD TIPPED.
%
IQ for 9d.
. ' „/.• v. . : ' - '
SHIPMENTS JUST LANDED.
Obtainable Everywhere.


Tke
{wire
Purest
Spirit
in the
World
Wolfes schnapp 6
- "S
CROUP
'///
I fTTTTTTnTTTtTTTTn 1 1 1 i 1 1 11 f ffl n 11! n I rr h in!! I! ! h irnTi i n i
as!?
esf
>s
EVERY Drop of
A Plain
Fact!
“hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street, SYDNEY. ''
heroines that have touched me more than
the delectable Honoria. She has all the
mysterious essence of Sex with all the
additional attraction of Mind.
Hergeslieimer is not a German. He
comes of Dutch stock and is saturated with
the history of Pennsylvania—particularly
the Pennsylvanian industry that provides
the metal whereof his towering herpes are
created. He originally began a career as a
painter, but he dropped the brush for the pen
without any immediate brightening of his
prospects. In fact, he has been so long un-
appreciated that success finds him already
in middle life with his hair thinning and
greying at the temples. The tenacity of the
man may be gauged from his statement that
he wrote steadily for fourteen years before
be had a story accepted !
JEAN SIBI.
John Shirlow, Etcher
The chains of circumstance have for many
years bound John Shirlow to Melbourne—a
surveyor’s city of little natural beauty, and
that little hard to find. Wasteful, beautiful
Sydney destroys cliff-side bush and replaces
it with flats, and still makes conquests; plain
and prudent Melbourne replaces, tips with
parks, and can barely hold her friends. Yet
Melbourne has charms to reveal to the ear-
nest, constant wooer, and who more constant
than etcher John, who has lived next-door
for ever so many years and looked at the
dear old girl with an appreciative eye from
all possible angles? His artistic devotion
may be traced through scores of plates which
will have high historical value as time rolls
on. Now he places before Australia The
Melbourne Set, a handsome portfolio con-
taining six brilliant and vigorous plates of
the inevitable city. The edition is limited
to 80 copies, of which 40 have been set aside
for Australasian collectors, 35 for oversea
collectors, and five for private circulation.
The portfolio is dedicated “To My Friends,
Mr. and Mrs. J. G. Roberts,” and the artist
tells about his Plain Jane in a foreword: —
Melbourne City and the smoke wind-blown from
myriad chimney-tops along the geometric streets,
where life throbs eager. The swaggering Block,
where burgesses and leaders of the social life rub
shoulders with the maid and courtesan. The sunlit
steeple shadowing the slum, where wails the heathen
samisen amid the murk of long-neglected shames in
brick and stone —the loom of spires by Yarra-side
against the evening light. With plate and point
and acid-craft I’ve sought to show the beauty of
unloveliness.
And most art-lovers and Melbourne people
will agree that he has succeeded; he had
too much knowledge and craftsmanship to
fail. Here is the good, plain girl next-door
with the very most made of her one rounded
elbow (the Yarra), the shadow under her
chin (the slums), and the high, thin fore-
head (Scots Church spire) where she keeps
her religious doubts about that siren Syd-
ney, whose wild beauty once nearly over-
whelmed honest, constant John. His tri-
bute of renewed devotion to his old love is
published by Edward A. Vidler, and at 10
guineas is very well worth buying. A book
to have and hold —or to hold and sell if
you can’t afford to love fine things for their
own sake.
The Warrior Briton in French Eyes
In The Silence of Colonel Bramble (John
Lane, London) Andre Maurois follows the
fortunes of the men of a Highland regiment,
to which he was attached as interpreter. The
result is a charming book full of atmosphere
and good stories in which is a tender and
grateful admiration for the Briton and a
whimsical analysis of his character. Here
are a few random extracts:—
To interest a Frenchman in a boxing' match you
m us t tell him that his national honor is at stake.
To interest an Englishman in a war you need only
suggest that it is a sort of boxing match.
‘‘We never imagined,” continued the Major, “that
such cads existed. Bombing open towns is nearly as
unpardonable as fishing for trout with a worm or
shooting a fox.”
“You must not exaggerate, Parker.” said the
Colonel calmly. “They are not as bad as that
yet.”
The most important event in English history is
the taking of the Bastille.
“If history told the truth.” he says, “this war
would not be called the European War, but the war
between Scotland and Germany.”
Aurelle, rather dazed, fuddled with the Indian sun
and the scent of wild animals, at last realised that
this world is a great park laid out by a gardener
god for the gentlemen of the United Kingdoms.
If you want the Colonel to despise you, stick a
flag in your tunic.
When they arc very miserable, they smile. When
they are very happy, they say nothing at a 11....
John Bull is terribly sentimental, which explains
everything.
“Oh, strange creature,” said the doctor, “you
would like to be loved for your face alone; that is
to say, for the position in space of the albuminoids
and fatty molecules placed there by the working
of some Mendelian heredity; but you would dislike
to be loved for your fortune, to which you have
contributed by your labor and your domestic
virtues!”
And this is the note on which the book ends:,
“Perhaps we are wrong,” said the Major. “Ask
him if this is really where the battle was.”
“The battle?” replied the old man. “What
battle?” And the people of Crecy turned back to
their work, binding into neat sheaves the corn of
this invincible land.
Over and above the things of this kind.
which occur on every page, there are the
yarns, some of them old, of them
new, all of them freshly told; and over
and above all is the good characterisation,
the excellent observation and the fine spirit.
There are a few errors, such as the intro-
duction of a. Presbyterian bishop ; but it is
a good, bright book and one to help and
foster the growing understanding between
two nations that fought and suffered so
greatly together. The translation has been
admirably done.
The Decline of the Literary Whine
John Dryden, big man as he was in some
respects, howled like a lost dog over the
failure of his age to reward him for his
writing; yet Dryden’s accounts show that
he was paid a heap more for much of his
work than he would have the least chance
of getting to-day. More than that, the
cash he received probably bought five or
six times as much as it would at the present
hour. Burns wailed rather bitterly over his
lot; yet one of his volumes of verse brought
him £5OO. Who gets £5OO for a volume of
first-grade verse to-day? Keats wept a bit;
but he was a sick boy. Shelley was a trifle
worried about nobody-mucli reading him,
but didn’t go in for loud tears; and Words-
worth went on doggedly producing verse
until a fair number of readers were per-
suaded that as he gave such good measure
they. must buy his work. About the time
Queen Victoria was half-way through her
reign the centre of literary sorrow shifted to
Australia. All the writers of verse and
prose of those days and all their biographies
up to the present time have whined loudly
and eagerly about the lack of recognition
of their genius by the Australian public. I
have looked into some of these sorrows with
genuine sympathy in my heart, and discovered
that the authors of the melancholy and soul-
stirring complaint got a far better deal than
their brothers and sisters do to-day. That a
little volume of verse mostly describing
mountains and rivers didn’t provide its
writer with the means of buying three sheep-
stations and a terrace of houses was no
doubt very sad ; but the same volume pub-
lished to-day would be very unlikely to pro-
vide the means of buying as much as it did
then. It is now an axiom that a literary
success is not necessarily a commercial one;
and that is as true in London and New
York as in Australia. Yet with the decline of
the whine genuine effort has increased. Pro-
portionally to population there are far more
good writers to-day than there were in 1865.
The joy of the work counts for more than it
did; and just because the person who has
written a good thing goes on and writes
another instead of waiting for the public to
get up and throw pound-notes at him, the
real literary spirit is growing. It shows itself
now in a wide public recognition of a few
writers whose work, while literary in a
very decent sense, is well within the compre-
hension of the crowd; to-morrow it will
show itself in just the same way, but the
comprehension will have grown broader and
deeper. Meanwhile the writers do not wail;
they work. Milton got altogether about £lB
for “Paradise Lost”; he might get 18 pence
to-day. But would that worry Milton? Not
if he felt he had “Paradise Regained” to
write. The writing man has now got it well
into his head that he is not selling a superior
brand of cheese; and though he generally
likes ready cash as well as the next man,
he isn’t selling his soul for it or getting
drunk with self-pity because nobody will
buy that superior article at his own price.
C. O. M.
A Satchel of Books
Pagan Fire, by John Cary (Geelong).
This is a booklet containing four alleged
songs. The meaning of the first, “David,”
is hidden from the wise and prudent and
not even revealed unto babes. Only the
author can even guess what it is about. The
others are a little more intelligible, but
show no improvement in the quality of the
verse.
The Country Cousin at Cambridge, by
Lilian Clarke (Johnson and Nephew, Cam-
bridge). This is an attempt to describe
Cambridge University college by college and
tradition by tradition in a conversational
fashion. It is not inspiring; but there is
any amount of information for anybody who
wants it.
The Exploits of Bilge and Ma, by Peter
Clark MacFarlane (Little and Brown, Bos-
ton). Bilge and Ma are the nicknames of
two American sailors on a destroyer. They
get into scrapes of all kinds, and come out
of them in strange and amusing ways; for
there is real humor and real adventure in
the book. Nothing we have yet had brings
us quite as near to the American fighting-
man at sea as this rollicking tale.
Stuff o’ Dreams and Other Plays, by Rex
Hunter (Denison, Chicago). The most curi-
ous thing about these playlets is that they
have been actually produced. The theme of
each is slight, and the dialogue ordinary.
Thus, _ “The Wild Goose” is simply a con-
versation between a young man and a house-
maid in which he decides not to get married
because he is filled with the spirit of a wan-
derer, and Fiji happens to be mentioned.
There is nothing wrong with the handling
of the matter, as far as it goes.
Daughters of Heaven, by Victoria Cross
(T. Werner Laurie, London). A collection
of short stories in which nothing much but
death occurs. None of them is very probable ;
but some of the descriptive stuff is passable.
The Edge of Doom, by H. F. Prevost Bat-
tersby (John Lane, London). A long-
drawn-out yarn with a mystery. Julian,
who diasppears, is found in Africa living
with two black women. His girl, after
much effort, comes to love a better
man who gets a rather bad knocking about
in the war. Some of the attempts at real-
ism are unnecessarily unpleasant,
The Preventive Man, by G. V. McFadden
(John Lane). A yarn of smuggling times
which contains plenty of incident and holds
the attention. There is good character-draw-
ing and color as well as mystery and adven-
ture. A novel that is well worth while.
_ Australian Tales of the Border, by AVil-
liam McGuffin (Lothian, Melbourne). There
are a score of them, told by a pioneer of
Riverina, some of them interesting as old
pictures, others too slight to be worth tell-
ing. There is an apparently authentic story
of a long cross-country ride with Morgan,
the Riverina bushranger; and that one is
interesting if only because it suggests that
“class consciousness” isn’t a new thing, after
all —it was the fact on which this lone-
hand bushranger depended more than any-
thing except perhaps his bushcraft. Aus-
tralian Tales could have been much better
done; but storms of pioneering so badly need
doing that they deserve a welcome when
they are done at all.
Rachel Fitzpatrick, by Lady Poore (John
Lane), is a London society story with an
Irish heroine and a naval hero. The late
Australian Admiral’s clever wife is a g"od
hater —particularly of Germans and Sinn
Feiners. “Those German officers,” she
observes in one passage, “were not men, but
ill-conditioned animals, hyenas put into uni-
form and drilled.” Her German-Jew mil-
lionaire, Sir Felix Halbmond, is a stock
figure of old bellowdrama. In anticipation
of war between England and Germany he
has secretly transferred the whole of his
vast British interests to the Fatherland —
including, by some unexplained process of
financial strategy, his wife’s marriage settle-
ment —and after the Serajevo affair he bolts
to Berlin, leaving his family destitute.
Furthermore, he inveigles Rachel away with
him to destroy her. Lady Poore probably
designed the story as part of her patriotic
bit (the war wasn’t over when she wrote
it) ; but regarded as literature it is disap-
pointing.
Tisli, by Mary Roberts Rinehart (Hod-
der and Stoughton). These are featherweight
.stories of the adventures of three American
women, all more than 20, who are led into
trouble by Letitia Carberry. You don’t
have to believe the yarns: their merit lies
in the humor of the telling. If you get
through any half-dozen pages without a grin
it is time you saw a doctor about it.
The Victory of Venizelos, by Vincent J.
Seligman (Geo. Allen and Unwin). Veni-
zelos ought to have completed a trio of great
nation-builders, Cavour and Bismarck being
the other two. But each of that pair was
backed by a courageous and intensely patri-
otic monarch who supported him to the
limit. _ Venizelos had only Tino. Tino was
impossible; but when a solitary French war-
ship, the antiquated pre-Dreadnought Jus-
tice, called at the Piraeus, and invited Tino
and Queen Sophie to come aboard in an
abdicated condition, Venizelos brought his
large bald forehead back to his old job as
Prime Minister and threw Greece into the
Allied cause. He thus saved Greece from
dismemberment and recovered for it a fair
amount of old Greek territory ; but with the
free hand that Cavour and Bismarck had he
might have recovered Constantinople and
set the old Roman empire that died there in
the 15th century on its old feet again. It
all makes an absorbing story.
The Soul-Slayer, by J. M. Stuart-Young
(Stockwell, London). The story of Ibra,
the half-caste son of Ellesmere. His father
knowing the quality of the black blood in
the boy, treats him with soul-destroying
severity. Afterwards the black mother kills
Ellesmere. Graphic and vigorous in parts;
rather absurd in others.
B Hi, by R. K. Weekes (George Allen
and Unwin). A novel with a certain clever-
ness which somehow fails. There is sensa-
tion but it is not handled sensationally, and
passion which is never properly warmed up.
The four chief characters are moderately
well drawn, and they are all unusual people;
but the author does not contrive to make
any of them very interesting. The book
wastes the material for a good story.
The Inky Way
DUSTBINS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The estate of the late Charles Garvice is valued
at £71,409.” — Cable.
For writing the turgid “Paradise Lost” a fiver was
pa i<] to Milton—
A price that did not permit of bubbly wine or a
cut at the Stilton.
And Solomon wrote his Song of Love for love, and
maybe a flagon
To stay his soul when sick (unless he was on the
water-waggon),
Beethoven was paid a hundred quid for his Symphonv
in c minor,
And royalties were small for “Mac-
beth ’ and work far finer-
<«• -■
~ - -
And Schubert didn’t earn enough for sherbet and
a shave,
And most of the poets walked in broken boots to
an early grave.
1 myself have had the seat forlorn of my only pants,
While Marie Corelli sweats and raves, and Ella
Wilcox rants.
.
And Wagner borrowed and stole to buy gay gar-
. ments to cover him UP—
ke GOrn posed the Blacksmith’s Waltz in colla-
boration with Krupp.
, . . , ,
F k S * boiler ' foundry ’ and hterature
And Station's advertisement by a raucous and
stone-deaf freak
And Victor Daley left but books; and the gold of
poetry
Knows never a buyer, while garbage-cans are pur-
chased from sea to sea.
And the blackbird sings his lyric alone, and works
to earn worms and grubs,
While the Army band collects the quids from the
drunkards outside the pubs.
. ... , , _ ...
Tlie m £htingale s hungry in his wood, while the
Gi^Xd' who blows the
euphonium
For this is the fact of the ages all: the panderer
unto vice
Shall be purple-faced with the bubbly wine, while
virtue exists on rice,
And dreamer-artist who walks the world with
his head in the starry heights'
Shall starve while publishers wax rich on the chif-
fonier who writes.
Queensland.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
TWENTIETH REPORT
of the Directors, presented at the Annual General Meeting, at the Banking House, on Tuesday, 27th July, 1920, at noon.
1. We submit the Accounts for the year ended 30th June, 1920,
examined and certified to by the Auditors.
The Balance of Profit and Loss for the year, after
making ample provision for all Bad and Doubtful
Debts, deducting Rebate on Current Bills and Ex-
penses of Management, Directors’ and Auditors’
Fees, Interest on Fixed Deposits, Rates, etc.,
amounts to £206,511 17 3
Less Graduated Land and Income Taxes for the year. . 31,154 15 10
From which deduct Interest paid on Inscribed Deposits
Profit for the year
From this amount the following appro-
priations have been made :
Transfer to Reserve Fund .. . . £40,000 0 0
Transfer in reduction of Bank Premises
Account 10,000 0 0
And out of the taxable portion an In-
terim Half-yearly Dividend at the
rate of 5 per cent, per annum was
paid in January last absorbing . . £29,966 19 6
and a final Half-yearly Dividend at the
rate of 6 per cent, per annum is
now recommended, amounting to .. 36,000 0 0
65,966 19 6
Balance ..
Brought forward from last year ..
Leaving to be carried forward
which have been
£175,357 1 5
56,966 2 0
£118,390 19 5
115,966 19 6
£2,423 19 11
£26,388 17 1
.. £28.812 17 0
2. During- the year branches of the Ba nk have been opened at Bateman’s Bay,
Canterbury, Charing Cross (Waverley), Chatswood, Erskineville, North Sydney, St.
Peters; also Receiving Offices at Annandale, Artarmon, Croydon, Greta, Milson’s Point,
Merrygoen, Narrabeen, South Canterbury, Yeppoon; and the Receiving Offices at Bel
more, Ebor, Hillgrove and Stanmore have been withdrawn.
Premises have been secured at Adelaide, where a branch will be opened at an
early date, under the management of Mr. R. T. Moodie, at present manager of the
Pitt Street Branch.
3. As was foreshadowed at the last General Meeting, Mr. Mark Sheldon, relin-
quished his position on the Board to take up his duties as Commissioner for Australia
J;° r " uncan Carson, of Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., was appointed a Director
to fail the vacancy.
4. It devolves upon this meeting to elect two Directors in the places of George
James Sly and Duncan Carson, who retire in accordance with the provision of Clause
104 of the Articles of Association. Both are eligible and offer themselves for re-election.
5. In terms of Clause 171 of the Articles of Association, it also devolves upon
this meeting to elect two Auditors in the places of William H. Perry, F.C.P.A., and
William Craig, F.C.P.A., who retire. The latter is eligible, and offers himself for
i e-election. G. Mason Allard, F.C.P.A., has given notice that he is a candidate for
election m place of Mr. Perry.
11. R. LYSAGHT, Chairman.
Sydney, 21st July, 1920.
BALANCE SHEET OF THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE LIMITED.
(INCLUDING LONDON OFFICE—BY CABLE.)
30th June, 1920.
Cr.
. . LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capita]
To Capital subscribed and paid-up ..
„ Reserve Fund .. .. .. 1
„ Inscribed Deposits .. .. .. ’ | ”
„ Customers’ Deposits and other Liabilities
» Government Fixed Deposits
” 3n Circulation and other amounts payable
„ Balances due to other Banks ..
„ Profit and Loss Account:—
Balance
Brought forward from 30th June, 1919
Contingent Liabilities, consisting of Letters of Credit, etc.;
for which customers are responsible to the Bank, £995,560 14s. Id.
£2,813,657 3 7
£9,171,577 5 4
64,812 17 0
£12,050,047 5 11
„ ASSETS.
By Coin and Bullion .. .. .. . . .. £728,814 9 5
~ Australian Notes . . .. . . . . .. 789,816 10 0
„ Cash at London Bankers and at short call in London 4i5’.843 19 4
„ Government and Municipal Securities . . .. 506,827 6 2
„ Balances due by other Banks . . .. .. 358,039 7 2
» Bills Receivable in London and Remittances in
, transit 1,339,353 011
„ Advances against War Loan and under Government
guarantee 220,898 11 0
„ Bills Discounted, Loans, Advances, all other Debts due to the
Bank and other Assets ..
~ Provision in terms of Clause 163 of the Bank’s Articles of Association
„ Bank Premises . . . . .. .. .. £509,144 12 2
Less appropriation from Profits .. . 10’000 0 0
£4,359,093 4 0
7,176,809 9 9
15,000 0 0
499,144 12 2
£12,050,047 5 11
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
sdfgs
To Interest paid on Inscribed Deposits
Net Profit for the year
£56,966 2 0
118,390 19 5
To Transfer to Reserve Fund (making £200,000)
„ Transfer in reduction of Bank Premises Account
Interim Half-yearly Dividend paid
„ Final Half-yearly Dividend recommended
„ Balance to be carried down
£40,000 0 6
10,000 0 0
£36,000 0 0
2,423 19 11
£118,390 19 5
By Balance of Profit
1920 .. .
Less Graduated
and Loss for the year
Land and Income Taxes .
ended 30th June,
£206,511 17 3
31,154 15 10
£175,357
1
5
By Nett Profit for the year
£175,357 1 5
£118,390 19 5
By Balance to be brought down—after payment of £36,000 Dividend
recommended
„ Balance brought forward from last year .. !! ”
£118,390 19 5
£2,423 19 11
26,388 17 1
To be carried forward
.. £28,812 17 0
H. R. LYSAGHT, Chairman.
C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
p„ no , examined the above Balance Sheet, made up to 30th June, 1920, and report that we find the several items therein stated to conform to tho Rdo™ • +i.
General Ledger, and the Balance Sheets of the respective Branches of the Bank collectively. “ stated to conform to the Balances in the
We have counted the Cash and examined the Bills held by the Bank at the Head Office in Sydney on the 30th June 1920 and Irerphv , TT , e ,
them correct. We further certify that all Vouchers, Accounts and Documents necessary for verifying the Balance Sheet hpve been submitted us J * haVe f ° Und
, . P as il’ Bllls a nd other Securities held at the Branch Banks in New South Wales, Queensland and Victoria on the date of Balancing have boon +
being correct by the usual documents, and the figures of the Balance Sheet of the London Branch have been received by cable. 1 S b ceitified to as
T • n . t °F opinion the above is a full and fair Balance Sheet, containing the particulars required by the Articles of Association of Tho a„ 0 *. 0 i; 0 „ r> > e
meroe. Wed, and » properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true aid correct View of the state of the Company'sXVas„|own £y the BotdtAf | e Smpa“y.
Com-
WILLIAM H. PERRY. F.C.P.A.'I
WILLIAM CRAIG, F.C.P.A. f
Auditors.
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS.
m * ee « n^n° f shareholders of the Australian Bank of Commerce, Limited, was
ti«i J.+" P), - 7th Ju ] y) rv at f lle Bankm S House, George and King Streets, Sydney, Mr. Herbert R.
Lysaght, Chairman of Directors, presiding.
man lnS adoption of the Re P° rt and Balance Sheet for the year ended 30th tune, the Chair-
„»Tr ,( !t.r!l l T en ’T Th r e ? a , 1 l nce P, resented t 0 you to-day is the first that has been issued under the
custom g t ° f holdlng a Yearl y instead of a HaW-vearly Meeting, as had previously been the
nav 11 „ notice . t ! lat ,,?i ]r A con tinue to show expansion. The total figures are now
as against £11,050,535 12 months ago, an increase of almost exactly £1,000,000.
Cash and Bullion are practically the same, Australian Notes are £187,000 greater, Cash at Lon-
n and at short-call has increased £195,000. Government and Municipal Securities are more
t **!i and Balances due by other Banks have increased by £92,000, while Bills discounted,
£361 000 dVanCeS and ° ther ° ebtS t 0 the Bank £7 > 176 ’ 000 > as against £6,815,000, an increase of
On the liability side, the Reserve Fund is now £200,000, having been increased by £40,000.
Customers Deposits and other Liabilities have been increased by £887,000, Bills in Circulation are
now £991,000, as against £739,000, and Balances due to other Banks £71,000, as against £220,000.
Our holding of Liquid Assets is satisfactory, amounting to £4,359,000, and is equal to 9s. sd. in
the £, as against 9s. Id. 12 months ago. ,
The results for the year are, £206,511, reduced by payment of graduated Land and Income
o'™ £ • ’ and a ter P a y men t of interest on Inscribed Deposits the Nett Profit amounts to
£118,390, which is an increase of £21,135 on the Nett Profits for the previous 12 months. This
increase would have been considerably more had it not been for the large depreciation during the
year m Government Stocks, which the Board has considered it wise to fully provide for out of the
Profits.
There has been a small increase in the Capital of the Bank since last Meeting, opportunity having
been taken when the shares were quottd above par to dispose of 1321 new shares, thus making the
paid up Capital £1,200,0'00. The small surplus of about £93, after paying Brokers’ Commission, is
included in amount transferred to Reserve Fund.
It will be noticed that £lO,OOO has been placed in reduction of Premises Account, but that
this account is still higher than it was in our last Balance Sheet. This has been brought about bv
tbe purdhase of the premises occupied by our Bank in Collins Street, Melbourne. We were faced
with the alternative of either having to find new premises or of buying those we now occupy, and,
as the price asked was a reasonable one, it was decided to purchase. The position for our business
is an excellent one, and our progress in Melbourne since we opened, four years ago has been verv
encouraging indeed. ’
1 ™ a y sa 7 he J e tha .l tbe Board’s general policy with regard to Bank premises is to keep these
down to the lowest possible point in view of the heavy taxation we have to pay under the Graduated
Land lax.
• Branch of the Bank is shortly to be opened at Adelaide, suitable premises, in a central position
having been secured on lease. ’
Since Peace was declared, continued reference has been made by leading men throughout the
Empire as to the necessity foe economy in every direction with the view of restoring the finances
world to a sound basis ; and indeed so often has this appeal been made that there seems some
likelihood of its losing its force through constant repetition. At the same time, we think that every
suitable opportunity should be taken to emphasise this need for rigid economy, both by public authori-
ties as well as by individuals.
, , an<J , Loa ’! indebtedness at the present time amounts to nearly £800,000,000, and
SSI °”l y th f e ■ I f era + 1, but practically, all the State Governments, are in the market for further loans.
The rate of interest payable on a large portion of the money borrowed is a high one and all con-
Y™Hn f u hlCh Wlll h l s ? me £400,000,000 during the next few years, g must, from present
indications, be made at even higher rates. ’ ’ p
If we also take into consideration the amount 0 f borrowings bv M.in,‘final -A, „ i.t . j-
it must be evident to all, when the facts are faced thatuni el nnr fin— Other. Public bodies,
handled, the interest payable may become so heavy ’ a burden 0 „ the communltv P *' U f* h
expansion of the States in production, trade and commerce will be verv adverselv iff the , nat V tal
results to all classes of the community must follow. 6 6 y adversely affected - and serious
cannot live without the country”; and the solution “ the present dSt vnJZ £? fl tO T
looked for from the country.- Every effort, therefore, should be made to make the path of those'on the
land as easy as possible, and to encourage in everv possible wav an inrrpasl A ° . e ?, n th . e
Pastoral and Mineral production of the Commonwealth increase m the Agricultural,
ttat the money i» urgently negnir.d foe Eep.trlM,„ n .ndottee “neJSS
We are pleased to be able to state that the drought in New 7T tne , war \
recently completely broken, although it is to be rigrct ed that this !n snnfe diX . Q uee f ? nd haS
siderable loss of stock through floods. In spite, however of the relief thTs T'
the Pastorahsts is unfortunately not too bright owing to the uncertainty with reo-nrd*! °“ tlook i° r
wool consumption and the want of adequate shipping Ldlfties te beef from WOrld S
The area under Wheat this year in New South Wales so Vr as wp w Q ueensdand ;
is a little in excess of last year ' wuin waies, so tar as we have been able to ascertain,
gress in this direction! y g competent labor has somewhat militated against pro-
p P'] 1 ".'r tke year b ® sa ' ar .' ea the s f a ® bave b ad the careful consideration of the Directors and
General Manager, and the high cost o living ha s always been kept in view when these
Our policy has throughout been that it is essential in the interests of the Rank ‘ «ii
ot ler considerations, that the staff should be well paid, and should participate with’the shareholders
in every improvement in the earning capacity of the Bank. * snarenoiaers
f.n m p°!!ifi° f £ e ?' r ,’® P l,O some provision has been made towards pensions for Officers, who do not
to each year.^ 6 S ordinary P ension scheme, and it is proposed that this amount should be added
rUfpp+ipt Shareholders will be pleased to learn that the Bank is making good progress in every
tbp Rpar’,l tf'H, 18 gradua ? ly buildrng up a satisfactory reserve. While pursuing a conservative policy,
six months, at tteTte of! pel cent pe'r * slightly ‘ increased "vidend for the last
The motion for the adoption of the Report and Balance Sheet was seconded by Dr. Sly and
carried unanimously. J auu
P C l> )f \ G aml ge Mv an p S m 7 ™” d Aiwi D tr n ri a S A Carson were re-elected Directors, and Mr. William Craig,
F.G.P.A., and Mr. G. Mason Allard, P.C.P.A.. were appointed Auditors.
'i n . of , r thal l ks t°. * he Directors and Officers of the Bank was moved by Mr. Kelso King.
Seconded by Mr. P. Shnley Chapman and carried unanimously
The Chairman stated that the dividend is now payable,
of Directors meetmg ° f Board held subs equently, Mr. Herbert R. Lysaght was re-elected Chairman


“THERE’S MANY A SLIP
’TWIXT CUP AND LIP.”
Take no risks
with your W /fj
when it reaches market.
Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
ta
S ■
dfg
KEEPS CONTENTS
Ice-Cold 72 hrs. Hot 24 hrs.
cs
’howing
Bottle
lie-mounted
Made in various
size s and styles
from y 2 -pint up.
Icy-Hot Bottles are
ideal for all climates
and are made for
hard usage.
Extra Protection is
ensured by a coiled
spring and pad under
bottle which absorbs
jolts and jars and
makes the bottle
practically unbreak-
able.
Absolutely
Sanitary,
because the
spring - tight
neck - fitting
prevents
leakage of liquid into the outer
case.
The Name ICY-HOT clearly
stamped on the bottom of each
bottle is a guarantee of the
Standard of Perfection.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES.
Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
The ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.,
159 West Second Street,
r | !«,/>;nnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Icy-Hot Jar
for solid food
jlf you must
(rear baby by hand
adopt a food which approaches
most closely to Mother’s Milk,
and which yields positive results.
Mellin's Food is the tried and
proved equivalent to Mother’s
Milk; its success is evidenced
by world-wide recommendation.
Simple to prepare; no tedious
cooking —it is alike a boon to
the nursing mother and satis-
fying to the child.
Food
Write now for sample of Mellin’s Food and
-s useful Handbook—’The Care of Infants’—Free.
Then there’s his Bottle Mellin’s Feeding
-*» Bottle is the perfect and simple Feeder.
Messrs. Gollin Co. Proprietary, Ltd.
Sydney
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
MACNIVE N ft CAME RON L°
’' G OIjDE N"WAT T liE
EDINBURGH,
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & “
CAMERON LIP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
£
THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN."
NC
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
fs
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
rf
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust-Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES-Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Buildings.
A PERFECT
SHAVE.
It’s British.
mm
Christopher Johnson & Co.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Their Famous Full Hollow-Ground
Metropolitan Razor.
PRICE 10/0,
Of all Stores.
NORMAN
If unable to procure send Postal Note to their Agents*
BAKER & LONGHURST, 50 York Street, SYDNEY.
328 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
scr
BALL
BEARINGS
BIG STOCKS
NOW ON HAND.
We have quite recently landed from the Afrika, the
Danish-built motor-ship, and also from the Tasmanic,
large stocks of the Swedish type S.K.F. bearings, as
well as a considerable quantity of the English type
of S.K.F. Bearings by the P. & O. Boat.
Full particulars supplied to all requiring
information relative to the use of these
world-famous Bearings in connection with
their machinery, together with details as
to methods of handling, mounting, lubrica-
tion and maintenance.
Write to the nearest address.
SKF
i
GARDNER,
WON
& CObj
Power & Light
Engineers.
MELBOURNE-
-314 City Road.
SYDNEY-
-225 Clarence St,
BRISBANE-
-367 Queen Street-
Showrooms—
-369 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE.
URODONAL
The Great French Remedy for Gout, Rheumatism, Gravel, Calculi,
Obesity, Acidity, Arterio-Sclerosis. ,
lillll
VA
i
The age of a man is the age of his arteries. Keep your arteries young by
taking URODONAL, and you will thereby avoid Arterio-Sclerosis, which
hardens the walls of the blood vessels and renders them stiff and brittle.
THE SIGN OE THE TEMPORAL ARTERY.— (Dieulafey’s Temporal
Sign.) “If you should see between the eye and the root of the hair,
under the wrinkled and withered skin of the temples, a kind of hard,
bluish and knotted cord protruding, be on your guard, for you are
threatened with senility. It does not matter if you have not a white hair;
your arteries are growing old. It is necessary to act immediately. Purify
your blood of the poisonous substances which taint it, and especially of
the most dangerous of all, viz., Uric Acid.”
Dr. J. D. S. BOTAUi
DISSOLVES URIC ACID as easily as warm
water dissolves sugar!
PREPARED BY ETABLISSEMENTS CHATEDAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 10/9.
From all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australia.
Booklet containing Medical Opinions can be obtained from Cliatelain’s
AUSTRADIAN AGENCY: 352 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
[3
A friend, out walking with
her three-year-old daughter, passed two semi-
detached houses identical in every particu-
lar, and with front doors only separated by
a fence. At one door, which was open,
stood a woman. Said the infant: “Oh,
mummie, look at the woman who’s living
next door to herself!”
“Narrung”: A friend of mine decided to
divorce a wife whose paranoic outbreaks
gladdened the neighborhood, but the lady got
in first. He now pays a weekly amount to
the Prothonotary for alimony. A few weeks
ago he got a cheque back with a sharp pro-
test against “the unseemly levity of your
last communication.” His misdemeanor
consisted in making the cheque payable to
“Blood Money.”
“Digger Too”: It is doubtful whether pro-
longing a war widow’s pension for two years
after re-marriage does as much good as harm.
In a recent case a woman hysterically
applied for the reinstatement of her pen-
sion on the ground that the blackguard who
married her had absconded directly the pen-
sion ceased. Obviously she would have been
better off had there been no bribe —paltry
as it was—to induce a loafer to wed her.
And this is not the only case of the kind
that the Department has had to wrestle
with.
“Apprentice”: A Plain English article
“The Apprentice” (B. 15/7/’2O) cheers me
at my bench. If Australia wants to pro-
gress industrially it must see that appren-
tices get a living wage. I am indentured
in Victoria as an engineering apprentice,
and niv wages are: First year, 65.; second
year, 10s.; third year, 12s. 6d.; fourth,
17s. -6d.; fifth, 255.; sixth, 355.; seventh,
455. This rate may have been all right
when it was framed; but since signing my
agreement wages for unbound apprentices
have increased 40 p.c., and six years has
been made the specified time for completing
the apprenticeship. In N. S. Wales all rises
granted by Wages Boards are paid to bound
as well as unbound apprentices; but here
in Victoria it is optional for the employer
to pay it, and that means it is very seldom
paid.
Dissatisfied with the College of Divinity
established for their benefit by State Act a
few years ago, the Vic. Protestant Churches
now want an amendment of the Uni. Bill
to allow degrees in divinity to be conferred
by the University. Hindley, Leeper, Adam
and a few more reverends and irreverends
who rub it into Rome when they get a
chance urged that one-fifth of the popula-
tion shouldn’t be considered when it was
sought to unsecularise the Uni. The Scotcli-
byterian Hutchinson drew from the deputa-
tion that when it came to the endowment of
a chair for teaching theology the churches
would plank down the £30,000. On that
understanding Cabinet consideration of the
subject was promised. Weighted with a
sectarian issue of this kind, the Uni. Bill
looks like a .thing of the distant future—say,
for the next Parliament.
“1876” : The decision of the High Court
in Jackson v Commissioner of Taxation
looks like proving another nasty pill for the
Federal Taxation Department. That rest-
less institution contended that the provisions
of the Estates Duty Assessment Act ex-
empting from duty so much of an estate as
is bequeathed for charitable purposes ex-
tended only to bequests for such objects
within Australia, and insisted on duty being
paid on bequests to institutions outside the
Commonwealth. In most cases the amount
in dispute was small, and - the costs to an
objecting party would be great. Therefore
no one has hitherto. bothered to have the
point tested. But in Jackson’s case the
majority of the Bench has decided that for
the purpose of exemption from duty it is
immaterial where the benefiting charity is
situated. Will the Commonwealth now
gracefully disgorge the money that it has
obtained from the public by falsely pretend-
ing that the law was what it isn’t?
“Derwent”: The Speck’s State school-
teachers’ union met the other day and form-
ally accented the new salaries classification
(an all-round rise costing £55,000) at the
hands of Education Minister Lee. The Pre-
mier handed the teachers a severe lecture at
the same time for having threatened a strike.
They did their best to appear justly rebuked,
but failed so badly that the small knight
considerately directed most of his condemna-
tory remarks at the ceiling for fear some of
his hearers would explode under the strain.
A body of State servants who had just won
£55,000 worth of victory from a procrastinat-
ing Government could hardly be so un-
generous as to deny the Premier’s assertion
that the threat of direct action was un-
necessary and “highly reprehensible.” So
the teachers let it go at that, sqnt the Min-
ister off with a vote of thanks, and then
promptly carried a resolution of sympathy
with and congratulation to the striking
State servants of Westralia.
. “7253”: For the theft of a purse contain-
ing one halfpenny, a Victorian malefactor
got three months. This is as it should be.
Theft is theft, and should be dealt with
irrespective of the material damage done.
But surely there is something accidental in
this example of legal efficiency. Last Sep-
tember I went into partnership with Bogus.
He took three hundred pounds of my war-
earnings, and gave me nothing in return.
When the dawn came I groped my way to
a solicitor and told him. “Well, you have
been dealt with!” he exclaimed. “What’s
the fellow 7 ’s name?” I mentioned it. “What!”
he gasped, bouncing from his chair. Then
I laughed, relieved to see daylight at last.
When Six-and-eight had recovered his breath
he went on to tell me that Bogus had caught
another returned man, who had paid a
hundred pounds for his lesson. I had many
interviews with Six-and-eight after that (I
have just received the bill), and it was
eventually decided that this “flagrant and
scandalous affair” was a case for the Crim-
inal Investigation Department. To the
C.I.D. accordingly, and a further series of
interviews. They concluded, after having
gone to the length of drafting a warrant for
the arrest of Bogus, that, “technically
speaking.” there really wasn’t any case
against Bogus. Bogus therefore goes scot-
free, and is brazen as ever; while I continue
to receive bills from his creditors, who want
to know what I am prepared to do about it.


At no time was it ever more
necessary to safeguard one’s health
than at present. Life is strenuous
and the cost of living is high. Apart from the various
expenses incurred through sickness one cannot afford
to be laid up unnecessarily. It is therefore of the
utmost importance to use every care while the health
is good instead of waiting until a breakdown occurs.
There is no better method of maintaining good health
than by a regular dose of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. They are not advertised as a “Cure All” but
as a safe and sure remedy for the little ills of life, for
which they are unexcelled. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills have now been before the Australian public for
a quarter of a century, and owing to their unquestion-
able merit they are gaining in popularity all the time.
Make One Feel Brighter.


fs
f
Holeproofs are made bp
scientific methods, de-
veloped only in recent
pears.
ODearers of Holeproof know
the comfort and con-
venience of alwaps having
perfect Ho sierp soft,
neatlp-fitting, stplish.
These qualities are all em-
bodied in
“ HOLEPROOF”
HOSIERY.
Special methods of knitting
Holeproofs multiply their
durability.
If your dealer cannot supply
you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltb.
56 York Street :: Sydney.
Waratah
IMG
1(1 u
Jlllto
vyi.n
M
Yields to Neither
Beast nor Weather
War at ah Fencing: Wire strains
tighter and has greater strength
because it is made from finest
grade iron ore. It also costs less
than imported wires.
Get Booklet N. 19.
AUSTRAL NAIL CO. PTY. Ltd.
'\ !
310 Flinders Street.
Melbourne, VIC.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
SMiTSSB
MADE
Perfection
PITSK RUBBER.
Ne wßiscuits
We claim for our Now Biscuits
that they are quite the best in
the Southern World. Why not?
We buy the best flour, the best
butter, the best sugar, and we can
certainly bake to perfection. Add
to these the satisfied, contented
condition of the workers under the
humane conditions of Australian
Labor, and the natural corollary
is success.
So we say try Joyce’s New Bis-
cuits because they are the Best in
Quality, Purity and Manufacture.
Tour grocer keeps them. Try
a tin to-day.
Sixty varieties
JOYCE & CO., LTD.
CAMPERDOWN.
SOMETHING NEW
“2UE PIONEER 7 £NGO~FLKTER
LET YOUR ENGINE PUMP YOUR TYRES
Save yourself the hard work of pumping your tyres by foot
or by hand—and every motorist knows what a back-aching
job that is. Do it better and more quickly by using the
PIONEER ENGINE TYRE PUMP
It does the work in three to four
minutes. It pumps pure air only,
free absolutely from oil or vapor.
The “Flutor” gauge is a perfect
compression tester. You can tell
at a glance when your tyre is
“right.”
This is the best and most simple
tyre-pump devised. It is easily
attached in place Of a spark-plug or
exhaust valve cap. Just write to
us for particulars to find how really
simple it is.
SOLE WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS FOR AUSTRALIA:
S. SMITH & SONS (M.A.) LTD
Portland House, 30-32 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
And at 109 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
si
ammii
’lajH.
fills lb
C anno
Cleans 1
R-egula
British'
|elf.
Ask for ONOTO l*iT s=s?^^<Uf ®‘
"'Best for all Pens
“ Foursquare to
all the winds
that blow”
\
- ■
Face the world with a glad heart and a good courage —be ready
for anything and everything as it comes along. The man or
woman who is always ready is the one who is always fit —for
whom no task is too hard, no responsibility too great. Regularity
of habit is the secret of such “ all-readiness ” —Kruschen Salts, the
famous home remedy for all those minor ills which militate
against vigour or body and alertness of mind, is the secret of
such regularity. The Kruschen Habit makes you fit and keeps
you fit as nothing else does —it acts as a gentle reminder to the
liver, kidneys and eliminative system generally to the daily per-
formance of their vital functions—with these organs working
well and regularly the health-efficiency of mind and body is
assured. Get the Kruschen Habit —persevere with it—and
know the joy of life 1
s
AUSTRALIAN
PPIOF
2/6
OK! -Oil!
fs
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents *
MESSRS. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Proprietors, E. Griffiths Hughes (Kruschen) Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England
A new feature in feminine journalism is
being worked by an English black-and-white
artist, Phyllis Kermode. She does the Rugby
football international games in a series of
sketches, dramatic and humorous, in London ,
Bystander.
Loose administration is no new feature of
Victorian prisons. When three prisoners
escaped one night from Castlemaine, Jack
Murray, who was then Chief Sec., asked
what all the hue-and-cry was about—didn’t
the public know that it was only the for-
bearance of the prisoners that kept the whole
lot from walking out? And John’s gibe was
no more bitter than Bent’s later descrip-
tion of Pentridge as a “club.”
“Old Red”: When Knibbs is taking the
census next year he might insert a question
in the papers requiring Japanese women to
state how long they have been resident in
Australia (notably up Thursday Island
way) before the birth of their children.
Australia might thus get some information
from which interesting deductions could be
made. Australian-born children have cer-
tain rights, remember—even though the
mother was only on a “visit” at the time of
the youngster’s birth.
“That’s pool- encouragement for Green-
wood,” said Alec Peacock, with mock sym-
pathy, when Lawson admitted in the Vic.
Assembly that neither the Opposition Leader
nor any other private member had much
chance of getting a bill through this session.
Greenwood, uncrowned king of the Cold Tea
party in the Assembly, is bent on clearing
the road for Prohibition campaigners by re-
pealing the requirement that at a local op-
tion poll a majority of three-fifths must be
secured to carry no-license. A majority of
the House as now constituted is against the
amendment, and Cold Tea will have to do
the best it can with the loaded clause.
An experimental trial of road-haulage be-
tween Melbourne and Ballarat (72 miles)
was made lately. A motor-lorry with two
tons on board ran out in 54 hours, and on
the return trip brought back two tons of
tweed in hours. For the 72 miles back
the lorry ate up seven gallons of benzine,
costing 295. 4d. It isn’t claimed that motor
transport is cheaper than rail yet, but it
cuts out two handlings and the carting to
and from the railway-station at each end.
Besides, it saves a lot of time, for the
Vic. railways may take anything from two
to 10 days to deliver goods from Ballarat
at Melbourne, and it is reckoned that pil-
lage will also be reduced. So our per-
manent and reproductive railways get
another jolt; and the absence of the sink-
ing fund to wipe out the capital debt be-
comes a trifle more conspicuous.
“Val”: The Hok-kien Chinese who dress
the crude tin from the dredges in the Malay
States and Siam can show most of us points.
The “No. 1” is usually an expert dry-blower
and siever. Using the dry-blowing method, I
have seen him determine as little as | p.c. of
oxide in the skimps in 20 minutes. A Euro-
pean would get the same result —an hour
later. The sieve, about 100 mesh and three
inches diam., is used for determining the
purity of the dressed ore. This is usually
between 70 and 72 per cent, oxide. He takes
a weighed quantity in his sieve, and rotates
it partly under water with a motion that
brings the impurities into a conical heap at
the centre of the surface. This heap he
pinches out with his thumb-nail, and the
operation is continued until only the pure
oxide remains. His most troublesome im-
purity is monazite, or nehee, which in Hok-
kien means yellow.
At a Labor Conference the other day, a
delegate, referring to the world-wide atten-
tion now being focussed on proposals for
direct control of industries by the workers,
mentioned the operations of some of the
Boards set up under the Whitley Commis-
sion’s report. Whereupon a Labor M.L.A.
replied contemptuously that the Whitley Com-
mission was merely an American institution!
One of the first signs of a dawning intelli-
gence in a church i* its insistence on a
decent standard of learning in its priests, and
the sooner Labor, political and industrial,
inserts a night-school clause in the pledge it
asks its officials to sign the better. A con-
gregation that remains gullible enough to
swallow all the piffle which its least cultured
preacher chooses to spout from the pulpit is
calling tenders for a catastrophe.
The cry of an Australian in London: —
This market is being flooded with tip-top Austra-
lian jam, but it is shockingly packed, or, rather,
displayed. I enclose two labels to illustrate this.
I soaked them off tins bought in a shop in London
this week —both 270 z. tins of jam for Is. 2d., which
is very cheap indeed as prices go. You will see how
much better for display purposes the S’African label
is. And the jam is quite as good as ours. The
Australian label has a grim, dark background. The
strawberries on it suggest strawberry jam; yet the
stuff inside is quince. The same illustration
is, indeed, used for all kinds of jam. The paper
has not been varnished, and hence gets rusty and
damaged and ugly. The most conspicuous words,
“first pick,” are childish ; what’s the use of a silly
pun like that on a tin of jam? And chickens —what
have chickens to do with the case? The whole idea
is just silly!
Every jam-label—indeed, every label on every bit
of stuff we send over here —ought to be an adver-
tisement for Australia and the Australians, and an
invitation to go to a country where life is bright
and comfortable and the people know how to make
it so. That’s what the Californian fruit-tin labels
suggest. But our stuff —quite as good in many
respects, though it could be better still sometimes—
comes here put up in an amateurish way. There’s
not enough pride about the way we send it.
And we ought to do the sales-job ourselves. We
throw tons and tons of our goods down here and let
these little shop-people and small traders muck it
about as they like. I bought some S. Australian
honey last week at about one-third- the price of
“English” honey—just because it was “Australian” !
Yet the S. Aus. article in a glass jar was miles
better than the alleged local variety grown in Kent
—which tasted mainly of sea-fog and bees’ legs. We
want our own shops here, just as we had our own
A.I.F. canteens, to sell only Australian-grown stuff
of Government-guaranteed quality; and we want the
whole chain complete from the Australian-grower to
the English consumer.
And not only to consumers in England. Why
doesn’t Westralia build up its trade direct with
Ceylon and India and Egypt? If we had a direct
Australian-owned line of steamers to Suez and back
once or twice a month, and perhaps weekly later on,
we could capture the whole of the trade there, and
get back-freights all the time.


“How to Win Life’s Creat Race
A Charming Smile and a Handsome Face.”
Rexona
Soap
Makes
You
Happy
and
Beautiful
til
! •
i*
*
11 \
W N
L \
F
mm: I
' 'JIB
■ ■
v
■
Rexona
Soap
Gives
Natural
Beauty
to Skin
8 Hair
Miss DOROTHY
H AWT REE, a
charming Rexona
girl (from a
photo by
Grace Bros.).
REXONA SOAP for HEALTH and BEAUTY.
Why not be a Rexona Girl? Rexona and Rexona Soap ensure that clear, fresh skin and beautiful hair which go so far
to give any girl that natural charm and beauty which is her rightful heritage.
To shampoo or wash the hair with Rexona Soap is an easy task, but the results are startling. It leaves the hair in such
a beautiful condition, the scalp perfectly clean and wholesome. The hair becomes light and fluffy, waving about the face in
abundance, as beautiful hair should always appear. Rexona Soap leaves a delicate perfume, invigorating the roots of the hair,
which prevents greyness. A few shampoos with Rexona Soap effectively remove every trace of dandruff or loose and falling
hair. Ladies who use it for the hair say that Rexona Soap is far better than any of the so-called hair tonics.
Rexona Soap and Ointment are universal favorites with everyone who values a pure and healthy skin. The longer you
neglect your skin the harder it will be to care for it. Delay may result in Eczema, Ringworm, Running
m
'777777/
7777777;
mm
777 s
m
w&
m
77
'7/s
'/s'/s.
m
%
mmmm
m
CUANSt? *
MEALS AHO
Pllßlfrfc^.
I
TOILET. BATI
& NURSERY
SKIN & FACIAL /j
m
MEDICATED SOAP
%
m
m
Rexona Proprietary company
Sydney.N.S.W.
MMM
m
V/7.
Sores, or some of the many and unpleasant forms that
skin trouble so often assumes.
Rexona the Rapid Healer and Rexona Soap
are sure preservatives for the health and skin.
Rexona Soap keeps the skin soft and pure, and
Rexona the Rapid Healer will immediately eradi-
cate any disease which may be apparent, for it
arouses the skin to healthy activity, so that
it quickly recuperates.
Buy a tablet of Rexona Soap from your
chemist or storekeeper. It is beautifully put
up and sold at 1/- per tablet, or obtainable
in dainty boxes containing three tablets.
Rexona is supplied only in triangular pots, at
1/6, or in larger pots, holding nearly four
times the quantity, at 3/-
,-oolind,. Vs
pfoolKiixg.- '
Healing
0uM ei $ /Ibsolately
f 6 Heals j Reliable
df
THE RAPID HEALER
A Reliable Remedy for all eruptions and irritations of the v
Skin, Eczema.Pimples.Sores. Chilblains. Chapped Hands.
Sciatica, itching or Bleeding Piles. Cuts. Burns. Bruises. Sca|ds,
Bad Legs.. Slings of Insects and all kinds of Inflammation
m
„Sole Proprietors•-


cs
Cuticura Ointment
Is So Good For The Skin
For eczemas, rashes, pimples, irri-
tations, itchings, chafings and dan-
druff on scalp, as well as for cuts,
wounds, bruises and bites and stings
of insects, Cuticura Ointment is truly
wonderful. It is so soothing and
healing, especially when assisted by
Cuticura Soap. First bathe the af-
fected parts with Cuticura Soap and
hot water. Dry gently and anoint
with Cuticura Ointment. This treat-
ment is best on rising and retiring.
For sample each address: “R. Towns &
Co.. Sydney, N. S. W.” Sold everywhere.
•S®SF“Cuiicura Soap shaves without mug.
williams
Dental Cream
a
'T'HE regular use of Will-
iams’ Dentalactic Dental
Cream means fine, well-
cared for teeth, which ex-
press health and
refinement. Will-
tams'Dental-
actic Dental
Cream is a per-
fect dentifrice
and an efficient
antiseptic
which preserves
he teeth, keeps
them clean and
beautiful, and
kills the danger-
ous germs in
the mouth and
throat, keeping
them in a fine,
healthy condition.
Sold by Chemists
Everywhere.
Send 179 i n
stamps to Wil-
liams, Box 98
G.P.0., Sydney,
for full-sized
tube, post free.
W. 6
ORbi
m
•V.V.I
Williams!
ADt Denialac!ic'"l
B fC.u.s.eaT. Off-
Den fa I
Cream
JB
THE
-> B.wiluams co
I
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Room 5j 2nd Floor, 227 Collins St., Melbourne
LADIES! GENTS! CONFECTIONERS!
Make Sweets at One-third the Price
you now pay for them.
The man or woman who has not the courage to
make a business venture, and the grit and determina-
tion to push it to success, will always be found
the underpaid servant of the fellow who did have
the courage to make a start. Home confectionery
manufacturing by our system offers the greatest
opportunity in the country to-day for engaging
in business for yourself with only a couple of pounds
capital. The following few lines may help many of
you who have been hit rather hardly by the new rise
in prices of confectionery to write for details of our
instructionKEEP A-GOIN’.
When you strike a thorn or rose
Keep a-goin’.
When it hails or when it snows,
Keep a-goin’.
’Tain’t no use to sit and whine
When the fish ain’t on your line:
Bait your hook and keep on tryin’—
Keep a-goin’.
For particulars write to
R. & E. CROAKER,
Confectionery Instructors,
UNIVERSAL CHAMBERS,
325 COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
To those in Victoria.—Our Showrooms are open
daily from 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. Inspection invited.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
PARSONS
Marine and
Stationary
OIL ENGINES
efcs
Made in Sizes
from 7 h.p.
to 90 h.p.
KEROSENE
or
PETROL.
14-h.p. Marine Set.
ROBERT GRANT,
63 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
©
o DIO
*2**
pftwnr.
r
d
All Hotels end
licensed Stores
WHISKY
Mild, Mellow, Fully Matured
—a Liquor you’ll Appreciate
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
WIRELESS.
“EXPANSE” LOOSE COUPLER.
\XT lEELESS MEN! This Coupler is a record-
* * breaker. Only five guineas, and it’s an instru-
ment of such good design and workmanship that
everybody wants one.
Get one NOW and start right.
THE AUSTRALECTRIC CO.,
97 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
267 Swanston Street,
MELBOURNE.
Are You Weed Farming?
TREES AND SCRUB
ST. JOHN’S WORT
BLACKBERRIES
THISTLES FERNS
BOXTHORN, GORSE
COUCH, RAGWORT
FURZE SORREL
WEEDS of every kind
The great majority of Farmers, Orchardists, and
others to-day are allowing Thistles, Sorrel, Couch
Grass, and a hundred other pests to shade, choke,
and crowd out useful plants and grasses, allowing
them to absorb the soil moisture, rob the plant
food in the ground, increase the cost of every opera-
tion in the preparing of the land, in the seeding,
cultivating, harvesting, and marketing of their
crops. In short, they’re Weed Farming.
Blackberries, Boxthorn, St. John’s Wort, and Rag-
wort are in undisputed possession of thousands
of acres of valuable country, mostly because their
3
""ssss:
a
POISON
SCB 1
EED
Tree K
D 'RtCT
CO
ucco
’••Mil Mil
Manufactured in
Australia by
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY . BRISBANE
eradication is considered impossible or
too laborious.
But, is their extermination impossible ?
Not a bit of it, Mr. Landholder! Granted
you have used every conceivable means in
vain—have you ever used
"VALLO” Weed, Scrub
and Tree Killer ?
Have you heard that in all parts of
Australia “Vallo” has effectively killed
every kind of Noxious Growth to which
it has been applied—Blackberries, Box-
thorn, St. John’s Wort all included ?
‘‘Vallo” is the easiest, handiest, and most
economical Weed, Scrub, and Tree Killer
procurable. It’s in powder form, very
soluble, and is used as a spray.
Prices:, 56 lbs. 70/-, 15 lbs. 21/3,
7 lbs. 10/6, 1 lb. 2/-, i lb. 1/3.
Postage : Within the State, 1 lb. 9d., 1 lb. 6d. extra.
Interstate. 1 lb. 1/2, 4 lb. Bd. extra.
Determj ned to shift Lawson, the Age
keeps pec king at him, sometimes in two
leaders a day; but he sits tight. Labor and
the Farmers’ Union are causing the Liberals
to huddle closer together as polling-day
approaches:, and nobody else has yet been
picked to hold the sheltering umbrella.
Twenty yoars ago a virulent attack by the
Age on a (Liberal Premier would have caused
a crisis, but in these latter days it has
its influence by over-indulgence in
scolding.
“Brokef”: A Victorian distillery manu-
factures idry gin of a quality which has
gained for it championship prizes in Hol-
land. But when any comparison is made
with well-known British products, it fails
to find a backer. The secret of imparting
to it the elusive perfumed character which
dominates the imported article has not yet
been discovered, though local chemists,
analysts and experts have diligently; sought
for it. I took part recently in a series of
experiments intended to conquer this diffi-
culty, and after a month of tasting pure
Australian gin, plus caramel, eau de cologne,
caraway-seed, mandarin, lemon, citron,
orange-peel, vanilla, juniper, quassia chips,
"starboard light” and the like, we had to
confess defeat. The mystery of what blend
or flavor has to be re-distilled into it (for
that is half the secret) and what exquisite
decoction was used by the original London
distillers has yet to be discovered. A fine
fat fee waits' for some languishing chemist
if he gets within coo-ee of it.
“Hamer”: It was a most pathetic case.
The lady explained tremulously that her hus-
band was in the agonies of a complaint that
only brandy might relieve; and, as the hotels
were closed, he would perish miserably unless
she could secure a drop of spirits from
sympathetic people who kept some in the
house. We only had whisky ; but we poured
a liberal quantity into a bottle, and handed
it over. We suspected nothing until an
acquaintance, who called later, said indig-
nantly that some provision should be made
for sick people to get spirits in cases of
urgency. She explained that she had given
a woman who came to her door with the
story of a husband expiring in agony a
modicum of port wine. It must have been
a regal drunk. At midnight the police re-
moved two disturbers of the peace, male apd
female, and the assorted smells that lin-
gered about the little pile of bottles dis-
covered on the vacant allotment where the
capture was made indicated the diversified
preferences in the way of liquid refreshments
of the people in our neighborhood.
“Bouragi”: “Dolphin,” writing of South
Sea pearling, recalls the existence of a flour-
ishing pearl-fishing industry which, in addi-
tion to being about the closest corporation
I know of, is never even heard of by the
man in the street or even the bloke in the
lane. It doesn’t advertise or maintain ex-
pensive offices in Australia or anywhere else.
It is the Greek colony in the D’Entre-
casteaux Group, off South-eastern Papua.
Founded some 30 years ago by the late
Nicolas Minister, it has always managed to
keep the rich pearl trade of the Trobriands
in its own hands, the air of the locality
being unhealthy for anyone outside the ring.
The colony is recruited by importations from
Greece. Most of the finest-colored pearls in
the world—pink, yellow and black—come
from the Trobriands. Before the war the
Greeks sold to German and French buyers
who visited them at Samarai or at the Tro-
briands. What the annual values are no
one knows, for the Greeks do not take kindly
to filling in official returns. Incidentally,
they have succeeded in debauching the local
natives as no white community in Papua
has ever done. Isolated and unchecked as
they were, they made the Group a hotbed
of venereal disease until, in 1907, the Gov-
ernment had to instal a special medical offi-
cer to save the remnant of the natives. If
ever Dr. Bellamy writes a book on his
experiences, it should be placed forcibly in
every wowser’s library.
A lady-banker’s views on a new union
We are not looking forward with any special
pleasure to the new order which has caused such
enthusiasm amongst its promoters that they propose
to celebrate the victory by a great beano at the
Town Hall. The union is not likely to do us any
good by improving our status, or raising pur screw
to enable us the more easily to face our profiteering
landlady every Monday; on the contrary, there is
undoubtedly an undercurrent of hostility (occasion-
ally even a flowing tide) among the male clerks
towards their sister-officer. When not openly hostile
they take refuge in cheap sarcasm at our expense,
often alluding to us as the “heads,” and the goat
of the office, usually an untidy recruit in baggy
pants, will chortle at us at closing time when we
are making a hunt for the elusive sprat that often
ruins our daily “balance,” and quote Garvice or
some other idiot; and when we have been repri-
manded for some alleged offence, often the fault of
a superior male, this idiot will raise a roar by
standing over his victim, hands in pockets, and say-
ing with an exasperating grin, “Eat that and leave
no crumbs.”
This sort of male clerk believes that we are poach-
ing on his preserves; in fact, that any job a man
wants is his preserve. At the worst he assumes
that our real object is to snare a husband. For
the most part we prefer single poverty to married
poverty, and therefore cannot be accused of having
any arriere pensee. We only seek to go about
decently clothed and pay our way; and we find that
terribly difficult at present when we happen to be
“on our own.” My boarding-house gradually pushed
up its charge to 455., and as I only get 50s. I had
to pack up and seek a cheaper shelter with partial
board. I got a place to cover my head and a bit
of toast and an egg for breakfast for the same money
that in former times would have got me full board;
and then I had a battle-royal with the landlady to
beat her down from 30s. The unprotected female
is always fair game. I get a mid-day meal at the
bank for tenpence or a shilling, according to appe-
tite, and tea costs me another shilling unless I
sponge on my friends. Tram fares (including one
outing a week) come to 6s. 6d., and a boat ticket
costs a pound per quarter. I have had the same
skirt for three years, and when I want a pair of
boots I have to depend on a kind relative who is
fighting for his country in Afghanistan—l forget
the tribe, but it sounds like soapsuds.
And then my female cronies say: “You can’t get
those on your screw, Connie!”—which gives a fair
idea of the looseness that prevails; for apparently
my female cronies are not prepared to think a bit
the less of me if I have a “friend’s” pocket to dip
into. *


Five Years Growth in
Goodwill.
A little over five years ago Dodge Brothers
enjoyed an enviable reputation as manu-
facturers of a very large volume of
motor parts.
This reputation aroused extraordinary expec-
tation on the part of the public, when
it was announced that they would build
a motor-car. Thousands of dealers were
eager to represent them.
Thousands of orders were placed by indi-
vidual buyers.
But as manufacturers of motor-cars Dodge
Brothers were still on trial at the bar
of public opinion.
The car as a car was an unknown quantity.
In January. 1915, a few of the cars began
to be shipped from the factory; and a
few individual good opinions began to
be formed.
The growth of this volume of good opinion
was in exact ratio at first to the growth
of the volume of production.
But not many weeks had passed before the
reputation of the car outstripped the
capacity to produce.
The good news of its performance travelled
faster than the supply—in sixty days’
time there was a waiting list in all
parts of the country.
To-day Dodge Brothers have built and deli-
vered over five hundred thousand motor-
cars.
This is a notable record for five years even
in an industry which has been marked
by many amazing achievements. For
a first five years it stands absolutely
unique and alone.
But the sales growth, to our way of think-
ing, is as nothing in importance com-
pared to the growth of a very favor-
able public opinion concerning the
merits of the car.
Snoken advertising by approximately half a
million owners is by far the most power-
ful factor in the extraordinary demand
for this car.
Dodge Brothers frankly admit that their
task has been made easy for them by
the performance of the car and the
things owners have said about it.
Satisfying the demand which the goodness
of the car creates is still their one great
problem. Dodge Brothers’ works hav-
ing grown in a little over five years
from twenty acres of floor-space to
nearly one hundred are obtaining the
proportions of a city in themselves, but
the demand grows in excess of the
expansion.
Every standard of accuracy or excellence
which enters into the construction of
the car is\established by the owners of
this business.
The manufacture -of every part must con-
torm to gauges and measurements deter-
mined by. them. They fix the formulas
followed m .melting, shaping and forg-
steel, iron and brass. From the
handling of the raw metals to the final
assembly, every department in the
organisation is directly responsible to
Dodge Brothers.
ISo manufacturing detail is so small that it
escapes their scrutiny. No suggestion
rrom dealers or customers is too trivial
to receive consideration. A most un-
usual experience is brought to bear
upon every single element that enters
into the construction of the car.
It goes without saying, that Dodge Brothers
will never do anything, or permit any-
hmg to be done, that might jeopardise
the stand of the car with the public.
This is your guarantee when you buy one of
Dodge Brothers cars—the great good-
wm mat all the owners feel toward it
and the high value which Dodge
Brothers place on that goodwill.
cfsfs
Don be Brothers
MOTOR CAR
Dodge Brothers had only one idea when they began
to build their car.
When they determined above all else to build a
good car, they simply followed the instincts and
training of a lifetime.
They thought of their market in terms of the warm
goodwill of the individual owner.
And what could be simpler and clearer than the
conclusion that one satisfied owner would create a
host of others?
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
Dodge Brothers
fsf
s
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ptd.j
Melbourne.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland) Ltd..
Brisbane.
Standardised Motors, Limited,
Sydney.
Winterbottom Motor Co.j Ltd
Perth.
Cheney Motor Co v litd.j
Adelaide.
SAFECUARD Vou* health
Brow’s
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Co/c/s, Asthma,
and in the Cougrh of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHAKM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery,
SOLD IN BOTTLES.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/S and 3/-.
Made in England.
it**
■
A Model
Hairdressing Saloon
The finest in Sydney—equipped
with every modern appointment,
convenience and comfort.
Craig 8 Aitken’s Saloon Employs
Seven Expert Hairdressers —
men whose training and experi-
ence have been gained in the
best saloons of the world.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY will
find Craig and Aitken’s Saloon
conveniently near the Central
Railway Station—almost next
door to Anthony Horderns’.
Prompt Service Guaranteed.
“PLUM” RAZOR, illustrated above, and for which Craig and Aitken’s
30* years AS Thousand U s f tr f U »pi S th » r^ Zol ' we have used in our Saloon for oyer
years. lhousands of Plum” Razors are sold annually. Its finelv-
tempered edge keeps keen against the strongest beard
PRICE 12/6 POST FREE; or Pair in Double Case, 25/-
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG S AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
ensland
ilife
c altin£i
fs
zf
To the Tourist, Scientist, Investor
and, with a hundred voices from her miflions
of acres, to the Man in search of . Land.
- Free Information on all subjects
Us available at once on receipt of this coupon.
Name
Address ,
Queensland Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Brisbane. '
S.B.
“A Complete Food
by which even the weakliest can be nourished and
strengthened”—such is Bsnger’s, the Food which is always
prepared with fresh new milk.
The unique self - digestive ingredients in Benger’s
partially digest both milk and Food while you prepare it
This is why " " *
*
Food
224 A
can be fully nutritive when digestion is weakened.
Benger’s Food is for Infants, Invalids, and the Aged.
During 35 years’ use by the medical profession it has
fulfilled every claim made for it.
Benger’s Food is entirely British in origin, ownership, and manufacture It is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc. everywhere. Carefully follow the directions on the tin when preparing it.
Booklet and full particulars post free from :
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER, England-
BRANCH OFFICE: 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at New York (u.s.a.) 90, Beekman St. Depots throughout Canada.


A. Saunders’ Solid Leather Suit Case, two Nickel
Side Looks, Canvas lining. 20in., 70/-; 22in,,
75/.; 24in„ £4; 26in., £4/5/-
A. Saunders’ “Swan” Fountain Pen, two 9ct. Gold Bands,
plain, 25/-; chased, 27/6; plain'Swan, 14/-
m
fVN’vi
m
<
A. Saunders’ Sunshine Pure, in Solid Calf
Leather, 30/-
Other Designs, 12/6, 15/6, 17/6, 20/-
Hll
A- Saunders’ Gent.’s Ebony Brush Set, finest-
quality Bristles, 40/-
With sterling Silver Shields, 45/-, 50/-,
70/-
A. Saunders’ Writing Folio, in real Morocco Leather,
50/-. Others, 25/-, SO/-, 35/-, 40/-
A. Saunders’ Cutlery Set, containing §doz. Table Knives, i doz. Dessert Knives, 3-piece
Carving Set, Xylonite Handles, finest quality Sheffield Steel, £4/4/-
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER, 805-815 GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Inkstand, in polished Oak, Crystal Cut-glass
Bottles, Nickel Mounts, 17/6.
va*
i ■
A. Saunders’ Pocket Knife, Solid Silver Handle,
Sheffield * Stainless Steel Blades, 15/6.
A. Saunders’ Solid Leather Kit Bag, best-
qualitv Nickel Fittings. l2in., 30/-; 14in.,
35/-; I6in., 40/-; isin., 45/-
A. Saunders’ Pocket Wallet, Teal Morocco Leather,
sterling Silver Mounts and Shields, 20/-
Others, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
MS
/
m
ki :
SC-S
IW
S 3
i "lit
3y»
Ss
tsa
.11
m
-
“ You want the Best ?
Certainly - -
’S!”
Your grocer knows he is recommending the best
when he recommends you Nestle s Milk, and only
because it is the best, is it good enough for you.
USE NESTLE'S MILK FOR COOKING.
Be a Better cook ! Try the new way of cooking by using Nestle’s Milk in place of
dairy milk ; you will be amazed how much more delicious your cooking will be.
A FREE RECIPE BOOK FOR YOU!
A Valuable Book containing over 100 Splendid Recipes for cooking with Nestle’s
Milk will be sent, free and post free, on application to Nestles, 347 Kent St., Sydney.
NESTLE’S Condensed MILK
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
diiP
condensed
MILK
NEST BRAND
fitST^ ADE IN AUSTAALIA ‘PT|KG'
s & AN CLO SWISS condeM?- 1 ’
Melbourne, B* s ®£r-
- EL Aia Ei p ERTHI HO®


sr
IF
V
'v
&
%
FaT.
<V
$5
A :
m&&M
$7/3
w
s>
%
* £'4& r *Y- /'£
N
WHOOPIN
This is dangerous if
neglected.
Children are often per-
manently injured by the
straining cough.
Start treatment at the
first symptoms.
You cannot mistake
them—protracted cough-
ing-worse at night ~
peculiar whoop-labour-
ed expectoration of mu-
cus-apparent suffocation
after coughing.
Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedv is a positive
remedy for this disease.
Repeat the dose fre-
quently.
If given freely it lioui-
lies the tough mucus.
Makes it easy to expec-
torate. Counteracts any
tendency towards pneu-
monia.
You run no risks when
you give your child
Chamberlains Cough
Remedy.
It is the one guaranteed
remedy that contains no
narcotics or other harm-
ful drugs.
Read the Government
Analysts report which is
printed on each wrapper.
i
It is there for your
protection.
tyjcxa- a J)/ca&A . {y/UisHW/
bee &AQ wrq
% COUCH REMEDY »
Cranny" Ch/?mberumn
(co ptie ici-ited)
za/Jx.
*?s
ra
m
©
TM
SfiJrfs
typify good taste in style, coupled with
comfort. Perfect in fit and make, they
are also characterised by the snap of
the finest patterns and colors.
Obtainable at all Leading Shirt Departments.
Give Thistle Pyjamas a Trial.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS LTD.
Makers—BRISBANE
Dee rhis brand
3S
%
m
7?
&
Mac®
and SYDNEY.
A.S. 23*1
on each? shirt.
<r
7m
r
vstv-
f
CODES: Bentley’s and Lieber’s.
MANUFACTURERS
AND EXPORTERS
of
“DUTCH PROCESS”
COCOA, CHOCO-
LATE NEATWORK
& COCOA BUTTER.
V:
l‘bi^
* i
/
OCOA
mills
MILLS:
MELBOURNE SOUTH.
OFFICE: 5 131 Queen’
Bri Sge Street,
MELBOURNE SOUTH,
V 'ictoria.
Cocoa 5 supplied 'in bulk, or
packed for Mer chants undef
their, label.
ONLY WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTING MERCHANTS AND MANUFACTURERS ‘ SUPPLIED.
COCOA MANUFACTURED BY AUSTRALIANS FOR AUSTRALIANS.
In the Beginning.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
the beginning was the Word,” and the
beginning of Australia might be said
to be encompassed about by a cloud
of words —mostly harsh and satirical. When
the Pitt Government in 1786 decided to re-
lieve the congested gaols and hulks of Eng-
land by dumping a colony of convicts on the
shores of Botany Bay, it offered itself as a
target for the satirists—and satire at the
end of the eighteenth century was a highly-
developed weapon. The restricted press
laws, which made plain-speaking a somewhat
unpleasant pastime for the speaker, had de-
veloped that mental twist which delights
in irony, ridicule and sarcasm. And what
an opportunity for the lampoonist! An
argosy setting out such as the world had
never seen—an argosy of felons with an
objective 16,000 miles away! The occasional
poet seized such a devil-sent opportunity.
The first to grasp the chance was “R. 8.,”
who on December 19, 1786, unburdened him-
self of a poem on Botany Bay, which was
published in the London Magazine. To
the unknown “R. 8.” thus belongs the honor
of writing the first poem on Australia. One
can hear his satirical chuckle as he gets to
his second verse :
Away with these whimsical bubbles of air,
Which only excite a momentary flare;
Attention to plans of utility pay,
Weigh anchor and sheer off for Botany Bay.
Let no one think much of a trifling expense;
Who knows what may happen a hundred years hence!
The loss of America what can repay?
New colonies seek for at Botany Bay.
If the shade of “R. 8.” is smoking cigars
with Raymond we might ask him what be
thinks of it “a hundred years hence,” also
what is his opinion of the “breed.” Ths was
his forecast in 1786:
As scores of each, sex to this land must proceed,
In twenty years’ time only think of the breed :
Major Semple, should fortune much kindness display,
May live to be king over Botany Bay !
One editor of Thackeray says that Major
Semple is the original of Barry Lyndon, but
this is not correct, although there is some
similarity in the lives. He never reached
Australia; and what a colonist we lost!
Semple could feloniously extract money even
from a millionaire.
“It took many years for “the paradise
for ‘prigs’ ” idea to evaporate from the Eng-
lish mind. In Cruickshank’s “Comic
Almanac” for 1838, I came across this: —
January 26th: Botany Bay Colonised, 1756.
Rejoice and praise, in merry lays,
The wisdom of the wigs,
Which kindly found, on classic ground,
A paradise for “prigs.”
Assembled there, in talent rare,
Each knave salutes a brother,
And, friendly yet, their wit they whet,
By practice on each other.
That conditions in Ireland in 1786 were
similar to those of this year of disgrace i°
revealed in another of “R.B.’s” verses:—
Ye chiefs who go out on this naval exploit,
The work to accomplish, and set matters right,
To Ireland be kind, call at Cork on your way,
And take some White Boys unto Botany Bay.
The “White Boys” were the Sinn Feiners
of the day, and I hope when Lloyd George
reads this article he will not think the
advice seasonable in 1920.
Another poet presents himself to us in the
same magazine in the issue of April. 1787 ;
but this time we know our man—“ Botany
Bay: A Poem by Mr. Day, of Lincoln’s Inn
Fields.” As befitting a member of the illus-
trious Bar, Mr. Day strikes a more sedate
note than the flippant “R. 8.,” and even in-
vokes the Scriptures:—
The Scripture’s volume this command extend :
If thou hast plenty, share it with thy friend;
Obedient Britain the command receives,
And kindly' shares her plenty in her thieves;
And to confirm she’s read the Bible through,
She shares her plenty in her harlots too.
How shall my muse such philanthropy tell?
To prove her zeal for God, she leads you all —to Hell!
But the poet has his Pegasus really on the
gallop when he addresses “Ye Natives of
the Bay,” and tells them what to expect
when the expedition lands on their shores:
On our approach, ye natives, of the Bay,
Welcome your saviours with a loud huzza ;
Your toil resign, your holiday begin,
And with chaste carols hymn your prophets in I
Bow down, ye elders, and ye matrons too,
Embrace their knee, bring sacrifice in view;
Nay, be more meek, and, with approaches slow,
Treat them as Popes, and kiss the sacred toe;
Whose dire impression on your luckless shore,
Millions shall mourn and curse for evermore:
Disease shall reign (her baleful flag unfurl’d),
And breathe contagion through your little world;
Rapine and lust uprear their hellish yoke,
And peals of blasphemy truth’s God provoke;
Unheard transgressions howl their horrid birth,
And fly malignant o’er the blasted earth ;
Till even Britain with an humbled mind,
Resign perdition’s path—content to walk behind!
The pity is that Mr. Day did not post a
copy of his ode to King Bungaree and his
“elders” and “matrons” at Botany Bay.
Possibly the King might have brought it be-
fore his Parliament and resisted the attempt
to land the expedition with his artillery and
Maxims.
While the poets enlivened the magazines
the journalist had his say in the newspapers.
One of these gentlemen also tried his hand
at prophecy. In the London Morning
Herald of Nov. 20, 1786, this writer an-
nounced that the proposed expedition had
been abandoned, and regarded the abandon-
ment as a very happy circumstance, because
“Botany Bay is so situated that whenever
the worthy inhabitants who were sent to
colonise that settlement should increase to
power, and have ships of their own, it must
inevitably become a nest for pirates against
all ships that in the pursuit of their trade
must double the Cape of Good Hope.” This
recalls the forecast of Sydney Smith when
reviewing Collins’s “Account of N. S. Wales”
in 1803. “It may be a curious considera-
tion,” he “to reflect what we are to
do with this colony when it comes to years of
discretion. Are we to spend another hundred
millions of money in discovering its strength
and to humble ourselves again before a fresh
set of Washingtons and Franklins? The
moment after we have suffered such serious
mischief from the escape of the old tiger, we
are breeding up a young cub, whom we can-
not render less ferocious or more secure.”
One advantage of a long-range prophecy
is that you are not there to receive the
inevitable brick when the fabric tumbles
down.
C. H. B.


Never mind
the petrol
famine! Get a
TYPE “Z”
FARM ENGINE
and use
You will appreciate the
saving in fuel cost and
better all - round service.
=s=s=3
I
Wir
KEROSENE
See the
I o-day, when the petrol famine has tied up
thousands of farm engines, you will find Type "Z”
Engines working merrily in every part of the
country. The Type “Z” Engine is specially built
to give high-grade engine power on low-grade
fuel. It delivers the same power from a
gallon of kerosene as other engines do from a
gallon of petrol. And it gives this service without
frequent stops for cleaning up the valves and plugs.
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO. LTD., 9-13 Young St., Sydney.
J. BARTRAM & SON, 586 Bourke St, Melbourne.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON LTD, 99 Eagle St, Brisbane.
Sizes: I|, 3,6,
10, 15 B.H.P.
Stationary or
Portable.
Write to-day
for prices and
booklet to
nearest agent.
A Type Z Engine on your farm means a clean,
sweet-running engine for 365 days every year. It
is known throughout the Commonwealth as “A
wonder at the price because of its many up-to-date
features, coupled with economy in upkeep.
Equipped with Magneto Ignition, Throttling
Governor, Speed Regulator, Removable Water-
cooled Cylinder Heads, and other desirable features.
Get in touch with your nearest of the following:—
MALLOCH BROS., 50-54 William Street, Perth.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS LTD., Hobart
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Ragar”: All around our Northern coast,
along the Great Barrier Reef and in the
waters of the Torres Strait, lie thousands
of giant clams. The shells of these huge
bivalves weigh up to a couple of hundred-
weight each. They are snow-white, and as
close-grained as ivory—and as hard, if not
harder. Don’t know whether anyone has
ever tried them for billiard balls ; but should
think they would make an excellent substi-
tute for the big fellow’s tusks, which have
gone up in price with everything else. The
shells run to eight inches thick.
* * * *
“Boro-Belle”: The high price of sugar is
going to help to stop the awful waste of
molasses at Bananaland sugar-mills. The
trouble has always been that of storage; but,
of course, this is not unsurmountable. One
sugar factory in Mackay made a start a
few weeks back working up the molasses held
in .stock from last year; and by the time
the job is completed this season’s cane will
be waiting for the rollers to keep the
machinery working. It is estimated that
if each mill stored its molasses for a season
the work of converting it into sugar would
extend a five-month crushing campaign to
seven months or even more.
* * ' * *
“Cleveland”: There was a time when it
was rank heresy to say that any Australian
timber could take the place of lignum vitae
for bearings, but up this way (C.Q.) the
foreigner is seldom heard of. If a man now
wants to re-bush the stern gland of his
launch or tugboat, he digs up a piece of
either spotted-gum or gum-top box, and he
reckons on getting 15,000 miles out of it.
The seven-ton spinner of the big suction
dredge Archer is run in a bearing of box,
and there have been no complaints so far.
Rough dressed while green it works easily,
but it dries as tough as a leadswinger’s con-
science.
“Rags”: The other afternoon a salesman
in a big Bourke-street drapery shop caught
an elderly, lady-like person in the act of
getting away with- some goods. The dame
was led into the office, and there disgorged
a quantity of expensive bead ornaments.
She was very cold and dignified about it, and
could scarcely credit the firm’s insolence.
She gave the name of a man so well known
in the city that the management was incred-
ulous and rang him up. They explained:
"There is a lady here claiming to be your
wife, _ who has been caught in the act of
pilfering.” The explosive reply almost took
the management’s breath away. “D—n it
fill!” snorted Blank, “why can’t you people
be more careful? Here’s my house choked
up with things that woman has been per-
mitted to steal from one place and another !”
There was no prosecution, but there has
been restitution.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: Binks, who used to call on
Bloggs at his office, paid .some attention to
Bloggs s typist; and when Bloggs heard
that Binks and the typist had been to the
theatre together he was annoyed. He dic-
tated a letter to the typist in which, adopt-
ing a high moral tone, he broke off friendly
relations with Binks, giving reasons that
were distinctly libellous. The solicitors to
whom Binks showed the offending document
contend that the dictation to the typist con-
stituted publication, although the letter was
not sent; but Bloggs’s attorney maintains
that anything dictated to a confidential em-
ployee is privileged. The grotesque part of
the proceedings is that Binks i,s not seeking
damages; he simply asks for a withdrawal
or apology to be dictated to the typist.
* * * *
“Bad Australian” : The experiment of in-
troducing llamas to Australia in 1860 failed
because the animals were placed on unsuit-
able country. At that time very little was
known about the stretches of high plain or
lightly-timbered territory between the Buf-
falo, Mt. Buller and Kosciusko: The con-
ditions in this section of the Australian
Alps closely resemble those of the Southern
Cordillera, and I see no reason why the
llama, the alpaca and particularly the
guanaeo should not there increase and mul-
tiply. The tableland country of Central
Australia, with its dry climate and variety
of stunted scrub and coarse grasses, is very
similar to those parts of the higher Andes
where the llama family flourishes, and pro-
vided the Peruvian “sheep” (which, bv the
way, is more camel than jumbuck) suffered
no serious inconvenience through the com-
paratively sudden change from 10,000 ft.
above sea level to about 2000 ft., he should
do as well there as on the Andean pampas.
The llama carries a heavy fleece of strong,
coarse wool. Its flesh is of inferior quality,
closely resembling that of the kangaroo ; but
this defect is counterbalanced by useful-
ness and docility as a beast of burden. It
is the chief means of transport in the
rougher parts of the Peruvian and Bolivian
Andes, and can live, work and prosper
where a mule or even a burro would starve.
A fair load for the animal is about 1301 b.
Ihe guanaeo is much smaller than the llama
and alpaca and of a wilder and more intract-
able nature. Its wool is of a fine silky
texture, and its flesh is similar to that o*f
the llama, but not so coarse. It is not
domesticated to any extent, although it is
occasionally found among the llama or
alpaca herds. It flourishes equally well on
mountain and plain, and it is much hardier
than its cousins in that it appears to suffer
no ill effects from exposure to heavy rainfall
or a damp location. The vicuna is a diminu-
tive variety of the guanaco. Its flesh is
excellent eating, the head being regarded as
a great delicacy by the Indians of the
Higher Cordillera, and its wool is so fine
and silky that-it is often taken for abnor-
mally long fur. This handsome and excep-
tionally timid little animal, like the chin-
chilla, lives only in the highest and roughest
parts of the Andes, close to the perpetual
snow line, and is fast becoming extinct.
* * * *
“Gadgett”: How do you woo'djammers
find Australian-made axe-handles compare
with the American? The latter, pre-war
price 9d., are now four bob, while the Aus-
tralian-made are about half a.s much. But
honestly and sadly—l find the Australian
is not in the same street as the American.
It seems to take a bad finish, is lacking in
resiliency, and is apt to snap like a carrot
when the user least expects it. It is no use
blinding oneself to facts: if the Austra-
nin manufacturer can’t get better material
he can never hope to oust the importer, and
will continue to merit the contemptuous
sniff with which the storekeeper handles his
wares.
“Caveman”: One afternoon last week,
while I was away at work, my wife had a
visitor. She was well dressed, and intro-
duced herself as doing the district for a
high-class line of corsets. She was so quiet
and pleasant in her manner that Mrs. Cave-
man took her inside and they talked busi-
ness. Then, an order booked, the traveller
intimated that she held another line —she
referred to them as “rubber goods.” The
lady was well equipped with samples of
apparatus for the prevention of child-birth.
Her line of talk was not so much a business
argument as a free lecture, and it may be
imagined what sort of audiences she would
sometimes find. She was tactful, my wife
told me—she would need to be. So far half
the towns in our part of N. S. Wales have
been visited, and, according to the lady,
the orders booked run into hundreds of
pounds. Can thinly-peopled Australia afford
to have these missionaries on the road?
“Y.Z.”: I had commented on the despon-
dency of the bloke’s horse, and the bloke
enlightened me. “He’s allri’. That’s jist
a liattitude with his gills. He thinks I’m
trym’ to. sell you that load o’ manure, ’n’
lie s gettin’ in his good work all in the way
iv business.” As it was obvious I did not
grasp the true inwardness of all this, the
bloke went on to explain how his horse
often helped to sell a load of manure for him.
See, I bin hikin’ it round a bit, ’n’ ain’t
sold out. Neddy’s gettin’ sick iv it, like
meselt, so I picks out a likely feller blowin’
blight off his roses in the front garden, V
I opens, me heart to him. I tells him he
can have that load fer twelve-and-six, V
I don't care if it does ruin me, me old 'orse
can’t stand it no longer—he’s guv way
under the strain iv totin’ the load round all
day, ’n’ his ’eart’s broke. Neddy hears me
’n’ he. sags like a wet bag, an’ trails his
underlip in the dust. Look at him now—
ain’t he a touchin’ spectacle?” The old
horse had certainly got right down to it;
he sagged, his nose burrowed in the dirt, and
his limp ears fell about his eyes. “It’s
pearls to peanuts that the ole lad with the
roses tumbles to it,” continued the bloke.
“I’ve sold dozens iv loads that way, the
gent, buying rather than see a brave old
horse die on his doormat, so to speak.” That
evening my neighbor Short told me he had
bought a gorgeous load of manure, got it
dirt-cheap for 12s. Gd., the old horse towing
it having broken down at his door. The
load was worth 7s. Gd. of anybody’s money.
The kind of thing you read in almost
any issue of the S. M. Herald :
Four-roomed house to let, Enmore; SOs. and pre-
mium.
Advertiser wants cottage, any suburb; £lO for
key.
The British Government is introducing
legislation under which persons practising
this form of robbery may be fined £lOO plus
disgorgement of the plunder. In like man-
ner it will shortly be illegal in Britain to
charge more, than 25 per cent, above stan-
dard , rent (i-e., the rent paid on August 3,
1.04) for furnished houses and flats. But,
then, Britain is a poor, backward, benighted
Tory country.
* * * *
“Iv S.” ; The following is generally found
affixed to seed merchants’ catalogues:—
We believe the seed is true to name, but give no
warranty, express or implied, as to their growth, de-
scription, quality or productiveness, and will not in
any way be responsible for the crop.
This is bluff. . Such repudiation of warranty
has no validity if it is shown that seed
of a wrong kind or description has been
supplied,, but it does cover the seller
against liability for a poor crop of the right
kind.
* * * *
“Forester”: Analyses of the bark of 150
species of Australian trees, made by the
Institute of Science and Industry, have
proved that 15 have bark averaging over 20
p.c. of tannin. Of these nine are wattles,
the two best being the golden and the black.
Ihiee are mangroves and two cypress-pines,
°£ them (Galcardtii) fairly common. The
15 . t . h 1S <i .eucalypt. the mallet-wood of West-
ralia, which has been so recklessly stripped
and used up that it is nearly extinct for
practical purposes. The gum of the West-
ralian red-gum contains a high percentage
of tannin, but, like some mangrove bark, it
stains the leather tanned with it a red
color. The gum has this advantage over
paik, that it can be collected without kill-
ing the tree. As far as the mangroves are
concerned it is reckoned that a means of
getting rid of the red color has been found
It the. same can be done for the red-gum
there is a big future before it.
CHERCHEZ L'HOMME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘ Lady from England would like to meet wealthy
squatter, with view to matrimony, credentials ex-
changed. Herald office
O Lady from England, rich squatters are shy;
At present they’re roosting remarkably high;
And, besides, the demand far exceeds the supply.
They’re wary, elusive, as coy as can be;
And, like their rich uncle who comes from Fiji,
Their wealth, when yon probe it, 's a sheer fallacy.
Perhaps it is due to the drought and the flood,
But the name of the squatter’s too frequently Mud;
If you should snare an odd one, he’d turn out a dud!
We have lots of nice bricklayers, cooks, engineers,
Wharf-lumpers and coalies and plump profiteers,
But it’s been the close season for squatters for years.
You’ll hardly find one, though the country you roam
From Bulli to Bourke, with your man-catching comb ;
Be advised, English lady-bird, fly away ’Ome!
N.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


FITTINGS
BUILD THE PERFECT BICYCLE
A
r,
B.S.A. FITTINGS arc
Guaranteed Interchangeable.
Exact replacements of any part can
be obtained. Don’t be put off with
“pattern fittings.” but look for the
B.S.A. TRADE MARKS ON EVERY
PART. They are your guarantee.
Truest Economy.
It’s the truest economy to ride a genuine
B.S.A. Bicycle. Besides saving you
time and money and being a source of
pleasure you are certain of years of
cycling, free from trouble and at little
expense. You can compare a genuine
B.S.A. Bicycle by every possible test
with a so-called “cheap” bicycle, and
you will readily understand why a
B.S.A. is the cheapest machine in the
end. For easy, smooth running it is
unrivalled, while B.S.A. reliability and
long service are proved by the fact that
thousands of cyclists in all parts of
the world ride only B.S.A. Bicycles.
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
Send for B.S.A. Handbook
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings,
B.S.A. TRADE MARKS
These Trade Marks are your safeguard. See
that your bicycle carries the “Three Piled Rifles”
and the letters B.S.A. They are a guarantee of
highest quality, material, workmanship and finish
TRADEMARKS
MELBOURNE.
B.S.A. REPUTATION
During the Great War the B.S.A. reputation
has been more than justified by the remarkable
service which thousands of B.S.A. Bicycles gave
under the exhaustive conditions of modern warfare


Alkali Causes Soap
To Injure Hair.
Nearly all.soaps and ready-mixed shampoos
—even the most expensive—contain too much
alkali, which is dangerous, as it dries the
scalp and makes the hair brittle.
Really the most elegant and safe thing to
use is ordinary colinated cocoanut oil (a pure,
saponified hut quite .greaseless liquid), which
is not at all expensive—but is far, far better
than soaps or other scalp-injurious things.
Every chemist keeps a supply of this, and a
few ounces lasts you and mother, sisters and
brothers for months. Just wet the hair with
water and rub it One
.or two teaspoonfuls is plenty to create a big
quantity of rich, heavy, creamy lather. It
cleanses delightfully and rinses out easily.
The hair dries quickly and easily, and comes
oat-brilliant, soft, fluffy, wavy and fresh as a
daisy, looking much thicker than it actually
is.
Best of all, this colinated cocoanut oil
ledves the hair as easy to dress again as
though you hadn’t washed it at all. And yet
it loosens and carries off every bit of excess
oiliness, dust, dirt or dandruff scurf.
IMPORTANT.—Do not confuse colinated cocoanut
oil with cheaper sticky, emulsified cocoanut oils
or other substitutes. There is only one genuine
colinated cocoanut oil, as recommended above.
Girls! Women! Give this a Comer on your Dressing-
table. Never Let a Corn Ache Again!
Like a Flash! Few Drops Stop Coras Throbbing,
Then Corns and Callouses Wither Up, Loosen
and Lift Out Like a Cork—Painlessly!
v>\.
THE Australian people owe a
debt, of gratitude to the wizard
in chemistry who formalated the
new ether discovery named
Frozol-Ice.
Little phials of this
wonder liquid are now
obtainable from any chem-
ist for a few pence. You
merely apply a few drops
of this Frozol-Ice on a ten-
der, aching corn or tough-
ened callous. Right away all
soreness vanishes, and soon you see the
corn or callous that loose and withered
that it lifts out with the fingers, like a
cork. Not a twinge of pain or even irritation
is felt when using Frozol-Ice, or afterwards.
No soreness, no inflammation of surrounding
healthy flesh or skin.
Only a few pence now gives one freedom
from all and each soft corn.' hard corn, corn
between the toes, likewise tender callouses on
bottom of the feet. Every Australian who
tries Frozol-Ice sings its praises, for it
honestly does not hurt one wee bit.
Step in at your chemist’s to-night and in-
sist on having a small phial of Frozol-Ice,
in the green-printed carton. Stand on “your
dig.” and refuse spurious imitations of this
great compound.
Easy Way to Get
Rid of Indigestion.
Although you may have indigestion so
severely that anything but the simplest of
foods cause you the keenest suffering, there
is a simple way to get back safely to pleas-
anter, more nourishing foods. Just take a
teaspoonful of pure Salix Magnesia in a little
hot or cold water with eacn meal, and begin
at once to eat a little of any food you crave
Salix Magnesia, which comes in the form ot
powder or tablets (never as a liquid or coarse
granules) is not a laxative, but neutralises
the excess acid in the stomach, and so prevents
or stops all the pain of indigestion. Its use
cannot, like pepsin, soda-water, etc., do the
stomach any injury, and it will soon enable
you to eat good, hearty, satisfying meals of
the foods you like best without fear of bad
results. Your chemist should be able to sup-
ply you with Salix Magnesia.
Road Tryst.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
GREY smoke in green trees
And the first of the bees
The green hedge skimming over
To feast on the clover ;
While up the red road
'Gomes the big waggon-load,
Swaying and swinging
Through ruts deep in dust,
As the teamster walks singing
The song that he must:
•‘Gee back, Punch ! Get up, Nancy !
There’s a girl at the cross-roads is
waiting for me.
Red lips for love and blue eyes for fancy ;
And pretty Nelly Mulligan is turned
twenty-three!”
A spade and a hoe
And green peas in a row ;
And the new seed-beds bright
From the dew of the night!
Oh, the warm breezes pass
With a kiss for the grass
Where the white linen lying
Is bleaching and drying;
And the sound of a broom
In its knocking and swinging
Comes out clear from a room
Through a happy girl’s singing:
“Come home, Tom ! Come home, Jerry!
The kettle lid is jumping to make the
breakfast tea.
Someone’s whip is cracking up the road
from Wilson’s Ferry;
And someone at the willow-gate wants
a kiss from me !”
Grey smoke in green trees,
And the sweet of the breeze,
Running laughingly over
The white of the clover!
Far down the red road
Goes dipping the load,
Swaying and swinging
With jolt and with start,
While the teamster walks singing
The song of his heart:
“Get up, Punch ! Gee back, Nancy !
Steady there, my beauties! It’s nose-
bags for you,
Red lips for love, and blue eyes for
fancy;
And pretty Nelly Mulligan running
in the dew I”
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Orpheus Among the Palms.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f HE power-boat pushed her clipper-bow
through the dancing wavelets and
came to anchor off a pearl-white
sand-bea -h, above which a grove of dark-
green feathery-leaved coco-palms made shade
for a rambling double-line of olive-brown
thatched huts. Long, slender canoes drawn
up above high-water mark, the outriggers
draped with drying fishing nets, showed the
daily industry of the people, whose ancestors
used just such canoes and nets among the
myriad isles of Malaysia. During the cen-
turies while Portuguese, Dutch and British
battled for supremacy over the ancient Malay
kingdoms, the wandering Malay prahus fished
this southern coast of Papua for pearls and
trepang, and here to-day live the remains
of the former Malay colonies, their language
altered by intercourse with the aboriginal
Papuans, but physically almost the same
alert, energetic type of men as their fore-
bears of the Spice Islands. A virile people,
keen traders all and expert swimmers and
seamen, they are rapidly increasing in num-
bers, and in the last two decades have tripled
their population and added several sea-built
villages jto their tribe.
The district magistrate was inspecting his
200 miles of coastline, and his duties in-
cluded every single item of government as
it is understood in civilised lands. Though
he was still on the sunny side of 30, he had
spent almost a decade in this interesting
Work of Empire; and many of the more un-
known and distant portions of the great
island are unknown no longer through the
solitary, lone-hand explorations of this un-
assuming young man. It is all in the day’s
work: administration of the white man’s
law r , the care of the sick, mapping of the
mighty mountains and valleys of the interior,
delicate “extension of Government influence”
work with warring head-hunters of the up-
lands, anthropological research, land and
forestry work necessitating long days of
hardship by.field and flood, and all for a
salary that a haughty waterside worker
would laugh to scorn in Australia, beloved
homeland of Papua’s foremost pioneers.
For over a week I had sat beside this experi-
enced young executive officer and marvelled
at the wisdom of his snap decisions on every
imaginable phase of a brown people’s life
and actions. The ownership of hunting and
fishing tracts —abstruse matters these, neces-
sitating much patient genealogical research
among accomplished perverters of the truth,
and at a later date as much labor in obtain-
ing a check chart of both claimants’ ancestry
by inquiry from neutral sources in the tribe
concerned —intricacies of marriage and
divorce customs, litigation of the small debts
class (greatly loved this by every true
Papuan), the dark and wicked ways of sor-
cery, the care of native cocoanut plantations,
eradication of insect and vegetable pests, im-
provement of villages and their buildings,
extension of village roads and the proper
maintenance of existing ones—these and in-
numerable other problems, tersely termed
“Native Matters,” were quickly and satis-
factorily dealt with. And to-day he was an
inspector of schools, the education of Brown
Brother in the English language having been
decided upon by Australia when she took
over the colony of British New Guinea from
John Bull.
We were escorted by a cheerful crowd of
adults and children to the school, a rambling
building of hewn boards and brown thatch
of nipa leaves. The teacher, a tubby Raro-
tongan in dungaree trousers and waving
shirt-tails of pink-flowered print, greeted us
effusively and pressed us into chairs made
of polished cocoanut-wood and plaited sin-
net, the latter not unlike the cane of the
Hun-built chairs of pre-war days. A large
green cocoanut was brought to each of us,
the water in the freshly-opened nut efferves-
cing like cold sodawater, but tasting like-
nothing else on earth except green cocoanut,
nectar for the gods! The pupils, girls on one
side, boys on the other side of the long
central aisle, sat cross-legged on the floor
and whispered rapturously of the visit of
the Gavamani (Government, i.e., magistrate)
to their school, and remarked generally on
the clothes and physiognomy of the visitors.
The magistrate stepped to the blackboard
and began his examination, the delighted
teacher shouting his queries to each class
as they came before him. A tiny urchin of
about six, clad in a scanty girdle of hanana
fibre, armlets of woven orchid-bark encir-
cling her slender brown arms, a scarlet
hibiscus flower stuck rakishly over her right
ear and a golden alamanda bloom crowning
her mop of brown hair, was evidently a star
pupil. Right through the intricacies of the
multiplication tables, from twice one to the
triumphant twelve times twelve, went this
bright-eyed baby, and never one mistake did
she make, so that I was not surprised when
the teacher picked her up and hugged her
and tossed her high in the air almost up to
the beam on which a huge alligator was
carved. This interlude was received with
tremendous enthusiasm by the school, and
it took several minutes to restore order.
Selecting a pupil or two from each class
“Gavamani” rapidly completed his inspec-
tion. And the result was astonishing, for
these cheerful brown children, unclothed and
unshod, whose parents only a short decade
back were killers and collectors of human
heads, had a truly wonderful knowledge of
English and the ways and habits of the con-
quering white man. A slender youth of
sixteen, his sole apparel a loin-bandage
(perennial band!) of pandanus leaf, several
armlets and leglets of woven bark, a native-
made fishing-line wrapped around his head,
a half-moon of polished pearl-shell hung
upon his chest, a bird-of-paradise plume
nodding from his bushy hair, recited the
whole text of Commodore Erskine’s procla-
mation of British sovereignty over British
New Guinea, a historical document that few
Australians have ever heard of. A buxom
lass, nigh on to the marriageable age—
about 14 in Papua—much petticoated with
orange, yellow, brown, green and white
fibres, silken-tressed, sloe-eyed and pleasant-
featured, shining like burnished bronze from
much cocoanut-oil massaging, necklaces of
fragrant magnolia and paw-paw blooms
draped across her firm breasts, garlands of
crimson hibiscus and purple grenadilla
flowers encircling her frizzy head, did men-
tal arithmetic up to simple practice sums,
and showed some faultlessly-made Maltese
lace that even a mere male could admire.
Then our chubby friend, the Rarotongan,
double of a famous film star, treated us to
some excellently-rendered' part-songs by the
whole school. Old memories revived as the
melodies of “Let’s All Go Maying,” “The
Bay of Biscay,” “The Blue Alsatian Moun-
tains” and “Home, Sweet Home,” rose above
the song of the south-east wind among the
palm-tops and the musical murmur of the
tide upon the sands. And came songs that
the laughter-loving children of the South
Seas can sing far better than their musi-
cally-educated brothers of civilised lands:
the plaintive syncopated melodies of Tahiti
and Samoa, music that these descendants of
cannibals put their very souls into, the
clear, sweet young voices ringing out in
crescendoes of glorious sound that rippled
through the scented air.
Outside the building on the hard white
sand the village sat in the shade of the
palms and enjoyed the concert, punctuating
their discourse with betel-nut and many fill-
ings of the baubau (bamboo pipe). A group
of greyheads sat on guard over a dozen
swinging net-bags in which Baby Brown
Brother was plagidly sleeping through the
tumult round about him. Gavamani opened
his despatch-box and took out a number of
prizes: the tiny six-year-old baby was glad-
dened by the gift of a hair-comb; the. Mal-
tese lace expert received a small mirror;
the history specialist an ear-torturing tin-
whistle ; the leaders in the other classes got
trifles of like value. Followed “God Save
the King,” and we went aboard the launch
in the golden light of the setting sun, while
the happy folk on the beach shouted invi-
tations to us to call on our x’eturn journey
and receive a turtle they were going to
catch for us. The engine coughed and splut-
tered, then got info tune, and darkness came
down, while two' happy Australians sat on
deck in the blue and silver magic of a
glorious tropic night and listened to the
wash of the water against the bow as we
headed the vessel for the next island.
LAKATOI.
The Taxi of the Clouds.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
French comic papers had convinced
me that the traveller on French rail-
ways takes his life in his hands. In
addition there was a strike of railway
workers which was rapidly spreading into
a general strike, to the accompaniment of
bombed railway lines and dynamited cars.
Between these things and a transport strike
at all the Channel ports, there was only one
route left to London, so, like a French states-
man on another occasion, I sought safety in
flight.
The Handley Pqge service between Lon-
don and Paris is a commonplace nowadays.
Out of 592 scheduled trips in the last eight
months it completed 520, through the worst
winter weather, and had only one forced land-
ing. In the same period the Airco express,
carrying mails and passengers, has flown
120,000" miles, and its average speed has
never fallen below 100 miles an hour. Since
the London air-port was removed out of
London fog to Croydon, every day has been
a flying day. The aerial express now
runs to an exact time-table as punctually as
an earthbound railway train.
Special cars take you from your hotel to
the great aerodrome at Le Bourget, about
six miles out of Paris. Our party was
sufficiently diversified. There was a Yankee
newspaper editor from California, a diplomat
from Turkey, a honeymoon couple from Shang-
hai, a Bombay merchant, two Australians
and two Englishmen. The diplomat was
in a hurry to get to Downing-street. He
was whisked off in an aerial taxo travelling
at 110 miles an hour, and would be in London
an hour ahead of us. Our machine was
the stage-coach of the air, in which we sat
in cane armchairs, our luggage stowed in the
boot, a window at our side through which we
could view the spinning globe in comfort.
Our speed was a leisurely 70 miles, and our
scheduled time three hours. By dint of
much bustling and great discomfort, earth-
worms can complete this journey via Calais
in about eight hours.
Enthusiasts have said that man’s mastery
of the air has opened up a new realm of
beauty for mankind. I do not think so. I
do not think artists will seek their inspira-
tion in mid-air, that air-maps will displace
the landscapes of Corot in the Louvre or
that G. K. Chesterton will want to float
over London before he writes his next book.
After one has forgotten the preliminary ter-
rors of the starting and the conviction that
the great ’plane will never surmount the
hedge surrounding the aerodrome, one looks
down and sees the world dropping from under
one’s feet with a sensation of regret. One
sees the lovely roads of France, brooks break-
ing into silver over rustic mill-wheels, clus-
ters of bees creeping across a square in an
old French town, a full-rigged ship dipping
to the Channel swell, and the essential spirit
of these things becomes as remote and in-
comprehensible as the canals of Mars. But
there is no lack of entertainment on the trip.
One is filled with a childlike and devouring
curiosity to know what the true nature is of
all these once-familiar things—an enormous
oyster-shell which is really a quarry, a crazy
quilt which is a vegetable garden, and long
white veinings on a ground of chocolate
which are filled-in German trenches.
The air-road has its ethereal bumps and
invisible ruts just like the land-road. The
road at 8000 ft. was full of them. Most of
the passengers said they enjoyed them, but
one passenger began to look thoughtful. I
was that passenger. At 12,000 ft. however,
the road was as straight and level as a
billiard table. The noise of the two engines
was not so great as to prevent conversa-
tion. Our tiny shadow two miles below
could be seen fleeing swiftly across the
fields of France, but the ’plane itself seemed
to hang motionless above it. We were not
a bit lonely in the sky. Gaily painted
single-seaters passed and repassed us, an
air-liner bigger than ourselves waved hand-
kerchiefs, and once a fast little rover, to
show his contempt, sailed right round us.
Boulogne appeared and vanished in the mist,
the Channel, covered with ships, gleamed for
a moment, and we were in sight of Folke-
stone and had changed the orderly jigsaw
puzzle of France for the tangled jigsaw
puzzle of England. Shakspeare’s country
unfolded itself like a great pageant. VV e
saw the chalk cliffs of Dover, Kentish lanes
and the hedged fields, and soon w.e were
fleeing aldng the banks of the Thames. Our
shadow passed across the deck of Nelson’s
flagship; between two clouds we saw a P.
and O. steamer starting for Australia; and
then London spread itself out in all its
naked cruelty and none of its charm. W e
rose another thousand feet above that brick-
work maze, and then in an enormous spiral
started to descend. The landing ground
showed as a tiny clearing in a jungle. The
streets of London revolved around us like
the spokes of a great wheel. Squares and
mean houses, factories and churches whirled
about, grew bigger and bigger, threatening
to engulf us, and the next moment we were
gliding through a herd of cows, brushing
heads of grass and gently bumping to a
stop.
Business men, as a matter of routine, now
leave London by air at 9.30 a.m., have lunch
in Paris, transact a few hours’ business
and return to London for dinner. Three
companies maintain mail, parcels and pas-
senger services with Paris. Handley Page
to-day starts a service to Amsterdam and
later to Copenhagen. You may now order
an aeroplane to take you to any European
capital as easily as you order a taxi to take
you across London. Continental aviation is
developing at a rapid rate. Most of the
principal cities have services between them.
In Morocco the French have established
regular postal services across their vast de-
pendency and with Spain, and are employ-
ing aeroplanes as a means of colonising and
controlling the hinterland of Morocco to a
remarkable degree. It is possible to board
an air express in London in the morning,
fly to Paris, and there change and reach
Rome the same evening. From immemorial
China comes an echo of the world-revolution,
and a Handley Page mail service now links
Tientsin with the ancient capital of Kublai
Khan. Night flying is recognised as a neces-
sary development, and air lighthouses and
ground illuminations are being experimented
with.
There was one hangar at the huge Hand-
ley Page establishment at Cricklewood which
I was not allowed to look into. It contains
the machine equipped with the new wing
which it is claimed will revolutionise flying.
The new design will enable far greater loads
to be carried with far less wing-area than
formerly, with a consequent reduction of
motive power. It will greatly lessen the cost
of flying and the danger of landing, and it
may restore the popularity of the monoplane,
which with the new wing will require only
200 or 250 square feet of flying surface in-
stead of the present 4400. Instead of a land-
ing speed of 45 miles an hour being neces-
sary, 35 miles or less will be possible. With
this design a wing 15 feet across and three
feet wide driven by a 25-h.p. motor will
carry two people and enough fuel for a
500-mile trip at a speed of 105 miles an
hour. Here is the taxi-cab of the air which
the future citizen will summon to his house-
rqof whenever he wants to slip across from
London to the opera in Paris or from Mel-
bourne to an afternoon of sunshine in
Sydney.
This speeding-up of our communications
has a more sinister aspect than appears in
the ability of business-men to flit from city
to city like golden butterflies. It is well
known that the war ended just in time to
prevent the use of methods of destruction
from the air to which the old methods were
mere pea-shooting. French, English, Ameri-
can and German chemists had perfected
means of wiping out the inhabitants of whole
cities. The industrial mobilisation of civi-
lian populations makes a whole natjon com-
batant, and the civilian in the next war will
enjoy none of the immunity he enjoyed in
this. It will be the first military objective
of a nation at war to destroy its enemy’s
cities as quickly as possible.
The world has definitely shrunk to about
a third of its former size. Australia is as
near to Europe by air as she is to Java by
water. New Yofk is less than 17 hours
from London, and command of the sea is
sinking to a position of secondary import-
ance. Thousands of aeroplanes can be built
for the price of one battleship, and air-trans-
port is rapidly developing.
What is not developing at the same pace
is international morality. Civilisation is a
misshapen giant whose spiritual lags far be-
hind its material growth. It is a Cyclops
with one eye. The drawing of nations
closer together in time has not drawn them
closer in spirit, and nearer contact seems
even to increase their rivalries. If the demo-
cratisation of the air fails to subdue the ani-
mosities of nations, then civilisation is only
speeding up for destruction.
M. G. SKIPPER.


sw. -
ass
-Bv^
*r
S 8:
JP^JSJS
aa»f
I
SM
rsa
fep
sr<
ss
vnvHJLsnv
Ni iavw
*w
m \
i to »
■f> y.
o
in J
'
t ;
111 1 »^^MI
•■ m m
\ I .
"Thought is the Soul of Action !”
INCREASED PRODUCTION of METAL GOODS
THE World’s largest manufacturers of metal
goods, the greatest motor and engineering
workshops, aircraft factories, shipyards and
steel mills have adopted the Oxy-Acetylene Process as the
solution of speed and reliability wherever metal must be cut
or joined. In the production of every class of metalware,
Oxy-Acetylene Welding enables the manufacturer to produce
an article that is cheaper, better-looking and far more dur-
able than those made by rivetting, seaming, brazing or fire
welding. In Australia to-day many articles such as milk
and cream cans, kitchenware, motor car bodies, metal gates,
window frames, metal ceilings and various other products
are made easier, quicker and cheaper by the Oxy-Acetylene
Welding Blowpipe.
RAPID REPAIRS TO MACHINERY
The same features which enable Oxy-Acetylene Welding and
Cutting to revolutionize metal work make it a tremendous power
for economy wherever broken or worn machinery parts, threaten
to hold up factory plants, and to this expense add an outlay for
new parts. Over and over again the Oxy-Acetylene Process stands
between factories and the cost of an entire machine. In the
motoring world, practically every really modern garage is equip-
ped with an Oxy-Acetylene Welding Outfit for making rapid
repairs to automobile parts. Everything composed of cast or
wrought iron, mild steel, brass, copper, aluminium or gunmetal, can
be made strong as new by the Oxy-Acetylene Welding Process, for
a trifle compared with the cost of replacement. This applies even to
the most inexpensive garden or workshop tools and kitchenware.
WHY OXY-ACETYLENE WELDING LEADS
Apart from the speed and low cost of repair, Oxy-Acetylene Weld-
ing means a positive weld. It fuses broken sections into one
homogeneous whole—returns them to their original solid state
as strong as new. It is the only process that can handle fractures
in large machinery parts weighing many tons, several instances
of which are illustrated below.
ASK US FOR INFORMATION
MANUFACTURERS—If you produce metalware we will be pleased
to demonstrate the ability of the Oxy-Acetylene Process to double the
outfit and increase the selling value of your lines. Possibly you will also
realise how valuable a COMOX Welding or Cutting Outfit would be
in case of machinery breaking down.
GARAGES AND WORKSHOPS—COMOX Welding and Cutting
Outfits are splendid moneymaking institutions. Motorists and machinery
users know the economy of Oxy-Acetylene Welding for repairs and they
go where they can get it.
HOUSEHOLDERS —We will be pleased to send you the name and
address of your nearest Oxy-Acetylene Welder. Don’t throw broken
garden tools, worn metalware or any broken metal
article away. The Oxy-Acetylene Welder will
make them strong as new for very little.
m
W*
'’*v
Mi
Commonwealth Oxygen & Accessories Limited
FOY STREET, BALMAIN, SYDNEY, N. S.W.
MELBOURNE —Fyvie 8c Stewart, 362 Collins House, Collins St. ADELAIDE—Geo. Wills & Co. Ltd., Grenfell St.
BRISBANE—Evans, Deakin & Co. 121 Eagle St. LAUNCESTON—Harrison Bros. 8c Co Ltd., 20 Patterson St.
PERTH —Geo. Wills 8C Co. Ltd., Murray Street. FIJI —Brown 8C Joske, Suva.
Oil tank, capacity 100
made by Oxy-Acetyl
Welding
Hoist wheel in colliery broken
where shown and
speedily welded
Welding
cracked
frame
motor lorry
Metal goods of all
kinds are made. too"/,
quicker and better
Fractured flywheel made strong again by Oxy-Acetylene Welding
Cutting up .1
boiler
in a confined
space
Engine bed broken in transit
soon made whole again
Foundries use
Oxy-Acetylenc for
removing risers
Filling in
defect in
• b'g
casting


A
vW
isa
o
es
s/o
A
i
TheLAGER
Without a RiVal
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales
Increase in Rate of Interest to 4 per cent.
and
Increase in Deposit Limit to £lOOO.
Deposits will now be accepted up to £lOOO and interest allowed
at 4 per cent, up to £5OO, and at 3\ per cent, on any excess up to
£lOOO.
By Order of the Commissioners,
A. W. TURNER,
Secretary.
Head Office,
11 Moore Street, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Kissing Time”
Criterion “Irene”
Royal “The Wonder Man”
Palace . “Tilly of Bloomsbury”
Tivoli “His Little Widows”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Town Hall (August 7) . . Choral Society’s Concert
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The .Mikado”
Royal “Yes, Uncle”
King's “The Eyes of Yduth”
Princess’s “The Rotters”
Tivoli “Bran Pie”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciarium Dancing
♦
“The Heart of Wetona,” thrown on the
stage of Sydney Palace last Saturday, is to
be snatched off again this Friday and put
back in the brine-tub. So far as the weekly
critic is concerned, this production is a
through train which thunders past with
feathers on its roof, leaving him standing on
the platform full of mixed sentiments. It
deals with the Noble Red Man in his halt-
civilised state, and a country which has
never known the Noble Red and dislikes
inter-marrying with color can’t take him
and his feathers seriously. Marie Ilka, as
Wetona, is the impulsive daughter of a
white mother (dead) and a full-blooded Red
Indian chief who wears his hair long and
his temper short. Home again at the old
reservation after a course of college and
emotional films, she gives herself unreser-
vedly to a cheap white Romeo who teaches
school. When the curtain goes up her
father is trying to extract her lover’s name
before killing them both. He is still cross-
examining unsuccessfully when the rag falls
again. It is a dull start, and the feathered
and painted braves glaring in through the
windows don’t suggest the lean, brown
murderer-friends of Fenimore Cooper; they
merely look like unemployed panto, dames.
The school-teacher being afraid to come for-
ward and protect his girl, the noble Govern-
ment agent (white), who secretly loves
Wetona, allows her hate-crazed old dad to
hound him into marrying her, she consenting
on the secret understanding that she is to
be divorced when the weather clears. The
pair start their married life with the aged
Indian’s worst wishes, and a week later the
loving husband, who isn’t loved in return,
asks the skunk school-teacher to stay the
night in order to test if his young wife loves
her seducer well enough to go to his room.
The teacher is ordered to stay in his apart-
ment on pain of death. It is an absurdly
false situation, and when the angry rivals
thrash out the rules of the silly game on a
darkened stage, the seasoned playgoer begins
to wonder why he didn’t stay at home and
smoke. Finally, when the wretched villain
has been scorned and insulted by everyone
and deserted by the cowboys who had rallied
to protect the agent, he is sent out into
the Indian-haunted night to take his chance
with a fast horse and a small revolver. A
fusillade of shots and the shrill death-cry of
the Commanches signal the result of his
brief dash. Wetona runs in, grieves for
about five seconds, and then thanks her hus-
band prettily by way of commencing a
second love-story.
* * * *
Marie Ilka works the emotions hard as
the deceived Indian maiden, and pummels the
unluckiest kitten in Sydney to show how
gay the Pale-red Girl can be when she tries.
But the little star lacks magnetism. George
Bryant does his best with Quannah, the aged
Red parent who upholds the sanctity of the
wigwam. Ethan Allen looks a likely Indian
Agent; Slit his level voice rips evenly
through the most tragic situations like a cir-
cular saw. John Waller, as Commanche Jack,
swaggers and drawls and yields an impression
of a likeable, open-air man who needs a whole
prairie to himself to breathe in. Douglas
Ross, as a sleek doctor of divinity, performs
the hurried marriage ceremony most de-
voutly. and Freda Williams, as a Red Indian
lady-help, squats and wails as required. The
one laugh of the show arrives late, when the
Agent snaps at his cheap rival, “Hell is
already so full of school-teachers like you
that their are sticking through the win-
dow !” On Saturday “Tilly of Bloomsbury”
moves in from the Criterion.
People with pleasant memories of Allan
Wilkie’s previous work in Melbourne will
hardly be excited by “The Rotters” which
he staged at the Princess’s last Saturday
night. The piece is an average conventional
comedy that depends more for its humor
on the tattered English of an amiable dow-
ager than on any drollery or surprise in
the development of the plot. Its main
feature is a Jay Pay, John Clugston, who
finds the towering edifice of his respecta-
bility sent tottering by the inildly-raffish
behavior of his unremarkable children. One
girl is expelled from school, and the only
son home wearing the Order of the
Midnight Eye. Furthermore, the beauteous
elder daughter is found hard pressed against
the livery of Glugston’s chauffeur, whilst
Clugston himself is finally exposed as a
secret divorce!, with an ex-wife of bar-
maidenly aspect presenting a bill for 30
years’ alimony. The necessity for keeping
the scandal in the family starts Clugston
dissipating his coin in incredible bribes to
his blackmailing offspring, and thereabouts
the entertainment ends.
* * * *
Neither the comedy nor its production is
worthy of Wilkie, afid he is certainly not
himself as the verdant chauffeur. The
uniform and leggings are manifest derisions
of his tawdry surroundings, and the actor’s
rather sumptuous style is too big for the
expression of bald amenities in the back-
ground of the play. He brings, so to speak,
a Rolls-Royce manner to the driving of a
Ford. Miss Hunter-Watts is winsome
enough as Winnie Clugston, but the fine
voice, that should be dedicated to nobody
less than Browning, merely serves to give
Winnie’s undistinguished lines a certificate
of character. More even than Allan Wilkie,
Miss Hunter-Watts is depreciated by her
part. Edward Landor grows fussy and peri-
patetic in the endeavor to present Coun-
cillor John Clugston with all the outward
disturbance of an outraged moral conscience.
All the same the rOle is well handled, and,
apart from some allowable exaggerations, the
acting can be commended for its undcviating
excellence. The malapropisms and reckless
aspirates of Mrs. Clugston are made natural
to the type by Helen Fergus, whilst Vera.
St. John depicts the state of a flapper’s
heaven when admirers are available in any
quantity. The blot of Percy Clugston’s bad
night is imprinted on the blameless counten-
ance of Felix Bland, and Loris Bingham is
the insurgent blonde who emerges from the
wake of John Clugston’s personal history.
Mona Duval appears as a plump and bust-
ling slavey, and Fred Patey has a couple
of crowded minutes as a police inspector.
Daisy Kennedy’s violin, backed by a dash-
ing toilet and a far-reaching smile, was
the item of fashionable interest at Mel-
bourne Town Hall last week. The beauteous
Australian mostly devoted her first pro-
gramme to short, exotic pieces designed to
exhibit her virtuosic. brilliancy and athletic
bow-arm. Schumann’s “Fountain,” with its
tempestuous tinkling, was thrown off with
the same effortless gaiety she gave to the
playing of Zarzycki’s “Mazurka” that ended
the evening. She rather accentuated the
Caprice in Zsolt’s “Valse Caprice,” and her
rendering of the same composer’s “Dragon-
flies” suggested a debate by the Mosquitoes’
Union, but she touched the big house with
her slim and slumberous tone in Cyril Scott’s
“Lullaby” and Sard’s “Menueßo.” Strong,
almost masculine, bowing was the feature
of the broad passages of Pugnani’s familiar
Pradudium and Allegro '(arranged by
Ivreisler). and she scored in Mozart’s Con-
certo in D Major and Beethoven’s Romance
in G, though she hardly gave the latter
the full Beethovenish flavor. Daisy Ken-
nedy, however, is a fine, all-round artist
whose casualness gives no hint of the labor
“Kissing Time,” at
Sydney Majesty's.
Maud Fane as one of
the greatly kissed.
that has produced
her blinding per-
fection. But im-
peccable musician-
ship is not the
whole of her at-
traction : she owns
a sweet, original
temperament that
flames i n every-
thing she plays.
Accompanied b y
the tactful and
pleasing Topsie
Doenau at the
piano, she gave an-
other recital on
Saturday in which
Paganini’s Con-
certo in D Major
was her greatest
performance.
* * *a *
The J.C.W.
Royal Comics still
hold Sydney
Majesty’s with
“Kissing Time”
which has enough
melody and sun-
shine in it to make
all sorts of people
shed the drab wor-
ries of every-
day life. Full
many a landlady
who sits up aloft listening to Maude Fane
and Gladys Moncrieff duetting in “Sweet
Hawaiian Moonlight” forgets for a few deli-
cious moments that beef is one-and-four and
not a pound of butter to be had for love or
money.
People love to be taken in. The Great
McEwen is in his fifth week at the Play-
house, and still Sydney comes on.
No complaints from Sydney Tivoli, where
“His Little Widows” and the Mormon wow-
sers engage in songandance.
After viewing “The Wonder Man” film
at the Royal, Sydney people go home argu-
ing whether Georges Carpentier is a beauty-
actor who can punch, or a heavy-weight
“THE ROTTERS," AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS'S.
Charles, the chauffeur (Allan Wilkie), and
his employer, Councillor Clagston, J.P.
(Edward Landor).
pugilist disguised as a Greek god. But all
the ladies agree that he should not be
allowed to risk his features in the ring. The
idea of a pug. like Beckett, who is said to
look and snuffle like a bulldog, being allowed
to attack a darling like Georges fills all
the flappers with horror.
** # *
Sydney can still remember Hilda Spong’s
“Everywoman.” Well, the screens of the
Globe and Haymarket now follow “Every-
woman’s” adventure in search of Eove, whom
she had really left by the Home radiator.
Taking Beauty and Modesty and Conscience
with her, she follows Flattery to the Mar-
ket, where Wealth and Fame are the bidders.
Passion also comes to the auction, and
Everywoman has the high old time she
dreams of over the washtub, or when she is
darning the kiddies’ socks, till Beauty and
Modesty forsake. Then Conscience leads her
home again where Love is still keeping the
power turned on. It’s a wonderful picture.
Connie Talmadge almost blows the screens
off the Lyceum and the Crystal Palace to
tatters as “The Temperamental Wife”, of
a shy, young Senator who unfortunately has
a female secretary. That the young woman
has a name like Smith doesn’t temper the
blast to the shorn lamb. Lyceum also shows
a motor-bike race, a submarine descent, a
seaplane flight, a six-fathoms-deep Spanish
treasure and a fight to the death below sea-
level. The whole is the Drury-lane melo-
drama, “The Best of Luck.” But the real
glow of this week’s movies is on Elaine
Hammerstein in “The Shadow of Rosalie
Byrne.” Elaine is the wicked serpent-lilte
sister who scoops in men’s wealth and
reputation with her highly-manicured fingers,
and Rosalie is just a struggling working-
girl who can’t afford Milanese undies or
Russian sables, but has one thing the other
covets, and that is a regular boy. The
fight to the finish takes place at the Strand
and Empress.
** * *
To hear in the flesh, as it were, the
ghost-voice which lives ,in the gramophone
in their living-room, the suburbs continue
to empty themselves into Sydney Town Hall
three times per week for the John McCor-
mack concerts. John in oratorio leaves other
tenors behind on the track; John in
“Bohfeme” makes the girls and boys cuddle
up closer; and the old ladies in the three-
shilling seats beam when he sings “Mother
Machree” and “Little Mother of Mine.”
“Irene,” a musical comedy from the U.S.,
supplants “Tilly of Bloomsbury” at Sydney
Cri. on Satni’day night. The popular little
London girl moves across to the Palace.
“The Man from Toronto” so successfully
filled the allotted span of the Courtneidge
season at Melbourne Tivoli that the local
populace didn’t get a chance to see other
pieces in the company’s repertoire. How-
ever, Melbourne hopes that George Tully,
Margaret Swallow and the rest will come
back after “Bran Pie” and some similar
jests have had a brief run. “Bran Pie” will
be dished up on Saturday.
Memories of the feeble “Passing Show
at Melbourne Majesty’s will be obliterated
on Saturday by the revival of “The Mikado.
Charles Walenn returns to head a cast which
will include some old favorites like \ illiers
Arnold and Ethel Morrison.
w * # #
“The Eyes of Youth” at Melbourne King’s
continues to offer the strange spectacle of
an ambitious maiden with her eyes glued to
a ball of glass. The fact that she doesn’t
powder her nose during the operation shows
that she is beholding something abnormal.
If the ball merely mirrored her counten-
ance, the reach for the powder-rag would be
almost inevitable.
The animated patches in “Yes, Uncle,” at
Melbourne Royal, are still mostly due to the
legs of Madge Elliot and Cyril Ritchards,
whisking about singly or together.
** * *
Wild life on a windjammer, with Mad-
laine Traverse in the centre of it, is get-
ting publicity at Hoyt’s, Melbourne. “Hell
Ship” is the name of the film, and if the
ship isn’t really Hell it is a suburb. The
heroine’s dad is one of the greatest ex-
ponents of massacre that the screen has yet
given us. “The Heart of Humanity” takes
a sensational and erratic route through war-
damaged Belgium. Dorothy Phillips as the
Red Cross heroine has some anxious
moments with a rorty Hun admirer in a
cathedral. This week Majestic audiences are
getting a further education in the allure-
ments practised by Norma Talmadge. “She
Loves and Lies” shows Norma fanning the
meek flame of her hubby’s affection with
every charm in her repertoire. The Selz-
nick Co, at the Melba, is devoting a week to
“The Imp,” in which Elsie Janis takes a
tour of the underworld, following many
beaten tracks.
* * .!= *
Pursuing its explorations in antiquity, the
Mermaid Play Society dug up Sheridan’s
“Critic” at the Melba Hall, Melbourne, last
week. Arthur Goodsall was producer of the
show, and gave a rendering of Puff that was
only restrained when he was waiting for
the prompter’s aid. William Devine fur-
nished Dangle with a load of fatuous self-
content, whilst Miss Rose Quong made Mrs.
Dangle into the likeness of her modern
young self. The best performance came
from W. G. Southwell, who, as Sneer,
fomented trouble with a silky, insidious
voice. Wesley Wright was a passable Sir
Fretful Plagiary and Allan Murray a satisfac-
tory Earl of Leicester; but William Preston
(Sir Walter Raleigh), Gordon Mann (Sir
Christopher Hatton) and Norman Parker
(Lord Burleigh) were painfully stolid phan-
toms seemingly aggrieved with their clothes.
Mrs. F. L. Apperly turned Tilburina into
a pretty piece of confectionery; and Miss
Izobel Duncan played the Justice’s Lady
better than she spoke the Prologue.
Herbert Fryer, an English pianist, has given
two recitals in the Assembly Hall, and has
managed to convince Melbourne that one
can make music even though one lacks long
hair and a foreign accent. At the matinee
on Saturday Fryer played some of his com-
positions, as well as Bach, Schumann,
Brahms, Chopin, Purcell, Rachmaninoff and
John Ireland compositions. Critics all over
the world have ranked Fryer as first-class,
and Melbourne nods approval of their esti-
mate. As many people wanted to hear him
play more Chopin, he is to give a Chopin
recital at the Athenaeum Hall on Friday.
f- w *
“Bran Pie” has been at Adelaide Tivoli.
The strenuous Miss Lee White was the
most conspicuous feature, and the frocking
was beautiful; but the men were very good
too. In particular, there was a bright
sketch by George Gee and Gouriet on the
theme which England and America have
found so amusing—the officer of war-time
in the employment afterwards of a boss who
had been his private. The season might
well have been longer. The Royal, with pic-
tures for the moment, proudly displays a
wrecked lobby as evidence of the frenzied
public desire to get in. Across the way at
Wondergraph are similar crowds for “The
Miracle Man.” This has that fine theme, tin-
bad man who essays to fake the supernatural
for his own ends, but finds that something
really outside his knowledge is taking charge.
The artist says it is too spun out; but audi-
ences don’t find it so. West’s have no com-
plaints either, Norma Talmadge figuring as
the always-popular girl who is good and bad
at different periods. T. H. Eslick, at the
Palais de Danse, is working the sporting
idea of a show for which you will pay more
and more for each day you delay booking.
The new South Aus. Orchestra has
appeared at last, after much preparation.
Prof. Harold Davies, of the Uni. Conserva-
tonum, is conductor, and W. R. Cade
(violinist) is leader. Its first showing at
the Town Hall on a Saturday afternoon was
so successful that there had to be a second
helping a week later. It was an artistic
success in a popular programme, ranging
from Mozart to Dvorak, from Berlioz to
Elgar.


sbkh
o
's'
99
99
LSELEY
POST-WAR
FI FTEENf
' \>
f : i\
■ i':
ik 1
•:» •!
ii ii w n
ij # ::i, ii
fif
Miiiifii.' 4 ,
fl : 'i
:Ii : i $ W i
; !
i .
ills y.
■ :
■ i
ss
■l< ■:
: j /
:: : : if:{
i: | $:
i
siK • ;•
Mi
;;
m ; a ; > *> J
j - ■.*> •:: j # :: 5 >fs*
foW: g 3 IK'
y-Ll J
Ii:
M i
J "... • •
/111
hM*
? iiiw
ill
/C/'
wsn.i
yiv <■
YY'
<3&?§
*a&
yxSOjK
fJCgKSaoeok. .^V AVwwwV)OQ^^
Si
: U\J
.-r^owiaowjiv
A Genuine
Post-War Model.
Now that the Post-War Model Wolseley “Fifteen’ has arrived in
Australia it has proved itself to be the car “well worth waiting for.”
The GENUINE Post-War Model is a real revelation as regards
Motor Car Perfection—a more wonderful car than even the most
sanguine of experts had dared to anticipate.
Fitted with a truly marvellous engine that is accessible to a degree
that can be claimed in no other car the world over, it combines
wonderful “responsiveness” with an ease and simplicity of control
that renders unthought-of delight to the driver.
In every feature it proves itself to be THE Masterpiece in motor-
car construction, for hand in hand with the mechanical perfection
contained throughout is a beauty of line and a comfort (because of
its wonderful suspension springing) that at once rates the Wolseley
Post-War Model “Fifteen” as unsurpassable.
Complete weight is under 23cwt., and taken from the stripped
chassis weight of 15cwt. and brake-horsepower of 45 h.p., the
power-weight ratio equals 3 h.p. to the cwt.
Enquire from Representative i n
YOUR City for Inspection Appointment.
REPRESENTATIVES.
VICTORIA.
DALGETY & CO., LTD-
-664 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
H. C. RICHARDS, LTD.,
64 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
AUSTRALIA.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
DALGETY & CO M LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
TASMANIA.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE,
LTD., 105 Macquarie Street, Hobart.
QUEENSLAND.
MET. GARAGE & MOTOR AGENCY
CO., LTD., Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA.
THE ARMSTRONG MOTOR & CYCLE
AGENCY, LTD., Hay Street, Perth.
•QNVIV3Z M3N
G. W. SPRAGG, Auckland; INGLIS BROS., Wellington; BETT & BAYLY Palmerston
North: TODD BROS., LTD., Christchurch; TODD LTD DunediS"
WINTRINGHAM & MITCHELL, Blenheim. ’ ’
WOLSELEY MOTORS, LIMITED,
Head Office for Australia, 125 William Street, Melbourne.
(Proprietors: Vickers Ltd.)
Worts:
Adderley Park
Birmingham,
England.


Exclusive
Stewart Dawson’s
Outrivalling in Variety and Splendor the
Richest Displays of the World’s great
Commercial Centres.
Stewart Dawson’s rare Diamonds are sett
in Pure Platinum, and are without doubt
the last word in Quality and Value.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS.
Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
PERTH (Aust.).
REGENT STREET (LONDON).
STEWART DAWSON’S
Largest jewellers of the Empire.
D 9925 —New Design
Single-Stone
Diamond Circle
Brooch, Platinum
and 15-ct. Gold,
£7/10/-
KB24 —Beautiful
Diamond Set .Circle
Brooch, £25.
KlB2 —Elegant Design Fine White Diamonds,
set in Platinum and 15ct. Gold, £2l.
KlB0 —Choice Design Platinum Faced Dia-
mond Set Brooch, £B/10/-
KlB3 —Artistic Design Fine White Diamonds,
set in Platinum and loct. Goid, £2O.
KBlO- —Fine Quality
Diamond Set Circle
Brooch, Platinum
and 15ct. Gold,
K 997 —Dainty De-
sign Diamond Set
. Circle Brooch,
Platinum and
last. Gold,
£B/10/-
Mounting's
Rare Diamonds.
Call at any of the Stewart Dawson
Establishments and inspect their beauti-
ful assortment of Diamond Ring Designs,
which is continually being added to.
Remember high-grade stones are a per-
manent investment.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS.
Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRIST-
CHURCH, DUNEDIN (N.Z.),
HATTON GARDEN (LONDON).
iSTEWART DAWSON’S
Write jor Latest Catalogue.
POVERTY
POINT
MOËT &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
Gordon Gooch, who died in Sydney the
other day, was an old-time basso of whom
Melbourne contemporaries of the ’eighties
have very kindly memories. Gooch lent bis
big voice to the Melbourne Philharmonic
about that period, and for some years after-
wards he had a champion reputation as an
oratorio performer. Previously, in the
’seventies, he had shown his qualities on
the concert platform as principal basso of
Madame Carandini’s co., which included
Madame’s brilliant daughter Rosina, who
has been long known in Melbourne as Mrs.
Palmer. Gooch also sang a good deal in
London, where he did some hard training
under the celebrated Randegger.
“Ox”: Recent claims on behalf of actors,
musicians and theatrical employees, unless
they are considerably moderated, are likely
to give the 35., 25., and Is. shows a jolt,
and many of them will have to go out. The
proposed increased wages are all in favor of
the big firms which get 10s. lOd. for a
Saturday-night ticket and pay many of their
employees the same rate as the manager
who collects only 3s. 3d. per head. Inciden-
tally, high salaries for actors will naturally
mean smaller casts. It. has done, so, at
any rate, on the other side. In a London
production only two people appear during
the whole evening.
“Snell”: Occasionally a play is better on
the pictures. I first saw “Kindling” as a
film drama, under another name, and it con-
veyed the idea much better than the stage
CECIL PARKES,
Victoria’s young
violinist.
version as pro-
duced at Melbourne
King’s. The staged
play failed to con-
vey the idea of a
damp and noisome
slum, with fungoid
walls and T.B.
creeping up the
doorposts, without
which much of the
incentive behind the
heroine’s crime
goes for nix. In the
film-production the
home of Maggie
Shules looked as if
it would inevitably
damn any offspring
born into it, but in
the Tait produc-
tion the home was
dry and spacious, if
not gaudy, with
copious sunlight
streaming in at two
large open win-
dows. Those two
windows, with
floods of salubrious
warmth always on them, were sufficient to
make all Mrs. Shules’s fears for her coming
kiddie faintly absurd, and they stand for
the most thoughtless sample of stage
management within my recollection.
The report that Emelie Polini is retiring
from the stage at the conclusion of her Mel-
bourne season is greatly exaggerated. She
has purchased a grazing property in N. S.
Wales, but is only going there for a rest,
and presently the spotlight will fall upon
her again.
Fanny Wiseman —otherwise Mrs. Francis
South —was a prouder woman one day last
week than she has been in all her half-cen-
tury before the footlights. At the Fitzroy
Town Hall the Mayor, handed her the 1914
star won by her youngest son. He fell at
Lone Pine.
In Brisbane “The Boss Cockie” has made
its earlier promise good, and that in "the
face of many difficulties. With 14 other
shows against it, including Wirths’ Circus
and “Lightnin’,” and the night-opening of
the Agricultural Show, its burdens were
increased by bad housing. By sheer merit
it pulled the crowd round to its back street
in the second week, and is playing through
its third to big audiences. “The Boss
Cockie” has broken new ground in Austra-
lian stage art; and without slap-stick or
red nose or exaggeration or questionable
humor it is a winner. Its Sydney season
opens at the Royal on August 14.
“J.F.H.” (London) : Exit at 70, Chief
Crown Prosecutor Sir Charles Matthews. He
was a stepson of the famous light comedian
of the same name, and accompanied him to
Australia half a century ago, playing small
parts in Sydney and Melbourne. He liked
Australia, and once contemplated settling in
Sydney, but returned to London and the Law.
King Edward, whose friend he was, knighted
him at the inauguration of the new Criminal
Court in the Old Bailey.
“Hamfat”: “Silas’s” yarn (B. 22/7/’2O)
reminds me of a wealthy and amorous patron
of the stage I met in M.L. He had de-
veloped a passion for a lady in a company
playing in Adelaide and had followed her to
“TILLY OF BLOOMSBURY,” AT
SYDNEY CRITERION.
The Rev. Adrian Rydands (Fred Coape)
calls upon Lady Mainwaring (Mrs.
Brough ).
N. S. Wales, where he had transferred his
affections to a girl in another show. But
a charmer who came into the company there
attracted him, and he followed when she went
on a M.L. tour; but again, in Auckland, he
succumbed to the fascinations of a coryphee
in a rival troupe. Then he encountered our
company and the soubrette captured his rov-
ing fancy. But he dropped us at Welling-
ton for a touring concert party; and when
next I heard of him he was in pursuit of a
circus, being enraptured with a young person
in pink tights. I believe a tow-headed bar-
maid finally pinned him down.
“Stargazer”: “Film Fan” (B. 22/7/20)
seems to think he has disposed of my con-
tention that the backwoods figures in the
film version of “The Breaking of the
Drought” wear clothing that doesn’t rightly
belong, by telling me triumphantly that two
of the three male principals are real farmers,
and that the others concerned always have
belonged to the great Nor’-West. But this
leaves matters very much as they were, un-
less “Film Fan” contends that farmers must
necessarily make perfect stage representa-
tives of farmers. Readers familiar with
the cocky know how he dives for his good
clothes immediately a camera shows over
the hill. I don’t want the Yankee film. I
want very particularly to see the Australian
film chase it off the earth so far as the Corn-
wealth is concerned; but that will never
happen until we get real realism instead of
the foolish pretence of reality that so often
disfigures local products.
“T. D. Emdee” : After nearly breaking his
heart in the hunt, Bert Bailey has at last
secured a theatre in London—the Lyric—
wherein to produce “On Our Selection.”
And now we shall see how the . Cockneys
appreciate Australian types quite different
in most respects from those they met in
uniform. It is a good thing Bailey has some
Australian actors to support him. When
Alfred Dampier produced “Robbery Under
Arms” in London in October, 1894, he
had Herbert Flemming and George Buller
in the cast, and Charles Charrington (hus-
band of Janet Achurch) also helped the
piece along. As to Dampier himself, Wil-
liam Archer, the critic, said he had “one of
the pleasantest-speaking voices I have ever
heard.”
“Old Pot”: The storm in “Tiger Rose”
stands alone, so far as my memory serves
me, in the annals of the Australian stage.
It is novel because it is “off” ; the audience
sees the rain through the open door and
the windows as they are lit by the flashes
of lightning. Stage-storms “on” have not
been uniformly successful. I remember one
in the ’eighties at the Sydney Royal—in
“Alone in London.” The macintoshed
actors —mainly supers—walked in the rain,
which fell from pipes. The trouble was
that the pipes, like the shower of a -bath,
continued to leak after they had done their
work, and that was hardly the thing in a
sunshine effect which followed. It was
worse when it reached an interior.
“T.D.M.”: Gone west, John Borthwiek.
one of the oldest of the “front of the house”
staff of the Firm. Borthwiek was of late
days dress-circle cloak-room attendant at the
Criterion in Sydney, and looked much less
than the three-score and ten lie bad reached.
His daughter, Nellie, of the J.C.W. opera,
co., is the wife of dancer-comedian Fred
Leslie.
“To Po”: Long ago ill-luck persistently
followed the Deacon Skinners of “Struck
Oil.” One after the other played the part
and retired from all stages. Players are
proverbially superstitious, and only increased
salary kept the part filled. I remember
one night a roar of applause greeted the
new Skinner, who rolled his eyes upwards
and unctuously clasped his hands in re-
sponse ; but, all the same, he would rather
have been almost anywhere else.
“Biobox” : Nothing short of total paralysis
will prevent a Yank movie-star from getting
pufflicity. Beaumont Smith tells that when
he was. in Los Angeles recently Douglas
Fairbanks’s house caught fire. That was a
good news par. for the morning papers. ■ but
Doug turned it into a better one. He rushed
into four nearby buildings and borrowed their
gramophones. Then, placing the quartette
in suitable positions, he entertained the fire-
men with canned music till the last reporter
had faded into the night.
“Ike Pagliacci”: Charlie Woods was all
right as an actor when brother Alf cast him
in homely rOles. But even Charles’s best
friends were concerned when he played
Pharaoh in Maud Williamson’s Joseph and
Mrs. Potiphar, which preceded J.C.W,’s flash
Joseph and his Brethren by many years.
Mrs. Pot. having laid her charge and Joe
having offered evidence for the defence,
Charles Pharaoh declaimed: “And do you
still ad’ere to this acquisition?”
“Ox”: Not generally known that “The
Fatal Wedding,” recently revived at Syd-
ney Grand Opera House for the umpteenth
time, and always a money-spinner, was made
in Australia. Author Theo Kremer played
minor roles here in minor companies and
offered his play for country production to
both Wilson Forbes and Dan Barry. Each
turned a deaf ear. Kremer was suspected
here of translating bits fyoin foreign produc-
tions, but the edge was worn off the libel
when he followed “The Fatal Wedding” with
numerous other bellowdrama successes.
“Machete” : “D.F.,” in laying down the
law that writers of songs rarely get much
money out of the game, “99 per cent.” going
to composer and publisher, quotes the £l4O
estate of the late Theo. Marzials in support.
But Marzials was the composer of the
dozens of popular songs on which his name
appeared, and must have made pots of
money in his time, however little he left be-
hind. Most of his songs were written by
F. E. Weatherley, who also supplied the
yo-ho stuff for Stephen Adams and rhymes
for a dozen other composers. Weatherley
retired an independent man years ago, all
won from “Nancy Lee,” “They All Love
Jack,” “Twickenham Ferry” and gallons of
similar innocuous slops.
“Chev”: Synge’s “Playboy of the Western
World” has recently been done in Italian
at one of the theatres in Rome, with Emma
Grammatica as the Playboy. A very differ-
ent interpretation this from the “Playboy”
of the Abbey Theatre, Dublin, but admitted
to. be a charming spectacle by the Italian
critics, who speak of Synge as “father of
the grotesque play.”
“Selbourne”: Judging by the preliminary
muster in the Town Hall when an attempt
was made to revive the Melbourne Reper-
tory Theatre, there is ground for ..the assump-
tion that “Bing Boys” and “Little Widows”
are our high-water mark in intellectual
drama. At the Town Hall meeting, held in
one of the upper rooms, just 29 people rolled
up. Of this muster 20 were women. The
Melbourne army of lecturers, authors,
teachers and learned persons was conspicu-
ous by its absence. The chair was taken
by a doctor of medicine; the. acting-secretary
was one w T ho deals with bills and things
up at Parliament; most of the talking was
done by two daily-newspaper men. A com-
mittee was formed, but though six weeks
have passed nothing more has been heard
of it. “The Widows” and undies retain
possession of the field.
“Vaude. Vet.”: Helen Keller at last comes
“Kissing Time,” at
Sydney Majesty's-
Harry Ratcliffe, as
cook of the thirty-
third.
to vaudeville. The
deaf, blind and
formerly dumb girl
recently attracted
tremendous audi-
ences to New York
Palace. All she
does is to give an
address —which is
not strictly i n
accordance with the
rules for vaudeville
entertainers laid
down after the
recent equity
strike. However,
Helen Keller gave
not only sympathy
but assistance that
me-ant valuable
publicity to the
cause during the
upheaval, and there
has been no demur
about her profes-
sional appearances.
Another unusual
act which recently
topped the bill at
the same theatre
was supplied by the
Band of the House
of David the
religious body with
the superfluous
hair.
“Smike”: Anybody desiring to emulate
comedian Frith’s amazing grimaces in “Yes,
Uncle.” at Melbourne Royal, can get some
valuable practice by having his teeth
extracted slowly without an anaesthetic.
This produces a good, flexible face capable
of suggesting anything from a gazeka to a
gargoyle with the colic. But a less painful
scheme is to get someone to tie your hands
to a chair and start a fly, previously dipped
in treacle, wandering over your countenance.
The dial, writhing voluntarily, will soon
acquire the trick of turning itself inside
out. When I look at Frith I fancy he has
followed this method, and probably once or
twice has swallowed the fly.
“Mirza”: The American producer and
scenario-writer take the movie audience
right down to the sewers. A much-praised
film recently screened in Melbourne has a
ridiculous plot, no morals, mediocre actors
and quite plain actresses. It condones
immorality, murder, easy divorce and per-
jury, and as a drama it would be considered
an insult to present it to the most unintel-
ligent. Yet it wins rounds of applause
nightly, simply because every now and again
the star sheds her few rags and gyrates in
a bead costume that makes the most daring
stage outfit look like a Baptist’s winter model.
Incidentally, there is a prelude wherein a
bright little Australian gives her pleasing
interpretation of the dance. But she gets
only a tenth part of the applause. Seem-
ingly she wears too much clothing to please
the movie gloater.
The Scarlet Follies are arranging a con-
cert to be held in August in aid of the funds
of the T. B. Soldiers’ Assoc, of N. S. Wales.
Everybody knows the jolly evening’s enter-
tainment supplied by the Follies, and every-
body ought to know what a deserving cause
is this of the T.B. soldiers.
Helen Jerome’s songs have charmed
music-loving Americans. Mana Zucca,
N’York’s favorite composer, is to introduce
a number of them in the autumn, anci he was
at latest setting to music the Russian
“Nichavo,” written by Mrs. Jerome for
The Bulletin some years ago. Writer
and composer may collaborate later on in a
song-cycle or an opera.
“Old Pot”: Not even the name, Douglas
Ross, saves the actor from being found
guilty on a charge of forging and uttering
a bogus Scottish accent as Hector McCol-
lins, the factor, in “Tiger Rose.” Save
from the “Bunty” company. Walter Bent-
ley and Eloise Juno, Australian stage-Scotch
has been deplorable during the last 40 years.
Daisy Kennedy annoys conventional critics
by playing the Best Music in musical-
comedy trappings. She opened her cam-
paign in Melbourne last week in a sleeve-
less frock of cornflower-blue with the wraith
of a bottle-green wrap hanging defiantly
from her shoulders. Champagne shoes with
dinky tango straps touring her champagne
ankles completed an outfit that was con-
sidered rather elated for the concert plat-
form.
Allan Wilkie broke the story of “The
Rotters” to a full house at Melb. Princess’s
on Saturday night, and there was clotted
cream in the front stalls and d.c. Wilkie,
greatly pleased by his reception, made a
speech promising all manner of treats. In
addition to special repertory matinees, he
is preparing an unusual production of “Mac-
beth.”
ACTRESS ONCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Mrs. Smidth a room invades,
You feel it’s done by rote and rule.
She doesn’t walk, good dame, she wades,
Or, in the manner of a school
Now quite defunct, she drags her toes,
A trick of Irvine’s every dunce
Has copied. Each observer knows,
As from the right to left she goes,
That Miriam was an actress once.
In through a doorway comes not she
As common human beings might;
She “Makes an entrance, L.U.E.,”
And going out she “Exits, right.”
She “Moves down centre” with a grace
That Bernhardt took delight in, too,
And when she occupies a space
You’ll note the spotlight on her face,
And feel she’s waiting for her cue.
Her voice has not the mincing tone
The other women use. When she
Asks for the sugar it is known
She’s talking to the gallery.
She’s Mrs. Brough, sometimes she’s Beere,
Oft Mrs. Potter. Squatting low
As Margaret Anglin she’ll appear.
“She was,” her friend lisps in my ear,
“Chair-warmer in a minstrel show!”
victoria.
STARGAZER.


Seaplanes
~ and Aero Engines.
VICKERS-VIMY COMMERCIAL.
■Mi
Jjt'«f. gj’x, ’ - - 'I
«HH|
■
mm
... ,r:-v-
VICKERS-VIMY TRANS-ATLANTIC.
The machines illustrated can be supplied immediately from England. Also all makes of
engines, ranging from 75h.p, up to 400h.p.
Prices for complete machines ranging from £6OO upwards.
aero
• '
*V»O 504.5 C.
WB HAVIEkAND. No. 8.
-'■■■' '
OE HAVILLANO No 4
** HAVH,LAN D No. 90.
BRISTOL FICHTES?
F.2.S
■:
p c, IB
:■ , ; ..
M:
; ' |
S.E 9 a
m
ze
SOFWJTH SNIPE
I j K
mm
F.Z.A, FLYING BOAT.
F.X FMfWQ '»OAT.
SSlljil
aHWWfcii
NORMAN THOMPSON FLYING BOAT <«.T. 1.8.1
For full particulars write to *
VICKERS-AUSTRALIA LTD., Aviation Dept.
WM. ADAMS CO. LTD., =
Corner of King' ®, Clarence Streets, Sydne^l
MELBOURNE:
Wm. ADAMS & CO Ltd.,
521-523 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
96-98 Currie Street.
BRANCH OFFICES:—
BRISBANE:
Edward and Mary Streets.
.
PERTH:
33-35 King Street.
Watt Street


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
&WHITTY
LE
mm.
t
sW
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
V
II
m
c-a-c- cm
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND jj~c-/vc .~TX=> BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA—CoIIins House. Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, Sydney - - - Phone City 2677
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street. Rrisbane Phone 2382
X 3 C A C
CA'C.
j C A C-
o-v-o J.
SYDNEY
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
When in Kalgoorlie, the Prince landed a
bet of £5O to £6 on a horse called Four Kings—
the name attracted him —and that is his most pro-
fitable bit of punting in Australia to date. A
AVestralian commentator explains that he always
gives preference to bookmakers who have been sol-
diers. The secret of the royal favor extended to
Sam Allen is now unveiled.
When the racing year closed on July 31,
AV. Lillyman headed the list of winning jockeys in
N. S. Wales, averaging a trifle more than one win
a week. A fashionable jockey makes more money
than a Prime Minister. Lillyman goes in for real
estate and is part-proprietor of two picture-shows.
Another Sydney horseman draws rent from 14 houses.
The passing of Thomas M. Slattery at
Mosman (Sydney) last week recalls the awful luck
which dogged his efforts to get rich at horse-racing.
Slattery hung his purse to the prad that he’d chris-
tened with the initials T.M.S. ; but the brute had
such an uncanny habit of just missing that habituCs
interpreted the letters to mean “Too Many Seconds.”
A small fortune was dropped by old Tom and his
friends when T.M.S. was runner-up to Marvel Loch
in the Metrop of 1903 and third to Sir Foote and
Purser in the Doncaster of 1902.
S. A. Jockey Club has finished the first
year under new secretary A. V. Kewney (formerly
of the Westralian goldfields), and it has been
a successful one. The club made a profit of several
thousands, and carries forward £48,000. A new
totalisator has been contracted for, and various
enclosures will be shifted about a good deal during
the alterations. The club, which is the main racing
authority in S.A., is laying down a new system
for colors, there having been awkward confusion over
the result in one or two recent cases. Only two
out of 12 named colors will be permitted in one
costume, but it is claimed that the clear distinction
of stripes, spots, sashes and so on will allow quite
500 easily-distinguishable combinations.
* * * *
On the last day of the Q.T.C. meeting
Molly’s Robe got away with the Denman Plate
(9fur. w.f.a.) in Ijsec. under Gloaming’s (Aus-
tralasian record) time for the distance. Also she
carried 301 b. more than the flying gelding, who, on
the other hand, was not pushed in his effort. Master
Wqrkon, whom Molly’s Robe beat by half a length,
ran second earlier in the afternoon in the Exhibition
Handicap (11 mile), which says something on the
subject of his stamina.
♦ • # *
Demosthenes came out top of M.U.’s win-
ning sires in the just-ended season with £27,000
add —of which Amythas, head of the winning horses,
contributed £7695. Martian had held the posi-
tion for the previous six seasons. Karo won £2995,
Gloaming £2625 and Sasanof £1685 in stakes.
W. R. Kemball, with his numerous stable, heads
the owners with £10,935, followed by F. S. Easton
(Amvthas’s owner) with £10,310.
A ukase went forth from the N. S. Wales
Chief Secretary last week that Sydney’s betting-
shops were to be abolished, or, anyhow, seriously
attacked. Sydney Telegraph expressed the cyni-
cal view that the move was being made “so that
additional sums of money might be diverted to the
racecourses, and incidentally more money obtained
for the Treasury from bookmakers and the totalisa-
tor.” But even a Labor Government may get tired
of seeing the law broken as a matter of ordinary
business. In both Sydney and Melbourne illegal
betting has been as open as. and a good deal
more general than, stock-broking. And where the
offenders were prominent financially they were
safe. And these are not the times when license
should be given to the rich to do things for which
the poor are punished.
“0.K.”: The death of Mark Whitty in
Melbourne last week has put one of my happiest
racing recollections into mourning. Long years
ago Mark had particular success as a trainer of
hurdle racers, and he was, I fancy, the only man
at the game to win a National two years running
with the same horse—Buzzi. I forget whether his
son Alfred, w'ho rode as an amateur, had the mount
on Buzzi both times, but I’m thinking of what was
probably the first time the horse with an Italian
name got home. Buzzi being a popular singing
teacher the correct pronunciation of his name was
generally known. So the crowd sitting atop of
Flemington stand to see the National was rather
astonished to hear somebody shouting “Bussy wins”
when the last awful moment had arrived. The
voice of the screamer grew louder and louder, and
all who had time to turn their heads remarked that
it was Mark AVhitty. There was the old sport,
sitting aloft on his own, proclaiming the victory
of “Bussy” and urging his offspring to “Stick to
him.” One hears a lot of waste of breath on a
racecourse. I’ve heard nothing that pleased me
more than the voice of the trainer of the horse and
the father of the jockey, adding his quota to the
futility of the din with a fond injunction to “Stick
to him, Alf; stick to him!”
Squatter Tom Crothers has been elected
to Sydney Tatt.’s Club committee, beating George
Marlow- easily. Foster was not in it with the
other two. Still, even Crothers didn’t win a seat
till the fourth time of trying.
* * * *
Norman Godby’a recent successes in jump-
ing races —evidence of all the nags in his stables
being “ready to jump out
of their skins” —will in-
cline the hearts of punters
to Sandule (if they are
not already enamored of
Shadow Dancer) for the
Australian Hurdle Race
next Saturday. After last
Saturday’s racing at
Moonee Valley it looks as
though Sandule is likely
to repeat his National vic-
tory over Bright Plume, and
although it may lie that
Pistolier has a pull in the
weights, and the last
lingering doubt as to Two
Blues is not cleared away,
the honest pretensions of
Sandule can be left On
their meirts. He’s a
fine-looking horse; an
advance of 191 b. on his
National weight doesn’t
put him out of it; and
he’s just turned six, which
is much better than being
just turned 10 or 12, like
some of them. Next to
Sandule the writer fancies
Sir Mnemon for this long
journey.
W. S. HICKEN-
BOTHAM. the well-
known traintr.
N. S. Wales’s second Rugby. Union match
against M.L. on the cold, damp Sydney Sports
Ground attracted about 3000 less enthusiasts than
the first. The conditions, which were slushy, suited
the visitors, and they won without undue exertion
by 14—6. The home team, as a whole, gave an
even worse display than in the previous game, pos-
sibly owing to the fact that the Maorilanders were
allowed a comparatively free rein by the referee.
The inclusion of Farquhar among the AValers’ backs
did not make much difference to the attack, as the
ball rarely reached him. Mayne, on the other wing,
was the most frequent recipient, but, lacking the
necessary “toe,” made little use of his opportunities.
The lack of combination was calamitous. AValker
was frequently in a position to start the clock
going, but the ball seldom got past Lawton, as
the other backs were out of possie. Mayne’s roving
disposition made him a frequent offender in this
respect. The forwards want re-shuffling in the pack ;
it was noticeable, that those who had most work
to do in the scrums were very conspicuous in the
open. Bond’s was a case in point for the workers,
and Ormiston’s for the also-rans. The M.L. backs,
Storey and Steel, were very fine, and Roberts, at
half, was miles ahead of the N.S.W. ball-snatcher.
Tilyard, the visiting skipper, at five-eighth, was
very safe, and always made a lot of ground before
passing it on. The forwards, who were far ahead
of the AValers, are remarkably clever with their
feet, but were rather inclined to individualism on
the day.
* •* * *
Sydney Metropolitan Rugby Union team
on Monday put up the best game to date against
tlie Maorilanders. ’They actually led by 6—o at
half-time*; and, although in the opening stages of
the second half the irresistible Blacks scored 14
points in as many minutes, the Harborsiders looked
like scoring again when the final whistle enabled
the invaders to snatch a hard-fought game by 20—
11. Jacobs played very solidly for the winners,
and Carroll and Beiliss were prominent all through.
Tilyard’s long passing was a revelation. Robert’s
frequent attempts at conversion were very feeble —
pots at goal being missed from the easiest of
positions. This department seems to have been
overlooked by the selectors.
The prelim, was ’Varsity v. Combined Great
Public Schools, and the boys made a draw of it —
11 all.
* * * *
There was a crowd of 15,000 at Sydney
Cricket Ground when Smacker Blair booted off for
South Sydney against Balmain in the second match
of the second round of Sydney League Competition.
The Itabbitos went down to the tune of 14 points
(four tries one goal) to eight points (two tries
one goal), the Dockers’ superiority being chiefly
a matter of extra poundage plus Chook Fraser and
Junker Robinson. The middle of the playing area
was a mudhole. Yet the game was one of the best
exhibitions of the season. Souths prevailed in the
first spasm. They fielded five three-quarters and
five forwards. The latter were quite as successful
in the scrums as those of the premiers, and when
they lost the ball they broke up with astonishing
suddenness. At the interval their team led by
eight to six. Balmain, contrary to tradition, aban-
doned dribbling tactics, and were handicapped to
that extent. In the second half they pulled Snowy
Latta into the backs and played Souths at their
own game. Chook Fraser at central three
played superb football, tackling and running like a
demon. His 30yds. pass to Junker Robinson on
the wing was the work of a tradesman. Robinson
was the best man on the field, and to his efforts
the Dockers can attribute a lot of their success.
’Main’s scrummevs did not predominate as was
expected, Chang Schultz and Russell being the
pick. Pony Halloway gave way to George Robin-
son at scrum-half and played as stand-off half. The
old ’un did very well, everything considered. Souths
played great football, their backs combining splen-
didly, but towards the end of the first half and
throughout the second weight and persistency told.
Hallet at full-back was a revelation, his punting,
handling and tackling being splendid. Tiger
Gillespie was the best man on the mud, and broke
through repeatedly. Boxhead Horder improves with
every game, and his two tries were the result of
nippiness and quick thinking. Skipper Fusedule
was most agile, and twice hurdled the opposing
backs. Smacker Blair at half was not so slick
as usual. Bluey Oxford, Jack Baker and ex-
Bananalander McGrath shone out. The other matches
provided one big surprise, viz., the downing of
Easts by Newtown. Newtown got to the seasiders,
who were without Sandy Pearce, Carb Messenger
and Hobo Oubitt, and walloped them by eight
points to nil. Norths were at home to the ’Var-
sity triers, whom they defeated, after a strenuous
tussle, by 13 to three, pulling the game out of
the fire in the last quarter of an hour. Wests
laced Annandale at Pratten Park by 52 to three.
Glebe had the bye and visited Orange, where they
defeated the locals by 23 to 14.
After their fortnight’s spell, Melbourne’s
League barrackers rolled up with recuperated lungs
to view the collision of the Magpies and the Tigers.
It was a tremendous encounter, too hard and close
for high scoring, and a shade too willing. ’Wood,
though handicapped by the loss of Alick Mutch
early in the game—he was carried out on a
stretcher —held Richmond ri&ht up to the close
solely by more systematic methods; then the reck-
less slinging of Richmond’s surest goal-getter in
front of the posts gave the game away, and the
Tigers won by 38 points to ’Wood’s 36. Carlton,
striving against South for fourth place on the list,
started sensationally, rattling up four goals in the
first 10 minutes. Then South got down to it, and
was within three points at the first change. After
that the Old Blues put on another four goals, and
kept them throughout, finishing with 80 points to
South’s 53. Essendon flung away its last chance of
getting into the finals by playing a close, scrambling
game against the heavier battlers of St. Kilda.
AVith open play ’Don’s might have prevailed; as
it was, they crashed with 51 points to Saints’ 70.
’Roy went down to Geelong, and returned with a
victory—s 4 points to 33 —that meant more than it
looked. ’Roy now leads the competition, and as
it has only' one stiff game yet to play—against
’AVood —it has a lively hope of keeping its lofty
place. And that means a double chance for the
premiership.
* * * *
The return Australian-game football match
between Vic. and S. Aus. was a staggering surprise.
Last year Vic. won each time by a single goal, after
heavy scoring. This season, in Melbourne, S. Aus.
got home by less than a goal. AVhen they met again
in Adelaide another great struggle was expected. It
was there, up to half-time, when the visitors led
by 3 points only. After that they did much as
they liked, and the horrible total was 10 goals
14 behinds to 3 goals 6 behinds. The ground was
very heavy, and Adelaide men are used to hard
going. Still, this team should have got accustomed
to mud, for the city has had rain off and on all
through the last 10 weeks —except for a few fine
days that began just as the Prince arrived and saw
his stay out. The crowd at the match was 40,000,
probably the biggest the Oval has ever seen; but
half of them had melted away before the too-painful
slaughter was at an end.
* * * *
It’s great sport watching oversea boxing
through the cables. Here’s Sydney Sun; —
“At Newark, New Jersey, last night, Harry Wills,
the New York negro heavyweight, knocked out Fred
Fulton in three rounds.”
Then Sydney Evening News leaps in:—
“At Newark, New Jersey, Fred Fulton knocked
out Harry Wills, the negro heavyweight, in the
third round.”
In these days of hot competition you can have any
winner you like for three ha’pence.
* * * *
Billy Tingle (Bst. gave Bob Gray
(Bst. 21b.) the father and mother of a hiding at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday night. In previous
bouts the tendency of Tingle has been to open trucu-
lently and, after bustling his man about the ring
at the point of • a weighty right, to unexpectedly
peter out. Unfortunately for Gray, on this occasion,
Tingle went straight on. His condition was almost
as solid at the end of the performance as at the
beginning, and the variety of new hits which he
displayed was dazzling. K.O. Brown, of America, is
to engage Tingle next Saturday. If the Yank wins
he should have a show against any of the midget
brigade that we possess.
The Amateur Athletic Assoc, of S.A. has
a new chairman. W. A. Magarey retires, after fill-
J. G. TURNER,
Master Warden
of the Hobart
Marine Board ,
who has been
on the Regatta
Committee for
forty-one years.
ing the chair from
the last reforma-
tion of the body.
Former chairmen
were Talbot Smith,
A. J. Roberts and
H. D. Sutherland.
Magarey’s guidance
has been very use-
ful, and so is the
presence of a lor
of recent English
arrivals, brought
up on long-distance
running. Adelaide’s
park - lands are
ideal for that kind
of thing, and
several clubs now
flourish. The new
chairman, Whit-
more Car r, has
every qualification.
On the Parramatta River (Sydney) last
Saturday most interest centred in Alt Felton and
Ernest Barry, who were on scratch. Both qualified
for next Saturday’s final by finishing second in their
heats. Felton’s sculling was the more impressive,
his blade-work being very clean. Barry rowed in
beautiful style in the early part of the race, and
put up fastest time (9min. 57sec.) ; but over the
last quarter-mile he rolled a great deal. Dick
Arnst, deep-cliested and ruddy, put in a lion-like
finish when the race was over, he being at the time
some 50yds. behind the winner. None of the per-
formers was more promising than R. Short (lOsec.),
who won from Felton arid W. Paddon. Over the
last quarter-mile he was doing better than the
world’s champion, and he was the least-distressed
sculler on the day. The other heat-winners were
A. Cowell (40sec.) and old-timers George Towns
(45sec.) and Charlie Matterson (55sec.) ; both of
whom rowed straight as a gun-barrel.
* * * *
Joe Kirkwood has again out-foozled the
best of Australia’s golfers. During the three weeks’
carnival at Sydney he' outplayed the professionals
and made the best of the amateurs look foolish.
In the open championship he went rouhd Kensington
in a wonderfully consistent 74, 74, 71, 71—290 for
72 holes; he was four “up” on D. G. Soutar, 12
on Fred Popplewell, 16 on C. Campbell and 21 on
the best amateur card by Tom Howard. Last week
Kirkwood drifted to the suburbs, and, despite the
handicap of “plus 12,” won at Manly (36 holes
stroke play) with 153, Killara (36 holes) with 152
and Concord with 152. Kirkwood’s success comes
through temperament, suppleness and condition. The
bulky D. G. Soutar (runner up) .takes golf as
meals. He plays golf, talks golf, writes golf for
Sydney Sun, dreams golf and waxes fat on golf.
When he was less corpulent in 1905 he won the
Australian open championship with 330, and now
(15 years later) he is still on the second rung.
Carnegie Clark, who took the open in 1906 with
322, in 1910 with 311, and in 1912 with 321, was
tenth this year with 316, but he isn't as young as
he used to be or as nimble as he thinks he is,
and this affects his swing. Still, he is within six
strokes of Kirkwood. Among the budding champions,
V. James and R. Stewart (each with 313) diu well
and are most likely to be heard of in future.
> * * * *
N. S. Wales baseballers won the rubber
against Victoria at Sydney on Saturday by three
runs to one. Vic. had downed N. S. Wales by B—4
during the week, chiefly owing to the fine pitching
of J. Abberton.
. * * * *
The Marquess of Queensberry, who died
in South Africa last week, succeeded the author of
the “Queensberry Rules” in the title 20 years ago.
Like every other member cf this strange family, he
was as truculent as a bull-ant and frightened of
neither God, man nor public opinion. He was with
his brother Alfred when the unprecedented spectacle
was offered of a member of the House of Lords
fighting his own son in the middle of Piccadilly.
This scrap arose out of the Wilde case; but it
only represented one out of scores in which the
brothers engaged. The late Marquess, though not
strong physically, was a useful boxer and a fine
horseman. He was also handy with a gun, and
shortly before his death proved it by shooting a man
dead in America.
* * * *
Joe Broome, who died at Hamilton
(N.S.W.) last week, was a pioneer of the Public
Schools Amateur Athletic Assoc., and among the
few who worried out the plan of the tableau for
The Day which annually cheers the youngsters’
hearts. He was mathematics teacher at Paddington
(Sydney) S.P.S. for 30 years until he retired in
1913 through ill-health.
* * # *
“Footy” Pearce, of Double Bay, Sydney,
died last Saturday, aged 69. His nickname was due
to his prehensile toes, which would have earned him
a handsome salary on any vaudeville stage. But
he never needed to leave the waterside for a living.
He was the most eminent fisherman Sydney Harbor
has had, and one of its best oarsmen. In skiffs, 45
years ago, he was unbeatable. In 1881 he gave
Bill Beach, then in his prime, a handicap of 20-odd lb.
(carried in the boat) and a licking, and for years no
one could touch him on level terms in a heavy boat
when in form. Harry Pearce (ex-sculling champion
of Australia) and Sid Pearce (League footballer) are
sons.
THE ETERNAL TRAGEDY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A groat crowd assembled at Hendon to witness
the start and finish of the Aerial Derby. Book-
makers were permitted to operate.” London cable.
“They’re off!” And the yells of the bookies and
punters resound:
“I'll lay six-ter-fower the field! Tens the Mar-
tynside crack.”
“I'll take you—in hundreds.” Young Muggins ten
tenners unwound,
And Ikenstein grinned as he crowded the notes
in his sack.
Did Ike know the person who during the night
craivled from under the Stand,
And hurried across to the favorite’s shed with a
pump in his hand ?
They came past the thousand-mile post at a moderate
gait,
The Martynside loafing ahead, with the Avrog
astern.
“Not three miles a minute; he’s making his run
rather late” —
The words fell from Muggins in accentg that told
of concern.
A vulture-nosed creature now walked from his tele-
scope, turned on the crowd,
And bellowed: “ ’Ere, twenties the Martynside! I’m
not the cove to be cowed.”
His howlings had hardly died down when a horrified
groan
Was uttered by Muggins. The Martynside sud-
denly swerved,
And started off earthwards. “The Semibreve wins on
her own,”
An oil-besmeared expert in aeronaut’s goggles
observed ;
“And dam’ near unbacked! What a skinner it means
for the lads in the Ring!
The Mart, licked the ’Breve in a sprint by some
ninety-odd miles in the Spring.”
“Loud hooting,” the morning press wrote on the
following day,
“Broke forth as the conquering Semibreve taxied
in front,
En route for the Stewards’ Enclosure. This painful
display
Was due to the view that a ’plane, which dropped
out of the hunt
When seemingly winning, had done so through hav-
ing its petrol-tank doped.
That punters were wronging the parties suspected
is much to be hoped.”
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


Delivering' a Punch!
Many spectators not conversant with
the art of Boxing are frequently filled
with amazement at the comparative
ease with which one skilled boxer can
“knock out” another. The blow' seems
to travel but a few inches, and the
receiver drops as though shot. It is
just a matter of timing—of science—
of “knowing how.”
I Will Teach
You by Post.
I will let you into the secrets of the game as I
have learned them from the world’s greatest masters
of the gloves. I will show you how to deliver a punch
harder than that of, an untrained man stones heavier
than yourself. I will take you through the science
of Boxing in easy stages, until, under my personal
advice and criticism, you are able to hold your own
in any company.
You ought to write for my illustrated booklet,
“Scientific Boxing in your Home,” which gives fuller
particulars and cost of tuition. Just write your
name and address on this advertisement, and post to
me. Send three penny stamps for postage.
: .
m».
m
We specialise in high-class Box-
ing Gloves and shall be pleased
to supply prices on application.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,
307 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, (Corner Crown Street), SYDNEY,
Your Gar
Deserves
THE BEST
WAKEFIELD
MOTOR
OIL
Use
[ V/JICEFIELD
Regtf.
MOTOR OIL]
BRITISH and BEST.
C.C. Wakefield 8 Co. Ltd.
5 Moore Street, Sydney; 8 London.
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Over the W orl d*
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL 815 POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY
Box 229 Q.P.0.,
MELBOURNP.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNIY.
No Gold
is too
obstinate
for
GREATHEAD’S
MIXTURE
Its wonderful penetrating
powers get right to the seat
of the trouble and destroy the
germs that cause the cold.
Greathead’s is no new-fangled
cure-overnight remedy, but a
reliable household medicine
of 45 years’ standing. It is a
sure cure for Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Sore Throat,
Croup, Quinsy, Fever, Ague,
etc.
GET A BOTTLE
FROM YOUR
GROCER
OR CHEMIST.
Think Well
Over It
and then make up your mind that
there is no longer any need to
suffer from Constipation —lack of
tone, depression. Indigestion, Dys-
pepsia, Morning Sickness, if you
will only use—
GREATOIDS
—the Small but Great Liver Pills;
for these tiny little pills, so easy
to take and so simple and sure in
effect, are prepared from the finest
ingredients by an expert Chemist
with one object, and that is to
tone up the system, remove depres-
sion, and they
Will Cure You.
So whenever you feel a little out
of sorts and run down, just take an
occasional dose.
Obtainable at all Grocers’ and
Chemists’.
Small Size, 1/-; Large (Double the
Quantity), 1/6.
A Well-matured Tobacco at Last 1
“NOSEGAY”
MANUFACTURED BY T. C. WILLIAMS, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.
Most Pipe-smoking Troubles come from Using Tobacco that is too New.
NOSEGAY does not bite the tongue!
NOSEGAY does not affect the nei’ves!
NOSEGAY burns down to the last particle in the pipe!
12/- per lb. 0/- per Jib. 3/- per Jib,
Postage—N.S.W : (Id. for the first lb. and 3d. every additional lb.
Other States: Bd. for the first lb. and 6d. every additional lb.
SAMPLE TINS 1/4, Post Paid.
A. A. MARKS, LTD., 376 George St., Sydney,
Cigar and Tobacco Importers. BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
“Spot” Electric
Irons, 35/-
One trial with a “SPOT” Electric Iron and
you’ll never dream of going back to the old-
fashioned style—gas, spirit, or any other
kind. You attach it to any ordinary
electric-lamp socket, switch on the current,
and it is hot enough to use in a minute.
ft
It is smell-less, smokeless, absolutely clean, perfectly safe, and the
heat can be regulated. It produces a beautifully glossy surface on
starched linen, and, the greatest heat being at the point, it is
quite a boon for ironing tucks, frills and edging on lacework, table-
cloths, etc. The heating device inside the “SPOT” Iron is particu-
larly strong and of very superior construction; in fact, the iron is
guaranteed for three years. Price, including Cord and Fitting, 35/-
Obtainable Electricians and Ironmongers.
Wholesale: —
HOMEWOOD & O’NEILL PTY., LTD.,
Head Offices and Warehouse: 172-176 William
Street, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 1: Somerset Place, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 2: Ferrars Street, South Melbourne.
Sydney Office: 375 George Street.
55
DETRO
PERFECTION MARINE ENGINES
THE 2-H.P. “BANTAM” ENGINE
for installing inside your boat.
SPECIFICATIONS.
Bore 2g, Stroke ‘Zi,
K.P.M. 500 High
tension Ignition.
ft#
m
DIM ENSIONS
OVER ALL.
Length 16in v Width
10in., Height 16in.,
Ik. Weight 401 b.
THE “BANTAM"
MARINE MOTOR
drives your boat
from 7 to 9 miles
an hour. May be
easily operated and reversed without pre-
vious experience of gasoline engines.
Suitable for Canoes, Rowboats, Dinghies, etc.
Ideal for the Week=end Fishing
For particulars of Caille Perfection 2-h.p. Inboard Motor and
Outboard Motors from 2 to 30 h. p., for Benzine or Kerosene fuel,
write direct to the sole agents for Australasia and the Pacific Islands'
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney. 344-6 Swanston Street,
Melbourne. 138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Also at Wellington, N.Z.
Cable Address—“Brosbenson.”


TOBACCO
Farmer's “Victoria
House" Smoking
Mixture; a medium,
long-burning blend
of rare tobac cos ,
packed exclusively
for Farmer's.
lb. tin 3/-
•g—lb. tin 6/-
11b. 11/9
FAK7VCER2S
'Dko Piovo roc Tnen-
Nee*lS
fj A-t / \s ft
CHERODTS
Alhamhra Manila
Cheroots, made in
Manila from the
highest grade leaf.
Very special value.
Small size, 25/- per
100; Heavy Weights,
32/6 per 100; Extra
Heavy W eights,
hox of 50 ... 22/6
CRA
c
FARTVfERS
C%<? Sigco /Stiffen.
n
THE PASSING
SHOW
On August 4, at the Centreway, Mel-
bourne, the House of Shave opened
their wonderful Show of the New
Spring Fashions. You are cordially
invited to attend.
SHAVE
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Centreway,
Alelbourne.
%unityfair *
ianTLIK (BIKUytBa
—double tipped for double
wear —the guarantee with
every pair stipulating that
if finger tips wear through
before gloves are washed,
or have given reasonable
wear, gloves Will be re-
placed free of charge.
Your draper
should have
Vanity Fair
Silk Gloves.
V.F. 23 -
r
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust-Proof
Corsets
The Gaud Mayor’s farewell to his favorite
G.-G. was the important episode of Friday
night. The Town Hall rose on its hind
legs and pranced. Every bit of frill was
flaunted, every light turned on. The main
ball had become a spring orchard. In the
middle of the room was a healthy, six-year-
old almond-tree in full bloom. Petals of
plum-blossom were scattered everywhere.
The corridors, upper rooms and lounges
were decorated in the same luxurious and
expensive way. Supper was laid in the
Council Room. All along the tables violets
grew in mossy beds and daffodils bloomed
along the ledges.
The G.-G. made a blossomy speech. lie
wished Melba was there, he said, to trill a
Spring song to suit the atmosphere. Switch-
ing on to the wealth of garden that Mel-
bourne tends in its parks and roads, he be-
came so engrossed in the subject of floricul-
ture and arboriculture that he omitted the
usual bonds-of-Empire platitudes.
Lady Helen, heavily be-diamonded, sparkled
like a garden after rain. Mayoress Stein got
her glitter from jet. The Irvine lady wore
a collaboration of colored tulles and silks.
Mrs. Pearce was in glittering black.
Mrs. Russell Gabb, in black and silver, came
on from a children’s dance. Mrs. Keating,
in green and gold, was fresh from Prince
parties in Tassy. Mrs. Carty Salmon blew
in from Sydney. Adelaide’s Mayoress, Mrs.
Moulden, dazzled in white satin fixtures
with billowy tulle over all. Every woman
put on her most priceless Prince gown, and
the frocking was gorgeous.
The party lasted long after conventional
reception-time, and at midnight the
youngsters clamored for a jazz. The car-
pets were rolled up in the hall while the
orchestra was at supper. The feeding musi-
cians, getting wind of the scheme to keep
them up late, folded their cornets and
silently stole away. The dancing party
then rushed their motors and went on to the
Law Students’ Ball, the attendants thank-
fully shooing the last of them out of the
side doors. There are still a few queer
people in the world who would rather go
to bed than jazz.
Before the Renown set out on its voyage
one of Queen Mary’s friends worked a
motto for the young man’s cabin. “Do
right, and fear no man,” it read. One of
Edward’s pals remembered something he’d
heard .and added the rider: “Don’t write,
and fear no woman.”
Being picked for the job of acting as host
to Royalty has its own little worries. It
was originally arranged that when Edward
P. went to Launceston (Tas.) he would be
entertained by Henry Reed at Mount Plea-
sant. The Reeds had got busy and spent a
good deal of cash preparing for it, and then
found that the Prince would put the night in
at a hotel. Somebody says the reason was
that the prospective hosts, unaware of the
etiquette of the thing-, had been issuing invi-
tations for a private dance on the sacred
evening.
Gaud Mayor Aikman says he has been per-
suaded by a majority of the City Council to
leave himself in their hands for nomination
for a second term. Swanson, the builder,
who is supported by Cabena and his party,
is the rival. Aikman is being reminded of
his declaration last year that a 12-month
term was the fair thing, so that the job
might go round among eligibles. But, of
course, the circumstances are different now,
and a politician may be allowed some elas-
ticity of thought—surely.
Anybody who talks now of shifting the
Town Hall will be shot on sight. At the
civic send-off to him Munro Ferguson de-
clared that he who had eyes to see could read
the history of the “tragic and glorious” war
and of the patriotic endeavor associated
with it on the walls of the building, and he
who had a sharp ear could still catch the
echoes of the voices that spake encourage-
ment in dark days and finally joined in the
shout of joy when news of the Armistice
arrived. After that, the coffee-palace and
the Athenaeum next door will have to go if
the Town Hall is not big enough. There
will be no shifting of the civic centre.
Baronet Genille Cave-Brown-Cave, who
was ordained recently in England and made
curate of St. Andrew’s, Walthamstow, is of
the same family as the Cave-Brown-Cave,
M.A., who was formerly chief clerk in the
Premier’s office here. Genille had an
innings in the U.S.A. as ranger, big-game
stalker and glory-grinder. Then he gave
Uncle Sam a hand to take the sauce out of
Spain, butted in on the Boxer rebellion, and
finally had a bang at the Hun with the Royal
Artillery. His late Melbourne relative was
first an Anglican parson. Then he became
harassed with a doubt, and threw up his
job. While he worked as a clerk he was a
Plymouth bi’other. Finally, when a sep-
tuagenarian, he worked back to his starting-
place, and wound up as an Anglican curate
at Richmond. In every capacity he was a
gentleman.
Mining-man Tewkesbui’y has a present
for the Prince. Two little tubes of alluvial
gold rest in a cigarette case with the remark
engraved that gold such as this made Aus-
tralia. There is also a memo of the total
treasure taken out of Australian earth. The
fascinating dust in the tubes was some
Tewkesbury mined personally. He has, how-
ever, shed all his dredging interests, and does
not own even a cog. Sometimes he thinks
he wouldn’t be such a sick man if he had
an excuse for mucking about in old dun-
garees.
Every woman who knocks about on boats
has her pet scheme for getting over the
laundry difficulty. “I never bother about an
electric iron,” says one plump matron. “I
wear strips of lace for blouses and just rinse
them out; then I sit on them till they are
dry.” But how long must a thin, cold woman
sit on her laundry before it hatches out?
Mrs. Arnold Westley, who was in hos-
pital during the Prince frivols, is beginning
to take her frocks out of tissue paper at the
Cliveden flat. Just after her own severe
operation her young sons fell ill. The
Westleys’ country house was turned into
a hospital, and one of the frockiest women
in Melbouxme was in nurse’s garb for weeks.
Mrs. Buesst and grand-daughter Isolde
had a great farewell at the wharf. They
go through Japan and America to England
and then cross to the Continent. Musical
Melbourne rolled xxp laden with farewell
bouquets, and made a mess of the wharf
with colored-paper streamers.
The Law Students’ dance in the Gregory
Hall, St. Kilda, was not nearly as serious
as you might suppose. There were severe
judicial noses topped by severe glasses; but
they belonged to future K.C.’s and Judges
with very fx-ivolous feet, and Melbourne
hasn’t seen many better exhibitions of jazz-
ing. Mayoress Stein came on from her own
pai’ty. The French Consul and his wife
were there. Major Locke, D. 5.0., bagged
every dance. (This is a triumph when there
are men-wallflowers.) Law Prof. Harrison
Moore (he is the young senior professor of
the University) came with his wife; and
Justice and Mrs. Schutt saw the revel out.
This is May and Mina Moore’s impression
of James Martin, who has just been elected
Vic. President of the Returned Soldiers.
He was a sergeant in
the 37th Battalion
when he got his
knock at Messines
Ridge and was in-
valided home. Then
he started buzzing on
behalf of the Red
Ci’oss, and helped in
the special effort
that netted £300,000.
That, howevei*, is
only one example
of his energy. He
had a big hand
in the birth of the
C.T.A. Choral Party
which raised £6400
.for the war funds.
Likewise he helped
to organise the
Women’s Hospital Ball that captui-ed £6BOO
during the Prince’s visit. Nowadays he is
secretary of the State Orchestra movement,
looks after other musical activities, and
keeps a directing eye on a local printery.
In his spare time he is a lively performer
at cricket, baseball and tennis—one at a
time.
Two decorative and decorated war nurses
have settled down again to civilian life in
Melbourne. Sisters Jobson and Rosenthal
have taken over St. Luke’s Hospital in
Queen’s-road, and changed the name to
Vimy House. Sister Cumming, another
brave woman of the wai‘, has placidly set
to work in Block-place, where she puts a
crimp in the sassiety woman’s hair.
Drysdale Brown, ex-Attoi-ney-General and
ex-Minister for Mines, who was such a thoi’n
in the side of departmental officers when he
was in power, seems sure of the job of Chair-
man of Committees in the Plush House now
that Sachse has gone.
The Uni. is asking for £lOO,OOO from citi-
zens to supplement the £175,000 recently
provided by the State from loan money.
Most of it is badly wanted for endowments.
But as Y. Emma is raking in a similar
amount for a new building, it looks is if
some very skilful organisation will be re-
quired to prevent a disappointment as keen
as that which was felt when Arcligaiters
Clarke’s appeal for coin to build St. Paul’s
towers fell flat.
Herewith J. R. Eldershaw, the water-
colox-ist, who has been showing some of his
paintings in the
Decoration Gallery,
Collins-street. A
while ago he was
commissioned b y
four Sydney art-
collectors t o paint
for them; this en-
abled him to quit his
Sydney H arbor
Trust job and devote
his time to art. The
N. S. Wales Gal-
lery bought some of
his stuff in 1919,
and that gave him a
further lift up the
ladder. Recently he
felt well enough
satisfied with his
climb to marry a
budding Tasmanian sculptress, Dorothy
Barclay. He has been in the Apple Island
recently, and means to divide his time
between there and Sydney.
Adelaide films the week: —
Viee-llegality and a big audience heard the South
Aus. Orchestra make its debut on Saturday after-
noon. This is the realisation of an ambitious scheme
of Dr. Harold Davies, who has enlisted the leading
musicians and made successful appeals for funds.
Pianist Brewster Jones, moving across to Mel-
bourne shortly, is to conduct the Lady Northcote
Orchestra for a while. He is a clever young musician
whose excellent grooming would have grieved the
dusty Bohemians of long ago.
A select crowd turned up at the Lady Oolton
Hall on Thursday, when Labiche’s comedy “La
Gramtnaire’’ was staged. It is only necessary to
look critical at these shows.
The Peace Loan is our latest excitement. The
Women War Workers’ organisations have formed
a skirted committee' to help the men on, and are
appointing committees in every centre throughout
the State. Mrs. Moulden (Mayoress) is in the chair,
and Miss Ethelwyn Robin is organising secretary.
The wealthy Lady Weigall isn’t going to save
much money in S. Aus. She has now made it pos-
sible for the nurse on the Soldiers’ Settlement to do
her long rounds in a comfortable trap made to hold
a stretcher if necessary. She had mostly managed
on Shanks’s mare before this gift came.
Fair-haired Margaret Symon, the clever daughter
of a distinguished father, has been given an honor-
ary commission by the S. Aus. Government to inquire
into the appointment of women justices and so on
in Britain and Canada. Margaret is a J.P. in
her own right here.
A decade ago the Hunt Club Ball was one of the
most important of the season, and after many years
the Club has decided to revive the frivol. A sit-
down supper and other old-time glories are men-
tioned, and girls certain of invitations are saving
their freshest frocks. Many of the old Hunt Club
members are taking early-morning runs, as it means
either the old figure or a new coat.
The young hopes of three well-known families
entertained about 200 flappers and their escorts
at a very cheery dance in the Osborne Hall on
Friday. The young hosts, Roy Pridmore, Ransome
Mortlock and Ron Verco, ran the successful party on
their own.
On Wednesday Lady Weigall entertained the
Mayoral pair and a large number of the citizens
who helped to make the Prince’s visit run smoothly.
Fifty of the Cheer-Up girls were present in their
becoming uniform, and a mob of Uni. students
helped to keep things moving and wait on the
girls at supper. Her Ex., wearing a lovely grey
garment and black pearls, entertained the crowd
with some, moving pictures of the Prince, mostly
taken in Government House grounds by one of the
house party.
The following evening their Exes, gave a small
dance to which all the Naicest lads and lasses of
the village were bidden. The floor proved excellent
this time, there were plenty of men, and the music
got into your bones. His Ex. enlivened the pro-
ceedings by playing strenuously with the jazz band :
but his wife has a flair for the job that he can’t
equal.
When C. F. Wreford, manager of the Bank of
Adelaide’s Melbourne branch, returns to run head
office, vice the veteran John Shiels, whose death
occurred this week —W. J. Coffey will replace him.
It will be almost like going home, for Coffey was
in the City of Melbourne Bank till its wind-up in
1896. Since he has been in Aoelaide he has been
secretary of the Associated Banks and prominent in
University work.
Adelaide Children’s Hospital has sold its Rundle-
street shop property; the old hardware firm, Crooks
and Brooker, who have long occupied it, bought it
at auction for £32,000. The Commercial Travellers
tried on the same day to sell their Club, on North
Terrace, but nobody opened his mouth wide enough.
A new Club is, nevertheless, to be built on a site in
Gawler Place, handier to the big warehouses.
Clarence Kitchin was married on July 27
to her returned soldier, B. J. Flannery, late
of the 23rd Battalion. The pair were born
in the same parish, baptised at the same
font, and practically grew up together.
Some lynx-eyed wedding guest noticed that
they were also married by the same priest.
It happened at St. Joseph’s, South Yarra.
Another of the W. J. T. Clarke fleet of
daughters is embarking upon the sea of
matrimony. The tall brunette Roma his
made Lt.-Col. Eric Harrison happy. His
family roof-tree is at Tiverton, Devon,
where his mother dwells in Exleigh House.
Personally he is one of the Commonwealth’s
artillery experts.
Pianiste Jessie Masson has max’ried John
Ilartpence, now of New York, formerly man-
ager of the Pianola Co. in Melbourne. John
is still interested in his old love, the mechan-
ical player; but that’s understood not to
be a ground for divorce.
Mayoress Stein had her say about the
Peace Loan at the Town Hall a few after-
noons ago. She was backed up by Major
Sexton, and a central committee was
formed which pledged itself to do its—well,
its very best to rake in money. Mrs. Starke
proposed and Mrs. Whitham seconded the
one and only resolution put to the party as
it sipped and munched.
Tom Roberts has gone to Sydney. The
collection he brought from England has been
much reduced by Melbourne buyers; but
he has been working amid Victorian and
Tasmanian scenery, so there is some fine
new stuff. In Melbourne he did a portrait
or two. One, a. beautiful bit of work, is a
picture of Dr. Maloney’s handsome daughter.
May Butler George (artist) and Fredis-
wyde Hunter-Watts (actress) had a great
time oyer the salad at the Denat a few
lunch-times ago, discovering mutual friends
in England, France and Italy. It all ended
up with a studio appointment, and Miss
Butler George is at work now on a picture
of Miss Hunter-Watts.
Mrs. Pearce and daughter Marjorie looked
in at May Butler George’s exhibition last
week and brushed up their reminiscences of
their great tour of the battlefields. When
all their adjectives were exhausted they
whisked the little lady off to Parliament
House for tea.
Authoress Minnie Bruce, who married
cousin Captain Bruce, has just landed back
in Australia. She will settle in her native
Gippsland and show the big timber to her
two young sons. The boys are good Irish-
men, born in Cork. Captain Bruce is busy
on some war articles for the Argus.
Emilie Dyason-Scott and Noraff Clench
Streeton made music together with piano
and violin at the Lyceum Club on Friday
evening. Just an informal affair, to pay
for a brand-new grand piano, the Club’s
latest acquisition.
All the Bailleau clan ’cept the flapper por-
tion, which is disporting itself at Kosciusko
at the moment, turned out for the Herbert
Fryer recital at the Assembly Hffll. Weigalls,
McDonalds, Symes and other lights shone on
the same occasion, and the verdict was that
“English music as given by Fryer is good
enough for us.”
Miss Sheehan’s party in honor of pianist
Natalie Dawson was a great success. It
happened at the Oriental Hotel, where tea
was served, and Walter Kirby sang and
Florrie Gordon, a budding contralto, made
a hit. Natalie’s benefit is due at the
Athenaeum on August 18.
To facilitate the long-overdue reforms at
the receiving depot for neglected children
at Royal Park, Matron E. L. Riordan has
gone over to the Labor Department as a
factory inspectress, and Sister E. M. M.
Knight has come in as chief nurse under
new medical superintendent J. K. Adey.
And now it is hoped the critics will be able
to take a rest for a while.
The Mermaid production of Sheridan’s
“Critic” lured Lieut.-Governor Irvine and
party to the Melba Hall last Thursday, along
with Henry Gyles Turner and other classic
Intellects. The audience reverently rose
when the Iceberg glode in with the star of
his knighthood on his chest. His feminine
supporters swam behind in tea-cosy wraps.
The show gave Arthur Goodsall a chance as
a dress-designer. He straight-jacketed Rose
Quong in a queer blue-green bodice, but the
rest of the garment panniered out to a rect-
angle that made her look like a problem from
the second book of Euclid. Mrs. Apperly
was equally spacious in daffodil, and Miss
Florence Campbell wore an immense black
hat capable of accommodating the worst
case of swelled head. Miss Izobel Duncan’s
gown was a bit of 18th-century dressmaking
whereof many sad-raggers present would be
glad to have the recipe.
The Universal Film people, who are the
latest American benefactors to bring capital
by the thousand (dollars) to Australia, have
designed a perfectly-wonderful bill- and
letter-head. It is the map of Australia,
supported by two soaring eagle wings. The
beak and body and talons of the bird are
so deeply embedded in our country as to be
completely hidden from view.
Gordon Carter, who was sec. of the Public
Servants’ Union before it broke into frag-
ments, lately received a remarkable testi-
monial signed by the permanent heads of
12 Government departments. The docu-
ment, which was handed over by Premier
Lawson, mentions among Carter’s seiwiees
the assistance he gave in enlisting 6750
Government servants for the war-front.


CHUNDER LOO SHEARING FOR PRINCE.
\
f\
if// A
m
fj
X
£
6
l r *
■*r?
)
>iO
>
h\
m
///
'Sffl
L
• "/
1
0
/
/ f
(
N.
\
55$
IS>
-v
tft
m
<2
$
f
JSSS
*
>a
m
'f7
ss
>vy\
J-
&
Y
A
r
m
P
W’
s
/
A
A
fc t
Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Takes the jumbucks’
Wool off, too.
“Tar, boy! Tar!
Skip lively there!’’
Bump! A stud ram
Butts the Bear.
Down he falls
And lies at peace
On Australia’s
Golden Fleece.
H.R.H. exclaims,
“Good~o!
“Here’s a jolly
COBRA show!”


Charles
Heidsecks
Vintage 1911 {
CMflMffi
NE PLUS ULTRA
1
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
“Baby Deserves the Best”
North Pole Pram Tyring, with the patented
pin fastening, costs no more than the
ordinary kind.
It is easy to fit, and does not roll off.
Perambulator Dealers, Cycle Agents and
Storekeepers are recommending it.
Specify North Pole for your Pram.
WHOLESALE ONLY.
Bennett & Barkell Limited,
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
YOU Can Enjoy Perfect Health.
zsd
ASTHMA, INFLUENZA, HAY FEVER and ALL
BRONCHIAL TROUBLES are miraculously cured
by the aid of the
Mean’ Aural Nebulizer
which aims directly at the seat of the trouble,
affords instant relief, and very quickly effects
the absolute and lasting CURE.
Every day we receive fresh evidence of the
wonderful curative powers of the Nebulizer
from happy people who have benefited from its
usage. Call and witness a demonstration, or
write for particulars of our ABSOLUTE
GUARANTEE to refund your money in full
if you are not perfectly satisfied.
We would not dare make this statement
were we not trading on strictly honest lines,
and thoroughly convinced of the exceptional
qualities of this treatment.
The Cuarantee Proves its Bonafides.
The Mears Company (Inc.), Dept. 12,
T. M. ROY, Representative,
Bernard’s Building, 387 George Street, Sydney
4ZC,
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
From
Daveid jones
[?]
SYDNEY
Poor old Tom Slattery, who years and
years ago dropped out of the political life
whose strings he knew so well how to pull
in big George Dibbs’s day, was twice mar-
ried. On the death of his first wife Tom got
a Papal dispensation to marry his dead wife’s
sister, the lady who survives him. J. G.
O’Connor, master printer and publisher, and
once an M.L.A., was their brother.
Society’s skirts were fluttered last week
by the wedding of Dr. Leslie Dunlop and
pretty, fair-haired Nina Massie, the willowy
and only daughter of the Hugh Massies of
Point Piper. Leslie’s dad was medicine-man
Albert, of Ipswich (Q.), and his own brass
plate fronts Macquarie-street. Up till a
short time ago he was superintendent of
Sydney Hospital, and before that he was of
the A.A.M.C., in which service he was
wounded. St. John’s, Darlinghurst, was the
scene of the soldering of the two hearts,
and Canon Bellingham, with a full choir of
boy voices, made a very effective job of it.
Nina’s dress was of soft white satin, and
carried no ornamentation but a silver girdle
and a lightweight train. The tulle veil that
enveloped the fair head as mistily as the
mountain haze drifts about Jamieson Valley
was ballasted at each corner by small clus-
ters of orange blossom; and all the girls of
Nina’s set are still gasping with envy over
the string of pearls her bridegroom gave her.
Susie Campbell and Belle Garland brides-
maided in shot taffeta frocks and head-
dresses of sequined net that looked like the
high crowns on an Ikon. Armsful of pink
stock finished off their sweetness. Leslie’s
mother came to the wedding in black geor-
gette, and sister Mabel wore grey. Later
Mr. and Mrs. Massie extended the cordial
eye to a sleekly-dressed multitude at the
Australia.
Mrs. Hugh Dixson looks out at a Sydney
made happier and brighter by the family’s
good works. Last Thursday another well-
equipped ward was opened at the Crown-
street Women’s Hospital—an open-air pavil-
ion which means that every year 100 more
Australians may have
a smoother passage
entering their native
land than would be
possible if the Hugh
Dixsons hadn’t gen-
erously footed the
bills for the ward.
Hugh Hixson, look-
ing more like a
kindly Quaker than
ever, was present
with daughter Mrs.
Eaton, who turned
the gold key in the
lock. Mother, who
was to have done it,
had to stay at home
to nurse a cold.
Judge Backhouse
brought Mrs. Back-
house, his rosy cheeks and his white side-
levers to rejoice over the hospital’s good
luck. The medical Ludowicis, Mrs. Earp
and Mrs. Donald Fraser were amongst the
group of applauders. The girls of the
entertainment committee provided tea.
Still the McCormack concerts go on, and
three times a week the Town Hall is packed
with souls anxious to obtain a Turkish
bath of sentiment and a refreshing shower
of melody. John, at length free from his
laryngitis, let his voice out in great style
on Saturday. Tenors as a rule are not satis-
fying in oratorio, but John gives religious
music every grain of its spiritual signifi-
cance, till sometimes one glimpses from
under the elbow of the large man the small
Irish boy who is about to make his first
Holy Communion. Mrs. Mac. changed her
ermine coat on Saturday for an affair of
rich brocade. All kiddies adore John, and
after the final note the Markses’ hopeful
escorted Gwen around to her dad. No
grown-ups ventured into the artists’ room;
John hates to be the swanky artist gulping
down compliments.
The happiest party the McCormacks have
had given to them was the dinner arranged
at Lewisham bj- Mother Rectress, but the
one that John is most looking forward to he
is himself giving to the wounded boys at
Randwick—the day wasn’t quife decided when
The Bulletin was pinning bn her last kiss
cnrl. John has been wanting to sing to
those, boys ever since he heard about the
C mr ei '^ ness ie Pluck of the “stumpies.”
“Vyhat about the blinded boys?” he asked.
“Couldn’t they come, too? I’d like to sing
to them all.”
h rom Brisbane with her best hat on: —
The weather has been very kind to the Prince.
Clear, sunshiny days have floated out of the east
ever since he arrived, and the dust and heat of the
streets has not discouraged the ardent souls who
are willing to wait for hours at a stretch on the
off-chance of being able to wave their hats and
hooray.
Ihe town looked rather like a disturbed anthill
on Tuesday, when the young man arrived. Mum,
dad and the kids poured in from every suburb, and
by 9 o’clock only a fly could have found a com-
fortable perch on trams or trains. Hundreds of
loyalists walked into town, and by trampling earn-
estly on the toes of earlier birds got a front line
position and saw everything.
After greeting Prince Teddy at the Central
Station, officialdom whirled him off to Albert-
square, where City Fathers, naval and military
johnnies and 3000 mere humans greeted him with
loud yells of approval. The same old speeches were
made, and then Prince and officials and Anzacs
toured the city. At the G.P.O. wives and mothers
of deceased soldiers, invalid sailors and soldiers and
army nurses had a stand. They gave rousing
cheers for the smiling visitor, and one cheer more
for the khaki line which followed.
After the parade, the Prince spoke to four Y.C.
winners. Two, Corporal Gordon and Pte. Dalziel,
are Bananalanders who won the Cross in the late
war. The others were veterans. One was Sergt.-
Major Drinnan, 85, whose bit of bronze was won
‘‘before Delhi,” and who is “Irish and proud of it.”
His befrogged blue tunic and round pillbox hat
seemed to fascinate our brown soldier boys' The
other old hero was W.-O. Davis Richardson, a
Zulu War veteran.
The Vice-Regal Ball on Tuesday night was one
of the cheeriest and most informal affairs—after
the lancers. The Prince and his staff arrived at
9 p.m., and were met by the Lieut.-Governor and
Mrs. Lennon. A few presentations were made, and
then the lancers were danced, Eva Lennon being
young Windsor’s partner. It was not a boisterous
set, as the performers included the Lieut.-Governor,
Judge Chubb and the State Commandant, Brig.-Gen.
Irving, who pranced with the self-consciousness of
a nervous small boy forced to recite in public. The
others were Mr. and Mrs. Bill Gillies, Mrs. J. A.
Fihelly, Mrs. North (Judge Chubb’s daughter), Mrs.
Irving, and the Mayor and Mayoress (Aid. and Mrs.
Maxwell).
Once the official rite was over everything was
plain sailing for the boy Prince. “We want him to
enjoy himself,” said the committee magnanimously,
and with heroic self : denial cut out an “official”
supper, arranged a delightful table all smothered
with roses and violets for young Edward, and ran
the supper on buffet lines. So H.R.H. danced
and supped when and with whom he pleased. His
partners were Eileen Bell, who looked handsome in
draped black satin, with touches of gold on the
bodice; Jessie MeWilliam (Tom McWilliam’s chick),
a pretty, unaffected girl who dances well, and was
upholstered in maize georgette; Berenice Garrick,
Nell Tritton and Mrs. F. Glynn Connolly. Eileen
Bell was chosen several times, and Jessie MeWilliam
twice.
The ball was held in the new State Savings Bank,
and the ballroom was very slightly decorated. A
blacks’ gunyah, in a miniature bush scene of palms,
grass-trees and staghorns, occupied a corner near
the lift. A black loyalist named Jacky was the
artist. A trail of asparagus around the walls and
curtains and a basket of sweet-peas at each window
completed the decorations. Every woman present
breathed a blessing on the head of the man who
arranged the electric lights. They were pale pink,
and would have cast a seductive glow on the carven
features of a Chinese idol.
The two great staircases leading from George and
Elizabeth streets were bowered in whole palm-trees
and lined with flags. The loyalty of various worthy
old gentlemen was severely tried when they discovered
the heir to the Throne perched on the steps with a
serene damsel, for whom (shades of Queen Victoria!)
he politely lit a cigarette.
The visitor managed to go to the races on Tuesday
afternoon and watched the Cup run—he was in the
Crow’s Nest —after which he presented the trophy to
owner J. B. Shannon.
A local soldier was much embarrassed at the races
by a section of the crowd, that mistook him for the
Prince and cheered him heartily, only to desert
him with vituperation when the real Mackay hove
in sight. The victim has a truly English complexion
and was in Flying Corps uniform.
Some considerate soul cut out speeches at the
official luncheon at the Show, so Wales had his
snack in peace. He wandered all round the exhibits,
and was presented with a bag at the Soldiers’ Handi-
crafts section. It’s for Princess Mary, and her
brother promised faithfully to deliver it. But you
know what brothers are!
A citizens’ reception at the New Farm Park occu-
pied most of Wednesday afternoon. After the Mayor
and Mayoress had given H.R.H. tea, his bodyguard
walked him rapidly all round the ring, to be
nearly deafened by cheers, patted on the back and
mobbed by enthusiasts. The famous smile had quite
vanished when he at last escaped to the river, to
go on to Shafston House by motor-launch.
Shafston House, which is a home for permanently
disabled soldiers, is the old McConnel home, and is
a beautiful place. There it was just one Digger
yarning with another.
After a private dinner at Parliament House on Wed-
nesday, at which the Coochin Bells were his guests, the
Prince went on to the dance hostessed by 50 Brisbane
girls. Una Bell, Jean Martin; Jean Darvall, Marjorie
Bell and Sybil Ir ving received him. He danced with
Eileen Bell, Jean Martin and Berenice Garrick, and
then took refuge in the lounge. Some marvellous
frocks were worn, and a few that were merely
startling. Pretty Vera Cotton sported a rudimentary
crinoline inside her frock of silver gauze. Mrs.
Glynn Connolly’s dancing frock of white satin was
covered with long silk fringe in russet shades. Mrs.
William Collins looked handsome in rose and silver
brocade, and Mrs. Ned Tully wore amethyst
charmeuse. Palms and poinsettia decorated the ball-
room.
One beauty cut most of her local partners at the
State Ball, and gave the dances to members of the
Prince’s staff.
Edward was busy on Thursday. He began with a
levfie and investiture at Parliament House, and learned
and unlearned societies loaded addresses on him.
Then he was hurried off for more addresses at South
Brisbane, and afterwards taken to Albert Square
to lay a foundation-stone for the new Town Hall.
Doris Gillies and her sister gave a river picnic
in the Lapwing on Thursday night to view the
illuminations. The cruiser Brisbane was all out-
lined with electrics, and the three destroyers glowed
like picture-theatres. The aeroplanes buzzed about
letting off Verey lights, the Brisbane’s searchlight
keeping a kindly eye on them the while.
Olive Dalzell, who is in Brisbane for the week,
gave a dinner party at Lennon’s the other night.
Twenty-four guests gathered at tables decked with
rose-pink sweet-peas and tulle, and with rose-pink
balloons swaying overhead.
Vera Cotton also gave a dinner party in honor
of brother Victor, whose engagement to Miss Nesbit
is just announced.
Here’s Judith Fletcher’s picture of Rose-
mary Rees, who left her home-town, Auck-
land (M.L.), to venture into stagecraft in
London. Rosemary, who has the jolliest
smile and the happiest manner in the world,
found the theatrical sea fairly easy to navi-
gate, and made intermittent descents upon
Australia, once with Matheson Lang in “The
Third Floor Back.”
At the beginning of
the war she was
playing lead i n
Vachell’s “Search-
lights” ; th en the
war trouble thick-
ened, Overseas sol-
diers thronged into
England, and Rose-
mary took in hand
the organisation of
entertainments for
the M.L. cont i n-
gents. One of her
happiest memories
is her tour with
Julius Knight in
“T he Mollus c,”
which they put on
for the Australian
and M.L. boys in the camps at Codford and
at the Aldwych, London. Julius proved
himself a perfect treasure; he nailed up
curtains, moved pianos, helped to fix foot-
lights. Then Miss Rees went to France as
lead for the Lena Ashwell Dramatic Co.
and had appreciative audiences of Aussies
and others—she and her little band had a
salvage camp for theatres. In the intervals
Rosemary has written various one-act
plays; her latest, “Uncle Bill,” has had a
good run in London, and is still going strong-
in the Provinces. Of all her curtain-raisers
“Her Dearest Friend,” published by Samuel
French, is most beloved of the amateur; and
at the present time Rosemary is drawing
a comfortable income from a Yankee theat-
rical magriate for a 20-minute one-acter
called “Will You Walk Into My Parlor?”
Professor Wilson isn’t having all the
knuckle-bones flung on his mat. Last week
Mrs. and the Misses had a few farewell
snacks. The women’s societies connected
with the Uni. were responsible for the lun-
cheon in Farmer’s smoke-room given with
a basket of violets and snowdrops to Mrs.
Wilson. All the names of the women who
lead movements and make speeches were on
the list, and Mrs. H. C. Barff kept an eye
over all.
On Friday all the best furs of Sydney took
the Stanway House lift to the Women’s
Club, where a tea-leaf party had been
arranged by Mrs. Barff and Mrs. Edgeworth
David. Dame Margaret, bringing with her
Mrs. Frank Lamb, came fo this party in
honor of Mrs. Wilson and the girls. ' All
Sydney’s near-peerage and profiteerage
looked in; the women doctors snatched an
hour off; Church and State, Arts and
Sciences sent its missus in her best end-of-
the-season millinery; and wattle and wild
flowers breathed Australia through all the
comfortable rooms.
Dorothy, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
W. E. Shaw, has engaged herself to Bishop
Mazel, of the Liberal Catholic Church,
established in Sydney two years ago by
Bishop Wedgewood, who came from Eng-
land for the purpose. Bridegroom-elect
hails from Holland, and is there the Hon
Julian Adrian Mazel. He had lived for
some time in Java before bringing his
attractive millinery this way. Miss Shaw
has been taking medicine for a couple of
years at Sydney Uni.
Stage-beauty Tien Hogue had to cancel
her passage to America at the last moment.
Her father, who was lying seriously ill at
Mosman when the vessel sailed, lingered on
for a fortnight and died on Monday.
Vera Cree, the Sydney singing-girl whose
contralto notes gained her a two years’
scholarship at the London College of Music,
has won a third year, to which the delighted
Board added yet another; so good friends
in the home-town lately put their heads
together to raise a cheque to keep Vera’s
pocket fortified against H.C.L. The result
was a well-attended and well-frocked dance
at Sargent’s. It was just too soon to hear
about Vera’s successful first appearance at
the Queen’s Hall.
The Ladies’. Fencing Club has had its second
annual flutter to decide the championship of
Australia, surrounding the main struggle
with mere male fantastics of sabre and foil.
Instructor Stuart (who has taught his art
in the British army and the navy, and is
taking old-pupil Commander Allison in hand
once more) looked like Mephisto making his
leap, so catapultic was the spring of his
lean figure in close-fitting black from chin
to heel. W. A. Holman, in white duck,
slim and agile as a cat and absurdly young-
looking to be the father of a Portia wh%se
pretty hair is now worn tied back, was
another who handled the weapon of old
Romance “like a chivalrous knight.” Any-
way, kindly Sir Walter, who was present
with his velvet-wrapped lady, said so. The
championship was played off by Edith and
Frances Gillespie, who live at Warrawee.
Frances, who came off winner and now holds
the cup previously held by Kathleen Meek,
is a pretty, soft-skinned, fair flapper, who
wears her neat black fencing togs with the
air of a gallant boy; little sister Edith
exudes blushing girlhood once she takes off
the mask.
Padre Bradley, of Muswellbrook, was
called in to marry Katie McMillan to
Leslie McMaster, of Binnia Downs, Coolah,
at St. Stephen’s Church one evening last
week. Satin and lace and tulle and orange
buds enwrapped the bride. Doris McMillan
and Kitty McMaster left their flocks in the
fold while they shepherdessed the bride in
primrose taffeta frocks puffing into floral
panniers, their black lace hats finishing in
lace streamers, their black crocks abloom
with daffodils. Bride’s aunt, Mrs. G. W.
Eaton, of Pennant Hills, entertained the
guelsts at Petty’s.
Josie Westaway’s marriage in India re-
calls that every girl who went north with
the Freddie Shipmans, having no previous
attachment, came back home with at least
an engagement ring. Josie is the second to
actually bring the husband with her. The
first was Hilda Felstead, Melbourne’s clever
monologue girl, who married a Captain
Flanders and now lives happily ever after
in Bombay.
Doris Pitt has been carving her name on
the records of Kosciusko by ski-ing and
clambering to the snowy peak and back to
the hotel in 11 hours 15 minutes, thus break-
ing Margaret Allen’s record of last year by
30 minutes. She was bodyguarded by
brother Arthur, Cam. McFadyen and R. M.
Scott. In the evening the hotel put on
several layers of festive food in honor of
the event, and Dame Margaret and Sir
Walter and as many of the Alpine Club as
possible were there to congratulate the
Queen of the Snow Peaks on her derring-do.
Sir Walter threw soft speeches at Doris,
and her brother Arthur in turn threw the
sweet word on to the supporting party of
Clubbers who had waited at Betts’s Camp
to provide grilled chops and hot coffee to
the heroine and her guard. The dinner
was digested with jazz, and Doris Pitt, who
had got out of her woollies and in,to cream
georgette for the celebration, took her share
in the game.
The Women Painters have decided to put
their ball in . the twopenny colored class.
Fancy sets are now in the making, and a
prize of three guineas is to go to the best-
carried-out set and one guinea to the most
original. Other prize-winners will be given
pictures. Mrs. F. W. Parsons is president
of the committee, and Mrs. Ellis St. John
and Miss Will Slade are the secretaries.
Among Other quaint and picturesque crea-
tions that a Melbourne fashion-builder
brought to his show in Sydney last week
is an early Victorian model in black taf-
feta, flounced and billowy as to skirt, the
rounded decolletage slipping well off the
shoulders, outlined by a fichu of soft lace
meeting in a knot of the most exquisite tur-
quoise-blue velvet ribbon, the ends of which
fall to the hem of the skirt, beneath which
blapk ninon pantalettes wink coquettishly.
Another striking model is a one-piece in
black, the skirt from the knees downward
being of the heavy macrame-like silk knit-
ting or crocheting that is the newest word,
the short sleeves and the square neck being
of the same handsome weave; while the
small in-between spaces are of crgpe de
Chine.


hardy brothers ltd
JEWEIIERS
Gentlemen’s Toilet Requisites
A large selection of Gentlemen’s Toilet Requisites
in Silver, Ebony and Ivory is always available.
Ebony Brush Set, in Leather Case, contains Two
Hair Brushes, Cloth Brush and Comb,
£4 10 0
Pair Plain Silver Military Brushes, fine
quality' Bristles, and Comb, in Case,
£lO 0 0
Pair Ebony Hair
Brushes, with Oval
Discs for engraving,
in Case,
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY*
118 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
London.
298 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
G. E. Edison
SWITCHON LAMPS.
Better Lighting at a Lower Cost.
\\
2<JO V
i 30 *V
M
B
3
N
7
Replacing an electric lamp
is a small matter —not a
great expense.
But count up the replace-
ments and their costs for a
year, and see if the number
will not easily bear reduc-
tion.
The only way to cut down
replacement costs is to buy
a perfectly reliable lamp in
the first place.
Switchon (G. e. Edison) Lamps
are made for strength and
durability as well as brilliant
illumination. Every detail
of their manufacture is in
the hands of specialised
experts.
When the parts are assembled they produce a lamp of
extreme durability, giving a clear, bright perfectly-
diffused light.
Try Switchon (G. e. Edison) Lamps for the home, the office
and factory before you conclude that all lamps are
“much of a muchness.”
Switchon (G. e. Edison) Lamps are a notable exception to
that rule.
The Handiest Waistcoat Pocket Camera —
“ENSIGNETTE” No. 1.
m
m
m
m
3181
A Strong and Efficient Little Camera that Fits the Waistcoat
Pocket and Produces Perfect Pictures.
FOR DAYLIGHT LOADING ROLL FILMS.
The “Ensignette” was the first Waistcoat Pocket Camera produced,
and it has remained first in the public favor ever since its introduction.
Thousands of “Ensigneites” have been sold, and all over the world this
fascinating little Camera has made a place for itself in the heart of the
photographer.
Its smallness, neatness and compactness is truly surprising m view of
the wonderful pictures it produces. It is always ready for immediate use,
and yet you can carry it about with you quite comfortably in your
Waistcoat Pocket.
With spools of non-curlable Roll Film the “Ensignette"’ can be loaded
and unloaded in daylight. Sharp, clear negatives, full of detail, can be
produced with EVERY model, so jnueh so that postcard enlargements are
absolutely equal in every way to pictures made direct from Postcard
Camera Negatives.
The ever-ready quick action of the “Ensignette” makes it especially
valuable when travelling. There is no focussing, no worrying about dark
slides: you run off six exposures on the film and can re-load in half a
minute.
No., 1 “Ensignette,” for pictures 2
complete in Pocket Case . .
Film Spools (6 exposures) ....
PRICE 35/-
PRICE lid.
THe House for GOOD Cameras,
386 George Street, Sydney.
. Also at
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane. 266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
144 Queen Street, Auckland; 43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: Booth and Trafalgar Streets, Annandale.
l*
a
2
ft
a£i
m
|h
IVH=^HI
£77^
VEA^
I?OHGUEPA T f
4
'S
\
When They Ask
for Something to Eat—
give them sandwiches spread with these
wholesome “Rex” Pates.
They are all pure meat prepared with
scrupulous care in the model “Rex” kitchens,
and packed in hygienic tins, absolutely free
of all solder flux. “Rex” Pates are a handy,
economical and time-saving spread. You will
never tire of their appetising flavor.
Grand for supper or afternoon tea, sand-
wiches —business and school lunches.
Sold everywhere in handy size tins.
Insist on “Rex"—the Australian product.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products :: Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon
J. 2982
J6£j=>^


Learn to Draw
TfS
There’s Money
in the
Pen.
The above .
is the titled
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THERE’S
MONEY
THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
224 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
Mothersili s
r
fz
CURES
THE
CHARMS
OF A SEA TRIP
need no longer be marred by the
dread of mal-de-mer
MOTHERSILL’S Sea-Sick Remedy
is guaranteed to prevent and cure Sea
and Train Sickness, or money refunded.
MOTHERSILL’S has received the unquali-
fied endorsement of the leading papers of
the world, and the finest testimonials
from the world's greatest men, women
and institutions.
i, No Bad After Effects.
All Chemists . in Large & Small Boxes.
Mothers]']! Remedy Co., Ltd.,
204 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Guaranteed to cure
SEA OR TRAIN SICKNESS
OR M'ONEV RETURNED
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BellS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
cdf
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
effected on all classes ot
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
Missing: Friends.
GEORGE NEWMAN, son of James and
Mary Newman, formerly of liurst-
ville, later of Canley Yale. Money awaiting
your claim. Communicate
A. GILROY,
35 Day Street, Leichhardt.
WILLIAM PALGRAVE, formerly of
New South Wales. Information re-
cmixwL KIRBY. Chemist, Port Adelaide.
THE PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
Better British Goods
displace foreign dominance
But this displacement has entailed four years of
hard work on the part of Britain’s manufacturers.
Do your part in seeing that the wartime endeavour and
achievement are repaid. When buying other than-all-wool
woven wear insist on
AU. I I Hi I
UNDER WEAR
Stockingß, Socks & Gloves
For Men. Women and Children.
The Media
Tab
Good Drapers and Stores every,
where can supply you. See the
Medfia Tab.
Manufactured by
W. TYLER SON 3 & CO.,
King Street, Leicester, England
zcd
Warm and thoroughly absorb-
ent Medea is manufactured in
Britain from other than all-
wool yarn, to give comfort and
service at popular prices.
«S>
JIOSS’ Celebrated
Racing' & Field Glasses
are procurable at the leading- jewellers in each large city
throughout the Commonwealth. For years past the British
Government took the entire output of the great Ross factories
for Army and Navy uses. “Ross” Binoculars proved in extensive
tests against all other makes of glasses to be the BEST, and so
were adopted for the British Army and Navy authorities.
They are retailed throughout Australia at Ross’ Catalogue
English prices, plus only duty and importing expenses.
FAIRFAX &l ROBERTS LTD.
Australian Agents for Ross Ltd.
23 (EL 2 5 Hunter Street, Sydney,
fcz
The Edison Amberola
brings the happiness
of music to the home.
Although low-priced, Edison
Amberolas render music—both
instrumental and vocal—in a
delightfully charming manner.
They reproduce by means of the wonder-
ful Edison Diamond Stylus Point, so that
there are no needles to change, and the
tone is remarkable for its smoothness and
mellowness.
The nearest Edisorl dealer will gladly
demonstrate the various styles to you—■
if that is not convenient, write for latest
catalog.
THOMAS ,A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only),
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
sdc
—
<3
>-■" ft/
Stow those three letters GBD at the
back of your mind till you feel you
MUST have a GOOD pipe.
The trade-mark GBD on the stem
ensures one that will ALWAYS give
a cool, clean, sweet smoke.
Ask for GBD—the perfect pipe.
fzd
The GBD is London-
made from the finest
French briarwood.
Sold everywhere, in
many popular shapes.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Inquirer: But does Magna Charta apply
to Roman Catholics? The Pope of the day annulled
it, which puts it in the same category as a mixed
marriage. The Charter was extracted from his vas-
sal by violence, which was thus, in law, violence
on the Pope himself and a usurpation or diminu-
tion of his authority M.S.: Sorry, had enough of
the Rockhampton-Gladstone argument for the present.
: “In the South-West” deserves immor-
tality
‘....A.C.M.: Nice as far as it goes, but it hasn’t
got a through ticket.... Jay B.: The “class of
literature” to which it belongs is blank verse with
rheumatic joints... .S.L.S.: So thin the winter wind
howls through it. ... A.R.N.: A good rule in such
verse is to avoid, on the one hand, every word
that fails to show a good pedigree, and, on the other,
every word that would not be used in the conver-
sation of educated people when discussing things
that really matter. .. .Michael Malice: Didn’t find
it thrilling. .. .Circle: Thanks, the whole staff is
still blushing... .V.D.S.G.: Shocking verse, and the
joke was grandfather’s. .. .Artemus H.: Verse doesn't
carry it we 11... .M.M.S.: You haven’t yet got the
song in “The 8ei15.”... .M.J.R.: Finish of “Foot-
ball Match” was done much the same way by a
well-known writer about 30 years ag0.... Sadie U.:
N 0.... J.H.D.: We don’t publish serials. You might
sell it somewhere else.... Gil: But it wasn’t Slat-
tery that app’inted Maloney: it was Dan O’Connor.
....Leah H.: Not up....lestyn Mai: “The Tree”
is far too stiff, formal and ordinary. .. . J.H.
(Queensland): “Refuge” and “Dark Ship” fail....
J.O’H.: “Cook’s Assistant” is long, tedious and hor-
ribly written. .. .B.W. (Kensington): Don’t like it.
.... Florence G.: It looked promising, but you’ve
left it rough and unfinished. .. .D.P.L.: Doesn’t get
to anything new....P.M. (Largs): Why not leave
it at the first line? All that repetition doesn’t bring
the girl any nearer R.Ii.W.: You have a nice
theme iri “Elder Sons.” Pity to spoil it. Try
again... . Couper: Not bad for a first shot; but it',
hasn’t enough in it....M.M. (Armidale): The
“Wild” verse won’t stand that irregularity. Doubt
if it will stand anything; but there’s force in it.
. ...J.P.M. : Doesn’t make its point clear....
Boozer: The bitter sorrow of .“Our Town” must
melt ail hearts :
We’ve lots of pubs, my friends, in our little town,
And the publicans are profiteering from sunrise till
after sundown ;.
And though they close at six, boys,
When the copper’s safe in bed
They are selling beer and shouting enough to wake
the dead.
The bobby he just has a snack every now and then,
A round of drinks at any time, and shout like
gentlemen ;
But should a swaggy worse for drink
Go lurching down the road,
The bobby’s after him to relieve him of his load,
And into the clink with a clank and a clink he
goes. (Too true !)
The squatters they could drink all day and e’en
the night as well;
Perhaps when they go down below
There’s rounds of drinks in Hell.
.. . .Adrian L.: Doesn’t catch us. That twist from
stanza to stanza is far from pleasing. .. .L.L.:
How could we “criticise too harshly” a tender thing
like this ?
. ...W.J.C.: “The Cycle” has material, but lacks
skill to make it interesting. .. .Vignt Un: “Mirage”
and “Reincarnation” miss. . . .C.C.8.: Very crude.
. ... Bendena: Says nothing- new, and the lines are
clumsy.... Agar: Not much in that.... Splinter:
Doesn’t pierce u 5.... Dan F.: “St. Raphael” can-
not twinkle here... . Black W.: Not the goods for
this market.... A.C. (Dunlop): Awful. .. .L.1.R.:
You want to know how to begin. Well, for a
start, learn to read. ... Glenrowen: “Four belles in
the afternoon saw her anchor weighed.” It wasn’t
many for all that shipload of romance. .. .Darby:
“Unseen Masterpieces” not in our line. . . .L.L.G.:
“Songster” is a rather poor sonnet.... Phyllys A. :
Verse follows the old ruts, and drops into most of
them... .Theo F. (Parramatta) : Not nearly. ...
Anne B.: “Regret” gets nearest.... Mary R.: None
of them.... Marie B.: “The Garden” lacks a gar-
den’s feeling.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.H.: The flat milkman is horrible, but the freak
Mona Lisa at the window is enough to turn a Bap-
tist into a Bolshevik.... J.E.L.: The sort of cow that
Kidman wouldn’t buy.... T.C.: They are English
fishermen and the boat in the background is English,
t 00... .D.S.: No demand for pancake people....
W.A.: Drawings too crude for direct reproduction;
but you may have some saleable ideas for bush
pictures. Write out some of your best and submit
them. There is always a market for ideas....
N.J.: Partly nude lady not alluring... .L.M.McM.:
That jest doesn’t hit us hard... .N.J.: The two
jazzers are too tangled for this family paper.. . .
M.S.: Drawing looks as if it had been through a
hydraulic press.... E.G.: At 141 the world is before
you. Whether you will grasp it by the hair or it
will wipe its boots on you reamins to be seen.
Study... .F.R.K.: Mrs. Smith looks like a wharf-
laborer wearing a pantomime head. You’ve over-
done it....R.8.: Very early' work... .H.A.8.: The
successful topical artist sleeps in his boots. You
haven’t that fireman instinct, and the topic that
blazed is black and cold before you fumble out of bed
yawning.
The Murrumbidgee is rising fast,
I looked at. it while riding past,
But the Lachlan’s dry as a skeleton's bones,
And not a sign of water shown.
’Neath hazy skies I travelled fast,
Over sandy plains and gravel passed.
Alas! At last the rain has come,
To save the stock and many a sum,
So this is what the squatters hum: —
“Oh, stay at home, ye drovers,
This drought is now all over.
We shall dance and sing together,
In fine or stormy weather.
But when our dance and song is done,
Our life shall be a perfect one.’’
“Woman,” said young Adam,
“Is the cause of all my pain.”
Having tasted of the fruit,
Regards her with destain.
“At thy gentle bidding,
Thou temptress, I fell;
Am now condemned to wander
All these years in Hell.”
For there is temptation
In each paradise.
'Tis the evil advocate
Of all lust and vice.
Why cannot we be strong
And wisely make our choice?
Just listen to the melody
Of that small, still voice ?


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Calmes-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads ana
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding _ sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Lid.,
Tel.—City 4246. 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
4247,
4810.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, AUGUST 18,
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons. 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
T" E North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regularly to:
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Byron Bay and the beautiful Tweed River.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TOUR FARES. —Sydney-Brisbane, via
Byron Bay: Ist, £6/16/-; 2nd, £4/16/6. Sydney-
Brisbane, via Grafton: Ist, £6/16/-; 2nd, £4/7/6.
For particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 796,655 10 0
Reserve Fund .. . . .. . . 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Dcpo-il Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 . specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love. Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
II KAO OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, .Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, Bouth Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. . . £2,000,000
Capital Paid,Up .. .. .. ..£1,200,000
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . £200,000
directors: HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H, Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 157 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,600,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
susodaa
S3AiaOBU
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping:, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
fhe All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS-TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgrow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, August 19.
R.M.S. TAHITI, September 16.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, October 14.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World —the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco,via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
R.M.S. MARAMA, from Wellington, August 10.
Connecting Steamer from Sydney August 5.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
cz
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS. BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
White Star Line
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Australia to London and Liverpool via
South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OP THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 13,500 tons
MEDIC 13,000 tons
SUEVIC 13,500 tons
PERSIC 13,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCEES 11.350 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,350 tons
MIETIADES 8,000 tons
MARATHON 8,000 tons
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
[ George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Puld-up Capital
Reserve Tund
Reserve Liability -
Directors:
- £4,765,700
- 3,275,000
- 4,765,700
£12,806,400
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, K.C.M.G
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buekland. Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq.,
The Hon. Janies T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
M.D.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
351 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
df
;Bank"
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2802 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3st% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor July Ist, 1920 Governor
Shipping.
m m?
gS* *
wssm: www
Osaka ShosenKaisha
(O.S.K. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service Manila,
Hong Kong, Japan and the Hast. Tran-
shipment cargo accepted for all Eastern
ports, Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhipping at Japan.
MADRAS MARU, about 10th Aug.
KOSOKU MARU, early Sept.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
of Australia,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
40 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: City 4166, Six Lines.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide.
INTERSTATE STEAMSHIP SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE.
FOR BRISBANE.
PORT ALMA, MACKAY, BOWEN JETTY, TOWNS-
VILLE JETTY and CAIRNS..
at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.'
Huddart Parker List
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne- to New' Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours Can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Lipe.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
Monthly Sailings thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—AII Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government.
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address:
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & 0. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritime? Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug: and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney. Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane*


Amusements.
Harry Rickards I'ivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
”p IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
NIGHTLY AT S.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.30.
TJHE TIVOLI FAMOUS PLAYERS
In the Musical Success of the Century,
HIS LITTLE WIDOWS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
yiVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, 7th AUGUST.
>
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents Miss LEE WHITE,
London’s Idol, in
BRAN PIE.
Prices as usual.
H
K U M A .1 E S T Y ’ S. S Y I) N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
THE SWEETEST OF ALL MUSICAL COMEDIES.
KISSING TIME.
By the J. C. WILLIAMSON ROYAL COMIC OPERA
COMPANY.
Plans at Paling’s.
R I T E RI O N T H EA T It IS. SY ItNISt.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
TILLY OF BLOOMSBURY.
By lAN HAY.
Interpreted by J. C. WILLIAMSON’S SPECIALLY-
ORGANISED COMEDY COMPANY.
Plans at Paling’s.
HEAT R E ROYAL, SYDNEY
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE WONDER MAN,
An absorbing Drama of High Society, featuring
GEORGES CARPENTIER,
THE IDOL OF FRANCE.
Plans at Paling’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
LAST NIGHTS OF
THE HEART OF WETONA.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
•OWN HALL, S Y D N E Y.
THE SYDNEY CHORAL SOCIETY.
Hon. Conductor: Mr. W. Reginald Gooud.
GRAND CHORAL CONCERT (Miscellaneous),
SATURDAY, 7th AUGUST, 1920, at 8 p.m.
Plans at Paling’s.
u
NI O N
O T Li R E
T II E A T R E ti
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC. EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
C. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Commencing SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 7,
Revival Of GILBERT & SULLIVAN OPERAS.
THE MIKADO.
THEATRE ROYAL.
THE LATEST LONDON MUSICAL SUCCESS,
YES, UNCLE.
Plan at Allen’s. Prices as usual.
ING’S THEATRE. M E L B O U It N E.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
K
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. and N. TAIT present EMELIF, POLINI in the
-emarkable American drama,
THE EYES OF YOUTH.
Prices as usual.
Plan at Allan’s.
► RINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Lessees: BEN & JOHN FULLER, LTD.
Direction ALLAN WILKIE.
ALLAN WILKIE AND COMPANY, including
FREDISWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
in
THE ROTTERS.
No. 2 Company, in “THE ROTTERS,” now Touring-
South Island of New Zealand.
Address G.P.0., Wellington, N.Z.
U Oil’s THEATRES. MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Also SIDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKF, STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
PRISCILLA DEAN in
THE WICKED DARLING,
and
DOROTHY PHILLIPS in
THE HEART OF HUMANITY.
Prices as usual.
|y|A.IESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
ANITA STEWART in
OLD KENTUCKY.
Matinges daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Amusements.
THE
GLACIARIUM,
, MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
IVI ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
jg KIT ANN l A THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
.MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
zs
>-00
UJ LLi
ea o
GQ SC
<co
are made for men who expect and appre-
siate distinctive appearance combined
with, comfort and long service.
They are specially designed and carefully
modelled to give the utmost in comfort
and satisfactory service.
We illustrate a choice Tan Willow Calf
Bal.
PRICE 40/- & - 557-
Patent Bals, Dull Calf Legs, 55/-
In full sizes and medium and wide
Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
We Desire
to Buy
dfz
OLD GOLD and SILVER, for
Melting Purposes.
DIAMONDS, PEARLS and other
Fine Gems.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.
23 Hunter St.,
SYDNEY.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
sdc
fzsd
lie f On Water Supply
° and Irrigation.
We have a Large 8 Varied Stock of Pumping Machinery.
Some Specialities of our own make are:—
Her piants VindmillS ‘ IB C ' Walkins Beam dumping
Hercules Oil Engines. 1.8. C. Centrifugal Pumps.
Hercules Boring Plants. Brass Artesian and Beep-
Well Pump Cylinders.
Syphon Windmill Pumps. Pump Bods; Drive Well
Points.
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, and Water-raising
Appliances of all kinds.
Consult
We have also good stocks of Ball
Black, Galvanised and Steam;
Standard).
Valves, Foot Valves, Water Fittings; “National” Pipe,
‘National” Black and Galvanised Casing (the World’s
z
sdc
intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd.
Merchants, Engineers & Contractors,
418-424 8 450-460 Ann Street
<££"“ Brisbane.
nearby). Works: Yeerongpilly
Zl
Dependable Guns
5k 3*
A
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
all metal, very strong.
Price 2/> post free.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post tree.
ias
SSi
83. Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 410-gauge, top, lever, ease-
hardened frame, 26in. barrels, both choke; weight
about 5 Jib Freight paid,
£6/10/
WE REPAIR
GUNS g RIFLES
Send for copy of “SURE
CATCH” Anglers’ Guide.
The Fisherman’s Vade
Mecum.
m
m
: :>:■
825. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
, , English D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, 28- or 30-
lnch barrels, both choice, top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
patent fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib, weight about 741 b. Freight paid, SLIo/10/“
“Koolah” Shaving Sticks
Delightful to Use. 10d. each, post free.
Owing to market -fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
M
EisLi
812. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L
Bigeon Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, tup fiver,
dense Trogan nitrol 30in. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high file-cut rib, pistol
grip, chambered for 2Jin. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to 741 b. t It !
Tested for Nito Powders Freight paid, 3L*A 0/1.0/“
msssss
m?*
m
'• I.", ■>. /
834. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gaug’e, slide grip, steel - barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges; weight , .
about 71b Freight paid, JslLis/^5/“
POWDER
AUSTRAL ... 4/0 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN ... 6/- lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 10/6 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
E. C. SMOKELESS 11/9 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS 10 6 lb.
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
S3
826. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D, & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2iin. cartridges,
beautifully engraved, weight about 731 b Freight paid,
£l5/15/-
MYRROHL
Made in
America.
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC- -CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth; hardens the gums; prevents decay ; sweetens
the breath and is specially recommended for pyorrhoea.
Price 1/9 tube (postage 2%d. extra). Small sample, post free.
Steven’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
zd
top action, solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. or 32in.
pistol grip, walnut stock ; weight about 6ilb. Gun can be taken aoart. same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
Ejector, 65/-
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.:
4/8 Inter-State.
ILLUSTRATED SPORTSMAN’S GUIDE POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
. ftlic£ Simmons ffl.
Headquarters: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES—
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St, BRISBANE.


Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
Banish Backache and Kidney Troubles.
Prove Their Value for Yourself.
For years I have suffered with weak kidneys and backache. At times
Mrs. M. E. DAVIS (from a vhoto.).
the pain in my back was
so severe, it seemed I
could hardly stand it.
Nothing that I took
seemed to do me any
good, although I tried
numerous remedies.
Finally I took a course of
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills,
and am now entirely
cured. I had not been
taking the pills two days
before I could feel the
good effects of same.
They are marvellous pills,
and I can heartily recom-
mend them to anyone suf-
fering from Backache or
Kidney Trouble. They
deserve success, and I
shall always recommend
them to my friends.
Sincerely yours,
MURIEL E. DAVIS.
Glenlossie,
Eastern Avenue,
Kensington.
AS GOOD FOR MEN AS FOR WOMEN.
It is no longer necessary for anyone to suffer with Backache, Kidney, Bladder or
Urinary troubles, or to contend with Rheumatism or Stiff Joints, for Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills quickly remove all such troubles.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are the most wonderful remedy yet devised for ridding
the system of uric acid and driving out all the poisonous impurities. They are
entirely different from all other remedies and act on the principle of cleansing out
the poisons and remedying the cause. No matter how long you have suffered, how
old you are, or what you have used, the principle of Gin Pills is such that it is
practically impossible* to take them into the human system without results. They
start to work the minute you take them, and they help you from the first time' that
you use them.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills from all Chemists and Storekeepers at 1/6, or in larger
bottles holding more than twice the quantity, for 2/6.
D
Sheldons
z
mm
Economical Power for Woollen Mills,
Mines, Rolling Mills, Pumping Plants,
Etc.
On all other big plants demand-
ing high-power work; also for driving Electric
D. C. Generators and Alternators in Parallel.
Uniflow Steam Engines
By Cole, Marchant 8 Morley Ltd.,
Central Exhaust, Compound Steam Engines. Low fuel and
steam consumption. No return of steam, therefore economical
in running. * Totally enclosed forced lubrication.
The Uniflow drives with widely fluctuating loads—all sizes i 120
to 1000 B.H.P. stocked.
Get Catalogue; also particulars.
Marshall Locomobiles.
Airostyle Paint Spraying Units.
Newell’s Rotary Kilns.
Newell’s Compound Grinding Mills.
British-Avstralian Engineering Co. Ltd.
National Mutual Buildings, Cr. Queen and Coliins 'Streets,
Melbourne. Box 1303 G.P.O.
N.S.W. Agents—Austral Engineering Supply Co., Kent Streets, Sydney.
S.A. Agents—Parsons & Robertson, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Sonnets of Laughter.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
i.
IF time should compass this defeat of
truth, , . -. ,
To' make age master of blind wisdom s
And steal the laughter from the lips of
youth
To mould to cynic yappings that should
please ~ ,
The faded soul born old and suckled grey,
We should be glad to lie beneath a weed,
To dream of springtime tossing flowery spray
And know the wind made merry with the
L’p the March valley, down the April plain,
Light-hearted as the men we used to
know....
God! What a mirth there is in rippling
grain
Jesting to bread, while the grim dealers go
Seeing smudged paper in the brown, fat
yield
That tickles to delight a shining field!
ii.
I think that men can never laugh so well
As when their muscles feel the pleasant
ache
Of some strong task well done. The trees
that fell,
Volleying their thunders for a new bride’s
sake,
To make a home in some green wilderness,
The long, brown furrow following the
team
That shone to give the field a greener dress,
The tools laid by, by labor taught to
gleam, •
These mark with what a zest the tale goes
round.
How the hot faces crinkle in the glow
Of swift words tossed in happy gusts of
sound;
And Wisdom breathes in Folly’s ear so low
That all his bells ring out a merry peal
For the best fellowship that men can feel.
111.
Laughter and Song are sisters fair and twin,
So like in feature that in ancient dawns
Young planets, born of ether, learned to spin
In such a merriment as shook the lawns
Of smooth and growing light to billowing
bows /
Of seven-fold color ; and the rhythm of days
To interlacing mirth and music rose,
Skipping the great hooped comet’s fiery rays
As barefoot girls skip ribbons at a fair.
I know not whence the song that breathes
a sob,
So full of joy is all this swift, sweet air;
What discord of a pulsing reed should rob
Man of his holy trinity of youth—
Laughter and Song, and their strong brother
Truth?
IV.
Whate’er be false, young laughter must be
true.
Judas may kiss and with his kiss betray;
And white Delilah’s tears as clear as dew
Are only water, though she weep away
A man’s great strength to bondage of desire.
Laughter is whole, and of that whole the
half
Is less by half than nothing to the taste;
For never yet came traitor with a laugh.
The good round jest has kindnesses to waste;
And kindness walks not with a hidden
knife.
Good friend, in Arab style I eat your salt
And, eating, share your brotherhood and
life.
Eat mine; and to all evil cry a halt.. ..
Here’s the best salt of truth a tongue can
bear —
Side-splitting mirth that takes you unaware,
v.
Faith, Hope and Charity are white and fair,
Three lovely graces almost talked to death
By solemn sinners whose most holy care
Is to repeat old saws with bated breath,
Deeming salvation poised upon the tongue
That gabbles only what was said before.
O great Saint Paul, come back, be wise, be
young!
Re-write the page and make your graces
four,
Or blend the three and in their essence find
A subtler, stronger minister of good.
Faith, Hope and Charity ! No saintliest mind
Wrapped in their triple virtue ever stood
But in his heart of hearts lay softly curled
The sense of humor that redeems the world.
VI.
I feel the world is younger than it seems.
Toss out the banners of the coming spring
And make a pageant of triumphal dreams
Come true at last for every bird that sings!
“Love, love, love, love,” chirps out the glint-
ing wren;
And to the tune the leaves and blossoms
dance.
Oh, surely loving-time for maids and men
Is in the larger springs of new romance!
The winter of ten thousand years is gone;
There shall be golden summers ripe with
peace.
More love, more love! And the great world
rolls on
Feeling the flood-tides of its joy in-
crease
Old world —new world by no dull thought
defiled,
Tuned to the laughter of a little child!
VII.
I know not how men made their gods a fear
And gave them jaws of wood and hearts of
stone.
He that hath ears to hear, why, let him hear
In his God’s voice the tender human tone,
In his God’s song the splendid human song,
In his God’s mirth the holy mirth of man.
Shall God be God if His own law go wrong,
If His own rhyme of life refuse to scan,
If He, the greater, be indeed the less? -
Man at his best laughs best, re-echoing
The great God-laughter that is blessedness
To small stars dancing in a grassy ring.
Heart of'man’s heart! Since the first sor-
row broke
In conquering human mirth God saw the
joke!
N.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WEIGHT.
In the Ranges.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
POLICE-SERGEANT John Cashin sat'
on the verandah of the Cural station,
his legs outstretched, his hands
clasped behind his head, his pipe of fire-
less ashes in his mouth. He had had a
hard day’s ride through bleak mountainous
hills and deep gorges in search of a strayed
or stolen horse, the property of Hiram
Grainger, Esq., the big man of the district,
whose mortgages were as many as old-world
leaves in the autumn, and with whom it
was wise to stand well. Cashin’s search had
been without result, and it seemed to him,
looking back on his day’s wanderings, that
the black, unholy country of hill and hollow
had devoured it, hoof and hide. To-morrow
he would have to report the matter to
Grainger, and he knew the snarl of contempt
with which it would be greeted, the toss of
the head k that would dismiss him, as some-
thing not worth bothering about, frorh the
big man’s presence. He shared the country-
side’s dislike of Grainger, but, because of
Grainger’s wealth and influence, was afraid
to make open confession of it. However,
he was too tired now to think strenuously,
too tired to think at all, even though a cer-
tain sweetness was to be got out of mali-
cious thought. His pipe still in his mouth,
he fell asleep, and when an hour afterwards
he turned in his chair and awoke he knew
that he had dreamed the dream again.
He rubbed his eyes and stretched his arms,
and it all came back to him with its
usual strangeness and perplexity and lack of
definiteness.
It was an odd dream that he could in
no wise account for. When it had occurred
to him first, he could not say. It seemed
to him at times that it had been born with
him, that he had dreamed it even before
the days when cognisance of dreams had
come to him. Always there was a road in
it, a long road, yellow here and red there,
a road that ran between rocks and trees
over high, rough country ; and on this road
convicts worked, men in grey with arrows
on their sleeves, and picks and shovels and
axes in their hands. Always he seemed to
be walking along this road, walking towards
the convicts, but never quite reaching them.
Always at his approach, it seemed to him,
too, the convicts ceased their work and looked
towards him. All except one. That man
never looked towards him, but went on
working doggedly, dully, his back _ bowed,
the dust from his pick-strokes hanging like
a mist about him. Then there was another
man, a man with a carbine —a warder, no
doubt —big, robust, domineering, who never
turned to look at him. Always these two
men kept their backs to him, their faces
from him, as though untouched by the gen-
eral consciousness of his presence.
Perhaps once a week, never . less than
once a month, this dream had come to him
from as far back as he could remember—
always the- same: the long white and red
road, the toiling convicts and the two men
with averted faces. And always it seemed
to him, as the dream was repeated, that he
approached closer and closer to the waiting,
watching convicts and the two men with
averted faces.
As a boy, often he had told his mother of
this dream. He remembered that she had
always laughed it away, but he remembered
also that the laughter was only on her lips
and not, in her eyes, that there was fear
rather than laughter in the look of them.
Cashin turned on his side. Though
Grainger had done him no wrong he dis-
liked him. He disliked him in every fibre
and vein of his body. It was curious that
it should be so, but so it was. He knew
that his aversion to Grainger was shared
by many, and for good reasons. Grainger
was a hard man where money was, and
a cruel man to those who could not hit back.
He had a keen business head, and great
strength in his arms and shoulders, and
the punch in his right arm was like the
kick in the hoof of a horse. Because of that
right arm Hallick, the rouseabout out at
Grainger's homestead, was going about with
a ruined face. For some reason, Hallick
would not say why, Grainger had struck
him, making a mess of his features, and
afterwards had crowed about his achieve-
ment, even telling Cashin himself what he
had done to “the crimson, cowardly swine.”
It was not the first time either that Hal-
lick had felt the weight of the big man’s
body and the push of his great fist. Why
Hallick stood it no man could say. Why
Hallick did not retaliate, or why, failing
to retaliate, he did not leave him once
and forever was a matter of wonder to all.
There must be a reason: some said that
Grainger had a hold over Hallick, and that
he could gaol him at a word. Perhaps such
was the case, otherwise why should Hal-
lick put up with it all?
Cashin heard the clock strike one, and
then he heard no more till a thunder of
knocks at his door awakened him. He got
up, struck a light and went to the door.
There he saw Farman, Grainger’s overseer.
Farman was breathing deeply, his chest
heaving as though he had come fast and
far. He had a wild look in his eyes, too —
the look that comes into eyes that have
seen something terrible.
“Cashin.” he said, “Grainger has been
murdered!”
The candle in Cashin’s hand shook till
the grease spilled over and the flame danced.
“What’s that?” he said.
“He’s been shot, shot dead.”
“Great God!” said Cashin. “Tell me all
about it.”
Farman, subdued now by the knowledge
that someone else was sharing the horror
with him, moved into the room, and there
stood facing Cashin.
“There’s not much to tell,” he said ; “he
went out this morning to look at some new
fencing over at Bailey’s Creek, saying as
he rode off that he’d be back by lunch. He
had to be back at lunch, as Martin, the
stock-buyer, was to be at the homestead about
lunch-time to take delivery of some cattle
Grainger had sold him. We waited till
sundown, expecting him every moment. Then
Martin got impatient, tired of waiting, and
we went out to Bailey’s Creek together. We
found him just by the corner post. He
was dead, shot through the head.”
(Continued on next page.)


wonderful Healin
S \\\\W
V, /;
// .
///
03*
if
$
f
- 1
riiii]
Mr.
T.J.
Taylor.
Back Broke Out in Inflamed Ulceration —Bedridden for Months
and Suffered Untold Agony —Many Treatments Failed to Cure.
ANOTHER of those remarkable cures has come to Sight which proves Zam-Buk to be the unsurpassed
l \ remedy tor ail sorts of injuries, ulcerating wounds and skin complaints, and immeasurably superior
ordinary ointments. This is furnished by the striking case of Mr. T. J. Taylor. Mr. Taylor has
followed a military profession nearly all his life, and while in England was attached to the 2nd Dragoon
Guards. He also served for two years with the A.LF. at Rabaul. Writing from 55 Egan Street, Newtown,
Sydney, on behalf of her husband, Mrs. Taylor says: “Nine years ago my husband was injured by a fall,
m which his spine was affected, the injury being in the small of the back. The flesh broke out into ulcers,
first m the shape of small blisters, and then merged into an inflamed wound. He had to lay up for three
months, during which time he could do absolutely nothing, being confined to his bed.
, . . , The doctor who was consulted stated that he had a diseased backbone. He went into two
ospitals, but they coidd do nothing for him. The ulcer grew larger and larger, the pain being awful,
ihe spine became so affected that he could not move or do anything.
1 then told him I would take him in hand and treat him. I bathed the wound with hot water
and then applied Zam-Buk to it, and got the ointment well absorbed into the wound. After using
Zam-Buk for but one month the wound was doing well and healing up nicely. All the inflammation was
tas-ien out, and at the end of three months the wound had healed perfectly. My husband stated that
Zam-Buk had practically saved his life, as no other treatment gave him the slightest relief, for his
back was getting worse instead of better.”
The Reliable Antiseptic Home Healer.
WHY ZAM-BUK IS UNEQUALLED.
Zam-Buk has attained a reputation of world-wide fame because
the herbal extracts used in the preparation of Zam-Buk are carefully
selected and scientifically combined. THE INGREDIENTS ASSIST
ONE ANOTHER, and the result of this perfect compounding is the
most successful skin remedy known.
Zam-Buk recalls the pure herbal balms in favor with the Ancient
Roman athletes and gladiators, to whom quick, perfect healing often
meant all the difference between life and death.
Every particle in Zam-Buk plays a distinct part in overcoming disease and
helping Nature to grow healthy new skin. Because of its herbal origin, Zam-
Buk maintains its high standards of healing efficiency and wholesomeness for all
time. It cannot “go bad,” and this advantage alone is a. strong reason why
every home should keep a pot of Zam-Buk always handy. 1/6 and 3/6 everywhere.
am
EVERY HOME NEEDS a
pot
I arman put his hands to his eyes, wiping
them as though to clear them of something.
mv,c^ ai V m ’ u e ® a n ld ’, “ the m an who shot him
must have hated him like hell to make
such a mess of him. It was fierce.”
Cashin was silent for a while. Then he
asked: "And who was the man’”
Farman looked up at him. '“That’s for
you to find out.
“Was there no one there?”
None, and the rifle was gone too.”
reflected for a moment. Then:
whole? 6 day ?’^ e 01611 tlle omes tead the
“Ah !” Said Farman ’ “except Ilallick.”
r g°ne,” continued Farman, “and
I hope
“What?” asked Cashin.
But Farman did not answer in words,
it w-as the look in his eyes that told Cashin
what he hoped.
In answer to that look Cashin replied:
Nevertheless, I’ll get Ilallick.”
At dawn Cashin set out to follow Hal-
hcFs tracks. Hallick was at least 10 or
12 hours ahead of him, and this start, to a
man who knew the country, a man who
had ransacked its ranges and gullies from
early boyhood, meant much. But Cashin
was a bushman, too, born to the saddle
and bred to the track. Where Hallick led
the way he would follow, follow night and
day till he laid hands on him. In the wet
sands of Bailey s Creek, a, mile or so from
where the shooting had taken place, he dis-
covered that Hallick was riding. He had
provided himself with a horse. Oasfhiin,
reined in, looking down at the deep hoof-
prmts in the sand. Maybe this was the
horse for which he himself had been look-
ing, and which he had failed to find.
Cashin, in spite of his strange dream-
experiences, did not look the type of man
who dreams dreams and sees visions. He
was alert, practical, dutiful, exact —all that
a police-officer should be. His reputation
was Class I. in the force, and so stern was
lie in the discharge of his duty that it was
said he would not hesitate to arrest his own
father or mother if the law required him to
do so. His courage, through long years of
service and in many a trying situation, had
been proved beyond question. There was
no place to which he would not go if occa-
sion needed, no peril he would not face if
duty called.
Because of the type of man Hallick was
and his intimate knowledge of the country,
he knew that his pursuit would be no short
or easy one. So that hunger might not
turn him from the track, he had provisioned
himself with three days’ rations. He felt
that Hallick had done similarly, for the
country into which the fugitive was head-
ing was wild and houseless, and visited by
none except, perhaps, a stray fossicker or
an occasional musterer searching for lost
cattle. It was country where a man might
cry out till he died of hunger, and no man
hear his cries.
At noon of the second day of the pursuit
Cashin crossed a stretch of road that was
strangely like the road in his dream. Almost
he expected, looking up it, to see the group
of convicts and the two men with averted
faces that he had seen so often in his sleep.
Casliin tracked like a blackfellow. He
had learnt the trick in the Gulf Country,
and possessed powers of observation and
perception unusual in a white man. He
had followed Hallick’s tracks with ease
even, on the first day, where the fugitive
had taken pains to baffle pursuit. After
the first day the pursuit became easier still,
as Hallick, thinking himself safe, had
thrown precaution to the winds. Sometimes
at a walk, sometimes at a trot, sometimes
at a canter, Gaskin, all ears and eyes for
sights and sounds, followed on his tracks.
At the end of the second day the ser-
geant came to the head of a great gorge,
and here he found Hallick’s horse. It was
the same animal that he had searched for
so futilely three days before. Because he
had no further use for it. seeing that the
gorge was too rough for horse-going, Ilal-
lick had abandoned it and taken to foot-
travel. Cashin did likewise, hobbling his
own horse against the time when he would
need it again.
The track was a mere narrow siding on
the face of the cliff. He had to brace his
whole body back in order to avoid going
too fast .and too far. Beneath lay the.
dusky green tops of tall trees turned to the
size of saplings in" the immense depths of
the gorge, and around it bare bastions of
cliffs towered, turned to yellow in the dying
light. .As Cashin looked at the depths and
the heights, the vastness and the wonder
of the place, he seemed to himself to shrivel
and grow little. He felt, somehow, that it
took no account of him, that he was nothing
to it, that he had not been considered in
its intention, its plan. Yet, because it was
Ins duty to do so, he went onward.
Till he reached the talus at the foot of
the gigantic cliff-wall, he did not breathe
freely. There, because further travel in
the darkness would be thick with peril, he
camped by the side of a great down-thrown
rock, making no fire for the reason that a
lire would warn Hallick of his whereabouts.
Too tired from the strenuousness of his foot-
work to sleep immediately, lie lay for some
time watching and listening. He saw only
the dim hugeness of the circumvallating
cliffs; he heard only the sounds of falling
waters. When he awoke the sun was
already up, the cliffs standing out in the
early light, like giants with lit foreheads.
Through the filmy tops of the tall moun-
tain ashes above him, towering, too, like
clean, white-bodied giants, kingfishers were
flashing, and from far down, where the
bottom creek wound its way through a
jungle of ferns, came the call of lyre-birds.
Careless of his presence, and alive only to
their needs and happiness, in the bushes
around him thrushes sang and magpies
warbled.
At another time he might have taken
notice of the beauty and music which sur-
rounded him, but now he had one thought
alone—to capture his man. Nothing but
this mattered. It was his sole purpose, his
day s work, and till it was accomplished
nothing else counted.
Because he knew of the tangle of ferns
and trees, vines and roots and the chaos of
rocks and logs which made the bottom creek
impassable, he kept on the ridges above it.
He was sure that it was this way, and no
other, that Hallick had taken, for Hallick
was too familiar with the character of such
a gorge to venture into the green gloom of
its thick entanglements, where one might
break neck or limb and no man be the wiser.
As he moved forward he made as little noise
or stir as possible. Sometimes, where a
clear alley-way between stately tree-ferns
opened up, he paused to scan the distance
for a sight of his quarry, flour after hour
he did this without result.
During the noon and the afternoon, till
the great cliffs on the western side of the
gorge threw their vast shadows half-way
across it, what he noticed most was the
almost entire absence of life which charac-
terised the place. Seldom a. bird-note
sounded, and more seldom still a bird moved.
The whole great gorge, trees and cliff and
all, seemed as if it slept. Later in the after-
noon, however, the place awoke. A wind
coming down from the heights set ash, beech,
turpentine and sassafras astir, till a sing-
ing and a sighing that was very sweet after
so much silence began in their leafage. Then,
too, the birds awoke—the black cockatoos,
the thrushes, the black magpies, the honey-
eaters and the bower-birds, filling the scented
air with songs, and cries and calls. It was
very delightful, all of it, worth going a long
way and enduring much to see and enjoy;
but Cashin paid little heed to it, for he had
work to do —work that, perhaps, was near-
ing its end, for he had seen something.
He had seen a stone rolling down the side
of a ridge, and, tracing the direction of the
stone upwards, he had seen that it had come
from behind a rock, some hundred yards or
so away. Now, what had displaced that
stone —some living thing, no doubt!
He moved forward, crouching low, pick-
ing his steps, his revolver in his hand. Often
lie stopped, often he searched the vicinity
of the rock with the keenest of scrutiny,
for he knew that it was a life and death
matter on which he was engaged. It would
be foolish to take chances, since Hallick was
a dead-shot and a desperate man.
As Cashin came round the corner of the
rock Hallick jumped to his feet and ran for
his rifle. But he had further to go than
Cashin, and before he could reach the place
where it stood the sergeant had it in his
hand. Hallick halted, his eyes wild, a big
scar on his forehead showing purple.
“I’ve got you—out with your hands!”
Hallick crouched as if to spring, some-
thing of the beast of prey in his attitude:
but Cashin, advancing step by step, pushed
the revolver in his face, and so brought him
to reason.
When he was handcuffed and strapped to
a tree, Cashin said to him: “You know whv
I’m here?”
Hallick nodded, his ruined face whitening.
I killed him, ’ he said, as though every
word he. uttered were a curse—“and I’d do
it again.”
Cashin looked at the man’s broken nose,
at the scar on his forehead, at the eyes from
which hate seemed to issue in little darts of
fire, and knew that he had spoken his soul.
“We’ll camp here to-night, and to-morrow
we’ll go back,” said Cashin.
He made a fire of dead wood, setting a.
log alight. Then he brewed tea, some of
which, with bread and meat, he gave to
Hallick. When they had finished eating he
made a bed of dry fern leaves, and lay down
on it. On the farther side of the fire stood
Hallick fastened to the tree.
“Why did you kill him?” Cashin asked.
Hallick made an upward movement with
his pinioned hands, as though to indicate
his face.
“He did this,” he said. “He struck me
when my hands were tied. And he did more.
Strip me and you’ll see the marks of his
boots on my body.”
“Why didn’t you leave him?”
Hallick was silent, the look of a driven
beast in his eyes.
“He had me in his power,” he said pre-
sently. "I don’t want to tell how, but if
you want to hear”-
Cashin put up his hand.
“I don’t want to hear,” he interrupted.
“Keep your story to yourself.”
Hallick softened.
"That’s good of you,” he said.
Presently the sergeant turned over, his
back to the fire and Hallick, and tired out
by the day’s movements fell asleep. Then
the dream came to him again. He was on
the road once more, the road of red and
yellow dust, and he was moving towards the
convicts. Exactly as things had occurred
so many times before they occurred again
—the convicts, leaning on their picks, left
off their work, and looked towards him. The
two men were there, too, those whose faces
he had never seen. Then even as he dreamed
lie felt that something that had been hidden
from him was about to be made plain. Sud-
denly, as he stood watching, the warder
turned, and suddenly each of the convicts
raised a hand, and pointed a finger at him,
as though accusing him of something. He
looked at the warder’s face—it was Grain-
ger’s. Then, slowly, the convict with the
bowed back turned to him also. And it was
his own face he saw, but a face ruined and
broken as Hallick’s was. Who had so
ruined it, so broken it? The pointed fingers
told him who!
Sleep left him, but his dream did not. In
the misty starlight, with the smoke dimly
moving between him and the stars, he
thought it over. So this was the mystery
connected with his grandfather, which he
had never fathomed, never sought to fathom.
And this, too, explained his instinctive hos-
tility to Grainger. Grainger’s grandfather
had been a brute, too.
He turned and looked at Hallick. The
man’s head was drooping in uneasy, uncom-
fortable sleep. The firelight played on his
broken features. A great pity that turned
to a great rage took charge of him, and
he slept no more that night.
The next morning, when he turned home-
wards, Hallick was not with him. Why.
he himself only knew, but in Cural he said:
“Hallick is dead —shot himself out in the
ranges. The country was too rough to
bring his body in, so I buried him out there.”
But Hallick was not dead.
RODERIC QUINN.


M
Isf' :
-m
P&2s
]
WESTIN GHOUS
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—B9 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
BRAIN WAVES
If you want to prosper in life—to think out
schemes which will bring success, you must
have a clear head and a brain free from dullness
and fatigue. Headache, La
situde or Indigestion must
not .come to distract your
mind. Avoid Head
aches, Dizziness, It
digestion, Bilious-
ness and that “tired
feeling ” by taking
Carter’s Little
Liver Pills, the
Great Liver Invig-
orator. Thousand.
dc
CARTERS
ITTLI
IVER
PILLS
have attained success by their timely help.
Just try one after meals. Safe for children.
Small Pill— Small Doss—Small Price,
GENUINE must
bear signature
zsd
No Shortage. Ample Supplies
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wh Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders'
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
68} PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news,
of Australians in Europe and at_ home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High ITolborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
WRIGHTS
*
The famous
cbewiofrsweet
This
NEW
flavour is
delicious!
Obtainable from Chemists*
Confectioners and Storekeepers*
Fine for the teeth,
appetite and digestion
Send 3d. for trial packet
to WRIGLEY’S. Box 2376.
C. P. 0.. Sydney.
SEALED TIGHT
-KEPT RIGHT
Made in Australasia
zsdcf
NOW THREE
FLAVOURS
m
1&Q
peg
m
23
q\C
*i«f!ais^B®PlP^
mgmg Em
*sg
V-S
a?
<"?
;*i? i
HJi
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we StH-e
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Horlick’s Malted Milk contains
all requisite forms of nourish*
ment. That is what makes
Horlick’s so rich so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hot-
lick's, there is a great treat is
store for you.
HQ RUCK’S
HALTED MILK
m
■ ■
m
■
'
§s| r:
C-3
-
ffemington
Revolver and Pistol
Cartridges
Accurately made and carefully tested in the arms for which
they are designed, these cartridges assure correct function*
ing and maximum accuracy.
for Shooting Right
Regardless’of the make or calibre of your favorite revolver
or automatic, your dealer can supply you with a box oi
Remington UMC cartridges—thoroughbreds In every
particular.
Catalogues free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative
Box €B6, G.P.0., Melbourne


•MANGROVif
LEATHER
LTI
THE EFFICIENCY OF YOUR
POWER PLANT DEPENDS
to a very large extent on the complete utili-
sation of the power produced. In this matter
the quality of the transmitter (in other
words the belting) used is of the utmost im-
portance. Mang-rovite Leather or Raw Hide
Belting is the finest of its kind, and is unsur-
passed for Strength, Flexibility and Endurance.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowicf, Managing: Director),
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney,
W. Australia: Gibbs, Bright &Co., Fremantle
S th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
Victoria and Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co.,
Melbourne.
A Bar of Steel
can be analysed and reduced to a formula
—but there are conditions and elements
SILVER STEEL
is of an extremely high standard, and is expressly suitable for Small Taps,
Reamers, Drills, Punches, Dental Tools, Clock and Electrical Work.
A new shipment just landed in all sizes, from l-64th to 19-32nds, rising
in l-64ths of an inch.
Write' to Desk “A” for prices, etc.
THe Eagle QX Globe Steel Co. L*td.
Makers of Ults-a.-Capita! High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent St., Sydney.
264 JLatrotae St., Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle.
John Reid and Nephews, Brisbane
Paul and Gray, .Ltd., Newcastle,
Charles Atkins and Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Dick’s Balata Belting
for True Economy.
TRADE
: r.
HARK
Sole
Agent.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.
“Asbestos House,”
©or. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 Lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Newcastle Agents—Paul & Cray Ltd.
TO THE DISCRIMINATING MOTOR-REPAIR MAN.
Any eulogistic statements regarding the virtues of
THE SMALL SCREWING AND TAPPING TOOLS
as Manufactured by the GREENFIELD TAP AND DIE CORPORATION
szd
fail flat and are entirely superfluous. Statements
of Particulars are only necessary.
The Greenfield Tap and Die Corporation now
controls the output of the Wiley & Russel, Wells
Bros., and several other factories. We-have just
landed a shipment of these celebrated tools, and
spme information concerning them is herewith
given.
Kras
2*3
f
S.A.E. Hexagon Die Nuts—x,- 28, 3/9;
I x 24, 4/4; 7-16 x 20, 4/6; fx 20, 5/3;
9-16 x 18, 6/-; 11-16 x 16, 6/3 each.
Whit. Hexagon Die Nuts —s x 20, 3/9;
5-16 x IS, 4/-; 7-16 x 14, 4/6; i x 12,
5/-; 9-16 x 12, 5/3; f x 11, 5/6; f x 10,
6/3 each.
Prices Cleveland Twist Drills (all
Shanks), Files, Reamers, Spanners,
etc., gladly furnished on request.
■mm
wmm
Whit. Taps— l-16, 1/11; 5-64, 1/9; 3-32,
1/6; 7-64, 1/6; i, 1/4; 5-32, 1/4;
3-16, 1/8; 7-32, 1/9; *, 1/10%; 5-16,
2/-; |, 2/2%; 7-16, 2/4; i, 2/9; 9-16,
3/3; f, 3/6; 11-16, 4/-; f, 4/9; f, 6/3;
lin., 9/- each.
S.A.E. and Left-hand Taps at similar
prices.
M.M. Taps—s, 1/9; 5.5, 2/-; 6, 2/-; 7,
2/2; S, 2/5; 9, 2/5; 10, 2/5; 11, 2/6;
-12, 3/-; 14, 3/5; 16, 3/10; 18, 4/6
each.
'CJJ;
aaiii/un snvms
Hie House for Motor
Engineers’ Supplies,
itt
-4"
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, oanoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £27/10/-
Correspondence invited.
landler
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
L" '
'
ft
r
We manufacture what is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Hines listed
We illustrate Heavy Side Holt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves or special valves to ariV specifi-
cation; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from to Bin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include:—
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRACT V^/ORK —SondSpecifications
ALDERDICE LTD., Warrnambool
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office— AGENTS—
TUDOR ACC^3^ A TOR b CO- LTD., ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY. Adelaide, Brisbane Perth
DELGO-LIGHT
A complete Electric Light * Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
m
B«*ik4yW i»j j j Iff/,
Runs on
Kerosene
Safe.
Reliable
One Gallon of Kerosene
will light 32 Lamps for 4-]/ 2 hours.
full particulars from sole agents—
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBIRTON, FRANK! LTD. ,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
m
For your selection. Good stocks of
ENGLISH STEAM FITTINGS.
SITTINGS that feature the three essentials to continuous power con-
mtir,tTw I i^ n r" AcCUracy ’^ Ql ] ality ’ and Durability. Reliable British
y Jt t cons’erre the forces of industry under most exacting eon-
T * e s l >ecial *sed products of the United Brass Founders
of England. Ask us for particulars of
Steam Valves, Fullway Valves, Plug Cocks, Asbestos and Gland
racked Cocks, Pressure and Vacuum Gauges, Gauge Mountings,
Lubricating Devices, Injectors, etc., in Brass, Gunmetal and Iron.
Send your enquiries. Prices are right.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers & Machinery Merchants, 60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Cable Address: "LACY,” Sydney.
-----
150
m
210
90
60
mSi
30
mm
Ljf j
300
PRESSURE,GAUGE
?MpOC.*ir
