

+r\jr
JE
or
R B
a
m
)*
$
o
o
1
x
JONES
WHERE it does not actually
supersede the older forms
of transport, the motor-
car links up the great arteries of
commerce. And since the utility of
the automobile is measured by the
efficiency of its tyres, Goodyear
plays an increasingly important part
in the support and extension of
social and economic life.
Whether the railway end in the
heart of a metropolis—where high-
ways are smooth and generous—or
thrust out into the mountain range
or the torrid plain—where rock-
bound road and scorching sand
oppose their barriers to progress—
the Goodyear Tyre does not fail.
It discharges its high obligations
to its myriad users with a fidelity
that ever adds to an already exalted
reputation.
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2089.
Thursday, February 26, 1920.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


T 1
•9T,
B lUf/o
-
See this brand
..on each Shirl’
mm.
X
%
a
£
I oSns
IS
Made in Australia
Shirts
—feel better, look better, and are better.
Small wonder when you consider we have been
making shirts for over 25 years. In every par-
ticular Thistle Shirts measure up to the exacting
requirements of discriminating men.
Ask also for “Thistle” Pyjamas.
Sold at all Leading Shirt Departments.
Alexander Stewart & Sons Ltd.
Makers, BRISBANE AND SYDNEY
A S 4
THE PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWBEY, Proprietor.
M
I !
fg
\BritisHi
T
m
LIGHT CAR
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
Send Your Inquiry for early delivery J
to Agents
I. PHIZACKBRLEY,
SYDNEY.
STANDARD MOTOR CO., LTD.,
Coventry, England.
Ji
A LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
Jt Sl should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
THE MOUTH THE GATEWAY for DISEASE.
Scientists have proved conclusively that no fewer
than 38 different infections may bo traced to the
human mouth as a Starting point. The mouth thus
being the gateway for the entrance of disease, it
is here that precautions are most necessary.
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes
Are the most .powerful, .safe and pleasant Germi-
cide and Antiseptic known. Being destructive to
all organisms which give rise to infectious diseases,
they keep- the mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
The Lancet (London) states: —“Their purpose is to
act as a bactericide in the mouth. This result is
likely to he gained, for in the experiments tried
Eumenthol Jujubes proved to be as effective bac-
tericidally as is creosote.”
I/O a Tin.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES
THE Mitchell Library is desirous
chasing for the State Archives 01.
diaries of, Australian Soldiers taking, p.
in the Great War. Good prices will L
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees.
W. H. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
N*
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
’ B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes o! a Dissec-
ted Lung.
D. The Lobe of » ne
of the Lhngs.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza and the Prevention of
Consumption.
Th e Red Page
Words and Evolution
-It was Henry Drummond, stumbling
through a tangle of 17th century theology
and lpth century science, who enunciated
the principle that a natural law was opera-
tive in the spiritual sphere as well as the
natural if it had anything to operate upon.
Whether the examples he furnished proved
his case or whether they were merely analo-
gies of the kind which poets have found since
the first rhythmic line sang to the cadences
of the blood, some larger science of the
future may determine —arid then again it
may not. But wdiatever may be the force
of laws of lower life when asked to operate
in the realm of mind and soul, one thing
does appear to be beyond argument. The
great law of evolution itself, the law to
which all other laws pay tribute and do
homage, does reach out beyond the animal
sphere and work towards some ideal perfec-
tion in mind as well as matter. If the de-
velopment of man’s brain has been an evolu-
tionary process, then it seems to follow natur-
ally that the development of his mind
through that brain is equally an evolution-
ary process. Further still it is possible
to go; for man’s thought, which is the
essence of his mind, is no longer tied to
the brain through which it operates, but
by means of the written word lias an exist-
ence apart from the brain, though the brain
alone can call it into activity. The greater
part of the world’s knowledge, much of the
best and sweetest thought that has passed
through the human mind and millions of
things of good repute in the field of mental
endeavor are not at the present moment in
any brain at all. Thousands of them may
find a place in no brain for a century—
for ten centuries —and yet they are real,
living and filling a peijmanent place in the
evolution of thought.
Following this plain line of reasoning, it
becomes clear that thought expressed in
the written word is the present objective of
evolution as it applies to the human being.
Here is something that, while linked with
the senses, attuned to the blood, moved by
the processes of life and thrilled by its
emotions, is yet _ beyond life and able to
live apart from life just as long as human
life runs parallel to it. The written word
is like a great mass of drifting flowers sepa-
rated from the dead plants on which they
grew and incapable of dying while there is
a living branch or seedling to which they
can attach themselves. Nature in all her
previous striving never accomplished any-
thing that could be compared with this.
Daring speculation catching here at a
glimpse of a mighty plan might run on to
a chase after the immortality of the soul
which would be as the soaring of an aero-
plane to the plodding of Plato’s ancient hack.
If the thought of man can live after man
by the aid of the simple contrivances of
ink and paper, may not the total thinking
of one man live on after him in some freer
way which will allow for greater expansion
and higher growth ? And is not the total
thinking of man his very soul?
The word that is written takes on a
strange dignity and importance in the light
of _ its practical immortality; and as the
written word is the spoken word recorded,
it is the word itself which in spite of all
praises of silence leaps to the front place
in human endeavor. What is this word that
thus stands kinging it over the mere com-
monality of deeds and actions? It is usual
to describe a word as a thought become arti-
culate, but the definition lacks something
in that inarticulate thought is practically
impossible, and that all our silent thinking
is done in words which never come to utter-
ance.
If, then, the- word is the thought and the
thought represents the finest natural pro-
cess, it becomes clear enough that just in
proportion to the height which man has at-
tained will his word become his life. It
is a reversion of a great number of state-
ments which have formed copy-book head-
ings. and helped to maintain kingships and
armies and international secret policies and
Samuel Smiles and Solomon and a great
many other-large and somewhat wise things
and people, but plain logic points to the
fact that a .man in this world is worth just
as much as his words and that his highest
business in life is saying words.
Of course, there is the distinction between
saying words and stealing words. The per-
son who repeats the sentiments of the lead-
ing article in his daily paper with the
unction of one saying a creed is outside any
reasonable discussion. Many people who
speak a great deal have never really uttered
a word in their lives ; they are mere imita-
tors of sounds. Their life is borrowed, not
lived; and as parasites of thought thev can-
not count in the scheme of things.
Taking words as the life at its highest of
man in his upward evolutionsrv develop-
ment, the writer with a pen in his hand is
seen at once in his true light. Here is the
maker of the new word, the creator of the
new thought. He may fall a very long way
short of his own desire, lisp weakly where
he would speak boldly or feel the half-formed
jewel of an idea slip from his grasp; but
in the process of evolution he stands right
at the top. It may even be that his effort
is worthier than his achievement; for he
strives against odds. His world does not
particularly want to hear new words. So
the man with a pen stands in the front rank
of evolution to be pelted with offal from
behind.
In the light of words and evolution the
word-maker is no mere aloof observer of
life, no mere recorder of deeds. He is in the
line of life itself, of progression, of victorious
struggle. The so-called man of deeds is an
anachronism, was an anachronism from the
beginning of our history. If we could bring
the ancients back, how many thousands of
pounds of our paper currency would we will-
ingly offer for the living Sophocles? Is there
anyone who would seriously offer one-and-
ninepenee to have Leonidas here, or Vould
anyone bid half a sovereign for Alexander?
Julius Caesar, for what he wrote and for what
more he might write, would be a great and
notable reinforcement to the literary effort'
of to-day: but Hannibal —you begin at once
to think of what kind of cage you could
keep him in. That backward look is a
true test —letters, words link up the ages
The pen is as sure a sign of goodwill to
men as the headless spear of the Ossianic
truce-bearer. Chaucer, Shakspeare, Milton
—we know we should feel that they were
men and brothers if they lived in this newer
age; but we could find very little use for
Edward 111. or 'Elizabeth and even Crom-
well would hardly fit unless for one golden
hour he gave his attention to a few State
Parliaments. The pen sees the sword rusted
quite away and the ink stays when the
blood is forgotten because men had modern-
sized brains 70 centuries ago; and with a
modern-sized brain the pen is the only wea-
pon of real human progress.
According to an Asiatic story, God became
God when He could speak His own name.
To speak the new thing, the beautiful thing,
to set it down in the storehouse of thought,
this is itself an ambition that has in it
elements of godliness. The writer who would
regard himself seriously belongs to a priest-
hood whose work is to keep the great altar
fire burning from age to age.
Yet in the triumph of words how should
the wheels of life turn and the world be
fed? Man has still his animal needs, and
some one must plant the potatoes and weave
the blankets. The life that lives in words
would find them a poor breakfast. I am not
quite sure that there is not a tremendous
falsehood behind that simple-seeing truism.
Words and the simple labors of life have
no quarrel. It is the suppression of words,
the enforced silences, the Substitution of
mechanical sounds for the music of voices
that have divorced men from the simplici-
ties of the soil and its harvest. All the
world can get its dinner and speak its word
too if its mind is set in the right direction,
And out of each man speaking his word, tell-
ing his brother of the thing he sees, singing
the song that is in his heart, must grow at
last the universal wisdom. For all words
are social, all true speech is altruistic in
its motive; and no man expresses himself
truthfully without helping his neighbor. You
cannot breakfast on “Macbeth” nor dine
on “Paradise Lost.” . No; but what a poor
business it,would be stuffing an animal frame
with bread and meat if these and their like
had never been written! *
D.M.W.
Can Dlalect Be Poetry?
Fred Raymond, Hilary Lofting and I. R.
Maxwell (B. 29/l/’2O) all confuse dialect
with slang. Dialect is a form of a
language spoken by all the people of a
certain .part of the country. Slang is a
debased form of a language used by the
ignorant .section of the community of the
country. There are Scottish, Irish, Somer-
set and Cumberland dialects used by all
the natives of these lands, while there are
cockney, sailor and “push” slangs used
only by classes of people. The one is the
fossilized survival of primitive language.
When Burns wrote
My heart was ance as Myth and free
As simmer days were lang,
But a bonnie Westlin’ weaver lad
Has gat me change my sang,
lie used words current in Old English speech
but which have become obsolete in modern
English. But when Dennis' sa.fs
Wimmiri! 0 strike! I orter known Hie game!
Their tricks is crook, their ’arts is all dead snide,
he is using a debased language, the offspring
of vulgarity and illiterateness. We enjoy
reading it, but not from a sense of poetry.
We get the same pleasure from its perusal
as a young man enjoys when he catches his
father cuddling the housemaid. Realistic
verse may. be fashioned by the use of such
words as “mooch” and “guyver” and “cliiv,”
but not poetry, for an essential of poetry is
beauty, and such words are an offence to
both ear and eye. Words like “maid” and
“lass” please the reader both by appearance
and sound; . but “jane” and “tom” and
“tart” can never be anything but gross.
As to the argument that the bloke and his
“jane” think in slang, I am of opinion tha-t
in thought there is no language. When one
thinks of a dog it is not the written symbol
D-O-G, nor the spoken word, that is in his
mind, but the actual, animal; when he thinks
of running, it is the action his brain pictures.
More than this, when his thought runs
to smells he sniffs unconsciously. Language
is the medium for speech or writing. In
the mental process, the actual object, action
or attribute is sensed and not the name of
it. If my argument is unsound, what
language is used in the mind of one born
deaf and dumb who has never learnt to
,read or write? He can see, smell and touch.
When he thinks of a girl, it cannot be as a
“tart” or a “diner” or a “lass” or any
other symbol. He must .think of a girl.
NATHAN F. SPIELVOGEL.
Thackeray and I
I would give at least tuppence to know
who told “C.0.M.” (B. 20/1/’2O) that I
cannot read “Bendennis.” I have read it.
Being unable to follow “C.O.M.’s” agricul-
tural similes, I am not certain whether I
am a sheep, a goat or a plain unvarnished
ass, but I can state with reasonable honesty
that I enjoyed much of the long-winded
novel. This, though, does not cause me to
amend my statement that I defy any reason-
ably-intelligent sheep, goat or ostrich to read
its 400,000 words “without being bored at
intervals for a dozen pages on end.” The
mixture of reverence and enthusiasm with
which “C.0.M.” writes of the book suggests
that he has not subjected himself to this test.
I have written in a similar strain of “The
Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire” be-
cause I have read onlv a few chapters of
it. Whenever a'person speaks with whis-
pering humbleness of Literature (employing
a capital L) it always seems to me that he
is treating it with the respect supposed to
be due to the dead, and has probably become
acquainted with it chiefly through the
medium of heavy obituary notices penned by
critics, biographers and other literary
mourners. When “C.0.M.” exclaims in doleful
accents: “Poor old Pen, poor old Major
poor, dear Laura!” one can almost see the
tears dropping into his inkwell, while with
a cr&pe-bordered handkerchief he wipes from
his dicky the berlud of the slaughtered
desperado which got there while he was
reading (and enjoying) “The Mount Marunga
Mystery ; for a person who is' so fond
ot cadavers that he makes one of literature
could not fail to appreciate a work which
(Continued on page 24.)


Gatfyayftocdemsfoje
<
J<y */
mi."' ■’ ‘
ZK
= ✓
£
V
m
V»»
4--WJ
g*
i^if
S')
m
ft
6
<&t< <
it-,
*fffrm.m....mfWnMroflnn
HE
%
%
</////
#
f
Folding Chairs.
For the Lawn, the Verandah, or Travelling’,
the ever-useful Folding Deck Chair is an ideal
companion. Anthony Horderns’ offer you Chairs
that are made by skilled specialists, ensuring
longer than usual service and consequently—a
saving of expense.
PRICES:
Folding Deck Chairs, constructed in good-quality
hardwood, with striped canvas seat of good
quality
With striped canvas seat, arms and leg
rest 11/9
ƒ
Garden Seats.
Another instance of Anthony Horderns’ excellence
of workmanship and good value. The Garden
Seats quoted here are fashioned from dependable
well-seasoned timber, and fitted to wrought-iron
legs. Strongly stayed for rigidity and durability.
Comfortably shaped, as illustrated .... 52/6
others at 35/9, 41/-, 45/6
fTTrrni MiTnrrnTrn iin i nrritms
Emnmmmr
m
GC6OI.
QUALITY FURNITURE
for Porch or Verandah.
mm
HE first glimpse of the Haven is the verandah!
It is here that one is first impressed with the character,
tastes and habits of the occupants within.
Let it be nicely furnished!
Anthony Horderns’ Quality Furniture—the product of com-
bined specialists, in the form of Chairs, Lounges, Tables and other
appointments—will add charm and distinction to the surroundings,
while rendering a service—a dependable, wear-resisting, economical
service—that will give you a deep and abiding satisfaction.
This page will assist you to visualise
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ GOOD VALUES.
z
UUUUULXXJUP
□□□□□□□□□□
A Seagrass Trio.
A light, airy three-piece • Suite in Malacca Cane and Seagrass, moulded on artistic and
restful lines. Woven in ways that ensure absolute rigidity and dependability, forming an
economical, serviceable and highly-attractive adjunct to the Home Beautiful.
Price £5/7/6
Other Good Values.
Prices of Verandah Furniture as shown at top of page are as follows:
(1) Strong and well-made Verandah Chair of specially-selected timber and tough
canvas 75/-
(2) All-Malacca Cane Lounge of great strength and well finished 38/6
(3) All-Malacca Cane Chair, nicely moulded and very comfortable 23/6
A Promise of
Real Comfort.
A big, roomy Easy Chair that carries the
imprint of restfulness in its massive de-
sign and luxurious finish. It is known
as the “Club” Easy Chair (CC6OI), made
from selected timber, well-made and
richly upholstered. Spring edge. In
approved Pegamoid or real hide. A
gentleman’s chair.
Price £lO/17/6
The “Raleigh” Easy
Chair
(as illustrated GC6OS) is another robust
and handsomely-finished Easy Chair at a
moderate price. It is a gentleman’s chair,
and will make a distinguished addition to
the well-furnished home. Finished in
Pegamoid. Price £8
A large range of Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Easy Chairs to select from.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ EFFICIENT MAIL ORDER SERVICE
No matter how far distant you reside you can obtain the
same faithful attention, careful discriminating selection
and good value as the customer in person. Furniture is
carefully packed by skilled packers and every detail
attended to, ensuring speedy and safe arrival.
gf
Dainty Little Tables.
in a range of attractive designs. The illustration
depicts a strong, well-built MALACCA CANE and
SEAGRASS TABLE. It is 27 x 18 inches: the
top and shelf being covered with fine matting. In
keeping with other lines of Seagrass Furniture,
this represents splendid value. Price .... 19/6
The “Squatter” Chair.
A book—a shady nook —and a “Squatter” Chair.
With arm-rest, head-rest, leg-rest, it is the acme
of perfect rest. Made in good-quality pine, wal-
nut finished. Strong- canvas. Price 42/-
m
GC6OS.
Ltd.
Only* Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
005 Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Keep
a
Kodak
Album
m.
■
Wi
Wm
1
■
In every page of a photographer’s album of Kodak and Brownie snapshots there’s
a story of interesting incidents and happy times. Between the covers there’s a tale
of cheery pictures that represent joy in their making and mean still more happi-
ness in living over those care-free days.
Every succeeding year will make the pictures more precious, so begin now to make a Kodak Album. There
are Austral-Kodak Albums—made in Australia—which will supply the amateur with just what he wants. To
make splendid pictures, begin photography in the Kodak way—an easy method of filling an album. There
are Kodaks and Brownies to suit all requirements in price, size and equipment.
SOME POPULAR MODELS:—
THE No. 2C AUTOGRAPHIC KODAK JUNlOR. —Reliable and compact. Makes the new small post-card size pictures 2-1- x 4J
inches. Price £5.
THE No. 3A AUTOGRAPHIC KODAK JUNIOR. —An excellently equipped model, which takes the full-sized post-card pictures
Price £5/5/-
Other Kodaks range in price from 47/6 to £lB. Brownies —simple and popular—from 12/6 upwards.
You can get an illustrated catalogue from your nearest Kodak dealer or from
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne ; 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane ;
The Valley; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba;
Flinders Street, Townsville; Denham Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth;
“The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
“CHAMPION” Road Sweepers and Road-watering Vehicles
are Best Fitted to Meet all Local Conditions and Requirements.
'
m
FIG. 585.—“ CHAMPION” ONE-HORSE ROAD-SWEEPER.
595. —“CHAMPION” two-wheel Road-watering Vehicle with
Driver’s seat and Model F Water-spreader. J
Model C
Write to-day for Free
Leaflets and Practical
advice.
That is because they are made
in Australia—embodying improve-
ments that have been found most
essential by experts who have given
Australian conditions careful study
in their years of practical experience.
In building “CHAMPION” implements, too, the best
materials the world can produce are used, and the
various parts—assembled by competent mechanics—are
mechanically perfect and reliable, showing their real
worth in the years of satisfactory service they give with
least expense for upkeep.
The “CHAMPION” One-horse Road-Sweeper
has a sweeping capacity of 14,000 super
yards per hour.
Read what users say of it:—
The Engineer, North Sydney Council, writes as follows:
“The Horse Road-sweeper we purchased from you some time ago has
proved very satisfactory in its working, and I am quite satisfied with it.”
The Town Clerk, Yass, N.S.W., writes as follows:
“The Road-sweeper has given every satisfaction, and we can thoroughly
reeommend it to any Council requiring an efficient machine for road-
sweeping purposes.”
"Champion” Road Sweepers are used in the leading cities and towns of Aus-
tralia. Write for list 6, which gives full information.
“CHAMPION” Road-watering Vehicles have
Improved Water-spreading Appliances.
The most convincing evidence of what “CHAMPION” Road-watering Vehicles will
do is the record of what they have done.
In this we find the reason
implicitly in “CHAMPION”
why Municipal Councils the country over believe
Road-watering Vehicles.
Years of successful performance under most trying conditions provide some
evidence of the.r work. The products of Australian experience, they embody the
latest improvements—which stand for greater efficiency, longer life and greater
service from the “Champion” Vehicle you select.
A well-illustrated booklet will be sent on request to give you full details.
Write for List No. 7.
British-Australian Machinery Co. Ltd.
Wynyard Street, Sydney. Union Bank Chambers, Brisbane. Collins House, Melbourne


For Bad Breath
Those who find their
breath bad in the morning; a
bad taste in the mouth and a
furred tongue, will find Pink-
ettes—the new laxative—
an excellent remedy. They
correct the stomach condi-
tions which cause symptoms;
regulate the liver and remove
constipation. Pinkettes act
without causing sickness or
griping, or after effects of
strong purgatives.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.'
The Or. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Where to Stay when Visiting Sydney
Cronulla Beach Hotel.
Direction Cronulla Hotel, Ltd.
Healthy, Invigorating; SURFING Resort.
Tel., Kogarah 19. Week-ends a Specialty.
J. A. GRANT, Manager.
Hotel c/e Luxe ,
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS, surrounded by NATURAL
BUSH.
25 NEW BEDROOMS built over the water—
every room looking out to the Heads.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to (lie Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from Mos-
man. Amphitheatre Swimming
Baths. Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Tariff from 12/6 per day or
£3/10/- per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
Mil
I
M.
BULL DOC
CRIP
sTHE SELF VULCAHIZIKG,
PATCH
'VILL REPAIR v
ANV SIZE PJNCTURE
BLOWOUT OR TORN PLACE
OBTAINABLE AT ALL OARAGES
PRODUCED ENTIRELY
IN AUSTRALIA.
fen* leti
Iil;|: : tiesttffre i*
''stktr : u? : if
ƒ
g
f
Alims
or
mMQm
WAHiIT
g
BOSTOCK’S—THE ECONOMY SHOE POLISH
We wish to stress the fact that ECONOMY is oue of the chief attributes of
Uostock Shoe Dressings. It is economical by virtue of the fact that it is more
than a mere polish.
Containing, as it does, ingredients which nourish and preserve the leather, it gives
longer life to footwear.
With the cost of shoes mounting
higher and higher, the daily use
of Bostock’s, with its leather-
preserving qualities, is particu-
larly desirable.
the sign or
AGOOD SHINE
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark
Brown, Ox Blood and White.
In Tins, Bottles and Tubes.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes,
. . SYDNEY. .
A trade-mark on a pipe signifies the maker s
nfidence in his product —else he would not
brand it. During more than 50 years the
GB D trade-mark shown above has been
favorably known in Australia.
Ask for the GB D —the BRITISH Pipe.
Many popular shapes.
On sale everywhere.
I
M®Tnn««Du™
%
n
3
B
dry cin
Bottled 12 DEGREES
STRONGER than the mini-
mum permitted by the Spirits
Act. Government Guaranteed
{ ALL hotels and licensed grocers- ,
For All
Animals.
vJ
HANG THEM
BY THE
LOOP.
/
Salt licks
At all Storekeepers, Produce Merchants,' Saddlers 8 Blacksmiths.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Glen.
I would be free now, to wander through
the glen
Ou the small, narrow pathway that slips
into the sea.
I would have it evening and you to be
with me.
And the low shrubs a-quiver with tit and
singing wren.
I would have no cover from the wind upon
my hair,
And nothing but the sweet air to wind
about my throat.
A sleepy yellow-hammer would be piping
his one note,
And the tide would be at ebb, and the brown
rocks bare.
I would see the white moon put on her hood
of gold,
And the pines change suddenly from green
to plumy black.
The scent of crushed lantana would mark
the winding track,
And the spume unseen would touch us and
leave our faces cold.
I would roam the glen now and the moon
riding high,
And a little breeze whimpering and stir-
ring in its sleep,
Till hearing us a-murmur it ceased at last
to weep
And sank again to slumber with a faint,
leafy sigh.
I would be free now to wander through the
glen
On the small, narrow pathway that slips
into the sea.
I would have it evening and you to be
with me
And nothing 1 'ft to long for in the whole
world then !
N.S.W.
NINA MURDOCH.
The Hermit.
1.0, I have built my nest
Far in the wilderness,
Just as I dreamed I should
Through desert days;
There my boat nods at rest,
Where sands and sea caress,
Banks where the starlings brood,
Murmur or praise.
Left by the fickle ebb,
Left to the seagulls’ scorn,
Butt of ungainly shags
Croaking disdain,
Stabbed by the bittern’s neb,
Orphaned, to ribbons torn,
Plaintive the river flags,
Mourning the main.
But .soon the dreaming tide,
Waked to remorseless haste.
Leaping the mangrove banks
To the full flux.
Swells new the river’s pride,
Robes rush and raupo waste,
Thrilling to sated thanks
Frogs, swan and ducks.
Find you the breeze unkind.
Sharp-toothed from Tasman’s sea?
Into the garden then,
Ti-tree enhedged ;
Rosed wall and trellis vined,
Fragrance of flower and tree —•
Birds find it Eden when
Fledging or fledged.
This is my cabin near —
Earth-walled, embowered doors,
Ivied without and thatched,
Russet and warm:
Books, harp and fishing gear,
Desk, bridle, sail and oars- —
Lovely and useful matched
In simplest form.
Perfect my Paradise?
Nay, in the budding rose
Lips that were my desire
Breathe vain regret:
Dear, unborn children’s eyes
Pansy and bell disclose.
Thro’ wind and wave in choir
Babes laugh or fret.
Peace? Nay! In solitude
Fish, bird : that pair,
Cloud, pregnant tide and wood
As to one plan
One-voiced, tnough multitude,
God’s primal law declare:
Thou shalt not find thv good
Mateless, O man !
MAOMI.AKI).
BLACK WATCH.
Palette Girl.
Take m your pretty peal of wonder-bells;
Ring in with yellow all our golden days;
Let the blues chime of wind-swept ocean
ways;
With green, wake music of a kind which
tells
Of emerald elves we knew in tree-dim dells:
Clang out with reds in one tremendous phrase
Our passion-moments; limn each rapturous
phase—
Frail little hand which weaves such magic
spells.
Cunningly let the white brush catch and
glide; .
Speak to my heart, with words of rose and
pearl,
Until I see again the light which shone
When Hope’s demesne was stretching bright
and wide;
So on my Life’s dull background deftly hurl
The glowing notes of Love’s high carillon.
N.S.W.
BOYCE BOWDEN.


“Alfred Herbert” No. 9 Combination Turret Lathe
f
ƒ
has universally proved its very high standard of efficiency by its extensive use in
the production of Aero Engines.
The rotary type of aeroplane engine must necessarily be accurately balanced, since
the whole engine revolves at a very high speed. The fact that most of the work is
slender necessitates machining to very fine limits indeed. These limits are accurately
produced, and referring to the illustration shows you the machining operation on one
of the cylinders.
“ALFRED HERBERT” Vertical Milling
Machine.
“LODGE & SHIPLEY” Bin. and 10 U in.
High-speed Lathes.
“WILLARD” Tool-room Lathe with taper-
turning attachment.
“ALFRED HERBERT” Universal Tool and
Cutter Grinder.
POLLARD’S “CORONA” Drilling Machines,
including High-speed Radial, Sensitive
and Heavy-duty.
Large stocks are maintained of the most-generally-used sizes of a comprehensive line
of small tools and grinding wheels.
CHAS E. YOUNG
Sole Ag'ent for
ALFRED HERBERT LTD.
Machine Tool Makers and Importers# Coventry, England,
Telephon s: City lOllO.
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Lathe/’ Sydney.
Codes Used: Lieber’s, Western Union and Private.
57 GEORGE STREET NORTH, CIRCULAR OUAY, SYDNEY.
The Popular Shilling Tooth Paste
Cleans the teeth without' scratching
the breath;bardens the gums
MA
D
IN
Australia
r
mgmmm
gf
f If your chemisf’ or storekeeper
cannor supply, send 1/3 in stomps
h> Rocke ,Tompsitt£ Co. Melbourne.
IliiiiH'..!
9*
es
NET
02
I
s
dfg
Inviting Tastes
You Never Tire of.
Rich, appetising meaty tastes because every
t ing that goes into the making of these “Rex”
Pates is chosen for quality and flavor. The
wholesome meats and spices are seasoned and
cooked in a masterly way to suit the most critical
taste.
“Rex” Ham Pate
AND
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate
are all meat, all Australian. They lend them-
se ves to dozens of new ways of making invi ing,
wholesome sandwiches, for school and business
lunches, afternoon teas and suppers, picnics,
par.ies, and all other occasions.
ASK For “REX” PATES at YOUR GROCERS
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD .
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon.
J. 1211
THORNES
O.H.lVl."lncomparable WHISKY.
For nearly a century this inimitable
spirit has been produced at Glenlivet
—traditional home of Scotland’s best.
Pure malt, perfect distilling and fault-
less blending unite in a liquor of
unvarying mellow flavor that ever
appeals to the connoisseur.
The most exacting demands of whisky quality
are fulfilled by this satisfying and enjoyable
beverage. Call for Thorne’s next time and
judge it for yourself.
A superior Deverage that
delights the most exacting.
A reliable medicinal
liqueur—valuable for its
richness in higher ethers.
MARTELL’S
Fine
Old Cognac
BRANDY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 41. —No. 2089.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1920.
Price On.
THE BILL.
BOTH OF THEM: “Here you are, sir, here’s the menu; and if there’s anything you can’t see just mention it.”
THE OTHER ONE: “Well, how am I going to pay for it? That’s what I can’t see.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man."
Printed and published by William Macleod. of
Mnsgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS! TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to ant
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, pOSt paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bui
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it <"ill be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Tim Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand 'hat it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and WL’te.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin ariginal
humorous or other topical drawings in line o> wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted *or
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistie contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and IK. Daivson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.I/:
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.I/.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; International House,
It Kerk Street, Johannesburg ; Havana House. Durban,
and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., l/’/l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Boston Hat Works, Eighth Avenue,
West Calgary, Canada.
U.9.A. —-V. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
cornet Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; J.
Roland Kay Co., 181/9 Conway Buildings, Chicago,
V.S.A.; Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington,
U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth Avenue and 21th Street, New
York; Queen City News Co., Randolph and Clark
Streets, Chicago; Golden Gate News Agency, 119
Market Street, Chicago; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher Neivs Agency, 163 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. —lK. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., S Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samaria and Kulamadan
and Port Moresby.
Fiji. —A Barker, Suva: F. Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth. Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10ot., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 16m.,
l\d. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise; Bm., lid.; Bioz. to 10oz., Sd.;
lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, !/oz., lid., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1920.
IF PREMIERS WERE ELECTED BY
THE PEOPLE.
The Prime Minister proposes that there
shall be a Convention next year for the
revision of the Federal Constitution in the
light of 20 years’ experience; and it should
be a big event. There are many things which
require revision in the light of 20 years’
experience, and many more that were so
patently absurd even in 1901 that no light
was required. A reconstruction of the
Federal Constitution might not only be good
in itself; it might also show the way for a
complete overhaul of the State arrange-
ments. Among the matters which call
urgently for attention are these: —
(1) The subdivision of the Commonwealth into
more manageable States —perhaps 15 of them, with
provision for further subdividing on simple prin-
ciples. This would involve the abolition of that
disastrous clause No. 128, engineered by Georgf.
Reid, the man who did everything wrong, which
prevents a State being subdivided except with the
consent of a majority voting at a referendum. This
means, of course, that no outlying place can set up
for itself save with the assent of the overgrown
metropolis and its environs, and they can’t be expected
to pass condemnation on their own greedy monopoly,
which is exactly the thing complained of. If this
law had been in force last century neither Queens-
land nor Victoria, nor even Tasmania, would have
got away when they did. Still, Victoria, when its
population was suddenly swelled by the gold rush,
might have shifted the capital of Australia to Mel-
bourne ; and then for 30 years it might have been
N. S. Wales which vainly struggled to get away.
(2) The transfer of the railways to the Com-
monwealth with instructions to establish a uniform
gauge, provided airships don’t make railways super-
fluous very soon. Otherwise State control and sub-
division might lead to there being seven different
managements between Brisbane and Adelaide, which
would be even worse than the present chaos. It would
be equally impossible to satisfactorily subdivide the
railway debts. The ultimate alternative to Federal
railway ownership is private-company ownership, so
that one syndicate can control the line and unify
the gauge from Adelaide to Brisbane and beyond;
and that isn’t an alternative to be viewed with
equanimity.
(3) The transfer to the Commonwealth of the
State debts, which must necessarily go with the
assets that represent them. States with railway debts
and no railways would be unspeakably bankrupt.
(4) The abolition of State borrowing powers. The
States would have little save unproductive works to
borrow for when their railway business ended, and
in any case it would be a crazy policy to relieve
them of their debts merely that they might contract
new ones.
(f>) The abolition of that stupid and crooked and
dishonest Federal capital clause which disqualifies
all except the Old Nark State as a site for the Aus-
tralian metropolis.
(0) A complete revision of the system of creating
Ministries, which confines the choice to a very small
percentage of the community and one which groivs
smaller year by year, and also limits it more and
more to a section of small experience and of small
capacity.
The sixth proposition deals with a glaring
folly which is even more prominent in State
than in Federal affairs. The idea that port-
folio-holding should be a monopoly of elected
persons is purely English and is neither old
English nor democratic English. It i.sn r t
even logical English. It developed slowly
and haphazard because George I. was too
German to speak English and too stupid to
understand British politics; also he didn’t
think he would keep his job long enough to
matter. So his chief Minister put “Prime”
before his title and began the process of
allotting the portfolios among his friends,
and dividing them among Parliamenteers,
regardless of their capacity, in return for
their votes, he being a Parliamenteer him-
self. It was an aristocratic arrangement, and
the idea of a man of no title profiting there-
by was hardly more in the original scheme
of things than the idea of a dog becoming
Treasurer. Britain has 707 members of the
Commons, and presuming them to be divided
on a strict two-party system there can’t be
less than 354 members out of whom to select
the 16 Commoners who on an average sat
in the Cabinet in pre-war days. The five
peers were chosen from about 700. There
was a fairly wide range of choice, yet the
results were only moderate. When the war
created a sudden and furious demand for
men with actual—not conversational or
eloquential—knowledge of a multitude of
things, the results were very bad. In fact,
the system broke down. In N. S. Wales,
where there are 90 members in the Lower
House, and the Government following must
be at least 46, and a Premier puts 10 of
them in the Cabinet, the selection is more
Hobson’s than Holman’s. It was limited
enough when there were 141 members in
the Assembly, and only two parties, and 7L
was the Premier's minimum following, out
of whom he selected eight. But it is worse
now. Yet with the multiplication of Gov-
ernment activities a wider choice is required
than ever. In a Federal House of Reps.,
where there are 75 members and 38 is the
number required to keep a Government in
office—eight Cabinet Ministers and 30 odds
and ends—any attempt to pick a capable
team is a shrieking absurdity. There is
not among the 38 otic man who is present
and available because he is a brilliant
financier fit to run the Treasury, or a bril-
liant engineer to superintend Works, or a
high-grade expert in commerce and manu-
factures to take charge of Trade and Cus-
toms, or a highly capable lawyer to keep the
Ministry from falling into expensive pits.
It isn’t worth while to elect a brilliant
financier even if the electors knew one was
wanted and knew one on sight, seeing that
he may moulder for years in Opposition
listening to .small-beer chronicles, and when
his party attains power he may be shut
out through caucus jealousy or pitch-
forked by way of a jest into the
Territories job to consider strikes and
snakes and nodules in beef. Besides,
no financier worth his salt—the kind
who can get a life job worth perhaps
£5OOO a year for doing the only kind of
work he knows and likes —applies for a
billet at £6OO a year with one chance in
10 of getting the position he is fitted for
and nine chances in 10 of merely serving a
dull, purposeless apprenticeship among
dusty little jobs that are quite alien to him.
»So there are only poor mediocrities to choose
from, and they have grown poorer of late
when caucus and pre-selection devices made
it essential for the candidate not only to
submit his case to the people but to submit
it in advance to a little crowd of busy-
bodies, largely self-appointed, and, previous
to being considered by them, to swear away
his right as a citizen to stand if they turn
him down. Even moderately big men got
tired of the game when the entrance fee
came to include being politically undressed
in a cellar and inspected for spots and birth-
marks. Finally the methods adopted by
the Labor party in particular have made
mediocrity still more mediocre. Most of
its leading men in recent years gave up any
serious attention to their trades or busi-
nesses very young to start the weary pil-
grimage of oratory, party organisation,
service as delegate to trades-union con-
gresses, trades-union secretaryship and so
on, and only arrived at the humble top of
things when they had forgotten what little
carpentry or other real work they ever
knew. Ministers are wretchedly paid, the
man who runs the finance of a continent
getting no more than some branch bank-
managers, but they are often paid more than
they are worth. Yet even if the salary
of the most responsible Ministers was
£15.000 or £20.000 a year it would probably
attract no better men, though it would
make more furious competition among
worse men. The position is too pi’ecarious;
the way to it is long and dusty ; the com-
pany is unpleasant; and to enter in the
competition means the putting aside of too
many ambitions.
* * * *
The United States of America has always
worked on the simple principle that every-
body inside Parliament is disqualified for
Ministerial office and every male elector
outside is eligible. There are some slight
age and residence qualifications, hut every
►lector can get over them unless he dies
young and inexperienced. The system was
adopted out of horror at the English
methods- —our methods. Ministers are shut
out of Parliament for the same reason as
Judges—on the ground that theirs is a
separate job. The President, who is also
shut out of Parliament, is elected by the
people and is responsible to them to the
extent of impeachment, as happened in
Johnson’s ease, for the divine right of
Presidents is not recognised. He appoints
Ministers and is responsible for them. The
plan could not be worked in Australia by
the substitution of the Governor-General for
the President, for the Governor-General is
an imported nominee answerable for his
political acts to nobody in this continent.
But if the Federal Prime Minister or the
State Premier was an elected person, aged
not less than 35 years, qualified by seven
years’ residence, and fixed for a term, the
choice of Ministers might be left to him
on the U.S. basis. Then, instead of a Prime
Minister having as few as 38 possible can-
didates to choose from, he would have
1,038,000, even allowing for a reasonable age
and residence condition. When he wanted
a Minister for Works he could offer John
Monash the position without the impossible
terms that that eminent engineer and leader
of men should wait for a general election
and then put up his name with the selection
committee at Port Melbourne and abide
the result, or the still more impossible con-
dition that he should have done that sort
of thing ten years ago and stuck to politics
ever since and never had a eliance to be
eminent. When the Prime Minister-
President wanted a Treasurer he could ask
Denison Miller of the Commonwealth
Bank if he would care for the business.
When a Postmaster-General was required
there are probably 100 capable men in the
Post Office who know the work from A to
Z, and one of them might be willing
to resign from the civil service and take the
portfolio. Then the Prime Minister
wouldn’t be driven to depend on Webster,
stonemason. Stonemasonry isn’t a mere
animal-of-burden and dead-end business
like wharf lumping, where there is no pro-
motion unless a man rises to be a steam-
crane. In fact, it is an honorable occupa-
tion and a genius may develop from it to
be a Phidias or a Michael Angelo or a
Christopher Wren. But it is no training
for a Postmaster-General. Yet it is because
of their qualifications as stonemasons or
boilermakers, and their ignorance of other
things, that people like Webster, being
bona fide Laborites, are started on the road
which leads them to a virtual monopoly of
highly technical and highly-scientific em-
ployments, where they do strange, well-
meant antics with the people’s property.
The United States system supplies a
remedy, and its method is really almost as
old as the British one, slavishly copied in
Australia. Switzerland tries to combine the
two, making the member who becomes a
Minister retire from Parliament, and
making both members and non-members
eligible as Ministers. Unfortunately in
practice hardly any save members are
appointed. The elected Websters see no
advantage in sharing the portfolios with the
nation at Free.
THE MAN AND THE MOB.
The true keynote of any sort of effective
socialism is individualism. The unit ,of
society is a man; and any theory built on
the supposition that good society can be com-
posed of bad men is bound to go to pieces in
the test. In the first stages of human evolu-
tion there can be little doubt that a number
of very inferior men banded themselves
together for mutual protection ; but that
man-pack did not hunt an hour in the open
forest without finding its leader. It did
not hunt a week before discovering that a
great deal depended on the quality of that
leader; and when it met the first rival man-
pack it added the sure knowledge that to
the importance of leadership must be added
the importance of every individual follower.
Without a good leader the pack was sure
to go to pieces ; even with the best of leaders
a poor pack could hardly hope to hold its
own. So the primitive organisation was
not so much an arrangement to safeguard
the weakling as an arrangement by which
the weakling should be forced to develop
into something else. Every great tyranny
that arose was at first an attempt to rely
too greatly on organisation by leaving tribal
matters in a single hand or in the hands
of a chosen few; every effort towards libera-
tion was a struggle to get the rights of each
individual recognised. Democracy is based
upon individualism, which is another name for
human freedom; and all autocracies are
based upon the idea that a nation of men
can be treated its a mass, and that the State
is itself a unit in human endeavor. Every
man clings against all else to his desire for
personal liberty; and every man in the mass
of men has at all times chafed at the
restrictions imposed upon him by the weight
of man about him. The only room for
liberty appeared to he at the top where, in
taking the liberty from all others, a real
individualism might develop. Men fought
hard with clubs and dinosaurus thigh-bones
for the leadership of the man-pack that their
individualism might have free play; and ever
since the desire of some sort of kingship has
been striven for with the same motive. Few
have ever really fought for the right to accept
the burden of rule ; but many in all the
ages have struggled for the top-dogship
which would take orders from no man. To-
day the desire to be a millionaire, a union
boss or a member of a party executive is
in line with all the attempts of the past
to be leaders of the pack or king of the
nation. And all these attempts, in the light
of human evolution, have meant the progress
of the race, though their too great success
has in the end helped to retard it. To
gain absolute freedom and assert his indivi-
duality to the full, a man must become king
of the world ; and as there could not possibly
be more kings than one of the world, full
freedom is impossible save to one individual.
Only Adam achieved that dignity; and he
found himself so tangled between Eve and
theology that his case has no historical value.
*****
At the two extremes of the human scale
are kings and slaves. In all forms of gov-
eminent hitherto invented, the great bulk
of mankind is held in some sort of.slavery.
A despotism and an alleged democracy are
in actual practice very much the same thing
to the people who find themselves hedged
about on every side by rule and law, who.
by force of circumstances, which they cannot
control, are obliged to undertake unwilling
tasks, and who must live narrower and less
eventful lives than would be theirs from
choice. The facts that one man cheers at
the passing of an emperor’s chariot and the
other yells himself hoarse because his can-
didate has won an election have very little
to do with the day’s work and com-
paratively little to do with the con-
dition of the dinner-table. Even repub-
lics are capable of petty social coer-
cion which a despotism would never exercise;
and some despotisms have reached out a
kindly hand to encourage the sweet and
wholesome things of life in a manner un-
known to the democratic State. In the main
it may be said that an elected democratic
Government can he no better than the con-
flicting mass of opinion in the State will
allow it to be, and that the worst autocracy
can be no worse than the great mass of
the people’s thought will tolerate. It was
Ciiuang Tzu, tiie ancient Chinese sage, who
declared “There is such a thing as leaving
mankind alone; there has never been such
a thing as governing mankind.” Two thou-
sand years of additional commentary on his
remarks seems only to give them a sharper
point. Allowing that all attempts to govern
men have at all times been a failure, and
that the very terms “govern” and “govern-
ment” are a perpetual insult to the human
mind, a sound plea for anarchy is sail not
established. To get rid of the present notion
of government altogether is not to get rid
of the need for human organisation; and
an organisation should be possible, and is
possible, in which both kingship and demo-
cracy have full play. The day of the hunt-
ing man-pack is long past, and the efforts
to restore it under tli-e name of 0.8. U. or
anything else must fail. While the world’s
governments have been rising and falling,
mankind has been making progress of
another sort in spite of them. A bigger
kindliness, a wider tolerance and a
surer faith in his neighbor are the outstand-
ing marks of that development. Nine-tenths
of the population of any civilised country
lives all its life without coming in contact
with the policeman, as either accuser or
accused; and of the remaining one-tenth
more than two-thirds meet the policeman
only because of legal restrictions of one sort
or another that do not matter ninepenee to
the community. So life need no longer be
lived purely on the defensive; and the hunt
for the means of livelihood is not the mad
and maddening thing it once was. Genuine
human organisation must take account of
this change; and its true business should
be the removing of restrictions, not their
further elaboration. The man is much more
important than any Government; for if a
fair comparison be made it is a pretty bad
man who is not inherently better in both
intention and practice than the best Gov-
ernment. Further, the effort after king-
ship which marked the struggles of the past
and which even now marks the struggles in
the fields of politics and commerce is cap-
able of reaching a kind of fulfilment which
embraces all that was worth while in the
original aim. It is possible for every man.
independently of Governments and restric-
tions, to be a king. The realm of thought
is so much higher than the realm of killing
and eating that entire power and freedom
there is a thing more to be desired than
power and freedom of will in the lower
places. The individualism of thought is the
thing that really counts most in the pro-
gress of man. Make that right and the
lesser things fall naturally into their places.
The organisation of mankind, of the State
and of the nation in such a way that the
real individualism has freest scope is more
than all Governments or unions or courts.
* * * ' *
Of course, it must be fairly admitted that
the great bulk of the people—and Austra-
lians are no exceptions to the general rule-—-
have not yet reached the thinking stage.
They are still in the mental servitude which
repeats creeds and catchwords —mere fol-
lowers of the pack trailing after the noisiest
leaders, though occasionally yelping at those
leaders and changing them when the scent
seems cold. No political party wants its
rank and file to think, because its leaders
would cease to be in the lead the moment it
began to do so. The Labor party even goes
the length at times of driving out from its
ranks any who assert the right to hold an
opinion differing from that of those who
have made most noise at its various con-
ferences. The party leaders think of the
people as a mass, organise them as a mass
without, giving room for any diversity of
view; and in doing so they rob political
movements of all the solid basis of indivi-
dual conviction and enthusiasm. Each fac-
tion, big or little, has a few’ Czars or Sul-
tans at its head ; and under the guise of
democracy the shallow-rooted autocracies
flourish. The people having the power to
tear them up from the soil where they have
planted themselves believe that they hold
the keys of democracy; but while the system
remains unchanged one autocracy merely
replaces another, and the patch of alleged
progress crooks and winds upon itself with-
out getting anywhere. The average worker
is bossed by a union, by a council of unions,
by his political party, by the State, hv the
Federation, by the British Empire and per-
haps even by the League of Nations. Poli-
tically, his individualism has no chance to
assert itself except in the choice between a
couple of candidates at an election. Gener-
ally his opinion of the candidates is that
one is worth about fourpence and the other
one and ninepenee; but he must support his
choice or go without even that semblance of
citizen authority. Yet the proposals for
reform put forward are all in the nature
of what is caller closer organYation —•
schemes to give few and ever fewer men the
right to order the thoughts of others.
* * * *
As the blind faith in the mass —wir'ch
really means a blind faith in blinder leaders
—grows the sense of individual responsi-
bility becomes less and less. Where there is
no room to think there can lie no good
gained by worrying. The individual does
not worry. His sav in things is so small
that it is not worth while trving even to
find out what- is haopening. He trusts
the union will act for him. or, failing t 1 ’™'
the State, or. if it comes to a last r.'sort,


perhaps Providence or luck or Tattersall s
sweep. He falls easily, into a land of
mental slavery, only getting up atelection
times to dance a break-down m his chains
and cheer for the resumption of his servi-
tude. Yet occasionally lie has a dream
that things are wrong, and to easehis soul
uses a little strong language about the party
—any party—that may happen to be in
power. In that dream lies the great hope.
Discontent is the mother of all progress.
It is up to every Australian to be discon-
tented and to give some honest thought to
the problems of the nation. Whether lie
trusts the union or the State to act for him
or not, the individual responsibility of every
citizen remains. There is not one outstand-
ing evil in this continent that its citizens
could not remedy in one stirring and tre-
mendous year. If the machinery is not
there the people could make it and they are
responsible for not making it. A so-called
leader easily sidesteps a leader’s responsi-
bility by resigning; but a citizen cannot
resign. He must see his job through to
the -end or loaf on it to the end ; and each
citizen stands absolutely alone to bear the
final responsibility. An old divine declared
that God’s only way of saving mankind was
to save it a man at a time. The only way
known to God or man. of saving Australia is
to awaken its citizens one at a time to the
full responsibility of their individual citi-
zenship. ___________
THE COCKY IN POLITICS.
Now that at long last the N. S. Wales
Farmers and Settlers’ party has decided
to plough its own furrow, it should be inter-
esting to recall the very gradual evolution
of the cocky politically. ’Way back in the
early ’nineties the writer organised in a
thinly-populated district one of the first
branches, if not the first, of the Farmers
and Settlers’ Association in the Far Nor’-
West. With the enthusiasm of youth he
used to ride 20 miles to the township to
attend meetings, with his minute-book, etc.,
strapped to the pommel of his saddle. In
those days the I'. and S. Association was
almost confined to the Southern districts,
and the members were for th.e greater part
small wheat-cockies who met to damn the
Ilaihvay Commissioners and wrangle over
the eternal bag question.
The Nor’-Western cockies were mostly men
who had pushed out to take up land in
larger areas for grazing purposes, and con-
sequently found themselves up against the
big lessees and the powerful institutions
which financed them. The constant fights
they had to put up against the efforts of
the squatters to keep their huge sheep-runs
intact, and against the political conspiracy
to prevent the Central leases being thrown
open for selection, prompted the little men to
organise in self-defence. One of the difficul-
ties of a new branch was to keep out the
middleman and the squatters’ emissaries who
sought to join the association for the pur-
pose of wrecking it, or, failing that, of guid-
ing it into a course harmless to their
interests. The Southern cocky who grew
wheat and forage, and who in droughty times
was of use to the squatter in helping to save
his flocks, was tolerated in a patronising
spirit; but in the north-west of the Central
division, where most of the cockies selected
maximum blocks of 2560 acres, they scorned
to produce “garden stuff,” and devoted their
attention to wool-growing, thus coming into
direct competition with the big lessees;
wherefore they were anthema.
Then, as now, the attitude of the two old
political parties, the alleged Freetraders and
the alleged Protectionists, one led by Pakkes
and the other by Dibbs, was the attitude of
the big dog with the bone towards the poodle
hovering near it. The cocky was a good,
deserving fellow so long as he kept at a
distance. Politics, it was explained, no one
could understand unless he was inside the
ring—least of all the cocky, whose proper
business was to sweat from jackass to jackass
to produce, produce, produce, leaving the
politicians who understood the job to appor-
tion the plunder. Among the Southern
cockies the same arguments were used when-
ever the subject of including politics in their
organisation was brought up at a meeting.
Every branch of the F.S.A. sheltered some of
the politicians’ heelers, who could always
be depended upon, especially at election
time, to do a lot of good with a little cash
and expend a lot of eloquence among waver-
ing cockies, who allowed themselves to be
scared into silence by that useful bogey of
letting the Labor party in on the split vote.
The question of obtaining adequate poli-
tical representation was given its first lift
by the land scandals in 1905. when huge
areas of first-class country which would have
afforded a living for thousands of selectors
were converted into improvement leases and
secured by the big lessees through bribery.
Financial institutions also received huge
bonuses in the shape of a reduction of interest
on all c.p. lands from 4 per cent, to 2| per
cent. —a reduction granted by the Crick
administration “in the interests of selec-
tors,” though their lands had long since
passed into the hands of banks and mortgage
cos. Speaking to an M.L.A. shortly after
this was done, I inquired why this Act went
through without protest. The reply told the
ivhole tale: “Nick Willis is about the only
man in the House who knows anything about
land, and as he supported it we naturally
thought it was all right.”
About this time cockies with sons seeking
land began thinking it would be advisable to
put men in the House who would be able
to discern the grinning features of the land-
monopolist stalking the Treasury behind the
shield of the “poor selector.” In spite of
many spasmodic attempts among the cockies
to agree upon the question of political re-
presentation. no serious attempt was, how-
ever, made until 1913, when a few enthusi-
asts got together and circularised them on
the question of forming a distinct country
party. By dint of much hard work 70 dele-
gates with their friends and sympathisers
were enticed to Sydney, where they were
invited by the Farmer and Settler
newspaper to a banquet in the Town Flail
vestibule on July 4, 1913, to celebrate the
inauguration of the Country Party Associa-
tion and the opening of the first C.P.A. Con-
gress. The congress of delegates met the
following day and sat for four days prepar-
ing a fighting platform. At the same time
tlm Farmers and Settlers’ Association was
holding its annual conference in Sydney. At
several previous conferences of the F.S.A.
the question of forming a party had been
vigorously debated, but the old Liberal ele-
ment had always managed to sidetrack it.
Feeling ran high on this question, as a large
proportion of the members of the F.S.A.
were also members of the C.P.A., and threat-
ened to desert the former if the motion for
direct representation was not carried. The
threatened split was so serious that it was
only saved by Mr. Charles Wade promis-
ing to create a Country party within the
Liberal party, by which, as he fc afterwards
boasted, he dished the rebels, and the old
Liberal executive was again elected. Never-
theless, the honor of making tne first prac-
tical effort to obtain the direct Parliamentary
representation of farmers by farmers remains
with the old Country Party Association.
In spite of the bitter opposition of the
metropolitan daily press, which wanted, as
usual, to keep the ring clear for the old
parties with their vested interests in the mis-
government of the country, the C.P.A.
insisted upon butting in at the 1913 election.
It was no easy task to find candidates to
fight on behalf of a party that had no
machine to aid them, and no cash for print-
ing and propaganda save the small amount
subscribed by the farmers themselves. Still
a few enthusiasts entered the unequal fight,
but they had little chance against the two
powerful organisations arrayed against them.
Then, as now, the old game of scaring the
waverers by the “don’t split the vote” bogey
was played for all it was worth. The
present writer, who steered a candidate
around the electorate at his own expense,
was told hundreds of times by Mr. Cocky :
“I’m with the party up to the hilt, and
would vote for your man if there was any
chance of him getting in; but the Labor
party,” etc., etc. The idiots wouldn’t see
that no candidate would have a chance of
getting in if those who believed in him
refused to give him a chance by votm "or
him. Still, the old “no-chance” gag did the
trick, and will do it again with boneheads
who love to vote on the winning side.
In the 1913 election the heads of. the
F.S.A. helped to knock out the Country
party, and voted solidly for the old Liberal
gang which, to all intents and purposes,
owned them. Even now, when they have been
fairly pushed into proclaiming their inde-
pendence by the rank and file of the asso-
ciation, most of the executive would prefer
to remain a joint in the tail of the so-called
Nationalist party, and consequently the
leaders of the F.S.A. are still regarded
with suspicion by many straight-out
Country party men. The insidious
Holman "my yet beguile - them into
sharing precarious perch. But
with proportional voting and the con-
sequent death-blow to the split-vote bogey,
the defeat of the Nationalist party in country
electorates is as certain as sunrise. Hitherto
the boss cocky’s fear of the Labor party,
or, rather, the I.W.W. and 0.8. U. barnacles
that have attached themselves to it, has out-
weighed his contempt of the alleged National-
ists. and he has voted accordingly; but if
he has a chance of voting for a straight-out
farmers’ candidate without the fear of let-
ting in some newly-imported red-ragger, he
will go joyfully to the poll. Failing a
straight-out farmers’ candidate, hundreds of
him will remain at work on pollin'.’'-day
rather than vote for Nationalist or Labor;
while so delicate is the balance between
Holman and Storey in the minds of little
cookies and share-farmers recently emanci-
pated that hundreds will vote Labor in sheer
disgust of the party responsible for the wheat
robberies and the reckless waste of money
wrung from the sweat of the heavily-taxed
producers.
TWO SEAS.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
President Wilson and His Illness.
“Macquarie Street’s” view of it: —
It was pointed out in The Bulletin some four
months ago that every effort would be made by
the specialists in attendance upon President Wilson
to arrive at a precise diagnosis of the patient’s
aiimer.t, and that great care would, be taken to
come to a definite conclusion as to whether the brain
mischief was functional or organic, and that all
neurological and ophthalmological symptoms would
be closely observed and freely discussed in con-
sultation by the various experts at the White House.
It was also hinted that it was possible that some
signs of arterial degeneration might be observed by
a minute study of the retinal blood-vessels, which
could be seen by the observer magnified about
19 times by means of the direct method of
ophthalmoscopy. It now appears that some dis-
quieting—nay, even alarming—symptoms of an
organic brain lesion were observed at the com-
mencement of the President’s illness. For reasons of
State, however, they were not permitted to become
public property, but, instead of the truth being
told, frequent bulletins were issued which declared
that the patient was suffering 1 from a functional
derangement of the brain and nervous system, and
that his intellectual vigor was absolutely unimpaired.
From the very first, nevertheless, some information
as to the seriousness of the President’s state must
have leaked out, for we heard frequent mention of
an aphasic condition which had resulted from a
“stroke.” These rumors, it now appears, contained
more than a grain of truth, though it is asserted
that, probably on account of the mental vigor of
the President being at that time apparently un-
impaired, the lesion was diagnosed as a thrombosis
of a cerebral blood-vessel, either primary or result-
ing from the sudden blocking of a small cerebral
arterial twig by a plug (embolus) coming from a dis-
tant part (usually a minute fragment or vegetation
from a diseased valve of the heart). The patient hav-
ing shown no disturbance of his mental faculties, the
disease was summed up as a thrombosis of a
cerebral vessel, and not cerebral haemorrhage
(vulgarly called a “stroke”), and so the prognosis
was thought to be much more favorable. The
patient began to go out of doors, and was wheeled
about in a chair, and the paralysis of the arm and
leg w r as said to be clearing up.
As the cables state that he is recovering from
left-sided hemiplegia, he could not have teen, as
Australian daily papers have reported, “lying
almost speechless at the White House” at any period
of his illness. In ordinary circumstances aphasia
is associated with right- sided paralysis, and the
paralysis of the President is left-sided. (In right-
handed persons, at any rate, the centre for speech lies
in Broca’s convolution, which is on the left side of
the brain. As the nerve fibres of the brain
cross over in the medulla oblongata, a
lesion of the left side of the brain pro-
duces a right-sided paralysis, and vice versa.)
Of course the patient would be kept per-
fectly quiet and would not be allowed to talk at
all for fear of unduly exciting his brain; but that
does not mean that he had lost the power of speech,
or even that'it was impaired.
No man who has suffered from thrombosis of a
cerebral blood-vessel would be likely to be the same
intellectually as he was before the occurrence of
the mischief. He might make a very good recovery
physically, and with proper treatment he might
recover a considerable, if not a perfect, command
of his affected limbs ; but there would certainly be
a change in his mentality, and an inability to
focus the mind on any abstruse problems, political
or otherwise. Besides this an irritability of tem-
perament would be bound in time to manifest itself,
the patient taking umbrage at the slightest inter-
ference with his particular duties or functions by
other persons, even by intimate friends. He would
be bound to make enemies, and would be undis-
mayed and unperturbed at any chaos lie created.
The. mind would have lost its perfect equipoise and
stability, and outbursts of emotionalism would be
likely to occur along with fits of despondency.
Such being the ease it is more than likely that
the President of the U.S.A. will be advised by his
doctors to retire from the political aieia.
Settling on the Land Outback.
This, with a note of triumph in it, has been
going round the Victorian papers:—
“The greatest Trojan of a settler I have ever
struck’’ was the eulogy bestowed by the Minister of
Railways upon a settler named Maloney, who is rear-
ing a family of seven boys and two girls on an
outback farm at Patchewallock. Mr. Baunes met
this hero during a tour which he made of the north-
west Mallee, and with the nearest station 17 miles
away and the nearest water 15 miles distant he
found the whole family “as happy as Larry.” They
had experienced a bad harvest, and the head of the
household has to cart water three times a week a
distance of 30 miles. On these trips over the soft,
sun-parched sand-ridges, including a four-mile stretch
over “the desert,” he makes an average speed of three
miles an hour, and arrives home after a 10 or 12
hours’ journey' in the small hours of the morning.
The homestead is a one-room barn-like structure
divided into compartments with hessian, and the
family, in the words of Mr. Barnes, is “the finest
you could gaze upon.” Before he became a pioneer
Mallee farmer four years ago Maloney was a motor-
driver in Ballarat,' in which city his wife also
lived.
Victoria isn’t a bad little State on the whole,
but in the North-West it has a patch of misery
-—in and about the county of Millewa, where
hardly anybody lives, and where the map
is marked “Sandhills and heath,” and there
are no permanent streams, and the natural
vegetables are the Eucalyptus dumosa and
the Damnosa hereditas and the mallee scrub
and also the malediction, and where no one
except those on the banks of the Big Trickle
have much luck. The map is spotted with
some such remarks as “Salt lakes” and
“Pipe-clay plains.” It is significant that on
the little area sown in Millewa the wheat yield
per acre is usually the lowest for Victoria
and less than half the State’s average. At
last census Millewa county contained 84
people against 112 ten years earlier. The
next worst Victorian county had 1731
people. Some callous creatures in office
thought of helping misguided population
into these parts so that they (the callous
creatures) might say they had “pro-
moted settlement” and “opened up the
country.” It is a strange fashion among
“patriots” to fiercely deny that Australia
possesses a desert^ —to deny it as if a desert
was arson or bigamy—and to spend money
on all manner of public works to prove that
the desert isn’t a desert. Also they beguile
people to poverty and misery to prove it.
The gallant Maloney had been out in the
North-West four years and had in better
times acquired the mansion described. Pre-
sumably having been a motor-driver in the
civilised city of Ballarat he brought some
money with him. He and his family of
nine dragged out the simple life in a “one-
room barn-like structure,” and he was
spending about half his time and half his
money-earning capacity and the whole of
his unhappy horse in dragging water about
over bad scenery so that he might live in
a region where five bushels of wheat are
reckoned a crop. The family was happy,
perhaps, because the misery hadn’t had time
to soak in. If it was marooned in Millewa
for a few generations and no miracle hap-
pened to Millewa, it would probably approxi-
mate mentally to the ape. The courage of
Maloney is beyond praise,, and so many a
time has been the courage of a shipwrecked
family perishing on a raft. Still, to beguile
families on to unproductive rafts merely
that they may develop courage isn’t the act
of a gentleman. Victoria has a long list
of undeveloped industries—clean, reliable,
well-paying industries, for which there is
an urgent demand if the rapacious foreign
profiteer is ever to be got rid of so that
the price of living may come down. They
yield more than five bushels to the acre,
and don’t involve heavy and wholly unpaid
toil till the small hours of the morning
three days a week. Bush settlement out
back exists by conditions like that. If the
town artisan was willing to live with his
wife and family of nine in a one-room barn-
like structure and work these hours, Aus-
tralia could do without a Protective tariff.
Queensland’s New M’s.L.C.
Theodore, Premier of Queensland, having
had further proof that measures wnich appeal
to his Government don’t appeal to a majo-
rity of members of the Leg. Council, has sent
another 14 union secretaries and such like
to the House to carry his party’s programme.
Those who are denouncing Theodore for
doing this are good friends of Direct Action
and Bolshevism and other brands of revolu-
tion. The argument which ought to flatten
out the revolutionary propagandists in Aus-
tralia is that here we have government by
, the people, and that revolution simply means
a resort to force by a minority against a
majority. But so long as there are nominee
Houses, consisting for the most part of mem-
bers who disagree Avith the views of the
majority of the people’s direct representa-
tives, there is a flaw in that argument; and
none know it better than the revolution-
aries. who take full and more than fair
advantage of it. There is no place in a
democracy for such a House as the Queens-
land Leg. Council, and its existence . con-
stitutes one of our greatest dangers; it pro-
vides the revolutionaries with a leg to stand
upon and is a menace to peace and order.
The action of Theodore supplies the only
answer to the revolutionaries: the people
can still rule through their representatives’
power of swamping the Chamber. Whether
the elfect on legislation is going to be good
or bad is not the question at present. Pro-
bably, until the people can be taught indi-
vidual responsibility and a little more econo-
mics, it will be bad. But it will provide
an invaluable safety-valve to save the coun-
try from one of those violent explosions that
have come to some countries and threaten
others.
- ♦ —- ———
Shams, Frauds and Hypocrites.
A multitude of candidates are already on
deck for the N. S. Wales election, and every
man of them is solid mi one of two things
and most of them are solid on both things—
decentralisation and economy, especially
economy in the use of loan money, which
is ruinously expensive these times. Their
unanimity along these lines is terrible, and
it seems to be understood that any applicant
who wasn’t unanimous enough would be
thrown into outer darkness. But taking the
financial question first, it seems impossible
to extract out of one voluble philanthropist
in the crowd, from the moral Dr. Arthur,
who is as full of good intentions as a cookery
book, down to the immoral person who is
too well-known to require mention, anything
definite in reply to such questions as these: —
Does the candidate believe in the abolition by
law of borrowing except for renewal purposes, and
would he have a sinking fund, however small, for
the reduction of old debts ?
Or does he believe in restricting new loans by
law to any fixed amount per annum, whether it be
one or five or ten or fifty millions.
Does he approve of the use of loan money only
for works that will pay working expenses and full
interest, this to be provided for by lawf And
will he support a law providing that when, say,
£1,000,000 of loan money has been mistakenly
invested in a work that doesn’t pay interest, the
error will be put right by a refund out of revenue ?
Or, failing answers to these questions, will he
put his ideas of economy in plain figures, whatever
they may be, and declare that he will fight to have
his policy made law ?
The Bulletin puts these propositions be-
cause it regards the loan policy, especially
when money is spent on road repairs and
other unpayable works, as a device whereby
confidence men buy their jobs in Parliament
at the expense of posterity. It holds that
the man who, in the process of buttressing
his job, hands down to posterity a hopeless
work which is a perpetual tax upon it, is
just this much worse than the man who
hands down a disease —that he did his
wicked act deliberately, from mercenary
motives, while the diseased person didn’t
incur and pass on his burden deliberately
and for profit. It commends this question
particularly to earnest and moral medical
candidates who know something about heredi-
tary disease, and to financial ones who
know something about hereditary mortgages,
and to pious ones who know something
about sin, and to gentlemanly ones who
think they know something about honor. As
regards the other question, the only way
the Government of an over-large State can
be decentralised is by establishing more
centres of government, either absolutely
independent of the old centre or so nearly
independent that their position amounts in
practice to the same thing. The decentralisa-
tion of population, commerce and industry
would follow, but the decentralisation of
power, which creates and influences these
things, comes first. But the recognised
party-leaders, both Congested City men. are
decentralisers who never propose to estab-
lish any new centres of power, and the
blessed word “decentralisation” is the same
shadowy affair as “economy.” It would be
a relief to come across one honest man who
would say that he believed in borrowing
anyhow, and spending anyhow, regardless
of consequences; and to meet one straight-
forward man who was frankly in favor of
knocking “decentralisation” out of the poli-
tical vocabulary. The shams, frauds and
hypocrites are so hazy and indefinite.
- *
Hides and How We Are Skinned.
Because the world is pretty well skinned
of hides the Australian market is rushed;
and because exchange is all against Aus-
tralia and in favor of the U.S.A., American
buyers are actually able to purchase in Aus-
tralia for less money than the Australian
himself can. The operation is simple. Aus-
tralian importers—say, of printing paper,
which isn’t made in Australia —have to pay
nearly £l4O for every £IOO worth they buy
in the U.S.A. That is because our pound is
now worth only about 13s. in the U.S.A. The
exporter of hides, who buys in Australian
money and sells in the U.S.A. in American,
is thus able to get his purchases at this
end financed at a large profit -to himself: the
paper-importer will pay for the other man's
hides in Australia, and the hide-man will
pay for the Australian’s paper in America
—-for a consideration. Thus the American
competing in the Australian’s own market
is able to make the latter pay more than the
hide is really worth; in fact, it would pay
the American buyer of Australian hides to
sell to the American manufacturer for less
money than he bought at in Australia. The
result, of course, is that the Australian
tanner is bidding against a buyer who can
afford to pay what is really a fictitious price,
and the Australian shoemaker and mender
in their turn have had to steadily push up
their prices, amidst howls of “Profiteer!”
There is only one thing to be done: to pro-
hibit the exportation of hides —preferably
of all hides, so that the surplus above Aus-
tralian requirements may be exported in the
form of leather. The suggestion that just
enough hides should be retained to satisfy
Australian needs looks all right; but the
practical difficulty about that scheme is
involved in the question; “Whose hides are
going to be held for local consumption and
sold at the cheaper rate?” There may still
be a rush for Australian hides in the form
of leather; but. at any rate, Australia will
have had the job of making the leather. And
the American tanner will, at any rate, be
cut out of the competition even if the
foreign leather-user isn’t. In the first four
working weeks of this year nearly 60,000
hides were exported from Australia; and


vr
s*•
Kit
- Life and
g
The Premier Hotel of Australia.
Renovated from Roof to Basement.
SYDNEY.
NEW FEATURES
Extension of Winter Gar-
den.
New Sixth Floor.
New Fireproof Flat Con-
crete Roof.
New Rooms with Private
R ths.
New Furnishings.
ATTRACTIVE SPECIALTIES
Comfort and Quietness. Every
Convenience and Quick Service.’
Automatic Telephones in every
Room. Private Safe Deposit.
Stenographer and Private Office
for use of Guests.
Choice of Rating. Room and
Breakfast or Full Board.
Meals —A la Carte or Table d'hote.
Apply Manager. WIIAT WE ADVERTISE WE SUPPLY.
0
ynrr
rm
r~
mm
•'A
( Gfie
‘Australia’"
Wfnter Garden
that means a loss of £15,000 in wages—our
own stupidity provides that much work for
foreigners; and we sell to the foreigners
for £175,000 what would certainly as
leather command £200,000. Multiply that
by 12 and you get £300,000, which, in this
one line, we make a present of annually
to the foreigner—who thanks us for it by
profiteering us shamelessly. We are the
sort of simple people who invite profiteering.
Doomed Trades.
Whom the gods mean to destroy they first
teach to say “Damn the public!” At the
present moment the United States prohibi-
tionists have started to wave umbrellas
towards the year 1924—the date which they
have fixed for the abolition of the use of
tobacco. Whether they will succeed or not
it is hard to even guess; but they had
enough success with alcohol to amaze the
world. Those American prohibitors have
plenty of lean brothers and massive sisters
in Australia; and it is certain that smoking,
like thirst, will be on its defensive before
many years are out. Knowing this, the
tobacco trade is striving by every means in
its power to irritate the public and alienate
its sympathy. The cigarette—peculiarly the
soldiers’ smoke, and now on good authority
asserted to be less disastrous than either
pipe or cigar—is having a bad time. The
purchaser seldom knows whether he can get
what he wants or what price he will have
to pay for it, or whether the thing when
he gets it will be the real thing or some-
thing entirely different. What sixpence will
buy in one shop costs variously 6Jd., 7d.
and Bd. in others; and as likely as not the
smoker striking the eightpenny deal will find
that he is getting less or worse than he does
where the price is lower. The result is
much profanity—profanity that creates a
spirit which is altogether antagonistic to the
trade. It is very much the same sort of
thing that the wine-sellers contrived to do.
The sentiment behind Australian wines
should have been the very best. We can
make a good article; wine-growing is a
pleasing industry ; our fathers, for the most
part, drank only wine in their poetry, and
so there was an hereditary delight in the
very name. But the wine trade insisted on
making the very worst of its opportunities. To
create a taste for its wares it offered them
in dark dives and shabby holes. It fortified
the heavier kinds with any sort of spirit
that would ensure speedy intoxication; and
it said “Damn the public!” What wonder
that after half a century or so the wine trade
has very few real friends? It might easily
have been separated from the general l’quor
fight and fortified by the goodwill of those
who hate whisky and loathe beer. It
might even now reform itself and regain the
ground it has lost —but it doesn't. The
doomed trades are doomed because of the
hands into which they fall. Lack .of imagina-
tion plays the Devil with them.
The Blackening of Australia.
Tiie Australian Workers’ Union opened its
annual convention with the usual Speech from
the Throne by its president (Blakeley,
M.H.R.), who said, among other things:—
The more wages received the more accentuated the
position grows. Commodities are disappearing from
the tables of the people. Boots and clothing are so
high in price that the wage-earner finds it increas-
ingly hard to buy them....lf serious trouble is to
be averted there must be a considerable reduction in
the cost of living. The responsibility rests upon
the Commonwealtli Government to bring about that
reduction. One coal company recently made 157 per
cent, profit.
Here, as usual, there isn’t a hint that any-
body raises prices except the Australian
employer, and the implication is that if
pay has risen 30 per cent, and the cost
(mostly of imported goods) has risen 55
per cent., the Australian employer must
have the difference. There is never a hint
that any of it went to the I J . and O. Co., or
the Nippon Yusen Kaisha. or the British
cotton combine which made £4,000,000 in
one year and showed a 40 per cent, profit, or
to the Yankee Steel King who lately died
worth £30,000,000, a fair share of it made
out of this country. Blakeley, like a
thousand others, concentrates his anger on
Australian industry and froths about one
alleged coal co. which in one year made
157 per cent., making no mention of the
fact that for one privately-owned concern
that may have “made” 157 per cent, there
were a dozen that paid nothing at all and
more that paid 5 per cent, or less; making-
no mention either of the fact that a coal-
mine is a perishing concern, anyhow, and
that what it “makes” isn’t necessarily profit
at all, any more than the pound which a
cabinet-maker gets for a chair is profit, see-
ing that lie has to pay for the material he
builds it of. How is it that the foreign
profiteer, even if he is a non-union man
and colored laborite and a 1000 per cent,
shark, is left out of all these discourses?
.And why is it that the fury of the crowd
i■■ always directed against any man who
employs white Australians at union wages
and hours, no matter how modest Ids profits
may be?
To Increase Our Population.
The observations of “Biologist” :
Bedford (B. 5/2/’2O) offers a formula to increase
our population. He lays it down: (a) We should
disregard nationality and require a high physical
standard, (b) The French and Italians, except in
trade, have been the superiois of the English, (c)
We want the Frenchman to teach us to love Aus-
tralia as the Frenchman loves France, (d) It will
better the quality of Australian babies if their
mothers are given better treatment.
Under rule (a) the majority of immigrants would
probably be Huns; for physically they are
often fine beasts, and they may be anxious to come
here! (b) Italy is without a virile manhood; in
modern wars, even with Africans, they shape Lauly.
They are often parasites on their own womenkir 1,
giving them the heavy labor. As for the French,
the quality of the French mind appears dependent
on the country. All immigrants there, aff a few
generations, become typically French; while French-
men migrating to Canada, New Orleans and the
West Indies appear to mentally retrograde. (c)
We do not want Frenchmen or any other nation to
teach us to love our country; the notion is pre-
posterous. We might as reasonably import English
grandmothers to teach our babies to love their
mothers. Love of any kind is not taught. If any
people love their country and have given effective
proof, it is the Australians; yet no one is known
to have handed them lessons, (d) There is no con-
clusive evidence that the quality of children in
the mass is improved by the better treatment of
THE SILVER LINING.
“What do you think of the two candidates?”
“Well, the more I think of them the more pleased I am that only one of them can yet in.”
the mothers. Modern humanitarian science by pre-
serving the weaklings preserves the unfit, who live
to reproduce their kind, and they are often prolific.
When to this result is joined the fact that in pro-
portion to the better school education of women the
birth-rate declines, experts are very dubious about
an effective formula for race betterment.
Generally, wide crossings in humanity produce
mongrels with the vices and not the virtues of their
parents. Closer crosses produce an approach to
the hybrid that in the first generation may have
more, ability than the parents; it is usually restless,
discontented, inventive and enterprising. But in
later generations the quality of the hybrid declines,
and the inferior of the two crossed ancestors appears
pure, having submerged the other strain. The
Spanish and Portuguese are in various stages of
submersion in the S. American Republics. The
U.S.A. is the example of the constantly-recurring
partial hybrid. The original British strain is being
rapidly submerged by Central and Southern Euro-
peans, who in their turn will have to struggle with
the more prolific negro. On present statistics let
immigration stop, and in measurable time Uncle
Sam will be Uncle Sambo.
One point in the confused problem seems sure:
the most effective parentage goes with the physical
laborer, and ultimately that labor dominates and
owns the country.
From a southern studio: —
The artist, like a lot of other Australians, needs a
tariff. The hoardings of cities and country towns
are covered with posters advertising moving pic-
tures. These posters are import itinns adverti ing
importations. There arrives with every new pic-
ture a bundle of new posters, and the drawing and
printing of them would mean a big thing to the
artists and the printers of this country. It is bad
enough that the Australian people go on looking at
imported pictures; it becomes a tragedy when the
people are led to them by imported posters. The
Americans don’t reciprocate. No fear! All our
imported publications are illustrated by foreign
artists, and local illustrators go hungry for the same
kind of work. America protects her artists. I
would like all good Australians to know (and I
would like all readers to put their imported book
or magazine aside for a moment while I tell them)
that the U.S.A. will not allow books published in
America to be illustrated by foreigners—and Aus-
tralians are foreigners. Dennis’s “Sentimental
Bloke” was published in America, but it had to
be done without the illustrations of its Australian
illustrator. It had to be given a new cover and
jacket, drawn by an American. What about an
Artists, Writers, Printers and Publishers’ Protec-
tion League to do something for ourselves and our
country ?
The best regulated Constitution has a
flaw in it, and the United States has dis-
covered that there is no provision for the
removal of a President who has become
mentally unbalanced. The President has
enormous power during his term of office,
as befits the elect of a whole nation,
though he can be impeached (but not for
going off his head)' when his term has
expired. Hereditary monarchies, where
there is any kind of a Constitution, pro-
vide for a regency if the Lord’s Anointed
begins to “see things,” but the U.S. took
it for granted that a President could be
relied on for four years. Twenty-six
Presidents pulled through all right, and
now a difficulty has arisen. It is proposed
to amend the Constitution to meet it, but
that is a job that may take years. Wilson’s
trouble, which laid him up for many weeks,
concerns the arteries of the brain. It has
probably been growing for a considerable
time, and may even have been the cause of
the League of Nations. It is said to be
incurable. The complaint doesn’t signify plain
madness. But it signifies enough to make
the President a very different individual
from the one who was first elected at the
end of 1912. And Wilson. President,
Grand Admiral, Commander-in-Chief of the
Army and Militia, has power to dash things
about until March 1921. He can be got
rid of by death, but nobody likes to kill
him. The only other way is resignation.
Complaint was made last week by G. A.
Bundle in the Federal Arbitration Court
that the Court was choked with business
and that law-abiding unions with griev-
ances could not get within coo-ee of the
tribunal to which Ministers and newspapers
were never tired of telling them they should
appeal. Higgins, J., who has spent most
of the vacation trying to get well enough to
work, agreed that there was need for
more deputy-presidents, and added that the
responsibility rested with the Governor-in-
Council (in other words, with Billy Hughes
Attorney-General). To make matters worse
Powers, J., who has been overworked. i s to
have a spell in May, and cannot take anv
arbitration work,in addition to what he ha<
in hand. Operating as usual behind n
smoke-screen, Hughes is understood to be
trying to fix up some arrangement- but it
isn’t every High Court Judge who is cut
out for dealing with industrial quarrels
And, anyhow, the question begins to push
itself forward whether we are not more in
need of teachers than of judges. More than
half the cases that at present cumber the
courts wouldn’t get there if the parties knew
a bit more about economics.
There is a house-shortage in Svdnev due
chiefly to scarcity of material and labor As
an outcome of it two and even three families
are living in cottages designed for one
Nevertheless the Theatre Royal is about to
be “entirely remodelled.’’ The adjoining
hotel will be removed and “the whole of that
facade will be appropriated for the use of
the new and handsome theatre.” And a brand-
new theatre is projected further along the
street. When the “dudes” of the Middle
Ages utterly lost their heads in a sartorial
sense the English Parliament passed sump-
tuary laws limiting the length of their boots
and the quality of their jewellery. A law
on similar lines restricting building enter-
prises to works of demonstrable neeessitv
might have a wholesome effect on the house-
problem in N. S. Wales at the present time.
A further fuss in Britain about the
gigantic and world-embracing (’oats Cotton
Combine, which made £4,000,000 profit in
one recent year, moved Sydney Telegraph
(21/2/’2O) to the anger* of a sheep:—
The monopoly of J. and P. Coats, for it has come
to be a monopoly, needs a curb on its charges, and
it is to be hoped that the inquiry will benefit con-
sumers materially.
It isn’t likely that it will; in fact, J. Bull
will be a bigger fool than he looks if it does.
Out of Coats’s annual profit it has trans-
pired that about £370,000 was made in Bri-
tain. while the other £3,630,000 was made
outside from raw-material-producing, import-
ing, non-manufacturing people like the Aus-
tralians, and spent in Britain. These profits
were what remained after paying British
War Profits Tax (75 per cent.) and other
charges, so probably Coats’s savage profiteer-
ing brought seven or eight millions of out-
side money (ours and others’) to Britain.
If through Bull submitting to be looted of
3d. himself he is able to loot 335. from us
and our kind, he isn’t likely to interfere
with the system. And the only way Aus-
tralia can interfere is by growing and manu-
facturing its own cotton.
“Copy Boy” : If the Yic. Full Court con-
tinues to play ducks and drakes with
sentences imposed by ex-Crown Prosecutor
Woinarski (w r ho a while back was made a
County Court Judge), that official m'ay
yet discern something dimly resembling a
hint. Three of his sentences came up for
review- in one recent week, and all were sub-
stantially reduced. Gaol-breakers to whom
he had awarded four and two years were
told that it would be two years and six
months respectively, and a first offender
who was convicted of acquiring £2O by
forging a telegram, and to whom Woinar-
ski handed three years (three-fifths of the
maximum sentence), had his term reduced
to one year, Justice Hood remarking coldly
that the original sentence was “far too
severe.” Shortly after his appointment
Woinarski distinguished himself by award-
ing five years and 15 lashes to an 18-
year-old first offender convicted of having
aided in a case of robbery with violence.
An appeal to the Full Court resulted in the
flogging being cancelled and the term of
imprisonment reduced to two years. It
might be as well if in future Governments
thought hard before elevating an old-
established Crown Prosecutor to the
Bench.
It may be significant, or it may be quite
insignificant, that the sister of Lord and
Irish-Viceroy French was on the platform
when acting-President Griffith of the Irish
Republic addressed a meeting at the Albert
Hall, London. It at least that
Irish republicanism is among the Spring
fashions. Another point was the greeting
sent by Scotch Robert Smillie, president of
the Miners’ Federation and representative of
the Scottish National Committee, saying that
English control of Ireland and Scotland
would soon cease. There is really a great
lack of political sympathy between England
and the three smaller members. Thus at
the last 20 general elections before the War
Coalition England returned a Tory majority
II times; Wales seven times, the last occa-
sion being 1559; Ireland once, also in 1859;
Scotland never, though it gave a Unionist
majority in 1900. Not once since In-
land there was no Parliament worth men-
tioning before then, but rather a mixed
crowd of nominees) has the combined vote
of Wales, Ireland and Scotland been other
than anti-Tory, so all the Conservative
Government they have got has been sup-
plied from England.


A strong, virile nation needs strong, virile
tasks on which to bend its energies. The
Iron and Steel Industry opens up such a
field of endeavor for Australian Manhood,
providing work that develops and fosters
self-control, initiative, stamina and force
of character.
The Australian
Iron and Steel
Industry
would give employment at Australian rates of pay (if
all the Iron and Steel goods imported into Australia
were made by our own people) to not less than
30,000 MEN,
who would earn over
£5»000,000 per year.
POLITICAL
POINTS.
The regular bi-weekly unemployed depu-
tation turned up at Brisbane and was pro-
mised railway work —the work or using <i-i
p.c. money to build lines which yield 13s. 6d.
p.c. The drift from productive occupations
that have to earn their keep to Government
jobs where 20s. is paid for ss. worth of work
and the bill is charged to posterity, will
apparently go on till the loans stop. Here
is a significant record :
Oct of 10.000 People there were Employed in
Factories
In 1912. In 1917. Decrease.
Westralia .. .. •. 543 394 149
Tasmania . . .. . . 519 406 113
S. Australia .. <>7o 001 75
Queensland . . . . . . 048 000 48
N. S. Wales . . . . 065 635 30
Victoria .. • . .. 850 830 20
The figures are not exactly up to date, and
as regards Queensland they were compiled
before the Townsville insurrection and the
beginning of the great unemployed demonstra-
tions. They show everywhere a steady drift
from enterprises which produce things to slug-
gish, unpayable and often useless loan-jobs.
There is talk of a better tariff, but even a
tariff won’t do much to create industries
THE PANACEA.
HURBY-ON PERSON : “ Don’t you know your
house is on fire? What are you doing
about it?”
GO-SLOW PERSON : “ Blime! I went on strike
about it, didn’t I?”
unless the Federal authority cam find some
way of stopping the State loan madness. A
Premier with six borrowed millions in each
hand and the glare of insanity in his eye
can outbid any private employer, whatever
the tariff.
The present attitude of Sydney Labor
Council is that the twice-convicted I.W.W.
arsonists must be released, guilty or inno-
cent. The Council proposes to make this. a
test for Labor membership. Man-who-is-
Shoved-in-Front Storey repudiates this view.
All he wants is that these men should be
tried by “a proper tribunal of an impartial
nature.” They were tried first and con-
victed by the tribunal that has to be good
enough for every other citizen. As a special
concession to their Labor friends they were
re-tried by the same sort of tribunal and
convicted again. J< im Storey isn’t game to
say that the Judges at t. ! tw trials were
corrupt, but he probably means that those
at the third trial (i
trials these n nd ! shall # be suiitcmntjy
rotten to make acuuittuk _ followed by com-
pensation, certain. John isn’t a top Storey
in the way of con*" He -s more of a
Cellar.
Presumably
Government has a m-ijority H ' cootieu.
it will proceed with mem *s for
tion of that Chamber. A House u. . n-n
No when the people’s House said -
an undemocratic impertinence; one that .
say Yes to everything the other House will
say is too obvious a superfluity. The aboli
tion of the nominee Houfce is on the Gov-
ernment’s programme. It says that its
policy has been held up for years by the
Council. Now its sincerity is up to the test.
If it doesn’t abolish the Couifcil when it
can it will give pretty good proof that it
is darned glad to have somebody which it
can blame for blocking some of its window-
dressing foolishnesses
Prom the Yic. State lobbies: —
Recess has been extended for a month and will
be prolonged by instalments till supply is exhausted
at the end of June. P. G. Stewart’s win foi
Wimmera at the Federal election has made Ministers
Hutchinson and Campbell, Whip Pennington and
Angus anxious about their scuts, and Leckie’s
defeat has disturbed Beardmore. The Farmers’
Union has, in fact, become a nightmare for about
10 members. Dave Oman sees he must make up
his mind soon whether he will become a whole-liog
F.U.-ite, and that means a breakaway from the
Ministry. If he does not sign the F.U. bond it is
very likely he will find himself neither member nor
Minister. At the latest the for the
Assembly must be held in November, but it may be
considered wise to plunge earlier. Greenwood and
his prohibition group intend to make things
troublesome next session if they get the chance.
They want a simple majority substituted for the
three-fifths majority now prescribed to carry “No
license” at the local-option poll which must be
taken at next general election. A sudden dissolu-
tion and the water-waggonfirs would be euchred
without hurting Ministerial supporters who lean
towards Bung.
Premier Peake, of S. Aus., asked to do
something to alleviate the distress caused
at Port Pirie by the strike at Broken Hill,
told his petitioners to go to the people
responsible for the stoppage of work. He
might very properly have told them to go
to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, or even to the Govern-
ment of N. S. Wales. The posi-
tion is that the law makes
strikes illegal, and because the
authority responsible for seeing
that the law is not broken fails
in that duty, people are in dis-
tress. So the Government —
some Government —is respon-
sible for the distress, and ought
to relieve it. Peake’s own posi-
tion is, however, awkward. His
Government has no control
whatever over Broken Hill; and
if the S. Aus. Treasury pays it
Will be simply fined for some-
body else’s fault. Peake might
reasonably ask Hughes and Hol-
man wliat they propose to do
about it.
“Labor in power has always
pushed ahead with public
works,” says its N. S. Wales
leader Storey, “and our previous
experience justifies an even
bolder policy in future.” If
steadily-increasing taxation to
pay for losses on public works
is justification, Storey can find
plenty of reason for being even
bolder than the party was when
it made the Norton Griffiths
contract. In 1911 the N. S.
Wales taxation was 12s. 6d per
head. By 1918 it was £2 Is.
Id. —with boundless increases in
railw'v fares and freights on
top of it.
It is N. S. Wales Labor-Leader Storey
now who is going to gaol the profiteer.
Storey might do it —-if the profiteer were
in N. S. Wales. But for the most part he
isn’t, he lives in England or America or
Japan, and the N. S. Wales criminal law
doesn’t run to England and America and
Japan. The man who is on the spot can
be dealt with, and mostly he is dealt with,
not so much by the price-fixer as by the
labor union, which, if the local man s profits
are supposed to be good, promptly calls on
him to share them with his workmen. But
Labor never has taken seriously in hand
tlie matter of encouraging production on
the spot, wherefore to-day it can no more
control its biggest profiteers than it can an
Antarctic blizzard. Labor has been in con-
trol in Queensland for five years; yet, as
Ivuibbs has just shown again, the cost of
living has increased more in Brisbane dur-
ing that time than in any other State
capital.
“In the permanent military forces,” said
an inspired Melbourne message last week,
“the rates of pay are low and the prospects
of advancement meagre. Young officers are
beginning to look longingly towards Great
<ui These are the youngsters to
•> jit.,; before the great upheaval, lan
Hamilton gav« rii- toast: “Bloody wars and
quick pmmcifi it ! lb materialised. But
the speed with which these officers were pro-
moted while the fighting was on was nothing
ith Which they -were
reverted to their original rank as soon as it
ended Australia can’t afford to lose them,
if- only because their going will' advertise
,/tbroad one of the most discreditable con-
•ndence-tricks on record.
WANTED, A BOTTLE-O PARTY.
N.S.W.: “Plenty of heavy drinkers but not
a word about getting rid of the empties."
Seven sections of the building trade in
Vie. which have arbitrarily decided not
to work more than 40 hours a week
have been told by the Vic. Cabinet that they
cannot have it all their own way. The
Wages Boards fixed 44 hours and settled pay
accordingly. As the unions have snapped
their fingers at the Boards’ determinations,
the Government has decided to suspend the
awards for 12 months. But, frankly, what
good is that going to do anybody? In pre-
sent conditions it is like telling a man who
doesn’t want an overdraft and has no use
for it that he can’t have one.
If Governments wanted further proof of
the urgent need of legislation to control fly-
ing, this incident supplies all that should be
necessary:—
A facetious young bird has our section of the
Vic. police force fizzing. There was an aircraft dis-
play arranged in which an “ace” and a stunting-plane
figured. The youth, in the excitement of the stunting,
ran a little wild, and fancied himself Lack again in
France putting the fear of Qott into the Huns. He
ground-strafed the crowd, blowing hats off and per-
forming similar pleasantries. Then, when a dignified
mounted-constable rode up to arrest him, or some-
thing, he chased the trooper around the arena, to the
delirious delight of the crowd. Another bobby who
intervened had to duck and run, and a senior-
constable lost his helmet dodging a landing-wheel.
Small boys had to sprawl flat and dig into the turf
to avoid the sweeping ’plane, and the other fliers
showing in the display climbed into their machines
and went up a few thousand feet for safety. Then
the wild colonial boy, just warming up to his work,
crashed disastrously.
Dissatisfaction with the Lawson Govern-
ment and the appearance of Hayseed can-
didates promise a big change in the Vic.
Assembly at the next elections. Many good
Liberals are feeling sick, but on the Labor
side the seats are mostly reckoned safe.
Tunnecliffe, however, will probably have a
funeral, though he will make a good fight of
it.
The N. S. Wales police, superannuated
and otherwise, threaten to “get to” the
Holman Government in the coming election
because Chief Secretary George Fuller is
alleged to have recently told some super-
annuated men to find work. But why not?
Police retire at GQ; and the majority of
them, because they have been obliged to live
fairly-active, regular, open-air lives, are in
pretty good nick at that age. Though not
young and active enough for a policeman’s
rough and tumble job, they are mostly yuite
lit for some other job, and why sbouldn t
they do it? There are lots of jobs that
can't be regarded as life-jobs. Even the
“infant prodigy” has to take to something
else in time. For one ground of complaint
the policemen have tlieir pais the firemen
have a million. So far as N. S. Wales i>
concerned, the firemen are probably the
most imposed upon of all public servants.
The march of civilisation in the Northern
Territory as naively reflected in a depart-
mental report of the beginning of the Gil-
ruth regime:—
The more treacherous tribes have been taught a
salutary lesson, anil most of the tribes ha\e now
become thoroughly civilised. They have lost their
war-like habits and have now, under the supervision
, , beneficent department, become like the blacks
,r! 1 i.’tes, much reduced tribes of harmless
mendicants.
All X. S. Wales parties
have now settled down to a
comfortable definition >f
the word “decentralisation/’
It isn’t to mean the ere
avion of new centres of
politl&JkL.. power, or centres
of i' lustre 1 'Slid
and 1 / finance, widen might
possihj. ,1 compete with
Sydney,' The old centre is
to bt ever.
But it is usc o
great work of honest, de-
centralisation has been
done when a border railway
is joined on to a line in
another State, with a break
of gauge to hinder traffic,
and the rates and condi-
tions and the time-table
regulated from Sydney. So
the Ma State was really
decentralised w i t h o u t
knowing it when the Mel-
bourne line was finished in
1883, and again in 1880
when the Brisbane line was
completed. The Labor
party says it proved itself
deserving of trust as the
only full-blown decentraliser
because in 1014 it built 11
miles of branch line to
make another connection
with Victoria. But that
kind of “decentralisation’’ had happened 31
years earlier. And it was so little like the
real thing that Labor didn’t recognise it.
A man of small ambitions is N.S.W.’s
Premier-that-hopes-to-be Storey. Speaking
at Drummoyne he said :
Mr. Holman states that there is Insufficiency of
wealth production to meet the needs ot ell classes,
and that only fcy increased output can we hope to
cope with the social problems that upset us to-day.
....He is absolutely wrong.... There is more than
ample wealth produced in Australia-; meat, rabbits,
wheat, wool, butter, cheese—to secure a most
adequate provision for our own people.
Therefore it is needless to do any more work,
or to start any different kind of work, for
Australia can sell rabbits and buy every-
thing it wants from the foreign profiteer.
There is plenty of wealth being produced, of
the rabbit variety, and Australia can put
away ambition. Yet when Storey’s party
was running a Government for six years it
borrowed nearly £22,000,000 in London,
apart from renewal loans. W hat did it do
that for if there was sufficient wealth in
the State?
The new Botany electorate (N.S.W-
Assembly) is in a tangle, despite that it
is almost entirely a collection of Labor
strongholds. Tom Mutch, of the W orker.
headed the party selection, but will pro-
bably do less well in the wider electorate;
,T. J. Morrish, one-time secretary of the
Hotel and Restaurant Employees’ Union,
and until last election Labor member for
King, is the Nationalist, and will succeed
as far as good campaigning Vrill win suc-
cess ; and a sou of old Labor-leader
McGowen is an Independent Laborite. The
son was a member of the staff of N.S.W.
Parliament, hut wants a seat in it. Although
the old warrior is a dead-letter politically,
his name is still a thing of power in the
district in which he has lived all his life
and which he served for years; and that is
going to bring the son many votes.
“Henry Ilorsecollar’s” view of it:—
Strenuous reformers are saying a great deal during
the present N. S. Wales campaign about the need
for an Elective Ministry. If that means that mem-
bers of Parliament will be the sole electors and also
the only eligible candidates, then the reform isn’t
worth fussing about. The party with the majority
elects the Premier and liis colleagues in secret
caucus. If these potentates had for a change to be
elected by the House, then the majority, having
fixed things up in its room, would move into the
House and choose the same crowd over again. Elec-
tion by the people, with every elector aged (say) 30
or more eligible whether he had a seat in the House
or not, would be a different thing. Choice of port-
folio-holders by vote of the House looked good enough
30 years ago before machine politics had developed,
but it would be an antiquated, bow-and arrow schema
now.
WE DID THIS OURSELVES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the luncheon to Boss Smith after his aui\al
a voice asked, jokingly, “Have you seen our haibor i
There may be proper cause for piide
In gifts' by Nature’s hands bestowed ;
More right have we to put on side
O’er wonders that are only owed
To our own efforts. Let’s unload
The pride that every heart should feel
In wonders that we now conceal!
When visitors we would amaze,
The harbor question well may wait.
Let us not seek for wordy praise,
But, rather, for the speechless state
Evoked by something strangely great;
And keep this question ready set:
“Sir, have you seen our Public Debt?”
N.S.W.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


“THE GREATEST TURN ON EARTH.”
“The Washington correspondent of the New York ‘Tribune’ states that the Secretary for the Navy (Mr. Josephus Daniels) has announced that
he will place before Congress within a fortnight naval plans providing for the construction of 16 super-dreadnoughts and 10 battle-cruisers. An expenditure
of about £160,000,000 is contemplated. "— Coble.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
BHAS
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms ronnlatoH 1
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of —
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and tlie following: Alloys and Metallic Products
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Pom der.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Siiicious Silver- 5 J **
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Prosses. Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL. Secretary. „
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL, AUSTIN FRIARS, EC. 2
A. .T. SMITH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRIv (Agrentt.
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOK MANX’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BBLLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Uonobel
Samsorme
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Moderate Charges.
Economical Management.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE Company (Ltd.)
Specially Qualified by Act of Parliament to act as
TRUSTEE, EXECUTOR, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY
UNDER POWER, AGENT, ETC.
TRUST FUNDS UNDER THE COMPANY’S CONTROL EXCEED £15,000,000.
Booklet on Application.
33 to 39 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
Undoubted Security.
COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Manager.
R. L. MASSIE, Secretary,
The WILDCAL
COUMN
The Australian Gaslight Co. (Syd-
ney) from the date when £424,998 was
transferred to capital:—
To Ite- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ v v v
Dec. 1912.. 82,765 10 p.c. = 63,750 19,015 13,287
June’. 1913.. 58,035 10 „ ~ 63,750 7,572
“C”
Shares Shares
10 p.c. 7 p.c.
Dec., 1913.. 74,511 63,750 8,778 1,986 9,558
9 p.c.
June. 1914.. 68,288 57,375 8,925 1,988 11,546
7 p.c.
Dec., 1914.. 52,696 44,625 8,925 10,692
6 p.c.
.lure, 1915.. 53,463 44,625 7,650 1,188 11,880
Dec. 1915.. 55,472 44,625 7,650 3,197 15,077
June, 1916.. 53,377 44,625 7,650 1,102 16,179
Dec., 1916.. 51.525 44,625 7,650 15,429
5 p.c. 5 p.c.
June, 1917.. 39,495 31,870 (>,375 1,245 16,674
Dec.. 1917.. 26,341 31,875 6,375 4,765
7 p.c. 7 p.c.
June, 1918.. 60,286 44,625 8,925 6,736 11,501
9 p.c. 9 p.c.
Dec., 1918.. 90.579 57,375 11,475 21,729 33,230
8 p.c. 8 p.c.
June 1919.. 48,366 51,000 17,360 13,236
Dec., 1919.. 74,093 51,000 22,200 893 14,129
X. S. Wales gas cos. were first harnessed by
statute in 1012. when Carmichael’s Act set
out to regulate the quality and price of gas
and rate of dividends, the standard price
of gas then being fixed at 3s. Od. per 1000 ft.
This experiment soon broke down; among
other things the factor of increased cost of
production apart from award wages had not
been taken into account, and when the war
hit up expenses the cos. had to be granted
relief. Instead of the old standard divs. of
10 p.c. on old and 7 p.c. on new capital, the
amended Act of 1918 permitted an 8 p.c.
div. all round and made the cos.' powers of
providing for depreciation more explicit:
they were permitted to set aside annually
an amount not exceeding 31 p.c. of capital
expenditure, limiting the accumulation of
this fund to an amount equal to not more
than 10 p.c. of the borrowed or share capital.
The amended Act also gave the cos. the right
to apply to the Supreme Court, for permission
to increase prices if they could show that
owing to increased cost of production 8 p.c.
divs. could not be earned. Thus in August
last the A.G.L. Co. laid its affairs before
Justice Ferguson and secured an increase to
4s. Bd., and again in November, in conse-
quence of new wages awards and other
increased expenses, secured permission to
increase the price to os. Id. per 1000 ft. as
from January 1 last.
Since the 1918 amendment of the Gas Act
this co. has paid the maximum rate of divi-
dend permitted ; but, as the table shows, the
effort has not been easy. In fact, had the
co. not been allowed to charge more than it
was subsequently discovered it had been
entitled to do during the latter half of 1918
t the management voluntarily dropped the
price Id. per thousand when it discovered
how well it had done), it is questionable
whether the 8 p.c. would have been possible
during recent troublesome terms. But
when comparing the disclosed profits for the
four hair-years—the figures shown above are
the same as those set out in the published
accounts —the depreciation allowances made
by the eo. must also be considered. Exercis-
ing its powers to set aside each year up
to 31 p.c. of capital outlay for “special pur-
poses and depreciation,” the following
amounts have been charged against the
revenue of each term:—
Charged Total at credit
against revenue. of fund.
June, 1918.. £36.308 £36,308
Dec., 1918.. 60,602 94,936
June, 1919.. 40,000 132,070
Dec., 1919.. 20,000 127,358
These appropriations have thus varied
widely, and during the past two terms it
appears that the directors, when deciding
on the extent of the appropriations, have
made the payment of‘B p.c. divs. their first
consideration. If the 31 p.c. p.a. is a
reasonable allowance for depreciation and
“special purposes,” then net profits have been
overstated and the 8 p.c. divs. have not been
earned. For instance, on the past years
average total capital outlay of £3,189,335,
the Act apparently allowed that about
£llO,OOO could have been set aside for de-
preciation, etc. Instead, the directors have
taken only £60,000. Thus they have either
1 1 ) provided insufficient for depreciation, or
(2), if the figures disclosed are the true net
profits, the 34 p.e. allowed by the Act is
admitted to have been too much.
Iu addition to the £8956 of the deprecia-
tion reserves which was spent during the
year on “replacing plant,” £224,012 went m
“repairs and maintenance” of works, mains,
meters, etc. The last line in the following
comparison of the principal working account
items shows how much has been spent on
repairs and maintenance in each of the past
four December terms
Half-year Ending December,—
Revenue — 1916. .1917. 1918. _ 1_919,
Gas .. . . £390,902 £396,107 £478,215 £523,811
Meter rents .. 9,293 8,903 9,962 10,146
Residuals .. 50,591 65,364 81,162 -0,638
107,382 163,798 172.940 222,888
Wages, salaries 69,736 71,136 69,623 80,94/
Management .. 10,717 11.322 13,421 1^.985
Maintenance 78,989 67,465 90,894 123,238
Thus the half-year has had to meet main-
tenance and repair charges £32,344 greater
than for the second term in 1918, and
£44,249 heavier than three years ago. The
figures above also help to demonstrate the
effect of high costs and increased wages,
though in the latter respect the past term
had to bear the weight of a retrospective
wages award.
From the point of view of the consumer
it does not matter much now what the co.
says it makes. It is under an obligation to
provide illumination and heating of specified
standards; the price of gas is regulated so
that shareholders cannot expect under any-
thing resembling present conditions to get
more , than 8 p.c. p.a.; and it can no longer
pile up large reserves, or if it did, the. days
of bonus shares are gone. . There is no
longer any prospect of fat times for share-
holders ; though the present 8 p.c. is sweet
to some of the old hands because of the
capitalisation permitted by the Carmichael
Act. So long as proper provision is made for
depreciation before passing out dividends
A.G.L. shares at reasonable market prices
should still be a sound investment for
maiden-aunts. That the investing public is
satisfied with the co. on its present basis
of limited divs. is demonstrated by the
recent sale of new shares: 30,000 £6 fully-
paids were purchased at auction a week or
two ago at up to ss. premium, some people
thus publicly declaring that instead of 8 p.c.
they considered slightly over 74 p.c. a fair
return on their money. There was a new
issue earlier in the year, too, and altogether
£480.000 of new capital has been got m
during the past 12 months. These additional
funds were badly needed for the extensions
the co. has in hand. Besides the £2,010,000
of proprietors’ capital, the directors are also
working on £1,308,993 of borrowed money,
which, of course, is pow dearer than it used
to be. Five years ago, the co. had the use
of some 34 p.c. loans, and 5 p.c. was the
most it had to pay. Lately, to redeem
£BOO.OOO which fell due, it had to issue an
equal amount of 5-year debentures carry-
ing 0 p.c.
* * * *
The Bank of Queensland (an amal-
gamation of the Royal of Queensland and
the Bank of North Queensland) :
Net To Re- Re-
• Tan.. Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1918 ..£33,019 6 p.c.= £27,000 £6,019 £6,019
1919 , . 34,000 6 „ ~ 27,000 7,000 13,019
1920 .. 40,240 6 „ „ 27,000 13,240 26,259
Disclosed profits for the past 12 months
improved so much that the .surplus after
paying the usual. 6 p.c. div. is greater than
the visible reserves accumulated during the
previous two years. However, net profits are
still a shade under the combined results of
the two old banks. Gross earnings have
expanded considerably; for their lasj; year
in business the two produced '£llo*o9s t last
year the amalgamation disclosed £185,530.
But, mainly or at any rate largely, owing to
increase of salaries, expenses have increased
from £65,681 for the two old concerns in
1917 to £95,593 for the joint concern in the
past 12 months. Thus while the Bank of
Queensland .shows an improvement of 23
p.c. on the combined earnings of the old
Royal and North Queensland banks, expenses
"have increased by over 45 p.c. The old Royal
staff were mostly poorly paid, and a levelling-
up of salaries was necessary. The return of
members of the staff from active service has
also swollen the pay-sheet. And, of course,
both State and Commonwealth taxation has
been considerably increased.
Considering the drought and other troubles
with which Queensland was afflicted last
year, the disclosed profits are good. The
drought was probably as severe as that
experienced in 1902, and the pastoral and
farming interests have had a particularly
rough passage. The cane-fields, in addition,
were knocked about by cyclones and frosts.
High costs and collapsed markets also
resulted in a severe set-back to mining. To
cap these temporary troubles, Queensland is
nowadays run by a Labor Government whose
capers ‘have frightened enterprise. With
these troubles heaped upon the abnormal
conditions created by the war, the way of
the Queensland Bank has not been. easy.
Being a comparatively small bank, with its
interests largely in one State, it cannot
afford to take risks which big competitors
might. For these reasons the balance-sheet
figures are not making much pace. But
there has been some progress:—
1918. 1919. . 1920.
Deposits .. .. £2,904,030 £3,074,617 £3,095,457
Ail other liabilities 152,909 202,827 196,604
Liquid assets .. 1,499,407 1,027,321 1,280,710
Ad\ ances .. .. 1,930,226 2,572,318 2,381,111
Premises .. .. 157,500 155,000 120,000
The bank is thus holding £175,122 more of
the public’s money than it did two years
ago. The liquid position is now much
stronger than it was at the 1919 balance,
when, owing to the heavy strain of financing
customers to take up parcels of Sixth and
Seventh War Loans, the proportion of all
liabilities held liquid was only a little over
51 p.c., compared with 48 p.c. at the pre-
vious balance. Now the proportion has
recovered to just upon 39 p.c. To meet the
£2,011,351 of liabilities not represented by
liquid assets there are advances, etc., with
a book value of £2,381,111, besides £120.000
in premises. And there should be no doubt
as to most of the securities on the books,
for only three years have elapsed since the
managements of the two old banks closely
scrutinised each other’s affairs before agree-
ing to the amalgamation. Though so far the
management has not been able to effect any
visible economy in working exes., it has been
able to release some of its paid capital
which has been tied up in premises—now no
longer required. During the year the old
headquarters of the Bank of North Queens-
land in Brisbane were sold for £16,000, and
the Dook value of all premises during the
year has been reduced by £35,000.
★ ¥r * *
The North Coast Steam Navigation
Co. (N.S.W.) :
Unexplained
Busi- Additions Written
mess. to Ke- Oft' Re- Re-
Dec., Profits, serves. Dividends, serves, serves.
1909. . £18,334 £1,858 8 p.c.= £17,560 £62,159
1910.. 17,903 4,013 8 „ „ 17,500 66,575
1911.. 20,710 8 „ „ 18,629 £3245 65,411
1912.. 24,762 2,789 8 ~ „ .23,420. 69,542
1913.. 27,707 4,466 9 „ „ 27,000 74,715
1914.. 27,234 1,953 9 „ „ 27,000 76,902
1915.. 25,644 2,165 9 ~ „ 27,006 —. 77,711
1916.. 27,516 4,098 9 „ „ 27,000 82,325
1917.. 25,416 4,426 9 ,_, „ 27,000 85,167
1918.. 25,945 3,900 9 „„ 27,000 88,012
1919.. 28,805 22,115 9 „ „ 27,675 111,257
"Labor troubles; influenza epidemic and
drought along the coast caused much in-
convenience and loss of earnings,” say the
directors; then in their accounts they admit
to a record net profit. Further exploration
reveals that during the year no less than
£22,115 has been tacked on to the reserve
for insurance and repairs, making altogether
a surplus for the 12 months of £50,920,
which easily eclipses the effort of any pre-
vious year. ’ Certainly there is a little fresh
capital at work now, for during the period
some of Allen Taylor’s boats were towed
into this fleet; but that purchase necessi-
tated the issue of merely an additional
15,000 fully-paid £1 shares/making the paid
capital £315,000; and, anyhow, the trans-
ferred tonnage was under the co.’s flag for
only five months, during which time the
seamen spent a good deal of time ashore
arguing about wages and working conditions.
The abnormally large growth of reserves sug-
gests at first glance that possibly the Allen
Taylor deal may have been partly, respon-
sible —that perhaps the purchase agree;
ment provided for transfer on terms that
allowed for the interest which the new
shares have in the'co.’s accumulated reserves,
and that afterwards there was some writ-
ing up and adjustment of reserves. The
fact that apparently only £15,000 in shares
was paid, while the book value of 'the
fleet (after providing for depreciation) ex-
panded by £18,676, further suggested that
something of the sort might have taken
place. But a search still deeper in the
accounts shows that all but £4354 of the
year’s surplus was in hard cash assets,
though portion of that amount possibly
represented the set-off for depreciation.
This comparison helps to demonstrate: —
1909. 1918. 1919.
Capital .. ..£218,750 £300,000 £315,000
Liabilities . . . . 23,141 35,915 34,098
Ships . . . . 250,892 225,853 244,529
Wharves, works, etc. 24,316 28,157 28,835
Liquid assets .. 37,592 183,416 201,165
After .deducting the final div. of £13,500
from the liouid surplus of £147 500 as at
December, 1918, there was £134,001 of net
cash assets with which to begin the new
year. At the latest balance net _ liquid
assets totalled £167,067. Add the interim
div., and it will be seen that the cash assets
were increased during the year by £46,566.
As the first table shows, there has been
nothing fat in the way of dividend returns
to shareholders. There have been no issues
of bonus shares, as has been the case in
some of the inter-State shipping cos. Never-
theless regular 9 p.c. divs. are comforting;
meantime the tide of reserves has been
steadily on the make, and these accumula-
tions have been gradually helping earnings
and are paving the way to increased divs.
later on, if things go well. After making
the latest distribution to shareholders the
CO. had surplus liquid assets almost
equal to half'the paid capital, and it is
thus in a good position to expand its ship-
ping interests when opportunity offers. In
the last 10 years £00,250 of new capital
has been got in. During the period a dozen
or so new vessels have been added to the
fleet, besides the recent Allen Taylor
accessions, and there have been a few minor
sal“s and disasters on which insurance has
been collected. But, after all the outlay on
new vessels and maintaining old ones, in
the 10 years the co. has increased its
surplus of more or less liquid assets o\ ei
liabilities by £152,610. So there has been a
little more glitter in the concern than the
payment of 0 p.c. divs. would suggest.
As for the future, this has to be kept in
mind: the new Labor programme includes
the nationalisation of coastal shipping. And
many things are more unlikely than a
Labor victory at the polls next month.
The Victoria Coffee Palace Co. (Mel-
bourne) : „
Written To lie- Re-
Dee., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1908.. £1895 sp.c.= £lOOO £895 £7,714
1909.. 3568 .8* ~ ~ 1700 .• — 1868 9,i»B_,
1910.. 4114 XOA ~ „ 2100 £53 1961 11,54.-’.
1911.. 4853 125 ~ „ 2893 1960 13,503
1912.. 5340 10 „ „ 2600 -- 2746 16,249
1913.. 6653 12* „ 3250 1000 2403 18,652
1914 6933 12* „ „ 3250 746 2937 21,589
1915 7022 15" „ „ 3900 500 2622 24,211
1916.. 6301 15 „ „ 3900 500 1901 26,112
1917.. 5307 15 ~,, 3900 1407 27.519
Reservei capitalised, £13,000 .. 14.519
1918.. 8134 11 ip.c.= 4387 - 3747 18,266
1919.. 8765 161 „ „ 6337 2428 20,694
This co. continues to do very well while
others in the bed-aud-breakfast business
with more than soda-fountains to help
them have stumbled over higher costs
and other troubles. The latest results are
surprising considering the loss of business
during the 'flu epidemic, though no doubt
the return of the Diggers offset that mis-
fortune. This shows the steady progress
the co. has made during the difficult war
years:—-
Revenue. Expenses.
1914 .. £35,308 £28,376
IP],-, .. 37,570 31,048
1916 .. 41,502. 35,701
1917 .. 40,339 35,032
1918 .. 43.688 35,554
1919 . . 47,388 35,882
During the current year there will be a
further substantial increase in exes., owing
to a new award having lifted wages another
£2500 per annum, and in consequence o!
which “the directors are now considering
what adjustments of tariff are necessary.”
Recently an adjoining property. Wrixon’s
Buildings, was acquired for £17,104, and a
contract has been let for the erection <>t
two additional storeys and to effect the
necessary alterations. When the accounts
closed only £2104 of the purchase nriee had
been met, and unless further capital; is
raised there is going to be some scratching
to finance the rest. Here is a comparison
of the balance-sheet figures going back 10
years :- • „ ■ ■
1909. 1918. 1919.
Mortgages, etc. .. £18,57*, £20,162 £19,4,4
Freeholds . . ■ • 43,030 63,735 65,838
Plant, furniture .. 4.945 7,690 ‘>l9o
Liquid assets . . . . 882 5,441 6,03.
At the balance £5739 was held in cash and
War Loan, but £3900 of that was required
to meet the final div. and bonus, leaving
only £1839 to meet sundry creditors for
£4474. So there is nothing to fall back on
there to help finance the £15,000 balance
of purchase price of the new premises and
the alterations. The co. has been very suc-
cessful during the past 10 years; but going
back further unearths an old bone-yard.
The Victoria Coffee Palace was a Melbourne
boom product, and £lOO,OOO of capital was
reckoned to have been lost. For many years
there was a struggle, and until 10 years
ago 5 p.c. divs. were the best that could
be squeezed. But the latest 16;* p.c. div.
is actually better than it looks because of
the restoration of capital from £26,000 to
£39,000 by a bonus share issue two years
ago. During the past 10 years the excess of
liabilities over more or less liquid assets
has been reduced by £4758; meantime
£6OOO of new capital has been got in. In
addition to paying handsome dividends on
the greatly reduced capital, all but £1242
of the very substantial additions to fixed
assets have been provided by surplus profits.
The book value of these fixed assets (de-
ducting depreciation reserve) has grown by
over £25,000 since 1909. an amount almost
equal to the paid capital at that date.
The Gold Producers’ Association has made
a net profit of £627,370 in the 10 months
of its existence. Of this Westralia took
£436.537, Queensland £84,261, Vic. £73.859
and N.S.W. £27,277. The premiums received
during the last half-year averaged 13s. an
oz. Taking the Mint buying price at 78s.
an oz., the price per oz. of gold sold abroad,
chiefly in the Orient, was 91s. an oz., which
is still a long way below £6 35., a recent
cabled quotation. It would be interesting
to learn where the difference went and what
was the actual cost of disposing of the gold.


The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the home garage is now within th- reach
of every motorist. The G.E. Mercury Arc Batterv
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of eneigy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere trifle compared with the
convenience and economy of home chamng An
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efficiency of a batterv, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company. Wentworth Avenue, Sydney: and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.—A dvt.
* * * *
Water is a valuable asset in summer for drinking
concentrating or boiler purposes. Why not use
Alummoferric and have it clear and crystalline »
Alum inoferne is thrown into the water as a solid
or added as a liquid. One pound clarifies from
tu ° , t 0 t hre e thousand gallons of most turbid water
within three hours. Write for full facts to William
Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide
Brisbane, Perth.— Advt.
* * * L
For grinding all (lasses of material in Bail Mills
and Tube Mills it is necessary to have a suitable
grinding medium. The mines in West Australia
also numerous cement plants, are using bails of forged
tyre steel, and find that they give excellent results
ihese balls may be obtained in various sizes froni
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of Melbourne, who
have put in a special plant for forging them, and
can give delivery of most sizes from stock This
d?^ P £!. y n rnal,ufactu res forged steel shoes and
dies for battery work. —Advt. 13
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.—Copy of extract received
p,™ *he Victorian Hardwood Milling & Seasoning Co.
Ptj., Ltd., 20th February, 1919: “In reference to your
eommuni eation of the 13th inst., we hafe to state
that the wooden pipes supplied by your Companv
have given entire satisfaction and are in a thorough
good state of preservation. (Sgd.) Chris. Ingram,
Managing Director.’’ Send for our illustrated cata-
The Australian Wood Pipe Companv Ltd.,
(H. 0.) Burns Bay Road, Longueville, N.S.W. Con-
tractors to all State Governments. —Advt.
* # * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney links Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. i London) ; Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work ; contractors advised ; railway work
90 Queen-street, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * *
Ihe ever-increasing wages for labor are causing
more attention to be given to mechanical appliances
for saving labor wherever possible. Messrs. Arthur
Leplastner and Co., Circular Quay (East), Sydney, who
maintain a special engineering department for this
class of work, will supply drawings and estimates of
equipment to suit any requirement. Put your pro-
posals up to them. Queensland inquiries: The Austra-
lian Machinery Co., Ltd., Mary Street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
* * * #
IDEAS. Commonwealth and Foreign 'Patents
obtained, Coli.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors* Guide.— Advt.
♦ * * *
T. 11. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street. Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne. — Advt.
* • « •
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces. Pure Chemicals, at lowest
w i all ° r write for Particulars. 11. B. Selby Si Co.,
a-'}." »A s o George Street (between Hunter and Bond
btieets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt.
/£*RIBORNT#
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
Tk ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 244,396
Paid-up Capital .. 122,000
Income (Cross) 1918 .. 457,852
Established I'JIO.
ACENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. JJ. CA VK, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOI.YmtEMTi::
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit Mo S 3.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WO*.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
rhePadfic Zable Board
“7aS ZEALAND, “E™*
, * 1.1.K-KN'D” rate is now available
fiom Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
i"!”;.,' 0 be Posted from Canada.
Hjy.K-b.\D messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
m itain and Canada on the following
Monday morning. s
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.’’
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. s/. 1/6 /M. (minimum
New Zealand.,
Canada
vuiuiuuuui
16/-, 20 words)
J 7d. (minimum
1 11/8,20 words)
8/-
4Jd.
2/4 1/2
• **/wj -v nuiuo;
u. S. A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4 / 7d - ( minimum
i.. . io- ’ l 11/8,20 words)
a«i n'*A Se 7 t(: \ With . the United Kingdom
ana V.b.A. has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru? West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
CaWe forms, Deferred s and
Meek_end Reffulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD.
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (8 lines!
Quean B*Souse,Queen st., Melbourne. Tel. 2588!
J. MU-AY ARD. Manager in th« p.,mfl c
—, 77 pjtt Street, SYDNEY, —•
61 YEARS’ REPUTATION.
PIONEER Leather Belting'.
guaranteed by J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON LTD.,
TANNERS ft LEATHER BELT MAKERS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
... ESTABLISHED in 1858.
A. Victor Leggo & Co.
Melbourne -Sydney—Brisbane.
Manufacturers Metallurgists Merchants.
Exporters and Importers.
Specialties: INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS, INDUSTRIAL MINERALS,
ORES, METALS AND RAW MATERIALS.
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Other Goods.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Here is the tale of Badak so far as it has
got. T. W. Orton, formerly a winchman
on one of the Ivampong dredges, prospected
the area and introduced it to Melbourne,
where a prospecting syndicate of 200 shares
of £3O each was formed. Orton then pro-
ceeded to do some boring, and when he
reported 201 b. ground in August last shares
shot to £125, with a subsequent slide to
£22 when doubts- were cast upon the bore
samples. Orton followed with a report on
four others giving almost equally rich re-
turns. Thereupon the market began to lose
its head. Meantime, the syndicate’s capital
having run out, a further 200 shares were
issued in order to despatch W. Wilson to
do some check-boring. After much delay
word came at last that the first check-bore
had bottomed at 31ft. and shown 191 b.
ground. Thereupon shares shot: from £l7O
to £1125. Weeks elapsed before Wilson was
next heard of, and then it was to say that
four check-bores and one put dow r n mid-
way between two of Orton’s had given 20.82,
1, 27.1, 19.2 and 14.991 b. values. It was
then that the market witnessed the sale of
a £lO share for £2OOO, at which figure a
market valuation of £BOO,OOO was placed
on a show of 5000 acres on which only
five original and six check-bores had been
put down.
Melbourne now anxiously awaits the re-
turn of Wilson with his samples, and then
just a little more may be learnt about the
show. Thus far, ow'ing to the fewness of the
bores and their irregular location, neither
Orton, Wilson nor anybody else can declare
that Badak will prove an Arabian Nights’
wonder. Very high bore-values in certain
spots are not unusual, especially when the
area bored is near the source of tin. E. J.
Vallentine, one of the leading English min-
ing-engineers in Malaya, can tell of one
property which produced a 2001 b. bore. Ex-
perienced tin-men regard high bore results
with suspicion, and either reduce or discard
them when computing averages. There is
the instance of Trong’s 750 acres in Malaya,
which showed one 23ft. bore giving 13.201 b.
values and eight others going over 51b. Yet
when Trong proceeded to work the property
it proved a dud. This fairly recent lesson
has been lost on Badak market adventurers.
The position now is that nobody knows
the value of the Badak property; close
boring alone will indicate its worth. To
datq, nobody has even attested that the area
is suitable for bucket-dredging, and without
getting down to such hard facts statements
like that cabled from Wilson that he was
“satisfied property good” count for very
little. Some of the hard-headed tin-men in
Malaya who know the Badak country scoff
at the suggestion that Badak is going to
prove something out of the box; one well-
known Australian even questions whether
Badak will ultimately provide 100 acres to
average a pound. He may be entirely wrong,
of course, and Badak may prove a valuable
proposition, though perhaps not worth
£800,000; but certainly a dozen bores do
not establish its value. Until the
area is proved anybody with an inclina-
tion to plunge had better memorise the motto:
liemember Trong!
* * * *
Tongkah Compound started in the Tong-
kali boom with a choice 53 acres of fore-
shore. Since then its dredge has ploughed
through over 90 acres and provided 28s. lOd.
per share in divs. on a paid
capital of £50,000 (150,000 shares of 6s.
Sd. each). Even then at the latest balance
there were these liquid assets on the books:
Cash, £16,932; shares in Compound No. 2
£7210; stores, spares, etc., £13,624; and
sundry debtors, £4522. Since only £6518
was owing, there was thus a liquid surplus
of £35,000, equal to 4s. Bd. per share. But
cash assets will have to be cut into to reno-
vate the co.’s overworked dredge and pro-
vide plant to handle new areas. Of these,
Compound No. 2 contains 117 acres averag-
ing ,931 b. tin oxide. Then there are 114
acres in F.M.S. which have bored out to
an average of .971 b., and a further 120
acres adjoining this property have just been
acquired from the Government. In addi-
tion there is the property near Puket, bored
by Bethune, information concerning which
caused a flutter and a rumpus in Melbourne
a couple of weeks ago. The last six months’
clean-up from the old area gave 282 J tons
409,099 cub. yd., or an average
°f per yard, and yielding a profit
ot £20.842. Or, giving cash values, tin con-
tents were worth 23.13 d. per yard ; and as
costs took 7.96 d., the net profit worked out
at 35.35 d. ner yard—good going for an area
about to give up the ghost.
* * * •
The outlook for the Australian molybde-
nite producer appears to be brightening.
During the war the whole of the Common-
wealth’s output of rare metals was acquired
by the British Government, on the basis
of 100 s. per unit for molybdenite and 525.
6d. for tungsten, prices considerably under
those ruling in the market. Since the
Armistice, however, the market collapsed
so badly that but for the British contract
most Australian mines would have had to
suspend operations, London prices having
slumped to 80s. per unit for molybdenite
and 30s. for tungsten, and New York prices
to 755. and 35-555. (according to grade)
respectively. Reviewing its stocks after
the war, and seeing a collapse imminent, the
British Government made an attempt to
cancel its contracts, offering substantial
compensation in lieu of delivery. Burma
and Maoriland agreed; but the Common-
wealth held out and production has con-
tinued, even in mines producing stuff
under standard grade, the Government’s
agents (Dalgety and Co.) blending pur-
chases to give the contract standard. This
purchasing agreement lapses on March 31
next, and since it was known that the
British Government held large stocks the
Australian producer has been wondering
what was going to happen to him.
Now comes the cabled news that Govern-
ment stocks have been almost depleted by
large sales to British steel manufacturers,
and also that the market has recovered to
such an extent that molybdenite has touched
100 s. (equal to about 90s. to the Australian
producer), and that sales of tungsten have
been made to Europe at 355. The big im-
provement in the price of molybdenite was
unexpected. During recent years the metal
has been the subject of considerable con-
troversy, but lately Dr. J. Arnold, discoverer
of vanadium steel, has come out with a new
molybdenum steel with “cutting powers far
in advance of any qualities of any other high-
speed steel.” He is now investigating six
other molybdenum steels, but his research
work will not be complete till about June.
Meantime he ventures the opinion that the
“best results in high-speed steel are to be
got with molybdenum,” and that “6 p.c. of
molybdenum will replace with superior re-
sult 18 p.c. of tungsten.” Already British
steel manufacturers are looking round for
likely sources of permanent supply of the
alloy; and Americans are also in the field.
Perhaps that explains why the B. H.
Prop.’s long-sighted g.m., G. D. Delprat, has
been holding an to the option on portion of
the Mammoth Molybdenite property.
In view of recent developments, it is
possible that, instead of the British Govern-
ment readily allowing its Australian contract
to lapse in March, pressure may be put
en it by British steel-masters to secure a
renewal _to assure a regular supply at a
fixed price, particularly in view of the
British Government Committee report dur-
ing the war which recommended the State
control of key industries in future. Any-
how, Australian producers will need to keep
a watchful eye on events during the next
few months to see that no arrangement is
come to which would be likely to rob them
of the full value of their product for the
benefit of English steel barons.
* * * *
General Monash has been given a job:
he has been appointed local director of the
Atlas Assurance, a co. which divides its
Australian-made profits among people at
the other end of the earth.
* * * *
Dr. Chapman, of Sydney University, the
Government’s Commissioner, has begun his
inquiry into the alleged prevalence of pneu-
monia in Broken Hill mines: and some of
the cos. don t seem to be co-operating with
overpowering cordiality.
♦ * * «
White Hope, Hampton Plains, has
apparently the makings of a big mine. The
latest development has been the striking
of the lode in the east crosscut at 50ft.
in the Discovery shaft; this is claimed
to assure a length of about 520 ft. of good
ore on the line of lode.” So when Robin-
i k Co., of London, secured
5(,000 shares for £67.000 and obtained an
option on the remaining 30.000 unissued
shares at £2 apiece, the firm probably
made a very good deal. The same crowd
was willing to finance the Mutooroo, which
has a promising show and no cash; but
the offer was cold-shouldered by the
Mutooroo Board. R. C. and Co.’s latest
has been to get hold of Hampton Uruguay
Co., which owns Block 48. on which the
Vi hite and almost a dozen other brands of
Hopes are nesting. For a start the old
Uruguay has been knocked on
head and the remains passed over to
Hampton Gold Mining Areas, Ltd., with
a nommal capital of half a million in £1
shares, 100X100 shares being held in reserve
and 140X300 being offered to the public at
par. Debenture-holders in the old co.
must kfjve received a shock the other day
when £4B 000 in cash suddenly flowed their
way. Besides setting out to mine on its
own account, the co. will, no doubt, float
off some of its reserve blocks in London.
* * * •
Bullfinch Prop, has at last a footing on
Hampton I lams. Some months ago it tried
and failed to get hold of a block the manage-
ment fancied, 1 ' and later refused an option
at the north end of the Celebration line,
subsequently it pegeed, and a month later
abandoned, a saltbush block at Wombola,
near Mt. Monger, Now it has secured Tre-
loar’s lease, north-west of the Mutooroo and
two blocks away from that show. Good
‘loams” .have been obtained.
* * *
Another Victorian has been having a look
at the miles of abandoned deep-leads at
Ivanowna (W.A.), and has applied to the
Government for a lease of a big area. Many
others have tried this ground and failed,
-f here is no visible reason to expect a dif-
ferent result under present less favorable
circumstances.
At the Ivalgurli meeting in London chair-
man Stafford said that recent developments
had made available a fair supply of payable
ore, but had exposed nothing to get excited
The co. holds investments worth
±56,000, equal to almost half of the paid
capital, and has a substantial cash balance
besides.
• * » ■*
r, " hen E. C. Dyason introduced the
Bendigo Amalgamated he estimated that on
a capital of ±380,000 an annual profit of
not less than £63,000 should flow in, thus
returning over 16 p.c. p.a. to shareholders.
1 urther, he forecasted that as organisation
improved still better profits should show up.
War troubles splintered Dyason’s estimates,
and the failure of half a dozen promis'ng-
looking veteran shows to do their bit further
upset anticipations. Here is the record to
date:—-
Loss. Profit.
Pee., 1917 ..£38,459 June, 1919 .. £2,934
June, 1918 ... 20,382 Dec., 1919 .. 31,250
Dec., 1918 .. 10,718
Of the profit of £34,184 shown for the past
12 months no less than £27,378 came from
premiums on gold exported. This was some
reward for Dyason’s efforts in successfully
establishing the Gold Producers’ Association
and securing permission to export the yellow
metal. From a glance at Moline’s monthly
bulletins it is obvious that these windfalls
have been badly needed. But for the Con-
stellation and the gold premiums the co.
would be having a very rocky passage. Last
month Constellation gave an average of
965. per ton milled, and now it puts up a
record from plum-pudding stone of 1160 oz.
from 361 tons. The other big producers,
Unity and Carlisle, are meantime giving only
16s. and 20s. per ton respectively. What
difference a few ’weights would make to
either claim! According to Moline, the Con-
stellation outlook is as satisfactory as at
any previous period, although he ’ frankly
admits that the northern limits of the shoot
are being narrowed month by month. When
he gets the McDuff shaft re-opened and the
drill at work, it will not take long to fix
that limit definitely. The need of the Amal-
gamated is another prize like the Constella-
tion. Perhaps feomething may come from
the New Victoria Catherine, at the extreme
northern end of the Sheepshead line, wlr'ch
was broucht into the fold so that entirely
new ground could be given a go.
* * * *
John Friel, at the Loch Fyne, Matlock
k lc y ’ 1400 tons ore during’ the
show’s latest half-year, and was rewarded
with llS6oz. gold, the latest crushing of
390 tons giving 400 oz. After meeting all
exes, and providing a trifle for deprecia-
tion of plant, there was a loss of £846. But
the Loch Fyne crowd is hoping for much
better things during the current half. In
th£ drive at 100 ft. a crosscut has been put
out in a “full body of ore’’ for 155 ft. Crush-
ing material during the term came from 50ft.
alone this drive, where stoping on a reef
going from 2ft. to 3ft. is progressing towards
the western wall of the dyke bulge. And
as the ore body in the stope is considerably
west of old workings on higher levels, John
± riel remarks that it appears that this
shoot was missed, while Chairman Army-
tage ventures the opinion that “on the evi-
dence an extensive body of ore should be
available.” Other formations on the drive
are being opened up on a plan of campaign
agreed upon by Mines Dept. Geologist
VYhitelaw and manager Friel. Meantime the
directors fire out uftcr more miners in
an effort to keep the battery going to try
to stave off calls. Cash assets at the bal-
ance amounted to £1091: and only £351
?u as , to sunc * rv creditors apart from
1 W e t 0 ven< !ors. who are being
pa d off by instalments of 5 p.c. of gross
gold proceeds.
* * * ,
J. W. Glover, having worked out Duke and
Main Leads Consols (Vic.), is trying his
luck quartz-reefing at Rutherglen. In Dun-
can Mcßryde’s day the Great Southern, an
ahuvial show there, cut through a big reef
in-its shaft and got decent returps. Water
and the _ alluvial man’s dislike for reefing
resulted in the stone being neglected till lon<r
?“. e _ r le °! d hands left the deep-lead. lii
l'!l5 Curtain and Cross bought the mine
4 nd ii^ rt . ed ( f ' vith . 2300 - from 80 tons.
1400 tons broken since then have panned
out about an ounce, with occasional star
j.eJds, thaj* inducement has been pro-
yided for Glover and his Ballarat pals to
have a go. They are to make for below
the water-level at 290 ft., and as the reef n
exposed at 390 ft. they have more than a
prospect to lure them on. n a
* * *
Though Gundagai Long Tunnel
.(N.S.W.) has over 1000 tons of ore waif.
1 e n i b , e fed , to its battel '.V, the show* LS
still held up for want of water. Prayers
tor ram having proved ineffective, the
directors have now decided to apply for a
paitial of labor conditions,
lncidentallj, J. Allen, who took over the
mine when Geo. Hepburn dropped out, and
on whose knowledge of the Long Tunnel
country many supporters depended to con-
found Mines Dept, and other critics lias
resigned. H. Kenny, underground manager
takes a step up. ’


“LEAVE ME—LEAVE ME TO MY PIDDLE!”


Xaiue.
Slate.
Age al
Promotion.
Ycn. Mos.
now.
Uennett, H. G...
Vic.
211
7
ay
Canaan, J. H. ..
*1
31
37
Stewart, 3. C. . .
ic.
34
0
30
I>rnk«.‘-Brockman. K. A.
M .A.
34
2
So
“ Blarney, T. A. ..
X.S.W.
31
r>
3«
0. U. ..
Vic.
34
7
36
•Llcfvd. >1. \V
Vic.
34
11
3«
ChtllijiN. O.
Q.
3. r .
•1
37
Smith, it.
A'if.
38
Mackar, J. G
x.s.w.
ae
2
37
Herring-, R. <2...
X.S.W
so
8
38
m
9H
'sar-** l *
ijpail
JliasikiiD
Mffr nj
min
iB
••
I II ,
llllll'^ml
*>
/rom PirredYa//
I”'COOL and
REFRESHING •••
XAz
Are you imprisoned in an invisible cage?
Do you experience that awful loneliness only
known to those who cannot hear?
Why remain out of it whilst your friends
are enjoying themselves?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
has been proved by thousands of Australasian
utizens with over 8 years of daily use, in
business, the Theatre and Church.
It is recommended by the leading Ear
Specialists, and is in every respect a
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
The Mears Ear-Phone is positively the small-
est, neatest and most scientific instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.
May we send you a little booklet, and
place before you our FREE TRIAL OFFER ?
You will be under absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO,
12 Bernard's Building, 387 George St., Sydney.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARftING ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CHBESEMAIS.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
“Rio”: Several States are claiming that
“Australia’s youngest general” belongs to
them. As previously pointed out in The
Bulletin, Brig.-General Id. G. Bennett wins
this competition easily, as he was only 29
when he first put up the cross-swords; but to
settle all arguments here is a complete list
of Australia’s young generals :
Those marked with the asterisk are per-
manent officers. Lloyd and Phillips are field
artillery, Blarney and Jess staff, the other
infantry.
A conspicuous legal gentleman of Mel-
bourne, whose irascible temper is the basis
of many tales, not very long ago was sorely
afflicted in spirit on learning that his new
neighbor, whose property was too adjacent
for the comfort of a light sleeper, had a
hundred hens and ten children. Choleric
notes flew r from old Horsehair to Mr.
Peter Familias. First the complaint was
of the diabolical
row the p oult r y
made at dawn,
at false dawn,
and during the
earlier morning
hours. Then there
were bitter com-
plaints of the
noise the children
made, and of their
depredations. After
this bitterness had
been maintained for
two months, Peter
Familias replied to
a particularly viru-
lent note with the
soft answer that
t u r n e t h away
wrath. He wrote:
“We are eating the
chickens as fast as
we 'can. Awa i t
yo u r instructions
with regard to the
children.” The
reply came
instantly. “Solu-
t i o n adequate.
Have no desire to
vary the finding.”
BRIG.-GEN.
CUSCADEN, of
the A.M.G.,
Melbourne.
With the probable retirement of C. A.
Lee and the definite passing of J. Perry to
the Upper House, N.S.W. Assembly loses its
two oldest members. Lee has the longest
undisturbed political service; but Perry, who
represents cud-chewing Byron Bay, has hung
on for 31 years. He was Whip for the
Dibbs-Lyne combination in 1899. and a
Minister in the Lyne, See, Waddell and
Wade Ministries.
Harold George Nelson, the A.W.U. branch
secretary who is the real dictator of Darwin
and the" prime mover in the deportation and
other incidents that led up to the Ewing
Commission, is a dark, hard-faced, square-
jawed man of middle height, and strongly
built —a slightly softened edition of Willie
Watt. In his youth (he is 39 now) he was
a bit of a pug., and if he were pushed to it
he could still use his hands. He was a car-
penter before he became a secretary, and
lack of education is a handicap which he
has gone a long way to overcome. A good
citizen with six children, Nelson has been
a battler for the Territory in many ways.
Even those who have been up against him
hard usually admit that he is a straight
man in his dealings. If the Territory gets
its promised representation Senator Nelson
will be its first member unless there is a
big change—that is, if he wants the job.
If he does the North will have a live repre-
sentative in the Fed. Parliament. He knows
something more than Darwin, too, for he
has been about the backblocks of the Terri-
tory and also in Western Queensland.
CAPTAIN
JOE
HATCH,
of the
Macquarie Island
Penguin Oil In-
dustry, who wants
to have a public
debate with Frank
Hurley on the
question of the
cruelty of boiling
penguins.
Three of the new Queensland nominee
M’s.L.C. are secretaries of trades unions,
two are organisers of unions, one is presi-
dent of a union, and one secretary of an
Eight Hours Celebration Committee. Three
are employed on Labor papers ; two connected
with the public-house interest: one is simply
described as a politician defeated at last
election, and one is a horny-handed toiler —
an optician. Thirteen are Brisbane men and
the fourteenth runs a pub at Maryborough,
a little way up the coast.
From under the Bar table : «
The resent elevation to the Bench of Irvine,
Starke and McArthur-, and four others of ni'ddling
ability—Schutt, Mann, Williams and Dethridge—has
left the Victorian Bar weaker than it has been for
years. And it was not conspicuously strong before
they went. Starke and Irvine were as good as the
best, but Schutt (whose service in the Navy Office
probably had something to do with his appointment)
and Mann are not dazzling substitutes on the Supreme
Court Bench for a’Beckett and Hood. The County
Court Bench has always been weak, and Williams
and Dethridge are not likely to strengthen it. Wasley
alone has shown very special ability in this court,
and but for the convention which frowns at the idea
of a Judge “bettering his position” he would probably
have been given a Supreme Court billet. Mitchell
and Weigall are the only K.C.’s now practising, and
none of the remaining men rise above mediocrity.
The most picturesque is Maxwell, M.H.R., but his
practice is chiefly confined to the Criminal Court,
where he makes a specialty of emotional appeals to
juries. J. G. Latham has dignity and law, but less
personality; C. H. A. Eager and Leo Cugsen arc
still sufficiently young to be “promising”; J. R.
Macfarland carries some weight, and A- C. Morley’s
knowledge of accountancy stands him in good
stead in certain cases. The trouble with Morley is
that he suffers from the delusion that he is not a
K.C. through an unaccountable oversight on the
part of the authorities. Apart from the two silks,
Bryant stands head and shoulders above the rest.
Like Morley he loves to score - off his bewigged
brethren, and is not without the talent to do it.
January 31 saw the closing of the Darwin
establishment of Philip 11. Allen and Co.,
the oldest-established firm in the Northern
Territory, after 46 years’ trading. The busi-
ness was started by the founder, old P. 11.
Allen, in the hope that Palmerston (now
Darwin) would develop into the Singapore
of Australia. The house was looked upon at
one time almost as a philanthropic institu-
tion because of the assistance it gave the
old type of miner in the way of advances
of stores for mine-development and pros-
pecting.
The brainy Walter Murdoch, who, because
he was an Australian and hated stodge, was
not considered suitable for a professorship
at Melbourne ’Varsity, and so gave up the
job of Lecturer on Literature to take a posi-
tion on the Argus until he became Profes-
sor of Literature at Perth University, has
been selected by Deakin’s literary executor
(son-in-law Herbert Brookes) to write the
authorised life of the affable statesman,
lie can be relied upon to make a good job
of it.
F. T. Brent nail, M.L.C., who has been
prominent in denouncing the new appoint-
ments to the Queensland Leg. Council, is in
his 86th year. He used to be a Methodist
minister, and while in charge of the Wagga
church he performed the marriage ceremony
for Tom Castro, the Tichborne claimant, and
the woman who went to England as his wife.
“J.S.H.” : When the Vic. railway strike of
1903 was at its worst, and Iceberg Irvine
had called for A r olunteers, a young man
named Baker volunteered for a fireman’s job
and did his whack well. I don’t suppose he
has forgotten the night he was set upon by
a party of strikers as he left the sheds, and
had his clothes torn off his back. If the
new Bishop of Bendigo can hit as hard
from the pulpit as he did on that occasion
he need have no fear about drafting the
goldfield toughs to the Better Land.
Died, Robert Peary, of the U.S.A., the
man who “found the North Pole”; and if
he did it no Pole was ever found under
more shady circumstances. The explorer
was aged 53 when he made his alleged
discovery and had been hunting poles for
23 years without bagging one. It' was
recognised that the expedition of 1908
would be his last, it not being the kind of
job for elderly men, and he had to win then
or permanently fail. He told his intimates
that he would win. When he got among
his old haunts up north he sent back one
of the white scientists who accompanied
him (the scientist was drowned, by the
way). A little further he gave peremptory
orders to his last white companion, an old
and valuable colleague, to camp and wait.
Then Peary went on with four Eskimo,
who could take no observations and
wouldn’t know whether they were at the
Pole or 250 miles short of it, and an
equally ignorant nigger. Within a few
weeks the Uncorroborated Explorer was back
saying he had found the Pole. The pace,
when no one was looking, was wonderful.
The northern apex of the earth being
movable ice—not solid land like the south-
ern one —evidence is hard to leave and
harder to find, a circumstance which nobody
knew better than Robert Peary.
North Queensland’s ancient seafaring
identity, Henry James Sparshott, recently
went up aloft at Bowen, aged 82. Educated
at Greenwich (London) he joined the
mercantile marine, and was on transport
work during the Crimean War. Later
he joined the Queensland lighthouse : service,
and kept to that for 40 yeai-s.
“Islander”: The “mission” which has gone
to India to try to secure the removal of
the embargo on the emigration of Indian
coolies to Fiji (B. 32/2/’2O) consists of
Bishop Twitchell of Polynesia and R. S. D.
Rankine, Treasurer of Fiji. It is putting
it to the Government of India that the
indenture system is dead or about to d'e.
and urging that voluntary emigration should
be allowed. The Fijian planters have been
given permission to see if they can recruit
1000 laborers in the Line Islands, but they
reckon that those will be but a drop in the
bucket.
Fred Whitehead is the A.J.A.’s fourth
president, and all have been Victorians,
while three of the four have been drawn
from the Herald. The fact that this jour-
nalists’ union headquarters are in Melbourne
has had the effect of narrowing the field of
selection for office-bearers to that village,
which is unfortunate but practically un-
avoidable in view of the big Australian dis-
tances and the demands of the inky grind.
The new vice-presidents are two Argus men.
Bob Lowry and Harry Brennan, brother of
the M.H.R. whom the Argus delights to
jump upon.
“Billy T.” : I first heard Henry Parkes in a
hall in Swanston-street nearly opposite the
Public Library. I don’t remember what had
brought him to Melbourne, but a full house
choked the gangways, people being more
anxious to see than to hear the proprietor of
the most aggressive head of hair in Aus-
tralia. I can remember Parkes coming to
the edge of the platform looking huge, his
hand raised to still the tumult of welcome.
Then his other hand went into the breast
of his coat, and he spoke. The effect was
amazing. In expectation the audience
already heard a great organ tone to fit the
figure. Instead there issued forth a thin,
tinny voice, like the most attenuated bleat
of the little lamb that Mary had. Tittering
broke out in patches, and then the audience
laughed. Later, talking to us pressmen,
Parkes said: “Hon my soul. Hi didn’t intend
to jest. Hi know perfectly well what Hi
did sav—Hi’d give something to know what
they thought Hi said.”
A couple of Australian prophets without
honor in their own country get a piention
in an article by Ewen MacKinnon on the
use of electricity to increase crop-production,
published in Science and Industry. He
points out that most writers who have dealt
with the recent experiments of 11. E. Fry,
an English electrician, in the electrification
of seeds consider this a virgin field.
but that two S.
Australians, But-
terfield and Bar-
clay, were on the
same track a dozen
years ago, and
that some work on
similar lines was
also carried out at
Hawkesbury Co 1-
lege (N.S.W.). In
S.A, an ordinary
medical coil was
used to electrify
the seed for from
three to five
minutes while it
was steeped in a
solution of copper
sulphate. It is
said in the N.S.W.
AgEICCLT URAL
Gazette for 1908
that Barclay had
increased his yield
by 40 per cent.
Fry worked out his
method indepen-
dently but on
similar lines.
STARKE , the new
High Court Judge.
J. A. An till, who died lately in Sydney
at 85, was the youngest son of that Major
Henry Colden Antill who came to Sydney
as Gov. Macquarie’s ADC. in 1809, and
later was one of the party that accompanied
his Ex. over the Blue Mountains to
the laying out of Bathurst. Major
Antill (a Peninsular and India veteran)
retired after 25 years’ service and settled at
the foot of the mountains on a grant, which
he called Picton after his old Peninsular
leader. His son J.A., who was educated
at King’s School, was a bank clerk at
Ballarat during the trouble at the Stockade.
After digging a bit, and banking a bit, he
was Kalgoorlie Miner’s leader-writer until
he retired four years ago.
William Youles Brown (all the members
of this family are Voules), who died in
S. Australia a few days ago, reckoned he
was the first white infant born at Port
Adelaide —it happened early in 1839. His
parents were at Kangaroo Island before the
site of the capital was fixed. After a while
they got land at Brighton and alongside
their Thatched House Tavern (still licensed)
they started a cemetery; and that is going
strong too. Later on half the family went
to the Northern Territory, and J.A.V. was
one of the last M’s.P. for the vast district
before the Commonwealth took it over; this
one roamed farther south, and, after break-
ing in the horse that Stephen King rode to
the. Gulf with McDouall Stuart, settled
down to keep 30 pubs, and never had a black
mark on a single license.
Port Adelaide lias lost Colin McLachlau.
its best-known ship captain. He came from
Scotland as a small boy, had his own ship
before he was 21, helped to survey the S.A.
coast, and lived to potter about it till he
was 76.
J. A. Macdonald, just dead in Adelaide,
bad been chief draughtsman to the Municipal
Tramway Trust since it started. Before
that he was in M.L. —also under Goodman,
now of Adelaide —designing trams or power
or lighting systems. He had got a first-
class training under Caird and Co., the
Glasgow shipbuilders, and with the P. and O.
Joseph Rowan, a Tipperary boy, who
took himself very seriously as a Clerk of
Courts, P.M. and mining warden until the
time of his retirement about 10 years ago,
passed out last week at St. Kilda (Vic.),
aged 76. He was very proud of his reserved
judgments in mining suits and had many of
them published in the Melbourne dailies.
Letcher, deputy chief-of-staff of the
Argus and one of the pillars of the A.J.A..
has been secured by the Melbourne Chamber
of Commerce as “industrial adviser.” He
is the second A.J.A. ex-president to be
selected for a job of the kind. Bert Cook,
for many years political roundsman on the
Herald, holds a similar position with the
big Broken Hill cos.
Manners have changed. Adelaide hasn’t
filled even one of its churches with a meet-
ing of protest against a Governor who horse-
races. But there was a time when the
“man Rogers,” of Downing-street, having
appointed as S. Aus.’s Governor one Lawley,
a young man of high family, who was “on
the turf.” there was a storm of protest, and
South Aus. legislators even petitioned the
Queen to keep the doubtful young man at
home. And so she did.
THE OLD MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Ah, well!”
Leisurely smoke that drifts and disappears;
The long, low, cool verandah; the dark tiers
Of hills against a purple sky
Trembling with stars ; while he and I
Swap yarns and watch the hours go by
Anon, a mopoke-hoot, faint in our ears.
“Ah, well!”
“I recollect” —
He pauses gently in mid-anecdote;
And now he wonders how the smoke-wreaths float
So faery-fine and each grave tree
Allures his eyes, that would but see
Down the deep path of memory.
The slow voice falters on a drowsy, note
“I recollect.”
“Ah, well!”
His reverie returns; the words come slow.
And I, conscious of dream-blind eyes aglow,
Watch how, with story half-begun,
He sees the smiling fancies run
Out where an old familiar sun
Shines on the green charmed hills of long ago.
“Ah, well!”
■N.S.W.
ANDREW H. WALPOLE.


T
a
a
a
tr:
C
i
a
r£ ;: l
§&@
M-
ws?
fSfi 5
KpSii
'iK
HIH
c- ■:
«*SM!
mffm
m
#l*o
Wp£
\im
■A
m
■
mm
Mm
msm
sbs
;;M
v;TK
2'Ys
InWMi
CsN
H&srara
sisss
mm
mmm
amm
S^SS^BK
sMsm
HHV^J
..
mSmm
f mjm
Wzmm*
tf
S^-rv^jn
wM
mm
m:
K Msh
X*o
9HR
tss
Ivi
*£&&$&&&
IP;
■m
ISsISB
SiSBSSK
MB
issaiiii
mi
sags
ffi-
JSS
iS
BESra
EVER was quality more demanded than
to-day, and never were we more insistent
that quality be maintained in our Austral
Sac Suits to Measure.
Let us show you samples of our cloths, and then let us make you a suit
cut and tailored to your own form, to fit you—yourself. It will bear the
stamp of your own individuality, your own personality. This is what you
will find in “Austral” Tailoring—quality and individuality—and every
wearer of Gowing Bros.’ “Austral Sac Suits, made to measure, can tell
you the same.
“Austral” Sac Suits
TO MEASURE
95/-, 105/-, 115/-, £6|6/-, £6/15/-, £7/7/-, £B|B/-,
£B/15/-, £9/9/-, £lO/10/-
Coun t ry Customers write for Patterns.
To any address throughout Australia we send patterns with
tape-measure and forms for self-measurement free on request.
And not only do we pay the carriage, hut guarantee the
customer absolute satisfaction.
Carriage Paid on all Comi tr y Orders.
m|
Everything for Men’s and Boys’ Wear.
486-490 George Street, 3-17 Royal Arcade,
Branch Store at 304 George Street (near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.


355
«N
JACKET-SWEATERS
Pure Wool —Good Substantial Weight*
Buv a “Warrignl” .Jacket Shelter EARLY for Easter
and Winter. A 10 per cent, rise is already inti-
mated by manufacturers; aid English cables advise
January prices doubled. This Sweater is Australian
- —pure wool of good warm texture. Vest-neck style,
buttoning in front. Two patch pockets.
Coins: Ore”. Brown, Navy, Slate and Lovat (a
greenish mixture).
Men’s. Outsize. Ex. O.S.
45/- 47/6 50/-
“Warrigal” goods are obtainable only from Peapes’.
Please state chest measurements and color required.
PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE.
PEAPES & CO. LTD..
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Visits to the Battlefields of
France and Flanders.
T>EOPLE who contemplate a visit to Europe during
-*• 1920 are advised when miking their arrange-
ments, to fix their plans earlv for a visit to France
and Belgium. A great deal of congestion is
expected by the hotel proprietors during Jrlv and
August, and those who can do so are advised to
make their tours in May, June and September.
The cost, under the guidance of Frame’s Tourist
Agency, 92 Southampton Row, London, England, is
quite moderate. Several different itineraries hare
been planned, embracing visits to Ostend, Zeebrugge
(The Mole), Bruges, Ypres and district, Brussels,
Amiens, Albert, Bapaume, Arras, Douai, Lille,
Armentieres, Paris, etc. Frame’s Agenov is equ’ppe 1
with all the best maps and information, and can
furnish much assistance to tho e wishing to visit
the graves of loved ones who have fallen.
Situations Wanted.
STEADY, sobm* man, 39, married, desires
change. Well up in oils, fats, ere.,
including analysis. Splitting, distillation,
pressing, etc., also erection of any plant used.
At present assistant manager eight years of
large distillery in England. Best references.
Box 2321 G.P.0., Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN PROVINCIAL
ASSURANCE ASSOCIATION LTD.
Head Office, A.P.A. Building,
77 King Street, SYDNEY.
FIVE YEARS’ PROGRESS.
Ordinary New Accident
Business. Revenue.
NOTE. —The 1918 totals cover a period
of fourteen months.
The A.P.A. Combined Benefit Policies, in
add tion to the ordinary Endowment and Life
Benefits, give Wecklv Compensation for Sickness
and Accic’e t, also Hospitil and M dieal Fees.
The Association transacts all classes of per*
sonal Accident Insurance. Live representatives
may secure exceptional contracts on the A.P.A.
staff.
S. P. WOOD, Managing' Director.
SOCIETY
HOPE FOR HIM YET.
TUE BORE: “He’s quite a remarkable doggie.
In fact, just as clever as I am.”
MAID MURIEL: “But why worry, Reggie?
He’s only a pup.”
“Hermish”; It being the practice in the
newspaper reports to tag “returned soldier”
on to a Digger’s name when he is accused
in the courts, what about adding to the
name of a cold-footer, “eligible but didn’t
enlist,” when he is introduced to the Bench
and public? Seems a fair thing.
* * * •
If, when young Wales is with us, the"
police raid a two-up “joint” and are embar-
rassed to discover that they have arrested
royalty, it will be because a very earnest
Digger has redeemed a promise. The Prince
when visiting the Australians in Belgium
came unexpectedly on a two-up school, and
lost ten francs over his- initiation. It was
a very earnest Digger who explained the
mysteries of the game, and he promised
young Teddy that if ever he came our way
he would show him what a “real big joint”
was like. The ex-soldier is now in Sydney
worrying about how he will keep the
promise.
“Duglio”: Shorty was doing “rounds” on
a guard of brand new reinforcements on a
dump at Castre. On approaching the sentry
he w r as challenged with “ ’Alt!” Shorty
’alted and a few seconds later the sentry
again roared “ ’Alt!” Not liking the look
of the .303 pointed at his head Shoi-ty said,
in as polite a manner as possible, “All right,
senti-y, I’ve halted. What next?” Without
taking his eyes from the sights the sentry
answered, “I gotter say ’alt three times and
then I gotter tire.”
* * * *
“P.X ”: There are mirages that the story-
books never mention. Thi’ee years ago a
man with a few thousands went into the
Far West of N. S. Wales and saw, or
thought he saw, a garden. As one -who
knew something about stock it wasn’t merely
the herbage that made his eyes bulge: here,
he said, were the finest edible shrubs in
the world to carry stock through a drought.
He put every farthing he could get hold of
into a sheep-run; and a traveller who pushed
up from Broken Hill to the Queensland
border last month gives an account of what
the “garden” is like now. Station after
station has been abandoned; all the stock
are dead, and at most a caretaker is left in
charge. Sometimes there isn’t enough mois-
ture to sustain even a caretaker; at one
homestead all he found was a dead bullock in
a bathroom —the poor beast had sniffed a
few drops of water thei’e and when that
supply failed had been too weary to carry
the search any further. The rabbits have
gone; even the dingoes have gone. Yet
there ai*e men who have made foi’tunes in
this country—mostly by knowing when to
get out. The man who is married to the
Far West, and decides to stick to it through
fat and lean, goes out, as a rule, humping a
bluey.
* ffr if
A Bathurst woman has discovered in a
curious way one of the disadvantages of
running away with the other man. After 30
years the other man died, leaving the
■woman to work for her living; and a broken
arm impelled her to put in a claim for an
invalid pension. Her husband being a pro-
perty owner and still alive, this claim was
refused. Then the woman applied for main-
tenance, and the long-deserted husband was
ordered to pay it. Naturally he objected,
and his appeal was upheld; yet, though she
has thus been held to have no claim upon
him, apparently she is still ineligible for an
invalid pension. It is possible, of course,
that the decision on the appeal would be
upset on further appeal, for if a man doesn’t
exei*cise his legal right to a divorce the
chances are he must observe his legal respon-
sibilities as a husband.
“Buck Duane”: It was up at Messines,
and Fritz was giving us a lively time.
Thirty yards away from our trench he
had a mine laid, and we were not to hop
over until Fritz let it go. Along-
side me, trying to laugh and then
trying to cry, was a married
Digger. I think everyone in the
battalion had seen the photo of
his wife and kids. When the mine
exploded we went over and got
many prisoners. As I was looking
around to see where I fitted in I
came across our married man. He
had a Hun all to himself and I
stopped to see what he was ro'ng
to do with him. Fritz was crying,
big tears coursing down his
cheeks. He spoke fairly good
English, as was the case of a lot
of Germans. He was talking about
his wife and kids, and on their be-
half pleaded for mercy. When
he had finished his sorrowful tale our
married man brought out his wife’s photo,
showed it to Fritz and burst into tears. I
left them at it, both of them, good and hard.
* # * *
Some of the most highly-paid railway and
Harbor Trust officials in Melbourne, not to
mention a butcher and a Yankee sailor, are
engaged in disputation relating to the owner-
ship of a pig. The animal, a large, white,
dairy-fed porker, was consigned to Mel-
bourne by rail, and, resenting the idea of be-
coming pork, escaped from a truck in the
Spencer-street yards and made a bolt for
freedom. A railway man sped in pursuit, but
the porker put in a record sprint, and seeing
no other way of escape dived into the
-Yarra. The railwayman returned to report
the loss of one sanguinary swine; but
meantime the animal had drifted down
stream and was lassoed in the best wild-and-
woolly-West style by a sailor on an
American schooner. The assistant harbor-
master got wind of this, and decreed that the
pig was flotsam and must be held by the
Harbor Trust , on behalf of its owner'; but
the sailor couldn’t see the force of this
argument, so dashed off and sold his bit of
flotsam to the nearest butcher. The meat
SHIFTING THE HEAVENLY .FURNITURE.
“Does God make the thunder!"
“Yes, dear .”
“But you don't know, mummy, who's pulling it along, do you!”
vendor promptly sent the pig to the abattoirs,
but it had no sooner arrived there than
frenzied messages were received from Harbor
Trust and railway officials announcing that
if the animal were killed legal proceedings
would follow. While various expensive
officials were ai'guing the point the poor
swine was overcome by the fuss and died.
But even this graceful act did not end the dis-
pute, which is still in full blast, The
abattoirs has the corpse, the sailor has the
cash, and the other parties concerned have
a problem on hand which will probably be
the subject of official correspondence for the
next six months.
* * # *
From the Office Chaplain:—
The Goulbura Diocesan Synod, which has lately
caused so much heated controversy by declaring that
Sabbath tennis doesn’t necessarily smell of brim-
stone, has a habit of giving an Australian lead to
the Austi-alian Chiirch. In 1892, in 1902 and ■
again in 1915 it elected as bishop a pi'iest already
working in Australia, despite attempts made to
import one. In 1916 it expressed the opinion that
the time had come when help from English societies
should not be accepted, and it has consistently re-
fused ever since to countenance cadging in England
for Australian needs. In the recent session it expressed
the opinion that there is nothing inconsistent with
Christian principle in social and physical recreation
on Sunday. But it was just as emphatic in saying
that such recreation ought always to be sub-
ordinated to the primary claims of divine worship
and to the necessity of preserving the character of
Sunday as a day of i-est for the community; and
that is the end of it which the wrathful righteous
have, after the manner of their kind, conveniently
overlooked.
* » ■* #
“Wessel”: Chinamen may be conservative
in some ways, but they bring their religion,
at least, up to date; and that’s a thing most
people are pi’etty hide-bound about. For
instance, the figures in the big josshouse at
Darwin have been brought into the fashion
by the removal of the pigtails which they
sported before China took to going without
tails. But each joss still lias a cup of very
weak tea in front of him, in keeping with
the old practice.
# * * *
“Solomon”: Our company was billeted in
a French village when the joyful news of the
signing of the Armistice went round. The
boys discovei’ed a cask of beer and did some
celebrating. Thus it was that, in the small
hours of the morning, Sergeant — : —, com-
monly known as Sporty, Wandered up the
street in seai’ch of his billet. Some kind
fi-iend directed him to the place, and he
managed to open the door and walk in. All
was still. Taking off his boots, he tiptoed
up the stairs, opened another door, then gave
a sigh of relief and snuggled into bed—
beside the 0.C.! That gentleman awoke
suddenly and his eyes nearly dropped out
when he recognised the intruder. “What the
are you doing here?” he roared.
Even then poor old Sporty didn’t
realise that he had come into the
wrong shop. He patted the “old
man” gently on the shoulder. “Hush,
dear, hush!” he said soothingly, and the
orderly who had appeared suddenly from
nowhere gasped in horror, and vanished.
Next day the mob had something to write
home about.
In a recent Melbourne case of little im-
portance two names mentioned were those of
Abraham Snidei’s, now Alfred Selby, and
Joseph Sniders, now Jos. Selby. “Sniders”
is px-ofoundly Dutch, but in troubled times
it might be mistaken for German and
be a good name to get rid of. But a
curious point and one that John Storey’s
mental experts might inquire into when they
come to inspect Georgeson at Government
expense, is why the man who changes his
name for good or bad reasons never, except
by a great mental effort, gets away from the
old initials. Even King George, when he
abjured the family name of Wettin, called
himself Windsor, whereas it would have
been more in keeping to have called himself
Stuart or Tudor. Smith at a push generally
A POSSIBILITY.
“I'll surprise everybody one of these, days by
getting married."
“Be careful —you might surprise them by
staying married.”
calls himself South, and Brown disguises
himself as Briggs. A man can no more get
away from his initials than from his past,
nor can a woman, wherefore Florence in her
decadence becomes Flossie.
(Continued on page 18.)
THE NEW DRESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When mother makes a dress
There’s somethin’ doin’ in the place,
And hooks and eyes, and things like that,
And linin’ stuff, and bits of lace
Are in the stew. The butter-pat
Has quaintly grown a bran’-new hat.
A swamp of litter’s on the floor,
And baby’s holdin’ rather more
Of drygoods than a country store.
There’s certainly a mess
When mother makes a dress.
When mother’s got her dress,
A nice new dress of black or brown,
We’ve all suggestions where to go;
There’s talk of runnin’ up to town,
And trips in to the picture-show.
“You mustn’t hide the frock, you know!”
And dad is swellin’ round the earth;
One half his look is gentle mirth,
The other half is conscious worth.
We all feel proud, I guess,
When mother’s got her dress.
When mother airs her dress
We gather round the blind to "know
If Mrs. Mills is takin’ stock,
And mother walks out just as though
She'd on her old, grey, cotton frock..
She hints that there are more in stock.
■ But dad’s the one who eyes the fit.
And smirks, and preens himself a bit —
You’d think that he was weavin’ it.
His pride he can’t repress
When mother airs her dress.
AVhen home they bring the dress
It’s “Mind that baby!” “See the dirt!”
“Be careful of the buttered crumb!”
“Bill, keep your fingers off the skirt!”
“Here, Amiie, dust a chair for mum- —
Bless me, the place is like a slum!”
It’s wrapped in paper all the Spring,
And father swaggers like a king.
That he’s done quite a splendid thing
Is what he would impress
When mother gets a dress.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


mm
m
m
SSSSS-X
m
•v.v,
1
V* *.V
M
mm.
m-
m
mm
S&i
M
v!v
m
CvX
m
i;!;
1
•J.W
Si:
ii
M
:S
■
m
.
/a
i
BEFORE the GRADUOLA, the in-
genious patented tone controlling de-
vice in the AEOLIAN VOGALION
was invented, it was hitherto unknown
how to mechanically imitate th j voice
perfectly.
The GRADUOLA achieves the seem-
ingly impossible. Like a singer’s throat,
it perfectly controls tone
Similar to the vocal chords the GRADUOLA
is elastic in nature and ®f great flexibility* Like
the throat it expands and contracts ana can di-
minish or increase a tone slowly or rapidly and
by imperceptible degrees. The
AEOLIAN
VOCALION
is the only phonograph that can accomplish this.
Even if the VOGALIGN did not possess
other outstanding features, this one overwhelming
attribute alone, namely, the GRADUOLA, would
be sufficient to make your choice a VOGALION.
0
u
ue
♦/
(omomiV
Wf:
0'
POST THIS COUPON NOW.
Please send me the AEOLIAN VOCALION
Catalog.
Name.
...Address.
384 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.


Become a
Qualified Accountant
Our splendid course of lessons and expert coaching service will make
you a competent accountant rapidly yet thoroughly, and at small
expense.
Qualification is essential to success in the business world. No good
position can be yours if you remain unqualified.
Write or call for “GUIDE TO ACCOUNTANCY.”
Explains clearly “how to qualify” and how 5000 have already
qualified under our methods.
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON
The Accountancy Specialists,
MELBOURNE:
Aberdeen House,
528 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
Eon den BaiA Chambers,
Moore Street.
AUCKLAND:
Union Buildings
Caxton Street.
“FIRST IN 1897—FOREMOST EVER SINCE.”
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
l)e Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
“H. 8.”: Talking about the Prince of
Wales, AA’ho is being used as the suffering
bird to try to save the English monarchy
system. He Avas at a rest-camp in France
one raw morning, and coming on a group of
soldiers playing two-up, bIeAV into the
game. He was losing steadily, Avhen a big
Queenslander pushed into the school, and
after watghing the play for a while said in
a tone of concern ; “Say, Prince, Avhat’ll they
say to yer if yer go ’ome broke?”
* * *
“Simla” : “Karim Khan” asks(B. 12/2/’2O)
Avhetlier anybody knows a longer route-
march than his party of the Dunsterforce
did in Persia—6o7 miles over three moun-
tain ranges, 46 days’ actual travelling.
Well, there’s the famous march of
Lumsden’s Guides from Mardan to Delhi
during the Indian Mutiny in 1857. Colonel
DODGING THE WHITE MAN’S
BURDEN.
“Now, I wonder why George isn’t here to
meet me!”
Younghusband in “The Story of the Guides”
says they marched',,fully equipped, horse and
foot, 580 miles in 26 days 14 hours, or,
deducting detentions, 21 days 5 hours’
actual travelling. This Avorks out at an
average of over 27 miles a day, a highly
creditable feat for mounted troops, and still
more so for the infantry portion of the
corps. The job was done, too, at the hottest
season of the year through the hottest
region on earth.
SIMPLY HAD TO STAY.
“How did the new cook turn out?”
“She only stayed overnight.”
“Good heavens, what happened?”
“She couldn’t get a train till the morning.”
General Gough, the Society pro-Bolshevik,
has been Avarniug London about the “draAving-
l'oom propaganda work” Avhich is being car-
ried on in the interests of the old Russian
regime. Its chief centre is 21 Belgrave-
square, one of the famous houses of West
Fnd London, and at present occupied by
Prince Youssopoff, This is the socially
popular product of Eton and Oxford Avho got
rid of Rasputin. Or rather helped to do so:
...the long-haired mystic had to be shot several
times, as Avell as poisoned, before he suc-
cumbed, and a small army of Petrograd
nobles assisted in the good work. General
Gough’s views about the Bolsheviks Avere no!,
by the Avay, stated for the first time a week
ago. He upheld the cause and aims of
the revolutionaries in the Oxford Magazine
S' me months bm k.
* * * »
“Ida D.” : The English people called ours
“the gentleman army” and got laughed at.
Mulga Bill a gentleman! But the coach-
driver kneAV the Bush better. “You town
chaps Avon’t go to a ball Avithout your black
soot and your stand-up collar. Many a
time me and me mate’s gone with one coat
between us. He’d stay outside Avhile I had
me darnce, and then I’d stay out while he
had his go. The tarts never let on they
hnew — that’s good breedin’.” And so it is.
“Silas Snell”: My earlier impression that
to be a gay Lothario and a real devil among
the women one must be of the well-to-do
classes is not borne out by our experience of
Bill. Our house had to be re-papered, and
Bill Avas put on the job by the contractors.
It is just as Avell they did not send half a
dozen like him. In the course of the first
afternoon three girls called on Bill at various
hours and entertained him with conversation
and confectionery. He Avas curly-headed,
Avith blue eyes and a fund of airy badinage.
On the second day one girl came in the
morning (she brought chocolates) and two
in the afternoon. Unfortunately the large,
fair, aggressive one came while the other,
Avho was small, dark and chic, Avas still in
possession, and she spoilt some of the neAv
Avail-papering. That evening I appealed to
Bill. Bill promised there would be no more
of it, but three girls came to see him during
the day, and one quarrelled Avith him because
of certain intimations that had reached her.
“It won’t happen again, J promise you,” said
Bill ; and next morning a lady called, asked
for Bill, broke our dining-room window with
the step-ladder, and then made a noise in
the street that Ave can’t hope to live down
in six years. “It’s fair dinkum this time,
mister”—protested Bill, “that one was me
missus!” But Ave had a new paperhanger
substituted. I picked him myself. He had
neither curly hair nor blue eyes, but he had
a squint that put the clock Avrong.
“Mr. Ocky”: In the war the meek, like-
able man was all very Avell in his way, but
an officer with a natural gift for cursing
could generally run rings round him, and
in addition carry whole crowds of admiring
Diggers wherever he chose. The efficacy of
a rounded, rhythmical string of sAvear-words
on occasions was wonderful.
Tlie best exponent of the
art I met was an A.I.F.
staff-major whose ground
and lofty swearing kept us
in the best of humor when
things Avere at their worst.
It was a driving force and
an entertainment combined.
His language untangled
traffic, found water-tins,
tilled up empty ammunition
dumps; by judicious oaths
he got men bathed and
properly clad; and his
audacious yet singularly
wise swearing gained other-
wise impossible concessions
from superiors. lie was no
respecter of persons. I re-
member hearing him on the
telephone when the crowd
was in rest A senior padre,
had rung up to say that the
<1 ivision could have the use
of a cinema plant after it
had gone the rounds of the
other divisions. My idol
launched all his wonderful
vocabulary into that tele-
phone, telling the padre that
if the cinema did not arrive
on the following day he
could and ; also
—. The astounded padre
must have protested, for Ave
heard the Major finish him
off with: “Well you can tell
the General to .”
Then he banged the instrument on the hook.
Next day the cinema arrived. The padre
must have felt that the situation was very
grave fill a ste “'-major with such emphasis.
* * * *
“Bromide” : Did any soldier go closer to
it than this? A Digger in France, during
a lull in the strafe, took a glimpse over the
parapet and was greeted by a burst of
machine-gun fire. One bullet entered his
chest near the left shoulder and came to
rest against his heart. There it remains
and can be seen on the X-Ray screen throb-
bing with every beat. Strange to say it
caused the Digger little inconvenience, and
he was able to walk out of the line unaided.
*** v *
“Hamer”: A trolly track led from the
light railway at Clark’s Dump, below Mes-
sines, to our possie in the ravine, along
which rations and stores
used to come to us. Our
0.0. was not exactly
loved, but his indifference
to fire was admired: he
never worried about
cover, and never flinched
under the heaviest shell-
ing, but carried on with
a scorn for the vicious
flying pieces that hissed
past him. At the start
of the incline the boys
had given the trolly a
shove and let her go full
speed; and in the sound
of its approach you could
plainly hear the arrival
of a big shell. Naturally
the C. 0., standing in the
centre of the track in-
specting things in the
other direction, scorned
to take notice, even
though the Diggers yelled
at him, “Look out, you
silly blanker!” The fatigue party waiting
to unload the truck at the entrance to the
ravine were amazed to find their C.O.
delivered to them on the top of the rations
and rum jars. Thereafter he was as
indifferent as ever to shells, but he avoided
trolly-ways.
*#• * *
“Oxide”: The urgent necessity of saving
space in funeral notices.and at the same time
being polite to all the relatives and friends
of the deceased leads some undertakers into
unwarranted aspersions on the character of
the departed and grave reflections on those
left behind. Ordinarily, the difficulty is got
over by saying that “the Friends and Rela-
tives of the late John Blank are informed.”
etc. Broken Hill undertakers are apparently
compelled by local custom to designate all
relatives and friends by name, and to invite
all the friends of the friends and relatives to
be present at the mournful proceedings. The
general mix-up comes out in the local press
in this form: “The friends of Mrs. James
Blank, Mr. and Mrs. George Blank, Miss
Blank, Mr. John Jones, Mrs. T. Robinson,
Mr. and Mrs. William Smith, Mr. and Mrs.
J. Johnson are respectfully informed that
the remains of their late husband, father,
brother, brother-in-law, son-in-law, uncle and
friend will leave his late residence,” etc.
Some day the ghost of Mr. Blank will
respectfully sue the undertaker for defama-
tion of character.
“Jake B.”: I’m with “Rio” (B. 12/2/’2O)
in advocating the reduction to the ranks
of officers convicted of military offences in
preference to sacking them altogether. The
demerits of the existing system were illus-
trated in the case of a number of people
holding C.M.F. commissions who were called
upon during the war to show cause why
they should not enlist. Those who failed to
produce sufficient evidence to justify their
remaining at home were merely dismissed
from the service, thus escaping both the
war and the usual compulsory parades. This
was probably what they had prayed for. I
know of one who held the rank of captain.
He offered to enlist if he was allowed to
retain his rank; and though his perfectly
splendid offer was turned down he stiil
adorns the C.M.F. Yet the Defence Depart-
ment cannot understand why returned
officers are not rushing for C.M.F. commis-
sions.
* * * *
“Broker”: A Sydney chop-house that got
itself into trouble over sly grog-selling fell
into the big fist of the law in a simple way.
Though it held no license its after-hour trade
was enormous, and many wine and spirit
firms supplied its needs on the usual terms.
One of them, getting a first order, made
inquiries through a trade-protection agency,
with the result that the city was ransacked
by one of the agency's “reporters” seeking
information about financial standing, etc.;
and that led to the trouble. My first visit
to the place happened a few months ago.
Knowing not that liquor was to be had
for the asking, I called for some water. The
request was so extraordinary that I got
what _I asked for in a finger-bowl. The
establishment didn’t know water as a drink.
* * *
“John Drayman” finds bush in the suburbs:
Most of the building-timber of early Hobart Town
and much of that used in the construction of Mel-
bourne in the days of the “diggings” was cut by pit-
sawyers on the slopes of Mt. Wellington, within one
hour’s walk of Sullivan’s Cove. Barring the remains
of old sawpits, this tract of the forest primeval is
just about as primeval as when Truganini’s grand-
parents pursued ’possums in the suburbs of Hobart,
for that part of the mountain-side which is not
reserved as the city’s water-catchment area has been
locked up for 50 years by the Cascade Brewery Co.
Partly because of its native dampness (it is a net-
work of deep ferntree gullies, with musk and moss-
grown sassafras and huge man-ferns blanketing the
numerous tinkling waterfalls and sheltering the scrub-
leeches in perpetual shadow), and partly because of
the vigilance of a couple of forest rangers, bush fires
have only once (in 1897) seriously threatened the
bosky area, with the result that the eucalyptus forest
HE SOUNDED INTERESTING.
“That’s my brother behind us. He is the
very opposite to me. Have you, met
him?"
“No, but I’d love to!”
has almost re-created itself. So to-day, on Strick-
land-avenue, the tourist drive from Hobart to Fern-
tree Bower, there is a full-rigged bush sawmill tear-
ing millions of feet of scantling and planks and
battens and flooring and weatherboards out of the
dense forest of tall, straight stringybarks and gums.
The mill-hands, toiling; in “the heart of the forest,”
can easily hear the G.P.O. clock strike, and may
attend a city picture-show every night. It is prob-
ably less than three miles, air line, from the promen-
ade deck of the finest harbor pier in the southern
hemisphere to the spot where the sawmill is cough-
ing violent pioneering remarks at the heels of the
fleeing wood-nymphs.
’UMPIN’ RATIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pusliin’ lip tlie lurid ’and-truck on its crazy set o’ rails
That get knocked to sudden glory every day—
Oh, there’s ’oil and all to answer if the ration party
fails,
So you ’um a little tune to keep you gay.
l-’ritzy’s shells come screamin’ over; one near ’its
the flamin’ truck,
And it smothers you with mud and meltin’ snow,
But you reach the freezin’ railhead,, drag the rations
from the muck,
And the Yerey lights point out the way to go.
’Umpin up the crimson rations on a greasy duck-
walk track
Filled with ’oles that send you sprawlin’ in the
mud,
With sandbags ’ung all round you or a food-box on
your back, {
And the bullets landin’ near you with a thud.
Past the scuppered t German pillbox, and the stinks
of Dead ’(Jn Farm ;
Past the crater! where the Boclie sat on a mine;
By the tombstones in the bonevard, where your cobber
grabs your arm,
To the mob of watchin! Diggers in the line.
’Off they scramble for the “mungey,” for the steamin’
tea an’ stew! .
’Off they lug the food-container orf your frame!
But their ’parts is in the billets with the tabbies that
they knew
When you ’ump the empties back the way you
came.
Hoofin’ it for ’Omc and Mother by the gapin’ minnie
’ole,
Where the rattle of ’is light guns makes you duck ;
And you say a prayer to -Allah for the safety of your
soul,
As your freezin’ feet go trudgin’ through the muck.
Near a barkin’ eighteen-pounder, sweatin’ gunners in
’er pit, "
And ’er ugly mouth fair coughin’ up the shell ;
Past a string of bloody stretchers with some coves
that’s badly ’it,
Setting out for dear old Blighty for a spcil.
“Fresh as paint, but rather sleepy,” says the skipper.
You retire
To your dugout with its floor of slimy ooze :
And you pour the rum inside you till your innards
seem afire, , ~.
Wrap the blankets round your ’ead —and do a
snooze.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.


DEWARS
WHISKY -
Really good Whisky should
possess the virtues of
MATURITY & DESIRABILITY
Maturity. —Age ever did command respect. In
Dewar's to-day is to be found all the experience
of many generations in the arts of blending and
distillation, which has for its end the production
of a whisky —always ripely matured —worthy
of its universal designation as the Supreme
Spirit.
Desirability. —Charm and desirability always
go hand in hand, for without charm nothing
is desirable. Dewar's is a fountain of fascin-
ation —its triumphant quality persistently
pleases but never palls. The matured merits
of its magnificent mellowness may be enjoyed
year in and year out with never a trace of
tiredness of taste.
THE WHISKY OF MERIT.


m
(grolsitsi-icE
■OSgTvymg
The
finest
TOBACCO
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed.
“EDGEWORTH”
TP*
r
deaf?
You .can HEAR,
and we prove it
by posting you an
easy to wear
Acousticon
No deposit, obligation or expense. Over
330,001) delighted users, including the Prime
Minister, Mr. Hughes, who has been using
the “Acousticon” for more than five years!
Store!* 102 Daklng House. SYDNEY
Service oiderfleet, Collins St, MELB.
N.Z.: John Procter, 200 High St., ChrUtc’h.
W.A.: 11. Little & Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
Lamsoiv
A Signal Sneeess
tBS
King George IV
WKISm¥
theTOP-NOTCH’Scotch
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALLA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Kid-O.”: Last week I was surfing at
Tweed Heads (N.S.W.) when a yellow-bellied sea-
snake, fully 3ft. long, brushed past my thigh. My
heart missed a couple of beats. This is the com-
monest Australian sea-snake, having a wide range
of the Pacific and Indian oceans, and is very poison-
ous. It is blackish-brown on the back and yellow
on the sides and belly. Its keeled tail does the
dual work of rudder and propeller, and is spotted.
Its nostrils are on the top of its snout, so that it
can float about without showing its head or body,
and its lungs would make a champion diver green
with envy. If any surfer happens to get bitten by
one, let the victim make an incision round the
bite with a penknife or a piece of glass and allow
the blood to run freely, previously applying a
tourniquet above the wound to stop the flow of
venom to the heart, which would be fatal. Squeeze
or suck the cuts, and finally apply a couple of
grains of permanganate of potash. The skin of the
largest yellow-belly on record (45Ain.) is to be
seen in the Brisbane Museum.
* * *
“Bondi” : It was at a buckjumping show
Newcastle way. The usual long-eared quadruped
was led into the ring, and the “sports” invited to
display their riding ability. No one moved for
awhile; then a Digger shambled forwards, jumped
on the mule’s back and was promptly thrown yards
away. His legs gave a dull thud as they hit the
ground. Nothing daunted, the Digger staggered to
his feet and made towards the animal. His pals,
instead of applauding his gameness, rushed the
ring and prevented his remounting. It turned out
that the Digger was a “double amp.” and owned
two artificial legs.
* ♦ * »
“Jacey”: I was recently sitting round
a camp-fire with several others when a big
green frog jumped right into the middle of it
and was cremated. About two minutes later another
frog followed, and later a third. We intervened
and prevented about a dozen others from com-
mitting suicide. What’s the explanation ?
“Budgerygar”: I enter the soldier bird as
the biggest nark in the bush. There must be some
kind of an understanding between him and the
’roo. I’ve stalked a ’roo for a few hundred yards
and then, just as I’ve got into a possie and pre-
pared to shoot, a soldier-bird has given the show
away by a shrill whistle; and the ’roo does a
440 in Postle style. Only thing left then is to
curse the bird, and go in search of other ’roos.
* * * *
“Woodlark”: A while ago the co. which
bought out the interest of Joe Cooper, the old-time
buffalo-hunter, in Melville Island (N.T.), and now
holds a lease of the whole 2200 square miles, was
advised from London that some enterprising bird
was trying to float a few cos. to develop and exploit
Melville Island. They got after the citizen, who
was spinning some good De Rougemont stories about
the new treasure-store, and they cornered him.
He admitted frankly that all the information he
had about Melville was many years old, and came
from some superannuated official, but he reckoned
it was good enough bait for the British public in
its present mood. He apologised handsomely when
told he was butting in on a domain already pre-
empted, and thanked God there were Kerguelen Land
and a few other trifles left for another shot.
* * * *
“D.F.”: I suppose that some day sheep-
bells will be found only in museums. When I
knocked about in the rough country in the
eastern part of the Speck years ago every
sheep-farmer had a stock of bells and ran
them on the bell-wethers, sheep picked for
strength, hardiness and activity. I believe
there was a theory that the tells made it
easier to work sheep in bad country, the
bell-sheep bringing the stragglers together.
I have, anyway, seen bells cut out of a
mob and left behind for this purpose.
Still, they use, or did use, bells in Eng-
land, where this reason would not apply.
Apart from any utility, the music of the
sheep-bells in hilly country is about the
sweetest I have ever heard. But now I
don’t think there is a bell-sheep left on
the place where I was brought up, though
there used to be always half a dozen or
more. The bells have worn out or been
lost, and no new ones have been bought.
By the way, we always used to shear bare-
footed and still do, but I fancy that was
unusual even in those primitive regions.
The idea was that it gave a better foot-
hold and less chance of slipping on the greasy floor.
It was a comfortable custom.
“Obadiah Ren”: A well-known S. Aus.
railway official, when superintendent of the Northern
division at Peterborough, stabled an old-man kan-
garoo that he had reared from babyhood. The
animal was considered quite harmless, and got on
very well with everybody—even the dogs. One day,
however, he heard the call of the wild and dis-
appeared. Nothing was heard Of him for some
months, until one morning he was found in the
yard. He had come back. But he was a changed
’roo, surly and unmanageable, and one sunny Sab-
bath he gave vent to his feelings by attacking
his owner. The latter was thrown to the ground
and would have been killed but for a plucky kan-
garoo-dog which went for the grey brute and
kept him busy until help arrived.
“The Burden”: Is it only coincidence that
the Papuans of the Mailu district know the here-
after by the old familiar title of Beulah, or Beula?
When a man dies it is necessary to at once make a
great clamor, which has the effect of searing the
spirit out of the husk. The freed soul then journeys
to a high head of land jutting out into the sea,
where he finds a canoe and provisions waiting for
him. There is also a ladder. He paddles to the
horizon’s rim, and with the aid of the ladder climbs
down the edge of the world into Beula. Inquiries
show that the belief is older than the oldest mis-
sionary who ever traded in copra.
THE TIME WAS NEVER RIPE.
VISITING PARSON ( sheltering in gunyah from shower of rain) : “Why don't you put
a sheet of bark over that hole, Jacky!”
JAUKY : “Too plurry wet.”
PARSON : “I don't mean now —I mean on a fine day.”
JACKY : “No plurry drop come in alonga fine day.”
“Pres” : In April, 1913, a native of Night
Island, known as Treacle, was engaged “skin-diving”
for beche-de-mer near a reef off York Island (Torres
Strait). While coming to the surface from nine
fathoms with a crayfish in his hand, Treacle was
attacked by a big shark, which got the boy’s head
in its mouth. I saw the boy later in the Thursday
Island Hospital, where he had a gaping tear in the
throat and several teeth-marks at the base of the
skull and beneath the ears. How he got his head
free the shark only knows: the nigger doesn’t.
“Jim Carew” : Will someone tell me why
the snake and the gohanna fight? I have stumbled
across many scraps in progress, but have never wit-
nessed the preliminaries or the opening round. Most
end in a draw, with neither of the combatants
injured, but in all fights-to-a-finish I have seen the
go. has been the victor. In every case he has man-
aged to grip the snake’s throat and rip it. When
the snake is dead the go. sets about eating him.
He commences at the tail and gradually gets the
whole body down his throat. When he reaches the
head there is a wriggle or two and the snake’s head
drops on the ground, bitten off. I suppose the
gohanna knows that that part is “bad medicine.”
“Gelt”: “Mannamead” talks about prices
for butterflies (B. 15/1/’2O). The best I know of
was £3BO paid to a priest in the Buin district
of Bougainville a few years before the war. It
was in this same district that Paul Kibler hung his
mosquito-net and yarded some good specimens for
a German exposition. But I dare say that some of
Rothschild’s specimens, caught by A. S. Meek, cost
more, because on at least two occasions special
expeditions were made to get them.
The beginning of an “old family”
At Forest Creek, as on other Vic. diggings, there
was a brisk trade in jewellery to be done, the
hefty clay-thumper taking great pride in a diamond
ring like a chandelier or a watch-chain like a bull’s
harness gone gay, and, of course, there were enter-
prising Hebrews out to meet the need. They took
payment in dust, and often bought gold on the
side. One of the fraternity, a hefty London Jew
named Morris, relying on his bulk, took greater
risks than were consistent with good health, and
one day got himself knocked about the head with
a pick handle, and was thoroughly “gutted,” in
the expressive idiom of the. day. Morris succeeded
in raising the alarm before the depredator was well
out of sight, and a hue and cry followed. The
thief, a man named Roach, made up the gully, was
headed off, and shot across the flat for the heav'y
timber; but the chase was too hot and he ducked
behind the establishment of Mary Budd, a Forest
Creek notoriety who ran a shanty, and incidentally
baked bread for sale. She had two tents and a
paling hut, and for a time Roach was lost to sight
by the pursuers. It was thought he had taken
cover with Mary, and pursuers went warily, know-
ing he was armed; but a mounted policeman spotted
him stealing into the bush and got him with a
bullet. The bullet severed his spinal cord and he
was dying when they picked him up. Morris s
chamois bag was gone. The bag, Morris declared,
contained £BOO worth of diamonds and some gold,
but the minutest search made along the course
of Roach’s flight failed to reveal the missing wea"'..
That night a miner (call him Nemo) we.it
to Mary Budd’s tent to buy bread. He found
another miner haggling over the last large loai.
declaring that it was as heavy as lead, and would be
unfit to eat. He wanted his money back. Nemo
was willing to take the loaf, and carried it off
to his tent. When Nemo broke it a chamois bag
fell out. Roach had evidently grabbed the loaf
from the camp-oven in which it was baking, torn
it apart, thrust the chamois bag into a cavity,
joined the half-baked dough again, restored it to
the oven and continued his flight intending to
buy it later should all go well with him. Morris
continued his search for the chamois bag for over
a fortnight, and it is doubtful whether he ever
knew whjr he couldn’t find it.
GENEROSITY.
GUEST : “Look here, waiter, I dropped six-
pence. If you find it you might return
it to me; hut if you don’t you may keep
it.”
“Carpentario” : Beri-beri is not uncommon
in certain places on the Gulf side of the Northern
Territory. A policeman long stationed in those
parts, where a policeman does a hit of doctoring
as well as nearly every other thing, reckoned
lie got good results by treating with a mixture
very much like the brimstone, sulphur and treacle
that children once used to get.
(Continued 011 page 22.)
WHEN WE RODE OUT TO WALCHA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When we hiked out to Walcha along the winding
road
The green of grass sang sweet and low, and where
the river flowed
The stock stood in the shallows and flicked away
the flies,
While far from harm the happy birds had each his
paradise.
Gold sun in deep-blue Heaven with joy paternal
glowed
W hen we hiked out to Walcha along the winding'
road.
The winding road to Walcha sets out so smooth and
straight,
And so we flew along it for fear of being late;
But forty-five is skittish and sixty-five's a sin
\\ hen one has all the gladsome world to be con-
tented in ;
And yet one can’t help speeding at an unlovely
rate,
The wile ing road to Walcha sets out so smooth and
straight.
And then the road to Walcha laughs into squirms
and twists,
Gets bumpy for the backbone and trying for the
wrists ;
So then we go demure and slow at thirty miles an
hour,
With time to see the sky aflame and all the earth
a flower.
Oho I the speed temptation’s not such as one resists,
And then the road to Walcha laughs into squirms
and twists.
Along the road to Walcha, a-purrin’ through the
scrub,
We reach in forty minutes the only little pub;
The only pub for fifty miles —hey, bullies, think
o’ that—
But beef is good and beer is good ; we tarry at
Long Flat.
Yet soon we’re off and dropping miles like spans
behind our hub,
Along the road to Walcha, a-purrin’ through the
scrub.
THE HONEYMOON.
“You wait till we get into this cloud!”
The stock are fat on Yarras, the river chuckles by;
The strong young bulls find life worth while and
know the reason why.
The little calves along the way go frisking as we
pass,
While ruminative cows look up from munching of
the grass.
Oh, you who stay in cities, in cities harsh and dry,
The stock are fat on Yarras, the river chuckles by!
When we hiked out to Walcha along the winding road,
We cared no fig for what we’d sinned, no damn for
what we owed.
The hills of God leaned over us, the breezes swept
away
The grime and the corrosion of the ordinary day.
Long mile on mile for company, the crystal river
flowed
When we hiked out to Walcha along the winding
road.
N.s.w.
FRANK MORTON.


“BOOKSTALL” NOVELS
At 1/- each (or 1/14 posted)
tire the best value offering for readers of fiction.
Practically every Australian novelist of note is represented, ihe Series,
comprising over 100 volumes, of which over 2,000,000 copies have already
actually been sold, caters for every taste.
HAVE YOU READ?
“THE SKIPPER OF THE ‘ROARING MEG’ ” - by Jack McLaren
“WHITE SAVAGE SIMON” by Beatrice Grimshaw
“THE DOINGS OF DAVE” by Con Drew
“YELLOW SILVER” by Edward Meryon
“THREE YEARS WITH THUNDERBOLT” - by Ambrose Pratt
“DOUBLE-BED DIALOGUES” - - - by Henry James James
“BASE BRANDS” by H. M. Somer
“A BACHELOR’S WIFE” by M. Forrest
“BILLY PAGAN, MINING ENGINEER” -by Randolph Bedford
“THE RECIPE FOR RUBBER” by Ralph Stock
“THE WHITE CHAMPION” - - ----- by Don Delaney
“THE CALLING VOICE” by E. F. Christie
EDWARD DYSON’S Humorous Novels.
STEELE RUDD’S Selection Stories.
ARTHUR WRIGHT’S Great Sporting Novels.
THOS. E. SPENCER’S Humorous Books.
ALL BOOKSTALLS AND BOOKSELLERS
NEW COMPLETE CATALOGUE OF OVER 100 AUSTRALIAN
SHILLING NOVELS SENT FREE ON REQUEST.
“IRONBARK SPLINTERS,”
By G. Herbert Gibson (“Ironbark” ).
A Splendid volume of bush and other poems— including the widely-
known “My Mate Bill.”
“One of the most attractive shilling’s-worth on the market.”— The Bulletin.
PRICE 1/-
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. Ltd.
476 George Street, SYDNEY.
THE LEVIATHAN Ready-to-wear
Riding Breeches and Trousers
Tailored from .Specially-Selected Materials.
BIDING BREECHES.—In
hard-wearing Garbinette,
in olive or khaki shades;
self strapped, laced at
knees, expertly cut;
splendid service assured;
ready-to-wear. Sizes 3
to 0 15/6
BIDING BREECHES. —
mounted Service Style,
Tailored in Khaki Mili-
tary Twist. Sizes 3 to
7 30/-
JUDHPOBE BIDING
TROUSERS. —In hard-
wearing serviceable khaki
Drill; a useful style, com-
bining the design of rid-
ing trousers and riding-
breeches, thus dispensing
with the use of leggings;
well tailored, with cross
pockets and belt loops;
ready-to-wear. Sizes 3
to 7 21/-
In Garbicord 15/6
WORKING TROUSERS.—
In splendid wear-resist-
ing Khaki Drills. Suit-
able for riding and
general rough work; cut
with ample seats for
saddle use; well-made
and finished, ready-to-
wear. , _
All sizes 12 /6
When ordering, please give
these measurements — Height,
Waist (over Trousers), and
Inside Leg.
TAILORED-
TO-ORDER.
Leviathan Tailored-to-order Riding
Breeches and Trousers are
Unequalled for Service.
m
m.
RIDING
BREECHES,
As illustration,
per pair.
JUDHPORE
RIDING
TROUSERS
(No Legging
required),
As illustration,
per pair.
RTDING
TROUSERS,
per pair.
In Khaki Drill .
In Khaki Drill Cord
(Self Strappings. 5/- extra;
In Military Whipcord
In Whipcord
(Self Strappings, .7/6 extra;
*■- 30/- 30/-
..... 35/- 35/-
Large Buckskin Strappings. 10/O
42/6 42/6
55- 55/-
Large Buckskin Strappings, 15/6
25/-
25/-
extra)
32/6
45/-
extra.)
f
WRITE FOR PATTERNS, Self-measure-
ment Chart and Tape.
We Pay Carriage
Order by Post.
T«*
EVIATHAN
Pty.
Ltd.
Corner Swanston and Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
PLEASE NOTE—WE HAVE NO BRANCHES.
Hi
MNHI
mw A;
Hi H|
St ’■' ‘
■I
Cfe
: :
a
m
m
~ . ~.BtoU( /} Q JOa
Listed on LLOYD S REGISTER, London,
as Manufacturers of
>Steel
Castings
SPARES
for
CRUSHING, ORE REDUCTION
and
GENERAL MINING AND
INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY.
SOFT, MEDIUM AND HARD CARBON
CAST STEEL. MANGANESE AND
CHROME CAST STEELS.
CARBON CAST STEEL. —Battery
Liners, Cams, Heads and Tappets,
Tube Mill Ends, Gearing, Truck
Wheels, and Castings for General
Industrial Machinery.
CHROME CAST STEEL.— “HEAT-
TREATED.” —For Battery Shoes and
Dies, and also Roll Shells and Parts,
which have to be machined but which
are required to give a maximum
amount of wear.
MANGANESE CAST STEEL.—For
Rockcrusher Jaws, Concaves, Slag
Elevator Chains, Truck Wheels, Coal
Crushing Machinery, etc.
Send your INQUIRIES with SKETCHES and DETAILS to the MANUFACTURERS.
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES: ARTHUR LEPLASTRJER AND CO., CIRCULAR QUAY EAST, SYDNEY.
AGENTS IN QUEENSLAND: THE AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., MARY STREET, RRISBANE.


Sterling' facfls
concerning
x>
o
ft
$
«?
c
6
TRADK MARK.
METAL CEILINGS
On Economic and Artistic Points WUNDERLICH STAMPED STEEL is now employed
for every class of Interior Decoration
BECAUSE of its DURABILITY, ADAPTABILITY, SIMPLICITY in FIXING, Safety
from FIRE and non-harborage of DIRT or MICROBES.
SHOWROOMS:—Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Hobart, Launceston.
CATALOGUES POST FREE ON REQUEST FROM MANUFACTURERS,
WUNDERLICH LIMITED
The Ceilinq People,
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: POSTAL ADDRESS:
Baptist Street. Redfern, N.S.W. Box 474 G.P.0., Sydney.
“L. N. Tommy”: Some authorities con-
tend that S. Aus. abos. were not given to cannibal-
ism, but W. J. R. Hutchison, of Magill, says that
his father saw an old'gin eating portion of her two-
year-old child that had died. The body had been
cooked in native fashion, and the old gin wept and
sang a song of lamentation as she made the meal.
The bones were afterwards deposited in a grass bag,
which .was carried for some time before being buried.
The gin belonged to the Guichen Bay tribe, and the
incident took place about 1848, at Berooka. Usually
the older blacks deny emphatically that they were
man-eaters, but old Coorong natives have confessed
that “wild blackfellow him very good—white fellow
too salt.”
GIVE ’EM TIME, FATHER.
GRANDPA : “Well, I don’t see no one buried
there as old as Oi, mother.”
GRANDMA : “But, my dear, it’s quite a new
cemetery!”
“Friday Island”: Romeo of the Torres
.Strait is a bold lover. The wife of a missionary,
perturbed at the succession of native house girls
who took the wrong turning, conceived the idea of
locking her latest maid in her sleeping quarters
from sundown to sun-up. But the unexpected again
happened, Romeo remarking after the wedding: “My
word, missis she lockem Mary longa house time sun
he go finish; me go longa Mary’s room gammon
feeleep longa floor under bed time sun he plenty high
up. She lockem me alonga Mary, me tink him
funny, boy he catcheni Mary longa house belonga
missis. Me tink missis goodfella keepem other fella
boy w’ay from Mary belonga me.”
? * * * *
- “Wessels” : An tibo. tribe in the Alligator
Iljver country (N.T.) has a couple of freaks in two
red-headed blackfellows, brother and sister. It
alleged that they are genuine abos., not half-
castes or mixed breed, and that tlie red is genuine,
hot clue to the action of time, red ochre or any-
thing of the kind, like the reddish heads of Papuans
arid other Pacific Island—s.
“WELL, PM BLOW ED!”
“Cripes! This war do open one's eyes, don't it? Trade into Jeroosl[?] m— well, that beats
me! I always thought Jerooslem was in Heaven.”
“Widgee”: The other day I found two
rabbits caught in a single spring trap. On my way
home 1 met an oh! bloke of my acquaintance whose
fad it has always been to cap other people’s tales.
He has the biggest tomatoes in the district, and grows
more spuds on one plant than anybody- else. He
has dodged death in all manner of strange disasters,
and never goes fishing without losing lcwt. of
fish just when he was on the point of landing them.
He told me that he had once caught three rabbits
in the. one trap at the same setting. Any Abo.
rabbiter ever caught four ?
* * * *
“Bright”: The surest storm-forecasters
among my friends are the jellyfish, those masses
of yellow blubber which inhabit the river mouths
and harbors of our coast. Several hours before
the arrival of a storm these fish can be seen making
away frqji a lee-shore and heading in the direction
from which the storm is approaching.
“Friday Island”: Prohibition will not
affect the thirsty in Torres Strait.' The juice of
the green cocoa nut, if exposed to the air for two
days, will ferment and yield a not-unpleasant toddy,
•stronger than wood alcohol in both 1 insient sting
and after-effects.
* ,*.’•* *
“Enque” : In his old' age dad was a keen
fancier of pedigree Jerseys. He bought a prize
heifer in calf, and was full of anxiety as to how
she would get on and what the calf would be like.
In fact, the calf was his main concern night and
day. Dad was becoming a chronic invalid, and
hated to see my sister out of his sight. However,
she got away for a few days to Sydney, and the
first lines from Dad were: “Sorry I let you go to
Sydney. Have not been at all well; been in bed
three days now, suffering great pain. No calf yet.”
* * * *
“Ground Floor”: I had a look at those
tame black-fish in a pool at Nathania Springs, Mom-
bulk, up Belgrave way (Vic.), the other day. The
chatelaine fed her pets with tiny bits of cooked
meat in the presence of a group of inky-way men
and other sceptics. The most pronounced Thomas
Didymus of the party borrowed a handfiil of beef
scraps, and the fish took their afternoon snack from
him. Yet it could not be said that the pressman
had a lady’s hand, though he has a tender way
with him when dealing with children, fools and fish.
* * * *
“D.F.”: If as much care and skill were
given to improving some Australian fruits and
berries as has been devoted to less promising raw
material in other parts of the w ; orld, the results
might melt in the mouth. For some of the best
imported fruits have been bred from wild ancestors
of little value. The wild raspberry of the Speck
is even in its aboriginal state a delicious fruit,
practically equal in flavor to the garden raspberry,
though not as large. There are species of quan-
dong with decided possibilities. As to the wild
cherry ( exocarpus ), it is hard to beat; its only
defect is its lack of size. The Macquarie Harbor
vine of parts of the Speck has a white berry with
a tart but pleasant flavor not unlike a passion-
fruit. The cranberry would be a good thing, too,
if so much of it -were not 'stone.
“Shack ’: If “Ginger Mick” does not care
to mix his weed with a slice of plain spud a few
rose petals will keep his tobacco moist and add to
its flavor. The rose petals can be consumed with
the weed, and the high cost of smoking - thus kept '=
down.
“Mullarulla”: “G.S.” (B. 22/l/’2O) has
plenty of assurance when he “unhesitatingly places”
the three best rifle-shots in Palestine, and puts them
all in the same Light Horse regiment—presumably
his own. There were 11 other Australian regiments
in Palestine without counting the 1.0.0. and the
Maoriland Mounted Rifle Brigade, not to mention
thousands of Tommies and Indians. If “G.S.” had
time and liberty to go round studying the shooting
of every individual there, he must have had a lot
less work to do than most of us. Speaking person-
ally, I don’t know who was the best shot in my own
regiment or even in my own squadron. As for the
assertion that one of his nominations is supposed
to have been responsible for 250 Jacko scalps on
Gallipoli, I simply don’t believe it, and, anyhow’,
what evidence is the claim based on? I know’ any
number of expert rifle-shots who could not take an
oath that they had killed a single enemy, though it
was practically certain that they had accounted for
quite a number. “G.S.” is guilty of another rash
statement when he says that Colonel Fuller, of the
same regiment, was probably the best horseman in
Palestine. If the Colonel- was a better rider than
•lack Dempsey he must have been hiding his light
for a good many years. And there w’ere countless
horsemen quite unknown to both “G.S.” and the
w’riter who might have been world-beaters.
* * * *
“Pick”: Though larks, parrakeets and
plover find most safety among tussocks or bracken
aground, when headed off on the
wing by a hawk they know their
immediate salvation is to keep the
enemy below. The murderer, un-
able to dive upwards, circles
slowly under his intended victim
until he judges him high enough
for attack, and then begins a fren-
zied race for the upper position,
both birds wheeling, feinting and
side-darting wildly. If the hawk
succeeds in getting the advantage,
he partly folds his wings and
conies down at the wearied little
fellow below like a falling star.
Rarely he misses; but should he
do so the momentum carries him
far, and th« fugitive has a chance
to get back to cover or hide in a
cloud overhead. Snakes out Hog-
ging also make a practice of
attacking from above. The crawler
squirms under the frog, and even
pats him patroni singly on the
stomach with his nose till the prey
is driven to the surface. The
wriggler then rises a few inches
out of the pond and darts upon the
screeching slow-coach that might
have been safe had he remained
submerged.
“Cape Pork’: “Jim Carew” (B. 5/2/’2O)
has every reason to wonder how the nigs “telegraph”
their information from one tribe to another. The
same thing had me thinking hard years ago when I
was in charge of police camps in the Far North, and
I tried every way possible to solve the mystery. I
observed that after any important news arrived or
any sensational happening there came a series of
Morse-code signals from the blacks’ camp, always
late at night. These sounds were’ apparently made
by striking a hollow piece of dry hardwood with
some instrument, giving out a loud tap, tap, tap, which
could be heard for miles. The signal was repeated
from the “receiving” camps—l assured myself of
that. I tried often to locate the nig who banged
the drum, but beyond discovering that he was on
high ground 1 found out little —the nigs took good
care of that. Another solution 1 arrived at. When
any sensational happening occurs Binghi invariably
places his spy in the white man’s way to pick up
the news. This is his practice in all tribes ; if the
policeman arrives at a settler’s on business I’ll
guarantee that Binghi is relating every word in his
own fashion shortly after. 1 have discovered him
in most queer places trying to pick up the news,
and if hunted he will approach at a different angle.
My contention is that the first-mentioned system is
used when possible—viz., on clear nights—otherwise
Black Brother has a system, like the Zulus, of relay
runners from tribe to tribe. I will not believe in
the transference of thought, as I know the nig.’s
inquisitiveness after news would be unnecessary if
he had his medium to call upon. News by relay
runners can be carried incredible distances in a few
hours.
“Dolphin”: Where do swifts go for the
summer? In Tasmania they appear in numbers for
a few days in the spring and again in the autumn,
and for the rest of the year are absent. The swal-
lows are there all the time from their arrival in
the spring till their departure in the autumn, but
with the swifts it is different. And you can't
make any mistake about the birds. The swifts are
far bigger than swallows and far faster in flight,
whizzing through the air like bullets. The natural
explanation would be that they went away further
south for the summer, spending a few days in the
Speck on their way down and a few more on the
return flight. But there is no land south of the
Speck, except maybe a few stray rocks or islands,
till you come to Antarctica. And that seems to
be a poor hunting-ground even for swifts.
* * * tf
“The Burden” : The dugong was given to
the seas as a result of the infidelity of the women of
Taurama Head, 25 miles east of Port Moresby. In
old time the men went to the reefs to fish and stayed
there many days before returning to the village with
their spoil. On one occasion, however, like certain other
travellers, they returned unexpectedly, and found that
their faithless wives were painting Taurama red
with the men from another village. Filled with
righteous wrath the fishermen drove their wives,
many of them with babies, into the sea. We know
them to-day as dugong, and if you don’t believe me
take a good look at the next of the mammal fishes
which swims under your bows.
“The Pariah” : One of the many remark-
able timbers of Australia is the mountain swamp-
gum, which grows in the volcanic soil of an Upper
Manning valley (N.S.W.). It is, unlike the ordinary
swamp-gum, a big tree. A resident of the district
cut a long strip, about as thick as a penny, from
one of these trees, and after steaming it rolled it
up as tightly as one could a piece of ribbon. He
also cut a walking-stick which tapered from one
inch square at the top to about half an inch at
the ferrule. With the help of steam and a vice he
corkscrewed the timber, which then had the appear-
ance of a very fine piece of carving. This is now
in the Indian Forestry Museum, where it is reckoned
a prize exhibit. There is very little of this sort of
timber to be found, and it is to be regretted that
botanists when they write enthusiastic descriptions
of this and other rare timbers do not state that they
COURAGE ESSENTIAL.
THE YOUNG ’UN : “ Don't you think it's rot
about ‘only the brave deserving the fair.’
and all that sort of thing ?”
THE OLD ’UN : “Oh, I dunno! Who else d'ye
think would take 'em on these times?”
are rare. The Forest Department frequently receives
inquiries from timber dealers all over the world, and
when they are told that the timber is not procurable
in commercial quantities Australia receives a bad
advertisement.
THE SLACKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jim Ridge.vav’s eldest daughter Kate
Was pretty, young and cheery;
■She worked from early morn till late,
And never seemed to weary;
Bhe lose at five and lit the fire; -ho undo the
breakfast, washed it up; she harnessed Dobbin fot-
her sire, and milked the cows, and lei the pup,
and dug some land and ironed, and
Was never blotched or smeary.
She cooked for all the seven men
(They killed three- jumbucks weekly) ;
She’d dust the house throughout and then
f k/d wash, and never meekly,
But with a happy little song. S/.ie rode to
Murphy’s for the stores. She brought a pot of
paint along and put a fresh coat on the doors, and
bathed the kid. Whate’er she did
She always finished sleekly.
She got the youngsters off to school,
And washed for them and mended;
She had no evenings, as a rule,
For when the day was elided
She’d just as likely knit a sock, or set a swanking
tub of dough. She walled the garden in with rock.
Slic’d dust and polish high and low. She’d mend
the pens, and see the hens o
Were carefully attended. j
And all this time Bob ’Derham’s Ben
Was hanging round, and aching
To have Kate glance his way; but then
She was too busy baking,
Or .cleaning panes, or scrubbing through or rubbing-
endless rows of tin. Said she to me: “What shall
I do to put the winter evenings in from eight to
10—encourage Ben,
Or go and learn dressmaking?”
victoria.
BILLY T.


sill
• ' • / 1 '
HU f * i
- % * < >
5L'* J
S*
>
l »,' ;• ., «j. , < x x ■
m
mm *
m
'■/•.' '>
«
)
M
MlMf
. 1
.
■
m
i '« y
#
* 4
~mg %
V
it • *&> *«*
Sk
gSfgiipfci
SSMS8
,
im
■
: v : ■■>
:
$&** , , , ;
tX>
111
w
rttn
(O
He.RC'5
>.
s


ƒg
Whisky Supplies
By Appointment
High-class Quality of the
WHITE HORSE Brand are to be maintained
there can be no increase in the quantity sold to
the public notwithstanding our Government's
recent release of additional spirits for export.
Both in the interests of the public and the
reputation of the “WHITE HORSE” Whisky,
Messrs. Mackie & Co. Distillers, Ltd., have decided!
much as they regret disappointing the public,
. ma * nta * n t^ie high-class quality and age of
their brand by continuing the present limited sales.
It would be short-sighted policy to supply the
full demands now and have to give a younger
whisky a few years hence owing to the cessation
of distilling for two years during the war.
It is to be hoped, for the credit and the good
of the trade, that dealers will refrain from
refilling our “WHITE HORSE” bottles with
other spirits, but will sell these spirits on their
own merits.
Members of the retail trade in the general
interests should exercise great care in order to
prevent increase of drunkenness, which would
give Prohibitionists a weapon to further attack
our trade.
We ask the supporters of “WHITE HORSE”
to be content with a less supply and have it good
—quality is preferable to quantity.
yffllTE Ho
WHISKY
MACKIE & CO. DISTILLERS LIMITED,
Glasgow, Island of Islay, Campbeltown, Craigellachie-Glenlivet, and London.
Rounding the Buoy on Plume
Plume has made good on all types of motors,
from the big cruiser to the portable motor on
the row-boat. Satisfactory motoring de-
pends upon freedom from engine troubles ;
therefore the question of benzine quality is a
most important factor with motor-boat
owners.
Motor experts agree that
PUIME BIHZIHE
%
w'/t-
cs
(r
' ‘ V.'O
c«*
is ideal for motor-boat owners
Plume vaporises instantly—that means easy starting.
Plume forms a perfect gas, leaving no trace of raw fuel
to cause carbon troubles. Plume is uniform ;it gives
sweet running and steady, reliable power always, and
a gallon takes you further.
Whether it’s a motor boat, a car, or a motor cycle,
Plume will give you maximum engine efficiency.
Don’t ask for Benzine —say Plume.
Vacuum Oil Company
Pty. Ltd.
P 22
has a corpse at the beginning and another
at the end.
“odesty prevented my mentioning
xhe Mount Marunga Mystery’’ bv name in
the article which has caused “G.0.M.” so
much grief. I merely stated that a novel
winch had flown from my fluent typewriter
had been unjustly praised for its “brisk nar-
ration, despite the fact that “about half
the book consisted of padding, introduced
tor impurely commercial reasons.” The
from corpse to corpse consisted of
00,000 words, although I am convinced that
1 could have accomplished it in half this
number and that an even more gifted writer
(Sir Ihomas Malory) could have done it
U j lOjOOO, probably supplying a few
additional quarts of blood. An amateur
mourner like “C.0.M.” is at a disadvantage
in dealing with the motives of professional
writers like Harrison Thackeray and Wil-
liam Makepeace Owen, because lie fails to
realise that their job is to give the pub-
lishers what they want. Thackeray became
a writer because he had lost a “comfortable
fortune in speculation and at the card
table; I became one because I never had a
fortune, comfortable or otherwise, to lose,
xhackeray loaded “Pendennis” with 400,000
words because novels of this length were
demanded at the time, and I admire his
skill as a craftsman in meeting the demand.
1 also admire my own genius in satisfying
the sort of demand for which the Bookstall
Co. caters. I am satisfied that if 50.000-
word novels had been fashionable in Eng-
land m 1848 Thackeray would have told
Ins story m that compass. To suppose other-
wise would be to treat a well-equipped crafts-
A s „ were a hopeless amateur.
, can . * <( di n g to” his “tattered copy”
of Pendennis,” bound in crepe and em-
balmed with aromatics, so far as I am con-
cerned, but he will not cure me of my pro-
Myst d ery d ™ iration for “ The Mount Marunga
HARRISON OWEN.
A Satchel of Books
The art of George Lambert and David
Davies is earnestly explained by James
McDonald in two more of the Australian Art
Book series published by Alexander McCub-
bm and Co., Melbourne. McDonald writes
with generosity and understanding. Hi s
description of Davies’s art is a feeling tri-
bute to a man whose sensitiveness to moon-
light and twilight has never won him a
place among the best sellers. Born in Bal-
larat in the ’sixties, he is scarcely known
in Australia, and Melbourne National Gal-
lery has been able to spare the cash for only
one of the canvases which are prized by
artists and connoisseurs elsewhere.
McDonald’s book contains a good color and
two or three half-tone reproductions of
Davies s pictures, and the survey of the more
portentous art of Lambert is illustrated in
a similar manner.
A judge of liquor on being persuaded to
sample * black velvet” (a mixture of stout
and champagne) remarked that it repre-
sented the spoiling of two good things. C.
Bernard Cockett, M.A., accomplishes a
similar feat in Sex and Marriage. There are
half a dozen chapters in the book, and they
deal plainly though inoffensively with such
subjects as prostitution and venereal disease.
About four-fifths of each consist of text-
book facts arid figures, while the remaining
fifth is such religious exhortation as:—
Science, almost in desperation, new pleads with
Religion to take up the torch of truth... .Arise
now, O World! and battle for the gift of a pure life.
Let the cradle, O Earth, for ever be under ttie
protection of the white cross.
The two methods refuse to blend: in fact,
the conjunction is so odd in places that there
is danger of the profane being moved to
mirth.
» s The State and Revolution, by the Russian
Bolshevik boss Lenin (George Allen and
Unwin), was written before the revolution
started, so it is theory, not history. It is
rather dull and intensely venomous, but
the anger is directed at rival revolutionary
shows, theories and theorists. There are as
many brands of revolutionists as there are
of Christians, and they hate one another
more, and split hairs to the bitter end.
British Marine Painting (The Studio,
Ltd.). This is one of the highly inform-
ative Special Numbers, and, as it covers
the art of 100 years, there are many fine
examples amongst the 16 colored plates and
80 full-page illustrations in monotone.
Introductory article and notes have been
crisply written by A. L. Baldry. The naval
side of the war adds vastly to the interest
of a fine volume.
The Paintings of D. Y. Cameron (The
Studio, Ltd.). Eight satisfying reproduc-
tions in color of paintings by the well-
known Scottish artist, with an introduction
of the usual laudatory character by A. J.
Finberg. The illustrations are meant to be
framed, and Scots on this side of the world
will probably decide to get Cameron’s
brilliant color on the wall before they read
Finberg’s bagpipe solo.
A Pagan of the Hills, by Charles Neville
Buck (Watt. New York). Alexander Mace-
donia Macginis is a beautiful girl who
dresses and poses as a man. After the death
of her “paw” she runs his timber business.
Her lovers are many, including one who
killed her father in a drunken rage and a
millionaire masquerading as a mountaineer.
In the end she picks Jerry, who is, Irish,
after saving his life. The yarn is excellent
in parts, a good breeze blows through it,
and there is any amount of thrill.
The Hidden Valley, by Muriel Hine (John
Lane). This is a book of many little things
and Sheila. It is mostly Sheila ; and Sheila
is a young woman who deserves anything
of discomfort that can come to her in the
book or hereafter. Sandy, in spite of his
lapse, is not a bad fellow, and his repudia-
tion by the priggish young lady makes the
reader glad of his escape. An irritating
yarn full of small talk and stuffy ideals, but
well written in spots.
The Navy Everywhere, by Conrad Cato
(Constable). This story hardly lives up to
its title. Still the Navy did go to many un-
expected places. It climbed trees in East
African jungles. It took itself to pieces and
went by train to Belgrade, where it put it-
self together and cleared what deck there
was for action. In Itoumania it went tank-
ing on land with the Russian general Sire-
lius, who is noted as a gentleman and a
soldier whom it was a pleasure to tank with.
The odds and ends of the fleet which did odd
jobs round Somaliland and the Red Sea and
the Persian Gulf went ballooning at times
to look for deserts and lions and enemies.
In fact, its story makes much more fas-
cinating reading than that of the big ortho-
dox fleet which plugged round after the big
things in the North Sea.
From Mud to Mufti, by Bruce Bairns-
fatlier (Grant Richards). A plain account
of the writer’s wanderings as an official
artist after his discharge from hospital. The
book only helps to prove that the cabinet-
maker should stick to his glue. The illus-
trations are not up to the level of “Frag-
ments,” but they serve as an excuse for the
book.
Tales of a Cruel Country, by Gerald Cum-
berland (Grant Richards), Twenty-two
storyettes of ancient and modern Greeee, and
•each one of them a masterly demonstration
in literary compression.
Victorian Recollections , by J. A. Bridges
(Bell, London), is really the placid auto-
biography of an octogenarian who went to
Eton and Oxford, and then settled down to
the life of a country squire. He has a good
deal of quiet humor and his transparently
Tory views are insinuated rather than ex-
pressed, so loath is he to hurt any reader’s
feelings. He appears to have seen practically
nothing of the epic figures of the age, but one
little picture is worth framing :—•
On Sundays, in church, by. standing on tiptoe, we
could look across the aisle and into the pew where
the great Duke of Wellington... .was politely fixing
his ear-trurnpet (as the parson commenced his
ascent of the three-decker) before resigning him-
self to what most of us allowed to be well-earned
slumber.
The Inky Way
“Adrian Drift”: A new spook book —
“Ghosts I Have Seen.,” by Violet Tweedale
—describes; Helena P. Blavatsky, of
Mahatma notoriety, as “the woman who
grafted on the West the wisdom of the
ages.” I move to delete all words after
“West.”
A Sydney book-reviewer observes senility
creeping upon Max Beerbohm: —
But Max is getting tired —die must be getting
old. His audacity was always his greatest charm;
ill putting forth a; mere 10,000 word story as a
real book he has excelled himself. Apart from
the style, which is purely Maxian, “The Happy
Hypocrite,” labelled “A fairy tale for tired men,”
is slight, and runs on to an anticipated “curtain.”
Max wrote “The Happy Hypocrite” in his
last year at Oxford. Twenty-two years ago
Saitttsbury called it “that classic of fairy
fantasy.” The book bad gone through three
editions by the beginning of this century.
“S.T.S ”; Anybody know what “an Aus-
tralian poet” is? I have just found ip Pal-
grave’s Tennyson “Memoir” what the poet
meant by it. It must have been said nearly
70 years ago, when, by the English mind,
this country was chiefly thought of as an
alluvial goldfield. Said Tennyson of Pindar
the _ Greek: “He is a kind of Aus-
tralian poet; has long tracks of gravel
with immensely large nuggets imbedded.” If
he had only said it about Wordsworth, his
predecessor in the Laureateship—to whom it
was painfully appropriate—it would pro-
bably have been by now one of the stock
metaphors of the critics’ trade.
Melbourne has its Chinese paper now—the
Times. Republican, of course.
The Adelaide Labor paper, the Daily
Herald, had a close call lately. It had
used up its last sheet of paper and none was
to be had in Adelaide; but at the last moment
the Barrier Miner people rushed down a
Good Samaritan supply from Broken Hill,
and the Herald was able to continue to
assure its readers that capitalism-is a curse.
The habit of getting out little news-
papers clings to the Digger in sickness and
in health. Down from the B'lue Mountains
comes No. 2 of Mountain Mists, a 20-page
typewritten monthly which cheers up the
convalescent soldiers in the Bodington Red
Cross S.anitorium, at Wentworth Falls,
(N.S.W.). The hatless Digger on the grey
paper-cover looks out over the neighboring
peaks and a proud Latin scroll on a gum-
tree. Chris Tormay is the editor.
“Dominie”: I can’t tell “Fandango” (B.
5/2/’2O) whether there are any profiteers
in the bookselling business, but here are a
couple of suggestive stories. I buy the text-
books for a school. The wholesaler tried to
pass off on me the old edition of a speller
at fourpence as against sevenpence for the
latest. He had only 64, and as that was not
enough—it would have meant two different
books ; n the school —I turned them down.
When die war interfered with supplies he
again offered me these 64, and I had to
buy them at 13d. Again, being anxious
to get rid of some modern university books,
1 went to the firm from which I had bought
them and, as a tester, offered a two-volume
author for which I had paid 225. 6d. They
offered me ss. but gave me seven and six.
A day or two later I went in and inquired
if they had any second-hand copies of the
work. Yes, they had one, and if I had
wanted it I could have bought back my old
copy for 255. I have still several university
text-books for sale.
Ages of Australian newspaper editors and
chiefsLangdon Bonython (Adelaide
Advertiser), 71, and his associate-editor,
Fred. Robertson, in his 61st; D. D. Braham
(Sydney D.T.), 45; A. Carson (West Aus-
tralian). 60; W. R. Charlton (Sydney
Mail). 43; W. G. Conley (S. M. Herald),
51; E. S. Cunningham (Argus), 60; C.
Brumsdon Fletcher (S. M. Herald), 60,
and associate-editor J. McGregor, 51; E.
Dwyer Gray (Hobart World), 49 ; Guy Innes
(Melbourne Herald), 38; Walter Jeffrey
(Evening News). 58; J. J. Knight (Bris-
bane Courier), 56; Adam McCay (Smith’s
Weekly), 45; D. W. McCay (Sun, Syd-
ney). 43; Alfred Dangler (West Austra-
lian). 53; Arthur Lovekin (Perth D.
News). 60; G. F. H. Schuler (Age), in his
67 th; Knight W. ,T. Sowden. (Adelaide
Register), in liis 62nd, and his associate,
Robert Burns. 61 : W. 11. Simmonds (Hobart
Mercury), 59; Dr. Fred Ward (Brisbane
Telegraph), over 70; Watkin Wynne (Syd-
ney D.T.), in his 75th.


'Jf
( t
s
O'
r"4;'
"■ dP'! -%Ut,
■ XS*fl o «
ft #l v
UtT
A, ">t 1
,U;
O A «
*v
ft
3 'L
f/M\\f-t
m
m
Yi
; /
«£/
' S' Ay/
9\ A
, S'ZIV
f /i\
fei i MJ 1 1 fill. ftfe!
/ y
-///
I I'M
Hid %
r/A
'"X r~S
#ito%
Hl'-
Cr
/
W|
•<•'/> I
<•
iv,
V4*
Tf V.
V Kfafc / 'fc.
h-E
w
a
if 4
'///ii
s:
~ v* » t
//>/(
w inp.
!*'l
/TV
i
/f///
»*
&a
<s I '/
W/i
Hi V .XJfe V*,' */***»**
/"
(W
hs
./JU***
W
L- iW
IS
~ZSS^g/S*
»s*
'V
’ss^9
s*
ft^7
//tlta
/
f ■ kail •
r
' *~
<S
/in
///ii
/» rtartr.
The Studebaker
‘‘LIGHT SIX’
There are several features which
combine to make the Series 19
Studebaker “Light Six” so
excellent a touring car. And one of the
most noticeable is its fine roominess.
Everyone who has ridden in a car for
any length of time knows just what this
means in comfort and convenience.
Although relatively so light in weight,
this is a car of remarkable strength and
sturdiness of construction. Like all the
Studebaker grotjp, the Studebaker “Light
Six” is beautifully balanced.
Consider how the long wheelbase, the
perfect distribution of weight over the
whole chassis, the resilient underslung
springs, combine to produce fine comfort
and great tyre-mileage. The famous
L-Head Engine, fitted with the remark-
able “two-stage” Ball and Ball Car-
buretter, is distinguished by the utmost
petrol economy and a responsiveness that
is incomparable.
The long, low, sweeping lines of the
body and the elegance of the fittings are
as characteristic as the qualities of dash
and endurance for which this popular
model is famous.
The newly-designed Gear Box, swung on
a sub-chassis amidships; the Hotchkiss
Drive; Magneto Ignition, in addition to
the separate starting and lighting motors;
Leather-lined Khaki Hood and all Good-
year Tyres are special features.
Call at any Studebaker centre,
or on any Studebaker dealer,
and ask to have these qualities
demonstrated to you.
The Studebaker Engine
This is the type of engine
that is used exclusively on
the heat European cars.
Every part is readily access-
ible.
The extra large crankshaft
hearings secure a freedom
from vibration at high
engine speeds that is re-
markable. This feature is
still further emphasised by
the big connecting-rod bear-
ings.
The Dixie High Tension
Magneto is a trouble-elim-
inating factor. The Lighting
Generator is vertical in
position; has a positive
worm-drive, and can be
inspected simply by re-
moving the pressed steel
cover.
The Starting Motor has a
never - failing chain and
sprocket, direct to the
crankshaft. The removal
of a screw and pin de-
taches this unit entirely- A
“junction box,” for all wir-
ing and containing all fuses,
is immediately accessible.
H».R


Rabbit
FOX, KANGAROO,
WALLABY and other
skins are not worth
their weight in gold.
But they are bring-
ing remarkable prices.
For to p market
values consign to —-
f
WINCHCOM BE, CARSON
Sydney or Brisbane, ltd.
SALESMEN ONLY.
WRITE FOR LABELS, etc., FREE.
That Car Radiator
is Always Giving
Yon Trouble.
ƒ
Why not send it
to Brandt’s, who
will put it in A 1
order or make
you a new one?
We also make Motor-car Acetylene
Generators, Lamps, Carburetter Floats,
etc.
Best Swedish Carbide stocked in all
Granulations.
BRANDT BROS. LTD.,
“Radiator Manufacturers,”
236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And 338 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
J.&
race Powder
Have you ever used
“Iridesca” the ex-
quisitely soft and truly
invisible Face Powder
—fragrant and dainty
—a powder that clings
to the skin till you
bathe it off.
"/ ridesca” Face
Powder is of rare pur-
ity —it benefits the
tenderest skin and
affords ideal protect-
ion against winter
winds and summer's
glaring days.
In White, also
shades of Natural
and Brunette.
Ask for it at Your
Chemists.
w. 16
m
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature :
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England.
MTSIiRMMMN
■MB
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
g
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
f
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust-Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS;
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIItKj 25 O’Connell Street,
Adelaide Agent:
G. S. STOKES, 63 Brookman Buildings.
“A.W.”
“ T.Y.R
“A.W. PREMIER.”
1 9
ARMSTRONG
J
HIGH-SPEED DRILLS.
WHITWORTH.
HIGH-SPEED STEEL.
Sole Australian Representatives.—
Gilbert Lodge & Co. Ltd.
115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
f 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Inter-State Stocking Agents:—
A. SCOTT & CO., 104 Edward Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, Etd., Woranda Bldgs., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.), Etd., 894 Hay Street, Perth.
Manufactured by
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.,
Manchester, England.
CUT THE COST of PETROL
The only way to keep level with the rise of price
in Petrol is to consume less, and the only way to
consume less is to install a
Smith’s British
4-Jet
Carburetter.
It is easily attached to any Car. and the first cost is the last.
It gives Maximum Power —Maximum Economy—Rapid
Acceleration —Silent Running—Flexibility—Easy Starting and
Accessibility. All Carburetters possess one of these points but
only one possesses all of them. That is why SMITH’S 4-JET
CARBURETTER gave such wonderful War Service.
It Saves you 20 to 30 per cent.
of your Petrol Expenditure.
This sounds a lot—but we can give you the actual proof—here
in Australia. Consider what this saving means to you.
WHOLESALE ONLY—ASK YOUR GARAGE.
SOLE DISTRIBUTORS FOR AUSTRALIA:—
S. SMITH & SONS (M.A.) LTD.,
Portland House, 30-32 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
And 109 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
AMERICA'S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
in these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ƒg
TheUniversai Dustless Pulveriser
Grinding Mills for All Classes
of Material.
Write Us on Your Grinding
Propositions and we will
quote you for a Suitable
.Machine.
Separator Screens for Super-
phosphates, Chemicals, Ores,
etc.
We also Manufacture Packing
Machines for Filling Packets
or Tins.
Keg and Barrel Elevators.
Platform Elevators for Boxes
and Packages.
Gravity Runways or Con-
veyors—no power required to
drive.
Steel and Cast-iron
Conveyors.
■■■■■
The Universal Dustless
Pulveriser, Rigid and
Swing-hammer Types,
S'**'' "Uh
Shaker Feed.
Flour Mill Machinery.
Mixing Machinery.
Dressing Machinery.
We can Quote you for a Com-
plete Self-raising Flour
Plant.
Friction Hoists.
Apron and Belt Conveyors.
Combined Grinding and
Dressing Plants.
Boiler Feed Power Pumps.
Suction Sack Cleaners.
Bottle-filling Machines.
Concrete- and Mortar-mixing
Machines.
Adjustable Feeders.
Factory Experts and Con-
sulting Engineers.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.,
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. U
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Hotch Potch”: Melbourne dentists and
doctors are perturbed over Massy Greene's
embargo on the import of plaster of Paris.
They state that whilst the material itself is
forbidden entrance to the Commonwealth, all
kinds of crazy gewgaws made from it come in
as gaily as ever.
* * *
“Dido”: The busines 3 instinct. A Mel-
bourne man was arrested for shooting his
wife, and it threatened to be fatal. A reporter
who was present when the police took charge
had his sleeve plucked by accused, who whis-
pered : “Say. mister, have you got all that
down about me? Well, look here, don’t forget
to give a good mention to Chubb’s saveloys,
will you?” He was Chubb.
* * *■ *
“Silvergrass”: Met a Perth man in Mel-
bourne last week. He does his profiteering
as a manufacturers’ agent. This is how he
unburdened his mind to me: “I must obtain
agencies for Australian goods—they count
now ; American and Japanese stuff stinks.”
It sounds good, but why can’t we keep our
markets for our own all the time? Stinks
are transitory; a tariff is permanent.
* * * *
“Tas”: ,1 can go one better than “0.L.”
(B. 5/2/’2O). I sent a letter to a suburban
branch of a Melbourne timber merchant
askiiig for a quote for some 3x2 and
3 x 3 for a children’s swing, and ’some gar-
den stakes. Having received no reply after
about five or six days, I went over to the
suburban branch and asked for an explana-
tion. They staggered me by saying that no
letters were, allowed to go to a suburban
branch. All were diverted to the head
office, even though addressed to a branch.
Fed up with this circumlocutory pro-
cedure I asked them to supply the timber.
They had it cut to lengths and carted to
my house for 7s. 3d. To-day. I received a
neatly typed “official” quote from the 11.0.
stating that they “have pleasure” in quoting
me 13s. for the lot!
“Bodach” : With the island of Formosa
under his control the Jap commands the
world s supply of camphor. It now costs
20s. a lb. The pre-war price was 2s. a lb.
It is an ingredient in no less than 11 of
the “official” liniments of the British Phar-
macopoeia; and it finds a place in (I judge)
over 00 per cent, of prescriptions written in
Australia. The compound tincture (par-
egoric) is used in fully 80 p.c. of cough and
bronchitis mixtures: In ointments, cos-
metics, sprays, inhalations it is also an
ingredient. For such an article Australia
must pay the brown man’s price. Uncle
Sam knows what that means; lienee he has
started to plant the camphor-laurel. Aus-
tralia prefers to remain helpless and loaf
on loans.
* * * *
“Biologist” : When shall we lose the super-
stition that only imported tobacco is smok-
able ? As a fact, our varied climate and soils
will produce any quality desired. Special
flavors are caused by special ferments—as
with wine and cheese —and are easily com-
municated to tasteless, uncontaminated dry
leaf. That is not to say that we can get
exact duplicates of Havana, Virginia, Manila
and Turkish growths by simple inoculation;
for in a new environment fresh factors are
introduced. But we do get'a high-class pro-
duct with a character of its own. Our Ivame-
ruka Dutch cheese, our chablis and sherries,
while differing from their ancestors, are
high grade. In the writer’s Australian ex-
perience, the spring-planted tobacco is liable
to attack by a voracious green caterpillar
taking much labor to destroy—a flock of
turkeys are handy then. The summer plant-
ing escapes this pest, and there are no other
enemies. Sandy soil, fertilised with potash
and nitrogen, and plenty of heat and mois-
ture are the conditions giving the quick
growth of good leaf. Strong soil and slow
growth add the flavor you can cut with a
knife.
“Spick and Span”: So urgent was the
need for guns and shells that the British
Government ordered supplies and practically
allowed the manufacturers to mark their
own tickets. To make the scheme appear
business-like a system of costing under Gov-
ernment supervision was arranged. An
engineer was given a lathe and told to do a
certain piece of work. This he did repeat-
edly, and the ascertained cost of doing that
job was taken as the basis of the cost of the
article. The Government then paid for
(say) rifle barrels at that figure (of course
plus manufacturers’ profit) and ordered in
millions. An Australian engineer in a big
shop in the Midlands told the foreman he
would fit up and run six electric lathes
instead of one provided he was paid six
times the wage. This was right into the
boss’s hands, as he desired output, so the
engineer hired a boy, and with his help ran
the six lathes. He worked 10 hours a day
for two years, was paid £24 a day for most
of the time and made enough money to
retire upon. A mate of his on a better-paid
job for some time earned £35 a day by
himself, working several machines at the
fixed price decided between his firm and the
Government. Small wonder the war cost
Great Britain £8,000,000,000!
“ABBREVIATING THE BREED.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Fum. bal. flat, 30s. ; suit ref. m. coup. No
ehildn.” — Advt. in S. M. Herald.
Oh, married coup., you are too ref. for me!
You murder my poor country with refinement;
You take your fun and do not pay the fee;
Your views are hopelessly out of alignment—
Mean as the abbreviated ad\t. that calls you,
And so refined you see not what befalls you.
But tell me this —how such refined
Persons go through the methods coarse of birth!
Maybe for you the gods had new designed
Ways more refined to bring you down to earth!
You surely were not born in a mere bed,
But sprang Minerva-like from out Jove’s head.
Get you refined ones to sterility!
Get to the gaol the landlord who shall ban,
Who with his air of cool gentility
Rules that extinct .shall grow the young of man.
Meantime, for. God’s sake, cleave to cat or pup,
Or cuddle teddy-bears, “ref. married coup.” !
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


S'
s m
m
mm
p
hi
W
■H
STURDY
1
',.■■■;■ ;>-<> <;?&r
m ■
mßam
i
fflm
tm
.
mMFi
Hi
111
■ I
uM
'mm
: ■
H
/
■HP**
Sk
Hi
-•>
a
Hi
lii
®r
r
If
. ■ Ip
Arnmmrnm
■4b3m
111
Lfs
*
SUM
;:ill
■
■S
n
H
. .. ,- : :::- :. ::- ': -
■■ . ■ . ■.■•■■■:■■:■■ ■ ■■■■:
iPis
mss
_ v" ■ ~ sL- nsmm a
-“V -
1—
»ISnn
M
H
ifm*^****^?
M
■ pifi®
iuhihhp
n
mi
mm
k
m
m
*\
M±
I
tig
,1
■
:
\a
i
Wh 1 ■-.:■•■
■■
s; 1 .
“fc,”> * . *.
■! ISi : ■ * ■'.■■■ ■ ■. ;
s
wm .'
: mmm
■
ppphhhhb
m
mmm
m
:
.S''
i
11
Night Driving in
Perfect Security
Driving along dark country roads,
the motorist appreciates his sturdy
Perdriau Tyres. Their genuine
dependability gives added comfort
born of the real tyre security they
render.
A reinforced wall, consisting of
extra plys of closely woven and
specially treated stout British
Fabric adds enormous strength
to the tyre.
Severe and exacting tests have proved the
efficiency of the new wall, and thousands
of satisfied users realize that the purely
Australian Perdriau is superior to all
other tyres for Australian roads.
■OBTAIN A SET from your GARAGE or the MANUFACTURERS
PERDRIAU RUBBER Co. Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide. Perth
'lj
L
[\
A
::
■
A


f
ƒg
C Jfise
ofjuocite
Begin to Wear
Them !
Hose of Luxite excel
because of specialized
methods of knitting.
For mo re than 16
gears these Hose have
amazed the public bg
their durabilitg, and
theg are just as dur-
able to-dag as ever,
besides being more
beautiful.
If pour dealer is unable
to supply you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
50 York Street :: SYDNEY.
'Hi
SI
nnn
THE GRESHAM,
Brisbane's Leading Hotel.
CrlmiEicaya
—agHMm—
Do You Look
As Young As
You Feel?
MAYBE because
you feel fine you
fail to notice as others
do the little lines
stealthily forming in
your face. Take care
of your skin now.
Try this simple formula —
"A little CREME ELCAYA
rubbed gently into the skint
then if you need color, s very
little Blcaya rouge spread care-
fully over the cheeks before
the cream is quite dry; and
after that the film ol faee
ponder over ell."
CREME
ELCAYA
is a delightful, non-gieasy, dis-
appearing toilet cream that
makes the skin like velvet.
Price 2/- per pot
Large size, 5/-
Elcaya Face Powder, 4/6.
Elcaya Cold Cream, 4/6.
All good Stores and Chemists,
or direct from
Druggists’ Sundries, Ltd.,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
_> \V/' Uitf
v\
m
mn
n
vW\\\\\\\\
J/)>
cUjt
v.-~— <V'
nil
!W«W
Little
Fingers
Leave Big
Marks
Johnson’s Pre-
pared Wax is
proof against finger marks. It imparts a
brilliant, glass-like surface with the sheen
of a mirror, protecting the varnish from
moisture and heat.
contains no oil. It does not become sticky in
warm weather and cannot gather dust It cleans
and polishes in one operation. It preserves the
varnish—covers up mars and scratches—pre-
vents checking—restores the original charm and
beauty of the finish.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is unexcelled for pol-
ishing
Piano Gramophones Furniture Motor Car
Floors and Woodwork Linoleum and Leather Goods
You will be more than pleased with the results
of a single application of Johnson’s Prepared
Wax. Your dealer can provide you with John-
son’s products. If he does not keep them in
stock he can easily procure them from us.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON, Manufacturers
379 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Other Johnson
Products of
equal merit are:
Johnson’s
Cleaner
Johnson’s
Carbon
Remover
Johnson’s
Radiator
Cement
i? ,'
E
mmmmM
( w.piett' finish and Pofch
&,ss?
It,
»»•* I
Art C
*"«*»,u<y« H*tu»»i >J * n
0
, t
_ Actrns
0^
.flti%« ,# ’ 4 *
EhkSS
The King of Table Waters
Once you have sampled it you will be enthusiastic over it.
You will be glad to recommend it to your friends. Koomah
is rich in curatives, containing lime, soda, lithia and
- . magnesia.
TRY A
GLASS
WITH
A SLICE
OF
LEMON.
Agents—
E. ROWLANDS
PTY. ITD.j
Purveyors to
Vice-Royalty,
Melbourne,
Ballarat,
Sydney and
Katoomba.
English tweeds have been offered to Aus-
tralian wholesale houses during the past
month at over 30s. per yard. Add duty
and warehousemen’s profit, and the goods
cannot go on the Australian market for less
than £3 a yard—say £lO 10s. for a suit
length. No wonder the importer and the
importer’s pimps go round with small-tooth
combs looking for the struggling little Aus-
tralian industry that makes 10 p.c. with the
object of sooliug its workmen on to a strike!
The sooner some Government
takes up seriously the business of beet-sugar
making the better. Jam-boiling for the
household is now practically out of the ques-
tion, because the sugar can’t be got; yet,
even though I paid full retail price for the
fruit and 3§d. per lb. for sugar, I could make
apricot jam for from 4d. to sd. per lb.,
whereas to buy it I must pay 9d.; and I
could make strawberry jam for just half the
retail price. Can’t any Government think
of anything but wheat?
Sensible English people are kicking them-
selves over the success of the Prize Bonds
issued in France just after Wowserdom had
prevented the British scheme of the same
kind from being put through, on the ground
that it was a sinful lottery. France easily-
gathered in the desired 100 millions sterling,
The ruling-out of the plan is even more
harmful in England than it was in Australia,
because a large amount of English money is
known to have crossed the Channel at a time
when real money can’t be spared.
David Hall, when he moves to London on
March 18, will probably take some staff
with him in order to make the Agent-
General’s office more Australian. At present
it isn’t Australian at all. And the staff
of Australia House is not much better. But,
in view of the Holman Government’s pro-
pensity for giving jobs to friends, the public
Avill have to watch lest the bad condition of
things in London is made an excuse to
find a billet or so for people who merely
have the ear of a Minister.
“D.F.”: The Yankee invasion of Australia
is only history repeating itself. Between
1791 and 1812 over 50 United States ves-
sels visited Sydney, besides several that
touched at Hobax-t, Norfolk Island and other
points without going to Sydney. This meant
a big proportion of the shipping which came
to the Australia of that day. The Yankees
thus got a very large share of the import and
export trade, especially the latter, into their
hands. It was largely a result of the restric-
tions imposed on British shipping by the
East India Co.’s monopoly.
Orange (N.S.W.) Leader’s report
(11/2/’2O) of a sheep-stealing case, in
which the accused had pleaded guilty:—
Mr. Campbell, for the prisoner, said he was the
father of seven children, and there would be an eighth
shortly.
His Honor (Judge Armstrong) : This is a very
serious offence in this part of the country, yet it
seems that the man went about it in a very simple
manner. I want to see whether I can extend the
First Offenders Act to him.
That illustrates the advantage of having a
literary Judge to try you. Only go about
your job with simplicity and directness and
he will forgive you everything—even eight
children.
A moral from Russia is that the volun-
teer army is a poor concern against the
“conscript” one in the long run. The
Bolshevik Government started with a volun-
tary force and elected officers, and it nearly
lost Moscow and Petrograd. The hanging
of the two dictators seemed imminent.
Later it fitted a sternly-disciplined com-
pulsory army against the volunteers of
Kolchak, Denikin and Yudenitch, and the
volunteers began to go down. The idea
answered so well that work, and very long-
hour work, was also made compulsory. With
an eye on the need for more production the
Muscovite toiler isn’t allowed to loaf even
at his own expense. He may be quite
satisfied with what he can earn in six hours,
but he has to earn double whether he
wants it or not.
One of numberless complaints:—
When are the Defence authorities going to make
available the uniform to which I am entitled? I
have been in the cadets for very nearly three years
now, and have not been issued with any part of a
uniform. Whenever I asked for a uniform I was
told that all the factories were too busy making
uniforms for the A.I.F. to be bothered making any
for the cadets. The war has been over quite a
long time now, and I am still unable to get even
a pair of boots, which would be a very big item see-
ing that boots have reached such high prices and
drilling knocks a lot out of them.
The Defence Department seems determined
not only to antagonise the boys but to
embitter tlieir parents as well against com-
pulsory training. And Pearce still reigns
smugly in that Ministry.
“Fellmonger”: What with careless strip-
ping, neglect, fires and one thing and another
Australian wattles have suffered grievously
enough. But now that black-wattle bark is
quoted at £ll a ton in Melbourne and silver
wattle is fetching up to £6 —a price which
would have been reckoned good for black
wattle not many years ago—there is a
danger of the more valuable species being
exterminated. It pays, for the moment, to
strip mere whipsticks instead of lotting
them grow to a decent size and seed freely
before stripping them. At best the black
wattle is rather a capricious tree, which
grows in some places and does not thrive
in others that appear just as suitable. It
ought to be worth while to give it some kind
of protection and a reasonable chance, for
it has been a big asset and could be made
a bigger.
“R. 8.” : The log-glut at Cairns —mostly of
maple, pine and silky oak —hadn’t a chance
to recover from the maritime strike of March,
1918, when the engineers’ strike got it.
There were lately over 1000 logs in the
pool at Cairns, besides some sinkers stacked
ashore; and there are great logs in the rail-
road yards between Herberton and Ravens-
lioe, and between Atherton and Tarzali —
among them a pine log 14ft. girth and a
top log at that. All the cry is for maple;
silky oak, a beautiful timber, is kept from
a larger popularity by the fool mechanics
who carve and artisticate it. It is natu-
rally decorative, and its design of manufac-
ture should, therefore, be chastely, almost
primly, plain. The misusers of it cover it
with whirligigs and scores and ornaments,
and so destroy all its dignity and beauty.


f
ƒ
STORAGE
BATTERY
TRADE MARK REGISTERED
Service First.
Advice Second.
Sales Third.
There’s our policy in a nutshell.
First—When the customer comes
in, find out what HE wants. Give
him satisfaction at the lowest charge
consistent with a good, thorough job.
Second—Tell him how to prevent
battery trouble. We’re not anxious
to repair his battery, except to make
it last longer.
Third—When he really needs a
new battery we want him to buy it
from us, naturally, and to buy a
Willard with Threaded Rubber
Insulation—because that battery will
last longer and give him less occa-
sion for expense on repairs than any
other battery he can buy.
g
STORAGE
BATTERY
.Willard Threaded Rubber Insulation
%
<9
A
0
%
Di
&
9B


(MURA HEALS
FACE PIMPLES
Were Large and Burned. Irritated
So Could Not Sleep at Night.
“My face was covered with pimples.
The pimples were large and festered
f
and appeared scattered
and burned. The irrita-
tion caused me to scratch
them and when I did they
became large eruptions
and used to bleed. The
irritation was that bad I
could not sleep at night.
“I was advised to try Cuticura so I
sent for a sample which relieved me. I
then bought some more Cuticura Soap
and Ointment which healed the pim-
ples." (Signed) Miss Margaret Ken-
nedy, Humber St., Oamaru, N. Z.,
March 17, 1917.
Use Cuticura Soap and Ointment
exclusively for all toilet purposes.
Soaptocleanseand Ointment to heal.
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Sold by dealers throughout the world.
fjL largest selling
i quality pencil in
the world
c
VENUS
PENCILS
ƒg
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTS3IEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
ftrhnfyuwn
m
CASHS
m l
mzm
The Best You Can Get
for Marking Linen
Whether Household or Personal —en»
cures your property against loss. Any
Name woven into a Fine Cambric Tape
in Fast Color. Always ready to be sewn
to any garment or article on any material
Prices —12doz. 4/6, 6doz. 3/3, 3doz. 2/3
Sold by All Best Drapers
Made in Australia by
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.,
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Vic.
Write for Style Book
673
f
PARIS
CARTERS
No met al
can touch you
FOR WELL-GROOMED
MEN
Socks supported without sagging,
pulling or binding.
Retailed Everywhere
Indents and Wholesale,
Walter Cathro Pty., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
Makers, A Stein & Co., Chicago.
Centrifugal Pumps
are the simplest, most efficient, most
durable and satisfactory water lifting de-
vices. Suited for all classes of service—
irrigation, drainage, excavating, tank*
service, for use in breweries, sand and
gravel washing plants.
Fairbanks-Morse Quality insures the
utmost in pump efficiency and reliability.
Ask your dealer today for details and
specifications of various types.
Eangar, Gedye & Company, Ltd., Sydney.
James Wardle & Company, Adelaide.
James Bartram & Sons, Ltd., Melbourne.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Malloch Bros., Perth.
Donald & Sons, Ltd., Masterton, N.Z.
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart, Tasmania.
Fairbanks, Morse tr(g
I INCORPORATED I W B MANUFACTURERS
Foreign Dept.
NEW YORK, U. S. A.
London,
England
Buenos Aires,
Argentina
I
•YALE"
Don’t Jar Your Nerves
With Slamming Doors
Equipped with Yale Revers-
ible Door Closers, all doors
close noiselessly.
The Yale Reversible
Door Closer
is a device that closes the door
effectively, every time and
without noise. It brings com-
fort and quiet to the home, the
office and the factory. It forever
stops the annoying slamming
that sets your nerves on edge.
It is easily fitted, just as re-
ceived, to any door without
change or trouble.
Dependability of performance
has marked Yale Products frc
half a century. You get it in
Yale Padlocks, Cabinet Locks,
Builders’ Locks and Hardware,
Chain Blocks and Bank Locks.
The Yale & Towne Mfg. Co.
Established 1868
New York U. S. A.
ƒ
L
TRIPLEX BLOCKS
Special features: —
1 — Hoists twice as fast as a screw-geared block.
2 Continuous Hand Chain Guide, permitting rapid
3 Rated on long ton(224olb.)and tested to 50% overload(336olb.).
4 Can be fitted to any length of lift.
5 Spare parts available.
G —Hand and Electric Blocks available from stock.
FRANK R. PERROT, Sole Australian Agent,
334 Kent Street, Sydney; 883 Hay Street, Perth.
L. BANNISTER, 39 Queen Street, Melbourne.
EVANS, DEAIvIN & CO., 121 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Tlie Germans complain that several war-
criminals on the French lists are dead. Well V
Rewards have often been offered and paid
for the dead bodies of lesser outlaws.
The sun-tanned Melbourne girls are rush-
ing the so-called “brown make-up,” which
has been a craze in Paris. The Best find
that a season in brief expensive bathing-
gowns at Portsea. leaves them like half-
baked tarts. It’s awkward for low evening
dress, so on goes the new paint, and
they appear in the delicate bronze of an
Indian belle, with a brown-red autumn tint
in cheek-rouge.
“Banksia”: The simplest and cheapest
musical instrument on earth —ahead even of
the Koepang piano—is the gumleaf. Using
this as a kind of mouth-organ, the abos. at
Lake Tyers (Vie.) manage to extract from
it a very fair -minor melody of the doleful
kind. When a gumleaf band of half a dozen
get going the effect is not bad, provided there
is all out-doors to absorb the sound ; it's a
little too wailful and monotonous for
chamber music. A fairly small, roundish leaf
is taken for choice.
“Mellish Reef”: In reporting an earth-
quake that occurred on the 2nd inst., Sydney
Daily Telegraph said :
From these seismograms the origin has been com-
puted in lat. 7j per cent, south, long. 149 per cent,
east.
After a search of the latest Admiralty charts
and sailing directions, and looking over the
market reports, I find that the ’quake got
lost between the high cost of living and the
profits made by the British Govt, out of the
sale of our wool.
Captain Ernest Hart, who was private
secretary to Sir William Robinson when
that sportive young man was Governor of
South Aus., is now on the editorial staff of
the New York Herald. Like his S. Aus-
tralian chief, he had a passion for amateur
theatricals, and turned out some pretty good
things. “The Nut Brown Maid,” with our
own Nellie Stewart in the title role, was
his chief success —it was played at the
Princess’s. N’Yorkers regard him as one
of their breeziest writers.
“Norbell”: “Seymour” says (B. 5/2/’2O)
that he has lost the run of Dan Ilassett, the
champion whip-cracker. I met Dan a couple
of years ago at Jandowae, near Dalby (Q.),
where he was representing a stock and
station firm. Dan told me of a compliment
that was flung at him in Melbourne. He
had been doing a whip-cracking stunt in
Bilanderson’s “Squatter’s Daughter,” and
was one day riding through Fitzroy, idly
swishing his whip, when a paper boy yelled
at him, “Rats, you crack a whip! Kid yerself
you’re Dan Hassett!”
“Bally Who” : Apropos insurance of artists
engaged in dangerous stage pursuits. Many
things look hazardous on the stage which
really are not so, and of course many entail-
ing tremendous risks don’t give any in the
audience (except maybe a stray doctor) the
semblance of a shudder. Latter class of
feats are performed by inexperienced show-
men. I was with an artist who collected a
hundred a week for “shaking hands with
death” when we stumbled on a crowd watch-
ing a man standing on a granite block swing-
ing in mid air. He was calmly lighting his
pipe. My artist friend clutched my arm.
“What’s the- matter?” I asked. “Look at
him,” said the death-derider, shuddering—
“the fool!”
“Musso”: The unsophisticated child of
Nature is not extinct. The boat transporting
a dramatic co. from Strahan to Launceston
(Tas.) was held up at Circular Head. The
mummers got busy with drama to charm the
Stanley spud-diggers. “East Lynne” was
the first offering. The Lady Isabel (Nella
Campbell) was the darling of the housemaid
at the pub after the show and all next day.
That night “The Vendetta” went up, and
then the impressionable maid wouldn’t look
at the leading lady. Curious to know the
wherefore, Nella persuaded the outraged
damsel to explain. “Oh, how could you!”
she said reproachfully. “You were so good
the night before! But last night you stabbed
your father, and nearly killed him. He’s
such a nice man, too —he’s in the bar now!”
This girl could see from the top of “The
Nut” (Circular Head) the smoke from the
distant railway, but had never actually seen
a train.
Studley Hall, formerly the Kew home of the
Pinsehofs, which has been a State white-
elephant for nearly two years, has been sold
at auction for £5600. the figure the Vic. Gov-
ernment paid for it/ Bowser bought the place
for a V.I). Hospital for women. McPherson,
as Finance Minister, consented to the bargain,
and freed the coin from the Treasury, but
as member for Hawthorn he then found
himself compelled by influential constitu-
ents to object to the building being put to
the use for which it was acquired. Long
ago John Gavan Duffy declared that there
was a difference between the mere member
and the Minister, and that it was awkward
for everybody when the member part of a
man did not see eye to eye with the Minister
part of him. In this instance the lack
of harmony cost the State the interest on
£5600 for two years, not to mention up-
keep and earetaking.
DREAMIN’.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lyin’ on the hillside,
Dreamin’ hours away,
Lettin’ all my work slide—■
Work ! On such a day ?
The sky is like a blue cup,
Shinin’ through the trees;
I feel that I could reach up
An’ set it on my knees.
A bird is singin’ hear me
The sweetest song I’ve heard ;
My soul has wings to steer me
Upsoaring with the bird.
A questin’ bee is mumblin’
In dreary monotones;
A lispin’ creek is stumblin’
O’er great smooth-headed stones.
Lyin’ on the hillside,
Dreamin’ hours away,
Lettin’ all my work slide —
Work! On such a day?
N,S.\V.
IVY GIBBS.


FITTINGS
BUILD THE PERFECT BICYCLE.
TRADE MARKS
B.S.A.
THOROUGHLY
BRITISH.
w HEN the experienced cycle rider sees the
famous “ Three piled rifles ” trade mark of
the B.S.A. Fittings, he knows that at the back
of that particular bicycle are the experience and skill
of years in the production of high-grade cycles.
The choice of a Bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings
is a matter of business, the economy, reliability and
freedom from trouble making the purchase of B.S.A.
a sound investment which will never be regretted.
Regular B.S.A. Riders say there is nothing to equal
the satisfaction of the service which underlies the
transfer of the “Three piled rifles.”
The range of models and constructional improve-
ments shown in the B.S.A. Catalogue will illustrate
why the Bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings holds the
predominant position in the cycling world.
T*
r
r\
1
:w
B.S.A. Fittings are
Guaranteed Interchangeable.
Exact replacements of any part can be
obtained- Don’t be put off with “pattern
fittings,” but look for the B.S.A. Trade
Marks on EVERY PART. They are
your guarantee.
Send for B.S.A. Handbook
free from
D. Y. RENNIE,
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS,
MELBOURNE.


A. Saunders’ Nut Dish and Cracks, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, embossed border, 84/-
m
0>
m
I
r
K«
A. Saunders’ Dinner Cruet, pure
Silver-plated Frame, Crystal Cut-
Glass ■ Bottles, 50/-
Saunders’ Soup Tureen, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, plain design, £lO/10/-
A. Saunders’ Flower
Vase, pure Silver-
plated, Gilt-lined,
6-inch, 12/6.
m
mam
A. Saunders’ Butter Dish, pure Silver-
plated. A 1 quality, Crystal Glass Dish,
25/-
SILVER-PLATE
A. Saunders’ Biscuit Barrel, polished
Oak, A 1 quality, Silver-plated
Mounts, Porcelain China lining,
gf
ƒ
A. Saunders’ Combination Fruit and Flower Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, highly burnished, £lO/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street
(Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A. Saunders' Flower
Vase, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality,
clear Crystal Glass,
'
. i
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
highly burnished and engraved, 45/-
as
anaßaSM
s*-:
m
A. Saunders’ Jam Dish, pure
Silver-plated Frame, Fancy Glass
Dish, 25/-
A. Saunders’ Hot Water Kettle,
pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
highly burnished, 90/-
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Stand, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, £6/10/-
p
o
FREE
Write to-day for Special
Recipes and full Directions
for making delicious Ices and
Summer Drinks. Sent free
on application to
NESTLE’S
347 Kent Street
SYDNEY
A
Summer Day Treat!
HOME MADE ICES
Delicious
Economical
Easy to Make
WITH
NESTLE’S
Condensed Milk
Made in Australia .
NlBO


Australian Mutual
Established
1840.
87Pittst"%» Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1018 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed for 1918
exceeded.. ... •• •• •• i 11,000,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. •• .. £1,700,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £39,000.000
Annual Income over .. .. .. £5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY. F.S.S., General Manager.
Situation Vacant.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the
position of GENERAL MANAGER of
a leading GENERAL ENGINEERING
FIRM in New South Wales, stating age,
qualification and salary required.
Applications by letter received until
Wednesday, April 14, 1920, addressed to
“PERSONALITY,”
Box 241 G.P.0., Sydney.
AllllltitMllPlllß.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres .Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH 1). McINTuSH.
1" IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY at 2.30.
THE REVUE OF SURPRISES,
BUZZ, BUZZ.
Plans at Nicholson's and the Tivoli.
“|"IVOI,I THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
THE FANTASTIC MUSICAL COMEDY,
“AS YOU WERE.”
Prices as usual.
It I T E It I O N T ll E A T It E. SI DMii.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
LIGHTNIN’.
A Comedy Drama by Wincheil Smith and Frank
Bacon, introducing the famous American character-
actor JOHN D. O’HARA and a specially-selected
cast of players.
Plan at Paling's.
l-f K It .11 A .1 E S T V ’ S. si I) N K V.
' * Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NIGHTLY AT 7.50.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
THE REVUSTCAL COMEDY DE LUXE.
THE BING BOYS ON BROADWAY.
For the First Time in Australia.
Plans at Paling's. Prices as usual.
D ALACE THEa T R E, SYDNEY.
Sole Direction J. and N. TAIT.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS OF
EMELIE POLiNI
in the English Comedy-Drama,
THE LITTLE DAMOZEL.
Plan Nicholson’s. Day Sale White Rose.
U N lON Pic TLll IS TIIISAT It IS S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE. LYRIC. EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS,
WESTS OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
c_| Kit Al.Ulis'n’s ’l'll ISA Tit IS, .ME I, HOC it MS.
Direction C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
•I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present their Gorgeous
Pantomime Extravaganza,
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY.
Pian at Allan’s. Popular Prices.
T ll |,; A T R n It OIA l„ MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LID.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Attractive
Musical Plav,
KISSING TIME.
Plan at Allan s. Prices as usual.
INC’S Til EAT It IS. MISI,It() y K N IS.
Lessees: BAILEY * GRANT
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. and N. TAIT and BAILEY and GRANT
present their Grand Snectneulir Pantomime,
MOTHER HUBBARD.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan's.
U OYT’S THEATRES. MELBOURNE.
1 Also SYDNEY.
DIS LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
TOM MIX in
THE COMING OF THE LAW.
BERNAD DUDLEY & MARIE BLANCHE
in THE GREAT IMPOSTOR.
Prices as usual.
“I" he alla:: wilkie company,
Including Miss FREDTSWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
Touring New Zealand in
HINDER WAKES, CANDIDA, THE SCHOOL FOR
SCANDAL, SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER. TRILBY,
CAMILLE, THE SILVER KING, THE MIDNIGHT
v WEDDING.
Wanganui to Feb. 28, Masterton March 1,
Wellington March 6 to 20.
QI'ACIA It Iu M, MEL 1$ O U It NE.
JAZZ PALAIS
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING,
8.15 to 10.45.
BUILDING ARTIFICIALLY COOLED.
MISS HUTCHISON'S JAZZ BAND.
Admission 1/.
Single Dances -/8
Book of 14 Dance Tickets 3/6
Build Better Walls and
With Beaver Board
OUO
nt
Beaver Board makes
the living room
bright, cheerful and
inviting.
Rejuvenate the bed-
room with Beaver
Board.
W
Si;
Beaver Board con-
forms lo church
architi. * jre.
Public pa tronage
quickly appreciates
the improvement
made by Beaver
Board.
m
JrfV*
gf
Beaver Board
changes the attic n-
to the most popular
room in the house.
DEAVER BOARD is manu-
factured timber from the pure
wood fibre of Canadian Spruce
logs.
It is built up under high pressure into light,
firm, strong, board like panels which come in
various sizes from six to sixteen feet long and
thirty-six and forty-eight inches wide.
It is strong, durable, artistic paneling for
interior decoration of walls and ceilings in
place of lath, plaster, paper, wood, steel and
other lining materials.
It will not crack, chip, warp, fall or become
damp. It keeps rooms warm in winter, cool
in summer. Resists sound, shocks, jars and
vibrations.
It is sized on both sides by a patented
“Sealtite” process. Takes flat or oil paint
freely without a primer. Easy to erect, easy
to keep clean. Lasts a life time!
The ideal, durable, dependable wall and
ceiling for homes, cottages, bungalows, farms,
offices, stores, factories, public buildings, dis-
play rooms, etc.
/ou can permanently restore cracked or
shabby walls and ceilings with Beaver Board
—the most versatile of building materials.
Beaver Board can be obtained from Timber
Merchants and Builders’ Furnishers. See your
local dealer!
THE BEAVER BOARD COMPANIES
Thorold, Ont., Canada London, England
Buffalo, N. Y., U. S. A.
Mills and Works in Canada and U. S. A.
Resident Representative—O. D. GORDON
G. P. O. Box 2408 Sydney, N. S. W.
ƒ
You can't expect
Beaver Board re*
suits unless this
trademark is pa
the back of the
board you buy.
PUU WOOD Tllilf
T
FOR. BETTER. WALLS & CEILINGS
AmiihrnientK.
|y|AJKSTIC THEATRE, MELIiOI'ttNE
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
MITCHELL LEWIS
in
THE CODE OF THE YUKON.
MatinCes daily -at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Amusements.
aitri'AXMA TIIK.U' UK. HBKItUUIAIi.
TfTR f.ATF.ST ANO TiEST IN'
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
•he productions of CM\PLIN, VITACKAPII, PATIIK,
WORLD and SKT.ZNICK.
Money Power or Luxury.
DR. FREDERICK LAW, author of “MASTERY
OF SPEECH,” gives in his fascinating course of
Eight Lessons the secret which, if you had the
choice of only one gift for your boy or girl,
you would probably choose above money or power
or luxury, or any other desirable possession—
namely, the ready ability to be a good talker
at all times and under every conceivable condition.
50,000 took the course in England
in three months.
g
Send 42/- to the STANDARD ART BOOK COMPANY DTD., 29 Woolbroker
Chambers, Young Street, Sydney, and the above course will be forwarded you.
The Soper'Fx SR” WATCH
The original “Fx and R ” Watches are known throughout Aus-
tralasia for their marvellous accuracy and endurance.
But, as usual, we progress; and so now we are showing the
SUPER “Fx and R ” WATCH.
Its presenl price is 63/- in steel case, but what a watch it is!
Every latest improvement known to horological science is in it.
It is jewelled in every part where wear occurs. It will go with
profound accuracy; indeed, it is so accurate that a ship could be
steered to England by it.
For strength and standing up against hard wear we unhesi-
tatingly say that no watch the world over equals the SUPER
“Fx and R ” Watch.
We stock “Fx and R ” movements in every style of case.
Gent.’s full-size open-face
oxidised super “Fx and R,
15-je\velled le\er, 63/-
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sytlnev,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
v;
This is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of t’je best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Gnns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
318 Litlfc Collins St., Melbourne.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
AY is Suriu.Y —
JXBRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
|» av i n g Blocks, Build e r s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS lIAI.L, LONDON, E.C.
LOUD STREET, PERTH, AV.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE. MELBOURNE, VIC.
684 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.AV.
nnnirliw in all naits of tho wo’-’ \


THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE
(STATE GUARANTEE) ACTS AS
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and AGENT.
Expert, Efficient and Economical Management.
Write or call for full particulars, CULWULLA CHAMBERS, 67 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
1 W- GARRETT, Public Trustee.
f
3 O
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
■*
%
DT
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 30 Clarence st;. Sydney
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
ƒg
f
ƒg
CARRIAGE
PAID.
The
“EXCLUSIVE”
Dressy Tan Willow Calf Shoe,
with fashionable Square Toe, good
walking heel, and worth more
shillings than the shillings you are
asked to pay. It is genuinely
welted—all “EMBASSY” Foot-
wear is the same way. Order a
pair to-day.
47/6 pair.
“EMBASSY” Shoes are
the Standard.
PIKE BROTHERS
Townsville.
LIMITED,
Brisbane.
Toowoomba.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Heb Majesty’s .... “The Bing Boys on Broadway”
Criterion “Lightnin”’
Palace “Th .-j Little Damozel”
Tivoli “Buzz Buzz”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Sleeping Beauty"
Royal “Kissing Time”
King's “Mother Hubbard”
Tivoli “As You Were”
Hoyt's I)e Luxe & Lyceum Sieving Pictures
Majestic Si.ving Pictures
Melba Slaving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciauiuji Dancing
Following on the nimble heels of “As
You Were,” “Buzz Buzz” at Sydney Tivoli
is exactly what the name implies—an irri-
tating noise without the capacity to sting
the fancy or provide sweetness for the
memory to feed upon. That Andre Chariot
could have made it one of the Prince of
Wales Theatre successes suggests miracles
in the way of production; but Saturday
wasn’t the day for miracles at the Tivoli,
and Minnie Love had to work hard to get
her effects out of such uninspired numbers
as “Coupons for Kisses,” with Chas. Work-
man as fellowrconspirator. “Maoriiand/i’
another starred number, is a curious mix-
ture of the dancing postures on a bit of
Gyppo tapestry and a one-step. The manage-
ment had better revise it before putting it
before even the mild audience of w’oolly
Oamaru, which is the supposed abode of
the lovesick Maori maid. Imported
comedian Gee keeps his funny bone in his
feet, and raises the glad hand by those
scintillating members; and Billy Rego
manages to lift a laugh or two on his own
account when he and Gee join forces in
the already threadbare “Katie.” As usual
at the Tivoli, the dresses of the girls are
clean and bright, the girls themselves are
pretty, and the ballets arranged by an
eye that knows color. Arthur Aldridge
invites Maude to come into the garden in
a voice of honeyed sweetness; but the
cleverest thing in the revue is the final
sketch, wherein is shown what a modern
producer can make of a dramatic sketch
when he introduces the übiquitous
songandance.
Captain Lawrence Cecil, M.C., lately seen
at the Palace as Jerry in the revival of
“Peg o’ My Heart,” gives Sydney a week,
starting from March 6, of selections from
Shakspeare. It is a long march from Bill
to Peg. but deep acquaintance with Ben-
son’s Shakspearean company will keep the
ex-warrior from falling by the way. The
Repertory Theatre is the scene.
“Lightnin’,” at the Criterion, seems to
have become a hobby or a vice with Svdney
playgoers. Throughout the months that it
has been running hundreds of people who
never saw each other before drunken Bill
Jones showed up now regard each other
“AS YOU WERE .” AT MELBOURNE
TIVOLI.
Vera Pearce in a very old dress.
as life-long acquaintances. By the look of
things, lots of ’em will die of old age in the
theatre before the play is taken off.
Emelie Polini has done a lot of attractive
acting at Sydney Palace, but it is doubtful
if anything else she has done was so popular
as her Little Damozel. The show is in its
11th week and going without a limp.
At Sydney Majesty’s the Dowager
Duchess of Dullwater fastens her hose with
her diamond garter, and so provides the
thread for the whole structure of girl and
whirl to hang upon. They still call it
“The Bing Boys on Broadway”; but they
might call it almost anything.
In “The Cheat” Fannie Ward doesn’t
know that her husband is on the verge of
bankruptcy. Into the scheme of things
comes Sessue Hayakawa as Hishuru Tori
and falls in love with her. Now, Fannie is
treasurer of the local lied Cross Fund whose
petty cash amounts to £2OOO. Finding by
this time that • hubby’s affairs are compli-
cated, she complicates them further by
investing the £2OOO in a mining venture,
and of course that pushes the bottom out.
The wife appeals to Tori; the usual struggle
in his flat ensues, during which the gentle
Jap manages to mark the lady’s shoulder
with a red-hot brand. Wife shoots, husband
is accused, and it’s a great moment when
the lady tears off her dress in court to prove
hubby’s innocence. This thrills Sydney
Globe and Haymarket. Gladys Brockwell
is “Chasing Rainbows” at Hoyt’s and the
Piccadilly. At the Crystal Palace and
Strand Alice Brady as Redhead, the
cabaret dancer, captures the fancy of a revel-
ling millionaire, who marries her in drunken
haste and in sober leisure realises what a
gift the gods have thrown him. William
Desmond is Bare-fisted Gallagher at the
“As You Were.” at
Melbourne Tivoli.
Hugh Steyne as a libel
on Shakspeare.
Empress, and at
the Lyric the good
old Kelly Gang
gird on the armor
of unrighteousness
and defy law’n’-
ordcr while they
have a leg left to
stand on.
“As You Were,”
now at Melbourne
Tivoli, is a very
old friend in an
entirely new dress
or series of dresses :
it is revue worked
on the idea of a
modern person
thrown back into
a n ancient world
and introduced to
ancient personages.
They are so ancient
that they extend
beyond Helen of
Troy to our hairy
forefathers, wh o
cracked nuts while
hanging to the
family tree b y
their tails. A
recent Tivoli show
derived fr o m the
same idea, which,
by the way, had its daintiest and most
poetic setting in the first act of “The
Arcadians.” Offering various opportunities
for mock-historic costumes and mild lapses
into scenic expense, “As You Were” is a
matter of more than usual Tivolian import-
ance. All the best ingredients of popularity
are in it. The only thing to be urged
against its prospect of beating the house’s
record is the extreme Englishness of its
happiest jokes and repartees. When, for
instance, the transported Cockney, being up
against his ignorance of Ninon de L’Enclos,
asks “Why wasn’t I educated instead of
being sent to Oxford?” the amphitheatre
remains even more silent than when
Britain’s supposititious Labor Prime
Minister concludes a tangled oration with
the hope that civilisation will be developed
until all artists have been converted into
plumbers, and the hated name of Gentle-
man has no representatives left. For the
sake of its nippy dialogue and spectacular
effects, however, the most uncompromising
sons of democracy can forgive “As You
Were” its trespasses. The wheezes and
witticisms are far above the average of
back-talk. Some of them seem dragged in
regardless _of effort; the others have a
graceful air of spontaneity.
* * * *
More talent, histrionic and vocal, than the
co. possesses would not be wasted in this
comparatively good cause. Bert Clarke does
well enough as a gilded profiteer, who flies
back through the ages to discover that girls
were deceivers ever. But the same fat part
might. be made more of by a stronger
comedian. Yera Pearce is impressive in one
or two instances—her Queen Elizabeth is
her most satisfactory disguise—but she
doesn’t offer a suggestion of a possible Ninon
at the Court of Louis the Fourteenth, nor
is her singing voice as sweet as love’s young
dream. The co. is woefully lacking in musi-
cal expression. Marie La Varre has saucy
charm but no turn for melody, and though
Hugh Steyne is fairly droll he is utterly
untunefuh Steyne is best remembered as
a sacrilegious caricature of Shakspeare con-
trasted with a dignified Bacon (Ellis Hol-
land) , and Claude Flemming strikes one
forcibly as a breezy Americanised Walter
Raleigh and the awful vulgarian in the last
scene who stands for all that is crudely
offensive in Tory satires on the Labor Party.
Australia's Six Most Beautiful Gills appear
to have mislaid a large portion of their
transcendent loveliness, but the personality
of Mione Stewart is altogether charming and
fully worthy of her family name. Moreover,
her rendering of the Watteau song, and her
duet with another Little Bit of Greece, may
be said to bite one’s ear.
Of one-man shows in Melbourne
J. C. Waite, who hangs 92 canvases at the
Athenaeum, is one of those genre painters who
idealise the domestic virtues until they become as
blatant as sins. He is fond of depicting events like
auntie peeling onions, or Willie showing his first
valentine to grandpa, and he paints into each face
a fatuous content that leaves no room for intel-
ligent expression. His proudest effort is “Introducing
the Stepmother,” which was hung on the line at
the Royal Academy and represents the form of bathos
that the Academy delights to honor. Nothing can
exceed the sentimentality of this subject, with dad
in his 1880 whiskers and velvet coat trying to push
his daughter into the arms of his new missus, made
ponderous and placid by the female garment of the
period. He dwells heavily on mid-Victorian details
in other scenes, and his propriety is so great that
all of his skies are well-behaved and most of his
trees seem to have been curled by the hairdresser.
Australian scenery, which might have awakened his
imagination, is presented with the same maddening,
muddy color, which is more cheaply produced by
machinery. In his three or four portraits, however,
he loses some of the formality of his English educa-
tion. -Though his portrait of the late Lord Linlithgow
would make a good frontispiece for a treatise on
vacuums, his studies of the late Panton, P.M., and
the celebrated Butters; once Mayor of Melbourne,
are good enough likenesses with a spark of life in
them.
A small studio at 125 Collins-street shows 14
canvases by W. I). Knox. The most conspicuous
performance, “Croydon,” is a pictorial echo of W.
B. Mclnnes, but the artist has enough personality
and talent to assert himself in other works from
his brush. “Lengthening Shadows” takes the eye
with its fiat, shaded foreground and sunlight dying
in the distance, and the artist has caught something
of the shimmer of hot days in another attractive
subject, “The Way to the Farm.” In the bit of
bush realism, “A River Bend,” Knox makes its
truth charming by his wary handling of some rather
warm color. Correctness of tone and an effective
unforced palette enable him to realise some sea-
pieoes strongly, and he has also a manner of present-
ing the creeping mystery of evening which could be
exploited commercially without damaging his reputa-
tion. “The Summer Moon” and “The Breath of
Evening” should appeal to buyers who like poetry
in pictures of a twilight world.
Nearly ten weeks have passed since Jack
Cannot started to warble his affection for
Dame Lupino, and he continues to approach
the subject with an ecstasy almost doubled
by the rapture of the lady. Coming from
a face that has lasted seven furious husbands
and innumerable nobblers of gin, the coy
inquiry, “Now that you have got me, what
are you going to do?” would in ordinary life
be answered with something hard and heavy,
but Cannot replies to the female as if he
were nearing a mad moment in an Elinor
Glyn novel. The song affords a neat bit of
burlesque, and goes for full value because
the comedians omit naught to exaggerate
its feeling.
“Kissing Time” at Melbourne Royal is
making so much money that it could afford
to drop a little of the dialogue in the first
act. Leslie Holland’s interview with
Gladys Monc-rieff, coming after his recital
of what was perhaps intended to be a song
to some chorus-ladies, is an unduly pro-
tracted episode. The first half of that first
act continues to go slow. Even Maude
Fane’s ballad. “Some Day Waiting Will
End,” which she warbles in her sweetest of
mezzo voices, would sedsn at least 15 seconds
too long if it were not assisted by a tableau
of listening womankind, together with a
silent accompaniment of' color-notes in
Violet Yorke’s pale mauve skirt and a pic-
ture-hat to match her baptismal name.
Poor Agatha, the Prime Minister’s
daughter, is still yearning for the Society of
Prince Winnie Roma in “The Sleeping
Beauty” at Melbourne Majesty’s. But
Aggie doesn’t get a chance to bring her
charms to bear on the lovely juvenile. The
brutal management only allows her to
appear in a large pair of goggles and last
season’s hat, the inference being that an
undisguised Agatha might really capture the
Prince and derail the plot.
Tom Mix is social-reforming with a
strn-'ght left and ready gun at Hoyt’s
Me’boorcc house this week. The picture is
called “The Coming of the Law” and shows
a good deal of beauty in distress so that
Mix may pose as a Superman. A more
restrained subject, “The Great Impostor.”
makes Bernard Dudley and Marie Blanche
the sport of Dan Cun'd, while the third
item on the lull d’splays the lighter s ; d?
of Montague I <we in a pleasing comedy-
drama, “A Broadway Saint.” The
Britannia is enjoying a week of sunshine
with Mary Pickford as “The Hoodlum.”
Next door at the Melba our ancient friend
“The Face at the Window” is having a
resurrection.
Adelaide shows are again hit by the
absence of all evening trams; and suburban
pictures get increased support. Said pic
tures find that the Australian adventures
of Ross Smith and party get more applause
than all the imported sentimentalities of
“CINDERELLA” AT SYDNEY GRAND
OPERA HOUSE.
Baron Deride (Horace Mann) and one of
the Uyly Sinters (Daisy Meritt).
the U.S.A.; and Norman Ross in the water
is another attractive film. Harry Borra-
dale’s open-air Costume Co. is having ideal
nights at Austral Gardens. The Majestic
has a strong bill, in which Parson Frank
Gorman is merely an item. Music ana
athletics are both good—the turn of Walsh,
who “dances” rhythmically on raised boards
while standing on his hands or the back of
his neck, is even better.
“The Bird” : One hears great yarns about
the cost of “features” and “specialties” pro-
cured for pantomimes, and that is what
makes me inquisitive about the “Fox and
Pheasant” dance which is now being given
in Melbourne both at Her Majesty’s and the
King’s. Did some London person wickedly
sell this item to two Australian manage-
ments, or did both managements have a
remarkable simultaneous inspiration which
led them to invent and arrange the same
dance, or did one management unselfishly
present a plan of the dance to the other, or
—what? It is true that the pheasant known
as Elsie Parkes is brown and the Maggie
Dickinson pheasant is white; also Maggie
has a longer tail than Elsie, and Elsie
induces Mother Hubbard’s dog to save her
from-the cru-el fox; but despite slight vari-
ations in the trimming the two dances are
undoubtedly one dance. This one dance
appears to be an adaptation of “The Dying
Swan” (given in the Genee season by Halina
Schmolz) combined with “The Cat and the
Canary” (remembered as a Jack Ilooker-
Madge Elliott item). But who did the
adapting? Who saw it first?
“E.T.” : As with successful plays so with
successful songs—the one you take the least
trouble over may become “the rage.” Such was
the case with Charles Coborn’s “Two Lovely
Black Eyes” (B. 12/2/20). Coborn for
some years had been trying his darnedest to
convince the London public that he was a
cut above the ordinary as a comic vocalist;
but his screw remained in the vicinity of £7
a week. Then an American ditty came to
his rescue —the usual tripey lyric wedded to
a catchy melody. Coborn dotted down a
parody of the words, and, the music not
being copyright, was tempted to try it.
though with no great faith in its possibili-
ties. The first verse and chorus certainly
wouldn’t appear epoch-making;—
St roll ina; one day down Bethnal Green,
This say youth you might have seen,
Tomkins and I, with his girl between,
When oh, what a surprise!
T praised the Conservatives frank and free,
Tomkins got angry quite fperdiiee,
All in a moment he handed to me
Two love’y black eyes.
Two lovely black eyes—
Oh, what a surprise!
Only for telling a man he was wrong —
Two lovely black eyes!
That d ! d the trick! The audience yelled its
head off at “Oh, what a surprise!” and
encored the “author” and singer over and
over again. Coborn’s salary went up 300
per cent, within the next fortnight. Such
is fame!


The Value of Appearance
If unable to call, write Desk R.
Your instructions will receive
prompt and careful attention.
is fully appreciated by the man
of to-day. In buying his cloth-
ing he is chiefly concerned with
three matters —Appearance,
Moderate Price and Quality.
These requirements, he finds,
are well-balanced in a Murdoch
ready-to-wear suit. Care in
making and fitting and quality
in materials make these suits
equal to the requirements of
appearance—their prices make
the most limited "suit-appropri-
ation” equal to them.
Ready-to-wear Sac Suits, Aus-
tralian Tweeds in shades of
Grey and Brown, in small
check designs. Coats have
seam back, no vent, out and in
breast pockets, two buttons,
smart cut-away fronts, roll
lapel. Trousers, side and hip
pockets and turn-up bottoms.
70/-
Murdoch’s 3-guinea Sport Suits,
Australian Woollen Tweeds,
medium Grey and Brown check
designs. Coats have four patch
pockets, four small pleats
gathered into half-belted back,
three-button fronts, no vents.
A suit for business or pleasure.
637-
Smart Dressy, striped worsted-
finished Trousers in good dark
patterns, side or cross and hip
pockets, plain bottoms.
14/9
Murdoch’s
in Park
St. Ltd.,
Sydney
“Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys.**
31
*
'/ O/i I
THE Firm has received from Paris a selection of Real
Ivory and Tortoiseshell Mounted Handbags. They are
of a rich quality not previously seen in Australia, and
may be had in finest leather, silk and hand-made bead designs.
©Elm. Srummonb & Co
344-346 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
10=INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
FROM
41-
EACH
BRITISH-MADE
f
ICMNCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
FROM
41-
EACH.
COLUMBIA Dance Records
Played in Stricft Dance Time
12-inch Double=sided, 6/- each.
f Hong-Kong, Jazz Onestep London Dance Orchesti a
733 ! Victory Jazz, introducing “(Hive Me the Moonlight/’
[ “Picture I Want to See” from “Hullo, America!” London Dance Orchestra
I Maxina, Round Dance London Dance Orchestra
*<>4 I Sirens Jazz London Dance Orchestra
( Destiny Waltz (Baynes) Prince’s Band
(In a Monastery Garden (with vocal chorus) .... Court Symphony Orchestra
' High Jinks Waltz Princes san<J5 an< J
b 33 ( So-Long Letty—Foxtrot Princes Land
...... < Sympathy Waltz, from “The Firefly” Prince s Baud
03J ( High Jinks —Selections London Repertoire Orchestra
.... ( Je sais que vous etes jolie—Foxtrot Prince’s Grand Concert Band
oil ( My Old Kentucky Home—Foxtrot Prince’s Grand Concert Band
...(.(Underneath the Stars —Foxtrot Prince’s Grand Concert Land
1,18 (Down Home in Tennessee—Onestep Prince’s Grand Concert Band
( On the Shore at Le-Lei-wi —Onestep Prince’s Grand Concert Band
l Personality—Onestep Prince’s Grand Concert Band
...... i The Ladder of Roses—Onestep Prince’s Grand Concert Band
j oh, Joe, With Your Fiddle and Your Bow—Onestep.Prince sGrand Concert Band
S Down Where the Swanee River Flows—Foxtrot Prince's Grand Concert Band
001 ) Mississippi Days—Onestep Prince’s Grand Concert Band
1 Every Little While—Foxtrot Prince’s Grand Concert Band
694 ( Hawaiian Butterfly—Foxtrot Prince’s Grand Concert Band
4 . tta ( For Me and My Gal-Foxtrot Princes Grand Concert Band
088 l Here Comes Tootsie—Onestep Prince’s Grand Concert Band
i Pigeon Walk—Foxtrot Princess Grand Concert Band
036 ( Meadowbank—Foxtrot Prince s Grand Concert Band
ißy Heck Foxtrot .. .. Prince’s Grand Concert Band
537 (Good-bye, Girls, I’m Through—Onestep Prince’s Grand Concert Band
..„ ( Walkin’ the Dog—Foxtrot Prince’s Grand Concert Band
648 (Oh, How She Could Yacki Hack!?—Foxtrot .... Prince’s Grand Concert Band
„„„( Hello! My Dearie—Onestep Grand Concert Band
708 ( My Hawaiian Sunshine—Foxtrot Prince’s Grand Concert Band
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS
SYDNEY N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Kawson Place.
MEEIiOURNE. VIC., and TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Pty.,
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd.. Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH. W.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur 11. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WFLLINGTON. N.Z. —Bannat.vne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. —Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 243 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
• :
;
u
IF you could spend a day at one of the great Maxwell shops
you would understand why it is possible to build so much
power, speed, reliability, endurance, economy and so much
comfort and beauty in the low-priced Maxwell Motor Car.
Maxwell parts, for example, are “ground to size the most
expensive operation in modern machine work—not hand fitted to
needlessly add to the price of your car.
There is but one motto in the mind of every Maxwell
employee—to build the Maxwell Motor Car with precision and
care, in the true mechanical sense.
300,000 Maxwell owners the world over testify that the
original Maxwell simple motor design, still adhered to, is right.
MAXWELL MOTOR CO., Inc.
OF DETROIT, MICH.
John D. Williams & Company,
Export Distributors.
2 Rector Street, New York.
Cable Address “ Liandum—New York.'’
More miles per gallon.
More miles on tyres.
Messrs. Clutterbuck Bros. Ltd
26-38 City Road, Sydney.


Cocoanut Oil Makes
an Elegant Hair Wash.
Girls and women who wish to keep their
hair in nice condition should be most cautious
in the soap they wash it: with. Most soaps
and ready-mixed shampoos contain excessive
quantities of alkali. This dries the scalp,
makes the hair brittle and is very injurious.
Just ordinary colinated cocoanut oil (a pure,
saponified but quite greaseless liquid) is
far better than the most costly soap you
could possibly use for a shampoo, for this
cannot possibly hurt your hair.
Merely wet your hair with water and rub
it on. ' A couple of teaspoonfuls make a
perfect flood of rich, thick, creamy lather, and
cleanses both hair and scalp thoroughly. The
lather rinses out easily, and takes with it
every trace of dust. dirt, dandruff or excessive
oiliness. The hair dries quickly and evenly,
and comes out fine and silky, bright, glossy
and fluffv, appearing to be heavier than it is.
And best of all. this colinated cocoanut oil
leaves the hair as easy to dress again as
though von hadn’t washed it at all. You can
get colinated cocoanut oil at most any
chemist, but be sure it’s “colinated.” which is
not expensive—a few ounces lasting a long,
long time.
Instantly! Corn Pains Vanish !
Corns Loosen! Lift Right Off!
No Hurts! Few Drops Loosen Corns and Callouses so
They Brush OT—Never Let Corns Pain
Twhe—No Joke!
BS'M
For a few pence you may obtain
a little phial of the wizard inven-
tion, Frozol-Ice, recently dis-
covered by an eminent chemist.
Merely inquire of any chemist
for a tiny bottle of
Frozol-Ice. Put a few
drops on to a sensitive,
throbbing corn or callous,
and like a flash all soreness
goes away, and soon you find
'(the corn or callous so loose rnat
you can lift it right out with the
fingers.
Just fancy! Not one trace of pain in apply-
ing Frozol-Ice, or afterwards. Not the slight-
est inflammation of surrounding healthy flesh.
Corns between the toes, hard corns, soft
corns, also toughened callouses on the bottom
of the feet wither up and fall off without
hurting one wee bit. Frozol-Ice is a scientific
substance manufactured from ether, and the
genuine is always sold in these little bottles,
inside a round, green carton.
. Refuse false imitations with similar names.
MAGNESIA BATHS FOR INDIGESTION.
. Onl.v those in constant touch with sufferers from
indigestion and dyspepsia can fully realise the harm
done by the improper use of artificial digestants or
dings like pepsin or soda pills and tablets in the
treatment of stomach trouble,” declares a well-known
physician.
The forcing of food from the stomach into the
intestines with artificial remedies in such a case is
almost criminal folly, since serious intestinal indiges-
tion may very easily follow. Instead, the stomach
should be given a magnesia bath to clean out the
acids, sweeten the food contents, soothe and allay
inflammation and irritation of the stomach walls, and
thus permit the normal healthy digestion of the food.
You can give your acid-inflamed stomach no finer
treatment than a magnesia bath. It is simple, easy
and pleasant to take, cannot injure the stomach and
is not at all expensive. Just get a small bottle of
Salix Magnesia (powder) from your chemist, put a
teaspoonful of the powder in a glass of water and
drink it at every meal for a few davs, and your
stomach will act and feel fine. It must be understood
that I do not advise the use of such forms of mag-
nesia as citrates, acetates, sulphates, milks or lump
magnesia. One of these might do more harm than
good. I belie’ e that nothing but pu-e Salix Magnesia
should be used to neutralise an acid stomach. This
form is not difficult to o'tain. The best chemists
nave it, and iri the Salix powder or compressed tablets
form it will instantly neutralise stomach acidity and
insure painless, natural digestion for even chronic
sufferers from stomach trouble.
POVERTY
POINT
MOËT &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAI
CHAMPAGNE
[?]
“Gee”: Talk about glugs! I was up at
C. J. Dennis’s mountain castle* and while
there “Den” put on his latest record for me.
It was American; and a Yankee voice
announced “ ‘The Singing Soldiers,’ by C. J.
LEWIS PARKS, of
the “Green Room
Magazine."
Dennis.” I listened
to a recitation
of Dennis’s verse,
sub-edited, altered
a n d rearranged!,
about the wonder-
ful American
singing soldiers !
O u r American
friends had collar-
ed the whole thing
from “Ginger
Mick,” cutting out
a 1 1 Australian
references, and
making them
American instead,
without either per-
mission or thank
you. “Den” hand-
ed me the record.
“ ‘The Singing
Soldiers,’ by C. J.
Dennis,” stared at
me in letters of
gold. I do not
mind them having
won the war. and
I’ll say nothing
about the steal of
Dennis’s poem (the
poet knows how to
look after himself),
and I will not make
remarks about the
unasked-for use of
the poet’s name.
But I will say it is
low down to steal Billjim’s glory for U.S.A.
records. The shade of Ginger Mick must
lie looking for stoush.
“Plux Tax”: There were two amusement
promoters after the N.S.W. Girls’ High
School site in Castlerea°h-street. Sydney. The
Tnihs. gave up at £123,000; the other show-
bidder stopped earlier. He had represented
a syndicate which proposed to build a mam-
moth picture-house. The Taits badly need
a home. At present they share Melbourne
King’s with Bert Bailey and Jules Grant
on tbe understanding that B. and G. go into
the Sydney Palace now and then. They
can’t get into Maoriland unless Williamson
and Fullers say the word, and not long ago
they seriously considered the proposition of
sending first-class drama touring Maoriland
in a first-class tent. Mclntosh is another
ambitious manager who is rinding it diffi-
cult _to get suitable homes for his wares,
particularly “Chu Chin Chow,” which needs
a theatx-e twice as large as his Melbourne
and Sydney houses. Count Filippini’s opera
movement may also languish for want of
lodgings, especially as Williamson has an
opposition show.
“Peter’’: Talking of George Rignold, I
recall this one. He had an assumed or
genuine bad memory for faces, and when
introduced to a voluble little man in a
Sydney bar he wasn’t nonplussed to learn
that they had met the clay before. He was
even more suave when his new acquaintance
reminded him that he (Rignold) had cele-
brated the meeting by asking for the loan
of ten shillings. “Ah,” answered Rignold,
‘now I know why I have forgotten the inci-
dent. You must have lent me the money.”
CARNIVAL.
“Hullo, what are you doing here by yourself ?"
“Looking for a husband."
“But, good heavens, you're got one!"
“Yes, that’s the one I’m looking for."
Cosmop.”: George Rignold was always
a notable figure at Sydney Athenaeum Club
when “Toby” Barton and “Hop” were
habitues. I remember him at an annual
banquet reciting Antony’s Oration. He
had dined eloquently and was in rare form.
After a little finessing he got going, edging
dangerously toward the boundary of the little
platform: “But yesterday the w r ord of
Caesar might have stood against the world.
How lies he there”—Crash! George found
the floor. “By G —, and none so poor to
do him reverence,” he thundered angrily as
he heard the roars of laughter. Then he
gathered himself together, started afresh and
spoke the lines with magnificent effect.
There are not many parts on the stage
which a clever girl will admit to be beyond
her; but the line was drawn in a Christmas
performance at the Guildhall School of
Music in London. The lady elocution
students tackled “As You Like It.” They
cheerfully took on the parts of Orlando and
Adam, Touchstone and Jaques; but thev
baulked at Charles the Wrestler, and
imported a man to play it.
Kathlene Maedonell has returned to the
TT.S. and begun a N’Yark season with Aus-
tralian Cyril Iveightley as her leading man.
From Dan Hassett, the old stockwhip
showman:—•
Let me assure “Seymour” (B. 5/2/’2O), who
said that he had lost track of me, that I am alive
and active and in Queensland. “Sevmour” is not
correct in stating that “Saltbush Bill” was my
tutor. As a matter of fact Bill learnt all he knows
about whip-cracking from me. I was champion
whip-cracker of the world for 20 years before I
taught him, and he was beaten at a buckjumping
show in the Melbourne Hippodrome about 12 years
ago (in a competition from which I was barred)
by my two young brothers (14 and 16 years of
age), whom I had initiated into the art.
“Divvy”: Softgoods outbid the show busi-
ness for the Girls’ High School site, opp.
Sydney Tivoli, and Castlereagh-street just
missed getting its sixth theatre/ The Fullers
own one alongside the Tiv., and the value
of their block must have leapt tremendously
with David Jones’s promise to erect a
super-store on their new £124.000 site.
Farther up the street the Fullers lease the
Opera House from T. E. Rofe, who is in-
terested in churches as well as theatres. The
others are the Tivoli, the Royal (now get-
ting ready for a Williamson rebuilding)
and the Playhouse, in which the spiders are
haying a long run. The leases of the Cri-
terion and Her Majesty’s in Pitt-street are
almost sure to eventually go to the retailers,
which will leave all the Sydney theatres
except the Palace, the picture-houses and
minor vaudeville places in Castlereagh-street.
“Norbell”: I am chastened by the rebuke
of “Petramos” (B. 19/2/’2O), and confess
that I, too, have known pirates, calling them-
selves mummers, who souvenired the soap and
towels from Backblocks
pubs. “Take in the wash-
ing, mother, the actors
are coming!” is a gag as
ancient as Quintus Ros-
cius. Old Harry Daniels
told me of a pub he
stayed at “on” Ballarat
with a dramatic co. as
far back as the ’fifties.
The landword button-
holed Harry and asked
him in confidence
whether Mr. Horatio
Howies paid treasury
regularly. Harry
admitted that his chief
was a little remiss. “I
thought he was a rook !”
exclaimed the publican.
“He’s got six of my.best
shirts and a silver tan-
kard in his portmanteau
this very minute !” When
I first started in grease-
paint with Alfred Dam-
pier 25 years ago we
were often refused accom-
modation by suspicious
bungs. And when we did
get in the towel-and-soap
juggling act must often
have been in the land-
lord’s mind. I remember
Charlie Field once ask-
ing for a second egg at
breakfast, when Mr.
XXX got this amazing
non sequitur off his
chest: “Two eggs ye
want, is ut? Don’t I
give ye scinted soap in
yer bedroom V” Any-
how, the Bush sometimes
gets back on the mum-
mer. Streaking through
the N. S. Wales one-night-
stands with Nellie
Stewart, our crowd had
to do its own washing every Sunday, and
at one town some burglarious snow-dropper
pinched two clothes-lines full of nice clean
nighties and undies. You ought to have
heard the ladies of King Charles’s court!
“O’Rourke”: Gerald Griffin, an Irish
actor of the Allen Doone type, who played
a season with George Marlowe,' has bought
the Australian rights in the Parnell play,
“The Lost Leader,” which he proposes to
stage here this year. Another Yank looking
this Avay is Julian Eltinge, whose female
impersonations brought him such notoriety
that a New York theatre was named after
him. Eltinge has started on a world tour
with Japan as the kicking-off spot.
“Ike Pagliacci”: The censor is to get a
real chance at last. Beaumont Smith
writes me that a Los Angeles co. has begun
filming the Bible from cover to cover.
“Roll Ticket” ; The 21 p.c. rise in wages
paid, to the organised stage employees wasn’t
participated in by the managerial staffs,
and the managers will possibly find that the
oversight will decide front-of-the-house men,
treasurers and the like to do a little organ-
ising on their own account. Picture-house
managers are notorously underpaid consider-
ing the hours they work, and I have in mind
one metropolitan treasurer who works
nearly 70 hours a week, Saturdays and holi-
days included, for £3. He is the chap who
has to fight the unions at the instigation
of the boss, and he is beginning to see from
his own paysheets that he’d do better shift-
ing scenery or taking the tickets. The
mechanists and property men are higher on
the salary-list than many managers who
give them instructions, despite the fact that
the 21 p.c. increase has been an Irishman’s
r se for many of the latter, for the reason
that those who were getting above the
award to keep them from accepting offers
elsewhere have been moved back to the legal
minimum plus 21 p.c.
“Front Row”: Some Christmas compari-
sons. London: Bruce Drysdale (Aussie)
top of the Coliseum bill. New York: Leon
Errol (Aussie) and Jim Watts (Aussie)
starring at the Palace and in the Greenwich
Village Follies. Johannesburg: Nellie
Fallon (Aussie), principal girl in panto-
mime. _ Melbourne: Imported boy, girl and
dame in “The Sleeping Beauty.”
“THE LITTLE
DAMOZEL,”
AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Raymond
Lawrence as
Abraham.
“I. Jinks”; Australian contracts with
artists contain no less than 26 clauses which
the Actors’ Federation has decided to kick
against. One of these calls on the vaude-
ville artist to not only present his specialty
but also play in minstrel first-part, in revue,
drama or pantomime, act for the movies
and train chorus or ballet, all at the one
salary. The Federation has warned brother-
artists in the U.S.A. that a contract made
in that country is null and void when it
gets to Australia. “This fact,” the Federa-
tion correspondent wrote to America,
“could be used if so desired, and 12,000
miles is a hell of a swim.” But one of the
toughest things the Australian actor has to
contend against is not in his contract. It
is the mutual understanding between man-
agers that they won’t engage a man the
other fellow happens to want. The actor
finishing with one firm applies to another
for engagement. The second firm rings
up the first to ask if it requires the artist.
"We’ll need him in a month,” is the reply,
and that’s the end of it.
“5.0.5.”: Matrimonial and bridal cham-
ber plays have amalgamated. Ben Fuller
introduces the dramatic partnership shortly
as “The Bedroom Wedding.”
“Biobox” : “The Kelly Gang” will be fol-
lowed on the screen by Boldrewood’s “Rob-
bery Under Arms,” which will be pictured
under the direction of Alfred Rolfe, Dam-
pier’s son-in-law. Warragul will be played
by Gilbert Emery, the Ginger Mick of the
Dennis films.
. “Connoisseur”: Hugh D. McTivoli’s pub-
licity people gave the impression that the
“six most beautiful, girls” were quite
new to the stage, having been sought out at
great trouble from among the damsels who
were entirely unacquainted with grease-
paint and footFghts. Yet now that they have
arrived in. Melbourne, 'where I have eagerly
awaited them, I find that two at least are
old friends—l mean young friends —of play-
goers who have followed the musical shows
of other managements. Perhaps a William-
son or Tait appearance is regarded by Hugh
I). as merely a “try-out” for a Tiv. engage-
ment.
B.”: “Ike Pagliacci” states (B.
1!)/2/20) that John Lawson, whom the
I ullers have engaged, is a Jewish actor,
meaning, I presume, that Lawson was born
a Jew. He wasn't, and even the fact that
many of the music-hall profession believe it
to be so doesn’t make it so.
“Glen H.”: Since before Christmas Mel-
bourne has been without a spoken drama
at any of its leading theatres. It is at pre-
sent offered the choice of pantomime at Her
Majesty’s and the King’s, musical comedy
af the Royal and revue at the Tivoli, and
this has been its diet for two months. It
is wrong to say that the village is musically
starved, but it is certainly suffering from
malnutrition.
“J.F.IL.” (London) : Australia seems to
grow \ onuses as a regular crop. It has so
far sent us three. First came Pansy Mon-
tague, whose “living-statue” show was a big
draw at the London Pav., and had the great
lift ot being barred and banned by the Man-
chester authorities. Later came Annette
Ive Merman performing aquatic evolutions
oi thinnest of coverings. And now Ivy
■lulling, the outstanding attraction in the
new musical comedy at the Oxford, is billed
as lhe Modern Venus, whose figure artists
declare perfect.”
THE MORALS OF THE MOVIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Young man! Beware of the painted beauty of
the stage!
“What do you know of that which lies behind
the pretty doll-like faces of the painted ladies of
the chorus ?
“What do .you know of the girlie who eats your
chocolate, drinks your wine, calls you ‘piker’
when you suggest a street car, presses warm, red
lips to yours? What lies behind? Do you know?
Do you want to?
“He didn’t regard his danger, so he shut his eyes
—and kissed her dainty, tantalising ankle.”
— Spa-sms from an artless picture-show advt.
O good young man, pray ponder and think twice!
Pause, and go slow!
The stage is but a sink of sordid vice,
Where painted liouris good young men entice
To do their splosh, by every sly device
That girlies know!
Oh, Shun the stage, that evil, vicious place
Where sirens swarm!
They’ll lure you to destruction and disgrace
By every subtle charm of form and face,
And goo-goo eye, and cuddlesome embrace,
And red lips warm.
Young man, beware! These fleshly joys eschew!
What do you know?
The very term of “piker’s” strange to you!
Some painted beauty you may madly woo,
And buy her chocs., or blindly kiss her shoe
Or dimpled toe.
Evade the bold, voluptuous beauty girl,
And all her clan!
Spurn the delight of lithesome limbs awhirl;
Shun shapely curve, and pert peroxide curl;
Or round her finger she will surely twirl
A good young man!
But come and see our moral photoplay,
O virtuous youth!
With us you can, vicariously, go gay.
A bob (plus tax) is all you’ve got to pay.
For that small sum we’ll show you, night or day,
The (censored) truth!
K.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


K
*
istiSl
.
.
■H
-
i 19
2\f? 1 R
-,. *1 j
■s& : “lO.t : 5
•j-
-lair
rir
»SII
■:.
& -„ §
■
frtaaaaMßß^g
S&&
n
■
it
Sfcs
R ■
Kg
«
.V
■
£k
,
.; jg
H
■
"-■'
■
m
m ;
ajiißiaspaSß ■■
frirnnll' H"
| i
■
.jjH
M
1
I I
!
I
m
:
if 1
ƒg
This photograph shows a stack
of over 3,000 G.E. Type 1-14
A.C. WATTHOUR Meters
supplied to the Perth (W. A.)
City Council by our Western
Australian Agents—Messrs.
Charles Atkins 6c Co. (W. A.)
Ltd. More than 7,000 of these
meters have been supplied to
the various Western Australian
Councils.
The TYPE 1-14 WATTHOUR METER is a distinct advance in the design
and manufacture of watthour meters operating on the induction principle.
It is the direct result of a long period of study and experiment to produce a
watthour meter of high initial and sustained accuracy, of simple construction
and pleasing appearance, which can be built in a wide range of capacities.
The need for a meter of low initial cost, and small expense of maintenance
and testing has been kept constantly in mind throughout the entire develop-
ment of this line.
ƒ
Mazda House
Wentworth Avenue
SYDNEY
€>
Cr. of Queen 'D Little Collins Sts
MELBOURNE
AGENTS
ADELAIDE. S.A. —Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd.. 88-90 Currie St
BRISBANE, Q —The Engineering Supply Co of Australia Ltd.
(E.S.C.A ), Corner Edward and Charlotte Sts.
NEW ZEALAND—-The National Electrical & Engineering CorLtd.,
TASMANIA—OIiver 6c Oliver. HOBART and LAUNCESTON
PERTH. W A.—Charles Atkins 6 t Co. (W.A.) Ltd., "Mazda House,'*
894 Hay Street
AUCKLAND. CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN, WELLINGTON-


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & eO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
-ole Agents: RESCHS. LlfllTED. Redfern. Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROUNff ?
g
LEWIS & WhITTY MAKERS
~—
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND
f
BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA—CoIIins House, Collins Street, Melbourne •
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, Sydney -
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street. Brisbane
Phone Central 1995
Phone City 2677
Phone 2382
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
SPORYING
NEEDS
Although Gold Tie, at time of writing, is
distinctly first favorite for the Newmarket, and
a number of bronzed punters from the North pro-
test that this son of Malster is home and dried,
racing at Caulfield may be said to have left the
Newmarket a very confused question. If, for
instance, the Oakieigh Plate form be taken quite
seriously, a’a between the Queensland champions
Molly’s * Robe and Gold Tie, tfiere doesn’t seem to
be much to choose between the mare and the horse,
even when the latter is allowed to have made the
more improvement—and why should he ? —within
the past fortnight. Also there is the fact that
Eudoxus and Chrysolaus will meet the Queensland
pair on better terms than they did in the Oakieigh
and Futurity, and so, what with the difference
between the bended Caulfield course and the Fleming-
ton “straight six” to be considered, not to mention
the inglorious uncertainty of the blessed Turf, it
looks as though the Newmarket struggle cannot be
a certainty for any particular one of the recent per-
formers. There have been years when it was almost
as good as a certainty for one, provided that the
one didn’t get left at the post, but this year the
race is open enough to disputation. Why, Lisna-
vane and Eusebius have undeniable chances on their
running in the Hawksburn Handicap last Saturday,
which was considerably at variance with how they
shaped seven days earlier. Lisnavane, carrying a
trifle more than her Newmarket weight, ran the six
furlongs at Caulfield in 1.13], whilst Eusebius,
after being at the tail-end of the field, finished only-
half a length away. Both of these speedy- nags are
in-and-out performers, but next Saturday may be
one of their “in” days, and in the case of the filly
the advantage of youth must be considered She is
maturing her speed all the time. Indeed, Lisnavane
looks as well worth backing for a place as the most
fancied of the older animals. This is said without
the least disrespect to Sydney Damsel, lieady-Aye-
Ready, Gambler’s Gold, etcetera. And Etcetera was
ever a dangerous horse in a numerous field.
In venturing a preference for Chrysolaus for the
Newmarket, the writer admits that some apology
is called for. The imported horse didn’t run bril-
liantly in the Futurity Stakes, nor did he finish
as straight as a yard of pump-water. He was
hanging out before reaching the distance, and from
first to last he never really' threatened to wear
Gold Tie down. All the same, Chrysolaus ran most
respectably. Maybe that’s the habit of the much-
talked-of English horse—to run respectably and no
more. On the other hand it can be said that each
of his runs thus far has been a slight improvement
on his previous show, and he will have a nice
weight in the Flemington event, and his tendency
to “hang out” at Caulfield is not bound to be
repeated on the straight course. Chrysolaus did
some pretty good work in England on a straight
course at Newmarket, and the chances are that he
will find the weather more to his liking next Satur-
day' than it was when he finished a close fourth for
the Futurity. The writer intends to lose 20 of the
best (shillings) on Chrysolaus for the big sprint.
The Gold Tie coup for the valuable Futurity Stakes
seemed to have been cleverly conceived, but doubt-
less it was due to circumstances over which the gee
had sole control. In the 5-J furlongs Oakieigh Plate
this eager beginner appeared to tire at the finish;
bonce the assumption that 7 furlongs only a week
later would be a bit too far for him. But on the
first occasion Molly’s Robe ran neck-and-neck with
Gold Tie, and practically burst him up, whereas in
the longer race he had an easv time for nearlv
five furlongs after taking the lead, and nothing
stretched his neck until he was nearly home. Sir
Ibex, who finished third, might have won had
his rush been made a trifle earlier. The failure of
Wedge was only a repetition of the big pot s pre-
vious boil-over. May be Cairns is not the best of
jockeys for a short-distance race. More likely that
Wedge is no longer one of the very best of horses.
The Australian Cup nowadays has little early
interest apart from its connection with the double.
At time of writing the top weight among acceptors
for the tiring journey is Chrome, and that trusty
steed is not unlikely to drop out of training before
the day. His least trusty leg is a cause of grave
anxiety to his friends. Apart from Chrome, whose
B.d would not anchor him in a 2-]-mile race,
the most likely ones are Chrysolaus (if his condi-
tion permits of his being started for the Cup),
Carriole, Defence, Ard-na-ree, Kilflinn, Daarewin,
Two Blues, Tenterfield and Menin. Menin did win
a race last Saturday. The veteran Hiekenbotharn
has got his troublesome charge tit at the right time,
and only his tenderfoot trouble stands now between
him and a real good go for the Australian Cup.
Last year, when less lit, lie ran third to New Tip-
perary and Earlborn for this race. It wasn’t a
bright and shining performance, but no horse, im-
ported or otherwise, needs wondrous stamina and
a tremendous turn of speed to win an Australian
Cup. Menin has enough of both qualifications to
do the trick if he can be brought fit and ready to
the barrier. Perhaps a heavy fall of rain before
the day would be a blessed thing for his feet, but
the elements mustn’t be expected to strain a point
in Menin’s favor. And let the going be hard or
soft, there will be several horses backed heavily
for next Tuesday’s event. Where a moderately good
old animal, such as Carriole, has to give a pound
or two to some others of equally reasonable preten-
sions (such as Ard-na-ree), and is actually boosted
into the position of first favorite, there must be
jilenty of room for the victory of anything, includ-
ing rank outsiders. But this writer is not looking
for a rank outsider. He prefers Menin, on the
•strength of a possibly-unfounded old belief that the
sturdy grey would /win an important handicap some
day. Next Tuesday is the writer’s last day for main-
taining the old belief.
A good horseman weighed out for the
Final Handicap last week' when Dick Walker died
from injuries caused by a fall at Gosford (N.S.W.).
Richard was a son of a Kensington trainer and
brother of the better-known L.A. Increasing pound-
age limited his rides on metropolitan courses during
the last year or two, but at country meetings he
was a busy and successful performer. Last season
he rode Fortrait in nearly all his races.
* * * *
“Peter”: I love tennis, but I get very tired
of the elaborate “sportsmanship” of its leading
players. Possibly it is permissible to express loud
admiration when an opponent makes a good shot,
but the profuse apologies to partners for errors in
doubles seem sheer affectation when you know that
behind the offender’s wail of “Sorry!” there is a
swear that sounds to
his secret soul like
“ the thing!” To
ine it also seems ridicu-
lous to insist on for-
feiting a point when
your enemy has lost
one by some “acci-
dent.” This habit was
carried to absurd
lengths in Melbourne
the other day when
Lowe slipped and
missed the ball, with
the result that his
opponent, Hawkes, also
pretended to tumble
and duly muddled an
easy return amid the
unmerited applause of
the Ve r y Naicest
People. I don’t know
what would have hap-
pened if Lowe had
dropped dead at the
next moment. Prob-
ably Hawkes would
have called for strych-
nine so that; ' he
shouldn’t have an un-
fair advantage.
STAN STEVENS.
skipper of
AWAN III.. ubich
won the Northcote
Cup in Melbourne.
An Indian buyer with a deep pocket went
looking for the price-ticket on Poitrel the other
day. He found instead a not-for-sale notice. The
little chestnut is jogging along nicely, getting ready-
for the Autumn argument with Artilleryman at
w.f.a. If his poor feet keep firm the three-year-old
will have to hurry away right from the start.
Jimmy Pike, who made a picturesque
return to the saddle by driving Aries home in A..1.C.
Challenge Stakes last month, monopolised the lime-
light at Rosehill on Saturday and earned much cash
and applause. There were six races; James rode
three winners, dead-heated for first in a fourth and
was second in a fifth. His main trouble nowadays
is the accumulation of flesh. It keeps him among
the topweights; but over short courses he is easily
one of the three best horsemen riding in the Com-
monwealth.
After, winning the Challenge Stakes, Aries had a
spin at two or three suburban meetings, incidentally
capsizing punters into the soup. On Saturday they
got it all back at Rosehill. Carrying 9st. 21b., her
ladyship ran in half a dozen lengths . ahead of a
fairly smart field. Later on the same proprietary
took the Nursery Handicap with Galtee Maid, a
Linacre filly that had already won on the Rosehill
course. With reasonable luck the filly seems likely
to be heard from again.
Faith in a moke is sometimes as profound as in a
joss. For some reason Sydney punters’ faith in The
Destroyer is of this variety. Saturday after Satur-
day he is pulled out at suburban meetings, is backed
down to a short price and runs like a serial story.
At Rosehill he started second favorite in a field of
13 over a mile. He led for seven furlongs and then
blew up like a paper bag. He must have cost the
public as much as 17 Royal Commissions.
Two divs. out of the ordinary, under the three-
dividend system, were handed out at the XOs. machine
during the afternoon —£26 Bs. on Prudent Field in
the Maiden and £lO 9s. 6d. on Cragrose in the
Granville Stakes. Prudent Field was a stranger, but
Cragrose, a Malster mare, was an exceptionally smart
two-year-old, and has lately been showing an incli-
nation to hop in front of good company.
Carbine’s skeleton, which has arrived, is
to be given an alcove to itself in the National
Museum in Melbourne. Doubtless the spot will be
a shrine for amateur punters, as the wishing
wells of old were for lovesick maidens. It is
nearly 25 years since the famous Melbourne Cup
winner was exported. The late Jack Murray, who
had then no idea of becoming Premier, fooled the
Legislative Assembly for five minutes when speak-
ing on tile Address-in-Reply by remonstrating with
the first Turner Government for not making a
fitting demonstration at the departure of one who
had endeared himself to the people during his six
years’ residence among them. Fellow-members
thought that Lord Hopetoun was being referred
to. Turner, Isaacs and Peacock were asking them-
selves what had been left undone in the Governor’s
send-off arrangements, when Murray explained that
he alluded, “of course,” to the incomparable,
unvanquished Carbine. Much relieved Ministers
joined in the smile Jack’s leg-pulling provoked.
# * * *
J. Y. Henry, newly-appointed judge to
the Williamstown (Vie,) R. C., picked up his job
while travelling on the Inky Way. His life-work
is the compilation of “J. J. Miller’s Sporting
Annual,” but he has had a long experience as well
in sporting journalism.
* * * *
Defence is the last horse racing in Aus-
tralia who was sired by Carbine. Bred in England
by the Duke of Portland in 1910, he was brought
to Victoria by the Baillieus two years later.
* * *' •
Orcus is making a name for himself as
a sire, even if he was a failure on the turf. His
latest winner, Orcadian, took the February Handi-
cap at the Q.T.C. meeting. Mariston, by the same
horse and a recent winner, was an also-ran.
The ex-Sydney mare Sobrina is kept hard at
it in .Bananaland with varying success. She was
saddled up for the February Handicap (11m.), but
found the distance too much. On her second appear-
ance, in the Final Handicap (lm.), she just headed
a classy field comprising For My Ladv, Darginnie
and Broadaere in the good time of lmin. 40sec.
* *• * *
The most popular quadruped in Maoriland
to-day, not excepting Gloaming, is Amythas, a three-
year-old gelding by Demosthenes-Gold Treasure. He
was unlucky to lose the Wellington Cup, but later
won the Racing Club Handicap and the other day the
Dunedin Cup under the crushing burden of 9st.
lib. He was not produced in the Derbies, but is
stated to be easily the best three-year-old of the
season.
The war between Albert Lloyd and George
Cook over the heavyweight championship of the Com-
monwealth lasted all the e\ening at Sydney. Stadium
on Saturday. After 20 rounds an armistice was
declared, and, the referee being unable to make
up his mind about the merits of the two, a meet-
ing of plenipotentiaries was arranged to promote
a further breach of the peace at the earliest oppor-
tunity. The conflict was quite as exciting as a
misunderstanding about a bag of peanuts. Neither
of the men is a champion or anything like one. Both
of them will be easy meat for the first big resolute
puncher who happens along to take the championship
place that has been a long time vacant. Cook was
the more eager to mix it on Saturday, but Lloyd
easily boxed him off.
* * * *
At Fletcher’s dock, Port Adelaide (which
is entirely lacking at present in convenience or com-
fort for spectators, but gives good swimming), Ross
won the Australian 3-mile championship in 17min.
29 l-ssec. —said to be world’s record. Beaurepaire,
not in good health, was only five yards away. He
did not start in the hundred, at the City Baths, and
the American strolled home in 57 l-sth. For the
quarter he took smin. 26sec., beating the Victorian
by 10 yards.
The tennis form in South A us. was
exactly as expected. In singles R. V. Thomas and
Roy Taylor each played a pretty and audacious net
game, beaten only by the British driving from the
i ase-line. In doubles, Ashley Campbell, formerly of
Melbourne, took a hand. Any Adelaide pair could give
any English pair a great game for about two sets ;
then the superior condition of the visitors told. Also
the local service looked a poor thing by comparison.
England won all six rubbers; but the play was
generally interesting—and the doubles were exciting
throughout.
* * # #
The inter-TJniversity cricket at Adelaide
was a surprise. The S.A. game is provedly weaker
than the Victorian just now. Moreover, Adelaide
’Varsity is nowhere in particular on the local pre-
miership list; whereas Melbourne Uni. stands pretty
high. Yet the Adelaide students scored 485 in their
only knock, and won easily by an innings. They
look like making a big batting side. C. E. Pellew,
of the A.1.F., has come back, and his young brother
L.V. is equally good. Don Steele, Jose and the
vastly improving G. M. Hone make a strong back-
bone for any team.
* * * •
Tlie end of the ninth round of Sydney
grade cricket sees Wests still well in the lead, with
Uni. and Norths edging up. The most sporting game
yet played in the series was between Norths and
Sydney. The men from over the harbor had a lead
of 14 runs on the first innings; Sydney then gave
them 109 to get, with less than an hour to play, for
an outright win. In a most exciting finish, in which
batsmen sacrificed themselves to get runs, Norths
just got there. Petersham had the surprise of its
life when, after declaring with seven for 402, it
was walloped by Balmain. It has plenty of bats-
men, but no bowlers. For Balmain McCoy and the
brothers Rateliffe, from whom hundreds were ex-
pected. made only nine amongst them. But the
consistent Brown and Storey each ran into three
figures. Paddington missed Noble when it met Middle
Harbor. It won by 40 runs on the first innings, but
with Noble at work might have scored an outright win.
Kortlang and Waddy batted aggressively for M.H.,
but five of their cobhers’ wickets fell for 39: Nor-
man played nice cricket for the winners. Glebe,
easily last in the competition, made a good fight
against Western Suburbs, the leaders, going down
by only 25 runs. The tail was painfully in evidence
F. W. Docker, with plenty of pace, got half Glebe’s
wickets cheaply. ’Varsity knocked out Gordon bv
220 runs on the first innings. After declaring at
eight for 363, every batsman helping, Uni. sent
the suburbanites in. The latter, by vastly-improved
play, were still in possession when stumps were
drawn, half the team out for 253. The consistent
Watts was run out for a blob. Martin relished the
Uni. bowling. Waverley defeated Central Cumber-
land by 252 runs on the first innings, and might
easily have had a straight-out win if it had sent
C.C. to follow on. Still, it was playing at home
and its batting gave the girls a treat.
* * * «
“Schedule 4”: Stated in Sporting Notes
(B. 29/l/’2O) that the application of the Vic. AVork-
men’s Compensation Act (1915) to jockeys is ‘‘doubt-
ful.” The wording of this portion of the Ait is
identical with that of the N. S. AVales Workmen’s
Compensation Act, and both Statutes derive from the
English Workmen’s Compensation Act (1906).
Decisions under the latter can, therefore, be
regarded as binding upon employers in N. S. Wales
and Victoria. In Gorman v. Gibson (1910) it was
laid down that if a jockey is hired bv a trainer to
ride an owner’s horse, such jockey being under the
control of the trainer, the owner is not the jockey’s
employer. Whether the trainer himself is the
employer and liable to pay compensation depends
upon the terms of the engagement. If the jockey
is merely engaged for the race and paid for the
mount without any agreement as to periodical
engagements in the future, he would be defined as
a casual worker. Here again the Act in all three
venues is similarly worded—the employer is not
liable for an accident to a workman engaged other-
wise than for his trade or business, and whose
employment is of a casual nature. It would, there-
fore, follow that horseowners who do not race as
a business are exempted from liability, and, further,
that trainers in engaging a boy for one race would
be employing him as a casual workman. If, how-
ever, the owner carried on racing as a business and
had a jockey engaged for numbers of races, so that
the latter’s engagement might be regarded as con-
taining some of the elements of permanency, lia-
bility might exist. Of course, even if liability
is admitted, compensation depends upon the degree
of dependency. The Act further exempts from the
meaning of the word “workman” persons whose
remuneration for the 12 months prior to the acci-
dent exceeded £250 for the United Kingdom and
Victoria and £312 for N. S. AVales. Probably few
jockeys, apart from beginners or apprentices, would
come within those limits.
* * * *
Warrant-officer Tom Burrows, world’s
champion club-swinger, recently did a remarkable per-
formance, and incidentally broke all his previous
records in the weary, foolish business. In one hour
he completed 6500 revolutions, which included 525
different combinations.
# * * »
Playing for Mulwala (N.S.W.) against
Dry Forest recently, a batsman named V. Shields
bashed the first five balls of an over for four each,
and wound up with three sky-scraping sixers—3B
off one. awful over!, “Gorstruth!” gasped the captain
to the stricken bowler; “if yer bowlin’ fer th'
field y’d better put ’em in airerplanes.”
* * * *
The feeling that is simmering in Vie.
cricket circles hasn’t been modified by the attitude
of the daily press. It now transpires that the Vic.
selection committee, which was declared to have
struck in the Vic. v. N.S.AV. match in Sydney latelv,
faithfully did its work, and wrote a note of protest
to a Sydney daily which had apparently started the
whole canard for the purpose of enlarging the halo
of AVarvviek Armstrong. The big man, however, lias
not benefited by the agitation, and it is doubtful
if' he could win the unanimous loyalty of the
allegedly devoted 10 whom he recently led" to defeat
in Sydney. Some of the players criticise him for
bad errors of judgment, and far from wanting him
in the leading role, they would prefer him as a
simple though admittedly valuable player. As a
matter of fact, it is unlikely that he will remain a
captain in big cricket after the present season, and
his chances, of commanding Australia against England
at the end of the year are remote.
“M.P.A.”; Since the Polar made such a
frightful mess of the keeper at the Adelaide Zoo,
the chap who looks after the bears in Melbourne has
been telling the press how it is possible to learn
boxing and wrestling from watching a couple of
hears get into holds. I saw what I believe to be
the greatest “go” ever witnessed in Australia. It
was when Batty, a German trainer of animals, who
brought out a big act to AVirths’ circus from Hagen-
back, was breaking in a new group of mixed animals
at AVirths’ Park, and a couple of bears got into
grips. One was a big, brown European chap, the
other an ancient Polar. First they sparred a bit
and then got into holds, embracing with terrible
ferocity, and gripping with both forelegs and teeth.
The pair stood up man-like and waltzed and shifted
like wrestlers, the brown bear eventually cross-
buttocking the white animal and spreading him
fairly and squarely on his back. AVhile the awful
struggle was in progress Batty fought at ’em with
fork and whip, and it was only after the Polar
was pretty well outed that Batty got command of
the big brown and put him away. The Polar
being old and in poor condition fought an unequal
fight and shed his old brittle claws like shavings.
AV'hen the fray was all over Jim Beckett, then a
roundsman on the Age, dropped in, and I told him
the story of the fight and secured for him several
of the claws that the Polar had left behind in the
big performing cage. AVhen Beckett handed in the
story to Stevens, the old sub. turned it down, as
he knew Jim was very partial to wrestling and
circus at any time, and the story smelt too much
like showman’s boost. I have been associated with
the wrestling game for many years, but in all the
bouts I have seen the thrill of two great bears in
fair dinkum holds has never been equalled by all
that men on a mat could bring into play. This
browm bear was always a very tricky animal, and
on one occasion chewed an elephant’s tail while the
ponderous jumbo was drawing the bear cage into
the ring. The old Polar passed out the year
of the fight, at Auckland, just as the show was
leaving, and his carcase was consigned to the salt
sea —a fitting place for the breed. As far as per-
forming wild animals are concerned, I think leopards
have caused as many dreadful injuries to trainers
as any of the “dangerous” animals appearing in
circus and vaudeville shows.
THE SENTIMENTAL PUG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They say me ’eart is stony ’ard,
That me perfeshun’s crool,
And when we belt a feller’s lard
We’re vicious, as a rule;
But down ’ere in me soul 1 know
I ain’t a tiger wild.
1 has me human instincts, so
1 jabs a bloke me love to show,
Fer me own darlin’ child.
It may seem fierce to see a lad
A-gettin’ ’oly ’ell,
But stoushin’ him I feel a glad
And pure emotion swell
Deep in me ’eart because of Kate-
She is me missus dear;
I socks ’em ’ome without no ’ate.
But jist to give me long-haired mate
Fine dresses and good cheer.
A lovely bloo-eyed babe we’ve got,
And when I swing a mit,
Or waller in pertickler ’ot
With me great kidney hit,
It’s all for ’er the thing is done,
To buy ’er pretty toys.
If I’ve broke conks in scores, me son,
It’s all bin for the little one —
I’ve nix agin the boy’s.
So when you see me swing a right
And shift a boxer’s chin
Don’t talk about the ’orrid sight,
Don’t say it is a sin.
A father’s ’eart is runnin’ ’igh
When blood is on me glove;
And when I outs him, don’t deny,
Behind all what I done the guy,
There is a ’usband’s love!
VICTORIA.
DIDO


LEARN TO USE YOUR FISTS!
You never know what moment you
will have occasion to use them, and it
would be a mighty uncomfortable
experience if you got a thrashing.
Your SIZE will not protect you if
you’re untrained —SCIENCE will come
out on top every time. The man who
knows the art of Scientific Boxing
has it “all over” his opponent.
I TEACH
BOXING BY
POST
—teach you how to become a skilled and scientific
boxer. 'My methods are simple, practical and
thorough. You cannot fail to progress rapidly and
quickly, and you will learn all the “hits,” “stops”
and “moves” of the world's most famous boxers.
“SNOWY BAKER K. 0.” BOXING GLOVES (in
Two Grades) 16/6 and 22/6 per set of Four
Gloves. Post Free. Every pair personally selected
and guaranteed.
Write for my interesting booklet, “Scientific Box-
ing in the Home,” which will be mailed FREE to
any address. Just write your name and address
across this advertisement and post it to me with
three stamps to cover postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BARER,
The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,
202 Municipal Buildings, 82a Oxford St. (Cor. Crown St.), SYDNEY.
A
xSSSSiSS
|#Bi§siff
WM
■
mm
m
HEL
01ZIN
Be particular
about the spirit yon use.
Vou’ll GET THE BEST if
you ask for—
mi
Obtainable Everywhere.
fef.SK
V'-Ai
The Secret of Easy Shaving
V
Do you want quick, easy,
pleasant shaves? Do you
want to keep your face
in the pink of condition,
free from pimples, in-
growing hairs or cuts?
Then Set your Razor on
a PERFORATED HONE.
Take your finest blade or your
poorest; give it a few strokes
or hone all day, the result will
be the same—a perfect shave.
The holes PREVENT WIRE
EDGE, and automatically pro-
duce a perfect, keen shaving
edge.
TRY THE PERFORATED HONE
If it doesn't make your razor shave to
your satisfaction, return it to us within
SO days and get your money back.
Sold by all leading Hardware Merchants
at 5/-, or post free 5/0 from
The Perforated Hone Co.,
Dept. 11 123 Sussex Street, Sydney.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING. MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY
Box 229 0.P.0.,
MELBOURNF.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNfcY.
ƒg
Jaw Breakers.
Gyratory
Breakers.
Crushing Rolls
Elevators.
Screens.
Conveyors.
Portable and
Stationary.
Crushing
Plants.
OVER 1000 SUPPLIED.
STONE BREAKERS
ALL SIZES. CAPACITIES, ICWT. TO 100 TONS PER HOUR.
Send for Illustrated Catalog No. 20. MACHINES IN STOCK.
MANUFACTURED BY—
JAQUES BROS. Pty. Ltd.,
Coppin Street, Richmond, MELBOURNE, VIC.
for Indigestion.
<0
The “High Cost of Clothes
f
Need Not Worry
YOU.
You need not worry over having to
pay prices for clothes out of keeping
with your income, since you can,
in actual fact, still obtain GOOD
Clothes to Order at Moderate Cost.
"Lincoln-Stuart”
Tailoring
provides for its Patrons a Complete
Range of Seasonable Textures —all of
CERTIFIED Quality—in Garments
Tailor-made in a manner that permits
of SATISFACTION being uncondi-
tionally GUARANTEED—at prices
to suit any pocket.
Featured in our present Display of
Suitings for Autumn is a Splendid
Selection of
Alt-Wool
Australian
Tweeds.
These Textures in Quality and Design
have nothing to lose by comparison
with materials made abroad, and it is
only by reason of the fact that they
have been made in Australia that we
are able to quote them in Honestly-
made Suits to order at prices from
At these Figures they represent truth-
fully the Best-Suit Investment in Aus-
tralia to-day. Don’t place that new-
suit order till you’ve seen samples of
our ALL-WOOL, AUSTRALIAN-
MADE Materials.
PATTERNS ARE POST FREE.
Lincoln,
Stuart 8 Co. ES,
“ Tailoring Specialists,"
244-54 Flinders St, Melbourne.


pecial Services lor TVI
en
HTHE Modern Store, as exemplified by Farmer’s, embodies not only the most
up-to-date shopping conveniences, but special services f-t business and pro-
fessional men. These services are under the care of experts, and in ev ry
necessary d.tail, prompr, efficient attention is assured. Telephone, "City,
Eleven Thousand ” connects direct with all departments and special services.
GENTLEMEN’S MANICURE ROOMS
Expert manicurists are in attendance from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. daily (Saturday
till 1 p.m.). Appointments may be booked either personally or by ’phone.
BOOT POLISHING SERVICE
Conveniently locited in a sec'uded position adjacent to the Men’s Footwear
Section ; open daily from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. (on Saturday till lp.m,).
FOOT EXPERT
Gentlemen may make appointments to suit their own convenience with a
qualified Foot Expert who attend; periodically in Farmer’s Gentlemen’s
Footwear Section for the purpose of demonstrating the use of Dr. Scholl’s
celebrated foot appliances.
FARMER S, SYDNEY
“ Store for <JKCen ”
Telephone, City, Eleven Thousand '
S 3
What will
you wear
this season ?
The woman who makes
the fashions for others,
as distinguished from
the woman who takes
her fashions from
others, wears Tailor
Suits and Gowns con-
trived by SHAVE. Only
the craft of the e
master tailors has made
it possible for the well-
dressed to attain this
pinnacle of elegance
without waste of tirne
and bothersome fittings.
SHAVE;
Centreway,
Melbourne.
Ladies' T ailors,
Dressmakers,
iKAeltonian
[[SPECIALTIES
Creams
2nd
Pastes
Cleaning 8 Preserving
AIL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All first-class Stores.
Agrents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
fg
E. DROWN @ SON 3 LONDON
AOJENCIES • ALL * OVER • THE • WORLD
MCLBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Pg
Corsers
The G.-G. missed a crowded Futurity
Stakes day by week-ending at Lome with
Lrjy Helen and a bunch of aides. Had he
been at Caulfield he would have watched
another Bananalander bag the big stakes —
Freedman, with Gold Tie. It was Mrs. Hill-
coat, also of the North, who won the big
race of the previous meeting. This meeting
had its successful woman-racer, too —Mrs.
Hope, a Western District squatteress, who
got the Hawksburn Handicap with Lisna-
vane. Miss Una Clift is another aspirant.
Her grey Chrysolaus ran well in the Futu-
rity Stakes and is a favorite for the New-
market. Mrs. Andrew Chirnside also had
a horse out for the principal race, but it
staggered in second-last.
It was a sweltoying hot day and rejuven-
ated washing-frocks fluttered aoont the lawn.
Mrs. Hutchings was in pink muslin, and
a sweet flapper walked in a straight sheath
of sea-green silk with big toby-frills of
white. Mrs. Geoffrey Syme wore white and
black and brought a fine bevy of muslined
daughters. Mrs. Captain Scott hung a putty-
colored transparent apron over her silk
gown. Mrs. Currie dared the sun with
golden-orange ostrich feathers and a cool
frock. Mrs. Reggie Boyd came out in a
fascinating frock fresh from the ironing-
board. Mrs. Hildyard had fantastic lilac
lace on a grey gown and a big poke bonnet
of black lace—very fetching on a handsome
young face. Mrs. Hay (Corowa) wore a
dress covered with fashionable glitter. Mrs.
Gove was a bridal-grey dove. Several very
young things carried Japanese parasols, and
threatened the eyes of the multitude with
the spokes. It was a parasol day. On«
lovely shield was a flat surface of stretched
black tulle with a handkerchief of chiffon
brocade in the centre. Unexpected rain
would have sent the lovely ten-guineas’
worth to the dust-bin.
Preparations are in train for politely
farewelling Archgaiters Clarke, who has
a passage by the Tbemistocles, which is to
leave Melbourne on March 13. The city
will not be flooded with tears. As a vicar
of the Established Church in charge of a
comfortable living in England doubtless he
would have answered very well, but he was
never cut out for the headship of the
Anglican Church in an Australian capital
city. A search is being made for some-
body as a successor who will be at least
faintly reminiscent of Moorhouse. It is
possible to find the man in Australia.
Despite the use of the boxer hat by
Exes, and Lieut.-Exes., the horrible head-
gear persists in remaining as dead as door-
nails on the shelves of Melbourne hatters.
One city shopman had a show of these hats
last winter, filling his window to the brim
with all shapes and sizes, and in a week
he made only a single sale. The sight of
G.-G. Ferguson and Lieut.-Gov. Irvine sit-
ting side by side under grey and black
bowlers stirs few young or even middle-
aged males to emulation, though now and
again such sometimes-fi-erce dressers as
Fitz Boyd or Uncle Clive Baillieu come out
in hard-hitters of quaint snape and com-
plete unsuitability for Australian condi-
tions.
The Army Sisters gave an At Home to
General Birdwood. While he was shaking-
hands and saying “Now, where have I met
you before, sister?” a dozen grey uniforms
gathered in a corner and pelted questions
at each other —“Where are vou working?”
“How much are you getting?” “Isn’t it hard
to find a decent job !” and so on. Presently
a girl in civvy dress, but wearing a returned
badge, joined the party. “Hello!” said a
uniform, “hear you have a new, rich hus-
band! How did you manage it—Repat.?”
“Yes,” answered Mrs. Newly-wed, “simply
sent plong my photo and Repat. sent along
a husband.” “Hooray!” yelled the uni-
forms ; “let’s all apply.” “Better pot,”
advised a red-cape. “I posted my face to
Repat. last w 7 eek, and some wretch told me
to try three coats of enamel, and gave the
address of a hairdresser.”
Evening dress for women is gradually
completing the circle back to savagery. The
no-stocking craze led to painted decorations
on the legs. Every fashionable woman
must have a stencil or two in her toilet
paraphernalia. Now the washable tattoo
is spreading to the back and shoulders.
The back and arms are quite naked. The
breast-plate of jewelled silk is slung to the
back by strings of beads. Below the waist
line there is a brief fringe of silk, beads
and strips of tinselled brocade. Women pay
as extravagantly for the meagre bits of
glittering decoration as the savages did to
traders in the early days of the Pacific.
Stencils are so easy and cheap that they
will soon become “common.” “Exclusive”
sassiety women will therefore engage
special decorators. There is a new field
opening for the dozens of daubers who
never get hung.
Lots of debs, who hung fire because of the
war are preparing to bloom belatedly.
Their lily-of-the-valley and white brocade
is to be got ready for the Prince’s visit.
John McWhae, M.L.C., who is going for
a run to the Orient with his daughter, will
be given a dinner by his friend and squatter-
partner, Gaud Mayor Aikman, on March 1,
a week before his departure. A driving force
in the Cabinet, McWhae will be missed by
Lawson and McPherson. Like Baillieu, who
was a power in the second Watt and Pea-
cock administrations, McWhae prefers honor-
ary to stipendiary office. Both are wealthy
enough to regard Ministerial salary as a
trifle. By the way, Aikman is still spoken
of for the honorary Ministership which be-
came vacant when Kendell resigned nine
months ago.
Apparently the rumors of a split in the
ranks of the Firm are unfounded. Hairy
Musgrove, lately general manager of Aus-
tralasian Films, joins Paramount Pictures
as their London manager. This seems to
knock the bottom out of the report that he
and Hugh Ward were joining forces in a
theatrical venture.
Broad smiles have been provoked in Mel-
bourne Law Court precincts by the old-
fashioned “Oyez” proclamation made by the
tipstaff of Ewing. J., before each sitting
of the Northern Territory Commission. In
this he follows the musty traditions of the
Tasmanian Courts. When “King” Casey
was Minister for Lands here he adopted
the Court style when hearing appeals from
the decisions of Land Boards. Tommy Bent
and David Gaunson went up one day to see
the fun, but were just too late. “We only
caught sight o’ the hem o’ Casey’s gown,”
Bent told his friends, “but we were in time
to hear the 19-stone policeman bawl out,
‘This onrabble coort is now adjurrend,
s’elp me Gard look at that now.” Bent was
prepared to make an affidavit that the man
in blue winked and jerked his thumb back-
wards toward the vanishing Casey as he
uttered the word “that.”
Louis Stone, the Sydney author of two
good Australian novels, “Jonah” and “Betty
Wayside,” was here last week: he was off
to London in the Beltana. Stone took with
him a suit-case full of plays, and will make
some managers over there read them or die
in the attempt.
The James Dyers will on March 6 turn
over their home in Hawthorn to care-
takers and leave on a six months’ tour of
America and Europe. The war limited
their trips outside Australia, but now they
are able to indulge their old hobby.
Kathleen Watkins, who looks so earnestly
out of this picture by Francie Young, spent
most of the war-time as interpreter of
languages with the Commonwealth Censor,
and was the only
woman on that job
i n Australia. She
worked in French,
Italian, German,
Scandinavian, Fin-
nish, Esperanto and
Esthonian. The list
does not seem
“swank” to her—
she knows a man
who thinks in 23
languages, and that
makes her humble.
Kathleen is an Aus-
tralian who never
studied abroad. She
came by languages
much as she came by
her pigtail. Italian —her most-loved lan-
guage—was conquered in eight weeks.
German was studied when, as a schoolgirl,
she romantically fell in love with a duel-
scarred Ileidelberger. Other languages she
followed up in a frenzy of desire to read
plays and books in the original.
The stage attracted her, too. She joined
the Rep., and then did professional work
on the roads in one-night stands with
classics like “East Lynne.” But her voice
gave way and the stage * was abandoned.
Now that her war-work is ended, the
remarkable young person has started an
office in the Stock Exchange Buildings for
the translation of commercial correspond-
ence and for conducting foreign correspond-
ence of all kinds. She is the daughter of
Dr. Watkins, who was medical superin-
tendent for 20 years at Yarra Bend. The
whole family does clever things. Sister
Mary (Mrs. Bromley, M.A.) was for a
long time head of Rockhampton Girls’ High
School. Louise, an elder sister, was a musi-
cian to the Viennese Court in the days of
Francis Joseph. Brother Max is organist
at the Cathedral, Ballarat.
Adelaide fans herself and says:—
Huge fires ha.e swept through the Hills, reducing
orchards and gardens, grazing-land and homesteads
to ash-heaps. The plains are parched, and the trains
don’t run in the e.enings, and the roads are worse
than the oldest inhabitant ever knew them to be
before, and everybody except the suburban picture-
showman is in a bad temper.
The French Ited Cross appeal, with the Mayoress
as chairwoman and W. J. Gunson as secretary, has
resulted in a cheque for nearly £4500 being sent
to France —not bad for a hastily-arranged effort in
the slackest month of the year.
The Harry Halls —he is the owner of the Tatachilla
vineyards and is Sir Harry now —arrived by the
Mantua and are putting in a few days here before
going on to the Eastern States and Maoriland. Pas-
sengers by the same boat included Dora French, of
Mount Gambier, who spent the war years doing
canteen work in England, and Mrs. J. A. Macdonald.
For her it was a lonely home-coming: her husband
developed pneumonia and died at sea on February 2.
He had been the Tramway Trust’s chief draughts-
man, and was returning from a brief holiday trip.
That indefatigable miner of ancient history, A. T.
Saunders, has dug up the fact that in ’5l Police-
Magistrate A. Tolmer had a couple of women arrested
for Leing “clothed in an unbecoming manner” —to
wit, in muslin dresses and black velvet bodices with
sleeves that “did not come below the elbow” and,
in one instance, no hat—the brazen huzzy 1 They
were duly haled before him next morning, but as
they laid already put in a night in the lock-up he
decided that no further punishment was necessary.
British tennis-player Ivingscote and his wife left
here for England in the Indarra. His partners
Beamish and Lowe departed earlier in the week for
Brisbane.
The Art Gallery is to get some pictures from the
E. T. Smith estate, including portraits of himself
and his lady by G. A. J. Webb and a bronze bust of
himself. The white-elephant Orpen, by the way,
doesn’t seem inclined to go. An offer of £4OO was
made for it, but was promptly turned down.
Mrs. P. H. Wright, who died the other day at
Enfield, aged 78, was the proud mother of Charlotte,
now Mrs. F. A. Graham, of Leederville (W.A.), our
University’s first lady graduate.
Foregathering at Melbourne Town Hall a
few nights ago, Castlemaine Old Boys told
one another that they were the salt of the
earth. Had they not, they reminded them-
selves, provided the State with a Premier
(Lawson), an Inspector-General of the
State Savings Bank (G. E. Emery), a war-
scavred major-general (McCay), a Director
of Education (Frank Tate), a permanent
head of the Chief Secretary’s Department
(W. A. Callaway), a Y.C. (W. Peeler, now
of the Lands Department), a Chief Presi-
dent of the A.N.A. (G. D. McLean), a
Secretary of the Health Board (T. W. H.
Holmes) and other notabilities? In some
sort of way Poynton, Minister of Home and
Territories, and Tom O'Callaghan, ex-Police
Chief, also claim kindred with Lawson’s
stronghold.
The Wertheim-Felstead honeymooners
intend to nest in Cliveden Mansions.
The villain of the piece in a Melbourne
movie last week was so like Billy Hughes
that the house yelled every time he appear-
ed and thundered applause whenever he
was foiled. Someone said (in the dark) :
“That’s not Hughes, stupid! It’s an
American film.” “That may be,” mumbled
the second voice in the gloom, “but that’s
Tiie Bulletin’s Billy ’Ughes all right.”
The picture was the “Crimson Gardenia’" at
the Paramount.
Molly Dalrymple had a tennis party of her
own at the Toorak house. Brother Captain
Dalrymple was in the plav. along with other
returned champions. Dave Lilley and
Moncton Kelly, Gertrude Dix, Meg Hodg-
son and the Bowes Kelly girls also turned
up with racquets, and Edmund Jowett was
in the perfection of tennis togs and form
for the day.
Doris Carter, the singer, has left profes-
sional life with a newly-acquired hubby.
Captain Whelpton, an old English Grammar
School boy of these parts, met her in Eng-
land when he was on war leave. They have
both just arrived in Melbourne. Doris
Carter visited Melbourne some years ago.
She had much success in England and
bought herself a home at Maida Vale. This
she turned into convalescent quarters for
wounded men and had the excitement of a
bombing by Zeps.
Mrs. Major James had a party at the
Lyceum Club to meet Miss Helen Wicks.
Miss Wicks is an English girl who ran a
convalescent home, mostly at her own ex-
pense, in Mansfield, one of the Oxford
Colleges. She used to go out at daybreak
in a cart and secure provender for the day,
and the College was libertv-hall for soldiers
who cared to some in for food and rest and
recreation. There were hundreds of
wounded Diggers among the visitors.
The Women’s Automobile Club of Aus-
tralia is preparing new rooms and a garage,
and will have a special opening party soon.
Meantime it has planned a —guess! Yes, a
dance. But there’s to be a joy-ride, too—
in the moonlight of March 4. And a dinner
at the Gi’and.
Dr. Huxtable is just back from the wars,
and is perching for a night or two in Mel-
bourne on the flight home to Charter-
Towers. He managed to escape being men-
tioned in despatches for lots of things he
did, but he was caught twice, and lie has
the D.S.O. as well. Mrs. Huxtaole is with
him. And they are both with her s ster
the wife of Dr. Forrest, at the Grand. This
Dr. Forrest is Government medical-officer
at Charters Towers. He motored all the
way from that North Bananaland town in
a small Studebaker. His son, Dr. “Broncho”
Forrest, back from the war. has a brass-
plate in Collins-street. And a grandson
who will probably be a doctor, too, is surf-
ing at Mornington.
Bellona has yielded up a man who. would
have been sorely missed. Paul Wenz is of
German descent, but the family lost all
taste for it during more than a century
It settled in Klieims and became famous
in the wine industry. Paul came to Aus-
tralia and fell in love with the jumbuek
and took to squatting. When the war came
he rushed back to France, and through the
siege, of Rheims saw the battling at its
grimmest. He has a pretty pen, and has
given sketches of what he has seen in a
couple of volumes of French eontes. He has
returned as cheerful as ever.
Sergeant Walter J. Harvey. M.M., is
editing the history of the 24th Battalion,
which is shortly coming from the press under
the title of “The
Bed an d Whi t e
Diamond.” An old
Inky Wayfarer in
Ballarat and Ben-
digo, he got into
khaki at the first
bugle, an d went
through Gallipoli,
Pozieres, Bullecourt.
Villers - Bretonneux.
Mont St. Quentin
and other stunts
without anv fatal
damage. Tho u g h
offered a couple of
pips on his shoulder,
he clung to his
stripes so that he
might the better
make the Digger
into materia] for future work. In addition
to his Battalion story he has finished
an unconventional personal record which,
when issued in book form, will be precious
to many. * >
Who said all the sports were dead? Here’s
one, anyhow, in the Age (18/2/’2O) :
Wanted, Returned Man, for a husband, hero
essential; medals not objected to. , N. Bruns-
wick P.O.
Wise, P.M.G., is calling tenders for the
extension of the N. Brunswick P.O.
Charlie Hidgcpck, who was a schoolboy
when he left early for the war, is back with
a heap of responsibility on his young
shoulders. His father, who owned Pevensey
station on the Murrumbidgee, died of ’flu
the week his boy returned. The Toorak
home has been sold, and Mrs. Hidgcoek and
her family have been at the Oriental before
motoring up to Hay.
Judge Bevan, who was a Block johnnie
in the old days, dashes down Collins-street
occasionally during intervals of the Territory
inquiry.
Fred Ilall, composer of many Australian
songs, is convalescing after a serious opera-
tion.
There was a commotion in the entrance
of a big movie theatre the other night. An
apparently •’distracted woman-caller sent an
usher shouting the name of her husband up
one aisle and down another. Sympathetic
movie-watchers scented tragedy—a house
afire or a sudden illness. The woman
merely wanted to find if hubby was there
with the Other Cat. And he was. Now
there is another on the long list of threat-
ened divorces.
One-third of the authorised improvements
to the Uni. will be gone on with at once.
A contract has been let for the Arts and
Education block at £71.340. Students who
are now r cribbed and cabined are delighted
at the prospect of getting the six new lec-
ture theatres and the numerous study-rooms
which are provided for in the plans.
Lionel Short, a quiet, seemingly-nervous
young man, w T ho before the Big War was a
reporter on the Argus, has been welcomed
home by his elubmates. Lionel, who is a
nephew of the editor of the Leader, entered
camp as a private, and after doing some sur-
prising things has come back a captain and
an M.C. After Bean’s return he was official
correspondent with the A.I.F. in France.
Dora Meeson (Mrs. George _ Coates),
recently received into the exclusive circle
of the Royal Institute of Oil Painters
(London), is a Maorilander. She studied first
under Bernard Hall in the days when George
Coates was winning his travelling scholar-
ship, and Portia Geach drew up her easel
alongside the talented pair in the same
Art School. Later she journeyed to Lon-
don, and joined her artistic gifts with those
of George Coates. Within the past few
years an exhibition of the work of the P air
was held at the Athenaeum here.


n
*. ■
ALMA GLUCK.
PERSONALITY OF MUSIC
A beautiful voice can convey little to us —beyond
the physical sensation of beauty—until the possessor
of that voice puts “Soul” into it and so appeals to
our emotions. The first task of the artist is to
interpret faithfully the music that is being per-
formed. The intentions of the composer must be
realised, and it is at this point that personality first
comes into play. In the recording of musical art
these things count for much, and the personality
of the artists can be distinguished in their records
just as much as in their public performances. The
hallmark of PERSONALITY distinguishes
“His Master’s Voice
CELEBRITY RECORDS.
m
: i 1
«
V
v
CLARA BUTT.
SOME INTERESTING NUMBERS ARE HERE QUOTED.
3- —Le Cygne (Violin) .... Marie Hall
03157 —The Promise of Life . . . Clora Butt
4- —Molly Brannigan. .John McCormack
03253—0 Dry Those Tears. .Edna Thornton
053110 —Caro Nome, “Rigoletto” . . . Melba
03415—Carry Me Back to Old Virginny. . . .
Alma Gluck
4-2083 —Tommy Lad Harry Dearth
DOUBLE-SIDED.
iirrAA /Where My Caravan Has Rested.
8744 | Madriffal<
Hubert Eisdell.
ruKOf? / Waiata Poi (Poi Song).
1340U0 \ AbseTlt>
Rosina Buckman.
r'Too /I’m a Reamer.
" l The Bo’sun, the Gunner and Me.
Peter Dawson.
Complete record catalogue and name of nearest dealer on request
S7?e GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Rryd. Trade-mark.
103 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“Ilia :Master's Void
Read. Trad-e-mark.
Be sure to look
for this Dog
Trade-mark.
m
Z2k
I
miLiiiimiiLiumuiimm
fg
The Enclosed Top Prevents Escape of Silt from
“ALDRED” SILT SCOOPS.
Tig. 57:i. —Scoop in Tilling Position.
Think a minute what this point means to you!
Instead of silt passing through to disturb and contaminate the water, as is
the case where open-top scoops are used—the water is not materially
disturbed when the Aldred Silt Scoop is in operation, and as a result
stock may use the water immediately after the scoop has been through it.
Although the scoops can be worked singly—they are usually worked in
pairs—one emptying as the other nils, this giving an almost continuous
flow of silt from the tank.
This method of using means increased efficiency and greater economy
—for twice the amount of silt is moved in the time that would be taken
in operating one scoop.
Fig. 571. —Scoop in Emptying Position.
The “ALDRED” Silt Scoop Fills
Quickly !
Once filled, an automatic device stops cutting, and the scoop glides in easily on the
contents comressed in the scoop, as shown in Fig. 5 72.
This means less work on the horses or bullocks and, furthermore, removes the risk of
the ALDRED SILT SCOOP cutting into the banks when being hauled out —another
point of superiority over scoops with open tops.
These many advantages are the outcome of long
and careful study of Australian conditions, and
being built in Australia the ALDRED SILT
SCOOP has time and again been proved the most
successful and most economical Silt Scoop made.
GET THE FULL FACTS—
WRITE FOR FREE LEAFLETS
Ask for our list No. IS. This list gives in detail the main great features combined in
—and should certainly interest every man who has dams or waterholes to keep clean.
is free for the asking. Write and tell us your troubles.
the Aldred Silt Scoop
Our practical advice ;
I'ig. 573.—5c00p Returning Empty on its Back.
British-Australian Machinery Co. Ltd,
Wynyard Street, SYDNEY
Union Bank Chambers, BRISBANE
Collins House, MELBOURNE


Under
Royal
Warrant
ƒ
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
<-HVVMPACN£
'^ailesllcidsieo^
Reims
'*’'*<» feT £} ,*o***
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Ignition is the Heart
of the Motor Engine.
Benton Spark Plugs are the result of
scientific research for ignition efficiency. The
whole of the energies of a huge manufac-
turing concern are devoted to producing a
Plug that may be judged according to Cham-
pionship Standards.
Garage Proprietors are recommending them
because of their dependability—and the good-
will they give to their establishment as a
place where quality accessories may be pur-
chased.
Ford Cars require a Plug of special design.
Do not fit any type Jin. Plug, even if it is a
Benton.
Ask for “BENTON SPECIAL FOR FORDS.”
WHOLESALE (ONLY) DISTRIBUTORS:—
Bennett 8 BarkeSl
Limited,
"Traders’ Service House,"
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
m
gf
You’ll like the
snug fit of Vanity
Fair Silk Gloves
the fit that is the real
tistof well-m idegiovet
Vanity Fair Silk Gloves
are the popu a se ecc-
ion of women who de-
mand the best the m *r-
ket afford' and those
who must first consider
economy.
The guarantee with ev-
ery pair ensures longer
service from Vanity
Fair Siik Gloveor re-
placement free ot
charge.
ƒ
V.F. 16
BISURATED MAGNESIA RELIEVES
INDIGESTION IN FIVE MINUTES.
There is no doubt about it, Bisurated Mag-
nesia is the one real stomach remedy which
makes chronic dyspeptics smile and forget
all about their trouble. If your stomach is
out of order, due to irregularities or indis-
cretions in eating—partaking.of food too rich
or overmuch in quantity, giving insufficient
time to mastication, or any other similar
causes —you need no longer suffer after every
meal. The acidity which is the cause of
ninety per cent, of stomach troubles can be
immediately neutralised by taking a small
quantity of Bimrated Magnesia, which
undoubtedly does, and by its very nature
must v counteract the discomfort and _ pain-
inducing acid fermentation. Hence imme-
diate relief from the ills and inconvenience
arising from sour stomach. Bisurated Mag-
nesia is certainly worth trying, and is quite
easy to obtain, as your own chemist stocks
it in tablet and powder form, the choice of
which is entirely a matter of personal in-
clination or preference—it is equally effica-
cious in both cases. Get a bottle to-day.
You will be quite as pleased with the result
as are the thousands of people who have
already tried it and appreciate to the full
the immunity from stomach pains and dis-
comforts Bisurated Magnesia has afforded
them. —Advt,
A-WOMANS
ILTTLR
The British Empire League and showmen
Mclntosh and Hugh Ward having seized
their handful of feathers from the wings
of the famous Smith birds, the Institute of
Journalists called the aviary to Sargent’s
for another meal. The ballroom was
packed with members of the elastic
association, accompanied by its wedded mil-
linery, while Mrs. Sargent hovered for a
moment in the shadow of the lift like the
fairy of the feast. Maybe it was to have
a look at the high forehead of Boss,
from which the hair has been blown, and
his thin, sensitive Highland nose. Maybe
it was the 'dark, laughing Keith attracted
her attention. Keith could be imagined
hanging his halo on the hallrack of Heaven
and giving it a twirl each time he passed.
After the first day’s bewilderment Ross
would probably set his on at the most attrac-
tive angle, and say as he peered at the result:
“Really, this isn’t an .unbecoming style of
headgear, after all.” But the innate modesty
that clothes these young men like a shell is
something to be marvelled at. Not even
the subtle shafts of flattery from heavy
paper-weight Brooks could pierce it. Ross
made the responses to President Heney in
a clear voice that holds youth in it, clipping
his vowels and sounding his consonants in
a way that would have cheered the heart
of actor Titheradge. Mr. Holman came late
for the food but in time to make his speech.
Such a tired-out man’s speech I Every sen-
tence harking back to the concluding words
of the one before. A little medical man
closely watching him said suddenly to his
neighbor : “That comes from a brain so weary
it's like a bran-mash.” And what a speech
a Holman who had been fallow for a season
might have made out of the Odyssey of blue
days and golden cloud the youngster air-
men have lived !
The Ad. men, refusing to be pushed out
of the scene, next cornered Ross in their
rooms, where they made him and Keith
(who had run away) and the men who had
wet-nursed the engines (Shiers also missing,
having taken unto himself a wife) life
members of their tribe, and pinned them
to it with the golden brooch of the clan.
Then after the luncheon which had followed
on the Ad.-men’s affair, a step or two farther
to the Press Club for a less formal yarn.
In the evening the Aero Club had its bite
at the Elizabeth-street Voluntary Workers’
Cafe under a garden of flowers worked into
an aeroplane, in a dining-room all flags and
red cherry blossom.
Then Ross and his brother, released from
“functions” which had been crowded too
thick for their comfort, had a day off to
“kick around” —to drop into The Bulle-
tin Office for a yarn ; to look up, among
others, the man who had pictured them boil-
ing the billy and doing other bushmen’s jobs
on the great air-track; to tell him, with
their inveterate modesty, that they’d rather
have been able to do a drawing like that than
fly a machine to the moon. For that’s their
point of view. “We wanted to show that
with a good machine and good mechanics
you can go anywhere; and the more they
represent us as something extra the more
they defeat our purpose.” Yes; but the
tackling of the job called for the “something
extra,” and that’s no doubt the public’s
point of view.
An extra-nopular attraction at the garden
party at Belhaven under the auspices of the
Empire League was the wedding of Ser-
geant Shiers and Helen Lydia Alford of
Narrandera. Chaplain Wilson d'd the tying
in the open-air, while the guests gathered
round on the tennis-court and neighbors
and others scaled the walls. Four cinema
machines and six cameras clicked inces-
santly, increasing the bridegroom’s confu-
sion. Captain Rofjs Smith piloted the bride-
groom safely through, and smiled his smile
at another flight safely accomplished. At
the. eleventh hour the bride’s finery had not
arrived, so she said “I will” in’ borrowed
array. Five V.C.’s formed a guard of honor
and the bride’s soldier brother handed her
over to Sergeant Shiers. There was a
champagne breakfast, at which Mr. and Mrs.
Hugh D. Mclntosh filled the roles of parents
and the Tivoli saw the wedding party later] ’
The very next day the Haymarket flung
the whole scene upon the screen, and it’s
a consistently fine picture of the Hugh I)
Mclntoshes.
Apropos a Sydney published wedding-
story that the bridal veil was the one worn
by Queen Elizabeth :
Virtue pursued by queues of chaps
Might have a tempoi’ary lapse;
With Raleigh and with Essex near
A girl would have hard work to steer
And keep within the pale.
But still at this late date it’s mean
To give away the Virgin Queen;
For family friends with prying way
Will try to date the wedding-day
When poor Bess wore the veil!
It is unfortunate that Ross Smith and
his comrades, whom everybody wanted to
greet, were only given the chance to meet,
a very limited set of Svdney people.
The flying knight casually authorised his old
C.O. to fix up his programme. The General
was tired or busy or something, so he dele-
gated the job. with the result that the
famous fliers mostly found themselves con-
sorting with Empire Leaguers and Millions
Clubites. There are some admirable people
in both institutions, but they don’t repre-
sent the harbor-side community by long
chalks. So close was the monopoly set up
by the two bodies that the Aero Club only
got a date by the virtual issue of a
threat, and the Journalists had much the
same experience. At the back of the whole
trouble is the alleged fact that K.B.E.’s are
lying dormant, ready, as it were, to be stirred
to life by whatever citizen proves himself
in the weeks ahead to be most active in
public works. Hence the astonishing cam-
paign of self-advertisement which is pro-
ceeding in half a dozen directions just now.
Ross Smith could defeat the elements; but
in the hands of the other force he was as a
child. “God help the Prince!” Avas the
general aspiration amongst those who
watched the amiable young men being
exploited to make a climber’s reclame.
However, Mr. Edward Grigg’s chief busi-
ness will be to see that nothing of the sort
happens to the Prince. Besides acting as
“political adviser,” the official secretary will
attend to the Wallington side of the tour,
so to speak—if indeed Wallington himself
doesn’t come. Grigg is well fitted for the
task, being half-Australian by origin and
having a fairly recent knowledge of Sydney
and Melbourne conditions.
Yet, as a matter of fact, one of the first
favorites for a title of some sort is a man
who is rarely, if ever, in the public eye.
That is Colin Stephen, of the A.J.C. No
institution in Australia has been so lavish
in the matter of patriotic donations, and the
honoring of the chairman would please the
members at the same time as it gave the
national sport a mild boost. Colin Stephen,
who succeeded his brother-in-law, Adrian
Knox, in the chair, was a leading amateur
rider in his day, and he is still a first-class
polo-player.
This is Elsa Stralia, known to Sydney
folk as Elsa Fischer, whose fine soprano
voice was last heard here some nine years
ago. This season at Co vent Garden" she
replaces the great Destin (now Destinnova)
in Beecham’s English Opera Co. Destin-
nova, the greatest dramatic soprano of her
time, was interned
in her native Aus-
tria during the war,
and at its conclusion
renounced heir
nationality and
added a syllable or
two to her name. A
disagreement be-
tween the prima
don na and the
Beecham Co. gave
the Australian her
chance. Dinhgilly,
husband of Destin-
nov a, remains a t
Covent Garden in
baritone roles. This
Bohemian of French
origin has suffi-
cie n 11 y mastered
English to warble in that tongue. AVhen
interned in Austria he was requested to sing
at a concert. He consented—on condition
that he was permitted to include the Mar-
seillaise in his numbers. The baritone was
not on tne programme.
John Perry, old M.L.A. and new M.L.C.,
has at 75 taken a wife. She was Mrs.
Francis, a typist at Parliament House.
No smoke will issue from Bishopseourt
chimneys during the absence of the AVrights
in England. The only members of the
family to remain behind —Marjory,,the Pri-
mate’s eldest daughter, and her little brother
—stay in Newcastle with aunt and uncle,
the AVilliam AA’rights. Marjory hopes to
visit England next year with her aunt, Miss
AA’right. who is superintendent of the Dea-
coness House.
A bunch of well-known folk came by the
Mantua —Colonel Maguire, A.M.C., who
went with the original expedition to New
Guinea, and has been mending damaged Dig-
gers ever since ; Dr. Reg Davies and his wife
(she was a Parbury) ; the Dalgleishes of
Goulburn ; and Peggy Macarthur. whose dad
was once AAffiip of the House of Commons.
Peggy has gone to Orielton.
Mrs. Fred Jolley leaves by the Niagara.
Her husband, Lieut. Jolley, who recently
returned from the war but is not yet de-
mobbed, will join her in America later. He
wants first to visit his cocoanut plantations
in Rabaul, where he was British Consul
before the alarm sounded.
Next month the G.-G. will open Mowbray
Park, Picton, the model farm given by Mrs.
F. G. AYaley as a home for nervy convales-
cent soldiers.
Miss Etta Close, an affluent English
woman who could never do too much for
the Anzacs, lately arrived in Sydney from
M.L. looking for health and other old friends.
She was a Red Cross worker in Belgium in
the very early days of the war, and was
one of the first civilians to be gassed.
Invalided to England, she had a spell in
hospital, then started the popular Enzed
and Australian Club, near Selfridge’s, and
kept it going till the demobbing of its
patrons put an end to its usefulness.
“The wife of Major Moyes of a son.” She
is a daughter of James Edmond. Her youth-
ful husband gained an M.C. and lost a leg
in France.
Married so quietly that the whisper of
it scarcely floated through the aisles of St.
James’s, Eileen Marie Atherton, second
daughter of the AA’illiam Athertons, of Chil-
lagoe (Q.), to Dr. L. Nye, and lie’s the
second son of AA’. J. Nye, of Buderim Moun-
tains.
Miss N. Battye, who was such a pillar of
strength to the Clerical A\ r omen AA 7 ar-
AYorkers and one of the first members of the
AA 7 omen’s Service Club, found that same
membership her bed-and-board in London.
The AV.S.C. is affiliated with the Pioneer
Club,- so when Miss Battye found London
with the full-house sign displayed, the
Pioneers, who were also full up, sent her to
the American AA 7 omen’s Club in Mayfair.
American sister knows how to do herself
well; and the Australian girl is luxuriating
in a bed-sitting room furnished by ford-
comptroller Hoover’s wife. The furniture
and works of art have all been presented
by well-known Yankee citizens. There are
gay doings at the Club, too —special func-
tions and dances trip upon each other’s
heels.
Back in Sydney, artist A r ernon Lorimer,
who went away five years ago with the
A.M.C. The Artillery knew him later on ;
and since the Armistice he has been aide to
General Rosenthal, a member of the Lang-
ham Sketch Club, and an intimate of Has-,
sell. Baumer and Rickman. He’s busy repa-
triating himself now with brush and pencil.
The Papal Delegate is booked for another
knot-tying, and this time it is to take place
in the dignitary’s own chapel. T. J. Dalton
is the bridegroom-to-be, and a Miss AVarne,
of Randwick, is wearing the perfectly-
gorgeous engagement-ring. She is pretty
and fair, and in the early twenties.
One coming wedding that seems to be
pleasing all the in-laws to be is that of
Nancy Isaacs, of the brainy red top-knot,
who associated for her father, the High
Court Judge, till. she went for the trip to
England that is to be rounded off with a wed-
ding-ring next month. The young man is
Captain Sefton Cohen, son of George Judah
Cohen, the bank clerks’ friend. On the 15th
of January Nancy cabled her engagement
and asked mamma to cross over for the wed-
ding ; but a hurry-up in the arrangements
renders mamma’s presence impossible, unless
she travels by air.
Titian-haired Eva Mylott sends a line
from her home, Flushing, Long Island, that
a second son arrived as a New Year’s gift.
Helen Jerome is packing her grip, and
with daughter Carmen is getting aboard a
boat bound for ’Merica, where a newspaper
job awaits her. Carmen will go on to Stan-
ford University.
From the moment the first clear lyric
note rose from her throat, Rene Maxwell
was a success. The huge audience in Sydney
Town Hall smiled radiantly as if in mutual
congratulation, and put it all into the burst
of applause that followed the opening num-
ber, “Air de Lia” from Debussy’s “L’Enfant
Prodigue.” Rene’s voice is of lyric quality,
with reserves of brilliancy and dramatic
force. She sang with rare charm Bridge’s
“Go Not, Happy Day,” and in “The Dove”
she might have been one of the pretty
feathered creatures who, according to Tenny-
son, pass their lives cooing in immemorial
elms; her “Caro Nome” was the song of
a healthy young girl, though probably she
will get more color into it when she has the
heavyweight physique of the middle-aged
star.
Rene, in white, and accompanist Julie
Rosenwax, in eeranium-red. received the con-
tents of several florists’ shops bound -with
many metres of ribbons, but it was for the
bundle of gum-tips that the young singer’s
eyes glowed the brightest. She swooped on
these and cuddled them, and it was with
them still hugged close to her that, in
response to encore after encore, at the very
end she sang “Home. Sweet Home,” and
only saved the gum-tips from a sudden
downpour by a hasty exit that quite forgot
its bow and left Julie in sole possession of
the stage. Had it been a Continental audi-
ence it would have stood upon its chair and
’waved its hanky; being Australian it
crowded about the girl’s own people to con-
gratulate them.
Outside, though the pavements were sod-
den and the sky threatened, the big audi-
ence formed an avenue of triumph, and as
the girl who has been the most homesick
thing in London for the past six years
passed to her car, she knew she had come
home.
Madge Titheradge, who has been helping
to make movies in the U.S.A., took with
her from London three brand-new fur c-oats
—one ermine, one mink and one seal 50
pairs of boots and shoes (and we know what
millions they cost now), SO pairs of silk
stockings (the newest are of shot silk,
heavily embroidered as to front), three'
dozen hats, and
(literally) dozens of
frocks for all occa-
sions. One, the
pride of the bunch,
is a dull blue stoek-
ingette affair, with
large mother o’ pearl
buttons (on which a
black cat gloats
over a tangerine
mouse) down the
front and on the
flaps of the large
pockets. Her even-
ing frocks, short
and narrow as to
skirt, are devoid of
trimming as to cor-
sage. On arriving
in the film-country,
Madge started off with a thrill: her
train, with all this wonderful picture-
trousseau aboard, was run into by a
very much larger one, against which,
after a faint resistance, it decided it had no
chance; so Madge and all aboard took to
the open fields under a weeping sky. One
way and another you can get a lot of excite-
ment in American railroad-travelling.
Ex-A.1.F.-er Vernon Sellars sang outlaw
songs in a rich baritone that would have
inspired the Kelly Gang to conquer Aus-
tralia, and Cyril Monk caressed the strings
of his fiddle into giving out the music it
learned when it was the bough of a magic-
tree. The last concert of the season will
take place to-night (Thursday).
A line from a recent visitor: —
Wonder wnat the visitor from afar must think
of the arrangements in the cloak-room of the
Jenolan Caves House, where the by-the-day woman-
traveller is supposed to make her toilette? One day
last week, when the place was crowded to overflow-
ing-, I found this room supplied with four wash-
hand basins and one roller towel. There’s not a
woman alive who’d grudge 2d. for a clean towel;
it’s so much cheaper than picking up a loathly
disease free of charge.
Arrangements for the Bush Book Club
Ball go well. Not only will the vice-regal
establishment beam for the occasion, but
“Birdie'’ and his wife are going to beam
too. Fancy- and evening-dress permitted;
former preferred. Sets are being arranged,
and information is obtainable from secretary
Beulah Bolton.
One evening last week Bowral was lured
from its movie hall into the School of Arts,
where Kathleen O’Connor, daughter of the
late and much-lamented Justice O’Connor,
warbled songs by Massenet, Lemaire and
Tschaikowsky. The chief interest lay in the
rendering of six songs, words mostly by
Dorothea Mackellar, music by Kathleen her-
self. They were all well worth hearing.
Soldier brother Max, of* the Light Horse,
helped to hand cartloads of flowers over the
place where the footlights were not, on to
a stage which had been converted into a
charming setting for the 'young artist with
her Spanish coloring and features. Friends
regretted the absence of sister Winifred,
now Mrs. Alex. Miklouho Macleay, who
before her marriage was such a delightful
accompanist to the family, which boasted
several songbirds; but Gladys Teeoe
wheedled the crusty piano and wooed soft
notes from its hardened carcase with much
success.
Malcolm McEachern and wife, Hazel
Doyle, are making good in America. The
basso recently gave a successful recital at
Carnegie Hall. New York, under the direc-
tion of Daniel Mayer. Two years ago the
Sydney singer left for a South African
tour. Press notices put him alongside
Watkin Mills and Peter Dawson. A return
season followed. Adventures encountered
on the way to America would make a first-
class movie. Ship afire, murder, suicide
and ’flu compelled a return to Durban. Ulti-
mately the. ship burnt itself and sank at the
dock. Later McEachern read in the Ameri-
can papers a moving account of his death
from ’flu. The basso was singing at a pic-
ture theatre when Roland Foster took Daniel
Mayer to hear him. and the great entre-
preneur at once placed concert and oratorio
engagements in his path.


roionjLT
OPS
9*
3
m
■O
m
wm
mm
'■■■ .
its
mmm
m
m
Wm
m
■
si
■
w—
' ,■;
.
HW
fIH
11111 l
m
mam
.icy :
faff
Q
or
e
z/sic
at <your firusbr tips:
THE possession of a Beale Player-Piano brings the
world’s best music to your fingers’ ends. In it you
find an instrument of expression, which releases all
the surging emotions that forever before have been
stifled and inarticulate.
The Beale provides a piano which appeals to all that
is best in your musically proficient friends—and also a
technique which enables you to re-live old favourites
when you are thrown on your own resources for en-
tertainment. Song-rolls, especially if you sing, open
the widest possible field for enjoyment.
With a player-piano you have a versatility that tran-
scends the greatest repertoire of the greatest living
virtuoso. A Beale brings the world of music to your
finger tips.
The better musician you are the more you 'will appreciate the c ßeale
SHOWROOMS:
3 33 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
BEALE
AND COMPANY LTD.
FACTORY:
4i-47 TRAFALGAR ST.
ANNANDALE
BRANCHES—N.S.W.: Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulbum, Wagga. Victoria : Maples, in
all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania : Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia .
John Evans Ltd., Adelaide. Queensland : Queen Street, Brisbane ; Maryborough ; Townsville ;
Rockhampton ; Mackay ; Cairns.


THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
The above ,
is the titled
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HAH It Y ,T.
W KSTCUf, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send thr e e
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.’’
gf
ƒ
THE. HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing',
184 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
FOR SEA SICKNESS
& TRAIN SICKNESS
MOTHERSILL S has received the
unqualified endorsement of the leading
papers of the world, and the finest testi-
monials from the world’s greatest men,
women, and institutions. Amongthese are
Bishop Taylor-Sm th ( haplain General
of the British Forces), Djctors, Bankers,
Polytechnic Tours, Silyation Army, etc.
%
Sold Under a Positive Guarantee to
Prevent and Cure Sea or Train
Sickness or Money Returned.
MOTHERSI LL’S is guaranSoel rot to contain
Cocaine, Morphine, Opium, Chloral, or any oi
the coal-tar poducts.
NO BAD AFTER EFFECTS.
All Chemists, in Large and Small Boxes.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO., LTD.
Aberdeen House, 204 Clarence St., Sydney
DRAWS
OUT
THE POISONS
which cause Barcoo Rot,
Bad Legs, Sore Feet,
Carbuncles,. Boils,
Poisoned Wounds,
Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, and
those arising from Insect
Bites.
The Proprieties of
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT
have an absolute confidence in its un-
surpassed merits. They'know it to be a
safe and perfect cure for all skin and
blood ailments; and the' vast number of
testimonials received prove this.
GRASSHOPPER positively
draws the poisons which produce
these maladies out of the system.
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifier,
and for those who suffer from headaches, tin-
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do,not be persuadeu
to purchase any substitute preparation-..
Sold by all Drug Stores and Chemist
throughout the Commonwealth.
g
333§
THE. WORLD'S
>RLD'S BF - 5T VALUE
KSES;
f
INFLUENZA
Used In the Melbourne Hospitals
Brooke’s “Lemos”
The Purest Lemon Squash.
ƒg
SEND YOUR HEIGHT AND AVEIGIIT
WITH SADDLE ORDER.
WRITE FOR OUR BIG SADDLERY
CATALOGUE POST FREE.
99
The “KEMP.
A Poley Saddle »o Sit
a Buck in.
The rider feels perfectly at home in this saddle.
The pads are set very high up, almost level with
the head of saddle, and along the rider s
thighs. This saddle has been used by Professor
and Miss Kemp in buckjumping exhibitions for
many years past. The whole saddle is made in
comfortable, flexible kip leather and the panel
lias broad facings at back and leather points down
sides.
The fittings are special Kemp pattern folded
leather girth, bevelled leathers and solid nickel
stirrups.
£ll/10/-
Freight Free for
Cash with Order
to any N.S.W. Port or Station on Jhe
N.S.W. Railway System.
r-
Trim
TOO-KOO-KOO- KBURRA
'WHIPS
K’BURRA STOCKWHIPS.
THONGS.. 7ft. Bft. 9ft. j HANDLES:
12-plait .. 17/- 19/6 21/«!15/6,17/6
16-plait . . 19 / 6 22 / - 24/6 For 9ft. Thongs
POST FREE FOR CASH. I 17/., 19/.
WE ARE POLO SPECIALISTS.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON Ltd.,
SADDLERS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
Sydney
A CONTRACT IS A CONTRACT
f
DYES.
THE reputation of our Pyramid Aniline
Colors has been established durinsr a
period when it has not been easy to live
un to our standards. The quality of our
Pyramid Aniline Colors is as firmly fixed
to-day in the minds of buyers as our slogan
“A Contraet, is a Contract.”
Every shipment of our Pyramid Aniline
Colors is tested to see that it conforms to
our standards before it is allowed to so
forward. We will send our complete Dye Catalogue on request.
Specialists Vin the export of American chemicals.
Importers of raw materials for American industries.
BUSH, BEACH & GENT Inc.,
80 Maiden Lane, Holbrook Building:,
New York. U.B.A. San Francisco.
Gable Address {Both Offices) “Beachfred
mimiiiiiiiiimimijliiiliiiiiuiliiu
BUSH, BEACH a GENT me.
New YorX - San Francisco. U.SA
mitimiimmminiimimi
GENUINE I’ICKERING
GOVERNORS. All Types,
fin. to 4 inches.
Intercolonial
Boring Co. Ltd.
BRISBANE,
Engineers’ Merchants, Manufacturers.
Engineering Requisites of all Descriptions.
Hercules Windmills Hercules Oil Engines Hercules Boring Plants
1.8. C. Horizontal Steam Engines 1.8. C. Walking Beam Pumping Plants
1.8. C. Brass Artesian & Well-Pump Cylinders 1.8. C. Centrifugal Pumps
1.8. C. Power Working Heads 1.8. C. Syphon Windmill Pumps
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Cast Iron and Wrought Steel
Pulleys, Circular Saw Benches and Spindles, Crab Winches,
London Pattern Blocks, etc., etc.
Offices and Warehouses—
-418-424 & 450-460 Ann Street, Petrie’s Bight.
(Trams pass near by.)
Works—
Yeerongpilly.
[i
ƒg
f
Shaving: with
The “PLUM”
RAZOR
Is a pleasure you’ll anticipate.
This noted Razor is no new invention.
For many years it has maintained its
supremacy through sheer consistency of
merit.
The “Plum” requires but little strop-
ping, as its finely tempered edge keeps
keen against the strongest beard, and
gives that smooth, velvety shave which
every man appreciates. Thousands of
“Plum” Razors are sold annually.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of
charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
?air in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 80/-
This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strops, 7/0 and 10/6 each.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2.
All the above Post Free.
SAFETY
RAZORS.
“Army and Navy” Safety Razors, with Strop, 12/6 ear Ik
Ditto, in Nickel Case (flat), suitable for travelling, 15/6.
The “Army and Navy’’ Razor has our fullest recommendation.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 Georg? Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Ko notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stumped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. Xo
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
H.A.B.D.: (1) Ireland’s 572,574 agricul-
tural holdings are in the hands of 561,617 occupiers;
367,058 holdings are owned by the tenants. The
total agricultural population (male and female) is
780,867; so the 64 per cent, quoted by The
Bulletin understates the case if anything. For
statistics vide the “Statesman’s Year Book” for 1919.
(2) Most of the holdings have been bought by the
tenant's under the Land Purchase Act, the cash
being advanced by the British Government and the
transactions supervised by three Estates Com-
missioners. Up to March 31, 1918, £102,988,179
had been advanced in this way. Get from Gordon
and Gotch the recently-published “Ireland” supple-
ment to the Times for fuller details... .S.J.L.: “A
Clouded Dawn” is wafted back.... A.H.G.: It’s a
good gag—-at least it used to be.... Blackout: The
Irvine yarn is as old as yesterday.... Lance Jack:
Tell the story in a few lines.... W.G.C.: You seem
to have the wrong man. There are not two of
that name in the A.I.F. who would fit your tale.
....Chris M. H.: Can’t reprint.... Brownie: Heard
many stories about the Angels of Mons. Yours is
the most unlikely of an unlikely lot... .G.H.I.:
Don’t know whether the war made democracy safe.
Judging by the outbreak of diamonds it was too
busy safe-making for plutocrats. .. .Ivan O.: Thanks;
but that brick has been thrown already.... School-
master: But how does all that bear on the point
raised, which was merely that of over-long vacations?
.... Recip. Cyn: “Orange Blossoms” may all be true,
but a good lie would be more interesting... .R.C.:
“Poetic Wealth” starts well, but the last two
stanzas don’t match the beginning.... Alex. W.:
“Prose and Poetry” strikes no new note and con-
fuses the old ones. . . . W.M.W.: Crude commonpltice.
. ...Gamalgi: Smooth verse with nothing in it....
R.D.F.: There’s feeling in it, but the verse is not
yet, good enough.... Bunder: That ground has been
worked to the last grain.... Cam: Not quite, though
you seem to be somewhere on the road....J.S.
(Yana Junction): Rotten... .Tai ller: Not nearly.
....Seedy: Ditto. . ...J.S. (Townsville): Verse is
wicked. ...William H. F.: Might do elsewhere....
Guy Rop'e: They won’t do. ...A.A.T.: We’ll print
this much for the sake of the last beautiful rhyme:—-
I am pretty and talented, said she,
At a rich man’s desk I will surely- be,
And who can tell what may happen then,
As only for fun I take up pen ?
She sallied forth one bright day
And answered an ad., who could say
Bachelor or widower,
What mattered if he married her?
....Alan B.: “Death Waits’’—in the basket....
Nexham : No “prawner stealeth by” in verse as poor
as that. . . . J.D.W.: Oil your Muse. She bumps....
Brimbayo: If all your bad rhymes were stars you’d
never need the moon. . . .S.E.N.: Don’t care for them.
Cheer up.... Frilled Lizard: We note that the girl’s
cheeks arc the color of wine. The tint is a bit
strong. . .. Walad : Hardly enough there. .. .V.K.T.:
You are on the road. .. .Marcus B.C.: How did you
manage to get rid of all thought? Did it go with
the rhymes you dropped?... .H.H.P.: You have some
distance to go. . . .Miramar: No use. . . .Mish: A man
who could rhyme “flock” and “spot” would find
music in an ungreased wheelbarrow. .. .M.G.C.: You
can’t rhyme “lute” with “truth” in Australia....
Doris H.: Not enough there. Probably Webster got
the others. .. .Ruth C. F.: “Leaves” to rhyme with
“trees” and “age” with “ways” !. , . . Fanuela: Gal-
lops like a draught-horse.... Brumby Jack: Won’t
do. ...Bertha A. J.: Y"es; Time’s like that. But
with all his faults we wouldn’t hurl that blank
verse at him.... Jack F.: It’s got to be better than
that....G.M.J.: Pretty commonplace waves those.
. ...D.M.H.: The metre of the second stanza goes to
pieces.... Percival: The verse isn’t much....
W.R.G.C.: Don’t do it again....A. Jackass: An
idea, but the verse doesn’t carry it. .. .Dele N. (the
N might be an II or an A or an F) : Your
idea of violent kissing is interesting, but the verse
goes sadly... .E.M.L.: “Plane Song” bursts on the
amazing line, “Till earth-bound men and gods are
ken.” What on earth does it mean ? . . . . Chis : Not
bad, but doesn’t shout for print.... Wheel C.: No.
. . . . J.F. (Bondi Junction): Blank verse must be a
lot better than that. . . .C.N.B.: You don’t make
anything of the yarn. . . .N.P.B.: Not even with
“esquire” attached to the signature is the verse
worth while.... B.K.G.: Nothing in it.... John S.:
Not up E.J.G.: Horse incident worth a par. Try
it that way... .E.B.H.: No, thanks... .A.B.: Not
a thrill in all the long montony of it. .. .Bellerive:
“After Long Years” is a fine example of your new
condensed style :—
Two outlaws bold, over illgotten gold,
In the depths of a forest one nivht.
As the moon divine in the sky did shine
Drew pistols for tragic fight.
In a village home across the foam
At the close of a tranquil day,
Sad and o’ercast, recalling the past,
Mournfully brooded a veteran grey.
For gold he cried, by my hand he died,
Far, far o’er the rolling main.
Years have sped since he’s blood I shed—
Blot out, God of Heaven, the stain!
....A Mother: Not a satisfactory chicken....
K.M.H.: Thanks ; but we’re afraid if our conscience
troubled us about the Resch ad. it wouldn’t get
much comfort from the fact that the other rag
published a Seppelt ad Kedre: There would be
a good par in it if you told us about the thing itself
and how it was done.... Ignis: Too hard to swallow.
. ...F.A.Q.: It isn’t. .. .Canuck: But there’s no
Parliamentary Labor party in Canada —not a dozen
members in State and Dominion Houses put together.
. ...G.D.C.: Don’t know for certain, but when the
wind got up in a cold land a man shivered, and
that’s probably the origin of it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.M.: If you weren't a lady we’d think you’d
seen Pat McGirr, M.L.A., through the bottom of
a pint-mug. .. .W.R.II.: Neither point nor quality.
. ...D.L.A.: Do they grow nudes like that your
way ?.. . .C.F.: Your waiter will not serve here....
R.H.McG.: You add to the horrors of war with
your lantern-jawed Billjim and your cross-eyed nurse.
. ...II.H.D.: What did Bertie do that you should
put him in tin trousers ?.... J.C.: Joke better than
the drawing. (P.S.: The joke is no good.)
E. A. Poe didn’t use up all the horrors.
A Gisborne (M.L.) water-seeker lately
drilled a lOin. bore-hole 17ft. deep and his
14-months-old son fell into it. Fishing with
rope and hooks failed, and the child had to
be dug out. It died within a few hours.


Snipping.
ORIENT LINE:
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Labtnes-ae-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Hathrooms.
Single-berth Looms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
lates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd,.
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
4, (i Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes —Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, MARCH 17,
VENTURA.
10,QUO Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Hanking:, Public Companies, ltd.
THK
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hoti. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
lit. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY. M.L.A. ; Don. Sir HOHEIiT PHILP,
K.C.M.G. ; non. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to .Tune 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. . . £BOO,OpO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 770,127 10 0
Reserve Funa .. .. .. .. 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Buniiing, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. AV. Gray, M.L.C.; .lames Love. Esq. ;
AV. H. Hart, Esq. ; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager— AV. V. RALSTON.
lIKAII OFFICE ... BRISBANE
Brandies —London, Melbourne, Sydney mid
tb rough out Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerloa, Canada, South Africa, China, the EaBt.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors : HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman •
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D.; FRANK N. YAlt-
AVOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C. ; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and Kin-
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 146 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,196,224
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, Xew Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated I 860.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. . . £500,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .■- 570,000
£1,070,000
Uncalled Capital 125,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 625,000
£1.820.000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 85 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping:, etc.
Canadiarv-Austrahsian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Bed Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (IM.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, Early.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World —the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Palls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can he seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
/J
mi
mm
’
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve l'und
Reserve liability
Established 1817.
Directors:
£4,000,000
3,200,000
4,000,000
£11,200,000
The lion. Sir Lnarles K. MaeKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland. l'.sq.
diaries Binnie, Esq.
ltobert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq
Auditors: A. G. Mils'on, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office —2i) Xhreadneedle Street, E.C.
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commomvealtb.
ƒ
JBattf^Bustralta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2782 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of .the Pacific.
War Service Homes, as Agent -for the Commissioner
(A special Department in each Capital City)
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1920 Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Capital paid up £2,462,578 2 6
Reserve Fund.. £2,120,000 O 0
Reserve Capital £2,500,000 0 0
£7,082,578 2 6
Established 1834.
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. FI. E. Kater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
11. IF. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY*, 343 GEORGE STREET.
branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers — The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank. Limited. t
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORED.
Shipping.
Huddart Parker LiM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
SAILINGS (Intercolonial and Inter-
State) SUSPENDED DURING
ENGINEERS’ STRIKE.
HUDDART PARKER, LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne;
George Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
tiie fine twin-screw steamer
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
| every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
; gers.
i The round journey from Melbourne occupies 20
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street.
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
T H !L North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAV AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to ' BYRON BAY, "GOFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Picturesque Route to Brisbane.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 13s. Cd. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 7s. (id. ' For particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
bv this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars' of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
g
George hotel.
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
liarsreKt Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
ƒ
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we stale
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
It' it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Limited.
Eitzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOli:
Biitish India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Svdney) •
p & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney,.Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane. , . • . , ,
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Bnsbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. at Queens-
Union an S.s!°Co. ) of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Huddarf Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports)
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, • Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


g
f
Hunt’s Underwear
TO supply the growing demand for
well-fitting Underwear of a
high-grade fine English and
Scottish woven textures,
WE CARRY A WIDE ASSORT-
MENT, and exclusive choice of Fine
Soft-finish Wool, Silk and Wool and
Pure Silk, in many weights and
colorings.
The sizes range from chest 34in. to
50in., including extra width, short and
length fitments, which form an integral
part of a well-fitting garment.
JUST LANDED—
NEW GOLF COAT SWEATER,
Latest shades, extra light weight.
Jliclmri) ;simt
314 George Street
(near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
ƒg
CORRECT
FOOTWEAR
is essential to a well-dressed appearance,
therefore it should have the greatest care
in selection.
ABBEY SHOES
are distinctive in appearance, and of the
highest quality throughout. Being made
in half and full sizes and in narrow,
medium and wide fittings, absolute com-
fort and perfection in fit is assured.
We feature a High-grade Patent Derby
Bal. in a smart “made-to-order” style.
Price 67/6
Also in Tan Willow Calf 60/-
Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
m
Inc
M
4 m
SO
&
c&=
o,v
Life-like Re-creation, at last.
Even in this age of Invention, when so
many marvellous discoveries and achieve-
ments have been made, the work of
Thomas A. Edison stands out boldly
among the greatest of them all. And his
most wonderful success, his greatest
masterpiece, is the New Art of Re-
creating Music.
The NEW EDISON
has survived the severest test to which it could be put.
World-famed artists have constantly been invited to
sing and play in direct comparison with the recreation of
their work. Many of the great musical critics of the day
have been present on these occasions, and have freely
admitted in their own newspapers that they could not dis-
tinguish the living voice from Mr. Edison’s Re-creation of it.
Write to-day for details of this unique instrument, and learn to
realise what happiness it will bring into your home.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street. Sydney.
f
r-5
ƒg
f
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
ƒ
•‘A marvel at the }mce.”
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre, 18in.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2Mb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
25/=
gf
"Simple and extra strong in construction."
810. Winchester Single-shot Rille, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all. 37Jsin.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b ttf\l
(Postage —N.S.W., 2/-; other States, 3/8.)
ƒ
BIM. The Celebrated “Maine” Rifle, designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim tire.
It can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate.
Weight about 31b., fitted with plain V-back sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
33/'
g
“Suitable for small game and target shooting
85. Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeating
Rifle, 22 calibre; magazine holds 15 short, 13
long or 11 long rifle cartridges, mixed or separate; 20in. round barrel:
length over all, 35in. ; weight 441 b. ; slide action, blade
front and screwrear sights Freight paid,
75/-
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
fg
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy.”
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model 16-sliot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, l>andles 2-
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about:
£5/10/-
f f
“EVER READY” PA ™
CIGARETTE MAKER
Simple and durable. Nothing to get out of order.
Full instructions with each one.
PRICE Bd. POST FREE
g ƒ
“A suitable weapon for the boy.’
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22'calibre, rt.F.,
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights: weight.
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9 ; other States, 3/2.)
37/6
ƒ gf
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the marhet.
838. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model I(>A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length o£ barrel --
inches.
Magazine holds 15 cartridges.
Weight sifll>
Freight paid,
£8
Marble’s Waterproof Match-boxes.
Absolutely Water- and Moisture=proof.
Made of Seamless Drawn Brass, Heavily Nickelled.
Indispensable to the Outdoorsman. Post free,
m
ƒ
1514. Winchester Repeating Rifles,
Model, 25/20-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
1892
With Round Barrel .
With Octagon Barrel
Freight paid,
Freight paid,
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines,
20in. round barrel, weight about s£lb h reig'ht pan,
£7 151-
£7/10-
£6/10-
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List Post Free to any address.
1C
mSTRMLm'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
WTD TOBTICCOTTISTS
m
City Sports Depot
99 King St, also at
Newcastle £ Brisbane


REXONA and REXONA SOAP
MORE POPULAR THAN EVER.
.
■
LITTLE ALMA MATCHETT
(from, a photo).
In every home Rexona is an essential need,
so if you have not tried the Rexona remedies,
begin at once; you will find so many uses for
them that you will wonder how ever you got
along without them. Rexona the Rapid
Healer is the King of Ointments, and Rexona
Soap is the Aristocrat of Soaps; prove their
superior benefits for yourself.
I feel very grateful to Rexona for the way
it cured my daughter Alma of a trouble-
some rash, that I feel I must write you.
The rash she suffered with was very bad
indeed, and I tried everything I could
think of to help her, but nothing seemed
to do her any good until a friend of mine
recommended me to try Rexona Soap and
Rexona Ointment. I did so, and am very
thankful that I did, for the result was
magical. She was better immediately
after I commenced the treatment, and was
completely rid of the rash within one
week’s time. As a result we all think
Rexona a wonderful healer, and shall
have a pot of it in our house in the future.
Sincerely yours,
(Sgd.) Mrs. E. MATCHETT.
148 Grafton Street, Woollahra, Sydney.
REXONA,
the Family
First Aid.
Mother is the home doctor;
every day she is confronted
with some kind of little
hospital work, either a cut
finger, a rash, bruise or
burn. She must be pre-
pared by having something
handy that she knows she
can rely on, and for that
reason she should always
have Rexona the Rapid
Healer. Rexona is a complete First-
aid Cabinet in itself. It cleanses
and heals cuts, bruises, sores and
wounds. It kills germs, heals, and
puickly gives relief from aches and
pains. See to it that you get the
genuine Rexona, the Rapid Healer.
Sold -only in triangular pots at 1/6,
or in larger pots, holding nearly
four times the quantity, at 3/-.
Rexona Soap, 1/- per tablet.
Rexona,
116 and 3!-
Rexona
Soap,
11-
FH..U,
// V
/AnMiipht Ointment '
furely on Ab»oU«
v «fg«f*»WU C.rm.cd,
\
k
V
m
w
t* a d
2*
SKIN
(r
A REFRLSHinO SOOTHIN
HE All NC 6*..SEPT'C SC.«.P
MEDICATED ON tHE SAME PRINtIPIE
AS THE FAMOUS REA'OHA OINTMf NTJ&gjgi
Onoto
THE SAFETY PEN NEVER LEAKS.
Self-Filling, 17/- Valveles*, 12/6.
ONOTO INK—Best for a«l Pens—Obtain ble Everywhere
.r—-
LLI
c
liL
O
a
h-
=*r
y**t
Vjfc
m
m vk
'm
*r^
?
11l weeds grow apace, and their presence
robs the soil of the nourishment required
by crops, reduces yields, and increases
the cost of production.
Blackberries and St. John’s Wort are
already in undisputed possession of valu-
able areas of land, and are gaining ground
rapidly.
The farmer who wages war on weeds and
scrubs with
“VALLO” Brand
Weed, Scrub, and Tree Killer
—the economical and infallible means of
destroying any and every kind of noxious
growth —is best off in the long run.
With him clean and profitable crops and
pastures are the rule and not the exception.
Put “Vallo” on your clearing job NOW,
and just watch it work. You’ll not regret
it.
Manufactured by
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
Melbourne - Sydney - Brisbane
TREES and SCRUB
ST. JOHN’S WORT
THISTLES DOCKS
BOXTHORN
COUCH FERNS
FURZE SORREL
WEEDS of every Lind
m
VALLCT
BRAND
.weed, scr%„
% tree
[poison]^
59
The Death of Day.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
mHE day was dead. Below a lilac sun
I The trees were grey and cold and
very still.
There was no breath at all; time’s work was
The *ve I low flowers grew white upon the
hill.
(I heard a quiet weeping in the room.
Feet moved on tiptoe; hushed taint voices
came . ,
Out of far places; and a purple gloom
Hung like a shadow while they breathed
my name.)
We laid the day upon a saffron sheet,
And that on poles and bore linn hence
away, , , .
Two shouldering the head and two the feet,
To where his yellow grave was made in
clay.
(I heard the even tramp on board, on stair.
On gravel and the grass that muffled
sound....-
"Dust unto dust,” I said; “there will be
prayer,
And cords and spades and rest below the
ground.”)
Slowly the mourners went beside the trees
With pomp of silence till the word was
said.
“Whose funeral?” asked the stranger; and
the bees
Moaned a low answer: “The good day is
dead.”
(I saw her lift her veil: I felt her tears.
Dear heart, you loved him, for he loved
our love;
But there are other days of other years....
And yet her eyes wept sorrow from above.)
We pressed the clay and shaped a naked
mound.
The parting mourners had so much to say.
Up from the read a light and laughing sound
Crept through the trees about the grave of
day.
(But I, because he was my friend, stayed on
And dreamed I saw again his shining face,
And heard Jiis sweet winds breathing. How
he shone
Till this great darkness fell upon the
place.)
Darkness. . . .for day was buried. Let it be.
Such black-robed silence holds not tryst
with fear.
The ground is murmurous with memory....
I think. I think the great white dawn is
near.
N.S.W.
DAYID MCKEE WRIGHT.
The Mangroves.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DUDLEY and Norton had been mates
from boyhood. Born in different
countrysides, they had joined com-
pany, as one plank joins another on quiet
waters. They grew to be so necessary to
each other that one being absent the other
felt a sudden weakness within him, as
though his right arm had gone lame. Thus
it was with them when they came to Sickle
Beach, and, settling down in an old hut
among the honeysuckles, became timber-
getters, oyster-gatherers and fishermen.
Sickle Beach, white and even, lay on the
south side of a wide bay, and on the north
side straggled a little town which provided
them with their market. To this town in
an old lugger, which had risen and fallen
with the tides of 20 years, they sailed once
a week, carrying their loads of rugged-
barked she-oak, their bags of oysters and, in
the mullet season, their hauls of fish,
smoked and dried and fit for a king’s palate.
Brown-armed, big-muscled, bare-legged,
they went about their business in the little
town clad only in hat and shirt and short-
cut trousers, caring little for any man’s
favor and less for his frown. So long as
each stood right in the other’s eyes they
were indifferent as to what the rest of the
world might think, or say, or do. There was
one man, however, whom they did not like,
not knowing for a long time why they did
not like him. This was Taunton, the master
of the town school, a fellow of fine ways
and city rearing. Then there was another
person, a girl, whom they did like, and grew
to like more and more, till their liking gave
place to something disconcerting, something
stronger and more absorbing than they cared
to confess not only to each other but even
to their inward selves. Carrie James, the
daughter of the local storekeeper, was the
disturbing factor. Tall, lithe, strong, it was
not on their first visit to her father’s store,
nor on their second, that they became con-
scious of the fact that she was good to look
on.
What the girl thought of them neither
knew because she gave no indication, by
either look or word, that she thought of them
at all. Liking men’s company, as is the way
of wholesome womanhood, she laughed, and
teased, and joked with them. But for neither
of them was there that light in her eyes,
that intonation in her voice, which means so
much. Hungering for this intimacy of eye
or voice, they would hang about the shop
long after the things they needed were par-
celled out for their taking. Usually they
cited the wind or the tide as an excuse for
their delay. When Taunton appeared on the
scene, however, they left hurriedly, his
arrival seeming to set right the wind and
tide.
It was a good, clean, wholesome life they
lived, that life of theirs on Sickle Beach.
Up before the sun they swam, boated and
fished in the still, thrilling waters. With the
sun a man’s height in the sky, and the
butcher-birds and magpies filling the scrub
around them with surely the finest bird-
melody in the world, they shouldered their
axes and saws and went out among the she-
oaks and honeysuckles and box-trees. There
with no man driving them they worked with
a will, putting the keen steel into the wood,
and piling fallen timber, log on log, till their
backs ached and every nerve cried “Enough!”
Times there were, the moon favoring them,
when they launched their skiff and pulled
away to the mangroves, gathering oysters
by the bagful, and asking no man’s leave.
Toachers and axemen and fishermen, they
took what nature sent them with a glad
heart. . ..
This was the way they lived till they canm
to know and care for the girl with brown
eyes that were like a forest pool, and a face
that was like a picture. Then, with her to
think of, they went about their work with
only half a ' heart in it. When Dudley
visioned the future, it was no longer with
Norton as an essential figure in the fore-
ground. When Norton planned for the days
to be, it was not Dudley that stood fore-
most in his dreams. A power stronger than
the mateship which had clamped them
together was prising them apart.
One day, taking fuel to town with a lead-
ing wind fresh from the sea to speed them,
they left Sickle Beach. Because each man
knew that his eyes told too much he looked
anywhere but in the other’s face. But look
where they would they found nowhere that
fine, fresh, enthusiastic interest in the things
around them that had always been theirs.
From the ti-trees on the shore came the
ceaseless song of the cicadas, sounding far
out over the water, shrill no longer as when
near at hand, but made pleasantly soothing
by the distance that intervened. Because
ttiese things seemed to voice the spirit of
the trees, they had often ceased their talk
to listen to them. But now, with other food
for thought. Norton in the bow and Dudley
at the tiller, did not heed their song. To
the left and right of their boat acres of pil-
chards fretted the surface of the bay ; gorged
gaunets, too surfeited to dive, lazily flutter-
ing above them. Before the girl came to set
their world awry they had often planned to-
gether how they would open a cannery and
put this harvest of the sea into the markets
of the city. Here, they had told each other,
was food fit and sufficient to feed a continent
going to waste season after season, and
with the help of a little luck and much
labor in the good times to be they would
profit by it. But now, their boat listing over
in the breeze, her sails drawing full, neither
of them gave the matter a thought.
Reaching the township they unloaded their
cargo and stacked it. This done, brushing
the bark-dust from his bare arms, Dudley
said : “I’m going up to the store to get the
things we want.”
Norton, bending over the toomost log,
straightened up and faced him. The time
had come for each man to look the other
level in the eyes.
“And to see the girl?” he said.
Dudley’s teeth clenched ; a tenseness took
charge of his muscles. “And what in Hell’s
name has that got to do with you, anyway?”
he answered.
Norton turned away, gazing out across the
wide stretch of waters, but noticing nothing
of their beauty. It was the first time that a
cross word had ever passed between them,
and he stood appalled, looking down into the
chasm which threatened to divide them.
When he turned to Dudley again he said no-
thing, and Dudley went away, defiance in
the set of his head and the carriage of his
shoulders.
Later he saw them together at the door
of the store, the girl smiling and happy, and
Dudley smiling and happy, too. It seemed,
looking over all the times ne had met and
spoken with her, that she had never been
this way with him. Always something of
reserve, something of aloofness had charac-
terised her attitude. As he watched them
a coldness that was colder than the chill
of ice swept through him, and he heard him-
self cursing Dudley. At that moment it
seemed to him that the man he had been
had died, and that another wore his clothes
and stood in his place.
Later in the afternoon, as their boat sned
towards Sickle Beach, Dudley at the tiller
talked and sang and laughed, like a man
who has just heard the best news in the
world. Norton, not wishing him to discern
the hatred that had come into being, pre-
tended to fall in witn his mood and be eay
with him. But it was a hard task that Nor-
ton had set himself, and a wearying one.
Nevertheless, he contrived to appear at ease,
and as they bowled along, they sang the old
songs that they had sung so often together
on track, in camp and shearing shed.
Afterwards, as they sat at tea. Norton,
leaning over the table, said to Dudley: “You
put it to her?”
And Dudley, lifting his arms, raised his
eyes, his face lighting up, answered • “I
did.”
“And she agreed?” Norton wondered at
the calmness in his own voice.
“Yes—or, at least, nearly. Bill. She told
me to watch and wait, and that I’d know
to-morrow. But she warmed up and smiled
so much when she spoke that I knew it
was as good as a straight-out yes. Girls
don’t say things straight out, but they can’t
hide how they feel. It gets into their eyes,
and it got into hers, and it’s made me bran’-
new. Bill.”
He lit his pipe, leant back against the wall
and miffed hugely.
“She spoke of you, too, Bill.” he went on.
“She said we were such mates that she never
thought we cared to part from one another.
But I said you didn’t mind —that you were
always for my good—and she laughed and
said she liked you for that, and it was a
nity there wasn’t more mates in the world.
It’s a big thing that’s going to happen to
me. Bill, and when it’s all fixed up I’ll bor-
row a grip of your hand.”
Norton nodded ; he could not trust himself
to speak. He was afraid that the deadliness
which possessed him would hiss out of his
tones.
In the afterglow they launched their skiff,
and pulled along the beach towards the man-
groves that darkened the distant shoreline.
In the scrub the last butcher-bird’s song
had sunk to silence, and the cicadas had
gone to sleep. In the stillness of the evening
the mosquitoes came up in clouds, driving
the cattle out of the scrub and down into the
shore waters of the bay. where they stood
belly-deep in the gleaming topaz tide.
The tide suiting and the moon being nigh
full, it was a good night for o.vstering. In
the bottom of the boat lay a couple of
sugar-bags, and two pairs of gauntlets with
which to cover their hands when they took
hold of a cluster of oysters and wrenclmd
it free. Some days before they had dis-
covered a stretch of mangroves which pro-
(Continued on newt poye.)


E,T
Get at the cause of your illness,
it is a waste of time trying to cure the
symptoms when the cause is deep-rooted.
If you suffer with backache or weak
back, headache, nervousness, gravel,
urinary disorder, irregular action of the
heart, dizziness, retching, pale com-
plexion, etc., stop and think. “What
causes my trouble?” “Why am I ill?”
Let us tell you. These are symptoms of
kidney trouble. You may have only one
of these symptoms and your neighbor
another, for kidney trouble affects differ-
ent people differently. But at the first
sign of anything wrong with your health
find out the cause, and treat the cause.
Nearly every ill “the flesh is heir to”
is due to disordered kidneys. There-
fore, when you don’t feel as well as
you ought, look after your kidneys—
give them help. Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills are special kidney help.
They cure every ill of the kidneys and
bladder, and are perfectly safe for all,
men and women, old and
young.
Every Picture
Tells a Story.
£
s s
SST'
m
m
m
m
m
ms
m
1
m
m
S
m
I
V
p
BACKACHE AND KIDNEY
TROUBLE.
TWO SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED.
Mrs. H. Vincent, 65 Union Street, Newtown,
Sydney, says: “A member of my family having
been cured of a bad attack of disordered kidneys by
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, it is with pleasure
I, recommend this remedy to other sufferers. Pre-
vious to taking Doan’s Pills he was in a very poor
state of health, complaining constantly of awful
pains in his back, which prevented him from moving
about freely during the day, and spoiling his rest
at night. He was also subject to dizzy turns, and
felt tired and languid, having no energy for
anything. After trying various kidney remedies
without deriving any benefit he was advised to
take Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and he acted
on the advice straight away. He soon had reason
to thankful for the advice, for by the time he
had finished one bottle he felt ever so much better
and four bottles made a perfect cure. Twelve
months have elapsed since then, and he is still well,
a fact that proves Doan’s Pills cure to stay cured.”
Mr. Jas. Wilson, 17 Little Buckingham Street,
Sydney, says: “For a long time I suffered torture
from backache and kidney trouble. The pains in
my back were very severe, and I have been so bad
that I could not attend to my work, as every move-
ment caused positive torture. The kidney secretions
were affected, being thick and cloudy, and contain-
ing a red .sediment. I w’as also subject to dizzy
feelings and could not sleep properly at night.
Nothing I took seemed able to give me any perma-
nent relief, but one day when I was feeling very
bad I heard good reports of Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, so I sent for some, and after taking
seven bottles I was cured. This remedy not only
banished the backache but strengthened and toned
up .my kidneys and improved my general health.
It is twm years since I was cured and I have had
no trouble with my kidneys since.”
Mr. Wilson confirms the above six years later:
“I am still well and have had no return of backache
• L ’-~”ble since Doan's Pills cured me
eight years ago.”
gf
ƒ
Backache
Kidney
g
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from Foster-
McClellan Co., 15 Hamil-
ton Street, Sydney.
imsed a better harvest than any thev
ha ft yet exploited, and towards this thev
pulled. In an hour they came to it. The
day had died out completely, and moonlight,
white and clear, flooded the still scene. a m\r
boat shoaled, and tucking their trousers
high on their thighs they got out of her
and made their way towards the mangroves,
following a lane that at high tide would be
turned into a shallow, mullet-haunted creek.
Although they knew they poached they
moved without caution. The owner of
the leases, a Greek, they regarded with
robust contempt. On one occasion, prowling
through the thicket, he had come upon Nor-
ton, holding him up with a levelled gun, and
threatening to shoot him. But Dudley, com-
ing up from behind at the right moment, had
made the occasion good by taking the Greek
by the throat and disarming him. And then
together they had lifted him and ducked
him as a warning against future rashness,
nor which the Greek, scooping the black
mud from his mouth and eyes and ears
had cursed them with tierce and alien curses’
As they left him they laughed back at him!
plot (UCek went <)ff in cold fui'Y to plan and
•As Dudley and Norton lost sight of the
Jit waters of the bay, the white branches of
the mangroves, picked out oy the moonlight,
seemed like something that belonged rather
to death than to life. Here weirdness
reigned—weirdness that invited and repelled.
Other men, new to the experience, would
Imre hiirried from the place; but Dudley
and Norton, although they had not grown
used to it, for no man ever grows used to
night in the mangroves, had lost their fear
or it. I heir bags on their shoulders, they
jiloughed knee-deep through' the mud, Dudley
in the lead, and Norton following. As he
looked on the weird, many-rooted mangroves,
with their unholy light and their uncanny
darkness, it was curious that Norton should
be flunkin'* it was a fitting place tor a man
to die in.
There was no sound in the still place,
except, indeed, such sounds as seem to belong
to silence, and make it evident. Now it
was the short, sharp click of a pippy, closing
his valves at their approach; at another
time the lap, lap of the tide amongst
the mangrove roots. Sometimes they sank
thigh-deep in the mud before their feet found
the sandy bottom.
. was a strange thought that took posses-
sion of Norton—that the place was a good
I*l ace for a man to die in. It was a thought
that would not leave him, that made his
teeth clench and his sinews stiffen. To-
night there would be a fight in the man-
groves, and only one man would come out
of them. If it were himself, well and good •
the gad was worth the effort. If it were
i bid ley v well and good, too ; he would get the
?irl Norton lengthened his stride, and then
Dudley gave a great cry and sank in the mud.
Norton paused instantly, drawing himself
back, as a man does who conies ‘ suddenly
f,°. th f, , ed S e ? f . , a Precipice. Amazed that
rins thing, which had never happened be-
fore, should happen now when it most would
serve him, he watched Dudley floundering
and sinking in the mud. Inch by inch he
sank, his hands outstretched. Now lie was
hip-deen. now waist-deep. In a little he
would be lip-deep.
Dudley spoke, his voice hoarse. “The
damn Greek fixed this up,” he said. “There
seems to be no bottom to it. I’ll borrow
a gnp of your hand, Bill.”
Norton remembered the moment when he
had heard that phrase before, and Ins jaw
hardened.
“Dudley,” he said. “I can’t help you. I
want that gird myself.”
A cry that was half-curse, half-sob broke
from Dudley. “Gawd, Bill, you don’t mean
that, do you?”
Dudley had sunk to his armpits now, and
his face, because of the white terror on it,
fascinated Norton.
t “It was up to one of us to die,” said
Norton. “When I came in here I meant
that only one of us would leave the man-
groves alive. It’s your luck —bad luck, but
your luck all the same.”
And then, strangely enough, as Norton
watched Dudley sinking inch by inch, he
remembered nights by track and river, nights
in the mulga and the saltbush, when he
stirred from his sleep, and, looking down
at the man at his side, saw the moonlight
shining, as it shone now, on his face. And
something came out of the wide loneliness of
the Bush and laid compelling hands upon
him.
“Here, Dud,” he said, “take hold !”
The man, sunk now tt> his armpits, reached
out an arm. “Good old Bill,” he said.
It was a man’s work, and a strong man’s
work, to extricate Dudley from the thick,
holding mud; but when it was done they
went down to the boat and pulled home, the
hate having gone out of Norton’s heart and
something bigger even than the love of a girl
growing in the heart of Dudley.
Next morning Dudley sad to Norton:
“Let’s go over to town. I want to tell that
girl something.”
They went, and standing on the threshold
of the store he spoke to the girl, the blood
coming up into his face as he spoke. “I’m
sorry, Miss Carrie,” he said, “but now I
don’t want to marry you. There’s Bill here,
he’s my mate and it wouldn’t be fair to him.”
The girl had been turning a ring on her
finger. This she held up so that they both
might see it.
“This is from Mr. Taunton.” she laughed.
“And now you may both go and be mates
for ever.”
RODERIC QUINN.
The Typical Digger.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
other week the editor called me
into his office.
“Mr. Jobkins,” he said, “we want
you to do a special for the New Year num-
ber. Go out and find the typical Digger.
Interview him. See whether he’s settled
down yet.”
“I know,” I replied. “The Digger’s New
Year —llow Our Heroes are Making a Name
for Themselves in Business. Changing the
sword for the pen—and perhaps a photo of
a trench with grass growing over it.”
“Good!” said the editor. “Get busy.”
I approached Miss Jones, who chews choco-
lates m our office and makes a noise on the
typewriter occasionally.
“Phoebe,” I said, “I want to find the
typical .Logger. Tne sort you see holding up
the flag and standing in a protective attituue
over the body of a comrade on the cover
of the illustrated weeklies. Won’t you think
of one amongst your friends?”
Phoebe tapped her teeth with an office
envelope anu ions,tiered.
"1 know,” she said. "The very boy. He
won the Military Medal for Capturing an
enemy trench.”
“Where is he?” I interrupted her.
“He works in MacDougails store. He’s
fair, clean-shaven and has beautiful blue
eyes.”
To MacDougall’s then I hastened, and in
my hurry stumbled over the step. I was
assisted to my feet by an immaculate shop-
walker.
“What can we do for you, sir? Shirts?
Ties? Handkerchiefs? We have a special
line in colored hosiery.”
“Why,” I said, “you're the very man I
want. I’m from the Weekly Budget. How
do you like being in civvies? Do you feel a
longing to rush out with a sword, ' looking
for slaughter? Do you often recall the days
of Gallipoli and France?”
“Hush, sir,” lie answered nervously;
“here’s the manager approaching. I’m quite
settled down now. Yes, I’m thinking of
going in for raising chickens, but I hate the
idea of the bush.”
“Ah,” I said, “you feel the Anzac spirit
and wish to be independent and start out on
your own?”
“As you please, sir,” he replied. “But I’m
not sure about the poultry farm. It’s so
beastly dirty. But you must excuse me. The
manager’s observing me.”
And he hastened with a courtly bow to-
wards an old lady who was inquiring for
the furniture department.
Sadly I made my way to the street. Then
I thought of Bill. Good old Bill, who feared
neither man nor beast, a real son of the soil,
a typical Australian! Bill was staying in
the city, and I went to his address. As I
walked along I recalled how Bill had cleaned
up six military policemen in Cairo, and had
threatened to boot his colonel because he
had pulled Bill no for not saluting.
I knocked at Bill’s door. A buxom lady
with an Engl’sh complexion opened it.
“Is Bill in?” I inquired.
“No,” she said, “he’s out. What do you
want? I’m his wife.”
“I—l just wanted him to have a drink
with me,” I said very lamely.
“Bill doesn't drink,” she snapped and
slammed the door in my face.
Gut in the street again with my mission
still unaccomplished I headed for the pub,
pausing on the way to refresh my memory
with pictures of soldiers in fighting attitudes
displayed in shop windows. I entered the
hotel. I thought perhaps I had been going
the wrong way about it. To find the typical
Digger I should stop the first one I met.
It was just in front of the pub door that I
got him. He was wearing a returned sol-
dier’s badge.
“Come and have a drink?” I said.
He locked at me carefully.
“Well,” he drawled, after thinking it over
“I don’t usually drink with strangers tint
you seem all right.’’
We went inside. To make it feel less like
an interview I leaned on the counter and lit
a cigarette. He placed four lingers on the
counter and ordered lemonade.
“Back at your old job?” I commenced
after noisily drinking my beer and spitting
on the floor, to put him at his ease,
“No, I'm not,” he returned. “The er
business I w’as in is too casual. Besides
handling bottles one frequently cuts one’s
hands.”
He looked at his palms thoughtfully. I
gazed on in silence and despair. Where
would I find him, my ideal Digger?
I was startled from my wondering by a
loud noise from the other side of the bar.
Looking around I was just in time to see a
bottle w r hiz over the head of a terrified
barman, and smash on the wall behind. The
culprit’s hand held another bottle, but two
men grabbed him. His hair was long and his
chin w r as weak. He cursed well. Then I
noticed his soldier’s badge. At iast! I had
found him, the care-free, unconquerable
Digger.
Somehow’ his face seemed familiar.
“And what was your part in the Great
War?” I said, feeling for my notebook.
“Me?” he replied. “Strike me, but you
blokes wanter know every thing.
But if you must have it I went awmv witli
the Y.M.C.A.”
“H’m,” said the editor, when I told him,
“it’s all just as I expected.”
“What did you expect?” I asked.
“The unexpected,” he said.
J. A. ANDERSON.
Pot Pourri.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In lavender and rose, ah, let me keep
My youth’s sweet dreams when unto realms
of sleep
They steal from restless quests and wander-
ings
Filled with the high adventure of such things!
Perhaps, one day, it may be I shall find
A few blown leaves the chilling Winter wind
Has left me, I who now am Summer’s guest
Loaded with flowers that her hands have
pressed.
If it must be that I, changed, calm, and still,
Can unmoved contemplate the wondrous
thrill
That trembles when o’er blossoms zephyrs
pass,
And on their petals dew, like rainbowed
glass,
Reflects the exquisite pale lilac air-
That breathes its truth and beauty every-
where —
Then let me take that which to-day I hold,
Place it in lavender and cloth-oLgold.
That in the wilderness when Youth is lost
I yet may meet them, like frail perfumes
tossed,
Sensing them breathe their olden ecstasy,
Deep from a scented bowl of pot pourri!
N.S.W.
LOLA GORNALL.


I
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
. iency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
S3IVM '$ N ‘JLS3M QMOONOO
nj
s**Hf
This is a Food-Drink (Milk,
Wheat, and Malt) which should
find a place in every home. It
has incomparable qualities, and
is an ideal standby in the outly-
ing districts where shops are
distant. It keeps for years, i 3
made in a moment, no cooking,
and is always satisfactory.
HO RUCK'S
MALTED MILK
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
Used the
World Over
f
ƒg
MOTOR
...CARS
GOOD LOOKS
A good clear complexion has much to do with
success in life, especially for women - and for
men too. It appeals and fascinates
more than features. You can
always have “good looks”
if you take Carter's
Little Liver Pills, for
the real source of a
healthy and spotless
face is an active
Liver. They cure
Biliousness, Con-
stipation, Sallow
Skin, Pimples and
CARTER'S
W ittle
I IVER
flpj^s
Blackheads. In fact they make you better
looking. Safe for children.
Small Pill-Small Dasa-Stnall J»rloa.
GENUINE must
bear signature
f
Ihe Standard Remedy which has outlived the CentorK*.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
Tlje Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
LTsod sjjioc 1596. C U R E S Write for Rooter
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT FALLING EYELASHES, WLAK SIGHT
GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London. England
Insist on “Singleton's”—refuse all substitutes.
cnslarsd
c al'l?ngJ
ƒgf
ƒ
To the Tourist, Scientist, Investor
and, with a hundred voices from her millions
of- acres, to the Man in search of Land.
Free Information on all subjects
available at once on receipt of this coupon.
Naim?-- .
Address___ '
Queensland Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Brisbane.
S.B.
'SCaSJS.
-- - - fry — ~W\,
JDENBY
MOTOR LORRXSS
The Tie That Binds Factory
to Overseas User.
g
VERSEAS service is vitally important
to the lorry user. In this, as in all
other details that contribute to make
satisfied users, the Denby factory spares
neither pains nor expense to maintain as
efficient service abroad as at home.
Denby lorries will get on with surprising
lack of service attention. They are assembled
with the greatest care, the minutest part
bearing the closest scrutiny.
Load capacities: 1,2, 2|, 3{, 5 tons.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY.
Export Department, Singer Building, New York, U.S.A.
Cable Address: “Dentrux.”
Tht jVUdiciae for You
must possess certain advantages without which it would hardly commend
itself to your confidence. It must be perfectly safe under all circumstances.
It must be mild in its action but none the less efficacious on that account.
It must be, par excellence, a family medicine, that is, suitable for
old and young of both sexes and be freely obtainable in town or
country. It must be easy to take, regular and reliable in its curative
effects and possess a great and genuine record of success. Such a
medicine is Beecham’s Pills which still hold, and will continue to hold,
the highest position in popular favour. It is very interesting, after so
many years service, still -to find Beecham’s Pills “at the top of the
tree ” among digestive remedies. They arc everywhere acknowledged
to be unrivalled in the treatment of such troubles as biliousness, sick
headache, heartburn, constipation, giddiness, failing appetite, poorness
of blood and a general run-down condition. If you are in any way si
sufferer from digestive ailments take
Beccham’s fill;
BEECHAM'S PILLS are specially suitable for xemales ol all ages*
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10£d (36 pills), 1/1 £ (56 pills) & 2/9(168 pills
BMC
»
A SPLENDID RABBIT RIFLE.
JSL
2 2
SHORT
MODEL 24A, .22 Calibre, Solid Breech, Hammerlessr Easily taken apart
and assembled, Chambered to fire the Ordinary Rim-fire .22 Cartridge.
MAGAZINE HOLDS 11 CARTRIDGES, all of which can be fired as
quickly as trigger can be pulled, without lowering Rifle from the shoulder.
Fitted with Safety Lock. Full directions attached to each rifle.
AVeight, 4:11b. price £0 net. Postage or Carriage extra.
Obtainable Retail from the following Sydney Firms:
MARCUS CLARK, LTD.
COWLES & DUNN.
GRACE BROTHERS, LTD.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD.
J. P. KNIGHT.
F. LASSETTER & 00., LTD.
NOCK & KIRBY, LTD.
MICK SIMMONS, LTD.
Also from Country Storekeepers.
WHOLESALE ONLY from following Sydney Firms:
ALDERSON’S, LTD. J. P. KNIGHT. .
JOHN BROOMFIELD, LTD. NOYES BROTHERS, LTD.
PAUL & GRAY, LTD.
Australian Representative for the Manufacturers
D. D. BRYANT, Box 686 G.P.0., Melbourne.
GENERAL CATALOGUE MAILED FREE ON REQUEST.
SWAN SELF-FILLER
NOW ON SALE.
Fills with a Flip of the Finger.
PRICE 15/-
WITHOUT CLIP.
WITH CLIP - - 16/6.
USE
SWAN INK
SWAN
INK.
w
n
USE
wAsm
SWAN INK.
SPECIAL FEATURES:
LADDER FEED
SWAN NIB
Safety Chamber Cap
Certain Lever Action,
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
Made by MABIE, TODD & CO.,
London, New York, Paris, Sydney, Toronto.
safeguard your health
OtJCoHis
CMorotot
The Original and Only Gennine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
nod in the Cough of BKOfrCHITIS ami
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVEIUSH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM,
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery,
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, I/S, SJ-, ah.
Made in England.
f
|A; each
AV f " p °st Free
Thousands in Use.
(Patented^
ƒ
gf
0 /■
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
ƒ
simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Inought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE,


MANGROVIT
LEATHER
LTI
MANGROVITE LEATHER BELTING
ENSURES EFFICIENCY
Bo far as transmission of power—that most
important factor of production—is con-
cerned. Every power-plant owner should,
for his own sake, get acquainted with the
virtues of “Mangrovite” without delay.
Mang'rovite Belting' Ltd.
(Charles Ludowiol, Managing: Director),
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
W. Australia: Gibbs, Bright &Co., Fremantle
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
Victoria and Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co.,
Melbourne.
THE SUPREME TEST.
Actual service is the supreme test of a circular saw, and it also
proves that
“An Eagle on a Globe” Circular Saws
intensify, efficiency and reduce operating costs. They hold their
cutting points longer than other saws. Made, in fifteen patterns of
teeth, from 4in. diameter. Standard gauges and holes.
Prompt attention assured. Address inquiries to Desk “A.”
THE EAGLE & GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD,
Makers of Ultra. Capital High-Speed Steel!
379-381 Kent St, SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe St, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Rd., Kaljoorlie
Cliff St., Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews,
Brisbane
Paul & Cray Ltd., Newcastle.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide.
E oM *.a v
m
Dick’s Batata Belting
for True Economy.
TRADE
MARK
nn^
S OR
32BES
Sole Agents: Registered
JAMES HARDIE& COY. I^TD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY,
’Phone 8456 (6 Lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Newoastle Agents—Paul & Cray Ltd.
' ■;
I
K
&
&
-v
iP
***"*':
t; v 'Xh
i v&M '■'., S
* « *
£ ■.** «
r? *
&
■
w
s!
Here is a Simple and Non-
Technical Publication that You
Can’t Afford to he Without.
It is much more than a mere Catalogue because it
gives you
INFORMATION ABOUT SPARKING PLUGS
that you really should know—information that you have
been seeking for, probably, and couldn’t get. In its
40 MAGNIFICENTLY ILLUSTRATED PAGES
it directs you
How to Choose a Sparking Plug.
The Advantages of Porcelain as an Insulator.
The Advantages of Mica as an Insulator.
Why American Car Engines are better suited with
one type of plug, and English and Continental
Engines with another type, and Aero Engines with
a different type to any.
It minutely describes the productions of
THE LODGE, SPHINX, REFLEX, CHAMPION, A.C.,
“ and RAJAH FACTORIES.
In short, it is doubtful if there is one such similar Comprehensive Booklet published in the world.
To the GARAGE MAN it is a godsend. Td the CAR OWNER it is indispensable, and IT IS
FREE TO ALL FOR THE ASKING.
Shall we mail you one To-day?
g
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
THE HOUSE FOR MOTOR ENGINEERS’ SUPPLIES.
.
ivnw-ix
m
!///’.
m.
m
m
—to the Pastoralist.
Here is an everyday fact, proving how the famous Wolseley Sheep-shearing
Machines s —the most profitable you can use—pay for themselves and represent
all profit to the owners.
If 700 sheep are shorn with Wolseley Machines, instead of by hand,
£22/10/- is gained—the value of the additional bale clipped. So that the extra
wool gained by shearing say 2100 sheep will more than pay for a Two-stand
plant. And the work will be done better and more quickly.
Apply to ohr nearest branch for a demonstration.
DALGETY AND CO., LTD., Australasian Agents.
“A Fan for
Every
8 EX
a
The popularity of the ” Buffalo” is largely due to the growing recog-
nition of tile numerous and varied applications in wiiicli they are useful.
For fIODERN SHOP AND FACTORY EQUIPMENT they are particularly adapted for—
BLOWlNG—Supplying blast for Cupolas, Forges, Furnaces, Forced Draft, etc.
VENTILATING AND COOLING Shops, Factories, Engine Rooms, Workshops, Laundries, etc.
EXHAUSTING Steam, Smoke, Gas, Fumes, etc.; Shavings and Refuse from Woodworking Plants; and
Dust from Abrasive and Buffing Wheels.
Estimates for SPECIAL HEATING AND DRYING PLANTS.
Write for Full Descriptive Catalogue.
v
*
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St.,
DESTRUCTORS FOR HOSPITALS.
The “GUTHRIDG” Fire Brick Type—Nos. 3, 4 and 5 are now
a standard accessory at all well-equipped hospitals.
Every kind of waste, dangerous or offensive matter can be speedily and economically
consumed without nuisance or trouble.
Special grates are fitted if required, to deal with sawdust or other matter liable to
pass the grates.
Full particulars, lists of users, including Military, Red Cross and Private Hospitals, and
Prices on application.
Sole Manufacturers: —
N. GUT
• f
ENGINEERS,
10 George St, Camperdown, N.S.W.
\
r .3
