

—-The Spirit of Age and Wisdom
R. a. WATKINS «SC CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
N S W- MONT de PIETE D & I C9T LIMITED-
-74' 5L. ,74. Sydney.
-ADVANCES-
min dgjfgj
....mil
ON ALL CLASSES
OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION
lllliniM
iiimiiin. gfh
'' frj/>cks<3f 215-l7Swanston SUlelb.. 40 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
29 King St, Newcastle. !97*Castlereaqh St., & 159 George St.,West, Sydney.
CAPITAL &200.000
Joseph W.Hill,
General Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.SiW. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
BIG GHIEF
Oil Engines.
w
Head and
Shoulders
above all
others.
Sizes:
1 X h-P-
-to 8 h.p.
Stationary
and
Portable.
Order One TO-DAY,
CASH OH EASY TERMS.
R. L. Scrutton 8 Co. Ltd.,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
‘Are the Best
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
J
HA N S E N’S
unket
TABLETS
por INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Used the
World Over
53i
m
MOTOR
...CARS
Oil P
sn
i
1011
in
ms
Stops iron from rusting
. Old iron roofs are made as serviceable as new when coated with
Pabco Paint.
This rust-resisting compound is impervious to moisture, covers over
rust and prevents further corrosion, gives a splendid appearance,
and is exceptionally durable.
Pabco Paints have been severely tested by all Government Depart-
ments, who are some of our biggest buyers.
Write for descriptive Booklet, post free.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince. Australasian Manager). Challis House. Sydney.
■
5.Ki;
L? dfh
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines.
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks etc.
The Old Gaelic Whisky
Agents ORME, KEIGWIN (8b CO. LTP.i SYDNEY.
“A.W.” “T.Y.R”
“A.W. PREMIER.”
A
RMSTRONG, WHITWORTH.
HIGH-SPEED DRILLS.
HIGH-SPEED STEEL.
Sole Australian Representatives: *
Gilbert Lodge 8 Co. Ltd.,
115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Inter-State Stocking Agents:
A. SCOTT & CO.. 164 Edward Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, Etd., AVorands Bldgs., Grenfell Street
CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.), Ktd., 894 Hay Street, Perth.
'
Adelaide.
Manufadured by Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH fa CO. LTD., Manchester, England
.
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay.
f f*
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2104.
Thursday, June 10, 1920.
Price 9d.
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W,, Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


p T ?oon new lirr ARY catalogue
for 1920 is now ready, and will be posted
free to any address on application.
DYMOCIvS BOOK ARCADE. LTD
~orge Street. Sydney. Tele. 6431.—Advt.
“MORE DIGGERETTES.”
A New Selection of Jokes and
Stories by CECIL HARTT,
Australia’s Most Popular
Black-and-White Artist.
You enjoyed the first book. Get the second before they are out of print.
The Aussie says: “Cecil is the pne artist who knows how to draw a real Digger. The others try to."
Mr. Hartt’s publications have found 100,000 buyers. Probably an Australian record.
ALL BOOKSELLERS 1/-, POSTED 1/I|.
Publisher: A, C, SANDFORD, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
w
Waterm2Jis(Mfount<\mPen
the busy man’s choice
Busy men, the world over, not only use
Waterman’s Ideal, but regard it as indis-
pensable, and send glowing tributes to its
reliability and efficiency. Many of them
have had their Waterman’s Ideals in
constant use for upwards of thirty years.
If you , want a pen that will serve you
for life, insist on Waterman’s Ideal.
Three Types :
“ Self-Filling,” “ Safety,” and “Regular.*
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere■
*
L. G. SLOAN, Ltd. <£©rtter
London, England.
Australia : Harold D. Dixon,
105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
This Week’s Toilet Hints
4
INTERESTING SELECTIONS FROM THE WORLD'S SMARTEST BEAUTY
ARTICLES—SIMPLE RECIPES MOST EFFECTIVE.
HOW TO DISCARD AN UNSIGHTLY
COMPLEXON.
“Toilet Club Notes.”
llow many women exclaim as they behold
their ugly complexion in th 6 mirror, “If I
could only tear off this old skin !” And, do
you know, it is now possible to do that very
thing? Not to actually remove the entire
skin all of a sudden; that would be too
heroic a method and painful, too, I imagine.
The worn-out cuticle comes off in such tiny
particles, and so gradually—requiring about
ten days to complete the - transformation—it
doesn’t hurt a bit. Day by day the beautiful
complexion underneath comes forth. Mar-
vellous! No. matter how muddy, rough,
blotchy or aged your complexion, you can
surely discard it by this simple process.
Just get some ordinary inercolised wax at
your chemist’s, apply nightly like cold cream,
washing it off in the mornings.
WHY HAVE GREY HAIR
When a simple, old-fashioned and harmless recipe
will correct it?
Few people know that grev hair is not a
necessary feature, of age—that it can be
avoided without resorting to hair dyes. A
very old, home-made remedy will turn the
hair back to a natural color in a few days.
It is only necessary to get from the chemist
two ounces of concentrate of tammalite and
m\ x it with three ounces of bay rum. Apply
tnis simple lotion to the hair for a few nights
with a small sponge and you will soon have
the pleasure of seeing the greyness disappear.
This recipe is perfectly harmless, is neither
sticky nor greasy, and has given perfect
satisfaction for many generations to those in
possession of the secret.
A STRANGE SHAMPOO.
“Cosy Corner Chats.”
* * * I was much interested to learn
from this young woman with the beautiful
;lossy hair that, she never washes it with
soap or artificial shampoo powders. Instead
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Rnnlt
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
5* GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
RUBY LINDSAY MEMORIAL
VOLUME.
ADMIRERS and Friends of the late
RUBY LINDSAY (Mrs. Will Dyson)
who may be interested in the above book, a
collection of Ruby Lindsay’s finest work,
perfectly produced in a beautiful volume, are
invited to apply to EDWARD DYSON. 75
Mitford Street, St. Ivilda.
she makes her own shampoo by dissolying a
teaspoonful of stallax granules in a cup of
hot water. “I make my chemist get the
stallax for me,” said she. “It comes only
in sealed packages, enough to make up
twenty-five or thirty individual shampoos,
and it smells so good I could almost eat it.”
Certainly this little lady’s hair did look
wonderful even if she has strange ideas of a
shampoo. I am tempted to try the plan
myself. , .
BLACKHEADS INSTANTLY GO.
The new sparkling face-bath treatment, give?
instant relief.
A very simple, harmless and pleasant pro-
cess is now used to remove blackheads and
correct greasiness and large pores .in the
skin. You have only to obtain some tablets
of stymol from the chemist, drop one into
a glass of hot water and bathe the face with
the liquid after the effervescence' has Sub-
sided. The blackheads will then come right
off on the towel. The enlarged pores im-
mediately contract to normal and the greasi-
ness disappears, leaving the skin smooth,
soft and cool and free from blemish. But
to make sure that this desirable result is
permanent, it is advisable to repeat the
treatment several times at intervals of say
about four or five days.
IS POWDER NECESSARY?
“Practical Suggestions.”
I say emphatically, No! There is a simple
lotion which can be easily and cheaply made
at home, and it is at the same time both
effective and beneficial to the complexion.
Cleminite is a splendid substitute for face
powder, which is at the bottom of many
complexion troubles. Get about an ounce
from the chemist, and dissolve in four table-
spoonfuls of water. The result is a fine
clear liquid, which instantly gives the face,
neck or arms that peach-like bloom of
perfect health. There is nothing to equal
it for greasy skins, and the result lasts all
day long under the most trying conditions. [2
EORGE HOTEL.
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
AFRAID OF FOOD.
Sufferers from indigestion very often become faddists as regards their food, and find
themselves in time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet. Hudson’s Eumen-
thoi Jujubes correct acidity of the stomach, and their antiseptic properties present
abnormal fermentation of the food, thus allowing the natural digestive ferments to act,
and if taken regularly after meals they so
improve the digestion that a strict diet be-
comes unnecessary. Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes are most useful to those who suffer
from Heartburn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE— Tins 1/6.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz:—
The Lancet, The Practitioner, etc.
[7
yj
*«»cav •Marm’uYi
wffi
ON
-
The Red Page
The Man in the Singer
According to Milton, the “last infirmity
ot noble mind” is the love of fame; but a
modern writer challenges Milton’s assertion
and declares that it is a bad temper. From
this it is tolerably easy to see that Milton
at the time he wrote “Lycidas” had a pas-
sionate desire for fame and that his modern
reviewer was sufficiently conscious of his bad
temper. Of the latter, outside proof is avail-
able; of the former, conjecture is strength-
ened by the tremendous claim made in the
opening of “Paradise Lost” that the author
-attempts no “middle flight.” All his life he
lias intended to soar into the highest place •
and now, blind, broken and a little weary,
he is going to carry out his intention.
I'ame, m its biggest and best sense, is
still a strong motive; and, knowing that,
we know a great deal about .Miltpu. Nobody
could read Dickens and Lamb without know-
ing that they were both very fond of eating;
nobody could go far into a volume of Tenny-
son without realising the paradox in the
man of a de.sir.e for popular applause and
scholarly exclusion ; nobody could get to grips
with Carlyle and Meredith' without feeling
that these men, for all their desire
to say things, dearly, loved an ocea-
sional theatrical pose in a limelight
ot their own making. All these things
are among the externals and matter
very little; but they are an indication of
something- else which is deeper and more
important. If Pope hit a plain truth when
he said the proper study of mankind is
nian it i* easy to further elaborate the
statement and to assert that nowhere is a
man better studied than in his writing. The
character of the man. his spirit, his out-
look upon life, the size-of his dreitms—they
are all there in the turn Of his sentences
or the hit of his .song. He cannot be dis-
guised ; the X-rays of himself reveal every
secret that, is worth revealing; all the rest
is merely dressing and packing. The bio-
grapher practically always gives a wrong
impression of his victim. The words said
at the breakfast table and the epigram coined
at the club may be utterly false notes; but
there is nothing false about the ink that
shows the workings of a mind. Some years
ago I mentioned to an old and very wis<?
leader of the world the discoveries in Somer-
set House, London, which seemed to show
Detoe as a shameful taker of bribes and
gcneial political trickster. “They may dis*
cover what they Hke,” he said', “but the
writer of Robinson Crusoe’ was an honest
man. He had said the: last word on the
question; there was the old book in which
the man lived for all to see. I don’t know
who put those crooked records in the Somer-
set House pigeonholes; but I am quite sure
they were crooked. .
~ Most of all is this self-revelation true of
the lyric poet. You will find Chaucer readily
enough in the “Canterbury Tales”—a burly,
laughter-loving companion he is, with a sweet.’
iiesli outlook on April fields and an honest
contempt for shams and meretricious shows,
a boon companion with a sure taste in ale :
and a deep place of religious quiet far down
in Ins soul. You can get Edmund Spenser,
though not so easily—a real poet with a
delicious feeling for words, but with a fancy
that far outruns his imagination, a good deal
worried by the attempt to live up to his post
ot courtier and yet with enough vanity to
-attempt the paradoxical task; a good fel-
low v. ith a ready smile and a rather shad-
owed heart, lie makes many delicate grey
lines and is not always successful in resist-
ing the attempt to be professionally witty,
lou could not trust Spenser as you do
Chaucer : but he would have been a very
joyous companion ou an early morning stroll
through the bush. Still, these men are not
lyrists in the best sense. The, knowledge
that you have of them from their works
you can .set down fairly wel> in words; and
Jou can t do that with the pure singer
lx eats and Shelley you know intimately and
well. You know also that hundreds of well-
intentioned biographers and article-writers
have lied pitifully about them both. Just
as a lyric cannot be translated into another
language, so the life expressed in a true
lyric can only be expressed in those words.
-the deeps within deeps are there, in the
choice of language, in the turn of phrase, in
the haunting cadence, in the leap to the
exultant rhyme. No prose at all will say
that.a The whole thing is strangely occult,
cunoushv-suggestive of psychic forces bevond
the bounds of the known; yet the man in the
poet i.s there and you know him. The lvric
reeling goes even farther, for in some sub-
conscious way the man in the poet seems to
know the man in you. A lot of people busily
engaged m table-rapping and other rather
nitde attempts to probe alleged spirit mys-’
teries believe that they are right on the
frontier of a great unknown land. That
™ n ‘ ! .f, was crossed long ago in the only
practical way by the lyric poet. Hundreds
of years' after her death Sappho was in
complete spirit touch with all that really
mattered in Greece; just as really the boy
Neats grown to great soul-stature is in com-
plete touch with something that is deepest
-ind sweetest in a million minds to-dav.
1 here is no explanation of it to be given.
All we know is that the thought of man
■xpressed in words runs to a magic he does
not understand In the phrase of Keats him-
self. it must still “tease us out of thought”
as eternity and infinity and electricity and
a-many other things do; but there'it is.
D. W. M.
Three Who Fell
Reading over the various anthologies of
I’ritish Poets who were killed in the war
you * get at first an impression of sameness.
.?*li a I n ? et i * lO same €n d ! and they seem
at the first hasty glance to be singing the
same song, or telling the same story. But
they are not. In one book. For Remem-
brance, there are. selections from the verses
°t ” mell who were killed in action or died
of wounds. They wrote from the battle-
field. or just before they went, knowing thev
were about to go. I pass over the few
£nown mien like Rupert Brooke, Julian
Grenfell, R. E. Vernede, Professor Kettle
and Wyndham Tennant. For one reason or
another these have been quoted and can-
vassed —the first three because they were
poets apart from the war, Kettle because
he was an Irishman who didn’t like Eng-
land, and Tennant (who only lived to be
19) because he was the son of a lord. Take
three out of the remaining 39 —Leslie Coul-
son, the London journalist; W. N. Hodg-
son, the Oxford don, and son of a bishop;
and C. H. Sorley, the typical adventurer
and soldier. Each had something to say
Worth saying—tremendously worth saying
in view of what was happening and what
they knew was likely to happen.
Leslie Coulson was a promising journalist,
the sort of young man whom the S. M.
Herald would like to get hold of and teach
a proper sense of perspective. The Muse
must have shed a tear or two when he fell
in L ranee ih October. 1!>17. He had pre-
viously been in Gallipoli, had fever in
Egypt, and had several bouts with ill-health
before the doctors let him go to France.
He is one of the men whom you feel certain
would have “arrived. *’ He couldn’t have
helped it. He was so fond of living, so
fond of work'—his own particular work —so
responsive to the breath of everything that
was going. As a story-writer lie had made
an impression on the frightful stolidity of
London itself, and as a writer of verse he
had struggled into a book. In fact, he
wasn’t much behind Rupert Brooke in the
opinion of people who took notice. When
the war came lie marched out to meet
iJestiny with as firm a step as any of them.
i»ut it was harder for him than for most of
the ’others, because he was so intensely a
literary type; he couldn’t quite get a wav
from the pity of it. He was young—and
words and pretty things were so much more
to him than shells <ind machine-gnns. There
is some haunting music in this song of
regret &
Mayhap I shall not walk again
Down Dorset way, down Devon way.
Nor pick a posy in a lane
Down Somerset and Sussex way;
Rut though my bones unshriven rot
In some far-distant, alien spot,
\V hat soul I have shall rest from care
ro know that meadows still are fair
Down Dorset way, down Devon way.
r i S( L n ?M Ch I ol ' . the journalist Coulson. He
duln t like the job, but he did it. He had
r*i ° , Wo J' ds aud could say what tens
of thousands of others felt but couldn’t say.
'!} different class from the second
man, \\. IS. Hodgson. If the tragedy of
one man’s death is greater than another’s, or
if there is one out of a fallen half-million
strangers whom you would like to see sur-
vive, you might pick out Hodgson as the
one. He was in the thick of it at Loos.
He survived that frightful day, or series of
clays, and was sane and strong enough, when
in a rest camp, to write a poem about it—
something that would have been a real
poem it written by a nicely-dressed laureate
strolling about" his suburban garden. Hodg-
son won a Military Cross on the gory battle-
i-ii 3 ust nine months later he was
killed in the Somme offensive of July 1.
l\yo nights before his death he had written
this:—
I that on my familiar hill
Saw with uncomprehending eyes
A hundred of thy sunsets spill
Their fresh and sanguine sacrifice,
Eie the sun swing's his noonday sword
Must say good-bye to all of this:
By all. delights that I shall miss
I Help me to die, O Lord!
It may have been the son of the Bishop
talking in the last two lines. But you call
see what the dominant note is: Not repining
and not complaining; not even asking why
things were so, or why they Wouldn't be
different. Only a request that whatever they
were they should be met in the right way
And.no man ever met them better than did
Hodgson. That is to say, more courageously,
"’cth a more steadfast, unflinching resolve
C. H. Sorley illustrated the third kind
of bravery—bravery with a dash of emula-
tion. Coulson was brave in spite of re-
pimng; Hodgson brave with Spartan
stoicism ; Sorley brave with a skylark’s note
of absolute rejoicing. Of all the millions
who fought in the war and died in the war
Sorley is the man you feel you would like
best to meet in the Shades. If things are
dull down there he would brighten them
up; not by playing the fool or making a fuss,
but just by being there. He was killed in
October, 1915, a fortnight after Loos.
Marching through Northern France he could
warble like this: —
All the hills and vales along
Earth is bursting into song,
And the .singers are the chaps
Who are going to die, perhaps.
Oh, sing, marching. men,
Till the valleys ring again;
Give your gladness to earth’s keeping,
So be glad when you are sleeping! ‘
That is it! You know from Sorley who the
singers are—or who they ought to be. They
are the chaps who are going to die, perhaps.
A mere matter of going to sleep with mother
earth is nothing to worrry about, anyhow.
In fact, it is something to be rather joyful
over. So sang and whistled Sorley; so
smiled he on his way to action, and so he
went on smiling—till they found him on the
field with the smile still on his face.
A. J. B.
Fragments of History
, The loan exhibition held bv the Royal
(Sydney) Australian Historical Society-
May 25-29 —was a remarkable success, both
with respect to the collection gathered to-
gether and the keen interest evinced in it
by the public. At the rate of 6d. a time,
and a similar amount for a catalogue Syd-
ney demonstrated its liking for Australian
history to the extent of just short of £lOO
Considering that this was the first show of
the kind, such a “gate” must be regarded
as eminently satisfactory. It proves
for. one thing, that in the 19 years of
the society’s existence it has done something
of value in educating an Australian senti-
(Continued on page 28.)


vce
VALUE IN DEPENDABLE INCUBATORS
WBSS
===paabWATH?^s
~ Cl ETIfgCTNC UB A
m
THE SUPERIOR,
Superior Incubators.
Opinions differ as to the respective merits of Hot Water
and Hot Air Incubators. We leave this question for you to
decide. We can supply the “Superior,” manufactured by the
Cyphers Co.; it is well built, well insulated and up to the
usual Cypher standard. The boiler and tubular tank are made
of heavy copper. This machine will hatch duck or hen eggs.
It is fitted with a nursery space under the drawer, and remov-
able diaphragm for ease in cleaning.
65 eggs, approximate capacity, fitted with low legs (as illus-
trated) £7/7/6
130 eggs, approximate capacity, fitted with long legs—
£lo/12/6
Complete with Tester and Directions.
Old Homestead Incubators.
The “Old Homestead” Incubator is hot-water heated,
and manufactured to meet the demand of those wdio believe
that hot water heat for Incubators is better than hot air.
It is a handsome, well-built machine, and
will give general satisfaction if operated
according to the directions supplied. The
heating device is made of copper pipes, with
a diffusing cloth of wire which carries the
heat from directly under the pipes to the
space between them. This evens up the
temperature so that on the egg level the
temperature is practically uniform.
The “Old Homestead” Incubator, made
in one size only—
Approximate capacity, 70 eggs . . £B/5/-
Complete with Egg Tester and full
directions.
Cyphers Incubators.
Tens of thousands of Cyphers Incu-
bators have been sold since they were
placed on the market some years ago, and
their fame has gone round the world.
Cyphers Incubators (as illustrated) —
No. 2—240 eggs, approximate capacity—
£l9/10/-
Special Ostrich Machine £27/17/6
THE BUFFALO.
MARE sure of hatching early chickens
this year. The time is now right
for getting busy ; you can choose with
confidence from Anthony Horderns’ big
stock of dependable incubators, ranging
from the 15-egg Reliable to the
16,000-egg Mammoth.
The Reliable Hatcher.
A Circular Machine, made specially
for those who want to hatch a small
quantity of Chicks. It is made? en-
tirely of Metal and is safe and reliable.
Success is assured if the user follows
out the directions given with each
Machine; we have had these tested
with satisfactory results. A Ther-
mometer is sent with each one—
Made in three sizes—
-15 Eggs 15/-
25 22/6
50 „ 45/-
Brooder, for 15 or 25 Chick Size, 16/6
H!
V-'.v
«
’■ i ' •' /-**•»
m
■ ■■
mm
lr
9m
i
SB
■
Hi
w
M
THE CYPHERS.
Buffalo Incubators.
in the construction of the New Buffalo Incubator
little wood is used. The casing is of galvanised-iron, and
can never rust. It is lined with fibre board, which elimi-
nates any loss of heat by radiation. The walls are double,
the space between the inner and outer cases being- well
packed; this makes an incubator as substantial and will
insulated as it is possible to manufacture. The front is
made of hardwood, finished in the natural grain. In addition
to a glass door, it has an outer hardwood panelled door to
darken the hatching chamber and to preserve the heat.
No. 0— 60-egg capacity £8
No. I—l2o-egg capacity £lO/15/-
No. 2 —240-egg capacity £l5/15/-
No. 3—360-egg capacity £l9/18/6
American Standard Incubators
The American Standard Incubator is made by the
Robert Essex Incubator Co., and is fitted with a
fire- and smoke-proof heater, both very essential points.
The lamp font is made with the ioin on top—result.
ho leaking. The two bottom diaphragms are covered with
canvas and are removable for cleaning.
The American Standard system combines perfect ventila-
tion and perfect heating. It gives the eggs that natural
warmth that makes the perfect chicken.
American Standard Incubator—
Approximate capacity 70 120 200 eggs.
Weight packed ...... 100 130 2051 b.
Cubic feet S 12 20
Floor space 30x21 34 x 26 44 x 34 in.
£lO/12/6 £l3/10/- £l9/5/-
Full directions, Tester and Thermometer with each
Incubator.
Send for a Cony of our Catalogue of Poultry
Goads —wasted free.
THE TRIUMPH.
Triumph Incubators.
To meet the wants of a large number of our clients who
want a larger number of Chickens than can be hatched in a
“Reliable,” we have manufactured the “Triumph.” This is
a Hot-air Machine embodying all the latest improvements; it
is fitted with a Capsule Regulator and is worked on the
damper principle; it is thoroughly reliable and will give good
results if the directions are fully carried out.
40 Eggs (as illustrated) 50/-
5G Eggs, Improved, with Nursery space under drawer.. 75/-
Approximate weight packed. 561 b. and S4lb.
Packing for Country, 1/6 extra.
Columbia Incubators.
The Columbia is a first-class Incubator,
manufactured by the Cyphers Co. to meet
the demand for a popular-priced hatcher
that will give satisfaction under all ordinary
conditions.
Columbia Incubators have double walls,
including ends, back and top, are fitted with
Cyphers Co.’s Thermostat, are self-regulating
and self-ventilating, and when operated under
normal conditions need no added moisture.
Made in two sizes, both having long legs.
140 Eggs, approximate capacity £9/12/0
250 Eggs, approximate capacity £ll/10/-
We stock everything
required by the poultry=
keeper, whether he be in a
large or a small way. Both
the quality and the price
are right, bear in mind.
£
- STANDARD
-INCUBATORS
THE AMERICAN STANDARD
:
ANTHONY HORDERNS ’
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.


2
O
>
Co
l-J
M
We are trying to help you save your stock by Scientific Feeding.
All © products are palatable and appetising.
Palatable food means better assimilation.
The ingredients used in the preparation of Foods, and the process of manufacture, avoid
all waste.
The blending and grinding of © Stock Foods supply maintenance requirements and
stimulate production at minimum cost.
Ground foods are better than unground.
• Agents.—Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourke Street* Melbourne; Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Queen
Street, Brisbane; Messrs. Wm. Adams & Co., King Street, Perth; Messrs. Clarkson, Ltd., Bundle Street,
Adelaide; Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co., Hobart and Launceston.
WRLTE FOR BOOKLET ON SCIENTIFIC FEEDING TO STOCK FOODS DEPARTMENT A.
IAEGGITTL
IX/ieboyon the bag
Guarantees quality "
HEAD OFFICE gC KIM? ST
&
LINSEED OUMEAI
Stess
r\ECCITT
°JAe boy on the baa
guarantees cjualiuj


A Dainty Laxative
The day of harsh purgatives, of
big cathartic pills is over—gone for
ever. No need any longer to
swallow a nauseating dose to give
nature the gentle assistance re-
quired. Pinkettes, the new laxative,
are little pink sugar-coated ovals,
easy to take and pleasant in their
action. They are not drastic,
although certain and thorough.
Pinkettes are designed to
arouse the sluggish bowels and tor-
pid liver, to correct bad breath,
clear the complexion, and banish
biliousness and headache.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
How you can have the
Embroidery you Love
On your dainty blouse —your chic hat
—your new gown—your handbag, etc.
FOR THE HOME:
On your curtains, your cushions, your
tablecloths, in fact, on anything.
376
Machine for Hand Embroidery
So simple that a child can work it.
On Sale at all Leading Stores in Aus-
tralia, and shortly in N.Z.
Sole Australasian Representatives (wholesale
only):
Eastern Trading Co. Ltd.
Malcolm Lane (off George Street), Sydney.
Instruction given Free at above address
or by your local agent.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
CELEBRATED
$
\-V
CT
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young:—hard or soft, and
that remedy is A’CORN SILK, which
removes the worst corn in a few days, and the
sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure—it kills them. It is a painless cure —
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, °r posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
K. W. Bradley, Fitzroy Buildings, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Aberdeen House,
204 Clarence Street. Sydney.
L. Susman & Co.. Merchants, Hobart.
*• H. Maxwell & Co.. 18 Howard Street,
Perth, W. A. H
THESE
GOODS
ARE AUS.
TRALIAN
MADE.
Sunshine Purses.
nJiJU}AfI/iJtnn.nnnnnjijuu,.j i n_ n n-n
mm
Try our Lay-
by System.
All goods
post free
throughout
Australia.
XB2.—Art Leather Sunshine Purse, solid leather lined, with nickel-mounted purse and pocket
inside. Leather strap on back. Hand-laced. Obtainable in Magpie, Kookaburra, J3h|e Wren
and Waratah designs. Size Sin. x 4in. Price 14/6 each.
The same bag as above, but machined round edge, Price 12/6 each.
The same hand-laced, but without purse, Price 10/6 each
EXPERT MAILORDER CO.,
Also obtainable at G.P.O. Box 2575, Sydney.
Only addresses— AMERICAN BAG STORES, LIMITED,
Corner Pitt & King Streets; Strand Arcade, Pitt Street; Sydney Arcade, George Street.
m
&
n
yiGN
■
ISJr
n
NOT an Experiment!
The Australian Wool Clip is not a thing tc be ex-
perimented with. It was with the fullest recognition
of that fact, and only after years of exhaustive tests,
that “Vallo” —an Arsenical Dip of the highest quality—
was placed on the market with a definite pledge to
the Government of its equality to the best Dip ever
offered the Australian Woolgrower.
Powder SHEEP DIP
is an ideal realised. The genuine confidence and
enthusiasm with which it is now being used all over
the Commonwealth is sound evidence that Vallo is
a Perfect. Dip. When will your flock start enjoying
its effectiveness, its long-lasting protection? NOW?
cAll Stores Sell “ c DALLO"
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO*
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - BRISBANE
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
dfdhdfh
TO
H.M. THE KING
SCRUBBS AMMONIA
ALLAYS TH£ IRRITATION OF INSECT BITES.
Of all Grocers, Chemists, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
Bring delightful
music to your
home with an
EDISON
Amberola
Edison Amberolas are made
in various models at prices
to suit everybody—but all
of them are fitted with the
famous Diamond Stylus
Reproducer, which does aw'ay with needle changing and en-
sures such clear, delightful rendering of voice and instrument.
Any Edison Amberola will f'reatly add to your home pleasures, and will
be thoroughly enjoyed by all yo ar family a nd friends.
Call on the nearest Edison., dealer for a demonstration, or write direct
for full details, post free. • "
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. '(Wholesale <Mdy), 364-372 Kent St., Sydney,
I
-CO
Devilmaycare.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I lived in the land of Devilmaycare
For many long years on end;
I was happy and hearty, with laughter to
spare,
And never I lacked for a friend.
For Devilmaycare is a genial place
Where weather and women are fair;
Life’s never a worry, and seldom a race,
And the goods that we reach for we share
In Devilmaycare.
There were smiles and glad meetings in Devil-
maycare,
With kisses most varied and sweet;
And our souls were well fed, though quite
often out there
We’d little to wear or to eat.
In Devilmaycare is no hatred or spite,
No envy to wound one and tear;
There’s cosy, soft comfort by day and by
night,
And to vex us no mullygrubs dare
In Devilmaycare.
Ah me! When I lived in dear Devilmaycare
I prized not my blessed estate,
For nothing I knew of grim grief and despair
Or the wolf that lurks hard by the gate.
We lived hand to mouth, and we lived lip to
. lip;
Should we part, we but parted to pair. . ..
Oh, the gleam in the eye, and the hand on
the hip,
And the glint of glad sun on gold hair
In Devilmaycare.
Now I’m old I look back to fair Devilmay-
care
From my very respectable hole,
And I think that I’ve bought this upholstered
dull lair
At the price of my heart and my soul.
I sigh for the days when we lived might and
main,
Though often the cupboard was bare;
And I hope that maybe at the end of our pain
We shall pass from the dust and the glare
To Devilmaycare.
n.'s.w.
ELLERSLIE GREY.
Villanelle of April.
Now April ushers in her train
Of low-hung clouds sun-*miles, half-
caught
Betwixt swift falls of autumh rain.
Pale fires at eve the hills enchain:
Warm Summer’s pyre, as oft besought,
Now April ushers in her train.
Damp fragrances fleet forth again
From blooms whose presence is unthought,
Betwixt swift falls of Autumn rain ;
While wind looms weave their webs amain
From spools of mist that she has brought,
Now April ushers in her train.
The long-parched earth was tired: now fain
It quivers to the magic wrought
Betwixt swift falls of Autumn rain;
And hearts are glad almost to pain :
As with a healing promise fraught,
Now April ushers in her train.
Betwixt swift falls of Autumn rain.
QUEENSLAND.
KATHLEEN ROSE FRANCIS.
Tho Lover.
I have loved you too sadly for tears
And too merrily for laughter;
And I shall love you all the years
And the great day after.
In the grey days and the blue days
And the days of fine rain,
We went out on the new ways
And came back by the old again;
And the strange things of our doing
And the stranger things of our saying
Were as an apple bough swaying
To a bee’s wooing.
For never I wooed you to win you—
You were won ere the stars began—
But there was a music in you
That sang at the touch of a man ;
And the man in me to the woman in you
At the end of a thousand years was new.
Laugh for the sorrow we bore together!
Weep for the joy of a thing too fine!
You are the spring and the autumn weather
And the ploughed earth and the red wine;
And a pansy thought in the grey dew
And the sun over a high tree,
And the heart of a bird that flew and flew
Till it brought my soul to the sea.
You are the fire and the white bed,
And the pitcher of water clear and cool;
You are red apples and sweet bread,
And the warm touch of wool.
You are the wet wind in my hair,
And the long look from a window high;
And you are a praise and a strong prayer
When God and all the gods go by.
(Yet are you weak even as I,
With a world’s hope lost on a sigh!)
The moments, as they pause to gaze,
Hold us in their scorning,
Because our love is older than days
And younger than the morning;
But I shall kiss you well, my dear,
And keep you to my breast,
Till the moments make a yellow year—
For the years know us best.
N.S.W.
DACID McKEE WRIGHT.


m.
\
To
On
fool.
roor i,
W 1
w
V
h r&i
IS
•SUBSTITUTES
NEVER
TOOT
“MONKEY GRIP
The World’s Best Tyre Patch
Nobody forges a pauper’s name. Worthless' things aren’t
counterfeited. When a man writes a forged cheque it’s because
he can’t make good over his own signature. But the cheque
is still bad, because it is still his. All widely-advertised
goods are widely imitated. But substitutes are always like
their makers—unable to make good on their own account.
If they represented value they could be sold without mis-
representation. The original article is sure to be better, or
it wouldn’t be copied. There’s no need to try anything which
can’t be sold on its own merits. The manufacturer has already
judged for you and found it wanting. If he could make “as
good” he’d make a noise about it. SUBSTITUTES NEVER
TOOT.
MONKEY GRIP
will mend any puncture in three minutes’ time. The further
it goes the closer it sticks. F riction only helps to vulcanise it.
Made in three sizes—large, medium and small.
OUTFITS 4/6 TO 10/-
Obtainable at all Garages and Accessory Houses.
Agency Department:—
Central Coal & Shipping Agency, Ltd.,
79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
iJ
REX
it
Delicious—Appetizing—Satisfying,
Three words that describe very
mildly the excellent qualities of
‘Rex’Pork and Beans
They are always rich in quality, always a
delicacy possessing a snappy zest that whets
the appetite every time they are served.
The BEANS come out of the tin brown, mealy and tender;
delicious, digestible and wi h that real BEAN flavor that
cannot be brought out by any other process.
'lhey are seasoned with a special Tomato Sauce.
Ask for ‘REX’ PORK and BEANS—the Australian
Product. Try them to-day. Take no substitute.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products,
Carers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon.
J. 594
A PERFECT
SHAVE.
It’s British.
dfhdg
Christopher Johnson & Co.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Their Famous Full Hollow-Ground
Metropolitan Razor.
PRICE 10/6,
Of all Stores.
NORMAN
If unable to procure send Postal Note to their Agents.
BAKER & LONGHURST, 50 York Street, SYDNEY.
328 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
Farm fgh& Station Equipment.
Prominent in the equipment of
an up-to-date Dairy Farm or
Station is a kit of Veterinary
Instruments and Appliances.
The possession of these items
enables stock-owners to apply
quick, safe and efficient treat-
ment to stock without incur-
ring the risk of delay and
veterinary expenses.
Send for our Catalogue, which
enumerates essential Veterinary
Items which should always be
at hand wherever stock is raised
for profit.
Write for a copy to-day.
Denyer’s Latest Model
Spaying 1 Emasculator,
dƒhdf
The most perfect Spaying Emasculator known
to Veterinary Science to-day. Its special
construction embodies the latest scientific
improvements, which entirely eliminate the
possibility of internal bleeding. Our Cata-
logue contains full and explicit directions
for the safe and efficient use of this modern
instrument.
PRICE 60/- Postage in N.S.W., 9i.; Inter-State, 1/2.
DENYER BROS.,
The House for Veterinary Instruments and Appliances,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GOODRICH
Safety Tread
m
TYRES
The Goodrich Safety Tread is
the most efficient Non-Skid
Design.
All non-skids are not alike as
far as their efficiency goes.
The Goodrich Safety Tread
is a scientifically-designed non-
skid. It is not a mere fanciful
“design.” The parallel bars
with uniting cross-bar allow
the ooze to escape between
the bars, and therefore grip.
Side, forward or back skids
are prevented most effectively.
Furthermore, the Goodrich
Safety Tread does not
“punch” or injure the fabric
of the tyre—two points worth
considering.
Goodrich Tyres are
practical tyres,
big mileage pro-
ducers, and “Best
in the long run.”
OBTAINABLE AT ALL GARAGES.
DUVAL <a CO
13 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
124 Russell St., MELBOURNE.
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
South Australian Farmers’ Co-
op. Union, 36 Franklin Street,
ADELAIDE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Rost Office, Sydney, N.S.YV., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
T«. 4X.- N „. 2104.
THURSDAY, JUNE 10, 1920.
Price 9i>.
THE BOLSHEVIK TRIUMPH.
“Mr. Theodore, Premier of Queensland, is going to Russia on the invitation of the Swiet Government.”— Cable,
THE VISITOR: “My sympathy over your epidemic!”
THE CONVALESCENT: “Sympathy! Why, it’s done wonders for me,”
THE VISITOR: “What’s it got you?
THE CONVALESCENT: “The vote!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Foi £1 16s. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
■year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stumped letters arc liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part oj the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding tivo columns in length, or, say,
8009 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions arc observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and AVhite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.CJi;
E. T. Hole. Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasiansl High
Ilolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —Tfie Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; International House,
1/h Kerk Street, Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., hhl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; the Boston Hat Works and News
Co., 109 A Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. —Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; Western News and Publishing
Co., 10 Third Street, San Francisco, Cal., U.S.A. :
J. Roland Kay Cot, ZB//.9 Conway Buildings, Chicago,
U.S.A.; Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington,
U.S.A.; Bretario’s, Fifth Avenue and 27tli Street,
New Yor'. ; Schulte News Agency, Bryant Park,
I,2nd Street and 6tli Avenue, New York City; Queen
City News Co., Randolph arid Clark Streets, Chicago;
Golden Gate News Agency, 719 Market Street ,
Chicago; George Hussey, Pershing Square News
Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu.- —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egy» t . Ujnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
H -o. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hop ' K ■>
S ' John Little and Co., Merchants,
"(•, : . a . G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
ColoriU ■ : B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai, Kulamadau and
Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands. 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., 1-id.; Bioz. to 10oz..
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3§d.; elsewhere, l/oz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
j^e'^tdleUx/n.
THURSDAY, JUNE 10, 1920.
BACK TO THE OLD CORRUPTION.
A return is threatened in N.' S. Wales to
the ancient* and smellful corruption of
direct political management of railways—a
corpse that, was supposed to have been
buried amid' universal disrespect 32 years
ago. As a matter of fact, only half of the
Unlovely thing was interred. The making
of railways'Still remained a purely political
business, and it has smelled like a decayed
crocodile. For 32 years, however, the man-
agement of the completed lines has been
fairly clean in the sense that the service
was ‘ no longer filled with the relatives,
hangers-on, supporters and parasites of poli-
ticians, promotion no longer went to the
incompetent with the biggest pull, and
there were* no longer three men doing the
work of. 'two because the brother of
son, M:L.A., was sacred and no one dare
look sideways at the nephew of Howler,
M L.C. Now the Storey Government
throws out feelers about a reversion to the
old filthy iniquities. Minister Dooley has
announced that “the public of .a country is.
making a huge mistake in handing over pub-
lic utilities of any sort to men who can
defy the people”; and he added: lolitical
control has its disadvantages, but it As
easier to correct its mistakes.” The public
has before it the appalling break-of-gauge
blunder which may take £70.000,000 to fully
repair, and which started at Sydney ana
took root under political control. Also, it
looks askance at the perpetual extension
under purely political management of hope-
lesslv unpayable lines in hopelessly . empty
valleyh of dry bones, many of which no
expert would have dreamed of recommend-
ing. while the most promising regions where
an expert would like to make money still
bullock-dray on the old principles. * And
it wonders how easily the frothy Dooley
will “correct” these crimes, and when he
proposes to start. #
It is not to be supposed, of course, that
the new corruption when (or if) it comes
about will be quite the same as the old
one. It will be a slightly different corpse,
with a rather worse smell. The kind of
service aimed at is probably the North
Queensland variety, or the variety that
North Queensland had in the most garish
Townsville-insurreetion days of Ryapisrrr,
when the bird of freedom roosted high and
every man did that which was bad in his
own sight, provided his union boss didn’t
tell him to do something worse, and before
Theodore began some small efforts i stop
the chaos. In those times wages were hand-
somely increased, and the number of em-
ployees was handsomely increased also, so
that four men were everywhere leaving three
men’s work undone, and two men were hold-
ing one man’s sinecure, and all six were
of the right political color. Then every
Queensland line save one ceased to pay
working expenses, and nobody’s orders were
much attended to save those of the. union
boss, and his orders were observed with the
sudden velocity of Sambo leaping when his
owner cracked the whip. For a while at
least the attitude of the railway worker
Far North expressed itself in three state-
ments :—■
(1) Carry your blanky luggage yourself!
(2) This train will start when it’s blanky well
ready! !
(3) Oil, go to Hell 1 1 !
* -it * *
The ideal railway system for which some
of Minister Dooley’s followers stand, what-
ever Minister Dooley may stand for in
his own mind, has really nothing or very
little to do with “the public” about which
that person professes such anxiety. It
would, so far as the earnings and the con-
trol go (and they go all the way! be con-
fiscated from the two millions of i. re pub-
lic now represented by the Comm oners
and would belong to tire 43,000 employees,
subject to some supervision by the officials
of the central Labor authority. The ques-
tion of making the lines yield even a small
part of the interest on the debt they repre-
sent would be so wholly subordinate as to
drop quite out of sight. Employees would
be exceedingly plentiful, partly to avoid any
possible fear of undue exertion, and partly
to provide employment for unskilled workers
of the right political color. It wouldn’t be
a case of finding a billet for .lobinson's
brother as it was 40 years ago, but of some-
one else’s brother, and the result would be
the same. No employee, however insubor-
dinate or incompetent or superfluous, could
be sacked without such lengthy trial before
a Court largely consisting of his aggrieved
mates that it would be cheaper to pension
him off. Compared with the way the party
sacked men like Hughes, llolman and
Higgs at a second’s notice, the removal of
a railway porter would be like the Chancery
proceedings in Jarndyce and .Tarndyce.
And if any man showed himself especially
truculent by fomenting a specially-absurd
strike his position would then be assured
for life, and his promotion certain ; for his
removal, even if he smote the Chief Traffic
Inspector on the nose, would be a proof of
“victimisation.” This principle is already
recognised to some extent. In fact, there
would be practically no discipline save that
of the union, which is cast-iron and based
on universal conscription and absolute obedi-
ence even to the buying of the Bolshevist
paper.
* * * *
No Australian State ever made “the huge
mistake of handing over public utilities to
men who could defy the people.” That griev-
ance is a figment of Minister Dooley’s dis-
eased imagination, and a woe of his own
invention. Railway commissioners have a
short tenure of office, unlike Cornstalk Labor
M’s.L.C.; and they are so easily removable
that, though they have existed in the
Ma State for only 32 years, three of them
have been removed, usually for doing the
right thing. It is mere lunacy then to profess
that they can “defy the people,” even in the
half of the service (the management half
as separate from the construction half) that
they nominally control. There wasn’t even
enough workable defiance about them to keep
Dooley’s party from making a supremely
crazy bargain with Private Enterprise
capitalists in 1915—the Norton Griffiths
job of unsavory memory. But they are men
suspected of some sort of knowledge of their
business. They furnish some sort of guar-
antee that men will be engaged by reason
of, character and ability—not because they
are pro-Huns or loud orators, or people with
bright ideas about unlimited paper currency,
or “organisers,” or supporters of Irish inde-
pendence or solid with some particular
church. They feel bound to do some trifle
towards rescuing a little money but of the
debris and chaos of political railways in
order to meet interest on railway loans. And
they are a nrotection against the horror of
having the whole system managed per ’phone
by Garden from the Trades Hall, or run by
internal committees which would meet on
the platform to decide when the Melbourne
express should start, or stop it by wire on
learning that the driver wasn’t “financial”
with his union. Still, they are a killjoy
crowd ; and there are others —the Common-
wealth Bank and the High Court, for in-
stance. No doubt, if the public puts up with
Mr. Dooley’s “reforms,” these will have
attention next.
AUSTRALIA FOR THE ASIATICS?
“Japan,” remarked the Yamato Shim bun a
few days ago, “recognises the principle of a
White Australia, but do Britons recognise
that Asia is for the Asiatics?” Britons
would feel that a vast problem had been
solved if they could only accept the Japan-
ese paper’s assurance. They know, to begin
with, that virile people have a way of ex-
tending beyond their own territorial borders.
The Phoenicians wer6 not content with
Lebanon; nor later with Cyprus; nor later
still with the known world of their day.
So long as their national fire remained they
had to feed it with further acquisitions. The
Greeks, the Romans, the Persians, the Van-
dals all responded to the same spur. England
was never enough for the English., nor
France for the French, and the late war
would not have been if Germany had sufficed
for the Germans. Australia with a national
history of 20 years, and a population that
onlv 'fringes its coast-line, is already a
colony-owner. There is a Spring-time m the
development of every nation when it grows
and spreads with monstrous speed, tepam
and Portugal knew it in the sixteenth cen-
tury Britain in the seventeenth and eight-
eenth centuries. Japan is experiencing it
now. The time is in sight, according to
many Americans, when the Pacific Coast
States of America will be Japanese ; the
Japanese are immigrating to New Caledonia,
Samba and the Hebrides; they occupy the
Marshalls and the Carolines, Korea and
parts of Siberia. Above all, they are in
China, and, despite the protestations ot the
leaders of the feeble anti-militarist party
of Japan, it is unthinkable that they will
voluntarily get out. Vigorous nations do
not thus abandon rich countries once they
have a footing there. From the point ot
view of Australia it matters little, really,
whether Japan stays in Shantung or gives it
up. China, with its impotent Governments,
its burlesque army and navy, and its pathetic
reliance on trade boycotts as a measure of
defence against foreign aggression is an
anomaly in the world of to-day. The Chinese
provinces will either come together, as the
German States did half a century ago, and
evolve a stable Government and formidable
defence forces, in which case the Japanese
will be pushed out of the key to Central
China in short order; or, as seems likelier,
they will procrastinate and allow their
country to become another Korea—or India.
In cither event the dominant Asiatic race
will immediately begin looking away from
Asia. It is a law of the jungle that we call
civilisation from which there is no escape.
And Australia’s geographical situation is
such that the regard of an aggrandised
Japan, or of an awakened China, must turn
to it first.
*• # * *
There are two alternatives at the dis-
posal of this country, and only two, the situ-
ation being one of those which does not
admit of a middle course. The Freetrade
view, as voiced by organs such as the Argus,
is that we can best guard ourselves against
the Yellow Peril, and advance in wealth and
dignity, by taking all the goods that Asia is
willing to send, even if on racial grounds we
continue to exclude Asiatic workers. By
buying the cheap manufactures of Asia' we
would both live at a peypetual bargain-
counter ourselves and put the yellow races
in the position of owning the Commonwealth,
in the sense that most colonies are owned,
without the expense of administering it. As
a result we would be left alone, as not worth
conquering, and all would be smiles and
harmony. It might be unnecessary even to
support a defence force. The case of the
German sugar which entered England before
the war is often quoted. Being dumped
sugar it beat eVery other variety in the
British market; and an effect of its arrival
was to create a boom in the jam-trade.
Thousands got employment in the jam in-
dustry, and soon English jam was selling
in Germany despite the German tariff against
it. The catch in the transaction was that
jam-making is a miserable third-rate sort of
industry which doesn’t lead much further
nationally speaking than the laundry busi-
ness, while sugar is almost as important to
a great modern country as steel. If Aus-
tralia sacrificed its infant iron industry in-
dividual Australians could, no doufit, get
cheaper iron and steel goods from Asia than
have hitherto been landed here. The Inter-
state Commission pointed out recently that
£7,750,000 worth of imports in the steel
and iron line might be produced locally, giv-
ing employment to 30,000 workers. This
prospect would, of course, be sacrificed; but
a certain number of workers would be
absorbed elsewhere —on the land or in the
firms which handled the imported stuff. The
warehouses, the shops and the shipping com-
panies would make profits, and 'the farmers
and graziers would get many of their neces-
saries at a dirt-cheap figure. Meanwhile*
however, the nation would have to rely on
foreigners for its warships and guns, if it
had, any; for every defence requirement, if
it decided to arm at all; and even for the
ships of its mercantile marine. The foreign-
ers might be different from any that his-
tory has ever heard of : if not they would
presently demand what they wished of this
country in the way of trade, and at their
own prices; and eventually they would
occupy it. In short, they would treat it
as Korea and China are being treated at this
moment.
* * * *
Australia has decided pretty solidly for
the opposite policy—that of high Protection
and effective defence. During the war it
was impossible to make munition-waggons
here; we lacked the steel. The leather of
the Australian service boots was as good as
any in the world, but the. tacks and nails
had to be imported. In almost ery detail
of equipment the A.I.F. was i< ced to rely
on the outside world, with the result that
if the R.N. and R.A.N.' had not been able
to keep the seas clear our soldiers would
have had to begin their training unclothed
as well as unarmed. Under the new tariff
most of the articles which find their way
into an ordnance store enjoy a healthy duty ;
and dumping, which the Australian Indus-
tries Preservation Act (1906) failed so sig-
nally to check, should be impossible in any
ordinary line. There are millions waiting
to be poured into Australian industries.
The wages question, so far as the manu-
facturers are concerned, is chiefly a matter
of finding some authority competent to fix
a basic figure which will be static over a
reasonable part of the Commonwealth for
a reasonable time. They are in no mood
to haggle about the precise size of the figure.
The prime essential is that they should
not go in constant dread for the lives of
the concerns, as so many of those in charge
of Australia’s key industries do to-day. The
new spirit—the outcome chiefly of resent-
ment against profiteering, though borrowing
Governments and the resultant devaluation
of the nation’s money are more to blame
—aims at baiting the ‘‘‘capitalist.” That this
profits the worker little, and in many in-
stances is ruinous to him, is considered a
trifle by the strike-fomenters. There is an-
other method of holding up industry which
has not even the excuse of being
directed towards gaining improved condi-
tions or raised wages. Organised labor tends
more and more to use ~ the strike weapon to
blackmail public bodies, the Executive, and
even the judiciary. A row occurs between
the jockeys of M.L., who have never troubled
to organise industrially, and the racing offi-
cials, and a transport strike is called. The
Commonwealth Government proposes to de-
port certain Germans: the seamen announce
that they will not man the deportees’ ships.
Unless the I.W.W. prisoners—duly tried and
duly convicted —are released, another section
is in favor of a general strike. This policy
is pursued by thousands who hate the idea
of Asiatic domination, or of domination by
any outside race whatever; who fought
against such domination in the A.1.F.; and
who believe in high Protection and naval
and military defence. And yet the policy
is so much the negation of Australian nation-
alism, and so favorable to the ambitions of
the war-parties of lands whose workers are
as disciplined as they are ill-paid, that it is
possible to imagine the latter disbursing vast
sums here to keep it alive. For unless some
amicable understanding is come to between
the employers and the workers of Australia,
in the teeth of the efforts made by the “Inter-
national” lunatics to stop it, then the blood
that has been shed and the work ' that lias
been done so far to make Australia a nation
will have been in vain. We shall have
nothing to show for the Great War but 60,000
corpses and quarter of a million casualties;
and for the tariff little more than high
prices and industries either unborn or
strangled at birth. The Australia of the
future will not be for Australians, but for
some race—probably Asiatic —with a superior
genius for co-operation and self-government.
SETTLERS AT £2000 EACH.
Everything is going up except Australia’s
credit, and the Premiers’ conference estimated
that the cost of settling one solclier on the
land has reached £2OOO, on an average—
£4o,ooo,ooo for 20,000 settlers. Now,
20,000 are not many. With a wife and two
children apiece they would be lost in Tas-
mania ; the whole SO,QOO only represent
one good year’s increase of population. And to
put these 80,000 people on the land perhaps
40,000 are shoved off; for in the enormous
majority of cases it isn’t a matter, of opening
up Virgin soil but of buying-out old settlers.
Some of these old settlers were, it is true,
fairly large settlers, and in! such cases two
or three new fhmilies take Ifclie place of one.
But some were very small, and then it is a
case of one family replacing another, possibly
a small family taking the place of a big one.
Probably the additional settlers gained are
thus costing £4OOO each. The great bulk
of these men are being deposited in the
south, where most of the rainless country is,
and where cotton, the big crop that Australia
has none of, and which is most urgently
needed, doesn’t flourish. Nor does coffee. The
two States with most population, and con-
sequently with the least room and tJie high-
est-priced land, claim the bulk of the feettlers.
And these States being in the south the
settlers are to concentrate on producing the
things which: depend in a great measure on
the vagaries of a foreign market and the for-
bearance of foreign shipowners—who haven’t
any.
• * * *
Land settlement is the only business into
which the Repatriation Department has put
the whole shrivelled peanut of its soul.
Yet—
It is the only oiie in which ,very frequently no
wages at all am&paj'dj: because imperative working
expenses swallow feveiv thing, 'or ..iijhre than every-
thing. , ‘ ■ ’ ' ' "Av
It is the only one! in which hours are long and
unlimited and unpaid child-labor is rampant.
It is the ohly one, which has to be assisted all
the time with low railway charges and -wholly car-
ried part of the time with relief loans, etc., to
save it, from extinction.
Notwithstanding all this, land settlement at
£2OOO per settler is a blessed institution for
the time-serving, voterhuntihg type of
politician. There is no other line in which
can be found such a plausible sham-patriotic
excuse for borrowing £20,000,000 on the
security of 10,000 settlers -and putting that
amount into circulation without attracting
much notice from anybody. There is also
no other line which implies such a
golden hope that a potentially-trouble-
some individual has been got rid of.
just as the wastrel son of an old
English family used to be “sent to the col-
onies” and told to lose himself there; for
he has been put beyond the reach of Trades
Hall and 0.8. U. agitators and factory in-
spectors and strike organisers and city phi-
lanthropists who worry about _ child labor
and -sanitation and people sleeping five in a
bed. In fact, the potentially-troublesome per-
son is supposed to be tied to a tree, and
the Ministry hopes that he will remain there
while it lasts. No other scheme yet in-
vented pleases two sets of people at once
those who sell the land for cash raised by
loan and those who buy it subject to a lia-
bility which many of them don’t view seri-
ously, while they also get some sort of cash
advance to carry them over the first year or
two. Moreover, land settlement furnishes
an excuse, which a mere woollen factory
doesn’t, for raising new railway loans, and
these also go into circulation and please a
lot more people. “Land-settlement” is, in
short, the one industry which has to be sus-
tained by a vast process of “opening up the
country” ; and what that phrase may mean
can be judged by the fact that Australia now
possesses a railway which opens up some
400 miles of country that Nature made so
open and treeless that an ant has to take a
false name in order to conceal himself on it.
* * * *
Manufactures don’t give any of these
magnificent facilities for loan-mongering and
loan-spending. Australia clearly and dis-
tinctly requires, even with its present small
population, another 23,000 workers in its
tweed and woollen industry alone, that esti-
mate being based on the fact that the 4000
or so who are there already only produce
about 15 per cent, of the country’s require-
ment, so that the other 85 per cent, of the
goods have to be bought abroad at ruinous
prices. These people could be settled in
small towns that greatly need population for
about £3OO per head, that being the latest
estimate of the value of land, buildings,


NOTICE.
JUNE 16 and 17 having been
proclaimed public holidays in N. S.
Wales, next week’s BULLETIN
will be published on
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 16.
Efforts will be made to have the
paper delivered to Agents on
Tuesday, June 15, and it may be
sold immediately on receipt.
plant and machinery required per worker.
(Probably the 23.000 would give .steady work
to another 23,000 in making machinery and
putting up buildings, and they in turn would
irive employment to others; but these _ side
issues are too numerous to be dealt with.)
This army of toilers would have a job that
was proof against drought, for there is
always far more than enough wool for local
demands. They wouldn’t have to wait 12
months for a crop and then find that there
was no crop. The vagaries of foreign
markets and the whims and chances of
foreign shipowners wouldn’t spoil their busi-
ness. And when it is remembered that local
tweed, even made at good Australian wages,
costs less than half as much as the imported
article of similar quality, these new drought-
proof workers, who wouldn’t require loan-
railways to open them up, should strike a
blow at the high cost of living—a blow
that, so far as their business was concerned,
would make it crumple up as a beehive does
when a mountain falls on it. In doing so
they would be an example, an incentive, and
a bright and shining light. But any fool
with a loan can put anybody on the land and
leave him there, whereas it takes massive
brains to organise big industries and make
them self-supporting. Incapacity is demon-
strated too soon and failure can’t be blamed
on the poor old drought. So those who
follow the line of least resistance will con-
tinue to put small settlers on the land at
£2OOO each, until something happens. And
when it happens, drought, which isn’t repre-
sented by counsel, will be found responsible.
WHEN ISRAEL GOES HOME.
Thebe is an air of unreality and imperma-
nence about the Republics of the Little
Peoples created last year by the tired Titans
of Versailles. They are so new, so frail, so
remote from friends, so hedged about by
foes, in all things so pathetically dependent
upon foreign support, that a slight disturb-
ance of the balance of power or a change of
Government in Britain or the U.S.A. might
overturn the lot. They were formed when
the Allies were in the flush and illusion of
victory and with* the strongest assurances of
American assistance ;■ without such assur-
ances they wouldn’t have been formed at all.
Since that time American assistance has be-
come an increasingly doubtful quantity, and
Italy, baulked q£ . her aspirations in the
Adriatic, has shown indifference to the Czechs
and the Poles and acute hostility to the Jugo-
slavs,' whom she now considers, with some
reason, her bitterest enemies. There remain
only Britain and France, doubtless cordial
(although Lloyd George is 'said to have
opposed the restoration of Poland) and, with-
in their limits, willing to help, but both war-
sick, unfinancial and with troubles enough of
their own; and on the other side are the
Germans,' Russians and Hungarians, all with
the strongest motives for regaining their
dominion over provinces and vassals that
were theirs for centuries. And they are not
even homogeneous and friendly, the Little
Peoples. They are racked ,#ith racial jeal-
ousies and political feuds: Poles quarrel with
Jews, Czechs with Slovaks and Serbs with
Croats; famine and Bolshevism gnaw at their
vitals; they are heterogeneous, mutually hos-
tile, hungry and hard-up. In the last resort,
their only chance of surviving lies in present-
ing a common front to the common enemy ;
but the Poles talk of fighting the Czechs for
the possession of Teschen, and the Monte-
negrins, deprived of their ancient Nicholas
and subject to the hated Kabageobgevitch
dynasty, seem to be only awaiting a favorable
moment (Italy or D’Annunzio may decide
it) for bogging into Serbia. If nations as
well as individuals could insure against
death, no office would accept Poland, Jugo-
slavia or Czecho-Slovakia without “loading”
it down to the neck.
But there is a new State now forming
in AVestern Asia which has everything the
Little Peoples lack. It is starting business
with the blessing and support of Britain and
the U.S.A., .and a man of eminence in British
politics is to boss its executive. Small the
country is, but rich in resources; admirably
situated for trade and commerce, and with
strong natural border defences, composed of
desert, mountains and sea. The Mediter-
ranean, with the British Navy guarding it,
is its western frontier; and, having neither
unfriendly neighbors nor rebellious subjects
powerful enough to overturn the Government,
it is free from the danger of successful raid-
ing or revolt; neither will it have any dis-
coverable reason for waging war on its own
account. For revenue there is a tourist
traffic as regular and nearly as plentiful as
Switzerland’s, and there will be no scarcity
of money for land development and the estab-
lishment of new industries, for the new State
is without a public debt and its founders
claim kinship with the richest and most in-
fluential financiers in the world. Indeed, if
their aspirations are realised, it will be a
creditor-State, as America is and Britain used
to be, a State enriched by an annual tribute
from every borrower-country on earth. And
the people concerned in the enterprise are
enormously capable, resolute and tough.
They have given mankind its grandest re-
ligion, and had produced a great literature
before Greece was thought of. Theirs is
the oldest civilised community existing; it
antedated the Roman Empire and may out-
last the British. Scattered over Europe
and parts of Asia and Africa and barbar-
ously treated in all countries, they have re-
tained their religion and racial identity and
are powerful everywhere. The nineteenth
century was, for this ancient and persecuted
people, a century of liberation from the
Ghetto-prisons in which an ignorant Europe
had herded it for ages, to its own enormous
moral and intellectual loss. Freed from
their chains and admitted to the freemasonry
of AVestern civilisation,* the sons of the old
race became, in the democratic countries that
first emancipated them, Conservatives, props
of the State. In backward and quasi-
democratic countries where emancipation
came late., and the old prejudice and perse-
cuting spirit remained, they became heralds
of revolt. One of them wrote the bible of
Socialism; another was to Germany what
Boulanger was to France. Others in days
more recent were the inspirers and to a
large extent the directors of the Young Turk
movement, Bolshevism, the Liebknecht-
Luxemoourg rising in Germany, and the
Bela Kuhn blood-bath in Hungary. But
there were builders among this historic
people, as well as destroyers. Some of
the most eminent men in the nineteenth
century were members of the tribe. In
literature there was Heine, in statecraft
Disbaeli, in music Mendelssohn and
Arthur Sullivan,, in finance the Roths-
childs, in commerce Ballin, creator of
the German mercantile navy, who shot him-
self when the Junkers in their madness had
destroyed his life’s work. Nor will the new
State derive the whole of its glory from the
illustrious dead. It will have celebrities of
its own generation to look up to and brag
about— Reading, Lord Chief Justice of
Britain; Monasii, the man who planned
the offensive of August 8 (Ludendobff’s
“black day”) ; Godfrey Isaacs, manager of
the Marconi Wireless ; Jx\uob Epstein, the
sculptor; Zangwill, the novelist; Bern-
stein, the dramatist; Trotsky, the
wrecker; Cassel, the banker; and a shoal
of lesser fry. The tribe is supposed to num-
ber 12 millions, and if the whole 12 millions
go back to the old home things will be a
bit crowded and confused at the start.
Though agriculture was the nation’s old
occupation there will be a dearth of agri-
culturists and an alarming plethora of
pawnbrokers and makers of fifty-bob suits'
Navvies and lumpers will be as rare as
self-denial in an Australian Parliament, but
the market for financial agents, entrepre-
neurs and revue artists will be oversupplied.
The sporting interest will be rich enough
to buy all the horses in Arabia, and to
stiffen all the jockeys from Sinai to Syria.
The summons to a new life on the old hal-
lowed sod will, however, appeal to the
finer instincts of the race. In one broad,
fertilising channel will be concentrated the
flow of ideas, now so often wasted, from its
brightest minds. Presently restless and
adventurous spirits will find the country too
small for them, and population will slop
over the frontiers, and so the old glories of
Syria and Mesopotamia will be restored.
In fine, the nation will have a spiritual re-
birth, and an astonished world will sit back
and admire the fruits.
* ■ * * *
And all this is to come to pass when the
Jews go back to Judaea. The thing that
spoils the picture is that they won’t go back.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The New Militarism.
The heel of militarism grows heavy when
the militant and organised Seamen’s Union
announces a strike if any Huns are deported
on terms which don’t please it, and a
probable general strike if the I.W.'W. incen-
diaries, who have already had three hearings
and been found guilty each time, are not re-
leased without further inquiry. Militarism
doesn’t require a uniform and a sloped
bayonet and a cocked hat for its fullest
development. The world saw it in its worst
forms before these were invented, and it sees
it in its worst forms without them to-day.
Any force which is better organised, more
truculent, more ambitious and less scrupu-
lous than other forces answers the purpose
to perfection, and the Gardens and Tom
Walshes of Australia aim at commanding
such a force and half believe that they
already command it. One day or another the
question must be fought to a finish whether
the people govern Australia—the people
represented in the last recourse by a Parlia-
ment created by equal man- and woman-
suffrage—or whether it is ruled by the
Walsh-Garden army. It matters little on
what point the battle is joined, but if the
demand is made for the release of the I.W.W.
prisoners, convicted after earnest investiga-
tion of the worst possible offences, no better
cause of argument could be found. The
concession of the demand would mean that
the Seamen’s Union has superseded the
courts, and if it can release its pet criminals
without proving their innocence it is only
a step to assuming power to gaol its oppo-
nents without proving their guilt. It im-
plies a new and suicidal idea in politics.
Hitherto unions have struck to improve their
own conditions which were their own busi-
ness, however unjustifiable the means em-
ployed to enforce their business may have
seemed. It is the craze and insanity of
fancied power which leads them to think of
running other people’s business, using
property that doesn’t belong to them as a
weapon. Australia can’t afford to be known
as a land where criminals of a particularly
venomous international type, held accursed
in every other civilised land, are heroes and
popular idols and persons who are at a
premium. That sort of thing will make
Australia the refuge of such scum, and they
may presently own the country. Nor can it
afford to be known as the one country in
the world where the Government has abdi-
cated the right to expel aliens at its pleasure
when it regards them as undesirable—the
one country that belongs to the alien if he
can hire a sufficiently virulent lawyer to
take up his case. Least of all can it publish
to the world that absolute Democracy has
failed —that the principle of control by the
widest and most liberal suffrage the human
race possesses has slumped inside 20 years
into control by a vulgar oligarchy.
♦
Disillusion.
Recent cables indicate that the British
workers have, as the Tommies say,
“rumbled” Krassin, the Bolshevik envoy
now in England. The Lenin doctrine, which
was looked to by serious-minded Socialists
with hope, if not with enthusiasm, a year
ago, has lost its allurement under the cold
light shed by impartial truth. And it is
the same here. Only a few months since
the local brethren discerned the approach-
ing Revolution “just round the corner” ; to-
day, by general consent, it is so far down
the road as to be almost out of sight. What
is the real objection to it amonast the more
advanced races of the world? Not the long
hours of work and the conscription of labor,
nor even the interferences with libertv and
the huge army of officials necessitated by
such conditions. There are millions of
decent citizens who would be willing to work
harder, and sacrifice more of their personal
rights, if they knew that the results would
be the abolition «of poverty and. a larger
general measure of happiness. But Bol-
shevism provides nothing of the sort, and
it. offers no present indication that it ever
will. The capitalistic system has plenty
of weak points, and it doesn’t take a student
of Marx to appreciate them. But at its
worst it affords a reliable means of liveli-
hood for anyone who is willing to work.
Under capitalism a man who grows potatoes
or wheat, or makes chairs or bricks, or
is a distributor of these things, or
merely works for wages in producing
them, knows that his exertions will earn
him a livelihood. After three years of Bol-
shevism millions of Russians are in abject
distress, though the last two agricultural
seasons have been so good that, as Lloyd
George remarked recently, “the national
granaries are overflowing”; though the
Government has money—real, golden money
—to burn ; and though there is a surplus-
age of many manufactured articles. The
rhythm of credit and trade, internal and
foreign, has been interfered with; and, as
the whole machinery of modern civilisation
is actuated by them, and with their impair-
ment must work badly or stop altogether,
countless peasants are finding themselves
with insufficient clothes and nothing to eat but
their wheat, while the townspeople are burn-
ing the wood of their houses for lack of coal
and going short of bread, meat and milk.
The chief crime of the original Bolshevik,
whoever he may have been, was that he tore
down a work of art which had taken 5000
years to build before he was ready with a
superior article, or, for that matter, with
any working alternative at all. Some sort
of constructive economic policy is now being
groped after, evidently, by Lenin and his col-
leagues ; but. meantime the poor—the classes
which haven’t been able to invest money in
capitalist countries overseas—are in the
position of the dog upon whom the medicine
is being tried. They have to stay in their
native land and swallow the stuff, with the
proof before their eyes that it must mean
suffering to all and death to many of them,
and a suspicion, approaching certainty, that
the right prescription will not be discovered
in their day. The unionised British worker,
with Parliamentary representation and a
full knowledge of how to exploit it, is
aware of a pleasanter road to the millen-
nium than that. And the Australian toiler
is not behind him in intelligence.
+
Murder at £4 11s. 3d. a Time.
The N. S. Wales Director-General of Pub-
lic Health issued his annual report last
week, and it is particularly interesting on
the milk question. The Government Analyst
examined 10,021 samples, and 715 of them
were adulterated; that is to say, 7.1 per
cent. There were 281 prosecutions; and in
nearly twice as many cases the offenders
were “warned” by the inspectors. The con-
victed adulterators paid an average of
£4 11s. 3d in fines and costs. Eight officials
did the inspecting for the entire State. Now,
milk, while it is the best of food, can be
the deadliest of poisons. It has the faculty
of picking up disease-germs at a quicker rate
than any other substance which goes largely
into human consumption. This is reflected
in the infant death-rates of all those coun-
tries which, like Australia, are careless
about their milk supply. Town babies of
the poorer classes are more liable to die
than country infants; the milk takes longer
to reach them, and becomes more poisonous
in the process. More children die here
from enteritis and diarrhoea in the summer
than in the winter: the flies are about in
the summer, and they get into the unpro-
tected milk. The , children of an ill-nourished
or milk-poisoned mother are born sickly, and
frequently join, the considerable class which
dies before reaching the age of one year.
During the war Mrs. H. B. Irving coined
an epigram. “It is more dangerous,” she
said, “to be a baby than to be a man in
the trenches.” And the figures more or less
supported her. At a time when nine men
per hour were dying in Flanders, 12 babies
under the age of one year were dying per
hour in England. Germany has understood
for years past the national importance of
preventing baby-waste, and that is one of
the explanations of the commanding lead
it has held, and doubtless will hold "again,
in comparative population statistics. The
Germans not only see that the child gets
the best milk available from the time it is
born; they also ensure a healthy supply for
the mother before and after the event. It
is inspiring to reflect upon the splendid
young lives we might save in this country
—to fight for us possibly, and to help pay
our monstrous war-debt certainly—if we
only gave a fraction of the attention to them
that we do to the life of, say, William
Sikes, burglar. If William is shot by a
friend in a brawl we give his exterminator
15 years’ penal servitude, and the result is
that this kind of murder is comparatively
rare. For poisoning or starving one who
was possibly an embryo Milton or Shak-
speare the penalty is £4 11s. 3d. —if, indeed,
the assassin doesn’t escape with a warning
as a first offender. Possibly the most com-
plete reform would be the appointment of
Commissioners to control the whole of the
Milk Trade —to grade milk, to appoint inspec-
tors, frame rules for the cleanliness of bails,
pails, milkers, delivery carts and so forth,
and generally to do the preventive work which
the police authorities undertake in their
sphere. But much might be done short of that
if the present officials would take a reason-
ably serious view of their responsibilities. A
“warning,” or even a fine of a couple of
pounds for that most profitable of infamies,
the adulteration of milk, is not so much a
deterrent as a joke.
*
The Treaty.
Peter Airey’s sort of parable:—
There was once a Treaty, a most beautiful Treaty,
and it lay on a table surrounded by Statesmen in
the City of Versailles. It was engrossed on the
loveliest parchment. It had 25 clauses, 150' sub-
clauses and 150,000 lines of Explanatory Addenda.
It made nothing of certain old States; it created
new States out of nothing. It defined with meticu*
lous care the boundaries of Jugo-Slavia, of Slavo-
Jugia, of Italia Irredenta, of Serbia Major, of Gcr-
mania Minor, of Ukrainia, of Annunzio Minimus and
Caucasia Ulterior. It was also signed by the Big
Five and the Little Ten and the Minimal Twenty.
Then an Inkwell was laid upon it with a copy of the
Pacifist Moral Code and a portrait of the President
of the United States of America. “And now,” said
Somebody, “the Thing is as safe as Houses!”
It was a Beautiful Treaty and everybody said it
was a model of Everything-a-Treaty-should-be. And
Sundry Gentlemen wept when they left it and a
Good Man from America said his Life was inter-
woven in its texture and all his days he would he
Proud of it.
“But,” said a Frenchman who had been a Bad,
Unpleasant Man, “if a Violent Gale blew in at the
window it might blow the thing about, and then per-
haps we might never find it again.”
“But don’t you see the Inkwell and the Moral
Code and the portrait of a Good Man are resting
upon it to keep it steady and stable?” said a
Statesman.
At this they all plucked up heart and left the
Chamber triumphant.
But a few weeks later there came along the
Violent Gale that the Unpleasant Man had mentioned
and it lifted up the Parchment and upset the Ink-
well and the Moral Code and sent the Good Man’s
portrait up the Chimney. It did not blow the signa-
tures off the parchment (which was a Blessing),
hut it blew the Treaty out of the opposite Window
into Russia, where the Bolshies found it, and they
cut it up and made it into Paper Roubles at half-
price.
And when the Statesmen learned what had hap-
pened each man cried, “Woe is me," and smote his
breast. All but the Bad Man. He said “Didn’t I
tell you your Inkwells and Moral Codes and Portraits
of Good Men would never hold it down? Why
didn’t you cover it with a Sword or a Machine-gun?”
• ♦
The Making of Drought Victims.
The N. S. Wales Government, which has
found it urgently necessary to raise a couple
of millions mainly for the relief of drought
victims, also finds it so difficult to get the
money that the picture-shows are being im-
plored to harrow the feelings of their pat-
rons with films expipsing the desolation of
the country. This may be a good enough
advertisement for the loan, but it is a shock-
ing advertisement for Australia, and it is a
worse advertisement for that “vigorous pub-
lic works” policy which every vote-buying
Government for many years past has prac-
tised and of which the present Storey
Government approves more cordially than
any. For that policy deliberately and
brutally manufactures drought victims.
Droughts become more frequent in the
papers, not because the weather is any dif-
ferent, but because people are pushed out
where droughts are more frequent. And
they become worse because people are
coaxed out at ruinous cost to where they
are worse. The time has arrived when big
loans are required to save the drought-
stricken, and if the present policy is main-
tained it is reasonable to infer that such
loans will grow bigger and more frequent.
A loan railway now stretches 465 miles west
from Sydney, and there is a completed but
isolated section of 75 miles beyond that, with
another 155 miles (695 miles in all)to be
filled in. There is hardly a County out in the
Far West without fits completed and money-
losing, or its partially-completed and money-
losing, railway. Even Blaxland, with one
human being to seven square miles; and
Tandora, with one to 11 square miles; and
Mossgiel, with one to square miles;
and Manara with one despondent person to
20 miles —even these have their railways.
Cooper county has three lines, two being
parallel and only eight or ten miles apart
at one place; Urana has two; Sturt is going
to have tw r o when the bankrupt Griffith line,
already paralleled by the insolvent Hay
line on the south, is carried on to Hillston.
That Hillston line will run cheek-by-jowl with
the hopelessly non-paying Cargellico rail-
way further north, and that almost runs
into the financially-broke Trida line a little
further north still. But up north, where
the old Sydney congestion party hates to
see population grow lest it should grow r
strong enough to demand access to its own
natural ports—up north where big rivers
like the Richmond, Clarence, Hastings, Mac-
leay, Bellinger and Manning run all the
year round —affairs are quite different.
There, amid a good rainfall and only 40
or 50 miles from the sea, it is possible to
diagnose a solid bloek of six counties with
no raihvay whatever. At one place in this
well-watered, well-timbered region the two
parallel railways, both ignoring the local
ports and heading for Sydney, and wholly
unconnected by cross-lines, lest trade should
pass from one to the other without going
round by Sydney, are 128 miles apart. If
one started from, say, Booberoi or Gugong.
350 miles west of Sydney, and struck south
over the dry, treeless One Horse Plain
for the same distance he would cross three
railways and just bring up against a fourth,
and all the four have to be supported out
of taxation or loans. In spite of the sym-
pathy which the sufferings of the smitten
settlers ought to produce, and in spite of the
admiration which the continent ought to feel
for their struggles, what wonder if there
should be sqme lack of enthusiasm about
the £2,000,000 relief loan of a Government
with such sins on its soul?
, • ——» ——■- - -
The Folly of a Lord Chancellor.
A strong man arose lately i# the "House
of Lords to declare that Britain 1 !! policy as
regards Ireland is one of “No Surrender.”
It was the Lord Chancellor wdio spoke from


T h f Farmers’& Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co.ofA us Js!?
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO.OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the hand.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
. - A :7iA£:VT W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
the foliage of his wig, and as the Lords is a
sympathetic Tory institution where wigs fit
naturally into the landscape, it was the right
place for such a pronouncement. “The policy
of the Government, whether the struggle he
short or long, is to employ the tchole avail-
able resources of Britain to restore law and
order in Ireland, and to render utterly im-
possible the secession campaign at present in
progress.” If the Government has the courage
of what it thinks are its opinions, the
simplest, cheapest volume of world-history
would tell it how to set about the work and
finish it economically inside a year. Shal-
maneser pacified Israel so thoroughly that
the Ten Tribes ceased to give trouble and
are missing to this day. Giiengiz Kiian
did the same with Persia. Paskewicz
in Russian Poland, llaynau in Hungary
and Weyt.er in Cuba did some pacifying.
%oo; but they had few resources, there being
no airships or poison-gas in their day. The
same might be said of Cromwell, who
was also pressed for time. Cromwell,
llaynau, Paskewicz and eo., in addition to
the lack of poison-gas and airships, were
hampered by the fact that they had no
orders to make secession permanently impos-
sible, but only to smother it for the moment
and damp down the fires. Yet in their
small way they produced peace and a blessed
semblance of contentment for quite a while.
The flare-up that came later in each case only
shows that a conquered alien white race, of
reasonable strength and intelligence, and with
fighting instincts, is never wholly pacified
unless it is dead; and if the Chancellor
means what he says about throwing all the
resources of Britain into the job, Ireland
will be dead and the business finished. The
chief drawbacks will be that England will
then sack all its bishops and turn West-
minster Abbey into a picture-show, for it
will feel that it has no more use for an
Established Church or any other church or
for any Hereafter.
Professional Pay: Amateur Work.
A Federal Parliament fresh from the coun-
try has just voted itself large sums from
the Treasury. There is a greater public
objection to this than is involved either in
the extra charge on the taxpayers or in the
atmosphere of distrust which such
manoeuvres tend to create in elective legis-
latures. The major peril to the working
citizen whose earnings support this country’s
innumerable politicians and provide their
steadily-growing perquisites is the strength-
ening effect the uew move is bound to have
on party discipline. Proportional repre-
sentation is evidently not going to kill the
old arrangement under which the nominees
of a fraction over half the Parliament have
the most absolute administrative powers, to
make no mention of their legislative ones.
Now, the party system was never intended
to apply to a phenomenon which is quickly
—and quite logically—developing in Aus-
tralia ; namely, the highly-paid professional
politician. In England, where the system
was born, the M.P. was, till very recent years,
either a rich man “in society,” as the phrase
goes, or a prominent professional or business
figure who looked in on Parliament in his
spare time. Being unpaid, it scandalised
no one that the services of such men should
he of the quality rendered by the average
honorary worker. On the other hand there
was an argument in favor of the apparent
insanity. Men entered Parliament usually
for no reward but the respect of their fel-
lows. And rather than publicly violate
their principles they got out. They were
not penalised by a refusal to answer to the
crack of the party whip. On the contrary,
they went hack to a far easier and more
luxurious life than that of a private member
in London. It is easy, as Becky Sharp
noted, to be virtuous on £IO,OOO a year;
and the party system may be said to have
been devised for politicians with incomes
of that sort. But when a Parliamentarian
has no private means and no lucrative pro-
fession, when ho is paid £IOOO per annum
with travelling allowances and other privi-
leges worth fully another £250 per annum ;
and when he knows that all are almost cer-
tainly terminable on the loss of his party nom-
ination-well, in such circumstances lie is not
the free agent that our imported governmental
method presupposes Parliamentarians to he.
One of the most objectionable off-shoots of the
world-war is the new bureaucracy, which,
having tasted blood under the War Precau-
tions Act, is busy delimiting freedom still.
Born autocrats of the W. M. Hughes type
—-and they exist in all the parties—will
grow in power and authority in exact pro-
portion as the salaries of members. State
or Federal, are increased. So long. that. is.
as the party system is preserved. With its
departure and the institution of elective
Ministries, the initiative and the recall, pay-
ment of members on a generous scale would
be every hit as agreeable to the public as
high payment of Judges. At present Aus-
tralia is paying its Federal politicians—and
will soon, by all the omens, be paying its
State politicians—on a professional scale
and getting cynically amateur work in re-
turn; and by such payment it is helping
to sap the recipients' integrity and independ-
ence. The nation is offered none of the
benefits of a congenitally idiotic system, all
its disadvantages, and a number of others
which Dicey himself never foresaw. llow
long is such a state of affairs to endure?
«.
A Modest Two-inch Advt.
Like a primrose by the river’s brim, South
Australia blushes regularly to the extent of
two inches of space in the Melbourne papers
with the announcement that it will gladly
borrow any money that may be going—no
amount is specified, but presumably S_. Aus.
will take the lot for seven years at 5J per
cent. It is profoundly modest compared
with the hull-roar of Treasurer Lang, of
N. S. Wales, who fills columns of expensive
space with his loan. But then the first
11 mouths of the financial year in Lang’s
State show a deficit of £3,136,000, and
when things get to that point one may as
well be hanged for an elephant as a germ.
The situation of S. Aus. is full of interest.
The old Province (it was never a colony)
covers 380,070 square miles of practically
riverless country. The part with a rain-
fall varying from nothing at all up to 15
inches per annum can’t he regarded as much
security for debt, seeing that it'isn’t mineral
country to any serious extent. That sort
of pastoral and agricultural land just about
pays for its roads, police, schools, charities
and the working expenses of its railways,
and finds even that none too easy. There
BRANDS NOT VISIBLE.
THE MAN: “He pinched, four hundred pounds of the bosses’ money.”
THE WOMAN: “Fancy, and he doesn’t look a bit like a member of Parliament, does he?”
are 351,005 square miles of the above de-
scription of soil in S. Aus. The rest con-
sists of 14,190 square miles with a 15in.
to 20in. rainfall (value moderate) and
14 875 square miles with over 20in. of rain.
This total of 29,065 square miles may be
regarded as security (one-half of it much
better security than the other half) for
£43,000,000 of purely-State debt, which
means about £2 6s. per acre. Possibly if
State, Federal, municipal and private mort-
gages were added together the burden would
be more like £5 per acre. The land, which
includes the big city, is worth a lot of
money, while loans are rolling in to keep
a sort of boom going. That is the case
in all the States. What it will be worth
when loans cease to roll in and what it will
be worth—most horrible thought of all —
when the public creditor asks for repay-
ment and demands that they shall roll out,
is a different matter. If there were
7,000,000 people on the 29,065 miles of
respectable land—Belgium has that number
on 11,373 square miles —the security might
he reckoned in people and not in acres;
but S. Aus. lacks the coal and the iron
and the 1240 miles of navigable waterways
and a good deal of the national versatility,
and its population is only about 450.000.
Whether the total mortgage is guessed at
£4 10s. per reliable acre or £l6O to £l7O
per more or less reliable person, the outlook
is not, strictly speaking, gaudy, though the
intentions of the community are of the best.
It was South Australia’s luck to be founded
and gaily marked out on the map when
only the middle-south coast and south-east
corner were known. This happened to in-
clude the 1048 square miles which enjoys a
30-inch-nnd-over rainfall, also the one river
mouth of the slightest importance, and the
bulk was judged too much by the sample.
Nobody knew then that S. Aus. rejoiced in
the ownership of the one below-sea-level de-
pression that the continent can boast, and
the one real Dead Sea. but without the
picturesqueness that makes the Palestinian
Dead Sea a source of revenue; also that it
was furnished with a prize assortment of
dry salt lakes. In fact, this is typical of
what wasn’t known in Colonel Light’s day :
Area with Over 30in. of Annual Rain.
Square Square
Miles. Miles.
Queensland .. 165,482 1 Victoria.. .. 26,029
N. Territory .. 87,470 1 Tasmania .. 14,689
N. S. Wales .. 53,266 |S. Australia .. 1,048
Westralia .. 44,126 |
S. Australia has never quite got over the
shock of finding itself out. Because its
1048 square miles of 30-inch country and
the somewhat larger area of over-
-20-inch country which formed the ori-
ginal settlement couldn’t provide the
money or credit for huge adventures,
it was driven to surrender the second-best
section of the Commonwealth to the Federal
Parliament in return for a railway which
hasn’t been forthcoming, and the position
is gloomy. It almost looks as if something
was liable to happen, especially as the
interest bill has doubled in the last 21 years
and the rainfall hasn’t. Incidentally, the
figures emphasise the lesson that Australia’s
future lies in the North. It certainly doesn’t
lie beside the ghastly railway that John
Forrest beguiled Australia into building
along the track where the drought-land is
widest, while the generally-fertile Territory
was waiting and neglected.
♦
Vocational Training.
“Copabeixa” from down south: —
Whatever may be the shortcomings of the Repat-
riation Department it is at least trying manfully
to repatriate within itself as many as possible.
At intervals not exceeding a fortnight an inspector
arrives at provincial vocational centres to inspect
something—seldom twice running the same inspec-
tor. There must be a battalion of them, mostly
ex-some-sort-of-officer. There are inspectors of voca-
tional centres, of local branches of repatriation,
of local committees of repatriation, of sectional
branches of vocational training, of stores used in
the same, and general inspectors with roving com-
missions whose duty it seems to be to scratch the
backs of local officialdom. As little change of method
follows inspection, centres may take it their admin-
istration is quite all right—or that the inspectors
duty is to breast the pay-counter regularly and
figure in departmental statistics among the suc-
cesses of repatriation in placing returned soldiers.
Senator Millen’s self-gratulation on the success o:
his Department would wobble a little under strict
analysis—unless, of course, repatriation is to be
numbered under the Commonwealth’s permanent and
reproductive works. . Vocational training, for in-
stance, was intended to be an affair of six months
per man, designed to make up their lost time to
the under-age enlistees who by going soldiering
missed the apprenticeship years in their trades. Yet,
nearly two years after war ceased and repatria-
tion began, vocational training centres in the pro-
vinces are only in the preparatory stage, with quite
new ventures projected. According to the schedule,
training should be about to cease—not to begin.
Whether the whole vast scheme is not camouflage
to hide the sustenance still being given, and to
keep critics of the Government quiet, is a moot
point. A glimpse into a large vocational centre,
in which hundreds of young fellows are engaged-
for, by the conditions of the scheme, all trainees niu-t
be young, and a majority of the instructors are
young, too —discloses always a great proportion of
them on smoke-o while the whole “atmosphere”
of the place, in comparison with that of a pri-
vate industrial shop, is unreal. Things may be
sound, and battalions of young, intensivelv-skiUul
artisans may be pouring forth from the vocational
shops to assist the tariff in making Australia a
commercially-independent nation; but one wonders
whether better workmen, better discipline and better
self-reliance could not have been achieved by arrange-
ment with owners of real manufacturing enterprises,
with a saving to the country of the hundreds of
thousands sunk in vocational buildings, instructors
and inspectors.
It is announced, apparently on authority,
that the infant N. S. Wales Government dis-
approves of the Northern Secession move-
ment and will strongly oppose it. Yet the
North has as much right to secede as Ire-
land has. And the Storey party of 45 in-
cludes Doyle, McKell, F. M. Burke, M.
Burke, Murphy, Buckley, Minahan,
o'Halloran, McTiernan, Connell, Kears-
ley, Dooley, McGirk, Lougiilin, Dunn,
O’Brien, Fitzgerald, Scully, O’llearne,
Flannery, Swiney and Oleary. There is
a pretty solid phalanx of Home Rulers in
that lot so long as it is Dublin, not Tam-
wortli or Grafton, that is complaining, As
it was with that Pious Editor,
I dew believe in Freedom’s cause
As fui- away as Paris is; '
1 love to see her stick her claws
In them infernal Pharisees.
The complaint of the North will lie against
the “base, blanky and brutal Celt” at Syd-
ney unless things alter. It thought that a
Ministry consisting so largely of Dooley,
McGirr, McKell, McTiernan and Lougii-
lin, not to mention Dunn, would have
rushed at it with freedom in both hands. A
sort of plea is that the North should await
a general breaking-up of the overgrown
States, but the best way to hurry that on
is to start at home and start right off. And
what an example it would he to England!
—
Westralia has wheat to sell and N. S.
Wales is a buyer. But Westralia can get
12s. 6d. a bushel in France and Italy, and
it objects to N. S. Wales having its surplus
at 7s. Bd., the fixed price in Australia,
more especially as it is developing a big
export trade in flour —in nine mouths it
has sent away nearly £2,000,(X)0 worth,
chiefly to the East Indies. And there is a
lot to be said for the Westralian point of
view. In 1915, 1916 and 1917 the W.A.
cocky’s wheat was commandeered by the
Hughes Government, and a lot of it went
mouldy through being stacked in the open,
or was eaten by mice and weevils. For
the grain thus destroyed, although it wasn't
his fault, the grower got nothing; for the
residue, he received about 3s. Bd. a bushel
in instalments spread over long periods (the
1915 and 1916 accounts haven’t been squared
yet), and it didn’t pay. The result was that
the area under wheat dwindled from
1.734,000 acres in 1916 to 1.075.000 acres
last year. Now the cocky who hasn’t gone
under reckons that he has made enough sac-
rifices for the incompetent crowd who wasted
part of his wheat and underpaid him for
the balance, and that if his produce is worth
12s. 6d. a bushel he ought to get 12s. (id.
and nothing less. And there is an unplea-
sant glint in his eye when the Wheat Board
suggests a commandeer within a comman-
deer.
-♦
Tile Closer Settlement Board of Vic. has
spent £6,741.470 on land for discharged
soldiers. During May it bought £741.787
worth at from £3 to £52 an acre, averaging
for 134,702 acres slightly over £5 10s. The
banking practice in Victoria has been to
look very carefully at ordinary farming land
when it is valued at over £3 10s. an acre; so
it appears the inflation due to Government
competition with private buyers is about
an acre. It is just this extra capital value
of the land which is likely to cause many
new soldier settlers who are greenhorns in
farming to fail miserably to make their hold-
ings pay. It is a fair question to ask the
Closer Settlement Board when it is likely
to stop buying. So much land is now lying
out of cultivation awaiting allotment that
production is bound to be affected.


The Curvilinear Concentrator
• - v .. ' .
That the extraordinary merits of our new Concentrator, appropriately named the “Curvilinear,” are attracting the attention of
Mining Engineers is proved by the large number of inquiries we receive from the Commonwealth States and other countries.
Space only permits of mentioning some of the Mines which have installed the “Curvilinear.” They are:—
Mount Morgan G.M. Co., Queensland.
Big Bygoo and Bone Hand, Ardlethan
(for its new Mill).
Surprise Lead Mines, West Australia,
Mudlo Copper Mine, Queensland.
Titi Tin Co., Federated Malay States.
Cannindah Copper Co., Queensland
Mount Bischoff Tin Co., Tasmania.
Cherry Tin Mine, Ardlethan.
Waihi River Gold Co., New Zealand.
Po Hing Tin Mining Co., Federated Malay States (for new Plant).
The “CURVILINEAR” Table.—Capacity, 2 tons per hour. Floor space, 14ft. x 4ft. Weight,
6cwt. Power l/10th of lh.p. Extraction, 10 to 20 per cent, higher than other tables.
No wearing mechanism. Practically fool-proof. Commonwealth Patents Nos. 9075, 10414.
Infringers will be proceeded against.
PRICE, ONLY £9O PACKED.
SOLE PATEXTEEfi * MAXL'FACTLREIiS— GUTHRIDGE LTD., 10-12 George Street, Camperdown, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The partial breakdown of the Prince of
Wales in Melbourne is a whole essay on
the fact that hard work is a poor thing if
it is only hard work, and that the mis- .
directed labor of all the Titans for all the
generations may not pay for the repair of
a child’s boots. Shifting hundreds of thou-
sands of tons of goods from one set of
trucks to another at the border where the
break of gauge is; pushing greasy wool
on board a ship and hauling woollen clothes
off it; building railways that everybody
knows are mere devices to supply temporary
employment; sending 12 hulking organisers
(as happened recently in Sydney) to har-
angue the men on one job about the merits
of three rival unions; being a chronic de-
feated candidate for Parliament; profes-
sional strike-promoting, stoking sectarian
fires and a thousand other things of the
sort are hard work. So is receiving addresses
from terraces of mayors, to say nothing of
the waste involved in writing and delivering
them. Yet they don’t lead anywhere —not
even to the gallows or the divorce court.
Some of the propositions that M.L.’s
Labor party will wrestle with at its July
conference: — #
Deletion of the citizen army plank in the Labor
platform.
Repudiation of both conscription and voluntary
armies, with immediate disarmament.
Complete revision of the Treaty of Versailles in
accordance with Truth and Justice —which presumably
means the wishes of the Hun.
Every member of the human race, irrespective
of color to have an equal opportunity to live
the fullest life possible in human society.
Thus if a few million colored members of
the human race decide that Maoriland is the
place where they can lead the fullest life
there must be nothing to stop them —cer-
tainly no army or navy to argue the ques-
tion of equal opportunity. And no compul-
sory unionism either, complete liberty mean-
ing freedom of contract, and immediate dis-
armament implying the entire disruption of
unions’ fighting funds. For a new motto
The Bulletin suggests that the conference
should adopt “Back to the Cave!”
The success of the Federal Parliament’s
raid on the Treasury is said to have filled
the State Legislators of S. Aus. with a
great hope. On their behalf it is pointed
out that they get only the wretched salary
of £2OO a year. It would be a wretched
salary if it were a full-time job. But
if it were a full-time job, then Min-
isters, who have to put in most of their
time at their offices, have no right to be in
Parliament at all —they can’t possibly do
a full-time job and all this other work in
addition.
Theodore, of Queensland, is the latest
Labor politician to disown his child.
He complains that the referendum costs
money (it does), and consumes time (Theo-
dore consumes both), but the real objection
is that it isn’t under Theodore’s thumb.
The referendum expresses what the. people
want (or don’t want), and Theodore’s posi-
tion is that they shouldn’t want more than
he thinks it is good for them to have. In
effect, the referendum is a recovery of power
from the party machine; it delivers the
democracy, for the time being, from the rule
of usurping executives, secret caucuses, poli-
tical confidence-tricksters and rancorous
Tories entrenched in Houses with property
franchises. The “democrat” who renounces
the referendum because its judgments don’t
square with his own opinions (really be-
cause he can’t manipulate it) is two ends
and the middle of a fraud.
Wanted, in view of recent happenings, a
law which will prohibit a politician giving
any part of his salary or any other money
whatever to the party fund; in other words,
a law to prevent the party blackmailing
him of part of his salary. And while it is
on the job the law might also prohibit him
subscribing, during his term of membership,
to any charity, movement or object in his
electorate and make it a crime for any
constituent to apply to him for- a donation.
If the people pay for £lOOO worth of poli-
tics they shouldn’t get £5OO worth of poli-
tics and £5OO worth of tickets for church
socials and dog-shows and party membership.
The statute should apply to the member’s
family as well. It might prevent some men
getting into Parliament, but there, is no
rose without its thorn and not much amber
A DELAYED PRODUCTION.
THE BILLSTICKER : “The public is bound to be a little disappointed, but it served its
purpose .”
without its fly. The raid by party organ-
isers on sundry Federal members for £lOO
out of the £4OO rise should bring this mat-
ter to a head. If any member has more
salary than he can do with, the surplus
should go back to the Treasury where it
came from, not to the nearest or lustiest
beggar.
This long-suffering country allows every
imported - fraud and nuisance to fight his or
her battles in its drawing-room. Tom Walsh,
of the Seamen’s Union, has made two bad
breaks here. First, he threatened, over the
seamen’s strike, to make Melbourne such a
pandemonium of crime and riot that nobody
(save presumably his own gang) would dare
be abroad after sunset. Now he announces
that his crowd will permanently abjure the
defence of Australia unless it receives a
big gratuity per man out of the war-bonus
loan. In the first upheaval, anyhow, Thomas
(imp.) had his wife for a vigorous coad-
jutor. He is probably wilder and more
crass and hostile than he might be because
the land of his ancestors wants its independ-
ence, which Australia can’t give it. The
lady is of the Pankhurst family, which has
been soured and misanthropical since Ma
Pankhurst was gaoled in London for suffra-
getting; and, though Australia has woman-
hood suffrage on the most liberal, basis and
never gaoled Ma Pankhurst in its life, it
has to suffer. Every visitor arriving here
by sea should be searched for grievances
and other concealed weapons.
From the Federal Gallery-man:—
The upshot of the challenged Ballarat election,
long expected by people acquainted with the evi-
dence, is now a reasonable explanation of the hurry
with which the Government pushed the salary grab
through both Houses. By this measure and the in-
evitable uproar it inspired Hughes cleverly stam-
peded the grabbers into his camp. Some move was
necessary to curb the gathering hostility. So Billy
took an audacious course, and for the time being
has scored a triumph. But he has under-rated
the extent of the feeling he has aroused. The slow
mounting of the list of members who are refusing
the extra screw, coupled with the public demonstra-
tions against him, ought to start him revising his
contemptuous opinion regarding- the influence of “the
press and the mob.” ...
Chiding the separatists of Northern N. S.
Wales, S. M. Herald magnanimously admits
that “a city {c.g., Sydney) may be swollen
to an unhealthy size,” but argues that “once
it begins through unwieldly size to become
too expensive a market for country goods,
the country naturally finds another outlet
and other cities arise.” The argument coolly
ignores three essential facts: (1) the other
cities can’t arise without railways; (2) the
railways, being a State monopoly, can’t arise
without votes; and (3) a majority of the
votes are held by people who live and have
their beer or are financially interested in the
aggrandisement of the Bloated City
(specifically, Sydney, Melbourne and Adel-
aide), consequently the railways don’t arise
at all. To the people behind the new move-
ment, separation is the only alternative to
the centralisation blight, which is depopula-
ting the rural areas. They may be wrong,
but it will take more than the quavering
sophistries of the Herald to make them-
believe it.
Vic. Parliament will re-assemble at the
end of the month, and it will depend on the
atmosphere how long it will sit before an
appeal is made to the people. If McPher-
son’s health allows him to continue as
Treasurer, he will not agree to lift members’
screws till the people are consulted. Last
session a rise from £3OO, the present rate,
to £4OO would have been accepted, but £5OO
is now the objective, and a large number of
members will say Aye and chance the howls.
Maoriland expects a surplus of £2,500,000
this year. But it will go on borrowing just
the same. It asks for £2,000,000 straight
away and something really splendid
presently. No mere trifle like a surplus is
allowed to get in the way of the 4oan.
The present Queensland Government, now
in its fifth year, has scored its first convic-
tion for profiteering. The price of sugar
was fixed by proclamation in the Brisbane
Government Gazette, a little-read publica-
tion, ,on Saturday, March 27. On that same
half-day a firm at Maryborough, 167 miles
away by slow train, sold sugar at the old
rate. As the new price wasn’t advertised in
Maryborough, it is probable that other firms
there and elsewhere did the same. But they
weren’t all named Denham. This firm was
named Denham.
Queensland Labor Conference is to con-
sider at Townsville this idea: —
That the Queensland labor movement join the
Third International, thereby becoming part of the
world-wide socialistic movement for the overthrow
of capitalism. That all efforts be made towards
international sentiments, and to break down imayi-
nary boundaries.
So there goes White Australia ! We can't
be “world-wide” with Asia, Africa and half
the population of South and Central America
shut out of the brotherhood. We can’t
break down the boundaries without strange
creatures bounding in. It is the great trea-
son of the ages, and the traitors don’t even
say what is to be gained by it save the grati-
fication of their own largely alien venom.
You can’t hear the boom of the surf on
Barrier Reef for the thunder of the Queens-
land loan boom. In 11 mouths of
cial year it thundered worth £4,156,000,
which is £4,533,000 per annum, which is
£6 IDs. per inhabitant, which is more than
the per capita debt of quite a lot of countries,
and about twice as much as Japan’s. There
has never been a jag like it, and if it stops
suddenly it is going to close-up break
Queensland’s neck. Which explains why
Premier Theodore is so ’umble to Cohen.
From the Gallery :
Suspicion regarding the value of the new tariff
is encouraged by the cry of Jim Page in the House
the other night that the Government, hopes for a
pile of money from the Customs. Joe Cook tacitly
admitted the charge by declaring that the Govern-
ment needed the coin ; so Australian manufacturers
can expect some disappointment when the tariff
gets into committee. As a matter of fact, there are
already indications that the tariff will suffer con-
siderable punishment. What with the Freetrade
leanings of the Cockies, the Government desire for
revenue, and the Laborites’ reluctance to protect
alleged local monopolies, the measure threatens to
become a joy to the Argus and Flinders-lane.
“We are not going to be offensive to the
Progressives or Nationalists and say we
don’t want their support. We are going to
do things that will command their support.”
Thus Premier Storey, of N. S. Wales,
oppressed by the insecurity of his job, having
45 votes in a House of 90. In a situation
somewhat similar, the weather being stormy
and the prospect of the steady job remote,
an elderly Italian politician said:
’Tis not in mortals to command success,
But we’ll do more, Sempronius, we’ll deserve it.
But that was a good many years ago, and
Storey may have better luck than Cato. It
is impossible to imagine Storey hurling him-
self upon his sword, anyhow.
“Protest upheld ; run it over again” is the
substance of the ruling in the Ballarat elec-
tion barney. Justice Isaacs was the
steward, and, incidentally, he gave the
Federal Electoral Department something to
remember him by. For example:—
The case has revealed a great number of official
errors, causing disfranchisement of electors, errors
in some cases due to almost incredible carelessness.
Seven persons qualified to vote were by official errors
prevented from voting. Thirty absent votes were
rejected because the voters had not signed the neces-
sary declarations; in each instance, the presiding
officer not merely allowed this omission to pass un-
corrected, but actually certified that the voter signed
before him. It is difficult to understand how over
20 presiding officers in various parts of Victoria could
sign such a certificate, and it is lamentable that such
carelessness should be exhibited in a matter of such
great public importance. Eight declarations signed
by voters were not attested by the presiding officer.
That was a fatal defect, and displayed great careless-
ness where extreme care was necessary.
In addition to which there was neglect
of a complicated variety, all showing that
the Federal Electoral Department employs
clumsy bunglers and ignorant clods.
All roads lead to the Bloated Capital,
and by all roads come the cocky’s sons and
daughters to join the army of clerks, day
laborers, typists, waitresses and shopgirls to
be fed, clothed, housed and amused. In
1918 Victoria reached the point where more
than half the State’s population inhabited
one overgrown city and the huge wen con-
tinues to flourish while the country decays:
a recent police canvass shows that 457,527
adult Victorians are herded together on
about 170,000 acres in Greater Melbourne,
whereas only 387,038 electors could be mus-
tered on the 56,075,760 other acres of Vic-
toria. And the two most populous country
electorates, Dandenong (16,690) and Morn-
ington (15,312), are virtually outer suburbs
of Melbourne. Incidentally, Boroondara
has 46,753 electors and Grenville only 4782,
but that is an anomaly of no importance
compared with the other.
For the past 18 months or so the staff at
Federal Parliament House has been agitat-
ing for what it reckons to be a minimum
living-wage. On the same day that the latest
petition was forwarded to those responsible
for dealing with this little matter, members
raised their own screws to £lOOO a year, on
the grounds that they could not make both
ends meet decently on the old £600; but
the staff’s wage-problem is still “under con-
sideration.”
PRECEPT AND PRACTICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Press and public excluded... .Compensation sug-
gested for I.W.W. prisoners Not another grain of
wheat to be exported... .Nationalist organiser dis-
covered and violently ejected.” — Items from N. S.
Wales Labor Conference.
Flushed with our recent triumph at the poll,
With leather lungs and throats a trifle raucous,
We meet, for reason’s feast and flow of soul,
In annual caucus.
We are the People’s reps., and for their Korz
We’d rather dote on being burnt to cinders;
But lest they wander in we lock the doors
And bar the winders.
We hold that the producer should retain
His labor’s full result —yes, even jockeys;
And therefore we propose to grab the grain
Of Groper cockies.
The purity of Justice is our pride,
But Bolshies with their feculent flapdoodle
Intrigue us, so deliver those “inside”
And give them boodle.
The public debt has scandalously grown,
It menaces our future, dims our glory,
But city jobs are scarce. Another loan,
Please, Mr. Storey!
The flower of Freedom, Toleration’s fruit,
We make the bigot cringe, the tyrant shiver!
What? An opponent here? Put in the boot!
Tear out his liver!
N'.S.W.
B.


THE BARRAGE.
"The dear boy — he shan’t mix with .such people: he shall only reach them over our bodies.”


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
BHAS
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms —
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead,
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated). Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products —
Antinionial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Rearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead, Lead Drosses. Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLIN'S STREET. MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS. EC. 2
A. -1. SMITH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O'CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BUOOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
Tffe Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
3 n 0
"■■2 m
X « 2
•** E fc
0 0 +*
<► *
oj « rt
« Q O
ELECTRIC STEEL
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
We make a Feature of Specially Heat-treated Steel Castings for Ore
Crusher and Rock Breaker Parts. Battery and Mill Liners. Stamper
Shoes and Dies, Cams, Heads, Tappets, Ring Dies. Tramway Tyres.
Toughened Steel Truck Wheels. We can supply any quality hitherto
imported.
ALT, STAGES OF MANUFACTURE UNDER MODERN SCIENTIFIC CONTROL.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
Telegraphic Address: ‘‘Electric Steel." ALEXANDRIA. SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of Adelaide (S. Australia) :
To Re- Ke-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1908 . . £56,510 9 p.c. = £36,000 £20,510 £326,014
1909 . . 52,694 94 ~ „ 38,000 14,694 340,708
1910.. 66,130 10 „ 40,000 26,130 366,838
Premiums on new shares.. 50,000 416,838
1911 .. 79,648 10 p.c. = 45,000 34,648 451,486
1912.; 80,59“ 10 „ „ 5T),000 30,598 482,084
1913.. 81,1-38 10 ~ 50,000 31,138 513.222
1914.. 71,946 10 ~ „ 50,600 21,946 535,168
1915 . . 53,023 9 „ ~ 45,000 8,023 543.191
1916 . . 49,806 8 „ „ 40,000 9,806 552,997
Written off, £12,997 .. 540,000
1917 .. 56,173 8 p.e. = 40,000 16,173 556,173
1918.. 71,355 10 „ „ 5(1.000 21,355 t r „ Q
Voted to Provident Fund, £lO,OOO | ;,t>, ’ !> “ 8
1919.. 69,349 10 p.c. = 5#,000 19,349 ) ro „ Q^r .
.Written off premises,. £3OOO .. r 583,8/<
1920 .. 87,694 10 p.c. = 50,000 37,694 { r7l
Written off premises, £5OOO .. j vio,o/i
The Bank of Adelaide holds its ground well
against all-comers. At March ill last, of
total S. Aus. deposits of £20,311,198. it was
taking care of 5s millions, the Common-
wealth Bank of 4) millions (there may
have been much Government money in that),
and the National of Australia of 3$ mil-
lions. The Bank of Adelaide no longer
restricts itself to the Middle State: to catch
the profits from exchanges a branch was
opened in Sydney over a year ago, and in
January of this year the management
secured a footing in Melbourne, the business
and premises of the old Australian Deposit
and Mortgage Bank being acquired “on
favorable terms.” So far the Bank of Adel-
aide has not attracted depositors to any
extent in either capital—at March 31
£25.297 was held in Sydney and £175,518
in Melbourne—but the directors consider
prospects of expansion so good that they
are inviting shareholders to put. up a further
£125.000, making the 125,000 £5 shares
fully paid.
Twelve months ago The Bulletin re-
marked that, with the disappearance of some
of the disabilities which S. Aus. experienced
during the war-period, this bank’s profits
should move ahead of previous records. They
have: last year’s net profits were equal to
1(1 p.c. of paid capital. Still its disclosed
net earnings have not advanced to the same
extent as those of most banks in the Eastern
States, and its profits during the war-period
showed a greater falling-off. South Aus.
not nearly so well placed as Vie. and
N. S. Males to share the artificial prosperity
created by war-loan spendings; this fact
is well demonstrated by the proportionately
smaller expansion of deposits. The slump
m profits may have been partly due to the
management having made unusually large
provisions against; contingencies: anyhow.
1_ months ago tiic chairman declared that
“every account had been reviewed and
ample provision made for possible loss.”
Some big changes have taken place in the
balance-sheet figures during the past 12
months: —
Liabilities.
19X4. 1918. 1919. 1920.
Notes .. £12,822 £8,014 £7,747 £7.519
Bills, etc... 320.311 273,546 ~223,246 293,106
Deposits . . 4.834,739 4,591,817 5,365,076 6,380,056
Assets.
Liquid assets 2,988,615 2,851,659 2,176,522 4,342,048
Advances . . 3,128,104 3,023,097 4,424,338 3,327,451
Premises, etc. 111,321 101,149 104,086 157,753
A year ago £1,796,320 of the total assets of
£6.704,940 was represented by wheat
advances, for the Bank of Adelaide was then
carrying no less than one-eleventh of the
Australian Wheat Board’s total liabilities.
At March 31 last wheat advances had been
reduced to £428,815. Meantime ordinary
advances increased £270,168. Total ad-
vances fell off by £1,096,887. And except
for the £53,667 invested in new premises
in Sydney and Melbourne, the whole of this
and the £1,084,612 of additional money en-
trusted to its care had been set aside in
more or loss liquid form. Put another way,
at March 31 last, apart from the Govern-
ment-guaranteed wheat advances, no less
than 65 p.c. of all liabilities to the public
was held liquid—an unusually heavy pro-
portion. Regarding the wheat advances as
liquid the proportion is increased to 71 p.c..
which is probably a record for Australian
banking. And since it held under £6 of the
public’s_money for each £ of its own (with
the £125.000 of new capital the proportion
would be reduced to £5 7s. Bd.), the bank
is in this exceptionally strong position: (1)
the management can meet seven-tenths of
its trusts with cash. coin, bullion and Gov-
eminent paper without squeezing a penny
from its borrowing customers ; (2) for every
£1 due to creditors and not met by those
liquid assets it has over 325. of advances
and premises (book value). At one time
it would not have paid a management to
tie up so large a proportion in liquid assets;
but Government loans bearing high interest
have altered that. Five years ago this bank
held £471,305 of public securities; at the
latest balance it had £2,079,105 (written
down to present market values), and if they
averaged only p.c. they would provide an
income of £93.560. Because of its present
great strength, the Bank of Adelaide is well
placed to expand its connections and also to
assist legitimate enterprise. Just at present,
however, owing to large payments on account
of wool and wheat in London, much cash
is tied up there —temporarily invested in
high-interest short-dated loans —awaiting
transfer to Adelaide. This partly explains
the extraordinarily large proportion of liquid
assets and the increased holding of public
securities.
The Intercolonial Investment, Land
and Building Co. (Sydney) :
To He- Ke-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1910. . £13,691 10 p.c. =£5,190 £8,501 £64,514
Transferred to capita), £5807 .. 58,707
1911.. 24,624 10 p.c. = 6,301 18,323 77,030
Transferred to capita), £9670 .. 67,360
1912.. 33,737 16 p.c. = 12,760 20,977 88,337
Transferred to capital, £9308 .. 79,029
1913.. 35,351 12* p.c. = 11,209 24,142 103,171
Transferred to capital, £39,774 .. 63,397
Cash bonus distributed, £145 .. 63,252
1914.. 30,263 8 p.c. = 10,482 19,781 83,033
1915.. 30,556 9 „ ~ 11,790 18,766 101,799
Transferred to capital £26,057 .. 75,742
Cash bonus distributed, £147 .. 75,595
1910.. 34,789 9 p.c. = 14,136 20,653 96,248
1917.. 36,016 104 „ ~ 16,492 19,524 115,772
1918.. 37,605 10 „ „ 15,708 21,897 137,669
Transferred to capital, £78,373 .. 59,296
Reserves disappeared, £164 .. 59,132
1919.. 39,305 9 p.c. = 21,190 18,115 77,247
Apl.,
1920.. 21,222 10 „ ~11,772 9,450 86,697
There was a vacancy on the Intercolonial
Board recently, but instead of appointing a
gilded somebody with little or no experience
of the business, as so often happens in public
cos., the directors invited public-accountant
,T. P. Lareombe, who, they say, has an “in-
timate knowledge” of the co.’s affairs, to the
seat. Such business-like and safety-first
methods have made the Intercolonial prQb-
ably the most successful land and building
co. in the Commonwealth. How very suc-
cessful it has been is illustrated by the
rapidity with which capital has been in-
creased by bonus issues and the wide margin
which still remains after paying 10 p.c. divs.
on the lot. Ten years ago paid capital
stood at £“>0,122 : it is now £235,447, and
of that £179,325 increase no less than
£168,989 represents capitalised profit. Take
the table back a further 10 years and there
is a rattle of the dry bones of the boom
days, for things had gone so badly with the
co. that some shareholders at that stage actu-
ally forfeited their capital rather than pay
calls. Profits first began to leap 10 years
ago, and that coincides with the time the
effects of the N. 8. Wales Labor Ministry’s
loan policy began to make themselves felt.
Between 1905-10 N. S. Wales had gone to
Cohen for slightly over 10 millions; during
the next five years over 35 millions of loans
were splashed; and since then a further 20
millions or so. That shameful borrow-
ing orgy was alone sufficient to bring
custom to the building cos. and in-
flate land and house-property values.
But heaped upon the flow of paper
from the State Treasury have been the huge
War Loan spendings of the Commonwealth
Government. So people who have been
buying land wholesale and selling it in small
slices retail on the t.-p. plan not only have
realised with ease at enhanced prices, but
also have had no difficulty in collecting instal-
ments and interest; or. if there have been
any defaulters, there have always been other
purchasers in the offing.
For these reasons, and because the Inter-
colonial has been blessed with good manage-
ment. the very handsome profits are not
so astonishing. The one striking feature
about the co. has been that it has shown these
results without at any time holding large
parcels of land. Just after war began only
£53.646 of its total funds of £214,050 was
in freeholds, and they included valuable city
premises. Two years ago this item had been
reduced to £43,207, but lias since moved to
£51,201. If trouble happened along there
would thus be very little idle land on the
co.’s hands. The big item, of course, is
“Purchasers’ and borrowers’ balances” shown,
less suspense accounts, at £247,915. The
nature or amount of these suspense accounts
is not disclosed, but if would be very sur-
prising if. during its years of almost embar-
rassing affluence the.astute management had
not made substantial provisions for con-
tingencies. Even if these provisions and
the instalments paid on any properties which
might be thrown back on the co.’s hands did
not fully cover any depreciation, share-
holders’ greatly-enlarged gift-capital should
be safe, for there are still reserves of £86,697
(representing 35 p.c. of the book value of
Joan balances) which would have to go
before capital would be affected. From
another point of view the Intercolonial is
particularly .snug: it is working almost
wholly on its own funds. At April 30 .last
it h(d(l only £15,341 of deposits, and all
liabilities to the public were more than
covered by War Loan holdings alone. So,
no matter how desperate the position might
become, the management would have no
creditors clamoring at its doors, and the co.
would thus be able to nurse its assets until
the trouble cleared. There is no other
building co. in the Commonwealth so in-
vulnerable. Its future The Bulletin will
not attempt to forecast: all this paper can
say is that the co. has grown fat directly as a
result of conditions created by vote-catching
politicians, who have done more damage to
the Commonwealth by trading away its credit
than all the Herrs and Vons Who are being
deported. This, however, is certain: the
borrowing boom lias run its course, and un-
less everybody gets to work to provide the
continent’s current financial demands and
meet its huge liabilities there is going to be
trouble. And inevitably if there is trouble
land and building cos. will be among the first
to feel the jolts.
The Country Producers’ Seeling Co..
Ltd. (Sydney)
Bonus
to Con-Written Re-
March, Profit. Dividend. signors. Off. serves.
1912. . £3,59-0 5 p.c. =£9B4 £869 £1,077
1913.. 6,975 7 i „ ~ 1731 2872 3,449
1914.. 9,058 8 „ „ 2000 4237 £lOOO 5,270
1915.. 6,081 7 „ „ 1750 3498 500 5,603
1916.. 9,479 7 „ ~ 1750 5295 1000 7,037
1917.. 9,081 7 „ „ 1750 4826 1000 8,542
1918.. 8,626 7 „ „ 1750 5383 500 9,535
1919.. 9,067 7 „ ~1750 5208 500 11,144
1920. . 15,186 8 „ 2000 8092 1000 15,238
This more or less co-operative concern has
now been in business 10 years. It had a
big turnover almost from the jump, but
owing to drought and other troubles it is
handling less than it used to, as this com-
parison shows: —
Wool Gross
(bales). Sheep. Cattle. Earnings.
1912 .. 32,046 319,316 14,208 £19,212
1915 .. 41,961 385,918 24,123 29,721
1919 . . 38,301 237,842 10,160 44,024
1920 . . 35,998 287,138 12,314 49,158
Meantime, however, the produce department
has been rapidly expanding ; and because of
that and the much better prices received for
wool and other things, commission earnings
have grown considerably, wherefore, not-
withstanding heavier expenses, net profits
for the past year were easily the best yet.
Over 53 per cent, of these profits are
handed back to the producers in the form of
a 20 p.c. rebate, reducing the actual com-
mission charge to 2 p.c. Last year’s rebate
was £BOO2. and in 10 years the co-operators
have had a total benefit in this way of
£40.250. Meantime shareholders (probabh
mostly co-operators) have had an average
div. of almost 04 n.c. p.a. (for the first year
no div. was paid), and £15,238 of reserves
have been accumulated. Including share-
holders’ capital of £25,142, after current
dividend and commission-rebate distribu-
tions there were total funds of £40,380.
Liabilities amounted to no less than
£131,028 : £115.028 due to sundry creditors
and £IG,OOO owing on mortgage on the co.'s
Pyrmont stores. The big item, however, is
almost wholly due to the Government wool-
pool operations, for at March 31 the Central
Wool Committee owed the co. £101,438. So,
despite the magnitude of its liabilities, the
co. is in a comfortable position. It has a
good record, and there should be still plenty
of room for expansion, despite the com-
petition of other co-operative cos. now
in the same field.
The Electric Light and Power Supply
Corporation, Ltd. (Sydney) :
Writ-
. Tune, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. Deficit.
1911 .. £2.510 2.V p.c. =£1,075 £1,061 £11,852
1912 . . 5,576 6 ~ ~ 2,580 1,844 10,700
April.
1913 . . 5,824 7 „ „ 2,508 1,840 ) „
Debenture exes., £527 j s,n>l
June,
1914 .. 11,449 31 p.c. = 1.795 6,340 ) . ,
Debenture exes., £7640 ) '
April,
1915 .. 13,621 7 p.c. = 5,997 5,300) 19 „- 7
Debenture exes., £504 ) ' ''
1910 .. 21,151 8 p.c. = 11,953 7.500 10,559
1917 . . 25,300 8 ~ „ 14,007 9,209 8.469
1918 . . 31,202 8 ~ „ 17,088 10,200 4,555
Reserves.
1919 .. 38.598 8 „ „ 19.868 7,010 6,565
1920 . . 42,987 8 „ „ 20,488 8,454 20,610
This co. now balances once instead of twice
each year, so the table has been remodelled
to show results for terms of 12 months.
The E. L. and I*. S. Corp. is the Sydney
City Council Electric Light Department’s
only competitor: the private co. has cap-
tured municipalities which would otherwise
have been fields for the City Council. It
began over 12 years ago. securing certain
rights under a special Act in return for fur-
nacing Balmain’s garbage. Lately the
Leichhardt municipality decided to deal
from it, and that extension marks about
the limit of the Corp.’s street-lighting opera-
tions. Having secured its footing in the
Western Suburbs, the future depends on
increasing the roll of private consumers.
Good progress is being made in that direc-
tion : at April 30 there were 7590 of them,
an increase of 1415 for the 12 months.
Prospects are considered so good by the
directors that big additions are to be made
to plant. To meet this expenditure the
present nominal capital of £300.000 (of
which £256,100 has been got in) is to be
increased to half a million.
The co. is now paying S p.c. with ease:
but costs have soared so much that the
management now remarks that the move-
ment “cannot go on for ever without the
price of electricity being increased.” The
Sydney City Council Electric Light Depart-
ment has lately been working at a loss, and
is approaching Parliament for power to put
up its tariffs; the Corporation is likely
to follow suit shortly. It is very unlikely
that the Corp. will ever give its share-
holders more than a fair return on their
investment, for under its Act the municipali-
tios which it serves have the right to acquire
the enterprise at valuation, and it must also
charge no more than the City Council
charges its customers. There \yis some talk
amongst aldermen a couple of years ago of
taking over the whole outfit, but it was
generally decided that, since the co. was
doing its work well and economically, it
would not, to say the least, be advantageous
to interfere. So long as the Corp. continues
to provide efficient service at rates which
compare favorably with those of the big
City enterprise, its life seems safe enough.
Its position should be secure even if, by good
management, it were able to give shareholders
sometliing better than 8 p.c. while satisfy-
ing its consumers. Its present management
is a very solid one, and its chairman of
directors is Claudes Oliver, one-time Chief
Railway Commissioner for N. S. Wales.
So far £343.082 has been spent on land,
plant, etc., and to cover depreciation of these
fixed assets a reserve of £57,586 has been
accumulated. Besides the £256,100 of paid
capital there is £50.000 of 54 p.c. deben-
tures. The co. is in a very comfortable
position, for only £10,413 is owing on
sundry accounts, and there are liquid assets
totalling £67.209. Altogether £28,510 of
visible nominal reserves has been accumu-
lated. but. since the assets include. “rights”
for which £7500 was paid and £4OO rep-
resenting balance of debenture flotation
exes., actual reserves amount to the £20,610
shown in the table.
* * * *•
The Co-operative Insurance Co. of Aus-
tralia, Ltd.—Eighteen months ago two Vic.
co.-op. farmers’ concerns—the Gippsland and
Northern and the Western District cos.—de-
cided to establish an insurance office to carry
their risks. So the C.I.C. of Vic., Ltd., was
started with each of the two cos. putting up
£15.000 (3000 shares of £5 each). But they
struck trouble from the outset, for the Vic.
underwriters refused to have any truck with
people who threatened to do business at cost
price. Consequently the C.I.C. was unable
to lay-off any of its risks locally. After
some trouble, however, re-insurance arrange-
ments were made in London, and the co. got
to work. But the co-op. management did
not take exclusion from the underwriters
quietly ; deciding that it was a direct chal-
lenge to the co-op. movement, it launched
a campaign against; the underwriters, who.
after a tooth-and-nail fight over several
months, decided to give way and admit it.
Underwriting facilities are thus now avail-
able to it throughout the Commonwealth.
Shortly after the establishment of the co.
the directors decided that it would be ad-
vantageous to extend operations to other
States, so its title was changed to the
C.I.C. of Australia, Ltd. The Victorian
Butter Factories Co-op. has linked up (the
three Vic. cos. representing 25.000 share-
holding producers), and the South Aus. Far-
mers’ Union (with its 14,000 constituents)
has provided the nucleus for a S. Aus. branch.
Arrangements are now being made to invade
other States, though in N. S. Wales there
are already two more or less co-op. farmers’
offices at work, one operating independently
and the other in the F. and G. Co-op. stable.
For the 12 months to March 31 last gross
premiums amounted to £21,251, of which
£7OlO was laid out in re-insurances. Claims
called for only £1689, and exes, absorbed
£0477, the latter equal to 45 p.c. of net
premiums. After writing £255 off prelimi-
nary expenses the year’s surplus amounted
to £0922, of which £2lOl goes to pay a 7 p.c.
div., and the balance is put to an unexpired
risks reserve, which, with the £630 brought
forward from the previous balance, now
amounts to £5451. When the accounts
closed paid capital stood at £32,270 —it has
since been increased to £4s,77o—and of the
total assets of £41.543 no less than £.39,80 •
was in public securities and cash balances.
Profits are to be cut up in this way: (1*
shareholding cos. are first to receive not less
than 7 p.c. on their capital (evidently there


If your house is wired for electricity, and you are
having trouble with your door-bell because of ex-
hausted batteries, you are being annoyed needlessly.
The famous little Wayne Bell Kinging Transformer
will ring your door-bells with the same current that
lights your house, and will need no further attention
after once being installed. Come in and see it
demonstrated. Australian General Electric Company,
corner Wentworth Avenue and Gpulburn Street, Syd-
ney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne. —Advt. [4
* * * *
Experience is an oculist that sometimes cures blind
faith. Experience with “Adamax” Asphaltum Roof-
ing gives builders everywhere absolute faith in its
lasting qualities, and superiority in every roofing
essential. “Adamax” is easily handled—costs less
than galvanised iron, less for freight and less to
lay. In addition “Adamax” will not pinhole or
rust, whilst acids do not affect it. Write for free
booklet, get full information. William Adams and
Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and
Adelaide.---Advt. LI
-K- * * . *
The latest copper-smelting plant to be erected in
Australia is that of the Mount' Cuthbert Company
in North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power-
plant with boilers, generating sets and blowers,
blast furnace, copper converters and converter re-
fining plant, blister gathering and cleaning shed,
also steel bins for ore and coke. Wherever possible
the plant is electrically driven. The whole of the
plant was supplied by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne, who have made numerous smelting
plants working in Australia at present.— Advt. [2
♦ * * *
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe. —Letter received from
Table Cape Municipality, Council Chambers, Wyn-
yard, dated 19th August, 1914: “The five miles 60
chains of Bin. wood pipes (for pressures of 350 ft.
head) which were supplied by you for the Wynyard
waterworks, have proved to be very satisfactory.
They are giving good results. Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) H. K. Littler, Town Clerk.” Send for our
illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Company, Ltd., (H. 0.) Burns Bay ltoad, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and Foots-
eray, Victoria. Contractors to all State Govern-
ments.— Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * - »
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 6035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. (London); Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work ; contractors advised ; railway work.
00 Queen-street, Melbourne.'— Advt.
The manufacture of ‘Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both maiine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise desefves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
Tasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Sydney.—
Advt.
* * • •
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained, Coli.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne. ’ ’ —A dvt.
* * • •
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B. Selby /t Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), S.vdney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt.
Metropolitan-Vickers Electrical Co., Etd.
Metropolitan-VicKers
Rateau Impulse Type Steam Turbines
HIGH ECONOMY,
fgjf
SIMPLE DESIGN.
STURDY CONSTRUCTION.
As the largest builders of Steam Turbines in Great Britain, we are in the position to give
early delivery of Steam Turbines and Turbo-Sets up to 35,000 Kilowatts.
icKers
coutrt*
CLECTRICM.
Australian Offices—
84 William Street, Melbourne.
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
WorksTrafford Park, Manchester,
England.
• AINSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in
Australia.
Losses from Fire, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation, Motor
Car, Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock* Crops,
Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Bates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PRO3IPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY. J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
is to be no limit to their div. rate) ; (2)
any surplus then remaining is to be sliced
in proportion to the amount of business
written in each State, then further sub-
divided in proportion to the volume of pre-
miums received from co.-op. cos. and from
non-shareholders. The surplus estimated to
have been derived from the shareholding
cos.’ insurances is then to be distributed in
proportion to premiums paid, and the profits
from non-shareholders’ business divided
equally among all the shareholding cos.
* * * *
The round-table conference called by the
N.S.W. Government to end the Broken Hill
strike was an utter failure. Justice
Edmunds presided; and if, after opening the
proceedings, he had withdrawn and left the
two parties (who are both sick of the busi-
ness) to themselves, it might have been
a lot better for everybody. As it is, the
wedge between the two has been driven in
further. Nothing definite can be done now
till the receipt of the report of the Commis-
sion appointed to inquire into the physical
effects of work in and about the mines. It
should be in the Government’s hands by
the end of this month—a preliminary re-
port sufficient the purpose, at any rate
—and then the ground will be much clearer
than it is now for negotiation. Meantime,
however, there is work which the Board
of Trade might do. It might obtain, for
the information of the public and the work-
men, particulars of the effect of certain pro-
posed alterations of wages and conditions —
effect, that is to say, on the life of the
mines, and therefore on the amount of work
that will be available.
* * * *
Geologists Andrews and Harper, of the
Mines Department, have had a look at the
recent rich find 100 ft. below the old tunnel
at Hill End (N.S.W.), and though both.
Harper in particular, have declared for
several years that there are likely chances
in the field at depth, they evidently were not
much impressed. They disclose tliut the
high values are mainly in a thin seam of
arsenical pyrites “averaging about 2Jin. at
the uppermost portion and tapering to Jin.
in width Bft. below.” They add :
It is not an uncommon practice among engineers
sampling deposits to reject all such rich assays as
occur in small, rich patches like that under con-
sideration. With rich, free gold showing over short
lengths, they not uncommonly refuse to sample
such stone.... The ordinary method of regarding a
similar occurrence in large gold-mines elsewhere
would be to consider it as affording a small margin
of safety for blanks ahead, or as a small reserve
for enriching the inevitably poorer patches to be
met later on.
In a field of the dimensions of Hill End
such a patch, they declare, should be “re-
garded in its true perspective” and should
not be allowed to “assume undue propor-
tions in the scheme....An examination of
the small exposure seen by us strongly sug-
gests that there is no sound business reason
to allow shares of a co. with a large capital
to be affected at all materially by such a
discovery.” The pity is that the public was
not cautioned earlier. However, high talk
unsupported by figures still proceeds. The
other day Marshall shareholders were called
together so that chairman D. M. Marshall
might blow T off steam to the effect that his
“honest belief” was that “they had the
wealth of another Haw'kins Hill.”
One of the pleasantries attaching to recent
events is the difference of opinion as to
the terms of Amalgamated’s tribute agree-
ment, which expires on August 11 next. That
show, backed by legal opinion, declares that
it is liable for royalties of only 2J p.c. of
gross gold winnings. The Marshall co., also
backed by legal opinion, holds that the agree-
ment provides a sliding scale of 2J p.c. on oz.
stone, graduating to 50 p.c. on 20oz. stuff.
Amalgamated suggests a “friendly confer-
ence” to decide the delicate point. If this
is unsuccessful, it is possible that the patch
of “phenomenal richness” —assaying as high
as 16530 z. to the ton, but which the geologists
say “may yield £1000; it may yield more” —
will go mostly to feed horsehair.
* * * *
Great Cobar (N.S.W.) has secured a
further six months’ suspension, as from
April 29, on its Amalgamated Cobar Gold
and Chesney leases. The Warden was told
that owing to various troubles esti-
mates had been so affected that the ambi-
tious scheme previously set before him would
require recasting. The receiver had prac-
tically agreed to this scheme, but before
committing himself to any big expenditure
sought information as to values in the
winzes being sunk (very slowly) from the
No. 5 level in the Cobar Gold mine. This
work has so far been disappointing, only
one winze showing payable values. Accord-
ing to the amended scheme, by utilising the
50hd. of stamps, with certain alterations
and additions to cost £50,000, and allowing
an additional £30,000 for working capital,
the 2J years’ work on ore in sight is esti-
mated to give a 15 p.c. return on capital on
the basis of electrolytic copper at £lOO.
The Warden, in allowing the suspension, told
David Fell, the receiver's representative,
that he was not prepared to grant suspen-
sions indefinitely, and that before yielding
any further time he would require something
very special in the way of excuses. As
great importance is being placed on values
in the winzes, it is up to the management
to make a little more speed in sinking, as
until such time as crosscuts go in it is im-
possible to gauge the extent of the ore
bodies or of values.
* * * *
Cobar Gladstone (N.S.W.) has been
forced to close again, this time on account
of inability to get its ore treated. But
the co. has been slowly but surely getting
bogged for some time, and it is very doubt-
ful if it will operate again. It is a good
little copper show, which will probably yet
make a name for itself when capital can
be induced to provide new plant, and when
it is put under good management.
* * * *
The Zinc Corporation, by cable, sets out
its 1919 profits at £77,377. Production hav-
ing been confined to the first couple of
months of the year, most of the profits no
doubt represented settlements on previous
deliveries. The prefs. have had their £49,138,
but the participating div. is passed. Re-
serves at Dec. 31 were estimated at 2,114,G00
tons, going 2.6 oz. silver, 14.6 p.c. lead and
9.4 p.c. zinc.
Gordon Lyon’s Adelong Creek (N.S.W.)
is doing the right thing in devoting most of
its gold premiums to wiping out its deben-
ture debt. This at one time stood at
£12,000, but, by trading off a block of its
holding to Collins House for shares and cash
—thus bringing to light the Adelong Estates
—it equipped its lease and got on to the
div. list. Profits have been used to put No.
2 dredge on the mine, so that now the eo.
has two plants at work, its debenture debt
is wiped out, and it has six or seven years’
clear run on the last of the gutter towards
the Estates boundary.
Block 10 Misima (Papua) started off
with a subscribed capital of 150,000 shares
of 20s. each. Since then there have been
two additions of ss. each, and at Dec. 31
last £211,458 of the £225,000 callable, repre-
senting 295. per 30s. share (less forfeited
shares), had been spent and the co. had an
empty till and owed over £9OOO. Shipping
strikes have interfered with operations, and
the mine was isolated altogether for over
three months lately. Meantime the show is
gradually being knocked into shape; full
equipment for the new plant should be in
hand shortly, and the co.’s tramway is on
the last lap. During the six months to Dec.
31 the two Huntington mills were fed with
3100 tons ore, which gave £3232, the aver-
age recovery being 20s. lid. per ton. Since
three-fifths of the ore came from develop-
ment this average is no guide to the run of
the mine. Additional development work
done during the half carried estimated ore
reserves up to 200,000 tons, averagifig 325.
Extraction and treatment costs of the 3100
tons handled ran into 275. 2.5 d.; add the
9s. 9d. per ton charged to development and
the term’s costs totalled almost 375. per
ton. The result was a loss of £3911, swell-
ing the P. and L. debit balance to £19,578.
* * • •
Bendigo Amalgamated has, been in luck at
the Constellation. A month ago Moline
thought that yields might get back to an
average of under 100 s. per ton ; instead, the
1341 tons hauled during the four weeks to
May 16 gave 37910 z., or an average of 2265.
At first values did slide to 1175., but then
they gradually improved, until the 356 tons
handled during the fourth week went 2775.
Since then Constellation has been making
new records. “Some of the patches,” says
the monthly report, “are so rich that it is
exceedingly difficult to estimate values, a
few trucks sometimes containing lOOoz.”
These unexpected enrichments have the
management mystified, and it refuses to guess
what is ahead. Though the high yields have
“gone beyond expectations,” the working-
faces do not threaten any sudden falling-off
in values. So, while Moline declares that it
“is not reasonable to anticipate many mpre
yields of IOOOoz. or over per week,” he
concedes that such shocks are “by no means
impossible.” Recent work at the'673ft. in-
termediate has not improved prospects there,
though further driving north should get into
touch with the good stone going down at
622 ft. Meantime, in McDuff’s the cap has
been _ cut 63ft. in at 558 ft., and colors are
showing up ; the next few weeks’ work will
be full of interest and should give the co.
a fair idea of its chances there. So far
nothing has come of the Central Blue reef
in the Hercules, values still failing to get
into the pay class. In the Unity, hopes of
an extensive deposit at 1255 ft. which would
provide battery feed for years have been
practically shattered. About a year’s pro-
duction of stone averaging probably 28s.
is the best anticipated now. Carlisle has
become the poorest of the nine producing
shafts, its grade working out at only Bs. 6d.
lately; so operations there are to be cur-
tailed. Bendigo Amalgamated’s first div. (a
sixpenny) is to be distributed on June 30.
The site of the Vic. brown coal town has
been tentatively decided upon by Kernot,
Harper and Brittingham, representing the
Railways, Elec. Commissioners and Public
Works. It is certain that the line from
Morwell to Moe will be re-laid at the back
of 'the ’Aunted ’llls, so that the new town
will be on the main line to Sale instead
of at the end of a cockspur.
* * * *
George Lansell’s old favorite, new Red,
White and Blue, Bendigo, is raising better
stone from the 1700 ft. level. At 440 ft. south
of the shaft the slide has been broken through,
and the stone carries more gold. Besides rising
to the 1600 ft. level dead work will be kept
going south, where the co. has a big area of
ground to develop. The reef is large, with
a cap over 20ft. wide, and it extends to a
height of nearly 200 ft. Spurs have been
worked for 900 ft. south on the 1600 ft. level
of an average of 6dwt., which is payable.
The Westralian Government has gazetted
its new regulations governing co. flotations.
No application for a mining lease or transfer
will be entertained unless the Articles of
Association and all contracts are submitted
beforehand for inspection. In future any
proposed co. will have to satisfy the Minister
that it is able to perform its obligations
under which a lease is granted.
# * * *
Other means having failed, diviners have
been set to work to find lodes around
Hampton Plains. Several devices, ranging
from the simple twig to complicated boxes
of tricks which ring and buzz when held
above where ore-bodies are alleged to exist,
are being used, and the number of gold-
bearing formation* that have been “located”
by diviners to date would probably run into
three figures. Even the Government is pat-
ronising the foolishness by assisting pros-
pectors to sink on spots selected by diviners.
* * * *
The exodus from Hampton Plains con-
tinues. Several cos. have already settled
down elsewhere, and others are looking for
fresh camping-grounds. One by one the
worthlessness of many of the leases sur-
rounding the White Hope, Celebration and
Mutooroo has been confirmed. In the begin-
ning of the boom it was claimed that lodes
of good value existed on almost every block,
but when the expert got to work few of
them could produce anything payable, and
some not even a color. In several instances
the experts failed to find even the lodes on
which floats were engineered. One property,
described as possessing a large ironstone out-
ci’op and “the makings of a fine mine,” was
found to form portion of the brink of Lake
Lefroy, with .a mould of ironstone in the,
centre and a few shallow trenches half-
filled with water on each side.
The obituary notice of Ida 11. (W.A.)
some months ago was premature. The
co. has just issued a belated report stating
that it proposes to reconstruct and raise a
working capital of £28,000. With this cash
it intends to have another go at its Laver-
ton property and to continue its hitherto
unprofitable search for tin in Northern
Nigeria.
* * * »
The close of the Chillagoe deal has been
the handing over to debenture holders,
mostly the English crowd that followed
Alexander Stewart into the mine, of the parcel
of beai-er-bonds with which the Queensland
Government pays for the plant and mines.
Debts outstandiiig are about £567,600, and.
since £475,000 of 44 p.c. paper is exchanged
for that, bond-holders of the old Chillagoe
co. get about £S3 for each £lOO due to them.
There will be a further 2 p.c. in cash to
come along later on, so that, after all, the
debenture-holders have been fairly fortunate.
Still, as 44 p.c. Government stocks are worth
a good deal under par on the market, the
paper is not all it looks.
* * * *
Mt. Cuthbert (Q.) production keeps far
below the expected monthly output of 400
tons blister. This is shown by the last
three yields:—
Ore (tons). Blister (tons).
March . . .. 4126 294
April .. ~ 5194 340
May . . . . 4914 300
Plainly manager Harris cannot build up to
a 10 p.c. furnace chai'ge even with the Kal-
kadoon stuff to sweeten the mass. Profits
on 6 p.c. ore will never mount up decently
in Queensland unless large tonnages can be
handled, and Cuthbert has neither the re-
sources nor the plant to do big things to-
day, even if labor did get a move on. Cuth-
bert’s luck is that it has stocks of blister
to go to the refinery, though it missed a
good market because it could not sell copper
on hand while the embargo on exportations
operated, nor could it get its blister to
Kembla for treatment.
* * * *
There is not much to complain of in Venn
Brown’s latest on King Island Scheelite. He
talks of a new formation having been got
in the No. 1 open cut, but is not turning
handsprings untiA he learns more about it.
Outgo on overburden hits up costs, no less
than 3s. 6d. of the total of 14s. l£d. per
ton being charged to that work. The grade
of the ore is .67 p.c. tungstic acid, and as a
recovery of 794 p.c. was got from 15,283
tons milled the co. had 121 tons of concen-
trates to dispatch. Working profits on this
small output ran to £10,537, so that the co.
made about 15s. per ton handled. After
£4637 had been set aside for depreciation
and other charges, a shilling div. was passed
out. The co. awaits a turn in the metal
market with a liquid surplus of about
£15,000.
Labor shortage, restricted market facilities
and other troubles have combined to make
Mt. Magnet silver-mine (Tas.) look sick.
An output of 44,4470 z. silver and 263 tons
lead were obtained from 3741 tons ’ ore
at a cost of 86s. 4.1 d. per ton. Manager
Hales states the No. 13 (bottom) level is
opening up well, and though the ore channel
is not so wide as at the No. 12 it contains
equal values. As before stated, this property
is going backwards rapidly for want of a
vigorous policy of development.
A new co., the North Esk, with a capital
of 30,000 shares of 2s. 6d. each, is being
formed to work gold reefs at Blessington
(Tas.). Some sensational returns have been
reported, but a bulk sample of six tons
treated by Mt. Lyell returned only 17dwt.
per ton. Very little prospecting has been
done in the North Esk district, as the land
is all freehold.
Asam Kumbang (F.M.S.) had a cold time
during its May run. The dredge had to work
through two large open ponds containing
poor value, so the month’s run resulted in
only BD,6UU c. yd. being handled for an aver-
age of 4lb.
(Continued on page 22.)


THE NEW EXHIBIT.
CHORUS OF OLD HANDS: “We never had such chances in OUR days!”


Scarce Quality in Fast Black Socks.
jUL-j
Good British Fast Black Cashmere Hose are
now exceptionally scarce. Peapes’ have been
fortunate in procuring heavy stocks, part of
which has already been landed. These ex-
cellent Socks are ALL-WOOL, and the quality
is such as to carry the confident recommen-
dation of a house famous for good hosiery.
AH sizes, 7/6 pair, 43/6
half-dozen.
Another fast-selling line is a Black with fancy
silk clocks of various colors —Blue, Red,
Mauve, etc 9/6
Peapes’ Winter Special: Heavyweights in
Fancy Knitted Socks .... §/ 6 and 10/6
Big stocks coming. Whenever vou want
GOOD SOCKS SEND TO PEAPES’ of Sydney.
Postage paid.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
30S-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
Meltonian
I▼ | HIGH-CLASS
iSPEfIALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
fgjf
E. DROWN © SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL • OVER • THE • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
Sydneysiders have the benefit of other
peoples’ experiences in handling their share
of the Prince, and if they take a hint they
will above all studiously refrain from throw-
ing things. There is nothing H.R.11. detests
so much. He ducks nervously every time
anything is tossed in his direction; even a
handful of confetti upsets him. This is
due, no doubt, to royalty’s realisation of the
fact that even in the most friendly crowds
enemies and homicidal cranks may be wait-
ing for a chance to get one in on a king
or an heir-apparent. Admiral Halsey under-
stands the grim possibilities lurking even in
the most harmless-seeming things thus
BEFORE THEY ENTERED PARADISE.
“You’re always kicking up a fuss about
money, and yet before you married me
you used to tell me you were well off.”
“And so I was. In fact, I didn’t know how
well off I teas.”
thrown, and dexterously intervenes. He has
acquired the facility of a Yankee baseball
back-stop ; nevertheless he stopped an apple
with one eye in Dunedin, and the stick of a
flag with the other in Port Melbourne.
Mothers are curiously fond of throwing
photographs of their babies; and as a cabinet
photograph deftly twirled might put a royal
eye out of action, proud matrons are re-
quested to throw' their babies for choice, if
they must be brought under royal notice.
* * * *
“Lex” : In the North Sydney Police Court
a member of rhe great Smith family has
just sued the young woman to wiiom he had
been engaged for the value of the presents.
In a fit of pique she had thrown him over and
them into the harbor. The magistrate not
only turned the young man down, but told
him he could pay two guineas professional
costs or do a fortnight in gaol. Mr. Justice
Shearman, of the (London) King’s Bench
Division, took a different view in the case
of Moss Jacobs v. Fanny Davis. Here a
diamond ring and other articles of jewellery
w r ere in issue, and Moss duly got them back
on the ground that they had been given
in anticipation of marriage. The reason-
ableness of the decision can be seen by con-
sidering the possible effects of an opposite
rule. An attractive girl might make a lucra-
tive business of getting engaged ! A point,
by the wmy, which the sentimental maiden,
swooning over her first engagement-ring,
rarely appreciates is that it symbolises the
fact that she has been bought and paid for.
It is a sort of deposit to bind the contract.
Plainly Mr. Smith, of North Sydney, should
have got his conditional offerings back, or
their value, when the bargain was de-
clared off.
“Dolphin”: Here is a case for the Aus-
tralian Psychical Research Society, if one
exists, and whether one exists or not it
is a. matter w'hich shows liow' tricky a thing
circumstantial evidence is. A Sydney man
SO EXPOSED.
MOLLIE : “Poor Nell has a dreadful cold.
Caught it at the dance the other night.”
POLLIE : “ Not surprised. The silly girl didn’t
wear her necklace.”
recently visited an asylum for the insane
and recognised in a patient one Bill with
whom he used to play cricket, but whom
he had lost sight of. When he got home
he mentioned to his wife that he had seen
“poor old Bill” who had gone out of his
mind. “You must be going out of yours,”
his wife said. “Bill died three years ago;
I remember that my brother Jack had the
afternoon off to go to the funeral.” It turned
out that she was right about the funeral.
But it wasn’t a mere case of mistaken iden-
tity, for both the original discoverer and
his brother-in-law saw the patient and satis-
fied themselves from the things he knew
that no outsider would that it really was
Bill who was in the asylum. And the
brother-in-law and others are equally pre-
pared to swear that they attended Bill’s
funeral. Now the question is who (if any-
body) was buried at that funeral, and how
did the man who was alleged to have died
end up in the asylum instead of the grave?
* * * *
“0.K.”: A number of battlers for the
preservation of Melbourne’s oldest burial-
ground arranged a memorial service at Bat-
man’s grave the other Sunday. The excuse
was that the first party from Tasmania
came to Melbourne “just 85 years ago,” but
the main idea of the promoters had been to
drag the Prince into their little show, and
prompt him to express a hope that the
neglected old cemetery in West Melbourne’s
midst would be held sacred for ever on
account of Batman’s bones. That the ground
should remain in perpetuity a reserve for
rank grass and tumble-down tombstones is,
however, unthinkable. If a. real sentimental
value attaches to the remains of the reckless,
adventurous young man who did very little
for Melbourne beyond buying the site of it
from an aboriginal chief for a handful ot
beads, the obviously proper thing to do is
to remove them from their present resting-
place to the garden of Parliament House, or
some other official spot where they will not
interfere with the lay-out of a new market.
Melbourne’s old cemetery is wanted for the
extension of the adjacent market, and if the
late John Batman was nearly as far-seeing
and progressive as his professed admirers
state, his bones are now crying out for a
change of sepulchre. #
“Dido” : He was brought to the casualty
ward of a Melbourne hospital the other
night, and his tale was most touching. Go-
ing home from his tram, with the most
peaceable of intentions, he had
come upon a bijou villa, the
mistress of which was prepar-
ing for bed in the public eye,
having neglected to pull down a
blind. The poor man thought-
lie would wait and see this
thing through, and presently
another belated citizen chanced
along. Gleefully peeping Tom
drew t' e second man’s atten-
tion to :he exposed dormitory
and tii lady therein. Then
tilings happened to Tom which
necessitated his removal to the
hospital, where he explained the matter.
“S’elp me.” he said, “how was I to know it
was his missus?”
* * * *
In the matter of Mr. W. Sikes: —-
In September a heavy-footed burglar broke into
a Rose Bay (N.S.W.) house and moved about so
clumsily that he awoke the householder and his
wife. The lady, without seeing Mr. Sikes, tripped
to the telephone and rang up the ,
police-station; the husband, unarmed,
closed with the stranger, and was
stretched out .with a crack on the
head and a bullet through the body.
In her excitement his wife switched
on the electric light and switched it
off again, and thus it was that the
victim got a momentary glimpse of
Sikes before the latter dashed off
into the darkness. A month later the
householder went down to the police-
station, “picked out James McCall
and three other men” from the cus-
tomary mob of unshaven detenus lined
up for identification, and said “My
assailant was like one of these men.”
But this wasn’t identification within
the meaning of the Act, and the
ceremony had to be adjourned. Three
months after that the householder saw
James McCall in, the dock on another
charge, and then he made up his mind
that James McCall was the man who
had laid him out. There were no
other grimy citizens in the dock to
distract his attention, and James
McCall was clearly a tough, anyhow;
and so what he had failed to remem-
ber when the circumstances were re-
cent he now remembered four months
later. On this evidence, which is of
a piece with a good deal of the evidence
of identification served up in criminal
courts, James McCall was found guilty and sen-
tenced to death. Of course, he won’t he executed,
but no fuss will be made about the case. He
isn’t an 1.W.W., and that accounts for it. If he
were an I.W.W. he would get a re-trial, and if
that didn’t answer he would get another. A criminal
is a fool to himself if he doesn’t join the I.W.W.
“Fag” : Herbert Samuel’s appointment as
High Commissioner in Palestine looks like
business, for Samuel is some size in British
politics; but I doubt whether this back-to-
Judea movement will gee. We were camped
near Jaffa, where the oranges are sweet,
and one night a youngster whose nose pro-
claimed his race came over with a basket
of them and yarned. “Any of you chaps
come from Perth?” he asked wistfully. We
had enlisted in the 10th Light Horse, and
many of us came from Perth. “Because I
do,” he went on. “Me father kept a fruit-
and-wine shop in Wellington-street, near
the railway station. Some of _ you might
remember him.” Some of us did. “When
dad died,” the exile proceeded, “mother
brought the kids back to Palestine. Most
of us were born here. She likes it.” “And
don’t you?” we inquired. The youth aimed
an orange-skin at the nearest dromedary
and sighed heavily. “It’s up to mud,” he
said. “Me and the girls are breaking our
necks to get back'to Australia.”
* * * *
“Sixenate”: When Hughes decided that
the gratuity should be paid in cash to men
who had married since discharge the idea
was to encourage matrimony. A portion of
the harvest arrived on the doorstep of a
Sydney suburban household the other night.
She w'as very drunk, and even if she hadn’t
been drunk she wasn’t respectable : and she
expatiated in violent language on the solici-
tude that a husband should feel for his wife.
The returned-soldier lodger fled by the back
gate, and left an indignant landlady to deal
with the trouble as best she could. The
warrior had married in careless haste so
as to provide a marriage certificate with
his gratuity " application; and becoming im-
patient at the delay in payment of the cash
promised her, the lady (a chance acquaint-
ance) had looked him up. She finished a
painful evening by smashing the windows.
NOW, WHAT SHOULD A GEMTLEMAN
SAY NEXT?
“Please, I want you to give me your candid
opinion of my latest picture!”
“My clear Grade, it’s quite worthless.”
“Yes, I know that, hut Em dying to hear it,
all the same.”
*■ Married at 16, separated at 19, divorced
at 23 —the record of a Victorian couple at
whom Justice Hood peered over his gold-
mounted spectacles a few days before he was
made a K. 8., and that was last week. There
were three children of the marriage, and
there was also a co-re., who explained in
an aggrieved fashion that he. hadn’t known
lie was poaching on another lord’s preserves,
the hen-pheasant being high-booted and
white-stockinged, just like a flapper. The
10-year-old bridegroom is rare in Australia,
but 243 spinsters of that age tripped to
the altar in 1918. So, by the same token,
did three of 63, eight of 66. one of 72 and
another of 74; in fact, 149 of the single
ladies who changed their condition in 1918.
were 50 and upwards. Motto for the mate-
seeker of all ages:—
Hope on, hope ever;
Have courage, courage and all is well.
* * * *
“The Elder”: Many drowsy old memories
are awakened by the closing of Dr. Charles
Strong’s Australian Church in Flinders-
street, Melbourne. Thirty-five years ago
Strong was pushed out of the K\rk for
“heretical doctrines” ; whereupon faithful ad-
herents built him a tabernacle which was
entered by the steepest flight of steps that
ever led to salvation. For 30 years and
more they kept things going there under a
burden of mortgage, until at last the support-
ing syndicate decided to sell the premises.
For the next 12 months Dr. Strong and his
successor-elect will conduct services at the
Playhouse, and meantime the shifted flock
hopes that, with the aid of a further £5OOO.
it will be able to raise a Strong Memorial
Church from the ashes.
* * * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant” remembers
The swearing-in of James Martin as Chief Justice
of N. S. Wales in 1873 was vastly different
from any similar ceremony since. It took
place in the old Banco Court. The ancient
pews, with many initials cut in by briefless barris-
ters and barristers awaiting the calling of their
suits, were filled with the public—men who had
known “Jimmy” in the days when he was in the
lower branch of the profession, and did work as a
police-court attorney. When Darley succeeded Mar-
tin as C.J. he re-arranged the courts —had the old
Banco Court fittings removed and new innards pro-
vided, all fashioned after those in the Queen’s Bench
section of the courts in Dublin, where for nine years
he had carried a bag innocent of briefs. One good
thing Darley did, however. The sheriff (Cowper)
gave annual dinners to the Judges at his quarters in
the Courthouse, Darlinghurst, one of the unseen
servants being Nosey Bob, the official hangman. Dar-
ley said these dinners should cease, as the N. S.
Wales sheriff was simply a paid servant, whereas
the High Sheriffs in the Cold Country were county
magnates, who officially “dined and wined” the
Judges at Assize time, and were expected to do so.
Darley knew: his grandfather was High Sheriff of
Dublin at one time, and Lord Mayor of the city.
* * * *
When heads were counted last year Papua
had a European population of 1007, of
whom 709 were adult males. Among the
709 there were 123 Government oflicials, 94
planters, 85 missionaries, four hotelkeepers
and one—only one —member of the Devil’s
brigade, Bertie, a brother of the Sydney
municipal librarian. He must feel despe-
rately lonely among all those saints.
THE MIDWINTER MORALIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dear Friends, the spirit moves me now
To reassume my trusty pen,
To corrugate my noble brow
And edify my fellow-men;
To lesser lights I’ll duly leave
The smaller sins, but this address
Shall be as Gideon’s sword, and cleave
The monstrous vice of Selfishness.
Ah, Selfishness! Foul beast of bale,
Corrupting men ! To what dark courses
You drive their souls! They pay blackmail,
Forgive their friends, forego divorces;
In devious ways perversely sly,
Far, far from righteousness recoding—
And all just meanly to deny
The weary world some piquant reading!
O brothers, be not led amiss
By this great sin so sadly rife!
The rod of scandal meekly kiss,
Resign yourself, and if your wife,
Forgetting the respect she owes
Your person, you with pots belabors,
Don't churlishly bewail your woes—
Think how it entertains the neighbors.
And if when running for a train,
You tread on stray banana-peels,
And with a swirl your startled brain
Exchanges places with your bools,
Fierce maledictions do not hiss,
Nor rue it that the effort stuns,
For ’tis impromptus such as this
That please the darling little ones.
Should critics slate your budding art.
Reflect (and sure ’twill make amends)
On the deep joy their snubs impart
To all your interested friends;
And if some person slits your throat,
Or slugs you in his sportive capers,
Just murmur ere aloft you float:
“How nicely this will fill the papers!”
There’s no mishap of yours but cheers
Some fellow-Christian ; why deny him
That comfort in this vale of tears
Where other joys so often fly him?
No, brethren, when afflictions shroud
Your lives in gloom, refrain from whining,
For recollect your darksome cloud
Shows someone else its silver lining.
victoria.
SYD C.


5* gjfgh
SSOW HSIal -zs/zfj/i
m^um%
For COUGHS and COLDS
tou will not mar the conduct of the lecture or Service. A
few doses of Bonnington’s will relieve throat irritation,
and by continuing the treatment you will soon rid yourself
of all cause for coughing. Bonnington 8 is the safe remedy
and is sold everywhere—do not experiment with doubtfu
substitutes. 1/6 an<f 2/6. 8.A.18.
Jtroai 9rrttaiion
and Coughing
—-so prevalent among audiences during
Winter time, is very disconcerting to the
speaker, whether he he dis-
cussing from the platform
or pulpit. By taking
agtaaKsasg;
BOKNINOTON'S;
.i
IRISH "MOSS
Srtfjtjg&Mh ££>
C£OACI*aOMNMOTQM
KESaweisai;'
si£|r*
I LOTT
** PARIS
GARTERS
No meial
Can 1 ouch you
ASK DISTINCTLY FOR
PARIS GARTERS
Value and Service Guaranteed
Retailed Everywhere
Indents and Wholesale,
Walter Cathro Pty., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
Makers, A. Stein « 'uuinpany, Chicago.
THOSE WHO ENJOY LIFE
Revel in good health. A regular glass of
sparkling Sal Hepatica is a habit with the
healthiest people all Over the world. Sal
Hepatica is an effervescent saline with
medicinal properties similar to the famous
Ritter Waters of Europe. Try it when you’re
ymrnnrmr
off color! Price 2/-, 4/-, at your
chemist; or post free from
BRISTOL-MYERS CO.,
49 Clarence Street, BYDNEY.
[L234
rttBMTCA
( -jp!/kczsczirf -i*o jfaJia-
“Kel”: The B.M.A. strike in Tasmania
over the admission of well-to-do patients
to public hospitals beats the Broken Hill
foolishness by about a year. When the
row started a couple of years ago the medi-
cal staff came out from the Hobart IloSpi-
tal to a man. Dr. V. R. Ratten was then
appointed surgeon-superintendent, with a
house-surgeon and a couple of paid visiting
physicians to make up for the honoraries
who Went on strike. Then the Launceston
Hospital staff came out, too, and so far the
Government has been unable to get enough
doctors to man that institution. The B.M.A,
assaulted the Government’s salient when it
attacked the validity of Ratten’s diploma.
He had been practising in Tasmania for 11
years, had been regarded as one of the
Speck’s finest surgeons, and this was the
first suggestion that his ticket was not right.
Judge Ewing conducted an inquiry into the
charge last year, and held it not proven.
Ratten s ticket is from the Harvey Medical
College of Chicago (111.). The B.M.A. then
sent an agent to America to make investi-
gations, and he has given evidence to the
Medical Council that the Harvey Medical
College is contained in a single room 14 x 12.
The Council takes such a serious view of
this evidence that it has now asked the
Supreme Court to look into the matter
again and decide whether Ratten shall be
struck off the register. If he is rubbed out
the Government will not be able to get a
SHE'D PUT IT TO THE TEST.
MISS THYNNE : “Yes, dear, men are queer
creatures. They are all staring at you
in those short skirts, yet one can go
surfing with one's limhs entirely hare
and they take not the slightest notice.
I have proved it myself.”
surgeon-superintendent for the Hobart Hos-
pital, judging by its experience with regard
to Launceston, so that Premier Lee may
have to throw in the towel after all. Mean-
while Ratten, who declined to appear before
the Medical Council, goes ahead performing
about a dozen operations a day and doing
them most skilfully; and the more it exposes
Ratten for a “quack” the more doubt it
throws upon the necessity for the training
which it alleges Ratten hasn’t had.
“Leo Lear”: Some small Bananaland
towns which no one ever heard of will
become world-famous in the next two years.
On the afternoon of September 2-, 392*2, the
celestial management is staging a total
eclipse of the sun. The central line will
pass through Benlide, Mundubbera, Gayn-
dah, Wetheron and Tiaro, in the Burnett
and Wide Bay districts, and totality will
EAST, WEST, HOME'S BEST.
“A nice state to come home to your own
wife in!”
“Darlingsh, too sheedy to go anybody
elshe's."
last from six to seven minutes. The whole
continent will be partly in darkness: a line
from Broome in W.A. to Frazer Island (Q.)
totally so. Northern and Centralian skies
in September are usually clear, so this
eclipse may give science the best opportunity
it ever had of settling the problem of Vul-
can (a supposed planet inside Mercury’s
orbit), the weight of light and other abstruse
matters that don’t materially affect the price
of corned mutton.
# * # *
“Costs” submits an interrogatory:—
Who is responsible for legal “honors”? You find
among the knights Garran, sec. to the Federal
Attorney-General; Hood, senior puisne (Vic.), and
Wade, junior puisne (N. S. Wales). The High Court
so far has got nothing except the P.C.-ship to
Adrian Knox. Barton and Griffith had their titles
before they joined up. In England all Supreme
Court Judges are knighted: in the Court of Appeal
they are Lords Justices. Some distinction should be
invented to denote that the Australian National
Court is more important than State and District
Courts.
* * * *
“Whitehall”: The Prince is understood to
be in constant fear of bombs and missiles
generally; but it is only his reputation that
is in peril. Every fresh acquaintance is a
potential menace. What is knowrn as “aris-
tocratic exclusiveness” has its origin in the
painful truth that many people don’t mind
how much they slander a popular public
character so long as they manage to convey
an impression that they are or have been
intimate with their victim. The immortal
Captain Crumph in “Pendennis” is one of
the truest figures Thackeray ever drew. He
has just the right touch in the matter of
dragging his distinguished friends into the
conversation. The Crumph type may be of
either sex. Before the Prince has been
gone a week hundreds of young women will
be relating entirely apocryphal stories of his
lawless passion for them ; and their brothers
will have all sorts of yarns about his more
or less reprehensible doings in their com-
pany. Scandal is so much more interesting.
The present king, as A. G. Gardiner notes
in his “Pillars of Society,” had so many lies
told about his “drinking habits.” his “mor-
ganatic marriage” and the rest that he grew
morbidly sensitive, and at last took the un-
precedented step of making an example of
a typical slanderer in the law courts. The
yarns retailed about Ed. VII. almost to the
day of his death were as varied as they were
monstrous. And both George and Edward
led comparatively cloistered lives: the
people they met were confined broadly to
one set. A different social destiny faces the
Prince. His staff estimates that he will
have personally conversed with about 10,000
persons, male and female, before his Aus-
tralian tour ends. He is a dauntless char-
acter, or an unimaginative one, if he can
face the implications of that fact without a
qualm.
“R.S.V.P.”: This country’s attitude to-
wards domestic cats i.s ignorant. We
encourage them to
live in our houses,
“to keep the mice
down.” They don’t
catch mice worth
tuppence, or why the
mouse plagues and
the excellent sale
for mouse-traps ?
Cats, too, are
alleged to be a
preventive of
bubonic. They catch
rats, you see, and
rats carr y the
disease about with
them. Yet we
blotted out that
horror here by
employing catless,
rat-destroying and
-discouraging de-
vices. Cats, on the
other hand, convey
the germs of diph-
theria and other
diseases, which are
now endemic. Nine
mammas out of
ten, being ignorant
of this, allow
Willie and Annie
to nurse poo-er
Pus s y; and no
legislator has had
the nerve seriously
to propose a thump-
ing tax on the
death-bringing pest,
or to go further
and suggest a scalp-
bonus. What about
an educational cru-
sade in this matter,
even though such a campaign should
mean offering up cat-artist Souter on the
altar of hygiene?
“Kopai” : The Defence Brass-Hat, especi-
ally if adorned with only a little or
recently acquired brass, is a solemn
ass. Our port has the honor of be-
ing the base of part of the Australian
navy, wholly occupied now with polishing
ship’s fittings, holding naval courts on idle
drunks, and burning oil in cruises about the
bay. Melbourne papers had announced
that our unit was to
join the rest of the fleet
for the Prince’s recep-
tion, the sailors were
talking freely about it
and the date of their
departure, and the street
dogs were barking the
same information. A
pressman, in search of a
par., ’phoned the base for
confirmation. “Oh, no,”
twittered the Hat at the
end of the line, “I
couldn’t tell you. Quite
impossible disclose any-
thing about ships’ move-
ments !” Afraid, prob-
ably, the enemy might get
to know! A second-lieu t.
of senior cadets went one
better. He was submit-
ting to the local rag an
intimation that the
cadets’ football team
would meet for practice
next afternoon. The type-
script, which was a car-
bon copy, another of which was no doubt
filed in area records, was minuted: “Press
paragraph. Approved by Cuthbert H. J.
Fitz-Thompkinnes, Sec.-Lt.” We have
franu >' it for the reporters’ room.
I 'i i *
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: The S. M.
Herald Fairfaxes have extended their Pitt-
Hunter-O’Connell-street property by the pur-
chase from the Dixson trust of the premises
north of the old printing office. There is a
fine smell of beer and rum about the
Herald corner. In Governor Bligh’s
time the site of the front office was
occupied under lease by Mary Newton, who
traded in grog, etc.; other portions were
held by Neil McKellar, of the old Rum
Corps; Sergeant Thomas Whittle, of the
.same corps, the man who is alleged to have
discovered Bligh under a bed on the day of
the arrest (he had a grog license, too) ; and
James Bloodsworth, a First Fleeter and
master bricklayer. In 1853 a Crown grant
for the Dixson property was issued to Jacob
L. Montefiore, merchant, of O’Connell-street;
T. C. Breillat, miller, of Sussex-street; Tobias,
and J. P. Roxburgh (solicitor). The site
has seen many changes since then ; the Sav-
ings Bank, Oriental Bank and Bank of N. Z.
have all been housed there. The price paid by
the Fairfaxes for the block, with the sub-
stantial building now upon it, is said to be
£62,500. It will come in handy during the
rebuilding of the old Herald premises.
Partly for relief purposes “Mr. James” put
up the Warwick Buildings in Ilamilton-
street, but they are a bit out of the way.
* * * *
“Ham”: There is an ex-Guardsman in
Sydney who used to be a sentry at Bucking-
ham Palace, and remembers Teddy as a young
imp who periodically conspired with his
sister to disarray the sentry’s dignity and
uniform—the fruits of which were recurring
penalties for “untidiness,” for which no
excuses were accepted. One day the exasper-
ated Guardsman seized the heir-apparent,
and smacked him where a Prince is just as
sensitive as any other boy. Then he waited
for the death-sentence, or whatever was to
follow, but nothing came except a cessation
of pranks. Either the Princeling played the
game and kept quiet, or a higher authority
in the Royal household decided that he had
merely collected something that was due to
him.
* * * *
From an Australian in London:—
The Church of England is far and away the wealth-
iest religious body in Australia, yet it is the only
one that is constantly carrying around the hat in
this country. The latest cadging appeal conies from
Canon Wise, of Adelaide, and a couple of his church-
wardens. It is printed in the Churcii Times and
asks for “alms” to help the Canon defend himself
against the Bishop of Adelaide, who- is prosecuting
him fur certain alleged irregularities. Addresses to
which che cheques of English sympathisers may be
sent are duly appended. Can’t Canon Wise’s Adel-
aide friends and sympathisers on the spot raise a
paltry couple of hundred and avoid giving Australia
this eternal character of a mendicant?
* * * *
“Father”: “Ex-Dig.'s” biography of Joe
Swingitt (B. 27/5/’2O) recalls another
example of the shirker triumphant. Early
in the war John Jibbitt enlisted, and after
some months’ training in the depot was
transferred to reinforcements. On final
leave being granted John failed to turn up
for embarkation. Twelve months later he
reported back to camp, and on his promise
of better behavior, backed up by a letter
from a Federal member, he was taken on
to strength. When his next embarkation
was due he skipped again, and it was some
time before he was picked up. For this
offence he was tried by D.C.-M., found guilty
and sentenced to detention at Bendigo,
whence he was taken by escort to Sydney
with the next reinforcements from * Mel-
bourne. He escaped from Liverpool a few
hours after arrival, and a week later was
arrested in Sydney, returned under guard to
Melbourne, tried by D.C.-M. and again sen-
AND SHE'S STILL WONDERING.
“What a well-preserved man your friend Mr.
Binks is! No one would ever take him to
he as old as you are!"
"True; hut he was much older when he
married."
tenced to detention. With the next batch
of Victorian reinforcements leaving Sydney
he was safely placed on board the transport';
but as the vessel went by the Panama route
John carefully missed the ’bus at Welling-
ton. Returned by the M.L. Government to
Sydney, thence to Melbourne, he again faced
the music, and was once more sentenced to
detention at Bendigo, from which place he
was shanghaied on board a transport at Port
Melbourne. Finally he reached England in
time for the Armistice celebrations. And
now he is going to get a gratuity! Appa-
rently there are no lengths to which the
politician won’t go to buy votes.
DIGGERS ALL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I want to meet the Diggers.” —The Prince.
“I did my bit in Flanders as a Digger—nothing
more,”
Thus young Horace Bluffe, ex-major on the Staff.
“A simple, battling Digger—rough yet honest to
the core.
Call me Dig. I ask no finer epitaph.
Where the H.E. was exploding,
And the chlorine was corroding,
And the bombs were coming over, small and big,
There I stood and did my duty
For the Empire, home and beauty,
As an ordinary, mud-stained, fighting Dig.”
“Your case,” cried Colonel Blithers, of the Motor
Transport Corps,
“Bears a singular resemblance to my own.
Friends my recklessness of conduct used to bitterly
deplore.
They protested at it. Relatives would groan.
Was I moved by their repinings,
And their craven-hearted whinings?
Not at all! I felt as merry as a grig,
As I charged, through bullets screaming,
At the German rifles gleaming.
Ev’ry inch a fighting soldier and a Dig.”
“We also,” chorused Dodgit (C.O. troops ann
D. 9.0.),
Little Blinks (court-martial expert and M.C.)
And Neverdie (Munitions) —“we war’s horrors also
know,
As each honest-minded soldier must agree.
If the Prince is after fighters,
As against lead-swinging blighters,
It is shock-troop types like us he’ll want to twig—
Men whose bravery supernal
Made Australia’s name eternal,
Each a front-rank, fighting soldier and a Dig.”
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


THE
Union Trustee Company
of Australia Limited
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees,
etc.
New South Wales: Victoria : Queensland
The only Trustee Company having
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K C M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Hon. H. Y. Braddon,
jl L.C., F. B. S. Falkiner, James Kidd, W. H.
Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan Sinclair.
V. G. WATSON,
Assistant Manager.
JOHN MAIR,
Manager.
CALL OR SEND FOR? COMPANY’S BOOKLET.
h
DEAF?
You can HEAR
by sending for an
Acousticon
ON 10 DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
IN YOUR OWN HOME.
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
Over 330,000 delighted users, includ-
ing the Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes,
who has been using the Acousticon for
more than five years.
The Acousticon will safely and surely
check your increasing deafness and
enable you to hear.
Lamsoi\!e fc rvieeCo,
102 Dakingr House, SYDNEY
Olderfleet, Collins St., MELB.
N.Z.: John Procter, ZOO High St., Christc’h.
)V.A.: H. Little & Co., 801 Hay Street, Perth.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS —
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfHNQ ROOF GARDEN.
ManaoreniPPt F,. T. OHKKSEM AN.
cfiGEWOflfto
“extrahigh grade”
SMOKING TOBACCO
Sliced Plug or Ready-Rubbed
is the Original Tobacco of
this style.
Does not bite the tongue.
In tins from all Tobacconists.
2]
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
The Prince’s staff hasn’t the affability of
the suite that followed his royal dad through
Australia in 1901. In fact, at times it seems
to have been picked for an expected experi-
ence with savages. Of the crowd around
him the least likeable is Lord Claud Hamil-
ton. Lord Louis Mountbatten, with all his
solid pride, has many good points. Officially
a member of the gunroom, he is rarely
among the “snotties,” but ambles in the
rear of his relative, whom he alone addresses
as David. Mountbatten —one of the old
Battenburgs—is more phlegmatic than
Edward, and neither the juiciest cocktail nor
the Cleopatra of all flappers can lure him
from his post of royal watch-dog. Admiral
Halsey is more formidably incorruptible,
and he attends his charge with a maternal
care that would be a gift to a creche.
Wherever Edward goes Halsey is at his
elbow, chained to the royal shadow, and
playing buffer and boss with equal aplomb.
Naturally the old sailor’s devotion has
started a number of satirical legends. Among
other things it is claimed that if he doesn’t
actually sleep on young Windsor’s doormat,
he gives him his bath every Saturday night.
The groans that greeted Hughes, who fol-
lowed on the heels of H.R.H. on the day of the
landing in Melbourne, filled the Prince with
nervous apprehension.
He was over an hour
late, he knew, and he
imagined for a time
that the people were
telling him about it.
Hughes took his gruel
smiling. He had an
idea that the recent
raid on the Treasury
was responsible, and
when the ordeal was
over he barked that he
had “earned it twice
over to-day.”
B. K. LONG, Over-
seas Editor of London
Times, who followed
in that job Lieut.-Col.
Grigg, political secre-
tary to the P. of W.
on his present tour.
Mr. Long, who was in
Australia when the
Renown arrived, has
since joined the com-
pany of press sera-
phim that surround
the Prince's throne.
Dr. Richard Stawell, Donald Mackinnon’s
successor as president of the Melbourne
Club, did the honors when the Prince had
dinner with the 150-odd members who had
won the toss for the too-few chairs. The
official prompters did not forget to tell the
Young Man that Stawell was a son of that
William Foster Stawell who, while Chief
Justice of Vic., was Acting-Gov. thrice and
Lieut.-Governor from 1886 till his death in
18S9.
The N. S. Wales newspapers’ old friend
Prof. “Jimmy” Wilson has been elected to
the Chair of Anatomy at Cambridge, in suc-
cession to Professor McAllister, who died
last year. Prof. “Jimmy” was appointed
censor in Sydney when the war started, and
he hung on to the job for two worrying
years. The late “Andy” Stuart brought
him from Edinburgh in 1887, and his selec-
tion for Cambridge is a triumph for the
medical school which the late Scot founded
and made everywhere respected.
“You can take it from me he’s a good-
looking young fellow, and don’t introduce
your donah to him or—good-night!”— An
Australian Cabinet Minister's artless impres-
sion of the Prince.
“P.C. XX.”: Now that Steward is dead,
one can look back and consider the differ-
ence between him and his predecessor, Sains-
bury. Steward was gentlemanly and con-
siderate : Sainsbury, rough, caustic, domi-
neering. Sainsbury treated all his subordinates
with swift, bearish impartiality, whereas
Steward couldn’t in-
terview a sergeant
without asking him to
sit down and have a
cigar. Sainsbury had
no sense of dignity.
Just after his appoint-
ment he inspected ns.
As usual a room had
been reserved at the
best pub, but he vetoed
the idea with a flow
of language. On the
railway-station he had
met an old pal—the
local fish-and-rabbit
man, as a matter of
fact —and decided to
doss with his old
acquaintance. There
was a certain amount
of vanity in this exag-
gerated humility. To
the end he wore a belt
like a navvy, and was
tremendously proud of
his taste.
Professor DARNLEY
NAYLOR, Adelaide
University.
Ernest “Chinese” Morrison was a relative
by marriage of Higgins, J. When the Judge
was a member of the Federal Parliament he
brought Morrison to dinner one evening, and
it was only after two courses had been served
that he discovered they had butted into
a private party of which Alfred Deakin was
host. Horrified, Higgins sidled up to Deakin
to explain, but Alfred —all kindness and
splendid courtesy—silenced him by introduc-
ing him to the principal guest, an English
barrister M.P., and adding: “So, you see, we
ran down Higgins, after all, and he has re-
warded us for our chase by bringing Dr.
Ernest Morrison as a second lion.” Higgins
tried subsequently to induce Deakin to let
him be joint host,'but he wouldn’t hear of it.
Morrison had developed the imperturbability
of the descendants of 60 centuries of high-
caste Chinese, and it was impossible to
gather from his mask-like countenance what
thoughts were passing when he chose to be
taciturn.
Having got his knighthood, no doubt Jus-
tice Hood (Vic.) will now retire. He is
74 and rather deaf. The son of one of
Melbourne’s first chemists, he was called to
the Vic. Bar in 186 S, and for a few years
mixed rowing with the law. He has put in
30 years on the bench —an honest, pains-
taking workman who has never sought
either limelight or advertisement.
“Wealsman” recalls a Chief Policeman’s
first beat: —■
The late George Steward (“Iron-chest” among Tas.
civil servants) owed something to the keen eye of old
Edward Braddon, always quick to detect efficiency
or the other thing in those about him. And Brad-
don was not the only Minister who-found the ener-
getic and level-headed Steward a sturdy pillar on
which to lean. It was characteristic of “Iron-chest”
that he would tackle any better-paid job on offer,
whether it was tallying sleepers or an Under-Secre-
taryship. This even led him to seek and secure
the well-paid Town Clerkship of Hobart, in succes-
sion to the popular and easy-going “Bollie” Birch,
deceased; but his lordly confidence and efficient
methods seemed so likely to glorify the office and
diminish the importance of the aldermen that the
whole weight of the gigantic Bumble intellect was
thrown into the breeching, and Steward felt his
load growing heavier and heavier and the hill
steeper and his path more slippery. Also he
realised that the snuffy, stuffy atmosphere of the
municipal chambers was uncongenial, and that if
he didn't pretty soon find a place bigger than the
Town Hall wherein to expand his chest he would
probably suffocate with suppressed enthusiasm or
singe the fur off the mayoral rabbit-robes. So he
decided to turn in the Town Clerkship and seek a
place over-Straits before all the decent Federal jobs
were filled up. How he leaped from one high
place to another, like a ricocheting rocket, eventu-
ally landing in the Vic. Police Commissionership, is
likely to provoke the breathless admiration of
Federal public servants unto many generations.
Except for a Cabinet portfolio, the
Agency-General or a Supreme Court judge-
ship, a Vie. member of Parliament is not
eligible for a Government billet till he has
been out of the House for six months.
There have been hot rumors that Chief Sec.
Matt Baird* was willing to succeed Steward
as Chief of Police; but he is not eligible,
and there is no certainty that he could get
the job in six months, for Ministries change
suddenly in Vic. Dr. Pearson, ex-Minister
of Education, was appointed, by Shiels, Sec-
retary to the Agent-General, in 1892, about
six months after he retired from the
Assembly; and that was the last notable
appointment of a Vic. politician to n public
job.
Twenty years ago John Roberts, of
Dunedin, was authorised to call himself a
C.M.G.; and they tacked a K on the
other, day. He is 75 —a lean, clean-shaven
old money-spinner who migrated as a lad
to Melbourne, and crossing to Maoriland
founded with William Murray the business
of Murray, Roberts and Co. Specialis-
ing in wool, meat, freights, insurance and
embarrassed pastoralists, the concern quickly
grew to big dimensions. John hails fra’
Galashiels, in Bonnie Scotland, and perhaps
because o’ that has never forgotten the de-
ference between two shilluns and half-a-
crown. His finger has been in nearly every
pie wi’ a plum in it opened over yonder
for nearly half a century. In the long ago
lie married one of the Kettle girls, a sister
of Nat Kettle, who wedded the only child
of Ilcnare’s old friend Von Tempskey and
founded a big business —Williams and Kettle
of Hawkes Bay.
11. E. Kater, appointed chairman of
Prince Alfred Hospital in succession to the
late Prof. Anderson Stuart, is a Sydney
native, son of an early merchant, Henry
Herman Kater, and grandson of a captain
in the 62nd Regiment. The father came to
Sydney on the ship Euphrates, which he had
loaded with cattle and horses. Amongst the
latter were Cap-a-pie, Tross, Cantab, Para-
guay, The Giggler and Georgiana, from which
some of our best racers have descended. He
married in 1840 a daughter of Major Edward
Darvall, of Enfield. Their eldest son, the
new hospital president, married a daughter
of William Forster, one-time Premier of
N. S. Wales. He started life as a bank
clerk, and had an experience with bush-
rangers in the ’sixties. He was coming from
Mudgee per coach, with a bag containing
£6OOO or so in worn bank notes, which were
to be cancelled. Near Cunningham’s Creek
the coach was bailed up by Lowry, who
annexed the notes, some of which he put
into circulation. Lowry was shot soon
after.
Alec Peacock was not at the Prince dinner
at Federal Parliament House. Room had to
be found for billposters and publicity-boos-
ters, and there was no place for the Radical
knight who, besides being possibly the largest
factor in State politics, is one of the very few
framers of the Federal Constitution left
either in Parliament or out of it.
For the first time in 17 years Tasmania’s
annual Labor Conference was without vet-
eran Gen. Sec. James Guy. The benign
Senator (till the end of June) has been
through a series of rather serious surgical
operations during the past year,, and had
not recovered sufficiently to attend and
throw oil on the troubled waters.
Frank Madden, Vic.’s only surviving ex-
Speaker of the Leg. Assembly, looked very
feeble as he came up to say Hullo to the
Prince. Mackey whispered that the visitor
was ruler of the House for 13 years and
brother to the late Lieutenant-Gov., and
Edward gave him his left twice, once for
himself and once for dead John’s sake.
Passed out in London F. G. Frayling, the
officer who took the Tichborne claimant to
gaol after sentence of 14 years had been
passed on that massive fraud. Frayling used
to say that Orton’s only observation on the
journey to quod was ‘‘lt’s very ’ot.” The
Eai'l of Ilalsbury, who as Sir Hardinge
Griffard was leading counsel for the Wagga
man, is now the sole survivor of the people
connected with the case. He is 96.
Australia has lost a good citizen in James
Olifent, who died in the Cairns (Q.) hos-
pital while on his w r ay from New Guinea,
lie was born at Adelaide 50 years ago, and
worked high up in the S.A. Civil Service. Iu
his spare time be was an amateur soldier.
A born organiser and a good speaker,
he held pretty well every office in
the Labor party in S.A. outside Par-
liament. When war came, the Defence De-
partment made good use of him, and he ended
up as a District Commissioner in what was
formerly German New Guinea.
Justice Norman K. Ewing, whom the S.
Wales Labor Government has secured as
a Commissioner in the I.W.W. cases, in-
herited a love of preaching; his father,
Thomas Campbell Ewing, was a parson at
Pitt Town and Wollongong (N.S.W.). i C or '
man’s elder brother Tom attained Cabinet
rank in the second
Deakin Ministry;
a younger, Chris,
is a lawyer at Bim-
bury (W.A.). Nor-
man Ewing has
seen more of Aus-
tralia than most
members of his
profession; in the
course of 20 years
he has practised
law in three States
(N.S.W., W.A. and
Tas.), been a West-
ralian Assembly
man, a Westralian
Senator, Opposition
leader and Minis-
ter in the Speck,
Tasmanian Judge
and Federal Com-
missioner in the
N.T. And as likely
as not his career
will be crowned
with a seat on the
High Court Bench,
the gift of a grate-
ful Labor party
which formerly
hated him like poi-
son.
JIM PAGE,
M.H.R.
Willie Watt’s tongue is clearly making an
impression on .T. Bull. He lias a graceful style
and a copious vocabulary, and he acquired
neither of them at college; he is a State
school product exclusively. As a boy he
sold ’Eralds, one of his chums being Jack
Willis, in later years a prominent middle-
weight pug. Afterwards Watt joined the
A.N.A., and he was still barely 2(3 when
he beat G. M. Prendergast for North Mel-
bourne.
F. W. Meyer, one of the latest of German
deportees, had an argument with the High
Court before he boarded the Main. Secre-
tary, when interned, to the Sydney Chauf-
feurs and Taxi-drivers’ Union, he told Jus-
tice Starke that he was “at present en-
gaged by the A.W.U. in the organisation of
the taxi-drivers,” boasted of his “high stand-
ing with the Labor movement,” recalled that
he stood for Parliament in 1913, and claimed
to be the author of a plan for the North
Shore bridge. But two stipendiary magis-
trates had inquired into his case, and they
described him as too dangerous a pro-Ger-
man Hun to be loose in Australia.. That
decided it. Meyer spent 15 years here, and
married an Australian wife. She has elected
to remain.
It will be a minor calamity if charges
of corruption made against J. G. R. Bryant,
lately Director of N.S.W. Soldier Settle-
ments and now immigration agent in Eng-
l.and, are sustained. For Bryant is one of
the most effective organisers the Ma State’s
public service has produced. He began as
a fruit expert in the Agricultural Depart-
ment, and so took the eye of Departmental
bosses and Ministers that he was rushed
on till within a few years he became head ot
soldiers’ settlements. In that job, so Minis-
ters were lately informed, he required certain
bonuses to be cut up with himself. He
will, no doubt, be called back from London;
meantime in common fairness to the man—
though, not being a returned soldier, he
should never have got his present job—-it
is just as well to remember that his rapid
rise over the heads of seniors in the service
made him many enemies.
Seventy last week, W. O. Archibald, one
of the first Labor members (for Port
Adelaide) in S.A. politics, and for 10 years
a popular member for that State in the
House of Reps.
The late F. J. Prichard, for 27 years
editor of Launceston (Tas.) Examiner, was
the youngest of a family of 10. And they
all met at Canterbury (Vic.) in 1902 and
drank to another jubilee, for it was the 50th
anniversary of their arrival in Australia.
The Prichards were Herefordshire folk —a
healthy breed.
Only now and again a camera-man. gets
the chance to make a picture of five genera-
tions of one family; and that happened
when Mrs. John Laurence Quinn, until
recently of Bombala (N.S.W.), walked in
to have her photo taken. She is 87, and
the group included her eldest daughter and
three other generations down to one of 21
great-great-grandchildren. The old lady’s
descendants are 16 children (all alive), 104
grandchildren, 134 great-grandchildren, and
the 21 others mentioned. Nine grandsons
and three great-grandsons enlisted in the
war—and three were killed.
(Continued on page 18.)
THE YOUNG, YOUNG MAN AND THE MAYORS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Man in the Moon wore a cheerful smile
As he winked through the window pane,
And he chatted to me for quite a 'while
In a manner to which we’re fain;
For the Man is really a decent bloke,
And he tells me many a merry joke
When the town is wrapped in its spangled cloak.
“ ’Tis the funniest thing I’ve seen,” he said ;
“On the lump of earth you’re in
There’s a young, young man, with a fair, fair head,
And a really delightful grin,
And he likes the girls and he likes the chaps,
And a smoke and a horse, and a kiss, perhaps—
But he's badly caught in rabbit-skin traps!
“He is hemmed all about by mayors in state,
And wherever he goes they sprout;
For his every step they watch and they wait,
And whenever he ventures out
A mayor springs up in his furs and chain,
And spins him the dreary old tale again,
And there’s no escape, for to flee is vain.
“All over the lump of earth they sit
Armed with greetings and praise and guff;
Most utterly lacking in sense and wit
But wondrous rich and infernally tough ;
I can see heads thrusting bald and white
In a solemn bow through the peaceful night—
Till the young man seems to loathe the sight.”
I looked at the moon and he looked at me,
Then I spoke to him sadly thus:
“I do not approve of your wicked glee,
For the young man’s staying with iis;
There are Digger chaps that he wants to meet;
But he can’t get a chance, for in every street,
As the mayors sprout up, they in haste retreat!”
VICTORIA.
CUTHBERT CUTPURSE.


«n
k,
m f K \ v-'>"'
1 • ' O.v*
SSI
ssgpw
Hiss®
. *—
A lg| ®»
:TO:
atmm
, ’ >
•• - •='v\
* I
mfj
m
K
\ I
L
c
i
I * A :
rsw
'
• * .*»!
: . ? t*" •*
-
w
*. r
\ )
«# '
3**^
r r ->
*Z2I
/
STBEWOI"
&
Plea>SdJ\t Thouahts
H.O
HJu
) ltd svon
W. D &H.G. WILLS, (Australia) Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
The World “RenowrTed Brand


DEAR WHEAT?
t
Save every g'rain by using'
the Sunshine Harvester.
Built to last a lifetime.
mc kay
//<*
.V. McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works
Stanley Street, South Brisbane;
27-39 George Street West, Sydney;
Corner Collins & Spencer Streets, Melbourne;
56 North Terrace, Adelaide;
36 Pier Street, Perth;
Corner York &. St. John Streets, Launceston.
Manufacturer of
Harvesters,
Headers,
Grain Drills,
Fertiliser Drills,
Patent Combined Drill and
Cultivator,
Lucerne Seeders,
Chaff cutters,
Chaff Elevators,
Saw Benches,
Spring Tyne Cultivators,
Grain Boxes,
Rigid Tyne Cultivators,
One-way Disc Cultivators,
Stump-jump Disc Cultivators
Mouldboard Ploughs, 1 to
5 furrows,
Orchard Ploughs,
Disc Ploughs,
Plough Shares,
Harrows,
Swingletrees,
Metal Gates,
Maize Shelters,
Engines, 1£ to 10 h.
Working Heads,
Pumps.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue 81, free and post free. Mention item you are interested in,
The late Chief Justice Stone, of Westralia,
once heard a case against a veterinary sur-
geon who was accused of killing a man's
horse by giving it an overdose of something
or other. Justice Stone, who knew a bit
about medicine, asked if the dose would not
have killed the Devil himself. Tliet vet. drew
himself up pompously and said: “I have
never had the honor of attending that gentle-
man.” “That’s a pity, doctor,” replied the
Judge—“he’s doing so much mischief still.”
A very learned K.C., of Melbourne, who
was called to Sale one show time, had great
difficulty in finding accommodation, and at
length was glad to accept a bed in a room
with another occupant. When on the point
of getting into the blankets, he recognised,
to his great consternation, that the man in
the other bed was • a one-time Melbourne
cabman whom he had been in
getting five years’ hard. However, the K.C’.
said nothing ; but after he was well a-bed and
the lights were out, a voice startled hhn. “I
see, guv’nor, you didn’t reckernise me,” said
the man in the other bed. “Oh yes, I did, ”
replied the K.C. “Well, it's orl right, said
his room-mate. "I ain’t a-goin’ to object.
Fact is, I ain't got nothin' agin you. That
four years an’ three months I served done
me a world of good.” “Indeed, and how
was that?” “It cured me of the cigarette
’abit,” said the man in the other bed.
"The Oldest Inhabitant”: In his own
judgment the most interesting address pre-
sented to the Duke of Edinburgh in Victoria
was the one he received from the Old Colo-
n:st.s, on January 3, 1868, in the Public
Library at Melbourne. The signatures at-
tached were those of arrivals in or on the
coast of Port Phillip from 1831 to 1843. Of
men of 1831 there were two; '34, three; ’35,
seven, including J. P. Fawkner, who was
present and spoke: ’36. 19; ’37, 36 (includ-
ing John W. Fleming, Melbourne’s first-born
and still living) ; ’3B. 53.; ’39. 123 (includ-
ing Premier John O’Shanassy (who was
present and spoke) ; 1840. 125 (including
"The Oldest Inhabitant”); 1841. 152;
1842. 103. Colonel J. Anderson, C. 8., who
arrived in Sydney in Governor Botfrke’s
time, and was commandant at Norfolk
Island, was also a signatory.
Next to William Buckley, the white meii
who put in the iongest spell with Black
Brother and then returned to civilisation
were two convicts named Davis and Brace-
field. They ran from Moreton Bay in 3828
and lived for 14 years with the Wide Bay
natives, who rechristened Davis Duramboi and
Bracefield Wandi.
These tw o in e n
“went native”
completely, an d
I) a vis especially
w as highly
esteemed as a
hunter and fighter
by his black mates.
He was a black-
smith b y trade,
and when he came
back he started a
shop in Brisbane
and made money.
He wou 1 d never
talk about his life
in the hush: lie
would tell in-
quirers to take off
their clothes and
live with the blacks
as he did if they
wanted to find out
things.
Artist TOM
ROBERTS,
recently returned
to Australia.
Ex-pressman Jim Beckett, lessor of the
Sir Edward Pelletv Islands in the Gulf of
Carpentaria, who was recently given up for
lost through being blown off his course while
making over to Burketown, is south again
for a few weeks. Beckett, who intends to
grow eocoanuts, etc., on his islands, with
the help of three hefty sons, had long ser-
vice with the Age and a couple of years
with the Heraud. He put up a unique
record during his Age career: he was once
waylaid by 30 roundsmen on the Argus staff,
who pressed on him a gift, inscribed with
an acknowledgment of his brotherly attitude
towards them throughout the period of their
association. Whenever Beckett feels lonely
in his trackings through the wilderness he
pulls the present out of his pocket, takes a
look at the inscription and feels better imme-
diately.
“The Wanderer”: Here’s a tidy record.
W. Malone, of Upper Myall, near Wingham,
N.S.W. North Coast, will celebrate his 99th
birthday on June 21 next. He has reared
two sons and eight daughters; is the grand-
dad of 63 grandchildren, over 100 great-
grandchildren, and over 20 great-great-
grandchildren. I didn’t see him born; but
there are records that he has lived on the
Upper Myall over 70 years, and was “getting
on for middle-aged” when he arrived.
The “Father” of the N. S. Wales Assembly
will be found among the following mem-
bers :
First elected. Out of Parlt.
,T. L. Fegan . . . . 1891 1907-20
R. A. Price .. .. 1894 1904-07
R. T. Ball . . ~ 1895 1898-04
J. C. L. Fitzpatrick . . 1895 1904-07
But George Fuller was in the Assembly
before any of these (1889), though he had
H long absence after 1895, some of it spent
in the House of Reps.
The tale of another convict (God bless
them!) :-
During the 60-odd years that the system lasted
thousands of convicts made their escape from Aus-
tralia. At one time nearly every vessel that left,
the country had prisoners of the Crown smuggled on
board. A good many more did their own getting
away by seizing small craft, and some wonderful
voyages they made. Most of the Pacific islands had
their share of runaways, some of whom, as in old
Fiji, became the companions and Ministers of
native chiefs. Others turned up in North and
South America, China, India, the East Indies and
South Africa. One of the strangest histories is
that of a very early escapee, Thomas Muir, one of
the “Scottish martyrs” transported in 1791 for
advocating adult suffrage and other revolutionary
abominations. The Otter, a Yankee schooner from
Boston, called in at Sydney in 1795 and took Muir
with it on the return- voyage. But the Otter was
wrecked on the coast of what is now British
Columbia, and the only survivors were Muir and
two sailors. They fell among wild Red Indians, who
killed the sailors but spared Muir. In time the
Scot escaped, and, heading south, he walked a
thousand miles or so down the coast to the Spanish
settlements in California, whence he got to Mexico,
and from that country to Cuba. There he sailed for
Europe in a French vessel. But France and Eng-
land were at war, and in the voyage across the
Atlantic the French craft had an argument with
an English vessel, and Muir was badly wounded.
He was landed at Bordeaux and reached Paris, but
only to die.
“Vic”: Hugh D. Mclntosh began work at
nine years old, picking ore at Broken Hill.
Ilis second job was as errand-boy to a Syd-
ney doctor, who gave him some night-school
education. Then he went over N. S. M ales
as farm-laborer, engine-driver, baker s ott-
sider and rouseabout. Back in Sydney, he
was a theatrical super, and then turned
HUGH D. McINTOSH.
waiter. He soon had the business. His
next venture was a physical-culture school
—he sold his catering to Sargent’s. He
became secretary of the N.S.W. Wheelmen,
and that led him on to his plums as boxing-
promoter. He made an enormous coup by
cornering all kinds of Sydney amusements
for the U.S. Fleet. Burns r. Squires yielded
him over £13,000, and Johnson v. Burns
over £14,000.
Kingsley Fairbridge, who has collected
£28,000 in England, besides subscriptions
totalling £6OOO a year, for the Fairbridge
Farm School at Pinjarra (W.A.), is a
South African Rhodes scholar. The School
was founded by a group of Rhodesians for
the training of boys from the British slums,
but their hearts were larger than their
means, and Fairbridge has had an uphill
fight for years. But his persuasive tongue
was employed to some purpose in the
moneyed circles in which Newton Moore and
Agent-General Connolly move, and financial
troubles will worry him no more. He is a
tall, good-looking young man, a capital
speaker and writer, and an adept with the
gloves. He stood for Murray at the last
State elections and gave Works Minister
George the fight of his Jife.
THE PATRIOTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Five fine old fellows on a seat
Bent forward on their twisted sticks,
Absorbing Melbourne’s Autumn heat,
And talking much of politics—
Five wise old men who seemed to know
Just why “this Billy Hughes” must go.
They tottered to the place, each day,
Grave pensioners at seventy-six,
And seated there above the bay
They talked the State out of her fix,
Or named the evils prevalent
In politics and Parliament.
They knew without a doubt just what
The Opposition ought to do,
And ticked off members to be shot.
Each day with fiery zeal they slew
Bill Hughes. In treating William thus
The party was unanimous.
They rapped their sticks upon the ground,
They branded Bill a traitor black.
“When next election-time comes round
You’ll see this fellow won’t come back,”
Cried Tonks. “We’ll fix him, never fear.”
“Hear, hear!” the others said. “Hear, hear!”
But Gibbons took a cold and died,
A trying winter finished James,
And influenza killed poor Hide.
’Tis heart disease the doctor blames
For David’s end. Much put about
Poor Tonks remains the odd man out.
Ho sits there on the seat, and bends
Upon his stick and talks to me
About his late lamented friends.
“They were the sort of men,” says lie,
“Their country can’t afford to lose.
But, lor, what luck for Billy Hughes!”
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


Road 'round tke
World
IT criss-crosses every continent.
And every section of it differs.
Yet there is a type of ‘United
States' tyre that exactly fits every
possible road surface.
‘United States’ tyres have five dis-
tinct and different treads, which
appeal to Australasian motorists.
They are called: ‘Royal Cord,’
‘Nobby,’ ‘Chain,’ ‘Usco,’ and ‘Plain’.
They are made by the world’s
largest rubber manufacturer.
United States Rubber Company
(Australasia) Limited,
53 York Street, Sydney.
130-2 William Street, Melbourne.
Bloor Court, off Currie Street,
Adelaide.
! ll' !i;i iH
1 > , : : i '
mm
.........
■
i
1
*
j
i
■
mi
m
m
m
■ !
sK
States’Tires
Are Good Tires
Obtainable from all leading garages and
W. A. SORRELL, 157 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND : Howard Motor & Cycle Co. Ltd., Brisbane.
LAUNCESTON : Irvine & McEachern.
HOBART: Buchanan, Davidson & Co. Ltd.
AUSTRALIA: Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Ltd., Perth,
WEST


• '
W \\
X
A
&
v-r "
I
1
//
m
■CSj^ftSp
3S?
w
3
s®
i
-\-
V/7
m
*
;Aal^s
Xa
A"
m
‘XSSv
$
1
&
2E
Si
f*3w
k
Nf^
CLq
i»3a
THE SIGN OF
RELIABILITY,
The
Comfort of
iNLY by an actual trial can
you appreciate the comfort
of Combinations in preference to
separate vest and pants. They
ensure even warmth all over
body and will not gather into an
unshapely and uncomfortable
heap around waist. They are
more economical, too. <• Test
their desirability for yourself.
Prices of lines now showing are
based on last year’s cost, and are
therefore much below present
market value. * ***«.«*
Wool and Cotton, 5 sleeves
Inches chest 34 36 33 40
16/9 17/- 17/9 18/9
Wool and Cotton, long sleeves
18/- 18/- 19/- 20/-
\ll Wool, a sleeves
30/- 30/' 32/6 32/6
All Wool, long sleeves
31/- 32/- 33/6 33/6
Pop Carriage.
David (Jones'
for Service
SYDN EY
Opp. G. P 0.
Tel. City'633&
geT ROIT
PERFECTION MARINE ENGINES
in any size for Pearling Schooners,
Working Boats, Pleasure Launches,
Canoes, Dinghies, etc.
ISS
S-h.p. Unit Plant, with reverse gear on same bed. Perfect
alignment guaranteed. The ideal engine for small speed boats.
Speed record up to date is 211 miles per hour, driving a 20ft. by
4ft. Gin. beam boat. Hand V Bottom, turning a 16in. x 20iii.
propeller. *
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY FROM STOCK
of Caille Outboard and “Bantam” (Inboard) motors; also 1-. 2- and
4-cylinder types from 2 to 30 h.p., for light or heavy duty.
Write or wire for Catalogue and full particulars of type of engine
you require to
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA & PACIFIC ISLANDS,
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED,
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney; 71-5 Queen’s Bridge Street,
South Melbourne; 138 Currie Street, Adelaide; and
Wellington, N.Z.
Cable Address—“Brosbenson.”
VOIJLS ONIAVHS
111 l doj. Jdpp^
iSuieiiiiM
MEN who appreciate
the comfort of a
good clean shave
will welcome Williams’
“Holder” Top Shaving
Stick for the economy,
shaving comfort and con-
venience it affords. The
Shaving Stick and metal
cap are in one piece; the fin-
gers never touch the soap.
It gives you a rich, moist,
abundant, soothing lather,
and makes shaving a plea-
sure no matter how stub'
born the beard may be.
If yourChemistcannotsup-
p'y you send 21- in stamps
direct to “ Williams,” Box
98, G.P.0., Sydney, and we
will forward you by re-
turn a full size William’s
“Holder” Top Shaving
Stick—Post Free.
We also recommend
“Williams” Luxury
Shaving Cream,
Quick and Easy Shaving
Powder.
Shav-
ing
Cakes
for the
Mug
Sold
Every-
where.
W 2
utdmuuL
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Fever.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ALONG the pallid drift of night,
With haggard lightnings lit.
And dotting all that sombre height
Where Pain and Madness sit,
Go countless hosts of drifting sheep,
And each a stab for me ;
And stark and starved my children weep,
All in a shrivelled tree.
The sentence that I may not write
Besets me like a curse:
‘‘The Lady Yere in vestment white”—
I sweep the universe
Astride a dipping pendulum
Above a mad, black sea,
And from a crag, pot-bellied, glum,
Bed devils snatch at me.
“The Lady \ ere in vestment white” —
The keys click in my brain.
The little sheep that passed by night
Come trooping back again.
“The Lady Vere in vest” I cling
Tight to the steely rod,
And, ’cross the blood-red dawning, swing
In depths unplumbed by God.
Strange spectres wing along my flight—
One is a blue baboon.
“The Lady Yere in vestment white
Hath wed the wobbling moon.”
Oh, will the sheep for ever trip
Where low the lost wind moans?
Their little feet like pincers clip,
And snap my aching bones.
“The Lady Vere in vestment white”—
Soft sways the pendulum,
And stays at length its falt’ring Might:
By one burnt world and dumb.
The draught has put my fiends to lVnit,
The spectre shapes diffuse.
Where gates of Chaos open out
Pain herds her haggard ewes!
Victoria.
EDWARD DYSON.
Nerves.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HAYING decided what the disease is
to be, there is nothing to do but
wait until the pains begin. Mean-
time, however, you may consider your dis-
tance from the doctor; the utter impossibility
of getting a call through in the night; the
certainty that you can obtain no relief when
the doctor does arrive; the absence of every
possible chance that the disease can end
otherwise than fatally. /
At this point it is well to give some atten-
tion to the problem of pain, to make it clear
to yourself how great suffering can really be
with the brain in full activity, to call up in
memory the worst pains you have ever suf-
fered, to dwell patiently on all the remarks
about pain your friends have ever made, to
go over with care all references to pain you
have met in literature.
By this time the disease will have taken
firm root and you may pause to shudder at
what is to come. But the time for hysteria
is not yet. Get down an encyclopaedia or
medical work and test the symptoms —you
will find you have them all to the last detail.
They make very unpleasant reading, but
there is some room for a display of art in
fitting them all together. Long before the
puzzle is complete you will find the pain
beginning at the right place; if it begins at
two or even three right places it is all the
more convincing.
Death should now be considered—not
death from a histrionic or emotional point
of view, but the direct business of dying as
it affects the heart, the lungs, the brain and
the seat or seats of the increasing pain. Do
not make the mistake of treating these things
in an impersonal way. They must be applied
to you, to the immediate future, to the cir-
cumstances which surround you. You will
not have time for a shave, nor to write your
epitaph, nor to re-arrange your will nor to
make the appointment with the Bovine Club
for next Monday.
Now try your weight, test your strength,
see how much endurance you possess to
lengthen the coming torture. Give a proper
amount of attention to suicide as a means of
eluding this. Review self-inflicted death by
drowning, by shooting, by poison, by hang-
ing, by leaping from a high place. The
probability of an error of judgment in each
and all of the methods must have due weight.
To drown and be rescued ; to shoot and to
lodge the bullet in the wrong place; to take
poison and only cause violet sickness; to
hang and merely fight for breath; to leap
from a high place and be half-alive when
the bottom is reached.
If you are religiously inclined it will now
be beneficial to the general scheme to devote
some thought to sin, judgment and Hell:
even if you are not religious you may con-
sider the last as a possibility.
The pains by this time will be getting some
effective work in and it will probably be
about 12 o'clock at night. You can
fairly reason that the call for the doctor
will be at a time when it is still more diffi-
cult to send and probably impossible to
answer.
In the interval of waiting it may be well
to conjure up a good picture of the grave
with all properties of worms, decay and.
above all, premature burial. Work well
around premature burial. Now go to bed.
On top of the pains the choking sensation
and sense of swelling at the throat will by
this time be well established. Lie down
firmly and insist upon trying to bear all
with true and manly stoicism.
Proper hysteria will set in in about 17
minutes. And then, if ever in the history of
your misguided nerves you come to real
understanding, you will completely and in
an altogether satisfactory way know what
whisky is for.
M McC.


Goodyear
Belting
proves its
efficiency
. >
1
IllWU!
liiHirnt
mni
ns
IF there was any scepticism in the mind of
the engineer in charge of the Holdship
Timber Company’s plant when he con-
sented to put a Goodyear Belt on the drive to
his 42-inch saw-bench it has long since disap-
peared. The Holdship Timber Company give
what is really the highest of all testimonials
when they say: “We are thoroughly satisfied.”
The record of this Bx 6 ply Klingtite Belt is
remarkable enough. During a length of service
of 2 years and 6 months it was taken off only
once on account of stretch. This is an open
saw-bench drive, working under the following
conditions: lotal length, 32ft. transmits
13 horse-power; Driving Pulley, 36in.; Driven
Pulley, 1 2in.; travelling at a speed of 2690 ft.
per minute. The belt is still in good working
order, and shows little sign of wear.
A saw-bench is particularly severe in its
demands on a belt. The load is intermittent in
the worst sense. From free-running, to the
opposition of the maximum resistance, the
change is instantaneous. This is usually when
slip occurs with many belts, and is the reason
for the use of many sticky compounds in the
attempt to avoid slipping. With Goodyear
Belting no sticky compound is ever used. The
efficiency of the friction surface obviates any
necessity for using such a treatment.
So effective is the friction surface of a Goodyear
Belt that absence of slip is one of its most note-
worthy features.
There is a Goodyear Belt designed and built for
every kind of belting service. Moreover, there
is a Goodyear Technical Man within call, who
will demonstrate how to adapt your belts to
the actual conditions of work. His specialised
knowledge and continuous experience of results
will assist you to secure not only the maximum
service in belts and consequent economies of
factory operation, but will insure the effective
transmission of power with its accompaniment
of maximum output of machines or plant.
Our specification of Goodyear Belting carries
with it the acceptance of responsibility for its
satisfactory service and wear.
Stocks of Goodyear Mechanical Rubber Goods are now carried throughout Australia by
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED
ADELAIDE, MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, BRISBANE, PERTH.
m
mm
■
»
m
A Tmm F


A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Neck-
let, set Pearls and Aqua-
marines, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s
15et. Gold Ring - , set
Aquamarine or
Tourmaline, £2.
A Saunders’ 9ct. Go! 1
Links, 10/6.
A. Saunders’ Pearl Set Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£2/15/-
A. SaundeTs’ Oct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls air
Red Stones, 25 /-
A. Saunders’ Aquamarine Bar Brooch, loct. Gold,
£2.
SauncierS’ 9ct. Gold
Football Medal, 30/-
15ct,, £2/15/-
A Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Circle Brooch, set
Pearls, 10/6.
SPECIAL DESIGNS.
A, Saunders’ Gent.’s Wristlet Watch, 25/-, 30/-
40/-. Solid Silver, £2/10/-, £3.
t
A. Saunders’ 9ct. solid Gold Albert, £3/10/-
Heavier, £4, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’
Diamond Cross-
over Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’
Diamond Boat-
shape Ring,' 18ct.
Gold, £5.
A. Saunders'
Lady’s 9ct. Golti
Signet Ring,
12/6; 15ct.
Gold, 25/-;
18ct., 30/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s high-grade Nickel
Lever, £2. Extra Jewelled, £2/10/-,
£3. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
Lady’s Single
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’
Diamond Halt-
hoop Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’
Lady’s Aquamarine
or Tourmaline
Ring, 9ct. Gold,
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 George Street (Opposite Railway Station), Sydney.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s
9ct. Gold Signet Ring,
20/-
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold
Links, 20/-; heavier,
25/-, 30/-; 15ct. Gold,
£2, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold Necket, set
Pearls and Amethyst or Rubies and
Pearls, £2.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, set Pearls
and Red Stones, 12/6.
A Saunders’ Aquamarine Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
85/-
A. Saunders’ Pearl Set Brooch, 9ct. Gold,
25/-
A. Saunders' 9ct. Gold
Circle Brooch, set
Pearls and Aqua-
marine, 35/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Square and Compass
Pendant, 12/0.
Isct., 20/-
Perkins and Co., Ltd., brewers (Bris-
bane) :
Dividends and Added to Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves. serves.
1910.. £27,215 20 p.c. = £21,000 £6,215 £96,053
1911.. 24,701 20 „ „ 21,000 3,701 99,754
1912.. 24,630 20 „ „ 21,000 3,630 103,384
Premiums on new shares . . 11,111 114,495
1913.. 22,516 lljp.c.= 14,138 8,378 122,873
1914.. 25,114 124 „ „ 17,457 7,657 130,530
1915.. 23,967 124 „ „ 17,495 6,472 137,002
£133,333 transferred to capital .. 3,669
1916.. 25,426 6 p.c. = 16,887 ) „ nnft .
Written off, £6,539 f 2,000 5,669
1917.. 22,630 6 p.c. = 16,797 ) , R( , Q
Written off, £5,833 !
1918.. 25,118 7 p.c. = 19,599 ) nAA r rra
Written off, £4519 ( I’Qo° 1 ’ Q0 ° 6 ’ 669
1919.. 25,066 7 p.c. = 19,599 ) , AAA „ Rra
Written off. £4467 f lloo ° '> 6G9
1920.. 26,235 74 p.c. = .19,698 ) , nnft „ fiRQ
Written off. £5537 i 1,000 8,66 f
Except for the round £5OOO tacked on to a
dividend equalisation reserve, during the past
live years every penny of profit in excess of
the amounts required for dividends has been
dropped into a rest account. The precise
nature of this account is not disclosed,
though probably it is a reserve for contin-
gencies. Neither do the directors give any
indication of the extent of the accumula-
tions, for though apparently about £16,500
has been set aside since 1915, whatever now
reposes there is hidden, the account being
lumped with liabilities. Because of this
procedure, in the table each year’s appropria-
tion for this account is shown as written
off, with the £lOOO added to a casks account
and to a barley and malt insurance account.
Further, the profits in the table are shown
after allowances have been made for general
depreciation, and these charges have ex-
panded rapidly during recent years. This
comparison shows how gross profits have
grown, and also indicates how heavier ex-
penses have resulted in only small improve-
ments being effected in net profits:—
Profit on
Brewing, etc. Expenses. Depreciation.
1910.. £38,862 £9,822 £1,694
1914.. 49,079 17,698 5,909
- 1917.. 48,348 17,617 8,101
1918.. 52,321 19,773 7,430
1919.. 58,434 24,994 8,374
1920.. 64,480 27,822 10,422
But though actual net profits may be better
than the management admits, beer is not the
money-brewing business it used to be: dis-
closed profits are slightly under what they
were 10 years ago, notwithstanding that
during the period £44,444 of new share-
holders’ funds has been got in and almost
£35,000 of visible reserves accumulated,
’though Queensland breweries have suffered
less from trading restrictions than those of
any other State, increased outgoings are a
worry. . The directors remark tha t costs and
irregular supplies are at present matters of
“grave concern.” But these are minor
troubles compared with the possible outcome
of impending events. In October next
Queensland electors are to be given an oppor-
tunity to decide the future of the liquor
trade. Probably this co. is not much con-
cerned about the likelihood of the Northern
State voting itself dry ; but as an alternative
to prohibition an expression of opinion on
State control is also invited, and the pub-
lic’s attitude on that proposition is not clear.
That the co. has not been scared by either
the Prohibitionists or the Nationalists is
evident from the directors’ continued activi-
ties in extending the business. During the
past year the book value of property and
plant has increased £23,000; and actual
additions were no doubt greater, for that
increase makes no allowance for the slice
• of the £10,422 depreciation appropriation
which was used to write down the value of
fixed assets. The wide expansion of the co.’s
operations over 20 years is illustrated by
this comparison of the balance-sheet
figures:—•
1900. 1910. 1915. 1920.
Liabilities . . £12,492 £25,622 £69,772 £146,961
Freeholds, plant, etc. 64,679 108,957 172,186 214,645
Stocks . . . . 32,301 41,738 68,245 81,027
Loans, book debts,
etc 31,324 71,364 99,347 111,307
Cash, etc. . . 5,934 10,118 13,026 28,753
Between 1910-15 the book value of fixed
assets was increased by £03,229, and the
surplus of other assets (more or less liquid)
over liabilities expanded £13.249; but that
was with the assistance of £44,444 of new
capital and share premiums. During the
past five years no fresh capital has been got
in, but the liquid surplus has been cut into
to the extent of £36,722, while £42,459 has
been added to the book value of properties
and plant. Any comparison of past and re-
cent balance-sheet figures is, however, sub-
ject to these qualifications: (1) no evidence
is available to indicate the extent to
which properties and other assets have
been written down; and (2) the for-
midable liabilities, as previously shown,
may include accumulations set aside
for contingencies, some of which may be true
reserves. But though there has been only a
mild visible improvement during recent years,
shareholders will probably feel reassured as
to the co.’s position, seeing that the directors,
though facing an uncertain future, have
lifted the div. rate a half-point, making the
return equal to 15 p.c. on capital as it stood
before the transfer of reserves only five
years ago. The Board is certainly either
very confident or very rash.
* * * *
The Westralian Trustee, Executor
and Agency Co. (Perth) :
Dividends and Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Apl., 1912. .£1691 28 p.c.= £1628 £63 £14,144
Oct., 1912.. 1461 18* „ „ 1155 306 14,450
Apl., 1913.. 1888 26s „ „ 16S0 £219 14,439
Oct., 1913.. 1757 17J „ ~ 1150 607 15,046
Anl., 1914.. 1587 254,,,, 1650 14,983
Oct., 1914.. 881 10 „ ~ 700 181 15,164
Apl., 1915.. 1267 10 „ „ 700 567 15,731
Oct., 1915.. 1573 10 „ „ 700 873 16,604
Apl., 1916.. 1698 24* „ „ 1700 16,602
Oct., 1916.. 1102 10 „ ~ 750 352 16,954
Apl., 1917.'. 1721 23* „ „ 1750 - 16.925
Oct., 1917.. 2047 10 „ „ 800 1247 18,172
Apl., 1918.. 2043 22* „ 1800 243 18,415
Oct., 1918.. 2098 10 „ „ 850 77 1171 19,586
Apl., 1919.. 1426 21J „ „ 1850 19,162
Oct., 1919.. 2260 21 „„ 1900 360 19.522
Apl., 1920.. 1681 10 „ „ 900 781 20,303
For a score of years at least the regular div.
rate has been 10 p.c. p.a., but very fre-
quently something extra has been distributed
by way of bonus (generally Is. per share)
which has been promptly called up and added
to capital. Six months ago, however, no
mention was made of the directors’ intention
of applying the bonus then declared to the
payment of a call, and The Bulletin's sur-
mise that the whole of the div. and bonus
(equal to a 21 p.c. p.a. return on capital) was
being handed out proved correct. For the
past half the distribution again gets back to
10 p.c. This time the staff is given a
bite, a 10 p.c. bonus on salaries being handed
around. The £783 thus absorbed has not
been included with the profits shown above,
so the co. actually did better during the past
half than the table indicates. It is a very
comfortable little co., and is thought so well
of by Westralians that at April 30, £2,448,598
of estates were in its care. As a guarantee
that it will be of good behavior and carefully
follow instructions, the co. has £lB,OOO of
paid capital and £20,303 of reserves, with a
further £32,000 callable from shareholders.
“Ex-Banker”: The Vic. State Savings
Bank, through its chairman, did a bit of
boosting lately at Castlemaine. There are
876,000 depositors with deposits amounting
to £38,000,000. The Commissioners claimed
the bank was really a people’s bank and that
it “gave the highest rate of interest com-
patible with the safety of the institution,
and lent at the lowest rate possible to bor-
rowers.” But does it? Why should the
876,000 depositors be compelled to accept
oply 24 to 2£ p.c. for their money when the
joint-stock banks allow 4 and 44 p.c.? Why
is it taken for granted by all savings bank
authorities that the money of “the poorer
depositor is worth so much less than the
money of the richer depositor in the ordi-
nary banks? The savings banks can just
as easily get 6 to 7 p.c. for their loans as the
tradings banks, and lend just as safely on a
margin of 60 p.c. of the market value of the
security. Why should the Vic. Savings Bank
hold nearly 20 millions of Government
debentures against £38,000,000 of funds?
To me it looks like sweating the thrifty to
lend cheap money to undeserving Govern-
ments and to property-owners.
* # # #
“Old Banker” on internal exchange:—
The exchange rates levied by Australian banks
have always been regarded by the public as a
legitimate chai’ge, and under old * conditions they
were, to an extent, justified. The theory of the
business wps that the banks were obliged to transfer
gold from capital to capital, or from town to town,
in order to meet at those centres the known and
anticipated commitments of their constituents. Thus
the exchange rates adopted by the banks were
based, in the main, on the estimated cost of actually
shipping or railing gold, should the circumstances
require it.
But there has been a revolution in Australian
banking during the past 10 years. The Australian
Notes Act was passed by the Fisher Government in
1911. By that Act note issues by the private banks
were abolished, and Australian Government note
agencies, at which the banks can exchange “soiled”
for new notes, were established at the capital centres.
Further, the banks, instead of “buying exchange” on,
say, Sydney, can, by depositing Australian notes with
the Commonwealth Treasury, Melbourne, receive a
similar amount without any charge whatever from
the note agency in Sydney. And if a bank has
surplus funds in Brisbane, and the requirements of
its business in Adelaide demand a replenishment in
that, city, the matter is arranged by lodging Aus-
tralian notes in the former city for payment to
the bank in Adelaide. These facilities are utilised
by the banks, consequently they are not put to the
expense of “buying” exchange, nor do they incur
charges in the actual transfer of coin. Even if it
were necessary to transfer funds, the cost to a bank
would not be great, as Australian notes are sent
by post at the cost of the Treasury, and insurance
charges are light.
It will thus be seen that the banks under the new
conditions of adjusting exchange through the medium
of the Australian Notes Agency incur practically no
expense. The charges made by them to their cus-
tomers and the public generally for the issue of
drafts and the collection of cheques and similar
transactions within the Commonwealth cannot be
logically defended or justified.
* * * *
The pre-historic industry of tin-mining in
Cornwall has established a great record in
production. In the 16th century the output
of tin oxide was 700 tons per year, increas-
ing to 2500 tons in the 18th century, and
reaching 10,000 tons in 1880. In 1870 Corn-
wall produced 50 p.c. of the world’s tin.
whereas to-day its 7000 tons oxide per
annum represents only 4 p.c. The total
Cornish production to date is placed at about
2,000,000 tons, a figure only exceeded by
the Malay-Banka production, which so far
has reached the enormous total of 2,300,000
tons oxide. Australia and Bolivia are in
the running for third place with a produc-
tion of about 300.000 tons each.
* * * »
New Pinafore co., Lefroy (Tas.), has re-
sumed the testing of the Aquila gold lode,
which was discovered and worked in a small
way by Tearle and party a few years ago.
Driving west at the No. 1 level has com-
menced. The lode faulted near the shaft,
and New Pinafore is now attempting to
locate ore beyond the fault-plane.
Dreadnought-Boulder tin (Tas.) has re-
sumed crushing again, and expects to make
a reasonable profit from the fair-grade ore
recently developed. Plant has been renewed
and is now in good working condition. All
that is required is a high tin market, which,
with its usual luck, the co. seems to have
missed.
* * * *
“G.D.” : Australian tin investors have to
consider themselves fortunate that chaotic
exchanges have eliminated China as a com-
petitor in the U.S., for the South China
field can easily produce one-fourth of the
world’s supply. The Murkan Consul at
Yunnan describes prospects for China’s
export trade in tin during the current year
as very doubtful. In spite of the fact that
production last year was below normal,
there is now on hand in Hong Kong at least
0000 tons tin, of which 5000 are from Yun-
nan. This is something like five times the
normal stock of the metal carried at Hong
Kong at this time of year. Present returns
to mine operators are not considered enough
to justify operations, and unless there is a
and complete change in the situa-
tion China will probably have to suspend
tin-production for a time.


THE MOTHER
of
INDUSTRIES
THE INTERSTATE COMMISSION
states in its majority report:—
“It is impossible to in any way investigate the Iron and Steel
Industry without coming to the conclusion that its establishment on a
sound basis should, above all other industries under review, receive the
careful consideration of Parliament. In this industry only men are
employed, and there are few other industries which will so materially
help in giving healthful and intelligent employment to a large population.
It creates a continuous demand for skilled labor—from the chemist and
metallurgist to the artisan. Its products are among the fundamental
necessities of all trades, and, in view of the distance at which the Common-
wealth is placed from outside sources of supply, the establishment of the
industry should be looked upon as a National necessity, even at the cost of
what -may to some extent be a considerable initial sacrifice. Not only is
its foundation an essential requirement from the standpoint of the needs
of defence, but also for the everyday requirements of widespread
dependent industries. . . .the establishment of the main industry with
some vigor and vitality should be the aim of the Nation.”
THe Australian
Iron and Steel Industry


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-I!>9 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH .IUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
«3gS
Hotel
TARIFF
< 12'- pep Day
6'6 Bed & Breakfast
CiR. Ke I*l* 45 Swansfon 5\
j Melbourne i
King George IV
Jl WHISKY
4fr
TH E TOP NOTCH’ scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Bad Australian”: I know every- cornel* of
the mountainous country on the head waters of
the Seven Creeks, perhaps the worst wombat-
infested territory in Australia; and during nine
years’ surveying and prospecting over that Vic-
torian region my experience fully satisfied me that
the destructive cuss rarely a mile from the
burrow he was born in. “Joe Collins’s” wombat
that “wanders for miles in time of drought” ought
to have his head perused, as there is absolutely no
place for him, particularly in a time of drought,
like his native gullies, where he can live comfort-
ably on bracken roots and other fodder not pro-
curable on the flat lands at any time. Also the
wombat knows very well that he can bore through
a pack of dogs and a herd of cookies to the
shelter of his dugolit if it is handy, but if it
isn’t he cannot carry it with him or dig a fresh
one on 20 seconds’ notice. No, the wombat is not a
tourist.
» * * •
“Wind Bag”: It happened at Bulgeroo.
We were all sitting on the Blue Duck verandah
counting our prospects when Red Ned and Scotty
decided to bleak the monotony with a wrestling
bout for the long-distance championship of Bulgeroo,
catch-as-catch-can. We appointed old Dick Summers
judge and Porky Long timekeeper. Starting time,
2 p.m. Three o’clock saw them still going strong;
no advantage. Occasional breaks for rounds of
drinks. 4 p.m.: Porky out to it on empty beer
cases. Principals still going, well. Old Dick looking
shaky. 4.30 p.m.: Old Dick says to me, “
’em! Let ’em decide for themselves. I’m off for a
nap,” and he blew down to the stables. 5 p.m.:
I left the arena and went to tea. 6 p.m.: Still
going’; Scotty a bit shaky. 7 p.m.: Cloudy dark-
ness set in. I was just thinking about fixing up
an armistice for the night when I heard the Rcd’un
yell, “No you don’t, Scotty.” Scotty had fallen from
exhaustion. But Bung’s old prad was sauntering
past, and the Red’un thought it was Scotty trying
to get away. He took a flying leap and hit the old
prad square in the stern. Then the Red’un dosed
with the prad. We struck a light to see what
had happened. The prad had won.
“J.11.W”: “Barcoo” (B. 22/4/’2O) says
that Dan Ilassett, of whip-manipulating fame, was
helped to specialise in the art, or whatever it is, by
Adam Hogg, of Strathbogie. Ilassett asserts that
he knew Hogg by sight only, and never saw him use
a whip. The only tutor Hassett ever had was his
father, who was recognised as the champion whip-
handler of the Western district of Victoria in the
late ’seventies. Dan is now a resident of Brisbane,
and is to give an exhibition on the Showground when
the Prince arrives in July.
* * *
“Rox” : “Vin Blong” would get lost look-
ing for north (B. 6/5/’2O) if he had to find an
ants nest in some localities. A much simpler way
is to watch out for the side of the tree bearing the
most limbs and branches, and that’s easily seen in
oidinary open forest. Sometimes also a general
lean to the north is discernible to the average bush-
man. Anyway, the wanderer doesn’t want to have
to stop and search for anything, for he’d lose his
bearings while he did it.
* * * *
“Honi Penata”: I was coming through
the ranges from Clayton to Four Peaks when I saw
a sow and a litter of pigs in the scrub. I had no
gun or spear with me, but I wanted a bit of fresh
pork, so I broke off a manuka bush, sharpened an
end, and got near enough to jab one of the suckers
in the back. In doing so I caught my foot in a
root, fell and had to let go. The young one started
off squealing and I had to go without pork. Two
years later I was passing over the same bit of track.
I had a rifle with me this time, and sitting down for
a spell saw a movement in some flax bushes. I
chanced a shot, aiming to hit the bottom of a young
manuka bush that seemed to be the centre of the
disturbance. The squeal that answered showed I
had made a hit. Running down to the flax bushes
I found a two-year-old boar kicking his last. I had
pipped him behind the shoulders, just in front of
the butt of a young manuka bush that was growing
out of his back. It was the pig that had got away
from me two years before, and the green wood had
rooted.
* * * *
“Barcoo”: Romulus, the founder of Rome,
who was suckled by a wolf, had at least one abo!
imitator. In Far Western Bananaland, years ago, on
IVebber’s Kyabra Creek station, at the back of Ada-
vale, Binghi was encouraged. Consequently he was
found in numbers out of the ordinary at the camp
below the homestead. On one occasion they had
speared a bullock, and, becoming afraid, flitted to
the Cooper, further west. Mrs. W r ebber, who was a
kind of god-mother to the local abos., had a look
round the deserted camp, and made a curious dis-
covery. In one of the gunyahs a piccaninny was
being suckled and mothered by one of the black’s
dog-s. The child was between two and three months
old. When the tribe began to trickle back to their
old haunts some months afterwards the old gins told
the tale of how one of the young lubras had died
in childbirth, or shortly afterwards. One of the
station gins brought young Romulus up, and he
grew into a smart cattleman.
A cry from W. H. Gill, of East Camber-
well '(Vic.): —
In Australia we are living within the Palaeolithic
stone age of Europe. As the primeval men lived
with the aid of their stone knives and axes in
prehistoric times, so the Australian natives in
Central and Northern Australia are living within
this 20th century. This in itself is a wonderful
fact to realise. Australian abos. chipped and
ground their stone axes and knives, while the abos.
of Tasmania only chipped their stone implements.
So far as the aboriginals of Victoria are concerned,
it is only within the last five years that w T e have had
any knowledge that they made and used the minia-
ture stone chipped knives and scrapers which are
common also to the Palaeolithic and Neolithic ages
of Europe. A fortunate find on the sea coast of
South Gippsland. on one of the ancient native camp-
ing grounds, disclosed the fact that the natives of
WHAT PROFITEERING DRIVES A MILLIONAIRE TO.
DEADBEAT (to sympathetic soul): “Things is very ’ard with us blokes these days.
Tucker's ’ARD enough to get; but smokes — why, since the larst rise in the
price of terbaccer the toffs 'as took to smokin' their own butts!”
Victoria used miniature tools, which were found
in large numbers, made of diorite, flint, chert, quartz
and fine rock crystal.
Collectors here are much concerned, and a good
deal of controversy exists as to the purposes for
which the natives used these stones. That they were
made for a positive use is certain, for there is
a constant repetition of identifiable types and shapes.
And, singular to state, the majority of these
knives and scrapers bear a marvellous resemblance
to the Neolithic types of ancient Europe and Egypt.
What I want to do now is to invite correspondence
with persons living in close touch with the natives,
and who take a keen and intelligent interest in the
life and customs of the tribes of North and Central
Australia, with the view to establish positive
evidence on these points:—
(1) The making of chipped knives and scrapers'.
The actual tools used in the process of chipping,
and what these chipping tools are made of.
The mode of starting and doing the chipping,
especially the very small flint knives and scrapers,
and how they were held in the hand during the
process of making.
Was the form of the knife or scraper predeter-
mined, or was it more or less accidental ?
What tools were used ?
(2) The use of these miniature stone implements'.
What was the purpose for which these various minia-
ture stone chipped knives and scrapers are (or were)
used ?
How were (or are) these miniature scrapers held
in the hand while in use?
That certain of the flat, chipped, sharp-edged flints
were used for cutting flesh-food and also in certain
ceremonial customs is well known; but as to the
many other types, from the miniature knives and
scrapers with the secondary chipped edges, up to the
large “slipper” form of scraper, nothing is known
positively, though it is supposed that the aboriginals
used them for the finishing of their wooden weapons,
etc. The information asked for would be of immense
help to collectors generally and also of great scien-
tific value.
* * * *
“Delhi”: What is profiteering? Twelve
months ago fourpenee per head was considered a
reasonable price to pay per week to grass cattle.
Now, owing to the continued dry weather, -the
farmers have been unable to sell their young stock,
and are, consequently/ overstocked, and when they
go looking for grass they are asked Is. per head
per week by men who are loud in their curses of
the profiteer. I’m • waiting for some friend of the
drought-stricken cocky- to declare grass' a' necessary
commodity.
* * * *
“Carty Mac” : Re the introduction of the
llama to this country. A mob of 350 llamas and
alpacas were imported in 1860 by one Ledger, and
sold (to the N.S.W. Government, I think) for
£15,000. Evidently the climate did not suit them,
for in 1866 only 100 answered the roll-call. The
survivors were auctioned—in ’66, I believe. That
year squatter Johnson imported about a dozen
llamas to Victoria, but the venture did , not pan
out a color.
“Snell” : We had been to Big Boulder for
the day, and it was Elmslie who undertook to drive
us out to the hills, and bring us back in the evening,
for the sum of 30 shillings. Elmslie’s horse Don was
a great trial to us going up, but he set up a serious
nervous strain coming back. He was the slowest
horse alive, a great thinker, and possessed of a
curious action which, when agitated with a goad,
reminded you of a number of chips shaken in a sack.
It was a sheer pretence; it gave Don a specious
appearance of accelerated movement, but as his
hoofs came down in almost the same p'ace as he
had just lifted them from, no extra progress was
made. Meanwhile it was becoming increasingly
evident that we were going to lose our train at Big
Boulder. I expostulated with Elmslie and Elmslie
beat his horse, and Don shook up his bones till
they rattled, without making greater haste. I
complained again, and once more Elmslie castigated
his animal, whose bones bobbed about in his skin
in an amazing way. My complaint was repeated.
Elmslie lost patience. “Gorstruth! ’ave a bit iv
sense,” said he. “I can’t hurry him no more. Can’t
you see he’s boltin’?”
“Baba”: Gamada is ambrosia to Ham’s
descendants in Western Papua. It is extracted from
the root febrils and stem of the plant, a species ,of
Piper methysticium, of the same name, and is pre-
pared by chewing. The chewed mass is placed in a
piece of the fibrous sheath of a young cocoanut palm,
HELPING FATHER.
FATHER ( controlling himself): “Confound
it!”
INNOCENT: “Damn the flaming thing, you
mean, don't you, father ?”
a little water is added, and then the mess is
squeezed into the half of a cocoanut shell. An old
native friend of mine who had acquired a taste for
spirits while working in Torres Strait fisheries de-
scribed the effects of gamada thus: “Man he feel all
same he stop along heaven all same mission he talk.”
(Continued on page 26 J
THE HATTER’S HUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A lonely hut beneath a hill
Where the cold mountain waters spill
Over the high-browed waterfall,
Robed in its smoking, rainbowed pall—
A lonely hut among the trees
Shaken by water-breath and breeze,
Walled with rough slabs and thatched with grass,
Looks dumbly down the empty pass.
Two windows like an idiot’s eyes
Show neither interest' nor surprise;
To every change of Nature’s dress
They turn a vacant senselessness.
Impassively they view the sun
And slow stars passing one by one.
Lidless as Mona Lisa, there
They watch with wide, unblinking stare.
Through them the peerless moonbeams pour
Their tarnished silver on the floor,
And sudden blatterings of rain
Dash on them with a cold disdain.
Two great black spiders, feigning rest,
Sole tenants, move not to protest:
In open ambush there they lie
And mark day’s pageantry go by.
Sometimes a curious bird may stop,
Roosting upon the chimney-top.
Still as a calm-sick weather-vane;
And sometimes, too, as though in pain,
Lean winds go moaning round the eaves
Between the patterings of leaves,
When o’er the hut the ti-tis fly
To holes where their fat younglings lie.
At times a bellbird may descend
To plume upon the gable-end;
And once a falcon swooped to kill
A pigeon on the window-sill.
The w'eka, furtive bird and shy,
Pecks here and there and passes bj’-.
Each wild thing has its hour of call:
God knows the hut is free to alli
A WILLING WORKER.
THE LADY OF THE HOUSE: “Why, what-
ever's the matter? Yer look ’arf-
drowned. ’Ave yer fell in the water?"
DEADBEAT (who has just had the hose turned
on him ): “No charnce! That's sweat,
mum, sweat, through looking for work!”
Preened and with feathers all a-shine
They,, come to this mysterious shrine;
One winged and cuirassed like the hawk,
One wingless and with rev’rent walk;
Only the tui holds aloof
From this uneonsecrated roof,
Yet sends the few bold notes along
Of his incomparable song.
A mile away the bush grows thick
About a cradle and a pick.
A little stream, with little fish
That swim around a foundered dish,
Goes hunting through the fern to sing
A ballad • full of wondering;
While in the water, rusted red,
A shovel stabs the stony bed.
Stoop low ’and look beneath the fern!
’Tis of this host the birds would learn-—-
Why, when the dawn is cold yet bright,
No Wood-smoke rises curled and white;
Why the slush-lamp with yellow flame
Gave up its old fantastic game
Of shadow-play that loved to set
A burly form in silhouette;
Why two black spiders watch for flies —
Black pupils in those window-eyes,
Patient with ghoulish appetite;
Why the bleared glass repels the light,
Or lets it like a harlot in
Bent on unpardonable sin;
And who will open that door shut
By the dear Master of the Hut ?
MAORI LAND.
DARIUS.


MISS STEWART CUSTOMBILT.
( I’osed by Miss Manlynn Miller.)
VACUUM
SYSTEM.
“If you would have real motoring
pleasure, 4 devoid of all feed
troubles, INSIST that your new car has a Stewart
Vacuum System, or have it installed on your
present car.”
The Only Standard Petrol Feed System in Existence!
QUICKLY ENDS ALL FEED TROUBLES!
Ensures a positive, automatic, even flow of gas to the carburetter in all
weathers and on all grades- Absolutely trouble-proof—gives the car
the constancy of a Niagara.-
This claim is justified by its universal adoption as standard equipment
for cars. In less than five years it has displaced practically all other
petrol feed systems. This is truly a marvellous achievement. The
need for a perfect petrol feed system was recognised for years. It
remained for a device bearing the name of STEWART to offer the
final and permanent solution. Car owners accepted it as an immediate
relief from the troublesome pressure, and gravity systems. The fact
that 95 per cent, of car manufacturers have adopted it as standard is
sufficient proof of its efficiency.
AIR VENT
PLUG
FROM
INTAKE
FROM MAIN
MANIFOLD
GASOLINE TANK
VAU
l OWES
CHAMBER
CARBU*
ft t TOR
£.5.
Notice to Motor Accessory Distributors.
Stewart Motor Necessities are for sale by Wholesale Motor Accessory Houses throughout Australia,
including the following Inter-State Distributors:—
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD., 284 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ARTHUR CHRISTIAN, 806 Hay Street, PERTH.
BERRY & ROCHE PTY., LTD., 239 Svvanston Street,
MELBOURNE.
MARTIN WILSON BROS., LTD., 299 Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
CORNELL, LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
SYDNEY:
WHAT EXQUISITE PLAYING!
FROM the music-room comes the divine melody
of a Chopin nocturne, played in the flawless
style of a master. Surely only a great
pianist can produce such wonderful tone pictures.
“Who is the artist, and what wonder instrument
is he playing?” It is the—
BEHNING
PLAYER PIANO
and the performer is only a novice, unable to play
a single note by hand, but who, with the aid of
the Behning, is transformed into an accomplished
musician.
ft
;-fe
fghfg
7 fg
ĝfj
fg
3
No matter how difficult the composition, no
matter how little you know of music, on the
Behning you may achieve musical results that
equal the playing of the most famous pianists.
We invite you to judge it by its full and pure
tone. Judge it by the effects you may obtain
with the sensitive pedals, responsive to the
slightest degree of foot-pressure.
We will gladly send to you, post free, one of our Art Catalogues with
all our various player pianos fully described in detail, and giving par-
ticulars of our Easy Payment System.
W. H. PALING & CO. LTD
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


Remarkable Recovery of Mrs. McGinley, Ultimo, N.S.W.
Given up as incurable through Neuritis, but saved by CLEMENTS TONIC
THIS LETTER IS WRITTEN BY WILLIAM McGINLEY, HER HUSBAND, WHO VOUCHES FOR EVERY WORD OF IT
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.,
I write you relative to my wife, who has
been taking Clements Tonic for some time. Her
complaint is Multi-Neuritis, a most terrible
malady. She w r as discharged from a local hos-
pital as incurable and anointed for death by the
parish priest. I then, at the eleventh hour, tried
Clements Tonic, and the first few bottles gave
her relief, the only medicine that did.
When she got out of bsd she could only
walk with the aid of a stick, and only with my
assistance, while still taking the tonic. She at
last discarded the stick, and now she is walking
pretty fair.
I know, and the neighbors round about
here know, that it was nothing but Clements
Tonic that worked such a wonder in her
after having gone through oain for so long.
I am, yours .gratefully,
WILLIAM McGINLEY.
Mrs. McGinley lives in Bulwarra Street, Ultimo,
a Sydney suburb, and can be seen any day in proof
of the above statement. Clements Tonic can be relied
upon for the relief of Want of Sleep, Debility, Weak
Nerves, Lassitude, Indigestion and Constipation. It
gives new nerve, strength and energy.
GET IT TO-DAY AND GET WELL,
IT IS THE BEST OF TONICS.
All Chemists and Stores sell this world-famous medicine.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
Get it and recover that lost health.
Belmont’: When a bullock is bogged it
is a common thing among cattlemen to make one
horn fast with a rope or wire to a horse’s tail. I
have seen an ordinary, small saddle-pony drag a
dead bullock 250yds. in this fashion, apparently
without much effort. Some say this practice is cruel;
others argue that if it hurts the horse he wouldn’t
pull. Who’s right ?
* * * *
Wynbring ’: Any other Ati). ever seen
an eagle attack a wild dog ? Driving along
the trans-Australian (East-West) line a few days
ago I saw a dog running along the line about 50
yards ahead of us. An eagle swooped down on him,
but missed, and the dog made off into the scrub.
He then heard our car and stopped to look at na,
whereupon the eagle had another try for him, but
missed again. This was enough for the dingo,
which went for his life, keeping well under cover
of the trees. We managed to shoot one of these
eagles a week or two ago, and he measured 7ft.
6in. from tip to tip.
• * * * *
“A.E.G.”: “Agricola” advises “Timo” (B.
2O) that molasses, if used judiciously, will
prove u valuable digestive, although as a food it
lias not the nutritive value that many are apt to
place on it. I cannot say that my own experience
coincides with his re horse feeding, having found
that molasses intelligently used will give a glossiness
, coat never seen i'i an animal of the kind
Timo” describes as “hidebound.” His assertion that
molasses when fed to dairy stock tends to lower
cream and milk results is not according to Cocker.
If “Timo” will use molasses at the rate of one-
third to two-thirds water, preferably hot, and mix
same with good oaten straw (not oaten hay-chaff)
plus a little crushed oats, and after well mixing will
pack tightly in some receptacle (for this purpose
an old square tank with the top or bottom cut out
is Al), letting it stand well covered for 24 hours,
THE REAL GENTLEMAN.
"Bedad and O’Reilly has nicer worked since
he married that office-cleaner.”
“It’s the gintleminly instincts of ’im, Mr.
Casey; he always eshcorts Mrs. O’Reilly
to her work.”
during which a slight fermentation has set up, he
will be pleasantly surprised at the result. Rock
salt placed where stock have free access to it is
absolutely necessary when using molasses, but should
not be used in the process given above for obvious
reasons. The writer has successfully handled
molasses for sheep, cattle and horses, paying up to
£lO per ton landed cost, and has found it, when
properly handled, one of the most beneficial foods
during dry spells.
* * * .
“Te Whare” : Here’s how you keep slugs
and snails away from flowers. I saw the plan first
used by a lady of Gundagai in the ’seventies. She
got a parsnip and cut it up into flat slips, placing
a slip about two inches away from each flower.
About 9 p.m. she examined the slips by candle-
light, and on one alone killed 25 of the pests.
The morsels should be gathered up in the morning,
and till they get dry will serve again for bait.
The odor, apparently, attracts the vermin.
“McNorth”: For many years it has been
supposed that Possession, the irregular-shaped island
that sprawls in the blue water of Torres Strait just
round the corner of Cape York, was the repository
of certain papers left there by Captain Cook. It
was here that the navigator, having settled beyond
doubt the insularity of Australia, landed and took
possession for George 111. of the whole of “New
South Wales” north of the 38th parallel of latitude,
and somehow there arose a legend that documents
commemorating the event had been planted on the
island. Various expeditions have tramped and dug
the rocky hillsides, with much taking of bearings
and cross-bearings and searching in unlikely spots,
“ THERE'S BONES BURIED HERE
SOMEWHERE .”
but all to no purpose. I recently made an examina-
tion of the copy of the Endeavor’s log and other
papers in the Mitchell Library, and found no
reference to any documents being left on the island.
Cook’s account of the annexation is very brief, but
it is hardly likely that he would have omitted men-
tion of so important a thing as the depositing of papers.
Even if he did leave a record, it was 150 years ago;
and the white ants of those regions wouldn’t need
a century and a half to completely destroy all the
paper that Captain Cook ever saw.
*,* * *
“Pick”: The worst niglit-foe of our bush
birds is the ring-tail ’possum, whose perverted tastes
incline him to flesh-feeding, though his teeth were
built for gum-leaves. Cockatoos and parrots rest
securely in their hollow spouts, ' with the head
of the family last entrant—his formidable beak
protruding from the narrow
outlet effectually warns
off the interloper. But
outdoor roosters depend
upon the burglar alarm
and instant flight for pro-
tection from their nimble
and silent enemy. They
perch in clustered ranks
along the furthermost
slender twigs, where the
wind sways them undis-
turbed but the gentlest
tremor occcasioned by a
footfall on the branch
sends them scurrying with
frightened cries through
the darkness, and for long
after their fluttering may
be heard as they collect
for the next snooze on
another tree. The ring-
tail is not, however, always
euchred. He can spring
an extraordinary distance,
and the finish of his leap is often the back of a bird,
whose feathers alone remain when the banqueting
is done.
* * * *
“FY7”: “NorbelFs” story of the North
Queensland wayfarer who was given his change in
kangaroo-skins recalls a yarn told me by one of
the Skuthorpes years ago. He had opened a
saddler’s shop in St. George (Q.), having, accord-
ing to his own account, come from some God-
forsaken dorp in the wilds of the Upper Clarence.
He had stayed there only a fortnight, and during
that time hadn’t raised a single customer. One
morning, however, a tall, earth-colored youth walked
in and asked if Skuthorpe had any stringy-bark
stirrup leathers. Told no, he departed. As he
went out the tradesman had a look at him. “Strike
me,” he said, “if he wasn’t wearing a pair of dried
vegetable marrows with the ends cut off for leg-
gings!”
* * * *
“Nalla Dooh”: Has any Abo. with ex-
perience of termites seen them abroad in the day-
light ? I saw some this morning. They were
moving in a line from their nest to some holes
in the earth-floor of my camp. It is the first time
I have witnessed this in, many years’ experience
of the pest. All excursions I had seen before
were carried out by means of a covered way.
“Cockodrill”: Croc, prefers dog to any
other fare, and will often snap up one from a pool
into which he has been sent to retrieve dynamited
fish. On one occasion a second charge dropped after a
New Hebrides crocodile caused it to rise with the
dog in its gape. It seemed none the worse for the
fireworks, and slid away with its “piece.” The
croc, always wins if opposed to a shark in shallow
water.
* * _ * »
“Sysiphus”: I lived for two years entirely
alone with one other man. The nearest habitation
was 10 miles away, and' as we were at the end of
everything, no one ever passed our whare. After
a few months we used to avoid one another as much
as possible during the day, never working together
unless it was absolutely necessary, and only meet-
ing in the whare at night for food and sleep. When
two inen are thrown together in this way
the peculiarities of each assume gigantic
proportions in the eyes of the other. In
this case the breaking-point came when I
called to my mate twice that the billy
had boiled. We condensed into five
minutes the home-truths we had been
longing to impart for months. Owing
to holding widely-different views on the
subject of tallow versus scented soap, my
next companion and I decided to part
company. The milch cow was respon-
sible for number three severing relations.
Two mornings running she was A.W.L.
from milking parade, and had secreted herself
at the bottom of a steep gully from which she
had to be fetched. It was useless for me to try
to convince the misguided individual that cows
never do come home. I only know of one other
expression which denotes a period of time still
more remote than “till the cows come home.”
When wintering in Cairo in 1914-15, after the
infantry had departed for a destination unknown,
we of the mounted brigade had visions of being
left in Egypt on garrison duty indefinitely, with
no chance to take part in the argument at all.
One evening early in April I was yarning with a
Tommy over a pint of “beera” in the Egyptian Caffi,
and asked him if he thought there was any prospect
of our ever getting out of Egypt. He replied: “Well,
choom, I reckon we are here till the blanky Sphinx
calves.”
* * » *
“Merrigal”: In old Samoa the oath was
not taken in judicial proceedings by the prosecutor
or witnesses, but by the accused ; and the entire
occupants of a village would be sometimes obliged
to thus clear themselves. Occasionally a hole was
dug by the deponent in an open space near a
public meeting-place; the deponent thereby sig-
nified that he wished he might die or be inciner-
ated were he guilty. Holding and pretending to
cut the eyes with a knife meant that the deponent
hoped blindness or a violent death might befall him
if he lied. When they attested, as occasionally
happened, upon «n emblem intimately associated
with a particular god, they subsequently placed
their hands thereon, and imprecated the Deity’s
destruction if they were not innocent. A deponent
falling ill just after he had attested was, of course,
plainly a perjurer, and the god had got to him.
* * * *
“D.F.”: Tw-enty-six men employed by
Edkins and Co., shearing contractors, at Cambridge
Downs, on the Flinders (Q.), cut out 29,912 sheep
in 51 days, over 200 sheep a man per day. World’s
record ?
“Yarrum”: During a storm, in 1874, light-
ning struck a tree —the stump of which still stands
—at .Garden Hill, near Wollongong (N.S.W.). A
3cwt. splinter was carried a mile away, where it
punctured and wrecked a roof. The owner of the
humpy, it is said, consulted lawyer Woodward as to
whether he could sue anybody for damages.
“Wandi”: Current high prices of dingo
and fox skins have at last impelled trappers to ask
that such be branded by the official receivers instead
of the extremities being handed over to be destroyed.
Removal of scalp and brush practically ruins the
skin, besides entailing unnecessary official expense
in burning them. If
brands were used, as
asked, trappers would
make considerably more
money, and thus more
encouragement would
be given to rid in-
fested districts of the
pest. On the Maranoa,
where a white hunter
employed a large
number of blacks to
kill wallabies for him',
I saw a small pair of
clips used for punctur-
ing the ears, so that
Binfgjgrhi could not steal and sell them over again.
The punctures were Very small, and If something
similar were used for branding dingo und fox
Scalps and tails, the vulue of the skins would not.
be impaired.
“D 1135”: Talking of narrow shaves. A
man named Ilowley, while driving eight mules on
horseback up on the tableland near Cairns (N.Q.),
was caught in a thunderstorm. A flash of lightning
struck and killed the eight mules, and the horse he
was riding. Howley himself escaped, though he
got a de’il o’ a fricht.
* * * *
“Murkah”: The fox-terrier is the coldest
dog in the bush. On nights when that other mourn-
ful circumstance, the greyhound, isn’t seriously incon-
venienced, a terrier will shiver till he nearly sweats.
This soon knocks him up, and thereafter a very
depressed terrier freezes.
* * * *
“Moonie”: I too can offer my testimony as
to the ability of aboriginal George Tyson as a
tracker, but his strong suit when I had him was
snake-charming. Having found his snake—any kind
did George—his method was this. With a very
thin switch he smartly tapped his victim from head
to tail, each tap being followed by a vicious strike
from the snake. As the snake’s effort began to sub-
side the switching gave place to a gentle tapping,
and that gradually to a soothing rub from tip to
tip with the switch. By this time the snake was
thoroughly sulky, and refused to respond in any
way to the attentions of the “charmer.” George then,
much to the admiration of his fellows, uncon-
cernedly picked the snake up by the neck with his
finger and thumb, removing the fangs by breaking
them off with his pocket-knife, and by way of a
grand finale slipped the now-harmless snake into
his shirt.
* * * *
“T.P.”: Along my road four nippers
mounted on the one moke daily journey to and
from school. The holder of the reins is a short,
nuggetty Australian of nine years, named Bill —boot-
less, coatless and with a wisp of sandy hair sticking
through a hole in the top of his rimless felt-hat.
No. 4 is a girl, whose fat little legs jut out at right
angles to her body, and who hangs like grim death
to No. 3, who clutches No. 2, who grips No. 1, and
there you are. The quadruped is slow but sure
and steady, and when it spies something green near-
a log it wanders off to investigate. The quartette
aloft remonstrate shrilly. Bill yells: “Hang on
whiles I shake ’im up.” Down comes ,a waddy.
“’Old on!” squeals No. 2; “you’re ’ittin me legs.”
Finally the horse, discovering that the green is only
a label on a jam-tin, meanders back to the road.
One morning I was schooling a hunter for the local
show, and caught up to the quintette. William’s
eyes ranged critically over my blood horse. “What
do you think of him, Bill?” I inquired. “’E can
lep, can’t-’e? But can he gallop?” queried Bill.
“He can do anything,” I answered. “Wal,” drawled
Bill, “I don’ like ’is looks fer the flat. If I ’adn’t
these kids aboard, I’d give yer a coupler-mile go.”
THE TROUBLES OF A DENTIST.
MRS. PERFZOTFIT: “Did he pay you?”
MR. PERÈCTEIT: “ Pay me! Not only did
he refuse to pay me, hut he actually
had the effrontery to gnash at me —
with my teeth!”
I put my horse at a brush fence, and, later, look-
ing back, in the distance I saw octaves of legs and
heels drumming at the ribs of the moke, whilst
Bill’s waddy rose and fell with mathematical regu-
larity—the ol,d horse was investigating a Scotch-
thistle growing in a roadside gutter.
THE MISSING MOTIVE POWER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Menan, who flies a small machine,
Had taken wing to distant places,
Where rugged ranges rise serene,
And down their ribs the river races ;
And where the dull brown plains are lying
He spent a pleasant morning flying.
But where the speedy river doubles
Far past where Tester’s fences end,
Beset by sundry engine troubles,
Menan was driven to descend,
And found a rest in long, lush grasses,
Where once a year the wool team passes.
Then came a stranger after cattle,
And stood and gazed in dull surprise.
He had no ordinary tattle,
But ranged the view with searching eyes.
Then, finding no propelling forces,
Said: “Good day, matey—lost yer horses?”
victoria.
SILAS SNELL.
“Bill Bowyang”: Once a croc, gets a grip
on any living thing it generally takes a bullet in
the right place to make it let go. Yet I knew a
man who fought the cayman to a standstill with
only his hands to assist him. He was a Dutchman,
Van Someren, a coffee-grower. When bathing one
evening he was gripped by the waist, pulled under
water, and then flung into the air. As he fell into
the water again his right leg entered crossways into
a crocodile’s mouth. The jaws enclosed the man’s
shin from ankle to knee, and the reptile kept
shaking the leg as if trying to wrench it off. The
Dutchman tried to blind the brute by pushing his
fingers into its eyes, but in this he was unsuccessful.
He then gripped the cayman around the head with,
his left hand, and pushed the right hand down its
throat. Securing a grip of the flesh within the
mouth he pulled with all his strength, pushing at
the same time with his left hand. The reptile
coughed and released the Dutchman’s leg, and while
it hesitated what to do next Van Someren quickly -
got to shallow water and escaped. I’ll admit that
he had Chow’s luck, for the croc., instead of waiting
to fight, generally dives under water with its prey.
I knew an abo. who was not quite so fortunate as
the Dutchman. He was spearing barramundi in the
Burdekin (N.Q.) when the lizard grabbed one of his
legs and dragged him below the surface. Binghi
poked his thumbs into his enemy’s eyes, and the
brute released its hold. But the leg was so badly
lacerated that it had to be amputated.


fJL
ctcmmrrns
NUMBER
LARGE SIZE
fgjfĝ
4 muam
c
-7
Ab
*O/
*
O
r?xv
'V
s>
o <<
o
o <s>
r
m utttj uum


. AV
'tms,
I-*'’"
m
rrmTum
/ // 5
CROUP
A Plain
Fact!
EVERY Drop of
“Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street, SYDNEY. '
ment in favor of the story of its own country.
And, for another, that the society might
very reasonably expect a little more financial
help from the State than it has been
accustomed to get. All .its work has been
carried out for. years past by a band of
enthusiasts, of whom hon. sec. K. R. Cramp
may be taken as a very typical example.
Its Journal” shows how valuable most of
that work has been, and if these remarks
look like advertisement for the R.A.H S it
is a body that advertises itself so little that
an occasional trumpeting may very well be
done by others in its interest. In a hundred
years time some John Richard Green, doing
his Short History of the Australian People,”
will find himself greatly obliged to it. The
ate David Mitchell and the R.A.H S. will
have given him more help than he will know
how to acknowledge.
The list of exhibits in the recent show
is almost amazingly eloquent as to what a
vast amount of historical data exists in N S.
\Y ales alone. There are over 500 items in
it, and they range from the inn license of
i!oo C 01 ‘ the Jolly Sailor tavern, in
I<JS, to Sir Thomas Mitchell’s survey in-
struments, and George liignold’s contract to
ct i iri TT Australia and play ‘‘The Spectacle
of Henry \.” in 1870. There are records
of almost everything imaginable having to
do with people and places that might come
in between these examples selected at hap-
hazard—a chart of Terra Australis, by
Matthew .I 1 linders; the flintlock heavy
cavalry pistol of Constable Donohue, who
was shot dead near Linden on the Blue
Mountains by bushranger King; a shepherd's
crook used on Lieutenant Hobby’s station
near Bathurst, in the early part of the last
century; the series of sketches made by
vr "’ . ew l n - when he crossed the Blue
Mountains with Governor Macquarie in
iSl«>; Allan Cunningham's pocket micro-
scope; a receipt for a subscription to Henry
larkess paper The Empire ; the snuff-box
of Captain lOber Bunker, who arrived in
Sydney in 1793; a collection of early Aus-
tralian paper currency; the first gold cradle
made in Australia; a wooden plough made
m the ’forties; the criminal indictment of
a convict who called Lieut.-Gov. Eoveaux
a ~ liar”; the precept summoning the
first Supreme Court in 1815.
To the writer, at any rate, the old-time
clothing exhibited has a human interest that
makes it peculiarly valuable. It is some-
how possible from it to get back to the people
of the far-off’ days when such garments were
worn. In the United Service Institution’s
museum in London there is the silk vest
worn by Charles I. on the morning of his ex-
ecution, and in the Painted Hall at Green-
wich is the uniform in which Nelson was
shot at Trafalgar. Somehow, one seems to
realise the kind of men the wearers of these
clothes were better than from any portraits
or books. And so the wedding-dress and
bridal-veil worn by the wife of our old
friend Sam Marsden in 1793 : Mrs. Thomas
Hassall’s ball-dress and petticoat of 1822;
her riding-vest; a couple of nankeen hats,
and Mrs. Marsden’s house-dress —these give
one a better notion of their times, in a more
intimate manner, than any written records
of them can do. You get to know the actual
physical side of characters that are, in their
own way, historical. For instance, the offi-
cial vest worn by Oxley gives you a better
idea of what size of man he was than any
other you might have been able to form from
the contemplation of his portrait.
Such an exhibition as this has only one
fault —its transitory nature. For already
the collection has been dispersed, and only
a comparatively small portion of it will
be available to anyone but the individuals
who lent their purchases and heirlooms. It
has been so great a success, and has met
with so much public appreciation, that the
long-talked-of permanent museum of objects
of Australian historical interest might very
easily be its outcome. At present, quite
apart from privately-owned collections, there
are several belonging to the State that would
have a higher educational value were they
housed together, to form the nucleus to which
private owners would probably be very will-
ing to lend the relics, documents, drawings
and portraits that are in their possession.
The Mitchell Library, the Australian
Museum, the Supreme Court and the Lands
Department have each contributed to the loan
exhibition. It is more than a pity that the
documents and other objects of historical
interest in their possession should not always
be as available to the public as they have
been lately. After all, they belong to the
public. And their inspection teaches history
better than it can ever be possible to teach
it in the schools. Here is a very pretty
chance for John Storey’s Government to
manifest the culture which may be in it.
J. H. M. A.
A Satchel of Books
Through the Sunlit Year, by Ralph Waldo
Trine (Bell, London). A book of selections
from Trine’s writings which show him at
about his worst. The quotations suggest the
awful wisdom of a second-grade school-
teacher laying down the law to his youngest
victims;.
Desert Love, by Joan Conquest (T. Wer-
ner Laurie). The tale of a white woman
who goes into the desert and makes love to
a romantic Arab. The brown person mar-
ries her in the end. Nothing about the yarn
convinces; and the raging passion which the
author aims at disclosing looks a futile emo-
tion in the telling. A bad book badly
written.
The Surrender and Other Happenings, by
Mary Gaunt (T. Werner Laurie, London).
A book of well-told short stories. In the
title yarn an English officer with a handful
of native troops gets lost in a tropical swamp
and forces his way in the early morning
into German territory. Both Germans and
natives had regarded the crossing of the
swamp as an impossible feat. The little
party is prepared to surrender ; and as there
is only one among them who can speak
German he is left to conduct affairs with
the authorities. He is a black person, re-
cently dismissed from the civil service; and
after this native diplomat has spoken the
astonished Englishman discovers that the
whole German colony, lock, stolck and bar-
rel, has surrendered to his ragged handful.
In the other tales much use is made of the
semi-occult; but it is done very convincingly.
The Story of Our Submarines, by Ivlaxton
(Blackwood). Anybody who wants to know
in intimate detail wljat the British sub-
marines are like to live and work in and the
part that they played in the Great War can
find all he is seeking in this little volume.
The writing is simple and unpretentious, but
the author leaves little that really matters
unsaid.
The House of Baltazar, by William J.
Locke (John Lane, London). . An interest-
ing, well-written yarn in the Locke manner.
There is a middle-aged mathematical genius
who had disappeared into China some 18
years before the start of the story. The
sudden shock of the war on his mathematical
nerves forms the centre round which the tale
revolves to a happy ending. The book will
be popular, but does not matter; which is
a pity, because Locke has all the gifts re-
quired to write a book that really would
matter.
How Jerusalem Was Won, by W. T. Mas-
sey (Constable, London). Massey was an
official correspondent with the Egyptian
Expeditionary Force, and this is the record
of the doings in Palestine. Though there
is nothing new in the book, the events are
excellently grouped, and it should be most
valuable to the future historian. The writer
has too much material to handle to spare
the space for any really vivid description of
any part of the campaign. Even the dash
on Beers'heba resolves itself into a long list
of details; and the whole book is a con-
densed chronicle of happenings, nothing
more. Plenty of pictures and some maps.
Ihe Young Guard, by E. W. Hornung
(Constable, London). War verses, chiefly
about schoolboys. The lines are a good deal
better than most of those which the big
struggle inspired. Take a stanza:—
A thrush sings in an oak-tree, and from the old
square tower
A chime as sweet and mellow salutes the idle
hour:
Stone crosses take no notice—but the little wooden
ones
Are thrilling every minute to the music of the guns.
Again:—
Children we deemed you all the days
We vexed you with our care:
But in a Universe ablaze,
What was your childish share?
To rush upon the flames of Hell
To quench them with your blood !
To be of England’s flower that fell
Ere yet it brake in bud !
Billy-Bubbles, child songs by L. H. Allen
(Teachers’ College Press, Sydney). The
lines are smooth and generally mean some-
thing that a very little one can readily take
in; but they lack inspiration. Here is a
sample, “The Sunbeam” :
A sunbeam through my window-pane
Shines on the nursery wall,
And,shows me sparkling dots of dust.
A golden waterfall.
And twinkling in and twinkling out
In the long shining bar,
The flies go tumbling all about
Each like a golden star.
The average girl-teacher who makes some
attempt to reach the child’s mind should be
able to do as well as that with chalk and
a blackboard at any hour of any day ; but
she would hardly collect her efforts in a
book.
The Forty-first, compiled by members of
the intelligence staff (J. M. Rae, Brisbane).
The souvenir books published by the returned
men of the various battalions have taken all
shapes and forms, but this one is still a little
different.- It is a big quarto in colored
boards, printed throughout in two colors
and plentifully illustrated by T. Cross. The
letterpress provides a carefully-compiled
record with plenty of lighter matter to re-
lieve the bare facts ; and the pictures give
a very fair idea of the things the 41st went
through.
Poems, bv Marjorie Kane Smith (W. and
G. Foyle, London). These verses look like
the work of a very young trier. The crafts-
manship often fails and the pieces them-
selves never get very far; but there is a feel-
ing that with a little more skill the authoress
might have expressed herself to some pur-
pose. This stanza is about the best in the
book:—
What if your feet, your eager, running feet,
Were running up my stair!
What if I suddenly turned my head
And, in the doorway, you were standing there!
God! how the firelight flickers on the empty chair!
Little Hours in Great Days, by Agnes
and Egerton Castle (Constable, London).
Here is a great deal about a garden, much
complaint about the wicked ways of gar-
deners, a little thin philosophy and a remark
or two on current events. Some of the stuff
is pleasing, a good deal is tedious, a little is
pretentiously stupid. After all, the love of
a garden in which you lament over failures
without soiling your own hands is a futile
sort of passion. The authors of this book
lack the fine, sure touch necessary for quiet
work of the kind.
The Red Fury, by Horace Newte (Holden
and Hardingham, London). This pretends
to paint the horrors of Britain under Bol-
shevism and succeeds in convincing the
reader that, whatever the faults of the Rus-
sian movement, some of its enemies are very
cheap persons. The author admits that the
tale is a rehash of one he wrote against
socialism some time before Bolshevism was
heard of. Poor stuff.
A Short History of the Great War, by
A. F. Pollard (Methuen. London). There
is evidence of plenty of sincere effort in
these 400 pages; and as far as it is possible
to check the details a reasonable accuracy
has been attained. In such a history the
main thing is the preserving of proportions;
but it is still too early to get the proper
perspective. The writing is clear, but undis-
tinguished ; and the volume is supplied with
many useful maps.
The Infhdfky Way
From London :—•
General Monash’s “Australian Victories” has raised
a storm in the papers and out of them. Frank Fox
gave the story an excellent welcome in the Sunday
Observer, which is a critical heavy-weight, but
most of the notices have had a nettled and more
than half-resentful tone. They accuse the martial
Monash of pretending to more originality than he
actually displayed, and of forgetting that there were
a few Imperial troops on his right and left occa-
sionally. Returning to town after Sir Evelyn Wood’s
funeral, a group of the most distinguished soldiers of
the century discussed generalship in the Great War.
Touching Monash, they all agreed that, though his
time came so late, he had shown more indications
of military genius than any other general of his day.
They conceded that his “dispositions” and battle-
orders were models of perfection, and that his
tactical plans were exemplary in their conception
and working out. “General Monash, I believe, was
a volunteer* officer,” said one old Brass-Hat. “But a
military enthusiast all his life, which no doubt ex-
plains his success,” from another. “Oh, no!” said
the Australian present. “That isn’t the explanation.
He was a first-class civil engineer, and had studied
law and medicine as well. He had the use of both
lobes of his brain!”
The Bendigo Advertiser got fed up the
other night and in a burst of candor headed
its special message from Keith Murdoch,
describing the M.L. tour of the Prince,
“Joy-riding Journalist’s Drivel.”
“Bardie” : A Sydney daily brought Louis
Botha back to life the other day and men-
tioned that Carpentier and “Battling” Levin-
sky are 75ft. long. The Ob. Dean Swift-
Roseate Dawn cable, really giving the result
of a horserace, but transformed by Boulder
(W.A. ) Star into “The death is announced
of Dean Swift, author of that popular
hymn ‘The Roseate Hues of Dawn,’ ” is
reckoned by many pressmen the greatest of
all “howlers” ; but surely the highest flight
was achieved by the defunct .Fremantle
(W.A.) Mail. It was the time when the
London Daily Mail was sooling the Brit-
ish grocers on to Levers, the soap people,
and a message came over the ocean to this
effect:—
Grocers boy cott caused loss five millions Soap
Combine.
In the Mail that afternoon it was expanded
thus:—
Grocer's Boy.
Causes Great Loss to Soap Combine.
Owing to the action of a grocer’s boy named Cott,
the Soap Combine is estimated to have lost the enor-
mous sum of £5,000,000.
In the rapture of hilarity that ensued reck-
less spirits were offering a shilling a copy
for Mails, but there were few sellers.
Exit, after 83 issues, the Nationalist,
organ of the Hughesites in S. Aus. South-
wood, M.P., was editor and conducted the
funeral obsequies.
A respectable old London journal has been
rescued from the grave in which it had one
foot. Notes and Queries has a blameless
record of 70 years. It is the one English
paper in which an enthusiast can ask why
a Limerick is a Limerick, and do wood-
peckers really swallow their young. Natu-
rally the war hit it very hard. It ceased to
appear weekly, but was kept going as a
monthly. Now the Times has bought it up,
and it goes back to the old 6d. weekly form.
Helen Mathers (Mrs. Reeves), who 45
years ago wrote “Cornin’ Thro’ the Rye”
(last year a 53rd edition of 50,000 was
issued), died recently in London. She was
only 20 when she wrote “Cornin’ Thro’ the
Rye,” and she sold the copyright for 30
guineas, She estimated that she thus
lost £20,000, and she never afterwards sold
a book outright.
Sydney. Loch (he signed himself “de
Loghe” when he wrote “The Straits Impreg-
nable”) has got back to work in London, and
has sold his first short story very hand-
somely. From the cottage he has taken in
Surrey he sends an impression or two:—
I met Morley Roberts, and he put me up for the
Authors’ Club. He is here nearly every day, play-
ing chess, and I see him whenever I come in He
seems pretty versatile: he paints water-colors, and
is busy with an article on cancer. .. .Cunninghame
Graham is one of the most charming men I have
met—nervy, I should say, but with great polish of
manner and with delightful gestures, slow and full
of rhythm-
THE SONG UNSUNG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have spilled a hundred buckets' of ink
On a hundred miles of paper;
And I think it was not for meat and drink
Nor to pay the bills of the draper;
For always and always the hand that wrote
And the brain with the thought-scheme plotting
Held a golden dream-and-a-half afloat
Between the word and its blotting.
For hell I think is a hard-nibbed pen
That clings to a crooked finger,
Which for dread of holding its own with men
Toils on and dare not linger;
And the lowest deep in the place of woe
Is found in a brain tormented
By dull words set in a long black row
With the oil of the midnight scented.
And heaven, the heaven that is worth a prayer,
Is the full and eager flowing
Of a torrent thought that the worlds may share
And a good new thing for the knowing.
Then the pen is light and the heart beats high
And the magic ink is spilling
A softer light than the evening sky
That the first white star is thrilling.
There are fifty ages below my hat
That were full to the brim with longing
For just this thing I am driving at
As the crowded days come thronging.
I am all that was fair in a conquering king,
I am wearing the whole of his glory,
If the ink at the end of my pen will sing
One stave of a plain man’s story.
But it won’t to-night, for the theme goes ill
And the crude words jar in the making.
No, it isn’t the whip of an unpaid bill
That accounts for the bald rhyme’s shaking.
It’s the simple fact that a woman’s tongue,
With a wonderful, rich persistence,
Is throwing Mills bombs at my song unsung
From a mouth in the middle distance 1
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


BALANCE SHEET of
rHE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
With which is amalgamated
THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
Dr. as on 31st MARCH, 1920. r
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Proprietors’ Capital—
-62.000 £lO Preference Shares
fully paid up. .
276,000 £8 Ordinary Shares
paid up to £5 per share ..
~ Reserve Fund Account
t> Profit and. Loss Account
£620,000 0 0
1,880.000 0 0
• £2.000.000 0
1.200.000 0
180,014 15
Notes in Circulation . .
Bills in Circulation ..
Government Deposits—•
Not bearing Interest ..
Bearing Interest
Other Deposits—
Not bearing Interest ..
Bearing Interest
£232.826 7 0
2,248,642 4 8
£2,481,468 12
£11,093,340 14 11
9,223,392 14 2
20,910,733 9
~ Interest Accrued and Rebate on Current Bills ..
„ Balances due to other Banks. .
0
0
S
-£3,330.014 15
4a809 10
. 475,120 10
1
-23,398,202
. 251,262
. 236,526
1
8
0
6
6
Contingent Liabilities, as per contra, in regard to obligations of
Customers and others on Letters of Credit and Guarantees, and
also in connection with the sale in London of certain Debentures.
£1,057,839 ss.
£27,740,935
7
9
to
ASSETS.
«y Coin, Bullion, Australian Notes, Cash at Bankers,
ai M Money at Short Call in London .. .! £4,524 809 310
~ Government, Municipal and other Public Stocks,
Debentures and Funds .. .. .. . 6 919 614 19 11
Bills and Remittances in transitu
Notes and Bills of other Banks
Balances Due from other Banks
Duty Stamps
1.431,980 17 5
13,324 10 7
284,948 1 11
9,422 8 3
Bank Furniture
Real Estate, consisting of Bank Premises .'.
Other Real Estate
Bills Discounted and Other Advances, exclusive of provision for
Bad and Doubtful Debts
£13,194,160 1 11
26,068 19 2
550,837 7 0
60,729 S 10
13,903,139 10 10
Liabilities of Customers and others on Letters of Credit and
Guarantees, etc., as per contra, £1,057,839 ss.
£27,740,935 7 9
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Expenses at Head Office, 219 Branches and 109 Agencies
„ Income, Land and Note Taxes .. •
„ Reduction of Bank Premises Account ..
„ Transfer to Reserve Fund
„ Balance
£192,855 17 6
30,328 14 8
10,000 0 0
60,000 0 0
130,014 15 8
£423,199 7 10
By Balance brought forward . .
„ Gross Profits, including Recoveries, less Rebate on Bills Current, In-
terest Paid and Accrued on Deposits, Repairs to Premises, and Rent
£45,858 15 4
377,340 12 0
£423,199 7 10
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance
£1,200,000 0 0
£1,200,000 0 0
By Balance last Half-year
„ Transfer from Profit and Loss . .
.. £1,140,000 0 0
00,000 0 0
£1,200,000 0 0
The customary Auditors’ Report and Statement of the Directors and Chief Manager,
to comply with the Companies Act (Victoria) appear on the Official Report.
E. H. WREFORD, Chief Manager.
> l
m
k^
m
to
\
(S
\\
si
c
■ ifta
t
■ -
c?
«Ki
P erfect scones —perfect
cakes, puddlings and blanc-
manges when you cook
with Nestle’s Milk.
“ Nestle s ” cooking is
both economical and easy.
You save eggs, sugar and
butter —you save trouble
too!
CJ Write to-day to Nestles, 347 Kent Street,
Sydney, for Free Copy of a Valuable
Cookery Book containing over 100 recipes
for cooking with
Nestle’s Condensed Milk
Made
in Australia
N2OO


4 fgh
!• fgh
'I fgfg
f
ƒgjfg
jfgjf
jnf
6. jfA
fgjfg
SKIIMGETTERS!
Your safest step is to consign RABBIT,
FOX, KANGAROO, WALLAROO. WAL-
LABY, AVHIPTAIL, GOAT and all other
skins to—
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.,
Sydney or Brisbane.
Salesmen only. Not buyers or dealers.
“RED RING”
RABBIT TRAPS
COMPLETE WITH PINS.
Better, lighter, stronger, and very much
cheaper than imported Traps, and, above all,
are
MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
And giving universal satisfaction amongst
Trappers.
If unable to obtain “RED RINGS” from your
Storekeeper, write direct to —Sales Agent:—
R. N. KIRK,
25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
ffgjgjj
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & -
CAMERON LIP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
4*
“ THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
UJ
'/lowing
Bottle
de-mounted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Ice-Cold 72 hrs. Hot 24 hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from V 2 -pint up.
Icy-Hot Bottles are
ideal for all climates
and are made for
hard usage.
Extra Protection is
ensured by a coiled
spring and pad under
bottle which absorbs
jolts and jars and
makes the bottle
practically unbreak-
able.
Absolutely
Sanitary,
because the
spring - tight
neck - fitting
prev e n t s
leakage of liquid into the outer
case.
The Name ICY-HOl 1 ” clearly
stamped on the bottom of each
bottle is a guarantee of the
Standard of Perfection.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES.
Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
The ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.,
159 West Second Street,
Ohio, U.S.A.
Icy-Hot Jar
for solid food
or ice-cream.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
.'fJBMiTiSH
MADE
Perfection
F>mPC RUBBER
m
wwwm
mm
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
f gfg
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
fg
BRAND
Containing about 95.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust —Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES—Various grades.
SPUE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS^
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 35 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 63 Brooltman Buildings.
imm
Permanent
and Perfectly
Fireproof Structures
may be erected without expert knowledge and in the shortest
possible time with the
*
Standardised System of Building
MM
\
i
which is ideal for the erection of such buildings as
BARNS, GARAGES, HANGARS, WOOLSHEDS,
HAYSHEDS, MACHINE SHOPS, etc.
Units are interchangeable, easily erected, easily transported, no riveting
required. E'ullest particulars from
£
Si
I" MELBOURNE SYDNEY BRISBANE
Entirely
Australian.
s
i
w
%
SJ>
y
CO
mm
HAW-
GARAGE
.. / J.
Use the BRANDY Your Men J
Enjoyed in France fy| A RT E LLSI
THe Prince
of Pipes—
and typically BRITISH!
ƒgj
0 fg
)
f
fgjfg
k: fg
f
fgjf
EBG
Many Shapes.
Obtainable Everywhere.
A trio of Queenscliff (Vic.) infants put
up what is probably a record in a mainten-
ance inquiry heard at Geelong. The mother
of the infant was a little over 15; the father
was about six months younger. The Bul-
letin has no information about their
parents.
“Subscriber” : A paragraph (B. 13/5/’2O)
said that Professor Darnley Naylor visited
Mount Gambier to drum up subscriptions
for the new Scotch College in Adelaide and
left with 30s. Well, I know of one gentle-
man who gave him £lO 10s. and two others
who gave him a guinea each, and I feel sure
he received further donations; so there is
something wrong somewhere.
“Ex-Dig.”: We had been down to the
Somme, had seen the wreckage of the Fifth
Army’s retreat, had marched through ruined
towns and a fleeing countryside, had been
bombed for three hours in a sidetracked
train on our way north, had had a crowded
turn in the line; in short, had experienced a
fortnight simply packed with thrills. Yet
Bill, of my platoon, said to me: “Suppose a
man orter write home, but there’s nothin’
to write about!”
“R.S.V.P.” : One of the first things Harrold
Clapp should do in his new job as chairman
of the Vic. Railways Commissioners is to
relieve the taxpayers of the burden imposed
by dead-head employees. Under existing
conditions certain men are (1) allowed to
travel first-class on second-class tickets, (2)
given a long-distance pass to help them en-
joy their annual holidays. Sometimes these
expensive pass-privileges are extended to
members of the employee’s family. The
railwayman,, if he is dissatisfied with his
daily wage, has a means of getting the mat-
ter adjusted. Free-travel privileges at the
public expense, given “under the rose,”
should be strongly discouraged for plain
reasons of £ s. d., apart from the fact that it
is not straight business.
“R.C.M.”: Re George Fletcher Moore and
the assertion that W.A. got its name after
he had sung his song “Western Aus-
tralia for Me” at a Government House
ball in 1831. Moore arrived in 1830,
and as Advocate-General and sole Judge
of the Civil Court should have been
familiar with the Act which estab-
lished a Government in Westralia. Had he
turned to that Act (passed May 14, 1820,
before one settler had landed —Stirling didn’t
arrive until June 1) he would have found a
reference in the preamble to “certain wild
and unoccupied lands on the western coast
of New Holland, which settlements have
received and are known by the name of
Western Australia.”
“Smike”: Celery-top pine, mentioned by
“F.N.T.” (B. 13/5/’2O), is one of the most
wonderful timbers in the world. Heavy
when cut, it loses in six months half of its
weight without shrinking. It is unbeatable
for doors, sashes and flooring, and stands
alone for resistance to moisture of any sort.
It is the despair of white-ants. The Govern-
ment Entomologist at Darwin mentions in a
report that when a sample of “celery” was
placed side by side with samples of other
timbers “the termites swarmed” all over the
lump of celery but “refused to attack it.”
Celery-top is much cheaper than the popular
Baltic or red pine, and probably the reason
why it is not more generally used is that
it happens to be grown in the Commonwealth.
In timbers, as in other things, the prejudice
against the local product persists in face of
the most convincing evidence of its superi-
ority.
“Sandy McFlynn” : “I Say” (B. 22/4/’2O)
is wrong when he says Harry O’Brien, of
Yass (N S.W.), was the first to boil down
sheep for tallow. Wentworth, addressing
the N.S.W. Council in 1843, said: “It is
known that gentlemen with 10,000 sheep
cannot get credit for a bag of sugar or a
chest of tea.”'At this time Frederick Ebs-
worth, a Sydney woolbroker, suggested that
sheep should be slaughtered and boiled 'for
their tallow, which at that period was worth
£25 per ton in Sydney. Wentworth had a
boiling-down establishment sj: Windermere,
where, according to an ad; in the Aus-
tralian (Sydney) of October 3, 1843, he
undertook to slaughter and boil, for the
settlers of the Hunter River, Wellington,
Liverpool Plains and New England districts,
at Is. per head, while “such of the hind
legs as may be retained for the use of the
establishment will be allowed for at per
lb.” In the following year 217,797 “mon-
keys” were put through the digesters in
N. S. Wales.
“Bill o’ Costs”: In spite of his heavy sen-
tences “with irons” (B. 20/5/’2O), I
wouldn’t call old Justice Boucaut ferocious.
Stern he certainly was when the occasion
called for sternness, and he had a way of
shaking his wig at recidivistes with “You
are a dangerous man to be at large,” but
his whimsical sense of humor and his under-
lying kindliness negatived any ferocity in
his nature. When Boucaut “went up” he
marked his opinion of the inadequacy of
judicial sentences at that time, and he never
failed to visit the irreclaimables with long
spells of the jug; likewise to those to whom
he thought a whipping would not be amiss
he awarded it with a don’t-care-a-damn
for what the sentimental might think. Lat-
terly S.A. Judges have shown a marked in-
clination to tenderness—Gordon, J., who
defended his brother Poole, is the chief sen-
timentalist—-so it looks as if history is
repeating itself and that Poole thinks a
change is wanted. His mistake was in im-
posing a drastic sentence for an offence
involving nothing really criminal. The escape
from quod when laxity offered an inducement
isn’t moral turpitude any way you look at
it. The “six months in irons” which aroused
most of the storm of protest is the only part
of the sentence that was justifiable, since
this is a mere disciplinary precaution, and
the “irons” are light affairs which do not
involve more than a trifle of inconvenience.
Apart from that there is no sound reason for
additional imprisonment for an escape. We
applaud the British prisoners of war who
escaped from German and Turkish prisons
where they were properly detained under
the rules of the fight. All that is called for is
some deprivation of privileges and possibly
a period of “irons” ; but the rigor of dis-
cipline should be applied in two directions;
(a) to the convict to dissuade him from a
repetition; (b) to the sheriff and gaolers
to stimulate their watchfulness.


Digestion is the Process of
Assimilation of Food, wherehj
the Body is Nourished.
It is not the quantity of food we
eat, but what we digest and assimi-
late that nourishes the body.
When the Stomach and Organs of Digestion and
Nutrition are diseased, and the food eaten is only
imperfectly digested, there is loss of nutrition, and the
body loses strength as a natural consequence. Not
only does the system suffer from lack of nourish-
ment, but the derangement of the organs must
inevitably cause further complications. Indigestion
is a most prevalent source of Constipation, which in
its turn causes a disordered liver, and finally you become burdened
with Chronic Dyspepsia. Indigestion invariably arises from
improperly prepared food, hasty eating, over-indulgence, fatigue,
and exhaustion during hot weather, breathing foul air, excessive
brain work, and more frequently from cares and worry, which
exhaust the nervous force and weaken the organs of digestion.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a safe, sure and reliable remedy
for stomach complaints. They aid in the digestion and assimila-
tion of food, and in a mild and gentle manner regulate the
system, restoring the weak and dyspeptic to health and strength.
They give you clean bowels, a healthy stomach, a lively liver,
active kidneys, and blood that is rich and red..
Dr. MO
E’S INDIAN ROOT
MAKE ONE FEEL BRIGHTER.


gf
V
fgf
\\ƒgjf
/ ƒ
raf
2*ƒgfg
Hose of Luxite
Nobody can have better
Hose than Luxite—manu-
factured from the softest,
longest fibres and strong-
est yarn obtainable. Its
serviceability is a cer-
tainty.
Insist on having this
brand. Our enormous pro-
duction saves expense in
many ways, hence “ Lux-
ite '* prices are always
low. The soft, full-bodied
shimmer of Luxite Hose
is acquired.
If your dealer is unable
to supply you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
50 York Street :: SYDNEY.
If you must
rear baby by baud
adopt a food which approaches
most closely to Mother’s Milk,
and which yields positive results.
Mellin's Food is the tried and
proved equivalent to Mother’s
Milk; its success is evidenced
by world-wide recommendation.
Simple to prepare; no tedious
cooking —it is alike a boon to
the nursing mother and satis-
fying to the child.
MeUins
Food
Writ* now for sample of Mellin’s Food and
useful Handbook—The Care of Infants'—Free.
Then there’e hla Bottle Mellin’s Feeding
Bottle i* the perfect and simple Feeder.
Messrs. Gollin «■ co. proprietary. Ltd.
Fencing Wire
“ From the Ore to the Fence—
Australian.”
Strains tighter, seldom sags, is not
affected by weather, and costs less
than imported wires.
Get free Booklet N. 19.
AUSTRAL NAIL CO, PTY., LTD.,
313 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Wire Mills at Newcastle, N.S.W.
sr
Better
Farm
Fences.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
An y Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Irc.,
lIS West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
The EASTING SIDE-CAR WIND SCREEN
Just the Accessory You Want for WET WEATHER, WIND and DUST.
ADJUSTABLE INTO NINE DIFFERENT POSITIONS.
THE ONLY COMBINED HOOD AND SCREEN ON THE MARKET.
4
mm
.Hi
SYDNEY AGENTS
Bennett & Barkell.
Bennett & Wood.
Williams Bros.
Biden & Roberts.
Buckley & Omedie.
‘price, ONLY £5/5/-
COMPLETE WITH FITTING
AND APRON.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue giving
full particulars and Fitting instructions,
FREE.
SOLE MANUFACTURING AGENT.
J. J. WILKINS,
Crystal Palace Buildings,
586 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
m
•: ■:
, X
nn
EAM
xvMw/.v.
□
-
1
XvXv:
.v.v.v
’few!?
xSxw
Him
Sole Agents lor Aew South Wales: 1KASKR & umsi OKI), 822 George Street, »>*»«>_
Ask any man to name the six
best british cars and almost
his first word will be
“ Sunbeam.”
That’s how the Sunbeam -20 -
years-reputation has moulded
public opinion. And public
opinion is well nigh infallible —
even politicians recognise the
fact.
The inference is—consider well
the claims of the Supreme
Sunbeam before choosing your
car.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR
GAR GO., LTD.,
Export Dept. 62, Oxford Street, London, W.l
Cablegrams ... “ Subeamoco, London.”
Head Office - Wolverhampton, England.
Underwear Needs
Pure wool is woven to perfect-fitting
garments and finished by a special process
that imparts to the texture a delightful
smoothness, in the making of Jason wear.
Neither shape nor silkiness being des-
troyed by washing, Jason satisfies all
underwear needs.
Ask to see Jason undergarments at your draper’s
or stores : cold and warm weather weights in all
sizes and styles.
.-WOOL UHSMBINKABIB
UNDERWEAR
In case of difficulty write to
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
Few “ Olympic “ Brand. Chvxna to the. high
■price* of the name from which Jason all-wool
Goods are mode, the manufacturers hav* intro-
duced temporarily lower lines containing a ter
rentage of cotton— bearing nthencue the ante
guarantee of quality a< the. regular liner. ) our
dealer u-Hl supply you.
Only one person who described himself
as a barber has been a member of the Vic.
Parliament, and his tenure was very short.
The lone shearer was G. E. Roberts, chosen
at a by-election for Richmond after Tren-
with had gone to the Senate.
“Z.”: Old Wirefence’s whiskers bristled
as he tramped into the N.S.W, State Taxa-
tion Office. He demanded to see the boss,
and told the official that he would not pay
the super-tax as he hadn’t used any of it
on his land for five years.
“Zanthus” : With the price of brick ;ind
timber soaring out of sight, and building
tradesmen spending a big part of their time
striking, some of northern Victoria is go-
ing back to the adobe or pis 6 style of build-
ing. It’s very easy: for pis! all that’s
needed is a set of casings and a rammer or
two; then you shove the earth into the cas-
ings and ram it down hard so as to form a
sort of artificial sandstone. The material
costs nothing, and the result is serviceable,
if unbeautiful.
“Bee-line” : At 2.30 one afternoon recently
a Gundagai man wired friends in Sydney:
“Will be with you in the morning probably
before this wire.” One would have thought
that the Telegraphs would have rushed that
message through ; but the “rules” prevailed,
the wire merely took its turn and the Gunda-
gai man beat the Gundagai telegram by about
three hours. Then the Department woke
up, and everyone from Gundagai to Sydney
has been writing reports and explanations
ever since. When I last saw the papers
they were 3ft. high and still coming.
“Derwent”: Captain Milford McArthur,
the harbor-master at Hobart, has been try-
ing to persuade the naval authorities to
let him bring the Renown alongside the
Ocean Pier at Hobart. They asked if there
were two powerful tugs available to help
in the process. The captain said that he
never used them, but that he would under-
take to put the big warship in under her
own power without scratching the paint.
The authorities shied off the idea, and _the
Renown will lie in the stream. let
McArthur once brought a four-masted
barque alongside under sail.
Most of the girls who have danced with
the Prince are not sufficiently sure about
the nature of humor to know whether he
has it, but they all seem agreed that he
enjoys a joke. Miss Grimwade bears wit-
ness to that. His Highness remarked: “I
don’t know what’s the matter —the music,
or the time, or myself; but I don’t seem
to get along nicely.” Whereupon his part-
ner declared that both music and time
were shocking. “Now, you’ve said it,” re-
plied the Prince, “that’s the famous Re-
nown’ band !” His tone suggested enjoy-
ment of the fact that the young lady had
inadvertently committed blasphemy.
, The real tragedy of Gallipoli is that it
was the right idea in the wrong place. Hin-
denburg, in his recently-published memoirs,
declares that if the British had landed an
army at Alexandretta, or somewhere in the
Gulf of Alexandretta, they could have cut
the Taurus railway and knocked the Turk
out in one act. And in Cyprus they had
an admirable base for an expedition directed
against Alexandretta. Evidence is accumulat-
ing that Germany was in the direst straits
in 1916. Unity of command on the Western
Front, coupled with a thrust at Turkey’s
heart instead of her southern extremities,
might have settled the Hun’s business that
year instead of in 1918.
“L.L.W.”: The Newcastle branch of the
N. S. Wales Teachers’ Federation has been
censured by the central body in Sydney for
daring to ask the executive to do something
more than squabble. The rank and file are
freely accusing their officers of being
mere tools in the grip of the De-
partment. I am driven to agree with
them when I find the central body
refusing to allow the country branches
to read and consider the recently-prepared
log. Such astounding action amounts to say-
ing : “We may be your servants in theory,
but we shall commit the 8000 teachers of N.
S. Wales to whatever we please—and it is
like your infernal cheek wanting to know
beforehand ichat we commit you to!”
“T.P.” : For 40 years, as a schoolmaster,
I pleaded with parents to put their boys to
good, solid trades, which take genuine toil
to learn, and when mastered mean indepen-
dence. For many years I was as successful
as the hundreds of boys were, but of late
I have abandoned the work in utter despair.
My old boys are scattered over Australia,
happy and prosperous, as ironfounders,
leather workers, tanners, wheelwrights,
smiths, carpenters, etc. My lads now take
up barbering, message-running, livery stable
and horse-cleaning, or go into offices or
drapery, grocery and chemists shops; and
experience has taught, me that these lines
—with all save brilliant youngsters, who
would succeed on a desert island lead. to
dead-ends. The trouble lies in (a) limiting
the number of apprentices; (b) absurd
wages demanded for the boy starting on a
trade; (c) snobbish objections of many
parents to see dear Jimmy with a leather
apron and a black smear across his pietty
face. But it is a poor look-out for my
mishandled Australia.
The old argument as to which is the
dearest capital in the Commonwealth and
which the least dear is answered by Justice
Higgins in the timber-workers’ award.
Accepting figures supplied by Knibbs, he
fixed the basic wage for wood-cleavers at
]ls 6d a day in Perth, 11s. 9d. in Adelaide.
11s lOd in Melbourne, 12s. in Hobart and
12s.' Bd. in Sydney. Turning to the bush toilers
and contrasting their beatific lot with his
own his Honor quoted a verse from Clancy
of the Overflow” in praise of the forester’s
life Sadly he observed that
The foetid air and gritty of the dusty, dirty city,
Through the open window floating, spreads its foul-
ness over all; ,
place of lowing c&ttlo I C3.n h6cir tnc fiendish
Of the tramways and the ’buses making hurry down
the street.
But it is doubtful whether the poetic aspect
of the case will appeal to the wrestlers with
iarah and blue-gum. who expected a lot
more than his Honor gave them. They would
readily swap the poetry for another five
bob a day.


jfg
Dddgeßrqthers
MOTOR CAR
The goodness of the car is seldom called into
question.
The thoughts about it are the same thoughts in
thousands of minds.
The market grows by what it feeds on—and what
it feeds on is the performance of the car.
Deep and abounding satisfaction surrounds the sale
and the use of practically every car that leaves the
works.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
Dodge Brothers
Canada Cycle & Motor Co.* Ltd.,
. Melbourne.
Standardised Motors.,
Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co., Ltd,
Brisbane.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
Cheney Motor C 0.,, L,td.j
Adelaide.
SAFEGUARD YOUR health
QtJ.Collis Browne's
CWorodyae
The Original and Only Genuine.
TIIE BEST MEDICINE I'Oli
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
anti in tlie Cough ol HKONCHITIS aud
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery
01 all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, 3J-, 51
Hade in England.
hj
X fĝj
Velvety Shaves with
The “PLUM”
RAZOR
Is a pleasure you’ll anticipate.
This noted Razor is no new invention.
For many years it has maintained its
supremacy through sheer consistency of
merit.
The “Plum” requires but little strop-
/ ping, as its finely tempered edge keeps
f keen against the strongest beard, and
gives that smooth, velvety shave which
every man appreciates. Thousands of
“Plum” Razors are sold annually.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it *n order for two years, free of
charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
JO/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strops, 7/6 and 10/6 each.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2.
All the above Post Free.
SAFETY
RAZORS.
“Army and Navy” Safety Razors, with Strop, 12/6 each.
Ditto, in Nickel Case (flat), suitable for travelling, 15/6.
The “Army and Navy” Razor has our fullest recommendation.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 Georgf Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
cnsJand cailfn^!
To the Tourist, Scientist, Investor
and, with a hundred voices from her millions
of acres, to the Man in search of Land.
Free Information on all subjects
a available at once on receipt of this coupon.
Name
Address.
Queensland Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Brisbane. ~~
S.B.
GENUINE PICKERING
GOVERNORS. All Types,
fin. to 4 inches.
Intercolonial
Boring Co. Ltd.
BRISBANE,
Engineers’ Merchants, Manufacturers.
Engineering Requisites of all Descriptions.
Hercules Windmills Hercules Oil Engines Hercules Boring Plants
I.B.C. Horizontal Steam Engines I.B.C. Walking Beam Pumping Plants
I.B.C. Brass Artesian & Well-Pump Cylinders I.B.C. Centrifugal Pumps
I.B.C. Power Working Heads I.B.C. Syphon Windmill Pumps
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Cast Iron and Wrought Steel
Pulleys, Circular Saw Benches and Spindles, Crab Winches
Bondon Pattern Blocks, etc., etc. J
Offices and Warehouses*—418-424 and 450-460 Ann Street,
Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane. Works-—Yeerongpilly. *
Trams pass near by.)
A SOLID WALL OF
GOOD WILL.
Nothing has ever disturbed the demand for
this car.
Not for a month, not for a week, not for
'a single day.
Having only one car to build Dodge Brothers
have been able to build it better and
better.
But in the sense of radical changes, it is
the same car to-day it was when they
designed it.
And still the demand goes on growing greater
and greater.
No outside conditions, no conditions inside
the industry, seem to slow it up a par-
ticle.
The people want the car more intensely at
this moment than they ever wanted it
before.
This in the face of the fact that production
is at the highest peak it has ever
reached.
And in the face of the further fact that the
sales in five years have been more than
four hundred thousand cars.
You can find out why this is so from what
people are saying about the car all
around you.
For months and months they talked par-
ticularly of its performance.
Now, you will hear even greater emphasis
laid on its economy.
You will hear that with thousands of cars
in use, Dodge Brothers dealers have
practically no use for repair parts.
That rumor is true. Accidents are the chief
source of demand for Dodge Brothers
repair parts.
You will hear that the cost of maintenance
is practically nil.
This, too, is true in thousands of cases.
You will hear that the car consumes an
unusually small amount of petrol and
oil.
This is literally true—of every Dodge Bro-
thers car, under all conditions.
You will hear that it is very difficult to find
Dodge Brothers cars for sale at second-
hand anywhere.
You will also hear that the second-hand
price is only a little lower than the first
price.
Both of these things are true —not in one
city, nor in one State —but all over the
world.
You do not hear people talking about tlie
price of the car.
But you do hear them talking everywhere
about the kind of a car it is.
In short, wherever you find a Dodge Bro-
thers car you will find it surrounded
by friends.
You will find it running, from morning to
night, in an atmosphere of goodwill.
No illwill anywhere, goodwill everywhere—
goodwill that grows out of its good
work.
No one knows the value of this goodwill any
better than the Dodge Brothers know it.
No one counts more on it, nor works harder
to deserve it.
This is your guarantee when you buy one
of Dodge Brothers cars—the great good-
will that all the owners feel toward it
and the High Value which Dodge Bro-
thers place on that goodwill.
And that this is appreciated by Australians
is evidenced by the fact that the Stand-
ardised Motors, Limited, and other
Dodge Brothers dealers in the Com-
monwealth have found it almost impos-
sible to satisfy the ever-increasing de-
mand for the car.


Will prove a revelation to those
who use it for the first time be-
cause of its absolute purity, deli-
cate medication, refreshing fra-
grance and super-creamy emol-
lient properties for preserving,
purifying and beautifying the
skin and complexion, two soaps
in one at one price.
On rising and retiring smear the face with Cu-
tioura Ointment, wash off in five minutes with
Cuticura Soap and hot water, using plenty of
Soap, best applied with the hands which it
softens wonderfully, and continue bathing
with Soap two minutes. Soap to cleanse
and Ointment to heal. “R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, TV. S. W." Sold everywhere
LADIES! GENTS! CONFECTIONERS!
Make Sweets at One-third the Price
you now pay for them.
The man or woman who has not the courage to
make a business venture, and the grit and determina-
tion to push it to success, will always be found
the underpaid servant of the fellow who did have
the courage to make a start. Home confectionery
manufacturing by our system offers the greatest
opportunity in the country to-day for engaging
in business for yourself with only a couple of pounds
capital. The following few lines may help many of
you who have been hit rather hardly by the new rise
in prices of confectionery to write for details of our
instruction KEEP A-GOIN’.
When you strike a thorn or rose
Keep a-goin’.
When it hails or when it snows,
Keep a-goin’.
’Tain’t no use to sit and whine
When the fish ain’t on your line:
Bait your hook and keep on tryin’—
Keep a-goin’.
For particulars write to
R. & E. CROAKER,
Confectionery Instructors,
UNIVERSAL CHAMBERS,
325 COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
To those in Victoria. —Our Showrooms are open
daily from 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. Inspection invited.
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman,' Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Book now for Winter months.
Tariff from 15/- per day, or from
3% guineas per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY.
GOUT v
AND RHEUMATIC PILLS
The Famous Medicine that relieves
RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA,
The Great Discovery of the A go.
I Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. English price, 1/3 and 3/-.
Prout & Go., 229, Strand, London.
PARSONS
Marine and
Stationary
OIL ENGINES
Made in Sizes
from 7 h.p.
to 90 h.p.
KEROSENE
or
PETROL.
FG
14-h.p. Marine Set.
ROBERT GRANT,
03 Pitt Street
SYDNEY.
I
'I
dsr
y
#5
6
On the safeguarding of Women’s
health depends the future of our race
Woman, be she maid or mother, owes it not only to herself but
also to the Slate to safeguard her health by taking every reason-
able precaution against all ailments, big or. little, that militate
against efficiency and general well-being. One such precaution
which thousands of women—and men, too, for that matter —
have adopted to their own and their country’s lasting benefit is
the Kruschen Habit. A daily morning dose of Kruschen Salts,
the home aperient and diuretic tonic, first establishes and then
maintains that regularity of habit which is the basis of habitual
good health. Get the Kruschen Habit—persevere with it!
You will be benefiting both yourself and your posterity.
AUSTRALIAN
°fi|OF
2/6
per bottle
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
MESSRS. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Proprietors, E. Griffiths Hughes <Kruschen) Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade. Manchpcter '
**9
e*
J
o
A Spirit
thatmaKes
You feel fine
.«*6w£m
ALWAYS LOOK FOR CAPTAIN COOK
NEW AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY.
BIG SUCCESS ASSURED.
No one can deny that it is good for Australia at
this juncture to keep in the country all the money
that can be kept here. Let us employ our own
people, and give the money that is at present paid
to outsiders for work that we can do ourselves.
Americans are doing the best for themselves; let
us do the best for ourselves. Why suppress the
talents of our people instead of endeavoring to expand
them, as the true Australian instinct should prompt
us to do? It is for Australians to make opportuni-
ties. Judicious investments made now in the pic-
tures-creation field will enormously increase in value
as the years go by. What is presented now is an
opportunity to get in on the ground floor and watch
the industry grow. Meanwhile, receiving excep-
tional profits. The demand for pictures is estab-
lished, and we have in Australia all the require-
ments for every class of picture. The Francis Birtles
proposition is designed to link them up, and any
one interested may obtain prospectus and applica-
tion form on application to Francis Birtles Film
Enterprises, G.U.O.O.F. Buildings, Sydney, pending
the opening of branches in every State of the Com-
monwealth.
[3
Queensland had 605 acres under cotton crop
in 1911, and had successfully climbed down to
203 acres in 1918. Yet the yield for 1918
was worth £8 6s. Bd. per acre, so a 12-
bushel wheat crop would have to fetch 14s.
per bushel to do as well.
“Sunset”: When the Prince strikes Tar-
coola (S.A.), on his trip along the East-
West line, he will get something unique in
the way of presentations. It will be an
address by N. W.' Simons, the Tarcoola
poet and storekeeper, written on a dingo-
skin that has been turned into vellum.
The Princelet, in a prepared reply to an
address from the Melbourne City Council,
addressed Gaud Mayor Aikman as “Your
Worship,” not “Your Lordship.” It was a
wonder the special stand erected outside the
Town Hall in Swanston-street for the city
councillors, their sisters, cousins and aunts,
didn’t collapse.
Premier Storey has a pose of baby aston-
ishment. He was stunned on finding out the
horrors of the N. S. Wales finances, which are
published every month. Then he went out
with an eye to repairs to look at the Parra-
matta-Sydney road, which has been unpub-
lishable for five years, and was amazed at
that. One of these days John will discover
the harbor.
“P. Pawnticket”: In Launceston (Tas.) a
casual housebreaker helped himself to a shave,
a meal and a change of clothes, but forgot to
remove £8 worth of war-saving certificates from
the discarded coat. A recent Strathfield
(N.S.W.) burglar was more methodical as
well as more polite. Pleased with the
dinner he found in the pantry and the £lO
he collected in the bedroom, he left 3s. 6d.
for the meal and a courtly note of thanks
for, the cook.
“Zanthus”: It isn’t only in merinos that
Australia allows her competitors the pick of
her stud sheep. The same thing is happen-
ing with the new Corriedale breed ; in fact,
Corriedale rams have lately been exported
to America, Japan and South Africa. Which
reminds me that years ago Colac (Vic.)
onion-growers sold a lot of onion seed to
Japan. Now, when prices are good, the
Jap onion-growers reply with shipments of
onions grown from Victorian seed, and lap
up the cream of the market.
In the bitterness of its recrimination the
Storey Government (N.S.W.) published the
list of free railway passes issued under its
hated predecessor during January. They
numbered 47, which is less than some people
imagined, and the value was less than £3OO.
A curious fact is that Queensland Labor
politicians and their women relatives
accounted for 19 of them so far as the recipi-
ents can be identified. The name of Lennon
occurs seven times. Perhaps this free-and-
easy habit helps to account for Queensland’s
railway shortage.
“Sierra”: The one-time clipper-ship Mel-
bourne has struck her last job. Site has
been converted into a coal-elevator capable
of bunkering steamers at the rate of 200
tons an hour. As she lies at Darling Island
(Sydney) with her upper works demolished,
coal-grabs fitted to her starboard deck, and
a couple of 60-foot elevators towering over
her port side, it is hard to realise that she
was once a famous flier. In 1875 she put
up a world’s record by running 5100 miles
in 17 days on a passage from London to
Melbourne. About 30 years ago she was
re-named Macquarie, and years later passed
under the Norwegian flag and received her
present name, Fortuna.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: In 1853 there
came to Melbourne as chief steward and
providore of a crack sailing-ship (which
also brought James Hingston, “the Austra-
lian Abroad”) Archibald Menzies. His
wife was with him, and they decided to give
up the sea and open a good hotel in Mel-
bourne. Their choice fell on a fine house
in Latrobe-street, which had been built for
Governor La Trobe. It stood well back from
the road; but a bar was built flush with
the street on a part of the frontage. Here
for some 14 years Menzies flourished. In the
mid-’sixties he decided to migrate to premises
nearer the railways and boats. The house
on the corner of Williams and Bourke streets
was the result, and it has remained in the
hands of the Menzies family ever since, Nor-
man, who died the other day, succeeding his
parent about 30 years ago.
“Pat Roll”: Things are going hard with
the new settler in Papua. In the Central
Division, of which Moresby is the chief
European settlement, an ordinary wild sav-
age from the Delta now receives 10s. per
month, plus food, -clothing (four loincloths
a year), medical expenses, housing and fare
to and from his village This works out at
an all-in cost of £2 ss. per moon. Other
“boys” of some little experience in ruining
food (no Papuan can ever learn cooking)
get from 15s. to 80s. a month. The rise in
the cost of “trade” has inflated wages, for
Brown Brother soon discovered that the
purchasing power of the white man’s silver
had shrunk. Ordinary near-camphorwood
boxes that sold for 10s. in 1914 now cost
225. 6d., nigger-twist tobacco has risen from
ss. 6d. to Bs. 6d. per lb., print from 6d. to
Is. 6d. a yard, knives and axes have climbed
over 200 per cent., and other goods in pro-
portion. Rice, the staple food of indentured
labor, has aeroplaned from £ll to over £6O
per ton, and tinned fish (much beloved by
Percy Papua) from ss. 6d. doz. to 12s. doz.
lib. tins. And there are indications of a
further advance in prices. To the energetic
Australian settlers who are opening up new
cocoanut and rubber plantations, the abnor-
mal conditions are particularly distressing,
and development must necessarily be sus-
pended until things move back towards nor-
mal. Luckily for the owners of producing
estates, the upward tendency has affected
the selling value of copra, which is fetching
£37 10s. per ton in Moresby, while rubber
has topped 2s. 7d. per lb. in London. At
present the settler has a hard row to hoe,
for he is entirely dependent on his own re-
sources. The establishment of an Agricul-
tural Land Bank to which a man could go
for assistance to tide him over the years of
development (nine for cocoanuts, five for
rubber) would quickly fill Papua’s rich
lands with the right sort of settler—the indi-
vidual plantation owner. Companies are all
right in their way, but the real backbone of
a country is the individual producer, and
Papua has plenty of room for him.


SOMETHING NEW in SHAVING SOAP :
The REXONA Triangular Stick
■/ • ,
mm
jW- (f.
u
§0
m
Mr. IJ. BUI ST and CUSTOMER.
(From a photo.)
HERE is a new idea in Shaving Soap—another Rexona triumph one
this time which will be appreciated by men wherever beards grow.
Rexona Shaving Soap contains the same Oils and Essences which
have made Rexona famous the world over, and is made on the Rexona
formula, and thus makes a Shaving Stick which is a Soap and lotion com-
bined. It makes for comfort and hygiene in shaving, and tempers the skin
against wind and bad weather.
REXONA SHAVING STICK (Medicated) is Rexona Soap specially treated
so as to produce a thick, creamy lather which will soften the beard and
improve the skin at the same time. It is delicately perfumed, and medi-
cated on the same principles as Rexona, and not only produces a lasting
lather, but purifies and leaves the skin in perfect condition. Being an anti-
septic Medicated Soap, it has a tendency to quickly heal any cut you may
have the misfortune to get, and if troubled with pimples or blotches of
any kind will daily tend to improve them.
REXONA SHAVING SOAP is the highest standard of Shaving Soap that
it is possible to produce, and a good Shaving Soap means everything to a
shave, for if the beard is properly lathered a shave is a delight; but if the
beard is not properly lathered, but is stiff and harsh, it is not only severe on
the user, but hard on the razor.
EVERYONE knows how delightful Rexona Soap is for the toilet, and
Rexona Shaving Soap will be found equally as pleasant for shaving. No
cake of Rexona Soap and no stick of Rexona Shaving Soap is ever marketed
unless in perfect condition, for we market Rexona Soap as the finest of the
fine, and the scientific skill employed in its manufacture, and the absolutely
first quality of materials used produce in Rexona Soap and Rexona Shaving
Soap, Soaps of superlative quality, which represent the highest possible stan-
dard that we can offer to the public regardless of expense.
Follow a Master Hairdresser’s Advice.
He Knows What’s Good. You Try a Rexona Shave
I have been a Master Hairdresser in Sydney for the past 35 years, and during that time have tried many shaving soaps with a view of
recovering one suitable for use in my saloon, and after giving your Rexona Triangular Shaving Stick a trial, great was my surprise
to hnd I had at last secured a suitable soap, one which has given entire satisfaction. It lathers excellently, and softens the beard
better than other soaps I have used, and at the same time it leaves the face free from all irritation.
I have always been a great advocate for Rexona Triangular Shaving Stick, as I realise that it has no other equal, both for preserving
the skin and its economical value.
Your wonderful Shaving Soap I will recommend to my friends and customers, well knowing that they will be rewarded after a trial.
Yours truly, H. BUIST, Culwulla Chambers, Sydney.
“Rexona Shaving Soap is miles
ahead of anything I ever came
across before,” says Signaller Yard.
CECIL N. YARD, Signaller, Ist A.L.H. Brigade, returned from Palestine with the
rest of the Brigade, and wrote us the following letter in praise of Rexona Shaving Stick:
I am using that new triangular Rexona Shaving Stick of yours, and want to tell you
how good I have found it. It lathers better than anything I have tried before, and
keeps the skin in excellent condition. I find that by using Rexona Shaving Stick you
~VT~.
aO^
OF
OCT
50"
mm
mm
5
1
proP
Re*° r,s
alia
Ao' f
16
Reduced facsimile of the Triangular Stick
never have any roughness or blisters on your face
after shaving, but a smooth, nice surface.
Rexona Shaving Stick is miles ahead of anything
I have ever come across before, and the razor
seems to simply glide over my face when I use
Rexona Shaving Soap. lam recommending it to
all my pals.
Wishing you every success,
I am, yours truly,
C. N. YARD,
48 Jersey Road, Woollahra, Sydney.
Signaller C.
A\ YAl'I). (From a photo.)
WATCH FOR THE TRIANGULAR STICK.
Rexona Shaving Soap will be found the most economical Shaving Stick on the market, but care
should be exercised not to dip the Stick in the water, but wet the face and apply the Shaving
Soap dry. A few applications with the shaving brush will quickly produce a thick, creamy lather,
which lasts, and thoroughly softens the beard, leaving the skin in a healthy and hygienic condition
after the shave. Everyone should use a Medicated Soap for shaving, for after going over the face
with the razor and removing the beard, the skin needs a protection from the germs carried by the
dust which everyone has to face.
Rexona Shaving Soap is something entirely new in every respect. Watch for the triangular enamelled
box, for Rexona Shaving Stick is not round like the old-fashioned kinds, but triangular,. and packed
in a triangular, enamelled box, tasty easy to hold, and dainty in every respect. Price 1/6.


CHUNDER LOO CRACKING STOCKWHIP.
Wt/S'
A
/n
\
*
AT#
v
v
a
7
fi
?
WJ
¥4
mm
i
/
5»
»>
<M!
/
m
9/
r
#
a
/;7) /,/ \f
#KVf‘
<«vO t •» C
’t/.LS.
r / ; iMf
JWC-j*Wi
Cobra,” Sfre Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Swings a merry
Stockwhip, too.
Crack-crack-crack!
The people stare
As the lash writes
Ip the air.
Whiz-z! The circling
Boomerang
Flies around the
“COBRA” gang!
Bring the Prince
Along this way
For a real
Australian day!


SE
&
% \
Twelve Years Ago an Idea—
Now a World-Wide Building Material
BEAVER BOARD is a
product of the forests.
Great logs of spruce are
its source of supply. It
is knotless, crackless
manufactured timber,
built up into large pan-
els ready to be nailed
to the studding of new
buildings and partitions
or to old cracked walls
and ceilings. It takes
the place of both lath
and plaster. Due to the
patented Sealtite process
it has an ideal surface
for painting and deco-
rating.
SUCH is the progress of Beaver Board. In a dozen years it
has grown from the pioneer specialty to a staple building
material. Wherever there are walls and ceilings to be built, old
cracked paper surfaces to be covered, useless spaces to be
made useful, Beaver Board has a real economical mission
to perform.
Beaver Board is a basic material of great practical use in pro-
viding beautiful paneled effects with substantial surfaces
that never will crack. There is not the muss and fuss of
plaster with its attendant delays and uncertain effects.
Beaver Board is the most versatile of building materials. You
can use it for walls, ceilings, partitions, panels, wainscots in
homes, bungalows, cottages, stores, offices, factories, churches,
and theatres.
It won’t warp, crack, chip or fall. It is sound, cold, heat and damp
proof. It resists sudden shocks and strains. It takes paint easily
without the necessity of a priming.
Beaver Board can be obtained from Timber Merchants and Builders
Furnishers. See your local dealer!
THE BEAVER BOARD COMPANIES
Thorold. Ont., Canada London, England Buffalo, N. Y., U. S. A.
Mill* and Work* in Canada and U. S. A.
Australasian Representative, O. D. GORDON, G. P. 0.2408 Sydney, N. S. W
BEAVER.
BOARD
You can't expect
Beaver Board re*
suits unless this
trademark la pa
the back of the
board you buy.
FOR. BETTER. WALLS Ct CEILINGS
sw
5^
is
BEAVER
BOAR
D
HADE IN
VaVNVD
impart the same effect experienced
when you slip into a perfectly
tailored suit of clothes. You feel
better instantly.
A THISTLE SHIRT fits you all
over. Finished as expertly as it is
cut, with qualities of style and work-
manship which no other shirt possesses.
THISTLE SHIRTS are sold by all
leading Shirt Departments —so are
THISTLE PYJAMAS. Try them.
s Alexander Stewart & Sons Ltd.
Makers
Brisbane
and
Sydney
A S. 22
a:
I
§rfi
See. this brand
on each Shirk
GXflSjg
m
Fills lb.
Cannot
Clcans _ t
lL*guUi__
British
*«k for ONOTO r^^tUTC.
~®**t for all Peno
j
BEST VALUE
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Arthur R”: When the Australians cap-
tured a German wireless station in the
Pacific, tape records of the messages received
daily from Germany were found. These have
the Allies beaten. Even the United States
cannot explain how tape records of wireless
••an be taken over anything but a com-
paratively short distance. The signals re-
ceived from Germany by the Australian
stations were only audible on the most sen-
sitive telephone receivers, and were they
magnified a thousand times would not have
been powerful enough to operate the most
delicately adjusted tape-machine known to us.
“Dido”: My new friend Samuelson was
showing me his bric-il-brac and household
gods—a remarkable collection. Among many
other things was an array of precious stones,
one of these apparently a diamond, a very
fine rose-colored stone. On observing it more
narrowly 1 found it to be covered by a
magnifying lens that made it appear more
than twice its real size. Samuelson noticed
my curiosity. “Thath a peaudiful diamont,
my poy,” he said, “peaudiful. But s’elp me,
1 gave over 60 guineas for it, and I have
to look at it through a magnifying glass, or
it makes my heart pleed.”
* * * *
“Silas”: Turves, of Byrock (Vic.), had
a disagreement with Trench over the quan-
tity of timber charged for in lining a kitchen.
He refused to pay anything, demanding a
revised account or the delivery of so many
feet of pine. Trench lost his temper, and
sent the timber along made up into a coffin,
Purves’s size, with a polite note to the effect
that he hoped his friend would not be long
in putting it to use. A week later Trench
had to attend, in Purves’s kitchen to receive
payment of his account. He found his cus-
tomer very well satisfied. Standing behind
the kitchen-door on its end, and secured to
the wall, was the coffin. Purves opened the
hinged door and showed it full of ordinary
domestic wares. “Thanks fer the cupboard,
Trench,” he said; “but I had to put the
shelves in myself.”
* * * *
“Wessel”: While the Northern Territory
isn’t much of a forest country, it has a lot
of patches of very useful timber—cypress
pi _e, paper bark, bloodwood, kadjeebutt,
Leichhardt pine and the like. An English
firm of shipbuilders reckons that the kapok-
tree ought to be added to the list, and has
sent to Darwin for a sample. A log of
this timber 20ft. long, and about 18 inches in
diameter at the butt has been cut on Bath-
urst Island and sent for trial along with
a seasoned board or two. By the way, as
kapok grows in the Territory and also in
the Torres Strait islands, where the natives
use it for mattress-stuffing, why is it neces-
sary to import all that Australia wants
from Java and elsewhere?
* * -• * *
*‘G.” : The smoker among the casual moun-
tain people of New Guinea plucks a green
leaf from the tobacco bush and puts it on
the hot embers until it is dry and brittle.
He then shreds it and wraps the fragments
up in any green tree-leaf before popping it
into a bamboo. Then he lights up, draws till
his pipe is full of smoke and hands it round
the circle, each man puffing in turn. Only
when a feast is coming will they pluck the
green tobacco and hang it up inside to sea-
son. Tobacco is indigenous all through
inland New Guinea. On Itooke Island they
use a wooden gridiron for baking the leaf
over a slow, small fire. On the other hand,
few of the coast natives had met My Lady
Nicotine till the white man came.
* * * *
“O. Blin”: The only known occasion on
which the late Police Chief Steward visited
the Melbourne Eastern Market became
memorable through the pertness of a dog-
fancier. It was during a period when the
Sikes Safe-Bursting Syndicate was making
the police ridiculous, and no doubt the big
man was thinking about it as he gazed
mournfully at the cagefuls of yelp for sale.
Expecting a trade, the dealer turned out his
best brands of pups, but his finest oratory
was lost on the stranger who, on turning
away, caught the awed salute of a passing
bobby. The recognition confirmed the dealer’s
early suspicions of the visitor’s identity,
and regardless of arrest for lese-majestc ho
decided on a parting bomb. “ ’Ere, I say, Sir
'Enry,” lie said, sailing after the retreating
figure, “if I can’t sell yer a foxy or a Skye,
could I do yer a line in blood’ounds?”
“Gouger”: Cockies in the Coqktown dis-
trict (N.Q.) are doing well out of peanuts.
The soil is peculiarly suited to the vege-
table, and as the price now is a little over
£IOQ per ton, the cultivation and harvesting
not over-costly, and the demand for many
purposes very large, growers are beginning
to see a rosy time ahead. Most of the crops
up here average from three-quarters to a
ton per acre. The good rainfall and the
fact that plenty of shelter is available favor
the crop. It was wind, curiously enough,
that spoiled the chances of the biggest pea-
nut-growing enterprise in the South. This
was undertaken by Metters, the stove-man,
when he retired from the firm that still car-
ries his name. The land was a sandy area
alongside the Murray; but it was too loose,
and the strong winds of those parts didn’t
give the pluckv cultivator a chance But he’s
doing all right with vines.
RONDEAU OF WEDDING CLOTHES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Gent’s Frock Coat and Vest, silk facings, worn
once, suit tail man, abt. 6ft., chest 40in. ; also High
Hat, size 7. Barg., £5 lot. Wedding, P.O.’
Farewell, glad rags, farewell to thee,
Flash relics of felicity!
I wore you only once in life —
The day I wed; and now my wife
Says you must pay the rent for me!
The cost of living endlessly
Goes up and up—l must agree
To say, ’midst profiteering rife,
Farewell, glad rags 1
Xo sound of trumpet, drum or fife
Shall speed you off. To fork and knife,
And joints they carve incessantly,
A sacrifice, a barg., you'll be!
Farewell, glad rags l
'J.OXCSIIORE.
ALBATROSS.


/
REGD
fHE QUALIT
COTTON FABRIC FOB HOME-SEWN LINGERIE AND BABY-WEAR
fi
•m#
V
v
w
u
Mothers the whole world over
delight in Tarantulle. For their
children’s wear, as for their
own dainty lingerie, they know
that Tarantulle combines the
necessary purity and softness
with the absolute reliability
essential for home sewing.
Tarantulle maintains its standard of
quality. It is perfectly woven from
the finest cotton grown. Only when
you actually see how fresh, white,
and sound it comes from wash after
wash, can you appreciate the immense
value for money it offers to-day.
40 inches wide in three
weights — standard, fine,
and superfine. Name
always on selvedge
ONE OF THE
TOOTAL
GUARANTEED
%v faS>^
All genuine TARANTULLE Is name-
stamped on selvedge. Buy none without.
OTHER TOOTAL GUARANTEED FABRICS
Each carries name on Selvedge i
TOOT A L CLOTH ?—The Guaranteed Velvet Fabric, eoual to silk velvet for
graceful drawing Rich colors that will not rub off. In Plain and Cord. 27ins. wide
LISSLIE HANDKERCHIEFS (Regd.) for ladies. Dainty exquisite self-white and
indelible color border designs. Lissue label on each
PYRAMID HANDKERCHIEFS (Regd.) for men Correct self-white and
indelible color border designs. Pyramid label on each
NAMRIT —The indelible Voile. In printed designs and self colors 40 ins wide
TOOTAL PIQU/E White end indelible colors 43/44 ins. wide
TOOTAL SHOTTING for ell hard-wearing purposes. Woven indelible color
stripes 32 ans. wide.
TOBRALCO tßegd ) The Cotton Dress Fabric in world wide use. Self-
white and indelible colors. 27/28 ins
TOOTAL
TO BE HAD OF ALL STORES
BROADHURST LEE COMPANY. LIMITED. MANCHESTER. ENGLAND.
All communication* to : ,
MELBOURNE. G.P.0.. Box 1 0 35, . ,
»jc
The “Old Soldier.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rPHE trouble, with No. SO4r»G Gunner
Woozeditcli, J. A., was that he had
begun his professional career as a
private in the Durham Light Infantry. In
the intervals between polishing his buttons
and boots, and parading in Barrack Square,
he had amassed a remarkable collection of
martial lore, lie knew all sorts of unex-
pected things, from the exact pay, status
and privileges of a military schoolmaster
to the correct procedure in the case of one
of the Other Ranks on being struck by an
officer. He knew his King's Regs, back-
wards ; he could quote whole sections from
the Army Act; “an’ what I don’t know
of me rights," he used to say, "well, chum,
put it out of yer ’ead. It ain’t worth
keepin’ there.’’
Deserting, as fortunately for himself as
for the immortal little army which was
destined a couple of years later to hold up
the flower of Germany, he fled to Australia.
In 1915 he enlisted in the A.1.F.; and he
embarked in September of that year aboard
11.M.A.T. No. 2020 for Suez.
Lieut.-Colonel Wawp, V.D., the C. 0., had
confined his military effort exclusively to
the command of troops on transports. Ilis
dislike of the rank and file of the A.I.F. —
based chiefly on their familiarity towards
their betters, and on their disorderly
aspirations in the direction of more
food and washing accommodation —wa.s
immeasurable. Ilis only consolation in
those days was the conviction that
the War Office would never give his fellow-
countrymen the opportunity to disgrace
themselves in France. On this point he
and the Lancashire skipper of the 2020
were as one. The skipper further argued
that as the men were plainly never going
to fight, they ought at least to serve the
Empire by doing as much as possible of the
ship’s work. In fact, bearing this point in
mind, he had left with what was practically
a skeleton crew. The Colonel agreed. And
so, every day and at all hours, batches of
soldiers were paraded and marched off as
“steward’3 fatigues,” “boatswain’s fatigues,”
“painting fatigues,” and so forth, to the
great financial profit of the vessel’s owners.
Meanwhile Gunner Woozeditch watched
and waited. Ilis opportunity came at last.
“You’re detailed to report to the chief
engineer at 5 p.m.,” said his sub-section ser-
geant one morning. “Place o’ Driver Brown
gone sick.”
“What’s the job?” inquired Woozeditch.
“Shifting coal.”
“I’ll be there all right, sergeant.”
“Queer cove !” mused the .sergeant. “Looks
as if he was glad!"
That evening an amazing rumor spread
around the ship. Gunner Woozeditch had
refused to go into the engine-room.
Major Beevil found Woozeditch standing
to attention. It was one of his favorite atti-
tudes. He stood to attention more fault-
lessly and saluted more often than the
most tractable mau in the .ship. At his feet
Mas the rejected shovel.
“Pick up that shovel and go below at.
once,” said the Major.
"You can’t make me do it, sir,” said
Woozediteb;-;
“I order you. Do you hear me, my lad?
I order you.”
“It ain’t a lawful military order.”
”I)o you realise that this is a matter of
the death penallyf ” inquired the Major in
dramatic tones. "Disobedience on active
service!”
"We ain't on active service. Nor won't be
till we gets ‘in face of the enemy.’ See the
definition. It’s the law.”
The taking of the Summary afforded the
C. 0.. a pleasant two days, marred only by
the discovery, when the Nominal Rolls were
produced, that the mutineer was not an
Australian. He would have felt even
gloomier and more puzzled had the record
also shown Woozeditch’s eight years’ ser-
vice in England and India.
"And now, Gunner Woozeditch,” said the
C. at the conclusion of the proceedings,
“you have heard the evidence. Have you
anything to say?”
"Nothing, sir!”
“It is then my painful duty to warn you
that you have incurred the liability of the
death-sentence, and to commit you to stand
your trial before, a District Court-Martial
in Egypt on arrival there.”
“A District Court-Martial can’t give me
more than three years,” remarked Wooze-
ditch.
“70-turn ! Ouee-march !” roared the ser-
geant of the guard, and the Court rose.
After doing no work of any sort for some
months Woozeditch appeared before a
D. at Zeitoun. Defending himself, he
drew the Court’s attention to that paragraph
in the King’s Regs, which exempts troops
from working in the stokeholds of trans-
ports. lip was immediately released and
returned to his unit, to draw a vast sum in
back pay and to receive the admiring con-
gratulations of his friends.
* * * *
I heard of him next at Lark Hill. “There’s
a man in No. 0 hut.” complained the M. 0.,
“who refuses to be inoculated.”
“Refuses to be inoculated!” shouted the
Adjutant. “Come along with me, Doc., and
I’ll show you how to make him sing a dif-
ferent tune.”
Lounging in the slush outside No. 9 Hut
was a crowd of dejected Diggers. Inside
were Woozeditch and a couple of n.c.o.’s and
the medical orderlies.
“What the devil’s the meaning of this?”
blustered the Adjutant. “ Yon , there!
Woozeditch or Oozewieh or whatever your
cursed name is! What's the meaning of it,
I say?”
“I’ve got conshihenshus objections,” said
Woozeditch unctuously.
“Blast your objections! You got no right
to have ’em,” said the adjutant. “This is
the Army, my man. Get me? The Army.
Avhere we teach the likes of you the mean-
ing of discipline. Will you submit to inocu-
lation at- once?”
“No, sir!”
“Mind, it's an order.’’
■■l ye got consmhen” ——
“Once and for all, will you sub"
“I got eonshi”
“Sergeant! Place him under close arrest.”
The Adjutant turned to the M.O. "That’s
the way we on the combatant side deal with
’em,” he said. “He’ll get ten years for this.”
“I won’t,” interposed Woozeditch, whose
military manner invariably failed him in the
presence of amateurism. "I won’t get
nothing. You carn’t make me”
At the subsequent trial Woozeditch de-
fended himself ably, quoting Army Orders
by the dozen in support of Ins case; and
his air of confidence and rectitude caused the
presiding major fa newsagent in civil life)
considerable perturbation. But. the Adju-
taut had put in some good work beforehand.
“The man’s as guilty as he can he. Major,”
he had insisted. "I only hope you give
him a sentence that: will he a Warning.”
The prisoner was convicted.
“Anything further to say ?” he was asked
on being escorted back to the Court from
the verandah, where he and his guard had
been listening attentively to the strange legal
theories of his amateur judges.
“Yus,” he answered. “You've made a
bloomer. Thank God. me case ’as yet to go
before real soldiers. Lawyers, too! Me con-
viction ’ull be upset. An’ if I’m scut back
to the guard-room after this I’ll bring a civil
action for false imprisonment against the
l<3t of you. That’s Frvg -j; Oglo.' 5
They looked up the famous old'case after
his departure, and even the Adjutant agreed
that it might he as well to let him remain
under open arrest till such time as his well-
merited sentence of two years’ penal ser-
vitude should have been confirmed.
But, of course, it never was confirmed.
Woozeditch loafed about destroying the
morale of the Camp for a fortnight; and then
a curt intimation came down from some tie-
mendous departmental height or other that
he was to he released.
* * * *
At Kemniel in 1917 a friend remarked that
lie - had an interesting case before a Court-
Martial the next day. “The man,” he said,
“is up for being 30 days A.W.L.” I remarked
that his chances appeared poor; to which he
replied warmly: “That’s just where you’re
wrong. He’ll get oft'. lie’s the victim of
bad luck; or, rather, of official stupidity,
lie got separated from his draft on the way
up from Le Havre, and those dam’ fools of
lt.T.O.’s put him on the wrong track. He
was still wandering about looking for his
battery when he was arrested.”
I knew that R.T.O.’s were liable to err.
But 36 days! It seemed over the odds.
“What happened to your A.M’.L. man?”
I inquired some days later.
“He got off.”
A sudden thought struck me. “He’s not
a man with oily fair hair and a waxed
moustache?” I asked.
VYes.”
“By the name of Woozeditch ?”
“That’s the man. I’m glad you kn<3w
him, as only this morning I heard a rather
disquieting thing. My batman says he was
seen at the Battery waggon-lines by several
men of the unit a month before he was
arrested. That would mean —well, you see
what it would mean.” ....
"Of course. lie found the unit within
a week and then took a month on his own.
That would be Woozeditch all over.”^
One could see little of most of the men
aboard the big and crowded home-bound
transport. The influenza scare was'at its
height, and all ranks were exasperated by
being kept on board at each port. At the
end of two months the ship dropped anchor
just inside Port Phillip Heads, and the
troops were tol<} that they would have to
go into quarantine for a fortnight. Some-
thing snapped within the bosoms of the
ordinarily philosophical Diggers. They gave
full vent to their disappointment. And so
it was that I came to discover for the first
time that Woozeditch was in our midst. In
the gathering dusk he stood upon the monkey-
winch in the forward well-deck and haran-
gued the multitude.
“Are we dorgs," he asked, “that we should
be treated iu this way? We that 'ave gone
through the moil and toil of battle for years
and years, an’ shed our blood like water in
Freedom’s cause? No! Ten .thousand times,
no! I know me rights, comrades, and I
know your.s, and by ’Eaveu I’m going tc
'ave ’em. They kept us on board at Cape-
town ; they kept us on board at Fremantle.
Well, comrades, we’ll show ’em a point now.
We’ll stay on board at Melbourne. All
those in favor of refusing to go into quaran-
tine ’old up their right ’ands.”
A forest of powerful hands shot into the
air.
“Good!” said Woozeditch. "We will now
quietly disperse, taking care to do all things
in a lawful manner. Anyone wanting advice
kindly come to me.” And he clambered off
the winch and disappeared below.
By the next morning the position looked
serious. The men had consented to pack
their kitbags, but board the waiting tenders
they would not. Woozeditch moved busily
about supplying moral support. “1 can’t
pat you on shore,” said the C.O. resignedly.
“If you won’t get the blasted job over of
your own free will I suppose we’re here
for life.”
“Are we dorgs?" the voice of the insur-
gent was heard demanding with passion in
the background.
u Not dorgs, no!” drawled an immense one-
legged infantryman. “But fools, yes!
Oh. most certainly yes."
Suddenly a man swung his bag over his
shoulder.
“I’m fed up with this nonsense.” he
said ; “I’m going ashore.” There was an
agonised cry from Woozeditch. His remarks
were drowned in a mighty trampling of boots
as the men surged towards the gangways.
“Curs!” shouted the legal expert. “Truck-
lers !”
“You call me a cur.” said the nearest man
to him, dropping his bag. “an’ I’ll push yer
face in.”
Thereafter Woozeditch was silent. Abject
failure confronted him for the first time since
his enlistment in the A.I.F.
J. B. D.


FITTINGS
BUILD THE PERFECT BICYCLE
m
r
I
&
B.S.A. FITTINGS arc
Guaranteed Interchangeable.
Exact replacements of any part can
be obtained. Don't be put off with
"pattern fittings.'' but look for the
B.S.A. TRADE MARKS ON EVERY
PART. They are your guarantee.
Truest Economy.
It’s the truest economy to ride a genuine
B.S.A. Bicycle. Besides saving you
time and money and being a source of
pleasure you are certain of years of
cycling, free from trouble and at little
expense. You can compare a genuine
B.S.A. Bicycle by every possible test
with a so-called “cheap” bicycle, and
you will readily understand why a
B.S.A. is the cheapest machine in the
end. For easy, smooth running it is
unrivalled, while B.S.A. reliability and
long service are proved by the fact that
thousands of cyclists in all parts of
the world ride only B.S.A. Bicycles.
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.'
Send for B.S.A. Handbook
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings,
B.S.A. TRADE MARKS
These Trade Marks are your safeguard. See
that your bicycle carries the “Three Piled Rifles”
and the letters B.S.A. They are a guarantee of
highest quality, material, workmanship and finish
TRADE MARKS
MELBOURNE.
B.S.A. REPUTATION
During the Great War the B.S.A. reputation
has been more than justified by the remarkable
service which thousands of B.S.A. Bicycles gave
under the exhaustive conditions of modern warfare


Can’t Beat Coco an tit
Oil for Hair Wash.
Girls and women who wish to keep their
hair in nice condition should be most cautious
in the soap they wash it with. Most
soaps and ready-mixed shampoos contain
excessive quantities of alkali. This dries
the scalp, makes the hair brittle and is very
injurious. Just ordinary colinated cocoanut
oil (a pure, saponified but quite greaseless
liquid) is far better than the most costly
soap vou could possibly use for a shampoo,
for this cannot possibly hurt your hair.
Merely wet your hair with water and rub it 1
«n A couple of teaspoonfuls make a perfect
flood of rich, thick, creamy lather, and
cleanses both hair and scalp thoroughly. The
lather rinses out easily, and takes with it
every trace of dust, dirt, dandruff or excessive
oiliness. The hair dries quickly and evenly,
and comes out fine and silky, bright, glossy
and fluffy, appearing to be heavier than it is.
And best of all, this colinated cocoanut oil
leaves, the hair as easy to dress again as
though you hadn’t washed it at all. You can
get colinated cocoanut nil at most any chemist,
bill be sure it’s “colinated," which is not
expensive—a few ounces lasting a long, long
4 "important : Do not confuse colinated cocoanut
oil with cheaper sticky, emulsified cocoanut oils
or other There is only one genuine
colinated cocoanut oil, as recommended above.
How to Rid Your Feet of
Corns and Callouses.
Half-dozen Drops of Frozol-Ice Loosen Corns or Callouses
So They Lift Off.
fgjf
This is a wonderfully easy,
quick and pleasant way of
freeing your feet of corns
and callouses. Let drip a
little liquid Frozol-Ice right
on to the core of your painful
corn or callous. It evaporates
at once, then—presto! the
corn-pain vanishes.
The corn or Callous
starts to wither up
and soon it may be
peeled off with finger-
tips.
ƒĝj
fashionable, attractive footwear and foot
comfort also. With Frozol-Ice you enjoy
both. There's no pain nor soreness while
using Frozol-Ice, nor afterwards, since it
does not even irritate nor inflame sur-
rounding, healthy flesh.
Save a corner of your dressing-stand
for Frozol-Ice, and never let your corns
ache again. You’ll be delighted with it.
True Frozol-Ice is only obtainable in the
tiny bottle with glass-rod stopper. Every
bottle is enclosed in a green-labelled
cover, bearing the name.
Beware of imitations of the original.
All Leading Chemists, High-class
Stores, etc.
is for men and women wlio appreciate neat,
Drinking Water
With Meals Stops
Stomach Disorders.
•
Thousands of unfortunate people suffer
almost daily from dyspepsia, indigestion,
fermentation, sour acid stomach, flatulence,
gases or distress after eating. If they would
only form the agreeable habit of slowly drink-
ing with each meal a glassful of hot water
containing a teaspoonful of pure Salix Mag-
nesia, they would soon find their stomachs so
much strengthened and improved that they
might eat the richest and most satisfying
meals without the least symptom of indiges-
tion.
Salix Magnesia is highly effective in stomach
and intestinal disorders, and is very pleasant
to the taste, and in the form of fine powder or
compressed tablets—never liquid or milk—
and is not a laxative. Any first-class chemist
can supply you with this Salix Magnesia.
The White Man’s Burden.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JONES, the departing Resident Magis-
trate, busily engaged with the last of
his packing, turned towards the in-
coming official.
“I think I’ve put you wise to the division,
Curtis; but if there’s anything you’re doubt-
ful about just wade in and speak.”
I looked helplessly at the pile of papers
in the “Matters for Attention” basket, and
ran my eyes over the overflowing “Abeyance”
files.
“Thanks; I’ll get hold of the threads from
this little lot,” I said, waving my hand to-
wards the piles of paper on the desk before
me.
"Good business!” exclaimed my lucky
furlough-bound predecessor. “Sweet, isn’t
it? Another moon and I’ll be amongst the
theatres and taxis of Sydney and Did
I mention the perennials—the land disputes?
There’s an unending ruction between Ivear-
ojfea and Motusilo over a hunting tract —-grass
land —down Alawai Creek way. I’d better
prime you about it, for old man loane [JohnJ,
the boss Motusilo pot, ’ll be sure to blow
along and try to bluff you into marking out
a new and proper boundary—proper accord-
ing to the ideas of loane.”
He explained the affair at length, which
he said had been settled away back in the
early years of British New Guinea adminis-
tration by canny old Dr. Macgregor and his
surveyors.
“You can’t go wrong by making them stick
to the old marks—a big ilimo-tree marked
with a broad arrow over M on the bank of
the creek; from there the line runs through
the grass for about 10 miles due east to a
gea-tree marked with the arrow over K.”
“Have you seen the trees?”
“Yes; two big chaps that’ll stand as long
’as grass grows and water flows,’ ” said
Jones a.s he slammed the lid of his despatch
box.
: 'i * #.,**• *
,A cadaverous, pock-marked, crinkly-skinned
and smiling old heathen inserted himself
around the lintel of the office door and
coughed deferentially to tell me of his
presence.
“Well, what are you?” I asked in the
vernacular.
“Master, I am loane, the child of the
Gavamani [Government], and you are my
father’s eldest brother,” said the old rascal,
approaching the table.
I shoved the report I was writing on “The
Marriage and Divorce Customs of the Vani-
golo” into a drawer, and waited for the old
man to speak.
“Master, you know all things, and your
eyes are everywhere, because you are truly
wise in the ways of this country. All my
people have glad stomachs now because they
have you as their father. lam an old man
and have seen many things in my time, but
I am as a little babe before the wisdom that
is yours. Many magistrates have I seen
here in this house, but none so wise and
strong as you. It is only a small thing, a
very small thing, I come to you about. For
many long moons my people have wept and
cried in vain for justice, but now that you
are here we laugh and are content. You, we
know, will surely see that those liars and
thieves, those ill-begotten children of diseased
dogs, who dwell at Kearoga and garden and
hunt on the rich lands they have stolen from
us poor, miserable Motusilo people, give us
back our lands.” He squatted on the floor
and gazed benignantly at me—a smile of
broken, betel-stained fangs and cruel, ser-
pent-like eyes.
“How can that be? The Gavamani [Gov-
-ernment] treats all men alike: the lands of
the Kearoga are plainly marked, and they
only claim that which is rightly theirs.”
“True, my fathex% the Gavamani is good
and just to all men ; but those offal-eaters of
Kearoga have been untrue to the Gavamani,
and by lies—dreadful lies ! —and fraud they
threw sand in the eyes of Makarega [Mac-
gregor] and caused him to mark their
boundary a long way inside the land our
ancestors took from them in battle many
men’s lives before the white men first came
to Motusilo.”
“The marks that Makarega made are the
right marks, loane, and they must stand. I
will not do anything more unless it is neces-
sary to put new marks on the old places
where the ilimo and gea trees grow. My
talk is finished.”
loane smiled and backed respectfully from
my presence.
Two months later, tired and weary after
a muscle-aching patrol through the crags and
valleys of the Owen Stanley Range, I
reached the station.
The sergeant of police, a “black .Tew”
from the sago swamps of the Fly River,
clicked his heels and saluted smartly as I
toiled up the stairs to my bungalow, and
reported the local happenings since my de-
parture for the interior.
The wily loane was bent on forcing my
hand, for the two boundary marks, the ilimo
and gea trees, had been felled and burnt,
root, barrel and branch. To prevent further
bloodshed I must replace the marks —to the
satisfaction of both warring tribes!
A column of plumed and painted brown
men came over the ridge, the throb of drums
and raucous-sounding conch-shells warning
the listener that they were tit and eager for
whotcver strife the day might bring forth.
Down the steep side of the mountain
across the valley another drum beat its chal-
lenge of savage hate.
Kearoga and Motusilo had come to the
meeting.
“The marks were on this line, master,”
repeated loane for about the hundredth time.
“Makarega put them here because those off-
spring of diseased dogs the Kearoga lied
to” ——
“Fatherless animal, put your gun down and
I will tight you with my club,” shrieked the
offended chief of the Kearoga. “Y’ile liar
that you are, you stealer of a widow’s pig!”
he yelled.
“You are both wrong,” I .said; “I have
the words of Makarega here before me on
this paper, and here also is the shadow
[plan] of the proper boundary, but the
ilimo and gea trees we cannot find. I will
make new marks for you on the proper
places that the shadow tells me, and your
boundary-line will then be as it was before
the ilimo and gea trees were lost. Is that
.sufficient for you all? Are your stomachs
glad?”
An hour later the disputants came before
me and accepted the decision. The Kearoga
chief asked me to allow his people, who
claimed me ns their father, to present me
with a beautiful jade club; loane hoped I
would not be wild because his people wanted
to show their respect for my wisdom and
strength by a gift of native shell-money.
I expressed my deep appreciation of the
kindly feeling shown by the litigants, but
explained that I could not rob them of such
beautiful and valuable heirlooms, because
my father, King Edward Number Seven, had
ordered all the Gavamani [Government]
officials not to take his children’s wealth.
Of course, personally, I hated to refuse such
magnificent gifts, but my father had eyes
everywhere and his order could not be dis-
obeyed, and if he heard I had not heard his
voice, well!
“Do I not know the anger of the King?”
loane said. “I saw what he did to the two men
—ignorant Kearoga men—who killed their
old mother because she was too old to work
in their garden. It is the law of the Kearoga
to kill their old people when they are no
longer of use to their children ; but the King
when he heard of this killing was very
angry. His voice was loud, and the Gava-
mani listened well to him and quickly took
those two foolish Kearoga men and hanged
them from a tree. But you, being a
Gavamani, would not be hanged from a tree;
the King would ask you to come to his big
house, and when you entered his fence his
warriors would seize you and take you to
the Death Room. In this room many men
die every day when the King is wild. There
a rope would be tied around your neck, anc
while you were standing before the King his
young men would steal the floor beneath you
and you would die quickly! I know all this
because with my eyes I have seen the
shadows [photographs] of the King’s big
house in See-knee” [Sydney], he concluded
triumphantly.
loane had somewhere or other been
shown a picture of an Australian gaol and
the once-well-used gallows of the bad old
convict days, and the explanations of a pre-
varicating copra-trader had supplied 'the
garnishings of his knowledge.
* * * *
His Excellency Sir Richard Sumner leant
back in his chair and blew rings of blue
smoke from his after-dinner cigar.
I related the story of the burnt trees and
my decision regarding the boundary.
“Sensible verdict, Curtis! Glad you ex-
plained the affair to-night, because the old
rascal loane has asked for an interview
with me in the morning. He’s bound to trot
this land business forward.... I’ll be ready
for him.”
loane concluded his tale of the land steal
perpetrated by the Kearoga with the con-
nivance of the “small boy,” who was magis-
trate now that the people’s “friend and pro-
tector, Misi lonisi [Mr. Jones], was away
at his village.”
Said his Excellency: “You say the marks
made by Misi Katisi [Mr. Curtis] are
wrong, while the proper marks are those
Makarega put on the ilimo and gea trees?”
lone thought deeply before he replied.
What did this man Sumina [Sumner]
want him to say? It would never do to say
Katisi’s [Curtis’s] marks were the correct
ones. Well, after all, Katisi might be a
fool, and he, loane, could surely cheat
Sumina if he wanted to, for all men knew
Sumina had not yet lived more than six
moons in New Guinea. All white men were
easy to cheat when they first came to New
Guinea.
“Most great and mighty father, it is true
that the marks made by Makarega on the
ilimo and gea are the right and proper
marks between my people’s land and their
brothers of Kearoga,” replied the cunning
old rascal.
“Good! Misi Katisi’s marks are only to
be looked on as your and Kearoga’s boun-
dary until you find and sh%w me the ilimo
and gea trees that Makarega marked. That
should not be long, loane, should it?”
queried Sir Richard, with a twinkle in his
eyes. *
“No, master, not very long,” said loaue,
swallowing something and trying hard to
squeeze a smile. "Thank you, my father,”
he added, and tottered weakly away to join
his people.
WALILIA.
Layman versus Painter.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
U W HAVE never seen anything in Nature
like that,” said the lady to the great
Whistler at one of his exhibitions.
••My dear madam, don’t you wish you
hadV” was the cheerful reply of the master.
The lirst remark in this historic chestnut
is to be heard any day in any exhibition of
paintings to which the public is admitted.
Why does the average layman adopt this
attitude so consistentlyV
It appears that the layman must regard
the painter as a species of confidence-man,
a presumptuous person who, by subtle guile,
is attempting to foist prismatic frauds upon
a shrewd and discerning public. The indi-
vidual who would stand aghast at the pros-
pect of entering an operating theatre with
suggestions for the direction of the sur-
geon’s scalpel will gaily invade any studio
or exhibition of pictures and become amaz-
ingly technical in praise or condemnation of
the work of accomplished artists. Color,
form, composition—nothing is free from his
ruthless examination.
The layman whose experience and study
of the nude is often a glimpse of himself in
the bathroom-mirror before breakfast will
condemn the wonderful analysis of flesh lone
and color in a work by some master of this
branch of the painter’s art —a man who has
spent half a lifetime of highly-skilled scien-
tific effort and observation in the study of
the human body under all conditions of light
and contrast.
The same layman, when asked how many
hours or minutes he has spent in contem-
plative study of the nude, will probably
reply that he would not think of wasting his
time in that way. lie knows “flesh-color”
when he sees it —that’s all!
Seeing is, however, not so easy as the
layman imagines.
He feels that the painter of a sunset is
attempting to take credit for having seen
“a light that never shone on land or sea.” This
attitude is much evidenced by the remark
invariably made with a profound air of wis-
dom and originality, and which it is pretty
certain Noah made on viewing the first sun-
set after the grounding of the Ark : “If any-
one were to paint that no one would believe
it!”
Let us consider what opportunities the
average layman has during his lifetime of
equipping himself as an art-critic. As a
child his eye is accustomed in his toys to
color-schemes built on Union Jack lines. He
is surrounded by furniture and appointments
calculated to debase any latent capacity for
acquiring good taste in form or color. He
has pictures of the Christmas-eard variety
held up to him by fond relatives as “pretty.”
On the occasion of any festivities in home,
church or social gathering, he becomes influ-
enced by decorations inflicted by members of
the fair sex, who, because they are conversant
with the latest fashions in dress-stuffs, are
supposed to be veritable fountains of good
taste. He w-atches them juggling with crude
art-muslins or stripping the natural foliage
from inoffensive boughs preparatory to cloth-
ing them with paper blossoms. He sees them
busy with festoons of languid green stuff cal-
culated to disfigure as far as possible any
existing architectural beauty of the build-
ing. The walls between which he is born
and bred are adorned with family-treasure
pictures of reserved and dubious hue, murky
landscapes with bulgy peasants making love
in the foreground or strange figures with
dingy scarlet headgear driving umber cows
through a treacly gloaming. This coloring
he takes as being the correct style for pic-
tures of high grade, while the picture in the
drawing-room in which, by the aid of a good
magnifying-glass, the texture of the silk
stockings in the figure of “the gambler” may-
be seen, serves for his standard of technical
handling.
What appreciation of the subtleties can be
expected from the man who moves daily
amid the horrors of so many of the modern
homes where every object in the room is an
aggressive unit, where the whole arrange-
ment is the result of years of bargain-hunt-
ing. and each object is added without the
slightest regard to the general effect —mean-
ingless bands of silk, red-plush framed mir-
rors atliicted with puce flamingoes on scaf-
fold-pole legs; stuffed parrots perhaps,
whose protruding eyes could be lassoed with
a grape-vine?
The sentimental appeal will always be
strong in pictures to the layman just as
the melodrama or the emotional ballad is.
And the more realistically the appeal is set,
provided always that the artist does not in-
troduce colors that to his eye are unreal or
impossible, the stronger will be the appeal.
There is another type of layman who ex-
pects pictures to have some moral effect; in
fact, to be gilded pills for social purgative
purposes. He fondly imagines that the great
painters of religious subjects owed their suc-
cess to their deep religious convictions, and
that the painter of the dying orphan and
the unhappy widow is a philanthropist of
the deepest dye. To him the whole purpose
of art is represented by a glorified Sirs.
Grundy pointing out the path of virtue with
an umbrella of variegated hues.
However paradoxical it may seem, it is
nevertheless true that the more the layman
knows about objects the less he sees from
the painter’s point of view.
The child sees things in perspective—that
is, as they are represented on canvas or
paper by the artist, and it is only when it
is taught that things are distant and not
actually smaller in size that it loses its
sense of perspective, pictorially-speaking.
The training of the painter lies to some con-
siderable extent in retracing his steps to the
perceptive point of childhood.
Color can be divided into two distinct
relations—local and accidental. The local
color of any object is that which appears
when it is viewed at close range under nor-
mal daylight and without contrast to other
colors. Its accidental color is seen when it
is affected by the various-colored lights
thrown upon it, or by its relation to
contrasting or harmonising colors, or by
atmospheric veils drawn between it and the
observer.
The whole of the life-teaching of the aver-
age layman lies in searching for the local
or actual color of objects. For his practical
business of life it is necessary that his eye
and mind must not be deceived. The exact
character of each object must be determined
in spite of any superficial change wrought
from Nature’s palette. To him the sands of
the seashore are yellow, the pavement in
the streets is stone grey, bricks are brick-red.
Whether they be bathed in the golden light
of the sun, or whether, after rain, in the
cold light in the morning, they resemble
steel or silver, to him the local color alone
appears—brick-red; stone-grey; yellow sand.
This accounts for the dissatisfaction of tin 1
layman and his disbelief expressed when he
sees the accidental color of things laid upon
canvas by the artist. He again judges, the
painted surface by its local color and com-
pares it with the local color of the original
object as he knows it. His desire for the
exact appreciation of facts leads him to
desire the clearest day for contemplation of
distant scenes, so that he may be able to
catalogue the various items. His delight in
recognising from the mountain-top where
he is spending his holidays the spot on the
landscape which represents his native city
would be intensified if he could but recognise
the office in which he slaves—yea. even the
text of the letter on the typewriter.
There are undoubtedly in every community
thousands of men of general culture who
are prepared to learn and to understand the
artist’s ideals and craftsmanship. Speaking
broadly, there is more hope for the sincere
layman who falls under good influences than
for the man who moves on safe and crys-
tallised lines, in whose mouth is ever the
praise of the accepted masters, who will see
nothing good in any work unless it be sancti-
fied and buttressed with age and tradition,
who will fall into raptures over a bad
replica of the Venus de Milo, and who would
regard with cold suspicion any work of a
modern master, such as Rodin, unless he
had been previously assured of its reputa-
tion. These conservatives are a great bar
to an intelligent appreciation of current art.
They have their own temples of approved
idols, and they can never be accused of bad
taste. The only revenge the artist has is
when one of these oracles falls into rhap-
sodies before a bad copy—a very bad copy—
of a Titian or a Turner.
The artist, on the other hand, is much to
be blamed for the situation. He is too often
inclined to wrap himself uo in a cloud of
affected mysticism; to confuse the really
earnest searcher after knowledge with
strange cryptic jargon, accompanied with
much smearing of the air with a thumb and
half-closing of the eyes; to set up a barrier
of class distinction based oh the .suppositi-
tious, exclusive possession of a temperament.
The days of the velvet coat and the long
liair are. or should be. over, and the artist
must take his place socially with the workers
of. the world. He must emerge from his
prismatic fog-bank and endeavor to assist
his fellow-men to an understanding of the
•raft, its aims and ideals.
JACK SOMMERS.


Better light Means Better Work.
Efficiency and Economy Dictate
SWITGHON LAMPS
V
" a
1
240
30
m
7f
//t
vs
i/
Every component part of
these dependable lamps
is the work of a special-
ist. The result is evident
in their unique durability.
They are the ultimate
achievement in electric-
light bulbs.
In the factory, in the office, in
the store, the better the illu-
mination the more efficient the
staff.
Bright, cheerful lighting shows
its reflection in bright, cheer-
ful workers. For this reason
the use of Switchon Lamps
increases the output of well-
finished, accurate work.
The same in the home—the
clear, brilliant, perfectly-dif-
fused light of these master
lamps enables the finest needle-
work or the closest reading to
be done without undue eye-
strain.
Switchon Lamps are most
economical, because they
reduce replacements to a
minimum.
Try Switchon—the reliable
Lamps—to-day!
Quotations on request.
WG WATS ON&C°L TD
279 Clarence SI Sydney-
ADD YEARS TO
YOUR LIFE.
BPTTERLAC
is a SPECIALLY-PREPARED POWDERED FORM of
BUTTERMILK, containing the LACTIC BACILLUS which
PROFESSOR METCHNIKOFF (Pasteur Institute of Paris)
Discovered to be the
MOST RELIABLE REMEDY
for the
Treatment of ail Troubles arising from GASTRIC and
INTESTINAL DISORDERS.
EUTTERLAC IS INVALUABLE FOR NERVE TROUBLES,
INDIGESTION,
INSOMNIA,
HEADACHES,
RHEUMATISM,
KIDNEY and LIVER
DERANGEMENTS
and All Stomach Ailments.
BUTTERLAC IS FREE
FROM ANY DRUG.
BUTTERLAC can be taken by Adults, Children and Infants.
Butterlac is Sold in Tins, 2/6 and 4 6
ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Wholesale Distributors:
Victoria: DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
New South Wales: H. L. BUSSELL & CO., LTD., Meagher Street, Sydney.
Queensland: TAYLOR & COLLEDGE, LTD., Brisbane.
South Australia and Western Australia: ALFRED HARVEY & CO.,
Adelaide.
Built-in
Oscillating'
Mag'neto
Throttling'
Governor
Removable
Cylinder
Head
Stocks carried by—
Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd.,
9-13 Young Street, SYDNEY.
Winehcombe, Carson, Ltd.,
99 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
The Cng'ine with the
biggest pull in the
farm world.
ALL “Z” ENGINES
BSE KEROSENE-
3, 6, 10, 15 B.H.P.
APART from its mechanical superiority, the fact that
the Type Z Engine uses kerosene fuel instead of
petrol should be of great interest to you. Hundreds of
engines which should be going “full belt” now are lying
idle because petrol is unobtainable in certain districts.
The famous “Z” is a real kerosene engine built for that
fuel, and thrives on it. It gives good, steady power every
day of the year without periodical stops for cleaning up
valves and plugs.
It will pay you to get a “Z” in action right away. It’s
“a wonder at the price.” Write for booklet and par-
ticulars to nearest of the agents shown.
Pump Fuel
Feed
Speed
Regulator
Water
Jacßeted
Valves
Stocks carried by—
J. Bartram & Son,
MELBOURNE.
Malloch Brothers,
PERTH.
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd
HOBART.


UU// "Unanimous
ABBOTS LAGER.
THE DRINK OF GOOD FELLOWSHIP
> 73r<?Up(/ from
n Pure?fd/ftHop? On/y
JN
a
"HD
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND fico BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA —Collins House. Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, Sydney - - - Phone City 2677
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane Phone 2382
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Kissing Time”
Criterion “Three Wise Fools”
£ alace “Mother Hubbard”
Y s * ; Moving Pictures
l mon Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Bing Boys on Broadway”
B° ya , l “Yes, Uncle”
King s ‘‘The Little Damozel’ J
}„ IVOL * “The Man from Toronto”
The Playhouse The Smart Set Diggers
Hoyt s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
GijAciarium Dancing
Palais de Dance (St. Hilda) Dancing
Town Hall (lltli, 14th, 16th) Moiseiwitsch
Town Hall (10th, 12th, 15th), Evans-Gange Concerts
The London Comedy Co. at Adelaide
deserted the simple sentiment of “Tim Man
from Toronto” for what London calls a
Ilawtrey play, the kind of thing the best-
fed chuckle over in the two hours between
CARTER THE GREAT AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Curler imitates Chung Ling Soo.
a heavy dinner and a hot supper. For their
amusement, Somerset Maugham, in “Home
and Beauty,” has stood the Enoch Arden
idea on its head. Major Bill, reported dead
in France, comes home from a German
prison to find that his wife has married his
best friend. Major Frederick, and has a son
by each of them. Clearly, an uncomfort-
able idea if treated seriously; so it is turned
into a cynical farce. She is made a selfish
and exacting charmer, and both are quite
fed up. When they agree to draw* lots for
her there is some brisk swindling in the
endeavor not to win her. Also she is
anxious to marry a third, an official who can
secure her against scarcity of butter and
coal. The Eternal Triangle here has four
sides.
By Act 3 the original idea has worn thin.
So in comes the family lawyer, -with kindly
instructions how to prove technical cruelty
—every act and every curse prescribed. And
he has at call a highly respectable spinster
who makes an honest living by being found
in compromising situations, and joined as
co-re. Joseph Graham gave another of his
careful studies as the lawyer, and Frank
Harvey (the only familiar face) played the
third husband. The main work fell on three
people. George Tully is large, easy, jovial,
more like Willoughby than a Londoner. Fred
Moyes as the slow-and-steady No. 2 played
up to him well; the quarrel between the
two about the cooking of a steak is a thing
to be remembered. x\nd Margaret Swallow
gave an artistic rendering of the Society
bride, alternately butterfly and cat. But
after a week of this liighly-spiced fare Adel-
aide demanded a return to that simple idyll,
“The Man from Toronto.”
* # * #
“Billjim,” the third production of the
London Comedy Co., is its most important
so far; and this was its first appearance on
any stage. It is by an Anglo-Canadian,
Sara J. Duncan. The idea is the double
one so dear to English magazines during the
war: the Digger’s desirability to the Eng-
lish girl as husband, and his “impossibility”
to her family. Lady Lawton has lost her
son Larry in France ; and her daughter Ruby
brings home a Lonely Soldier, lie is a
Queenslander, and proud of it. “It is not
an unhealthy climate,” he protests, “what-
ever the Croweaters or the Beautiful-
Harborers may tell you.” Also he sings the
praises of his banana-farm, and the paw-paw
makes its first stage-appearance as a humor-
ous vegetable. His devotion to Ruby is
obvious, and she is instructed to choke him
off, which she dutifully but doubtfully man-
ages, with fibs about an engagement to an-
other. At this point the play suddenly takes
a serious turn. The infant of an unmarried
mother under Lady Lawton’s care turns out
to be Larry’s child ; and on that the previously
gentle grandmother turns vixen, and would
throw the girl into the street. Billjim, feel-
ing his own life in ruins at the moment,
steps in and offers her his name and hand.
It seems to this British family a quite
natural and even providential arrangement;
but it wakes Ruby up, and she puts up a
hard but unavailing fight for her man. The
audience, however, having noticed Larry’s
name in the programmed list of characters,
comfortably awaits his appearance at the
finish. It does not come till the pair are
lined up for a drawing-room wedding—which
promptly becomes a double one. Technically,
the play has faults. Coincidence is over-
strained, and the devices for getting char-
acters off the stage are often artless. But
it is full of human interest, especially to
Australians, if they can once accept the
central idea that a Queensland bombardier
might be unwelcome as a British son-in-law.
* * * *
The acting is good, except for (on the first
night) a queer amateurish restlessness in
some quarters. The lead just fits big George
Tully, whose slight accent, a kind of Lan-
cashire-Irish, is the same in all parts. He
is another Sentimental Bloke, only gentler
and better educated. Margaret Swallow
does easily the unusually little she has to do
as heroine, Leslie Graham is merely f.a.q. as
the delayed wife, and Leslie Lester a sound
comedian on Connie Ediss lines. Marie
Rignold gets most of the work. She looks
charming, and not more than 45; as there
is no reason why Lady Lawton should be
more than that, Tully must promptly cut out
a couple of references to her venerable ap-
pearance. Robert Courtneidge, manager of
the co., comes back to the stage with an
artistic sketch of a Scotch minister; and
that fine actor Frederick Moyes is nearly
wasted as a butler. Yet his re-arranging of
furniture, alone and in dead silence —except
that he hums “Onward Christian Soldiers,”
the while —is one of those rare bits of stage
business that hold the house and stick in the
memory.
* * * *
Tilly, from Bloomsbury, is having a
popular reception at Adelaide Royal. She is
“Billjim” reversed, and has equal success in
winning over a haughty mother-in-law. Miss
Temple and Mrs. Brough had a rapturous
re-welcome. In the palmy Brough-and-
Boucicault days, Adelaide claimed to be
their warmest supportei*. At the Majestic,
Wish Wynne is a host in herself, but has
good all-round support. At the King’s
“Mademoiselle Mimi” is brilliantly imperson-
ated by Lindsay Kemble, with a crowd of
jolly musical Diggers. In the Town Hall
Leon is hypnotising. On the screen West’s
has Alice Joyce and Julia Dean and the
I’av. Viola Dana. At Wondergraph a new
and possibly important step is taken, the
perfectly-good picture programme being
supplemented by Keith Kennedy and a
short musical and vocal programme.
Just in from the Queen’s Hall, London,
Hubert Eisdell, whose clear lyric tenor w r as
raised for the first time in Sydney at the
orchestral concert on Saturday night, when
all the quality, in addition to his gramo-
phone-record admirers and lovers of the
orchestra, came to the Town Hall. The
Verbrugghen Orchestra seemed somewhat too
heavy a background for the clover-sweetness
of Eisdell’s voice, so that his opening num-
ber, “Onaway, Awake, Beloved,” was rather
disappointing; but when Mrs. Hubert, who
was Kitty Parker, of Tasmania, came for-
ward in mole satin, with little bits of the
soft animal’s skin outlining the sides in
panels, and played his accompaniment for
the encore (Tosti’s “Parted”), the audience
sat back and breathed in the sweetness. But
the singer’s great ovation came for “O Moon
of My Delight,” the greatest male-vamp,
song ever written. As Eisdell sings it, it
is positively dangerous on any night with
a temperature above 42°.
“THE SMART SET DIGGERS ,” AT
MELBOURNE PLAYHOUSE.
Fred Whitlow and Richard Butler in the
Coster Number.
“Kissing Time” has got Sydney by the
ear, and Her Majesty’s box plan is a mass
of blue crosses. Owing to the postpone-
ment of the Prince’s visit, the gala perform-
ance has been put back from Friday, June
18, to Tuesday, June 22.
$ * ff
The sorcerer Carter reports an unprece-
dented week at Sydney Criterion, the traffic
done in Royal Love Potions alone having
sufficed to discharge the lion’s meat-account;
while there have been extensive and profit-
able transactions in Magic Herbs designed to
make glad the Princely eye. The wizard is,
however, leaving the city before the efficacy
of his charm is put to the test; and on
Saturday next J. D. O’Hara will resume in
“Three Wise Fools.”
“Mother Hubbard” is getting ready to put
up the panto laundry’s shutters at Sydney
Palace. “Tiger Rose,” with Marie Ilka
leading, is due on Saturday, June 19.
“Bran Pie” and Lee White at the Tivoli
still beg for Sydney’s kind attention. The
advertisements speak very well of the show.
In “Male and Female” at Sydney
Globe and Haymarket Henley and J. M.
Barrie are plundered to make a fascinating
whole. Australia and Maoriland remember
the magnificent Cuyler Hastings as the
Crichton of J.M.’s play, and Thomas
Meighan as the picture-hero has all the
force but misses something of the quiet dig-
nity that made Cuyler the rage with all
the girls. Henley’s “When I was a King
in Babylon” introduces some alluring parti-
coverings, and stretches to the requisite
length. Frances Hodgson Burnett’s “Shuttle”
weaves melodrama and a moan against the
11.C.L.; but Constance Talmadge introduces
the dollar and the happy solution of the
finance problem at the Crystal Palace. At
the Lyceum “All of a Sudden, Norma,” fea-
tures a Smart Set story with Bessie Bar-
riscale doing a sleep-walking act. At the
Town Hall Ross Smith flies his good
Vickers-Vimy from England to Australia.
He does it in the quiet, workmanlike man-
ner you’d expect of an Aussie with a touch
of canny Scotland in brain and blood.
Harry K. Eustace started showing his
cinematograph pictures of African jungle life
at Sydney" Playhouse on Saturday. Dutiful
parents will now take their young by the
hand and lead them to see how the lion licks
his chops after dining heavily on raw
hyena.
“The Little Damozel” at Melbourne King’s
continues to have things all her own way.
The gentleman who injudiciously wrote a
bundle of letters to Emelie Polini is still
dowering her with £15,000 behind her back,
and the band at the restaurant persists in
its artless devotion to the festive young
woman.
Nothing has happened to “Bing Boys” at
Melbourne Majesty's since this paper last
referred to it except that the Prince has
witnessed the performance and smelled the
new rubber floor covering to the d.c. The
rubber will be a boon, and a blessing; but
for the present there is a subtle something
in the atmosphere which suggests that the
chorus has been trying to rub dull spots
off the entertainment with benzine. For-
tunately there were not so many dull spots,
and only one very solemn moment. That
was (and is) when Ilemma and Phil Smith
drop into a sentimental duet concerning
their time-honored mutual affection. Then
it is that the lady tries to keep her coun-
tenance whilst Philip is reaching anxiously
for his weird top note.
The nights of “Going Up” are numbered
to Friday at Melbourne Royal, after which
Frith, the aviator, will cease to wear a wor-
ried look around the generous slot where he
posts his daily bread. “Yes, Uncle,” which
is also a musical comedy, occurs for the
lirst Melbourne time on Saturday.
The idea of producing the Courtneidge
Comedy Co. at Melbourne Princess’s was
abandoned after being much announced;
nevertheless the revival of “On Our Selec-
tion” is concluding on Friday. “The Man
from Toronto,” wherein Courtneidge opens
his campaign, is to be staged at the Tivoli;
therefore “His Little Widows” has been sud-
denly rushed into last nights. The Torontan
gets busy on Saturday.
s;: * *
Melbourne Town Hall always becomes a
place of fashionable resort as soon as the cold
and draughty season of the year sets in.
Dolores sang farewell last week to the building
where a sliding rent does duty for a sliding
roof; the orchestra from the Renown gave
some pleasing concerts there; Amy Evans, a
Welsh soprano, together with Fraser
Gange, a basso from Scotland, will sing to
it on June 10 and later; Moiseiwitscn is
booked for Friday and subsequent dates.
Pretty Olive Thomas is having an ex-
hausting tour of the emotions in the Selz-
nick feature, “Out Yonder,” at Melba
Theatre, Melbourne, this week. Olive appears
as a lighthouse heroine and has some de-
pressing passages with an unwanted lover
before she is linked up with a typical maga-
zine hero. Dashing Constance Talmadge is
giving her lecture on philandering husbands
with great verve and charm in “Sauce for
the Goose” at the Britannia. The Hoyt
people are screening Harry Carey as the
impromptu guardian of a desert rescue in
the Universal feature, “Marked Men.” Peggy
Hyland appears at both Hoyt theatres as
“A Girl in Bohemia” who watches the un-
derworld of Ink and Paint making a pre-
tence of a gaudy existence. Associated with
Peggy is Madlaine Traverse breaching the
Decalogue in “The Snares of Paris.”
The festive frocking of Charles Holt, of
the Smart Set Diggers, is drawing a crowd
of rag experts to Melbourne Playhouse.
Charles’s dresses all come from Paris and
are by the celebrated designers, Pneumonia
et Cie. One special black creation is a
treat for the girls. Ascending languidly from
the shins, the main garment skirmishes
around the waist-line without going any
further*. A couple of scraps of lace on the
chest complete a toilet which is notable
for its perfect ventilation.
A Max Meldrum show: —
He and his pupils maintain their enthusiasm for
sane palettes and honest drawing in their second
annual show at the Melbourne Athenaeum. Meldrum
fills the biggest frame with a study of a young
lady: it is arresting for its freedom from the
graces of the conventionally-postured model. A
head of an old lady with pince-nez (No. 11) is a
forceful exposition of the Meldrum view of painting.
Everything in his panel of 14 pictures is expressive
of his valiant personality. Even his two or three
slight sketches in wash are tabloid lectures on the
factors of tone and proportion. The couple of head
studies by W. Frater and W. Rowell have an air of
unassuming sincerity, but A. Cornehls’s impression
of a Chinese female has a nightmarish look about
the left eye. The other exhibitors confine them-
selves to simple landscapes and still life, indulging
their humble fancy in the matter of subjects to the
point of painting a single tree or half a melon.
,H. V. Rooney depicts a white rose in a glass,
A. D. Colquhoun is content with a plate of eggs
and Miss Walker has no more than a few feet of
a gum trunk; but after inspecting these seemingly
trivial canvases, one hurriedly swallows the scoff
that was rising in the throat. • A. E. Newbury,
Colin Colahan, F. Finlay and some others are more
ambitious in their range of theme, but they all
have an attitude to Art and Nature that is sus-
tained by a derision for academical potboiling. And
after the futilities of some of our “well-taught”
painters, the work of the Meldrum party is very
soothing.
AT THE BALL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It happened at the Prince’s hall,
Where came elite and fashion.
The tickets were three guineas—all
A guinea for the ration.
And there was beauty, there was youth,
And music, sense to ravage;
And riches, too. In bitter truth
They pulled and tore
The things we wore,
And acted with no more of ruth
Than any other savage.
And when at length our Edward came,
It was a thing of wonder
To see the stout, impressive dame
Bear all things down and under;
To see the ladies on the chairs,
Their plenteous figures risking;
To see the clawing, hear the swears
Ol splendid gents
With painful dents
In chins and shins, and colored hairs
About their shoulders frisking.
And, oh, it was with sad surprise
The simpler people noted
How closely with protruding eyes
The upper circles gloated!
They followed him as though he were
Some trick-performing creature.
The ladies with their shoulders bare,
Torn in the scrim,
All pressed on him,
And others with dismantled hair,
A scratch on every feature.
If he but moved they flocked about,
In curious employment;
No manners in this ribald rout,
No vestige of enjoyment!
Out in the streets we can excuse
The vulgar herd that rages;
But there he’s safer than with shrews
And swells who ache
With zeal to make
A lion of him, and refus#
The. sanctuary of cages.
VICTORIA.
E. D.


s
*f' r *qrr *£■' »fIT. "fJT J*'r_ *g~ r ag_r_ 1 ”
afrrscrrw
■e
o
£
g
w
\
W
A
K
&
k
&
%
a
A
a
#
7
»
?: '
to
%
Sr
i
u
/
AN
u>
8
ft
N
A
A
A
«
M
0
The Spirit of the Empire


Exclusive
Stewart Dawson’s
Outrivalling in Variety and Splendor the
Richest Displays of the World’s great
Commercial Centres.
Stewart Dawson’s rare Diamonds are set
in Pure Platinum, and are without doubt
the last word in Quality and Value.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS.
Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
PERTH (Aust.).
REGENT STREET (LONDON).
STEWART DAWSON’S
Largest Jewellers of the Empire.
D992s—New Design
Single-Stone
Diamond Circle
Brooch. Platinum
and 1 -’-ct. Gold,
£7/10/-
KB2 4—Beautiful
Diamond Set Circle
Brooch, £25.
KlB2—Elegant Design Fine White Diamonds,
set in Platinum and 15ct. Gold, £2l.
KlBo—Choice Design Platinum Faced Dia-
mond Set Brooch, £B/10/-
KlB3—Artistic Design Fine White Diamonds,
set in Platinum and 15ct. Gold, £2O.
KBlo—-Fine Quality
Diamond Set Circle
Brooch, Platinum
and 15ct. Gold,
£3O.
K997—Dainty De-
sign Diamond Set
Circle Brooch,
Platinum and
15ct. Gold,
£B/10/-
Mounting's
Rare Diamonds.
Call at any of the Stewart Dawson
Establishments ..and inspect their beauti-
ful assortment of Diamond Ring Designs,
which is continually being added to.
Remember high-grade stones are a per-
manent investment.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS.
Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRIST-
CHURCH, DUNEDIN (N.Z.),
HATTON GARDEN (LONDON).
STEWART DAWSON’S
Write for Latest Catalogue.
POVERTY
POINT
MOËT &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“E.T.”: Robert Courtneidge, who .lias
opened his Australian tour with “The Man
from Toronto,” has, like the shrewd manager
he is, brought another English success or
two in case a change of bill is needed. One'
of them is Somerset Maugham’s latest
comedy, “Home and Beauty,” which recently
finished a long run at the London Playhouse,
with the incomparable Charles Hawtrey and
the beauteous Gladys Cooper in the leads.
Remembering Maugham’s “Lady Frederick”
and “Penelope,” playgoers should rush his
newest.
“The Deacon”: “T. D. Emdee” (B.
27/5/’2O) is quite
wrong in claiming
a Sydney parent-
age for Allen
Doone. The Ameri-
can actor’s real
name is Eddie
Allen, and before
taking on the job
of bringing “good
news to the Aus-
tralian Irish” he
was a bike-pusher
in America and
claimed to be
champion of Idaho.
Years back he was
in Melbourne and
tried to interest
John Wren, but
failed. Three years
later George Mar-
low made a disas-
trous agreement
for the then new
Adelphi, but gladly
parted with him
after the freeze.
By hurrying after
the clergy, Doone
got a certain
amount of fresh
backing and
acquired in Aus-
tralasia the for-
tune he dissipated
later in attempting
to capture Broad-
way with “my
pretty shamrock
plays.” His mother
“Kissing Time," at
Sydney Majesty’s.
Arthur Stigant as
Colonel Bollinger.
(Mrs. White) was here a few years ago,
and assured me she had just “blown in right
hot from Spokane, U.S.A.”
“Peg-I.eg”: Give “Jeune Premier” seven
encores for his defence of the wandering
mummer (B. 27/5/’2O). I’ve never yet
met a country pub-keeper who didn’t know
twice as much about rooking an actor as
the combined profesh did about scaling him.
Bung frequently owns the only available
hall, and makes it a condition of lease that
the entire co. shall abide with him —at rates
often as high as 75 p.c. above the usual
tariff. I once played three Northern towns
in one week on this arrangement. But I
bucked at the fourth; and then strange
things happened. The electric light failed ;
several rows 'of seats collapsed, and Bung
exhorted the victims to cash their bruises
at our box-office. He had, by the way,
previously collected Ins own hall-rent, board-
bill, cartage-charges and a few doubtful
extras.
“0.K.”: The new generation of Austra-
lian girl-singer needs to be told that excess-
ive facial expression is bad for any song.
The stars of long ago —Lalla Miranda, Ada
Crossley, Alice Hollander, Melba, Frances
Saville, Marie Elster—rarely if ever
“pulled a mouth” when they were warbling.
The modern songstresses have a tendency
to make it a grimace. Gladys Moncrieff is
rather an offender in this way. She requires
a course of singing to a mirror, and then she
might learn to produce her sweet voice in
the apparently effortless manner of Maud
Fane. Now we have Thelma Carter sing-
ing “Bubbles” in “Bing Boys” with far too
much play of countenance. After Thelma
has overloaded the lines with facial expres-
sion. a kiddie perched on Carle ton Stuart’s
GOOD BUSINESS.
CHORUS LADY: “Why don’t you give us a
turn —you always draw the principal!”
THEATRICAL ARTIST: “Well, I find I get
more interest that way."
shoulder repeats the refrain without making
a to-do of it. The kiddie, in fact, earns
the encore. (And truth compels one to
admit that the nipper might make horrible
faces and get there just the same; for audi-
ences are simply “tickled to death” by in-
fant precocity.)
“Norbell”: Eloise Juno, still pretty well
at 80, used to specialise in parts with a
Harry Lauder accent. One of her last pub-
lic appearances was during the Tyrone
Power-Edith Crane season at Melbourne
Princess’s in 1901. On the opening night of
“The Only Way” a queer thing happened.
Eloise, as one of the bloodthirsty viragoes
in the noisy tribunal scene, was confused
by the uproar, anticipated her cue, and thus
inadvertently cut the late Augustus Glover
out of his entire part. He was the public
prosecutor, and his bit comprised only one
lurid speech. When the curtain fell Gus
had another lurid speech to make to the
stage-manager. I’m glad to remember that
that long-suffering functionally took all the
blame in order to shield Eloise from Glover’s
fervid eloquence. P.S.—I was the S.M.
“Old Pot”: So Basil Gill has ambitions
to play Hamlet (B. 3/6/’2O). They all
have. Before, leaving Australia Julius
Supremus said that he would certainly do
Hamlet, but he has not, so far as I know,
kept his word. No sound actor can utterly
fail as the Prince. The character offers
so many chances that one simply can’t
miss them all. Perhaps the worst Australia
has seen was George Titheradge; and I still
think that Alfred' Hampier was the best.
“Haragigi” : Port Moresby’s police-station
received the shock of its life the other night
when a wildly-excited native constable dashed
into the office bearing tidings of murder,
riot and sudden death. Reduced to coherency
his tale was this: —
Taubada, big fella trouble he come! One fella
bo.v bin kill’m white man —name b’long him Koko-
Lobina. Altogether white man he wild too much
’long this boy. He sing out, “Where we find this
fella boy? Byunibye we kill him one time!” Tau-
bada, more better you come! Altogether boy he too
fright.
Then it turned out that some revellers had
been overheard singing “Who Killed Cock
Robin?” and had done it too realistically.
“S.T.S.”: Has anyone commented on the
points of resemblance between "Tiger Rose”
and “On Our Selection”? In each there is
a cranky person reputed harmless, and in
each a man who is going about looking for
the blood of his dead wife’s betrayer. In
the Australian play the two are one and the
same, and this certainly seems better crafts-
manship. In fact, one of the weakest points
about "Tiger Rose” is the wasteful non-use
of as many as three first-act characters of
much promise—the fiddling Pierre, the
American visitor and the cranky haunter
of the cellar.
“J.F.H.”: Some remarkably interesting
play-bills, “the oldest in the world,” are re-
produced in “The Stage Year Book.” This
is a department that has been strangely
neglected in Australia. Play-bills are the
raw material of theatrical history, and
future historians will curse the carelessness
of Sydney and Melbourne in not having pre-
served them and made them available for
reference. Is there a single representative
collection of Australian play-bills in exist-
ence? Barry Sullivan, who ran the Mel-
bourne Royal for three years in the ’sixties,
left a collection behind him: it is now in
the British Museum, which contains the
most comprehensive play-bill department in
the world. Sydney and Melbourne public
libraries should follow suit, and hunt up all
the 'early programmes that can be traced
before it is too late. There must be many
still in the possession of old theatrical fami-
lies—the Coppins, the Stewarts, the Gre-
villes and the like.
Jennie Hartley, who plays Emma in “The
Bing Boys on Broadway,” protests that she
is not “an American actress.” In a com-
munique from Melbourne Majesty’s the lead-
ing lady says: “I am a Londoner, nnd have
never yet been to America.”
“Fax”: Mention of Hugh Buckler's suc-
cess in a musical piece reminds me of his
early days in Australia, when he was acting
for George Willoughby in “The Night of the
Party.” “I don’t know why Buckler troubles
to act,” said Willoughby; “he ought to be
doing well on the concert platform —fine
appearance and lovely baritone voice.” He
certainly had a lovely speaking voice, and
could bring tears into anybody’s eyes (especi-
ally his own) with a sentimental recitation.
“0.K.”: Talking (B. 27/5/’2O) of Hart-
ley Manners and his acting in Australia with
Charles Cartwright, “0.P.” says that “Cart-
wright did not long have the support of’ his
daughter, who was rather badly injured while
riding in the Centennial Park.” True that
Edith Morley, while out riding with Noni
Rickards, got thrown from her horse and
was out of the bill some nights; but, then,
she never had been much in the bill. The
young girl had no part in “The Squire of
Dames” or “Moths,” which were Cart-
•wright’s first productions. Ilis third bill
was .“A . Marriage of Convenience,” more
recently played in Australia by Lewis Wal-
ler ; and in this Miss Edith Morley took the
heroine. Her accident followed closely on
her first appearance, but she was about again
a fortnight later, able to take a small part
in Carton’s “Tree of Knowledge,” which con-
cluded Cartwright’s memorable, unremunera-
tive season. R. C. Carton, by the way,
might be bracketed with Hartley Man-
ners and Pinero for finding more money in
writing plays tliah in acting them. I remem-
ber Carton as a very young-man mummer in
the Bateman co. that had Henry Irving
for star and Pinero for one of its minor
lights.
“Harrison O.”: When “Stargazer” (B.
27/5/’2O) states that “quite a lot of excel-
lent players of the ordinary stage make very
poor actors when facing the camera, and
many of the best of the picture pros, have
been quite indifferent stage-players,” it seems
to me that lie is merely adding force to my
contention that “posing for the screen is
not acting, but only an actor can do it suc-
cessfully.” “Stargazer” mentions that
“Mary Pickford was on the stage from
childhood, yet made no impression there”;
so the legitimate inference is that as an
actress she does not amount to much. Her
film success seems to have been won chiefly
by a pretty face and a repertoire of grimaces
eminently adapted for photographic repro-
duction. These meagre qualifications have
enabled her to become a millionairess in her
own trade, whereas on the stage they might
take her no further than the front row of
a musical-comedy chorus. If a film per-
former happens to have been born a “type.”
he or she has only to learn, a few trade
tricks to become a “star.” Were it not
that Mary Pickford has beauty of a kind,
her alleged art would count for little more
than that of a talented show-lady. That
a number of first-class actresses have failed'
on the films has often been due to the fact
that their stage successes were achieved by
mere brains. Margaret Anglin, Ethel Irv-
ing, Marie Tempest and Katherine Grey
achieved footlights eminence without the
aid of any physical attractions worth men-
tioning, but I don’t know any Plain Jane
who has made a big reputation on the screen,
no matter how much “art” she may have
had.
“Futsac”: State Minister Dunn’s wail
about the money
“Kissing Time," at
Sydney Majesty ’.s’.
Theodore Leonard as
Bi-Hi St. rot.
which is being
spent on new Syd-
ney theatres wasn’t
at all appreciated
by amusement pur-
veyors. For the
past three years
Sydney as a show-
town has been
drifting. That has
been the experience
of Williamson,
Mclntosh, Tait,
Fuller and the pic-
ture people. Mel-
bourne now gives
far better returns
than Sydney in all
branches, although
the reverse was the
case a little while
ago. Particularly
is this true of the
picture shows.
You’ll hear the
same moan from
the suburban show-
men, many of whom
rely on a weekly
vaudeville night to
pull them out of
mess. Actually
Sydney is fed up
with the class of
entertainment that
has been offering
for a long time
now, nnd it needs
a real up-to-date house to put a sparkle into
things.
“Orb”: Talking of actors with whiskers.
Dumpier always wore a moustache, even
when languishing in a convict’s cell. Tither-
adge wore one for years. W. 11. Vernon,
Genevieve Word’s leading man, played every-
thing, including Cardinal Wolsey, with a
heavy military moustache. Majeroni sported
full face foliage. Arthur Dacre wore a
moustache. At George Rignold’s benefit
at Sydney Majesty’s (10/9/’95), in the
Forum scene from “Julius Caesar,” Caesar’s
corpse was played by tragedian Charles Hall.
When Marc Antony ltignold threw back the
purple pall, Caesar was disclosed wearing a
heavy black moustache. The irrepressible
Rignold muttered, “But I see they didn’t
shave him!” Handsome George’s own fim-
briated decoration Inked as if an eyebrow
had slipped down and stuck on’ his upper
lip.
The Marchioness of Townshend looms
large just now as a playwright. “The Fold”
is her latest effort, and its first production
in Manchester promised a bright future.
The Marchioness 10 years ago published
“Musings and Maxims,” but that was mostly
dull and frequently piffle. For example, “It
is not odd that women are very often antag-
onistic to women : all female animals fight
each other.” Evidently she had never
studied life in a fowl-yard.
“C. Ockney” : It isn’t all lords and dukes
nowadays with the playwrights in England.
Instead, there seems to be something like a
run on the servants’ quarters. Barrie’s
“Admirable Crichton” is lording it over his
employers at the Royalty, and “below stairs”
is having a look in at two* other London
theatres. The Criterion has been showing
“Lord Richard in the Pantry” for some
months, and recently Gertrude Elliott (who
does not call herself Lady Forbes Robertson
on the bills) has come to town with a piece
called “Come Out of the Kitchen.”
Even Paris seems to think the latest one-
act thriller at the Grand Guignol a bit over
the odds. The scene is the cottage of a
rustic with a reputation for healing mixed
with sorcery. Two farmers, father and son,
have come to consult him about disease
among their sheep, and he learns from an
outsider that the younger man is his wife’s
lover. He ties up the informer, whose child
is left outside. Th<sa he tells the others
that the only cure for their sheep is dipping
the wool in a child’s blood. So they call
in the only child in sight, and cut its throat
on a table in full view of the audience. Its
father, roused by its shrieks, breaks loose
and kills them both. Husband drags wife
in and introduces her to a floor full of
corpses. “This is your doing!” Curtain.
THE CHORUS-MOTHERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"The average conception of the chorus-girl is—
veil, it isn’t fit to print. Yet last year, when the
Follies went on the road, almost 50 girls in the
company took their mothers along.”— Ziegfeld, the
American manager (B. 20/ol’ZO).
Almost fifty chorus-girls, modest as maids can be,
All on the road with the big New York musical
comcdee!
‘‘dee! They're corkers and peaches all,” you’ll hear
wherever they go,
And their high-flung tootsies and downcast eyes are
the features of the show.
Modest and shy, they keep at bay the ogling stage-
door throng,
For the almost-fifty chorus girls have taken their
mothers along.
Who says it’s a wheeze as old as the gags that on
any stage are cracked ?
The gossip of Rumor (lying jade!) it is sure lo
counteract.
When Ma is around decorum .reigns—the American
brand, severe;
What raffish man with his offers of flowers and
suppers will persevere
When he finds that the fairies in silken tights, who
revel in dance and song,
To the number of fifty, or almost fifty, have taken
their mothers along?
The mothers of chorus-ladies all are a permanent
guarantee—•
So the managers says, and he knows—of his show’s
respectabilitee.
Out on the road with a cheerful heart goes he and
a conscience clean,
And he bangs the drum and scoops the pool wherever
his troupe is seen.
But the almost-fifty deserted fathers declare that the
thing’s all wrong,
When the almost half a hundred mothers have gone
with their girls along!
VICTORIA.
BILL BILE.
HIS SUPPORT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Miss Achurch I supported, sirs,
And Nellie Stewart, too;
Miss Pomroy, when the world was hers,
Fine Mrs. Beere. But few
Who were quite eminent, in short,
Had not the boon of my support.”
His wife spoke up: “He has,” said she,
“Supported everyone but me!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


Mm-M
WHAT
IT IS.
Wawn’s Wonder-Wool is Concentrated Medicinal Heat —con-
tained in a scientifically processed cotton wool, every fibre of
which is thoroughly impregnated with Unique Medicinal Pain-
relieving Essences. So carefully are these Essences blended,
and so evenly is its warmth radiated (that equal rays of heat
are diffused from the whole surface) that its effect has been
likpned to the stimulating action of an agreeably charged
Electric Battery.
WHAT
IT DOES.
Wawn’s Wonder-Wool STOPS PAIN by dispelling Blood
Congestion—which is the real cause of pain. Just as an
injured finger is naturally placed in the mouth so that
Nature’s own heat may relieve the Pain, so Wawn’s Wonder-
Wool, when applied to that portion of the body where the
pain is, infuses warmth, stimulates circulation, dispels blood-
congestion and STOPS PAIN.
NO HOME CAN AFFORD TO BE
WITHOUT WAWN’S WONDER-WOOL.
It is so simply, easily and quickly applied—its effect is so certain. Its results
are so sure. Unequalled for:—
Influenza, Pleurisy, Asthma, Bronchitis, Coughs,
Colds, Sore Throat, Quinsy, Tonsilitis, Laryngitis,
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Gout, Croup, Cold
Feet, Strains, Sprains, Headache, Backache, Tooth-
ache, Earache, Abdominal Pains, Neuralgia,
Neuritis, etc., etc.
SOLD EVERYWHERE, 2J- PACKET
Or direct from V. A. Wawn, 44 Elizabeth Street,
Redfern, Sydney, N.S.W.
Strop through
the Razor
Mov*> the
Razor io
and fro
A DIFFERENCE.
The A utoStrop is different from every other kind
of safety razor. Only those who have tried it
can appreciate its vast superiority. You can
put up a new keen edge on the blade daily-
by simply slipping the strop through the razor
and passing it to and fro.
“VALET”
Safety Razor
As a safety,razor it eliminates risk; and its special
construction eliminates the necessity of constant
blade renewals, and the time and trouble in
cleaning which every other safety razor involves.
Obtainable Everywhere throughout Australasia.
Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY, Denison House,
380-2 George Street, Sydney.
IMPORTANT.—The word “VALET” on RAZORS,
STROPS and BLADES indicates the genuine product of the
AiitoStrop Safety Razor Co., Ltd., 01 New Oxford Street,
Ttrr*- —London.
STANDARD SET,
as illustrated, com-
prising heavily silver-
plated self-stropping
safety razor, first
quality “Valet” horse-
hide strop and 12
finest lancet steel
tested “Valet” blades,
the whole in hand-
some leather-covered
case, 27/6. Solid
nickel case, 30/-
Obtainable every-
where. Price in N.Z.,
30/- and 32/6
respectively.
§§§fgj§»!§
■&ttsxffr£r*#>
fg
ĝ
ğji
:■f:■:■:■
fgjfj
gfj
hjĝh
jfg
.: gh. •
STUEBING LIFT TRUCKS—For Speed,
Ease of Operation and Economy.
gfgf
With Stuebing Trucks you can
roll your products along with
an ease and freedom that will
mean increased production at
lower cost.
They make it easy for you to
keep your floors clean, and
allow your work to move
freely from one operation to
another. If your products
vary in size, shape or weight,
it makes no difference—Stuebing Lift Trucks will handle
them better than any other method.
Platforms are built to carry all kinds of goods, odd shapes as well as uniform
packages. When the platform is loaded, back the Stuebing under, raise
the load and roll it away with speed, ease of operation, less labor and with
SAFETY.
The Special construction and broad surface of the truck body gives great
stability—enables heavy loads to be carried without injury to floors, and
prevents tipping when loading or running.
The Chassis frame of best machinery steel—bridge construction, gives great
strength and lightness to the truck. The Axles of high Carbon Steel, similar
to those used in automobile construction, are of large diameter, accurately
machined and finished. A constant System of Lubrication on all wheels
retains the oil and excludes dust and dirt.
STUEBING LIFT TRUCKS are the choice of great industries the World
over, not only because of their lightness and strength but because they
can be safely and successfully operated by unskilled labor.
Write us to-day and we will send you free illustrated leaflets which give full
details of these Time, Labor and Money-saving Trucks.
it s>
•r i
Every industry lias a place for the Stuebing System, which
cuts delay cost.
■■■ ■
Boxes, Barrels, Sacks, Crates—anything can be handled
more economically with the Stuebing System.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD.,
Union House, 247 George Street, SYDNEY. Collins House, MELBOURNE. Union Bank Chambers, Queen Street, BRISBANE.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
WeBt Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
sole Agents : RESCHS, LiniTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS&WiiITTy
Make Your Footwear Last Longer.
hizhPsi a^ Um amOUDt of wear can on,y be obtained by using a Dressing of the
THE SIGN OF
A GOOD SHINE
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES
are made by leather experts. They are free from all mineral
oils, which are injurious to leather, and act as a preservative,
in addition to giving a brilliant polish.
COLORS: —BIack, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
IJm BOTTLES AND TUBES. Obtainable Everywhere.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney
THE PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
SPORTING
NOTION
MICK
SIMMONS
FOR
SPORTING
NEEDS
The rain that discounted the attendance
at Flemington last Saturday didn't upset the form
of the horses in any marked degree. The first
event, the York Hurdle, which promised to throw
light on the National, fell to Leddington, talked
of as a good thing and backed down to 5 to 1
Leddington was always in the first flight, and in
the end he won easily from Tullilah and Briglht
Plume. All the others with alleged National chances
—Beltane, Mabu, Vaquero, Colonel Ivnut, Sandule,
1 istolier. etc. ran well enough, considering the
circs., and the books seemed to regard the race
as a stimulant to business on the event due four
weeks later. If Leddington and Tullilah were certi-
ficated stayers one would pick them for the National
against anything they beat on Saturday, allowing
that they were possibly riper than most of the
others. But two miles, when the pace is on the
slow side, is a different proposition to three miles
when the going’s good, as it probably will be the
first Saturday in July. Melbourne seems to be get-
ting ahead of its average rainfall. On the assump-
tion that he has not been hurried in his prepara-
tion and is as stout a stayer as you can get. Bright
Plume can be expected to prove the best of the 15
National candidates that ran in the York Hurdle
* * . *
Although Sir Prim has done remarkably
well as a ’chaser since his long years of mediocritv
at the little sticks, he is now suspected of a ten-
dency to turn up the job at the finish. The wav
m which the ancient son of Sir Tristram stopped
in the last 100 yards of the Australian Steeple
last August, allowing Algous to pip him on the
post, was a caution to punters. At the VR C
meeting on Saturday he nearly lost a race to his
stable companion, Jack Friar, in the same old wav
/VI ? e n\ < ! n ? ance , was grand, considering the weight
(last. 91b.) and the mud, but his final slow-down
was disturbing. Why does he “stop to nothing”
after taking the lead at the last fence? With the
handsome ICinlark (12st. 51b.) coming fast whilst
bir 1 rim was going slow, it looks as though the
first-named will be the must dangerous of the top-
weights in the G. N. Steepre. lolaus, hitherto favo-
rite, fell at his first fence.
****
Battleplane, aiways on the up-grade, won
the Royal Handicap after slippery Pannikin had
done his dash Next to Tragic Star the Welkin
„ elding was the best-backed candidate in the field,
and he rose to the occasion whilst Tragic Star was
disappointing his friends as usual. There’s an im-
pression abroad that if the Newmarket had been
run three months later than it was Battleplane would
nave won. Some members of the precocious Welkin
ofThem imPr ° Ve WitU ag<? ’ a,ld Battleplane is one
The vain cleared off for the second day of the
meeting, but the cold was horrible. In the Marl-
borough Hurdle the two favorites Oopina and Cap-
tain \V. practically had the race to themselves from
the jump. Captain W. moved to the front at the
r^ but could make no response when
challenged by the top-weight. The Prince found
tlie winner of the big Steeplechase, namely lolaus.
But, then, so did nearly evervbody else. Carrying
the handy imposition of lOst. 71b. the Hercules
horse ran to the front early in the proceedings and
stayed there. Mucora, who did no good for Mrs
Gudgeon, took the Birthday Handicap (1} mile) for
A. J. Staughton, beating La union, with Dempsey up
a length. J
,^ r - Fairway’s” King of the Sea was
'ill'in the best thing in sight in Adelaide at w.f.a.
■it tin? Birthday Cup meeting. A good many took
tile "porting chance of the 400 sovereigns, there
1 V 1 ?! ;l °' including the crack two year-
oicl ltesso and the three-year Lord Setay, also Wee
tiun, Stagegirl and other winners. King of the
bea won easily from Lord Setav and Clever Jim.
i here was not much inter-State competition for
tie City Handicap, and backers entirely failed to
analyse the local form. Old Pistolarie, Alacrity and
were most fancied, and none finished in the
nrst three. Hawker's Mareca just failed by a head
to repeat her Goodwood win. Anotto, the winner,
paid L 22 15s. He was bought in Sydney by A.R.C.
committee-man H. G. Young two vears ago.
* * . ‘ *
p h e weights for the Y.R.C. Grand National
Hurdles and the Thousand Hurdles next week at
Kandwick constitute a gibe at someone's handicap-
ping. At Kandwick Angleform has 12st. 101 b. Tliis
allotment makes him out a 51b. better horse than
ihaletas, and 121 b. better than Shadow Dancer.
14 asks him to give Mountwood 191 b. and
British Arch and Silent Way 221 b. The Kandwick
handicap is, further, a proclamation that Thaletas
can give Shadow Dancer half a stone, and that
11 ounxwood is 51b. better than British Arch. The
, Jt niingtoii weight fixer makes Shadow Dancer give
Angleiorm 91b. ; he estimates Thaletas as being 71b.
DPtter than Angleform, British Arch 51b. better
Ilian Mountwood, and Silent Way and Angleform
equal.
I’or tlio Chester Plato (six furlongs) and
i mice of " ales Cup (a mile and five furlongs), to
, Randwick next week, the sprinters are
{* . l>ett<; r lot than the stayers, the field for the Cup
eing mostly of the suburban-handicap varietv.
Silver ton 111 b), a St. Alwynp gelding in
Harry Robinson’s stable, lately sold to go to West-
lalia, sticks out as easily the best-treated nag ill
uie handicap and Accrington (Bst. 41b.) and lan
or (Bst 21b.) Suggest themselves as the most likely
to argue the point. Over the short course Amber-
down has 9st. 71b.; and as he seems to be back to
tne form which made him champion of Bananaland
a couple oi seasons ago, he ought to win if he is
ei ci going to win again.
A tremendous sum of money must have
_T™, ,) T °, Ul ' < ;' l , in !;° the coffers of the books over this
, V s En ffV sh I)erbv - Tetratema, Major MeCalmont’s
hoiomeiial colt—beaten but once in his career,
• id then reputedly by a fluke—finished nowhere.
as sa,rl to ho carrying, eight weeks ago, as
JJJ™ money _as had ever been piled on a Derby
c Splon Kop, is by the 1906 Derby-
mnei .Spcainnnt, and is eoneequenly a grandson
wi,n al ’n 1 o ie ‘ i " X, ’ ,n ; hi« jockey, is a Franco-Irishman
nithsSd'Sbie? ,ot or ridin * in Paris tor the
had* the ° f WaleS ° UP PUnterS
from Holt’s stable.
Ho t had three going
- Antenor and Lan-
nion (imp.) and Earl*
born (Australian), and
in spite of his reputa-
tion for uncertainty
the aged gelding soil
of Earlston carried
more money than his
stable-mates. He was
fit as a fiddle, and the
mud suited him down
to the ground. C. B.
Kellow’s Earlborn
simply romped home
front Well Off (a 3-
year-old in .T am e s
Scobie’s stable) and
Lann i o n in 2.42 i,
which is about as slow
as you can get the
time in a 12-furlong
race with a gold cup
attached to it, even
on a wet day.
HOLT, the
trainer who won
the Prince of
Wales Cup in
Melbourne for
C. B. Kellow.
The French racing authorities are now
proposing to open totalizator offices in Paris • and
presumably the latter will spread in time to the
great . provincial towns. It is the outcome of an
investigation which has shown that “£400,000 daily
is being placed with bookmakers” in the city, and
that these practitioners are in the habit of squaring
jockeys to pull favorites. The Government is evi-
dently not so anxious to stop betting as to get its
cut of the gambling money. Otherwise it would
“take to” the shops in a serious manner, bookmaking
of all descriptions being illegal in France. A betting-
shop is, for obvious reasons, one of the easiest of
illegal resorts to identify; and the patrons are not
wedded to it by a loyalty born of a sense of value
received, as in the case of most sly-grogshops. All
that the police have to do in such cases is get busv,
and convictions must follow bv the hundred. This
applies equally in Australia.
* * * *
The Third Novice at the Q.T.C. Autumn
Meeting was a wonderful betting race, no fewer
than six being quoted at under double figures The
all-conquering Albert Wood was on the favorite and
winner, Monochord. The Sydney jockey was also on
Had-I-Wist when he won the Moreton'Handicap arc!
unexpectedly beat Molly’s Robe in the w.f.a. nine
furlong Royal Stakes. At the same meeting Litre
(fressady—■Lcmnere) appropriately won the Claret
Stakes.
From the Spring handicap entries one
misses Bradfield’s trio who filled the places in last
Caulfield Cup, viz., Night Watch, Lucknow, and
Chrome. Lucknow (retired) and Night Watch (gone
to India) didn’t, run many times, but they were
placed oftener than not. and between them thev
scored a win and a fourth in Melbourne Cup, a wiii
and a second in Caulfield Cup, a win in the Futuritv
Stakes, and a second in Sydney Cup. Chrome’s best
performances were a second and third in Caulfield
Cup, and a fourth in Melbourne Cup, but the con-
sistency of his form this season made him an object
of interest every time he started. Melbourne pun-
ters were fond of Chrome, all the more because he
had a doubtful leg which didn’t prevent the trusty
st< ed from coming up to the scratch again and
again.
In one respect, at any rate, Wales gives
his guardians less anxiety than Edinburgh did.
When the latter visited the special race meeting at
Flemington (Vic.) in November, 1867, he was chap-
eroned by Capt. Standish, Commissioner of Police,
and one of the race stewards, who carefully guarded
the visitor from the bookmakers. One of the fra-
ternity, however, got in. This was Joe Thompson,
then king of the ring, with whom Edinburgh made
a bet. The Prince lost and paid by cheque. The
piece of paper Thompson had framed and hung at
Don Juan House. Standish wouldn’t permit any
further wagering.
* * *
Owing to the hardness of the parched
ground, N.S.W. Coursing Association had to abandon
its Grand Challenge meeting listed for June 1, ;l
and 4 at Kooty Hill. Hard going matters not at
all to the hare. Neither does it greatly interfere
with the greyhound, so far as straight ahead gallop-
ing is concerned. It is when Bluey and Spot start
scratching gravel on the turns that toenails are
torn off; and the average dog-owner would rather
forfeit his favorite grandmother than have his doe-
injured.
Canada having withdrawn from the Davis
Cup, and Holland and S’Africa being regarded as
duds, Britain, U.S.A. and France will struggle for
the honor of meeting Australia. On paper Britain
is likely to go under to either of the others, who
have the advantage of superior youth and endurance.
Britain’s best are comparatively venerable beside
the Frenchmen Gobert and Laurents:, and any of
the Americans, Johnston, Tilden and Williams. ' The
Yanks average about 20, and on their records they
should give Australia some desperately hard work.
* * * *
The Northern’ Union footballers appeared
before the record League crowd of 70,000 at Sydney
tucket Ground on Saturday, their opponents being
a team of Sydney players. England won after a
great tussle by 27 points (five tries six goals) to
"0 points (tour tries four goals). Harold Wag-
*»** , o, i e ° f th « h e'oes of the Pommy team of
IJI4, led the Woodbines, who, in their white
uniforms, looked much heavier than the black-
jerseyed bydney thirteen. In reality there was only
1-lb. difference m the total weights of the sides,
from the moment tuples kicked off the play was
exciting. The English forwards, though beaten for
the ball, were remarkably fast and clever in the
loose; whilst the back division made excellent use
oi the sphere when they got it. Their straight run-
ning and heady backing-up were in favorable con-
trast to the jolty methods of the Sydney rearguard.
Ben Gronow, the tourists’ giant forward, kicked all
six goals for them; one magnificent pot from over
60 yards out only just missed; and on another
occasion the ball struck the cross-bar and rebounded
into play.
Gronow is a. great all-rounder, but the finest
player ot I lie combination was .1. Rogers, who scored
two clever tries, was in every scoring movement and
badly beat the local inside backs. Wagstaffe was
always on the alert to turn Sydney’s errors to Eng-
land s advantage. In fact, his able generalship did
a lot to give England the day. \y. j. stone, the
Enghsli right winger, played a remarkably fine
and proved a very slippery customer, posses-
to?KaSw? 3o ? al flier Jlarold Horder.
StafweU’ on the left wing, was also brilliant,
a d his two tries were the result of very headv
n.mVfo,- ‘“ od *? or< % r >. Australia’s champion three-
quarter, was the bright particular star of the
Sidney side. He notched 15 points (three tries
tbaf f° als )° f Sydney’s 20 points, despite the fact
that he' w . W< K^i” e ? ,7? t,bed him like cats and
vn uh .i , ba< y , fed b - v hls centres. Viv Farns-
££**?“* cerltre played 0,10 of finest games of
wn career, and was a tower of strength in
both attack and defence. H. Gilbert, on the other
l and, played wretchedly, being repeatedly sold a
!° / et , hi * P aw * on the easiest
; ir * a P^ es » 3 1 stand-off half, was disappoint-
;,ia„ „ WaS plai " ly overawed by the importance
*he occasion, and failed wholly to reproduce his
H ' S - attack was to ° orthodox, he never
raried it one iota, and his tackling was rotten
fiib, U re Pl tn ng ° f , the stru f?ff le was Gilbert’s
failure to leplace him by Viv Farnsworth in the
second spell. Tiny McGowan worked the scrum in
gieat stjle. Given the ball by Pearce and his merrv
For” s Q JJjL 1 * i U ? Ut and tackled likp a demon,
loi a 9-stoner lie is a marvel. Chook Frazer was
a disappointment, more particularly as a tackier
Lawrence was fair, hut is not yet up to inter-
and°dbl s *£ n . dard - The.forwards were a success,
and did their duty, gaining possession from the
seiums and slinging the ball about in good style.
bv nntlin hi vf ? P< i n ’ b ’ Jt ™ ade tw 9 bad mistakes
pu . t4l y his boot to the ball when nearing the
h -” '<■*“"«S'-i
Tire scores 27 to 20 just siun matters up: Sydney
three-quarter. * * ' * Stand ' off hal£ and a centre
* *
- a l Urda / n aS v ai ? off " da - v for spectacular
football under Rugby Union Rules. The four lead-
-2* tail-enders and smothered them
by a total of 127 points to 23. Manly (40—3)
fe d , that „ matu >.e star Henry against Newtown.
Half the Village side scored tries, but Mingav (who
is apparently the only man on the side with' boots)
was only equal to converting two of them. Mosman
put up a fair show against Easts—nine points to
, Mairott, the Eastern forward, gave a fine dis-
play, and Mcßone and Dawson were the nick of the
backs. The Hodgins brothers shone for Mosman-
D., as a matter of fact, would shine in any team.'
In the M ests-Glebe-Balmain match there was no
score at half-time. No player held the ball longer
tba " necessary, the game being willing. Ferguson,
of G.-B. had three ribs smashed, and there were
other incidents. G.-B. forged ahead in the second
half, winning by 16 points. The G.P.S. boys annu-
ally make a better show against Varsity than Norths
did, inasmuch as, though the scholars regularly go
down, they never chuck it in. Four out of the nine
tries were converted—no great average, as the posi-
tions were easy. Oxenham, Wallace and Farqubar
were prominent for ’Varsity. Humphries booted in
North s small contribution.
Pile collision of Richmond and South Mel-
bourne in Vic. League football is usually an event,
but on Saturday the rain turned it into water polo.
'The team that dribbled the ball most featly and then
booted it straight did best. Still, the" play was
close up to three-quarter time, after which South
tried to play on conventional lines, while Richmond
continued dribbling, always towards their star
■kicker, Bayliss, so that in the end they ran out
27 points to the good—6l to South’s 34. Mel-
bourne went out to the Carlton ground and, play-
ing the same game as Richmond, achieved the
notable tally of 13 goals six behinds to Carlton’s
seven goals 24 behinds —a deficit of 18 points to
the latter. The old Blues
excel in high marking,
but it wasn’t a day for
that sort of thing. Rich-
mond is unbeaten so far,
while ’Roy and Melbourne
have lost but one game
each. Geelong hasn’t had
a solitary victory, while
Saints have only one.
Saints, by the way, are
at sixes and sevens, half
the team refusing to be
seen on the same ground
with the other half, and
until the members become
cither all Saints or all
Sinners they aren’t likely
to do much good for
themselves.
TOM LEAHY, one
of the best followers
in Australian foot-
hall. He captained
the South Aus. team
in Melbourne recently.
, Iu tl , lG^ ugl) y League carnival at Sydney
io t ,::,r‘L N r CaSt A L - ? eat Northe,n Districts by 49
10 ami Southern Districts by 20—16. Scully (wine
lunflpa't'hA 6 ™ • 8, . ,0wed all-round ability, and
PO P + th ,v I J ,° nty of .points in both matches. C.
robert was also up to city form. Sydney Uni
Leaguers filled in a bye v. South Coast and
anll ,e i,y e< 2o~ e 2 ab f lutely novcl sens “«on of a win—
Queensland Soccerites made a draw of it
in tlie return match with N.S.W. at Brisbane on
Saturday. Scores, two all. N.S.W.’s full-back Lam-
°ne ° f Q ' S goals ' Coi,tes « ot both of
j ° y 0U 1 s riot !,t Fremantle
alter the game between Perth and South
niantle" l timpt nd jt h , app< Y led because the South Fre-
mantle timekeeper inadvertently placed his elbow
in /rw le< un lC , bell ’”.• whrn Souths were three points
in front with four minutes to go. Proceedings were
« Af( d rtb »ogged j >. and won 'by* three
had prit 6r f t lat r i eal .' ly ever ybody on the' ground
nu<l d crack at somebody else.
~Y* L- 1 yo, a rapidl.t -improving distance
athlete of S. Sydney, landed the “own” foil,-mil.
road race on Saturday. With a Imin 40see. handi
cap he won in 23min. 30sec. 11. Havden (‘>(Ko<' )
arrived second in 22min. lsec. (fastest hue) which
is an approach to Jhis old championship form.
Sam Jennings, a well-known sporting
2 1 " hi??! ° f covered 25 miles last week in .
?, hoi ” s Slmui. This is nearly 20 minutes better
• previous best, and the merit o! the feat
is added to by the fact that Samuel is nearly fio
able 8 to X ~l le Y! te ," <ls - «aH Parties are airee-
House n ?° Sydney Government
from his nnt- d deposit a message of loYaltv
Y,w i uatne town at the feet of the Prints
Bathufsf'Town «> that by Parting from the
burst , ? n on tho P- at 2 p - ,n ' he win b e able to
SS,.',U n «?,„!££*”*.?. f**™* • m " ,u bt
th J matching of the men was reflected in
the state of the house at Sydney Stadium'on Satur
Sulliva V n en the , Filipino > encountered
Manilaman he' locked' a* HU ffh Ss
ot, P T' ,L , and he Placed it on the colored vouth
p ™ c * lc^ll v "’hen a »d where he liked. Bv the‘sixth
'!! ld Ibe visitor was beyond hope of victory and
well within hail of a knock-out. The referee gave
t h " ;r the '| 10U1,d for luck - and then
whft -f aIU Presented the laurel of victory for
what worth, to the local man.
Adelaide Uni., finely stroked bv H J
Sinter State’ elbourne - Brisbane and'Sydney in
bG , t rp h bt ‘ l , tp race on the Yarra last
in Ifimi.T ai!' VO a A nd * ]*« mUes were left aw.sh
g lOst 1m, C ' A( % la ’de was a light crew, averag-
J* 10ht. 131 b., against Brisbane’s list. 21b., Mel-
bourne s list. 41b. and Sydney’s list. 51b. Of the
29 inter-Varsity eight-oar races Sydney has won 14
Melbourne 11 and Adelaide four.
. Faree : Where did the crawl-stroke
tmf' ln «tl Erni ?. Cavill now in the Northern Terri-
tliat was invented” by his family of
obime tea^ ers and swimmers. Alec Wickham
V t m ha lu it from Honolulu. Who is
ngntf Textbooks of swimming describe it, but
aon t account for it.
* * *
“Bung”: At Hoskinstown (N.S.W.).
where a eucalyptus-oil industry recently went bung
tor want of a regular market, I saw' a'theorist giv-
Y^i. demonstration to uphold his idea that the oil
distilled from certain gum-leaves could be utilised
as a motor-spirit. His product when exposed to air
vaporised readily, and an explosion followed the
a Fiu Cat,on •?’, a Does anyone know anything
of the possibilities?
* * * *
The first thing the victorious women
rowers of S. Aus. have to face on their return home
I? a _?ballenge. During the trial race, which sent
the River team to Brisbane as reps, of their State,
a stretcher collapsed in the opposing boat; and
that crew, the Barcarolle Club, of Adelaide, seeks
an opportunity to prove that it would have gone
to Queensland but for the accident.
THE WINNING WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
hcix to the throne oi the British Empire
shaking' hands with the waitresses after an official
luncheon —that was the sight witnessed yesterday.”
- —Sydney Sun.
“And, dearie, I’m telling no word of a lie.”
<( Tlius Annabel Smythe to her friend Hannah Brown.
“I hope if my words are untrue I may die.
I saw it —and, Hannah, I nearly fell down:
He held out his hand, just like you might to me
Cl he waitress teas here; and him there) and sezzee:
Glad to meet yer. Goo’ day.’ Almost human he
seemed ;
And they shoot, while 1 felt like a person that
dreamed.
Imagine it, Hannah! The Heir to the Throne!
Bell, after a while I came round, more or less,
And there he was shaking, not only with one,
But all of ’em. Hannah, I frankly confess
I turned to old James, the head-waiter, and cried:
‘James, what does it mean?' The old feller replied
(And you know what his knowledge of titled folks is
The result of a life in the butloring biz) —
Boa] lady, he said, ‘in that rarefied sphere
Which Princes adorn, the great Goddess of Chance
Is worshipped more fervently far than down here;
They wager on things like the hour when a dance
Or dinner will end : or the length of a course;
The bleed of a dog, or the age of a horse —
Kindly follow me closely.’ I answered: ‘I will;
But 1 own that I’m utterly mystified still.'
*' ‘No doubt,’ he resumed, with a satisfied ga in,
‘Vou lack the advantages I have enjoyed.
To you it seems not far removed from a sin
That he should the after-lunch hour have employed
In such an extremely unusual way.
Well, here is my view, and I venture to say
You will find it correct. His intention, fixed, set
And unshakable, was to succeed in a bet.’ ”
N.S.W.
10-2-1.


In Fun or in Earnest
the accomplishment of Scientific Box-
ing is one that will give you the
greatest pleasure and the greatest
return for the time spent in learning
it. It is twice as much fun to spar
with a knowledge of the right moves
and punches and science of the game
—and if forced to a fight this same
knowledge is the greatest asset you
can possess. It brings you out a
satisfied winner instead of a bruised
and disappointed loser.
I Teach Boxing by Post
and will quickly develop your natural skill. Why
not be one of my pupils? The instruction is prac-
tical, simple and easily understood. It thoroughly
explains and illustrates every serviceable move in
Scientific Boxing. You reap the benefit of my
many years’ experience and keen observation of
the “hits,” stops” and “moves” of the world s most
famous Boxers.
Send your name and address and I will post you
my interesting Booklet, “Scientific Boxing in the
Home.” Forward three stamps to cover postage.
“SNOWY” BAKER K.O.
BOXING GLOVES.
In two grades, 16/6 and 22/6 per
set of Four Gloves, post free,
(ioz. and Boz. Large, medium
and small sizes. Every set per-
sonally selected and guaranteed.
Ili£
J
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,
REG. L. (‘Snowy’) BAKER,
277 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
r UAICEFIELD
Reger.
o!l\
MOT
is the lubricant used in the four
Crossley Cars
Used by H.R.H.
The Prince of Wales.
C.C.WakefieldSCo.Ltd.
5 Moore Street, SYDNEY,
and LONDON.
r ■rrrrrrrrv
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Over the World*
A'Zv/K
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING. MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY
Box 229 (i.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY
Box 22© Q.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
No Gold
is too
obstinate
for
GREATHEAD’S
MIXTURE
Its wonderful penetrating
powers get right to the seat
of the trouble and destroy the
germs that cause the cold.
Greathead’s is no new-fangled
cure-overnight remedy, but a
reliable household medicine
of 45 years’ standing. It is a
sure cure for Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Sore Throat,
Croup, Quinsy, Fever, Ague,
etc.
GET A BOTTLE
FROM YOUR
GROCER
OR CHEMIST.
Think Well
Over It
and then make up your mind that
there is no longer any need to
suffer from Constipation —lack of
tone, depression, Indigestion, Dys-
pepsia, Morning Sickness, if you
will only use—•
GREATOIDS
—the Small but Great Liver Pills;
for these tiny little pills, so easy
to take and so simple and sure in
effect, are prepared from the finest
ingredients by an expert Chemist
with one object, and that is to
tone up the system, remove depres-
sion, and they
Will Cure You.
So whenever you feel a little out
of sorts and run down, just take an
occas.onal dose.
Obtainable at all Grocers’ and
Chemists’.
Small Size, 1/-; Large 1 Double the
Quantity), 1/6.
New Shipments Just Arrived.
WEINBERG’S and PALL MALL
CIGARETTES.
ON SALE BY
A. A. MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney,
TOBACCONIST, AND ALL BRANCHES.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydnsy
Provident Society
The Tij’.rgest and Most Successful
Mutual Fufe Olllce in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £41,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Public Notice.
Bendigo Amalgamated Goldfields,
No Liability.
NOTICE.
A DIVIDEND, the First, of Sixpence per Share, has
been declared on all shares in the Company,
Nos. 1-1,769,038 inclusive, payable on WEDNES-
DAY, 30th JUNE, 1920. Transfer Books close at
the Company’s Office, Commonwealth Chambers,
Bendigo, on Friday, 11th June, 1920. Shareholders
holding scrip in other names must forward same
for transfer, otherwise the dividend will be paid to
the registered holders. J. G. STANFIELD, Manager.
Bendigo, 22nd May, 1920.
Public Notices.
/ 1 IFT OF LAND-CLEARING INVEN-
IJ TION TO FARMERS.
Send Two Stamps to “CLEARING,”
Griffith, N.S.W.
Missing Friends.
Thomas Charles iieithersay,
(late of Peterborough, South Austra-
lia), last heard of at Broken Hill about
nine months ago. The Executor of the
will of the late Samuel Heithersay, of Peter-
borough (S.A.), is desirous of winding up
the estate, and would like to hear from or of
the above before doing so. Please communi-
cate with
GEO. PHILP, Peterborough, S.A.
NOTICE FOR NEXT OF KIN.
TF MARY CALMAN or McCALMAN, daughter of the
I late Henry Murray C’ahnan or McCalman, at one
time of Adelaide, South Australia, and sister of Syd-
ney Caiman and the late Martha Purves Wragge (for-
merly Caiman), of Strathmerton, Victoria, and also
of the late Andrew Lumsden Caiman or McCalman, of
Qasterton, Victoria, and John Scott Caiman, of
Numurkah, Victoria, will communicate with the
undersigned, she will hear of something to her advan-
tage. In the event of the said Mary Caiman or
McCalman having been married and being now
deceased, her lawful child or children (if any) should
communicate with the undersigned.
Dated the 29th day of May, 1920.
DAVID TUNNOCK & SON, Solicitors,
Melville Street, Numurkah, Victoria.
L
WW.h *
m
SSS
L
jevfcffld
IpOR transporting heavy loads over short or
* medium distances nothing beats the Steam
Lorry. It costs less to run than the Petrol and with
the addition of a trailer it can carry an exceptionally
big load. It is particularly suitable for haulage of
Wool, Wheat, Road-metal, Bricks, etc.
“To Pull the Wool'*
LEYLAND LOGIC
Owing to the boiler being in
front of the front axle and the
engine and gearing being
mounted in the frame between
the two axles a greater load-
ing space and a much better
weight distribution is obtain-
ed. Legland Steam and Petrol
driven Lorries are made
throughout in our own British
Factories —STEAM DRIVEN
5, 6 and 8 tons; PETROL
DRIVEN, 2 to 6 tons, includ-
ing special Export models 3
and 5 tons —Stocks always on
hand.
LEYLAND MOTORS LTD.
London Bank Cka bers.
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY


EVENING ATTIRE
TAILORED TO MEASURE
IT is in the severe yet graceful lines of the evening dress
suit that skill in tailoring shows to best advantage The
very absence of superfluous adornment in masculine clothing
necessitates perfection of every tiny detail—perfection attained
in Farmer’s tailoring of formal attire. , ia(ial
Dinner Suits from .. fjW/- to £I 9 W
Evening Suits from .. ... •• £l7/17/-to 25 guineas
FARMER'S
“ The Store for Men”
Box 497, G.P.0., Sydney
u
SB
Wit
PERFECT GOWNING
WITHOUT FITTINGS
Such is the craft of Shave,
Master Ladies' Tailors and
Dressmakers of Melbourne, that
they are able to fashion perfectly
the most elaborate Qown
or the severest tailor -
suit without fittings
Visits by Shave to Sydney
and Adelaide each
half-year, and to
Brisbane yearly
LADIES' TAILORS,
DRESSMAKERS
Centreway, Melbourne
To show in Sydney
shortly, Kindly enquire
Hotel Carlton for
opening datirof display.
UYIKGK
'anityjaim
1 'smm®]KWiES
Vanity Fair Gloves em.
body the exquisite dainti-
ness admired by distinctive
dressers, with the snug trim-
ness that appeals to the
particular woman
They fit perfectly and re-
tain their shapeliness de-
spite much usage and
laundering.
InsistonVanityFairSilk
Gloves —the Gloves
with a guaran-
tee.
v.r. i*
'ttitttnuiuitill
MCLBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
After all the wrangling between the Gaud
Mayor on the one hand and Women’s Hos-
pital Ball promoters on the other, their re-
spective shivoos in the Town Hall turned
out to be the two functions that bored the
Prince to death, and sent him away without
a ghost of a smile on his face. The
Matrons’ Ball was an even worse infliction
than the Mayor’s push-and-scramble. Before
he got away from the awful ordeal the
Guest of Honor looked ready to sit on a
travelling trunk, like Leonard in “Kissing
Time,” and sing “Women haven’t any mercy
on a man.” His plea for a rest followed in
due course. Yet the Mayor and the
Matrons had been wrangling as to who
should “ entertain ” his Highness first!
Preferring to take his chance with the other
competitors for supper at the State At Home,
Prince Peter Pan ordered “this nonsense” —
pointing to a barrier of fancy cords —
to be taken away. He plainly chafes against
the restrictions put upon him by his own
staff; but he is positively contemptuous of
the restrictions sought to be put upon the
people by Bumble. Still, Bumble may be
right. He knows the people who crowd to
this soft bf thing in Australia better than
the Prince does.
The Prince had one of his busy days on
Thursday. He started with a snack with
the Returned Diggers at the Grand, hurried
off to take a degree at the Uni., and looked
in at a garden party at Federal Parliament
House before scurrying home for a wash
and a rest to fit him for further eating in
the evening. The accumulation of engage-
ments compelled him to dash round like a
personally-conducted Cook’s tourist. He was
only half an hour in the Federal Parlia-
mentary gardens, and not all the splendor
of the massed toilets and blazing belltoppers,
reinforced by the wit and beauty of the
typewriting staff, could hold him a minute
longer. To a certain extent he was thrown
off his timetable by the luncheon at the
Grand. From an extemporised bush atmos-
phere, carried out with miniature bark huts
and continued in illustrations on the menu,
H.R.H. found it difficult to tear himself
away, and it was well after two before he
did it. The informality of the proceedings
delighted the youth, and became the brighter
memory after a solemn banquet at the Mel-
bourne Club. Among the elderly wool barons
and other institutions Edward seemed hardly
at home. Not even in the London Corpora-
tion could he have seen so much tissue run-
ning to waist.
Officers on the Renown played the unex-
pected rble of supers at the first ball to the
Prince at Federal Government House. From
the skipper down they were generally
neglected, and several left early. The ward-
and gun-rooms of the Renown, however, were
not going to be deprived of a little hop, so
they organised a secret jazz on Monday
night. It was an evening of carefully-sorted
partners who did not include a large quan-
tity of Sassiety’s brightest buds. As a mat-
ter of fact, the invitations were rationed
among officers, who received strict orders to
bring “only friends who can dance’'
Aldermen and dowagers were barred.
Two S. Melbourne ladies were combining
the business of marketing and seeing the
Prince. They stood gazing up the road,
waiting and waiting. At last one of them
found her patience exhausted. “He’s late
again,” she snapped. “He’s always late. An’
me with the dinner to cook and all.”
Under pressure from Hughes and Halsey
the Prince agreed to cut out of his Bendigo
programme the underground trip in the
Unity mine; but when he got to the shaft
circumstances had so veered around to-
ward his own wishes that he stuck to the
original arrangement. Hughes had urged
that, as time was limited, it would be better
to see returned Billjims; but it was found
that some of the Diggers had gone on duty
specially to meet Edward below. And that
settled it.
For the Women’s Hospital Ball, which
was a record money-maker, everybody with
three guineas to spare tried to crowd into
the Town Hall. Yet it was a Naice crowd,
for the committee had sold the tickets with
care. No revellers rushed the supper; for
one thing, perhaps, because it was so simple
a supper. And that is one of the reasons
why the Hospital will bag anything from
£4OOO to £5OOO. The Mayoral Ball decora-
tions were left for the spree. The com-
mittee list included the Mayoress and Mrs.
Billy Hughes, Mrs. Emmerton and Mrs.
Spowers, Mrs. Brenan and Mrs. George
Tallis, Roma Clarke, Dr. Nattrass, George
Allan, Neil Smith, Mrs. Fairbairn and Mrs.
Earle. They made a solid semi-circle tor
the welcoming. Finkelstein, of H® l
Majestv’s, acted as major domo. llieie
were a bevy of d£bs„ among them Charles
Tait’s artist daughter Cecily. The Royal
Marine Band made ravishing music.
The Prince arrived late and tried to dance,
but the crowd was too dense. Still a sec-
tion managed to get round by all jazzing
together in the same direction.
Courtney Dix, the accountant, is a proud
father. Several times the Prince has singled
out daughter Gertie for . a dance. Still,
Edward has only discovered what the small
sprite’s partners have known all the season
—that she dances better than any other girl
in town. She managed to get some special
lessons from an Englishman who was keen
on the foxtrot and kuew how it was danced
in the sacred inner circles of the Big Smoke.
At the Hospital Ball the young person wore
a dainty scrap of a dress taade in blue and
mauve and a small wreath of blue roses.
The incomparable ankles and insteps were
clothed in blue silk. The Prince asked that
she might go on to Mrs. Payne’s dance so
that they could foxtrot there.
One drastic effect of the Prince’s rest pro-
gramme will be to cut out the visits to the
Nisi 11 and Fnlkiner sheep-homesteads. There
will be weeping and wailing in the Riverinn ;
while as for the Prince, he is going to see
even less of the real Australia than had
been programmed. If it had been left to
him he might have cut out the mayors.
The men about him affirm that Edward
can tell a story. The angelic-looking youth
is really immensely grown-up.
General Lloyd is having a busy time look-
ing after the transport of the Prince. And
a personal anxiety has been haunting him
through his work. A baby son died at its
birth, and the mother nearly followed into
the shadows.
Surgeon Lieut.-Cominander Carlton Ellis
has been chosen for duty as surgeon aboard
the Royal yacht, otherwise the little Una,
which has been fitted up for the use of the
I* rin c e au d his
shad o w, Admiral
Halsey. The Una
is to carry these
august personages
round the Islands—
if the Prince goes
there, which is
doubtful. Ellis was
recently transferred
to our Navy, and
has a job at the
Depot. PI e li a s
filled in spare shore
time at Melbourne
’Varsity hunting
some Australian
degree to add to his
collection. His war
service was exten-
sive. He doctored
in Gallipoli, Russia and France, and finished
at Cologne in January, 1919. lie is mar-
ried to an Australian girl, and if lie can
manage it liis future work is going to be in
the Commonwealth.
The Matrons’ Ball happened on Thursday
night in the St. Kilda Town Hall, and the
outside world jambed its nose against the
fence-rails and waited in the rain for the
usual momentary glimpse of the young man.
"The entrance had a great awning over the
carpeted steps; and inside the hall had been
made almost as cosy as a luxurious house.
The balconies were hidden by fringes of
old-gold satin. Ceiling lights were brought
down low and dressed in cheeky amber crino-
lines. Long festoons of extra lights in
skirts of purple and carmine looked like a
ballet in the air. The central lights, dripped
diamonds. Sassiety hunted out its biggest
ostrich feathers and set them in threes
around the room. Big panels painted with
Australian birds cosied up the walls to make
the ballroom look smaller. There were
acres of soft carpets everywhere except on
the dancing-floor. The matrons, roosting
under the balcony, ha-d easy-chairs and rugs
to rest their satin shoes on while they looked
with satisfaction on the result of their
labors. Each had concentrated on the sub-
ject of dress, and the result was impressive.
Correct white satin was prominent among
those who had studied Court journals. The
invitations were so exclusive that it prac-
tically amounted to a special audit of the
local* nobility. If you were not invited
then you are still a social sundowner.
The matrons were out to give the Prince
elbow-room and show him they were no mob.
The result was that the visitor moved always
in a magic circle of space. Groups would
melt politely away and leave him to the
matron whose turn it was. Once the isolated
youth made a determined sign to an equerry.
Each girl hoped she was the prize; but
Norman Brookes was the favored person,
and with him the Prince had an animated
yarn about tennis. Mrs. Norman Brookes
and Mrs. Ron Murray shared the first royal
dances after the inevitable lancers. A.D.C.
Spowers’s wife also had a cut in. The Prince
had space to prance and liberty to choose
partners; but he was too tired to enjoy his
belated freedom. So weary was he that they
bundled him off to sleep on the train after the
ball, so as to save him an early call in the
morning.
All'the Landale matrons, the Curries, the
Millers, the Falkiners and the Fairbairns
were represented. Others in the social battle-
line were the Grice and Allen dames, Mrs.
Everard Browne, the wives of the various
Chirnsides, the Bowes Kellys, Mrs. Harold
Grimwade, Mrs. Pom Greene, Mrs. Dunbar
Hooper, the Mitchell dame, Mrs. Sargood,
Mrs. Geoff Syme, Mrs. Staughton, the various
Brookes and the numerous Clarkes; Mrs.
Emmerton, of course, the Maudsley dame and
the Paynes. Then there were the Bridges of
Trawalla, Mrs. Byron Moore, the Lascelles
dames, the MacDonalds, the impressive Mac-
kinnon lady and Mrs. Clive Leonard.
Mayor Allen, of St. Kilda, looked on in a
dream. Never had the old Town Hall been
so pompously important.
The dullest and hungriest of all the Prince
shows was the cold garden party at Federal
Parliament House. The food ran out very
early, and late arrivals at the tables found
only bottles and heaps of fruit.
It looks as though the vice-regal Irvines
were inciting Sassiety to give a joyful wel-
come to the next imported Cocked Hat. In
connection with the private dance they
treated the Princeling to, Mrs. Irvine inti-
mated that there would be no admission for
press representatives, but that if the social
recorders were to come out in the afternoon
they might see the decorations and inter-
view the secretary. Some of the papers
spilt replies which the inexperienced hostess
isn’t likely to forget.
The Dix girl, who captured the Prince
partner at each ball, was not at the
matrons’ select whirl on Thursday. Pre-
sumably it was thought that Dixie had had
a fair innings.
The final ball at Government House on
Friday night was the last shriek in gorgeous
clothes. The guest arrived late. He had
been having his titles thrown at him all
day at shire halls in icy weather. There
was no reception at the ball, as everybody
present had been through the process a
dozen times over. i A plush rope was flung
around a sacred circle for the lancers, and
the mob pressed to the ringside like a stadium
crowd. Lady Helen piloted the Prince
through. The G.-G. blundered in a jovial
way. Billy Hughes looked agonised until
Edward made him laugh. Monash was the
only man who remembered all the moves;
but he is a tactician. There was a general
air of relief when the old measure was over
and the real dancing began.
The Prince danced a few one-steps ; but
the joy of life had been crushed out of
him.' The vim of his first shore-might danc-
ing was gone. He had a very bad cough
and was packed off early to bed. His
equerries, relieved of duty, danced vigor-
ously till the early hours. The royal cousin,
Mountbatten. danced several times with a
fascinating debutante, daughter of the Geof-
frey Symes, She was dressed with perfect
simplicity in white glac6. There was much
freak dressing among the youngsters. Wini-
fred Watson turned out in silk trousers with
a silver tunic. The youngest de Bavay girl
wore a crinoline of puffy pink frills. Norma
Armytage had her brocade built square at
the back. Miss Dix, who danced again with
the Prince, got into a startling silk of big
patterns in china-blue and white. Ex-
Speaker McDonald’s daughter was. simply
frocked in white. She gathered in con-
gratulations on her just-announced engage-
ment. The lucky man. Colonel Brinsmead,
was proudly at her elbow all the evening.
The Maoriland Mansons’ daughter was an-
other bud of the evening.
The Prince of Wales Cup was run on
Saturday in vile weather. An icy pelt of
rain on Friday night and all the morning
had made the going soft, and as the course
had to be saved for the racing there was no
picturesque drive up the straight. H.R.H.
just motored up to the terrace steps, where
Byron Moore handed over a gorgeous “ ’rec
card o’ th’ races,” and the Mackinnon led
him to the plush pen where the G.-G. party
waited. Lady Helen was muffled to the
eyes in furs, and had spared oue small fur
collar for her lord. Edward was a neat,
slim personage in tight-fitting grey tweed.
He dodged his keepers after lunch, and set a
brisk pace for Halsey, visiting both betting
paddock and jockeys’ room. Lunch in the
Prince’s room was a comfortable, warm
spread. Three lucky girls got in at the
special affair: Joan of the Fairbairns, Miss
Simpson and Miss Mandeville.
Edward the Next finished his Melbourne
programme "at Her Majesty’s on Saturday
night. The d.c. and boxes had been trans-
formed into an Eden with green climbing
things and yellow roses, while balloons at-
tached to the stall seats gave a Christmas-
party effect below. The chief guest arrived
with his composure in ruins after a loud re-
ception in the streets, and it was plain when
he was shown into George Tallis’s usual pen
that he would have welcomed a cave to hide
in. But he brightened up when audacious
Maggie Llickinson wirelessed a kiss, and he
roared with the throng at a genial quip aimed
at the “salary-snatchers.” The Prince
shared his box with the G.-G. and his lady.
The aides were in the adjoining enclosure,
whilst Excellency Irvine and party were put
on the other side. State Premier Lawson,
Priminister Hughes, lesser Ministers, as-
sorted officials and wives were stacked in
the d.c. For the purposes of the entertain-
ment the last scene of the revue was cut
out to make room for a trio of compli-
mentary tableaux, with loyal verses from
the mouth of Eardley Turner.
The officers and sailors of the Renown
had their last shore outing on Sunday,
when the Automobile Club ran 250 of them
down to Mount Martha, where the Gaud
Mayor gave them lunch on the covered
tennis-court. Mrs. Stein was hostess. After
lunch the Sabbath was broken with football.
Australia’s small band of novelists includes
no one more promising than Roy Bridges.
While toiling on
various stolid dailies,
he let loose his
imagination in half
a dozen capital tales
of adventure, and
now that he has left
the pressman’s round
larger quantities of
hearty, insurgent
iiction are pouring
forth. Bridges is
sodden with the his-
tory of this great
Commonwealth, and
there are memories
of Tassy’s early
days and the Bounty
mutiny in his two
most popular achieve-
ments, “The Fugi-
tive” and “The Bubble Moon.” But his big-
gest job to date is a study of the romance
of the Broke]} Hill I*ty., which occupied two
years of hard study and writing. The
accompanying view of Bridges by the Swiss
Studios appears to have been taken when
he was interviewing a publisher.
Adelaide’s social calendar:—
The races at Victoria Park on Saturday drew a
big crowd in sultry weather. It was a day of big
dividends. One fluffy young thing, provided with
£2 by father for her first day’s betting, landed
home with something over £O5.
Miss Jacob, of Tormore House, invited a number
of old scholars last week to meet Mrs. George Bryce,
Ida Brummitt and Eileen Shannon, all of whom have
lately returned from war-work abroad. Mrs. Bryce
did her bit at the War Office as correspondence clerk,
Ida Brummitt nursed on the Indian border during
the Afghan campaign, and Eileen was a ministering
angel in England and France.
Tl(ere has been a recent orgy of blackballing at
the Adelaide Club. Apparently at present anyone
with what are called “social aspirations” is banned,
while those with commercial aspirations are wel-
comed. There is a yell that election of members
should be left to a select committee, as in the local
women’s club.
The University lads gave their annual Black-and-
White dance on Friday night. The music and the
supper were excellent, and the boys chose as chap-
erones Mrs. Wood Jones, the recently-arrived wife
of a professor, and Mrs. Arthur Rymill, one of the
cheeriest of the young generation of matrons. It
was a very joyful affair.
Passed out in Adelaide on May 28, Mrs. Ellen
Ryan, for many years the best-known woman in the
N.T. For her was built the Hotel Victoria, repu-
tedly the coolest house in Darwin. Old Territorians
who remerhber the gay days when the late Charlie
Dashwood ruled at the Residency will regret the
death of a warm-hearted Irish-Australian.
Adelaide is so short of room that new arrivals of
unblemished respectability have had to seek a night’s
lodging in the cells. There is a proposal to let
patches of the park lands for tents against the
arrival of Wales.
The Prince dropped in at two private
Tooraketty dances —one at the Everard
Brownes’, the other at the Fred Paynes’.
There was no formality. He just “cut the
Prince stuff” and was a jolly youngster let
out of school.
Lieut.-Governor Irvine’s daughter has
measles. She had to be quarantined from
her own Prince dance at Stonnington. There
were some fears for the Prince, for he had
danced with Miss Irvine a while before the
spots appeared.
Opposition-leader Tudor and his wife stood
round proudly at the Government House
Ball. The Prince danced twice with the
little Tudor daughter.
The worst blow the Royal dignity has suf-
fered in Melbourne came from a box of
chocolates thrown by a hysterical girl. It
hit Edward on the nose and made it bleed.
The Prince could take no revenge—had to
merely bury his face and his remarks in a
handkerchief.
The arrival of a K.C.M.G. for Speaker
Johnson of the Reps, found that unhappy
citizen worrying over his wife. Tim poor
lady fell ill the night before the Prince
arrived, and Johnson passed several functions
to stay by the sick-bed.


A SURE way to identify a good
Tv Shirt is to look for the name
PELACO on it.
When you find THAT mark
of quality your shirt-troubles
are over.
.U/V at your Mercer's for Pelaco Shirts ,
Cottars and, Pyjamas
KSS
r
i
\
o
v


UMRLES
NEIDSIE®
Vintage 1906
QlfflPM
HE PLUS ULTRA
S 'l.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
“Join the 'National Roads Associa-
tion (N.8.W.) ”
FOR YOUR FORD.
Endorsement of the L. and R.
Auxiliary Oiler as a valuable fitment
to a Ford Car by one owner would
prove nothing.
Endorsement by one hundred owners
would prove little.
But when thousands of Ford owners
throughout Australia consider this
patent saves their Connecting-rod
Bushes, and Reduces their Lubricating
Oil Bills, surely it is worth your
knowing more about it.
Why not write us to-day for fuller
particulars?
Your local garageman will also tell
you of its utility.
WHOLESALE ONLY.
BennettS BarkeH Limited
“The Traders’ Service House,”
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
YOU Can Enjoy Perfect Health.
0 fgj
& fgj
ASTHMA, INFLUENZA, HAY FEVER and ALL
BRONCHIAL TROUBLES are miraculously cured
by the aid of the
Mears’ Aural Nebulizer
which aims directly at the seat of the trouble,
affords instant relief, and very quickly effects
the absolute and lasting CURE.
Every day we receive fresh evidence of the
wonderful curative powers of the Nebulizer
from happy people who have benefited from its
usage. Call and witness a demonstration, or
write for particulars of our ABSOLUTE
GUARANTEE to refund your money in full
if you are not perfectly satisfied. •
AVe would not dare make this statement
were we not trading on strictly honest lines,
and thoroughly convinced of the exceptional
qualities of this treatment.
The Guarantee Proves Its Bonafides.
The Mears Company (Inc.), Dept. 12,
T. M. ROA', Representative,
Bernard’s Building, 387 George Street, Sydney.
fgj
fj
fĝj
<7 fj
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
There is a growing Bolshevik element in
Sydney society. It is confined to the girls,
and of course it has nothing to do with in-
dustrialism. Many are almost desperate at
the Kaiserish selfishness of the matrons of
mature years who monopolise eligible men
to the detriment of the marriageable. Owing
to the war many girls have lost five years
of dinners, dances and races, representing
many hundreds of matrimonial opportuni-
ties ; and now that the horror is at an end
they find grandmothers, or those who ought
to be grandmothers, practically kidnapping
the girls’ legitimate prey. Man’s traditional
readiness to truckle to those who pour food
and drink into him is, of course, the explana-
tion of the triumphs of the aged; but they
are none the less embittering to the neglected
young.
The Moiseiwitseli Chopin recital saw the
old palpitant masses of listeners. Nor, was
Ben no’s audience confined to the leisured
musical. These others are probably brick-
layers ; and these are women who earn their
own millinery and fur necklets. And rows
of schoolgirls listening intently. Even the
stage supported an overflow, coated and
furred and occasionally rubbing one chilled
ankle against another. And born under the
musician’s fingers large and languorous gold
moths floated through terraces of amber
light. Daisy Kennedy caught and reflected
the color of husband Benno's music, a slim,
gold-gleaming figure in perfect tailorings.
Beatrice Griffiths Swinson sat in the front
row, recognising each encore without furrow-
ing her brow. Benno says that the matinde
takings reached his London record, made in
Queen’s Hall; and as Sydney prices were
lower, the delighted, grave-faced pianist de-
monstrates that the attendance must have
been larger.
Daisy and Benno are planning a conquest
of Jerusalem. They are aching to give a
season in the Holy City, into which Benno's
compatriots are said to be pouring by the
thousand. Daisy says the most wonderful
audience she ever had was made up of Rus-
sians in the East End of London ; and Benno
says his most wonderful audience was the
one he had in Sydney two Saturdays ago;
which is quite a neat compliment for the
two sides of the family to pay each other.
Tanya Benita Moiseiwitseli, aged five, dip-
lomatically enthuses with each parent in
turn.
The artistic couple found their greatest
Sydney friends, outside professional circles,
in the medical Dan Kellys, of Kirribilli.
Mrs. Dan, who was the musical Miss Coffee,
talked art with Daisy, while the doctor and
Herschel Harris and Benno kept the billiard-
table working overtime. The pianist, like
Paderewski; makes a brilliant break.
Alice Turner, dress artist of Mark Foy’s,
married .T. .T. Smith, of the firm and of
Colebrook, Double Bay, at St. Joseph’s,
Woollahra, during the week; and the girls
from the establishment had made the quiet
little church a bower for the bride to trail
her delicate pink-and-gold draperies through.
Gold tissue and lace and white ospreys made
up the hat that crowned the smiling face,
A pear-shaped diamond dangled from a
platinum chain around her throat; in her
ears a pair of sparklers that will make
duchesses level the lorgnette of envy when-
ever Mjs. Smith appears in their midst.
Five bridesmaids and Chester Foy saw the
pair safely through; and revivers were
served at the Australia, where the drawing-
room was replaced by a garden of roses and
peach blossoms, with Mrs. Edward Ward
acting as hostess.
“She deserves all the chivalry and the de-
votion we can show her.” That is the atti-
tude of Dr. Taylor Young towards the
Digger nurse. The doctor is lately back
from France and Southall, the latter the
near-to-London hospital where the Diggers’
double-amputation cases were looked after
by great-hearted Australian women. “No
Digger was braver than the nurse,” says the
little doctor with the twinkling eyes and
the rosy cheeks, something like a slim edi-
tion of Mr. Pickwick, and he tells of winter
nights in the war-hospitals in France when
the mud floors were 30 and 40 degrees below
freezing-point and a quarter of an hour’s
duty had to be followed by ten minutes’
violent exercise. But the sisters didn’t
shirk even when their feet and ankles lost
their outline through chilblains and frost-
bite; nor did a little nurse shirk (she’s
in charge of one of the war-homes in Syd-
ney now) when three hospital huts in which
she was attending were blown up one after
another on the same night. When No. 1
went she carried on in No. 2, and when
No. 2 w r ent she looked after her boys in
No. 3. The Wentworth, where the doctor
and Mrs. Taylor Young are staying, saw a
party the other night, when invitations were
issued to all the Sydney boy and girl pals
of the Taylor Young sailor-boy who has
just reached his 21st birthday to come and
drink his health at his native end of the
earth.
Those of you who spin and knit can be
of service to “old Stumpy”—Stumpy, who
never complains, but goes about his job of
learning to make leather goods and carpen-
tering, and grins as cheerily as when be
was the forward wing in a rep. team. Miss
Farmer, of the Ited Cross Stores, Rand-
wick, wants a supply of 500 stump socks
to keep these boys going. Mrs. Blaxland,
Red Cross Spinning Depot, 5 Wynyard-
street, will give you any information vou
need about it.
“Bluey” Carter, one of the double-ampu-
tation cases from Southall and Hut 10,
Randwick, married his little bit of Ireland
one day last week. Her name is Maisie
Madden, and when she visited Bluey’s cob-
bers the day before the event the boys all
gathered about her and declared that the
silkrskinned slip of a thing was a decent
piece of the Quid Sod to be transplanted to
Hay, where Bluey is to start in the pro-
duce line after the honeymoon. Maisie
came all the way from Ireland to marry
her legless man, and it is no wonder that
the boys were loud in their demonstrations
ot congratulations as they handed over the
solid-silver, teaspoons, the surprise wedding
present of the ward. The V.A.’s saw that
there was plenty of confetti, and the hut
voted Bluey and his girl good fellows.
This is the photograph of Victoria Allen,
creator of the Gum Leaf alphabet and Kin-
defgarten bloc k s.
Six-sided these, two
taken up with the
nice, curly gum-leaf
ABC and big plain
lettering; a third
and a fourth gay
with birds and
beasts th a t have
Australia for their
birth-place; while
sides five and six
are occupied b y
picture-puzzles o f
kookies and mag-
pies and kangaroos.
And now Miss Allen
has built up read-
ing lessons with
these blocks—les-
sons telling of the
habit of the fluffy bear and the emu and
all their brethren.
Having recovered slightly from the financial
embarrassments that war freights flung them
into, the P. and O. people gave a little
cheerio party to celebrate the Naldera’s first
visit to Sydney. In good, superior Anglo-
Indian style Matron Naldera had issued
two sets of cards, one lot to the nobility
and the notability to partake of the dinner;
the second to Mr., Mrs. and Miss Suburbs
to come to the dance afterwards. The boat,
like some stunning Goddess of Plenty, had
flung out red carpets the wharf length as
an earnest of what was to follow after the
bunting-enclosed, palm-grown and fairy-lit
gangways had been negotiated. The Gordon-
Weschfis and skipper Llewelyn greeted the.
guests; Mrs. Wesclid very handsome in drap-
ings of rose-pink charmeuse. The guests
were paired off and found a whole big,
roomy cabin waiting for each couple, where
the last flick of powder could be given to
the nose and the 0.8.E.’s adjusted. Their
Exes, brought their Lamb ; but, indeed, the
placed overflowed with plenty. Champagne
ran like a small mountain torrent, and of
the fragments there were not left five bottles
full; while the beautiful dome and gallery
brooded like some wistful ivory-winged bird
over the feeding of this vast, well-fed, gor-
geously-clothed multitude.
At 9 o’clock those invited only to the
dance began to arrive in spite of the whist-
ling westerly that snapped viciously at taf-
feta and georgette skirts. Place and Power
and Pride and Prejudice alike bared their
anatomy to the blast with a bravery not
excelled by those who served in the North
Sea. Of the just-returned Mrs, George
Fivers was pearl-like in oyster-grey sim-
plicity; Mrs. Leonard Dangar (who was
Mary Anderson) wore green and swathed an
apparently wounded head in a silver-tissue
bandage; Mrs. Willie Collins was as hand-
some as her own Pompadour satin frock;
and somebody remarked about her Ex. that
she looked as handsome as a Norwegian
night.
Diamonds in bucketsful had been showered
upon the multitude, and Mrs. Anthony Hor-
dern (the crutch replaced by a cane) and
Mrs. Denison brought their pearls; Mrs.
Floyd’s wild-rose cheek added distinction to
a Parma-violet Paquin model; good-looking
Mrs. Gibbs in green swathings was like
the figure on a Grecian urn. Miss Eadith
Walker, the Knoxes, the municipal knights
and their ladies and Owen Cox were among
the hungry bidden to the feast.
Ruth Beale sends a coo-ee from N’York:
The women are wearing the most vivid-colored
hats—jade-green, scarlet, emerald, orange, terra
cotta. Cloths show no sign of getting back to
small patterns; the new foulards are as big pat-
terned as ever and often very handsome.
Good news concerning Dorothy Ilelinrich
continues to stream in. Though laying no
claim to be a Melba or a Butt, Dorothy has
caused a flutter in English musical circles,
as much on account of the production of her
voice as because of the voice itself. The
Boosey promenade concerts proved a
triumph, and since then she has toured the
provinces, waking even Edinburgh to en-
thusiasm. The greatest honor was when Sir
George Ilenschel, her teacher, offered to play
two of her accompaniments at her first
recital. “There has been so little left for
me to do,” is his one complaint about the
intelligent voice with the Ivirkby Lunn
quality.
The big white-and-gold ballroom of the
Wentworth, rather dreary-looking these cold
winter afternoons, is being got ready for the
Prince. The gallery is to be reserved for
the officers of the ward-room of the
Renown; so H.R.H. can drop in casual-
like to be bewildered by the brilliant spec-
tacle below. Everybody is engaging tables
for the week; so all things being even,
Sydney may yet have its Gertie Dix.
Mention of the Deas Thomsons calls to mind
that two relations of that impeccable family
are with the Prince, Dudley North mar-
ried Eglantine Campbell, grand-daughter of
the Deas Thomsons (and the romance of
the mother whom she predeceased by three
days is still remembered by sentimental Syd-
ney) : and Colonel Grigg. who guides the
Princely fountain-pen, is another close rela-
tive of the family that reigned socially and
morally in Elizabeth Bay House. Grigg,
a former Overseas editor of the Times, is
a descendant also of early Governor Bourke.
From a Brisbane balcony :—
The Golden Casket seems to have become a State
institution. The other day £12,500 w as handed
over from the last one, to be divided amongst the
hospitals, and the next will be drawn early in July.
It seems that there are thousands of citizens ready
to risk 5s. in a sweep who would never dream of
giving 6d. direct to a hospital.
The Mater Misericordiae Hospital Ball held last week
should give the funds of a fine institution a great lift.
The decorations were mostly artificial flowers made
by the patients. Mrs. Lennon looked in and was
handed a bouquet of roses.
The Yacht Club Ball this year is to be one of
the hops of the season. It is to be held in the big
wool store at Bulimba, where a couple of thousand
couples can whirl without jostling. The ball is to
be on July 16.
Marjorie Cuppaidge, youngest chick of Dr. and
Mrs. Cuppaidge, Gympie, is to be married this month
to Capt. Jack Meehan, M.C.
Mr. and Mrs. E. Steele, Aramac, gave a dinner-
party dance last Saturday, with Ross Smith as the
guest of honor.
During the Renown’s stay here Lieut.
Billyard-Leake RJ is going to tell how
he sank H.M.S. Iphegema at Zeebrugge
Ihe lecture wril be at the Theatre Royal
for the benefit of the public-school boys. The
lecturer is one of the few Australians in
the British Navy- his mother was a Sydney
heiiess of 30 years back —and is threatened
with a great future as a sailor. The family
home is Harefield, which was given over
to the Diggers for a hospital during the
war. b
May Moore has caught Mrs. Hogg
in her motor-ambu-
lance uniform. The
lady with the good
profile is YVestralian ;
but being in Lon-
don when the war
began, she started in
first as secretary to
the Duchess of
Westminster’s hos-
pital. with whose
staff she afterwards
went to France;
then as motor-
driver she took her
chances close up to
the lines; and, later
on, London and the
limb-
making workshops
claimed all her time.
The Crown-street Women’s Hospital
wants £50,000 to build an addition to be
known as “The Prince of Wales Wing.” (Tut,
tut, he’s a bachelor and only 26, anyway.)
This Letter’s Australian heart will go out
some day to the daring benefactor who will
provide a Sentimental Bloke wing, or
something of that kind.
Ross Smith’s next great fly is to be an all-
round-the-world affair in a Vickers-Vimy.
The monster mechanical bird is to carry id
engines, to be scrapped one by one as they
become worn out or damaged beyond repair]
The Firm advertises for “Prince’s Night.”
at Her Majesty’s, an “impressive pageant,”
wherein Flo Young is to represent the Spirit
of Empire; Gladys Cole will be Australia,
and slim Nell Stewart Maoriland. Tickets
are _ selling at something over two pounds
a piece, and half the takings go to Sydney
Hospital.
Mr. and Mrs. Ulric A. Blacket have just
garaged their car, in which they have honey-
mooned over many a beauty spot of N. S.
W ales.. Mabel Ada (Mabs) Fletcher, the
bride, is second daughter of Henry Fletcher,
an old Bulletin contributor and author of
“Dads W ayback.” Ulric is second son of
Arthur Blacket, of Alucan Glen, and lie
was the son of Australia’s first architect.
On his own account Ulric Arthur went to
Sinai with the Light Horse, and his dis-
charge shows four years’ service.
In an arum-lily setting the pretty bride
of the week, Airlie Chisholm, only daughter
of the medical Chisholms, of Woollahra,
stood at St. Andrew’s altar while Arch-
deacon D’Arcy Irvine made her one with
John Leonard Keep. White satin and Lim-
erick lace and a sheaf of lilies clad her for
the event; and three bridesmaids in Dutch
blue with a golden aura of wattle helped to
brighten the dulness of the day. Ernest
Carruthers and Roy Treacy were in other
parts; and 180 supers as wedding guests
tripped it in the Wentworth ballroom.
On Saturday evening, June 19, Lawrence
Cecil, M.C., who latterly played Jerry to
Sara Allgood’s “Peg o’ My Heart,” will give
a Shakspearean recital at the King’fs Hall.
The young man has been under actor-knight
Benson’s management for years, and his
repertoire contains all the rOles which that
exacting master of the Shakspearean school
would demand of one in his - stock company.
Modest Ms., 25., or Is. will open the doors
to you. /
The vestibule of the Town Hall was the
meetifig-plaCe named by little Mayoress Fitz-
gerald for all those interested in keeping
baby limbs warm and cosy during the hard
winter days that are yet to come. A com-
mittee was formed to open up sewing guilds,
of which Mrs. Sidney Herring and Mrs.
Taylor are the secretaries. Mayor Fitz-
gerald and Deputy-Townclerk Layton are
to keep the cash-account.
A happy addition to the Seamen’s Mis-
sion is the St. Andrew’s Guild made up of
workers from the old Soldiers’ Welcome.
Mrs. Arthur Scrivener, of the apple-pies,
just back from Brisbane, and Mrs. Williams
are chaperones of this bunch.
Little Mrs. Arthur Scrivener, whose bad
health took her away to Brisbane last month,
is now packing up in a hurry to get to
India and her soldier-boy who is on the
sick-list. The nice-looking youngster is the
only Aussie aide-de-camp to the Viceroy of
that distressful country. Did his long, long
bit of war-service first, too.
Quite the belle of the Naldera dinner was
Matron Kellett, of Randwic-k, in her nursing
uniform of grey brightened with her scarlet
cape and her Royal Red Cross, which wps
only one of many decorations. Her soft
white hair and rosy cheeks looked none the
worse for the active service which her dress
proclaimed.
Just back from England, and staying at
the Wentworth, Mrs. 11. E. Cohen, wife of
the late Justice Cohen. The little lady with
the marvellous hats and frocks still mourns
her son killed on active service. Among her
sartorial treasures is a beautiful fur cape
that not even the most ruthless profiteer’s
missus can touch.
If ex-members or their next of kin of
the Bth Light Trench Mortar Battary will
send addresses to Gapt. W. H. Hind, Sverge-
street, Mosman, enclosing stamp for postage,
he will forward a copy of the Battery’s
complete nominal roll.
Died last week, at 73, Mrs. Waddy, who
leaves as her legacy to Australia two
daughters, Mrs. N. Pockley, of Killara, and
Mrs. Mackenzie, of Hornsby—and four
notable sons, among them Canon Waddy, of
Jerusalem, one-time headmaster of the King’s
School.
Flora Sandes has arrived in Australia, and
will lecture to us on her active service with
the Serbs. She is a sister of Johnny Sandes,
of the Daily Telegraph, now feeding us
with sticky stuff about the Princelet from
his cabin aboard the Renown. Flora
Sandes first went to Serbia as a V.A. in
1914, and not long after joined up with its
stricken army as a ranker, and later was
given a commission. Serbia thinks so much
of her that its Government refused to de-
mobilise this unique soldier, but gave her a
year’s furlough instead, so that she might
come to Aussie and tell us all about it. By
the way, a Digger who managed a visit to
the canteen in Serbia furnished by Aussie
funds noticed one thing missing, and that
was merely the six-starred flag of the people
who were providing the money.
Kathleen Ussher sends a line from the
City of the Angels (and the Movies) in Cali-
fornia, where she is now peacefully
established after war service in England,
Macedonia and Gibraltar. At the Gib. she
was in charge of a section of_ the Wrens
(otherwise the Woman’s Royal Naval Ser-
vice) attached to the Admiral’s staff.


I = >
gjf
1853
HARDY BROTHERS LTD
JEWELLERS.
Wristlet Watches.
The Company’s Wristlet Watches are fitted
with highest-grade Swiss Lever movements,
and are guaranteed reliable timekeepers.
.-AT:
i&s
Reliable Silver Watch, with high-grade movement, fitted with Suede
Strap and Silver Buckle,
£4 5 0
Oct. Gold Watch, high-grade movement, fitted with Suede Strap and
Gold Buckle.
£7 0 0
W
15ct. Gold Watch, tonneau shape, fitted on Moire Silk Band, with
Patent Gold Snap,
£lO 0 0
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY*
JI6-JIB Queen Street,
Brisbane.
London,
298 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
ƒgjf
Have You Secured a
SNAPSHOT of
"The Smiling
Prince ?
Do you want the Best Possible
Results in Development and
Printing-off your Plate or Film ?
The Development and Finishing of Amateurs’
Negatives is work in which we specialise.
Our workrooms are equipped with every modern appliance for the success-
ful and speedy execution of all classes of photographic work; and every
order, large or small, receives expert attention. We guarantee the very
best results possible from each exposure.
DO NOT SPOIL YOUR NEGATIVES.
They Cannot Be Replaced.
Our Charges are Moderate. We Develop, Print-off and Enlarge, as re-
quired, in the shortest possible time. You can obtain our scale of charges
at any of our branches.
TREATMENT OF RESIDUES.
Our Metallurgical Laboratories are equipped with the latest appliances for the scientific
treatment of
JEWELLERS’, DENTISTS’ & OTHER METAL-WORKERS’
RESIDUES, SWEEPS & WASTE PRODUCTS.
Every order is executed under the personal supervision of a qualified chemist from the
laboratories of Messrs. Johnson and Sons, London, assayers to his Majesty’s Govt., the
Bank of England, Council of India, etc., and clients can depend upon getting the best
possible results from every parcel. A ’phone message or letter addressed to any of our
establishments will receive prompt attention.
lIP
Photographic anti Cinematographic Merchants .
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 George Street, Sydney. 266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane. 43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
144 Queen Street, Auckland; 42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: Booth and Trafalgar Streets, Annandale.
?oup Guide
depge
\jifL
v~
mi
d
OnLveryfara or
Every noil o£~
GENUINE
Trade
i
m
fox
d:
PlapA
GUARANTEED DYE
.PURE WOOL.
BRITISH SERGE
You’ll find the “Fox” Brand-
Look for it always. It’s the
Proof that you are being
supplied with the ■
World’s Best Serge


/\ GREAT Australian
Garden.
c-rnSr. EJNES'S APPLE COUNTRY ON EARTH—
ttav E S R ? 11S ND VEGETABLES TO PERFF.C-
Perfect s anc > climate and certain rainfall
. oucle the ideal pursuit of agriculture.
secure an orchard in any stage of development or
pioduction on terms to suit.
K. E. BEDFORD, Stanthorpe, Queensland.
Learn to Draw.
ƒgj
The above ,
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. it
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
■>y DARKY
WESTON, Austra-
lia s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by rhe
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN."
the harry J. WESTON
Postal iVchool of Drawing,
208 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
.GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Room 5, 2nd Floor, 227 Collins St., Melbourne
r\
'/S
REX the DUPLICATOR
Makes 100 Copies in a Few Minutes.
Either Writing, Typewriting, Draw-
ings, Letters, Circulars, Music, etc.
Works like a £lO machine. Saves its
cost first time used. Replaces all
old-fashioned methods such as gela-
tines, graphs, stencils, etc. Copies
dean, sharp; rich in color.
PH 25/ - Foolscap size. Postage
1/6 other States. Add exchange.
H. DIBBS & CO.,
Dept. A, Box 2065 G.P.0., Sydney.
gfjg
ĝ
ğ
ġfS'
.
ABBEY
SHOES!
Select year Shoes according to QUALITY
—not price—that's the way to Ensure
Satisfaction—and it’s always the most
economical in the long run.
We feature a Highest-grade Patent
Oxford Bal., Dull Calf Legs.
PRICE 657-
aii Patent 1 ... 67/6
Tan 60/-
Jn Half-sizes, Narrow, Medium and Wide
Fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Iffĝj any illustration appearing in Tuts
I-JtXfgLKTlN takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price fur, it.
fgjfgj
- ■ ■ =-- -
Men’s Stout 2/6
Light 2 -
Ladies' - 1/3
(Heels only
per pair
FROM ALL
BOOTMEN.
Man ufmcturers —
PHILLIPS'
PATENTS Lti.,
London, Etig.
JJJ THIN Rubber plates, with raised studs.
to be attached on top of ordinary soles and
heels, giving complete protection from wear.
' MILITARY'
SOLES AND HEELS
make one pair of boots
last the time of three
Cjl THEY impart smoothness to the tread,
give grip, and prevent slipping. Keep
feet dry in wet weather. Ideal for golf
Fortify
your
Boots!
A» worn by
thousands of
Au st r ali an
Officers and
Men Overseas.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:—
N.R. WATER AND QUEENSLAND. G WILLIAMSON. 46. Wentworth Avenue
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA. J. M ROHAN. 262, Post Offloe Place, Melbourne
S. A w. AUSTRALIA, C. M. RANSFORD, 22. Waymouth Street. Adelaide
Sydney.
Chemist*,
two size*.
S//
O
s
E
AS
C
K
All Travelling should
Guard against
SEA SICKNESS
Mothersill’s Seasick Remedy
is invaluable. It positively
prevents and cures Sea, Air
and Train Sickness.
NO BAD AFTER EFFECTS.
GUARANTEED OR MONEY REFUNDED.
MOTHERBILL REMEDY CO. LTD.
Aberdeen House, 204 Clarenoe St., Sydney
Testified by Royalty. Nobility, Army, Navy, and
C. 15 Airmen all over the world
ROSS’ Celebrated
* v Racing &. Field Classes
are procurable at the leading jewellers in each large city
throughout the Commonwealth. For years past the British
Government took the entire output of the great Ross factories
for Army and Navy uses. “Ross” Binoculars proved in extensive
tests against all other makes of glasses to be the BEST, and so
were adopted for the British Army and Navy authorities.
They are retailed throughout Australia at Ross’ Catalogue
English prices, plus only duty and importing expenses.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.
Australian Agents for Ross Ltd.,
23 (Si 25 Hunter Street, Sydney.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up,
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
bbnfgjtg
FIGURES—CASH ONLY.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL, £500,000.
Fire Insurances effected on all classes of
3 Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture (\,c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks ,4°.. Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident end Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN lIAIGH, General Manager.
lo the large army of sufferers afflicted with
Rheumatism, Gout, Caiculosis, Migraine, Eczema,
Obesity and Acid Dyspepsia.
Take courage, for URODONAL dissolves uric acid as easily as
warm water dissolves sugar, and eliminates it without your being
aware of it.
Therefore, cast aside sticks and crutches, and straighten yourself as in the davs
of youth and health. URODONAL will even permit you to eat meat and other
favorite dishes to your heart’s content. Salicylate, colcMcum and iodides (by
means of which temporary relief is procured at the cost of disastrous after-effects')
are entirely superseded by URODONAL. Thanks to URODONAL, the obese
regain their normal proportions, the weary take on a new lease of life, and the
worn society woman regains and retains a clear and healthy complexion, through
the blood-purifying properties, of this preparation. URODONAL is the great
discovery of the century, and is a boon to all; it is the secret of perpetual youth,
the means of salvation for the thousands of victims of uricmma.
PREPARED BY ETABLISSEGMENTS CHATELAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 10/9.
1 rom all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australia.
Booklet containing Medical Opinions can he obtained from Cliatelain’i
AUSTRALIAN AGENCY; 352 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
[1
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
So notice (except of a hostile character') will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MSS- So
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stumps accompany.
Old Suxun : The writing i.s good, but the
interest is too local. If you’re writing at Cape
Howe, always ask yourself whether it will interest
the man at Cape Vork C.Il.: Thanks. Glad to
hear again... .Almanac: Goes over well-worn ground.
. ...Hupat: Sorry, but if we explained why we threw
things out there would be no room to throw things
in,.. .Diamond Dink: Perhaps so; but he was born
on that land, anyway L.B.W.: Yes; but where
did the Im.ustieatkd Nkwn _ ‘‘portrait” come from :
Chanloo (or something like that): Napoo
Adelaide: Aou call him ‘‘the well-known soldier-
politician.’ Better make it politician-soldier....
C.H.S.: Afraid it wouldn't. For instance, we know
one man who would be sure to vote for Billy Hughes.
His front name is William M.E.C.: Best way is
to cut out your pars, and paste on a slip of paper.
Wiite alongside date of issue, page and column.
Post to Accountant... Morna: Yes, go ahead....
Oliver B.: “Our Fellow Man” does it: —
. ...A.J.vv.: Kot bad verse, but covering old ground
in a sorrowful way D.L.S.: Very bad verse
Alan 0. M.: “My Hong,” “Lyric” and “Dawn-Song”
miss; the other has a chance.... The Comet: Your
verse will have to grow up a bit Proteus: “in-
vocation” tramps along the old >beat Kolnias:
“The Reason” is too thin A.II.F.: Too many
words to the grain of fresh statement... .II.G.:
(Melb.) : They don’t do it G.G.B.: No use
A.L.M.: Told simply in a quarter of the space it
would have been worth while. You can’t be too
direct, too natural H.B. (Waterloo): It’s very
slight; and that phrase “anent the glory” finishes
it. A lot of writers go anenting in prose, but we
cant stand it in verse. .. .C.L.: Sorry we can’t ask
°. ld “ Joe ” in to take a seat. ,..8eb Emm: “Gal-
lipoli” doesn’t look good in that verse... .H.W.S.:
Insomnia” misses... .3,0.B.: Cheer up, cheer up!
Tate’s Divvy” and “Aftermath” are dismal repeti-
tions of things everybody knows too well Recip.
Cyn.: “What it was all about, really I hadn’t the
faintest idea.” And on that basis of lack of under-
standing you started to construct the comment!
D.C. (Lower Mitcham) : It loses itself before it gets
anywhere. .. .Jack T.: They follow old commonplace
lines B.A.J.: Blank verse must be a lot better
than that. .. .L.P.J.: “A Trick Worth Knowing” is
a bit too small to entertain either the public or the
cricket lover M. J.C.: Not the sort of thing we
care for E.R.N.: It isn’t good enough I.R.M.:
If blank verse goes here at all it must have distinc-
tion. .. .Colin B.: There is no joy in that loose
stuff Mirza: Not enough in it W.W.II.: Too
long to quote as a shocking example.. . .Sebratic N.:
Rotten.... Tas M.: The verse doesn’t carry the idea.
Dan o’ the Dale: No thrill in it Miss B.:
Nothing in the “Fable.” F.E.W.: No Umpty:
Lame, pretentious and empty C.N. (Herberton) :
It deserves better handling.. .Peter the Second : There’s
a yarn in that if you would take the pains to tell it.
. ...H.F.W.: Try it somewhere else C.O.T.: They
don’t get near. . . .A.H.B. : It’s a dull sermon on the
wrong text Telby: The fact that the buttons came
off is hardly of national interest.... Mary S.: No
market for those goods here C.M.L.: The old idea
of sympathy for Louis and Marie Antoinette as the
background of a tale has been worked to death....
F.L.C.: It’s a cheerless statement... .G.D.S.: “Bar-
ber’s Shop” might have been a lot brighter.. .Curra
M.: Frail as the wintry shadow of a cobweb
W. J.D.: “Venus” is clever in spots ; it cries for more
work. And don’t try to rhyme “thought” and
“sport” A.B.P.: Not up Paul M.: “Song”
and “Cockleshell” don’t get near. .. .Dorothy F.:
Shockingly bad Jaokin : Two stanzas:—
Tell me not of old Australia
Whether it be black or white,
Give us a new Australia
With purer laws and clearer light.
Let us join the march of nations,
Foremost in the fighting line,
With men of other ranks and stations
Leaving obsolete views behind.
. .. .N.y.JI.: Not “Kosciusko” size.... lone F.: Com-
monplace and bumpy... .D.F. (Whangarei) : It tries
to rhyme “calm” with “charm” and supplies ideas
to n atch.... The Exile : The idea isn’t strong enough
to get through without the help of better verse....
Shun Feign: Old commonplaces in poor verse....
W.E.K.: No use.... Cinderella Lucerne-Hay: It
misses, but we’ll be glad to hear again... .John G.:
We’ve gazetted a close season for “Welcomes” of
that sort F.G.H.S.: It’s a marvel how a dozen
lines can say so little.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.S.: The flapper is snappy because you’ve drawn
an uncomfortable sofa. The staring johnnie has
been boiled down... . A.L.: You’re fumbling now,
but there’s promise in your line. .. .P.G.W.: The
severed heads are not bad, but they are travelling
with a warmed-up chestnut.... Gordon: Your snaky
vampire with the cigarette is an amateur, or else
her corsets have burst... .W.A.H.: Feeble joke
fainted in our arms. If it, revives it will be sent
home in a cab. .. .O.E.McC.: The young fashion-
plater wouldn't ask the village idiot the time. He
would have his own wristlet watch. .. .R.T.: Two
limp and slinky maidens talking bosh.... F.W.: Is
the father going mad because the infant’s head is
too big ?.. .. F.C.K.: Your pen trembles and makes a
mess of the paper. Draw firm and practise for
10 years. .. .J.L.B.: Can't discern any suggestion.
It’s merely a bad drawing.
“Barney”: “Gago Highfli” (B. 27/5/’2O)
says “aviators in France noted a tendency
in their machines to turn to the right,
especially at high altitudes, and on crossing
the equator they found the tendency was
to the left.” This deflection is due to the
earth’s rotation, and has been mathemati-
cally investigated by Ferrel and others, who
deduce the law that all bodies moving in
any direction in the Northern Hemisphere
have a tendency to be deflected to the right
and vice versa in the Southern Hemisphere.
Are we never to know the reason why
That our leaders are so unjust;
To never think, or to sigh,
To take all, to leave one the crust?
See, see how they are making a name 1
What will the taxpayers say?
Are they to cruel Australia’s fame
Out of the hard-worker’s pay ?


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-ae-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads ana
private Bathrooms.
' Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding _ sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yasemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JUNE 16,
SONOMA.
10,QUO Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regularly to:
TWEED RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Byron Bay and the beautiful Tweed River.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
ilate liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TOUR FARES.—Sydney-Brisbane, via
Byron Bay; Ist, £6/16/-; 2nd, £4/16/6. Sydney-
Brisbane, via Grafton: Ist, £6/16/-; 2nd, £4/7/6.
For particulars apply :
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
Banking;,, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A.; lion. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; lion. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager : J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches' throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to .lime 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 (I
Paid-up Capital . . . . .. 770,127 10 0
Reserve Fund . . . - • • • ■ 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit, Stock 3,091,669 4 6
All new business since IS'.IS specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; .lames Love, Esq.;
W. 11. Hart, Esq.; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
IIICAI) OFFICE ... BRISBANE
Brunches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, Bouth Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up ~.£1,198,679
Reserve Fund . ... £160,000
Directors : HERBERT It. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman ;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; Hon.
F. JAGG SMITH, M.L.C. ; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
asd at 157 Places Throughout, New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £629,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking business.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
Shipping,
etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N,Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, June 24, 3 p.m.
R.M.S. TAHITI, July 16.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World —the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona. Yellowstone Park. Niagara Falls, etc.
Tofua, from Wellington, July 15.
Connecting Steamer from Sydney, July 8.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
I fgjhfj
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
White Star Line
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Australia to London and Liverpool via
South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THE MIS TO CUES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
MIUTIADES 8,000 tons
MARATHON 8,000 tons
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons;
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £96 to England, and from £56 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £36 to £44 to England. From £l9/10/-
to £24/10/- to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wilis and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Pliability
Established 1817
Directors:
- £4,765,700
- 3,275,000
- 4,765,700
£12,806,400
The Hon. Sir Charles IC. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, l'.sq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
351 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonweal JBanh ot HustraKa
HEAD OFFICE SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking* Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2782 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
War Service Homes, as Agent for the Commissioner
(A special Department in each Capital City)
JAMES KELL,
Deputy Governor
1920
DENISON MILLER,
Governor
Shipping:.
lift
Osaka ShosenKaisha
(O.S.K. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service Manila,
Hong Kong, .Japan and the East. Tran-
shipment cargo accepted for all Eastern
ports, Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhipping at Japan.
BUSHU MARU, sailing middle
June.
KUNAJIRI MARU, sailing middle
July.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
of Australia,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
40 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: City 4166, Six Lines.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide.
INTERSTATE PASSENGER SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE.
FOR BRISBANE.
PORT ALMA, MACKAY, BOWEN JETTY, TOWNS-
VILLE JETTY and CAIRNS (transhipping at
Brisbane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and
Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
♦Omits Bowen and tranships at Townsville for ports
as far as Cairns.
tCalls at Brisbane, Townsville and Cairns only.
FOR HOBART.
ULIMAROA. iTues, | —— IHuddart, Parker,
| June 22. I I Ltd. (Tel. 95G8.)
Huddart ParkerLi^
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand pons
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
' and vice versa every three weeks.' Between Melbourne
I and Launceston three sailings per week,
j For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
Monthly Sailings thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTICE.-—All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government.
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address:
“Iroquois/’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE:, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
Blacklieatli Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS l?OU:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. a O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messegeries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tugr and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney. Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


Situation Vacant.
T\ ECHAXICAL ENGINEER wanted, for tin-sluicing
i A p’unt in Federated Malay States. Three years’
engagement, salary starts £5OO per annum. Fur-
nished quarters, fuel and light, fares paid, half-salarv
while travelling.
Apply in first instance by letter to “SINGAPORE,”
c/o Messi-3. GORDON & GOTCH, Melbourne.
Legal Notice.
T N THE SUPREME COURT OF AVESTERN
AUSTRALIA.
1,.5. AV. No. 5 OF 1920.
IN THE ESTATE of EDAVARD AVHELAN late of
Kalgoorlie in the State of Western Australia
Miner deceased intestate.
TO ANNIE AVHELAN AVidow of the said deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme Court
of AVestem Australia made in the above matter
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to ANNIE AVHELAN
if living the lawful Widow of the abovenamed
deceased who died on 12th June 1919 at Boulder in
the said State intestate and Letters of Administra-
tion of whose estate were on 21st October 1919
granted by_ the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia to Kate Jay of Kalgoorlie Married AVoman
TO GIVE NOTICE OF HER CLAIM TO OR OTHER-
AVISE COMMUNICATE with the said Administratrix
at the office of her Solicitor Mr. George Hort
Joseph 20 Weld Chambers St. George’s Terrace
Perth in the said State on or before the 6th day
of September 1920 after which date the said Admin-
istratrix will apply for an order for leave to presume
the death of the said Annie Whelan prior to the
death of the said deceased and to distribute the
said Estate accordingly.
Dated the 17th day of May 1920.
C. A. SHERARD, Master.
BALFOUR, SCOTT and MUIR, Solicitors for the
Administratrix, Boulder, by their Agent, GEORGE
HORT JOSEPH, 20'Weld Chambers, St. George’s
Terrace, Perth, Western Australia.
Ainuseiiienta.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
1" IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES AVEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.30.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents MISS LEE WHITE,
London’s Idol, in
BRAN PIE.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
I*IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY, JUNE 12.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
ROBERT COURTNEIDGE AND HIS LONDON '
COMEDY CO. in
THE MAN FROM TORONTO.
Prices as usual.
HE It 31 A .1 It S T Y ’ S. S Y I) N E Y.
Direction J. C. AVILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES AVEDNESDAYS AND HOLIDAYS at 2.
THE SWEETEST OF ALL MUSICAL COMEDIES.
KISSING TIME.
By the J. C. AVILLIAMSON ROYAL COMIC OPERA
COMPANY.
Plans at Paling’s.
Clt IT E it I O N TII Ifi A T It E. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Two more nights of CARTER THE GREAT, who
transfers to the ROYAL on Saturday.
SATURDAY, JUNE 12.
J. D. O’HARA and his Brilliant Company in
THREE WISE FOOLS.
Plans at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, sydney.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Last Two Nights of the DIGGER-PIERROTS.
SATURDAY, JUNE 12.
CARTER THE GREAT
AND HIS MAGICAL COMPANY.
A LINK WITH THE OTHER WORLD.
Plans £t Paling’s.
J. & N. TAIT ATTRACTIONS.
PALACE THEATRE. SYDNEY.
LAST SEVEN NIGHTS.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
J. and N. TAIT and BAILEY and GRANT’S
Record-Breaking Pantomime,
MOTHER HUBBARD.
“The best yet staged at the Palace.”—D. Telegraph.
SATURDAY, JUNE 19, TIGER ROSE.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
KIOK PICTURE T II E A T It E S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
IJftft MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■» Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present a musical
play de luxe,
THE BING BOYS ON BROADWAY.
Plan at Allan’s.
Popular Prices.
’ II E A T It E R O Y A L, MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 12.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Latest
London Success.
YES UNCLE.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
ING’S THEATRE. MELIIOURKB.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
j. & N. TAIT present the fascinating English actress
EMELIE POLINI in
THE LITTLE DAMOZEL,
A Fascinating English Comedy Drama.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
THE PLAYHOUSE, MELBOURNE. |
Direction J. and N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. and N. TAIT present the greatest of all Digger
Shows,
THE SMART SET DIGGERS,
in a musical barrage,
THE DIGGERS’ DREAM OF LONDON AND PARIS, j
Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 8/-, 2/- and 1/-. Plan at Allan’s. |
Amusements.
Town hall,, Melbourne.
Direction CHAPPELL.
! ENGLAND’S LEADING VOCALISTS.
AMY EVANS, Soprano.
FRASER GANGE, Basso-cantante.
MELBOURNE CONCERTS:
THURSDAY’, JUNE 10, at 8 p.m.
SATURDAY, JUNE 12, at 8 p.m.
TUESDAY, JUNE 15, at 8 p.m.
Sydney Season commences Tuesday, June 29, at 8 p.m.
Town hall, Melbourne.
Direction J. and N. TAIT.
FRIDAY, JUNE 11 ; MONDAY, JUNE 14 ;
WEDNESDAY’, JUNE 16.
J. & N. TAIT present the Russian Poet of the Piano,
MOISEIWITSCH.
Prices, 0/-, 4/- and 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES. MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOUIIKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
MADLAINE TRAVERSE in
THE SNARES OF PARIS.
I'EGGY HYLAND in
A GIRL IN BOHEMIA.
Prices as usual.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
NORMA TALMADGE in
THE ISLE OF CONQUEST.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
THE
GLACIARIUM,
, MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
p ALAIS de DANSE ST. HILDA.
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
EVERY EVENING.
PALAIS DE DANSE,
ESPLANADE,
ST. KILDA.
DANCING 8 till 11 DANCING
Entrance 1/-, plus tax, Id. Continuous Dancing.
Each Dance 3d. Private Loges, 2/- (four) ; 3/- (six).
pjRITANMA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
|yg ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SELZNTCK.
The heyford-smith school of
DANCING.
THE LATEST ENGLISH BALLROOM DANCES
TAUGHT.
ADULT EVENING CLASSES.
PRIVATE CLASSES. PRIVATE LESSONS.
SCHOOLS VISITED.
For particulars apply
54 TOORAK ROAD, SOUTH YARRA, MELBOURNE.
CLASSES WILL RESUME FIRST WEEK IN JUNE.
HE ALLAN WILKIE COMPANY,
Including Miss FREDISWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
Touring New Zealand in LUCK OF THE NAVY,
THE ROTTERS, A TEMPORARY GENTLEMAN.
DUNEDIN, TO JUNE 12.
No. 2 Company, “The Rotters,” now touring North
Island.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance dofis away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we st.->.e
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street,-Melbourne, Vic.
GOOD LOOKS
A good clear complexion has much to do with
success in life, especially for women—and for
men too. It appeals and fascinates
more than features. You can
always have “good looks”
if you take Carter'*
Little Liver Pills, for
the real source of a
healthy and spotless
face is an active
Liver. They cure t
Biliousness, Con-1
stipation, Sallow
Skin, Pimples and
Blackheads. In fact they make you better
looking. Safe for children.
Small Pill—Small Dose —Small Prioa,
GENUINE must
bear signature
CARTER'S
F ittle
IVER
PILLS
M.S. DEPENDABLE SPORTS GOODS.
Every Kind of Sport and Recreation Catered for.
2
r!
“Quality Goods at
Honest Prices.
EVERYTHING FOR
TENNIS.
RACKETS.
M.S. Handicap 12/6
Hay market 30/-
Haymarket Special .. 40/-
Haymarket Selected .. 50/-
Hay market Ex-Special 60/-
Ayre’s Handicap 35/-
Ayre’s Al 37/6
Ayre’s S.N.D 82/6
Spalding’s Vantage ... 38/»
Spalding’s Tournament 40/-
Hackett Alexander ... 65/-
(Postage on Racket: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
ar&SffSRACKET REPAIRS
TENNIS BAJJLS.
Each. Doz.
Grey Regulation -/9 8/6
Challenge Covered 1/4 10/-
Dunlop Regulation Grey 1/4. 15/-^
Dunlop’s Champion 2/9 38/*
Slassenger’s 1920 Champion 3/- 35/-
(Postage on
one doz.: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
Tennis Court Markers 35/-
Tennis Tapes 22/6
Racket Covers 2/6. 4/6
Tennis Ratchet 7/6
Gut Solution, for renovating the strings •
of rackets bottle -/9
Each.
The “H” Racket Press 8/6
The “Grip” Racket Press 3/6, 4/6
Racket Handle Covers 1/-, 1/8, 1/8
Scoring Books 1/8
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils,
2/-, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6 coil.
hkg
BOXING.
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES. Set of 4.
real leather, special value 18/0
C. 8.8., Fighting, best tan napa, laced palms 6or 8 0z.... 18/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, superior napa, laced palms, leather lined,
6 or 8 oz 18/6
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
6 or 8 oz 25/-
PERFECTION FIGHTING? napa, leather lined, 6 or
8 oz 28/«
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING, napa. curled hair, laced
palms, 6 or 8 oz 30/-, 35/*
THE “LIGHTNING,” made in Australia, officially
adopted and exclusively used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by
Mr. Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker 40/-
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
YOUTHS’ GLOVES. Set of 4.
FIGHTING, napa leather, hair stuffed 10/-
~ Tan Leather, „ ~ .... 11/6
„ very superior, „ ~ .... 12/6
„ Laced, „ „ .... 15/6
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BAND,
7in. wide (Post 4d) 9/6 each.
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) 6/6 each.
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light,
weight about 3joz. (Post 6Jd.) 17/6 pah 1 .
Keep your razor
keen by using—
STROPOLINE, 9d
TIN
► (Post Free).
/
p
PUNCHING BALLS.
We carry a wide range, including the famous REACH
Balls. A few minutes each day at Ball Punching will
keep you in good condition.
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, soft leather, tight
make, for fast work, . . 10/6, 12/6, 16/6
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine
leather, stayed seams, very fast —
18/6, 22/6, 25/-
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest
napa leather, welted and stayed, very fast and lively—
-30/-, 35/-
“REACH” ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball,
specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and
perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid.
The finest made 45/*
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for ceiling 15/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather,
double-stitched, very light 21/, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings .. 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
PORTABIiE BALL, strong spiral spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete .... 75/-
Above balls fitted with best-quality bladders. ,
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Ball Gloves 4/9 pr. Mitts .... 2/9 pr.
Punching Platforms 50/-, 75/-, 147/- each
Ball and Socket. Swivels 1/6, 2/6 „
Ball-bearing Swivels 6/6 „
SPORTING REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, Tennis Rackets, Cricket Bats, Skates, Golf
Clubs, Hockey and Lacrosse Sticks, Fishing Rods, Reels, etc., repaired
by expert Workmen. Lowest Charges.
Send for copies of “Can’t B Beat” Sportsman’s Guide (B. 1) and “Sure Catch” 1920
Anglers Guide (B 2). All sportsmen should possess them. Post free to any addrez*
. 7rf!c£ Simmons M,
i
miSTMLinS GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS’
arm tobhccomsts
gfjfk
City Sports Depot
9 9 King St, also at
Newcastle {.Brisbane


NEW DISCOVERY STOPS
COUGHS & BANISHES COLDS
Miss ANNETTE MIDDLETON, aged 9 gears
(From a photo).
It gives me much pleasure to
write and tell you what' an excel-
lent medicine your New Discovery
is.
My little daughter used to suffer
frequently with colds and sore
throat, but, thanks to your New'
Discovery, she has overcome that
now, and, as she often sings and
dances at stage performances, we
are glad to have such a good
remedy at hand. She also finds
it grand for her voice.
Wishing your New Discovery
every success,
Yours gratefully,
(Sgd.) JOHN MIDDLETON,
Sylvania, Grosvenor Street,
Neutral Bay.
SCHOOL DAYS.
School days should be days of health,
happiness and steady development, but
to many delicate, sickly children they
are days of suffering-. If your children
are weak and sickly, constantly retarded
in their work and growth by coughs
and colds, they cannot study with profit,
and they cannot grow into healthy men
and women. A cold in the head unfits
any child for lessons, and the constant
cough of a child not only weakens the
one but distracts the attention of all
the others.
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY
is a safe and certain remedy for children’s Winter Ills, and has brought health and
strength to thousands of sickly children. It can be relied on to check the cold so
quickly that the rosy cheeks have no time to grow pale, and the little brain remains
clear and sensitive for the day’s study. No coughing at night when Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery has been taken before bedtime, tout deep, refreshing sleep to fit the
children for another day of school.
Dlt. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY lias become the Australian mother’s refuge
for relieving Coughs, Colds, Croup, Whooping Cough, Influenza and Bronchitis.
Sold everywhere, in two sizes, at 1/6 and 3/-
D? Sheldon j
New Discover
s
ou
f&j*
AN D
s
Oh
Uni Flow
Eni,n 'i
Made by
Cole, Marchent 8 Morley Ltd.,
England.
Uniflow Engines are standardised in
manufacture, which makes for reliability and
interchangeability.
Drive with widely fluctuating loads —low
fuel and steam consumption; guarantee
economical running for big power work.
Ideal for Mines, Rolling Mills, Flour Mills,
Pumping Plants, 120 to 1000 B.H.P.
Other Engineering Machinery
Made by Cole, Marchent & Morley Ltd.
UNI FLOW
DIESEL ENGINES
CONDENSING PLANTS
COMPLETE POWER
INSTALLATIONS
SLOW SPEED
HORIZONTAL ENGINES
Trommel 8 Mining Screens
HEAVY MILLWRIGHT’S
WORK
Prices and Information from
British-Australian ENGINEERING C L ° ti
National Mutual Buildings,
Cr. COLLINS & QUEEN STREETS, MELBOURNE
G.P.O. Box 1303. _
The Isles of Greece and
Two-and-ninepence.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PUBLIC opinion is a holy thing;
And therefore I had need of a new
hat.
The day was bright; I had a song to sing,
Upon my window sat a yard of cat;
\nd in my pocket two-and-ninepence seemed
Like nothing I had hoped or wished or
dreamed.
These facts are part and parcel of my tale.
The world financially was out of joint;
My soul was for the moment rather pale ,
The cat was rather grey. Just at this
point
Observe that a blue jacaranda-tree
Stood in the sunshine making love to me.
I said it softly to the yawning cat,
I said it to the mat upon the floor,
“My two-and-ninepence will not buy a hat,
Save one that hangs by Israels haggaid
door. . .
Shall I do this? Alas, how pride can sink!
And at the word I saw the grey cat wink.
I knew that cat had wisdom in its fur.
Jerusalem with milk and honey blest
Was surely mine. I rose without demur
To put her gentle leading to the test.
Let bygones be. Iscariot should not stand
Between me and the business now in hand .
His name was Isaac and his stock was rare.
I paused in musty light my prey to seek.
Strange garments hung about me every-
where,
Each by its ripened smell a true antique ;
But one raw hat, scarce older than my tie,
Amid the precious relics caught my eye.
“How much?” The sacred dust of all his
race
Had crept into his eye and made it red.
He fondled that sad felt with drooping face
And “Ilalf-a-crown” was the soft word he
said.
I paid and turned from Zion’s garnered store
And breathed the green Spring singing at
the door.
Now was it Spring or was it something blue
That fumbled at the waistcoat of my Soul?
A smell of salt was in each breath I drew,
The ends of Oxford-street began to roll.
Yes, by some chance I really was at sea
In a strange box built eighteen feet by
three.
It might have been a ship; but at the side
Were various sticks that moved to give
it speed,
As if it walked on legs across the tide,
Unsafe and wriggling like a centipede.
“What thing is this?” I hastened to inquire.
The Jew replied “The Isabel, of Tyre.”
O Isabel, brown mermaid of the deep, '
Your views of navigation gave me pain!
A simple railway truck that carries sheep
Might sit more sweetly on the shining
main.
“Where are we crawling to?” I asked the
.Tew.
He said “We get to Kos at half-past two.
“Kos, Kos?” I said; “I’ve heard of Charing
Cross,
Of Hobart, Wellington and Charters
Towers;
But, what or who or where the deuce is Kos?
Can it be eaten? Is it fish or flowers?
O Shylock, by Bill Shakspeare’s mercy
speech,
What are these Kos that we may hope to
reach?” ,
“I’m not a Jew,” he said and stood erect,
His tufted whisker parted by the breeze.
The centipede with all its white claws pecked
In futile anger at the rolling seas.
“I come from Sidon.” “Oh,” I said, “I see.
Then that explains this boot-trunk under
me.”
Explains. But what on earth did it ex-
plain ?
I thought about the jacaranda bloom,
The cat, the rent I owed, the Moors in
Spain,
Zenobia, the waslistand in my room,
Horse-radish, Homer and a cricket bat
And then of half-a-crown and my new hat.
Great Pharaoh! With a gasp I felt my head
And grabbed the various things on top of
me—
Bright bits of amber, rags of blue and red;
And then I nearly dropped into the sea,
For under all these circus trappings bright
I found my hair and all my soul took fright.
Hair! It was coiled about me like a rope.
I took my hands away as if it stung.
The feeling of it said “Abandon hope!”
Alas, that I should come to this so young!
Between the centipede’s unhappy pecks
I guessed the truth—l had mislaid my sex.
I was a woman in the isles of Greece,
The place where burning Sappho loved
and sang,
Most likely looking for the Golden Fleece
Or Noah’s Ark. I didn’t care a hang
If that old soap-box climbing up a wave
Crawled down the other side into its grave.
But when we got to Kos at half-past two
I found things worse than ever I had
dreamed.
They got me off the ship before I knew ;
And then all Byron’s verses round me
streamed
With Homer and the whole Arabian Nights
And pirate kings and other ancient blights.
I was put up for auction where I stood.
I never knew my beauty till that hour.
The auctioneer declared my form was good
And publicly pronounced my face a flower.
The certainty that I was really nice
Seemed well established by ifly market price.
A pirate dressed in whiskers framed with
brass
Outbid the rest and claimed me as his
slave.
My silver sandals tinkled on the grass,
I heard the lapping of the silver wave;
And then I thought again about the cat.
The cat who winked and made me buy that
hat.
I felt like kerosene on some red fire
Lighted at Manly on a summer morn.
Beelzebub, Jerusalem and Tyre!
I heard my loud soul seething into scorn.
Should I, a free Australian, stand for this?
That hairy beast had bought my month to
kiss!
Oh, for my own black boots laced to the
brim !
Oh, for my own brown fist to grasp a
brick! ,
Oh. for some beer with bubbles at the brim .
Oh, for that traitor cat to kick and kick!
Oh, for my hat —or else my two-and-nine!
My maiden frenzy was a thing divine.
And then I saw that jacaranda-tree,
A plant too lazy to hold half its flowers ;
It seemed to stroll along beside the sea
Making insane and blue and useless
showers.
I said, “All roads may finish up in Rome ?
But take me to the doormat I call home.
Alas, my voice was lost in babbling sound !
The air was full of vowels and of k’s;
Seas of hexameters came sweeping round;
I think that Sophocles spoke all his plays.
“This classic noise,” I said, “distracts my
brain;
It makes my hairpins wrinkle with the
strain.”
Then suddenly across the ancient day
There came a voice with menace in its
tone,
A thrifty voice that rising far away
Dropped on my sense of gladness like a
stone.
Though Israel’s statelier maids are somewhat
gone
To beef, the voice of Jacob lingers on.
“The monish ish not good.” A wild hand
rose
And gripped the universe above my head.
I turned. The world became a single nose
A nose close-grasped between two eyes of
red —
And all the burning Sapphic isles of Greece
Fell with a thud —a bad two-shilling piece!
Yes, it was Isaac—lsaac in the Spring.
My dream was gone, gone with that raw
grey hat.
I knew I had a song,or two to sing;
And I had boots sufficient for the cat.
Male and with ninepence, slow I turned my
feet
Homeward across the joy of Oxford-street.
N.S.W.
PAT O'MAORI.
Kindly Light.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MOTHER HANNIGAN sat in the
ruins of an ancient horsehair arm-
chair on the pavement in front of
the little shop in which she wages unceasing
war-on High Cost of Living by repairing,
cleaning and pressing suits and costumes and
giving them another lease of life.
“Good afternoon, Mother. And how goes
it to-day?” I greeted her, pulling up for a
chat.
Mother’s blue eyes twinkled as she glanced
up at me. “Sure, Billy, me boy, I’m full
of happiness an’ sore feet,” she replied.
Then she frowned at her feet, supported on
a fruit-case and encased in a pair of volu-
minous slippers manufactured out of tailors’
cuttings of a wonderful variety of shapes
and colors. “Begad, they’re more reliable
than barometers for tellin’ when the wea-
ther’s goin’ to change. But as for peram-
bulatin’ me round they’re a bit of purgatory
on earth —the t>ete noir of me life. But
for all me sore feet I could step a jig this
minute on the tram-track.”
“Good-o, Mother,” I said. “What you
struck —a prize in Tatt.’s, a mountain of
white sugar at fourpence a pound, or”
“No, Billy, me boy* I’ve struck a win-
ner—the first in two months, an’ I’ve got a
quid on it. A quid on Kindly Light, that
won the Anniversary Cup this afternoon,
an’ I’m sittin’ here almost bustin’ with
impatience till they post the odds at the
Arms of Bacchus.”
“Good-o, Mother,” I congratulated her;
“but how in the name of Punting Percy did
you get on to Kindly Light? None of the
papers gave the nag a chance.”
She shook her head and winked.
“Sure, I got the dinkum oil straight from
no other than Paddy Smith, the big trainer.”
“But Paddy Smith is over in Sydney!”
“Now be quiet a moment, will ye, an’ I’ll
tell ye all about it. I’m workin’ hard on
a suit this mornin’, even me old soul is
sweatin’, when in bursts Molly Mackin —
you know ’er—the housekeeper for Timorthy
Conlan, the publican, who is kep’ by the
Arms of Bacchus. Molly is all of a fluster
as she flops a brown-paper parcel on the
counter. It’s Tim Conlan’s black suit, sez
she, an’ he wants it cleaned an’ pressed by
to-night, as he’s got to motor up to Bun-
garee in the mornin’ to be at the funeral
of his cousin who owned a potato-station
up there. Begad, I give Molly a look for
luck that’d make an old Collins-street cab-
man blush. ‘Be off wid ye, Molly Mackin,’
sez I. ‘Does Timorthy think I’m a Bourke-
street While-U-Wait machine?’ That brings
her up to scratch. She sez Timorthy told
her if I had his suit lookin’ spick and span
by to-night he’d make me a present of a
bottle of his best gin. Begad, that did the
trick for Timorthy, and I give Molly me
word Timorthy’s black suit will be spick and
span an’ the trousers the best-pressed to be
seen at Bungaree to-morrow.
“Well, Molly is just clearin’ off -when it
strikes me she might know somethin’ good
for to-day, seein’ as how Tim Conlan is a
big punter who isn’t a bookmaker’s benev’-
lent asylum. But Molly shakes her head.
‘No, Mother,’ she sez, ‘for keepin’ his mouth
shut about what’s doin’ Timorthy can make
an oyster look like a butcher’s magpie. All
(Continued cn next page.)


«
Zam-Buk is Soothing These Cold Days—Stops Smarting Soreness
Heals Painful Cracks and Broken Skin—Dispels Chilblains and
Winter Eczema—Prevents Inflammation and Disease.
THE skin in one of the most sensitive parts of the human body, and, because it is also the most exposed
to injury and disease, it ought to get more attention than most people think is necessary.
A sudden chill, dirt in a cold-crack or small abrasion, and skin weakness are
all likely to lead to trouble. Neglected chahngs, “chaps,” chilblains, cold sores or cuts
may also cause more serious disease in the shape of festering wounds, ulcers or itching
sores, and even chronic eczema is often traceable to neglect in the early stages of a simple
abrasion.
Zam-Buk, the active constituents of which are made of the gums and juices of medicinal herbs, is
the ideal application for the skin at this season. No ordinary ointments or salves, concocted from rancid
animal fats or mineral irritants, can do for the skin what Zam-Buk does. Such coarse and harmful prepara-
tions never give lasting satisfaction—the sort that is undoubtedly got from rubbing in Zam-Buk.
Smearing the skin with Zam-Buk has an almost instantaneous cleansing and restorative effect. So pure are the
juices in Zam-Buk that they sink deep in the pores, permeating all the minute “machinery” of the tissue, and they
just go to work right away to end the trouble thoroughly and permanently.
No skin looks so well—or is, in fact, so sound and healthy throughout—as the skin that has had frequent dressings
ol Zam-Buk. And this perfection is more than “skin deep,” seeing that a healthy skin exerts a wholesome influence
upon the rest of the body. The Zam-Buk treatment can reasonably claim to be a revival of one of the LOST ARTS of
the old Grecian days, when proper care of the skin was universal.
RUB ZAM-BUK IN TO RUB PAIN OUT.
sun-Buk
SOOTHES AND HEALS
In Winter Zam-Buk is
unsurpassed for Chapped
Hands, Chafings, Winter
Eczema, and is to be
rubbed in for Stiff Neck,
Sprains, Stiffness, Rheu-
matism, Back Pains,
Chest Pains, Sore Throat
and other aches and
pains. Obtainable from
all Chemists and Stores
at 1/6 and 3/6 per pot,
or post free from C. T 5.
Pulford (Aus.) ltd., 39
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Refuse
Substitutes.
•1 f'U
T l VIO7/ J-0
SEE
YOU
GET
ZAM-BUK
£
r
the same. I overheard him meself this
mornin’ tell a friend of his over the tele-
phone he’d got a wire from Paddy Smith
in Sydney giving him the oil that something
extry-special was out to win in the Anni-
versary Gup to-day. But the clivil of a
whisper of the name of it can I coax out
of Timorthy. All the old divil sez is that
he’ll put half a quid on it for me out at
the course.’
“ ‘Bad luck to the close-mouthed old scoun-
drel,’ I sen, as I pitched his suit into a
corner. >1 s’pose he thinks if he lets the
oil leak out the half-dollar plungers round
the Bacchus will get on to it an’ par’lyse the
bettin’ market!’
“Well, the 12 o'clock knock-off whistles
are Mowin' before I find time to make a
start on Timorthy’s funeral suit. First of
all. 1 take a run through the pockets. But
divil a bit of anythin’ do 1 find in Timorthy’s
pockets except a slip of green paper. ’Tis
half a telegram-form, an’ the business half
at that. I get into me specs, an’ before you
can gabble the Lord’s Prayer. I’m that
excited me old heart is missin’ one beat in
every five. But here, take a peep at the
telegram for ye’self.”
I opened out the bottom half of the green
Webster form Mother handed to me and
glanced over the message. Here it is:—
Sydney—l 6 wds. —ll.lo.
Don’t forget for Anniversary Meeting Kindly
Light running to win.
P. SMITH.
“Great jumping Carbine, Mother,” I said
as I returned the form. “The dinkum oil
for sure ! Paddy Smith’s wire to Tim Con-
lan giving him the tip that Kindly Light
was out to win at the Anniversary Meeting
to-day."
Mother chuckled, her gaze riveted on the
hotel-corner. “After I look up the entries
for to-day an’ see there’s a Kindly Light in
the Cup, you can bet your sweet life it is
a profiteer’s bank-balance to a widow’s mite
I don’t lose a tick of the clock in fishin’ a
quid-note out of the toe of me old slipper
an’ sending it to the course with honest
Mike Heagney, the big policeman, who hap-
pened to drop in on his way to the races.”
She paused for a moment and added with
a flutter of excitement. “Now, I’ll soon know
whether me luck is still still’ an’ I’ve backed
an odds-on favorite.”
I saw r young Ned spring from the kerb
in front of the Bacchus, glance at the sport-
ing-results board and dart towards us like
a wireless message. Mother rose and
steadied herself against the door-jamb.
Thirty yards from the shop Ned's shrill voice
rang out: “Mum. mum! Kindly Light
started at 33 to 1.”
Mother gasped : her fat face changed to
a beetroot tint, and she appeared to be on
the verge of apoplexy, and Ned and I
assisted lief into the shop. “Me poor ol’,
flutterin' heart,” she muttered, as she flopped
<>n a creaky couch. “Thirty-three quid !
Begad, who says miracles don't happen
nowadays?”
* *
About nine o'clock that Saturday evening
T was waiting on the Bacchus corner for a
tram. Along the street from the direction
of their barracks marched a company of
Salvation Army warriors; the band played
a quickstep, and like the rats behind the
Pied Piper of Ilamelin a motley crowd of
idlers and slum-bids followed the music.
Another and smaller procession distracted
my attention from the Army. In its van
shuffled the huge form of Mother Ilanni-
gan. Every dozen yards she slowed down
and rocked slightly like an aeroplane in a
gale as she stood on one leg and pushed a
heel into a down-at-heel slipper. Behind
her trailed a couple of dozen children, suck-
ing and chewing long sugary lolly-sticks.
From a bundle under one of her arms the
head of a duck dangled pendulum-like as
Mother rocked along the pavement, and in
the crook of the other arm rested a Turk's
cap. a bunch of spring onions and well-
filled paper-bags.
Mother halted on the corner and leaned
against the Bacchus wall, mighty pleased
with the world. Panting, she smiled and
nodded at the crowd gathering round the
Army band, as if she were a prima donna
waiting for the orchestra to begin. The
kids swarmed around the shiny tin-covered
cart of Tony, the pieman. With a mag-
nanimous wave of her hand that embraced
the metropolis from Heidelberg to Foots-
cray Mother responded to the clamor of the
kids.
"(live 'em all a sav. an’ roll. Tony.
Mother Hannigan’s a millionaire for a night
an’ she’s bein’ Monte Carlo!” t
The youngsters’ shrill yells of delight as
they rushed Tony’s cart temporarily drowned
the strains of the Army’s band, which had
opened its show under the swinging arc-lamp
where the two streets intersected. Mother
Hannigan was leaning against the ledge
of the big bar window, watching the
scramble about the pie-cart, when two
women, followed by a tall man, hurried
round the corner and pulled up suddenly
before her. The woman in the lead, whom
I recognised ns Molly Mackin, sprang at
Mother, grasped her by the shoulder and
shook her vigorously, causing a shower of
potatoes, onions, apples, Turk's cap and
mussels to pour on the pavement. When
she recovered her balance and breath Mother
turned indignantly on Mrs. Mackin.
“Begad, ye’re in your second childhood,
Molly Mackin, ye are, runnin’ round the
streets playin’ tiggy touchwood.”
Molly flung back her head with an angry
gesture, and Mother raised the duck’s head
and shook it in her flushed face teasingly.
With a sweep of her hand Molly brushed it
away.
“Come on. where’s that suit I left with
you this morning? I want to see it,” she
stormed, stamping her foot and missing by
an inch Mother’s most troublesome bunion.
“Now, go aisy. Molly, darlint,” Mother
continued soothingly. “To stamp on me old
feet is the quick road to the hospital.
Timorthy’s suit is spick and span.”
The second woman—an excitable, stumpy,
tubby person—jabbed her elbow into Molly's
side.
“It ain’t Mr. Coulan’s suit, I tell yer,
Mrs. Mackin. It belongs to my husband.”
The tall man, whose long, solemn face was
fringed by black sideboard whiskers, sup-
ported the fat woman.
“Mrs. Norris is right, madam.” he said.
“It is my suit.”
Mother threw back her head and burst
into a deep-throated laugh.
“Go on, be off wid ye. ye've been drinkin',
the lot of ye,” she cried, waving the duck's
head in the three faces.
In spite of the fervent shouting of halle-
lujahs and the banging and crashing of drum,
cymbals and tambourines, the crowd was
drifting from the Army to the counter-
attraction on the pavement, and several of
the Hannigan children, sav. an’ rolls in hand,
groped amongst the spectators’ feet recover-
ing the fallen commodities.
The little tubby woman shook her head
vigorously and barked at Molly Mackin.
“I tell you agen, Mrs. Mackin, it was my
husband’s suit you took to Mrs. Hannigan’s.
You remember when the two of us was in
the greengrocer’s this morning, we each had
a brown-paper parcel. You went out first
and you picked up my parcel and took
Norris’s suit round to Mrs. Hannigan, while
I left Mr. Conlan's suit at the Dry Clean-
ing Company.”
Molly shook her head suspiciously.
"I want to see the suit first,” she said.
“I know I’m right,” Mrs. Norris retorted
snappishly. “I’ve been round to the Dry
Cleaning Company an’ seen the suit I left
there. It ain’t my husband’s.”
Mother rubbed her hand across her fore-
head as if she were dazed.
“Holy Saints, the whole town’s drunk an’
I’m the only sober body! Or is it vicy
versyV” She turned to the black-whiskered
man and grinned at him.
“Begad. Mr. Norris,” she chuckled, “it’s
the first time I knew you was a racin’ man
an' in the know with Paddy Smith, no less.”
If Mother had accused him of being Bill
Hohenzollern disguised as an undertaker
Norris could not have been more flabber-
gasted.
“A racing man!” he exclaimed, “Woman,
you’ve been drinking. If I had my way I
would abolish racecourses. They are instru-
ments of Satan.”
A great gust of laughter shook Mother
Hannigan as she studied the indignant and
shocked faces of the Norris couple.
“Arrah. me beauty, ye’re a sly one for all
your black sideboards, Norris,” she roared,
with a wink, her head on one side. “Gamblin’
on the quiet an’ deceivin’ ytfur poor, God-
fearin’ wife!”
Mrs. Norris swung round on her husband.
“Henry, what does this mean?” she de-
manded.
Norris backed away from his wife and
glared at the ring of grinning faces. The
whole of the Army!s audience had moved by
this time across to the comedy turn on the
pavement.
“The woman’s mad and drunk,” he said
excitedly, addressing the crowd. Mother’s
hand shot out and gripped his coat lapel.
“Oh, it’s drunk an’ mad, am I, ye black-
haired hypocrite? Begad, I’ll give ye a real
showing up for that remark about a hard-
workin’ respectable woman that has brought
up six kids without a man to bring her home
wages for the last five years. Explain this,
will .ye, ye streak of a whited sepulchre
dressed up in black sideboards! Explain
this, will ye!”
She produced the telegram and waved it
under Norris’s nose.
“How comes it. Mister Solemn Face, that
in the pocket of your suit I found this wire
from Sydney from Faddy Smith the trainer
givin’ ye the oil that Kindly Light was
runnin’ to win in the Anniversary Cup to-
day?”
Norris snatched the form, glanced at it.
and glared at Mother, as he submitted it for
his wife’s inspection.
“Woman,” he said, slowly and thickly,
choking back his anger, “I don’t understand
what racing and gambling have got to do
with this telegram.”
Mother laughed. “They’ve got everything
to do with it, an’ ye know it, ye hypo-
crite! Kindly Light won the Cup to-day.
An’ I won thirty-three ouid on the strength
of your wire. How much did ye win?”
“Excuse me,” continued Norris, making a
great attempt to assume an injured and digni-
fied air. “If you will walk -0 yards along
tlie street I’ll explain what tilts' wire means.”
“Yes, come on. Mother llannigan,” chal-
lenged the Norris lady, “come on an’ we’ll
show you up as a bad-minded, libellous
calumniator trying to take away a good
man’s name.”
As the crowd moved after Norris and car-
ried Mother with it, Molly Mackin examined
the telegram. “Strike me dead,” she gasped,
“it must have been your husband’s suit, Mrs.
Norris. Clinker was the horse Paddy Smith
wired over, an’ this blasted Kindly Light beat
him by a bead of perspiration on the tip of
his nose.”
Norris stopped beside the iron fence of a
church and in front of a large notice-board
illuminated by a lamp in the grounds.
He addressed the crowd in a loud voice, so
as to make himself heard above the Salv’army
chorus:
“Ladies an’ gents,” Norris commenced in a
high-pitched, sing-song tone, “this is the bot-
tom half of a telegram I got during the week
from Mr. Smith —the Reverend Percy Smith,
who was in Sydney on private business—re-
minding me to put a notice on the board here
announcing the subjects for his sermons at
our Anniversary Meeting to-morrow.” He
pointed a finger at the board. “There you
see, after the printed word ‘Morning,’ I have
written up ‘Kindly Light,’ taken from the
beautiful hymn, and after the word ‘Even-
ing’ I put up ‘Running to Win,’ a subject
based on the Holy Gospel taken from the
first epistle of St. Paul to the Corinthians—
‘Know ye not that they that run in the
race all run indeed, but one receiveth the
prize? So run that ye may obtain.’”
* * * #
Every Saturday morning, rain or shine.
Mother llannigan shuffles round to the notice
in front of the church near the Arms of
Bacchus, and studies the subjects for the
Sunday’s sermons, in the hope that the
Reverend Percy is unconsciously giving out
another good thing for the races. And
Mother isn't the only half-crown punter who
watches that board.
WM. K. KENNEDY.


■fsSfci?*:
' -vv
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
tHE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Offioe—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
[hikTh U u in if w m i fSkmv/A I yj
Horlick’s Malted Milk contains
all requisite forms of nourish-
ment. That is whft makes
Horlick’s so rich so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hor-
lick’s, there is a great treat ia
store for you.
won*:
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
HORUCK’S
MALTED' MILK j
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe, and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, B u ilde r s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.IV.
Branches in all parts of the world.
WRIGLEYS
hgkghktý
The NEW
flavour!
for this
packet
At Chemists*
Confectioners*
Tobacconists
and Stores
.
Fine for the
teeth, appetite
and digestion.
SEALED TIGHT
KEPT RIGHT
per
oacket
And
the
other
two
LET ME EXPLAIN!
Beecham's Pills
• “More”in Benger’s!
When in doubt about what “Food ” for an ailing or
backward infant, or for a person unwell, remember there
is more in Benger’s than in any other food. .
Benger's is a highly nutritive food, plus the natural
means to digest it.
tyjf
Food
is ready to nourish when served, because the preliminary
work of digestion is done while you prepare it with fresh
new milk. Benger’s is both delicious and highly nutritive.
Infants thrive on it, delicate and Aged persons erjjoy it.
Veneer’s Food is entirely British in origin, ownership and manufacture. It is sold in tins
by Chemists, etc, everywhere. Carefully follow the directions on the tin when preparing it.
Booklet and full particulars post free from :
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., —■— MANCHESTER, England.
BRA CH OFFICE: 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at new YOkK (V S. A.) go. Beekman St. Depflts throughout CANADA.
y
emin&ti
*-.unfit.
Shot Gun Cartci%el
TO BE CERTAIN
that you have a genuine imported i
factory loaded Remington UMC cartridge—
Examine the brass base of the cartridge for,
the company's own marking.
REMINGTON
smokeless
powder
NITRO CLUB
smokeless
powder
ARROW
smokeless
powder
NEW CLUB
black
powder,.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative
Box 686, G. P. 0., Melbourne
HlawSl
B


NGROVTFI
LEATHER
LTI
Best by Test.
Mangrovite Leather or Raw Hide Belting has
been proved the most satisfactory and effici-
ent power transmitted. Where'er it is in-
stalled it is proving its superiority. Call
and let us demonstrate. Our engineers will
be g'lad to offer their advice in your belting
problems.
Mangrovite Belting' Ltd.
(Charles Ludowici, Managing Director),
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney,
W. Australia; Cibbs, Bright &Co., Fremantle
8 th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
victoria and Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co.,
Melbourne.
. •
Buy Saw Cuts, not Saw Blades.
You are not interested in the cost of the blades so much
as in the amount of work those blades will da
“AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE”
HACK-SAW BLADES
excel in speed, in endurance, in
range of work and in low cutting
cost, because of the correct cut-
ting angle and clearance of the
teeth.
Sizes and Prices promptly supplied
on request to Desk “A.”
The Cagle (Si Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel, 379-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
-LAUNDRIES-
Being Australian Manufacturers of the most
dependable laundry machinery, we can quote
you direct at lowest prices. Our machines
have established a wide reputation for
Economy in Operation and 100 per cent.
Efficiency in Service.
STOCKS INCLUDE: Steam Calenders; Power
Shirt and Collar Machines ; Hydro-Extractors;
Washing Machines (all metal).
ALSO SUPPLIEHS OF Blanketing; Sheeting;
Laundry Bagging; Blues; Marking Inks, etc.
Particulars of any type of Laundry
Machinery sent on application.
JAMES BARDIE & CO. LTD.,
SYDNEY, P.O. Box 2536.
MELBOURNE. P.O. Box 2502.
ADELAIDE, P.O. Box 428.
Thomson-Bennett Magnetos
are British Throughout.
They are the result of Eight Years’ Experience in Magneto Construction.
They are not a hurried production rushed on the market as a result of present conditions.
During the war THOMSON-BENNETT MAGNETOS were severely tried under every conceivable servicfe condition, and emerged
triumphant, being proclaimed by the highest authorities as good as “the best that ever was.”
The following are some particulars as to our stocks:—
2-Cylinder Thomson-Bennett Magneto, 50deg. (Clock or Anti-Clock) £l3/13/-each
2 „ „ „ „ 45deg. „ „ „ £l3/13/-each
2 „ „ „ „ 55deg. „ „ „ . £l3/13/-each
4 ff ~ ~ ~ tr ft ft £l9 each
® » tt tt tt tt tt tt £24 each
The prices quoted are extremely low for such genuinely high-grade Magnetos, and early application is urged, as when present stocks
are sold higher prices will have to be asked for on account of increased costs.
CORRESPONDENCE CORDIALLY INVITED.
SWANS LIMITED, 304 Pitt Street, Sydney,
THE HOUSE FOR MOTOR ENGINEERS' SUPPLIES .
f
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston inches;
Weight 621 b.
•
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, eanoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £27/10/-
Correspondence invited.
landler
fgjfgdj
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
MPS-Good Pumps Only
dhgktki
We manufacture what is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer,, and
can at the present time tjeliver all Standard Heavy Hines listed.
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from 12in. to Bin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRACT WORK—Send Specifications
ALDERDIGE LTD., Warrnambool
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
V * •
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.
Culwulla Chambers,
CastlereagU Street, SYDNEY.
ELDER,
Adelaide
AGENTS—
SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Brisbane Perth
LIGHT
A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
ghfghf
3 fĝjhdfg
Runs on
Kerosene
Safe.
*
Reliable
One Gallon of Kerosene
will light 32 Lamps for 4'/ 2 hours.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM SOLE AGENTS—
N N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBURTON, FRANKI LTI).,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
'
m
DODGE POWER
Transmission Equipment
The pleasing design, strength and rigidity of DODGE POWER TRANSMIS-
SION APPLIANCES is a guarantee of true, smooth running, and the elimina-
tion of waste power and less of time through stoppages. Bring your power
transmission problems to us. We can supply complete factory or workshop
equipment or single appliances as follows:
Dodge “Independence” Iron or Wood Split Pulleys, Self-
Oiling Adjustable Hangers and Post Bearings, Pillow Blocks,
Couplings, Collars, Countershafts, Bearing Metal, etc.
Catalogue and all particulars from
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
i fghfgh
fgh
fgfgj
fgh
fgj
ptlfglll
m
'U
fghf
ƒĝh
* ■gfjfg
fgj
fg
Cable Address:
“liACY/* Sydney.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
