

THE
'■'••■ir.:
» a t « «aa■» » a
‘»_*V
a m a • a ai a 'a a a a «■ a a * a
»*t mj#'m »,*’« »*»»»*
* a ra » m m
m u a'a.m-rn'm a mm a a a «
a «r*"a a a a a a
mm a mm
an* « jb a .« n a'a a a a a a
*»K*,«a>a* MM
a» a a
#ir !*•&"*
«* ** w .» «»
S
■*
•*V >'•* aVal'-ss; «is «
/,.*•#***,« - - .
, ,te
*M'**.*. ij\v f
m&r -
*• »®*-A * «<? a ®7;i j;*r**l*
c. .«•
m
WMMgfrnjaafcnMfaumai
m m
"A
oi ini> h
The designer of the Cleveland Six engine is Mr. J.
V. Whitbeck, who designed the renowned Lozier engine,
which is admittedly one of the Rolls-Royce class. Asked
to design a cheaper engine, Mr. Whitbeck produced
the famous Chandler Six, and has now gone one better
with the Cleveland Six.
The Cleveland instantly forged its way to the front
rank by sheer merit, and is now acknowledged to be one
of the Kings of the Road in the States. And we have
no hesitation in prophesying similar honors for it in
the Commonwealth.
It cannot be too strongly emphasised that the
Cleveland is a SIX-CYLINDER, and is not to be con-
founded with a mere Four-cylinder. It is a well-known
fact that a Six-cylinder motor has the fewest cylinders
that give approximately a continuous flow of power. It
has PERFECT MECHANICAL BALANCE, which
results from the overlapping of power impulses. In
other words, before the cylinder that is on the firing-
stroke reaches the bottom of the stroke another takes
it up. A heavy fly-wheel is used with a “four” to take
up the lost power between strokes. This naturally
results in excessive vibration, which is not to be found
in connection with a “SIX.” The balance of the “SIX”
so reduces vibration that the whole chassis is long-lived,
driving fatigue is reduced, and a feeling of stability is
made possible.
We are landing large numbers of this
superb light Six. The present price is
ONLY £650. But we can sell only the
first 40 at this price; then it goes up
to £675. Ring City 2567 and arrange a
demonstration.
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.
Garage and Showrooms : 147*51 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2119.
Thursday, September 23, 1920.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1920 is now ready, and will be posted
free to any address on application. ♦
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD., 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.—Advt.
THE
L
&
>*l
&
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
With which is amalgamated the Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Directors ; —SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. H, M. STRACHAN, Esq.
Chief-Manager: E. 11. WREFORD.
Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Svdnev Office, 60 Pitt St. Manager :R. S. GREGSON. Acting Sub-Manager: A. W. HEWETT.
George St. City Office, 350 George St. Manager; j. a. g. HADLEY.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 7 Lothbury, K.C. 2.
Swan Self-Filler
NOW ON SALE!
Fills with a Flip of the Finger
Price - 20/■
(Without Clip)
USE
Swan li«.
SWAN
INK
>
USE
SWAN INK
SPECIAL FEATURES:
Ladder Feed , Swan Nib,
Safely Chamber Cap,
Certain Lever Action
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
Made by MABIE, TODD & CO.
London, New York, Paris, Sydney, Toronto
m
/The Ally
ISJ
wmm
X
X
LIGHT CAR
The Car for the Owner-Driver.
The High Clearance and Long Wheelbase are just
two features that help to make the STANDARD
LIGHT CAR—THE Car for the Overseas Owner-
driver.
Send your inquiry for early delivery to Agent :
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-111 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY
STANDARD MOTOR CO., LTD.,
Coventry, England.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic known. Being destructive to all forms
of . bacterial life, they keep the mouth in a sweet,
healthy condition.
Suited for Old and Young.
For the cure of Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Unlike cough medicines, HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES do not interfere with the digestion; on the
contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as their Anti-
septic Properties prevent abnormal fermentation of
the food, and thus they prove helpful to sufferers
from Indigestion and Dyspepsia if taken after food.
Sold Everywhere in Tins, Price 1/6. [6
■&
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. Th e Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
The Red Page
Morals and Mailed Fists
Benjamin Kidd’s The Science of Potcer
(Methuen) has run into eight editions since
it was first published in 1918. This is
attributable to two main facts: the author
has something dramatic to say, and he pos-
sesses a mind and style which are crystal-
clear. He is less blatantly Pagan than Winwood
Reade, and gentler than Nordau, but he
arrives broadly at their conclusions. Wherever
his eyes turn they rest upon hatred, strife
and predatoriness operating under titles
such as religion, patriotism or justice. The
leaders of the churches have done little or
nothing to better the situation. On the con-
trary, they have usually exacerbated it, tak-
ing their sides as nationals in war-time, irre-
spective of the merits of the dispute, and
declaring for the moneyed interests in indus-
trial upheavals. No such hatreds are to
be found anywhere under peace conditions
as exist between sect and sect; and he com-
ments in passing on Lecky’s description of
Gladstone, “with many of the aspects and
accompaniments of. emotion in the fighting
savage, delivering with great eloquence a
speech on a high moral cause.” Of course
the famous sociologist is neither a cheap
cynic nor a platitudinarian. For the develop-
ment of his argument he has to establish
the well-worn fact of the inconsistency of
the devout. He picks his way, swiftly, shud-
deringly, through the torrents of blood and
the hideous social injustices which racked
the world from the dawn of the Christian
era down to the middle of last century. He
brings up there against the theory which is
to him what the basic principles of Roman
Law are to a modern guildsmau ; what the
Reformation is to a sound Catholic; what
the Vatican is to a Primitive Methodist.
To Darwin he attributes a world-influence
which culminated inevitably in the late war:
Darwin’s presentation of the evolution of the
world as the product of natural selection in never-
ceasing war—as a product, that is to say, of a
struggle in which the individual efficient in the fight
for his own interests was always, the -winning type—-
touched the profoundest depths of the psychology of
the West. The idea seemed to present the whole
order of progress in the world as the result of a
purly mechanical and materialistic process resting on
force.. . .Within half a century “The Origin of
Species” had become the bible of the doctrine of
the omnipotence of force.
In a series of fascinating passages ihe
analyses the way the new creed ..came to be
interpreted by this type of mind and that;
under these circumstances and under those.
Like the Bible, it admitted of the most
diverse readings. Herbert Spencer lived in
England—the complacently inviolate Eng-
land of the Victorian epoch. He read the
doctrine “I am the fittest. Give me my
rights. I want and I will have” to mean
individualism. The interests of the indi-
vidual must never be subordinated, he
argued, to any supposed interest of the
whole. The State must stand clear and let
its units develop or perish according to
Nature’s plan. The Fabian Socialist took
the message to mean that the fittest were
those with most State control, and that the
Millennium was to be attained by the nation-
alisation of everything for the benefit of
everybody.
Germany, jealously watching its rivals
luxuriating in the sun. deduced yet another
law from the new theory—that of tooth
and claw. The Prussian Darwinian was
as militant his British brother was the
reverse. The war came for which Germany
had schooled itself during half a century.
And this brings the author to his point. There
must be no more war, no more selfish money-
and' territory-grabbing. The world of the
future must live in peace and unity. How?
♦Briefly by applying the same cultural
methods to the cause of right which, in the
past, have been applied to that of wrong:—
There is not an existing institution in the world
of civilised humanity which cannot be profoundly
, modified or altered or abolished in a generation.
There is no form or order of government or of
the dominion of force which cannot be removed out
of the world within a generation. There is no ideal
in conformity with the principles of civilisation
dreamed of by any dreamer or idealist which cannot
be realised within the lifetime of those around him.
Treitzschke, as a young University lecturer, speaking
in 1863,, was prophesying further and truer than he
knew when he said there was no ideal which a living
people chose to put before themselves that they had
not the- power of realising in history. If only the
German people had been free to embody this teaching.
in an ideal of civilisation what might not modern
Germany have accomplished in the world!
This doctrine involves, practically, a denial
of the influence of heredity. The offspring
of criminals and cretins may be imbued with
the highest social and political ideals if they
are only caught young enough. It also
involves the proposition that the races with
the highest ethical standard are bound to
prevail.
But Germany wasn’t defeated because,
coveting -territories which had already been
pre-empted by Britain and France, it made
a burglarious attempt to acquire them.
Every recent war-book goes to show that
over and over again on land and on sea,
from the Battle of the Marne to the defeat
of the submarine campaign, Germany’s suc-
cess or downfall rested on the turn of a
card. The Ottoman Empire, the most soul-
less the world has known, began in the 13th
century with an insignificant strip of terri-
tory in North-West Asia Minor. Inside
three centuries it extended roughly from
Vienna to Bagdad. During that time it
destroyed the free Christian kingdoms of
Hungary, Serbia, Bulgaria, Bosnia and
Wallachia ; and it overthrew the empire of
Constantinople, at that time one of the
world’s chief seats of learning. The spiritual
and social ethics were all on the side of the
conquered, but they could not stand up
against the organised militarism of the
Ottoman system. The Turkish Empire has
fallen not because it is more or less moral
to-day than it ever was, but because, during
the past century or more, it has fallen be-
hind in the world-struggle for efficiency. It
is a splendid dream this of the mothers of
the world instilling into their young the prin-
ciples of humanity and universal justice,
with the result that the spirit of jiride and
the lust for gain are everywhere eliminated.
As splendid as the conception of a league
which will at length persuade the lion to lie
down with the lamb. And as impracticable.
Virtue and a just cause have never of them-
selves been worth tuppence against a strong
man armed; and there is not a line in tnis
brilliant volume to indicate that they ever
will be.
J. B. D.
The First Poems of Henry Lawson
The first poem written by Lawson was all
about William the Conqueror. Of it my
memory retains only the opening verse.
Here it is:
William called the Conqueror
Was a brave and gallant knight,
But he was a cruel and evil king,
And his principle was fight.
Father was interested, but mother, fresh
from the success of her maiden poem, My
Nettie,” did not enthuse. She bade Henry
try some more likely subject, assuring him
of success. Then she threw “William the
Conqueror” into the fire, and supplied the
poet with paper.
Of the second venture I have a clearer
recollection, because it concerned myself. I
shall give it just as I remember. Beyond
doubt the poem was far better when first
written; but 40 years is a long time ago,
and it’s full that time since the verses were
put into what Dickens calls the “portman-
teau of memory locked with the key of past
recollections.” However, after polishing the
rusty key I opened the portmanteau, and
having rooted well amid the mouldering,
teeming rubbish at last obtained this:
There now; and he was not 11 years old,
for he was born in ’67. Annette Elizabeth
died in ’7B. “My Nettie” was written in
March of that year, and the above ballad was
composed within a fortnight of the day on
which Mum’s gem was published.
CHARLES LAWSON.
Charlie jogged along one evening
After cattle on his mare—
Stumbled she the noble pony,
Came a eropper fair and square,
Threw her gallant rider headlong,
Left him lying where he fell,
Gave he utterance to bad language,
Gave he utterance to a yell.
Heard his cry did Hiley Spencer,
Came he running up the lane,
Gave he Charlie two big quinces,
Eased they all Charlie’s pain.
They agreed they’d go together
All the cattle for to find,
Charlie mounted in the saddle
liiley mounted on behind,
Jogged they across to Cox’s,
As if they’d nothing else to do,
Inspected there the pigeon boxes,
Chased they a kangaroo.
In the west the sun was burning,
Charlie thought ’twas getting late.
They inqst think of home returning—
Can’t leave cattle to their fate.
Then they mounted on their pony,
Jogged they adown the vale,
Just in time for Lank and Roany
Coming through the-paddock rail.
Neither had the slightest idea
Where the other cows might be —
Ah! they heard the pan a-fizzing,
Wondered what there was for tea.
When Mum asked about the cattle
Charlie only gave a grunt—
He had searched the mountains over
And had given up the hunt.
But the sliprails are all right
So they can’t get to the wheat,
But before you ask them further
Give them both some thing to eat.
In the morning up came “squoire’’-—-
Squoire Page, of course, I mean—
All the cattle in- his wheat-crop
That same morning he had seen.
Sure had not ye paddocks
For the cattle to confine?
Some fine morning: he would shoot them,
Shoot them wid his ould carbine!
He would let ye have them this time;
If again he caught them so,
He’d put spurs upon his heel
And. to pound they all should go.
Wells
Inasmuch as 11. G. Wells makes a true
picture of the life and society round liim, he
is a great novelist. Beyond the boundaries
of that wide country he is a talkative, pleas-
ant man with a fine sense of the dramatic,
a nice feeling for -literary style, and an
overwhelming belief in himself in all direc-
tions justifiable and unjustifiable. Curiously,
Wells’s belief in Wells, sublime as it is, is
hardly ever artistically obtrusive, which can-
not be said of his contemporary Arnold Ben-
nett ; one gets very tired of Bennett in Ben-
nett’s books.
Speaking personally, one became aware of
Wells as literature on the publication of
“Tono-Bungay.” Up to then there had
been terrific romances of Mars and a future
world, deadly scientific and very interesting,
but all giving the impression of superlative
journalism rather than of even the most
ephemeral form of letters. It would seem
that his spare time in the poverty of the
drapery counter and the science lectures had
shown him a good thing coming, at which he
was hammering hard while it stayed good.
In the acid school of poverty he took his
first degree, his father being a professional
cricketer —a bowler for Kent —who appren-
ticed him to the drapery business and con-
sidered him thus comfortably, if humbly,
established in life. But that wasn’t H.G.’s
idea at all. He ran aw r ay from the draper’s
shop (which is written up most poignantly
in “Kipps”), and fought like time for Ins
other degree, a science-pass at London Uni-
versity. This he won, and the spare hours
came for “The Time Machine” and the
others. Probably the poverty and the fight
saved the day for Wells. One can imagine
that if there had been no draper’s shop the
science degree (on the basis of an allowance
from the old man, and so forth) might have
put a finishing coat of dust on the most sen-
sitively-impressionable mind in English let*
ters. As it was, he cut away from science
as from drapery, and got, quick and lively,
at his own business of waiting us up.
This, despite his popularity, he does well
—tremendously well. One passes the scien-
tific romances as negligible—as negligible as
Wells himself thinks them. While he was
writing them he was feeling his pen, and his
imagination and his gift of characterisation
were finding themselves. In those books, how-
ever, there is a foreshadowing of the magi-
cally convincing quality of his later work;
the reader really goes through those adven-
tures with Martians and their machines —the
ordinary reader worried about his job and
(Continued on page 24.)


u
a
Anthony Horderns Spring and Summer Fashions.
m
JXB3l.—Exquisite Cape-
like Wrap, carried out in
Black Silk Eolienne.
The circular collar is its out-
standing feature, being com-
posed of overlapping folds. The
lining is of rich Black and
White Fan-Tai-Si Silk.
Price .. . £l3/13/-
We Pay Carriage to
any part of N.S.W.
on Family Drapery
and Fashion Goods.
I If
Dl3 Z
Dl32.—Dainty Tattle
Self-c olored Fuji
Skirt, with novel'hip em-
piecements, cable-stitched
and self-button finished.
Narrow, all-round belt.
Price
63/-
Truly delightful are this Season’s Spring and Summer
Fashions at Anthony Horderns’. These illustrations
convey a faithful representation, and reflect originality
in style-correctness, price moderation and unequalled
value—the Policy of the House of Economy.
Write for
our
Fashion
Book.
It illustrates
everything
that is
Newest
and Most
Serviceable
for this
Season’s
Wear.
-9T
C 7
/
h
0
H 126
H 382
Hl26.—Nobby Pull-on Style, in Pine Pedal
Tagel, with contrast colors edge, effective trimming
of good Faille Ribbon. Colors—Mastic, Putty, fjaxe,
Rose, White, Black,
Price 16/6
H3B2.—Smart Stripe in Pine White Bleach
Italian Pedal. Trimmed wide White Faille Ribbon.
Price 27/6
Prices
are based
on a
moderate
standard,
and are
strictly in
accord
with the
policy of
Value at
Anthony
Horderns’.
-4
U
-T
X-
O'
"Cs
1X76
IX 0654
I
IX 0613
IX76.—Adorable Blouse is
this in Heavyweight Ivory
Crepe de Chine. The roll
collar, with its pointed revers,
hemstitched and pin-tucked fronts
are prettily treated with Silk
Floss embroidery; the inset sleeves
and shoulders are hemstitched, also
the prettily-turned-back cuffs.
457-
Price
Hl6
IXoBl3.—Paris Net was cm-
ployed in this Dainty Little
Blouse, the square yoke, front
and cuffs adorned with fine Filet
Lace. Pin-tucks further enhance,
whilst the sleeves are inset cable-
stitching.
Price 13/11
Hl6.—Distinctly Chic is this Ele-
gantly Simple Hat of Metalised
Brocade, in softest Gold and Silver shad-
ings, combined with Sand Georgette.
Price 95/-
H 29. A New Cloche, showing a modified
Tam in softest Lime Pedal. The drooped
brim, which is underlined with orchid
mauve Cr?pe, is of Metalised Georgette in
Pastel Colorings, the same tones appearing
in the half trail of poppies and foliage
adorning the crown.
Price
£6/6/.
IXoBs4.—Prettily - designed
Blouse in White Voile, with
round peaked collar and cuffs, em-
broidered, and lace-finished; hem-
stitching and pin-tucks give a
pretty effect.
Price
i
18/11
Anthony Hordern 8 Sons Limited
Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
V
\sL
*7X436
JX 4 3 6.—T his Wrap
savors of Old-World De-
signing, fashioned from
Black Chiffon Taffeta.
The irresistible frills at sides
and on sleeves, together with
the semi-fitting back amj cape-
like collar, would captivate
the heart of the most dis-
criminating woman. Buttons
and a girdle depending from
sides embellish. Obtainable
also in Putty.
Price .... £9/17/6
On Inter-State and
Island Orders We
Pay Carriage to the
• ■* 4
nearest port
D 433
D 433. —F a s h i o nable
Skirt, carried out in
Black Chiffon Taffeta,
with billowy hip effects, with
wide, folded belt.
Price . . £6/15/-


KODAK
the
children
M
How often have you heard others say “I wish I could always keep my children just as they are
now. Perhaps you ve said the very same thing yourself and felt regret.
The next best thing is to make Kodak pictures of them—pictures that will be cherished by you
and them in the future.
The Vest Pocket Kodak is an excellent instrument for such a purpose—it is always ready to make pictures of happy incidents as
they occur, and handy to take with you wherever you go.
Although small enough to go in the waistcoat pocket or lady’s handbag it takes pictures If x 2f inches that can be readily
enlarged if desired, and only costs 54/6.
Other Kodaks to £2O/15/-
Ask for the Kodak Catalogue. Of all Kodak deal ers, and
KODAK (Australasia) PTY LTD.,
579 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street,
Brisbane ; The Valley ; 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide ; '45 Elizabeth Street. Hobart; Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville ; East Street, Rockhampton ; Optical and Photo Supplies
Co., Perth; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
The world’s greatest violinists.
&
i*
ite
\
1
/
His MaitterV Voice
m %k\
l %
.3*ll
All have not yet visited Australia. Instead, they
have sent their music, in its original purity of
tone, over the sea to you.
This they have done through the agency of
His Masters Voice
Instruments and Records.
This perfect combination gives you a real repro-
duction of their art—all the finish and delicacy
of their playing is retained —every minute
degree of expression registered.
Some of the numerous records available:
JASCHA HEIFETZ.
10-INCH RED LABEL, 8/6.
4-7940 —Meditation (Glazounov)
4-7941—Turkish March
(Beethoven)
4-7938—Valse Bluette (Air de
Ballet).
12-INCH RED EABEE, 12/6.
2-07966—Spanish Dance
(Sarasate)
2-07962 —he ronde des lutins
(Dance of the Goblins)
KUBELIK.
12-INCH RED LABEL, 12/6.
07979 —Canzonetta
(Tschaikowsby)
07953—Zapaleado (Sarasate)
07951—Pierrot Serenade
(Randegger)
ELM AIN.
10-INCH VIOLET LABEL, 8/6.
3- Minuet (Haydn)
4- —Souvenir (Drdla)
12-INCH VIOLET LABEL, 12/6.
07995—Ave Maria
(Schubert Wilhelmj)
07928—Nocturne (Chopin)
07927 —Serenade (Schubert)
KREiSLER.
10-INCH VIOLET LABEL, 8/6.
3-7942 —La Chasse
3-7927 —Variations
12-INCH VIOLET LABEL, 12/6.
07939 —Humoreske (Dvorak)
07961 —Tambourin Chinois
1 needle for “His Master’s Voice”
many records. TUNGSTYLE Needle,
The Tungstyle Needle will play a very great number of records before it wears. It imparts a smooth,
strong, full tone, saves your records, and costs 2/- per packet of 4 needles.
Full lists, instrument catalogue and name of nearest accredited dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO, LTD.,
“GRAMOPHONE”
Head. Trade-mark.
103 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“His Master's Voice”
Read. Trade-mart:
‘HIS MASTER’S VOICE”


For Biliousness
When your tongue is coated all
over with a whitish-yellow color
and your breath is bad, » you have
constipation and headaches, the
chances are you are bilious. Your
liver needs attention.
Strong purgatives which pro-
duce a re-action only aggravate the
trouble. Gentle assistance is what
nature needs. Pinkettes, the little
pink laxative pills, meet the require-
ments admirably.
1/- bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co..
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:—From 17/6 per day.
10/- per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
“Ross”
Celebrated
x 8
Field
“Ross” Field Glasses are the best
the world produces.
Have a linear magnification . . 8 times
Diameter of object glass . . 1 inch
Luminosity . . . . 9.
Angle of field . . . . 50°
Visible field at 1000yds. . . 110 yards
“Ross” Racing Glasses are TI-IE BEST pos-
sible. We carry all their models and sell
them at the English catalogue prices only,
with 15 per cent, added Customs and im-
porting expenses.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
Australasian Wholesale Representatives
Plain Figures.
Cash Oniy.
Ross Ltd., London,
23 8 25 Hunter St., Sydney.
In these days we all have
to Keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Belief Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
1
mtbfal iff
1
m
(U-SA)
mm
1 GAM
GALVANIZED S H EETS
Corrugated and Plain.
on * n D
Baldwin’s Phoenix Crown
Entirely British Manufacture and Specially
Made for Australian Requirements.
STANDARD BRITISH CORRUGATIONS.
ASK YOUR SUPPLIER for this make. Their superior working
qualities are widely known. They are the best for ROOFING,
for TANK and CISTERN-MAKING and for ALL GALVANIZED-
IRON WORK of every description, possessing as they do
A Uniform Heavy Coating of Pure Spelter,
which ensures long life under all climatic conditions.
Baldwin’s Best Soft Steel Black Sheets
Specially adaptable for MOTOR-BODY BUILDING and for ALL
CLASSES OF WORK where a FLAT ROLLED SHEET of the
best working qualities is desired.
We now hold large stocks of all sizes in Australia and New Zealand.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND:—
R. JOHNSON, CLAPHAM 8 MORRIS LTD.,
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WELLINGTON, NZ.
a
'MI
Williams
Shaving Powder
Sprinkle a little of the powder on the end
of a good wet brush —play around your
moistened beard and instantly you will find
your stubble smothered in a creamy billow
of lather. After the shave —and what a
shave it is —your skin will be cool, smooth
and comfortable. Williams’Shaving Powder
is a high-class toilet preparation, yet most
economical, for there is absolutely no waste
—the soap is used down to the last atom.
Have you tried it ?
Obtainable at all Tobacconists and Chemists
W 33
Vi
©
n
JHM
• -< .
si iiii'
You’ll Still Smell the
the Wool!
Dip
m
Take any of those fleeces at Shearing Time, and if they’ve
been Dipped in “Vallo” you will actually smell the Dip
in the Wool. It will still be there—and with it that
lasting protection which ensures cleaner Fleeces, better
Sheep, bigger Clips. Dip Your Sheep in
Powder SHEEP DIP
and you solve your Dipping Problem for Twelve Months
hence. Your Sheep will be Vermin-free from that
moment onwards. They’ll be Vermin-proof, too, for
“Vallo” means Protection from Dipping to Dipping. Try
it. Its effectiveness will impress you.
All Stores—everywhere
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CU
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - BRISBANE
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Song and Vision.
From morrow unto morrow
Some journey on and on,
Grown grey with age and sorrow,
With toil and weeping wan;
Yet, evermore before them,
Dream lights her shining lamp,
And evermore it cheers them
Through fog and dust and damp.
They catch at gleaming bubbles
Like little folks at play ;
Behind them lie the troubles,
The woes of yesterday;
And yet. though round about them
Dark shadows drooping throng,
They see a shining vision,
They hear a deathless song.
For they, with seeing gifted,
Look farther than this world;
They .see, at times, uplifted.
Far mountain-peaks, cloud-furled,
Far lakes, far plains, far rivers,
Far gleams, and glories far,
Not shed by moon or planet,
Not born of sun or star.
Not wholly made and moulded
Of clay, at times, they hear
The beat of wings, unfolded,
Vast wings that hover near;
And though, life-long, they journey
Through darkness gropingly,
They dream of kingly kinship
And glittering ancestry.
From morrow unto morrow
Some stagger on and on,
Grow grey with age and sorrow,
With toil and weeping wan;
And yet, with dreams to cheer them,
They face the hosts of Doubt,
Made patient by a Vision—
A Song within, without.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Last. Post.
Oh, I’ve answered when it called me —
From Reveille, gay with laughter—-
And I’ve stuck it to a finish
With the lighting rabble rout;
Now I’m waiting my last bugle;
I'll be off to bye-bye after
“Lights out.”
There’s a wind among the shadows,
And it whimpers like a woman.
Oh, it’s dark among the shadows
When your heart is not so stout:
For I’m waiting my last bugle,
And the call seems long o’ coming—■
“Lights out”!
There’s a mist above the river;
I can hear the ripple falling—
Hear it sobbing in the rushes
Where the current swings about;
But beyond it, hark! the bugle
O’er the hidden water calling
“Lights out” !
VICTOBIA.
MAKIE E. J. PITT.
Philanthropist.
“He has a heart like Christ’s,” they said,
“So kind and generous is he.”
They know not that his heart is dead,
Because of me, because of me;
And what he gives the suffering poor to-day.
He filched from them, for me, long years
away!
N.S.W.
M. S.
Psyche in Suburbia.
The bronze staccato of the morning rouses
My brain from sleep’s grey places with
a jar,
Rippling nnd clanging round the quiet houses
As night puts out her candles star by star.
Scant is my faith in ghosts and gods and
fairies,
Yet sad, I know, till Death the dustman
call,
The hearth’s immortal and malicious Lares,
Hold me in thrall!
Through the drab days of all the years here-
after
I must pace meekly, who am pagan, wed
To futile fears, and smug decorous laughter,
And life that walks in paths as grey as
lead —
I. Psyche, of Love’s golden Eldorado,
Grown pinionless, of all that passion
brings
Hold but at heart one aureate, far shadow
Of whisp’ring wings!
I hear and marvel through Day’s tumult
breaking
The gay love-passage of fair seasons met.
That is Spring’s music, deep at heart
awaking
The minor of an infinite regret!
The fiery lips of Spring’s immortal passion
Murmur of song and skies divinely gold.
Till my heart aches that dear forgotten
fashion
Love taught of old!
Ah, me! I know not why men strive and
wony,
Pass and repass the suburbs’ stony ways,
Why at my gateway Miller nods to Murray,
Murray greets Miller with unchanging
phrase.
Nor guess why Love’s flushed face grows
grey and dreary
To those who chain him fast with golden
rings—-
I know alone that I am very weary
Of all these things.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOĹOWAY.


I
• tti
' w
Jevland
THE cost of haulage is a big item with Builders,
Shire and County Councils. The Motor tip,
wagon reduces the cost to a minimum. We supply
Tip Lorries either Steam or Petrol driven, with hand
or hydraulic tipping mechanism. The illustration
depicts our Standard hydraulic 4 ton Tipper which
is being used extensively by progessive Boards and
Councils.
r
S' -As r -
LEYLAND LOGIC
Many manufacturers feat-
ure a tip-wagon on their
selling lists, bat none offer
the variety in Steam or Pet-
rol that we do. The Chassis
itself is the Standard Ley-
land type, u ith our im-
proved type of body
capable of standing the
limit of wear and tear.
For hard work on heavy
roads there is no lorry that
can show the same results
as the Ley land.
LEYLAND MOTORS LTD.,
London Bank Chambers,
For heavy Loads on heavy Roads ” Moore street, Sydney.
Victorian Agents: Preston Motor
Pty.j Ltd., High Street, Preston,
MELBOURNE.
They Stand Out
because of their Excellence .
If you knew the wonderful body-building
energy-yielding qualities which nature
has stored away in beans you would eat
more of them.
If you knew the delightful meals that
can be quickly served with
“REX” Pork and Beans
you would see to it, that you always had
a tin or two handy in your cupboard for
emergencies.
“REX” Pork and Beans mean freedom
from labor and worry in preparing
quick meals.
They simplify your formal dinners or luncheons ;
make the family meals more tasty and more nour-
ishing; and delight the hearty men folk and the
growing youngsters all at once.
"REX" PORK AND BEANS
are ready to serve after being im-
mersed in boiling water for 20
minutes no fuss —no trouble.
Insist on “REX” PORK and BEANS
—the Australian product.
Soid by all Grocers.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LIMITED
Packers of " Rex ” Pure Food Pioducts,
Curers of "Rex" Hams and Bacon.
to
REX
r
J. 552
M.B-?
ioegula
elf.
British.
ture
Ask for O NOTQ
Hit
The Popular Shilling Tooth Paste
Cleans the teeth without scratching
Sweetens the breafbibardeos rbe gums
MADE
IN
Australia
4/
yr
If your chemisl- or storekeeper
cannof' supply, send \/s in stomps
fo Rocke.Tompsitt £ Co. Melbourne.
ABDUL
1
a®
CIGARETTES
Abdulla Cigarettes are an ex-
clusive smoke at an unexclusive
price. They are admitted into
good society everywhere be-
cause their fragrance is so
enjoyable. Try them yourself.
THORNES
WHISKY
The soft dew of the Scottish High-
lands seems to be in the mild,
mellow flavor of Thorne’s Whisky.
It is a delectable drink that once
tasted makes you want it again—
and always. Judge it for yourself.
“Incomparable” O.H.M
Over 200 years’ experience
is behind Martell’s quality.
Martell’s Brandy is wonderfully stimulating and energy-renewing.
Being especially rich in the higher ethers it is excellent for medicinal
purposes and has an immediate life-giving effect.
While as a beverage its mellow flavor and delicate bouquet are
preferred by the connoisseur.
KARTELL'S BRANDY


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
VOL. 41. —No. 2119.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1920.
Pbice 9d.
“IN THE SPRING THE YOUNG MAN’S FANCY TRIES TO TURN
TO THOUGHTS OF LOVE.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
10., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
/■or £1 lSs. per annum, you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
1 o any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknoioledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention, Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail , from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotcli, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.I/;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Ilolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; International House,
H Kerk Street, Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1/1/1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; the Boston Hat Works and News
Co., 109 A Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A, —Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; J. Roland Kay Co., 181/9
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Liberty News
Co., Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth
Avenue and 27th Street, New York; Schulte News
Agency, Bryant Park, l/2nd Street and 6th Avenue,
New York City; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago; Golden Gate News Agency,
719 Market Street, Chicago; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu.- —Fisher News Agency, 7 63 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt.- —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore.— John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera. 16 Baillie Street,
Cdlombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai, Kulamadau and
Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva ; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe
Islands. 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one neivspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Bloz. to 10oz..
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, 1/oz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1920.
THE LAW TO PREVENT
PRODUCTION.
The movement for the further stoppage of
production has not been fully established by
either custom or law, but it progresses. In
N. S. Wales it began with the usual breakage
of the law and breach of agreement in the
shape of a Saturday-morning strike. It
was no general event. Even the trade in
which it was inaugurated contained so
many malcontents that for a while the
strike almost looked like a failure. The
prospect of an extra half-day to spend in
two-up, football, horse-gambling, beach-
combing, fishing, conversation, leaning up
against things, looking at the same old
scenery—to spend, in short, on the weary
round of laborious pleasure which is all
that is available save to the few who have
a passion for literature and art —didn’t
strongly appeal at first. Most joys cost
money, and when it is a case of two days’
routine pleasure to be paid for out of the
proceeds of five days’ work, as against 1$
days’ pleasure to be paid for out of 5$ days’
earnings, the difference is considerable. But
the non-producing yet steady-salaried crowd
which lives by pointing out Labor’s griev-
ances and redressing them got to work and
urged breakage of the law and breach of
agreement with vast energy. It was helped
by the carefully-fostered doctrine that pro-
duction is a disgrace, and any attempt to
take the supply of the local market out of
the hands of the importer a thing to be
ashamed of, and that work, especially when
paid for by results, is a sin—except, per-
haps, in the case of the cocky, who may toil
all round the clock for anything he can get.
“Propaganda” was enthusiastic and “pres-
sure” was brought to bear. The usual
element which revolves around Sydney Labor
Council began to advocate murder, theft,
rape and the destruction of the self-governing
rights of the people in the old way. That
is to say, it advocated “direct action” and
the seizure of factories—not of the foreign
importers’ warehouses —by violence; and
though rape and murder were not mentioned,
they are the inevitable concomitants of up-
heaval on a big scale. The idea was indus-
trial compulsion, which is a thing much
denounced —not compulsion' to attend on
industry, but compulsion to be absent from
industry. It soon transpired, as a matter
of course, that the N. S. Wales Government
contemplated altering the law so as to bring
the law-breakers inside it and put the law-
keepers outside. It isn’t likely that 44-
liours’ or 40-hours’ work per week will be
legalised so violently just yet that the man
who is found doing something useful out of
hours will be put in gaol, but it is reckoned
that once legal recognition is secured plenty
of means will be found to prevenjt work and
keep down production.
* * * #
The salaried men who sit in offices and
officially declare the wrongs of Labor declare
that there will be no falling off in produc-
tion. As much work will be done in 44
hours as in 48, just as the same amount
would be done in 24 hours as in 44. The
view is that a tramcar or a steamer or a
coach or a motor-car or a train can be driven
as far at the same speed in 11 hours as in
12; that a stationary engine will revolve as
often or a loom whirl as often; that a
boiler will boil as much water; that a sailing-
ship will travel as far. or a windmill revolve
as much, because the wind will blow harder
to make up arrears; that as many fish will
be caught because the fish will hurry;
that a brick-kiln will hear of the new
arrangement and become 124 per cent,
hotter, and that the coal will turn into gas
124 per cent, faster. Also that machinery,
which perishes while lying idle through rust
or getting out of date just as it does while
working, will swear off decay in the spare
hours. It might equally be argued that
going slow doesn’t reduce production; for
if a man goes slower it is the same as if he
left off sooner. Conversely the theory
might be advanced that an extra half-day’s
loafing is quite needless, for if a man loafed
harder he could loaf as much in one day as
in two. But all such mathematical or
arithmetical or geometrical or hypothetical
propositions lack practical value. In almost
every industry where it is possible to com-
pare the amount produced (boots, hats, yards
of cloth, bricks, candles and the like) with
the number of workers, it is found that the
output per man has been diminishing. It
hasn’t diminished because hours were
lengthened, for in many cases they have been
shortened, and until the output can be
brought up to its old level there is no reason
to think that further shortening will make
things better. In any case, the prominent
men who advocate the five-day week are the
same who persistently preach less produc-
tion, and advocate strikes, which mean no
production at all; so when they profess to
desire shorter hours in order to keep up
production, most people won’t take them
seriously. The case isn’t strengthened by
hysterical appeals to the inherent right of
all humans to be abroad and enjoy “God’s
glorious sunshine” on Saturday mornings.
It often rains on Saturday mornings, and
until now very few of the parties concerned
showed much belief in God. He shouldn’t
be dragged hysterically into the case by
agnostics and sundries.
* * * *
This is certainly no time for trying experi-
ments with production. Only the thinnest
kind of a partition separates Australia from
the choice between the most serious trouble
and such hard and grinding work as has
never been known since the convict days.
And it must be skilled, capable and produc-
tive work, for being a beast of burden in a
railway cutting is only work so long as the
loan money holds out. Within a mere
handful of years gold-seeking, as a highly-
payable job for casual toilers, has died. In
the memory of people still living the product
of this one industry, worked on the surface
in a corner of Australia by a handful of
navvies and casuals, was about £l2O per
year for every family of five. Now it is
about £4 per family, and doesn’t pay ex-
penses. The selling of Government land
produces only a fraction of what it did.
The loan boom is wearing out, as Theodore
found on his recent visit to London, though
depreciated paper, of no value to anyone
save ourselves, can still be raised with "diffi-
culty. The outflow of gold to pay interest
is perilous. The manufacture of paper notes
has been carried so far that the banks are
clogged with many millions in £lOOO-notes
which they can’t use. So the ex-parsons,
ex-hangers-on to the fringe of journalism,
lawyers without practice, and others who live
on the cause of Labor find a final resource
in preaching that the accumulations of the
capitalist should be annexed, and that all
productive works should be seized and handed
over to tumultuous amateurs, whether there
are accumulations attached to them or not.
They are the new gold-mine or wild «at.
* * # *
But in this country it is difficult to find
much to plunder. The A.M.P. Society with
about £40,000,000 is habitually considered
a good mark, but it belongs to over 500,000
people whose interest averages £BO each.
These aren’t great capitalists to be exploited.
Other life assurance offices are on the same
basis. The Commonwealth Bank, with
£63,000,000 of assets, seems like a capitalist,
but divided among 5.,200,000 shareholders it
holds only about £l2 apiece. The savings
banks are worth about £130.000,000; but
there are 3,100,000 shareholders (say £42
each), and not a bloated capitalist among
them. The joint-stock banks have among
them only about £22.000,000 which is worth
seizing— i.e.. their coin. Their vast mass of
bills, lOU’s and Federal notes would be only
waste-paper when the machine that worked
them ceased revolving. Land is being so
steadily cut into small holdings below the
tax-exemption limit that the receipts from
Federal land-tax have grown smaller every
year since 1915. the diminution being nearly
25 per cent. Sheep are held in smaller and
smaller flocks. N. S. Wales is the great
sheep State, counting for more than five
other States and two Territories put to-
gether. In 1891 there were 23,009,980 of its
sheep held by owners of 50.000 or more jum-
bucks apiece, but only 2,593,328 were thus
held in 1918. So the big man shrank by
nearly 90 per cent, in 27 years, and there
isn't much of him left to confiscate. Aus-
tralia has no imperial or grand ducal palaces
filled with the bric-a-brac of ages all wait-
ing to be melted down. Loose-tongued people
who happen to know that there were 30
such palaces in and around Berlin, and that
the Czar was credited with owning 150
castles, talk as if these things existed here.
In fact, there are only six shabby Govern-
ment Houses, with oleographs in them. The
portable, reachable, convertible wealth of
all those who could reasonably be called
solid capitalists in Australia (wealth as dis-
tinguished from the bills and notes repre-
senting what they owe to each other) would
barely supply the people with a week’s meals.
The policy of postponing work because two
unpractical individuals like Garden and
Tom Walsh think there is an illimitable,
inexhaustible will-o’-the-wisp hoard to "be
drawn upon is unsatisfying.
* * * *
There are still other reasons why the pre-
sent is no time for amateur conversational-
ists in office to muddle with possibilities of
decreased production. To quote one, the
N. S. Wales Director of Labor reported for
August that, despite the tremendous loan
expenditure of the Storey Government, the
unemployed situation glows worse. Produc-
tion in many lines is hampered by the impos-
sibility of securing skilled labor, but on
the other hand the superabundance of un-
skilled labor is an embarrassment. The scar-
city of highly-paid skilled labor, the kind
that makes things, is the result of years of
the sin which restricts the number of appren-
tices so rigidly that capable workers tend
to diminish a little or at least to be a sta-
tionary quantity, so that there may be only
as many of them to-day to do for five mil-
lion people as there were a few years
back to do for three millions. The dreadful
superfluity of the other sort arises from the
same cause. The heartless conservatism
which aims at allowing only two working-
class boys, out of nine to learn a trade while
seven sell newspapers, deliver milk or “fol-
low the ponies” is coming to maturity. A
large part of the class represented by the
favored two grows arrogant, unreasonable
and exclusive —so much so that, finding the
community in dire straits for lack of things
it has made a monopoly, it proposes to show
its power and amuse itself with the suffer-
ings of others by making the shortage still
greater. A large part of the class represented
by the seven has no present hope in life
save in precarious loan-money or supercilious
charity or robbery with violence, and unless
it can get access to trades, even though it may
be rather late in life, it would almost better
be dead. It obtains a certain amount of
employment as rouseabout to the skilled
worker, but the less that person works the
less the employment. And it receives pints
of crocodile tears from politicians and others
who shut it and its sons out of the decent
avenues of life, but appeal for its vote on
the ground of a common grievance against
alleged millionaires.
THE IMPORTANCE OF BEING J. AND
H. G. KIRKPATRICK.
It is beginning to be remarked thgt J. and
H. G. Kirkpatrick, architects, of Sydney,
are having uncommon luck. In March it
was admitted by the Minister for Repatria-
tion that J. and H. G. Kirkpatrick had
been appointed to prepare plans and specifi-
cations for, and supervise the construction
of, the War Service homes to be erected by
the Commonwealth Bank. Asked what J.
and H. G. Kirkpatrick had done to deserve
so profitable a monopoly, and how a firm in
Sydney could manage to look after the
housing of repatriated Diggers in Croydon
(N.Q.) and Meekatharra (W.A.), not to
mention hundreds of other districts, remote
and tropical or sub-tropical, the Minister
replied that he didn’t know: the arrangement
had been made by the Governor of the
Bunk and the Administration wasn’t satisfied
with He further confided that J. and
IT. G. Kirkpatrick were to receive a modest
34 per cent, on the price of each contract,
which is virtually 2 per cent, more than the
rate fixed by the Institute of British Archi-
tects for the same class of work. Britain
is also struggling with a housing difficulty,
and in September, 1919, the Institute of
British Architects, recognising that there
was enough work in sight to keep
its members employed for the next 10
years, and desiring to do the square thing
by the Tommies, decided that its fees should
be 5 per cent, on the first 32 cottages or
flats, 24 per cent, on the next 60, and 3 4 per
cent, on the remainder, this scale to cover
the ordinary variations in type of house. It
mentioned that the charges would be the
same no matter how many architects were
engaged—meaning that if half a dozen archi-
tects were employed on a big contract
they would divide the one commission on
the lowest scale —and added: “It is not
desirable that any one architect or firm
should be entrusted with more than 250
houses in any one scheme.” When the 14
per cent., arrangement was contrasted with
the 3| per cent, monopoly accorded to J.
and 11. .G. Kirkpatrick, the Representa-
tives exhibited a critical spirit, and the
Labor members were particularly aggressive
in asking questions. Arthur Blakeley
demanded to know :
1. Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Bank has
approved of plans for the erection of 5315 homes ?
2. Is it a fact that the firm of Kirkpatrick will
receive not less than £30,000 for plans and super-
vision on the 5315 homes?
3. Is it a fact that the Repatriation Department
has protested against the charge of £24 10s. per
house for plans and supervision?
4. By whom will the commission of 3J per cent,
bp paid—by the Bank, the Housing Commission, or
the soldiers who purchase the homes?
5. Does any family relationship exist between the
Governor of the Commonwealth Bank and members
of the firm of Kirkpatrick; and, if so, what?
6. Is it a fact that one of the Kirkpatricks is a
brother-in-law of Mr. Denison Miller?
7. Is Mr. Miller’s son employed by the firm of
Kirkpatrick?
8. Is Mr. Miller’s son financially interested in
the firm of Kirkpatrick?
To which Joseph Cook replied:
1 and 2. The Governor of the Bank is being asked
to supply this information.
es > action will be taken under clause 22
of the agreement between the Commissioner and the
Governor of the Commonwealth Bank to submit the
matter to the arbitrament of the Commonwealth
Auditor-General.
4. Ihe cost of plans, specifications and supervision
of construction is a rightful addition to the capital
cost of the dwelling, but as to what proportion of
tne rate mentioned shall be charged depends upon
the arbitrament of the Auditor-General.
5,6, 7 and 8. I cannot say.
Joseph's incapacity for getting pertinent in-
formation that anyone else could obtain in
ten minutes is remarkable. However, his
reticence didn’t count in the final argument,
for the monopoly was attacked, on other
grounds, by the returned soldiers, and its
end was sudden. On July 22 Alec Poynton
told the inquiring Dr. Maloney that the
architectural staff (all returned soldiers)
on the Y\ ar Service Homes Commission would
in future attend to the design and construc-
tion of Digger Bill’s house. On September
.1 Millen announced that “the agreement
had gone,” and that the “Commissioner with
his own officers,” was “doing the work at a
figure for which no private architect would
undertake it.” Incidentally, lie stated that
“there has not been a single house erected
by the Commissioner which will not pass
muster; but I am sorry I cannot say the
same thing with regard to every house which
has been erected by the Bank under the
supervision of Messrs. Kirkpatrick and
Sons.” It was mentioned by Senator
Gardiner that J. and H. G. Kirkpatrick
had been responsible for 700 houses, and if
they got £24 10s. a house (£17,150 in all)
they were on a fine wicket, although it
didn’t last as long as they had reason to
expect.
* * * *
And the Kirkpatrick luck didn’t desert
them when the Federal Government said it
had had enough. By grace of the Labor
aldermen on Sydney’s amazing City Council
they have landed a monopoly even more
lucrative, and without the burdensome for-
mality of competitive tenders, or anything
of the sort. Whereas the Labor Representa-
tives—especially Blakeley and Maloney
—used to be their keenest critics, the Labor
aldermen have become their warmest
admirers, and have voted them a charter
worth £40,000 —in effect, a grant of other
people’s money—with a generosity marvel-
lous to behold. An extract from the Sun
of September 14 explains the case:—
By 14 votes to 7 the aldermen of the City Council
decided, at a meeting of the general purposes com-
mittee last night, to proceed with the scheme of
resumptions for the extension of Moore-street to
.Muequarie-street, and to retain Messrs. J. and 11. G.
Kirkpatrick, architects, to act in a supervisory
capacity at a fee of £40,000.
The proposal was supported unanimously by the
members of the Labor Party, though, with the
exception of Alderman lloldswortit, who moved an
amendment limiting the payment to Messrs. Kirk-
patrick to the sum specified, none of them took
part in the debate.
Alderman Hagon said that the scheme could have
been carried out in 1912, when he supported it, at a
cost of £450,000, whereas it would now cost
£1,000,000, and the rate of interest would be from
8 to 9 per cent.
Alderman Meagher said that Denison Miller,
Governor of the Commomvealth Bank, was strongly
in favor of the scheme, and would help to finance it.
The Sun is quoted because the Sun building
is included in the scheme of resumptions.
According to the Town Clerk, one of
the Kirkpatricks assured him that the
Sun Co. would not claim compensation for
business disturbance. The Sun’s 'reply is
that “Mr. Kirkpatrick was told in most
emphatic and express terms that dislodg-
ment would cost the company well over
£100,000,” aud on the subject of compen-
sation “was most definitely assured that a
very substantial demand would be made.”
The Town Clerk drily observes that if the
directors of the newspaper company waived
their right to compensation their proper
place would be Callan Park. He points out
that not only are the Kirkpatrick proposals
based on an “abnormally low estimate,” as far
as compensation is concerned, but in essentials
they are “not new or original by any means,
having received the endorsement of the
Royal Commission on City Improvements,
presided over by Thomas Hughes, M.L.C..
Lord Mayor in 1908” ; moreover “the scheme
has been under consideration by the City
Council on numerous occasions during the
past 15 years.” In effect, the whole thing
is familiar to the Council’s own trained offi-
cers, particularly the city architect and build-
ing surveyor, yet with a levity that is simply
astounding these men have been passed
over. Without reference to them or to the
general body of architects and in defiance of
Labor principles, the Labor aldermen have
presented J. and 11. G. Kirkpatrick with a
.monopoly worth £40.000. At a time when
money, labor and material are dearer than
ever before, and when the Council is hor-
ribly hard up, and there is a famine in
dwellings and offices, they have sanctioned a
gaudy scheme which will cost an enormous
amount of money and make the housing diffi-
culty a few streets worse than it is at presenf.
The joyous precipitancy with which they
have given their imprimatur to the insane
business is as remarkable in its way as the
luck of J. and H. G. Kirkpatrick, and that
is astonishing. But the most singular, and
most regrettable, feature of the insensate
proceedings is the suggestion of Alderman
Meagher that the Commonwealth Bank is
standing behind a fool-Council and its folly.
A HURRIED ELECTION.
The Theodore Government of Queensland
is hurrying on its general election six
months before any election is due, which for
a Government with a solid majority in both
Houses, a clear conscience, an unspotted
record and a great programme is unusual.
The event will be remembered as the First
Hurried Election in Australia Because the
Foreign Capitalist Refused a Loan. It may
seem undignified for an intensely democratic
Ministry which abhors the capitalist to rush
prematurely to its constituents in tears be-
cause the absentee monopolist refused to
lend it money on security that he regarded
as insufficient; but these things will happen.
This is not the first but the fourth Queens-
land loan that has failed in London, and


other States, notably Maoriland and Victoria,
have had their failures. They failed even
when they asked for a mere fraction of what
Theodore demanded, when they had far
better security to offer, and when the London
capitalist had far more to lend. In Queens-
land Macalister. Mcllwraith and Philp
all struck the trouble and made light of it.
Even while Theodore was doing his vain
attempt to borrow in London, Robinson of
Victoria was there on the same errand with
a hundred times better collateral to offer,
and with no better fortune. But what-
ever bad qualities the Premiers and
Treasurers who failed might have had, not
one of them dissolved Parliament on account
of his inability to cadge, or pervaded his
country saying that there was a deep-laid
conspiracy of devils and banshees against
him.
* * * *
And quite possibly even Theodore
could have got an ordinary sort of loan,
though Queensland's railways and other
public works are such a refuge for
the Government’s hangers-on that they hardly
pay working expenses, and though taxation
is already three times the average of that
of the other States. But the. kind of loan
which N. S. Wales recently raised wouldn’t
have kept him out of the workhouse for
three months, let alone until the legitimate
election day. It was therefore better to
make a great and impossible demand, in pro-
portion about thirteen times what N. S.
Wales considered a fair thing—and have a
great failure and a. great grievance. Theo-
dore with £1,500,000 of borrowed British
money in his hand would be a pauper again
by December, let alone April. Theodore as
a burning Christian martyr, who has been
refused accommodation through the plots of
the heathen, may secure a majority to fix
him for three years.
* * * #
It is no fault of the Queensland Ministry's
that its racial descent isn't likely to give it
much respect for the niceties of Parliamentary
government or the self-governing rights of
the people. It contains a strong Sinn Fein
element. Now. up to the time when the
estimable Irish citizen or the estimable Irish
citizen’s parents left Ireland. Parliament was
not to them a national institution, and in
all the hundreds of years since Parliaments
were invented it never had been. It was
a foreign and hostile institution that met
abroad, a thing to be tricked or bamboozled,
but never to be obeyed or respected. As for
the Central European racd represented by
Premier Theodore, it may be 100 years
before it fully fits into the Parliamentary
scheme or realises that genuine self-govern-
ment is more than a figure of speech. The
Huns and Russians and ’ composites who
are so strong and truculent in Queensland
look on the people’s Legislature as they
would on any similar body in their own old
countries—a sort of toy for chancellors,
revolutionists and adventurers to play with.
State government in Queensland consists
largely in having as many nominees or
ghosts on the roll as possible (nearly 90.000
new names got there recently in one sudden
jerk, and this at a time when population
was diminishing) and keeping tight hold of
the machine that votes the ghosts. With
better chances a Premier’s position might
be that of a Latin American. president of
the baser sort—a Barrios or a Lopez. It
is easy to elect such a person, but once he
has control of the electoral rolls and polling
arrangements, and has filled the Parliament
and the judiciary with his creatures, it is
very difficult to shift him. But with a
Federal authority in the background and a
British authority further back it is also
difficult to be the complete Barrios at a
mere State capital. The army isn’t in the
Government’s hands, the Federal Courts and
Parliament can’t be packed, and there is too
much publicity in consequence. Still the
present hysterical crowd should get one more
turn in power—with its control of the State
rolls and voting arrangements, its eloquence,
its energy, its ghosts, its unlimited promises,
the million it has raised from the Bank of
England (which should suffice for the elec-
tion), its burning grievance because Private
Enterprise didn't lend it £9,000.000, and the
airship with which the Premier is to tour
the electorates. Six months later the bot-
tom would probably have so fallen out of
things that even the airship wouldn’t save
the situation.
BOLSHEVISM REGARDED AS A
RELIGION.
It was at first assumed that Bolshevism was
merely a political movement; but on closer
inspection it proves to have all the brands
and earmarks of a religion, albeit it so far
lacks spiritual form. To begin with, there
is its Asiatic pedigree. All the great sects
we know of are of Asiatic descent, the nearest
approach to an exception being our own.
Christianity was certainly born in Asia, but
in a section which had been under partial
European settlement for a couple of thou-
sand years, had been under Greek control
or influence for 300 years at a time when
Greece still stood for the culture of the
world, and had been under Latin control for
the best part of a century. Bolshevism, on
the other hand, is typically Asiatic, like
Mohammedanism. It began in an empire
which was three-fourths Asia, whereas Rome
in the days of Pilate was very nearly all
European. Even the nominally European part
of Russia was quite recently ruled by Asiat-
ics, was largely over-run by Asiatics, and
was Asiatic in all its instincts and habits
till Peter the Great whitewashed it with
Europeanism and cut off its beard, after
which it remained much the same. With its
strange alphabet and other distinctions it
always stood apart from Latin ideas. So
Bolshevism may be classed as a sort of
Tartar faith —the first of its sort to threaten
the West. it
That it is a religion and not merely a
political policy can also be told by its dogma-
tism, its virulent infallibility, its intoler-
ance and its desire to send out missionaries
and rope in converts. Political creeds are
inclined to stay at home and keep the profits
to themselves. The militant church which
went out in barbarous days (and barbarous
days have never left off in Russia) seeking
souls to save had a short way with insuffi-
ciently-armed unbelievers. The dialogue
was something like this: —
Armed Missionary : “Do you believe absolutely in
the new creed, which is and always has been eternal
[this is obvious at a glance] ; which is alone correct
and infallible [this is still more obvious] ; which
supersedes all other doctrines, they being inventions
of the Devil [this is more obvious than all the rest
’put together] ; and to resist which is death here and
damnation hereafter [this sticks out a mile]?”
Heretic: “But I never heard of it.”
A.M.: “It is the kind of religion that must be
adhered to and obeyed whether you hear of it or
not.”
Heretic : “But what is it about ?”
A.M.: “It must be accepted whatever it is about
and even if it isn’t about anything.”
Heretic : “But I can’t see”
Biff ! Corpse !
Certainly there have been faiths that
didn’t pursue the spreading policy with
great vigor—that of Confucius, for
instance, which is more a philosophy than
a church, and Judaism, which rather dis-
likes converts, for the Hebrew regards his
people as a divinely-created house of spirit-
ual peers and has no desire to adulterate
the peerage by the admission of all sorts.
But much hydrophobic gospel, has been
solidly established by the biff-and-corpse pro-
cess. Bolshevism, like other aggressive
faiths, doesn't argue or show cause. It is
iconoclastic as a matter of course, and the'
gods it threatens or professes to pull down
embrace all people who don’t work with
their hands alone, all industrial organisers,
all thinkers save those who think about the
beauty of Bolshevism, and all persons sus-
pected of possessing wealth unless they shout
the proper shibboleths, in which case they
may have as much wealth as they please.
The gods it professes to raise up instead are
those human workers who have never learned
how to do things' to any profit save under
direction.
Then Bolshevism is Asiatic not only in
its violence and intolerance, in which it
resembles Mohammedanism, but in its under-
lying servility, which makes its raw-material
or cannon-fodder even more manageable than
the previous prophet’s Arabs. A revolution
of frenzied anti-aristocrats with a member
of the nobility as chief dictator; a con-
script army .of freedom led to a great extent
by officers of the old regime, many being of
“noble” descent, because the elected men
from the ranks were a failure; industrial
courts which sentence men who go slow on
-Government works to as much as 10 years’
hard labor, and compulsory toil on public
undertakings—all these things are very
Asiatic. So, apparently, are the Legisla-
tures, which seem as shadowy now as the
Parliaments of Persia, Turkey, China and
Japan, and the Legislature (if it ever really
met) of the Emir Feisal —the man out of
whom the Allies tried to make a Constitu-
tional King of Syria. The Asiatic has never
been much of a success at Parliamentary
Government; in fact, there appears to have
been an interval of about 70 years between
sessions of the old Hebrew Assembly of the
People, and when it dissolved in the time of
Reiioboam it dropped out of notice.
But this manageableness on the part of
the dumb, driven congregation may make the
Bolshevik Church all the more dangerous,
and its prophets have chances to spread
their doctrines far and wide which are quite
new. If Mohammed had been able to tele-
graph and cable his propositions all over
the world, and could have sent broadcast
by post the glad news that everyone who
accepted his creed, whether understanding it
or not, became entitled to the money and
goods and girls of the giaour, lie might (sup-
posing there had been a real world then)
have planted patches of furious Moslemism
at Broken Hill and Newcastle and Towns-
ville and lots of other places, including
Paris and London, and taken Christianity in
the rear. A new faith in other days pro-
gressed on foot or at most on horseback,
and sent its propaganda or its infection a
bowshot ahead, but no further. Now, like
a bush fire with a gale at the back, it can
send sparks far forward and light isolated
conflagrations.
That Bolshevism is a “sect” is made obvi-
ous by its unreasonableness, for it demands
that its claims shall be accepted without
proof, just as an old Calvinist might demand
acceptance of the doctrine of the damnation
of infants, or a Catholic that of Papal infal-
libility, or a.Mormon that of the inspiration
of the Prophet. Its curse power as regards
unbelievers is strictly sectarian, and the
Asiatic trend of its ideas is manifested in
its utter contempt for popular self-govern-
ment. It is solid on the fact that it has a
right to the property of those who don’t
subscribe to the doctrines of Lenin, what-
ever those doctrines may be at the moment,
or rather to its definition of them. The atti-
tude of its leaders in Australia in their out-
spoken moments is that of “the mines for
the miners,” just as other people might
demand the houses for the bricklayers or the
bank deposits for the bank-clerks. The
mines are to be taken from the large class
of people who found the money and brains
for their development when no one else
showed signs of wanting to develop them,
and who stood many losses (all the losses,
in fact) as well as realising profits, and who
contrive at least to provide new mines
as the old ones wear out. And they are to
be given, not to the nation —for nationalisa-
tion is now out of date with Bolsheviks—
but to another body of about the same size.
The idea is capitalism with a change of
capitalists, but with a difference for the
worse. The existing crowd is at least an
open body, for anybody can buy coal shares
or start new mines. The one demanded by
the “mines-for-the-miners” theorists would
be a close corporation like the Bricklayers’
Union, admitting or shutting- out whom it
chose, and creating chronic coal-famine as
the bricklayers and other building trades-
men have for years created house-famine.
Also, where the coal companies publish their
accounts and declare their dividends openly,
the close corporation of capitalistic unionists
would presumably be a dark secret, the
shutting out of the press being a habit in
Labor circles. There is something large
about the proposition that some 20.000 men
with no extra record for capacity or virtue
should receive as a right and a free gift the
power to control, to levy tribute on or
to suspend the industries and the very life
of over 5 000.000 people —to be 20,000 kings
or Lenins —but that is strictly where the
religious element comes in, though the claim-
ants may not have the intelligence to realise
it. Prophets of the wilder or baser sort —
Mohammeds and Rasputins and Lenins
and Brigham Youngs and Mahdis and
Mad Mullahs —get revelations quite as un-
reasoning as that. And when religion once
goes crazy it is impervious to any argu-
ment save a gun.
J. E.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Land Defence.
The Government’s land-defence scheme modi-
fies considerably the system embarked upon
nine years ago. It likewise modifies the
arrangement foreshadowed after the Armis-
tice. The Reserve is evidently not to be
the Commonwealth’s first line of defence: its
keenest and hence best members are to be
encouraged into the militia. A Citizen
Army will be raised and modelled, as regards
organisation, on the A.1.F.; and trainees
are to complete their military education
inside four years. The political necessity of
freeing these young men from the obligations
of service as soon as possible after they
have acquired the right to vote has been met,
in the interests of efficiency, by imposing a
10-weeks’ training course on them in their
first camp. Every soldier will applaud the
latter innovation. Full-blown drivers were
turned out by the thousand from the English
depots, during the war, inside six weeks.
This was because the training was not only
intensive but continuous. puring their
remaining three years trainees will do 16
days annually. But who will train the 250
18-year-old recruits per battalion who are
to come up for the long course every year?
Plainly the job can’t be done, unaided, by
the permanent adjutant and his three n.c.o.’s.
Equally plainly it can’t be entrusted to offi-
cers and n.c.o.’s who remained in Australia
during the war. The youthful Australian
doesn’t reason why on this issue, or listen to
any excuses: lie simply refuses to be handled
by non-starters. It is a psychological
obstacle which can only be surmounted by
insuring that the instructors are 100 per
cent. ex-A.I.F. men. It will not be easy to
secure non-regulars in large numbers on a
voluntary basis under any circumstances.
Most of the likeliest men have occupations
or responsibilities which they can’t easily
relinquish during about a quarter of every
year ; and there is only a handful to whom
peace soldiering appeals per se. If their
services are to be got they will need to be
paid, not as at present proposed on the old
militia basis, but on the minimum scale
which prevailed in the A.I.F. At present
many militiamen serve at* a dead loss. C.O.’s,
for example, are not reimbursed for the
administration work they do week by week
(service which should be recognised, here as
elsewhere, by “command pay”), and the pre-
cedent is apparently to be followed right
down the citizen force scale. The certain
effect must be, since nothing of any value
is to be got in bulk on the cheap, to vitiate
if it does not wreck the whole scheme.
Assuming a sufficient number of officers and
n.c.o.’s of the desired stamp find themselves
attracted by the pay and conditions gener-
ally, there will still remain the problem of
the bad employer. No Act of Parliament
will deter him from turning down the militia
volunteer in favor of the man who does not
need ten weeks off in a year—unless a public
sentiment is created on the question fully as
strong as that which existed in favor of
volunteering during the war. Probably the
best solution of the difficulties which are
bound to crop up in this connection is a
variant on a system which has worked well
in Canada. The Royal Canadian Dragoons,
the R.C. Infantry Regiment and the R.C.
Artillery are corps d’elite. Every man in
them is a prospective n.e.o. or officer, and
they set a standard for the rest of the
Canadian land forces. The best type of
ex-Digger does not take kindly to the gratui-
tous wearing of uniform, lie despises the
civilian who seizes every opportunity to drape
himself in the panoply of war. But the man
who bears arms as part of his permanent
job is immune from reproach; and there are
hundreds who will never in their lives be as
useful at anything as they were at soldier-
ing, with a longing to get back to the army
if they can do it on the old terms. Picked
Light Horse, Engineer. Artillery and Infan-
try units, composed of soldiers of this stamp,
would automatically constitute an ideal to
be reached after by the trainees. No man
should be enlisted unless he promised to
train on -into a staff sergeant-major, and the
best of the latter, as well as the officers,
should be available, on an E.D.P. basis, to
co-operate with the permanent men in the
handling of the trainees. It is probably
the cheapest means of surmounting a palpable
obstacle to the success of the Government’s
proposals: it is certainly the surest.
Pushing ’Em on the Land.
The incredible efforts made by certain
Laborites to push the largest number of
people into the precarious business of
farming are efforts to put the largest possible
number outside the blessings of the union
system and the range of new-union principles,
because these principles would break down
if applied universally. When one class is
sacrificed for the profit of another it has to
be a big class to make the business worth
while. The little farmer isn’t helped, propped
up and financed by people like Dooley and
Storey at ruinous expense to posterity be-
cause he is a landowner and an occasional
employer, for such men don’t waste their
sympathy on landowners and employers. He
is petted (always at the cost of posterity)
because he is a piece-worker, a long-hour
man, often a seven-day man, and always
an employer of child labor when he can get
it. By letting him be all these things it is
possible to gloss over the fact that no com-
munity can live wholly on the policy of short
hours, go-slow, noor work and frequent strikes,
but would die through not producing enough
food to fill its interior or enough clothes to
cover its outside. Some day, perhaps, the
wheat- and dairy- and small sheep-men may
take' up the stand of people in some other
trades. That is to say, their union will propose
to regulate the number of farmers, the number
of apprentice farmers, and the terms of their
admission to the sacred guild, the amount and
price of the output, the lowest wages due
to themselves. In fact, they may say that
an organised food shortage is as legitimate
as an organised house shortage and a meat
famine is as reasonable as a home famine.
Then things will come to a logical conclusion
or the whole apparatus of Labor extremism
will blow up. But meanwhile the land is a
convenient place to send those whom the
system has made superfluous and left dis-
inherited, and posterity—the institution
that is debited with war-loans and peace-
loans and repatriation and railway and land-
settlement loans—is a convenient person to
pay their passage.
• 4
Health and the Commonwealth.
The resolutions of the Australasian Medical
Congress have running through them a con-
tinual and insistent expression of the neces-
sity for replacing by a Federal Health
organisation the obsolete system—or lack of
system—under which the larger questions of
public health are at present mismanaged or
neglected. They a.sl< for a Federal Ministry
of Health to deal with the technical aspects
of the settlement of Tropical Australia, for
a Royal Commission to be appointed by the
Commonwealth Government to outline a cam-
paign of Preventive Medicine for Australia,
for the establishment of diagnosis laboratories
by the Commonwealth at all principal centres
of extra-metropolitan population, and for the
establishment of venereal-disease clinics by
tin* Federal Government. Three different
resolutions express appreciation of the
national value -of the Australian hookworm
campaign, and one recommends that its scope
be widened to include malaria and lilaria in
Tropical Australia. The Congress asks, further,
for systematic organisation of the. medical
profession under a Federal Health Depart-
ment, “so that every member of the profession
will have his part in the public health
organisation, and so that the closest co-
operation will exist between the administra-
tive medical officers and the medical practi-
tioner.” Incidentally, the Congress takes a
nasty swat at one State (Queensland) by
stating that it “desires to express its pro-
found dissatisfaction with the continue*!
absence in this State of any regulations to
enforce certain elementary, easy and much-
needed methods of preventing disease.” The
local smells appear to have been too strong for
politeness towards its host, but the sincerity
of the rebuke >s only made the more apparent.
Out of some 34 resolutions 20 involve repre-
sentations to the Commonwealth Government,
or action by that Government. When some 300
doctors can be got to agree on such a variety
of matters as this with reference to one
aspect of their job, and particularly when
not 5 per cent, of them are or can be
interested in it from any personal or selfish
point of view, it is pretty evident that the
collective and disinterested opinion of the
Australasian medical profession is that the
States are making a complete hash of such
public-health functions as they do not
wholly neglect. The remarkable antics of
the late N. S. Wales Government and
its scared myrmidons during the influenza-
politics of last year are still prominent in
the collective medical memory, and there
seems to also exist a strong idea that the
necessarily inquisitorial powers required for
effective control of venereal disease would be
better exercised by Commonwealth medical
officers than by State-controlled doctors
liable to the whims and fancies of any local
politician who happens to be shoved into the
job of Health Minister. .
- ♦
The Farmers’ Tools of Trade.
The Australian farmer is being appealed to
by the importers of American agricultural
machinery to assist in blocking the proposals
in the new Tariff. The importers’ tale is
pathetic enough to harrow up a corduroy
track. On Sept. 1 their travelling salesmen
were supplied with a new price list, in which
are set out the increased charges they are
compelled to make for the farmers’ tools of
trade and the impelling causes for advancing
the prices, particularly in the case of the
reaper and binder and the reaper-thresher.
These reasons are put up in handy propa-
ganda form for the traveller’s convenience,
and they are designed to effectually scare the
agriculturist into demanding that his Fed-
eral representatives shall at all hazards fight
the Tariff proposals. The wail opens in
this way:—
Before the war reapers and binders, mowers and
liayrakes were admitted into the Commonwealth
free of Customs duty. In 1914 they were made
dutiable under a war tariff. Under the 1920 Tariff
the duty on those machines and on reaper-threshers
imported during the present year has been doubled.
After January 1, 1921, the Customs duty
on reapers and binders, mowers and hayrakes will
be 50 p.c., while on reaper-threshers it will be. 44
p.c., to cover which the red prices have been pro-
vided.
The “red prices” are shown in the list, and
they are to come into operation after January
1 next. They provide for various increases
upon the prices ruling before the new Tariff
came in—on. sft. binders, £46 10s.; on 6ft.
binders, £47 10s.; on Bft. binders, £52; on
reaper-threshers, £5B. So much is in store
for the buyer next year. For the present
year, or what remains of it, the advance in
prices is not so staggering. It has been
decided to charge £9 more for the reaper-
harvester, £2O 10s. more for the sft. and 6ft.
binder, and £23 ss. more for the Bft. binder.
The new Tariff provides that the duty on the
reaper-threslier. which came in formerly
under a fixed duty of £l4, is to. be £l5, or
40 per cent, ad val., whichever yields the
higher revenue. On the reaper and binder
the duty for this year has been raised from
5 per cent, (the 1914 rate) to 10 per cent.
Provision is also made for a deferred duty,
• subject to strict conditions. On January 1.
1921, or at any later time if the Minister of
Customs is satisfied that the manufac-
ture of binders has been established in
Australia on a scale sufficiently large to
supply reasonable quantities, the duty is to
be £lO per machine, or 45 per cent., which-
ever yields the higher revenue. Obviously
the increases for this year in the prices for
binders and for reaper-threshers are not in
the same ratio. Before the new Tariff came
in the binder cost £77 10s. net cash, and the
reaper-thresher £204. The importers’ price


Vs Farmers'& Settlers' Co-operative Insurance Co. of A ustralia
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the hand.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
increase in the one case is 25 per cent, and in
the other about 4| per cent. Why? Further,
the increases in this year’s prices for binders
are altogether out of proportion to the in-
creased amount of duty chargeable this year.
Because an additional 5 per cent, has been
imposed on the invoice price of the machine,
£2O 10s. is added to the selling price! Why
was not the reaper-thresher price put up to
a correspondiu<r altitude? The only visible
reason is that the reaper-thresher is made in
Australia. Local competition keeps the price
down. No competition is anticipated in the
binder trade, so the price soars to the in-
finite —they charge what they choose. Here
is a comparison that tells its own story:
Pre-war price of the binder, £3B; present
(Sept. 1920) price, £9B— an advance of 158
per cent. Pre-war price of reaper-thresher,
£135; present price, £2l3— an advance of
58 per cent. The farmer is entitled to ask:
Is it because the importers have a monopoly
that this increase in binder prices is three
times as great as the increase they have made
in the reaper-thresher price? Also, why is
the announced price for the Oft. binder next
year to be £125, or 221 per cent, over the
pre-war price? However, the Australian-
made reaper and binder has emerged. It is
being manufactured, and the new machine is
on view in Melbourne. Further, the price
fixed is below wliat is now being charged for
the American binder. So that no matter
how high the duty’ may 7 be when Parliament
has dealt with the Tariff, the farmer will not
have to pay it.
»
Tropical Australia.
Richard Arthur, M.L.A., i,n his defence:—
“Brinjal” charges rnc with being an opponent -of
a White Australia. Nothing could be further from
the truth. I gave—l fear, wasted—some of the best
years of my life in a vain attempt to arouse the
people of the Commonwealth to the urgent need for
a, vast influx of immigration, so that Australia might
lie saved for the white races. What I did at the
Medical Congress was to question the findings of
the sub-committee on the ground that its conclusions
had been arrived at on insufficient evidence. It
is one thing to conclude that the persons examined
in Tropical Australia show no evidence of physical
deterioration; it is quite another to claim that
“there are no inherent or insuperable obstacles in
the way of the permanent occupation of Tropical Aus-
tralia by a healthy, indigenous white race,” and
that “the whole question is fundamentally one of
applied public health.” This statement is a very
comforting one; but is it true? I challenged the
believers in it to instance one case where there had
been permanent settlement of the Anglo-Saxon in
the tropics, and no one accepted the challenge, for
the simple reason that they could not. And yet
the experiment has been made. Three hundred years
ago large numbers of English and Irish colonists
settled in certain of the West Indian islands —Barba-
does, Montserrat and St. Vincent—where the climate is
comparatively mild and there is no malaria. Where
are the descendants of these now? They have died
out with the exception of a few constituting “the
mean whites” so graphically described by Sir
Frederick Treves —a degenerate, spiritless race.
What is pigment for if it is not to protect the
protoplasm of the body from the. actinic rays of
the sun? For this reason I have suggested that
Southern Europeans', Spaniards from Malaya, Maltese,
Southern Italians, etc., should be encouraged to
settle on the coastal areas of Tropical Australia in
the hope that they might have a better chance
of persistence. It is no use believing what we wish
to believe. We must face the facts, and they are
that, though Northern European races have migrated
all through known history to tropical regions, they
have all sooner or later disappeared.
And the fact remains that, possibly recog-
nising that hygienic science has made some
, progress in recent years—permitting the
Panama Canal to be constructed without
any loss of life worth mentioning, for
instance —the Medical Congress carried the
quoted resolution by an overwhelming
majority.
+
The Modern Value of Rifle Shooting.
Captain Dakin, secretary of the National
Rifle Association, returns the fire:—
The “ex-permanent officer of wide experience,” in
his ‘remarks on rifle-shooting (B. 9/9/’2O), would
have appealed less to the lay mrnd had he been
more accurate ; but like a great many other officers,
permanent and otherwise, accuracy does not interest
him when it is a question of giving the rifle clubs
a dig. Fortunately, there are other officers of
wide experience who hold the opposite view, and
as they know something about accurate rifle-shooting
and its value on active service, they believe in arm-
ing the soldier with the world’s most accurate
weapon, and teaching him how to use it. Lord
Roberts, for instance, said that no other qualifica-
tion in the soldier would make up for lack of
knowledge in rifle-shooting. Major-General Holmes,
writing shortly before he was killed in France,
deplored the fact that many men were sent to the
Front with an incomplete knowledge of the rifle
with which they were armed. Lieut.-Colonel Black-
low, of Sydney, one of Australia’s best marksmen,
speaks in glowing terms of the work of the rifle
clubs and thgir relation to active service conditions
of shooting.
Reference was made to the rifle clubman’s use of
“non-service rifles, sights and slings and his own
vintage of ammunition.” It was not, however,
pointed out that the rifles in use by the ciubs are
of the same pattern as those which are issued by
the Defence Department, viz., long magazine Lee-
Enfields. With regard to the sights, those in use
are an aid to more accurate work, as were the
telescopic sights which were freely used at the
1' ront. The statement, ''his own vintage of ammuni-
tion,” is apparently a deliberate attempt to mis-
lead, for the ammunition used is issued by the
Defence Department, and if a marksman has a
preference for ammunition of a certain year it is
because that ammunition is superior to other issues.
It is a well-known fact that the quality does vary
considerably.
The remarks about the number of rifle-club
members who enlisted during the war need not be
taken very seriously. Over 90 per cent, of the
eligible men did actually enlist, and a large number
of those who were not eligible offered their services
in other directions, and in many cases were accepted.
Summed up, the position is this. The members
of clubs go to a very considerable personal expense
to perfect themselves id rifle shooting; many of them
purchase their own weapons, but these are identi-
cally the same pattern as those issued by the Depart-
ment. They voluntarily continue the work all the
year round, and at the present time they constitute the
only part of the Commonwealth Military Forces
that can be mobilised with any degree of rapidity.
1 admit they do most of their shooting at fixed tar-
gets at known distances; but they also carry out
service matches as part of their programme. When
the war was in full swing a copy of the service
matches conducted by the N.R.A." of N.S.W. was
forwarded to Colonel Rosb, of the Anzac School of
Musketry in France (he is regarded as a great
musketry expert), with a request that in the light
of his war experience he should point out any
defects in the conditions of,the matches. He replied
that he had gone carefully into the matter and liad
passed the programme round to other experts, and
they all agreed that the conditions of the matches
AFTER THE WRECK.
THE WRECHER: “What am I going to do now ?”
HIS MENTOR: "Oh, that's a simple matter. You take over the ship and run it yourself
were all that could be desired from a service point
of view. If he chooses, “Ex-Peumanent Officer” may
call it a sport, or a pleasant, desultory open-air
pastime ; but of one thing there is no doubt at all —
the average member of a rifle club is a more accurate
and a more rapid shot" under all conditions than the
average member of any other branch of the Defence
Force.
♦
The Deadly Sin of Fuss.
Dear Bulletin, —There are seven deadly
sins and the eighth is Fuss. Of late there
has been too much Fuss, especially in N. S.
Wales. One lamentable sample began when
a young woman—young, but quite old enough
to have a vote and manage her own affairs
—resigned her job and changed her lodgings.
The job was apparently a domestic servant’s
affair—dish-washery, scrubbery, and other
indooy sundries. My own hired female —
when I have one, which is almost never—
departs constantly. She leaves twice as
often as she comes. Do I raise a huge,
clumsy public scandal, and get the absconded
Phyllis arrested on a charge of lunacy,
and rush her into court, and do strange
solicitors and barristers whom she says she
doesn’t know and doesn’t want appear for
her with instructions that have dropped from
the clouds, and is the case enshrouded in
mystery and hauled here and there like an
ape being dragged backwards through a
thorn-bush by the leg? I don’t—they don’t
—it isn’t! I don’t even cable to the woman’s
brother to thrown up his billet in Spitzbergen
and hasten here regardless of time and ex-
pense and save the situation, or call on him
to “take charge” of a full-grown, able-bodied
woman with no charge against her. Breath-
less messengers don’t arrive at my “palace”
—in fact, I don’t call the humpy a palace—
with news that my fled cook has “taken
refuge” somewhere and has good friends who
will die in the last ditch on her behalf. If I
thought any such persons were coming I
would put the ash-barrel in the gateway for
them to fall over. No domestic of mine has
ever left in her nightdress, though she may
have left taking nightdresses that didn’t be-
long to her. We do these things without
Fuss when the clerical atmosphere is absent.
Only a big, unhandy person of the sort that
wears a skirt when on duty on Sundays
would have turned an ex-household help
(that seems to have been the “escaped nun’s”
position) into a public question and set the
dogs worrying the dry bone of sectarianism
afresh till the pavement was littered with
debris. Sleeping dogs should be allowed to
lie—especially as they don’t tell the truth in
any case. I take a languid interest in the
affair because of a report that the young
woman worked as much as 10 hours a day
Avith no regular wage or afternoon off, but
if she won’t bring the matter before an in-
dustrial Court I can do nothing and I see no
good in Fuss Avhere no results can be ex-
pected. Fuss is a deadly, lumbering, ungainly
sin, and clericalism of the earnest sort appears
to be more Fuss than anything else. Ever
since I Avas a boy in a small English toxvn,
where feeling ran so high among tAvo
branches of petty Dissenters that a Baptist
parson, toiling for £5O a year, Avas thrown
into the river, it has been my opinion that
all kinds of sects suffer from St. Vitus’s
dance.—Yours, etc., Henry Horsecollar.
The Four Enemies.
Dear Bulletin,—ln spite of all the talk
about the secondary consequences of syph-
ilis, cancer is a far greater enemy. No man
need, unless in exceptional circumstances,
catch syphilis .unless he likes, whereas the
only way to surely avoid cancer is to die
of something else before it attacks one. The
four great enemies in their order are tubercle,
cancer, alcohol and syphilis, though many
well-informed persons would put alcohol
higher up the list. The are all becoming less
potent except cancer. “Ballarat” (B.
!)/9/’2O) repeats ancient legends which
have long since become obsolete. I cannot
understand why, as soon as anyone starts
to write popularly about syphilis, he imme-
diately drops into a sensational and hysteri-
cal style more worthy of Marie Corelli
than of a serious discussion of* a serious sub-
ject. All this about “rotting” and other
alleged horrors refers, if to anything, to
half-treated syphilis, such a s used to be' seen
years ago, but has no relation to present
circumstances. The scientific fact is that
syphilis is the most curable of diseases, and
if a man cares to take the trouble to put
himself under competent treatment, and to
carry out that treatment loyally, there is no
reason why he should not become absolutely
cured. Nor need his wife or his children
ever suffer in the slightest degree. Letters
like “Ballarat’s” reflect ancient opinions,
and have done a great deal to cause that
syphilitic hypochondriasis which is the
greatest enemy of the doctor in the
treatment of the disease. It is true
that even a properly treated case may
leave behind it a tendency to thicken
the arteries, but the same may be said of
50 other things. Some people have accused
even the supposedly harmless fevers of child-
hood, such as measles and scarlet fever, of
precisely similar crimes; but the truth is
that no one knows what causes the arteries
to become thickened. Over-eating, over-smok-
ing. too much tea and coffee, worry, hard
work, not enough work, constipation, over-
exercise, not enough exercise, too much fat,
not enough fat and every conceivable or in-
conceivable thing—especially the things
which make life worth living—have all been
blamed ; .but heredity, alcohol and old age are
unquestionable causes. In spite of jnuch
loose talk to the contrary, the great spreader
of syphilis is the prostitute. The six-o’clock
closing is a protection to young men, because
Lilith generally plies her trade in the even-
ing, and I hold very strongly that the aver-
age decent man, except when under the influ-
ence of alcohol, is perfectly well able to give
her the go-by. In case of a fatal accident
a wise coroner always asks the suspected
culprit not “Were you drunk?” but “Had
you been drinking?” so well appreciated is
the fact that even one glass of alcoholic
drink tends to upset the judgment. If we
could remove from young people the tempta-
tion to drink, there would soon be less V.D.
I inadvertently stole the pseudonym “Mac-
quarie Street” from a gentleman who has
contributed many charming paragraphs, and
thus fathered upon him my unhysterical
views. I apologise, and now sign myself
Our Blessing—or Our Curse.
Concerning our inheritance in the North :
W. K. Mackinnon and W. T. Manifold, Victorian
graziers with squattages in West Queensland, and H.
11. Peck, a Melbourne stock and station agent who
handles Kidman’s stuff in Vic., recently completed
a 2260-mile motor-run to Alice Springs and round
about the Maedonnell Ranges. They have come back
to Melbourne convinced that the North-South line
ought to have been put through long ago. Apart
from mineral possibilities ami the, good stock
country that would be opened up they consider
that big things in irrigation might be done in the
Macdonnells. The lower ends of the gorges which
the rivers have cut through the ranges could be
easily and cheaply blocked, so as to form natural
reservoirs. The winter climate is nearly perfect,
and even hot summers are tolerable, the altitude
being nearly 2000 feet above the sea. There is a
10-inch rainfall at Alice Springs. No doubt it is
higher on the ranges and there is a good run-off
from the steep slopes. Talk of irrigation in the
centre of the continent may seem midwinter madness
to those who regard Australia as a desert partly
surrounded by oases, but that is how the alleged
dead heart struck three elderly gentlemen who know
something about inland Australia, and a very great
deal about agriculture.
G. A. llobler, Commonwealth railway engineer,
has an equally high opinion of Northern Westralia!
He travelled 6565 miles by steamer, motor-car, rail-
way and motor-boat in that section of tropical Aus-
tralia, and muses regretfully on its idle grassland,
its unworked mineral belts, its fine but neglected
land-locked harbors, and its splendid river system.
In Yampi Sound there are two islands estimated by
a conservative Government geologist to hold
93,000,000 tons of the richest iron ore. Yet there
isn’t a mile of railway in the Kimberleys, and the
population is not much more than 1000. Hobler
reckons that apart from cattle and sheep, in which
there is room for immense expansion, there is a
vast field for tropical and semi-tropical agriculture
both in the Kimberleys and in the N.-W. Division
farther south, and declares that this part of Aus-
tralia could supply a population vastly greater than
the Commonwealth’s with coffee, tobacco, jute-goods
and a host of other things riow imported.
It might be expected that these glimpses of a
new empire in the North, to be won }nd held for
Australia, would stir the imagination even of the
distracted and mostly dull persons who compose the
Federal Ministry; but there isn’t any evidence of
it. They burble along with their little intrigues and
worries, and the part of the North for which they
are directly responsible goes from bad to worse.
•
The Speck’s new Water Bill, which seeks
to define riparian rights and bring legisla-
tion on the subject up to modern standards,
passed the Assembly without serious opposi-
tion, but met with a sudden check in the
House of Landlords. In the latter Chamber
the indignation expressed at the proposal to
interfere with any landowner’s absolute
ownership of every drop of water in every
creek-bed on his holding sounded like a snort
from. the sarcophagus of Old Vandemonia.
Despite the fact that Attorney-General
I ropsting and other Ministerial sup-
porters forcibly pointed out that landowners
had no more right to all the water in their
creeks than they had to all the stars above
their heads, and clearly showed that the
provisions of the Bill represented the mildest
possible method by which community rights
m water could be preserved, the ultra-Tories
managed to postpone a vital clause of the
measure. The situation was so grotesque
that even the Mercury, which for half a
century has upheld the Council as the em-
bodiment of political wisdom, was moved to
shake a warning forefinger at the Tories,
and agitatedly implored then} to consider
the incitement their action was likely to
give to revolution, Bolshevism and the like.
Uf course the valiant old ghosts have no fear
of anything mere revolutionaries may do;
but the fact that the serene atmosphere of
the Legislative Council might be disturbed
m the struggle is a matter for grave con-
sideration. So there will probably be a bit
of more or less. dignified backing’-down of
the violently-indignant ones. Bicameralism
must be maintained at whatever cost!


A strong, virile nation needs strong, virile
tasks on which to bend its energies. The
Iron and Steel Industry opens up such a
field of endeavor for Australian Manhood,
providing work that develops and fosters
self-control, initiative, stamina and force
of character.
The Australian
Iron and Steel
Industry
would give employment at Australian rates of pay (if
all the Iron and Steel goods imported into Australia
were made by our own people) to not less than
30,000 MEN,
wHo would earn over
£5»000,000 per year.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Senate made a poor show of its
attempt to pacify the Northern Territory.
It decided that the scheme of giving the
great Emptiness a senator,. with a right to
speak, but not to vote —an old device in the
United States —would satisfy nobody, and
that a full-blown senator for 1000 electors
would be ridiculous. So it resolved that
the best thing would be to put the big land
of lost opportunities and scandals and brass-
hats back where it wa.s years ago, and make
it, for voting purposes, a part of S. Aus-
tralia —which is a thing S. Australia has a
right to have a word about; for it obvi-
ously and perhaps unconstitutionally reduces
S. Australia’s representation in the Senate.
The Territory badly wants to be joined on
to S. Aus., but the link required is a rail-
way, not a .senator.
Some of the results of prolonged inquiry
laid before the Australian Medical Congress
in Brisbane make it look as if a blunder has
been made by the supporters of a black Aus-
tralia. and that it is really the cold variety
of climate which damages the white man.
The rejections for the A.I.F. amongst all
recruits from Townsville, Darwin, Bowen.
Cairfis and Mackay districts averaged, for
the four years of the war, 22 per cent. The
rejections amongst British manhood, in over
two million men, for non-attainment of full
physical and mental standards, averaged 64
per cent. In other words, out of every nine
inhabitants of the Cold Country only three
were quite fit and healthy, whereas out ojf
every nine men from the Awful North seven
reached the active-service standard. The
British rejections depended mostly on the
results of rickets, tuberculosis and under-
feeding in childhood, attractions which are
conspicuously absent in Tropical Australia.
Robinson and Theodore simply found that
London is too full of unpaid bills to have
room for “floating” visitors.
Lawson will favor a rise of at least £l5O
a year for Vic. Assembly members, making
the screw £450 or more. And at the same
time he ought to consult the people about
reducing the membership by one-third.
It is expected that the War-time Profits
tax this year will yield £4,000,000. In the
United "Kingdom the expectation is
£300.000,000. With one-ninth of Britain’s
population and a slightly higher rate of
taxation, the return here might have been
expected to be about £34,000,000, but it
isn’t —through lack of big industries to pro-
fiteer on. On the population basis it seems
that Australia might have £30,000,000 more
revenue if it had big profiteers who are
bad, instead of small politicians who are
worse. Its rulers are a great success at
preventing Private Enterprise making big
money, but a bigger one at not making it
themselves for the people’s benefit.
Dr. Billy Maloney, M.H.R., w’hen he says
he hopes to live to see the politician the best-
paid professional man in the country, longs
also, The Bulletin trusts, for the day
when the politician will get through bis work
with the precision and certitude of the civil-
engineer, and will be_ requred to be qualified
for his task as the engineer is.
The Queensland Premier talks of floating
a local loan, seeing that London didn’t pour
£9.000,000 upon him; but unless lie per-
suades N. S. Wales. Victoria and S. Aus.
to come in, prospects are not brilliant. The
Federal loan was better than anything Theo-
dore can offer, but Queensland’s response
suggested a heavy heart and an empty
pocket. Victoria put up £5 16s. 3d. per in-
habitant: S. Australia, £4 17s. lOd.; Tas-
mania, £4 165.; N.S.W., £4 14s. Od.; Queens-
land only £3 12s. lid.
To provide a Government for the former
German possessions in New Guinea and else-
where, taken over by Australia under the
League of Nations, Hughes last week intro-
duced a bill Which proposed among other
things “forced labor for essential public
works and services, and then only for
adequate remuneration.’’ The suggestion
provided a heated evening for Joe Cook,
who was naturally asked to define
“"dequate remuneration,” and also indicate
NOT TO BE TEMPTED.
THE SPIRIT OF HARD WORK: “All this I will give you if you will serve we.”
THE TIRED ONE : "Gam! I know you. You're the very Devil."
the amount of force that would be used on
any nigger who failed to see the beauty of
a Gubment job. Cook didn’t explain either
to the comfort of his mostly-Labor critics,
who further warmed the debate by holding
that the provision for “forced labor” was
actually contradicted by a previous section
declaring that “the slave trade is prohibited
in the Territory.” The implication was too
much for Cook’s fortitude, and he was soon
shouting at the enemy with a rising tem-
perature. However, all of his noise about
the Government’s good intentions was
wasted, for when the Labor attitude
received support from Fowler, Lamond and
other Nationalists, the objectionable clause
was hurriedly withdrawn.
“Cocky’s Wife”: That’s it —push them on
the lanck and suck them dry when you get
them there. In three yehrs we. have had
one crop spoiled by rain, half a crop (the
rain was scarce) and no crop at all
(drought). The only public entertainment
I have been to in the three years was a
travelling picture-show (twice). But I
have to order all my requirements by post-
even the occasional butcher’s meat. There
are, I know, thousands more in the country
like me. And what now? For the benefit
of the pampered suburbanite the Federal tax
on picture-shows and other cheap entertain-
ments has been or is to be abolished; but
the postage, which hits the country people
especially, goes up. It isn’t only unfair;
to us, who have to look twice at every
ha’penny, it is simply cruel.
After sounding constituents in Capri-
cornia (Q.), Higgs has joined the Nation-
alists, thus giving that party a majority of
one over the other, two combined. Hughes
now breathes more easily, and Higgs and
Speaker Johnston feel a good deal happier.
Iliggs looked uncomfortable as a party of
one without the right of entree to any
caucus, but his position was not so disturb-
ing as that of Johnston, who must have
often trembled at the prospect of dropping
his dignity'in an equal division and becom-
ing a party hack to prevent a Government
defeat. Once or twice lately it appeared as
if his help would be needed, but fortunately
a couple of waverers turned the right way
at the critical moment.
Hague, Minister for Railways in S. Aus.,
has been telling the local’Assembly how coal-
strikes and go-slow are driving work out of
the country. The Department urgently wanted
a particular brand of car-engines, and local
manufacturers pressed for a chance. They
were given a contract to deliver 25 in
February—and not one has been handed over
yet. In desperation three months ago an
order was placed in the and a whole
60 have been delivered already.
Melbourne’s Fair Profits Commission,
which is to conclude its waste of time and
money at tly> end of the year, examined the
chairman of the Associated Stock and Sta-
tion Agents re the cost of meat: —
The Commission: “Can you hold out to consumers
any comfort with regard to a reduction in meat
prices in the near future?”
Witness: “Not for beef—and certainly Mot until
next year. The supply of beef would be so limited
until next year that the demand for it would absorb
all available supplies and prevent a fall in price.”
This was accepted as a perfectly satisfactory
answer. But look at it. Human appetite
for meat remains normal; but because of the
wealth of paper money in the land con-
sumers are buying all they want at the
advanced prices asked for it; and their bare
ability to pay the demanded price, says the
butcher, will prevent a reduction.
George Fuller, of N. S. W.ales. has
expressed his regret that “men of means and
attainments should lounge around the clubs”
while mere adventurers and hoodlums run
the State. Fuller should have seen to it.
when he was in power. Men of attainments
and gentle instincts, even if they have no
means and no clubs, dislike politics, especi-
ally as practised in Fuller’s State, for two
reasons. They don't like to be or to near
others blackguarded, maligned and fishfagged
by persons whom they can neither give the
he to (though that wouldn’t help much)
nor suppress m a civil or criminal court-
against whom, in fact, they have no remedy
except the poor one of sinking to the others
level. And they don’t like to have to listen to
the crude ravings of infantile economists any
more than a learned professor would like to
spend his days teaching the alphabet in a
primary school. If Fuller, next time he is
in office, won’t institute a stiff educational
test for candidates he might at least make
the man who Billingsgates his fellow-mem-
ber responsible to the law ; and then he will
get a fresh deal.
One of the fountains of misinformation
who arp entrusted with the municipal affairs
of Sydney—Bramston by name —recently
quoted large masses of mathematics to prove
that “on. the basis of the wealth and produc-
tion of Australia they could reduce hours to
36 per week and increase wages by 50 per
cent., and that is what the workers are going
to get.” If a man, instead of working 4S
hours for 965., works 36 hours for 50 per
cent, more (1445.), it is doubling the wages.
And if Australia is so rich that it can afford
to double everybody’s pay in one jerk, why
can’t the place stop borrowing and pay off
some debt?
The Argus can easily fill a column with
arguments against establishing the woollen
industry on a large scale in Australia, and
it could also fill the same space with as
good reasons against eating without inducing
a single soul on God’s earth to voluntarily
starve to death. But one conclusion it comes
to —one that tells strongly against the folly
of Australians in presuming to make provi-
sion for their own old age, when good, kind ,
manufacturers abroad are always so anxious
to do it for them —is the assurance that if
a profit of 141 per cent, is made “there will
be an immediate loud protest from a certain
section of the public.” This is probably a
fact; wherefore the Australian manufac-
turers will probably try to manage on
the paltry 140 per cent, profit which so many
of the importers are perishing on to-day.
Short shrift was given by the Vic. House
of Fatmen to Labor’s bill, submitted by J. P.
Jones, providing for electing three members
of the Assembly for each Federal electorate
on the proportional voting system, and for
liberalising the Upper House franchise. Only
the four Laborites voted for the second read-
ing. The other 17 members who made up
the House at the time did the booting-out.
Frank Clarke, who led for the Ministry, con-
tended—with some force, too —that it is a
Ministry’s job to bring down a redistribu-
tion-of-seats scheme in the House mainly
affected. But why doesn’t it?
A spotlight on a chronic deficiency':—
Westralia is beginning to understand why it has
a deficit of £4,342,000. In 1912, the lvalgoorlie-
Port Augusta railway being then under construction,
the Scaddan Government lavished a pile of loan-
money on the repurchase of city property, as a start
towards extending the 4ft. 84in. line to Perth.
Having squandered £lOO,OOO or so on shacks' for
which it had no use apart from the railway, the
Government changed its mind about the 4ft. 8-Jin.
extension, and the interest on the resumptions has
been beating the rents out of sight ever since.
Among the premises acquired were those of a news-
paper, and in a burst of generosity the adminis-
tration allowed it £5BOO for a seedy old Hoe press.
For eight years the machine stood idle in an expen-
sive building (the building was idle too until a
few railway clerks caipe along to dispute possession
with the rats) ; but recently the newspaper proprietor
(he is also an M.L.A.) bought it back. The sum
is less than two years’ interest on what the Govern-
ment gave for the venerable ruin. In effect, the
asset has vanished, but the anguished taxpayer will
have to go on finding interest for another 12 or 13
years, and then Cohen will demand his £5BOO back.
Hayseed sees it coming and is getting dis-
turbed. W. C. Hill, President of the Vic.
Farmers’ Union, warned the Bendigo Con-
ference to beware of sectarianism, which
“warped the minds of all classes,” and, if it
had its way. would wreck the Hayseeds’ own
movement.
THE NATION BUILDERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I don’t mind if the whole city is rebuilt.”
—Sydney alderman.
Pull down the stones, remove the bricks;
Then build them street by street anew.
The gentle tide that slowly licks
The harbor front with tongues of blue
Will raise no murmur of reproof
At altered wall and changing roof.
Commerce is great. The wheels of trade
Run up the steepest grades of time.
The P in progress must be made
A capital in stone and lime.
Build, build and build, then build, again;
The path is straight, the method plain.
Beyond the sunset and the hills
The wide bush calls for eager hands;
New-hearted with great rains it spills
A heedless wealth on empty lands.
It cries aloud—-and cries in vain—
“ Break me and build me up again.”
What ails the loud insistent thing?
What use to hear the empty cry ?
Up with the bricks. The golden Spring
Lifts us a dozen storeys high.
Let the bush wait. It must not stay
The Progress of our splendid day.
We know the prophet’s warning tricks.
He tells of Memphis flat and lone,
Of Babylon with scattered bricks,
And Carthage left with scarce a stone —■
Would he have public money spent
To put our Progress in a tent?
We count the value of the land
In sandstone blocks and asplialt ways.
Some sheep there are, we understand,
And pastures where the cattle graze.
Forget them. Wealth grows in the town
By building up and pulling down.
K.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.
THE KITE-FLYING PREMIER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“lii order to cover as much ground as possible
before election-day, Premier Theodore (Q.) is travel-
ling by aeroplane.”
In days so Roman and remote
That no one their return importunes,
J. Caesar ventured in a crazy boat
His fortunes.
So Theodore, the Premier set
By D. Maekinnon on a high plane,
Selects, to bear his country’s pride (and debt),
A biplane.
A precious freight; so be .not rash,
O pilot of the purple twilight!
Contrive to dodge impediments, and bash
No skylight.
Remember, in those airy heights,
He found the medium unpropitious
In London, where his luck in flying kites
Was vicious.
N.S.W.
D. E.


KHOO KHAN AND THE KANGAROO.
“Federal Treasurer Cook submitted his Budget to the House of Representatives last week.”
AUSTRALIA (to Khoo Khan): “Couldn’t you possibly find room for a little thing like this?”


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd
Registered
BHAS'
Brand.
Producei*s of iJead in the following forms— W
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of —
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products
Antimonial Lead. Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses. Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL. Manager. T. H. SEARS, Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. J. SMITH. London Manager and Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
It. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW
The Standard of Quality throughout the En^plre.
’
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
Lower the cost of production by using the famous
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTIN'
Made in Australia to suit Australian working conditions., and
guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON Ltd.,
Pioneer Tanners & Leather Belt Makers, 117 York St., SYDNEY
Interstate Agents:
VICTORIA: J. & R. E.
Madder, Flinders Fane
and Market Street,
Melbourne.
QUEEN SLAND: Hoey,
Fry & Co., Edward
Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA: Charles
Davis, Etd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
W.A.: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
S.A.: John Me Kell,
Timpson Street, Port
Adelaide.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The most unsatisfactory point in Joseph
Cook's rather satisfactory Federal Budget
was the attempt to proYe that the note issue
isn’t inflated, and that even when it is more
inflated, as the Government proposes it shall
be, it still won’t be inflated. So long as 41
per cent, of the issue consists of one-
thousand-pound notes which nobody uses,
which the banks that hold them are not
allowed to use, which were forced on the
institutions in return for their depositors
good money as a loan without interest, the
currency is a bubble to that extent, and no
polite evasions will get away from the fact.
At July 15 this year the note issue included
£23,000,000 of these 10-century paper
counters, and the gold reserve against the
whole issue was £23,658,092 —enough to
redeem objectionable paper and leave
£52,092 to protect the £33,343,030 of legiti-
mate paper; say one-third of a penny in the
£. A note issue of which 62 per cent, is
held by the banks, largely under compulsion
because the public has no use for it, and of
which 41 per cent, is held in a form which
the public couldn’t use, anyhow, requires a
lot of explanation. No one ever contem-
plated the issue of .thousand-pound notes
until the war began. They weren’t finance ;
they were desperation. Now it is proposed to
make the inflation permanent, and to make it
worse by increasing the quantity of paper
that the banks must hold—to increase the
pile of thousand-pound or perhaps million-
pound notes. The public interest lies in the
fact that the more notes are issued in excess
of the public need the higher prices go. They
rise in proportion to the inflation or ahead of
it.
* * * *
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney),
station-produce salesmen, etc.: —•
Reserves
transferred
Jane, Profits. Dividends. to Capital. Reserves.
1908. .£8,277 10 p.c. = £5,500 £11,832
1909.. 13,845 10 „ „ 5,500 £5,000 15,177
Property written up, £lO,OOO .. 25,177
1910.. 19,859 10 p.c. = 6,000 15,000 24,036
1911.. 17,509 10 „ „ 7,500 10,000 24,405
1912.. 14,793 10 „ ~ 8,500 5,000 25,338
1913.. 20,438 10 „ „ 9,000 10.000 26,776
1914.. 25,315 10 ~ ~ 10,000 42.091
1915.. 25,366 10 „ ~10,000 20,000 37,457
1916.. 21,700 124,. ~ 15,000 44,157
1917.. 24,210 124 „ „ 15,000 53,367
1918'.. 27,752 124,, ~ 15,000 66,119
1919.. 26,276 124,, „ 15,000 10,000 67,395
1920.. 33,970 124 „ ~ 16,250 20,000 65,115
During the past 12 months this co. had one
of those phenomenal runs liable to be ex-
perienced by a concern which is hitched to
the erratic pastoral industry. Practically
everything went its way. First compare its
Flemington yardings during recent years:—
1916-7. 1917-8. 1918-9. 1919-20.
Cattle.. . 149,457 146,906 175,553 281,233
Sheep . . 1,703,663 1,754,303 2,667,914 3,962,551
Severe drought conditions, forcing pastoral-
ists to market their stock in any old condition
rather than risk having rotting carcases on
their hands, were responsible for that greatly
increased turnover. Naturally, this activity
at the saleyards resulted in P., S. and B.
bagging an exceptionally large lot of com-
missions. Over the same period (1916-20)
the number of bales of wool handled each
year has grown in this way : 38,823 ; 49,147 ;
55,846 ; 51,967 ; 60,421. Last year’s greasy
fetched £22 Is. 6d. per bale compared with
£2l Is. 3d. for the previous 12 months, while
prices of scoured per bale improved from
£2l 9s. 4d. to £24 11s. 9d. There again the
co. scored heavily by way of commissions.
Meantime, owing to the unprecedented de-
mand for skins and furs and the extra-
ordinary prices which they commanded for
a time, the value of the turnover in the pro-
duce department was double that of the pre-
vious year. At the same time unusual
activity in property and stock sales has also
helped earnings. So it is not surprising that
disclosed gross profits moved from £76,592 for
1919 to £94.264 for the past year, and that
the admitted earnings were 50 p.c. more than
they were four years ago.
The latest disclosed net profit represents a
return of 26 p.c. on paid capital. Twelve
months ago bonus scrip was issued against
£lO,OOO of reserves; now a further £20,000
of reserves are being extracted for the same
purpose. Within the past five years the
share register has been expanded from
£lOO,OOO to £150,000 in this way. The co.
has been a wonderful money-spinner for the
old hands who have held on to scrip during
the past score of years—and that goes back
to a time when the Pitt-Badgery landscape
was not all blossoms; for some years the co.
was nursing a string of sick western N. S.
Wales foreclosures. But after the recovery
from the big 1902 drought it has hoisted an
extraordinary record. Fourteen years ago
paid capital was £50,000, 100,000 £1 shares
paid to 10s. each. In 1907 Is. per share
was called up. The remaining 9s. per share
was gradually paid out of reserves; and
though, after the latest transfen, £95,000 of
bonus capital will have been tacked on to the
£55,000 paid capital shown in 1907, there
still remain reserves, apart from accretions
resulting from the writing up of property
some vears ago, in excess of the old paid
capital. The record is the more dazzling
because of the exceptional security afforded
the whole of the enlarged paid capital. At
the latest balance there was no less than
£50,000 in War Loan, and that was ample to
more than cover the entire outside liabilities.
This leaves the co.’s fine freehold property
(book value, £125,092) and book debts
(£98,943) to represent the £150,000 of paid
capital. Another view of the co.’s amazing
expansion is afforded by this comparison, re-
collecting that over the whole score of years
only £5OOO of new money was put into the
business by'shareholders:—
1900. 1910. 1919. 1920.
Overdrafts £55,741 £17,311 £50,183 £5,912
Other liabilities . . 3,009 20,421 31,619 43,258
Advances, foreclos-
ures, etc. . . 87,087 35,303 105,990 98,943
Freeholds, etc. . . 10,718 104,465 125,334 125,092
Goodwill. . .. 25,000 Mil Nil Mil
Liquid assets .. - 56 ? 873 50,000
Of course, the realisation of old foreclosures
helped the earlier years; and the future
certainly cannot be gauged from last year’s
abnormal operations. But there are few
cos. which can show such solid security for
capital and whose profit-earning opportunities
appear so bright.
* * * *
The Federal Mutual Insurance Co. of
Australia (Sydney), which began with a
deficit of £4039 representing flotation ex-
penses :
Towards
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1912.. £4,039
1913.. £3425 Nil £3425 614
Further preliminary exes., £247 861
Reserves.
1914.. 1898 Nil 1898 1,037
1915.. 4188 Nil 4188 5,225
1916.. 6904 Bp.c. =£3076 3828 9,053
1917.. 3905 8 „ „ 3099 866 9,919
1918.. 3284 8 „ „ 3099 185 10,104
Premiums on new shares .. 458 10,562
1919.. 4219 10 p.c. 4039 180 10,742
Premiums on new shares . . 2822 13,564
1920.. 9124 10 p.c. = 4843 4281 17,845
During the eight years this insurance oifice
has been issuing policies it has not rushed
around after business regardless of costs
and risks. From the outset it decided rather
to assure its future by proceeding at an
easy gait and seeking business of a class
which would not be likely to get it int 6
trouble. The quality of the insurances it
has handled is demonstrated by the moderate
average loss rate of 37.7 p.c. for the past
six years. The idea, as set out in its pros-
pectus, was to “secure a combination of
insurers as shareholders,” thereby assuring
that profits would go to those policy-holders
who also took up shares. The progress
made in attracting new . policy-holders find
in inducing them to take up scrip is shown
in this comparison :
Paid Gross Paid Gross
Capital. Premiums. Capital. Premiums.
1913. . £35,776 £15,252 1918.. £38,737 £61,238
1916.. 38,450 44,442 1919.. 40,387 67,174
1917.. 38,737 49,628 1920.. 48,431 83,261
Two years ago everything was shaping so
well that the directors decided that a 2s. 6d.
premium on each £1 share paid to ss. should
be contributed by new shareholders, and so
far this has brought in £3280 to help funds.
The Federal Mutual’s underwriting experi-
ence is shown next :— 1
Net Expense Loss
Premiums. Expenses. Losses. Rate. Rate.
1915. . £25,520 £13,303 £9,636 52.1 p.c. 37.8 p.c.
1916.. 32,303 14,981 12,292 46.4 „ 38.1 „
1917.. 35,356 17,942 15,508 50.7 „ 43.9 „
1918.. 44,029 25,724 16,661 58.4 „ 37.8 „
1919.. 45,372 27,180 15,647 59.9 „ 34.5 „
1920.. 54,882 29,719 18,556 54.1 „ 33.8 „
The cost of writing business is necessarily
heavy in a young office: and not much relief
can be expected until cheaply : got renewals
bulk larger in proportion to the volume of
unavoidably-expensive new business. The
expense rate has already begun to move in
the right direction, and what the past year’s
smaller costs mean to the co. is demon-
strated by the fact that two-thirds of the
dividend distribution was provided by the
saving of 5.8 p.c. as compared with the pre-
vious 12 months’ exes. Not only was busi-
ness got more cheaply last year, but the co.
also experienced a lower loss rate than at
any other time since it began. The under-
writing surplus amounted to £6607, interest
earnings, etc., making the total visible sur-
plus for the year to June 30 the £9124 shown
in the first table. The whole of that amount,
however, cannot be regarded as the actual net
profit on operations, for many policies had
still varying terms to run before the pre-
miums therefrom, and which contributed to
the past year’s surplus, could be definitely
reckoned a 9 profit. But the good run lately
experienced has further strengthened the
co.’s position. The balance of profits after
paying dividends, along with the premiums
on new shares, has been set aside in a
reserve for unexpired risks, which now totals
f 17.545. Paid capital is £48,431, giving total
funds of £66,276, equal to 121 p.c. of the
past year’s net premium income. That is
eight points better than 12 months ago, and
a creditable performance for so young a
concern. In fact, from this point of view,
the Federal Mutual now compares favorably
with some of its older competitors. After
paying the latest 10 p.c. dividend there
were funds ample to meet claims 31 times
the size of last year’s losses.
The feature of the Federal Mutual’s career
has been that, since the management did not
over-reach itself attempting to get in large
volumes of business regardless of cost, its
balance-sheet has not been marred by the
appearance of an organisation account.
Apparently the initial cost of the establish-
ment was about £4300, but the whole of
that preliminary expense was soon made good
out of profits, and all extension costs have
been met out of current revenue. The re-
sult is that the whole of shareholders’ paid
capital and the reserves are represented by
tangible assets. And they are a healthy-
looking lot: Government securities, deposits,
cash, etc., £33,066; mortgages and invest-
ments, £16,175; sundry debtors and agency
balances, £12,183; freehold premises, _ £7646 ;
office furniture and motor-cars, £3563.
* * * *
The Melbourne Steamship Co. :
Added Noini-
Gross to lie- nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £,£>£>
Dec., ’12.. 8,715 7 p.c. = 6,843 1,872 118,899
June, ’13.. 20,107 8 „ „ 8,160 11,947 130,846
Dec., ’13.. 21,164 8 „ „ 8,160 13,004 143,850
June, ’14.. 16,966 7 ~ ~ 7,140 9,826 153,670
Pref. Ord. Total.
Dec., ’14.. 17,409 6p.c. Bp.c. 8,403 8,946 162,022
June,’ls.. 29,371 6 „ 15 „ 10,079 13,292 175,914
Transferred to capital, £51,000 124,914
Dec., T 5. . 32,433 6p.c. lOp.c. 18,530 18.903 143,817
June, ’16.. 33,045 6 „ 10 „ 13,530 19,515 163,332
Dec., ’16.. 27,598 6 „ 10 ~ 13,530 14,068 177,400
June, ’17.. 29,201 6 „ 10 „ 13,530 15,671 193,071
Dec., ’17.. 48.950 6 „ 10 „ 13,530 35,420 228,491
June,’lB.. 32,466 6 „ 10 ~ 13,530 18,936 247,427
Transferred to capital, £85,000 162,427
Dec., ’lB.. 30,593 6p.c. 10 p.c. 15,655 14,938 177,365
June,’l9.. 32,018 6 „ 10 „ 17,780 14,238 191,603
Dec.,’l9.. 29,38.3 6 „ 10 „ 17,780 11,603 203,206
June,’2o.. 73,144 6 „ 10 „ 17,780 55,364 258,570
Practically one-third of the term under
review was devoted to an exchange of
pleasantries with the marine-engineers, while
a tied-up fleet was earning nothing, though
costing something for maintenance, etc. In
consequence, the directors say that the net
profits for the half were only £15,270, which
was insufficient to ineet the usual dividend.
But the disclosed profit depends entirely on
what the management decided were reason-
able allowances to make for depreciation,
renewals, insurance, etc. Since the Decem-
ber balance the insurance fund has expanded
by £4832, alrdost 31 times the allowance
made a few years ago. .How much was
clipped for depreciation and renewals is not
disclosed, but even if considerably more than
ample was allowed, there would still be a
big discrepancy between the £15,270, plus
insurance and depreciation, and the £73,144
given in the table above? The co. apparently
experienced an unexpected windfall during
the period: an old marine insurance claim
for a “considerable amount” was allowed by
the underwriters, and as the management
had evidently not taken credit in its accounts
for any probable reimbursement in this way,
reserves have now benefited. Decently the
co. sold the s.s. Melbourne to the Speck Gov-
ernment at a “satisfactory price,” and what-
ever was received over and above bool#value
—and taking present inflated values into con-
sideration the surplus was no doubt consider-
able —has also helped reserves. Assuming
that the directors set aside something like
£7OOO for depreciation, renewals, etc., then
the term benefited to the extent of approxi-
mately £46,000 by the sale of assets and the
settlement of old insurance claims.
The co. is now working a smaller fleet than
it used to; during recent years the Sydney,
Brisbane, Melbourne and Ivapunda have
been towed off the register, and the 7944 tons
thus lost have not been replaced. The sale
of ships, the surpluses over and above book
values received therefrom, and the storage of
profits left after making dividend-distribu-
tions have effected these changes in the
balance-sheet position since the co.’s last new
steamer, the Woolgar, was put into commis-
sion years ago -
Dec., ’l4. June, ’l9. June, ’2O.
Liquid assets . . £68,819 £328,655 £500,073
Liabilities.. . . 63,830 75,496 166,298
Surplus . . £4,989 £253,159 £333,775
Steamships and other
non-liquid assets £393,450 £322,724 £309,076
The only new capital got in during that
period has been the £3147 of unpaid calls on
the £26,000 6 p.c. pref. issue of 1914. But
meantime ordinary capital has moved fi°ni
£204,000 to £340,000 by the transfer of
£130.000 of reserves, making the present 10
p.c. distributions to the ordinaries equal to
over 164 p.c. on their capital as it stood
just prior to the war. Meantime the co. has
increased its liquid surplus by no less than
£328.756, while the book value of fixed assets
has fallen off .by only £84,374. In other
words, the accounts show the co. to be
£244,412 better off than it was 54 years ago.
Tiie Bulletin would not be surprised if the
expansion has not been even greater. Note
the growth of liabilities, notwithstanding the
accumulations of cash. Nowadays with the
amounts owing is included an item ‘ sundry
balances,” which may be only another pocket
into which something has been stuffed for
contingencies. But though there are now
net assets with a book value of 3Gs. 3d. to
repi'esent each £1 of the £340,000 ordinary
capital, compared with 225. in 1914 to repre-
sent the same amount of capital, if the direc-
tors propose to acquire new ships to replace
those sold it would be just as foolish to
regard the co. as having bettered its position
by 64 p.c. as it would be to take credit for
the. enhanced values of the vessels still on
the register. Evidently the directors are
only awaiting an “advantageous opportunity”
to embark on a construction programme, and
the acquisition of new boats is going to be
a costly business. The future of the Mel-
bourne S.S. Co. cannot be gauged from hap-
penings during recent abnormal years; it
depends chiefly on what the cash assets can
earn when they have been invested in ships.
Wilcox, Mofflin, Ltd., wool, hide, skin
and tallow merchants (Sydney) :
To He- Nominal
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1918. . 1127,181 8 p.c. = £20,800 £O,BBl £0,381
1919.. 44,357 8 „ „ 20,800 23,557 29,938
1920.. 148,005 23 „ ~ 70,900 71,765 101,703
This three-year-old amalgamation of two
station-produce concerns lately received con-
siderable market attention, a whisper that
its year’s trawl had been particularly
large having skied the £1 shares from 28s.
to 375. within a couple of months. That
looked a tall valuation for shares which, on
the basis of the previous year’s accounts,
showed under 235. worth of net assets, in-
cluding an unknown amount of goodwill, and
which had so far carried only 8 p.c. divs.
In the balance-sheet now published the
directors claim a net profit for the past year
exceeding 42 p.c. on the paid capital of
£350,000. The co. had a wonderful run in
the boom markets of a few months ago, and
when the slump set in its luck held to it,
for it had had the good fortune to have un-
loaded the bulk of its stocks, and though
some losses were no doubt incurred they
were very mild compared with the obese
profits harvested when prices were soaring
to unprecedented heights. The accounts are
presented in a very abbreviated form: one
line alone gives what the directors claim to
have been the net profit. Whether the
£148,665 disclosed gives the full measure of
the year’s extraordinary run, or whether
the management has taken advantage of the
windfall to provide for contingencies, is not
stated. However, the directors are distri-
buting £41,900 of the profits by way of a
13 p.c. dividend, and a further 10 p.c.
(£35,000) is being made available for share-
holders to take in cash or paid-up scrip.
Assuming that the whole of this £35,000 is
left in the business, then as a result of the
past year’s operations the co.’s position will
have been visibly strengthened by £106,765
after paying a 13 p.c. dividend.
The co. represents a merging of old in-
terests which had once before gone hand in
hand. In the ’seventies the founders of the
two old concerns —Geo. Wilcox and Co.,
Ltd., and Wm. Mofflin and Co.. Ltd. —had
been in partnership in Adelaide, but later
each launched out independently, the Mof-
flins making Sydney their headquarters. The
new generations, however, found that when
the cos. expanded in the scramble for busi-
ness the parties were treading on each
other’s corns and that a re-amalgamation of
forces would be of mutual advantage. The
two cos. were linked up as from July 1,
1917. Apparently 260,000 £1 fully paids
were issued by the new concern, but that
included a considerable amount of scrip
issued against goodwill. Precisely how
much is not ascertainable, for the goodwill
item is bundled up with freeholds, lease-
holds, plant and machinery; wherefore in
the table above reserves are labelled as
nominal. The lumping habit extends to
other balance-sheet items: thus overdraft,
deposits and sundry creditors are in one
entry. This shows how the balance-sheet
figures have moved over the past three years:
1918. 1919 1920.
Paid capital ■ . . . . £260,000 £260,000 £350,000
Liabilities . . .. 206,140 393,434 261,041
Fixed assets and good
will (less depreciation
reserve) .. .. 257,009 336,724 290,031
Stocks 185,913 237,403 227,601
Hook debts . . . . 51,624 128,335 264,845
Cash 561 430 3,172
In the absence of details that comparison is
not very illuminating. Nevertheless, it


If your house is wired for electricity, and you are
having trouble with your door-bell because of ex-
batteries, you are being annoyed needlessly.
. nous Wayne Bell Ringing Transformer
will 'ring your door-bells with the same current that
tights your house, and will need no further attention
after once being installed. Come in and see it
demonstrated. Australian General Electric Company
corner Wentworth Avenue and Coulburn Street, Syd-
ney; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne.— Advt. [4
* * * #
Experience is an oculist that sometimes cures blind
faith. Experience with “Adamax” Asphaltum Roof-
ing gives builders everywhere absolute faith in its
lasting qualities, and superiority in every roofing
essential “Adamax” is easily handled—costs less
than galvanised iron, less for freight and less to
, audition “Adamax” will not pinhole or
rust whilst acids do not affect it. Write for free
booklet get full information. William Adams and
Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and
Adelaide.—Advt.
* * * #
Ji o** 0 ** w °°>? Pipe.—Copy of letter received
™ “‘more Waterworks Trust, Elmore. 28th Feb
f' . Dear Sir—yours 0 f the 19th inst. in regard
to pipes supplied to this Trust. The pipes have
been and are still in every way satisfactory, and are
quite suitable for our requirements. Tlie cost of
maintenance during the six years of service has been
ml. If we were putting in any further pipe lines
jour firm would certainly be favored with our orders
V U i ly S - Southall),- Sec.” Send for our
njiistiated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Company Ltd. (HA).), Burns Bay Road, Loiigneville,
Advt' oontract ? rs to all State Governments.—
Asbestos. Asbestos Fibre is largely used bv The
Asbestos Slate & Sheet Manufacturing Co., Ltd of
Asbestos House,’' York and Wynyard Streets, Sydney
to manufacture the well-known “Fibrolite” Sheets
and Slates. Prospectors and others who know of
any likely Asbestos deposits are advised to send
samples and communicate with the above Company.
—Advt.
Inventors.—Have you a n idea worth patenting?
Griffith & I-lassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney Finks Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
L el ) Cen - ; )0 , 35 - And at Challis /louse, Martin
1 lace, Sydney; tel. City 2723. —Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and" Foreign Patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Collins Street. Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Wriie
us .or Inventors Guide.— Advt.
/H‘, x y° ur concrete with Leplastrier’s Patent “Multi-
mix Concrete Mixer. Sizes from 1{ to 54 'cubic
ft. per batch Dram your roads with concrete pipes
made with Leplastner’s” “Quickset” Pipe Moulds
HeU Office, ,a Sydnft-Ip^ hUr LeplaStrier & C °”
D. J. McClelland M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ;*M. Ins.
C.L. (London); Civil and Hydraulic Engineer-
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes- all classes
engineering work ; contractors advised j railway work
90 Queen-street, Melbourne.—Aiivt
** * '
. T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc consult-
ing engmeer valuing, organising, technical advice
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective notation
8 wt!) ? St l eet (between Hunter and Bond
Stieets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.— Advt.
CITROEN GEARS
Ki“?' h i r« miU™”"m»chiS'
ships, electrical plants, machine tools, etc.
t.et particulars. ’Phone, Central 4031.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN ENGINEERING CO LTD
National Mutual Buildings,
Cr. Queen & Collins Streets, Melbourne.
Dalgety 8 Company
Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The
Probate Contract*
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death" Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GARVAN,
Managing Director.
<c£'
3 O ORD&S ON
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
%
DT
%
Swift {
Mil.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney,
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
SI
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufactured Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
would be surprising if the recent exception-
ally ta. time has not had some mliu-
ence on the valuations at which the various
assets have been included in the balance-
sheet. ho far as stocks are concerned, two
months had elapsed between the balancing
uate and w r hen the Accounts were presented,
and since probably almost everything on
hand had meantime been cleared there is
some guarantee that stocks were worth all
they were set down at in the balance-sheet,
htill the ho, is in an erratic business, as the
accounts of the old Mofflin co. demonstrated:
? n capital of £40,000 that concern
m 1012 showed a net profit of £13,831, and
ior that year paid 224 p.c. in divs.; during
the next two years it sustained £20,710 of
losses, and shareholders had only one 5 p c
in three years. But the wonderful time
experienced by the amalgamated concern
during the past year has put it in an excel-
lent position to meet the future, for even if
it did strike trouble over one-fifth of the
book value of its trading assets would have
to be lost before paid capital (as enlarged
by the bonus issue) would be endangered,
not overlooking, ol course, that an unknown
portion of the paid capital is represented
by nothing more than goodwill.
Ex-Banker : The Australian banking
returns for June, 1920, including those of
the Commonwealth Bank, compared with
those of September, 1910, covering a period
ot nearly 10 years, present some amazing
contrasts: —
~ . Sept., 1910. .June, 1920.
Deposits .. . . £127,785,888 £245,850,261
Advances . . . . 105,070,809 169,085,175
Coin and bullion . . 31,627,234 55,908,640
treasury notes held —• 31,484,670
Deposits have nearly doubled, advances are
only GO p.c. higher and cash holdings have
increased by only 56 p.c. Treasury notes
have replaced coin and bullion to the exteut
ot nearly 314 millions. If Thomas-Gresham,
ol London, were alive he would have the'
very best evidence from these figures of the
i truth of his axiom that bad money (i.e.,
paper) always drives out' good money (i.e.,
cash). The increase of deposits mirrors the
infiation of credit and currency. In 1910
there were £3,801,567 of bank notes in cir-
culation, while to-day the Treasury has
issued £57,441,932, of which nearly 24 mil-
lion are £lOOO notes and useless ‘as a cir-
culating medium. A 15-fold increase in the
paper currency in 10 years is not only un-
healthy—it is dangerous. The Australian
banks are using their funds in London to
a much greater extent than they did 10
'ears ago, because the opportunities are
more numerous there for turning over money
rapidly and profitably. The fact that
advances are lagging behind deposits must
have an ill-effect on banking profits, but it
is comforting to know that the banks are
discounting the boom prices of real estate
and of scrip certificates. There is also com-
fort in the fact that ours is a strong posi-
tion compared with, say. that of the. Federal
Reserve Banks of the U.S.A., which hold
only 6 p.c. of gold against deposits practi-
cally at call.
The S. M. Herald in an exalted moment:
Six yearn ago it would have been unbelievable
that Australia would raise in her own borders
£39,000,000 nf Government loans a year over a
period of six yearq, and that the darkest year of
the war, which later turned to the brightest year,
should so stimulate our patriotism that in that 'year
a sum of £86,000,000 should be raised. These facts
are evidences of the resources of Australia and of
the resoluteness of our people.
The Herald’s eloquent yearling got his
theories wrong. Six years ago no one
imagined that Australia would print, with
imported ink on imported paper, both
probably owed for, some £57,000,000 (nomi-
nal) of notes—the people’s lOU’s payable
by themselves to themselves —including
nearly £24,000,000 of £lOOO-notes. These
can’t leave the country, for outside no one
would take them by the cwt. So the Gov-
ernment borrowed them here, spent them
here, saw them drift back to the banks for
storage here, borrowed them again here, and
kept on round the circle. If it had let the
banks subscribe their compulsory holdings
of £3 000-notes to the loans it could have
had two more loans every year. But to
Pay foreigners who weren’t impressed by
the spectacle of our borrowing y our own
lOC’s from each other, the raising of real
money abroad went on gaily.
The B. 11. Prop, has about four millions
sunk in its Newcastle steel plant, and con-
templates laying out a further two millions.
It will probably be found that there will be
an issue of a million and a half of debentures
aud that shareholders will be invited to buv
420,000 new shares.
Chairman Moulden, of the B. H. South,
has been estimating in £ s. d. what the 17
months’ stoppage at the Broken Hill mines
hasmeant. Normal production over that period
would have given approximately 200,000 tons
lead, 500,000 tons zinc concentrates, and
million oz. silver, worth altogether, he esti"
mates, about £32.000,000. The worker has
been the biggest loser, for no matter on what
terms he resumes the lost wages will not be
made good. As for the cos.—well, though
divs. have been scarce, the metal is still in
the ground. Certainly the high silver market
was missed, but the holding back of 200,000
tons lead at a time when the world was over-
stocki'- lias pro- -led compensations. *
® * • *
General-manager Courtney, of u. c Sul-
phide Corporation, has left for England to
meet the directors and discuss plans prior
to the annual meeting.
* * * »
Cooktown, which badly needs a lift, may
get it once more from the Palmer River goM-
iield. It is the settled conviction of the
old mine officials and prospectors who know
the field that there is still much yellow metal
to be won there. The alluvial diggings
alone in the five years following the discovery
of the field in 1873 by Haim's Expedition
yielded something like a million ounces. But
it was a disastrous field for water, and the
small syndicates never had a hope of con-
trolling it for want of capital to provide
adequate pumping plant. On this account,
Ur. Jack, in his official report on the field,
stated that “the reefs have never had a
fair although many more than deserved
it. that fair trial is about to be given by
the Queensland Mines Department, which
has placed machinery, including pumping
plant, on the field, and an engineer is now
making a start to unwater the Louisa mine.
The ground has been only scratched, for
none of the reef-workings went deeper than
300 ft. or 400 ft. Many of the reefs were
very rich ; for instance, Anglo-Saxon, IS,OBO
tons, 29,0800 z.; Comet, 3558 tons, OOSOoz •
Queen of the North. 0730 tons, 14,2910 z.;
Ida, 0038 tons, 13,1870 z. Then there were
the Louisa, Viking, Wild Irish Girl, Persever-
ance and many others of lesser note. Most
of this gold was won in the late ’seventies
and the ’eighties; and two points worth
noting are that cyaniding had not then
reached the field, and that the ore contained
much mundic. Charters Towers was treat-
ing somewhat similar ore at the same period
for a recovery of about GO p.c., so it seems
fair to assume that the' Palmer reefs are
richer than the above figures indicate.
Since the discovery of alluvial tin in the
Stanthorpe (Q.) district in 1872, that area
has produced more of the metal than
any other district in the State, its
quota being approximately 50,700 tons
of oxide, or about one-third of the
total State output. Practically the
whole of the tin won has been alluvial,
for no lodes have been found in the granite
country. From an output of 8930 tons in
1873 the returns have dwindled till in 1919
only 118 tons were recovered by dredging,
the field now being easily surpassed by Ber-
ber ton and Chillagoe. When geologist St.
Smith reported on the field eight vears ago
he advanced the view that the alluvial tin
must have come from countless small veins
which had escaped the prospector. Now a
new type of deposit for the district has been
located near Pikedale, 10 miles west of Stan-
thorpe, which will probably be found to have
solved the question whence the alluvial ori-
ginated. Sensational statements as to the
new lode appeared in the Brisbane press;
for example, that, it was seven miles long
and carrying 75 p.c. of tin in places. These
myths have been exploded by the visit of a
Mines Department geologist. It appears
that the tin occurs in a greisen and felspathic
aplite, an extremely soft ore which crumbles
m the fingers and can therefore not be
expected to show outcrops in the hard sili-
ceous granite country. The ore body is sur-
rounded by outcrops of granite, and it may
possibly be a pipe of very large dimensions.
Ihe values were absurdly exaggerated, but
the importance of the discovery seems un-
doubted, since Swiper’s Gully, at the head of
which it was located, has contributed a great
deal of alluvial tin. It is hardly likely that
this is just an isolated occurrence in view
of the widespread alluvial tin of the district.
Lodies of tin-bearing greisen are common in
the granites of Cornwall and Saxonv. so
that the rejuvenation of the Stanthorpe field
as a result of further similar ore bodies
being located is -nt improi’-'ble.
* * * *
There still 'appears to be a rav hope
for the backers of the Oaks goldfield (X.Q.).
The miner’s daily wage now averages over
195.; but gold is dearer, too, so the addi-
tional five-head added to the Oaks’s 10-head
battery looks as though it may squeeze a
simll profit from the big low-grade deposit.
Lhe first month’s crushing by the enlarged
plant gave from 1300 tons, and that
2dwt. average is from |dwt. to a ’weight
below the general average of the deposit.
Oaks gold fetches 70s. per oz., and reckon-
ing on a premium of 10s. per oz. (it is
likely to be nearer 20.5.) the run gave gold
worth at least £522. The pay-sheet for the
period totted up £477. and allowing for wear
and tear of plant there still remained a
small margin of profit. So manager J. J.
1 ull.v. who has battled against big odds dur-
ing the past five years, and Arthur Clarke
run the field for 10 years and seen
xIUO.OOO of shareholders’ cash and gold win-
nings passed out with never a return to
shareholders, are feeling more cheerful than
for many a day.
The little Melbourne-promoted Westralian
Oil Prospecting Co., in 200 shares of £lO
each, has been financing a prospector who had
met a man with a bottle of petroleum which
he said he collected somewhere south of
Cambridge Gulf (W.A.). The owner of the
oil inconveniently died, so nobody knows for
certain exactly where it was supposed to
come from. Nevertheless, the Melbourne
sports sent the prospector out, and now, from
Turkey Creek, 2G16 miles north of Perth, he
reports having pegged 3000 acres adjoining
the Negri River, a district having “every
appearance of being a large oil-field.” But
Melbourne has so iar seen no samples, and
until it does there’s no call for any excite-
ment. Meantime the co. is offering 50 new
£lO shares at par to its backers, or, if they
are cold, the public can get in for £l5.
* * * *
A prospector named Lambie caused a stir
m Cue (.W.A.) the other day by declaring
that he had discovered a mineral belt 200
miles to the north containing silver, lead,
gold, copper, rubies and “the finest marble
in Australia.” The find is not a new one:
a number of mineral belts exist between
Cue and Wyndham, but all hitherto explored
are either too small or too inaccessible to
Pay under present conditions.
About a year ago the scrip of Hampton
1 roperties (W.A.) was fetching only a few
pence, but in the boom moved to over 50s.
•Now the shares can be picked up at about
os. Out of the 14 leases reserved by the
co. on Block 48 only one, that south of the
patchy Mutooroo, shows much promise.
V i/hL 011 ™ e sui ' face were only fair, but
at 100 ft. down they are stated to be high
over a width of 10ft., though but little driv-
ing has so far be6n done. The co.’s reserved
leases on Block 45. a few miles east of
Block 48, were thought to have a chance,
but recent developments have not been
encouraging. Adjoining these areas Boulder
No. 1 has started sinking. Hitherto, it has
confined prospecting to boring, and has
reported values up to an ounce.
White Hope (W.A.) has improved ■some-
what in driving at 100 ft., but until deeper
development work has been done no accurate
forecasts can be made as, to the mine’s
future. On present appearances it is not
going to be anything very big.
* * * #
Boring in new ground south of the present
collieries at Collie (W.A.) is said to
ha\e disclosed some large-sized seams, one
over 27ft. wide. A well-financed co., in
which. the P. and O. directors are stated
to be interested, is being formed in London
to acquire big areas on the field.
The Anglo-Persian Oil Co. will, appa-
rently, have to wait till the session after the
V ic. general election for the little bill which
Lawson has in hand authorising it to get
eight acres alongside the new pier at Port
Melbourne as a bunker depot for fuel oil. It
is also proposed to allow the concern to
lay pipes to supply .steamers in bay and
river (Yarra). The co. has already a site
at Fishermen’s Bend, but it proposes to ex-
change this for the area now in view and to
cash-up for the difference in value.
* * * *
“Good Australian” on tilt; nysuse of coal:
Benzol, a derivative fi-om coal, can do everything
petrol can do in automotive machines. It is, niore-
o\ei, indispensable to the dye-stuffs industry so well
established in Germany, where 2000 synthetic colors
were being produced in 1914. If Germany had put
an embargo on dye-stuffs being exported, it could
have brought to a stoppage the British trades in
silk, wool, cotton, paint and paper. In 1913 Ger-
many was extracting 6,000,000 gallons of benzol a
year from Government coal alone. It bought vast
quantities of tar thrown away at British gasworks,
and extracted their benzol and aniline dyes on a
large scale, the benzol being used as' a motor fuel
and as the base of high explosives, while the residue
was made into dyes. Our present methods of
treating coal are most wasteful, because the by-
products benzol, ammonia and diesel-oil go up the
flues and are lost. The low-temperature carbonisa-
tion ti eatment op bituminous coal is, however, mak-
ing headway in Britain, where the steel ’ trade
demands large quantities of coke, and the valuable
by-products are recovered. The use of coal as a
household fuel ought to be prohibited, and its place
taken by coke. In this way the waste of benzol
would cease. The lighting standard of gas ought
to he abandoned in favor of a heating-value stan-
dard. From the Australian, and especially the Vic-
torian, standpoint, the fact that brown coal can be
subjected to the low-temperature process of carboni-
sation easily and successfully makes it of national
importance. This modern treatment should be tried
on a large (not a laboratory) scale. In the United
States the new system of treating black and brown
coal to recover their most valuable constituents as
gaining ground rapidly. Victorian brown coal, be-
cause of its low percentage of ash, ranks high
amongst the lignites of the world, and from it can
be taken coke, gas, benzol, gas-oil and diesel-oil,
fuel-oil and pitch, not to mention briquettes equal in
calorific value to Newcastle black coal. What folly,
then, not to try to treat brown coal for its by-
products! What ineptitude on the part of the Vic-
torian Government and its technical advisers! What
crass stupidity is shown by the Melbourne manu-
faoturers, whose wort is being starved for lack of
power-gas, oil and benzol!
* * *
Tributors at the Stanley Reward (Tas.)
fotamed only 2| tons of tin oxide during
the halt-year ending June. Despite system-
atic prospecting nothing further of import-
ance has been exposed, and the old show is
lookine very sick.
* * * *
“Blue Bill” : I was dragged out the other
uay by an importunate Pommy prospector
to see his find—a quartz reef 12ft. through,
with gold enough to pay all Queensland’s
debts, but not enough to bribe our noble
Government. As we drove on it grew like
our State electoral rolls will in the coming
month, and then as we neared Mount Mor-
gan 11. it began to dwindle again to the
modest figure at which it started. But it
was there all right, a 12ft. outcrop of likelv-
ooking quartz, but not a 12ft. reef. Chooin
had been too busy spending his millions in
anticipation to notice that the reef was
almost flat, dipping at most 15 degrees from
the horizontal. Hence the outcrop was much
greater than the width of the reef. If he
had known the simple rule of multiplying
the width of the outcrop by the dip'and
dividing the result by GO, he would also have
known that his reef was three feet and not
j. 1 : Yes, of course the gold was mun-
dic.


THE ANGLER.
FISHERMAN STOREY: “Good bait, these wigworms!”


Si. o
jor Obery Occasion*
ABBOTS LAGER
c 73&?r rtitAout a Vfiife/
BREWED EROM PURE ONiy
*Deaf^
s
Are you imprisoned in an invisible cage ?
Do you experience that awful loneliness only
known to those who cannot hear 1
Why remain out of it whilst your friends
are enjoying themselves?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
has been proved by thousands of Australasian
citizens with over 8 years of dailv use, in
Business, the Theatre and Church.
It is recommended by the leading Ear
Specialists, and is in every respect a
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
The Hears Ear-Phone is positively the small-
est, neatest and most scientific instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.
May we send you a little booklet, and
place before you our FREE TRIAL OFFER ?
You will be under absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
387 George Street, Sydney.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfIING ROOF GARDEN.
Management F. T. CHEJiSEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
From the Bar table :
“Gus” James, K.C., who accepted a N. S. Wales
supreme Court Judgeship last week, is a tall, sal-
low, lantern-jawed young' man whose reputation as
a lawyer stood pretty high a dozen years ago. Since
entering the Assembly he hasn’t bothered about his
Bar practice, one good reason being that he didn’t
need to: there is plenty of money in the family.
The amiable suggestion made by one of the Sydney
morning papers that the other Supreme Court Judges
should treat him as a ferocious member of the Bench
did poor Julian Salomons on a memorable occasion
is unlikely to be adopted. For one thing James is
extremely popular with practically all the present
N. S. Wales Judges, as, indeed, he is with the Bar.
The onslaught made on him by Bavin was more for
Hansard purposes than anything else. The jurisdic-
tion in which an energetic man of the world of his
stamp would probably do most good is divorce.
Gordon, J., has been almost snowed under of late
years by the rush of suitors. Gordon went on to
the Divorce Court bench with the reputation of being
amongst the three or four best Equity lawyers in
Australia. It was said
that his rare gifts
would be wasted there.
He did not think so at
the time, and he never
has since. Like his
friend the present
High Court Chief Jus-
tice he had mingled
freely all his life in a
world which is remote
from Chambers, and
the breadth of social
outlook so acquired
was of great service to
him, and to the com-
munity, at his new
job. James, J., while
not the profound law-
yer that Gordon was
and is, is full of
energy, commonsense
and humanity; and
those are the three
qualities most needed
on the Bench in
divorce.
The newly-
appointed JUS-
TICE JAMES
( N.S.W.).
The Federal Government has handed out
fat increases to star officials. Garran, the
Solicitor-General, leaps from £lOOO to £2OOO
a year, and Collins, of the Treasury, goes
up to £l4OO a year. Atlee Hunt (Home
and Territories) adds another £2OO to his
£9OO. Statistician Ivnibbs’s little lot becomes
£1250 and Meteorologist Hunt’s £B5O p.a.
Defence annexes £l5OO a year each for
Inspector-General Chauvel and Chief-of-
Staff White, and the commandant of Dun-
troon College now signs for £l2OO. Trumble,
the secretary. whose previous pittance was
i9OO, is to receive £ll5O. and Captain Hardy,
second member of the Naval Board, passes
from £lOOO to £l4OO. Friend, head of
Federal Hansard, rises to £lOOO, and other
lumps ranging from £5O to £3OO have been
scattered among the departments. Next to
Garran the biggest jump has been made by
Larkin, London manager of the Common-
weaith shipping line. He has been lifted
from £2500 to £3OOO a year.
Just-dead Reginald Bright was one of Cap-
tain Cadell’s party in the first Murray
expedition in 1853, That ‘‘roughing* it” in
the bush lasted him all his life: lie preferred
the discomforts of the club ever after. There
are said to be some people who saw Reggie
engaged in mercantile pursuits at one time
or other, but for many yehrs his partiality
tor business was no stronger than the fond-
ness for vegetables displayed by the late
Beau Brummel, who admitted that he “once
ate a pea.”
President Deschanel, of France, has “fallen
into a pond while wandering unattended at
Rambouillet,” and the French Foreign
Office now admits
that he is to re-
sign. Some months
ago he “fell out of
a train.”
With the
futile
attempt at
mystery
which character-
ises officialdom
everywhere, it has
been suggested that
these happenings
were accidental.
Actually he has
suffered from
melancholia since
early in the war,
and after his
appointment a s a
stop-gap President
the trouble became
acute. Deschanel
is a member of the
Academy, an
authority on the
Pacific situation,
and a prolific and
charming writer.
For years he has
been one of the
exquisites of liter-
ary Paris.
PERCY HUNTER,
formerly publicity
agent for N. S.
Wales in London,
and now appointed
Commonwealth
immigration agent
in the same village.
Death has stilled Andrew Black’s golden
voice. Pneumonia gripped him during the
winter, and although he shook off the attack
and planned to revisit his native Glasgow,
his enfeebled frame could not withstand a
second visitation. Randegger and Scafati
were Andrew’s masters, and as far back as
1887 he was in the front rank of Britain’s
concert and oratorio singers. After the
death (in 1905) of his first wife, a sister
of Ivan Caryll, of the London Gaiety, he
came to Sydney and married the widow of
Lichtsclieindl, of Pfahlert’s Hotel. He was
60 at the end.
Thomas Thomson Ewing, who died last
week at 63, was a Hawkesbury native —a
son of Dean Campbell Ewing and brother of
the Judge who sat on the I.W.W. Commis-
sion. From 1885 to ’94 “T.T.” represented
the Richmond in the N. S. Wales Assembly,
and for seven years afterwards Lismore. He
was the first M.H.R. for the Richmond, and
held the seat until 1910, when he retired.
Deakin made him vice-president of the
Executive Council, and later he was Secre-
tary for Home Affairs and Minister for
Defence. He was a surveyor by profession
and co-author with T. A. Coghlan of “The
Progress of Australia in the 19th Century.”
Dr. Sumbstroem, the new physiologist at
the Institute of Tropical Medicine, has come
from Helsingfors to Townsville by way of
California, where he put in some years at
Berkeley University. Though he graduated in
the capital of Finland, where he worked
under Tigerstedd, a physiologist with a
European reputation, he is a Swede, not a
Finn. It is understood that no German was
available.
Adelaide has given a military funeral to
a veteran of 86, George Connell. He did his
best to get into all the fighting there was in
his time, but was too old for the biggest war
in history and too young for the Crimea—
for which he nevertheless enlisted, but got
no nearer than Gibraltar. After 27 years’
service he came to South Aus. and made up
the half-century in that State’s permanent
force, including a term as camp quarter-
master in South Africa.
With the venerable Howchin retiring from
his lectureship at Adelaide Uni., the parallel
post held by Douglas Mawson has been ele-
vated to a chair, and the Antarctic leader has
accepted the offer of the first Professorship of
Geology. Mawson is in touch with minerals
on both sides of the house, having married a
daughter of mine-manager Delprat.
A gallery man takes a snap:—
As he stepped out of the Melbourne State public
offices after meeting Lawson, Clapp, the new Vic.
Railway boss, looked like a smart Yankee bagman
who had pulled off a big deal. The knuts envied
him his soft felt cady, and began, with one accord,
to smash in the sides of theirs, in imitation of his,
so that they too might look like 25,000d01.-a-year
fellows. Tall, spare, alert, younger looking than his
age, he is altogether a new type for the biggest-
paid job under the State Government.
F. H. Bathurst has tired of the violent
racket of the Stock Exchange, and has gone
back to his old chair as commercial and
financial editor of the Argus. He has spent
some years with the firm of Clarke and Co.,
and now knows every move in the zoo-game
of bulls and bears. He is going to retain
his membership of the Melbourne Stocli
Exchange.
Concerning a man who followed Deakin in
death as in life:—
Courteous and cheery Thomas Ewing, who was in Par-
liament for a quarter of a century and held a Federal
portfolio for three years, has gone to his account.
A breakdown in health compelled him to retire from
public life in 1910; but he never lost touch with
old political friends, and his opinions on men and
matters were decisive and sound. He had a wonder-
ful memory, a sense of humor, and a deep veneration
for literature—in fact, he w'rote a bit himself. Three
months ago at Brunswick Heads —his favorite fish-
ing and holiday resort —he sat down one rainy day
and wrote two or three chapters of reminiscences
of his political career. I urged him to continue the
effort. The rain held on (else he would have gone
fishing), and 10 days afterwards he handed me a
bulky roll. “That’s finished,” he said. “It has
not taken long to do, but I’d not write it again for
a Jew’s eye.” There were nearly 300 pages of
MSS., rich in racy anecdote and clean-cut impres-
sions of men he had known well—Parkes, Barton,
Lyne, Dibbs, Deakin, Reid (especially Reid!), B. R.
Wise and many others, and every word was written
from memory.
Anglers in Tasmania this year will
miss the humorous cackle of “Jollytail”
Crooke, who for a score of years has
been a noted figure among the island’s
most enthusiastic fly-fishers. The keen-
witted and keen-tongued old man was con-
siderably over the allotted span when he was
called. An ex-schoolmaster who got out of
the Vic. Education Service before becoming
too old to enjoy life, Mr. Crooke had a
couple of casts in Tasmanian political waters,
with results that left him poorer in pocket
bpt not less energetic. Though the Speck’s
electors declined his services as a legislator
(perhaps they didn’t relish the persistence
with which he dragged Graham Berry and
Alfred Deakin into his arguments, or per-
haps they suffered from sheer inability to
regard a clever teller of fish-stories as a
serious proposition in politics), Crooke
simply refused all invitations to occupy a
back seat in public affairs. His ability, plus
his amazing energy, carried him into numer-
ous efforts of public usefulness. His best
performance was his victorious fight to secure
a reserve of some 30,000 acres of Upper Der-
went forest land for a National Park.
Successive Tory Cabinets considered a few
hundred acres sufficient, and Crooke was
denouhced as a visionary bent upon vexatious
interference with the rights of land-specula-
tors. But the old fellow persisted, and at last
got the Labor Government of 1914 T 16 to
hearken to his request for a decent-sized
paddock as a sanctuary for his beloved
native birds and beasts.
Fred Hayes, private sec. to Joe Cook, has
become industrial adviser to the Naval
Department—a new post that carries a
higher screw. Except for a period at the
war, Hayes has been Cook’s aidykong* since
P ior to that was with late
Alfred Deakin. One of George Reid’s boys
takes Hayes’s old chair.
* Bon P e y> who, as president of the
A.J.A., negotiated a recent agreement with
the newspapers for an advance of 15 per
cent, in salaries and also bucked up the
Association’s publication till it looked less
like a morgue, has thrown up the 'job. The
trouble arose over a proposal to give Bonney
an honorarium of £3O. The N. S. Wales
branch not only turned the proposal down
but circularised the other branches in pro-
test. Then the president got out.
South Aus. has lost two aged pastoralists
much better known 30 years ago than lately.
James Mackay was 84, and an Australian
since 1857. He brought his knowledge of
sheep from Scotland, and gave all his life
to them, being associated in stations with
A. B. Murray, R. A. Tarlton and other old-
timers. George Wollaston was 11 years old
when Adelaide was founded, and lived to
95. He came from England 80 years ago
with his father, archdeacon of the infant
Swan River settlement in Westralia. He
ia fj« ari adve “tarous time on the Bendigo
goldfields, growing potatoes in MX, shipping
W estralian kangaroo-skins to Sydney, am.
running a mission-station for natives" But
for the past 60 years he had been station-
manager or owner in South Aus.
it, is decided to appoint a layman as
h ederal Public Service arbitrator under the
new legislation, W.
J. Skewes, Public-
Service Inspector,
who has special-
ised in arbitration
work, may get the
job. He has con-
ducted the Federal
service cases be-
fore Powers, J.,
for years, appear-
ing, of course, for
the Government.
He began as pri-
vate sec. to Sar-
good away back in
the ’nineties, when
the yardstick
colonel was
Munro’s Minister
for Defence and
Education, and has
been attached to
the Federal Public
Service Commis-
sioner’s office since
Federation.
General JOHN
GELLIBRAND
Victoria's new
Police Commis-
sioner
The secretaryship of the S. Aus. Labor
party,, vacant by the moving-over of Bin-ell
to journalism on the Adelaide Labor daily,
has been given—over the head of Grealey,
who has filled the billet for the past few
weeks—to the much-tried and much-discussed
soldier-politician G. E. Yates. Yates is 4!)
and Staffordshire born, but has been in S.A
since he was seven. He used to be sec. of the
IJ.L.r. L. C. Ilunkin, secretary of the
Irades and Labor Council in Adelaide, is
another to retire, having accepted a well-paid
commercial job in Melbourne.
Tom Wilford, who succeeds the late Mac-
Donaid m the job of leading the Maoriland
political party which followed Ballance,
Seddon and Ward, is 52, a barrister, and by
nature a happy-go-lucky with an
inclination to never do anything to-dav
which can be put off till to-morrow. A big.
burly chap with close-cropped hair and ex-
pensive raiment, Tom burst into politics as
member for a Wellington suburb at about 25,
and Ins geniality has helped to keep him
there ever since. How he will shape as
leader of a party remains to be seen. But
as the Maoriland Libs, stand for nothing in
particular he may prove a conspicuous
success. He won’t take the job too seriously,
anyway, for even if he yearns to be one dav
feir lorn he also has the saving grace of
humor. He married a daughter of old Geordie
McLean, an M.L.C., one-time chairman of the
Union Steamship Co. and racing partner of
Hercules Robinson. Tom also had his flutter
with racehorses, but never told father-in-law
what it cost him.
Whitehall”: Sir Thomas Beecham, Bart,
who faced his creditors in the London Bank-
ruptcy Buildings last week, is the greatest
on ,” l l ( ;* :01 ' and one of the greatest producers
that England has evolved. As an artist he
had a heavy handicap in the fact that the
merits of his father’s pills scream from
garish hoardings all through the English
countryside. They are not his pills. Old
Joseph Beecham discerned the artistic tem-
perament in his only son while the latter was
years ago, and executed a
settlement: which gave him only a life-
interest in the vast, Lancashire concern.
Many of the son’s productions have been like
those of the late Henry Irving at the Lyceum
magnificent, but not business. Still, on
the whole, the Opera Co. which he controlled
was able to pay its way till the end of last
season, when the Russian ballet at Covent
Garden went on strike. Phoenix-like he must
rise again, even though his- creditors do their
worst. London Culture is proud of him.
And, anyhow, an insolvency, as such, counts
t -T™ e . j n T m °dern Britain.- The present
Lord Chief Justice “took the knock” on the
Stock Exchange in his youth.
A sSldier-nephew of the late George Hous-
ton Keid is helping Labor at the Queensland
elections. He is opposing A. C. Elphinstone
at Oxley. But the Nationalist member is
well dug-in, and the younger Reid —he was
a lieutenant in the A. l.lP.— is finding it a
tough fight.
The very strong Methodist body in S. Aus.
has had a windfall in a legaev of £lO,OOO
from the late William Shierlaw, the Hindley-
stieet tailor, for the training (“and main-
tenance during training,” the keen old busi-
ness man added) of candidates for its
ministry.
MATES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A man must be discreet at thirty-six,
Speak words of wisdom, or at least look wise,
Nor romp nor play the little, coltish tricks
That once brought gladness to his mother’s eyes.
This much I know ; but someone chides me when
My steps are leading where the staid folk go—
My other self, who is a boy of ten,
Or may be less for aught I care or know.
When I would write deep verse, the little elf
Tugs at my sleeve and pipes so pleadingly':
“Put all your musty papers on the shelf,
And play a game of ‘Hide and Seek’ with me.”
He bids me build quaint castles on the sands
And make fine pies of mud on rainy days ;
He looks askance at these lean, laundered hands
And shrugs his shoulders at their grown-up ways.
O little man, I miss you when you sleep,
And fain would o|hase the slumber from your eyes ;
For then it is that shadows round me creep,
And life is wanting of all high emprise!
I know that you will come ere daylight dies,
Nor speck nor stain upon your garments fine,
And I shall look the last time in your eyes
The while you hold these trembling hands of mine.
Thus shall it be we, parting sore distressed,
Shall face the twilight and the afterglow—
* going down the grey road winding west,
And you the wide way where the glad hearts go.
N.S.W.
G. D. MacDONALD.


£
9a
Details of the
126-inch wheelbase, with 36-horsepower
Studebaker-designed and Studebaker-built
demountable-head motor with two-range
carburetter, shock absorbers, artistic
straight-side slanting wind-shield with ven-
tilator base and integral corner lights,
jewelled eight-day clock, tonneau light with
extension cord, Gypsy top with rectangular
plate-glass window in rear, 33 x 4£ i
Goodyear Cord Tyres throughout, includ-
ing spare.
A remarkable record of “FIRSTS”
in the development of the car
THERE is much to be said for
the man or the company who
develops and applies a new
idea. To think of the new and un-
usual is one thing. To test it out by
patient experiment and- prove it is
another.
This calls for enterprise and, in many
cases, indomitable pluck and perse-
verance. Great credit is due to the
successful innovator of even one idea.
What, then, shall be said of Stude-
baker, who has been “first” not only
once but many times; who has tried
out and applied any number of im-
provements in the building of the
motor-car?
The Studebaker Company has blazed
the trail, led the van and set the
fashion. Here is part of the remark-
able series of “Firsts” that have
marked Studebaker’s industrial pro-
gress:—
First to make extensive use of
presseck steel throughout; First to
cast six-cylinder motors en bloc;
First to produce a car with Crown
mud-guards; First to produce a
6-cylinder car with cord tyres as
standard equipment at a compara-
tively low price; First to furnish
plate-glass windows, nickel-
trimmed, in the rear hood, as stan-
dard equipment.
Studebaker is to-day, and intends to
keep on being, “First.”
Details of the
“Special Six”
119-inch wheelbase, with 29-horsepower
Studebaker-designed and Studebaker-built
demountable-head motor; improved carbu-
retter, with “hot-spot” intake manifold;
artistic, torpedo-shape cowl lights at corners
of windshield; outside and inside door
handles, and tonneau light with extension
cord. 32 x 4 inch Goodyear Cord Tyres
throughout, including spare.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Head Office for Australia: 1 77 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
;■ . t . ■ ; •-!
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
C. C. & M. A., Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Tasmanian Motor Service, Ltd., Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Bagot, Shakes & Lewis Ltd., King William Street, Adelaide.
New Zealand: Adams Limited,
Christchurch, Timaru,
Palmerston North, Wanganui
ilia


0i
A Bag of Many Uses.
The Peapes Kit Bag serves many purposes—
as a business hag, for week-end holidays and
for longer journeys to keep indispensable
articles near at hand when other luggage is
stowed away.
It is made of solid leather over stout iron
frame. Pitted with nickel lever sliding lock
and end-clips. A well-finished bag of good
quality, it will retain its shape during many
years of constant use.
If. 16. 18. 20 in.
33/6 39/6 43/6 47/6
PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George St., Sydney.
mc u c ,
V* INSTITUTE v
Dept. A.
ROLLED
GOLD,
£l/1/-
e
Complete
with
Case,
£l/1/-
We do not cater for any diseases
of the eyes. We simply correct
failing sight, which sets in at
about the age of 40.
Write for particulars and
our self-measurement form,
which will be sent on re-
ceipt of a post-card to
No money asked.
Pay post office
when spectacles
are delivered.
Box 702 G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
■
r 5 -
■M-n
In the morning
a spoonful of Sal Hepatica in a
glass of water is good for health.
Has tonic and laxative properties
similar to the well-known
Bitter Waters of Europe.
All chemists.
Price, 2/-, i/- L. 260
ht BffITICA
C£>/eczscuzf do -£cl£&-
mu uudiuu..i
Society
PENEOLD’S
WINES
“Gunner”: “Don't tell me it can t be
done,” said W. M. Hughes to one of his
departmental chiefs last week; “you’re there
to see it is done.” Which is an indication
of how far'Hughes has gone along the mili-
NOT THE SAME
BIRD NOW.
THE NEW WIFE: "You
once said that mu noire
reminded you of a lark."
HER HUSBAND: "That iron hecuusc H 'tea#
such a joke."
tarist road. “No such word as ‘can’t’ in the
Army”—such was the sounding phrase
which travelled down from Corps to corporal
all through the war, and resulted in count-
less “incidents” which collectively, no doubt,
raised the prestige of the Higher Command,
but did no good to the rank and file.
In order to get a favorable report from the
C.R.A. an Artillery brigade needed certain
equipment. But some of its original issue
might have been lost, and no more could be
got from ordnance. “Don’t tell me the .stuff
can’t be got,” the C.O. would say to his
B.C.’s, and the Diggers had to do the rest.
The Diggers of the Hughes army do their
bits with their cheque-books. It is useless
for the head of the Telephone Department,
for example, to point out- that the insanity
can’t legitimately be made to pay. It has
got to pay ; and hence the regrettable inci-
dents, as between the top and underdogs,
which accompany militarism the world over.
“F.” : It Avas the summer of 1918, Avhen
things in France were anyhow, and eA’ery
man that could be raked up in Blighty was
being shoved across the Channel. Obtain-
ing leave from a camp in England was prac-
tically impossible, and in Sutton Veny in
particular all the time-honored stunts and
worn-out excuses to Avangle a few days had'
been tried without the slightest success.
Then one Digger laid small bets with his cob-
bers that he could put up a “rough ’un”
on the heads. The bets were coc'ered, and
Dig. promptly wrote a little tabbie in Lon-
don, carefully instructing her to send him
a very distressful letter about the usual
thing, and what was he going to do about
it." 1 It seemed that the plotter had spent
a very pleasant 14 days with this particular
charmer about six months before, and
although he had never bothered writing her
since then he never tired of booming her
up to anyone that would listen to him.
Back came the desired epistle with all direc-
tions carefully followed. Inside an hour
Lothario was before the adjutant laying bare
his soul. He felt he must do something for
this unfortunate girl, and painted a sorrow-
ful picture of the poor little thing frightened
to tell her people and without any other
friends to turn to. lie must go to London
and fix her up. A couple of days would
do; even if he married her lie would not
ask for marriage leave. The adjutant
gripped Dig.’s hand and feelingly assured
him he was a gentleman and a credit to his
uniform, and of course he would be given
four days’ leave. Dig. collected his bets and
set sail for London. To his horror, upon
meeting the lady-partner of his scheme he
found that the supposed faked letter only
too plainly told the truth ; the damsel had
been trying to find his address, and what
was he going to do about it? Back he came
to camp, and his remarks on the frailty of
woman would have done credit to the cyni-
cal Schopenhauer. A few days later the
lady told her story to the adjutant. The
hero was promptly sent for, and after a
thundery interview his paybook showed a
compulsory allotment of 9d. per duv.
* * * *
The same spirit that held the Diggers
when the Huns were flung against them out-
side Amiens animated three Queenscliff
(Vic.) fishermen, G. F. and Frank Stephens
(father and son) and W. Dunk, when, return-
ing from a trip along the coast, their motor-
boat missed the channel and crashed on the
outer reef off Point Lonsdale. They had
just time to jump on the rock, with grappling-
irons and lines, before the boat sank. It
was 11 p.m. and no help \Vas possible before
morning, and they knew that when the tide
rose the rock would be 4ft. or sft. under water.
So they wedged the hooks in the stones, tied
the lines round their bodies and waited for
daylight. They were Avashed off their feet
often, but the lines held, and when the grey
dawn broke the lighthouse-keeper rowed over
and rescued three exhausted but still-cheer-
ful mariners.
* * * #
The Hun has great recuperative poAvers.
A cable headline of last week shouted : “Huns
Battling the Sabre.’’ The Day before yester-
day the only thing the Hun was rattling
besides his teeth was a collection-box.
“Jobber” : I think most Diggers on watch
at night in the front line saAv inanimate
things moving. For the first few nights we
were “in” on Gallipoli falling biscuit tins
made banjo stringy of our nerves. After
about a week I stopped seeing things;
but I got a dazzling scare when I thought
I was well set. I was on outpost on
the extreme right. The night was as
black as the Earl of Hell’s riding boots,
and I was watching in a kneeling posi-
tion, when one of the monitors, which
were always poking about, came close
inshore, and suddenly flashed her search-
light right on me!' I suppose it was on
for about 10 seconds, but it seemed like
hours. Even an actor would have cow-
ered under that white beam.
After ordering the expulsion of three
women whom he detected smiling at or try-
ing to ogle the jury, Judge Wasley (Vic.)
said he would not permit any of that in his
court. A bill was recently brought for-
ward by Lawson to prevent jury-squaring.
It overlooked the possibilities of the glad-
eye ; but as the measure has no show this
session perhaps somebody will think out an
apt clause for next.
A despatch from “Callan Park” :
Father Jerger has announced his intention of
returning. In two events, and in two only, is he
certain to be excluded. Assuming W. M. Hughes
is in power, there will be few formalities. Mr.
Hughes is .becoming more mediaeval daily. His
point of view at present is that of a feudal baron in
the presence of a band of disaffected though cringing
villagers; and it is a poor week indeed in which he
doesn’t go back half a century. If Jerger delays his
projected re-entry much longer he will be lucky not
to be met personally on the wharf by the Prime
Minister, and by that high official flung into the
harbor. But assuming Mr. Ryan is in control of
the Commonwealth’s destinies at the time, we may
expect a subtler, though no less effective, move. As
a Constitutionalist and a Democrat, as well as a
Loyalist, Mr. Ryan will fall back on the Alien
Immigration Restriction Act. The scene at the
quayside should be instructive to students of state-
craft. The cleric steps ashore bursting with con-
fidence and disloyal schemes. He is met by the
Pride of Queensland, suave, courteous, impenetrable.
A handshake is exchanged. “Could you stop
one, Tom ?” begins the unsuspecting ex-traitor. “One
moment, my dear Father. The merest formality.
Bligson ' Forward! This is the head of our Depart-
A REMEDIAL MEASURE.
TEACHER: “And Jonah remained three days and three nights in the whale’s body.”
BORED CHILD (familiar with the whale-oil cure): “For his rheumatics, I suppose.”
ment of Languages. Mr. Bligson—Father Jerger.
Our friend, my dear Bligson, will now write for us
20 words in some foreign language. Let us say, in
German.” A baffled howl from the Prussian outlaw,
who knows no other tongue than Australian, pro-
vides the incident with the correct dramatic climax.
How strikingly it all exemplifies the way in which
the sacred principle of Liberty is upheld for us,
whether by the Bendigo (late West Sydney) Empire
Builder, or by the West Sydney (late Brisbane)
Friend of Man! As the Polite Lunatic remarked in
“The Belle of New York”: “Lemon-trees or orange-
trees—it makes no difference to me. I climb both
sorts of trees.”
•* X- * *
“Per Orbem”: I know that many besides
the “ex-permanent officer of wide experi-
ence” (B. 9/9/’2O) believe that the rifle is
an obsolete weapon; but the great British
disaster at Cambrai can be traced to the fact
that bayonet fighting, bombing and machine-
gun work were given an undue preference.
After the British had broken through with
the surprise aid of the tanks, they got so far
ahead of their artillery support and the tanks
that they had to rely on themselves and the
weapons they could carry, viz., rifles, bayonets,
bombs and machine-guns. Instead of stalling
off the German counter-attack with rapid
rifle-fire, they allowed Fritz to come into
bombing distance, when they threw their own
bombs without effect and then attacked with
the bayonet, but were scuppered by over-
whelming numbers. If they had been pro-
. perly trained in musketry, they would have
opened rapid fire at 300 or 400 yards, and
the Huns would never have been able to close
with them. In the first few months of the
war, the opposite was the case; the Regular
troops, properly trained and disciplined, were
able to hold the Huns back with their rifle-
fire alone, and developed such a rate of fire
that the German Staff believed the British
infantry to be armed with machine-guns. As
for sniping I know that most of the snipers
on Gallipoli were rifle-club men, some of whom
had taken their aperture sights with them,
and collaring C.L.M-.L.E. rifles from the
Enzeds, proved their prowess as marksmen as
they had proved it before on the range. Be-
fore the rifle-club snipers came on the field,
the Turks used the ordinary loopholes; but
before long they were using steel plates with
a small loophole in the centre, and our picked
shots were scoring bulls up to 700 yards ou
these. I can claim to have a good know-
ledge of shooting both under service and
range conditions, and I never saw any of the
so-called “natural marksmen” who could
hold a candle to the average rifle-club man.
* * * *
On the silent theatre and its stars:—
The world of Flapperdom has been darkened by a
great grief, for Olive a spoilt young beauty
of the American picture-theatre, has died painfully
and uselessly in a Paris hotel. She was married,
unhappily of course, to Jack Pickford, brother of
Mary and Lottie, and if she had followed tribal
customs she would have departed with a regiment of
reporters for the Divorce Court at Reno, Na., or
Sioux City, South Da., and applied for an increase
in salary of 25,000 dahllars a year. But Olive had
novel ideas on the subject of self-advertisement, or
her press-agent had a streak of originality, which
amounts to the same thing. She decided to take
poison, and unfortunately, she took too much. If it
hadn t ended in a funeral it would have been a
great advt.
Nothing else Was talked of at the Sydney movies
the next Saturday night, and the emotion depicted on
the flappers’ faces was intense. Many were so
overcome that they couldn’t devour more than two
pounds of chocolates, and several anguished young
ladies were heard to refuse another helping of ice-
cream—the sixth.. The danger is that the luckless
Olive will find imitators among the sort of Aus-
truliun girl who has “pitchers’’ on the brain, and
there are thousands like that. Pretty well every-
thing imitable in the appearance and mannerisms
of popular mimes of motion-photography is imitated
by swarms of long-haired devotees. It is becoming
hard to escape the Mary Pickford romp, the Olga
Petrova walk and the Theda Bara wink. Hundreds of
young women wave their hair after the fashion of
their favorite movie-actress, and hundreds of others
reproduce tricks of gait and gesture that they have
seen on the screen. The habit is natural enough,
for the young female of the species is nothing if
not imitative. But imitation can be carried too far.
Olive’s foolish death, points a remark recently
made by a Bulletin writer —that these Yankee pic-
ture stars get more adulation than is good for them.
They move in an orbit of false sentiment and vulgar
advertisement, over-petted and over-paid, over-sexed
and over-fed. They make their money too easily and
have too much time to adnlire their fatal beauty
and so they become vain, self-conscious, self-indul-
gent, indolent and morbid, being half-educated in
the first place and growing too proud to work. The
whole world ministers to their diseased vanity, and
yet most of them have the minds of spoilt children
A LITTLE LATE MAY BE TOO EARLY.
MR. FLOP (paying a call): “ I’m afraid I’m
a little late, Miss Sweet.”
MISS SWEET : “Oh, no, don’t say that—
you couldn't be.”
uni many have the morals of rabbits. Perhaps some
day the silent theatre will be worthy of the tre-
mendous vogue it has attained and become a real
humanising vehicle and instrument of culture instead
of the meretricious abemination it too often is now.
But it will have to get, rid of the “star” infliction
first. The best pictures were''made in the days when
there were no stars.
(Continued on page 18.)
A TYPEWRITER LYRIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Clickety-chi eke ty-cluck-clack-click,
The typewriter chatters the moments away ;
The rosy-white fingers that jiggle and flick
Have something of urgent importance to say.
Chatter and flick till a little bell rings—
Oh, a melody strange'the typewriter sings! •
Eights and tens and sevens and nines
Set upon paper in straight blue lines;
Somebody’s bill and settle it quick—
Clickety-claekety-clack-clack-click.
Clickety-elackety-click-click-elack—
Somewhat unevenly moves the lilt.
A thin little scrunch as the bar goes back
And a girl’s fine head with a dreaming tilt
Tell of romance and a garden gate
And sweet line things that never can wait —
Chatter and flick and a papery hiss
Are Manly beach and a moonlit kiss.
Somebody’s waiting ; so finish it quick—
Clickety-elackety-clack-clack-elick!
Clackety-claekety-elack-clack-clack
And a thundery hum from the table below;
Bump and jiggle and whack-whack-whack—
Hit it again and it’s bound to go!
Wallop and wallop and rumble and roar
Like galloping steeds on a night-black shore;
lambic thump—don’t the white keys know ’em ?
It’s Jane in her rapture composing a poem !
So the sad machine with her rhymes on its back
Goes clackety-raekety-whack-whack-whack!
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


m
a
TOT
/;
«
Vd
m
m
*
m
rjf ?
*v
s 9»
■■
X
*»
*• •<*. #
6 ’"^ < <f ''*' *
»
I*
V
u
mk
: •
ijHHHf
.
%
srjßi
yfm
M
am
L 4
n
:
. ■
1
n
■
,¥'■' : .
V
HMSSi *
■
m i
■ ■
'■ -
0
r ft
■; *
■
•’;- >• ;..•
■
J •
;v .
«■*
1
SfeK
- X
■
DO PLAY IT AGAIN!
HOW the latest “musical hit” appeals to your friends, and how well
it sounds on the ever-popular Pianola Piano. What a delightful
diversion at your tennis or croquet parties? How jolly to dance
on the verandah to the Pianola, too ?
INSIST ON SEEING THE WORD
PIANOLA ON THE PIANO YOU BUY.
PIANOLA PIANOS are made in the STEINWAY. STECK, STROUD
and the English-made WEBER. All models can be obtained on terms
and are illustrated in Catalog ''B.” Pianos accepted in part payment.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY PTY. LTD.
(“AEOLIAN” registered trade-mark),
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
252 Collins Street, Melbourne. 436 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Corner Gawler Place and Rundle Street, Adelaide.
m
i
v\
m
mi
m
: m
i m
CUT OUT AND POST NOW
Please send me PIANOLA PIANO
Catalog "B.’'
Name -
Address■


Clerks!
Qualify and
Promotion.
Don’t wait for promotion. Earn it.
Master our Accountancy Course, win your
Degree, and success is certain. Thousands
of our students doubled and trebled their
salaries this way. You can do the same.
Write or call for a free copy of our book
“Accountancy”—shows you clearly how to
qualify —the cost, etc. Apply to nearest v
address.
SEND FOR
THIS FREE
BOOK .
ar
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON
The Accountancy Specialists,
MELBOURNE:
Aberdeen House,
528 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
London Bank Chambers,
Moore Street.
AUCKLAND:
Union Buildings
Custom Street.
IN 1807— FOREMOST EVER SINCE.”
STA<a
LMER
ONLY,
PLEASE.
No Substitutes.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management v-f Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America cr the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Spare-Corp.” : A curious aftermath of the
war is the disinclination of the returned sol-
dier who used to be a policeman to return
to Ins beat. Rare was the.policeman-soldier
who could be induced to become an M.P.
abroad. So great was the difficulty of
obtaining “Jacks” in the A.I.F. that on the
failure of a bribe of rank as 2nd corporal—
who was a lance-corporal with the difference
tnat the 2nd corporal drew extra pay for
his stripe—a special canvass was made of
ex-constables, and that also failed, badly.
Robert in khaki disliked the M.P. as cordi-
tßill from Outback or Chiller from
ijittle Riley-street, and possibly the memory
of it has prejudiced him against his old job.
Also, the policeman who has been an M P
probably reckons that the old billet is no
longer safe, now that there is a daily likeli-
hood of meeting et-Diggers with long memo-
ries. Amongst the hilarious incidents of
armistice-time was the hurling of three
Jacks over the bridge into the river at
Weymouth, and similar pleasantries happened
AND ONE FOR HIS NOB.
“So our engagement is at an end! I sup-
pose you will return the engagement-
ring?”
"Oh, certainly, if you will call around some
night and pick it out."
elsewhere; whilst threats of what was going
to happen to the M.P.’s in Australia were so
frequent that some of them got the wind up,
and sought discharge in England.
“Sixenate” : The servant-girl detective has
arrived in Sydney to frustrate the knavish
tricks of man, proud man. She was the
Mary Jane in a boarding-house in which the
parties to the subsequent suit were staying,
and she noticed the man who became co-re.
walk, in his stockinged feet, to the lady’s
bedroom and disappear inside. Securing a
key that fitted, she locked the door so that
the trapped Eothario could not get out with-
out raising the house. Then she went in
search of hubby, who was in the billiard-
room, and he went in search of his solicitor.
"Hamer”: Other unions might borrow a
wrinkle or two from the Watchmakers and
Jewellers as to the treatment of returned men.
kong before vocational training arrived the
lyio Conference of that union discussed
what should be done to make up the train-
ing of juvenile members who had been away
fighting; and now
that the war is
over the union
stretches out a
friendly hand to ex-
Diggers. Ail the
men being trained
in the jewellery
trade by the Re-
patriation Depart-
ment are invited,
as guests, to the
u n i o n’s picnic ;
employers are cir-
cularised with the
object of finding
positions for the
trainees when they
are ready to be
passed out of the
schools; and, best
of all, journeymen
in the shops are
pledged to assist
the ne w 1 y-made
jewellers to become
expert. The same
attitude is ‘exhibited
towards men who
are learning the
jewellery business
because war in-
juries have unfitted
them for their pre-
vious trades. The
union’s view is that,
not only have the
ex-soldiers earned
gratitude for the
work overseas, but an organisation that
wants to restrict imports needs skilled crafts-
men to aid in the good work. It’s a much
broader view than most other organisations
adopt.
* * • •
A State expert departmental officer was
sent to Pentridge to examine the big boiler
which was said to be exhibiting some faults.
When he was crawling through it he saw
a human head bob up, with a face all
covered with grime. “What are you here
for t demanded the officer. “Burglary,”
replied the prisoner, and then explained tnat
he had been sent to “tidy up a bit” for th->
visitor.
* * * *
“Mirza”: There is a theory based on a few
million observations that mentally and phy-
sically great men are most likely to be the
younger sons of large families. The breed
seems to reach its zenith at the sixth child,
and remains practically stationary until
there is a general and
natural decline i n
the health of the
parents. Napoleon was
the eighth child of his
parents; Daniel Web-
ster the seventh;
Coleridge the 13th;
Irving the 11th ; Wag-
ner the seventh; Ben-
jamin Franklin the
17th. Long before
these Joseph rose to
pre-eminent heights in
Egypt, and the theory
holds good, too, even
in the, poetical myth-
ology of Greece and
Rome. It suggests that
those countries which
l’eject the Malthusian
doctrines (or, what
amounts to the same
thing, refuse to inhabit
flats) will ultimately
triumph over those
where the use of con-
traceptives flourishes
or is at least con-
doned. And it hints uncomfortably at the
future supremacy of the colored races in
learning, trade and war.
* * * *
“Farrier” : One naval surgeon has lost
his enthusiasm as an anti-V.D. propagandist.-
With the fervor of a reformer it was his
custom weekly to lecture the ship’s com-
pany on V.D., and in time his thoroughness
led him to compile a list of the names of
shore sirens to whom his sailor patients
attributed their misfortune. “Sailor Nancy.”
“Jean.” “Baronga Kate” and others duly
figured in the black list which fie read to the
ship’s company assembled. “Arid now, lads,”
said he one day, “i wish particularly to
warn you against a newcomer, ‘Dimples,’
with whom two of your shipmates have
become acquainted to their sorrow.” There
was an ominous hush as an A.B. broke ranks
and. marching to the quack, asked in a dan-
gerously quiet voice, “Excuse me, sir, did
you say ‘Dimples’?” “Yes, ‘Dimples,’ my lad.
Have you anything to fear yourself?” A
spasm of twitching facial muscles denoted
suppressed fury which threatened murder,
at the very least. Then years of naval
discipline asserted itself. “I’ll have you
know, sir, that ’Dimples’ is my s wife,”
growled the sailor, saluting and rejoining the
ranks, leaving the quack, his face blown up
like a Zeppelin, trying to stammer apologies.
ACCOMMODATING.
“You know, dear heart, we can only afford
a quiet wedding.”
“Oh, I'd hate that! What about a quiet
breach-of-promise instead?”
“GIG” : “Spare Corp’s’’ par (B. 2/9/’2O)
about the 400 graves of Australian soldiers
not yet found reminds me of the number of
“missing” not yet accounted for and sends
my mind back to the winter of 1910-17 bn the
Somme, where in many places you waded
knee-deep and thigh-deep in mud or muddy
water. When you had to pull an unwounded
but helpless man out of a shell-hole with
stretcher-slings, it made you think of the
possibilities of mysteriously losing men. One
dark night I was standing at the side of a
sunken road, up on the left of Flers, watch-
ing the ration party go up to H.Q. The
brigade had had a strenuous time in this area,
and the men’s nerves and bodies, if not their
hearts, were well-nigh broken. The end of this
ration party apparently having gone by. I
was turning to follow them, when I heard a
faint cry in the distance. Waiting awhile
and listening, I saw r a figure approach, strug-
glmg, floundering and falling through the
knee-deep mud. He stopped to rest awhile
and to readjust his bags of rations, then on
again, but into deeper mud. It was his
last effort —he was done. He floundered anu
fell, sinking deep and deeper into that
damned •much his voice feebly crying out :
I m done, I’m done !” ■ And there he wmuld
have sunk and smothered, had it not chanced
that someone was there to lend a. hand.
* * * *■
“Fax” : Coburg (Melbourne) stems incap-
able ot making up its mind about the altera-
tion of its name to Moreland. At a muni-
cipal election it took a vote on. the ques-
tion, and “Moreland” was chosen by a majo-
rity of 400 votes. Since then dissentients
.0 r °tested that the referendum was not
sufficiently advertised, so the council has
decided to invite a petition against the
change. If a petition, signed by 200, is sent
in within the next (hree months the council
wull repeat the referendum. It reminds one
of a monologue delivered by the late S.vd Day
on the music-hall stage, when he appeared
as a dead-beat who had found a thrum,
lie tossed it up to decide whether he should
spend the money on a shave or a beer, and
the coin fell in favor of the shave. Where-
upon he tossed it up once more in order to
give the beer a charnce. If, on the next
spin, the change to Moreland is reaffirmed,
it will be a humorous reflection on the
ancestry of King George, whose grand-dad,
Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg, was the in
spiration of the district’s loyal title. Mean-
wbile the inhabitants of Heidelberg, not far
distant, continue to bear their Teuton cross
uncomplainingly.
* * * *
“Unistates”: The high cost of living won’t
worry the Australian section of the U S A
consular service so long as the present rates
of exchange hold. The Consuls and their
staffs are paid in dollars, and nowadays this
means a boost of 30 or 40 per cent, in
salaries. The Australians who have a job
in the offices may deplore, as citizens of the
Commonwealth, the depreciation of our cur-
rency, but there’s a joyful feeling about the
first of every month. In the same way some
of the Australian and other people who have
jobs in “the East” are having a glorious
time—actually, their salaries have more
than doubled in local value during the past
three or four years. On the other hand,
some of the Australians who have jobs in
the London offices of Commonwealth busi-
nesses are pleading to be sent home; but
that isn’t exchange—it is partly H.CX. and
partly post-war taxation. An Australian
house was looking the other day for a man
for a London job that used to be reckoned
worth £6OO or £7OO a year. It offered
£lOOO, and after making inquiries the man
who was offered the job fixed the value at
£1500.^
“Sir Spen”: A woman was advising our
firm that during the absence of her soldier-
husband she would be empowered to act
for him. “Bill,” she wrote, “will leave me
power of eternity.”
* * * *
“Sydney Grad”: It is no wonder visiting
journalists poke fun at us for our State
provincialism. The turning-down of Sydney-
educated midwifery nurses in Victoria is
a sample of our pettiness. What other reason
save ignoble inter-State jealousy is respon-
sible for this treatment of Melbourne women
who have had the good fortune to get a
training in midwifery at the Royal Hospi-
tal for Women or the Sydney Women’s Hos-
pital? I should say the training obtained
in those institutions, and the examinations
held afterwards by competent doctors, are
equal to anything in the world ; nevertheless,
on their return home Melbourne has turned
such nurses down, and will not allow them
to practise their profession until they have
“sat” again before local examiners.
“E.D.”: Queer what various things made
the deepest impression on the Diggers. One
man I know saw four years of the war. He
was in the thick of things all the time, saw
towns demolished, districts given over to mud
land blood, and slaughtered men lying thick
on many a field ; yet this is the one story he
brought back from France. He and others
pushed into a farm-house. I'hey found the
usual ruin, furniture smashed, one room
gutted by fire, and two peasants, a man and
a woman, lying dead in a passage. Then
just as they opened the door leading into
what had been the sitting-room, a canary in
a cage suspended before the window gave a
shrill call, and fell from its perch, dead.
You might get him to tell without emotion
of comrades killed by his side; that was
all in the game. But the sudden death of
that caged bird is the horror he is never
going to forget.
* * * *
“Boj”: Private Tuffan had exceeded his
wine-limitr and was about to pay the price.
The prisoner and escort had halted in front
of the table, right-turned and clicked heels
impressively. “Seven days,” snapped the
Major with startling speed. “But, sir.”
pleaded the prisoner. “Fourteen days.”
rapped out the terror. “Gorstruth!” gasped
INTUITION.
“Gwenny and I were great pals, but ice don't
speak now.”
"How perfectly thrilling! What’s his
name?”
the disgusted Digger. “Twenty-eight days,
arid no more of your damned impudence!”
There was a pause, broken at last by the
prisoner. “Take me away, sergeant,'’ he
groaned ; “this man isn’t a soldier, he’s u
auctioneer!’’
SOB STUFF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The increase of ‘nerves’ is acquiring national sig-
nificance. A good cry as an emotional safety-valve
is highly commendable.”—Age.
Come, poets, sit in fellowship,
And hold each others’ hands,
While copiously we ooze and drip.
Quinn, let lachrymal moisture slip,
And mingle with the sands.
Cry “800-hoo!” Brother Bedford, do;
Wail, Lawson, by my side;
And, David Wright, ’tvvere well for you
If twice a day you cried.
I know what ’tis that’s ailing Hughes—
The man should pipe his eye,
And say unto the House: “Excuse,
These arguments my nerves abuse —
I’m going to have a cry;
Don’t mind me, please, if I should howl,
And pull a visage drear.
Just send attendants with a tow’l—
\ I’ll weep my heart out here.”
If Tom Jo Ryan were quite wise
He’d lead his party blent
In strenuous sobbing exercise,
And all would sit and bay the skies
In dolorous content.
Far better statesmen they would be
If all their pent-up fears
Would flow away, a turbid sea
Of salt, torrential tears.
And in society ’tis vain
A hardy front to keep.
We might be happy folk again
In tram-cars did we not disdain
To sit a while and weep.
With sobs the Judge could ease his grief;
The taxpayer, it appears,
May from his burden find relief
In hot, unceasing tears.
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


From. George the Third
To George the Fifth
One Hundred years long
Born 1820. Still going strong.
m
i
ss
**•<>
V
L
<2
*L.
r
• --^xis
fS
i{ (P
v >
-V
9»
/
]£
<asa
%
JOHNNIE WALKER TRAVEL SERIES. NO. 4 AT ADEN.
Tourist : “ You have got a high seat there.”
Johnnie Walker : “ For One Hundred years it has always been one of
my privileges to take away the hump.
a!
JOHN
WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND,


EDGEWORTH
Smoking Tobacco.
1]
Doctors praise
LICMOLLIENE
The Positive Healer
It cures Eczema
when all else Fails.
Grateful cured patients of Severe
Eczema and various Skin Ailments
continually write in the most stirring
manner, and invariably mention that
“LIGMOLLIENE” has cured when all
other treatment has failed. Also,
doctors use "and prescribe it. Don’t
fail to get “LIGMOLLIENE” for
Eczema, all Chronic and Superficial
Skin Diseases, Varicose, Ulcers, Piles,
Irritation, Soreness, etc.
Prices: 5/6, 7/G tin, or trial sample
tin at 1/6 from Proprietors, W. H.
MALYON and SON, Chemists, Sturt
Street, Ballarat, Vic. - 3
ssaaans y
King Georgs 1V
the TOP-NOTCHSeotch
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“McNorth”: Like some of her sisters
with pale skins, Mary Binghi of the Far North
rarely squats for a spell or a gossip without produc-
ing some “work” to keep her fingers busy. In the
camps about Cape York partly finished dilly-bags
and pliable baskets and stocks of material are always
in evidence whenever two or more females are gath-
ered together.’ The material is’" generally broad-
leafed la-lang grass, split fine and bleached. Brown
strands for the working of patterns are obtained by
soaking the grass in water in which iron has been
rusted. Some of the designs evidence a good deal
of taste, and all are carried through with artistic
completeness. Mrs. and Miss Binghi are expert
weavers, with fingers that work almost automati-
cally, and the only pause is when the inevitable
cigarette of trade tobacco rolled in newspaper or
ti-tree bark comes round, or when the “work” is
dropped in gasped appreciation of an extra-spicy bit
of news about the moral slippings of the cat in the
next mia-mia.
A MOVIE IN THE MAKING.
CINEMA OPERATOR ( excitedly): “It’s a
gem! For Heaven’s sake, keep it up
for a fere minutes —the Hanley machine's
gone cronk!”
“H.W.G.”: I will not contradict “FY7,”
who writes (B. 12/8/’2O) maintaining that canni-
balism was practised in North Queensland, but I will
give iqy own experience. lam one of the oldest pioneers
of the North, having arrived in Rockhampton in the
early part of 1858. I went out with Mr. D. Conner
to form Collaroy station (Conner’s River and Range
are named after him), 160 miles from Rockhampton.
The furthest-out station then was Marlborough,
owned by Mr. Henning; and as it was all virgin
bush we worked we had the opportunity of seeing
the blacks in their primitive state. We travelled
up the Isaac and McKenzie and Conner’s rivers, and
frequently' came in contact with the natives, who
were numerous on those rivers. Whilst on Collaroy
we had frequent encoifnters with them, as they took
to robbing the shepherds’ huts: they killed three
men and very nearly did for me. I was also with
the first lot of cattle that went out to form Bowen
Downs station, Mr. N. Buchanan in charge, the
farthest-out station at the time being Lake Elphin-
stone, A. McEwin owner. We travelled up the
Sutton and Belyando rivers, where the blacks were
more numerous than in any other locality I have
known. I am certain we were the first white men
most of them had ever seen. “FY7” Speaks of the
Jardines, Johnstone and Douglas. I knew the Jar-
dines well. Robert Johnstone was a mate of mine
in Mackay: we afterwards became connected by
marriage. I was his sole companion in many an
expedition driving the niggers back after they had
speared cattle. After joining the native police, he
was stationed at Fort Cooper, and we went on patrol
together for over 12 months. On one occasion, I
saw the mutilated bodies of a man, his wife and
infant, and I think if cannibalism had existed we
must have seen something of it. I am sure I saw
duiing those early days over 20 murdered men,
mostly shepherds. They were nearly all terribly
mutilated, but there was no cannibalism. I was
on Lypdhurst station, Einasleigh River, during the
Palmer rush, and used to hear most ghastly tales
of the blacks from travellers; but they were all
second-hand yarns. It was always, ”1 heard so-and-
so, *or I was told so-and-so. v I have never mot
a man who came into direct contact with canni-
balism either on the coast or inland. I know the
coast from Broadsound to Townsville, and travelled
it before it was settled, and was inland as well
during the ’sixties, and I affirm that I never saw
one instance of cannibalism or any evidence that
would lead" me to believe cannibalism existed. I
have frequently come upon blacks’ camps unex-
pectedly and found no signs of it. 1 know there is
(or, rather, was) a sort of religious ceremony, at
what was called a bora—that is, the making of
young men and women—when all the tribes met for
that purpose, and when an infant was killed, roasted
and divided amongst them all as a sort of sacrifice.
I knew a gin who told me she received the little
finger for her portion. But you can’t call that
cannibalism. “FY7” may be right, nevertheless: I
merely give my experience, which is pretty exten-
sive, and I say most emphatically that I don’t
believe cannibalism existed in North Queensland.
* * * *
A note from explorer David Lindsay:—
Re J.P.H. s ’ par. about white women overlanding
from , Queensland to the Northern Territory (B.
26/8/’2O). Mrs. Favenc did not go across to the
N.T.; she ami Mrs. Creagh, the wife of a member of
the party, started, but Sirs. Favenc went only as far
as Normanton, where she was taken ill, and returned
to her home. Mrs. Creagh, however, completed the
trip. I met her at the Katherine—l think it was
in 1883. Capt. Creagh was afterwards killed on
iiru-i’ 80 ! 1 I,owns station in remarkable circumstances,
while breaking in a young mare he was wearing a
“ng, an heirloom, about which there was attached
a tradition that lie who lost it would meet with a
violent death. In a struggle with the mare, Creagh,
who had become thin through fever, lost the ring.
He then related the prophecy, saying, “I expect
that mare will be the death of me.” Next day
she dashed into a tree and Creagh was killed.
* * * *
tl Te Whare” :In addition to the satin and
spotted bower-birds—the first a
coastal scrub-lodger and the second a*
more western variety—Australia has
another bower-builder of the genus
Prionodura, which constructs a more
elaborate play-arbor than either of
the two first mentioned. This bird
homes in Northern Queensland, and
builds its main bower around the base
of a tree to a height of from 4ft. to
6ft., while about it are a number
of gunyah-like structures. The tooth-
billed bower-bird and the cat-bird,
on the other hand, are content with
mere playgrounds, over which green
leaves are strewn. But the amblyornis,
a New Guinea bird, allied to the Aus-
tralian bower-birds, goes one better.
This freak fowl is described by Bec-
oari, an Italian naturalist, as build-
ing a small hut or cabin at the foot
of a tree. The structure is about
2ft. high and roofed with orchid
stems. An opening is left in the
front of the hut, outside of which the
aesthetic birds form a bed of moss,
which they decorate with brightly-
colored blossoms and berries. The
amblyornis is a dull-colored bird. I
don’t think it has yet turned up
stuffed at the Australian Museum
(Sydney), but there is a fine sample
of the spotted bower-birds’ architec-
ture, with the architects in attendance.
* * * *
Look out while I throw a lump
of mud at “Wart” (B. 26/8/’2O), who evidently
confuses pise houses with mud ditto. Pise is
merely dirt; that is, the soil is dug up and simply
rammed into a frame, or casing, along with some
long straw, or something similar, to help to bind
the more-or-less dry dirt. These buildings, if
exposed to the weather, will crumble away in no
time, and they will soak up moisture like a sponge.
Adobe houses, on the other hand, if properly con-
structed and made of the right stuff, are practically
everlasting, and would defy a 40-days’ flood. The
materia] for mud (adobe) houses is mixed up wet,
like mortar, and not shoved in dry, like pise.
“141”: That bees’ nest, Bft. long and con-
taining 34 kerosene-tins’ full of honey, which “Shel-
ley” (B. 2/9/’2O) recently discovered on the
Clarence, is only a pup compared with one I helped
to rob on the Upper Hawkesbury a couple of years
back. This one had been in a big ironbark-tree
for nearly five years, apd feeling energetic one Sun-
day morning three of us cut it down. The nest
extended along the hollow for over 10ft., and we
got from it eight kerosene-tins’ full of honey, 71b.
of' wax and several stings.
“C.J.P.”: Extract from advertisement
by Assistant-Forester Fraser, of Atherton (N.Q.),
calling tenders for purchase of one cedar-tree:—
Lot 2.—One red cedar-tree, standing on portion
131, Parish of Dunbulla, containing about 24,000
superficial feet (quarter-girth method measurement).
The girth of the butt log is 34ft. 7in. I don’t
think we have many better.
“Hawkshaw”: “Yacko” (B. 26/8/'2O)
says he has tried a new way of dressing a pig
burning or rather singeing the hair off. Well, it
was very old when I was born, and I am more
than seven. I wonder it is not generally used on
farms where there are no conveniences for scalding.
Wheat straw is‘ best, but I have made good jobs
BREAKING THE MONOTONY.
PATIENT PATIENT: “Look here, doctor, you've operated on me three times for
'pendicitis, and I'm just as bad as ever.”
DR. KWACK: “ What you need, my dedr sir, is a complete change. My next operation
shall be for gall-stones.”
with cabbage-tree leaves. The bacon is much firmer
than when the animal is scalded, as the skin con-
tracts. “Yacko’s” gridiron is not required. Spread
a very thin layer of straw on the ground, lay the
pig belly down, stretching the feet and legs out,
and jamb a stone in his mouth. Lay a little straw
over Imp. Light the combustibles at the tail-end.
Have two sticks to lift the straw, and an old
broom handy to brush off the cinders. Then turn
him on his back and put a very light fire over the
belly—it must be very light, otherwise the flanks
will crack when the carcase is hung up. Burn
just so that the skin blisters. Then all hands can
get to work with a soft brick or sandstone, using
plenty of water. Roll a bit of straw into a wisp
to give the feet a little extra singeing to remove
the trotters.
A COMPLETE DEFENCE THIS TIME.
“’Ere, caught yer rcodin' them there dread-
fuls ag'in, 'ave I?"
“No, you 'aren't. It’s history."
“Wot 'istory?"
“Of the Kelly gang."
“Doxite”: Re duck-crosses. Tame ducks
frequenting lakes and lagoons readily cross with teal
as well as with black duck. The teal cross resemble
Indian runners. I know one farmer who sold them
for tabic purposes as such.
“Bardoe”: C. E. Lord, of the Tasmanian
Museum, and H. H. Scott, of Launceston, poring
over the remains of the extinct marsupial specimen
(Nototherium mitchelli ) found in Mowbray Swamp,
in North-I\ estern Tasmania, have come to some
interesting conclusions. They reckon that the closest
uresent-day relative of the pre-Eocene beasts is the
Wombat. A picture of one of these animals en
larged to the size of a cow, and with a large horn
of the rhino variety protruding from its snout, would
most nearly approach a photo of its defunct cousin.
If he wasn’t a cantankerous customer he ought to
have been, for he had all the equipment to make
himself nasty—horn, front teeth and well-developed
fangs. The horn of the skeleton has disappeared, but
the queer cup-like cavity of the nasal bones into
which it fitted shows that it was built to withstand
as many shocks as a Prime Minister.
“Riom”: I rise to tell - “Te W.” (B.
26/8/’2O) that black swans and wild duck will
breed in captivity. Broods of black swan have been
raised in parks in England, and, strange as it may
seem, their breeding-time coincided with that of
Australia, i.e., while the snow was thick on the
ground over there. Black ducks, too, will lay in
captivity; if their eggs are taken each day they
will lay quite a number. I never raised any under
a duck, but sat 10 of the eggs under a hen, and
scored a possible. Practically all our birds will
breed in captivity. Of course they must have a
certain amount of space. Even among humans there
arc not many babies in flats.
(Continued on page 22.)
ADAM’S OVERSIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Last summer the snakes were so numerous on
my place up near Beechworth that we had to put
up a kind of scarecrow near the drinking places to
keep them away.” —Letter from a Victorian settler.
Man fell from high estate wherein
He had a status quite angelic,
Of which condition, free of sin,
Humanity holds not a relic.
Our hopes of happiness were spilt
When Adam let the serpent-breed in.
What bliss were mine had he but built
A scarecrow in the fields of Eden!
VICTORIA.
E. D.
“Bill Bowyang”: Old settlers in Banana-
land relate many instances of cannibalism in that
State. In 1871, at Mariana station, 13 miles
from Maryborough, a half-caste named George Walker
bled to death from a cut artery in the leg. The
following morning two white stockmen visited
Binghi’s camp and came upon a large crowd of
blacks who were devouring the deceased half-caafe.
A half-cooked leg was hanging from the limb of
a tree and a brother of the dead man conversed
with the visitors while he devoured portion of a
rib. Aboriginal children were killed and eaten at
Noranside, Roxburgh and Carandotta. In 1888,
between the two last-named places, a man
named Edwards saw an infant being roasted in a
native oven, and subsequently he watched the blacks
open the body and remove the fat, which they de-
voured before touching the rest of the body. Dr.
Roth, late Protector of Aborigines in Queensland,
is responsible for the statement that as late as
1896 the natives of the Leichhardt and Sehvyn
districts devoured the corpses of friend and foe
even in cases where the flesh was visibly rotten with
venerea] disease. I could give many other instances
of aboriginal cannibal feasts, but as this is a dis-
agreeable subject I’ll go across the road and have
a beer before the pub closes.


THREE NEW
AUSTRALIAN NOVELS.
Is. 3d. each. Is. 4td. Posted.
“HARRY DALE’S GRAND NATIONAL,”
by Jack North.
A Great Sporting Story.
“THE SAVAGERY OF MARGARET NESTOR,”
by Jack McLaren.
A Splendid Story of North Queensland.
“HACK’S BRAT,” by A. lan Macleod.
An Unusual Australian Bush Story with a Wide Appeal.
THESE ARE ONLY THREE OF
Over 100 Australian Novels
in the
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Books.
The Commonwealth’s Foremost Fiction Series.
Including Novels by all the best of Australian Authors.
1/3 each— All One Price- 1/4* posted.
WRITE FOR A COMPLETE CATALOGUE.
ALL BOOKSTALLS AND BOOKSELLERS IN THE COMMONWEALTH,
or direct from the Publishers,
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL
476 George St,,
SYDNEY.
f&v &■ y -XsEl
Gillette
i
the universal razor!
For every shaver —everywhere—for boundary-rider and
business-man, for the surveyor and the traveller, for all who
require a gopd, clean, velvet shave the GILLETTE is the
one safety razor that will give efficient shaving service no
matter what the conditions or lack of convenience. Twenty
million men throughout the world—men in every class and
every activity—acknowledge the superiority of the Gillette.
Standard Set, complete in neat leather case as illustrated, 28/ 6
Obtainable everywhere.
Gillette Safetv Razor Co., Canada.
S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Wholesale Agents,
Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide.
LOOK FOR THIS TRADE-MARK.
Sees*
**<9WN THE
WORLD OVER
mi i
AjuvouncetKe Opening
Jjistn\cfive
w
D
Returned
Sailors and
Soldiers
allowed
10%
Discount.
£
7
£*wr
Write for Patterns.
The Stylish
“All Wool” Navy Serge
“Quality” Suit
£715
Made to
Measure.
Leviathan tailored, ensuring
faultless fit and finish, in all-wool
navy serge and superior all-wool
tweeds, smartest patterns. Satis-
faction guaranteed.
HOME-MEASUREMENT CHART
AND TAPE ON APPLICATION.
RETURNED SOLDIERS.
NOTICE!
Material obtained from the
Repatriation Department Cut and
Tailored in Our Best Style. Lin-
ings, trimmings, buttons, etc.,
supplied.
SPECIAL PRICE, £4/10/-
This price is strictly net.
ORDER BY POST—WE PAY CARRIAGE
m T**
Leviathan
Pty.
Ltd.
. .
Corner SWANSTON
and BOURKE STS.,
MELBOURNE.
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE
SIDED
3/6
EACH
upiM
10-inch
double-
sided
3/6
EACH
SOME SPLENDID BRITISH-MADE
“REGAL” RECORDS
From No. 32 Supplement Now on Sale.
All Double-sided, at 3/6 each.
G7492
G7493
G7494
G7495
G749G
G7497
G7498
G7499
G7500
G7501
G7502
G7503
G7504
G7505
G7506
G7507
Wingates Band
( Wellington March 7. "7. 7....' Wingates Band
( Viscount Nelson March Wingates Band
(“The Mikado” Selections Wingates Band
l “The Siege of Rochelle e H. M . Welsh Guards, with Xylophone solo
5 Be Souvenir «ana 01 Welsh Guards< with Xylophone solo
l Jongleur Galop Alexander Prince, concertina
J Pussyfoot March ' ‘ Alexander Prince, concertina
t Tony Spagoni * oxtrot ’ Eric Randolph, tenor
| Once Again ;;•••: Eric Randolph, tenor
l The Garden of Vour Heart - Chocolate . colore d Coon”
{ H. Elliott; “The
s Dardanella, Foxtrot (Dance Music) Regal Dance Orchestra
t Wyoming Waltz (Dance Music) Geo Diamond, baritone
\ Beautiful Olno Geo. Diamond, baritone
l My Baby’s Awns •; • ’ ’ ’' ’ .7.7. William Thomas, tenor
S In the Band of Beginning Again William Thomas, tenor
) Somewherlf in' 'some" Corner ' oV the ' World Doris Artton, soprano
( The Kingdom Within Your Eyes
You’d Be Surprised
J Sand Dunes— Onestep (Dance Music) ptmce Orchestra
I Hindustan, Foxtrot (Dance Music) Regal Dance urcuesc a
\ S£2ftt"gZ ® a M c u e sS ance . Mu8 . ic !. - • t. w; SS&M SSS
Stanley Irving, tenor
{ io-night by the Firelight Glow 7.7.7.7.77.7.7.7.7/7. 7 William Thomas, tenor
Dorina Valse— Novelty Dance (Dance Music) T. W. Thnrban’s Dance Orchestra
(Dance Music) ....... . t! w! Thurban’s Dance Orchestra
f Eulalie—Valse Tyrolean (Dance Music) .... T. W. Thurban’s Dance Orchestra
l The New Empress Waltz (Dance Music)
T. W. Thurban’s Dance Orchestra
SYDNEY N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Dalting House, Rawson Place.
MELBOURNE. VIC., and TASMANIA. —Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Pty ,
' Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH. VV.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON. N.Z.— Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. —Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 243 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—-' Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


TRADE MARK.
Sterling facts
concerning Metal Ceilings.
On Economic and Artistic Points Stamped Steel is now employed for every class of Building—
ECONOMICALLY, because of its Permanency, Adaptability, Simplicity in Fixing, and light weight for Transport.
ARTISTICALLY, because it is the best possible medium for accurately reproducing the modeller’s art.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
MANUFACTURERS.
SHOWROOMS:—SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE, HOBART, LAUNCESTON.
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: Baptist Street, Redfern, N.S.W. POSTAL ADDRESS: Box 474 G.P.0., Sydney.
“Bill R.”: “Jim Ca rew’s” birds a.s
weather prophets (B. 20/8/’2O) are slouches in the
business compared with frogs and toads, especially
those of the tree variety. Bushmen students of
nature become accustomed to tree-frog language,
and judge from the variations in their squawk the
sort of weather to be expected for days ahead. Also,
after drought, when creek frogs that have long
been missing from the diminishing waterlioles sud-
denly reappear, hopping about the dried watercourse,
a flood within a week may safely be wagered on.
At Bibbenluke woolshed, on the Monaro (N.S.W.),
a frog that had taken up a homestead lease on a
floating shingle in the shed tank became so reliable
that the housing of unshorn sheep was regulated by
his warnings. When he serenaded from the over-
flow pipe the flocks were shoved under cover, even
though not a cjoud appeared over the horizon; but
A MOST UNFORTUNATE MAN.
FIRST BLOKE (out on strike) : “Been outer
work long , Bill?”
SECOND BLOKE: “Weeks an’ weeks.”
FIBST BLOKE : “ ’Ard luck.”
SECONK BLOKE : “ ’Tis 'ard luck, when a
bloke is willin’ to strike and ’e can’t
get a job!”
when he voyaged round in his customary place on the
shingle they were left afield, until their turn came
in the barber’s chair. Not once in the two seasons
that he inhabited the tank did his forecast pan out
a duffer.
“Rusty”: When the Alma bowling-
green was laid out some years ago at Caulfield two
sugar-gums were cut down to make room for the
rinks. The trunks were trimmed of branches and
used as posts to buttress a sandbank at one end of
the green. Those posts are now shapely trees. One
trunk was put in the ground upside-down, but the
shoots obligingly sprang from the upturned bole as
MORE EXPERIENCED STILL.
MOTORIST: “ It's your own fault you were hit. You must have been careless. Why,
I've been driving a car for six years!"
SWAG: “Yom — you road hog! Me careless —why I’ve been walking for sixty years!”
if it were a common feat of Nature. Eucalypts rarely
grow from cuttings, but. I remember seeing them do
it in North-Eastern Victoria. The school fence
was mended by putting two freshly-cut grey-box forks
in the ground. That spring was exceptionally wet,
and the forks soon had shoots 2ft. long. They
died off in the summer, though.
* * * *
“H.A.T.”: “Leo Lear” asks (B. 2G/8/’2O)
if any Abo. has kept a koala in captivity for more
than six months. Yes, in Brisbane I had a buck
for two years, but he was handled little, and his
diet was a natural one. At his cage one morning
I found another “teddy”; where she came from I
don’t know, but it must have been a long way. As
she was young and prepossessing, I admitted her
to the society she craved, and by-and-bye there was
another little friend for Norman Lindsay.
“Bill”: Re tree-climbing snakes, it’s just
as well to remember that all the
sinuous tribe are tainted with the
habit. I’ve seen brown, black,
tiger, carpet, diamond, whip and
green snakes searching for birds
and eggs in trees. And I've often
wondered how it is that so few
birds build their nests on the
extreme p o.i n t of swinging
branches, as the fantail does.
This beautiful little bird is the
architect of a most cunningly-
constructed residence suspended
on the fringe of a branch selected
because of the security it offers
against attack. If a snake large
enough to rob the eggs or attack
the sitting fantail were to make the
attempt, either the branch would
break or the reptile hit the
ground. Most of our bush birds
display little intelligence in
selecting nesting places, and offer
Adam’s vanquisher every induce-
ment to develop its arboreal
habits. Redheads build a gigan-
tic structure of dried grass and
straw large enough to contain
several apartments, and therein
perhaps a dozen pairs will engage
in share-farming. But this nest
affords a joyous razzle for the
first carpet- or diamond-snake that
happens along, and after it has
polished off the banquet it takes
possession of the boarding-house
to sleep off the effect.
“Ragar”: The sandpaper-tree, which is
found among the islands and about Papua, is used by
the natives for smoothing off their spears and ai-rows,
gods and carvings, and for cleaning themselves of
anything that does not easily come away with wash-
ing. The tree grows to about 20ft. high; the leaves
are about 4in. long by 3in. across; the backs are
rough and very hard. The natives soak the leaves
in water till the softer green part rots away; the hard
frame is then dried in the sun, after which it is
ready for use, and makes an A 1 substitute for glass-
paper. I have used it for removing inkstains from
the hands, smoothing woodwork, and as an eraser.
I’ve seen a native with a handful of these green
leaves scrubbing his black hide while standing in a
pool on the reef. He explained that- he was getting
ready to “go Tong church, cos missionairly ’e come.”
“Coringa”: I have come to the conclu-
sion that there are “wet” and “dry” areas for bottle-
trees as well as for bottled joy. I’ve downed
hundreds of the vegetables while scrub-felling in
the Burnett (Q.), from saplings to ancients up to
Bft. through, and, although I’ve waded through
their pith—sometimes with a genuine “dry” area
thirst up, too —I never found a drop of free water
to run from any of them. On such occasions, chew-
ing the sappy, pithy stuff, miscaliei) timber, did
relieve a parched throat, though. It is nBt uncom-
mon in the Burnett scrubs to find great round holes
in the ground, about 2ft. deep, where the boles have
rotted out. I’ve seen “bottles” in all stages of
decomposition there, too. After death the abundant
sap in the boles ferments with the heat of the sum,;
and anyone who wants a second sniff of a “bottle”
in this stage isn’t particular about his brand of
perfume.
“Bung”: Can any Abo. tell us whether or
not interbreeding amongst birds does result in
deterioration of the species? “Te Whare” (B.
26/8/’2O) is inclined to believe it does. On the
same page “T.H.M.” weighs out the information
that King Island has been plentifully stocked with
English pheasants, all the ’Offspring of four imported
birds. Anyhow, in the next breeding season, after
young birds have left home, how do they distinguish
brothers and sisters from others in the tribe? And
if they do not, what prevents constant interbreeding?
“South Coast” : The black snake is a good
climber. I’ve caught him twice treed at from 6ft.
to 12ft. from the ground; but I have, never seen a
Monaro (N.S.W.) tiger-snake up aloft. However,
the capacity of this brown-striped and most aggres-
sive serpent is now proved, Sidney Jacksoit having
lately photographed a tiger some distance up a tree.
The diamond- and carpet-snakes, of course, are
largely arboreal in habit, and snooze on the branches
for days at a stretch —with one eye open, however,
in view of a possible ’possum, squirrel or bird.
* » * «
“Jimsey”: The abos. on the Balonne (Q.)
had a burial custom that meant a lot of hard work.
They dug an exceptionally deep grave, sometimes
12 feet, and buried the corpse head downwards.
The explanation they gave me was that a debil-
debil went.in to the dead body and then tried to
come back to the tribe. When the corpse was buried
head downwards, the spirit naturally took the same
direction, and the more it tried to get out the
further away it got. They confessed it was a nasty
trick to play, but assured me that the debil-debil
was no gentleman.
* * * *
“C.J.P.”: I advise “Gadgett” (B. 5/8./’2O)
to try spotted gum ( Eucalyptus maculata) for axe-
handles—split wood; not sawn. Scores are in use
in Queensland: they are almost exclusively used by
the State Forest Service employees. Small hammer
and chisel-handles of yellow-wood ( Flindersia oxley-
ana) give good results.
* * * *
“Winkers”: Can any of your readers pre-
scribe for Dobbin with a greasy heel?’' Having
tried several amateur prescriptions, together with
remedies given by horse-quacks, and all having
failed, Dobbin has been sentenced to the rubbish-
dump ; but probably some Abo. readers will take
up his case. If cured he should work a long time
yet for his oats.
“Stannum”: In the granite belt of
Southern Queensland our orchards are open to late
October frosts. If we miss them we are right;
if not our stone fruit goes. A smoke-screen would
save the tree every time. But how is the smoke
made heavy enough to rest among the trees on
a cold, calm night ? I have seen it done on battle-
ships, and during the war on land ; but what chemi-
cal is it that is added to the fires?
“Zanthus”: E. E. Pescott, of the Vic.
Department of Agriculture, has in his office exhibit A
of the tenacity and vigor of the priekly-pear. C.
French, jun., and Brittlebank, of the same Depart-
ment, picked it up near Altona Bay—a fruit which
had fallen on the ground, and which was sending
out on one side roots and on the other a nice
young shoot, both direct from the skin, and not
from any seed, ihis specimen has been kept in a
•fry and dusty Government office for 18 months, and
is still alive; in fact, it has grown a little.
* * * *
“Dud”: “Forester” (B. 26/8/’2O) has
evidently not explored the Dandenong Ranges (Vic.),
or he would have found that the blackwood- flourishes
there under the queer conditions mentioned by him
as well as it does in Tasmania. There is a vegetable
of this species alongside my dugout, the seed of
which germinated in the top of a tree-fern. The
tree is now quite sft. in diameter at the base and
easily 100 ft. in height.
“Vista”: At Sabai, Badu and one or two
other islands in Torres Strait, the natives, after a
successful turtle hunt, bring back as many as 30 of
the big fellows. As soon as the boats are anchored,
the turtles are passed over the side, and swum ashore
in charge of a couple of willing and hungry nigs
who swim out to meet the kaikai. The turtles are
placed in yards, where they remain till wanted.
These yards are built below high-water mark while
the tide is out, and are made of mangrove saplings
driven in closely side-by-side. The islanders are not
over-fond of work, so the yards are riot always made
strong enough to keep the insects in. Some time ago
there was a big feast coming off at Badu. Some 15
turtles were herded in the yard awaiting the next
day, when they would bo eaten. During the night
they all escaped and the feast was off. The general
thing is to drag the turtles ashore, turn them on
their backs on the sand well above high-water mark,
and leave the unfortunate brutes, belly up to the
sun, till such time as they are required by the chef.
1 have seen turtles kept like this for five days.
“YDI”: “Jimsey” (B. 2G/8/’2O) says
“the dingo will not inter-breed, not even with the
domesticated hound.” Then how account for the
huge crossbreds found in far western N. S. Wales?
Out Broken Hill way my .44 Winchester killed an
enormous brute which 1 caught mauling a nine-
moliths-old bull calf it had pulled down single-
handed. It was an undoubted cross, the dingo
characteristics being very: pronounced. Thirty years
ago the station kept a pack of stag-hounds. Some
“went bush,” mated with the dingoes, and the result-
ant cross has been far larger and more destructive
than the dinkum pest.
* • * •
“Jim Carew”: “Tubbo” (B. 2/9/’2O) asks
for record times' for skinning a warm-dead sheep.
I don’t put this up as a record, but it is the fastest
I have ever seen. Last June three of us indepen-
dently timed Don Crisp, of Rock Flat, near Cooma
(N.S.W.), and he did the job in lmin. 34sec., com-
mencing at the head. The woolly was a big, full-
mouthed wether and a tough proposition.
* * * *
“Coringa” : I quite agree with “0.5.” (B.
19/8/’2O) that “Snowy” Baldwin had a lot to learn
from some buckjumpers. He covered up many
failings, however, by his clever acting, and often
persuaded an audience in the towns that a toss was
something else. I saw him riding once in Baldwin
and Knight's show at Appletree Creek, Childers
(Q.). Riding bareback, he was neatly thrown by
one of the ponies. He fell under the rope, at the
feet of the audience. Instantly he was standing to
attention. “Gentlemen,” he said, “getting off a
bucking horse at the right moment is harder than
OUT OF AGONY.
SHORTUN : “ Just then a 'Un bullet bored a
’ole through me mate, an ’ 'e dropped
dead right alongside me.”
LONGUN: "B ored stiff, most likely.”
sitting ’em: I hopped off that time too soon.” But
“Snowy” was badly shaken, and turning to his rid-
ing mates said, “Who’ll buy my next ride?” One
of his mates took it on, and no one blamed “Snowy”
for dodging it after seeing the flea-bitten grey spurn
the rider across the ring three times during his
spinning-jenny performance.
THE RAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Without a break the rain comes down;
The clouds upon the housetops rest;
Gloom gnaws its fingers at the town,
And life is but an. empty jest.”
—“Kodak” (B. 12I8I’20).
Dissenting voice! So soon, so soon !
Oh, why repress this Springtime rain,
That all this scented afternoon
Has spilled its torrents on the plain t
I grumble not. It brings to me'
Sweet rest no toiler dare have ta’en.
Each hour I thank the gods to see
True showers kiss the, West again.
The gilded streets of Sydney town
May teem with folk who fret and scold;
But, ah! the West’s gay spangled gowft
Oi daisies white and daisies gold,
And daisies blue whose clustered blooms
Their fragrance scatter far and near,
And mingle with the fresh perfumes
That make the Outback atmosphere!
See ridge and hill are fresh and gay^
Brown streamlets splash and play between;
The gidya round their slopes convey
Contentment in a denser green.
The rivers hiss like boiling tears.
And Drought his wraith now mooches by,
A victim to the silver spears
That pelt him from a raining sky.
Still falls the rain with splashing din;
Each cloud spills out with eager zest;
Its merry crackle on the tin
Sweet music is to. all the West.
Illusive queen of priceless worth,
I pluck thy garlands from the plain,
And thank thee for a thankful earth —
Thrice welcome to the West again.
QUEENSLAND.
WESTERNER.


.
m
The illustration depicts part of the
back wheel of H. A. Parsons’ 5 H.P.
“ Indian Scout ” upon which he
recently established a remarkable
world’s road record by covering
l, 14£ miles in 24 hours, including
11 hours of night riding. Can you
realise what this meant to the tyre
on the driving wheel ? The machine
weighed about 170 lbs, the rider 150
lbs—two-thirds of the 320 lbs being
borne by the back tyre. One can
hardly conceive that rubber and
fabric 5/Bths of an inch thick could
possibly stand up to the terrific
pounding and tearing strain of pro-
pelling this weight at an average
speed of nearly 50 miles per hour
for 24 consecutive hours (the maxi-
mum on good stretches was about 68
m. ) with so little sign of wear.
An inspection of the cover shewn —
it’s from an unretouched photograph
—conveys a fair idea of the slight
wearing effect on
D
TYR
after travelling 1,1U 1 2 miles at express
speed over good, bad and indifferent
roads. The front cover could be sold
as new, if washed. The tyres used
in this great ride were standard
covers and tubes, just the same as
any motorist can obtain, in fact the
“Indian” Agent selected them from
his stock. There is no doubt that
the Dunlop “ Railroad ” Cover is the
finest wearing proposition on the
Australasian market. In every direc-
tion, on Cars, Motor Cycles, and
Bicycles it has won a reputation and
popularity for Value, Long Service
and Economy. It is a Cover that
YOU can depend on. All Agents
can supply in Railroad or Grooved.
★ * ★
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES
AND N.Z.


Tke
Purest
Spirit
irvthe
World.
L Fife's schnap? 61 - )
0
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA-
US
1
STI
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
COLDS'
COUCHS
rywrtaa
Of»m
CROUP
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
10
m
Cl
1
the dreariness of things as are the people
in the boqks. This quality made the popu-
larity and the leisure for the true work.
-f n n Veronica” struck a note of rebellion,
slightly overstrained and solemn, as too de-
liberately struck notes of rebellion are apt
to be. The opening half of “Kipps” was a
sheer delight; the'squalid semi-idiocy of the
draper’s counter-jumper is as exactly and
pathetically written as if the man were whis-
pering it in your ear as he shuffled weak-
mindedly by your side. Nothing could be
better. By contrast, the second half, after
the central event of Kipps’s sudden inheri-
tance, is again solemn and portentous; the
toadying secondary characters are over-
written —too desperately significant of a not
inevitable attitude of the world to money
alone—and bringing further evidence ad
nauseam to the truth that it is a good thing
to write of the manners and people that
you know. Sundry other books, unequal,
hitting self-evident nails too accurately on
the head, overloaded with meedless purpose,
came, all betraying want of a width of vision
rather than faults in equipment. And then,
the nails and the hammer and the solemn
rebellions all thrown away, “Tono-Bungay”
came.
When the historian of Edwardian and
Georgian letters comes to Fiction, he will
put “Tono-Bungay” in a high place, perhaps
in the highest. ‘The book is practically flaw-
less. Its plot and subject are most interest-
ing ; its characters are ordinary, possible
people lifted convincingly to the level of
mental and physical adventures; its centre
figure is an exact type of modern business-
pirate, almost pathetic in his truth to
nature;_ and not on one page does the
book fail of your admiration and absorbed
interest. That is a description of a pretty-
good novel, I know; but “Tono-Bungay” is
more than that. It is a vibrant record of
five sections of the English social system of
the Edward-Georgian period, all singly and
interdependently accurate. The narrator,
the nephew of the inventor and owner of
the patent medicine, is the son of the house-
keeper of the lady of the manor; that gives
the servants’ hall view, which is one. He
is sent as assistant to a. struggling baker
and later to his uncle, a struggling chemist
near London; that gives the small trades-
men’s angle, which is two. On the tide of
Tono-Bungay, his chemist-uncle’s slightly
harmful tonic, he enters the business-life of
London, and marries at that level; which is
three. Tono-Bungay lifts them all into the
new-rich “captains of industry” class, which
is four. And he falls in love with the
daughter of his mother’s old mistress, who
reciprocates; which is the aristocracy from
the inside and the fifth of Wells’s pictures.
The novel being the presentment of society in
its several aspects, and “Tono-Bungay” run-
ning the gamut of English society in telling,
beautifully-balanced English and faultless
characterisation, I submit that Wells is a
great novelist.
Later “The New Machiavelli” dealt as
magically with London political life —which
is only one section. The book has the same
skill and power as “Tono-Bungay,” but not,
obviously, the same range. “Mr. Britling
Sees it Through” is a faithful, most-moving
picture of the higher middle-class household
hit badly by the death of its heir at the
Front; but that, too, is only one section
and atmosphere. There is a personal note
in “Mr. Britling” which lifts it often to the
level of great beauty of expression. “The
Soul of a Bishop” is again confined in its
area of skilful activity. All the other books
are, as it were, footnotes to “Tono-Bungay”;
in the same manner, his sociological pro-
phecies, his socialism and Fabianism, his
many vigorous Wellsisms are all footnotes to
Wells’s wondrous gift of getting the passers-
by in their entirety upon his paper.
HILARY LOFTING.
Style or Story?
The closer one regards the novel of to-day
the more one is impressed by the decline or
absence of form and what is called the “per-
fection of technique.” Wyndham Lewis.
Clemence Dane, James Joyce and D. H.
Lawrence, from the latest row of “moderns,”
either ignore technique or fail to understand
it at all. Wells has never paid attention to
the subject. His method is entirely discursive
and his prose is cumbrous and slangy, with
bright patches. Henry James dictated to a
stenographer. Bennett writes in geometrical
sequences: he ignores the niceties of tech-
nique. Balzac and Stendhal seldom bothered.
Dostoievsky was notorious. Meredith, sharing
with Flaubert a hatred of the commonplace,
tossed words about in an intellectual passion
for brilliance: every page is sprinkled with
paradox and every sentence runs up the
verbal keyboard in brilliant crescendo. Steven-
son created a delicate and whimsical mosaic
from the prose of the authors he imitated.
Hardy has followed the architectural form
and builds his novels to scale, though never
falling into a formula. George Moore, the Gel-
tic Casanova —always his own hero—chants
bis peccadilloes to the starry music of self-
esteem. Joseph Conrad carries on the tra-
dition of form (plots, subplots, reactions and
revelations) and moves among the difficulties
of his technique with amazing dexterity.
Frank Swinnerton and Sheila Kaye-Smith
inherited well-ordered minds. They approach
the novel as a cabinet-maker approaches car-
pentry. Compton Mackenzie, Hugh Walpole
and Alec Waugh cultivate self-expression at
the expense of form. Of the rest, John Gals-
worthy, standing serene and unperturbed
amid the fluctuating tendencies of his genera-
tion, adheres to traditional technicalities. His
style is distinguished by its clarity and quiet-
ness, with here and there a brilliant phrase
thrown out suddenly to call attention to it-
self. As Pater and Ruskin made no ex-
cursion into fiction, we are not concerned with
the tonal effects of their rich orchestration.
The dry-sherry wit of Samuel Butler in “The
Way of All Flesh,” and the sly charm lurk-
ing in the mannered prose of Max Beerbohm’s
"Zuleika Dobson,” where phrases chuckle
and pirouette like the notes of a Chopin
mazurka, are unique in modern English
fiction.
But greatest of all technicians was Gustav
Flaubert. To him aesthetic creation was
moral effort; and his every sentence is a
rigorous sacrifice of pleasure to duty. The
technical perfection of his style is his out-
standing merit. In this Turgeniev is only
shoulder high. Flaubert strove to master a
style as rhythmic as verse, as precise as the
language of science, with undulations and
modulations like those of a violoncello: a
style which would enter an idea like the stab
of a stiletto. Nothing was written in the
first flow of spontaneous vivacity. Yet con-
sidered as a collection of portraits, im-
pressions, descriptions, his works possess an
undeniable homogeneity—the marvellous in-
ventions of precise hallucinations. The ob-
session of technique tortured him and killed
him. lie lived as a literary monk, mocking
the vast flood of human stupidity in a
mingled agony of unconscious loathing and
moroseness. “Madame Bovary,” the history
of a provincial adultress. a creature of
ornamental futilities aspiring after second-
hand ideals, is a masterpiece of naturalistic
romance, of realism and lyric beauty in
equilibrium. “Salambo” is a daring attempt
to reconstruct the civilisation of Carthage.
It is a pastiche, combining the art of Turner
in vivid coloring with the descriptive
accuracy of a text-book. For ten years Flau-
bert dragged Bouvard and Pecuchet by the
hair up the rickety stairs of terrified syntax ;
but he died before he reached the top. The
result is an anaemic Swift daubed over with
bad Voltaire. It is realism without con-
viction : a sad miracle of intellectual abund-
ance, the tragic outcome of a life of mis-
guided self-immolation.
Guy de Maupassant wrote under Flau-
bert’s guidance for seven years before he was
allowed to publish. Though he retains a high
place among short-story writers, he often lost
sight of the main issues of his art in the
elaborate mechanism of his technique.
Tcliekov and the more impeccable Turgeniev
relied chiefly on the simplicity of design and
balance of composition. Of the greater Con-
tinental writers whose works are influencing
present-day novelists, none gave first place
to form or technique. Neither Tolstoi nor
Artzibashef cared a rap. Romain Rolland
convinced his followers that no form was re-
quired at all. They followed life, which has
no form. And the whole general tendency
of the present day is against the more ex-
acting and cramping conceptions of artistic
perfections towards the laxer and more
spacious forms. Just as the swaddling-cloth
gives place to the greater possibilities of a
petticoat.
SILENUS.
Theosophy and Rzehehski
Ilieosophy may well be “busy just now
asking for a non-theosopliic explanation of
Samuel Itzehehski” (B. 2/9/’2O), for. it
alone of modern philosophies attempts' to
explain such cases on lines which make any
appeal to the thinker. With its re-statement,
in our day, of the law of re-incarnation, it
solves not only the problem of genius and
infant precocity—such as that of this Polish
chess-player—but many others, as, for
instance, animal instinct, congenital idiocy,
superhuman endowment. As The Bulletin
suggests, the body of this boy may have been
“selected by the soul of a recently-deceased
chess-player for a new existence.” But a
chess genius now living need not necessarily
have been “recently-deceased,” or need he
have been a “chess-player.” Such a view
rather narrows the majestic conception of
re-incarnation. More probably the normal
course has been followed; in which case the
entity known to us as Samuel Itzehehski
was last incarnate about 1500 years ago, and
is one who has over a period of perhaps
several lives specialised in the development
of certain ’ powers.—such as concentration,
sequential thought, keen memory, compre-
hension, swift decision—which possessed in
any degree of perfection would combine to
make a chess-player of very superior ability.
Such development need not have been at-
tained at playing chess—any activity which
educated the above faculties would have the
same result. And once acquired these powers
are always available, so that later, when the
young Pole turns his' attention to more
serious things, we may expect to hear of him
as a mathematical genius.
Of course to the average man the validity
of the explanation is vitiated by his non-
acceptance of re-incarnation as a fact—it is
“too fantastic” to be taken seriously. But,
as The Bulletin points out, Itzehckski’s
“deplorable accomplishment. .. .has to be
accounted for,” and there is no better solu-
tion of the problem offered by either science
or religion. The one, making the senses
final, denies even that man has the power
to exist after the abandonment of the body
—though signs are not wanting to show
that this attitude is being modified—much
less to take a new one when he desires it
and continue a course of development already
embarked upon. The other, also narrow-
ing its purview to this one life, vaguely
attributes the possession of abnormal ability
in any one individual to the “inscrutable
will of God,” who endowed the individual
at birth with such ability. It is only to thd
“Western” mind, with its blatantly material-
istic outlook, that the idea of man’s under-
going repeated re-births, in order to
reach perfection, seems strange. To mil-
lions in “the East” the idea is not only
acceptable, but is so much regarded as one
of the fundamental facts of life that the
whole thought and activity are influenced
by it. And many Westerns even w 7 ho have
studied Oriental literature or been brought
into contact with Eastern modes of thought
have embraced the idea. Schopenhauer was
a case in point, and his philosophy bears
evidence of his belief.
Re-incarnation may therefore be accepted,
if not as a fact, at least as a working hypo-
thesis, to account for Rzehehski, Mozart,
Newton, Napoleon, Plato, Jesus and other
men of superior attainment. We may go
further, and, applying it to ourselves, since
the laws which enabled these men to develop
their ability or character hold good no less
for us, gain encouragement to persevere in
the cultivation of those qualities we admire.
The dream of perfection has been and always
will be most alluring ; as Shaw says, “The
man who does not wish to be born again,
and born better, is fit only to represent the
City of London in Parliament, or perhaps
the University of Oxford.”
W. R. B.
A Satchel of Books
Sestrina, by A. Safroni-Middleton
(Methuen), is au alleged “romance of the
South Seas” in which characters, plot,
setting and style are alike preposterous. An
indefensible waste of paper.
Salt, by Charles G. Nox-ris (Constable and
Co., via the Australasian Publishing Co.).
An honest and capable American novel —
the kind of book the casual reader takes up
with indifference and lays down with reluct-
ance. The influence of H. G. Wells is
plainly traceable, but the story is skilfully
told and the portraiture is faithful: the
sketch of the hero’s brother, whose one
recreation is whisky, is masteidy. The
author gives an unfavorable impression of
life in a Yankee university.
Sir Harry, by Archibald Marshall (Col-
lins). Another of Marshall’s smooth stories
of English country life; also another of
everybody’s stories of the heroic young man
who goes to the war and doesn’t come back
—which seemed, for the moment, to be as
popular an ending as wedding-bells. To
ask an Australian reviewer to believe that
any young man could be brought up, as Sir
Harry was, to know nothing at all of the
world outside his own small group of keepers
is to put a large strain upon his credulity;
but there is good character-study in the
romance, and inevitably (Marshall being the
author) an attractive gallei’y of English
country landscapes.
Timber Wolves, by Bei-nard Cronin
(Hodder and Stoughton). A rattling good
yarn of timber-thieving in North-West Tas.,
which the average reader will want to gulp
at a sitting. Cronin knows the country
where his picturesque characters toil, so the
scene-painting shows a keen appreciation
of natural effects and provides a backgi-ound
of color for the hefty deeds of Pete Diamond
and the rest. The author has made Dia-
mond a figure of high interest, and the final
tragedy which finishes the battler, after the
loss of his taking donah, is a bit of ingenious
story-telling.
The Inky Way
11. W. Stewart, of Launceston, is collect-
ing his Bulletin and other prose and verse,
and will presently,offer a bookful to Austral-
asian readers under the title “Rhymes and
Ramblings.” Alex. McCubbin and Co.. Mel-
bourne, are the publishers, and the limited
edition is priced at 7s. 6d.
_ From an Australian journalist who is
giving N’York a chance to make him a
millionaire:—•
I don’t think any longer that America is the home
of terse journalism. Most of the stories and
articles I meet are too wearisome for me to read
through. Indeed, one editor told me that unless
a writer suplied at least three columns it would
be presumed that he didn’t know his subject.
Quantity, not quality, he admitted, was what the
American public wanted. With all the cry about
shortage, American papers are using more “news-
print” than they did before the war. However, it
isn’t all “news” they carry. It is said that- when
the tax on excess profits is repealed the consump-
tion will decrease considerably, as at present all
the big manufacturers and shops are spending money
in advertising hugely to hide their profits, and inci-
dentally to establish themselves in new markets with
money which they would have to share with the
State if they didn’t spend it in this way.
“8.j.”: (London) At 64 Douglas Sladen
has just committed matrimony for the second
time, the lady. Miss Christian Duthie, being
under 30. The first Mrs Sladen was an
Australian, Miss Margaret Muirhead. Sladen
achieved a lot of publicity for the performance
by calling in a woman-parson to speak a
piece after the registrar had done his job.
Most of the papers announced that he had
been actually married by a slie-parson and
that it was the first time anything of the
sort had occurred in England ; but this over-
stated the case.
“Chev”: The old-established Academy
ffounded 1869) has been incorporated with
a ngw ninepenny weekly, edited bv Tord
Alfred Douglas, and called Plain English.
I am curious to see whether this Plain
English ninepenny London weekly will
sport a Red Page or a Wild Cat. Glasgow,
by the way, has its Bulletin, which has
not only collared the name but also the
lettering.
“Biologist”: What is literary merit? Is
there some literary standard by which one
may measure with accuracy, as critics
assume? There isn’t. Literary or artistic
merit of any kind is a near approach in
form or sound or color to what pleases a
certain grade of perceptions. Yet as in-
dividual perceptions greatly vary, and are
frequently evolving, so will the appeal to
them vary. The young and the crude delight
in strong contrasts, primary colors, melo-
drama and blatant sound —ail horrors to an
evolved perception. What critics of a past
age regarded as fine writing we now pass as
piffle; and the future may have a like esti-
mate of present stylists. So far the most
enduring form in prose or verse is unaided
Simplicity; the changing fashion in style does
not affect common words reproducing com-
mon feelings. For the commoner the word,
and the more frequent its use, the greater its
force when justly used. As a result the
greater the student the less truly literary he
is likely to be, for his recorded thoughts
range in a vast vocabulary—words with
vital meaning only to the few. It is doubt-
ful whether if Robert Burns and Henry Law-
son had achieved a University training they
would have been even notable.


You can. Satisfy
your preference for
TYRES
If your dealer does not
stock Michelins, write to
us and we will g'ive you
the name of one who does.
You need not accept other makes in place of
your Michelins. For the small trouble of asking us
a question you can assure regular supplies of your
favorite tyres.
©
Tut
vJL
* J 4
ft
The tyres that cost least per mile to run,
because of their Quality.
The tyres that are REAL rubber non-skids
because of their Design.
The tyres that help to reduce car upkeep
cost because of their Resiliency.
MICHE-LIN
Universal Tread Covers
and
Red Rubber
/ Ring \
Tubes


-Si
<.-4
IiST
-4s
The Man
Who Grasps a
RABBIT
gains some money.
Prices a<re not what
they were. But
they are still good.
For Top Market Values consign RABBIT,
FOX, KANGAROO and other skins:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.,
Sydney or Brisbane.
Salesmen only.
'4
OYCES
are the condensed result of
the scientific manipulation of
very choice materials. Once
you have tried them you
will agree that there is
nothing else in the biscuit
world quite so good.
Only the best sugar and flour and
the choicest butter are used for
“Joyce” Biscuits, which may now
be obtained in half-pound air-tight
Paper packets as-well as 21b. tins.
Your Grocer Sells Them.
'ftczrie/zes'
0
A
D
o
Motor
for Solo
SM^
%
&sa
| Bicycles
& Sidecar
You can take any hill or
the roughest road with ease
and comfort when ridii’ £ a
B.S.A. Motor Bicycle or
combination. The special
advantages and efficiency
of the
B.S.A. COUNTERSHAFT
THREE-SPEED GEAR
make this machine one of the
most economical models on the
road. The comfort and reliability
of the B.S.A. Motor Bicycle under
all conditions have gained univer-
sal popularity and unequalled
praise for its services.
All B.S.A. Parts are
guaranteed interchangeable.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE SHOWING
MACHINES IN ACTUAL COLOURS.
D. Y. RENNIE
{representing D.S.A. Co., Ltd.),
Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
BENNETT 8 WOOD LTD., Pitt Street, Sydney,
ausitraijan
mm
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
[A-i
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
J3H AS,
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust -Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES- Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS*
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
. Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O'Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Buildings.
A PERFECT
SHAVE.
It's British.
' T
Christopher Johnson & Co.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Their Famous Full Hollow-Ground
Metropolitan Razor.
PRICE 10/0,
Of all Stores.
If unable to procure send Postal Note to their Agents,
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, 50 York Street, SYDNEY.
328 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
Shirts i
are cut on generous lines; they fit, are comfortable
ana have all the niceties of workmanship and style
that characterise good shirts.
Sold by all clothing stores.
Have you tried Thistle Pyjamas ?
Alexander Stewart & Sons Ltd.
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY
A.S. 39
as
SL
%
Ha#
sg><? lliir brand
on oacli Jhirt.
w
w
U/>
1/
m
<>
lillll
■*l I' i
MMM
4
ft
To the large army of sufferers afflicted with
Rheumatism, Gout, Calculosis, Migraine, Eczema,
Obesity and Acid Dyspepsia.
Take courage, for URODONAL dissolves uric acid as easily as
warm water dissolves sugar, and eliminates it without your being
aware of it.
Therefore, cast aside sticks and crutches, and straighten yourself as in the days
of youth and health. URODONAL will even permit you to eat meat and other
favorite dishes to your heart’s content. Salicylate, colc-hicum and iodides (by
means of which temporary relief is procured at the cost of disastrous after-effects)
are entirely superseded by URODONAL. Thanks to URODONAL, the obese
regain their normal proportions, the weary take on a new lease of life, and the
worn society woman regains and retains a clear and healthy complexion, through
the blood-purifying properties of this preparation. URODONAL is the great
discovery of the century, and is a boon to all; it is the secret of perpetual youth,
the means of salvation for the thousands of victims of uricsema.
PREPARED BY ETABUISSEMENTS CHATEUAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 10/9.
Can be obtained from all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australasia, or from
CHATEU AIN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 352 KENT STREET, SYDNEY, from
whom also can be obtained Free Booklet containing Medical Opinions. [1
S. A. Parliament is running through a
Bill to excuse the estate of Peter Waite from
the State death-duties. Waite is by no means
dead. But he has given his suburban Urrbrae
home, 134 acres, on the hillside slopes above
Adelaide, to the University, half for a public
park and half for agricultural experiments.
'* Bh it go about 6000 shares in Elder, Smith
and Co. as an endowment—some £70,000
besides the land. As the donor retains a life
interest in all these things, they would pay
succession duty at his death, and it would
fall on the University. In the circumstances he
has asked that this charge should be waived,
and Government and Opposition agree that
it is a fair thing.
Gardening is not only the hobby of the
daughter of a well-known public man in
Melbourne; it is a living. Beginning at
the Burnley State Horticultural Gardens,
she learned scientific methods, and now at-
tends gardens professionally, as a nurse
does her “cases.” She is not above tackling
the-hard part of the job herself, but, of course,
knows the knack of lightening her task by
doing it the right way. In much healthier
surroundings she can earn more than a
hospital-nurse, and, besides, she gets a heap
of joy from the attitude some people adopt
towards her. “Especially a few who think
of themselves as Highbrows,” she adds.
The curious case of the man who called
W. M. Hughes a something-unprintable in
the Adelaide Town Hall is still being con-
sidered by the S. Aus. courts. The magis-
trate before whom he was charged with
using indecent language dismissed the case,
following a judgment of Judge Buchanan that
a public billiard-room vwas not a “public
place” within the meaning of the Act. A
majority of the Supreme Court has, however,
decided that a Town Hall is sufficiently
public, when a political meeting is on, to
warrant the quashing of the dismissal, and
the case has been remitted to the magistrate
for further consideration of the access which
the piibl|c had at the time.
“Norbell”: These American film-fakirs
shouldn’t try to “produce” the English
language. In the screen diversion of “Dr.
Jekyll and Mr. Hyde,” B. L. Stevenson’s
well of English undefiled is turned brackish
with “announcements” like “I haven’t seen
him in years,” “I’m through with you,” and
other remarks with a nasal twang. When
the million-dollar super-star art-special
picturisation of “Hamlet” arrives I expect
that the Dane, instead of observing that "the
play’s the thing wherein I’ll catch the con-
science of the King.” will exclaim, in ornate
lettering, “The rough stuff these hot-air guys
is gonner pull to-night will sure get Claudey’s
goat!”
The smell of Labor-selection ballots
mingles with the scents of Spring. One
Samuel Rocke. M.L.A. for South Fremantle,
was beaten in the pre-selection by a Trades
Hall .secretary, and his feelings got the bet-
ter of him and overflowed into print. In his
anguish Sam asserts (1) that he wasn’t
allowed in the returning-officer’s den until
the boxes and packages of ballot-papers were
opened ; (2) that one box was received and
accepted 53 minutes after the poll was timed
to close, and (3) that one union polled 40
per cent, more than its voting strength. He
also complains that it is useless for him to
appeal to his district council, for the boss
of the district council was- the returning-
officer at the ballot. He is going to appeal
to the electors instead.
The low back may carry penalties, apart
from pulmonary complaint, if you take it
into public places. A big, fair, handsome
dame in the stalls the other night, showing a
vast array of beautiful white bladebone.
received a stinging blow that caused her to
utter a whoop. She lobked round indignantly
for the assailant, but could not find his eye.
The source of trouble was a well-sucked ju-
jube that had been blown (or thrown) from
the gallery. What is worse, the sweet had
stuck and was riding on the lady’s left
shoulder like a gaudy wen when the lights
went up. After a lot of tittering, a kind soul
behind informed the victim, and the latter,
crimson with mental suffering, reached for
the unwelcome object, and gave it a tug.
Her companion gave it another. But the
jujube was there to stay, and the lady,
folding her wrap about her, fled.
“D.E.”: I was on the third paragraph of
a leader that must have cut Lenin to the
heart and made Trotsky feel the hook-nosed
ruffian he is when a visitor walked in, un-
invited and unannounced. He was a timber-
getter, burly and broke, and he wanted a
pound for his fare back to the bush. He
smelt of beer and didn’t suggest repayment;
his manner, in fact, was dictatorial and a
trifle contemptuous, and it made me wild.
“I never met you before,” I said in cutting
accents, “and I never want to see you again.
You’ve smashed your cheque—l suppose it
was a big one—at the pubs and the races,
and you come along to a perfect stranger and
ask him for a quid. Why didn’t you go to
the people wlio’ve got your money? What
have you ever done for me that I should
give you a quid?” “Good Gawd,” replied
the man from Redgum, “don’t I read vour
blanky PAPER!”
“Stargazer”: He was a prominent member
of a big grand opera co. and a Dago who
prided himself on his exquisite English. One
day a foreign musician, settled in Melbourne,
met him in Collins-street raging furiously
in an unknown tongue. “Better try Italian,”
said the musician. Then the singer exploded
in his own language. Wnat he had been
saying to various people was: “Can you
direfct me to a clothier’s where English is
spoken?” He had lived in Australia for
weeks without discovering that English was
the Australian language! The co.. of which
he was a star, was asked to do “Faust” in
English, and the result was a hotch-potch
that bewildered the audiences. The manage-
ment expostulated, explaining that the people
were fogged by the noises that passed for
English among the performers. Then the
tenor exploded in Italian: “Of course, the
audience does not comprehend. We can’ give
the opera in Italian, French or in English
but Australian —ah, no, no, no


What
Users Say
About
PABCO
PAINT.
Copy of letter
received from
New South Wales
Government Rail-
wa y s regarding
Pabco Paint.
“With reference
to Pabco Paint
No. 128 being
tested by this De-
partment, I have
to advise that it
has now been
under observation
for 8 months, and
it is found to be
very elastic, works
toughly, covers
well, and dries
hard. After 8
months' test, it
bears a good ap-
pearance.
Yours faithfully,
RUBT. KENDALI
Enginecr-in-Chief .’
Extract from
letter received
from Common-
wealth Naval
Dockyard regard-
ing Pabco Paint:
“I have to in-
form you that a
piece of plate was
coated with this
paint on the 2nd
October last, and
placed in the Gal-
vanising Shop at
the back of the
Pickling Tank.
On examination
after 59 days’ ex-
pos u r e to the
hydr o chi o ric
fumes, it shows no
signs of corrosion,
nor is there any
trace of pitting or
loss of color, and
it has a hard gloss
surface.
Yours faithfully,
H. K. SALTER
General Manager,”
TRADE
MARK
PABCO
PRODUCTS
Paraffine Companies Inc.
MANUFACTURERS
SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A.
What
Users Say
About
PABCO
PAINT.
Qop.v of letter
received from
New South Wales
Government
Tramways re-
garding Pab c o
Paint:
“With reyard to
th e in q it ir y of
your Mr. Hiscox,
I hey to advise
you that we have
used “P ah c o”
Paint, and given
it a severe test,
which shows it
to he a paint of
very good quality.
Yours faithfully,
O. R. COKDERY,
Engineer for
Tramways .”
Copy of letter
received from
Messrs. Tooth and
Co., Ltd., Brewers,
Sydney:
“Replying t o
your enquiry re-
garding the ser-
vice and satisfac-
tion given hy the
500 gallons of
PABCO 128 Red
Paint used on our
iron roofs.
We are glad to
say that wc are
entirely satisfied
with results after
two years’ experi-
ence.
It is a good
paint to use and
saved ns from
having to re-roof
one building.
PABCO Paint
note covers and
preserves the
ichole of the iron
roofs at our
Works.
Yours faithfully,
{Sgd.)
A. WALKER,
Supt. Building
and Construction,
TOOTH d CO.,
LTD”
Pabco-the Paint that
fights rust and rot
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.


H°LEPRo°F
Ho-fIER/ '
HOLEPROOF HOSE
have been bought by
millions of people for
many gears. That fact
alone is proof enough
of e xtraordinary
value .
Have you ever thought
what YOU mag be mis-
sing bg going without this
brand ?
Here is practicallg . .
ABSOLUTE FREEDOM
from darning and gou
have the choice of pure
silk and fine lisle.
If your
dealer is
unable to
supply you,
write us.
Indents and
Wholesale thru
>' A L T E R
CAT H R O
eTY. LTD.
.0 Yopit St.
SYDNEY.
'J&
iTs
Give The Skin
New Life
WHEN you first
observe your com-
plexion beginning to lose
its youthful freshness
don’t neglect it. A little
care each day will keep
you youthful for years.
Try this simple formula—
"A little CREME ELCAYA
rubbed gently into the skin;
then if you need color, a very
little Elcaya rouge spread care-
fully over the cheeks before
the cream is quite dry; and
after that the film of faeft
powder over all.'*
CREME
ELCAYA
is a delightful, non-greasy, dis-
appearing toilet cream that
makes the skin like velvet.
Price 2/0 per pot
Large size, 5/-
Elcaya Face Powder, 4/6-
Elcaya Cold Cream, 4/0-
All gacu Stores and Chemists,
or direct from
Druggists’ Sundries, Ltd.,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Cr£me Eicaya
THE GRESHAM,
Brisbane’s Leading Hotel.
A
\
L
JOHNSONS
CARBOm
REMOVER
imiMi
motorcars
MOrrOR CYCLES
harweensnes
SPARKPLUGS
»ATCNT AMUCD WO*
Free your Car of
Carbon the Easy
Way—through
the Exhaust
Carbon Deposits can be
removed easily andsafe-
ly by using Johnson’s
Carbon Remover. No need
to lay up your motor car when you follow this
satisfactory method. After one application your
car will run as it did the first 500 miles, and you
will secure maximum power and speed from the
minimum amount of fuel.
raias
Hi
is a harmless liquid to be poured or squirted
into the cylinders. Contains no acids ana does
not affect lubrication or interfere with the oil 'in
the crank case. It is widely used.
Johnson’s Carbon Remover cures of engine
troubles. It increases power, improves accelera-
tion, quiets your motor, saves your batteries,
lessens your repair bills and reduces your con-
sumption of petrol and oil.
No mechanical experience is necessary to use
Johnson’s Carbon Remover. You, yourself, can
obtain satisfactory results in five minutes. See
your dealer today Get a tin of Johnson’s Car-
bon Remover and learn for yourself just how
easy the Easy Way is.
S. C. Johnson & Son
379 Kent Street, Sydney, N.SW.
And Racine, Wisconsin, U.S.A.
Success in politics is not for the sensitive.
In 1896 Harry Daglish and Tom Bent stood
for South Melbourne. Both lost their de-
posits. Eight years later they were both
Premiers—Thomas of Victoria and Henry of
Westralia.
Jabez Wright, the collarless politician who
used to represent Broken Hill, is nowadays
comfortably dug in at Bondi, and is retiring
from his undertaking business. Possibly Jabe
reckons that when the foolishness of the
Barrier reds has run its course, there will
be nothing left to bury, except the industry.
In the Anglican Synod of S. Aus. a small
sensation was caused, when the shortage of
clergymen was under discussion, by the
grumble of a canon that St. Peter’s College
has not been the training-ground for “orders”
that it should have been, and is therefore
“a failure in that respect.” There were
cries of “Hush!” and “No.” Whatever St.
Peter’s may have been started as, it has for
the past half-century been just a public
school, without any idea at all of serving as
a stepping-stone to the pulpit. In the course
of the discussion it was mentioned that of
the 80 Anglican clergy in S. Aus. 38 are
Englishmen. But a church which consis-
tently sends overseas when its big reward,
the bishopric of Adelaide, is open, can hardly
expect to attract Australian youth.
“Tix”: Australia is still breeding the
type that won the war. Norman Osman
helps his dad boundary-ride a section of the
S.A.-Q. border rabbit-proof fence. He takes
liiti hack and pack-horse, swag, rations, etc.,
and sets out to look for and repair holes
along the 30-mile section, which is a three
days’ trip there and back, lie hobbles out,
cooks his meals, camps; in the morning
hunts hia horses, packs up, then on again—
all this on his lonesome. During the drought
he had a dry night each way, and had to
draw water from a deep well at the end
of the lonely section. In his spare time he
delights to get amongst the musterers on
a near-by cattle run, and can cut-out with
the best. He is barely 11. Yes, I know he
should be at school; but the nearest is about
100 miles away, and mother teaches him and
his little brothers and sisters the three R’s.
Basil Lathrop Murray, who is the party
of the other part to the agreement between
the Commonwealth and the managing-
director of Westralian Farmers, Ltd.,
under which the Commonwealth is to advance
up to £550,000 to provide for the bulk hand-
ling of wheat in W.A., is a grandson of
Robert Lathrop Murray, who came to the
Speck about a century ago. Grandad
edited a newspaper in Hobart Town for a
while, and had some fierce rows with Lieut.-
Governor Arthur. His son Robert Ivynaston
Murray became Commissioner of Railways
in Victoria. A brother of Basil’s used to be
a very big man in the electrical business in
Britain. Basil himself went near becoming
a member of the Federal Parliament, but his
absorption in the co-operative business saved
him from that fate, and he left the Swan seat
to Prowse.
“Camelero” goes looking for Pharaohs:—
So Professor Flinders Petrie, the well-known
Egyptologist, has found the mummy of a girl 8000
years old! Diggers who kept an eye on the
Senussi will he glad to hear of his success, for he
was popular with the Cameliers when they were a(
Mersa Matruh. I first met the Prof, at the pile of
stones which was all that remained of the summer
residence of Antony and Cleopatra. Later on some
of the boys joined us, and we put in a solid hour
removing debris from what had evidently been a
cellar. As we toiled Petrie related incidents con-
nected with the life of Antony’s missus, and we
turned in that evening convinced that Cleopatra was
not the giddy flapper novelists would have us believe.
The Diggers really made some important discoveries
on the sites of ancient Egyptian and Palestine towns.*
At Materiah a trench-digging party came across a
tomb of a Pharaoh and his wife. Next day the
place was crowded with Gyppo troops and old fellows
from the Cairo Museum. Arid near Gaza the
Cameliers unearthed hundreds of sealed earthen jars
within which were the skeletons of infants who, it is
supposed, had been sacrificed to the goddess Dagon.
Recollections of an old pressman:—
There are men who thrive on a regimen of alcohol
that would kill the average moderate drinker in
a month. An English statesman of the last genera-
tion was never at his top unless he had polished
off a quart of champagne* and Blank, an Australian
Labor Minister, was built the same way. When in
office he used to stow away a large bottle before
breakfast. Finding it necessary to economise he
substituted for the gold-top half a bottle of whisky
(sometimes brandy) colored with milk. And he
never showed a trace of his potations in either speech
or gait. He was an uncommonly clear-headed and
industrious Minister, and his constituents, the women
especially, regarded him as a most abstemious man.
I wonder if that rollicking blade, Dash, is still
remembered in Park-lane. Desiring to get rid of
him a Liberal Government sent him to London as
A.-G., and besought him to cultivate the society of
eminent goldbugs, being in want of a loan. Animated
by the best intentions Dash collected three financiers
of tremendous tonnage and fed them expensively at
the Cecil, after which he invited them to while away
an hour or two at the opera. But it was the
Empire that he conducted them to, not Covent Gar-
den, and they hadn’t been there long when Dash
stole away from his horrified guests (to his aston-
ishment they had indignantly refused to mingle with
the painted ladies in the promenade) and disappeared
in the company of a brisk young tart. He didn’t
return ; and his sojourn in London was unaccountably
short. But there are those who should remember
him.
An Australian Premier, now, dead, was an idolator
of Napoleon. Visiting London, he and his wife
were invited to dinner by Lady Somebody, who hap-
pened to be a granddaughter of Sir Hudson Lowe,
Bonaparte’s gaoler at St. Helena. It was the missus
who prevailed upon him to accept the invitation, but
she felt sorry for herself when her lord, a simple but
irascible soul, upbraided his hostess, in the hearing
of all the company, for her grandfather’s monstrous
treatment of the Emperor. Fortunately Lady Some-
body was a “sport.”
Hyphen was one of illegitimate twins. He was
bi ought up by the father, a wealthy old reprobate,
and became a “gentleman”; the other boy took his
mother’s name (his father disowned him) and grew
up idle and ignorant. When Hyphen became Premier
his twin-brother and living image—the likeness was
startling—-got a term of imprisonment for theft.
And as the poor devil shuffled out of the dock the
Crown Prosecutor whispered to counsel for the
defence: “There but for the grace of God goes
Hyphen.”


STO RAGE
BATTERY
TRADE MARK. REGI
There are Leaders in
Both Men and Things.
It is an uncommon fact that 80 per cent, of American
manufacturers of motor-cars have the Willard Storage
Battery as standard equipment. This is a great deal
of credit to give to the maker of a vital part in a
car, the ignition, starting and lighting being entirely
dependent upon the storage battery. It is more vital to
the user when he is overseas, thousands of miles away
from the factory.
Willard Batteries with Threaded Rubber Insulation do
not start to use up their energy until they are in the
hands of the driver. This added long life can be
explained at any Willard Storage Service Station or
Willard Booklet, and should be read by every motor-
driver. It means a saving to motor-drivers the world
over. Willard Threaded Rubber Insulation, which
insulates the positive from the negative plate, is the
exclusive patent of Willard Storage Battery Co.
STORAGE
BATTERY
.Willard Threaded Rubber Insulation
0


PIMPLES OV
FACE AND BODY
Caused Scratching, Pre-
ventedSleep.CuticuraHeals.
*' I broke out in pimples all over my
face and body. They appeared in
blotches and came to a head and fes-
tered. They became that irritable it
made me scratch them till they bledi
and prevented me from sleeping.
“ I was then told by a friend to use
Cuticura Soap and Ointment so I sent
for a free sample. I then bought more
Cuticura Soap and Ointment and after
using for three months I was com-
pletely healed after suffering for two
years.” (Signed) R. M. McKenzie,
115 Melville St., Hobart, Tasmania.
Often distressing skin troubles may
be prevented by using Cuticura Soap
and Ointment for all toilet purposes.
, Soap to cleanse. Ointment to heal.
For sample each address : "R. Towns &
N. S. W. Sold everywhere.
Soap shaves without mug.
Soap, 1/-; Ointment, 1/- & 2/-
DRAWS
OUT
THE POISONS
which cause Barcoo Rot,
Bad Legs, Sore Feet,
Carbuncles, Boils,
Poisoned Wounds,
Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, and
those arising from Insect
Bites.
The Proprietors of
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT
hare an absolute confidence in its un-
surpassed merits. They know it to be a
safe and perfect cure for all skin and
blood ailments; and the vast number of
testimonials received prove this.
GRASSHOPPER positively
draws the poisons which produce
these maladies out of the system.
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifier,
and for those who suffer from headaches, the
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do not be persuaded
to purchase any substitute preparations.
Sold by all Drug Stores and Chemists
throughout the Commonwealth.
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
600 Shaves
in One Blade
with the Only Heel &
Toe Motion Stropper.
Post Free, 30/=
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Send To-dat to
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDNEY
And COMMERCE BUILDIN , MELBOURNE,
GRIP GRIP
TYRE REPAIR OUTFIT.
Every Car Should Carry One.
Large. Medium. Special Ford. Motor Cycle.
7/6 5/- A/- 3/-
Makes a permanent repair.
Reduces your tyre bill because vulcanising is un-
necessary.
Made specially for the Australian climate by
Australians.
Sold Everywhere.
Manufactured by
STANDARD MOTOR SUPPLIES,
17 Burns Street, Sydney.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend tlfem. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist,Southampton, England
AMERICA'S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
'Fairbanks -Morse
“GTeed Grinder
Ground Feed Makes Better Stock
to
G
nto
YOU KNOW the value of
ground feeds—you know
you can save feed by grind-
ing your grain—that your hogs
and steers will fatten faster —
that your horses can do more
work—that your cows will
give more milk.
A “G” Feed Grinder not only puts
the grain in the best condition for
feeding, but should save you more
than its original cost the first year,
it is especially adapted for grinding
small grains. Mixed grains or ear corn
are ground fine in one operation.
For Grinding All Grains
With each grinder are furnished five
m hmu m plates for grinding dry grain or shelled
com very fine, and medium plates for grinding new or damp grain
and earn com medium fine. The grinders and feed are always
under instant control.
The “G” Grinder may be equipped with an all-steel sacking
elevator or wagon box elevator on order. It is most successfully
driven by a “Z” engine.
DANGAR, GEDYE & COMPANY, Ltd., Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & COMPANY, Adelaide.
JAMES BARTRAM & SONS, Ltd., Melbourne.
VVINCHCOMBE, CARSON, Ltd., Brisbane.
MALLOCH BROTHERS, Perth.
DONALD & SONS, Ltd.,
Masterton, N.Z.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, Ltd.,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Fairbanks, Morse tr(S
INCORPORATED
MANUFACTURERS
Foreign Dept.,
NEW YORK.
U. S. A.
LONDON, ENGLAND BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA
THE PALACE HOTEL
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
More Miles on Plume
The speedometer is one of the most interesting
features of your car. The miles you have travelled
that day—the distance for the season—the. pace you
are making at the moment —are things that you re-
quire to know in order to learn if your car is at its
best. By comparison you will realize how much
greater mileage you obtain from Plume Benzine.
Plume gives that extra mileage that makes such a
difference to the spirit bill at the end of the month.
Fill up with Plume next time, and check your
mileage. You will be pleased at the increased
mileage and consequent reduction of your running
expenses.
Don’t say Benzine —ask for
Plume.
■ /
Write our nearest Branch for free
booklet, ' <c Che Care of Your Car”
Vacuum Oil Company
Pty. Ltd.
»n
\
88880 m
s«»wn Trip
I
r.
£ 'l
-ra?
*
“D.E.”: Gratefully I remember poor
“Bullant” Mclntyre’s description of the Pri-
minister—“a wordspinner without guts!”
Peechelba (Vic.), the place where Morgan
the bushranger was .shot, has earned a new
title to fame. The Peechelba licensing dis-
trict of the Wangaratta division is the one-
area in Vic. where no local option poll will
be taken. It is dry already.
“Sixenate”: A charge of manslaughter was
being heard in a Sydney court a few days
ago. A witness said that the 'slaught-erect
man had tried to poke a woman’s eyes out
with a broom-handle, had rushed at her with
a meat-chopper, and had put down a barrage
of pictures which he tore from the walls.
“And what did you do?” deponent was
asked. “It looked to me.” he replied, “that
they were just having an ordinary family
quarrel, so I left them to fight it out.”
Prom a spoonful of earth at the entrance
to . Gladstone (Q.) harbor: —
Don't want to push my barrow into the Glad-
stone-Rockhampton squabble, but listen to this. Sit-
ting on our verandah we have for the last hour
been watching H.M.A.S. Sydney going in at about
half-speed-. She is just disappearing from view
around the corner near the meatworks. Time, 2.30;
tide, abnormally low. The Sydney is going to pick
up the Gov.-General, who is training down from
Rockhampton: it wasn’t considered advisable to
touch at any of their three alleged ports.
In 3913 Jack Curtin, then a mere youth,
gave W. A. Watt the hardest go he has had
for the Balaclava seat in the House of Reps.
Nowadays, Curtin is the best writer and
about the best speaker the Westralian Labor
party has got. He could easily have bad
a nomination for a State constituency, but
he nearly killed himself by conducting a
strenuous campaign for Perth at the Fed-
eral elections and editing his paper, the
Westralian Worker, at the same time,
Jack’s idea of editing the paper being to
write nearly everything himself. So by '
doctor’s orders he has eschewed politics for
the present and reduced his literary output
from 20 columns to 15 columns a week. In
journalism it is* always the willing horse
that is overworked.
That blessed word “nationalisation” has
not only hypnotised Lazzarini, M.H.R.; it
has got him down and bitten him. Lazzarini
would fain pay off the mortgage on a palace
out of the money inade by nationalising the
ash-keg at the back gate. He would
Relieve the taxpayer of the heavy burden that will
accrue from paying interest on future loans.
Provide credits to. carry on Commonwealth and
State undertakings.
Provide cash credits for rural industries in order
to release primary producers from the grip of
financial institutions.
Consolidate the national debt and put it on a
sound footing.
Make proper financial provision for the nation, to
honor its obligUtions in full to returned soldiers.
All this, is" to be done by “the nationalisation
of banking.” And it calls for these remarks:
The national debt would unquestionably look better
“consolidated.” This could be done by reducing the
6 p.c. debt to 3) p.c. (only there would be a sheol
of a row), or raising the 31 p.c. debt to 6 p.c.
(which would cause loud applause, mixed with some
dissent), and making it ail fall due on the same day
(which would indeed be,a day).
Banking business in Australia is about three- '
fourths nationalised already through State and Com-
monwealth savings banks, the Commonwealth Bank,
the State Banks of Vic., S. Aus., Westralia, etc., and
the Note Issue Branch of the Commonwealth Treasury.
The note-issue business, in fact, has been wholiy
nationalised for five years. Despite all this the
extraordinary profits that Lazzarini suggests haven’t
been found.
These huge nationalised institutions have done a
lot to “release primary producers from the grip of
financial institutions,” or would have done so only
they are financial institutions themselves, and if
they were medical or spiritual instead they would
be of no use.
The member for Werriwa didn’t, of course,
hint at how his wonders were to be done; he
merely intimated that perpetual motion and
the extraction of gold in large quantities from
paving-stone.s are good things, and that the
Banking Bill should contain “Comprehensive
clauses” supplied by somebody else to bring
them about.
“Harrison O.” finds disillusionment:—
It has frequently been alleged that Australians
do not know how to “make carnival,” that the spirit
is not in them, and that their attempts to emulate
the people of the European Continent on occasions
of national rejoicing is a sorry business. As a stay-
at-home Australian I took such statements on trust;
in future I will greet them with scorn, for I have
seen Paris doing its conscientious best to celebrate
the anniversary of the Fall of the Bastille. For
24 hours my pub manager had been promising me
a tremendous treat. Up to then, he assured me, I
had seen Paris only in its workaday mood, but to-
morrow the carnival spirit would be let loose and
giddiness would reign supreme. I spent practically
the whole of the next day and night in the streets,
parks and cafes, determined, if possible, to be
thrilled. I was not diverted worth 2d. The city
itself, made beautiful by wealth, art and exception-
ally good taste, was bathed in sunshine, but heavy
solemnity brooded over it. The fact that there was
a lockout of musicians, so that oily a few of the
more expensive cafes sported orchestras, doubtless
helped to deepen the gloom; nevertheless I gathered
from my pub manager and others that the Parisians
themselves thought they were having a perfect devil
of a time. On the boulevards there was dancing,
of a painfully decorous brand, to an accompaniment
of barrel-organs or portable pianos; in the parks
the burghers mostly sat about reading the papers;
in the cafSs they did the same, except when a very
occasional orchestra played the Marseillaise, where-
upon they stood up and sang with all the fervor of a
jaded serio-chronic who has been cruelly insulted
by being put On the bill “first after the interval.”
The Louvre, Luxembourg and other sight-seeing
places were closed and the population seemed at a
loose end. At night they mostly sat about the
Champs Elysees, watching the motor-cars of the rich ;
some continued to dance in a perfunctory manner;
others gathered in the Place de la Concorde, where
they remained in solemn silence watching the search- -
lights on the Eiffel Tower and intermittent fire-
works. Most of them seemed to think that sooner
or later something would happen—but it didn’t. I
have seen more spontaneous gaiety at Manly—and
even St. Kilda in four, hours than I observed in Paris
in 18. When I returned to my hotel after midnight
the manager produced wine and demanded of me,
with the light of a great triumph in his eves, had
it not been a Not having the heart to
undeceive him, I confessed that it had.


/ r;-'
< y
m
r:
SCi*io»
ssSS>v
**itiGM
r i^^k^SK^v-Zci.
V. t „ «
■y-.&'.0-C
SS-5
k M!
*»*■
£ ; s*Oe 1 Ws:£
sfe
•’ -jr>*
ISOM
;•. XV A®
,*^: r *3 :&Z «. t
•\ *#' vT ? 4 ~^\T>W
V :
K'MS
XT— ?4L»
«? •>
£
' ttS
#»?
m
.
Q
the
When you buy Leggo’s
T orn at o Sauce you
know that you are get-
ting a product which is
absolutely pure and
superior in every way.
It is processed in
hygienic kitchens from
'thevery pick of
Tomatoes grown in the famous Bendigo Valley—the finest
Tomatoes produced—and made piquant and appetising
the addition of crystal sugar and high-grade spices.
T y
lomaro
auce
comes to your table fresh and pure, and with an original and delightful flavor that
makes soups, meat or fish doubly enjoyable.
Moreover, Leggo’s Tomato Sauce is a health food. It retains all the nourishing,
digestion-aiding, body-building values foi; which prime Tomatoes are so widely and
justly famed.
Leggo's Tomato Sauce Creates Appetite and Promotes Health .
SERVE IT AT YOUR TABLE DAILY.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL GROCERS.
WHOLESALE FROM WHOLESALE MERCHANTS.
Manufacturers— H. M. LEGGO <& CO. LTD., Bendigo (EL Melbourne.
ESTABLISHED 1881.
■
FT
9
T
#
•oN**°J
Lvift.
r Q*C
Champion” Patent Wheel
Earth Scoops
Do the Most Work with Least
Effort and at the Lowest Cost.
The following opinion of Mr. J. H. Beer, Contractor,
Borung, is but one of the many references we have
received in support of the “Champion” Patent Wheel
Earth Scoops:—
“I have been contracting for 30 years, and have
used almost every scoop that ha.s been introduced,
but the ‘Champion’ Patent Pressed Bowl W heel
Earth Scoops, with Shafts, are certainly far ahead
of anything I have previously seen.
“The repairs required are practically nothing.
“They have proved a great saving with my horses.
I find that with the ‘Champion’ Patent Shafts there
is no oscillation, or weight coming on the horses’
necks, while with the pole, which I used previously,
the- horses always being considerably injured
about their necks and legs.
“I advise contractors to use them for dam-sinking,
channel-making, and other similar work.”
Anything we might add,could not be more convincing
than this testimony.
We shall be pleased to forward illustrated pamphlets
and full particulars on request.
The Perfection in Silt Scoops
has been reached by the manufacturers of the “Aldred
Silt Scoop.” Freedom from delicate parts, perfection in
work, and the economic cost of operation have made it
the favorite scoop for the man on the land.
THE ALDRED
SILT SCOOP
can be worked singly or in pairs. When worked in pairs
—see illustration above —'-it does double the work in the
same time that would be taken in operating one scoop.
The scoop fills quickly, and, immediately it is filled,
automatically stops cutting and glides in easily, thus
avoiding useless work on the horses or bullocks, and
removes the risk of cutting into the banks, when being
hauled out. Distinct advantages over open-top scoops.
Write for pamphlets and fuller particulars.
British-Australian Machinery Co. Ltd.
Union House, 247 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Collins House,
MELBOURNE.
Union Bank Chambers,
BRISBANE.


A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Necklet, 15ct.
Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’
15ct. Gold Links,
set double-cut Dia-
mond, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Circle Brooch,
15ct. Gold,
£6/10/-
A. Saun(3ers’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£25.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring,
18ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£25.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£25.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’a
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£25.
Saunders’ Fine Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cl"ster Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £lO.
At Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster Bracelet,
15ct. Gold, £l2/10/-
♦ r
tb
sa ?<
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold double-cut Dia-
mond Set Expanding Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled
lever movement, £2O. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Gold-filled Hunting Keyless
Elgin or Waltham Levers, 10-year case,
£5, £3/10/-. 20-year case, £7/10/-.
25-year case, £B/10/-, £lO. Solid Gold,
£l2/10/-; £l5, £2O, £25, £3O.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Solid Gold Patent Expand-
ing Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement,
compensation balance, £lO. 15ct. Gold, £l2/10/-
Guatanteed
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street
(Opposite Railway Station), Sydney.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring,
18ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£75.
A. Saunders’
Emerald and
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£25.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£25.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £l5.
- - =“
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £7/10/-
<zz
A. Saunders’ fine Diamond Bar Brooch, 15ct
Gold, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £7/10/-
mim
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Necklet, 15ct.
Gold, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Circle Brooch,
15ct. Gold,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bracelet, 15ct.
Gold, £55. Larger Diamonds, £75.
■gfii
*k-
i^Aj,
<So (g;i.vj
? <?*-ss
.
*&
i£w:\
■r.
ri
■ r :
A
/
Be a Better Cook!
If you are still cooking in the old fashioned
way give it up!—be a Better Cook from to-
day onwards. Cook better scones and better
cakes, tastier trifles and more delicious
blanc-manges. It’s so simple !
Instead of using dairy milk, cook with
Nestle’s Milk ; you will be delightfully sur-
prised at the results and so will Hubby and
the children.
The “ Milky Way ” Book Teaches You Free !
Write to Nestle’s, 347 Kent Street, Sydney, for
Free Copy of Valuable Book containing over 100
recipes for Better Cooking with
NIBB
NESTLES
(Made in Australia)
Condensed
MILK
1 condensed '
[MILiK'H
NEST bran®
in AUST*A*- ,A
f 4 SWISS CONDEN
BR' S ®
ho®h


ABBEY
SHOES!
Men who realise that a smart and cor-
rectly addressed appearance is an asset
should wear Abbey Shoes.
They are made in all the latest models,
and their long service makes them econo-
mical as well as distinctive. Being made
in half and full sizes and in three fittings
—narrow, medium and wide —we are
able to guarantee a perfect fit.
We illustrate a choice Tan Willow Calf
BaL Price 40/- and 55/-
Patent Bals., Dull Calf Legs, 55/-
In full sizes and medium and wide fittings.
Postage Extra. Write for Our Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
Re EDMUND REDDISH, deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery Division
of the High Court of Justice dated the 12th day
Cf July 1920 made in the Matter of the Estate of
Edmund Reddish deceased Simpson, v. Reddish 1920.
R. 1009. Whereby the following Inquiries were
directed.
1. An Inquiry whether the Testator’s Son Raymond
Branstone Reddish (in the will called Raymond Red-
dish) is living or dead and if dead whether he
survived the Testator Edmund Reddish and if he
survived the Testatoc. who are his legal personal
representatives.
2. An Inquiry whether Raymond Branstone
Reddish left any issue living at the time of the
death of the said Testator and if he left any such
issue who are the legal personal representatives of the
said Raymond Branstone ifeldish.
Notice is hereby given that any person or persons
claiming to be entitled under the said Inquiries are
personally or by their Solicitors on or before the
20th of December 1920 to come in and prove their
claims at the Chambers of Mr. Justice Eve and Mr.
Justice Peterson at the Royal Courts of Justice
Strand London England or in default thereof they
will be peremptorily' excluded from the benefit of
the said Order. Thursday the 23rd of December
1920 at 12.30 in the afternoon at the said Chambers
Room No. 246 is appointed for hearing and adjudi-
cating upon the claims.
Dated this 31st day of July, 1920.
PRETOR W. CHANDLER,
Master.
CUNLIEFE, BLAKE and MOSSMAN,
48 Chancery Lane, London, W.C.2,
Agents for
Alderson, Son and Dust,
Solicitors,
Sheffield, England.
NOTE.—The above-named Raymond Branstone
Reddish left England and' went to Australia 2nd
January, 1910, and was last heard of at Woonona,
New South Wales, in February, 1912.
THE NEXT OF KIN AND THE HEIR AT
I LAW OF TERESA HAMILL formerly of Belfast
in Ireland deceased. Pursuant to an Order of the
Chancery Division of the High Court of Justice in
Ireland made in the matter of the Estate of Teresa
Hamill late of Trench House Belfast in the County
of Antrim Spinster Deceased and in a cause Hamill
and Others v. His Majesty’s Attorney-General for Ire-
land and others (1919 No. 338) the persons claiming
to be the next of Kin and Heir at Law respectively
of the said Teresa Hamill deceased living at the date
of her death on the 3rd day of September 1918 or
the persons claiming to be now entitled to the shares
of such next of Kin and Heir at Law respectively as
are now dead and more especially Michael Thomas
Hamill who it is stated died in' New Orle@ns in the
year 1867 and his issue George Hamill or if dead
his Children or Grandchildren Thomas Hamill or his
Children or Grandchildren Margaret Masterson for-
merly Hamill and her Children or Grandchildren
Robert Hanna and his Children and Samuel Hanna
and his Children are on or before the 10th day of
January 1921 by their Solicitors to enter and prove
their claims at the Chambers of the Right Honorable
Mr. Justice Powell Four Courts Inns Quay Dublin
Ireland or in default thereof they will be per-
emptorily excluded from the benefit of the said Order.
Wednesday the 12th day of January, 1921 at 11
o'clock in the forenoon at the said Chambers is
appointed for hearing and adjudicating on the
Claims. Dated the 15th day of July 1920. THOS.
W. ELLERKER, Chief Clerk. Frank Kerr, Solicitor,
79 Dame Street, Dublin, and 3 Wellington Place,
Belfast. __ _
Public Notice.
THE TOXGKAH HARBOUR TIN
DREDGING CO. N.L.
NOTICE OF DIVIDEND.
-VTOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a
J 3 Dividend (the 38th) of 10 per cent., or
Two Shillings (2/-) per Share, amounting
to £15,000. has been declared payable 22nd
October, 1920. and for this purpose the
Share Register will be closed from the loth
to the 22nd of October inclusive.
By Order of the Board.
H. J. WISE, Manager.
Dated at Hobart this Bth day of Septem-
ber, 1920.
aiiiii>eiiieHl>.
Harry ltickards Tivoli Theatre* Lid.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McIXIOSH.
-J- IVOII THEATRE, SYDNEY.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
M ATI NEKS WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.30.
ROBERT COURTNEIDGE’S ENGLISH COMEDY
COMPANY in
THE MAN FROM TORONTO.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
-j-IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents Miss LEE WHITE,
in London’s Latest Musical Success,
THE GIRL FOR THE BOY.
“IT’S FRENCH—IT’S NOT RUDE.”
Prices as usual.
HI! It MA.I E STY’S, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON L'l D.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
J C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW ENGLISH COMEDY
COMPANY in ,
YES, UNCLE.
A Musical Comedy in two acts.
Plans at Paling’s.
kTt E It I<* N T H E A I It E. > Y KXKi
Lessees: J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE MUSICAL COMEDY SUPREME,
IRENE.
Plans at Paling's,
PA JL AC B THEAT It E, SYDNEY.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
The Great English Naval Drama,
THE LUCK OF THE NAVY.
Producer: GREGAN MgMAHON.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
The playhouse, Sydney,
Castlereagh Street, near Fire Station.
Lessees: J. &N. TAIT. Direction, GERALD GRIP PIN.
Every Evening at 8. Matinee Saturday at 2.30.
' GERALD GRIFFIN, the famous Irish
Singing-actor, in
THE ROSE OF KILL ARNE Y.
Plans at Nicholson’s. Popular Prices.
u
NI O N PICTURE TIIEAT It E »
THE PICK OF THE WORLD'S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EXPRESS,
tIAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS.
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
IT INC’S THEATRE. MEI.HO U It N IS.
tv. Lessees: BAILEY GRANT
Direction ,T. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8, JOHN D. O’HARA in
THREE WISE FOOLS. ,
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan s.
JC WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Revival of GILBERT & SULLIVAN OPERAS.
THE GONDOLIERS.
THEATRE ROYAL.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 25.
THE MARRIAQE OF KITTY.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN & JOHN FULLER, LTD.
Sole Direction ALLAN WILKIE.
LAST FOUR NIGHTS.
ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER-WATTS in
MACBETH.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, SEPT.
HAMLET.
Box Plan at the Pianola.
Amusements.
“|" H E BOSS C O C K I E,
DUE AT MELBOURNE OCTOBER 16.
“THE TANK’S FULL.”
M
A.IEBTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
'' COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CLARANE SEYMOUR in
THE IDOL DANCER.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
»m THEATRES. Jllll.ltOl KM',
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
TIIEDA BARA in
LA BELLE RUSSE,
and
OLIVE THOMAS in
THE GLORIOUS LADY.
Prices as usual.
THE
GLACIARIUH,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
E» UITANNIA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the .world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATIIE,
WORLD and SET.ZNICK.
Ross Rifles
Made in Canada.
We have been authorised by the
lioss Co.’s agents to sell a shipment
of 50 of their celebrated .303 Military
Match Rifles. These rifles differ from
any other; they have a straight pull
bolt action. It locks like a big 15in.
gun. The barrels are built better than
you know. .This rifle is ideal for any
game shooting, firing the ordinary .303
bullet. Weight, 81b.; length of barrel,
30 inches; adjustable x - ear and front
sights.
Price, £6/10/-
ORDER EARLY—THEY WILL
NOT BE WITH US LONG.
Gunsmiths and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
04
"S
Men of the Outback
“ Wish I was just learning to smoke. I used to try
any old Cigarette until I got CHAIRMAN, and now
I feel sore when I think of all the bonzer smokes
I've misled. All the boys on the Station are
smoking Chairman these days.”
CIftAftETTES >i
Renowned for their quality, purity and flavour. The CHAIRMAN
MEDIUM is a stronger Cigarette the " returned ” man’s favourite.
Every packet
of Chairman or
Chairman med-
ium contains 10
full weight
Cigarettes for
Bd. . . . . .
TOURNAMENT CIGARETTES
A “de luxe ” edition from the Chairman
Factory. Made from the finest straight-
cut Virginia leaf, and the very best
Cigarette procurable. You can’t buy better.
Obtainable from all leading Tobacconists.
T o u r n a ment
Cigarettes are
sold at. ...
£0 for 5/-
25 for 2/6
10 for 1/-
'•H. • '
K. J. LEA ]LTD., Chairman Factory, Mar cheater, and 41$ George St. SYDNEY
Jlicto Jiwt iQlo
Golf and Tennis Coats of
Connemara and Donegal
Hand-woven Irish Tweeds.
Leather Buttons.
Burberry Rainproofs.
Sporting Norfolks.
3iichari>3Simt
314 George Street
(near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
liii
For
Marking
Alllinen
TO ENSURE PROTECTION
AND INDIVIDUALITY . .
CASH'S WOVEN NAMES are in
World-wide favour, through Quality and
Utility. Any name is woven into a Fine
Cambric Tape in Fast Colour. Easily
sewn to any article or garment whatever
Fabric.
Be Sure, and Ask for Cash’s Names
Prices — 12doz. 4/6,6d0z. 3/3, 3doz. 2/3
Sold by All Best Drapers
Made in Australia by
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitc St., Richmond, Vic.
Write for Style Book
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 16/- per (lay, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 5/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all Particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
G
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia,


A
|
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
brand
[o/vc- T~nr^>
BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA—CoIIins House. Collins Street. Melbourne -
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street. Sydney - - .
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings. Creek Street, Brisbane
Phone Central 1995
Phone City 2677
Phone 2382
■<=^ZTcZ
C-A-C -
o-vo Hrzr
MOST WONDERFUL RESTORATIVE
FOR INFLUENZA, OVERWORK, WEAK STOMACH, ANAEMIA, ETC
A.B. WINE TONIC
MADE FROM BEEF, MALT, FINE OLD WINE, ETC.
HAS WONDERFUL RECUPERATIVE
AND SUSTAINING QUALITIES.
The delightful assimilation of the Malted
Ingredients feeds the Wasted Tissues and
builds up the System.
OBTAINABLE RETAIL
EVERYWHERE.
Chemists, Licensed Grocers,
Merchants and Most Hotels.
pleasant and
Exhilarating
A.B
;;
CIISTIREC®^
(Registered.)
A.B
ARNOLD BROS. (Sole Proprietors), 384-386 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
SWIFT & CO., LTD., Clarence Street, Sydney, Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
nvomTTT ® MeEACHERN, Brisbane Street, Launceston, Agents for Tasmania.
LTD., Bazaar Terrace, Perth, Agents for West Australia.
Extra freights, etc., necessitate Inland Towns and Interstate Traders to
charge a littie more than Melbourne Prices.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Yes Unele”
?’<W
i alace “The Luck of the Navy”
Playhouse ' “The Rose of liillarney”
„ IVOI t I “The Man from Toronto”
S OTT 8 Moving Pictures
Lnion Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's . .... “The Gondoliers”
iz OYA , L “The Marriage of Kitty”
king s “Three Wise Fools”
Princess's “Hamlet”
Tivoli ..... ' “The Girl for the Boy”
Hoyt s Db Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
* IEI ' BA Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciaiiium Dancing
«
“The Girl for the Boy,” staged at Mel-
bourne livoli last Saturday, appears to be an
English musical comedy borrowed from the
French and mutilated to permit of discordant
American intrusions. The first act deals with
a rigidly respectable civil servant whose
country cottage is the week-end resort of
a frisky artist and his retinue of models. A
bold heiress drops in casually from an
exploded motor-car, and reveals a sudden
passion for the owner of the premises, pro-
bably because he talks with much the same
American accent as herself. Also the mil-
lionaire father of the fair stranger comes
along to fetch her, and the young artist-
man’s best girl arrives with’ her father.
Hence complications which terminate in the
heiress’s capture of the strictly virtuous civil
servant, whilst his former fiancee declares
herself enamored of the irresponsible artist,
regardless of his bodyguard of girls. A
chauffeur and a parlor-maid are accessories
to the crime. These characters give a suffi-
ciently pleasing musical-comedy air to the
first half of the entertainment, wherein some
of the ditties are smartly written, and several
needlessly risky lines are counterbalanced by
witty ones. But after the interval the story
falls to pieees, and ragtime, tagtime, drag-
time words and music smite the unenrap-
tured ear. The festive board is spread with
tripe, so to speak.
* » * *
George Gee, as the artist friend, supplies
fu backbone to the British section of
the show ; and he is helped by Clarice Ilard-
wicke, Gouriet, Nodin and Audrey Worth,
the last a quiet little ingenue with a fetch-
mg little style. Arthur Styan and Maurice
Aoclin impart pomp and circumstance to the
_ two parents, and the rest of the performance,
apart from an irrelevant interpolation, falls
to an attractive chorus. Clay Smith and
Miss Lee White. It must be admitted that
Smith, as an English civil servant and the
lady a s his unprovoked adorer are out of
harmony with their associates in more
respects than their American tongue. Miss
Whites songs at the piano ask to be taken
seriously, whereas Ada Reeve,, of old, adroitlv
made a jest of such stuff as “The roses round
the door Make me love mother more.” Danc-
es is excluded from the equipment of both
nee White and her pianist, nor are they ver-
satile comedians.
But th e various
costumes of the
large and comely
lady amount to a
dress parade, her
unyielding smile
and thin, penetrat-
in g warble are
sweet considera-
tions, and herself
is magnetic, even
though she be
merely speaking in
American accents
the ragtime lines
of an awful poet
who rhymes “gem”
with “men” and
“fl a m e” with
“lane.”
The Sydney
Society of Artists’
show :—•
At the Education
Gallery Norman Lind-
say, dashing adven-
turer in all mediums,
is represented by
water-colors, by etch-
ings and by pen-draw-
ings of extraordinary
brilliance. In No. 20,
“Visitors to the Mar-
quis,” he shows a
pageant of joyous life.
“The Girl for the
Boy,” at Melbourne
Tivoli.
Clay Smith as the
public servant.
His pen has travelled with amazing lightness. All
his latest drawings and water-colors are radiant;
in his hunger for light he has even been
prepared to sacrifice something of strength. The
water-color strongest (in tone) is No. 19, “Italian
Love”; No. 22, “The Portico,” is an interesting
composition with strong notes of white. Elliott
(jt.u.ier hangs nine oils —and nothing for sale. The
pick is No. 88—a graceful tree at the edge of a blue
summer sea and two children playing in the shade.
“The Clearing” S is another attack on the cool pro-
blem of morning light. The sincere Hans Heysen
pleases with his luminous skies. Of his three water-
colors, No. 25, “The Willow Tree,” catches the eye
and holds it. That willow “composes” perfectly.
J. Muir Auld, in “Holiday,” offers plenty of green-
timber and dappled sunshine for 200 guineas. The
Gallery has taken a pleasant woodland thing of
feathery green trees, filtered sunshine and grass on
which two ghostly goats are browsing. Howard Ash-
ton makes a bid with a group of one large and
eight small oils. The color goes on with a courage-
ous hand. Elsewhere he has taken out his box of
pastels at bedtime. “Twilight” goes to the Gallery.
Minns’s “Corroboree” has more historic than artistic
interest. The legs of the abos. in line describe
triangles until the eye wearies. The artist’s fine
color sense is shown in No. 51 (“Killara Links”)
with the blue hills rolling away.
The interesting young man of the show is John
D. Moore, whose pictures have set his older col-
leagues arguing. Few can pass a daring thing with
a low horizon. It must be noticed. Moore else-
where hangs some reminiscences of his world-travel-
ling and war experience. “Telegraph Hill, San
Francisco,” was a pearly prize for someone at five
guineas. Norman Carter has a life-size portrait of
Vera Pearce in a gold ball-dress, which should confer-
immortality on her if the thing can be done with
paint. The lady in black of No. 112 seems to know
that the flesh looks right through the transparent
sleeves. Albert Collins hangs one group of three
oils. No. 113 catches the last gleam of day on a
distant hillside. With the paint Collins has mixed a
reverential hush. The hopeful sky of “Afternoon”
has set in a golden glare of guineas; but the brighter
Brick Kilns” still waits for a rich bricklayer. A
family portrait-group strongly and honestly painted
best represents Percy Leason. In his landscapes
he has painted rather too solidly. There is most
light in No. 100. Hardy Wilson’s masterly pencil-
drawings of those patient sitters, old houses and
trees, are always captivating. “The Great Apple-Oak
of Cobbitty” is a,lesson in the art of treating foli-
age. Of his decorative water-colors, No. 170, with its
tubs of sunlit hydrangea, goes to the Gallery. AVill
Ashton is most at home when he is most at sea.
No. 128, with rippling reflections, will delight any-
one who loves the water-front. There is a fine
quality of light in Nos. 129 and 135. The latter, a
hilltop view, shows good aerial perspective. Percy
Lindsay has captured his share of morning sunlight
in No. 147, “Spring Morn,” a thing of silvery light,
long, shadows and wood smoke. Leslie Wilkie, in
No. 148, “Study in Black and White,” offers a
complete flapper for 40 guineas. Florence Rodway
has two dimpled pastel children done with her
usual sympathy. Her portrait of Chief Justice Knox
is full of repose and dignity. Lionel Lindsay
provides more Spanish sunshine and mantillas.
His best is “Don Quixote” with the knight sil-
houetted on a hilltop against strong light. If.
Gallop has two glimpses of Autumn. No. 63, with
its interesting group of farm buildings and the
cool blue distance against the yellow hill, is the
better excursion in paint. R. Wakelin sees things
gloomily and in masses ; and R. de Mestre is his
fellow-theorist. J. Eldershaw in “Shadowed River”
shows willows too solidly green. David Barker has
sold “The Spit, Middle Harbor,” in tender greys
and blues. Hilda Rix Nicholas (Nos. 33 and 34)
observes peasant women with a humorous eye, and
preserves them dashingly in chalks. Florence
Mofflin’s fan fantasies melt in delicate color. Alfred
Clint pursues Nature in his own clear-cut manner.
There is something bleak about it. Mildred Lovett
is concerned at moderate prices with sails, docks,
boats and fish, and also puts in a sculptured head.
Grace Crowley presents “My Grandmother’s Dress”
with a pretty friend inside it. 11. Abbott offers
the wandering eye a rest with “Summer Pastures,”
and Louis McCubbin adds “Hayricks.”
Some more of Norman Lindsay’s irrepressible girls
dominate the otherwise quiet etching alcove.
Brother Lionel here makes his chief display. The
dry point of Henry Lawson is a striking example
of successful portraiture. “The Girls’ High School”
is a dignified relic of old Sydney, and “Old Barn,
Windsor,” is full of quiet charm. Lloyd Rees's
sombre rendering of “Scots Church” and “The
Unfinished Cathedral” (pen drawings) attract the
visiting Calvinist. Sid Long's etching, “House of
Lords, ’ glimmers greyly.; a more characteristic
thing is “Pan.” The Gallery has put its label on
“Pastoral,” which gets soberly back to Nature—a
delicate composition, of trees. Sydney Ure Smith
hangs a selection of decorous old buildings. David
Barker gets a triumphant effect within small com-
pass in “The Brickworks.” Herbert Rose offers some
Melbourne glimpses. That confident craftsman, H.
Van Raalte, hangs a big plate, “The Bridge, Fre-
mantle,” and two others. Fred Campbell is ad-
equately represented twice. Bernice Edwell is the
show’s best miniaturist with half a dozen examples.
Rhoda Wager hangs a case of desirable art jewellery,
and Wal Taylor’s ornamental book-bindings sanctify
the contents, whatever they may be.
* * *
Concerning “Macbeth” at Melbourne
Princess's this paper would e’en make up
for lost time by hastily remarking that be-
sides Allan Wilkie, Miss Hunter-Watts and
Vivian Edwards, there are others in the cast.
Jack Lennon (as Duncan), Vincent Scully
and-. Gus Neville, also Lorna Forbes (Lady
Macduff) and Fanny Wiseman (a witch),
are noticeably satisfactory expounders of the
text. Guy Hastings as Macduff, rattles off
his lines in too quick a monotone, but he
acts feelingly in his scene with Malcolm
(poorly played by Felix Bland) and puts
vigor into his old-fashioned fight with Mac-
beth. If Wilkie’s death were not ordained
it would be 10 to 1 against Macduff, whose
vigor evidently exceeds his experience in
broadsword combat. Fred Patey should be
mentioned as a capable exponent of the low-
comedy porter, and something ought to be
said about the diction of Robert Inman in
a Scottish chieftain character. On second
thoughts, it seems better not to say it. “Mac-
beth” will be followed by “Hamlet.”
** * *
No individual eftort' in "The Gondoliers”
at Melbourne Majesty’s stands out .con-
spicuously enough to get a special bouquet.
On the vocal side the most attractive is
Strella Wilson as Casilda. She uses her
strong voice agreeably, but never looks the
charmer responsible for the honey in Luiz’s
songs of love. On the other hand Patti
Russell (Gianetta) and Th,elma Carter
(Tessa) seem reasonable enough excuses for
a stop-work movement in the Gondoliers’
Union. The former, whose soprano is charm-
ingly effective, could possibly freshen up her
style without feeling tarty; still her demure-
ness is more fetching than the other’s affected
brightness of speech and behavior. Thelma
always shows a ladylike disposition, but her
dramatic work is growing stagey. James
Hay (Marco) is a splinter beside the beefy
of Frederick Hobbs. The physical
disparity is most noticeable when the pair
prance about as joint monarchs in the second
act, arid maybe Hay’s consciousness of the
contrast makes him somewhat colorless. De-
spite his bulk, Hobbs is on the best of terms
with his part and warbles his few lines
with more vivacity than usual. With her
white wig and matronly dignity, Ethel
Morrison is too comely a partner for
Walenn’s faded morsel of the Spanish aristo-
cracy. But Melbourne is already familiar
with Walenn’s Plaza-Toro, and all that can
be said is that the midget humorist is no less
generous with the “business” with which he
flavored the same part six years back. Villiers
Arnold does all that is required as Lqiz;
Ivavanagh is a ponderous Inquisitor, with
his expression in mourning; and the chorus
singing and dressing are handsome features.
** * *
Somerset Maugham’s “Penelope” com-
menced a week’s revival at Melbourne Royal
“Irene," at Sydney
Criterion.
Herbert Ramon as
J. P. Bowden, a
wealthy social-
climber.
on Saturday.
Marie Tempest had
Penelope’s Old job
o f outraging he r
hubby by her indif-
ference to his giddy
conduct, and she
did her part with
enthusias m.’
Graham Browne,
as Dr. O’Farrell,
was, generally, a
suave exponent of
light comedy, only
allowing a hint of
farce i n extrava-
gant gestures here
and there. The
other cat, Mr s.
Ferguson, fell to
Dorothy 'Hamilton,
who was a mod-e-
-rat e 1 y exciting
siren, almost extin-
guished towards
the end by a cart-
wheel hat. Daven-
port Barlow, the
doddering knut
who is never too
old for a flirtation
with ginger in it,
was capitally sug-
gested by Roger
Barry. Ashton
Jarry was also
better placed than
before as Professor
Goli g h 11 y, the
amiable old student who never allows
matics to make him old-fashioned. Doris
Dunam had long periods of rest as Mrs.
Golightly, and Armorel Kemp, Kate Towers,
Herbert Millard and Keppel Stephenson
were more than good enough for the other
small parts. “Pendlope” will be followed
next Saturday by “The Marriage of Kitty.’’
** * *
Two more Melbourne monologues:—
George Bell hangs a brilliant collection of por-
traits and landscapes at the Melbourne Athenaeum.
His biggest subject is “The Conversation,” very
much in the Rupert Bunny manner. A clever detail is
the faint gleam of a reflected sidelight on the gent.’s
polished shirt-front. “La Varsovienne,” a study of
a pretty woman in a smart gown and hat, is expertly
handled, but is not so attractive as “Lady in
Black.” Other fashionable models have their
best points presented in “The Blue Hat” and "A
Swedish Girl,” and there is a large man wearing
heavy brown clothes and a sallow complexion, said
to be “A Student of the Latin Quarter.” In land-
scape George Bell has many appealing qualities. His
uncommon “Lulworth Cove—Time of Drought,”
which has just been bought for the National Gal-
lery, is a fine piece of work. “Purbeck Quarries —
Dorset” reveals his ability to make a picture of an
unpromising subject, and he has another capital
Dorset scene with the creeping evening dimming the
outlines of things.
Everybody with a few guineas to spare will want
to annex one of Penleigh Boyd’s landscapes at the
Decoration Gallery. The unusualness of this artist
is that he is equally charming in oil and water-color.
The dainty and poetic water-colors of Portsea
scenery are not more likeable than the radiant bits of
bushland in the heavier medium. His painting of
the gum-tree that owes nothing to the exuberant
manner of the Hans Heysen school is a remarkable
feature of his -work. The lovely old tree in No. 7,
with a well-observed high light silvering its con-
tours, deserves a special mention, and so does the
timber in the brilliant “Morning Light.” The large
“Winter Calm,” showing a large crescent of beach
almost swamped by the towering scrub behind, is
fascinating in its color and seems a bargain at 65
guineas. Two or three wattle-tree effects and a
couple of vivid snapshots of the electric-light works
at Richmond are also prizetakers in the exhibition.
But the gem from the writer’s point of view is the
comparatively simple “Haystacks, Evening,” where-
in the color is handled with rare skill.
sf: St Ss #
Melbourne King’s where “Three Wise
Fools” flourish, is stated in the advt. to he
the Mecca' of country visitors.
Melbourne Majestic is relying on Alice
Joyce and Grace
Darmond to fill
the cash-box this
week. Alice is the
bright spot in a
racing tale which
keeps curiosity sus-
pended until the
final curtain. Grace
tries to show
“What Every
Woman Wants,”
but hardly gets
.started before the
film gives out. (It
is estimated that
4000 miles of cellu-
loid will be needed
to do the subject
justice.) Hoyt’s
are trying a week
of Bailey’s Metro-
politan Choir be-
tween the pictures
of “La Belle
liusse” and “The
Gunfightin’
Gentleman.” Theda
Bara spurns the
Decalogue as the
twin of the Rus-
sian beauty, and is
assisted by Aus-
tralia’s old friend
"The Girl for the
Boy," at Melbourne
Tivoli.
George Gee as the
artist.
friend Warburton Gamble.
Margaret Swallow, leading lady of “The
Man from Toronto,” continues to look fas-
cinating in the cap and apron of parlor-
maid Polly Perkins at Sydney Tivoli.
Sydney Majesty’s still answers “Yes,
Uncle!” to all inquiries.
For those who like dramatic flowers “The
Rose of Killarney” strews its petals, night
by night, at Sydney Playhouse.
Sydney Palace re-opens with a blast of
nautical airs on Saturday, when “The Luck
of the Navy” goes up oii/H.M.S. Tait.
“Irene” still refuses to he dislodged from
Sydney Criterion. The management blames
Dorothy Smith chiefly, and the bulk of popu-
lar opinion supports the charge.
“Why Change Your Wife?” is the ques-
tion at Sydney Haymarket and the Globe,
and the answer (which will make the aver-
age man nearly drop dead) is because she
won’t change her frocks nor use her powder-
puff as industriously as she did in the days
before she landed her fish. At the same
houses “The Garter Girl” does not retain
quite the flavor of the O. Henry story—
“ The Memento”—on which it is built. Kitty
Kelly, M.D., plays gracefully with a stetho-
scope at the Lyceum and the Crystal Palace,
nd .,,? orn Mix * s an ingratiating “Dare-
devil’ at Hoyt’s and the Piccadilly.
❖ % % sj<
“Kissing Time” at Adelaide Royal has
been so popular that the rest of the season
has to be compressed. Maud Fane, charm-
ing as ever, and notably thinner, warbles
sweetly with Gladys Moncrieff; and both
girls are funny in partnership with Leslie
/Holland and Theodore Leonard of the
strongly-contrasted styles. Leonard needs
to beware of a throaty finish to his sen-
tences, which gets a sure laugh but is apt
to make the words inaudible beyond the
front stalls. A very strong co. has been
able to dispense with Florence Young and
Roberts till “Maytime” comes. At the
Prince of Wales Minnie Love has made a
final appearance in “The Officers’ Mess.”
The revival is not so good as the original
production in July, Rex London, who was
then in the low-comedy part, having now a
light-comedy character which does not suit
him so well. At West’s, “Old Lady 31,”
which Adelaide has not seen on the stage,
appears on the screen ; Mitch Lewis affords
a strong contrast in the other half of the
programme. Irene Castles is an “Amateur
Wife” at Wondergrapli: her quiet ways
nearly lost her a perfectly good husband till
she woke up and broke speed limits.


“WHERE THE GOOD HATS ARE.”
MURDOCHS
PANAMA Hats
are Leaders in Style, Comfort,
Smartness and Value.
the right hats for real men.
/
m
i)
iniim
1
We buy them direct trom the
South American makers—in
big quantities. This accounts
for the Big Savings you effect
when you purchase at
MURDOCH’S
Here are the Newest Shapes:
City, Alpine or Wide Brims.
All are Snowy Bleach, Fine,
Evenly-woven Plait.
City Panama Shape (as illus-
trated), 2iin. and 2£in. brims,
fitted with greas e-proof
leathers. and 2in. Black
Silk Bands. Sizes to 7£.
Special
Value,
21 1-
Other Qualities —
25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 42/-
If you are unable to call personally, write to DESK R, and
remember to state size required and width of brim.
We Pay the Postage Direct to Your Door.
Our Women helped magnificently in the War; help them now
by Supporting the Y.W.C.A. Campaign.
MURDOCH’S
In Park Street Ltd., Sydney,
“The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store.”
at.*
Neat design Dia-
mond Ring, with
Diamond Shoulders,
Platinum, £B4.
Very-choice quality
Single Diamond
Ring, all Platinum,
£lO5.
18ct. Gold Watch on 15ct. Gold
Expanding Bracelet. Special.
£l6/10/-
Diamond Cluster Ring,
exceptional workman-
ship, selected gems,
£B4.
Fine Sapphire, sur-
rounded by choicest
Brilliants,
Platinum, £4O.
Three-gem Ring,
two very beautiful
Diamonds, with
centre a rare-
quality Sapphire,
£2lO.
NEW DESIGNS.,
The Rings illustrated are chosen from a selection
which leaves nothing to be desired in distinctive-
ness, quality or workmanship. The selection covers
a variety of prices to accommodate every individual
requirement. The workmanship is of a standard
consistent with over 50 years’ experience in the
manufacture of only high-grade jewellery; the
• gems are the choicest obtainable. The Firm s
bracelet watches, too, represent the manufacture
of only the world’s best makers.
ILLUSTRATED WATCH OR RING CATALOGUE WILL BE MAILED
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN THE COMMONWEALTH.
OTm* Brummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
A copy of the full Prospectus has been lodged with the Registrar-General of Victoria.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
National Portland
Cement Ltd.
(MARIA ISLAND, TASMANIA)
(To be registered under the Companies Act 1915.)
Nominal Capital:
£600,000 in 600,000 Shares of £1 each.
230,000 shares to b 6 offered for Subscription at £1 per share, payable
as under: —
The whole of the above issue is underwritten, and as
underwriters have stipulated for an allotment of not less
than 1 £B,OOO, the Number Available for Public Subscrip-
tion is only 92,000.
24,000 shares fully paid are to be allotted, together with £12,000 in full
payment for assets to be acquired.
11,500 shares fully paid are to be allotted to underwriters.
334,500 shares to be held in reserve to provide for early extension of the
works.
600,000
PUBLIC ISSUE :
The above 92,000 Shares are now OFFERED FOR
SUBSCRIPTION at £l.
Payable: 5/- Application, 5/- Allotment, 5/- Three Months, and 5/- Six
Months after Allotment.
LIST CLOSES MELBOURNE, SEPTEMBER 30.
DIRECTORS.
SIR JOHN MONASH, G.C.M.G., K.C.8., Collins House, Melbourne, Civil
Engineer and Manufacturer.
SIR JOHN GRICE, K. 8., “Collulah,” Hawksburn, Gentleman.
BOWES KELLY, Esq., 60 Queen Street, Melbourne, Grazier.
EDWARD WARD, 383 Collins Street, Melbourne, Investor.
ROBERT W. KNOX, Esq. (Knox, Schlapp and Co.), Collins House, Melbourne,
HAROLDBICKFORD, Esq., Fairholm Grove, Camberwell, Merchant.
P. J. HOLDENSON, Esq. (Iloldenson and Neilson), 521 Flinders Street, Mel-,
bourne, Merchant. ~ .
GEO W. LONG, Esq., 100 Young Street, Fitzroy, Manufacturer.
JAMES G. WRIGHT, Esq., 421 Collins Street, Melbourne, Contractor.
E A NEWBEGIN, Esq. (David Mitchell Estate). Burnley Street, Richmond,
F. D. MITCHELL, Esq., Burnley Street, Richmond, Manufacturer.
(The Board, consisting of not more than seven Directors, will be elected by
shareholders.)
CONSULTING ENGINEERS.
A. S. M. MICHELL, M.C.E., and A. J. LONGONI, C.E.
BANKERS.
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.
SOLICITORS.
MOULE, HAMILTON and KIDDLE, Market Street, Melbourne.
SECRETARY and REGISTERED OFFICE:
W. H. TAYLOUR (W. H. Taylour and Son), Equitable Building, Melbourne.
Brokers, Melb.: WARD & CO., 383 Collins St., Melbourne.
Primary Objects of the Company:
To Manufacture High-grade Portland Cement
in Large Quantities.
Reports from Geologists and Cement Engineers, cited in the Prospectus, state:
“The Deposits of highly-suitable cement-making material on
Maria Island total over ten million (10,000,000) tons. The natural
facilities for manufacturing are unique.”
The acute nature of the cement famine is shown by an estimated
shortage of 200,000 tons a year for Australia, and of over 80,000 tons
a year in Tasmania and Victoria. The demand is increasing all over
the world. „ , . ,
The first Plant Unit is designed to produce 30,000 tons of high-
grade cement a year at a cost below that at any other Australian
works.
Substantial dividends are confidently expected.
The minimum number of shares on which the Directors may proceed to allot-
ment is 130,000, but the whole issue of 230,000 has been underwritten.
This abridged prospectus is published under the provisions of the Companies
Act 1915, and does not' fully comply with the requirements of the Act as to a
full prospectus.
Applications for shares in the above public issue must be on
one of the forms of application endorsed upon the full prospectus.
Copy of the full prospectus may be obtained from, and APPLICAf-
TIOXS FOR SHARES MADE TO
Melbourne —WARD & CO., 383 Collins Street.
Adelaide —ALAN L. GREIG & CO., Pirie Chambers, Pirie Street.
Sydney—S. C. WARD & CO., 117 Pitt Street.
F. O. FURNER, 115 Pitt Street.
Brisbane —A. H. HUDSON & SON, Queen Street.
Hobart —R. MAPLEY, Stock Exchange.
L. J. CLIFFORD & CO., Collins Street.
Launceston—C. J. WEEDON & CO., St. John Street.


Use Cocoanut Oil
For Washing' Hair.
Girls and women who wish to keep then-
hair in nice condition should be most cautious
in the soap they wash it with. Most soaps
iina ready-mixed shampoos contain excessive
quantities of alkali. This dries the scalp,
makes the hair brittle and is very injurious
Just ordinary colinated cocoanut oil (a pure'
saponified but quite greaseless liquid), is
far better than the most costly soap vou could
possibly use for a shampoo, for this cannot
possibly hurt your hair.
Merely wet your hair with water and rub it
on. A couple of teaspoonsful makes a perfect
flood of rich, thick, creamy lather, and 'cleanses
both hair and scalp thoroughly. The lather
rinses out easily, and takes with it every trace
of dust, dirt, dandruff or excessive olliness
The hair dries quickly, and evenly, and comes
out fine, and silky, bright, glossy and fluffy,
appearing to be heavier than it is. And best
of all, this colinated egeoanut oil leaves the
hair as easy to dress again, as though you
hadn’t washed it at all. You can get colinated
cocoanut oil at most any chemist, but be sure
it’s “colinated.” which is not expensive—a few
ounces lasting a long, long time.
IMPORTANT: Do not confuse colinated cocoanut
oil with cheaper sticky, emulsified cocoanut oils
or other substitutes. There is only one genuine
colinated oil, as recommended above.
PAIN VANISHES I CORNS LIFT OUT
AFTER FEW DROPS.
Let To-day’s Corn Pain be Your Last Corn Pain.
Lift Any Corn or Callous Out with Finger-tips.
Wonderful ! Girls! Save it a Corner on Dressing-stand.
H
sk> bunkum! No bother! Corns,
callouses—hard 'or soft —sore or
sensitive—all yield and loosen
and lift off—absolutely pain-
lessly.
This newly-found com-
pound is named Frozol-
Ice, and is still another
use of that great medi-
cal discovery “ether.”
Stop at any chemist's for
. a little bottle of Frozol-Ice,
costing but a trifle, but which is ample
to free the feet from each and everv
corn and callous.
Apply some drops on to a delicate
i corn or callous. Like a Hash the soreness
vanishes, and soon the corn or callous peels
right off with the finger-tips.
irozol-Ice is absolutely non-irritant, doesn’t
even inflame the surrounding healthy flesh.
Just fancy! No agony at all, no sting or sore-
ness while using, or afterwards, simply a
shrivelling, drying up of corns and callouses.
*„K. irl lL £ ave , a r corner on your dressing-
table for Frozol-Ice, and never be the “wall-
- 0 £ tbe . ballroom again. Just some
drops of Frozol-Ice, when corns begin aching.
Pain disappears—corn dies T
. T™? Frozol ;Ioe is flattered by worthless
imitations. Avoid them by iosisting on the
green label.
Why Physicians
Advise Magnesia
For Acid Indigestion.
Thousands of people whose stomachs
troubled them after eating have found that by
taking a teaspoonful of pure Sglix Magnesia
in a half-glass of hot water after meals they
can do away with pepsin pills and other
digestive aids, and can still be able to eat
heartily of whatever foods they please, and
have no stomach trouble afterwards. Physi-
cians say that, hot water forces a much
needed blood supply to the stomach, while
Salix Magnesia is undoubtedly the best, safest
and most powerful neutraliser of stomach
acids that can be found. A single teaspoonful
will sweeten the food contents of a sour. acid,
burning stomach in five minutes bv the watch,
and natural digestion will follow without pain
or uncomfortable feeling of anv kind. Con-
tinued use of Salix Magnesia does not
weaken natural digestion, and it is perfectlv
safe to use at any time. It can be had at
almost any chemist’s (in powder or com-
pressed tablets form), but be sure it is Salix
Magnesia you are getting. Do not use other
forms of magnesia for this purpose.
POVERTY
POINT
MOËT &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Fax” : The eternal managerial talk about
the cheapness of entertainments in Aus-
tralia (with the suggestion behind it all that
prices need raising) makes one rather tired
Thring, managing director of the J.C.W
Films, returns from a business trip with
the old, old story that “American and London
managers marvel a t the cheapness of amuse-
ments in this country.” He forgot to mcn-
“IRENE.” AT SYDNEY CRITERION.
An impression of dancers Billy and
Vera de Mersden.
tion that they also wonder at the enormous
profits the combined purveyors of “cheap”
entertainment are making (especially on
Saturday nights) with a scale of charges
nearly twice as high as they were a few
years ago. Robert Courtneidge is a London
manager who doesn’t “marvel” at the present
theatre prices in Australia. He knows how
the profits are arrived at. He remembers
the time when the entertainment was much
less costly and the flow of public patronage
not so well sustained—when the public, in
short, wanted fuller value for its money.
Then, as now, English and American mana-
gers marvelled, not at the prices, but at the
large proportion of the town population
that attended the theatres regularly.
“Norbell” : It -was as the Lord Chancellor
in Tolanthe’ - that Robert Brough made his
first appearance in Melbourne, in ’B5; but
“ e Sydney cast quoted by “T.D.M.” (B.
16/9/20) was slightly different. Nellie
Stewart was Phyllis to the Strephon of
Broccolini; the three leading fairies—after
Emma Chambers and Florence Trevellyan
(Mrs. Brough)—were Emma Temple, Miss
horde and Ida Osborne. St. Clair was
I rivate Willis. This was the first show that
used electric light for “effects,” the fairies’
tiaras becoming suddenly radiant when the
peers were transformed to peris. “lolanthe”
was followed by a revival of “La Fille du
Tambour Major,” with Brough as the Drum-
Major, a part quite out of his line, and one
ot the very few in which he concealed him-
self behind a moustache. Nellie Stewart w r as
Stella. She fell sick during the run, and
Elsa May, wife of tragedian Boothroyd Fair-
clough, was. hurriedly brought from their
9"'”! -it Traralgon, Gippsland, to take
Nellie s place.
, “,9 r K : u ™ sorry “Old Pot” thinks that
brilliant Amy Itosclle had “the worst lead-
-1°? actor for husband” in Arthur Dacre (B.
- lli> really wasn't. As an tmder-
grad. Dacre (whose real name was James)
was an enthusiastic amateur actor; later
hi; throw up nis
doctor’s practice at
Kensington (Eng.),
and began acting-
under Dion Bouci-
cault in America.
At the Court*
Theatre, London,
he played with
Wilson Barrett in
“The Old Love and
the New,” and it
was there he met
Amy Roselle, whom
he married in ’B4.
She was then at
her zenith. Dacre
figured as th e
juvenile in “The
Royal Oak.” at
Drury-lane, and in
“A Life of Plea-
sure,” etc., and
reached his high-
water mark as Jim
the Penman at the
Haymarket. II e
was recognised as
the best fencer on
the stage. They
were a charming-
couple. I have be-
fore me the last
words Dacre wrote
before his death —
they were addressed
to me: “Be any-
thing, a butcher,
baker, or a candle-
stick-maker ; but
get work at any-
thing else than as
an actor. I have
“Yes, Uncle," at Syd-
ney Her Majesty's.
Concierge Baptiste
(Harry Wotton),
whose hobby is
buttoning barebacked
dresses on barefaced
women.
told you, over a pleasant pipe or two, of
my wife’s life, and her plucky, noble career.
You see the end. We are broken-hearted.
God bless you, my boy. Do the best you
can.—Arthur Dacre,”
“Orb”: Cyril Mackay was rehearsing the
Silver King” with Walter Bentley. “Axcuse
me, Meester Mackaie,” said Walter, “but
what kin’ o’ a shairt d’ye intend wearin’ as
Geoffrey Ware?” “Really, Mr. Bentley. I
haven’t thought out that detail yet,” said
rhe surprised Cyril. “But ye do wear a
shairt o' some kin’?” persisted Bentley.
“Well, it’s customary,” admitted Cyril. “The
reason Aw’m askin’ ye this apparently
supairfluous question, Meester Mackaie,”
explained the star, “is this, xlh was playin’
Wulfred Denver once in the English pro-
vinces, when I unbuttoned the deid
Geoffrey Ware’s waistcoat, to feel for his
heairt, he had no shairt on, but his dickey
sprang up an’ hit me in the eye!”
“Nella”: Two pars, one about “Macbeth”
and the other concerning some rampageous
Uni. students, rub shoulders in Poverty
Point (B. 16/9/’2O) ; and that reminds me.
When Genevieve Ward and W. H. Vernon
did “Macbeth” under the Williamson, Garner
and Musgrove banner at Melbourne Theatre
Royal in the early ’eighties, the medical
students hired the gallery for the first night
and went wild. Lady Mac appealed to the
budding sawbones for a fair spin, and the
tragedy proceeded in comparative peace until
Macbeth exclaimed :
Throw physic to the dogs ; I’ll none of it.
Then the gallery broke quite loose again,
and this time stayed loose.
“Old Pot”: When Genevieve Ward and
W. H. Vernon produced “Macbeth” at the
Sydney Royal in 1884 (B. 16/9/’2O) Locke’s
music was used. Teddy Corlesse was
Hecate, and he exhibited a powerful bass
voice. He was a fine all-round actoi;, as
mummers then had to be; he could flit
lightly from Shakspeare to “The Private
Secretary.” His wife, Annie Taylor, was
a fine comedienne who was with the Firm
for years. The much-later Nance O’Neil
production was notable for Nance’s wonder-
ful study of Lady Macbeth, especially in
the sleep-walking scene, but McKee Rankin
made an inglorious failure of Macbeth. If
not too old, he was certainly too fat —Fal-
staff would have suited him better—and the
audience tittered a s he waddled round the
stage seeking a fight with Macduff (Tommy
Kingston). There were roars of laughter
as Macduff subsequently strode on bearing
Macbeth’s property head. Rankin was as
bad in Macbeth as he was good in Colonel
Schwartz ("Magda”), which is saying a
great deal. Only his vanity and the fact that
his old acting-mate Jimmy Williamson had
reminded him that he had played the Thane
of Cawdor led him to undertake the impos-
sible.
“Barbarossa” writes from New York :
Australians who were music-lovers in ’92 will
remember Ovide Musin, much-decorated violinist and,
later, founder of the Belgian School of Violin
in New York. He is well and prosperous here in
the home of his adoption. His just-published reminis-
cences—“My Memories”—tell of many travels and
adventures in the concert world. Australia charmed
him so rm\eh with its splendid reception in '92 that
he returned a cotiple of years later and had an
equally successful tour. He was a better violinist
than an observer, for he says: “Australia is a
country in grey, and any painter partial to neutral
tints could never find himself more in his element
I ban here. The soil is grey, the grass, the trees,
leaves and trunks, equally grey; and the grey-blue
of the sky completes the symphony. From Queens-
land, to the south, Victoria or W.A., winter or
summer, it is the same v ” He married an American
singer, and it was through her that Musin was
spared from the heels of the Germans in 1914, when
they took Liege, where he had been a professor in
the Royal Conservatoire until the death of his
mother freed him to indulge the preferences of his
wife.
“Fredk. Faceplate”: Did Mrs. Macbeth
wear high heels? Miss Hunter-Watts does
in the Allan Wilkie performance.
u.^ y u way of assui ' in g Australian friends
ij , was nev ' er as dead as was stated,
old showman Tregaski turned up in Mel-
bourne the other day. It had been reported
that his connection with the Steele-Payne
bellringers had been severed by his decease,
but seemingly he boosted the show around
8 Africa without any detriment to his health,
and will be re-touring Australasia presently.
I'ax ’: In her revival of “The Marriage of
Kitty” and “The Duke of Killiecrankie” Marie
lempest has stirred the cherished recollec-
tions of playgoers. Fifteen years have slipped
by since J.C.W. produced the comedies ’ in
Australia with a considerably stronger cast,
all round, than the star from England has
been associated with. Marie Tempest fol-
lows Rose Musgrove in the “Kitty” charac-
ter and Florence Hamer as the widow of
the glue manufacturer in “Killiecrankie.” In
each case her predecessor made the part look
younger, and was moreover, smart and
incisive in it. The disimprovement on the
Australian _ original production is more
noticeable in “Killiecrankie,” perhaps, than
in “Kitty.” Florence Hamer was strikingly
effective as the smart Society widow battling
for kinder recognition than Society gives her.
Rose Musgrove was more vivacious and
sparkling than the handsome stranger who
plays Henrietta in the present company, and
Wilfrid Draycott was a Duke of much more
importance and nervous force than the
formal young man of to-day. Graham
Browne, to be sure, is funny as the Duke’s
fortune-hunting friend, but his funniness is
mostly farcical, and Tom Cannam, of old,
could be farcically funny enough for all
reasonable requirements.
Herbert Myers, the Firm’s resident-mana-
ger in Adelaide, has secured the open-air
theatre in the Exhibition Gardens for next
summer. George Welch will settle in Adel-
aide and take the lead, and it will develop
from the customary song-and-dance affair
into a more elaborate Williamsonian pro-
gramme.
Australia s TV ild Nor’-West” is opening
the eyes -of Maorilanders to the vast possi-
bilities of that section of Australia. The
picture was launched at Wellington by M.
I'. Adams, who gave a private screening to
members of the Dominion Parliament, -the
Education Board and many teachers; and
during the opening week thousands of school-
children saw Adams unfold his film and
fistened to his talk. It goes on next to the
L.S..A. and England.
“Hamfat” : The Australian stage was once
afflicted by a lady who had the suibide habit
strongly developed. At intervals she would
arrive at rehearsal with a medicine-glass in
one hand and a small dark bottle in the
other, and the company sadly realised that
she was committing suicide again. Kisses
and tender sympathy invariably brought her
round from interesting conditions of torpor
or pain ; and she highly appreciated the sen-
sation she created. But a tired manager
bought a stomach-pump and insisted on using
it, and the morbid habit faded out.
“V.V.”: John Barrymore's appearance on
Sydney screens as Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde
“Yes, Uncle," at Syd-
ney Her Majesty's.
Alf red Frith as
Bobby Lnmmcrs
dabbling in color.
recalls that his
Richard 111. was
always spoken of
in the States in
the same breath as
Richard Mans-
field’s. Latter,
during a long
season in New
York, usually de-
voted Saturday
evenings to the
Stevenson story,
much to the dglight
of the gallery. On
one occasion the
gods called for a
speech. Mansfield
glared up. ‘‘P 0 r
three weeks last
season,” he said,
‘‘l played ‘Richard
lII.’ in this theatre
to empty seats. I
gave the best there
was in me to give
few of you even
took the trouble to
see for yourselves
whethef you liked
it or not. Yet now
you call for a
speech. Do you
think for one
moment I am
going to bow and
scrape and thank
you for yo ur
gracious applause?
I am not.” He
paused, then broke the silence with his in-
junction to the musical conductor : “Mr.
riassler,,-you may now strike up some popular
tune for the gentlemen in the gallery to
whistle.”
“Harrison O.”: I have never been accused
of a too-enthusiastic admiration for Aus-
tralian theatrical managements, but having
seen a much-boomed musical show in Paris
I feel more kindly toward them. Its title
was “Pif Paf,” and it happened at the
Marigny, in the Champs Elysees. Two of
the second-best stalls cost me about 315.,
after which I had to buy programmes and
tip several persons who would have remained
untipped in Australia. Several of the prin-
cipals were of fair average J.C.W. quality;
the chorus rather better as regards looks,more
daringly undressed, but of inferior lung
power. A sketch, “Inventions,” which caused
the loudest laughter, I saw a couple of years
ago at Melbourne Majesty’s, when it was
»much more amusingly handled, with Jack
Cannot in the lead. The staging was on a
scale of lavish inexpensiveness, the finale
being the “Chu Chin Chow” scene, which was
a hit of the first edition of “The Bing Boys."
The stage setting was not a patch on that
provided by the Firm, and the ladder-climbing
girls were less numerous and went through
their job with a timidity which suggested
that they feared a nasty fall at any moment.
I would have lodged a dignified protest
against the whole affair but for the facts
(a) when I became too bored I amused my-
self by watching the manoeuvres of the
ladies who frequent the promenade seeking
whom they make themselves agreeable to:
fb) I could not think of the French for
4 putrid.”
“75”: 11. G. Wells has taken a long time
to reach the theatre, but St. John Ervine,
dramatic critic of London Observer, has
written a stage version of “The Wonderful
\ isit,” which is to be presented in N’Yark
by John Barrymore. English theatrical
managers reckon that Wells is an even more
unalluring proposition than Shakspeare-,
though why “Ann Veronica” should not be
made at least a “naughty,” if not an artistic,
stage success, Heavens and the Hebrews,
whose word is law in these matters, alone
know.
‘To Po”: Plow thin is the partition be-
tween tragedy and farce! Genevieve Wgrd
in Melbourne, playing Jane Shore in a dress
designed by Worth, requiring only the re-
lease of a single button to fall to the ground,
.electrified the audience in the stripping scene.
The shame and agony depicted sent a shud-
der through the audience. One night my
pit neighbor drank porter from a bottle at
every opportunity. As the dress was torn
from the wonderful actress, he was finishing
his -third bottle. He gasped, gurgled and
finally growled “Oh, Gerty /” The over-
wrought audience, from floor to roof, 'rocked
with laughter. Then came the reaction, and
indignant shouts of “Put him out!” Too
late. The play for that night was ruined.
A RHYME OF RIDICULOUS MIRTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The jests I hear are morose and thin,
They fail and die ere they well begin,
lint I’ve a tangle of frolic schemes,
A Hopeless muddle of lovely fun
So eye may see by the brazen sun ;
Laughter runs capering through my dreams,
The world may toil and the world may weep—
-1 giggle aloud when fast asleep!
The first brave plan I must' start on soon
Is to fish the. solemn, round, silver moon
Out of the pool where it’s gleaming bright,
My tackle a small bent pin and thread,
A tempting chuckle, a crumb of bread;
Then take it oil to a church one night
And sit in a pew and drop it straight
Into the pompous collection plate.
'Tis plain to me it would be divine
To lasso the stars with grocer's twine
And drag them down to within one's touch,
Moulding them into a glinting star
tor little Maudie behind the bar—
It isn’t concern for Maud so much,
Rut to see the fun when she cried with scorn,
“These Brummagem things l have never worn !”
Tiie silver boys of the dancing rain
I'd like to conquer and tame and train
To wheel about and to charge when told.
Then march them into, a stuffy hall
Where folk spun round at a civic ball,
Parade them gleaming wet and cold,’
To kiss the slender and cool the fat
And dance on his Worship’s furry hat!
1 would bring the saplings tall and slim
From gullies deep where the light is dim ;
I’d set them dancing down Collins-street,
Swaying and bending and fresh and free,
Graceful and slender and good to see;
I'd watch the ladies with mincing feet,
And when they’d looked on their rhythmic grace
I’d laugh aloud in each prim dame’s face.
1 see these things when asleep in bed,
\nd having upon such laughter fed
Are you surprised, when I must wake,
ni sorry and glum and I cannot grin
At foolish yarns that the jesters spin,
The wonderful puns that their slow lips make?
With dreary humor the way is sad,
But Night comes down and the world goes mad !
VICTORIA.
CUTHBERT CUTPURSE.


\ .
A
a
m,
S‘
(M&Orti
m
Scei
•• --
saM
m
IH
m
h:
'
m%n
■ ..- •
/
i®
is
a
S4*3«
I ■
ft*
;«V , >
s
. • JiJ
»
- ■-. ft .. ft ft :• - ft;ft '. >; A
I
7j
“ HIS TAVOURITE- IN EVERY PORT
WATSONS N°lo
£Z)u7idee
Jcolla/nxi.
r\
W°'Q*
/a


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and CCOLGARDIE,
Harvey’s Special whisky
-ole Agents : RESCHS, LIAITED, Redfern, Sydney.
Goldfinder Soap
LEWIS &WHITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
OF COUNTRY-WIDE FAME.
The Ever-ready,
Ever-reliable
“JACKEROO”
RAINCOAT.
There is no other Raincoat quite like the “JACKEROO”— or
nearly so good for the money. An All-purpose Coat that is
worth more shillings than the shillings you are asked to pay.
And there is “A 12-Months’ Guarantee.”
Material is in FAWN color. Strong DOUBLE TEXTURE
Macintosh, having layer of RUBBER between the two layers
of cloth, thus rendering it absolutely waterproof.
IDEALLY SUITEf) FOR RIDING, DRIVING or WALKING.
The “Jackeroo” has V-piece fitted at back to cover back of
saddle, but for walking purposes this can be buttoned and
CONVENIENTLY closed up.
631-
Carriage Paid.
B
D
BRISBANE.
LIMITED
TOOWOOMBA.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
for
SPORTING
NEEDS
The Epsom favorite Chrysolaus was well
and truly beaten by Greenstead in the Rosehill
Spring Stakes on Saturday. If ever a horse funked
a finish the imported grey did; and the Epsom
lias never yet been won by that sort of animal
there were only six starters. Chrysolaus had a
clear passage all the way, and was with Greenstead
till just below the distance, where he went to pieces.
One possibility is that, being a nag of moods, he
objected to the mud. Another is that the display
was confirmation of what the public had suspected
when Itemmon downed him a month ago. The
effect, anyhow, is to make Reramon (with 7st. 71b )
look a paper-certainty for the Epsom. He beat
Chrysolaus over six furlongs, and then licked Green-
stead to a frazzle over seven, and now Greenstead
outs Cliry'solaus over eight.
Erasmus, who with a big pull in weights ran
Chrysolaus to half a length in the Chelmsford, beat-
ing all the other three-year-olds, will have to improve
mightily on his performance in the Rosehill Guineas
to win the Derby. A levelling of the weights to
Bst. 51b. and approximation to Derby conditions
made a lot of difference to this fellow in comparison
with Strathredole. There were 13 runners, Gossine
Ilattan being the oidy filly, and Erasmus, Strathre-
dole, Glenacre, Speciality and Vespucci were backed
with considerable confidence. Wirraway was vainly
marketed at 20’s. The race was in a measure a
repetition of what happened last year when the
despised Woorayva capsized a red-hot pot in Finmark
and gave the ring something like a skinner. Wirra-
way,-ridden by the Newcastle jock. Mahoney, who
seems to have a special talent for bringing out-
to light, ran behind for half a mile, and
then moved up smartly and came round the turn just
astern of Glenacre and Speciality. Roth of these
blew up on the run home, and there was nothing
behind Wirraway fleet enough to reach him. He
galloped on in good style and hit the line half a
length from Syce Knight, with Strathredole a
length further back. Erasmus was fourth and not
doing too well. He had every chance. Dempsey
might have ridden Strathredole with more artistry.
The colt was kept rather far out of his ground over
the last half-mile and got into serious trouble. He
was finishing well, though without any particular
brilliancy. This page continues to view his Derby
chance optimistically.
* * * *
Wolaroi pulled up a t Rosehill with a
damaged leg and is not likely to race again. The
black was a great money-spinner for Dan Seaton. He
started early with the rich A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate and
in the same season took the Sires’ Produce Stakes and
Champagne. In 40 starts he registered 13 wins and
was only beaten out of a place 10 times. With
£20,000 to his credit he stands fourth on the list
of big Australian stake-winners. When offered for
sale as a yearling nobody was prepared to give
£3OO for him.
At Randwick the other day some of the
Peace Loan fliers frightened the insides out of the
horses, and caused Uneasiness amongst the knowledge-
able section of the public by stunting over the cr«vd.
At Mascot (N.S.W.) a week later the idiocy was
repeated, the low and flash flying being more marked
than ever. The A.J.C. authorities and the police
protested to the local branch of the Australian Aero
Club, which passed the missives on to the Military
Flying heads, while copies were also sent to the
Prime • Minister and the Minister of Defence. But
it was all so much ceremonial. If a man drove a
sulky down the wrong side of Collins or George
streets, he would be hauled up on the spot as a
public menace. Fliers can still imperil the lives of-
hundreds over those or any other public places
without liability to punishment. No one is allowed
to interfere with the horses during a. public race—
always excepting an aviator, who is at liberty to
prejudice the running of as many events as he
likes. Meanwhile, the Australian Government is
doing nothing with the air-control powers which
it has already held for some months.
* * * *
At the Bananaland Turf Club’s September
fixture the seven races boosted seven sires, and
only two were Australian bred. Mooltan sired
Doondi, winner of the Trial; and Wolowa was
responsible for Karamu, who pulled his followers
through in the Open Handicap. For this event
Lordaere, booked for Sydney Spring Bookmakers’
Benefit Meeting-, carried tubs of public coin, but
was not fancied by his connections. The consistent
Banzhead was neglected by punters for the Sep-
tember Handicap, in which the short-priced Nairu
got stuck in the mud. In the Valley Handicap
King \ol, who won, was in receipt of nearly half
a cwt. from the runner-up, Master Warkon.
The September meeting of the Tasmanian
Racing Club was held at Elwick on Saturday, and
the principal race—September Mile Handicap—was
taken by Warneton, who beat Lyons’s Capture geld-
ing, Nadirshah, a neck. The winner was out again
in the Flying (6f.), the last race, and with 241 b.
more to hump made the rest look mere mokes.
An aroma of bygone celebrity clung to the
name of “Bill” Yeomans, who died last week,
although he had never ranked very high as a jockey.
Perhaps the fact that Tom Hales shared a sheep-
station with him after he had retired from the saddle
helped to keep him in evidence, and in later years
he was spoken of as the breeder of two or three suc-
cessful jumping horses. Furthermore he had at last
tile distinction of being almost a Methuselah among
ex-jockeys. But his score of notable wins, during
ins 25 years or so of turf life was not great. He
rode the third horse in the Melbourne Cup of 1865,
when Panic humped lOst. into second place. He had
a mount, in 10 subsequent Cups—the last in 1883 —
but he never was placed again in the big event, nor
was his mount much fancied. - A lot of old Melbourne
Cup interest, however, attached to “Toby” Moran,
who died in Java the day previous to old Yeomans’s
passing. Moran was on Ruenalt' when that alleged
fcortainty started a hot favorite for the Cup
of ’94, and in the previous year lie was
on one of the surest things that ever were, bar in-
structions. ft was a year of mediocrities, when the
books bawled “8 to 1 on the feeldl” Sainfoin was
favorite, and Carnage, the fiery Derby-winner, was
quoted at 9’s along with two others'. The three-
quarter brother to Carbine was thought to be not
quite fit for the loin-' journey, and boy Moran had
instructions to keep him from making ’the running.
Hence the spectacle of Carnage at the head of the
crowd trying to tear- away faster, whilst the boy
vvas leaning back anil pulling at him. For about a
mile and a half the noble animal had his mouth
Open. (liven his head he would have anticipated
the Newhaven feat of winning from end to end—
with “nothing to beat.” As it was, persistent
fighting for his head took too much out of the
three-year-old, and old-man Tarcoola, a moderate
horse of doubtful stamina, overhauled him at the
finish. W. R. Wilson had lost the £lO,OOO stake
through commanding an obedient jockey-boy to be
sure and thwart a headstrong horse in' its natural
desire. People said afterwards that Jeweller, who
finished a close thjrd under unlucky conditions,
ought to have won, but Jeweller was a gee of no
class, anyhow. Carnage was the only brilliant horse
in the field, and his people didn’t know it.
* * * *
For the first time in 20 years a Norths’
Rugby team has won Sydney City Cup. The Shore-
men downed Western Suburbs by 14 points (2 tries
4 goals) to 7 points (1 try 2 goals). Wests were
slightly cleverer in the scrums, but the Red and
Blacks, headed by wily veteran George Green, out-
played them in the ruck. Norths finished the first
spasm with a lead of 2 points, having scored 4
points (2 goals by Dune. Thompson) to 2 points
(1 goal by Wall).\ The pace was a cracker after
lemon time, and Norths notched another 3 points
GORDON WRIGHT (Sydney E. Suburbs),
who has scored the greatest number of
tries ( 18 ) in the League Premiership
this season.
through the agency of Horsey, who galloped 35yds.
to place the leather for’ard of the chalk line. Then
Collins, of Wests, after a magnificent passing bout
among- the backs, crossed in ; Wall added the extras,
and honors were easy. At the end of the stipulated
40 minutes the scores still stood at 7 all, and referee
McMahon ordered the teams to change ends and bog in
for a further 10 minutes each way. The Northerners
were the fresher of the two, and with the advantage
of a slight breeze they managed to add 7 points
to their total, made up of a try by Rule converted by
Thompson, who also piloted a penalty goal. The best
player on the winning side was Teddy Taplin at full
back. His line-kicking, tackling and attacking
methods were brilliant, and he completely over-
shadowed Wall, Wests' custodian. Rule and Peters
were sound in Norths’ three-quarter line, but Blink-
horn and Horder were below form. Thompson.
Norths’ half, and Dallas Hodgins played well and'
tackled like demons. Qf the Red and Black for-
wards, Horsey was most noticeable in the open, with
Crc-n °nd Ives towers of strength and astuteness
in the loose rucks. The best forward on the ground
was Courtney, who is 39 and has had 14 years of
big football. When he wasn’t in the front row of
tlie scrum he was behind the pack heaving the
leather out to the backs like a half, and his tack-
ling was deadly. Gray, a lad recently promoted
from second grade, waS easily Wests’ best back, and
Collins on the wing was always dangerous. The
proceeds of the match are t 6 be divided among
D. Lutge, who skippered the original “Kangaroos”
in England in 1908 ; Arthur Butler, another ’Roo;
Lees, an East pioneer; E. Swinson, Glebe; and Tiny
Hawkes, a veteran Newtown hair.
Sydney ’Varsity footballers played two
tests in Maoriland, and each side had a victory:
M. 17—9, and Sydney 11—8. The first test was
particularly willing, and M.L. had two serious casual-
lies. 11l luck pursued the side in the second test
and Phillips (Auckland) had to be assisted off the
field with a damaged knee after scoring a brilliant
try. Despite that M.L. led by s—nil at half-time,
Sydney came with a rattle and just snatched a hard-
fought victory. The match was played in four
spells of 20 minutes, which brightened the game
immensely. Lawton (half-back) played finely for
Sydney in both matches.
In the Australian 'Rules final at Sydney
on Saturday Paddington led by 31—7 in the first
quarter. Newtown were only six points behind
(04 —58) by the end of the third and began the
final spin by notching a goal (64 each). Then Pad-
dington hit up 5 goals in a few minutes and won by
95 —68. Laird and Evans (3 goals each) did best
for Paddington, and Furlong and Gillard shone for
Newtown. In the second-grade final, Newtown
defeated South Sydney by 52—29. Victoria v.
N. on the coming week-end will end the Sydney
season.
* * * *
The weather failed to damp the 1 ardor of
Melbourne hoofhall enthusiasts on Saturday, and some
60,000 swarmed into the Cricket eventually
pushing down the fence and spreading over the play-
ing- space. Carlton was deciding the second semi-finnl
with Richmond, and, after they had got used to
plunging round in foot-deep mud, the game developed
into an exhibition ofjnain force against skill. Main
force, represented by Carlton, put on 13 points in the
second term to Richmond’s nix, and at half-time led
by 28 points to 8. In the next term the Blues added
1. while the Tigers, marking gaudily and picking
their men with amazing accuracy, played the only
football seen that day and ended the quarter with
30 points to Carlton’s 29. But the effort had
apparently exhausted them. The old Blues tore
through the slush time and again and finished with
53. points to Richmond’s 30. Carlton will now meet
’Vvood in the “final,” and Richmond will play the
winners for the pennant. As the East Melbourne
around was practically under water the Ass. reluct-
antly decided to postpone its semi-final.
Jack Gregory will play this cricket season
with Sydney—the club of which A.I.F. Captain H.
L. Collins is one of the stars.
* * *
E. H. D. Sewell, one of the best judges of
cricket in England, has a special good word for
“Patsy” Hendren, of Warner’s Middlesex team, who
has headed the country’s batting averages all sum-
mer. He is a little Irishman who plays a forcing
game; also “one of the greatest of all-round fields-
men, and for the benefit of the ‘gate’ ought to be
put in the long field both ends. He will be very
popular on and off the field in Australia, where they
know a trier when they see one.”
* * * *
On Saturday the Vic. Senior Cadets held
their first annual three-mile cross-country champion-
ship on the Caulfield racecourse. Brigadier-General
Brand, the State Commandant, who is an old harrier
himself, did most to put the function on its feet.
About 250 youngsters faced the starter, the winner
turning up in Gus Anderson (Moreland), who
touched off J. X. O’Driscoll (Coburg) in 17min.
44see., after the latter had made all the pace. W.
■F. Borlase (Melbourne) was third. Anderson was
runner-up in the recent Vic. five-mile jailor cham-
pionship.
The ten-miles cross-country amateur champion-
ship of Victoria was held in conjunction with the
above. A. A. Parker (Carlton) confounded the sport-
ing tipsters by running home an easy winner from
his club-mate W. P. O’Neil, with F. Kohlinan (Haw-
thorn) third. Parker (runner-up last year) did the
trip in 60min. 204 sec. McMillan (St. Stephen’s),
last year’s victor, only managed to get fourth, with
Tom Vines (five-mile champion) next. St. Stephen’s
Harriers (52 points) again annexed the teams
championship and the Frederico Shield, Carlton
being once more forced to play second fiddle to the
saints. *
* * ' ♦ *
Victoria has found a rival for the Botany
(N.S.W’.) harrier who ran barefooted. At the Vic.
10 miles cross-country championship at Caulfield T.
Dunbabin, who made a very good showinr.; in the
10 miles 15 years ago, when he ran for Tasmania,
and has taken the game up again with the East
Melbourne Harriers this year, lost a shoe early in
the race. He pulled the other off and ran nine miles
with bare feet, coming home fourth for the East
Melbourne team —a very sick team these days, by
the way.
Jack Green looked bigger and fitter than
ever when he faced Bert McCarthy, of Melbourne, at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday night. He beat the
visitor, but the victory was barren of credit.
McCarthy entered the ring with a badly injured eye,
and Green at once began peppering it. He also
fell into some transparent fouls, including a couple
of damaging “shamrock” punches. This kind of
thing is encouraged by the referee’s natural reluct-
ance to ruin the big bout of the evening by a dis-
qualification, but it is bad for the game and rough on
the unfortunate who abides by the rules. Half-way
through the contest McCarthy’s eye was out of com-
mission, and in the 15th round he gave the affray
best. He is a game little pug with a formidable
right, who should draw well the next time he shows
in Sydney.
Alf Felton put up a great finish (from
scratch) in the Brisbane sculling handicap final on
Saturday. The lumpy water was against the back-
markers, but Felton showed great watermanship and
went down By less than a length to W. H. Christsen
(40sec.). Ripley. McDevitt and Arnst finished well
behind him. Christsen (Bundaberg) was Queens-
land single-sculls champion in 1914,, but was defeated
for the title by Arthur Baynes in 1919.
* * * *
Thirty-eight cyclists started in the Goul-
burn-Enfield road-race on Saturday. The victor
turned up in W. H. Williams, a hard-as-nails six-
foot veteran of 42, who, with a handicap of 40min.,
plugged along in the lead and won by 20min. in 6hr.
40min. losec. Williams had made five previous
attacks on the 126-miles event. Ken Ross (smin.)
was next in 6hr. 31min. osec. (the fastest time),
despite a couple of bad spills. Vic. champion E.
Tamme (scratch) took a wrong turning and vet
finished eighth.
* * * *
“O. Blin”: Saturday’s semi-final between
Carlton and Richmond at the M.C.C. ground brought
a raob that was too large for the accommodation,
w the result that fences burst under the pressure
and the populace overflowed, threatening to encroach
on the playing area. Despite the strenuous efforts
ot troopers and foot police, this actually occurred
in the last quarter, and the
umpire had to call an
armistice while reinforce-
ments were brought up to
push back the invasion.
During the main interval
the multitude hoofed over
the moist ground and pro-
vided an unexampled bog
for the final half of the
scramble. I have never
before seen such mud on
the M.C.C., nor heard such
a horde of plutocrats. The
tenners that were offered
in bets by people whom
you wouldn’t Suspect to
own twopence would have
been enough to pi-ovide
Cook with another Peace
Loan. But you 'mustn’t
tax these poor people tup-
pence, no niatter what the
country’s debt.
W. MAYBURY, see.
Richmond Football
Club.
Vasa ’: A good Australian lias put up a
performance which must be unique. Last week the
220 yds. Swimming Championship of England returned
to Australia, and the records of the race will hence-
forth read:—
1908 .. F. E. Beaurepaire (Aus.), 2mfn. 37sec.
1910 .. p. R. Beaurepaire (Aus.), 2n.in. 30sec.
1920 .. F. E. Beaurepaire (Aus.), 2min. 29 l-ssec.
in short “Bogey” came back after an interval of 10
years. He improved 4-6 sec. on his previous time.
Can any other nation show anything to equal it in
any branch of sport?
* * * #
Geelong and South Yarra, who are
battling for the Vic. tennis premiership, met again
at Geelong on Saturday and the local team got
home by 1 set 6 games. If the sleepy village
annexes the doubles match next Saturday it will be
entitled to the championship, but if the other side
wins, the first prize will go to the club with the
larger aggregate of games in the two matches.
Jack Hawkes was the hero of Saturday’s argument,
beating Norman Brookes by two sets to love (6 —2.
7—■>). Brookes played a lot of weak strokes and
was greatly troubled by Hawkes’s .service, whereas
the Geelong youngster found Brookes’s service and
even his first returns very suitable for a winning
forehand or backhand drive. Pat O’Hara Wood
was South Yarra’s only big performer, with 6—2,
6 —l to his credit against Carr of Geelong. Keays,
the Geelong captain, won easily from Hawthorn,
losing only two games in two sets, and Baird the
fourth Geelong man, had to throw in the towel to
Sandral after a strenuous three-set struggle.
* . #' * *
Norman Peach beat Eric Pockley in the
Sydney Tennis Club captaincy final on Saturday.
The young man already holds the Northern and
Western Suburbs and Metropolitan titles, and on
form may be worth considering for a place in the
Davis Cup team.
*** . *
At the N. S. Wales Combined High
Schools championships meeting last week'Leonard A.
Bannister (North Sydney), who was the top-notcli
junior in 1918, and who last year smashed several
senior records, won the 100yds. (lOisec.) and 220yds.
(22 3-ssec.), and in the heats of these events equalled
his own school’s records (10 3-10 see. and 23sec.). Jim
McManame.v( North Sydney)won the 440yds. in 54 2-5
sfec. (a record) ; and S. Burt (Sydney High) took the
120yds. hurdles in 18sec. Two fine efforts were J.
Steelq’s (North Sydney) half-mile in 2min. 10 4-ssec.
(record) and J. Pendlebury’s (East Maitland) mile
in omin. 3 3-ssec.- —2see. below record figures. Both
ran with splendid judgment. J. Wiseman (Wollon-
gong) won the high jurnp with sft. 3in. Later in
an assault on the record, he added lin. to R.
Harbison’s sft. 6in. put up last year. The South
Coast youth has many of the marks of a coming
State champion. The 440yds. relay also damaged a
record, North Sydney’s four doing the stretch in
46 2-ssec. R. Burgess (Wagga) took the Junior
100yds. (11 l-ssec.) and 220yds. (26sec.) ; and F.
Coss (North Sydney) annexed the Cadet Juniors’
100yds. (12 l-ssec.) and 220yds. (28sec.). Among
the Seniors North Sydney (31 points) scored more
thjjn the other seven schools put together; Sydney
High took the Junior Shield, and North Sydney the
Junior Cadet Trophy.
* * * *•
“Ex-Englishman”: Australia is going to
fall in if it accepts the suggestion of a par (B.
26/8/’2O) that the M.C.C. team is badly hit by the
absence of Barnes and Spooner, and would without
Woolley be “little more than second class.” Barpes can’t
be as good as he was, and is oni of first-class cricket,
anyway. Spooner is an admitted back-number, and
his inclusion was mainly due to his social qualities;
it is safe to say that Douglas, with his previous
experience here, will be a better captain, and Wil-
son (who seems to get Spooner’s place) more use
as a player. Wilson, bv the way, was named by
one of the best judges in England, just before the
team was picked, as a good thing for it and the
captaincy. As for Woolley, to lose a good all-
rounder would be annoying, but this is a team of
all-rounders, and the loss of one would not cripple
it. And who says Woolley isn’t coming, anyway ?
THE RINGSIDERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Out on the glaring cricket-field
The sweating strive;
Bowling like mad to those who wield
Their bats in cut and drive.
But in the cool pavilion’s shade
Beside some shy, yet ardent maid,
Another type, in pleasing, thrall,
Plays at the oldest game of all.
Let Pattersons in embryo
Bound round their tennis-courts,
And gallop, panting, to and fro!
The person who cavorts
In such a way, in quest of fame,
Misses the more delightful game
Of him who, in the shilling seats,
Sits with his girl and views their feats.
And When, once more, War's summons comes
Calling the young and brave,
One band will march behind the drums
To glory or the grave,
While there come to them down the wind
The cheers of those who stay behind—
The sportsmen whom no cause diverts
From playing round the ladies’ skirts.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


“Keep Something Up Your Sleeve”
Kftjfi
and let that something be an arm that you can be proud of—an
arm firm and muscular —a man’s arm. Back it up with an evenly
developed body—active and healthy, and you can afford to laugh at
the ordinary troubles of every-day life. Health and Strength
more than compensate for any other shortage you may experience.
T.:ey go hand in hand with youth, cheerfulness and lightheartedness.
You can’t afford to let yourself run to seed.
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture
will provide you with the exercises necessary to keep every
muscle and organ in perfect order. The secret of my success is
that I give every pupil strict personal attention in prescrib-
ing treatment —thus in adopting my course you would
receive exercises most suitable to your individual physique,
just as the particulars you furnish tell me you require.
Write to-day for a FREE copy of my booklet, “Health and
Strength from Self-Culture,’’ which tells all about my
methods, fees, etc. Just write your name and address across
this advertisement and send it to me, with three stamps to
cover postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
Natural Health and Physical Culture Expert,
337 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
• t
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Over the World*
MAKES OLD RAZORS
SHAVE LIKE NEW.
©0
CO
oo
A sharp Razor is its
own reward to the man
who shaves himself, yet
how to keep it sharp,
with tough beards has
always been the great
obstacle, for the average
man does not know how to set or
sharpen a Razor. The simple yet
exnedient PERFORATED HONE
solves the question permanently;
it provides a lifetime of easy
shaving for a small outlay—only
5/-, or post free 5/6. TRY THE
PERFORATED HONE; if it
doesn’t make your razor shave to
your satisfaction return it to us within
30 days and get your money back.
Sold by all leading Hardware Merchants
at 5/-, or post free 5/6 from
The Perforated Hone Co<,
Dept. 11—123 Sussex Street, SYDNEY. [«
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITAEI3 FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 0.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
STONE BREAKERS.
Portable Stone Breakers, Portable Bins
and Screens, Crushing Rolls, Elevators.
Manufactured
by-
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVES
New South Wales: A. lieplastrier & Co., Sydney Queensland: Australian Machinery
Co., Ltd., Brisbane; South Australia: Geo. P. Harris,, & Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide; West Australia: W. G. Manners & Co., Kalgoorlie; New Zealand:
Blair, Reed & Co., Wellington; Malay States: fiunn & George, Ltd., Singapore.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE No. 20.
- _ : .
Magnesia
for Indigestion.
RYNOCH
All-British CARTRIDGES
I TRADE
r\
The Brand that Stood for Quality
at the Front.
Stands for Quality in Australia.
The Sporting Cartridges of Pre-War ; Standard.
The “High Cost of Clothes
99
Need Not Worry
YOU..
You need not worry over having to
pay prices for clothes out of keeping
with your income, since you can, in
actual fact, still obtain GOOD Clothes
to Order at Moderate Cost.
“Lincoln-Stuart”
Tailoring
provides for its Patrons a Complete
Range of Seasonable Textures —all of
CERTIFIED Quality—in Garments
Tailor-made in a manner that permits
of SATISFACTION being uncondi-
tionally GUARANTEED —at prices
to suit any pocket.
Our present Display of Suitings for
Spring comprises probably the Biggest
Range of High-grade Suitings gathered
under one Retail Roof in Australia —
our Regular Stocks being further
enriched by the arrival of consign-
ments of
English Tweeds and
Worsteds, excellent in
quality and texture —Ideal
Suitings for the coming
Season.
Australian Pure Wool Tweeds, of
medium weight, forming an alluring
display of the latest weaves and color-
ings, while the inclusion; of
Pure Merino Wool Indigo-dyed
Twills add materially tjo the selection
provided, and will be > welcomed by
those who, of late, have found this tex-
ture practically unprocurable. Prices
range from
£6 15 - to £l2/12/-
which, while assuring Tailor-
ing,, are so moderate as to provide a
very definite reason foi; ordering Now!
PATTERNS ARE/ POST FREE.
Lincoln,
Stuart $ Co.
PTY.
LTD.,
“Tailoring Specialists,”
244-54 Flinders St, Melbourne.


In every walk of life, in both England and America,
"INECTO”
IS RECOGNISED AS THE ONLY PERMANENT HAIR COLORING
THE responsibilities and strain of modern conditions are such.
that only those possessed of youthful vigor and appearance
can attain to the highest pinnacles of success. Premature greyness
of hair is a very real handicap in every aspect of life. "Inecto” per-
manently restores to grey or faded hair all its original colour. Obtain-
able at Farmer’s Hairdressing Salon, and all leading hairdressers.
The "Inecto” Case contains four pairs of small
bottles, thus divided, waste is reduced to a mini-
mum and deterioration overcome. The applica-
tion is simple and inexpensive. Full information
contained in treatise supplied with "Inecto” case.
n •
"INECTO” is procurable in following shades :
N°- 1~ R eep Black No. Light Brown
N°- ?~5 ar r :< S t Brown . No- 41 —Light Gold Brown
No. 3-Dark Brown No. 7—Reddish Blonde
No. 4—Brown No. B—Blonde
Price complete, 17/3
the Commonwealth : FARMER’S, SYDNEY. Box 497, g.p.o.
Wholesale Agents for New South Wales: Craig 8C Aitken, 654 George Street.
m
m
8$
Jhroai 9rriiaiion
and Coughing
—rso prevalent among: audiences during:
Winter time, is very disconcerting: to the
speaker, whether he he dis-
cussing: from the platform
or pulpit. By taking
1/6 & 2/6
IRISH MOSS
For COUGHS and COI.DS
you will not mar the conduct of the lecture or Service. A
few doses of Bonnington’s will relieve throat _ irritation,
and by continuing the treatment you will soon rid yourself
of all cause for coughing. Bonnington’s is the safe _reniedy
and is sold everywhere—do not experiment with doubtful
substitutes. ' 1/6 and 2/6. 8.A.18.
BONNINCTQN'S
CARRAGEEN
m
ktt
IRISH ’ MOSS;
ClX)*Ct SONMIMCTON
MILLINERY
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust-Proof
Corsets
Gabled word of the death in England of
Reginald Bright, in his 88th year, must
have set many a woman thinking. The
youthful gaiety of Reggie Bright, the aged
bachelor, is a Melbourne tradition, and the
kindly nature of the slim, white-haired old
buck was always evident in the fact that
everybody called him “Reggie” until he
matured into an octogenarian and went to
England. In Alf Vincent’s picture of the
Melbourne Block (1809) the top row of the
procession is led by Reggie Bright, cigar in
mouth, hands behind his coat-tails; and Phil
May had included Reggie in his Melbourne
Block page drawing 11 years earlier—the
same Reggie with white hair and little piece
ot side-whisker to match, tall hat and rose
m his button-hole.
Agar Wynne is retiring into private life
after o() years of politics. The wonder is
that such a commonsense. practical person
has stood the life so long. Twenty years ago
when he was leader for the Peacock Govern-
ment in the Dreary House, he bluntly
expressed the view that it was all flam to
keep quiet for a day or two about the name
of a new Governor which lmd been com-
municated to the Ministry through John
Madden, Lieutenant-Governor; Wynne knew
well enough that the name would be circu-
lated all right among the Naicest people.
Madden wished to rebuke Wynne or frown
on him or something; but Peacock coldly
intimated that anything said to or of -Wynne
would apply to the whole team. So' the
frown was frozen.
A. O. Sachse left £23,000 to his widow,
who already has a fat stocking of her own.
She was a Miss Lange. There are no child-
ren to share with her.
A tragedy of last week was the death of
handsome Dorothea Porter, who passed away
at her mother’s Toorak flat after a few days’
i Iness. She got back to Australia only
three weeks previously from a trip to the
Malay Peninsula, and had just announced
her intention of settling* down as the wife
of Mr. McMurtrie, of Singapore.
One of Meibouitfie’s oldest identities
refused to see anything surprising in the
case of two English, immigrant girls , who
struck up an acquaintance on the boat bound
for Auckland, and found they were both
intent on marrying the same soldier when
they got there. The veteran remembered a
stranger coincidence. Two sweet young
damsels, pupils at different colleges in Mel-
bourne. came to know one another through
travelling in the same train on tile Oakleigh
line. At last, when they had become very
communicative about their home life, they
discovered that they had the same father.
One of them bore his name; the other had
thoughtfully accepted- him as mother’s dear
old platonic friend. Mother was a “widow,”
and lie was a shining light in the Govern-
ment at the time. It seems that ’way back in
the dark ages distinguished politicians made
a hobby of having two families at once, with
power to add to their number; and the joint
father in this case had grown old in the
habit. The artless lawful daughter was
much more shocked by the discovery in the
train than her mother was when she took
the news home.
The Percy Chirnside boys, “Poss” and
Jack, gave a smart jazz party last week at
Homeden, the Norton Grimwades’ Toorak
place. (The Nortons are touring Europe
just now.) It was a cheery show, and the
guests met all Toorak’s milkmen in the morn-
ing. The Percy Ghirnsides have given up
their Werribee homestead and taken Brandon
Park, out Oakleigh way. Mrs. Percy, look-
ing young enough to be a sister to her sons,
was effective in pale peach-colored draperies
and diamonds. Mrs. Wheatley was handsome
in white, and her General twinkled humor-
ously through his monocle. Bronte Shannon,
an Adelaide, girleen, wore a Frenchy-grey
frock with a fruit-salad arrangement on her
head. Maie Ryan, daughter of Charles, wore
her hair bobbed and was the latest scream
from the London has just left. The
Chauncey Luftkins made America popular
and their dancing was classed Al. Mrs.
Luftkin wore green shoes; hubby might have
jumped out of a Dana Gibson picture. Mrs.
Frankie Murray. Mrs. Gordon Chirnside
and Mrs. Sam McCaughey lent their good
looks to the revel. Admiral Grant, who
danced with a nautical lilt, was much
in request among the flappers. Colonel Eric
Harrison and Roma Clarke received many
congratulations.' The fish slicers and dining-
room clocks are already arriving in dozens
at Wimmarleigh. Young “Poss” Chirnside
is with the Bth Hussars at Lucknow, and is
over from India on short leave.
This is the story as a friend of the faniilv
tells it:—
Much has been said against John McCormack over
his abandoned concerts, but none of his clitics are
aware of the true farts. Ever' since he sang “God
Save as a courtesy to the vice-regals at his opening
concert in Melbourne, he has been bombarded with
anonymous insults from Orangemen and Sinn Feiners,
and has been humiliated in various ways at social
functions. Why this extraordinary persecution was
ever started has never been explained. His behavior
everywhere has been impeccable. He has never said
or done a thing to wound the most sensitive on
either side of the Irish riot. His war attitude also
is beyond reproach. It is true that he became an
American citizen, but it had nothing to do with any
attempt to escape war service. As a matter of fact,
he offered to join Uncle Sam’s army, and, being
rejected,, helped about half a million dollars into
the Red Cross chest. As to his naturalisation,
which has been the biggest subject of criticism here,
McCormack originally went to America because he
could earn more money there than anywhere else,
but found that when he had collected a bag of cash
he had to hand over a lump in . income-tax to
Uncle Sam, and also pay a larger sum to the
British Treasury, and between the two the tenor
was left comparatively poor. Partly for that
reason, partly because he proposed to make his
home in the U.S., he became a U.S. citizen, just as
if he had settled in Australia he would have tried to
be an Australian.
The art students make their annual
attempt at artless frivolity to-morrow night
at St. Kilda Town Hall. Everybody desir-
ous of looking like an artist will wear fancy
dress, and to go unmasked will be to invite
disrespect. It is the Commonwealth Bank
to a flake of confetti .that somebody or other
will be the headsman from “Yeomen of the
Guard.” find an art student of pronounced
political antipathies is expected to- go as
William Morris Hughes, with a hat several
sizes too small for his head.
Melbourne’s fashionables will not have
Vena Sexton, of “Sorelle,” to design their
Cup costumes. She is off to Colombo on a
holiday. Grace Palotta, of the same con-
cern. is also in the spicy isle at present.
The energetic Ilyams sisters have booked
St. Kilda Town Hall for a ball on October
5, and are issuing warnings that only a
limited number of tickets will be issued.
The Cufc'hbert Burgoynes, after a tour of
their vineyards, hurried.off by the Tliemis-
tocles on Saturday for Durban, and from
there will set out to various show-places.
They are tired of meeting Prohibition
placards at every turn. Perhaps they are
( begging Gray’s pardon) leaving Australia
to darkness and to tea.
J. J. Bailey is probably Australia’s most
successful choir-master. His choirs from
Melbourne, Ballarat, Geelong and other Vic.
centres have won a crateful of medals and
trophies at various
competitions; and a
champion team of
voices reached the
top of the honor list
at South-street for
three years in suc-
cession, 1917-19.
Bailey. has always
been an enthusiast
for this class of work,
but he has successes
to his credit in other
spheres of music At
15 he was organist
at St. Paul’s, Bal-
larat, and in early
manhood lifted a
couple of big prizes
for composition at
the first Melbourne
Exhibition. lie has also done well as an
orchestral conductor, scoring his biggest hit
with the Lady Northcote musicians in con-
junction with his Melbourne choir. Bailey,
pictured here by Richards, of Ballarat, comes
from Ireland, where his father was a
notable organist.
With a great effort the Education Depart-
ment has managed to secure as a dental clinic
the building, in its own Domain, used during
the war as a dentistry hospital for Billjims.
late got in only just in time. It was to be
made a mess-room and lounge for permanent
military officers.
Looking more cheerful than he has done
of late, Henry Hayseed is down for the
Show, and Mrs. and Miss H. have come with
him. With his party in the Federal House
and the court that is being paid him in con-
nection with the coming State election,
Henry finds that his old hat is a tight fit.
And talking about millinery, Hill, M.H.R.,
his chief champion, says in so many words
that everybody is now taking off his hat to
Henry. But, after all, that isn’t much of
an advance ; Bent took his off ■ to Henry’s
cow.
Gone to more peaceful scenes, Ellen Mul-
cahy, who fought a strenuous Federal elec-
tion against Dr. Maloney. She had split
from official Labor at the time, and the local
flower of chivalry gave her a bad time at her
meetings. Her death is regretted by many
who loved her for her Irish pluck.
Adelaide interests:—
Show week and town overflowing with country
people who look forward to a splendid season.
Shows and hotels are crowded and shopkeepers
beaming. Sassiety was thrilled when The Elk, a
newly-acquired horse ridden and owned by genthelp
Capt. Somerset, won the Maiden Hunters’ event.
His Ex. speaks as an expert on cattle-breeding, and
some of the breeders winced at his references to
“perfectly horrible’’ specimens he had seen lately.
At the Port Adelaide Itaces popular “Snowy”
Oowan and Mrs. Ernest Rischbeith received many
congratulations on their approaching marriage. A
highly decorative couple, Jean Hamer and Ken
Taylor, are also forming a combine. The girl has
just come home after touring America with her
youthful mother.
Dorothy Oldham and Arnold Knapman were mar-
ried at St. Peter’s, Glenelg, one evening last week.
A large crowd of young people saw them through
and afterwards danced until midnight at the Pier
Hotel.
Passed out on Wednesday, after a long illness, the
wife of polo-player Frank Downer. She was the
sister of Chief Justice Murray, and, as Lottie Murray,
was one of the most popular girls of her set.
Liberal Club, Limited, is being floated, with A; J.
McLachlan as chairman, and various party leaders
on the directorate.. The idea is to raise £lO,OOO
in £1 shares, and rebuild the old two-storey pre-
mises on North Terrace. A hall to seat 250 will be
used for meetings, and as a dining-room between
times; there will be dub-rooms in the basement,
and five upper storeys, which, being in the heart
of .ho doetors’-chambers quarter, are expected to
let readily. The Liberal Union has a lease of the
ground floor in advance.
Minnie Love moves on from Adelaide to Perth
this week, and thereafter fades off the map of this
continent. She came to Australia for weeks and
has stayed for years—a pleasing circumstance except
when! she was intoning Yankee sob-stuff such as
“The Broken Doll,” but an artist always. Of course
she proposes to return—they all do.
It. rarely happens that the marriage of
an amateur theatrical identity is ljept so
cflurt as was Josephine Samuell’s four
months ago. Josephine, who has been teach-
ing elocution and stage-business to 'Mel-
bourne girls and boys for many a day, is
liuw Mrs. Sanderson in private. Her hus-
band, who brings her a bright little stepson,
was chief engineer of the Coolgardie until
the vessel changed owners, and is now con-
cerned with an engineering business ashore.
Another Hobart maiden linked up with a
sailor the other day in Sydney. The bride
was Marguerite Brent, and the ’groom Lieut,
usher, of the Australia. The dashing Cap-
tain Cumberlodge, his wife • and daughter
were present, and dapper Commodore
Dumaresq gave the lady away.
Apropos a noth in last “Chatter”:—
The Diggers who many times heard Mrs. Hogg
sing at hospital concerts in England during the
long weary years of the war would indeed be sur-
prised to learn that this lady had lost her voice 10
years ago. When less than a year ago it became
know n that this clever amateur singer was suffering
from diphtheria her friends were much concerned.
They are glad now to be able to congratulate her
ou her complete recovery.
Mfiry Laing Measbn is back after a strenu-
ous 12 months in “the East,” managing
Frederic Shipman’s concert tour. The party
visited every city in India and had a great
tune with rajahs and other potentates.
Josie Westaway selected a husband from 24
who offered themselves in the course of a
strenuous week or so.- Mary, who out-
wardly is mild-mannered, was so busy bully-
ing niggers in her effort to get the company
round, that she didn’t have much time for
anything else. But she reckons the tour was
worth all the work.
Daiky Kennedy and her Moiseiwitseh
played farewell to Melbourne last Satur-
day afternoon in a programme that began
with Grieg and ended with the Ivreutzer
Sonata. Garbed uneventfully in a sombre
short-sleeved frock that looked rather cold
and early for. the weather and time o’ day.
Daisy was winsome as usual, but the con-
troversy about her stand on the platform
raged as before. No elderly student of deport-
ment fojr ladies will approve of one standing
m the least like a man who has his hack
to the fire and his hands in his pockets.
Evelyn Seotney did it when she warbled,
and Mrs. Moiseywitscli has the same suffra-
gettish pose when she violins. Her foot is
on her native boards, and her name is Daisy.
When s : he bows from the neck instead of
from the waist her name is duck, and it
suits her very well.
Mrs. Hubert Eisdell, who is known profes-
sionally as Kitty Parker, makes a poor move
in announcing herself as “the London pian-
iste.” Much more will now be expected by
-critical Melbourne audiences than if she had
thrown even a line of recognition to Thomp-
son, of the University Con., who tutored her.
The best of her instruction in London, too,
came from another Australian, Percy
Grainger.
A. H. Fullwood is having his first Mel-
bourne show at the Fine Art Society’s Gal-
lery on the 28t ; h.
Lee White airs a vivid procession of gowns
tl , lO Livoli’s new show. The perfection
of the .star’s feet and ankles probably
accounts for her craze for abbreviated petti-
coats, which seem too frivolous for her
Junoesque proportions. The generous figure
gets more justice in a draped skirt of
primrose-colored satin, with a pointed cuirass
of shimmering blue beads. An ostrich
featlier-boa effect in green and yellow is
flown from the left '.shoulder-blade, and an
Indian squaw halo of green and yellow
feathers triumphantly encircles her head
and plays peep-bo over the right shoul-
der. The total effect is fine. A
froth of green silk, scalloped deeply and
fringed, looks like a Spring cabbage. In
another act the lady gets a moth-like effect
in mauve chiffon velvet. The spreading
overdress, edged with ostrich feather fringe
half a yard wide, being caught to the wrists,
flaps like wings. A shimmery white dress
and lace insertion, with a cherry-colored
toque, makes good copy for the ambitious
gallery girl; and Miss Toorak may get an
idea from a floating cherry-colored tea-gown.
In connection with the International Yacht
Race, when the American sloop Resolute beat
Linton’s Shamrock, one of the most remark-
able performances is credited to an Austra-
lian, Frank White, who “did” the races for
the great Inter-
national News Ser-
vice, sending a
running story to over
a thousand papers
by wireless from a
seaplane. W h i t e
learned his yachting
three decades ago
among the fishermen
at . his birthplace.
Gool w a, at the
mouth of the Mur-
ray. Like a num-
ber of other success-
ful Croweaters, he
started life as a
teacher in the South
, Aus. Edacation
Dept.; and like
scores of other
teachers, he sent Abo. and otlier pars, to
I'iie Bulletin. Thus he drifted into jour-
nalism, and lias since navigated on the Inky
Way in five continents. For the past li)
years he has been a feature-writer and staff
correspondent for some of the biggest news-
paper interests on both sides of the Atlantic.
These days lie makes his home at the New
York Press Club.
It was bound to come sooner or later.
“I- C. Williamson ct Gie—modes et robes” is
the new sign that goes up outside Iler
Majesty’s Theatre in this city. The cos-
tumes in the later revues must have
brought the firm a flood of orders from the
wealthy women who never have anything to
wear. So from now on “high-class, exclusive
materials and Parisian novelties, selected
from the world’s fashion centres,” will be
on view in the windows of the specially-
built shops adjoining the dress-circle entrance,
and what is not displayed outside will doubt-
less be given a on the stage. Well,
business is business, and there should be a
lot of money in the newest move. “My
Lady’s Dress” is a show that runs for ever.
Maggie Dickinson, with S.vd Yates in
attendance, halved a box’ with mamma and
Flossie Wenman at the opening of “The
Gondoliers” at Her Majesty’s on Saturday
night. Mamma’s severe black and Flossie’s
inconspicuous trimmings offered a contrast
to Maggie, who wore a smart jazz -cap and a
decollete frock that tried to look ample with
the help of black shoulder-straps. On the
stage Ethel Morrison, who was temporarily
winded by a fall in the first act, brought all
glasses ipto play with her vast costume of
yellow silk, and the lavender features of
Strella Wilson’s close-waisted garment also
invited inspection. The most glorious of
the men was Villiers Arnold, who, as .Luiz,
assumed his sudden royalty in decorative
white and a crown made to accommodate a
bad case of swollen head.
Freda Sternberg has been selected by
Carlyle Smythe to pilot Conan Doyle through
his lecture tour of Australia and Maoriland.
Freda is just back from New York and has
all the the latest tips on publicity work.
She had an assured career as a bacteriologist,
but preferred the Inky to the Germy Way.
Her waggon has been hitched to other stars,
including Melba.
Direetor-of-Education Tate is an enthusi-
astic gardener. He bolts home from his
office, dons dungarees, seizes a shovel and
belts in. His flower garden is all right; but
his vegetables are the wonder of Kew. To see
the Shakspearean enthusiast gazing reveren-
tially at a mammoth pumpkin is a poem
in itself. When he visited England, and the
present Tennyson showed him around his
garden, the schoolmaster quoted sheaves of
poetry written by Alfred on the ancestors of
the flowers under view. The poet’s descen-
dant was surprised to find how much there
was in the old garden. And he w r as kind
enough not to beg his visitor to stop quoting.


K
mmm
iHimnii
m
Mill
r
as
W
II
m
Ills
in
i
H
1
jgjl
a
in
A
J
(I
s
H EINZE - SPRINGFIELD
ELECTRIC STARTING
& LIGHTING SYSTEM
FOR CARS
It Fits underthenood
I
=9
f
mit
mu
•k
V
111
C
L
( fe
JUOII
You’ll add materially to the enjoyment of your Ford Car if
you instal a
HEINZE-SPRINGFIELtt
Electric Starling and Lighting System
You can start your car instantly, by the pressure of your finger.
The summer will soon be here, and you won t feel like standing in the
hot sun cranking up every time you have to start your car.
Besides the labor of cranking, a “dead” engine in heavy traffic may
mean a serious accident if you cannot get your car under way promptly.
A Heinze-Springfield Electric Starter will turn your engine over immediately you switch on the power. It saves petrol.
Driving on summer nights is much more enjoyable with electric lights.
The installation of a Heinze-Springfield Electric Starting and Lighting System means more all-round car comfort.
It involves no alterations to your car. The entire system fits under the hood. It occupies very little space and does not
interfere with the accessibility of the motor.
Bolted into place in a few hours, it becomes part of the motor.
If you cannot call and see the device, let us send you illustrated folders.
LARKE, HOSKINS & CO. LTD.,
Sole Agents for
New South Wales,
237-239 CastlereagH Street, SYDNEY.
Phone : City 3028


Under
Royal
Warrant
CHAMPAGNE
CMdlcifek
maiiis
CHAMPAGNE
t-fartesHridskd*
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Oriental
Hotel
is accepted as Vic-
toria’s greatest
achievement in fashion-
able hotel service. It
is distinguished by its
sumptuous appoint-
ments, service and
environment, and offers
the tourist altogether
delightful accommoda-
tion.
Collins St. Melbourne.
mm
wmrn i
Your Race Gowns
La, la! Melbourne Cup, oh, so near, and
not a gown has madame ordered yet!
But there is Shave!
Even without one fitting can Shave pro-
duce adorable frocks or tailor-suits that
will demand admiration.
Yes, it will be advisable to write to
Shave at once, lest madame lose this
opportunity to excel herself.
SHAVE'
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Centreway,
Melbourne.
Ti
k J«67O
Vanity Fair
Silk Gloves are
made with expert
skill and precision and add
the last touch of refinement
to the toilet of a dainty
woman. A guarantee goes
with them which ensures
longer wear and the greatest
measure , of satisfactory
service.
Ask your draper for Vanity
Fair Silk Gloves—the gloves
of charm and distinction.
He should have them. „„ 0A
VF3O
~Qmity r fair
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
David
Jones
Cataloger.
The Munro Fergusons have been Sydney’s
guests this past week. Everybody has been
farewelling the genial Sir Ronald and his
gracious lady, and by now they have enough
caskets in .stock to set up an under-
taker’s parlor. All the States have handed
them illuminated addresses reposing in nests
of beautifully-polished Australian wood.
Sydney’s contribution was of Australian
cypress, holding a white doe-skin covered
album of views that Lady Melon carried
with her from the Citizens’ Farewell at the
flown Hall; and Sir Ronald bore off a
citizens’ address in polished blue-gum. Pre-
mier Storey and Mayor Fitzgerald were
spokesmen for a crowded Town Hall, but at
cheering time the big gathering spoke for
itself; and two little war-orphans, Dorothy
•Tones and Joyce Teesdale, handed over the
floral offerings of the Sailors and Soldiers’
Mothers, Wives and Widows’ Association.
The women assistant-teachers raked up a
bit of. the rise the Department is always
promising them, threw it in their last year’s
hat, and handed over a specially-bound Henry
Kendall. Still another address thundered
its illuminated phrases at them when the
Anglican Synod waylaid the pair in the
Mayors room. And as the C.-G. set off
for Tasmania the Highland Society’s Pipe
Hand gave him a skirling farewell, having
refreshed itself by the wayside for the long-
long wail.
It is a wonder that a turnstile hasn’t been
erected these two years past at the sacred
portals of Government House. Even the acres
of pasteboard issued by the Red Cross for the
farewell reception to Lady Helen last week
bore the stern injunction: “Must be shown
at door.
The party was a dreadful affair. It
started with hundreds of Red Cross workers
and V.A.D. s, in their white, huddling together
like sheep for shelter from the biting blast;
lor, in spite of the withering wind and the
spatters of rain that swept the avenue, the
doors of Government House remained firmly
shut till the tick of half-past 8, when the
business was timed to begin. It was a patient
crowd that didn’t object to the long, slow
crush between the doorstep and the entrance
to the ballroom, where Lady Helen and Dame
Margaret, supported by J. O. Fairfax,
bestowed benevolent handshakes on the faith-
ful. Lady Munro Ferguson - accompanied
her length of extended white kid with a
kindly smile, but her State Ex. looked as
though she were visioning some event in
Newfoundland, or were a fragment of the
icefields that Jean Ingelow had in mind when
she wrote that “the bergs begin to bend their
heads. ”
The Red Cross Executive did so want to
keep down expenses. The catering had cost
them many an anxious thought. They had
declared that one shilling and ninepence
each guest was their limit. Judging by
the look of the buffet they must have saved
the shilling; and when the caterer’s waggon
bowled up for the empties, it’s a wonder that
the guests didn’t absent-mindedly climb
aboard. Th.e Munro-Ferguson lady, who is
famous for the lavishness of her buffets and
the comfort with which she surrounds her
guests, must have smiled her rather tired,
inscrutable smile at the vision of the multi-
tude sustaining themselves with lukewarm
tea and violent-colored cakes at unsteady-
looking tables on the wind-swept lawn.
The Royal Yacht Squadron’s clubhouse
and grounds were the most festive bit of the
harbor-gide on Saturday afternoon. Bunt-
ing flew everywhere between the green of
the grass and the misty blue of the sky, and
the nice old garden put forth its roses and
its. sweetness for the admiration of others
beside the sociable old gentlemen who are
the club’s most frequent callers. At half-
past 2, when a cream-tailored Dame Mar-
garet, squired by Dugald Thomson and
Russell Sinclair, declared the fete for the
North Sydney Soldiers’ Memorial open, the
stallholders were already selling out as
quickly as their hands could tie up the par-
cels; and before the Lamb was separated
from the presentation daffodils, the astonish-
ing-looking fortune-teller had promised every
pretty thing under 30 at least two husbands,
and every woman over 40 a happy widow-
hood. There was jazzing on the wide veran-
dahs of the clubhouse, and Reginald Joyce,
of Neutral Bay, tantalised the sharks the
whole afternoon by refusing to fall off the
surf-board on which he rode the waves. Mrs.
Cecil Hordern, Mrs. G. S. Littlejohn and
Mrs. T. Buckle were secretaries and mainly
responsible for the £l5OO that Russell Sin-
clair tucked into the treasury to keep the
£3400 already there company.'
At the opening of the Society of Artists’
show on Saturday legs were lost to view in
the waves of humanity that vainly tried to
pound a way to the pictures. Nearly every-
body who paints anu many who write were
there; and persistent buyers like Dr. Abbott
and Arthur Allen, though the Norton Grim-
wades, who often combine the A.J.C. and
the buying of a picture or two, hadn’t
arrived in time. Longs|afi swapped Prince
stories with Arthur Adams; Julian Ashton
and son Howard talked to Mrs. Waller
Roberts, wearing her hair dressed low on her
neck and a Breton sailor hat. Olive Crane,
flushed with success, w r as supported by
flapper-artist Myrtle Innes in apple-green
voilb, white organdie ruffles and a wide
georgette scarf; and the Lane Mullenses, and
the Thomas Hugheses. The Norman Lindsay
pictures drew like a magnet, and if ever he
decides to give up art the Taits will find a
positive gold-mine in him as a wardrobe mis-
tress The Society can congratulate itself on
the clever stage-management of Miss Skewes,
who is running the Exhibition. Before the
first hour of the opening had passed over
£lOOO worth had been sold, one enthusiastic
buyer being a fortnight-old bride who is
furnishing the walls of her home with the
money made by the fairy-like embroideries
of her own hands.
John Long.‘ftaff was welcomed on Friday
night in the blue haze of tobacco smoke by the
(mostly) young men of the Australian Arts
Club. Though John himself still has a lot
of canvas to cover, Art has grown golden
wings since the days when “The Sirens,” with
its exhausted swimmer, hag faces and terrible
sea-depths, first held picture-gazers in Mel-
bourne’s National Gallery. Streeton’s Cre-
morne is now piled with flats; but in the
flats live the prosperous buyers that Streeton
and Longstaff could only dream about in
their young days. Longstaff and the other
eider brothers of paint, who have returned in
middle-age, wear a slightly apprehensive look
when moving among their prosperous younger
colleagues; what they feel like when moving
among the Cremorne flats defies analysis.
I)oiothy Brunton and Ivy Shilling arrived
on Sunday night. They are slimmer than
when they left—particularly Dorothy—and
they attribute it to the English food. The
1' iini has brought Dorothy back primarily
to star in “Baby Bunting,” the show that
impelled London to take her to its eclectic
heart. Ivy is booked by the Mclntosh man-
agement—of course as a dancer.
Dot Brunton and Ivy Shilling were a com-
plete entertainment committee in themselves
on the Orsova’s trip across. Thev awarded
the prizes at the fancy-dress balls,' and were
generally out to do the agreeable. Their
evemng frocks consisted of no backs, very
little iionts, and nothing’ below the knees,
according to the latest . London and Paris
decree-—almost a decree absolute in the
matter of materials these days.
Here is Judith Fletcher’s picture of John
livine Hunter, who at 23 has been appointed
Associate-Professor of Anatomy in Sydnev
University. Ilis career has been full of
exclamation marks.
In his third year lie
was coaching fellows
in their fourth; in
his fourth he was
doing the same thing
to fifths; and often
he has been known
to offer such sugges-
tions that the lec-
tur i n g professor
arose and called him
blessed. Every year
of his medical course
has been marked
with medals an d
scholarships. Th e
Haswell prize for
botany, the John
Harris scholarship
fo r anatomy an d
physiology, the (laird scholarship, and finally
tliG Uni. medal, 1 first-class honors, the Hinder
memorial prize for clinical surgery, and Dr.
Sandes’s prize for a clinical essay—he has
taken them all in his stride. He is an old
Fort-street boy, and for all his successes
doesn’t take an O.S. in hats.
The swank marriage contract of last week
was between Mollie(Mary Graham)Lloyd and
Lt.-Colonel Bertie Stacey. D. 5.0., an ori-
ginal Anzac of the 4th Battalion. Bertie’s
best man was Major Stack, of the A A M C •
groomsman Captain Withey had done his bit
with the Army .Medical, and second-grooms-
man Don Moore was one of the youngest
colonels of the A.I.F. Mollie’s vows issued
from the simple beauty of ivory satin, train-
less, but carrying georgette drapings at the
side, and her tulle veil was followed by
Madge Sly, Muriel Bowman and Mary Hill,
all looking like primroses de luxe in satin
and georgette. Padre Micklem and a strong
reinforcement of choristers set the Voice
breathing o'er Eden in honeyed measure;
and Bertie and Mollie became one in the
shadow of the handsome stained-glass win-
dow with which the Lloyd family has
enriched St. James’s. Kurrahgein, the home
of Mollie’s aunt, Miss Williams—and
Mollie’s home, too, for some time past—
received the wedding guests.
Lt.-Colonel Bertie is of the Mudgee
Staceys, and Mollie is grand-daughter of two
old and distinguished colonists: on the male
side of George Alfred Lloyd, who was Trea-
surer under Henry Parkes; on the mother’s
side of John Williams, many years Crown
Solicitor, one time in partnership Avith
George Robert Nicholls, a member of the
first Responsible Government. Colonel
Stacey is v a member of the six-and-
eight profession, and is a demon at the tennis
nets. Mollie herself possesses a subtle ser-
vice and a powerful return. The night after
the wedding the best man. the two grooms-
men and the Spring-Song bridesmaids had a
mght-out at the Wentworth.
Tasman Lovell’s lectures on psychology
are touching every point of Sydney’s com-
pass. The genius Avho delivers them is the
first tenant of the new Psychology Chair at
Sydney University
endowed b y the
McCaughey be-
quest. He started
life as a teacher at
Fort-street, b u t
philosophy and the
languages became
wedded in his brain-
cell s, and having
obtained his M.A.
and the Woolley tra-
velling scholarship
in 1907, Germany
claimed him as a
st u dent for two
years; then, after
ripping, his Ph.l).
from Jena, he re-
turned to Australia,
and since 1910 the
University has taken possession of him. The
Doctor now expounds his pet subject to
nearly 400 students. He is the first Profes-
sor of Psychology in Australia. The photo
is by Judith Fletcher.
Doctor Elsie Dalyell, who dropped into
Sydney the other day from Vienna and goes
back there in a few days’ time for another
year of research work, picked at least oue
bone that had nothing to do with human
anatomy during her stay, and that was at
the luncheon given in her honor by 60 of her
fellow grads at Farmer’s. Servia. Malta and
Salonika were all the better for Dr. Elsie’s
services; and though she modestly disclaims
credit in the matter of anti-serums, she does
confess that of three women who were given
charge of bacteriological laboratories during
the war two were graduates of Sydney Uni.
On a true Spring marning. patterned with
sun and shower, Mrs. Rix Nicholas opened
her show at the Women Painters’ Rooms in
Queen Victoria Markets. The dull grey
walls are now blaziug with color; deep yel-
lows and blues and mauves assail the eye,
and a nervous restlessness seems to pervade
even inanimate objects. One wouldn’t be
surprised if the figures of her dead got up
and walked. There’s a mustard-garbed young-
woman with her arms filled with wattle
bloom who is so aggressive with health that
you know she’s the sort who’d have all her
wages docked the first week for breakages
(if anybody nowadays dared to do any dock-
ing), and in the second would be sacked.
Quite half the exhibition is made up of
French studies and scenes, very graceful,
very true; and through the new works
there is a sense of blowing breeze, of boughy
trees and irrepressible youth. Yet it is in
“The Patient Soul,” the old French peasant
woman who sits watching and listening with
a hopeful hopelessness, the once-bus.v hands
now still, that Mrs. Rix Nicholas most
appeals.
The week in Brisbane:—
Lieut. Flora Sarules, looking like a nice pink-
cheeked colonel, has arrived in Brisbane by the
Northern Rivers route. She was motored to Govern-
ment House, where she spent an hour or two with
the Lieut.-Governor and Mrs. Lennon. Later on
she told her story of Servia in the Centennial Hall.
At the recital given by E. R. B. Jordan’s pupils,
little Doreen Morgan, who could play Titania with-
out make-up, surprised and delighted everybody with
her pianoforte exercises. There is nothing weakly
feminine about the infant’s playing—it is forceful,
brilliant and masculine. Next month the versatile
little lady gives a song recital. Her voice is a
sweet light soprano.
Roy Purves, who has been manager of the Tivoli
for several years, goes to Sydney shortly. He has
been made general-manager of the Paramount Picture
theatres and will have to keep his eye on seven
houses to begin with.
Five employees of Fenwick and Co. drew the first
prize in the last Golden Casket. Next day they
called up the newspaper offices and begged that
something should be done to stop the rain of begging
letters. Australia is full of sundowners who have
taken postal courses.
A returned tripper tells of a few old
fnends ot ours seen in New York. “Frank
Coffee has fruited forth as an author in
loity Years in the Pacific’—reminiscences
and reviews ot his travels, very wittily and
entertainingly told. Ola Humphrey, with her
new Broadwood husband at the Biltmore
t where it costs about a hundred dollars to
stand for fave minutes on the mat), gorgeously
gowned and jewelled, was looking forward
to a trip to Japan next month. Ola’s middle
name is Luck, for the British Government
hammered two million dollars out of her late
Prince Hassan’s estate for her. For two
million dollars yo u may stay a month at the
Bitmore And another tripper writes:
Mane Nareile is looking finely and singing
to match. I heard her and her two daughters
ni K ll ll u P r T ptu coucert at the Canadian
Wub. Kit a has a very sweet voice, high and
true, while Kathleen is an uncommon
piamste. Kathleen sailed for England on a
few months visit some days ago. Mabel
laliaterro, whom you will recollect, as leading
girl with the Willie Collier Co. visiting Svif
ney years a g. oj put 0 n a clever and charming
sketch of her own at New Jersey hist night
and I managed to be present, but got a shock
when the British soldier who came on the
stage was soundly hissed. Probably because
the rate of exchange is so high! ' But, all
jokes aside, the Americans don’t love us as
we rub it into them for not signing the I‘eace
Treaty. The Shipmans are here busy as bees
getting films for India.”
Mary Grant, of Queensland, is another who
carries a note from the Princeling next her
camisole ribbons. 11.R.H. sent her one of
his photos, too. (What a press agent that
young man would mhke!) Mary is receiving
some of the pickings that fall to the Royal
favorite. She will view Sydney, tin l A.J.C.
meeting and the Australia under the wing of
the Falkiners in the next few weeks, and
then go on to Melbourne and the Cup.
Miss Baverstock, sister-in-law to pen-
woman Florence, has arrived by the Orsova
and has a good word to say for Sydney’s
shopgirls and waitresses. Their friendly
and obliging ways make her gasp: the girls
of London-town fling things at you with a
take-it-or-leave-it air that is understandable
when one is told that in the whole of Bourne-
mouth recently there wasn’t such a thing as
a reel of Coats’s cotton even at lOjd. If you
don’t make up your inind on the instant, a
hand is liable to come over your shoulder
and snatch the bargain from under your
nose. Shortage is everywhere, and all the
goods are literally in the shop windows, the
shelves, even in such places as Selfridge’s
and Jay’s, being half-empty. London has the
suit-case habit. So great is the rush for
luncheon at the restaurants, yet so lofty
the prices, that thousands of professional
and business men carry a snack and peck a
bit in their offices. The chintz-hung Tivoli
the other night looked like a dainty dream to
the lady after London theatres, which have
not had a lick of paint nor new floor-
coverings since pre-war days. The H.C.L
is, of course, hitting middle-class families
hardest, and they all talk of Australia as
the promised land, in spite of a mild land-
boom in many parts of England, owing to
large estates being cut up to avoid post-war
taxes. Land-agents and lino, manufacturers
will provide the new crop of Cold Country
aristos.
Everybody is talking about the group of
pretty girls who, as the aviators ot “Going
I p,” carried off the prize at the Glaciarium’s
Swan-song Carnival. Mrs. F. Pfeiffer was
responsible for selecting the team —which was
led by Enid James —and for arranging the
effects and designing the costumes. The
clever lady carried off the prize last year,
too, with her team of dainty “Ducks.”
The Sydney High School Old Boys, most
of them too absurdly young to be old, had
their annual hop at Sargent's (Market-street)
on Saturday, after a break of five years,
due to some slight disturbance in Europe.
The weight of intellect was a strain on
the floor, which during the afternoon had
supported two wedding parties. However,
it stood the test, and the small hours of the
Sabbath found the couples wishing it had
taken a fortnight instead of six days to
complete this planet.
Mrs. Lake, wife of the immaculately-
groomed Hamilton Lake, died at Manly last
week. She was a Cooper, one of the big
N. S. Wales squatting family whose pre-
sent head is Pope Cooper, Chief Justice of
Queensland. The family at one time owned
several properties about Goulburn which are
now held by Osbornes.
The Duke of Connaught, who has just
got engaged to the 50-year-old widow of the
late Earl of Essex, looks about the age of
his prospective bride, but is, in fact, 70. He
is by no means well off as royalties go, but
she is rich even for an American, having
inherited most of the money of her father.
Beach Grant, of New York. She is bright
and clever, and led the Anglo-American set
in Edward Vll.’s day.
Portia Geach drops a line from New York,
where she has set up a studio and is busy
on orders for two large mural decorations.


Qlie Grandeur of Ibach
Olic Majesty oGL iszL
m
■s#.
\
THE grandeur of Bach, the majesty
of Liszt—all the ineffable, individual
charm of each of the world’s greatest
tone-poets—is perfectly revealed with a
Beale Player-Piano.
The stupendous technical difficulties of
the masters’ writings cease to be a tax on
one’s attention. Playing becomes instinc-
tive and the pleasure of interpretation
takes on a new delight.
Interpretive control is the reason for
Beale superiority.
The new models recently perfected are
beautiful examples of what an ideal piano
should be. The case work embraces
entirely new designs—whilst the interior
has also been improved structurally.
Attention is specially directed to the new
Home Grand—an instrument of infinite
capacity for artistic expression. It has
been expressly made for the moderate
sized room in those homes where only a
grand piano can give the desired effect.
The better musician you are the more you 'will appreciate the Tleale
BRANCHES—N.S.W.: Bathurst, Orange, Lis-
. more, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga.
VICTORIA : Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs.
TAS.:Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston
S. AUSTRALIA : John Evans Ltd., Adelaide.
W AUSTRALIA :J.A.Thompson Co. Ltd., Perth.
Showrooms :
333 George Street, Sydney
Factories :
41-47 Trafalgar Street, Annandale
.BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland)
LIMITED
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, 1 owns-
ville, Mackay and Cairns.
BEALE
AND COMPANY LTD.


jWa*l
he largest selling
quality pencil in
the woxld
ENUS
PENCILS
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
artists,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
“There’s Money
in the Pen.”
If you wish to fol-
low a lucrative, re-
fined and pleasant
occupation—
Learn to Draw.
If you wish to
amuse your friends
and afford yourself
endless pleasure—
Learn to Draw.
#
9
tL,
Q
Learn
to
Draw
by
Mail.
The Harry J. Weston School of Drawing is
based on the actual methods and experience
of one of Australia’s most successful com-
mercial artists. It cuts out the drudgery,
and is full of interest from the first lesson.
It teaches how to DRAW, not merely to
COPY. Many pupils liave more than paid
for their course before it was completed by
the sale of their own work.
Send three stamps to cover postage, and we
will forward you our illustrated booklet,
“There’s Money in the Pen.” It tells you
all about the original “Weston Method,”
fees, etc.
The Harry J. Weston Postal
School of Drawing,
6 Union House, corner George and
Grosvenor Streets, SYDNEY.
BOND’S TRIPLEWEAR HOSE.
Made in Australia.
AN IDEAIj HOSE,
combining: wonderful -wear with beautiful
appearance.
Retail Selling Price, 12/11 per pair.
Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariif from 16/- per day, or from
Four Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletins! takes your fancy, write to the
Manage r, who will quote you price for it.
m
99
The “KEMP.
A Poley Saddle to Sit
a Buck i .
The Rider feels perfectly at home in this
saddle. The pads are set very high up,
almost level with the head of saddle and
along the rider’s thighs. Professor Kemp
has used this .saddle for many years in his
Buckjumping Show with great success.
The seat and skirts are combined in one
piece of long-wearing Kip Leather, which
leather is used throughout, and the tree
our best “Fouright.” The fittings are a
special Ivemp-pattern folded girth, bevelled
leathers and solid nickel stirrups.
£l3lO/6
Freight Paid for Cash with Order to any
Port or Railway Station In N.S. Wales.
HORSEHAIR SADDLE-CLOTHS
WRITE
FOR
CATALOG.
SORE BACKS INSURED AGAINST.
MADE OF HAIR COVERED WITH FELT, 35/- POSTED.
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.
393 GEORGE. STREET, SYDNEY.
Bostock’s Shoe
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
Tour footwear is now much more expensive than ever before —
and prices are undoubtedly going still higher. It is therefore
more than ever desirable that you get the longest possible wear
out of your shoes. You can do this by using Bostock’s Dress-
mgs, which PRESERVE leather, in addition to giving a
brilliant polish.
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
IN BOTTLES AND TUBES.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd.,
Sydney.
Tenders.
THE RAVENSWOOD DEEP
MINES LIMITED.
(In Liquidation.)
Ravenswood, Queensland.
ri TENDERS ARE INVITED for the pur-
-1- chase, in one lot, of the whole of the
Machinery, Plant and Buildings. Cata-
logues and conditions of Tendering obtain-
able on application to the undersigned.
TENDERS CLOSE on TUESDAY,
TWENTY-EIGHTH 'day of SEPTEMBER,
1920, at the office of
A. LAURENCE WILSON,
Mining Engineer,
Ravenswood, Queensland.
Missing: Friends.
ROBERT HUNTER—Deceased.
•yyILL any person knowing anything of the where-
abouts of MISS HUNTER, a sister of the
above-named, formerly of County Tyrone, Ireland,
who is stated to have married a Mr. Beaty and to
have been residing in Australia, please communicate
with the LOCAL DEPUTY PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Christchurch, New Zealand.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
87 H pittSt!! f Sydney PfOVidCAtSodlty
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £41,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
For Sale.
Approximately 25,000 tons of Bat-
tery Sands and Slimes, ranging in value
rom 3 A to 7 dwt. gold per ton —the lower
value being free, the remainder more or less
icid.
Full particulars from
A. C. CHAPPEL,
Cyanide Works,
Peak Hill, N. S. Wales.
The World’s Two Leading Marine and
Stationary Crude Oil Engines.
m
i ■
. mt
I fm
, ... ... .
Marine Type (Single and Double Cylinder).
G to 35 Horse-power.
For Yachts, Launches and Fishing Boats where light weight, quick starting, easy
running and, last but not least, remarkable low running costs are of importance.
The “AMIS.
Stocks—6. 10.15 and 20 H.P.
The Wonderful Lightweight, Heavy-duty Crude
Oil Engine. Stationary and Marine Types.
Powers —0 to 35 H.P.
Stationary Type.
The Famous “SKANDIA”
Crude Oil Engine, from 40 to 750 H.P.
Stationary and Marine Types.
Suppliers of High-Grade
Lubricating & Fuel Oils.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON
Engineering Department,
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany .
tt T.B.’YY.: Don’t know ourselves wliat
“Urunga” means; but somebody else may
Nalla: “Overlanders” sounds too much like a
series of barks. ... .Bill the G.: Its. struggles to be
humorous are too apparent.... Dolly Gray: We
should love to be nursed by you; but you can’t
wr.tc for us. . . .Shipper: The method is unsuitable.
. ... ’H.E.C.: lou take far too long to reach the
point in the 12th verse Enterprise: There’s a
buzzing in the head before even the first dreadful
sentence is finished. And when you’re talking in
praise of Australia why not use Australian, instead
of Yankee slang?:.. .E.H.R.G.: Not so much as
the beginning of a new thought in “Call of the
Hush”. . . .D. 8.: Commonplace. . . .F.F.: “Bush Phi-
losopher” has an attractive point here and there;
but it is very rough axe-work H.Y.T.: Too much
like a message in Morse O.B.: Well, perhaps
they deserve it; they certainly deserve something:—
J.N.Mc.: Miles too long this time. You digress
overmuch....I.A.B.: It’s matter for a provincial
print. . . . A.lv.: Try one of the sporting papers....
Cotton Waste: But we don’t insist on all matter
being typed. Clean, well-spaced script is always
miles better than typed stuff with the lines jambed
together. Too many old friends among your offerings.
.... Woolooware: Have mercy on our eyes! Beg
or borrow some ink and write it out again....
G.W.F.: That’s a cheerful ditty; but how do the
worms dine in “regal state”?... .D.Q.: Not enough
there C.C.K.: The verse follows the commonplace
line, with occasional staggering effects of some dis-
tinction P.B.P.: The splendid lift in the last
stanza of “Home” should not be allowed to perish:
Then let each home be one of love
As fair as the blue skies above;
From morn ’till night, this be our theme—
I m sure the world would fair seem.
. ...R.W.F.: Very rough... .R.R.G.: Doesn’t strike
us I.G.G.: Sad sort of humor E.M.L.: No
use.. ..Jack B.: “Agitator” fails Bobby D.:
Facile and futile. .. .A.B.M.: A sonnet has to be a
°t better than that. .. .0.0: Nothing in it.
1876: You had a theme, but you made nothing of
it.... W.C.K.: Don’t like “Mountains.”.., .A.A.P.:
The sonnet isn’t more than fair; and the subject is
only a little true... .Telby: The matter is too
slight, too many worn phrases are repeated, and some
lines are out of scansion—notably the last one of
Dawes Point.” Flicker: How can you rhyme
“warm” and “sworn”? Wee Robbie: Not nearly.
....Bruno: Said too often before. .. .Anna S.: Not
so far away Percy S.: A long, detailed list of
moie or less arbitrary opinions does not constitute
a good criticism, even if many of the guesses are
good ones. Have no idea what the judges said or
whether they said anything at all B.L.L.: Any
English grammar will give you the ordinary rules
of prosody, but only practice and the reading’
of the best verse will enable you to do much
with those rules. When, you can use and!
forget them you will have made a start. .. .E.A.A.:
A thin little idea strung out into nothingness....
J.A.A.: “How it was Done” has to go back
E.B.P.: “Shrewd” fails P.B.S.: The verse is
only fair in manner and the thought has all been
well worked before... . J.A.F.: Yarn goes heavilv. . . .
A.McP.: Not enough in the school yarn George
P.: A very lame parody, which wouldn’t have been
worth while if it had been a good one. . . ..J.D.
(Ivatoomba) : The metre wobbles and flounders badly.
Tpr. H.S.: Not enough thrill. .. .C.N.B.: Don’t
like it any better Harold P.: Verse not bad, but
not quite good enough J. J.: Nothing at all in
“Farewell.” Strong S.: “Fishing” is very lumpy.
E.McC. : On the sample submitted it would
probably take you several lifetimes to master the
game. . . .R.O.L.: Doesn’t get near Gladys P.:
“Wind” doesn’t blow with any freshness Barwon:
Very crude. .. .L.J.M.: You don’t get the feeling...
S.B.E.: It’s not much of a first attempt. Don’t
try blank verse, which you don’t understand
II.T. (Yenda) : The verse more than the subject bars
it.... Melville E.: Not well enough done. . . . J.T.
(Bowral) : They won’t do R.J.A.: Poor verse ;
thin ideas. .. .Sadie U.: You stood on a mountain
ai.d now you wish you were back. Only that in
lumpy verse!.... Winifred M.: Same old theme....
Chick S.: The drovers are not very thrilling....
C.M.G.: Verse has to be a lot better than samples
submitted.... Ella N.: Most girls of sixteen can do
as well and droves of them can do better Ginger-
A good way from the goal....Mag: “Spring” comes
m an impossible metre... .T.H.R.: That ancient
thing used to be in all the cheap handbooks of
(.reams, magic and other mysteries. . .Efaem: Lament-
able verse.... W.D.B.C.: Wail about drunkenness
caused by toasting the baby at christenings cast out.
R.D.F.: “Adventure” sonnets not up. .. .H.S.T.:
The verse is not very good, but it is better than
the thought it contains.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
C0I1 RESPONDENTS.
Bob F.: That bird builds no nest in this paper.
C.S.G.: Do you aspire to steal Souter’s cat?
E.II.B.: The lady is suffering from misplaced curves.
’... -N.G.S.: That brilliant jest was invented 10
minutes after the first waiter was born....
R.D.E.V.: You’re so liberal with the labels that
your cartoon looks like a world-traveller’s oldest
Saratoga... .Unknown Quantity: There is a point
at which distortion ceases to be humorous and makes
the reader either sigh or curse Harry B.: It’s
an irritating form of wit seldom practised in real
life... .F.L.B.: Why go to all that trouble to be
dull ?. .. .G.C.X.: War-dances on the Art Editor’s
doormat are a waste of time. He is too busy to wit-
ness them. If you wish your virtuous rage to be
noticed, have your haka filmed.... S.B.: Yes, you
will go far—if you keep going. The direction de-
pends on yourself. Now don’t ask us any more
riddles. The Prophesying Department was closed
curing the war L.B.: The young always draw.
aneie are thousands of children doing work as good
Be calm.
IN MEMORY OF THE CHEER-UPS.
These are the women that we feel proud,
xt worked ancl smiled, for their country •
.Nothing can we say of praise too loud,
Though living in reality.
Oh ! could we forget, whose feats of self-sacrifice,
these Cheer-ups, with high and lofty love?
the men they sought to help give advice!
*° class them as God’s own doves?
May our love grow and fortify,
That years and years will tell ;
As ' ° 11 '' little ones will grow, and multiply-,
Of their work they done so well.
°h! then to sing a song, through Australia’s land,
1 hese Cheer-ups we will remember •
No other, so great, a noble band,
May no harm ever come to end her.


Shipping;.
ORIENT LINE,
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-ae-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads an
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding _ sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246, 2, 4, 6 Spring Street,
mo! Sy dae r-
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAIT,INC, OCTOBER 20,
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Hanking, Public Companies, Ac.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane,
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 796,655 10 0
Reserve Fund . . .. .. .. 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager—AV. V. RALSTON
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. £200,000
Directors: HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D.; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 157 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. . . .. 1,496,666
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,646,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking business.
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £562,500
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 600,000
£1,162,500
Uncalled Capital 62,500
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 625,000
£1,850,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 90 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office : 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, etc.
Canad ian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST. AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, October 14.
R.M.S. TAHITI, November 11.
And every 28 days thereafter.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World—the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route-
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can lie seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park. Niagara Falls, etc.
R.M.S. MARAMA, from Wellington, October 5.
R.M.S. TOFUA, from Wellington, November 2.
Connecting Steamers from Sydney Sept. 30, Oct. 28.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
t
!<i: ... w
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C to
Thomas Bucldand. Ksq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The lion. James T. Walker.
Franc B; S. Falkiner, Esq.
General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
351 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
■ HEAD OFFICE
3M o( ltetraKa
SYDNEY. ■
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2802 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor July Ist, 1920 Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
mm
:
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Bondon Branch: 18 Birchin Bane, E.C.
London Bankers— The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank, Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
INTERSTATE STEAMSHIP SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE.
"Tranships at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns,
tCarries Ist, 2nd and 3rd-class passengers.
tCarries Ist and 2nd-class passengers.
SCarries Ist and 3rd-elass passengers.
Huddart ParkerLjM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.IM. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“IjEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street.
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regularly to:
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Byron Bay and the beautiful Tweed River.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TOUR FARES. —Sydney-Brisbane, via
Byron Bay: Ist, £B/3/-; 2nd, £5/13/6. Sydney-
Brisbane, via Grafton: Ist, £B/3/-; 2nd, £5/10/-.
For particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address: Cable Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.” “Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
Eitzroy Estates Limited.
Blaekheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOE:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & 0. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messagei'ies Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners,
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cookto\yn. ~
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


I
I
\V \ H
BILLIARD &SNOOKEI
&
Q
Q
r*
In play they aie resilient faultless.in running —true to an
Far and away superior to any other ball. Unaffected
gle and of perfect balance.
by climatic conditions.
BILLIARD BALLS
&es: l|in l|in. 2in. 2,’in.
17/3 21/- 2 51- 32/6 set
(Postage on One Set—N.S.W., 9d. j Other Btates, 1/2).
SNOOKER BALES
Si2es: lfin. l|in. 2in 2,an.
£6,6- £7/7 1- £ B/8/- £ll/11/-set
(We Pay Carriage on Snooker Balls).
Sole Australas
ian Distributors:
ac
1/
Headquarters— Haymarket, Sydney.
New City Sports Depot: 99 King Street.
And at Newcastle and Brisbane.
Edison Amberol Records
for September.
AH
It is always our aim to make the Edison Amberola
and Blue Amberol Records bring pleasure to listeners of
all tastes, and we feel that we accomplish this in all
of our new lists.
In dance music there is a Waltz, a Fox-Trot and a One-
Step. In addition, Chan Chan Gavotte makes a fine
Schottische.
A new artist is Lewis James. He renders a solo and
also sings a duet with Sibyl Sanderson Fagan. The
Lyric Male Quartet also makes its first appearance on
our lists.
And then there are three charming Royal Purple Records
well worthy of inclusion in any library.
Royal Purple Records.
29027—Ave Maria —Cavalleria Rustic-ana (Adaptation from the celebrated “Intermezzo”)
Soprano, in Italian, with Violin Obligato. Frieda Hempe) and Mary Zentay.
29028 —Love’s Old Sweet Song. Soprano and
Male Voices, orch. acc.
Marie Rappold and Criterion Quartet
29029—La Spagnola (“The Spanish Maid”!.
Tenor, in Italian, orch. acc.
- Guido Ciccolini
Blue Amberol Records
3787—Jazzola.
Male Voices, orch acc.
Premier Quartet
3788 —Call of the Cosy Little Home—Take it
From Me. Soprano and Tenor, orch.
acc. Leola Lucy and Charles Hart
3799 — Tiger Kose Waltzes —for Dancing.
Lenzberg’s Riverside Orchestra
3800— —Don’t Cry, Frenchy, Don’t Cry. Tenor,
orch. acc. George Wilton Ballard
3801 — Heart-breaking Baby Doll. Orch acc.
Arthur Fields
3802 — Egyptland Fox Trot—for Dancing.
Green Bros.’ Novelty Orchestra
3803 — Chan Chan Gavotte.
Edison Concert Band
3804 — Kentucky Dream. Soprano and Tenor,
orch. acc. Leola Lucy and Charles Hart
3805 — Tenth Regiment March.
Conway’s Rand
3807 —By the Babbling Brook. Whistling and
Singing, orch. acc.
Sybil Sanderson Fagan and Lewis James
3809 — Think Love of Me. Soprano, orch, aec.
Gladys Rice
3810 — Ruspa.na-~4>ne-step.
Tuxedo Dance Orchestra
3811— -Lola —Italian Serenade.
Conway’s Hand
3812 — I’m Not Jealous (But I Just Don't like
It). Soprano and Tenor, orch. ace.
Kachael Grant and Billy .Murray
3813 In Heavenly Love Abiding. Sacred,
acc. Metropolitan Quartet
3814 Wait and See (You’ll Want Me Back).
Orch. acc. Charles Hart
381 ~>—-\\ hen I Met You. Contralto and Tenor
orch. acc.
Helen Clark and George W. Ballard
3818 —How Sandy Proposed.
Ada Jones and Len Spencer
3819 My Golden Rose. Tenor, orch. acc.
Lewis James
3820 -Witches. Tenor, orch. acc.
George Wilton Ballard
3821—Memories of You in Dear Hawaii.
Orch. acc. Lyric Male Quartet
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
GENUINE PICKERING
GOVERNORS. All Types,
Jin. to -I inches.
Intercolonial
Boring Co. Ltd.
BRISBANE,
Engineers’ Merchants, Manufacturers.
Engineering Requisites of all Descriptions.
Hercules Windmills Hercules Oil Engines Hercules Boring Plants
1.8. C. Horizontal Steam Engines 1.8. C. Walking Beam Pumping Plants
1.8. C. Brass Artesian & Well-Pump Cylinders 1.8. C. Centrifugal Pumps
1.8. C. Power Working Heads 1.8. C. Syphon Windmill Pumps
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Cast Iron and Wrought Steel
Pulleys, Circular Saw Benches and Spindles, Crab Winches,
London Pattern Blocks, etc., etc.
Offices and Warehouses—4lB-424 and 450-460 Ann Street,
Brisbane. Works—Yeerongpilly.
(Trams pass near by.)
(l
ON
"AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE”
This well-known brand denotes the strongest
and the highest of all
Motor-Car Steels.
5.D.21 Chrome Vanadium Steel, for Axles, Swivel Arms, Transmission
and Crank Shafts, etc. Sizes: 1 5-16, If, 21, 21 and 2| inches.
5.D.16 Nickel Steel, for Gears, Sliding, Counter and Cardon Shafts, Ball
Races, etc. To case-harden. Sizes: 1, f, 7-16, 1, If. 11, If, If, 2,2 f, 21,
2|, 3, 31, 31, 3|, 4, 4-1, 41, 71, 84, 81, 91 inches.
Full stocks of round bars on hand.
Write to Dask “A” for prices, or ’Phone City 9863 or 7819.
The Eagle and Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street, Sydney.
264 Ratrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, lialgoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Paul & Gray, Ltd., Newcastle.


DR. SHELDON’S GIN PILLS
Make Weak Backs Strong.
The pain I suffered with my
back and kidneys for over four
years was almost unbearable. I
was advised to try Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills, and I am very grateful
to say that, after taking two
boxes, I got absolute relief, and
they seemed to suit my system
perfectly. My health has im-
proved out of sight, and if you
only knew how glad I am that
my health has reaped such
great benefit you would under-
stand my writing stating how
grateful 1 am to Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills for how they have
cured me.
You may use this testimonial
if you wish.
( Sgd.) Mrs. NELL GLENN,
12 Ruthven St., Waverley.
wm®
B # 'l
"i-4
i 'M
-ym s • /<
* It t & • * " * /
JI//ZS. NELL GLENN (from a photo),
YOUR OWN VALUE
Every woman ought to know her own value, and how much her health, happiness
and general fitness for work or enjoyment matter to those about her. Mothers are
the frame upon which the work of the world is built up, yet how can a woman prove
a cheery, helpful wife, a wise, kind mother or a sympathetic companion if she is out
of health, over-weary or dispirited? Headaches, backaches, depressed nerves, sleep-
lessness and kindred troubles invade and break up more homes than any human foe.
You drag through your work too tired to enjoy life and even too tired to sleep when
night comes.
It is not the outside things, such as money or success, that make life happy, but
good health ami abundant spirits. You may have drifted so far down that you think
you will never be strong again. But good, sound health is for all. With healthy
kidnevs once more acting freely, these distressing symptoms you have endured so
long will vanish. Hr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills fire now doing for others what they can
as easily do for you—make life worth while. Turn over a new leaf for health, and
start with Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills to-day. They are sold in air-tight, sealed glass
containers; price 1/6 and 2/6.
D* Sheldon's
PIUS,
BACKACHE.KIDNEY. BLADDER
AND URINARY TROUBLES
Fla/tsieletfeA
SAFETY
COMFORT
Flannelettes
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Tlsed since I.WO. CURES Write for Rook
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
It any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
LA
r.
BM
m
i
EBB
THE PEPFE-Ci
PIPE.
Try a GBD.
It’s not an expensive pipe, but it will
give you the kind of smoke you want.
It pleases from the start because its
genuine French briarwood
is thoroughly seasoned.
The GBD is London-made by experts
who know how to fashion a pipe so
that it will need the minimum of
breaking-in.
There’s a GBD that will exactly suit
your tastes.
Many Popular Shapes.
Sold Everywhere.
Insomnia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I. ,
AT last tile day is over. 1 am tree
To cast its burdens and its cares
away.
They will not now torment and worry me,
For peaceful night is kinder than the daj.
Now I cau settle down to happy sleep,
Knowing the night will bring me no more
My slumbers will be dreamless, calm and
Healingthe ills, the frets, the dull despair.
The wind is rustling in the trees quite near,
A monotone, a soothing, slumb rous cal .
It must be rising, for I think I hear
The branches swishing on the garden wall.
Listen! Above the rustling of the trees.
There sounds faint music, throbbing sw cot
and low.
A deeper note now dominates the breeze,
A strange wild sound like nothing that i
know.
It changes yet again to accents shrill
Some untold agony is surely here.
For all the vault of Heaven seems to thrill
With dreadful pain and gruesome, deadly
fear.
Surely I hear a tortured woman shriek ;
A babe cries out as if in sudden pain.
It seems that somehow Hell has sprung a
leak.
But hush! the low sweet music comes
again.
A final yell, a sound like rushing steam,
A thud, a scratching on the roof above.
Then all at once I know it is no dream,
But two enamored cats singing their love.
The breeze has died away and quiet reigns.
Once more in sleep I’ll seek a sweet respite,
Forgetting cares and cats and other pains
In restful, happy dreams of peaceful night.
11.
I lie in darkness, dreary, deep and dense,
Counting the long, long hours of the tilt
night.
My thoughts are wand'ring o’er the whole
wide world,
Noting the land, the sea, the mountain top,
The grassy plain, the forest wild and all
The charm and beauty of our dear old earth.
And now a wider range my fancies take.
I leave the earth and venture into space.
I view the sun, the moon and distant or - .
Scattered like dust in far-off nebulae,
Each orb the centre of a system vast.
Dwarfing our own sun’s midget satellite*,
And all these atoms of the universe
Perchance combine to form one grain
Upon the shore of some supernal sea.
And now with microscopic sight I see
The million atoms in a grain of dust,
Each atom some wide solar system, formed
By circling particles of primal stuff.
Each particle maybe a world, as ours,
With untold millions living on its breast.
I cannot now distinguish great from small
And doubt, indeed, if they be not the same,
Being both limitless in time and space.
For, though the form may vary and may
change,
However far or near a bound is sought,
There always is an infinite beyond.
Does not some hidden and clairvoyant sense,
Not yet evolved in us, whisper strange words,
That time and space are one, in being but
Mere signs and tokens of infinity?
And thus, until imagination faints,
I vainly seek a resting place for thought.
But still I know my mind pervades the whole,
And, surely, knowing this, I am as God.
And yet it is not godlike thus to feel —
Subconsciously at first, now all aware —
That some tormenting fiend will not desist
From worrying my flesh. I murmur oaths
And vainly strive to catch an agile flea.
111.
It seems tq, me, no matter how I try,
I’ll get no sleep in this confounded bed.
I turn, I twist, I stretch my arms, I sigh.
What have I done that kindly sleep has
fled?
A loud cock crows and others answer back
From near and far, like echoes in a cave.
The dawn draws near. Still I am on tin'
rack,
Seeking in vain the rest for which I crave.
Here’s a policeman coming down the street.
I hear his heavy footfalls from afar.
They pass. They die away. A glimmering
sweet
Shines through the blind from a far dis-
tant star.
At last comes slumber, folds me in her arms.
Pillows my tired head upon her breast,
Heals my hurt nerves and drives away all
barms,
Soothing me softly to my longed-for rest.
A rattling of loud cans, a gate slammed hard,
The milkman comes, yodelling a lusty call.
I hear him stamping through the outer yard.
And start, and bump my head against the
wall.
There is no sleen for me. I lie awake
Until I must get up, thankful for day.
It brings its cares, its worries, its heartache,
But drives the horrors of the night away.
VICTORIA.
H. S. EYTON.
The Riot Act at Innidinni.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
W MORRIS STANLEY, J.P., of
Eclipse Corner, was waited on
* by the local police-sergeant an
hour after daylight, and the local police-ser-
geant had news that demanded immediate
action. The blacks of the jungle, grown inso-
lent with immunity from punishment for such
light affairs as the looting of tents of absent
miners, had made a demonstration in force at
Innidinni —had been fired on by three miners
in defence of their possessions and of the
right to pursue their lawful vocations, and
had driven two of the miners back, leaving
their companion dead on the field and riddled
with spears. When the miners returned in
force they found but tracks leading into the
jungle gloom and a long, confused mark in
the muddy ground, suggesting that the dead
miner had been taken away to the cooking-
pots.
For this reason Sergeant Basteel, of
Eclipse Corner, now called on Stanley, J. 8.,
to accompany him and his force of black
troopers to Innidinni, there to read the
Riot Act and thereby make the act of “dis-
persing” legal.
Mr. Morris Stanley, J.P., said “Hum” anu
“Ha,” and that the matter was very serious
indeed ; but beyond that and gaping like a
stranded fish he did little to help the sergeant
with advice. He wondered instead why the
sergeant should come to him, and was told
in reply that he was the only J.P. then at
Eclipse Corner. Pluffison, the butcher, was
absent, “killing,” this day, Friday, being the
Bartholomew’s day of swine ; and Ames, the
blacksmith, was steadily engaged on a long job
of repairing the broken waggons of a travel-
ling circus. Therefore, knowing that Mr. Stan-
ley, the local registrar, land, stock, insurance,
and general agent, had little to do, he, the
sergeant, had taken the liberty of coming and
seeing Mr. Morris Stanley, J.P., as aforesaid.
Mr. Stanley did not much like the outlook.
Ilis commission as Justice of Peace, granted
because he had been on the side of the
winning local candidate in State politics, and
accepted in the belief that the duties of the
position were purely nominal, did not now
seem the valuable distinction it had first
been. It is one thing to be majestic on the
bench, delivering the justice of the high, the
middle and the low to repentant drunks,
lecturing vagrant speewas on the curse and
temptation of laziness, and prophesying
agonising ends for boys convicted of playing
the wag. When he had first written the
magic letters “J.P.” after his name—a duty
not to be neglected on private or business
letters, or advertisements of his various
agencies—he had not considered the contin-
gency of compulsory interference in the pur-
suits of lawless aboriginals playing Ned Kelly
in the jungle BO mile^away; and lest his
manner should not sufficiently express his
reluctance, he put it also into words.
“But, Sergeant,” he said, “do you mean
to tell me it’s part of my duty as a magis-
trate to read the Riot Act to —er —murder-
ers?”
“When there is reason to believe that any
crowd is met for an unlawful purpose it is
the duty of the magistrate first consulted to
proceed with the police or military, as the
case may be, to order the crowd to disperse;
and, if it refuses, to open fire, and disperse
them by force.”
“And am I the first magistrate you con-
sulted ?”
“Yes, sir. Mr. Pluffson is away; and I
know that Mr. Ames is too busy, so I haven’t
asked him.”
“In that case,” said Mr. Stanley, pallid
but decisive, “and as it is my duty, I agree.
Can you get me a copy of the Riot Act?”
“I have it here, sir.”
“And can I read it in the court-house.”
Sergeant Basteel smiled. “No, sir,” he
said. “It must be read in the presence of
the rioters.”
“But will they understand?”
“It is no business of ours whether they do
or no,” replied the sergeant. “The law says
nothing about people who don’t understand.
It only says ‘Read the Riot Act, and then
order the armed force to disperse them.’ ”
“But if they don’t understand they may be
violent.”
“All my black boys will be there fully
armed, sii’.”
His reservations thus disposed of, Stanley,
J.P., sighed and consented to be led to the
reading of the Riot Act at Innidinni.
They mounted him on a police horse, like
unto the Brobdingnagian animal which bore
Gulliver; and Stanley, J.P., unused to any
horse’s pace but the very deliberate walk,
skinned himself in various places unfit for
publication during the long bumpy ride to
Innidinni. They forded rivers full of bould-
ers and rushing water; slipped over rich,
fat chocolate soils; fell down greasy clav
cuttings, with only the horses’ rumps and
fetlocks between themselves and earth that
sticketh closer than a brother when he wants
to borrow money. The Riot Act was in the
right hand patch-pocket of Mr Stanley’s rain-
coat, and it flapped and flogged Mr.‘Stanley
and Mr. Stanley’s horse for almost all the
way.
They trotted down long, wide, green tun-
nels in the jungle, misnamed roads, floored
with lush and slippery grasses, punctuated
by loamy puddles tenanted by leeches;
through dark paths in the jungle, with great!
white, flowering vines looped from tree to
tree, as if nature imitated artificial decora-
tion, so regular were those curious growths;
entered the sunlight again in pockets of a
mile wide roofed by the blue saucer of the
sky, carpeted with the silver tussocks of the
kangaroo-grass, and walled by the magnolia
green of the surrounding jungle.
Into the darkness of the jungle again, the
overhanging trees and creepers tenting out
the sky; the everlasting drip of rain and
dew, the condensation of eternal steam, mak-
ing the track a succession of deep puddle and
greasy, hill—the “potato furrows” that made
the mostly plain-bred horses slip and snort
and threaten to fall even unto seventy times
seven.
This last experience tried Stanley. J.P..
sorely. Essentially a man of the office, by
birth an agent, and the first-born of all such
as live on commission, he had never done
such circus-riding before. His thin face and
pouched neck were coursed by his own sweat;
it poured into his mouth and eyes and stung
him with the salt of it. And all the time the
sergeant rode ahead of him. and the dozen
black troopers—silent and immovable as if
of bronze, moving only with their horses’
movements, as if they were inanimate things
securely fastened to their saddles—rode be-
hind. They were dressed in regulation uni-
form, and armed with carbine and revolver;
they went on soberly as seen from without,
and within were glad of their work to be.
Stanley. J.P., felt uncomfortable as he looked
around at their fixed faces, only a patch of
(Continued on next page.)


Do Thing's “Get on
»
ft:;.
m
m
m
%
%
l
n
P*
SP
::v
: <n.
’Every Picture
Tells a Story"
Your Nerves”?
Are you “quick,” irritable and easily upset? Do you
continually worry over trifles? Then there’s something
wrong. At the back of it all may be bad kidneys. When
the kidneys are weak they no longer filter all the uric
acid and other poisons from the blood. These poisons
get into the system, irritate and upset 'the nerves and
vital organs, and you have backache, nerves, dizziness,
despondent spells and an all-worn-out feeling Trv
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. They are
recommended the world over and are perfectly safe
and harmless.
TESTIMONY FROM SYDNEY PEOPLE.
TWO PERMANENT CURES.
An Arncliffe Woman.
ic*. J - Smith, “Bonnie Doon,” Duncan Street, Arncliffe, Sydney, say?
My kidneys were in a bad way for some time, and I suffered terribly from
backache in consequence. I could not stoop freely; in fact, all my movements
thl kisS£ cap wf;°T'f t 0 ache that used to catch me across
the kidneys. My rest at night was broken, and during the day I felt tired
and languid having no energy for anything. I was advised to try Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, so sent for some at once. They worked wonders in
?ure CaS T took D th r , e ii a £? ° St - im “? dia t. ely ’ and gradually effecting a complete
cure. I took three bottles m all, and my cure is perfect. Six years have
JSS 1 Backache Kidney Pills, and I have been well
ail tha„ time, lhej- are a grand remedy.’
, ~I T O Ur . yeai ' s , later . Mr - Smith says“My cure still holds good, no sign
tenyeare ago/’ l6 having returned since 1 used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
A North Sydney Man.
M t’ J Z hn Simmons, 7 Bank street ’ North Sydney, says“ For some
years I suffered dreadfully from serious kidney trouble. The agony. I had
to bear was at times awful, and can be better imagined than described T
was under several doctors, but their treatment did not benefit me very much
and I would soon be as bad as ever again. A friend of mine heard of a
wonderful cure by Doan s Backache Kidney Pills, so urged me to try these
pills, and I decided to do so. After taking one bottle I felt very much -^ better,
and as I kept on with them the improvement was maintained until finally T
was completely cured, and I have not had a sign of kidney trouble since.
Doan s Backache Kidney Pills have my hearty recommendation, and I hone
many will benefit by my experience and give them a trial.”
Three years later Mrs. Simmons says“My husband has had no return
of his old complaint since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured him some
time ago.”
Backache
Kidney
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
»11 Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
red velvet relieving the blackness when they
yawned in boredom of this slow ride through
the saturated jungle; and that blackness ex-
aggerated by the dead, eggshell-white of their
*u CS ‘ Stantey, J-8., after turning to look at
them three or four times felt that they would
as cheerfully march to do execution on him
who by accident of position was to read the
itiot Act that day ; and, with that knowledge
riding at his shoulder like an enemy, he kept
his face resolutely fixed on the jogging
quarters of the sergeant’s horse ahead.
They stopped for tucker at a pocket where
the good sun came first to steam and then to
roast them • and, after half an hour there,
re-entered the jungle on the last lap of the
fnr r £r y 'i Th ?U ast Ja l» was full of alarms
Stanley, J.l. A tracker at a word from
rw'-T l E eUUt n eut ahead t 0 Pick up tracks, and
fnr l thl tGl a ! l , was excursions and alarums
o the magistrate. A scrub-wallaby, with
a large colony of ticks, come out to the track
* aratc . h kmiself and scurried back in fear;
a scrub turkey ran along the dim passage in
of 6 -. SlTi bef °u e f the horses >' the breaking
of a stick by a hoof sounded to Stanley J P
theVoodsf 1116111 ° f blacks braking through
„ Came sudd enly to a clearing, and
jK, u hL i UII ? S j of tents and the ashes of a
,V f d bougl) shed, a small anvil thrown off its
thimisTi Upi , osp , e . ct . ing d isb with a pick-mark
thiough it, and shining in the sun. A white
said that all his mates were awav after
the niggers, and that he had been left in
camp, being too full of fever to walk The
mere exertion of talking brought the' co d
g“ rc i Zi %»*, ‘ >is T p ,; int i» aSR
cue «ush. Stanley, J.P., sa t on his horse
watching the sergeant dismount.
<m3 hIS “We it «f Mr f Stanley ’” sa i d the ser-
geant. . \v e stay here to-night.”
"‘This is what, sergeant?”
«. If • vou ’ ll get off th e
11 lfc over t 0 one of the boys.”
do I read the Riot Act here?”
theTSg e.’~ jUSt here ‘ Y ° U CaQ,t get into
“But there’s nobody to read it to!”
“AJI the black boys will be witnesses.”
Bui; there’s no crowd !”
‘Tt’s the best we can do. Then every-
thing is legal for the dispersal, and it saves
a lot of trouble and money afterwards.”
wondering Stanley, J.P., dismounted
as the men returned to .say they had picked
up the tracks, the white men having fol-
lowed tracks made by the murderers to de-
ceive with a gunny-bag full of stones used to
simulate the dragging of a corpse through
nd tben while two of them
tended the horses the other blacks solemnly
stripped until tSey were naked men. wear-
ing a bandolier, a belt and revolver, and
carrying each a short carbine.
You get to it now, Mr. Stanley,” said
the sergeant.
‘‘l beg your pardon?”
You can read the Riot Act now, before
®,° ia to the jungle on the tracks.”
* ? ea( t toe Riot Act, and no riot?”
”Oh, yes, we’ve had it already—three
days ago.
Stanley, J.P., looked around for a crowd
and a riot. He saw only the indefinite and
dappled smear of blue which was the sky
trying to send its light into the leafy tunnel ;
t* l ® mir .Y track, and the weeping jungle; the
tattered huts and the horses with their heads
down, and their tails tucked in against the
endless drizzle and steam; the naked sav-
ages, grim and fully armed for slaughter.
■‘Well well!” sajd Stanley. J.P. “Well
We ! I , m “ Bt be as Y°u say. but—well,
well. God bless my soul.” And he began
to read in a thin voice, roughened by the
searching moisture of the jungle.
“'Our Sovereign Lord the King’—ah—ura
’ chargeth and commandeth all —all’—um—
persons being assembled, immediately to dis-
perse themselves, and peacefully to depart
to their own habitations or to their lawful
business —what nonsense !—‘upon the pains
contained in the Act made in the first year
of King George for preventing tumultuous
and riotous assemblies.’ ”
He looked around at the silent jungle and
the mysterious and noiseless rain, and con-
cluded with a sigh of hopelessness at this
formalism become idiotic. “ ‘And’—or—‘God
save the King.’ ”
“Now, boys,” said Sergeant Basteel as
Stanley, J.I-\, stopped reading. “ ’Tenshun !
All boy go along quick-feller, quiet-feller."
'Viien you come louga blanks’ camp one boy
—you, Pannikin—sipg out ‘Stand in’ the
name ot the Queen.’ You sing out that one
three-feller time. S’posen all black boy
tie em up; bring ’em longa camp
S posen run away, s’posen niakem fight,
then you shoot quick-feller. Now, Pannikin
you say all that one.”
“1 been sing out strong-feller,” said Pan-
nikin glibly, “ ‘Stand three-feller Queen ’
Then”
“No fear. ‘Stand one-feller Queen.’
Singem out that one three-feller time.”
“Yowi! All right that one, Marini!
Stand one-feller Queen’ three-feller time.
Then been shootem.”
“No fear! S’posen not stand, then been
shootem.
“Yowi! S’posen no been stand, shootem
up altogether that one.”
“Right! I been stop along here longa
two-feller boy, so if altogether black feller
com-e along I been stop ’em. Now, Panni-
kin! Now, all boy! March quick-feller!”
The naked bandoliered men turned silently
a nd melted into the bush.
. r f be murderers’ camp was made but four
miles off in a pocket approached by no horse-
track, so that they felt secure. Their hur-
riedly-made wurlies of green bushes and
bark and the fragments of the looted tents
framed to the sunlight; the smoke of their
little fires arose through the torn canvas and
the branches. The gins dozed happily among
the dogs; the men smoked the stolen tobacco.
i .white man they had killed had been
cached, for another day: they were full of
tinned meat, tinned fish, jam and sugar eaten
by the handful—its fermentation made them
drowsily and happily intoxicated.; an intoxi-
cation deepened by the heavy black tobacco
of the miners.
Basteel's troopers, naked but for the belt
and bandolier, flitted through the black-
green jungle like black shadows, came to
the edge of the pocket and separated to sur-
round it.
A dog barked suddenly. An old gin awoke
and screamed. The men dropped their pipes,
the sense of guilt making them ready to meet
danger as the consciousness of innocence
would have left them disordered and afraid.
They ran to spear and womerah. They
caught up clhbs and one ancient Snider
rifle without ammunition; and then Hell
broke loose. Out of the wall of the scrub
came the noise of the Winchesters fired by
steady hands and aimed with eagle eyes.
The big buck glossy with the murdered
miner’s kidney fat threw a spear feebly at
nothing, crumpled at the knees and' fell
dead. A gin ran to .him, and a bullet took
her, too. A ramshackle old man with a
dirty white beard to his breast-bone cried
for mercy, and got a bullet in the head. A
yellow cur that forgot his cowardice and
infidelity howled over the coTpse, took a
bullet through the loins and died licking the
wound.
\\ itliin 10 minutes the men were all
accounted for. Two escaped through the
loose cordon, to be run down and killed
among the lawyer-vines; 12 dead as stones
and one wounded in the breasts and crying
for life and pity. The trooper who stood
over him looked inquiringly at Pannikin as
the victor-gladiator .may have looked at Nero.
‘ Altogether finish,” answered Pannikin
implacably, and the wounded man died with
a bullet in his head.
And then Pannikin got the surprise of his
life, a young gin mad with grief rushing at
him, her hands full of woman’s weapons,
which are 10 nails. Pannikin held her off
with the rifle, but deprecntingly, as if he
recognised the righteousness of her rage.
, r “I been know-em you, Mary,” he said.
‘That one old feller your father altogether?”
“Yowi, my father that one. You bad-
feller.”
“I n ot been wantem killem your father,
Mary. Altogether he got alonga road this
one rifle.”
“No matter my father,” shrieked the be-
reaved one ; “altogether him been sulky feller.
J hat one dog belongem me no been sulky fel-
ler—why you killem that one dog?”
The other gins, wailing over their dead,
called to her of their sorrows in discount of
their own, and Pannikin seized the moment
of respite to get his men together. They
carried the dead out of the clearness of the
glass pocket into the jungle, and threw them
among the covering vines. Then Pannikin
graciously intimated to the gins that, Justice
being now satisfied, they might'have all the
loot of the miners’ camp for consolation ; and
then he marshalled his forces for departure.
Half-way back to the miners’ camp he met
Seigeant Basteel, guided by the firing, and
hot-foot to the battle. Pannikin reported:
Plenty gin sit down that a-way. All bov
altogether finish.”
“Good boy, Pannikin. You do all that one
I tell you?”
“Yowi, Marmi.”
"You been say 'Stand in the name of the
Queen’ three-feller time.”
Pannikin scratched his head. Then he
made a clean breast of it, but cheerfully, and
as one ready to retrieve an error: “I been
forgettem that dam-feller Queen, Marmi. No
matter that one. I been sayem now.”
He levelled his rifle at a little opening in
the trees.
“Stand three-feller Queen,” shouted Panni-
kin commandingly to the jungle, which re-
mained motionless.
“Stand three-feller Queep,” repeated Pan-
nikin, adding immediately—“No good that
one.”
Then he fired his rifle at the jungle, and
turned cheerfully to Basteel.
“I been sayem all right that one, Marmi,”
said Pannikin. “Altogether finish.”
Basteel grinned as he led the way back to
camp.
* * '* *
“It was certainly the most casual justice
I have ever seen,” said Stanley, J.P., to
Bown, the storekeeper, two days later. “I
read the confounded Riot Act to some
damaged tents and the jungle and the rain;
but it seems it had the desired effect.”
“I always said you had a fine voice,” re-
plied Bown. “Let’s have another.”
And in their green and rainy sepulchres in
the everlasting jungle the dead men rested
none the less easily because Pannikin had
forgotten the formula of “Stand, three-feller
Queen.”
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Summer Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FIERCE and tender, young with mirth,
Beats the sun upon the earth.
Kissing leaf and blade and flower
Like a lover this full hour.
Smoke-blue sky and smoke-blue stream,
Where the idle rushes dream,
Move in lazy, loving motion
Like the great fire-wedded ocean;
And the rapture lifts my frame
From its pale white light to flame,
Sweet and smarting with world-bliss,
Breathing Beauty from a kiss.
Oh, the calm of summer-heat
Burning brown my slender feet!
Oh, the brooding .mother-peace
Waiting for the world’s increase,
For the happy harvest yield
And the fruit from vale and field,
For the sweets that Spring, girl-sure,
Promised Summer should mature!
Stir me not from this deep rest
On your quiet, holy breast.
I am mixed with earth and sea,
Married to world-melody.
Stream and land and light and air,
Sun-loved, mingle everywhere.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.


WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
CONCORD WEST. N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office— SO Queen Street, Melbourne
ORLICKS
MALTED
a.nwM-
*S3
OSMttK
S.'
£
The Ideal Food-
Drink(Milk, Wheat,
and Malt). Keeps \
for years and never
becomes stale or loses
any of its admirable
qualities. It is made
in a moment, any-j
where. Only water/
needed.. In hot climates it is/
invaluable.
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Bbitish Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
A HAIRDRESSING
Perfect in
Equipment.
The finest in Sydney. Every
modern appointment, conveni-
ence and comfort.
Craig £ Aitken’s Saloon Employs
Seven Expert Hairdressers —
men whose training and experi-
ence have been gained in the
best saloons of the world.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY will
find Craig and Aitken’s Saloon
conveniently near the Central
Railway Station —almost next
door to Anthony Horderns’.
Prompt Service Guaranteed.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR, here
illustrated, and for which
Craig and Aitken’s are Sole
Agents in Australia, is the Razor
we have used in our Saloon for
over 30 years.
PRICE 12/6 POST FREE; or
Pair in Double Case, 25/-
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
&
J. 1
l
This Guarantee may be a
little thing in itself, but it is
the biggest thing to the
buyer as to the confidence
the manufacturers of Shirley
President Braces have in
their own goods.
OUR GUARANTEE.
Satisfaction or money back.
If this Brace proves unsatis-
factory in any particular,
mail it to us—not your
dealer—with your name
and address plainly written
on package. We will re-
pair, replace or, if requested,
refund your money.
Sold By Good Dealers Everywhere.
Look for the name on the buckles—Shirley President.
Shirley, Mass., U.S.A. . Established in 1876.
Cable Address: PRESIDENT.
Western Union, ABC—-Fifth Edition, and Bentley’s Code.
BEEGHM’S PILLS
the famous digestive medicine, have proved during three generations,
to be an unfailing friend to dyspeptic sufferers. They have brought
relief to men and women in all parts of the world for more than
seventy years. This is so unique a record that due importance should
be attached to its real meaning. This may be expressed in the one
word —Satisfaction. The people who have taken this medicine have
been satisfied with the results which have followed. Only in this way
can the continuous demand be explained. An important point arises
here. A medicine which has given such long-continued satisfaction to
those whq have taken it must have properties of remarkable reliability.
And this consideration should prove of the utmost encouragement to
those who have yet to try Beecham’s Pills for the first time.
They have given satisfaction—general satisfaction —after the most
thorough test; why should they not give the same to you? If then,
you suffer in any way from the distressing troubles arising from
impaired digestion, sluggish liver and irregular action of the bowels —
seek the aid of this great remedy at once. Give Beeeham’s Pills a
fair trial. They will not disappoint you. They will relieve and remove
your digestive troubles and abundantly assist you in every way to
SAFEGUARD YOUR HEALTH.
Sold in boxes, labelled 10£d., ls-l|d and 2s-9d. ( original English prices.)
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we stale
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Blackheads. In fact they make you better
looking. Safe for children.
Small Pill—Small Doss—Small Prioa.
GENUINE must
bear signature
QUEENSLAND
MOST RESOURCEFUL OF
THE AUSTRALIAN STATES
Visitors to Sydney and residents of JS/etv South Wales
when seeking information about the Great Northern State, whether
from a tourist, land settlement, scientific or investment point of view,
should first enquire at the Sydney Branch of the
Queensland Govt. Intelligence & Tourist Bureau.
Full Information and Descriptive Literature supplied FREE.
Address: 279 George street, Sydney. s.b.
'emm
UM\
Automatic Pistol
Cartridges
I Your pistol deserves the best cartridge
that can be bought. Inferior ammuni-
tion may endanger your life.
Remington UMC Automatic Pistol Cartridges suit any
standard make of arm and enable you to get the best
results out of your skill.
Special leaflet post, l
free upon requests]
C-*
- ,
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
§3s
Da D. Bryant, Australian Representative
Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne
Wmm
Eight-hour Art Onion S Sports.
PRIZES VALUE £3500.
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
Drawn OCTOBER 30, 1920.
Ist Prize, value £750. 2nd Prize, value £3OO.
3rd Prize, value £2OO. And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by A. O. and J. O. Paxton,
of Cairns, Queensland, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1920.
Results of Drawing will, be advertised in The Bulletin on
Thursday, November 4, 1920. To any person 'forwarding
stamped, addressed envelope, a list of the results will be
posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all towns, or direct
from ARTHUR W. YAGER, Secretary, Eight Hour Committee,
Trades Hall, Sydney.


,'£m
4!-ud-:o$. ' .%
;. : ;~-'-.0->'y;.:; -■:■■■■■, *1
l.\* '->■. ' ‘-V/*
ia»iiwp^b. :
wlt&'s&V' $$
:m- :r -y r ~'
-
--
m
P 9
m
m
i
m
I ':
4***.
i
'Mr^\
■
■
m
;■,: •
mHcyyy&
:mm
m
./ ’ ; /:
£•: ;.. • v :
!?/,>' ..-y "i -- V - \? 'j v ;jt‘.'s
i K * * !>, t
■
; :•. S
1
;ia
•Ay
''.l
'.S'
~' ::,; s |y;y, yy
k- Shhl
I, i Hi
ife.
si
.
mm..,
mm
.... ■*• •
'■>■• " v
feWsWi'
gw
■■yy
x m
’--- .-•■■-* <st- J .v ■
• V
»" ,-'
r -. ’ ;
s- 1 :-
V %$<
mmmamm
iißisaai
IT is a far cry from being a hunted outlaw with a reward of £2OO upon his head to occupying the Speakership of a British Parliam i n
late Hon. Peter Lalor did at the period of his life Which this portait represents. Within two years of .the Eureka Stockade affair e **
elected to the Legislative Assembly of Victoria, in which he sat almost to the end of his life, occupying the Speaker s Chair ror man> y •
When, in his last illness, he was obliged to relinquish his high office, Parliament voted him unanimously the sum of £4OOO— only voicing i
affectionate regard and esteem in which the one-time “rebel” was held by his fellow-citizens in the country of his adoption. His woe 1 e
such that there was no one at its ending who did not honor and respect him. Without exaggeration, it may be said that he is worthy to ran i
historical record, as one of the fathers of Australian Democracy, with such men as William Charles Wentworth, and others who a o
with the shaping of the destinies of the Commonwealth. . , •
Messrs. Brinds Pty. and Company, Limited, of Ballarat, distillers of the well-known brands of Brinds Whisky and Brinds a J- e
away six pictures having to do with the famous Eureka Stockade episode of 1854—which is the only battle that has ever been oug on
Australian soil. The fight at Eureka hardly counts for as much, for instance, as the Battles of the Marne or the Somme -but it mar s a
distinct epoch in the struggle for Australian Democracy, and is, therefore, of the greatest interest to Australians. The drawings have been execu e
by the Smith and Julius studios, and are fine works of art. There is no advertising matter on them, and it is only necessary for those w o wis
to possess the set to write to Messrs. Brinds, at Ballarat (Vic.), enclosing stamps to the value of sixpence for postage, in order to o am e .
Owing to the great care exercised in the production of these drawings they will not be posted until the first week in November.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
