

DEIVAB 3 S3 —The Spirit of Age and Wisdom
Machinery Merchants,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty • AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
* V * ■■ ■■ 1 11 ' " '
N S W- MONT de PIETE D S> I C9T
74 S"t., 74. Sydney.
. -ADVANCES -
mppr"
' iiiiiKiK
IllllillllllilliiiiiiiimuiiiiHiiiiUllillll
mg
»• 7
ii.mitli! If
[IIIIIIIP"'""
ON ALL CLASSES
OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION
P r fo/icfej<3? 215-17Swanston StJVIb.. 40 Adelaide St., Brisbane.'
29 King StHevrcastle. l97*Castlereaqh St., 5 159 George St.,West, Sydney.
CAPITAL 5.200.000
Joseph W.fii/I.
‘Phone City 9325.
General Manager.
"'fllij
P?
Iniiuiim
THE “ A U STKAIJAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. I Ad.”
Improved BIG CHIEF
Oil Engines.
V,
m h
i. ItMl
Head and
Shoulders
abo'
all
others.
Sizes:
1# h.p.
to 8 h.p.
Stationary
and
Order One TO-DAY.
CASH OR EASY TERMS.
R. L Scrotton 8 Co. Ltd.,
16! CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
• t)orit Argue"
tlfy
£
Nothimb
TO ArEUE
About!"
*' Are the Best
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors us oeing
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
tnssmm
Ju
V ......
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily utter
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Used the
World Over
igliPPil
m
I
wm
I
Wwv^^vwww^
A\\\\wMm\\\\w
—sure protection against rust
Pabco Paint is the most effective obtainable. It spreads evenly and easily and forms a
long-lasting coating that is a thorough preservative against corrosion. Renews the lite ot
rusty roofs.
Let us prove how it will save you money. Write for details.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE
Railway Rolling Stock of c
Sugar Mill Machinery . H
ENGINEERING COMPANY L
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
II Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines,
tavy iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths,Sinks, etc.
GRANVILLE
N.S.W.
The Old Gaelic Whisky
. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH <&. CO. LTD
Sir W. G
For AUTOMOBILE and
GENERAL ENGINEERING Work.
CASE-HARDENING and ALLOY
LARGE RANGE OF
SIZES STOCKED.
»soie Australian j^epresentatives:
Gilbert Lodge 8 Co. Ltd.,
115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
STEELS.
Interstate Stocking Agents—
A SCOTT & CO., 164 Edward Street, Brisbane. '
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.) KTP., 894 Hay Street, Perth.
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay*
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2128.
Thursday, November 25, 1920.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1920 is now ready, and will be posted
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.; 428
George Street. Sydney. Tele. 6431. —Advt.
YOU A sth "DIVVY” MAN ?
■
■ ' [; TUJ! jU-«i ' I
' • |hf is til 4 TUP 4 v- - f fi
J -1; V'^ x ’ • i :
$ I M
m i* < i
'Msisif’J;
»>-
- ~ f
>&sss■ *"
IF SO—YOU WILL WANT THIS BOOK.
The Story of the
Fifth Australian
Division
By CAPT. A. D. ELLIS, M.C.
A complete record of the Division's work which
every member will treasure. With illustrations and
maps.
Price 18/- Postage 1/-
FROM YOUR BOOKSELLER
or
Melville & Mullen Pty M Ltd., 262-4 Collins Street, Melbourne. [3
Here is proof that owners
think well of the supreme
From a Melbourne owner :
“We have recently had' a
three weeks’ tour in our Sunbeam
car. This tour was taken through
some of the worst country, we
believe, in the world. In some
places there were no roads at
all, only tracks through the bush.
In one part it was really an un-
fair thing to expect any car
to get through. However, the
car is now back again, and
during the whole trip the en-
gine did not give the slightest
trouble.”
SUNBEAM-
GOATALEN
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
lOTOR CAR
CO., LTD
, Oxford Street, London, W. 1
Head Office:
Wolverhampton, England.
IV
• •
ig^
m
II
-MW
i
Sole Agents tor New South Wales; FRASEE & WILXSFORD, 822 George Street, Sydney.
THE PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
YOUR BATH
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KINO
SCRUBBS AMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATION OF INSECT BITES.
Of all Grocers, Chemists, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
a >\vi iTanl
imustdie:
NON POISQNOU3 POWDER. (
THE GREATINSKJ ODTKOyER.
/ Plica.
1 Fleaa.
) Buga.
\Mo3quiToea
9.°
N,
MUSTDIE
POWDER must not be mistaken for insecti-
cide or eommon insect powders, some of
which are sold under fancy names, for
“MUSTDIE” contains an ingredient par-
ticularly fatal to that common house pest
aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.”
MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers,
or forward 1/- in stamps to Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney.
[4
The Red Page
William Sutherland
The late William Sutherland, of Mel-
bourne, for whom a richly deserved memoria
volume has just been issued by Professor
Osborne, though little known to Australians
as a whole, was yet one of our most famous
men. He was one of a type only too rare
either here or anywhere: a man utterly
careless of money, or, still rarer, of fame
who spent a lifetime swimming in the deepest
waters of the most recondite of sciences, con-
tent if only he could advance human know-
ledge, whatever might be the personal result
to himself. With his remarkable ability—call
it genius if you will—he might have held
almost any scientific position in Australia ;
he preferred to live on the starvation pay
of desultory journalism, writing articles for
the Age whenever he.ran short of money,
but plunging more deeply into the mysteries
of molecular physics than any other Aus-
tralian has ever had strength or vision to do.
He worked mainly at the action of heat on
gases, attempting to state this action in a
mathematical formula. Every gas is com-
posed of almost infinite numbers of almost
infinitely minute dancing moleculesj and the
problem before Sutherland was to find a
formula which would state the actions of
these when subjected to heat. This no one
ever succeeded in doing until Sutherland hit
upon the idea that possibly as the molecules
danced in their wild orgy to and fro, each
molecule would attract the other just as do
two suns in space. If one-Sun should happen
to pass by another as it careers along, the
two would not necessarily fall into each
other; each would so effect the other that
their respective paths, instead of continuing
to be straight, would be curved, and indeed
the result might be that the two suns would
revolve around each other like earth and
moon. Just so Sutherland visioned the in-
finitely tiny molecules; visioned them with
his mind’s eye, for no one has ever seen a
molecule, and probably no one ever will. As
the gas becomes warmer the dance becomes
fiercer and fiercer; the tiny things dash to
and fro and round about, hurling themselves
with furious energy against the walls of their
prison-house; but always obeying the great
law that Sutherland evolved, the law that
has become famous to scientific men as
“Sutherland’s constant.” After stating this
law he spent the rest of his life in applying it
to all manner of chemical bodies and pro-
cesses, and died in 1911. .at 52, leaving a
fragrant memory to the comparatively few
people who knew him, or, rather, whom he
cared to know.
Professor Osborne has written a kind and
generous tribute to a kind and generous
friend. (The Memorial Boole of William
Sutherland, Lothian.) There are too few men
like Sutherland in this or any other country,
simple, austere, learned, single-minded, who
deem the glory of this world well lost if they
can but pick up a few shells from the shore's
of science. Perhaps there may be more than
we think. Let us hope so when we read of
the squalid quarrellings in Parliament. In
Professor Osborne’s words, Sutherland was
“a saint of science.”
C. McL.
The Book of Kells
The history of book-illumination in Europe
—an art which passed away with the intro-
duction of printing—is largely the tale of
the struggle between Irish and Byzantine
methods and traditions. The Byzantine
school carried something over from the classic
days of ancient Greece and Rome; the Irish
introduced to the parchment the old Celtic
ideas of ornamentation which had been used
on gold, silver and bronze ages before. The
Byzantine knew more of actual drawing from
the life; the Irish excelled in intricate
design and the weaving of an infinite num-
ber of grotesques into one dazzling and alto-
gether delightful scheme of color and form.
The Byzantine school used gold, sometimes
in moderation, often excessivelythe Irish
to a late date got its effects entirely without
gilding, though some of the designs in the
mass are so blended as to make a golden
wliolq. Eventually the styles overlapped, but
by the time , their distinctiveness was lost
the glory of both had departed. By the
14th and 15th centuries the illustrative draw-
ings had vastly improved, but the delicate
border work had been replaced by something
infinitely poorer, and the distinction of the
initial letters was gone. So few illuminated
manuscripts are extant that it is purely
matter of conjecture at what date the Irish
school reached its zenith. It was certainly
active from the fifth to the twelfth century,
but practically died, like all other native
arts and crafts; with the English invasion.
The Book of Kells, described by Sir
Edward Sullivan (“The Studio,” London),
s a reproduction of 24 plates in color from
the finest Celtic illuminated manuscripts
which escaped destruction. Its date is uncer-
tain. Sir Edward Sullivan argues for the
ninth century ; Todd and O’Donovan are sure
't belongs to the sixth ; Miss Stokes. Middle-
ton. Westwood, Zimmerman and Thompson
s . a .y the seventh; Stanford Robinson and
Abbott think the eighth; Sir John Gilbert
p aces it from a.d. 600 to 900; and Mac-
afister holds that it is later than 830. All
tnese are authorities; and the variety of
tneir opinions goes to indicate the slender-
noss of the data on which they are forced
o oni id. Sullivan himself is so conservative
m lus view of Irish beginnings that his esti-
mate must be partly ruled by it; and the
manuscript may well be a few centuries
older than he thinks. Kells, where the book
was lost and found again, is a ‘little town
in Meath ; and the old monastery which once
stood there was the refuge of the monks
from lona—-St. Columba’s own lona—the
most sacred place in the Scottish isles. It
was over a manuscript that Columba became
an exile; and, curiously enough, when all its
greatest rivals to fame have been destroyed,
the one noblest manuscript remaining—pro-
bably the finest illuminated book in the world
—is still associated with the great soldier-
saint’s name. Kells held its treasure until
Henry VIII broke up the monastery, then
it “came to Dublin, and was finally added to
a collection of antiquities made by Ussher at
the command of James I. Trinity College
has it now, minus a few margins which a
bookbinder cut off a century ago.
To adequately describe the wonder of the
pages here reproduced is quite impossible.
The drawings of Saints may be passed by as
mattering nothing. They are strangely crude
by comparison with the rest; but the minute
delicacy of the spiral and network designs,
the brilliant and harmonious coloring and
the glowing initial letters leave us worider-
ing. The effects are something like those
of a magnificent Persian carpet reduced to
miniature, but with far greater accuracy of
design. The interwoven lines are often finer
than cobweb threads, yet drawn with mathe-
matical precision; the colors retain their
brilliancy and look like a glowing enamel;
the ink is as black as the day it was used;
the maddest fancy in detail grows on every
page to a complete conception which is alto-
gether satisfying to the eye. You get Ire-
land everywhere in miniature —a thousand
freakish whimsicalities make a true harmony.
And the infinite patience and system of it
all! It needed time for that; and England
has never given Ireland time for anything
since the reign of provocation and slaughter
began in 1169.
Irish art, like Irish mythology and history,
has attracted a lot of study in recent years.
The book illumination which we know is
Christian ; whether or not there are lost pre-
Christian examples of it is matter for con-
jecture. The finest Irish metal work left
is pre-Christian—produced, in fact, earlier
than the Christian era. The Irish written
language has an alphabet which may be
regarded as a modified Greek, and probably
came at first from the Hellenic settlements
in Southern Gaul: but there was the native
Ogham script before that. Metal work flour-
ished at some date b.c.. then became crude
in the time of St. Patrick and again reached
new heights of exquisite craftsmanship just
before the English blight. May the same be
true of book-illumination and even pictorial
art i “The Book of Kells" makes it seem pro-
bable enough. Ireland, when that book was
illuminated, had a secret of enduring colors
such as Turner’s fading pictures in the Bri-
tish National Gallery painfully lack. Where
did that secret come from, and what were
those cojors first used for? Did great paint-
ings of Cucliulain at the fords and Deirdre
of the sorrows hang in the hall of the Uni-
versity of Tara, which Ollamh Fodla estab-
lished somewhere about the time Ptolemy II
was collecting the first books for his library?
I here is always a'maddening charm about
asking questions in expectation of an affirma-
tive answer which no one will ever be able
to give.
D. M. W.
Judas his Book
The Autobiography of Judas Iscariot, by
Fred Tresidder Sheppard, is a well-written
and imaginative book, though that sort of
work, with the finish already supplied and
plenty of scriptural padding available, isn’t
hard to write. And it is pouring water on
a drowned fish to join in the chorus against
Judah of Iverioth at this late day. It would
be bettei; to put the case for him ; and there
really is a case. According to Sheppard’s
book the man who brought the practice of
sitting 13 at dinner into disrepute and also
made Friday unlucky was better born* and
trained than _jthu rest. He was brought up
in the service of' a rich emir and afterwards
served under Pilate. He had three early
deaths to his credit—a most objectionable
boy whom he smote with a rock; a horrible
eunuch whom lie poisoned; and liis own
father, a snufflesome Pharisee, whom he
pushed downstairs. He joined the disciples
from ambition to help to rebuild the King-
dom of David with the Messiah as the new
king, but found his associates disappointing.
Peter was huge, ugly, bald, ignorant, arro-
gant and dull-witted. Lebbeus was a chat-
tering, galvanic little man who collected poor
stories of the Comic Cuts description, and
borrowed money out of the bag to buy a-
giddy parrot and an ape with a yellow
muzzle and a blue sit-down-upon. All but
Thomas and John made gobbling noises when
they ate, and they drank audibly. The
Teacher himself grew sadder and more pessi-
mistic as time went on. and the Kingdom
faded more and more. After three years
Judah of Iverioth, in a spell of revolt and
disgust, spent the contents of the bag on
wine and a girl, and then did. The Deed.
Yet a possible version is that this Phar-
isee’s son was the only intense patriot, un-
mitigated .Tew and unlimited believer in the
crowd. The movement to which he had
given three years was lagging for no visible
reason, and looked almost like a stalemate.
So. at a time when Jerusalem was full and
material for revolt Was abundant, he gave
the glove a decisive push. He posed as a
mere money-grubber when lie took the 30
shekels lest he should be Suspected of being
the most dangerous conspirator in the
empire; one who was about to create a
world-war, with a weapon on his side—the
whole power of God—compared with which
tanks and gas and airships were nothing. He
brought about the arrest of liis Master. In
other words, he dared to force the hand of
Heaven, and make it blight Pilate and his
eagles and his Roman forces, and blight
Rome itself when it came to avenge the
insult. It was the passing, fleeting chance
of all tim,e, and a big man snatched it, as
Bismarck in 1870 snatched one not a mil-
lionth part the size. The Hun man won
and the Iverioth man lost. Having lost he
killed himself, as Saul and Otho of Rome and
Samson and King Christophe of Hayti did
in far less aggravating circumstances: Judah
of Iverioth was the giant schemer of all
time. Some people may think the game was
worth the candle, after all. At least he is
remembered, while Lebbeus, who bought the
fantastic parrot and the ape with the blue
sit-down-upon, is forgotten.
J.E.
(Continued on page 28.)


Jl.
vae
Economies in Smart Summer Apparel at Anthony Horderns
1.X.84-4
IXB44.—White Jap Silk Blouse. Dainty
hemstitching and pretty embroidery
combine to make this blouse beautiful.
Well-designed roll collar has square
revers, cuffs are pointed, and pearl but-
tons finish.
PRICE 13/6
IXs.—This Dainty Blouse is designed and
developed in heavy-weight White Jap
Silk, is handsomely embroidered, has roll
collar with square revers and turn-back cuffs.
PRICE 19/11
D1604.—A Useful, Smart Frock in Check
Zephyr, daintily set off with white muslin
collar, smartly-designed pocket, self buttons to
finish.
PRICE 24/6
D1827/1. —A Chic Frock revealed in Zephyr
of a large, broken-check design, the colored
facings and buttons to tone striking an in-
dividualised note. A wide belt and newest-
style pockets add a smart finishing touch.
PRICE 29/6
Here indeed is a budget of Economies, part of an
array of splendid values for all who are seeking
smartest dress at smallest prices. Featured on this
page are chic wearables in Summer’s newest styles
in Fashion’s favorite fabrics—at purse-opening
prices representing unprecedented values.
D. 117
D.1827/1
0.1604
/.!
k
ll*
i / i!
iliilkl
*»T\
y
Td
&
m
747
D
D. 2169
41
D. 837
D. 213
n
2234-
D.837/9
43
[7 Jkil!
!'i«
t iiuim.6
1.X.860
sp
m Mm &•'
•vAsSsShrlw
i:/ I
IXB6O. —This Very Dainty Jumper is carried
out in White Jap Silk, ornamented with
hemstitching and embroidery. Square neck,
finished silk sash.
PRICE 17/6
1X657. —Innumerable pin-tucks, hemstitching and
pretty guipure insertion appear to have taken
possession of this chic Blouse of White
Organdi Muslin, designed with square neck.
PRICE 14/11
D117. —-This Delightful Costume of Fawn
Gabardine, with belted coat, is adorned with
tucked empiecement on hips and cuffs of coat.
801 l collar has deep revers, and self buttons
are used with smart effect.
PRICE £lO/19/6
D 837. —A Smart, Serviceable Costume
of Fawn Gabardine, roll collar, and
deep revers. Cord lashed through the
belt gives a touch of originality; self
buttons to finish.
PRICE £6/19/6
D837/9. —This Graceful and Pretty Costume
in Cream Serge is given an additional touch
of distinction by a shaped empiecement extend-
ing below waistline and forming box pleats on
hips. Belt and large buttons finish.
PRICE £9/17/6
D 2169. —A Useful, Dressy Skirt in Coating Serge, with side
empiecements finished cable stitching and bone buttons. Size
W. Navy, Black. /c
D 2234. —A Smart, Serviceable Skirt, in Black Resilda, for a
matron. Self strapping finished with cable stitching and novel-
designed belt sets off this garment to advantage. O.S. only.
PRICE 84“
D 747. —This is a neat style of Black Poplin Skirt, designed with
side empiecement and finished with buttons. Size W.
PRICE 35/-
Fashion Department, Third Floor, George Street.
T)213. — \ Distinguished Costume in Fawn or
Mole Cheviot Suiting. The belted coat has
shaped empiecenient adding that touch _of
“differentness.” Self buttons are used with
effect, and coat has buttons down centre of
back. /f% /
PRICE £9/9/-
Mail Order Department at Anthony Horderns’. lequirements are as thoroughly studied and attended
to as though you were shopping in person. Our Mail-order Service assures complete satisfaction.
We pay postage on Fashion Goods and Family Drapery to any part of N.S.W., and to nearest port on Inter-State and Island orders.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY • Telephone: City 9440.


m
w
S 3
sst?
A
W
%
T DS
M
GENUINE & PUDE LINSEED OIL
Development is definitely indicated by expansion in output.
In twelve years Meggitt Limited’s Linseed Oil sales have
increased over one hundredfold.
Briefly, that records the progress of the Pioneer Linseed Oil
manufacturers of Australia, and is a striking illustration of
dependability, service and performance combined in an Australian
product.
Produce and Progress—Maintain Australian Industry.
CATALOG NO. 2 MAILED FREE.
Agents:—-Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane-
Messrs. Clarkson, Ltd., Bundle Street, Adelaide; Messrs. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., King Street, Perth; Messrs. F. W. Heritage cG Co!
■Ltd., Hobart and Launceston; The National Dairy Association of N.Z., Ltd., Panama Street, Wellington, N.Z.; Messrs. Lohnston & Co!,
Ltd., Featherston Street, Wellington, N.Z.
JMEGGITT
PNSEEDORM^
/AEGGITT U*
PARRAMATTA
Otic boy on the bay
guarantees quality*
HEAD OFFICE ttG KING ST>'YM:Y^rks-.Panamatta)
Manufacturers of Linseed Oil, Cake, Meal and Stock Foods.
GGrrrs
UfISEEu
IMJ
/AEGGITT L TO W W 3
PARRAMATTA \ wm
°JAe Jboy on the hag
guarantees quality


PINKETTIS
FOR SICK HEADACHE
Most people suffer . at regular
intervals from sick-headache. The
trouble is caused by accumulation
of poison in the digestive organs
and this poison produces nausea
and the headache follows.
These distressing attacks may
be avoided. Pinkettes are dainty
little sugar-coated ovals that act
so gently that they are the ideal
laxative' to use in correcting a
tendency to sick headache. They
have no unpleasant effect to make
them objectionable to the extra-
sensitive sick-headache patient.
Old-fashioned harsh purgatives
will not do at all in such cases.
1 /3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “ Bulletin.”
The Br. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
‘TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 G.P.0., Melbourne.
THE GREATEST
MARVEL OF
THE AGE.
37/
3716
Hand Embroiderer
See Daily Demonstrations at
MARCELLES, Pitt Street, and
W. T. WATERS & CO., LTD.
Free instruction given.
CELEBRATED
83
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young—hard or soft, and
that remedy is A’CORN SILK, which
removes the worst corn in a few days, and the
sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure —it kills them. It is a painless cure—•
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
K. W. Bradley, Fltzroy Buildings, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Aberdeen House,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart.
R. H. Maxwell & Co., 18 Howard Street,
Perth, W. A. [1
X3O.
The Ideal Gift
——a Silk Bag'.
X3O is a delightful handbag to "please every
lady who likes the dainty things of dress.
It is made in smart style from black taffeta,
with a white or tortoiseshell mount, floral
lining and mirror inside.
Price 45/-
WE PAY POSTAGE.
Send for our catalogue of suitable Christmas gifts.
THE AMERICAN BAG STORES LTD.,
Corner King and Pitt Streets;
Strand Corner, Pitt Street;
Sydney Arcade, George Street;
157 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
And at 291 King Street, Newtown.
Denyer’s Triple Crush Emascuhtor.
Up-to-date stockowners should insist on the use of Denyer’s
Triple Crush Emasculator. It is the most modern pattern yet
designed—allowing quicker, easier and safer work —its use sayes
time and money and eliminates the danger of hemorrhage. This
Denyer Emasculator is indispensable to the stockowner who
considers efficiency worth while.
Write for our Catalogue
of Modern Veterinary
Instruments & Appliances.
PRICE 60/-
Postage N.S.W. 9d.
Inter-State 1/2.
DENYER BROS.
Veterinary
Specialists,
281 George Street, SYDNEY.
. .
George hotel,
St. Kild*. Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head (mice:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes' a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £41,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
a
fill* lb
Canno
Cleans I
JLegula
British
Ask for ONOro ink
n
SajK
elf.
tore.
for all Pons
SBE
\
m
GUI
and every time you “light up”
you’ll congratulate yourself
on your choice.
For the genuine French briar-
wood from which the GBD is
made is so thoroughly sea-
soned that it always gives a
sweet, cool smoke that is
highly gratifying.
There is no doubt that the
reliable London-made GBD is
the best pipe at a moderate
price.
Many Popular Shapes.
On Sale Everywhere.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Adventurer.
Over my soul the wind of adventure is blow-
ing.
(Oh, the vast sweep of the sky where the
newly-born moon
Hangs like a silver knife, symbol of beauty
and peril,
And all the unrisen stars will attend on
her soon!)
Wonder at wait on my right hand and wonder
before me,
Terror, and danger and loveliness blinding
as flame;
Abysses of death and of night, and the sum-
mits of living
Where the heart shudders and blooms at
the breath of a name.
Downward they plunge—the sheer, sable gulf
of disaster;
Upward they soar —the starpointed heights
of desire.
Life is a precipice-pathway, though we walk
• blinded,
And the strong wind of adventure blows
by us like fire.
All the wild hooves of all time sweep past
on its blowing—
Flight and pursuit and the screaming of
valkyrie steeds;
Reek of tired cities, altar-smoke, incense and
slaughter;
Savour and sound of an infinite wreckage
of deeds.
Mighty emotions that soar like shadowy
eagles,
Hazards that crouch in the pathway, like
leopards at wait—
Oh; was there ever a beauty like these, or
a peril,
Here, where the path climbs the knees of
blind wonderful Fate I
Blind ? Though the eyes are blank as a
marble-hewn idol’s,
Though the cold, unseen hands move like
hands groping in sleep,
That which made Fate is behind it, sleepless
and living;
That which drew life, death and love from
its infinite deep.
Why should we fear It, we, the adventurers,
faring
Upward ’twixt wonders and glooms where
the wind from the past
Blows like blown flame towards the future?
We from its wisdom
Came forth like all things and there shall
return at the last.
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.
Petition.
Was it for this I came? The task is done,
It may be ill or well. It is complete;
Arraign it now before the judgment seat,
And let me go before I have begun
To work anew. Too often has the sun
Beheld me in this place. The years are
fleet;
They pass so swiftly by on noiseless fedt,
And take their treasures, with them, every
one.
Now bid me to the open road ; to be,
Far as the wind-swept wide horizon, free.
Give me the ocean, and a ship to sail
The singing seas, and let me prove the tale
Of strange old cities, and of golden sands,
And all the mystery of alien lands.
VICTORIA.
G. ETHEL MARTYR.
As the Seasons Go.
There are four times for love
As the seasons come and go,
And one it .is the YVinter-ume,
The time of hail and snow,
When all the skies are grey ;
Oh, hearken then thy heart
And what it has to say —
“There’s no tire like love
To keep the cold away.”
And the next time for love,
As the seasons wane and pass,
Is when the gentle Spring lias thrown
Her robe on bush and grass,
And made the heavens blue;
Oh, hearken then thy heart,
For what it says is true —
“There’s no sun like love
To light the world for you.”
And the third time for love,
As the seasons dawn and die,
Is when the golden Summer sheds
His glory far and nigh,
A very king, in sooth ;
Oh, hearken then thy heart,
For what it says is truth —
“There’s no joy like love
To thrill the veins of youth.”
And the fourth time for love,
As the seasons go their round,
Is when the sombre Autumn spreads
Red leafage on the ground,
And piled are stack and sheaf;
Oh, hearken then tliy heart,
Its word of comfort brief —
“There’s no life like love
To quicken flower and leaf.”
There are four times for love
As the seasons go their way,
And though what seems the best of all
No man nor maid may say,
Nor Judge nor Court decide,
What says thy heart within,
Thy best and surest guide—
“ All seasons are one
Where love and peace abide!”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


4
-■ X
« V.
w
n
r--''
/&*&
m
Australia
s£>**
a***
/£.
S-A
k
X
\V
7i
'//
M
if
S
\
/
/
i
■■*
tty.
>?
'Nk;
r*
hf
:
4U.
n
IT*
*#!
■ % 'hse
1
'■' "** t -** i ''*Vj,X fc iJ>tW .Vi IVtM.
m
cOHJ
(J
x ®jSS
wasa
i
3
vj
'/I|
tm*
Vi
%
«
¥
h.
i
u
'Sv
I
v
•r?
%
?«f
fc\\
%
4mssm
i 'jfi,! hV^vt'9'iv
&0&B
V»
is
f
<2)
Triumph o/ the A.D.F.A.
E
VERY person in Australia and New Zealand will shortly
be eating his Christmas cake and pudding. And every
cake and pudding in every household will be made from
A.D.F.A. Sunraysed Fruits. This is a fine triumph for Australian
growers. Also in many parts of the world—England, America,
Norway and Sweden—the Christmas cake will be made from
A.D.F.A. Sunraysed Fruits. Slowly but surely the A.D.F.A.
are winning markets all over the world, and the day is not
far distant when more Sunraysed Fruits will be exported than
are now used in Australia.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, H.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post a. a Newspaper.
Vol. 41.—N0. 2128.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1920.
Price 9d.
THE DECAY OF PARLIAMENT.
THE DOORKEEPER: "Yessir, the building’s the same inside as it was 40 years ago, but the men aren’t the same since they shut up the old entrance and got
the hole instead. None of the large-sized gentlemen that used to come here would fit the hole. They’re quite an undersized lot now.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Map.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
terms to subscribers.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 16s. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid,
lo any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused .
Ihe contents of this paper are ■ copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
I ohtical, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs’,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. AU. communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS, is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
fTo Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.I/;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
Londgn, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Ilolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others. »
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1,1,1 Hastings Street,
T ancouver, 8.C.; The International Bookshop, Has-
tings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver, 8.C.; the
Boston Hat Works and News Co., 109 A Eighth
Avenue, West Calgary ,■ Alberta.
U.S.A.—Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; J. Roland Kay Co., 181/9
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Universal News
Co., 71, West Madison Street, Chicago, U.S.A.; Golden
Gate News Agency, 719 Market Street, Chicago;
Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.;
Bretano’s, Fifth Avenue and 27th Street, New York;
Schulte News Agency, Bryant Park, I,2nd Street and
6th Avenue, New York City; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fui.— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet—otherwise: Boz., lid.; Btoz. to 10oz..
Sd.; lOoz. to 120 z., Ssd.; elsewhere, 1/oz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1920.
MISGOVERNMENT, THE MOTHER
OF REVOLUTION.
What are the signs and symptoms of
Czarism—the political condition which is
understood to lead to revolution? Most
people will agree as to its more exasperat-
ing characteristics. The executive disre-
gards the known wishes of the majority.
Whatever mandates it gets are spurned,
unless they happen to be in keeping with-
the personal aims of those in power.
Favored treatment' is given to sections, and
almost any treatment is considered good
enough for the rest of the community. Re-
sponsibility is delegated as much as pos-
lt thus comes about that the despot
who is responsible for a nation’s anguish is
often as personally amiable a character as
John Storey, of N. S. Wales, and usually
a much more affable one than W. M.
Hughes. Nicholas 11. of Russia and
Louis XVI. of France were just the decent,
kindly, well-meaning sort of little men who
may be seen trotting home, bag in hand, to
any suburb any evening. It has been said
that the building of the palace at Versailles
produced the French Revolution. Genera-
tions of Frenchmen went without the neces-
saries of life to pay for its art treasures
and the vast galleries in which they w r ere
displayed, its garden fountains, parks and
siunmer-houses. The first and worst symp-
tom of a pei-nicious despotism is rank care-
lessness at headquarters in respeqt of the
public’s money, and a disposition to spend
it in almost any direction but that which is
most beneficial to the general body of tax-
payers. Examples can be found in every
grade, from the sovereign who enriches the
members of his vast family at his subjects’
expense, down to the military “brass hat”
who in the piping times of war takes it out
of those at home in the shape of needless
motor-car trips and similar luxuries.
* * * *
All these manifestations are in evidence
under the machine system of government
which has such a firm hold on Australia.
Every State has its Versailles, and some
have several; they keep thousands busily
employed at useless tasks, and the mere
hedge-citizen or ordinary private worker
both pays and foregoes the services he has
a right to expect. In N. S._ Wales during
last week three applications were made to
the Minister for Health. A deputation of
women urged him to proclaim the V.D. Act
which was passed and promptly shelved
nearly two years ago, and which has
remained in abeyance ever since; a South
Coast deputation referred to the ruined state
of the hospital which serves the industrial
population around Bulli; and the friends
of the Sydney Blind Institution stated that
it had no working capital, that its overdraft
amounted to £lOOO and its other debts to
£l5OO. The necessity for tackling the V.D.
curse is widely recognised nowadays in N. S.
Wales. But members of the Storey Govern-
ment, like their predecessors, explain in
effect that the position is so dreadful as to
be best left alone. They can neither get
the men nor the bricks to build the vast
edifices which would be demanded by the
State’s multitudinous sufferers if the Execu-
tive was rash enough to unchain the mea-
sure. Yet in Egypt, England and France
V.D. sufferers were successfully treated in
wooden hutments during the war, and in
the devastated parts of France thousands
are still inhabiting such buildings. Mean-
while there are here plenty of workers avail-
able apparently to erect new picture-palaces,
racecourse grandstands and other superflu-
ities. The real obstacle was blurted out by
Mr. McGirk to the petitioners from Bulli,
and it was the old one which the Bourbon
Minister had to face when the French masses
clamored for bread. “We cannot give you
vmat we have not got,” said McGirk.
There is no money in the Treasury to give
anybody.” One explanation may be that
the Treasury has just paid for seven costly
Ttoyal Commissions and is now paying for
five more, while a sixth is imminent. Prac-
tically all these inquiries originated either
in rotten government or in the desire of
one of our pocket Romanoffs to shelve
the onus of action or inaction on to the
shoulders of an irresponsible public servant.
The most recent is a case in point. The
Government is well aware that on a refer-
endum the electors would not agree to raised
salaries for M’s.L.A. in the State Parlia-
ment as at present constituted. So the
versatile Judge Edmunds has been hoisted
up as an Aunt Sally behind whose shelter-
ing form the shekels may be gathered up.
lor years past the first plank of the Labor
party s platform has been the abolition of
the costly and, meaningless imported State-
Governor system. Storey was given a man-
date to do it, and so were many of those
behind the man he supplanted, including the
man himself. It has suited successive
Executives to disregard the people’s will in
respect of this particular Versailles, as it has
suited them to continue borrowing; to un-
ceasingly create fresh Government officials,
while taking few or no steps to see they do
their work; to invent overseas jobs for the
benefit of old friends or new rivals; and
in a thousand other directions to have a
hilarious time at the expense of the protest-
ing helot behind the taxation assessment
form. The States are pretty well on a level
so far as departmental waste is concerned,
and the Commonwealth, with 24,000 Govern-
ment employees to-day as against 14,150
when the war began, overshadows all of
them.
* * *
It «s immaterial that most of these calami-
ties arise from well-meaning foolishness on
the part of those in authority. The dis-
astrous kings have mostly been the moral
ones, and the same rule applies to Premiers.
The English didn’t recall Charles I.’s love
of animals, nor did the Russians reflect
on the late Czar’s admirable qualities as a
family man; all they remembered after a
given period of misgovernment was that
their government was rotten. In their case
the initial problem to be faced was simple
Their sovereigns had failed them and the
solution was to procure a substitute. But
when there is no monarch to expiate his in-
competence-with his life, it is constitutional
government itself that must take the blame.
iNow this is the identical situation which the
revolutionaries whom men such as W M
Hughes and John Storey presumably de-
test are seeking to create. They want to
discredit Parliaments and Parliamentarians
as upholders of the capitalist system and the
State idea. It was in such a spirit that the
frenchman Sorel compared a Socialist
member of Parliament to “a marquis of the
old regime. ’ It is no longer Nationalism
versus Monarchism but -Industrialism versus
the Nation. When the State is administered
by an Executive which is honestly anxious
to carry out the people’s known will; when
there are few public scandals and little evi-
dent jobbery ; when the taxpayer’s money
is outlaid with something approaching the
care shown by a reputable company for the
funds of its shareholders—in such circum-
stances the bursters-up and the tearers-down
labor in the vineyard of destruction under a
severe handicap. But when things are other-
wise their work is relatively easy. The busi-
ness of fomenting discontent is easy through-
out the Commonwealth to-day, and it is
chiefly the politicians who are to blame for it
THE MOST FAVORED ISLE ON
EARTH.
News that straggles out from England shows
Father Bull 'toiling even harder than usual
at the old impossibility, trying to give the
lady a divorce without letting her go and
to allow her a separation while keeping her
still in the house. The idea now is that the
little Irish isle is to have two Parliaments
one for a petty fragment in the North-East
where the alien population mostly is, and the
other for the balance. There is no divid-
ing-hue between either the races or the reli-
gions. for Leinster, which belongs distinctly
to the South, is still 15 per cent, non-
Catholic; while Ulster, which all the fuss is
about; has 201 per cent, of Catholics in its
most Protestant county of Armagh. So each
autonomous little Government will have
material for a brisk civil war of its own
unless affairs simmer down, and one thing
that will prevent them simmering down is
the partition of the country. Poland was
more annoyed about being partitioned than
about being* conquered. It might have got
along as a Russian or a German or an Aus-
trian province if it had found a decent sort
ot master, but it objected to being cut up,
just as Uncle Tom> might have' objected
mo i' e s master had sawn him in two
and sold only half of him “down the river”
than he did to a complete sale. Probablv
the new double-barrelled Home Rule Ireland
wUI when it sizes up the situation, be even
madder than the old one. So strong is the
fear that members of the Southern Parlia-
ment (possibly of both Parliaments) may
reduce the. scheme to mockery by failing to
™ rn , 11 P’ J ust as they fail to turn up at
’’ ostminster, that elaborate provisions are
made for Home Ruling without them. Even
it the scheme were to be accepted it isn’t
Home Rule m the Australian or Canadian
sense, for it doesn’t include the control of
local armaments, and there are some other
leseirations. This foolish and suspicious
saving clause, based on an exaggerated idea
ot the probable size and quality of local
armaments,_ is in itself guarantee of failure.
And even if a sort of temporary content-
ment was possible it would be very tem-
porary, for Ireland would soon find that
it had sold all or .most of its share in the
control of the Empire for a very small price.
Certainly for the moment, it puts very
small value on that share—a share, by the
way that Australia never had. But the
privilege might look valuable after it was
lost,
* * * »
Ireland is now;, for its size, one of the
wealthiest places in the Empire or the world
—possibly the wealthiest. It is poor in
minerals, and Connaught at all events is no
first-class earthly paradise; but the result
has been achieved, all the same, mostly by
Bntish action, and all in a handful of years,
xhe fact that fat Erin is many times more
unmanageable than lean Erin was, because
it now has the price of a gun about it, is
only another proof that, when the lady
wants a divorce for hopeless incompatibility
ot temper, she can’t be diverted from her
purpose by the offering of a new frock and
a champagne lunch. For a long time Eng-
land tried to promote contentment in Ire-
lana by hard coercion. Then in a moment
ot despair it changed its tactics and tried
vigorous concession. It began a new finan-
cial policy in 18 10, but it only got really
into its stride about 1885, and it didn’t raise
™e„Pace to a gallop till 1903. About
£lUb,(J0O,000 was raised at or 3 per cent
and advanced at the lowest" possible figure
to buy out the old big landlords. Compared
with the market price of money then, and
still more compared with it now, this
amounted to making the tenant a part-gift
of the soil. . Millions more were advanced
for the building of cottages, and this money
also was so cheap that the peasant can get
a comfortable home for less than half the
cost of a similar place in Britain. In 1917
there were 367,058 Irish farmers who owned
the land they tilled, and, if five is considered
a family, that showed nearly one-half the
population lifted to respectable independence.
Only 1967 properties of over 500 acres
remained. On the 32,586 square miles of
Ireland there were in 1917 572,574 separate
holdings (those described above and a num-
ber which still remained in the tenant stage),
while 88,745 square miles of Great Britain
so far remained in the hands of the big
monopolist that they were only divided, even
as late as 1919, into 492.511 holdings. Scot-
land. almost the same size as Ireland, was
subdivided into a mere 75,843. But, then,
it wasn’t till 38 years after the Irish land-
lord began to be disturbed that the idea
arose of doing something to cut up the estates
of the bigger island. Further, for the benefit
of_ the 205,516 tenant farmers of Ireland a
fair rents law was passed, in 1881. Rents
were fixed for 15 years, so there have been
three fixings, and each time there has been
a solid reduction.
®
With these and other aids agriculture
began to boom. Ireland now beats Scotland
badly in the production of wheat, barley,
oats (supposed to be a Scottish staple),
potatoes (nearly fourfold) and hay (nearly
fivefold). The little island has (1917
figures) 1,600,000 more cattle than N. S.
Wales, which is nearly ten times its size;
only a few less horses; more pigs than the
entire Commonwealth ; twice as many sheep
as Tasmania, which is a place of 26,215
square miles as compared with Ireland’s
32,586 miles, and five times as many poultry
as N. S. Wales can show. With only 134
persons per square mile as against about
000 in England, it is a land of surplus,
with a huge market kept open by England
a few hours away—not at the other side
of the world like ours. It isn’t cursed, as
Australia is, with bloated cities. Though it
is not so very far short of Australia in
population, its biggest centre isn’t half the
size of Sydney, and its third largest city
(Cork) is not much more than a quarter
the size of Australia’s third (Adelaide). At
latest advices the Irish banks held almost as
much gold and silver as all the joint-stock
banks of Australia, though Ireland has no
gold-mines. When the last trade figures
were published (those for 1916) Ireland’s
exports of its own produce for the year were
valued at £24 10s. per head against Aus-
tralia s £l9 10s. Only once did Australia
get a little in front of the Irish record, for
a land where the jocund soil makes a point
of not giving less per acre than 35 bushels
of wheat and 41 of barley and 48 of oats
has lots to sell. Even -England shows no-
thing like that. Certainly, Ireland lacks
the chief raw material for manufacture; but
in that respect Denmark, Spain and Italy
are in the same boat. It was relieved of
the burden of its Established Church 4S
years ago, while Wales, where the church
wafe about equally foreign, had to endure it
till a few months back. It is exempt from
very much of the local taxation which
Britain pays. It escaped the principal bur-
den of military service during the Great
War, so that it could. devote its energies to
money-getting. Of its four railway com-
panies three rank among the best paying
in the United Kingdom and yield surprising
dividends. Taking one thing with another, it
is natural that emigration from such a land
should go out of fashion. For some time
before 18G0 departures were at the average
i‘ate of 92,000 a year. From then to 1870
they were at the rate of 82,000 a year. After
that they trailed off to next to nothing.
* * * -*
This hurst of prosperity can’t, of course,
be regarded as quite solid and permanent.
Inside a dozen years, up to 1910, a popula-
tion. only about five- times that of Sydney
r™?non*nnr/ r . om the Oppressor about
£ 1 0,000,000 in compulsory loans at merely
nominal interest—loans almost shoved on
the country at the point of the bayonet in
hopes that the Irish question would be there-
by solved. This was in addition to previous
sums. Even N. S. Wales, cadging its hard-
est and offering high interest, didn’t make
quite such a pace: AH this led to a boom,
which hasn t been wholly beneficial to the
Irish nation, and which is likely to be bad
tor the Oppressor, whose prospect of getting
back his money is poor. Still the prosperity
is there, and considering that all the benefits
bestowed have only made the lady more
resolute about her complete divorce (they
not being the benefits she asked for), it is
hard to see what can be done save let her
have it. It does the Empire no good that
Ireland is rich if it doesn’t pay anything
like its share towards the upkeep of the
Empire. It might be possible to collect
some back debts from an independent Ire-
land from which the British population had
been withdrawn, but from the present Ire-
land it is difficult to gather much. So far as
experience goes autonomy never seriouslv
diminished. the dissatisfaction of a com-
munity which aimed at complete separation,
ft basnt converted the French-Canadiaiis
into much more than passive friends, though
the habit of open revolt has died out. It
hasn t converted the Boers, however much
Boer politicians with interests to serve and
axes to; grind may aver to the contrary.
Everything points to the heroic remedy of
the withdrawal of the British power from
the island and as many as will come of the
British population—now mainly a landless
population—and the repatriation of some
millions of people of Irish birth or Irish
parentage to make room for them.
THE PASSING OF THE C.O. SPIRIT.
Generations of Australian schoolboys have
been vaguely puzzled by England’s abhor-
rence of a standing army. Why should
there have been such joy throughout the
rank and file of the nation at the disbanding
of the New Model? What made the English
people so anxious for control in this respect
that they insisted two and a half centuries
ago that their army should die, so to speak,
every year, and only come to life again at
the behest of Parliament —a provision of the
first Mutiny Act which is perpetuated to
this day in the Army Act? In remote
and peaceful lands such as ours it took a
very bright and imaginative lad indeed to
appreciate what all the fuss was about. There
are many thousands now in Australia who
learned things in the late war which no
teacher could have instilled into them in a
class-room. One of these things is that
a national army represents a great
deal more than so many brigades of
brave young men' in uniform. The
soldiers endure horrible experiences and
perhaps death, with the result that they
return to civilian life, if they are fortunate
enough to return at all, changed men. But
meantime a change no less tremendous has
been taking place in those who stayed behind.
An army of any size, whether it never sees
service, as was the case with successive Ger-
man armies, or is put into the line immedi-
acy it is ready, as wa!s the case with the
A.1.F., produces a definite frame of mind in
its organisers and directors at home as well
as those in the field. Roughly, it is the frame
of mind of the typical Base Camp C.O.
Ihere arises a lust not only for authority
but for the constant manifestation of it";
there is a love of interference for its own
sake, and a tendency to regard a desire for
liberty as a sign of a disaffected and even
dangerous character. Anything approach-
ing freedom of speech becomes mutinous or
seditious language. The individual who fails
to conform to type is dealt with as a public
offender. Most people are too intellectually
indolent to analyse social processes. They
conform, like the fighting-men. So the latter
return to find themselves up against a dis-
cipline as drastic in the essentials as any-
thing they knew on active service.
* * * #
C, M. Hughes is by temperament a typi-
cal C.O.——back-area variety. His spiritual
home is some such place as Cairo or Le
Havre or Zabern. There were suggestions
of his domineering quality when, as a Labor-
ite, he repeatedly banged his mailed fist on
the table belonging to the Waterside
Workers of Sydney, and as often converted
them thereby from abusive dissent to humble
acquiescence. The outbreak of the world-
war and his adoption of the Conservative
ticket provided the wider scope which he
needed for the full display of his powers.
It is doubtful if one citizen in 10 realises
how far the Commonwealth has wandered
off the path of freedom and justice under
Hughes’s guidance: for, as said just now,
the average person with a living to earn is
disinclined to speculate on subjects which
appear to be of no immediate personal in-
terest to him. It is not till one of the new
rules is broken that the offender appreciates
with a stab of indignation that things have
changed since 1914—that though the Prus-
sian enemy of freedom is down and out, his
business still lives, and is being carried on
briskly at another address. Opinions may
differ as to the taste displayed by Hugh
Mahon in his recent remarks about the
British Empire. Bigger men— Campbell
Bannerman, Morley, Bryce, even Lloyd
George —have ail said worse things, though
in politer language. . But this is certain :
Maiion would not have been expelled from
any Parliament in the Empire for making
his remarks in the days before a million
Britishers had given their lives in the cause
of liberty. The principle in existence before
the war—a principle that W. M. Hughes
has taken advantage of as freely as any


THE HUNDRED BEST.
The CHRISTMAS BULLETIN —
a special number—to be published
on Saturday, December 11, will
include work by the hundred best
artists and writers of Australia. It
is to be sold at the same price as an
ordinary number —ninepence.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 11.
man in his time—was that every citizen had
the right to state his political views, so
long as he said nothing which conflicted
with the criminal laws, and in any language
provided it was not such as called for police
action on the grounds of obscenity, blas-
phemy or what not. Hughes and his hench-
man Cook go even further than to assert
that Republican and violent critics of the
Lloyd George Government should be barred
from sitting in Parliament. The new for-
mula is: “Those who don’t approve of the
Empire must get out of it.” This means,
if it means anything at all, that all criticism
of the administration of the vast organisa-
tion on whose efficient working our national
security depends must be dropped unde*
threat of deportation. The wooden-headed
careerists, the history of whose ghastly mis-
takes is largely the history of the past six
years, must be left to their own devices, the
duty of the non-official classes merely being
to pay or die as required. Such medieval-
isms may be cheered by other officials and
by a few outsiders who cannot see where
theories of the sort lead, but it is a comfort-
ing reflection that they are unlikely to be
swallowed for long by the nation as a
whole. # #
The reflection in question is engendered
by the spectacle of what is happening to
the Hugheses of the rest of the world.
Clemenceau fell the moment his work was
done. The French are a clear-headed and
unsentimental people; they have had bitter
experiences with autocrats; and know
a dangerous man when they see one. Wil-
son, the idol of the U.S.A. and the hope
of the world two or -three years ago, has
been pushed aside, apparently forever, and
his policy has been turned down by the
largest majority on record. The Greeks
have decided that even a king was prefer-
able to the constitutional despot who con-
trolled their destinies in Constantine’s
absence. “I am called a tyrant,” said
Yenizelos on leaving Greece last week.
“But, unlike a tyrant, I give place to others.”
If it is tyrannical to censor the Opposition
press in time of peace, to imprison Parlia-
mentary critics without trial, and to permit
prominent civilians on the other side to be
murdered and their houses, rifled, then Veni-
zkLOS was a tyrant; and he is giving place
to others only because his countrymen have
had the chance to demonstrate their senti-
ments in regard to him. There are clear
signs that Lloyd George will presently go
the same way in Britain as W. M. Hughes
is fated to do here. They stand all of them
for camp rule, a state of affairs which
savages will put up with because they know
no better, and which soldiers will endure for
a great ideal, but which intelligent and high-
spirited nations have always found unbear-
able.
THE SINNER WHO HASN’T
REPENTED.
Spurned by the tribe of Judah, and with
his majority reduced from 20 to four, Pre-
mier Theodore met Parliament in a chas-
tened spirit. Gloomily he remarked that it
used to be as easy to govern Queensland, 1
according to Tom jo notions of government,
as falling into a drain or rolling down a
steep place into the sea. With a note of
rapture in his anguish he recalled that “we
used to be able to get money simply by
asking for it,” and “simply by asking
for it” he and other financial profligates
added £25,384,296 (i.e., 57J per cent.) to the
public debt in ten years. But in a gay and
thoughtless moment he decided to put
£9,000,000 on to the £25,384,296 and 13
per cent, on to the 57J, which would have
broken the world’s record for rapid borrow-
ing by a State not itself engaged in war.
That was the last straw that gave the camel
the hump. Then was it conveyed to the
improvident gentleman that if he asked until
he was black in the face he wouldn’t get a
bean. With brutal candor he was informed
that the halcyon days of asking and receiv-
ing were gone for ever.
When the victim of oppression recounted
the circumstances to Parliament the memory
of this insult temporarily overcame him.
He implored the Opposition, “in view of the
unusual circumsthnces in which we find our-
selves, to come to our assistance.” In a
burst of , emotion he appealed to his opponents
—whose warnings have been derided and who
have been blackguarded up hill and down
dale —to “eliminate rancor.” He hoped
they would all agree to “let the dead
past bury its dead.” The trouble is that
Theodore’s past is the sort of past thah
can’t be effectually buried. The ghost of it
arrives every quarter-day with a bill in his
grisly hand. The curse of his own folly is on
Theodore, and he can’t escape it. Having
created his monster this Queensland Frank-
enstein doesn’t know how to handle it or to
get away. Dark as the outlook is, he is still
spending £320,000 a month out of the
evanescent loan fund. He talks of. raising
a local loan of £2,000,000 and threatens to
apply compulsion, but at the rate of ex-
penditure he proposes (“something below
£3,000,000 this year”) the money won’t last
out 1921 even if he gets it all, and it is
questionable if he will get it. He can’t
wring forced loans from people in the other
States. He has only a small population
to work on, and that population, since the
Labor party took office, has been subjected
to the highest direct taxation in the Com-
monwealth. Since 1915-16 the amount ex-
torted by income-tax has grown from
£766,560 to £2,023,316 a nearly three-fold
increase. The land-tax in 1915-16 yielded
£247,044; in 1919-20 it produced £459,188, or
85.9 per cent. more. The stamp duties in-
creased in the same period from £322,011 to
£698,382 —that is, they were more than
doubled.
* * * *
A’ people that has been smitten in that
fashion and has had to pay war-taxation on
top of it may yield huge forced loans, but
it is at least doubtful. And it won’t stimu-
late their enthusiasm to know that a large
part of, the money to be extorted from them
is wanted for railways. The Auditor-Gen-
eral’s, report, which wasn’t published before
the elections, deals luminously with the rail-
ways. Although the railway revenue shows
an increase of £964,099 (freights and fares
raised on January 1 accounted for £837,150),
swollen expenditure and interest absorbed
that sum, and £1,229,579 more. In five
years, under Tomjo and Theodore direc-
tion, the railways have achieved a deficit of
£4,924,547. The earnings during that period
increased 29.44 per cent, and the expendi-
ture 80.02 per cent. Fares went up 17
per cent, .and freights 19 per cent., and there
are 3000 more names on the pay-sheets
than there were before Tomjo and Theo-
dore came along. In 1919-20, 21 railway
sections (Brisbane-Toowoomba, Brisbane-
Sandgate and South Brisbane-Tweed among
them) paid working expenses, but not the
full interest on capital. Fourteen paid
working expenses but no interest. Sixty
returned neither interest nor working
expenses, and 32 of them were in the South !
It is possible that the capital for the con-
struction of a few more of these melan-
choly sinks for money can be extorted from
the foreign companies that the Premier be-
labored so sturdily before election. But
considering that the taxable income earned
by foreign companies amounted last year to
a mere £2.537,022, the prospect isn’t hope-
ful. However, in the general dubiety and
gloom of things it is consoling to learn that
the political gentry who have brought
Queensland to its present pass are not suf-
fering. It cost £2413 to transport Agent-
General Hunter from Brisbane to Southamp-
ton, banquets, receptions, special trains and
“refreshments on the way” thrown in.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Age of Unreason.
Many people are trying to identify the brick
which lately fell on this country’s head to the
great damage of its commercial senses and
are making little progress. Yet it is a. very
obvious brick. For various reasons local
production, instead of increasing to keep
pace with the increase of population, has
been actually diminishing. The reasons in-
clude strikes, going-slow, no Saturday work,
and the increasing inefficiency of a country
where the policy has been, for 20 years or
so, to prevent boys learning trades, so that
the unemployable have become like Senna-
cherib’s host, only not dead as was that
unestimable body and removed from the un-
employed ranks. Other reasons are the fran-
tic desire of the Hughes and Storey and
Theodore and some other Governments to
appoint everybody to an office-stool in a
new and costly “bureau,” or to find everybody
a railway job, or a billet as inspector or com-
mon informer under a profiteering law. Ih
the lack of local products there is a tendency
to import more furiously even than usual,
and as the country is reeking with money of
a sort and bogged with currency, including
£23,000,000 of £lOOO notes, why shouldn’t it
import? So the man with £lO,OOO worth of
imported goods to pay for gaily handed
£lO,OOO worth of paper and some more paper
for exchange to a bank here, and received a
paper telling the bank’s branch in London to
pay for the goods in gold, our notes being
only pipe-lights outside Australia. And all
went as merrily as a marriage bell till the
banks wired that there was only about
half a sovereign in gold standing to
Australia’s credit in London, and that
payment was simply impossible no matter
how much paper there might be here.
That was a hint that things have gone
wrong in Bullopolis. A lot of the goods
that have been exported of late were for
the Bull Government which had paid for
them two years earlier, consequently that
money was spent long ago. Wool prices
have slumped badly, and the demand has
slumped worse, partly through fears of
more trouble ahead and partly because
Argentine has annexed some of our sheep-job.
Great quantities of wool therefore remain
unsold, and some more money isn’t coming
in. And the Hun indemnity isn’t coming
in either. Theodore, of Queensland, tried
to float a monumental loan which would
have put £9,000,000 of real money to this
country’s credit. He failed, and that is
more money that isn’t coming in. Storey’s
£2.500,000 English loan was spent in about
a day and a half, and his £4,000,000 English
loan hasn’t begun to come in yet, and is
spent in advance. All the gold that the
Commonwealth produces is being shipped
away to pay for shirts and things, but even
then the imports for July and August (no
later complete returns are available) were
nearly £7,000.000 more, than the exports,
and the £19,000,000 of exports were sup-
posed to pay not only for the £26,000,000
of imports but also millions of interest and
some old debts as well. As two wouldn’t
go into one and leave three over, something
broke. The drunken country was importing
during these two months at the rate of
£156,000,000 a year, which meant that its
buyings were twice as large as those of
the same period last year, while its sellings
were less, partly because its loafings were
more. The duties collected (in paper of no
value outside the Commonwealth) swelled
the revenue so much that the Government
went off any little head that remained to
it and appointed nearly everybody to a
Government job. Also, the Federal public
servants, who are really an ill-paid body,
demanded a rise; and the waterside work-
ers evolved a claim for a new scale of wages
running from 3s. 6d. to 10s. 6d. per hour;
and Austin Chapman, M.H.R., wanted the
Canberra capital (in his own district, of
course) built more instantaneously than
ever. It is urged that the modest stock of
gold, the remains of old accumulations, in
the Australian banks should be shipped to
London to pay for things that we should
do without or make for ourselves; but
though it does little active service here its
departure might make the foetid breath of
suspicion blow on our credit, and it can’t
stand being breathed on. Never before was
there so much useless money in Australia
or so thick a coating of whitewash on the
sepulchre. Yet it is such a big sepulchre
that when Premier Theodore talked loan in
the United States, the people there talked back
of anything from to 13 per cent, interest,
and tacked special conditions on to that.
Theodore now threatens a compulsory loan
in his own State, but that will be only
paper, after all, and it won’t repay the mil-
lion that the Premier borrowed in [ jon r p < .’ 11
for a year to pay his interest bill with. The
Gilded Age is going strong, and the Age ot
Reason is suspended.
The Federal Public Starvice.
Federal public servants —the rank and file,
anyhow—are a poorly paid lot, and their
semi-insurrectionary demand for more money
excites a lot of sympathy, lederal Min-
isters deserve some also, though not mucn.
The Commonwealth is lamentably m debt
because of the war, because of ill-managed
repatriation schemes, because of the Can-
berra swindle and because (among other
things) of the transcontinental line which
ambles for 1250 miles without sighting fresh
water, and about 400 miles without sighting
a tree, and which supplies a new road that
is longer than the old sea-route, and leads
to a dying goldfield and an isolated patch
of fertility. Yet, bad as it is, the Common-
wealth has tried to avoid the shameless dis-
honesty of State Governments which borrow
and sell posterity into bondage merely to
make a high-wage boom. It could compete
with the States on their own ground it it
was as fraudulent as they are, but its frag-
ment of a conscience is against it. So it
suffers by comparison, just as the seller ot
purchased goods does in comparison with
the cut prices of the seller of stolen goods.
That is the good side of the case. The bad
side is that Fisher (who was in four Min-
istries, of which he led three) and Hughes
(who was in seven Ministries, of which he led
three) departed from the brief early tradition
of economy and loaded up the ordinary expen-
diture account with masses of superfluous
officials who can’t be all paid out of revenue.
Australia House in London, that yawning
desolation swarming with functionaries who
hardly even know where Australia is; the
Northern Territory, where almost every
second white man is a sort of Chancellor and
every third one a sort of Lord Privy Seal;
the born-dead Federal capital; the rage to
create new departments and bureaux; the
rage to send out ambassadors and commis-
sioners—these and other things have made
a lot of trouble. Even simple correspond-
ence with a Federal department is a misery
owing to the formalities which mean useless
employees and the acres of thick paper on
which big officials acknowledge that Smith’s
communication has been received and has
been dropped into Circumlocution. Australia
doesn’t want £3-per-week-minimum clerks in
its employ. It would prefer £6 clerks and
half the number. Then there would be less
dissatisfaction, not so dangerously formid-
able a civil service vote, and a crowd of men
available for outside work which is now
left undone to the great loss of the country.
And the work with a careful selection of
officials should be better done. A 60-bob
man doesn’t know how to save labor and
take short cuts to efficiency. If he did
he wouldn’t be a 60-bob man.
♦ )
Our Republic—God Bless It!
Dear Bulletin, —I see quite a number of
drawbacks about Hugh Mahon’s passionate
demand that Australia should establish a
republic because Mr. McSwiney, who had
been several times convicted and let off, is no
more by his own act. This country didn’t
secede and found a republic when the previous
Lord Mayor of Cork, Me,Curtain, was exe-
cuted on suspicion, without a hearing and
without the sacraments; and why secede over
one Mayor and not another? If we did
found a republic there is no guarantee that
Mr. Mahon would stay and help to defend
it. He doesn’t belong here, and he would
probably go back to his own republic and
leave us to struggle for life on our own. He
is not only an old man, but he is unreliable
—a person with long spells of torpor, like
a bear hibernating, and sudden brief spells
of blast and dash and cuss. That is to
say, he lacks the sound, reliable, ox-like
quality which hauls a bogged republic out
.of the mire in a time of stress, and is more
of the unpractical but gaudy zebra. Any-
how, if we did instal a republic, encouraged
thereto by Mahon and Tom Walsh and
Considine and the rest of the small local
Irish minority, would they regard them-
selves as the founders, godfathers, Pil-
grim Fathers, heavy fathers and George
Washingtons of the new concern, and con-
sider the majority basely ungrateful if they
weren’t allowed to run it? And would they
contrive to run it, thanks to the clannish-
ness which makes them equal to a secret
society or an army of occupation and which
prevails over unorganised numbers —-the sort
of centralised quality which enabled 60,000
Normans and sundries to boss England, and
the Manchus to run China, and a very
moderate horde of Turks to sit hard on a
dozen nations? They do something of the
sort just now in N. S. Wales, and they make
no disguise of the fact that, like the Ger-
mans, they consider ruling their divinely-
appointed job. Also, would they send unani-
mously for Brother Mike to come from the
Old Country and help to govern us? In
short, is it proposed that our nominal re-
public should really be Ireland’s first colony
and we should be the aborigines? I think
it would be. best to wait and see how the
Irish republic, at present run by a concealed
Parliament and an absentee President, gets
on. The Australian situation is peculiar.
Our independent State would have about a
hundred times as much country to defend as
Ireland and jiot many more defenders. The
worst that could happen to Ireland if its
new Government didn’t last would be annexa-
tion to some adjacent country, and all the
adjacent countries are white, Christian,
highly-civilised, more or less humane and
experienced in the art of self-government.
If a small race really didn’t want to belong
to itself it could liardlv ask anything better
than to hitch its little car on to the
waggon of France, Spain or Britain, and
share its great traditions. On the other hand
the worst —the very probable worst —for
a prematurely independent Australia would
be annexation by an Asiatic race, with
the loss of our color, religion, habit-
ual brand of civilisation, self-governing
rights, trades unions, eight-hour system
etc. —in fact, Asiatic rule more or less of
the sort that Turks, Magyars, Tartars and
Huns have at times served out to Europeans.
It would be lost among strangers like the
Greeks whom Alexander left in the Hindu
Khoosh or the mislaid Danish colony in
Greenland. Had the Germans grown strong
in the Pacific they would almost certainly
have stolen our new republic when they were
in a position to steal anything ; and njeantime
they would have let no brown or yellow man-
darins take it, and the Germans are white,
whatever else they are. Now they are gone
and a very ambitious Asiatic Power has come
a long way nearer us instead, liwen it tne
republic didn’t lose the whole of its territoiy
at once the pitiable failure of its attempt to
settle its northern and north-western 70 per
cent, would lead to its title being brushed
aside as of no account. And the failure is
not because the land is bad or the Aus-
tralian an unfit settler, but because of
rotten misgovern ment. Before the middle
of last century there was a new colony up
north with a capital at Gladstone. The
capital was dismantled, the colony dissolved,
and the throne and Crown jewels moved 6tZ
miles south to Brisbane. Thirty-two years
ago the only tropical bank Australia ever
possessed—the Bank of North Queensland
opened at Townsville. But no one had the
sense or courage to cut the North into new
States with capitals that would grow as
Brisbane did, and there was no profitable
Government business Jto be done at a pro-
vincial town. So after a short five years the
head office shifted 748 miles south to Bris-
bane. Some 31 years ago gigantic meat
works worth a million opened near Port
Darwin. For want of the promised direct
railway connection with • Adelaide:, where
there are sane and fairly honest people, it
was an isolated enterprise, and it' was looted
and harassed to death. The case of the
North is one of starvation, like McSwiney’s,
but not one of hunger strike. Hugh
Mahon and his friends don’t lift a finger
to remedy these evils —in fact, they care .so
little for Australia that they don’t even raise
a perspiration about Home Rule for the
North, which wants it 20 times more than
rich and flourishing Ireland. Till the wast-
ing disease is remedied the republic is “off,”
and even when the remedy is found it isn't
likely to be “on” till there is more assurance
that it won’t mean government by imported
Brother Mike. —Yours, etc., James Edmond.
♦
Dr. Squills His Bills.
“Macquarie Street” on pending changes:—
In an endeavor to lay the profiteering devil by the
heels, the N. S. Wales Government intends to focus
a searchlight upon medical charges, and believes that
a little investigation will reveal a horrible state of
affairs, that doctors are “worse than lawyers” at
piling up charges, and especially that the bills that
medical attendants send in after the decease of a
patient are really shocking and require to be heavily
pruned by an. inflexible taxing officer. Therefore, it
behoves the profession to put its house in order
betimes, for when the Medical Practitioners’ Charges
Bill becomes law the present loose method of making
up accounts will have to be radically altered.
In the first place patients will expect the items
to be set forth in detail, and not left to the imagina-
tion. The public will want to know exactly what
it is paying for, and the items will be gone over
by the housewife one by one, just as in the case of
the grocer’s or the milkman’s bill. The casual
doctor’s bill of the past, in which even the number
of visits has not been stated, has simply been an
instigation to a casual reception. Add to that the
common inclination of mankind when well to forget
its sickness, and you have the main reason why
professional men aim at consulting practice, where
the spot-cash system is in vogue. Lawyers do not
think it unprofessional, or wanting in dignity, to
include even trifles in their bill 3 of costs; and the
medical profession will have to do the same thing or
suffer for it. As for patients, they will have to learn
that there is no necessity to hide a fee on the
mantelpiece, as is sometimes done even at the present
day by old-fashioned ladies who think that a doctor
will be mortally offended if the fee is placed in his
hand.
Another effect of the taxation bill will be to
tighten up the loose methods prevailing with regard
to the sending in of accounts. When payment is
regarded as perfectly safe, great laxity is, as a rule,
shown by the medical attendant; I have known
many months to elapse, and in some instances even
two and three years, before the doctor has thought it
necessary to increase his banking account by proffer-
ing his bill. Once the N. S. Wales measure becomes
law, there will be less of this unbusinesslike conduct,
since .any laxity in this direction frould more than
likely land the perpetrator before the taxing authority.
There are bound to be ructions about fees for
operations under the new system, and the best thing
for the B.M.A. to do is to draw up a scale applic-
able to every possible operation for the guidance of
practitioners and the enlightenment of the public.
If this is not done the only remedy will be to
demand the fees before the operation takes place.
This is already done by some surgeons who have
lost faith in the promises of patients. It is a good
plan, too. The council of the Ophthalmologieal
Society set an example years ago by drawing up a
scale of fees for every ophthalmic operation, and
getting it printed upon cards which were for-
warded to members of the society. What can be
done by one specialty can be done by another. Such
a simple scheme would prevent tons of argument and
give the operator confidence that his fee was not
in danger of attack.
Consultation fees in Macquarie-street vary with the
status of the practitioner. Specialists charge two
guineas for the first consultation and one guinea
for each subsequent visit; but the majority of the
doctors in “the street” are satisfied with 10s. 6d.
per visit. There is no profiteering about that.
Visiting and consultation fees in W.A. were the
same as ours, but the doctors there recently deter-
mined on an advance of 25 per cent. It is on the
cards that B.M.A. doctors in N. S. Wales will shortly
follow suit. Fees in suburban practice are moderate
enough, 7s. 6d. being charged in the poorer suburbs,
for both consultation and visit, whereas in the better-
class districts 10s. 6d. is charged for- a visit to
the house. If the profession sticks to these charges
there will be little fear of anyone being summoned


vr
: N v
m
o
im
ft
he Centre
hT"
T
The Premier Hotel of Australia. SYDNEY.
New Tariff—Room Only Rates.
All meals served a la carte.
Suites and Rooms with private bath.
Automatic Telephones in every room.
Stenographer and Private Office for use of Guests.
Prompt attention given to communications addressed
The Manager.
r Oe
‘Australia"
Wmfer Garden
m
mm
( :U
IJH
r
sheviks, were in the same train with Lenin from
Switzerland through Germany.
The Prince then tells us that he is quite a demo-
crat. He says: “I have myself been through the
ranks, as under Russian law I was obliged to join
as a volunteer, and had to groom my horse and do
all the other duties with the rest of the soldiers.”
A Prince in the Cavalier Guards doing all the duties
of a common soldier! That is a good joke! lam
not a prince or a noble. lam an hereditary peasant.
But after a horrible struggle I obtained sufficient
education to enable me also to enter the army as a
volunteer, and during my voluntary service I didn’t
have once to clean my own rifle. And our regiment was a
provincial infantry regiment. To get into the
Cavalier Guards one had to be either an hereditary
millionaire or an hereditary landlord.
Prince Obolensky must be thankful indeed to find
himself here, in Australia, and not swinging some-
where on a lamp-post. As a matter of fact it is
owing to the mildness and natural kindness of the
Russian masses that most of these gentry are alive
and safe, not only abroad, but even in Russia. In-
deed, Mr. Obolensky is welcome to Soviet Russia
as is any other Russian, but only on condition that
he will become a useful citizen, doing his best to
the community, according to his abilities, and enjoy-
ing equal rights with all the citizens of all the
country. Premier Lenin is enjoying exactly the
same rights, and drawing exactly the same wages, as
any other working citizen of the country, no more
and no less.
♦ ■ —
The Government that Floats Two
Loans at Once.
There are many outstanding features in the
N. S. Wales budget, but none outstand more
than these: that it expects to require
to attend the court. But the practitioner will have
the possibilities in his mind, and in cases of sickness
where there is a chance of the patient being con-
fined to his bed for a long period nobody will have
cause to grumble if the attendant insists upon
weekly or monthly payments.
Mr. Hickey's bill will do some good; but time
alone will show its author whether it comes up to
his expectations. It is certainly going to have a
recoil.
Putting the Blame on the Fish.
“Corrigenda,” who says he has been in the
business himself: —
It is true that the Australians are the only
islanders in the world who depend on foreign enter-
prise for the bulk of the fish they eat (B. 11/11/’2O),
and they will probably continue to do so. If the
State could show substantial proof of the existence
of the alleged vast mine of wealth off our coast
numbers of people would work it, but the average catch
of the N. S. Wales Government trawlers does not prove
the case. The canning industry has been tried many
times and proved a dead failure simply because we
cannot produce sufficient fish to keep the industry
going. The whole question amounts to this: the
variety and quantity of fish are not in the Aus-
tralian coastal waters. The waters along our coast-
line are clear and blue, and contain but little fish
food, whilst those north of the equator are muddy
and teeming with fish food. Consequently most of
our fishes go up the estuaries to spawn where food
is abundant, whilst those north of the line shed
their spawn along the coast and in the bays.
Which amounts to nothing more than a series
of general statements, most of them prepos-
terous. The Mediterranean is clearer and
bluer than “the waters along our coastline,’’
but that hasn’t prevented it from supporting
a large population of fishermen for thousands
of years. Even in 1915 there were over
26,000 Italian boats and 155,000 Italian
men engaged in the Mediterranean fisheries
—not counting the factories —and Italy is
only one of the Mediterranean States. Sea-
fisheries are conditioned, not by the clearness
or muddiness of the water, but by the pre-
valence of plankton— i.e ., the floating minute
life of the sea on which edible fish feed —-
and there is nothing to show that the seas
which wash Australia are deficient in
plankton; the point has never been tested.
There is a theory, as Professor Herdman
states, that “the genial warm waters of the
tropics support a less abundant plankton
than the cold polar seas,” but it is stoutly
disputed by some investigators, and “there
are marked exceptions to the generalisation.
Koford and Agassiz have recorded large
hauls of plankton in the Humboldt current
off the west coast of America, and during
the Challenger expedition some of the
largest quantities of plankton were found in
the equatorial Pacific.” Australian experi-
ence also gives the theory a knock. Prob-
ably the best fishing ground yet discovered
in the Commonwealth is Shark Bay, which
is close up to the tropics; and at Port Hed-
land, north of Capricorn, the deeds of the
tarpon- and bonito-fishermen of North
America are rivalled by those of a coterie
of anglers headed by the local editor. As
for the N. S. Wales Government trawlers,
the three boats in commission last year
averaged 440 tons of fish apiece. That does
not look like the deficiency alleged by “Corri-
genda,” and N. S. Wales has only 700 miles
of a coast-line of 12,210 miles. ( The Com-
monwealth Statistician is better informed
and takes a wider view. “All reports agree,”
says Ivnibbs, “that there is, off the coast, a
bountiful harvest of fish. Australasia
possesses an abundant and varied fish fauna,
which embraces both tropical and temperate
varieties. With satisfactory handling the
product of the sea would become an article
of food for the poorer classes, and a valuable
industry would be developed, for it is
adequate to supply the demand, however
strong.” But the “satisfactory handling”
hasn’t arrived, and neither has the “valu-
able industry,” nor the auxiliary force of
fishermen so necessary, as the war showed,
to the naval defence of a sea-girt country ;
and it is futile to blame the fish.
♦
The ’Offs and the ’Enskys.
Peter Simonoff talks about a Prince:—
I (have been reading the daily press interviews
with a certain Prince Obolensky, who has come
from England to Australia to sell pneumatic eleva-
tors. It is stated that Prince Obolensky was a
Russian noble of assured position, wealthy, the
owner of great estates and an officer of the Czar’s
Cavalier Guards. This is sufficient for every Rus-
sian to know that until the revolution this gentle-
man had never done five minutes’ work in his life.
It is quite natural to hear from him all sorts of
horrible things about the Bolsheviks. The illus-
trious one tells us that “it \\*as in the interests of
the Germans to create Bolshevism, and through it
to annihilate our army. Lenin and Trotsky were
discovered in Switzerland by the organisers of this
movement, and brought through Germany into
Russia.” The Prince does not know, evidently, that
Trotsky came from America, not from Switzerland ;
nor does he tell us that Tchernoff, the leading
organiser for Denikin and Kolchak, and scores of
others who were and are figjiting against the 80l-
THE SIMULTANEOUS DRINKER.
“The N. S. Wales Government has now two loans on the market—£3,000,000 at 5½ per cent, in
Sydney, and £4,000,000 at 6½ per cent, in London.”
HIS FRIEND : “I say, John, old man, this is going it too hard. Eve know fellows to
have them in pretty quick succession, hut when it conies to two rums at once
people begin to talk. IPs plain D.T.’s, John!”
THE MA STATE PREMIER: “Hid”
£38.000.000 of revenue (including two or
three millions of new taxation) and at least
£14,000,000 of loan money to carry
2,000,000 inhabitants through the year, and
that the interest bill alone is expected to be
£7,100,000. That is to say, this bill is to
be £653,000 more than it was last year, and
three times as much as it was 19 years
ago. And it is expected now to grow faster'
than ever, for not only are new borrowings
prodigious, but the interest rate, both for
new loans and renewals, is unprecedented.
The cost of running the State is already
more than twice what it was only eight
years ago, and the biggest single item of
proposed new outlay hasn’t appeared yet—
the pension to every third and subsequent
child or second and subsequent child. Yet
this monetary splurge is not in any sense
caused by war expenditure, as in the case
of the swollen budgets of France and Britain.
It is a peaceful Local Government statement
of finance—the statement of an over-inflated
province aping an empire. There were
other Federations in the Great War —Canada,
South Africa, the United States and Brazil.
Among their component parts are 28 States
with more (sometimes four times more)
population than N. S. Wales. But only in
this bedevilled land of Australia was the idea
devised that the fact of the central authority
being at waf was an excuse for State, shire,
city, ■ town or village administrations 'to
go each on its separate jag, and race the
burdened and harassed National Government
for tirst turn at the loan market. The per-
spective which, in Australia, alone among
surviving Federations, makes the big State
bigger than the Commonwealth, is altogether
disastrous. The present N. S. Wales Cabinet,
which has been in office only seven months,
is already putting its fourth loan on the
market—£2,ooo,ooo. £21500,000, £3,000,000
and £4,000,000, making £11,500,000 in all.
That is at the rate of about £1,043,000 per
month, or nearly £20,000,000 a year. It has
two loans offering at once—£3,ooo,ooo at 5*
per cent., which is an effort to borrow paper
of purely local value here, and £4,000.000 at
64 per cent., which is a struggle to find some-
thing more substantial than paper in London.
Unless a wholly different crowd comes in with
a wholly different policy, repudiation is as
certain as the sunrise. It is merely a ques-
tion whether it will be the active and trucu-
lent sort which declares that the State is in-
solvent because it meant to be a thief and a
scoundrel, or the passive sort which says
it is broke because it discovers that it has
been a fool. The position is exactly that of
the very frequent person—he probably forms
95 per cent, of the community—who refuses
to think of death and plays at being immortal,
yet knows in his heart that he must die.
With all this outpouring of money the unem-
ployed trouble is alleged by Laborites, who
are really the people who talk most about it,
to be very severe. And if it isn’t it soon
will be. Increased loans lead, as usual, to in-
creased imports of white and colored goods,
union and non-union goods, short-hour and
sweated goods. In three months N. S. Wales
imported ten million pounds' worth more than
in the corresponding quarter last year, and
that made so much less demand for local
goods and less work to do. Moreover, the
Cabinet of Thirteen, with its short-hour and
no-Saturday-work and day-labor and high-
wage and go-slow policies, is definitely against
local production, and its Anti-Profiteering
Bill should further restrict output. Some-
thing might be done if Nationalists and
others would unite as an absolutely Anti-
Borrowing party, repent of their past sins,
and declare openly that repudiation is
threatening. That would at least bring the
situation to a very interesting issue.
More of McTiernan’s Bill.
It is difficult to get much explanation from
Attorney-General McTiernan, of Sydney, for
his simple attitude, if an absurdity or worse
is pointed out, is that the other person is
a monopolist and a grinder of the beaming
countenance of the poor. It is a pity, for
instance, that he doesn’t explain why, in
his Anti-Profiteering Bill, he drops like a
landslide on the sale of goods in transit, as
if motion was a sin. Next to his hatred of
co-operative or joint-stock enterprise, as dis-
tinguished from the enterprise of individual
rich men like Ml na it an, the legal gentleman
seems to see a crime in the disposal of goods
until they have stopped, and not only that
but have stopped at the originally-intended
destination. Cattle, which are sometimes a
year on the way from North Australia to a
southern city, may never get near their
original destination, because market fluctua-
tions cause their .sale for some other placet
en route. Also, they are sometimes sold on
the road because the owner dies, goes broke
or wants to get away on some new “lay.”
Y\ 001, wheat, ores, even ships, are now and
then sold in motion because they are on a
long journey and the owner has to realise in
a hurry. On the other hand, one of the
most remarkable cases of profiteering lies in
the fact that the unimproved value of Syd-
ney and suburbs lately went up, or was
boomed up, over £5,000,00 in a single year,
and they weren’t in motion. Also, the most
heartless wild-cat mines are quite stationary.
But the McTiebnan Bill is full of quaint
things. For instance, it says:—
Any person who dissuades or attempts to dissuade
any person from bringing or sending any specified
necessary commodity to any market or place for the
purpose of sale or distribution therein shall be
guilty of an offence against this Act.
It is fairly comprehensive. Brown may incite
Smith, who is a stranger or is a shingle
short, to do something equivalent to sending
his coals to Newcastle, where they are not
wanted, and may do this to divert them
from (say) Wagga, where they are wanted,
but where he desires the market to him-
self. Or he may do it so that he can buy
them in a bad market for a song. If he does
his trick that way he will be within the
law. But if he tells Smith not to send
coals to Newcastle, but gives him a list of
100 other likely places, he will fall in badly.
And if Robinson tells Smith that Brown
is putting up a cruel and ruinous joke on
him, Robinson will fall in. Sending a man
on a wild-goose errand is to be lawful, but
not saving him from one. This makes the
giving of kindly and disinterested advice
very dangerous, for the informer is going to
be numerous. But there are features in
this comprehensive measure which beat even
that. To be “privy” to a thing, is to be
admitted to, or attain to, a knowledge of it.
And it is that —
Any person who in N.S.W. aids, abets, counsels
procurers or connives at or by any act or omission
is in any way directly or indirectly concerned in
or privy t 0.... the doing of any act outside N.S.W.
which, if done in N.S.W., would be an offence under
this Act shall be deemed to have committed that
offence, and shall be punishable accordingly.
So, according to this young man’s ecstasy
of madness in the manufacture of crime:
If a N. S. Wales citizen does something or con-
nives at something being done in Westralia or Tim-
buctoo which is not only quite legal there but is
so much a matter of custom that it is impossible
to do business otherwise, he may be heavily fined
or imprisoned, provided the action is contrary to
the unfailing wisdom of McTiernan’s Bill.
And if he even knows of such a thing being done
in Westralia or Timbuctoo, though he can’t prevent
it and doesn’t profit by it (nothing is said about
him profiting by it), he may similarly fall in if
any meddler, busybody, crank or scalawag informs
against him. . ,
In short, the idea is that N. S. Wales citi-
zens shall either do no business outside their
own State or do it strictly under McTier-
nan’s law, even though it doesn’t apply
outside, and outside authorities may flatly
refuse to allow McTiebnan to legislate for
them, and even say he is an officious little
party.
♦
Justice Higgins, a kind-hearted man but
no political economist, in granting a 44-hour
week in the timber industry, quoted the
United States, among other places, as an.
example. Nobody should quote examples of
that sort in Australia, this place being in a
category by itself. Taking N. S. Wales as
a specimen, the local interest bill this year
is over £7,000,000—£3 10s. per inhabitant,
or £l7 10s. per year (nearly 7s. per week) for
a family of five; and if the old man earns
Is. 9d. per hour that represents his Saturday
morning’s work. Adding the State’s share
of the Federal interest bill the charge is
nearly equal to a day of the old man’s work.
Most of this money goes out of the country.
In the U.S., which has lent money to all the
solvent parts of the globe and has interest
pouring in in place of pouring out, it is
rather a case of the family receiving 12s. a
week than of paying it. It is nonsense? then,
for anybody, on the Bench or off it, to talk
as if the two cases are parallel.
«
“Rio”: A lot was said some time ago about
“dud” permanent officers being allowed to
retain their commissions, and the agitation
only subsided when a score or so of middle-
aged men with families (mostly faithful ser-
vants and good peace administrators) were
turned out into a cold world almost destitute
and too old to start afresh. Their incapacity
was in many cases due to the meagre facilities
for advancement provided by Australia in
the past. Yet never a word is heard about
the host of citizen “duds” and “has beens”
still on the officers list and commanding units
of the citizen forces. There are in every
State brigadiers and commanding officers who
saw no service outside Australia except a
trip on a troopship and others who were
returned as “duds” after a few months’ ser-
vice. Yet these men are still the leaders of
our fighting forces, though their retirement
would not affect their livelihood in any way.


The Only
Oil
WILLIAMS’
5 gallons dirty oil restored
to lubrication efficiency
in 20 minutes.
Easily cleared.
Entirely automatic.
=5)
Rapid
Filter.
PATENT.
Save 50 to 70 per cent,
of your oil bill by install-
ing the Rapid.
Reference to very many
satisfied users.
Billetts’
Hot Blast
Patent
Tuyere
Uses No Water.
Clinker discharged
Never Bums Out.
without disturbing fire.
Saves 25 percent, on Coal Bill
Saves 30 per cent, in Time
Thousands in Use. 30/- to 45/-
GUTHRIDGE
-
MAY BE BOUGHT THROUGH YOUR SUPPLY HOUSE.
Sole Manufafturers:
LTD., 10-12 George Street, Camper d own (City),
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“If there is a racehorse missing I insist
on being searched,” said the half-caste hero
in a recent book —“Mr. Podd of Borneo.”
The present N. S. Wales Government is like
that—always wanting to be searched. It
persuaded Justice Edmunds with great diffi-
culty to undress and search it to see if it
was insufficiently nourished in the way of
salary, and then it pretended to be coy about
taking off its clothes and had to be sub-
poenaed with its own consent by its own
appointed agent, and threatened with the
law of contempt. Now it demands that
some other Judge, probably Pring, shall
search it to see if there is about it any of
the money that Talbot is said to have given
to Johnson. It is always defending its
honor like the pore girl in fiction, or dying
in the last ditch, or repudiating the vile
insinuation, or moved to lofty self-sacrifice,
or vowing that it will never desert Mr.
Micawber. In fact, it is very tinselly and
theatrical.
The N. S. Wales State lottery game, if
the Government doesn’t again change what
it supposes to be its mind, has lost its one
good feature. It is to be a horse gamble
like Tatt.’s, though why any needless, useless,
perspiring brute should be mixed up with a
simple gamble only the high gods know. So
the brute’s blackmailing owner will be round
again demanding his “cut,” and perhaps it
is because he prefers his cut in cash that the
plan of paying prizes in bonds is eliminated.
Something blew up last week, and the
echoes of the report are still rumbling
throughout Australia. The thing that ex-
ploded was the correlated policy of (1)
multiplying the functions of Government
until every fifth or sixth man is a State
employee, and (2) appointing Royal Com-
missions to conciliate dissatisfied citizens,
chiefly public servants, and save craven or
dishonest Governments from a course of
action that would involve the loss of votes.
One of the multitudinous Commissions has
just recommended that the basic wage in
Australia should be raised 33 per cent, and
more —to £5 6s. 2d. a week in Queensland,
£5 13s. lid. in Westralia, £5 16s. Id. in S.
Aus., £5 16s. 6d. in Vic., £5 16s. lid. in Tas.,
and £5 17s. in N. S. Wales. And the
moan of Prime Minister Hughes that the
increase will cost the Commonwealth
£70,000,000 a year has been lost in the
deafening roar that announces the destruc-
tion of the whole darned fabric of folly.
A POSER.
MEMBER OF WOMEN'S LEAGUE (to political
economist doing a little "missionary
work”): “Ai would like-to know, does
the speakah considah the high cost of
living the cause of high prices, or is it
vice-ay-versay ?”
It has leaked out that 440,000 copies of
his Excellency Bill Lennon’s pre-election
boost for the party that gave him his job
were turned out by the Government Printer
and charged up to Development of Horti-
culture, or something. < The huge hunk of
Labor campaign literature cost Queensland
£2214 12s. 9^d. —£2126 for printing and £BB
12s. 91d. for postage. But a State that has
stood Ryan and Theodore for six years
doesn’t worry about a trifle like that.
One thing Mahon can look forward to,
anyway. The vote on Hughes’s motion hav-
ing been cast strictly on party lines and
the Labor party having unanimously opposed
his expulsion, presumably one of Labor’s
early acts when the pendulum swings its way
again will be the erasure of the resolution
from the records of the House. There will be
precedent. Ezekiel Alexander Baker, the
only member of the N.S.W. Assembly who
was ever expelled, had to wait but 18
months to see the resolution rescinded. That,
by the way, was just on 40 years ago.
The situation about members’ salaries in
N. S. Wales is really this. The baser kind
of politician has become something between
an errand boy and a swaggie, always wan-
dering expensively and to no purpose over
the haggard countenance of his constituency,
so that, even though he has half the week to
himself and often takes the other half, he
can’t do anything to help out his income.
Then his constituents blackmail him out of
his salary, and if it was £l6OO a year in-
stead of £6OO they would do it harder and he
would be no better off. Wherefore (1)
every member who gives or whose wife or
son or daughter gives away a cent in his
constituency should lose his seat; (2) every
constituent who asks for or accepts a cent
should be liable to a minimum of £5 or a
month; (3) no member should be allowed
to go near his constituency at all except for
a week or so at election time. This paper
can think of a lot of members who would
have been better men if they had never been
near their constituents —or anybody else’s.
By the completion of the Tolondo-Caven-
dish section Portland (Vic..) has at last been
linked up by rail with the Wimmera. Wheat
and wool can now be forwarded direct from
Horsham and Hopetoun to the long-neglected
western port. But whether it will pay to
take them there is another matter. The Gov-
ernment may feel a bit lukewarm now that
Glenelg has tipped out one of its Ministers.
There is always some excuse for being luke-
warm on such matters.
From a man who knows the country:—
All this balderdash about “the change in the
character of the Kalgoorlie electorate” and Bill
Hedges or some other well-fed Tory being “requested
to nominate” and a Cocky candidate coming for-
ward “to capture the farming vote” is a weariness
of the flesh. There are not a hundred farmers in
the Kalgoorlie electorate. I doubt if there are 50.
If the Country Party dug up a standard-bearer, in
the asylum or elsewhere, it would be a million to one
on his losing his deposit. Bill Hedges or some
other st.ake-in-the-country candidate might save his
£25, but he would have a struggle to do it. There
has been no change in the character of the elec-
torate. It is still dominated by mine-toilers belong-
ing to one or other of the Labor factions. No can-
didate unrepresentative of one of those two factions
would have a hope. Heitmann (National Labor)
bqat Mahon (A.L.P.) in 1917 because Mahon had
taken the (in Westralia) unpopular side of the
Conscription controversy; Mahon won the seat back
in 1919 because he produced his two soldier..sons as
evidence of loyalty. Before 1916 Kalgoorlie was
about the safest Labor seat in the Commonwealth,
but Conscription sundered it violently, and the
breach has endured.
A weak point of the demand for £6 a
week and found for harvest labor is that if the
worst comes to the
worst the wheat-
farmers will do what
the fruit-growers and
the market-gardeners
have been doing for a
good while —produce
as much as they can
handle themselves
no more. That is the
chief reason why, in
spite of good individual
crops, fruit is inordi-
nately dear, and why
vegetables have been
luxuries for the last
year or more. If the
same methods are
forced upon the wheat-
farmer, then we have
simply got to look forward to scarce and
dear bread, too.
Considine, M.11.R. for the Barrier
(N.S.W.), has expelled himself from the
Australian Labor party. For some time
trouble has been brewing between Considine
and the Sydney end of the A.L.P., and the
alleged refusal of the latter to supply infor-
mation which Michael demanded decided that
young man to start a career as an inde-
pendent party, in which capacity he reckons
he can do more for “internationalism.” In
other words, while professing to cultivate
the vines, he hopes to be able to do some-
thing also for the phylloxera.
Vic. is finding that it can’t wholly escape
the consequences of the long loan debauch in
N. S. Wales —a debauch which, of course,
has given things an artificial value and
pushed up wages along with the cost of
living. Thus the remodelling of the Lawson
team had hardly been completed when, wear-
ing his largest boots and fiercest look, Bad-
deley came over from Sydney and told the
Cabinet that if it kept on flouting the Hibble
award so far as it affected brown-coal miners
working in the open cut at Morwell the
miners would be called out in Vic. and no
coal would be sent from the Ma State. At
first Lawson told Baddeley to go to the
Devil; but he soon found a softer word, and
offered to summon the local Wages Board or
to accept a new tribunal to be created by
Hughes. It is not so much the 3s. 6d. a
day extra for 300 brown-coal miners that
Lawson dreads, but the £2,000,000 a year
additional outlay that will be required if
other State employees are encouraged to
ask for a guinea a week each. Last year,
without the extra pay, there was a net loss
of £4840 on the working of the Morwell
mine.
Lazzarini, M.H.R., was to the fore when
the Banking Bill was before the House of
Reps, with his familiar dirge about “the
immediate introduction of a bill to provide
for the nationalisation of banking, to relievm
the taxpayer from the burden of interest on
future loans, to provide credits for under-
THE PREVALENT INQUIRY.
THE POLITICIAN : “As soon as I found there
was a possibility of underhand profit
being made in the position, I got out
of it.”
THE REPORTER : “Yes, go on and finish the
sentence.”
THE POLITICIAN : “I have. I say I got out
of it.”
THE REPORTER : “Yes, yes; but my business
is to find WHAT you got out of it.”
takings and rural industries, to consolidate
the national debt and to provide for re-
turned soldiers.” It wouldn’t be so bad if
the chronic and uninteresting nuisance would
furnish details of his wonderful plan. But
not all the wild asses in Persia could drag
a vestige of plain information from Lazzarini.
He is the kind of man who, when asked for
a balance-sheet, is liable to reply that he
scorns the tyrant and the oppressor whose
subterranean dungeon will yet fall on his
own head, and that when the worm turns
dressed in shining armor the monstrous edi-
fice of superstition will vanish like the base-
less fabric of a scream.
When Mullan or Hunter or some other
lowly tribune of the people stalks abroad in
Queensland on business of State you may al-
most hear the popping of the corks. Hunter
had a little jaunt to Roma and Corungra be-
fore he left for London, and the bill for re-
freshments came to £l5 65.. The State paid
that, and it also paid £l2l 15s. for a ban-
quet, £146 10s. for a reception, £153 7s. 3d. for
bags and insurance, £22s. 6s. lOd. for a special
train and £912 7s. 6d. for steamer fares —-
all to show what a gorgeous and beneficent
Government Queensland has got and what
a priceless acquisition to London Hunter is.
It is the same State whose Premier confessed
the other day that it was “without the
means of carrying on a reasonable policy
of development.” But development is of
trifling importance compared with Hunter.
The job or scheme for finding a big salary,
motor-car, sword and cocked hat for an
Australian “ambassador” at Washington
isn’t dead. In fact, it is very much alive.
It has been hanging fire because the British
Government is reluctant to let the appointee
be a real ambassador, with power to muddle
us into treaties and complications and obliga-
tions, and possibly declare war, instead of a
mere commercial agent, but it is hoped that
the difficulty may be overcome. Then some
little man will put the big cocked extinguisher
on his head and trot away to be our Talley-
rand or Cavour. Canada has a sort of am-
bassador in the U.S.', but there are reasons.
Canada, the biggest single property in the
empire, has the United States on three sides
of it —south, west, and north-west. The U.S.
is the only neighbor it has, and Canada is the
only part of the empire that abuts on the
U.S. ; and along thousands of miles of border-
line questions are always arising. A diplo-
matic agent at Washington (which is only a
few hours away) saves the British Govern-
ment (which is some days away) the won>
of settling these. The Indian Government
keeps its own ambassador at Cabul tor the
same reason. But Australia doesn t abut
on either the United States or Afghanistan.
It isn’t within thousands of miles of either.
It never had a question to settle with either.
That is the diplomatic side of the case. Com-
mercially the United States is our worst
customer and there is no sign that it will be
anything different this century at least.
Washington would doubtless be a better
place than Cabul for some unproductive
political derelict to loaf in with £3OOO a year
and spending money; but Australia is sup-
porting far too many gilded paupers already.
It is wonderful how all hands and the
cook volunteer to save the jeweller's stock-
in-trade even if the fire is a small one ant
half a street away. It is also wonderful
how many people want to save Australia, to
do which they would, of course,
have to be entrusted with the
necessary saving power, a la
Cromwell or Lenin. And it is
especially surprising that _so
many of these people are im-
ported or of alien descent, so
that it is a strange country they
are rescuing. Paul Freeman,
the German with a bogus name
and nationality, who called his
copper claim the Four Slaves,
was saving North Queensland
from chains and oppression, and
had to be dragged off the job by
the hair amid much sympathy
from maudlin doctors, politicians
and philanthropists. Tom Walsh,
from England or Ireland, and
his wife, a scion of the Pank-
hurst family of London, were
in the same line, and the former
threatened to let loose the
criminal classes of Melbourne
and make the city unsafe after
dark for any decent girl or
woman or any peaceful man. And then
there is Garden, who is understood to be a
saviour from Scotland. The only satisfaction
the real Australian can get out of it all is
that a dog-poor country would be left to
wallow in misery till the feathered dog is
invented or the four-footed hen barks.
John Storey’s aspect is that of a blushing
mid-Victorian maiden who is always liable
to be betrayed. In a recent effort he
explained the considerable collapse of the
Arabian Nights Entertainment of promises
with which he bought his way to office by
the fact that he inherited a deficit at the
end of the financial year, though the 2 -h
months of the year in which he ran the
show had jy lot to do with it. “In the
innocence of my heart” was the way this
battered veteran of 20 years’ political cam-
paigning put it—this war-worn legionary
who had sat under nine deficits, helped the
coming and going of six Ministries, and
assisted at the birth of £50,000,000 of new
public debt and the Norton Griffith job and
other things. In the innocence of his heart
he relied on Holman leaving the accounts
quite square, though the published monthly
returns showed everybody how the accounts
stood, and when he found they weren’t quite
square one could have knocked him down
with a cannon-ball. Bless his innocent
little heart, also his white frock and his
sash!
The Bolshevist armies keep marching on
(with occasional interruptions) like the vil-
lainous John Brown, and the little races
which thought they had got more or less
free Governments of their own are crumpling
up as the ancient State of Bokhara did.
Wrangel’s collapse seems to mean that
another Ireland is extinguished in blood.
A terror like Bolshevism generally dies
from within —not by pressure from with-
out. All Western Europe couldn’t down
Robespierre, Couthon and St. Just. But
the Convention which they owned body
and soul turned on them one evening,
arrested them like three drunks, and beheaded
them next day. They even went on ruling
for a while after they were dead, for there
being no telegraphs then it was a while
before the armies knew they were dead. In
like manner Solomon is said to have reigned
after decomposition had set in.
Mourning over a dead child at St. Peters,
Sydney, the coroner said that “a tremendous
and serious burden rested on those who
drove motor-cars in suburbs where there were
no playgrounds for children” so that they had
to lead their outdoor lives in the streets.
But a responsibility heavier than the Blue
Mountains rests on those who make it com-
pulsory that there shall be suburbs without
playgrounds by crowding 800,000 people into
one city when there is room for a dozen
cities. Every One, Big Cityite in Parliament
—and that means nearly every member-
should have a dead child left on his doorstep
regularly.


TOO MANY SPRUI KERS SCARE THE BIRD.
A Melbourne paper complains of the enormous amount of talk over immigration, without any apparent result.


The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
PRODUCERS of
LEAD —Soft Pig, Refined Assay (Bar and Granulated), Super-refined, Corroding,
Chemical and Antimonial.
SILVER —Refined (Bar and Granulated).
SPELTER —(Sold through Zinc Producers’ Association Pty. Ltd.).
ZINC DUST—(SoId through Zinc Producers’ Association Pty. Ltd.).
Also of LITHARGE—(Assay and Industrial). . BEARING METALS,
TYPE METALS, ZINC OXIDE and LEADED ZINC OXIDE.
BUYERS on Specially Favorable Tariffs of
SILVER-BEAD ORES, BEAD DROSSES and ZINC DROSSES.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
H. L SHACKELL, Manager.
T. H. SEARS. Secretary.
Smelting Works and Refineries: Port Pirie, South Australia.
Coke Works: Bellambi. New South Wales.
BRANCH OFFICES:
SYDNEY:
25 O’CONNELL STREET.
R. N. KIRK, Agent.
LONDON:
8 & 9 AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2.
A. J. SMITH,
London Manager and Secretary.
ADELAIDE:
62 BROOKMAN BUILDINGS.
C. S. STOKES. Agent.
KOBE, JAPAN:
ORIENTAL HOTEL,
H. B. HARKER,
Representative.
REGISTERED BRANDS:
“AUSTRAL”
:bhas
“B.H.P. AUSTRALIA.”
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuee
Detonators
Cartridges
HIGH-GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification,
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon, Chrome Vanadium, Acid-
resisting or other Alloy Steels of every description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd
(Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London),
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, N. S.W.
Branch Works in course of erection at West Guildford, Perth, W.A.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
(Sydney):—
Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1910. . £23,212 10 p.c. = £7,500 £15,712 £108,718
< 33,959 10 „ „ 7,500 26,459 135,177
1911.. | Transferred to capital, £25,000 . . 110,177
Reserve for unearned premiums
disclosed .. • . • • £40,000 160,177
lnlt) < 56,827 10 p.c. = 10,000 46,827 197,004
1912.. j Transferred to capital, £25,000 . . 172,004
inl „ < 47,455 10 p.c. = 12,500 34,955 206,959
1913. . j Transferred to capital, £25,000 . . 181,959
1914.. 40,520 12$p.c.= 18,750 21,770 203,729
IQI , < 56,928 12$ „„ 18,760 38,178 -241,907
1916.. | Transferred to capital, £100,000.. 141,907
1916.. 61,323 12$p.c.= 31,250 30,073 171,980
j 76,328 12$ „ „ 31,250 45,078 217,058
191/.. i Transferred to capital, £100,000.. 117,058
1918.. 122,390 12$ p.c. = 43,750 78,640 195,698
1919.. 127,596 12$ „ „ 43,750 83,846 279,544
Transferred to capital, £150,000. . 129,544
1920.. 131,621 12$p.c.= 62,500 69,121 198,665
Since the 1919 balance there has been an-
other capitalisation of reserves —the largest
so far effected —and this £150,000 issue of
bonus shares has taken capital to half a mil-
lion, the full amount authorised. Only 10
years ago paid capital was a mere £75,000,
and at the 1910 balance the div. rate on
that lot was elevated from 8 to 10 p.c. Now
12% p.c. is being paid on a register 6§ times
that size, the whole of the enlargement
representing bonus additions. Old hands
have thus had a gorgeous banquet: the pre-
sent 12i p.c. is equal to a return of 83$
p.c. p.a. on the money actually put into
the co. by shareholders. Even those who
got in a dozen years ago, when the £1 shares
paid to 10s. were fetching about 18s., have
done remarkably well, their investment now*
yielding 46 p.c. p.a.
How these very handsome returns to
shareholders have been possible is explained
by the underwriting record :
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1896. . £40,681 £28,703 £13,058 70.7 p.c. 32.1 p.c.
1900. . 75,310 44,053 20,529 58.5 „ 27.2 „
1905.. 74,118 43,129 26,020 58.2 „ 35.1 „
1910.. 124,213 60,286 47,911 48.5 „ 38.5 „
1914.. 225,051 116,765 79,400 51.9 „ 35.3 „
1915.. 240,849 118,126 81,098 49.0 „ 33.6 „
1916.. 262,675 121,746 93,320 46.3 „ 35.5 „
1917.. 271,416 113,472 103,184 41.8 „ 38.0 „
1918.. 308,148 109,105 101,533 35.4 „ 32.9 „
1919.. 373,146 142,249 135,609 38.1 „ 36.3 „
1920.. 440,021 169,775 180,277 38.6 „ 40.9 „
No other Australian co. has expanded so
rapidly: during the past six years alone
premium income has nearly doubled. It is
now 35 years since James Burns established
the co. in Townsville (N.Q.) as a sort of
adjunct to his young shipping enterprise.
But like the Burns-Philp steamships, the
Queensland Insurance Co.’s policies have
gradually found a wider field, until nowa-
days this co.’s business abroad is probably
not far short of its insurances at home.
During recent years, of course, the high
value of all insurables has also helped to
build up the figures. One way and another,
in six years the co. has practically doubled
the business which it had acquired as the
result of almost 30 years’ operations pre-
viously.
The past year’s loss rate was again very
favorable, but expenses have moved ahead
several points. Nevertheless, after meeting
all outgoings on account of claims, manage-
ment and business-getting, the past , year
gave a surplus equal to 20.5 p.c. of net
premiums compared with 12.8 p.c. for 1914.
Thus last year 7.7 p.c. more of the premium
income fell into the co.’s coffers, and on a
£440,000 income that represents a saving
of £34,000. The latest underwriting sur-
plus was almost £llO,OOO, but the whole
of that may not prove to be actual profit,
for many policies which had contributed to
income had not run the full period for which
risks were covered. As a set-off against
these uncompleted contracts £25,000 of the
past year’s premiums has been regarded as-
unearned and has been tacked to a reserve
for unexpired risks, which now amounts to
£150,000, or over 34 p.c. of the latest pre-
mium income. Interest and rents last year
brought in £41,652, which alone covered two-
thirds of the handsome dividend the direc-
tors decided to distribute. After providing
for the distribution to shareholders there
remained nearly £200,000 in visible reserves,
making with the half-million of capital over
£700,000 of funds. Actually, reserves may
be larger than shown in the first table, for
with the sundry creditors items there is. a
provision for contingencies which may in-
clude something in the nature of genuine
reserves. Twelve months ago the Queens-
land had £1(56 of funds for every £lOO of
premiums collected; after the latest distri-
butions to shareholders there was still £l5 )
of funds for every £lOO of last year’s greatly
enlarged premium income. That is stronger
protection than most of its big overseas com-
petitors can offer. Put another way: the
Queensland Insurance is in the position of
being able to meet claims about £50,000 in
excess of the total losses experienced during
the past five years.
At Sept. 30 the tally of assets had for the
first time exceeded a million, but apart from,
the staff provident fund the management
showed liabilities (including the reserve for
contingencies) totalling nearly £239,000.
Big changes have taken place in the disposi-
tion of funds since 1914: —
, 1914 s , 1920
p.c. P-c.
Government securities £64,498 14.8 £431,118 42.7
Municipal securities.. 43,815 10.1 45,565 4.0
Deposits, cash and ~ „
sundry debtors .. 214,708 49.4 422,476 41.8
Premises .. .. 110,830 25.7 110,918 11.0
Those investments are a very satisfactory
lot. Apart from any branch balances and
book debts which it may have been possible
to collect readily, at Sept. 30 three-quarters
of all assets were gilt-edged securities and
cash. # #
The People’s Prudential Assurance
Co. (Sydney) . . .
Expenses Total Assur-
and Divi- Out- ance
Aug., Income. Claims, dends. goings. Fund.
1907. . £15,919 £6291 £7,401 £13,692 £11,230
1908.. 17,796 7,041 8,094 15,135 13,891
1909.. 18,644 7,418 8,375 15,793 16,742
1910.. 19,586 8,291 8,443 16,734 19,594
1911.. 21,165 8,737 8,997 17,734 23,025
1912.. 22,389 8,144 9,633 17,777 27,637
1913. . 24,070 8,996 10,202 19,198 32,509
1914.. 25,252 9,049 11,544 20,593 37,168
1915.. 25,577 9,178 9,690 18,868 43,877
1916.. 27,236 8,840 10,825 19,665 51,448
1917.. 29,290 9,785 12,859 22,644 58,094
1918.. 31,135 8,642 12,162 20,804 68,425
1919.. 34,480 12.266 12,907 25,173 77,73-
1920.. 39,432 12,519 16,045 28,564 88,600
The investing public is not much inter-
ested in the quarter-century-old Peoples
Prudential Assurance: it is mostly Ur. Utto
Bohrsmann’s Prudential, for the ex-foot-
baller-medico dominates the little £lO,OOO
share-register. Still the co.’s accounts are
of interest in demonstrating how profitable
life assurance may prove for proprietaries.
For nine years divs. have averaged practi-
cally 10 p.c.: during each term 61 p.c. in-
terest is paid to holders, but a bonus is regu-
larly declared after the triennial valuations
of policies which adds an average 3 $ p.c.
p.a. After considering the results of the
actuary’s recent investigations, the directors
now “feel confident that a dividend at the
rate of 10 p.c. for the year may safely be
declared.” This is evidently in addition
to the bonus, and by crediting each of the
past three years with its proportion of the
bonus, shareholders are now receiving 134
p.c. p.a. ....
The Prudential has got somewhat off the
track it had originally planned. At the
beginning it called itself a benefit society,
and set out, in particular, to enrol people
who for one reason or another could not,
or did not wish to, avail themselves of the
benefits attaching to membership of friendly
societies. But that was a business of small
premiums which involved a lot of trouble
and expense in handling, and was difficult
also because of the attitude of the doctors’
unions. Nowadays the Prudential is pro-
bably doing little straight-out medical-
benefit business, most of its doctor-chemist
services no doubt being hitched to policies
carrying other assurances. That the co. is
doing considerably less of this business than
formerly is made evident by the fact that
though premiums from all sources have
expanded from £18,651 to £35,107 during the
past 10 years, the entry “Payments to medi-
cal profession and chemists” has contracted
from £4332 to £3023, and those figures
seem to include the medical examination
charges in connection with all policies, and
may also include expenses incurred in the
settlement of medical claims. The latest
figures compiled by the N.S.W. State Statis-
tician (for 1918) throw further light on the
class of business nowadays handled by the
Prudential: —
Annual Premiums payable.
r A x
Endowment
Assurance. Assurance. Endowment.
Ordinary . . £3899 £16,170
Industrial . . 5815 129 £3476
The Statistician remarks that medical busi-
ness has been omitted from those figures.
The six entries tot up £29.489; total pre-
mium income for 1919 was only £30,659.
During the past year premium income in-
creased £4448 —only a mild expansion, never-
theless a record for the Prudential. As the
directors put it, the management has never
“forced development.” That, they say, would
have entailed “a very high expense rate,
inconsistent with the periodical bonus dis-
tributions to policy-holders,” not to mention
the immediate effect it might have on the
flow of shareholders’ divs. The co. has pro-
ceeded very quietly and restricts its interests
to Sydney’s close-in suburbs ; probably most
of its policy-holders are within half-a-dozen
miles of its one and only office. But, not-
withstanding its narrow field, the co.’s busi-
ness is not of a class which can be cheaply
handled. This comparison shows that Bs. in
the £ of the past year’s total income was
swallowed by expenses and by shareholders’
dividends:—
1910.. £43 2 2 p.c.
1912.. 43 0 6 „
1913.. 42 7 8 „
1914*. 45 14 4 „
1915.. 37 17 9 „
1916. . £39 14 11 p.c.
1917*. 43 18 0 „
1918.. 39 1 3 „
1919.. 37 8 8 „
1920*. 40 13 9 „
include £lOOO bonus paid to sharenoiders.
Disregarding the distributions to share-
holders the latest expense rate was 35.61
p.c. of total income, which in view of the
larger volume of new business compares very
favorably with previous performances: 1919,
35.54 p.c.; 1910, 41.88 p.c.
In the report the directors issued a
couple of weeks after the accounts were made
up—the Prudential is one of tire most prompt
of life offices in launching its accounts: the
latest shareholders’ meeting was held within
four weeks of the close of the financial year
—'total funds were said to have exceeded
£lOO,OOO for the first time. But at the
balance, after allowing for shareholders’ cut,
the assurance funds amounted to £88,600 and
were supported by the £lO,OOO of proprietors’
capital. Actuary E. ,M. Moors estimated
that there was £0505 more in the assurance
fund than his valuation of policies required,
4 p.c. apparently being the interest rate
which it was assumed Ordinary funds would
earn in future and p.c. being allowed for
Industrial funds for the purposes of his cal-
culations. Of that surplus £4200 has been
allocated as bonuses on policies, and, as
mentioned above, £lOOO has gone into share-
holders’ pockets. Actual interest earned dur-
ing the past year on the average of total
funds was over 4$ p.c.
At the balance assets totted up £100,528,
and total liabilities, including claims in pro-
cess of settlement, amounted to only £1578.
The Prudential’s long suit is mortgages, no
less than £58,745 being invested that way.
But, as might be expected of a small pro-
prietary, considerable caution is evidently
exercised to making those advances: year
after year the directors report that “no in-
terest whatever was overdue.” Other assets
include £22,002 of public securities. £14,970
of cash on hand and on deposit, £3232 loaned
on policies, and the balance in odds and
ends.
* * * * *
Mosgiel Woollen Factory Go. (Dun-
edin, M.L.) : . m „ ■
Written To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
1909.. £7,230 54 p.c. = £4590 £2500 £l4O £17,506
1910.. 9,845 6* „ „ 5007 4500 338 17,844
1911.. 8,466 6 „ „ 5007 3000 459 18,303
1912.. 11,827 7 „ „ 5842 5500 485 18,788
1913!! 10,428 7 „ „ 5842 4500 86 18,874
1914.. 9,450 7 „ „ 5842 4000 18.452
1915 . 12,937 7 „ „ 5842 -5000 2095 20.5,/
1916. . kfio? 9 7511 75109586 so.ies
1917 10,012 9 „ „ 7511 6500 26,164
lOlsi/MMB 10 „ „ 8346 9719 4763 30,927
1919. . 22,959 10 „ „ 8346 8338 6275 37,20^
1920.. 22,631 11 „ „ 9180 6400 7051 44,253
This CO. Avas a pioneer in “colonial wool-
manufacturing, having got to work in the
early ’seventies. Forty years afterwards the
best it Could give shareholders was still only
7 p.c. p.a. The war, however, up-ended the
old idea that the Commonwealth and Maon-
land were dependent on overseas manufac-
turers, with the result that, after years of
patient waiting and doubts as to the future
of the industry, local mills are experiencing
an unexpected wave of prosperity. How the
Mosgiel’s figures have grown is shown in this
comparison:—
Working Exes. Charges,
Manufac- and Plant Salaries
turing Profits. Maintenance, and Taxes.
1910.. .. £21,212 £2090 £5,191
1914.. .. 21,723 2811 5.684
1915 .. 25,932 3162 5,482
isle.: :: 40:307 4133 5,91 s
1917.. .. 36,542 .4231 16,959
1918.. .. 56,185 7805 19,113
1919.. .. 52,480 5750 18,691
1920.. -. 58,012 8017 21,472
Last year’s turnover was the most profitable
on record; but net earnings fell off slightly,
due to higher costs and heaAuer taxation.
How very well the co. has done lately is
explained by the fact that during the past
six years £72,507 has been available for
shareholders after providing for deprecia-
tion and plant maintenance, and after meet-
ing war-profits and other taxation, compared
with £31,246 distributable between 1908-14.
Depreciation allowances are nowadays very
liberal, practically 11 p.c. of the written-
down value of old plant and cost of recent
additions having been wiped off with the
latest £5OOO appropriation.
A 10 years’ survey of the balance-sheet
figures discloses these interesting movements :
1910. 1919. 1920.
Liabilities .. ..£18,953 £25,069 £32,071
Plant and property .. . 71,639 46,447 47,091
Goods • • • • 44,809 50,660 69,150
Book debts . . • • 8,605 29,232 27,500
Cash, etc. .. .. 208 27,735 25,221
The striking feature of that table is
heavy reduction in the book value of fixed
assets. Plant in 1910 had a book value of
£C,I (J 44 and, notwithstanding that durm»
the’past 10 years £32,545 has been
on additions and replacements, so hard has
the writing-down been that the present bo
value is only £41.091. Meantime the sur
plus of more or less liquid assets over lia-
bilities has expanded from £34,ouJ t
£S9,SOO, and since cash and War Loan repre-
sent more than £24,000. of the present
liquid assets the position is very snug. N
new capital has been got in since 1910, the
register totting up £83,457. After thelates
distributions to shareholders, and after pro
viding for current taxation, the Mos ß iel had
over 19s. 3d. in the £ of its share capital
represented by surplus liquid assets.
* * * *
The Farmers’ Fertilizers Corporation
(Sydney), which started in May, 1911, with
a deficit of £7064, represented by goodwill
£5OOO and preliminary expenses £-ob4.
Bonus
to Cys-
May, Profit. tomers. Deficit.
1911.. —~r
Ane- Pref. Ord. ,
1912’.. £1375 6 p.c. 6 p.c. £726 £99 6514
invi I'iAO 6 .. 5 ~ 990 »JNU oaou
1914” 1173 6 5 „ 1064 Nil 5851
415 6 • Nil 229 Nil 5665
1916!! 983 6 „ 4 p.c. 988 Nil 5670
IQI7 1184 6 4 ~ 996 Nil 5482
1918 * 1403 6 5,, 1187 Nil 5266
mo” loo" 6:: 5;; nsB nu 4947
1920.. 2934 6,,10 ~ 2158 Nil 4171
Operations for the 12 months to August gave
a profit almost double that shown for any
previous year, though the turnover was con-
siderably less than in pre-war days :-
1913 .. £47,684
1914 . . 38,107
1915 . . 44,387
1916 . . 30,102
1917 .. £19,547
1918 .. 12,778
1919 . . 10,658
1920 . . 30,276
The shipping scarcity during recent troubled
years curtailed business; for instance, tor
1919 the total value of purchases was only
£8578, compared with £36,677 worth m 1916.
During the past 12 months, however, the
management was able to increase its pur-
chases to £21,190, and by closing the books
with practically £lOOO less stock on hand
than 12 months previously a gross trading
profit of £6370 resulted. After deducting
all distribution and administration charges
and allowing for depreciation of plant, the
directors had the £2934 shown in the table
available for distribution. This enabled the
ordinaries’ div. rate to be doubled. Evidently,
also, vendor Arthur 11. Ilasell for the first
time has a dividend on the 0000 fully-paids
which he got from the float: things had pre-
viously gone so poorly that he had voluntarily
foregone his rights on these shares. The co.
has been a disappointment, nothing like the
prospectus anticipations having been real-
ised. The vendor reckoned on finding em-
ployment for £50,000 of capital and on
winning a net return of 18 p.c. p.a. In-
stead, including the £5OOO vendor’s considera-
tion, the Co.’s paid capital is now only
£23,263, of which £4209 represents cheap
preference shares (6 p.c.), and over the nine
years the ordinaries have averaged under 5
p.c. p.a. But, for all that, the co. is in a
very comfortable position. During the past
year the £4500 mortgage on properties was
paid off. and at August 31 total debts
amounted to only £1875. On the other side
was stock with a book value of £2991 and
book debts for £2919, while £8451 of cash was
on hand. The Farmers’ Fertilizers Corp. is
thus in a good position to handle a larger
volume of business, and now that the drought
has passed and shipping troubles have eased
better opportunities should show up. The
management also expects to make a rise out
of improved property values. Some time
after the co. started it put about £l5OO into
a factory and demonstration site at Merry-
lands, but the directors are now considering
a subdivision of the area not required for the
co.’s business.
* * * *
Head offices of some big concerns are
likely to go from Sydney if Kid McTiernan’s
Anti-Profiteering Bill becomes law and looks
like staying. That is to say, the big men
and a lot of staff and books will shift to
Melbourne or Adelaide or elsewhere, and
orders will be issued from there to the
branches all over the world, and the Sydney
office wfill receive orders from there and be
itself a branch looking after local affairs
only. The reason is this clause: —
Every person who, in N. S. Wales, aids, abets,
counsels, procures or connives at, or by any act or
omission is in any way directly or indirectly con-
cerned in or privy t 0,.... the doing of any act
outside N. S. Wales which if done in N. S. Wales
would be an oifence under this Act shall be deemed
to have committed that offence and shall be punish-
able accordingly.
The offences are amazingly numerous, and,
especially in the case of a company, are
immensely expensive—heavy fine of the co.,
winding up of the co. and fine and imprison-
ment of the officers. There are gigantic and
elaborate and most expensive records of
cost at every stage, profit on cost, profit on
capital and so on to be kept, and proclama-
tions and legal decisions will multiply them.
For every failure or omission fine waits and
jug yawns and ruin lurks. If the head office
is in Sydney, then every branch —in Queens-


61 YEARS' REPUTATION.
PIONEER Leather Belting.
guaranteed by J. C. LUDOWICI ®. SON LTD.,
TANNERS t LEATHER BELT MAKERS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED IN 1858.
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
Your footwear is now much more expensive than ever before—
and prices are undoubtedly going still higher. It is therefore
more than ever desirable that you get the longest possible wear
out of your shoes. You can do this by using Bostock’s
Dressings, which PRESERVE leather, in addition to giving a
brilliant polish.
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
IN BOTTLES AND TUBES.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd.,
Sydney.
Engineers consider that one of most important
advantages of “Pioneer” Wood Pipe as a domestic
water conduit is that it neither rusts nor corrodes,
and that its absolutely smooth interior surface
affords no lodgment for sediment of any kind. The
joints of wood pipe are set wood to wood, making
the contamination of liquids passing through it
impossible.'— Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —H(ive you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 6035. And at Cliallis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
♦ * * #
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coli.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
ns for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Mix your concrete with Leplastrier’s Patent “Multi-
mix” Concrete Mixer. Sizes from 1 \ to 54 cubic
ft. per batch. Drain your roads with concrete pipes
made with “Leplastrier’s” “Quickset” Pipe Moulds.
All Australian-made by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.,
Head Office, Sydney.— Advt.
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Ur.iv.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. (London); Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work ; contractors advised ; railway work.
90 Queen-street, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”— Advt.
* • * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supnlies, Ainsworth’s k Oertling’s
Balances, AVeights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. IT. B. Selby k Co.,
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb. — Advt.
• AIHSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in
Australia.
Losses from Fire, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation, Motor
Car, Plate-Glass Breakage. Burglary, Guarantee, Five Stock, Crops,
Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY. J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
land, Victoria, S.A., Tas„ W.A., Maoriland.
feouth Africa, London—will have to be
worked according to the letter of McTier-
nans law, because everything done there
and even at the agencies in Calcutta and
Cairo, will be “aided, abetted, counselled,
procured, connived,” etc., by the manage-
ment in Sydney. So when Michael Feeney,
Boucicault s traditional informer, informs,
the fines and forfeitures will be levied in
Sydney on the profits from all parts of the
world, and the mere order of a bad-tempered
minion in Sydney may close it all up. On
the other hand, if the head office—the one
tnat abets, counsels, connives, etc. —is in
Melbourne, McTiernan’s informers can onlv
get at the books dealing with the little bit
TVr°& al J ms . mess ( ev en in the case of the
A.MI. Society it isn’t very much); the
winding up of the co. will be beyond McTier-
nan s power; the men who are responsible
for e\ erything will be beyond his jurisdic-
tion ; and the funds, barring a' little petty
cash, may be kept out of his reach also.
JM-en the Itiverma business and the New
ii.n£land business could be worked from just
across the border as the northern military
busmess is from Brisbane. The office of
w! i ll]l - ? r °P- w jth its mine in
estein J\ S. \V ales and its ironworks in
Lastern Is S. M ales, finds it can hang out
R VT e o comfortabfv in Melbourne, and the
lit t • ?n 1° the same - McTiernan.
like Louis XIV., has the makings of a good
persecutor. But he has less power than
Louis to make the persecuted stay and
listen to him. J
* * * *
Another new treatment process:
The Concentrating and Amalgamating Co., Ltd,,
in 150 shares of £lOO, was formed in Sydney
recently to operate the Argles concentrating and
amalgamating processes. These are the processes
which the Metal Recovery Co. acquired for Westralia
a couple of years ago, though apparently that con-
cern has so far not got to work. For about 12
months a N. S. Wales syndicate, headed by R. A.
Rolfe, formerly of the Vulcan (Q.) and Mt.
Hope (N.S.W.), has been testing and improving the
processes, and after spending about £l2OO on a
35-ton-per-day plant the syndicate has decided that
everything is now ready for the field; hence a
£lo,ooo eo., practically subscribed by the syndicate.
A start is to be made at Peak Hill.
The Argles recovery process is claimed to be
particularly adapted for treating low-grade ores, tail-
ings, slime and slag dumps. After being pulped the
material flows through a distributor and divider into
streaming boxes, which automatically effect the first
separation, the overflow of pulp containing mineral
passing through launders and being distributed on to
tables. The feature of the’new table is an endless
belt of canvas, into which the metal contents settle,
the canvas automatically moving on 4ft. at regular
intervals, water taking off the gangue, and the belt
thence moving on again until circular brushes be-
neath the tables capture the inetal. A recovery of
from 85 to 90 p.c. of the mineral is claimed, the
product being practically free from gangue. Costs are
estimated at 2s. 6d. per ton tailings, or, when re-
grinding is necessary, 4s. (id. per ton for a 100-
tons-per-day output. The Argles amalgamation
•solution is estimated to cost at the outside 3d. per
ton material treated. This solution is claimed to
neutralise any greasy- or refractory matter, and to
prevent flouring or sickening of the quicksilver. The
pulped sulphides, etc., are fed to a patent amalga-
mator, the gold being recovered in the form of amal-
gam, to be treated by usual smc-lting or retorting
methods.
With the 35-ton-per-day plant the syndicate has
achieved some remarkable results with Mt. Morgan
and other ores; managing-director Rolfe claims that
the concentrates obtained from Morgan residues
were equal to the concentrates produced by that co.
from its crude ore. Three Morgan products behaved
in this way :
Insoluble. Gold. Sulphur. Iron. per.
~ p.c. dwt. p.c. p.c. n.c-
Concentrates .. 53.4 (S 20 21 5 4
After treatment.. 36 7.12 29.3 31.3 4.9
Tailings 93 .8 3.5 2 9
After treatment. . 50 3.12 20.3 19.6
Slimes .. ..70 2 il 17 _
After treatment.. 58 5.16 20 21.2
Handling 2-1 tons tails the process thus effected a
Recovery of 84.3 p.c. of the gold besides considerably
increasing copper and sulphur values, the process-
tailings assaying only 3gr. gold, 2.4 p.c. sulphur and
2.1 p.c. iron. The enrichment of the con-
centrates is reckoned to be possible at a cost of only
3s. per ton. Rolfe declares that “extractions of gold
from the most complex sulphide ores have been
thoroughly demonstrated,” 96,8 p.c. recoveries having
been got from Mt. Morgan ground chlorination-
residue, 92.6 p.c. recovery from the Frenchman’s reef
(Vic.), and 94.2 p.c. from the Cassilis reef (Vic.).
* * * #
When, early in 1919, Mt. Hope. (N.S.W.)
got in £42,500 of new capital, making its
total register £70,000, it was thought that
sufiicient funds had been put up to instal gas
power, and thus defeat drought troubles,
instal a new concentrating mill and make
the show capable of handling 100 tons ore
per day. But owing to high costs and labor
troubles, the directors discovered early this
year that the £42,500 was far short of actual
requirements, and they personally guaranteed
a £20,000 overdraft to keep things on the
move. L. V. Waterhouse, who designed and
erected Lyell’s plant, is now g.-m., and he
declares that a further £25,000 will have to
be outlayed before 100-tons-per-day opera-
tions can commence. So the directors are
issuing £50,000 of £lOO 10 p.c. debentures
at £9O, repayable in 1927 and convertible
into 10 p.c. prefs. at par within five years.
The directors are showing their faith by
putting up £20,000. Waterhouse says he is
impressed with Mt. Hope possibilities,
development having proved an important
extension of the ore body between the 270
and 340 feet levels. He has determined
the ore body longitudinally for 300 ft., with
lode channels persisting at both ends, indi-
cating the probability of further bodies.
When the 100-tons-per-day stage is reached,
he anticipates a grade of slightly under
41 p.c. copper, unless selective mining is
undertaken. Waterhouse’s revision of costs,
including development, realisation and over-
head charges, puts the figure at 04s. Id. per
ton ore, giving a profit of 7s. lid. per ton
ore with electrolytic at £9O. increasing to
235. lid. with the market at £llO.
In November, 1917, Boulder Perseverance
appointed a liquidator because it was de-
clared that prospects were not good enough
for the co. to carry on. Since then tributors
have extracted and treated 70,000 tons of ore
for bullion worth, with premium, £406,000.
Out of this the co. has received £75,000 by
way of royalties and has paid divs. amount-
ing to about Is. per share. Over 60 parties
of tributors employing several hundred men
are at work, and the fact that there has
never been a dearth of gold returns seems to
indicate that there have been people on the
spot who knew more about the mine than
did the co.’s officials.
Widgiemooltha (W.A.) is becoming the
Mecca of disappointed Hampton Plains ven-
tures. Several have made a fresh start
there, and others, enticed by puffs, are follow-
ing. Some of those already on the spot pro-
fess to have good prospects, and one or two
declare that there is no necessity for further
delay in erecting treatment plants. But on
its past record the field is only one for small
parties.
Since the Collie (W.A.) coal seams were
first worked 20-odd years ago, the mines
there have had to sell their product at a
price which left little profit and nothing for
development on a big scale. The much-
increased prices of Newcastle coal and
heavier freights are now giving Collie its
opportunity. Before the war only one line
of steamers —and that German-owned—took
the whole of its Australian bunker-coal from
Collie. A number of shipping cos. are now
stated to be anxious to do business with
Collie, and Java and Malaya are also
reported to be certain customers.
• • • •
Associated (W.A.) made a profit of £9704
last year, or £8392 more than for the pre-
vious 12 months, notwithstanding that 17,000
fewer tons were treated. 54.484 tons having
been handled. Reserves of broken ore at
the end of August aggregated 96,136 tons,
pt which 60 p.c. was estimated to be worth
255. per ton with gold at standard value.
The co.’s Canadian interests are declared to
be improvjng. Oil the Keelev mine, which
is being handled by a separate co., reserves
m sight are estimated to contain 400,0000 z.
of silver and much cobalt.
* * * *
J. L. Strevens’s plea for Oil Acts:—
Mushroom syndicates, mostly with barely sufficient
capital to cover preliminary investigation work, are
bravely trying to prove State geologists wrong in
their views regarding the non-existence of petroleum
in Australia. There are, at present, no mining
Acts in any of the Stales sufficiently wide to encour-
age active prospecting by those thoroughly familiar
with oil-pioneering- requirements, and special legisla-
tion covering the entire domain of oil-finding should
be introduced to stimulate interested parties to sup-
port ventures of the right sort. Before the
£50,000 reward is earned Oil Acts.giving bona fide
investigators oil rights over large prospecting areas
for terms certainly longer than one year should be
on the statute books, though such Acts would not
necessarily be the same for such widely-divergent
States asj Westralia and Tasmania. The appearance
of oil, gas or bitumen does not necessarily mean that
the source of the indication lies in the immediate
neighborhood; the source may be miles away.
Practically no records exist for most of the likely-
looking oil country in Australia, and much of the
folded structure is so well covered up that no
geologist, whether he be a specialist on petroleum
or not, is able to pronounce a definite opinion
either for or against drilling for oil in certain dis-
tricts. The first real wells drilled in Australia for
oil —and in this category I include the present Roma
well—will be very little removed from “wild cat-
ting,” however honorable may be the intentions of
those conducting the operations.
The idea held by some, that the British and Allied
oil trusts are out to crush and discourage in every
way Australian enterprise in the search for oil in
the Commonwealth, is so much moonshine. But those
trusts are certainly not going to do the pioneering under
present conditions. So far. is I can see, syndicates
and small companies will still come into existence
for the express purpose of testing certain likely
oil-bearing localities, and, if the initial work is
properly conducted, and encouraging results are
obtained, there should be no reason why a good
deal with one of the interested big corporations
should not result. In that case it is easy to see
who will get the £50,000 reward, which is for
payable oil only. It would be far better if the
reward were made applicable only to those who, by
virtue of their- pioneering work, render payable oil-
production possible.
* * * *
In reply to “Roman” (B.
18/11/’2O), what I said about the Anglo-
Pexsian Co.'s engineers and the abandonment
of the old bores near the Vailala seepages
cannot be nonsense if it be true. If •‘Roman”
wishes to deny the thesis that petroleum does
not usually exist underneath a seepage of oil
on the surface he is looking for a controversy
in dialectics, and not for the truth about
petroleum mining. It so happens I’ve been
through Burma and know the Yenangyoung
oilfield and its history. Seepages there, as
elsewhere in the world’s oilfields, are indica-
tions that petroleum exists in the vicinity,
but wise oil-drillers do not deliberately “spud
in” to start a bore-hole right on top of a
surface pool of oil, which is there because it
has come up from the oil sands below. It’s
on top because it’s not underneath. “Roman”
confirms my contention that it was wrong to
bore near the seepages in Papua by stating
that at Salt Creek, Wyoming, oil is found
"li mile from the seepages at the outcrop.”
And probably if they go a mile and half from
the Vailala seepage they may get into settled,
unbroken country and strike oil. And that
was all I meant to convey.
From a man with ’Murkan oil experience:
\\ hile substantial rewards are being offered by
both State and Federal Governments the Mines De-
partments mostly sit tight in their belief that it is
all a hopeless quest. Certainly some of them view
the possibility with more or less open minds, but
surely it is the duty of a Mines Department to assist in
the search for -oil itself, and encourage Private
Enterprise in every possible way. Since my arrival
some months ago I have travelled over the greater
part of N. S. Wales, and from my experience on
oil-fields in other parts of the world, and from what
little geological investigations I have made, I can
see no reason geologically why oil should not exist in
certain parts of this State, particularly in the
Upper Coal measures of permocsrboniferous age
from north of Mudgee to near Dubbq. Small private
cos. are being formed to prospect- for oil in this
area, but, while giving Gunnedah and Capertee a
chance, I would prefer to operate from Dunedoo
west down the Talbragar River.
Koorboora Mines, which has spent about
£35,000 on machinery and plant at Koor-
boora (Q.), is transferring its gear to its
Two Jacks-Dalnotter line of lode. The Two
Jacks is an enormously large ore body, run-
ning along a shear-zone 300 ft. wide. The
tin occurs iu lenses distributed through a
chlorite formation, and discarding the bigger
horses of mullock and unaltered country
rock the lode could be worked as a low-
grade proposition on a large turnover, in
distinction to past methods, . which were
devoted to picking out the rich lenses and
shoots and leaving the lower-grade ore
behind. The show has been worked down
to the 250t‘t. level, but there are immense
ore reserves below that. The co. has an-
other promising string in the Tennyson.
As a result of the boring on the Styx
coalfield (Q.) it is now proposed to put
down a shaft and work the 4ft. seam at a
depth of 350 ft. The bores have proved an
area showing over 500,000 tons recoverable
in undisturbed country from this seam
alone; and as the present prospecting shaft
cannot supply current Rockhampton de-
mands it is considered good policy. to start
winning coal in this part of the field while
the boring programme is continued to prove
the extent of the coal-bearing country. No.
8 bore is being carried on to cut the Oft.
seam at a considerable depth.
* * * *
On the strength of a good assay from the
B.H. Prop.’s Newcastle steel works, a syn-
dicate has taken up a couple of manganese
deposits on Curtis Island, off Gladstone
(Q,). This grpund was recently examined
by a southern expert, who turned it down,
the best of his samples not going more than
45 p.c. manganese dioxide.
* * * *
Osmiridium to the value of £67,987 was
produced in the Speck during the past
12 months, an increase of £23,093 on the pre-
vious year’s output. The market has been
firm and a steady output is being main-
tained, there being between 300 and 400 men
engaged mining for the metal. At the
Burnt Spur, on the Savage River, a tunnel
has been driven across one of the bends in
the river to divert the flow and allow the
bed of the river to be worked during the
summer months. There are several other
bends that could be worked in a similar man-
ner. The State made only £lOO in the year
out of the osmiridium industry in direct
revenue, representing the ss. fee paid for
miners’ rights.
* * * *
A co. of 600 £lO shares has been formed
in Melbourne to take over and work the
South Esk tin-mine, near Avoea (Tas.).
This show was reported on favorably by.
McKellar and Wilson.
"8.C.”: The news that the German Dyna-
mite Co. has succeeded in making diamonds
of a decent size, if true, need cause no sur-
prise. The diamond is an example of the
remarkable physical forms of carbon. Lamp-
black, charcoal and graphite, or plumbago,
which are all black and soft, and the diamond,
which has the very opposite of these proper-
ties, are all carbon. 'When heated strongly in
a vacuum, diamond, lamp-black and charcoal
all turn into graphite. The diamond,
although its origin in nature is still a matter
of uncertainty, was made artificially by
Moissan in 1887. This chemist dissolved car-
bon in molten iron, and, after chilling the
mass, so as to produce a solid crust which by
its shrinkage severely compressed the interior,
allowed the whole to cool very slowly. Por-
tions of the interior of the ingot were treated
with acid, to dissolve the iron. Amongst the
insoluble particles were "recognised a few
microscopic fragments which exhibited the
form and hardness of the diamond. The
greater part of the carbon, however,
appeared as graphite. Moissan’s experiment
put chemists on the track, so the manufacture
of diamonds on a commercial scale is not
so improbable as it may seem.
* * * #
“Ting Ha”: “Blue Bill” (B. 23/9/’2O)
gives a very interesting rule for ascertaining
the true thickness of reefs, namely, mul-
tiply the outcrop width by the dip and
divide by 60. The example “Bill” gives
is so nearly correct that his method may
lead to appalling errors if pushed too far
by the unsuspecting reefer. As a matter
of fact “Bill’s” rule is true enough for all
practical purposes on dips from, say, five
to 40 degrees. Then it slumps badly! The
safest way for those who do not appreciate
the inwardness of trigonometry will be to
expose the reef on the hanging wall for a
horizontal distance exactly equal to the
outcrop width, and then measure from the
surface at right angles to the side of the
reef. This distance will be equal to the
true thickness.
Tf your house is wired for electricity, and you are
having trouble with your door-bell because of ex-
hausted batteries, you are being annoyed needlessly.
The famous little Wayne Bell Ringing Transformer
will ring your door-bells with the same current that
lights your house, and will need no further attention
after once being installed. Come in and see it
demonstrated. Australian General Electric Company,
corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Syd-
ney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne. — Advt. [4
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Win. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
40 per cent in fuel, less stoking' is required where it -is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Win. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [3
(Continued on page 22.)


THE TESTIMONIAL’S PROGRESS.
“London, Oct. 28.—Subscriptions to the fund which is being raised for Mr. Hughes, the Prime Minister of Australia, are falling off in a disappointing
manner, and are considerably below the amount that was expected. At its last meeting the committee decided to fall in with the decision reached in
Australia, and to make a vigorous ‘whip’ round the city with the object of interviewing people who are interested in Australia.”— Cable.


For the Hot Days.
A Peapes Panama —light and cool, shady for
the face and protective for the head —cannot be
bettered for hot-day. wear.
It is made of the genuine sun-bleached South
American straw, fine and even in the plait and
pliant so that the hat may be rolled or folded.
A hat for beach or bush, holiday or workday—
a hat that will keep your head cool when even, a
light felt would be uncomfortable to wear.
Brims to 2f inches
PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE.
30/-
Please state size required.
New catalogue just published will be sent on
request.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelie, Sydney.
For IMMEDIATE Delivery.
OIL WELL
DRILLING PLANTS,
Standard and Rotary.
The drilling of Oil Wells is a technical
business which requires special Plants
worked by experienced Drillers. Without
these testing for Oil is doomed to failure.
On application we will quote for Plants
and supply experienced Drillers, and advise
on all matters appertaining to testing for
Oil. [2
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
MINCHINBURY
“Hamer”: The “wife-starver” —the man
who goes to prison because of his refusal to
support his wife—is, under the system in-
vented by D. R. Hall for use in N. S. Wales,
given a “wage” while he is in gaol. It
amounts to 19s. 6d. per week, 10s. 6cL of
which is taken by the State for board and
lodging, the remaining 9s. going to the
missus. When the debt for which he was
sent to quod is satisfied the man is released ;
but by that time another debt has accumu-
lated, and in a couple of weeks' the woman,
if she is vindictive, can get him sent back
again. Suppose he has been ordered to pay
£1 per week, and the arrears are £9. It
takes 20 weeks of prison labor to work off
the dead horse, and he comes out owing £2O.
I know a man who has, in this way, beo>
seven times imprisoned since he returned
from the war in 1918, and he now owes over
£lOO. He alleges that his wife misbehaved
during his absence, which is his reason for
refusing to have the lady in his bed and •'
his board. There are days on which the
wife-starver earns nothing, but is still
charged the Is. 6d. a day. On the whole it
is a system that could do 'with inquiry.
“Rechercheur” : Touching the observations
of “Biobox” (B. 28/10/’2O) about the movies
and the rising generation, the tastes and
fancies of about 6000 youngsters in Mel-
bourne and suburban schools have recently
been investigated. About 800 say they never
see the flicks, and another 2000 set them-
selves down as occasional visitors, perhaps
on Dad’s pay-day. Of the others 2400 make
a weekly trip. 700 do the double, 170 are
three-timers, 40 four-timers, an odd half-
dozen miss only one night a week and a
round dozen go the whole hog. “Biobox’s”
suspicions about bad eyes and dreaming
weren’t far wrong. Forty per cent, said
they went home to dream their favorites
over again, and a quarter of the total didn’t
think their eyes behaved as well as they
should. The kids all have their favorites.
Of every hundred of them 40 like “comics”
most, 22 prefer their comedy tinged with
drama, and 29 sentimentalists sit up best
when a pure (or impure) drama is showing.
Given the choice of a trip to the movies, a
picnic or a good outdoor game on a Satur-
day afternoon, two-thirds plumped for the
picnic and a lot more than half of those
left in town would rather go to the movies
than play.
* * * *
“Y.Z.”: There is no quality of man so
useful to the detectives as vanity. One of
Melbourne’s best admits that when he wants
a man he endeavors first to discover his
quarry’s little weaknesses, the things he is
most proud of about his person.
There is always something, and
that is the feaftire the criminal
is most loath to sacrifice. Two
lads wanted lately on a murder
charge were particularly vain
of their hair, and wore it very
thick and combed well back.
Had they been willing to part
with their crops and go in for
a close clip their identification
and capture would not have
been so easy. The same big D.
tells of an engine-driYer at Bal-
larat, wanted for a serious
crime, who was possessed of
an enormous ginger moustache
of _ which he was inordinately
vain. “I tracked him by that
preposterous mo, and ran him
down, working as a farm-hand
near Horsham. He had dyed his
hair and was wearing a patch
over his eye, and at first
when I grabbed him I thought he had clipped
something off his fatal moustache; but he
had merely gathered the end of each tuft
into his mouth and was holding it there in
the fond hope of deceiving me.”
* * * *
From one of The Bulletin’s reverend
contributors: —
I am not going to open up a discussion of Conan
Doyle (I don’t suppose I’d be allowed to), but I do
hope that his visit will not weaken the authorities
in their campaign against the harpies who impose
upon the credulity of the public. Indeed, we shall
certainly be more pestered than ever by frauds,
who will call for more than ordinary attention.
A few days ago a returned soldier came to
consult me in Brisbane about his wife, who
had just been to a clairvoyant. The clair-
voyant, a woman, gave her a “reading” and informed
her of her husband’s infidelity, and “the woman in
the case” was pointed out in the depths of the
crystal. To balance matters with her allegedly
unfaithful husband, the wife was advised to look
out for “an affinity,” and the suitable partner was
pointed out to her in the crystal! The poor woman,
who had been doped by this fakir, went home and
challenged her husband and threatened to leave him.
The husband, in order to placate her and to defend
himself, advised her to consult an “X-ray clairvoy-
ante,” Madame X —, on the question, of his infidelity,
and waited calmly and in patience for the verdict.
The verdict of the “X-ray clairvoyante” was that
he was “a kind and faithful husband,” who had led
a more or less angelic life, during a four years’
absence from home, amongst many temptations in
France and Flanders. But the wife, whose nerves
were shattered, owing to four long, weary years of
anxiety over her husband in the war-zone, still
clung to the delusion of the husband’s infidelity;
and the result is the home is a hell and the divorce-
court or a tragedy is pending. The ease, merely one
of many that have come within my knowledge, illus-
THE MATERIALIST.
THE OLD 'UN : “Good morning, brother.
Had only a small congregation last
night, I believe?”
THE YOUNG 'UN: “Small congregation, yes.
But, ah! the church was filled with
angels and archangels.”
THE OLD 'UN (again): “Maybe, brother,
maybe. But they never seem to notice
the collection-plate.”
trates the alarming state of things existing in our
midst, perhaps unknown to those who are respon-
sible for the material welfare of the community.
* * * *
“Mrs. D.”: Why visit the contempt of
the community on the flat landlord alone
when the matter of barring baby is under
consideration? There is another important
element in our domestic economy just as
remorseless in blocking the young of man,
and that is the maid servant. The first
question of the honed-for incoming Ann is:
“Any children?” And if you have to admit
your indiscretion in being mother of three
it is 50 to 1 Ann will begone. A friend
of mine, trying to induce a bulky Liza to
go into the country to a general’s job, had
the test question put. “Yes,” admitted the
lady remorsefully, “I have three.” “Oh,
then, I couldn’t think of it.” “But my
children are very well behaved. They give
no trouble.” “Can’t be done, mum.” “But
why?” “Well, mum,” said Liza, “I have
one of my own, amj it’s as many as I care to
have about the house.”
INDEXED.
THE REJECTED : “ Anyway , you’ll remember
me as a trier.”
THE REJECTER : “Yea, I’ll remember you as
VERY trying.”
A tale of the perfidy of man:—
The hero of this true story is a young man high up
in a softgoods warehouse in Melbourne, and named
Dobson, if you like. Lothario Dobson became
enamored of an attractive young person in a lolly-
shop, and neglected his duties to sprawl over her
counter, enumerating her physical and spiritual per-
fections for her personal gratification. He took
Maud to little dinners, he led her to frivolous enter-
tainments, and they had
suppers later in the day.
Sometimes Lothario Dob-
son took Maud for little
motor runs on Sundays,
and time went slowly on.
Came a day when Lothario
entered Maud’s shop much
as usual, and Maud, beg-
ging to be excused for a
moment, withdrew to have
a. few words conveyed
over the wires. Then she
rejoined Lothario, and was
as amiable as hitherto till
that moment when a
shrill voice behind said
“Lothario! ” Lothario
swung round, looked once
at the indignant blond
female who had apparently
been standing within ear-
shot for some time, and
threw up his hands. “Gee
whizzer! My wife,” said
he. “Yes,” said Maud the
deceived and betrayed,
“your wife!” She asked me
to ring her up next time
you called, and now I
hope she is going to make
your life hell.” “Maud,”
said Lothario brokenly,
“Maud, I would never have
believed it of you!” He
turned like a wrecked
hope and followed the fair
lady. Only when Maud
heard of his marriage three
months later did she
begin to suspect that
her Lothario had perhaps
entered into a conspiracy
with the fair person to
break what was developing into a dangerous en-
tanglement. The suspicions of Maud of the lollies
were well founded —Dobson had never had a wife
before.
* * * *
“Gingerbeer”: Not every A.I.F. victory
was scored in the face of the enemy. The
C.O. at the Engineers’ cadet-school, Haynes
Park, England, was an evil-tempered little
blighter with a passion for “clean soldiers.”
*To him an even slightly dull polish on spurs,
boots, leggings, etc., or one or two whiskers
on the face where the issue-razor had re-
gistered a miss, constituted ‘‘flirt” and called
for a deafening rebuke. A sth Divvy Digger
came on to parade one morning spotless, save
for a bit of blanket-fluff on the flap of his
breast pocket. Now blanket-fluff was to this
C.O. as a street full of pubs is to a Pro
hibitionist. “What’s that! What’s that!” he
screamed. “Good God ! man, this isn’t a
blanket inspection!” He then took one step
forward and attempted to pick the filth off.
After he had pulled out about a yard of the
knitting-wool which the rigid young soldier
before him had put in his pocket with the
end threaded through the flap, the 0.0.
passed on realising there was plenty more
available. He inspected us at a distance for
the rest of the school.
* - -X- * #
Plobart Methodists have just celebrated,
with much waving of hallelujahs and con-
siderable solemn reminiscencing in pulpit,
press and tea-meeting, the centenary of their
attack on the Vandemonian devil. Said one
celebrationist: “Born 1820, we are”—; —
“Still going strong,” interjected a piping
voice from the audience. The roar of
laughter indicated that even Methodists read
whisky advts.
* * * *
Melbourne magistrates are not waiting for
a bishop, or even a politician, to get killed
before they jump on the fiery, untamed
motorist. The other day a car-driver ran
into a crowd waiting to get on a tram, and
when he finally stopped two badly-damaged
women were hauled from under the weapon.
The P.M. was quite angry at his behavior,
told him that he and his like must be taught
that the streets were not for them alone, and
struck him down with a fine of 20s. Motor-
ists won’t be in a hurry to take risks with
a law that has a punch like that!
“Ex-Dig.” : The military record of criminals
who claim sympathy as returned soldiers is
now produced in court; and usually the re-
sult is what this writer contended it would
be. One offender’s military history showed
that he had been a member of the A.I.F.
since 1915, had never seen a fighting-front,
had done several stretches for being a.w.1.,
and had served a sentence of 12 months for
a serious offence. Yet the Solomon who tried
the ruffian bleated that he “did not want to
turn a returned soldier into a criminal.” The
impostor should have got time and a half
for claiming to be a soldier.
SONNETS OF THE BURNING HEART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Freudians aver tha-t persons who dream about
flying, swimming, climbing, etc., are suffering from
sexual repression, or something equally imbecile.
The old theory as to the causation of dreams will do
me —unaccustomed lobster, a surfeit of cucumber, or
mixed drinks.” — “M.D.” in The Bulletin.
I.
I felt it in the whiskers of my heart
Beneath the corsage of a slow regret,
A movement to an ancient music set,
Yet languid with a long and laboring art
As of a heavy-freighted market-cart
Toiling through sandy ruts, where never yet
Wheels passed without the hissing fume and fret
Of whips that stung dull horses to their part.
Long in the whiskers of my heart it stirred;
And thrice I beat with zeal upon my breast,
Counting distresses by their name and number.
The Ancient Mariner might pluck his bird,
Ease come to Jonah’s whale; but who shall rest
Beneath the pickled horror of cucumber?
11.
Bi-carbonate of soda, wet and hot,
Is no fit beverage for the heirs of rhyme
To quaff three dreary mouthfuls at a time;
Yet, draughts of happier vintage long forgot,
I sip the tasteless evil, recking not
What monsters moved within the ancient slime
If but one monster move its place of crime
From my sad brisket to a milder spot.
Charcoal-and-bismuth and pale soda-mint,
The nigger and albino of the drugs,
Be near me in the tumult of the fight.
The stubborn woe is slow to take a hint.
Closer and closer to my heart it hugs
The heavy, burning volume of the night.
111.
It is the price we pay for being brave,
This sleepless vigil mocked of stars and cows.
A goat eats sawdust with unruffled brows;
The shark absorbs a predigested wave
AFTER THE ROW.
ANNA : “She said she wouldn’t be seen out
with you.”
BELLE: “No, she wouldn’t either. Every-
body would be looking at me.”
Wherein, perchance, beyond all power to save,
Are pure pink feet made sweet with maiden vows.
All nature to its dinner featly bows
And cares not how its inner parts behave.
But we, whose noses sniff the morning air,
Whose ears can catch the music of a thought,
Whose chins may dimple to a lover’s touch,
Sit with our bosoms tortured past repair
In toils of agonising sorrow caught;
And, mourning, feel the burden of too much.
IV.
Hence, dreams of climbing up or falling down!
Hence, thoughts of walking on or standing still!
Hence, roses clutching at the window sill,
Green with the aphis that their buddings drown!
Hence, all the boldest bargain-sales in town!
Hence, picture-shows that hold the latest thrill
Of murder done with sevenpenny skill!
Hence, eighteen pence and also half-a-crown!
Holiness, goodness, justice, honor, truth,
Hope, virtue, knowledge, beauty, faith, delight,
Gold, silver, music, love, the Irish question,
Silk, paper, prayer, theosophy and youth—
What are all these when in the mangled night
Sleep dies, a sacrifice to indigestion?
N.s.w.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


DO YOUR XMAS THINKING NOW
Do not be like the multitude who wished they had.
Think Xmas Think Chocolates Think Golden Gate
and your Christmas worries are over.
We have gathered from the world’s markets a wonderful assortment of the most
BEAUTIFUL BASKETS AND SWEETMEAT BOXES
ever brought to Australia.
These are attractively decorated and most exclusive in design and exquisite in colorings, marvels of beauty
and absolutely new
Boxes and baskets are filled with our hand-made, hand-dipped Chocolates, each piece being a mouthful of
exquisite delightfulness—creamy, fruity and nut centres —smooth, crisp coating, in fact, GOLDEN GATE
CHOCOLATES.
Daintily and carefully packed.
Also our Blue and Gold Chocolates, in
boxes, from 7/6 to £l/7/6.
Various sizes from 6/6 to £6/6/-
And SUPER CHOCOLATES. Milk and
Bittersweet assortments. Boxes 6/- & 10/6.
These prices include all packing and postage charges.
Golden Gate Sundae Shop, Pitt & Market Streets, Sydney.
■
.... v' ) ;::
I
§?
A PROPER SAFEGUARD.
SOL: “ What are you giving Rae as a mar-
riage settlement, Mrs. Cohen?”
MRS. COHEN: “Why, Sol? Are you falling
in love with her?”
SOL: “No fear! I don’t set my house on
fire till I’ve seen the insurance policies.”
MERCURY-proprietor Davies returned to
Hobart the other day from Canada. The
home-coming was thus described in the Tas-
manian Mail, the Mercury’s weekly:—
CHAT.
Hon. C. E. and Mrs. 0. E. Davies were met at
the wharf last week on, their arrival by the Manuka
by a large number of friends and relatives. Owing
to the cold, wet evening it was thought better not
to bring their two children to the wharf, but directly
the greetings were over, Mr. and Mrs. Davies and
Mrs. Davies’s sister and brother-in-law (Mr. and
Mrs. E. O. Bisdee) drove to the City Hall, where
little Miss Cecily Davies was taking part in a fairy
dance at the exhibition of children’s dances by pupils
of Miss Gladys Smith. After this happy meeting the
party drove on to Lyndhurst, where tiny Master
Charlie Davies was awakened, fortunately emerging
from the Land of Nod all good-humored smiles, to
receive and return the caresses lavished upon him.
Most happily, Mr. and Mrs. C. E. Davies return to
find their two children in the best of health.
How many newspaper proprietors in the
Commonwealth would have the courage to
permit the family to goo-goo its welcome in
papa’s own paper?
OUR UNHAPPY WIVES.
“My husband has just rung up to say he
won’t be home to dinner to-night.”
“Aren’t men brutes! Mine has stuck at
home every night for over a week.”
Perhaps to console him for his ill-luck
with Father Jerger and Martin Hannah,
John Wren was the other evening presented
with an easy-chair which bore an inscrip-
tion and a coat of arms, including a drawn
scimitar and a rampant lion. The motto,
it is understood, was “Toto coelo,” which,
freely translated, means “By the tote to
Heaven.”
* * * *
“Dido”: My friend young Budkins was
at a vaudeville show in Melbourne, and be-
came deeply interested in a pretty, fair
thing in pale blue—if a young
person can be said to be in pale
blue when she is really- standing
out of it. But the impressionable
young fellow’s enjoyment was
marred by the horrid conduct of
a sort of usher, song-seller, rough-
neck and general rouseabout who
was continually walking over him
and around him in the most trucu-
lent way. At length the worm
turned. “Look here,” whispered
Budkins, “that is the fifth time
you have walked on my feet. Do
it again and I’ll shift your chin.”
The functionary turned on him a
blaze of white teeth and
dilated eyes and snorted,
“You make-a de seegnal
to my-a girl on ze stedge,
I break-a de face.”
Despite this warning my
young friend was taken
behind by a pressman
before the show ended and introduced to
the little thing out of pale blue. He laugh-
ingly referred *to the Dago usher. “Oh, don’t
take any notice of Giuseppe,” she chirruped.
“He thinks he’s my husband just because we
happen to be married.”
* * * *
“Mr. Ocky”: The boys were very discon-
solate that night. Old Tim at the pub had
got the wind up and was strictly observing
the licensing laws until the trouble with
the John Hops had blown over. “Tim’s
turned us down,” they sorrowfully informed
Patsy when he joined his thirsty mates in
the dismal street. But Patsy’s brains quickly
solved the problem. Through the keyhole
of the pub-door he roared gladly: “Tim,
have yer heard the good news? Dr. Mannix
has slipped ’em up and got to Ireland.”
There was a rattle of bolts, and the door
flew open. “Begorra, is that so?” exclaimed
the delighted Timothy. “Come inside, every
mother’s son of ye.” And they did —for a
great night.
An Adelaide jeweller has had the unusual
experience of getting a verdict for damages
against a policeman. He was innocently at
the back of the grandstand at Morphettville,
when a detective stood him up against a
post and demanded certain betting sheets
which he was said to have received from
someone else. He claimed £2OO for “false
imprisonment and assault,” and got £25.
The ’tec said in the box that he did not now
accuse the plaintiff of aiding and abetting the
unknown bookmaker, but at the moment he
thought an offence was being committed, and
acted “promptly but not roughly.”
* * * *
“Kopai”: Despite better wages conditions,
classification and sundries, all is not well
with Victoria’s technical schools. Though
almost carte blanche has been given the
theorists in experimenting with the “Col-
leges,” the Education Department is unable
to hold its young-men officers, any more than
it can overcome the tendency of students to
drift to unskilled occu-
pations after they have
had a few months of the
college courses. Hoad-
ley, M.Sc., 8.M.E., who
was with Mawson’s Ant-
arctic expedition, the
man who has the fame
of “making” Footscray
Tech., and Everett, first
principal of Brunswick
Tech., are throwing up
the Department’s £OOO a
year to go into ordinary
commerce; Hoadley as
manager of an engineer-
ing works, Everett to
resume his old vocation
of architect. Other of
the young men are rest-
less. Nothing is said
which indicates dissatis-
faction within the ser-
vice ; but those who can
do so simply fold their
calipers and silently steal
away. Meantime glow-
ing reports of the altogether-loveliness of
everything in connection with the schools
are submitted to Department and to college
advisory councils; and the heads gather
together periodically to hold mutual-admira-
tion feasts.
* * * *
“Roundsman”: A Melbourne paper lately
gave a word picture of Federal Ministers at
their offices (all save Hughes, who was at
home, a bilious ruin) the day after a hard
all-night sitting. They were weary with use-
less recrimination, and they were affable
with difficulty. Some were pallid; some
were flushed ; some were badly shaved; some
looked as if they had slept in their clothes,
and all had obviously slept in their hair
save those who hadn’t slept at all. There is
something to be said for the U.S. system
which makes all citizens eligible as Min-
isters except members of either House, and
something for the Swiss system by which a
member resigns when he becomes a Minister,
a new man being elected to recriminate for
the constituency. In the absence of any such
system elaborate listening apparatus is being
fixed up in Federal Ministerial rooms so that
the haggard portfolio-holder may listen to
the Billingsgate with one ear and to the needs
of the country with the other. But that will
merely wear out both ears.
* * * *
“Wizard” : A man had to be an all-rounder
to do any good in the Army. When the
Major found he was one bicycle short of
establishment, he proceeded, in anticipation
of the periodical return to H.Q. and its
consequent “Please explain,” to souvenir one
from a friend’s battery. The other major,
with the honesty and candour usual in such
circumstances, reported the shortage as
“destroyed by shellfire.” The first major was
detailed by the G.O.C. as President of a
Board of Inquiry to “inquire into and report
upon loss of bicycle No. 50,403, reported to
have been destroyed by enemy fire.” The
discovery of a piece of broken handle-bar
on the roadside nearby was sufficient evi-
dence of the catastrophe for all parties. The
President, warmly sympathising with his
friend, returned the necessary finding, thus
emerging from the affair as thief, judge,
mourner and chief beneficiary.
* * * *
A medical note from Papua:—
Dr. Lambert, of the Rockefeller Foundation, has
had his headquarters at Port Moresby for the last
12 months, and, aided in his work by six assistants,
he has travelled far and wide, and made extensive
observations on the prevalence of hookworm amongst
the “boys.” He has also been training the natives
in the elements of hygiene and preventive medicine,
and having visited and lectured at all the rubber
plantations in the vicinity, the end of the campaign
is in sight—he has planned to leave Papua some time
in December. Of course, copious notes have been
taken, and a large collection made of photographs
of life on the plantations, and particularly of native
audiences at scientific lectures, with a view, no
doubt, to their appearance at a future date in
sundry bulky volumes. Furnished with microscopes
and other needful apparatus, the party would visit
a plantation, and, having got the “boys” together,
the doctor would deliver a lecturette, at fresco, on
the life-history of the hookworm parasite, and illus-
trate his remarks by crayon drawings on a black-
board. An interpreter would explain things to the
appreciative niggers, who generally showed their
teeth in a broad grin when the booklets of
Anchylostoma duodenale were sketched. Owing to
the scandalous sanitary arrangements obtaining on
plantations, there hasn’t hitherto been much chance
of checking the acourge, let alone eradicating it;
but with the knowledge gained from simple demon-
strations on the spot, and the installation of proper
sanitary conveniences, there is hope of its early
disappearance —from the Moresby region, at all
events. The disease exists chiefly in the interior
of the country, and is brought to the plantations by
labor recruits. The coastal districts are compara-
tively free from the complaint. The native is not
of high value as a laborer at any time, but when
rendered anamic and wasted by the ravages of hook-
worm he becomes a burden; therefore it is in accord-
ance with sound economic principles to keep him
healthy, with a view to his assistance in industrial
settlement. When Papua is a thickly-populated country
the Rockefeller Foundation will have the satisfaction
of knowing that it put in some good work towards
that end.
* * * *
“A.G.”: Voltaire said that God shows
what He thinks of money by the kind of
people He gives it to, This epigram might
be adapted to indicate what the British Gov-
ernment thinks of its alleged war “Honors”
by the class of people on whom it bestows
them. For instance, there are in the N. S.
Wales State Parliament some half-dozen men
who went into the trenches and got badly
mauled by the Boche; but the only knight-
hood goes to a “soldier” who never did any-
thing more dangerous than look after the
distribution of socks and cigarettes from
comfortable quarters in London and Paris.
The rest of this latest precious batch con-
sists mainly, not of the men who went to the
front and formed battalions, but of the men
who stopped behind and formed syndicates.
* * * *
“De Finito”: When W. A. Holman was
Premier of N. S. Wales he once described
the Prime Minister’s Department (which is
for most practical purposes the Common-
wealth Government, since hardly any of
Hughes’s present colleagues would dare to
sneeze without consulting him) as the bot-
tomless pit. He remarked that all sorts of
reports, inquiries, letters, recommendations
and so forth flowed into it and few ever
came to light again. An example of the
way in which the Commonwealth pays good
money for reports which are apparently not
even glanced at by the autocrat and the
bureaucrats who run Australia, though they
PERHAPS HE WASN’T A PROFITEER,
AFTER ALL!
THE MODEL : " Mr. Umber says he nearly
sold a picture for ten guineas the other
day.”
THE RIVAL : “Well, perhaps it was worth it.
He always goes in for expensive frames.”
give useful hints to people in U.S.A. and
other distant places, is supplied by D.
McAlpine, who put in five years on a bitter-
pit inquiry. After he had been three years
on the job and had. written three reports,
which had been duly published by the Com-
monwealth and distributed broadcast, he
received an official memorandum asking him
if he had written anything about bitter-pit,
and, if so, what? He was able to point out
that the reports had been supplied to the
U. States universities at their urgent request,
and that just before the war he had received
an offer from Germany to pay specially for
an early summary of any further reports, to
be published in their official journal on plant
diseases.
CASE OF CONSCIENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 am, no casuist. lam the simplest soul in town.
Pray help me, then, to cogitate the case of Mrs.
Brown ;
And it will not harm you greatly, it will surely
break no bones,
If you give a thought in passing to the case of
Happy Jones.
There’s a lot of sense in being what you feel in-
clined to be,
In doing what you want to all day long;
And what you are and do can matter not a jot to me
While what you are and do does me no wrong.
Don’t think lam a rebel or a demagogue... no fear!
I am not even a Christian Socialist!
I simply say, if Mrs. Brown is kissed by Jones, that
here,
If Brown don’t know his missus has been kissed,
The sin seems merely venial, though the law, of
course, allows
That no man without harming Brown may kiss
Brown’s cosy spouse.
I only want to get things straight. If Jones demands
a kiss,
And Mrs. Brown is kisswardly disposed,
Where is the dire iniquity of such a thing as this,
Assuming (please!) blinds drawn and doors fast
closed?
Further, if, being kissed by Jones, young Mrs. Brown
is glad,
And finds the world a happy sort of place,
Where is the dreadful outrage on one Brown to make
him mad,
And how is shame cast on the human race?
If Jones may hap to get a kiss that Brown would
not have got,
Does Brown lose anything at all ? Where is the
wrong, if not?
But, wait —there’s more than that in it. Consider,
next, the joy
That flows to Mrs. Brown from Jones’s lips.
It is a joy, as poets sing, that cannot stale or cloy,
A joy for which brave men have burned their ships.
If Jones is weighted down with care that rubs him
on the raw,
And pleads with Mrs. Brown to comfort him,
Bearing each other’s burdens, mayn’t they still fulfil
the Law?
Aren’t we here to help our neighbor, sink or
swim ?
So Mrs. Brown, who seems to err because by Jones
she’s kissed,
May shine in Heaven, after all, as a philanthropist.
And Mrs. Brown, demurely pleased, may find, the
world more sweet,
So by her added sweetness Brown may profit.
Virtue may flourish somehow on old Prudence’s
defeat,
And if dear Brown don’t guess the kiss, what of
it?
I’ve not been kissed myself, because I am a moralist
Most sobersided, orthodox and grim,
But sometimes when I dream that Jones has by
Brown’s wife been kissed
I have it in my heart to envy him.
Well, there’s the case of conscionce; and you can
judge, maybe,
Between Mr. and Mrs. Brown, and Jones, and Fate,
and Me.
N.S.W.
JOSEPHUS Q. HARRIS.


TH E
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees.
New South Wales: Victoria : Queensland
The only Trustee Company having:
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Hackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Sir H. Y. Braddon, K.8.E.,
M.L.C., F. B. S. Falkiner, James Kidd, W. H.
Maekay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan Sinclair.
G. WATSON,
Assistant Manager.
JOHN HAIR,
Manager.
2
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
Lamson Co., 102
Olderfleet, Collins Street Melbourne.
N.Z. John Proctor. 200 High St., Christchurch
W.A. —H. Little &• Co., 851 Hay St., Perth
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS-
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARniNG ROOF GARDEN.
Management V. T. CHEIiSRMAN.
SGEWO%
** EXTRA HIGH GRADE 4 *
SMOKING TOBACCO
Sliced Plug or Ready-Rubbed
is the Original Tobacco of
this style.
Does not bite the tongue.
In tins from all Tobacconists.
2] R. TOWNS & CO,, Sydney Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Another of Maoriland’s old-time fighting
Liberals took the count last week —Alexander
Hogg, who held the Masterton seat in the
House of Reps, for over 20 years. He was
75 at the finish, and all through a long,
active and useful life had suffered from the
afflictions incidental to honesty of purpose
and frank, unequivocal speech. Hogg never
learned to be a balancer. In his early days
as a pressman and politician he fought man-
fully against the curse of the land monopo-
list. The small settler never had a better
friend in the public life pf the Dominion
than this blunt, tactless Scot with hard,
rasping voice, rugged, dishevelled appear-
ance and heart of gold. When Joe Ward
set about forming a Ministry after Seddon’s
death he beckoned to Hogg. But the grim
old battler was too much addicted to calling
things by their proper names to suit that out-
fit, and Ward elbowed him out in circum-
stances which left none of the credit with
Joe. In the long ago Hogg was mining and
storekeeping in Vie. for a crust, but cross-
ing to Maoriland invested all his capital in
a pen and used the implement with elephant-
ine emphasis for many a year. There will
be mourning on every little farm in Maori-
land for this vigorous champion.
While on a visit to Sydney the Semi tic-
looking Earl Carnarvon, one-time Secretary
of State for .the Colonies, invested largely
in city property. In 1890 Carnarvon died
leaving a widow, a daughter of the ducal
house of Norfolk.
The properties are
i n Castlereagh,
Regent, Oxford,
Elizabeth, Chalm-
ers, Forbes, Aber-
crombie and Vic-
toria streets (Syd-
ney), and at Rose-
ville and Banks-
town. An applica-
tion to the Court
for permission to
sell, at fixed re-
serves, has just
been made on be-
half of the widow,
now Dowager
Countess, who is
the life tenant.
CHARLIE GRAY,
who resigned his
position as secre-
tary to the Mel-
bourne Trades
Hall Council to
become a member
of the Vic. Fair
Profits Commission.
Died at Launceston, just short of 91,
David Ritchie, the oldest J.P. in the- Speck.
Born in Tasmania, he was educated for the
sea, but went instead to the California gold
diggings. Soon after coming back to the
Speck he began flour-milling, first at Perth
and then in Launceston; he introduced roller-
mills to Tasmania, and built the first concrete
wheat silo in Australia. But Launceston
will remember him chiefly as the man who
planted the willows —now some of the finest
in Australia —about the entrance to the
Cataract Gorge. His father, Captain Thomas
Ritchie. R.N., was Commandant at George
Town when that forgotten place was capital
of Northern Tasmania.
P. J. Gandon has gone over at 70, hating
womanhood suffrage to the last. A crusader
in hopeless causes, he was for years secretary
of the Anti-Suffrage organisation and of the
Freetrade and Land Values League, Sydney.
He used to journey long train-miles and use
up innumerable evenings in urging de-
bating societies to have nothing to do with
the poisonous enfranchisement of woman. At
one time he was Registrar of Friendly
Societies ; but for the last ten years he had
been a clerk on the Hansard staff.
The ratepayers of Adelaide, who have the
electing of their own mayor, have chosen
Frank Moulden, without opposition, to stay
in the chair for another year. Moulden is
only 44 now, and was very youthful for a
City Councillor when he took up municipal
work 17 years back. He could have been
mayor long ago, but waited till he had a
wife, and now she (formerly the Hackett
lady of Perth) helps in the most practical
ways to make the appointment popular.
“JOHNNY” DOUGLAS, captain of the
English XI; pictured by Mailey, who
took his wicket in both innings of the
match v. N. S. Wales.
Littleton Groom is the Chesterfield of the
Hughes Cabinet. In the art of answering
importunate inquirers with non-committal
platitudes he has no rival in Parliament.
Almost every sitting day he can be heard
affording the minimum of information with
the maximum of language. Naturally he is
a welcome lackey to Ministers who haven’t
his gift of evasiveness; so it often happens
that when a colleague like Poynton is being
worried by the Opposition Groom interposes
with his stilling verbosity. For over two
hours the other night he successfully dodged
the questions of Laborites over the suppressed
action, Merton v. Hughes. Every questioner
was answered with a fine pretence of impart-
ing knowledge to an ignorant minority, but
until Hughes voluntarily afforded particulars
Tudor’s men were no nearer the mystery
than when they afaegan. Altogether Groom is
a clever little fellow, and he deepens his
interest by his habit of adopting special
words for dumfounding his enemies. Just
now his favorite is “to function,” and when
he sprang it on a critical deputation the
other day there was a moment of profound
awe and then a general collapse.
Apropos of the Mahon incident an old
Gallery man reminisces:—
In the 64 years since Responsible Government
was established in Vic., Charles Edwin Jones and
Edward Findley have been the only two Assembly
members expelled. After nine nights’ debate McCul-
loch moved the two motions which tipped “Mint Sauce”
out on April 21, 1869. In that case a select com-
mittee reported first. Then Premier McCulloch had
carried a motion that Jones received money secretly
for or in respect of services in Parliament from an
association which adopted as one of its modes of
action the bribing and undue influencing of members
of Parliament in relation to the Land Certificates
Title Bill. The expulsion motion followed imme-
dlately. It mast‘have been a painful thing for
McCulloch, as up to the previous March 9 Jones
was McCulloch’s Minister for Railways and Roads.
Ballarat West promptly re-elected Jones, and he
took his seat on May 25 (34 days after his expul-
sion). Findley had to suffer the blame of some-
body else’s act, but his was technically (in Parlia-
ment’s eyes) the responsibility. The Tocsin, a Labor
paper, reprinted an article from the Irish People
rating Cardinal Vaughan for going down on his
knees to present an address to Edward, whom it
flayed for the giddiness of his youth, and so on.
Alec Peacock, who was Premier at the time, sub-
mitted the motion which outed Findley, and Irvine,
then Opposition leader, aided and abetted the appli-
cation of the boot. Findley (who was publisher)
declared he only saw the article when the Argus
(which, like the P.L.C., loves expulsions) made a
fuss. The ad. Findley got helped to put him in
the Senate for nine years or so, and while there
he drew some salary as an assistant Minister.
“Hegee” : The grotesque spectacle of Gerald
Hogan, Acting-Justice in the N.T., impar-
tially upsetting his own decision given as
magistrate, reminds me of Sammy Mitchell,
once I ooh Bah of Oue (W.A,). Sammy,
among other things, was town clerk, secre-
tary of the Health Board, municipal valuer,
mining inspector and proprietor of the lead-
ing pub. As owner of the grog-dispensary
lie appealed against his own valuation as
municipal assessor. As town clerk he wrote
a threatening letter to himself as the
aggriev ed landlord, whereupon the person
paid up. As secretary to the local Health
Board he again got into holts with himself
through his pub falling into disrepair. As
inspector under the Mining Act he prose-
cuted himjself as secretary of a mining
company lor a breach of the regulations
ielating to the safe working of machinery.
As secretary of the racing club he periodi-
(ally invited himself to attend the meetings
and luncheon, and never omitted the for-
mality of posting himself an acceptance. A
quaint and courtly old chap was Sammy.
He kept all the correspondence and took a
certain pensive pride in showing it to
strangers.
Concerning an energetic citizen who may
be the man for Kalgoorlie-
Cxeoige Foley, who will try to win Kalgoorlie for
Hughes, has been M.L.A. for Leonora since 1911.
He won the seat as a supporter of John Scaddan and
held it as a National Laborite after the party split.
Leonora is a small but pertinacious electorate, and
George has correspondence with about 50 per cent,
of his constituents. Being a whale for work he got
himself elected to his local municipal council (Leeder-
ville), then to the Perth City Council and then to
the committee of the Trotting Association, and, his
appetite for toil still unsatisfied, he became an
honorary complaints officer at the Defence Depart-
ment in Perth, smoothing away the grievances of
hundreds of worried Diggers. And even then he
found, time to write readable short stories. Being,
known throughout the eastern goldfields, and a
hustler withal, Foley is a likelier candidate than
Heitmann, who is by no means personally popular
and was not much more attentive to local needs than
Mahon was. Considering' the peculiar circumstances of
the case Foley is about the strongest man the
National Laborites could bring forward.
Sub-inspector John Coady, who died at
Woollahra(N.S.W.) the other day, spent por-
tion of his 83 years in pursuit of Thunderbolt,
the bushranger. On one occasion Coady and
his men nearly nabbed Thunderbolt, but the
fleetness of the latter’s mount saved him.
The bushranger kept a fair string of horses
Coady_ rounded up 13 of them and brought
them into Taree, where they were sold by
auction, the late H. Elett, then member for
the district, buying Thunderbolt’s favorite
horse. Coady was a Kilkenny man, and
came here in the ’sixties.
William Senior, journalist and sportsman,
who lately signed off in London, at 82, estab-
lished and was the. first editor of the
Bananalarid Hansard. He was imported
trom England to assist at the birth of the
dreary old affair. At one time he was
travelling correspondent of London Dailv
Aews, and he contributed hundreds of read-
able articles about fishing and other thrilling
sports to the Field.
Bob McGregor, who has been given an-
other lease as chairman of committees of
V ic. Assembly, has been member for Ballarat
East for 26 years. George Turner made him
an hon. Minister in his second Cabinet at
the end of 1900. He was keenly disappointed
that Peacock did not promote him to a
salaried portfolio when he became Premier
early in 1901; but Peacock had a sudden fit
of economy, and decided to do with one
Minister less. It was McGregor’s last
chance for a Ministerial job.
The feature of his indictment of Mahon
that pleased Hughes least was having to read
the letter of the then member for Kalgoorlie
in which Mahon, with happy malice, dwelt
on the great historical display of courage
made by “The Little Digger” himself when,
to dodge a German torpedo, he forsook the
vessel in which he was expected to sail to
England, stole away, and took a different
route, leaving the passengers and crew on the
threatened vessel to enjoy their enhanced
chances of being blown to Kingdom Come
Hughes, driven to it, read that page of his-
tory, and consoled himself by putting all the
sting he was capable of into the subsequent
reflections on his old friend Hughie. But
it was no good—a flight like that is inter-
minable.
The picturesque figure of Montague Miller
will decorate a soap-box no more. He was a
fine-looking, sincere and simple-minded old
Australian, with a noble voice and a flow of
real eloquence ; but he held extreme views and
was utterly unpracti-
cal, consequently he
never won to the posi-
tion that his talents
qualified him to fill.
For the last quarter of
a century the veteran
had lived in Perth, and
fie was past 80 when
the end came. A tra-
dition grew up about
him that he fought
with Peter Lalor at
Eureka, and was
bayoneted when the
stockade fell, but the
story he himself told
before his memory be-
gan to fail was that as
a youngster at Ballarat
he visited the scene of
battle the morning
after the fight.
LORD DIG BY, of
the new G.-G.’s staff.
“Old Vic. Galleryite” puts it this way:—
A stand-and-deliver toue was adopted when the
hat was being passed around among the business
community for the testimonial to Hughes; and there
is some bitter feeling about it —mostly unexpressed
in public. Should a Prime Minister or Premier still
in harness take a present? It is certain Alfred
Deakin would not, whether he was in or out of
harness. Irvine’s intimates say that one of his
regrets is that he did not scotch in time the move-
ment for a gift to him when he relinquished the
Vic. Premiership in 1903 owing to failing health.
As a compromise he permitted his wife to accept
the couple of thousand pounds raised. Graham Berry
retired after defeat in East Bourke Boroughs. After
37 years’ service he went out a poor man. Parlia-
ment grudgingly passed a Bill authorising the out-
lay of £3lOO to buy him an annuity of £5OO a
year. He lived six years, and then (sublime gener-
osity !) his widow was made a registrar of births
and deaths.
G. A. Cameron, C.P.S. at Brisbane, is
to succeed recently-retired G. L. Foxton as
representative of the Law’s might and
majesty at Thursday Island. Cameron
joined the public service in ’96, and after
some time spent in Gladstone and other
country towns, was transferred to the courts
at Brisbane in 1914.
Edward Lucas, Agent-General for South
Aus., is not to have an extension of his
three years’ term, although he is willing to
stay on. The Barwell Government believes
that someone “in touch with recent local
affairs” ought to take up the running every
third year. The Labor Opposition thinks it
can guess who the someone is.
Wettenhall has the most swank of the 13
Hayseed members in the Vic. Assembly. But
he will soon “find” himself, as Chirnside,
Philip Russell and others have done after a
few months in the same House.
Captain George H. Wilkins, who has gone
off to explore a slice more of Antarctica, has
one great qualification for the job; he’s a
good starver. When he was knocking about
in the Balkan War he was once captured by
the enemy and spent eight days without
tucker. He suffered most during the first
two or three days; after that he began to
think that eating was a troublesome and
much over-rated habit. When he did put his
teeth into something he reckoned that he
could have held out a good while longer with-
out getting too close to the shadow-line.
“I anikoro” : _ Special training and ability
ought not to disqualify a man, other things
being equal, for a Commonwealth job even
if he is a returned soldier; yet it seems to
work out that, way sometimes. Before the
war E. W. P. Chinnery was a district officer
and magistrate in Papua, where he did much
excellent exploration, pacification and eth-
nological work. He enlisted, got into the
Flying Corps (not a bad test of physical
fitness and alertness) and after the Armistice
went to Cambridge and specialised in eth-
nology with such success that for a term
he acted as locum tenens for Professor A. C.
Hoddon, one of the world’s recognised
authorities. But when a man was wanted
to lead an expedition, largely ethnological,
into ex-German New Guinea the job didn’t go
to Chinnery. And when an ethnologist was
required for Papua itself Chinnery’s claims
were enthusiastically passed over. There is a
heap of encouragement in Australia for a
man to let somebody else acquire special
qualifications.
(Continued on page 18.)
BALLADE OF THE BRAVE WOMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I'm half a scoundrel, half a blessed saint;
I love like angels, hate like poison, too;
I scorn to hide my failings under paint.
And yet I herd with Humbug’s canting crew;
I flout the world that looks at me askew
Until it gnashes hack maliciously.
I hold this life’s a pot of hopeless bfew—
God bless the \yoman brave that married me!
I worry half the township with complaint,
I laugh and sing with every morning new ;
I fill my time with day-dreams queer and quaint
And wail at eve about my prospects blue;
My bills are mostly big and overdue,
And yet I scorn the refuge of a spree ;
My chiefest joy’s a smile, ma chere, from you—
God bless the woman brave who married me.
I. scorn to lie, I’m all too proud to feint;
I love the old, yet dally with the new;
1 worship childhood's soul without a taint,
And yet I’ve crooked fancies not a few;
I’d be the heir of some big banking Jew,
Although I loathe the ways of usury;
I fear not want, yet hate the pinching shoe —
God bless the woman brave that married me.
Envoy.
In crazy contradictions do I stew,
Vet hail myself a stalwart soul and free;
Who loves me, dearest, loves a curious crew-
God bless the woman brave that married me!
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIREY.


o
fc»
0
E
U
\
BBT
jftP***-
|>
-WB
%
i
V
rri
<r,
**
w
r-'
«r
1
m
0.1
Smoking
Mixture
Aftrclsnlsd fonHnenh
All over Aust=
ralia Pipe-smokers
can NOW buy
their favourite
mixture in
2oz. AIRTIGHT TINS '
THREE STRENGTHS—MILD . MEDIUM’ FULL
CIVIC
THE
STANDARD
PIPE


Australian-made
Implements and Engines.
-
m
KAY
1/4
The Sunshine Harvester
Gets all the Grain.
Durable, Light in Draught,
Best Sample.
Illustrated Catalogue Fi;ee and Post Free.
Harvesters, Headers, Grain & Fertiliser Drills, Engines, Chaff cutters, Oat-
crushers, Saw-benches, Pumping Jacks, Spring Tine Cultivators, Lucerne
Cultivators, Orchard Cultivators, Disc Cultivators, Mould-board Ploughs, Disc
Ploughs, Stump-Jump Ploughs, Harrows, Swingletrees, Chain and Pulley Yokes,
Plough Shares and Farm Engines.
H. V. McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
BRANCHES:
Corner COLLINS & SPENCER STREETS,
56 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE*
36 PIER PERTH.
MELBOURNE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
STANLEY STREET, SOUTH BRISBANE.
Corner YORK & ST. JOHN STREETS, LAUNCESTON.
Edmund Jowett, allegedly the richest
member of the Federal Parliament, has more
duly-registered relatives than most people.
Soon after the voyage of the Mayflower two
of his collateral ancestors shifted rrom
Yorkshire to New England. Their descend-
ants, male and female, to the number of
11,000, are now scattered all over U.S.A.,
but they keep in touch with one another by
means of a Jewett (the spelling has wilted
a little in New England) society, which
keeps a register of them and issues a year-
book. They don’t all have to be Jewetts,
thou g h, as
descent through
the female line
is counted. Yet.
mixed as the
U.S.A. popula-
tion is, only
about 1 per
cent, bear any-
thing but Eng-
lish names.
DUNCAN
MACINTYRE,
skipper of
W.M.H.S.
Australmount,
of the Common-
wealth Gov-
ernment line.
From a Gallipoli prisoner-of-war:—
Those Australian generals who urged that “sport-
ing” treatment should be accorded General Liman von
Sanders were probably inspired by that fellow-feeling
which makes even generals kind. Their claim that
Von Sanders was a good soldier would not have influ-
enced those mere Aussie privates who knew him to
be a damn poor sport. In the Gallipoli days Von
Sanders was never too busy to inspect a fresh batch
of prisoners, and he could always spare a few min-
utes in which to badger them. With Australians he
was particularly facetious. After making the obvious
witty remarks on their bedraggled appearance he
would ask them if they did not feel extremely fool-
ish at having been so Quixotic as to aid England in
such a disastrous war, and hope piously that they
would enjoy themselves as guests of the unclean
Turk. I am quite sure that if I had come across
the General, fresh from the souveniring hands, of a
couple of platoons of M.P.’s and regimental “bobs,”
and on his way to be handed over to a gang of
ruffians who would willingly murder him for his
underpants, I should not have commented adversely
on Ms personal appearance, and dug him in the
ribs and asked him how he liked it. But then 1
never was what a General would call a good soldier.
Melbourne University professors may go
on strike yet. Harrison Moore, Dean of the
Faculty of Law, lately wrote to the Council
alleging that he and his mates are now about
the only sweated class in the community,
Allowing for the depreciated paper currency
and the h.c.1., he reckons that their salaries
are worth only half what they were a few
years ago. Dr. Moore did not say so, but some
professors are asking what they are going to
get out of the University appeal, and whether
there ought not to be some crumbs for them
when the State is putting nearly £200,000
into buildings and the public is asked to put
up £lOO,OOO for various slightly hazy objects.
If professors aren’t hazy objects, what are?
“Fighting Mac.,” othemvisfe Chaplain-Colonel
Mackenzie, has received his marching orders
—he is to take charge of the South Queens-
land district for the Salv’army.. On his
return to Australia Mac. could have had his
pick of jobs which would have made “the
magnificently poor” salary he receives as
a Salvationist look poorer still; but he has
stuck to his old work. And hundreds of
Diggers who have been down and out have
had cause to be thankful. Mackenzie’s par-
ticular chum amongst the padres abroad
was Father Fahey, D. 5.0., of the 11th
(W.A.) Battalion. When Mackenzie
visited Perth Fahpy climbed on to the plat-
form at the Salvo, “fortress” and remarked
that the other Digger was a man as well as
a brother.
Frank Ferguson, of Jeriklerie (N.S.W.),
is one of those youthful Australians who
have to get there. While at his local pub-
lic school he decided to be an engineer, and
joined an International Correspondence
School, which got him as far as a job with
the Vie. Water Conservation Board. His
last exam, was due in February, 1915, so he
put off enlisting till that 'date (his two
brothers had already joined up) ; sat, failed,
and immediately walked to a recruiting
place and was attached to the 21st Bat-
talion. After the Armistice he got on to the
staff of Borings’, one of the biggest London
firms of hydro-electric engineers. They sent
him to Norway and Sweden, and when an
important Belgian syndicate applied for the
best all-round man they had to investigate
and survey a power scheme on the Congo,
Borings’ nominated the ex-Digger. He is
there now, and as much at home with his
small army of Swahilis as he was with his
platoon in France.
An A.I.F. man put in a furlough in the
corner of Montgomeryshire, round about
Llansaintfraid, where W. M. Hughes was
born. The population of those parts- con-
sists almost entirely of Hugheses, Joneses and
Lloyds, and the
Hugheses, like the
rest, are mostly
small —very small
—farmers, making
a living on little
patches amongst
the hills. A good
m any of the m
would not appre-
ciate a speech by
their namesake, for
they have not the
English. Others
speak it for busi-
ness purposes, but
for all real talk
they use Welsh.
J. H. BUTTERS ,
general manager
and chief engineer
of the Tasmanian
hydro-electric
scheme, the
greatest in the
Southern Hemi-
sphere.
W. !I. Irvine earned his first tew pieces
of Australian silver as. a handy boy at
Melbourne Exhibition. He then taught
school at Geelong. Being the nephew of John
Mitchel, the Irish patriot, helped him into
the Vic. Assembly. He was a Home Ruler
and a Single-Taxer in those days, but he
soon recanted. He became Premier of
Victoria, M.H.R., Attorney-General of the
Common wealth, Chief Justice of Victoria
and Lieutenant-Governor. And the other
day the lad who used to open deal cases
at the Exhibition Building went into half-
mourning for the King of Greece.
“C.M.”: Anyone reading the Worker
(Sydney) would imagine the editor to be a
man in a cap of Liberty, dancing the Car-
magnole, with a bomb in one hand and a
bucket of blood in the other. As a matter
of fact PI. E. Boote is a mild, rather elderly
gentleman, with a quaint, sardonic turn of
humor and an amazing breadth of reading,
who will sit quietly in one’s smoking-room
by the hour, discussing Brahms, Heine, Cot-
man or any other intellectual leader, and is
himself a more than mediocre artist. His
prose style, when he is not polemical, is neat,
clear and varied ; and it is rather remark-
able that a man with such a mind should
hold the extreme opinions with which he is
credited. No one could wish for a more
delightful companion in intelligent talk, and
it is not difficult to believe his friends when
they say that in reality Boote’s influence in
the party is on the side of moderation. Per-
haps a little saving vice—say, a cigarette or
a glass of ligjit wine; —might do something
to soften his view of the hated capitalist.
But he is more than abstemious: he is
ascetic. > , • ■ ”£
TWILIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is something in the twilight when you’re keep-
ing watch at sea;
There’s a,whisper in the skylight that is all that it
should be,
When the faint soft tints of even seem like lovers’
breaths astray,
And the sunset leaves its leaven in the dough of
vanished day.
When you think of all that matters,
Daily tasks that twilight scatters,
Then your heart is yearning homeward towards the
thing's that count for aye.
She never said good-bye ter me. She never said good-
day !
She knoo that I was 'drunk as h — l, she scorned me on
me twa%.
Put still she knoo that I’d return,, and, sober,
smoodge to ’er. . . .
Gawd knoivs what’s in a woman; but it’s ivorth th’
waitin’ fur.
In the twilight lurks deception that will make wise
men as fools
Till their minds have no conception of all simple
daylight rules.
For they grow much more than human. They are
no more simple pawns
In the game of man and woman —-they are wond'rous
nymphs and fauns!
And the twilight-game’s worth playing—-
Bacchus, Venus, idly straying
Make the sunset seem a winner when compared with
sundry dawns.
‘‘‘Clear out!” ses she. “Gorstruth,” sez I, “this
game ’as got me beat.
I only ’ad two flamin’ beers ’n’ drunk one u-hisky
neat!”
“I’m done with you fer good,” sez she, “yer ’eart’s
a lump er stone;
Don’t you come ’angin’ round this ’ouse ’n’ tell folks
it’s yer own!”
The twilight shrieks its presence and the silent sea
applauds,
And the air is but the essence of departing daylight's
gauds.
And Love has spread her snare around and all things
seem sublime,
And in the breathless stars are found some priceless
gems of rhyme.
And in the west a planet
Seems as though the earth outran it,
As it sinks beyond the clear-cut rim that marks the
edge of Time.
Wot did I say to ’er? Gorstruth! I must ha’ gone
dead crook.
She never spoke no word ter me; but, cripes! th’
rotten look
She flung at me! I packs me bag ’n’ saunters to th ’
docks.
When they go crook these, women-folk are worse than
unwound clocks!
The Austral stars they beckon me. Aldebaran gleams
red,
Canopus flickers brilliantly, whilst Tomalhaut’s o’er-
head.
Old Sirius in greeting sends a message sweet,
apart—
And the jojmus message fleeting pricks my bosom
like a dart.
And my thoughts go homeward soaring,
Where a voice calls loud, imploring,
Calling me from out the twilight, to the place where
dwells my heart!
“’E’s just tli’ image of yell, Alb! Yeh thought that
I was wild?”
That’s wot she said! “I knoo iv’en you come ’ome
ye’d greet yer child 1”
The ways o’ .females beats th’ band; but, still, I
casts no slur —-
Gawd knows ivot’s in a woman; but....it’s worth
tli’ waitin’ fur!
AT SEA.
ALBATROSS.


,v • *
K
jP I *''L
L 4^'ii
I
■ •
[
I
«s
ft,:
■
1
vA
H
91
p?
I
w»
w
Wk
mr
‘t*" *-*
ipllili
A. AV
>,7 Spjgggjs;
. •
m
M
m
m
I
.
i
■
■
m
a
mm
i
I
me
B—hm»
MW-
SiS®
■
A * A
-^1
»
ass: :.;rAsF^^2^^SsMLai
«
' ■■?;
A >
■
if -’
*
SSjMAWgS*
■
MgffWgtj
A A -/.
28
i
IS
*'T
A ,A"' ' '
f vt
-
——
: _ !
;
: ■ ■
mm
": :
m
mm
:
Av>-- .’ '-.'
ft 4^
■ WiffMMiiWiiiiW
' I A ! J-
■*«»>*>•*.
'*' * j
a ■
Jl
mtit** Sf*l
I
W*
v *
' -
mm
m
yp
m
B®3§E&.&' 5
A 3
t&e.;
Res
4-
11
* v> •.
:v' ; Ma
m
E3lPl
*
j- m!;c S in a
Great Wester^
fJi . , 'i/r i£
rm
m
fi/i
* i Sow? Ito
eo
No wine experts are readier than those of
our valiant Ally France to admit that Aus-
tralia produces wines equal to the finest
French vintages; in fact experience has
proved that the Australian soil particularly
that of the famous Great Western vineyard
—is eminently suited for the growth of high-
class wines, and this, with the glorious Australian climate,
combines to produce a grape that is second to none in the
world for its quality and lusciousness.
The immense cellars at Great Western are the largest and
best-equipped in the Commonwealth, whilst the laboratories
are complete with the most modern appliances connected
with the industry.
“Great Western” Sparkling Wines have been
Awarded Me da is and Certificates
throughout Australia and at Phila-
delphia, Paris, Bordeaux, Amsterdam,
and other Exhibitions of the World.
“Great Western” Sparkling Wines are
Obtainable at All Hotels and
Licensed Grocers -
Great Western Sparkling Hock .
This Wine is somewhat of the same character as Burgundy, but its
flavor is more piquant and delicate, with just a suggestion of acidulous
freshness, associated with marked softness and limpidity.
Sparkling Burgundy—Red Label.
This is a rich robust wine, possessing fulness, softness, homogeneity
and verve; makes an excellent dinner wine, and is an undoubted aid
-in the treatment of those cases of physical weakness resulting
from malnutrition.
Great Western Champagne, Extra Dry,
“Special Reserve.”
A very fine and most excellent vintage with all the qualities of
roundness, lightness, body, vinosity and delicacy which are so
essential in any good champagne. It has carried off with unfailing
regularity the chief awards at the principal Commonwealth Shows.
Distributing Agents:
B. SEPPELT & SONS DTD.,
s ~- Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Fremantle.
• PERTH: Phil. Coyle.
' NEW SOUTH WALES: Brown & Co.
- TASMANIA: Irvine & McEachern.


m
W
The Hat a Man Wears.
MEN in general—and even those who require the superlative in suits and
shirts and shoes—are inclined to accept a hat that anyone might choose.
Others, however, appreciate quality and style, and to such men this
Orient Pure Fur Felt, which embodies these essentials, should have special
appeal. The price, too, adds to our claim of “Good Value,” and we invite
comparison with similar lines offering elsewhere. Colors: Steel Grey, Smoke,
Light Grey or Fawn; finished with black band and bow at side; brim 2\ to 2J
inches wide. Size 6 J to ?£, 16/11.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
David aJone^
Opp. G. P. O.
for Service
SYDNEY
Tel. City 6336 b
mmiwHiißWii*
mmJ
the. world s
BEST VALUE
H 383
Messrs. METHUEN’S
NEW BOOKS.
Send your name and address to Messrs. Methuen
and you will receive regularly their Illustrated
Announcement List.
JUST PUBLISHED.
EINSTEIN’S GREAT BOOK.
RELATIVITY: The Special and the
General Theory. By Albert Ein-
stein, Pli.D., Professor of Physics at
the University of Berlin. Translated
by Robert W. Lawson, D.Sc., Shef-
field University. With a Portrait
and five diagrams. Crown Bvo. ss. net.
A book by the discoverer of the world-famed
Theory in simple terms both for the student
and the general reader.
INTERNATIONAL POLITICS. By
C. Delisle Burns. Crown Bvo. ss.
net.
This book is a short statement, for the use
of the general reader, of the chief problems
which arise from the contact between different
governments and peoples.
TARZAN THE GREAT.
Messrs. Methuen have much pleasure in
announcing that they have published another
volume of the wonderful series of TARZAN
BOOKS, by Edgar Rice Burroughs, entitled
TARZAN THE UNTAMED.
Crown Bvo, 7/6 net.
This volume, with its unparalleled adven-
tures, will probably have the largest sale of
a series of books of which the popularity has,
in modern times, been unprecedented.
The other volumes in the series are:—
Tarzan of the Apes,
The Return of Tarzan,
The Beasts of Tarzan,
The Son of Tarzan,
Tarzan and the Jewels of Opar,
Jungle Tales of Tarzan.
Methuen 8 Co. Ltd.,
36 Essex Street, London, W.C. 2.
'is
c.
W*
jN
))
a
:
ecialbrdOil
Economy in
FORD Upkeep
FORD owners can now obtain
an oil which eliminates lubri-
cation worry. It is proving
this on hundreds of Fords daily, and
in addition showing a definite reduc-
tion in the cost of the Ford upkeep.
Unlike other cars, the Engine, Trans-
mission Gears and Disc Clutch of a
Ford are combined in one system.
One Oil must lubricate all, and
Texaco Ford Oil does this effec-
tively.
In Texaco Special Ford Oil you
secure all the well-known economies
of Texaco Motor Oil.
Texaco Ford Oil holds the SEAL.
More power is therefore secured.
There is no carbon trouble, and fuel consumption is reduced.
This means an all-round saving when compared with other lubricating
oils. Ask your enrage for TEXACO Special Ford Oil. You will
appreciate the improvement it effects. If local garage or store cannot
supply, please write direct to nearest branch of
THE TEXAS COMPANY (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
TEX'ACO
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth, Hobart, Launceston.
S.A. Agents: Geo. P. Harris Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
“THERE IS A TEXACO LUBRICANT FOR EVERY PURPOSE ”
TEX'ACO
K. 458
Bees and Ants.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ant is man’s perpetual enemy;
JL the bee is his steady friend. While
the white ants are anxious to pull
down my house, destroy my fencing-posts
and even fell my standing timber, while the
bulldog ants have bitter designs on my
person, and while the small black ants try
to steal my scanty allowance of sugar, the
ees ou merrily working among my
flowers and buzzing me a cheerful “Good
day whenever I pass. Right in the centre
ot my place of rocks and bloom, over which
float banners of white and crimson and
yellow in the flaunting sunlight, there is a
rough log containing a hive of native bees.
Around them when .they sparkle out in the
early morning—for Australian bees are like
flymg jewels in the silver light—there are
cups of gold and wells of scarlet and little
jugs of blue all set for the drinking and
all containing a measure of fine honey.
I wondered once if my bees would go
away and make a new hive, but they stay
on in the place I put them and seem thank-
ful for the providence that set the flowers
of their feast. I have been providence to
those bees, and they seem to know it. Their
home was originally on a high limb of a
led-gum ; but the white ants gnawed the
tree until the limb hung by a shred. Then
a wind blew in the night and the sleeping
hive hurtled down 40 feet through the dark-
ness and lay on the rocky bank waiting
for the first ruffian with an axe to split
the log and steal the store of brown honey.
I found them there, my little friends with-
out a sting in all their army, and carried
them to their place of happiness among
the flowers. Nothing disturbs them there.
At a single blow I could destroy their city,
murder their children and add sweetness
for a day to my own table; but they know
I will not do that. Somewhere in their
hive, perhaps, they rear altars to me -and
worship in some fashion of their own,
remembering the day I brought them up out
of Egypt, or celebrating the hour my first
stocks and pansies made bloom in the deso-
lation of winter —manna in the wilderness.
I have in my time been god to many cats,
a few dogs, some little birds and a genera-
tion or two of evangelical and utterly
humorless poultry; but the bees are the
only complete community of living creatures
who have owned my deity. I think I am
a very good god ; and I think the bees think
so.
They sing well in the mouth of the hive,
fine wingy lyrics with the taste of honey
in the rhymes; but they do not know what
is in store for them. Soon they will have
choice of gum blossom and rose, of white
bush-thorn and carnation; and the winter
will be a good time with all the vats full
of the best. Big bges fly a mile to share
their garden; but there is enough for all
and something over for export. And all the
time the ants are busy, busy storing a trea-
sure of obscene dirt, busy destroying and
biting and stinging, busy making journeys
to nowhere —and Solomoji would send the
sluggard to the ant to learn!
But how sweetly the bee flits across the
literature of the world and haunts the
memory of the soul. The warm scent of
honey is a kind of thought-music; for the bee
is a better emblem of peace than the dove
or the olive. The dove is a foolish creature
with a very dirty nest and an objectionable
method of feeding its young; the olive is a
Dago tree which in its individual lifetime —it
lasts a thousand years or so—has seen more
bloodshed than any other vegetable. But
the flower wears its colors for the bee, and
the bee plays a great part in the harvest of
seed; and where the thoughts of bloom and
harvest and honey meet there is peace—the
great peace that is itself a song. Most bees
carry a sting and refuse to use it except
under violent provocation ; but the Austra-
lian bee has no weapon even of defence.
Small, black, stingless and untiring, with
wings of fire, the small people of the air
work on at their splendid task of making the
bush. For a thousand ages every tree that
grew sprang from seed of their hybridisa-
tion ; and for a thousand ages the ant
worked to destroy what the bee had made.
Let the old proverb be re-written —-Go to
the native bee, thou striker ! And the bee
somehow seems to get a living wage even
when his groceries soar to a bough 200 feet
high.
Ease your wings, little friends, there are
2000 blossoms of garden pink ready to open
with to-morrow’s sun.
MABY McCOMMONWEALTH.
The Camp on the Beach.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Glow, fire, glow,
Through the frosty clarity of June,
Ringing, singing,
Comes the banjo bringing
Melodies a-tripping in their spangled shoon.
Oh ! high, low,
Swings the fettered shuffle of the tune,
And the panging, twanging,
Sets an echo clanging,
Clanging in the shadow of the dim sand-
dune.
Flow, sea, flow,
'Neath the vivid glitter of the moon;
Bright star, white star,
Trim your little light, star;
Know you up above ’twill be Spring-time
soon!
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


M^§MlggMs
HU
M
»
fl
~a
i n>
: .
11111 l
:,' ; ' : '""'^ v 'V' ■ . kC- jjPMHKiStopK^fMKS
mm
m
:
■ .' ■-s£- ! ‘
:
■
n .■
■ - a
v .V • *•’
»s^Mi
■ ...;■
!
w
I
% m •
Wm^
ih
mm
JP
■BIB
HI
ttt ;
a
9T.
■
m
i
*■. -i
®Si!
•>-iv
5T
fmm
Mi
m
W
■
■IS
■ ■
as
: . Hi
A
■
M
. . ' • ! ■•• •
6\
1
V.v' #
a
a
■:
n
wl
fJ
■. sa
!■■
I
SB
:
i
LS >
30
/
HE
na
1 O
Si*
3 -"i
■s
glfll
I "13
(g|
*| >
•:>
SIIC
:
: 111
mm
m m
.■•■'■■l:
I
■H
li
mm
98S Us
“ With my own Hands
I build them right.”
Every Miller Tyre is signed inside by the man who
makes it. He is held responsible for its quality.
This personal factor in workmanship ensures absolute
uniformity.
“Miller” experts aim at UNIFORM mileage—not record
mileage. Track records are made under conditions
favorable to such performances.
Rut “MILLER” Tyres are factory-tested for working
mileage. For this purpose eight test cars at the factory
run day and night under road conditions until the
tyres wear out. Every batch of “Millers” must measure
up to the average of 7000 miles. How this works
out in practice, in Australia, is shown by the fact
that Mr. C. M. Deane, of Sydney, ran a pair of “Millers”
8036 miles on the original tread!
Fit “Millers” —for real economy!
THE MILLER RUBBER CO., AKRON, OHIO, U.S.A.
ROBERT LITTLE &CO DlstnbutolS - BRISBANE: SMELLIE & CO. LTD.
I t^. l h t eMI l & ai c d o E: walter t “*
miller
road
x UNIFORM MILEAGE
yres


ORIGIMAI
BALATA
stSfiv
BRITISH
BELTING
Through eight years of con-
sistent service this big 16in.
8-ply DICK’S Balata- Belt has
stood up to reputation and
proven itself the right belt in
the right place.
The illustration (drawn from a
photo) shows a portion of the plant
at the huge works of the Clyde
Brick Co., Ltd., Auburn. In 1912
this progressive company, with a
full knowledge of conditions, de-
cided to use DICK’S Balata Belt-
ing on this heavy drive. Belt
trouble has since been unknown,
and the power that drives the
Plant of the largest patent kilns
in Australia has been smoothly
transmitted.
The belt is transmit-
ting 250-h.p. on a
Wolff PI i g h-s peed
Steam Engine. Driv-
ing Pulley is Bft. in
diameter, and Driven
Pulley 3ft.
Why not employ a belt
as good as this in your
plant?
Write for free copy of
our instructive Balata
Belting Boole.
I
James Hardie & Coy. Ltd.
SYDNEY,
Cnr. York &
Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE,
581-3 Little
Collins Street.
ADELAIDE,
30 Currie Street.
QUEENSLAND: The Queensland Machinery Co*.
Albert Street, BRISBANE.
ai& REES ROTURBO
ROTARY JET CONDENSER
SEPARATE
ATER SEAI
THE Rees Roturbo Rotary
Jet Condenser is a unit
outfit and not an assembly
of units. It has only one impeller,
which performs three separate
functions.
(1) Acts as an INJECTION WATER-
PTJMP, spraying the water positively
into the condenser.
(2) CONDENSES THE STEAM and
positively REMOVES the AIR con-
tained in same.
(3) Positively EJECTS the MIXTURE
of HOT WATER and AIR to atmo-
sphere.
THE IMPELLER ,
the one and only
running part in
the Rees Roturbo
Condenser. I t
has no rubbing
contacts. Thus
maximum life is
assured.
SEPARATE
WATER SEAL
Cross-cut showing the construction of the Rees
Roturbo.
WG WATSON &C°L TD
279 Clarence S i Sydneys
Tooth and Co., Ltd., brewers, etc., Syd-
ney :—■
Net To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves, servea
1910. £149,712 10 p.c. = £90,000 £59,712 £357,915
Transferred to Capital, £lOO,OOO .. 257,915
1911.. 207,565 10 p.c. = 100,000 107,565 365,480
1912.. 219,706 10 „ „ 105,000 114,706 480,186
Transferred to Capital, £lOO,OOO .. 380,186
Assets written up, £295,195 .. 675,381-
Transferred to Capital, £550,000 . . 125,381
Ord. Pref.
(10 p.c.) (7 p.c.)
1913.. 221,544 110,000 38,500 73,044 198,425
(10 p.c.)
1914.. 268,963 116,875 55,000 97,088 295,513
Transferred to Capital, £137,500 .. 158,013
1915.. 254,795 123,750 55,000 76,045 234,058
(9 p.c.) (7 p.c.)
1916.. 159,922 111,374 35,500 10,048 244,106
(6 p.c.)
1917.. 138,653 111,374 33,000 238,385
Written off Extensions Reserve,
£70,000 .. .. .. .. 168,385
1918.. 150,574 111,374 33,000 6,200 174,585
1919.. 145,007 111,374 33,000 633 175,218
(94 p.c.) (7 p.c.)
1920.. 159,189 117,562 38,500 3,127 178,345
That £159,189 for the past year is low-tide
compared with the £268,963 which flowed in
for 1914, when' the Ma State’s beer industry
was enjoying the fruits of the McGowen-
'Holman loan razzle. After a year of war
disclosed net profits slumped heavily, and,
though they are now slightly less than for
the year prior to six-o’clock closing, gradual
recovery is being effected. The Bulletin
will not, however, guarantee that what the
directors disclose is the full measure of net
profits. I Only eight years ago they admitted
that the brewery had, over an unspecified
period of years, done £295,195 better than
had been claimed by the published accounts,
and the fact that the div. rate is now being
lifted for both prefs. and ordinaries hints at
a wider margin of profit than meets the eye.
There are at present good reasons why the
directors should put a little more than usual
up the sleeve. No information is tendered
as to the allowances made for depreciation,
contingencies, etc., gross profits being shown
less all cuts. Though net profits are much
poorer than they used to be, this shows that
gross profits are larger:—
Profit on Management,
Brewings, Wages, Balance
Interest, etc. Excise, etc. of Profit.
1908 .. £368,139 £220,162 £147,977
-1913 .. 595,514 348,970 246,544
1914 .. 666,810 377,846 288,964
1915 . . 652,360 367,566 284,794
1916 . . 568,597 366,674 201,923
1917 . . 521,202 348,548 172,654
1918 . . 532,403 369,827 162,576
1919 . . 607,547 450,539 157,008
1920 .. 670,783 499,594 171,189
But it isn’t gross profits that count; and so
strenuously have outgoings increased that,
whereas in 1914 the management was able
to regard Bs. Bd. in the £ of its gross profits
on brewings as distributable surplus, there
is now only ss. Id. in the £ left. By the
way, the difference between the profits above
and those shown in the first table is accounted
for by appropriations to an employees’
benefit fund and to a reserve for workmen’s
compensation, £6OOO having been dropped
into each at the latest balance, making the
total to the credit of the former £45,838 and
of the latter £21,047.
In the following comparison of the balance-
sheet figures neither fund is regarded as a
liability:—
1910. 1915. 1920.
Liabilities .. ..£31,193 £59,209 £137,161
Assets: —
Breweries, etc. .. 662,379 1,426,474 1,554,073
Book debts , . . 195,932 235,048 341,362
Stock . . . . 125,575 242,879 249,410
Liquid . . . . 355,222 279,741 109,821
Paid capital in 1910 was £900,000; since
1915 it has remained stationary at
£1,757,500. But none of that increase
between 1910-15 was new money got in from
shareholders, the old capital having been
almost doubled by the issue of bonus scrip
provided out of reserves. After making the
latest appropriations visible reserves totalled
£175,345, made up of £lOO,OOO in a general
reserve, £40,000 to the credit of a dividend
equalisation fund, £20,000 set aside for de-
preciation (though current wear and tear is
evidently provided for in each year’s P. and
L.), and the balance of £18,345 representing
unappropriated profit. With these reserves
should probably be included the £21,947 to
the credit of the accident insurance fund,
which is as much a reserve as the accumula-
tion for unexpired risks in an insurance
office. Besides the visible reserves; there
are probably considerable internal reserves,
due to hard writing-down of assets. It
would be impossible to assess the true value
of a brewery’s assets at the moment. The
future of beer in N. S. Wales is still unde-
cided, though adjoining States turned down
the Pussyfoot party recently and the defeat
of Prohibition in the Ma State is practically
assured for a few years to come. It thus
seems likely that, for these few years at any
rate, the money which has gone into beer-
manufacturing plant, etc., in N. S. Wales
will continue to be used for that purpose;
wherefore the value of properties, plant, etc.,
is not dependent on what these assets would
be worth to a purchaser in another line of
business, plus whatever compensation may
be forthcoming in the event of Prohibition.
Most breweries, however, are also hotel-
owners ; and a new License Reduction Board
has got to work closing pubs. In the Syd-
ney electorate recently 46 of 314 Bungs were
invited to court to show cause why they
should not be deprived of their licenses.
Sixteen were ordered out of business. Par-
liament has yet to decide what compensa-
tion is to be granted to the ousted ; that was
a matter on which the 1919 Liquor Amend-
ment Act became tangled. Until a further
amendment is. effected the actual value of
pubs whose existence is threatened cannot be
ascertained. But property values have so
appreciated during recent years and book
values have probably been so well protected
that Tooth’s is not likely to be hard hit by
the operations of the Reduction Board. The
investor is now regaining a little confidence
in beer-shares. Tooth’s has lifted the div.
rate to 94 p.c. p.a., and at Sept. 30 shower!
255. 4d. of visible net assets to represent
each £1 ordinary. These shares have lately
changed hands at about 255., the 94 p.c. div.
thus giving a return of slightly over 7i p.c.
In pre-war days, when 10 p.c. divs. were dis-
tributed, as much as 48s. per share was
paid.
* * * *
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors
and Trustees’ Association (Launceston) :
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Proftts. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Sanf 101 _ / £902 10 p.c. = £545 £357 £11,091
sept., 1913. . Written £r)O(J _ . . 10,591
Mar., 1914.. 1015 10 p.c. = 551 464 11,055
Spnr iqi a i 927 10 » » 550 377 11,432
° • (Written off, £5OO .. .. 10,932
Mar., 1915.. 753 10 p.c. = 536 217 11,149
Sent- 1915 f 891 15 „ „ 868 23 11,172
° pc ” ■( Written off, £5OO .. .. 10,672
Mar., 1916.. 853 10 p.c. = 702 151 10,823
Sept., 1916.. 882 15 „„ 850 32 10,855
Mar., 1917.. 986 15 „ „ 850 136 10,991
Sept., 1917.. 1023 15 „ ~ 787 236 11,227
Mar., 191 S. . 856 15 „ „ 787 69 11,296
Sent- tQiQ j 983 15 „ „ 795 188 11,484
oepl -, •( Written off, .. .. 10,984
Mar., 1919.. 853 15 p.c. = 795 58 11,042
Sept., 1919.. 994 15 „ „ 795 199 11,241
Mar., 1920.. 863 15 „ „ 806 57 11,298
Sept., 1920. . 892 15 ~ „ 806 86 11,384
This little Launceston co. is now a million-
aire : anyway, its trusts passed the million
mark early' this year. Profits are not quite
so good as they were just prior to the war,
but the business is more difficult than it
used to be: h.c.l. has necessitated higher
salaries, and taxes and other charges are
heavier. On the other hand, so, of course,
are the interest and other earnings of trust
estates, and hence also this co.’s commissions.
Shareholders are therefore doing very well:
in five years an amount equal to practically
three-fourths of paid capital has “been dis-
tributed. The 15 p.c. distributions would,
nevertheless, not be possible but for the sub-
stantial reserves accumulated in the past.
Reserves exceed paid capital, and on share-
holders’ funds in the business the div. is
equal to a return of no more than 7 p.c.
Some day the directors might consider the
advisability of re-arranging shareholders’
interests so that their dividend rate won’t
look excessive, as it does now because of
shareholders’ past self-denial. To clients it
matters not whether the protection afforded
their interests is in the form of capital or
reserves. After the latest div. distribution
there were funds of £21,384, with a further
£40,000 callable. Readily available funds
comprised £11,863 in public securities and
cash, freehold premises had a book value of
£3OOO, £6565 was on mortgage and the
balance in odds and ends.
* * * *
The Tasmanian Wool-growers’ Agency
Co. (Launceston) :
Dividends and Written To-Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
1908.. £2187 25 p.c. = £2231 £BOO —£10,355
1909.. 2990 25 „ „ 2231 767 10,347
1910.. 3526 25 „ „ 2258 1200 £6B 10,415
1911.. 3240 25 „ „ 2231 1000 9 10,424
1912.. 2855 25 „ „ 2231 500 124 10,548
1913.. 2832 25 ~ „ 2231 500 101 10,649
1914.. £559 25 „ „ 2231 500 10,477
1915.. 2752 20 „ „ 1785 967 11,444
1916.. 3154 25 „ „ 2231 500 423 11,867
1917.. 3587 25 „ „ 2231 1356 13.223
1918.. 3616 25 „ „ 2231. 1385 14,608
1919.. 3806 25 „ ~ 2252 1554 16,162
1920.. 3914 25 „ „ 2252 1662 17,824
For 20 years this old Launceston wool-
agency co. has paid 25 p.c. dividends, but on
funds now in the business the return is not
what it looks. Reserves of more than
double the paid capital of £B5OO have
accumulated, so the 25 p.c. is really equal
to about 8 p.c. on funds. The co. is chiefly
an agency, concern, for though £60,493 was
° wiug to it: at Se pt- 30, this amount wms
Piobably mostly due on account of sales
through the wool pool; on the other side
£50,899 was owing by the co., while the
management was also working on an over-
draft of £11,225. Owing to better prices
commission earnings haye expanded con-
siderably during the past five years; but the
business has also been much more expen-
sive to handle: —
1915. 1918 1919 1920
Commissions .. £10,610 £15,278 £15,719 £10,701
Expenses .. 7,719 11,661 11,912 12,786
Over that period the margin of profit has
gradually improved until for the past year
the amount available for shareholders repre-
sented 46 P; c - ° n P aid capital. Besides the
assets mentioned above the co. has premises,
perty and y plant with a book value of
£53,520 and £12,424 in stocks (no doubt
mostly station sup pii es ).
" £
London Financial Times has been cast-
ing a brick at the Roebourne Copper Mines,
alias Whim Well (W.A.). The property,
it declares, has never had a fair chance
under the present co., for the vendors took
no less than £113,500 in shares and cash,
with the result that only about £6500 was
left for working capital. The inevitable
result was that the co. was soon left almost
penniless: at June 30, 1019, the date of the
latest balance-sheet, it had only £lB to its
credit and owed over £3OOO. At the last
shareholders’ meeting, in June, 1918, the
chairman asserted that an important Afri-
can gold interest had been acquired, but no
trace of this can be found in the present
accounts. Instead, shareholders are told
that “a valuable interest” in a Westralian
silver-lead lease has been purchased, but
nothing is said about its cost or what other
people think it is worth,
* * * *
The new silver-lead show at Rocklands,
near Warwick (Q.), has not turned out
well, and the local syndicate which is sink-
ing by contract thinks of turning it in. A
fair amount of trenching has been done on
the surface, and this revealed some slate
carrying a sprinkling of galena. On one
portion of this a shaft has been sunk 70ft.,
showing slate and quartzite carrying small
pockets of galena, with blende comma; in
the bottom. Some assays obtained gave 350 z.
silver and over 50 p.c. lead, but this was
evidently picked stuff; the material exposed
in the shaft would probably,not average more
than two or three p.c. lead. The country is
mostly hard quartzite, and the workings do
not disclose any defined lode.
* * * *
Chillagoe (Q.) appears to be just about
making ends meet. Resumption of smelting
and ore buying has put life into many an
outlying camp, and even places where heavy
packing charges and freights are serious
items are livening up again.


■
r
1
liMffl®
lip 111* 111 Ijilll lllifl IPi 1 |j illti 1 1 I
liliMiliiliK
liSlllllllilfi i f p i f 1 i i iftflii i illy 11 I! Plli i 11
ill S! 1 Up llliSilPt 111 I Uiin t * rf IlMm I n
;®llll!llwflli#!p tMPffli'nil? I? S Iffsp •? ttfillfwf illll IP !if 11PJI11! i
m Mill ill I! liisf IlIMi! iiH 1 |syi ! i
m
111
ill
■ . *
■ ■ ■ .
f jOf .
>■ < *lL_ S IL* ' ■ ■ i-
* JL JR*
llii
w
IllillSilSllSllllilliiifii
mmmmv citBIW-f > IIII»fftfffilliHI!f!l>!PI(*1
Sf lit f t fill l II I'M If f h IIS! 111 if til li ill il If 111 I iifflli Rh :
Pill PI
iPRAMMi
i ' > s
IPI r- '
.
■
SM
I
iili
mi
1
1
li
m
■
§
ii
i
?<4IS
m
IXL i
i*3W
, uiv' > j*iifek - 7' Jo,
W 1& W ■<
.SiOiy
sajx^
&
HP
1
mil v ; 'v
usmmmmm
JT l
Economy
are the two outstanding features
of Republic Trucks, and for these
reasons they are employed in
every class of business.
They are just as suitable for carry-
ing heavy loads over rough
country roads, where strength
is the main consideration, as they
are for shifting light loads on best
city pavements.
Republic Trucks are
Used all over Australia
and New Zealand.
Wherever they have been installed they are
giving improved and cheaper delivery service.
Accurate information compiled by experts on
actual performance, cost of upkeep and running
per ton mile supplied on application. Write
to-day. There is no obligation.
NEW SOUTH WALES AGENTS:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
237-9 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENTS:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
High Street, PRESTON, VICTORIA.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS :
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency
(Q.), Ltd.,
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
NEW ZEALAND AGENTS :
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND.
W. A. Crowle, Ltd.,
Distributors,
161-163 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Built by (be Largest Manu/actiurers o/Afo/orTrucks in /be World
The Internal Gear Drive
used in all Republic Trucks,
delivers 92 % of the motor
power to the wheels. We
know of no other type of
drive that delivers as much.
The entire load is carried
on a separate I-beam axle.
The driving mechanism has
nothing to do but drive
the truck.
I LOTI


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 CORBINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGRE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
TARIFF:
15/- per Day
i*[ S.
10/- per u ay
8/6 Bed & Breakfast
C.R.Kerr* <*sSwanston
Proprietor- Melbourne i
Hotel
King George IV
fAlllvp JR-WHISKY
4fr
the TOP NOTCH’scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Don Mac.”: I don’t know where
McNorth (B. 21/10/’2O) got his information about
the skill of the Papuans of the Gulf with the bow
and arrow, but in three years spent along the coast-
line, from Moresby to Merauke, I have never seen
any of it. In almost any village children may be
seen playing games in which mock battles with toy
bows and arrows occur, but there is no regular
training. And the adults never compete in the use
of these weapons, and are wretched shots. Dr. Wol-
laston spent some 15 months amongst thousands of
the natives, visiting dozens of tribes, and he says
they are even worse than that. He saw two Papuans
trying to kill a gohanna, in a tree, not more than
20ft. from the ground'; they shot arrow after arrow
at it, but the creature, which was as long and
almost as thick as a man’s arm, climbed slowly up
from branch to branch until it was lost to view. I
know a Digger who was chased by about 300 natives
with arrows and spears. He jumped into the water
and swam to a cutter lying a hundred yards offshore,
and although he was a fair target for some minutes
he got aboard without a scratch. I saw a whole
tribe rush out and fire every arrow in the outfit at
a cassowary, and the chicken got clean away. As
a marksman the Pap is a dud.
* * * *
“Georgina B.” : I don’t agree with “Dido”
when he says (B. 21/10/’2O) that red bullocks give
more trouble than those of other colors. I have
pursued the wily ox from Anthony’s Lagoon (N.T.)
to Charleville and back again, with plenty of halts
in between, and my experience is that white cattle
give most trouble. Whether on a drafting camp, in
a yard, or on the road, some white bullock or cow
has generally distinguished itself. The question has
interested me for years, and an incident that happened
up on the Georgina (Q.) before the war convinced
me. A big, white, long-horned bullock, after being
cut out three times, got back to the mob, and finally
a chap on a real good camp-horse put it out on the
face of the camp ; then when it broke back he raced
it round the mob, shouldering off, but it was an
even go. On the third lap a white poddy strayed
out in front of the camp-horse. I believe the horse
turned a somersault and broke his neck. The rider,
looping the loop in the most approved fashion, rose
to a height of 15ft. and made a forced landing on the
top of his head. Anyhow, that’s what they told me
when I came out of hospital.
* * * *
“Sawfly” ; No one seems to have classified
Australian insect pests according to their place of
origin. The question was worked out in Maori-
land last year with the following results: Euro-
pean, 66 per cent.; M.L., 20 per cent.; Australian,
9 per cent.; North American, 2 per cent.; South
African, 1 per cent. ; Pacific Islands, 1 per cent.
The proportion of exotic importations amongst the
Australian nuisances is probably quite as high.
* * * *
‘Ragar”: The b@che-de-mer and trochus
boats working along the Barrier reef are constantly
coming across such trifles as old
iron winches, anchors, chain and
other hardware, with now and
then an ancient cannon. These
relics are always more or less
buried in the slofvly-growing
coral. It makes one wonder what
lies hidden in the heart of those
coral tombs. The islanders can
sometimes be persuaded to tell of
old-time wrecks, but details are
hard to come at, as the old men
are a bit shy of speaking of their
past sins in connection with
wrecked mariners. The old men
are “church-members” now, dress
in white men’s clothing, croak
hymns in response to the urgings
of Mr. Missionary, and sit through
his pidgin-English sermons with
deep attention if mighty little
understanding. The young men
know nothing of the old ways
except by hearsay, but it is they
who find long copper bolts and
the heavy ingots which when sold
in Thirsty buy them much in the
way of tobacco and Chow-made
rum. After the sale of some cop-
per bars recently, an entire crew
went on a royal bender, bought
up gaudy shirts and other togs
from the obliging Chinaman store-
keeper, and ended up in a body at the open-air
pictures in the evening. There’s no doubt about the
advance of civilisation among black brudder these
days.
“T.P.”: Thirty years ago stay-at-home
naturalists solemnly decided that no snake could
possibly swallow another, and gave luminous reasons
for their decision. At that time I was a country
correspondent for the Ballarat Star, so that, when
a buslunan appeared with a five-foot snake which
had been fatally interrupted when it had swallowed
three-quarters of a four-foot ditto, I took careful
measurements, buried the snakes, which were already
smellful, and sent in a soul-stirring par. giving
beans to the - stay-at-homes. The Star cross-headed
and published it with a scornful footnote; where-
upon I unearthed and bagged those' reptiles, which,
though dumb, had learned to speak trumpet-tongued,
and went off per rail-van for the Star office with
the guard hanging out of one widow and “Our
Correspondent” struggling for breath from the other.
Since then there have been 20 discussions as to
snake-swallowing. But I know. So do those editors.
* * * *
“Dooker-On”: If snakes bite themselves
and die when cornered, how account for this? I
lost mine, a venomous brute, in a stack of saplings,
and in trying to drive him out took hold of one of
the bottom sticks and shook the stack down. Not
seeing anything of his nibs I gave up. The fol-
lowing afternoon while passing the spot I discovered
him firmly caught in his middle between two sap-
lings. He hadn’t stung himself and died, but a few
million or so of big black ants were making him
the most wretched snake in Australia, and if a snake
ever wanted to pass out I’m sure he must have.
PRO RATA.
DIGGER (on dry ship, to sporting padre): “Heigh, Padre, any idea -where a man can
get a booze?”
PADRE: “ Not a drop in the ship, hoy—except two bottles of Communion wine in my
cabin.”
DIGGER: "Blimey, Padre, trot it out. I got 10 years' Communions to catch up!”
“Caley”: Not the least interesting per-
sonality at a party I was at recently was Augustus.
He occupied a blue vase on the mantelpiece and took
a keen interest in the proceedings, especially in the
games that featured kissing. He has occupied the
blue vase for the past 14 years, and considers himself
one of the family. One of the girls told me he
keeps bad hours during damp weather, and when
remonstrated with for making a noisy entry spits at
the remonstrator. It is quite disconcerting to pick
up the blue vase, and see his green head pop out in-
quiringly. The expression of inquiry is probably
accentuated by the fact that the vase neck is a tight
fit; for Augustus grows tubby in old age. I for-
got to mention that Augustus is a green frog.
* * * *
“Deep Sinkin’ ”: The waxbill of Central
Australia falls under the baneful influence of civilisa-
tion faster than any other bird I know of. No
sooner had we pitched camp here on the Stuart
Ranges opalfield than a pair began building in my
spare boots. Their next abode was in a home-
made candlestick. Then a couple built a precarious
home in the curled-up end of a dingo-skin we had
hung up to air. We then erected a bag and brush
shed, and a round dozen families got homes at a
cheap rental almost immediately. We can reach
every nest without stretching. But the cheekiest
of all was-the pair that built one day in an open,
empty billy left hanging over the fireplace. They
were firmly established by 5 p.m. We shifted the
billy to a tree, and it soon became the average
home, housing pa, ma and three kids.
* * * *
“Moorandani”: It was mentioned lately
in The Bulletin that the John Forrest, the North-
ern Territory Administration’s boat, was being re-
sheathed with copper, the teredoes haying made a
counter-lunch of the cypress-pine sheathing. Yes,
but it was Queensland-cypress, which will not resist
either the Territory’s teredo or its white-ants.
But the local article gives splendid results. Some
of the sailing-vessels around here (Darwin)
are sheathed with it. One, the Maggie, a Sydney
tug at one time, brought up here to salvage the
s.s. Australian, was sheathed with N.T. cypress
about five years ago, and the stuff is as good to-day
as when it was put on. Another good teredo-proof
timber is billion, grown in Borneo. This was
used for fenders on Darwin jetty, built in 1902,
and, when it was widened in 1917, these timbers
were raised, trimmed up and replaced with hardly
a teredo mark on them.
* * * *
“Audio”: Bones, policeman at Borringba,
was the most popular man in the district, and any
night he struck Dungaree was sure to be a wet one.
Jones represented the constabulary at Dungaree;
and, though he, too, was partial to beer, his thirst
had a limit. One night when Bones visited Dun-
garee Jones was at the bar, and as the hour of 11
approached Jones began nervously fingering his watch.
Bones noticed him and read his thoughts. “Jones,”
he said, “I’m glad you’re my junior officer, but
I’m sorry you’re drunk. It’s my painful duty to
arrest you.” With the help of a couple of the
boys he carried the protesting Jones into the stable
and locked him up for the night. “School” didn’t
break up till 4 o’clock in the morning.
T.V.T.”: Want a bush broom? Then
get a jam tin; next a stick of suitable length and
thickness for a handle, having a short fork at one
end ; finally a piece of strong cord, and some rushes
(bush-millet, silver tussock, or bayonet grass will
serve). Cut the bottom out of the jam tin, loop
the cord over such quantity of the rushes, doubled
over the cord, as you can pull through the tin.
Draw the stuff well through. Next, place it on a
log, and with your axe or your mate’s razor cut the
rushes off level to the required length, then with the
back of the axe flatten out the end of the tin
farthest from the handle; this will give it correct
shape. Next, insert the handle by pressing the
prongs of the fork together, so that they will
just fit into the tin. This makes the handle secure,
and you can start sweeping out the humpy forthwith.
* * * *
“Barcoo”: The other day, in the Barcoo,
I caught a yellow-belly (golden perch) which pulled
down the beam at 9lib. This , is one of the finest
of fresh-water fish in inland ’Stralia, and it thrives
particularly well in Bananaland west of the main
range. The Far-Western rivers—Barcoo, Thompson,
Diamantina, Georgina and the farthest west of
THE BOBBERY.
THE MAD CUSTOMER: “Here, there's no big
city robbery in this! Why, it’s yester-
day's paper!"
THE COOL MEWSBOY: “Well, you gimme a
penny-ha'penny for it, didn't, you?"
all, the Mulligan—teem with them, and after a.
particularly wet season, when those rivers run for
months, schools of them can be seen making towards
the head waters. In the huge waterholes periodical
epidemics strike the fish and they die in countless
numbers.
(Continued on page 26.)■
BOUNDARY RIDIN’
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My own comp’ny ain’t excitin’, an’ there’s tons
of time for writin’,
When the furnace fires of day is banked, an’ night
lights up her lamp ;
So I’ll tell yer what I’m thinkin’ while the silent
stars is winkin’
At the boundary-rider restin’ in hjs lonely evenin’
camp.
I’m not beggin’ for no pity from the readers in the
city—
Lots of them is just as lonesome though they’re
packed like sheep in sheds.
But when men has conversations with themselves,
then their relations
Takes a tumble that there’s something goin’ cronk
inside their heads.
I have heard of men aspirin’ to a higher life retirin’
Into stuffy caves an’ cloisters just to give their
souls a spell
From the fight against temptations. If they’d tackled
, jobs on stations
They’d have found “the fence” a safer cop than
any musty cell.
This plaee sees no sinful revel of the World, or Flesh,
or Devil —
Music-’alls an’ flash ’otels is where you’ll find their
brimstone brand ;
They don’t like dead sheep an’ damper for their
daily picnic hamper,
So they never leaves no cards around this blighted
Holy Land.
If they did call in for dinner I believe they’d strike
a winner
(Three to one is heavy odds, an’ worse when one
of ’em’s a skirt) ;
For though through the day I’m keepin’ all the rules,
yet when I’m sleepin’
That same scroucher push holds all the cards that’s
played beneath my shirt.
THE HOPELESS PROSPECT.
“ Struth, the bottle's broke, if he had one
with ’im.”
Thenmy spirit jumps its traces, makin’ straight for
( pubs an’ races,
Burstin’ cheques an’ backin’ horses, shoutin’
drinks an’ mashin’ gins—
Cripes, it’s Cup weeks, certs, an’ spendin’ till there
comes a sudden endin’,
When I rush to raise a divvy, fouls the fence, an’
barks my shins.
There’s the boundary extendin’, like the serpent’s
trail unendin’,
Through a sinless, Eveless Eden, as when first the
world began;
An’ I knows how Adam hated this old joint till he
got mated,
For, although the mob has grown, the breed re-
mains the same in man.
SODTH AUSTRALIA.
STRIPPER.


, SfAs®.*/
■
m
Hi
spillil
NOW JUST A MINUTE!
FOR SOME TIME PAST YOU HAVE BEEN PROMISING YOUR CAR
A COMPLETE dtewm EQUIPMENT!
It is more than possible that your car is already equipped with one or more of the famous Stewart
Necessities. Why not complete the service?
dtewanb Warning Signals
—both hand-operated and motor-driven —brought forth many imitators, but stand out to-day as the
most substantial, efficient and serviceable Warning Signals on the market.
The StmaJib Patented Magnetic Speedometer
is the universal choice of more than 95 per cent, of motorists throughout the world. It tells
glance how fast you are driving, just how far you have gone, keeps an unfailing c ec on your
consumption, tyre service, etc. This is the one accurate, serviceable and satisfactory pee ome er.
The dtewaftb Patented Vacuum Benzine Feed
gives real motoring pleasure. It is devoid of all feed trouble. It ensures a positive, automatic, even
flow of benzine to the carburetter in all weathers and on all grades. This claim is justihe y 1 s umversa
adoption as standard equipment by motor-car manufacturers.
Sooner or later every motor-car owner equips a
StewaJib Searchlight.
It is not an ordinary Spotlight, but a genuine Searchlight in every sense of the word. .Makes o*ght
driving safe and enjoyable. Projects a powerful, intense beam of light for 1 000 ft. m any desire irec i .
Handsome in design, durable in construction and finish.
If your car has not any of the above Stewart Necessities, it will pay you to have the discrepancy recti e
at once. See your motor-accessory dealer to-day, and let him complete the equipment.
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney; Berry & Roche Pty., Ltd., Swanston Street, Melbourne;
.. .. „7*i c*. l o„:»i Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pine Street, Adelaide,
Martin Wilson Bros., 299 Adelaide Street, Brisbane;
A. Christian, 806 Hay Street, Perth.
m
Mm
ie=l
PUT
BRIGHTNESS in Your Home.
i
m
1
mm
i
WE have just opened our Christmas shipment
of Player Pianos, and we present an array
of beautiful models of various makes that
will make a hundred happy homes this Christmas.
We illustrate the exceedingly popular
Player Piano—the
PLAYOTONE
Made by the world-renowned Autotone Co., whose
instruments are being used by Caruso, Tetrazzini and
scores of leading artists.
At your first opportunity, call at our
showrooms and try them over, or write
for catalogue and price list with every
instrument described in detail and full
particulars of our easy terms.
The “PLAYOTONE”
is a real pleasure
bringer.
M
syDftzy.
Ano AT
TOOWOOMBA UXMOR,t.
- ROCKHfIMPTO/'t.^gS
£
BK
We will take your piano in
exchange and allow you its
full value.


SLEEP SOUND AS A TIRED CHILD 1
Avoid insomnia, ensure restful invigorating sleep by taking an occasional
dose of CLEMENTS TONIC. This thirty-year-old Australian medicine is
particularly prescribed in cases of nervous debility, ansemia, impaired
appetite, and similar ailments. Ask for CLEMENTS TONIC and
Take CLEMENTS TONIC for Your Health’s Sake
“Cos”: Tell “D.R.P.” (B. 21/10/’2O) to
cease wondering if the wagtails, during their first
flight in the well where they are to be hatched, will
flutter directly upwards. The odds are 5 to 1 they
won’t. Last year a pair of wagtails decided to take
up their abode in my underground tank. In the
course of time a pair of youngsters arrived. Like
“D.R.P.” I was curious, and used to have a peep at
them every day, until I found an empty nest and
two little waggies floating in the water below, dead.
The foolish couple returned to their old home again
this year. This time the brood numbered three.
Once again two little waggies found a watery grave;
the remaining one evidently reached the top in
safety. I’m going to do future generations of wag-
tails a good turn and pull out the nest before next
season arrives.
* * * *
“R.E.8.”: Am I having my leg pulled
when asked to believe that ants won’t crawl up into
carts? My old mutton-hawker from West o’ Sunset
assures me that he is never troubled; and another
traveller who dosses in his tilted waggon says he’s
never been pursued by the pests even in bad ant
country.
* * * *
“Wang”: I received an invitation to a
wedding the other day, and somehow it served
to remind me of one that was sent to my boss, a
cow-cocky, when I was a helpless nipper. I saw
it lying on the kitchen table half an hour after
it arrived. It read: —
Mr. and Mrs. Haystacks present their compliments,
and would be glad to see you at the wedding of
their daughter to Mr. John Spudonions. As there
will be dancing all night, bring your boy with you
[that was me]. He can look after your horse and
trao and help our boy milk our cows in the morning.
And we’ll send our boy over to help your boy
milk yours, when ours is done, as you will be very
tired.
It was a great turnout, a success in every way. I
beat Haystack’s boy easily, I remember —I milked
16 cows while he was doing 12.
* * * - *
“Woolly”: Abos. at various times have
stated that wool will fall off sheep after 12 months.
What would they say if they were told that there
were lately two sheep in Goulburn with six years’
wool on them? Two lambs, a merino and a cross-
bred, both wethers, escaped into the Shoalhaven
gullies six years ago, and it was impossible to cap-
ture them until recently owing to the country being
so rough. They had the bad luck to be caught a
few weeks ago. The wool they carry is without a
break and 2ft. long; and there is not a sign of a
sheep-louse or tick in it. That the wool remained
on them is attributed to their having plenty of
good, sound feed and water, with the cool gullies
to spend their time in. And lest anyone should
exclaim “Cock-and-bull yarn! ” I send with this par.
a sample of the wool and two snapshot photos of
the sheep.
*■ * * *
“J.G.”: “Murray Yale” (B. 28/10/’2O) is
quite right when he says that there is no necessity
to have smoke-fires going all night to protect orchard
or other tender crops from frost damage. Near
me there is a spud farmer who is situated in a low
valley, an ideal place for heavy frosts. Yet,
though he gets lower temperatures than anyone
else in the district, he-has never lost a bag of tubers
through frost, neither does he stop up all night mak-
ing smudges. All he does is to have a row of heaps
of half-dry and half-green gum-boughs piled on the
south side of his potato-plots. When he feels a
A LONG WAY TO GO YET.
GLOOM : “Stay, brother! Do you, think that
glass of vile filth will quench your
thirst?”
THE OPTIMIST: “Blimey, I ’ope not!”
frost in the night he hops out about daylight, sets
fire to his heaps of boughs and keeps them smoking
for a couple of hours or so. Then he goes in to
breakfast. He has any amount of gum-branches
growing handy. Heaps .of grass that is partly dry
are good for making a dense and lasting smudge.
So is damped cocky chaff.
“Te Pana”: Papeete is the Broome of the
South Seas. In the hurricane season hundreds of
pearling cutters tie up to the trees along the water-
front, while the native skippers parade the town
drinking absinthe and seeking the female of the
species. None of these birds know anything of
compass or quadrant, and navigate their craft entirely
by dead reckoning. They thus often take weeks to
travel a few hundred miles. The boats are tiny
SIMPLE ARITHMETIC.
CITY BOOKIE: “Here y'are! I'll lay 100 to 1 Fair cow."
COUNTRY SPORTS : “I'll take that.” “So will I.”
BOOKIE (sizing up his men): “All right. I don't mind letting you divide it between
you. That’ll be 50 to 1 each.”
things. If a man is an outsize there is no room
for him between the rail and the poop-deck over
the hold; but their storage capacity is enormous.
I’ve seen aboard, besides copra, pearl-shell and half
a dozen turtles, a horse, five men and an equal
number of Helenes belongin’ other fellow; and
then the rigging was full of bread-fruit and bananas.
“Looker-on” : Ever heard of a cat- being
struck by lightning? 1 haven’t. • Recently I saw
a house struck, and the only thing left in one piece
about the place was an old black cat. He certainly
looked as if he’d been having too much jazz; but,
at any rate, he was whole.
* * ♦ »
“Werrimee”: Cannihalism has been prac-
tised in recent times and in more civilised parts' than
the Far Nor’-West. One particu-
larly gruesome case occurred at Ing-
ham (Q.) about 18 years ago. An
aborigine named Frank came from
Seymour River, and remained over-
night at the Ingham camp. Next
morning two local blacks, Dick and
Willy, accompanied him, like good
fellows, to Oardwell-road, and when
near a waterhole Willy finished the
visitor with a tomahawk. The assas-
sin then cut pieces of flesh off the
back and shoulder, and hid the body
in a hole. The meat was eaten at
the camp. A night or two after-
wards, with another aborigine named
Waggagundah, they returned for a
bit more of Frank, which was also
eaten at the camp. The body was
then thrown into the waterhole,
where it was subsequently found by
the police. There was no necessity
•for these blacks, who had long been
associated with white people, to eat
their brother blackfellow, as they had
plenty of other food ; and I don’t know that they had
any grudge against the victim or his tribe. Pre-
sumably it was just the craving of palates that had
tasted long pig.
* * * *
“Sir Spen” : The cattle-throwing champion-
ship of Australia, which was decided at Moree
(N.S.W.) recently, went to a darkie named John
Bond, of Tagaburne (Q.), whose aggregate time for
three throws was 3min. Bjsec. Competitors had to
cut a bullock out from a mob, throw him from horse-
back by a tail twist executed while going full tilt,
dismount, and hog-tie the beast’s hind legs. The best
single time was made by R. F. Munro, of Weebolla
station, near Moree —36 seconds. But Roly was
outed on averages.
“Silas Snell” : Few people would look to
a pig to make logical deductions from concrete facts,
and to follow her conclusions with an act of applied
science. But —well, here’s the story. There were
five of us living in a big bark hut on the Parkers’
lease, five miles from Cassilis (Vic.), and we found
articles from the commissariat going missing.
Barnes said it was “them infernal dingo dogs,” and
set a springer. Coming up from the mine that
evening we found that the springer had shot off
all right, and that a small he-pig was 'kicking in
the leash. We had sucking-pig for dinner on the
Sunday, and the springer was tied down again.
Once more we landed a little pig, and again we had
sucker for dinner. Wilde hurt himself next morn-
ing, and had to go off work. He employed himself
nursing his leg, but presently another source of
amusement offered. A large, loquacious sow, with
a litter of five that had recently been seven, arrived
at the hut-front and began a general reconnoitre.
Wilde noticed that the mother pig was carefully
edging her herd from the set springer; and presently
observed that she was rooting a small round log
towards the trap, pausing every now and again to
chase a sucker from the danger-zone. Presently
Mrs. Hog, with a final push, sent the log into
the trap. The springer worked, and caught the log
up into the air, and then Dame Pig abandoned
herself to the hunt for grub. We '“sprung” no
more little pigs at that camp.
“Spearpnmp” : Tell “L. and Tommy” (B.
28/10/’2O) to try somebody else’s leg. Fisher, of
Modbury, is well named. He got a good bite
when he spun Tommy that yarn. In the first place,
no bushman ever puts a saw-cut “straight through”
a tree. If he values his log, or his life, he first
puts in a belly-scarf or a sawcut in the lower side;
then he drops the tree with, a cut in the back.
Secondly, over at Modbury (S.A.) they did not put
a saw straight through that balanced tree; she’d
have settled back and pinched the saw if they’d
tried to do it. What? Wedges! But they had no
wedges at Modbury, or • they wouldn’t have strafed
the poor old gum with dynamite. Yet I’ll back a
set of wedges to topple any sft. tree off its little
old stump when it has been cut clean through.
“D.S.N.” : I was leaning on Croft’s fence.
Croft was grubbing a stump. We had worn out
the weather, when a small man with a potato-sack
swag arrived, leading a grey pony mare. “S’pose
you didn’t ’appen to lose a norse, boss?” said the
swagman. Croft gave up his task for a moment, and
abandoned himself to thought. “Was it a grey
mare?” said he. “More or less a grey mare,”
admitted swaggie. “Did she have a . black star in
her forehead and a longish tail?” There was the
mare with the black star and the longish tail; but
Croft continued to enumerate her points. “Oh,
that s all right,” said he. “You better leave her.
Jist hitch her to the post, will you ?” Swaggie
hitched her up. “I give her a feed of hay,” he
said. “Pinched it from a stack.” “That’s right,”
said Croft. “I give her a drink,” said swaggie.
His tone was insinuating. By this time Croft had
gone back to his stump. “I took perticlder good
care of her,” called the swaggie. “That’s all right,”
Croft replied. Swaggie lingered a moment in a
state of forlorn hope, throwing out a few words
descriptive of the great devotion he had shown the
lost horse. Croft passed them over lightly, and
presently swaggie said: “Well, so long. S’pose I’d
better be goin’.” “So long,” said Croft, and sadly
the Australian walking-man went his way. “You
might have given him a small reward,” I suggested.
Me? said Croft. “Whaffor?” “For returning
your horse.” “But it ain’t my horse. Think I’d
be so dirt-mean as not to pay the pore bloke if it
was my horse?” “Then why did you take it?”
I done that for Power. It’s Power’s horse. He’s
a neighbor of mine.” “Well, why didn’t you let him
restore it to Power?” “You must think I’m a
darned fool,” retorted Croft. '“Why, man, there’s
a reward of 50 bob! ” There are more Crofts than
one in the Backbloeks.
* * * *
“Ewa” : Most people would turn up their
nose at shark, but I’ll bet a peanut to a pound that
if Binghi does the cooking, and the diner does not
know what kind of fish he is eating, the verdict will
be Fill em up again.” Binghi of North Queensland
buries the shark in sand and then lights a fire
overhead. The flesh when thus cooked is snow-white
and as good as barramundi.
* * *
‘ T.A.R.”: Tell “Mypharry,” who wants to
use his own tobacco, to hang the green leaves until
dry. I hen press them together to sweat. Next paint
them with treacle, and twist into a rope to season.
If anyone wants a pipeful, give it to him. He will
not ask again. 1 made a stick 40 years ago and have
half of it yet.
* * *
“Coolyah”: On one occasion Bobby, a
Western goldfields jigger, accidentally fired a powder-
flask, singeing one side of his beard. For a long
time afterwards people as they passed him would
yell out, “What about the powder-flask, Bobby?”
getting Bobby into a passion every time. Unable to
stand it any longer, he sued one man. When he
appeared in the witness-box the magistrate broke
Bobby up by remarking, “W.ell, what about it,
Bobby?” “You plurry well as bad the rest of ’em!”’
yelled Bobby; and the further language was unprint-
able.
* * * *
“Nanto”: Referring to the 45-year-old
horse in Queensland I have before me a print with
the following:—
Those in search of a veritable equine Methuselah
111 ’'l 1 . him in 01d Bhl. the property of the late
Mr. S. Francis Petrie, of Edinburgh. Of this animal
a painting was made when he was 56 years old.
He lived for another four years, being then shot on the
death of his master. Old Bill was worked gently
up to the last. It is reputed of him that his
temper was at no time amiable. These statements
are certified by an eminent vet. surgeon, whose
father had attended Old Bill for nearly half a cen-
tury.
* * * *
“Lofty” : Next time some of you bushmen
from off the Blocks lose your bearings in the Domain
and have to do a perish on a dry gully for the
night, try this. Break a few good armfuls of bush-
feathers off the nearest green tree and lay them on
the ground. Strip,' roll into the leaves, and pull
your togs over the top. You’ll wake up in the morn-
ing fit for another 10-mile dry stage.
“Baba” : The Christmas pantomime is not
a white-man monopoly. At many large villages in
Western. Papua, big festivals are held yearly during
our Christmas season. The principal feature is the
dancing, which is mimetic of actions of the turtle,
the dugong, the cassowary, the shark, the alligator,
etc., and those taking part are either dressed to
imitate the particular animal or bird represented, or
carry a carved wooden image of it. Each dance is
accompanied by a suitable song composed for the
purpose. The dramatis personae are usually young
men and girls, who undergo many months’ training
for the event. The . “properties” are made by the
old men and women, and are kept stored in a special
house. For the coming Christmas festival the men
of one village are practising a flying-machine dance.
They have, made Some wooden models of biplanes,
which are imitations of the real thing, and have com-
posed a song. Each machine has a tin matchbox which
contains some small pebbles to rattle in rhythm with
the dance. Considering that none of these natives has
READ IT IN HIS FACE.
“See yer missus is well again, Bill!”
seen an aeroplane, and could only have got the idea of
one from a stray picture or from talk, their concep-
tion of the machine is remarkable, while their
aptness in adopting it for a dance is still more
so. Australian people, I feel sure, would give a good
deal to witness the Papuan’s version of “Going Up.”


m
TTE
S
c
>
'•
>•
NUMBER
LARGE SIZE
b"
!f
NO ADVANCE IN PRICE <
Under New Tariff, r [
ITttvvim-; ri'l \y
o
Ab
s O/.
'V
o S'.
o_<s>
f
T
RP
A
O
D
A
anufdcturefl sr
L
fe.
•>
fflft mitt
S%ec£ '&ut£e£~


CROUP
W.-,/
' *// V
\st//'■//
&
f / • 1 # • , » \ ' '
ii<ii!i<iiliiiiiitlinniHlilniHil)iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiffrrmT7iiiiinniiiiiiiiin»tninii'nimininiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiirmwimiiin)iiiiii
ip
SH S
*!»
1
I
EVERY Drop of \\
“Heame’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street, SYDNEY.
A Plain
Pact!
Henry James, 1843-1916
If the phrase were not as cheap and mis-
leading as most phrases one would be tempted
to speak of Henry James as a gentleman of
letters; certainly no other writer in English
expresses so deftly such fine shades of
gracious thought. Only a gentleman could
make the gallery of quiet, decent aristocrats
in “The American.” His “Portrait of a Lady"
is a portrait of a lady, one of the rarest
things in letters. In his unfinished auto-
biographies only a gentleman could take such
liberties with the real people in his child-
hood’s household of ladies and gentlemen, as
only that serene type of household could
stand the taking of the liberties.
He was born in New York in 1848, his
elder brother becoming the illustrious
William James, the psychologist. In youth his
health was poor, which gave him the habit of
sustained thought, the restlessness of the
household giving him in turn the food for the
thought. When he was 12 his family left
America and went wandering in Europe for
some years. The Civil War brought them
back to their base ; Henry’s brothers fought,
but he was refused for active service. At
Harvard he studied law from 1562 on, turn-
ing gradually and surely to letters as his real
work. W. D. Howells, the then associate-
editor of the Atlantic Monthly, was Ms
close and helpful friend ; in 1865 the maga-
zine published “The Story of a Year,” the
first of Henry James’s to be published. From
then to the end of the last of his 31 “col-
lected” volumes he was a spectator of the
social .scene —a silent spectator whose sole
contribution was the notes he took of the
festivities.
He was back in Europe in 1869, and de-
finitely made'it his home in 1875. He spent a
year in Paris, a shy and deferential listener to
the “shop” of Flaubert and De Goncourt, De
Maupassant, Zola, Baudot, Coppee, etc.
Thence he went to London as his permanent
resting-place, dining out in the season of
1878-79 more than a hundred times, watch-
ing and listening. With a few hurried,
necessary visits to America the remainder of
his life was lived in Europe, his home being-
in England. He became a British subject in
1915 (really as a protest against America’s
dilatoriness in joining the Allies), and he
died in Chelsea on February 28, 1916.
When I read “What Maisie Knew” for the
first time it was my unexpressed opinion that
she knew nothing, that I knew nothing (a sad
blow to me at that time), and that the
author of “A Portrait of a Lady” and “The
American” had so crowded his mind as to
give the impression that he most of all knew
nothing. The verbose sentences skirte’d round
their intention so delicately, and were hope-
lessly lost in self-coiled entanglements. Here
and there a luminous phrase leaped out of
the mist and beckoned me on to the far
place where something was stated. I plodded
on and finished, rewarded occasionally by the
wondrous grouping and phrasing, the flashes
of color, but that was all—l didn’t reach any
statement. Tlje book seemed to be hn ex-
ercise in atmospheric exactitude. But I
wasn’t interested in literary exercises then;
1 Avanted narration—if possible of the splen-
did “The American” sample—and I didn’t
get it. By persuasion I read the book again.
In the second chapter I caught the writer’s
angle; and thereafter to the end of James’s
examination of Maisie’s knowledge I had no
complaints. The book is a reverie in the fine
shades of thought, the half-formed impulses
and still-born motives which make up the
mental personality of most people in the
world. Nearly all of the middle and later
work of Henry James comes under the same
heading.
In the instructions given to each one of us
by the millions who have already trod the
hungry, happy road of letters, almost the
first command is “Get a story.” The middle
and later Henry James got no story—did not
even trouble to let one form itself as the
chapters grew. He took only the minds of
his people, tracing their thoughts back to the
first, and possibly abortive, impulse. He is
not concerned overmuch even to find the
impulse, so long as the seeking it on paper
is exact and true, and to his approval.
Through a series of infinitely small gradations
the seed of the thought is perhaps discovered ;
and that is, I think, the sum-total. Yet in
his day Henry James was a popular author
—of the highbrow type, of course, but.
popularity of any type is achieved only by the
power of interesting readers. No writer was
ever popular because it was the thing to read
and to seem to understand him, the idiotic
“Book Gossip” of the ladies’ weeklies not-
withstanding.
The early novels are magnificent; the
later books, on a scaffolding—-a story—of
nothing, are most interesting. The pleasant
and diffidently well-mannered young man
haunting the egregious dinner-tables of Lon-
don’s ’seventies learned his job well; but
when the job was learned his eyes and ears
became too sensitive to impressions too deli-
cate for the passer-by. In his earlier books
those impressions were subordinated to a
large romantic vision of life and humanity
as a -whole. By degrees the impressions
over-rode the vivid, distinguished view, the
weight and number of the details over-
whelming the mass. At first his people were
splendid aristocrats —of personality, not of
class thinking and acting in aristocratic
finesse, as convincing as the Milan cathedral,
and smoothly, strongly and delicately written
for the world; but afterwards the books
were only carefully and artistically written
for the student. No book should demand a
second reading for the reader’s eye-to-eye
vision with the author; no book of fiction
should require deep thought for its mere
comprehension. These are blemishes in
literary expression, and no amount of argu-
ment and talk of the great Henry James can
make them anything else. The wandering
household may have helped this too-fine de-
velopment of technique. His father was a
philosopher, and so was his elder brother;
there was probably a good deal of psychology
at meals and in correspondence. Intricate
psychology cannot be always a good thing for
fiction ; the mind of man is the most import-
ant thing in the world, but it isn’t the only
thing.
Boiled down, the span of the earlier Henry
James in literature will be longer than that
of the later. They will both last a long time
for the reason that they are quite unique in
letters. The verbose we have always with
us, and the thin thought which runs to
seed in interlocking words ; the self-conscious
artistic egoist we have always with us. All
these qualities were Henry James’s, with the
additional handicap of a cold contempt for
the dramatic story. Yet, above all of them,
he wrote at his worst amazingly interesting-
books. His characters’ minds are open for
the reader most luminously if he cares to
study the method of presentment. In this
and the last generation a good many people
cared to take that trouble, and were well
rewarded for their pains. I think the cause,
the quite legitimate cause, of their patience
was the established beauty of the first famous
Henry James novels. But the classics make
their own hard and fast establishments; no
doubt when the argument and the talk have
died down they will attend to it.
HILARY LOFTING.
Fairy Tales
Hilary Lofting’s remarks on Hans Chris-
tian Andersen (R.P. 28/10/’2O) take me
back to a camp-fire, the smell of frying
chops, damper, the tinkle of a bullock-bell
and a child with Grimm’s fairy-tales wait-
ing for an old teamster to read. I did not
know much of Hans Andersen till 20 years
afterwards, for, though there was an old,
brown, seldom-read copy of his tales in the
tucker-box of the waggon, Bill did not like
them, and neither did I. Perhaps they were
too - beautifully written; certainly to us and
the others round the camp-fire so far from
Copenhagen, Andersen failed to appeal. His
delicate, almost ethereal fairy-tales never
seemed quite genuine. You trapped a
moral here and there, and children, like
fairies, never moralise. Bill was nearly 50
and I was seven, but we started fairying
together, and Grimm was always favorite.
Bill talked only in monosyllables. Maybe
Andersen’s long stories were too much for
him. Anyway, so many of them were sad,
and life had been so hard with Bill he liked
the stories wherein everyone lived happily
ever afterwards. So did I—l had the long
years ahead.
But isn’t Hans Andersen a teller of fairy-
tales for adults rather than for children?
Aren’t many of his stories prose poems that
a dhild never quite grasps? In form and
beauty of expression Andersen supersedes
Perrault and the charming Mme de Beau-
mont ; but do any of his tales grip the
child-heart like the former’s “Sleeping
Beauty” and the latter’s “Beauty and the
Beast”? Nfeither were originated by the
authors, but the pieces they added to the
old, old versions make them theirs. I have
never found Hans Andersen very popular
with Australian children, though their
parents are ready, as we all are, to admit
his transcendency of genius as an artist over
the other fairy-tale writers.
Some of Andersen’s tales are original,
many are new versions of old stories. But
the Grimm Brothers originated nothing.
Theirs are the real fairy-tales, collected for
an historical purpose, and told by “someone
a long time ago.” That “someone” is the
best of all fairy-tale tellers. Everyone
knows “Cinderella,” but no one knows the
old Egyptian nurse who invented it to please
a princess so many thousand years ago.
Southey’s “The Three Bears” would be a
poor tale without “Golden Locks,” yet no
one remembers now who put “Golden Locks”
in the story in place of Southey’s wicked
old woman. We may have been primitive
round our _ camp-fire, but Bill’s droning old
voice slurring sleepily over unfamiliar words
comes back to me now, and I would rather
hear one of Grimm’s fairy-tales from his
toneless lips than all Hans Andersen from
any others.
ZORA CROSS.
A Satchel of Books
Fivccorners , by Dowel] O’Reilly. Thirteen
short stories showing great variety in sub-
ject and method of construction, but all good.
“Twilight,” reprinted from The Bulletin,
is a tender sketch of a deaf-and-dumb picnic;
“Black Peter’s Last Kiss” is a bit of vivid
tragedy of old Tasmanian days; “Bull-
dogs” is the whirling Bulletin romance of
a parson who* lost his trousers out of a
window^ in the train; “Thistledown” is a
convincing tale of illicit love and sudden
death. All through, the author handles his
detail with great skill. There is fine color;
the characters are drawn sharply and with
absolute truth; and there is never a word
too much. None of the tales are in them-
selves particularly attractive; their whole
force is in the telling. With a big story
to write, Dowell O’Reilly should make a
tremendous appeal. Incidentally, there is
a lot of observation and plenty of striking
philosophy of life scattered through the
pages; but these things are in their right
places, helping rather than hindering the
movement of the tales.
In the Clouds >ahove Baghdad, by J. E.
Tennant (Cecil Palmer, London). A racy
and informative account of the aerial opera-
tions in Mesopotamia; the writer was second
in command of the R.F.C. Towards the
end of the campaign his ’plane was shot
down in the desert, but after a brief cap-
tivity he and a campanion were rescued by
a British armored-car. The enemy’s air-
fighters, all Germans, behaved decently, and
were doughty opponents. Of his own young
men Colonel Tennant writes with enthusi-
asm. There was “ ‘Anzac,’ transferred to
us from the Remounts. His youth had been
spent astride of a horse in the backbloeks
of Queensland; the early days of the war
saw him a trooper in the Bombay Light
Horse. He would amuse us with yarns of
his charging troop on the sands at Colaba,
and how, when they had run away, he
wheeled them into the sea. A great-hearted
Australian”; and a fine man, one gathers,
with a machine-gun. And there was Frank
Nuttall, a Maorilander, whose daring “knew
no bounds,” and who was “ever a wizard
with his engines. We had gone over to
France together in the early days of 1914,
and after two years he joined me in Meso-
potamia, more cheerful and dauntless than
ever. Though shot about on countless occa-
sions, more than once stranded behind the
enemy’s lines and out on every raid or night-
flight, Nuttall’s star never failed him.” The
author gives high praise to Stanley Maude,
his G.0.C., who died of cholera in Novem-
ber, 1917, and who seems to have been one
of the very few generals of genius that the
Allies found during the war.
Dot and the Kangaroo (Angus and Robert-
son). A new and enlarged edition of Ethel
Pedley’s charming story, with 19 Mahony
illustrations; in the original book there were
only six. No worthier tribute of affection
to the beautiful birds and beasts of Aus-
tralia has been published.
Mr. Standfast, by John Buchan (Hodder
and Stoughton), revives Dick Hannay, this
time in the role of secret-service agent com-
mitted to the unmasking of one who was
Germany’s master-spy and the possessor of
“the subtlest brain in Europe.” For the
War Office to select for such a purpose a
brigadier who has Avon his D.S.O. on the
Somme and his C.B. at Erzerum —who, in
short, would be known by sight to thou-
sands—implies, an incredible degree of offi-
cial foolishness. The Brigadier is meant to
be a fine, stout fellow, but in real life he
would be an intolerable bore. He is a brag-
gart of the ostentatiously self-dcpreeiatorv
type, and the book that is written about him
is crude melodrama.
A Company of Tanhs, by Major W. FI. L.
Watson (Blackwood). Major Watson
joined the Tank Corps when the new Aveapon
was no more than a rumor, fought through
the days Avhen the tanks were despised of
all men, and lived to see them go a long way
towards Avinning the war. He stands out
in this attractive book as a plain, unsensa-
tion al customer who did his job to the best
of his ability and asks no other epitaph.
Economics, by James Cunnison (Methuen
and Co.). A conventional exposition of a
complex subject; useful to the student, but
cautious and insular. The author is a
Scotchman and a university lecturer, where-
fore lie observes that “Dumping is probably
the strongest argument for some measure of
■Protection.” This Statement reveals the
limitations of J. Cunnison.
The Finding of the Mayflower, by
Rendel Harris (Longmans, Green). The
Mayflower, which carried the Pilgrim
Fathers to Ameripa, was broken up and sold
in 1624. The timber was taken up the
Thames to Buckinghamshire, * where ship-
wrights were employed to build a barn with
the material. The barn stands on a brick
foundation, and is still in perfect order. The
place, Avith the farmhouse attached, was
later on bought by the Quakers, who still
own it. This is the gist of the story told in
the book. The writer heard the local tradi-
tion . that the barn was the Mayflower,
and set out to discover if it was the right
ship or some other. He arrived at what he
regards as proof; and most readers will pro-
bably agree with him. The man who most
likely built the barn Avas a pilgrim who came
back; at any rate, a man of the same name
owned the property at about that time. That
is one item in a big mass of circumstantial
evidence; and most juries would find the
old barn guilty on less closely reasoned argu-
ment.
Lily gay (The Vine Press, Steyning, Eng-
land). Mock ballads which here and there
suggest the real thing. Here is the dedica-
tion “To Poets”:—
I love my Sal and her brave caresses;
I love the lullabie songs that she can croon;
Her lily-white breast's, and her nut-brown tresses:
I could feed her lips on love with a wooden spoon.
There are better lines in the book, but that
is about the measure of the mirth ; and the
woodcuts Avhich. accompany the A'erses take
about the same size in smiles. Cleverly
enough done, but hardly worth doing.
Chronology of the War, Vol. 11. (Con-
stable and Co.). Valueless, except to mili-
tary historians—and brass-hats.
Ahe Inky Way
“D.M.W.”: Bowled completely out at
every point in his attempt to belittle Milton,
Hugh McCrae falls back on incoherent ramb-
lings and an accusation that I am very
angry- I was never farther from anger in
my life than when I proved in detail the
absurdity of his article. As for the five
nameless boys who liked Milton three shall
remain nameless; the other two are Profes-
sor Chris Brennan (Sydney University) and
myself. But the five could doubtless be mul-
tiplied by thousands. Milton needs no boost-
ing ; he answers McCrae every day in the
work of the boy Keats.
‘‘Don F.”: “Tensor” writes nonsense (R.P.
wll en he refers to the importing
of 100 copies of the German Spalteholz’s
Atlas of Anatomy” as “the working of an
old bluff.” An atlas is not, can never be,
and was never prescribed as a text-book. At
the stage when anxious meds. gather around
a “stiff’V with Cunningham in their hands—
all of them use Cunningham— they experi-
ence the need of something in the shape of
a miniature cadaver to pore over at home,
opaiteholz fills the bill. It is a series of
most excellent pictures of dissections. There
aie a few marginal notes—no one reads them.
but the plates are next thing to the real
article. The atlas is cheaper than a body,
it is not so smelly. And it lasts longer.
By the way, my copy is dated 1908,. so the
work can hardly be termed “the production
of an until lately unheard-of German writer.”


We are Agents in N.S.W. and Queensland for
m
nccs. Thao* Wwifc
British Insulated 8 Helshy Cables Ltd.
(Members of British Cable Makers’ Association).
irr
l
Kl
*
DESIGN APPEARING ON C.M.A. LABELS.
Electric Insulated Wires and Cables
Flexible Wires, Lead-covered
Wires and Cables, Braided
Aerial Wires and Cables,
House Service Fuse Boxes, etc.
Metal Manufactures Limited, Port Kembla, N.S.W.
Bare Copper Wires and Cables.
A
Hard or Soft Drawn; Copper Rods and
Strips, Cotton-covered Wires, etc.
WILLIAM ADAMS & COMPANY LIMITED
SYDNEY:
171 Clarence Street,
’Phone, City 912, 9180.
BRISBANE:
Edward and Mary Streets.
’Phone 160.


This
RABBIT
may not be as sad as he
looks. But the skins of
His sisters and his
cousins,
Have gone forward
by the dozens —
to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.,
for sale. Senders always get top market
values for Rabbit, Fox, Kangaroo and other
skins at the firm’s auctions. Consign:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD.,
Sydney or Brisbane.
Newßiscuits:
A catalogue of the refreshment
delicacies in high favor with
Sydney society folk during the
last six months would not be
complete without the name of
Joyce’s pure and delicious
biscuits featuring prominently
upon it. These dainty con-
fections are of all types, and
have been found as essential
to the elaborate dance supper
as to the informal afternoon
tea.
Your Grocer Sells Them.
s ~lxly <y ParieliQS
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
MADE BY
** MACNIVEN & '
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
4
“ THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAYERLEY PEN,'
o
-
Showing
Bottle
de-mouuted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from H-pint up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or food or cold
refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care will
lastalifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
169 West second Street, CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
M
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc,
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grads ZillC Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES— Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
"Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brooltman Buildings.
s
Me ■
I
1, 1 iff 'I
nr
□
OSTER Power Screwing Machines have self-locking (lies, adjustable for
the different sizes of pipe and any variations in the size of fittings. The
dies are controlled by a lever —they are opened or closed by one move-
ment of the hand while the machine is in motion, and are easily taken
from the die head without the use of any tool.
Let us show you how this is done.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Clias. Atkins & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd.. Perth.
John Banks & Son Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
John Danks & Son Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Parke & Lacy Co. Ltd., Sydney.
K. L. Scrutton & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Swans, Ltd., Sydney.
Fredc. Ash, Ltd., Newcastle.
Paul & Gray, Ltd., Newcastle.
A. Goninan & Co., Ltd., Newcastle.
X. J. Cane & Co., Ltd., Hobart.
McPherson’s Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
McPherson’s Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Engineering Supply Co. of Aus., Ltd.,
Brisbane.
SPARE DIES AND PARTS CARRIED IN STOCK.
Factory Representative: CHARLES WRIGHT, 16 Hunter Street, Sydney.
The
STER
MANUFACTURING CO.
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.S.A.,
Screwing Tackle Specialists.
[7.
A PERFECT
SHAVE.
It’s British.
E 1 m
Mrnnßßßswoa®®
Christopher Johnson & Co.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Their Famous Full Hollow-Ground
Metropolitan Razor.
PRICE 10/6,
Of ail Stores.
If unable to procure send Postal Note to their Representatives.
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, 50 York Street, SYDNEY.
328 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
11
m
To the large army of sufferers afflicted with
Rheumatism, Gout, Calculosis, Migraine, Eczema,
Obesity and Acid Dyspepsia.
Take courage, for URODONAL dissolves uric acid as easily as
warm water dissolves sugar, and eliminates it without your being
aware of it.
Therefore, cast aside sticks and crutches, and straighten yourself as in the days
of youth and health. URODONAL will even permit you to.eat meat and other
favorite dishes to your heart’s content. Salicylate, colchicum and iodides (by
means of which temporary relief is procured at the cost of disastrous after-effects)
are entirely superseded by URODONAL. Thanks to URODONAL, the obese
regain their normal proportions, the weary take on a new lease of life, and the
worn society woman regains and retains a clear and healthy complexion, through
the blood-purifying properties of this preparation. URODONAL is the great
discovery of the century,, and is a boon to all; it is the secret of perpetual youth,
the means of salvation for the thousands of victims of uricsema.
PREPARED BY ETABLISSEMENTS CHAXELAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 10/9.
Can be obtained from all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australasia, or from
('II ATE CAIN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 352 KENT STREET, SYDNEY, from
whom also. can be obtained Free Booklet containing Medical Opinions.
- [1
To his three daughters and three sons J.
McConnell Kerr, of Auburn (Vic.), who
passed out a few months ago, left just on
£170,000. S’African diamond-field invest-
ments laid the foundation of the fortune.
“Mum”: I bought a dress for the babe
at Rag, Tackem and Co.’s for £2 7s. 6d..
and two weeks later, at the bargain sale,
its mate was marked down at £1 3s. 9d.
When I pointed the fact out to the adorable
young thing who sold me the goods she
never batted an eyelash. “Just fancy,” she
observed, “and yet there are people who say
we don’t reduce prices at sale-time !” For-
ward one!
Declared in Alan Bott’s new book of war-
captivity, “Eastern Nights and Flights,”
that the Russian Bolsheviks gave a choice,
“hot bath or cold?” to about 200 officers
(with a few civilian officials) whom they
held as prisoners on the revolted cruiser
Almaz. “Those who chose a cold bath were
thrown into the Black Sea, with weights
tied to their feet. Those who said ‘hot’ were
stoked into the furnaces —alive.”
“Harry J.”: The old transport, with all
lights screened, was fumbling slowly through
the tropic night. From amidships came a
reproduction of Ada Jones’s lively voice,
somewhat marred by its passage through a
tin horn, a welter of Australian slang, and
the fumes of the cookhouse. “Phew!” said
a Digger. “What a stink of onions!”
“Yairs,” mused his mate, “that’s the worst
of Ada. They say she damn nearly lives
on raw onions.”
“Adelaide”: A paragraph (B. 7/10/’2O)
questions the wisdom of the Adelaide
Y.M.C.A.’s projected move from central
Gawler-place to North-terrace, half a mile
away. But the move isn’t optional. The
long lease of the premises in Gawler-place
runs out in less than three years, and renewal
can’t be obtained. So the Y. Emmas are un-
willingly taking their billiard-tables and
hymn-books further, afield, consoling them-
selves with the certainty that the new build-
ing will be more commodious than the old —
when once you get there.
Now that J. E. Mackey has been elected
for a second term as Victorian Speaker (on
the motion, too, of Premier Lawson and
Farmers’ Union leader Allan), the knight-
hood cannot surely be farther off than
January 1! When the Payment of Mem-
bers’ Increase Bill is passed, he will get
£ll5O or £l2OO a year instead of the £lOOO
he drew in the last three years. While giv-
ing his blue-and-gold uniform its last airing
for some time at a Parliamentary function,
Lieut.-Governor Irvine offered Mackey his
personal as well as his official congratula-
tions. They both had to work hard to reach
the Bar. Mackey was a printer.
The N. S. Wales Returned Soldiers’
League has turned down a proposal that it
should affiliate with. the King and Empire
Alliance. The latter is a political body,
composed in part of citizens who made a
trade of Empire patriotism until the Great
War arrived to test the value of their pro-
fessions. It is largely anti-Labor and is
flavored with Orangeism. The A.1.F., which
was about 70 per cent. Labor and 20
per cent. R.C., has already had so many
political and religious wedges driven into it
that its value as an organisation, whether
offensive or defensive, has been destroyed.
Only the League remains, and if they once
allow that to become white-anted the Diggers
may as well drop the idea of keeping the
community up to its obligations in regard to
the dead and the incapacitated. So the
turning-down of proposed alliances with out-
siders always makes good reading.
“ Veronal”: A. S. Le Souef, of the Sydney
Zoo, assisted by Charlie Barrett, of Mel-
bourne, has in hand a great work on Aus-
tralian birds. Neville Cayley will do the
colored plates, many birdmen will contri-
bute photographs from life, and Angus and
Robertson will publish the book in parts.
Samples of the first section should be ready
soon. This work may not supersede Greg
Mathews’s great Australian bird-book, still
in slow though gorgeous progress, but will at
any rate be a formidable rival, while the
actual photos of our birds will be a new
departure—practically impossible in Gould’s
time, for technical reasons. Another feature
will be a text based on the actual field-notes
of practical ornithologists. Too many bird-
books reek of the museum and give us dry-
bones instead of feathered flesh and blood.
Most pictures of Australian birds, too, even
though drawn by such great bird-artists as
J. G. Iveulemans and Gronvold —the latter
still does many of the plates for Mathews’s
book —fail in point of atmosphere; but
Cayley should be able to give us the thorough-
bred gumleaf.
BALLADE OF CLOTHES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ah, for the years of the long ago,
Days that have sped beyond recall!
Now we sit here and rhyme with woe,
Suitless because of the prices tall.
Once for five notes we could get them al
(Pause while we sip our lengthy beer!),
Soon we shall have to wear granny’s shawl.
Why are our suits so devilish dear ?
“Oh, it’s the war!” But we don’t know;
Prices soar up and they never fall.
When, oh, when shall we get a show?
Shall we for ever be held in thrall,
Men of the Flinders-lane cabal?
That is the reason why we say here
(Honeyed our tones and free from gall),
Why are our suits so devilish dear?
Out of the base of our pants we grow ;
Frightened are we to lounge and sprawl;
Always more than we pay we owe;
Painful to get is the dunning scrawl,
Bills of a size that must appal.
Ask of them, though, in voices clear,
Keyed in a gentle, questioning drawl,
Why are our suits so devilish dear?
L’ Envoy.
Brothers and men, or big or small,
Shout in a fashion to shake the sphere,
(We don’t care if it cause a brawl),
Why are our suits so devilish dear?
VICTORIA.
DUNCAN CAMPBELL.


(AST) OscS
ZTHiig^
A. Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond Cluster Bracelet,
15ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £B5.
A. Saunders’ fancy double-cut Diamond Cluster
Brooch, 15et. Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-eut Diamond
Cluster Necklet,
15et. Gold,
A. Saunders Lady’s solid Gold double-cut Diamond-set
Expanding Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled Lever move-
ment, compensation balance, £2O.
Larger Diamonds, £25. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond knife-edge Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £5O.
Smaller Diamonds, £4O, £3O.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster Bar Brooch,
15et. Gold, £35.
Smaller Diamonds, £25.
A. Saunders’ double-cut
Diamond Necklet, 15ct.
Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’ fine double-cut Diamond Bracelet, 15ct.
Gold, £3O.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15et. Gold, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £7/10/-. Smaller Diamond, £5.
A. Saunders’ Diamond and Pearl Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £3. All Diamonds, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
18ct. Gold, £l5.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l2/10/-, £lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£3O. Smaller
Diamond, £25.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £7O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
A l . Saunders’ fine
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£B/10/-
Larger Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£2O. Smaller
Diamonds, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s solid Gold Hunting Keyless
Patent Lever, jewelled compensation balance,
£l2/10/-, £l5, £2O, £25, £3O, £35,
£4O, £5O. Gold-filled Elgin or Waltham,
£5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-,
£B/10/-, £lO. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
King, 18ct. Gold,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£lO. Larger Dia-
mond, £l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, ISct. Gold,
£l5. Larger Dia-
monds, £2O, £25.
sms
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Trefoil Ring,
ISct. Gold,
£l2/10/-, £2O.
A. Saunders’ ''
double-cut Dia-
mond Crossover
Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£2O. Smaller Dia-
monds, £l5,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full-jewelled Lever movement, £l2/10/-
15ct. Gold, £l7/10/-, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 GEORGE STREET (opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full-jewelled Lever movement, £B/10/-
Others, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-, £lO,
£l2/10/-, £l5. Guaranteed.
What Is aYearofYourLifeWorth?
If you could read the hundreds of letters in the Institute’s files, you
would he impressed with the number of them' that come from men who
are still young, and yet have reached commanding positions in the
business world. These men have saved many years of their lives by
cutting short the time so often wasted in obtaining business experience.
In half-page advertisements the outstanding facts regarding the
Alexander Hamilton Institute are being presented to you month
by month.
These Facts are; —
1. That the Alexander Hamilton Institute Course and Service is the
result of a careful analysis of the principles practised by successful
business men.
2. That an Advisory Council, consisting of business and educational
leaders of the highest authority, stands behind the Institute.
3. That many thousands of men, representing every kind and depart-
ment of business, and every position from President* to Clerk, have
tested the practical value of this training in their own experience.
4. That literally scores of successful men, such as those quoted here,
have gladly recorded their appreciation of this training for the sake
of the influence which their names may have with other men.
What Others Have Said:—
There are men like Charles E. Murnan, Vice-President of the United
Drug Company, who says: The Course is not only the most instructive
and valuable treatise on live subjects for men who are training for
business careers, but it is the most concise, instructive and clearly pre-
sented form of education that has been presented for the use of executives .
Or Wm. H. Ingersoll, of the famous Ingersoll Watch, who writes: The
Modern Business Course and Service gives the first coherent presentation
of the entire subject of business. It gives one cl perspective csnd an
appreciation of essentials, as well as much knowledge regarding right
and wrong methods of procedure.
Or President George M. Verity of the American Polling Mill Company,
who said: When I learned that some fifty of our men had decided to
take up the Modern Business Course and Service, the stock of this
Company rose several points in my estimation.
A Moment of Decision.
This page does not seek to present additional facts or arguments. No
additional facts are required; and the Institute wants no man enrolled
in its Course who needs to be persuaded by argument. It is a straight-
f ol ward appeal to thousands of able men to say: I mean to
investigate. It is a request for a moment’s decision which may change
the course of your career.
Forging Ahead in Business.
A 116-page book called “Forging Ahead in Business” has been published
by the Alexander Hamilton Institute. It explains fully the Modern
Business Course and Service and contains scores of letters from men
like the ones quoted on this page. There are no copies for drifters or
the merely curious:
but the Institute would
like to place a copy,
without obligation, in
the hands of every
man who is asking
himself: “Where ami
going to be in business
ten years from now?”
Send for your copy to-
day.
*More than 20,000 presidents
are enrolled.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON INSTITUTE
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Send me Forging Ahead in Business”
which 1 may keep without obligation.
Name
Business
Position
Business
Address
Bf


Hose of Luxite
Nobody can have better
Hose than Luxite—manu-
factured from the softest,
longest fibres and strong-
est yarn obtainable. Its
serviceability is a cer-
tainty.
Insist on having this
brand. Our enormous pro-
duction saves expense in
many ways, hence “ Lux-
ite ” prices are always
low. The soft, full-bodied
shimmer of Luxite Hose
is acquired.
If your dealer is unable
to supply you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
50 York Street :: SYDNEY.
f .‘'JL J
•xw •
Mm. .
/
Fencing Wire
Is guaranteed by the makers.
See that the wire you buy has
this tag attached.
Illustrated Fencing Booklet Is
Free. Write To-day.
AUSTRAL NAIL CO. PTY., LTD.,
310 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
MIFFS, NEWCASTFE, N.S.W.
THIS TAG
PROTECTS
YOU.
Look for this Trade Mark.
It is your guarantee of
quality.
mmma
There are other brands
of porous underwear, but
"Keepkool” is the only
ribbed and porous under-
wear. Look for the
w Keepkool ” trade-mark
and refuse substitutes.
If your mercer cannot supply
"Keepkool” write to us for name
of nearest store stocking same.
Wholesale Distributors:.
HILL BROS., Melbourne and Sydney
" KEEPKOOL ” for COMFORT
>4m§. m 1
PARSONS
PETROL-
KEROSENE
ENGINES
Stationary & Marine
Portable
Air-Compressor
Plant
incorporating
14=H.P. PARSONS
ENGINE.
Output 50 cubic feet
at 1001 b. Press.
Robert Grant,
63 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
BALL
BEARINGS
SKF
The factory engineer who installs SKIP
Self-Aligning Ball Bearings throughout his
plant has done the utmost towards reaching
highest efficiency with maximum economy,
for SKPs save from 50% to 100% of their
value yearly.
SKF Ball Bearings are made from Swedish
Crucible Steel, are accurately finished and uniformly
hard thoughout.
SKIP Bearings do NOT become hot, hence
they prevent loss of power due to excessive
friction. They assure smooth, free running,
saving of power, saving of belts and supreme
durability.
Specify SSCP Bearings (the World’s
best) for every part of your plant that
needs bearings.
GARDNER,
W/ERN
& CO.,
Power & Light
Engineers.
MELBOURNE-
-384 City Road.
Showrooms—
-369 Flinders Street
SYDNEY-
-225 Clarence St.
BRISBANE-
-367 Queen Street.
■
m
m
■
wm
m
Butler Gorge, New Zealand.
New Zealand
THE WONDERLAND
OF THE WORLD.
The place for a
REAL GOOD
HOLIDA Y.
Pamphlets and full in-
formation supplied free
at
THE NEW ZEALAND
GOVT. OFFICES.
Sydney:—
Condon Bank Chambers,
Moore Street.
Melbourne: —
Dominion Chambers,
59 William Street.
THE
k
Us
«r- t
-Jf-
OF
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
With which, is amalgamated the Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Authorised Capital .. £S^OOO jOOO Directors: — SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
Capital paid up.
Keserve Fund
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
£2,000,000
1,200,000
£3,200,000
828,000
£4,028,000
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.
Chief-Manager: E. H. WREFORD.
Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Sydney Office 60 Pitt St. Manager; R. S. GREGSON. Acting Sub-Manager; A. W. HEWETT.
George St. City Office, 350 George St. Manager; j. a. g. Hadley.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia. Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE; 7 Lothbiiry, E.C. 2.
There has been talk of an undertakers’
strike at Ballarat. But so far the bier has
not been declared black.
“The matter with you,” snorted one Mel-
bourne south suburban councillor to another
during a recent fiery debate, “is that there
is no room for anything between your ears.”
The compositor who sets up the story often
knows more than the man who wrote it.
In an English review article on Greek poli-
tics during the war it was said of an occa-
sion when the Hunnish Queen interfered with
a promising negotiation: “It was at once
seen that the bitch was serious.” The writer
has probably taken to his bed.
Wilson, Yorkshire amateur, schoolmaster,
Cambridge graduate and member of the pre-
sent English XI, has an amazing memory
for 1, dates and figures. He says it has been
exaggerated ; but it hardly could be. Chat-
ting in Adelaide about the cricket of more
than 40 years ago—before he was born —
he pleasantly set right an old-timer as to
the score made by Charles Bannerman for
N. S. Wales against Vic. —180-odd.
The M.L. Legislative Council got worked up
the other day on the subject of' tie temere.
It wanted to make it an offence punishable
with a year’s imprisonment or a fine of £lOO
to “allege, expressly or by implication, that
any persons lawfully married are not truly
and sufficiently married, or that the issue of
any lawful marriage is illegitimate or born
out of true wedlock.” The Dominion
Assembly agreed to the fine but boggled at
the imprisonment. And .with that provision
struck out the thing became law.
Rick Elmes, a pre-war contributor of
black-and-white work to the Bulletin, has
struck oil iu London. Full-page cartoons
over his signature are appearing in papers
like the Westminster Gazette and the
English Review. The oil, however, mostly
gushes from the Carlton advertising organ-
isation, with which three other Australians
—Allison, Murton and Valkenburg—are con-
nected.
More Assembly members than usually go
on such occasions flocked into the Vic. Leg.
Council chamber when Cussen, J., bewigged
and clad in scarlet and ermine, opened the
new State Parliament in his capacity of
Royal Commissioner. They, of course, re-
membered the fine work lie had done in con-
solidating the statutes five years ago, and
how he had been thanked at the bar of each
House. Cussen was never a member of
Parliament, but that special service estab-
lished a link between him and the Houses
stronger than if he had been a leader in one
chamber or the other.
“Copy Boy”: The bloomer of a Yankee
comp, has brought much joy to the U.S.
Republicans. At the start of the Presidential
election campaign, W. J. Bryan, who is
determined to keep Yankeeland dry for demo-
cracy, declared in an address at San Fran-
cisco : “Nothing having the odor of the vat
can hope to receive the approval of this con-
vention.” An intelligent comp, on the Salt
Lake Tribune, not to be beaten by a mere
abbreviation, set up “vat” as “Vatican,” and
now the Republican papers are reprinting
the misprint in large type and inviting R.C.
electors to show their disapproval of the
Democratic attempt to raise the sectarian
issue.
R. B. Walker, one of the Cumberland
trio in N. S. Wales Assembly, is a solicitor,
like his father, the late W. Walker, M.L.C.
The latter’s progenitor kept a school at
Windsor when the settlement was young.
Walker, M.L.C., was connected by marriage
with three historic families. His first
wife was a grand-daughter of Roland Has-
sall, the early-day parson. His second was
a daughter of Robert Cooper, of Juniper
Hall, Paddington, the early-day distiller, etc.
The third was a daughter of William Wood,
of Pitt Town. Their husband was mem-
ber for Windsor from 1860 to 1869. Parkes
made him an M.L.C. in 1887, and in 1908
the last division bell rang.
It has been impressed on the farmer that
when hay is abundant, and consequently
cheap, he should store some up for times
when it is scarce and dear. Of course if the
scarce time finds him without enough cattle
of his own to use the stuff he sells it. Under
lawyer McTiernan’s Anti-Profiteering Bill he
can fall in if he does this in N. S. Wales —
fall in under several clauses. If, however,
he is innocent there are so many elaborate
ways of proving it that he should come out
with an unblemished character. The hay-
stack will be swallowed in costs, of course;
but that won’t matter.
“S.T.S.”: Conan Doyle does not believe
in the second-syllable emphasis in “allies.”
London made a fetich of it, even disqualify-
ing an admittedly good competition-verse of
Ogilvie’s, early in the war, because it began
“A’s the Allies. B’s the Bomb. C’s the
cloud they drop it from.” Doyle does the
same, and more, pronouncing “Ally” just as
though “Sloper ” were to follow. And I have
always thought Ogilvie was right, London
wrong. In English words made up of
Latin preposition and verb, the rule is con-
sistent—stress on the first syllable for the
noun, on the second for the verb. Thus,
‘■abstract,” “conduct,” “extract,” “imports,”
“pervert,” “produce,” “refuse,” “transport”
and a host of others.
“Ex-Dig.”: The warrior who wants to
swank can adorn his chest with a display of
bunting that will make him resemble a
regatta. Consider the list of decorations
worn by a man lately charged with unwar-
rantably sporting the M.C. colors: Military
Cross ribbon and bar, 1914-15 ribbon and
star, General Service ribbon, Coronation rib-
bon, Territorial ribbon and “another he did
not know the name of.” Recently I met
a renowned lead-swinger who managed to
avoid the passage across to France until
August, 1918, and even then he didn’t join
his unit until it had dropped out of the line.
His ribbon parade dazzled me, and he was
a walking museum of badges and marks.
He had a medallion showing a full issue of
service chevrons, and two wound bars, in-
tended no doubt to commemorate the great
day when a faked illness landed him in
hospital. This sort of thing has caused the
dinkum Digger to haul down his colors and
keep them in his pocket.


m
■
■
MLStf MADGE ELLIOTT
{from a photo).
MISS G RAC IE LAVERS
(from a photo).
iiSWW
-V \ v
MISS DOROTHY BRUNTON
(from a photo).
MISS DOROTHY HAWTREE
(from a photo).
■
| : ■ i
W*.
MISS NELL FALLON
( from, a photo).
SSSSh
l§®i
MISS BERYL NOVAK
(from a photo).
& II
MISS JEAN ROBERTSON
(from a 'photo).
■ . V
. -i!
lllii
mv'zm
r v
MISS EDNA WATERS
(from a photo).
T,
■
■
K
a
JIfJSS /M/.ST REVETTE
(from a photo).
SOME BEAUTIFUL MEMBERS
of THE REXONA GIRLS’ CLUB.
Why Not Be a REXONA GIRL, too?
The Rexona Club of Rexona Girls is now many thousands
strong. All Rexona Girls are beautiful girls, for beauty
and Rexona go together. Why not be a Rexona Girl,
too? Rexona and Rexona Soap ensure that clear, fresh
skin and beautiful hair which go so far to give any
girl that natural charm and beauty which is her
rightful heritage.
Be Dainty, he Pretty, be Attractive,
be a REXONA GIRL.
Use only REXONA & REXONA SOAP.
That natural beauty of skin and hair, which cannot be
imitated, can be obtained by regular use of Rexona
Skin and Facial Soap. Ordinary toilet soaps do not
assert this influence. Many of them contain free alkali,
which, tends to dry the skin and destroy its delicate
texture. Even the best of such soaps can only cleanse,
they cannot heal and protect the skin. Rexona Soap
contains the same soothing, healing, antiseptic balsams
as Rexona the Rapid Healer, the value of which in the
treatment of skin affections is known throughout the
world. Simply use Rexona Skin and Facial Soap
regularly once or twice a day, and see if it does not
quickly soothe and cleanse the pores, lessen the tendency
to pimples and leave the complexion clear, fresh and
velvety. Price l/~ per tablet.
The Rexona Remedies—Products of Quality.
Rexona, the Rapid Healer, 1/6 and 3/-
Rexona, the Aristocrat of Soaps, 1/- per Tablet.
mgm i:
m
IiSIS
w
■ ■
m
m
as
m
m |
MI SR CECIL BRADLEY
'from a photo').
MISS RENE MURPHY
(from a photo).
MISS ESTELLE RAY
(from a photo).
-—?
&
11 Vd/ggy
Sv\
H
mi
MISS OLGA ROBINSON
(from a photo).
MISS MABEL BATCHELOR
(from a photo).
MISS BRYDIE REVENALL
{from, a 'photo').
MISS DOLLY NEPEAN
(from a photo).
l ™
. . -
3 : ; ■ .. W
iJf/SS DOROTHY GARDINER
(from a photo).
*
*
MISS SYBIL ATHOLWOOD
(from a photo).


Wash Out Your Pores
With Cuticura Soap
And have a clear, sweet, healthy skin with
little trouble and trifling expense. Con-
trast this simple wholesome treatment
with tiresome massaging and other fads.
On retiring smear the face with Cuticura
Ointment on the end of the finger, wash
off in five minutes with Cuticura Soap and
hot water, using plenty of soap, best ap-
plied with the hands which it softens,
and continue bathing afewmoments. Rinse
with tepid water and dry gently.
For sample each address: “R. Towns &
Co.. Sydney, N. S. W.” Sold everywhere.
IW> Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
Soap. 1/-; Ointment, 1/- & 2/-
BOND’S TRIPLEWEAR HOSE.
Marie in Australia.
cats
|
AN IDEAL HOSE,
combining wonderful wear with beautiful
appearance.
Retail Selling Price, 12/11 per pair.
Hotel c/e Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per day, or from
Four Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
AMERICA'S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to: CASA TORRE, 91 Calle
S.. Antonio, S. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF: —From 17/6 per day.
10/- per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
;
w
' / r
/ / /7
88
\\2J
'/m
S'
K
stand for all that is best in
style, fit, fabric and finish.
No other Shirts look or fit so
well, or give equal comfort.
Obtainable at all Clothing
Stores —so are THISTLE
PYJAMAS.
Alexander Stewart & Sons
Ltd.
Makers
Sydney and Brisbane
A.S. 36
this
Drand
on
each
•shirt..
&
%
m
-7?
&
%
a
ir
m
ffrtetiSL @ SArrfs
AO
<3c^
*
c
<&s
K-?
k
H6!der Top
SHAVING STICK
You may not want, you
may not need, a regular
mountain of lather. But you can get it if you like
with Williams’. You never get a thin lather, a
stringy lather, or one that dries on your face. It’s
always billowy, creamy, soft and soothing,
and it lasts until the razor gets all the
way round.
And the holder top is an added conveni-
ence which you will appreciate the
longer you use it.
Take home a stick to-
night and you will be
glad to-morrow morn-
ing.
Procurable at all To-
bacconists & Chemists
W 39
w
.< .
p»-
it®"
You’ll Still Smell the Dip
in the Wool!
Take any of those fleeces at Shearing Time, and if they’ve
been Dipped in “Vallo” you will actually smell the Dip
in the Wool. It will still be there —and with it that
lasting protection which ensures cleaner Fleeces, better
Sheep, bigger Clips. Dip Your Sheep in
"misM
Powder SHEEP DIP
and you solve your Dipping Problem for Twelve Months
hence. Your Sheep will be Vermin - free from that
moment onwards. They’ll be Vermin-proof, too, for
“Vallo” means Protection from Dipping to Dipping. Try
it. Its effectiveness will impress you.
All Stores —everywhere
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - BRISBANE
38
A lease has been granted to mine for
turquoise at Samsonvale, near Brisbane. It
has so far been found in several localities in
Brisbane in the schists, notably in sewerage
excavation, but nothing has been found to
denote any likely deposits of economic value.
“E.D.”: “Wanted, soprano ballad singer
for touring company. Good needlewoman
for preference.” This appeared in a recent
Age. Still, I remember the time when both
Age and Argus contained the intimation:
“Wanted at once, for company about to go
on tour, gentlemanly young actor. Bill-
poster preferred.”
Scullin, the strongest Labor man that could
be found for Grenville at the recent Vic.
elections, has no luck against the Gibsons.
It was W.G. of that clan who beat him out
of the Corangamite Federal seat; and now
it is W.G.’s younger brother Dave, a plough-
and-harrow candidate, who has taken the
Assembly seat.
“Tim” : For the information of “Pip Tok”
(B. 4/11/20), “napoo” was in use .long
before the Old Contemptibles jolted Fritz in
1914. Sailors, Cockney . tourists, etc.,
brought it into the language generations ago,
as “Pip Tok” will find if he consults
Marryat’s yarn dealing with Nelson’s jack
tars and the Tommies of the Peninsular
campaign'.
“Kopai”: Somebody has played a scurvy
trick on Vic. perfumery vendors. A toilet
soap, made in America and sold for about
lid. in pre-war times, has been selling lately
at Is. 9d., the wholesale cost being 19s. doz.
tablets. The makers decided to manufacture
in Sydney, and retailers, scenting another
rise, bought avidly. Then came the announce-
ment that the Sydney-made tablet would be
10s. a doz. wholesale, and Is. a cake retail.
“Film Up”: Dry America is hard put to
it to find a stimulant. The other week on
the New York-New Orleans Limited the first
entertainment on board a train was given
with great €clat (French for “press noise”).
The entertainment consisted of pictures with
phonographic accompaniment. But the show
didn’t stimulate the passengers worth a cent.
There are many travellers in America who
take a long-distance trip to escape the movies.
The dean of Vic. musicians is Alfred
Montague, of Melbourne. Although 84 he
still teaches the piano and ’cello. When he
was 17 a Melbourne medico gave him only
a few months to live, but the wine-like air
of Ballarat did what pills and potions failed
to do. Montague played his beloved ’cello
with the opera co. that included Carandini
and Sara Flower, and has been an active
member of the Melbourne Philharmonic So-
ciety since its inception in 1853.
“Hamfat”: A showman of my acquaint-
ance was collecting a company for a country
tour. One of the applicants was a capable
veteran, and my friend was anxious to find
a place for him, but it was suggested that,
as a juvenile was already engaged, the old ’un
might take parts suitable to his years. . “My
boy,” thundered the actor-r, “I am 65 years
old and for 40 years I Lave been a juvenile
lead. Do you think that I am going to com-
mence impersonating old men at my time of
life?”
The implacable hostility of the A.L.P. to
backsliders with names like Henderson and
Brown contrasts oddly with its kindness to
offenders of Irish extraction. Minahan, dis-
qualified for four years, was readmitted in
six months. Meagher, outed for life, is in
process of being whitewashed too. Meagher’s
breach of the A.L.P. code was the same as
that of Buzacott, Burchell, Guthrie, Barn-
ford, Earle, Scaddan, Adamson and Thomas.
But nobody thinks of moving for the restora-
tion of Buzacott, Burchell, Guthrie, Bam-
ford, Earle, Bcaddan, Adamson or Thomas.
Their forebears made the mistake of being
born in the wrong island.
“Billy T.”: The Vincents were at Mel-
bourne Opera House, and the metropolis was
not yet captive either to the Vincent lady’s
charms or the Vincent gentleman’s genius,
and the other Vincent who was leading
comedian had not helped much to fill the
abhorred vacuum that appeared nightly
between the Opera House roof and the Opera’
House floor. In the interval between Acts
3 and 4, the Vincent who managed came
into an adjacent hotel with a friend, and,
finding several journalistic acquaintances
there, was introduced to a tall, thin, sad
man to whom he immediately offered a
“stiff.” “See the rest of our show,” said he.
The sad man offered the paper back. “Ah,
have a go, at someone else,” said he ; “I’ve
been in half the evening already.”
THE LITERARY LOVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Down printed paths he makes his quest,
Right recklessly the ink he slings,
Intrudes in many another’s nest,
Yet nobody his weasand wrings;
Though he oft cuckolds warrior kings
His tepid blood is still unshed,
For, lo! this gay Lothario sings
The ladies who are safely dead.
Aflame he clasps unto his breast,
Heedless of writs and wedding-rings,
Those dainty dears whose beauty blest
No parlous mine or mantrap springs ;
No jeopardising scandal clings
About their low and darkling bed,
Nor ask they inconvenient things,
The ladies who are safely dead.
Maybe ’tis but Time’s final jest,
As vulture-like he preens his wings
Above the holes where beauties rest,
That now their bruited sweetness brings
But lovers lapped in leading-strings,
Of legends stale, on fiction fed —
A barbed jest, I know it stings
The ladies who are safely dead.
Envoy.
But, oh, the puissant pen he swings!
And, now your turbulence is sped,
What passion to your dust he flings,
You ladies who are safely dead !
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


m
Dodeeßrdthers
MOTOR EAR
The appearance of the car inspires respect.
It gives an instant impression of sturdiness and
strength.
This impression is verified by its long life and
excellent performance.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
Dodge Brothers
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Bty., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland) L<td,
Brisbane.
Standardised MotorSj jLimitedj
Sydney.
Winterbottom Motor €«., Ltd.,
Perth.
Cheney Motor Co., Ltd.,
'aide.
Safeguard yoor health
otJ.Collis Brovnels
CWorodjwe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE REST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Co/ds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of KUONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE. RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery,
SOLD IN BOTTLES.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3 and 3/-.
Made in England.
m
»
II
The‘PLUM’
is the
Razor for Me!”
This noted Razor is no new inven-
tion —thousands are sold annually.
The “Plum” requires but little strop-
ping, as its finely-tempered edge keeps
keen against the stiffest heard, and
gives just that smooth, velvety shave
1 which every man appreciates.
Price 12/6, post free.
We keep it in order for two years free
of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle 12/6
Pair in Double Case 257-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle.. 15/6
Pair in Double Case 30/-
(This line makes a handsome present)
“Plum” Strops, each.. 7/6 & 10/6
“Plum” Stop Dressing 1/2
All the above Post Free.
I
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell § Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS I
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
V
Ui A
Benger’s Food does three
things for the dyspeptic
it gives complete nourishment;
—it allays the craving of the stomach»
—it w.ns back natural digestion.
Food
A.lB.
is so highly nutritious that athletes use it in training, so
delicious that invalids and aged persons enjoy it, year
in and year cut.
The Booklet of Benger’s Food contains dainty recipes which give
relief from the sameness of milk and similar diet. These are so light
as to give nourishment with digestive rest. Post free on request from
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Solo Proprietors and Manufacturers: BERBER’S FOOD. LTD.. MANCHESTER, England.
A Circle that Never
Stops Growing.
It is astonishing how quickly people get to
know about a car and especially about
the men who build it.
People are not buying Dodge Brothers Motor
Car simply because they want a car of
some sort, or any sort.
They are buying it because they want the
precise and particular kind of car that
Dodge Brothers build.
All over the country they seem to have a
shrewd and accurate idea of exactly the
kind of manufacturers Dodge Brothers
are.
Thev seem to know that Dodge Brothers’
idea, from the very first, was that if
they built the car right—nothing else
mattered much.
People generally know all about the car —
or nearly all —before they call on a
Dodge Brothers dealer.
They know it either from their own experi-
ence, or from what they have 'seen or
been told of other people’s experience.
They pick out the very points for which it
is noted everywhere —points which have
not been emphasised especially in adver-
tising.
They know why they want the car —and
they are more eager for it to-day all
over the country than they have been at
any othet period in its history.
The production has always been too small
to come anywhere near satisfying the
demand.
It is at this moment, and it probably will
be for years to come, no matter how
much it may be increased.
The explanation is ridiculously simple.
The car has never bred anything but good-
will.
Every time one of these cars goes into a
home it becomes an intimate part of
the family life of that home.
It gets nothing but good words and good-
will. ,
The result is that that particular home be-
comes a little circle of goodwill revolv-
ing around Dodge Brothers Motor Car.
The circle spreads out finally, and takes
in a nearby neighbor.
The neighbor’s home, in turn, begins to
radiate goodwill toward Dodge Brothers
and their car, and the circle keeps on
growing.
In that way it has grown wider and wider
till it takes in the entire country.
There is always a desire for the car wait-
ing to be satisfied as fast as the dealer
gets in a supply.
That’s why sales of more than 500,000 Dodge
Brothers Motor Cars, in five and a half
years have fallen far short of satisfying
the demand.
The car has qualities peculiar to itself.
People have found this out in their own
way.
It has made good with them, and they have
given it their goodwill.
That is why the goodwill circle goes on
growing greater and greater.
Dodge Brothers know this.
They know it is the biggest and best asset
in their business.
And, knowing it, they will of course keep
on making the car better and better.
The Standardised Motors, Limited, Dealers
in New South Wales for Dodge Bro-
thers, are fortunate in having just
landed stocks to meet the ever-increas-
ing demand for the car.


ik
JbTik* [ v /
Medical History
An Interesting Case Told in a Humorous Way.
The following letter is another striking tribute to the blood-purifying properties of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. Although written in a somewhat humorous strain, Mr. Hastie
is nevertheless sincere, and will be pleased to confirm what he says.
21 South Street, Double Bay, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—-
Even in these days of strenuous endeavor and daily struggle for existence, one occasionally
finds time to discourse upon the merits or demerits of people, commodities, patent medicines and
pills, so I crave your patience awhile if I may, and will give you a brief review of my medical history
from June, 1916, to the present day, which includes, of course, my service of three years with the
A.I.F. overseas, those three years of bodily unhappiness being the main cause of my writing. It
gives me unbounded pleasure to thus extol the wonderful virtues of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills,
and the following is an unbiassed history of the benefit I have derived from them. The facts
are these: June, 1916, went into camp at Dubbo, N.S.W. A fortnight elapsed; came out all over
from head to heel in a red, itchy rash. Big blains, similar to bug or mosquito bites (there were
no “chats” in those days). Went to the M. 0., who examined me, took my temperature, and ordered
me to the Observation Tent. Spent eighteen hours in the company of another patient, who was
also under observation, though his was for diphtheria! The rash disappeared for a week. On its
reappearance underwent further examination, and was informed I had hives. Cure, black draught.
Ugh! Didn’t stay cured, however, and so on and off till October, 1916, had this elusive, madden-
ing rash. It disappeared on the transport, and no further trace was apparent till March, 1917.
More medical observation. This time was given “number 9’s” and a lotion for external use, with
instructions to refrain from pickles, cheese or vinegar, etc. At various times and places
during my sojourn in sunny (?) France, and charming (??) Belgium my rash appeared,
sticking closer and more faithful than ever a soldier chum knew how. On leave, went
to private doctors (several). Each and every diagnosis was different. Here are a few:
Hives, ptomaine poisoning, stomach disorder, ascaris, after effects of malarial fever, scabies, blood-
poisoning. Anyway, had my beloved rash still with me when I returned to Aussie, September 2,
1919. On leave prior to discharge met an old chum, who was very much concerned at my blotchy
and general unhappy appearance. He went so fatf as to suggest I had leprosy! I told him what
the multitude of doctors had said, and that I despaired of ever losing my “old man of the sea.”
He then suggested a course of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. Said they had done him the world
of good for kidney trouble, and added that perhaps uric acid might be the caqse of my complaint.
I said I was fed up with patent medicines and pills, having tried so many. Anyway, I started a course
of Root Pills. A month went by, and no rash. Carried on with them, and still no rash. So here I
am—twelve months home nearly and only one recurrence. That was because I knocked them off.
Now I take these pills every morning, and as long as they are procurable I intend to have them.
Even if you start to profiteer, probably I shall curse you; still I’ll buy ’em, and take care, too, to
have a bottle in hand in case of a strike. Now, gentlemen, the main reason (as I have stated) for
writing was to give a genuine proof of the value of Root Pills to me. But also my experience and
the subsequent discovery of this medicine that has made life worth living for me may be of some use
to other poor unfortunates who may be troubled as I was. Oh, how I can sympathise when I think
of those dreary, sleepless nights, and the agonising itch, itch, scratch, scratch, with no hope of relief!
I even envied the most “chatty” person in the A.I.F. My company chums can bear out all I have
written. I have not exaggerated in any one detail. In closing, my earnest wish is that the formulae
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills will never be lost, at least not while I am sojourning on this quaint
old planet. After? Well, methinks one will not need pills of any kind. N’est ce pas? Might
mention I now eat any old thing at all—just as fancy or desire dictates—safe behind my “impenetrable
armor” of huge stacks of Root Pillo. (Signed) FRANK W. HASTIE.
m
a
D
R
Morses
g
I
m.
V7X/
r'A
x Zt
m
mzz
n^B
TjVER
FOR Tflk
For the purpose of cleansing the system, Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are unrivalled. They cleanse the stomach, purify the blood,
aid the digestion and assimilation of food, and tone the entire system.


//'
h
I
m
V.
zsr
$
/£
rs
&
V
%
%
05
vV
<y
Ss
56
cy'
eg
is
\
I
$
7
WHEN you can’t work, feel irritable and sick "professor uvertab*
all over, it is a sign that your system •
is clogged up with dangerous poisons from
indigestion, biliousness and constipation.
Take Chamberlain’s Tablets for the stomach and liver.
Their action is quick, mild and gentle. They will strengthen the
bowels, tone up the digestive organs and make you feel fit for work.
ChamberlainsTablds
FOR THE STOMACHandLIVER
Conserve Power! Lower Costs!
HOPKINSON
All British Steam Specialties
wLd.
are your surest guarantee of a care-free plant. The
most efficient steam plants in the world use HOPKINSON
Valves and Fittings, and so keep down running costs
to an irreducible minimum.
HOPKINSON Steam Specialties eliminate all danger,
too. They are built to stand the strain of hard work
and are the highest quality obtainable. See the name
HOPKINSON on every valve you buy. It pays.
Renewable Seats and Discs of Platnam Metal. Hard as
nickel-steel, and eliminates all scoring of valves and
seats. Exclusive designs and high-grade workmanship.
HOPKINSON Mac Valve for high-pressure steam and
hard waters. Straight through and angle types with
screw or flange connections. Inside or outside spindle.
Stock sizes up to 3 inches.
HOPKINSON Ferranti Patent Stop Valve, accepted
universally as the finest valve for high-pressure work.
Easily surpasses the full bore valve. In cast iron or cast
steel from 4-inch upwards.
HOPKINSON Parallel Slide Blow-off Valves, Isolation Valves and
Steam Traps. The latter have been adapted extensively by Aus-
tralian Government Power Houses and large steam users.
Large Stocks. Write for Illustrated Catalogue of all Engineering Requirements.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY), LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney; (MELBOURNE)
PTY., LTD., 499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne; and Darling Build-
ings, Adelaide. Selling Agents: CHAS. E. 125 Adelaide
Street, Brisbane; J. R. W. GARDAM, Perth.
A Wedding in the Solomons.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE plantation schooner Muscovy Duck
quivered on a wave-crest for an in-
stant, then dipped her nose into the
next sea, rose, and shook the water from her
as though she were her namesake at her
morning bath.
Gradually the sea grew worse. The crew
were huddled forward, the newchums among
them crying silently with fear; the others,
with more experience of the white man and
his ships, watching Sutherland’s face, reading
his fears and hopes. The wind shifted a
point or two in our favor ; the mountains rose
out of the sea, and the water fizzed from our
sides as we rolled and dived towards them.
The moon was lighting up the palm-fringed
beach of Kobiloko as we slipped through the
opening in the coral reef, and dropped our
anchor in the shelter of the bay.
Coopa, the chief, came aboard, and greeted
Sutherland as an old friend. “Master, me
pleased too much you come back. Now he
too much sea along catchem Perara this one
night. You ’n’ this ’nother one white man
he come along village belong me. You savvy
this one Pliss piccaninny belong me. Cookie
belong you he marry this one to-night. Too
much pig Rasu he give me alonga this one
Mary.”
A visitor to the group had given Coopa’s
daughter an evening dress. She took not
only the dress but the visitor’s name
(Phyllis) as well. But they could not get
their tongues round it, and so there you have
“Pliss.” We changed into dry clothes on
the schooner and stood watching shoreward
for a while. Behind us the sea rumbled and
roared Upon the fissured coral reef; in front,
like a grey belt of clouds, the mountains lay
beneath the rising moon. We stepped
cautiously into the canoe, and with a few
twirls of his paddle Coopa glided us ashore.
A string of men wended their way along a
narrow bush track ; a vine-bound cocoanut-
leaf lighted them on the way. Their bodies
glittered in the flare-lights as they swayed
under the weight of the pigs tied to sap-
lings and borne op their shoulders.
Preparations for the feast were begun by
tying up the mouths of the pigs and suffocat-
ing them. A noose was drawn tight on the
nose, the end being wound round the mouth
Until all air was excluded. The hair was re-
moved quickly by fire and the skin scraped
with shells. The flesh was taken from the
bones as we remove a hide; only the bones
and intestines remained. The meat was then
folded with the skin outside, and placed on
the hot stones so that none of the juices
should escape. The women opened the
bone, and gathering the blood mixed it with
the fat, placed it in bamboos and cooked it.
slowly by the fire.
A banyan-tree stood in the centre of the
village. Some of the aerial roots were cut,
so that the spaces underneath resembled
caves in the lamplight. Here and there a
live opossum hung by the tail caught in a
slit branch, and waited its turn to be pushed
into a bamboo.
The wedding dance was opened by the
women. Sixteen of them formed a square
four deep. A short skirt of gaudy-colored
print took the place of the reed dress; the
hair was ornamented with the feathers of
the white parrot and the hornbill. Each
woman carried a carved dance-stick decorated
with flowers and multi-colored leaves. From
their necks, suspended by pieces of vine, hung
orchids too beautiful for description. On top
of each dance-stick, fitted to a piece of law-
yer-cane, was a carved flycatcher, .or shep-
herd’s companion, which turned as the dance-
sticks were swayed. After a low-pitched
and musical chant, the women tied rattle
shells to their ankles. Taking three or four
steps forward, in number according to the
rhythm, they brought the right foot down
with a thud and a guttural “oom-oom.” Every
movement was in perfect time.
Pliss had on the low-backed, low-necked
discarded evening dress of her white sister.
White feathers were in her short, curly, lime-
bleached hair; a bunch of nut shells were
tied at either ankle. For a Kanaka she was
good to look upon. She stood by an aerial
root of the banyan, the light from the flares
casting weird shadows on her white gown.
Her big, black, saucer eyes were downcast.
Rasu, her husband-to-be, sat with the other
men on a fallen trunk of a mamahui-tree.
They swayed their bodies and clapped their
hands to the time of the women’s chanting.
The old women brought us grilled pork bones
as an appetiser.
In the shadow of the banyan now stood
the men who had sat and swayed to the vocal
music ; they were striped with the juice of
betel-nut and lime from head to foot. With
a guttural grunt they rushed into the full
moonlight and stood for a moment still as
statues. Then leaping as one man they hit
the ground, and from their lips came a sound
like the deep booming of the bittern. Then
the women sang of the deeds of their fore-
fathers, when the men from New Georgia
swept down in big, m'at-sailed, high-prowed
war canoes hungry for the slaughter. That
was the signal for the men to show that they
were still b-i-g fellows. Encouraged by the
women, faster and ever faster went the
dancers, deeper grew the ooms, until at last
all sank exhausted on the sand.
Coopa called Rasu to him and then
beckoned to Pliss; as two children they stood
before the old chief.
“Rasu, son of Iaboo,” said the old man.
“much pig have you given me, and now I
give you my daughter who is good to look
upon, even as the daughters of the white
man. May she bear you many sons, strong
and brave as her father Coopa. Now we will
eat, for the dancers are Aveak from much
dancing.” And the wedding-party sat doAvn
to feast on pig and ’possuiq. yam and taro,
turtle, banana and cocoanut pudding.
* * * *
After the big dance was over Sutherland
and I went 'aboard, and the wind being
favorable we landed at Perara by sunrise.
Next day Sutherland was showing me
around the plantations “Come down here by
the swamp,” said he, “and I’ll show you the
prize pigs I’ve got. They’ll come in very useful
for labor rations when they breed up a bit.”
We. could not find a single porker.
Rasu had stolen and traded them all to
Coopa for the hand of Pliss.
WEE BOBBIE.


Take Arms
against the
SHEEP-FLY
and stop it!
“Prevention is better than cure”—that’s why crutching is miles
ahead of spraying and other temporary treatments for the
sheep-fly. Crutching may mean a little more work, but it
gets right to the seat of the trouble and is the surest pre-
ventive against the sheep-fly’s ravages.
let
To successfully fight the sheep-fly, which will be bad this season,
support be a
' S
your mam
Lister Portable Crutching Plant
The “LISTER” outfits meet every requirement in a crutching plant that has to stand
the racket of hard use. They are the result of a generation's experience of what
Australian conditions demand.
The vital parts of a Self-contained Shearing and Crutching Plant are the Shear, the
Bracket and the Engine. In these three essentials the “LISTER” outfits leave nothing
to be desired.
HANDPIECES are Lister ’ “S” with Patent Self-levelling Crown Plate. They are Australian-
designed and British built —no more need be said.
p<! wert' an °tber “Lister” Patent, and gives a smooth-as-velvet engagement with a
The ENGINE can be either a “Lister” or Fairbanks-Morse Type “Z”
their class.
-both are outstanding in
We can prove to you that you cannot afford to be without a “Lister” Plant if you’ll
only ask for further particulars.
Australian Agents:
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD.,
Young Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Agsnts:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD. - - - BRISBANE.
MITCHELL & CO. PTY., LTD. - - - MELBOURNE.
A. W. SANDFORD & C0 o LTD. - - - ADELAIDE.
MALLOCH BROS. - - PERTH.
V
Lister 2-stand
Portable Belt-
driven Outfit,
with 3-h.p.
Type “Z”
Engine.
.V
luster 3-stand
Portable Friction
Driven Outfit,
with 3-h.p
luster
Engine
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Sundown”: One of our finest timbers for
pick-handles, especially for underground use,
is the Victorian blue-gum ( E. globulus).
When the Rutherglen and Chiltern mines
were in full swing Simpson Bros, had a
plant which for many years supplied blue-
gum handles in large quantities. They gave
every satisfaction, standing the test of the wet
ground far better than the imported article,
and at a much lower price. The timber is
also hard to beat for general wheelwright
purposes, especially buggy and sulky shafts,
being equal, if not superior, to the much-
boomed imported hickory.
* * # *
“Broker”: A 1916 covenant granting
Portugal the exclusive right to the use of
the word “Port” as applied to wine in Britain
has proved a valuable document for Portugal.
The British agents of a Californian vineyard
were recently fined £3O and costs for offering
the Yankee goods as “Californian port wine,”
and other offenders are threatened with
trouble. The Australian product now goes
oversea as “Export Red.” One S. Aus. firm
is branding its wines “Solero” and “Glen
Para,” and there is no reason why those
names should not become as familiar as
“Oporto,” “Xerez,” or “Moselle.”
“Forester”: Professional wattle-barkers
either cut the tree down or do the ’possum act
up the butt. But cutting the trees down makes
a mess about the place, and climbing is a
slow and tough job. A Sorrell (Tas.) farmer
has introduced a light Bft. ladder. It has a
couple of curving hooks to hold it to the tree,
and makes the job a lot easier and safer. The
dodge was borrowed from the nor’-west
coast of the Speck, where they use a ladder
to cut the crowns out of the tree-ferns about
the paddocks.. That kills them, and in four
or five years’ time, when the trunks are good
and dry, you can set fire to them and burn
them clean up. Any dodge that makes it
easier to bark a wattle clean is worth having
just now, for good “black” bark is worth any-
thing from £8 10s. to £lO per ton, and even
the long-despised bark of the white wattle
(A. dealbata) is good for £6 a ton or so.
There are runs on the east coast of the Speck
where the bark is worth nearly as much, year
in and year out, as the wool.
* * * *
“Don Mac”: One time it was customary
for pearlers and beche-de-mer men to fill their
boats with female crews. When they were
forbidden to take women and young children,
they shipped boys- of 14 and upwards. That
was stopped, and next they started fishing
stations on various islands and sought to em-
ploy women there. That, too, was nipped in the
bud. Now the inland natives of Cape York
visit the western coastline of the Peninsula
at certain months of the year for the purpose
of prostituting their females to the crews of
the pearl-fishing fleets. The months generally
chosen are January-March, when vessels fre-
quent the neighborhood of Possession Island
and the vicinity to obtain shelter and over-
haul during the prevalence of the north-
western monsoon; also during the strength of
the north-east trades (June-August), when
they work along the western shores of the
Peninsula. The vessels engaged in this trade
are fairly numerous, and consist of ketches,
cutters and boats from 12 tons down to one ton.
Some of the masters of these little boats
kidnap the natives and work them for months.
In many cases when they had signed on
labor they returned to port with a story that
their “boys” had deserted or died, or fallen
overboard, and they sometimes managed to
pocket the wages due to the absentees. There
can be hardly any doubt that many unscru-
pulous owners of luggers in the fishing trade
deserted the boys or even threw them over-
board. But this murderous game is getting-
played out, too, and masters reporting “my-
sterious disappearances” have now to pay the
wages into a fund at Thursday Island or
Cooktown. It is significant that already
there are hundreds of pounds in that fund.
# * * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: A historic Syd-
ney corner, on which the Assembly Hotel
stands, is to go to the hammer. The land,
with frontages to Phillip and Hunter streets,
was originally part of a grant to J. T. Camp-
bell, a young man picked up by Lachlan
Macquarie at Cape Town and brought on
to Sydney as secretary. Campbell built his
humpy on the corner of Macquarie and
Hunter streets, and it was occupied in after
years by Roger Therry and then by Dr. J.
Cox and other eminent medical men.
On the iLunter-Phillip-street corner over a
century ago Mistress Jeannie Muckle had
a small store with a license to sell grog,
etc. Then came Henry Marr, who married
the widow of the pioneer, John Driver;
and Jojm’s eldest son, Richard, afterwards
a city councillor, opened there the Three
Tuns Tavern. Later Driver left the corner
and moved into King-street, taking the sign
with him, and the Hunter-Phillip-street house
became the Lord Nelson. Later one of the
Gannons had it, and named the place The
Sportsman’s Inn. For some years it was
used as a boarding-house; then in 1876 Mick
O’Neill, who had kept the Cornstalk Inn,
King-street West, re-opened it as The
Assembly Hotel, and made a pile.
* * * ■*
“Macquarie Street” on the virtues of
arsenic:—
Arsenic is the favorite poison of the criminally-
minded. Strychnine, by its tell-tale convulsions,
usually leads to the Coroner’s Court, and for this
reason has never become fashionable. The villain
or villainess may be bold enough to stake life and
liberty on a single throw. Such a person generally
decides to give a lethal dose of arsenic at the first
go-off. He trusts to luck and the inability of the
doctor to make a correct diagnosis. It may be not
difficult to bamboozle even a very shrewd medico
in cases of this kind, and the criminal will rely
upon the sawbones (who is usually brought in after
the irritant has had time to perform its deadly work)
calling two or three times and administering opium
in some form in a vain endeavor to mitigate the
violent gastro-entoritis set up. A certificate of death
from heart failure consequent upon the gastro-
intestinal inflammation can be reckoned upon in
most instances, as the doctor will have no just rea-
son to go poking about the garden looking for a
drum containing weed-killer, or seeking for hidden
tins of Rough on Rats in a cupboard. The adminis-
tration of arsenic, then, is in many cases safe from
detection. In addition it is a poison that meets the
eye of the criminally-disposed everywhere, as it is
left about the house in any old receptacle.
The criminal of another class may think himself
extremely subtle, or he may lack the requisite
courage to do ill deeds in a hurry. He wants time
to think the matter over. Or he may desire to gloat
over the continued suffering of his victim. In that
case he forsakes weed-killer and Rough on Rats as
beneath his notice, and with Satanic ingenuity elects
to give his victim powdered arsenic in various
articles of food, gradually increasing the doses over
a long period of time. There is usually a loved one
in the immediate vicinity who is in the know.
Eventually the administration of constantly-increas-
ing doses of arsenic leads to peripheral neuritis, and
after months of suffering the victim dies an awful
death. In such cases a shrewd physician searching
for a cause of the neuritis may hit upon the crime
and prevent its consummation.
In the latest Cold Country murder trial Greenwood,
the suspect, probably owes his liberty to the dread-
fully careless evidence of the doctor who attended
Mrs. Greenwood in her fatal illness. He had gone
out of business, and he bungled his evidence in an
incredible fashion. Anyhow, though a quarter of
a grain of arsenic was found in the body, the hus-
band was acquitted; and it is quite certain that if
the second wedding ceremony had not followed so
rapidly on the funeral, the original death certi-
ficate never would have been questioned.
Only one conclusion is possible from the facts.
Arsenic, instead of being one of the most easily
purchased of all poisons, should be made one of
the most difficult to procure; and the eye of the
police should rove occasionally over every chemist’s
register of the sale of poisons.
* * * *
“Te Babarantiko”: Summing up the sugar
position in Queensland, and referring in par-
ticular to the Cairns district, Harry
Easterby, General Superintendent of Sugar
Experiment Stations, states that “a large
estate” (presumably Green Hills) has in the
last four years lost 98,000 tons of cane
through grub infestation. In the present
season, out of an estimated crop of 12,000
tons, only about 4000 tons are for the same
reason fit for cutting. At 30s. per ton, which
price the Badila produced at Green Hills
would easilv fetch, the loss is noteworthy.
And it calls attention to the mandate against
grub- and beetle-collecting (the only reason-
ably effective method of control in sugar as
well as in cocoanut-growing) issued on the
advice of an American without first-hand ex-
perience of insect parasites .on Australian
sugar-cane. The gentleman gets £lOOO per
annum and perquisites. After three years
of abortive investigations and experiments,
principally at Green Hills, he has been re-
engaged for another year. At his instance
the beetle collectors have lost their income,
and the sugar-grower pays the piper in losses
due to increased grub-activity, while the
Commonwealth suffers from lessened output
of cane and increased importation of unre-
fined, nigger-grown sugar.
THE DIRGE OF THE DAMNED-TOO-LATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I was dead, I was damned, and my sad soul fell
Past the mournful eye of the last grey star,
For a dreadful voyage is the trip to Hell
Through the uttermost dark where the vague things
are;
And my soul was churned by the dizzy drop
Far worse than the lift at a draper’s store ;
And then, of a sudden, I came down flop
On the brimstone step which marks Hell’s door.
I was chilled with the cold, I was frozen numb ;
I almost longed to begin to burn,
But the portals of Hell loomed tall and glum
And frowned upon me in a manner stern ;
On the hot asbestos I beat aloud
Crying: “Here am I who must toast within;
Add another mug to the roasting crowd,
For I claim my place in the Pub of Sin!’’
So I waited there for the pit to gape,
But the door was shut in my sinful face;
Then I heard a flop and I saw a shape
Stood beside me there in that noisome place.
Hard the new soul beat on the gates of doom,
And he swore great oaths at the long delay;
As his rich speech flared in the murky gloom
I found we were part of a great array.
Quite a thousand souls waited there with me,
And they kept on tumbling down like rain;
They were sturdy sinners with manners free,
And they beat on the portals with might and main
Till the whole wall trembled beneath their blows;
Then we heard the sounds of the great bolts drawn,
And the frenzied glory of Hell arose
Through the open gate like a drunken dawn.
A magnificent fiend with stoking damp
Stepped swift through the gate, which he closed
with care;
As he scanned our ranks with his fork for lamp
He looked upon us with an angry stare.
“Now what in the devil does all this mean?”
He astked, and his feelings were plainly shocked,
“Why, henv dare you vent on our gate your . pleen
Just because you find that the way is blocked?”
Then we felt abashed, but a bookie spoke.
He pleaded our cause in a manner neat;
“Whoa, steady!” he cried, “be a decent bloke,
And remember now ’tis your guests you greet—
We’re the damned, the lost, we have come to Hell
For punishment in your master’s flame.
We expected brimstone, we don’t mind smell,
But to treat us thus is a crying shame!”
Then the dev|l scowled, but he answered naught,
He turned c*n his heel and he sprang inside,
And he closed the door while we strove and fought;
Thus an entrance there was to us denied.
As a grille swung back in the heavy gate
Our devil peered out with a nasty eye,
And he cried: “Fool souls, you are much too late—
You delayed too long ere you came to die!
“With the profiteers every hob is full,
And the cost of living has gone so high
That the Old Man’s roaring , like any bull
The coals are so dear that we cannot buy—
Not another guest may we entertain
Till the estimates are increased by half! ”
Slow he closed the grille in his prim disdain,
And we poor damned heard all the Fat Men laugh.
VICTORIA.
DALE GOLLINS.


FITTINGS
BUILD THE PERFECT BICYCLE.
TRADEMARKS
B.S.A.
THOROUGHLY
BRITISH.
WHEN the experienced cycle rider sees the
famous “ Three piled rifles ” trade mark of
the B.S.A. Fittings, he knows that at the back
of that particular bicycle are the experience and skill
of years in the production of high-grade cycles.
The choice of a Bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings
is a matter of business, the economy, reliability and
freedom from trouble making the purchase of B.S.A.
a sound investment which will never be regretted.
Regular B.S.A. Riders say there is nothing to equal
the satisfaction of the service which underlies the
transfer of the “ Three piled rifles.”
The range of models and constructional improve-
ments shown in the B.S.A. Catalogue will illustrate
why the Bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings holds the
predominant position in the cycling world.
r
'
SSS»
0
B.S.A. Fittings are
Guaranteed Interchangeable.
Exact replacements of any part can be
obtained. Don’t be put off with “pattern
fittings,” but look for the B.S.A. Trade
Marks on EVERY PART. They are
your guarantee.
Send for B.S.A. Handbook
i
free from
D. Y. RENNIE,
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS,
MELBOURNE.


Use Cocoanut Oil
For Washing Hair.
Girls and women who wish to keep their
hair in nice condition should be most cautious
in the soap they v/ash it with. Most
soaps and, ready-mired shampoos contain
excessive quantities of alkali. This dries
the scalp, makes the hair brittle and is very
injurious. Just ordinary colinated cocoanut
oil (a pure, saponified but quite greaseless
liquid) is far better than the most costly
soap you could possibly use for a shampoo,
for this cannot possibly hurt your hair.
Merely wet your hair with water and rub it
on. A couple of teaspoonsful makes a perfect
flood of rich, thick, creamy lather, and
cleanses both hair and scalp thoroughly. The
lather rinses out easily, and takes with it
every trace of dust, dirt, dandruff or excessive
oiliness. The hair dries quickly and evenly,
and comes out fine and silky, bright, gloss'y
and fluffy, appearing to be heavier than it is.
And, best of all, this colinated cocoanut oil
leaver the hair as easy to dress again as
though you hadn’t washed it at all. You can
get colinated cocoanut oil at most any chemist,
but be sure it’s “colinated,” which is not
expensive—a few ounces lasting a long, long
time.
IMPORTANT: Do not confuse colinated cocoanut
oil with cheaper sticky, emulsified cocoanut oils
or other substitutes. There is only one genuine
colinated oil, as recommended above.
PAIN VANISHES! CORNS LIFT OUT
AFTER FEW DROPS.
Let To-day’s Corn Pain be Your Last Corn Pain.
Lift Any Corn or Callous Out with Finger-tips.
Wonderful! Girls! Save it a Corner on Dressing-stand.
s3© bunkum! No bother! Corns,
callouses—hard or soft—soro or
sensitive—all yield and loosen
and lift off—absolutely pain-
lessly.
This newly-found com-
pound is named Frozol-
Icp, and is still another
use of that great 1 medi-
cal discovery “ether.”
Stop at any chemist’s for
a little bottle of Frozol-Ice,
costing but a trifle, but which is ample
to free the feet from each and every
corn and callous.
Apply some drops on to a delicate
corn or callous. Like a Hash the soreness
vanishes, and soon the corn or callous peels
right off with the finger-tips.
Frozol-Ice is absolutely non-irritant, doesn’t
even inflame the surrounding healthy flesh.
Just fancy! No agony at all, no sting or sore-
ness while using, or afterwards, simply a
shriveUing drying, up of corns and callouses.
* ™ a corner on your dressing-
table for Frozol-Ice, and never be the “wall-
flower of the ballroom again. Just some
drops of Frozol-Ice when corns begin aching
Pain disappears—corn dies!
. True Frozol-Ice’ is flattered by worthless
imitations. Avoid them by insisting on thf
green label.
If Favorite Foods
Upset Stomach
Take Magnesia.
If some of the foods you like best do not
agree with you and make your stomach sour
or burn, producing acid indigestion, do not
think you must give up eating these good
things, and do not, either, make the mistake
of swallowing pepsin pills or soda water after
every meal. Instead just mdlce a practice of
taking a teaspoonful of pure Salix Magnesia
in half a glass of hot water right after
The hot water will force a needed blood
supply to your stomach, and the Salix Mag-
nesia will instantly neutralise any excess of
stomach acid, and your digestion will be
natural and painless. Salix Magnesia is not
a laxative, and its continued use is entirely
harmless, as it never weakens natural diees-
tion. It can be obtained at any well-stocked
chemist’s shop (in powder or compressed tab
lets form) Be sure to get Salix Magnesia Do
",I e ° ther f ° rms of ma gnesia for this
Canvas Town: How Melbourne
Solved Its First Great Housing
Problem.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I AM surprised that the Oldest Inhabitant
has not long since taken up his pen to
correct a ridiculous error. The pre-
sent difficulty of housing the people of Mel-
bourne, acute as it is, stands as a compara-
tively trifling public grievance alongside the
city’s first great house-famine, a most in-
teresting episode in its history. The scar-
city of roof-trees to-day is not so marked
that it is necessary for whole families to
sleep in the open; not here and there a
family, but families by the hundred. To-
day, no doubt, there is a strain on the
accommodation that hotels and boarding-
houses afford, but not so severe as to urge
a proprietor to lease his benches to piteous
applicants for sleeping-room. Nor ijs it
necessary for hirelings to tip up the dining-
tables and shake w T eary slumberers off on
to the floor before the breakfast can be laid.
Yet a condition far more severe than that
existed in Melbourne in the last months
of 1852 and the early months of 1853, when
no less than 40 first-class ships—one of
them the Great Britain, with accommoda-
tion for 1000 passengers, and overcrowded
at that- —poured 15,000 people into Mel-
bourne within 14 days. In September,
October, November and December of 1852
there were over 62,000 arrivals by sea
alone, and during the following year some-
thing like the same average was maintained.
This Niagara was tumbled down upon a
town already congested. Local people who
had rushed to the goldfields on the first out-
break at Ballarat, Climes, Bendigo and
Mount Alexander had not all bottomed on
nuggets, and the luckless ones came troop-
ing back to their businesses, realising that
gold was now to be picked up in trade with
greater ease and certainty. Melbourne had
been half-empty; unoccupied houses had
been gaping all over the place. These soon
refilled, and by the time the goldseekers
from abroad were driven helter-skelter over
the sides of the swarming ships in the bay,
the Victorian capital was again full to over-
flowing, and houses were not procurable fob
love or money. Bricklayers were as
scarce as bishops, bricks were from £lO to
£l5 a thousand, and to assure that a large,
proportion of the newcomers remained in the
town cartage to Bendigo ran up as high
as £l6O per ton —over 30s. per ton per mile.
The newcomers continued to jostle each
other on the wharves and piers, many of
them robbed of the little ready money they
had possessed by the exorbitant landing
expenses. Deluded immigrants were charged
as much to be conveyed from ship to shore
—including the nine miles up the Yarra —
as the whole trip from England had cost.
In 16 months 150,000 came helter-skelter
into a town where some 25,000 inhabitants
had been indifferently accommodated.
The first great rush of people was held
up in the metropolis by the conditions men-
tioned, and by reason of the fact that heavy
rains in March and April of 1853 served
to make the mud roads to the diggings prac-
tically impassable. The women among the
immigrants averaged about five to the
hundred, and some of the venturesome gold-
seekers had been daring enough to bring
families, with a confident belief that in a
country where it was easy to pick up nuggets
Heaven would provide.
>' At first the confusion was indescribable.
Rows of men were to be seen sleeping under
blankets and horse-rugs on the Yarra banks,
while here and there a hapless man with a
family sought to give his brood the advant-
age of some poor privacy by erecting a cover
of boughs. Boarders literally swarmed in
the hotels and boarding-houses, sleeping in
the houses, on them (where two gables
offered the opportunity of spreading a tar-
paulin over the bunks), and even under them
if they were built high enough. And they
often were, for this was at a time when
“Another Child Drowned in the Streets of
Melbourne!” was not an infrequent head-
line in the local press, and it was advisable
to lift your house well out of the slush.
Then began the erection of Canvas Town.
Canvas Town was started to meet the cry-
ing need for cover. It was situated just
over the river, and it spread up the slopes
of Emerald Hill, a name by which South
Melbourne was known up to 30 years ago,
long after it was notably green, and when
it had quite lost claim to consideration as
, a hill. Canvas Town was composed entirely
of tents. Fortunately the enormous demand
for tents on the fields had produced a huge
supply in Melbourne, and now every new-
comer who could afford an eight by ten, or,
if extravagant, a 10 by 12, bought one, and
rigged it on Emerald Hill. The Government
charged a rental of five shillings a week, and
reaped the rich harvest of its parsimony.
In incredibly brief time street after street
was formed till a wide-spread city of new
tents, glowing snow-w T hite on the hillside,
stretched almost to where the South Mel-
bourne Town Hall now stands, and extended
left and right to the Port Melbourne border,
and to the foot of the rise on which Govern-
ment House was subsequently built.
Here was a seething hive of people, sleep-
ing in small tents, but conducting most of
their household duties in the open, in Regent-
street and Piccadilly, in the Strand, Oxford-
street and Threadneedle-street; for the new-
chums, responding to the comedy spirit
which was abroad in the land, had named
the lanes between their rows of dwellings
after the more important thoroughfares of
the great metropolis so many of them had
just forsaken. Most of the inhabitants were
bachelors or grass-widowers; but there
were families, too, and it was no uncommon
thing to see a hefty dame over a street fire,
with a pan in her hand, frying a great steak
or plunged almost to her shoulders in the
suds of a tub, doing the family washing out-
side the front door in Regent-street. A
relative of my own, describing a Sunday
morning’s walk through Canvas Town, tells
of coming upon one stout, red-headed, red-
faced Irishwoman composedly sousing two
of her offspring in a prospector’s tub in the
heart of Piccadilly, and drying them osten-
tatiously on her husband’s shirt, at the same
time meeting the raillery of wayfarers with
a loud and ready tongue. “Truth, I don’t
wonder ye all stare,” cried she. “Devil a
man of ye washes himself more in a year
than a Mayo cat will.” Baths were not
popular in Canvas Town. The river was
convenient for a sluice, and a sluice had
to serve. There were stores, and boarding-
houses, and sly-grogshops, but no Turkish
baths. Stores and boarding-houses were all of
canvas, many of them gaily pranked with
colored streamers and red flags, and with
leather-lunged touts before the doors, crying
the advantages of the establishments, each
of which was quaintly named after some
celebrated London house.
But the impression the wayfarer got of
Canvas Town was of a selling community,
not an aggregation of buyers. Their
misfortunes, and the exactions of every one
with whom they had had dealings, had left
the unfortunate “peasoupers” badly off, and
those who had brought family treasures with
them were anxious to dispose of them for
whatever they would bring. One tent even
exposed a cottage-piano for sale, the last
thing one would dream of seeking in Canvas'
Town. At another the flap of the tent was
lifted, exposing a four-poster bed so flfling
the tent that the latter was actually rigged
on it. The foot of the bed bore the familiar
legend: “For Sale.” In front of another
tent stood a large barrel branded “Marbels,
Ninepence a Pint,” much as if marbles were
a popular drink. The barrel was full of
boys’ alleys, in which lay a pint-mug. The
owner was a man of business instincts who,
finding himself on the eve of leaving for a
strange new land, had thought it advisable
to bear with hirq# some merchandise whereby
an honest penny might be turned, and,
prompted surely by the chief Spirit of Mis-
chief. had invested in a barrel of marbles
to sell in perhaps the one British community
under Heaven where nobody wanted marbles.
All necessaries were exorbitantly dear,
and superfluities, however beloved, had to go.
Meat had been l|d. a pound. It was now
Bd., considered an appalling price at this
time. Bread was dear, and vegetables un-
procurable to the masses in Canvas Town.
At almost every tent was an eager seller
with some article to offer, and as many had
brought family relics with them, choice
articles of jewellery, old silver and rare
antiques were sold for a song. A dolorous
would-be digger offered the portrait of his
grandfather in oils by an eminent artist for
five pounds, a woman bearing some traces of
refinement sought to sell her best hat and
a Paisley shawl; and there was even a
spanking baby-boy of 19 months, sitting
out of doors in a roughly-made chair bear-
ing the legend: “Will Kind Person Adopt?”
There were two smaller canvas towns in
the centre of the city, one where the Eastern
Market now stands. These degenerated into
fairs, where goods, the property of impecuni-
ous immigrants, were thrust under the noses
of passers-by. The “Rag Fair” was in
Flinders-street, on the site of the present
Customs House. There was scarcely an
article in ordinary use that was not
exposed here, labelled “For Sale,” the vendor
standing over his goods, or eagerly offering
an umbrella, a gold watch, a gun, a coat, a
hat or a shirt, possibly his last, hoping to
get the _ few sJLiillings more necessary to
enable him to make a start for one or
another of the many Eldorados booming at
Bendigo, Clunes, Ballarat and Castlemaine.
Canvas Town soon degenerated. The
tents lost their newness, the spick-and-span
appearance passed, the homes fell into dis-
repair, became ragged and black, and the
inhabitants seemed to degenerate with them.
The promiscuous living was not conducive
to morality. Considerations of common
respectability were forgotten; Regent-street,
Oxford-street and' Ilolborn became muddy
quagmires in the wet weather, and beds of
deep dust in the heat. Squalor reigned, and
crime crept in. Canvas Town was a cover
for the criminals who nightly held up. citi-
zens on St. Ivilda-road. Once it was the
chief constable, but more often diggers back
from the fields with gold were the victims
of the Vandemonian escapees who had taken
refuge in the calico suburb. Then the Gov-
ernment swept it from the face of the earth,
though it was not till 1864 that Melbourne
saw the last of it.
EDWARD DYSON.
As a Man Sows. '
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LEVERAGE was aware of a dark lagoon
reflecting a distant belt of trees
against a twilight sky.
He had never seen the place before, yet
it had a certain familiarity. Only the
Islands could show such a wide expanse of
placid water. It was they all right. While
he had been ill, he and Mrs. Leverage had
often talked of the great holiday they were
going to have there as soon as he was strong
enough to travel.
And now,' apparently, he was so well on
the road to recovery that he had actually
got as far as these very islands which they
had talked and dreamed about. Yet it was
strange that he remembered nothing of the
journey. His last memory was of being
very sick indeed —so sick that when Mrs.
Leverage tried to cheOr him up with pros-
pects of the good times that were in store
for them, there were tears in her eyes and
in her voice, as if she doubted that her
dream would ever come true. All their
twenty years of married life they had been
very good friends indeed. They had early
recognised their temperamental differences,
and Mrs. Leverage had settled down to her
housekeeping and the rearing of her two
children, while her husband made a bit of
money and got the reputation of being
rather a gay dog who took his fun where
he found it and was liked by everybody.
Hale and hearty and looking younger than
his years he had never had a day’s illness
until he was fifty; and then the ’flu laid
him on the broad of his back and gave him
a terrible doing. He knew the risk he was
running: big and rather over-weight, his
heart was not so fit as it ought to have
been. But it didn’t matter much. Better
men than he had gone under to it, and,
taking it all round, life had been rather
pleasant. He would leave his family com-
fortable, and his wife would have no worry
whatever. All the same, he had a few
twinges of conscience when he thought of
how he had in a way neglected her; for she
had always been very patient with him, and
now was nursing him with the utmost tender-
ness. He swore to make it up to her wFen
he got well, and that was how the Island
trip was mooted. And here they were!
Strange and more than strange that he
couldn’t remember how they had done it!
But they had. These feathery palms fring-
ing the beach could only grow in favored
regions. He would ask her. She was just
at his elbow; he could hear her soft breath-
ing.
As he turned, a tall, fair-haired woman met
him with outstretched arms.
“Blanche !” he gasped.
“Yes, dearest. You know I promised to
wait for you. We always believed in a
place like this —
A world with only you and I
To watch the last of sunset’s glow.”
There was something which he ought to
remember and couldn’t. It was so long
since he had seen Blanche. She had been
one of the first of his “friends,” while he was
still comparatively young and more than
comparatively poor. They had both had
many and great enthusiasms. There had
been an agreement—something about meet-
ing again somewhere; but he had forgotten
the details. What did it matter now? —
everything was quite all right!
Their lips had almost met when a wind
blew strong in his face as the car sped
along the grey road. In and out it wound
between the big trees that stood on either
side like friendly sentinels. He knew the
road well; and the car, his own old liuon,
was good for GO an hour if he cared to let her
go on a good road. Even here, in the starlit
dark, she was averaging 20; for there was
Thompson’s corner, and it was not 11 o’clock
yet.
Red-lipped little Cora snuggled beside
him, her dark eyes closed in ecstasy and her
warm blood flushing her smooth cheeks. At
last! Risking everything and throwing
prudence to the winds they were out to find
their own happiness in their own way. He
laughed aloud in his triumph and slipped
into a higher gear. Cora clapped her hands
and stamped her feet in the exuberance of
her joy.
Eight more miles to the cottage.
He turned to look at her and she pouted
her lips defiantly at him, the point of a
pert tongue peeping piquantly between them.
He dared not stoop to the kiss, for the road
was none too smooth and the corners sharp
and frequent. Rut only six more miles.
And then!
She read his thoughts and drew the collar
of her sable coat round her face until only
her eyes were visible, flashing like diamonds
in the-cold light of the stars.
Four miles! One mile —there was the
light at the end of the road !
Presently he wheeled through the gate,
and a man moved out of the shadow and
opened the door of the car. Cora hopped
out and Leverage gathered the suit-cases and
followed her to where a light showed dimly
in an open doorway. Quite an unpretentious
little place, but he knew it to be stored
with endless untasted joys. There were
bottles of wine and parcels of dainties in
the swag. How daintily her white teeth
nibbled chicken sandwiches! How prettily
she clapped her hands over her ears when
the corks popped! How sweet she would
look presently with her curly black hair
clustering at the nape of her white neck!
He followed her up the steep narrow stairs
already odorous with her favorite perfume,
watching in the half-dark the undulating
curves of her lithe body. With a little
laugh she turned in at a door and—closed
it in his face, as the stairhead stretched in-
definitely and became a terrace overlooking
a moonlit beach where a summer tide had
ebbed and now broke in phosphorescent rip-
ples as if unseen hands were scattering
brilliants.
The bi'oad balcony was demurely lit;
opportune screens and heavy-foliaged shrubs
gave a sufficient privacy. He sat near the
rail and watched the people passing below —
men whom he knew well and women whom
he had known better. Some greeted him
noisily, others only smiled or waved a
friendly hand. It was a strange, a rather
sad procession that drifted slowly by. The
upturned faces expressed a hope that hovered
between happiness and despair. Mary
watched them also, rather disdainfully, smil-
ing half in pride that she had won him, half
in contempt that so many had held him
before her. She crossed her knees and
swung a smartly-shod foot, a coquetry that
never failed to claim his attention. He
noted the gleam of the silk-clad ankle and
traced the curve of the limb through tne
shimmering folds of the diaphanous gown.
With a quick, petulant laugh she leant for-
ward and lifted her wineglass to clink with
his as they emptied them to an unspoken
toast.
Somewhere a clock boomed solemnly.
Mary shivered as she rose, and Leverage
adjusted her wrap around her white shoul-
ders, stooping to whisper a word in her ear.
But the smooth brown hair turned to auburn
ringlets and Mina met his gaze with happy
laughter.
About them were wide flowering gardens.
Porticoed palaces nestled among massed
foliage of unusual shape and color. Tan
paths were traced On shaven lawns. Clipped
hedges, and trees trimmed like teetotums;
fountains playing in marble basins ; peacocks
strutting; white painted pergolas, and arbors
built in unexpected corners. \
The Italian garden which they had pic-
tured one golden week-end on the Hawkes-
bury!
Opportunity had never been given them
to become sated with each other. Surelj
here, in this grand realisation of all their
dreams, they would experience a long succes-
sion of perfect days.
He drew her towards him.
“Not yet,” she whispered, “not yet, best-
beloved !”
“Why not?” he protested. “Let us
live”-
“Impossible! Can it be that you do not
know that we are dead?”
“Dead!” he cried, kneeling at her feet.
‘Then this must be Heaven.”
She vanished in a swirl of grey mist, and
only the echo of her voice sobbed: ’“No,
best-beloved, not Heaven. This is Hell.”
D. H. SOUTER.


p
k’f:
&
&
m
m
U
v
I
111
*■*
S$S
rtcp.
-:
3M*?|
• ; :
SIC
&<A
THERE £■ BACK
BOOMERANG TYRES


“Watch for the Sign from the Leeuwin to the Line.
9 9
IfThe waters of the mighty ocean that
gird our island continent—that keep
us as a place apart from the outside
world —are the only boundaries to the
rapidly-expanding and magnificent
structure of UNION THEATRES
LTD., which, like a boat feeling the
pull of the Tide of Success beneath it,
tugs and strains at its moorings, only
waiting for the psychological moment
to go forth to conquer fields anew.
TfThe ramifications of the firm are not
confined to />ne city, or one group of
towns, nor yet to one State —they are
National.
IfTheir eighty theatres, under the one
banner throughout the Cities of the
Commonwealth, are but the nucleus of
the superb structure of organisation
and entertainment which the great
Australian Moving-Picture-loving pub-
lic will have within their reach in
every centre of new development.
IfWatch for the UNION THEATRE
SIGN in your centre, for it presages
the coming of the superlative screen
entertainment.
UNION THEATRES ALL-AUSTRALIAN CIRCUIT.
Sydney.. Melbourne., Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Tasmania and throughout the Commonwealth.
Managing Directors: Edwin Geach, W. A. Gibson, Stuart F. Doyle.
[Member M.P.A.A.]
5X
The Sign of CMlitn
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Mikado”
Criterion “The Girl in the Taxi”
Palace - “Penelope”
Tivoli “The Girl for the Boy”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Town Hall (27th) Conan Doyle
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Boy”
Royal Lowell Thomas
King’s “Shore Acres”
Tivoli “Maggie”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Mei.ba Moving Pictures
• Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciarium Dancing
♦
In the Dark Ages the romantic caveman
was wont to woo the maiden of his affec-
tions with a stone axe; Hop’s and Minns’s
abos. use the mediaeval nulla-nulla; and now,
to bring the process right down to date, the
20th century method i§ shown in “At the
Barn” (.Sydney Palace). You live in a
remote barn out of sight of the main road,
paint “Private” on the gate so that a stray
actress, waiting for her car to be repaired,
will naturally enter and make herself at
home. Having discovered her, you impress
upon her that she is an unnecessary inter-
ruption and order her off the premises. She,
of course, then decides to stay for a fort-
night. . Whereupon you blackguard her for
three acts. Finally, when she is quite satis-
fied that she would be better off on the
steam yacht with the bad, bold Earl who
is waiting for her, you lock the Earl up in
the garage, insult her some more, and she
proposes. It is perfectly simple.
* «• * *
Yet “At the Barn” is a disappointment.
The plot rushes on with the velocity of a
Switzerland glacier, which has been known
to dash down a mountain slope at the rate of
four feet a day. The humor of it (“The
Barn” is a comedy in three acts) is insuffi-
cient to give Marie Tempest a fair chance,
for she is more at home in comedy than
drama, and she must rely on such a thing
as the manner in which she eats a sand-
wich to hold the house. From the point of
view of acting the show is a success—-what
else could it be with Marie Tempest and
Graham Browne in the leads? —but if the
cash-box is ever full the actors and not the
author will be responsible. “Penelope” will
come in on Saturday. She is more than a
fair substitute.
** * *
To-morrow (Friday) night “Irene,” the
Sydney Criterion record-breaker, moves out
and “The Girl in the Taxi” gets, ready to
wind her up and dash away 24 hours later.
Dorothy Brunton, who has grown prettier
and daintier than ever, is the Girl, and there
is a strong supporting company.
* * %
Letty. will say her final So Long at Syd-
ney Majesty’s to-morrow night, and on Satur-
day, in spite of threatened police raids for
tuen gow and missing flappers, “The Mikado”
will commence operations on behalf of Gilbert
and Sullivan.
=1: * * *
To satisfy the curiosity of that all-con-
quering warrior the great General Public,
Conan Doyle will give
a farewell lecture at
Sydney Town Hall on
Saturday afternoon
before he leaves for
Maoriland. He will
show more of his
psychic pictures and
tell what they stand
for, as well as dis-
coursing at length on
spiritualism. For 2s.
a front seat can be
had, and for an extra
shilling it can be
booked at Cole’s.
v
At Saturday night’s
Orchestral Concert at
Sydney Town Hall,
Dorothy Gibbes, pupil
of Myrtle Meggy, and
a candidate * for the(
Conservatorium pro-
fessional diploma, was
the solo pianist in
Cesar Franck’s Sym-
phonic Variations.
The tall, fair, white-
clad Dorothy served
the quiet beauty .off
the Variations to la
turn, and worked up
to the climax in great
style. Amy Castles,
in black velvet and
dimpled arms, was in
seductive voice in the
Rossini number, and.
later on suffered a
LOWELL
THOMAS,
at Melbourne
Royal.
boisterous recall for her .singing of “Vissi
d Arte.” With the orchestra Beethoven
held pride of place, with a slice of Wagner
in between.
Sydney Tivoli still has “The Girl for the
Boy,” and the girl who has acquired a
boy is taking him to the Tiv. —principally
to see what the other cat is wearing—in
large quantities.
* * * *
At Sydney Crystal Palace and the Lyceum
Norma Talmadge breaks into an opium-den,
and under John Chinaman’s very nose
smashes up his stock-in-trade. Of course
it is to save a man —her good friend. Then
her best boy gets wild and threatens to
leave her all alone, but the end is the kiss
of reconciliation. “The Woman Gives” is
the story’s name. “Hobbs in a Hurry” sup-
ports Norma on the silver . sheet of the
Lyceum. At the Crystal Palace Madge Ken-
nedy concocts a face lotion and tries it on
the elephant, with the result that the faith-
ful animal collapses: but the beak before
whom the S.P.C.A. drags her sees her smile,
and brings in a verdict of wilful ingratitude
against Ivory Tusk. At the Glove and Hay-
market Enid Bennett peeps through a wed-
ding-ring and finds out “What Every Wonian
Learns”—not to marry a man who is per-
petually cheerful (he’ll make a bad hus-
band), but to back steady old sobersides,
who’ll pay a regular dividend of affection and
reverence. The Strand serves “Wild Honey”
and “The Blooming Angel,” and Hoyt’s
depicts Ann Cornwall as “The Girl in the
Rain.”
Lowell Thomas has arrived at Melbourne
Royal with various details of the late war
in Palestine and Arabia. Lowell pours most
of his yarn through his nose, and further
evidence of his nationality is revealed in
the gags that produce refined laughter at
appropriate intervals. The Yank’s sense
of humor, however, is not very alarming,
whilst his crisp and easy narrative is often
a mere reflection of the official point of view T .
Travelling over the field of war in a British
battleplane, he evidently saw the trouble
with a Brass Hat’s eye, and missed all the
lusty human features from Trooper Bill-
jim’s angle of vision. Anyhow, there is little
of Billjim in Thomas’s tale, but a lot of
General Allenby and other leaders, mixed
up with topographical sundries, Scriptural
references and Cook’s tourist matter. The
best chapter of the “talk” deals with the
uprising of Arabia and the part played
therein by Colonel Lawrence, who is alleged
to have raised 200,000 Bedouins to send
Abdul scuttling back to the Bosphorus—
though the Digger has another story to tell
about that, too. The lecture is prefaced with
incense and is illustrated with lantern slides
and cinema films. The films are good.
* * sk *
John D. O’Hara continues 1?o dominate the
situation in “Shore Acres” at Melbourne
King’s. Frederick Esmelton may rave and
his missus (Margaret Sutcliffe) tear her
language to tatters, but O’Hara holds the
stage with his beauteous personality. Whether
moaning of his muvver’s grave or converting
the land-agent who talks fleece and ill-will to
his demented brother, the actor has the moral
effect of a thousand Horner Penny stories.
Probably the greatest feature of his success
is his voice; which shames evildoers to tears
with its golden-syrupy tone and seraphic
good nature.
* * *
The dirty night in Bohemia pictured in
“The Boy” has found greater scope on the
larger stage of Melbourne Majesty’s. Lance
Lister remains the leader of the riot, and
his efforts to amuse his giddy dad continue
to result in a sore head and a vanished
memory on the morning after. Meantime
Stigant, Gladys Moncrieff and Maude Fane
are as cheerful as before, but the smile
of Nell Payne is still kept in concealment by
the necessity of playing a flapper with a
hard, jealous heart.
After Saturday “Maggie” will be no more
at Melbourne Tivoli. The theatre is to be
closed for a fortnight so that the manage-
ment may devote an undisturbed intellect to
gigantic preparations for “Chu Chin Chow.”
* * * *
Wirths’ Circus is also getting ready to
leave the old pitch at Wirths’ Park, Mel-
bourne. At the beginning of next week
Upside-Down Wright and all the other mar-
vels will fade away for another 12 months.
* * * *
George Beban heads the Melbourne
Majestic menu this week as a soft-headed
Italian bereft of his only cheild by a motor
accident. The film is entitled “An Alien,”
and barring the accident aforesaid contains
nothing more exciting than the star’s bathetic
behavior as the bereaved parent. “The
Inner Voice,” featuring E. K. Lincoln and
Agnes Ayres, follows a much-travelled route,
hut the work and good looks of the lady
make some amends for the foolishness of the
story. Hoyt’s main attraction is “Ship-
wrecked Among Cannibals,” an allegedly
authentic film of wild life on an island off
New Guinea. A Western American shriek,
“Twins of Suffering Creek,” is also on the
Hoyt list, along with “Burnt Wings,” a pas-
sionate tale of what happened to a painter
cast among a number of devoted females.
At the Britannia Clara Kimball Young is
still engaged in “The Eyes of Youth,” but
at the Melba William Collier has come in as
a comic butler in “The Servant Question.”
The plot is rather old-fashioned, but Col-
lier’s comedy is first-class.
Of a versatile artist’s latest medium:—
Norman Lindsay shows the increasing delicacy of
his needle in a number of new etchings at the Fine
Art Society’s gallery in Melbourne. In two or three
prints of characteristic females he confines himself
to curving outlines, giving a mere map of a goddess
that attracts one by the dexterity of the drawing.
The handling of diaphanous fabrics, quaint jewels
and barbaric head-dresses supplies further evidence
of the artist’s control over his new medium, but he
also attacks bolder problems, -achieving in “The
Terrace,” for instance, a Vierge-like perfection of
light and shade. Pictorially the best of the present
“SO LONG, LETTY,” AT SYDNEY
HER MAJESTY'S.
George Willoughby and Field Fisher as the
discontented husbands who change wives
and are still discontented.
set is “Beauty’s Fortune,” notable for the fine
modelling of the damsels who are leaning over the
hag in the foreground. In “Madame Mystery” the
artist cleverly dramatises the leer with which the
assembled Nuts appraise the masked Venus who has
captured their attention. “From the Moon” is full
of fancy and movement, and “Good Night” has a
hint of delirium, but repose is restored in such excel-
lent studies as “The Lady and the Parrot,” “Obla-
tion,” “Toilet” and “Julia’s Monkey.” The last
mentioned is an old friend making a reappearance,
but it is worth another inspection for the brilliantly-
illustrated languor of the lady with the mischievous
monkey squatting on her chest.
* * # ■ *
A bright Adelaide show was “The Boudoir
Cap,” by Edith Aird, a clever local press-
woman. It is a brilliant trifle of jealousy
among two couples really happily married.
The construction is fair, the dialogue witty,
the acting various. The author herself shone
as a Mary Ann lacking in education but
full of Sherlock Holmes instincts. The
Prince of Wales’ saw a large audience for
this piece, which might be worth taking up
for professional rendering. The brilliant
Barrymore is on the screen at Wonder-
graph, with his Jekyll and Hyde impersona-
tion —into which the American producers
have pushed an un-Stevensonian feminine
interest. Philip Newbury has been singing
finely at this house. West’s is mostly horse
and bush, with the jolly “Man from Snowy
River,” and the Pav. is horse without bush
in a Nat Gould drama that puts Poppy
Wyndham into a racing saddle. The Royal
also marks time contentedly with Olive
Thomas and “Piccadilly Jim.”
*1- "r •»'
From an Adelaide critic: —
Miss Marie Tuck has not given her latest picture
exhibition a fair chance. It is at the top of a
little-known building in an out-of-the-way place;
also the exhibitor has shown too much. It is
strange that a painter with her Paris honors and
long experience should be content with such slap-
dash work as some of this. Her French interiors
are far and away the best pictures. The lady has
pluck, and crowds dozens of figures into a canvas,
from Biblical scenes to a shearing-shed, while most
of her local rivals are afraid to venture on a com-
petition of more than one figure. She sees abund-
ant color everywhere, from gum scrub to Adelaide
streets —which she renders mostly in an unaccus-
tomed . rainy atmosphere But a stern hanging
committee would have been her best friend.
“Harrison O.” (London) : When the last
puff par lias been written and the last press-
agent’s lie told, the plain, unvarnished fact
will remain that for his performance as Dad
in “On Our Selection” Bert Bailey received
from the London dramatic critics the sort of
praise that any actor in England would be
pleased to receive and that very few of them
get. The critics called the play “crude farce”
and were lukewarm about the majority of the
players, but when it came to dealing with
Bailey practically all of them used the most
adulatory adjectives in their vocabularies.
Yet for years in Australia, before Bailey went
into management, the Firm was importing
alleged “character” actors from England and
the U.S. on the ground that there was no
local talent available that came up to its
lofty requirements. If any “character”
actor —Cyril Maude included —imported to
Australia in the last ten years can show
better London press notices than those given
Bailey I would like to see them. Also the
kinema critics here, who for months have
been sneering and railing at one piffling film
after another for which absurd prices had
been paid to Yankee producers, altered their
tune when “The Sentimental Bloke” was
screened privately at the Alhambra. The
Daily Mail reckoned that it was one of the
two “greatest pictures ever produced in the
British Empire,” and most of the other
papers were similarly enthusiastic.
Randolph Bedford writes :
I want to dissociate myself from the Poverty
Point par. (B. 11/11/’2O) headed “Rann D.” This
might be taken as a nom de plume of mine, and
I’m not out to run down another man’s work as a
means of boosting my own.
Mr. “Stargazer” Says (B. 4/11/’2O) “The Boss
Coelde” isn’t drama. I didn’t say it was. It’s
labelled “Comedy,” and it’s an entertainment —a
stage entertainment with story, dialogue and charac-
ter, and maybe that makes a play, except to these
high-brow barrackers for crazy gloom and studied
melancholia, such as Ibsen’s “Ghosts” and the work of
the Scandinavian wowsers who wrote alleged dramas
like “The Seagull” and “The Cherry Orchard.” I
say that when “Stargazer” talks of “writers obsessed
by the necessity of crowding in accepted caricature
types on the assumption that a sufficiertcy of these
renders a sane display of human actions and motives
superfluous,” he talks a dishonest thing for the pur-
pose of putting “The Boss Cockie” into the same
street as some earlier work and its baser imitators.
“The Boss Cockie” isn’t in that street and never
will be. The pure comedy of the youth who
sticks a garden rake in his posterior, or of the over-
ripe egg, or the baser humor of pushing a saveloy
down a gentleman’s throat is missed by me. In
point of fact, some of the meaner “critics” were
sorry that “The Boss Cockie” could not be loftily
dismissed as mere slapstick and rednose.
Some of these “critics”, are terrible fellows. Of
course any man who can’t write can make himself
a literary critic. The deputy horse-reporter does
grand opera Saturday night after doing the pump-
kin market Friday. One such person filled his
“criticism” of “The Boss dockle” with some
alleged remarks about Rossini —whom I believe to
be a myth, as I lived three years in Italy and never
met him. Yet another Mr. Gloom discovered that
I can’t write since I interfered with politics, and
wept because I didn’t use “the art that conceals
art.” He does; so much does he conceal art that
it is invisible. And the little lads of the Sydney
press discover that “The Boss Cockie” “has no
plot.” What is plot but story, statement, develop-
ment, denouement? And hasn’t “The Boss Cockie”
a story worked out to its good ending? What sort
of story-writers are these who cavil at my story-
construction? As The Bulletin knows, there’s not
one of them good enough at story-construction to
entitle him to the honorable job of carrying my
story-copy to the comps.
But let ’em rave! “The Boss Cockie” we now
know is a theatrical property of permanent value —
as permanence goes in the theatre —and the good
people who pay three or four times in a season to
See it are my witnesses. We may be proceeding
very .slowly to the real Australian play, but our
method of trying and trying and trying is at least
more like business than these gloomy ones’ advice
to crawl up a hollow log and die. Maybe it’s good
for the Australian author to be more harshly criti-
cised than imported works because he can • stand it
better than the Pommy play; but the cold, mean
malevolence of some of these incompetents who
resent any work of mine as if it were a personal
insult deserves holding up (for this occasion only)
to the scorn of decent men. Meantime achievement
means only further essay. It was by trying that
the Greeks won to Troy.
There isn’t much war in the Christmas
Bulletin, to be published on Saturday,
December 11; but this paper doesn’t know
a better short story about it than “The
Simple Solution,” which tells how the war
looked to one more good Australian, the good
Australian this time being a sheep-dog that
was taken away as a pup by the battalion
to which the writer, Harley Matthews, be-
longed. It is an original idea, finely worked
out.


%
V
\
n
\
vt
\
&
f'
L
is
ft
5T
S/-'
/
m
1
%
M
j
m
m
*
&*
«es
t
-J‘
Be good to him this Xmas—give
him a SPARKLET SYPHON !
Why not a sensible, useful Sparklet Syphon as a gift for the men this Xmas, to take the sting
out of the hot days. In fact, a Sparklet Syphon is a splendid institution for the whole
family because of the benefits it brings. The hottest days merely go to show how wonderful a Sparklet Syphon
really is. You simply fill it with water from the tap, and a Sparklet bulb does the rest. It gives you a quart of
delicious Soda Water at half the cost of bottled drinks. Used with Spirits or Lemon or Fruit Syrups a Sparklet
Syphon gives an unlimited choice of cool, delightful drinks at a trifling cost whenever
and wherever you want them. The cost of a Sparklet Syphon is nothing compared with
the pleasure and saving it brings to the home. It pays for itself over and over again in one
summer, while its benefits are available all through the year. Get a Sparklet Syphon from
your Chemist* or Storekeeper and everyone will enjoy themselves.
Old Sparklet Syphons put right Free
Thousands of pre-war Sparklet Syphons have got out of order through being stored
away for so long. Instead of making bulbs during the war the Sparklet works were
making bombs. But that’s all over now. Therefore let us
help you to enjoy your Sparklet Syphon once again.
This can be done by merely fitting a few simple rubber parts which
we will send you free of charge. It is quite an easy matter to fit
them, and we send full directions. Therefore, find your old Spark-
let Syphon and write to us now for Free Spare Parts.
Fill in the Coupon below and post at once. Spare parts and full directions
will be sent by return. Please write plainly and give full address.
£5
FREE COUPON FOR SPARE PARTS
To Sparklets Ltd., 42 Pitt St., Sydney —*
Tlease send me new Rubber Washers and Pin for
Sparklet Syphon bought about 19
Tfame.
cAddress
Only one set of spare parts can be supplied free to each applicant
M.lO.
II
I
t
i
I
1
■ H
m i
V*
•4 v v
IrVSQ
AAA
i 'I
* M
- *Vf
r%
- *
*<• ";•
*:< . *
i '*
8A
»S
v
*
H
C«
ss*;
i
sr-T*’*
weal
iMdS
A. soda iounfam on a 4ea-irax|


The Appeal of Quality
The appeal of Quality was never so forcible as it is to-day—
particularly in Diamond Jewellery. Talented artists created these
designs, and the cleverest Diamond Experts selected the Stones.
Call at any of the Stewart Dawson Establishments and inspect their
beautiful assortment of Diamond Designs, which is continually
being added to.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS. Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN (N.Z.),
HATTON GARDEN, LONDON.
WRITE FOR LATEST CATAIO(WE.
STEWART DAWSON & CO (Amt.) Ltd.
The World=renowned Jewellery Firm.
E6o6—Fine Quality Diamond Set Platinum and 15-flt.
Gold Flexible Bangle, £37/10/-
0.178 —Choice Design Fine
Diamond and Platinum
Circle Brooch, £l7/10/*
K 992 —Fine Diamond and
Platinum Circle Brooch,
£lB/10/-
E6O8 —Very Artistic Design Platinum and 15-ct. Gold
Flexible Bangle, set Fine Quality Diamonds, £35
Best Quality Case supplied with each Article
POVERTY
POINT
MOËT &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“S.S.” : A couple of well-known Australian
actors standing in front of the Theatre
Royal one hot afternoon in a slump period,
when the “pei’fesh” was suffering one of its
leanest years, perceived another great native
product—one of the finest Hamlets of liis
day, sir—sagging down the opposite side of
“At the Barn," at
Sydney Palace.
Herbert Millard as
Lord Cloubarry.
the street as full
as a tick. The two
dry, sober subjects
surveyed the scene
with incredulous
wonder. “I would
not have believed
it possible,” said
one. “I didn’t
think there was
money enough in
the profession to-
day to finance it,”
replied the other.
They crossed over
and had conversa-
tion with him. lie
was full all right.
This was no spuri-
ous imitation. “But
bow, how can it
be don e?”- asked
one. “Where did
you get that jag?”
pleaded the other.
The full and happy mummer smiled wanly.
“Me boy,” he said, “didn’t you hear? An
aunt died and left me it?”
“O. Blip”: Florence Young made one
public appearance previous to her engagement
with the Melbourne Liedertafel mentioned by
“Old Pot” (B. 18/11/’2O). It happened in
1879 at the Polytechnic, Bourke-street, now
the site of the Salv’army headquarters, and
Florrie was the eight-year-old Rosy Kate in
a juvenile production of “Red Riding Hood.”
Florrie’s elder brother, Fred, who is now one
of the Firm’s stage-managers, was clown in
the same show; his brother Harry, now dead,
was Simple Simon; and little Millie, a mite
of five, made a hit with a specialty dance.
The panto, which was afterwards sent on,
tour, was managed by the Duvalli Sisters, a
couple of dancers \yho were very popular at
the time.
“Floater” : Florence Young, who is alleged
to have been born in Fitzroy, first saw the
light in a narrow-fronted stone house still
standing in Exhibition-street near the corner
of Collins-street. Her elder brother, Fred,
also started life there. The house had been
built by their grandfather in the late ’fifties
or early ’sixties. Subsequently it was the
scene of the marriage between Flo’s dad and
mamma; so it has a sentimental interest in
the Young family.
“Ancient Prompter”: Howard Vernon
played more recently with the Firm in panto-
mime than “0.K.” (B. 18/11/’2O) suspects.
In the J.C.W. “Dick Whittington” of three
seasons ago Howard came back to do the
semi-operatic Emperor of Morocco when that
show opened its Sydney run. The rotund
Oliver Peacock played the part in Melbourne
up till the. last nine nights, when he was
succeeded by Eardley Turner- —part author
of the “book”—who “filled in” till IF V. was
ready to take up his engagement.
“Stargazer”: Circus people have told me
of the luck utter fools have with lions and
tigex-s. There is the instance of the newly-
engaged young Chinaman, who, misunder-
standing the orders given him, went into a
cage of lions in a
circus a t Christ-
church (M.L.) and
calmly swept up,
booting the animals
out of his way. He
finished without a
scratch. W hen
Cole's great circus
was on its way to
Australia in the
Ci t y of Sydney,
George Conklin, the
American trainer,
was in charge of
the big cats. Ten
days from ’Frisco
the s h i p became
suddenly ebullient.
Sli e just oozed
l) e o p 1 e, w h o
scrambled up the
spars and swung in
the rigging. A lion
was loose. Conklin
went down, and
found the beast
toying with a mass
o f newspapers i n
the mail-room. He
made the capture
with little diffi-
culty, and then out
of a heap of paper
in one corner
emerged a man. It
“At the Barn," at
Sydney Palace.
Ashton Jorry as
James Crane.
was a wan clerk, who stuttered, “I fooled
him all right, I fooled him. I just rolled
myself in the paper and pretended to be a
bundle.”
“0.K.”: What purpose was served by
changing the names of Pinero’s characters in
“The Magistrate” when the farcical comedy
was set to music and called “The Boy”?
Plot, dialogue and principal situations are
preserved, although the scene is changed for
some of the situations to admit of inter-
polated chorus work, but the names are lost.
Why should magistrates Posket and Bullamy,
endeared to old Australian recollection by
Robert Brough and Herbert "Flemming, be
converted into Meebles and Burridge? In
place of Cis Farringdon whom Dot Bouci-
cault presented as a convincing youth, we
get a Hughie Cavanagli, and the Colonel
Lukyn of George Tftheradge’s prime is con-
verted into Colonel Bagot, played by Roy
Redgrave. Where Mrs, Brough and Hans
Philips were Charlotte and Captain Horace
Vale, we get Gladys Moncrieff as Diana and
Hilliard as Albany Pope. Where’s the
reason? In the cast proper no new name was
needed except Katie Muirhead. the flapper so
charmingly played by Nell Payne, for the
Joy Chatterton girl (Maude Fane) is more
or less identical .with the character (Beatie
Tomlinson) in which Nina Boucicault showed
her 18-year-old beauty in “The Magistrate”
35 years ago. Agatha Posket of the J.C.W.
production was Jennie Watt-Tanner’s part,
and because Jennie was a tall, large lady the
Millicent Meebles of “The Boy” is presented
by a tall, large lady of Jennie’s type.
Character, lines, situations, dialogue are the
same for Millicent Meebles as they were for
Agatha Posket. Why tamper with the old
names?
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: In 1888 Edward
Ellis published in Sydney “Pets of the
Public: A Book of Beauty,” containing 25
portraits of “favorite actresses of the Aus-
tralian .stage,” with critical and descriptive
notes. The portraits are those of Essie
.Tenyns, Marion Hood, Lily Dampier, Maggie
Moore, Nellie Farren, Nellie Stewart. Ida
Osborne, Letty Lind, Myra Kemble, Minnie
Palmer, Kate Bishop, Roland Watts-Phillips,
Carrie Swain, Alice Barnett, Nina Bouci-
cault, Leonora Braham. Mrs. George Rignold,
Jennie Watt-Tanner, Mrs. Robert Brough,
Isabel Morris, Lilian Gilmore, Mrs. Bland
Holt, Sylvia Grey, Agnes Thomas and Pattie
Browne. There still remain Maggie Moore,
Nellie Stewart, Mrs. Robert Brough and Mrs.
Bland Holt; and it may be there are others
who have dropped out of the Australian
public’s eye.
“Dido”: There is a feeble attempt in
“Maggie” at Melbourne Tivoli to resurrect
a kind of song that civilised people grew very
sick of some 10 years, a sort of song in which
the miserable operatives tell of the loves of
the animal kingdom. In “Maggie” it is the
worst feature of a deplorable lot that is re-
vived, but with scant suggestions of public
approval, I am glad to say. The song is a
song of cats, employing three grown com-
edians, who produce tails from under their
doggers, adopt whiskers, and caper round the
stage with the old familiar cat business of
friskiness, and the deplorable old caterwaul-
ing. Men have been lamed for less. When
well done the thing is nauseous, badly done
(and it may be said to the credit of the
Tivoli comedians that they do it very badly t
it is little less bearable. Why go back to
cats when the love affairs of the oyster have
not been exploited? It is only fair to say
that the first creature to walk out of the
Tivoli on the night of my visit was the small
black house-cat.
“Coot” : One of Howard Vernon’s greatest
old-time friends was Redmond Barry. The
absent-minded Judge was an enthusiastic bil-
liardist and so was Vernon. Once Barry’s
furniture was to be removed to a new villa,
and he arranged with Vernon to come early in
the morning and have a last game in the old
room. Vernon arrived so early that he
found ’Sonah in bed; but the Judge, all
apologies, struggled out, and for an hour they
made the ivories dance. Then Barry com-
plained of being cold. No wonder, for he
had been playing in his nightshirt.
“8.J.”: Another Irving has appeared on
the London stage—Elizabeth, daughter of
the late H. B. and Dorothea Baird. She went
straight from a girls’ school into the part of
Titania in the new Court Theatre production
of “A Midsummer Night’s Dream.”
“Glen II.” (from London) : There is a
proposal to erect a statue to William Vin-
cent Wallace, composer of “Maritana,” in
his native city of Waterford, Ireland. As a
young man Wallace went to Australia.
Arriving in Sydney in 1836, he decided to
go in for sheep-raising. It was while on one
of his brief visits to Sydney from the country
that he attended a party at which he played
the violin so well that Governor Botirke per-
suaded the young man to give a public con-
cert. After a while Wallace left off" sheep-
farming and toured Maoriland and Tassy as
a fiddler. He returned to England, and in
1845 ‘‘Maritana” was produced at Drury-
laue. Sydney saw the opera four years
later, with Mrs. Guerin (who afterwards
married Dick Stewart, father of Nellie) in
the title role.
“Bluebeard”; A bachelor girleen had been
disposing of her flat accoutrements and said
to her pal: “Who do you think bought my
piano. Why, my milkman! What can he
want with a piano?” “Perhaps,” suggested
her pal, “he wants to play ‘Willow, Tit
Willow’ on it.”
Jennie Lee is still on deck in London.
Although 40 years have passed since she
introduced “Jo” to Melbourne and Sydney
audiences, Jennie is “as high-spirited and
as much interested in the theatre as ever.”
In Melbourne she played “Jo” under the
patronage of Bishop Moorhouse, a proceed-
ing that caused some commotion in the front
pews.
“Ett” (London) : The fireproof curtain at
the St. James’s Theatre, where they do things
well, instead of featuring the usual ugly
jumble of advts., is a comparatively elegant
affair on which are inscribed two quotations
from “Hamlet” : “For thine especial safety,”
and “What, has this thing appeared again?”
“J.F.H.” (London) : William Archer,
dramatic critic of Ixmdon Star, came from
Queensland 40 years ago with a play called
“The Bushrangers” in his portmanteau. It
was produced at the Grecian Theatre, and
had a bit of a run at that big East End
playhouse shortly before old General Booth
converted it into a fortress of salvation.
Since then Archer has translated most of
Ibsen’s plays, written a few of his own
and turned out leagues of dramatic criticism
for the World and the Star. Recently
he went to New York to arrange for the
production there of a play which, lie says,
was “originally intended for the late 11. B.
Irving who, to my intense regret, died before
its completion.” He describes it as a romantic
melodrama in four acts set in “a mythical
state at the back of the Himalayas.”
“II.” Australian playgoers have pleasant
recollections of plump little Nina Boucicault,
who was a winsome colleen in the plays
when her pa “produced” in Sydney and Mel-
bourne in the early ’eighties. Nina, who
has not been seen on the London stage for
a long time, has a part in “The Prude’s
Fall,” to be presented at Wyndham’s
Theatre. Brother Dion, or Dot. has also
been an absentee, in his case through pro-
longed illness, and had to resign his role in
“Mr. Pim Passes By” to Ben Webster. But
Dot hopes to resume buisness at the Man-
chester Gaiety, where he intends presenting
a couple of new plays before submitting
them for the verdict of Cockaigne.
“Old Pot”: The best-matched pair of
Dromios on the Australian stage were Bill
Holloway,and his brother Charlie, father of
TOO RISKY.
“How was it that the manager wouldn't
giro you a part in the new musical
comedy? lie told me you had a beau-
tiful voice."
“That's just the trouble. He said a good
voice would create a bad precedent."
Mrs. Bob Greig. Off the boards they were
facially alike as two peas, and each had a
rather peculiar droop of the shoulders. But
the voices! The similarity was wonderful.
I remember being in the Sydney Criterion
one night when Essie Jenyns was appearing
as Juliet. Bill was Romeo and Charlie was
Friar Lawrence. When Charlie made his
entrance a stallite remarked audibly: “That’s
a good double. Romeo is doing the Friar.”
It was not until Bill and Charlie were on
the stage together that he was convinced of
his mistake.
“Glen II.” (London) : With a cheque for
£285,424, Grossniith and Laurillard have
obtained a controlling interest in the Gaiety
and Adelphi, which means that the firm now
controls six Londop playhouses. The theatri-
cal boom during the latter part of the war-
helped the firm to make a remarkably rapid
rise, beginning in 1914 with a production of
“Potash and Perlmutter.” Its nominal capi-
tal then was £lOOO. It is now well over
£1.000,000.
From London :
The Leicester Square Empire and adjoining
Queen’s Hotel, sold for something- like half a million,
are to make way for the inevitable cinema, or rather
two of ’em. One is to be “the most magnificent in
the British Empire” ; the other a smaller building
for continuous shows. Purchasers Jules and Jay .1.
Allen, sons of a working jeweller of Bradford,
Pennsylvania, who Started their first cinema with 150
kitchen chairs, a machine and a cotton sheet, to-day
control 65 picture houses and their capital is about
£4,000,000.
“Terrier”: Dropped into London Pal-
ladium on July 3 and had a yarn behind
the scenes with Jack and Bob Olrac, of the
Olrac Acrobatic Troupe, who toured Aus-
tralia on the Brennan and Fuller circuit
some .six years ago. Bob had that morn-
ing been presented by George with the M.M.,
which he won in the big scrap. When the
M.O. had finished picking bits of shrapnel
out of him he got back to the troupe. After
touring English provinces they contemplate
a second visit to Australia.
“M. 8.”: I saw the first night of “The
White-Headed Boy,” by Lennox Robinson,
at the Gaiety Theatre, Manchester. Sara
Allgood was in the cast. The play, a spark-
ling Irish comedy in three acts, has made a
hit. The dialogue is witty and crisp, and the
pathos is deftly brought out. Most of the
players are Irish. Among them are Maire
O’Neill and Arthur Sinclair, that best of all
actors from Ireland.
“8.T.”: The performance was long, sloth-
ful and intensely dull. The applause had
been perfunctory. It was a question which
would be first asleep, the company or the
audience. The slim comedian got going on
some hopeless piece of business, with which
he was plainly bored. Then out of the silence
of the house came a clear, sympathetic voice,
saying: “Look here, old chap, don’t do it if
you don’t want to!” It was the only cheer-
ful interlude of the evening.
FALSTAFF’S MERCIFUL ESCAPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We played at Sale on Saturday our final matinee.
That night All Star Varieties were advertised to play,
And with the stars of vaudeville was Charlemagne
the Grand
With his Nubian lion, Nero, and the cage was right
at hand
Behind the scenes what time we played “The Merry
Wives,” with Wirth,
The thinnest Falstaif to appear on any stage on
earth.
This Wirth was five feet ten ; he scaled jqst short of
eight -stone two.
We bought out all the stores of such material as
would do
To pad our slim comedian to the fatness of Sir John.
He was just a walking haybag when at length he
waddled on.
’Twas in Act 4 Sir John was trapped, and wilder
grew the mirth.
Till the lion came on, R.U.E., and smiled at Henry
Wirth.
Then terror seized the well-filled house. The lion
gave a roar,
And with a sudden impulse we stampeded for the
door.
We got away, and called the roll, and presently we
knew
That stout Sir John was missing. Twenty heroes
strong- of thew,
All armed with guns and axes, went with slow and
cautious pains
To destroy the roaring lion and recover the remains.
We found poor Falstaff’s stuffing scattered all along
the stalls:
There was lint thick on the stage, too, and it clung
upon the walls.
Behind the scenes the place was piled with snowy
evidence
Of the lion’s awful fury. Circumspectly moving
thence,
We found the dreadful lion, and he’d eaten in his
dearth
Two-thirds of Sir John Falstaif. What remained
was Henry Wirth.
There, plucked, a bone, a skinny thing, for thankful-
ness too full,
He was seated on the lion, who was choked with
cotton wool!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


Pay Less— Dress Better.
>3
%
Murdoch’s Famous
Hat Special.
An Australian-made Hat, fashioned in special-
quality pure Fur Felt. Conformable to either
turn-up or down shape, 2 % in. Brims. Sizes
6y 2 to 7%. Fitted with soft, sweat-proof
leather, and finished with Band and Side Bow.
This splendid range features many smart and
distinctive shapes, also a pleasing diversity of
color shades harmonising with plain or con-
trasting bands.
MURDOCH’S PRICE: 19/6
ADDED TO THESE ADVANTAGES
MURDOCH’S PAY THE POSTAGE
TO ALL PARTS OF AUSTRALIA.
MM
7/ A
w y.
1/
Murdoch’s
In Park Street, Ltd., Sydney.
The World's Largest Men’s and Boys'
Wear Store.
Four Weeks to Christmas!
■the Door is closing'
on opportunity.
Your Christmas Suit
can foe made-to-measure
at MURDOCH’S
and need only cost
84
HIS advertisement can save you pounds!
To enjoy your Christmas Vacation in a New
Suit, smart, well-tailored, perfect in fitting— at
this astonishingly low-price of 84-
Appeals strongly, doesn’t it?
How can Murdoch do this?
Buying direct from the mills—no wholesalers, agents or others
to add their bill to the cost—buying in great quantities to secure
advantages, these are only two of the reasons why Murdoch’s
can swing the pendulum back to old-time prices.
84/-
Also a nice range of Australian Woollen Tweeds at
110/-, 130/-, 150/-, 170/-
Cut along
this line.
Send
this for
Patterns.
Fill in your Name and Address, tear
off at dotted line and post immediately
to Murdoch’s {Desk R). You will
receive by return mail a nice range
of the latest weaves in pattern form,'
also Style Boole and simple measure-
ment chart.
/
'Name *
Address


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, UNITED, Redlern, Sydney.
LEWIS&WHITTY
£
I'f
h
\
Xo mo
©
1
MALT
PURE
IN AUSTRAUA
r PROPRIETORS
SpttUAN Disnu£tf p
zFMELBOURrtt.
4-?4Ce
THE SPIRIT
of /Australia
Qnd dustra/rds
BestSpir/t
'^a/rfain-
WHISKY
NOT ONLY DISTILLED, BUT ALSO BOTTLED
UNDER GOVERNMENT SUPERVISION
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
for
SPORTING
NEEDS
Two things stood out in the early stages
of the England v. N. S. Wales match —the pleasan-
tries of the “barrackers” (when Bardsley met with
a mishap in the field, one of them called out “Send
for Dr. Tozer!”) and the performances of J. M.
Gregory. The English batsmen failed after Hobbs
and Patsy Hendren left: they were, as they say of
the horses, short of a run in public. As for the
N.S.W. reps., in their first strike they were mostly
out before they went in. Hobbs’s batting was slow
and full of mistakes, due to the cramped methods
he was forced to indulge in to hold his wicket
Hendren relished the fast and medium bowling, but
was very much at sea with Mailey, and so was
Hearne. Fender put plenty of wood behind his
strokes, also a certain amount of kid, pretending to
lash at Gregory’s “off-theory” after it had passed, in
the style of Jim Kelly. The same player got the
bowling average in N.S.W.’s first innings with 4
for 26, and might have met with even more success
had he bowled slower. He breaks both ways with
a ‘ wrong ’un” now and then, and his pace nullifies
the brehk to a great extent. Douglas looked the
most difficult of the English bowlers on the day, and
he is not afraid to keep himself on. He was stung
by the crowd into having a go at Mailey, but shaped
poorly as a smiter. Rhodes was a nervy potterer.
Woolley batted gracefully but disliked Gregory’s
bumpers.” Hendry and Gregory were very safe in
the slips, although the bigger man, for a wonder,
dropped Fender off Trenerry. The rest of the fielding
was patchy and the returns wide and wild, except
those of Bardsley and Collins. Gregory bowled very
determinedly and sustained his pace, letting a very
dangerous one go occasionally that rose higher than
the others and was usually worth a wicket. Mailey’s
length was superb, and like others of his kind he
met with a certain amount of bad luck. Neither
Hendry nor Trenerry looked like getting a wicket
at any time. Oldfield fumbled a great deal behind,
but his batting was an asset.
When N, S. Wales went in on Monday with 334 to
get to win, the odds were well against them—on
S? I ™.-. , The wicket was presumably worse and the
English bowlers should have been confident. Douglas
opened to Macartney, and from then onwards the
Gordon champion never looked like getting out. Both
he and Collins made light of Howell’s expresses,
glancing them to leg and punching them through the
slips to the pickets in a most impartial manner. In
fact, Woolley was the only one of the seven bowlers
tried during this astonishing partnership who
appeared to cause either of the pair uneasiness.
Collins slowed down somewhat as he approached
his century (Macartney generously giving him the
strike where possible at this stage), but the smaller
artist never slowed down at all. As the tea interval
approached without a separation or any apparent pros-
pect of one the bowling grew loose. The fielding
was superb. Long before Collins skied one to Russell
off Fender the N. S. Wales win was assured. It was
appropriate that Jack Gregory should have scored
the winning hit. He had top-scored on the first
day with a slashing 46, and his bowling was one of
the winning features of the match.
* * . */
South Aus., getting desperate over its
lack of bowling, has resurrected Albert AVright for
the two inter-State matches just about to come off.
Andy Smith, who -took the whole five English
wickets that fell in the recent match, is not avail-
able for the eastern trip, nor is Whitty, and prospects
are not bright for the fine batting team—it begins
with two Richardsons, two Pellews, Dr. Don Steele
and Rundell. Gehrs has, as selector, left himself out’
Legh Winser will keep wickets. Wright, who is now
curator of the Adelaide Oval, has not been seen even
in club cricket for years, but is said to be in good
form. Steele is captain, with C. E. Pellew vice
* * * *
The consistent Mayne shone again in
Melbourne District cricket on Saturday with a handy
71 for East against Northcote. East totalled 250 and
’Cote finished the day with 1 for 46. Ironmonger (6
for 36) and Armstrong (3 for 25) caused the collapse
of Richmond for a miserable 64. Melbourne are 2 for
190, the not-outs being Armstrong (86) and Vaughan
(.57). Ransford revealed his lack of form by regis-
tering a duck. Brown was top-scorer with 34 in
’Wood’s tally of 141 against ’Roy, who are now 3 for
31. ’Wood’s destruction was due to the two inter-
Staters, McDonald (5 for 59) and Liddicutt (3 for
43). The Essendon v. St. Kilda engagement is
almost a replica of the disturbance between South and
North. South scored 260 and North 1 for 4, while
Saints and Essendon are respectively 259 and 1 for
6. Kenny, of South, rattled up 107 in just under two
hours. University had 7 for 314 against P’ran when
hostilities were suspended. Park knocked up 87,
including eight 4’s.
* * * *
In the English XI v. Victoria match,
finished on a damaged wicket, the ’keeping of Ellis
(Vic.) and Dolphin (Eng.) was high-class. Ellis
allowed only one bye in a total of 418 (the other
sundries were five leg-byes, two wides and one no-
ball), the innings lasting six hours. Dolphin didn’t
keep the byes down so ably, but he helped his side
to an easy win by bagging three catches, and he
stumped two. He is a Yorkshireman, 33 years old,
extremely active and seven years younger' than the
more-favored Strudwiclc.
* * * *
“Tasman” : A man has to be something of
a cricket historian to understand the gibes of the
ban-ackers. In England’s first innings against Vic.
Douglas (captain) had bowled until he had none
for about 60. “Why dontcher go on the other
end, Douglas?” said a weary voice. Douglas took
the remark to mean that if he went on the other
end he could see his analysis on the board better.
But the joke really had reference to Giffen, the s!
Australian. In one match he plugged away until
70 or 80 runs had been hit off him without bringing
a wicket. One of his team at last ventured to
remonstrate. “I say, George,” he said, mildly,
don t you think it’s about time there was a change
of bowling?” “By Jove, yes,” he replied. “A
good idea. I’ll go on the other end.” And, to the
horror of his side, he did.
Lord Jellicoe carried his bat in a one-
innings game between Government House and the
Defence Department at Wellington (M.L.). Of a
seoije of 67 the man from Scapa Flow claimed 19
(n. 0.), Captain Curtis made 26 and Collier 15.
Then came a, long tail which included six ducks, a
1 and two 3’s. For the defence, General Richard-
son started with a duck, being stumped by the
aforesaid. Collier, but his side rallied and got 175
for 8 wickets. His Ex. played with an orthodox
straight bat, and showed fine wrist work He
went in first and was at the wickets for 75 minutes
without turning a hair. What he thought of the
duck-farmers in his team could not be noticed upon
his cheerful, inscrutable countenance.
* * * *
.u T ¥ F es , ent English XI is very close on
the absolute best, according to E. H. D. Sewell He
would have had Fry in as captain, with Hobbs, Russell,
Hearne, IJendren, Woolley, Hitch and Strudwick, and
the amateurs Fender, Knight and Stevens. There
are “only two really
first-class outfields this
season,” and Hendren
is one of them. Hobbs
is one of the two best
a t cover-point, and
Fender “easily” the
best slip, followed by
I-lendren and our old
friend Braund. “I
haven’t seen a point,
except Warner; and
of course Hitch (when
he doesn't move about
too much) is the best
short-lep:, with Hen-
dren and Lee next.”
FENDER hits
a six.
Australia s first aerial Derby will be flown
at Mascot (N.S.W.) on Saturday next. There are
11 entries, including Captain Matthews and Captain
Roy King, both in Gnus. Colonel Watt is giving a
cup for a stunting championship event and the Aero
Club has offered a trophy for a short race to be
flown in a circle over the course.
The form was as uncertain as the weather
during the tennis championships in Melbourne. Part-
nered with Patterson against Rice and Ollivier in
the Doubles Championship on Saturday, Norman
Brookes was the wizard where the others were
merely good players. Brookes was also fine in his
Singles engagements, whereas Patterson, though suc-
cessful all through, double-faulted and missed at
the net as usual. Lacking Patterson’s punishing
service, O’Hara Wood still seems the more reliable
performer and has the qualities of a great match-
player, as was shown by his heavy defeat of Ollivier
on Saturday. Except in the second set, where he
occasionally had Wood playing hard, the towering
Maorilander never had a hope of victory. / The final
figures (6- —1, 6—3, 6 —l) should settle his preten-
sions for Davis Cup rank unless Brookes regards him
as a sounder player than Heath. Taken in conjunc-
tion with his Doubles form, Rod Heath’s play against
Patterson, when he was knocked out in three straight
sets (6 —4, 6—l, 6 —3), doesn’t entitle him to stick
feathers in his cap. His double-faulting on Saturday
was inexcusable for a man of his quality. Yet it
must be said that he has some good strokes —a cross-
court drive is a pearl.
So much for Saturday. On Monday the incredible
occurred, and the Sydney champion, Norman Peach,
driving peerlessly and using his backhand to perfec-
tion, completely overbore Brookes. The patriarch
won the first two sets, but it was all Peach for the
next three. Patterson smashed through the defences
of Hawkes, the Geelong youth, B—6,8 —6, 6—4, 10—8.
Until Monday it had seemed certain that the whole
Davis Cup team would come from Victoria, with
Brookes and Patterson as certainties, and O’Hara
Wood and Heath as the likeliest for the other posi-
tions. Monday’s doings suggest that Peach may yet
displace Heath.
* * * *
“Leagueite”: Touching that Sydney con-
ference at which it was decided that a man could
play Rugby League football and still remain an
amateur. The English Rugby Union officials have
now laid it down that any Rhodes Scholar who has
played the League game is ineligible to participate
in Rugby football at either Oxford or Cambridge
Universities. Idiotic, of course, in view of the fact
that British amateurs associate with pros, at golf,
cricket, cross-country riding and other sports.
Nevertheless, there the position is. If the Union
game passes out in the Commonwealth—and there
is every indication that it may—young Australia
will apparently have the
choice between taking to
ping-pong o r something
similar during the winter
months or becoming a
social outcast in England
in the event of being
selected under the Rhodes
benefaction. There is
another alternative, of
course—it might take to
the Australian f o o t b a li
game, which is the only
one that Victoria and S.
Aus. know, and is generally played also in West-
ralia. But the* fact alone will make it not to be
thought of in N. S. Wales.
* * * #
“15-30”: Tennis-champion Gerald Patter-
son told an Age interviewer the other day that
Tilden, who had beaten him at Wimbledon, “is not
the wonder he is acclaimed in the American press.’’
There is a hint of disparagement in this reference
to Tilden, who on his U.S. performances and subse-
quent brilliancy at Wimbledon is considered by good
judges to be the greatest singles player the world
has produced. Patterson alleges that he was off
his game when he faced the Yank in England, but
the fact remains that Patterson was fresh and un-
wearied, whereas Tilden had to fight a collection of
champions to win the position of challenger, and
came to the final tussle with his activity handi-
capped by a damaged knee. To beat Patterson by
three sets to one under such circumstances makes
Tilden wonderful enough.
* it * . *
“Bogi Bada”: Moresby, the tiny capital
of Papua, showed the terrible effects of the climate
on its settlers when H.M.A.S. Melbourne blew in
recently and the handy men met the young sports of
the town in an athletic contest. Perhaps if they
had not been nearly all residents in" this dreadful
country of several years’ standing they might have
won all the events. But tinned food and malaria had
got in their dirty work, and the local men couldn’t
collect the high jump and the 100yds. championship.
However, they annexed all the rest. Papua has a
bountiful supply of golden sunlight, sweet water and
clean air; given proper food, housing and hygiene,
the colony would be a second Java if Australia only
gave it a fair deal. But Melbourne is two thousand
miles away, and Papua’s tiny voice doesn’t carry
that distance.
* * * *
G. A. Godkin’s shooting was the feature
of this year’s Melbourne King’s. When the Mildura
farmer came to the Williamstown range few of the
tipsters gave him more than the casual countryman’s
chance; but he soon set the experts blinking. At
the first stage (300yds., 500yd's. and 600yds.) God-
kin shared the lead with L. de Grandi (Warrnam-
bool), scoring 101 (out of 105) ; at the second
stage (300yds. and 600yds.) he was on top with
C. j. O’Neil and J. C. Cochrane, with 98 (out of
100) ; the third stage saw him keeping up the
habit with 92 (out of 100). At the final stage
(10 shots at 900yds.) he cracked up .and scored
only 39 (out of 50), but his early surplus of points
still kept him safe, and he won with an aggregate
of 330, followed by E. J. Mues and J. H. Williams,
each with 327. Seven others were on the 326
mark. In the 70 shots Godkin hadn’t a “miss,” and
scored 53 bull’s-eyes, 12 fours, five threes and one
two.
Some of the British rifle team got passage-money
out of the meeting. W. H. Gray (294) and J. A.
Smith (290) topped the grand aggregate, with A.
G. R. Garrod (288) in fourth place; and Gray also
won the B.S.A. championship medal with highest
aggregate in the King s, Grand Aggregate and two
other event's. For the V.R.A. Grand Championship,
J. H. Williams (Melbourne) won with 570 from L.
de Grandi (568), and L. Armstrong (567). Wil-
liams won the same event in 1912. Digger Gilbert
Hill (Orange), who recently won Queensland King’s,
took the medal for the best aggregate by a Billjack
or Jim.
Teams representing Australia, Britain and Maoriland
contested the Empire Match at the wind-up of the
meeting. The Aussies led at 300yds. with 370;
Britain were on top at 500yds. ; but Australia again
scored most points at 600yds., 800yds. and 900yds.
The Maorilanders’ turn came at 1000yds., and they
piled up 310 against Britain’s 285 and Australia’s
277. The aggregate gave Australia 2094, Britain
2071, and Maoriland 2046. With the win goes the
challenge shield won by Britain in 1910. B. Smith
(Britain) put up the highest individual aggregate of
the match with 278; J. H. Williams (Aus.) 274,
and T. Smith (Britain) 271, next. The only “pos-
sibles” in the match were scored by L. Armstrong
(Vic.) and T. Smith (B.). -
Another smart member of the Pistol family
attracted attention on Saturday. This was Inca, a
fine-looking colt from Tironia (imp.), acquired last
years for 175 guineas by Robert Baillie, proprietor
of David. There were 18 runners in the Nurstty
Handicap at Canterbury Park, and Nitonian, by
Syce, was backed down to evens. Hopping quickly
away Nitonian was in front to the turn and then
blew out. Inca got going properly over the last
furlong, and running the five in “4i” won easing up
by a length.
There is evidently no demand at the stud
for a locally-bred champion, though he be a Poitrel
or Eurythmic. Thus at Albion Park (Q.) last week
all six winners were got by imported sires, and at
Canterbury Park Mountain King was the only Aus-
tralian represented by a winner.
**• # «
The Westralians think they have another
Eurythmic in the two-year-old Easingwold, which
won its first race in smashing style at Perth
on November 1. Like the Caulfield Cup winner the
well-thought-of youngster is a beautifully-shaped
chestnut, is by an imported sire—Eaton Lad in this
case —and was bought cheaply at the Sydney sales.
Having defeated all comers on the training-track, he
was backed down to 2 to 1 in a field of 17, took the
lead in a few strides and won in a canter. Which
was more than Eurythmic was able to do at his
debut, that aristocratic galloper having been fairly
and squarely beaten by Eragoon, a fine Beragoon colt
that was foolishly over-raced in his first season and
hasn’t trained on.
A PROBABLE JOB FOR FATHER.
REFEREE : “Gentlemen, on my right Knock-
out Ned, son of the local undertaker .”
NED'S OPPONENT : “ That’s enough—I'm off."
On Saturday, after a lapse of six years, the
Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron resuscitated the ocean
race for the Thelma' Plate. Five deep-keelers started,
including the G.-G.’s lately-acquired Yeulba. She
sported a pale-blue star on a black ground, and was
skippered bv Wally Marks, M.P., who had the assist-
ance of such crack hands as Peter McDonald and
Don Taylor. The thrash to the outside mark off
Dee-Why saw Oenone (24min.) away first, followed
by Scotia (18min.), Yeulba (15min.), Aoma
(13min.), and .the old champion Bona (honor mark).
Topsails were in evidence on the wind, and the limit
boat was caught at the Heads, where Scotia took
command. Aoma (J. S. Palmer) was sailing like
a witch, and, when off Manly, picked up Marks’s
charge. There was a fine go between these two
boats until the vice-regal barge lost her foresail and
Aoma forged ahead. The Dee-Why buoy saw Aoma
ease away and run out her spinnaker ahead
of Yeulba, which headed Scotia by 2min. Scotia’s
skipper, bv the way, undoubtedly sacrificed the race
by standing so far on that he was obliged to ease
away and run the mark down when rounding. Bona
was last to round, having picked up over 7min. on
the punch to windward. The spinnakers were of
little avail on the run back to the Heads, there being
by this time a lot of east in the blow. The only
change on entering the harbor was that Bona had
displaced Scotia. The twist from the Heads to Shark
Island filled the extras, and a battle royal was wit-
nessed between the leaders and Len Patrick’s heavily-
canvassed Bona, which was pulling them back inch
by inch. A minute and a quarter separated Aoma,
Yeulba and Bona at Shark Island, and from there
to the finish it was a toss-up. Bona’s big spread
eventually prevailed, and she annexed the Plate by
28sec. from the G.-G.’s Yeulba, with Aoma 6sec.
further astern, followed 4min. later by Scotia.
* * * * *
Billy Longworth still improves. Last
Saturday he streaked over 150yds. in lmin.
39 l-ssec., or just 5 l-ssee. worse than his best. By
the way, the Rose Bay (Sydney) Bath, on being
measured by a surveyor prior to this race, turned
out to be 24in. too long over the first 100yds. and
32in. over for every succeeding hundred. So young
McOure’s 50yds. in 23 3-ssec. last April must go
down as the best 50 ever swum by an Australian.
At Sydney Stadium on Saturday night
featherweight champion Jack Green endured the first
knock-out of a brilliant career. The affray
might have lasted longer had Green not begun the
first round by punching France, as personified by
Eugene Criqui, illegally low. The lathy visitor
waded in furiously in the next round, and punching
with the machine-like precision of a Darcy, had
Green on the floor inside a minute. The Sydney lad
was on the defensive throughout the third session, and
he spent most of the next on his back. As Criqui
dropped him for the fourth time in this round Joe
Wallis stopped the bout. Criqui is to meet Sid-
Godfrey on Boxing night, and considering the
physique and methods of the two men it should be
one of the matches of the year.
In competition with the picked athletes
of the Westralian Public Schools, a sterling per-
formance was put up at Perth recently by Gilbert
Mann, of High School. The youngster had pre-
viously distinguished himself by arriving home
first in the five-mile swim through Perth, a Severe
test of stamina. He won the 100yds in 10 4-ssec.,
the 440yds. in 54sec., the 880vds. in 2min. 12sec.,
and the mile in smin. ssec. ; he also tied for the
220yds. with Weafne, of the Church of England
Grammar School, in 24 2-ssee. But what criminal
folly to let a stripling run five severe races, aggrega-
ting just on two miles, in one day!
* * * *
Billy Fogwell (N.S.W.) found the burden
of 45 years too much in the race for the Maoriland
sculling championship on the Wairau on Saturday,
and was easily defeated by Paddy Hannan in 21min.
3sec. Fogwell has held the title for nine years,
and only stripped in response to a syndicate gather-
ing a purse of £275 to go with the title. Billy
McDevitt (N.S.W.) has thrown a challenge to
Hannan for a race for the title.
* * * *
W. C. Sturrock (Manly) added his name
to the list of N. S. Wales 'champion of club-champion
golfers at Kensington on Saturday. He went round
in 75 and 79=154, two strokes better than Tom
Howard (Bonnie Doon). C. H. Reading (Royal Syd-
ney), with 159, and Eric Apperly (Australian),
with 163, followed. Howard (1913) and Apperly
(1919) had previously won the event.
N. S. Wales League of Wheelmen spun
off two State championships at Sydney on Monday
night, and the titles went to fresh legs. In the
mile J. G. Atkins won from L. Hammond in 2min.
9 4-ssec.; but Hammond took the five miles from
C. L. Papworth in llmin. 44sec.
THE UNSPORTSMANLIKE OUTBREAK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“London Daily Chronicle’s cricket correspondent,
commenting on the spectators barracking Douglas’s
l.b.w. appeal, says, ‘lt is not cricket,’ and adds:
‘Judging from the cabled reports it seems that it is
time the Australian authorities took definite steps
to suppress such unsportsmanlike outbreaks before
the nervous tension of the test matches is reached.’ ”
— Cable.
We all deplore the conduct rude
Of each loud-mouthed vulgarian,
Who must his comments coarse obtrude,
And yell like a barbarian;
Who stoops to vile, plebeian chaff,
And barracks to secure a laugh.
It’s time the common herd were taught
To take their cricket seriously ;
The British Sportsman, overwrought,
Is apt to act deliriously—
It pains him when a ribald wag
Advises him to “git a bag!”
It wounds his tender, shrinking soul,
To hear the proletariat
Suggesting how he ought to bowl,
Or that he needs a lariat;
You may politely cheer his stroke,
But pray make no unseemly joke.
* At ’Ome, of course, we Play the Game,
The crowd behave decorously,
They never criticise or blame,
But say “Bravo!” sonorously;
“Played, sir!” they chirp, or cry “Well run!”
But barrack—haw!—it isn’t done.
N.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


Why Don’t You Learn to Use Your Hands?
You should learn “ how” to box
learn to defend yourself. Such a
knowledge will never be a burden to
you, but at times of need will prove
your best friend and protector.
No man knows the day or the hour
when he will be called upon to avenge
some insult, or the time when he will
have to defend himself against some
bully or ruffian.
I Teach
Boxing by Mail
—teach, you how to become a skilled and scientific
boxer. My boxing instructions ate very thorough—
you’ll find them most interesting, and be surprised
at the quick progress you will make under my per-
sonal coaching. My lessons provide an enjoyable
pastime, and are cramful of health-giving relaxation
and exercise.
Write your name and address across this advertise-
ment and post it to me, and l will send you by
return mail my interesting booklet, “Scientific Box-
ing in Your Home,” which tells all about my
methods, terms, etc. Please send three stamps for
postage.
We specialise in high-class Box-
ing Gloves and shall be pleased
to supply prices on application.
REG. L. (Snowy) BAKER & BROS.,
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,
375 Municipal Buildings, 82 Oxford Street (Corner Crown Street), SYDNEY.
( IJS} ICEFIELD
Read.
MOTOR. OIL
FOR HILL CLIMBS:
ASK BOYD EDKINS!
s^ULATEsSw^
British and Best.
C.C. Wakefield? Co. Ltd.
Sydney and London.
.
The Hall Mark
of Quality-
All Over the World*
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNP.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 0.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
HEADACHE
and
SORE
THROAT
YOU FEEL
TOO ILL
TO GET
UP-BUT
there’s an old and tested remedy which
will make you feel better immediately
and will cure you absolutely in two
days. When you wake up with a head-
ache and sore throat —
DON’T BE ALARMED! FEND OFF THAT
ATTACK OF ’FLU BY TAKING
GREATHEAD’S
MIXTURE.
Greathead’s is sold in generous-sized bottles, and one bottle is generally more than
enough to cure the most obstinate cold. It will also cure tonsilitis, bronchitis,
influenza, sore throat and quinsy. Never be without a bottle of Greathead’s.
YOUR CHEMIST AND GROCER SELL IT!
AN EXCEPTIONAL SHIPMENT OF
THE CELEBRATED
“OMEGA”
Hair Clippers
Spare plates to cut three different lengths included.
12/6 per set. Postage 6d. extra.
A. A. MARKS, LIMITED.
Importers of Tobaccos, Cigars and Cigarettes,
Head Office: 376 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
SHOPS EVERYWHERE.
\
N
The “Foster” Spot Welder
supersedes the old riveting method
in connection with sheet metal-work of every description,
being simpler, cheaper and
considerably more efficient.
The two parts to be joined are pressed
together between two copper tips. The
work is raised to a welding heat by electric
current, and the joint completed by pressure
through the copper tips. The welding time
approximates one second per l-16th inch
thickness. The “Foster” Spot Welder is con-
structed to stand rough usage, and shocks are
impossible. Five different strengths of weld-
ing current may be secured.
Further Particulars concerning
this and Butt Welders
from Sole Agents:—
Homewood S O’Neill
Head Offices and Warehouse: 172-176 William
Street, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 1: Somerset Place, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 2: Ferrars Street, South Melb.
Sydney Office: 375 George Street.
Manufacturers:
FOSTER ENGINEERING CO., LTD.,
Wimbledon, London.
Pty.
Ltd.,
PERFECTION MARINE ENGINES
in any size for Pearling Schooners,
Working Boats, Pleasure Launches,
Canoes, Dinghies, etc.
dts>
8-H.P. UNIT PLANT
with reverse gear on same bed. Perfect alignment guaranteed. The
ideal engine for small speed boats. Speed record up to date is - $
miles per hour, driving a 20ft. by 4ft. 6in. Hand V -Bottom boat,
turning a 16in. x 20in. propeller.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY FROM STOCK
of the 8-h.p. Unit Plant illustrated, and Heavy-duty Types from 2J
to 8 h.p. Enquiries invited for Caille Outboard and ‘ Bantam
(Inboard) motors; also 1-, 2- and 4-cylinder types from 2 to 40 h.p.,
for light or heavy duty.
All Engines Fitted with High-Tension Ignition.
Catalogues and full particulars of all types post free from
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA AND PACIFIC ISLANDS,
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney; 344-6 Swanston Street,
Melbourne; 138 Currie Street. Adelaide; and Wellington, N.Z.
Cable Address—“Brosbenson.”
C 390


m
•vv
Ready-to-wear Suits
at
“ The Store for Men. ’*
J7ARMER’S specialize in Ready-to-wear clothing.,
Scientific study of measurements has evolved
standards assuring all the essential characteristics of
made-to-order apparel.
PBl—Young Men’s Ready-to-wear Suits, two-button style;
rounded lapels, usual pockets, seam at back, no vent.
Coat medium length; vest five buttons. Trousers side and
hip pockets, cuff bottoms. Light and dark grey striped
Australian All wool Tweed. Price 90/-
Plain stripe or small check designs in dark brown, light,
medium and dark greys. Prices .. 95/-, 105/-, 115/-
Light Weight English Worsteds and Tweeds, including
greys, browns, and fawns. 126/-, 135/-, 147/-, 168/-
FARMER’S :: SYDNEY
Box 497, G.P.O. We Pay Carriage.
The Spirit of Caprice
came to the show-rooms of Shave . She gazed
in envy at the rare display and never more
wore a garb fantastic . Now she affects Shave
Gowns , combining an air of good dressing
with her own quaint novelty.
We will gladly explain to you our special
model-fitting system by which most elaborate
gowns are made without the need of fittings.
SHAVE,
Ladles’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Centreway,
Me bourne!
lunityjFair'®
SULK (BIKIMBS
Vanity Fair Silk Gloves
give added style and grace
to' the lines of your hand.
They fit better, wear longer
and are more comfortable and
satisfactory in t very way. The
reason is their superior quality,
excellent design and workman-
ship.
Vanity Fair Silk Gloves are
double tipped for double wear,
and finger tips are guaranteed
not to wear through before
gloves have given reasonable
wear, or have been washed.
Your Draper should have them.
VF 27
Melbourne
Chatter
DISPLAYBLOCK
Whence comes
all that is
exclusive
Lady Fuller, widow of the genial Sir John
who rollicked through the State Governor’s
job here, is to be married again. No. 2
will be Colonel Forestier-Walker, son of the
late Sir G. F. R. Forestier-Walker —a horsey
man who rides his own steeplechasers. He
and his first wife were divorced. They had
no children. But Lady Fuller has a quiver-
full.
The newest Viscountess, who last month
was Lady Helen Munro Ferguson, has an-
other honor of her very own. In September
she was made a J.P. on the recommendation
of the Lord Lieutenant of Fife.
At the funeral of Florence Young Canon
Hughes recalled that she once taught a class
in his Sunday-school, and had a tremendous
vogue with the nippers on account of her
cheery tongue and generous disposition.
Flo was a pretty good Scriptural scholar,
but infant curiosity over mysterious Bible
happenings often had her hunting for happy
explanations. One Sabbath the class pon-
dered over the tale of Jonah and the “whale,”
and the smartest babe wanted to know how
a whale with its small gullet could get a
hefty prophet into its interior. “Well,
children,” said Florence brightly, “I sup-
pose the whale was like one of us—it could
swallow anything.”
A tremendous house heard Lowell Thomas
through his first “talk” at the Royal on
Saturday. Braziers burning incense and a
shadowy water-carrier passing to slow music
before the opening vista of palms created a
temporary Oriental atmosphere which was
quickly dissipated by the blinding spotlight
hunting for the figure of the leading man.
However, he soon came forward in dapper
waiter’s garments that seemed a little shy
of his boot-tops, and poured out his talk with
an occasional well-groomed jest to prevent
the populace brooding unduly on his nasal
inflections. Lady Forster, with a party
chaperoned by a bewildered, eye-glassed aide,
made a smudge of subdued color in the front
row of the d.c. Next door was General White
in all his war-paint, whilst General Monash
glowered on the other flank, accompanied by
his daughter and her new husband. Across
the aisle Senator Pearce and his angelic-
looking partner had General and Mrs. Brand
as their closest neighbors, and, behind, the
spherical frame of General Sellheim balanced
precariously on an inadequate seat. The
Bests, the Finks, a colony of Taits and others
flattered the lecturer by applauding politely
now and again.
Sassiety turned up in great force for the
tennis championships on Saturday. The
toilets were made to match a higher barom-
eter, but happily only a couple of half-hearted
showers bore out the threat of the gloomy
skies. There was some bright tennis and
still brighter applause towards the end of
the show, when the -N. S. Wales ancient,
Horrie Rice, accepted a large piece of plate
and a golden ornament for his wife in recog-
nition of his jubilee appearance in inter-
state battles. President Weigall, who handed
over the gifts, addressed his complimentary
remarks to the exclusive deadhead section
of the stand, leaving outsiders, w r ho had
merely paid for admission, to wonder what
all the palaver was about.
Lady Forster and her grandson, Mrs. Pitt-
Rivers and her small son and a party of
half a dozen grown-ups went to the Circus
on Thursday afternoon to see the show
given by the Wirths for the children of Dig-
gers. Mrs. Chauvel, who is president of the
Friendly Union of Soldiers’ Wives, and Mrs.
Sellheim, lined up with the Wirth brethren to
receive the company. Three children were
invited with each mother; and mothers who
had not three children mostly borrowed one
or two. One pathetic little woman arrived
with her quiver of seven. “I couldn't leave
the other four at home,” she said, and the
whole lot were cheerily passed in. It was
really worth while borrowing an infant or
two to get in and listen to the squeals of
delight. The Wirths beamed. They have
given this Christmas treat to young Diggers
every year since the war began.
If any should have pride of place at a show
of this sort they surely are the widows and
mothers of fallen soldiers. Yet the widow
of General Bridges, the Anzacs’ first com-
mander, was out of the vice-regal enclosure.
This is the sort of thing of which the R.S.A
might be expected to take notice.
The Jimmy Dyers were given a welcome-
home party at the Lyceum Club. Mrs.
Jimmy showed up in a pale-green tissue
frock looking like a Rhine maiden. Con-
stance Buchan sang and other Conserva-
torium songstresses punctuated the buzz of
tongues. Claude Hall recited, and Walter
Kirby stirred up enthusiasm. Since she’s
been gone Mrs. Dyer has listened to opera
at the New York Metropolitan, flown to
Paris by aeroplane, lunched at the House
of Commons and eaten shortbread at Edin-
burgh.
11. G. W. Neale, sec. to the Vic. Agent-
General, after giving a luncheon
to a number of civil service men and others,
at Menzies’, left by the Osterley on his return
to London. He made the best use of the few
months he was in Australia and now knows
definitely that the bunyip is a bird and that
the padymelon was imported from Connaught
to provide shelter for the native banshee.
Dorothy Randle, a talented youngster at
the piano, had a complimentary concert in
the Town Hall last week; and Dr. Sugden,
Mrs. Woods and Mrs. Quinnell helped to
prepare the show. The Irvine dame and the
Mayoress took the cushioned seats, and many
highbrows were in the audience. Dorothy
wore a knee-length skirt which tipped up
alarmingly when she bowed. She has tre-
mendous powers of punch in her arms and
will probably develop a more evenly balanced
attack. Kirby, who is to have his concert
on the 4th, lent some exquisite high notes to
the programme. The Metropolitan Choir,
fresh from winning Sydney laurels, got a lot
of applause; so, did Charlotte Hemming,
marvellously sheathed in mauve; and Madge
Agnew, a handsome girl in white, sang some
songs by McCunn.
On Thursday at North Melbourne there
was a fine gathering of Scots’ Kirk women
to help the Kildonan Orphanage. Mrs. J.
P. Strachan, Mrs. Henry Harper and Mrs.
Secretary Turner received the people and
parcels. It was the orphanage’s lucky dav ;
for in the morning it got word of a £lOO
legacy, and this At Home drew some solid
cash and loads of provisions. Matron
McGregor, with Sub-Matron Doig, did cheery
duty, and showed pride in a spick-and-span
home where 50 bright bairns are cared for.
Kildonan is 36 years old, but has been only
six years in its present abode. Its honor-
board, with a long list of past inmates who
have done it great credit, catches the eye :
it is the work of returned Diggers, and was
given by Miss Lily Currie, of St. Kilda.
Justice Higgins, speaking to the Work-
ers’ Education Association, recalled the
legend that when the birds decided to choose
as king the one who would fly the highest,
the wren persuaded the eagle to carry him
on his back skyward. When the eagle grew
weary the wren flew a little higher and
became king. Now, whom was his Honor
thinking of? Everybody knows that his
love for the Prime Minister, for instance,
passes the love of a brother.
The statuesque Mrs. Albert Miller is stay-
ing with her daughter, Mrs. Alan Currie, at
Ercildoune. Ercildouiie, the old Wilson
squattage near Ballarat, has seen some rapid
changes of late years. Lady Sarah Wilson
made her last visit to it when Kitchener was
in Australia. She left the Adelaide
express at Ballarat, motored to Ercildoune,
then slipped along to Melbourne. Melbourne
was a disappointment, so the lady streaked
back to the home run, got the express from
there and returned to England (via Adel-
aide) by the same liner that brought her.
From another cat in London:—
I don’t know Miss Pauline McMorran, described
as “an Australian girl now in London,” but the
Daily Express alleges that she is the “double” of
Paula Gellibrand and “will probably be much seen
at parties in the winter.” For the benefit of those
who dwell in darkness 1 may mention that Paula
Gellibi and is London’s most loudly-boomed society
beauty, about whom columns, accompanied by numer-
ous photographs, have appeared in the press.
. Kid you hear of the dutiful police order-
ing several of the smartest to remove costly
aigrettes from their hats at the races? Ad-
journment to the dressing-room followed
more than one brief interview with plain-
clothes officers.
Christmas is coming, so the cards go out
for Mrs. William Green’s ball on Monday,
December 6. The G.-G. and his ladv and
Acting-Governor Irvine and his lady are to
be present. Mrs. Green always gives the gate
money to charities. This year the Hebrew
Ladies Benevolent Society, St. Vincent’s
Hospital and the Blind Institute will benefit.
A little woman with an aristocratic nose
was a customer at the silk-stocking counter
Seventy shillings!” she exclaimed. “Oh,
I couldn’t afford those!” A large lady
alongside stretched out a hand. “Give ’em
h^ e ’” she said—‘Til buy them.” Then she
added with a sniffy look at the other: “We’s
up—you’s down.”
Harry Harrison has a commission to paint
the portrait of General Legge for the
National Gallery. The General, who was
Miiet ot Staff during most of the war, is now
tmcling life drowsier at Duntroon.
Carmen Pinschof’s soprano is in heavy
demand for grand opera and concert work
in the L.S. Her husband, the tall and ele-
gant Harris, who was associated with Bur-
goyne’s in Melbourne a few years ago, is
now pursuing the elusive guilder in Batavia.
Florence Fawaz, the big Victorian soprano
who went to America a while ago with-
out causing a sensation, was not long
m convincing London critics of her ability,
boon after landing in the Fog she was
booked as principal dramatic soprano for the
Covent Garden season that opens in May.
The young artist is to do Wagnerian roles,
including the tempestuous Brunhilda in the
Ring.
Molly Linden, daughter of departed Otto,
has been smiling out of the movies-made-in-
America at recent Melbourne theatres.
Molly’s delicate features do not show to
advantage in the pictures. She was more
impressive when she walked on, in gorgeous
J.C.W. shows, wearing lovely clothes and an
icy air. G.-G. Dudley’s eye always twinkled
when she was on the boards.
Lindsay Russell has two new books listed
for the coming year. The first, “Wanderers’
Road.” is dedicated to her father, Robert
Stonehouse, who died at Stawell a year ago.
The second, “Fools’ Gold,” is the first work
she has done since her return to Australia.
Betty Paterson, the creator of the quaint
youngsters' that appear so frequently in this
paper, is conspicuous for her versatility.
Originally intended for a musical career,
she fiddled her way
into the affections
of the best critics,
and then produced
a voice of which
even greater things
were promised. But
her early passion for
art, revived by the
success of sister
Esth e r, suddenly
married her to a
dra\ying-board, and
she has since been
depicting the infant
world of her inven-
tion with fascinat-
ing humor. Just now
there is a tremendous
demand for her work.
Some of her charming
nippers, accompanied by her own ingenious
rhymes, are appearing in a children’s book,
Binkie the Bother,” to be published by
Alex. MeCubbin shortly. Also further speci-
mens of the family will soon be swaggering
in color on a series of cushion covers which
are being manufactured by a Melbourne
firm. This photo of the brilliant girl is
one of Mina Moore’s.
To the welcome to the Dyers Mrs. Pater-
son, looking as blithe as her lassies, brought
Louis Esson’s mother, Mrs. Gibbs, just back
from a visit to her literary son. The Essons
seem to have taken firm root in London.
As much as an erratic post brings from
Adelaide :
Eslick has given up the idea of running his Dance
Palace in Adelaide all through the summer. It
closes this week—till April—but Eslick will transfer
his abundant energies to a place he is building on the
shore at Glenelg.
A committee has been formed to raise the £5OOO-
- that is needed for the planting and upkeep of
the Soldiers’- Cemetery at West Terrace. A report
that there were already 40 or 50 graves of appar-
ently friendless returned men in the public cemetery,
unmarked even by a wooden cross, led the Soldiers’
Welfare Committee to take the matter up, with the
result that a soldiers’ section has been set apart.
Enough is in hand for preliminary planting, but an
endowment fund is wanted to guarantee the upkeep.
Cheer-up Hut workers met lately to make a pre-
sentation to Miss Amy Tomkinson, one of the
society’s most untiring toilers. Very early in the
Hut s history she established a “cabbage patch,”
from which incalculable loads of fresh vegetables
made their way to the Hut’s kitchens, and her
example was followed by scores of School children, so
that all through the war and the repatriation the
Cheer-up vegetable bill has been reduced almost to
invisibility.
Sad news comes to Adelaide of Mrs. Daisy Bates,
who has been doing noble work for the abos. at
Ooldea, on the Sunset line. An illness has brought
on temporary blindness, and Mrs. Bates will be
unable to read or write for some time. And reading
and writing were her sole recreations in that desolate
spot.
What do you think ? Governor Weigall has
attended a Grocers’ picnic! And, what’s more, he
told them at lunch that he means during his term
of office to “get right down to rock-bottom with
everybody, no matter to what class or creed or
industry they belong.” Haven’t State Governors to
work to retain their jobs these times? Almost
the very day our Weigall was telling us this, we
read that Governor Davidson, in Sydney, taking his
time from a Labor M.P., was assuring them that
the only aristocrats in Australia were the people of
personal worth. Everybody here wonders what his
wife, who has a marquis in the family, thinks about
it. As for the Weigalls, of course—well, her people
were “in trade,” so she probably agrees with h<# lord.
All the best flappers, with their brothers,
cousins and schoolboy pals, whirled at a jazz
hosted by the two younger Bowes Kelly
boys, who have lately stepped from knicker-
bockers. A piano and banjo kept two-
steppers busy until the Jazz Palais Orches-
tra blew in to beat out ragtime. Our young-
people take their pleasures as seriously as
their elders, although musical chairs and
hide-the-thimble have lately been substituted
for dancing in the very first Fogland circles.
Mrs. Bowes Kelly, handsome in fuchsia-
colored draperies clouded with gold-embroid-
ered black net, had the help of a quartette
of attraetively-chiffoned daughters. Amongst
the elders \yfio occasionally broke into the
dancing-ring in the big hall were Captain
McNamara, Y.C.; tennis-player Hawkes, the
French Consul and his Madame, the Dal-
rymples, Mrs. Austin Embling and Lindsay
Mildred.
Mrs. Cowper, who with her ex-banker hus-
band is going back to Maoriland after win-
tering in the city, assisted her sister, Laura
Nyulasy, to entertain about 200 social nota-
bilities at a farewell tea at Menzies’ on
Thursday. Tea-and-talk was sandwiched
between a first-grade musical programme,
with George Brookes and his piano-playing
pal Cahill as bright stars. Mrs. W. M.
Hughes came with a huge pink bouquet
handed her at a previous function. Mrs.
Robert Harper, who is putting her South
Yarra palace, Airlie, on the auction-block,
came with a daughter. Mrs. Bob Best, Mrs.
Littleton Groom and Mrs. Harry Emmer-
ton sat at a table together. Mrs. Sam
Staughton, wearing a black frock for her
aunt, the late Mrs. Felix Armytage, dropped
in for a minute or two and stayed an hour.
For “The Lilac Domino” Mclntosh has
imported Jamieson Dodds, who had the lead
in the remarkable two-years London run of
the-piece—the original run, before the Aus-
tralian, Digger Billy Chisholm, took the lead
for the provinces and a London revival.
The Ministering Children’s League is hav-
ing a big party on Saturday, December 4,
at the League’s “Cottage by the Sea” at
Queensclift'. Tickets at 317 Collins-street,
or at the pier before the chartered Hygeia
puts off at nine.
Esther Paterson, the versatile young Aus-
tralian, with her mother and sister, is off to
try London and high prices by the Aberdeen
line in February.
To demonstrate her continuous interest in
the newsboys, Lady Stanley has sent Edith
Onians a colored print of St. Helena, to be
hung at the David Ilarbison Rest Home for
Sick Mothers at Eltham. Mrs. Willie Watt
brought it, along with a lengthy letter of
good wishes. There was no postal note for
the frame.
Somebody made a mistake and said last
week that the daughter of one-time Railway
Commissioner Francis was married to
“Hughie Callan of Port Darwin.” She is
the wife of Jack Callan—iHughie was killed
in the war. His widow was one of the hand-
some Williams girls.
Under the excited baton of Fritz Hart
the. Con. is rehearsing Mozart’s “Figaro,”
which is to go up at the Playhouse on
December 8 and 9. Howett Worcester is
handling the staging, and students of course
will be the players. Highbrows are expected
to turn up in numbers for a Christmas laugh
—and it will be a relief to be able to have a
laugh at a student show and still preserve
your reputation for being quaite naice.
An Australian girl writes to tell how
Tetrazzini has once again conquered London.
It happened at the Queen’s Hall, which was
packed. Tetrazzini looked simply wonder-
ful, dressed in edu de nil ehanneuse
embroidered in gold, with gold-colored shoes
and stockings, long white gloves, a string of
pearls, a diamond, pendant and ear-rings.
Her hair is a pretty shade of chestnut brown.
Her notes rang out gloriously in the Bell
Song, but the high E on which she ended
cracked perceptibly, and the knowing ones
were seen to shake their heads.. When the
applause died down, she led Percy Kahn to
the piano, pointed to the last few bars, and
sang them as they should be sung. Then the
house went mad and the applause was terrific.
The Mcßride knight and his lady, of the
Victorian Agent-General’s Office, gave a din-
ner on the opening night of the Savoy dance
season in honor of Tootles Williamson.
Tootles expressed herself in gold shot with
red gauze over amber silk, with two large
golden roses caught in the filmy meshes —
one in the top rigging; the other just above
the hem of her skirt.
Dennis’s “Digger Smith” and “The Moods
of Ginger Mick” have been offered a place
in a unique French library comprising the
pick of the world’s books that deal directly
with the war or have had the war as their
inspiration. The library was created by a
vote of the French and already
holds some thousands of volumes.
The Christmas Bulletin —a special num-
ber—to be published on Saturday, December
11, will include work by the hundred best
artists and writers of Australia. It is to
be sold at the same price as an ordinary
number —ninepence.


From George the Third
To George the Fifth
One Hundred years tong
Born 1820. Stilt °oin° strong.
A
A
% a
X
*ry
c,
I *
CP
LM
<?
-A
N "
j I
V
/A\
IS££
0
PPIiP
y&'&AfsKS&s
W
i T
3
m
L.v '
*
fl
sqm
h
Wmft
7KSS
6
?£f>:
£SLS
«
A«
g
m
sa
vSrSS
Jil
wfela&
:
"•jirvK
®ai
ss
w
K£S
c*;r
•VLX
.
JOHNNIE WALKER TRAVEL SERIES. No. 6. —COLOMBO.
Fair Visitor to Colombo: “What! ‘Johnnie Walker’in the Cinnamon
Gardens ? ’
; .. . . . ■ .: ~ r
Motoring Host: “Thank Goodness, my dear, * Johnnie Walker* is
everywhere.”
Guaranteed saine quality all over the world.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND


Charles
IIEIDSIECIfi
Vintage 1911
MM
NE PLUS ULTRA
r»jr
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Floors that reflect credit
oil the Householder!
Modernise your home by
Introducing
Distinguished for
Beauty of Finish. Free Working
Hard Wear.
Manufactured by
TAUBMANS LIMITED
Superfine Varnish Makers
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE.
Sold and Recommended by all Leading
Stores ■
CENTAL
Hotel
Accepted as
Melbourne’s Finest
Achievement in high-
class Hotel Service.
M. L. McRAE,
Proprietress.
’Phone Cent. 4954.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club.)
m
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
From
Daveid jones
[?]
SYDNEY
The Conan Doyle lectures brought all
those who sit in darkness and hold hands
therein to the Town Hall last week. They
snared in also the merely curious who are
always hunting for a thrill; but these must
have gone away empty-handed, for they only
found an elderly man who sounded like a
lay-preacher exhorting his- congregation to
keep pure of heart that they might enjoy the
heavenly Communion. The heaven that
Conan knows is a jolly, intimate sort of
place, much like the world we live in, minus
tax sickness, State Governors, and
films-with-a-purpose. Many good and ex-
pensive garments without style occupied the
front rows ; one dear old lady had a macrame
shawl moored to the promontory of her old-
fashioned figure by a monster cairngorm. The
older ladies showed a tendency to wear sweep-
ing black dresses, and tightly bunched hair;
the younger men and women had, for the
most part, intelligent, eager, hungry faces.
But when the Spiritualist Choir in the end
raised its voice in “Lead, Kindly Light,” the
mere person hadn’t managed to get a gleam.
Still, there were perfectly bonser cars wait-
ing to pick up many of the faithful, so it is
no wonder they are satisfied to carry on
“business as usual” in the next existence.
The Cheshire Cat was so tired that she
stood nursing her own tail, and many of the
very little ones drooped on chairs around
the vestibule wall trying valiantly to keep
wide-awake. It was a quarter to eight, and
the fancy sets were being placed in position
for the march past the vice-regal dais, where
Dame Margaret, in patches, with a coquettish
shoulder-ringlet quite in the Kitty Bellairs
style, waited with Sir Walter, banked by
Knoxes and Allens and Onslows; for thb Bal-
loon Ball in aid of Havilah was quite the
swank “charity dance” of the season. So
the little Kate Greenawmys, the Flower Chil-
dren, the darling Ring-a-Rosies, Boy Blues,
Red Indians qnd Quaker maids picked them-
selves out .of the seething jamb, and packed
up closely to their companions; and pre-
sently the dividing doors were flung back,
and into the atmosphere of a Town Hall—a
Town Hall so sparkling and balloony it
looked as if a puff would blow it around the
world and back again—stepped first of all
Moira Brady as the Spirit of the Ball. Next
came Ryder Swinson in a Somersetshire
smock leading his flower garden ; Bo Peep
and her sheep and all the rest of the nursery
rhymes in their very best frocks; and Miss
Scully’s copyrighted Spring set, a bunch of
beauty and cuddlesomeness. And so on, in
a seemingly endless procession, under the
'balloons that nodded and bobbed friendly
heads from every column. From the ceiling
they flung down all the magic gleams that
ever sparkled from Aladdin’s lamp. There
were fairy boats swinging high in. the air,
and there was the adventure of staying up
late “after the stars are out” over every-
thing.
There were hundreds of grown-ups who
mostly stayed off the floor until the kiddies
had departed; but some mature fancy cos-
tumes snatched the ground from under the
kiddies’ feet. One grown-up costume caused a
gasp. It was just as long as a S. M. Herald
sheet (fancy Mister James’s face if he had
seen it!), starting above the waistline to form
the bodice, with, what was left over serving for
skirt. Somebody said it was “short enough
to be interesting”; but that was partly
because the wearer’s legs were straight and her
knees suggested dimples. Morna MacCormick
carried off a prize as a fairy story; the
Nursery Rhymes gained the first prize as a
set, Spi’ing came second, and Alice in Won-
derland third; The Indasia, set was led by a
small person who had found the secret of
perpetual motion. The Quakers were perfect
peaches, and Bob Meares was David Copper-
field ; there were stockmen and the tiniest
Mother Goose on record, who left big sister
to look after the bird and the egg-laying com-
petition while she made an onslaught on the
Queen of Sheba’s jewelled outfit. The Queen
of Sheba was, a languid and aloof small per-
son, who fanned herself with regal move-
ments. When Governor Davidson came down
from the dais to ask her name, she gave him
a brief look and, deciding he was no Solomon,
replied, still fanning herself, “Queen Sheba.”
A little Hawaiian Maid was clothed in a
coat of henna and a grass kilt, and another
small child appeared in the distance to be
dressed with a white muslin frill. A small
friendly Dibbs boy flapped a joyful wing as
the Blue Bird; Daphne and Diana Davidson
grew in the Flower set, and lovely but self-
possessed Rachel Joy Morton tilted a rosy
face from under a petalled hat. One of the
Mighty wore a dress that suggested a bad
attack of sea sickness, or Jealousy in excelsis.
Artists Florence Rodway, Moore, Longstaff
and Souter, Mr. Westmacott, Dora Ohlfsen,
and Mrs. Swinson held the scales of Judg-
ment, and good-natured Mrs. Sargent was
fairy godmother to a whole kindergarten.
Despite the downpours in the early even-
ing all musical Sydney turned out to lap
up the soulful refreshment o‘f Granville Ban-
tock’s Omar Khayyam as poured out from
the music gourds of the Royal Philharmonics,
with Joe Bradley in charge. There’s a queer
tug-of-war between the music, which is alto-
gether Oriental in character and atmosphere,
and the Fitzgerald quatrains, which in
manner and rhythm are as thoroughly of
the West as was the quaint old gentleman
himself who used to go striding along Eng-
lish country lanes, his hat tied firmly
under his chain with a bootlace, shouting the
flaming crocus of his verse in the teeth of
the March wind. However, that was no
concern of the Harmonics, who sat aloft,
the men penguin-breasted in their evening
suits, the women wearing a breastwork of
flaming red ribbon warranted to keep off
chest colds, and sang the queer music that
sounded a mixture of Maori tangi. Chinese
funeral and Highland gathering. Will Dalli-
son made the rather lachrymose poet seem
convincing. English girl Ethel Qonstance
lifted a sweet contralto that sounded as
though it were haunted, and the Philosopher
was expounded by Leslie MacCallum. Wasn’t
it Trollope who said that Life would be toler-
able only for its amusements?
The Women Painters were fortunate in
having Lionel Lindsay to talk etching to
them last week. Not only ’ did Lionel talk,
but he got his coat off and illustrated his
words by press and plate. Julian Ashton
led Lionel forward to the company and
threw, a complimentary, word or two at his
old friend “Hop” for introducing the art t<s
Australia 35 years ago. All the budding
artists were there, and the already-arriveds
rolled up in force; and John Sulman passed
the word of thanks to the evening’s Lionel.
Once Dowell
O’Reilly found him-
self a member of the
N. S. Wales Parlia-
ment, and he doesn’t
know to this day
how the mysterious
thing happened.
Anyone mp r e un-
fitted for the rough
and tumble of an
election you can’t
conceive. Read the
story of the deaf-
a n d-dumb people’s
nicific as he tells it
in his new book,
“Fivecorners,” and
you will know the
m a n—t h e gentlest
literary artist in
Sydney.
The Journalists turned out in strength to
greet Conan Doyle at Farmers’ last week
and found him something like his own Mr.
Watson—very mellow, and colored a good-
natured tone by Coronas and sound wines
and old Scotch. Mr. Watson must have been
like that —so intent on watching the ash form
on his sumptuous smoke that he didn’t care
how .uppish the sure-to-be-right Sherlock
Holmes might be.
The visitor is a delightful old chap with a
head shaped like the one owned by our own
Donald Fraser, who believes in much the
same brand of spooks, and it holds as good a
collection of sit-by-the-fire stories as ever
charmed a circle of listeners. In an after-
lunch speech that lasted only a few moments
he flashed out vignettes of Kipling, Barrie
and Wells, and painted a charming miniature
of Oscar Wilde as he was at the. time he
wrote his “Dorian Grey,’* with God knows*
what terrors whispering in his ears. Mere-
dith he knew; Doyle often dined with him at
Boxliill, after gaining the old man’s regard
by his capacity for mopping up a large bottle
of Burgundy at one sitting. Meredith on
that first occasion remarked to the maid who
carried in a shaking, shivering mass, for the
sweet course: “Methinks, Betty, this jelly
is as treacherous as the Trojan horse.” Pic-
ture the face of a Mosman or Ivirribilli par-
lormaid if her employer indulged in such
pleasantry. And if you said it to one of the
girls in Sargent’s she’d probably take you
for a bookie’s clerk, and ask you if you
knew anything good for Saturday.
Conan ate his four oysters in splendid
isolation, Jeffrey of the News on his right
hand (Dr. Doyle hails Jeffrey as his only
living patient); and flung his remarks to Mrs.
McKay’s Pagoda hat. Adam McKay sat in
the chair because Tom Ileney was away, and
didn’t seem to find it a good fit. The Conan
Doyle lady was perhaps luckier than her
spouse, as H. R. Denison, just back from his
Press Conference with a somewhat reduced
waistline, kept her supplied with a running
fire of pepper and salt and wit. She has a
trick of quick, nervy movements, and wore
charming Frenchy-grey frocking and a soft
black hat, adorable rings, and a diamond pen-
dant that there was nothing at all spooky
about —plain, outright material enough to
satisfy any woman, Jew or Gentile. Campbell
Jones, Mrs. Curlewis in stripes and Mrs.
Lancelot Harrison colored like a fawn sat
two or three removed from the Mighty. (The
Institute used to be almost excusively a Her-
ald proprietary ; now it is becoming a Sun
syndicate.) Mrs. Baverstock came from Jer-
vis Bay to the bone-picking, and Mrs. Percy
Hunter was with her.
By her sudden death, after a very short
illness, Eileen Teece has left a gap not easily
filled among the good-workers of Sydney, and
just before the £20,000 necessary to endow
the Edith Cavell Home for Nurses had been
realised. The Edith Cavill Home has been
her chick, and she and Ethel Davey have
almost pushed it to complete independence.
The Teeces have always been drawn to good
works; another of the family, Mrs. Little-
john, brings to committee organising all the
gifts with which her father wove together
the A.M.P.
The fete at the Ryde Home for Incurables
netted over £6OO. That’s the record so far,
and when you realise that it’s done in a
three-hour afternoon, it’s three cheers for
Maggie Thwaites, Matron Mann (who did
her bit all the great afternoon), and the
patients.
Mrs. Colvin, back in Sydney, is prettier
and' more graceful than ever, and looks like
a not-so-much-older sister of her own 17-
year daughter Kathleen Osborne. The new;
husband is still in Burmah, where Mrs. Col-
vin rejoins him in three months’ time. The
Rangoon heat and a desire to see the child-
ren are responsible for the amazing lady’s
visit to Sydney.
Curly-headed Ray Rockwell became Mrs.
John Deans, of Strathfield, the other day.
John, who was a soldier, now helps to run
the tramways. St. Clement’s, Marrickville,
saw the ceremony, and Tasmania the honey-
moon.
Valda Nott, of Neutral Bay, became Mrs.
William Plenry Nunn-Patrick at St. Peter’s,
Neutral Bay, last week. Valda has no sis-
ters of her own, so her brocade train with its
shell-pink lining was spread out and followed
by sister-in-law Shelagh in honey-colored
georgette and a mass of blue delphiniums.
Best-man Hopkins and bridegroom William,
who served five years at the war, came to
the ordeal in their khaki.
Lilia Haes, of the North Shore, is an-
other beringed one. Barron Cowper, a
grandson of the old Dean, is her you'ng man.
Ruby Russell Collins, youngest bud of the
Edwin Collinses, is wearing the usual stand-
off signal in the interests of C. A. Coombes,
of Newcastle. Charlie got his Military
Medal with the 9th Field Ambulance.
Clare Wheeler, the pretty blonde younger
daughter of the Walter Wheelers, of Mosman
and one time of Hay, has promised to marry
Charlie liidgeock, of Pevensey Station.
Charlie is an ex-soldier, and Riverina feels
lonely now that his mother has adopted
Toorak and sister Merve has married her
Dr. Cust. Another good-looking Wheeler
girl, Stella, became Mrs. Ralph Boyd, of
Manila, a few months ago, and sends beauti-
ful post-card photos of herself and her young
oil king. New York will be their address
early in the New Year.
Brisbane’s weddings and other worries: —
Returned-soldier patients at Rosemount gave
Matron Wilson a farewell tea-party the other day,
and Lt.-001. Meehan fastened on her wrist a gold
watch, the combined tjhanksoffering of staff and
patients.
The last day of the Q.T.C. Nbvember meeting
saw a large and well-frocked crowd at Ascot. The
Lt.-Gov. with Mrs. and Miss Lennon and a niece
from Melbourne arrived early, and Mrs. Ted Theo-
dore and Mrs. Jack Fihelly kept up the reputation
our Ministers’ wives have earned for good dressing.
Can any old identity tell what historic home
lives on a Conrad Maartens canvas, “ltavenscott,
on the Brisbane, 1853”? Various people have
offered to identify the place, but nearly every one
has a different “historic spot” in his mind. Mrs.
Jones, wife of the late Canon, says that Ravenscott
once stood on Kangaroo Point, that she lived in it
for some years and that it was destroyed in the ’93
flood. It has been suggested, too, that it is the
house to which the late Mrs. Bond, mother of
Mr. L. M. Bond and of Capt. Tom Bond, D. 5.0.,
went as a bride.
Ethel Allen, younger daughter of the James Allens,
is to be married shortly to Eric Boden. Connie
Edwards gave the bride-to-be a “pink” kitchen tea
last week; and the guests won’t finish talking about
the decorations till the New Year.
Queensland people who want to give Christmas
presents should get in early and place orders with
soldier-patients who have become expert toy-makers
and leather workers under the tuition of the handi-
crafts section of the Red Cross. Nothing bucks a
long-sick Digger up so much as to be able to earn
a bit for himself, and, besides, these goods are
excellent and well worth their price.
Rhona Campbell, whose marriage to Gavin Mur-
ray, one of the five sons of John Murray, formerly
Minister for Education, is due soon, was tea-ed at
the National one afternoon last week by Jessie
Murray. The decorations were all blue, and each
guest received a blue-bird favor. A band provided
jazz music, and before very long most of the guests
were jazzing, too.
To celebrate the homecoming from the
U.S.A. of youngest daughter Dorothy, who
has reached the hair-up stage now, the Frank
Coffees gave a dance at Iroquois last week.
The gardens were ablaze with electric bulbs,
and the big crowd of guests danced away till
the milkman was sighted.
Margaret and Denis Allen are setting off
for their travels in India. The Malwa picks
them up at Adelaide. By the sanje boat
Mrs. Ralph Verney, her nurse and several
offspring take passage once more for Eng-
land.
Here is Leon Berliner—he comes now from
Brisbane, though he was born in Adelaide —
whose musical com-
positions have found
such favor that a
big New York house
is publishing them,
commencing with his
“M arch of the
Trolls.” Allen’s, of
Melbourne, intro-
duced his wares to
the New Yorkers.
Lately he has writ-
ten some of the
charming music that
is the accompani-
ment to the Justin
Vaughan Flynn reci-
tals. Apart from
his imaginative
.lapses Leon is a
sound young busi-
ness man, with a neat taste in socks.
Mrs. Yivers (Irene Marks) is still sick
abed. It is eight weeks now since the
trouble started in a heavy chill.
The Rose Bay nuns beamed under their
beautifully goiffred white caps on Saturday
afternoon because by good fortune the
bouquet of red carnations handed over to
Lady Davidson toned in with the color
scheme of her dressing. The D’Apice couple
—she was an old Rose Bay pupil—attended
the Dame, who was a note of admiration
over the grounds and the Convent Chapel;
and indeed the grounds are very charming,
with their trees and their glimpse of the
wide stretches of the harbor. All the usual
stalls—fancy goods, sweets and toys—and
innumerable raffles snared the fugitive silver
coin that goes to furnish a ward in the Sol-
diers’ Memorial Wing at St. Vincent’s.
Even as the funds of Hayilah were
steadily “going up” in the Town Hall,
Bachelor Benedick and his knife-tongued
Beatrice waged their war of wife against a
green-draped background in St. James’s
Hall. Master Will Shakspeare’s “Much
Ado About Nothing” suffered nothing at
the hands of the Women Shakspeare Players
under Eleanor Ross. Eleanor herself was
the self-sufficient young.man, and Gfene Mag-
nus the battledore who banged the shuttle-
cock of his fancy so hard that Benedick re-
solved that he might as well marry the
girl. The comedy went with a sparkle, and
the flowers handed up at the final curtain
would have amazed Sally Siddons. Shell-
shocked soldiers benefit by the takings.
Celia Ghiloni has taken the plunge once
more and this time is Mrs. Alfred James
Mel lor. The deed was done at St. Mary’s,
South Perth, where the home is to be.
Mel lor is on the W.A. Stock Exchange.
Conan Doyle mentioned the other day
that it was a son of Arthur Richard who
gave him his first view of a modern battle.
This was Lance Rickard, who was one of
the youngest majors in the A.I.F. He was
also one of the few men in the Army who
won a Military Gross, was ordered/ to take
it down and then ordered to put it up again.
The catastrophe occurred in Flanders, and
was due to a mistake on the pa-rt of one of
those warrior-clerks who attended to the
gasj.ettals.
Sydney-boy Cecil Sherwood, whose dad
used to keep the Bobbies' in order, has made
a hit in London. He is now off to fill a
splendid engagement in Italy.
He was a cheerful drunk, and he stood
smilingly observing the picture of the life-
size bath from which, the- head and one arm
of the beautiful bathing lady emerge, while
the letterpress advertises Aphrodite Soap.
Suddenly his hand beat the air after the
manner of Henri Verbrugghen, and his voice
lifted itself in “God Save.” People dashing
for their ferries stood stock-still, and the
traffic at the Quay threatened to become con-
gested. . “That will do, my man,” said the
constable. “You can’t make that noise here.”
The drunk drew P.C. 657 confidentially
towards him and whispered, “Let’s try again.
I’m sure she’s loyal. She’ll stand up in a
minute!”


ESTB
1853
JEWELLERS
High Quality
Diamond & Gem Jewellery
in New Designs.
Illustrated catalogues, containing numerous suggestions for
Christmas, Wedding and Complimentary Gifts, posted- free on
application.
15ct. Gold and Diamond Bracelet.
Diamond and Platinum
Bow Brooch.
Diamond Fancy
Shape Ring.
Diamond and
Platinum Pendant,
complete with
Platinum Chain.
Diamond and Specimen
Black Opal Brooch.
Diamond Fancy
Shape Ring.
Prices and full particulars will be furnished on application.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
IJ6-U8 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
298 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
PRESERVE THE SUMMER
Snapshots really worth while saving, those that will hold their
interest longest, must be taken with a good camera.
Takes photos 234 in- hy 334 in.
ANSCO V.P.
No. 2
is an idea! camera for snapshot
work. Its shape and size are
compact, and it is fitted with an
anastigmat lens in focussing
mount, a feature rarely seen in
vest-pocket cameras.
£8
PRICES:
Ansco V.P. No. 2, with Modico Anastigmat
lens F 7.5
Ansco V.P. No. 2, with Ansco Anastigmat
lens F 6.3 , £9/15/-
The House for GOOD Cameras,.
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
Also at
93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Run die Street, Adelaide.
144 Queen Street, Auckland:
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Works and Laboratories: Booth and Trafalgar Streets, Annandale, N.S.W.
BUCKLEY’S
(Melbourne’s Leading: Clothiers)
SPECIAL SUIT
8£ GUINEAS
These Special Suits are each a
masterpiece in value. Smartly
styled and dependable in wear
they represent the most attractive
offer in the Men’s Suit World of
to-day.
We have assembled a choice
selection of All-Wool Tweeds,
in a beautiful range of de-
signs and colorings, repre-
senting the finest-made
Woollen Products in Aus-
tralia.
Everyone who pos-
sibly can should
make a point of
inspecting these
Special Suitings in
our Tailoring De-
partment, whilst
the opportunity
lasts, but for those
to whom this is im-
possible there is the
medium of the post,
by which anyone
living at a distance
can share in this
wonderful offer.
Write for samples
and self-measure-
ment form, sent
free on request,
quoting Number
R 125.
£3k
LyftMdrtitiii " i
"IF
l
BUCKLEYS
BUCKLEY C NUNN LTD. BOUR.KE ST. MELBOURNE,
MAIL ORDER SERVICE
WE PAY CARRIAGE
TO ANY POST OFFICE
RAILWAY STN.OR PQRT
IN AUSTRALIA
w
r.
'vf
OR
\ if r ,4A
F
>T3 n
ffj
irmw Mmmm—mm*.
.C
fljCWfe
-
S' vs
fr+ *&
S’
■s
sy
**»
ff"
vf^‘. ''.
,S * 'Nu* >., <r
oilmen
f>v-
ff
Hi
m f
m
sm
/•V.
W'i'iST
J.O'
W
07
? r,
252
SSS?
P URE FOODS
Send for this Interesting
“Rex” Booklet
Just off the press is a handsomely printed 36 page
booklet—taking you “A Little Journey” through
the home of “Rex” Pure Foods.
This is not a recipe book —but an interesting story
of how “Rex” Pure Foods are prepared and
packed.
Each copy of this book cost sixpence to produce.
Send a Id. stamp to cover, postage and we will
mail you a copy by return.
Address your letter to our nearest office.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
BRISBANE, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BENDIGO, PERTH.
J 3951


FOR
ARCHITECTS. ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
mm
Bmrnmrn
ADE
Persectior\
F»irSM: RUBBER
Learn to Draw
There’s Money
in the
Pen.
The above ,
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
stamps ’ to-day
for a copy of
this booklet —
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
20 Union House, Cr. George & Crosvenor Sts.,
SYDNEY.
We Desire
to Buy
PLATINUM, at £l2 per ounce.
OLD GOLD and SILVER, for
Melting Purposes.
DIAMONDS. PEARLS and other
Fine Gems.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd,
23 Hunter St,
SYDNEY.
DISTINCTIVE
YET
COMFORTABLE.
Abbey Shoes are appreciated by dressy
men on account of the comfort and ease
they provide. They are cut on lines to
ensure these good points in footwear.
We feature a smart made-to-order style in
Tan Willow Calf.
Prices: 45/- & 57/6
Patent Bals., dull legs: 67/6
Box Calf Bals 47/6
In full sizes and D and E fittings.
Postage Extra. Write for Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between Q.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
The Best Place for Your Savings.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY
(with 144 Branches and 506 Agencies).
41
INTEREST
on deposits up to £5OO
and 3| per cent, on any
excess up to £lOOO.
41
Personal, joint and trust accounts opened.
fIEASuCOOL. SPARKLING
KING OF TABLE WATERS
Lime.Sodd.Lilliid & Magnesia
AGENTS /° . ,
P^'j„ , I
MelbouniP DalldM<&M|<iwj'
PURVEYORS tO VICE ROYAL! Y.
LYV
*=33 c-A-c- []gj
IFlfl CA-Cjlp:
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND
BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA—CoIIins House. Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES—SB Pitt Street, Sydney • - - Phone City 2677
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane Phone 2382
A
vs*
08.
/ Unhampered Enjoyment
The luxury of free motion is enjoyed to the
full when fhe undergarments give with every
movement.
Pulling, Binding, Rucking—all are troubles of the past
if the fleecy, woven-to-fit, unshrinkable Jason garments
are worn.
Ask to see Jason Underwear at your stores: warm
and cold weather weights in all sires and styles
Aik-WOOL UN3HRU*KA*t*
UNDERWEAR
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
Nnv " Olympic" Brand. Owing to the high prices of yarns
from which Jason all-wool goods are made, the mamifacturers
have introduced temporarily lower lines containing a percent-
age of cotton— bearing otherwise the sameguarantee of Quality
as the regular lines. Your dealer will supply you, 9
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Hercules Oil Engines
This Engine is Built Throughout at
Our Own Works.
Best BRITISH MODEL (operating
entirely on Kerosene, no petrol even
for starting); starting effected by
Lamp, which is removed immediately
after.
NUMEROUS SATISFIED USERS.
MADE IN SIZES—3, 4,5, 6£ and 8 BRAKE-HORSEPOWER.
Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd.
MERCHANTS, ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS.
418-424 AND 450-460 ANN STREET. BRISBANE.
(Trams pass near by.) Works—Yeerongpilly. [2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Vo notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions ■volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Alys B.: Not quite enough story in it to
pull it through W. M. Royds (Rockhampton) : It
is hereby placed on record that your firm inspected
stock by ’plane three weeks before the other crowd.
.... Tarwin: Every time we meet that yarn we wish
it was new....P. Simonoff: No printer’s error,
Peter. A Vienna cablegram published in the Aus-
tralian capitals on Oct. 21 mentioned that the Aus-
trian elections had resulted in the return of 78
Christian Socialists, 63 Social Democrats, and 34
Pan-Germans, and that the Communists had been
practically routed. Wretched as Austria’s posi-
tion is she refuses to sink to the depth of misery
that Russia has reached by adopting the Oriental
socialism that Lenin preaches Miller: The Aus-
tralian Fred Leslie wears an A. to his name in
London, to distinguish him from the Fred Leslie
who is the son of the old English comedian. And
he might have made it Fred A 1 Leslie without
overstating the case... .Helen M.: The “chief faults”
are that the verses say what others have said and
don’t say it quite as we 11... .F.G.S.: Not well
enough done... .D.A.A.: Nothing there. .. .Oliver B.:
Let it go !:
. ...J.R.: “Sundown” doesn’t move us to invite you
in to camp under this pink roof. .. .Emfcos: “Me-
thinlts” it isn’t worth while... .Adrian: “North
Wind” misses... .Wanda D.: “Epitaph” doesn’t in-
terest .... M. J.N.: Horrible yarn.... Llednoe: Not
much in just saying you want to go in the train.
.. . .L.S. (Forest Lodge): The “merry glee” of the
farmer’s daughter isn’t convincing... .M.S. (Pad-
dington): Verse very lumpy.... Ernest G.: Must be
a lot better than that. .. .Jaguar: It hasn’t the feel-
ing. .. .Scaney: Nothing there. .. .F.J.G.8.: Your
verse on “The Drover” seems to have been made by
mixing sawdust and ashes with “Clancy of the Over*
f10w”.... Lamimooi: Commonplace in poor verse.
.. ..K.W. (Elsternwick) : A rhyme like “low” and
“now” knocks a little thing like that all out of
tune... .E.J.A.J.: Dreary. .. .Nosnibor: Doesn’t look,
taste, smell, feel or sound like verse... .Louburke:
Yarn too mechanical... .D.H.Y.: What an original
mind you have to note that sunrise and sunset go
on pretty constantly!... .John W.: Not enough there.
. ...C.R.C.: “Initiative” wants better telling; put
a little life into it R. 5.8.: An old story unat-
tractively told....Ewa: Terrible verse... .E.J.G.:
“Lantern in the Bail” has too many rough edges... .
J.D.H.: Bad... .E.J.A.J.: Not up. Whatever The
Bulletin prints it pays f0r.... Eric F.: Verse must
be a lot better than that... .H.G.C.: Old common-
places tortured into rhyme R.J.E.: We don’t
reprint: and, anyhow, the verses are too crude.
. ...J.H.8.: “Vital Message” not well enough done.
....John B.: Dull and empty.... Roy: Poor, thin
little thing... .R.Me.: All that has been said so
often and so much better... .Aspiration: Pencil
scrawl rejected... .Lesam: Heavy and dull as yester-
day’s suet pudding C.P.S.: It hasn’t the strength
to pull through.... Chick S.: “Drovers” are very
numerous and yours is very ordinary... .S.H.S.:
Doesn’t make a yarn.... J.A.M.: Verse so rugged
that we looked for goats on the craga of it.... John
M. : Horrible lines Ink Pot: N 0... .Shallus: Not
for us... .Harry H.: Verse goes very p00r1y..,..
Nancy F.: Doesn’t strike us... . J.M.P.: Just fair
verse with no real emotion in it... .Gingie: “Joe
Curtis” isn’t interesting enough to introduce to
the congregation... .J.H.S.: The verse wants ironing
out... .A.N. (Geelong) : Not up... .F.J.K.: The yarn
seems to have neither beginning nor end... .E.D.L.:
(All right. We’ll “Beware.” But what is a “cohart,”
anyhow ?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.C.: The squint-eyed gentleman with the ham-
bone hand who is treading on his own corns has
our sympathy... .E.W.M.: Amateurish trifles....,
H.T.: Not nearly good enough... .M.W.: Impossible
ink-splashings...-D.McF.: Discharged under the
First Offenders Act as an artist: two years’ solitary
for the double-pun... .E. A.: Painful crudities....
N. : The Cubist dust-storm in the background is
its chief merit. .. .N.8.-B.: Scratchy... .W.S.Y.: A
poor little effort... .E.S.: Not one of your eight
flappers with freak necks deserves the glad-eye....
G.M.: No promise.
The little old Ferret has finished her
eventful career at last, having piled up on
Yorke’s Peninsula (S.A.), near the Al-
thorpes, in a dense fog. The weather was
quite calm, but the Antarctic swell always
present there bumped her to bits. The crew
helped themselves ashore by way of the old
wreck of the barque Atholl close at hand.
The Ferret was just half a century old,
Glasgow-built. She was romantically stolen
from the Highland Kailway Co. and came
half round the world as the India, but was
recognised in Melbourne, where the amateur
pirates were gaoled. Since then she has been
doing steady coastal trade, latterly for the
Adelaide Steamship Co.
“Dip Flag”: To my friend Jopiser pat-
riotism and kindred things are measured in
terms of flag-waving. The occasion that
really warmed his heart was Armistice Day,
1918, when he sold £27 15s. worth of flags
(his shop is in Swanston-street, Melbourne)
at 3d. and 6d. each. He remarks with pride,
tempered with regret, that he could have
sold nearly as many that day at (jd, and Is.,
but admits that, anyway, the profit was
round about 100 per cent. The next best
day was that on which Archbishop Mannix
left Melbourne: it turned him in £6 for
green flags and Irish harps. The Prince
of Wales came a bad third with £2 ss. on
the day of his arrival. Peace Day panned
out a measly pound.
Over there, oh, where our dear heroes lie.
Can one forget our loved ones true ?
We feel the pain, the sting, and sigh,
Memory is fresh still of the sad news.
Oh! That glory still shines, still rings in our ears,
The battle over, the brave had won;
Some went through, and through for years;
Served the Empire, stuck to’ their guns.
Oh! But then the sadness still it brings,
We mourn for those left behind ;
Their names will shine, forever ring,
On a tombstone, you’ll find.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE.
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Calines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2, 4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls.
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, DECEMBER 22,
SONOMA.
10,0U0 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
T H E North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
T.S.S. WOLLONGBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger arrives in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger arrives in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/10/10.
Second Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail,
£2/17/3.
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: -3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
TH£
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY : Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G.;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE AVORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 796,655 10 0
Reserve Fund ~ .. .. .. 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors— Geo. Edwd. Bunuing, Esq. (Chairman) ;
lion. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. : James Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
Acting General Manager — M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up ~ .. .. . . £1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. £200,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lvsagiit, Chairman; George
J. Sly, LLD.; Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A. ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
. STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £629,983
Preference Shares 760,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,600,000)
Paid-up 1,496,666
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,646,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST. AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, December 16.
R.M.S. MAKURA, January 13.
And every 28 days thereafter.
HONOLULU SEASON—SPECIAL TOURS.
December to March.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
Tile Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM WELLINGTON ;
R.M.S. MARAMA, December 7.
R.M.S. TOFUA, JANUARY 7.
Connecting Steamers from Sydney, Dec. 2, Dec. 30.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO . UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
White Star Line
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Australia to London and Liverpool via
South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCUES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
MIETIADES 8,000 tons
MARATHON 8,000 tons
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Directors:
- £4,765,700
- 3,275,000
- 4,765,700
£12,806,400
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buekland. H sq. _ .
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street. E.C.
351 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
HEAD OFFICE
3M ot 3mtralta
SYnNKV ■
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2802 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor July Ist, 1920 Governor
Shipping.
INTERSTATE STEAMSHIP SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE.
FOR BRISBANE,
PORT ALMA, MACKAY, BOWEN JETTY, TOWNS-
VILLE JETTY and CAIRNS (transhipping at
Brisbane for. Maryborough, Bundaberg and Glad-
stone, and at Townsville for outports).
*T-rahships at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
tCarries Ist, 2nd and 3rd-class passengers.
♦Carries Ist and 2nd-class passengers,
ICarries Ist and 3rd-elass passengers.
Huddart ParkerLlM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address:
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton S Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. EtcL
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Eimited.
Blackheatli Collieries Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners,
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.
A Profoundly
Accurate
Watch.
Gent.’s Open-face Oxidised
Steel, 15-jewelled Lever
Super Fx & R Watch,
84/-
“Fx & R”
Watches are pro-
foundly accurate
and dependable.
We KNOW
this, as we
have sold tens
of thousands of
them, and have
over 30 years’
experience o f
their perform-
ances under all conditions of Australian and
South Sea living.
They are -f-plate Levers.
They have compensated and adjusted balances.
They are jewelled throughout wherever hard
wear occurs.
They have brequet hairsprings.
They are specially strong cases.
They are made for us for Australian wear.
They are profoundly accurate and unusuallv
strong.
They are made in all sizes, from the dainty
wristlet size to the Goliath Folding Watch.
They are the cheapest GOOD watch we know
of.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
TIVOII THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVENINGS AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
LEE white,
in THE GIRL FOR THE BOY,
BAILEY & COWAN, with ESTELLE DAVIS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
’Phone 9924 for Reserves.
“|"IVOLI THEATRE, JIELIiOU IiNE.
LAST THREE NIGHTS.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents another Musical
Masterpiece.
MAGGIE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, DECEMBER 11,
- CHU CHIN CHOW.
A Musical Extravaganza of the Orient.
Prices as usual.
O Y D N E Y’S CHIEF THEATRE.
J. G, Williamson, Ltd., Direction.
OFFER
HER MAJESTY’S.
SO GONG, LETTY.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 27.
MIKADO.
First of the Gilbert and Sullivan Operas.
CRITERION.
IRENE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 27,
THE GIRL IN THE TAXI. -
PALACE.
MARIE TEMPEST and GRAHAM BROWNE,
AT THE BARN.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 27,
PENELOPE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, DECEMBER 4,
OUTCAST.
CONAN DOYLE’S FAREWELL LECTURE
IN THE TOWN HALL.
Saturday Afternoon, November 27, at 2.30 p.m.
SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE.
SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE.
M.D., LLD.
Will deliver a farewell illustrated lecture at
POPULAR PRICES.
Front Seats and Balcony, 2/-. Area and Back, 1/-
2/- tickets on sale at Coles’. Front chairs may be
reserved at Coles’ on payment of a booking fee of 1/-.
_ ; CARLYLE SMYTHE.
EPERTORY THEA T R E, SYDNEY^
J. & N. TAIT’S REPERTORY COMPANY,
Stage Direction of Gregan McMahon.
SATURDAY, NOV. 27; WEDNESDAY, DEC. 1.
THE TWO MR. WEATHERBYS.
SATURDAY. DEC. 4 ; WEDNESDAY, DEC. 8.
GETTING MARRIED.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s,
yNI O N PIC TII R E TIIEA T R E >
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC. EMPRESS
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
C. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
■ ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
The Musical Comedy that exceeds the speed limit,
THE BOY.
THEATRE ROYAL.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
The Famous Traveller and Explorer,
LOWELL THOMAS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
|yj ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPII, PATHE
WORLD and SELZNICIC.
Amusements.
KING’S THEATRE. MELIIO C It N IS.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
1 J. C. Williamson, Ltd., present John D. O’Hara in
| SHORE ACRES, Plan at Allan’s.
A Comedy Drama of Laughter and Thrills.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
THE WONDERFUL TRAVEL PICTURE.
SHIPWRECKED AMONG CANNIBALS.
FRANK MAYO in
BURNT WINGS.
Prices as usual.
__ __ - - - ' ~
GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
THE COURAGE OF MARGE O’DOON.
Matinfies daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
BRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Auction Sale.
TUESDAY, 7th DECEMBER, at 3 p.m.
TO MERCHANTS, WAREHOUSEMEN AND
MANUFACTURERS.
Auction Sale of
Magnificent Warehouse Site
in centre of the City of Perth.
W. A. LEARMONTH, DUt’FY & CO.,
under instructions from
THE TRUSTEES of the ESTATE of the
LATE JOHN NORTON,
will offer
BY PUBLIC AUCTION,
at the
PALACE HOTEL, PERTH,
on above date.
Perth Town Lot P 9, with a double frontage of 99
feet to Murray Street and 103 feet to Wellington
Street by a through depth of 402 feet, between
Government Mines Department Buildings and Mac-
farlane’s Stores, and is third block from Pier Street.
THIS IS THE ONLY REMAINING VACANT LAND
IN THE MAIN BUSINESS AREA OF THE CITY.
Missing Friends.
KELATIVES of the late MARTIN
) IRWIN, native of Wicklow, Ireland,
please communicate with the undersigned.
Property left. J. REID STEWART, Mor-
rinsville, Auckland, N.Z.
- - — :
Position Vacant.
DREDGEMASTER.
COMPANY, operating for tin with bucket dredge in
Federated Malay States, requires the services of
a competent dredgemaster, one experienced, in river
dredging preferred ; must be ready to leave immedi-
ately. Salary £BOO per annum; liberal bonus for
three years’ continuous service. Furnished quarters.
Passage paid. Applicants to state age and forward
copies of testimonials to “Bucket Dredge,” Mercan-
tile Exchange, 380 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Edison Amberol Records
for November
The List of Edison Records for November has a variety
of subjects, both grave and gay, of irresistible appeal.
Every number is worthy of a place in your library of
Records, and you should take the opportunity of hearing
them played.
Royal Purple Records.
29U34 —Evviv.a la Francia (France, I Salute
Thee) Daughter of the Regiment.
Soprano in Italian, orch acc.
Frieda Hempel
29035—Cortiginni—Rigoletto. Baritone, in
Italian, orch. acc. Mario Laurenti
29036 —Quis est homo (Who could mark, from
tears refraining)—Stabat Mater,
Soprano and Mezzo-Soprano, in Italian,
orch. aec.
Alice Yerlet and Margaret Matzenauer
29037 —The Chase —Hunting Song. Bass-
Baritone, orch acc. Arthur Middleton
Blue Amberol Records.
3845 —Uncle Josh in a Cafetaria—a Rural
Story. Cal Stewart
3848 — Song That Reached My Heart, “Home,
Sweet Home.” Tenor, orch. acc.
James Lewis
3849 Kilauea —Hawaiian Patrol.
Conway’s Band
3851 Twenty-third Psalm and He Leadeth Me.
—Scripture Lesson with Hymn, organ
and orch. acc.
Rev. William H. Morgan, D.D., and
Calvary Choir.
3852 — To-day, To-morrow and Forever.
Baritone, orch. acc. Edward Allen
3856 — Auld Lang Syne. Mixed Voices, orch.
acc. Old Home Singers
3857 — Race for a Wife. Racetrack Sketch.
Ada Jones and Len Spencer
8859 —Echo. Flute and Cornet, orch acc.
Weyert A. Moor and Pietro Capodiferro
8861 —Heads Up March. Conway’s Band
3866 — I Love to be a Sailor. Glen Ellison
3867 — Shadows. Soprano and Tenor, orch. acc.
Leola Lucey and Charles Hart
3868 — Macushla, Tenor, orch. acc.
Albert Lindquest
3869 Gipsy Girl —Fox Trot.
Tuxedo Dance Orchestra
3871 Shinimee Town—Fox Trot —Ziegfeld
Follies, 1919. Saxophone, Xylophone
and Piano, for Dancing. All Star Trio
3872 Oh, What a Pal Was Mary ! Baritone,
orch. acc. Edward Allen
3874—Faust Waltz. Peerless Orchestra
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Dependable Guns
oH |
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
all metal, very strong.
Price 2/- post free.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
«c
iH
820. The Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel, barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b.
Delivered,
821. The “Cert” Gun, as above, but with X bolt
Delivered,
£O/5/-
WE REPAIR
GUNS g RIFLES
818. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
English D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, 28-inch
barrels, both choke, top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
patent fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib, weight about 741 b. Freight paid,
£lB/18/-
“Koolah” Shaving Sticks
Delightful to Use. 10d. each, post free.
Owing to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
Ttkaca r FieLd.
89. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top lever,
dense Trogan nitrol 30in. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high file-cut rib, pistol
grip, chambered for 2|in. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to -711 b. _
Tested for Nito Powders Freight paid,
£.16/16/
83. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges ; weight
about 71b Freight paid,
£.15/15/-
82.
Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun
Freight paid,
£l5/15/-
POWDER
AUSTRAL 4/6 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 6/- lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 10/0 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
E. C. SMOKELESS 11/9 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS lO O lb.
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
819. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pi«eon Gun, 12-gs§ge, top action, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2iin. cartridges
beautifully engraved, weight about 7Jlb * 1
£l5/15/-
MYRROHL
Made in
America.
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC -CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth ; hardens the gums; prevents decay ; sweetens
the breath and is specially recommended for pyorrhoea.
1 /a tube <nostaae 3d. extra).
.
Steven’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
top action, solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, SOin. or 32in
pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about 6ilb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
ail ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
“-Ejector, 65/-
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.:
4/8 Inter-State-
ILLUSTRATED SPORTSMAN’S GUIDE POST
FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
, 7)flic£ Simmons /ft/,
Headquarters: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES—
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
Banish Backache and Kidney Troubles.
Prove Their Value for Yourself.
For years I have suffered with weak kidneys and backache. At times
the pain in my back was
so severe, it seemed I
could hardly stand it.
Nothing that I took
seemed to do me any
good, although I tried
numerous remedies.
Finally I took a course of
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills,
and am now entirely
cured. I had not been
taking the pills two days
before I could feel the
good effects of same.
They are marvellous pills,
and I can heartily recom-
mend them to anyone suf-
fering from Backache or
Kidney Trouble. They
deserve success, I
shall always recommend
them to my friends.
Sincerely yours,
MURIEL E. DAVIS.
Glenlossie,
Eastern Avenue,
Kensington.
Mrs. M. E. DAVIS {from a photo.').
AS GOOD FOR MEN AS FOR WOMEN
It is no longer necessary for anj one to suffer with Backache, Kidney, Bladder or.
Urinary troubles, or to contend with Rheumatism or Stiff Joints, tor Dr. Sheldon s
Gin Pills quickly remove all such troubles.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are the most wonderful remedy yet devised for ridding
the system of uric acid and driving out all the poisonous impurities. They are
entirely different from all other remedies and act on the principle of cleansing out
the poisons and remedying the cause. No matter how long you have suffered, how
old you are, or what you have used, the principle of Gin Pills is such that it is
practically impossible to take them into the human system without results. They
start to work the minute you take them, and they help you from the first time that
you use them.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, from all Chemists and Storekeepers at 1/6, or in larger
bottles holding more than twice the quantity, for 2/6.
D* Sheldons
BRITISH
SWITCH=GEAR
LTD.
Brookhirst
Standard
B&C Motor Starters
B Type Motor Starters: \ to 100 H.P.,
100 to 550 volts. These starters can
be fitted with time lag.
Solonoid overload trips, calibrated to
trip at any percentage of full load current.
Particulars and Prices from
X %
British-Australian
Engineering' Co., Ltd.
National Mutual Buildings, cr. Queen & Collins Streets, Melbourne.
’Phone: 4031 Central. Box 1303 G.P.0., Melbourne.
.S.W. Agents: AUSTRAL ENGINEERING CO., Kent Street, Sydney.
A. Agents: PARSONS & ROBERTSON, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Queensland Agents: GENERAL MACHINERY & ELECTRICAL CO., Brisbane.
Sonnets of Time.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.].
I. —The Reaper,
reaping late and early, heard me
I singing.
The rain-washed grassy way was
very green ;
And all the sky with laughter seemed to
lean
Low to the happy «od where joy was swing-
ing
A tufted weedy bloom to swift birds winging,
Bill-full, to small grey nests that hung
unseen.
Time sighed, remembering summers that
had been ;
I sang, for all the blossom bells were ringing.
I ran to see the face of that old reaper,
Turned westward from the morning and
, the sun,
Whose scythe laid low what all the winds
had sown.
Ah, days and moments! Truth’s a heavy
sleeper.
I knew at last what these my hands had
done —
Singing, I looked and Time’s face was my
own.
11. Yesterday.
Far fading of high birds in homing flight,
The long tide calling to the ships at sea,
The grey wrecks, weedy-shoaled on
Memory,
Half-seen at utmost ebb of the pale night
When, misty-weak, cold stars of little light
Peer through the black, high fingers of a
tree,
Sunrise on meadows where the winds are
free
And harvest dusk before the moonrise white!
I have walked very far with Yesterday,
And talked a friendly hour with many
ghosts
That dream down time with faces rapt and
still.
Beyond the sunset, far and far away,
Mile upon mile is marked with graven
posts;
And,Joy sits waiting past the farthest hill.
111. — To-morrow.
To-morrow is but yesterday grown wise
To the dream-music of a nobler thought.
Dawn shall be fair, by all the sunsets
taught
To paint with tender magic those new skies,
Till, delicately kind, the sun arise
And scatter largess of gold treasure
brought
From the deep mines old saints and sages
sought,
Who perished with the glamor in their eyes.
To-morrow is the blossom in the seed,
To-morrow is the whole of every part,
The centre of the circle that was blind,
Flame of the ancient smoke, crown of the
deed
To-morrow.... ah, To-morrow we may find
All Yesterday grown tight about the
heart.
IY. —To-day.
This morning, with its bough that flames in
dew,
Is thrilling with the magic of a sun
That blows a bugle for a prize, unwon,
While all the sky has challenge in its blue.
More deeds are here than all the heroes
knew,
A grander race than one swift mind may
run.
Choose, clamorous purpose. When the web
is spun
The threads discarded keep the pattern
true.
The hour shall strike before the ink is dry.
The noontide find the vineyard still
undrest,
The dusk ruri brown before the love is told.
Yet shall life race the sun across the sky
.And win to passionate and holy rest,
Holding To-day before its light is-old.
V. —Forever.
Qn these foundations will I build my tower
"Whose top shall reach to Heaven and kiss
the light:
The morning and the evening and the
night
Of this one day that is my day of power.
About it all the stars of God shall shower
Clear knowledge in my ever-open sight,
A rain of fire immaculately white
That flames against the casements of an
hour.
Then, drawing all eternity for breath
In. master-moments of one conquering day,
I shall have all that was, all that comes
after;
And looking from high balconies on Death
Limping below me in the dusty way.
His time-sick menace I shall greet with
laughter.
n.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Morning Glory.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BILLY PAGAN, as secretary of the
Drinkwater Lodge, 1.0.G.T., No.
147, made attempts at reading of
correspondence inward and outward, halt-
ingly, because almost all his attention was
directed to the assistant-secretary, Norma
Bell, a muddy brunette with a mole on her
chin. Her npse was pug, but the worship-
ping Billy called it in his mind retrousse,
being 16 and in that stage of cqlf-love which
must have its object of adoration older than
itself. He had not dared tell his love, but
let concealment like a worm in the bud feed
on his damask cheek —except when it
desperately bloomed into verses; all of them
anonymous ; all, in fear of his own'unworthi-
ness, pushed under her door when nights
were dark as his despair. For her he had
joined the Drinkwater Lodge; for her he
did the voluminous, futile secretarial work
of the lodge, writing many letters about
nothing to people who didn’t matter; for
her sweet sake he listened to long speeches
against the cursed drink, and bore the tre-
mendous eloquence of the Worthy Chief
and the Past Worthy Chief and the Worthy
Chief to come for ever and ever, amen. He
tolerated even the “humor” of a Very Past
Worthy Chief who joked with great diffi-
culty ; he had showii the persistence of a
bloodhound and the sagacity of an elephant
in securing the election of the muddy brun-
ette as Assistant-Secretary, defeating the
other dangerous candidate —a redhaired girl
who secretly loved him—by four votes.
Happy was he only on the nights of meeting,
when she sat next him as assistant, and he
thrilled when their hands touched; and all
the days between he thought of next meet-
ing, and planned and determined to be a real
man and publish his passion through a mega-
phone. But always when he came to the
cue to speak the lines so well rehearsed he
was tongue-tied with stage fright.
The gulf that yawned between his
own innocent diffidence; and his unworthi-
ness was the defect we all wish could return
after we are 30 —the unworthiness of youth,
the gulf of time, for he was 16 and his god-
dess Norma was 23. That is an age in a
woman that makes most men of 20 but
children; for the sex that is all sex grows up
before it breaks its doll.
To-night he was more uncertain of her
than ever, and it brought a new despair.
The night before he had seen her walking
with the Worthy Guard, brother of the
Worthy Tyler, a scrawny .fellow of 23, thin-
faced, big-nosed, his neck pouched as a vul-
ture’s, dressed in funeral black and wear-
ing lank, thin moustaches like rats’-tails, a
Gladstone collar with long peaks, and a
rhubarb-colored tie as narrow as a shoe-
string. Biliy hated the Worthy Guard be-
cause of the Worthy Assistant-Secretary;
and he hated the Worthy Tyler because,of
his relation to the Worthy Guard; and
whenever he had to mention their alleged
worthiness he choked over it, not being a
hypocrite. So he sat there, very miserable
generally; but strangely elated when she
spoke to him, and thrilling like an electric
wire to the current whenever their hands
touched.
The Assistant-Secretary appeared as igno-
rant of the Worthy Secretary’s hopeless
passion as she was not. Her sex deduces
the imminence of the hurricane from the'
trembling of a leaf; and even when it is
afraid of the storm it lingers, hoping to be
overwhelmed. The Assistant-Secretary had
no room for fear; hope sprang eternal
in her very human breast, and all over her,
and to play with Billy was to play with fire
that could not consume. So, half-cruelly and
all naturally, she spoke to him with a caress
in her voice, and when she handed him
papers as Assistant-Secretary she let their
hands touch for a long second. Once she
leaned over the desk to whisper, while the
Present Worthy Chief droned to the Past
Worthy Chief, and all the brothers and
sisters; and their heads touched. Billy
came out of that encounter blushing; the
woman cool, confident, victorious. And then
she let her eyes wander to the partition that
hid the Worthy Guard and concealed the
Lodge from unregenerate outsiders. And
Billy’s glance followed the place of her in-
terest and made Billy fall in a moment from
the ground-floor of hope into the basement
of despair. He finished the inward and out-
ward correspondence with a self-withdrawn
feeling such as might be felt by a recently
disembodied spirit looking at his own
funeral; and the words of wisdom of the
Worthy Chief, who was Norma Bell’s father,
came to him as the noise of water tumbling
out of an opened sluice.
The Worthy Chief of the time was a small-
eyed, big-nosed, gibbon of a man, conceal-
ing his face behind whiskers, that seemed to
be made of oakum; a man earnestly listen-
ing in great content to the Chinese music
of his own voice booming himself; and in
moments of extreme self-confidence conde-
scending to jokes such as the Judge makes
and the prisoner laughs with in the hope of
shortening the sentence. The universal sol-
vent, alcohol, was with them everywhere.
They ate lollies in the unconscious desire
to extract alcohol from the sugar; they occa-
sionally went to the sea to paddle in water
which gives a slight reaction of alcohol;
they breathed air which also carries a trace
of alcohol, and when they died they would
either be cremated with wood containing
alcohol or be buried in alcoholic earth. The
sea and the land, the animal and vegetable
kingdoms, had all, as component, alcohol —
the alcohol which awaited the early chem-
ists who sought the philosopher’s stone or
the elixir of life, and who were rewarded
by discovering a new liqueur. You simply
told one of those old monks or philosophers
to discover the Fountain of Youth, and he
ended in discovering benedictine or chart-
reuse or some other divine nectar of the
smiling gods. But the Worthy Chief did
not know that; he refreshed his larynx with
another sweet and alcoholic bull’s-eye lolly
and spake upon “The Cur-rse of Derr-r-ink.”
“My de-ar friends,” said the Worthy Chief,
speaking with that long tremolo bleat sup-
posed to signify emotion and sincerity, but
which the Italians cruelly label “il chev-
yote”—“my de-ar friends, we have met to
con-sid-er the ter-r-r-ible ee-vul of the
destroying dee-e-mon, the Cur-r-se of
Der-r-r-ink. When-evah I pass one of these
ho-tels I make up my mind, my de-ah
friends, that they should be called hot-hells
—yes, my friends, not ho-tels but hot-hells.”
That was the cue for laughter, and the
mature smiled, and the immature giggled,
using the poor joke to cover the real reason
of their nervous merriment, which was plain
sex and the weekly propinquity of the Lodge.
In dreams far withdrawn from temper-
ance, that soddened and intemperate lover
Billy Pagan heard him bleat to his end:
heard the announcement that the Lodge’s
next business was “harmony,” and the weird .
and contradictory discords thereto. The
small-boy nuisance who was the Lodge’s star
reciter, spoke his piece, a moral story show-
ing the evils of tobacco. Standing on one
(Continued on next page.)


FIRE
Terrible Burns Broke Out in Inflammation and Poisoning—Suffered Night
and Day—Discharged from Hospital as Incurable.
Mrs. 0.
McCORMACK.
V.
m
X
o
Zam-Buk is Nature’s own, reliable, ever-
ready healer for cuts, bruises, scalds, burns,
running sores, bad legs, ulcers, itching, abra-
sions, mosquito bites, proud flesh, chronic
sores, sore backs, peeling skin, summer rash,
nettle rash, pimples, blisters, children’s
sores, abscesses, ringworm, barber’s rash,
scratches, scalp diseases, rheumatism, sore
feet, heat rashes, boils, sunburn, festering
sores, bleeding piles, swollen knees, swellings,
sprains, scabs, blackheads, chafings, barcoo,
parched skins, insect stings, sore beds,
eczema, poisoned wounds, blind piles,
diseased ankles, stiffness, sores, and injured
or diseased conditions of the skin generally.
Price 1/6 and 3/6 per pot, of all chemist*
and stores, or post free from C. E. Fulford
(Aust.), Ltd., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
WONDERFUL ZAM-BUK HEALING.
/ .
What a blessing Zam-Buk is in the home—how remarkably soothing, wonderfully healing and
powerfully antiseptic are the virtues of this great natural Healer —is strikingly illustrated in the
case of Mrs. Ellen McCormack, of 30 Egan Street, Newtown, Sydney, who writes:—
The Zam-Buk Co.,
Dear Sirs,
Twelve months ago I burnt my left knee through my clothes catching fire. The flames
ate into the flesh and the burns festered and became greatly inflamed, and blood-poison set
in. My leg became in a frightful condition, and it swelled up from the knee to the thigh. 1 went
into a hospital, and, after being unsuccessfully treated for months in the ward, 1 was turned out
incurable, and 1 thought I would be crippled for life. The pain was dreadful, and I suffered night
and day. Sleep was out of the question, and I would toss about from side to side in great agony.
Doctors were consulted and all sorts of ointments were tried, but the leg seemed to get worse.
I was in despair as to being cured, but my husband recommended me to try Zam-Buk. I did so,
knowing it was good, but did not think it would be so healing in this instance. Therefore, you
can imagine how pleased and surprised I was to realise that it did me good from the first appli-
cation. I continued for about two pots, and it was almost incredible how quickly all the inflam-
mation subsided; the matter was drawn out, and, after two weeks’ treatment, my leg was cured.
Another instance of Zam-Buk’s value was when I was one day chopping wood at Cowra,
where we were living. A piece of wood struck me on the ankle, and the leg became poisoned.
Two holes formed in it, and I consulted chemist and doctor, but all sorts of treatments proved
unavailing. It was at my husband’s request I was induced to again fall back on Zam-Buk, and!
did so after two or three months unsuccessful treatment with other remedies. The leg in this
instance also was cured after being laid up for two months prior to using Zam-tSuk, but after
Zam-Buk was used the leg healed and soon became well.
cUti'Buk
FOR INJURIES & SKIN DISEASES.
THE
EOOTHINO HEALER.
GET
ZAM-BUK
REFUSE
SUBSTI-
TUTES.
foot, and with the other pawing the floor,
he recited in shrill monotone: —
“ ‘l’ll never smoke terbaceer,
It is a filthy weed;
I’ll never put it in me mouth,’
Said little Bobby Heed;
‘For there was idle Jerry Jones,
As lazy as a pig,
Who smoked a clay pipe all day long
And thought it made him big—
And. . .thought.. .it.. .made. . .him .. .big.’ ”
The day-dreaming Worthy Secretary heard
the Past Worthy Chief, a little, old saint
with a long shaven top-lip and a monkey
frill, sing the old, old .song which had been
his contribution to the “harmony” for so
long that the memory of man runneth not
to the contrary; sing it with a slyness of
intonation and demeanor at all the sisters
there, big and little, maiden and mature: —
“Green grow the rashes-o!
Green grow the rashes-o!
The happiest days that ere I spent
I spent among the lasses-o!”
. It was only when the Past Worthy Chief
sat down that the love-lorn Worthy Secre-
tary discovered that the brunette had
deserted. The shock of her absence struck
him like a hammer; he remembered her
gazing at the partition that concealed the
accursed Worthy Guard, and he slipped from
behind the secretarial table and followed his
fears.
She was there, talking almost fearfully
to the Worthy Guard, and the Worthy
Guard had a wild look in his eye and some-
thing frothy like soapsuds on both of his
rat’s-tail moustaches.
Love dictated her words, but she dis-
guised them as a message of duty.
“You’ve been drinking,” said the Assistant-
Secretary—“you’ve broke the obligation.”
The Worthy Guard replied, most unworth-
ily and uncertainly, that he “didn’t care
about obligashun,” and that he would beat
somebody specified as the red-headed bloke
to a standstill. He then ceased to be the
Worthy Guard by lurching off the premises
and leaving the Lodge open to the unre-
generate, ignorant of the password. Billy,
shocked at the undignified afflictions of the
female, which half-condoned the ruffianly
conduct of the Worthy Guard, yet with half a
hope that his suit might prosper now that
the old love had become an outlaw, led the
tearful Assistant-Secretary back to the lodge,
whose “harmony” had become poignant. But
love and a cold cannot be hid ; and the know-
ledge that the unworthy Worthy Guard had
caught the Worthy Assistant-Secretary for
keeps gradually filtered into that most hope-
ful of minds. The Worthy Guard was not
reported for his unworthiness: the Worthy
Assistant-Secretary also technically broke
through the obligation by silence on his mis-
deed.
And then the Worthy Assistant-Secretary
intrigued : as men intrigue for crowns, Dre-
mierships, portfolios, mayoralties, J.P.-ships
and the other fellow’s job. so did the Worthy
Assistant become Machiavelli in a late direc-
toire costume and a bustle—so did she in-
trigue to out the unwelcome lover who had
raised her to the pinnacle of officialdom and
to put the Worthy Guard with the rat’s-tail
moustaches in his place. And she succeeded.
There w r as something piquant and undeni-
able about her; when she wanted anything
her eyes looked almost golden, and she put
into action all that softness which is the
strength of woman.
Unable to believe his ears and eyes, Billy
found himself defeated and saw the ex-
Worthy Guard take his place. In comfort
the Worthy Chief and the Past Worthy Chief
stated that Billy was the finest Worthy Sec-
retary on earth, but neglected to explain
why in the circumstances they had voted
against him. And as Consolation Stakes
they presented him with the job of Worthy
Guard, in which position he could stand by
the door opening to the dim, mean street,
separated by an ante-room from love and
light, and having his temperance principles
and himself assailed by the ribald remarks
of wine-bibbers and men of Belial in the
nasty little public-house next door. He
accepted the gloomy appointment because he
was too stunned to refuse it; and his experi-
ences of the night were the dark street and
the racuous “harmony” from within. When he
could bear it no longer and simply must look
at her, he saw that which made him think
those long, long thoughts of youth which
incline to self-pity or suicide: the new
Worthy Secretary, holding the unaccustomed
pen as if it were a weapon of which be was
afraid, sat writing laboriously, and the
Worthy Assistant was closer than ever she
had been to the deposed Billy. She leaned
over the new W.S., her hand over his pre-
tending to point to something in the
book the W.S. was writing in. Their
sighs mingled and their knees touched.
And at that the new Worthy Guard
wished to be something impossible—say,
Samson, with his trick of pulling houses
down on any that displeased him.
Billy bore it for a week, helped out by
the writing of much gloomy verse to be
immediately destroyed, playing the Spartan
and encouraging wild animals to gnaw his
heart-strings. Just before the next meeting
he saw them kissing; and later, during “har-
mony” and while the old P.W.C. was sing-
ing his old chorus of spending his happiest
days among the lasses-o, they almost
embraced there openly and shamelessly and
not observed or reprobated, because if you
but leave whisky out of the sodawater every-
body tolerates the putting of a stronger dose
of woman in.
Angry and despairing he heard the “sister”
of the one song sing it yet again, and by
habit he hummed the chorus to the tune of
“Ring the bell, Watchman”: —
“Break the pledge, never ! No ! No ! No !
Not while the spring from the mountain shall flow,
Sing the loud story, let all tell it still,
Health and pleasure flow in the wake of the rill.”
There was a new shadow by him, and
turning Billy saw a man uncertainly sway-
ing in the doorway.
“Break a pledge never! Nunno! Dam
rot!” said the swaying gentleman.
“Go away,” said Billy, authoritatively.
But the visitor was not impressed.
“N’fear go ’way. Tell y’ why I’m sayin’
damrot, m’ boy?”
The drunken voice was kindly, and the
Worthy Guard fell to it.
“If you like. I’ve got nothing to do.”
“Prerry muserbul, eh? So’m I. Had a
girl once —years ago. Went wrong.”
“Poor chap!” said Billy, now greatly in-
terested.
“Yes, she wenrong. Joined one o’ these
dam’ temperance things—wenrong.”
“Poor chap ! I know.”
“Yes, wenrong. Chucked me over. Mar-
ried a greengrocer. Abslootiy wenrong.”
“Did it take you long to get over it?”
The drunken man became very serious
and lowered his voice as if the publication of
his mystery would mean death.
“Nevgotoverit. Nevwill —’thout beer.
Jus’ few beers, an’ I forget a bit —forrabit.”
“I’ve just had the same thing happen to
me.”
“No fear —eh?”
“Yes. I thought I was right with her,
but she jilted me and got another man
appointed as secretary.”
“Sh’ in there?”
“Yes, but you can’t go in.”
“Lemme look at her—in this crackina-
door.”
“Well, mind you’re not seen.”
“I’m alri’. I can see gran’. Is that the
skirt at the table?”
“Yes, isn’t she fine?”
“Nunno. She’s nothin’. I say, that bloke
with her —is that the bloke ?”'
“Yes.”
“An’ she dropped you f’r ’im?”
“Yes, she did.”
“I know him. That’s Kit Cummins. Nev’-
mind. Comanava drink.”
“Oh no! I never touch it.”
“I goro ’ave few beers an’ I forget her—
forrabit.”
“I never touch beer.”
“Well, ’ave a shandy. Nothin’ ’rong
shandy.”
Billy hesitated and was lost. Making the
Worthy Inner Guard to be also the Worthy
Outer, the unhappy lover and his new friend
passed from righteousness to the depths.
A round and rosy landlady dispensed the
beer and a few quiet old men drank it. The
entrance of Billy’s cheerful drunken friend
interrupted an almost cathedral calm; but
nobody resented it. All seemed to like the
drunken one, who knew everybody, and to
Billy’s great shame he told the story of his
jilting.
“ ’S only one true wonlan in aworl’,” said
Billy’s leader, “and that’s you, Mrs.
Twoates.”
“Gon-with-yer,” replied the rosy land-
lady. “Long or a pint?”
“Long will do. Give boy a shandy.”
But the boy was annoyed at being called
a boy; and he said, “No, a beer.”
And then he was sorry. Ham and eggs
and beer and clothing and all the virtues are
acquired tastes. But it was odd to him to
feel how quickly the brain accepted alcoholic
elevation. He drank a quarter of the beer
and hated it; and then he drank half the
remainder and began to dislike it less as he
began to like its effect the more. So she had
jilted him. had .she? Then we shall see!
“Let’s have another,” he said, and his voice
sounded burry and afar off.
“Thasorlright,” replied his mentor. “Have
a big one; Have a pint.”
“No fear. Half a pint.”
The half-pint was ordered; and, defying
the law of gravitation, went immediately
to the brain. Billy began to be sorry for
Norma Bell. Seeing the through a
golden haze of beer he saw Norma Bell,
married to the new secretary, wearing old
clothes and broken boots and reduced to
despair by the knowledge that she had thrown
away the great love of such a great lover as
Billy Pagan. The vision made him a little
reconciled to facts; he ordered a cigar and
his mentor paid for another drink while re-
lating at length and in detail how his girl
“wenrong—married a greengrocer.”
At the full repetition of these woes Billy
almost wept, but was restored ‘by the sight
of the new Worthy Secretary standing at
the bar-door and crooking a finger, at him.
But the mentor had seen him first.
“Come in an’ ’ave a drink, ole man.”
The new W.S. hesitated and then carefully
lost himself. “Well, jus’ one,” he said; re-
moving the lodge collar from his neck.
“Goo’ boy. You better take off your pig
’arness too, son',” he said to Billy, who
hurriedly and shamefacedly removed the
collar of a Most Unworthy Guard; and then
to the new W.S.: “You got a girl, Bat’s
Mo?”
The new W.S. objected to this ribald de-
scription of his moustache, but only for a
moment, seeing that cheerfully foolish smile
and the beer.
“Not much t’ talk about,” he answered in
shame.
"No good. Girls no good. My girl wen-
rong—married a greengrocer. Beer’s good.”
Rat’s Mo agreed and took a long pull at
the beer. Then lie opened his mouth to
speak, but left it open and spoke not.
They followed his gaze. At the door was
Norma Bell whitefaced and stern. She
beckoned Rat’s Mo; and in a spirit of bravado
the wretched fellow finished the beer before
going to her. Delay was fatal to him. As
he passed to the street the lady slapped his
face on the left side, and then, giving him
no trouble to turn the other cheek, she
smacked him on the left —hard, ringing slaps
that made the old men think of old times.
“Yes,” cried the Worthy Assistant, “and
I’d hit any of you the same. Beasts. Taking
away my Sam !”
“ ’S all right,” said the cheerful drunkard,
going to her —“me dear girl, I”
Whack ! Thump ! Whack ! and the cheer-
ful drunkard fell heavily as the white-faced
lady grabbed the Unworthy Secretary and
propelled him down the street.
Billy, avoiding exteriors until Norma Bell
had left with her criqging property, found
the cheerful one attempting to rise and
helped him to his feet.
“Hits like a horse kickin’,” said the cheer-
ful one of Norma Bell. “You’re a lucky kid
—.she’d knock a husband’s brains out every
dav. Have a drink?”
Billy, almost normal from shock, thanked
and refused, and the cheerful one re-entered
the bar-room. Then sense of humor came
back to help his thankfulness for the escape.
“M’ girl wenrong,” said the cheerful one
in the bai*-room—“married a greengrocer.”
“Break the pledge, never ! No! No! No!”
said Billy to himself, and laughed all the way
home.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


WESTIN CHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock-wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE
CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Welimgrton.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Semite
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
Horlick’s Malted Milk contains
all requisite forms of nourish-
ment. That is what makes
Horlick’s so rich —so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hor-
lick’s, there is a great treat la
store for you.
HORUCK’S
MALTED MILK
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD* STREET,'PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIG.
68} PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W. 0.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
j tlieir friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
SAJI9MM
The NEW
flavour!
Look
for this
packet
At Chemists,
Confectioners,
Tobacconists
and Stores
Fine for the
teeth, appetite
and digestion.
SEALED TIGHT
KEPT RIGHT
Great 1
Mari
tHt
CHEWING GUM
A-19
And
the
other
tWOi
3d
per
9
55
• •? ■<
m
m
mm
m
m
'JtO&&
n -
ES
*:S
&S
■> ■ -.
*•*:
~ ■
• '. s -
K-'
s-csse
rnmmm
i*3@
F.«s
S&S
sks
«s«
• W%{
-•i
j-.i-v?
Has
w«
■
,
-IS
m
■:, r £\
vmzi
mm
■ u
'tm
-:
MXm
SS^VSK:
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue fully
describing our PATENT AIR- CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day s
use. It is' the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly snd comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT,
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
TTcpd cinrp 1596 C U RE S Write for Boole
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
TAN KS
When we speak of a tank we picture a huge
cumbersome box of machinery bristling with
guns. Yet Carter’s Little
Liver Pills, one of the
smallest and most success-
ful pill in the . world,
can be compared to
tanks in action, for
they Surely and
gently touch the
Liver, curing
Bilious Headache,
Constipation, etc.,
just as tanks sur-
TWAOE mark
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
enemy
them.
obstacles and clear trenches of the
Try them to-day, your chemist has
Good for man, v oinan and child.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must
fcear signature
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
%
When You
Handle a Remington
Automatic Pistol
you sense a feeling of real con-
fidence in its ability to hit the
mark unerringly.
Model 51 fits the shooter’s hand,
has superior balance and low thrust
of recoil and is compact and light
in weight—ah ideal pocket arm.
SPECIFICATIONS: Caliber, .380,
length, 6 5/8 in.; thickness, 9/10 in.,
weight, 21 ounces unloaded, finish, auu
ViolrU seven cartridges.
weight, Z 1 ounces umoaueu,
black; magazine holds seven cartridges,
"Sjf’
this caliber.
C-12
MIW
.u*»
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. Bryant, P. O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia


NGROVTT
LEATHER
IILTINd
Has been considerably reduced In price.
This will be a boon to manufacturers who
have lons been attracted by its long service
qualities, and by the fact "that it transmits,
consistently, maximum power at minimum
cost.
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW HIDE
BELTING is made by Australian ox hides
specially tanned, and is the most efficient
belting on the market for ALL power pur-
poses. Let us instal it for you.
Mang'rovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowici, Managing: Director),
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
W. Australia: Cibbs, Bright &Co., Fremantle.
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide.
Victoria and. Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co.,
BaMMßMMßMaMelbourne m
“An Eagle on a Globe” Brand
Special Dannemora Cast Steel
SsjSScUf is sssxa? S” M
Turning CHilled Rolls.
hp° C^vl in SSS e bars * in ,7 s in - and 3in. Immediate delivery can
be given. Stocks are small, so don't delay.
Address requests for further information to Desk “A”
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
379-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
’Phones City 7819 and 9863.
A 9if ON
364 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Bond, Kalgoorlie.
Paul & Gray, Ltd., Newcastle.
Cliff Street, Fremantle.
John Reiil & Nephews, Brisbane.
Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd.. Adelaide.
-LAUNDRIES-
Being- Australian Manufacturers of the
most dependable laundry machinery,
we can quote you direct at lowest
prices. Our machines have established
a wide reputation for Economy in
Operation and 100 per cent. Efficiency
in Service.
STOCKS INCLUDE: Steam Mangles; Power
and Hand Collar and Shirt Machines; llvdro-
Extractors and Supplies; All-metal Washers;
Blanketing; Sheeting; Blue; Washing and
Bagging.
Particulars of any type of Laundry
Machinery sent on application.
James Hardie & Coy. Ltd.
Sydney. Melbourne. Adelaide.
P.O. Box 2536. P.O. Box 2502. P.O. Box 428.
When Overhauling
Romomkar 1 QWAf
Your Tool Equipment
S
for any Additions or
Replacements.
SWANS have been for over 30 years dealing in High-grade Mechanics’ HAND AND BENCH TOOLS, and they know and
TO °‘ She,V£S n °* ° n,y ! ° oklike TOOk ’ b “‘ ™ Took ' To ° k # ACCURATE,
SOCKET WRENCH SETS, 18/6 Set
Will fit nuts of the S.A.E. Stan-
dard in the following sizes: 34in.,
5-16 in. 96 in., 7-16 in., }£in.,
0-1 din., %in.
jgSWjS'flMjTOfgll
SPECIAL FORD REAMERS.
No. 30221 a, Ford Wrist Pin Reamer, 9/-
No. 3314%, Transmission Gear Bushing, 11/-
No. 2540, D.S. housing front Bushing, it/9.
No. 3820, Front and Rear Spring Perch Bushing, 1.1/-
No. 2525, B. Differential Pinion Bushing, 12/-
No. 3521, Steering Gear Pinion Bushing, 10/-
No. 2559, Hub Cam Shaft Bushing, 11/-
No- 3f45, Steering Post Bracket Bushing, also Cam Shaft Front and
Rear Bearing, 14/-
No. 2527, Differential Spider Bushing, 18/9.
No. 2517, Differential Case Bushing, 30/-
ov
1 Set, comprising one each of the above Reamers, £6/17/-
Little,Giant AUTOM'd^iLc'SCßEvv,'Plate.' : ’■
v ' 'J jwsfik.
WHITWORTH or S.A.E. THREAD
STOCKS and Dies.— M in., 5-1 din.,
M in., 7-1 din., M in.. £4/13/6.
Min., 5-16 in., Min., 7-16 in., Min.,
% in., Min*, £7.
FORD SETS, in Leather Roll, 80/-
In Case, 5 sizes, 60/-
METRIC SIZES, 2 to 6 M.M., 73/9.
6 to 12 M.M., 95/-
The House for Motor
Engineers’ Supplies,
304 Pitt Street, Sydney
■
f
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2 y s inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, oanoes, etc.
Develops- a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £32/10/-
Correspondenee invited.
s}Ußi|OjaiM ajempjeii
puesjaSuouiuoji
ck Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
High - Pressure Brass work
to All Australian Water Board Standards
Also Guaranteed, Factory Tested, Medium Lines.
PUMPS.
Alderdice Limited,
Warm am bool, VICTORIA.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.
/ Castlereagh Street/ SYDNEY.
";. ■ \
& CO., LTD.,
."I'-
Perth
s
Nearly everywhere you will find a satisfied
Deleo-Light) user. These users, in expressing
their satisfaction, show that Delco-Light is the
Electric Light and Power Plant for anyone
wanting good, dependable electric service.
SOLE AGENTS:
New South Wales:
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 309 Kent
Street, Sydney.
Victoria:
WARBURTON, FRANKI. LTD., 380
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland:
SMELLIE & CO,, LTD., Brisbane.
There’s
User Near
§
Tke Knowles has solved
every pumping' problem
There s a KNOWLES primp for every pumping job. Go to many of the world’s greatest
docks and industrial undertakings and you find a KNOWLES working steadily on the
hardest service required of a pump. On the farm you can have a KNOWLES built
to the same super standard as its big brothers. Knowles construction means an
ability to work reliably through long stretches, to give service that would knock out
a pump or inferior design and construction. Send for particulars of
BOILER FEED or PRESSURE PUMPS, TANK or LIGHT SERVICE
PUMPS, MINE-SINKING PUMPS, AIR PUMPS, CIRCULATING
PUMPS, etc., in Single or Duplex, Vertical or Horizontal Types.
Parke (Q. Lacy Co. Ltd.,
Engineers and
Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.m.«
