

I>E'W The Spirit of Age and Wisdom
R. G. WATKINS «&£ CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB— .
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted In all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
N S W-MONT de PIETE D * I C9T LIMITED,
74> Castlereagh. Si-., TAt. Sydney.
-ADVANCES -
; 11l
J.llililltill
ON ALL CLASSES
OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION
BneY
/l/jffcJfpjjf ?ls'!7swansion SUlrlb.. 40 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
29 King St.,Nevrcastle. l97*Castiereaqh St., & 159 George st.,West, Sydney.
CAPITAL &200.000 ‘Phone City 932s.
Joseph W.HiJI, General Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the naine
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded qs a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd;”
Improved BIG CHIEF
Oil Engines.
F
Head and
Shoulders
above all
others.
Sizes:
1 % h.p.
to 8 h.p.
Stationary
and
Portable.
Order One TO-DAY.
CASH OR EASY TERMS.
R. L. Scrutton S Co, Ltd.,
1«1 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
9
8
v>pi
<?
£
*
Normwo
to Arsuc
Atour!"
•'X
?v
m
mv*
nw
O
6 BN C
Ar»p> the Best
IHHHBK
JUNIvET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive orcans.
HANSENS
Junket
sg
For INDIGESTION
and dyspepsia
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 180 First-Class Prize Medals.
Uied the
World Over
I
m
'O,
MOTOR
...CARS
Thirty-five years rooting experi-
ence and knowledge are back of
IVI ALTHOID. Unusual resistance
to the sun and rain makes
MALTHOID the cheapest Roof-
ing you can buy. It lasts longer
and costs little to maintain.
&
ill
“Not the same as others.
Paraffine
Companies, Inc.
Manager), Challis
(F. M. Prince,
House, Sydney.
It’s the tough long-fibre felt and
the special saturating and coating
compounds, plus long experience
and modern facilities, that make
MALTHOID superior to all
others. MALTHOID is suitable
for all classes of buildings.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L?
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
GRANVILLE
N.S.W.
LUt/UinU live, AUKIWULIUKAL, mimmu Ai>u uciuchal biwiih-k^.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines.
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths,Sinks, etc.
The Old Gaelic Whisky
Agents ORME, KEIGWIN ©, CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
A
r
*;
HAND AND SLIDE REST. Internal, External.
StocK Sizes from to 60 threads per inch.
Manufactured by Sir W< G, ARMSTRONG , WHITWORTH & CO. LTD.
Sole Australian Representatives s
Gilbert Lodge 8 Co. Ltd.,
115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
506 Ottle Collins Street, Melbourne.
Interstate Stocking Agents—A. SCOTT & CO., 164 Edward Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.) LTD., 894 Hay Street, Perth.
OPAIjOID
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day ,
Prevents Decay*
-
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2124.
Thursday, October 28, 1920.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1920 is now really, and will be posted
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD., 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.—Advt.
The Round Table.
A Quarterly Review of the politics of the British
Commonwealth.
Sept. No.: The World in Conference; The Changing
East; Candidates for the. Presidency; Problems of
Europe-; The Case of Italy ; Austria To-day ; Articles
from United Kingdom and Dominions.
Price 5/- per copy: 20/- per annum.
Messrs. Macmillan & Co., Ltd., Russell St., Melbourne.
MY COMMON-
PLACE BOOK
By J. T. HACKETT.
15/- net (but see note below).
No less than FIFTY-SIX LEADING JOURNALS have
already spoken highly of this charming collection of
interesting quotations with the author’s no less
interesting comments, as in the following brief
extracts ; —
“The book is one to have and to read. .To
quote Mine, de S.6vign§, it is like a basket of
cherries; one begins by picking out the reddest
and ripest, and ends by eating them all.' The
very changes of subject are enticing; we
know not what the next page will be, whether
grave or gay, prose or verse, epigram or epi-
taph. There is no strain on the attention; the
book would be an ideal companion in a ham-
mock or on a punt; equally admirable when
warming oneself before tea in the present
unspeakable weather.”— Saturday Review,
XMr. Hackett’s sense of humor is as alert
as his intellectual sympathy. All moods of
the mind are reflected in his excerpts, and there
are pages of laughter no less than of tears
and dreams..,. We can scarcely imagine a
better bedside book, or one that Tan be con-
sulted with a wider variety of interest.” —
Daily Telegraph.
“Mr. Hackett’s book fascinates me, his
catholic and at the same time scrupulous
taste, his valuable and important annotations
to the extracts Ilis book is an appealing
changeling among modern publications and
singularly refreshing.” — Nation.
“This delightful volume is likely to be of
the greatest use to literary students Not
the least valuable part of the book is the
comment. Mr. Hackett. out of his richly-
stored mind, recalls at every turn the affinity
and application of the ideas of the great
poets, prose stylists and thinkers whom he
qgotes!*;... Men like Mr. Hackett, with their
passionate love of true literature, are likely
to play a great part in .the revival of English
literature.” —Contemporary Review.
The first edition of this book was long ago
sold out in London and a second edition has
been issued; BUT SOME COPIES OF THE
FIRST EDITION CAN STILE BE HAD IN
AUSTRALIA AT 15/- NET. After these are
exhausted copies of the second * edition will
cost 18/6.
Results Prize Essay Competition.
“The Security of the Nation.”
Benjamin Hoare, Esq., having been appointed
adjudicator by the AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRIES
PROTECTION LEAGUE, MELBOURNE, has made
the following Awards: —
Section “A.” Ist Prize, £75, Mr. E. A. A. Dunn,
105 McArthur Street, Ballarat. 2nd Prize, £25,
Messrs. T. D. Chataway, Balmerino Avenue, Toorak ;
R. Ivey, Douris Street, Brunswick; J. A. Atkinson,
60 Sydney Road, Coburg; A. T. Ellis, 27 Chaucer
Street, St. Kilda, having gained the same number of
points the prize has been equally divided between them.
Section “B.” Ist Prize, £l5, Mr. G. S. Foreman,
c/o Standard Dairy Co., Brisbane. 2nd Prize, £5,
Messrs. A. L. Phillips, 118 Chestnut Street, Rich*
mend, and T. E. W. Dingle, Dural Street, Hornsby,
N.S.W., having gained the same number of points
the prize has been equally divided between them.
Australian Industries Protection League,
F. M. Lin ley,, Secretary.
Messrs. METHUEN'S
NEW BOOKS.
/Send your name and address to Messrs. Methuen
and you u'ill receive regularly their Illustrated
Announcement List.
GENERAL LITERATURE.
The Scarlet Letter. By NATHANIEL
HAWTHORNE. With 81 Illustra-
tions hi Color by HUGH THOMSON.
Wide Royal Svo. 31s. Gd. net.
A splendidly illustrated edition by an artist
of exceptional charm of Hawthorne’s famous
romance.
#
Social Evolution. By BENJAMIN
KIDD. Demy Svo. Ss. Gd. net.
This is a new edition of the famous book
with which Mr. Kidd, author of “The Science
of Power,” made his reputation.
A Philosophy of Social Progress. By
E. J. UIiWICK, M.A., Tooke Pro-
fessor of Economic Science, London
School of Economics. Second edition,
revised. Crown Bvo. 7s. Gd. net.
The reader will find in this book an excel-
lent introduction to the problems of Social
Philosophy.
A Brilliant Historical Romance.
The Leopard and the Lily. By
MARJORIE BOWEN. Crown Svo.
The name of Marjorie Bowen is famous
wherever good fiction is read. Her new novel
tells the adventures of an English Captain in
the service of Duke Francois, chiefly in Medi-
eval Brittany,
Methuen 8 Co. Ltd.,
36 Essex Street, London, W.C. 2.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
ProvidentSociety
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire*
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £41,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BeilS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
dsg
From Baby to Father
fit them all with Medea wear
—the light, soft, close-fitting wear that never
causes a moment’s discomfort, that is put on
every wash-day with as much fit-satisfaction
as when it was new.
UNDERWEAR
Stocking ■, Socks & Gloves
For Men, Women and Children,
The Media
Tab
Good Drapers and Stores every-
where can supply yon. See the
Medea Tab.
Manufactured by
W. TYLER SONS & CO.,
King Street, Leicester, England.
ds
gsd
Warm and thoroughly absorb-
ent Medea is manufactured in
Britain from other than all-
wool yarn, to give comfort and
service at popular prices.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no cocaine or other poisonous drag. Suited for old and young. For Coughs,
Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis', Influenza and the Prevention of Consumption.
vJuj
HU
SON
What the Medical World says:—The Lancet:
“Proved to be as effective/ bactericidally as is
creosote.” THIS REPORT FROM THE “LAN-
CET” LABORATORY IS UNDOUBTED EVIDENCE
of the VALUE OF EUMENTHOL JUJUBES as an
ANTISEPTIC.
I/O a Tin.
Sold at Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers; or
Post Free from the Sole Manufacturers—-
Hudson’s Eumenthol Co. Ltd., Sydney,
on receipt of 1/6 in stamps of any Province.
The Red Page
Haris Christian Andersen, 1 805-1875
I suppose in every man’s memory .there is
a boy with a book of fairy-stories by a fire-
side. At first there would be no book, but
some voice rising and falling in i - emembered
cadences. , Later the book would come, and
the crowded silence of the new world where
all things are possible and all good dreams
are true. Here are charcoal-burners and
enchanted tablecloths; mighty tailors and
shoemakers; princes and gyeat rewards for
ordinary boys; elves of all shapes, sizes and
colors; and the gates of imagination. Here
begins the path whose dust sweetens the
long road beside it, the path where shade is,
and dalliance and peace for some of the
early part of the'years, at least.
Looking back into my own memories of
these openers of the fiery gates, Hans Ander-
sen steps dimly into my vision. He would
wear, I remember, a benevolently cunning
smile not benevolent in grown-up wisdom
or superiority, of course; he of all those
benefactors was the nearest to me in years—
and he would share his thoughts with me in
a complete equality of friendship. The
Grimms didn't do this, nor any other collec-
tors of thrice-told tales, however good.
Andersen’s stories were his own, which may
have given me that impression of reality in
the smiling, patient ghost. Perhaps the
ghost’s patience had some dim foundation,
too, in the early years of Hans Andersen.
He was born at Odense, in Eunen, one of
the Danish islands; and his father was a
shoemaker, so his childhood's environment
was happy and consistent with his art. When
his father died Hans worked for a time in
a factory, which was not happy or consistent
with anything—so much and so evidently so
that the widow of Bunkeflod, the Danish
poet, adopted him. In. this temporary secu-
rity he showed some talent for verse-making,
becoming locally known as “the comedy-
writer”; and on the tide of his village
fame he went to Copenhagen to try his luck
at the theatre. They wouldn't give him an
engagement there because he was too thin.. .
which was anything but happy for him;
the disability was too fixed and unalterable
even for argument. Sailing patiently over
this disappointment he started to learn sing-
ing, having some gift and a good voice. But
at the beginning of his studies in the develop-
ment of the gift the good voice failed. So
there he was, high _ and dry and sometimes
hungry. Sopie friends came to his aid at
last with an application for relief to the
King. This was successful, and Hans was
eventually established as a student in an
advanced school (equivalent scholastically to
our universities) at the public expense.
Somewhere about here the smile in front of
the patience became less of an effort, I
expect.
All this happened before Andersen was 23.
Some of his verse had already been published,
bringing good reviews and a narrow fame for
reward, but no money. This matter was
rather sentimental than poetic, even for
Andersen’s literary period : the best example
is “The Dying Child,” and that is not very
good. In the first year at the school he
wrote'the “Walk to Araak,” a literary satire
a little heavy in some places and more than
a little young in others. In 1830 came the
first collection of his “Poems,” and in IS3I
the second, under the title of “Fantasies and
Sketches.” '“Travelling Sketches” followed
a sbor.t tour in Northern Germany, and a
pension from the King followed that. With
this something in his pocket at last he went
wandering in Italy and France, in Germany
again and in Switzerland, writing hard all
the time, and gradually rising to his fireside
place in immorality. “The Improvisatore,”
the Italian book, is a series of vivid scenes
as glowing as Pierre Loti’s work, and daint-
ier as well as stronger. Daintiness is rather
the note of the Andersen of Danish litera-
ture coming steadily to his place in the litera-
ture of the world. There is a sure precision
of thought as well as of style, a neatness'
which is as unusual as it is invaluable in
the high art of making stories for children.
Children are hard critics. Read a slipshod,
gift-book yarn aloud to one, and note how
he jumps on the thin places. Any yarn is
a yarn, of course, and the farther it wan-
ders from the point the more closely it holds
to its spirit of fairy. But the central figures
must be characterised, and their handling of
their adventures must be consistent with,
their sharply-established characters; that is
a decent law which is no more than a fair
thing. Not many collectors and editors of
folk-lore take that trouble, I think. Hence
the passing, gorgeously illustrated gift-book,
the vilely thin and slurred places, and the
hard critic slacking soon into tired indiffer-
ence. The Grimms were good, careful work-
men who got excellent results in both quality
and quantity : but Andersen was a genius.
He was 56 when the “Tales for Children”
appeared, and 58 at the publication of the
everlasting “Ice Maiden.” Into these he
wrote all the fruits of his literary practice,
all the knowledge gained in his sensitively
artistic life. And these stand, sharp and
polished as an essay for admittance to the
Academie, and sweet and fresh as the listen-
ing children’s laughter.
There were “Tales from Jutland,” “The
Sandhills of Jutland” and the famous “Story
of My Life”; there were plays, “The Mul-
atto,” “Raphaella” and “Ahasuerus” ; novels,
“The Two Baronesses,” “0.T.” and “Only
a Fiddler”; there was the exquisite “Pic-
ture Book Without Pictures.” “A Poet’s
Bazaar.” “The Flower of Fortune,” “The
Wild Swans,” and heaps of things which
have all gone into their just, high
place in Danish literature. But all
over the world now there are and
for 40 years past have been children
leaning over books by the fireside—books
with “Hans Andersen” on the title-page. I
can think of no better resting-place for
any book. It is assured of immortal audience
from generation to generation, as safe in the
world’s heart as that smiling, patient ghogt
is in my memory.
HILARY LAFTING.
The Mixed Gauges on Babel Railway
Diversity of languages was, according to
legend, wished on man at Babel for his
sins, or at least his clumsiness; but there is
nothing to show that men should go Babel-
ing of fixed purpose and with malice afore-
thought. If a spoken language shows signs
of dying out it ought to be encouraged to
do so, and even given a shove on the road
to oblivion, for every separate language is
a break in the railway-gauge of human inter-
course. Even in the tiny British .Isles there
still are breaks of gauge where English
(itself not quite uniform, for the dialects
of Northumberland and “Zomerzet” are far
apart), Lowland Scots and the remains of
Gaelic, Welsh and' Irish meet. At meeting-
places the unloading and reloading of thought
from one verbal truck to another is as truly
waste of time and labor as the shifting of
goods at Albury or Wallangarra. And if
a spoken language which w T as thought to be
blessedly and providentially dead and got
rid of is found climbing back into notice it
should be met at the steepest part of the
way and biffed with a .club. When a broken
gauge, has been repaired any attempt to
break it again is a crime.
The text of this sermon will transpire
later.,
Old written languages are valuable in
strict moderation if there remains attached
to them a literature which is suspected of
immortality. They are even worth digging
up with great pains from the tomb if the
inscribed or buried records of great coun-
tries like Egypt and Assyria—countries
which must have had interesting and pos-
sibly useful remarks to make—were em-
bedded in them. The library of Ashur-bani-
pal, for instance, was worth some trouble.
These tongues are the old diggings of
antiquity, and it is worth while to prowl
over them, for possible treasure, just as one
prowls with a telescope over the aged stars.
But even the library of Ashur-bani-pal, won-
derful as it was, didn’t alleviate the house-
famine one whit, or stop a leak in the roof,
or simplify the wage question. Man hasn’t
time to prospect all the mullock-heaps of
the past on the off-chance of similar finds.
He can only remember a certain number .of
things, and it is necessary to forget a lot
of old unimportant things in order to make
room for the new season’s goods.
These observations are leading up to some-
thing.
And when it is a question of preserving
languages which still vegetate with us, and
which never got to the yritten stage until
missionaries, professors and such-like cattle
interfered with them, the idea is dreary and
wasteful to' the last degree. As the owners
didn’t write them they are the key to no
possible literature. They have no past as
the speeches of Egypt and Assyria had. They
have no future, and the languages of Egypt
and Assyria have none either. As they
failed to spread they failed utterly. If their
owners got as far as engraving a fish symbol
on a rock the symbol, whatever it is worth,
would remain though the language quitted.
Even If some petty aboriginal dialect gives
a hint -as to where the petty aboriginal race
hailed from at an earlier day, it doesn’t
matter much where it hailed from. In dig-
ging the well of Truth one is always liable
to find the bones of Smithodon, but even if
there are indications that his people once
lived in the Land of the Brownosauruses, the
importance of the fact is limited when one
knows that there is no record of anything
of the least account having happened in the
Land of the Brownosauruses. And if Smithodon
is found in the flesh, representative of a
tribe of 5000 people, unlettered and quite
unable to give an account of himself, his
separate language of 5000 words is only an
obstacle to trade, which is mostly the selling
of calico and such-like. To preserve his
language as it is merely perpetuates the
obstacle. To bring it up .to date and make it
fit for modern use would involve tly? inven-
tion of 45,000 new words. Then it would
be a different language, and Smithodon
wouldn’t know' it, and nobody else would
know it, and the old speech wouldn’t be pre-
served, after all, but would be snowed under,
It is much easier to teach the brown relic
enough European to go on with.
A move is talked of in Melbourne Univer-
sity, which isn’t a specially portentous hall
of learning. t» investigate, classify and pi’e-
serve the Pacific Island languages. They
are very many—-so many that some of them
only cover a few T square miles. It isn’t
claimed that their owners have any book-
lore, any traditions which disturbed the
world, any creeds which upset or annoyed
the world, any politics which they tried to
impose on other, people, or anything very
special of any sort. Tliey are not in the
Category of the old Mexicans or Peruvians
or even Iroquois, whose previousness or
backwardation is of interest because they
matched their civilisations against the white
man’s, and two of them have an obvious
future as well as a long and obvious past.
They had and have a story to tell. On the
other hand the Pacific seems to be the place
of all others where a preserver and bottler
of languages can find the most work to do
in the least number of square miles for the
smallest results. Man has only 70 years
to live, anyhow. If he drinks he has fewer
years. And he has too many things to learn
if he proposes to keep up with the times to
worry about the etymology of the name of
the big sea-slug in Micronesia. His ship is
heavily loaded with deck cargo now, and if
it stops to pick up and dry and clothe and
resuscitate every drowning vocabulary it
meets, its hands will be full and it will bite
off more than it can chew—which no ship
should attempt.
The ambition of the human race should
be to have only one language in use. and a
phonetic one at that. It may lack the grace
and romance and mysteriousness of an-
tiquity. but that will come. There are lots
of antiquity ahead—for more than behind.
In fact, the deposit has hardly been touched
(Continued on page 28.)


'uae
df
ffl
*
me
&
*
©A
to
r
MM
JBS
£gg
£
MW«
I
KSZ/U
KK
%
7 //
•»
w/7/?
Long-life Garden Seats
The illustration depicts an instance
of Anthony Horderns’ excellent work-
manship and supreme value. The
Garden Seats quoted are made from
dependable, well-seasoned timber, and
fitted to wrought-iron legs. Strongly
stayed for rigidity and durability.
Price 557-
Others priced at 35/9, 41/-, 45/6
Prices are based on a moderate
standard, and are strictly in
accord with the policy of value
at Anthony Horderns’.
7limmmiltlUdP I>>iilJjmimi
iim.ni.il m.imimniu
GC6ol.—The “Club” Easy Chair,
well made from selected timber, and
richly upholstered. Spring edge. In
approved Pegamoid or Real Hide. A
gentleman’s chair.
Price
£ll/17/6
Verandah or Porch Furniture.
Anthony Horderns’ Furniture sets a standard
for quality and workmanship that places it in
a class by itself.
The finest and most up-to-date selection is always
ready for your inspection—delightful in every
detail, durable in use —and, what is more
important, very keenly priced. A comparison
will convince you that Anthony Horderns’
values are supreme.
Sr'i-«V=\
□
m
□cn
□□□□□□□□□
□□□□□□□□no
Malacca Cane and Seagrass Suite.
This three-piece Malacca Cane and Seagrass Suite (as illustrated) is
made on artistic and restful lines. It is light, airy and very durable. A
very attractive addition to the home, porch or verandah.
Price . , £6/2/6
Porch or Verandah Furniture
(as illustrated at top of page).
1— A strong, restful, well-made Verandah Chair, of specially-selected
timber and stout canvas.
Price 80/-
2 All-Malacca Cane Lounge, strongly made and well-finished.
Price 427-
Long Cushifin (in Cretonne) for the Lounge.
Price 23/6
3 All-Malacca Cane Chair, nicely moulded and very comfortable.
Price .... ; '.. 27/-
Satisfaction and Economy are assured if
your selections at Anthony Horderns’.
Order Department will give you good
you make
Our Mail
service.
Reliable Folding Chairs
We illustrate a very useful Folding
Deck Chair, suitable for Lawn, Porch
or Verandah. These Chairs are made
by skilled specialists, thus ensuring-
long service.
Prices:
Folding Deck Chairs, constructed of
good-quality hardwood, with striped
canvas seat, 11/3
With Striped Canvas Seat, arms and
leg rest, 18/9
Service to our Patrons is the
dominating principle at
Anthony Horderns’. Our aim
is to give absolute satisfaction
with every order entrusted
to us.
GCGO5.—The “Raleigh” Easy
Chair is handsomely finished and
strongly made. Will make a welcome
addition to the well-furnished home.
Finished in Pegamoid.
Price £lO/17/6
We have a large Stock of Ladies’
and Gentlemen’s Easy Chairs to
select from.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limi+ed.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.


Which?
Drums or Cases—Quality the Same
Ip i m '' dddHR
vixwwvawd swao
noaaasHii
"/ V
i 8
wm
wjfrk W jt ;
r! :::'ill
§>HE£fl2
*“
1
jf
i Sij\ ® J§|s
f Y^-#g|
■' ..... «. ..
rZ\\
■ v J.. ';
.
The supreme test of quality in any commodity is the public demand for it.
The entire Commonwealth and New Zealand have endorsed Meggitt Limited’s
genuine and pure Linseed Oil as the “Standard of Quality.”
This is another illustration of the ability of the Australian craftsman to produce
a commodity that has no superior in the world’s markets.
Besides manufacturing pure Linseed Oil, Meggitt Limited have popularised the
case package, to the profit of Linseed Oil users.
It is easily handled and costs less.
If drums are preferred we can supply.
The quality Oil does not vary, whether packed in drums or cases.
At Meggitt Limited’s Parramatta Mill modern equipment, carefully selected
materials and efficient workmanship produce a Linseed Oil which “Architecture”
described as “Best in the world.”
CATALOG NO. 2 MAILED FREE.
Agents—Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane; Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666
Bourke St., Melbourne; Messrs. Clarkson, Ltd., Bundle Street, Adelaide; Messrs. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., King
Street Perth- Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston; The National Dairy. Association ot
N.Z., Ltd., Sussex Chambers, Panama Street, Wellington, N.Z.; Messrs. Johnston & Co., Ltd., Featherston Street,
Wellington, N.Z.
e
HEAD OFFICE £6 KING ST SYDNEY (\\Lrks: Parramatta)
ttEGGITT L t .°
PARRAMATTA
One boy on the bag
guarantees quality’
Manufacturers of Linseed Oil, Cake, Meal and Specialised Stock Foods.
GGITfS
UNSEEDMIMF^
(m
MELGITT L 1
°JAe boy on
guarantees quality


g
For Kiddies
ff you have trouble in giving
your little ones an opening medicine
when they need it, try them next
time with Pinkettes. This new laxa-
tive is gentle and pleasant and will
be taken readily by all children.
They correct the stomach ailments
of children; are a good laxative in
feverishness and given when there
are signs of a cold coming on, are a
good thing to disperse it.
1A per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin’
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
BOX 911 Q.P.0., Melbourne.
THE GREATEST
MARVEL OF
THE AGE.
dsg
37/6
5716
dsg
Hand Embroiderer
See Daily Demonstrations at
MARCELLES, Pitt Street, and
W. T. WATERS & CO., LTD.
Free instruction given.
CELEBRATED
7i
H
A
The Rapid Cure for Corn>.
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and youngI—hard 1 —hard or soft, and
that remedy is A’CORN SILK, which
removes the worst corn in a few days, and the
sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure —it kills them. It is a painless cure—
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
K. W. Bradley, Fitzroy Buildings, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., , Aberdeen House,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart.
R. H. Maxwell & Co., 18 Howard Street,
Perth, W. A. [1
GBD
LX
r
93
f.
I
THE PEPPE.CI
PIPE
BACKING the FAVORITE.
When a man s perfectly
satisfied with his pipe, 4 odds
on” it’s a GBD.
You can’t * do your money
in” on a GBD —it’s always
a winner.
London-made from genuine
French briar. A cool, sweet-
smoking pipe without a flaw.
Many popular shapes.
On sale everywhere.
%
J-X
czsznsim
Get a Kit of Reliable Veterinary Instruments
*s2® jars
Fo a r tiO £l2/10/ air (carriage extra) we offer you a kit of Instruments the separate
ior i-iz/ro/ o , ' . „ /6 each item is reliable, scientifically correct
and indispensable to the stockowner. Write us and we will forward all particulars
of this special offer.
DENYE.R BROS.,
281 George Street, SYDNEY.
Veterinary-
Specialists,
FORD
CHASSIS
FORD
TOURING
ALL REBUILT.
FORD
SPECIALS
CHASSIS:
Right Drive - - Good Tyres.
TOURING:
Right Drive, Good Tyres, New Top.
Good Upholstery, First-class Mechanical Condition.
SPECIAL BODIES:
Two- and Four-I’assenger on Underslung Chassis.
Starter, Five Wire Wheels, One-Man Top.
Special Radiator, Four-Speed Transmission.
Stewart Vacuum System, Tilting Steering Wheel.
Crown Fenders, Glass Windshield Wings, Motometer.
Fifth Wheel and Petrol Tank carried on rear —Painting Optional.
Ford Economy of Operation, Comfortable Riding Qualities.
AUSTRALIAN TERRITORY NOW OPEN.
Write or cable
ROUGH-MARTIN COMPANY,
485 California Street, San Francisco, U.S.A.
Cable Address: HOtI'MARTIN. Reference: American National Bank, San Francisco.
rr
f=r
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND
0-
C-A-C
BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AtVISVIUNITION CO- LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SULK OFFICES;
VICTORIA—CoIIins House. Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, Sydney - - - Phone City 2b77
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane Phone 2iXl
0
<
ui
0
>
6
jlij c-A-c-n:
:c r~~~n CA-C-
-tas>
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Wish.
Oh for the power, the wizard’s power, to
fashion
From Spring’s delights an unforgettable
song, , . .
Made not of words and measured not in bars,
But wrought of the miraculous calm ot
stars ;
Of joy plucked from the coral tree s red
prong
In air grown visible like a golden screen ;
Of sweet disquiet and the scented passion
Of pale pittosporums set in wheels of green .
Oh for the power, the magic power, to cap-
ture
This glory of Spring in some immortal lay,
That who heard once would know, in ice-
bound seas,
The green lace hung on budding cedar-trees;
The mad mirth of the kookaburra’s way;
The dreaming distance bluer than blue eyes;
And all the colored and the singing rapture
Splashed between opal seas and sapphire
skies!
N.S.W.
NIANA MURDOCH.
The Mockers.
I laughed at Death: “What gift hast thou
to give
That I should seek thee grim behind the
If aught beyond this little day I live,
What haven hast thou in the shining
stars?”
Death laughed at me: “Thou hast the gift
of life,
And I the gift that maketh life to cease;
Birth and the Dawn the gateways are of
strife —
Mine are the portals of eternal peace.”
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
The World’s Way.
The tide is running out and the wind is
blowing shoreward,
And to and fro the birds across the waters
fly,
And o’er the sparkling sea a ship is gliding
nor’ward,
Her sails a moving cloud of snow
Against the cloudless sky.
llow sweet it were to idle through this golden
morning
Forgetful of all else than lovely light and
sound —
The splendors streaming down, the golden
gleams adorning
The beaches stretching wide and white,
The headlands verdure-crowned!
Though sweet it were to idle, an urgent
voice is shouting:
“Take up your task and do it, for all that
is muse toil,
Though stately stand the pine-trees, gold
lights upon them- falling,
Their hidden roots are all at work
Deep down within the soil.”
There is no thing on earth but feels the bit
and bridle,
The burthen laid upon it, the load that it
must bear;
The very bees are toilers, nor are the
thrushes idle.
And weary their little wings
With winnowing the air.
Stern Need forever points with grim, up-
lifted sabre
The way, the trodden way, to market-place
and mill;
Though life cry out for leisure, its lot is
still to labor,
And when its task is laid aside
To dream of labor still.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Dreams and Reality.
Whenever I see a pictured ship
A-sailing in seas of blue,
And whenever I see a photograph
Of a land that is strange and new —
Then I long to sail o’er the distant sea
Wherever a ship can sail;
I laugh at the thought of the dangers dread,
Whate’er befell I should forge ahead,
Careless alike of the live and the dead,
For naught could my courage quail.
And I long to wander in foreign lands,
In wondrous lands and fair;
I would see fine kings in their splendor great,
I would see wild folk in their native state,
And careless of love as careless of hate
I would wander everywhere.
Naught would I mind what the great world
thought
Of me and my care-free life;
In laughing glee I would pass my days
’Neath the Northern sky or the tropic’s
blaze.
And little I’d reck of blame or praise,
Or the good folks’ petty strife.
Now these are the dreams that I dream by
night,
And what do I do by day?
Why, I mend my clothes and I braid my
hair.
I work in the house with a modest air,
And guard my behavior with ceaseless care
For fear what the neighbors say!
Now tell me, poet, philosopher wise,
Am I the roamer in truth?
Or am I the girl who is careful and neat,
With household duties and pleasures meet?
I gaze on the differing paths at my feet
With the wond’ring eyes of youth.
QUEENSLAND.
C. M. ALAEXANDER.


d±=^
3
“xtcCO
/
£>s
s
fv
%
f
s
m
m
z
m
c-»
A
<T
Ul\|
O'
O
$
o>
ill!
<D
5
%
/
o
D
b&
ir!
Js*
*x&
&
til
pp
fis
/*
S^>
a
o
o>
0
NC
-c/<0
A
A
>«v
o
<F
De Garis ’Presents J. Bull with
Normeys and Sunraysed Fruits.
markets of the world are now \ asking for Sunraysed
Fruits. Orders have arrived from England, France, Norway
~ and Denmark. And if the fruit opens up well—and there
is no better fruit anywhere than that packed by the A.D.F.A.—the
British buyers promise enormous trade. Ten years ago Australia
marketed 9000 tons of dried fruit; to-day the figure is 20,000 tons,
and if anything like the present American price of 1/4 per lb.
maintains, Australia in ten years’ time will produce 100,000 tons
of the finest dried fruits of the world.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 41.—N0. 2124.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1920.
Price 9d.
HE HARDLY RECOGNISED IT.
JOHN BULL: “Let’s see, it was Peace you won for me, wasn’t it, Mr. Lloyd George?”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
I'or £1 16s. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The co'ntents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
6000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail , from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sous,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.I/;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 61 High
Ilolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1/1/1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; The International Bookshop, Has-
tings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver, 8.C.; the
Boston Hat Works and News Co., 109 A Eighth
Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A.• —Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; J. Roland Kay Co., 181/9
Conway Buildings, Chicago. U.S.A.; Liberty News
Co., Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth
Avenue and 21th Street, New York; Schulte News
Agency, Bryant Park, I/2nd Street and 6th Avenue,
New York City; Golden Gate News Agency, 119
Market Street, Chicago; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu.- —Fisher News Agency, 163 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt.- —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singavore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera. 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe
Islands. 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
IGoz., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., ljd.; Sioz. to 10oz..
Sd.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, I/oz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1920.
THE SACRED CHARACTER OF THE
SENATE.
The Hughes Government made one of the
sudden, fizzy, bubbly, soda-watery noises to
which it is addicted when the Senate, strictly
within its rights, rejected the Bill for reduc-
ing the entertainment tax. The law justi-
fied the House absolutely, for though it can’t
impose taxes there is nothing to prevent it
retaining them. And commonsense, not to
mention common decency, justified it, too;
for only a Parliament of overgrown children
would take taxes off play to put them on
work, especially in a country where amuse-
ment is about the cheapest in the world, and
the diseased picture-show teaches its blood-
thirsty shooting lesson to the young in almost
every street, and new show-houses are going
up in all directions, while bricks and labor
can’t be found for urgently-necessary home-
building. While the Prime Minister fizzed
and fumed about doing something big and
silly to teach the Senate its place in the
scheme of things, other people resumed the
old bray about the abolition of that
body as a needless Second Chamber, or alter-
natively about the iniquity of equal State
representation, so that one vote in Tasmania
equals 10 in the chronically ill-used Ma State.
No one shows that any harm has come of
this, but the worry is terrible. Of course
if the Senate, elected on the same abso-
lutely free and democratic suffrage as the
Representatives, is also made a House where
representation goes by population, the two
Chambers will be duplicates, and one of them
should go to save expense and frill. And
it is a fact that there is a much more active
tendencv in the States with big populations
towards the abolition of the Senate, which
actually represents more voters than the
Reps., than to abolish State Upper Houses,
which either stand for property or for
nothing at all. Every State Labor party
believes theoretically in getting rid of its
Uppish Chamber, but none of them does
anything—not even that of Queensland,
which owns the Government, both local
'Houses and the Lieutenant-Governor. It
is a curious situation, and a Royal Com-
mission should be appointed to inquire into
it.
* * * *
There are various reasons why the Senate
in its present form should be the most sacred
thing in the Constitution. The proviso that
each existing State should have the same
representation wasn’t a swindle and fraud
smuggled into the document by unauthorised
persons after the people’s elected Constitution-
makers were finished with it. It was the con-
dition, first and foremost and most essential,
on which at least three States (Westralia,
S. Aus. and Tasmania) came in. Without it
there would have been no Federation till
Judgment Day unless by violence. If the two
Houses stood on the basis of representation
by population it would have been a matter of
the annexation of the rest of Australia by
Sydney and Melbourne if they could agree to
plunder in partnership, and some at least of
the States had enough trouble to get away
from Sydney rule in older days. That they
should deliberately consent to have their
revenue spent in the purely Big City interest,
as those of Riverina and the Northern Rivers
are by Sydney and those of the Western Dis-
trict by Melbourne, is madness unthinkable.
At least half the Senate represents, or has a
chance to represent, the Future —the empty
places and the hope of filling them; the pio-
neering spirit, if there is any left of it. And
three-tourths of the House of Representatives
stands for the Past —the five ridiculously
bloated mainland capitals, and the little con-
gested districts around them, and their slums,
and their selfishness. Moreover, the principle
of equal membership in one Federal House
has been tried and found good by experience,
and experience isn’t a bad thing. That
principle prevails in the South African
Union, the United States, Argentina, Bolivia,
Brazil, Cuba, Ecuador, Mexico, Nicaragua
(what there is of it), Switzerland, Uruguay
and Venezuela, In fact, it is the standing
Federal rule, one rare exception being
Canada, where Senators are nominated for
life, and another, now dead, the Federated
Empire of Germany. In that abortion Prussia
had 17 Upper Houses and the other 25 States
47 among them. A single member, if there
was only one present, could vote for the whole
of his State’s delegation, and as there was
always at least one Prussian present that
State’s 17 votes were always counted —the
whole lot of them. On the other hand 17
States with one member each were often un-
represented through the solitary politician be-
ing absent. In short, it was a Federation in
which Prussia annexed its partners, just as
the people who want to tamper with the
Australian Senate want N. S. Wales
(possibly in alliance with Victoria, but
separately if it can be managed) to annex its
small partners. And Berlin was Prussia to
a certain extent, though not to the over-
whelming extent that Sydney is N. S. Wales
or Melbourne is Victoria.
* * * *
An Upper House is objectionable if it
merely represents property, as in Victoria;
more objectionable if it only represents the
increasing old age of its own members, as
in N. S. Wales; most objectionable when it
represents, as in England, partly the dead
ancestors of its old members, partly the in-
tentions of its raw, new members to become
ancestors, and partly the Established Church
of one among the three partners. But it
is essential in the Federal system, and most
of all in a country so utterly cursed with
the Disproportionate City curse as Austra-
lia is. Without it the policy which aims at
dragging all the population of the two most
populous States into two huge towns might
develop into a policy of diagging all the'
population of the six States into the same
two towns, after which there would pro-
bably be a tng-of-war between them to
decide which would attract away the con-
tents of the other. Of course, the position
which gives six Senators to 200,000 people
in Tasmania and no more to 2,000,000 people
in N. S. Wales is anomalous, but it was fore-
seen and accepted from the first. And it
isn’t more than one-eleventh part as anom-
alous as the corresponding position in the
United States, where New York, with
9,113,614 people at last census, and Nevada,
with 81,875, have the same number of Sena-
tors. There are other anomalies besides in
Uncle Sam’s land, each far worse than Aus-
tralia’s worst, and they are found in every
Commonwealth —little Switzerland can show
10 of them. The United States is too busy
making goods, making ships, making money
and getting the whole world into its debt
to feel itself in the least insulted or ill-used
about Nevada and New York. Argentina,
which has 76,631 inhabitants in Jujuy,
while Buenos Aires, with the same quantity
of Senators, has 2,066,165, is too agitated
over livestock to care. It has only one-third
the Commonwealth’s area, but it has as many
sheep, 2§ times as many cattle, four times
the number of horses, three times as many
pigs, and more live goats, mules and asses
than Australia has ever held either above
ground or buried. Also it produces more
wheat than Australia’s record crop, and
about 20 times as much maize, and it has
sugar for export and many more people em-
ployed in factories. When 8,000,000 people
are* so busy as this they haven’t time to break
their hearts even if outlying Jujuy had only
76 inhabitants to show for its two Senators.
But Australia’s chief output is politics, and
it is always brooding over its franchise and
things of the sort, like an unproductive monk
brooding over his soul in a cave. The Com-
monwealth has already taken more referenda
over proposed patches on its Constitution
than it has built big ships, and its cotton
area has diminished while it was watching
its vote.
* * /* *
Still, if the Senate discrepancy is really
serious there is an honest way out. If N.
S. Wales arranged to cut itself into four
States and Queensland into three, each of
the seven would be more populous than Tas-
mania was when it entered the Union (in
fact, most of them would be more populous
than Tasmania is now, and all would be
larger), so they w-ould doubtless get their
six Senators apiece. Then their population
of 2.700.000 would have 42 Senators instead
of 12, and the worst discrepancy would dis-
appear, and the balance of power would
shift, and all this without any breach of
faith. It isn’t likely that any of the small
States would object to the alteration, seeing
that it wouldn’t mean the creation of one
overwhelming voting influence that would
play the part that Prussia did in the Ger-
man combine and run both Houses. The
matter might even be carried further, and
Sydney and Melbourne he made full-blown
States, this being w T hat Argentina has done
with Buenos Aires (72 square miles) and
Brazil with its Federal city (431 square
miles). If it is more even representation
that is meant and not a sordid grab by one
or two States for supreme power, the way
is obvious enough.
THE NEW JUNKERISM.
No people set a higher value on propaganda
than the Germans. They did their best dur-
ing the war to disaffeet the workers of
Britain, but ran up against a strong spirit
of nationalism not unmixed with the Bri-
ton’s traditional business instinct. The
British felt that if the war was won outright
by the Allies —won so conclusively that the
enemy could have no say in the making of
the peace—their victory would have no sLing,
and indeed might leave everybody on the
winning side better off. Germany was utterly
beaten, and a peace was imposed at Ver-
sailles which satisfied by its severity even
the French. With its navy gone, its army
reduced to the dimensions pf a police force,
and some of the chief sources of its indus-
trial wealth confiscated, on what lines would
the German nation be likely to argue? Its
leaders might, on their past records, be
expected to say—and none the less vehe-
mently by reason of the fact that the remarks
were not for publication—that their coun-
try’s best hope lay in reducing the handicap
of the l’eace by dragging its conquerors
down to as near the same level as possible.
Germany’s secret-service agents, who worked
in great peril during the war, were offered
an open and comparatively safe field for
their activities with the arrival of peace;
and their objective of course would be the
anarchy and national bankruptcy which fol-
low upon revolution.
* * * #
Those who undertook such a task in the
United Kingdom would find many factors
operating in their favor. Post-war conditions
did not pan out as most of the politicians
and newspapers predicted they would while
the fighting was in progress. Field-Marshal
Haig had to stump the country beseeching
people to give jobs to starving ex-soldiers—
the very people, in many instances, who
when danger threatened had been loudest in
their promises to “stand by the boys,” and
who because of the sacrifices made by the
latter had been able to achieve wealth. A
demobilised colonel with a magnificent fight-
ing record was glad to recover his pre-war
position—that of a country policeman. An
ex-general gratefully accepted a village
beadle's job at a couple of sovereigns a week.
Side by side with such examples the public
either saw for themselves or learned from
the “Society” press of fantastic extrava-
gances. A widely-distributed photograph of
a young Jewess wearing ornaments which
had cost £100,000; another of her husband
whose multitudinous polo-ponies were said
to be worth up to £lOOO apiece; a Pekinese
dog valued at £l5O0 —these spectacles might
well provoke dangerous emotions in men
whose families lacked sufficient food. The
obscurantism of the war-censorship was
extended in respect of many matters, not-
ably the conditions existing under Bolshevism
in Russia. Instead of giving the workers
every opportunity to find out the uninspir-
ing truth, the Government fed them with
lies, an effect of which was to make some
of the proletariat believe that capitalism was
terrified lest the happy lot of the Russian
communist should get to the ears of Western
Europe. The Echo de Paris, which is the
soberest of French dailies, and which is in
a position to speak more plainly than the
London papers, said last week of the great
English strike: “It has been undertaken
more with revolutionary intentions than
with a desire for higher wages.” The dis-
aster may not have been engineered by the
people who lost the war, though the odds
are they had a great deal to do with it: but
it is all in their interests. The intentions
of the strikers may- not be to commit national
suicide and to condemn their class to a
helotism more abject than the wretchedest
of them have yet known ; but those results
must follow if revolution arrives.
* * * *
There is a powerful resemblance, as
regards mentality and methods, between the
misguided unionist autocrats who with the
help of their organisations threaten to
destroy the British Empire and the Prus-
sian clique who, backed by their organisa-
tion, ruined the German Empire. The
Junkers let their countrymen in for death
by the sword first and from malnutrition due
to the British blockade afterwards. The
members of the great General Staff of union-
ism began last w-eek by applying the most
effective blockade they could contrive to the
whole of the inhabitants of the United King-
dom in the nominal interests of a section.
Modern unionism treats a blackleg, so far as
is practicable, as militarism treated deserters.
Unionism aims at a material prize; so did
Prussianism. Unionism claims to have been
driven to extreme measures by the grasping
selfishness of others, and to be actuated by
the highest ethical motives in whatever
action it may take; and that is what the
Kaiser claimed when his legions entered Bel-
gium. However terrible the means employed,
however great the sufferings of their inno-
cent victims, Germany was justified by the
end in view r . There is this to be said for
the Prussian theorists: they appeared to
have something better than a level-money
chance of fulfilling their promises when they
embarked on their tremendous crime. The
Junkers of unionism are trying to start an
engine which once under way they will be
helpless either to stop or to direct. All
they can be sure of is that it will carry the
nation to where Germany is, if no lower.
Which of course is wliat every patriotic
Prussian would desire.
A similar clique is working along similar
lines in Australia. It is true that local con-
ditions are unfavorable. There is less dis-
crepancy here in the matter of wealth, and
our plutocrats do not spend with such osten-
tation as those of Europe. We have no
unemployed problem of the sort that is
chronic all over the United Kingdom; no
Middle-European Jew problem such as faces
London, Birmingham and Manchester; no
color problem of the sort that is beginning
to convulse the English seaports; and no
Irish problem. The educational standard is
high, and, above all, there is plenty to eat.
Yet plain or ordinary strikes, irritation strikes,
harassing strikes, go-slow strikes and boycotts
are frequent, and even more frequent are the
threats of them ; and the aim of the organ-
isers is usually, as in England, not
raised wages, but the creation of a state
of mind favorable to revolution. It is the
application to industrialism of the policy
which Prussia pursued in the diplomatic
sphere from Agadir to Serajevo, and it can
only end in the same way. Those who giggle
of the revolution which is “round the
corner” in England, and who express a hope
that the inevitable British upheaval may be
followed by an uprising here, never appear
to look further than the first few joyous
moments when everybody shall be free to
burst into the banks and shops and make
off with the contents. The British might
be able to protect themselves under such con-
ditions from the inevitable foreigners who
would arrive with the nominal object of
restoring order. They have a formidable
regular army as well as a matchless fleet.
Our little land force of ill-equipped office-
men is useless except for ceremonial pur-
poses, and the R.A.N. belongs to another
period. In France when a raiding-party
reached a dugout they did not go inside.
They stood off and threw stick-bombs in.
The procedure put the bravest at the mercy
of the attackers. Revolutionary Australia,
or Australia with Epgland in revolution,
would be in just that position. Any Asiatic
country which objected to the White Aus-
tralia policy could safely drop the naval
stick-bombs which are represented by 16-
inch shells into our coastal cities till the
Government came to reason. Against union-
ism directed to its legitimate ends—the
improvement, that is. of the workers’ stand-
ard of living—no enlightened man has any
charge; but when it appears as an engine
to be used for the overthrow of the State
it steps straight into the category of the
international burglars from whose mad
gamble the world is still suffering.
RAILWAYS OR RAPHAELS?
27. Whether it would be well that the controlling
voice as to the construction of new lines, as to the
route and direction of new lines, and as to the
port or inland town that any new line will connect
with should rest with the Railway Commissioners,
they being experts with a life’s reputation at stake,
and having no interest save in making the railways
pay; whereas politicians have their first interest in
getting votes, and, therefore, aim not at pioneering
but at spending morfty where there are most votes
already, and in any case are not experts and are
quite temporary individuals.
28. Whether railway-building as done at present,
with everything concentrating on one centre, doesn’t
tend to 'depopulate the country districts rather
than settle them, seeing that 533 per 1000 of the
N.S.W'. population was “rural” in 1871 and only
221 per 1000 in 1920.
29. Whether, seeing that every year the list of
hopelessly non-paving lines grows longer and more
awful, it wouldn’t be well to suspend all new rail-
way works until the cause of the dashed old disease
has been traced and a remedy found.
—Proposed additions to the 26 futile and evasive
questions which the N.S.W. Government has sub-
mitted to Judge Edmunds as a Royal Commissioner
on Railways.
In the lengthy instruction issued to Judge
Edmunds there are no less than six matters
about the whitewashing of the men who held
up the railways for no reasonable cause in
1917, and tried to cripple the resources of
the country just when every resource it had
was wanted in the struggle for life and for
democratic rule and the world’s freedom and
the world’s civilisation. The questions even
aim at eliciting a judicial opinion that will
furnish excuse for giving this section pre-
ference over the men who were faithful to
their salt. But there isn’t a hint of any
inquiry as to whether the system isn’t rotten
at the base—the system that is worked
almost exclusively by city politicians (though
some of them sit for country constituencies)
and city landlord and financial and Trades
Hall and even sectarian influences, all affairs
which are as out of place in the pioneering
business as a confirmed draper would be in
a polar expedition. In the general down-
wardness of things there is plenty to inquire
about ouite apart from the 1917 strike.
* * * *
In 1917 there were 2664 miles of N. S.
Wales railway run at a loss of £639,745. In
1918 2800 miles were run at a loss of
£662,235. In 1919 2853 miles were on the
insolvency list and the loss was £673,645. In
1920 (the year closed on June 30) there were
3026 miles of line run at a loss of £725,944.
This meant that 1989 miles paid their way
while 3026 lived on the taxpayer and were
in a condition which, had they belonged to a
private company, would have meant the find-
ing of a remedy or else closure. There were
15 separate lines last year which, so far from
paying working expenses and interest, paid
no interest and failed to earn working ex-
penses. This year there are 16. The trouble
can’t be lightly ascribed to the war. with in-
creased cost of materials and high interest
and wages rates. Those of the derelicts
which were then alive were almost as dead
20 years ago as they are now, and one of the
most disreputable brutes in the collection
was finished and at work losing money 50
years before the war. The obvious fact is
that there is no excuse for charging to loans
and to posterity any railway through a desert
or semi-desert or place where there isn’t the
slightest reason to hope for big population
and big business. There might possibly be
an honest blunder at first and an honest mis-
calculation of the resources of the country.
But when the Hay line in the south-west was
opened in 1882 and the Bourke line in the
north-west was opened in 1885 and they both
began to lose money, which they have done
consistently to this day. anv Government
of real men. as distinguished from robbers


of posterity, would have revised the position.
It would 'have set to work to write down
capital, as any honest bank or other company
does by repaying out of revenue at least as
much of the loan money as yielded no return
and so was pure swindle on posterity, and
it would have been more careful in the future.
Instead of doing anything of that sort, suc-
cessive Governments have so acted that the
debt on many old wild-cat railways, some of
which have been bankrupt for a generation,
is still increasing. That is to say, more loan
money is apparently being spent on these
things, or at least charged to them. There
are 47 lines on the bankrupt list this year
which were there in 1917, and in 31 cases the
amount of capital they are supnosed to re-
present is bigger than it was in 1917. Among
them are nine on which the capital instead
of being increased should be wholly paid off
and written off. because the return is less
than nothing: and several, unless a remedy
can be promptly found, should be torn up
and the material sold.
Railways are nominally a heroic effort to
create settlement. Most of them did
so at first while they were still building, and
the loan money was being spent by the
builders at the pubs along the route, and the
first settlers were rushing out to take up
selections—and sell them when the residence
conditions were fulfilled. But in the end
many railways seemed to diminish settlement
—at any rate, settlement diminished —so that
last census showed 53 N. S. Wales counties
and 50 municipalities in process of depopula-
tion. This doesp’t mean that all railways
cause depopulation; but when a line stops
40 or 50 miles from a first-class port, and
dodges another first-class port by a few miles,
and gives access only to a port over 300 miles
away, the cost of carriage is disastrous, and
disappointment sets in and people leave. So
the Ma State has been opened up so effectu-
ally that these have been some of the results:
In 1871.
About 360 miles of line open. Capital expended,
under £6,000,000. The furthest points from Sydney
that the railway had reached were 110 miles west
and 136 miles south-west. The Northern line wasn’t
commenced from the Sydney end till 15 years later,
though there was an isolated bit built from New-
castle. • There was no South Coast line, and the only
branch line was the one to Richmond. The propor-
tion of the population settled on the land, little
as the railways had opened up, was 533 per 1000,
and in Sydney and suburbs 274 per 1000.
In 1920.
Over 5015 miles of line open. Capital expended
on lines actually open (and there is a lot more
buried in unfinished lines), £79,318,917. The
furthest points from Sydney are, respectively, 460
miles, 449 miles, 403 miles, 464 miles, 465 miles,
464 miles, 508 miles, 518 miles, 457 miles, 517
miles, 494 miles, 481 miles, 392 miles, 409 miles
and 289 miles. That is counting only the more
important termini, for termini are now as thick as
leaves in Vallombrosa—inland termini, that is. The
result of all this opening up is that, as already men-
tioned till it becomes a weariness, there are 221
persons per 1000 in rural districts instead of 533,
and 415 in the metropolis instead of 274. The city
has been settled sure enough. Incidentally, there
were 14,900 fewer people in rural industries in 1919
than in 1911.
It is doubtful whether any Government
honestly believes that building a thousand
railways with only one big port and city to
base them on and work them from leads to
any permanent settlement worth mentioning.
But from various bad causes the country has
very few highly skilled artisans and an in-
credible number of the unskilled and unem-
ployable class; and the easiest way to shunt
the evil day when the trouble must be faced
is to raise loans at hideous cost and set these
unskilled hands building railways. Another
plan would be to set them painting pictures
after the style of Raphael or Rembrandt ;
and in the long run that would really be
cheaper and better, because the pictures could
be burned and would only cost the loss of
capital, whereas many of the new railway
lines that are built nowadays not only, settle
nobody but actually cost money to maintain.
If real industries, coupled with decentralisa-
tion, are impossible, then the Raphael and
Rembrandt idea is presented to Judge
Edmiunds for his very earnest consideration.
DREAM SHIPS ON JERVIS BAY.
I WAS filled with a sound of ribald mirth
like the noise of a bush-fire when I read Dr.
Earle Page’s theory in The Bulletin about
the Canberra capital as a decentralising in-
fluence which will open up the wasted harbor
of Jervis Bay. It is probable that it won’t
bring one vessel to Jervis Bay save a Gov-
ernment craft loaded with officials. And
the politicians who devised the scheme never
meant that it should.
The supposed trade that is going to rush
to Jervis Bay would come mostly from the
South-West, along the Melbourne-Sydney rail-
way and its branches. If any of this goes to
the Bay instead of to Sydney it will be a
matter of distance. It is 392 miles from
Albury to Sydney (Albury is a theoretical
starting point, but any other place down
south would illustrate the case as well).
When the great Canberra business is fixed up
a truck of goods for export may alternatively
go north-easterly to Yass (203 miles from
Albury) ; then south to Canberra (44 miles,
partly State and partly Federal line) ; then
easterly to Queanbeyan (5 miles) ; and then
north-easterly to Jervis Bay, about 140
miles). It seems that by much elaborate cir-
cuitousness Jervis Bay, though 87 miles south
of Sydney, is made almost exactly as distant
from every place on the south-western system
as Sydney itself.
Jervis Bay might attract a scrap of busi-
ness from the hopelessly non-payable branch
line between Nimmitabel and Goulburn; that
is to say, goods for export might deviate from
the State line at Queanbeyan and go by
Federal line to Jervis Bay, which would be
56 miles nearer than Sydney. A few trucks
a year might go that way unless the State
Government devised arrangements and rates
to keep the trade for Sydney.
No trade from the North would come to
Jervis Bay. When goods reached Granville,
13 miles from the city, they wouldn’t start
on an dxtra few hundred miles by circum-
bendibus to go anywhere else, and no trade
from its own direct western country could
be expected unless the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment built a direct line to Goulburn. Has
anyone heard of it doing or proposing such
a thing? ,
Parenthetically, a double railway line from
Goulburn to Jervis Bay, worked honestly for
all it was worth, would give a new sea outlet
for about one-third the trade of the State. It
would easily create at very short notice a
new town-planned city of 200,000 people with
visible means of support. That number of
people taken out of Sydney ought to make an
end of the overcrowding horror which leads
to the existence of back yards measuring
12ft. by Oft. and of the vice, disease and de-
gradation which arise when four families
inhabit one house and big boys and girls are
herded in one bedroom. Owing to the atti-
tude of Garden and co. it might require im-
ported bricklayers, etc., but it could be built.
Parsons, philanthropists, Pharisees, plate-
pushers and reformers of Sydney are invited
to consider this matter, for there is more re-
form and decency and Christianity in it than
in a year of sermons. And politicians,
especially Labor ones, are also interested, for
the scheme not only represents strenuous de-
centralisation but it gives a chance for State
land-ownership on a splendid scale the
ownership of the ground that a big city
stands on —and it would to some extent stop
the profiteering game of the private landlords
of Sydney, who have been more rampant of
late than all other profiteers put together,
though they may not be mentioned in Mr.
McTiernan’s Bill. If the Storey Govern-
ment doesn’t go into the question of the
Goulburn-Jervis Bay railway with enthusi-
asm it will look very like a sham and a
fraud, too.
There was never intended to be any fed-
eral port at the Bay except in name —just
enough port to deceive fools or careless folk
who talk through their hats, and to flatter
them with a show of generous concession, and
beguile the Commonwealth into a heap of
costly railway-building within the N. S. Wales
boundaries. The Commonwealth has ,some
18,000 acres on the Bay. Its original con-
cession ended at high-water mark, so that no
ship except an airship had any well-defined
right to berth there —at least the right was
arguable. It may end at high-water mark
yet for all I know. I haven’t kept in touch
with this particular branch of the swindle of
late. This grudging concession is supposed
to be for a Naval College principally.
Jervis Bay seems to have less hope of be-
coming a real port and a shining example
of decentralisation in these conditions than
eVen Twofold Bay has. It is .to have two
owners, one with too little land to make any
development worth while, and the other with
a consistent objection to development. As
a great and generous outpouring of soul
the Commonwealth has also been granted
a riglit-of-wuy so that it can build 140 miles
of railway to its 18,000 acres. The in-
creased land values created by this great
work will go almost wholly to the State.
The Commonwealth has built a shade less
than five miles of line hereabouts already,
and the loss is the whole of the interest on
cost of construction, with an additional
£BBl in 1919; and that means a loss of
altogether about £2OO per mile per annum.
The Commonwealth has over 150 miles of
line still to build so as to join its 18,000
acres at one end to the N.S.W. system on
the other, by a route which will make it
cheaper for Canberra to deal with Sydney
than with its own alleged outlet, inasmuch
as Sydney has wharves already, while the
construction of such at Jervis Bay, merely
to accommodate Canberra’s groceries, would
be very costly.
Canberra was devised, schemed, boomed
and pushed by the same crowd which was
bitterly opposed to Federation, to Federal
capitals and to Federal doings of all sorts.
It exists, and is still boomed, to prevent Aus-
tralia looking for a metropolis with a future —
Canberra can be only a hamlet on a drought-
stricken hill situated in a sort of railway
pocket. It had its origin in the fraudulent
repudiation of a bargain, and it is worthy
of its origin. It is hard to imagine why men
should suppose there is a prospect of any
form of decentralisation wrapped up in any
scheme of the crowd which refuses every
port except Sydney a direct line into the
interior, which took a railway in a sort of
semi-circle to avoid touching Port Stephens,
which preserves the break in the new line
at Murwillumbah lest there should be access
to Brisbane, which preserves a break in
the Werris Creek line and a gap between
Inverell and Glen Innes lest trade should
find a short cut to a South Queensland port,
and which goes to so much trouble to. rob
Newcastle of its wheat and wool business
and refuses the 2s. 6d. guarantee on N.S.W.
wheat unless it goes into the Sydney pool.
What honest men like Earle Page and
William Guy lliggs are doing in such
rogues’ company passes comprehension.
One way and another the alternative is
always made to appear as lying between
indefinite continuance in Melbourne, which
is bad, and permanent settlement at Can-
berra. which is much worse. The need is
for a party which will damn Melbourne
and Canberra both in this connection, as
representing, one the selfishness of Mel-
bourne politicians, and the other the greed
and crookedness of Sydney politicians. That
party should ask for a fresh deal with an
eye turned to the North, where Australia’s
heritage lies and also its danger.
James Edmond.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Lawson —and Some Remarks About
Cocky.
Like Theodore and co. in Queensland, the
Lawson Government faced the Victorian
electors without. troubling to pass a Redis-
tribution of Seats Act. It relied upon the
old pre-war grouping of constituencies which
had become an outrage upon democratic gov-
ernment. There were 45,523 electors in
Boroondara. 34,555 in Jika Jika, 34,135 in
St. Kilda, 31,344 in Essendon, 28,940 in
Hawthorn, and 25,969 in Brighton, as com-
pared with 6348 in Kara Kara. 6413 in Wal-
halla, 6566 in Eaglehawk, 6604 in Castle-
maine (Lawson’s own constituency), 6612
in Benambra, and 6844 in Ivyneton. There
is this to be said for Lawson, that Boroon-
dara, St. Kilda, Essendon, Hawthorn,
Brighton and Toorak (24,725) were all safe
Nationalist seats, whereas Eaglehawk, Kor-
ong (6844), Benalla (7851), Bendigo East
(8337 ) and Melbourne (8852), all grossly over-
represented districts, were strongholds of Ins
opponents; but, generally speaking, the dis-
tribution favored the Government, and the
Parliament thus elected will not be a true
reflex of public opinion.' But it seems to
be a provision of Nature that Administra-
tions which manipulate electoral boundaries
for their own purposes, even in the negative
Lawson and Theodore fashion, shall suffer
for their political sins. And the financially
reputable Lawson Government has been
punished precisely as the financially dis-
reputable Theodore Government was pun-
ished in Queensland. By grace of the
Country party, it will be able to remain in
office, but it has lost the commanding majority
it had in the last Parliament. Reckoning
McLachlan (Gippsland North).and Smith
(Bendigo West) as Ministerial supporters,
the Nationalists have lost eight seats, five
of which have been gained by Cocky and
three by Labor. Hutchinson, Minister of
Education, was beaten in Borung. Donald
Mackinnon, Assistant Minister of Lands,
who had been member for the district since
October, 1900, was defeated in Prahran.
The Cocky party did fairly well, and would
have done better had it broadened its policy
and invited the co-operation of producers
in othrf fields of industry, after the example
of Westralia and Queensland. In Westralia,
with the support of mining leaseholders and
pastoralists, it has an excellent chance of
winning to office at the general election. In
Queensland it holds 21 of the 34 Opposition
seats, and should anything happen to the
Theodore majority, a Vowles Government
will take office. With its relatively larger
population of farmers and a promising
decentralisation movement to work on. the
Victorian section of the party should have
won more than 12 seats out of 65. The
trouble is that it is suffering from narrow-
ness of vision; its political outlook is
bounded by the crop and the cow-paddock.
It will have to learn that parties don’t live
by milk and wheat alone. Even so. it is
plain that the National party is in process
of dissolution, and that Australian politics
are increasingly developing into a contest
between Cocky and Labor.
♦
The Verdict in Queensland.
Edward Charles Theodore is still consul
in Queensland, but another such “victory”
would be his ruin. (3e went to the country
with a proud majority of 20 votes in a
House of 72 members; he scrambles back
with a beggarly majority of four. His
party was in 1918 the choice of 180,000
voters, as against 156,000 on the other
side; his 180,000 supporters have dwindled
to 164,000, whereas his 156,000 opponents
have swelled to 185,000. In other words,
he has lost 16 votes in Parliament and
45,000 in the country; and he remains Pre-
mier as the representative of minority rule,
which is dead against Labor principles, if
there are any Labor principles left. His
party owes the retention of office without
honor to inflated rolls and a grossly undemo-
cratic distribution of seats. It contrived
somehow to enrol 65,000 more electors than
the Federal electoral officers were able to
discover nine months before; the supposition
is that a considerable proportion of the
65,000 were migratory and multiplied cane-
cutters, navvies and so forth, who invariably
vote Labor. Being on more rolls than one
they were able to transfer their votes from
Labor candidates who didn’t need them to
others who were hard put to it to hold
their seats. There is also a suspicion that
some of these useful nomads carried their
enthusiasm, Dr their forgetfulness, so far as
to mark as many ballot-papers as they
could get hold of, an amiable indis-
cretion which is easy to practise and diffi-
cult to trace. And undoubtedly the crowd
in office profited by, and meant to profit by,
the distribution of seats. It could easily
have carried an equitable Redistribution of
Seats Bill had it wanted to, but it preferred
to derive a dishonest advantage from an
arrangement of boundaries that had grown
shockingly lopsided and obsolete. In the
result it got its dishonest advantage at
the cost of glaring anomalies like the follow-
ing :
Opposition Seats.
Opposi- Ministerial
tion Votes. Votes. Total.
Bulimba .. .. 6310 5037 11,347
Nundah . • •, 5713 3428 9,141
Murrumba .. 6351 1506 7,857
Enoggera •• «• 4016 3646 7,662
Nanango .. , • 5636 1903 7,539
Toombul .. .. 5033 2796 7,829
Toowong .. .. 5122 2038 7,160
Oxley .. 4919 3428 8,347
Merthyr .. .. 3182 2995 6,1/7
Kurilpa .. .. 3290 2577 5,867
Voters in ten Opposition constituencies. . 78,926
Ministerial Seats.
Minis- Opposition
terial Votes. Votes. Total.
Burke .. .. 833 364 1,197
Chillagoe . . .. 1362 392 1,754
Queenton . . . . 1158 654 1,812
Charters Towers . . 1241 1074 2,315
Balonne . . .. 1372 861 2,233
Cook .. .. 1299 867 2,166
Warrego .. .. 1962 995 2,957
Gympie . . . . 1823 1518 3,341
Rosewood . . .. 2062 1935 3,997
Mount Morgan . . 2290 1232 3,522
Voters in ten Ministerial constituencies.. 25,294
The figures explain how a minority of voters
came to elect a majority of representatives.
And even then the Government had a lot of
luck. In Toowoomba and Maranoa its can-
didates just scraped home. In Rosewood,
Charters Towers and South Brisbane
its majorities were so small that the
prospect of holding these seats, in the event
of another election, is dismally remote.
Beginning with an advantage of 20 seats, and
with the electoral rolls and boundaries all
in its favor, the Government so narrowly
escaped a licking that less than a hundred
votes differently cast in Toowoomba, Mara-
noa and Rosewood would have turned the
scale against it. It asked the electors for
an endorsement of its boisterous finance and
light-hearted repudiation of contracts, and
the electors have replied—so far as stuffed
rolls and gerrymandered constituencies per-
mitted their voice to be heard —that per-
fidiousness and the prospect of insolvency
don’t appeal to them at all. In fact, the
lesson of the Queensland election is that the
Australian people are not educated up to the
methods of government practised in greaser
republics. In spite of.all that has been done
of late years to improve their understandings
they have a lingering prejudice in favor of the
c.o.d system, pure rolls, equitable electoral
divisions, and the sanctity of the Govern-
ment seal.
Hughes anti Watt.
In every Army there were C.O.’s, O.C.’s and
N.C.O.’s who had not been educated to con-
sider the feelings of those under them. They
were often good men in many respects, but
they could no more refrain from being offen-
sive in their personal relations with sub-
ordinates than they could help dropping their
aspirates or making strange noises with their
throats at mess. Every Digger who was ever
given a job, and started exultantly to per-
form it, only to find that the donor had
countermanded his (the Digger’s) orders
without notification or explanation, will
sympathise with W. A. Watt on reading
such passages as these fi'om his speech in
the Reps, last week: —
(1) When I reached London I was surprised to find
that the British Government had not been advised
of my mission.
(2) The Prime Minister was approached by a section
of the wool trade to propound a new wool scheme
embracing the past and present clips, while I was
on the water, lie placed a complete scheme before
a private meeting in Sydney on April 27. I ask
members to mark that date. On May 10
I arrived in London. On May 13 the London Times
published the Prime Minister’s wool scheme, which I
then saw for the first time.
(3) I had learned through the Press that the
Prime Minister had developed some proposition con-
nected with my problems, but I had never imagined
that he would communicate those propositions direct
to the British Government and ignore the presence
of the man he had sent home to deal with them.
Yet lie did so. The Minister for Munitions said that
it was impossible for him to do business with me
while my Prime Minister was doing it directly by
cable. 1 was bowed out of his office, and the door
which I had opened was closed behind me.
In the Army the man who was undermined
in this boorish fashion had to grin and bear
it unless he could get a transfer to another
unit. In civil life people dp not put up with
such treatment unless they are in a very
dependent position indeed. Watt isn’t, and
so he resigned. The most interesting question
arising from the row will probably remain
forever unanswered : Did Hughes foresee the
effect his treatment would have on Watt?
Was he loutish by design or merely by
temperament? Probably the former, since
whatever else he may be the Prime Minister
is no mean judge of men.
Liquor, Dove and Locks.
“Mr. F. S. Boyce referred to the personal aspect
of Prohibition. From his practice as a barrister
he bad found that 95 per cent, of the divorce cases
and 98 per cent, of the criminal cases had been
caused by drink.” —S. M. Herai.d.
So far as the effect of liquor on the divorce
business is concerned there are nowhere any
statistics which are worth respect; but any
man of the world knows that incompati-
bility has very little to do with liquor,
and that persistent adultery, which is the
real cause of perhaps two-thirds of all
divorces, whether granted for desertion or
otherwise, is the outcome of an infatuation
that is rather incompatible with the liquor
habit than otherwise. But there are
statistics which are worth while as to the
connection between drunkenness and crime;
and to say that “98 per cent, of criminal
cases are caused by drink” is to ignore
almost every penological truth based upon
them. There are many crimes in the com-
mission of which drink is the severest handi-
cap, and practitioners leave it alone accord-
ingly—notably burglary, breaking and enter-
ing, shoplifting, simple larceny and false pre-
tences. If anything like a large proportion
of the “heads” in these lines were drunkards
the task of the police would be light indeed;
but they are not. The criminal who drinks
belongs chiefly to the vagrant class, and the
N. S. Wales Inebriates Acts (1900 and 1909)
recognise that he is more an invalid, than
a criminal —as, for that matter, do similar
measures in other States. Victoria’s crime
figures have never been far behind those of
N. S. Wales, but it has held an immensely
superior position as regards drunkenness for
many years. Here are Knibbs’s figures show-
ing the respective convictions for drunken-
ness per 10,000 from 1913 to 1917: —
1913. 1914. 1915. 1916. 1917.
N S. Wales . . 179.3 179.3 138.2 123.1 111.8
Victoria . . 55.1 52.2 49.7 42.9 29.2
The splendid improvement in the Victorian
figures has been concurrent with the work of
the Licenses Reduction Board in wiping out
the mean pubs, and menacing all those which
were badly conducted. Crime is diminishing
all over Australia; but its diminution is not
governed by such liquor laws, admirable
though they* may be. Education is one big fac-
tor, and there are others. The societies which
help prisoners on discharge save a large num-
ber yearly from reverting to criminal practices.
And even as far back as 1910 the N. S.
Wales Inspector-General of Police said:
“Criminals have a wholesome dread of the
finger-print system, and I have not the slight-
est doubt that it is one of the principal
causes of the diminution of serious crimes.”
Drunkenness is an abomination ; but to accuse
drink of responsibility for every sort of
offence and failing, though an easy means, no
doubt, of winning a cheer from an audience
of Rechabites, can outside such circles only
bring distrust, if not derision, on temperance
arguments generally.
The Yellow Streak.
The late Gibbon used flowery language, but
he was a shrewd observer. An extract from
the seventh volume of his “Decline and
Fall,” dealing with the Tartar conquest of
Russia: —
The civil discord of the great dukes, or princes,
of Russia betrayed their country to the Tartars, who
spread from Livonia to the Black Sea. Both Moscow
and Kieff, the modern and the ancient capitals, were
reduced to ashes; a temporary ruin, less fatal than
the deep and perhaps indelible mark which a servi-
tude of 200 years has imprinted on the character
of the Russians. From the permanent conquest of


sdg
f O»e j^lusirolia.”
THE PREMIER HOTEL IN THE COMMONWEALTH
THE RENDEZVOUS OF THE ELITE.
ENTERTAIN YOUR FRIENDS
IN THE WINTER GARDEN at
Morning Tea, Afternoon Tea or
Theatre Supper—Strawberries and
Cream, Fruit Salads, Ices. Delect-
able Confections and Cool Drinks to
your fancy.
Say or 'Phone Your Requirements,
and our Experts do the rest.
The Manager.
nr
IN THE
PRIVATE
Dinner or
a la carte.
DINING ROOMS or
ROOMS at Luncheon.
Supper—All meals served
Order early and avoid
delay.
Russia they made a deadly, though transient, inroad
into the heart of Poland.
That was 700 years ago, and the other dav
an astonished world saw David of Poland
knock the stuffing out of the semi-Mongol
Goliath of Russia. When things came to
a crisis, the small Slav, who has preserved
his racial purity down the ages, often under
grievous handicaps, had too much slogging
power for the large Slav with the yellow
streak. Maxim Gorky has confessed that
Russia is more Oriental than European, and
the instability shown by the Muscovites, in
political as well as military matters, since
1914—compare it with the resolution and
stamina of the racially pure French and
Italians in far more desperate circumstances
—is traceable to their Tartar taint. Science
and history attest the wisdom of the White
Australia policy. But unless that policy is
sustained by force White Australia will go
under just as White Russia did.
The “Killing Diseases.”
The words of “Hackeem Pasha,” M.D.:—
The medical committee which investigated the
causes of deatli and invalidity in the Commonwealth
considered that 7189 deaths in 1914 might be
ascribed to syphilis. In this estimate no account
was taken of abortions and still-births, of which
thousands were attributed to the same disease.
Sir William Osle'r gave it as his opinion
that syphilis was third or fourth amongst the
“killing diseases.” It is difficult to reconcile this
with the recent statement of “Another Macquarie
Street Man” that it kills comparatively few.
The families of 34 syphilitic mothers were the sub-
ject of investigation by Mott, who found that from
175 pregnancies there were 104 premature births,
still-births and deaths in early infancy, and 41 of the
children who survived were seriously diseased. I am
fully aware that syphilis has lost some of its
terrors since the inception of the present intensive
treatment. But unfortunately this cannot be regarded
as an unmixed blessing, because the rapidity with
which signs of disease disappear often conveys a
false sense of security, and leads to an intermission
of treatment while the individual may still be in
the infective stage.
As for gonorrhoea, I admit that the mortality is
not great, but some authorities contend that a
woman is never actually cured of this disease. It
may lie latent for many years and then be suddenly
lit up. It is responsible for 50 per cent, of the
sterility of men and women ; and for _a heavy per-
centage of women’s diseases. Dr. Fourness Barring-
ton stated at Brisbane that fully one-third of the
women attending our hospitals as gymecological
patients were suffering from gonococcal infections
or their results.
V.D. is primarily a disease of the city, but its
recent increase in country districts is disquieting.
To me it is appalling to think that here no active
agency exists for the dissemination of propaganda,
an essential part of any scheme which aims at deal-
ing with this .problem. Before my return from
service I had ample opportunity to see Something
of the huge campaign against V.D. which has been
initiated in England, and was greatly impressed with
the methods employed. On one occasion I heard
an address delivered to a large mixed audience in
a London debating society, and the intelligent way
in which both sexes took part in the subsequent
discussion was striking.
-*
North of Capricorn.
From a man who lives and is rearing a
family in the aspersed region:—
Richard Arthur on his defence (B. 23/9/’2O) is
pathetically unconvincing. He objects to the settle-
ment of the North by white people of our own blood,
and advocates immigration from Southern Europe.
I have had a fairly extensive acquaintance with
Southern Europeans, and there are none who fill the
bill. I must except the Spaniard. For him I have
a hearty respect. As an officer in a Spanish emigrant
steamer I have ferried thousands of him (and her)
across the Atlantic to Cuba, and I should like to see
a part of that current diverted this way.
Dr. Arthur claims that there is no permanent
Anglo-Saxon tropical settlement. But there is no
record of any honest attempt of that kind save in
the West Indies. He asserts that there is no malaria
in those islands, and that the climate is compara-
tively mild. This is sheer ignorance. The summer
climate of the West Indies is absolutely unbearable.
I know it. And I had as bad a bout of malaria in
Sagua-la-grande (Cuba) as a man well could have
and live. I think if Richard Arthur will take the
trouble to find out, he will learn that small-pox and
yellow fever, together with V.D., in days when
medical science was not, were wholly responsible for
the failure of the English settlements'in the West
Indies, and the mean whites he refers to nearly all
have “a lick of the tarbrush” somewhere in their
ancestry. That’s the reason they are mean whites.
I’d like Dr. Arthur to visit Galveston, Texas.
This city is 300 miles north of Cancer, and is just a
sandbar, no part being more than five or six feet
about high water. It stews in its own juice and
the stink of its filthy back harbor. I’ve seen the
sun pouring down the hatch raise blisters on a man’s
back through a wool shirt. Forty years ago people
died like flies at Galveston. Then Science got to
work and squirted oil on all the stagnant water
thereabouts. As a result the mosquito disappeared,
and now the town is as healthy as need be : and the
100,000-odd whites permanently settled there are
mostly of Anglo-Saxon stock.
One who signed himself “An Englishman on
Tour,” in an article in the Argus advo-
cating a colored Australia, remarked: —
Australia’s antipathy to color surprises the visitor.
It is unknown in Europe. In England color is as
free to move and is as publicly privileged as non-
color.
Yet within the last 12 months there have
been race riots at Liverpool, Cardiff and
other seaports in which black men have been
killed and wounded. They had committed no
crime but that of associating with white
women. A special body of police is kept in
the East End of London to protect the
Chinese, negroes and Middle-European Jews
who have settled there in the last 10 to 15
years. Coming higher in the scale ho ordi-
nary Englishman of the middle-classes will
touch with a barge-pole a white man or
woman who inter-marries with a colored
person, and the prejudice extends to the off-
spring of such unions. At the Inner and
Middle Temples and the Inns of Court the
Indian and African law-students are people
apart. The English official classes spurn
Indians and Eurasians alike with a vehemence
that astonishes Australians, and English
anti-Semitism as displayed privately and in
the press during the war in connection with
the Jews who shirked service or bolted from
the air-raids provoked frequent comment in
the A.I.F. As a matter of fact, there is only
one quarter in England where the colored
“THE HEATHEN IN HIE BLINDNESS.”
visitor is welcomed. At Court. And even
there he is made to understand that he is only
thus treated because of his position in his
own land, that he must not stay in the white
man’s country too long, and that if he
attempts to have anything to do with the
white man’s women-folk he will decline in
favor.
Parliament never cuts a poorer figure than
when one of its members angrily gives away
the recognised tricks of their trade and the
others profess to be learning something from
the candor of their irate friend. “When
Mr. Hughes returned from the Peace Con-
ference you will remember we stage-managed
a series of welcome demonstrations, from
Fremantle eastward,” said Watt the other
afternoon. Of course the welcomes to
Hughes were stage-managed, like the re-
ceptions of the Prince of Wales, and the fuss
made over Watt himself when he opened a
bazaar, in his capacity of Acting-Premier
during Hughes’s absence. All ceremonial
is stage-managed, and nobody knows it better
than Watt, or understands better how to do
it. Everybody im the House knows it, too, and
is prepared to dress the window for his own
party. Yet one member shouted “Now we
have got the truth,” and other Oppositionists
roared with glee. Really the theatricalism
isn’t half so distasteful as the hypocrisy
which that interjection and that gleesome
roar unveiled.
“Country Ped” : Vic. Premier Lawson
says it is the intention of his Government to
raise the school-leaving age to 15. As very
large numbers of boys under 14 are now
exempt, the raising of the age to 15 will
certainly overcrowd both the schools and
the teachers unless the starting age is put
forward. This, I am satisfied, could be
done without any prejudice to the children’s
education and with great advantage to their
health. In my present school, under a system
of fluid promotion (i.e.. promoting a scholar
as soon as fit), one child of eight who came
six months ago has already passed through
the preparatory course, is in the first grade
and will soon have to be promoted to the
second grade. Another case vouched for is
that of a boy about 14 who had never been
to school in his life until the little bush
school was opened. This boy could hardly
read and write, yet in IS months he had
gained his merit certificate. When a child
starting at eight can go through the first
four grades in four years, why should child-
ren be compelled to sit in a stuffy school-
room five days a week for two years, during
which time they could be out in the open air,
exercising their muscles and letting their
eyes grow strong? I fix on eight as the
starting-age because, after that, children get»
useful at home, and if left longer are liable
to have their faculties dulled by hard work.
Further, eight is the age when the sight
becomes normal.
«.
“Sydney Grad.” : The report that hook-
worm has been discovered at Broome
(W.A.) will give the Rockefeller Founda-
tion .scientists under Ur. Sawyer, who drew
a blank at Broken Hill, something more to
do. In Queensland they have mapped out
the infected districts and distributed litera-
ture concerning the manner in which the
disease is disseminated. This is a duty
which should have been performed by local
medical men ages ago, and the local branch
of the B.M.A. should have seen to it. In-
stead it has been left to an energetic Ameri-
can party to awaken a civic conscience in
the outback Australian settler, especially
with regard to his sanitary arrangements.
The scientists are laying special stress on
the necessity of all children in the infected
areas wearing boots, and, for that matter,
adults also. Sores on the feet are one of
the symptoms of hookworm. By means of
boring the trouble is carried into the venous
circulation, and. after a roundabout journey
through the heart and lungs, reaches its
favorite position in the intestines. The
disease can be spread by using unboiled
drinking water, as well as by going
about barefooted. And the household pig
is strongly suspected of being a carrier.
Dr. O'Connor, who is at Funafuti, at the
head of an expedition from the Royal Lon-
don School of Tropical Medicine, states that
91 per cent, of the natives in the island are
suffering from hookworm, and that he has
found the parasite itself (duodenale) , or its
twin-brother, in the interior of the domestic
porker. If further investigation proves that
the animal and human parasites are identi-
cal. the difficulties of stamping out the
disease will be enormously increased, since
it is highly probable that other domestic
animals will be found to be affected.
■— ♦ — ——
“Whitehall” : When the Oscar Wilde
scandal loomed, quarter of a century ago, the
London police did their best to blanket it.
And, barring the principals and their rela-
tions, no one was more perturbed than the
Inspector-General when Lord Queensberry
persisted in his attacks, and Wilde was mad
enough to begin his libel action. The police
knew that the criminal is imitative, more
especially the sexual criminal, and that any
strange offence which is starred by the news-
papers produces a crop of imitators. For
years after the Wilde ease the West End of
London, and particularly “Jimmy’s” (the
now extinct Piccadilly bar which was well-
advertised during the trial), teemed with
* painted youths, though hundreds had been
driven abroad by one device and another.
Froest, the great detective of the day, told
me that the papers were to blame for this,
and claimed that in practically all criminal
cases, from murder downwards, the interests
of the community and of Justice would best
be served, on the whole, if only the sentences
were made public. At least two Australian
capitals are having this truth brought home
at the present time. Once a week or oftener
the press stars the fact that assaults on
children are taking place. It is significant
that, though arrests are made, the assaults
continue. They will do so for as long as
the attention of degenerates is drawn to tin*
fact that this kind of crime is in the lime-
light. There is a queer superstition abroad
that publicity is a deterrent. As a matter
of fact, publicity only terrifies the normal
citizen who has blundered into custody by
accident. The criminal degenerate likes it.
Touching a matter of prelacy and politics:
fn the art of making a good case appear a rotten
one the R.O. hierarchy in Ireland would be hard to
beat. Belatedly protesting against the exclusion of
Mannix from Ireland it stresses the point that the
tempestuous archbishop is “a leader of the Aus-
tralian democracy”—that is to say, a political
gentleman from a distant Commonwealth. An objec-
tion on purely ecclesiastical grounds agaifist the
barring of an Irish prelate from his native country
would have great weight. But dragging in the
political issue enables it to be pointed out (1) that
politics are not an archbishop’s business, and (2)
that a secular Government can make no difference
between prelatical and non-prelatical politicians. It
also prompts the reflection that Britain is not the
only country that shuts out inconvenient propagan-
dists. The habit began before 1914, and since the
war it has been followed almost universally. America
■ —the archbishop’s “dear America”—has carried it
to lengths undreamed of by the Lloyd George Gov-
ernment. Not only has the U.S.A. banished large
numbers of naturalised Americans because of their
opinions, but the New York State Legislature refuses
to allow anti-war Socialist members who are native-
born Americans to take their seats in Parliament. And
just before the Archbishop of Melbourne landed in
England, France expelled two British Labor leaders,
one a member of the House of Commons, anxious as
it is to conciliate British opinion. It would be im-
possible for the British, or any other Government, to
justify the exclusion of a religious. But a case but-
tressed by precedent might be made out for the
exclusion of a political. Anyhow, the hierarchy’s
clumsy reference to the doctor as “a leader of the
Australian democracy” will do the Mannixites, both
in Britain and Australia, infinitely more damage
than it can inflict on his foes. If it is Australian
democracy that has been wounded in the person of
Mannix, what right have foreign bishops to butt in?
♦
“Bee-line” : In tlie opinion of the Common-
wealth telegraph heads, the horse- and pony-
racing industry, particularly the book-
making section, is by long odds the most
important in Australia. The service furnished
to the racing authorities is perfect. What
would a Sydney business firm say to a reply
from its Melbourne branch in eight minutes?
That was the average time for a reply
between Randwiek and Caulfield racecourses
on Caulfield Cup day. A special staff of
picked operators attend to race work. Ad-
mittedly they are paid for it; but it should
not be possible to reserve operators and lines
in this fashion. Let a committee of manu-
facturers ask for it and see what reply they
will get. The business of supervision is
attended to by only senior officers, and
delays, especially to' bookmakers’ telegrams,
are not tolerated. Meanwhile, shorter-
handed than ever, the business of the country
staggers along anyhow; half the telegrams
are delivered next day. That Australia is
racehorse mad is bad ; that one of our great
Government departments aids the lunacy to
the limit of its power is a national disgrace.


The Patent "Curvilinear” Concentrator
has a capacity of H-ton per hour on fine feed, and up to 1% ton per hour on coarse feed.
Considering that the overall length of the Table is under 12ft. with a width of only 4ft. this performance is rental oapaoity . as wst ness
The small space occupied is a great consideration where Mill area is limited. The Mineral-saving power of the Table k "
this unsolicited letter : ’
Guthrlclge Ltd. Camperdown, Sj^ y ( ; oncentration Plant '‘"ecenUy flrThe*almvc'mini™™ pH sing an
reared test to ascertain the exact recovery obtained, and the results are as follows:-
Tin* Oxide* contents' . . 24351 b. Recovery on coarse table .. JJ.lp-c.
Tin Oxide lost .. .. 73.721 b. Recovery on fine table .. .. 76.0 p.c.
The fine table treated material practically slime, being the overflow from the classifier.
The following are the assays which were made for us by Mr. Basil ( over fl ow ) .. .34 p.c. Tin
Coarse tailings (middlings being returned to battery) .. -l* p « o f reeTin^v"? 8 pass Is spigot owing to its excellent design, and
thi. T iSS» r S e *"* ““
UP in our‘opinion the “Curvilinear” is the most efficient and easily managed table ever produced. YoUrB trUlyj ROBIT,,fSON BKOS '
SOT.F. M4NTTE AnTTTRERS AND PATENTEES:
gds
gsd
g
sdg
GUTHRIDGE LTD.
10-12 George Street, Camperdown (City),
Mining, Electrical and General Engineers.
SYDNEY
POLITICAL
POINTS
Now that the Hughes-YVatt embroglio has
been explained by both parties, it seems to
be just this—there were two lions on the
shore, and either too much lion or insuffi-
cient shore.
One thing still wanting in N.S.W. Attor-
ney-General' McTiernau’a, Anti-Profiteering
Bill is a real definition of the thing it is
anti to. One person may reckon is. a fair
price for an article while another may think
4d. excessive, and the bill doesn’t say which
is rigli t. Th e
think-er can rush
to the Court and
demand redress
simply o n t h e
strength of his
think. whereupon
the Law will go
out ponderously
asking, like Pilate.
“What is truth?”
and finding no
details in the
statute. A Court
consisting partly
of “suitable
persons” may in-
quire into accounts
for years back to
see if profits were
excessive, and the
Law giving n o
definition one suit-
able person may
suspect all profits
of being sinful,
while another suit-
able individual
may be a pawn-
broker by instinct
with a hidden
admiration for
shixty per shent.
Practically the bill
says: “Y o u
mustn’t commit
this offence what-
ever it is (the
WATT.
Court will tell . ~
you what it is after you ve clone it), tor it
you do the penalty will be something which
you will discover when it happens.”
Sydney Telegraph’s linotype was the
first to amend Frank Tudor’s censure
motion: —
Mr. Tudor, leader of the Labor Opposition, gave
notice that to-morrow he would move that the Govern-
ment be censured for its failure to fake provision for
the payment of ss. a bushel cash at railway sidings
for this season’s wheat.
And it was a better one, too, than the
Country party eventually carried.
Indomitable Joe Nicholson and his Sciip-
ture-referenders got another bump at tne
Vic. elections. The State-school system will
therefore go on with its secular programme
for the next three years or till there is a
dissolution. On the other hand, the prospect
of carrying a Totalisator Bill has become de-
cidedly rosier. McPherson and McVVhae
will give it a hand in the Assembly and
Council respectively, and they count.
How the lobbies sum it- up:—
Having lost seats to Labor and the Hayseeds, the
Liberals in the Vic. Assembly will find it necessary
to consolidate. Peacock, who was despised when the
Lawson-Bowser combination was formed in March,
1918, will be sought after to strengthen the team,
which has been weakened by the loss of Hutchinson
and Mackinnon. Tom Livingston, the best whip in
the House, may be induced to come in with Peacock.
During the campaign Lawson described the F.U. as
the essence of Conservatism, and now he will have
to depend upon it for a “discriminating support.”
Cocky, on the other hand, has practically no option
but to help the Liberals. If he pursues too selfish
a policy he will drive the Liberal-Radicals into the
Opposition corner, and he won’t find the kid-gloved
Liberals very obliging.
McSwiney, Lord Mayor of Cork, arrested
on August 12, starved himself to death on
October 25; and that’s no good to the Lloya
George Government. Weeks ago the humor-
less BonaT Law quoted Dutch William: lie
is determined to make himself a martyr, and
I am equally determined to prevent it. ‘ But
he didn’t prevent it. Of three possible
courses the Government took the one most
likely to cause trouble, not only in Ireland,
but outside it as well.
The matter of the vacant seats being
settled, the N. S. Wales Government will
soon be back in the old (dace: that is to
say, it will depend for its existence and the
maintenance of its loan policy on the vote
of Brookfield, the debt-repudiatiomst.
There are other repudiationists. State and
Federal, and they are Laborites to a man,
but Brookfield is the frankest and most pic-
turesque. A Government which is sup-
ported by repudiationists and depends on
them, and lacks the courage to get rid ot
them, has no right to float loans.
The art of getting elected is a gift and a
thing apart. No one can learn it any
more than a sheep can learn to be a goat.
The Race (there is only one) has it in a
superlative degree, else it wouldn t form a
majority in the N. S. Wales Ministry. To
quote an obscure poet:
There came to our shores a poor exile of Erin,
And the dew on his whiskers was clammy and
Ere the vessel that brought him had passed out ol
hearin’
He was Alderman Mike introjoocin a Bill.
A Hobart waterside worker, after vainly
hunting for a cottage for three. months,
bought a couple of tents and took his family
of seven to -camp in the Domain. It is a
breach of the city by-laws, of course, but
the city fathers are ignoring the offence.
The incident has started press, Parliament
and pulpit cackling furiously about the
housing question, and it seems likely that
the Government or the City Council or both
combined will erect a canvas-town suburb
at Derwent Park or in the Showground or
the Elwick Racecourse, as the usual tem-
porary expedient. And Tasmania isn’t much
of a tent-country except in summer. Mean-
time would-be tenants are chasing builders
and agents with good money, but it induces
no rush of new houses. With go-slow the
rule it is better to buy Peace Loan scrip
than spend the money on building terraces.
There is nothing more to be said about it
now. Ex-Senator (Labor Senator, of course)
Grant assured a meeting in Sydney the other
night that Canberra had some capital sites
for racecourses.
Evidence begins to arrive that North
America is in swift reaction against prohibi-
tion, which is unlucky for the advocates of
compulsory drouth in Australia —they have
been citing the backsliding country as the
beatific example. After two years of total
abstinence tempered by sly-grog, British
Columbia (which includes Vancouver) has
pronounced for Government sale of the stuff
that biteth like an alligator. The majority
was prodigious.
The first budget of Treasurer Ritchie, in
South Aus.. figures calmly on a 15-bushel
harvest, with the biggest production the
State has ever known. The exports last year
were over 20 millions sterling, an advance of
nearly 9 millions; wheat and wool made up
three-fourths of it. Ritchie estimates a re-
cord expenditure for the coming year of 71
millions, and a record income which will
leave a trifling surplus, without any present
increase in direct taxation. Tobacco, coal
and sugar beet are all to have a helping-
hand, and Adelaide Uni. gets a much-needed
gift of £20,000.
One of the earliest finds made by Judge
Beeby in his new court was that, on the evi-
dence of the official figure-monger, produc-
tion in N.S.W.’s principal industries has
gone down about 12 per cent, since 1914,
While population has increased 12 per cent.
With more people to support and less to
support them with it is no wonder there is
scarcity and high prices. And out of the
diminished production there are more race-
tickets to pay for and more racehorses to
support, for the attendance of late at race-
meetings has been unparalleled, and the
hard-up have backed their fancies with paper
money quite regardless.
Attorney-General McTiernan, of N. S.
Wales, is so very young and so very self-
righteous that the old hands of the House
are beginning to set traps for him. . Thus,
Bruntnell, M.L.A. for Parramatta, pointedly
regretted the other night that “the Attorney-
General thought it wise to refer to the
daughters of the profiteers as flaunting, their
finery on the racecourses while the children
of the poor were going without clothes and
“THE AUTOCRAT AT THE
BREAKFAST TABLET
starving in the slums.” ‘That is a fact,
interposed the over-zealous youth. 1 have
had personal experience of it! V\ hereupon
Bruntnell: “People who make these contrasts
for the purpose of stimulating class feeling
ought to be consistent. I find in the news-
papers that at a big social function at Gov-
ernment House ‘Mrs. John Storey was
gowned in black satin, with a draped ovei-
dress of jetted tulle and a posy of red roses
at her waist.’ And. while poor little child-
ren were starving in the slums, ‘Mrs G.
McGirr’s gown was of rose and silver bro-
cade ; Mrs. Dooley wore oyster-colored silk ;
Mrs. Sproule chose black faille; Mrs.
Mutch’s gown had a draped black satin pipe
and a corsage of black and silver sequins.
Minister Mutch, opening a road at Bulli
(N.S.W.) which didn’t require opening as
it had been open before, said that he and
his colleagues were at present working about
44 hours per day.” Enemies said of Tozer,
one-time of Queensland, that he was inter-
rupted by constituents all day, did his busi-
ness badly by night, and died of overwork,
having achieved nothing. The world is full
of Tozers.
The cable said that United States finan-
ciers with money to burn wouldn t mind
lending £50,000,000 to Australia. Next
day the Speaker of N. S. Wales Assem-
bly was still only in the act of taking his
seat when a breathless member asked
whether the blessed news was real and when
the Ma State could get the money. But it
isn’t likely that any State will get any
money, though no doubt credit can -be
arranged if Australia will go on an extra
splurge of buying goods from the U.S. at
U.S. prices, to the damage of our own local
industry and the restriction of our support
of our own Old Man in London. And even
then it is as well to remember that the Pil-
grim Fathers recently charged France S
per cent, for a renewal. There is a nigger
in all these woodpiles.
For months the industries of Victoria and
South Aus. have been starved for want of
coal, allegedly due to scarcity of shipping,
delays in loading vessels, unrest among
miners and so forth; yet official figures set
forth that in April, 1920, Newcastle sent
overseas 66,458 tons of coal; in May.
132,510 tons: in June, 172,049 tons; in July,
135.309 tons ; and in August, 195,751 tons.
The country that sells its assets to help
other countries develop their industries while
starving its own for a little present profit
is not only burning the candle at both ends
hut applying a red-hot poker in the middle.
The Executive of the A.L.P. has just
decided that it and not' the City Municipal
Labor Caucus shall select the party’s nom-
inee as Lord Mayor
of Sydney. Accord-
ing to the late gen-
eral secretary, P. C.
Evans, the A.L.P. is
A.W.TJ.-b o s s e d.
while, according to
other authorities, the
Municipal Lab o r
Caucus is distinctly
auti-A.W.IL. and
certainly Bill Lam-
bert, promi n e n t
A.W.TJ. official and
A.L.P. president, is
a much-defeated can-
didate for the Lord
Mayor’s chair. Even
when the job simply
had to go to a Labor
alderman p resent
Baud Mayor Fitz-
gerald beat him in
Caucus. So there
are people who sus-
pect that the new
move is designed to
put the A.W.F. head
in the chair, whether
th e Munic i p a 1
Caucus wants him or
not.
N. S. Wales Labor
politicians are con-
sidering the question
of subsidies to deno-
minational schools.
If the concession is
granted it is to be
hoped that there will
go with it a stipula-
tion that the money
shall be used to pay
decent wages to the
teachers reputed to
be a sweated crowd,
who in some cases
receive nothing save
food, clothes, lodg-
ing and salvation.
In fact, a minimum
wag e. for private-
school teachers is as
badly required a s
anything one knows
of, and if the Labor
party and all other parties refuse to see
it. there are a lot of whited sepulchres
walking about.
Personality still counts in public affairs.
The Victorian attempt to secure no-license
was a failure on, the whole, but the local
influence of Greenwood, M.L.A., was strong
enough to carry it in Boroondara and the
adjoining district of Nunawading. And the
man himself, as member for Boroondara,
received the largest majority of the election.
Though slugged in the selection-ballot and
howled-down on the hustings, Martin Han-
nah rightly predicted that many of his old
Collingwood union supporters would stick
to him on election day. His was a victory
over sinister influences that have retarded
the Victorian Labor movement for years.
The Federal Labor party has more than
once carried the Cabbage Garden, but
there were only 31 Labor candidates in 65
constituencies last week. Encyclopedias
couldn't say more.
Another point for these people who are
killing the profiteer. Before the Fail-
Profits Commission (Vic.) it was explained
that the Singer Co. in New York, which has
an agency in Melbourne, buys machines
from the Singer Manufacturing Co. in Scot-
land. So the New York Co. can truthfully
say that its machines cost it so many dol-
lars, because its manufacturing brother
charged it that amount, and it can claim
its fair profit of 10 or 25 per cent, on that
amount. If the manufacturing co. charged
several times what it should have done, the
Fair Profits Commission can’t find it out.
That kind of profiteering, if it is profiteer-
ing. could be suppressed if we made our
own machines and 1000 other things, for
then the manufacturer’s books would be
here. But with so much money going to
buy foreign gewgaws and to build unpay-
able railways, capital for manufactures is
scarce, and with men like McTiernan laying
fresh schemes to treat the local person as
a robber, the inducement to invest in them
isn’t what it ought to be.
WATT v. HUGHES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Ministers sat in a line on the Treasury bench
and listened intently.”
The thin grey line through both its open ears
Sits listening, listening to the wordy clash
Of jaws that talked away the former years
In sounds the nation paid for with its cash.
What should these say that brings the gaze intent?
What should these say to tickle any hearing?
Yet the grey listeners sit with foreheads bent,
Tense, eager as if doom itself were nearing.
It is not Watt, .it cannot well be Hughes
Who holds them thus as in a tragic spell.
Both explanations they might gaily lose
And losing know that all could yet be well.
Why do they listen in their close array,
Each in his solid, solemn place of greatness ?
Does some fear creep from out an older day,
Some dead hour rise again for all its lateness? ,
Australia great and greatly to be bled
Has vaster dreams than these may understand.
Observe the little people at the head,
And wonder how a nation's feet may stand.
The thin grey line sits with its open ears,
Half-hearing in an undertone the swelling
Of many voices where a great thought rears
Its splendid volume to the point of yelling,
In simple fact, the show of Hughes and Watt
Provokes a mild contemptuous public word;
So thin their turn tlfe public calls it rot,
And offers to such vaudeville “the bird.”
There sits the thin grey line, and feels and knows
The old attraction of such rows diminish;
They listen for the whiff, of wind that blows—
The clean, fresh wind of truth that whispers
“Finish 1”
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


TWO MEN IN' A TUB


The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd
PRODUCERS ok
LEAD —Soft Pig. Refined Assay (Bar and Granulated), Super-refined, Corroding,
Chemical and Antimonial.
SILVER —Refined (Bar and Granulated)
SPELTER —(Sold through Zinc Producers Association Pty. Ltd ).
ZINC DUST—(SoId through Zinc Producers Association I ty. Ltd ).
° £ "zmc OXIDE and
BII .VER.SoBr S ,ITS%KoT S S ,, S n dT.'?C 0 Uo SSE S.
T. H. SEARS. Secretary. '
Smelting Works and Refineries: Port Pirie, South Australia.
Coke Works: Bellambi. New South Wales.
BRANCH OFFICES:
SYDNEY:
“>5 O’CONSELL STREET.
R. N. KIRK. Agent.
LONDON: „
8 & 9 AUSTIN FRIARS. E.C. 2.
A. J. SMITH.
London Manager and Secretary.
ADELAIDE:
62 BROOKMAX BUILDINGS.
C. S. STOKES. Agent.
KOBE, JAPAN:
ORIENTAL HOTEL,
H. B. HARKER.
Representative.
“AUSTRAL”
registered brands
BHAS
“B.H.P. AUSTRALIA.”
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
auuieuXQ auiiT’oo
niuosuißg
loqouoiM
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HIGH-GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification,
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon, Chrome Vanadium, Acid-
resisting or other Alloy Steels of e very description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
(Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London),'
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W.
Branch Works in course of erection at West Guildford, Perth, W.A.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Toohey’s, Ltd., of the Standard Brewery,
Sydney:—
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Jan., ’l2. . £2G,567 7 p.c.= £14,000 £12,807 £71,135
July, ’12.. 24,086 7 „ „ 14,000 10,086 81,221
Jan., ’13.. 27,750 7 „„ 14,000 13,.50 94,971
July, ’13.. 23,487 7 ~ „ 14,000 9,457 104,40 S
Jan., ’14.. 33,120 8 „ „ 16,000 17,120 121.,578
Julv, ’14.. 27,360 8 „ ~ 10,000 11,360 132,938
Jaii., ’15.. 35,692 8 ~ „ 16,000 19,092 152,630
Julv, ’15.. 24,514 8 ~ ~ 16,000 8,514 161,144
Jan., ’16.. 22,521 8 ~ „ 16,000 6,521 167,665
July, ’16.. 21,203 8 „ „ 16,000 5,203 172,868
Jan., ’17.. 17,885 8 „„ 16,000 1,885 174,753
July, ’17.. 19,024 8 ~ „ 16,000 3,024 177,777
Jan., ’lB.. 23,163 8 ~ „ 16,000 7,163 184,940*
July, ’lB.. 23,805 8 ~ ~ 16,000 7,805 192,745
Jan', ’19.. 23,581 8 ~ „ 16,000 7,081 200,326
July, ’19.. 22,393 8 „ „ 16,000 6,393 206,719
Jail., ’20.. 27,500 8 „ „ 16,000 11,500 218,219
Reserves capitalised, 1137,500.. 180,719
July,’2o.. 37,226 9 p.c. = 21,832 15,894 196,113
This brewery has been showing little concern
about the future of the Trade in N. 8. Wales.
During the past 12 months shareholders put
up £47,04!) more capital, and the manage-
ment added £4(5,160 net to the book value of
plant and properties. The latest accounts pro-
vide no comfort for the water-waggoners:
record net profits were made during the past
half-year, and the dividend rate has been
lifted to 9 p.c. Still, considering the ad-
ditional capital and reserves in the business,
Toohey’s is not doing nearly so well as it did
just prior to the war. Net profits for the 12
months to July, 11)14, amounted to £0 >,480,
capital and reserves totalled £432*938; funds
at the latest balance were £681,2(52, and net
profits for the past year were £64,724. So
whereas 14 p.c. was earned on funds six years
ago, last year the return was only 94 p.c.,
though, of course, the new eap.tai was not
at work all the time. On the other hand, the
latest profits, by comparison with immedi-
ately preceding performances, are surpris-
ingly good. The sudden leap in profits sug-
gests indeed that the management has realiy
been doing somewhat better than it has been
admitting. Neither the accounts nor the
directors are talkative, and comparisons of
trading figures going back beyond last year
are of little value, the form of the accounts
having been altered to include excise duty
with gross profits. Higher duties have been
levied since the new tariff came into opera-
tion, and the “balance’’ from brewings, etc.,
has advanced from £148,148. for the .six
months to July, 1919. to £209,893 for the
past half-year; exes, have meantime moved
from £128,811 to £178,370. Gross profits
from brewings are shown after making
provisions for doubtful debts, etc., and u
would be surprising if, during recent years
of threatened trouble, the etceteras did not
cover allowances for Pussyfoot contingencies.
Except in one half during the past 10 years
there has always been a wide margin -between
disclosed profits and the 8 p.c. dividends, so
the management has had every opportunity of
strengthening the internal position. For the
five years to July, 1915. visible reserves were
strengthened by £111,274 ; during the past
quinquennium £72,469 has been tacked on.
But during the latter period £165,832 has been
passed out in divs., compared with £144,000
between 1910-15. The five years -to 1915
were thus £17,000 fatter than the five since.
Further comparisons over the two periods
follow: —
1910. 1915. 1919. 1920.
Liabilities . . 4231,384 4282,447 42109,924 £91,v20
hotels,' etc. .. 315,915 399,240 396,219 442,3 1 9
Stocks .. .. 56,993 90,147.. 160,073 175,815
Book debts . . 110,720 174,043 165,738 158,445
Cash and War
Loan . . • • 1,870 3,062 15,613 22,775
The features of that table are the additions
to fixed assets during the past 10 years and
the heavier strain put on funds to finance
stocks and give Bung credit. Considerable
new plant extensions and property purchases
were undertaken between 1910-15, yet during
that period the surplus of more or less liquid
assets over -liabilities expanded from £138,199
to £185,905. Since then, notwithstanding
the recent additions to fixed assets, the liquid
surplus has moved to £265,715. As an in-
ducement to shareholders to put up new
capital—brewery shares are not popular
nowadays, and some bait was necessaiy
the directors lifted £37,500 of reserves to
make the new shares paid to 3s. for a start,
subscribers being invited to nut up anotm »■
ss. in cash. Apparently 200,000 of these
new 16s. shares, which for the present an
being paid to Bs. only, were offered (one
for every two old 16s. paids), and at July
31 212,573 had been placed, making total
paid capital £485,149.
The Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney) :
Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, selves,
lt/üb.. £6ji.> 10 p.c. =.£2500 £ool3 £22,826
1909.. 5712 10 „ „ 2500 3212 26,008
1910.. 6463 10 „ ~ 2500 3963 30,001
1911 6241 10 ~ ~ 2500 3741 33,*42
1912!! 5833 10 „ „ 3000 2833 36,575
1913 . 6237 10 ~ ~ 5000 1237 3i,812
1914 6488 10 „ ~ 5000 1488 39,300
1915:: 6609 10 ;; ;; 5000 1609 40,909
1916.. 6724 10 „ „ 5000 1724 42,630
1917 6758 10 „ „ 5000 1758 44,391
1918.. 7516 10 ~ „ 5000 2516 46,907
1919.. 8386 10 ~ ~ 5000 3386 50,293
Transferred to capital, £50,000 .. _ p-" 3
1920.. 8437 6 p.c. = 5800 2637 2,930
Paid capital 12 months ago was £50,000 —
200,000 £5 shares paid to ss. It is now
£llO,OOO, the directors having issued toy.uuu
of bonus capital, practically all the visible
reserves being absorbed; and at the same
time Is. per share was called up. On the
enlarged capital 6 p.c. divs. are being paid.
The table, however, does not state the divi-
dend position quite accurately: evidently
the interim div. applied only to the old
capital, the distribution having been at the
usual 10 p.c. rate. A 6 p.c. will now call
for £6600 p.a., and to old holders that is a
sweet 11 p.c. on their investment, including
the latest Is. Earnings have grown so fast
that there is still a wide margin for reserves
The Permanent’s trust business in 1900 had
reached two millions; by 1915 nearly 4 1
millions; and at the latest balance bi-
millions. The increasing popularity in 2s.
S. Wales of the trustee who does not die, or
become imbecile, or suddenly change his
address, is evidenced by this comparison of
the book value of estates held by the two big
cos. with headquarters in Sydney and by the
State Trustee: —
1910. 1920. Increase.
Perpetual .. £8,157,990 £16,492,113 £8,334,123
Permanent . • 3,029,970 6,349,568 3,31-)»n98
Public Trustee.. - 2,095,433 2.095,433
£11,187,960 £24,937,114 £13,749,154
That also bears out what The Bulletin
anticipated: that the operations of the State
office (it got to work about six years ago)
would do the proprietaries no harm, but
rather assist them with propaganda work.
While the Public Trustee has gathered in
estates worth slightly over two millions in
six years, the Perpetual has added over five
millions and the Permanent nearly 2:[
millions. Of course, more difficult con-
ditions, particularly in the matter of intri-
cate taxation problems, have helped to put
new business into the hands of the cos.,
which employ experts to deal with such pro-
blems.
A trustee co. can nowadays earn more
with its funds than it could a few years
back; but owing chiefly to the more difficult
nature of the business due to taxation com-
plications, and in part to the heavier taxa-
tion of the cos. themselves, expenses are
larger, too. This gives the Permanent’s ex-
perience over 10 years:—
Gross Salaries, Fees Taxes and
Earnings. and Bonuses. Office Charges.
1910 .. £11,743 £4,167 £763
1915 .. 14,515 6,102 1501
1916 . . 16,988 7,548 2716
1917 .. 17.504 8.177 1951
1918 . . 19,721 8,884 2687
1919 . . 22,393 9,798 3380
1920 .. 24,948 11,669 4020
In 1915 expenses ate 52.4 p.c. of gross earn-
ings ; for the past year 62.9 p.c. This is
quick growth, but the volume of business
has grown, too, so that net profits have im-
proved by about £lBOO.
It matters little to clients whether the co.’s
funds are called capital or reserves. The
recent capitalisation of accumulated profits
certainly reduced the uncalled liability on
the shares a trifle, but at_ September 30,
besides total funds of £112,875. there was still
£590,055 callable should anything serious
happen to trusts through fraudulency or care-
less management. The manner in which the
co.’s funds are invested is shown hereunder:
1905. 1915. 1919. 1920.
Capital. . • • £25,000 £50,000 £50.000 £109,945
Liabilities . . 23 16,679 13,585 933
Assets 1 —
Treasury deposit 20,000 20,000 20,000 20,000
Mortgages, etc. 20,289 21,558 28,437 26,804
Premises . . Nil 67,902 66,750 65,971
Sundry debtors 98 98 1,640 858
Cash.. .. 959 30 30 3,996
Until about eight years ago the largest in-
terests were mortgages; then the directors
put £68,000 into new premises, and the pre-
sent book value of that freehold represents
56 p.c. of total assets.
Melbourne Hydraulic Power Co.,
I,td -—This co. is now in its 34th year, but on
December 33, 1924, its rights expire and the
enterprise passes to municipal control. bo
in addition to paying divs. the management
has had to provide for a return of capital
when the co.’s concessions are lost. Capital
was originally £105,000 in £1 shares. A
regular 8 p.c has been paid over many years,
and in 3907. 1914 and last year ss. per
share was handed back to shareholders and
a special Is. 3d. bonus was distributed in
1915. Regarding this bonus as a return of
capital there is still 3s. 9d. per share to _be
made good, or. apart from the bonus, the os.
per share (£26,250) still shown by the
balance-sheet. The directors give the past
year’s net profits as £4323, after providing
for depreciation, but probably that allow-
ance also includes provision for the sinking
fund which is to assure the return of capi-
tal. A better view of the year’s proceedings
is furnished by this comparison of the liquid
position at the last two balancing dates: —
1919. 1920.
Assets apart from plant, mains, etc. . £25,859 £13,050
Liabilities (tne. investment deprecia-
tion reserve and dividends) .. 5,493 15,543
Surplus assets . . • • £20,366
Excess liabilities . . . . £2,493
The sinking fund investments did not pro-
vide the whole of the recent return of capi-
tal. the management having gone to the bank
for over £9OOO, hence the increase of liabili-
ties shown in the comparison above. After
allowing for the return of £26,250 of capital
to shareholders during the year, the figures
show the co. to have improved its position
by £3391 after providing ±3675 for the 8 p.c.
dividend. If none of the liquid assets in
hand at June 30 were required for putting-
plant, etc., into condition acceptable to the
municipal authorities when the transfer is
effected, then during the past year the co.’s
net earnings were about £7OOO instead of the
£4323 shown by th» accounts. After the
payment of the latest div. the co. owed £2493
over and above what the balance-sheet
showed as the co.'s own belongings. So,
with the £19,688 of capital to be made good,
the management had, unless there is some-
thing hidden, 44 years in which to recover
£22.181 for shareholders and creditors; and
if S p.c. divs. are to continue, a further £9450
will be required for those distributions.
Altogether, slightly over £7OOO per annum
will be wanted, after providing for all neces-
sary replacements, renewals, etc. Last
year’s experience suggests that, if all goes
well, the liquidator should be able to find
a full 20s. in the £ at the close of 1924.
The Federal Palace Hotel, Ltd. (Mel-
bourne) .
Written To Re- Re-
Julv, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1907.. £2458 10$ p.c.= £ 1465 £993 £11,139
1908.. 2411 lOj „ „ 1465 £8506 3,579
1909.. 3040 10$ „ „ 1465 1000 5(5 4,154
1910.. 3963 144 „„ 1953 1000 1010 5,164
1911.. 4918 144 „ „ 1953 2966 8,129
1912.. 6203 211 „ „ 2930 3273 11.402
1913 5124 211 „ „ 2930 2194 13,596
1914 4927 21f 2930 1997 15,593
1915:: 2126 Nil - 2126 17,719
1916.. 3871 21$ p.c.= 2930 941 18,660
1917.. 2858 144 „ „ 1953 905 19,565
1918.. 3809 21$ „ „ 2930 B<9 20,444
1919.. 3952 211 „ „ 2930 1022 21,466
1920.. 9100 434 „ „ 5860 3240 24,706
This 25-year-old co. has had an exciting
time: net profits for the past year were
almost half as large again as those for any
other term in the table. The improvement
has been accounted for, the directors say,
by a rush or business and an increased tariit.
Revenue leaped from £29,451 for 1919 to
£49,263 for the past year; meantime exes,
(including allowances for depreciation of
furniture, etc.) have gone from £20,499 to
£40164. The growth of receipts and out-
goings was due partly to extensions under-
taken during the year, £B5OO having been
spent on alterations and improvements. As
a result of favorable trading conditions and
the activities of new profit-earning sections
shareholders have had their dividend doubled.
But the 43i p.c. 1S n °t to be taken too
seriously. The Federal Palace Hotel was
one of the Melbourne land-boom floats, and
in the bad old days capital was £122,152, in
shares paid to 19s. In addition, there was
£60,000 of borrowed money in the business.
When the directors took tally of the assets
after the smash £109,989 of capital was
written off as lost, 17s. per share thus dis-
appearing. Later lid. per share was called
up. and paid capital is now only £13,493.
So to the old crowd there is nothing at all
fat about the 43i p.c. div. But those who
got in about 10 years ago, when the 2s. ljd.
paid shares could be picked up at under
45., have done remarkably well, the latest
div giving them over 23 p.c. After the
reconstruction the co. continued to work on
a considerable amount of borrowed money,
but the load has been gradually eased. Last
year’s extensions and improvements, how-
ever called for a little more outside assist-
ance, and the excess of liabilities over more
or less liquid assets is consequently a few
thousands heavier than during recent years.
This shows the present position and also
the improvement effected over the past 17
yeais. 1903 . 1913 1919 . i 920.
Liabilities. . ■ • £59,932 £39.904 £35,607 £42.239
Liquid assets .. 2,i02 3,955 (,-49 9,647
Excess liabilities. . £57,180 £35,949 £28,358 £32,592
Each year the management sets aside portion
of the profits to repay the mortgage, but as
the debt is reduced, instead of writing down
assets, a mortgage redemption reserve is
built up, and, if assets are worth all they
are shown at in the books, that reserve can
be regarded as actual stored-up profit. At
Julv 31 freeholds, plant and furniture had a
book value of £74,698, and after the dis-
tribution of the latest divs. there were net
assets with a book value of practically 6s.
per 2s. lid. share.
* * * *
Paris House, Ltd. (Sydney)
Writ-
ten Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Sept., 1914. . £315*2 Nil £607 £2358
Mar. 1915.. 1213 Nil 1194 2877
Sept., 1915.. 1072 5 p.c. = £175 566 3208
Written off Debenture Reserve 450 2758
Mar., 1916.. 154 10 p.c. = 350 300 2262
Written off Debenture Reserve 300 ( llg9
Written off other Reserves . . 773 )
Sept., 1916.. 196 5 p.c. = 175 1210
Mar., 1917.. 454 IQ „ „ 350 1314
Written off Debenture Reserve 500 814
Written off other Reserves .. 500 314
Sept., 1917.. 373 10 p.c. = 350 337
Mar., 1918.. 859 10 „ „ 350
Sept., 1918.. 771 15 „ „ 525 1092
Mar., 1919.. 907 15 ~ „ 525 141 4
Sept., 1919.. 1180 25 „ „ 875 1779
Mar., 1920.. 1224 20 „ „ 700 2303
Assets written up £3500 ; £3428 transferred
to capital and balance apparently distributed.
5ept.,1920.. 1266 20 p.c. = 1045 2524
From the published balance-sheets it is
difficult to reconcile past and recent happen-
ings in this co. It was floated about 10
years ago, £10,500 (in shares) being paid
for the lease, equipment and goodwill of a
well-known Sydney restaurant. Early in
its career the lease and license of the Bal-
four Hotel were also acquired. But the
management found that when the late (las-
ton Lievain withdrew from the kitchen all
hopes of the anticipated 30 p.c. divs. on the
paid capital of £14,000 had evaporated. The
affairs of the co. soon became so tangled that
divs. dried up altogether. Early in 1914
the directors took stock of the position and
decided that half the paid capital had been
lost; so 10s. per £1 was written off. The
table above gives results since the recon-
struction. But the co. is no longer a
restauraht proprietor; it got out of the
difficult business in 1914 and passed the eat-
ery over to Gaston Lievain again on lease.
Gradually disclosed net earnings improved,
until during the past couple of years old
shareholders have had a return equal to
10 p.c. on their original capital, while re-
serves have been steadily strengthened.
Now. however, the directors declare that
assets are worth considerably more than the
books have shown recently; and that after
only six years half of the amount written
off can be replaced. How the directors have
accomplished the feat is not disclosed ; they
merely state that “certain assets were re-
valued,” but give no hint as to the basis
on which the valuation was made or as to
who was the appraiser. Possibly the writ-
ing-down which has been effected since the
reconstruction —the table shows what hap-
pened to the debenture sinking fund when old
liabilities were being worked off—has been
too severe; in other words, more profit was
being accumulated than the accounts took
credit for. However, the directors declare
that leaseholds, plant and furniture are now
worth £6647, compared with £3784 shown
by the accounts six months ago and £11.807
after the reconstruction. That the co. has
made a good recovery is shown by this com-
parison of the liquid position:
1914. 1919.
Liquid assets . - • • £6308 £11,847
Liabilities •• •• 8297 3,i96
Excess liabilities . . £1989
Surplus assets . • £8,051
The £3500 by which assets were recently
written up was distributed as a bonus, £34_S
of it in 6857 new 10s. shares. Paid capital
is now £10.428. in 20.857 10s. shares, and
after payment of the latest divs. there was
a surplus of 6s. Bd. per share in stocks in-
vestments and cash over and above liabili-
ties. In addition, the accounts now give
leaseholds, etc., a value of 6s. 4d. per share
—together just over 13s. of net assets to
represent each 10s. share.
From an ex-banker ;
Customs returns show that Victoria imported
nearly four million pounds’ worth of goods more in
September, 1920, than in September, 1919. No
wonder the importing boom has burst for the time
being; and the figures fully account for the silly
cablegram sent by the London Chamber of Com-
merce to the Australian Chambers of Commerce ask-
ing them to try to secure the exportation of good
Australian gold to London. Very little notice has
been taken of that cable, and less of the cable that gold
is worth £6 os. lOd. an'ounce in London. Meanwhile
the Gold Producers’ Association is making high
premiums on exported gold, while the two Billys
butt one another about nothing. If by keeping our
own gold in our own vaults we can ease down the
coming financial crisis, ought we not, as a duty to
ourselves, put an embargo on the export of gold?
* * * *
There is a likelihood of a State coal-mine
being established at West Bargo, on the
N. S. Wales Southern railway. Some years
ago Austin Chapman’s Coal, Ltd., took up
leases near Appin, and a bore to the west
proved the Bulb seam to be Bft. 3in. thick
and of good quality. But the co. got no
further and the leases fell in. This week


Do you use soldering irons in your business? No
doubt you would appreciate the advantages of those
which stay hot and are free from the soot of a
heating flame. The Q.E. Electric Soldering Iron
possesses these and many other advantages over the
old style. It costs but little for current, and re-
quires very little attention to be kept clean and
well tinned. An exclusive feature of this iron is
the spiral coil wire handle, which keeps remarkably
cool, and which may be grasped close to the tip
without discomfort. Australian General Electric
Company, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn
Street, Sydney; and corner Queen and Little Collins
Streets, Melbourne. —Advt. t [2
Experience is an oculist that sometimes cures blind
faith. Experience with “Adamax” Asphaltum Roof-
ing gives builders everywhere absolute faith in its
lasting qualities, and superiority in every rooting
essential. “Adamax” is easily handled —costs less
than galvanised iron, less for freight and less to
lay. In addition “Adamax” will not pinhole or
rust, whilst acids do not affect it. Write for free
booklet, get full information. William Adams and
Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Berth and
Adelaide. — Advt. [I
Pioneer Wood Pipe.— Copy of letter received
from Elmore Waterworks Trust, Elmore, 28th Feb.,
1919: “Dear Sir —Yours of the 19th inst. in regard
to pipes supplied to this Trust. The pipes have
been and are still in every way satisfactory, and are
quite suitable for our requirements. The cost of
maintenance during the six years of sendee has been
nil. If we were putting in any further pipe lines
your firm would certainly be favored with our orders.
Yours truly (Sgd.), S. Southam, Sec.” Send for our
illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Company Ltd. (II.0.), Burns Bay Road, Longueville,
N.S.W. Contractors to all State Governments. —
Advt.
* * * »
Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office ; tel. Cen, 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney ;' tel. City 2723.—Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide. — Advt.
Mix your concrete with Leplastrier’s Patent “Multi-
mix” Concrete Mixer. Sizes from li to 54 cubic
ft. per batch. Drain your roads with concrete pipes
made with “Leplastrier’s” “Quickset” Pipe Moulds.
All Australian-made by Arthur Leplastrier & Co-
Read Office, Sydney.— Advt.
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. (London): Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work ; contractors advised ; railway work.
90 Queen-street, Melbourne.— Advt.
T. IT. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street. Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.”— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B. Selbv k Co-
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bonrke Street, Melb.— Advt
61 YEARS* REPUTATION.
PIONEER Leather Belting
guaranteed by J. G. LUDOWICI (SL SON LTD.
TANNERS & LEATHER BELT MAKERS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED iT 1858.
Super- Excellent QUALITY I
Preserve your footwear and keep the uppers soft and pliable by using
BOSTOCK’S SHOE DRESSINGS.
; |
TnE SIGN Or
A GOOD SHINE
Thev are super-excellent in quality, and are produced by leather
experts to REPLENISH THE NATURAL OILS of the
leather’ in addition to giving a brilliant and lasting polish.
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
IN BOTTLES AND TUBES. Obtainable Everywhere.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES, LTD., SYDNEY.
AINSLiE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual t ire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in
Australia.
Losses from Fire, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation, Motor
Car, Plate-Glass Breakage. Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops,
Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY. J.P., Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
the Mines Department commences investi-
gations into prospects of a pit adjacent to
the railway, and if, as is considered pro-
bable, boring proves the seam there to be
a.bout 4ft. thick, the State is almost certain
to decide to produce. An extensive area is
available.
Jumbunna coal (Vic.) has been at the
mercy of the Coal Board and the War Pre-
cautions Act, and its plight for the past six
months has been pathetic. Sales could not
be made to all and sundry at a fixed 375. 6d.
a ton, but only to those approved by the
Coal Board. Even if the co. had had a free
leg it is doubtful if it could have enlarged
the output much above the 10,112 tons pro-
duced. Several of the good faces cut out,
and in the north heading the seam shrank
to a bare 2ft. of good coal. This meant high
costs, as also did the faults, necessitating
dead work in getting drives on to new levels.
In addition, the job of shifting the north
tunnel plant to its new site proved costly.
So the Board records a loss of £1035 for tue
half-year, and with the co.’s banker clamor-
ing for a reduction of the overdraft Jum-
bunna has to make calls; Along with others
Jumbunna coal is up Os. per ton, but even
so chairman Boyd fears that his men will
get rich so quickly under the new award that
they won’t do their best.
“8.G.”: Is Priminister Hughes trying to
appear as an international philanthropist
in respect of our coal trade V While it is
obviously necessary that the export of Aus-
tralian coal should be restricted, it is equally
necessary that we should get the best price
for what we do ship away. Why should
foreign buyers who are willing to pay up to
40s. per ton for high-class Newcastle coal
be permitted to purchase the stuff at only
2,15. 9d.V The Commonwealth’s financial
position demands that we should go after
every penny possible from our surplus pro-
ducts, and it is up to the Federal Govern-
ment to put a stop to the sale of our coal to
foreigners at present bargain prices.
Tongkah Compound directors are out with
their scheme for financing Compound No.
2, which takes over the Ampangan area,
near Seremban (F.M.S.). No. 2 is to be a
£lOO,OOO go, in which the Ampangan ven-
dors get 17,000 fully-paids. Compound
originally thought to hold on to the 82,400
contribs., but has now decided to take 7400
fully-paids and pass on 75,000 contribs. to
its shareholders, one No. 2 share being
offered for every two Compounds. These
contribs. are to be paid to 13si, and out of
the £48,750 thus raised £25,000 is to be ex-
changed for the parent co.’s old dredge, the
£7OOO cash paid by Compound to the vendors
is to be refunded, and the balance of £16,750
is the estimated cost of dismantling and
removing the dredge and getting it busy at
Ampangan. This means that No. 2 will
commence tin-winning early next year.
A. C. S. McLeod, who tested the area, selected
117 acres which he estimates average 26ft.
and 15oz. oxide per yard. But the Com-
pound circular makes no guess at prospective
profits: shareholders are left to decide for
themselves the cash value of the proposition.
Bethune check-bored an area which The
Bulletin believes to be the one this co. has
secured, and reported only 13oz. If so, be-
tween McLeod’s and Betlmne’s estimates
there is considerable difference : taking tin at
£250 London, recoveries at DO p.e. and
working costs at 6(1., the former’s figuring
would probably give a profit of, roughly,
£139,000 in five to six years; on Betlmne’s
the profit would probably be round about
£99,000.
When Ampangan has been worked off,
Tongkah Compound’s next problem will be
the equipment of the Mantin Setul pro-
perty, where, according to McLeod, 144 acres
give an average of 27ft. of 15.660 z. ground,
90 acres 12oz. dirt, and a further 125 acres
go about 9ioz. Having passed its plant over
to the No. .2 co. Compound will have to
look for a new dredge, which will probably
run into about £75.000. After the settling
with the pup float it will probably have
about £40,000 in hand. There are about
a score of years’ work ahead of one dredge
at Mantin Setul. and if a second dredge is
to be put on to the job, or the old one re-
purchased when it has cleaned up Ampan-
gan, still further capital will be required.
On the present basis, it looks as though.
Compound will have a capitalisation of
about £200.000 with, a property returning a
probable £400,000 in about 14 years.
Judging by other propositions, it will not
be surprising if some writing down Will be
necessary—that is, unless estimates are low
or the tin market improves.
Kalumpang (F.M.S.) during its past 12
months handled 792,000yd5. for 285£ tons
oxide. Costs worked out at £72 10s. per
ton, but the management hopes to get those
figures down in future. However, a profit
of almost £9B 16s. per ton was made, the
total haul on working account being £29,691.
Five shillings per share (£25,000) was
passed out to shareholders during the year.
The old Lucknow field (N.S.W.) is
credited with having given over £2.000,000
of gold within an area of 50 acres, most of
the metal having been won above 750 ft.
But it is possible that more will yet be
heard of the field, which languished in the
late ’nineties and gradually faded out until
since 1911 no active mining has been done.
However, senior-geologist L. F. Harper, of
the Mines Department, has recently made a
detailed examination of the old ground to
ascertain whether there were “any geolo-
gical features likely to justify a revival.” It
was not an easy job: considering the import-
ance of the field very little evidence is avail-
able from the records; the old hands
destroyed surface indications; and the under-
ground workings have been waterlogged for
20 years or more. Nevertheless. L. F.
Harper has got together a very informative
little volume surveying past operations and
the geological features of the field, and his
investigations have opened the way for
further prospecting, with ‘‘big possibilities”
offering if work supports theory. Harper
sees chances on the south-east of the field,
where “at least one of the necessary factors
associated with Lucknow ore bodies must
occur.” Some time ago a local syndicate got
to work on what looks to be the extension
of the serpentine mass, and an underlay
shaft is down 50ft. The Department has
come to its assistance with a grant from the
prospecting vote, and a crosscut is to go
out in the direction of the supposed contact.
Ulam marble, near Rockhampton, is de-
veloping favorably, and may entirely replace
the Carrara product, which we used to im-
port from Italy. The immense white out-
crops were well known in Rockhampton, but
it w r as not until Government Geologist Dun-
stan a few years ago drew attention to the
probable value of the deposit for monu-
mental marble that the local residents became
interested. Sydney capital has since
filtered in. and three cos. are now active.
The Australian White Marble Co. some time
ago reached the producing .stage, and is now
executing orders for Melbourne and Sydney.
The area is large and the tonnage enormous,
the only drawback being the occurrence of
diorite and felsite dykes which traverse the
field, introducing defects of color and struc-
ture in their vicinity. Even so, to a con-
venient quarrying depth on the various leases
there are probably millions of tons of fine-
grained statuary marble which Australian
experts compare with the Italian white. The
field extends from nine to 14 miles from
Bajool siding, 21 miles from Rocky. The
Carrara Marble Syndicate has just landed a
large channeler from America, and will be
fulfilling southern orders shortly, while the
Mines Department has granted a subsidy to
assist development of the Australian White
Marble Co.’s property. Averleagh farm,
nine miles from Bajool, has been taken up
by Rockhampton men, but no work has yet
been done.
* * * *
A Brisbane syndicate is putting up £5OOO
to bore for oil at Mt. Walker, in the Rose-
wood (Q.) district, and operations will start
immediately. The site is not far from Glen
Alvon, where a bore went down 600 ft. some
years ago and encountered gas, which was
largely methane, and therefore was probably
derived from coal seams. The official
reports on this bore record that a man was
lighting his pipe alongside the borehole and
accidentally set fire to the escaping gas.
Probably this incident is responsible for the
local tradition that the district has oil, and
now the cash is being put up to test the
country at greater depth.
* * * *
“W’gabba” : Allow the ore diviner plenty
of rope, and it is only a matter of time when
he will be a corpse. One has lately been
divining for gold at Goomeri (Q.), and out
of four sites tested three have proved abso-
lute duds. In the first colors were found
near the surface, but for the last 50ft. not
even a trace showed up. Two other sites
selected went down on solid basalt, a most
unlikely formation for gold. But the faith-
ful had put down a shaft and partly tim-
bered it on the strength of their belief.
Another diviner selected a site at Rose-
wood. Coal was to be found at 200 ft.; but
the bore has gone 300 ft. without hitting a
band. The diviner’s luck was out. for he
selected a spot 20 yards from the concealed
crop of a seam. Still, if he had made in-
quiries, he would have avoided a foolish mis-
take, for a few chains away the Caledonian
Co. many years ago had extensively bored
through this country to a depth of 400 ft.,
and the Walloon coal measures here are
nearly as flat as a billiard-table. The most
recent effort by a diviner was to attempt to
locate the extension of the silver-lead ore
body at Indooroopilly, near Brisbane. The
rod tipped the ore to be found at a depth
of 30 to 40 feet, but again the diviner has
proved a false prophet.
The collapse of Mt. Monger (W.A.) has
been followed by demands from the public
to know what action the Government is
going to take against the promoters of some
of the delusions there. Lass o’ Gowrie, or
"i-assoed” Gowrie, as it is now called, was
floated on reports of high values, and of
£25.000 obtained by the option co. from the
public the promoters and vendors got
£lO,OOO. Now shareholders are told that
there is _ very little gold in the show.
McCahon’s was foisted on an excited public
immediately after a Kalgoorlie indignation
meeting, presided over by the Mayor, had
threatened to lynch, and burnt the erfigy of.
a Bulletin man for declaring that where
ounces were supposed to be there were not
even pennyweights.
* * * *
Mutooroo manager Jack Warrick replies
to Grut’s gibe about the alleged primi-
tive method of working that show by
telling the Board that to have opened
up the property in the "up-to-date”
way talked of by Grut would have
meant the expenditure, perhaps before it was
justified, of £15,000 on surface equipment
and plant. This showy way of doing things
has, says Warrick, been popular in the West
for many years, but as its main object in
the case of prospecting ventures has been
to make an impression on the public for
market purposes, he says he is not in accord
with it. There may be something in this
contention; nevertheless, Warrick’s back-
talk does not dispute the revelation that
Mutooroo is a poor affair.
Some disgruntled Edna May Main Lode
shareholders, who claimed to represent
14.000 shares, met in Perth the other day
and passed resolutions expressing dissatis-
faction with the way in which the co.’s
option at Ivanowna had been handled, and
also protested against the Board having-
allowed the vendor to control the show.
They also complained bitterly of the direc-
tors having made a call, and then ceasing
operations when the show was “within easy
range of proving its possibilities.” At that
stage a telegraphic announcement arrived
from the Board to sav that the £3500 which
the co. had in hand when it took up the
option had all gone and that the venture
was likely to be abandoned.
* * * #
Lambie’s recent find of gold, silver-lead,
copper, rubies and marble, etc., “in new
country.” on the Gascoyne (W.A.). is
described by State Mining-Engineer Mont-
gomery as an interesting prospecting enter-
prise. Picked samples of ore by wet assay
gave 44 p.c. lead, 15oz. silver and a trace
of gold. There was no sign of copper, and
no mention is made by Montgomery of either
rubies or marble, lie adds that the value
of the find will depend upon its magnitude,
for unless it proves to be much bigger than
other known deposits in that part of the
West qartage costs to the nearest port (239
miles) will kill it. There are many gold
and base-metal deposits scattered about the
Gascoyne country, but until railway or other
cheap transport can be obtained, they are
of no value.
* * * *
Perth is hearing more about “oil dis-
coveries” in the nor’-west of the State. This
time yarns a is told of a distant pool with
a bitumen and oil coating, and of a lode in
limestone country going .14 p.c. crude oil.
In view, however, of Mines Minister Scad-
dan’s recent remark in Parliament that all
the Government geologists had reported
against the possibility of oil being found in
the West, little interest is being taken in
the reports.
* * * *
Bendigo Amalgamated won 280410 z. from
4099 tons, including 400 oz. from the plates,
during the past fortnight. This yield gives
a profit of about £4OOO and takes the co.’s
credit balance to £135,000. Things gener-
ally have brightened up at the mines out-
side the Constellation. Picking the spurs
in both the Carlisle and Unity is providing
fair-grade stone, and there are said to be
prospects of profitable dirt flowing to the
mill for some time. But as the spurry sys-
tem has not been proved to be more regular
in grade than other makes elsewhere in Ben-
digo, the wish is father to the thought. On
the law of averages the time has come for
something to turn up to help Dyason through
again, and with £135,000 in hand he can
prospect as vigorously as ever. But the
chances are that he will prefer to do his
prospecting in the industrial sphere.
* * *
W. IX. Cundy has been whispering a few
encouraging words to North May Queen,
Malmsbury (Vic.). This co. holds 340yds.
along the course of the reef channel, and
Cundy says that prospects offer ample in-
ducements to sink a shaft. The co. has
already put a shaft down 20ft., but Cundy
declares that it is too far west, and advises
a survey to find the most suitable site. He
anticipates that shaft-sinking will disclose
that saddle reefs overlie the May Queen
reef.
* * * *
Osmiridium has now reached the record
price of £42 per oz., and with the approach
of the dry season diggers are flocking to
the serpentine belt that lies between the
Donaldson and Wilson rivers (Tas.). Only
the high price of the ineial makes the field
at all attractive, and a slump to £2O per
oz. would force the majority of the diggers
elsewhere. But with present prices and
prospects of an early dry summer there is
a likelihood of a record production from the
long stretches of the deep and treacherous
Savage River. Metal buyers are doubtful
about the price maintaining its present level,
which is apparently mostly due to present
chaotic exchange. A sudden slump is always
a possibility.
Last year Maoriland imported one-seventh
of its coal requirements from Australia. Pro-
duction has fallen off no less than 420,000
tons per annum during the past four years,
while imports have increased .102,000 tons.
The current year indicates a further con-
siderable drop in local production: to the
end of July 230,000 fewer tons were pro-
duced than over the same period last year.
Industrial troubles, absence of coal-cutting
machinery and the backward state of develop-
ment of existing mines are contributing
causes.
In 1010 the Blackwater gold-mines (M.L.)
crushed 24.000 tons for £52.012 and a profit
of £10.547. Recent developments to the
south of the main shaft have exposed a large
tqnnage of ore which lias considerably ex-
tended the life of the mine. Reserve ore is
estimated at 87,502 tons, grading 10.20dwt.
over an average width of 3ft.
Progress (M.L.) during 1010 crushed only
15,080 tons of ore for £10.020, and showed
a loss of £0207. Restricted development,
due to shortage of labor and increased operat-
ing costs (now 28s. O.Od. per ton), has made
the old mine look sick, and unless further
rich ore is exposed its life is limited. Last
year’s average recovery was only 7dwt. per
ton, which is not good enough.
(Continued on page 22.)


THEODORE AND FIHELLY THANK THEIR MAJORITY.


The “Brogue”—a Shoe for Outdoors!
Golfers favor the Brogue Shoe for the links, their experience
having proved that this particular make is the best for
service. The uppers are greatly reinforced by the special
type of golosh. The heavy wide-welted soles give extra-
long wear.
The Brogue is an ideal style for general use. When fitted
with Phillips’ Rubbers it is ideal for golf.
Tan Willow Calf, or Black Box Calf,
47/6
PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size and toe-fitting required.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
gd
inc %.
INSTITUTE
Dept. A.
ROLLED
GOLD,
£l/1/-
(fk
%
Complete
with
Case,
£l/1/-
We do not eater for any
of the eyes. We simply
failing sight, which sets
about the age of 40.
diseases
correct
in at
Write for particulars and
our self-measurement form,
which will be sent on re-
ceipt of a post-card to
No money asked.
Pay post office
when spectacles
are delivered.
Box 702 G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management v-f Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home ere assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America cr the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
MINCHINBURY
“John Hop” : He was a long, lean, cow-
flavored boy of 35, down from the Valley
of Boobs, all knees, knobs and elbows, and
he approached the most superior super, on
the course at Caulfield on Cup Day. Pluck-
ing the great, cold man by the elbow he
drew him mysteriously aside and spoke in
an awful whisper. “Boss, I want you to
SHARING THE BURDEN
THE DEAR GIRL: “I don't see what you’ve
got to growl about. I only ask you to
lift me over the worst places, and even
then I carry the flowers
keep an eye on me,” he said. “I'd like you
to stick near me and then toiler me home.
I’m stayin’ at the , in Bourke-street,
and I orter be watched.” “Good G —d!
Why, man?” demanded the super. The man
from Boobyallock looked about cautiously
and continued: “I’ve heard about thieves
and spielers follerin’ a bloke home when
he’s had a win, and doin’ him in.” “It’s
sometimes done,” admitted the super. “Well.
I’ve had a big win, and I want you to watch
over me. I backed Antarin for the Gwyn
Nursery at 50 to 1 !” “How t much did you
put on ?” Boobyallock lowered his voice.
“Five bob!” he whispered.
“Grego” : As the law r stands now in most
of the States of the Commonwealth, a
stranger may present here the certificate of
an institution in another country and be
granted registration, whereas in the country
in which the certificate was issued its
possession would not entitle the owner
to practise even as a horse-leech. The United
States, particularly in the East, reeks with
“colleges” and “universities” which are
scorned where they
are know n : some
of them actually
conduct correspond-
ence classes in
medicine! Half-a-
dozen unqualified
cranks may get
together, call them-
selves a “univer-
sity faculty,” and
sell degrees and
diplomas b y the
bushel. Besides,
there are several
so-called State Uni-
versities, one of
them in Nevada,
wlii c h, although
they possess facul-
ties of medicine,
are unrecognised
outside of their own
boundaries, yet the
holder of a degree
from any of these
establishments can
present his certifi-
cate in Australia
and practically demand to be registered,
though the Medical Board which deals with
his application may never have heard of the
university where he is alleged to have re-
ceived his training.
Sir Arthur Pearson, the founder and main-
spring of St. Dunstan’s, the London hostel
where blinded soldiers are trained, has a
journalist friend and colleague, W. E.
Hobbs, at present in Australia. Supple-
menting the accounts already given in The
Bulletin of St. Dunstan’s war-time activi-
ties, Mr. Hobbs says that when he left Lon-
don there were still under training some 700
war-blinded men, and unfortunately no end
to the hostel’s work is in sight; for besides
the 1700 men who were immediately blinded,
23,000 were discharged with badly-injurerl
eyes. Many of these are passing into total
blindness, so that men are still coming into
St. Dunstan’s as rapidly as in the deadliest
days of the war.
“Ex-Dig.”: Now and then a renegade
Frenchman bobs up and confesses before the
axe falls that he was a spy for the Germans
behind the allied lines. We of
the A.I.F. were perfectly aware
that there were spies among the
native population: it was to
deal with the nuisance that
civilians were turned out of the
fighting areas, although the
safety of their skins was the
customary excuse. A French
couple kept going in the cellar
of their ruined estaminet, prac-
tically in our support trenches.
They were not suspected of
anything more than a keen
desire for money, but in Bel-
gium a peasant was discovered
who had given fire directions to
the enemy by his manoeuvres
with an old grey plough-horse.
By moving the hands of a clock
another spy (the A.I.F. spotted
and settled him) informed Fritz
how his shots were going: and
a windmill was another means
of conveying information. The
Hun advance on the Somme in
1918 owed a great deal of its
success to skilful spy work.
But in one instance the game
didn’t come off. An Australian
unit received an order to with-
draw. The Digger C. 0., a
downy bird, detained the wrath-
ful military dignitary w 7 ho con-
veyed the message until it should
be verified: and when a surprised answer
came back that the order was a fraud, and
the Diggers were to hold on for all they
were worth, a Fritz spy was executed with
promptitude and despatch.
•:<■***
“Silenus”: The local-option poll in Vie.
meant a lot of bunce for many mediums of
publicity, from the daily newspapers up-
wards. Just before the vote was taken a pub-
lic entertainer included in his bill a sketch
designed to show that another little drink
or two wouldn’t do any harm. A friend put
him wise to the position, whereupon he told
some of the liquor interests that he was
going to drop the sketch, but could keep it
going till election day if it were made worth
while. It was, to the tune of £lOO or so.
According to J. J. Liston, one of the head
serangs of the Liquor Trade Defence Union,
the Cold Tea advocates planned to stage
some tragic comedies of their own, on the
lines of the ancient and debauched citizen
in Hal Gye’s Bulletin sketch, who was
going to help the campaign against drink by
being one of the horrible examples. Liston
alleged that arrangements were being made
for citizens in an advanced state of beer to
be disgusting spectacles about the place on
polling day. But, instead of thanking him
A STITCH IN TIME.
MR. DE WET: "Why are you clearing the
umbrella stand?”
MAME DE WET: “Because we have com-
pany this evening.”
MR. DE WET: “Surely you don’t think they
would steal the umbrellas?”
MADAME DE WET : "No—but they might
identify some of them.”
kindly for a dashed good idea, C. M. Gor-
don, ran the opposition show, indig-
nantly denied that anything of the sort was
being, or would be, done.
“Mount Wellington”: Hobart possesses
between 200 and 300 occupied dwellings
which have been at various times condemned
by the Health authorities as unfit for human
habitation. This means that one house in
every 20 in the Speck’s biggest village ought
to have disappeared (some of them years
ago), but haven’t for the simple reason that
the occupiers are unable to obtain house-
accommodation elsewhere, and the City Coun-
cillors (elected on a quadruple franchise)
are all too tender-hearted or something to
order demolition of the rookeries. About the
time the war ended the Council virtuously
resolved to tackle the housing problem in
earnest. The municipality would build a few
score of nice workers’ dwellings. This month
the plans of four small cottages were con-
sidered. There’s hustle! Tasmania has a
Government Health Department, but it has
no power to prevent the City Council inde-
finitely pigeonholing the reports of its own
health officer. Parliament is considering a
bill to appoint a Director of Public Health
and define his duties. If given power to
compel city aldermen to live in a condemned
slum tenement until all condemned dwellings
are replaced by decent municipally-provided
cottages or otherwise, the new Director will
be able to quickly solve the housing problem
in at least one overcrowded city.
JA * * *
“Savile R.” about a recent litigant:—
I know nothing of the merits of the ease as
between Emanuel Myerson, ex-tailor, of Sydney, and
Smith’s Weekly, from which he got a farthing dam-
ages last week (after claiming £10,000) because
the paper had called him a “Monarch of the Slums.”
I only know Emanuel as a dusty, oleaginous little
foreigner, in whose shop-windows appeared suits of
strange and varied designs and colors. There were
coats with an insane preponderance of buttons and
pleats; waistcoats which with a dash of blacking
would have done for evening-dress purposes: trousers
which might have come from the wardrobe of a
seedy masher of the Mid-Victorian period. As surely
as 1 tried to slink past the Myerson emporium
unseen, someone, the owner probably, would shuffle
on to the pavement and, accosting me as “Boy,”
suggest a new outfit. The implied criticism stung
me ultimately to retaliation. “Do I look.” 1 asked
him, “like the sort of person who would wear that?”
And I indicated a coat built to reach the wearer’s
knees, with a slit in the back about two feet long
and three dozen buttons arranged in sets of six
down the front. “Prove it,” I proceeded, “and
I will cheerfully destroy myself.” His evasive
answer was: “Veil, there’s no need to go fer to get
narked about it.” From that day till the time
Emanuel Myerson retired to deal in real estate I
avoided his shop by making a detour; but the resent-
ment remained. Had I been on the jury which tried
his libel suit I would have addressed my colleagues
on retirement, and without having listened to a word
of the evidence, in some such terms as these: “Well,
gentlemen, we find for the defendant newspaper, 1
presume? I suggest £5OOO damages against the
plaintiff.” The attitude might not have been strictly
correct in law; but under the “rough justice,” to
borrow Bacon’s phrase, of our jury-system, the issue
is mostly decided upon irrelevancies of the sort.
“Carrier” (Melbourne) : I have just
moved live families from a house of seven
rooms (and “offices”) that has been sold.
One family had two babies and another had
one. The shortage of houses seems to be
getting more acute every week, and it will
take years to overcome the scarcity. Young
married people with babies can’t live all the
time in the picture theatres.
“Thirty One”: During a fight in which our
artillery covered the Americans a sergeant
in my battery slipped on some wet ground
while loading his gun. He struck the nose
of the shell (shrapnel) against the face of
the breech, and the impact set the fuse burn-
ing. The sergeant threw himself to the
ground, cuddled the shell underneath him.
and told his crew to get. They got. But in-
stead of being blown to bits, he caught the
one chance in thousands. It was a dud and
the fuse burned out. Which was tin 1 greater
—his luck or his courage?
# * * *
Ruth Beale sends a line from N’York: —
At, the local University, where there is a very
excellent School of Home Economics, they have to
test the ingredients for cooking before mixing.
Everything that can be preservatised is preservatised
' —meat, fish, vegetables, groceries. Chemicals form
a by no means inconsiderable part of one’s meals
and the internal quarrel between boric acid, sul-
phate of copper, aniline dyes and other unknown
quantities is showing, the experts say, on the national
physique. I shall say grace before meals with fervor
when I get back to the land where there are fewer
“ideals” and more administration. True, the Repub-
licans here are vowing to restore the efficiency of
the Roosevelt Administration and bring the Bureau
of Chemistry to something like its former standard
—under the famous old Dr. Ilarvey W. Wiley. What-
ever the cause of the trouble—war or Wilson or both
—the fact remains that food is both dear and adul-
terated, and fancy wages do not go far unless one
is very hard-working in the home as regards the
vegetable-garden and orchard and the preserving
WICKED.
“Ed love to see myself as others see me.”
“What naughty thoughts you get into your
head!”
pan. But, then, one has now to keep the family
supplied with home-made beer, and that cuts into
the preserving time. Prohibition is a huge success
in closing the saloons and a total failure in keeping
alcohol from the people. They make home-brew,
and wines from oranges, grape-fruit, lemons, wild
grapes, elderberries, dandelions, pineapples, weeds
and all the old-fashioned ingredients; and the new-
est thing in crime is the whisky burglar who raids
cellars. Admissions for drunkenness at Bellevue
and other great general hospitals have returned to
normal pre-prohibition figures, and the patients
either recover quickly or pass out west or to the
blind asylums—the most fenrful penalty for a
“drop.”
BILL—EX-GENTLEMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The sequel to a long series of city robberies was
the appearance at the Blank Court this morning of
William Blank, retired gentleman, charged with
breaking and entering.”—Sun.
For years he had led a Society life.
He rose in the morning at nine,
Ate bacon and eggs with his elderly wife,
Was told where she’d booked them to dine,
Then drifted to town in a casual way
And slowly killed time for the rest of the day.
As evening approached he lounged back to his house
And dressed for the banquet ahead.
No fragment of zest did such functions arouse;
He frequently wished himself dead,
As imbecile females, on this side and that,
Distracted his efforts to eat with their chat.
The dinner consumed, he was called on to sit
A musical comedy through—
A medley of gags lacking int’rest or wit
By folks whose allurements were few ;
Or, worse, he was ordered to one of those halls
Where jazzing the young and the frivolous calls.
One day, like a meteor seen in the night,
A notion flashed into his brain:
From Fashion’s dull world he would hasten in flight
And never appear there again!
No longer a gentleman (he had retired)
He plunged into crime like an artist inspired.
That happened long since, and in all tire best gaols
He’s now addressed simply as “Bill” ;
The inmates, in tones of respect, relate tales
Regarding his courage and skill;
They talk of his feats in the strong-rooms of banks
As heroes are mentioned by men in the ranks.
At times he recalls, with a spasm of pain,
His former respectable life:
Its duties and all that they brought in their train,
The horrible face of his wife,
And similar things which he never desired
And offers up thanks for the day he retired.
N.S.W.
J. D.


For a Perfect Shave
Rub a little Wawn’s Wonder-Balm into the
face just before applying the lather.
The razor cuts cleaner; a cool. fr=sh feeling
follows, and there’s a freedom from rash and
irritation with a velvety smoothness of the
skin.
Barber’s rash and other skin diseases, pimples,
blackheads, etc., disappear.
Mick Simmons’ and all first-class barbers’
saloons use
Wawn’s Wonder-Balm
Packed in sanitary, collapsible air-tight
tubes, Wawn’s Wonder-Balm is unrivalled for
all skin troubles, sunburn, tender skin, piles
and catarrh.
2/- a Tube from all hairdressers, chemists
and stores, or post free from
V. A. WAWN,
44 Elizabeth Street, Redfern, Sydney.
The Best Place for Your Savings.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY
(with 144 Branches and 506 Agencies).
41
INTEREST
on deposits up to £5OO
and 3i per cent, on any
excess up to £lOOO.
4
Personal, joint and trust accounts opened.
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
For IMMEDIATE Delivery.
OIL WELL
DRILLING PLANTS,
Standard and Rotary.
The drilling of Oil Wells is a technical
business which requires special Plants
worked by experienced Drillers. Without
these testing for Oil is doomed to failure.
On application we will quote for Plants
and supply experienced Drillers, and advise
on all matters appertaining to testing for
Oil. 12
“Lonely Coot” : I haven’t a friend in the
world and I would never receive a letter but
for the fact that I systematically delay my
payments to grocers, gas companies, post-
masters-general, income-tax departments and
all sorts of tradesmen and institutions. I
like the ga.s companies best, because they
give a better display of fury for an overdue
quid than any other. Their accounts come
in first on white paper. I carefully put
them aside and wait. I imagine their treas-
urers afar off with ears cocked to catch the
rustle of my cheque-book. There is no
rustle. The tide of indignation rises, and
at last I get what I want. It is a final
notice, gone blue in the face, demanding
payment. It splutters with threats and
mentions “proceedings.” That is my hour
of joy. No longer am I an object of
indifference to the world. An apoplectic gas
company is trembling with indignation and
thinking of me every hour. If I died in the
night that gas company would mourn like
a brother —a brother with money owing to
him. I delay as long as I dare, wondering
occasionally whether it would not be pos-
sible to wring an extra-final notice —say one
of a deeper blue with red tear-marks. At
last, very reluctantly, I send a cheque. A
cold, ice-white receipt comes back. Once
more (in a double sense) my gas company
is quite collected. Then the only thing for
a lonely man to do is to get into its debt
again as fast as possible.
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: Queer things happened in
the moments of excitement at the Front—
and “moments of excitement” were rarer
than some stay-at-homes imagine. When a
mere skirmishing line of the First Divvy saw
masses of Huns surging forward near
Meteeren, old Jansen got a jamb in his rifle.
In trying to set the thing right he somehow
presented a mark to the enemy ; and a
bullet came along and took the top of his
trigger-finger off. There was no chance of
light casualties leaving the line, so Jansen
cursed vigorously, and continued firing, using
the second finger. He cursed again, wrapped
a handkerchief around his finger-stump
before recharging his magazine and returned
to business. Right up to the time they
reached our line the massed Germans looked
as if they would overwhelm us; but we
hurled bombs, and the attacking hordes
melted away. We “stood to,” expecting other
attacks; and then the rations arrived. Jan-
sen butted in with the others. “Eh, Dutch,
you’ve lost a finger, haven’t yer?” asked
someone. “Cripes!” said “Dutch,” looking
at his bandaged hand, “so I have!” In the
excitement of working his bolt he had for-
gotten all about it.
“Dale”: As an ordinary citizen who in-
dulges in liquor, races and smoking I suggest
to Treasurers that these are not the only
amusements which are fairly taxable. I
should like to see some of the people who
enjoy Pleasant Sunday Afternoons assist in
carrying the national bur-
den. A poll-tax upon
gentlemen who mow
lawns, keep white mice
and adopt other devices
for shirking their natural
obligations would be only just; and the man
who blows a tin whistle has no claim to
special consideration over the chap who
blows smoke. Too much of the white man’s
burden is being borne by sinners.
* * * *
“Scalp L.”: There was a bright moment
at Brisbane when the germ-catchers of the
Commonwealth were debating whether white
women could thrive in the tropics. Dr.
Breinl, of the Townsville Institute, said they
could, and other doctors with tropical experi-
ence said they did, but the opposite view
was taken by old-style practitioners, the
Bourbons of their profession, who trotted
out the “arguments” that have served them
for 50 years. A doctor from Broome (VY .A.)
volunteered the information that the wives
of the pearlers got languid and pallid, found
housework a burden, couldn t jazz with
facility, and considered it necessary, at least
once a year, to recruit their exhausted
powers in Perth. But when he had finished
his jeremiad a brain-wave struck him. I
must admit, however,” he said, “that I have
seen barmaids who looked as fresh as roses
BECHE-DE-MER.
"Archibald!” .
“It’s all right, Stella —I was just remarking that jiggers haven’t changed much since
you was a girl.”
after spending 10 years in the North-West.
It was the hit of the conference, and when
the delegates decided to recommend “assisted
immigration into the tropics of suitable per-
sons of white races, e.g., domestic servants,
some of the young bloods wanted to add the
words u and barmaids,” arguing. that there
was good scientific warrant for it, and that
it would give a color of romance to an other-
wise bald and unattractive resolution. But
dull conventionality prevailed.
“Thirty One”: In a train last week I heard
a man saying superstition was all rot. Let
me put this up to the sceptics. I was in
charge of a forward limber line near Aubig-
ney, in June. 1918, and we came in for a fair
wad of strafe. The two-up school and kindred
societies met and stayed close to a good,
deep dugout. One day Fritz lobbed an eight-
inch shell among the mob and it burst.
When the smoke cleared no man had as
much as a scratch ! We found a piece after-
wards and it had a big 51 painted on the
base. Now, 51 was the number of our
battery, and after that the school met where
it fancied. To a man it argued that he’d
lobbed one with our number on and missed,
and there was nothing to worry over. Not
one of that crowd or any of the horses was
as much as marked during the following
months to the end of the job.
“Bloggs” introduces Euthanasia Dope:—
Everybody has been slapping the bibulous and
under-clothed Society girl who is a chain-smoker
of cigarettes. But the mayoresses and others have
ignored the maiden’s mother. There are hundreds of
HER SUCCESS.
BEAUTY: “They say that Mr. Brown married
her because she teas such a splendid
manager.”
THE BEAST: "Yes, he said she was the first
woman he’d met who knew how to mind
her own business.”
sets in the vast assemblage which attends Govern-
ment House functions throughout Australia. Eutha-
nasia Dope is a familiar figure in every one of them.
She is about 50. In some cases she dyes her hair;
in others she refrains. She is sometimes thin;
occasionally medium; now and then fat. Her husband
works or boodles, and she spends the money. Ever
since they, became sufficiently financial to entertain
anybody she has fixed an amorous eye on Govern-
ment House. The Grail which she has pursued for
a quarter of a century is a “follower,” x>r “young-
man” on one of the vice-regal staffs, or in the R.N.
That failing, as it usually does, the competition
here being keen, she will fall back on a travelling
Englishman of means and position; or on a remit-
tance-man (provided he is reasonably presentable) ,
or an actor; or, in the last resort, on one of her
husband’s friends. Where Euthanasia is very rich,
very important and not particularly attractive, the
last association often develops into a permanent
affair, which is almost as respectable as marriage.
More especially where the admirer is himself un-
alluring. But ordinarily one or other of the parties
soon proves faithless.
In the intervals between the loss of one devotee
and the acquisition of another—the periods growing
longer and longer as the eating years roll by—Mrs.
Dope solaces herself with cards, dress, drink and
gloomy comments on the moral infamies of her
friends. The time at length arrives when no amount
of free entertainment avails to chain any self-
respecting male to her side. She gives up love-
making, returns to her husband (often to his em-
barrassment, he having become involved elsewhere),
grows bitterer than ever about those who are still
in a position to philander, and drinks and smokes
more heavily than before. In rare cases she neither
drinks nor smokes, but where she denies herself such
soothing influences she is proportionately more
destructive as a moral critic. Every succeeding yeai
she crowds on more cosmetics to hide the ravages of
alcohol and late hours; and every year her costumes
become more fantastic. By the time Euthanasia has
reached a stage where she is undistinguishable but
for the costliness of her clothes from one of those
tragic old female figures whose club is a wine-shop,
she is eligible to serve on public committees, and
mayoresses start to listen respectfully to her views
on the immoral habits of the rising generation.
* * * *
“Dido”: Has Sir Arthur by any chance in
his frequent communings with the spirits ever
come across the spook of a Martian ? Has he
never encountered a reincarnation from any
other world than this? It would appear that
the depths and widths of uttermost space are
given up entirely to ghosts from earth. It
is a most unfortunate monopoly. If there
is one thing of which I would care to get
first-hand information from an authentic
spook it is the number and nature of the
inhabitants of other spheres, if any, and it
is a marvellous thing that no spirit from else-
where has yet been hit upon by the mediums
through whom Oliver Lodge and Conan Doyle
do business.
“Footslogger Too” : “Gunner” is quite right
(B. 14/10/’2O). There are many cases of
apparently unfit men going into action and
turning out trumps. What do you think of
this for a record in an infantry brigade?
Captain McMorrison (sth Battalion) lost an
eye at Pozieres, but rejoined his battalion in
about nine months and was subsequently
killed in the 1918 brush-up. Captain
“Birdie” Heron turned up on the Peninsula
a few months before the evacuation with a
glass eve and a monocle. When “Pompey’
Elliott' (then c.o. 7th Battalion) returned
to the fold, he imshied “Birdie” out and sent
him to Lemnos. “Pompey” then fell down
Brown’s Dip after chasing some Diggers who
were over-hilarious and broke his ankle.
He was imshied, and “Birdie” wangled his
way back. This hide-and-seek between the
two lasted for months, much to the arnus^-
ment of all. It finished in Egypt—Tel-el-
Kebir, I think —and “Birdie” was sent back
to Australia for discharge. I next saw him
with his battalion at Passchendaele! Captain
Gilmour, of the sth Battalion, lost an eye on
the Peninsula, and returned to Australia, but
was back with us early in T 7. Both these
soldiers were subsequently wounded and were
there at the Armistice. To complete a
quartet in the 2nd Brigade, Major Ted Kerby
(Sth Battalion), who had a go for Ballarat,
also lost an eye, after which he rejoined his
battalion. He had a lead-pierced lung to con-
tend with as well. The only cross these four
received between them was the wooden one
of the gallant McMorrison.
* * * *
There was eating and drinking and ex-
pensive functioning the other day at Bulli
(N.S.W.) when a bit of a track that people
have known since childhood, having been
repaired, was “opened” in the presence of
Ministers and other brass-hats and gold-
sticks-in-waiting. As a small fraction of one
of 50 possible roads between Sydney and
Melbourne it was christened "the Prince s
Highway.” Minister Mutch led "ringing
cheers” and “God Save the King” was sung.
There was wattle; also there was rain. It
seemed a thin excuse for money-spending at
a time when the profiteer is raging in the
land, and the rich are growing richer, and
the poor are growing poorer; but it is a
poor heart that never paints the town red.
* * * *
“Crabtree” : The Chows who run a vegetable
garden near my habitation have taken the
necessary action to ensure good crops this
summer: for several nights they have been
exploding crackers about the boundaries of
their plantations. This, of course, will dis-
courage the evil spirits which assist snails,
slugs, blight, mildew, and so forth; but,
since the boss Chinese is a Congregational-
ist, it surprised me, and I questioned him.
“Me Ghlistian, yes!” he explained earnestly.
“Me play God send lain, glow cabbagee,
callot, all lightee; me burn-em joss-stick
flighten spilits, allee same do no halm. Plaps
velly good !”
* * * *
“Mr. Ocky” : Two of Victoria’s oldest iron
bridges are doomed. One spans the Yarra at
Church-street, between Richmond and South
Yarra: the other carries the traffic passing
over the Barwon between Geelong and Bel-
mont. The two were originally one, and
the parts were to have been assembled at the
Crimea. But something went wrong, and
they were brought to Australia and divided.
HER METHOD.
T HE PARSON: “I’m going to try to get a
donation from your husband. How
would you advise me to proceedt”
THE PARISHIONER: “Try a good cry. If
that won’t work go into hysterics.”
Both have now been declared obsolete, and
will be replaced as soon as somebody lends
the money.
NICE LITTLE NURSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the ’flu’s got you down, or you’ve broken a
limb,
And the doctor to hospital orders you off,
And the ambulance comes with its satellites grim,
You’ve cause for rejoicing, though doubters may
scoff.
The pain may be bad and the tucker be scant,
And nauseous doses may fill you with dread,
But this side of Heaven what more can you want
Than nice little nurses to tuck you in bed!
One comes with a smile and a touch on your wrist
And jams a thermometer half down your throat,
And, dreamily choking, you gaze through a mist
At eyes whose half-smiling demureness you note.
There’s a hot-water bottle laid close to your feet
And an extra-soft pillow placed under your head;
Oh ! pain is a pleasure and sickness a treat
When nice little nurses have tucked you in bed!
What chance has a grouch or a pain or an ache
’Gainst cheery good-humor which won’t be put
down!
You growl the most spiteful remark you can make —
It’s greeted with laughter instead of a frown.
Thej r tend you and tease you while sickness remains,
Till grisly old Death with his weapon has fled.
Ah! Omar had added some glowing quatrains
If nice little nurses had tucked him in bed.
K.S.W.
N. G.
A SONG OF A BROILING ICICLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“An Australian worker may have the coldest
views towards the Empire, and yet be its ardent
supporter.”—Sydney Telegraph.
Ardent and very cold he stands.
Chilled with a bitter flame of heat;
The frost-bite nips his burning hands,
Steam bubbles from his icy feet.
He hates the thought of empire still,
Yet loves it with a splendid zeal ;
Imperial shouting makes him thrill,
But leaves him deaf to its appeal.
Thus hot and happy, cold and sad,
He stands erect on half his ear;
And laughing with reluctance glad,
Adds groans to every rousing cheer.
Just how he plays his wondrous game,
Remaining whole while split in half,
I cannot tell. The vision came
In pitch-dark brightness of no name
To Sydney’s Daily Telegraph.
x.s.w.
MARY McC.


TH E
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees.
New South Wales: Victoria: Queensland
The only Trustee Company having
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Maekellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Sir H. Y. Braddon, K.8.E.,
M.L.C., F. B. S. Falkiner, Janies Kidd, W. H.
Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan Sinclair.
V. G. WATSON, JOHN MAIR,
Assistant Manager. Manager.
sg
dsg
ds
gds
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easv-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
Lamson
Store
Service
Co.,
102 Daking House,
Sydney.
Olderfleet, Collins Street
N.Z. —John Proctor. 200 High
W A.-H. Little &■ Co., 851
Melbourne.
St.. Christchurch
Hav St., Perth
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfHNQ ROOF GARDEN.
Manaerement F. T. CHHUSEMAN.
$)GEWOJfJty
EXTRA HIGH GRADE
SMOKING TOBACCO
Sliced Plug or Ready-Rubbed
is the Original Tobacco of
this style.
Does not bite the tongue.
In tins from all Tobacconists.
2] R. TOWNS & CO v Sydney Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Of a man who has changed his mind :
Back in Australia from the Imperial Press Confer-
ence Arthur Lovekin, proprietor of the Perth Daily
News, confided to the
A nous that what he
had seen of Prohibi-
tion in droughty
America had converted
him from a pro to an
anti. It is a humor-
ous confession, for
when Lovekin stood
for the Legislative
Council in Westralia a
few months ago, he
wa s enthusiastically
supported by the
liquor interest, though
his opponent, General
Hobbs, was so little of
a wowser that he was
repudiated by the
Brotherhood of Cold
Tea. But Perth doesn’t
take Lovekin as seri-
ously as the Akgus
did; he is the sort of
thinker who changes
his opinions when the
novelty wears off.
When his critics get
angry with “Lovey”
they revive an old
story that in the days
of his youth he was a
clown in a circus. He
was really ringmaster,
and an amateur at
that, but embittered
opponents insist that
he got his living by
grinning through a
horse-collar.
CONAN DOYLE.
Of the Vic. election casualties the most
notable was the defeat of Donald Mackin-
non. Honorary Assistant Minister for Lands,
at Prahran, which he had represented for
20 years. He knew he would have the fight
of his life against Labor, which had put up
A. F. Parker, a Billjim, and against Bung,
who had blacklisted him; but he refused to
take on, instead, Toorak or St. Kilda, neigh-
boring electorates, which were available
owing to the retirement of Bayles and
Wynne. His defeat means that the Assembly
loses one of its best types. He was not
renowned for quickness of decision or self-
reliance when big issues had to he faced,
but in the House and in the department lie
maintained the best traditions regarding
courtesy and good temper. In getting land
for Billjims he stood up to his fellow-squat-
ters, and altogether his work in the Lands
Department was a fine sequel to what he did
as Recruiting Director. He attained the
goal of his ambition seven years ago when
lie became Attorney-General. That was the
highest office held by George Higinbotham
in the Assembly, and he said it was good
enough for Higinbotham’s old pupil of the
’nineties.
Dr. Peter Green is to be Victoria’s next
Anglican archbishop. He is a Lancashire
man, quite radical as bishops go, and a man
with strong literary leanings. Peter himself
tells a story of a lady parishoner who, mis-
led by the apron possibly, once gushed, “Oh,
Doctor, you are quite a blue-stocking, aren’t
you?” Victoria has had bishops of many
colors, including Field Flowers, but this
will be her first P. Green.
The only new seat gained by Labor in
Queensland is Maranoa, where C. W. Conroy,
Mayor of Roma and local barber, scraped
home from stock-agent T. A. Spencer, who
unexpectedly won A.-G. Hunter’s old strong-
hold at the by-election. The Opposition has
been strengthened by such men as J. F.
Maxwell (Toowong) and J. W. Fletcher
(Port Curtis). Maxwell has made good as
a Brisbane alderman. Fletcher is a fighter
with a head for figures. He has been con-
nected with the northern beef-works for
years.
W. V. Ralston, who died in his sleep at
Brisbane the other morning, did great ser-
vice to Queensland; it was he who, when
general-manager Drury mysteriously dropped
out, had to take hold of the Q. N. Bank and
make something of the wreck. He did
the job so well that nobody was surprised
when, though lie was then well on .to 65, he
was pressed to be the first Governor of the
Commonwealth Bank. Like A. P. Stewart,
who had the work of hatching a Phoenix out
of the ashes of the A.J.S. Bank —the two
had many points of resemblance —Ralston’s
earlier experience had been pastoral. He
was born in Melbourne 74 years ago, spent
his youth in Maoriland, began station-
managing in Queensland, and had his first
bank job in Melbourne with the old Loudon
Chartered when he was nearly 30.
Australia’s oldest reverend is Septimus
Hungerford, of Sydney, now in his 96th year.
He is the son of Captain Emanuel Hunger-
ford, of the South Cork Militia, who emi-
grated with his family to Sydney in 1828
and settled near Maitland. Emanuel had
eight sons and two daughters; Thomas, the
sixth son, represented various Hunter River
constituencies in four Parliaments. Septi-
mus was ordained by Dr. Tyrrell, Bishop of
Newcastle, in 1853; his first appointment
was at Armidale, where he remained 21
years, his last at Enfield. 16 years. He is
the last of a large number of clerics of all
denominations who were receiving State aid
in 1863 when that source of income was
stopped by Parliament, though it is a pro-
vision of the Act, said to have been insisted
on by Queen Victoria, that all clergymen in
receipt of State stipends at the time should
receive the same during life. Mr. Hunger-
ford still spends one night each week at the
chess board.
A Collingwood man has invented a new
silencer, for motor cycles in particular. This
invention has put new hope into people living
near Billy Hughes. Some people have said
that the Prime Minister never sleeps, but
others know better: they have heard him at
it.
L. V. Biggs, the new organising sec. of
the National Union, has been 23 years on
the Age. Before coming to Vic. he stood for
London County Council and nearly got there.
The N. S. Wales Methodists have lost
William Robson, their doyen of local preach-
ers. He began pulpiteering when he was
15. and continued the habit until appendicitis
carried him off at 76. He was a native of
Newcastle, an accountant by profession and
an M.L.C. in his spare time. Bill Lyne
sent him to the Council in 1900, and in
after years the old man had as a fellow-
member his only son.
“H.H.”: When I consider Garden, the
soft-handed, leather-lunged ex-parson who
bosses the Sydney Labor Council —when I
consider him and what a tin god has been
made of him I always think of a line in the
Good Book out of which he once extracted
his crust —“Thou shalt not make unto thee
any raving image.”
Wonderful achievements in “plastic sur-
gery” in England are credited to a Maori-
lander, Harold Gillies, who is only 38. He
was in charge of the famous face surgery
at the Cambridge Hospital, Aldershot, and is
now chief plastic surgeon at the new Queen’s
Plospital for Facial Injuries at Sidcup, Kent.
A book recording the work he has done was
issued at three guineas and is already a
surgical classic. He has mended jaws with
bits of bone from the leg, built up noses with
cartilage from the ribs, filled holes in the
cheek with fatty tissues and covered them
with skin, and has won fame in his pro-
fession, the gratitude of hundreds of damaged
soldiers and—a C.B.E.
An Australian who can’t be charged with
going slow lives at Coff’s Harbor (N.S.W.).
Although only 32, she has just presented her
philosophical husband with a fifth set of
twins.
The Westralian University has made a
scientist of Monty O’Dowd, son of Bernard
the poet. Tiring of spouting revolutionary
socialism to unappreciative listeners the
young man took a science course at the Uni.
and turned it to such profit that he is now
the Government Meteorologist’s locum tenens.
Moreover, he tipped all the weather winners
in his first week. He boldly predicted that
it would be “fine and warm’’ every day, and
fine and warm it was.
John Mitchell Barr’s death has broken
another link with Vic.’s stormy political past.
He was in the Assembly in the late ’seventies
and early ’eighties when Berry and Service
were the two big leaders, and while the
O’Loglilen Government was in power, and got
edged out about the time Service and Berry
came together. A. T. Clark, a business partner
of Barr's, was Minister for Customs under
Berry in 1880-81, and still another partner,
W. M. Clark, was a suburban member for a
while.
“Millungera”: The whereabouts of “Wild”
Wright, notorious as an active sympathiser
of the Kelly gang, has been a puzzle for
years. Here’s the last chapter of his story.
After the destruction of the Kellys in 1880,
Wright went to Benulla, and with his
brother, “Dummy,” was in that locality for
years. The police looked upon him with an
unfriendly eye, and finally he cleared out
from the Kelly country and went droving.
He travelled to Old River in W.A., fell sick
and died in 1910 in the Northern Territory.
An abo. called Jackson was with him at the
end. Wright often boasted that it was he
who spied out the land at Jerilderie, at
which place he was seen the day before the
hold-up in 1879. Ned Kelly when a youth
was gaoled for horse-stealing, but protested
afterwards that he was innocent, and blamed
Wright and another for the offence.
Alexander, the just-dead evangelist, was
waiting to board the Adelaide express, and
filled in the few moments left with a final
exhortation to the enthusiasts before him.
At his most
ecstatic stage an
official whistled
the express o ff.
Then the shocked
followers sa w a
hatless reformer
leap with flying
coat-tails on to the
moving train. One
d ame acidly
expressed to an
official what she
thought of it: but
the cheerful sinner
replied, “Madam,
Air. Alexander
should watch as
well as pray!”
C. F. CROSBY,
President
Y.M.C.A., Mel-
bourne. — the last
drawing made for
The Bulletin by
Miss Hope Camp-
bell (‘"Bos"),
whose death her
friends are now
mourning.
George Aytoun, who faded out last, week in
Melbourne, at 65, had a long run on the
Inky Way and in Government jobs. In the
early ’nineties he was assistant sec. of the
Vic. Parliamentary Committee on Railways.
Later he was secretary to the Anti-Sweating
Board which paved the way for Factory
(wages board) legislation. Dr. Billy Maloney
and Joe Kirton are the only members of that
Board left. When all the State-inquiry work
had been cleaned up and the economical
Turner Government had frozen him out
Aytoun returned to the Age, from which he
had jumped off.
Martin a’Beckett Boyd, whose book of
verse was favorably noticed on a recent Red
Page, is a nephew of the late Justice
a’Beckett, and therefore related to the
a’Beeketts of London Punch, and he is a
grandson of the late Archibald Michie, the
barrister, who enlivened Melbourne in the
early ’seventies, and was the London Times
correspondent in Australia for some years.
His brother paints and lives on the results
as Penleigh Boyd, and another brother
makes pretty pottery and starves a bit while
the public is making up its mind.
That remarkable old schoolmaster, John
L. Young, has been commemorated once
more in Adelaide. He played a lone hand
in education, and his school died with him
40 years ago, but his old boys have made a
big mark in Adelaide, and they have an
annual dinner in his honor. Among the
prominent ones still available are Peter
Wood, Herbert Phillips, F. W. Bullock,
Frank Johnson, F. G. Scammell, and Doc-
tors J. C. Yerco and Harrold. Two scholar-
ships bearing Young’s name have been estab-
lished at Adelaide University, one by sub-
scription, the other by a bequest of J. H.
Finlayson, late of the Register.
11. A. Wilcox, the ex-general manager of
Melbourne’s cable trams, who reached the
terminus on October 15, would sooner walk
than ride any
day. He was a
teetotaller, a
non-smoker and
a great week-
e n d walking
tourist. With a
few fellow-en-
thusiasts h e
would set out
from his home
at Ivanhoe and
t r a m p o ff,
sleeping-bag on
back and billy
in hand. The
o pen r o a d.
f r e s h air and
good fellowship
kept him going
until just on 80.
ALEC POYN-
TON, of 8.
Ans.. Federal
Minister for
Home and
Territories.
F. R. 11or old, lately dead at Naracoorte
(S.A.) at 75, was probably the only man
in Australia who had fought both with and
against Prussia ; against as a South Saxon
in 1860, and for as a conscript in the Franco-
Prussian War of 1870. But after these-
youthful flutters he got away to a better
country, and for nearly half a century had
been a good Australian.
George Brockman, who gets the latest
knighthood in S. Aim., was a book-keeper in
tin- grocery firms of Fowler and Finlayson
till lie got in on tin- very ground floor of
Ivnlgoorlie in 1893. Now he is chairman of
the Electric Supply t'o. and the Finance
Committee of the University, among other
things, and has at various times been at the
head of the Children’s Hospital, the Repa-
triation Board, and the Anzac Hospitality
Fund. In private life he is a patron of the
arts; most Of the fine-china collection in the
Art Gallery was either bought or begged by
him.
I)r. J. J. Nevin, of Manly, has received a
billet-doux from the French Government
conveying the Croix de Guerre with Palms.
Dr. Nevin is an Irishman, and a Doctor of
Canon Law, who in 191(5 went on active
service as chaplain to a British regiment, the
Yorkshires. In 1917, at Neuve Chapelle,
he was so badly wounded in the right leg
that the surgeons had to amputate it. Re-
covering. he continued to serve his regiment
till 1919. when he. came to Australia, and is
now on the professorial staff of the training
college for priests at Manly.
When Captain Millard returns to the N.
S. Wales Assembly vice A. G. F. James-,
promoted to the Bench, he will take his place
amongst the veterans. Moruya sent him into
Parliament in 1894, Clyde in 1904, and Bega
in 1913. He is a taciturn ancient; in his
20 years of political service he probably
hasn’t spoken as many words as Berov Brook-
field is accustomed to pour forth in the com-
pass of a session.
Robert Cook, M.11.R. for Indi (Vic.), is
a farmer at Oxley and reckons that there is
more money in pigs than in politics. During
the last 12 months he has received £132
from the sale of the bacon reared by one sow.
Only his own stubbornness prevented
Bill Hedges, formerly M.11.R. for Fre-
mantle (W.A.), from succeeding Forrest as
member for Swan. He refused to join the
Country Party when the Country Party
would have liked to get him, and the Agra-
rians have walloped him at two elections.
Bill’s antipathy to Cocky is inexplicable
seeing that he is a soil-tickler himself. He
owns a 20,000-acre farm in the Bruce Rock
district, and this year he has 4500 acres
under wheat.
R. W. Dickie, who before he enlisted was
secretary of the N. S. Wales Watchmakers
and Jewellers’ Union, could have had his old
job back again if he had wanted it. but he
didn’t. Just as the present secretary. Sherar.
was getting ready to hand over, Dickie
dropped into another job—that of secretary
of the Employers’ Association. Usually this
sort of thing rouses bitterness amongst the
unionists; but Dickie has the best wishes of
his old members, who regard him still as a
stout unionist: and the bosses don’t see any
reason why being a stout unionist should pre-
vent his being the right man for their work.
The best of feeling exists between the em-
ployers and employees in this industry.
(Continued on page 18.)
TO MY ONLY WIFE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Star's” (guiding and otherwise) —’Longshore poets’
nickname for sailors’ wives.
“To ho t” —Strange cry commonly supposed to be
used by sailors.
“Sailors have wives in every port”—Libellous
statement.
Dear wife, when landsmen penned sea-lyrics nifty,
To teach us sailors all about the sea,
They dodged things technical in manner shifty,
But wives in every port they gave us free.
Though their concern for us was “fifty-fifty,”
They dubbed our women “stars” repeatedly.
Of love these briny bards would rant and slobber ;
They thought “Yo ho!” the only song we knew;
They knew not wtyat it meant to have a cobber,
A sweet-e.ved, true old cobber such as you.
They stole each other’s fire. Each ’longshore robber
Spooned out the tripe from Dibdin’s salty stew!
They reckoned we were dull of understanding,
That Culture wouldn’t touch us if she could ;
They thought us skittish colts that needed branding
Lest we should stray and lose ourselves for good.
Whilst then this purloined tripe around were handing,
Dear woman-pal, you smiled—and understood !
You ’longshore bards! I loathe each “star” or
“planet”
That you create when primed with sundry beers —
Each naughty Nance, each rorty Sue or Janet
Who trifles with poor sailors’ hopes and fears!
You’ve gone the pace since Dibdin first began it,
And trolled these lights o’ love a-down the years.
Wife-pal, we’re braved head winds and stormy
weather ;
Put still we strove to make things seem sublime.
We battled through the storm and stress together,
So now to you I pen this random rhyme.
Since mutual trust has bound us in its tether
Our love has stood the acid-test of Time!
AT SEA.
ALBATROSS.


mm
S*C;X
i i
vXvv.v
m
y
»:«:*: : : : : : l;>:;:iii:;:^:i;:;i:i:r;::: : :;:;:;:;:^;t;?::;:| , .;!;*:y:»:::*;«:;:*>:;:^:«;»:ji;:{:«:»:
&S$$SS
:*fes
j '' 111:
iiiiiiiipp;
- ' i
5^
SPH
\/ r’
liililiiiii
iPiPpilii
<$*
iiilpi^lppip
llliilill
S:S:|*|SaSip§^!s5H:S:^
fill
5919.
(HEAVY WEIGHTS)
One-Before Igo in
and
One-When I come ouf\
THERE’S no Sweeter Tobacco
comes from Virginia, and no
better brand than the <c THREE
CASTLES.”
Thackeray’s ** The Virginians ”
The FAMOUS
BRAND of
W. D. * H. O.
WILLS


Australian-made
1 - - -
Implements and Engines.
The Sunshine Harvester
H -
n
Gets all the Grain.
Durable, Light in Draught,
Best Sample.
Illustrated Catalogue Free and Post Free.
Harvesters, Headers, Grain & Fertiliser Drills, Engines, Chaffcutters, Oat-
crushers, Saw-benches, Pumping Jacks, Spring Tine Cultivators, Lucerne
Cultivators, Orchard Cultivators, Disc Cultivators, Mould-board Ploughs, Disc
Ploughs, Stump-Jump Ploughs, Harrows, Swingletrees, Chain and Pulley Yokes,
Plough Shares and Farm Engines.
H. V. McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
BRANCHES:
Comer COLLINS & SPENCER STREETS, MELBOURNE.
56 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
36 PIER STREET, PERTH.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
STANLEY STREET, SOUTH BRISBANE.
Corner YORK & ST. JOHN STREETS, LAUNCESTON.
Cabled news from Paris of the marriage
of Anatole France (76) and astronomer
Flammarion (78) is another reminder that
there are always old men’s darlings available
for old men of exceptional talent. Incidentally,
there are old women’s darlings available for
brilliant women of advanced age, but the
young husband is rarely such a success as
the young wife in M'ay-and-December matri-
mony. Flammarion entered into bonds
with the lady who has for many years col-
laborated with him in astronomical work.
This brings to mind the case of the French
lady who paired off with Dr. Hahnemann,
the father of homoeopathy. Ernest Legouve
tells the story in his “Sixty Years”: —
His wifo never left his side. She was present
at all his consultations. But the most notable fact
in connection with herself was that Hahnemann was
the third old man to whom she had linked her
existence in that way. When between flve-and-twenty
and thirty Mdlle. d’Hervilly, handsome, tall, ele-
gant, links her fate to that of a celebrated pupil
of David. Without marrying the painter, she becomes
wedded to his style of painting, and might have
signed more than one of his canvases, as later she
signed the prescriptions of Hahnemann. When
M.L. died, she turned to poetry, represented in this
instance by a poet who was 70. Fired by the com-
munion with the poet, she took to writing short
poems with the same ardor she had shown in paint-
ing historical pictures; and the poet having departed
this life in the course of time, she became tired
of septuagenarians and married Hahnemann, who
was 80. After that she became as great a revolu-
tionary in medical science as she had been a classi-
cist in literature and painting.
“To Po”: Billy tells the yarn himself;
so of course it is true. Having no War Pre-
cautions Act on hand at the time he bought
for a few pounds a complete locksmith’s kit,
and opened business in a far-back N. S.
Wales town. One day the butcher, the
only tradesman owning a first-class safe,
bolted in, saying, “Come at once! I’ve
lost the key of my safe I” Within five
minutes Billy stood prayerfully before the
latest in burglar-proofs. Standing on a
floor strewn with sawdust, he did some
rapid thinking. “Clear the shop.” he
announced, “this is a long, critical job, and
I must be alone.” When all were gone he
dropped on his knees and
started to sieve that dust.
After an hour the key
was found, and William,
with a lump of wax in
his hand, flung open the
door and announced, “I
have taken several im-
pressions and scores of
measurements. It is a
complicated case, but I
think I can fix it. Come
to my shop in two
hours.” At the apnointed
time the locksmith, fol-
lowed by half the town,
marched to the safe and
majestically handed the
worried butcher a key.
which had been well
sand- papered,. The
butcher applied the key ;
the door flew open; the
crowd cheered: and Wil-
liam Morris Hughes was
on the way to politics.
T. TREMBLE.
Secretary for Defence.
“B.” : Kingsley Fairbridge, whom a Bul-
letin reviewer places at the head of the
Afrikander versifiers figuring in “Gold Dust
from South African Poetry,” is an Afri-
kander versifier no longer. Since 1912 he
has lived in Westralia; in fact, he is the
bright voung man who founded, and con-
ducts, the Fairbridge Farm School, at Pin-
jarra. He has written little verse in the
West, and never thought it worth mention-
ing to his friends that in Rhodesia, where
be comes from, he was regarded as a repre-
sentative S’African poet, although he once
confided to the present writer that he was
putting the finishing touches on a novel
with a Rhodesian setting. I suspect that
nowadays he is more interested in politics
than in poetry; he has associated himself
with the Cocky party, and narrowly escaped
being elected for the Murray seat in place
of Works Minister George. For some un-
known reason Fairbridge excited the hos-
tility of a few parish-minded politicians,
who never missed an opportunity of snarl-
ing and yapping at the man. Then one
night, at a big charity entertainment, the
tall Afrikander climbed into the ring and
boxed four hard rounds with the champion
heavyweight of the West, betraying in the
process an accomplished right and an
insomnia-curing left. Some of his politi-
cal enemies were present, and tlje others
read about it next morning. The attacks
incontinently ceased.
When Frank Tate, Vic. Director of
Education, visited Britain, he attended a
conference of grave and reverend dominies,
with the fully-robed Chancellor of Cambridge
University in the chair. Premier Tommy
Bent was present and roared a piece, refer-
ring to tire Chancellor as “the gen’leman
from Cambridge.” “A gen’leman from Ox-
ford or Cambridge,” said Tom, “spoke of a
chap called Huxley, and a ladder with its
foot in the gutter and its top in the uni-
versity. Let Huxley come to Victoria and
we’ll not only show him that, but also chaps
down in the gutter grabbing the kiddies by
the seat of their pants, planking them on
that ladder, and boosting them up it. Why,
there’s Tate! Get up, and tell ’em what
we do, my boy! You’ll surprise ’em.”
Now Tate had protested to the Ministry,
not long before, that Victoria was, educa-
tionally, one of the most backward communi-
ties in the wide world ; but he rose and made
a speech that greatly pleased “the gen’leman
from Cambridge” and earned the cordial
approval of Bent. “Good on yer, Tate,”
observed Thomas, “you’ve taught ’em a
thing or two.” Tommy afterwards chummed
in with the Cambridge men, and at the
evening spread sang them, by special request,
24 verses of “The Wild Colonial Boy.”
Wallace Nelson, who edits the Australian
Manufacturer, once ran a Sunday paper
in a mining township where the bhoys were
numerous, and in an expansive moment he
was persuaded to become president of their
United Irish League. It was an incon-
gruous appointment, for Wallace had a hag-
gis accent and a charming ignorance of
Irish politics, and it ended abruptly. One
Saturday night the printers were late and
Wallace was in a hurry to get away to a
lecture, having been billed to address the
bhoys on “The Campaigns of Cohoolan.”
Another column was needed, and, picking
up a copy of a city .sheet with which he
was accustomed to exchange pars, and
articles, Wallace read the opening lines of a
screed which seemed harmless enough and
scissored it out, headlines and all. “This
wull dae,” he said. “Set it oop, and read
it and send the paper awa. Ah’m late
awready.” Then he sped away to the lec-
ture on Cohoolan, and roused the bhoys to
enthusiasm by pronouncing that warrior a
greater general than the over-rated Saxon
BUCKLEY.
Surry Hills’
choice in
N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly.
Marlborough, and exposing the inferiority of
Bonaparte to Sarsfield and Brian Boru.
With the cheers of the delighted pathriots
ringing in his ears the orator went home.
But at Mother Church next day he was
passionately stigmatised as a traitor to
Erin and a blot on the United Irish League.
It wasn’t his fault, but the reprinted article
that began so innocuously had developed
into a ferocious attack on the R.C. bishop
for recommending the use of a certain brand
of grape-juice as sacramental wine. The
writer of the lampoon, a bilious Plymouth
Brother, darkly insinuated that the prelate
was commercially interested in the particu-
lar variety of nosepaint whose use he en-
joined. The League had a new president
on Monday.
Increasing departmental salaries has
become a pleasant prelude to Australian
elections, and under the recent Act some of
the tall poppies in the Victorian service will
receive substantial rises. Morrison, Public
Service Commissioner; Minogue, Under-
Treasurer; Tate, Education Director; and
Mclver, Director of Billjim Settlement, go
up from £lOOO to £1250; Collins, Parlia-
mentary draftsman, from £llOO to £1250;
Ivermode, Chief Engineer of Works, from
£750 to £1000; Brittingham, Chief Archi-
tect, from £750 to £000; Weldon, Taxation
Commissioner, C. S. McPherson, Chief
Clerk of Chief Sec.’s Department, Meek,
Chief Clerk of Treasury, from £720 to £9OO
each; Peverill, Under-Sec. of Lands, from
£BOO to £900; Clowser, Chief Clerk of Pub-
lic Works, from £576 to £750; and White-
head, Secretary of Labor Bureau, from £576
to £636. The luckiest of the bunch is
Meek. He fares well under every reclassi-
fication scheme.
OLD MAID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old Maid, when you were passing fair,
With youth’s red roses on your lips,
And golden sunbeams in your hair,
And tripping feet and swaying hips,
£ wonder what you would have done
Could you have seen yourself to-day,
When, fast forsaken by the sun,
The world turns grey.
There must have been some charm in -you
When you were twenty-three or so;
There must have been some man you knew
Who made your eager senses glow;
There must have been some moment that
Was spangled with the stars’ romance,
And made your heart go pit-a-pat,
Your pulses dance!
And when across the silver skies
The moon soared like a madman’s dream.
Someone looked down into your eyes
And saw the love-light in them gleam;.
Within your wrinkled heart must dwell
Some perfumed dust of old delight
When Heaven or the dark of Hell
Was in the night!
And what came then that you should sit
Hungry and grey and sad and old?
Why do your busy fingers knit?
Why are your weary eyes so cold ?
Whose was the fault —with you or him ?
For, surely, there was one long kiss —
You have not always been so grim
And dry as this!
I wonder if you did not dare,
Or if you dared too much and lost;
And if you weep or do not care,
Or if you count it worth the cost;
I wonder what you think the while
You swiftly knit and wag your head;
I wonder if your spirit’s smile
Is really dead.
Old Maid, the world may laugh to see
Your parrot and your cat and all,
But as you dream and nod at me
And snuggle down into your shawl,
I know that you are piteous sad,
And hungry, ah! and desolate—
And all because you lost the lad
Who was your mate!
VICTORIA.
DALE COLLINS.


A NATION’S TROE WEALTH.
« /
SOME LESSONS FROM AMERICA.
Extracts from, an Article by Mr. J. Ellis Barker, in “The Nineteenth Century;” July, 1918.
“Wealth is created by the exploitation of the resources of nature
by man. It follows that the increase of the wealth of a nation which
is endowed with great natural resources depends mainly upon two
factors: upon the number of the productively employed and upon
the productive efficiency of the workers
“Civilisation is based upon the use of power, and it may be
divided into three ages: the age of man-power, the age of animal-
power, and the age of engine-power. The last age commenced only
yesterday....
“The Americans have recognised that the wealth and strength
of a nation can best be increased by increasing the number of the
workers and by enlarging their productive capacity to the utmost by
providing them with the most powerful and the most perfect labor-
saving devices of every kind. Herein lies the cause of America s
rapid advance in power, population and opulence....
“The strength and wealth of a great country can best be increased
by opening it up to exploitation, by abolishing the distances which
separate men, by facilitating to the utmost human intercourse and
the exchange of human productions. The greatness and power of
the Roman Empire were based upon its wonderful system ol roads,
v which were built regardless of labor and expense. The greatness and
power of the United States are based upon their magnificent railway
systems, the mileage of which is far greater than that possessed
by the whole continent of Europe and far greater than that of the
entire British Empire....
“The predominant position occupied by the railways in the
economy of the United States may W seen from the following
extraordinary figures, which are taken from the official Census of
Wealth of the United States and which relate to the year 1912:
* Dollars.
Value of the railways and their equipment.. 16,148,532,502
Value of manufacturing machinery, tools and
implements .. • • • • • • 0,091,451,274
Value of farm implements and machinery .. 1,368,224,548
'“Of course the United States could not build and run railways
cheaply had they not possessed cheap iron and steel. They were
powerfully assisted by the highly efficient American iron and steel
industries, which developed mightily under the policy of high protection.
After the introduction of high protection iron and steel production
increased enormously, and prices fell rapidly, as will be seen from
the following figures: —
“It is obvious that the American railways have rendered invaluable
services in opening up the country and peopling it, that they are
largely responsible for the wonderful development of the natural
resources of the United States and for the marvellous expansion of
the American industries and their abounding prosperity....
“ Agriculture is the most essential of all industiies. The
United States have vastly improved the national agriculture in all its
branches.... *
“The steady improvement in cultivation effected may be gauged
from the following figures, which are taken from The Wealth and
Income of the People of the United States, published in 1915, by
Mr. W. I. King, and which are based upon the official statistics :
Average Crop per Acre.
“The rural industries of the United States have prospered
greatly, not only because they have been blessed with a good soil
and climate, because the farmers enjoy the advantages of the free-
hold system and because they employ the best labor-saving machinery ,
but also because they have been mightily helped by the excellent
American railways and the cheapness of the freights which they
charge, and because the American Government has vastly aided the
American agriculturists by its wise and energetic activity....
“The continuous and rapid progress of America's agriculture may
he gauged from the following representative and most remarkable
figures:—
Production of
The produce of many other crops has increased at a similarly
rapid rate.
“Exactly as the gigantic expansion of the American railways
would have "been impossible without the wonderful development of
the American iron and steel industries, the mighty progress of
agriculture, indicated by these figures, would have been impossible
without the extraordinary development of the American manufacturing
industries in general, and therefore of the towns, and of the American
agricultural-implement industry. Reapers, self-binders and other
labor-saving machines, many of which were invented by Americans,
have revolutionised agriculture throughout the world and have made
possible the agricultural conquest of the American West. The produc-
tion of agricultural implements in the United States has increased
as follows: —
Agricultural Implement Production.
industry in the wjrld. Its output has increased twenty-five-fold
since 1850, and four-fifths of the machines produced are retained in
the United States. In 1850 the value of the agricultural machines
and implements possessed by the American farmers came to $151,587,638.
In 1910 their value amounted to $1,265,149,783, having increased eight-
fold. Without that mighty increase in labor-saving machinery, the
vast augmentation of the American crops would, of course, have been
impossible....
“The facts and figures given in these pages show that the United
States owe their wonderful progress in population, wealth and power
not to their natural resources —which, though magnificent, are
probably inferior to those owned by the British Empire —but to the
wise and energetic development of their resources by the American
Government and people....
“They have wisely pursued a great and truly national policy and
have developed national production as a whole and in all its branches.
Thus the United States have become the largest producers among the
nations of the world of many valuable minerals, such as coal, iron-ore,
copper, silver, zinc, lead, sulphur, petroleum, and the largest producers
of various forest productions, especially of timber. They have become
foremost among the nations of the world in many agricultural produc-
tions such as wheat, maize, oats, tobacco, cotton, cattle, pigs. They
have likewise become the greatest producers in the world of many
manufactured articles such as pig-iron, steel, woollen goods, silk goods,
rubber goods, leather, boots, paper, clothing, cutlery, clocks and watches,
glass, soap, furniture, motor-cars, electrical machinery, of labor-saving
machines of every kind and possibly of cotton goods, and before long
they may be the largest shipbuilders in the world as well”—.


m
mm
I
m
■
:
! *
On Dressing Well for Out=of=Doors
ECONOMY demands that you pay a good price for your clothes. Selected
fabrics and quality tailoring give you longer wear. Longer wear means
fewer clothes to buy each year—less money spent on a time-cost basis.
That is why you will save by securing your clothing needs at David Jones’. Every
suit possesses features of convenience and ease that will have special appeal to
out-of-door men—features that impart a rugged personality to your clothes and
compel you, after many months of service, to lay them aside with genuine reluc-
tance. Spring suitings just landed include Fancy Tropical Worsteds, West of
England Llama Suitings, Pure Scotch or Donegal Tweeds and Flannels. You are
invited to inspect them.
High-grade Sac Suits tailored to measure from 1 2 Guineas.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
David cJones'
for Service
Opp. G. PO SYDNEY Tel. City 6336.
Service
Tyre service is never guess work with Good-
rich, for Goodrich manufacturing skill is backed
by expert scientific knowledge.
These forces have developed together since
1869. Combined with fair dealing, they are the
foundation of Goodrich reputation.
Naturally, such an organization takes pride in
making its tyre the best appearing tyre on the
market.
Goodrich tyres are dependable.
The B. F. Goodrich
Rubber Company
Akron, Ohio, U. S. A.
G
Goodrich.
Tyres
Distributed by
DUVAL & COMPANY,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Australia.
(ffiS
E. T. 7
Flower Gathering.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Flower-getters ten me that they
have never seen the equal of this
season for plenitude and beauty of
bloom on the Sydneyside. Before the winter
was well over the waratahs appeared, enrich-
ing the green of the gullies with their rare
crimson. The first boronia also was prolific—
the dog-bush, as some genius for unlovely
names in our unlovely past named it; but
this is now dying off, and what remains of
it hides under the bracken. The pink
boronia, however, is making up for the
depletion of its delicate li'ttle sister by bloom-
ing in generous plenty wherever the native
scrub has not been wholly done to death.
Then, too, if one cares to go a little farther
afield he will find the native rose, another
blooming in profusion, no longer
shy and furtive, but, because of its numbers,
bold and conspicuous. This daintiest and
best-beloved of our flowers, has been so pur-
sued and plundered that it has retreated
into hidden places; but the boys know where
to find it—the urchins of Narrabeen and
Dee Why and Brookvale and the doseu
little towns on the .North Shore and ina-
warra lines.
All along the swamp-sides and on the
ridges and on the fiatlands, too, there is
glory of wattle. But the beautiful oiooms
which ushered in the first young days of
are dead or dying, i do not Know
Mr. Maiden’s name for it; to me it is the
golden acacia, and the Americans called
it so when they took it from us and gave
n to their country to enrich its Spring.
But though this glory no longer droops its
splendor on the green places of the coast,
later varieties make up for its absence,
-these are flowering in such great abund-
ance that the hoggish motorist plunders
without consideration for those who come
after him, breaking branch and bush, so
that they will never more blossom. No one
objects to the flower-gatherer who contents
himself with a bunch or two to brighten
his home, and even those who pick to sell
may be pardoned ; for they pick with care,
with an eye to their next year’s marketing!
But tor the people who motor to the flower-
places and plunder them of their treasures
returning at the end of the day with cars
brimming over with the spoil of the bush,
there should be neither respect nor pardon.’
Lately the country between Manly and
Newport was proclaimed a bird sanctuary,
and no man may now carry a gun
between Manly Cove and Broken Bay.
Equally for the good of our trees
and flowers something should be done
to prevent their indiscriminate slaughter.
On the banks of the Narrabeen Lagoon,
between South Creek and Middle Creek,
there are acres of gumtrees—tall, symmetri-
cal, beautiful which a lover of nature, a
man with anything of the artist in him,
would cross wide seas to delight in. The
land on which these trees are growing is
for sale, and some day, to-morrow or to-
morrow year, it will be sold. Then the
man with the axe will come and hew them
down, and turn them into log and plank.
And a wonder and a splendor, which it has
taken centuries to bring into being, and
which Nature in an inspired moment
wrought from sun and rain and soil, will
vanisn forever. Of course, the man who buys
the land, under the law as it is, buys the
trees also, and if he thinks the sites they
occupy would be better decorated by pump-
kins, he has a right to his pumpkins. But
because it is not good to destroy beautiful
things this should not be. In the best of all
possible worlds the Government would put a
mark upon certain of them, and say: “In
the interest of beauty, and because beauty
is an asset to a country, too, these must
remain untouched.”
Laws which are intended to protect, do
sometimes protect. This is said because no\r
one may see a gillbird or two in the bush
round about Manly. At times, too, one may
see a heron, and lately the strange sight
of a flock of white cockatoos. On Dee Why
Lagoon, unperturbed by prowlers among the
reeds, black swans, hundreds together at a
time, delight the eyes of whoso passes down
the red roads in tram or motor. The law
of sanctuary has done this much, and will
do more. We were idling, lying on our
oars on the Freshwater River. It was a
holiday, and the folk of the city, crowding
out to the National Park, were tramping
along the drive that runs beside the river.
They had found treasure on the hills, trea-
sure of Gymea lilies. It was treasure made
the more precious because of the diffi-
culties to. come by it. There was a
light of pride in their eyes as they
trudged onward, some heavily laden with
four and some with five great lilies
on their shoulders. “But I thought,”
said one of those who idled with me, “that
they were not allowed to touch the flowers
in the park?” The rest of us thought so
too. But on they held to their triumphal
march. As the sun was setting we turned
the boat homeward, rowing towards the dam
across which the road ran. It was bad
luck for the flower-gatherers that there was
no other way out of the park save that
afforded by this road ; for where it crossed the
dam, on a spot judiciously and strategically
selected, stood a ranger, a grim fellow with
the power of the law in his eye and the
menace of the law in his words. Already
when we reached him a number of lilies
lay beside him; and we watched the heap
grow as the toilers were hailed and laid
down their burdens. Sadder and wiser men
they rose the morrow morn.
For weeks past and for weeks to come
the boronia has bloomed and will bloom,
making glad my eyes. For a time to come,
too, the wattles and spider-flowers will lend
a radiance to the bush, and during that time
every week-end train and tram and boat,
hieing citywards at the close of day, will
carry its host of flower-gatherers; for not
the least of the delights of Spring are its
floral trams and trains and ferry-boats. But
for the peace of mind of those who go
a-gathering. let them first know what to
pick and what to pass by, and which are
the sacred places.
RODERIC QINN.


tyf/ N0SV3S
QEDB“'0G0D
gd
sg
dsg
Cm
ca
iSi
CUSTOMBILT NECESSITIES.
They are more than Accessories!
That is why the Stewart Factories are the world’s largest manu-
facturers of motor equipment to-day. Every Stewart article is a necessity
from the car-owner’s standpoint.
Stewart Custombilt Necessities have revolutionised the motor-car
industry.
The sdtewaftb Speedometer.
The Stewart Speedometer, through its
remarkable accuracy and durability, estab-
lished the Stewart 'Patented Magnetic
Principle as the principle with car manufac-
turers throughout the world.
dtewm Warning Signals.
The Stewart Warning Signals—both
hand-operated and motor-driven, are another
Stewart Necessity. They are able to with-
stand the hardest usage and give long years
of satisfactory service. Motor-car owners
have stopped experimenting with other warn-
ing signals, and now recognise the Stewart
as the most efficient warning signal of all.
The Sfewaftb Searchlight.
The Stewart Searchlight is by far the
most popular and widely-used Searchlight
on the market. Thousands of motorists have
installed two of these lights on their car
—one on each side of the wind-shield. Some
manufacturers are already including it as
Standard Equipment, and it is destined to
become universal equipment in a very short
time. Have yours put on to-day.
The j Vacuum Tank Feed System.
The Stewart Vacuum Tank Feed System
is now a standard equipment on 88 per cent,
of all cars manufactured. No other accessory
was ever given a more rapid universal
adoption by motor-car engineers. It made
possible the discarding of bothersome, uncer-
tain, unsatisfactory feed systems.
dtewaUb Autoguards
are all that the name implies.
A REAL GUARD FOR YOUR CAR .
Protects your car from the small acci-
- J
■
.
dents which insurance policies do not cover,
and saves you annoying, troublesome and sometimes expensive accidents
which you are liable to meet with at any time.
See that your Car is %3t£WWib Equipped.
Stewart Motor Necessities are for sale by retail and wholesale motor-accessory houses throughout
Australia, or direct from the Inter-State distributors:—
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street, SYDNEY; Berry & Roche Pty., Ltd., Swanston Street,
MELBOURNE; Martin Wilson Bros., Ltd., Adelaide Street, BRISBANE; Arthur Christian,
Hay Street, PERTH; Cornell, Ltd.* Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.


LL
sss
&
ds
ORIGINAL
BALATA
BRITISH
BELTING
In Refrigerating Plants, where the majority of drives
are abnormal, where damp conditions are always
prevalent, and where the conditions of operation are
severe—there you will invariably find Dick’s Original
Balata Belting silently transmitting the maximum of
power.
The above illustration (drawn from a photo) shows a 6-ply
DICK’S BALATA BELT driving from a 50-h.p. Electric Motor
on to-one of the Compressors in the plant of Messrs. T.
Playfair & Co.—a firm ranking foremost among Sydney’s
leading Shipping Providores.
Length of Service, General Efficiency, Continuous Operation
and Power-saving were the determining factors in the decision
of Messrs. T. Playfair & Co. to use Dick’s Balata Belting on
the above drive. Experience has proven that DICK’S is the
ideal belt for use on all such drives, where high speed and
continuity are the two main essentials.
On request a practical man carefully trained in belting problems
will call on you. WRITE FOR FREE- COrY OF THE
BALATA BELTING BOOK.
JAMES HARDIES COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY,
Cnr. York &
Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE
581-3 Little
Collins Street.
ADELAIDE,
30 Currie Street.
QUEENSLAND: The Queensland Machinery Co
Albert Street, BRISBANE.
AUSTER
Firm and Utility or
; . . , ■ , -I . • j
Marine Type Engine.
X/
m
I
I
Here are some of the reasons
why the AUSTER is the
best engine for your class of
work:—
The Auster is supplied care-
fully packed with everything
necessary for running—no
extras to buy.
The Engine starts on petrol.
After running for a few
minutes to heat the hot-spot
in the manifold, it can be
switched on to kerosene
without further alteration.
The entire lubricating system
is internal and automatic,
and entirely prevents all oil
leaks.
The Engine will develop the power specified, and do just as much
work as any heavy-duty engine of the same horse-power.
The carburetter has only one moving part—the air-shutter, which
regulates the supply of air. It cannot get out of order.
The Engine has a removable head, to facilitate cleaning. The
Engine is governed by the latest type of equilibrium valve. All
valves are protected by covers.
The magneto may be detached without fear of losing the correct
timing of the Engine.
Full particulars on application.
WGWATSON &C°L TD
279 Clarence St Sydney
Electrical Suppliers and Engineers.
State Accident Insurance Office of
Victoria :
June, Revenue. Outgoings. To Reserves. Reserves.
1915.. £27,546 £7,837 £19,709 £19,709
1916.. 25,951 17,791 8,160 27,869
1917.. 26,922 19,393 7,529 35,398
Bonus distributed .. £7,506 27,892
1918.. 28,200 19,498 8,702 36,594
1919.. 29,649 22,597 7.052 43,646
1920.. 33,754 26,775 6,979 50,625
Bonus distributed ..£lO,OBO 40,545
The Vie. Government, having made work-
men’s compensation insurance obligatory on
employers, established this office to handle
the business at cost price. But, as the table
shows, its figures have not grown rapidly:
gross revenue for the past year was only
£6208 more than that for the first eight
months, and, since £l2Bl of the increase
represented additional interest earnings, on
paper the enterprise would appear to have
made no progress at all. But there has been
considerable rate-cutting since the earlier
policies were written. Insurance-Com-
missioner Holmes first set about putting the
office on as secure a basis as possible by
piling up reserves. Later he commenced re-
ducing rates in keeping with the claims ex-
perience; and when the last all-round re-
ductions were made in 1918 he forecasted
that bedrock had been reached. This antici-
pation has proved correct, for the loss rate
has since increased each year and the margin
of surplus, before providing for unexpired
risks, has fallen off. The underwriting ex-
perience over the past four years has been
as follows: —
Net Premiums. Claims. Expenses.
■1917 .. £26,249 £13,976 £5417
1918 .. 27,426 14,251 5247
1919 . . 28,650 17,567 5030
■ 1920 .. 32,473 21,411 5364
The claims ratio moved from 52 p.c. for
1918 to (31 p.c. for 1919, and to almost (3(3
p.c. for the past year. But notwithstanding
the smaller individual premiums collected on
a larger number of policies, owing to the ease
with which renewals have been written and
a wider understanding of the Act the ex-
pense rate continues to fall: during the past
year only £l6 10s. of every £lOO of net pre-
miums went in exes., compared with 19 p.c.
iff 1918 and 17 p.c. in 1919. The Vic. Chamber
of Manufactures Insurance Co. can show
better figures than those ; but the State Office
is writing and managing business at about
one-half of the cost incurred by many pro-
prietaries. Since in addition to the reduced
rates policy-holders also participate in any
profits, they benefit by the smaller cost at
which the State Office handles their business.
In 1917 the Commissioner, after weighing-
up his risks and funds, decided to distribute
£7505 as a cash bonus ; now another triennial
investigation has just been completed and
the Commissioner has decided that he can
pass out a further £lO,OBl with safety This
represents nearly 11.4 p.c. of the past three
years’ net premiums.
’After allowing for the latest bonus dis-
tribution, the Commissioner at June 30
showed reserves of £40,545, equal to nearly
125 p.c. of the past year’s net premiums.
This puts the office on a sound basis for the
class of risks it is carrying. One disadvan-
tage the Commissioner is confronted with :s
the _ investment of funds: at the balance
£24,360 was lying at the Treasury and there
was a reserve fund of £23.000. but whether
that was also at the Treasury is not stated.
However, gross interest earnings for the year
were only £I2SI, equal to less than 3f p.c.
on total funds available for investment, a
ridiculously low return for an office com-
peting with Private Enterprise rate-cutters.
* * * •
The Millaquin Sugar Co. (Brisbane)
June, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1912. .'£55,892 6 p.c. = £30,000 £25,892 £25,892
1913.. 30,394 5 „ „ 25,000 5,394 31 286
1914.. 72,441 8 ~ „ 40,000 32,441 63.727
1915.. 47,401 S ~ „ 40,000 7,401 71,128
1916.. 45,844 8 „ „ 40,000 5,844 76,972
1917.. 31,746 6 „ „ 30,000 1,746 78,718
1918.. 65,476 10 „ „ 56,000 15,476 94,194
1919.. 61,976 S „ „ 40,000 21,976 116,170
1920.. 53,564 8 „ „ 40,000 13,564 129,734
That last line does not indicate that Milla-
quin had a bad year, yet it was the worst
the co. has experienced. The net profit made
from cane-raising and milling was only
£16,635, the balance of £36,929 representing
a windfall in the shape of a bonus dividend
from the Bundaberg Distilling Co., in which
Millaquin has an interest. The Bundaberg
and Maryborough districts last year had a
severe drought, and only one of this- co.’s
three mills was at work, and it crushed all
available cane in 11 weeks. Though good
rains have fallen since January, the current
year’s production will also be small; but
there is promise of a good season for 1921-
22. It is an erratic industry, as this tally of
the Commonwealth’s production of raw sugar
shows: —
1912- 129,877 tons
1913- 265,029 ~
1914- 245,876 „
1915- 159,640 „
1916- 193.037 tons
1917- . . 327,589 „
1918- 202,112 ~
1919- 166.000 „
Under such conditions the. only satisfactory
way of measuring up a sugar co.’s progress'
is by averaging results over al number of
years.
This comparison of the Millaquin’s bal-
ance-sheet figures shows what has happened
over two four-year periods:—
1912. 1916. 1919. 1920.
Liabilities ... £111,660 £93,341 £56,271 £64,340
Fixed assets .. 493,198 469,287 469,792 481,965
Stocks . . . . 123,255 123,315 116,645 57,122
Book debts . . 38,600 57,837 58,268 37,426
Cash & investments 39,873 47,735 "137,571
The Millaquin was one of the old boom-dere-
licts which came ashore on the' Q.N. Bank’s
doorstep, and the Q.N. nursed the concern
until it became strong enough to battle on its
own account. The present co., in which the
personnel of the bank still figures promi-
nently, took over 10 years ago. Since the
first accounts were issued the surplus of more
or less liquid assets over liabilities has ex-
panded from £50,195 to £167,779, the
book value of fixed assets having meantime
shrunk £11,243. That shows an improve-
ment of £106,841, but how closely that
approximates to the actual improvement de-
pends on several things. No evidence is ten-
dered on the important matter of the allow-
ances made for depreciation, etc. But since
this is a concern managed by hard-headed
bankers who had bitter experience of over-
valued assets, it can be taken almost for
granted that besides the £60,000 stored-up in
a reserve for depreciation and renewals,
ordinary wear and tear, etc., and probably
something else besides, have been provided
for. Hard writing down is a habit among
sugar-millers: the g.-m. of the Central Sugar
Mills told the Interstate Commission last
year that, though statistics gave the capital
value of mills as £3,100,000, his estimate was
about 44 millions. Under the circumstances,
the £60,000 in the specific reserve in Milla-
(pun s accoupts has been treated in both the
introductory table and in the record of pro-
gress disclosed by the balance-sheet figures
as genuine stored-up profit. The recent bonus
div. of £36,929 from the Bundaberg Distill-
ing Co. is another important factor influ-
encing the improvement set out above. That
bonus may have been paid, not in cash, but
in sharesthe fact that all but. an exact
£2OOO of it was taeked to the investments
account hints as much. In any case, the
bonus probably represents profits which have
been accumulated over a number of years,
and the amount should not be credited to
Millaquin’s past year’s profits. During the
eight years in which the balance-sheets have
shown an improvement of £106,341, share-
holders have had £302,500 in divs., equal to
slightly over 74 p.c. p.a. There is nothing
fat about that return, particularly when the
nature of the industry is considered; but if
shareholders have received only a moderate
return on their investment, they at least have
the satisfaction of knowing that the manage-
ment has meantime done much in the way of
providing greater security for their money.
* * * #
The XJnion Building Society (Mel-
bourne) : '
Net Added to Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1908 ~ £2264 6p.c,= £1654 £.610 £3,269
1909 .. 2410 7 „ „ 2068 342 3 611
1910 . . 2848 7 „ „ 2251 597 4 208
1911 .... ?5629 7 „ „ 2517 1112 5,320
1912 .. 4317 74 „ „ 2975 1342 6,662
1913 . . ,4714 74 „ „ 3180 1584 8,246
1914 . . 4686 74 „ „ 3323 1363 9,609
1910 . . 5037 74 „ „ 3480 1557 11.166
1916 . . 6235 8 „ ~ 3821 1414 12,580
1917 .. , ,5228 8,„ ~ 3936 1292 13,872
1918 .'.'i 5435 8' „ „ 3976 1459 15,331
1919 . . 5346 8,, ~ 3994 1352 16,683
1920 . . 5782 8„ „ 3997 1785 18,468
f rom a- business-getting point, of view the
building societies in the congested cities have
had an easy time lately. This Melbourne
concern reports that “loans exceeded the
funds available,” so it put out 1000 £2O
prefs.—“go-as-you-please” shares, the man-
agement dubs the unique issue. Subscribers
are permitted to pay up by instalments of
£1 or more, receiving 5 p.c. p.a. interest until
the full £2O is subscribed, when 6 p.c. is paid
and the holding is split up into 20 shares of
£1 each. These shares are preferential as
to div. and as to capital, and are transfer-
able. In a ’’note most special” the manage-
ment has a lot to say about the suitability
of these “gilt-edged” pref. shares for the
“cautious and prudent investor.” But the
prospectus announcing the issue is silent as
to (1) whether the shares are. transferable
before they are fully paid and (2) who is to
value the shares. Actually the management
is .seeking cheap capital from the small man,
and if he is not in a position to leave his
cash in the society for some years he will
probably discover that the savings bank
would have suited him better, for w T ho is
going to offer him £2O for his fully-paid 0
p.c. preference share when the same amount
of 0 p.c. War Loan is worth only 18 guineas
on the market ? At July 2S £6399 had been
put into this pref. issue. Though the
management says that it can find “ample
use” for any new funds, it is keeping a
cautious eye on its investments. "Real
estate continues difficult to value,” the direc-
tors say, “as building Costs are extremely
high, and houses for homes are in great
demand at erratic prices. We have there-
fore required our valuations to be made on a
fair average basis, and that our loans should
have larger margins.” Also, in keeping with
the times, the society is asking higher in-
terest : on the average of mortgages for 1914-
15 interest earnings gave a return of 7.9 p.c.;
for the past year the return was 8.1 p.c.
This shows how the principal balance-
sheet figures have moved over 10 years:—
Assets.
Deposits, Loans, , N
July, Overdrafts, etc. Mortgages. Liquid Assets.
1911 .. £46,239 £93,168 £2l
1912 .. 63,490 115,148 36
1913 .. 54,565 110,290 10
1914 .. 65,735 126,544 10
1915 .. 62,731 127,568 10
1916 .. 56,228 124,250 10
1917. .. 50,554 120,816 920
1918 .. 52,113 124,324 1610
1919 .. 61,913 137,157 10
1920 .. 58,142 139,439 1454
The Union Building Society now has a
larger loan business than at any other time
in its career. Though £24,291 more is out
on mortgage than in 1912, liabilities arC
£5348 smaller; new permanent capital and
terminating shares have assisted with
£18,246, accumulated profit accounting for
the balance of the improvement. The latest
accounts show £140,993 of assets, all liabili-
ties totalling £58,143. So for evefy £ qf
outside money in the business there are assets
with a book value of £2 Bs. 4d., and credi-
tors are thus well protected. Shareholders
are doing well, the latest net profits repre-
senting a return of over 11-J p.c. on their
capital; and since only 8 p.c. divs. are paid
there is a substantial margin of profit avail-
able for strengthening the security for their
money and to help future dividends.
“D.S.”: Let me warn. any opal-gouger
against trying his luck on the Stuart's
Range (S.A.) field unless he has a full
knowledge of what he is plunging into. Only
one in 20 of the gougers who have so far
tried the big straggling field has struck pay-
able opal; possibly another one in 20 makes
wages. Most diggers have left after twq
or three months, dropping from £5O to £lOO
of their good cash and losing two or three
months’ wages. The opal market is most
uncertain, and even those with big parcels
are indignant at the very low figures offered
for their gems.


t-% s
A"
w*.
y
□
HI
KB
mk:
%
is
M
«u^
w
m
From Bunbury Returned Soldiers’ Industries,
Returned Soldiers’ Factory, Bunbury, W.A.
Elder, Smith and Co., Dimited,
Perth, W.A.
Dear Sirs, —
During the past two years, we, The Bun-
bury Returned Soldiers’ Industries, have used
your Goodyear Belting at, the Bunbury Axe-
handle Factory, and find it excellent for all
machinery connected with our business.
yours faithfully,
(Signed) A. E. MURRAY,
Secretary.
The first Goodyear Belt sells all the rest
THE Axe-handle Factory of the Bunbury Returned Soldiers’ Industries
at Bunbury, Western Australia, had experimented with a number
of different belts. They had used Balata Leather, and a brand of
rubber belts, but had not obtained good service.
This is not remarkable when it is explained that the conditions under which
most of the machines in this plant operate are exceptionally severe. High
speeds and small pulleys are factors in the conditions of service, which in
many cases provide a gruelling test.
Finally, a Goodyear Glide Belt was installed on one of the severest of the
drives—from the Counter Shaft to a Copying Lathe—by way of testing
this brand of belting.
The Copying Lathe is used for turning down axe-handles, and the 3-inch
by 4-ply Glide Belt runs at about 5000 feet per minute. The counter shaft
pulley is 20 inches in diameter, driving on to a 5-inch pulley on the lathe.
Owing to the small diameter of the driven pulley, the arc of contact
is reduced. Yet the Goodyear special friction surface meets this hard
condition without slippage or loss of power.
This belt has already returned more than five times the service that
was secured from Balata Leather or other rubber belts.
One of the great service features of the Goodyear Glide Belt is its pliability,
which, even on so small a diameter pulley—-at such a speed, is neverthe-
less proof against separation of the plies—the common experience with
many belts.
So satisfactory has been the service that the factory is installing Goodyears
throughout. The above letter expresses the appreciation of the management.
You have the right at any time to call for
the advice of the Goodyear Technical Man,
who will demonstrate how to adapt your
belts to the actual conditions of work.
His specialised knowledge and continuous
experience of results will assist you to
secure not only the maximum service in
belts and consequent economies of factory
operation, but will insure the effective
transmission of power, with its accompani-
ment of maximum output of machines or
plant.
Our Specification of Goodyear Belting
carries with it the acceptance of responsi-
bility for its satisfactory service and wear.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED
ADELAIDE, MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, BRISBANE, PERTH.
msm
ss
.
IB) •
GOOD.
mam


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident $ Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE —
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS' FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
°!gS
Hotel
TA
15/- per Day
Bed
Breakfast
Ke
5 wanston
Melbourne i
rpopi»iel-o
King Geo
6fc
THE TOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
I
WHISKY
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
BREAKING THE DROUGHT.
McPHERSON (tendering rain-gauge with
whisky): “I dinna ken whether you’ll
find that suffeecient, but I generally
tak ’ ten points mesel!”
“Quandary”: That romance of “Silas’s”
(B. 16/9/’2O) reminds me of an experience Bill had
on the construction of the Goulburn (Vic.) level
banks. Bill, who was one of a gang clearing a track
for the embankment, was carrying out an offensive
on a green redgum about 2ft. in diameter, and had
got nearly half-way through when the blade of his
axe collapsed suddenly. Bill passed, some hasty
reflections on the citizens of the U.S. and accused
them of manufacturing glass axes as well as wooden
hams. Having requisitioned another he returned to
the attack, but had hardly got going when axe No.
2 went the same way as No. 1. Bill reckoned there
was something unusual about that tree and started
to investigate. He found that the vegetable in its
giddy youth had acquired the corset habit, using a
discarded mall-ring for the purpose. In' the course
of time it had outgrown or rather overgrown such
foolish notions, with the result that the ring became
imbedded in the wood, and treacherously lay in wait
to take a fall out of poor old Bill.
* * * *
“Renmark Raisin” : I could send “Rusty”
a branch from an interesting redgum that grows in a
vineyard at Renmark. Planted as an ordinary trellis
post 18 years ago, it is now a stately tree 50ft. high.
But it is the only successful effort I know of among
half a million posts of the same breed.
“F.H.R.”: Want a lantern? Take a lib.
baking-powder tin, cut out the end and a piece of
the side. Cut the bottom off a tomato-sauce bottle
(do it neatly) ; also cut the top off, leaving the
glass cylinder just as long as the tin. Glue your
piece of candle on to the lid with its own fat, light
it, and put the lid on the tin from the bottom. All
you have to do then is slip the bottle inside the
tin over the candle, and make a couple of holes
in the sides of the tin for your wire handle. A
splendid light, reflector and all, is the result; and it
defies wind. Of course your lid must fit fairly tight;
but did anyone ever get a baking-powder tin with
a loose lid?
“T.H.M.”: Tasmania has an open season
of three months for ’possum, kangaroo and wallaby
destruction. How do these figures go for a record
catch by one man ? George Conley, a returned soldier,
skinned, working alone, 830 ’possums and 670 kanga-
roos and wallabies, and with three others divided up
a catch of 500 ’possums. Conley’s tally for the
three months was, therefore, 955 ’possums and 670
kangaroos and wallabies.
* * * *
“Mogo”: The stone axes of the Australian
aboriginal, when their edges are produced by grind-
ing, are generally made from igneous rocks contain-
ing a considerable proportion of hornblende, and
consequently are very tough, though not very hard.
These rocks are mainly diabase or diorite. The most
famous Victorian quarries occur on the northern
slopes of Mount William, between Lancefield and
Kilmore; but there are others at Moyston, AVick-
liffe, Batesford, Ivatandra, Dookie and the Howqua
River. Can any other observer add to the list?
.** * *
“Te Pana”: Apropos trees that have
started from stakes driven into the earth. At a
Hokianga (M.L.) pa a long avenue of karaka-trees is
prominent from the fact that, instead of being
upright, the trunks are growing criss-cross in two
perfect rows, the space between each tree being
equal. According to Ilori, the avenue dates back to
the advent of one of the first Maori canofes which
landed brown immigrants on the beach. The dug-
out had been smacked about during the passage,
and it was found necessary to haul the hooker ashore
for repairs. She was dragged up high and dry,
and boughs of trees were used as shores to prop her
up. The job completed, the canoe was returned to
the sea and the temporary supports were left stick-
ing in the soil. According to Ilori, they “struck,”
and he has carefully tended them, down through the
generations. Of course, it may be a lie. But,
again, it may not.
**'■**
“Sepoma”: If Conan Doyle has the time
to spare, I recommend that he prospect New Guinea
for spooks and shades of the departed. There is not
a village anywhere along the north-western coast in
what used to be German New Guinea in which the
“tamarang,” or devil, does not have an active exist-
ence. Although ghosts play such a large part in
the native’s life, he has no conception of anything
in the nature of a good spirit. All the shades with
which he is familiar are bad ones, ready to do him
mischief. In at least two widespread practices—one
made use of for the bringing about of trouble to an
enemy and the other for warding off devils —exactly
the same methods are used as were in vogue for the
same purposes in 15th-century England. The
former consists of modelling the enemy in clay
and then inserting a splinter of wood in some vital
spot, after which Nature takes its course and our
friend the enemy curls up and dies. The other is
the use of hot coal fires to keep the devils away.
Every village has a small smouldering fire alongside
the main track leading to it, for it is that track
which the tamarang always takes, and, as every-
body knows, no tamarang can pass a fire, no matter
how small. Besides, the study of these matters
would seem to be of some value to ethnologists in
their investigation of the origin and migrations of
the human race.
* * * *
“Jonah”: Re pawpaws. Let them all
grow until they get to that age when the sex can
be easily distinguished. Then take a knife and be-
head the males just above where the first leaves
branch out from the butt. After a good healthy
growth sets in again, repeat the performance. The
third growth will bear bigger and better fruit than
the females, and it will be seedless into the bargain.
By the way, what is the record from seed to fruit?
At Ocean Island during the Coronation sports of
George Rex, Government-Resident Dickson distri-
buted seed from the Ellice Group, offering a prize
to the first to produce fruit. The winner landed
the bacon with 81b. of fruit on the 97th day. I
ran a bad third at 116 days. All plants started life
in a “bullumacow” tin and finished in the open,
watered with distilled water from birth.
* * * *
“Juvenisenex”: Can’t beat “Rover’s”
45-year-old horse (B. 16/9/’2O), but I can mention
a 29-year-old mare which, put in a paddock with a
youthful stallion of 33, duly foaled. Also another
mare (37 this one) which adopted a motherless foal
and fed it till full-grown.
* * * *
“Tat-carpenter”: A few years ago two
ponies were taken from Townsville to Magnetic
Island. In their efforts to get back to the main-
land they swam in hobbles from one bay to another
round a rocky headland, the best part of a mile.
I happened to be on the beach at the time to receive
them with an address of welcome. Yes, and I had
to lead them back over the rocky and scrubby hill.
They repeated the swimmipg performance several
times with and without hobbles, and some time later
set out for the mainland. One gave it up and
returned; the other was posted missing.
“Billy T.”: Tommy the Hawker, who ran
a large, covered, two-horse waggon up and down
where new railway lines or other big country works
were in course of construction, had always a dog
of sorts under the vehicle as a night guardian.
Unfortunately Boxer, the ill-bred retriever he owned
when I was with him, had a barbarous appetite for
raw mutton, and if he got into a paddock of ewes
would make a mess of a few of the jumbucks before
he could be hauled off. This was a serious matter,
BACKED THE WRONG ’UN.
SOLICTOUS PERSON: “What’s the matter, my dear friend? Has anyone been so cruel as
to knock you down?”
BOOZY BUSIE: “No (hic) Hanky fear. Hogan’s booze made me see two (hic) crim-
son verandah-posts ’stead er one, an' I leaned up ag'in (hic) wrong 'un.”
as country J’s.P. were prone to make it particu-
larly sultry for the owner of sheep-killing canires.
One day when we were travelling up the new line
eating its way through the bush to St. Arnaud, Boxer
got loose, and proceeded to make himself busy with
the lambing ewes in an adjacent paddock. Tommy,
running to the rescue, came upon two boundary
riders galloping down from another point of the
compass. Then he made the only bid that occurred
to him on the impulse of the moment. “For God’s
sake, hurry,” yelled the hawker. “Here are your
d —d sheep slaughtering my dog!”
“Melos”: During a row at a navvy-pub
one night someone struck the host with a bottle.
Bung, whose fighting weight was under nine stone,
assumed his most unkindly expression and came out
requesting the name and address of the person who
assaulted him. “I ’it yer,” said six-feet of tough-
ness, stepping forward menacingly. “I ’it yer. AVot
erbout it?” “Nothin’!” replied Bung, “’cept I
wanted to tell yer yeh can hit damn hard.”
* * * *
“Beer Pip”: Tell “Winkers” (B.
23/9/’2O) to wash greasy-heeled Dobbin’s leg with
carbolic soap and hot water to which has been
added a little soda. Then thoroughly dry the
affected part and apply twice daily a lotion made
of half an ounce of sulphate of zinc and one pint
.cf wdter. Be sure the lotion goes right, into the
grease —it is apt to run off if not applied carefully.
Sulphate of copper is nearly as good as sulphate of
zinc.
A NARROW ESCAPE.
THE TOILER: “Bonzer day outside —makes a
Hoke feel like a good day’s work!”
HIS LONG-SUFFERING WIFE : “Thank Gord
for that!”
THE TOILER: “Yus, wot a pity it’s Sunday!”
“Dido”: The question is an ethical one —
was Tim Rinder justified in beating his father as he
did? Tim went limping home that afternoon, in
great pain and a vicious temper, to find his old
man giggling over the way in which he had done
Post in the eye. Stephen Post owns the great
orchard at the back of Rinder’s land, and being
suspicious that his fruit was being utilised to make
his neighbor’s jam, he put down a number of man
traps. Rinder senior, who has a wooden leg, ex-
(Continued on page 26J
plained how he had been taken in one of these traps,
but it bit on his wooden limb, and by unstrapping
the member, and using it as a lever, he had prised the
self-locking trap open, and made his escape. “I
set the trap nice and careful agin,” old Dad Rinder
explained, “so’s Post ’d suspect nothin’. It was ’neat’i
the pear-tree in the north corner.” Then Rinder
junior arose in defiance of his lacerated shin, and
smote his father hip and thigh. “You d—d old
fool!” he wailed. “That is the trap I was caught
in.”
* * * *
“Ko Iko” : When running a trading cutter
down the Lau Archipelago, in the Fiji group, we
anchored one night in a sheltered spot in the Coral
Reef. In the morning on trying to raise the anchor
we found that it had caught in the coral, and no
efforts of the native crew could raise it. After
consideration we decided to blow it free with dyna-
mite. AVe made a loose-fitting ring Of wire round
the chain, attached thereto a plug of dynamite with
detonator and fuse and sufficient scrap-iron to ensure
the lot sinking, hauled on the chain until it was
almost perpendicular, lit the fuse and let her go,
at the same time paying out the chain so that the
cutter was not above the chai'ge when it exploded.
The result was all we expected. Later I heard that
the native skipper I had at the time had tried the
same means of releasing his anchor when in a native-
owned boat. But he neglected the scrap-iron, with
the result that the dynamite exploded just under the
nose of the cnaft, which promptly sank. None of
the crew were hurt, but they all thought they were
killed.
* * * *
“Ragar” : Up along the northern portion
of the Great Barrier Reef, jimong the beds of multi-
colored coral you come across the rare black species
once in a blue moon. AVhite, cream, red, purple,
blue-green, deep blue and pale blue, lilac, mauve and
violet, pink and scarlet —all these are fairly com-
mon ; but the black is very rare. One of the diving
boys while down after trochus-shell recently brought
up a large* spray of it for me. It weighed all of
121 b. Most of the corals lose their color after
being taken out of the water and become dead white.
The black retained its midnight hue, in spite of the
fact that it was only surface color. Has it any com-
mercial value ?
“Observer”: The migrations of turtles are
astounding. They have either a strong sense of
smell or a well-stored memory. On Weribone sta-
tion (Q.) the Younghusband Creek was going dry
for the first time in man’s memory. One morning
a boundary-rider rode in, hair on end, and said
that the new netting fence some four miles from
the creek was covered with millions of dying and
dead turtles. The fact was that thousands, scenting
danger if they remained in the creek any longer,
had made a pilgrimage in the night en route for the
Balonne River, and had failed to reach it because
their map had not been lately charted up to show
the new netting subdivision.
HIS URGENT NEED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AVhen Barnes came home his Wife arose,
And gazed on him and wept.
“And this,” she stammered, “I suppose,
Is how a pledge is kept?”
Imperial Barnes then leaned across
A chair that wasn’t there.
He’d sworn with passionate remorse
That in the coming year
He’d taste no more strong drink, and now
Upon the floor he lay,
A cricket cap upon his brow,
His whiskers full of hay.
“Oh, I was forced, my love,” said he—
“ The cunning hand of Fate
Just thrust the whisky cup on me,
My oath to violate.
“For I was coming home ere noon,
And found a bottle just
Where lately some benighted loon
Had dropped it in the dust.”
She answered scornfully: “Indqed!
You may have found the drink,
But there was never any need
To swallow it, I think.”
“There was,” cried Barnes. “There was, of course,
For down the road full-split
The owner, spurring on his horse,
Was coming after it!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


illiin nh iii||Hi Mill'llln 111 '8
ytn i n 111 HUIIII inUWnum 1
A. Saunders’ Pearl and Aquamarine Cluster
Bar Brooch, 9ct. Gold, 12/6.
A Saunders’ Aquamarine 15ct. Gold Brooch,
. £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Bar Brooch, set Pearl,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
nhiL% 18ct. Gold,
£l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Trefoil Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £l2/10/-
n. Saunders’ Fine
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£3/15/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£25.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Wristlet Watch, 30/-
40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-. 80/-
Gold filled, £4/10/-, £5.
A. Saunuers’ fine
Diamond Necklet.
15ct. Gold.
£5/10/-
IE
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, 20/-, 25/-,
30/-. 15ct. Gold, 40/-,
50/-
A. Saunders’
Fine Diamond
Scarf Pin, 15ct.
Gold, £3.
>. Saunders’ Silver Hunting Keyless Lever,
Jewelled Escapement, £3. Extra Jewelled.
£4/10/-. Guaranteed, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Fine
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’
Lady’s Signet Ring,
9ct. Gold, 15/-;,
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold
Signet Ring, 20/-
15ct., £2.
A. Saunders
Gent.’s Fine Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £2O.
A Saunders’ 9et. Gold Nellie Stewart Secret Snap and Joint
Bracelet, £2/10/-; lighter, 40/-, 30/-; heavier, £3.
15ct. Gold, £4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-. 15ct. Gold,
£3/10/-, £3.
A. Saunders’ fine
Diamond Necklet,
15ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, daintily en-
graved, 13/0.
A. Saunders’
Diamond and
Pearl Scarf
Pin, 15ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Aquamarine or Yellow Sapphire
Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders’ Pearl and Aquamarine Bar
Brooch, Sot. Gold, 10/6.
A. Saunders’ Pearl Set Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£2/15/-
A. Saunders’
Diamond Cluster
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring,
18ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
King, 18ct., Gold,
£25.
A. Saunders’
Diamond Boat-
shape Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ Fine
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Wristlet Watch, 25/-, 80/-
40/-. Silver, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-.
Set. Gold, £4/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller,
805-815 George Street (opp. Railway Station), Sydney
HOW DO YOU SPEND YOUR
EVENINGS AT HOME ?
Why not enliven the
monotony of your dull
evenings with music? And
your children—are they
content to stay at home,
or do you find them going
where music and bright-
ness is to be found?
KEEP THEM HAPPY
AT HOME, and make
your own evenings bright
and cheerful with a
BEHNING
PLAYER PIANO
i
Do You Think You
Cannot Afford a
PLAYER PIANO?
It is our business to
make it possible for you
to own one. Let us ex-
plain our Easy Payment
System. A small deposit
(or better still, we will
buy your present piano
at its full value), and you
can pay the balance in
monthly payments spread
over a period of years.
During this period you
have the constant enjoy-
ment of the player, and
at the same time finding
real pleasure in saving to
acquire such a valuable
asset.
The World’s Most Artistic
Player Piario.
Make Up Your Mind Now
and come in and see all our various
Player Pianos.
or
Write for Catalogue and Price List with full
particulars of our Easy Payment System.
338 George Street, SYDNEY.


Why do People Prefer Sleep to Work?
One of the easiest things for a healthy
human being to do is to sleep! That’s
probably why so many prefer it to work
when work is in order. Nevertheless sleep
is one of mankinds greatest blessings, but
if unfortunately through overwork, worry
or illness you are unable to enjoy restful,
invigorating slumber, test the beneficial
effects of Clements Tonic. For overy thirty
years Clements Tonic has maintained its
popularity as a dependable, safe medicine
for insomnia, nervous debility, anaemia and
similar blood and nerve disorders. Try it,
purchase a bottle now, you’ll enjoy sound,
invigorating sleep right from the first few
doses!
CLEMENTS TONIC “Puts the ‘Vital* into Vitality.”
“Coolyah”: Fish within the outer influ-
ence of a dynamite charge become unconscious for
the same reason that a boxer is knocked out with an
uppercut to the point. In the latter case the force
of the blow is communicated to the three semi-
circular canals in the inner ear that compose the
organ of orientation (balance), causing unconscious-
ness through the liquid in the canals being sent
into violent agitation. In the case of the fish, wherein
the sense of orientation is even more important
than it is in man, a similar thing occurs. The
concussion affects the canals of the fish, stunning
them. It is this sense of orientation which a fish
uses to keep itself in the normal swimming posi-
tion, and when this sense is temporarily lost the
fish turns belly upwards.
* * * *
“Ragar”: During the “bad season” —the
N.-W. monsoon—mosquitoes are more than plentiful on
the islands in Torres Strait and in parts'of Papua.
Life is none too pleasant owing to these fever-carriers,
and it is not till the dragon-flies put in an appear-
ance that there is peace from their attacks. The big
fellow clears the atmosphere in double-quick time.
Generally after rain, when the ’skeeter glets in his
most deadly work, the dragon-flies arrive on the
scene, scout around like streaks of colored light, and
then get busy. In a couple of hours or so I have
known them to clear the air of ’skeeters which were
SHE HAD ROUGHED IT TOO.
EXPLORER : “Ah, the call of the wilds, the
lure of the bush—l love the open air
life!"
F RIEND: “So do I. Why, only yesterday we
had afternoon tea on the roof garden."
thick and busy before. The tale about the dragon-
fly killing bees is a libel. They leave bees alone, but
are sudden death to the house-fly, trochas-fly and
other pests up north.
“Bouragi”: In his account of the Aghai-
ambo, the alleged swamp-dwellers of Papua, “J.
Carew” (B. 16/9/’2O) follows the highly imaginative
story of an old-time Papuan R.M. who was
famous for discoveries of the sort. Among his other
“finds” was a race of tailed men in Central' Papua
OH, THESE FINICKY CUSTOMERS!
Waiter. I don't care for this snapper — it's not near so nice as the piece I had last
Friday
“Well, it’s off the same fish, sir!”
and rhinoceros tracks on the plateau top of Mt.
Albert Edward. Reliable investigators of the Aghai-
ambo found that they were ordinary land-dwellers
who had been driven into the big Musa swamps by
the raids of the Dariri people, who had nearly
exterminated them. The squelching of the Dariri
was followed by the return of the Aghai-ambos from
their hiding-places in the swamp thickets. Truer
lake-dwellers were an Opi tribe who, as recently
as 30 or 40 years ago, lived in house's built on rafts
on a deep circular lake between the mouth 1 ' of the
Opi and Kumusi rivers. They w v ere wiped ,o-1 by
the coastward invasion of the Binandele people from
the upper Kumusi country, but enough remained
of the rafts and mooring-posts to convince the writer
and other officials before and since his time that
the native story was a true one.
* * * *
“F.E.”: We put in at a small uninhabited
speck south of Ellice Island for firewood and fresh
water. It was swarming with huge
crabs and rats, which seemed to share
the place between them. One of the
crew, a Solomon Islander, wanting a
change of diet, went ashore with his
cane-knife and fishing-line, I watched
proceedings from the shade. He pro-
cured a cocoanut, sliced off the top,
drank the milk and ate most of, the
nut, leaving a portion at the bottom.
He then set the nut upright in the
sand close to the bush. Making a
running noose at the end of his fish-
ing-line, he placed the loop round
the hole in the top of the nutshell,
and, taking the other end of the line
to a safe distance, sprawled on the
sand and awaited developments. With-
in a few minutes the rats had smelt
the nut. The boldest approached and
poked his nose into the hole. The
sleek brown body followed the nose,
half the rat being inside. Then Solo-
mon in all his wisdom yanked the line
and hauled the rodent in. He caught 10
rats within as many minutes, and then
retired to cook them according to
some .favorite recipe of his own. I
tried the stunt at another place, and
never caught a bird as easily in my
life. The method has been adopted
by the entire crew, from the captain
down to Dababa, the cook, and native-fowls figure
regularly on the menu during and after a visit to
any island where there happens to be a native village
handy.
“O’Kell B.”: Record shearing tallies are
like most records in the bush. Some double-fleeced
ewes lose all the wool off their legs, and cut their
dresses down at the neck in a manner which maketh
glad the heart of the bad shearer-man —especially
when one of these double-fleecers count as two. But
these ladies are not half as fast as some old ewes
who unblushingly come to the shearing-pens with little
more than their hats on and a patch here and there.
Afterwards you hear of 300 a day*, which advertises
the station as a good place for shearers to go to
s:r*
a d Pastoial societies. If £-000 a year were
spent in prizes to encourage good as well as fast
shearing, it would be worth £200,000 a year to
Australia. If some of the “rough guns” whose tallies
get into print were put on the same clean cut
as I have here at Eenaweena, they would be behind
Towers, who lately shore 140 stud sheep perfectly.
I have done 228 at Benmore station myself, but it
was a poor performance compared with that 140
stud merinos. Only when prizes are offered big
enough to bring the most skilful shearers into com-
petition will we have records worth recording.
* * „ *
“Baree” : One of the unmentioned uses to
which a felt hat can be put when too old for wear
is as lampwieks. A felt wick will outlast ten cotton
ones and give a better light.
* * * »
“Yelnats”: It happened at Emerald
(W.Q.) last month. Jacky, in town on one of his
infrequent visits, had managed to get suitably drunk,
and awoke to find himself in the local lock-up. In
due course he appeared before the beak. “Jacky,”
said the P.M., “you are charged with being drunk
last night ; How do you plead ?” Jacky hung his
head. “Were you drunk last night, Jacky?” At
this Jacky muttered something about “I get run
in.” “But were you drunk?” persisted the magis-
trate.' No reply from the now thoroughly-depressed
Jacky. “Oh, well, Jacky, I fine you ten shillings.”
Jacky smiled from ear to ear. “Cripe, boss, you te
budgery feller,” he said. “I losem all right. Where
you findem ?”
* * * *
From veteran Dr. J. M. Creed (Sydney) :
Several “Abo” pars, the last from “Gagi,”
give varying accounts of the fate of a ship-
load of Chinamen on Rossel Island, one of
the LouiSade Archipelago, South-eastern New
lt is probable that the information given
to me in the year 1867 is the most authentic. In
that year I was the medical officer of the S. Aus-
tralian Exploring Expedition in the Northern Ter-
ritory. Captain Charles Edwards, in conjunction
with Captain Robert Towns, of Sydney, ’had a
number of vessels, among them the Woodlark, Mel-
anie and others, in command of various subordinates.
He himself used to have a large cutter —called, I
think, the Bluebell—in which he cruised to search
for new beche-de-mer ground, and to inspect his
various stations. He joined our expedition steamer
at Burketown, on the Gulf, in order to examine the
shore of North Australia for the various holothuria
he was interested in. We had a good deal of time
for yarning, and made full use of it. He told me
that some time before (I forget how long) he had
been in the locality of Rossel Island and come into
close contact with the natives. As a beche-de-mer
man he had in his crews numerous natives who
understood English as well as the various native lan-
guages of the Western Pacific. The story he had
pieced together was that a French vessel loaded
with several hundred Chinese coolies, who were being
taken to work on guano islands on the coast of
South America, ran on a reef and became a total
wreck. The white crew, not having more boats
than were needed for themselves, left the Chinamen
at the scene of the disaster, and started for the
Australian coast, which they apparently reached. At
any rate, a Frenchman some .years later was found
living with the blacks on the Cape York Peninsula.
A boat had landed to obtain water, and when it
left with a supply a big boy, apparently dying and
quite helpless, was abandoned on the beach. To even
his own surprise he made a complete recovery. His
presence was reported in, I think, the early ’seven-
ties, and the French Consul made arrangements for
his discovery and return to civilisation. He was
found to be a native of Rouen or it.s neighborhood.
I was subsequently told that, after his return to
his native place, he so craved for his old wild life
that he returned to the tribe and lived with it until
he died, if dead he yet is. Accounts of the Consul’s
action on his behalf appeared in the Sydney news-
papers of the time. Captain Edwards, by inquiry,
found that all the numerous Chinamen left had been
rescued by the New Guinea natives and put on a
small isolated island, where they were well fed and
cared for, but were eventually all killed and eaten
except two. These, being emaciated, were not killed.
The capta.in bought them for an American axe, and
brought them away to safety. Captain Edwards’s
two sons, whom I remember as very small boys, are
now respectively stipendiary magistrate and chief
draftsman of the Lands District in Sydney. An
account of the Rossel Island incident is briefly recited
in a book written by a naturalist whose name I
have not been able to recollect, and who lived some
time in New Guinea.
“Murray Yale”: “Stannum” wants to
know something about “smudging” trees. It is only
necessary to have a smoke screen just before sunrise.
The sudden heat on the frosted leaf does the damage.
Smildge boxes can be bought from any orchard sup-
ply co. Get these out about a chain apart, on the
south side of the garden, unless you can discern a
faint breeze from any other direction. On what ap-
pears a positively still night, you will nearly
always find a slight drift from the south. Half a
bag of cocky chaff for each dump, started with a
drop of kerosene, will also serve. Before retiring,
hang a thermometer well away from the house, about
6ft. from the ground. Set the alarm for 4 o’clock. Hop
out at that hour. If the thermo, is below 38deg.
get your fires going, as you can rest assured that it
will drop another few degrees before sunrise. We
have always had great success this way, providing
the mercury did not try to hop right out of the bulb.
P.S. —If there are any grumpy people in the house
take your tent under the trees for the season.
* * * *
“Ragar”: Before leaving the farm I
handed my dog, an Irish setter, over to Bill, who
chained him up inside the gate, and from there he
watched us drive away. That night I slept in a
pub 30 miles from the farm, and in the morning
found the dog lying asleep in my room. He’d
slipped his collar, and made the 30 miles after me.
I sent him back next day with Bill in the buggy, and
then started off in the opposite direction in tire
saddle. Two days later the dog was with me again,
though how he followed my trail on a horse he’d
never seen or smelt is more than I can say. I
sent him back again by a neighbor of Bill’s. Last
week I had a letter from Bill saying that the dog
had arrived safely, but had refused food, had spent
his time howling, and finally had hanged himself
by jumping over the gate against which he was
chained. Bill's idea is that it was suicide.
“Sassafras”: A sulky mare recently took
a bee-line for home at Crow’s Nest from Cleveland
(Q.), a distance of 150 miles. She made good going
to Ipswich, 50 miles, in the day and night, and
next morning was caught by the groom of one of
the stables and put in a
stall. She broke out of
that, smashed a plate-
glass window—which cost
her owner £47 to replace
—and resumed her jaunt.
It took her five days and
nights to do the complete
trip.
me ELY FIXED.
STREAK: “Strike me pink! ’Ow are yer?
Wotyer doin' now?"
SOUIRT: “ Blacksmith at a butcher's."
STREAK: “Wot!”
SQUIRT: “ Yeh — shooin' flies!"
“L. and Tommy” : The other day a large
gum-tree was attacked on the property of C. T.
Fisher, Modbury (S.A.). A crosscut saw was
worked clean through the butt near the ground at
a height where the trunk measured just on sft. in
diameter. They then, of course, expected the tree
to fall, but the limbs were so nicely balanced that
it remained upright. After several futile efforts to
get it to drop the men decided to leave it till next
morning—during the night it was thought the wind
would dislodge it. The following day, however, the
tree was still in position, and every effort failed to
make it topple over until it was dynamited to the
ground.
WHEN I WAS A CHUMMY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I was a “chummy” I worked for a spell
Far up in the hills where the Black Valley lies;
Where high on the hillside the rutting stags bell
And Paradise ducks o’er the lonely lake rise.
In a grove of red birches where fell a clear stream
From the snows of the Southland our rude whare
stood ;
There in sunshine and wind rang the axe till the
gleam
Of the moon lit dim aisles through the dusk of
the wood.
Newchums who go batching gain knowledge with
pain:
The bread that I baked turned the edge of the axe ;
The cows led me chases through swamp, bush and
rain,
And the mustering sheep scampered down the
wrong tracks.
But crisp was the air when I stepped out each dawn
And saw all the snow-topped hills tinted with
rose,
While the mist in the valley yet lay white as lawn
Where sheep from the frosted grass bleated their
woes.
And joyous the gallops on Canny and Kit,-
With Norah the bitch-pup, wild, wary and sly,
When we’d ride to the lake in the noon-heat, and sit
And yarn ere we plunged in, my comrade and I.
The pass might be blocked and the snowdrifts piled
high,
The fierce Arctic gales lay the bush monarchs low ;
But with roaring log fires, snug, sheltered and dry,
And plenty of tucker, we scorned wind and snow.
Old Time through his measure has sifted the years,
But fstill in the bush sounds the stag’s mellow call,
And in fancy I ride with its note in mine ears
By the mountain-rimmed lake where the mists
wreathe and fall.
N.s.w.
N. G.


MI
1
m
LARGE SIZE
NO ADVANCE IN PRICE
Under New Tariff. ■
r. ■ si
gd
• •to )
c
fib
s or
e
w:
%
<s-
O <-
o?
o <s>
m mu#u m# mwm mm™
wo., Irn, H+ftt


/ j
dnoao
-*O3
5-0
i?7n
n °<U
«3
X
tO%
\W
n\
\\%9
P.
mm
rTTTm
rnn
FTnTIIIIIIIIIIIIIIITIIIII!ll!!l!llll!!l!llllliri!l!l!;:ii]Mmii(T
EVERY Drop of
Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street, SYDNEY.
w.
A Plain
Fact!
yet. This idea may aggravate a consider-
able class whose only mental gift lies in the
knowing and remembering of languages and
who want languages to know, but every
great idea annoys somebody.
J. E.
A Primeval Chesterfield.
The writings of Herodotus and Strabo,
Manetho and Thucydides, Xenophon and
Polybius are scripts, of yesterday, and the
Apocrypha of Moses but a baby in its cradle
alongside “The Instruction of Ptah-llotep,”
which, with all that remains of the fragment
of Ke’gemni, is “the oldest book in the
world,” and the earliest specimen extant of
literary art. The papyrus on which the work
is written came into the possession of Prisse
d’Avennes, a distinguished French archaeolo-
gist, and was first published by him in 1547.
It is now in the Bibliotheque Nationale in
Paris. The exact place of its discovery is
unknown, but it is believed to have been
originally found by" one of the fellahin em-
ployed in the excavations of Thebes, amongst
the tombs of the Kings Entef of the Eleventh
Dynasty. Ptah-llotep of Memphis lived his
little span over 5000 years ago, or, according
to Flinders Petrie’s chronology, about 3500
8.C., under King Isosi, some 13 centuries
before Hammurabi, King of Babylon, drafted
his forerunner of the Code Napoleon, and
20 centuries before the birth of the Vedas
in their present form. But it is not to be
assumed that works on papyrus scrolls were
not written before that of Ptah-Hotep. The
records of the Egyptian monuments make it
clear that writing materials were used in the
First Dynasty, and that speech had been
reduced to visible signs even earlier still.
The scripts, however, are swallowed up in
the blur and shadow of antiquity—lost be-
neath “the crunching Wheels of Time.” Yet
(to change the metaphor), out of the
heterogeneous and pitiful flotsam that reluc-
tant seas have washed to us from the remote
past, we piece together the fragments, dis-
cerning here and there something real and
something vital through the mists of legend,
the encrustations of sacrosanct theology and
the empty formulas of those dead faiths with
which dwellers in the cities of Remembrance
were wont to drug themselves in that far-off
morning-time.
Ptah-Hotep reveals to us the principles of
morality current in his day. He is very
human. He writes with almost Chester-
fieldian suavity and meticulousness of eat-
ing in company (table manners) ; of con-
duct towards wayward children ; of behavior
to fathers; of the treatment of the quarrel-
some ; of those under your authority; of con-
duct towards superiors; of attitude towards
great men; and of the duty of cheerfulness.
In his conduct towards a wife his exhorta-
tions are: “Love thy wife purely. Clothe
her back; fill her stomach.” (Present day
practice may be stated: clothe her back and
she will feed the brute.) “Caress her. Fulfil
her desire during the time of thine existence;
it is a kindness which honors its master” (this
50 centuries before the sweet creature had
a vote !). “Be not brutal; consideration will
lead her better than force” (wise old Guy!).
"If thou repellest her it is an abyss. Open
thine arms to her and show her thy love.. .
Further on he girds at the unquenchable
talkers of every station (there were poli-
ticians even in those days) ; at the obstinate
ignoramus, the scholar, the tradesman, the
hard-working clerk, the w6ll-bred diner-out..
the gourmand and the gourmet.
Pundits! have noticed the remarkable
similarity between Ptah-Hotep’s “Instruc-
tion” and the Jewish didactic books—Pro-
verbs and Ecclesiastes, and the Wisdom of
Solomon and Ecclesiasticus in the non-can-
onical writings. Doubtless the Jewish com-
pilers borrowed liberally, having in mind
the admonition of the Egyptian to “be not
proud because thou art learned, but discourse
with the ignorant as with the sage. For no
limit can be set to skill, neither is there any
craftsman that possesseth full advantages.”
Other tabloids \yorth quoting are:—
Fair speech is more rare than the emerald that
is found by the slave maidens on the pebbles.
Refrain from speaking evilly.
Great is truth since the reign of Osiris.
The limits of Justice are steadfast.
Live in the house of kindliness, and men shall
come and give gifts of themselves.
The cautious man flourisheth, the exact one is
praised; the innermost chamber openeth unto the
man of silence.
Comfortable is the seat of the man of gentle
speech, but knives are prepared against one that
forceth a path, that he advance not, save in due
season.
Verily 5000 years are as yesterday, and
the world without suspecting it still rehearses
the forms and manners of civilised life
elaborated before the building of the pyramid
of Khufu, even before the dawn of written
history. The Present that man has is the Past
which he has appropriated and cultivated
anew. On the dead yesterdays and vanish-
ing to-days we build the impalpable to-mor-
rows. Fretfully we write anew on the un-i
folding scroll with stylus freshly pointed:
but the marks of the palimpsest are always
underneath.
TUBAL CAIN.
Lost Poets
The thought- of the lost poets clutches
strangely at the heart.
In the Old Testament there is a fragment
of a lyric drama which has come down to us
as “The Song of Solomon.” The Jews had
lost its meaning long before the Christian
era; and Christian pundits tried to preserve
the late Jewish tradition, which was sheer
nonsense. Only within the last 30 years
has the Hebrew scholar with imagination
re-read the old poem and revealed something
of its real beauty and value. Thus seen, it
is a very fine, forceful little play with a
chorus like that of the Greek tragedy; and
its theme is the victory of simple true love
oyer the blandishments of Solomon and all
his glory. Far back in the time of Jero-
boam, “who made Israel to .sin” by resent-
ing the exactions of Jerusalem and setting
up a free kingdom, there lived a poet who
could write a poem like that —a poem in
which a Western thought laughed to scorn
the old Oriental shames. How many brother
singers may there have been? What pos-
sible treasure of human thought and emotion
is buried under the dust of Northern Pales-
tine ! ,
Then there is Orpheus. v He seems to
belong wholly to myth; yet all through the
greater- Greek times fragments of his work
remained. Possibly he was not a Greek at
all; for he is supposed to have lived ip Thrace
at a tiipp when Greek settlement there was
very unlikely. Thrace may merely stand
in a general way for the North—for the
broad lands of Europe from which came the
larger race of which the Hellenes were a
minute fragment. And so Orpheus, whose
work still stood as a thing of delicate and
haunting beauty in the eyes of later Greek
poets, may have been the great voice sweeping
out of an older world, the thing remaining
as most worthy of the efforts of a thousand
ages. The Orphean fragments came down
to Christian times and then doom leaped
upon them. There was a sort of theology
in Orpheus resembling that of St. Paul; and
the monks of Alexandria seized upon this to
aid their propaganda. They did more, how-
ever, for they re-wrote the ancient poet to
suit themselves, corrupting the text and
twisting poetry to the tune of their own
controversies. So Orpheus died in cruel
literary martyrdom, and the things that now
bear his name may have a line of the old
or they may not, but the magic that once
charmed the world is gone. Sappho’s work
was nearly all destroyed by zealous Chris-
tians ; but the fate of Orpheus was the harder,
for he was forced to do menial work for his
destroyers. Away back at the beginning of
Irish story is Amergin; Welsh literary tra-
dition begins with Taliesin. Something of
glory remained round the names that could
carry them on through centuries of blood and
destruction. Yet there were probably critics
and literature societies discussing the value
of Orpheus before Israel came out of Egypt;
and people in Smyrna and Crete who thought
Sappho vastly over-rated. What a revenge
they got over the popular writer at the last!
But popularity in the highest fields of
literary endeavor has a real meaning and
cannot be brushed -lightly aside. Chaucer
was the popular poet of his day; Gower the
heavy man of letters to whom all made obeis-
ance. Shakspeare enjoyed great popularity ;
Spencer was the outstanding man to whom
the learned of the age gave first place. Look
at the relative values to-day. The “mute
inglorious Milton” is always a very doubtful
proposition, for if the singer has the force
in him he has also the will to be heard ; but
how many may have sung with that eager
will to charmed ears just before the man
with the axe battered in the door?
C. O. M.
The Oxford A
With all due respects to “S. T. Smith”
(R.P. 7/10/’2O), lam sick'to death of gup
about '‘the Oxford a ” and the Oxford
acceht in general. The genuine Oxford
accent is merely the accent of men
who happen to possess neither a drawl
nor a twang. What is usually called
“the Oxford accent” in Australia is a queer,
meticulously-pedantic sort of talk adopted
with great difficulty by certain people who
have not been to Oxford, in the hope that
their desperate attempts to hit the exactly
right shade of pronunciation will illude their
friends. As for the “Oxford a ” it has no
more to do with Oxford than with Chew
Magna or Little Mugford-on-Stoke. It is
merely the southern English a as contrasted
with the north-English (Lancashire and
Yorkshire) a. So far from coming in “some-
where about, 1880,” it has been an ordinary
Saxon vowel-sound for centuries, mostly
corresponding to the Anglo-Saxon long a,
sometimes representing a;. Why the north-
erners shortened it I don’t know; but I
have a vivid recollection of a group I came
upon in London once—four Lancashire
friends of mine (three of them Oxford men),
forced for some reason to shift camp to Bath,
and doing their best to get the pronunciation
of it right. “Bartholomew!” they said—
“ Bartholomew, Bartholomew, Barth
Barth....!” But they never quite got it.
POLLIO.
English or Polyglot?
It was often remarked in England dur-
ing the war that the Diggers spoke better
English than the English. Theirs was not
the accent of the London clubs —an asset,
incidentally, that has been acquired of late
years by most intelligent West End millin-
ers and stage supers—but, again, it was not
the almost unintelligible lingo of Yorkshire
or Worcestershire or Devon. An Austra-
lian from Perth .had, broadly, the same voice
and employed the same words as an Austra-
lian from Townsville; and no one of British
upbringing required a glossary or an inter-
Dreter to understand either of them. It is
a great heritage this of a common tongue
which is as pure as the natural laws of
growth admit in the case of a living thing.
The French are so jealous of their beautiful
language that it is guarded by an Academy
whose membership is the highest honor in
the reach of a literary Frenchman. The
Australian has never troubled his head on
such a score, and the result is the language
is being Americanised. Unfortunately, we
are not acquiring the American of Emerson
or Oliver Wendell Holmes or Washington
Irving, but • that of the New York and
I Chicago criminal classes. Yankee pugilists
and Yankee “crook dramas” have had some-
thing to do with it; but infinitely more
blameworthy are the cinema films and their
legends. It is inevitable that the popular
tongue of a country like the U.S.A. should
be a freakish exotic thing when we remem-
ber that in its capital city one may hear, in
the course of half an hour’s leisurely stroll,
about a dozen different languages. The dis-
tricts where the newly-arrived Poles, Czechs,
Lithuanians, Italians and Yids foregather are
more like ethnological museums than the
population-centres of a homogeneous people.
Key words from their innumerable dialects
are grafted on to the American language,
to be presently exported here with the next
moving-picture masterpiece. Consider the
following samples taken at random from
recent Sydney newspapers:—
She was a natural Vamp. Being pretty the men
fell for her in hundreds. Sure, she was having a
“regular time” till she bumped a guy who was vamp
proof !
Even Old Man Moon fell for her! Undoubtedly
you do, or have, known her, Mr. Masculine Gender,
and have had to get your heart vulcanised after the
episode. And beyond a doubt she’s on your wife’s
Hating List.
No great harm in such stuff? Quite true.
Except that it is an idiotic jargon which
bears no resemblance to the splendid tongue
in which the great ones of the race have
expressed' themselves. And the tragedy is
that it is forced upon impressionable youth
as being the mode of speech of the “stars”
■who are heroes and heroines to many of
them. The effect is becoming apparent in
the phraseology of the younger generation ;
just as the influence of the thing seen is
coming out in the male garments which are
weirdly flared, slashed and belted. If I
had my way the remedy would be drastic: I
would exclude a large class of Yankee films
from the Commonwealth altogether. But at
least there should be a Board of educated
men charged with the duty of translating
the legends into decent English. We censor
these works for moral tone. Why not for
literary purity as well?
J. B. D.
A Satchel of Books
Penny Plain, by O. Douglas (Hodder and
Stoughton). Another story of a Scotch
border village, full of feeling, with some
excellent character-studies, and interest that
never gets tired. The author of “The
Setons” has provided one of the season’s
best.
Desborouyh of the North-West Frontier,
by Joan Sutherland (Hodder and Stough-
ton). A stirring tale of the India that
looks out through the Kyber sword-slit into
Afghanistan, and of the making of great
irrigation works. There is quick action and
rich color in the story, and ghastly careless-
ness in the production. For most of the
untidiness the British printer is no doubt
responsible ; but the writer has helped. She
makes her engineer-hero, who is certainly a
mathematician, add 300 millionsi and a
quarter-million and get 400 millions; and
that’s either very careless or dashed won-
derful.
Early Sydney, by A. G. Foster (Tyrrell’s),
is a booklet that deserves well of the Aus-
tralian student—for one thing, because it
it well indexed. Although it is largely con-
cerned with the not very important question
as to which side of Sydney Gove Commodore
Phillip chose for his official landing—the
author gives his vote in favor of the western
side, at a point immediately below the site
of the Rawson Institute for Seamen —it con-
tains a mass of interesting general informa-
tion as to the genesis of Sydney. The more
that is discussed and written of. those first
days of British settlement in Australia the
greater man does Arthur Phillip appear. The
booklet is well illustrated with modern photo-
graphs and reproductions of (Jrawings of
old-time Sydney.
The Inky Way
How easy it is to suggest what you don’t
mean is shown by a writer as careful as
Prof. Ernest Scott, of Melbourne Univer-
sity, in his new book, "Men and Thought in
Modern History.” Intending (as the con-
text shows) to be complimentary, he says
that Matthew Arnold “wrote so much that
was rarely beautiful.”
“Silenus” on another veteran: —
Attention was recently drawn to two literary
veterans, Edmund Gosse and Thomas Hardy, the
latter’s eightieth birthday having just passed. But
Frederic Harrison beats them by ten years. He
approaches his ninetieth birthday and still his ink
trickles on to the front pages of the Fortnightly.
Harrison was born in 1831. He took a classical
first-class at Oxford when 22, and was called to
the Bar five years later. He wrote an article in
the first number of the Fortnightly, in May, 1865;
it appeared in company with contributions by Hux-
ley, Bagehot, Trollope, George Eliot and G. H. Lewis.
Afterwards came John Morley, Lecky, Swinburne,
Meredith and Pater, Leslie Stephen and Herbert
Spencer. We “were a poor lot,’’ he says, with fine
irony—“Grangrinds and Pecksniffs, bred upon Dar-
win, Mill and Spencer, Comte and Carlyle. We used
to think that Tennyson and Browning were poets;
we knew nothing about cubism in geometry, art or
music; we believed that evolution opened a new
world to science; that marriage vows were -meant
to be kept. AVe elders of the dead world will bury
our dead. We look on wondering and hope/for you.”
TO THE MEMORY OF LOUISA ALBURY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I might have raved in verse and' prose
The wrongs of one bush-woman dead,
To shame the smug, smug smiles of those
Who sit in peace where tape is red;
I might have sung a song of pride
For things their souls shall never know—
I only see a bush-girl ride
Through rugged ranges long ago.
I might have worn a band of crape;
But this is foreign to our breed.
(The face and crape we wear at home
Are very real things indeed.)
I might have said —well, anything,
Of things that were and things that are.
I only hear a bush-girl sing
To diggers from the lands afar.
I might have done what I shall do
And had done in the days gone by.
So hold me true who held me true,
And let them lie who love to lie.
1 yet may be what I have been —
And was before the fools could see—
A sober gentleman, and clean,
For my Girl-Mother’s memory.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


1
m
m
m
u
hi H i
m
Pi
r»t
liiiil
S?A
fni m
BSS1»
11 IT} I
F~
1111 l
mm
m'
s
m
■MyUil
m
i'bK'
te
■{fZkf&gvJ:
' ‘"l*
* 'WiMam
im
Mp§
am
mmmhs
9S
W
3»
■£P
r ZS/AW-l
Sttt
wapraasf
ifslss^v® ! ’ ' . ••'•••
U 5
CismS
y« n
■4*
■
%
c
1
£3,
-:.
ACHIEVEMENT
Twenty-seven years ago the General Electric
Company was founded.
Since then, electricity has sent its thrill
through the whole structure of life.
Eager to turn wheels, to lift and carry, to
banish dark, to gather heat, to hurl voices
and thoughts across space, to give the world
new tools for its work—electricity has bent
to man’s will.
Throughout this period the General Electric
Company has held the great responsibilities
and high ideals of leadership.
It has set free the spirit of research.
It has given tangible form to invention, in
apparatus of infinite precision and gigantic
power.
And it has gone forth, co-operating with
every industry, to command this unseen force
and fetch it far to serve all people.
By the achievements which this company
has already recorded may best be judged the
greater ends its future shall attain, the deeper
mysteries it yet shall solve in electrifying
more and more of the world s work.
THIS ORGANISATION IS NOW AT YOUR SERVICE IN ALL MATTERS PERTAINING TO ELECTRICITY
<2
0-
Wentworth Avenue
SYDNEY
sg
Cr. of Queen 1? Little Collins sts
MELBOURNE
AGENTS
ADELAIDE, S-A, —Charles Atkins 3c Co Ltd., 88-90 Currie St
BRISBANE, Q —The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia Ltd
»•* (E.S.C.A.), Corner Edward and Charlotte Sts.
TASMANIA —Oliver & Oliver. HOBART and LAUNCESTON
PERTH, W.A. -Charles Atkins SC Co. (W.A.) Led., "Mazda House,”
894 Hay Street j
NEW ZEALAND —The National Electrical tic Engineering Co. Ltd., ALICK.LAN 1.), CHRIS I CHURCH, DUNEDIN, WELLINGTON


I’ve worked out west,
Down south, up north,
For hours and hours by day.
My constant call throughout them all —Hey !
Get the Wool Away!
CONSIGN:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
'Selling Brokers, ltd.
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
(
Ji
OYCES
S^NevvBiscuits;
i
Made of the purest ingredients in
a factory Hooded with sunshine and
fresh air. Joyce Biscuits would
tempt a phantom to eat, and
nourish it too.
Their flavor is delicious, and they
reach you, daintily packed in Jib.
air-tight paper containers, or in 21b.
and 41b. tins. Always keep some
on your pantry shelf, ready for
parties and picnics or the unex-
pected guest.
Your Grocer Sells Them.
S2xZy varielics
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
iSBI
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & -
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
“ THEY COME AS A BOOM & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE; PICKWICK, THE OWi & THE WAVERLEY PEN."
nr
a
r*
JSL
KEEPS CONTENTS
Ice-Cold 72 hrs. Hot 24 hrs.
dsg
Icy-Hot Bottles are
ideal for all climates
and are made for
hard usage.
Extra Protection is
ensured by a coiled,
spring and pad under
bottle which absorbs
jolts and jars and
makes the bottle
practically unbreak-
able.
Absolutely
Sanitary,
because the
spring - tight
neck - fitting
prevents
'hawing Made in various
Bottle sizes and styles
de-mounted from y 2 -pint up.
leakage of liquid into the outer
case.
The Name ICY-HOT clearly
stamped on the bottom of each
bottle is a guarantee of the
Standard of Perfection.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES.
Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
The ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.,
159 West Second Street,
Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Icy-Hot Jar
for solid food
/A'lSlßWillA'N
IHB
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
sd
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
gds
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust —Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
‘‘Collins House," 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRTv. 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES. 02 Brookman Buildings.
OSTER Bulldog Stocks and Dies are preferred
by steam fitters
because they cut properly-tapered thread of fin.
taper to the foot and do not strip the screw.
When the fittings are screwed on the joints are tight.
For steam joints, conduit and signal work this is very important.
DISTRIBUTORS
Clias. Atkins & Co., Ltd., Adelaide,
(has. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Perth.
John Dunks & Son Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
John Danks & Son Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Parke & Lacy Co. Ltd., Sydney.
It. L. Scrutton & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Swans, Ltd., Sydney.
Predc. Ash, Ltd., Newcastle.
Paul & Gray, Ltd., Newcastle.
A. Goninan & Co., Ltd., Newcastle.
T. ,J. Cane & Co., Ltd., Hobart.
McPherson’s Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
McPherson’s Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Engineering Supply Co. of Aus., Ltd.,
Brisbane.
Anil many other Machinery, Hardware and Plumbers’ Merchants.
SPARE DIES AND PARTS CARRIED IN STOCK.
Factory Representative: CHARLES WRIGHT, 1G Hunter Street, Sydney.
The
gds
MANUFACTURING CO.,
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.S.A.,
Screwing Tackle Specialists.
IS
A PERFECT
SHAVE.
It’s British.
Christopher Johnson & Co.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Their Famous Full Hollow-Ground
Metropolitan Razor.
PRICE 10/6,
Of all Stores.
If unable to procure send Postal Note to their Representatives.
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, 50 York Street, SYDNEY.
328 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
URODONAL
The Great French Remedy for Gout, Rheumatism, Gravel, Calculi,
Obesity, Acidity, Arterio-Sclerosis.
IV
<•
i
The age of a man is the age of his arteries. Keep your arteries young by
taking URODONAL/, and you will thereby avoid Arterio-Sclerosis, which
hardens the walls of the blood vessels and renders them stiff and brittle.
THE SIGN OF THE TEMPORAL ARTERY.—(Dieulafey’s Temporal
Sign.) “If you should see between the eye and the root of the hair,
under the wrinkled and withered skin of the temples, a kind of hard,
bluish and knotted cord protruding, he on your guard, for you are
threatened with senility. It does not matter if you have not a white hair;
your arteries are growing old. It is necessary to act immediately. Purify
your blood of the poisonous substances which taint it, and especially of
the most dangerous of all, viz.. Uric Acid.”
Dr. J. D. S. BOTAL.
DISSOLVES URIC ACID as easily as warm
water dissolves sugar!
PREPARED BY ETA BUIS SEMEN TS CHATEDAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 10/9.
Can be obtained from all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australasia,
or from CH ATE LA IN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 352 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY, from whom also can be obtained Free Booklet containing
Medical Opinions.
Adelaide Chamber of Manufactures has
just finished paying for its offices in Pirie-
street, bought 10 years ago for £10,500, and
now. worth half as much again. The last
£OOOO required to clear off the mortgage
came out of the profits of a recent exhibi-
tion of Australian-made goods.
Ah, well, it might be worse. A recently-
returned Commonwealth engineer quotes
the prices at the store at Hall’s Creek,
Nor’-West Westralia, 240 miles from Wynd-
ham: Flour. 315., per 501 b. bag; sugar, £2
15s. per 701 b. bag; soap, 2s. 9d. per bar;
tobacco, 15s. per lb. The residents are quite
interested in the development of cargo-
carrying aeroplanes.
“Audio”: The opening of the new flour-
mill at Dungaree was an imposing ceremony.
All the notables of the district were present,
including the local policeman. In due course
we arrived at the toasts. “Gentlemen, the
King,” roared the chairman. The toast
was drunk. Then the John Hop struggled to
his feet. “Mr. Chairman and gentlemen.”
ho said, “as the only representative of his
Majesty present, I have much pleasure in
responding to the toast you have just
honored.” (Cheers.)
Gladstone (Q.) has suggested that the
towns of the same name in N. S. Wales, S.
Aus. and Tasmania shall change theirs, to
avoid confusion. South Aus. has a “nomen-
clature committee” (E. M. Smith, Rodney
Cockburn and 11. C. Talbot) which advises
the Government on such matters; and it
snorts at the Northern suggestion. The
township took the name in 1572 by special
permission of the great man himself, and
has since received a portrait of him from
his son. Incidentally, though irrelevantly,
Gladstone had an interest in pastoral coun-
try in South Aus. about 1845, and sent liis
nephew to look after it.
“Cos”; lie “Brush” (B. 30/9/’2O) and
the latest addition to the Melbourne Art
Gallery. In November, ’j.6, I was re-
turning from London to Weymouth. In the
compartment in which I travelled I noticed
a colored photo of Lulworth Cove that to
me looked more like a lake several hundred
feet above sea-level than part of the English
Channel. After the Armistice I had a trip
to Lulworth Cove, and, sure enough, viewed
from the cliffs, the Cove does suggest, a lake
400 feet or so above sea-level. If it is wrong
for an artist to paint things just as they
look, then I’ll light the fire with my palette.
Some more people have been writing from
London about Australia House, that million-
pound vision in Bullopolis where Andrew
Fisher spends an occasional hour at £5OOO
a year. According to one complainant, an
official showman was recently encouraging
immigrants by views of Australian cities with
the old “Enlist Now” bills to reveal their
lack of up-to-dateness. His picture of the
Yarra which he said was the Swan enraged
Victorians, who alleged that the shipping
exhibited was theirs; and after some im-
passioned but vague statements concerning
the fertility of the country the audience was
shown the film of a journey across the trans-
continental railway—l26o miles of solid
drought.
The Board of Trade has just fixed the basic
wage for an adult male worker in N. S. Wales
at £4 ss. per week ; and some of the unions’
spokesmen say they are disgusted—it ought
to be at least 20s. more. Nurses in the great
public. hospitals to which the unionists and
their, wives and children go in sickness are
meanwhile being nursed by young women,
from 21 upwards, who have to be satisfied,
some of them, with Bs. per week. That’s the
pay of first-year probationer-nurses. Even in
their fourth year, when they are at least 24
years of age, their pay is but 15s.—with
board, of course: they couldn’t very well live
off the premises in view of the work they
have to do and the hours they have to do it
in. A few pence have been added to the
weekly pay during the past year or two; but
a fourth-year nurse’s salary is no better now,
for all practical purposes, than a first-year
probationer’s was seven years ago. No won-
der, instead of being deluged with applica-
tions, some hospitals have nowadays actually
to advertise for recruits !
“11. H.” : “You’re jingling that ha’penny a
good deal,” scoffed N. S. Wales Attorney-
General McTiernan when it was mentioned
that he had refused to prosecute (for charging
more than the fixed price) a fairly rich man
who was a fellow Celt and fellow Laborite
and also Lord Mayor of Sydney. Well, it
was over exactly a ha’penny instead of
Bd. on a lib. sale) that a Coogee (Sydney)
tradesman fell in last week for £2 or a month,
and no “first offender” stunt saved him. The
case was pushed. He said that he was in a
small way, had to stick to his shop himself,
had never been informed that the article had
been fixed and hadn’t the faintest idea of it.
Of course he ought to have known ; still, he
isn’t Lord Mayor of the Government Print-
ing Office wdiere they sell you the Bottle-
washers’ award and the newest regulations
about the price of blue herrings. Also the
name of the small man who fell in sounded
Scotch, and Presbyterian Scotch at that; and
the man himself had forgotten to take an
interest in Labor politics.
“R. C. Aussie”: “Solomon Malaprop”
calls for archbishops named McDougall (B.
7/10/’2O). Why McDougall? The Austra-
lian native is well to the. fore, numerically
and intellectually, among "the rank and file
of the R.C. priesthood. He is nearly half
in number of the total, and as regards local
knowledge is streets ahead of the imported
article. But of the 20 or so R.C. bishops
in Australia only four are Australian-born
—an unfair proportion from any point of
view, and ludicrously inconsistent from the
Sinn Fein standpoint. Not always was the
Australian episcopal bench an Irish pre-
serve. The earlier bishops were more often
than not Englishmen. Polding, Vaughan
and Ullathorne (who lashed the convict
system with tongue and pen 1 are still names
to conjure with. Cardinal .Moran seems to
have been the first of the new tradition. And
he, at any rate, was a good Australian who
won approval from the otherwise hostile
Parkes in the days when it was touch and
go with Federation. The Australian priest
is a very patient individual, but he is get-
ting very tired of Irish Sinn Fein, and very
thirsty for a little more Australian Sinn
Fein; and. judging by a thing here and
there, the Anostolic Delegate is not without
sympathy with him.


: '"' r m
a rnmommirnm
■ri-
v
/
t, \
•\< n
min
I A
£3
.
s/
•id
V
: ;
iss
-4
A: .
wl
.
... '!
•i
W:
m
fc
f|
■.. :-i
■
66
Millers” grip the road
—and hold it!
The tread of the “MILLER” tyre is “geared-to-the-
road.” Its cog-like feet mesh with road depressions
and minimise shock. As the tyre revolves every cog
momentarily takes a caterpillar grip, engaging the
surface with bulldog tenacity. This prevents slippage
and saves power. The tyre grips and holds the road!
“Miller” Tyres are hand-built by veterans. Every
tyre is signed inside by the man who makes it. Thus
every workman assumes personal responsibility for
the quality of his output.
Every “Miller” Tyre wears alike, because all are
BUILT alike! Uniform quality means uniform mileage!
Mr. C. M. Deane, of Sydney, used a pair of “Millers” over 8036 MILES!
Fit “Millers”—for REAL ECONOMY. Test them —see what they save!
MILLER RUBBER CO., Akron, Ohio.
Distributors:
SYDNEY—ROBERT LITTLE & CO.
MELBOURNE—LATROBE MOTORS
PTY.. LTD.
BRISBANE—SMELLIE & CO.. LTD.
ADELAIDE—WALTER TURNER.
HOBART—F. W. HERITAGE & CO.
GEARED-TO-THE ROAD
UNIFORM MILEAGE


g
HOLEPROOF HOSE
have been bought by
millions of people for
many years. That fact
alone is proof enough
of extraordinary
value.
Have you ever thought
what YOU may be mis-
sing by going without this
brand ?
Here is practically . . .
ABSOLUTE FREEDOM
from darning and you
have the choice of pure
silk and fine lisle.
sdg
If your
dealer is
unable to
supply you,
write us.
Indents and
Wholesale thru
WAL T E R
C A T H R ()
PTY. LTD.
oO Yopk T.
SYDNEY.
?>
4
9
Talc
Powder
Williams 1
Talc Powder
CARNATIO N
m
NET
W T
You get a
wide choice
of Perfumes
when you
give WILLIAMS
TALC. POWDER
your preference—Violet,
Carnation, English Lilac,
La Tosca Rose, Matinee
(new) also Baby Talc,
(practically unscented).
Your chemist or .draper
should have WILLIAMS
TALC. POWDER. If he
cannot supply you send; 1/8
in stamps to W llliams, Box
98, G.P.0., Sydney, for full
size tin Post Free.
W. 20
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF: —From 17/6 per day.
10/- per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
PARSONS
Marine and
Stationary
OIL ENGINES
KEROSENE
or
PETROL.
ds
Made in Sizes
from 7 h.p.
to 90 h.p.
14-h.p. Marine Set.
ROBERT GRANT,
03 Pitt Street
SYDNEY.
SKF
BALL
BEARINGS
The factory engineer who installs SKF
Self-Aligning Ball Bearings throughout his
plant has done the utmost towards reaching
highest efficiency with maximum economy,
for SKFs save from 50% to 100% of their
value yearly.
SKF Ball Bearings are made from Swedish
Crucible Steel, are accurately finished and uniformly
hard thoughout.
SKF
Bseo
Bearings do NOT become hot, hence
they prevent loss of power due to excessive
friction. They assure smooth, free running,
saving of power, saving of belts and supreme
durability.
Specify SKF Bearings (the World’s
best) for every part of your plant that
needs bearings.
GARDNER,
W/ERN
& CO.,
Power & Light
Engineers.
•MELBOURNE—
-384 City Road.
Showrooms—
-369 Flinders Street
SYDNEY-
-225 Clarence St.
BRISBANE-
-367 Queen Street.
SUNBEAM
Mr. S. F. EDGE
OPINION a
Sunbeam-Coatalen
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Export Dept. : 62, OXFORD STREET, LONDON, W.l.
Cable Jlddress : Head Office:
" SUBEAMOCO, LONDON." WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
C/5
“I find
a smooth-
ness and
promptness and progres-
sive development of pick-
up unmatched by that of
any car I can call to mind.
ln fact I should
characterise the car as one
that can be driven by the
most critical judge without
a complaint of any sing'e
point of its functioning
As a whole, I
regard this 24 h.p. Sun-
beam as a most notable
addition to the world’s
powerful 6-cylinderedcars,
of which the Sunbeam
Company may justly be
very proud, and with
which Sunbeam owners
should not fail to be
thoroughly satisfied.”
gas
sr*r
&
m
South Wales: FRASER & WILXSFORD. 822 George Street, Sydney
Sole Agents tor New
S. Australia reckons that even Mildura
can't beat it in orchard values. The other
day 10 acres of orchard near Waikerie were
sold for £3500. One big S. Aus. orange-
grower on the Murray has got rid of 14,000
cases this last season at an average of 10s.
When the skeleton is cleaned up the Adel-
aide Museum will, it reckons, be well to the
front in the world's museum competition for
whale frameworks. An 87-footer of the blue
species came ashore a while ago at Streaky
Bay, and is now having the meat taken off
the bones.
“Golden Beef”: Beef is dear in Vic., but
it is no wonder when a chance at a gold
medal goes with it. As a Kensington butcher
was cutting up a bullock at the abattoirs
he came on a gold locket which had been
presented to E. S. Kelly at St. Arnaud in
1890. Kelly’s widow turned up to claim
the locket, which had been lost by her hus-
band while he was making a cricket pitch in
a paddock 15 years ago.
“1.P.": Discount and clearing sales have
been held for all manner of reasons; bufc
Cootamundra struck a new one. W. A. Hol-
man and P. J. Minahan were fighting an
election in which feeling ran pretty high, and
just prior to polling-day the usual greeting,
'Tlow’re you going to vote?” began to get on
one local storekeeper’s nerves. Whereupon
he ran out a notice: “Ten per cent, discount
to all customers who don’t ask me how I’m
going to vote.”
“Mini”: A crowd of city boys holidaying
in a country township acquired a large
thirst late at night, and decided that the
only remedy was a visit to the back door of
the local pub. Though he didn’t know them
the licensee cheerfully handed out a dozen
and collected the usual after-hour price. The
party adjourned to a quiet spot, but the first
swig set all hands striking matches to see
which brewery was putting sugar in its
booze. “Near-beer” was the mocking inscrip-
tion. Those country pub-keepers are not
half as dull as some of ’em look.
When N.S.W. Motherhood Minister McGirr
has carried through all his other schemes he
might spare a minute or two to inquire
Into the conduct of private hospitals. Any-
body with a few pounds can now buy a
brass-plate and jhave it screwed up outside
premises, no matter how unsuitable* intimat-
ing that within they will take your five or
six or seven guineas a week for nursing you
through an illness. There are private hos-
pitals in Sydney whose “matrons” are not
qualified nurses. Some of them have only
one trained nurse to their name; the matron
is really the cook-general, and the rest of
the “nursing” is done by .so-called proba-
tioners, who are really little maids-of-all-
work. They don’t specialise—they are glad
to grab any sort of case that happens along;
even mental and maternity cases are mixed
with results that are likely to be, and in
some instances actually have been, disas-
trous. Private hospitals ought to be licensed
and subject to frequent inspection.
“Sepik”: Reference (B. 30/9/’2O) to
Pierre Rochaix and his trip to Papua to
round up escapees from New Caledonia re-
minds me. In 1904, with three mates, I was
cruising in a schooner south of Guadalcanal
in the Solomons, when we sighted a boatload
of what at first we took to be castaways,
On picking them up, we discovered them to
be five convicts from lie Non, the prison
station at Noumea. They were just about
done, their water having given out some days
previously, but with proper treatment they
pulled round —all except one. The escape
had been planned close on a year (all five
were lifers), but it was not until about three
weeks before we picked them up that they
saw their chance, and, managing to steal a
boat —a craft, by the way, in which one
would have grave doubts about making a
passage across Sydney Harbor —they got
away. Later on (I suppose there is no harm
in confessing it now) we landed them with
clothes, food and money on the coast between
Samarai and Port Moresby. A few years
afterwards a note reached me at a Sydney
address, which we had given them, bearing
a N.Q. postmark. The writer, one of the
four, was prosperous, but made no mention
of his mates.
From the Office Savonarola
It is an odd fact that the city girl, and in par-
ticular the pub-loafing, cigarette-smoking type of
city girl, should be the first to get hold of the dam’-
fool tricks of a similar class of girl on the other side
of the earth. Odd because the country and suburban
girls see the illustrated papers and picture-shows
which provide the necessary examples for imitation
as soon and as freely as any. Not long ago every
female habitue of a winter-garden who was under
40 featured a walk in which the right arm was
swung pendulum-wise across her waistband. Gertie
Millar originated this movement in 1909. Misguided
young women were still practising it in the outer
suburbs of Melbourne and Sydney as late as 1918,
and it is doubtless just coming into fashion at Dead
Cow Creek and Dog Plain.
And now the city girl proper has got on to a
new stunt. Watch her greeting a friend. Nature
has been defeated to the extent that she is as
flat-chested as one of those “men-women” who
periodically figure in the police-courts. Her brief
skirts billow amidships, so producing an effect,
usually illusive, of broadness in the beam. She takes
her stand with one leg thrust forward, the knee
bent, the foot turned inwards. The hind leg is
likewise bent and the foot so twisted as to head
towards the heel of the leading member. The Little
Mary or bread-basket region is pushed well to the
front and the missing chest brought as far to the
rear as possible. She is now in position.
The right arm is brought up with a sud-
den pump-handle effect and maintained in a
rigid position with the hand drooping limply in
readiness to be grasped. The head is flung back-
wards. Simultaneously a mirthless and arid grin
distorts the lower part of the face; persists for per-
haps ten seconds; then vanishes as swiftly and
mechanically as it appeared. This manoeuvre ema-
nated from Gladys Cooper in 1917; became fashion-
able in the West End of London amongst the vast
army of colorless females who batten on the person-
alities Of others; died and was passed on to the Eng-
lish provinces, and arrived here some six months
ago. In 12 months’ time a Sydney business girl
living up the North Shore line will be seen attempt-
ing it on her home railway-station while clad in
goloshes and a macintosh. That will mean that
it is finished, so far as Menzies’ and the Hotel Aus-
tralia are concerned, and is due shortly to move on
Broken Hill and Kalgoorlie.


gds
Articles of Quality
m
r
' .i. n
*s®
1
;
1
f all
Codirv
soott\ii\<f —
sm
15C[J
ifles
ulel
Ml r
k Heals J
%
©'Xenia
15
A IkW.U< h>. ,11 «„pl.s:, ».* ufTT,.
l:ctr>«fk Pi»**pW» ,CKi»bl»i»*» Har'd!,
Sc«AV<i& . TfcV>irx» fjr- (SW'«-U,«o ( , fpu<m, Br*Al V-
vU<l L«p «ll k»»xls or IhHttipiooa
bole Proprieho»‘S
REXONA PROPRIETARY COMPANY
P"
m
'€
ri>
wimum
■Hi
X
L i»i
kflli
thifi
HtOn
Jim
fee
n
m v
> i/ ,
fs* 1.
’iillli://n/J
%s
w
'iSmli *\M
mi?
3ve*ona
Shaving Soap
'©Vie triangular Stick
llou vJill \vish now kad used it before
IS
X
©
g°
atxd Bea
. -OU
g
11l I
\ I' 1 1
aill
y*»ii
9
t
TRY THE- REXONA PRODUCTS.
They consist of Rexona the Rapid Healer, Rexona Skin and Facial Soap, and Rexona the
Triangular Shaving Stick, all universal favorites. The wonderful healing powers of Rexona have
made it a password in nearly every home in Australia. For Cuts, Burns, Scalds or Skin Diseases
and Eruptions of any kind Rexona is unequalled, being cooling and soothing.
Rexona Soap is the best preservative for the skin and hair that is obtainable, and leaves the hair
soft, fluffy and luxuriant. Shampoo your hair with Rexona Soap, and you will be delighted with the result.
Rexona the Triangular Shaving Stick makes for comfort and hygiene in shaving; it produces a
thick, creamy lather, and keeps the skin in perfect condition.
THE RAPID HEALER


m
/•cS
* * V c \
\ 0 c\
Cuticura Hair Is Usually
Thick and Healthy
Start him right if you wish him to have
thick, healthy hair through life. Regular
shampoos with Cuticura Soap will keep
his scalp clean and healthy. Before
shampooing touch spots of dandruff and
itching, if any, with Cuticura Ointment.
A clean, healthy scalp means good hair.
For sample each address: “R. Towns &
Co., .Sydney, N. S. W.” Sold everywhere.
ISJSP~Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
So,ap. 1/-; Ointment. 1/- & IS/-
WARATAH
FENCING
IR
s*
WM*
Free to
Farmers.
The Waratah Fencing Booklet
—it is full of vital points on
fencing. Write to-day for your
free copy.
Waratah Wire strains tighter,
costs less.
AUSTRAL NAIL CO. PTY.Ltd.
sdg
Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE.
HR
r
ds
The New Idea
in Summer Underwear
“Keepkool” is the
healthy man’s un-
derwear. Made
from absorbent
long staple cotton,
it is both ribbed
and porous ensur-
ing fullest comfort
throughout the hot
summer months.
SOLD BY
LEADING MERCERS
Wholesale Distributors:
HILL BROS, Sydney and Melbourne
' KEEPKOOL ” for COMFORT
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by tfie Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
£
•c
VA
fa
(Q
m
2
&
QO
CO
uJ
m
A
&
&
m
*©
See Hi is brand
on each shirt
Thistle Shirts impart the same
effect experienced when you
slip into a perfectly tailored
suit of clothes. You feel better
instantly.
A Thistle Shirt fits you all over.
Finished as expertly as it is
cut, with qualities of style and
workmanship which no other
shirts possess.
Thistle Shirts are sold by all
leading Shirt Departments.
You should also ask for Thistle
Pyjamas.
Alexander Stewart & Sons Ltd.
Makers
Brisbane and Sydney
AS 51
h
' ' MllZ
/ n
a
32
- t> - =^£>
ao
slS^
a?
SSIT
Sr'*\:
-m^w/
/l/V
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
gsd
BY
APPOINTMENT
gsd
TO
H.M. THE KING
SCRUBBS AMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATION OF INSECT BITES.
Of all Grocers, Chemists, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
g
Are You Weed Farming?
TREES AND SCRUB
ST. JOHN’S WORT
BLACKBERRIES
THISTLES FERNS
BOXTHORN, GORSE
COUCH, RAGWORT
FURZE SORREL
WEEDS of every kind
IT!
poison]
EED, SCB>
Trf.e Ki I*
O, RICTiOHS
LEGCO 8. CO 1 ,
'•' *»»Mi 11
The great majority of Farmers, Orchardists, and
others to-day are allowing Thistles, Sorrel, Gouch
Grass, and a hundred other pests to shade, choke,
and crowd out useful plants and grasses, allowing
them to absorb the soil moisture, rob the plant
food in the ground, increase the cost of every opera-
tion in the preparing of the land, in the seeding,
cultivating, harvesting, and marketing of their
crops. In short, they’re Weed Farming,
Blackberries, Boxthorn, St. John’s Wort, and Rag-
wort are in undisputed possession of thousands
of acres of valuable country, mostly because their
eradication is considered impossible or
too laborious.
But, is their extermination impossible ?
Not a bit of it, Mr. Landholder! Granted
you have used every conceivable means in
vain—have you ever used
"VALLO” Weed, Scrub
and Tree Killer ?
Have you heard that in all parts of
Australia “Vallo” has effectively killed
every kind of Noxious Growth to which
it has been applied—Blackberries, Box-
thorn, St. John’s Wort all included ?
“Vallo” is the easiest, handiest, and most
economical Weed, Scrub, and Tree Killer
procurable. It’s in powder form, very
soluble, and is used as a spray.
Prices: 56 lbs. 70/-, 15 lbs. 21/3,
7 lbs. 10/6, 1 lb. 2/-, & lb. 1/3.
Postage: Within the State, 1 lb. 9d., J lb. 6d. extra.
Interstate, I lb. 1/2, A lb. Bd. extra.
Manufactured in
Australia by
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO,
MELBOURNE
SYDNEY - BRISBANE
the: palace hotel
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River,
JOHN T. GLOWREY. Proprietor.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
N.S.W. Education Department has joined
with the Athateur Swimming Association to extend
swimming classes to the Backblocks. Harold Hard-
wick goes out as the standard-bearer.
Conan Doyle confided to an interviewer
in Melbourne, that he was offered the job of referee-
ing the Jim Jeffries-Jack Johnson match at Reno,
but declined on the ground that it was a long way
to go to chance the hostile demonstration that would
probably follow if the black fellow were given the
decision.
* * * *
“Kayiee”: A one-legged man umpired at
a Petersburg (S.A.) cricket match some years ago.
While two men were running between wickets a
fieldsman heaved the hall, missed the stumps, and
struck the umpire’s wooden peg. The ball cannoned
far enough to allow the batsman to score another
run and his team won by just that margin. How
about it?
*** * .
At Wauchope (Hastings Ritter) there was
recently a competition between Amos Murrel, Ivor
Johnston and Thomas Cooper for the title of cham-
pion wood-chopper of N.S.AY. and a stake of £l50 —
each threw in £5O. After a great go Murrel won
front Johnston (holder), with Cooper last. The logs
used were 16in., and the time was lmin. 12Jgec.
There were only about half a dozen cuts between
the man arid .the last, with splendid axemanship
all round.
Many good judges believe that in J. H.
Kirkwood Australia has the world’s best golfer, if .
so, the world will soon know it. A more ambitious
golfer never swung a club, and it is practically
certain that Kirkwood will go to England this year
or next in search of the open championship; 11 is
scores are so uniformly good that he must have at,
least a fair chance in any- company. Fred Findlay,
the ‘Melbourne pro., who was recently in England
and played with Ray, Duncan‘and Mitchell, thinks
that Kirkwood is showing more consistent golf than
anyone in England, and can be just as brilliant on
his day.
The S. Aus. Government has announced
suddenly that it means to legislate for a half-crown
tote on the flat. The complaints of one law for the
rich and another for the poor were too strong to ne
disregarded now that a firm attempt is being made
to enforce the law against all bookmaking. Curiously
enough, the small riot which occurred at Morphett-
ville on each day of the S.A. Derby meeting was
worst on the pavilion lawn. Members are so used to
betting on the nod, law or no law, that they were
both surprised and angry at (he new policy of Govern-
ment, police and magistrates ■to see the- old Act
really obeyed.
Frank Hewitt, who, with Bird' and
Topley, was brought to Melbourne by George Coppin,
and is now resident in Sydney, aged 78 years, sent,
the Prince a number of cuttings about his pedestrian
performances, and has received “a gracious' acknow-
ledgment.” Hewitt’s first races in Australia (1870)
were against J. G. Harris, a saddler, on Melbourne
Cricket Ground—lso, 200, 300 and 440 yards. Hewitt
won the 150yds. by a foot; in the 440yds. he fin-
ished alone ; the 300yds. was a dead heat, and Harris
won the 250yds. , Many of the spectators, including
the present writer, came away fancying they smelt
.something.
* * * *
The growing belief among N. S. Wales
punters-that the’ racing clubs should run two totali-
sators, one straight-out and the other place, is
strengthened by a recent example in Westralia,
where this system obtains. At the Perth “trots”
on October 9, Dinny Daly, winner of the Belmont
Handicap, returned each of his backers £5B 3s. for
10s. on the s.o. tote, and £lO 4s. for ss. on the
place tote. In other words, with 121 per cent, and
all fractions deducted, Dinny Daly’s price on the
machine was better than 115 to 1 5.0., and just on
40 to 1 (and this on the basis of a 33J per cent.
1 division) for a place. The .best quotation offered by
Tommy McShortodds, who only bets 5.0., was 10
to 1.
Conan Doyle, as author of that fine novel
of the prize-ring, “Rodney Stone,” ought to be
delighted with the latest spiritualistic news. A
London medium claims to have got in touch with
Belcher, Broughton, “Dutch Sam” and other leading
pugilists of a century back, and they have promised
to attend if he will hold an Old Sports’ stance in a
public hall. Tom Sayers is to represent a later
generation, and “we hope to get a couple of the
old-timers to materialise and give us an exhibition
spar. They tell us boxing is one of the sports
not only perriiitted but encouraged beyond the veil,
and pugilists who have ‘passed’ often have a friendly
set-to.” The unbeliever will have no ground left
to stand on when (and if) it comes to pass.
All sorts of allowances are made for gees
that run disappointingly when in good muscular con-
dition. Bad temper, bad position coming round the
turn, bad joCkeyship—any old argument is advanced
to explain a bad performance, whereas the possibility
of the unfortunate animal suffering from organic
trouble is rarely suggested. Horses may drop dead
on the training track, but nobody draws a moral
from such incidents. They are regarded as accidents.
So it is astonishing to read that the dire failure of
Aintree, a Victorian jumper, in a steeplechase at
- Randwick, was due tp heart attack. Pretty much
the same thing occurs to a flat racer once in a way.
A horse can get heart-strain without jumping fences.
When he nearly falls on his nose in a scrimmage and
recovers himself cleverly something is likely to go
wrong. But the animal can never express himself
clearly on the subject.
The Football League in Adelaide has
turned a practical eye on the complaint of the cen-
tral districts that they haven’t a hope with
the big residential suburbs, where new homes are
constantly -being built, while those in the city
proper are giving way to warehouse and factory.
So South Adelaide and AVest Adelaide clubs are to
recruit from sections carved out of Norwood (which
is Eist Torrens) and West Torrens and Sturt. The '
new rules read like the League of Nations trving to
fix a boundary between the Poles and the Czecho-
slovaks, and next winter a suburban player may
have to take counsel’s opinion before placing over
“that portion of territory.... rounded on the north
.... except that portion of territory bounded on the
west....” and so on. Roughly, however, Souths get
most of Parkside, Kent Town and Hackney, includ-
ing St. Peter’s and Prince Alfred Colleges ; and Wests
get. slices of Goodwood and Lockleys. Also the rising
seaside club, Glenelg, has got leave to cease being a
mere feeder for Sturt, and to run an A-grade team of
its own. -
: ‘Murkah”: Greyhounds run cunning in
many ways. On the enclosures the most common
trick is known as top-siding, and consists in an
effort to drive the hare. back down the ground by
keeping between her and the escapes. But it never
works, and only makes the hare’s job easier. Instead
of -having the dog charging in from behind she has .
him on the beam, where he is easier to watch. When
she wants to turn she just nips round behind him.
and an astonished doe- finds himself about 60 yards
to the bad. But he never learns the futility of top-
siding, and if he gets the habit might as well be
: sent to the rabbit pack. On the open, where the hare
runs all ways, top-siding is never learnt, and attempts
to short-circuit the hare on the turns is the favorite
dodge. It doesn’t meet with much success. The hare
invariably detects the move, and, instead of continuing
(say> a turn to-the left, twists sharplv to the right
and gets round past the dog. Theoretically a hare
should never be caught. But her trouble is that she
isn’t given two chances. A rolling stick or a hole in
the ground at a critical moment and—snap !
(Continued on page J/6.)


0
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
In less than six years more than five hundred
thousand Dodge Brothers Motor Cars have been
placed in the hands of owners.
If this sales record represented the appeal of a
price the total would not be particularly impressive.
The important thing is that the car is not thought
of in terms of price, but in terms of value.
How often you hear the car spoken of—and how
seldom the price! *
It is the quality of thought that surrounds it which
makes this success noteworthy.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
Dodge Brothers
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty.., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
Standardised Motors,
Sydney.
Limited,
Cheney Motor Co.j !Ltd
Adelaide.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency ([Queensland) Ltd.,
- Jtirisbane.
safeguard your health
J.Collis Grounds
CWorodyw
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in tiie Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COMC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE. RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
SOLD IN BOTTLES.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/S and 8/-.
Made in England.
f
A7*
*
A HAIRDRESSING
SALOON.
Perfect in
Equipment.
The finest in Sydney. Every
modern appointment, conveni-
ence and comfort.
Craig 8 Aitken’s Saloon Employs
Seven Expert Hairdressers —
men whose training and experi-
ence have been gained in the
best saloons of the world.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY will
find Craig and Aitken’s Saloon
conveniently near the Central
Railway Station —almost next
door to Anthony Horderns’.
Prompt Service Guaranteed.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR, here
illustrated, and for which
Craig and Aitken’s are Sole
Agents in Australia, is the Razor
we have used in our Saloon for
over 30 years.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
PRICE 12/6 POST FREE;
Pair in Double Case, 25/-
or
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
George hotel,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Acconunoilst'ion in Australia.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE:
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes t>£
Buildings, Stocks, FurnS-
ture.&c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
cm Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
Tlie “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
Consult Us!
On Water Supply
and Irrigation.
sdg
We have a Large 8 Varied Stock of Pumping Machinet j
Some Specialities of our own make are: —
Hercules Windmills. 1.8. C. Walking Beam Pumping
Plants.
Hercules Oil Engines. I.BIC. Centrifugal Pumps.
Hercules Boring Plants. Brass Artesian and Deep-
Well Pump Cylinders.
Syphon Windmill Pumps. Pump Rods; Drive Well
Points.
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, and Water-raising
Appliances of all kinds.
sd
We have also good stocks of Ball Valves, Foot Valves, Water Fittings; “National” Pipe,
Black, Galvanised and Steam; “National” Black and Galvanised Casing (the World's
Standard).
If
§
zj
Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd
Merchants, Engineers & Contractors.
418-424 ft 450-460 Ann Street
Brisbane.
nearby). Works: Yeerongpilly
T-U
Sound Methods Make a
Sound Market.
One thing has been made clearer than ever
this year.
The people who buy this car do so for sound
business reasons.
We know this by what they say, and by the
way they approach the purchase.
They represent the substantial class in their
own community and hold fixed ideals of
value.
Bilylng Dodge Brothers Car is, with them, a
matter of business; —because they seem
sure they will get more out of it.
It has c-o: e to be known as a substantial
car, and naturally that has attracted to
it substantial people.
When a man comes in to buy, he is thinking
of the freedom from annoyance he will
. enjoy in its ownership.
H 4 is thinking of the low petrol consumption
| and tLe high tyre mileage.
He is thinking of the satisfaction of having
a car that will never be out of service
; if he gives it ordinary attention.
He is thinking how much such a car will
contribute to his business fitness and
activity.
He is thinking how much he can expand his
‘ business effort, and how slight the cost
in comparison to the increased return.
If he were not so sure of the car, he might
not be so sure of the wisdom of the
investment.
But he knows that he can depend implicitly
upon the service it will deliver.
Sb there has grown up all over Australia a
' different sort of an attitude toward the
, purchase of Dodge Brothers Car.
It is a serious-minded attitude—one which
< reckons on results, and feels sure in
advance.
This is as it should be, and as Dodge
Brothers would have it.
Building motor-cars is, with them, a serious
business: —each and every Dodge
Brothers Car is worthy of the very
best they can give it.
They look upon every sale as a binding
business agreement to deliver certain
definite results to the buyer.
That this policy has attracted to this car
the substantial and serious-minded
I buyers of Australia is one more great
1 source of satisfaction to them.
B is further assurance, too, if such were
needed, that the quality of the car will
steadily grow higher.
Just on five hundred Dodge Brothers Cars
were delivered to buyers in New South
Wales by the Standardised Motors
Limited during the half-year ending 30th
June, 1920, and this is but a reflection
| of the estimation in which the car is
held throughout the Commonwealth.
If this sales record represented the appeal
\ of a price, the total would not be par-
ticularly impressive.
The important thing is that the car is not
thought of in terms of price, but in
terms of value.
How often you hear the car spoken of—
and how seldom the price!
It is the quality of thought that surrounds
it which makes this success noteworthy.
Because people think well of these cars it
: is still impossible for Dodge Brothers
to build enough of them.


m,
m,
m.
r m&
m
m
%
c®
DIGESTION: The Process of Assimilation of Food, whereby the body is nourished.
It is not the quantity of food we eat,
but what we digest and assimilate
that nourishes the body. When the
Stomach and Organs of Digestion and Nutrition are diseased,
and the food eaten is only imperfectly digested, there is loss
of nutrition, and the body loses strength as a natural conse-
quence. Not only does the system suffer from lack of
nourishment, but the derangement of the organs must
inevitably cause further complications. Indigestion is a most
prevalent source of Constipation, which in its turn causes a
disordered liver, and finally you become burdened with Chronic
Dyspepsia. Indigestion invariably arises from improperly
prepared food, hasty eating, over-indulgence, fatigue and
exhaustion during hot weather, breathing foul air, excessive
brain work, and more frequently from cares and worry, which
exhaust the nervous force and weaken the organs of digestion.
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS are a safe, sure and reliable
remedy for stomach complaints. They aid in the digestion and assimilation
of food, and in a mild and gentle manner regulate the system, restoring the
weak and dyspeptic to health and strength. They give you clean bowels, a
healthy stomach, a lively liver, active kidneys and blood that is rich and red.
R
Morses
D
mW^B^^F^TCFP
the
FOR
%^//////////^
Pills
They Make You Feel Brighter.


r
y
r
Cl
lr
7
v
&S 5
S^eS
sSo
»
fa
o
®5
$5
$
ft*
u
«
£
s
N
Influenza
No one who has not
had influenza can realise
the physical and mental
suffering it causes or
how it defies treatment.
I know of nothing that
will give such prompt
relief as Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy.
When it is taken the
pain in the chest quickly
disappears. The fever
subsides. The whole
body becomes more
comfortable.
The after-effects of
influenza are often more
distressing than the
disease itself.
They can be avoided
if you use Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy.
The greatest. danger
from influenza is pneu-
monia.
However, I have never
known a single case to
result in it when Cham-
berlain’s Cough Remedy
was freely given.
The persistent cough
which so frequently
follows influenza can be
promptly relieved by
Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy.
Give Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy when the
cough first appears and
do not let it run on until
it becomes chronic.
Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy keeps the throat
and air passages healthy.
tyjausvx Jvx JfaJtK -
©Ela I?T(3
COUGH REMEDY #
Cranny Chamberlain
(copyrighted.)
Fans, Blowers & Exhausters
for every industrial need!
Cast-Iron Blower and Exhauster
For supplying blast to furnaces, and to forge fires
up to 4oz. pressure. Will blow coal-dust to rotary
kilns. Can be installed as exhauster for removing
gritty dust, etc., from grinding machines, tumblers,
etc., also for pumping out smoke, dust, steam and
impure air from all factory and workshop interiors.
Discharge can be set at eight different angles. Bear-
ings, ring-oiling and self-aligning.
Steel-Plate Exhaust Fan.
A well-known type that offers exceptional efficiency
and reliability on all classes of machinery exhausting,
and for clearing interiors of smoke, dust and steam,
etc.
The Special Design and Proportions of these fans
make their capacity equal to larger sizes of other
makes. Bearings, ring-oiling and self-aligning.
Catalogues giving details of capacity and the application of the Blowers and Exhausters
which we stock will be mailed on request. Send your inquiries for Mine Ventilating Fans,
Mechanical Draft Equipment, Heating and Cooling Systems.
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney), Ltd., 115 Clarence Street, SYDNEY; (Melbourne) Pty., Ltd., 499-501 Bourke
Street, Melbourne; and Darling Building, Adelaide. Selling Agents: J. R. W. Gardam,
Perth; and Chas. E. Bernays, 125 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
8.923
A Porpoise-drive in the Solomons.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN the grey dawn of the early morning
we drifted along the noisy surf-thrashed
barrier into the village of Arara. The
people were greatly excited ; one after another
they ran to the edge of the jagged coral-reef
and hurled something into the breakers. The
village chief had been my cook-boy at Bunda-
berg in the days of the old sugar-growing
Kanaka; on the death of his father he by
right of birth became chief. I went ashore
and my welcome was complete. Rako (or
Davie, as he was called in Queensland)
brought all his tribe to look on the face of his
one-time master in the country where food
was good and the “bullamacow plenty.”
“What’s the matter?” I asked. “Altogether
boy he run about throw something along-a
sea ?”
Rako told me. They were about to hunt
the porpoise—the medicine-man had spoken.
And it was the custom of their tribe that
every vestige of fish in the village, whether in
the houses or rotting in the rubbish heaps,
should be cast into the sea, or the devil-devil
would rise in anger and cause the sea-pigs to
go deep down where neither the clicking of
the shells nor the beating of the paddles
could be heard.
The medicine-man squatted and chanted,
his lithe body swaying to the rhythm. The
sun was rising over a low bank of clouds,
lighting up our schooner as she rocked on
the long oily swell of the Pacific. Away to
westward hill lifted beyond hill until they
grew into a sunlit mountain, tree-covered,
eight thousand feet above the sea. The
medicine-man rose and pointed ; he did not
speak, but stood silent as a statue, his hand
outstretched. In the direction of the hand
the sea-pigs could be seen as the younger fish
of the school leapt clear of the water, now
and then turning somersaults and sending up
showers of sunlit spray as they fell flat. The
excitement in the village grew; only the
medicine-man retained his pose of a statue
pointing seaward. The young men ran to the
low palm-thatched canoe-houses and carried
forth the long shell-decorated canoes; twirl-
ing their paddles they danced in exuberance
of spirit. The-sandy river-mouth lay a little
to eastward, where, ringing like a mob of
scrub-bred cattle, the sea-pigs made the
water boil a good two miles from shore. The
canoes were launched, from the one-man to
the forty; paddles inlaid with mother-of-pearl
and tortoise shell glittered in the sun. Rako
invited me into his war-canoe.
The medicine-man had ceased to point sea-
ward. He was seated in the next-biggest
canoe to the chief’s, his position the middle
of the fleet. Standing up he chanted again,
and the paddles of thirty canoes dipped as
one. Swiftly they flew out between the
fish and deep water, and took up a half-moon
formation. Then the clicking of shells and
the beating of paddles began. Swaying to the
paddles and glittering with sweat the natives
drove towards the now-restless sea-pigs. This
way and that way turned the school; but
ever a clicking shell or a beating paddle was
ahead, and nearer and nearer they drew to-
wards the river mouth.
The natives being winded, a halt was called
by the medicine-man, who all the time talked
to his devil and kept him so interested that
he would forget to suggest to the sija-pigs to
seize the chance and break througn to sea.
Then paddles were dipped again; faster and'
faster they were plied ; again and again the
porpoises came up almost to the canoe prows
and again went riverwards. The young fish
ceased their sporting; instinct told them
something was wrong—they knew not what.
They just dived about, half mesmerised, while
ever the river-mouth grew nearer. The pot
of excitement well-nigh boiled over. Natives
at the paddles shouted and yelled; Marys on
the reefs shrilled encouragement; drums were
beaten by the old men. Five of the fish ran
themselves high and dry on the sand and
quivered out life in the broiling sun. The
others disappeared.
Turning to Rako I asked: “Nother-fellow
porpoise me-fellow lose him—he go along sea
finish ?”
“No more,” laughed Rako. “Head belong
him he go along soft sand along bottom. He
stand along head all same piccaninny time
he play along capset [turn somersault].”
Like a kingfisher' from a stump went a
native from one of the canoes and returned
with a black carcase in his arms, rescued
from the soft silt of the shallow river.
The sun was low in the west when the
natives gave up their search for smothered
porpoises. Seventy lay on the sand side by
side, all save five pulled from the silt. Tim
women were bringing in loads of firewood
carried on their backs, with a band across
the brow. Young boys were carrying banana
leaves; old men squatted by the fish, chewing
betel-nut and grunting their approval; old
women cut up the catch; and savage sharks,
with gaff-topsails set, tacked up and down the
beach waiting for the offal. The young men
of the tribe sang as they hauled the canoes
into the sheds, and the drums beat the glad
news that a catch was landed. Natives from
neighboring villages came to barter: the
women loaded down with yams, taro, sweet
potato and betel-nut; the men sauntering with
spear or empty Snider. The fires for the
cooking were lit; the sea-pigs were cut up
and spread out on banana-leaves; children
played with decorated dance-sticks or shook
nutshells on their ankles.
The blazing cooking-fires threw weird
shadows on the palm-leaf huts. The medicine-
man rose. All were silent. “Listen.” he said,
“to the voice of the wise one. Did I not go
forth among the enemies of your fathers
and gather the herbs beloved of our devil
that he might be appeased, so he would send
fish in plenty to the shores of my children?
Great is our chief Rako, but wise is
Attunga !”
A canoe paddled by Rako took me out to
the schooner. As I bade him good-bye he
asked: “You gotem this fella medicine belong
makem dingo die?”
“What you want it for?” I asked.
“Oh, this fella medicine-man Attunga he
savvy more along make devil give fish,”
answered my friend; and then I knew that
kings have their troubles in the Solomons
too.
WEE BOBBIE.


Endorsed by
over 250.000
The Farm Engine with
the Seal of 100% Quality
the work —pumping, sawing, grinding, or any
" of the many jobs on the farm —you want it done at lowest
cost. As a buyer of farm equipment you know that this “cost”
does not stop with first cost. It includes the money you spend
to keep the engine running—for fuel —labor—repairs—upkeep.
What you get for this money in work done determines whether
or not you are obtaining your power at lowest cost. The
Fairbanks-Morse Z Engine
is the logical engine for you to use, because it combines every
practical advantage to do your work continuously—conveniently
—economically—cleanly—quietly.
CONTINUOUSLY—because the reliability of the “Z” will stand long runs of
hard work.
CONVENIENTLY—because the Oscillating Magneto ignition system of the “Z”
makes it easy to start, and the rest of the “Z” FOOLPROOF construction
makes it no trouble to run.
ECONOMICALLY—because all sizes of “Z” engines run successfully on
KEROSENE.
CLEANLY—because the “Z” is specially designed as a cheap-fuel engine and
doesn’t mess up the plugs and valves every time it is used.
QUIETLY —because the Throttling Governor ensures a smooth, even beat at
all loads.
In short the “Z” is a quality Farm-Engine, and the reputation of the manufac-
turers is behind it when they give it their seal of 100 per cent. Quality.
It will pay you to get in touch with the nearest of the following “Z” Engine
Agents, who will give you fuller particulars:—
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD., 9-13 Young Street, Sydney.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., 99 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
J. BARTRAM & SON PTY. LTD., 586-588 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
MALLOCH BROS., 50-54 William Street, Perth.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD., Hobart and Launceston.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Steve Hart”: There ought to be an
opening for some disabled Digger in utilising
Burrawang nuts. They make splendid match-
boxes; every N. S. Wales coast bushman
carries one, mostly of his own manufacture.
They are light as a feather, hold 50 matches,
and with a little mounting look well. The
nuts can be got for the picking and by the
million or so.
* * * *
“Ragar” : Met a weird outfit camped and
busy just outside Rockhampton (Q.). It
consisted of one man, one cart, one horse,
one dog and one big iron saucepan, all the
worse for wear. The man told me he was
making a good thing out of the old fruit,
jam, fish and meat tins which decorate the
landscape up in those parts. I looked into
the saucepan on the fire, and found that he
was cooking the old tins for the solder. He’d
got his mong. trained to nose out the heaps
of empty tins, the horse dragged the cart and
the cart carried the treasure, so everything
helped in making the £2 a day which he said
he averaged.
Another new industry started here by the
high cost of the imported article is the new-
old reversible carpet business. A little
factory in Ftzroy (Vic.) is just now as full
of orders as it has room for. It takes your
old carpet, cuts it up, sterilises it. teases it,
combs it and weaves it into a fresh, new
rug or square, one-third the size of the old
one, twice the thickness and one-third the
price of a similar imported article. Some-
one has suggested having the carpets in the
Legislative Chambers thus renewed ; but these
carpets are all right. It is the politicians
who ought to be sent to the boiling-down
and remodelling factory.
“Vista”: Many of those wonderful white
temples of Asia which are casually alluded to
as “marble” palaces are something quitq
different. The shell of the giant clam, often
weighing several hundredweights, is the
purest white. Some 70 to 80 years ago
there was almost as much diving done
for clam-shell as there was for M.O.P. The
big fellows were made fast below to a rope,
cut clear from their base on the rock and
hauled up. The shells thus procured were after-
wards ground up to powder, mixed with
cement or coral lime, and then painted on to
stone walls and columns of the buildings. The
result after several coats was an effect like
ivory, which had the advantage of protecting
the soft stone beneath it. For the last 50 years
or so the industry has been dead as far as the
Easterns are concerned. But what about coat-
ing some of our own public buildings with
the mixture? It’s cheap enough; the clam-
shells are lying around our coasts by the
ton, and a waterproof beautifier that’s cheap
is worth thinking about these days.
* * * *
“McNorth”: I think Malay Bay, Port
Essington (N.T.), has the finest natural
oyster-beds in Australia. From the edge of
the beach to right out as far as the low tide
extends the ground is covered with the bi-
valves. Many of them are larger than would
be thought possible in the South—so large
that the ordinary oyster-knife is a futile
weapon with which to attack them, and a
tomahawk is necessary; but they are not a
bit rank, for all that. Distance from mar-
ket is the reason these beds lie untouched
save by wandering natives from year to year.
The nearest port is Darwin, about 100 miles
away, with nothing but uninhabited country
and poorly-charted sea in between. Attempts
have been made at sun-drying this fruit of
the sea that can be had for the picking up,
and good prices were obtained ; but for some
reason or other the ventures were abandoned.
Perhaps the discouragement that is so per-
sistently offered to Northern Territory in-
dustries by vote-seeking Governments’ and
short-sighted Labor agitators had something
to do with it.
* * * *
“Boro-Belle”: The islands on the Queens-
land coast between Mackay and Bowen are
being rapidly taken up and stocked with
sheep, and now, following the success achieved
on St. Bee’s and Keswick, 15 miles off Mac-
kay, Bussutin Bros, are stocking Brampton
Island, in the immediate vicinity, with sheep
and horses. At one time spear-grass spoiled
the sheep’s overcoats, but the Bussutins—
two resourceful Maltese farmers who pre-
viously made a big success of cane-growing
at Prosperine—wiped out that curse and now
have a flock of over 7000. These islands
are from seven to 12 square miles each, and
have splendid natural springs and a liberal
rainfall. Excellent potatoes have been pro-
duced on Keswick and Brampton, a hungry
market for which is open at Mackay, where
cane-growing is exclusively followed, not
even butter being produced locally. An up-
to-date butter factory had to be converted
into two dwelling-houses to save it from being
knocked to pieces by tramps.
“Mid-Channel”: A Dago fish merchant,
who was indebted to a bankrupt estate, was
called up on the ’phone by the Official
Assignee and reminded of the fact. Not
being clear as to who was at the other end,
Oysteropulous asked who was speaking.
“This Mr. Schedule. Official Assignee.”
“ ’Oo?” “Mr. Schedule, Official Assignee.”
“What sorta da fish?” asked our gallant
ally.
South Aus. farmers have got weight-
guessing down to a fine art. Syd Kidman
always gives a fat bullock, at the Adelaide
Show, to the Minda Home for Weakminded
Children. The sale of the beast and the
shilling paid for guessing its weight all go
to the fund. This year it scaled 12101 b., and
four country visitors got the exact figure.
“Tarwin”: The professionals who play
cards on trains are using a new one. After
a spirited argument over the right to a seat,
two of the fraternity will become sufficiently
friendly to indulge in a modest effort at
poker. Should the usual mug join in, he is
allowed to win almost every hand. Next he
finds himself holding the best hand in the
pack, and immediately starts looking for big
money. The stakes soon get too high for
one of the smart coves, who drops out of the
game, and at the other’s suggestion acts as
stakeholder. Within the next few minutes
the train pulls up at a station, and the
stakeholder discovers an old pal on the
platform. With a cheery “Hello, Bill!” he
darts out. That’s where the curtain falls.
“Dolphin” : When it comes to carrying sail
no old-time deep-sea skipper could look
down on the masters of some of the topsail
schooners that carry timber and other truck
from Tasmania to mainland ports, and some-
times run as far as Maoriland. These craft
are heavily-sparred for their size and build,
and the captains crack on sail without
worrying overmuch about the weather. One
of the hardest drivers amongst the skippers
is H. Heather, who runs, or used to run,
the schooner Rooganah for Jones and Co.
It took a lot to make him shorten sail. The
Heathers were brought up in a hard school,
though; they were reared at Port Davey, in
the south-west of the island, where it mostly
blows a gale and rains at the same time.
There is no one at Port Davey now, but in
those days a lot of pine-cutting went on
there.
* * * *
From a southern laboratory—
There is little reason to doubt, according to Rus-
sell Grimwade, of Felton and Grimwade, that chem-
ists will before long solve the problem of making
synthetic alcohol. When they do the places that
have cheap power will have a tremendous pull in
regard to liquid fuel, which is the fuel of the future.
The question looks simple enough. From carbide
of calcium, made of lime and charcoal, you get. by
applying water, acetylene, the chemical symbol for
which is C2H2. By adding hydrogen to that you
ought to obtain ethylene (C2H4). Then put a little
water (H2O) in it and the result is alcohol
(C2H6O). So far there’s a catch about the tran-
sition from acetylene to ethylene, but there are
good brains working on it, and probably they will
succeed in solving the problem from the technical
side. Then will come the question of making com-
mercial use of the discovery, and turning out indus-
trial alcohol in large quantities and cheaply. The
hydrogen could be obtained by the electrolysis of
water, and that is where cheap power would be
needed. It is one more reason (and there were 1000
good ones already) why Victoria should push on
with her brown-coal development and why also she
and the other States should make use of the water-
power now running to waste. Vic. and N. S. Wales
between them could develop, without looking very
far, several hundreds of thousands of horse-power
from their rivers. The other things needed—water,
limestone and charcoal—are fairly common.
“Zanthus”: The latest suggestion in the
application of science to industry is to turn
the blowfly into a source of profit. The
credit of the idea, which I will form a com-
pany to exploit as soon as I get a little
spare time, is due to Ewen Mackinnon, 8.A.,
B.Sc., who points out that in their search
for fats during the war the Germans con-
verted the larvae of blowflies, bred in fish
waste, into a source of oil, as much as 44
per cent, by weight being extracted. There
are possibilities in the thing. Nowadays
stock that die in a drought are a dead loss.
In imagination I can see the drought-stricken
squatter becoming a Tyson or a McCaugkey
by selling blowflies at so much a hundred.
* * * *
“Hawkesbury”: All along our creeks we
have a timber to beat the band for tool-
handles —superior in lightness and flexibility
even to the hickory we could once
import. It is the water-gum. Unfortunately
it seldom runs straight for more than three
feet; but few handles want more length than
that. Saw off, soak in water for a week,
season in the shade/ divide and turn on the
lathe, and you have a handle that you can’t
break if you try. There is wood here to
supply all the axe-handles of Australia, and
at half present prices the industry should
pay handsomely. And why not the axe-
heads, too? It is only skilled handwork, the
welding of a piece of steel to soft iron. Why
pay the Yank smith fancy wages for what
we could do ourselves? ,
* * * *
“W.A.T.”: I got it in answer to an advt.:
Dear Sir and Brother, —Just a few words received
this morning Herald avertised for a thorally Chef
and 1 just thoute writing down a few lines arid aska
you if is any vacance oppourtunite that you can let
us now souner or letter. I have been owt to work
for some time and have no money, First Class man
Chef 8 years New South Wales expirians relebly and
ably for your inconvenience and I suppose you will-
ing to do so. I have many a references to Certify
you during the 8 years I have been a first class man
for your money it is in possible to get a Better man
in the city Christian Greek Real Europian or from
America. —Believe me, always fraternally, .
BARTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“New dreams for old,” cried the peddler who
Came down our street when the sky was blue;
“Who wants new dreams from my deep brown sack?
Bring out your old dreams, Jill and Jack!”
At the call came hurrying Jack and Jill,
Weary of dreams that had ceased to thrill;
Eager to part with their dreams long cold,
Hungry to buy new dreams with old.
His eyes were sharp and his hands were lean,
His beard was black and his wits were keen ;
He traded there in our long, dull street,
And he garnered dreams that had lost their heat.
For youth he bartered love, success ;
Fpr love, brave glory, pride and stress;
For a gleam of eyes and a diist of lips
He gave them dreams of the seas and ships.
For each and all he had brand-new dreams,
Brand-new hopes and brand-new schemes,
Gleaming plans for the dawning day
To take the place of the dreams turned grey.
But I stood aside and I watched him well,
This peddle)', Life, with his dreams to sell,
And it seemed to me that he gave them back
Each other’s dreams from his deep brown sack!
And it seemed to me that the best he kept;
It seemed to me that the traders wept
When they found a new dream much the same
As the one they'd sold as a burnt-out flame !
So I kept my dreams and I said him Nay
When he asked, “Any nice new dreams to-day?”
For Life the peddler has dreams’ measure.
And the oldest dream is the greatest treasure!
VICTORIA.
CUTHBERT CUTPURSE.


FITTINGS
BUILD THE PERFECT BICYCLE
Ml
m
r
7$
y
B.S.A. FITTINGS arc
Guaranteed Interchangeable.
Exact replacements of any part can
be obtained. Don’t be put off with
“pattern fittings,” but look for the
B.S.A. TRADE MARKS ON EVERY
PART. They are your guarantee.
Truest Economy.
It’s the truest economy to ride a genuine
B.S.A. Bicycle. Besides saving you
time and money and being a source of
pleasure you are certain of years of
cycling, free from trouble and at little
expense. You can compare a genuine
B.S.A. Bicycle by every possible test
with a so-called “cheap” bicycle, and
you will readily understand why a
B.S.A. is the cheapest machine in the
end. For easy, smooth running it is
unrivalled, while B.S.A. reliability and
long service are proved by the fact that
thousands of cyclists in all parts of
the world ride only B.S.A. Bicycles.
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.'
j ...
Send for B.S.A. Handbook
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
B.S.A. TRADE MARKS
These Trade Marks are your safeguard. See
that your bicycle carries the “Three Piled Rifles ’
and the letters B.S.A. They are a guarantee of
highest quality, material, workmanship and finish
TRADEMARKS
B.S.A. REPUTATION
During the Great War the B.S.A. reputation
has been more than justified by the remarkable
service which thousands of B.S.A. Bicycles gave
under the exhaustive conditions of modern warfare


Warns Women Against
Use of Soap on Hair.
Nearly all soaps and ready-mixed shampoos
—even the most expensive—contain too much
alkali, which is dangerous, as it dries the
scalp and makes the hair brittle.
Keally the most elegant and safe thing to
use is ordinary colinated cocoanut oil (a pure,
saponified but quite greaseless liquid), which
is not at all expensive—but is far, far better
than soaps or other scalp-injurious things.
Every chemist keeps a supply of this, and a
few ounces last you and mother, sisters and
brothers for months. Just wet the hair with
water and rub it through—thoroughly. One
or two teaspoonsful is plenty to create a big
quantity of rich, heavy, creamy lather. It
cleanses delightfully and rinses out easily.
The hair dries quickly and easily, and comes
out brilliant, soft, fluffy, wavy and fresh as a
daisy, looking much thicker than it actually
is.
Best of all, this colinated cocoanut oil
leaves the hair as easy to dress again as
though you hadn’t washed it at all. And yet
i,t loosens and carries off every bit of excess
oiliness, dust, dirt or dandruff scurf.
IMPORTANT. —Do not confuse colinated cocoanut
oil with cheaper sticky, emulsified cocoanui oils
or other substitutes. There is only one genuine
colinated cocoanut oil, as recommended above.
Lift that Corn Off with the Finger-tips.
Just a few drops of this New Ether Drug, and Corns or
Callouses Loosen So They Lift Right Off.
V
%
nr
This is a wonderfully simple
and easy way to gain freedom
from your pestering corns and
callouses. Touch a few drops
of Frozol-Ice right on to the
heart of a sensitive, pain-
throbbing corn, or over a
tough, sore callous. It dries
at once. Tlie ache
vanishes as if into
thin air. The corn or
callous next starts to
shrivel and wither up.
and soon it can be peeled
off with the finger-tips.
You’ll get enthusiastic about
lS 5
right quickly. It never inflames nor even
irritates good, healthy flesh surrounding a
corn. You feel not a single twinge of
pain in using Frozol-Ice, nor afterwards.
Girls, and men too. who wear fashionable
footwear, will hail Frozol-Ice with delight.
Save a corner on your dressing-table for
Frozol-Ice, and never let corns torture you
again.
True Frozol-Ice is obtainable from all
live chemists. The genuine product can
always be identified by the name “Frozol-
Ice” on the green, printed carton contain-
ing bottle, with glass-rod dropper.
ASK FOR FROZOL-ICE AT
CHEMISTS.
Why Physicians
Advise Magnesia
For Acid Indigestion.
Thousands of people whose stomachs
troubled them after eating have found that bv
taking a teaspoonful of pure Salix Magnesia
in a half-glass of hot water after meals thev
can do away with pepsin pills and other
digestive aids, and can still be able to eat
heartily of whatever foods they please, and
have no stomach trouble afterwards. Phvsi-
cians say that hot water forces a much
needed blood supply to the stomach, while
Salix Magnesia is undoubtedly the best, safest
and most powerful neutraliser of stomach
acids that can be found. A single teaspoonful
will sweeten the food contents of a sour, acid,
burning stomach in five minutes by the watch,
and natural digestion will follow without pain
or uncomfortable feeling of any kind. Con-
tinued use of Salix Magnesia does not
weaken natural digestion, and it is perfectly
safe to use at any time. It can be had at
almost any chemist’s (in powder or com-
pressed tablets form), but be sure it is Salix
Magnesia you are getting. Do not use other
forms of magnesia for this purpose.
Blood Tides.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DEAD was he upon the sand,
Dead by stroke of my red hand.
Wherefore I would sail the sea
Far and far from memory.
Dead was he whose traitor blow
First was aimed to work me woe.
Rightly had I struck and slain —
Failed the triumph, lived the pain.
Thrice the moon went up the sky,
Thrice I watched with unshut eye
Day that sought the arms of night,
Darkness fainting into light.
Four times crept the moon on high ;
Sleep had closed a leaden eye;
All the night till break of day
My red dream was hot to slay.
Rose the wind at morning shine.
Bring me cup and bring me wine!
Let the great seas roar their fill;
Wine is good as blood to spill.
All the day and all the night
Seas were loud and waves were white;
And I saw the dead man stand
Calling vengeance from the land.
In we came at break of morn,
Blown before the tempest’s scorn.
Broke the ship in pieces twain;
Loud waves dragged me to the slain.
On the yellow sand I lay
At the rising of the day—
I, who wrought the guilty deed,
Tossed alive among the weed.
Came the dead man slowly by,
Saw me with his vengeful eye,
Raised me, fed me, took me hence
Full of shame and penitence.
Thrice the sun went up the sky,
Thrice I slept with heavy eye;
When the fourth red morning broke
He whose kindness shamed me spoke:
“You with fingers hot to slay,
Strong you are for death this day ;
Strong am I in hate to see
Who can hold the mastery.”
Swiftly in the red of dawp,
Curses said, the dirks were drawn ;
Hard, by stroke of my red, hand,
Died he on the trampled sand.
Far and far I sailed the sea
Seeking ease of memory;
Four days out and four days in,
Vengeance called to murder sin.
Ever from the tireless wave
Death to life a breathing gave;
Ever by my hot, red hand
Death must die on morning sand-
Weary of the strife am I:
Fain in grave-mould would I lie.
Fain were he for rest of pain
If the grave could hold the slain.
Dead is he upon the sand.
Dead by stroke of m.v red hand ;
Yet the memory of blood
Lives and moves at ebb aqd flood.
Evermore has vengeance lied
On the shore and on the tide....
I am he who first began
Red and righteous tear with man.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Principle of Archimedes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A SHRILL scream of mortal fear rent
the air, and the wild, dishevelled
figure of a short, fat man propelled
itself from out the doorway of Billet No. 10.
“Au secours!” it screamed again, and headed
for the Cafe Coeur D’Or, across the village
street, shedding water at every step.
“Streuth !” gasped someone. “That’s
Fatty Arbuckle! Somethin’s scared him
bad to make him develop a turn of speed.
C’on, let’s see what’s doin’.”
By the time the cafe was reached the
wildest rumors were being circulated
amongst the crowd outside the door through
which Fatty had disappeared.
Inside the little room off the bar had
been seated the officers of the battalion and
the official interpreter listening to an infor-
mal lecture by the Colonel on “The Conduct
of Troops in Villages Out Resting.”
The C.O. was just warming up to his sub-
ject when the first fearful scream caused
him to bite a sentence in halves and brought
all to their feet.
“God bless my mildewed soul, what’s
that?” ejaculated the adjutant, as another
scream for help smote their ears. Before
anyone could reply, through the doorway, as
if shot from a mortar, a naked ball of fat
threw himself into the arms of the French
interpreter, who happened to be standing
nearest the door. The C.O. almost shrivelled
him with a glare, and rasped impatiently
to the interpreter, “ What the devil is all
this?” The interpreter, having successfully
broken a neck-hold, replied excitedly, “He
keeps on repeating that some of your sol-
diers tried to murder him.”
In spite of the fact that the art of kill-
ing was part of the business of those pre-
sent, the word “murder” jarred unpleasantly.
“What!” thundered the Colonel; then, get-
ting control of himself, he said, quietly,
“Get him to tell his story.” The civilian
was given a glass of cognac and the table-
cover to hide his nakedness, and after an
excited duet in French, laid his complaint:
“My name is Jaques Hirondelle. I live
with madame, my sister, across the street.
I am too fat to work, so I mind the house,
whilst my sister works in the fields. If the
good Lord makes me too fat, I must not
complain. I do not like Australians. They
are brigands. They mock me and jest at
my fatness.- They make noises in then-
noses, and name me Fig and Fatty Arbuckle.
They insult me by digging fingers into me
and saying ‘ Beaucoup , bullybif.’ To-day,
whilst I am minding the house, two Austra-
lian soldiers asked if. I would have my bath
in front of them for 10 francs. I am very
poor—it is the war—-and it is not every
day one gets 10 francs for bathing. I said
‘Yes, but 10 francs in advance, because I
distrust Australians.’ At once one of them
handed me five francs, saying ‘Five now and
five after the bath,’ and hauled out the cask-
tub to bathe in. Then they got buckets and
filled the tub from the cistern. The tall one
said, ‘Strip!’ and I hesitated because I
have misgivings, but .1 thought of the other
five francs, and I stripped. ‘Get in,’ said
the tall one again, and I stepped in and
asked for the soap. ‘Never mind the soap,’
the same man said. ‘Sit down.’ I sat down
and the water was up to my shoulders and
slopped over the tub very much. Then the
two brigands spoke quickly in their own
tongue. I am tempted to rise and ask for
the soap again. I had just opened my mouth
to speak when the two men seized me by
the back of the neck and attempted to drown
me by shoving my head under the water. I
struggled, and by a miracle broke loose and
made my escape to you.”
“We must see into this at once,” said the
C.O. briskly. “Bring that man with you
and we shall cross over to Madame Hiron-
delle’s house and investigate.”
The frown on the Colonel’s forehead deep-
ened at the sight of the crowd, which, how-
ever, quickly made way and then closed
in behind and followed the procession across
to Billet No. 10. Into the kitchen strode
the C.O. followed by Fatty Arbuckle, the
interpreter and the officers. The crowd out-
side trickled through the street door, filling
the living room, which communicated with
the kitchen.
The Colonel’s eyes , quickly took in the
scene of the crime. The tub of water, the
wet track on the brick floor, the buckets
and, last but not least, “the twins,” who
rose unsteadily as the Colonel entered. “The
twins” were two men who, though disagree-
ing at every opportunity, were almost in-
separable. The taller of the pair, alias
Longun, had been a science student at the
Brisbane University before the war. The
other, Bluey, had been a yardman in a
country hotel in Western Queensland. He
was almost as illiterate as his mate was
educated. They dossed together, drank to-
gether, took their turn in the line together,
and not infrequently struck trouble together. ;
The C.O. grimly recognised the pair.
“Are these the two men who attempted
to murder you ?” he asked, indicating them
with a wave of his hand.
A stream of ouis and excitable French
showed that the Frenchman understood the
gesture even if he didn’t understand the
language.
“Wha’ rot!” murmured Longun thickly.
The C. 0., wishing to make sure of his
ground before taking drastic measures, asked
for an explanation. As usual in times of
trouble. Bluey became chief spokesman for
the defence.
“It’s like this, sir,” he began. “It all started
over me wishing I could weigh myself to see
how much I’d lost since I been livin’ on
army tucker. ‘Well, why don’t yer?’ says
Longun. ‘Becos there ain't any scales
except the little ones o’ Madame’s,’ says I.
‘Don’t need ’em.’ he says. ‘Apply the prin-
ciple of Archie Medy.’ I said ‘Rats! Talk
sense!” ‘Why,’ Longun says, ‘I cud weigh
even Fatty Arbuckle if I wanted to.’
‘Betcha a bottle er booze yer couldn’t,' I
comes back at ’im. So after a bit er an
argument, we comes back to Fatty’s place
ter settle it. Longun tells ’ow lie’s goin’
ter do it. We was ter full a tub er water
and make Fatty get in and weigh what slops
over. ‘How can yer weigh what slops over?’
I says. ‘Easy,’ he says. ‘.Test measure by
the bucket ’ow much it takes ter fill ’er up
as-ain after Fatty gets out. Then weigh a
bucket er water and calcerlate how much
by the number of buckets. Longun can
spruik the lingo, so he kids Fatty to get
inter the tub after we fills it. We gives
Fatty five ‘frogs’ fer a start, an’ promised
’im ernother five after he’d done ’is job.”
“But he says you deliberately tried to
drown him by shoving his head under,” in-
terjected the C.O.
“We didn’t try ter drown ’im, sir,” said
Bluey, scornfully. “When Fatty sat down
in the tub, ’e was ’ead and shoulders out er
the water. ‘Must ’ave ’is ’ead under for a
jiff.’ says Longun, ‘or we’ll be that much
out in his weight.’ But Fatty was er bit
pigheaded erbout it, sir, an’ we had to help
him get it under. Then Fatty cleared out
and we was just calcerlatin’ up ’is weight
when you come in. sir.”
The C.O. had come to his decision as
Bluey finished speaking. “Gentlemen,” he
said, moving towards the door, “I think
M’sieur Hirondelle has exaggerated slightly.
We will return to the Cdeur D’Or.”
At the doorway he turned to “the twins.”
“You might as well give that man the five
francs you owe him,” he said with a grin in
his eye. “And, in the future, it would be
advisable to exclude civilians and confine
your experiments in mechanics to your-
selves.”
MOOL BOEL.
A High Old Time at Buckingham
Palace.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I READ in a Sunday paper the other day
that the King has soup at five bob
a plate. But, by cripes, none of it
was served out when I fed at Buckingham
Palace. I don’t think I ever told you about
that.
You know, when they started on the Aus-
tralian Navy in earnest they sent 42 of us
to England to qualify for higher gunnery
and torpedo ratings. When we had finished
up and were ready to come home again, jolly
King Ned thought he’d like to see us before
we left. We were all sent to Portsmouth
Barracks the day before we were to go and
see him. and had to muster our kits. I
don’t know what that was for, unless they
thought we wouldn’t be able to look a king
in the clear blue eye if we were not in pos-
session of a complete kit.
In the morning one of the officers, who
was to be in charge of us, had the bunch
mustered. He didn’t seem to go much on
his job. He found fault with pretty well
everybody’s clothes. One man had the tapes
that ornament the collar too close together.
Another had used three rows of stitching
instead of two to sew the jean on the collar
of his flannel. How sad it would have been
for the King to see needlework like that!
Then the Bloke caught sight of a pair of
trousers. “Corporal!” he said, “get me a
tape-measure.”
The corporal got one.
“Measure that man’s trousers.”
“Twenty-five and a quarter inches, sir.”
“Are they uniform pattern?”
“No, sir; one and a quarter inches too
wide.”
“Tell the ship’s steward to serve out a
new suit to this man.”
Bob Wade, who inhabited the trousers,
reckoned this was the limit, and said so.
“What do you mean?” said the Bloke.
“Well, sir,” said Bob, “this is a new
suit, and it’s the first time I’ve had it on,
and I won’t take a suit from -the steward.”
The Bloke was so surprised that he
couldn’t speak for a while, but when he did
get his jaw working again the first thing
he said was: “Corporal, call up the guard
and have this man put in the guard-room.”
The guard was called, and Bob was
marched off. The measuring went on.
We all felt pretty sadj as we’d got new
rigouts for the occasion ; but thei’e were only
two more whose round-the-’ouses exceeded
the width-limit. As they said they weren't
going to pay for new suits they didn’t want,
the guard took charge of them as well. ,
After the Bloke had uttered some heart-
wliispers at us, in which he said we were
the most untidy and unseamanlike lot he
had ever seen, h'g told the corporal to march
us over to tjie barber’s shop. The three
offenders were also marched over by the
guard. When we got in view of the barber,
the Bloke gave orders that we were all to
have our hair cut uniform pattern (which
was one inch long in front and close all
round), and that the ship’s corporal was
to stand there and see it done. Things
were beginning to look serious. Bob was
the first to take the chair. “Look here,” lie
said, “if you cut my hair short, you cow, I’ll
kill you!”
The barber looked a bit scared. “That’s
all right,” he said. “I’ll just trim it up
a bit.”
If you had measured the hair that was
taken off the lot of us and added it together
I don’t think you could have made two
inches.
As the three criminals still refused to
pick up new suits, they were put in cells,
and the rest of us were marched off to
the railway station. When we got to Lon-
don we made our way to Whitehall, where
“My Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty”
had a look at, us. Old Fawkes was there,
too. You know, the one who was Admiral
out here. He’s not a bad sort, although
he did like plenty of salutes.
One decent thing I remember about him.
He was inspecting the Challenger, and in
looking over some of the kits he saw that
one man had white drill for the back of his
collar instead of check.
“Is this a new pattern?” he said.
“No, sir,” said the owner of the collar.
“I’ve never seen one like it before. Where
did you get it?”
“I made it out of an old drill jumper.”
The officer of the division looked as though
he expected an order to have the offender
strung up to the yardarm without the
option, but the old chap turned round and
said to the skipper: “I think that is a very
good idea. You might encourage the men
to use up their old clothes like that.”
He was so taken with the notion that he
didn’t look at another kit.
After old Fawkes had had a yarn with
us we had some dinner, and then marched
round to Buckingham Palace. When we got
there we were lined up and waited for Ned
to come out.
After a while he arrived with his missus,
and there was George, and his missus and
kids, and all the sisters, cousins and aunts.
Ned was very near the end then, and looked
it—a poor, tired old man, who’d had more
than enough of it all. He did his duty
by stepping out and speaking a piece in
which he told us we were the nucleus of
what was going to be a great navy, and
after that we marched away.
When we had nearly got to the station
on the return trip an old coot came sprint-
ing dow T n the road to say that everyone who
visited the King had to have something to
eat before leaving—it was one. of the rules.
So, like the kids’ game, where they “march
their men to the top of the hill and march
them down again,” we turned back for the
feed.
When we got to the feeding-place I
thought they had made a mistake, and turned
us into a fourpenny hash-house.
There were long tables and forms that
all looked as though they could do with a
good holystoning, and 02. the tables there
were plates of bread, beef and lettuce. No-
thing else. Oh, yes, some salt.
It seemed as reinforcements were arriv-
ing when some beer came in in what looked
like converted bedroom jugs from a “Single-
men-only” lodging-house; but it tasted rather
too much like a Baptist brew, or as if it had
been saved from a watery grave.
No, it wasn’t like the palace in a fairy
tale.
When we got back to Portsmouth we
found that our leave was stopped until we
had seen the doctor. That’s the usual thing.
If you go from one ship to another you see
the doc. of the ship you are leaving, and
then when you arrive on board the new ship
you are not allowed on shore until the new
doc. has passed you, though you may only
have travelled a hundred yards. Of course
you never know what you might catch on a
long trip like that.
The three criminals who had refused to
buy more clothing than they needed were
put into the captain’s report, and as they
couldn’t see him before the following Thurs-
day they had their leave stopped till then.
I think the captain must have been in a
good humor or glad td see the last of us or
something, for he let them off with a caution,
as in the meantime they had altered their
trousers to the uniform width.
B. M. LEVER.


gsd
m%
■
.
f«Ej
,J
. A
■
m
/ I
■
M
■
L~,£f
\
m
< -’* i
■MB
*--*
a
AND
--
re
ef
at 1
fO ID
L mt
Founders of the Rubber industry in Australasia
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE. PERTH. BRISBANE. HOBART. CHRISTCHURCH. AUCKLAND. LAUNCESTON.


A
m
its
Ms to
ee
W
isa
a
ass
I
fib
TV!
fTheLAGER
Without a Rival
Federal
Motor
Trucks
are recognised by success-
ful business men as an
indispensable asset to the
business they control.
g
They are quick to see the advantage they have over competitors who still move their
goods by inefficient horse-teams.
Follow the lead the FEDERAL gives, and investigate to-day!
Sizes: 1, Ih, 2, 3-£, 5 tons.
SOLE AGENT:—
H. W. CROUCH, 26-28 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Htr Majesty's “Yes, Uncle”
Cbiteriok “Irene”
Palace “The Great Adventure”
Tivoli “The Girl for the Boy”
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Mikado” and “lolanthe”
Royal “The Boy”
Icing's “Lightnin’ ”
Princess's "As You Like It”
Playhouse “The Boss Cookie”
Tivoli “Bran Pie”
Hoyt's De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia -. Moving Pictures
Glaciarium Dancing
Olympia Wirths’ Circus
“Alas the days!” moaned one of the Shaks-
peareans in "Twelfth Night” soon after the
rise of the curtain at Melbourne Princess’s
on Saturday night. A spooky echo of toe
sigh swept through the large audience. Alas
the horrible day that was to have been
Henley but wasn’t, because it resolved itself
into a day scarce lit for a duck to be abroad
—unless she were dead or wore goloshes
and a raincoat! But Allan Wilkie’s disciples
are a class apart from ordinary folk, who
have mostly clay feet and heads to match.
They turned out into the dripping night
and into the fusty old theatre in splendid
damp platoons, and to a man, woman and
High School flapper they must have been
anti-prohibitionists. No Pussyfooters would
have enjoyed and applauded the drunken
scene of the three “frightful examples” who
hit up things in Olivia’s kitchen. This scene
was prolonged by some new business between
Sir Toly Belch aud Sir Andrew Aguecheek,
and proved how much more humorous a man
may be drunk than sober. Shakspeare is
reputed to ha ve died iu alcoholic action (Max
Boerbolmi said so), valiantly emptying pint-
pots ana with his back to a butt of the best
nut-brown brew. Be that as it may, he must
have got bis knowledge first hand, and it
was got where the vote went ale-wet and
live quarts to the gallon.
•* * * *
It is 34 years since Allan Wilkie pre-
viously put on “Twelfth Night” in Mel-
bourne, and on the evening of the Henley
fiasco every member of the company save
the twin stars played his or her rOle for
the first time. Yet the raw edges were few
and nor deep. Allan Wilkie, as Malvolio,
gave his audience a stately egoist as well as
a priceless ass. He put something into his
Mulvolian walk and gestures which suggested
that the steward of Olivia, through long
brooding over his imaginary exaltedness,, had
become at heart a grandee of Illyria. Even
when canary-legged and cross-gartered and
throwing loony-kisses he was pitiable but
not contemptible. And when at the last he
took off his chain of office and laid it at
Olivia’s feet, resigning his stewardship, he
suggested a stupid, stately peer taking off
his 0.8. E. and intimating to his sovereign
that he is about to become a humble Bol-
shevist.
Miss Hunter-Watts as Viola (who is in
love with the Duke, who is in love with
“The Boy,” at
Melbourne Royal.
Lance Lister as
Hugh Cavanagh.
Olivia, who is in
love with Viola)
played with gentle
melancholy, spoke
her lines with her
usual faultless elo-
cution, and looked
the dainty page
with a basin crop
and straight back.
Guy Hastings as
Orsino the Duke
was appropriately
stupid and love-
sick until the time
came for him to be
enlightened as to
the real girl to
share his coronet.
Vivian Edwards as
a sea captain would
he loved by Nor-
man Lindsay and
p u t into w a t e r-
colors as a pirate
carrying off an un-
resisting bella
donna. L o r n a
Forbes as Olivia,
the rich countess,
acted gracefully
and with distinction, and was very badly
made-up. But as she was rich and a coun-
tess it was most magnanimous to take as
husband a lad who was clearly out of a job.
Vera St. John, said to be a Maorilander, is
a pretty, vivacious little rogue. As Maria,
waiting woman on Olivia, she laughed so
incessantly and naturally when recounting
her wicked leg-pulling of Malvolio that at
last, a long last, the audience was infected,
and then its laughter out-pealed her own.
She married Sir Toby finally, and serves her
right! Felix Bland as Fabian and Winsor
Gordon as a singing clown were two excel-
lencies of the production.
Randolph Bedford's tale of “The Boss
Cockie” was unfolded to a big audience at
Melbourne Playhouse on Saturday. The play
is saturated with Australian sunlight and
laughter, and Bedford scores further points
for the reality of his types and the quaint
quality of the language he puts in their
mouths. His best creation is Grouthead,
the Boss Cockie, sustained with unfaltering
skill by C. R. Stanford, who in some respects
recalls the humor of Bert Bailey. Mrs.
Grouthead is another bush photograph saved
from caricature by the neat, incisive style of
Mabel Russell. Richard Bellairs does fairly
well as Aladdin Biddulfson, but Bellairs
pursues the uneven tenor of Aladdin’s mis-
fortunes with a face trained to conceal the
emotions that are boiling within him. Non-
chalance such as Bellairs expresses must be
classed as a gift. Beryl Munday, as Judy
Grouthead, is loud without being blatant,
and her acting is refreshingly natural.
Played by a stronger hand than Charles
Daniels, the part of the old actor. Trewhella
Jordan, might have attained prominence.
As it is, Trewhella drops back into the also-
rans. The villain, who is foiled without
reason and often flustered by a Charlie Chap-
lin personality, is acted in a frank comedy
manner by Arthur Jamieson. Ida Gresham
“MRS. DOT,” AT SYDNEY PALACE.
Rodger Barry as Freddie Perkins.
has some crowded minutes as a sentimental
spinster, and Louis Mcllilton (Jimmy from
the Wire Fence) creeps about as a professor
of the mouth-organ expressing a morbid
dread of conversation. Gwen Dorise’s
previous part of the heroine, Vera Pardon,
is now tactfully taken by Lilian Pritchard,
whilst Coldfeet Jones and his daughter
Vanilla are satisfactorily handled by Fred
George and Mardi Dillon.
Though founded on Pinero’s “Magistrate,”
“The Boy” at Melbourne Loyal will demand
a lot of hard work from comedian Arthur
Stigant if it is to win the fancy of a Cup-
time crowd. Stigant, as the comic magis-
trate, Meebles, has almost a monopoly of the
humor, and it is only by lavish gagging and
energy that he chokes the yawn aroused by
the familiarity of his behavior. However,
it is not his fault that he revives memories
of other elderly Lotharios by becoming the
centre of depravity in a midnight frolic. In
that respect he merely burlesques the con-
ventional giddiness of the type, but he
eclipses all previous triers in the size of his
headache, and strikes a high note of comedy
in his slow return to grace in the Magis-
trate’s Room. Here, the bashed and fretful
fugitive of an exciting police raid, he pre-
sents a diverting picture of a muddled sinner
struggling to recover his decorum. Owing
to the illness of Florence Young, Ethel
Morrison appears as Mrs. Meebles and
touches a contralto note of misery as one of the
innocent victims of the aforesaid raid. Her
night in a cell is also artistically suggested,
whereas Gladys Moncrieff, who has likewise
been jugged, provides little evidence of in-
somnia in a hard police bed. But Gladys
sings charmingly and puts some force into
her alleged attachment for Albany Pope,
apparently a vapid character whom a new-
comer, H, St. A. Hilliard, depicts with great
realism. Hilliard’s acting reminds one of
Edmund Sherras, and his singing is almost
equally negative. Another stranger. Lance
Lister, is a trifle more acceptable as Ilughie
Cavanagh, but he has a mild, artless manner
that would he repugnant to the dissipated
young devil he is supposed to portray. Vocally
he is of no great substance. Leslie Holland
is mostly absent from thfe proceedings as a
quaint old magistrate with a passion for ju-
jubes. Maude Fane and Nellie Payne are
also on the fringe of the unemployed. Nell,
in fact, only figures in a quarrelling trio in
the first act. and two or three ditties of no
special distinction represent Maude’s dona-
tion to the show. Roy Redgrave keeps
Colonel Bagot stiff and haughty, but
his voice is occasionally buried ,in fog.
Bantock as a police sergeant, Leslfe
Victor as a pale and puny police-court
clerk, and Fred Coape, John Forde and Zoe
Wenke divide the rest of the dialogue; and
dancer Maude Amery has some brilliant min-
utes on the tips of her toes. Louise Larsson
and Robert Jackson also throw themselves
about in a dance which is more acrobatic
than graceful. Generally speaking, the
music is slim and tinkly, and the dressing
ranges from simple to freakish.
People are beginning to date events by
the show at Sydney Criterion. As, for
example: “I haven’t had a new dress since
‘lrene’ went on”; or “Drunk again—that
makes 13 times since the first night of
‘lrene.’ Once a week! Oughter be
ashamed of yerself!”
Lights up at Sydney Royal on Saturday
night, when Chefalo and Palermo begin a
season of magic. That great trick “Bring-
ing Down the Lligh Cost of Living” cannot
be performed yet; there has been some hitch
in the building of the apparatus.
Marie Tempest, Graham Browne and co.
are back in the sunlit shallows of comedy
with “Mrs. Dot”—the play wherein a laugh-
ing little schemer with £60,000 a year, all
made out of beer, pursues the solemn noble-
man she loves and never doubts for a moment
that she will capture him in the end. This
three-acter of Somerset Maugham’s gets close
to farce speed at its top, and the only person
who lags behind is Herbert Millard as
hero Gerald. Dear Gerald is heavily solemn
all the time, and rolls after the others like
a traction-engine. Intervals are painfully
long; but the putting on of the star’s “crea-
tions” must take time. “The Great Adven-
ture” goes up on Saturday.
“Billjim,” now ending the Courtneidge
Comedy Co.’s season at Sydney Tivoli, has
only two more nights to go. The distinc-
tively Australian title has been borrowed
(like the Anzac hero) by a smart American
authoress, who dumps the virile man from
Australia into a tame English environment.
Of course he carries everything (including
the girl) before him, and advertises chis end
of the Empire in a sort of way. George
Tully is the half-tamed Australian, and Mar-
garet Swallow the girl. It’s rather a pity
we don’t do these things for export ourselves.
The man from Australia, or Canada, or
wherever it may happen to be, is generally
represented by the tame dramatist as a fine
big fellow with a good heart but defective
table manners. This may yet drive some
Australian playwright from the Gulf to rush
to the defence of his country with a drama
full of knives and forks and finger-bowls.
Lee White and Clay Smith return on Satur-
day in “The Girl for the Boy.”
When asked about it the other day, the
Oldest Inhabitant scratched his chin with
his ear-trumpet and guessed that- “Yes.
Uncle,” started at Sydney Majesty’s about
1843. The return of Dorothy Brunton has
given the frivolity a second lease of laughter.
On Saturday night Sydney Choral Society
told the story of poor Maggie Faust’s down-
fall in sweet song. Ralph Errolle’s liquid
tenor was poured out to make the rejuvenated
Faust attractive to the young lady, Carl
Formes sang the chest notes of M'eph.,
Frank Charlton made a sympathetic and
tuneful brother Valentine, and Philippa Al-
ston’s Siebel was an admirable performance.
Conductor Gooud can shake hands w'ith
himself over the chorus work: the packed
Town Hall drew in a deep breath of sheer
delight over the “Light as Air” number.
The Sydney Women Painters’ show:—
Dora Wilson’-s “La Ballerina” is the outstanding
canvas this year; there’s a real flesh-and-blood
woman behind the trappings of the dancer. Mrs.
Sherwood’s work is vigorous and distinctive, and
she reaches such an ecstasy of color in her “Purple
and Blue” as would give tone-color man Hector
something to do to strike a chord to compass it.
The Rix Nicholas canvases are, as usual, the highest
priced in an otherwise modestly-rated little exhibi-
tion—-they run up to 150 guineas. Romance is the
chief quality in Laura Booth’s work ; “every picture
tells a story” for those who have the eyes to see.
Cumbrae Stewart gets a perfectly wonderful back-
view of girlhood ; Florence Fuller is at her best in
“An Overgrown Garden” ; Mrs. Iledley Parsons is
true to her old charm of dappled light and shade in
orchard-trees. Florence Fuller has a miniature of
Evelyn Casperez, the girl who has descended upon
Sydney with the secrets of England’s leading men
locked away in her secretarial brain and half a
dozen languages on the tip of her tongue. Hetty
Dymock’s flowers are so real one can almost get
hay-fever in passing. Mabel Barling's work shows
imagination. Gladys Owen’s uninspired Bellevue Hill
was the only purchase made by the Gallery from
a deserving show; and her view of The Heads was
purchased by Arthur Allen-—possibly it suggested an
ideal site for flats. Olive Birkenhead and Muriel
Cornish are comers-on.
At Sydney Haymarket and Globe, Enid
Bennett is Betty, the Queen of the Pick-
pockets, who sticks to the False Road even
“The Boy," at
Melbourne Royal.
Arthur Stigant as
Horatio Mebles.
.when her best boy
turns to the right.
The corners of the
same screens are
nearly nipped off
by the daredevil
motorist. Wallace
Reid. in "Double
Speed." Geraldine
Farrar keeps the
“Flame of the
Desert” crackling
at the Lyric and
the Empress ; and
Norma Talmadge
is “A Daughter of
Two Worlds” at
the Lyceum and
the Crystal Palace.
Starting off with a
villainous old
cabaret-keeper for
father, and for
sweetheart a young
man who encour-
ages the girl to
forge cheques, it’s
hard going for
Norm a. “T h e
Valley of Doubt”
casts a mighty
shadow at the
S tran d, w here
Vivian Martin is
the wife who won’t obey her husband.
** * *
The career of “F.F.F.,” at Melbourne
King’s, closes on Friday. There is no con-
spicuous reason why De Garis and Stone-
ham, with experience to help them, shouldn’t
concoct a musical play which will last longer
than three weeks, but in any case it will
need a catchier title than three capital let-
ters with a guessing competition attached.
On Saturday the easy-divorce drama of
“Lightnin’” will be staged at the King’s.
* •
At Melbourne Tivoli the sudden disap-
pearance of “The Girl for the Boy” is
already a matter of history. Since then,
in fact, a hasty revival of “Bran Pie” has
come and gone, and now the theatre is wait-
ing for “Maggie” on Saturday. “Maggie,”
which gets its main idea from “Diana of
Dobson’s,” will bring back Ivy Shilling and
Vera Pearce to local observation, and intro-
duce one or two men who have not been
observed here before.
The “Pinafore” performance, which fills
the bill at Melbourne Majesty’s, has lost a
little efficiency by the transference of Ethel
Morrison to the Royal; but Josephine and
Ralph and Deadeye are as before, and all
goes well with Gilbert and Sullivan’s first
big success. Next, week’s programme will
be mixed, to permit of every loser at the
races being able to sample three brands of
musical consolation.
At Wirths’ Circus, in Melbourne Olympia,
there is a wider assortment than usual of
animal and more humor in the proceedings.
And somehow the man who hops downstairs
on his head is getting more credit for his
misguided action than he (or another mem-
ber of the same profession) used to get for
doing likewise in days of old.
Hoyt’s, in Melbourne, are showing Beau.
Smith’s “Man from Snowy River.” Snowy
being associated with Clancy of the Over-
flow in feats of witching horsemanship and
good Australian gallantry. Buck Jones, in
“Forbidden Trails,” is a notable picture at
both De Luxe and Lyceum, where also the
feet of Mary Maclaren are tripping silently
on “The Road to Divorce.” At the Majestic
the modern policy of buttering the fair sex
finds its latest outlet in “The Woman
(fives.” The generous lady on the screen is
Norma Talmadge. At the Melba the story
of “The Man Who Lost Himself” is very
like “The Masquerader,” and at the Britan-
nia a film adaptation of “The Shining Band”
is called “Even as Eve.”
Verbrugghen has held Adelaide Town Hall
for a week. He began with a miscellaneous
evening which lured a packed house on with
“Tannhauser” and “Peer Gynt,” and then
hammered 40 minutes of a Tschaikowsky
symphony into them ; then he settled down
to a week of Beethoven. The novelty of
the idea seemed to frighten Adelaide at
first; but taste grew with what it fed on,
and the great little conductor had his reward
in good houses. Loeal players Walenn.
Silver and others gave incidental aid.
“Three Wise Fools” at the Royal has the
advantage of showing O’Hara in a new part,
and of giving that fine artist Sydney Stir-
ling an adequate chance. Lizette Parkes
is resolute and (“harming by turns. “ ’Pos-
sum Paddock” is just starting at the Prince
of Wales, and “On Our Selection” is having
a big reception on the film at West’s. Also
“Everywoman” at Wondergraph proves to
big business that the screen can work a
showy display of the kind better than the
stage used to do it.


m
v
William - A-Hill.
WORLD'S WHITE JU*JITSU CHAMPION
The Great Tonic and
Strengthener for
Men and Women
The letter of testimony, facsimile of which
is here reproduced, is most weighty proof
of the value of “Sedna,” for supplying
bodily vigor and vim, wherewith to
“carry on.” It is important to notice,
too, that Mrs. Hill (professionally known as Miss Edna Davies), the
world’s greatest woman ju-jitsu exponent and holder of 126 medals,
altogether endorses her husband’s approval.
If YOU feel the strain of life’s battle, act immediately on the above
recommendation! Drink
P'Si
li
■
:.'av<
•'id-JW
ICVV/tW
-
kW-V'J
lAsM'-V/J
te
I
m
mm
CjmM
W
■
□
m.
WWfi
-■y'A'W \ mt \
£%«/;■ fcWßj^i'i'irrn'
■ > ■• i* w.v. Vv,«
i
a
#£&£
o
I l ® ft
w.
Jpoi\
!5%b7&
nV/,
ms
It will revive and strengthen the wasted or overworked system,
help to make good red blood, and put vim and zest into your
whole being.
For ladies, especially, “Sedna” can be heartily recommended as a
bracing and strengthening tonic without rival.
Obtainable from All Chemists and
Stores throughout Australasia.
53£ e i‘ 4 *> n 8 r 20/s/^.
J ® lßo «Bj| VE? ke Streep* •
Doar Sj rs _
£i°; «• VS Id # ?° B * to, f
peat / n offe it t„ ln >it# ? H tJr » Undef
£**& * O'orVC*?
:y"£r^ s do
a be »n ° f a rer ° v S ' lei '- £"■* ao « o,
a fld hy. of «*> B trr>n an y tfr» e< *
r if?
inn
niK
ses
&
4///////////1 /,
'Will
07
-2*
5Q
c° U*^.


The Appeal of Quality
The appeal of Quality was never so forcible as it is to-day—
particularly in Diamond Jewellery. Talented artists created these
designs, and the cleverest Diamond Experts selected the Stones.
Call at any of the Stewart Dawson Establishments and inspect their
beautiful assortment of Diamond Designs, which is continually
being added to.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS. Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN (N.Z.),
HATTON GARDEN, LONDON.
WRITE FOR LATEST CATALOGUE.
STEW'ART DAWSON & C0.t0.) Ltd.
The World=renowned Jewellery Firm.
E6o6 —Fine Quality Diamond Set Platinum and 15-ct.
Gold Flexible Dangle, £37/10/-
u.l7B—Choice Design Fine
Diamond and Platinum
Circle Brooch, £l7/10/-
K992—Fine Diamond and
Platinum Circle Crooeli,
£lB/10/-
E6O8 —Very Artistic Design Platinum and 15-ct. Gold
Flexible Bangle, set Fine Quality Diamonds, £35
Bjst Quality Case supplied with each Article
POVERTY
POINTS
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Lew Par”; “Adelaide” (B. 14/10/’2O)
asks why Maugham’s comedy was billed in
the Eastern States as “Too Many Husbands”
when it was staged in Adelaide and London
as “Home and Beauty.” Courtneidge told
Mclntosh that the piece was a winner, but
suggested that there were bigger things in
it if the American title of the play was
adopted. Mclntosh saw the point, but it
was too late to change the billings of the
piece for Adelaide. Strict instructions
were given, however, to bill it as “Too
Many Husbands” in Sydney. If “Adelaide”
saw the publicity the Mclntosh folk handed
out in Sydney against that of Adelaide, and
compared the box-office receipts of the two
cities, he would realise that Mclntosh did
the right thing when he changed the label.
When he was running his “Glad Eye” co.
Beaumont Smith, another keen publicist,
altered several of the titles of the English
comedies he staged, and in every case scored
heavily by the change.
“Norbell”: I was held up for Ss. 54d.,
without counting the thrip’ny programme, to
see “Pinafore” at Melbourne Majesty’s on
Caulfield Cup night. “Pinafore” is a short-
weight bill at any time, and though we had
a long, long pause between the acts, and
though the opera was stuffed with alien
items which must have made Gilbert’s shade
wriggle, I was home —and dry-—before
11. Certainly I got double value for my
money, as an elderly girleen next me sang
me the entire opera, quasi parlando, as the
show progressed. I was pleased to observe
that the old J.C.W. traditions were main-
tained, and that Sir Joseph Porter’s escort
of two red-coated marines came aboard by
walking across the bed of the harbor. The
First Lord himself, being diminutive, was
invisible, or perhaps he used -a submarine.
HARDLY ENOUGH TO PAY TIER
BOARD.
“ She’s got a brute of a husband—never
gives her a penny.”
“But she must earn a fair amount herself
by her dancing!”.
“A bare blanky hundred a week, believe
me!”
But whv does Sir Joseph warble of the
King’s Navee? Everything else, from the
topical allusions to the sails of H.M.S. Pina-
fore, shrieks of Victoria, R. et I. Ralph
Rackstraw introduced new comedy by fling-
ing his hat overboard at the Portsmouth
shipping. He hit the Victory a sounding
smack that made the house laugh, but when
he did it again in the second act the silence
gave him frostbite.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Shakspeare’s
“Comedy of Errors” was first produced in
Australia at the Melbourne Royal when G.
V. Brooke was lessee, before he broke with
Henrj Edwards and George Fawcett (Rowe).
In the cast were Creswiek (a fine reader
but no actor, though a great favorite with
Brooke), Harwood, G. V. Brooke and Henry
Edwards (fairly well matched physically as
the Antipholi), Harry Jackson and J. L.
Sefton (well-matched Dromios), Mrs.
Guerin (mother of Nellie Stewart). George
Fawcett, Mrs. Winterbottom (she was the
wife of the conductor of the orchestra) and
Miss Fanny Morgan, later known as Mrs.
Fanny Morgan Phelps. It had a long run
with a change of cast. Brooke and Edwards
becoming the Dromios, and a droll couple
they were. On this change two ladies were
the Antipholi. Brooke, was the original pro-
ducer of a number of Shakspearean plays
not before seen in Australia, and some of
them not produced since. He .tackled “Love’s
Labor Lost.” “Coriolanus,” “Twelfth Night”
(remarkable for the wonderful Toby Belch
of J. C. Lambert) and “Two Gentlemen of
Verona.”
“8.J.” : Sara Bernhardt is still making and
breaking expensive contracts. Recently she
was billed to appear for a week at London
Garrick; but when
manager Cochran
went to Folkestone
to meet her he
found that she was
not on the boat,
and a message sub-
sequently received
announced that
she was too tired
after a long motor
journey to carry
out the engage-
ment. Sara, when
I saw her recently
i n Par i s, wa s
merely a pictur-
esque r uin; but
seemingly ther e
are still many Lon-
doners who have
never heard the
voice that once
was golden, an d
are prepared t o
pay fancy prices
to listen to a soul-
less echo of it
s l) e a k i n g a lan-
guage they do not
understand. While
Sara is still mak-
ing the most of the
privileges of an old
woman and a
“Mrs. Dot,” at
Sydney Palace.
Herbert Millard as
Gerald Halstane.
Great Lady, Eleonora Duse is living in
poverty in Rome, receiving an allowance
from the Government as a war widow.
“75” : Three of Louis Esson’s one-act plays
—“Dead Timber,” “The Woman Tamer” and
“The Sacred Place”—■all of which have been
done in Australia by repertory cos., and a
fourth, “The Drovers,” which he has written
in England, are to be published in one volume
by the Bomb Shop. This is not an emporium
of revolutionary literature, but a well-known
London house which specialises in the plays
of all nations. Anybody who wishes to get
into touch with the Icelandic dramatic re-
vival or to make a study of the folk plays of
Montenegro has only to visit the Bomb Shop
and can rely upon a few dozen examples of
the drama of these countries being exploded
under his nose.
“Glen II.”: That vaudeville infliction
which begins “with your kind permission,
I will give some imitations of artists I have
seen and heard” recently received
a jolt when George Grossmith
objected to Ruth Astor, a Yankee,
giving her version of a Phyllis
Dare performance while Phyllis
herself was playing to more expen-
sive audiences at a theatre under
Grossmith’s management. The
music-hall lady now prefaces her
imitation of Phyllis with an
announcement to the effect that it
is given with Grossmith’s consent.
Which suggests that somebody has been
talking to a lawyer.
“Orb” : Fred England, of J.C.W.’s Gilbert
and Sullivan co., must be its oldest inhabi-
tant. ’Way back in the Montague-Turner
days he was a front-ranker, singing Valen-
tine in “Faust,” and making a very credit-
able Mephisto when Farley, the regular devil,
was taking a day off to go to church. I
saw England do Devilshoof in “Bohemian
Girl” admirably at the old Sydney Opera
House in the early ’nineties, and he had
been helping J.C.W. years before that. He
has often sung important Gilbert -<nd Sulli-
van roles for the Firm, such as Pish Tush
in “The Mikado,” and he is now frisking in
the front row of the chorus in the present
revivals. Fred hails from Hobart, where
his father ran a flourishing carrying business
in the cheap days that are dead.
From London :
There has been a glut of “first nights.” A
dramatised version of “The Blue Lagoon” looks like
being a success at the Prince of Wales's, because of
its handsome scenery, tricky stage effects—which
include a ship on fire and sinking in mid-ocean, the
survivors adrift in a boat, and an island storm—
and the canoodling of the young castaways when
they grow to youth and flapperhood. Edward Rigby,
who will be remembered in Aussie for his perform-
ances in “The Blue Bird” and as the waiter in “You
Never Can Tell,” provides a particularly tine imper-
sonation of an old sailor. Three of the new shows,
“The Prude’s” Fall” (by Rudolf Besier, author of
“The Virgin Goddess,” which Asche staged for four
nights in Melbourne), “Wedding Bells” and “Her
Dancing Man,” play jazz variations on the infernal
triangle. “Her Dancing Man,” in which the dis-
tressingly tall and unattractive Viola Tree
wears the most bare-faced dress yet seen in
London, is unusually unpleasant, with a “lounge
lizard” for its hero. Somebody in the gallery on
the first night had the good taste to boo-hoo. An
attempt to transplant Grand Guignol drama to Lou-
don is being made at the Little, with three short
plays and a revue, “Oh, Hell!” A large helping of
horror is provided in “The Hand of Death,” in which
a Professor tries to bring to life his dead daughter.
The corpse moves, grips the Professor by the throat,
strangles him to death, and then resumes its former
occupation of being a cadaver. In another of the
evening’s offerings, “G.H.Q. Love,” the leading-
characters are Flossies, and the scene is placed out-
side a lavatory used by both sexes. In the end one
of the Totties retires to the compartment labelled
“Dames” and commits suicide. “Chu Chin Chow :
has entered its fifth year at His Majesty’s, and Asche
removed a few yards more of the meagre draperies
worn by the mannequins to celebrate the occasion.
Three unfortunate mimes and the limelight man have
not missed a single performance since the show
began. Fred Leslie has introduced a new dance,
the Kangaroo Kick, into “Oh, Julie!” It looks like
a subdued version of the one-step. Florence Vie, for long
with the Firm, has entered the cast of “Johnny
Jones,” whereof Robey is the star, and has been
hailed by the Times as a second Connie Ediss.
“Biobox”: The film censor continues to
make work for himself, and now that the
scope of his blue pencil extends to advertis-
ing material he finds the movie world a very
wicked place. The joke of the whole thing -
is that matter which is deleted from the
cinema advts. is quite permissible when used
to boost the spoken play. The censorship is
undoubtedly a farce, but applied to health
rather than morals it would achieve some
benefit. Whether or not a lady shall reveal
a little more or less isn’t so important a mat-
ter as the distance at which a child shall
view a picture. On busy nights you’ll spot
the youngsters right up against the screen,
and the sight must be decidedly encouraging
to the rising young oculist. At matinees
you’ll find the youngsters gaping fit “The
Midnight Man” and going home to dream of
desperadoes with a gun in either hand and
a knife between the teeth. There’s no reason
to censor the picture, but a brain specialist
would have his doubts about letting the kids
see it.
“Hamfat”: Nellie Ferguson, who plays
Nancy in a Sydney version of “Oliver
Twist,” is a daughter of D’Orsay Ogden, and
made a hit in the part when a mere kid. In
the old Rignold production of Oliver, by the
way, Harry Douglas was Bill Sikes; he
used to boast in his old age of the horror
he produced by enclosing a “blood-sponge”
in the perforated india-rubber ball that
formed the head of the property club with
which Nancy was woodened out. “Never a
night, my boy, but at least two susceptible
females were carried, fainting, from the
house,” the old actor-r would recall. “Ah,
those were the days.”
“R.A.”: “Cyrano.” (B. 14/10/’2O) has
given the “A” to the wrong Fred Leslie. It
is our Fred who is known as “Fred A.
Leslie” and not the Englishman. Fred
Leslie played in the London production of
"Yes, Uncle !•” The last I saw of Fred A.
Leslie he was playing with Jennie Benson
in “Topsy Turvy” at the Hippodrome, and
notice was just beginning to be taken of him
as a comedian. Before that he was a boom
as a dancer with Ivy Shilling.
“Aswas” : The Graham Moffats and their
co. have arrived in the U.S.A., and under the
direction of William Morris will tour Canada
and the States, and tljen play an engagement
(still under Morris) in New York. Alec
Purdie, who was in “A Scrape o’ the Fen”
with them here, lately supported Marie Ilka
in Sydney.
“Lucky Alphonse”: Never in its history
has the Paris stage been so undressed. It is
experiencing an orgy of nudity, many ladies
in revues decking their charms only with a
few articles of jewellery. In “L’Llomme aux
Roses” a wild carouse ends in a naked lady
being carried on a large dish. Agnes Souret,
Avho recently won a French beauty competi-
tion, was offered and declined the job of
plate-layer. When I was in Paris recently
every musical show made a feature of bare
legs. The finest collection of dirty feet I
have seen for years was owned by a ballet
at the Marigny.
“H. 0.” (London) ; Millie Hylton, who
was “discovered” by George Edwardes years
ago when appearing at the ’alls, has just
died. She was one of five sisters, the other
four being Letty Lind, Adelaide Astor (now
Mrs. George Grossmith), Lydia Flopp and
Fanny Dango.
“Dale”: The persistence of the fallacy
that the public likes three hours’ theatre
"YES, UNCLE.” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Alf red Frith and his three comic waiters
singing the “Hymn of Wait.”
for its money amazes me. By 10.20 the
average audience is one big yawn and fidget,
and every moment thereafter increases the
.disturbance. Boys with wenches to be
taken home sigh when they think of the
gas-box and the whistle of last trains, and
their ladies wonder what use the new hat
was, after all. Everybody else is haunted
by the thought of the journey home and
tantalised by the desire fyr soft pillows and
white sheets. But a benighted management
drag's out intervals and interpolates dreari-
ness in an insane belief that it is giving good
measure. The trouble is that the little is
made to go too far.
“S.T.S.”: Why this sudden agreement on
the stage that it is funny to pretend that
your companion spits in your face when
talking? Within a fortnight I have seen
this device played in pairs by Leslie Hol-
land and Welch, Redgrave and Theodore
Leonard, Leonard and Maud Fane, and as a
foursome by Steyne, Rex London. Valentine
and Lottie Sargent-—in the last case one of
the brighter spirits pretended to have to
swim. It was an old and unsavory jest on
the music-hall stage, which surely might
have been allowed to keep it.
“B.LO.”: Emelie I’olini would be a trea-
sure in any house, particularly in gasless
Melbourne, on her showing as a cook in
“Kindling.” She brings home a liver for
supper (all ready cut, by the look of it, for
there’s no sign of that messy job), and fries
it in about five minutes without any of the
smell and splutter that always go with
liver’n’bacon.
“Vaudeville Veteran”: One of ’Arry Rick-
ards’s pet artists was the late Jim Ilarvey,
mimic, who played under the same banner
for about nine years. He’d been seen so
often that his receptions were often mixed,
but the guvnor insisted on keeping him on
the pay-roll. “I tell yeiy he used to say,
“Jim’s a preformer. Don’t 1 know a pre-
former when I see one? And, mind yer,
none of yer pushin’ ’im out avvfter I’ve
shuffled orf.” So Jim stayed. One matinee
afternoon the silence of the chief’s office was
broken by the sound of thunderous applause
from the theatre. “Who’s that. Jack? Who's
that stopping the show-?” queried Rickards.
Between clenched teeth Jack Leete hissed.
“Jim Harvey!” “’Arvey, eh?” exclaimed
the guvnor. “Lor’blime. don’t I know a
preformer when I see one? Pass me my
slippers, Jack.” The chief slipped noise-
lessly into a box and mildly applauded while
Harvey took his third bow, then came for-
ward with: “Ladies and gentlemen, I will
now have much pleasure in giving you an
impersonation of my respected governor. Mr.
Harry Rickards, making his farewell speech
before departing on a tour of the world in
search of new attractions : ‘Ladies and gents,
nah thet I'm abaht to sail for the old dart.
I take this oppertoonity of’ ” Rickards
left about then and sent for Jim Harvey.
The mimic came to the office. “Well. Jim.”
said the chief, “and how long have you been
with me now, Jim?” “ ’Bout nine years,
Guvnor.” “Nine years, eh. Jim? Well, Jim,
old man, you finish this afternoon.”
THE STRAIGHT TIP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Grey' he had grown in service here,
When on a certain night
He was persuaded to appear,
To his old friend’s delight,
At our suburban lodge. A great
Occasion fired our zest.
With sumptuous dinner and a fete
We marked the date, and at the feast
Old George, from ’customed tasks released,
Was giving us his best.
He first recited “Gunga Dhin”
Then “Denver’s Dream.” Encore
Brought our own Adam Gordon in.
The actor gave us more.
Our chairman, Brother Jones, a bloke
Both eloquent and sage,
Straight into warmest praises broke.
“By Jove, that’s fine!” His hand he caught.
“Say, Titheradge, you really ought
To go upon the stage!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


m
m m
■m
mm
mm
wmm
Plmß
11
i
H
Hi
■MM
M
SSSSS:
1 "'v:v'll% r ;J§|fc^
! h;
iltlll
iilliill
WwS&xS
w
w
a
t
1 1
/
j
:*>:
M
<3^>
I % m
•
■• • •• Ss*
■ H
Prepare
v\
\ r%
Ml
It*
«/«' ;Ao
y cvcrv
Beruci -^-
m. t> IK JSC^S*'
V
ISSMSS
HHHk
•‘ -
••MU
iilllilliil
■**.<:* : : : :*: : : : :v:
/
Summer is just
over Ihe Hil
N
OW is the right time to paint all exposed woodwork. Summer
sunshine plays havoc with unprotected timber, particularly if
intense heat follows rainfall. Pay for paint—or pay for repairs!
Paint NOW! Save the surface, and save all. The cost of repairs is
considerably greater than the cost of the best paint. Give your house
adequate protection—not merely for one season, but for several seasons
—by applying
□
D
□
LJ
A
a
o
a
(PREPARED)
Every tin bears the manufacturers’ signed guarantee that the paint will spread and wear better than
other paints. Perfect mechanical processes positively ensure uniform quality in every can of B.r.
Evidence of its remarkable spreading capacity is furnished by the experience of Dr. J. H. V. Scott,
of Scone, N.S.W., who, having ordered FIVE gallons according to his painter s estimate, found that
his property was effectually painted before the second gallon-can was emptied. “B-P” saves outlay.
Manufactured at Rhodes, N.S.W., by
LEWIS BERGER & SONS (AUSTRALIA) LTD.
There’s a Berger Agent and a good painter within easy call.
‘MR. BERGER.»
Reg’d Trade-mark,


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIHITED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS daWrUTTY
tawM*
ME
OURIME&SYbNEY
Is
CAPTAIN
K •JSSWi
V jWI Jl
7/
’•Mi
0
Mild, Mellow, Fully Matured
—a Liquor you’ll Appreciate
All Hotels and
Licensed Store#
In this page’s opinion lied Cardinal will
prove not quite good enougli at the finish of the
Cup. Handsome Daarewin has just as good a chance
on paper, and if Red Cardinal couldn't give 111 b.
to Daarewin in the Squatters’ Handicap four weeks
ago, when they carried comparatively heavy weights,
why should he be able to give him 31b. at Fleming-
ton where they will have only light boys up ? A
turn of speed to finish with is what a Cup winner
wants, and for this reason the penalised Pershore
will have backers should he go to the post.
But if it be reasonable to fancy Pershore, the
Metropolitan winner, how much more reasonable to
pin one’s faith to Kennaquhair and Poitrel, who will
carry only 31b. and 51b. more than they humped
into first and second places in last Sydnev Cup ! The
top-weights are growing no younger, but “they are no
older than Red Cardinal, anyhow. Still, they are
past the improving age, whereas animals like Per-
shore, Ecarte, Drumore, Daarewin, Queen Comedy and
the three-year-olds have probably not shown the
best that is in them. Which remark applies likewise
to Eurythmic, whose 9st. 41b. in the Melbourne Cup
would hardly stop him if he were a real stayer. The
chances are he isn’t. Probably Accrington, who
chased Eurythmic too late and too little in the Caul-
field Cup, will beat him over the longer course.
But Accrington is aged, and though one would be
bound to pick the uncertain English gelding in any
half-dozen against the field, there is nothing in his
record to commend him to one’s very best opinion,
as against the possibility of a youngster doing the
tuck. It is hard to draw a line of comparison
between Accrington, the Caulfield Cup runner-up,
with only 7st ; 31b. to carry, and Ecarte, the Metrop.
runner-up, with only 7st. It were easier to prove
that Millieme, who ran a good race against Ecarte
in the Waverley Handicap, is about the most un-
kindly-treated animal among the Cup entrants. At
Bst. 121 b. Millieme seems overweighted. With 71b. off
his back he would look worthy to be first favorite.
I hat s how the coming Melbourne Cup presents itself
to the present writer. Any one of 15 or 20 horses
might win it.
Nobody can say who will start first favorite
Eurythmic, presumably, if he wins the Melbourne
Stakes on Saturday. Certainly not the Derby winner
although there is little argument to be advanced’
against the three-year-olcls, save the bad performance
of Salitros m the Caulfield Cup. It is an ancient
turf axiom, however, that no horse should be dis-
trusted on one bad performance, nor would it be
extraordinary for Salitros to win both V.R.C. Derby
i-jij a^er flashing out of a place in the Caul-
neld Cup. Patrobas did it, and no sort of excuse
was offered for the defeat of Patrobas in the C C
talking of excuses, by the way, the theory that
horses object to racing the “opposite” wav of
the course is mostly new-fangled guff. We heard no-
thing about it in the days when James White used to
send ms Sydney-trained horses to Melbourne to
scoop the pool. Martini-Henry, Nordenfeldt Tri-
dent, etc., were not supposed to be at any disadvan-
tage in running the “opposite” way of the course
to what they were accustomed to in Sydney. Car-
bine, from M.L., was not particular about having the
inside rails on his left or his right. If Salitros
had reasonable luck when he ran so badly at Caul-
held his defeat must have been due to the sharp
change of climate, or change of jockey, or loss of
* or r m A T? al , d to have been the ftttest horse in the
A.J.G. Derby field, he may have already gone off.
In a year when older nags seem so pretty much
of a muchness at the weights, and the race is likely
to be exceptionally fast, it seems unwise to dismiss
all the three-year-olds from the calculation. Assum-
lng that some of them were backward when they ran
in the Derby at Randwick they are still worth con-
sidering. Syce Knight, as a placed horse in the
Metropolitan, appears to have a good chance, especi-
ally if he misses the Derby next Saturday. The
Derby gallop at Randwick must have done him a lot
of good, for, starting at an outside price for the
Metrop., he made practically all the running and
outstayed everything save Pershore and Ecarte. Given
a month’s improvement on top of that performance
Syce Knight is at least as well worth backing as
Ecarte. One would expect him, of course, to cut a
respectable figure next time he meets Salitros,
Malurys, Erasmus and Strathredole, but it isn’t
necessary for a young ’un to actually win the Derby
previous to a handsome victory in the Cup. Auraria
Clean Sweep, Lord Cardigan, Lord Nolan, Sasanof
and Artilleryman were three-year-olds that hadn’t won
the Derby three days earlier. Newhaven, Merriwee.
Poseidon. Prince Foote and Patrobas were winners of
the double event. Syce Knight, who ran a real good
race in the Metrop. under his Cup weight, is a com-
parative outsider in the betting. This column, then,
makes it out that Syce Knight is a possible winner,
well worth backing at the odds, and all the better
worth backing since White Phast won the Moonee
Valley Cup.
* * * *
Some M.L. Cup candidates were given a
run on the opening day of the Wellington Racing
Club’s Spring Meeting. In the Wainui Handicap
(one mile) Vagabond (top weight in the Cup) got
to within half a length of Imaribbon. The Mar-
tian gelding meets the mare 71b. worse in the Cup.
In the Wellington Handicap (one mile three fur-
longs), Gasbag, who won by a head from Bonnie
Heather, has 61b. off his back in the lqnger race.
The Heather Mixture gelding was carrying his
allotted burden. In the Wellesley Handicap (four
furlongs), for two-year-olds, Rational (Absurd —
Cowl), who won the Debutant Stakes at Wanganui,
was a length behind Mermin in the fast time of
47 l-6see.
The Onkaparinga (S.A.) Jockey Club
struck bad weather and small fields for its additional
fixture. The jumping races attracted most entries
and Mooney had a strenuous day. He started off
by winning the Maiden Hurdles on Kanwyn and in
the following race, the Spring Hurdle Handicap,
lended Naval Gem home five lengths ahead of Sir
Mac. Taking a spell during the October Handicap
he was on Press Through for the Steeple and got a
place.
* „ * „
“Cutpurse”: As usual the Spring carni-
val has strewn Melbourne racecourses with scribes
who fancied count-
less winners and
have been switched
off them by later
information. The
worst * case I ever
saw w>as old Jim
Smith, who tipped
the one, two, three
in six races at
Caulfield. He was
working for a
press agency, and
his tips went to
Bendigo. That
night Jim came
into the office.
“Bendigo’s gone
mad over youi
work,” said Dave
Walker, who was
in the same office.
“I know, I know,”
sighed Smith.
“Could you lend
me a dollar? I
even lost my
picket home!”
H. A.
ARMY T AGE,
of the V.R.C.
Committee.
In the trial match which started last
Saturday on Sydney Cricket Ground, the wicket
began by being too perfect. So quickly did the
ball leave the pitch that the batsmen could not sight
it, and Kelleway, Collins and Warren Bardsley were
dismissed for a grand total of nil, while Jack
Gregory got only two. Hendry and Trenerry were
the agents of destruction. Then came a violent
storm and when it had done with the pitch J. M.
Taylor (91 n. 0.) and Oldfield (51 n. 0.) demonstrated
that the bowling had become child’s play. The
former showed batting of the highest class —he
performed like another Hobbs —his strokes both
before and behind the wicket being perfectly timed.
His partner was very solid, but like all ’keepers was
inclined to play a little late at the ball.
* * * *
In Sydney Grade cricket on Saturday
play was possible in only four out of the six games
—the rainstorm of the early afternoon cruelled the
others. In the ’Varsity-Central Cumberland match
Yates, for the former, bowled a most deceptive ball,
and possibly had he been put on earlier would have
repeated one of his sensational efforts of last season.
Diamond and the consistent Hervey kept Gordon’s end
up against Glebe. Their “express,” Cullen, made
the ball kick very awkwardly, and in addition kept
an excellent length. The wicket at Hampden Oval,
after the rain, appeared to suit Noble, and he made
the ball talk till stumps were drawn. Gee (Middle
Harbor) is always sure of a few, and had bad luck
in getting run Out. For the same club Dr. Roy
Minnett, during a brief visit, let go some very wristy
strokes. Wests gave a delightful exhibition of
fielding against Petersham, and Russell and Wall
(a most consistent wicket-taker) split up the
wickets. Emery (Petersham), like Noble, bowled
well on the soaked wicket.
* * * *
The season’s first big splash in N.S.W.
cricket occurred on Saturday, when Ames (Middle
Harbor) upset all 10 Paddington wickets—lo for
33 runs in a total of 57. The rain-damaged wicket
helped, of course.
Frank Iredale's battle for Australian
cricket gets the reward of a “benefit” between the
Australian XI and the Rest of Australia at Sydney
on the former’s return after the English tour next
year. Besides tripping with Harry Trott’s XI in
1896 and Joe Darling’s XI in 1899, Iredale has
played against most of the States. Nowadays he
finds joy as secretary of N.S.W.C.A. Perhaps the
most remarkable match he ever played in was for
N.S.W. v. South Aus., at Sydney in 1901, when five
Ma State players piled up centuries —Syd Gregory
(168), Noble (153), Poidevin (140), Reg Duff (119)
and Iredale (118).
A. Ambler (S.A.) is the only player new
to rep. cricket in the opening Sheffield Shield match
between Vic. and S. Aus., at Adelaide this week.
He played with N. Adelaide last year, and in first-
grade matches scored 206 runs, averaging 17.6.
* * * *
Vince Blackburn met Eugene Criqui at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday night. Eugene arrived
from Franee with a big reputation as a puncher.
For the first five or six rounds he failed to live
up to it. Blackburn hit the visitor when and
where he liked, and in particular smote him on and
about the jaw with a punishing left. Then Crioui
called up his reserves and went over the top. He
uppercut Blackburn so often with his right that
the local lad could hardly get his eyes off the roof.
Cruel things were done to the Australian’s digestive
region, for Eugene is a master of in-fighting. By
the eighth Blackburn was done, and only his own
nerve and the misjudgment of his corner kept him
in the firing-line. In the 10th Blackburn’s towel
came in and he retired badly outclassed. Criqui’s
form suggests that he can eat punishment and deal
it out wholesale; and there is no doubt that God-
frey, Hill and the rest of that division will be set
some problems by him before they are finished.
At a recent scrap in Melbourne a lad just
down from Baw Baw, who was said to have wiped
out everything in his district, was given a try-
out, a hefty youngster from Footscrav being put up
against the champion of the mountains. Footscray
got all over the man from Baw Baw, and proved
to have an awful wallop that sent the pride of
Gippsland through the ropes at every swipe. The
Baw Baw boy was down for the fifth time in the
second round, and as the timekeeper chanted “Six,
seven, eight.” the stricken pugilist raised his bead
and said: “Thank Gord, I took a return ticket!”
England is taking next year’s international
polo very seriously, and talks of raising £30,000
as a “defence fund.” The idea is that the best
men, when selected, shall not be worried about finance
at all, having the best mounts that can be bought
for money placed at their service. It is suggested
that most of the money will be got back afterwards
in the increased prices that ponies fresh front inter-
national play ought to fetch.
In the South Sydney-Maitland challenge
match on Saturday the brilliant South Sydneyite
1?. E. White won the 75yds, (S 1-lOsec), 100yds.
(10 2-ssec), broad jump (19ft. 4}in.), and was third
in the hop, step and jump (39ft. 54in.). H. W.
Sweeting (South) usurped the half-m'le (2min.
8 l-ssec.) and mile (4ntin. 53 LSsee.) Maitland
excelled in the high-jumping events. Souths won
by 34|jpoints to 314.
In this year’s X.R.A. meeting on the
Anzac range at Liverpool (N.S.W.) the entries were
heavy—“ King’s,” 845; “A” series, 840; “B” series,
800 ; “C” series, 500. Countrymen did best in the
“C” series. In the “Dibbs” (10 shots at 300yds.)
they filled five places behind C. Sheppard (Waverley),
who won with 48. In the “Mills” (10 shots at
500yds.) four notched the possible (50), and J.
Shaw (Strathfield) won on the count-out. H. M.
Denman (Lithgow) took the “Douglas” Aggregate
of these matches with 143 out of 150. There was
some great shooting in the “B” series. In the
“French” (10 shots at 000yds.), W. Clark (Parra-
matta) got 20 consecutive bulls before he dropped
below the circle owing to a heated barrel. In the
“McAlister,” F. T. Marsden and A. E. Street (both
of Sydney) had to shoot off a “possible” tie, and in
the “Vicars,” eight “possibles” shot off for the first
prize.
Ladies have been present in search of the
spoil. Miss Ella Mitchell, of Peak Hill, supported
her nomination in each event by going to the mound;
but although she did fairly in the “continuous” anil
“quick-firing” matches, mere man kept her out of
the prize-money.- Probably her luck may turn in
the “A” series—the only class for which she is
eligible owing to past deeds. Family illness kept
Mrs. Scott (Lithgow) away from the preliminary
matches; but Mrs. McGregor, of Malay States, lined
up and shot well.
» * * *
Gilbert Hill, a young Orange (N.S.W.)
farmer of 22, won the Queensland “King’s” in shock-
ing weather last week. Hill’s best was 49 (out of
50) at 900,vds. —a fine effort. His aggregate was
278 ; the others nearest to him were P. Morphy
(Roma) 274, G. Bradley (Brisbane) 273, and .1.
Smith (British team) 271. At the same meeting
the touring Britishers beat the Q.R.A. Council team
by 1173 to 1114. The visitors excelled at 500yds.,
where the 12 men scored 407—an average of just
under 34 out of a 35 “possible.” .T. L. Dewar, 11. T.
Wood, A. E. Martin and A. T. Rowland scored
“possibles” at this range for Britain. J. B. Wal-
lace was easily the best of the Northerners, with
98 out of a possible 105.
* * * *
Sydney Sailing Club and Sydney Flying
Squadron staged an 18-footer handicap over the
long course on Saturday. The winner turned up
in Tom Tait’s amateur-built Rocket, off the 54min.
mark. Tait handled his creation superbly, crossing
the line at Clark Island with 61sec. to spare from
Swastika (Edney), who finished lsec. in front of
Mona (Gordon King). Rocket sailed like a witch
throughout, and had the race won at Shark Island,
which was rounded with 70sec. to spare from Mona,
whose for’ard hands were deadly slow in setting
extras. Rocket, unlike Mona and Swastika, didn’t
gibe at Shark Island, but came along half-way to
Clark Island before throwing the boom across. The
three craft set ballooners, spinnakers from the top-
sail head and ringtails. The breeze for the first
time this season was from the north-east, with, at
times, a lot of east in it. Sid Richardson poked
Movana’s bumpkin through Mississippi when round-
ing the mark at Clark Island. Mona and Mavis
lost their sheet-hands overboard at the same spot,
and Bill Roberts, of Desdemona, also had a bath.
* * * *
‘‘Glen Hun-tly” (from London) : Charles
Cochran having retired in disgust from the position
of the world’s boss boxing-promoter, it looks as
if the bottom will fall out of the prize-fighting
boom, which nobody did more than Cochran to
create. The big London theatrical magnate has
become sick of boxers as a class, owing to their
habits of smashing
contracts, demanding
impossible conditions
and behaving gener-
ally like spoilt prima
donahs. With Cochran
out of the market,
bidding for the world’s
championship is likely
to take a big jump
downward. Cochran’s
history as a boxing-
promoter has been very
much that of Mcln-
tosh. Before he came
into the game the
purses were compara-
tively small. When
they started to leap
skyward the “stars”
concerned could not
find hats big enough
to fit their bloated
craniums, and became
.so foolish and cantan-
kerous that eventually
they slew the fatted
calf which lay the gol-
den eggs.
ERIC CONNOLLY,
the Solon of
the Australian
racing world.
Arthur A. Baynes scared off opposition m
Queensland champion sculls last week, and he merely
paddled over the course to keep the title won last
year. Baynes, who also holds the Australian amateur
title, will shortly leave for England to get fit for
the Diamond Sculls. George Towns (N.S.W.) has
had much to do with the progress of the Northern
sculler.
THE PSYCHIC MESSAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At a Conan Doyle lecture I was trying to helieve
All he said of perished mortals who in spirit form
appear,
When I felt an unseen something tugging gently at
my sleeve,
Whilst a voice that smelt of onions shed a whisper
in my ear
(And amidst the smell of onions was a subtle
scent of Beer) —-
Yea, the accents hoarse I heard
Of a certain Early Bird,
Who had hopped the twig at Easter and been de-
decentlv interred—
I was one among the mourners when the incident
occurred.
So 1 felt a solemn presage
That a sporting spirit message
Was about to be delivered, which I gladly would re-
ceive
From the tout whose ghostly fingers now were tug-
ging at my sleeve.
My soul had been converted to the psychoplasm creed ;
With the mystic world of shadows I was suddenly
in touch ;
From my state of mental bondage I had suddenly
been freed —
I was now the friend of spirits, and they treated
me as such,
Arid that was why my coat-sleeve was sub-conscious
of the touch
Of the late lamented bloke
Who in horsey accents spoke—
The tout 1 had assisted when he oft was stony broke,
Till his touting days were ended by an unexpected
stroke.
Said the Voice, acutely fragrant,
, Of the disembodied vagrant:
“ ’Ere’s the informashun, guvnor, which the blankey
punters need —
It’s the moral for the Melbourne, s’lp me Gawd, it
is indeed!”
Good Conan Doyle had warned us to beware of
spoofing spooks,
Who answer silly questions with ridiculous replies;
Methought this airy blighter comes from dead and
buried crooks
To gull confiding punters with a pack of wicked
lies—
This spirit form he takes is a respectable disguise,
And the yarn he has to spin
Of a gee-gee sure to win
Will be merely more temptation to commit a mortal
sin
(For it’s always wrong to gamble when you do your
money in).
I suffered this misgiving
Just as though he had been living.
He couldn’t help his face; but I had never liked his
looks,
And again I thought, “This blighter may be working
for the books.”
My suspicions I dissembled; to the Voice I mur-
mured, “Well,
I know not whence your presence, or what spirit
form you are ;
But, prithee, put me wise if you have anything to
tell—
Do you bring your information from a stable or
a bar,
Or cometh it from Heaven, where one has a guid-
ing star?”
The Voice replied “Syce Knight!”
(As though it said “Nice night!”),
And somehow it impressed me, all my doubts and
fears despite,
Though the ’ tone was coarse and churlish, and the
accent impolite
Of the unseen presence eerie.
With the breath so hot and beery ;
And I wondered if the spirit who had cast on me a
spell
Was a kindly soul from Heaven or a cunning tout
from H —l.
From the Conan Doyle lecture 1 w'alked moodily
away;
Ah, never will I scoff at disembodied spirits more,
For a blighter had addressed me, with his body in
decay,
And I thought of psychoplasms as I never thought
before
(I felt he w,as no angel from the blessed golden
shore) ;
No longer do I doubt
A dead and buried tout,
Who lived a life of onions, plus excessive ale and
stout,
Can hover round a sceptic who such notions used to
scout.
And his spirit I am testing
With the quid I am investing
At starting price on Syce Knight, for whose victory
I pray.
(The bard, to be precise, might
Sing of Sy-ce, ’stead of Syce Knight;
But to give the tout’s advice right
I pronounce the word his way.)
If the reader, once or twice, might
Like to chance a bit on Syce Knight,
He will get the starting price right
From the paper the next day—
Get the quoted starting price right
From the paper the next day.
vie TOH A.
O. K.


Learn to Use Your Fists
You never know what moment you
will have occasion to use them, • and
it would be a mighty uncomfortable
experience if you got a thrashing.
Your SJSSE will not protect you if
i’oii’re Untrained —SCIENCE will come
but 6h tbp fevbry time. The mail who
knbwS the art of Scientific Boxing
has it “dll bver” on His bpponent;
I Teach
Boxing by Post
—teach yoli iidw td become a skilled and scientific
boxer. My methods drfe' simple, practical and
thorough. You cannot fail to progress rapidly and
quickly, and you will learn all the “hits,” “stop's”
and “moves” of the world’s most famous boxers.
Write for my interesting booklet, “Scientific Boxing
in the Home,” which will be mailed FREE to any
address. Just write your name and address across
this advertisement and post it to me with three
stamps to cover postage.
We specialise in high-class Box-
ing Gloves and shall be pleased
to supply prices on application.
&!»***«
mmmSmm.
mm
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,
158 Municipal Buildings, 82a Oxford Street (Comer Crown Street), SYDNEY.
The World’s Records
\
by Aeroplane; Motor-car,
Motor-cycle and Motor-boat
have been won on
[ IMKEfIeLD |
Rppff.
MOTOR. OIL \
British and Best.
C.C. Co. Ltd,
Sydney and London.
y
1
; ;
K
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Over the World*
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY
Box 229 U.P.0.,
MELBOURNF.
THE GLNERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
w
9
HEADACHE
and
.SORE,
THROAT
YOU FEEL
TOO ILL
TO GET
UP—BUT
there's an old and tested remedy which
will make you feel better immediately
and will cure you absolutely in two
days. When you wake up with a head-
ache and sore throat —
DON’T BE ALARMED! FEND OFF THAT
ATTACK OF ’FLU BY TAKING
GREATH EAD’S
MIXTURE.
Greathead’s is sold in generous-sized bottles, and one bottle is generally more than
enough to cure the most obstinate cold. It will also cure tonsilitis. bronchitis,
influenza, sore throat and quinsy. Never be without a bottle of Greathead s.
YOUR CHEMIST AND GROCER SELL IT!
AN EXCEPTIONAL SHIPMENT OF
THE CELEBRATED
“OMEGA”
Hair Clippers
Spare plates to cut three different lengths included.
12/0 per set. Posta s e 6d - extra -
A. A. MARKS. LIMITED.
Importers of Tobaccos, Cigars and Cigarettes,
Head Office: 376 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
SHOPS EVERYWHERE.
mm
m
iv
400
jM'M.
IRON-CLAD _
OIL IMMERSED SWITCH-GEAR.
i’his is undoubtedly the type most approved of nowadays by the highest electrical authorities
i| -teriaT has° Sen eliminated and superseded by mica
We** specialise it. such equipment suitable for the severest conditions of service, and all of which
S.JETS3, tte Mfflh BoardLof Trade regulations in mine. We -
OIL-COOLED TRANSFORMERS. MOTOR CONTROL btAK.
All are essentially British.
Manufacturers: Electrical
Apparatus Co M Ltd.
SOLE AGENTS:
Eondon.
HOMEWOOD & O’NEILL PTY., LTD.,
Head Office and
Workshop No. I
Workshop No. 2
Svdney Office . .
Warehouse .172-176 William Street, Melbourne
Somerset Place, Melbourne
Perrars Street, South Melbourne
375 George Str.eet
sdg
sdg
PERFECTION MARINE ENGINES
any size for Pearling Schooners,
Working Boats, Pleasure Launches,
Canoes, Dinghies, etc.
1
Fbwcnwltatf
2yi to 8 H.P.
Heavy Duty
Type.
An exceedingly sturdy
and reliable Single-
Cylinder model. Ideal
for the light launch
where engine space is
limited. Equipped
with weather-proof
igniter for certain
spark in all weathers.
MR. H. JORGENSEN, well-known Sijdney stevedore, writes:
I have been running one of your 4-h.p. marine engines_fitte v.i _
weather-proof igniter in my 20ft. In' 7ft. 6in beam double-endei "ork-bo. t
for last two vears using it dav and night m all weathers, boarding
incoming ships! I do 6 to 7 m.p.h., averaging 50 miles per 24 hours, and
am ofte g n 30 P miles out to sea' 1 will pleased to demonstrate no
engine to anyone requiring an outfit, as it has ne\er fail-d &
home. —(Signed) H. JORGENSEN.
Immediate Delivery from Stock
of Caille Perfection Outboard and Bantam (inboard) Motors,
also 1-, 2- and 4-cylinder types from 2 to 30 H.P., for light oi
heavy duty. Write for catalogue and all particulars to
SOT E AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA AND PACIFIC ISLANDS,
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney. 138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
344-6 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Cable Address—“Brosbenson.’
C. 364


Stylish Riding Hats—at Farmer’s.
Latest arrivals from Tress 8C Co. Ltd., London.
Smart Model Riding Hats now
showing at Farmer’s represent
the newest shapes and latest
innovations for comfort and
good service. The makers are
Tress 8C Co , the renowned
London firm, who are special-
ists in high-grade sports hats.
Black Fur Felt Riding Hat, entirely
new shape ; light weight, possesses
exceptional head comfort and is
luxuriously finished throughout.
Other shapes, having a slight-roll
brim and little narrower than
style illustrated. Price
63/-
Farmer’s : Sydney.
We Pay Carriage. Box 497, G.P.O.
>
r>
New Model
631 -
p.
CUP DAY!
Has Cup Day raced too swiftly upon your
field of calculation ? A Cup Day minus
a Cup frock is indeed a calamity, but
have no fears for lack of charming rai-
ment. There is a Shave model to adorn
you to a nicety.
On visiting Melbourne peep in at our
showrooms. We will tell our secret of
fashioning severe tailor suits and elabo-
rate gowns without fittings.
SHAVE,
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Centreway,
Melbourne.
mmK (ETOD^EBQ
—double tipped for double
wear —the guarantee with
every pair stipulating that
if finger tips wear through
before gloves are washed,
or have given reasonable
wear, gloves will be re-
placed free of charge.
P Ti
Your draper
should have
Vanity Fair
Silk Gloves.
Melbourne
Chatter
DISPLAY-BLOCK
Whence comes
all that is
exclusive
The cats are purring because at the mask
and domino ball at St. Kilda, Gaud Mayoress
Stein was seated at the far end of the supper
table, while the lady-elect ate sandwiches
with the vice-regal potentates miles away.
At least it looked that far.
Flo Young’s trouble is high blood-press-
ure. Though apparently in the best of
health, she had felt the strain of the heavy
rehearsals for “The Boy.” When she re-
turned to her flat from a tea-party she
collapsed, and, she has been fighting the grim
call-boy in Somerset House private hospital
ever since.
Although he is now so staid that old men
praise him and call him solid, and although
he was accompanied by his wife, Attorney-
General Arthur Robinson told the Get-
Together Club that he spent 10 hectic days
in Paris. Ho confessed that he no longer
wonders why the French people dote on ■ the il-
ea pita 1. If—but what’s the use of specu-
lating? .
The Frank Otters have flitted back to
London, and Menzies’ does not seem so lit
up without the ornate couple. It may have
been the pall of wowserism threatening Vic-
toria that hastened their departure. Otter
is a great supporter of the National Spin-t-
-ing Club in London, and is interested in
the pink-faced Winnings Post.
Launceston has been roused from its dull-
ness by the gaieties of its Show time. The
younger set had a jazz party for the benefit
of the Governor’s daughters, and the naval
Eardley Wilmots entertained Governor Allar-
dyce and his entire family at the hotel which
has Edward Wales’s monogram on some of
its linen. Covers were' laid for 30.
The Town Hall resembled a huge, russet-
colored octopus, with myriad electric eyes
glaring down on the human posters, at the
Newsboys’ Ball on Thursday night. Bad
weather partly accounted for the sparse
attendance; but jazzing at a guinea a head
under stern officialdom, when a whole even-
ing with a chosen fox-Hotter can be had
for a shilling, might account for a failing
interest in all charity hops. Anyway, there
wasn’t any special thrill, even in the vice-
regal entrance headed by two tireless aides—
without the ladies of the staff, though one
daily did describe the appeaarnce of the
G.-G.’s daughter. When the theatricals
arrived, led by tenor Hay and Frederick
Hobbs in plain dress suits, both leaders were
immediately annexed by the Norman Brookes
lady and introduced to some of the gilded
set.
Their Exes., who supped with the commit-
tee and Edith Onions, seemed puzzled as to
who really was first lead in the Municipal
show. Councillor Stapley did the vice-
regal round-up on the Gaud Mayor’s behalf;
but ex-Mayoress Stein, who shone to advan-
tage in ivory satin and a black choux, was
hedged in with the Mayoress-elect —she was
in black, with a huge silver-bead sunburst
on her back. The Stapley dame was with
them. -
The smart powder-headed set had an easy
winner for looks in Adelaide Napier, from
S. Australia, who is here to bridesmaid
Roma Clarke next month. One of the same
set puffed her fag in the vestibule within
view of the street. And another defied con-
vention and the ex-Mayoress by smoking in
the ballroom.
Buckley and Nunn’s winning poster, a
befrilled creation in magpie and very short
skirts, with enormous plumed head-dress, got
a turkey-gobbler effect in the fox-trot. The
frocking now and then was sensational. Mrs.
Norman Hodges, who danced mainly with a
big brother not yet in tails, was'swathed in
boneless cream brocade, with black back
panel and clear tulle bodice. Few figures
could stand it —none should. There was a
shell-pink harem confection which drew the
critics, and several shrunk shanks showed
cute garters.-
While in London, having his passages at
arms with the British Government, Arch-
bishop Mannix sheltered under the roof-tree
of Colonel Vaughan, who belongs to the
late Cardinal’s great tribe, and is further
linked to Australia by his marriage some
years ago with Mrs. Robert lTendergast. of
Sydney.
Benjamin Hoare, the old Age thunderer, is
shortly off to England on a 12 months’ holi-
day. Mrs. Hoare will go with him.
Eleanor Purves, daughter of the late
J.L., came back from London this week. She
did a lot of work in England during the war.
and has come home to see sister Beatrice,
who is the wife of Dr. Meade, of Terang.
Mrs. R. G. Casey is playing hostess.
Melbourne’s first Rose Day is booked for
November 3. It is to follow the lead of
Queen Alexandra's day in London, and will
rattle a collection-box for the Free Kinder-
garten Union. The Rose Society has its
show that day, and will give all the gate
money to the cause.
Melba is a godmother to a kindergarten,
and a stall will sell roses from .Coombe Cot-
tage. The Diggers at Caulfield Hospital are
hard at it making dainty pink Tudor roses
—the kind flappers put on their party-
frocks.
There was a big round-up of first-nighters
for the opening of “The Boy” at the Royal on
Saturday. The theatre was crammed and
every box was filled with population. In the
lower O.P. pen Mrs. Norman Menzies
(Dorothy Vane), in white, played hostess to
a couple of friends. The bay overhead
almost bulged with the pressure of the Taits,
and, opposite, Clyde Meynell gazed blandly
on the shifting scenes of the show* with pro-
ducers and other officials buzzing, around
him. Little Gracie I,avers also found a
place in the stalls, but she was comparatively
unnoticed beside Vera Pearce, who sailed
into the front row of the D.C. with her dark
Spanish beauty heightened by a magenta
wrap and a towering tortoise-shell comb.
The frocking behind the footlights was sweet
and flapperish in the case of Maude Fane, and
black and stately for the work of Ethel
Morrison ; but in the Chorus a .Cubist dress-
maker had evidently run riot in a prismatic
burlesque of long departed forms. There was
here and there a hint of the short-lived
hobble ; but, whatever the design of the skirt,
the girls were unanimous for a bodice that
allowed the maximum exhibition of back-
bone. Louise Larsson, by the way, made a
picturesque figure as a green and white
striped sprite, and once Nell Payne hopped
in as a dancer whose fancy had lightly turned
to pink, lavender and puce.
This is a photo, by Pegg Clarke, of Miss
Dora Wilson, whose pictures, in pastels, are
widely known i n
Australia. Just now
she has an exhibition
of her work in pas-
tels at the Decora-
tion Rooms in Mel-
bourne ; and her “La
Ballerina” has
caught many eyes
at the Women’s
Show in Sydney.
Formerly a student
at the Melbourne
Gallery, under the
late Fred McCubbin
and Bernard Hall,
the gifted Dora
turned her art to
good business ac-
count by gaining a
reputation as a spe-
cialist in children’s portraits, and examples
of her skill in that direction hang in many
a home in at least three States.
Toorakia’s Primrose Dames are very proud
of their achievement in returning Dr. Stan
Argyie to the Assembly, and thereby demon-
strating that the writ of the National
Federation does not run in their locality.
Argyie is a Melbourne graduate, and won a
majority as a war surgeon. Each House
will now have a medical man to guide it on
things like milk supply and sanitation.
Senator Keating’s pretty wife was called
upon to trip over to Tassy last week as the
result of the recent liquidation of Red
Cross balances. She is the foster-mother of
the Tasmanian Bush Nursing Association.,
and now that the Red Cross has bequeathed
as much as £lO,OOO to little Tassy, the
B.N.A. is going to expand, and its fortunes
need immediate attention.
The Girls’ Grammar heads and the Old
Girls of Merton Hall are anxious to get
Fairlie House, in South Yarra. Mrs. Her-
bert Deakin Brookes, one of their best
backers, dropped £lOOO into the hat. and
spoke on the subject at the school sports the
other day, with some results in cash and
comment. The idea is to pay the deposit
and let the premises to the Governor or
somebody till the debt is worked off. But
there will have to be a hustle, for other
people are also after Fairlie House.
Early in the morning marked off for
Henley Day the ice-cream men staked their
claims along drenched river-banks. They
clung to a forlorn hope for hours, and then
drifted away. Some of the competing crews
have bolted for home; others are held by
the lure of a holiday and a week’s expenses.
Henley will now clash with Derby Day;
but little harm will come to the gate-money.
The houseboats will get their crowds in the
evening.
Adelaide’s week: —
The Wei galls' trip to the Murray ended on Thurs-
day, when a special train landed them in Ade.aide
after 10 days spent in working downstream from
Paringa to Murray Bridge, close on 300 miles, and
calling at every settlement on the way. The tour
was planned so that his Ex. could get first-hand
knowledge of soldier-settlement and irrigation, and
that her Ex. could see for herself what is wanted
in the way of medical services. The upshot is that
hospitals are to be established at the larger settle-
ments, where there are none at present, and patients
from the smaller ones will, be taken to them by
motor or motor-launch ambulance. Settlers include
several ex-nurses and V.A.D.’s, and a move will be
made to organise them into a V.A.D. unit.
The Baby Week balance-sheet shows a profit of
£640 odd, the bulk of which goes to the School
for Mothers and the Queen’s Home. It is drear work
raising money for local charities now that the excite-
ment of war funds has fizzled out.
Sister McDonald, senior sister at the Westralian
Anzac Hostel, has been appointed matron of the
Ivalainunda Convalescent Farm. She is a S. Aus-
tralian whose war service dates from December, 1914,
when she was one of the staff of the hospital-ship
lvyarra.
It transpires that Bertram Mackennal, the sculp-
tor, got £5750 for his statue of Edward
VII. It was stipulated that he should be pro-
tected by accident and life insurance while he was
at the job ; and these items ran into £l2 and £162
respectively. It cost about £6OO to bring the work
from England, and the same to erect it.
Adelaide for Culture. The London Teleorai’ii
man who accompanied the Prince testifies that
Premier Harwell made “probably the best speech of
any State Minister since the tour began” ; also that
“the Adelaide levee was noticeable for the large
number of top-hats and frock coats, which easily
beat the records of other States in this respect and
reflected Adelaide’s traditional desire to observe the
conventions.” Adelaide must be like Boston —“a
place where respectability stalks about unchecked.”
Two Adelaideans returning from abroad are Fred-
eric Chappie, formerly headmaster of Prince Alfred
College, and Gordon Short, musician. Gordon was
studying in Germany when the guns began, and
spent the duration of the war at Ruhleben. lie :s
travelling by way of America and Maoriland, and
there is a Mrs. Short.
The Best People rustled into St. John’s.
Toorak, to hear pretty Beryl Loughnau
breathe her vows to Dr. Eddie Spowers. The
bride, who was handed over by Admiral
Creswell. dimpled effectively in white satin,
.shrouded with her great-grandmother’s
Limericlc-lace. wedding-veil. Sister Eileen
and a Spowers niece, Celia Spowers, brides-
maided in primrose-silk frocks with lace
flounces, topped with black tulle hats. Cap-
tain Allan Spowers, M.C., was his uncle’s
best man, with Gilbert a’Beckett as grooms-
man. The wedding tea raged at Aroona.
Mrs. Alec Landale’s place. Mrs. Alec is a
cousin of Mrs. Andrew Loughnan, the
bride’s mother.
In the midst of a happy throng of rela-
tives and friends, Mr. and Mrs. E. L. Bruce,
of Traralgon, had a “golden wedding” last
week. Mary Grant Bruce, their daughter,
is their link with a still wider circie m un-
rest of Australia. Lawyer W. M. Bruce is
the eldest son. Mrs. Bruce is a daughter
of William Whittaker, who held Tubutt
station, East Gippsland, 50 years ago.
Handsome Mrs. Adair, formerly an ordi-
nary Melbourne citizen, is on furlough from
the Indian home of theosophy. She talks
enthusiastically of Adyar, eight miles from
Madras, where Mrs. Besant’s remarkable
colony thrives and prospers. Mrs. Adair is
on the literary staff of the colony, whose
people find amusement in tennis and bath-
ing in the Bay of Bengal. A wonderful
library is another feature, and a feature of
that is a landscape painted upon a grain of
rice. Mrs. Adair is returning in November.
Meanwhile she is staying with her aunt,
Mrs. D. Elder, of Essendon.
The vexed question at the moment is,
Should officers’ widows be paid a higher pen-
sion than those of “other ranks”? Mrs.
Daisy Thompson, president of the W.A.
Commissioned Officers’ Widows’ Association,
whose Melbourne meeting ended in turmoil,
writes emphatic letters to the press, and is
answered with equal emphasis by Mrs. Annie
Woodburn, a quiet little woman usually, but
very stirred upon this point. It is all rather
a. pity.
The Parkville Brenans’ Quamby at pre-
sent resembles a casualty ward. Whilst
motoring at the Black Spur last week a car
containing a quintette of the sisters came
to grief when chauffeuse Eily endeavored
to dodge a child playing on the road. Drs.
Andy Brenan and Julian Smith have been
busy mending a dislocated shoulder, sprained
ankle, lacerated head, injured back and other
injuries. As Andy says, “It looks like a
dirty night in Dublin.”
Mercurial little Arthur Donnecker, who
sold anything from a silk handkerchief to a
steamship for Dalget.v’s, has pulled up stakes
and gone to Sydney, where he will look after
the interests of Victor Leggo. His Dal-
gety pals handed him an armful of vale-
dictory silver-plate before his exit. The
Savage Club will miss Arthur. Mrs. Arthur
was a Mattingley, sister of songstress Mabel.
The magnificent Bloomfield has just gone
off to Papua. He is the rouseabout member
of the rubber syndicate that holds Rupert
Clarke to its bosom.
Lieut. Ilanlon. who was in Melbourne
recently on furlough from Rabaul, has been
transferred to a .new military job. He has
gone to Etape—a country of gold, birds-of-
paradise and wild men near tne frontier of
Dutch New Guinea. Hanlon distinguished
himself, just before he left Rabaul, by going
inland with a posse of native police and
capturing four murderers, among them the
native who slew missionary Kirby.
It is quite an accident, of course, that the
date fixed for the Premiers’ Conference on
the acquisition of wheat for local consump-
tion should be the eve of the Derby. Tilings
do occur opportunely sometimes. The party
from N. S. Wales will number seven. William
Wheatstraw will no doubt pay.
Mrs. George Crespin offered a prize to the
collector of the greatest number of shilling
donations in response to the Queen Victoria
Hospital appeal. The winner wa.s Elsie
Holmes, of Swallow and Ariell’s. She col-
lected nearly £7O. Mrs. Crespin gave her a
tea-party at the Town Hall. And, as you
might expect from a girl like that, she
promptly dropped her £5 ss. prize into the
fund along with the rest.
The Adelaide firm which is prepared to
sell to the Commonwealth Einnemore's pic-
ture of the signing of the Peace Treaty for
1.000 guineas was guilty of an error in tac-
tics when it allowed the effort to be dis-
played in Queen's Hall. W. M. Hughes
and Joseph Cook are well in the centre ; but
Cook looks like a bearded and lopsided
cherub, and the artist has tried to make the
Prime Minister good-looking—-with disas-
trous results. The rest is bright paint.
But the guineas are brighter.
From the ashes of the Cafe Anglais in
Coll ins-street has arisen The Piccadilly. The
divinity of the premises is a little Joss of
Good Fortune with a lamp all to himself:
and he is assisted by artistically-carved
gargoyles, fitted round the rooms to
warn off bad spirits. But the main
feature at the opening was the cheery
crowd of guests, with a big sprink-
ling of ex-A.I.F. “caps” and “loots,” who
cast reminiscent glances at the decorative
London street name-lamps over the various
cosy corners —and thought of Germain and
Regent-street appointments past and to come.
The Dickens party, due in the Athenaeum
on November 8, is to be a wonderful affair.
Every performer is an elocution-teacher, and
the tickets are only 2s. 2d. Members of
the Fellowship may book a day ahead of
the advertised plan-opening.
That good-looking, well-nourished strip-
ling Billie Chisholm arrived back this week
by the ex-llun steamer Wahehe. After the
Armistice he secured several lucrative sing-
ing engagements on the other side, and
Williamson-Tait might do worse than give
the Digger minstrel a show here.
The widow Staughton gave a party at
St. Neot's last week for the Pearsons of
Kilmauy Park. It was also a welcome to
Teddy Cahill and George Brookes, who are
back from an Indian tour. Cahill played
and Brookes sang, and all the Naicest gath-
ered together and applauded.
Mrs. Warren Clarke also gave a Cahill-
Brookes party at the Alexandra Club, which
was crammed full. The pianist and the
tenor have been back only a fortnight, but
are already booked for a dozen Tooraketty
at-homes.
Except for the contralto’s vivid peacock
side-panel, there was never a note of color
in the recital run by Violet Somerset and
Nellie Billings at the Assembly Hall on
Thursday night. Violet warmed a little
towards the close, and especially excelled
in three foreign fragments. I’ianiste Nellie
Billings went to work in a business-like
manner on a delicious instrument. ( Her
playing of Chopin’s group and Liszt’s “Night-
ingale” brought down a shower of applause.
There was some elegance about the audi-
ence. Mrs. Colin Fraser wrapped her slen-
der self in brocaded pink and marabout, and
the Herbert Brookes dame came in green
with the Deakin aunt.
Professor Allen and his wife gathered a
few hundred friends together on Sunday
afternoon to meet Allan Wilkie and Miss
Hunter-Watts; and all the leading high-
brows and social elect turned up. The three
Allen daughters helped to make things
cheery. Frediswyde looked picturesque in
a long cloak and black hat.
The tea to Vera Pearce and Ivy Shilling
at Menzies’ on Friday afternoon was a hearty
affair, and there was a chair for everyone.
But the artistic decorations included no Ivy.
the dancing Shilling having hurt her ankle at
rehearsal. Handsome Vera wore dark-green
silken draperies with an ermine wrap and
picture hat. She was handed a shower
bouquet of damask roses. Ivy’s unclaimed
trophy of pansies was given into the keep-
ing of Mr. Bob Greig.


From Georoe the Third
To George the Fifth
One Hundred years long
Born IS2O. Still going
m
r
o
rv
v.
is
\
n:
r
sS
u
$
Y
\/A
fet
ffS
CS
m^w
x.
VS
V"-
;5X
r
&XE3SC*
«
ffifs
©
o
9
T}
i
f
r
*
V
/
u
\
iv
v>
w
/
V
\l
s/
v
V
«ra»
V
%
l
y^s>
1/
A
s
O
i
o
V
40HMMIC WALKER TRAVEL SERIES. lA 0 INDIA.
Tourist : “Is that a genuine antique ? ”
Johnnie Walker: “Yes— it is at least one hundred years old—So am I.
»»
.am© flualiry - a
JOHN WALKER & SONS. LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND


BMQ
H6l
yiDiisaHH
SJIWIO
■f.
T
HE PLUS'DLTRfI
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
BOND’S TRIPLEWEAR HOSE.
AN IDEAL. HOSE,
combining: wonderful wear with beautiful
appearance.
Retail Selling Price, 12/11 per pair.
Made in Australia.
sd
gsd
Oriental
Hote
is accepted as Vic-
to r i a’s greatest
achievement in fashion-
able hotel service. It
is distinguished by its
sumptuous appoint-
ments, service and
environment, and
offers the tourist alto-
gether delightful ac-
commodation.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club.)
g
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Dayid JOnes
SYDNEY.
Feeling the need of more slippered ease
than the Challis Chair of Modern Litera-
ture can offer him, Professor MacCallum has
decided to retire; so academic Sydney poured
into'the Great Hall on Friday night to show
its appreciation of the Professor’s lifetime
of sowing and reaping. The Great Tlall,
with its clusters of lights set high against
the grey stone walls, resembled some gusty
baronial hall lit by wind-blown torches
stuck in sconces. The blessed were seated ;
the doorway and hall were hung with the
colored wraps of the foolish virgins who
arrived fashionably late. The Professor
gleaned an illuminated address, exquisitely
wrought, and Mrs. MacCallum a black-
headed handbag. Vice-Chancellor Justice
® erguson had ,a guiding hand in the demon-
stration, and the newly-knighted Edgworth
Davids were among the big fish in the Pro-
fessorial pond, where Warrens, the
Stewarts, the Garnseys, the Watts and the
Barffs also played about.
Minister Mutch, after promising the
Women Painters to open their show
on Monday, sent them a note at 11
o’clock on Saturday morning that he would
be unable to be present—he had “decided to
go to Goulburn.” A party from Govern-
ment House has also gone up to the south-
western town to help it crow over its cen-
tury.
St, Philip’s, Church Hill, was bursting
witlp the top-note of the social scale when
ex-premier and Agent-General and present
Justice Wade gave away daughter Lorna
Gregory on a warm, moonlit nignt last week,
Bishop Long (Bathurst) and Canon Bel-
lingham mooring her with book and bell
and candle to Thomas Cotton Young, fourth
son of the W. J. Youngs, of Moss Vale and
Queensland. The wedding-dress was a
scrumptious affair of ivory chiffon velvet,
its classic drapings poetically secured by a
November lily. Tne train was of real fairy-
tale architecture, being founded on cloth of
silver, with silver and velvet lilies blooming
thickly upon it; a tulle veil, orange blossom,
lilies of the valley and white roses finished
oil the slim, dark bride’s grandeur, ,which
was escorted by three cream satin-and-iace
frocks, with rainbow-ribbon girdles, worn
by bride’s twin sister Doris,' Helen Faithfull
and Jocelyn Joseland ; and they all wreathed
their youthful brows in brown tulle caps fin-
ished off with leafy chaplets, and carried
armsful of gracious lilac mixed with pink
roses. Bridegropm’s chum, Hoy Kerr, was
best man, and the groomsmen were Bex
Linsley, Frank Wade and Alec Mackenzie.
Bertram Wade, poured out the family’s
appreciation of the match in “A Song of
Thanksgiving” while bride and ’groom were
setting their mark upon the register, and
there was no drawing back. The Wade
knight and his lady (mostly silver tissue
and deep-blue tones) passed around wedding-
cake and jazz at the Wentworth to 500-odd
guests, who included all the Justices and
their wives, Medicine, Law, Science and
Trade that has swollen into Commerce; and
Mrs. Sep Levy, Mrs. Morton and Mrs.
George Vivers leavened the mass with eye-
arresting toilets.
For the eighth time the old High School
girls tucked a dinner on to their annual
re-union, which is now in its 22nd year.
They held the jamboree at the Pekin Cafe,
and the school’s achievements were welcomed
by former-principal Mrs. Garvan and its
present head, Miss Campbell. Amy Mack
Harrison, Lucy Gullett, Emma Buckley,
Hilda Caro and Mrs. J. T. Ralston were
among those who appreciatively fingered the
menus tied up with brown ribbon, with a
photograph that looked like an etching of
the old school, so soon to be erased by Pro-
gress. And. talking, about Progress, tiie Old
Girls reminded one another that their school
gave the first woman-doctor and woman-
lawyer to Sydney.
The Bankers’ Ball has a plutocratic sound
about it; and when 16 banks (the B.N.Z.
and the French Bank were the only
ones not represented) suddenly empty into
one room the perfect jewels they generally
keep hidden behind the adding machines, you
can imagine that the Town Hall is a scin-
tillating. iridescent Arabian Nights’ enter-
tainment. Pretty girls bloomed everywhere
from the most radiant frocks; whatever
sartorial repression the Banking Chamber
inay insist upon was flung moon-high, and
.. red ® and , yellows and greens went
flaunting by telling of youth and romance
“ s ß lte ol comptometers and balances that
wont come right. Rock Phillips had
f esigned the decorations, which were all
minting and long paper streamers that
dimmed the hard arc-lights of the hall.
Around the galleries hung the rose-encircled
yellow lights and the flower-brimmed baskets
tnat made Her Majesty’s an Arcadian bower
toiv the Royal Edward. The Williamson-
rait entente loaned all the outward signs of
festivity, which didn’t look a bit the worse
tor wear. Those unsung heroines, the V.A.’s,
were once more on duty; and whilst their
danced, the Red Cross aids of Prince
Allied s (whose overdraft would be reduced
h.y nearly £5OO as a result of the night)
formed guards of honor for vice-regality, and
served at buffet and supper-table. Vice-
regality came on at 10.30. from their wedding
anniversary dinner-party at Government
House and brought Aide Lamb, Dame Mar-
garet s brother Geoffrey and the faithful
Miss Henderson. On the dais, among the
sca.grass chairs, were Russell French and his
wite, and Denison Miller and his lady in
black and his two sisters in trained brocade
rocks, with tufts of fur at unexpected
moments and long pearl necklaces. The
untiring committee had knowledge of their
Exes, wedding anniversary, and had deco-
lated the supper-table with lilac to honor
the event.
. The Arts and Grafters show their wares
in the Education Gallery, and on Friday
Dame Margaret poured her blessing on the
exhibition on the rafia cushions, the ideal
thing, for verandah or launch seats; the
daintily-embroidered trifles, with waratah
and Christmas-bell designs; the tapestry by
Miss Lush, straight from the Kensington
Art School. There’s a deck chair with
leather replacing the old-time canvas, and a
leather cushion headrest—the last word in
comfort for a smoking den. China-painter
Miss JNewman is again among the lucky ones
whose work has been purchased by the
National Gallery, an exquisite blue-toned
ceaset and a vase in reds being added to the
collection of her craft already there. Pottery-
worker Miss Cornish caught the Gallery
buyers eye with a yellow vase, craftswoman
Young sold them a well-wrought leather
notebook, Gordon Holdsworth from West-
ralia sends a casket that might have been
i andora’s, and Maorilander Mrs. Algie lumped
herself to Gallery recognition with an injur-
ing silver spoon.
A woman at the Randwick Spring meet-
ing wore a turn-out of bright-red jersey silk,
the skirt of which bore a device of tall palms
and pyramids done in black, suggesting a bit
of Egypt silhouetted against an Oriental sun-
set. Why not something Australian next
time—say a design of gum-trees and slip-
rails, with a native bear or two, and Brer
Rabbit peeping through the fence?
Dorothy Beedham exhibited at the Art
Society’s Show for the first time last year,
when two of her
clever etchings were
bought for the
National Gallery.
This year four of
he r wor k s were
bought. She is from
A 1 f red Coffey’s
studio, and since her
master ha s joined
the staff of the Uni-
versity she has taken
over his teaching
connection. Her
chief work consists
of designs and etch-
ings. for which she
has a ready sale.
This photo was
taken by her soldier
brother.
At St. James’s one night last week Justin
\ aughan Flynn let poetry loose upon the
earth, while a young moon like a silver
rose uncurled its listening petals in the sky.
Justin Vaughan, like Homer, had heard men
sing by land and sea, and had helped him-
self to large handsful. The result was a
procession of Australian poets in picture and
song, from old-timers like Gordon, Brunton
Stephens and Kendall, on to Victor Daley
Will Ogilvie and Clancy of the Overflow!
The newest generation of poets and poetesses
“lied row after row of chairs. Ernestine
Hemmings brought her large grave eyes to
the feast, and Lola Gornall a long string
of pearls. But the younger bards were
doomed to disappointment, for their
ing notes had all got cracked beyond screen-
ing, and as the hand that reels the film rules
the world, the youngsters were thrust into
outer darkness. Rod Quinn hung a bashful
bead while, his big, surprised eyes looked
out from the screen and he moralised about
fishing for stars in the sea. But the women
take these things better. Mary Gilmore sat
UP and grimly stared at her photographed
self till her last word died into silken silence ;
and the social end was kept up by Dorothea
Maekellar, who was screened in full evenin°--
dress.
Maitland, elder daughter of the Germain
MacMickings, of Manus, Tumbarumba, has
promised to marry Jock Maclellan, youngest
son of the John Maclellans, of Longdale,
Windsor, Melbourne. Bride-elect is just
20, and one of the third generation to live
on the Itiverina station where ex-G.-G. Fer-
guson loved to browse in the library contain-
ing rare editions by Scotch writers. She
was in Sydney last week, and then left with
her aunt, Mrs. Sprott-Boyd, for Arizona.
Before she sailed Captain Reynolds, of Vic-
toria Barracks, and Mrs. Reynolds gave a
dinner-dance at the Wentworth in her honor'.
Bridegroom is 24, and at Cambridge Uni.
It s not yet decided whether the wedding will
be in America or in Melbourne, where the
home of the young people will be.
r I lie Glad ’Uns and the Merrymakers (and
everybody knows what good friends to the
Soldiers Funds they have been) threw an
old shoe after the honeymoon car the other
day when Helena Macdonnel, one of their
songandancers, went off with newly-acquired
husband John Stuart Weekes. St. James’s
saw the ceremony, and Padre A. Micklem
tied the knot.
When Dorothea Ruth Wotton, of the Bank
of N. S. Wales, and daughter of the W. E.
VYottons. of Marengo, volunteered for service
in Fiji, she sailed straight to the port of mat-
rimony and tied up at the heart of Lionel St.
George Ryder, of Suva. So Dorothea Ruth,
who had served her probation in Parramatta
and North Sydney, duly returned to her native
land, and she and Lionel became one at
St. John s Church, Young, at the hands of
the Rev. S. A. Champion, rector. Bride’s
sisters Marie , and Kitty, in primrose georg-
ette black tulle hats, were in attend-
ance. Keith Davison was best man and
( live Hume groomsman. The Royal Hotel
saw the beano.
Stott and Iloare’s took its typewriter
.°m. behind its ear to send out wedding in-
vitations on behalf of Manager Glen Dobell,
who married Vivienne Weston, of Drum-
moyne, in St. James’s last week. The usual
spoils of ivory satin and tulle and taffeta
and lace were divided by the bride and her
bridesmaid-sister Kathleen ; and the Austra-
lia handed out the buns and ginger-bqer.
Pianist and organist Vern Barnett married
his little widow on Wednesday of
last week. She was the small and sparkling
Mrs. Trevor Jones, whose tenor husband
succumbed to the ’flu early last vear.
F. L. Flannery, one of Sydney’s youngest
barristers and a Digger who knew both Gal-
lipoli and France, married his best-girl, Ina
Sloane, of Morilla station. Young, at All
Saints’, Woollahra, early on Saturday even-
ing, beating a storm that later on made the
night untidy. The bride was in rich white
brocaded satin embroidered in pearls and
silver, and she carried a Honiton-lace veil,
a court train and a large pale-pink bouquet.
Sisters Belle and Bertha Sloane were brides-
maids in apricot-shot taffeta. Reception at
Glenstrae, the Sloanes’ Woollahra home;
and Melbourne and Mulwala station divide
the honeymoon honors.
The engagement is announced of Oriel,
daughter of Robert Wilson, of Lake Cowal,
and Herwald G. Kirkpatrick, eldest son of
the John Kirkpatricks, of Logan Brae, Belle-
vue Hill. Groom-to-be is a member of the
energetic firm of architects that Sydney has
heard a lot about lately.
Everybody remembers the Queensland lady
who was asked to place her house at the
Prince’s disposal, and who, to make it worthy
of the Royal offshoot, brought out all the
family treasures, and had some rooms
altered and the handsome old furniture
judiciously renovated. When the time ar-
rived for the party a telephone message came
from some place where the fun was fast and
furious that the Prince couldn’t face the bad
roads owing to the recent rain; and the
party came off without him. Later the
Queenslander received a card inviting her to
dine in company with his Royal Highness,
and this time it was the Queenslander
who_ sent her regrets (Prince or no Prince),
“owing to the bad condition of the roads.”
The Harold Masons, who have a cousinly
connection with the Mark Foys, gave a party
at Caloola, their Darling Point home, to
welcome Mrs. Mark and daughters Maxine
and Shelagh (that’s Sheila in Sunday clo-
thes). The ballroom, white and gold, was
planted around with what looked like young
trees of lilac; and the two Foy girls' wore
their hair slicked back from their forehead
and curled about each ear in the newest
American style. Shtdagh wore pink miroir
velvet, and Maxine moonlight-blue tulle shot
with silver.
A junart dance was given by the Markses
of Ivundabar to say au revolt —-they are
soon to sail for Europe—and to welcome
young nephew Cohen, who is a grandson of
George Judah. The young man is good
looking and addicted to singing in a well-
trained, luscious voice. Very young daugh-
ter Gwen, in yellow, helped mother to enter-
tain ; aunt Mrs. Sep Levy, in French grey
and blue, shed her light on the assemblage ;
and the double drawing-room, which was
used for dancing, kindly shed its lights
through little yellow petticoats. The supper
was “continuous.”
Violinist Daisy Kennedy Moiseiwitsch
sailed by the Sonoma on the ISth, accom-
panied by her small daughter, quite recov-
ered from measles. A night or two earlier
she was farewellecl at the Whear Roberts
stronghold in Summer Hill by cousin Wynne,
and carried off first prize in a guessing com-
petition after a strenuous day with taxa-
tion departments.
As soon as the sweeping and garnishing are
done the Philip Mortons take possession of
Orwell. The Moses family has pulled up
sticks from the old Faithfull home, Wilga, at
Potts Point; and the Stewart Dawsons move
in at any moment.
Miss O’Keefe, Dayid Jones’s Fashion
Queen, is lying ill at Molong private hospital
—an abscess behind an ear is among the
other troubles that have kept her a-bed for
nearly six weeks.
Clarence R. Moss is the general secretary
of the Sydney (Royal Alexandra) Hospital
for Children, and
through the ha r d
work of him and his
helpers it hopes to
gain its sixty-thou-
sand objective. The
other day, after ten
minutes’ talk, Tat-
tersall’s Club sub-
scribed £615 to the
fund, and the follow-
ing day poor-relation
City Tattersall’s,
with just as big a
heart, made up £385.
T h e wharfies and
lumpers are great
friends since the
kiddies’ hospital had
a few heart-to-hearts
with them during
the mid-day spell-oh, and a constant stream
of money keeps trickling in from the back-
ways of the big, warm-hearted city.
On Saturday, at Blenheim, the Burwood
home of Mrs. Octavius Beale, a f§te was
held in aid of St. Luke’s Hospital. Ideal
weather, a garden blue with lupin and lark-
spur, and an enthusiastic committee com-
bined to make it a success. Every room
in the house appeared to hold some money-
extracting device, and, outside, pony rides,
sliding chutes and races on the lawn kept
the small people happy. It was a kiddies’
afternoon. The adults had had their party
on Thursday evening, when an amateur per-
formance of “A Bath Comedy” was given
in the ballroom at Blenheim.' Two of the
dresses, lent by Mrs. Ashby Osborne, were
stitched more than a hundred years ago.
Mrs. Beale, as president of the local com-
mittee, will hand over about £llO to the
new hospital.
The Housewives’ Association has opened
a market in, Randwick. Fruit and vegetables,
flowers and poultry are on sale as early as
six in the morning on market days, and on
the opening morning the ©ustomers descended
upon the stalls like the Assyrian upon the
fold.
In David Barker’s little show at Gayfield
>Shaw s rooms there is sun and warmth in
oils- that place quite a modest price upon
themselves. “Summer,” which rises to the
height of 12 guineas, is a harbor headland
with whispering grasses, two sentinel trees
making blue-green eyes at the wind-swept
waters beyond. In etchings Judaia, Jerusa-
lem, Jaffa and Bethlehem leap out from door-
way, pillar and arch. “Balmoral Beach” is
an exquisite corner nearer home, but the
fancy still loves to cling around the Bagdad
coffee-shop and the doorway in Judsea.
The Syrians in Sydney rejoiced and were
glad at the Paddington Town Hall last week
because Alt. Lebanon and Syria are no
longer under the heel of the Turk, but in
the potter’s hand of France. The French
Consular Campanas were present to witness
the gladness of the Syrian Maronite. Pre-
sident J. Bellamy passed on the congratula-
tory speeches, and vice-president Allen’s
wife proved herself a capable organiser.
Marie Bjelke Petersen is off to her Tas-
manian- home. She has effused into still
another novel; and there’s some idea of film-
in 2 rs *- two —“The Immortal Flame”
and The Captive Singer.”
Lang W„nt has given up being a squatter
and bloomed as the principal figure in
Australian Motors, Ltd. The idea is to
meet the case of those who are sick of the
wavs of the modern chauffeur. All his
drivers are ex-A.I.F. men, and there is a
fleet of 25 vehicles to choose from. Lang
Want married one of the Queensland New-
tons a dozen years ago—a sister of the young
A.D.C. who wedded Miss Verney. Mrs.
Herbert Allen and Mrs. Charles Cape are
sisters of his.
Mrs. Tom Dixson —her house in order —
has left for England with the children;
and Cissie Jamieson is off to America by the
Niagara.


I -
ESTB
1855
JEWELLERS
High Quality
Bracelet Watches. '
For qualitv, design and reliability, Hardy Bros.’ large and
varied selection of Bracelet Watches is unsurpassed in the
Commonwealth. All Watches stocked by the Company are
fitted with Ilighest-grade Movements, and are guaranteed
accurate timekeepers.
Illustrated catalogues are sent post free on
request, and selections are forwarded to the
country for approval, if desired.
18et. Gold and Platinum-laced, Bevelled-edge Watch,
a new model, highest grade Swiss movement, on
Platinum-fronted Expanding Bracelet, in case,
£52 10 0
18ct. Gold Watch, with highest-grade movement,
on 15ct. Gold Expanding Bracelet, in case,
£3O 0 0
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
JJ6-118 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
London.
298 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
HARRINGTONS’
METALLURGICAL WORKS
and LABORATORIES.
ASSAYERS of Alloys, Ores, Fuels, Metallurgical Products, etc.
Technical Representatives in transactions of Ores and
Metals.
REFINERS of Lemels, Gold and Silver Bullion, Optical and Dental
Scrap, Spent Baths, Stripping Solution, Gilders
Solution. Specialists in the refinement of Platiniferous
Bullion and Residues.
SMELTERS of Sweeps, Polishings, Handwash, Silverers Blankets
and any material containing precious metals.
MANUFACTURERS of “Perfection” DENTAL ALLOY, Dental
Golds, Solders, Platinised Wires and Metallurgical
requisites for the DENTAL PROFESSION.
(By arrangement) of Johnson s Scales Brand Silver
Nitrate and Gold Chloride for GLASS SILVERERS,
ELECTRO-PLATERS, PROCESS ENGRAVERS.
SUPPLIERS of Fine and Standard Gold, Fine and Standard Silver,
Fine Platinum and Platinum Alloys, Electrolytic
Copper, Cyanide, etc., for MANUFACTURING
JEWELLERS.
u_
“THE INDUSTRIAL
METALLURGISTS”
AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND.
3»6 George Street, Sydney.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
144 Queen Street, Auckland.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Works and Laboratories: Booth and Trafalgar Streets, Annandale, N.S.W.
We have just completed an immense Purchase of High-grade imported
Suitings at a price much below the actual cost of manufacture in Britain.
These splendid Suitings consist of newest season’s designs in real Scotch
Tweeds, West of England Cashmeres, and fine Worsteds, in Stripes, Ch&'ks,
Diagonals, Herringbones and various other suitable designs for Summer
Wear. The underlying bedrock principle of our business is to buy the
very best material possible for cash, and sell at
MELBOURNE’S LOWEST PRICES-ALWAYS.
We are therefore offering these tine-grade Summer Suitings, which are
usually sold at 15 guineas, at the special price of
These Suits will be hand-
tailored and the trimmings will
be in keeping with the high-
grade Materials which are from
the looms of the Best English
and Scottish Manufacturers.
This is an example of what
the public may gain by taking
advantage of the selling policy
at Buckley’s.
In writing for Patterns and
Self-Measurement form please
quote No. RlOO.
We Pay Carriage.
Remember you are only dis-
tant from us as far as the
nearest post office.
«i lt
m
BUCKLEYS
BUCKLEY l NUNN LTD. BOUR.KE ST. MELBOURNE
MAIL ORDER SERVICE
WE PAY CARRIAGE
TO ANY POST OFFICE
RAJ LWAY STN.OR PQR*
in AUSTRALIA
'fee*'
MM
L
11 ;
vss
(#
<6/.I
rs
%
w
X
$)
• •
m
>%\
w
Hr
ia
-y/
W
V
• •
jgg^
X
pure fooo^
BSP
Gmm
HOORAY FOR LUNCHTIME
After the morning's study the youngsters’ healthy appetites simply
crave for good food.
They need something that is not only tasty but sustainingly healthful.
Give them a good lunch of —
REX CAMP PIE .
sandwiches, and they will have their appetite’s desire.
It is made from choice cuts of prime meat seasoned delicately-
cooked correctly, thus saving you all worry.
Try also Rex Ham Pate or Rex Veal and Tongue Pate—the sandwich
spreads that are all pure meat. Sold everywhere.
Packed by—
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products
Curers of “Rex" Hams and Bacon
J 2990


“There’s Money
in the Pen.”
If you wish to fol-
low a lucrative, re-
fined and pleasant
occupation—
Learn to Draw.
If you wish to
amuse your friends
and afford yourself
endless pleasure—
Learn to Draw.
sdg
Learn
to
Draw
by
MaiL
The Harry J. Weston School of Drawing is
based on the actual methods and experience
of one of Australia’s most successful com-
mercial artists. It cuts out the drudgery,
and is full of interest from the first lesson.
It touches how to DRAW, not merely to
COPY. Many pupils have more than paid
for I heir course before it was completed by
the sale of their own work.
Send three stamps to cover postage, and we
will forward you our illustrated booklet,
“There's Money in the Pen.” It tells you
all about the original “Weston Method,”
fees, etc.
The Harry J. Weston Postal
School of Drawing,
I'f Union House, corner George and
Grosvenor Streets. SYDNEY.
architects, artists, designers,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
BRITISH
MADE
Per?ecticm
f> i rs' h: r u bber
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to: CASA TORRE, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, S. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
sdg
High Mark
of Quality
ABBEY SHOES!
Our Footwear bears all the marks of
distinction in quality and style.
The illustration features a high-grade
Patent Derby Bal. in a smart “made-to-
order” style.
PRICE, 84/-
In Tan Willow Calf, 67/6.
Stocked in half-sizes, and narrow, medium
and wide fittings.
POSTAGE EXTRA.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
rA P&N
Canno
Cleanj i
ILegula
Brit^h
A»k for ONOrp , N/(
a^K.
elf
cure.
8e st for all Pen*
SPARKLETS
are back, again!
|ifejyeg}g noMiir;iinoj pposy |
ni
With a Sparklet Syphon you can make
a quart of delicious soda water as easily
as a pot of tea. And the cost is trifling com-
pared with bottled soda. For summer com-
fort, no home should be without a Sparklet
Syphon. Available all Chemists and Stores.
If you have a Sparklet syphon that is out of order
through being stored away, send the Coupon below
for Free Spare Parts.
FREE COUPON
To SPARKLETS LTD., 42 Pitt St., Sydney,
‘Please send me Free of Charge new Rubber tVashers
and Pin for Sparklet Spyhon bought about 19
Name
aAddress
S.H., 28/10/’2>
SUPPLIED TO DEFENCE DEPT. FOR MILITARY HOSPITALS.
An Ideal Treatment for
INDIGESTION GASTRITIS
and
ALL STOMACH AILMENTS
All Chemists and Stores, in tins, 2 6 and 4/6.
[2
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per day, or from
Four Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
We Desire
to Buy
ds
PLATINUM, at £2O per ounce.
OLD GOLD and SILVER, for
Melting Purposes.
DIAMONDS, PEARLS and other
Fine Gems.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,Sydney!
Legal Notice.
TN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE.
1 C. No. 2247.
CHANCERY DIVISION.
MR. JUSTICE PETERSON (By Certificate).
BETWEEN MARY ELIZABETH CHARLTON Wife
of Edward Brown Charlton Plaintiff and JAMES
TRENDELL CHARLES TRENDELL and FRED-
ERICK TRENDELL Defendants.
TO FREDERICK TRENDELL of Sydney New South
Wales Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that this action was on the Bth
day of July 1920 commenced against you and that
the Plaintiff by her Originating Summons claims
under the Rules of the Supreme Court Order LV 5a
that an account may be taken of what is due to the
Plaintiff under and by virtue of an Indenture of
Mortgage dated the 30th day of August 1906 and
made between Harold James Bate of the one part
and the Plaintiff of the other part the said Harold
James Bate having by an Indenture dated 17th
October 1906 assigned all his equity of redemption in
the hereditaments and premises comprised in the
said Indenture of Mortgage to the defendants sub-
ject to the said Indenture of Mortgage and for her
costs of this Action that the Plaintiff is in posses-
sion of the said hereditaments and premises
under an Order of this Honorable Court dated Ist
December 1915 and that the said Mortgage may be
enforced by foreclosure or sale.
AND take notice that the Court has by order made
in this action and dated the 11th day of August
1920 authorised the issue of a Concurrent Originating
Summons and ordered that the insertion of this
Advertisement in a Sydney newspaper be deemed good
and sufficient service of the said Concurrent Origina-
ting Summons on you.
AND further take notice that you are required
within ninety-four days after the insertion of this
advertisement inclusive of the day of such insertion
to cause an appearance to be entered for you at
Thf Central Office Royal Courts of Justice Strand
London and that in default of your so doing the
Plaintiff may proceed with this action and judgment
may be given against you in your absence.
Dated this 26th day of August 1920.
TIMBRELL & DEIGHTON.
90 Cannon Street, London, E.C. 4,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
a
(LE»JLtt)OL. SPARKLING
KING Of TABLE WATERS
tofttaim Limp,$oddJLiHiid« Magnesia
AGENTS /o
<1
Melbom-nc* Balla*v*<
PURVEYORS 10 VICE ROYALTY.
frnfdnc y
w
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
H.F.P.: Yes, perhaps that should be
said, too—for the Digger with T.B. to get the special
pension of £8 per fortnight he must be certified to
be “totally and permanently incapacitated.’’
. ...Clar: Nobody believes that sort of yarn
unless you furnish it with accessories—place, date
and so on.. . .8.N.J.: Those corsets are nearly worn
out n0w.... Ted: We'll do what we can for you,
but there are many knocking at that door.. .T.8.W.:
“Panyiddy” tells us that Urunga is the Kumalpi
(W.A.) abo.’s word for good, or a good thing.
Woolyen is the opposite. .. .R.S.C.: “Colonial Pup’’
no good. Get it into your head that Australians
ceased to be “colonials” 20 years ago. . . .L.K.R.:
Very crude yarn... .Guy Rope: Why must the spirit
warning always come in an idiotic way ?. ... .Natilie
F.: It was a burning question 50 years ago; but it
settled itself somewhere about 1875. Now you want
to reverse the he and she all through it. . . .Sadie U.:
You haven’t the knack.... Freck: About as lively as
the funeral of a decayed pumpkin... .C.R.8.: Not
up, but the verse is pleasing enough.... Douglas F.:
“When I Die” is all right in sentiment, but the verse
is pretty' bad... .A.F.8.: Rather machine-made; and
the idea is very 01d.... Bill O’B. : “Last March” is
well done, but the same sort of thing has been too
frequent... .J.C.G.: Can’t find a smile in any of
them. .. . G.A.J.: The yarn doesn’t work. ...Kuraya:
Don’t like it.... Glen J.: If you take a theme that
has been handled a million times you must at least
find some new way of treating it H.G.C.: Not
up H.T.J.: Grammar goes mad at the fourth line.
... .Cedric S.: You write an ode to a “Skylark” and
in the first stanza rhyme “near it” with “spirit,”
copying Shelley’s blunder without his excuse....
D.M.C.: You don’t contrive to make it mean much.
....Philip A.: Verse no good. See the length of
matter we print and judge by that Sparta: They
couldn’t quite keep us awake on a heavy afternoon.
. ..R.X.J.: Doesn’t get near C.R. (Wollongong):
Uninteresting. .. .J.W.D.: It hasn’t the quality....
Alfred 11. G.: “Sure Signs of Nervous Breakdown” is
a gem :
... .Aloy,sius K.: Yours is a Cooper’s Creek yarn—
goes on and on until it loses itself A.M.11.: None
of them well enough done Coringa: Not meat
enough in the dog romance... . Boj: “Dead-uns”
doesn’t move a whisker. ... E.T.M.: Not quite....
H.E.D.: Narrowly misses distinction as a shocking
example.... Poetic: We can “excuse the smudge,”
but not the rest T.J.8.C.: It reaches the limit
of commonplace. .. .Chunjoberry: “Disqualified”
nearly; “Blue Nobby” so rough it shook two teeth
loose. .. .Doxite: No O. V. Twist: “Why use
superfluous words, waste good ink, spend valuable
time and unnecessarily cover space when one word
suffices?” Well, why? You take three pages of
verbiage to introduce your baby—and then it turns
out to be a grandfather at the very least W.W.
(Tongata) : Not a bad idea, but you’ll have to put
better work into the verse. . . .Ribbon-stone: Very
rugged....Birdy: No, thank you. .. .Harry II.: Not
for u5....R.H. (St. liilda) : Not enough thought or
skill... .M.E.8.: Those questions in hoppy, common-
place verse are maddening Josephine 6.: Not bad
for 14, but a child’s voice should be fresher. ...S.
Tree: Not so ridiculous, perhaps. A man can have
two nationalities. Anyway, there are men who are
certainly American citizens when they are in the
United States and are assured that they are British
subjects in Australia, their parents' having been born
in Canada or some other British territory.... Oliver
B.: “Plain Facts” gets to the very heart of the
matter:—
C.N.G.: Stiff and creaky R.R.D.: It has no
punch... .H.R.M.: “Downfall” doesn’t contrive to
sound true.. .P.H.S.: Sorry can't do it by post. This
is the lay of the copy-reader:—
My curses, like chickens, may come home to roost,
But they roost in a very high tree;
It’s the blessings and praise that I sometimes have
loosed
That walk around pecking at me.
For if I but mention a thing I admire
Or declare it is clever and bright
I’ll find that to meet with the praisee’s desire
1 have forty-nine letters to write.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C. 8.: The beach johnnie made his hat out of an
old doormat. .. .L. 8.: Why is the male fashion-plate
wearing an evening-dress coat in the afternoon ? Is
it because he had an appointment with the lady
whose right hand is withered and whose head is four
sizes too large?... .F.W.: Too many specks....
A.J.McR.: You’re in the promising stage. Peg away.
. ...A.T.: Playground production. We forgive the
libel on happy childhood.... Horace C.: In the draw-
ing of the freak curate and the wax swaggie we like
best the intelligent look of the curly-haired horse
who has turned to. listen to the conversation....
E.C.: Having placed your rooster about 300 yards
from the reader, you have to draw it as big as an
emu. Art has its problems G.H.W.: Less like
a cartoon than a design for a stained-glass window.
....Alec: A dismal pair H.L.J.: Too wiry....
G.8.D.: Well, it’s darned bad A. 8.: So feeble
that the Art Editor rushed to get it stimulants....
G.11.A.: It won’t squash him in this paper.... -
C.M.R.E.: Try again with proper materials
E.W.: Some humor, but you’re a green artist yet
and tliat sort of series is out of our line.
01). working girls of Sydney town,
My heart goes out to thee,
Starved in soul and broken down
Like a disease-infested tree.
How can we remedy this evil crime
And bring to light the beautiful theme,
The thoughts of motherhood so divine,
Her only thoughts her only dream?
Not by crushing her body and soul
Or the canting speech of some well-fed swell,
But love and help ere she reach the shoal
And a Sister saved from the Gates of Hell.
Our mothers and sisters our aim to protect
Should be our first thought in life’s struggle,
And never allow sin and shame to collect
On one in whose arms we did cuddle.
When on earth are we to be treated fair?
It sickens one to the depth of his heart —
It’s tax, tax! Must we die in despair—
If work, work is only our part!
It’s work, work! More you try to make
The more is stuck on to your tax;
It seems to one it’s all take;
I’m sure I’m telling you the facts.
It matters not what is your lot,
To squeeze more than you’ve got;
Sit you up, have one on burning coals,
To take the last of your rolls.
Then ! they think this will bring us to our senses,
To keep one down and poor;
So as to keep one hard at his benches,
So as to tax us more and more.


Shipping:^
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
f ares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO.. Ltd.,
Tel.— City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
mo! s y dpe r-
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, NOVEMBER 24,
VENTURA,
10,000 Tons, IT Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
"|“HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regularly to:
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, DELLINGER,
NAMRUOOA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COEF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Byron Bay and the beautiful Tweed River.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murvvillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TOUR FARES.—Sydney-Brisbane, via
Byron Bay: Ist, £B/3/-; 2nd, £5/13/6. Sydney-
Brisbane, via Grafton: Ist, £B/3/-; 2nd, £5/10/-.
For particulars apply :
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
Hanking, Public Companies, &c.
THE /
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. : Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP,
K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE. M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June SO. 1921.
SubsCTibed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 796,655 10 0
Reserve Fund . . .. .. .. 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunniiig, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. : James Love, Esq.;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. . . £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,200,000
Reserve Fund . . .. .. . . £200,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysaght, Chairman; George
J. Sly, LLD. ; Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A. ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C. ;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Colling Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents ■ throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up . . . . . . 1,496,666
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,646,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Uritain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping:, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. TAHITI, November 11.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, December 9.
And every 28 days thereafter.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World —the Canadian Rockies —is on the All-Red Route,
'•'lie Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can he seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Ari/.ona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM WELLINGTON :
R.M.S. TOFU A, November 12.
R.M.S. MARAMA, December 2.
Connecting Steamers from Sydney, Nov. 4, Nov. 25.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
■k
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS. BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURftS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
White Star Line
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Australia to London and Liverpool via
South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
12,500 tons
12,000 tons
12,500 tons
12,000 tons
RUNIC
MEIIIC
SUEVIC
PERSIC
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCLES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
MIETIADES 8,000 tons
MARATHON 8,000 tons
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10.000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
I’aid-up Capital
*
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
- £4,765,700
3,275,000
4,705,700
£12,806,400
Tlie lion. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland. F.sq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Kaithfuil, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office— George Street, Sydney. London Office — 29 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.
351 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DTBECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
■ HEAD OFFICE
gd
3M ot Australia
SYDNEY. fl
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2802 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other islands of the Pacific.
32% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor July Ist, 1920 Governor
Shipping.
•Tranships at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns
tCarries Ist, 2nd and Srd-dnss passengers.
JCarries Ist and 2 1 id-class passengers.
B’Curries Ist and 3rd-class passengers.
Huddart Parker Li^
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA From Sydney to Ilobart
and vice versa everv three week-, between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars appb HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, apply
BURNS, PIIILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address.
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton § Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co v Limited.
Eitzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co, (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.
Picnic
Race
Trophies
sg
r-plate Lever Gold Wristlet
Watches in all the new de-
signs from £6/6/- upwards,
lo years’ guarantee with each.
we have catered for extensively for years.
Year after year we have supplied them to the
leading clubs.
WHY ?
Well, we put brains and experience behind
the catering for them.
Our large capital enables us to manufac-
ture and buy those we cannot make at bed- ■
rock prices.
Our enormous output allows us to cut
prices to the bone.
It also prevents any old stock-making.
We deduct special discounts to Race Clubs.
We only stock High-grade Goods.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
Missing: Friends.
INFORMATION is sought as to the
whereabouts or date and place of death
(if deceased) of PATRICK DEARY. Com-
municate with DARYALL & HORSFALL,
243 Collins Street, Melbourne.


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
1" IYOU THEATRE, SYDNEY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF BILLJIM.
SATURDAY NEXT, AT THE MATINEE.
HUGH D. McINTOSH’S
MASTERPIECE PRESENTATION.
THE GIRL FOR THE BOY.
The Best Show that has ever got into Australia.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
■IYOLI
THEATRE, 31 ELROD KNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH I). McINTOSH presents Miss LEE WHITE,
in London’s Latest Musical Success,
BRAN PIE.
“IT’S FRENCH—IT’S NOT RUDE.”
Prices as usual.
U K It M A .» E S T Y ’ S. S V 1) N E \ .
* * Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW ENGLISH COMEDY
COMPANY in
YES, UNCLE.
A Musical Comedy in two acts.
With DOROTHY BRUNTON.
Plans at Paling’s.
iKITE It I O N T II EA T It lE. S Y lINItV.
' Lessees: .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE MUSICAL COMEDY SUPREME,
IRENE.
Plans at Paling’s.
PALAC IS THISAT It E, SYDN E Y.
Lessees: J. & N. TAIT.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON Ltd.
Farewell Season of MARIE TEMPEST and
GRAHAM BROWNE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF MRS. DOT.
NEXT SATURDAY, OCTOBER 30.
THE GREAT ADVENTURE.
Arnold Bennett’s Master-play.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
u
N lON I’lC T U It IS T H IS A T It IS 8
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC. EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS.
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
KING’S THEATRE. MISI.ItO U It N IS.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 30.
Revival of JOHN D. O’HARA in
LIGHTNIN’. Plan at Allan’s.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
■ ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Revival of GILBERT & SULLIVAN OPERAS.
Saturday, October 30, to November 2, THE MIKADO.
Wednesday Matinee & Thursday evening, lOLANTIIE.
THEATRE ROYAL.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE BOY.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Proprietors: BEN & JOHN FULLER, LTD.
Sole Direction ALLAN WILKIE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF ALLAN WILKIE and
MISS HUNTER-WATTS in TWELFTH NIGHT.
NEXT SATURDAY,
AS YOU LIKE IT.
FOR SIX NIGHTS ONLY.
Box Plan at the Pianola.
gIUTANNIA THEATRE. .MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Amusements.
PLAYHOUSE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
DIRECTION AUSTRALIAN PLAYS, LTD.
THE BOSS COCIvIE.
“The tank’s full”—also, the house full.
U Ol’T’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
1 1 Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURIvE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTION.
THE MAN FROM SNOWY RIVER.
MARY MACLAREX in
THE ROAD TO DIVORCE.
Prices as usual.
QLYMPIA, WIRTHS’ PARK, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT ST
WIRTH BROS.’ NEW CIRCUS, LTD.
THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
THE
GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
|y|ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the* pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPII, PATHE,
WORLD and SELZNICIC.
—S
Missing Friends.
TF ARTHUR KINGTON, born in Launceston about
-I 1893, last heard of visiting Mother, at Callan
Park, New South Wales, will apply to the under-
signed he will hear of something to his advantage.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE CO., 91 Queen St., Melbourne.
Relatives of the late martin
IRWIN, native of Wicklow, Ireland,
please communicate with the undersigned.
Property left. J. REID STEWART, Mop-
rinsville, Auckland, N.Z.
GRAY, JAMES LOGAN.- —Anyone knowing the
whereabouts of JAMES LOGAN GRAY, son of.
Archibald Gray, of Stanecastle, Irvine, Scotland, who
arrived in Melbourne in October, 1906, by the Wakool,
please communicate with Blake and Riggall, 120
William Street, Melbourne.
Legal Notice.
TO JOHN BROUGHTON PIERCE, late
.4.1. F., last heard of in Melbourne.
Your father, GEORGE PIERCE, died
recently at Southport. We are proving the
Will, and wish to communicate with you to
your advantage.
HAWTHORN & LIGHTOLLER,
Solicitors for the Executor,
303 Queen Street, Brisbane.
THt WORLD'S
Wsl BEST VALUE
Edison Amberol Records
dg
for October
The October list of Edison Reqords is noteworthy for
the unusual excellence of the selections made by your
regular favorites.
There are good comic songs and sketches to laugh at,
the vocal numbers are of the highest merit, and the
instrumental selections are splendid.
Royal Purple Records.
29030—Emmet’s Lullaby. Soprano and Male
Voices, »orch. acc.
Frieda Hempel and Criterion Quartet.
29031 —Vainement, ma bien-aimee (Vainly, my
well-beloved) —Le Roi d’Ys. Tenor, in
French, orch. acc. Ralph Errole
29032—Funiculi —Funicula. Tenor, orch. acc.
Guido Ciccolini and Chorus of Girls
29033 —Carmena—Vocal Waltz. Soprano, orch.
acc. Alice Verlet
Blue Amberol Records
3823 — Beyond the Smiling and the Weeping.
Tenor and Baritone, orch. acc.
Charles Hart and Elliott Shaw
3824 — Fluffy Ruffles —One Step, for Dancing.
Green Bros.’ Novelty Orchestra
3826 — Luxembourg Waltz (from “Count of
Luxembourg’’). Whistling, orch. acc.
Sybil Sanderson Fagan
3827 — Patrol of the Scouts. Conway’s Band
3829 — Why Did You Come Into My Life?
Tenor,' orch. acc. Lewis James
3830 — Opera at Pun’kin Center. Rural Story.
Cal Stewart
3832 Lonesome —That’s All. Tenor, orch.
acc. George Wilton Ballard
3833 Ambassador Polka. Cornet, orch. acc.
Bohumir Kryl
3834 — When the Bees Make Honey (Down in
Sunny Alabam’). Tenor and Baritone,
oreh. acc.
Irving Kaufman and Jack Kaufman
3835 Police Court Scene —Talking.
Steve Porter and Company
3836 Ragging the Chopsticks. Baritone,
orch. acc. Arthur Fields
3837 — Take Me to the Land of Jazz. Orch.
acc. Bert Harvey
3842 —Sweet Leonore. Tenor, orch. acc.
Lewis James and Chorus
3844—C01. Stuart March. Conwav’s Band
3846 Sipping Cider Thru a Straw. Orch. acc.
Arthur Collins and Byron G. Harlan
3847 You’re Making a Miser of Me. Soprano,
orch. acc. Rachael Grant
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Dependable Guns
d
gds
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
all metal, very strong-.
Price 2/• post free.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/* each, post free.
1
820. The Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b.
Delivered,
821. The “Cert” Gun, as above, but with X bolt Delivered,
£.5/12/6
£6 151-
WE REPAIR
GUNS# RIFLES
Send for copy of
CATCH” Anglers’
The Fisherman’s
Mecum.
“SURE
Guide.
Vade
&
l
818. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
English D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, 28-inch
barrels, both choke, top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
patent fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib, weight about 711 b. Freight paid,
£lB/18/-
“Koolah” Shaving Sticks
Delightful to Use. 10d. each, post free.
Owing to market fluctuations!
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
Tth
M
89. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top lever,
dense Trogan nitro! 30in. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high file-cut rib, pistol
grip, chambered for 2fin. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to 7ilb.
Tested for Nito Powders Freight paid,
£lO/10/-
gsd
83. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges ; weight
about 71b Freight paid,
£l5/15/'
82. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun
Freight paid,
POWDER
£l5/15/-
AUSTRAL 4/6 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 6/- lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 10/6 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
E. C. SMOKELESS 11/9 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS 10 6 lb.
PLEASE NOTE. —Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
**-
S3
X
m
819. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 2S-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. & E,. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2iin. cartridges,
beautifully engraved, weight about 7|lb Freight paid.
£l5/15/-
MYRROHLSVc" TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth ; hardens the gums; prevents decaj ; sweetens
the breath and is specially recommended for pyorrhoea.
Price 1/9 tube (postage 3d. extra).
Steven’s
5.6.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
g
top action, solid ease-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. or 32in.
pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about 6ilb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
““-Ejector, 65/
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.
4/8 Imer-State.
ILLUSTRATED SPORTSMAN’S GUIDE POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
. fttfcfcShnmcms ffl.
Headquarters: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES—
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Keep Away Backache by Taking
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
m
\\ s
m
, - d
L
Mrs.
JEAN
HAYDEN
(from a
photo).
If you could only und er-
staiul the relief I have re-
ceived from Dr. Sheldon s
Gin Pills for Backache and
the Kidneys, you would quite
understand my writing and
telling you how very grateful
I am. I had terrible pains,
and my back was very bad. I
could hardly move. Now I
feel a different woman. I
can move with ea.se, which
was difficult before I took
your Gin Pills. I will always
have a bottle beside me. and
will always tell all ni)" friends
and strongly advise them to
give your Gin Pills a trial,
and I feel sure they 'will not
regret it.
You are welcome to > publish
this testimonial, for I hope
that those who have suffered
the same as I have suffered
will try your Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills for Backache and
the Kidneys and receive the
same benefit, ns I have.
Thankfully yours,
(Sgd.) Mrs. JUAN HAYDEN.
33 Oat ley Road,.
Paddington, N.S.W.
Gin Pills Will Help Yon
MaraMStß'Fiii'tiESsSs
hU 'T. T . f Small alze,
1/6; large size, holding more than twice the quantity, for t/6.
D r Sheldons
PM$
BANISHES ' ,
BACKACHE.KIDNEY, BLADDER
AND UR I NARY TROUBLES
4
0
Total Horse-power
Installed to Date
Reaches Over Half a Million.
These figures serve to emphasise the reputa-
tion established for the
Uni Flow
Steam Engines
They are preferred to-day for use in biggest plants,
mines, electric-light supply mines, rolling mills, pumping
plants, flour mills, etc. 120 to 1000 B.H.P.
Drive with widely-fluctuating loads, wonderfully simple,
require very little attention, remarkably economical
in running cost and standardised in manufacture.
Write for full information.
British-Australian Engineering Co. Ltd.,
National Mutual Buildings,
Corner Queen and Collins Streets, Melbourne.
’Phone 4031 Central. Box 1303 G.P.0., Melbourne.
N.S.W. Agents: Austral Engineering Co., Etc!., Sydney.
S.A. Agents: Parsons & Robertson, Adelaide.
Queensland Agents: General Machinery and Electrical Co., Brisbane.
Ego.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I AM not one, but many men at heart
Dupe, trickster, chi.d, philosopher,
buffoon,
Saint, worldling, cynic, sage; or late or soon
I am these all, who still am wholly none.
They are but facets turned to catch the sun,
Masks in which I Life’s mummer play my
part.
Courageous, I fare forth with lissome thew
To fight the lonely battle ot the years,
Knowing strong manhood throned above my
fears; . „„
Anon at some strange malison my frame.
Burned with the coward’s brands of faeiy
shame, . . ,
Shudders and sickens, craven through and
through.
I am nor good nor ill. nor false nor tiue.
Like some strange, many-tinted arabesque
Whirled in kaleidoscope I change; grotesque
And fathomless as a grey-lustred stream
Where all lights merge in one vague, change-
ful gleam.
Fashioned and broken and re-formed anew.
At times, upwhirled on Vision’s dizzy wave,
I strive to hear and know the theme sublime
That guides the singing spheres through
space and time ; ,
At times I crouch with misery-darkened brain
Beneath the red scourge of the moment’s
pain,
Brute-dumb and dreamless as a driven slave.
I am not one but many men ; and yet—
Ah yet, ah yet!—in that dim interlude.
When, ’twixt the dreaming and the waking
mood,
The magical sad Angelus of sleep
Drifts like far shadow-song across the deep,
Strange, dusk-dim sea that stills the day
stream’s fret,
Ah. then it is in sooth (or haply .seems)
The sad hysteria of the fevered day
And all life’s masking mummery falls away.
And in the mirroring twilight pools I scan
With half-reluctant eyes that unveiled man
Who is myself that I have found in dreams.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
“Like a Lake.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
most wonderful part of a telegraph
circuit is the galvanometer, the in-
strument which seems to have a
brain and a soul —most certainly has it a
personality. It sits in the circuit like a
thing alive, vigilant, incorruptible, unlying.
Dismantled, it is revealed as two coils of
wire and a magnetised needle free to swing
to left or right from the perpendicular over
a table of degrees ; rebuilt and imposed on
the line, it is a tattler of every doing of the
electricity. It tells of tne perfect condi-
tion and of fault alike, the nature of the
fault and its approximate location along
the miles; it discloses earth-path or earth-
halt of the current, crossed wires, how much
leakage has to be conquered by additional
battery, and much more besides of super-tech-
nical nature and value. No trick of the
current escapes its registration. It is the
most welcome sign-whisper in a testing offi-
cer’s ear for which he could wish. He may
loftily argue that he is not dependent upon
it,, that lie could manage without it. Yes,
as’ the blind get on without sight.
It was the night that the Aurora Australis
was so brilliant and prolonged a few years
ago, when the sky was the playground of
wide, surging lights. As a spectacle it was
worth one’s watching; as a study for the
observatories it is safe to assume that it
was the greatest good fortune; but as an
effect in the Telegraph departments it was
a decided disaster, for while the pheno-
menon lasted and for several hours after-
wards the winfs absorbed a foreign energy
which impeded the inter-State traffic.
Majendie and I were on one of the
Melbourne-Sydney duplex circuits at the
time. We were losing our station very
frequently, but bad lines breed philo-
sophers, so neither gave way to panic
or fury. If, however, any swearing
had been indulged in. I would have been
unaccompanied, for Majendie had become a
peculiar fellow of late: he was very gloomy
and silent.. The effects of a thousand
auroras would not have fetched a comment
from Majendie. When the interruptions
came in I got up to stretch myself, but
Majendie remained in his chair contemplat-
ing the galvanometer, another strange habit
of his.
“Jen is having a whale of a stare to-
night,” grinned one of a group I joined,
nodding towards my circuit-mate. “Look,
sisters!”
It provoked a succession of remarks:
“What is this galvo-itis he has got? Any-
one know? Ever since his wife died,
isn’t it? Stares half his time at the
galvanometer. Goes into trances.”
Then Kellerby spoke—Kellerby, the quiet,
thoughtful man. “Well, whatever is behind
it, Jen has my sympathy,” he said. “He
seems worried all up. You are wrong about
the trances. Jim. Take closer notice and
you’ll see that he is not dreaming, he’s fear-
ing.”
“Fearing!”
It showed how Kellerby’s intelligence
stood in our estimation that we echoed the
word amazedly. not scoflingly.
“Know anything. Kelly?”
Kellerby shook his head. “No. Probably
only a sick man’s bug. Since, as someone
remarked just now, his wife died, some-
thing seems to be biting him considerably.”
“Hum-m,” grunted a sceptic, “queer type
of despondency !”
“No, terror,” insisted Kellerby. “I tell
you that he is scared of something which
he reckons is going to pass him a clout from
the galvo.”
“But that’s not sensible” I objected.
“What could a galvo do to one, Kell?
Besides, away from the lines he is quite
different. He does talk a little then —not
very much, I’ll admit; but he does not look
scared.”
“Away from the lines, is away from the
salvos,” significantly laid down Kellerby.
“No good to you? Well, dont trust my
eyes; watch him any day and I guarantee
that the first time his galvo makes a strange
kick or two, Jen shakes all over.
I reckoned I could test that straight away.
I went back to my seat. Sydney, I saw,
was still interrupted, with the needle feel-
ing all the trouble. Turning to Majendie,
I said casually: “Good job is a Saturday
night; not much biz about.”
He merely gave a brief nod, but 1 got
what I wanted. Kellerby was right. Ike
man was strung, anxious, apprehensive, and
it was the needle that was undoubtedly the
cause. He could not take his eyes oft it
as it shivered, pendulated .and slammed.
“Excuse me, Mr. Storm. ’
I got up, and the testing-officer sat down
to the key. “Don’t go away,” he said to
me. “I will show you something very
interesting if I can get the opportunity.
Interrupted lines to him were a special
delight ; he throve on Morse problems. He
was famous for being in his most radiant
mood when “sciencing” during weather diffi-
culties. A very popular testmg-ofhcer, tor
he was approachable to knowledge-seekers.
“The air-belt is a vast battery-room to-
night,” he remarked with a humorous snnle.
“I hope—ah, good !”
The line had fluked right.
He told Sydney to ground (short circuit)
for one minute.
“O.K. Now,” obeyed Sydney.
Swiftly the testing-officer did likewise.
That meant that the batteries no longer
poured their energy along the line. A cur-
rentless dead wire linked the two capital
cities. The needle of the galvanometer, with
nothing to deflect it from the zero position,
would be rigid, inert. But when I looked
it was creeping clown to the right. twenty
—forty—fifty degrees, then seventy it regis-
tered. Fascinated and my back chased by the
odd shiver which anything uncanny dictates.
I watched the phantom battery show a rever-
sal. The needle swung back to zero and
unfalteringly dipped to the left, down, down
—7O degrees there, too. Phe bi-deflection
was proof positive of currents of multi-
“By my future halo,” I gasped involun-
tarily, “an aerial dynamo!”
“Auroral,” corrected the testing-officer,
laughing in gratification. .
Then together we looked at Majendie to
see how the manifestation appealed to him.
But Majendie had fainted.
When we brought him to, Kellerby was
detailed to see him, home. We never saw
Majendie again; he applied for sick-leave,
and when that expired he resigned.
Naturally, Majendie’s behavior caused a
great deal of conjecture and questioning.
We got no enlightenment from Kellerby.
“I’m as much in the dark as you are, he
said. “When he was fit to travel, he went
over to Tassy. I have not heard from him,
bar a postcard of thanks for fixing up, his
luggage and seeing him on to the boat.
The wonder ran its nine days’ limit and
' Four years went by. Of the men on duty
the night of Majendie’s collapse some had
been promoted to other parts of the State,
the rest had stayed on in Head Office to see,
among other innovations, the fast Wheat-
stone system do tape-miracles on the intei-
State duplex lines. Gear most marvellous
had come to telegraphy, and more was under
consideration. But one instrument had
defied eclipse. That was the galvanometer.
It took pride of place in the new system
as it had in the old. Additional deeds of the
current were disclosed on its dial.
Kellerby was now a postmaster; I, ham-
pered in promotion by juniority, was, when
he dropped in the other night whilst on
leave, still a telegraphist. .
I was off duty at 5 a.m. He was staying
in the same suburb, so waited ' for me.
Much shop was talked between the few
cables that came after 3 o’clock.
“A mighty interesting thing telegraphy,
he remarked at one stage. “It has only now
struck me. You see, I have lost the profes-
sional focus by having been away from it so
long; to-night I see it as might the man m
the street. 5
He waved a hand about. “Look at the
long rows of country lines, Fred, each carry-
ins: a typewriter. Consider the heavily-
apparatused inter-State lines. Surely this
is a wonder room?”
He mused a moment, then said: lhe
instrument that gets most of my homage,
though, is the galvanometer. Ever tried to
define it, Fred? The best I can do is that
it is an echo having visibility instead of
noise.”
A sudden memory sped a name to my
tongue. “Majendie.”
Kellerby glanced up quickly. Something
in his face made me tap him on the knee.
“Spill it, Kell,” I coaxed. “What pole-
axed him that night? I see you know.’
He contemplated me a moment, then
crossed his legs comfortably. “Yes, I do,
he said. “But it will knock you off your
perch.
“I ran into Majendie again two annual
leaves ago. He was doing a. lone booze
from a brandy-bottle in a pub in Swanston-
street. He was as thin as a match and
seemed to have gone to the pack geneially.
He was drinking like a man trying to dope
a ‘big worry. He looked up and saw me.
‘ls it Kellerby? Yes. surely!’ he said.
“ ‘Yes, that's right, Jen,’ I acknowledged.
‘l’m sorry at the gluttony,’ pointing at the
more than half-finished bottle. I was
equally sorry at his appearance, and I sup-
pose it got into my voice: anyway, he gazed
at me earnestly and critically. ‘You always
were a kind-heart,’ he said slowly. ‘l’m
I’m being killed by—by fancies, Kelly. He
licked drv lips, then asked a question almost
hysterically. ‘Kelly, will you come home
with me and take the place of this damned
bottle ?’ , , , ,
“He was sick: I could not do less.
‘Straight away,’ I replied. ‘Where is your
mia-mia?’ _ ~ ~
“He told me eagerly—m East Melbourne.
“ ‘Tram or number nines?’ I asked, leading
the way out. .
“ ‘We’ll walk if that suits you. It will
refresh me.’ . . „
“A thunderstorm looked imminent. lhe
first flash of lightning came as we turned out
(Continued on next page.)


FOR SORES & INJURIES
ZAM-BUK IS THE EVER-READY HEALER.
OF ALL
SORTS
WHATEVER your skin trouble—be it a simple cut or a festering sore—Zam-buk is the healer you can
absolutely rely upon. This balm is unsurpassed for injuries sustained either in the home or workshop,
for wounds that fester and get poisoned, for burning eczema and disfiguring sores, and for itching piles.
? Within a pot of Zam-Buk are stored most valuable healing, soothing and antiseptic properties. Zam-
Buk’s active ingredients are purely vegetable, and it contains no lard or rancid animal fat whatever, as do
common ointments, and its wonderful character makes it of priceless value.
TORN BY BARBED WIRE.
.Mr. Archie McKenzie, of 85 Pirie
I Street, Adelaide, writes: —“I had
a severe accident a short time ago through some rolls of barbed-wire slipping
qnd lacerating my hands, arms and legs. While bathing the injured place, I was
advised to try an application of Zain-Buk. This was so successful that I had
no necessity to see a doctor, and in a few days I was enabled to resume my
work.”
CRUSHED FINGER AND FESTERED LEG.
.Mrs. Lily
« B 1 Hogan,
77 Eveleigh Street, Redfern. Sydney, writes >-“My husband got one of his fingers
crushed at the foundry where he works some time ago. The inflammation spread
up the hand and arm, which were very much swollen, and the pain was so severe
he could hardly get any sleep at night. He was recommended to use Zam-Buk,
and after applying the balm night and morning each day his hand rapidly
improved. The inflammation was all drawn out, and it finally healed without any
trace of the scar remaining.
“He also had a very bad leg, which festered and, became very much inflamed,
but Zam-Buk quickly healed it. We both have the greatest faith in the balm.”
INFLAMED HAND.
.Mrs. Edith Leach, 331 Spencer Street, West Mel-
- bourne, writes: —“A few months ago my husband had
his hand badly bitten by a horse. It became very much inflamed, and caused him
so much pain that he was unable to do any work for some time. He was advised to
try Zam-Buk, and the first application eased the pain. Continued treatment with
the balm banished all the inflammation and healed the wound in a very short time.
‘My husband always uses Zam-Buk for cuts, bruises and other injuries, and I have
found it a splendid remedy where the children are concerned.”
CHILD’S TERRIBLE SCALDS.
.Mrs. M. Dillon, 1 Clarendon
wra -Street, Dunedin, N.Z., says:—
“When my boy Willie was 13 months old he got terribly scalded. X happened to
be cooking at the stove at the time, and when my back was turned the child
pulled a pot of boiling liquid all over his head and face.
“1 sent for a pot of Zam-Buk and began to apply dressings of the balm night
i and morning. Zam-buk soon took all the ‘fire’ and pain out of the scalds, and
prevented the development of any bad symptoms. We persevered with Zam-Buk
for a few days, and it healed perfectly and left no trace of the injuries.”
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK.
*
•. v
RUB IT |N t
™ *
Zam-Buk is un-
equalled for cuts,
bruises, scalds, burns,
running sores, bad legs,
ulcers, itching, abra-
sions. mosquito bites,
pimples, blisters, chil-
dren’s scabs, black-
heads, chafings, barcoo,
insect stings, sore
heels, eczema, poisoned
wounds, stiffness, sores
and injured conditions
of the skin generally.
Prices 1/6 and 3/6 per
pot everywhere.
f
7
\
%
Imitators may be
Flatterers; but
they are ONLY
Imitators.
Refuse
Substitutes .
of Collins-street into the Treasury Gardens.
To my utter amazement and concern, Majen-
die reeled. “God!' 1 heard him breathe. He
looked sea redly at the sky. ‘lt will happen,
it will happen!’ he whispered, giving a long,
nervous sigh.
“ ‘Kellerby,’ he said to me, “my wife died in
a thunderstorm, died grossly’
“He did not fin.sh his sentence, nor did
he otter more. He strode on with uncon-
sciously-quickened steps, and did not speak
again until we were at his rooms. He
seemed to be living very comfortably.
"He lit a gas tire and put a glass and a
decanter before me. I poured out small
drinks at his gesture.
“ ’Kelly, old chap,’ he plunged out, ‘for
God’s sake, let me unload the whole thing
now. It is driving me mad!
“ ‘When Eileen and I were about six
years married, a child was left on our door-
step one night. Upon my return, Eileen met
me in the hallway with it in her arms.
‘Look, dear.’ she said happily, ‘because I
cannot have a baby of my own, God has
given me one. Evidently someone’s shame
and encumbrance, Tom, but I will make it
my joy.’ Whilst she was saying this, the
bundle in her arms began to wail. In
swiftly mothering it she missed my ghastly
face. Kellerby, the child was mine—the
mother of it had threatened this!’
“He groaned and, dropped his head into
his hands. A shudder ran through his whole
being.
‘ ‘lt is a terrible thing to have to admit,’
he looked up to say, ‘but 1 take full blame
for my scoundrelism, accusing not heredity
or anything like that.’
“He got up heavily and went into another
room, returning with a jug of water, from
which he proceeded to fill a flagon. The
narrow neck swallowed a flashing cascade
from the lip of the jug.
“‘Admire the crystal glory.’ bade Majen-
die. ‘Nothing mars its sparkle. Yet study
the sediment from yesterday's filling.’ lie
shook the flagon and the ugliness stirred on
tne bottom of it and swam about.
‘bo with me,’ sighed Majendie, ‘except’
—bitterly—‘that my percentage of soul-slime
is far greater!’
“He reseated himself and rushed on : ‘ln
regard to the adoption, what did I do?
Kellerby, because the child’s mother had
held her tongue, I held mine. But here is
a point to be properly weighed. By with-
holding the confession, was 1 not preserving
my wife’s happiness?’
“ ‘Assuredly, Jen,’ I answered.
“The comforted look that came into his
eyes hurt my throat. ‘Before Heaven, I
regarded it that way. I fought it out, and
it seemed clear to me that I must not free
my mind of its gnaw by transferring it to
Eileen s heart.
But I was punished. Every day, every
hour I was scourged. The monstrous fraud
of it! Letting her tend and love that child
when she should have been loathing it!’
“He wrung his hands in his mental agony.
If ever I pitied a sinner it was Majendie.
His remorse was so plainly evident. ‘Well.’
he proceeded, ‘five years went by. God. how
I tried to atone! I plunged into electrical
science as a distraction mainly to keep my
burden out of my face. I have recently mar-
keted some profitable ideas that I’ll tell you
about some otner time. Now, Kelly, pay
attention to this. Do you recall that big
aurora and the experiment the testing-offi-
cer did with the batteries earthed? The
time I dropped out?’
“Thrilling all over, I leaned forward and
nodded.
" 'lvellerby, I once demonstrated the same
uncanny tiling to Eileen. I connected a
galvo to an iron-wire clothes-line during a
thunderstorm. The needle went crazy. It
awed Eileen. I tried to explain the why
of it to her, but, recovering herself, she did
a typically feminine thing. She playfully
patted my check, and, laughing, said: ‘No-
thing of the sort, dejir. It is the spirits
talking. Some day I will talk to you that
way. Just you wait and see.’ A jest, lvel-
lerby. But, Mother of Mercy, its transpira-
tion !’ '/
“As he wiped his forehead with a hand-
kerchief, a dozen questions plagued me for
utterance.”
“I guess!” I breathed. “Get on.”
Ivellerby tilled his pipe again. Mine had
gone out, but I ignored the fact.
"Jen’s voice faltered over his next words.
'Then —the fatal sickness came and she lay
dying. I strove to make my confession. But
it was no use, I could not do it. Kelly—oh,
Kelly ! She laid her dear hand on my head
and—and thanked me for the great love I
had showered upon her! Great God! “The
sweet proofs of it,” she smiled. “Your tone,
your touches, your gaze. ‘My love is like
a river, broadly flowing’—you said that in
a letter when we were sweethearts, Tom.
Remember?” I tried to reply, but could not.
How her answer swept back to me! “My
love is like a big, big lake, always there!”
Ah, yes, the years had not dried the lake,
wonderful, glorious lake that it was; but
had I told ! The largest of lakes can pass
in a night.’
“A haggard, wretched Majendie stared at
this truth. But soon lie took up the recital :
‘Death arrived. Her eyes grew dull, then
sightless; she had but an instant more of
life. That instant she gave to me. She
turned her face in my direction and strove to
speak and smile, though seeing me not. Then
she was gone And a startling thing had
happened. At her last breath a flash of light-
ning cut the room, blue and blinding. When
my eyes flickered open again, terror more
than grief stunned my mind a moment, for
I was sure—sure, Ivellerby ! —that Eileen’s
spirit had departed on the lightning! Why
are you not shaking your head and smiling?
It must sound preposterous to another. But
I will feel till I die that that lightning was a
flaming hand sent down to catch her earth-
finished soul and bear it to its new existence !’
“He nut a trembling hand on mv knee. ‘Then,
Ivellerby, when they led me from the room’
I went to my own den to hope and pray tha r
it was a virtue of the life after death that, if
she was where all things were visible to her.
she could not suffer. My hand was raised
to flood the pilot with gas when my blood
turned to ice. This was no vision, I tell you
I did not fancy it. I saw it. My galvo, which
was always on my table as a paper-weight,
was shining luminously, as though painted
with phosphorus, and its needle was jerking
to and fro! For a full minute this was main-
tained, then slowly the dial darkened, leav-
ing me on my knees on the floor mortally
afraid. She knew, she knew ! Kellerby. no-
thing will convince me to the contrary. Could
I only reach her and grovel at her 'feet for
forgiveness!
‘i hat is the story, Ivellerby. Now for
what is wearing the life out of me. It is the
notion, the belief that Eileen is endeavoring
to speak to me. Perhaps the galvanometer
was giving intelligible signals the night she
died. Who would declare positively that it
was not?
“ ‘Look at me. Now tell me. Do I appear
crazy or unbalanced at all?’
“I saw that he did not. I told him so.
" ‘Yet I am convinced that if I set my
Salvo ui> I will get a distinct message from
Eileen !’
“A very odd sensation took place among
the roots of my hair. An astounding change
had come over Majendie: he was now cooler
and more at his ease than I was. A vague
feeling of alarm settled upon me.
I haven t had the courage to experi-
ment,’ went on Majendie. ‘I thought it was
she who deflected the needle the night of the
aurora.’
“Again the peculiar stirring of the roots
of my hair.
“ ‘lt was the first anniversary of her
death. To-day is an anniversary, too —for
the second time accompanied by an electrical
disturbance. Hear that thunder?’
“Lord, Fred, I tv an hearing it! It seemed
to be embodying itself in what Majendie was
talking about!
“ ‘The brandy, Kellerby, was to give me
false courage for a test to end all this one
way or the other. When I saw you it struck
me that you might not mind seeing the thing
through with me.’
“For the life of me I could not laugh at
it all. Majendie’s unquestionable sanity
prevented my treating his request as ii
fanciful whim.
.“I did not answer too confidently. ‘l’m
right with you Jen. (Jo ahead. What do you
propose to do?’
“The question brought reaction; he was
knocked to the suffering husband again. ‘Mv
Salvo,’ he said nervously, ‘has been locked
away all these years. When I pulled my-
self together that night, I got out a big trunk
into which I dazedly put all her bedroom
treasures, the auctioneers getting all else.
Toilet tools, photographs and the contents of
her private drawers went in pell mell, un-
checked. I only half remember what I did.
However. I recall the galvo. I buried that
deep in fabrics.
“ ‘Help me bring out the box. We’ll remove
the galvanometer and lock the rest of the
things up again. My—my boy, now in the
charge of the Christian Brothers, is to get
them some day.’
4 Together we hauled the box from his bed-
room. A violent shuddering fit seized
Majendie. He handed me a key. ‘You un-
earth it, Kelly.’ he said. ‘I can’t’
“Unnerved myself. I knelt down and un-
locked the box. When I threw back the lid.
the indescribable, blended scents of feminine
things arose. I heard Majendie draw his
breath sharply.
'About half-way down,’ he directed, re-
fraining from watching.
“ 'Garment after garment I lifted slowly
out. Presently, face down lay the galvano-
meter. I gave a start to see that it lay on a
baby s robe. I was strangely shaken as my
fingers closed round the instrument. I could
not take my eyes off the little piece of apparel.
Even though I lifted up the object of my
search my gaze continued on the tiny dress.
"A piece of paper on it attracted my
notice. It was pinned to the breast of it.
It bore writing—and tear-stains, Fred. The
words leapt up to my eyes and nearly petri-
fied me.
“Like a man who is exhibiting a miracle,
I handed robe and missive to Majendie. ‘No
need of your experiment,’ I said gently and
awedly. ‘Eileen is here.’
“He took it apprehensively, then slowly
read.
“Every vestige of color drained from his
face, as I am sure my color had drained
from mine. ‘My God ! My God 1’ he said with
white lips.
“He crumpled into a sobbing heap beside
the trunk.”
Ivellerby stood up as though he had no
more to say. "Ten past five. Go and sign
off,” he said.
“But, confound it, what was on that
paper?” I demanded.
“ 'Take in the child' ” quoted Kellerbv
softly and reverently, " ‘for its father is in
this house.’ ”
DICK CLAY.
Monotone.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE ruin is fulling soft and slow
From gathering clouds, from leaf *■<■>
leaf,
And down the shadowy ways of grief
My wandering thoughts forlornly go.
From gathering clouds, from leaf to leaf,
The murmuring drifts of silver flow;
My wandering thoughts forlornly go
Where Sorrow gleans her pallid sheaf.
The murmuring drifts of silver flow;
Sighing, they sing their dirges brief
Where Sorrow gleans her pallid sheaf
And Memory braids her locks of snow.
Sighing, they sing their dirges brief
In wildering tones remote and low,
And Memory braids her locks of snow
Weeping o’er many a lost belief.
In wildering tones remote and low.
And down the shadowy ways of grief,
Weeping o’er many a lost belief,
The rain is falling soft and slow.
VICTORIA.
SYD C.


mm
V...
w
J
:
“>■•, rr
&9|
.
-Vto—
," ’. mtmk**''* -•' '•- ' **&*#»!?.*-
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life anti highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock— wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
Queensland Agents—-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N Z Office—93-107 Featheraton Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office-99 Queen Street, Melhourne.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Horlick’s Malted Milk contains
all requisite? forms of nourish”
ment. That is what makes
Horlick’s so rich so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hosv
lick’s, there is a great treat in
store for you.
HORUCK’S
.MALTED MILK
*5 - **£*^«^* ?
jjtr
¥
Ample Supplies.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company limited
Wb Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
6SI PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.IV.
Branches in all parts of the world. ,
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian' Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W. 0.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
- JUKtKBBk.
WMGLEYS
chewing-sweet
✓
X
This
NEW
flavour is
delicious l
Obtainable from Chemists*
and Storekeepers*
Fine for the teeth,
appetite and digestion
Send 3d. for trial packet
to WRiGLEY’S. Box 2376.
NOW THREE
FLAVOURS
G. P. 0.. Sydney.
SEALED TIGHT
KEPT RIGHT
Made in Australasia
The Flavour Lasts
f\2
m
tw*:
23
Off-Gowouh
\M
*
a /
dsg
ds
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us 'and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance, does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a teel
ing of ease and coinfort from the first day s
use. It is the most scientific appliance , yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND,IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men
TTaed since 1596 CURES Write for Boot
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S - an^*
GOOD LOOKS
A good clear complexion has much to
success in life, especially for women
men too. It appeals and fascinate*
more than features. You can
always have “good looks”
if you take Carter’s
Little Liver Pills, for
the real source of a
healthy and spotless
face is an active
Liver. They cure
Biliousness, Con-
stipation, Sallow
Skin, Pimples and
do with
and for
gsd
CARTERS
m STTLE
IVER
PILLS
Blackheads. In fact they make you
looking. Safe for children.
Small Pill—Small Dosa—Small Priee
GENUINE must
bear signature
gsd
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
g
Remjf}V°n,
38 &44 Cat. Rifles
and Cartridjes
There is a demand among sportsmen for a
rifle of medium size and price, yet with the
requisite shocking power to effectually “stop**
the game. The Remington eleven-shot re-
peater—3 B-40 and 44 calibre —is invaluable
for general use. Accurate up to 300 yards.
I
Inquire of your dealer, who
can order for you. Cat-:
aloguea free upon request*:
R!?vsc n ’
for Shooting Right
sdg
I
C-1
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
©. D. Bryant. Au*tr*lian Repre»entative ,' Box 686. G.P.0.. M


I^MANGROVITEj
LEATHER
LTI
*rJ > SJ?. TS OF interest about
MANGROVITE LEATHER BELTING.
It is made of flawless hides, carefully tanned
for belting' purposes by a scientific process.
Livery operation of its manufacture is stan-
dardises—consequently it gives maximum
transmission service at a minimum of cost,
and gives it over a long- period of time. Man-
grovite Belting is tough, durable and flexible
with a frictional grip which considerably
increases production. Allow us to instal it for
you under the supervision of our own engineers.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
, ( „ C t! ar ! eB Lut,owi °l> Managing Director),
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney
a>Vh c ! bbs - Bright &Co., Fremantle
S th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
Victoria and Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co.,
iMell*
Economy in Service
Comes from using the right steel for a given purpose.
For turning tools for Brass, Copper, Bronze and White Metal use
“D.S.W.” Brand Steel.
It is a special steel made for this particular class Of work.
This Steel is supplied in squares from £ to 1J inch,, and is easy to
harden. Full particulars given in our stock list.’ Send for one to-day.
Write to Desk “A” for prices, etc.
Tbe Eagle (SI Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
319-381 Kent St., Sydney.
261 JLatrobe St., Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle.
John Reid and Nephews, Brisbane.
Paul and Gray, JLtd., Newcastle.
Charles Atkins and Co.j Ltd., Adelaide.
dick’s Balata Belting
for True Economy.
o
<
cr
H
Sole Agents:
*
cc
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.
"Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 Lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Newcastle Agents—Paul & Cray Ltd.
The FIFTH WHEEL to a COACH
may be unnecessary, but it is a highly-prized adjunct to an up-to-date car.
Something special
to inflate your tyres
with.
This Style, with
Gauge, 30/- comp.
Without Gauge,
17/6, 18/-, 20/-
For the want of a Fifth
Wheel or Spare
The FORD CAR
has always been looked upon
as having a most desirable
necessity lacking, and, to
enable those FORD
OWNERS who wish to
become modernised, we
announce the - '
DEMOUNTABLE
WHEEL SET FOR
FORD CARS,
whereby they may make all
wheels demountable, and
also have a SPARE.
□
z
r d
M
dm
m
PRICE,
Complete,
including all fittings, bolts
and nuts, and nut brace,
and one extra wheel,
£7|ls|-
SPARE COVERS, BLOCK TREAD, 30in.
SPARE COVERS, PLAIN TREAD, 30in.
x 3iin., £B/7/6.
x 3£m., £7.
JEquip with a good Tyre
Pump. It saves oceans of
agony.
This Style., with Gauge,
79 A comp
Similar, but Quadruple
action, £4/5/- comp.
SWANS LIMITED,
The House for Motor
Engineers’ Supplies,
304 Pitt Street, Sydney.
f
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2}£ inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expresslv for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, ‘ oanoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £32/10/-
Correspondence invited.
D. 8 W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
High - Pressure Brasswork
to All Australian Water Board Standards
Also Guaranteed, Factory Tested, Medium Lines.
PUMPS.
Alderdice Limited,
Warrnambool, VICTORIA.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office— AGENTS
TUDOR LTD., ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY. Adelaide Brisbane Perth
“Ask the Man Who Owns One.’
!fc€t®
sd
Nearly everywhere you will find a satisfied
Delco-Light user. These users, in expressing
their satisfaction, show that Delco-Light is the
Electric Light and Power Plant for anyone
. w T anting good, dependable electric service.
SOLE AGENTS:
New South Wales:
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 309 Kent
Street, Sydney.
Victoria:
WARBURTON, FRANKI. LTD., 380
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland;
SMELLIE & CO., LTD., Brisbane.
a Satisfied User
DODGE
m
~:'r
&
Si
tow i«awatMir<wMjMKacwu^
Improved RocKbreaßers
fitted with Manganese Steel Jaw Plates.
DODGE Improved Rockbreakers (with the exception of the jaw plates)
are now being built by us locally, and every effort is made in the manu-
facture to produce a machine of extreme high quality that will satisfy
every demand for fineness and uniformity.
The improved design is the result of long experience and close study of the
successes and failures of earlier-designed machines. Where a particularly fine
and uniform product is required, as in Crushing Rolls, Huntington Mills, etc.,
Dodge improved Rockbreakers are indispensable.
Supplied in four sizes with capacities ranging from 1 to 1 2 tons per hour. Larger
sizes to order. Prices are right. Call and inspect or write for descriptive
circular giving all information. ,
PARKE ®. LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants, 60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
