

Australia's
Decidedly
Fine
Asset
Australian
Dried
Fruits
Association
The Seventeen SUN-RAYSED SETTLEMENTS are the living illustrations of
SUCCESSFUL REPATRIATION AND DECENTRALISATION.
In one district alone there are TEN THOUSAND PEOPLE SETTLED ON 20,000 acres (many of
whom are soldier settlers) on land that previously did not carry ONE SHEEP to 30 acres.
IF YOU GET THE HABITS OF EATING
SUN RAY SEP Fruits and
N ormey Confectionery
You Do Your HEALTH GOOD
You Save Money
You Assist Repatriation and Decentralisation.
THE CHEAPEST FOOD PER PENNY PER OUNCE AND PER UNIT OF ENERGY in Australia.
AT ALL GROCERS AND CONFECTIONERS.
C. J. De GARIS, Director of Publicity, A.D.F.A., Mildura.
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2109.
Thursday, July 15, 1920.
'
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, lor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1920 is now ready, and will be posted
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.—Abvr.
mi
m 11
C)\..
2ss
*
N
‘•jSSC" V ‘
1
a
1
The sign the
World knows
IT is the Gargoyle—the
world symbol of'scientitic
lubrica.ion.
The red Gargoyle appears on
cans and barrels which leave
Vacuum Oil Company refi-
neries scattered over the
globe.
The red Gargoyle points the
Way to correct lubrication on
six continents. It will be
found in garages in every
count/y where motor cars are
a factor. In the ports of the
world it is looked for by
owners of steamships.
It is a servant to electricity,
steam and gas. It gives these
power-sources their right to
work at full efficiency.
Every nation on the tw o
hemispheres recognises the
red Gargoyle. It is their
gv ... -post to mechanical
efficiency.
j=l.
Lubricants
A grade for each type
of service
acuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd., Throughout Australasia
Specialists in the manufacture of high-grade lubricants for every class of machinery
M 1 5
m
The Car for the
Owner-Driver
Comfort in keeping: with
its appearance of quiet
eleg;ance are features
of the STANDARD
LIGHT CAB that has
won the favor of the
Overseas Owner-driver.
The All
British
LIGHT CAR
Send your enquiry for early delivery to Agent—
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
*169-171 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
STANDARD MOTOR CO. LTD.,
COVENTRY, ENGLAND.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
CAUTION.—The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when, buying to be sure to get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the-Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Utd., Sydney.
[4
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats and the
Prevention of Consumption.
©
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. Th e Bronchial
Tubes of a dia»
sccted’ lung-.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
The Red Page
Three Verse-makers
On the War, 24 Sonnets, by Arnold Wall
(Whitcombe and Tombs). Many years ago
Arnold Wail wrote “A Parable of Fiddles,”
and evei*ybody looked expectantly for more.
There was a little more—lines so line and
unusual that Wall .seemed to hold all the
promise of greatness. After that came
silence broken by irregular outpourings of
curious but unsatisfactory verse. In this
little book of sonnets he is anything but a
good singer. Even in form the work is not
always correct, and little of it is pleasing.
Most of the verses are fair topical efforts
suitable for the daily paper in which they
appeared. They re-hash not very brilliantly
the .sort of thing that was being said from
day to day in the leading articles—no more
than that. There is not one really splendid
line in the whole 24 sonnets, nor one really
arresting phrase. This is about the most
striking:—
THE TWO NATIONS.
Two jousting knights rode down into the field,
One a huge man whose charger, calm and staid,
His rider’s lightest wish swiftly obeyed,
And bore with stately ease man, lance and shield;
Into the lists the other madly wheeled,
Flinging wild heels aloft, and plunged, and neighed
And in the turf a thousand circles made
Until his rider broke and forced to yield
His haughty spirit with strong bit and rein,
Then rode him, breathing hard, gleaming with sweat,
Beautiful in defeat, a glorious sight,
With quivering flanks and foam upon his mane.
But when the steeds in clash of battle met,
That daunted rebel bore the conquering knight.
The chief faults of that are that the sense
is carried over from the octave to the sestet
and that, grammatically, the phrase “the
other” tangles up hopelessly the second horse
and its rider; but in what possible sense did
the Allies or Britain ride a “daunted rebel”
t,<> victory __
tCynch a Rowan (Alexander
McCubbm, Melbourne). There is promise
in this book of verse. Here and there a
delicacy of touch is felt, though the thought
is not fresh and the subjects are slight.
This is a fair thing from the collection :
SPRING GAME IN WITH DANCING ST ITS.
Spring came in with dancing steps and swift;
Spring came, and kissed her hand to me, ’ '
And nodded from the tender drift
Of raiment on a waking tree.
“Old sweethearts we,”
Said Spring. “Remember?” And she shook
A cloud of sudden butterflies
In mischief down upon my book,
And hid its pages from my eyes.
“That’s my surprise,”
Said Spring. “I’m earlier this year,
And both my hands are brimming full;
I’ve blossom for the trees to wear,
And rounded fruit for you to pull.
But you are dull,”
Said Spring. “Why don’t you come and play ?
You did last year." Oh, bitter Spring,
You come—how differently to-day
To me, who sit remembering!
Remembering!
Rather clumsy as that is, with its “Said
Spring” carried forward from stanza to
stanza and its bad rhymes, there is a sugges-
tion of something better in it.
Rimu and Rata, by T. E. L. Roberts.
There is no poetry in this book, and the
verse goes heavily. Sample
lie thought no more of the raging blast, ,
For his Rimu and he together
Could brave the storm till the storm was past
And wed in the warmer weather.
He wrapt her round with his folding anus,
Anil the storm was lost in the love that calms,
And they dreamed together the dream that charms,
Of the dream that goes on for ever.
There are 71 pages, and none of the verse
is much better nor much worse than that.
Kings and Literature
No literary force has ever been used to
glorify kings and succeed in it.' The sub-
mediocrity Tigellinus could flatter Nero as
a poet when he was but the • Purtell and
Walt Whitman of old Rome. Fetronius
could not flatter, preferring to open his
veins. Tennyson tried hard to sing about
Queen Victoria and could only style her
“pre-eminent in grief”—a fit companion to
that other Brixton line of his: “The village
ne’er had seen a costlier funeral.” Shaks-
peare whitewashes the Tudors; probably he
had to do it to keep his head safely on his
shoulders. But he felt enough of his own
dishonesty to write: “Curses not loud but
deep; lip-,service, breath; praise which the
poor heart would fain deny, but dare not.”
That supremely honest thing, honest writ-
ing, has left not any lyric worth a damn if
founded on kings or rulers. The lugubrious
German tune, “God Save the King,” has
not an honest line in it nor a genuine emo-
tion ; all is as stilted as its rhyme of “tricks”
and “fix” and “politics.” Literature can
sing only of the things that matter—man,
woman, sunlight, the child, the flower, love,
life, death, grief, joy. Even patriotism,
if it be but the patriotism of traders and
paroehialists, falls inert, as having not the
breath of life in it, but only prejudice. Com-
pare the narrow, mean, parochial “Watch
«n the Rhine” with that wild, human, elo-
quent thing—the luckiest musical composi-
tion known—“ The Marseillaise.” Indeed,
compare all the literature of all the king-
made, trade-made, politically-made wars with
the literature of that one revolution. Cheap
verse like “Hohenlinden” and the “Burial of
Sir John Moore” succeed in failing; but the
verses that damn the battle of Blenheim
and Byron’s Ardennes waving her green
leaves “over the unreturning brave” ; —these
are human, these are literature.
It would seem that for proprietors of
foolish newspapers Hans Andersen wrote in
vain the story of the king who went to his
coronation in a robe so gossamer fine that
nobody unfit for his job would be able to
see it. The king couldn’t see it himself, nor
could his Ministers; but they all said they
saw so as to seem fit for their jobs. A little
child who didn’t have a job to worry about,
and whose bread was found for him so that
ho could afford to tell the truth, cried : “But
the king has nothing on.” And then, of
course, the solo became a chorus. The press-
agents of the Prince’s visit, Jjy roaring of all
the virtues and the genius alleged to clothe
the well-meaning and. pleasant lad, are call-
ing for somebody, to cry out that royalty is
naked; and thereby they are the worst
enemies of the institution they are paid to
support. Dante sentenced the flatterer to
eternity in a river of filth ; the kings of earlier
days impaled him or sent him to the block
or the fire. How far these slush-merchants
are the enemies of the most inoffensive mon-
archy on record the hundreds of thousands
of hard-headed Australians who have been
nauseated by reading the heavily veiled at-
tacks on the throne do know. Sydney Sun
could permit a miscreant named Hobbes to
write two columns from London and get it
printed. The indecent offence began:—
Adieu, adieu, dear Prince, adieu, adieu, adieu!
We all would like to go along', along with you;
Our hearts will hang on the golden wattle-tree,
And may the world go well with thee.
This Hobbes poet, lacking gratitude to Aus-
tralia for winning the war, proposes to
hang his heart on the golden wattle-tree and
make it all bluggy; or maybe he will cover
the golden wattle-tree with sawdust. In the
Sun also Keith Murdoch dredges the last
deep-sea things from the ultimate slime of
drivel, and remarks that as the Renown
crossed the Tasman Sea “the soft stars
twinkled furiously.” Naughty, naughty,
little suburban mind, trying to be tropical!
Dr. Archibald D. Strong, of Melbourne,
wrote on the subject the worst ode on
record. And John Sandes could find the
heart to do this: “While one was watching
the Prince the mist suddenly lifted like' a
curtain disclosing a line of rocky peaks. The
effect was exactly as though the coming of
the Prince had dispelled all the mist and
ushered in a sunshine that lighted the whole
scene.” The marvel is that, the sun didn’t
loyally become a spotlight and leave every-
body in darkness but the boy.
These are-but a few of the better-adver-
tised offenders—offenders against facts,
against natural laws and sense of propor-
tion. Murdoch’s . “soft stars” had to
twinkle “furiously”; Sandes had to insinu-
ate that the Prince’s arrival lifted the mists
from Duller Gorge; and Hobbes tried to
hang his bleeding heart (in London) on a
golden wattle-tree (in Australia). “If rain
does come our Royal visitor will be greeted
as the harbinger of what every farmer has
been praying for. The country would be
delighted to welcome him every year if he
will bring this splendid benediction in his
train.” This of the S. M. Herald’s stuck
well enough for one glad pastoralist to wire :
“Got 180 points. God bless the Prince of
Wales.” The Prince goes, as he very pro-
perly pleases, to Randwick, and the loyal
wowsers are silent, although next week they
will be in full blast again against the tote;
but why not if the perfervid Mr. Sandes is
permitted to say that “the Prince’s Throne is
as safe as the Throne of God”? If God has
a throne the statement is blasphemous, and
if He hasn’t it is disloyal to the Prince be-
cause it makes his tenure of the throne as
indefinite as Heaven.
Anyhow, here are the sycophants destroy-
ing their own idol. The panderers who set
the French peasants to beat the ponds all
night, so that the seigneur might sleep, de-
stroyed not only the peasants’ health and the
frogs’ courtship, but eventually the seigneur.
The journalistic survival of that panderer is
as dangerous to monarchy as ever was the
beating of frog-ponds to the seigneur, be-
cause a revolt against an insult to intelli-
gence is as dangerous as' a revolt against
any other form of attempted tyranny.
The present monarchy of Britain is the
most inoffensive and humanely-disposed of
all the monarchies that ever were; the
Prince is a kindly lad who is just what his
age should make him ; and it is an ill thing
that slush-journalists should succeed in mak-
ing Prince-worship ridiculous.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Creative Chemistry
When Germany was hemmed in during
the early years of the war she was threat-
ened with failure of her supplies of
explosives and of food through the absence
of the nitrates and ammonia required for
their production. German chemists came to
the rescue of their nation. They discovered
methods of extracting nitrates and ammonia-
fertiliser from the air; they made new de-
structive. gases and they invented substi-
tutes for cotton, copper, rubber and other
necessary things. They went far, in fact,
to save Germany from defeat by exhaustion
early in 1916. That was a big advertise-
ment for chemistry. • The least intelligent
of the newspaper readers of the world were
aroused by the Wizardry, and even the
superior persons who had despised “stinks”
sat up and recognised that they were of
great practical value nowadays. But if any
of these readers without scientific education
wished to become better acquainted with the
deeds of modern chemists in industry— the
chemists who are not merely analytical, but
also creative—it would be difficult for them
to get information. The ordinary scientific
treatises would be useless to them. What
they want is such a book as- Dr. Edwin
Slosson’s just-published Creative Chemistry.
Dr. Slosson is an American University
professor, a Master of Science and Ph.D.,
besides being literary editor 1 of the New
York Independent and author of popular
books such as “Great American Universi-
ties” and “Major Prophets of To-day.” He
is also author of a treatise with this fear-
some title: “On Acylhalogenamine Deriva-
tives and the Beckmann Re-arrangement.”
Don’t imagine, though, that Creative Chem-
istry is anything like that! Dr. Slosson,
while being an expert chemist, is also a capi-
tal writer, as the readers of this page have
reason to know. He is a scientist with a
knack of conveying information in an agree-
able way. Those who met him when he was
in Australia some years ago remember that’
he had also a fine sense of humor. These
factors help to make Creative Chemistry a
particularly readable and interesting book.
In an introductory chapter Dr. Slosson
states the position of man on the earth.
We may learn from Nature and admire
Nature for some things, but love Nature?
Never!
She is our treacherous and unsleeping foe, ever to
be feared and watched and circumvented. For at
any moment, and in spite of all our vigilance, she
may wipe out the human race by famine, pestilence
(Continued on page 24.)


nee
."11
V
a
%
%
m
zt-
A
Uui*
$
tS
mil in UMimi i
uiiiunnii
»<»»» iKHinnii
uj
&
n
\
L-
//
•^ : X '' N *
:-v.X\;'
I
A
W
MEN'S WEAR AT
Anthony Horderns'
It pays to study values and to buy good clothes.
Those are truisms which every man has learnt.
But in all the welter of explanations and
declarations brought forward by Commissions
and opinions the average man finds no answer to
his problem of how and where to get the most
for the money he expends. Only comparison of
quality and prices can demonstrate those facts
to him, and such comparison shows Anthony
Horderns’ to be the incomparable value-centre.
Palace Suits.
The “Palace” Suit comes from our own workrooms. It is cut to the latest style,
the materials are dependable, and the make and finish are of a high standai’d.
The coat of the “Palace” Suit has a double-breasted lapel, with soft roll collar,
outside breast pocket, centre seam, no vent; the vest has medium opening and four
pockets; while the trousers have hip pockets and plain or turn-up bottoms. In
Tweeds and Worsted; newest shades of Greys and Browns, 90/-, 95/-, 110/-,
126/-. In Navy Serge, Indigo Dye, 126/-, 147/-. In Fox’s Rough Serge, 147/-
Palace Overcoats.
THE ALTCAR, double-breasted, convertible collar, patch pockets with flaps, half-
belt at back, suitable garment for city or country wear.
DARK-GREY ALL-WOOL TWEEDS, unlined 126/-, 147/-, 168/-
DARK-GREY IRISH TWEED, lined, Black-and-white Check £lO/10/-
THE RAGLAN.—Comfortable slip-on shoulders, generous skirts, patch, vent,
or through opening pockets, plain or strapped cuffs—
FANCY TWEEDS, neat designs in Grey Effects 70/-, 84/-, 95/-, 105/-
IRISH TWEEDS, in Black-and-white Effects 155/-, 168/-, 210/-
FAWN COTTON GABARDINE, lined Check 58/6, 63/-, 75/-
FAWN WOOL GABARDINE, lined Check .... 105/-, 126/-, 147/-, 168/-
WE PAY CARRIAGE to any address in
N.S.W., and on inter-State orders to the
nearest port.
Anthony Hordern & Sons Limited
The House of Economy c===r> BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.


Use VELOX
to print your
souvenir pictures
of the
Prince’s visit.
1
pw
* :
✓
m
,
,
V/i>
H
HM
As soon as you get those precious negatives of the Prince and events
connected with his visit developed, print them on Velox. Make a complete
series and arrange them in an album, and you will have a charming
souvenir you will value very highly.
VELOX is made in various grades—there is a grade that will give you
the best that is in your negatives. Get a supply and your printing will be
easy. Your nearest Kodak dealer has Velox in stock.
KODAK (Australasia) PTY., LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 260-252 Queen Street,
Brisbane; The Valley;.37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies
Co., Perth; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
starved ?
33
1
f
OKI
MANY are born with an intense love of music, a craving for the beauty and
happiness it could bring into their lives.
Yet these are often the people prevented by stress of business or
circumstances from acquiring that executive brilliance necessary for the interpre-
tation of good music.
Are you one of those who love music and yet cannot play?
His Master's Voice
Instruments and Records
can bring music into your home—good music rendered by the world’s foremost
artists.
“His Master’s Voice’’ is better in the home than a silent piano. It provides
the kind of music you like, at any time you like. It suits all your moods, for the
thousands of records available cover everything from oratorio to jazz music.
“His Master’s Voice” Instruments retain their pre-eminence by a consistent
adherence to the highest standards of quality.
They reproduce the original music in all its natural pure tone and full
volume.
Prices range from £ll/11/- to £B7.
Catalogues, prices, record lists and name of nearest accredited dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
“GRAMOPHONE”
Read. Trade-mark.
103 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“His Master’s Voice”
Head. Trade-marl
r M
“HIS MASTERS VOICE’


dfdf gd
For
A Clear Complexion
Constipation disfigures the com"
plexion with pimples and blotches’
Poisonous matter which should have
been expelled from the system is
retained and gives rise to impurities
jn the blood. •
Pinkettes quickly clear away all
offending matter without the least
griping or discomfort. They are a
corrective for bad breath, will clear
the complexion, and are recom-
mended for torpid liver, biliousness,
headaches, constipation, and when-
ever a gentle laxative is required.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
How you can have the
Embroidery you Love
On your dainty blouse—your chic l)at
—your new gown—your handbag, etc.
FOR THE HOME:
On your curtains, your cushions, your
tablecloths, in fact, on anything.
376
Machine for Hand Embroidery
So simple that a child can work it. .
On Sale at all leading Stores in Aus-
tralia, and shortly in N.Z.
Sole Australasian Representatives (wholesale
only):
Eastern Trading Co. Ltd.
Malcolm Lane (off George Street), Sydney.
Instruction given .Tree at above address
or by your local agent.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
§3jg|j| Jell
Meit&re tse
' 4s&ir textS
HSt
’W&m : v
or 8, AU£|l
m
fg
ANOTHER MODISH STERIO CASE.
M
Here is another of the latest shapes in
Sterio Cases in Art Leather. A large
bevelled mirror occupies the entire lid,
and silk lining completes a distinctly
Smart Bag, which may be had in either
Waratah or Kookaburra designs. Size
7|in. x 4fin. Mention “Xll” when
ordering.
PRICE 35/-
Post free from
The AMERICAN BAG STORES Ltd.
the BAG- STORE. .CORNER - KING- -AND PITT STREETS.
STRAND ARCADE, PITT ST. • • SYDNEY ARCADE. GEORGE ST. SYDNEY.
Send us you name and address, and. we will forward you free of all charge one of our handsomely
illustrated catalogues.
Swan Self-Filler
NOW ON SALE!
Fills with a Flip of the Finger
Price - 20/-*
(Without Clip)
USE
SWAN INK
SWAN
INK
df
[Swan In*]
SWAN INK
SPECIAL FEATURES:
Ladder Feed, Swan Nib,
Safety Chamber Cap,
Certain Lever Action
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
Made by MABIE, TODD & CO.
London, New York, Paris, Sydney, Toronto
. -
POINTS of SUPERIORITY.
Every tooth on a circular saw must be of the highest quality
to maintain fast, clean cutting.
“An Eagle on a Globe” Circular Saws
are unquestionably of superior quality. They are made from double
extra crucible steel, keep sharp longer,-and cut. quicker than other
saws. There are 15 different patterns of teeth. Standard
holes and gauges. Sizes from 4in. diameter.
Prices, etc., promptly supplied on request to. Desk “A.”
THE EAGLE 8 GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent St., SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe St., Melbourne.
46 Boulder Rd., Kalgoorlie
Cliff St., Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews,
Brisbane
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Paul & Cray Ltd., Newcastle.
.*
%
f *4lt OH * a
ft 533
gd
fg
m
21
*3
«s/
The Dip you will Buy Again
Everywhere “Vallo" is rendering distinguished service.
Last season’s users are more than satisfied with the
results which this excellent Australian Dip has given
them. From all corners of the Continent come letters
conveying appreciation and repeat orders.
Powder SHEEP DIP
is finding its way to every important station. Its never-
failing efficacy, its long-lasting protection, and its
beneficial action upon the sheep are features which have
impressed every one who has used it-: —and they will
impress you. Order your supplies now from your
storekeeper.
Look for the
d
Trade Mark
m
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - BRISBANE
52
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Laughter.
Oh, tell me a way to lure Laughter in!
I have housed in a cave too long, too long,
Across whose vaulting grey spiders spin ;
And away in the green is a pipe of song
And a ruffled breast where the notes belong!
The bats hang here like some evil fruit
(Oh, teach me a way to lure laughter in!)
That had pain for .leafage and grief for root,
And the darkness tilts with the light to will;
Ere the dawn ha.s broken, the nights begin !
Oh, show me the road that Laughter comes,
Rippling silvers from head to heel,
With a rousing echo of merry drums!
At her unknown altars I would kneel,
With those pipes a skirl in a reckless reel!
A sun-mote danced in my palm at noon,
A bright blue butterfly swooped in play,
As I prayed to the gods for a loitering boon;
Give me a knowledge of Laughter’s way—
I know that she passed cpiite close to-day !
Then tell me a way to lure Laughter in!
She will paint my cave with a lifted rose,
A rainbow tapestry she will spin,
And a garden’s sweetness she will disclose—
There are many flowers whore Laughter
goes.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Way Beset.
All day long from morn till night,
Hither, thither, to and fro,
Sails of brown and sails of white,
Ships upon their business go ;
Better ’tis to rock and reel,
Wave and warring wind to bi*ok,
Than to lie with lazy keel
Hotting in some harbor-nook.
All day long, across the lands,
Rising, falling, speeds the breeze,
Swaying with its unseen hands
Ferns and blossoms, grass and trees ;
Better ’tis to cleanse and .stir
Field and forest, street and house,
Making tumult everywhere,
Than in lifeless calm to drowse.
All day long in town and town,
Each within a narrow groove,
Toiling up and ambling down.
Round and round the people move;
Better ’tis though ease invite,
Pleasure call to ear and eye,
Thus to struggle, thus to fight,
Thus to live, and thus to die.
Not alone in jungles dim.
Haunted by swift tawny shapes,
Green of eye and lithe of limb,
Lions, leopards, tigers, apes ;
Not alone on plain and hill.
Savage isle or peak unblest.
Dwells the splendor, lurks the thrill
That gives life its finest zest.
Dead is he to joy-of-life,
Dead and deaf to righteous wrath.
Who with muscles steeled to strife
Finds no lion in his path.
Hears no cry of want and woe
Charged with pain and bleak distress,
Rees no leopard crouching low
In the peopled wilderness.
All life long, till life be past.
Hither, thither, to and fro.
Through a forest, vague and vast.
Thronged with lurking shapes, we go;
’Neath our feet is jungle-rot.
Round about us living gleams;
Happier ’tis to know them not—
Go our ways and dream our dreams.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
I Was the Dream You Kissed.
Nafissa, with dark eyes wonderful, with
hands
That plead and strain, with hungry, pas-
sionate mouth —
Pray you remember that once in these dear
lands
Where life laughs duskly to the jocund
South,
Upon a night of song outleaping sense,
You took me, dear, into your confidence.
Your great eyes ominous were stars that
flamed
Fire out of primal darkness, and you cried
Of man’s deceit, of woman’s sweet faith
shamed,
Of shrines despoiled, and God knows what
beside.
“Hear,” sobbed you, “how the Minotaur
snorts and bellows!”
And kissed me in contempt of baser fellows.
So our two agonies fused in ons delight,
So our two discords rang in harmony,
While gods of eld chuckled adown the night,
So sweet you were, so utterly kind to me!
I was the dream you kissed to ease your
smart.
When you would dream again, I’m here,
Sweetheart.
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
Rondel.
Hope met Despair beside the bier
Of Youth’s great promise unfulfilled :
In arts of comfort strangely skilled.
He spoke words full of warmth and cheer.
He charmed away a falling tear.
And strove the sombre clouds to gild.
Hope met Despair beside the bier
Of Youth’s great promise unfulfilled.
In no great pajace. grim, austere.
Such as our merchant princes build.
But in a pub where songs were trilled
And Hebe served draughts cool and clear,
Hope met Despair beside the beer.
VICTOKIA.
THE MAD HATTER.


COATES'
Original Plymouth
DRY GIN'
First distilled at the
Black Friars’ Distil-
lery, Plymouth, Eng-
land, in 1793, Coates’
Dry Gin has never
departed from the high
standard of excellence
that won its reputation.
Every bottle of Coates’
Dry Gin is uniform in
quality, rich in juni-
per, mellow in flavor.
Look for the jolly Black Friar
on the bottle—a sure guarantee
of quality.
Obtainable at all good Hotels,
Clubs, Wine and Spirit Stores.
COOPER, NATHAN & CO.,
Sole Agents, Sydney.
Interstate Agents:
H. J. LANGDON & Co. Melbourne.
PERKINS & CO., LTD., Brisbane.
SEPPELT & SON, West Australia.
1/ i.
Lm
s*:
\
u. I
%
*
%
%
&
iVP
iron bio
in preparing the school and business lunches.
Make the sandwiches more tasty ; more whole -
some and inviting.
You will never be at a loss to provide new
ideas for the lunches when you know
“Rex ” Ham Pate
AND
“Rex ” Veal and Tongue Pate
Their delicious flavour is no accident It is a
fortunate combination of carefully selected meats
and seasonings—skill and care in preparation.
Try “Rex” Pates for all sandwich occasions.
They are packed in perfectly hygienic tins sealed
without solder.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of “Rex”. Pure Food Products
Curets of “Rex” Hams and Bacon.
J. 2924
s>'
c*.
3j 07 NEI
fills ib4B
Cleans Itsg
R.egulaff|||
Jig;
48k for ONOTO Ink
m
Yhupw
B «8t for all Pons
The Popular Shilling Tooth Paste
Cleans fbe lee It) without scratching
Sv Sweetens fbe breafbjb&rdens fbe gums
MADE
IN
Australia
Ky
■Sr
If your chemist or storekeeper
cannof supply, send 1/3 in stomps
1-0 Rocke .Tompsit t c Co. Melbourne.
Space Does
Not Permit—
Space does not permit us to extol the
rtiany virtues of the sterling cars we
represent, but a request for particulars
will receive a prompt reply, comprising
mechanical and general details.
THE BRITISH WOLSELEY
What more could be said than the fact
that Wolseley cars are the product of one
of Britain’s largest Engineering firms,
viz., Messrs. Vickers, Ltd.? Amongst
their many manufactures perhaps the
Vickers-Vimy aeroplane is not the least
famous. The post-war Wolseley cars are
made in three chasses, viz., 10 and I 5 h.p.
four-cylinder; 20-h.p. six-cylinder. They
embody the latest ideas, and their high-
efficiency engines are influenced by air-
craft design.
HUDSON SUPER-SIX
&nd ESSEX CARS.
The popular demand for these cars
continues unabated. This popularity is
solely due to the wonderful performances
of each in its class, and to their uniform
trustworthiness during a long life on
Australian roads.
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED,
' 136-138 Phillip Street, S3/dney„


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Vol. 41—No. 2109.
THURSDAY, JULY 15, 1920.
Price 9d.
THE MODERN WRECKERS (A FEW OF THEM).


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
I l 'or £1 His. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, whore practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus: and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.h;
E. T. Hole, IJolerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.: “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Aerica. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; International House,
Iflf Kerk Street, Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., hhl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; the Boston Hat Works and News
Co., 109 A Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A. —Wheatley Neius Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; J. Roland ICay Co., 18.'i9
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Liberty News
Co., Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth
Avenue and 21th Street, New York; Schulte News
Agency, Bryant Park, 12nd Street and 6th Avenue,
New York City; Queen City Neivs Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago; Golden Gate Neivs Agency,
119 Market Street, Chicago; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 163 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore.— John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon.—lf. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai, Kulamadau and
Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, (Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper ): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands. 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Sloz. to 10oz..
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., 31(1.; elsewhere, )oz., lid., and
Id. each additional 2oz.
‘BaEjd&L
THURSDAY, JULY 15, 1920.
ARE PARLIAMENTS DOOMED?
To many people our Parliamentary system
seems fixed and immutable. Yet it is only a
few years, as the historians count, since the
House of Commons lacked the most effective
weapon of government, the power to levy
taxes and spend the money; and the founda-
tions of the British Empire were laid by
sovereigns who were practically absolute. In
those days the king commanded more rever-
ence than any Parliament that has ever
existed. If he was not exactly a god him-
self, he at least held his title from God.
Loyalty to the throne was a religion with
hundreds of nations during thousands of
years. Even with us the old point of view
survives, like our rudimentary tails, in the
phrasing of Petitions, Addresses and so forth.
The system worked reasonablv well so long
as the kings were wise and good ; or, that
failing, so long as it was possible to keep
their weaknesses dark. A 1 more or less en-
lightened people might stand an Elizabeth
but not a Charles ; a Napoleon the Great
but not a Napoleon the Little; a Frederick
I. but not a Wilhelm 11. The last abso-
lute sovereign that the white world will
probably ever know is now a refugee from
justice in a small Dutch town. His only
< m the eyes of most of his ex-subjects
is that he failed to deliver the goods. They
gave him their trust, their money and the
lives of a million able-bodied young men, and
he returned them shame and ruin. So an in-
stitution to which the Germans have been
particularly attached since the beginning of
Feudalism in Europe goes by the board. The
idea of kingship has become as hateful to the
majority of these one-time super-monarchists
as George HI. made it to the Americans.
Free nations have, of course, put up with
far worse Parliaments than Australia has
been afflicted with of late years. The bribery
and corruption of George lll.’s reign, for ex-
ample, when Ministers paid. M’s.P. for their
votes in a public office expressly instituted
for the purpose, would be impracticable in
this age when everyone can read and when
(pace the War Precautions Act) the press
is free. Australian visitors to London are
revolted when Holland House is shown to
them, with the intimation that every stone
of it was paid for in money stolen from the
public by a Minister. Our Premiers do
not steal like that. In fact, it is doubtful if
they steal at all. But financial dishonesty
is not the only crime to which politicians
are liable. A fierce light beats upon a
Premier these days in respect of his mone-
tary transactions. The mishandling of the
public funds was not only allowable in the
middle of the 18th century, it was fashion-
able ; and men like Pitt who refused to fol-
low the general practice were laughed at as
cranks. To-day the public man is the slave
not of peculation but of party : he aims at
power instead of palaces. And just as in
Fox’s day the politician who declined to fol-
low the crowd was derided as an eccentric,
and hampered in his career, so it is now. It
may be less disreputable to sacrifice the best
interests of' the people for an idea than
for hard cash; but it works out in the
same way so far as the people are con-
cerned
* • * »
As a matter of fact, our present system
of government is just as unsuited to the
needs of a free people as any despotism.
Like despotism, it is only endurable so long
as exceptional men are at the head of affairs,
or it isn’t found out. But it has been found
out so often of late that there is a growing
tendency on the part of the most solidly
capable men to have nothing to do with it.
There should be room in a microcosm like
the Federal Parliament for representatives
of the best professional brains, for the
ablest commercial men, and for working-class
types remarkable for intellect and force.
Such men are not there ; and the reason is
chiefly that, as each election comes round,
the average elector is offered the choice
between supporting, if he is a Conservative,
a failure in business; if he is a worker of
Radical views, a blatant ass whose chie'f if
not only asset is his tongue. The strange
collection thus brought together has to work
under the madhouse arrangement which the
Parliaments of Australia imported from Eng-
land, where it was born of Compromise by
Expediency, out of The Better-of-Two-Evßs
by Necessity. Thus at the head of our
Army we have Pearce, who has had no ex-
perience of soldiering; and as Ministe ; r for
the Navy Joseph Cook, who was the Navy’s
bitterest assailant a few years ago. All that
the Administration attempts is undertaken
in face of violent criticism and abuse which
are unreasoned and automatic; the stated
objections have little or nothing to do with
the merits of the case, but are based on
party interests. The response to this is
natural in the case of Ministers who are
anxious to retain office. The Executive, dele-
gates responsibility wherever the exercise of
it might involve unpopularity. Is it desired
to deport an influential German ? A public
servant is ordered to report on the alien’s
case. The Government thought conscrip-
tion was necessary to save the nation. The
matter was put to a referendum, though.it
could have been effectuated by an Order-in-
Council in a matter of hours. And all over
the Commonwealth Royal Commissions are
doing the dirty work of the Governments,
Federal and State, at immense cost to the
people. It is part of the price which the Aus-
tralian taxpayers have to pay for the lust of
power possessed by men like W. M. Hughes ;
and it costs them as much, all said and done,
as the more direct methods of New-
castle, Grenville and their friends cost
the British taxpayers a century and a half
ago.
* * * *
But the most ominous feature of the
business has nothing to do with mere lucre.
The whole nation is in agreement about the
White Australia ideal. Opinions may hon-
estly differ as to how it is . to be preserved.
There may be something in the views of
those who argue that the best way is to
placate the races affected. It may be a w r ise
procedure to disarm, and to lower the tariff
so as to put our white workers and their
families on an industrial level with the
coolies of Asia. It is imaginable, to a cer-
tain type of mind —the Cobdenite mind —
that Asia must be so touched by such
generous conduct that we and our ideal will
be safe. It may be fairly contended, on
the other hand, that defencelessness has
never been worth anything in an argument
between nations —that we will only be left
alone on the assumption that we are too
dangerous to touch ; and that we will never
put ourselves in that position till we build
up all our key industries, and most of the
subsidiary ones, and fill the country with
white men to exploit those industries. But
this much is certain : there can be no value
in a mixture of the two policies. It is
sheer lunacy to order the yellow races to
keep out. while we. are transparently in-
capable of maintaining the bluff if it should
be called ; and it is absurd to talk of buy-
ing and maintaining a navy and an army on
a policy of exporting primary products to
pay for cheap imports. Such a scheme has
all the dangers of militarism with none of
its advantages in the way of security from
attack. And it is to precisely that arrange-
ment that the ambitions of the politicians
condemn us. The Jellicoe recommenda-
tions rest in their pigeon-hole. The Govern-
ment is afraid of losing votes by expending
money on an unspectacular institution like
the Navy. Its land defence intentions re-
main unknown. Some hundreds of thou-
sands of trainees have reached the voting age
since the war began. The new tariff is to
be submitted shortly to a bombardment
estimated to last a minimum of six months;
and journals of the Argus stamp forecast
that the result will be a wholesale lowering
of duties in the interests of foreign manu-
facturers.
* * * *
So our Parliaments, regarded as an ex-
pression of the popular will, have become a
good deal of a failure. They tend more and
more to be dominated by vehement oppor-
tunists with the*trappings of democracy and
the souls of war-lords. With that species
of idiot cunning which so many doomed
monarchs have betrayed, these men keep
their fingers on the pulses of the noisy few
(the sections whose votes are supposed to
be affected by all sorts of side-issues), regard-
less of the wishes or the welfare of the
many who are inarticulate. The building of
Versailles is said to have been largely
responsible for the French Revolution. Our
Bourbons are loading their cursing subjects
with equally superfluous splendors—a hope-
less capital, raised salaries, a steadily-grow-
ing army of officials and all sorts of need-
less world-trips—with wooden indifference
to the sentiments of the many who are re-
quired to foot the bill. There is hardly one
fatal error made by the old sovereigns “by
Divine Right” which cannot be traced to
our sovereigns by Right of Parliament. Are
rotten Parliaments any safer in the long
run than rotten kings? The fate of the
Russian Duma supplies the answer.
STOREY, McROOK AND ADAMS,
DECEASED.
Thebe is a revival of talk among politicians
about running State lotteries. In West-
ralia the Returned Soldiers’ Association,
with the Government’s sanction, recently
conducted a £5OOO consultation on a horfee
race. In Queensland the Theodore Govern-
ment has given its blessing to a monthly
“art union,” 100,000 tickets at ss. 3d., for
the benefit of hospitals. And in hundreds
of Australian towns the “clients’ agent”
still finds it a lucrative, if furtive, occupa-
tion to communicate with Hobart, where,
the postal hypocrisy notwithstanding, the
trustees of George Adams deceased continue
to carry on business at the old address.
Incidentally, the volume of betting on horse
races was never greater. N. S. Wales got
nearly a quarter of a million from this
source of revenue last year, and then only
touched the fringe of the traffic. Victoria
is quite as racing mad as her northern
neighbor, but in deference to the feelings of
Tommy Mcßook and his clerical ally, it
refuses to instal the totalise tor, whereby it
deprives itself of at least £200,000 per
annum. The other States of the Common-
wealth derive considerable revenue from the
machine, and all of them (even South
Australia, where bookmaking is illegal)
support Tommy .Mcßook and -his attendant
parasites in large numbers. But, although
there is abundance of money for lotteries,
two-up, crown and anchor and betting,
whether with man or machine, on the course
or off it, all the Australian Governments
are in necessitous circumstances. The N. S.
Wales Ministry recently asked for £2,500,000
in London, and had to pay 6| per cent, for
it. Victoria wanted £6,000,000 and came
away without it. Queensland suggested
£9,000,000, and Cohen’s reply was in such
frigid terms that Premier Theodore hasn’t
got over the shock. And the Commonwealth
Government, which owes about £350,000,000
already, is in the market for another
£25,000,000. In order to get the money it
is offering 6 per cent, free of income-tax.
and it threatens to apply compulsory
measures to moneyed but unpatriotic per-
sons who don’t come up to the scratch. At
the same time, the Victorian Government is
appealing to the investing public for
£2,725,000 at of per cent, and the Storey
Government, which has just raised £2,600,000
locally at 5f per cent, free of’ income-tax,
talks of taking the hat round again presently,
having overdrawn its loan-account and being
nearly two millions “shy” in respect of con-
solidated revenue. But Australia has only
a limited supply of the sort of people who
subscribe to Government loans, nor is their
wealth to be compared with that of the
British bondholder or French rentier class,
and in the rush for their favors some of
these impecunious administrations are liable
to get left.
The wonder is that Storey or Theodore
„or some other unfinancial Treasurer doesn’t
go after the vast amount of boodle that
weekly pours into the sweep-promoter’s safe
and the bookmakers’ bags, At present the
State gets only 'a fraction of this money in
taxes or subscriptions to- loans; the great,
bulk of it helps to maintain a horde of
economic parasites who are neither useful
nor ornamental and would be all the better
for applying themselves to honest work. A
big part of it is drawn from those Savings
Banks which supply the Australian Govern-
ments with a lot of their loan funds, and
very little drifts back. To a large extent
it is the small punter’s money that keeps
the sweep-promoter and the bookmaker going.
A ticket in Tatts. or a bet on Stonecold in
the Welshers’ Handicap is the small punter’s
equivalent of a flutter on the Stock
Exchange; it gives him all the excitement
incident to speculation, together with the
prospect, remote as it is, of making a rise.
It is useless to rail at his short-sighted folly :
useless to point out that 98 per cent, of small
punters inevitably lose their money, and that
it would be bette_r for the State to have the
use of that money even to build a railway
to Dead Dog than that Ikey Noses should
fatten on it like a hog in a sty. The prac-
tice has got to be reckoned with. The
small punter is so constituted that he would
rather risk losing his money in a meretricious
gamble than lend it at so much per cent, to
the State. The only way of curing his
strange but human malady is to offer him
something better than he can get from book-
makers or promoters of sweeps. And this
something better is available in the shape
of premium bonds.
* * * *
A premium bond guaranteed by a re-
putable Government represents a safe in-
vestment and a good gamble. The man who
buys £5 worth of sweep tickets and fails to
draw a prize, or puts £5 on Neck-or-Nothing
and sees it finish down the course, loses his
money; but if he buys a £5 premium bond
he never loses it unless the country is con-
quered by a confiscatory invader or the Gov-
ernment goes broke. On the contrary, he
gets interest on his fiver and a chance of
landing a big prize in a monthly or quarterly
drawing, and these benefits continue until
his bond is redeemed. As for the Govern-
ment, it secures the use of a lot of money
from a class which rarely has its name on
an application for loan scrip, and pays
rather less for it than it would in the ordi-
nary course. Probably John Storey will
be trying to float a local loan directly of
£3,000,000 at per cent. Suppose, instead,
he invited subscriptions for 600,000 £5 pre-
mium bonds at per cent. —2| per cent.
(6d. in the £ per annum) to go to the bond-
holder as interest, and the other 3 per cent,
to be periodically balloted for and applied
to the redemption of bonds. With £90,000
to operate on in the first year the Govern-
ment could offer a four-figure prize every
month, and a number of smaller prizes, and
even if the investor failed to land one of the
big premiums he would receive par value
for his bond sooner or later, with 2| per cent,
interest besides. From every point of view
except that of the parasite this system is
superior to sweeps, betting, two-up and
Yankee sweat; and it is superior to State
lotteries as well. State lotteries are no
different from other unproductive forms of
gambling, in that the speculator loses if he
doesn’t win ; and the great majority of him
must lose. Moreover, there is force in the
objection that the State has no moral right
to take something from the individual and give
nothing in return, and that State lotteries
tend to encourage idleness and discourage
thrift. But there can be no such objection
to a method of finance in which the in-
vestor’s principal and interest are guaranteed
and in which the speculative element (which
benefits no one but the State and the sub-
scribers themselves) is, at the worst, an
honest alternative to a dreary and fruitless
habit of gambling, but for which an army
of loafers and other undesirables would have
to look for work. If State lotteries are
instituted (and things certainly seem to be
shaping that way), all but a few drawers of
prizes will lose their money. But the
holder of a premium bond, humanly speak-
ing, can’t lose.
THE PROPOSED COAL MONSTER
AGAIN.
The press reports that the miners demand “con-
trol and ownership of the coal-mines by the miners
for the miners alone” is an ignorant or wicked misre-
presentation. The miners are not syndicalists. They
hold that the minerals in the earth belong to the
general community, and should be owned by the gen-
eral community. The miners, however, certainly con-
tend- that, to the extent that they are prepared to
accept responsibility, they are also entitled to con-
trol the industry in which they are engaged.—State-
ment of the case by Willis., secretary of the Coal
and Shale Workers’ Federation.
Australia is a land where trees are scarce
and water-power is in poor supply; also,
its small population is abnormally congested
into cities, which are handy to be starved
into submission by military or industrial
siege. It is a land yvhich depends like other
lands, and more than some lands, on coal.
If it were possible for one individual to get
conttol of the coal supply he would own the
nation, body and soul —its industries, its
food, its means of communication, its wages,
its right to work, its accumulated wealth,
its future. In fact, until the people violently
deposed and hanged the monstrous tyrant,
he would be Pope, King and Kaiser all in
one. And if the tyrant happened to be a
syndicate or corporation or “federation,” the
position would be just this much worse, that
the monstrosity would be harder to collect,
and would require more hanging. The atti-
tude of the Coal and Shale boss is that he
demands such a power for his syndicate or
corporation or federation, and the presum-
able attitude of the nation is that it will
die in the last ditch, after submitting to
the worst possible hardships, rather than
let him have it. The proposed surrender
of its liberties is too impudent and too out-
rageous. It is affirmed that “to the extent
that they [the miners] are prepared to
accept responsibility they are also entitled
to control the industry.” Therefore if they
were prepared to accept all responsibility
they' would naturally get all the control
and leave none for those poor obliterated
creatures, the nominal owners, otherwise the
nation. The words “accept responsibility’
are casual. Everybody who puts his name
to a bill or otherwise incurs a debt
accepts responsibility to pay for the goods;
bpt debts remain unpaid all the same,
and the goods are not recovered. People
accept responsibility to live together in
amity all their days, and many of them
take refuge in the divorce court, or simply
bury the deceased under the hearth. There
are even people who are so casual as to
guarantee at a baptismal service that eight
or ten pounds of humanity which they pos-
sibly never saw before shall grow up a
pious ditizen. There are individuals who
would accept all “responsibility” for all Aus-
tralia and for the rest of the world as well,
likewise the planets, in return for such a
gorgeous prize as control of the coal in-
dustry of this country. They would accept
and chance the payment. Big as the
proposition is, the Qoal aa( l Shale secretary
doesn’t even suggest a £5 deposit as_ a
guarantee that his corporation, having
secured the industry, would live up to any
definition of responsibility save its own.
* * * *
There is no record of strict and chival-
rous adherence to the letter and spirit of
their bargains, of continuous industry,
reasonableness, lofty consideration for the
rights of others and patriotic regard for
their country’s interests attached to the
Australian coal-miners to induce the nation
to hand them all its fortunes as a casual
Christmas gift. Nor is there any such
record attached to anybody anywhere. The
concession is more than the Salvation Army
or the Society of Jesus or the Royal Col-
lege of Surgeons should ask for. (Of course
the nation would retain the ownership of all
minerals, but nominal ownership is the
shadow and control is the substance.) At
present Australia knows the coal-miners, or
the leaders who profess to speak for them,
as men who talk much about the right ot
the workers to own mines, but who never
acquire or create a mine and run it co-
operatively to show their capacity tot'
management. About stealing or seizing
established mines much has been heard at
intervals, but nothing of the other thing,
though a half of the money wasted or- un-


justifiable strikes and stoppages (justifiable
ones are in a different category ) would have
gone a long wav towards establishing owner-
ship of the business. Possibly the leaders
haven’t a shred of faith in their own manag-
ing or organising ability, and are terrified at
the idea of becoming the men who are held
responsible for accidents, muddle, grievances
and failure, instead of mere stipendiary
grumblers at those who don’t shirk such
troubles. In the absence of any evidence as
to how they would make a success, of even
one small mine, the idea of entrusting them
with control of the lot is alarming. Also
the lack of any haste to create mines of
their own raises a doubt whether the
country would have any pits at all. when
the present ones are exhausted. Again, the
coal fraternity has a record for leaving off
work, collectively and individually, oftener
and for less visible reason than any other
set of men; and this is presumably, in
part at least, because they realise that, even
within their present limits, they are in a
stronger position to dictate to their fellow-
mortals than any other body of men in the
country. At all events, matters look suf-
ficiently like that to make the idea of giving
them ten times their present power a
serious matter.
* * * *
The basis of the Coal and Shale .secre-
tary’s pronouncement was the present de-
mand that the wage of the “lower-paid men”
should be raised to £1 per day. A great
deal of energy is put by the present school
of union leaders into the job of securing not
better pay for work done, which is always
liable to be a reasonable aspiration, but
better pay for time spent, whether work is
done or not. The prospect of handing over
the dictatorship of the country and every-
thing in it to bosses with these views, and
doing so in exchange for a mere moral re-
sponsibility, has np charm. Presumably the
new controllers would regulate their own
wages and hours, the output, the supply or
non-supply (they being the only suppliers)
of this person or that, and the sacking of
themselves for inefficiency. They would
open up, or forget to open up, new pits as
the old ones wore out. They would decide
whether the country wanted more coal for
the support of new industries or whether
new industries were superfluous. And they
would regulate admission to or exclusion from
the most profitable, or at least potentially
profitable, corporation on earth. If the cor-
poration misused its power it could possibly
be fined, though fines are hard to collect,
especially in cold weather, when the
Supreme Court’s fire is out. As it would
embody all the expert miners, it couldn’t have
its privileges annulled unless new men were
procured, probably from abroad, and their
arrival might easily mean civil war. In
fact, the proposed arrangement is a hole
to which entrance would be easy and exit
very difficult. The present coal-owners may,
in many cases, be only a moderately desir-
able lot, though they supply about the
cheapest fuel of its quality in the world,, and
where they take the form of companies, as
they mostly do, the dividends are not abso-
lutely marvellous. But to replace these
scattered proprietors who at least know (or
most of them do) how to create and man-
age mines with one gigantic unfinancial cor-
poration which may not know, would be
akin to taking a header over a cliff in the
dark.
THE PEACE IN EUROPE.
On the walls of Roman monuments, Renais-
sance monasteries and modern barracks are
traces of the psychology of the last election in
Italy. There are manifestoes from the Popular
party and the Priests’ party, painting the hor-
rors of socialistic rapine; there are placards
of the Labor party, promising a new heaven
and a new earth; there are anonymous scrib-
blings exhorting the distracted elector to
vote for “Bolshevism and the Russian Revo-
lution.” In the election a new method,
similar to the scrutin de liste, was employed.
The candidates were divided into a number of
groups, and out of these groups the elector
in each commune was invited to select the
names he preferred—say, three put of 10.
The votes secured by one candidate in one
commune were added to those obtained by
him in another. There was no room for the
independent. Each aspirant must sub-
scribe to one party platform or another, and
thus on one list would be found a Hebrew,
a Catholic, a war contractor, a Socialist
interventionist, a Conservative jingo and an
industrial magnate all successfully reconcil-
ing their principles to the party programme.
The elections were carried through in an
atmosphere of corruption equal to any that
had gone before, and resulted in a Parlia-
ment of servile opportunists, responsible to
no particular electorate, but acutely sensi-
tive to their own private interests. The
new Popular or Catholic party returned 100
deputies, the Socialists 156; and Nitti’s
Government can only obtain a working
majority with the support of one or other of
these. No single party is sufficiently strong
to impose its policy. Dissolution would be
useless, as the parties would return in practi-
cally the same relative proportions, with
their personnel perhaps a little altered. Thus
on the standing pool of politics in Rome
stagnation reigns, mantled with the slime of
academic speeches and the facile promises
of Ministers.
What are the problems which these stark
rulers of the Italian people have to solve?
They are problems which would have
daunted the gravest Senators who ever sat
in the Eternal City. There is six times as
much paper money blowing about in Italy as
there was before the war, and this paper
is worth in foreign exchange only a quarter
of its nominal value. The almost complete
annihilation of Austria and the strangling
of Germany have destroyed Italy’s two most
important markets, and owing to her de-
pendence on imported food and raw materials
the low exchange value of the lira is more
effective than a submarine blockade. The
price of bread is high, but it is only pre-
vented from going higher by a State subsidy
which is costing the taxpayer—though he
doesn’t know it—a thousand million lire a
year. All State enterprises—railways, tele-
graphs, etc. —are being run at a loss, the
National Debt increases by another thousand
million every month, and the cost of garri-
soning occupied territories and of suppress-
ing recalcitrant workers makes the military
expenditure for one month more than it was
for the whole first year of war. The sixth
National Loan has just been closed and was
“a complete success”; but this fairy gold
vanishes as rapidly as it appears, and,
owing to currency 'depreciation, the amount
subscribed has already decreased in value by
about a quarter in the course of a few
weeks. Something has, been done by re-
stricting luxuries and stimulating produc-
tion to make up leeway, and lately exports
have trebled in value, but they lag far, behind
imports and still the exchange rises. Most
ominous phase of all, the State expenditure
amounts to three times the revenue, while
politicians tell the people the difference can
be made up by indemnities from moribund
Austria and exhausted Germany! It was
on the .strength of such promises that they
got into power. The truth, however, that,
far from making any immediate contribution
towards the revenues of other countries,
Germany will require an 1 international loan
to save "her, and with her all Europe, from
destruction, is slowly dawning upon the
minds of bedevilled people. It is a drab
dawning, shot through with savage lights,
heralding a bloody sun instead of the new
world that wa.s promised; and through the
atmosphere of hope turned to bewilderment
the voices of new prophets are making them-
selves heard.
The programme of the National Council
of the Socialist party states that “the pro-
letariat must have recourse to violence in
order to defend itself against bourgeois vio-
lence, to conquer the State and consolidate
tlie revolutionary conquests. In Parliament
the party only seeks to intensify its com-
munist propaganda, and will under no cir-
cumstances collaborate with the bourgeois
parties.” This programme is regarded by
one section of the Socialist party, led by
Turati, as being too abstract and Utopian.
Turati proposes to test the capacity of the
bourgeois State for evolving constitutionally
in the direction of reform by asking Par-
liament to accede to certain concrete de-
mands. As the price of Socialistic Co-opera-
tion in Government, he requires the cancel-
lation of the treaties of Versailles and St.
Germain, international freetyade and dis-
armament, nationalisation of land and indus-
try, workmen’s councils to share in factory
■management, compulsory world insurance to
protect the worker in illness, old age and
unemployment, confiscation of war fortunes,
heavy death duties and drastic education
reforms. These things will otherwise be im-
posed by force by the revolutionary prole-
tariat. In this threatened division within
the Socialist party the Liberal and Nation-
alist press sees a chance of depriving the
growing colossus of his strength. They
hopefully discuss the question of swallowing
Turati and his programme, so horrible
though it be to a capitalist stomach.
Behind the playful lightnings of the party-
game a real storm-cloud is gathering. A
nation, no less than an army, marches on
its stomach, and while lam in Rome, in
this second year of peace, the rationing sys-
tem, relaxed last December, is re-introduced
more stringently than ever.- Articles of
prime necessity, the only food within reach
of the pooler classes, are rationed as fol-
lows: Bread. 11b. per day ; macaroni, lib.
per week ; rice. lib. per month ; sugar, lib.
per month ; oil Ith of a pint per month. The
Italian people are frugal enough. Their
ordinary diet of cereals, cheese and oil would
spell starvation to the Australian worker.
The Italian soldier in the late ' war con-
stantly fought and marched on an empty
stomach and the recollection of the previous
day’s meal: and one told me with a melan-
choly exaltation that as a prisoner of war
in Germany he disappointed all efforts to
starve him to deathJbv stealing an occasional
handful of flour, mixing it with water and
eating it.
Still, if you have money enough you need
not starve. You may, if you can afford it,
sit on the Piazza Venezia and eat the
daintiest patisserie, the eunningest ices in
Europe: and you will see passing you as
much silk hose as cotton. These things
are not lost upon the worker. Every day
he tends to get more out of hand. He goes
out on unauthorised strikes. Even the con-
servative contadini throw down their tools.
There are riots in Venice and strikes in
Rome. The bourgeoisie clamor for sterner
measures. Machine-guns rattle in Turin,
and the workers reply by proclaiming a
general strike. This is the vicious circle in
which Italy finds herself after nearly two
years of peace.
M. G. S.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Blithering and Other Idiots.
When a politician of the intense type of
n g Wales’s Dooley attains office after a
lo ‘ ' term 0 f irresponsibility he finds many
strange ' plants of his own sowing in the
g arden . in his wild days his attitude is
tbat influential public servants like the rail-
waymen should have more pay and less
wor k and greater control over the manage-
ment that the overpaid management should
be ‘’ put i n its place,” and that there
s h ou ld be more brotherhood and backslap-
ping. And, of course, the public should
fl aV e a much better service. Having sympa-
thised so long with the employees as against
their truculent chiefs, and having been
accustomed to regard the latter as members
0 f a hostile aristocratic-employer caste, he
f ee i s that a certain fierceness and incivility
is necessary towards them. Wherefore
Minister Dooley has stated that any
“blithering idiot” (like one of the present
Railway Commissioners) can cure a deficit
by pushing up fares and freights, and he
isn’t going to pay £3OOO or £4OOO a year to
that sort of ass. “An enormous amount of
waste and unnecessary overhead charges”
have to be remedied, so that the recent in-
creases in wages can be met without
additions to fares and freights. After which
few' remarks the railway worker will
naturally understand that his chiefs are
poor creatures and not to be taken much
notice of. It isn’t all summer afternoon
being an Australian railway commissioner,
even without a Dooley leaping like this in
the foreground and destroying discipline
and efficiency. In the year to June, 1919,
for instance, (this year’s accounts are not
yet available). £359,361 went in increased
pay to the N. S. Wales wages staff, the
minimum then being 60s. per week. Now,
this couldn’t be made up by reducing the
pay of the brass-hats —the salaried men who
loaf in offices and give directions and are
an offence to Dooley —for the total under
“salaries, office expenses, office staff and
general superintendence” was only £260,957.
That included the pay of the “blithering
idiots” on top, and • it represented less than
7d. in the £ of revenue. When the minimum
wage .was put up to 775. for the class which
Dooley represents, the wages-sheet went
up in an instant by £1,200,000 a year. The
Commissioners, by some marvel of luck or
ingenuity which seems too good to be true,
claim that, though they increased their
charges by only £400,000, they will come
Out about square. No doubt the return of
many missing customers from the war and
the artificial bustle of repatriation helped,
still it seems an amazing performance. In
1918-19 £69 6s. 7d, out of every £IOO earned
went in working expenses, while latest
figures showed £75 to £7B as quite common
in England. And English managers aren’t
vexed by political jesters who hand over to
them every, year 100 or 200 miles of new
line, much of which is quite hopeless and
was only built to secure votes for ephemeral
but bouncing Dooleys. Nor are they ex-
pected to earn per cent, dividends for a
growing horde of preference shareholders
in a foreign country. Their shareholders
are often content with 2 per cent. They
aren’t called upon to carry traffic past
Aberdeen and Glasgow to London, merely
because it is the policy of a long series of
Governments to suppress Aberdeen and
Glasgow, nor have they even to buy the
farming vote for Dooley and his political
brethren by carrying produce at less than
half-cost. If Dooley knows how to do very
much better than the N. S. Wales Commis-
sioners have done under such cqnditions he
probably knows more than nine railway ex-
perts out of ten the world over, and with
that knowledge' to sell his long continuance
as a humble country tailor is a marvel
ranking with the hanging gardens of Baby-
lon. Meanwhile his Government, having
financial troubles apart , from the railways,
seems to have no clear idea of meeting them
save by increased taxes, which is much the
same as increased railway charges, though
it certainly borrowed £4,500,000 in nine
weeks—a thing any blithering idiot could
do if lenders were available. Dooley’s
attitude Is much that of Ryan, who taught
the Queensland railway service that an
attitude of you-bd-damnedness towards the
management and the public is the only one
for free men. His old colleagues have, got
rid of Ryan, and are trying feebly to make
things normal again.
The Gentle Art of Sandbagging.
The outcome of the publication of the
llughes-Watt cables is that the Prime
Minister has scored heavily in Certain quar-
ters. “Was he (Watt) justified,” the S. M.
Herald asks sadly, “in putting his per-
sonal sense of dignity higher than the
interests of the Commonwealth —for that is
what his action amounts to?” The whole
truth is not yet clear; but some things are.
In the A.I.F. there was a very popular
method of removing senior officers who, like
Watt, were competent—sometimes too eom-
peteht for their immediate superiors’ peace.
An unwanted colonel, for example, would
be superseded over and over again. Three-
fourths of his “recommends”-for decorations
would be turned down. Lacking the hide
of a rhinoceros he would, after a time,
accept a home-service billet, or a return
trip to Australia. The very men who had
driven him to, it would then, grinning behind
their hands, deplore their victim’s petty in-
ability to “put his personal sense of dig-
nity” below the cause for which all were
striving. The C.O.’s followed the same plan.
Say it was desired to oust a unit com-
mander (an artillery major, for example)
to make way for a favorite. The state of
the major’s lines and animals was publicly
deployed; he was ordered to visit the bat-
tery of which the favorite was temporarily
in charge, and learn how camouflage
should be done; it was suggested that the
short shooting of the previous night was his
work; and so on. If he was a W. A.
Watt he engineered a transfer to another
brigade as a means of escape from present
humiliation and, perhaps, ultimate ruin.
Wherever there is supreme authority (as
under militarism or a leader of the Hughes
type) the careers and reputations of the sub-
ordinates largely depend on the disposition
of the despot. To many Watt appears an
absurdly sensitive and almost childishly
fractious person. But it is quite as likely
that Hughes, with all the weapons in his
hands, “waited” for Watt and got him at
a time when the star of the Australian was
rising and that of the Welsh Prime Minister
was threatened with eclipse.
The Apprentice.
Various public bodies periodically cast a
languid eye in the direction of the nation’s
apprentices. The N. S. Wales Board of
Trade did it last week. But nothing ever
happens. The apprentices are not union-
ised. There are not many of them; and
by the time they are old enough to vote they
are fighting industrially on another front.
Human nature being constituted as it is,
they have then no time for the troubles that
have been left behind. Compare the posi-
tions of two youngsters who are fair average
types. Jim Smith is just on 19. He has
been well educated —remaining at school till
he was 16 —and is apprenticed to the engi-
neering trade. He starts work every morn-'
ing at 7<30 and continues till five, and many
of his evenings have to be put in at
a technical college. For this he may
get as little as £1 a week. Bill
Jones is aged 15, and works in a boot-
polishing emporium. He began at 30s. a
week ; but on becoming proficient in his art he
threatened to go to a rival establishment, and
was raised to 355. and later to £2. He earns
another £1 in tips. On the debit side he
leads a more or less idle and disorderly exist-
ence, assimilates the language and point of
view of the racing touts and magsmen who
patronise the place—in short, enters into
hard training for the role of undesirable citi-
zen. His parents know. They would
rather see him learning a disciplined trade.
But if they are poor the blind-alley
callings are the only ones they can
afford to put him to —anyway, without
sacrifices which they are not prepared to
make. Plainly there are only two alternatives
open to this country in the long run. It
must declare either for the boot-cleaners,
road-sweepers, food-deliverers and the like —
the coolies of industrialism —or for the ap-
prentices. If the latter are desired, they
will only be got in large numbers (our stan-
dard of living being what it is) by ensuring
that they are able to earn enough to support
themselves while in the learning stage. It
would probably pay the State well to bear a
proportion of the cost —say, on the lines of
the Insurance Act contributions, which Con-
tinental idea Lloyd George imported to Eng-
land shortly before the war. It takes more
than a high tariff to make a great manufac-
turing country : amongst the other require-
ments are plenty of skilled artisans and
that faithful craftsmanship which is only
produced by years of training. Of course
if it is intended to go on importing things on
a large scale, then the boot-cleaning and
kindred avenues of employment are as suit-
able as any other for our youths.
The Profiteer and His Friend the Labor
Union.
At time of writing the Melbourne gas
workers are stickling for quarterly reviews
of their rates of pay, so that they may plead
“increased cost of living” four times a year.
Such things make the outlook for that vast,
widespread body of people known as the
community pretty black. The value of
everybody’s little bank deposit, life-insur-
ance policy or War Loan investment has
already fallen horribly, and it will go on
falling as long as profiteers can find a ready
market for what they have to sell. And
every increase of wages under threat of a
strike ensures a ready market for most of
those things. The demand on the em-
ployers is thus for means to keep the profit-
eering going, and employers in general are
so intimately connected with profiteering
that they may almost be said to be in league
with Labor to supply the means. In this
way every fresh concession of wages (and
some unskilled labor is now boasting that it
intends to strike, strike, strike until it gets
£7 a week) tends to further diminish the
value of everybody’s bit-laid-by. Nothing
on the other hand, can improve the value of
the £ save an all-round conspiracy of thrift
and reasonable self-denial. If wage-egrners,
salary-earners and persons existing on past
savings were leagued together to refrain from
buying things they can do without, and to
limit their purchases of essentials to their real
requirements, the game of profiteering, which
radiates from bloated capitalists in most
cases, would be burst up and the £1 note
would soon be worth almost as much as a
golden sovereign was before the war. But
seeing that trades unionism never talks
either of economy or of increased produc-
tion whilst it can talk of higher wages to
meet increased cost of commodities, it looks
as if profiteering will continue until pauper-
ism is the common lot of the aged and the
widow and the pensioner.
The North: A Certificate.
David Lindsay is Australia’s greatest living
explorer; and after scraping off some appre-
ciated references to its own work, The
Bulletin prints this call from him to the
South:—•
.The people of the South need rousing up to make
them realise the enormous value of the North and
the great risks attendant upon leaving it unoccupied.
It is largely due to the apathy of the Southern
papers that so little has been done towards the
settlement of the Territory. Having no represen-
tative in Parliament the people have no say in the
legislation affecting their interests and no means
of making their wants known. This has been the
cause of unrest, dissatisfaction and much trouble.
I believe in White Australia, and am satisfied that
the white race can work, live and thrive in the
North. This belief is the result of many years’
experience in employing labor, and is supported bv
the conclusions of Dr. Breinl and other scientists
who have been studying the question, and who say
they find no signs of deterioration in the Northern
whites. Remove the Territory’s isolation by means
of rail connected with the South, and the labor
problem will be largely solved. Why are we not
growing thousands of acres of rice, which can be
harvested by machinery ? It is not a question of
experimental farms. The late Mr. Holtze predicted
that rice would be to the Northern Territory what
wheat is to southern Australia. Cotton plantations
should have been established long ago, under expert
control. Cotton would be a payable proposition, the
Territory being ideal for its growth. Cheap land,
cheap transport, satisfactory rainfall, a long dry
season for picking and abundant native labor —the
Territory has them all.
■»
No Mean City.
The Federal Government, following the
usual line of least resistance, proposes a
commission to consider the best means of
getting the Legislature to Canberra and
other circumstances connected or discon-
nected therewith. Not- having the courage
to say that the place is no part of the Fed-
eral compact, and that it was born in fraud
and evasion and corruption and has not a
single good point to recommend it as the
political centre of a continent, the Govern-
ment is naturally in a weak position. If it
took its stand on the big interests of Aus-
tralia, and said it was in no haste to go to
’Berra because that is a spot which Aus-
tralia will repent of ever afterwards, but
that it is willing to haste to a suitable place
and will speak to the approaching Federal
Convention to that effect, it would stand on
something solid. Its policy of doing nothing
save loaf-around leaves it open to the gibe
that it wants to remain indefinitely among
the fleshpots of Melbourne, and doesn’t care
whether Australia has a metropolis of its
own or not. Therefore the old Sydney im-
porting push’s jealousy of Melbourne and
the demand that the Commonwealth should
have a home of its own are put together as
if they were the joint merits or advantages
of ’Berra itself, whereas that place, crowded


Tfe Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A
ustralia
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the hand.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
into a slum or terrace of State capitals in
a corner of the country, possesses no merits.
Sydney Telegraph seized the opportunity
to lament as usual (3/7/’2O) :
....One more instance of the devious policy consis-
tently pursued in the matter of honoring the Federal
compact in this matter. A commission “to report
on the steps necessary to commence Parliamentary
and administrative government at Canberra, and
the provision of buildings” is surely unnecessary at
this hour of the day. . . .The only step “necessary
to commence Parliamentary and administrative gov-
ernment at Canberra” is to provide the necessary
buildings. As Mr. Austin Chapman recalled re-
cently, the Government buildings at Ottawa, de-
stroyed by fire a few years ago, were replaced in two
years, and Ottawa is no mean city.
It was rather an unlucky illustration. Canada
was so anxious that the selection of a capi-
tal should not be a sordid shindy of parochi-
alists, State-Frights, land-jobbers and the
like that it asked Queen Victoria to send
commissioners to select a site. (Wellington
became the capital of Maoriland in some-
what similar fashion.) The selection was at
least honest, and it proved a success. But
Canberra was the outcome of a sordid grab
in which the interests of Australia weren’t
mentioned. All that was alleged was that
N. S. Wales “ought to have the capital.”
The bargain it made with the other States,
and made on its own initiative, that the
Federal Constitution would be accepted if
it received a majority of affirmative votes
and at least 50,000 affirmative votes, was
repudiated by the old Sydney Parliament,
and the people’s acceptance of the original
Constitution, which left the capital an open
question, was cancelled. The best-remem-
bered leader of the repudiation movement
was a politician, now deceased, who was
wholly anti-Federal. Out of all this arose
the project for disqualifying all the States
save N. S. Wales as possible capital sites.
Canberra, unlike Ottawa, is a mean city,
born out of meanness. Most of its first
sponsors, though Federal politicians, had
been originally anti-Federalists, and they
suggested the place because they thought it
good enough for the Commonwealth that
they had never desired and into the real
spirit of which they had never been able to
enter. Its most notable early newspaper
supporter was the bitterly anti-Federal Syd-
ney Telegraph. Canberra isn’t even men-
tioned in the Constitution, and its best
friends don’t praise it on its merits. Any
Government which had the courage to de-
mand a review of the whole question in the
interests of Australia would find a large
following, but courage isn’t the outstanding
feature of the Hughes Administration. Be-
sides, the interests of Australia aren’t much
of a rallying cry. There isn’t a single
Member for Australia in either House.
A Word for the Distiller.
The result of an entire cessation of distil-
ling in Scotland during the war was aggra-
vated in 1915 by a sudden demand that all
future supplies should be matured for three
years before being sold. This would have
been an excellent provision had stocks been
normal; but as the stoppage of manufac-
ture for nearly four years created a short-
age at the end of 1919 which only old stocks
could supply, it means that whisky must
be held for three years in wood as it is
turned out while the reserves held from the
pre-war and early-war period are disposed of.
These old stocks are, as might be expected,
vanishing like frost in sunlight, and until
trade is normal again illicit distilling and
“filling up” will be a serious menace. In
fact, the problem “What is whisky ?” is
already being dealt with by the Food Con-
troller under the Food and Drugs Act, and
he finds it a poser to decide whether a con-
coction made up of Yankee rye spirit, raw
alcohol, Dutch and Danish whisky and
Japanese dope is entitled to be passed over
the counter as legitimate Scotch or Irish.
And as the quantity now coming forward
to Australian buyers is very small, the re-
action vitally affects local traders. Not half
the quantity sold here as pure Scotch has
ever been within long range of Britain’s
highlands, and seasoned drinkers are pro-
testing against a very poor camouflage of
established brands. In the circumstances,
Australian brands, as such, are becoming
better known; and they possess one virtue
that is unassailable: they are scientifically
pure. Indeed, as for rum, most of that
spirit turned out in Queensland is trebly
distilled in small pot-stills, and is far finer
than anything now made in Jamaica or
Demerara. Tests which have lately been
applied to small lots held for 10 or 12
years to mature (the demands are now so
great that no distillery could afford to apply
this practice to bulk quantities) have con-
conservative old-world firms of a
century’s age that nothing better is made.
These firms had bean ready purchasers
during the last two years, until the conges-
tion of the London docks called for relief.
Quality, flavor, color and b*end are perfect.
As for Australian whisky and gin, what-
ever prejudice against flavor exists or has
existed in the past will disappear as it
becomes understood that many foreign—
especially American—tricks of manufacture
have no place here.
Ireland and the United States.
j T j s quite 011 the cards that the Democrats
m carry the United States Presidential
, v ...... , ,
election——they won the last two and also
upse t the Republican legislative majority,
~,... . . ~ ,
which IS a mere 49 against 4l in the Senate
a nd 238 against 193 in the Reps. (The
VS. b*. » *-*•> I-
view of that possibility, it is worth remem-
bering that when the Democratic platform
„„ drnwn lln i n eb P usual unwieldv con-
was arawn up m tne usual unwieiay con
vention it was only by 6(6 votes against
402 that the recognition of the Irish Re-
public wasn t made a plank. The Demo-
£ rat ?’ th . oU S h forced mto th ®. big war— argely
by the funous pressure ot the Republicans
pose as the peace element, yet it seems
that nearly two-fifths of the gentle pacifists
were willing to chance war with the British
Umpire over Ireland. About the views of
the other party there is less evidence as yet,
hut things are moving. The difficulty about
an y half-hearted scheme of Home Rule (i.e.,
autonomy inside the Empire) is that no
white man’s country is supposed to inter-
fere with the internal affairs of another,
und autonomy is internal. Interference may
happen with weak States which want assist-
ance, or with outlaw States like Turkey to
which the rules don’t apply; but as a gen-
eral thing it “isn’t done.” Apart from the
i aws 0 f the game it isn’t worth while to
support a faction which hasn’t the courage
to burn its boats, for it may patch up terms
ALL THE RAGE.
Passing-it-on, or the absurdly simple little game of Ngbody-wants-it-but-somebody-must-
have-it, as played daily all over the world.
with its old rulers and then turn dog on its
new friends. But when a province declares,
with the rope round its neck, that it has
seceded, then it asks eveTy State to recog-
nise its independence, and any State which
thinks the business worth while does so—at
its own risk. The United States itself had
been more or less at holts with Britain for
two years before it decided to shelve all
question of more complete Home Rule and
cut the painter as an appeal for foreign aid;
and big foreign aid turned up promptly. The
simple position is that no Government cares
to recognise rebels because it may have some
of its own one day, but recognition of an-
other Government, even if it may be practi-
cally in exile like that of the Czecho-Slovaks
in its beginnings, is a different matter. So
there is much more policy in asking for inde-
pendence with the name than for autonomy
on the Australian plan, which is nearly the
same thing but without the name.
The question may be asked whether any-
thing is gained by throwing in free lunch
and a cigar and a .chance in a raffle for an
embroidered pillow-sham with a Govern-
ment loan in the attempt to disguise the
fact that interest is very high and credit
very low. In the new Federal borrowing
of £25,000,000 at 6 per cent, the free lunch
is exemption from State income-tax; the
cigar is a bit of extra interest for the first
half-year; and the ticket in the gamble for
the embroidered pillow-sham is the offer
that any holder of (say) £lOOO in (say)
the last 5 per cent, loan may exchange it
for 6 per cent, stock provided he also takes
up £lOOO of the new 6 per cent, stock. Of
course he will do this bit of high finance
if he can in order to protect his previous
investment, for 5 per cent, stock will look
less gorgeous when there is a 6 per cent,
security on the market. Also if a 7 per
cent, loan comes along with the same pri-
vilege he will take £2OOO in that, and £4OOO
in the 8 per cent, loan to follow. But really
he is getting 7 per cent, for the £lOOO in
the new £25.000,000 loam and why disguise
the fact? Also why not throw off the whole
garment of snuffle and have a lottery loan
right off? Then people would have another
gamble than horse to talk of in the barber’s
shop.
*
Mr. Clifton Penny (defending solicitor): All the
same, it’s a disgraceful state of affairs, and it is
about
Mr. Giles Shaw (magistrate): Call the next case,
please.
—From a daily paper report of the proceedings at
Sydney Central Court.
The attorney who thus lost his professional
calm was appearing for three youths who
had already been remanded three times on
a charge of being “suspected persons,” and
who, because one of the policemen appear-
ing against them was said to find it incon-
venient to attend, were again remanded, this
time till July 9. The gist of the advocate’s
complaint was that, in police-courts, defen-
dants are presumed to be guilty. A plati-
tude, of course; yet one that cannot be too
often stressed. The policeman who enters
this jurisdiction abandons his role of an in-
differently educated and fallible human be-
ing who is subject to more temptations than
most people: in the eyes of the one person
present who matters, he becomes a man whose
word is only to be challenged under most
exceptional circumstances. The procedure
in case after case is as simple as it is swift.
The police give their evidence; the defen-
dant and his witnesses give theirs; the
magistrate convicts. There is only one
exception to the rule—when accused is rich
and decides to make a field-day of it with
heavyweight counsel. The police often use
their tremendous powers in what they
honestly believe to be the interests of jus-
tice and the public welfare. Thus when a
prominent character is visiting a city they
are accustomed to round up batches of pos-
sible assassins, thieves and so on as “sus-
pected persons,” to be held till the crisis is
over. There is no justice in this: the only
shadow of excuse is that it is expedient.
Inevitably, however, other policemen simi-
larly charge people on trivial grounds or on
none at all; and as the extreme improba-
bility, not to say hopelessness, of getting a
magistrate to disbelieve a policeman is pretty
generally known, the way is left wide open
for blackmail. And that being so blackmail
follows in plenty—not only in respect of
betting-shops, brothels and sly-grog restau-
rants, but also in the case of people who
have done no wrong whatever, but are
reluctant to face a police-court conviction
or its alternative, a cause celebre.
—. ♦
A few Federal members say they won t
accept the extra £4OO a year pay, though
they may weaken and quietly collect it when
the public simmers down and after the ad-
vertisement is exhausted. That happened
in every State when payment of members
was first introduced. A few make friends
with the gammon of unrighteousness by
promising to devote the £4OO to charitable
purposes in their own constituencies i.e.,
to buy votes with it. Not one humorist and
first-class advertiser of the lot realised the
possibilities of the situation and boldly
gummed his placard on it for all the world
to read. This is The Bulletin’s idea of
a placard:—
Public Notice.
I beg to announce to my constituents of Bare-
plains that I will collect the additional £lOO salary
so long as I remain in Parliament, which I trust
will be very long, and will devote it to a public
purpose, but not one confined to my own con-
stituency lest it appear like bribery and corruption.
The money will be paid regularly into the Bank
of North Maori land, which has kindly undertaken,
in consideration of a small commission, to invest
it and the accruing income in Commonwealth
securities. I regret to appeal to a private and
alien institution in the matter, but it is necessary
to put the fund, as far as possible, beyond the
reach of Australian Treasurers.
The total will appear regularly in the bank’s
balance-sheet under the heading of “Sinking Fund
for the Abolition of the Australian Public Debt,”
and this sinking fund will bear my name. After
my death, when I will have no more need of advt.,
my name may be removed and the fund re-named
after the biggest living contributor during his life-
time.
Donations are earnestly requested from politicians,
dying millionaires, self-advertisers, philanthropists
and others.
The beginning is small, but the A.M.P. Society
and the Commonwealth Bank and the whole human
race on Creation Day began business with less. It
is necessary to make a beginning, and the man
who gets there first secures the limelight.
That would be small but practical. Most
reforms are large and hazy.
♦
“Rockhampton” gets in some counter-
battery work: —
“Calliope'’ asserts (B. 17/6/’2O) that Port Alma
is dying; also that the inter-State steamers refuse
to carry goods to or from the port. Both state-
ments are untrue. The great bulk of the inter-State
shipping utilises the river Fitzroy (one of the great-
est in Australia and now being systematically
deepened and improved) ; in cases where steamers
have too great a draft for the river, portion of the
cargo is lightered or landed at Port Alma, and the
vessel brings the remainder to the city wharves.
Port Alma is primarily used for over-sea shipping,
and is a safe and easily-approached deep-water harbor.
Wharf-lumpers are not paid for the whole time
they are away from Rockhampton, but only for
actual travelling and working time. With increased
over-sea trade, the wharf-lumper difficulty will dis-
appear altogether. Vessels drawing from 17it. 6in.
to 17ft. 9in. are now coming up the river, and soon
vessels drawing 20ft. will be able to come up with-
out difficulty.
The construction of the Great Central trunk rail-
way was due to Rockhampton men, who organised a
movement for separation from South Queensland and
presented a petition to Downing-street in 1871.
Soon after, the then Southern Government unfor-
tunately induced the leaders of the separation move-
ment to drop the agitation, on a promise that a
railway would be constructed to connect Rockhamp-
ton with the West. This work was eventually car-
ried out, with the result that a great embryonic
State has been created. “Calliope” says: “A rail-
way line to open the hinterland of Gladstone has
been passed by both houses of Parliament, and the
construction of wharves and jetties is now in pro-
gress.” Not content with this “Calliope” wants a
direct line connecting Gladstone with the main
trunk line to rob Rockhampton of her hinterland
and legitimate trade. Wool is being diverted from
Rockhampton to Brisbane (400 miles) as the result
of an unfair railway rate favoring Brisbane, and not
of any port difficulties at Rockhampton.
Gladstone was selected by the Imperial Govern-
ment as a suitable site for a convict settlement in
the North. Lieutenant-Colonel Barney, of the Royal
Engineers, was appointed superintendent, and left
Sydney in January, 1847, in the Lord Auckland
to take possession. But the ship struck on one of
the numerous sandbanks of Port Curtis, and that
upset all the arrangements. Shortly afterwards the
Imperial Government directed the establishment to be
broken up, the only tangible result being a bill for
£20,000, cost of the experiment. In a paper read
before the Royal Geographical Society, Melbourne,
on April 23, 1909, by the late A. C. Macdonald,
F.R.G.S., it was mentioned that, “according to the
Admiralty chart, Port Curtis is shown to be full
of shoals and sandbanks.” Such is “Calliope’s"
natural harbor!


Empire Defence and the Safety of Australia.
Mr. Amery, Under-Secretary for the
Colonies, in giving an outline of the naval
defence proposals for the Empire, stated that
it had been decided to adopt “a new system,
consisting of a defensive chain, of which
each link will be primarily equipped to sus-
tain its oivn defence
Naval Defence is, to Australia, of grave importance, and calls
for preparedness with ships of war, guns and munitions.
Australia cannot risk her safety by dependence upon others
to supply her needs in these directions. The facilities for
their manufacture in case of necessity must be established
here. This makes essential the development, on a sound
basis, of the
Australian Iron
and Steel Industry
apart altogether from the economic aspect of the question.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Maloney, M.H.R. for
Melbourne, a man
of disordered hair who
would sell his own or
anybody else’s shirt and
give the proceeds to a
person without a waist-
coat, struck his billionth
brilliant idea the other
day. He proposed an
allowance of 15s. a week,
apparently for life, to
any man or woman and'
7s. 6d. to a child
"deemed” (by whom not
mentioned) “to be in'
necessitous c i r c u in-
stances.” Maloney, who
is as unlike a greedy
man as can be imagined,
would probably act as
Chief Deemer without
pay and distribute the
largesse. Every member
who sloshes around phi-
lanthropy like this should
be required to accompany
it with a carefully-
thought-out and detailed
estimate of cost and a
programme for raising
the mo n e y—n o t the
“m a k e-t h e-p r o f i t-
e e r-p ay” sort, but a
bill of particulars. And
there should be a penalty
for non-compliance. Too
much sloshing around
makes ill-timed revolu-
tions; and ill-timed re-
volutions make corpses.
Things in London are so much worse
than had been expected that Vic. has given
up hope of raising there even £2,725,000 of
the six-million conversion loan. Of the six
millions the State’s own Treasury had pro-
vided £550,000, thereby doing something of
which no other Australian State is any-
where near capable; as for the other
£5,450.000, Victorian banks undertook to
find half on the understanding that John
Bull would take the other half. But .T.
Bull won’t, except on terms that make
the Treasurer shudder. In desperation
the Government has turned to the holders of
the 4 p.c. bonds maturing in October and
asked them to convert at 6£ p.c. If they
don’t —well, the time seems very close at
hand when an' Australian Government will
be forced to say that the bill is renewed.
Of course that will be an act of bank-
ruptcy ; but with Governments spending
millions and raking the market for new
loans, what hope is there of getting money
for the 85 millions which the States have
promised to repay during the next four
years, after they have arranged for the
current year’s trifle V
The Reps, wasted another day last week.
Tudor, who had tabled a bogus want of con-
fidence, to obtain ammunition for the Bal-
larat election, had his motion shelved by
Lamond moving the adjournment to discuss
the uneasiness in the industrial world.
Lamond’s sudden discovery of the position
was very opportune for the. Govefnment,
which needed a large and elastic subject to
last the two hours allowed for debate.
Hughes’s shout of “To Hell with Consi-
dine!” was a sample of the repartee with
which members earned their thousand a year.
Thomas Walsh, of the inflated head, has
issued a proclamation commanding the sea-
men of all countries “to organise a confer-
ence somewhere in Europe, where we can
meet without regard to country, race or
creed,” and where “the formulation of a
common, policy in the event of another war”
will be the business discussed. “Without
our consent and without our co-operation,”
Thomas flamboyantly observes, “the calamity
of.war cannot again fall on the world.” But
if the conference assembles at Moscow
Thomas will learn, what he ought to know
already, that the Bolshevists have been light-
ing for about two years regardless of the
blockade of the international seamen's
unions. If Berlin is the rendezvous
Tremendous Tommy will discover that his
friends the Huns waged war into the fifth
year in spite of another blockade. The
next great war is very likely to be decided
in the air, and the seamen’s unions will be
as powerless to prevent an aerial campaign
as Buddha’s toe.
Mrs. Snowden, one of the best-known of-
English socialist women and wife of a just-
as-well-kuown British Labor politician, says
that while in Soviet Russia she was offered
£7OOO for her boots —that is to say, Gov-
ernment paper with figures representing
£7OOO printed on it. She declined, because
the boots would be hard to replace in a
land where industry has utterly broken
down and where footgear wears out quickly
in the pursuit of happiness over rough
roads. And boots might be that price in
Australia if unballasted cranks reached
THE POLITICAL TOPHET OF
W. M. HUGHES.
power. About the Perth Labor Conference
time these people had revelations out of a
dpeam-book, and one of them was concern-
ing the issue of paper secured on “the entire
assets of the country” like the Soviet
money of Russia, and like every other Gov-
ernment currency that ever existed—save
for the fact that the paper which has kept
its value has had a gold backing as well.
One manifesto issued in those days was quite
PRODUCING £1000 PER YEAR.
LONG SUFFERING TAXPAYER: “Is this what
you meant when you said ‘Produce , pro-
duce, produce'?"
cross on the subject, and declared that even
a child could see how to pay all the war
expenses, and presumably all other expenses
as well, by judicious finance of this sort.
Even now this country has believers in the
system which makes boots in Russia worth
£7OOO a pair.
From the Federal Gallery
Hughes’s slender majority in the Reps, makes
every vote important; hence g-reat work is being
put in at the ears of Fowler and Francis, two Inde-
pendents who might otherwise be ignored. Fowler,
who has been sitting in frosty seclusion on the back
seat of the Rural corner, has found himself in sudden
favor, and must smile at his unusual popularity after
Hie Government’s treacherous attempt to unseat him
at the last elections. He is no friend of Hughes,
however, and at any time a crisis may arise in
which all the soft footle of Whips will prove to
have been wasted. Both of these Independents,
Fowler and Francis, are absolutely fearless; and if
there are any two men in the House who would give
their votes regardless of personal consequences, they
are probably the pair.
Dr. Arthur confides that Gregory McGirr’s
child-pension scheme, of which the doctor is
godfather, will cost N. S. Wales three mil-
lions for a start. Of course it “will have to
be increased later on, probably doubled or-
trebled”; still “the mother of eight who
will get £7 10s. placed to her account every
month in the Savings Bank... .will be able
tor take -the children an occasional trip to an
ocean beach” ; and that answers all hostile
arguments. The amazing thing is that some
Labor members support this kind of “re-
form,” which is really a return to the old
English Poor Law practice of supplementing
the wages of able-bodied men.
Victoria is the only State which hasn’t
legalised the tote and used it as a means of
revenue. It has legalised betting, because
to outlaw, that would wreck the Melbourne
Cup, but it shudders at the idea of profiting
by it. On the records of other States it
sacrifices £200,000 or £250,000 a year for the
sake of this shudder. Now London has
turned down Attorney-General Robinson’s
appeal for a £6,000,000 renewal loan, or it
put the price so high that Robinson turned
London down, and the luckless State has
£20.000,000 more falling due in the next
three years. The Lawson Cabinet had
better get its tote going quickly and earmark
the wages of sin for an extra sinking fund.
Those wages might save Victoria from the
pit of bankruptcy, which is tangible, while
the bottomless pit is debatable.
The recently-formed Brisbane Trades Hall
Council has cleaned things up a bit. Some
mouths back a scheme to amalgamate the
Labor Day Committee, the Trades Hall
Board and the Industrial Council was agreed
to by . all three, and the new Trades Hall
Council began business. But in the election
of officers some veteran job-holders of the
deceased bodies missed the chariot, and they
got their various organisations to pull away.
George Lawson, M.L.C., President of the
Labor Day Committee, openly admitted that
‘‘the election for office-bearers” (pay enve-
lopes grow naturally on these things) "had
not gone the way they had wished.” How-
ever, when the heap of mud got too big, the
young Council called a mass meeting of
unionists to the Stadium, and got an over-
whelming vote of confidence. Jerry Cahill,
a young cooper, with a bent for history anu
philosophy, is the Council’s first secretary.
Having seen to the construction of 10
6000-tonners in 15 months H. W. Curchin,
Commonwealth Director of Shipbuilding,
leaves that service.
He has brought costs
down to £27 a ton
deadweight, as against
the £36 a ton quoted
in America; and he
reckons that the foun-
dations of a great
industry have been
laid, provided Austra-
lia gives up importing
that it ought
to make itself and gets
rid of the striking and
go-slow habits, which
are also imported
material. Strikes in
other industries have
added £6OOO to the cost
of the Emita, the latest
Commonwealth vessel
to be launched. But
the imported material
was as great a source
of worry as the im-
ported agitator. “You
will have to make it
here if you want to
keep the industry,” is
Curchin’s warning to
a low-tariff country
which doesn’t realise
its own aptitudes and capacities.
Delegates to the Townsville (Q.) Labor
Convention rested from their labors last
week and went home. In a moment of
expansion they signified that they wouldn’t
stand any nonsense from the loathsome capi-
talist who declined to lend Theodore and co.
his money. With like enthusiasm they de-
clared in favor of prohibition, pacifism, “in-
ternational aspirations,” the 18-year-old fran-
chise, the 40-liour working week and the
teaching of Esperanto (or it may have been
Choctaw) in State schools. In the tumult
of another brain-wave they recommended
the Federal Labor party “to eliminate the
powers of officers in the Defence Force, and
to place the controlling powers in the hands
of committees of soldiers and sailors,” which
is idiotic, and commanded that “in future
every position in the Public Service under
the control of the State Labor Government
be given to a known and proved Labor sup-
porter,” which is corrupt. They also regis-
tered a passionate longing for unification,
but when someone suggested giving the thing
a start by compiling a uniform State and
Federal electoral roll they sat on him pro-
perly. It was about the only practicable re-
form proposed in a week of flatulent gas-
conading and gabble, and they turned it
down.
The Victorian railway system has become
so rattled that it is capable of doing any-
thing except perhaps losing a whole passen-
ger train with all its inhabitants, and that
may come. The other day trucks of sheep
addressed to Balranald, a well-meaning little
place beside the Murrumbidgee in N. S.
Wales, arrived at Ballarat, and the Depart-
ment didn’t turn a hair. It reckoned that
as both names began with B it had really
done as well as could be expected, for it
might have delivered the goods at Babylon.
Other things don’t arrive at all, and the man
who expects a dog gets a truck of coal with
a piano buried in its innards. The fact is
that the goods traffic has a bottle-neck to
contend with at the southern or Melbourne
end, and the cork has stuck in the bottle,
while at the northern end much of it has a
choice of bumping against three places where
it can be unloaded into a different-sized
truck if the other truck happens to coincide,
and three where it can fall into the Murray
or stop on the southern bank, as it pleases,
because the line on the other side doesn’t
meet. The great, helpless blockade or
saturnalia or chaos is the sort of thing, like
the Great War, that many people foresaw,
but most people said wouldn’t happen in their
time. Now Commissioner MiScamble, son
of Misfortune, by her marriage with Micaw-
ber, seems to be blamed for everything and
is called on to explain everything, and the
top of his hat is barely visible above a sea
of troubles.
Prendergast, Vic. Opposition leader, lodged
another no-confidence motion last week, and
it was blown out. All the argument was
on the Labor side, as its indictment was
that there were glaring electoral anomalies
which the Government had made no attempt
to rectify. But arguments don’t count much
in Parliament: Lawson had the numbers,
and nothing else mattered.
THE SCIENTIFIC ANARCHIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The scientific anarchist
Went out with 811111111" eyes
The tail of all the world to twist
And make the people wise.
He brought no fireworks along,
No fearful bombs to fling,
But burst into ecstatic song
And cried “Long live the King!”
He clapped and cheered with all his might
When Tories aired their views;
He spoke of capital in flight
And what the State must lose
If Labor in the seats of power
Should make its work complete,
And even for a single hour
Find food for all to eat.
He did not rail at simple strikes
Nor ban State enterprise
By which a statesman, when he likes,
At public cost supplies
Some ancient and discordant fish
That withers in its scales
And blights the hope and stales the wish,
While smell o'er ice prevails.
But in the dark, when none were by
His altered mien to note,
He raised his whiskers towards the sky
And laughed deep in his throat.
And as he read the daily press
He looked across the land.
Great was his smile, he seemed to guess
The time was near at hand.
The scientific anarchist
Came home with happy eyes ;
The world had all its tail a-twist,
The simple folk grew wise.
The fireworks were in his brain ;
Whene’er his steps he bent
The people said in language plain
“Damn all this government!”
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


FOR VALOR.
“Mr. T. J. Ryan states that he is prepared to fight an election in his own stronghold (West Sydney) on the question of the ‘salary grab.’ —News item.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
JESHAS
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms—
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products —
Antimonial Lead. Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead, Lead Drosses. Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL, Manager. T. H. SEARS, Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL, AUSTIN FRIARS, EC. 2
A. J. SMITH, London Manager and Secretary.
SIDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
When Instructing your Solicitor to draw YOUR WILL
direct him to name
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE Company (Ltd.)
<u YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE.
You will thus ensure the safety of the Assets and obtain a degree
of Security for proper Administration far beyond the power of
the private Trustee. An explanatory Booklet will be posted on
application to the Company at Perpetual Trustee Chambers,
Hunter Street, Sydney. Manager: R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of New Zealand: —
r— Dividend.-^,
8} p.e. Pref. Written
March, Profits. 124 p.c. Ore!. Off. Reserves.
1909.. £328,161 £106,250 £15,000 £710,999
1910.. 274,386 106,250 15,000 864,135
10 p.c. pref.
16 p.c. ord.
1911.. 315,270 125,000 20,000 1,034,405
1912.. 366,183 125,000 26,000 1,240,588
1913.. 342,530 125,000 40,000 1,418,118
1914.. 348,490 125,000 40,000 1,601,60 S
Premiums on new shares, £365,536 1,967,144
“A” Pref. “B” Pref. Ord.
10 p.ci 15 p.c. 15 p.c.
y J
1915.. 369,486 229,460 50,000 2,057,170
Premium on new shares,. £12,141 2,069,311
1916.. 336,801 236,507 50,000 2,118,605
1917.. 415,490 237,500 50,000 2,246,595
1918.. 386,607 237,500 50,000 2,345,702
1919.. 438,022 237,500 50,000 2,496,224
“A” Pref. “B” Pref. Ord.
lOp.c. 174 p.c. 174 p.c.
1920.. 469,046 268,750 50,000 2,646,520
Maoriland has had a wonderful run. Even
during the stress and strain of the war-
period it did very well with its products, but
last year, having large accumulations of food
available for a hunger-stricken Europe,
had a gorgeous time. How much better
M.L. has fared than the Commonwealth is
to some extent visible in these comparisons:
Maoriland.
Year end. Surplus of
ing Dec., Exports. Imports. Exports.
1914 .. £26,253,925 £21,144,227 £5,109,698
1915 .. 31,430,822 20,658,720 10,772,102
1918 . . 28,438,187 24,131,729 4,306,458
1919 . . 52,573,520 30,308,908 22,264,612
• Commonwealth.
June,
1915 .. £60,592,576 £64,431,837 £3,839,261*
1918 .. 75,035,222 60,822,164 14,213,058
1919 . . 106,795,815 94,954,760 11,841,055
1920 (nine
months) 108,570,216 62,247,061 46,323,155
*Excess imports.
Between June, 1915, and March last the
Commonwealth, with an average population
of about five millions, showed a surplus of
exports over imports (not including go.d) of
91J millions (about £lB 10s. per head of
population). For the five years to March,
Maoriland, with an averagd population of
slightly over a million, showed excess ex-
ports of almost 55 % millions (over £55 per
head of population). No wonder Maoriland
has been booming! The effects of the very
large favorable trade balance are visible in
the bank deposits, which have moved from
24 millions six years ago to 50 millions as
at March 31 last, representing an increase
of 108 p.c. Meantime the Commonwealth’s
total deposits have increased 54 p.c. The
growth of deposits, however, is not a reliable
basis of comparison, for in both cases they
have been inflated considerably by loan
spendings, Maoriland’s public debt having
been increased by 97i millions since the war
began. But, whereas the Commonwealth is
so far making no effort to meet its indebted-
ness (on the other hand Federal and State
Governments seem mostly concerned as to
where the next loan is coming from), the
Dominion is taxing at the rate of about £l4
per head of population, compared with £5
7s. sd. five years ago. The result has been
that Maoriland hfjs been not only living
within its means, but at March 31 last the
Treasury held an accumulated surplus of 17i
millions.
Last year’s great trading activity must
have provided the B.N.Z. with huge profits
from exchanges. In addition, it had millions
more at work helping to build up record earn-
ings. Gross profits moved from £714,076 for
1914 to £1,217,153 for 1919. and to
£1,376,838 for the past year. But these
figures were after providing for contingen-
cies. Further, the nast year’s gross profits
are shown less £120,000 which has been set
aside as a special grant to the officers’ pro-
vident fund, probably the largest single vote
any Australasian co_. has evgr made to its
employees. Net profits, however, do not
show much spring, partly because, as just
mentioned, the Maoriland Government is
taxing hard, and partly because apparently
£340.000 was set aside out of earnings to
provide for future taxation. The past year’s
outgoings for rates and taxes were only a
few thousands short of the year’s disclosed
net profits before writing down premises, and
over seven times the amount called for six
years ago:—
1913 .. £59,371 | 1917 ..£198.052
1914 . . 61,267 ! 1918 . . 346,385
1915 .. 74,549 | 1919 .. 386,273
1916 . . 137,096 j 1920 . . 456,484
Of last year’s outgo £285,382 represented
income-tax. £146,074 note-tax, £17,12.3 land-
tax and the remaining £7904 rates.
This comparison shows the extraordinarily
rapid growth of the balance-sheet figures:—
1914. 1919. 1920.
Notes in circula- .
tion .. •• £989,882 £3,728,249 £5,760,33<
Bills in circula-
tion, etc. .. 1,403,457 2,860,391 b,(08,30o
Deposits. . . . 18,070,613 31,716,353 37,661.611
Liquid assets . . 12,590,187 23,948,301 33,120,009
Advances . . 11,360,486 18,805,538 19,431,848
Premises .. 449,577 399,80 i 361,108
The B.N.Z. has thus more than doubled its
deposits in six years; but judging from the
general Maoriland experience it is paying in-
terest on only 50 p.c. more fixed deposits,
while it has about 24 times the former
volume of free money to play with. As the
above comparison shows, only about eight
millions more have been advanced, leaving
about 204 millions more to be held in liquid
form. How this money and the big wad of
new notes issued have been put to work is
shown in the next comparison:—
1914. 1920.
Coin and cash . . . . £3,261,510 £8,371,535
Bullion . . . . . . 115,675 46,668
Notes.. .. . . .. 354,082
London investments .. .. 5,076,748 19,622,411
Australasian Investments .. 972,171 4,064,081
Bills receivable . . • ■ 3,164,082 661,231
The management had thus about 23£ mil-
lions more interest-earning than six years
ago. The feature of the comparison above
is the vast accumulation of money tempo-
rarily tied up in London, due to the balance
of trade being so much in the Dominion’s
favor of late. Probably the management has
no regrets about the magnitude of these
accumulations, for over millions of them
represented Treasury Bills earning a sweet
64 p.c.
At the balance prior to the war 61 p.c.
of all liabilities to the public was held in
more or less liquid form ; at March 31 last
over 70 p.c. was liquid, £77 of each £lOO
of new liabilities having been kept handy.
From this point of view the B.N.Z. was
in an extraordinarily strong position, though
the extent of Government paper in the
vaults of all banks nowadays materially
affects comparisons with . pre-war stand-
ards. But at March 31 Maoriland was in
this position so far as its note issues were
concerned: there was gold in the hands of
the banks to cover every £ of paper in cir-
culation.
Last year the directors decided to make
the whole of the ordinaries fully paid, this
call bringing in half a million, of which
£347,453 had been paid up at the balance.
But even with the additional half-million in
hand, so rapid has been the growth of de-
posits that the bank is holding about eight
guineas of the public’s money for each £
of its own. There are further movements of
capital in prospect. The B.N.Z. is bound
hand and foot by a special Act, and it has
to seek Parliamentary permission even to
give its directors an extra bite. The
Dominion Government is a partner in the
concern to the extent of £500,000 of “A”
prefs., now receiving 10 p.c. p.a., £250,000
of “B” prefs., now elevated to 174 p.c., and
£529,988 of very cheap 4 p.c. guaranteed
stock (reduced from two millions by repay-
ments). The Government came in at a
time when Maorilanders, having discovered
what a meat Eldorado the Shivery Isles
were, increased production far beyond local
demands. There being no refrigeration in
those days, a terrific crash followed, and
the Government came to the bank’s assist-
ance.. Lately the directors have been con-
sidering a “re-arrangement of the bank’s
capital and reserve fund,” and Parliament
is to be asked to agree to a reconstruction
which will be of “mutual benefit to the Gov-
ernment and shareholders.” Details of the
scheme will probably not be disclosed until
the matter is brought before Parliament.
* * * •
Allen Taylor and Co., Ltd., timber mer-
chants, etc. (Sydney) :
, r , To Re-
May, 4 root. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1908.. £6,946 10 p.c. = £6,000 £946 £2,522
1909.. 9,574 10 „ „ 6,750 2824 5,346
Premiums on new shares .. 1875 7,221
1910.. 10,406 10 p.c. = 7,545 2861 10,0,82
Premiums on new shares .. 3125 13,207
1911.. 12,911 10 p.c. = 9,614 3297 16,504
Premiums on new shares .. 3125 19 629
1912.. 13,083 10 p.c. = 11,054 2029 21,658
1913.. 15,227 10 „ „ 12,500 2727 24,385
1914.. 17,094 10 „ „ 13,021 4073 28,458
1915.. 18,968 10 „ „ 15,000 3968 32,426
1916.. 17,337 10 „ „ 15,000 2337 34,763
1917.. 12,976 9 „ „ 13,500 34,239
1918.. 12,563 8 „ „ 12,000 563 34,802
1919.. 22,614 13 „ „ 19,500 3114 37,916
1920.. 17,812 10 „ „ 15,000 2812 40,728
The slump in profits has not been due to a
falling-off of trade; in fact, conditions dur-
ing the past 12 months were no doubt much
more favorable than for the previous term,
most of which time the world was still at
war and the future was uncertain. Nor has
the smaller profit been due to increased costs,
for the “understanding” between timber cos.
is so complete that they can be trusted to
take care of themselves. As The Bulletin
pointed out when this co.’s 1019 accounts
came up for review, that year’s disclosed pro-
fits were abnorinal, for four vessels had been
sold to the North Coast S. X. Co., and no
doubt handsome surpluses on book values
resulted. Precisely how much was garnered
in this way cannot be ascertained from the
accounts, for though they detail assets and
liabilities in a commendable fashion, Profit
and Loss operations are screened, one line
providing all the information the directors
proffer. They also have Very little to say
on other matters, their report being mainly
confined to assurances that fixed assets have
been maintained in good order and repair,
valuations carefully made, book debts well
tooth-combed and depreciation at least amply
provided for—all vital factors affecting pro-
fits. In these and other matters the inves--
tor in Allen Taylor’s has necessarily to put
his trp,st in the few right inside.
This co. took over the old Allen Taylor
business 20 years ago, and at the time
when the table begins paid capital was
£60,000. It is now times larger. This
comparison shows where the new capital
and accumulated profits have been put to
work :
1908. 1911. 1919. 1920.
Liabilities. . . . £12,141 £37.386 £59,467 £41,903
Country mills . . 2,364 36,590 62,870 68,133
Pyrmont mill, wharves,
etc 12,000 6,000 3,750 3,250
Vessels . . . . 19,595 31,183 13,312 15,051
Stocks 12,860 41,504 62,865 62,204
Cash, etc 467 24,520 10,561 7,019
Book debts.. .. 29,969 62,018 75,025 49,474
Insurance and reserve
fund investments 418 21,800 32,500 35,000
The second line indicates how the co. is
getting its saws into new timber, the book
value of interests among the big sticks being
practically double what it was in 1914. But
the past six years have not been so fat as
the previous six, when the State construc-
tion programmes were helping the co.:—
r-Six years to— >
Increase of 1914. 1920.
Liquid assets .. ..£106,128 £3,855
Fixed assets .. .. 38,824 13,661
Total assets ..£144,952 £17,516
Liabilities .. .. 25,245 4,517
Net assets .. ..£119,707 £12,999
New capital and share
premiums . . . . 98,125 Nil
Net improvement . . £21,582 £12,999
Dividends have averaged 10 p.c. p.a. over
both periods. Though the balance-sheets
show an improvement of £34,581 over the
12 years, the £40,728 of reserves shown in
the first table cannot be regarded as wholly
stored-up profits, for £35,000 is in an in-
surance and reserve fund, and how much of
that accumulation is a provision against cur-
rent risks is not visible. What is clear is
that the co. has had a highly profitable life
and that it is now evidently in a better
position to secure stocks than at any pre-
vious time. Whether the co. will have as
great a demand for its sticks in the immediate
future.is another matter, for both Federal
and State Governments are discovering
that supplies of money for works pro-
grammes are very hard to get, even at ruin-
ous rates of interest; and the era of long-
deferred taxation is coming due. This means
depression ; but how severe or how long no-
body can tell —it depends on seasons, mar-
kets and our national good sense. But when
. the illusions and troubles resulting from the
recent spell of “prosperity” are dispelled,
recovery to the new normal should be rapid,
for we live in a country capable of marvel-
lously quick recoveries.
Victorian Butter Factories Co-opera-
tive Co. (Melbourne) :
Dividends. Bonus to Written
April, Profit. (5 p.c.) Clients. Off. Reserves.
1908.. £997 £l6l £784 £2,938
Loss.
1909.. 1,595 1,343
Profit.
1910.. 1,443 2,786
1911.. 4,193 162 2182 4,635
1912.. 7,102 163 £4829 2045 4,700
1913.. 3,208 403 1483 6,022
(6 p.c.)
1914.. 4,898 484 3734 1482 5,220
1915.. 3,817 699 1525 6,813
1916.. 825 703 604 1025 5,306
1917.. 3,322 703 696 1025 6,204
1918.. 10,823 710 3826 1218 11,273
1919.. 8,062 725 4684 1025 13,501
(10 p.c.)
1920.. 12,239 1219 3898 3521 17,102
The progress which this co. has made
during recent years has provided a fine
advt. for co-operative effort among producers.
The concern is now in its 20th year, and
for a long time, as the table indicates, the
management had a hard struggle. But when
in favorable seasons better profit did show
up co-operators were not greedy, as is so
often the case in such enterprises, and the
concern has been strengthened considerably
by accumulated profits. Though paid
capital is now only £12,191, after providing
for recent divs. and bonuses reserves
amounted to no less than £17,102. Co-
operators are now benefiting from their self-
denial in the past, the div. rate being lifted
from 6 to 10 p.c. For the past 12 months
commission earnings, etc., brought in
£17,232. Only £5404 of this was required
to meet wages and office and all other ex-
penses, leaving a profit of £11,828. In the
table, however, £l9ll which has . been
dropped into an insurance reserve has also-
been included, and £l5OO set aside for taxa-
tion has been deducted. Besides the 10 p.c.
div. to shareholders, co-operators get £3898
as a cash bonus on consignments, while a
sum not far short of the amount rebated is
left in the business. The co. just at present
wants every penny it can hold on to, for
prospects of expansion have been so bright
that during the past year the management
spent £19,338 on extending the freezing
works and remodelling the box factory. The
effect of this outlay on the balance-sheet
figures over the past year is shown in this
comparison, which also illustrates the rapid
progress the co. has made during the past 10
years:—
1910. 1919. 1920.
Capital £3,230 £12,091 £12,191
Liabilities 25,247 15,017 29,370-
Premises and Plant .. .. 18,821 12,947 32,263
Stocks 5,734 20,283 10,778
Book debts . . . . .. 6,708 10,737 19,746-
Cash and War Loan .. .. 3,797 5,221
Shares in other cos. .. .. 30 800-
The liquid surplus of £19,829 of a year ago
had at the latest balance been reduced to-
£7lG9. Ten years ago, however, there was
an excess of liabilities . over more or less
liquid assets of £12,805. Since 1910 the
book value of net assets has increased from
a little £OOlO to £39,432, though meantime
paid capital has been enlarged by only
£B9Ol. That indicated an improvement of
£30,471 in the 10 years, or not far short
of 24 times the present paid capital. This
is not necessarily all stored-up profit, for
some of the accumulation represents a set-
off against wear and tear of plant. Still, it
is a splendid record, and probably unique
in Australian co-operative enterprises, which;
have been so frequently retarded by the
hunger of co-operators when profits have
shown up.
The co.’s interests have so expanded that
it has been decided to reconstruct with a
nominal capital of £lOO,OOO, in 20,000 shares
of £5 each, five times the present • nominal
capital. Since old co-operators left much
profit behind to develop the business it is
also now proposed to adjust their interests
by issuing scrip for portion of the reserves
accumulated, four £5 shares in the new co.
being exchanged for each £lO share in the
old one.
* •* * ■*
Solomon Islands Development Co. :
March, Loss. Dividends. To Reserves. Deficit.
1909.. £847 Nil £847
Profit.
1910.. 78 Nil £7B 769
Reserves.
1911.. 1,294 Nil 1,294 525
1912.. 1,613 5 p.c. =£2ooB 130
Premiums on new shares 5,993 6,123
1913.. 4,506 74 p.c. = £3265 1,241 7,364
1914.. 4,871 10 „ „ 4889 7,346
1915.. 2,308 Nil 2,308 9,654
Premiums on shares. . 53 9,707
1916.. 2,676 Nil 2,676 12,383
Premiums on shares. . 18 12,401
1917.. 2,976 Nil 2,976 15,377
1918.. 4,227 Nil 4,227 19,604
1919.. 3,573 Nil 3,573 23,177
1920.. 10,449 Nil 10,449 33,62 6
Twelve months ago this page remarked that,,
with luck, the estimated output of between
550 and 000 tons copra for the forthcoming
year might be expected to give a profit of
about £lO,OOO. The harvest was, however,,
disappointing, for only 529 tons were got..
But the market was so favorable that a
profit of £10,449 was made, equal to over'
12 p.c. on paid capital. But there is to-
be no div., the whole of the net earnings
having gone to finance development, which
would otherwise have necessitated calls. As
it was, a further £7 10s. per £lOO share
was called up during the year to reduce the
co.’s liabilities. So far £85,000 of the
£lOO,OOO issued capital has been got in. But
the co.’s seven estates have already swal-
lowed £110,194, £33,620 of stored-up profits
having been gobbled, together with paid capi-
tal, to develop and equip the enterprises.
Since this outlay has planted only 3982 of
the 50,000 acres available, it would appear
that the Burns-Philp crowd, who promoted
and still run the concern, miscalculated
when they set down £lOO,OOO of capital as
ample to put the show properly on its feet.
They had not reckoned on so many labor
troubles. Everything would have gone well
had a plentiful supply of Black Brother
been available; but the Solomon Islander
would rather bask in the sun than work the
white man’s plantations, and all efforts to
recruit labor from adjoining islands has been
frowned upon by Authority. So the S.I.
Development Co. has developed very slowly,
and a couple of years ago the management
came to the conclusion that 4000 acres was
about the limit that available labor and
capital could handle. Since all but 18 acres
of this area had been planted or prepared
when the accounts closed, the co.’s develop-
ment programme is, for the present, almost
complete. Earlier plantings are meantime
coming into bearing, and production has in-
creased in this way during the past five
years:—•
Copra. Rubber.
1916 192 tons 417 lb.
1»17 274 „ - 1414 „
1918 361 „ 2589 ..
1919 476 ~
1920 529 ~
Owing to the market slump and other


Dalgety S Company
Limited —;
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
f hePacific Cableßoard
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN.
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America, to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Mondav morning.
TARIFF PER' WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain 3/- _ 1/6
/ 9d. (minimum
\ 15/-, 20 words)
.. tid.
.. 2/4 1/2
New Zealand
Canada
! 7d. (minimum
11/8,20 words)
U.S.A 2/4 to 2/S 1/2 to 2/4
/ 7d. (minimum
\ 11/8,20 words)
Week-end Service with the United Kingdom
and U.S.A. has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable, forms. Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
.THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. TeL 2588.
J. MILWARD. Manager in the Pacific,
; 77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Since the introduction of electricity for lighting
and power purposes, many home 3 in both the city
and country have been denied its numerous uses
owing to the inaccessibility of a supply. To over-
come this state of affairs, and permit everybody to
en.ioy electrical, convenience, the G.E. Home Light
and Power Unit has been developed. This outfit
consists of an engine, generator and storage battery.
It is compact, strong, simple, economical to run
and practically automatic in operation. Write for
full particulars. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street,
Sydney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne. — Advt. [ 1
* * * *
Experience is an oculist that sometimes cures blind
faith. Experience with “Adamax” Asphaltum Hoof-
ing gives builders everywhere absolute faith in its
lasting qualities, and superiority in every roofing
essential. “Adamax” is easily handled —costs less
than galvanised iron, less for freight and less to
lay. In addition “Adamax” will not pinhole or
rust, whilst acids do not affect it. Write for free
booklet, get full information. William Adams and
Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and
Adelaide.— Advt. 11
* * * *
For grinding all classes of material in Ball Mills
and Tube Mills it is necessary to have a suitable
grinding medium. The mines in West Australia,
also numerous cement plants, are using balls of forged
tyre steel, and find that they give excellent resillts.
These balls may be obtained in various sizes from
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of Melbourne, who
have put in a special plant for forging them, and
can give delivery of most sizes from stock. This
company also manufactures forged steel shoes and
dies for battery work. — Advt. 13
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe. —Letter received from
Table Cape Municipality, Council Chambers, Wyn-
yard, dated 19th August, 1914: “The five miles 60
chains of Bin. wood pipes (for pressures of 350 ft.
head) which were supplied by you for the Wynyard
waterworks, have proved to be very satisfactory.
They are giving good results. Yours faithfully.
(Sgd.) H. K. Littler, Town Clerk.” Send for our
illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Company, Ltd., (11.0.) Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and Foots-
cray, Victoria. Contractors to all State Govern-
ments.— Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Ur.iv.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. (London) ; Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work ; contractors advised ; railway work.
90 Queen-street, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide.— Advt.
* * » *
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlafi,
Melbourne.” — Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus. Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oevtlingb
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lovvesi
rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B. Selby & Co..
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt.
AIROSTYLE
PAINT-SPRAYING UNIT.
Supersedes painting by brush for big jobs,
faster and more thorough. Get particulars.
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
National Mutual Buildings,
Cr. Queen & Collins Streets, Melbourne.
Cl YEARS’ REPUTATION.
PIONEER Leather Belting'
guaranteed by J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON LTD.
TANNERS & LEATHER BELT MAKERS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED IN 1858.
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS
u
m
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VAI/LO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
troubles no tapping has been done on the
190 acres under rubber during the past two
years, but 5000 trees are to be invited to
contribute to the current year’s revenue,
while 14 Tahitian divers have been engaged
to resume the pearl-shelling in the Manning
Straits. The management does not risk a
forecast of copra production for the current
year, but, since development outlay is to be
restricted, if the co. is fortunate shareholders
might next year expect a taste after their
long wait.
Beale and Co., Ltd., the pioneer Sydney
piano-manufacturing concern, which has sold
over 40,000 pianos during its 25 years, has
lately been unable to accept all the orders
which have offered, so the public was invited
to subscribe £lOO,OOO of 8 p.c. cum. prefs.
to extend the factory and liquidate £65,000
of debentures. Since, including the new
capital, there would be net tangible assets
exceeding £410,000 to protect the £lOO.OOO
of new pret's., the issue was snapped up.
* * , * *
There is a better hope now that the 15-
months-old strike at Broken Hill will be
settled. The last round-table conference was
mismanaged; and, anyhow, the men were
not disposed to give much away, expecting
that the report of the technical commission
on mihers’ diseases, promised for the end of
June, would help them. It probably won’t.
The percentage of men who are afflicted
with the occupational diseases so much
talked about is very small. Of just-upon
4000 examined 130 were found to be suf-
fering from fibrosis (dust on the lungs),
50 from fibrosis with tuberculosis, 31 from
tuberculosis alone. A condition of pneu-
moconiosis (that is the long name for the
old miners’ asthma) occurs, just, of course,
as it occurs among every body of men who
work in dust (among coal-miners' it is
anthracosis) ; but
The condition of pneumoconiosis arising in Broken
Hill differs from that of silicosis produced by the
inhalation of siliceous dust, for example, at Ben-
digo, Cobar or Ivalgoorlie, in that there is much
less involvement of the portions of the lung directly
concerned with the act of breathing. The persons
affected with pneumoconiosis arising at Broken Hill
show much less shortness of breath than usually
accompanies the silicosis of miners.
From pulmonary diseases of all kinds (ex-
cluding acute pneumonia), between May,
1917, and June, 1920, 215 miners died. That
is 70 a year among an average of about 7000
men. The percentage is probably larger
among bank clerks. In addition there is a
certain amount of lead-poisoning. But this
is no longer a very serious, matter. Once
it was dreadfully serious; but that was in
the days when carbonate ore was worked
and when smelting was done on the mines.
The very complex sulphide ore is of a low
lead value; and the lead is not “free.”
Very satisfactory as are the results dis-
closed, the conditions can be improved. The
Commission recommends various methods:
no man suffering from T.B. or miners’
asthma should be permitted to work in or
on the mines; and “some scheme for pro-
viding employment for these persons with-
drawn from the mines Should be prepared,
so that no obligation is thrown on the
worker, removed from the mine, to find for
himself a fresh avenue of work.” In this
connection the timber-conservation and
-getting schemes which some of the mines
have in hand, and in which the others might
well join, occur to The Bulletin.
* * * *
Before Sydney City Council acquires a coal-
mine at Central Illawarra it should ponder
the opinions of Prof. David, E. F. Pittman,
L. F. Harper and other geologists, who aver
that the coal south of Mt. Kembla (where
the Newcastle-Illawarra coal-basin outcrops)
is inferior in quality and of little commer-
cial value. Yet it is a fact that Hoskins,
Ltd., of the Lithgow ironworks, have spent
about half a million on the same seam on
the Wongawilli leases, at West Dapto; and
they know something about coal. The seam
is unquestionably dirty wherever tried; but
the point is whether, notwithstanding that,
some effort should not be made to use it.
Ought we to go on consuming only our high-
quality stuff? On tiie other hand, assum-
ing that we ought to try to use the lower-
grade stuff, should we employ it in works
upon which the metropolis so largely de-
pends for power and light for a thousand
industries? All of which is, of course, quite
apart from the question whether the price
asked is a fair one for an undeveloped pro-
perty in such a district.
* * * *
After a shut-down following on the mar-
ket slump when the war terminated, Hamp-
den-Cloncurry (N.Q.) got its smelters going
again in September last, and the furnaces
ran continuously for 164 days during the
term to Feb. 29. General-manager Erie
Huntley has been cheered by the improve-
ment in the efficiency of labor, and notes “a
willingness amongst the general body of
employees to do better work than has been
customary during the last few years”—
maybe the influence of the extra 3d. per
hour awarded by the Court, which' adds
£23,000 per annum to the co.’s wages bill.
Here is the Hampden-Cloncurry record since
1917 :
Ore Blister Working
ions. tons. Profit.
Feb., 19X7 .. 46,85 G 3331 £64,539
Aug., 1917 . . 54,723 3311 116,363
Feb., 1918 . . 49,065 3262 67,550
Aug., 1918 .. 56,603 3455 61,016
Loss.
Feb., 1919 . . 30,135 1758 51,392
Aug., 1919 3,506
Profit.
Feb., 1920 . . 46,710 3360 74,471
The £74,471 working profit for the past
half —whittled down to a net profit of
£47,433 after meeting office exes., deprecia-
tion, etc. —was, of course, only approximate.
Stocks had been piling up, and at the bal-
ance accounted for £287,■013, or £lBO,OOO
more than six months ; previously. These
had been included on the basis of electro-
lytic at £lOO per ton, : after allowing an
ample margin for realisation charges. The
management is only now learning what its
stocks were actually worth, for the ship-
ping hold-up and the strike at Kembla re-
sulted in accumulations of blister on the
Townsville wharves. Owing to these
troubles the co. missed the high prices offer-
ing earlier in the year.
Though the metal market outlook has not
been over-bright lately, chairman Wharton
is not depressed. He considers that the ’Mur-
kan ring, which practically controls the
world’s copper, will not allow prices to slump,
wherefore Hampden-Cloncurry, which turns
out copper at approximately £SO per ton —
not much more than the cost to U.S. pro-
ducers —should be able to keep its feet
Three years ago Erie Huntley reckoned up
reserves of high-grade smelting ore at
178,200 tons containing 15,808 tons copper;
now he estimates 94,600 tons containing
7400 tons copper. In addition there are
vast tonnages of low-grade ore, which,
Huntley says, “will in all probability eventu
ally be recovered by some less-costly process
than smelting.” Meantime development is
proceeding in the co.’s numerous mines, the
most promising find lately having been a
12 p.c. body in the Answer which “may add
considerably to reserves.” Apart from the
£45,375 interest in refining and metal manu-
facturing cos., at the February balance
Hampden-Cloncurry had a liquid surplus of
£164,036. Paid capital is £350,000 in £1
fully-paids.
# * # *
The agreement between the Speck Govern-
ment and the Read-Rosebery Co. is ready
for the seals and signatures of the parties.
The State is to supply 15,000 electric h.p.
at Zeehan for 15 years at £2 15s. per h.p.
per annum, and receive a minimum payment
of £41,250 each year. The power will come
from Lake Rolleston, near Lake Margaret,
where Mt. Lyell’s electric power is gene-
rated. It is reckoned that the lake, with
a catchment of 25 square miles, can give
25,000 h.p. at the turbines, equal to 22,500
h.p. at Zeehan, so that there will be a mar-,
gin to work on. The transmission line will
be only 10 miles long, as against 63 from
the Great Lakes works to Hobart. The
scheme will cost the State about half a mil-
lion, and the co. will spend about three-
quarters of a million on smelters and other
works.
Two years ago mine-manager Atkinson
estimated ore reserves at Vegetable Creek,
Emmaville (N.S.W.), at 220 tons tin oxide,
and declared that “beyond the present 12
months the outlook is not hopeful.... abso-
lute lack of success in developments leaves
us with a possible life of at most two
years.” But the wash in the Gordon shaft
proved better than he had reckoned on, and
the record tin market also came to his
assistance, making the treatment of head-
ings and other discarded material profitable.
Here is the Creek’s log for the past three
years:—•
Tin
April, Oxide. Realised Profits. Dividends.
1918 .. 20-4 tons £37,227 £9,061 £10,125
1919 .. 319 „ 66,268 39,401 40,500
1920 . . 325 „ 60,415 33,594 33,750
When the April sixpenny div. had been
passed out to shareholders, total distribu-
tions amounted to £110,250* exceeding paid
capital by a few hundreds, but no less than
£74,250 represented dividends paid during
the past two years of record tin prices.
Though 644 tons have been won since 1918,
Atkinson can see a further 170 tons await-
ing extraction. Of this 160 tons are in the
Gordon shaft, the remaining 10 tons con-
sisting of old headings and hopperings. Dur-
ing the past year the Allen workings cut
out; since this shaft was put down in 1912
366 tons, worth £56,134, had been won from
a 2900 ft. lead. This compares with other
sections: Rock shaft, 326 tons from 3600 ft.;
Skinner’s, 80 tons from 2400 ft.; Chandler’s,
944 tons from 2400 ft. ; while from 3000 ft.
in Gordon’s 568 tons have so far been pro-
duced. There extraction is overtaking de-
velopment ; practically the whole of the
lead has been blocked out, and crosscutting
for side patches is not disclosing anything
of consequence. Boring on the co.’s Strath-
bogie and Newstead leases has so far not
proved payable ground, but since Atkinson
considers it unreasonable to suppose that
the ore cut oft abruptly where it had been
worked further up the channel, boring is to
continue at the Strathbogie. The Newstead
he regards as an "attractive deep-lead pros-
pecting venture,” but the ground is hard and
water heavy. Vegetable Creek at April 21
had liquid assets of £14,284, and owed
(apart from possible taxation) only £1689.
Steady yields and the premium on gold
resulted in Adelong Creek (N.S.W.) share-
holders pocketing 2s. 6d. in divs. during the
past half-year and then leaving the qo. with
a healthy bank balance. The last of the
debenture debt has been wiped off, so unless
poor ground is ahead there is little likeli-
hood of calls. The nigger in the wood-pile
of these alluvial shows working on a very
narrow margin on a big turnover is the
cost of supplies and labor. Last half No. 1
dredge’s costs jumped from 4.28 d. per yd.
to 4.94 d., and No. 2 plant’s from 3.88 d. to
5.32 d. Still, there is a happy confidence
about the Adelong Creek Board, begotten,
no doubt, of past work. They now talk of
building up reserves to buy other properties.
* * * *
“G. Arden Hill”: There is a scare among
the coal-miners at Mount Kembla, N.S.W.
South Coast, over the large volume of dust
kicked up by the electric coal-cutters in use
in that mine. That coal-dust is a powerful
agent in spreading and intensifying the
force of an explosion has been convincingly
proved by exhaustive inquiries since me
big disaster at Mt. Kembla, 18 years ago,
and as gas has recently been fou.nd in the
mine by the Government inspectors in 10
out of 18 places examined, it would seem
as though the men have good grounds for
their apprehension. The theory is that in
a gaseous mine a small pocket of gas may
by some means become ignited. The result-
ant “pop” might be a small thing in itself,
but in the midst of almost impenetrable
clouds of fine dust (such as are frequently
met with in dry parts of the pits) it would
have a devastating effect. Those who heard
it are not likely to forget the roar when
Kembla went up on that chill July evening
in 1902. Of course, since that time the use
of safety-lamps has been made compulsory,
and the danger of contact with a naked light
is very remote. In the old days the men
used to carry tallow-lamps on their peaked
caps, and it was common for these naked
lights to ignite pockets of gas in crevices
and depressions of the roof, and for the blue
flame to dart zig-zag fashion for 20 or 30
yards along the heading. This was what
was called making “pretties,” and very little
notice was taken of it. It is also a fact
that in rare places where the gas hissed
from the seam a natural jet has been lit
to add to the illumination of the working
place. Such dangerous pranks are unthink-
able to-day, but sparks fly when the pick or
cutters strike any foreign substance in the
coal, and where gas and coal-dust cannot be
adequately coped with by ventilation it is
just as well to take no risks.
White Hope (W.A.) has started opening
out at 100 ft., and the doubts about values
being maintained should soon be settled.
Unquestionably the shafts were sunk on the
best surface values, but would it have been
sane mining to have put them down on the
worst? The fact that most of the costeens
and pot-holes dug between and beyond the
three original shafts gave poor results is,
it is claimed, no guide at all to the value
at depth of the ore surrounding them.
In the north shaft, started a month or two
ago, values have improved in 50ft. of sink-
ing from about 4dwt. to half an
ounce.
* * * *
Bendigo Amalgamated’s June yield worked
out at over 164dwt. for the 7403 tons?
handled, but that was due to Constellation
averaging 2275. for its contribution of 1552
tons. The last nine fortnightly yields from
that mine have given 20,3040 z. from 6196
tons. Unity has improved to 235., and has
succeeded in wiping out a debit of £5OOO
scored against it in the early days of pros-
pecting the Victory run of stone. Carlisle,
the pioneer in this belt of spurs, was doing
badly until of late, but the north stopes at
1140 ft. and 1200 ft. are now giving from 245.
to 30s. This sweetens the Bs. to 13s.
stuff broken elsewhere in the mine, and if
the output can be increased with a trifle
better-grade stone Moline could again regard
the Carlisle as a stand-by. He is -working
hard to get the measure of things at the
Ironbark, where prospecting is proceeding
on the big spurry formations. He is also
out into the eastern beds on the Sheenshead
line, where everything is new. Below~64oft.
at the Monument shaft is another big lode
of quartz, and as some gold has been got
alongside the slates the shaft is to go down
to measure things up.
* * * *
The silver-lead find at Indooroopilly. near
Brisbane, has been passed over to a co..
Finney’s Hill United, in 100,000 shares of
£1 each, which went to registration last
week. The prospectors dug out 157 tons
ore, which at Cockle Creek gave 13,0430 z.
silver and 78 tons lead. On the strength
of work done in an open cut (60ft. long
and averaging 12ft. deep) and in a 50ft.
shaft therefrom, mining-engineer Hugh
Walker talks of an ore body 180 ft. long
and 130 ft. wide at the adit level. He con-
siders that the surface outcrop represented
only the peak of the body of carbonates, and
that indications point to its extension with
depth. Taking silver at 3s. and lead at £2O,
he estimates the probable value of ore to
the adit level (he., presumably, in the out-
crop alone) at £lOO,OOO. Of the 65,000
shares issued by Finney’s United, the pros-
pectus states that “the consideration to the
vendor is the allotment of 31,500 fully
paid-up shares to him or his nominees, and
for the payment of £13,200 in cash for the
options and properties.” What this clumsy,
ungrammatical sentence means is not clear;
but since the ss. per share paid on allotment
of the 23,500 offered the public brings in
only £8375. presumably the £13,200 cash
payment' is deferred —possibly to be met
when profits show up.
•* * * *
Though geologist Dr. Wade a couple of
years ago failed to discover any indications
of oil on Bruny Island (Tas.), a syndicate
(mostly Adelaide-financed) is applying for
a lease of a few thousand acres there, and
proposes to make a systematic search. The
syndicate threatens to bore Bruny until a
gusher is tapped, or the island is scuttled
or shareholders lose heart —whichever hap-
pens first.


CIRCULAR
Issue of 100,000 8°/ 0 Cumulative Preference Shares
BEALE AND COMPANY
LIMITED
[lncorporated under the Companies Acts of New South Wales on 19 th April, 1900]
REGISTERED OFFICE : 41-47 TRAFALGAR ST., ANNANDALE, near SYDNEY, N.S.W.
PRESENT DIRECTORS :
OCTAVIUS CHARLES BEALE
(Chairman and Managing Director)
KELSO KING
RONALD MATHIESON BEALE
JAMES WILLIAM HOLMES
CAPITAL:
Authorised Capital - - - £500,000
Ordinary Shares fully paid-up £210,000
Preference Shares now offered £lOO,OOO
Total Paid-up Capital - £310,000
BANKERS:
THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
SOLICITORS: ALLEN, ALLEN & HEMSLEY
Wigram Chambers, Castlereagh Street, Sydney
BROKERS : TITMUS & QUINAN
Yaralla Chambers, 109 Pitt St., Sydney
AUDITORS : BRIERLEY Be BRIERLEY
Daking House, Sydney
HE Directors offer for subscription 100,000 Eight per
cent. Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each,
payable 10/- on application and 10/- on allotment;
or, at the option of applicants desiring terms, 2/6 on appli-
cation, 2/6 on allotment, and the balance at 2/6 per share
per month thereafter.
The above-mentioned 100,000 Preference Shares are
entitled to rank, for both capital and dividends, in priority
to the Ordinary Shares in the Capital of the Company. The
8% dividend is payable half-yearly (August and February)
from date of payments made by Shareholders.
The Company is well-known throughout Australasia as
a successful concern manufacturing Pianos, Player-Pianos,
and other Musical Instruments, during more than a quarter
of a century. The Company’s Factories (freehold) are most
modern, and completely equipped; whilst the business has
made uninterrupted progress. They occupy about three acres
of land, and contain several acres of floor space. More than
40,000 Pianos have been sold by the Company, and the de-
mand for its products for some time past (even before the
War) has exceeded its power to supply. The Company is
also self-contained to an unusual degree in manufacturing
from crude material its own requirements, which is a con-
dition of safety proved during the War.
The Company has recently acquired, at the price of
£36,000, upon easy terms, the freehold land and building at
340 George Street, now occupied by Flavelle Bros. Ltd. It
is a handsome four-storey building with basement, the
whole, when renovated, being eminently suitable for chief
showrooms.
Orders actually in hand upon which deposits have been
paid exceed £40,000, and at the same time urgent cash
orders for its products from New Zealand and more distant
countries are constantly declined.
It is therefore proposed by the Directors to erect exten-
sions of the Company’s factories so as to increase, firstly,
its power to manufacture all parts required; and, secondly,
to materially enlarge its output. For this reason, in.chief,
the present issue of £lOO,OOO Eight per cent. Cumulative
Preference Shares is made.
The liquid portion of the Company’s Assets consists of
secured Customers’ Balances of £173,958. Calculated over
six years, the losses by bad debts (including losses by cus-
tomers in floods and cyclones) average, altogether, less than
3/6 per £lOO of sales—not even one-quarter of one per cent,
of sales.
The Queensland business is worked as a separate Com-
pany, the parent concern taking over the whole of the
shares. The capital of the Queensland Company is repre-
sented by secured assets, with the exception of £lO,OOO in-
cluded for goodwill, against which, however, it received
signed orders for goods, plus deposits paid, to approximately
the same amount.
Goodwill is not otherwise included in the Assets of this
Company, although its many years of successful manufac-
ture and trading, together with orders in hand, would justify
a very considerable reckoning.
Secured upon the Company’s Assets are Debentures or
Equitable Mortgage to the amount of £125,000. It is the
intention of the Directors to apply £65,000 of the Preferent
Capital, when received, in reduction of such indebtedness.
The Directors have no present intention to issue debentures
beyond the £60,000 remaining, but in the interests of the
Company they reserve the right to do so to the extent of
one-fourth of the Company’s total assets over indebtedness.
Should it become desirable to issue debentures or
mortgages to a still further extent, the Company will not
dg so without first calling a meeting of the Preference
Shareholders, and obtaining the consent of the majority in
value of those present at such meeting to such issue.
The Company’s present position, and its position after
completed issue of the Preference Shares now offered, are
shown in the Statement of the Public Accountants (Messrs.
Brierley and Brierley) whose further certificates as to cover
by the Company’s earnings, and as to losses by bad debts,
are also appended.
At the offices of the Brokers (Messrs. Titmus and
Quinan) the Company’s Memorandum and Articles of Asso-
ciation may be inspected, together with a certificate as to its
earnings by intending subscribers. Immediately after the
issue of the Cumulative Preference Shares, it is the inten-
tion of the Company to have them listed upon the Stock
Exchanges of Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide.
Statement of Total i\ssets and Total Actual Liabilities
THE COMPANY’S ASSETS at 3rd April, 1920.
Customers’ Debit Balances £173,958 1 3
Merchandise and Factory Stocks (at cost and
under) 87,532 13 1
Shares in Beale and Co. (Queensland) Ltd 105,000 0 0
Freehold Land and Buildings at Annandale .. .. 44,500 0 0
(Valuation by Richardson and Wrench Ld.)
Machinery, Plant and Tools 38,712 14 0
(Valuation by Julius and Poole.)
Motor Vehicles, Furniture and Fittings .. .. 2,195 3 0
Sundry Debtors 11,864 2 1
Cash at Branches, Bills Receivable and Deposit on
Freehold 6,840 11 8
Total Assets £470,603 5 1
THE COMPANY’S LIABILITIES.
Debenture and other Loans . . .. £130,518 310
Interest accrued (not due) .. .. 1,329 9 0
Bills Payable (Goods to arrive) .. 4,174 14 11
Sundry Creditors (including pro-
vision for taxes not yet due) 1,0,485 17 3
Deposits paid by Customers upon
Goods yet to deliver . . . . 3,458 6 9
Total Liabilities £149,966 11 9
Balance £320,636 13 4
The Company’s Position to Preferred Shareholders
after an issue of £lOO,OOO in Preference Shares would be as follows,
after paying off £65,000 of existing Debentures and adding the balance
of £35,000 to the Assets:
Total Assets (as per valuations to be seen at
Brokers’ Office) £505,603 5 1
Liabilities—
Debentures maturing in 1930 .. £60,000 0 •!)
Other Advances 5,518 3 10
Current Trade Creditors (including
interest, taxes yet to fall due,
deposits paid by customers on
their orders, and other debits) 19,448 7 11
84,966 11 9
Assets available for protection of the £lOO,OOO
subscribed by Preference Shareholders .. £420,636 13 4
The Directors
in the “Daily
beg to announce that since the authorisation of the advertisement herewith, which also appeared
Telegraph” and “Sydney Morning Herald/’ on Wednesday, 7th inst., the share issue has been over-
subscribed and no further shares ar
- /


ABBOTS
LAGER
without
a Jtival --
Afadefrom
*Af&/f<s>/fops
osar \
He
r
USii.
o<2i
9
gd
Are you imprisoned in an invisible cage?
Do you experience that awful loneliness only
known to those who cannot hear?
Why remain out of it whilst your friends
are enjoying themselves?
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE
has been proved by thousands of Australasian
citizens with over 8 years of daily use, in
Business, the Theatre and Church.
It is recommended by the leading Ear
Specialists, and is in every respect a ’
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
The Mears Ear-Phone is positively the small-
est, neatest and most scientific instrument for
the deaf, and will last a lifetime.
May we send you a little booklet, and
place before you our FREE TRIAL OFFER?
You will be under absolutely no obligation.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
387 George Street, Sydney.
Hofei Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
-DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SRLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfIINQ ROOF GARDEN.
Management F. T. CHEESEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Having lived to see the Germans, who took
her husband prisoner, defeated by the Re-
publicans, who drove her out of France,
Eugenie, the last Empress of the French,
died last week, aged 94. She was a Spanish
countess when she married Napoleon the
Little, but her maternal grandfather was a
North of Ireland man. Fate played its
cruellest trick on her when her only son was
killed by savages in the Zulu War of 1879.
m circumstances that reflected no credit on
his British escort.
“T.Q.1.”: Australia’s oldest hatter has
just gone west, aged 93. He was William
Cochran, who traded under the sign of “The
Big Ha t,” i n
Market-street, Syd-
ney. In years
long dead Benjamin
Mountcastle had
shops in George and
Market streets, to
one of which Coch-
ran, his assistant,
succeeded. Mount-
castle was a cold-
water fanatic, and
everybody who
bought a hat from
him was presented
with a tract. The
pioneer hatter of
Sydney was Reuben
Uther, first in Mac-
quarie-place over
100 years ago, and
then in Pitt-street,
where the Imperial
Arcade now stands.
Maoriland's new
Judge SALMOND.
From a quarter-deck :
Jacky Fisher, who died last week, was one of
the greatest men the silent service has produced,
and easily its finest self-advertiser. As First Lord
(1904-10) he continually bumped against that other
Barmum of the R.N., Charles Beresford. In 1900
Fisher’s Dreadnought policy was introduced amidst
bellows of protest from the “Rag” and other old
service clubs, the chorus being led by Beresford,
who at the time commanded the Channel Fleet.
There were many technical objections to the
original Dreadnought—for instance, the 24 12-
pounders “for use against torpedo craft” were said
to be useless, since a 12-pounder was unlikely to
stop a destroyer. But the gravamen of the row
which raged right up to the great war was the
widely divergent temperaments of the protagonists.
To the Beresfords Fisher was an “outsider” and “a
damned mulatto”: to Fisher and his adherents the
Beresfords were asses. Fisher struck quickly'. In
the summer of 1908 the press published an attack
on Beresfortrs North Sea manoeuvres, the state-
ment being made amongst others that if one of
Lord Charles’s signals hadn’t been disobeyed a dis-
aster such as the one by which Admiral Tryon lost
his life and that of so many others, would have
occurred. A few months later Beresford learned
that his command had been reduced by a year, and
in the spring of 1909 his flag came down. No one
had any luck who assailed Fisher or his ideas
during his period of power. But it says much
for his wonderful freshness of mind and capacity
to assimilate new ideas and jettison old ones that
at 78 he was able to turn round and more or less
agree with what his enemies had said a decade
before. The originator of the capital ship died
its most eminent assailant.
Fisher loved kings and duchesses and the pageantry
of life generally, but he was a true democrat in
his attitude towards the R.N. ratings. He was
behind his friend and fellow-Ishmael Winston
Churchill in every move made by the latter to
raise the pay of the lower deck, increase the
power of the lower-deck societies, abolish the old
degrading punishments (such as “10 a.”), and im-
prove the prospects of lower-deck promotion. At
the finish he was understood to favor some system
under which all naval promotion should be from
the lower deck.
Like all men of his type, he was the subject cf
fantastic slanders. He met each fresh story with
disconcerting frankness. A man said he was finan-
cially corrupt. He brought to a dinner-party to
which his assailant had been invited his bank pass-
book and other documents, and handed them round
for the inspection of the interested guests. A
lady said that he was “supporting a woman in
open sin.” Fisher tapped her on the’shoulder at
a ball, and after recapitulating the allegation said
loudly: “Madame, it is nearly 20 years since I was
in a position to make love to a woman.” The
only malicious change that really annoyed him was
that of being a Eurasian. On his looks he was.
He had the beady eyes and dead-brown skin of a
half-caste, and in his latter days, especially when
seen in uniform by daylight, he looked anything
but an Anglo-Saxon.
Old John Craig, of Fremantle (W.A.).
who served witli the Scotch Fusiliers in the
Crimea, has been
enjoying himself in
the martial renais-
sance of the last
few years; and his
enjoyment reached
its zenith when he
saluted the Prince.
A.I.F. troops who
called at Fremantle
on their way to the
war remember the
old boy who. with
.his medals on his
breast and his grey
head bared, saluted
them as they passed
on the usual route-
march. Invariably
they gave him a
rousing cheer.
CAPT. TAYLOR,
of H.M.B. Renown.
The I.W.W. prisoners looked fit and well
when they made their appearance in Sydney
before Justice Ewing; and Donald Grant,
the orator among them, though alleged,
vvhen he went in, to be consumptive and
likely to get his freedom from Death after
a brief gaol experience, is visibly improved.
No doubt the splendid way in which their
friends have looked after them is partly
responsible. From the day they went to
gaol “the twelve” have been relieved from
anxiety about their dependants, who have
received a regular weekly allowance, for
which, and for other expenses, the 1.W.W.-
ers “put in” ungrudgingly; and the allow-
ances have been continued although the
I.W.W. is supposed (officially) to be at an
end. The I.W.W. can give the rest of the
community a lead in some things.
Arthur Otto Sachse, the doomed Chairman
of Committees of the Vic. Council, had an
innings of five years as Minister for Edu-
cation under Irvine and Bent. He had
hardly been sworn in when he made a
blunder that his colleagues never forgave.
Responding to a toast at a midnight banquet
at Nhill (Irvine’s constituency), in the
presence of all his colleagues, he said that,
like a drink whose name he could not recall
at the moment, the Ministry was composed
of different elements which, acting together,
were invigorating. “You mean a cocktail,”
suggested an interjector, who was not quite
so innocent as he looked. “Yes,” said
Sachse eagerly. After that it was the
Cocktail Government.
“Hop,” of The Bulletin, was 74 last
week, and looked forward to being able to
congratulate the youngsters of the staff on
reaching 74 too. Like the two candidates
for the U.S. Presidency, “Hop” was born
in Ohio. But, unlike them, he had the good
luck to discover Australia 37 years ago.
H. B. Gipps is another of the half-dozen
Australians who are entitled to wear the
plain green and the yellow-and-black ribbons,
one given to Aussies who re-enlisted in the
British Army after the Armistice, the other
for service in Russia. Gipps, who came
from N. S. Wales, was among the first
gunners to land in Gallipoli, and got his
commission in France. After the Armistice
. he ehlisted with the Fusiliers, was sent to
the north of Russia, and was with S. Pierce
when he won the last V.C. in the war—
Pierce was killed, by the way, in doing it.
Gipps’s reward for his part was a D.C.M.,
the Cross of St. George and the Order of
St. Anne —these last Russian decorations.
He got home in December last.
The only official left who served under the
old Imperial regime in the Speck, before
constitutional government, is James Honey,
still going strong in Hobart at two years
short of the century. He was born in Kent
in 1822, and was brought to Van Diemen's
Land in 1824. Altogether he put in 56
years in the Government service, old and
new.
John Shiels is about to resign the mana-
ger’s chair in the head office of the Bank of
Adelaide, after occupying it for over 30
years. Scott Young, the assistant-manager,
is getting to the veteran stage too, and
has not the best of health; so he will be
satisfied with being made superintendent,
while Wrcford, who lately went to Melbourne
to open a branch there, returns'to Adelaide
as manager.
Kenneth Henderson, chaplain of St. Peter’s
College, Adelaide, has won the Dublin prize
with his “Khaki and Cassock.” It is the
gift of Trinity College for the most original
contribution by any graduate to art or litera-
ture during the year.
J. E. Mackey, Speaker of Victorian As-
sembly, is the only member of that body who
possesses a Melbourne Uni. degree—a fact
of some interest in view of the scores, if not
hundreds, of graduates that the institution
turns out each year. Donald Mackinnon
wears letters after his name, but he is an
Oxford man. Premier Lawson is a quali-
fied solicitor, but took the articled clerks’
course, which doesn’t require a University
tag. To get a seat in Vic. State House it
is advisable to give Law and Letters a wide
berth, and to find out as much as possible
about silos, turnips, the cost of living and
the gentle art of making promises. Nor
should a knowledge of the ways and personnel
of pre-selection committees be despised.
Mackey represents the bucolics of East
Gippsland, and last time was returned un-
opposed. He had ingratiated himself with
the cow-punchers of the locality before they
had any reason to suspect him of the legal
knowledge of which he is guilty.
Olaf Linck, who reached Melbourne by
the Afrika a few days ago, is joint'editor of
a Copenhagen paper called the Berlingske
Tidende —whicli has nothing to do with
Berlin and implies no truck with that place.
The Danish gentleman is slight and dark-
haired and 46, with a quiet, deliberate style
—the deliberation being explained by the
fact that he is talking English. Like most
foreigners who have been about the world,
he talks it very well. Copenhagen, with
about two-thirds of the population of Mel-
bourne, has 12 daily papers—all except one
published in Danish. Linck’s own sheet
comes out with three editions a day. “But
not so large as your Melbourne papers,” he
says. He didn’t say whether it is as heavy.
Ex-Senator James Guy (Tas.) is sick of
a malady that medical science can do
nothing to cure. A companion in misfor-
tune is ex-Senator Albert Blakey (Vic.),
who, since his defeat in 1917, has been
accountant for the Hobart World. He has
undergone two serious operations, and is
now mending gradually.
Peck, D. 5.0., the man who pulled the
Prince out of his overturned railway-car in
Westralia, is never far away from trouble.
A captain in the permanent forces, he made
a name for himself on Gallipoli as a cool
and resourceful officer, and afterwards in
France and Flanders he did brilliant work
with the Fifth Division. Returning from
the war a colonel, he was temporarily ap-
pointed W.A. Commandant, and when the
feathers-and-pipeclay crowd sought to shift
him from that position ou the ground that
they didn’t recognise field-rank, and that a
mere A.I.F. colonel couldn’t be a command-
ant, the Diggers took up his cause and looked
so distinctly unpleasant that the feeble
Pearce promised to think it over. But that was
before the elections, and the feathers-and-
pipeclay interest has since talked Pearce
over, as it always does. Another man is
District Commandant, and Peck is looking
for a new shop, filling in time meanwhile
as State-Marshal to the Prince. There are
many cases like Peck’s, but there is only
one Pearce, and Feathers-and-Pipeclay is his
prophet.
Two gladsome marriage notices, Fuller—
Joy and Fuller —Beere, lately brightened up
the stodgy Adelaide dailies.
Like his Republican opponent, the Demo-
cratic candidate for President Wilson’s billet
comes from Ohio, is a newspaper publisher
by profession, and oegan his working life in
the composing-room. In fact, the only
material difference between the two men is
that one is named Harding and the other
Cox.
It was like the re-appearance of a small
and forgotten ghost to read the other day
that the re-
spected Profes-
sor Tucker, r of
Melbourne Uni.,
had been made
a Companion of
St. Michael and
St. George.
Considering the
advanced state
o f decomposi-
tion these two
gentlemen must
be in, they
can’t b e very
cheerful society.
Amid the rush
of war decora-
tions most folk
ha d forgotten
that anybody
ever kept com-
pa n y wit h
Michael and
George.
FRED
FLOWERS ,
President of the
N.S.W. Leg.
Council.
You can’t tell a sausage by the name on
the wrapper. Geelong (Vic.) returned sol-
diers started a llun-hunt over the erection
of a municipal open-air market. Successful
tenderers were Denno and Nuenhoffer, and
the local R.S.L. bore down upon the borough
fathers with cries of “Pro-Germans,’’ and
made cruel reflections upon the sincerity of
the loyal mottoes which adorned the Council
Chamber. Then Denno and Nuenhoft’er
came through the smoke-haze to prove that
they and their dads were all Austra-
lian-born, and that one grandpa was a Hol-
lander and the other, like Foch, an Alsatian.
Then, to make the Ilun-hunters more uncom-
fortable still, they dropped in the informa-
tion that the R.S.L. had employ'ed them to
fit up the Soldiers’ Club itself.
Actually they and their jobs were severed
seven months ago, but for salary purposes
Bevan is still Judge of the Northern Terri-
tory, and Carey Director, each at the decent
living wage of £lOOO per annum.
After waiting for it for 10 years or more
Dr. E. Robertson has got the job of Chief
Health Officer of Vic., at £lOOO a year. He
is also chairman of the new Health Com-
mission, without extra pay.
Jock Troup, who was Cocky’s unsuccess-
ful banner-bearer in the Ballarat election,
is a member of a Scotchbyterian family
that has farmed and grown fat at Cog-
hill’s Creek. Jock is an ex-Councillor, and
next to kirk-going makes trotting his diver-
sion. He has won substantial success on
the courses. Alto Chimes, an animal bred
by him, won the Richmond Thousand a
while ago.
Cliff Penny, whose righteous outburst in a
Sydney police-court the other day attracted
attention, came from the crow-eating State,
though Groperland was his home for years.
His master in the emotional sort of eloquence
that he affects was ex-Senator Ned Harney,
who quitted a £5OOO-a-year practice when he
went to London, where he has recently taken
silk. Penny has a talent for amateur
theatricals, and used to be an oarsman of
parts. He represented the West in one of
the inter-State contests.
The S. Aus. Agricultural College at Rose-
worthy has found in new Governor Weigall
the heartiest supporter and most competent
critic Gov’ment blouse has yet supplied. On
his first visit he looked into everything with
the eye of an expert, and finally allowed
that in some respects—the laboratory in
particular—it beats the college at Ciren-
cester, where he was a student. In one
item, wine-growing, Roseworthy could, of
course, show the Englishman something en-
tirely novel, and the wine-making industry,
very strong locally, believes that it has
gained a new and’ valuable supporter.
Though the veteran “Plevna” Ryan was
the lead-swinger’s worst enemy in Blighty,
Dr. McWhae, of Westralia, ran him close.
McWhae was short of an eye (he lost
it in the Landing), but he had an uncanny
knack of attacking the trench-dodger at his
weakest point. Once, however, the doctor
seemed to have met his match. He struck a
chap who was cool and crafty and knew every
trick of the trade. His stunt was deafness,
and he was ready for all the known tests
and resourceful enough to defeat others in-
vented at the moment. Having exhausted
his armory of artifices the doctor, who felt
sure the man was a lead-swinger, reluctantly
let him go. Into the street he went, and
behind his impassive chiv surged wild ela-
tion ; but as he was passing the surgery
window McWhae had an inspiration and
tapped at the pane. The deaf ’un looked
around. When he collected his scattered
senses he was listening to pip-squeaks in
France.
WOMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘Bewildering paradox!” A creature blent
If each conflicting sense and sentiment.
Temptation and Reward! A tiger-dove
That charms men to the hell and heaven of love.
Mistress is she of overwhelming bliss;
And fools would swamp their honor in a kiss.
But yet, as is her way, t" invert the rule
She often yields her honor to a fool.
To twenty lovers are her gifts denied ;
Laid free to him who casts them oft aside.
Like red wine to our blood when she is fair ;
The only joy in life men will not share.
With Beauty to inspire, where poets throng,
And not the Brain to comprehend the song.
He who has sought and won her dimly knows
Desire is poetry, possession prose.
He who can sneer at her, sunk in her hell,
Must likewise sneer at his own sex as well.
Whose heart is kind to her, in spite of all.
Has Heaven awaiting, at the final call.
Dread blessing and sweet curse! All that we know
I s nothing soars so high, nor sinks so low 1
VICTORIA.
R. X. JACKSON.


WINDED!


Smc?
“WARRIGAL” Underwear
—THE WARMTH OF PURE WOOL
Peapes’ “Warrigal” Underwear is made from the pure wool of
Australian sheep. It is wholly a product of Australia —every process
of its manufacture is Australian. It is warm, reliable, unshrinkable
—good underwear that will protect the body. It is considerably
lower in price than imported lines of similar quality.
Winter-Weight Pure Wool Underwear—
Shirts, -1-sleeves:
Black Cashmere Half-hose. British make, 7/6 pair, 43/6 half doz.
PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size required.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
\Aeltonian
I▼ 1 HIGH-CLASS
[[specialties
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. DROWN (§> SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL * OVER • THE • WORLD
-.77
...
■m
•m
First thing in the morning
—for health and beautv—a glass of
bubbling SAL HEPATICA.
A Saline preparation with medicinal
properties similar to the celebrated Bitter
Waters of Europe.
%/-, 4/-. AH Chemists.
SAL HEPATICA
Society
PENEOLD’S
WINES
“G.N.G.” : Our battalion was doing a long
forced march to stiffen the wandering Wood-
bines at Amiens in 1918. Loaded almost to
the ground with iron-rations and all sorts
of the ironmongery of battle, we were pass-
ing a demented lot of ’Bines resting by the
roadside. “Where yer goin’. ehoom?” queried
one of the Tommies. “At the knees!”
said a fed-up Digger.
“Splinter”: He figured on his attestation
papers as 35, but when I saw him cleaning
up the horse-lines of the 2nd L.H. at Heli-
opolis he looked GO if a day, with his lined
face and crop of iron-grey hair. Before the
camp court on a charge of three days’ a.w.l.
in Cairo, he was treated with fatherly con-
cern by the presiding officer, pipped and
cleaned, aged 20 or thereabouts. .“Well, my
man, what have you to say for yourself?”
asked the baby officer after the charge had
been laid. The. old chap stroked his grey
hairs and grinned. “Well, you know, sir,
boys will be boys,” he ventured confidenti-
ally.
EVEN HER
CORNS ACHED
FOR HIM.
H.R.H.: “Em afraid I trod on your foot —
Fin awfully sorry.”
INEZ : “Oh, it’s all right. Pleas' tread on
the other one — it’s so jealous!”
“Ex-Dig.-”: The identity disc has scat-
tered the mist that enveloped the fate of a
bunch of Anzacs hitherto posted as missing.
Their bodies, bearing the discs which pro-
claimed who and what they were, were
found in a well-kept cemetery, previously
supposed to be purely Turkish, 300 yards
east of Lone Pine. The little bit of tin,
which towards the end of the war became a
bit of composition (it was found that the
tin if struck by a bullet or shell-piece and
driven into the body caused a ghastly
wound), was amazingly useful; and yet it
has sometimes failed to tell the history of
its owner to the finder of his shattered re-
mains. Cases have occurred in which the
shell-burst that caused death also obliterated
the identity disc. Near Strazeele we came*
upon a body which had three discs. A
couple of hundred yards further on there
were two more bodies, wearing the same
unit marks. but without any discs.
Apparently the other man had taken the
discs to report the casualties and had been
killed himself.
* * * *
Victoria will now probably decide that |ts
fortress of Pen fridge is no Bastille or
Chateau d’lf. When a. suspicion arose of an
intended escape and the big “jug” rubbed
its eyes and went on a search, it found that
sundry hardened characters were provided
with revolvers, crowbars, saws, copper wire,
fuse, dynamite, ropes, masks and suits of
plain clothes which they had made for them-
selves in the gaol workshop when the
warders weren’t looking. Rumor says that
they also had a private foundry and a steam
crane and a motor-car, but that the fact
has been suppressed for fear of making the
gaol look ridiculous. Some gaols are easily
made to look ridiculous. A point of interest
is that one brilliant prisoner had removed
the official bolt from outside his door and
replaced it with a contrivance which gave
him free exit; wherefore he might on the
night of escape have given things a
finish by releasing the 130 hard-eases in his
wing. Whether he would have proclaimed
a republic with their aid or taken them out
and looted Melbourne no one knows, but in
a home of comedy like Pentridge much is
possible.
* * * #
“Earmarks”: Whatever be the faults of
the Vic, Government, reckless generosity to
its servants is not always one of them. As
a result of years of work
and worry, W. A. N.
Robertson, chief veterinary
officer, has worked out an
ingenious system of ear-
marks and brands. It is a
numerical system in which
the numbers are represented
by certain symbols. The
thing is easy to understand,
nearly fool-proof, and as
long as not more than
5,000,000 stock-
owners want to use it
each of them can be.
given a different
brand. The State
Ministry has thought
it good enough to
adopt in its new Stock
Marking Bill. And
a s Robertson had
spent £25 in
patenting it, there is a spendthrift pro-
posal to give him that much as a reward, so
that all he will lose by inventing the thing
will be his'time and grey matter. Even the
Vic. cockies’ convention was shocked at the
idea, and urged that the inventor ought to
be given 5 per cent, of the registration fees
for 10 years, which would mean a few hun-
dred pounds, anyway.
■* ' * * *
From a table at Darlinghurst—
On the seat where the great Griffith so often sat
is a stocky figure with close-cropped grey hair, a
suave voice, deprecatory hands, and an odd habit
of changing spectacles seven times every five
minutes. It is Ewing, the Tasmanian Judge, who
dealt with Gilruth, Bevan and Co., and has now
been borrowed by John Storey from Premier Lee
to pry into the conviction of the I.WAV. bunch.
Confronting him at the barristers’ table: Flannery,
to “assist,” for the Crown; Brissenden, for the
forlorn Twelve, ceremonitously counted in every
morning by half a dozen warders. Flannery, one
of the new “silks,” has about a couple of dray-
loads of, exhibits, and varies the monotony occasion-
ally by telling s’Honor how t:• get access to a
desired barrow-load. Plainly the character of some
of the Crown witnesses rests heavily on Flannery’s
soul. He is not accustomed to the atmosphere of
criminal jurisdiction. Since he left off being Bar-
ton’s secretary in the long ago and went to the
Bar, most of his practice has been on the common-
law side in civil procedure. He is a comfortable,
bqnevolent-looking specimen of the Costs brigade.
Lamb, who prosecuted at the trial, was all acid.
Flannery relies on sweet reason in all things. Bris-
senden, K.C., a Digger-sergeant with a monocle, is
his antithesis. Tall, heavily built and owning the
countenance of a pug, he frowns fiercely at the
Commission and tempers rude questionings with the
frequent joke. But at these proceedings the star
performers are two of the three principal witnesses
for the prosecution, recalled to let Ewing have a
look at them—Scully, the chemist, who alleges that
he gave demonstrations in the making- of fire dope:
and Louis Goldstein, a Russo-British tailor, who
was tangled up for a time in the Commonwealth
note-forgery eases, and after the I.W.W. trials
secured suits of clothes at cheap rates from another
clothes-merchant for numerous John Hops. Scully
is a wonderfully good witness; plausible, careful
and crafty, he never answers in a hurry, and
ONE MAN'S MEAT IS ANOTHER MAN’S POISON.
"There is more distress in Sydney than after the 1917 strike. Some families -haven’t a rag to
their back?"
where there is need to get back on his tracks he
docs it with great dexterity. On his own admis-
sion he has lied in connection with the business
hard and frequently. Street, the N. S. Wales Judge
who originally inquired into the conviction of the
Twelve, used some blistering language about Scully.
And Ewing? Well, he views Scully with an eye
more than critical. Goldstein, a podgy little chap
with a slow-working brain and a tongue disposed
to volubility, cuts a poor figure. He has none of
BRAVING THE STORM (BY PROXY).
Scully’s adroitness. Scully, apparently cornered,
can always explain. • Goldstein gets quickly flus-
tered and then “cannot remember” or “cannot
say.’’. His brother Davis had fled before the inquiry
started. “Can you make any distinction between
Scully and either of the Goldsteins as perjurers
and liars?” asks Ewing of a police-officer. “None,”
cheerfully answers the Hop, and Ewing solemnly
nods, and the moving pen drives on. The inter-
locutory proceedings lasted 12 days. This week
Counsel started harangues for and against the
righteousness of the conviction and sentences. -The
probable 'result of it all? Hush! It isn’t lawful
to guess in print, but the betting round the grey
old courts is all one way—or would be if there
were any takers.
* ■* * *
“Marcow”: Petershafen, a typical Steven-
son’s coral island, lies about midway between
Rabaul and the mainland of New Guinea.
The honor of its capture lies with the 8.-P.
steamer Matunga, afterwards sunk by the
Wolf. We were agog the day we steamed
into the beautiful little harbor, for the Ger-
man ensign was flying over the principal
building. An official-looking Hun put off in
a whale-boat manned by half a dozen
brawny Papuans. On being asked why thflt
flag was flying, he replied in pidgin Eng-
lish: “Ship he come, we happy.” He was
greatly astonished, and eager for news when
told there was a war on. Our combatant
force consisted of a naval engineer-lieutenant
and a couple of Diggers returning to Wil-
helmshafen after a spell of C.B. at Rabaul.
The navy took charge of affairs, and sternly
ordered Fritz ashore to round up all the
Huns on the island and bring aboard the
flag. The colors were received aboard with
due ceremony, the two Diggers lining up in
a great state of undress (one had only a
pair of pants and a singlet on, besides his
equipment) and presented arms in tra-
ditional style. The round-up totalled about
a dozen men and women. These were shep-
herded into the saloon, where in a fine
speech (only one or two of the Huns under-
stood a word) the Royal Australian Navy
informed them that by right of conquest the
island \yas now British territory, and that
if tliey wished to remain they would have
to take the oath of allegiance to Britain.
This they did with only a few. shrugs of
shoulders, expressive of unything-for-a-quiet-
life. After the issue of passports, fever-
ishly written by the wireless operator, the
whole crowd adjourned to the smoke-room
to drink success to anybody you liked in
8.-P.’s best champagne. Feeling very
pleased with ourselves, we cleared the reef
again for Wiltielmshaven and found, to our
loyal indighation, that the Huns still had
an ensign flying on a. house just round the
point. The navy immediately wanted to
put about, and longed for a six-inch gun or
a whiz-bang or something to blow the place
to blazes, but out Scotch skipper, thinking
of his coal account, decided it didna matter
what flag they flew so long as we’d cap-
tured the place.
* # * •
“0.K.” disinters a money-spinner:—
Though Monahan’s Buildings, in the heart of Mel-
bourne city, were sold last week for as much as
£130,500, few people at the sale seemed ever to
have heard of Monahan. The old skinflint’s name
remained attached to the building, but the fame
of his money-getting has faded in the 31 years since
he was gathered to his fathers. Tommy Monahan
and Micky Dawson were rival Irish capitalists in
their day. Fitzgibbon, the historic Town Clerk of
Melbourne, married Dawson’s daughter, whilst the
late John Wallace married the heiress daughter of
Monahan and became a humorously autocratic trustee
of his sons’ inheritance.' Had old Tommy known
how his estate was serving for all sorts of mining
speculations his bones would have rattled. Tommy
loved money. He worshipped nothing else. Even
Holy Church failed to reach his heart. AVhen St.
Pat’s spirelefis Cathedral was being built in the days
of Archbishop Goold, his Grace grieved to notice
that some of the richest members of the R.C. per-
suasion had subscribed nothing worth mentioning.
So he spoke to the priests of the parish that num-
bered Monahan among the faithful and asked them
the reason of the rich man’s backwardness. It was
explained to his Grace that Tommy was a hard nut
to crack—a very citadel of stinginess, incapable
of capture except on, perhaps, its convivial side.
The Archbish. suggested a dinner to Tommy, and
Father Quirk thought that that might do the trick if
his Grace would honor them with his presence. A
beautiful little feed was the result of the con-
ference, and when the local clergy reckoned that
the millionaire had taken in the proper quantity
of old port the subject of the Cathedral was softly
broached. The Archbishop spoke of the everlasting
honor the man would do himself who associated
his name with a cathedral spire—and Monahan
listened attentively. Then they filled his glass
again and resumed the attack. At last the be-
leaguered guest asked —“How much d’ye want?” The
ministers of the church exchanged glances before the
Archbish. replied that £lO,OOO would be a hand-
some donation. Monahan banged his fist on the
table, and said “I’ll let you have it.” All the holy
fathers breathed heavily. Father Quirk looked at
his Grace with a “You’ve-done-it” expression in
his eye. “Yes, I’ll let you have it,” repeated
Monahan. Smiling on the leg-pulled company he
added—“at 5 per cent.” >
* * * *
Problem for anti-smokers: If cigars were
abolished what could princes do to show
their calmness in railway accidents and
other crises? Tobacco is a valuable theatri-
cal “prop.” Had Charles I. been beheaded
with a big cheroot in his mouth, having
first tipped off the ash against Cromwell, it
would have advertised the dynasty wonder-
fully.
(Continued on page 18.)
WINTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The day is mellow
And golden-yellow
As ripening fruit.
Sharp on his flute.
Yet sweet and clear
Blew June of the year.
Sleep has the lizard under his coat,
But the peewit soars with joy in his throat,
For smouldering summer is gone, is gone!
Tlie wattle has put her aureole on.
The trees toss satin-green leaves on high
Under the arch of a sapphire skv.
Some, there are for winter know
Snow and sleet, sleet and snow ;
Creeping days as grey as death,
Colder than a ghost-wind’s breath,
And dolorous ways of haggard trees!
Oh, weep for these,
Who have not seen’
Autumn saplings pink and green,
And winter as a laughing fellow
In broidered cloak of blue and yellow !
N’.S.W.
NINA MURDOCH.


u
a
m
II
I.imyf!
r
-A
0
4
w
%
i
118
FATHER had promised us an unusual
present this year and he always
keeps his word. His gift to the
r family is to be a beautiful AEOLIAN-VOCALION. He
could not keep the joyous news until the happy day. So
pleased was he with his'purchase he just had to let the “cat
out of the bag.” So we are to have our VOCALION sent
out immediately and good music will be ours in plenty for
the holiday season and thereafter. He said there was no doubt
in his mind in choosing the VOCALION. Its superiority
over other instruments was at once apparent.
'That is just one of the thousands of instances of
the famous AEOLIAN-VOCALION bringing
happiness and pleasure into the home. Music,
that mysterious substance of sound melody, is
truly, as the poet said, “the language of the
soul.” It is a sort of celestial melting pot in
which our souls assemble and are refined, the
dross eliminated, and we are permitted to hear
momentarily, the pure metallic ring of our spirit.
No mortal can justly describe it, but in the
perfect musical expression of the marvellous
AEOLIAN-VOCALION it is possible for all to
FEEL and enjoy it.
,7-
m
m
DANCING,
Songs, Recitations, Musical Instrument
Playing—ideal entertainment and a glori-
ously happy time is assured when
VOCALION is the chosen present—The
only phonograph with the ingenious
Graduola Tone-controlling Device.
Xv
HIM
e 'o^'
VOCALION CATALOG COUPON
Name ...
Address
The Pianola Company Pty. Ltd.
“Aeolian” Registered Trade Mark
“The Centre for the World’s Greatest Achievements in Musical Instruments.”
384 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
And at— 252 Collifiß Street, Melbourne
436 Queen Street, Brisbane Corner Rundle Street and Gawler Place, Adelaide


**«<sr*l \
MELBOURNE:
It Pays to Qualify
Otherwise—why did 4000 candidates pre-
sent themselves for Accountancy Examina-
tions last year? These men know what the
qualification will do for them. You cannot
afford to stand aside.
80-PAQE FREE BOOK.
Write or call at nearest address. Enquiry
costs nothing. Read the book and see
exactly what ‘‘qualification” means to YOU.
Hemingway U Robertson,
The Accountancy Specialists,
SYDNEY; AUCKLAND:
Aberdeen House, London Bank Chambers. Union Buildings,
528 Collins Street. Moore Street. Custom Street.
“FIRST IN ISB7—FOREMOST EVER SINCE.”
12
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
have brewed a
Special Stoat
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management Host
Usher, the Comforts uf a Perfect
Home are assured. , The Cuisine
and Service will co/mpare favor-
ably with any Hotfei in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Imye in most o 1 Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
“Fax”: John Wren, disputing a “Wren
banquet” account with his caterer, professed
to be specially indignant because the caterer
complained that £5O worth of plant had been
pinched. But the caterer’s complaint about
the peculation of spoons, knives and forks,
not to memtion tumblers and plates, is gen-
eral and not confined to the kingdom of
Wren. At all functions there is much pil-
fering of hardware and things, but where
the caterer’s profits are most heavily dis-
counted is on the Yarra bank at Henley
Regatta, day and night. Women are said
to be the most conscienceless thieves; but
they are not the only ones. Lately a floor-
manager at a restaurant, going home by a
late tram after a spree among Old Boys of
a public school, saw two youths produce
their “souvenirs.” There were a dozen of
them. One way and another the caterer is
having his full share of worries. Tea-room
cups, for example, used to cost about sd.
and were sold at that by the thousand ; of
mostly-Jap manufacture they are now Is.
Bid., and their life is reckoned to be less
than one-fourth of that of the old articles —
an increase in costs, in one important line,
of about 1500 p.c.! Incidentally, the same
week that Wren and his caterer came to
court a caterer’s furnisher sued Mrs. Barry
Lupino for the hire of certain table appoint-
ments plus £l6 on account of appointments
that disappeared whilst on hire. The claim
was not disputed. The goods had been re-
quired to grace Barry Lupino’s birthday
dinner-party, “and guests on their departure
were so jovial that they took away a large
number of articles as souvenirs of the
occasion.”
DOING HIS BEST.
DABSABIT : “Do you think Brown Madder a
clever painter?”
DAUBER ( emphatically ): “No, I do not!”
DABSABIT : “He thinks a lot of your work.”
DAUBER : “Oh, you know Madder may not
he a painter, hut lie's a slashing good
critic.”
“Snips”: Australia was settled in the
days when knee-breeches and stockings still
held sway, except amongst seamen and one
or two other classes who had already taken,
to trousers. Maybe it was because the early
Governors, up to the coming of Macquarie
in ISIO, were all sailors that trousers were
popular in Australia from the jump, so that
the sight of a man in “shorts” makes the
public stare even to this day. Governor
Hunter, in a despatch to Under-Sec. King
dated June 20. 1797, has the following
fashion note: “Permit me, sir, to propose a
CAUGHT!
“You worm!”
“You early bird!”
change in the article of breeches and stock-
ings for the men, and instead of them to
substitute either blue or brown long woollen
trousers,. which are far more convenient
and comfortable to the people and far more
desired by them. Such a pair of trousers
answers the purpose of breeches and stock-
ings together, so that very few of the latter
would be necessary, and none of the former.’’
In answer to this appeal the Duke of Port-
land in 1798 sent out by the Porpoise 5000
pairs of trousers; and that settled the
fashion definitely.
* * * *
“Gordon G.” : A usually-doleful Victorian
P.M. did this spontaneously a few days ago.
(He had just fined a fellow a fiver for steal-
ing an Orpington rooster, and the bird-
exhibit was still enclosed in a box at the
rear of the court-room while the next case
was proceeding.) Witness: “It’s no good,
y’r Worship, I can’t remember.” Cock: “A
doodle-do, a doodle-do.” P.M.: “You remem-
ber St. Peter, witness?”
“Sealing Wax”: When the Prince “re-
ceived” all and sundry at Sydney Town Hall
he was as polite as possible to all the queer
birds who came along; and this has had
diverting consequences. A few days later a
lady who had been
denied, for good and
sufficient reasons, a
gift of furniture by
the Repat., fortified
herself with wine and
swooped down upon
that institution with
the announcement that
the Prince had assured
her she was entitled to
the sticks, and de-
manded to be informed
whether the officials
thought that they
knew more about the
business than H.R.H.
About the same time
a dame who has been
a persistent caller at
the Department of
Justice for years was
waving her dilapidated
gamp in that building
and informing it that
the Prince himself was
convinced of the jus-
tice of her case, and
intended to see her
righted (her case is
that she has been
robbed of her inherit-
ance — i.e., half of Sydney). And doubtless
there have been similar instances.
“Silas”: All the quaint specimens drawn
to town by the Pi'ince’s visit have not left
us yet. It must have been one of the most
ingenuous who was taking dinner with his
missus the other evening in the restaurant
I favor when I am doing myself particu-
larly well. He sat at the table opposite us,
and I noticed him drawing his wife's
attention to a waiter who came in from an
adjoining room several times, searched . the
tables for an item he required, seized it,
and departed. On the occasion of about
his seventh invasion the waiter went to the
board at which Beau Colic was seated,
looked it over, and grabbed a bottle of fish
sauce. Instantly the man from Toodlem-
buc-k was upon him. “No you don’t, covey!
No you don’t!” cried Haywhiskers. “I bin
watchin’ you.” Then hddressing our waiter:
“Hey, mister, that [pointing to the bottle]
is the seventh thing he’s pinched this
evening.”
The Tasmanian Hospital trouble is the
worm that never dies. Within the last
week or two it has taken another turn.
When the refusal of the Government to
accede to the honoraries’ terms resulted in
a call-out of the members of the B.M.A.—
practically a declaration that the hospitals
were “black”—Dr. V. Ratten, a local saw-
bones operating under an American dip-
loma, took on the job of house-surgeon and
pulled the Lee Government and many help-
less patients out of a dangerous difficulty.
The doctors’ union regarded Ratten as a
breakawayster and a person of no class, and
inquiring noses were poked into the ques-
tion of his diploma. The sniffing grew
so pronounced that Judge Ewing was
given a Commission to investigate. After
spending considerable State cash he de-
clared himself satisfied that Ratten’s diploma
had been well and truly issued by the Harvey
Medical College, and ’s Honor could dis-
cern no flyspecks on the document. This was
legarded as a sort of knock-out for the medi-
cal strikers, and Ratten was permitted to
pursue his brilliant hospital career in peace.
La « t r r^P^ rliamen ! : P assed an Act setting up
a Medical Council with well-defined powers
to supersede the old diploma-controlling
authority; and the B.M.A. doctors have
now persuaded the new Medical Council
(also B.M.A.’s) that sufficient fresh evi-
dence can be found to justify further inquiry.
J-he Medical Council has informed Premier
Lee to that effect; so the Ratten diploma
is to be hoisted on the dissecting table once
more, with the Supreme Court Judges in
charge of the operation. The State will, of
course, pay the Medical Council’s expenses;
and if Ratten wins Parliament will be asked
to authorise payment of his little lot, too.
* * * *
From “Dido’s” domestic memoirs:—
The great drawback to life in a flat is the pro-
pinquity with persons of uncongenial tastes or awk-
ward propensities. For instance, the flat across the
passage at Babylon was occupied by a man named
Johns, who had a wife and a grand piano and con-
siderable furnishings. Johns’s peculiarity was nightly
card-parties softened with whisky, sometimes at his
rooms, sometimes abroad. If at his rooms the result-
ting arguments and the subsequent falling down
stairs by the guests made our evenings at home un-
bearable. If Johns went abroad to play he came
home when the rest of the world was steeped in
slumber and fell upstairs. On reaching the landing,
if by any chance he got himself turned round he
inevitably mistook our door for his own, and when I
went to explain he accused me of nameless in-
famies and I had to throw him into his own apart-
ments to be rid of him. My wife and I and the cat
were equally delighted, therefore, when the Johns
couple loaded three vans full of furniture out of
their small flat and went to live elsewhere* But
on the night following, who should come tumbling
up the stairs in the old familiar way but Mr.
Johns, fuddled past all conception, and full of sor-
row! He made his way into the vacant flat, and
started a quarrel with his wife because she had
moved the piano. It was his practice to fall over
the piano, and he missed it. Then there were fiery
accusations and finally a resonant knock on our
door. I went out and found Johns standing in the
dim light, with scarcely anything on but his wrist-
let watch. “Say, ole f’l’r,” he said piteously, “like
a goo’ chap len’s a box o’ matches. The missus
won’ take any notish of me, and dam’ ’fi can fin’
my pyjamas.”
“Ex-Dig,,” : His name doesn’t matter, but
he deserted from the Australian Navy to
join the A.I.F. Then he deserted from the
A.I.F. to join the British Navy. ‘He quitted
that job and enlisted in a Tommy regi-
ment, and next he became a prisoner of war.
When released he declared himself an A.I.F.
soldier, and applied for immediate return to
Australia; then he changed his mind and
asked for a training course in England; then
he again solicited repatriation to the Com-
monwealth, and after that he demanded his
discharge in England. Weary of his change-
ableness, the authorities shipped him back to
Aussie* and straightway they struck trouble
again. He first refused vocational training;
then he applied to be tutored as a motor
mechanic; then he decided that he was unfit
for work owing to war injuries; and when
the doctors disagreed he expressed a desire
to learn the furniture-making. But before
the furniture trade got a new recruit he
broke in with an application for land; and
then, having run out of his time, he was cal-
lously denied sustenance. Having finally
been provided, at his burning request, with
a job on a dairy farm, he returned to Syd-
ney and got work on the wharves—seemingly
to assert his inalienable right to change his
mind. That is his official history; but he
confided to me, as 1 ran through his papers,
that he was actually twice a prisoner with
the Germans. He had allowed himself to be
captured the first time because he was “fed
up” with the conditions in the line; but
before he was sent back to a prison camp he
changed his mind and escaped.
* * * #
“Sixenate” : The sort of man who seethes
with hostility to royalty is more ridiculous
in some aspects than the man who would
treasure a cigarette-butt trodden by the
Princely heel. I met one of them *at the
barber’s. His sentiments were certainly not
loyal, and thev included discolored oaths;
they were to the effect that he would bend
his neck to no man, and that if he met the
Prince he would not even shake hands with
him. And then in buzzed a man whom he
addressed reverentially as “Mr. Jones.” De-
spite his previous assurances about the un-
bendable straightness of his neck he was
extremely deferential to Mr. Jones; and
when Mr. Jones went out he said in an
awed whisper: “D’ye know who that is?
That’s Jones —the man who owns those four
new shops up the street!”.
#• * * *
“0.K.”: Having lived in Melbourne for
the past' year and many years before that,
I consider myself an authority on the ques-
tion, “What causes all these strikes?” They
are mostly produced and kept going by the
A REBUKE.
THE TONSORIAL ARTIST : “Most genthmen
’ad their ’air cut for the Prince's visit,
sir.”
daily press, I reckon. For weeks before a
key-industry strike occurs the press talks
about the awful stoppage of industry which
will occur if this, that or the other union
should persist in fighting the employers and
dragging other unions into the awful con-
flict. “Will Chaos Reign?” asks the Age,
Akgus and Herald. Then the names of
all the union secretaries and dispute-manipu-
lators are freely advertised as the person-
ages on jvhom the fate of Chaos depends,
and before the strike has actually com-
menced hundreds of workmen and their
swollen-headed leaders have been lashed into
a state of excitement by a series of para-
graphs and articles calculated to make even
the mildest-mannered unionist shake a stick
at the community’s head. And after the
trouble begins it’s “Will the Strike Extend?”
“Will the Miners be Involved?” “Will the
Men Persist in their Demands?” The busi-
ness of the daily press is to work up a topi-
cal subject to fever-heat and pour oil on
the troubled furnace.
WOMAN’S RIGHTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“During the banquet ladies filled the balconies.”
Proud woman, sitting up aloft,
While lords of high creation
Their oysters and their turkey scoffed,
How cared ye for your station ?
Ye were permitted to behold
The noblest of God’s creatures
With best that can be bought for gold,
From aspic to the manifold
Sweet dainties, stoke their features.
So in the day of simple truth
King Billy used to boss ’em,
And worried without show of ruth
His succulent roast ’possum,
While Mary, his devcted gin,
Sat patient and most humble,
And watched each tender morsel in,
And caught the bits of bone and skin
He found too tough to mumble.
Since man and wife as one unite
Man holds he is not cheating
When he, excused by social rite,
Elects to do the eating.
But dames find liberty a shred,
Equality a fable,
Permitted when they’re duly wed
To take by right one-half the bed,
But still denied the table.
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


Q
m
m
FM
SK
N
9^a
m
! i
H
m
m*
m
>
4
~=>
$3
\N
y
_j
;:v
m.
m
m
‘•O
‘X
w
HEN you buy your next suit, if it be an “Austral,” you
will be satisfied —quite satisfied. If it be another brand
you may not be satisfied.
There is no element of risk or doubt in an “Austral.” All the
features that make for satisfaction are there —Style, Fit, Work-
manship, Finish and Sound Value and Quality of Materials.
“AUSTRAL” SAC SUITS
Of Australian Tweeds and Worsteds
TO MEASURE,
95/-, 105/-, 115/-, £6/6/-, £6/15/-, £7/7/-, £B/8/- to £ll/11/-
ORDERS DELIVERED FREE IN CITY,
SUBURBS AND COUNTRY-
486490
GEORGE STREET,
GOWINQ 6R“ II?
3 to 17
ROYAL ARCADE,
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods }
Branch Store at 304 GEORGE STREET (near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
\


The
finest
Tobacco
obtainable is
READYRUBBff
EXTRA HIGH GRADE'
A Real
Skin
Soap
THE BEST
OF ITS
KIND.
LIGMOLLIENE
Cream Soap
Is truly Unequalled for cleansing and
removing Blemishes from the Skin.
Possesses the Curative Properties of
the Wonderful “LIGMOLLIENE” Skin
Cure. Yields a Rich, Abundant
Lather, and has a Delightful Fra-
grance. Unsurpassed for improving
the Complexion.
Price 1/- Caße
From W. H. MALYON & SON,
Chemists, Sturt Street,
Ballarat, Victoria.
A Signal Success
’•''Mil
The TOP-NOTCHScotch
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
THE DAY AFTER.
BED AND BREAKFAST: “Whasser time ,
porter?”
PORTER: “Six o'clock, sir.”
BED AND BREAKFAST: “Night or morning?”
“Dolphin”: Down near Sale (Vic.) there’s
a bit of a trade in swans’ eggs. The town nippers
get them from the nests on the lakes and sell them
to the pastrycooks. Besides being good for pastry
swans’ eggs make a capital omelette, without any
fishy taste. There is a law against taking the
eggs in Victoria, but the farmers along the Latrobe
River want it suspended for three years. They
allege that the birds do a lot of damage this time o’
year by pulling up the grass on the flats.
“B.II.”: “Belmont” (B. 10/6/’2O) says
he has seen a small saddle pony, “apparently with-
out much effort,” drag a dead bullock 250 yards out
of a bog with his tail connected to the horns of
the beast by a piece of rope. Stockmen resort to
this fashion when rescuing bogged animals, but- a
sheep or poddy calf is the limit. The carcase of
a bullock is the deadest pull that you can hitch a
horse on to, even with a collar and hames, and
takes as much strength to start and four -times as
much to keep moving as three tons of flour on
a lorry. “Belmont’s” saddle pony must have been
either an elephant or a tractor-engine.
« * * *
“Bushwife”: When I was last in Mel-
bourne, seeking an adequate domestic servant will-
ing to face the vicissitudes of the wilderness, I had
the luck to have Anne presented to me. She travelled
with me to Bil Bil per train, and then we coached
by night out to the homestead at liurrajong. This
latter is a somewhat tedious trip on top of a four-
hour train journey, along an uncertain track, through
a wilderness of gums. The night was cold, and we
were well closed in, but I noticed Anne flattening
her nose on the window every few miles, gazing
into the dense black desolation. At length she came
to her conclusion. “I see yer got the blessed gas
strike here, too!” said she. Anne had not a bril-
liant mind, but she arrived at a definite idea of
things eventually. After she had been in the house
two days she interviewed me. with the suspicious
air of one scenting deceit in a trusted friend.
“Where do you get the trams from here?” she
asked. 1 explained the lamentable scarcity of tram
systems in the bush. “Well, where do you go fer
the pickshers?” I pointed out that we enjoyed
complete immunity from picture-theatres at Kurra-
jong. Anne went away, and I next found her on
her knees by a large dress-basket. “No trams to
nowhere, no picksher theatres—l’m going back to
Australia!” she explained to me.
* * * *
Re “Mulga's” post-getter. J.
Barnes, the gun of Selwyn district (Q.), knocked
up 200-odd for seven consecutive days. There’s a
pot of shin-plasters ready to say he can put up a
like performance for a month. Posts siiv coolibah
and bloodwood. While felling a bloodwood for a
strainer the other day I found between the sap-wood
add the heart of a perfeetly-sound tree a cavity
containing five small, colorless frogs. The blade
settled two, and the other three died soon after
exposure to air. As I could find no entrance to
their "home, they’ve got me puzzled.
* * * *
“G.WS’: Mrs. Shadforth ' (B. 19/2/’2O)
was not the first white woman to do the overland
trip from Bananaland to the Northern Territory.
Mrs. Shepherd and her husband overlanded from
N. S. Wales to Hall’s Creek (W.A.) in 1880. On
their journey they passed through a lot of Queens-
land, and crossed the Territory from border to
border. Mrs. Beasley and Mrs. Shroeder did the
trip in 1888, followed by Mrs. Farrar and Mrs.
Costello in 1889. Joe Bridge brought his wife
and four children through in 1894, and Mrs. Deakin
came over in 1895. In 1896 a Frenchman and his
wife did the journey per boot!
* *' * *
“Nalla Dooli”: The most common cutting
implement used by the New Guinea natives was an
axe or adze-head, made generally from a stone
resembling diorite. It differed from the Australian
article in that the cutting edge was broader in
proportion to, the length, and the blade tapered to
the back. It was mounted and used as we use an
adze. I do not recollect seeing one mounted as an
axe. Then there was the adze-blade ground out
from a section of giant clam-shell, the natural
curve of the shell giving a good, bandy blade. The
axe Used for dismembering “long pig” was disc-
shaped. A hole bored through the centre took the
handle of cane. These axes varied in size, but the
most, common were ,about Sin. in diameter. The
form of the shell adze js apparently very ancient,
as I have seen specimens unearthed 25ft. below the
surface of a decomposed coral bank. Musan
Islanders used a long spiral shell with a base of
about lliii. This, when prepared for use, resembled
a gouge, but was mounted in the same way as the
stone adze. The tool was used for canoe making.
“S.C.McL.”: “FY7” blathers a lot about
bottle-trees containing water (B. 17/6/’2O). Now, I
have felled hundreds of them for starving stock, and
never found a drop of water inside any of them. I
know of only one bottle-tree to hold water, and
that it does in a cavity between two, limbs—l have
seen birds drinking at this pool six' weeks after
rain. The scrubs on the Peak Downs (C.Q.) are full
•of these beautiful trees ; Glencoe, in that district,
holds a monster with a girth of 21ft. As for Binghi
making shields of them, he might have done so, but
I’ll bet they were for presentation .purposes to his
. greatest , enemy. The timber is too soft, and a
Spear would go straight through it.
* * * *
,“D.F.”: A curious" feature of the Aus-
tralian fauna is the large proportion of its
members which have
adopted an upright posture.
The kangaroos,' the walla-
bies and a great variety of
small fry like the bandi-
coots and kartgaroo-rats
have practically ceased to
be quadrupeds, and habitu-
ally stand up and hop on
their hihd legs. These are
all terrestrial animals ; the
native-bear follows the
same tendency, but his case, as a tree-
climber, is somewhat different. It is
more natural for arboreal animals to
develop the grasping power of their fore-
limbs and stand on their hind legs, though
the ’possum may fairly be called quad-
rupedal, albeit a . confirmed tree-dweller.
But why have kangaroos and wallabies
and all their smaller allies taken to going
about on their hind legs? And why have animals
done it in Australia more than in any other land?
*• *' * *
“Gundaghi” : Drowsing before the fire
with a yellow cat on ray knee, I noticed a craek-
. ling, noise each time my hand stroked his back. I
thought of static electricity immediately, and to
prove it I stroked him vigorously a few times and
then held one finger close to the tip of his ear. A
spark jumped across, and I felt a distinct shock.
Turning the light down I again stroked puss vigor-
ously, and could clearly see sparks as my hand
passed over the fur. Anyone contemplating trying
the experiment had better file the cat’s claws first.
I didn’t.
"Bright”: During the floods along the
Murrumbidgee in 1916 countless thousands of gum-
suckers commenced to grow on the river fiats on
the Deepwater station. During the recent long
drought the station kept a good number of sheep
on the leaves of the suckers. Some do well on this
unusual tucker; others just exist. Some of the
UTILITY BIRDS.
“Oh, what lovely fowls! I wonder if we could get some cream?"
saplings have reached a height of 20ft., with a cir-
cumference of about JBin. The sheep have become
quite expert in getting at the leaves. Coming to
an eight- or nine-foot sucker, which would be about
an inch thick at the butt, they rear up on their
back, legs and bear the sucker down, walking'along
it and eating the leaves as they go. I had a roast
off one of these sheep in good, condition. It wasn’t
too bad, either, having only a slight taste of the
gum-tree.
* '* * *
“Monyali”: This is the way a snake com-
mitted suicide on the Burnett (Q ). The top hole
had run dry, and Bill and l went down the creek-
bed and dug another four or five feet deep. Not
striking water, we went back to our fencing, and
returning towards evening found still no water but
a black snake performing a jazz in the hole. We
pelted'-him with pebbles much too 'sin,all to injure
him; but they so greatly annoyed him that lie
put an end to our nature-study ,by deliberately
biting himself about the middle of hi? body. He
bit hard ' and deep, and after slowly withdrawing
his fangs took very little interest in Subsequent
proceedings, and was soon dead.
HELPFUL.
RACING MAGNATE: “Sam, I’ve been told I’m
about to die, so I’ve sent for you to
give you a present for being a straight
lad. And, of course, to say good-bye!
You’ll not see me again .— I’m going
on the long, long journey.”
SAM ( desperately anxious to say something
consoling): “Never mind, sir! Buck
up; it’s orl down ’ill.”
Advt. from the Croydon Mining News :
Public Notice.
I am giving a notice to any persons or person
caught removing any Vegetable OFF 11 mile garden
I will be prosecute. & I do not sell vegetable with-
out cash in the garden I want cash up before I
Deliverd any kind of vegetable so the parsons much
bring the cash —& now If I see any persones shaking
vegetable or moving vegetable at the gatden I will
be prosecute, if any persons come in this garden
gates they much shaut the gates up. If not I will
put the lock and key on the gates—& also I am
giving a notices I do not want any persons goats
come up here with my goats I have enough trouble
of them goats—so they much keep they goats way.
If they thing they goats come up here the persones
much come every once week time to see here in my
goats—& also I heard somebody tell the sargen a lie
about the goats.- they got the goats from 11 mile
garden I did not see any persons come near 11 mile
garden for goats. T heard from sargen Norma nton
he tell me about the. goats. Did you see any goats
your way so r said to sargen no goats up here —&
also I want von to put down on paper I repair
singer so machine and bike and water pump repair
& Clock repair. 1 do not repair broken watch. 1
repair only put watch hands and glass in watch. I
want cash up before 1 deliverd the watch and
clock & hike k machine & water pump.—lf any
persons want watch hands & clock hands & watch
glass I have in stock k 1 have small wristlet watch
hands and glass.—-Yours truly .T. MAN FOO 11 mile
garden Clarina. k also every persons owe me money
much pay mp at once. If not I will be prosecute.
I much have the money at once Order by J. Man
Foo.
* * *■ *
‘‘Mick the 'l'miehei'” : .There -was an excep-
tionally fine collection of- snake-fiats at our camp
one night. The wonders perforined by venomous
reptiles were only excelled by the exploits of their
hunters. “I wonder is it true,” said old Sill, “that
a death-adder has it wrote on the inside of-his skin
that if only he. wafcn’t- deaf he wouldn't leave a man
alive?” “O' course it is,” said Jim Tuft. “I skint
one once, and there it was in black and white.” Then
followed a solemn silence. Even those hardened
liars were awe-stricken by the homicidal tendencies
of the villainous crawler. At length the silence was
broken by old Bill’s 12-year-old son. “How was
it spelt, Jim?” asked the kid. “’Gw was wot
spelt?” growled Jim. “Deaf.” said the boy. “W’v,
d —e—double f, o’ course,” Jim answered scornfully.
“Centurion”: If “Peg-leg” (B. 24/6/’2O)
wants another emergency method of cooling bottled
drinks, this is less expensive than evaporating ben-
zine. Put three or four bottles in a large bucket;
throw in a pound of saltpetre and fill with water;
take the bottles by the necks and “swill” the mix-
ture round and round in the bucket for half a
minute. Then call for the corkscrew. I learned
that triple in Herbertshoe what time Queen Emma
was Empress.
‘‘Wessel”: Fish-figliting is a specialty of
the State of Ivelantan. The citizens also amuse
themselves with cock-fighting, but that’s a diversion
common enough. The other is unique. Two little
red' fish are put in a glass jar of water, ,and the
Kelantan Malays will spend hours on end watching
them knock scales off one another.' ;
(Continued on page 22:J
THE SIX ROADS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The six roads out of Wagga
Are dewy-wet with rain;
They wind away from Wagga
Like ribbons on the plain.
It’s just a night for joy-riding,
All the folks 'are car-riding,
Sulky-riding, horse-riding,
Out and back again.
The six roads out of Wagga—■
Which shall it be?
Narrandera, Urana-road
Or south to Albury?
The Rock-road, Tarcutta-road,
Or north to Coolamon?
There’s starlight in the river,
The thunder-clouds are gone.
The plain is spread in darkness,
And all the roads are bright
Where cars from town go singing down
With headlamps burning white....
But when I think of Wagga
I’ll be dreaming all the night
Of spinning wheels and ponies’ heels
And sulky lamps alight.
And when you’ve travelled many roads,
Will you look back again
To Wagga in the twilight—
Wagga on the plain?
Perhaps we’ll both remember
The rainstorm in December
And the six good roads ,at Wagga
That go out and back again!
N.S.W.
McENSAY.


THE "BOOKSTALL” SERIES
of Australian Books
Represents the Best Work of Australian Authors.
Write the Publishers for a Complete Catalogue of over 100 Australian
Novels, including the bert ot okl favorites and many recent successes.
“BOOKSTALL” NOVELS are the BEST VALUE ON THE STALLS
1/3 each—AH One Price-1/4* posted.
ADVENTURE STORIES:
By BEATRICE GRIMSR AW. By JACK MCLAREN.
“QUEEN VAITI.” “RED MOUNTAIN.”
“WHITE SAVAGE SIMON.” “SKIPPER OF THE ‘ROARING
MEG.’ ”
AUSTRALIAN HUMOR:
EDWARD DYSON’S GREAT NOVELS.
STEELE RUDD’S SELECTION STORIES.
THOS. E. SPENCER’S HUMOROUS BOOKS.
SPORTING:
“THE DOINGS OF DAVE,” “WOLAROI’S CUP,”
By CON DREW. By AMBROSE PRATT.
ARTHUR WRIGHT’S Popular Novels, of which
hundreds of thousands have already been sold.
“THE WHITE CHAMPION,” “THE MARE WITH THE
By DON DELANEY. SILVEI* HOOF,”
By 808 ALLEN.
ALSO OBTAINABLE FROM ALL BRANCHES AND BOOKSTALLS:
"A TWENTY-FIVE YEARS’ BATTLE."
By Hon. RICHARD DENIS MEAGHER,
ex-M.L.A., ex-Speaker of the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly, ex-Lord Mayor, etc., etc.
The full story of the sensational happenings which followed upon the famous Dean
case, and a complete record of the author’s fight to secure re-admission to practise in
the Courts.
Price 2/-; or 2/1* posted from “Bookstall” headquarters
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. Ltd.
476 George Street, SYDNEY.
NASAL CATARRH OVERCOME
and
Quickly
FEW diseases are more unpleasant and more dangerous than
Catarrh—which may briefly be described as a Chronic
Inflammation of the Membranous Linings of the Nose and
Throat, that by neglect develop many complaints affecting the
Respiratory System—and by attacking the “Middle Ear” cause
Deafness.
WAWN’S WONDER-BALM
“The Magic Salve”
NEVER FAILS TO CURE NASAL CATARRH
Insert a little -well up each nostril, massage and breathe it well in. By repeat-
ing this night and morning as well as during the day, it never fails to Cure Head
Colds—the unpleasant feeling of fulness and stuffiness in the head is stopped,
and when breathed well in by inhaling deeply, the Medicinal healing Essences are
volatilized and inhaled right down on to the Bronchial Tubes —soothing and heal-
ing all inflammatory conditions.
IN COLLAPSIBLE
SANITARY
AIR-TIGHT TUBE
■ -*8? soothes
t * , *m t Saatica
MRo.Calarrh
**.Sore and
One of the gfeat advantages of Wawn’s Wonder-Balm is the fact that it is packed
in air-tight tubes, which ensures freedom from contamination, a regularity of
strength to the last; economy and convenience.
No home should be without this Magic Salve, as its use is not alone confined to
Head Colds and Nasal Catarrh, but it has wonderful healing virtues for Cuts,
Sores, Wounds, All Skin Diseases, Festers, Ulcers, etc.
At all Chemists and Stores, 2/- per Tube.
Or direct from V. A. Wawn, Manufacturing Chemist,
44 Elizabeth Street, Redfern, Sydney, N.S.W. D 6
SmamDi
Sensational
Reductions in all
Departments.
Sale
Write To-day.
SQUARE DEAL
CATALOG.
Full List of Bar-
gains. FREE.
WRITE OR CALL FOR PATTERNS.
tShe “QUALITY” Suit
Tailored-to-Measure. Usually £7/7/-
SQUARE DEAL PRICE, £6/19/6
Smartly tailored in guaranteed indigo-dyed Serge, or Superior ALL-WOOL
Australian Tweeds.
HATS ! HATS !! HATS !!!
Value liKe this cannot be expected again.
SMART FELT HATS, in latest shape, with contrasting band. Colors:
Grey, Slate, Black or Brown.
SQUARE DEAL PRICE, 9/3
PYJAMA
BARGAINS.
Usually 14/6.
Square Deal Price, 11/3
Smart designs, warm winter flan-
nelette Pyjamas, pearl buttons and
woven girdle. All sizes.
All-Wool
Coat Sweaters.
Usually 25/-
Square Deal Price, 22/6
In fine knitted ALL WOOL, with
“V” open neck, in grey or navy.
O.S. Men’s, Usually 27/6.
Square Deal Price, 25/6
SHIFTS!!!
Immensely Reduced.
GENUINE CASHMERE TWILL, rich cream grounds, with black, blue
or helio stripes. Fitted with sleeve lifts, and reinforced necks. All sizes.
Usually 10/6.
SQUARE DEAL PRICE, 8/11
Extra Special Line—Riding Breeches
in Mounted Service style, Sizes 3 to 7. Usually 30/-
SQUARE DEAL PRICE, 26/11
rg
Leviathan
ORDER BY POST—WE PAY CARRIAGE.
PTY. LTD.,
Cr. Swanston & BourKe Streets,
t
L
Si
&
- : t
Jgjand
HPHE cost of haulage is a big item with Builders,
a Shire and County Councils. The Motor tip
wagon reduces the cost to a minimum. We supply
Tip Lorries either Steam or Petrol driven, with hand
or hydraulic tipping mechanism. The illustration
depicts our Standard hydraulic 4 ton Tipper which
is being used extensively by progessive Boards and
Councils.
LEYLAND LOGIC
Many manufacturers feat -
lire a tip-wagon on their
selling lists, bat none offer
the variety in Steam or Pet-
rol t /flat we do. The Chassis
itself is the Standard Ley-
land type, a ith our im-
proved type of body
capable of standing the
limit of wear and tear.
For hard work on heavy
roads there is no lorry that
can show the same results
as the Leyland.
LEYLAND MOTORS LTD
London Bank Chambers
MOORE STREET. SYDNEY
“For heavy Loads on heavy Roads ”


ART METAL CEILINGS.
Sterling facts
concerning Metal Ceilings.
FrONOMirAIITu and Ar ‘ is . tic Points Stam P ed Steel is now employed for every class of Building—
\ ltS Permanency ’ Adaptability, Simplicity in Fixing, and light weight for Transport.
AKuaiiLALLY, because it is the best possible medium for accurately reproducing the modeller’s art.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
s
•m
mt*
TRADE MARK
WUNDERLICH LIMITED
MANUFACTURERS.
Hg iit . m m ,T B, T : - SVl>f ' ,Ey . MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE, HOBART, LAUNCESTON.
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: Baptist Street, Red fern, N.S.W. POSTAL ADDRESS: 80x474 G.P.0., Sydney.
Bouragi”: As to those Spanish dollars
tound by Frank Jardine about 1890 in Torres Strait.
(B. 24/6/’2O) is probably right in saying
the cash was from some wrecked trader bound from
Sydney to Canton. Or the ship may have been a
Chow coolie-carrier from California or Chile, making
home with her freight of dollar-paid passengers.
Kossel Island, an outlying outpost of Papua, was
r '“. ln s, ' ( r ' h silvel ' dollars as “D.F.” describes when
William Macgregor first visited it. The native
explanation was that a big ship full of Chinamen
had struck on the southern extremity of Rossel, a
small islet cut off by a deep, narrow strait. About
a couple of hundred coolies got ashore, and the
natives kept them supplied with food, killing off
half a dozen at a time as they themselves required
fiesh meat. The Chows were soon cut out; but the
silver dollars still come ashore after every storm.
Like those Jardine found, they bear a Spanish super-
scription of the days when Spain still ruled in the
New World.
* * * *
To Po”: Our shy, useful, innocent ver-
min-destroyer is certainly not akin to the vile
tarantula of Southern Europe; but, as assuredly,
despite “Lignite” (B. 24/6/’2O), it is not a “trian-
telope ! It is up to someone to invent a better
name for this household aid which has been shud-
dered at, squealed at, and squashed by the million.
Last summer a nature-expert lectured to some hys-
terical women and nervous men in my house on
“this beneficent creature.” I invited him to pick
it off the wall, and show it to us at closer quarters;
but, although he knew it to be completely innocu-
ous, he could not touch it! So much for looks.
* * * *
“T.C.J.”: It was in White Cliffs (N.S.W.)
where the opals come from. I was waiting to be
served in Beyers’s store one hot afternoon (120 deg.
in the shade was warm there—above that they
started to notice the heat), when a youngster
entered with two empty beer bottles. She said:
“I want a pint of kerosene and a pound of butter.”
Then, smelling the bottles, she added: “This one’s
for the kerosene.” During that summer the same
storekeeper was sued for damages by a lady for
injuries sustained by sitting on the ice-chest in
his store. The case went his way, but it was a
close call, and he was warned to hang notices
over the ice-chest in future.
A FAVORED VIEW.
"Well, old man, you'll be able to say you've
seen the Prince."
"Seen ’im! Be able to shay I've seen 'im
twice."
TYaroo”: A Northern Territory report (B.
26/2/’2O) claims that the wild tribes have, “under
the supervision of a beneficent department, become like
the blacks of the other States, much reduced tribes
of harmless mendicants.” Let us hope the Northern
Territory administration is not proud of its work.
To reduce numbers and bring the wild native to the
level of the dirty, lazy, disease-infected hanger-on
THE PROBLEM OF UNEMPLOYMENT.
“What’s the matter with ’Opkins?”
”He’s worrying how he can go on strike against his unemployment wage and get it
raised ."
of bush towns can scarcely be regarded as a worthy
accomplishment. From 50,000 to 70,000 of the original
people are living in the North, and some thousands
are still untouched by civilisation. Now, I am for
making Australia a white man’s country, but in
simple justice we have got to do something for the
black if we are to dispossess him altogether of his
land. Why not do the something for him by employ-
ing him? Some years ago an abo. was awarded the
Albert medal for saving the life of the policeman
who was taking him to gaol, and to my knowledge
several donned the khaki in the recent scrap across
the water. Some have shown mechanical genius,
and many have proved their value on cattle stations.
Then why not use them to develop our empty North?
They could be taught cotton- and dry rice-growing,
tobacco-culture, and various other industries which
would flourish in the tropics. It would mean time
and expense, but surely that is to be preferred to
the present system of letting the wily Jap and the
horde of Bolsheviks who are digging their way in
supply the much-needed population. And I don’t
write this from a suburban easy-chair, but from a
camp in the Far North, where every day of my life
I come in contact with Black Brother, and I know
what he is capable of.
* * * *
“O’Smith”: At Edenhope (Yic.) there is
a merino wether 14 years old. He still has three-
teeth left. I think he must be the grand-uncle of
all the jumbuck family in Australia.
* * * *
“Scented Gum” : Mackay (Q.), knowing it
wouldn’t get a Prince holiday, decided to have one
bn its own, so went down to the nearest creek to
have the spread. The last bun was being eaten, when
Egbert’s absence was noticed, so one of the very
nicest flappers went in search of him. She found
his clothes on the bank, and nothing else. Immedi-
ately she saw the whole drama before her eyes, but
looked for the good-bye note in vain. She pictured
herself as chief witness in a “case,” such as she
had seen in the movies, and decided to end Reel One
by taking his few clothes to his mother. When
half-way, the idea came to her that even Egbert
must wash himself occasionally, so she stumbled
creekwards over the sand as quickly as her high-
heeled shoes would let her, intending to put the
clothes back. On her arrival Egbert stood before
her, garbed only in his straw hat. “You’re no lady
to take my clothes away,” he growled. She 6tared
and spoke up: “And you’re no gentleman, or you’d
raise your hat!”
“502”: Next time any Bulletin busli-
man wants to get the cork out of his luggage, and
finds himself minus corkscrew and pocket-knife, let
him try the following. Invert the bottle and hold
a very thick wad of any suitable soft material to the
base. A few smart blows on the wad will do the
trick. P.S. —The amount of luggage you lose de-
pends upon the dexterity with which you return the
bottle to the upright. P.P.S.—l’ve never tried it
on anything of an effervescent disposition.
“Pick”: The dingo is a cunning dog and
hard to trap or poison; but he can never resist a
soft pad on which to rollick home after a carouse
and that’s when he falls in. From the penning
yards draw a heavy log along his track, to and
fro, until a smooth dusty pathway has been formed.
In the dust, at intervals, set spring-jaw traps, and
he will be there waiting for you in the morning.
“Mulga”: While excavating a large tank
recently I came across a great number of frogs about
two feet from the surface. They all appeared to be
dead, and were enclosed in a substance like tissue-
paper. On taking the overcoat off one I found
that the frog was quite moist. For an experiment
I took one home, placed it under about six inches
of soil, put a bag on top, and watered it frequently.
Investigating a couple of days later I found the
frog had cast off its oilskin, and was full of life
and vigor again. Anyone know how the frog gets
his macintosh?
“Gouger” : I’ve got an old mate who’s a
fiddler. One moonlight night, after an hour’s merry
tunes, I went outside the hut to see what the
deuce that thump, thump, thump was. Sitting
straight up on the edge of the clearing, quite
motionless, ears stretched full out. were three big
roos. Whether the thump was the audience beating
tune with their tails, or not I dunno. Anyway, after
that I got quite used to
the wild things of the
North Queensland bush
coming a-listening on
the old man’s fiddle
nights. One very
appreciative gent was
a huge brown frog,
with a face like the
Devil in a nightmare.
Immediately the old
man commenced tuning-
up it was “flop, flop,
flop,” and through the
open hut doorway
would come the frog.
All through the fid-
dling hour lie would
squat, his solemn, un-
blinking little black
eyes never leaving the
fiddler. But the most
demonstrative of the
lot was a dingo. When
the fiddle was put away
for the night this
brute would lift up his
voice in the most doleful howls. My old mate was a
bit hurt at first, and talked threateningly of the
gun, until I suggested the dingo was merely saying
encore.
* * * *
“Rusty ’: A dairyman’s income-tax return
recently submitted contained no particulars as to
cows or. pigs born during the year. A printed
form, which the Department uses for such cases, was
despatched to Mr. Shorthorn, asking for further
information and an explanation as to why his return
showed no natural increase for the 12 months. The
reply was short and sharp: there had been no
natural increase. He thought eight kids enough for
any man, and, besides, the missus had been ill
most of the year.
“Werrimee”: Re clarifying water (B.
17/6/’2O). On one droving trip, west of EurongeUa
(Q-), tea was made with muddy water at two or
three different places, and as soon as brown sugar
was dropped into it the muddiness went to the bot-
tom of the bucket, leaving the tea quite clear. As
one strikes many different mineralised waters in the
bush, I can’t say if brown sugar would always act.
In north-west N. S. Wales, when copi was not avail-
able, sweet limejuice in the billycan did the trick.
Copi, which was plentiful here and there on the
runs, was locally used in iron tanks, casks and
underground tanks.
* * * *
“6T6”: The Digger isn’t the only casual
Australian on the map. One of my N.T. boys asked
me for medicine for “Rosy’s uncle.’’ He didn’t know
the cause of the trouble, but, as usual, 1 handed out
live grains of calomel. Two or three days later
two of the boys asked if they might have shovel
and bar. I asked if the old Binghi was dead. They
said, “No, but him die alonga sundown.” They
straightway dug the grave. I don’t know whether
they put it to the old chap that, having dug the hole,
it was up to him.
* * * *
“Tekelo”: Our Island brother gets a queer
twist in his logic at times. One of our gang was
a weakling, and the boss “boy” was instructed
not to allow him to carry heavy weights. While
discharging a vessel a little later I noticed the
weak boy staggering along under a load of 25
copra sacks (751 b.), his hefty mates each waltzing
along under a case of salmon (481 b.). Remon-
stration with Boss Boy brought forth the surprised
defence: “That fella no heavy, marster, bee-cos alto-
gether bag he empty.”
“Hannibal” : This is the tale of a skir-
mish in the everlasting war of nature. My home
is on the bank of Koolenbung Creek, Port Mac-
quarie (N.S.W.). There are open places on the
surface of the water surrounded by reed-beds. I
happened to notice there was not the usual number
of duck and red-bill about, which was out of the
ordinary at the time. Old dad and mum duck
and their red-bill neighbors were away—paying
their respects to the Prince, no doubt. But his
majesty the king of the creek, a swamp-hawk, hap-
pened along, and attracted my attention by wheel-
ing in circles over an open-surface area. On a
nearer view I discovered Tommy Duck and Micky
Redbill bunched up in a ring together, surrounding
their youngster brothers and sisters. The hawk
was after one of these, evidently. His Majesty
would pounce down in a gliding plane. But at
the right moment there would be a flurry of wings,
and the bunch would disappear, to bob up prac-
tically in a bunch again, still in the open water.
After this had happened three times the hawk, spy-
ing me, flew off, pursued and harried by ma and
pa peewit in defence of their kingdom, situated
in a ti-tree to which the common enemy had sailed
too close. Evidently there are allies in the bird
world. But is it an instinct bred in all bird life?
When the hawk approached first it was high in
the air, yet the young red-bills and ducks combined,
even before I noticed the hawk’s approach. They
had the sense to keep to open water, though it
seemed the strategy of the hawk to drive them
among the reeds, where it could alight and have
A QUESTION OF HEALTH.
“ That’s the sanitary inspector, Mrs. Flynn.
’E went very nasty—said I kept me
pigs too near the ’ouse.”
“Just like them Gov'ment hofficials. Bless
me soul, what harm is that going to do
to pigs, I’d like ter know!”
them at a disadvantage. Strangely enough, I’ve
never noticed it make an attack when mum and
dad duck or red-bill, shag or ibis are about. As
for swans—well, I was sorry I hadn’t a gun handy
at the time, as out of a brood of four young two
disappeared some months ago. It is no mystery
where they went.
A SAD LITTLE SONG OF FLIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is a little song of feeble flies
Walking disconsolate on bare white walls,
Looking upon the world with sad, dull eyes,
Because on them death’s icy shadow falls
And in the sighing breezes coldly calls;
Weary of wing, their bodies weak and frail,
The last lone legionaries pine and fail.
Born in the Springtime when the merry earth
Spun in a green and golden web of days,
Brought by the sun’s kiss to the joy of birth,
Eating and loving, dancing in the maze
Spun by the magic of his shining rays •,
Brave in your legions, conquering and strong,
Ah! you were happy when the dusks were long!
I have much pity for a beaten foe
Whose feet are weighted with the dread of doom;
Into the emptiness you vaguely go,
You who were born of sunshine enter gloom
And may not linger longer in the room
There! the sad song its little course has run—
Frankly I didn’t think it could be done.
VICTORIA
DALE COLLINS.


VMM
. . .... ..■,:■■■ - ,
fi '•
Ll ■
# v V;
■
v '
'drift
;.''V
S3rcs
. - >-•
N n Vs;
' . V - «’■>
;
*5 V
v ::''.
i
■ ; -Vst!'..{
was
Ml
« ,x , ‘ Z f \j
:i#i
■•.-;■ ;■ c •. r t •
. v
v.
> H-ii
&
•' V/7
mi
r&m
... i
• ',*.5:11
‘:V * VVt*
m
m
4j*4;
:&;V
.a
K*
'I
• :
£4
tlMpt
#■; ’Wmf
■ 4 : :.. ■
mm
aM„
'< ., |V
. i
cfo
M • ~ „*
Hi S
■
SSI
-
*»
SIS
m
t V
H
VC
isi.is
mm
%PS
0,
y-'-mk
■:l
II
; >|My:
Most Motor Cyclists
Dashing up steep gradients—haying a 4 'dust-up”
when the road permits—carrying a passenger
over the rear wheel —and the dozen and one
things that go to make motor cycling so popular
calls for two essentials: a good sturdy machine
and dependable tyres. Satisfactory, pleasurable
and economical motor cycling is largely a matter
of tyres, and a great deal depends on the
selection. The majority of motor cyclists in
this country take no risks in this direction,
»y fit heavyweight Australian-made “Railroad”
and will use no other make year after year.
They recognise that their safety, comfort and
pleasure depends on the tyres. They appreciate
the low running cost of these high-grade covers,
and get service that satisfies. If you have not
experienced the advantages of using Dunlops,
“follow the crowd”—get one and note results.
Popular sizes in “Railroad” and Grooved.
All leading Agents.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
(Founders of the Pneumatic Tyre Industry)
ALL STATES
AND N.Z.


i-OUE
Fife's SCHNA^ 6
Tke
Purest
Spirit
in. the
World.
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off ”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate .
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
v
D
WJ
'to
©
x <s
colds'
COUGHS
LUNG
TROUBL&
CROUP
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
*a
oi earthquake It is only by overcoming- Nature
that man can rise.... Some folks are trying to
elevate the laboring classes; some are trying' to keen
them down. The scientist has a more radical remedy
wants to annihilate the laboring classes by
ma o stei n, N ♦ ,abor -• ■ -Man the Artifex will ultimately
maste. Nature....lt is by means of applied science
i h '« th can be made habitable and a decent
human life made possible.
Consider what has been done with nitro-
gen, which Nature left for ages lying around
loose m _ prolusion before Science began to
harness it. The Chinese used it in the in-
vention of gunpowder, wherein it is valuable
because of its intense unsociubility, its
vigorous desire to get away from its' asso-
ciated elements. As an explosive, destroying
agency, it has been improved up to the
highly-efiective TNT, based on a product,of
coal-tar. . Unlike most other explosives,
this one will .stand a lot of banging about;
a bullet can be fired through it. or it can be
lit with a match without exploding it, and it
can be liquefied and poured into shells.
Nitric-acid is a constituent of all high ex-
plosives. It was obtained from the sodium-
nitrate deposits of Chile, most of which went
to Britain and Germany. When Germany’s
.supplies were cut off, the [Taber process was
used for making ammonia by direct synthesis
of its constituent elements in the air, and
then, by the Ostwald process, turning the
ammonia into nitric-acid. There are other
methods requiring electrical power, which
Germany could not afford at the time.
In these processes there are used the
curious agents known as catalysts, which
when mixed with other elements affect a
radical change in them, producing some-
thing new and strange, without being altered
themselves. An electric spark passed
through hot air “fixes” the nitrogen in air;
iron mixed with two harmless substances,
washing soda and carbon, produces sodium
cyanide and carbon monoxide —two of the
deadliest compounds known to man, the first
so violent that, “as a freshman said in a
chemistry recitation, ‘a single drop of it
placed on the tongue of a dog will kill a
man.’ ”
Besides providing poisons and explosives
for destroying human life, nitrogen is the
chief agent in maintaining plant life, and is
therefore a true friend of man, for all flesh
is grass. Tlants have laboratories of their
own for fixing nitrogen. The Great War
no_t only starved people; it starved the land.
“Enough nitrogen was thrown away in some
indecisive battle on the Aisne to save India
from a famine.” The author goes on to
explain the operation of fertilisers—potash
and phosphates. By their use Germany
increased her yield of wheat from 19 bushels
per acre in 1890 to 35 bushels in 1913, and
Britain from 2S to 32 bushels in the same
time. The natural supply of potash is ap-
parently limited, and no method has yet
been discovered for obtaining an artificial
supply cheaply.
Prof. Slosson gives a good account of the
discovery of the waste that had occurred in
the making of coal into gas and coke, and
of the thousands of substances —particularly
dybs—now obtained from what was once a
worthless by-product. The dependence of
the rest of the world upon Germany for dyes
was made known to everybody by the war,
but the fact that by sheer carelessness Britain
had let Germany take the dye industry out of
her hands is not so well known. William
Perkin, an Englishman, had discovered
mauve in 1856, while searching for artificial
Quinine; he was given a knighthood, but in
1874 he abandoned the attempt he had made
to manufacture dyes because the British
universities refused to educate chemists or
carry on research. Hofman, a German
chemist with whom Perkin had worked in
London, went back to the fatherland, picked
up plenty of skilled assistants, and began an
industry which brought in enormous fortunes
—for Germans.
After telling the stories of rubber, sugar,
alcohol, oil. stardh and the metals, ail the
commonplace materials of life, Creative
Chemistry concludes with a note on radium
and the dazzling prospects of controlling the
vast energy locked up in the atom as set
forth by some imaginative chemists. Unfor-
tunately “the atom is as much beyond our
reach as the moon.”
Dr. Slosson’s book should be read by poli-
ticises and university senators, for it will
convince them that the endowment of scien-
t’fic research is the most practical means
of solving labor problems, speeding-up pro-
duction, and adding to the material comfort
of the whole people.
B. S.
The Poet and His Judgments
I was deeply interested in “ll.L.’s” com-
parison of the great poet to a well-bred St.
Bernard dog (Red Page, 24/6/’2O). What
seent on the snow is to the dog, rhyme and
rhythm and word-music and all the in-
tricacies of imagination are to the poet; but
—so ran the argument—for Heaven’s sake
don t ask him to explain anything! Isn’t it
about time this idea that the poet is a
musical idiot was dropped? It isn’t in any
way in line with fact. There have been
freak singers who wrought a little magic
out of a clouded brain, but .the better crafts-
men in verse have all been sane and quite
capable of explaining themselves. Milton
was the great, overworked secretary of the
English Commonwealth, and gave his sight
for a political ideal; Dryden and Pope drove
excellent business bargains with their pub-
lishers ; Grey was a university don; Shelley
was an eager social and moral reformer;
Coleridge made many of the wisest remarks
of his time on ordinary human problems —
'and many of the unwisest also. Everybody
agreed that Byron proved himself a man of
affairs when he went out to Greece and
tackled the problem of making brigands into
soldier citizens. Tennyson was a first-class
mathematician, and something more thau a
first-class botanist; Mathew Arnold was a
famous inspector of schools. The list could
lie extended to any length ; and the number
of poets who were poets and nothing more is
so small that it doesn’t count. What the
sane, capable man whose best life-work has
been done in verse has to say about verse
is really the only thing on the subject worth
listening to.
As for pouts being bad critics, the plain
fact stands that the assured places of all
the great English poets were given them b.v
the voice and pen of the poets who fol-
lowed. Almost every prose writer in every
age has been wrong in his judgment of the
verse writers of his time; almost every poet
worthy of the name has been right. Time
is the final arbiter in these things : and time
agrees with the poets. Milton gave Shaks-
peare his true place, a place he did not hold
in the text-books on literature until a cen-
tury ancl a half later. Dryden gave Milton
his place at a time when he was only read
b.v Puritans and a very few men of letters.
Shelley knew the worth of Keats when the
prose dullard of the Quarterly Review was
writing his work down. And So it has been
from the first and must continue to be to
the end ; the expert knows his subject better
than the outsider. In the matter of verso
the prose man is the outsider.
But: a curious qualification is required
here, for the prose man pure and simple is
almost as dead as the dodo. Nearly all our
best prose-writers have gone some distance
on the road of verse; and even if they
have not gone very far that brief journeying
has given them a different outlook on the
poetry-maker and his craft. Daily news-
paper journalists and university professors
alone seem to represent prose to-day in its
complete separation from verse; and their
remarks on poetry are generally of the
aggressively futile sort which marked the
reviewing of long ago. Personally, I don’t
know one writer of even moderately good
prose in Australia who has not at some time
written verse.
C. O. M.
A Satchel of Books
The Beautiful Mrs. Davenant, by Violet
Tweedale (Herbert Jenkins, London). A
yarn of a country house and a ghost who
wasn’t. The characters are well enough
drawn and the incidents fairly described;
but the thrill doesn’t amount to much and
the plot is thin.
The Forty-Third, by Captain E. J. Colli-
ver and Lieut. B. H. Richardson (Rigby,
Adelaide). This is a bulky, history of a bat-
talion, with maps, illustrations and lists of
living and dead—-a complete calendar and
diary from March 7, 3916, to December 31,
3918. Few, if any, battalion records have
seen print in better form.
Come Out of the Kitohen, by Alice. Duer
Miller (Hodder and Stoughton). A pleasant
bit of comedy ' along conventional lines.
Revelly and his wife leave Reveliy Hall for
a holiday, and the rest of the family, finding
themselves at home with little cash, resolve
to let the place and act as servants to the
new tenants. The mirth is in the complica-
tions that follow. Very readable stuff.
Myra,, by Arthur Fetterlers (Blackwood).
A thin novel written around social and
political movements that don’t matter much
in the setting. The characterisation is not
remarkable nor the writing very attractive;
but the girl gets the man she wants, even
if the authors idea that this has some con-
nection with the failure of certain propa-
ganda doesn’t convince the reader.
The Guardian, by Isabel Maud Peacocke
(Ward, Lock, London). This is a capital
yarn of northern Maoriland, full of the color
of the life that is lived there and teeming
with incident. The girl is attractive and
well handled; the chief man is possible; the
two fathers are as believable as most fathers
in fiction; and but for the clroop-eyed de-
vourer of women, who gets all that is com-
ing to him and asks for more, the tale would
be quite satisfying.
The 38th' Battalion, by Eric Fairey (Ad-
vertisebvßendigo). This volume, in modest
paper covers, has a foreword by W. M.
Hughes, which contrives to say even less
than the usual formal preface. ' The book
is by a private in the battalion, and the story
is freer and less burdened with minute detail
than mest soldier compilations. What it
lacks, however, in the solid material of which
history is made is fully atoned for by the
greater freedom of the writing. There are
a number of photos.
The Story of Ovum and Sperm ; and How
They Grew into the Baby Kangaroo. by
Vera A. Irwin Smith, B.Sc. (Australasian
of Honor). This is a story of birth
and sex for young children in which the
author tries to bridge over the reticence of
parents and enable the little ones to start
out with a fair view of some of the important
physical facts of life. It is written with a
good deal of skill and simple candor, and
if it were part of a story in which other
childish interests dominated the pages it
might achieve its object. As it stands it
has very much the same relation to the
child-mind that a sex novel which confined
itself to obstetrics would have to that of
older people. An honest try, but a failure.
The Search for the Bonzer Tart, by
“Hamer” "(A. C. Sandford, Sydney). This
is a book of short stories full of a quiet humor
and Showing much skill in construction.
“Hamer” takes the commonplaces about him
and makes them quaint and whimsical. The
telling is breezy and the author is well with-
in the compass of sure knowledge in all he
handles. There is pathos, too, in the yarns •
and a sort of philosophy of life of a rather
drab kind is developed. Drabness is, in
fact, the keynote. Most of the men and
women are quite convincing in character,
thought and act; but they are the sort of
men and women you wouldn’t willingly meet
in the flesh, and as a consequence you don’t
much care to meet their essence in a book.
The most sordid characters have been made
fascinating in fiction because somewhere
down at its heart humanity is always fas-
cinating; and when the reader feels that a
whole stage crowded with people is drab
it must mean that he has not been brought
near enough to them. So the drabness goes
with a certain superficiality, and neither the
humor nor the pathos get down deep enough
to satisfy. “Hamer’s” book is good to a
point; but, covering the field it does, it
wanted a tremendous sympathy and a strong-
pulse of earnest life to make it greatly
matter. There is a suggestion in it of some-
thing fine which has just been missed.
The Other Hide of the Wall, by Henry
Justin Smith (Doubleday Page, New York).
So there is room for still another war hero.
But this one had to be different: he didn’t
get to the Front. Didn’t even get to France.
He had to be rendered medically unfit just
on the eve of embarkation through jumping
into the river and rescuing the old man of
the book. There is good character-drawing
and a very entertaining picture of fiat-life
in New York.
The House in Queen Anne Square, by W.
D. Lyell (Blackwood). The man who wants
to pick up a few points in Scottish law with-
out suffocating himself in law books should
read this exceptionally well-written tale of
Edinburgh. Tie probably will conclude at
the end that etmn the powerful advocate
Robert Montgomery wouldn’t be able to per-
suade the necessary majority of a Scotch
jury of 15 that it was true or even credible;
but he will admit at least that the plot has
kept him deeply interested right through.
The Pacific Islands, compiled by Percy S.
Allen (McCarron, Stewart & Cos., Ltd.,
Sydney). This handbook, produced at
irregular intervals hitherto, is now to be an
annual; and it will be of very real value
not only to tourists and traders, but also
to those who are interested in the study of
the problems which are only just showing
their nose in the Pacific. There is, besides a
description of every island in the Pacific and
a directory of the white population in most
cases, a summary of the proposals for the
future handling of German properties, and
other data for the student.
While Australia generally must trust to
luck (with occasional prayer-bursts) for
rain, the engineers are getting on quietly
with their great job of hitching the Murray
to the Commonwealth’s industrial chariot
How the national work is being tackled is
told in Harnessing Australia’s Greatest
Hirer, issued by the Industrial Austra-
lian and Mining Standard. It is lavishly
illustrated with photographs and drawings,
and in addition to a review of the Murray
water-conservation works, takes an expert
look at similar jobs in N. S. Wales and
South Aus. A useful publication on a sub-
ject which should interest all good Austra-
lians.
William Hollo/: and Other Tales, by
Gerald Grogan (John Lane). Grogan was a
young mining-engineer who, pushed out of
Mexico, where he had a job, found another
with the Tunnellers, and lost his life in
Flanders. He had started writing seriously
only after the Mexican work was cut away
from him (a little knot of young Australian
mining engineers was shifted at the same
time), and he had produced but one long
story. But that and these mining .yarns
are quite enough evidence that a writer who
had big things in him was lost when that
German shell got home on Grogan. The
Pollok and o'ther tales are told with such a
simple directness that you never think of
questioning their truth: they suggest just
that sort of power that Henry Lawson has.
The National Review for May is
strenuous, as it always is. L. J. Maxse,
the editor, is solid on one fact and
never fails to mention it—-that the
Armistice was a huge mistake. The Hun
should have.been met with the old Roman
gag that no negotiations would be listened
to while a single armed enemy stood on the
Republic’s soil. It might even have been
better to fix the line at which discussion
should commence 50 miles on the German
side of the Rhine. Then the maidens of
Cologne, instead of seeing Fritz come back
in serried ranks lying profusely about his
moral victory, would have seen a hatless,
heated, bloodshot, panic-stricken, lost-dog
creature arriving with a groan that all was
lost and that no Hun would ever fight again.
Lieut. Flora Sandes, the Australian lady
who went Joan-of-Arcing with the Serbian
army, writes “A Word” for that misused
Ally; there is an article on the ill-starred
Kolchak’s defence of Siberia; and the rest
is worth reading.
Horatia Stopford, just d*ad in England,
was a close personal friend of Queen Vic-
toria, and received many letters, understood
to be of a particularly intimate Kind. • But
her will said that all were to be “burnt'un-
read, and this has been done. However,
Victorian letters are not the asset thev used
to be, and it is quite likely they would have
merely bored the present generation.
LADY BARDS AT WOKK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tinkle-tinkle! Tootle-tootle! Fairy flam and flowery
footle.
Verse that simpers, faints and wheedles, done with
maiden knittinig-needles.
Tootle-tootle! Tinkle-tink! Just as suds go down
the sink, - »
It is easy. Little maid, come and learn the pretty
trade!
Tinkle-tinkle-tinkle-tap! Big rough men don’t care
a rap
For the tiny noise we make! Don’t give ir, for
goodness sake!
All together— Tinkle-link! though it drives the
world to drink.
linklertinkle-toot.le-tujm! Soothing as a hk wflv's
hum!
(All together, very softly.)
J inkle-tinkle ! Tootle-tootle ! Fairy flam an * flowery
footle!
Verse that simpers, faints and wheedles oayed on
maiden knitting-needles.
N.S.W.
A SCEUNDREL.


k
I
k
ss
i
i
I
I
I
WN.V^'.V^VVV
/'
77////#
I
T
mm
SR
HI
1
ll
I
m.JrW
> :
■
■%
.
:
_s-
i -
m
%&?*&}
\
>• 4
m
M
*
■v.
*
s|
>^S
V
P
' Vv ; C
jT>
ip
■1
■
pa
■
■
;A
.
P
✓
:
m
: :
1*
L £5V...
5*
s.
&fj
V
.
;
. <
11 m
■
.
■
IIH
pplii
ill
• ;
a.
%
i m
L l
■
w
M
/
=r
'-/Pi
sSwuj .•
L=
x
w**.*,** , ! “ "
|||:
JS
The First Essential
IN
Tyre Construction
highest;-grade
Plantation Rubber
Long before the tyre com-
mences to take shape in the
hands of the builder there
are vital factors affecting its
ultimate efficiency,
The best of high-grade rubber, care-
fully gathered in the model plantations
of New Guinea and Papua, is secured.
Only rubber that commands the
highest prices in the World’s markets
is passed for use in the sturdy
Australian Perdriau Tyres and every
pound of rubber is critically examined
by experts before being passed to the
tyre builders.
The result of this careful selection is
reaped by Perdriau users.
A prominent firm of Auctioneers
in New South Wales write on 18th '
May, 1920:
With reference to the two 31 x 4 covers
purchased from you on sth December,
1918.
These covers have been running con-
tinuously on the back wheels of our
Overland Car and have registered 11,000
miles.”
Perdriau Tyres render sturdy road
service and absolute tyre security.
Obtainable from
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, PERTH.


“THERE’S MANY A SLIP
’TWIXT CUP AND LIP.”
Take no risks
with your
WOOL
when it reaches market.
Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
DRAWS
OUT
THE POISONS
which cause Barcoo Rot,
Bad Legs, Sore Feet,
Carbuncles, Boils,
Poisoned Wounds,
Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, and
those arising from Insect
Bites.
The Proprietors of
GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT
have an absolute confidence in its un-
surpassed merits. They know it to be a
safe and j)erfect cure for all skin and
blood ailments; and the vast number of
testimonials received prove this.
GRASSHOPPER positively
draws the poisons which produce
these maladies out of the system.
As a tonic, liver medicine, blood purifier,
and for those who suffer from headaches, the
GRASSHOPPER PILLS
are equally effective. Do not be persuaded
to purchase any substitute preparations.
Sold by all Drug Stores and Chemists
throughout the Commonwealth.
RIDE A B.S.A.
FOR HEALTH
Make the most of your leisure hours
by recruiting your health in the fresh
air. You can get away at once, with*
out any preparation, alone or with a
companion, and enjoy every minute of
the ride. The gentle exercise gained
will keep you fit, and the fresh air will
give that necessary tonic which will
keep depression and care away.
Reliability, comfort and ease of control
are all studied in the construction
and design of B.S.A. Fittings. The
experience of years are at the back of
every machine and the strength and
finish make long service inevitable —
but be sure of genuine B.S.A. Fittings,
they are most economical in the end.
RIDE A BICYCLE BUILT OF
GENUINE
HTINCS
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
All B.S.A. Fittings are
guaranteed interchangeable.
SEND FOR B.S.A HANDBOOK FREE.
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
4
AN
mrsmwm
mm
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
rA-x
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BH AS,
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
HiKh'Srsdß Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS.
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
H. N.
"Collins House,
Sydney Agent:
KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street
” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Adelaide Agent:
C S STOKES, 62 Brookman Buildings.
A PERFECT
SHAVE.
It’s British.
dr
Christopher Johnson & Co.
BHEFFIEI.D, ENGLAND.
Their Famous Full Hollow-Ground
Metropolitan Razor.
PRICE 10/6,
Of all Stores.
If unable to procure send Postal Note to their Agents.
NORMAN BAKER 8c LONGHURST, 50 York Street,
328 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
SYDNEY.
this
Shirts
are cut on generous lines; they fit, are comfortable
and have all the niceties of workmanship and style
that characterise good shirts.
Sold by all clothing stores.
Have you tried Thistle Pyjamas ?
Alexander Stewart & Sons Ltd.
Makers
BRISBANE and SYDNEY
A.S. 39
a,
%
&
m
m
&
mm.
’Sr
&
&
Sgk? Mur brand
on oach jhirt.
©
m
to
m
riM 2 Cm
URODONAL
The Great French Remedy for Gout, Rheumatism, Gravel, Calculi,
Obesity, Acidity, Arterio-Sclerosis.
The age of a man is the age of his arteries. Keep your arteries young by
taking URODONAL, and you will thereby avoid Arterio-Sclerosis, which
hardens the walls of the blood vessels and renders them stiff and brittle.
THE SIGN OF THE TEMPORAL ARTERY.—(Dieulafey’s Temporal
Sign.) “If you should see between the eye and the root of the hair,
under the wrinkled and withered skin of the temples, a kind of hard,
bluish and knotted cord protruding, be on your guard, for you are
threatened with senility. It does not matter if you have not a white hair;
your arteries are growing old. It is necessary to act immediately. Purify
your blood of the poisonous substances which taint it, and especially of
the most dangerous of all, viz., Uric Acid.”
Dr. J. 1. S. BOTAL.
DISSOLVES URIG ACID as easily as warm
water dissolves sugar!
PREPARED BY ETABEISSEMENTS CHATEEAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 10/9.
From all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australia.
Booklet containing Medical Opinions can be obtained from Cliatelain’s
AUSTRALIAN AGENCY: 352 KENT STREET, SYDNEY. [3
m
M
i
I
Business, Robbery, etc.
South Aus. wonders if it can grow tobacco
as a commercial proposition. Good leaf is
produced in an amateur way, and Premier
Barwell made it a small plank in his recent
policy speech. Victoria has a tobacco ex-
pert, Temple Smith, and has been asked to
lend him to report upon possibilities.
# # * •
By “The Oldest Inhabitant”: —
The Bulls are following the example of the Coopen
—a long way off as far as values are concerned—in
disposing of their Sydney properties. Henry Bull
sells Bull’s Chambers, and Major Bull and another
offer Ocean House, in Moore-street. The site of the
former was a part of a grant to George Crossley, a
notorious English attorney of the convict days: it
subsequently became the property of John Hosking,
the first Mayor; then it was Hampton’s Hotel, where,
on hot summer days, thirsty Sydney could irrigate
under the shade of the trees which the early owners
had planted. The City Bank was the last holder.
Apropos, Henry Bull, who is now residing in London,
sends £5OO to the rector of St. Luke’s, Liverpool,
for the purpose of preserving that structure. The
gift is in memory of his father and mother, who
were amongst the early communicants in the church.
This building was erected in 1819, from plans pre-
pared by architect Greenway, the builder being Nat
Lucas, who died before its completion, and was the
first to occupy a grave in the adjoining cemetery.
The Bulls date back to the ’thirties, John and James
being farmers. Ocean House is built on the site
of the garden attached to Black’s Terrace, erected
about 1838 by John Black, of the Bank of N. S.
Wales, and father of Reginald, M.L.C.
* * * *
“McNorth”: Round about Cape York
(N.Q.) there are timbers with special
qualities that will make them much sought
after when the country is opened up. In
some of the jungles there is a species of
softwood, called unka by the natives, which
resists the attack of the cobra-worm—the
white ant of the sea that destroys the hulls
of wooden ships. Pieces of unka have been
left in places infested by cobra without the
slightest sign of attack. In one case the
experiments covered several months. It is a
light, durable timber, easy to work up and
useful for housebuilding. Then there is
swamp-mahogany, a large tree that inhabits
slightly-swampy spots on the edges of jungles.
It resembles cedar somewhat, but is much
tougher and harder. Its great virtue is
that white ants turn up their beaks at it.
Binghi accounts for this phenomenon by
attributing to the timber a fibre that tangles
itself in the teeth of the termites. How-
ever that may be, swamp-mahogany is in-
valuable for house-piles in white-ant country.
Then there is the straight-grained, extremely
light the natives of those parts use for
canoe-making. Its lightness is due to its
open texture. This quality is liable to make
balsa much in demand by makers of refrigera-
ting chambers. A variety that grows in S.
America is already in use in refrigeration.
Balsa grows to a great height, achieves tre-
mendous corpulence in its old age, and is
about the straightest and cleanest-limbed
tree of the jungles,
* * * *
“Wealsman”: Tasmania has at least three
new co-operative stores in view, one pro-
jected by the Returned Soldiers’ Association,
another by the Hobart Trades and Labor
Council. Several attempts made in the past
to establish co-op. stores in the Speck have
fallen down during their preliminary can-
ter ; only one, started by the Zeehan miners,
did anything on the course. The simple fact
is that Tasmania is perhaps the least-pro-
mising State of the group for these things.
There are only 200,000 persons in the whole
State and but one town (Hobart) with more
than 40,000 residents. Practically every-
body even in Hobart and Launceston
knows everybody else, and nearly every-
body is in some way connected with
somebody who is in some way interested in
some established business. Outside of poli-
tics (and perhaps religion) there is no
fighting worth mention; certainly there is
none between the consumers as a class and
the shopkeepers as a class. A co-op. store
is necessarily an engine of war whose adher-
ents must operate in the open: a housewife
with a son-in-law in basiness as a baker and
a daughter-in-law keeping a grocery shop
cannot well become a loyal and out-and-out
supporter of the village co-op. without being
found out. Multiply such supposititious in-
stances by only 10 per cent, of the cus-
tomers that a co-op. store might expect to
start with, and the reality of the handicap
becomes apparent. Perhaps the better way
in small communities for the organised
workers to secure the benefits of collective
bargaining in household supplies would be
to make terms with certain suppliers in
each line of goods, guaranteeing the organi-
sation’s solid and constant custom in that
line in return for specified-quality goods at
fixed prices. Retail traders will cut prices
to bedrock if they are guaranteed a big body
of new customers.
POOR LUCKLESS ONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, listen while my grievance I in poesy expound:
I am the most unlucky wretch that with the world
goes round!
My health is bad, my wile is frail, my children make
of me
An animated cockshy. I’m a woeful sight to see
From ills rheumatic, and I hate this endless, hopeless
strife — ,
No wonder I am longing for the higher, brighter
life!
Last week I’d screwed my courage to the final, fatal
act:
On quick asphyxiation I had quite resolved, in fast.
I wrote our coroner a note, and said a prayer or
two,
And in my room stopped all the holes, and tightly
plugged the flue,
And then I took a final look upon the pallid sun,
Turned on the gas, and waited for my troubles to be
done.
I waited and I wondered, and I might be waiting
yet,
For nothing but the east wind came complaining
from the jet.
The gas-men were on strike. Alas! they brought
to me to-day
A bill for all the wind I used, and I must live to
pay.
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


Willard
STORAGE
BATTERY
Can You
Answer These?
You may not want to take care of
your car’s electrical system yourself,
but you olight to know how to tell
someone else, or it may cost you a lot
of money some day—when your
battery can’t stand the pressure any
longer. Here’s a test:
Can you answer these questions?
Is your generator working pro-
perly?
Are your starting motor brushes
0.K.?
Are your spark plugs clean?
Is solution at the proper level?
Is the charge too low?
Are the terminals tight or loose?
Is the battery firmly wedged or
clamped into place?
The Authorised Willard Service
Stations can answer them for you
in a few minutes.
gd
STORAGE
BATTERY
Willard Threaded Rubber Insulation
«ur
*
&
A>
0
•p
*5


H°LEPRo°F
HOLEPROOF HOSE
have been bought by
millions of people for
many years. That fact
alone is proof enough
of e xtra ordinary
value.
Have you ever thought
what YOU may he mis-
sing by going without this
brand ?
Here is practically . . .
ABSOLUTE FREEDOM
from darning and you
have the choice of pure
silk and fine lisle.
*
i
u.
(l
'
If your
dealer is
unable to
supply you,
write us.
Indents and
Wholesale thru
WALTER
CAT H R O
PTY. LTD.
50 York St.
SYDNEY.
as?
A Few Minutes
aDayforaGood
Complexion
IS it worth that to you?
There is a simple, sure
way that costs little and
if followed regularly will
bring results.
Try this simple formula—
“A little CREME ELCAYA
rubbed gently into the skin;
the* ii you need color, a very
little good rouge spread care-
fully over the cheeks before
the cream is quite dry; and
after that the film of faco
powder over all.”
CREME
ELCAYA
is a delightful, non-greasy, dis-
appearing toilet cream that
makes the skin like velvet.
Price 2/6 per pot
Large size, 5/-
Eleaya Face Powder, 4t./G-
Elcaya Cold Cream, 4/C-
All good Stores and Chemists,
or direct from
Druggists’ Sundries, Ltd.,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Creme
icaya
THE GRESHAM,
Brisbane's Leading Hotel.
A
\
/
jOHNSONs
CAR B OK|
remover
TOR
SSSSS
rlOffOß
KOTOR CYCLES
IIAPJNE ENGINES
sparkplug?
Free your Car of
Carbon the Easy
Way—-through
the Exhaust
Carbon Deposits can be
removed easily andsafe-
ly by using Johnson’s
Carbon Remover. No need
to lay up your motor car when you follow this
satisfactory method. After one application your
car will run as it did the first 500 miles, and you
will secure maximum power and speed from the
minimum amount of fuel
is a harmless liquid to be poured or squirted
into the cylinders. Contains no acids and does
not affect lubrication or interfere with the oil'in
the crank case. It is widely used.
Johnson’s Carbon Remover cures of engine
troubles. It increases power, improves accelera-
tion, quiets your motor, saves your batteries,
lessens your repair bills and reduces your con*
sumption of petrol and oil.
No mechanical experience is necessary to use
Johnson’s Carbon Remover. You, yourself am
obtain satisfactory results m five minutes, bee
your dealer today Get a tin of Johnsqn sCa -
bon Remover and learn for yourself just how
easy the Easy Way is.
S. C. Johnson & Son
379 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
And Racine, Wisconsin, U.S.A.
HOUSE HUNGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bill Smithers occupied the dock ;
A hangdog grin adorned his face
As on the tick of 10 o’clock
The sour P.M. began the case.
"You’re charged,” the sergeant’s voice was rough,
“With stealin’ one goold watch an’ chain —
llow d’ye plead?” In tones as gruff,
“Xot guilty” came the old refrain.
“Six months’ hard 1ab0r!”.... William swore,
Then turned to' where his guardian stood
Invitingly beside the door
That leads to cheerless servitude.
The p’licemau bowed as Bill withdrew.
“Excuse me, sir,” he said, ‘lcjpn’t rouse,
But, as you’ve got six months to do,
Please don’t .you want to let your house?”
x.s.w.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.
Exit at 88, William Gunn, of Broadmarsh
(Tas.). Born in . the.. Speck, he went
to Scotland' and worked as a youth ...i the
Daily Mail, of Glasgow, the first daily
newspaper north of the Tweed. He had
lived on the one farm and fined the infre-
quent local drunk for 65 years.
Dead, in Dublin, and buried in Glasnevin,
Nicholas Donnelly, son of a Dublin soap-
boiler, auxiliary bishop of Dublin since 1883.
A very handsome man but not popular ; he
was “a Castle man.” Some years ago he came
to Sydney expecting an Australian bishopric,
but got cold shoulder instead, add so re-
turned to Ireland.
Professor T. Hudson Beare, of Edin-
burgh Uni., recently appointed Deputy-
Uieutenant of the City and County, is a
native of S. A fie., his father having arrived
by the Duke of York in the 'thirties. Chief
Justice Murray ,and Beare Were at Adelaide
Uni. together, and both won scholarships.
Ernest Cooke, of the N.S.W. Observatory,
was Adelaide’s third brilliant star of the
same period.
Apparently the war. cost Australia about
a quarter of million people, besides the
58,000 who are buried in alien soil. That
calculation is based on the increase by excess
of immigration over emigration for the five
years 1910-14 compared with five war-
years, including 1919. lit the first period
the excess was 220,356; in the latter there
was a deficiency of 87,304—which includes
the men who went away and will not return.
“Gouger”: The CooktdWn Planting Pty.
Co., of Melbourne, has taken up 6000 acres
outside Cooktown (Q.) for an experiment
in peanut-growing. Fifty to 100 acres are
to be under cultivation by the end of the
year, and big things are expected to follow.
There is a vast supply of rich, cheap, well-
watered land available in the district; and
if the co., working with modern tools, makes
a success of the venture it will have per-
formed a national service.
The Argus Kas offended Bungaree (Vic.)
to the soul by asserting that “the Sinn Fein
and disloyal element is predominant” in that
district. It is nearly half a century since
Mint Sauce Jones address-ed a hostile meet-
ing as “gentlemen of Ballarat and savages
of Bungaree.” Bungaree replied to the
aspersipn by throwing potatoes at him, but
Bunga'ree’s latest, traducer is too far away
to throw potatoes at. At the present price
of potatoes, it would be like throwing money
at him, anyhow.
A Westralian Digger is wondering whether
it’s not up to him to get annoyed with some-
body. After five years’ active service, he
came home and found that a little suburban
property at Victoria Park, worth about
£l5O, had been disposed of for £2O to cover
£5 11s. 7d. arrears of rates. The civic autho-
rities have advised him they made every
effort to ascertain his whereabouts, but failed.
The Digger has accepted the excuse ; still, as
he was Mayor of Victoria Park for five
years and his name is prominent on the
suburb’s honor-roll, he hints that he believes
he could have thought up a better one
himself.
“Dolphin”: Port Fairy (Vic.) has a gun
which saw Service in Nelson’s day and may
have been fired at the Battle of Trafalgar.
It was dug up out of the sand in 1865, and
was supposed to have been on a brig named
the Sir John Byng, wrecked in the bay in
1853. The local story is that two men
engaged in salvage work on the brig threw
the gun overboard, reckoning to pick it up
later, but lost it. A local citizen sent a
descriptibn of it to the Admiralty, and the
reply was that it belonged to the Nelson
period and had at one time been on the Fan-
tome. The Fan tome was broken up at
Sydney about 1840, and presumably the gun
was sold along with other stores.
“P.X,”: A Sydney Court the other day
had a chance Jo settle a dispute that turns
up a thousand’ 1 times, a year, and, after the
manner of Courts,, it found a way to dodge
the difficulty. ..Is a bath-heater an article
of furniture? A man had 'sold his home for
- £5OOO, and everything - was wreathed in a
smile until the wretched bath-heater was
mentioned. At that they got into holts, and
the subsequent proceedings cost them over
£2OO. Solomon on the bench, instead of
settling whether the thing was a fixture, to
go with the house, or a niece of furniture,
to be removed with the dustpan and the
kettle, professed disgust for so great a
quarrel over such a trifle, told the seller he
could remove the nuisance if he could do it
without disturbing the water, supply, and
ordered each party to pay his own costs,
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: In Sydney in
the first ’fifties the only theatre of note
was the Victoria in Pitt-street, whose stars
were Sara Flower. Mrs. Guerin (Nellie
Stewart’s mother), Carandini and the How-
sons. Several of the beer-pumps had sing-
ing-saloons attached, notably the Rainbow,
on the N.-W. corner of King and Pitt
streets, and the Crown and Kettle, York
and Barrack streets, right up against the
barrack-gate. In every suph pub was a
room with a table running its whole
length, furnished with forms and chairs and
a‘chairman with a small wooden hammer.
Silence was called with the hammer. On
his right, in the corner of the room, was
1 a piano. The pianist was the only paid
performer, as a rule. Those who sang were
loudly applauded, and often the Saturday-
night concerts were uproarious, for the
waiters’ “Give your orders, gents.; give your
ordefs,” was heard unceasingly.


*6
If
MALTHOI)
READY ROOFING
Is Made to Last
Most ready roofings look the same but
they vary greatly in quality. The actual test
of service must be made before you can tell
the difference between good and poor ready
roofing.
Malthoid has proved , its merits under
every condition. It has stood the test of
time and weather because the finest quality
is built into it.
In its manufacture, only long-fibred, tough
felt is used. This felt, which is made in the
company’s own plant, is saturated with as-
phaltum of just the right consistency to pre-
serve the fibres. Then the whole is coated
with a special weather-resisting compound:.
Malthoid, the finished product, has an ex-
ceptionally long life, is fire-resistant and will
not dry out or rot.
Standing back of Malthoid quality is the
great organization of The Paraffine Com-
panies, Inc. Every process of manufacture,
from the gathering of the rags for the felt
to the turning out of the finished roofing, is
carried on within the one organization. This
fact, and constant supervision by experts,
make it,certain that the quality of Malthoid
is always maintained.
It is this careful choice of materials and
precision of manufacture which have made
Malthoid the recognized standard Of ready
roofing. • •
The PARAFFINE COMPANIES, Inc.
(F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager),
Challis House, Sydney.
fad
The standard of its kind and “Not the same as others.’’
PA© CO
PRODUCT*
Roofings, Felts,
Building ' Papers,
W aterproofing
Materials,
Wall-Board,
Floor Covering,
Tndustrial Paints,
Pabco Metal
Paints, etc.
MAL-THOID’S most enthusiastic
supporters to-day are those
who have at some time used
something' else because it


RASH ALL OVER
UTILE BOY
Pimples Itched, Burned and
Disfigured. Lost Sleep.
Cuticura Heals.
“For about eighteen months my
little boy had a rash all over him. It
appeared in blotches and the skin was
red and inflamed. Big hard lumps
came and left pimples and they would
burn and itch terribly. He lost a
lot of sleep and the rash caused
disfigurement.
“I then got a free sample of Cuti-
cura, and it relieved him so I bought
more Soap and Ointment and he was
healed.” (Signed) Mrs. Hosking, 13
Prentice St., W. Brunswick, Vic.
Clear the pores of impurities by daily
use of Cuticura Soap and occasional
touches of Cuticura Ointment as needed
to soften, soothe and heal. They are
ideal for toilet and nursery purposes.
For sample each address: "R. Towns &
Co., Sydney, N. S. W. M Sold everywhere.
ISNip Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
WilliamS 1
Dental Cream
I
'THE regular use of Will-
iams’ Dentalactic Dental
Cream means fine, well-
cared for teeth, which ex-
press health and
refinement. Will-
j iams’Dental-
I actic Dental
, Cream is a per-
| feet dentifrice
| and an efficient
antiseptic
which preserves
he teeth, keeps
them clean and
beautiful, and
kills the danger-
ous germs in
the mouth and
throat, keeping
them in a fine,
healthy condition.
Sold by Chemists
Everywhere.
Send 1/9 i n
stamps to Wil-
liams, Box 98
G.P.0., Sydney,
for full-sized
l tube, post free.
W. 6
| OR.foi
[••.V.v
Williams’!
ot OenialacHc H
■to.vis.PAT off-
Den fa I
Cream
r j ß
m
THE
-» B.WItUAMS CO
oiastonbuw.conn.u^
HOM
WILLIAMS >1
Potastrop
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
f
600 Shaves
in One Blade
with the Only Heel &
toe Motion Strapper.
Post Free, 30/=
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Send To-day to
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDNEY,
And COMMERCE BUILDING, MELBOURNE
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 51st Street,
' New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
N*Sj
>5
Fairbanks-Morse
“Z" ENGINES
iy 2 H. P. to IS H. P.
Economically Use Kerosene
HERE is an engine built for all farm work. Whether
you need power for driving a small chum or separa-
tor, or whether you want to run a large pump or
com sheller—a Fairbanks-Morse "Z” engine is the most
economical engine you can buy. Full power at lowest cost.
The "Z" engines have Built-in Oscillating Magneto,
Throttling Governor, Spfeed Controller, Make and Break
Ignition, Close Speed Regulation, Removable Bqshings in
Bearings. They operate on either kerosene or petrol.
With every “Z" engine, you get Fairbanks Moraa
Quality the assurance of the utmost in enduring
engine value.
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD., Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & CO., Adelaide.
JAMES BARTRAM & SONS, LTD., Melbourne.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Brisbane.
MALLOCH BROTHERS, Perth.
DONALD & SONS, LTD., Masterton, N.Z.
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD., Hobart, Tasmania.
Ulsommm
THsttUato
or*
Petrol
pairbanks. Morse &(§
Foreign Dept.,
NEW YORK.
INCORPORATED
MANUFACTURERS
London, England,
Buenos Aires, Argentina
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST -NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Room 5, 2nd Floor, 227 Collins St., Melbourne
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
gs
S 3
Flannelette 9
%
dfg
35
SAFETY
sdf
COMFORT
#1
gs
Flaa/ieletCed
jam
rn
V»
ft,.
1
X JJL feS
mm
ii ■
m
Don't Jar Your Nerves
With Slamming Doors
Equipped with Yale Revers-
ible Door Closers, all doors
close noiselessly.
The Yale Reversible
Door Closer
is a device that closes the door
effectively, every time and
without noise. It brings com-
fort and quiet to the home, the
office and the factory. It forever
stops the annoying slamming
that sets your nerves on edge.
It is easily fitted, just as re-
ceived, to any door without
change or trouble.
Dependability of performance
has marked Yale Products for
half a century. You get it in
Yale Padlocks, Cabinet Locks,
Builders’ Locks and Hardware,
Chain Blocks and Bank Locks.
The Yale & Towne Mfg. Co.
Established 1868
New York U. S. A.
YALE.
TRIPLEX BLOCKS
\
Special features: —
1— Hoists twice as fast as a screw-geared ble
2 Continuous Hand Chain Guide, permitting (rapid lowering.
3 Rated on long ton(224olb.)and tested to 50%
4 Can be fitted to any length of lift.
5 Spare parts available.
6 Hand and Electric Blocks available froir
FRANK R. PERROT, Sole Australian Agent,
334 Kent Street, Sydney; 883 Hay Street, Perth.
L. BANNISTER, 39 Queen Street, Melbourne.
EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., 121 Street, Brisbane.
The new Under-Treasurer of South Aus.
(in succession to Tom (sill, retiring on
account of age) is himself a veteran. H. F.
Peacock will be 70 in October, and has been
under 14 political Treasurers. He has been
in Government service since childhood, ex-
cept for one short break, which he spent
in acquiring experience in a bank.
The portrait for Adelaide Art Gallery of
recent Governor Galway is to be painted
by R. G. Eves, a Londoner who specialises
m that class of work. In Australia he is
mainly known by his portrait of H. B. Irv-
ing in the Sydney Gallery. The present
commission has been given him on the strong
recommendation of Adelaide’s art advisers
in England.
Uncle Sam has a few things to learn yet.
Shortly before the Armistice his Government
bought from the British Raw Materials
directorate 300,000 bales of Australian wool
at £4O a bale. In June, ’l9, America asked
that the contract be cancelled, and Britain
agreed. That wool was afterwards sold at
auction in Boston for just on £BO a bale —
which meant transferring about £12,000.000
from Uncle Sam’s pockets to ours, or at least
half to Britain’s and half to Australia’s.
When the House of Commons was wrest-
ling with the Home Rule. Bill Jack Jones,
M.P., weighed' in with a new clause:—
Any member of the Irish Bar who at any time
during the operation of this Act enters into an
arrangement for the organisation of rebellion against
the armed forces of the Crown shall forthwith be
made Attorney-General, and any member of the
English Bar acting likewise shall forthwith be made
Lord Chancellor.
The House didn’t accept the clause, but it
looked at Carson, and thought of F. E.
Smith (now Lord Birkenhead) and laughed
as if it remembered something.
“Mayne Stay”: After the cyclone of three
years ago that blpw most of the town of
Mackay away the local toilers demanded £1 a
day. But they managed to go one better
further north. A sugar-planter I know lost
track Of his house in a later cyclone. All
that was findable were some scattered sheets
of galvanised iron. Needing help to gather
these up and make some sort of shelter for
wife and kiddies, he looked for help and
was offered it —at £2 a day! I’d like a real
working definition of profiteering.
According to Vic. Education Department
our ancestors were not as respectable as
they might have been. The Department’s
paper for May assures Grades VII and
VIII:
We each had four grandparents, 16 great-grand-
parents, 266 great-great-grandparents.
Or perhaps it only shows how much more
effective the present generation is. Its
great-grandchild will need only eight great-
grandparents, and its great-great-grand-
child only twice as many great-great-mas
and pas.
“Vinciimis”: I shoot at “Exul’s” (B.
17/6/’2O) t-eply to “Mirza’s” contention that
candidates for final medical examination
“score by giving the examiner’s pet theories
back to them.” “Exul” may be correct in
denying this of Sydney Uni. examinations;
but I can assure him that “Mirza” is not far
wrong so far as other examinations, not
necessarily medical, are concerned. I am
preparing a young man for a civil engineer-
ing exam., the papers for which, are set by
men whom I know. An inspection of past
exam, papers for a good many years shows
questions based on their pet theories crop-
ping up time after time. I shall take care
that my man is well coached in these
favorites.
“Dolphin” recalls the whaling days:—
Though Sydney and Hobart Town took a fairly
active part in deep-sea whaling in the old days
(Hobart was one of the leading whaling ports of
the world), it was an unstable, cosmopolitan kind
of business, and the Yankees always had a big share
in it. But bay whaling, which once flourished along
the coasts of Tasmania, Australia and Maoriland,
was an invention of our own, with no exact parallel
in any other part of the world. It seems to have
originated in Tasmania away back in the early days
of settlement—before 1820 at the latest. In all sorts
of odd corners along the south-east and east coasts
of the Speck, and on the offlying islands, from
Becherche and South Bruny to the Schoutens, a few
heaps of stones and stray sections of the backbones
of whales remain to show the sites of bay whaling
stations. Each station had usually four or five whale-
boats, each boat manned by five oarsmeD, a steersman
and r. harpooner. A lookout was kept on some
handy hill during the season when the whales
were moving round the coast —from April to Septem-
ber—and as soon as the signal was given the boats
put out. On one 25-mile section of the Tasnianian
coast, from Wflmot Harbor to Ringrove, there were
eight stations, including two on the offlying Maria
Island. Possibly they were not all worked at the
one time,, though most of them undoubtedly were.
To man the eight would require between 200 and
300 men, and the total number of men at the game
in Tasmania in its most flourishing days must have
amounted to over 1000.
There is very little exact information as to the
catches; it is recorded that one of the eight sta-
tions just mentioned—it was captained by one Gar-
diner—took 33$ whales in one season, one being
halved with Watson’s station near by. The whales
were hauled into the statkm and stripped, the
blubber being tried out there. Most of the whales
caught were the southern right whale or black whale.
A bay whaling station in the busy season smelt
worse than a Royal Commission on wheat, but it took
more than that to upset the old-timers. Some of them
had a habit, when they were flensing a whale, of
chewing strips of raw blubber. For weeks, some-
times for months, after the end of the season you
could tell a whaler by the sdkH that hung about
him, for they got saturated witjh oil inside and out.
They were a hard-living, hard-dr?rtking, hard-fighting
and hard-working lot and made things very lively
in a i lot of long-deserted and peaceful .corners. They
were pretty persistent, too. When a penal settle-
ment was set. up on Maria Island in 1825 they were
told to quit. But the island was too handy to the
track of the whales to be left altogether ; so they
moved to two corners under the cliffs on the outer
or ocean side of the south end, only accessible by sea
and not easy to get at that way in any but good
weather, and carried on without the officials at the
settlement a dozen miles or so away knowing any-
thing about it.
About 1830 the bay whalers began to establish
themselves on the south-east coast of Australia, where
the sealers had been working before them. Twofold
Bay, the one place on the Australian coast (leaving
out Norfolk Island) where the business still exists,
goes back to that decade. Port Fairy was the
greatest of all bay whaling stations in its day, but
the last whale was harpooned there in 1818.


dfg
®“MAXWELL
vtf®
—the car of great
achievements !
By sheer efficiency—by a performance that is
as unique as it is remarkable—the new
“MAXWELL” has won a dominant position
among post-war cars.
22,000 miles without an engine-stop—lo,ooo
miles further than the previous record! That
is the performance.
New Maxwell” models have arrived. The
price, £550, is another Maxwell triumph.
Let us prove to you, in full, the meaning of
MAXWELL” ECONOMY how this car
will save petrol, tyres, oils, and lessen the
cost of car upkeep.
Glutterbuck Bros. Ltd.
SOLE DISTRIBUTORS FOR N.S.W.,
26 City Road, SYDNEY.
We st cl ox— Glo-Ben
A watch with a lighting
system: That describes Glo-Ben.
The hands and every numeral
on the dial carry self-contained
lighting plants which auto-
matically brighten into a steady
glow in the dark,
Glo-Ben delivers a twenty-
four hour time service, in broad
daylight or pitch darkness it
stands ready to give you the
time at a glance.
A radium compound turns the
trick, with a glow that lasts for
years. Glo-Ben is a well-finished,
man’s size watch, built to
combine dependable timekeeping
with reasonable price, and does it.
Big Ben, 25/-; Baby Ben, 25/-; Sleep-Meter, 15/-; America, 10/6;
Jack o’Lantern, 22/6; Baby Ben Luminous, 32/6; Glo-Ben, 20/•;
Boyproof, 12/6
WESTERN CLOCK CO., LA SALLE, ILL.,' U.S.A.
What Makes Beaver Board-
ing So Simple and Easy
ONLY three steps, nailing, painting
and paneling, are what makes it
so easy to build walls and ceilings of
Beaver Board.
And Beaver Boarding is quick work.
The big panels cover large spaces, and
as soon as they are nailed in place
they can be painted. The fixing of the
decorative strips completes the job
and the room is ready for instant use.
In new buildings, the Beaver Board is
fixed direct to the studdings and joists.
In old ones it is nailed over the present
walls and ceilings, whether they are
lath and plaster, wood paneling, brick
or concrete. Not only is Beaver Board
easy to apply, but its result is always
pleasing and permanent.
Painting Beatver Board
Beaver Board is in reality, re-constructed timber,
built from the fibres of Canadian spruce into
large knotless, flawless panels that will not crack,
chip or fall. Beaver Board walls, and ceilings
will last as long as the building itself.
Beaver Board is stocked by Timber Merchants
and Builders’ Furnishers. See your local dealer!
THE BEAVER BOARD COMPANIES
Thorold, Ontario—London, England—Buffalo, N. Y., U.S.A.
Mills and Works in Canada and U. S. A.
Australasian Representative :
O. D. GORDON, G.P.0.2408, Sydney, N.S.W.
BEAVER.
BOARD
You ain’t expect
Beaver Board re-
sults unless this
trademark is on
the back of. the
board you buy.f
B■H'EFt- WALLS & CEILINGS
»•
k
w
sd
MADE IN
CANADA
Paneling Beaver Board


©
©
... Saunders’ Solid Leather Suit Case, two Nickel
Side Locks, Canvas lining,. 20in., 70/-; 22in.,
75/-; 24in., £4; 26in., £4/5/-
A. Saunders’ “Swan” fountain Pen, two dot. Cold Bands,
plain, 25/-; chased, 27/6; plain Swan, 14/-
m
'. Satinders’ Sunshine Pure, in Solid Calf
Leather, 30/-
Other Designs, 12/0, 15/6, 17/6, 20/-
29
A. SaundersV Gent.’s Ebony Brush Set, finest-
quality Bristles, 40 /-
With sterling Silver Shields, 45/-, 50/-,
70/-
A. Saunders’ Writing Folio, in real Morocco Leather,
50/-. Others, 26/-, 80/-, 35/-, 40/- ,
•v
anas
iMiwwinimontwwawugUuHtpw
A. Saunders’ Cutlery Set, containing idoz. Table Knives, | doz. Dessert Knives, 3-piece
Carving Set, Xylonite Handles, finest quality Sheffield Steel, £4/4/-
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER, 805-815 GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
a
A. Saunders' Inkstand, in polished Oak. Crystal Cut-glass
Bottles, Nickel Mounts, 17/6.
B
A. Saunders* lvnife, Solid Silver Handle.
Sheffield Stainless Steel Blades, 15/6.
A. Saunders’ Solid Leather Kit Bag, best
qualit- Nickel Fittings. 12in„ 30/-; U»n.
35/-; 16in., 40/-; 18in., 45/-
•N;.
mm
.
A. Saunders’ Pocket Wallet, real Morocco Leather,
sterling Silver Mounts and Shields, SO/ -
Others, 25/-, 30/>, 35/-, 40/-
* jm ♦
'*•
J*
mmm i,
£s
l
HR ,&
. .;* .
m
■»r[4
'
m
f
a.m
After the dance or theatre—when
you reach home late and tired—that
is just when “Milkmaid” Coffee &
Milk proves its worth.
In a moment you prepare delicious,
creamy coffee with “ Milkmaid ”
and hot water only! No delay; no
trouble. No sugar; no milk required.
Indoors or out-of-doors, “Milkmaid”
Coffee & Milk is the handy prepar-
ation at all hours. You need
“Milkmaid” in your home.
Milkmaid COFFEE &
/JucJi a -funu. /c&.
Made by Nestle’s in Aust


Government Notices,
VICTORIAN GOVERNMENT
LOAN FOR £2,725,000
PROSPECTUS.
Interest at Five and a half per centum, Free of
Commonwealth and State Income Taxes.
'FENDERS will be received at the Revenue and
1 Pay Office, State Treasury, Melbourne, until a
quarter past 2 p.m. on Monday, 19tli July next, for
the whole or any portion of the above-mentioned
sum, in either of the following securities: —
Inscribed Stock under Act No. 2026 redeemable on
the 23rd July, 1923.
Debentures under Act No. 2026 redeemable on the
23rd July, 1923.
Interest payable Ist October and Ist April.
First interest coupon will be payable on the Ist
October, 1920.
No tender will be accepted at a price below par.
Stock will be issued in multiples of £6.
Debentures in denominations of £lOO, £6OO,
£lOOO, £lO,OOO.
Each tender must be sealed and addressed to the
Treasurer of Victoria, and must contain a deposit,
in cash or bank draft, of 10 per centum of security
applied for.
If the tender be accepted, the balance must be
paid on or before the 23rd July, 1920. Failure to
do so will cause the forfeiture of the deposit.
Members of recognised Stock Exchanges of Aus-
tralia only will be allowed brokerage of -1 per cent,
upon their accepted tenders.
Forms of Tender and Prospectus may be obtained
on application to the Receiver and Paymaster, State
Treasury, Melbourne.
W. M. McPIIERSON, Treasurer.
Am iiseinencs.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
1“ IVOII THEATRE, SIDNEY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF BRAN PIE.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 17, at the MATINEE.
THE TIVOLI FAMOUS PLAYERS
In the Musical Success of the Century,
HIS LITTLE WIDOWS.
Plans at Nicholson's and the Tivoli.
1" IVOH THEATRE, 'IELI*OU ItN e".
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
ROBERT COURTNEIDGE AND HIS LONDON
COMEDY CO. in
THE MAN FROM TORONTO.
Prices as usual.
HE It II A.l E STY’S. SIDNE T.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
THE SWEETEST OF ALL MUSICAL COMEDIES.
KISSING TIME.
By the J. C. WILLIAMSON ROYAL COMIC OPERA
COMPANY.
Plans at Paling’s.
Clt ITKIt 1 O N Tll E A T It E. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
TILLY OF BLOOMSBURY.
By lAN HAY.
Interpreted bv J. C. WILLIAMSON’S SPECIALLY-
ORGANISED COMEDY COMPANY.
Plans, at Paling’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
J. and N. TAIT have pleasure in presenting
MISS MARIE ILKA
in the great drama of Love and Beauty,
TIGER ROSE.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
OWN HAL L. SYDNEY.'
Direction CHAPPELL.
ENGLAND’S LEADING VOCALISTS,
AMY EVANS, Soprano.
FRASER GANGE, Basso.
SYDNEY CONCERTS:
THURSDAY, JULY 15 ; and SATURDAY, JULY 17.
Plan at Paling’s.
yNI O N PIC TC R E THE A T RES
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC. EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
LJRIt MAJESTY’S THEATRE', MELBOURNE.
1 * Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C.' WILLIAMSON LTD. present a revelation in
revues,
THE PASSING SHOW OF 1920.
Plan at Allan’s. Popular Prices.
T II It V T RE li O Y A 1.. MELBOURNE.
’ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING. AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Latest
London Success.
YES, UNCLE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
|f ING’S THEATRE. MIS L HOUR NE.
rv Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT present the fascinating English
Actress
EMELIE POLINI in
KINDLING,
A Play with a Message.
Prices as usual. PJan at Allan’s.
U OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
1 1 Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge").
TUTS' WEEK’S FEATURES:.
FRANCELLA BILLINGTON in
THE DAY SHE PAID.
and
WILLIAM FARNUM in
WOLVES OF THE NIGHT.
Prices as usual.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
ROBERT HAINES
in
THE VICTIM.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Amusements.
THE
GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
DIUTANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Amusements.
JBE ALLAX WILKIE COMPANIES.
ALLAN WILKIE AND COMPANY, including
FREDISWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
in
THE ROTTERS.
1 OPENING JULY 31, PRINCESS’S THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
No. 2 Company, in “THE ROTTERS,” Touring
South Island of New Zealand.
Address G.P.0., Wellington, N.Z.
gygEEBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films. includ<n.»
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
V'.'- Wf
? /.. • f
A Model
Hairdressing Saloon
The finest in Sydney—equipped
with every modern appointment,
convenience and comfort.
Craig 8 Aitken’s Saloon Employs
Seven Expert Hairdressers —
men whose training and experi-
ence have been gained in the
best saloons of the world.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY will
find Craig and Aitken’s Saloon
conveniently near the Central
Railway Station —almost next
door to Anthony Horderns’.
Prompt Service Guaranteed.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR, illustrated above, and for which Craig and Aitken’s
are Sole Agents in Australia, is the Razor we have used in our Saloon for over
.'lO years. Thousands of “Pluin” Razors are sold annually. Its finely-
tempered edge keeps keen against the strongest beard.
PRICE 12/6 POST FREE; or Pair in Double Case, 25/-
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
Pillion Seat illustrated above. It has many special features which contri-
bute to the comfort and safety of your passenger. With spare parts you
can make 40 different models from one
standard seat.
If you are a motor-cyclist you will want the
TAN-SAD
TAN-SAD WORKS
(F. H. Headley),
Freeman Street,
Birmingham,
Eng.
A ustralian Agents :
Cashmore 8 Russell,
Nelson House, 383 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Edison Amberol Records
for June.
geoP
June marks a new epoch for Amberola owners, inasmuch
as we are introducing a new series of records—Edison
Royal Purple Amberol Records —devoted to special Grand
Opera Selections, and the best efforts of noted vocalists
and instrumentalists. Some very fine numbers will be
found in the list below.
Amongst the Regular Records are such popular ballads
as “Mickey” and “Kisses,” a fine rendition of “Melody
in F,” by Sibyl S. Fagan, and a forceful speech by
Theodore Roosevelt.
Devotees of the dance have the fascinating selections
“Beautiful Ohio.” “The Better ’Ole” and “Jazzie-Addie.”
A very fine lot of instrumental Music completes a charm-
ing selection of records.
Royal Purple Records
29007 —Aloha Oe (Farewell to Thee),
Frieda Hempel and Criterion Quartet
29008—Mv Old Kentucky Home,
Frieda Hempel and Criterion Quartet
29009 —Ridonami la calma! (Restore Again
Mv Peace), Italian,
Taurino Parvis
29010 —File nc eroyait pas (Pure as a Flower),
Mignon, French.
29011 —Freedom For All Forever,
Arthur Middleton and Chorus
29012 —Just As I Am,
Arthur Middleton
29013 —Theme and Variations,
Frieda Hempel
29014 —L’ultima Canzone (The Last Song),
Italian. Taurino Parvis
29015 —Mira, di acerbe lagrime—ll Trovatore
(Let My Tears Implore Thee), Italian,
Marie Rappold and Taurino Parvis
29016 —Ninety and Nine,
Christine Miller
2901S —Our Little Home,
Thomas Chalmers
29019—1nn0 di Garibaldi (Garibaldi’s Hymn),
Italian. Eduardo Ferrari-Fontana
29020 —Smiles.
Marie Rappold
Blue Amberol Regular Records.
3709 —Social and Industrial Justice,
Theodore Roosevelt
3720 — Can You Tame Wild Wimmen?
Billy Murray
3721 — Singapore,
Arthur Fields
3722 — Peace Chimes March,
New York Military Band
3723 — Melody in F (Whistling),
Sibyl Sanderson Fagan
3724 Kuu Ipo i ka Hee Pue One Medley Fox
Trot, Mandolin and Ukulele,
( Samuel Siegel and Marie Caveny
3728 — Day I First Met You,’
Leola Lucey and Vernon Dalhart
3729 — Mammy’s Lullaby,
Premier Quartet
3730 Johnny’s in Town,
Arthur Fields and Chorus
3731 Better 'Ole—One-Step, for Dancing,
Jauda.s’ Society Orchestra
3732 Wedding March,
New York Military Band
3733 Beautiful Ohio Waltz, for Dancing,
Jaudas’ Society Orchestra
3736 Boy and the Birds (Characteristic),
New York Military Band
3737 Laverne—Waltz Caprice, Saxophone,
H. Benne Henton
3739—Mickey,
Vernon Dalhart
3740 —Kisses (The Sweetest Kisses of All),
Gladys Bice
3744-—Jazzie-Addie One Step,
Jazzarimba Orchestra
374 s—Arkansas Traveller, Vaudeville,
Len Spencer
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, S
mO,
Soft Felt Hats.
IN THE NEWEST
SHADES AND SHAPES.
MAHOGANY BROWN,
GREY, SLATE,
MOSS GREENS,
etc.
FROM KNOX,
MALORY,
TRESS,
SOOTT,
HERBERT JOHNSON,
And Other English Makers.
Reduction of 15 per cent, on odd
sizes.
Sidiari jiirai
314 George Street
(near Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
WIRELESS.
“EXPANSE” LOOSE COUPLER.
\XT IRELESS MEN ! This Coupler is a record-
vv breaker. Only five guineas, and it’s an instru-
ment of such good desiign and workmanship that
everybody wants one.
Get one NOW and start right.
THE AUSTRALECTRIC CO.,
97 Clarence Street, 267 Swanston Street,
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE.
fftrfmS&wwn
&
Cl
CASHS
mm
S3WVN
The Best You Can Get
for Marking Linen
Whether Household or Personal—en-
sures your property against loss. Any
Name woven into a Fine Cambric Tape
in Fast Color. Always ready to be sewn
to any garment or article on any material
Prices—l2doz. 4/6, 6doz. 3/3, 3doz. 2/3
Sold by All Best Drapers
Made in Australia by
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.,
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Vic.
Write for Style Book
67J
Australian Mutual
Established
1840.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. . . .. £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £41,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
11. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.


fg
Jp
4<?
3O' ORD n & SOK
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
sdf
DT<
%>
Swift
fc Company Lt*l.
"THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
the: palace hotel
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE 1 LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
If s !
|l|c-^C~aZ^:
8
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND
c-yvc-
BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES:
VICTORIA—CoIIins House, Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES-58 Pitt Street, Sydney * - - Phone City 2677
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane Phone 2382
fl
0
<
0
gsd
fg
gzuc-A-c-li
sdf
gs
rdg
sd
fg
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Kissing Time”
Criterion- “Tilly of Bloomsbury”
Palace “Tiger Rose”
Tivoli “His Little Widows”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Town Hall Evans-Gange Concerts
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Passing Show of 1920”
Royal “Yes, Uncle”
Kino’s “Kindling”
Tivoli “The Man from Toronto”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum ... . Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciarium Dancing
♦
Of three Sydney art shows: —
Will Ashton has a collection of oils and water-
colors at Anthony Horderns’ Gallery. The quality
about this newcomer’s painting that strikes one most
is a masculine breeziness. He is essentially a
realist—to a fault, at times; much of his work is
singularly lacking in poetry. However, it is good,
honest painting, sincerely tackled, and there is no
weak fiddling with his medium. Once Will Ashton
has decided on his subject, one imagines that all
doubt is banished from his mind—until his picture
is complete. His impressions of Sydney Harbor
are fresh and spontaneous; sometimes one feels that
more thought could well have been given to compo-
sition. There are some odd-shaped ships and a few
untidy ends of landscape that do not fit well into
the pictures. He has not yet quite got the character
of Sydney. It is Sydney with Melbourne’s atmosphere.
Still, if you want a painting of Sydney Harbor—
not a dream fantasy, but a good, truthful rendering
of modern Sydney—even now you will find
nothing better than the best Will Ashton. Curious,
by the way, how few N. S. Wales-born artists feel
impelled to paint the harbor. It seems that one
must see with fresh eyes to realise its paintable
qualities. Streeton came from Victoria, and no
other artist has painted it quite so successfully;
Hilder avoided the harbor except in a few instances;
Gruner has only flirted with it. On etcher Shirlow’s
first visit to Sydney (it was like a child’s first
visit to the theatre) he said to a gathering of
artists: “Well, you chaps ought to be ashamed of
yourselves for not making more of the harbor;”
Will Ashton has a great opportunity.
Miss Joyce Dennys’s pictures of children are being
shown at the Salon of Fine Art, Castlereagh-street.
Her work was first seen in Sydney at last year’s
Society of Artists’ show, and since then there has
been a little of it in The Bulletin. She is at her
best in “Sea Breezes” and “The Explorers.” There
is a feminine charm about her children; and she
can draw admirably. She has a delicate sense of
color and knows how to use it. One finds so many
clever girls whose work runs from delicacy to weak-
ness. It is not so with Joyce Dennys. She shows,
at times, almost a masculine strength in her draw-
ings ; yet it is not insistent enough to take away the
charm of femininity. Her black-and-white is not
up to the color work. She has a pleasing sense of
decoration, and her use of pattern and solid black
masses is very skilful. Altogether this English
girl brings with her a joyous, happy outlook on life,
which is refreshing.
McNally and Herbert, two Victorians, exhibit
water-colors at Gayfield Shaw’s rooms, Elizaheth-
street. McNally shows some of the best water-
colora he has ever done. His work in the past
Robert Courtneidge
whose show,
“The Man from
Toronto ,” is now
at Melbourne Tivoli.
has lacked “depth.”
Here and there in the
show are notes of in-
sincerity—of water-
colors too slight in
treatment to be of any
importance. He has
steadily improved, how-
ever, and No. 20
(“Evening Light”) and
No. 17 (“The Quarry”)
represent his hig h-
water mark. Of the
two, “Evening Light”
is the better. The
low-lying landscape and
distant view of the
city, with the big roll-
ing sky is very typical
of the country outside
the city boundaries of
Melbourne, and McNally
has captured its charm.
No. 6 (“The Farm”)
is a delightful little
painting—directly han-
dled and full of charm.
So is No. 13 (“The
Last Tee”). Harold
Herbert is hardly
known in Sydney at
all, but is a well-
known exhibitor in
Victoria. He has skil-
ful handling and a
pleasing sense of
decoration. His work
is clean—too clean at times —and inclined to be a
trifle cold and hard. “The Farm in the Valley” and
“Through the Trees” are typical Herberts. A few
years ago his work was slick and meretricious. It
is good to see a genuine effort to be sound, and
the advance made is remarkable.
“Tilly of Bloomsbury” is booming at Syd-
ney Cri., and the only cloud that looms
over the company is the house- and room-
famine which is threatened in Sydney three
months hence.
“Bran Pie” and Lee White twinkle to-
gether under the “last nights” sign. On
Saturday Sydney first-nighters are expected
at the Tivoli to meet “His Little Widows.”
“Tiger Rose” is doing a brisk thunder-
and-lightning trade at the Palace, and when
the stage rain falls on the scrub where
Marie lllca’s beau was before he came in-
side, the Sydney playgoers shiver sympa-
thetically and remember that Mum and Dad
outback are looking at flood-waters 30 miles
wide.
* :fc *
The man who loses his temper when “had”
by a tradesman will cheerfully pay good
money to be deceived, misled and bqjnboozled
by a stage magician. This curious fact
accounts for the satisfactory audiences “The
Great McEwen” is entertaining at Sydney
Playhousel
There’s a fine yum-yum flavor about the
advts. of Sydney Majesty’s, where “Kissing
Time” keeps turning the J.C.W. money-mill.
In order to produce his sentimental master-
pieces, the house-poet is feeding himself
exclusively on the works of the, late Ella
Wheeler Wilcox.
Tenor John McCormack will open his
concert tour on Tuesday. July 20. J. and
N. Tait have placarded the subsequent
triumphs for July 22, 24 and 27. On those
dates a cold critic will go to Sydney Town
Hall determined to find the inevitable flaw ;
whereupon John will bathe his soul in
melody and send him home in a tub.
* :!= «: *
Starting on Saturday, the Australian
War Museum begins a week of uncensored
front-line battle-pictures at Sydney Royal.
Several lecturers will take turn about. War-
correspondents Bean and Gullett will appear
on different evenings, and these writing-men
will be reinforced by three distinguished
officers —Generals Ryrie . ( Egypt) and
Rosenthal (France), and Col. R. Williams
(air). Proceeds go to the National War
Memorials Fund.
* # *
Mary Miles Minter flashes a 1000-candle-
power lantern in “The Eyes of Julia Deep.”
Julia’s story doesn’t matter much, but Mary
makes the young lady a likeable party. That
is at Sydney Lyric. At the ITaymarket and
Globe, in “His House in Order,” Elsie Fergu-
son stars as the governess who becomes her
pupil’s step-mamma. Husband has an obses-
sion as to the virtues and graces of the de-
parted missus, and hands these out to the
second party to the contract as regularly
as meal-time comes round. This being a
Pinero play, of course the workings revolve
around a letter. Wife No. 2 finds the in-
criminating document left by Wife No. 1.
confessing to a somewhat smudgy past; but
even when reproached again for the short-
ness of her wings compared with her prede-
cessor’s, she merely counts 10. O/ Henry’s
“Alias Jimmy Valentine” is the star at the
Lyceum. Everybody by this time knows the
story of the beloved crook who reforms be-
cause of a girl’s bright eyes. At Crystal
Palace and Strand is demonstrated how
love flies out of the window when a wife’s
poor relations ring the front-door bell.
** * *
The Sydney Art Society’s students’ show :
Percy Eagles, the 20-year-old whose work is
known to Bulletin readers, is the winner of the
Royal (Sydney) Art Society’s free scholarship for
this year. His prize-winning drawings from life
are firm and joyous work, and to his sound
draughtsmanship he adds the valuable gift of
imagination. His spirited illustration of Banjo’s
“Man from Snowy River” deserved to win the
competition. G. Finey hangs some vigorous pencil
and charcoal sketches which are full of movement.
His work, too, is becoming known to readers of
this red-coated rag.
The last nights of “Kindling,” at Mel-
bourne King’s, are not yet announced, but
a long run for that dispiriting story of an
unborn babe is not to be expected. The
part of Maggie Shules is Emelie Polini’s
least successful effort thus far. because she
never can suit herself to it. Her elocution
is much too correct for a Boer girl who has
come to Noo Yoik as the wife of an oratori-
cal stevedore. Nor is 11. R. Roberts a
seraphic stevedore. He’s a seraphic some-
thing—seraphicality is in his method and
his make-up, not to mention his profile—
but stevedoring is not one of Ileinie Shules’s
many virtues as depicted by the actor. And
if it were, and if Emelie Polini were a con-
vincing Maggie as well as a clever
emotional actress with a tenderly expres-
sive voice, and if the rorty ruffian of the
play were a handsome blighter (as he is
said to be) instead of haying the diminu-
tive nose and loud obtruding John
Fernside on his face, even then “Kindling
would be out of place and season in Mel-
bourne. Why, the stevedores that Roberts
stands for live in tenement houses where
benevolent or patronising sassiety people
come and go on the philanthropic ticket,
and they are spoken of as though they were
poor school-teachers or bank-clerks!
Comment on “The Passing Show,” at Mel-
bourne Majesty’s, may be confined this week
to a cry of wonderment at the “Oriental
Love” ballet. One naturally asks, after
witnessing this weird episode, “Where does
the tender passion come in?” and echo
answers “My oath!” Maie Baird reclines
on a couch surrounded by alleged Orientals,
and as soon as she signifies her desire for
something to be doing a couple of tall male
minions retire backwards and return with
Hugh Ward, junior, in custody. Keeping
him in captivity is Princess Maie’s way of
dissembling her love, apparently. Ward
being duly produced, and unloosed, he and
the lady glare at one another from a dis-
tance, save when she rushes at him for the
purpose of being held aloft. After resting
in his arms on several occasions Maie sticks
a knife into his lungs and liver; then, order-
ing the corpse to be removed, she returns to
the couch. Glaring-eyed Love, which begins
in robbery with violence and ends in murder
and sudden death, seems peculiar to Wil-
liamsonian ballet.
“Yes, Uncle,” gets along comfortably at
Melbourne Royal. And if it were “No,
Uncle,” the result would be the same. The
Four Arts Ball would still happen, and .the
hasty rush of explanation that clears away
all misunderstanding would be no different.
When you come to think of it, many musical
comedies end in a hurry. It is as though the
exhausted plot fell against the chest of the
author and producer, saying with tears in
its voice, “Put me out of my misery.”
“KISSING TIME.” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY'S.
Leslie Holland returns from the war and
charms Nellie Payne.
At Melbourne Tivoli “The Man from
Toronto” is left every evening in the happy
state of one about to get married for love
and money combined. Also he is left in the
same condition at two matinees. And the
evenings and the matinees are the fifth
week.
** * *
The change of programme at Melbourne
Majestic on Saturday brought Constance
Talmadge into “A Veiled Adventure,” which
explains Love as a super-passion only
properly felt by dollared heroines. “Nine-
tenths of the Law,” with Mitchell Lewis
in charge, whisks you out of the boudoir
into the backwoods, and gives you a story
that dashes away the boredom produced by
Miss Talmadge’s well-trained smile. This
week, also at the Majestic, Ross Smith is
relating the story of his flight. At Hoyt’s
Francelia Billington in “The Day She
Paid” is floating about pursued by a Past
that hangs to her heels like a faithful
spaniel. Bill Farman also appears in
“Wolves of the Night,” and William has
to piston his famous wallop to keep the
animals from his wife and forchin. Lyceum
supporters are being soothed by the quiet
work of Eugene O’Brien in “The Broken
Melody.”
* * * •*
A one-woman show in Melbourne
Though generally orthodox in style, Miss Asquith
Baker, now exhibiting at the Athenaeum, is liable
to eccentricity in unexpected places. For instance,
she hangs a study of yellow landscape which is
apparently turning pale from the threatening atti-
tude of the Prussian-blue trees that writhe in the
foreground. This solitary riot is like a night of
“Yes, Uncle!' at
Melbourne Royal.
Alfred Frith as
Bobby.
coryphfies and cock-
tails in the life of a
man devoted to ludo
and gardening, but
Miss Baker is so im-
pressed with it that
she prices it at 150
guineas. She wants 50
less for a larger por-
trait of an old lady
reading a book, but
obviously conscious
that she is less impor-
tant than her gown. In
landscapes the artist
has a weakness for
flat, dull surfaces; and
she loves old, grey
churches with green
lawns, and paints them
with such realism that
one can almost hear
the organ playing. In
her twilight effects the
best thing is “The
River, Evening.” She
has a happier touch in
her pastels, mostly of
pretty young women.
Perhaps she is in-
clined to emphasise
the significance of lip-
salve and the powder-
puff in the achieve-
ment of modern
beauty, but she gets
character into the
charming faces. And
then there is flower-painting, best represented by
cosmos in a silver bowl.
** * *
The quick succession of bright pieces at
Adelaide Tivoli fixes the position of the new
humorist Rex London. He is a sound low-
comedian in the Lauri manner, but wot a
light comedian in the Holland mannei. Lx-
cellent as the impossible butler of Lady
Frayle,” he was less so in His Little
Widows,” and he stood out of The Officers
Mess,” for which Ellis Holland came in.
Hugh Steyne was good all through. \ era
Pearce had her big chance as Lady Frayle,
the strongest plot for comic opera since The
Yeomen of the Guard.” Here, too, Frank
Harvey did some fine acting in the serious
vein. Marie Le Varre, funny as well as
handsome, needs to let herself go when play-
ing low-comedy; if one has to use phrases
such as “a slosh on the jaw” it is just as
well to get full-value out of them as Connie
Ediss would. At the King’s ’Genie Duggan
has continued to earn good opinions in a
season now closing to make way for more
Diggers. Another look at the Pierrot Diggers
at the Royal confirms the opinion that they
are an unusually capable crowd; they are
now moving across to Victorian towns, and
Carter’s lion is_ waiting on the doorstep. The
town is full of sailors. The Palais de Danse
closed one night to allow of a ball for them,
the Renown band has given concerts at the
Royal and the Exhibition,- and picture-
houses are reaping a harvest. West’s varies
from Hayakawa to Chaplin; Wondergraph
from Enid Bennett to ‘‘Huckleberry Finn,”
delightfully filmed. These houses are
steadily improving the public taste for
music. West’s orchestra has long been a
feature, and now Wondergraph has W. Jl.
Cade conducting and Lois singing.
“Wings” : The fireworks display on Syd-
ney Harbor in honor of the Prince looked
tame compared with what we used to see
in France. On dark nights the flame of
the bursting shells showed out luridly, and
splinters were like rocket-bursts; whilst
Fritz, who was a pastmaster at that game,
Contributed Verey lights, flares, red, green
and blue signal-stars and red ground-flares
to the general effect. On the morning of
August 23, 1918, when the operations com-
menced in the darkness before the dawn,
there was an exhibition on the Aussie front
that made the pyrotechnic effort on the
harbor look like a kid’s show in the back-
yard. Fritz had flung so many incendiary
bombs and red ground-flares over that the
airscape was one red glow, and our barrage,
falling over the Hun, was a bursting lino
of rockets, flower-pots, catherine-wheels and
Roman candles. Getting the wind up, the
enemy hoisted his SOS signals, and colored
comets were everywhere, while starshells shot
up in hundreds, and the bubbling lines of
“tracer” bullets, searching for aeroplanes,
intrigued the eye. It seemed as if the whole
world was a bundle of fireworks, and w r as
going off simultaneously. But in spite of
the illumination, the steady advance of our
men could be plainly traced —a blotted line
of shadows moving in the red glare of the
ground-flares; and huge shapes of tanks
could be seen surging forward also. “Battle’s
magnificently stern array” never had a
grander setting, but I don’t think the Hun
appreciated it much.


SPECIAL VALUES
R&cquets
in British-made
Si
,w
kj
3
Y
it
c\
One of the satisfactions of dealing with
Murdoch’s is that you have only to
pick out the Racquet that suits you in
the matter of grip and balance. You
may depend on the frame and string-
ing being right—when buying at
Murdoch’s.
Here are a few special lines, moder-
ately priced—all British-made :
“Eclipse” Racquet .... 15/6
“Forward” Racquet . . 20/-
“Tournament” Racquet 25/-
“Invicta” Racquet .... 37/6
TENNIS BALLS.
“Crown Imperial” Tennis Balls,
reliable English make—
-2/9 each, 31/- per doz.
WE PAY THE POSTAGE.
Mail your order direct to Desk R —it
will receive immediate attention.
MURDOCH’S
in Park St. Ltd., Sydney
The World’s Largest Men’s and
Boys’ Wear Store.
10-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
BRITISH-MADE
I(MNCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
FROM
416
EACH
Columbia
Records %
FROM
416
EACH.
SOME FINE COLUMBIA RECORDS
From Supplement No. 44. Now on Sale
12-inch Single-sided, 8/6 each.
7205
i IjU Boheine: “Che gelida manina” (Your tiny hands are frozen). (Puccini).
( In Italian Tom Burke, tenor
7223
S Waltz Song, from “Tom Jones” (Taylor and German) with Orchestra.
( Elsa Stralia, soprano
7324
J Pagliacci:
I
(Leoncavallo). In with orchestra.
Kiccarrio Straeciari. baritone
tone
‘Prologue’ 1
12-inch Double-sided, 8/6 each.
L 1335
) Introduction and Rondo Capriccioso. In Two farts.
( conducted by Hamilton Harty Daisy
With Orchestra
Kennedy, violin
Li 1331
j Mozart Quartette, No. 15, Part 8
l Part 4: “Allegro assei”
: “Adagio.” .London String Quartet
London String Quartet
L 1332
| Cavallerla Rusticana (Mascagni): “Stay., Stay, Turiddu."
•I l)uet—Rosina Buckman anil
[ “Mother, You Know the Story”
Maurice JD’Oisly
Rosina Bnckman
1,1884
j Otello (Verdi) —(a) Otello’* Monologue, Act 3 Frank Mulling*
| Otello (Verdi) (b) Death of Otello. (In English) Frank Mulling*
12-inch Double-sided, 6/6 each.
751
j Ballet Suite “Aseanio” (Saint-Saens), Part X.. .Band of H.M. Grenadier Guards
( Ballet Suite “Aseanio/* Part 2 Band of H.M. Grenadier Guards
753
| Fantasy Scenes from an Eastern Romance (Hamilton Harty).
! (1) The Laughing Juggler. (2) A Dancer’s Reverie.
t Hamilton Harty conducting the Court Symphony Orchestra
75*
Fantasy Scenes front an Eastern Romance. (Hamilton Harty).
(3) Lonely in Moonlight. (4) In the Slave Market.
Hamilton Hart.v conducting the Court Symphony Orcliesti-a
757
j The Hills of Donegal (O'Reilly and Sanderson) Miss Carrie Herwin
(Guide Me to the Light (Tescheniacher and Squire Miss Carrie Hervvin
758
j Henry Conies Home Late
( Just Chatter
Maidie Hope and Fred Duprez
Malsie Cray and Fred Duprez
10-inch Double-sided, 4/6 each.
2858
2893
2897
j Ea Oarde Repuhlicaine March (YVinson) National Military Band
( Sharpshooters’ March (E. Brown) National Military Band
j Levin sky at tire Wedding , Part 3 Julian Bose
l Levinsky at tlie Wedding:, Part 4 Julian Bose
jDa Paloma (The Dove). (Yradier) Hawaiian-Guitars & Ukulele Trio
I Valse Bleue (Margis) Hawaiian Guitars & Ukulele Trip
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS-
SIDNEY, N.S.W.—Grafonola, Ltd.. Daking House, Rawson Place.
MELBOCRNE, VIC., and TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Pty ,
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd.. Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd.. Customs Street.
WELLINGTON. N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter. Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 243 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —AVebley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
3;:; 1 1
m
f7#-/r/crs
mXT. I
temm
Special Cast Steel High Pressure Steam Pipe Fittings.
Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London,
as Manufacturers of
STEEL
CASTINGS
to meet Standard Specifications.
CARBON
CAST STEEL.
CHROME
CAST STEEL
Heat Treated.
MANGANESE
CAST STEEL.
Send your INQUIRIES with DRAWINGS and FULL PARTICULARS to the MANUFACTURERS.
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES: ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO., CIRCULAR QUAY EAST, SYDNEY.
AGENTS IN QUEENSLAND: THE AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO., MARY STREET, BRISBANE.


Coco aunt Oil Makes
an Elegant Hair Wash
Girls and women who wish to keep their
hair in nice condition should be most cautious
in the soap they wash it with. Most
soaps and ready-mixed shampoos contain
excessive quantities of alkali. This dries
the scalp, makes the hair brittle and is very
injurious. Just ordinary colinated cocoanut
oil (a pure, saponified but quite greaseless
liquid) is far better than the most costly
soap you could possibly use for a shampoo,
for this cannot possibly hurt your hair.
Merely wet your hair with water and, rub it
on. A couple of teaspoonfuls make a perfect
flood of rich, thick, creamy lather, and
cleanses both hair and scalp thoroughly. The
lather rinses out easily, and takes with it
every trace of dust, dirt, dandruff or excessive
oiliness. The hair dries quickly and evenly,
and comes out fine and silky, bright, glossy
and fluffy, appearing to be heavier than it is.
And, best of all, this colinated cocoanut oil
leaves the hair as easy to dress again as
though you hadn’t washed it at all. You can
get colinated cocoanut oil at most any chemist,
but be sure it’s “colinated,” whjch is not
expensive—a few ounces lasting a long, long
time.
IMPORTANT: Do not confuse colinated cocoanut
oil with cheaper sticky, emulsified cocoanut oils
or other substitutes. There is only one genuine
colinated oil, as recommended above.
Use Fing'ers to Lift Off Corns!
Not one twinge of Pain! Corns and Callouses Loosen and
Brush Off! Wonderful!
Simply Some Drops of Frozol-Ice and All Pain and Soreness
Leave Corns at Once.
X
No bunkum! No bother!
Corns —soft ones, hard ones,
corns between the toes, —
loosen completely and lift
off. And not the slightest
twinge of pain or soreness.
Wonderful Invention of
Prominent Chemist.
This wonderful com-
pound is named
Frozol-Ice, and is a
substance of ether dis-
■ covered by a scholarly
chemist.
Step in at any chemist’s for
a tiny bottle of Frozol-Ice, cost-
ing but a mite, but ample to remove
every pestiferous corn or callous
from the feet.
Apply some drops right on to the heart
of any tender, pain-throbbing corn or
callous. Immediately all soreness van-
ishes, and soon the whole corn. “lock,
stock and barrel,” loosens and lifts right
out with your finger-tips.
There’s no “acid-eating” effect in
Frozol-Ice, but a perfectly non-irritating,
non-inflaming, shrivelling up and loosen-
ing of the corn or callous.
Only fancy ! No pain ! No soreness!
No sting whilst using Frozol-Ice. nor
afterwards. Make a test of it and satisfy
yourself.
As Soon as Corns Begin to Ache Use
Frozol-Ice.
Girls who have corn freedom save a
place on their dressing-stands for .Frozol-
Ice. When corns begin throbbing, give
them some drops. Pain vanishes right off
—corns die!
Midget Bottles of Frozol-Ice at your
Chemist’s.
If Favorite Foods
Upset Stomach
Take Magnesia.
If some of the foods you like best do not
agree with you and make your stomach sour
or burn, producing acid indigestion, do not
think you must give up eating these good
things, and do not, either, make the mistake
of swallowing pepsin pills or soda water after
every meal. Instead just make a practice of
taking a teaspoonful of pure Salix Magnesia
in half a glass of hot water right after eating.
The hot water will force a needed blood
supply to your stomach, and the Salix Mag-
nesia will instantly neutralise any excess of
stomach acid, and your digestion will be
natural and painless. Salix Magnesia is not
a laxative, and its continued use is entirely
harmless, as it never weakens natural diges-
tion. It can be obtained at any well-stocked
chemist’s shop (in powder or compressed tab-
lets form). Be sure to get Salix Magnesia. Do
not use other forms of magnesia for this
purpose.
POVERTY
POINT
MOËT &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“The Boss Cockie,” having made good,
goes to Brisbane with his whiskers bristling-
optimism by reason of the rains. The show
opens at Brisbane Royal next Saturday, and
the quaint humorist who punctuates a flood
with the statement that “the tank’s full”
will speak it to a houseful. Vivian Edwards
and Margery Soper have joined the com-
pany, and another Randolph Bedford play,
“Dandenong Smith,” is being talked of.
“T.C. J.”: I was travelling through South
Aus. with a fearful and wonderful dramatic
crowd. “Uncle Tom” and “The Octoroon”
were our trump cards, and “East Lynne”
the joker. We had no “infant prodigal”
with us, so made a practice of roping in a
local hope and pride in each town we visited.
In Kadina we struck a beauty—the sort of
youngster who automatically limits families
and discourages wedlock; an unlovely child
with chronic sulks and a penetrating voice.
She got through fairly well on the first night,
GRAND OPERA.
JACK: “You oughter been with us when we
seen the Aurora Borealis.”
HEBE: “ Really! Was the music good?”
and we all breathed a sigh of relief when
little Willie died and stiffened. Then Lady
Isabel (Avho, by the Avay, owned up to
17-stone) cut loose in her great emotional
scene. When she sobbed, “Dead, dead! I
And he never called me mothah,” little
Willie resurrected and snapped, “Well, you
never told me to.” Isabel, still sobbing,
forced him back on the pillows; but this
did not quite fit in with the will of
Willie, and the corpse became a screaming,
fighting wild-cat. The curtain was rung
down, but not before Isabel’s golden hair
(of which she was very proud) had been
thrown across the footlights.
“0.P.”: The reason for the Tait-William-
son “friendly arrangement” is apparent in
the Actors’ Federation log. The thing was
kept a great secret; not even the indoor staffs
knew of the coming change. The surprising
part is that Fred Smith and Fink, of
the J.C.W. directorate, were* away when the
deal was made. Wireless and cables were
probably working at high pressure. Fink
was en route to the Press Conference in
Canada, and Fred Smith (who represents
the Hordern interest) was in Fogland.
There will be no £6O-a-week men walking
about with little to do under the rearrange-
ment. All hands will have to earn their
pay in future.
“Old Pot”: Despite all the talk about what
the Australian movie industry would do for
the actor, things are worse than they were
in the beginning. The latest combine offers
them only crumbs. I have seen one of the
cpntracts; it i.s for seven days, and there
are such things as engagements by the day.
Now, when Gaston Mervale began picture-
making the actor was considered. He be-
longed to a stock company on six or 12
months’ contract, and such artists as Arthur
Styan, Patrick, Godfrey Cass, Harrie Ire-
land and Louise Carbasse (now starring in
America as Louise Lovely) were engaged.
Nowadays the faces on the screen seem to
be a secondary consideration. The pro-
ducers and the mechanical folk are highly
paid, while the actors get a pittance despite
the fact that the public pays its good money
to see them.
“Norbell”: When George C. Miln was
doing Hamlet at
the Opera House,
Melbourne, one
night the theatre
cat strolled on stage
and affectionately
arched herself
against the Dane’s
legs as he was so-
liloquising “To be
or not to be?” Just
as everyone off-
stage was tearing
his hair, and every-
one in front had
given the gasp
which precedes loud
laughter, Miln
ealniiy took puss up
in his arms, and,
stroking her, con-
tinued his rumina-
tions. The audience
applauded what
seemed an effective
bit of realism. After
all, why shouldn’t
there, be a palace
cat at Elsinore?
A meowing Tom on
the ramparts would
“Three Wise Fools,”
at Sydney Royal.
Arthur Cornell as the
imperturbable Grey.
be a much more likely apparition than an
armed ghost with whiskers.
Norman V. Pearce, who was a Melbourne
boy and one of the leaders of the Vic. A. A.A.
before he went to America with stage and
platform aspirations, is having his versa-
tility brought under Melbourne notice by
John Maher. Many things have happened
to Pearce in the course of a varied young
career. He had left the stage for the lec-
ture platform in Canada when the Avar
broke out, whereupon he enlisted in the
naval service, and was on a mine-sweeper
Avhen he got his knock-out. Lately he has
been with the Taits’ co. in “The Little
Damozel.” Next Saturday (17th) he will
give a recital at the Assembly Hall —
“Stories, Sketches and Verses from Many
Lands,” mostly new to the platform in this
country. One of his items is “The Turn-
ing of William Carlsrew,” a humorous little
yarn by Harold Hansell. taken from “At
the ‘Labor in Vain.’ ” dedicated by Hansell
to L.S.D., and illustrated by lamented
Ruby Lindsay 14 years ago. If Norman
Pearce is not unlucky he will draw an ex-
pectant audience to his recital.
“T.D.M.”: One of Arthur Greenaway’s
possessions is a letter from Irving. The
actor-knight was about to leave England for
a tour of America, and Greenaway sent him
a leathern jerkin which had been worn by
William Hoskins as lago. Irving wrote
thanking him for the memento of his old
master, and expressed the wish to meet the
giver and have a chat with him about old
Billy.
“Hamfat” : The Actors’ Union is now so
far established that the theatrical manage-
ments, after bitterly opposing its registra-
tion as a union, have agreed to a con-
ference at which the Union will ask £8 a
Aveek as a minimum wage. The Union has
been helped in a curious way. Years ago
imported mummers Avere the toughest
obstacles in its path*. but it chances that
the majority of the imported artists now in
Australia are Americans who belong to the
powerful theatrical union which has revolu-
tionised behind-scenes conditions in U.S.A.
The managements got no kick from them
against the Australian organisation.
Mrs. Snowden, the English Socialist leader,
who has been exploring Soviet Russia for the
British Socialists, found only one bright spot
in it all—the revival of stage art and the
marvellous beauty of the operatic shows,
where one notable artist gets £20,000 per
night (in Government paper money) and his
victuals. The victuals are a wise precau-
tion on his part, in a country where Mrs.
Snowden was offered £7OOO (in local paper
money) for her boots.
“Norbell”: In the “Henry Irving Shaks-
peare,” edited by Henry himself and Frank
A. Marshall, many famous mummers are
mentioned as having played “Henry V. - ’ The
list comprises Macklin, Yates, Ryan, Wood-
ward, Garrick, Elliston, Edmund Kean,
Macready, Phelps, Charles Kean, Calvert,
John Coleman and George Rignold (1879).
An editorial comment says that “Rignold as
Henry had a good run on both sides of the
Atlantic. The mounting was in most mag-
nificent style, though the appearance of the
King on horseback in the scene before Har-
tleur was in questionable taste.” Rignold
when in Australia appeared on horseback
only in the triumphal entry into London.
The Calvert referred to was the Manchester
manager, and it was his version that Rig-
nold played. Cecil Calvert, a relative, was
assistant S.M. for Rignold, under Jimmy
Haglitt, at Sydney Majesty’s, and always
had a warm place in the Big Chief’s regard
because of his name.
“H.S.”: “Advance Australia,” by Father
Kennedy, of Bendigo, deserves to live if only
for one touch. The hero is wounded. The
family butler (Bill!) dashes from the ranks
and addresses his fellow-Diggers thus: “I
promised his lady mother I would bring him
back. Damn them !” To Diggerise a butler
and to Hibernianise a Digger with one
stroke of the pen, as it were, is a literary
feat that has not often been accomplished
in our rough island story.
“J.F.H.” (London) : Marie Lohr’s latest
venture at the Globe, “Birds of a Feather,”
by actor-author H. V. Esmond, never shaped
like a stayer, although Marie herself scored
a personal success in the leading role. The
scene was laid in a country house, and the
characters were mostly unpleasant people.
Except when Mafie herself glided into the
limelight, the “Birds” flapped their wings
wearily—too wearily to last. After a brief
and unsatisfactory experience “Birds of a
Feather” made way for a revival of “A Mar-
riage of Convenience.”
“Billy T.” Some years ago a Melbourne
factory had an employee who was the most
inveterate theatre-goer I have ever met. It
was his boast that he had not missed a
city production in 11 years. He always went
to the gallery, and always early enough to
get his favorite seat, where he could see well
and be near enough for his loud-whispered
admonitions to reach the actor for whom
they were intended.. He had become a sort
of institution: all the pros, knew him and
looked for him. On one occasion when Dam-
pier was producing “Hamlet” at the Alec,
the young fellow playing Horatio with a
lisp had acted throughout so wretchedly as
to earn the deepest contempt of Tommy
the god. At length when the welter was.
over, and everybody had killed almost every-
body else, and the stage was stiff with the
dead, . Tommy uttered his heartfelt wail:
“Good G—d! Is nobody going to murder
the in blue?”
“Dido”: Henry, a friend of my youth,
had been a perfervid Sunday-school anniver-
sary and Band of Hope reciter in his infancy,
and cherished theatrical ambitions in his
adolescence. He had, however, an unfor-
tunate stutter which would take hold at
most unpropitious moments, and this made
his career as a South Yarra amateur a
source of ribald joy to all who knew him.
Imagine my surprise one night when sitting
in the stalls at the old. Opera House, Mel-
bourne, Avitnessing a Miln performance of
“Julius Caesar,” to find in Ligarius, a noble
Roman, Henry, the companion of my child-
hood. Ligarius had to open out with “Vouch-
safe good morrow from a feeble tongue.”
Henry stepped forward to Brutus, opened
his mouth wide, wider, wider still, and stuck
jfist so, with his face ajar for a terrible space
of 30 seconds. Then words came, but they
were not Shakspeare. “And the doctor
said he’d cured me!” stammered Ligarius.
“S.S.”: He was from Gable-end or Goor-
arnboot, where nomadic theatrical companies
drift in on odd. occasions, give a single per-
formance, and fade out again, owing as mubh
as possible. He turned up in the back
stalls of Melbourne Royal the other night,
and made his voice heard quite early in the
proceedings. He had something on his mind,
and after being admonished to bag his head,
he suddenly reached the breaking-strain.
Rising, he fiercely addressed those in his im-
mediate vicinity: “Dam’ if I stand this if
you will! I’m goin’ fer my money back.
Why. gordelpus, this is exactly the same as
they did last night.” And he stamped out
after the treasurer.
“To Po”: It is good to see Billy Hoskins
bulking so large in recent Bulletins. In
his latter days in Melbourne he was com-
pelled, whilst ill, to coach pupils in elocu-
tion, and it was pathetic to see the magui-
“THREE WISE FOOLS,” AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
"Benny the Duck” (John Beck) calls to do
a little murdering.
>
ficent old actor sitting up in bed, in torture,
both physical and mental, while a “bama-
toor hactor” fumed and strutted by the bed-
side, botching his lines. I once saw the
old man scribble away at both the affirm-
ative and negative sides of a Sliaks-
pearean debate. He had been engaged pri-
vately—strictly each leading
speaker!
“Billy T.”: A line old tragic actor named
(say) Rose took a small company, consist-
ing of himself, his wife, their little daughter
Irene, and a small collection of coming
actors and actresses, into Gippsland to play
in “The Lodestar,” Rose’s own magnificent
drama which Melbourne managers, with the
lack of perception common to the species,
resolutely refused to produce at any price.
Rose reported “magnificent business” from
all centres, but eventually the stragglers
came drifting back to Melbourne, with the
news that the gifted combination had gone
finally to pieces when Rose and his wife
took a job as a married couple on a farm.
Melbourne saw nothing of Rose for six
months, and then he turned up on Poverty
Point again. Reproached for leaving his
company he produced his unanswerable argu-
ment : “But, Ga’dammit, man, we Were
offered 15s. a week and keep!” Only those
who have done a true perish in the “smalls’'
know the compelling eloquence of that “and
keep.”
A novel contract has been entered into in
London between manager C. B. Cochran
and comedian Arthur Roberts. The redoubt-
able Roberts is in his 70th year, but is still
worth a salary. Cochran has offered him
a thousand a year for life, and the veteran
laugh ter-provoker has accepted, and will
appear in Cochran’s new production at the
London Pavilion, where 40 years ago he
drew the town with “If I were only long
enough a soldier I would be.”
“Chev”: Farewell must soon be said to
the famous Empire in Leicester Square and
the adjoining Queen’s Hotel, too. The in-
evitable “American hotel interests” which
secured the Leicester Lounge—what thrills
one used to have to see a bevy of drunken
swells accelerated down those narrow stairs
about midnight by the big commissionaire! —
have now bought the home of the famous
promenade where the painted ladies used to
display themselves. Price of theatre and hotel
£450,000, deal subject to shareholders’ con-
firmation ; and as they are to receive the
value of their holdings, plus £1 per share,
confirmation is fairly certain.
THEATRE TICKET.
[For The Bulletin.]
A square of colored cardboard that one buys
Across some counter in the garish day;
Yet surely a swift, subtle magic lies
In every tawdry ticket for the play.
Who knows to what brave flights of eloquence
In tragic poesy ’t may prove the key,
Beauty and wit, mirth and magnificence.
Frail fancy or a flippant ribaldry- ?
To-night Puck dances with a pale moonbeam,
And Love lies laughing in a sylvan fold.
But yester eve above the footlights’ gleam
Echoed the raptures of a voice of gold.
To-morrow, passing with swift sliding feet,
Ogles the shameless humor of the street.
QUEENSLAND. A. GORE-.JONES.
A VERSATILE MAID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We have a treasure in our home;
Her name is Hemma Hann.
She scrubs the house from floor to dome,
And has no use for man.
She only seeks to get away
From unremitting toil,
From bake, and boil,
And mirk and moil,
To revel in the latest play.
She marvels at her humble lot
And at the foolish fates
That scorn the talent she has got.
She washes up the plates
As Nellie Stewart mild and meek,
Reduced to servitude.
She in this mood
la never rude,
But pitiful and very weak.
As Maggie Moore she blacks the stoves,
Or kindling-wood will chop,
Or jovially around she roves,
Accompanied by a mop.
The victim of a villain’s crime,
She takes the baby out;
Her shoulders stout
All cloaked about—•
Eugenie Duggan in her prime.
As Theda Bara she becomes
A terror in the place,
And sweeps away the dinner crumbs
With amorous grimace.
She’s “vamping” me. I do not seek
To change her curious ways—
A maid past praise
And all the plays
I get for fifteen bob a week!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


s
easonaoie Joas
O OUP
D i goer r pi nee
God bless Kim!
m
%
'A
FINE
uaranteed
i/V^
COT LAND
m
iM
0
l|
,
.
gZ
fa
m
V M
'Watson's N°IO was the only Whisky used at the Investiture of HRH
the Prince of Wales, at Carnarvon Castle, 131 3 ? July, 1911


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLOARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern. Sydnej - .
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS CO ROUNDS?
sdf
LEWIS &WHITTy MAKERS
MOST WONDERFUL RESTORATIVE
FOR INFLUENZA, OVERWORK, WEAK STOMACH, ANA3MIA, ETC.
A.B. WINE TONIC
MADE FROM BEEF, MALT, FINE OLD WINE, ETC.
p
E
Pleasant and
Exhilarating:.
(Registered.)
SISTERE
A.B
A.B
HAS WONDERFUL RECUPERATIVE
AND SUSTAINING QUALITIES.
The delightful assimilation of the Malted
Ingredients feeds the Wasted Tissues and
builds up the System.
OBTAINABLE RETAIL
EVERYWHERE
Chemists, Licensed Grocers,
Merchants and Most Hotels.
AKIN OLD KKOS. (Sole Proprietors), 384-386 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
SWIFT & CO., LTD.. Clarence Street, Sydney, Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
IRVINE & McEACHERN, Brisbane Street, Launceston, Agents for Tasmania.
DISTILLERS CO., LTD., Bazaar Terrace, Perth, Agents for West Australia.
Extra freights, etc., necessitate Inland Towns and Interstate Traders to
charge a little more than Melbourne Prices.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
What the books and the public thought of
this yeai s Grand National Steeple may be judged
,2 tact that 1° of the 18 starters were
backed at anything between seven and 16 to 1
at the post, while one of the others—Aintree—was
previously at a shortish price, and had only receded
to 20 s because he seemed to go off-color during
the week, and was deprived of the services of jockey
Mane , mi f hap in the Doutta Galla Hurdle,
lolaus started favorite at 7 to 1, for the good
reason that nothing else in the race had been so
heavily backed with Sandule for the double. Had
u Godbys been as sweet on the ’chaser as they
had been on Bright Plume a week earlier, he would
have been backed down to a shorter price. In the
• I ° la ™ pr ?7 ed a very good thing—with luck
thrown m. The Heracles gelding was never further
, ba^ k ,, tha . n third or fourth, and in the last mile he
naa the lead all tne while, winning by seven lengths
in 4secs, better time than Old Mungindi’s record.
Last year only four out of 13 runners finished the
journey. Tins tune 10 out of 18 got round, but
one of these—Kybas—might as well have come to
£ n , ®t the first jump for all the chance he ever
had. Those that fell by the way were Miss Rosslyn,
Aintree, Oobram (a previous winner and runner-up),
A X°V, S .’ tVooloo and Mountain God, in that order
of tailing. Mountain God, who jumped not so safely
as was expected, looked certain to get a place when
he fell. Yarramlea was pulled up, and Vanitor
who showed in the first flight at the outset, ended’
the question by breaking down. Kinlark struggled
into second place a long way behind lolaus, and
Doiran rewarded the constancy of his S’Australian
friends by getting third, a trifle ahead of Sir Prim
Jhe top weight was, perhaps, the greatest disappoint-
ment in the race, for although he jumped as safelv
as usual he showed none of his old dash.
seemed so thoroughly wound up as the winner!
Norman Godby had got him cherry-ripe, like San-
cJiue, for the Hurdle Race.
* * * * .
The V.R.C. has rarely had ft smaller
acceptance for the Doutta Galla Hurdle than this
e ,r the added money was increased to
£lOOO. Yet a terrible lot of money changed
hands over the event. If all seven starters
had not been genuinely backed Moses would not
have offered 9 to 4 against Bright Plume at the
finish, seeing that Sandule was hardly expected to
get a break on the field this time. Half a mile
from home Bright Plume caught Sandule, and being
once in front Cecil Godby’s nag seemed to put
more heart into his finish than he did when chasing
his rival in the National. The good thing won
handsomely enough this time, and with Saturday’s
success coming after the Demonte coup in the
middle of the week the elder Godby must have
won as much as his brother, who scored the big
double.
* * * *
Battleplane, in the Lawn Handicap last
Saturday, showed another field how to fly down
the Flemington straight six, as he did five' weeks
ago. The speedy four-year-old was giving three
stone, all but 21b., to the three-year-olds that
finished second and third.
* * » *
Looks as though Telecles, an almost first-
class peiformer on the flat, were going to be
seriously exploited at the jumping game. He
didn’t make a brilliant showing in the Trial
Hurdle at Flemington, but he finished ahead of
everything bar the winner, and may possibly have
a future over the little sticks.
*.*•»*
A number of S’Australians “kidded them-
selves” that Epictetus had a great chance in the
Grand Nat. Steeple. The doubtfully-bred animal
(Celtic dam unknown) was outclassed—right out
of it tvhen they got to the last half-mile, but not
more hopelessly out of it than his fellosv-countrv-
man Ferrignite had been from the start.
* * -X- *
Thougli belated, Sandule’s capture of the
Vic. G. N. Hurdle race will help to console
Monckton Franklin” for the loss of his seat on
Melbourne City Council last November. ‘‘Monckton)
Franklin” is contractor Shillabeer, of ’Scray.
“0.K.”: The stable connections of Artil-
leryman, likewise a multitude of Sydney racegoers
who witnessed his defeats in the Autumn but had
not watched him win the Melbourne Oup or race
away from Cetigne on the last day of the Cup
meeting, are now convinced, I suppose, that the
great horse ceased to be truly great when the swell-
ing on his hock first showed itself. The swelling
was only a very small matter last March; and be-
cause Artilleryman could still win w.f.a. races with
apparent ease, people mostly spoke of the disfigure-
ment as a sort of accident and not worth talking
about. He was sent away for a spell, but the swell-
ing didn’t cure itself. He came back to Melbourne
and the protuberance increased. Nevertheless it
was “expected to diminish with work,” as though
the hock of a horse wasn’t governed by the same
natural laws as the knee of a human racer! To
predict that the long-time swollen knee of a pedes-
trian would be improved by exercising him on the
track every day would seem absurd, yet the horse
reporters predicted it of the Melbourne Cup winner.
At last the truth revealed itself, and Artilleryman
was stated to be in a seriously bad way; and
though he may yet be made sufficiently right again
to race, the horse that came striding in solitary
grandeur up Flemington straight on the first Tues-
day in November will never be what he was that
week. His big performance was a wonder. The
field had travelled more than 13 furlongs when in
an instant he shot out with a lead of five lengths
or more. With Richmond Main chasing him the
nier increased his lead. The six lengths he was
said to win by were nearer ten.
The Godby crowd, who had missed a coup
when Norman’s Sandule beat brother Cecil’s Bright
1 lume, got some heavy compensation on the second
day of the National meeting. For the last event,
a welter race, Demonte, was saddled up by C. t!
Oodby, and as the horse had not carried tlie colors
for nine months there was a general impression,
among books as well as punters, that Demonte would
only be out for one of those “gallops in public”
which are said to do unbacked horses a world of
good. The stable money came along so quietly and
discreetly that the commissioners got a lot of
money on the good thing at prices ranging from
20 s to 10 s. Cairns had the mount.
* * * *
Quickstitch, the Featherstitch gelding
trained by Booth at Rosehill, came from the clouds
in the Chester Plate last month at Randwick and
beat everything home bar Chal; and on Saturdav
he again drew attention to himself. Carrying Bst
olb. in the Liverpool Mile at Warwick Farm he
won in good style from a field containing three or
four horses of class. The question now is whether
5® will remain for the Epsom, in which he has
7st. l'Olb., or go back to India, whence he came
a while ago to one of the Oxenhams. Hitherto
six furlongs had seemed about as far as he liked it.
* * * ’
If winter exploits could be depended upon
?? a the Spring (which they mostly can’t),
then White Phast, with 7st. 71b. in the Metrop
would bear a resemblance to that which every punter
seeks., lie won at Randwick last month; and at
Warwick Farm on Saturday he made hacks of the
field in the mile and a quarter with Bst. on top.
But the Metrop. argument is much more strenuous
than a suburban handicap. Urney, who won half
a dozen times on end last winter, was a runner
on Saturday, but stuck his toes in all the way
r ? u ? d ; £ e e 7 ld .ently prefers the simple life at the
stud to the glories of the track.
u*, * * *
O.K.’ : The victory of two-year-old
Fashion Plate at Flemington last week afforded one
™°r e , example of the manner in which the press
assists bookmakers to make a pretence of being iust
wiI s i ho totalisator. In a field of eight the
winner s starting price was stated to have been 60 to
one, and morning newspaper reports spoke of Fashion
Plate as “a 50 to one
chance.” The previous
evening’s paper gave the
filly’s starting price as
25 to one; and no
ordinary punter on the
course would get an offer
of even 20 to one. As far
as the occasional racegoer
is concerned—the sort of
racegoer who is most in
need of the tote to lessen
the sum-total of his an-
nual expense in racegoing
■ —there is no such thing
as a 50 to one chance in
a minor two-year-old race,
even though five-and-twenty
youngsters go to the post.
Big odds are never on offer
to small* punters. Book-
makers practically pull the
public’s leg when they de-
clare 50 to one to have
been a ma.rket price where
eight youngsters are run-
ning. It gets into print,
but to all intents and pur-
poses it is visionary—a
mug’s dream.
JOHN BARKER,
Chairman, S.A.J.C.,
Adelaide.
Although the “Ashes” had been won, and
Llovd, Ben Gronow, Hurcombe and Skipper Wag-
staffe were out of the Woodbine 13, over 30,000
enthusiasts rolled up in Sydney last Saturday to
witness the third test. It was the worst exhibition
of League football imaginable. The Australians
were beaten by 23 points (5 tries 4 goals) to 13
points (3 tries 2 goals), and the winners were
certainly the better team on the day. The causes
of the Blues’ downfall were: (1) Failure to obtain
a fair share of the ball from the scrum ; (2) Exe-
crable handling by the backs; (3) the splendid
opportunism of the Woodbine back division. From
the time Jones booted off the game was slow and
uninteresting. The ’Roo forwards hung off and
tackled like perfect ladies, whilst the backs failed
miserably to hold the ball. Chook Fraser at full-
back contributed six points to the English
score by playing to the gallery. Harold Horder
up to the time he was annihilated played his best
game in this year’s big matches. His 60yd. sprint
along the wing brought down the house, and he
foraged out his own openings, being as usual
starved for the ball by his centres. Viv Farns-
worth was sluggish. Gilbert was so transparently
off that he placed himself out on the wing
and played Junker Robinson in the centre.
On one occasion he was handed the leather a yard
from the Woodbines’ line, but before he had finished
the Cinquevalli act the Poms, had wafted him into
“In touch in goal.” Vest, on the other wing, was
another of the also-ran brigade. Thompson (wear-
ing an infant’s bonnet) was out like Chook Fraser
to please the Upper Circle. Rickety Johnston was
reliable, and tackled solidly. Shultz and Gray were
the pick of the Blue forwards. The Englishmen
were skippered by full-back Thomas, who played
his usual sound game. The threequarters’ star was
Stone: his two tries were splendid efforts. Johnny
Rogers made his debut as a goaler (he notched
three), playing on the wing instead of behind the
pack. Bacon also received a transfer from the wing
to centre-three, and played finely there. Parkin,
at half, put up a better game than his Australian
vis-a-vis. The Woodbine forwards were right on
the top of form. They out-scrummed, out-
tackled and outlasted the Blue vanguard. Their
screwing of the scrums and dribbling rushes had
the home six always in trouble; moreover, they
tackled like tradesmen. “Offside” Gallagher and
Hilton were most conspicuous. The oscillating one
is indeed a fine rucker. Although the game was not
so strenuous as those preceding it, there was plenty
of boot flying about,, and as the result of one
skirmish IV. Richards, the Bananaland forward, was
allowed to leave early.
* * * *
Of their 13 matches, the Northern Union
tourists won all but the two tests, and the fighting
scramble v. N.S.W. ; and piled up 336 points
ag’ainst 215. In the three tests they scored 35
points against 42.
* * * *
Maoriland Rugby League’s try-out “test”
last week saw Auckland wipe out the Rest by 54
points to nil. Heavy rain and sloppy conditions
helped the burly winners.
* * * *
In the eleventh round of Sydney Rugby
Union Norths, their heads swollen by the slaughter
of Mosman the previous Saturday, under-rated New-
town’s strong forward team. Result, a 19-14 defeat.
Because of Newtown’s superior forwards their, backs
were able to show up, Hicks and Fraser being
especially nippy. McKay, Bowden and Walters
also played at the top of their form. Easts literally
toyed with Wests, and so demoralised the majority
that they chucked playing the regular game. Wogan
and Davis, however, displayed grit to the bitter end,
and it was noticeable that the try-getters, in most
cases, broke through the weak wing defence. The
brothers Marrot, Walker, Flook and Mcßorie showed
plenty of dash in attack-—they were not called on
to defend. Lawton’s capable boot enabled ’Varsity
to rob Manly of a well-deserved draw. The Village
forwards got the ball and kept it most of the time.
The ’Varsity quarter-line rarely got going, and the
game became a succession of forward rushes.
Nothling played soundly for Uni. Turner, Thorn and
the irrepressible Mingay battled gamely for the
losers. Mosman chucked it in against Glebe-Bal-
main. The team has gone to pieces since Ilodgins
left, though it possesses several forwards fit for any
side.
In the M.L. Rugby Union team for Aus-
tralia the North Island has 15 representatives and
the South six. The selectors (faced with a super-
fluity of talent) were governed to a great extent
by the North v. South fixture, and they have got
together a collection who are all at the top of their
form. Unfortunately H. Harty, of Otago University,
could not make tb trip; he played the best forward
game on the ground in the recent match. “Ted”
Roberts, the crack half, is making the tour a honey-
moon one.
* * * *
N.S.W. and Q. met under Australian
Rules at Brisbane on Saturday. The Northerners
had all the best of it to half-time, and led by
46—31 ; but in the three-quarter N.S.W. piled on
34 points to seven and led 65 —53. The Northerners
recovered in the last term, but thp bell rang in
time to give N.S.W. a two-points (69 —67) win.
Most of Melbourne’s football games on
Saturday were strenuous scrambles, with the gale
driving the ball where it listed, and the players
chasing after. Carlton met the Richmond tigers
on the bleak oval beyond the cemetery, and, get-
ting an early lead, kept it relentlessly, smashing
the visitors ultimately by 59 points to Rich-
mond’s 26. ’Roy was at home to South on its
comparatively sheltered ground, and a more system-
atic game gave a closer finish. Even as the bell
rang the Red-and-Whites were striving for the
goal that meant everything; but they couldn’t
quite manage it. ’Roy won by 67 points to
62. Melbourne put up a considerable scrimmage
against Essendon, and got within six points in the
last quarter, but faded away just when the last
ounce was called for and last by 43 points to the
’Dons’ 60. ’Wood took things so easily against
Geelong that at half-time the scores were level.
Thereafter the Magpies bogged in to such purpose
that at the end the board showed ’Wood 83 points,
Geelong 41. As affairs now stand Richmond and
’Roy level, with ’Wood a game behind, are moder-
ately sure to be in the finals, while Clarlton, South
and Essendon are fighting for fourth place. Mel-
bourne can still get there, but it will need to
shift itself.
* * * *
“15-30”: Gerald Patterson has justified
the judgment of the keenest critics this side by
losing to Tilden at Wimbledon. Pat was always
over-rated by people who were roused to admiration
by his spectacular wallops, quite overlooking that
hurricane play demands just as much accuracy and
resource as the pretty placing game wherein Nor-
man Brookes is such a genius. There is not a
doubt that Patterson was defeated by a much better
man. He came to the final .match without having
had to fight for his position in the preliminary
heats. Tilden, on the other hand, had had days
of exhausting battles, numbering three such cracks
as Parke, Kingscote and Shimidzu among his vic-
tims, and he must have been bone-weary, by com-
parison with the burly Australian. Yet on the
figures Tilden made his opponent look like a tyro,
Losing probably to Patterson’s service in the first
set, he speedily showed his superiority in general-
ship by kidding the impulsive Australian to net his
returns, and after the first surprise he began to
hammer the famous service in disconcerting side-
line and cross-court shots. For the Davis Cup final
in December, unless Patterson can learn to control
his temperament and improve his ground-play, we
shall probably suffer a record hiding,
'**■**
Mile. Lehglen, the French tennis lady
champion, has had a record triumph at Wimbledon
this jmar. She won the Ladies’ Singles, the Doubles
with Miss Ryan of California, and the Mixed
Doubles, partnered with Gerald Patterson. What
is more remarkable, she never lost a set, and in
the majority of sets the enemy never scored a game.
By her victories France grabs all the lady champion-
ships, and all the other prizes go to America,
Though more numerously represented, Britain did not
get a look-in. The nearest it came to a trophy
was in the semi-finals of the Gents.’ Doubles, wherein
the doughty Parke and Itingscote went down to
Garland and Williams, the Yankee duet.
* * * *
Frank Bullock, the Australian jockey who
rode the winner of the
Grand Prix de Paris,
is a son of Constable
Jim Bullock, for years
the Victorian constabu-
lary’s champion horse-
breaker and rough-
rider, and was born at
aristocratic St. Hilda,
He inherited his sire’s
firm hand and extensive
knowledge of equine
peculiarities, but old
hands maintain that he
is not the artist in the
saddle, that the old man
was. The latter's one
drawback —and it was
fatal —was weight.
The late Warrant-
officer PORTER,
for 40 years in charge
of Williamstown Rifle
Ranges, and well-
known rifleman.
It isn’t often that a pug. makes a draw
of it after losing the first 10 rounds by a mile,
and in the course of the catastrophe getting
knocked down four times. George Mendies did it
at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night. Tingle
seemed to be disheartened by the uncanny resiliency
of the brilliant atom after thq half-way mark was
reached. He abandoned the use of his right hand,
with which he had done much damage earlier in
the bout, and showed a tendency to miss with his
straight lefts. Mendies used both hands with won-
derful effect, and regardless of Tingle’s half-stone
advantage, crowded into the enemy with all sails
set and a roaring breeze astern. If the little man
hadn’t tired badly in the lost couple of rounds he
might have won. Anyhow, it was a great go, and
highly creditable to both performers.
* * * .' •*
The fact emerges from the welter of con-
tradictory cables about Dempsey and Carpentier that
neither is keen on a meeting. Tommy Burns had
to be lured into his fatal bout with Jack John-
son, and Willard was practically kicked up to Demp-
sey. But there the challengers had a keen interest
in bringing their reluctant prey up to the scratch.
Carpentier hasn’t. So Dempsey will slaughter Bill
Brennan, a German-American middleweight, who had
a good pre-war record, but who in 1916 was well
beaten by Herman Miller and (according to the
press) by Kid Lewis in a “no-decision” bout; and
Carpentier will exterminate the ageing Levinsky,
who was licked by Gunboat Smith a year after the
latter lost to Carpentier.
R. Spears, the Australian who did so
well against the Yanks in the recent bike carnival
at Sydney Sports Ground, won the French Grand
Prix (which is the Continental Wheelmen’s Derby)
last week.
* * * *
For the sixth successive year, J. R.
Hooper defeated G. B. Shailer for the N.S.W.
amateur billiard championship at Sydney last week;
on this occasion by 304 in the customary final 1800
up. Seven times has Shailer been runner-up now,
and his only solace in eight years was his defeat
of H. Rumball in 1913. The best breaks were
Hooper’s 151 in the final and Shailer’s 149 against
Hughes in the first round.
*** * ■
Kirkwood showed Adelaide some sensa-
tional golf on his visit to the Seaton links. Play-
ing the best ball of Cheadle and Murdoch, the best
South Aus. amateurs —the local professional form is
not high—-he finished 11 up on them, going round in
70 and 72. The former makes a new record for the
course. Murdoch previously held it with 71.
George Fearn, who died at Gladesville
(N.S.W.) last week, was coach and mentor to many
Australian scullers during the past quarter-century.
He had been a giant among long-distance swimmers:
his best effort had been to cross the deadly Hell’s
Gate at Niagara. The funeral saw the unique gather-
ing of eight world’s sculling champions: Beach.
McLean, Kemp, Stanbury, Towns, Arnst, Barry and
Felton.
* * * *
R. H. Bettington, the Sydney youngster
who got his cricket blue at Oxford this year,
looks like the greatest find that an English univer-
sity has made since C. B. Fry went to Wadha™
20-odd years ago. To score a century, put up half
a dozen sensatipnal bowling efforts, and be picked
to play in the great amateur-pro. match is an
experience that has befallen no other undergrad in
his first term. In addition to his other qualities
Bettington is a clinking field.
A SIMPLE PROBLEM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Year after year the ranks of the non-workers
5L®? y swelling. They wear the best of
c othes, lunch at only first-class restaurants, drink
in yd. bars, and never miss an entertainment worth
while—and yet they never do a hand’s turn. How
do they do it?”— Sun.
How do they do it? When the town
With wide-eyed mugs is reeking;
When subjects ripe for lauibing down
Require no careful seeking,
But, on the other hand, chase keenly
•Those who will later skin them cleanly!
How do they do it ? When each street
Contains of betting-shops its quota—
Places where hawks and pigeons meet,
The latter lacking one iota
Of that fair sporting chance which flashes
Solace upon the fool who crashes 1
How is it done? Ask those arrayed
In splendor born of “tapping 1 ”;
Or those whom ageing ladies aid ;
Or him whose line is trapping
The tourist with a taste for cards;
Or one who some rich youngster guards.
In ev’ry case these shrewd graft-brothers
Do themselves well by doing others.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


Boxing is an Education in Itself —
and a valuable education which no
young man can afford to be without.
It gives an unexpected insight into
other people’s natures. It teaches
confidence, judgment and self-reliance
and self-control. It quickens the
mind and builds up the body. It
enables you to hold your own in the
battle of life.
I Teach Boxing by Post.
Iho instruction is practical, si: .pie and easily under-
stood. It thoroughly explains and illustrates every
serviceable “move” in Scientific Boxing. You reap
the benefit of my many years’ experience and keen
observation of the best “moves” of the world’s best
boxers. Write for my illustrated booklet, “Scientific
Boxing in Your Home,” which gives full particulars,
cost of tuition, etc. Just write your name and
address across this advertisement with three stamps
for postage.
m
We specialise in high-class Box-
ing Gloves and shall be pleased
to supply prices on application.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,
297 Municipal
Buildings,
Oxford Street,
SYDNEY.
(\
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Over the World*
gsd
■ ' •
The Secret of Easy Shaving
O©
©©.
0©
Do you want quick, easy,
pleasant shaves? Do you
want to keep your face
in the pink of condition,
free from pimples, in-
arrowing hairs or cuts?
Then Set your Razor on
a PERFORATED HONE.
Take your finest blade or your
poorest; give it a few strokes
or hone all day, the result will
be the same—a perfect shave.
The holes PREVENT WIRE
EDGE, and automatically pro-
duce a perfect, keen shaving
edge.
TRY THE PERFORATED HONE
If it doesn’t make your razor shave to
your satisfaction, return it to us within
30 days and get your money back.
Sold by all leading Hardware Merchants
at 5/-, or post free 5/6 from
The Perforated Hone Co.,
Dept. 11—123 Sussex Street, Sydney.
[7
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOB
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION *TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 U.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.O.i
SYDNEY.
*•**«*#»
STONE BREAKERS.
Portable Stone Breakers; Portable Bins
and Screens, Crushing Rolls, Elevators.
Manufactured
by-
. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVES
NEW SOUTH WALES—Arthur Eeplastrier & Co.. Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Geo. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND—BIair, Reed & Co., Ltd.. Wellington
MALAY STATES, JAVA—Dunn & George. Ltd., Singapore.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE No. 20.
Magnesia
for Indigestion.
/
Sj
OK
A*
The “High Cost of Clothes
Need Not Worry
YOU.
You need not worry over having to
pay prices for clothes out of keeping
with your income, since you can,
in actual fact, still obtain GOOD
Clothes to Order at Moderate Cost.
“Lincoln-Stuart”
Tailoring
provides for its Patrons a Complete
Range of Seasonable Textures —all of
CERTIFIED Quality—in Garments
Tailor-made in a manner that permits
of SATISFACTION being uncondi-
tionally GUARANTEED—at prices
to suit any pocket.
Featured in our present Display of
Suitings for Autumn is a Splendid
Selection of
All-Wool
Australian
Tweeds.
These Textures in Quality and Design
have nothing to lose by comparison
with materials made abroad, and it is
only by reason of the fact that they
have been made in Australia that we
are able to quote them in Honestly-
made Suits to order at prices from
£4)10/- to £Bll5/-
At'these Figures they represent truth-
fully the Best-Suit Investment in Aus-
tralia to-day. Don’t place that new-
suit order till you’ve seen samples of
our ALL-WOOL, AUSTRALIAN-
MADE Materials.
PATTERNS ARE POST FREE.
Lincoln.
Y
I
Stuart 8 Cos.
PTY.
LTD.,
“Tailoring Specialists,”
244-54 Flinders St.. Melbourne.


■
U A 3
UA3—Box Calf Balmorals,
leather lined, light welted
sole'; also in Derby .. 32/6
Less the Cash Bonus.
FARMER’S CASH BONUS SALE
Men’s Boots Share
Special Savings.
' I r HE Footwear Sale Specials are regular
high-quality lines, selling at the keenest
possible prices and less the Cash Bonus of
2/- in the £. These prices are typical of
values now ruling throughout the "Store
for Men.” This money-saving opportunity
lasts for another nine days only until
Saturday, July 17. Buy now, while the Bonus
is offered and before stocks are exhausted.
FARMER’S, Sydney.
“ The Store for Men.”
' We Pay Carriage. Box 497, G.P.O.
All Cash Customers effect a Second Saving of 2/- in every £ spent.
m
=<
Va
05
Jkroai 9rritaiion
and Coughing
—,so prevalent among audiences during
Winter time, is very disconcerting to the
speaker, whether he be dis-
cussing from the platform
or pulpit. By taking
1/6 & 2/6
wwmtoiti
" IRISH MOSS
For GOUGHS and COLDS
substitutes. *■'* ana '.'
I LOTT
seoasEsssasi
BOKNINGTQN'S
m
IRISH "MOSS
CJX/KT.I •OMNtMCTQM
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust-Proof
Corsets
Wednesday's meeting at Flemiugton was
wet, but crowded and cheerful. Macintoshes
and goloshes covered up the bulk of the
finery. Most of the women wore the favor-
ite one-piece frock under their coats. Mrs.
Alan Currie was in copper-colored sheath-
ing under a voluminous cloak. Mrs. Andrew
Chirnside, in navy, black and white, enter-
tained a large luncheon party. Mrs. Clive
Leonard had a gorgeous rose-pink cloth with
beaver-fur mufflings. Mrs. Arthur Staugh-
ton had rows of fur flattened on td her nar-
row navy-blue suit, and a tight fur toque
aloft. A seal coat was Mrs. Bryon Moore’s
note of triumph. Mrs. Alec Russell was
wrapped in a Paisley shawl with a fur edge.
Mrs. Thornley Boyd, from River in a way,
had her navy suit braided to the last inch.
Dr. St. Clair Stewart’s bride had smart,
copper-colored cloth. Mrs. Colin Frazer
brightened the wintry outlook with wine-
red tailorings. Mrs* Roy Greene looked
cosy in blue velvet. Mrs. Talbot (Tas.)
wrapped a big scarf of skunk fur round her
navy frock. Mrs. McAdam, just back from
motor-jaunting, smuggled into a huge motor-
coat. And Doris McKinnon wore an aero-
plane sort of toque above pleated tailorings
and furs.
Mrs. Mayoress Stein and several other
friends of Mrs. William Buesst gave that
lady a farewell dinner-party at the Grand.
One huge round table was spread in the
supper room, and the guests exclaimed at the
table decorations —native pink heath lighted
with tiny pink electrics. It was a jazz din-
ner, of course. Mrs. Stein wore her
trickiest gold jazz hat, with a low-cut gown
of gold and black. Mrs. Buesst was in
black chiffon, embroidered in gold. Mrs.
Alec Miller Gillespie glittered with moon-
light crystals over lace. Bachelor Dr. Nihill
had a seat of honor near the chief guest.
Henry Weedon made speeches, and his lady
listened in pastel-toned clothes. There was
a fine musical programme as well as a jazz.
Walter Kirby, Nora Delaney and Minnie
Waugh-Orr contributed melody, ( and Mrs.
Buesst played some extra numbers. The
party was carried on to Mrs. Buesst’s house,
whore there are two grand pianos worthy
of the musicians. Norman Lee, the ex-
quisitely-tailored young Sassiety man, acted
as Mrs. Stein’s chief-of-staff.
The Dental Ball on an evening of last week
was quite painless. Collins-street arrived at
the St. Kilda Town Hall with its most pro-
fessional air and its beautifully-dressed
wife, and presently the place was crowded
with happy people. The girls giggled with
delight when crowds of men were forced to
be wallflowers. The dancing-men these
times are as ardent jazzers as the women,
and refuse to lean up against the door-
lintels in the old bored way. The Dental
wallflowers were on the alert, and tried to
book future dances by signals while the girls
were on the wing. That’s a thing girl wall-
flowers can’t do, anyhow.
Mrs. Percy Berry was a magnificent pres-
ence in the chaperones’ booth. Her d6b.
daughter is a beauty. Husband Percy lan-
guished in the shade: he sprained the jazz-
ing muscle in his leg during the Prince
parties. Mrs. Stein was gorgeous in cloth of
gold. Miss Doubleday was an energetic
secretary: her dentist-brother fell in the
war. Dr. Haarbec’s wife looked after the
squad of sweet little buds. The white-frocked
youngsters carried pink native heath to
match their blushes.
When in Perth the Prince _met the band-
some widow of the late Sir John Swinner-
ton-Dyor, M.C., who was killed in the war.
She was Maud Turner, daughter of W. 11.
Turner, of Westralia. Her seven-year-old
son is the 13th bart., and he labors under
the title of Sir John Lodovick Swinnerton-
Dyer.
The Austral Salon world is such a little
world of its own that members have lost all
consciousness of the obscurity of their pretty
little meeting-room. They know its where-
abouts, but a stranger in the land needs
a guide, even when he has the address
printed pn an invitation-card. The Robert
Courtneidge pair attempted to respond to
an invitation to the Salon. When they
arrived at the building where the gathering
of highbrows was understood to be they
couldn’t find the place or discover any simple
means of getting there. So they returned
to Menzies’ and ordered their own tea.
Pauline Curran is a prime favorite in the
intimate parties of the Allardyce family at
Hobart Government House. She is perfect-
ing her jazzing in anticipation of a few
dances with the Prince.
Mrs. Governor Allardyee. of Tassy. sent
out elaborate printed invitations for a
"rehearsal of the investiture to be held by
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales.” Some of these
were sent to decorated soldiers with the
name-space blank. Is Government House
short of a secretary as well as of maids?
Mrs. Mayoress Stein has been re-arrang-
ing the boudoir rooms in the Town Hall.
Some heavy pictures that weighted the wall
have been cleared off, and beautiful little
paintings by Australian artists sparkle in
their stead.
Another dance. The Old Xaverians are
arranging a dandy affair for Tuesday, July
20. The St. Kilda Town Hall got the vote.
That most youthful of grandmas, George
Reid’s widow, who inhabits a flat at Tooralc
Court, packs her trunks for England again.
She lias a son to settle there.
Launceston’s to Edward will
be said at night. * It is to be a people’s recep-
tion, and the queue is to be formed in an
adjacent park. Any Tasmanian disloyal
enough to feel cold in a park on a July
evening had better stay at home.
Marie Hall —nowadays Mrs. Sheppard—
is at the Oriental with all sorts of smart
gowns and hats collected in London and
Paris. She will be in Australia until the
end of the year, and is just off for a trip
to the West.
Alfred Levey has emerged from his pri-
vate hospital and is convalescing cosily at
South Yarra under the care of his wife
and daughter Athol. The Leveys have
leased Jack Carse’s place, and Athol is col-
lecting her trousseau chiffonery. Her Scot-
tish fiance is expected here shortly.
News has come through of the death of
Carl Rogue Luffman in England. Huffman
was one of the most interesting personali-
ties Melbourne has met. An Englishman,
for all his German-sounding name, he was
a writer, a geologist and a botanist of note.
He had not merely been “round the world”
in the tourist sense; he had walked into
all sorts of odd corners and worked there,
lie wore out countless pairs of boots on
long, rough pilgrimages; a mountain in
the way was a challenge not to be ignored.
Twice he walked through Spain; he had
even plodded through Persia. If a place
interested him particularly he stayed on.
working at anything that brought him in
close touch with the people. He knew Aus-
tralia as few Australiarfs know it. He had
roamed the Northern Territory, the Gulf.
Central Australia and the West. He
reckoned Sydney, with its weather-worn
sandstone, the oldest-looking place he had
seen —and he had gazed at some of the most
ancient of the world.
For some years Luffman was in charge
of the Horticultural. College in Melbourne.
It fitted in with his work of the moment —
a book on forestry and plants. While there
he instituted what was an innovation at
that day—a practical class for women-
gardeners. He had half the women of Toorak
pottering round with spades, and his lessons
have had lasting effect.
When he left Australia his work took him
to Spain. Finished for the moment with
botanic and forestry interests, he spent his
time among monasteries and other homes of
peace for the material of another book.
Joan Weigall, of this picture, is causing
a small sensation
in artistic circles
Though she is very
young there is orig-
inality and breadth
of treatment in hex-
paintings. She has
caught the spirit
of the sunlit Aus-
tralian bush, and is
on terms of intimacy
with g u m-t ree s.
Decoration, of Col-
lins-street, is hang-
ing a show of her
work this week and
next. Joan belongs
to the a’Beckett
family tree, which
has various artists
sprouting from it.
Mclnnes is her teacher.
Herbert Neale, sec. to many Vic. Agents
in London, has come to have a first look at
this cpuntry. Though appointed a junior clerk
when Murray Smith was Agent-General 35
years ago, he seems more lijce a Cornstalk
who has been in the Cold Country for a few
years than an Englishman who is here for
the first time. Plis personality will carry
him a long way. He gives the impression
that he is the kind of man who would do
his work well in the daytime and then enjoy
a night-out.
Bodices are now not merely cut low for
evening gowns; they are cut out. But ladies
conscious of their uncovered condition above
board are making concessions to Mrs.
Grundy in the shape of small coleoptera.
dragon-flies and moths painted on their bare
skin. Or you can buy the insect on a
transfer, and glue him to your hide. At*
Melbourne Majesty’s on the. opening night
of “The Passing Show,” a smart foreign
dame had a “real” golden beetle adjacent
to her spine. The danger of the practice
was made apparent at a crowded St. Kilda
jazz the other night, when the lady and
her gentle came from a brief respite amid
the greenei’y, and joined the trippers on the
floor, the male element displaying on his
chin quite a bright set-off from the gaudy
insect on the lady’s shoulder.
Christine Asquith Baker calls for notice
as a Victorian artist whose work has been
hung in most distinguished company abroad.
Among her oi-iginal
portraits in oils the
most strikingly
effective shows an
elderly lady in black
seated amidst low-
toned surroundings
and labelled “A
Quiet Morning.”
Miss Asquith Baker
has taken her art
very seriously, and
acquired proficiency
in various lines. She
exhibits landscapes
in water-color, por-
traits in pastel,
studies in still life
and copies of old
masters, which last
ai-e not the least
interesting things on the walls of the Upper
Athenffiuin Hall just now.
About £10Q,t)00 is to be spent by Mel-
bourne Hotels, Ltd., which has bought the
Grand and the White Hart alongside, to
make the biggest caravansary in this capital.
Monash (chairman), Granville Ryx-ie, Mur-
doeh (the Sydney mei'cer), Arthur Rickard
(the chief promoter) and Joseph Chaleyer
(Melbourne) are the directors. The pro-
moters have taken up all the ordinary shares,
and the public will be invited in on some
other flooi*, if at all.
The Oriental staff, which helped the jazz
dinner for the City Newsboys, was rewarded
by Miss Mcßae with a dance the other night.
The evening was occasionally interrupted
by mixsic, Walter Kirby disclosing his family
of chins in a beautiful Italian ballad .that
won the chefs heart. At the conclusion of
the song the two artists bowed profoundly
to one another, apparently in recognition of
their necessity to one another’s happiness.
Adelaide reviews the week: —
Sinoe the arrival of the Renown and the Australian
Fleet the social roundabout has been spinning gaily.
His Ex. has been indisposed, but his dame has
worked hard, and is rapidly becoming a popular
figure. The streets are now almost unrecognisable
in their gala frills, and the Town Hall has its
balcony filled with heraldic puzzles, above which sway
strange futuristic lanterns of yellow and purple. It’s
a wild color mixture.
A number of matrons entertained, the sailors at a
social and dance at the Exhibition. Invitations
were broadcasted among the girls, and all the Best
People turned up to help, Lady Weigall putting in
a brief appearance. One of the Renown men was
appointed M.C., and under his stern guidance the
guests partnered up and did the most intricate
marching evolutions, finishing up with a wild lancers.
On Friday the grateful mariners gave a return ball.
The Hackett lady assisted them to issue the invita-
tions, and the resulting party was particularly
cheery.
The officers have been present at a number of
dances given in their honor. The Gleri Legoes gave
a small and ,early. Josiah Symon and his dame
invited a cheery crowd to their country house at
Upper Sturt. Son Oscar is in the Navy, and
there are a crowd of particularly nice daughters, so
the show given at Manoah was well worth the long
motor drive.
The dance of the week was given at the Palais de
Danse on Friday by the brightest social lights,
organised by Mayoress Hackett. His Ex. and Lady
Weigall, the latter in white satin and wonderful
diamonds, looked in for a while, but left early. Per-
haps the intense cold drove them away. Four small
radiators attempted to warm the huge place and
failed dismally; most of the guests huddled into
coats between the dances. The supper was served
in two marquees, but the cold soon drove the shiver-
ing crowd back into the slightly less frigid atmos-
phere of the ballroom. Hostess-in-chief Hackett wore
an amethyst gown bunched up very short. Among the
well-dressed women Mrs. Harry Dutton and Mrs.
Julian Ayers looked noticeably fair and distinguished,
both wearing gold laurel wreaths; and Roma Clarke
was striking in silver and a wreath of green.
On Thursday evening sailors and officers poured
into the Cheer-Up Hut to witness the cutting of
the “lucky cake” which the Society had made for the
men of the Fleet. Small Priscilla Weigall,- dressed
as a fairy, and accompanied by proud parents, did
the cutting and made a small speech that brought
down the house. The Hut is crowded from early
morning to closing time.
In a transport of loyal emotion Adelaide Register
printed two cuts of the Prince and his royal pro-
genitor the other day, and announced that “the
facial resemblance between the Prince and his father
is very evident in this youthful portrait of the
King... .Presumably it had been thoroughly cowed
or exhausted with fighting in the pit.” A horrified
. impression that fhe Register had turned Bolshevik
was dispelled” next day try the agitated explanation
that “the brief paragraph which invited the reader
to notice the similarity was transposed in such a
way as to interrupt the continuity of an exciting
story about a kangaroo hunt.” And so Adelaide ,is
itself again.
Mrs. Helen Mantegani, S.A.’s oldest surviving
pioneer, had a birthday (the 9oth) on July 6. She
arrived in 1836, before the proclamation of the
province; her father, Robert Thomas, founded the
Register.
Died in England, Mrs. Cavenagh-Mainwaring, whose
husband, Wentworth Cavenagh, was a Minister in
v the distant Strangways and Ayers Governments.
Through the death of a brother in 1891 Cavenagh
acquired Whitmore Hall, a Staffordshire estate, ami
the ancestral name of Mainwaring, but did not
live long to enjoy them. There are five daughters
and three sons.
Paul Pincus made Myrtle Harris bis own
the other day, and they are now honeymoon-
ing on a glacier in easy reach of Katoomba.
The pair were knotted by the Rev. J. Dang-
low at YVickliffe .Cafe. St. Kilda, where
Myrtle’s people uncorked some of the Best
to help a heavy menu to its doom. The
bride was a picture in white satin with
Niagaras of Brussels lace dashing down
the bodice into panniers of foam, and her
retinue was arrayed in pale mauve and pink.
Reported that Lady Doughty (once
Eugenia Stone and “Tryphena” of this page)
has been seen looking thoughtfully at orange-
trees in blossom; but if her thoughts trip
that way the terms of the late Sir George’s
will must make the brilliant widow ponder.
Lady Susan Fitzclarence, who was at
Goornbe Cottage with Melba last year, has
signed another marriage certificate in Lon-
don. Her new husband has a V.C., gained
in France.
Quite refreshing to see. the old “benefit"
used in connection with a theatrical or musi-
cal performance. Of late years every per-
formance on somebody’s behalf has been
called “complimentary”; but Natalie Daw-
son, pianist, an old identity of the Mel-
bourne platform, who has been invalided
for a long time, is to have a plain “benefit”
next month. It can’t be too big for her
deserts.
The statement that Daisy Kennedy was
preparing to undergo another operation
seems to have been grossly exaggerated.
Here’s an account of the violinist’s doings
in Adelaide the other day. Three grilled
chops for breakfast; three hours’ violin prac-
tice before lunch; motor drive in the after-
noon ; afternoon tea with old school pals;
visit to the Conservatorium; rush home to
get ready for husband Benno Moiseiwitsch’s
recital in the evening; supper with the
Charles Taits. Daisy Kennedy is getting
fit as a fiddler once again, so her business
management naturally wants the “opera-
tion” story contradicted. Her re-appear-
ance on the platform will be advertised
shortly.
McSweeney. John McCormack’s chief of
staff, and still as full of his hero as he was
seven years ago, tells many good yarns,
whereof the best concerns John’s recent en-
counter with Caruso. McCormack, so the
story or myth runs, sighted the Italian in
the vestibule of a Boston hotel, and hailed
him with the cheery “How goes the world’s
greatest tenor this morning?” Caruso swung
round, bowed, and asked : “Since when has
John McCormack become a basso?”
Herbert Brookes is preparing a full and
veracious biography of the late Marshall
Hall. Everybody with letters from the
Prof, or with memories of sayings, that
would look well in print is being urged to
advise Herbert, or else Henri Verbrugghen,
who is lending a hand.
The Lyceum Clubrooms at the Auditorium
have been gay and festive this week. Most
of the members congregated to welcome
home Alice Michaelas, who lias been in
America for four years with Dorothea Spin-
ney. Herbert Fryer, the English pianist,
was another feted visitor; and one night
John Monash gave the highbrows a talk-
ing to.
Miss E. L. Spowers. the dainty artist
who has the Edmund Dulac touch in decora-
tive illustration, is doing a series of draw-
ings for a handsome edition of the poesy
of Edward Perugini, a member of the Paton
Advertising Sex-vice. Alex. McCubbin has
the publishing in hand, and promises to pro-
duce a perfect bit of bookbinding.
Emelie Polini listens with a look of
humorous amazement to the chatter of the
gossips who know the exact size of her mil-
linery bills. All the time Emelie is that
treasure beyond price to her Aussie husband
—the woman who makes her own frocks.
She is the ai-chitect of her dresses off and
on the stage.
The crushing post-war income-tax in
Britain has not scared off the Clive Miller
pair. After rushing out to get a peep
at their native Australia, they are hui-rying
back to settle in England. Clive, who is
one of the Money Miller tribe, did his
war-bit with the British, and elder-son
Geoffrey is acquiring the cori-ect English
“tone” at Eton.


t, \ ,* h '
JgJ
mm
■
■ ... :
■ •
..'V**.. V ‘i» - v ■( L - ' • - &M?t?
t'Ji
, •w* m»* * g§ i
,.’ / 1 . .si
wm
mm
■
** **>»!
"v?
fc *
10
m
mmim? m
ggipfil
* ’TfcV* i
.
masmmm
-~T lft in-, lltfp
ftiilSSsSiSls'i
.5
, ' **& *
«? - : • .v-
-■ ■
•-''■■
; ' : :
' -<•■,■:'my-,'- *••■'*■•"
: .:
■' ' •" v> *•»-'#
THEC -WHAT IS IT?
BLACK and WHITE


Under
Royal
Warrant
fg
A 3 ? J03 0
§U!M
WH °1
CHAMPAGNE
CHAMPACHt
OiarifisHeidsieo^
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
North Pole Pram Tyring.
The patented Pin fastening makes North Pole
easy to fit, and absolutely prevents the Tyre
rolling off.
Cycle Agents, Perambulator Dealers and
Storekeepers are requested to write us for
quotations.
If you cannot obtain supplies in your town
we would be pleased to send you the name of
your nearest Stockist.
WHOLESALE ONLY.
Bennett & Barkell Limited,
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
xanUyjFaiK
SULK (EELdySTBS
dfg
■wash beautifully, stay
shapely, and are quality
Silk Gloves to the last
stitch. With all their good-
ness and the guarantee
which goes with them,
they cost no more than
ordinary Silk Gloves which
have no guarantee.
Your draper
should have
Vanity Fair
Silk Gloves.
V.F. 20
/.v-
The Seasons Come and Go
but never departs the air of light-
hearted happiness from those who
are adorned by the elegant robes
or smart tailor suits of Shave.
Dame Fashion holds court when we open
our show in Adelaide on July 26.
SHAVE ,
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers.
Centreway,
M elbourne.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
David
Jones
Cataloger.
For some inscrutable reason June and
July are the net months for art shows.
Everybody who is anybody in color then
hangs out the sign of the palette and calls
for customers. Surely art shows and the
fire of spring or the luscious warmth of
summer would mate more amicably ; but so
hidebound is human nature that the Aus-
tralian artist likes to get his year’s work on
show as close to Royal Academy dates as
possible. This week Sydney has no less
than four delights for those who prefer their
landscapes within frames.
If Joyce Dennys weren’t an artist she’d
l)c a storyteller. She has, above all, the
instinct for illustration, and her art might
therefore come under the heading “Litera-
ture in Color.” Most of her frames have
children in them—the children of the free-
man, not of the bond flat-dweller—as in-
stance the “Explorers,” where an upturned
table forms the rqking frigate off to conquer
unknown seas or bring back the golden
fleece. Imagine the tenants of the first floor
if the kiddies on the second floor commenced
to play that game! “Sea Breezes” shows
pleasant yuddlesome kiddies as buoyant as
the atmosphere of wind and sea that Joyce
has. managed to convey. Old friend Curly
Locks is courted once more in the words of
the rhyme, and her courting takes a whole
dado to reach the grandeur of her finale: —
Thou shalt sit on a cushion and sew a fine seam,
And feast upon strawberries, sugar and- cream.
She has a sense of fun, and a humorous line,
as witness the elongated male agony of
“Jazz,” and “The Lady Who Had Her Photo
in the Paper.” “The Vegetable Cart” sup-
plies a touch of homely color, and suggests
a Housewives’" Association in full swing.
Here is a photo of the lady by Monte
Luke. She is a Devonshire lass, and studied
her art at the Exeter
School and later at
the Kensington Art
School. She V.A.’d in
the War, and in the
intervals of filling
the hot-water
and polishing up the
brass knobs, found
time to become
engaged and married
to Dr. Evans, of
Kyogle; and sunny
New South is now
her- home. Her
attractive little show
is at the Salon of
Fine Art in Castle-
reagh-street; and as
soon as the rooms
are; swept and gar-
nisliecl after the last Kyogle canvas has
been forcibly taken away by its eager pur-
chaser, Gladys Owen and Alice Norton hang
the rooms with Australian landscapes.
At Gayfield Shaw’s rooms there is an
interesting show of water-colors by Mel-
bourne men McNally and Harold Herbert.
McNally’s brush seems the child of mist
and cloud; he has a sense of the romantic,
and manages to convey the idea that if the
mist would only lift you’d surely find a
crock of gold beyond it. Herbert depicts his
colorful landscapes with a camera-like accu-
racy. McNally started out to be an archi-
tect after he had left St. Pat.’s College, but
a cross-grained fate sent him to a stool in
an insurance office. However, he outwitted
the petulant dame by finding a four-leafed
shamrock; and then Art and he went
a-Maying. The result does neither of them
discredit.
Will Ashton’s show in oils and water-
colors at Horderns’ gallery is drawing not
only the leisured Sydney of private views
and opening afternoons, but those whose
attention to the arts is restricted to the
dinner-hour. The other day. between one
and two, first of all arrived the knitted
flapper, in jersey and cap and scarf, all in
the same pink wool. Then two large women
in badly-fitting costumes —one carried a strap
full of library books; the other the little
box that had plainly held lunch. A slim
young man went systematically to work
with a catalogue; a just-beginning husband
and wife looked wistfully at the red roof-
trees nestling above the bays; middle-aged
men mooched about with quiet pleasure be-
fore the light and shade of the oils. A
youngster with a mop of black curls dis-
missed the water-colors with a flick of the
eyelash, and swooping upon the pink woollen
flapper swept her in a torrent of words
along the line of oils. “Neutral Bay and
“The White Boat” pleased her most, and
somehow you felt that her views and the
slim young man’s would prove interesting.
"Twenty-five to” she said suddenly to Pink
Jersey. “If we run we’ll just do it by the
quarter.”
Two recent deaths indicate how closely
the older generation of wealthy Sydneyites
are connected by marriage. Edward Deas-
Thomson, who passed out in Darlinghurst,
married a Miss Lawson, a grand-daughter
of the explorer. W. O. Gilchrist, who left
half a million sterling in London, married
a sister of Edward Knox; and Adrian
Knox’s wife is W. F. Lawson’s sister. V il-
liain Campbell spoused Miss Deas-Thomsoil,
and all of them are related, more or less, to
the Stephens, the Lambs, the Laidleys and
the Dangars. W. O. Gilchrist, by the way,
lias left a brother, John, in Sydney. In the
old days there were two sides to the pre-
sent firm of Gilchrist. Watt and Co. Y\ il-
liam took the marine part of the show, John
the land —and the former had all the luck.
W.O. left no direct heir to his vast posses-
sions—the Australian estate must be nearly
as big as the English one, which had to pay
£128,000 in death duties. His son was
killed in a motor accident.
On Saturday night, after Fraser Gange
had sung
Kitty, my love, will you marry me?
Answer me yes, or no!
the Town Hall became a riot and not an
audience. Long before this the usual stiff
concert deportment had vanished, the whole
big house had relaxed into attitudes of real
enjoyment, and laughter and applause
threatened to hold up the proceedings; but
the singer cleverly turned on the sentimental
douche, and while they were still pensive
the next artist was on—Amy Evans, with
classical head-dressing and a rich red robe.
But it was at the very end of the concert
that the great triumph came. After the
“God Save” the front-seaters poured into
the artists’ room, and musquash and seal
and diamonds and satin purred its satis-
faction against a background of waiting
husbands. Mrs. Everybody and her
daughter were there, and good friends Mrs.
Toohey and Mrs. Gordon looked in for a
last farewell, and teacher Roland Foster
presented a shy Gladys Verona. On the
steps and overflowing into George-street a
great crowd of girls and men, heedless of
last trains or trams, stood waiting. When
the pair came out, she in her handsome
Kolinsky coat, with deep ermine collar, her
arms filled with flowers, the waiting Welsh
choir let its voice go in “Farewell, Fare-
well, Queen of Song,” and as that faded
away the Welsh National Hymn, with
Amy’s voice leading, clove the night. Then
there was “Auld Lang Syne,” with cheers
enough for a Royal Visit.
On Friday night the Conservatorium big-
wigs entertained the two. The dinner was
spread at Rayner’s at the Quay, in one of
the private rooms that have windows open-
ing on to the harbor. After the food and
the speeches had been got out of the way
somebody trundled a piano into the room.
Holman, sen., Shakspeared the party, and
then there was a sing-song, to which Fraser
contributed “Because I Was Shy,” while
Amy Evans sat looking regal in black velvet
and pearls.
Singer Coolahan gives his first concert at
the Conservatoyium on Friday. Fraser
Gange, who heard the Sydney boy sing at
a friend’s house, has advised him to work
hard, go jn for a scholarship, and then,
when he wins it and London, make straight
for the Gange flat in Baker-street.
Vern Barnett goes to Brisbane as accom-
panist to the Gange-Evans combination.
The John McCoriqacks are going to house
the golden voice; their own two children,
the soldier-brother and the adopted baby at
the W. T. Macphersons’ home, Duntruin,
Darling Point-road.
Harry Gullett kicks off next Saturday in
his man-to-man talk on the uncensored
battle-film of the Palestine campaign. Gen-
eral liyrie, General Rosenthal and Colonel
Williams follow, and enthusiastic Charlie
Bean comes in on Thursday with “Gallipoli
Revisited,” and on Friday, which will be
the anniversary of Pozieres, the tall, lean,
indomitable will tell the story of that battle.
Pretty little war-worker “Baby” Marks,
youngest daughter of Mrs. J. Marks, of
Stanmore. has promised to devote all her
energies in future to one member of the
A.I.F. Baby was one of the first to join
up with the V.A.D.’s in 1914, and worked
with the Central unit until the end. She
was also one of the most energetic workers
at the A.F.C. comforts rooms. The win-
ner of the prize is Maurice Sussman, of
Newcastle, who deserves Fortune’s smile
after 4-J years’ service with the A.I.F. Inci-
dentally, the young man has a clever pen.
The winter trek to the wonders of Java
has started. Mrs. Arthur Muggridge and
daughter Enid have their cabin-trunks on
the Houtman this week.
Contralto Kate Rooney drops a line tell-
ing how she and one-year-old daughter Patsy
and small-son Billy have lived most of the
past two years on a farm amid the beauties
of a valley in the Pocantico Hills, an hour
from New York. A little river flowed past
its southern boundary, bringing all sorts of
treasure-trove for Billy from the sawmill
higher up. Last winter the little family
had to leave the mountain home; so it was
back to New York, and then to Bermuda.
Two days’ journey brought the half-frozen
trio to the tropical flowers of Bermuda; but
after the desert of the Great Dry Way the
first scenic beauties that struck Kate’s eye
were the bottles of Scotch standing so
friendly-like alongside the Vermouth. She
visited Walsingham, where Tommy Moore
strung the Harp of Erin with a few fresh
strings; and here, sitting under the cala-
bash-tree beneath which Tom wrote his
melodies, Kate gave a concert of the same
Irish airs to' her small son and daughter.
Further along the road to St. George’s, the
oldest city on the island, the party visited
the Crystal Caves, with the underground
lake where Annette Kellerman did her great
diving act for “Neptune’s Daughter.” The
guide, unless probed, discloses nothing
further about the lake. One day, in the
local store, Kate heard 2251 b. of flesh,
topped by a bearded face, ask for an
Annette Kellerman bathing-suit. The Aus-
tralian mermaid’s name is almost as well
known in America as Woodrow Wilson’s
(they say he’s a complete wreck), for every
woman who takes a dip carries the name
and silhouette of Annette woven on the back
of her bathing-suit; and the girls speak of
their bathers as their Annette.
The Conservatorium gave Marjorie Beeby
a full-bodied farewell cheerio the other night.
The Sydney girl is off to get a London polish
on the contralto notes which Roland Foster
has been conjuring from her throat. Mar-
jorie intends to be a first-night stallite at
all the big concerts and operas, and to wrest
tips from the very
lips of the highest-
priced prima
donnas. The fledg-
-liii g offered a n
artistic bill to her
audience, and sang
Dulcie M. Cohen’s
“Memories” with a
reflective sympathy
that won her the
loud hand. Other
good things offered
were the Purcell aria
and “Blossoms.” W.
J. Goad. Marjorie’s
ring-proven young
man. drew, a sym-
pathetic bow across
his fiddle-strings,
and managed to keep
an enthusiastic eye upon the singer at the
same time. Verbrugghen dashed over from
his concert at King’s Cross to whirl an
excited baton in the teeth of the Conserva-
torium choir that lifted its voice in honor
of the occasion. Caccialli poured out the
soul of Italy in song, and Laurence God-
frey Smith played Debussy.
Marjorie’s dad and mum and big sister,
with a large following of Politics and the Law,
sat in the front benches, and watched with
pride Marjorie’s white georgette and silver-
trimmed froclcing become quickly, banked' in
what looked like a Horticultural Society’s
show. Teacher Roland Foster circumvented
the Fates with a large floral horseshoe. His
pupil goes on to the Royal Academy.
Back to mufti, Major Arthur Colvin, who
owns a Military Cross, and .served at the
London Military Hospital and later in India,
lie returns to partnership with Neville
Tlowse, Y.C., at the old address in Orange.
Deep sympathy goes out to presswoman
Mrs. Fotheringhame, whose devoted sister,
Miss Susie Lewis, lias died after a short
illness. Miss Lewis, a sister of Mrs. Traill,
wife of a Bulletin editor of, long ago, had
been the home-keeper of the little household
at Lavender Bay I‘qr many years.
Back once more in Sydney, violinist Lionel
Lawson, who left to fly for his country at
the end of 1017. Lionel, who went to Ger-
to study at the age of 14, just escaped
internment m Berlin —he happened to be
holidaying in England when “The Watch on
the Rhine” began working overtime.
Major F. L. Crane returned by the Tango
from London via America, Japan and
China. Mr. T. F. and Mrs. Crane and a
daughter have been over from Melbourne
{he is the Crane of E. Rowlands Prop.),
staying at the Carlton, waiting for the wan-
derer.
Word comes of the death, at Sofia, Bul-
garia, of Una, wife of A. A. Elder. British
attache —a daughter of W. M. St. Clair
Maclardy, and grand-daughter of the late
Justice Foster. It is almost nine years
since the lady left Sydney. While in Eng-
land she was associated with the Benson
Dramatic School, and for a time was secre-
tary to Bernard Shaw. Scarlatina found
her only six weeks after her arrival in Sofia,
and she died after a two days’ sickness.
The Aero Club (N.S.W. branch) issued
invitations for its maiden dance this week.
Practically every flying-man, whether Aus-
tralian or Imperial, who got home alive is
a member.
For the past month the cables between
Sydney, Melbourne and London have been
working overtime, the object being to arrive
at an arrangement satisfactory to all parties
which will lure Dorothy Brunton back to
the Australian stage. She has now capitu-
lated, and will arrive as fast as a mail-
steamer can bring her. The greatly-exag-
gerated story of her marriage did not hor-
rify the young woman half so much as some
other circumstantial allegations of the sort
that are inseparable from true fame. “I
met some Australian friends a little while
back,” she wrote recently to this page, “who
w r ere astonished because I looked well. They
had heard I was dying of consumption!”
It was something like being Alice in
Wonderland at the March Hare’s party when
you stepped into the Town Hall last week at
David Jones’s fancy-dress ball. Money and
brains had contrived the moonlight river
scene; and hares and rabbits and woodland
things made merry in the galleries. The
costumes were fresh and more original than
at much-advertised Society flutters. Charlie
Lloyd Jones stepped out as Grandad David
in an 1888 suit, and Mrs. Lloyd Jones came
as Miss Jane Jones, in a much-flounced
early-Victorian dress.
The Women Painters have decided to hold
a fancy-dress ball on Wednesday, August 25.
Sculler Barry has named his-boat Lee
White; and the dashing young woman, in a
knitted golfer that left more of the arms and
chest bare than did Barry’s rowing togs,
christened the boat with a bottle of the best
on Friday, and later on presented the Eng-
lishman with a gollywog dog as a mascot.
In the Education Gallery there is a
collection of beautifully-colored war photo-
graphs. They follow the course of Billjim
at the war, his heroism, his endurance, his
fun: his life for five long years. The two
rooms are filled with the pictures, almost
the whole of the gigantic job of hanging
being done by Chaplain-Colonel W. E. Dex-
ter and Mr. Crowe. On the opening after-
noon, after General Chauvel had given voice
to his own appreciation of the Exhibition,
small groups gathered silently before these
striking memorials lof Australian valor.
Another Red Cross refuge for the Digger
has been officially opened, though Billjim
has been in possession for some time. Dame
Margaret went up to Turramurra last week
in her royal-blue toque and blue tailorings
to wish good luck to the Lady Davidson
Home. Built for victims of T. 8., on the
same plan as Bodington, the home, which
is in exquisite country surroundings, offers
peaceful beauty and draughts of health.
Just now the district is golden with wattle
and ripening oranges.
The pretty wedding of the week was at St.
Mark’s, Darling Point, where Eileen, one of
the three daughters df the F. G. Brownes,
of Lynton Dene. Darling Point, married
Ewart G. Henderson. The wedding dress
was of ivory satin, georgette and silver roses.
Sisters Kathleen and Geraldine bridesmaided
in pink taffeta and black tulle hats. The
feast was spread at Lynton Dene.
This correspondence explains itself: —
Dear Madame,—-On Monday morning, as you tear-
fully informed me, you were in some difficulties about
a letter of reproach to a delinquent washerwoman,
the difficulty being to say something adequate with-
out killing the depraved female and having to incur
the expense of burial. I have decided to issue a
complete and up-to-date Letter Writer, and I enclose
an extract in advance. I unfortunately didn’t have
it with me on Monday. If it gives you any ideas
for reproving or disciplining the domestic staff I .will
expect to hear the results next time your husband
invites me to week-end with him. —Yours faithfully,
Henry llorsecoli.ar.
Letter of Dignified Reproof to Person of
Inferior Sociai, Status.
Mrs. Washerwoman, Madam, —This is to inform
you without heat or prejudice that you are univer-
sally regarded as a missshapen, superfluous and
unaccountable blot and disfigurement on an other-
wise smiling landscape. Upon your inflamed coun-
tenance appear the indelible traces of a life of
crime. There is room to spare on the countenance,
but the supply of crime is used up. In making
these remarks I allude, of course, only to the harsh
and repellent exterior. About the interior I know
nothing, and desire to know less. Judging by the
signs I should say that the founder of the family
came down from the family tree prematurely, and
thus became stunted in his education and cranial de-
velopment, which have unhappily become prognathous
and hereditary. One shirt was missing from the
laundry which you returned, and another was minus
a button. There being apparently no remedy for a
case like this, some form of painless suicide is
clearly indicated. Man and woman and especially
laundress is a mere speck upon the shoreless waters
which wash around the sunless wastes of Time and
the starless gulfs of Space. Cast yourself headlong
into them and be at rest. Be a Speck.—Yours


m
mm
I
£
i
*=v-
. • ■
Bp *
|
r r
■i
«MP(S»
:/'• ’
-w
ppf
■i
»
■ -N
”- ->*; ■ £
H
R
! ilipll®v
.
I .
*' •**' *-
in ■
. -
The StudebaKer is so good
because it has to be
Tiea u tiful in design,
modern
*Mechanically right
THE old-time manufacturer who produced an admit-
tedly good commodity—one that led its competitors
—usually rested content. He was satisfied with the
standard he had reached, and regarded his leadership as
permanent.
One day he would awake to the fact that he was no longer
in the lead. Probably he was at the tail of the hunt. He
had to apply himself desperately to recover the lost ground.
That attempt seldom succeeded in restoring him to the pre-
eminent position.
The Studebaker plan is different. It is the modern method.
It knows that there is no such thing as standing still in
nature or in art, in commerce or in industry.
Studebaker recognises that it has many competitors—of
varying degrees of strength and worthiness. To maintain
its fine position it has to be as good as it is. There can be
no complacence; no resting content with present achieve-
ment. So Studebaker piles merit on merit, improvement
on improvement, to buttress its splendid reputation.
In business , a? in Nature, from, the meanest forms to the most
refined, the principle is invariable. It is not enough to be
good to-day. One must aim, to be better to-morrow if one
hopes to be best.
THE STUDEBAICER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Head Office for Australia: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
C. C. & M. A., Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Tasmanian Motor Service, Ltd., Macquarie Street, Hobart,
Bagot, Shakes & Lewis Ltd., King William Street, Adelaide.
New Zealand: Adams
Christchurch,
Palmerston North.
Limited,
Timaru,
Wanganui
Bill


jms
™aia
he largest selling
quality pencil in
the world
r ENUS
PENCES
f/
z
f
BEST FOB
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN.
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
'///is
GET
OUT
OFTHATCOLUMN
Don’t be a disappointed cor-
respondent any longer. Get
your work accepted and paid
for.
LEARN TO DRAW
BY POST.
We have produced hundreds of suc-
cessful students—many of whom have
contributed to The Bulletin. Send
3d. in stamps for our booklet,
“There’s Money in the Pen.” It tells
you all about the original “Weston
Method” as taught by one of Aus-
tralia’s most successful Black-and-
White. Artists.
The Harry J. Weston
Postal School of Drawing
217 Waltham Building's,
24 Bond Street, SYDNEY
Hotal de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman* Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURL.Y STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat), right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Book now for Winter months.
Tariff from 15/- per day, or from
3*4 guineas per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
r
GARTERS
No metal
can touch you.
FOE WELL-GROOMED
MEN
Socks supported without sagging,
pulling or binding.
Retailed Everywhere
Indents and Wholesale,
Walter Cathro Pty., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
A. Stein & Company, Chicago.
I 1
Situation Vacant.
Grocery Traveller.
WANTED a Man handling Grocery Lines on com-
mission, country districts of New South
Wales. A man with good connection can earn good
figures. Apply early, Box 2137.
df
The Boulia
STOCK SADDLE
A high-grade saddle for the man who
likes a dippy seat. The pads run well
up the thigh, giving the greatest security
to the rider, and the panel has broad
leather points extending beyond the flaps.
The tree is our best “Fouright” and the
fittings included are folded leather girth,
bevelled leathers and solid nickel stirrups.
£14/15/-
Freight Free for Cash
with order to any port
or railway station in
New South Wales.
Send Your Height and Weight.
Our Catalogue Shows a Fine Range
of Saddles Write for it.
K’BURRA Stockwhips
All Kangaroo—Expert Plaited.
STOCK THONGS—-7ft. Bft. 9ft. 7ft. Bft. Oft.
12-plait 19/6 22/6 24/6. 16-plait.. 22/- 25/- 28/-
HANDL.ES to match, 16/6 and 18/6; 1/6 extra if for Oft. thongs.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.,
SYDNEY . St "
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings
are made under the supervision of leather experts, who never
overlook the fact that a Shoe Dressing should not only POLISH,
but also act as a PRESERVATIVE. Only the finest ingredi-
ents are used in these world-famous Dressings.
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
gj
*
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
Bostock’s
Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney
We Desire
to Buy ®
PLATINUM, at £l2 per ounce.
OLD GOLD and SILVER, for
Melting Purposes.
DIAMONDS, PEARLS and other
Fine Gems.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
23 Hunter St.,
SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
SHOULD this meet the eye of anyone
knowing GEORGE STACE, out from
England to Sydney about 11 years ago, please
communicate to “ALICE.”
c/o Box 85, G.P.0., Brisbane.
DWYER, JOHN (formerly of Narrandera) and
THOMAS DWYER (formerly of Croydon,
Queensland), sons of Edmond and Margaret Dwyer
and brothers of Annie Crough, of Carlton, Victoria,
will hear of something to their advantage by com-
municating with NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY,
Queen Street, Melbourne. >
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell U Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
fjk
a
r
j
GBD
r<
W/r,
The
Perfect Pipe
Few men care to take a
risk when buying a pipe.
That is why so many ask
for GBD —the pipe with
a world-wide reputation.
They know the letters
GBD on the stem stand
for the utmost in smoke-
satisfaction.
Selected French briar wood, seasoned and matured
to a nicety, is the secret of the cool, sweet-smoking
properties of the GBD. Other pipes may COST
more, but a GBD PLEASES more.
Many popular shapes.
Made in England.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
.Tames S.: There’s a good “story” in that;
you’ve only thrown us two or three dry bones....
Aeneas H.:, Name and address, please.... Broncho:
Thanks, but that chap’s legs were worn off in an
old yarn.... Ger: “Seedman” is worth better hand-
ling. Try it without the break in rhythm.
. ...Jaila: There are about 27 such tribunals at
work already, and you propose another... .Oliver B.:
“A Way to Happiness” does it: —
Strike hard as ye never did before,
Rich, poor and all alike;
To keep the wolf from the door,
So as everything will glow as a crimson light.
Then the tide will turn for the best, '
The light will forever shine;
It will be true to its test,
So that it will make the best of sign.
Ah, then, the home fires will glow,
And the bright light in the windows;
We will have something then to crow,
Darkness will pass like evening shadows:
....R.L. (M.L.) : Not enough in “Wail”... .Robert
A. S.: A sonnet must be better than that.... Fred
F.: “On the track” doesn’t reach the pub.... Angel-
foot: Yarn fails.... Lesam: Too many words; too
little said... .M.T. J.: Don’t believe it.... Saxe R.:
“Eldorado” not well enough done... .W.W.R.:
Here’s the spirited finish:—
No doubt it’s scheming and robbing that does the
trick,
And that’s how the poor become wealthy so quick. .
So that’s what I call the profiteer of to-day,
A one-time worker cutting down, his fellow-mate’s
pay.
If only God above
Would send down a dove
To educate the working fool.
To give him some sense, which he once learned at
school|
But no, he joggles along in the same old way
Trying to live on his low pay.
Still he can’t see it, he doesn’t stop to think.
He’d sooner argue over his fourpenny drink.
....Frank P.: The incidents in “A Sunday” are
commonplaces set in a great array of words....
Sodium Chloride: A yarn there if you had taken
the trouble to finish it... .R.E.8.: They all have a
nice musical tinkle, but they just say the old things.
The “moving leaves that are the shadowy thoughts
of trees” is the only moderately-fresh item we can
find... .F.D.P.: “The Poor” is very pallid verse....
Jack R.: Verse not up... .W.11.W.G.: You seem to
have no idea of metre.... Harry P.: Cheerful bit
of verse. Pity it wasn’t about something
M.K.F.: None of them up.... J.C.A.: You’re a sad
person... .S.V.D.: Grow up; and in the process of
growing learn grammar.... Mick: “Bill” gets very
near; “En Fin” is a bit thin Arnold L.: Yes,
practise; but not on us R.L. J.: Hopeless....
G.R. (Manly) : Some bumpy statements about night
and the sea are insufficient.. .Cribbage: It doesn’t take
a trick.... Plodder: The lines are pretty enough, but
there is no freshness in them and they don’t
really say anything except that you hope to write
something. Still, they’re a vast improvement.'...
D.L.S.: Very far off... .5.8. G.: Too much bread in
your sausage... .T.0.H.: Rotten. .. .M.8.J.: Not well
enough done, and no use, anyhow.... Olga E.: Full
of bad rhythm and evil rhymes... .F.S.S.: “The
Sailor’s Guiding Star” says nothing much and says
it rather crudely.... Mullen Gudgery: It’s an old
yarn and not well t01d... Gerald B.: “Secret Pages”
is a fair sonnet, but lacks interest.... Sally: Not
for u 5.... Vingt-deux: “The Man Who Forgot” has
some points, but it doesn’t appeal to us... .A.J.W.:
No, thanks... .Aide-de-camp: Verse is not your
line... .Caigau: Not strong enough. .. .A.E.G.:
“At the Treasury” says practically nothing
C.R.L.: Shocking. .. .N.T.N.: Not well enough
strung together... .Nero: Can’t find any sign of
“poetical faculty”... .E.W.S.: Bits show promise.
.... J.II. (Ballarat) : Horrible... .Harold M.: “Tilly”
can’t frivol here....L.L. (Sydney): Very poor try.
.... Michael M.: All right; let it go :—•
The burglar quietly crept
Into the dining-room,
When into the table he stept,
And tript over the broom.
In walked the master of the house
And grabbing him by the collar
Threw him as if he was a mouse
Right through the open window;
Where falling with face foremost
And hitting a cobble-stone
He gave a sickening groan,
Surrendered up the ghost
And then lay prone.
His murderer finding him dead,
And fearing the consequences,
Hung himself like a piece of lead
With his belt and a pair of braces.
P.H. (Westralia): Only about 2dwt. stuff....
V.D.S.G.: “There’s Nothin’ More” is very bad....
F. : No use at all.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.McI.: May be like him, but it’s rough work....
J. : A man with a stomach that slopes down to his
toes isn’t funny—he’s only pathetic... .Woodicus:
They seem worse than the last batch. Dig your
toes in and try to pull uphill... .F.C.K.: How do
you do it? Do you dip spiders in ink?... .H.F.H.C.:
Small and dismal... .M.T.: The son (supposed to be
a late reveller) looks like a wooden wowser and is
10 years younger than his father... .R.E.P.: Sorry
both fail M.J.C.: Out of the fulness of your
heart you did two bad drawings for us. Let’s say
no more about it... .P.P.W.: You’re only beginning,
and it’s a long, hard road....Gwen II.: Gentle lady,
it is very bad indeed. No payment, no thanks —
nothing but regrets II.B.M.: Why draw a lunatic
for the father? It takes all the sting out of the
joke. The dead dog “Laddie” is quite good-looking
and the grief of the children who were bearing up
against the loss of daddy seems reasonable.... J.D.B.:
Stiff figures staring into vacancy.... N.N.: Brother
Binghi did better than that on the rocks M.G.:
That’s right! Keep them small —or. better still,
draw them invisibly.... S. II.: The train will never
it is two miles long and has no engine....
G. : They have an antique look....N.: Can dp
without Hogan and the gramophone. .. .P.L.: Hor-
rible small boy making remark to paralysed under-
taker. .. .F.D.: No modern old lady goes round in a
cap. You’ve been looking at some I860 drawings.
. . . .C.E.J.: Laborious stuff without much humor . ...
K. : Faint scratches and you haven’t got the
knack of putting a head and neck on a pair of
shoulders. .. .J.K.W.: Not much joy in it....E.M.:
Learner’s experiment. The girl’s arm is too long.
... .. .E.U.C.: Somebody put the wrong head on that
wounded hero while he was in hospital.... Z. W.
Street: Fine sample of dotty art in colors
C.E.McC.: The small boy is impossible... .V.M.G. :
You can’t start manufacturing that sort of people.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE,
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegrauhy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
iM'ivate Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd..
Tel. —City 4246, 2, 4, 6 Spring Street,
48io! Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JULY 21,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
i Telephone: City 2282.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,:
lit. (Chairman): WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. I
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, I
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government o{ Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors—Geo. Edvvd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W\ Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; Joseph Hughes, Esq., I.S.O.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
IIIC.VD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE
Branches—-London, Melbourne, Sydney and
tbroilgliout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerioa, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors: HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman ;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.'; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager-. C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 157 Places Throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary . Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. - .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and. other places.
saAiaoaa
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking Dusiness.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital •• •• £500,000
Reserve Fund .. .. • • • • 600,000
£1,100,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 125,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 625,000
£1,850,000.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 88 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADEN1IALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (IM.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST. AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, August 19.
R.M.S. TAHITI, September 9.
The most beautiful Scenery In the World —the Canadian Rockies —is on the All-Red
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New Fork can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara falls, etc.
R.M.S. MARAMA, from Wellington, August 10.
Connecting Steamer from Sydney August 5.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
A
mi
... ...
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
I'nld-up Capital
R«*erve Fund
Bc»prv«i I,lability -
CO
- £1,765,700
3,275,000
- 4,765,700
£12,806,400
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MocKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Ksq.
Charles Binuie, Esq.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq: W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office —George Street. Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
351 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
u
J£anfc or 3ustra!ta
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rafaaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2802 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor July Ist, 1520
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1831.
Capital paid up £2,462,578 2 6
Reserve Fund.. £2,120,000 0 0
Reserve Capital £2,500,000 0 0
£7,082,578 2 6
drt
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Ivater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Bifchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers— The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
Shipping.
INTERSTATE STEAMSHIP SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting).
run DmouAi>
PORT ALMA, MACKAY, BOWEN JETTY, TOWNS-
VILLE JETTY and CAIRNS (transhipping at
Brisbane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and
Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
*OANBERRA;Sat.,
(Omits I July 17.
Bowen) j
WODONGA. iTues.,
1 July 20,
ARAMAC.
*BOMBALA
Bowen)
(Omits
4 p.m.
Tues.,
July 27,
3 p.m.
Sat.,
Juty 31.
Wed.,
July 14.
Sat.,
July 17,
noon.
Sat.,
July 24,
noon.
Wed.,
July 27.
Australian Steam-
ships Pty., Ltd.
(Tel. 6221.)
Australian Steam-
ships Pty., Ltd.
(Tel. 6221.)
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
(Tel. 10684).
Australian Steam-
ships Pty., Ltd.
(Tel. 6221).
Tranships at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
Huddart Parker Ll^
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation. _ . . „ .
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings ' per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.IM. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
"LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney. , . , , ...
The “Levuka” is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
! ’ C 'The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from' Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. Amra,
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street.
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
"THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regularly to:
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCOA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Bvron Bay and the beautiful Tweed River.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND. RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to MUrwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TOUR FARES. —Sydney-Brisbane, via
Byron Bav: Ist, £6/16/-; 2nd, £4/16/6. Sydney-
Brisbane, via Grafton: Ist, £6/16/-; 2nd, £4/7/6.
For particulars apply :
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
Monthly Sailings thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—AII Passengers proceeding to
jAPAII must have their passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government.
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney. \
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address:
‘'lroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents tor:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. liimited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
Blaekheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS. FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
P. .Wfc Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messsgeries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.—at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne. Sydney. Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundabei'g, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


Macmillan’s
Books on
Agriculture, 5
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Science and Fruit, Growing, Being
an account of the Results obtained at
the Woburn Experimental Fruit Farm
since its foundation in 1894. By the
DUKE OF BEDFORD, K.G., F.R.S.,
and SPENCER PICKERING, M.A.,
F.R.S. 12s. Gd. net.
Principles of Australian Agricul-
ture. By W. PATTON GRASBY,
F.L.S., Agricultural Editor of the
Western Mail, Lecturer in Agricul-
ture and Fruit Growing, Perth
(Australia) Technical School. Fully
Illustrated. ss.
Science of Dairying. Bv W. A. G.
PENLINGTON. M.A., Science Tutor,
Auckland Training College, New
Zealand. Illustrated. 3s.
The Story of Milk. By JOHAN
D. FREDERIKSEN, Graduate of the
Royal Danish Agricultural College.
General Manager of Chr. Hansen’s
Laboratory. Illustrated. 9s. net.
Manual of Milk Products. By Prof.
W. A. STOCKING. illustrated.
14s. net.
Farm Management. By JACOB H.
ARNOLD, A.B. Illustrated. 7s. 6d.
net.
Effective Farming. By 11. O. SAMP-
SON, B.Sc., B.S.A. Ilustrated. 7s.
6d. net.
The Breeding of Animals. By F. B.
MUMFORD, M.S. Illustrated. 10s.
net.
The Diseases of Animals. By NEL-
SON S. MAYO. Illustrated. 'lOs. 6d.
net.
Manual of Farm Animals. By MER-
RIT W. HARPER. Illustrated,
10s. Gd. net.
The Feeding of Animals. By W. H.
JORDAN. 10s. net.
Principles of Feeding Farm Ani-
mals. By SLEETER BULL, B.Sc.
Illustrated. 10s. net.
Western Live-stock Management.
Edited by Prof. E. L. POTTER. 10s.
net.
Judging Live Stock. By Prof. C. W.
GAY. Bs. net.
Breeds of Live Stock. By Prof. C:
W. GAY. 12s. 6d. net.
The Pothto. By Prof. A. W. GIL-
BERT, Ph.D., assisted by Prof. M.
F. BARRUS. Ph.D., and D. DEAN.
Illustrated. Bs. net.
Manual of American Grape-Growing.
By U. P. HEDRICK. Illustrated.
15s. net.
Peach Growing. By H. P. GOULD.
10s. 6d. net.
Strawberry Growing. By Professor
S. W. FLETCHER. Illustrated.
10s. net.
Manual of Fruit Diseases. Bv L.
R. HESLER. A. 8., Ph.D., and H.
H. WHETZEL. A. 8., M.A. Illus-
trated. 10s. Gd. net.
The Principles of Fruit Growing.
By L. H. BAILEY. 20th edition.
10s. net.
The Pruning Manual (18th edition of
The Pruning Book). By L. H.
BAILEY. 12s. 6d. net.
The Standard Cyclopaedia of Horti-
culture. By L. 11. BAILEY. In
G vols. Illustrated. Vol. 1.. A-B.
Vol. 11., C-E. Yol. 111.. F-K. Vol.
IV., L-O. Yol. V., P-R. Yol. VI..
S-Z and Supplement. 31s. 6d. net
each.
The Principles of Vegetable Gar-
dening. By L. H. BAILEY. 9s.
net.
Manual of Gardening. Bv L H
BAILEY. 13s. net.
Manual of Vegetable-Garden Insects.
By CYRUS R. CROSRY and MOR-
TIMER D. LEONARD. Illustrated.
12s. 6d. net.
Farm and Garden Incests. Bv
WILLIAM SOMERVILLE. D.Sc.
With 46 Illustrations: Is. 3d.
Injurious Insects. By Prof. WAL-
TER C. O’KANE. Illustrated. 10s.
6d. net.
Farm Poultry. A Popular Sketch of
Domestic Fowls. By GEORGE C.
WATSON. Bs. net.
How to Keep Hens for Profit. Bv
C. S. VALENTINE. Illustrated.
Bs. net.
The Beginner in Poultry. By C. S.
VALENTINE. Illustrated. 9s. net.
How to Keep Bees for Profit. By
D. EVERETT LYON. Ph.D. Illus-
trated. 3s. 6d. net.
Macmillan'’s Illustrated List of Books
on Agriculture , etc., will he sent post
free on application.
MACMILLAN SCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
ABBEY
SHOES
Are made for men who expect and appre-
ciate distinctive appearance combined
with comfort and long service.
They are specially designed and carefully
modelled to give the utmost in comfort
and satisfactory service.
We illustrate a choice Tan Willow Calf
Bal.
PRICE 40/- & 557-
Patent Bals., Dull Calf Legs, 557-
In full sizes and medium and wide
fittings.
Postage Extra..
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG. •
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Gold
Jewellery
Low.
hd
Heavy 9ct. Gold Links,
22/6
In 15ct. from 35/-
Our all-gold jewellery, such as Links, Bangles,
Armlets, Cigarette Cases and the thousand and
one items made of gold are low in price. Far
lower than in' England.
WHY?
The Australian Government and the British
charge, roughly, 20/- an ounce above gold
standard values for gold. We buy gold at
what the Mint and the Banks pay for gold, and
so do not pay 20/- per ounce premium. We
melt the gold, then we manufacture jewellery,
and so save for our customers the premium
others have to pay.
Our enormous output, our large capital, and
fine organisation enable us to produce gold
goods at low, indeed the lowest, price.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
SST S'”' 25 « 25 Hunter St„ Sydney
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
• t •
Opposite Union Qiub anti Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 14/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 4/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all Particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
F.N.
F.N. Rifles are made by the
same firm and bear the same
FINE REPUTATION
as the famous F.N. Browning- Automatic Shot
Gun and Motor Cars. They look good, and are
as good as they look.
F.N. BOLT-ACTION RIFLES,
18in. round barrel, .22 short, long or long
rifle. V back sight and knife-edge fore, finely
bored, very accurate, and nicely balanced.
Price, 35/-
F.N. BROWNING AUTOMATIC,
11 shots; fires .22 short only, as fast as you
can pull the trigger. 20in. round barrel ; -1 jib.
weight. Price, £5/10/-. Packed and
posted anywhere in Australia.
LIGHT-WEIGHT GUNS,
for ladies, youths, and those who object to a
heavy or clumsy gun. Harrington & Richardson,
16-BORE and 20-BORE 5.8.8. L.
GUNS,
28in. and 30in. barrel, fully choked, fine close
patterns, ejector' and non-ejector, about 61b.
weight. Prices, 55/- and 60/-
“BLUE SEAL” SMOKELESS
CARTRIDGES,
any size shot, best powder and wads, 22/- 100.
Ca).
Gunsmiths, Cartridge Makers, etc.,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
M.S. DEPENDABLE SPORTS GOODS.
Every Kind oTSport and Recreation Catered for*
Quality Goods at Honest Prices.’
EVERYTHING FOR
TENNIS.
RACKETS.
(Postage on Backet: N.S.W., 9d. ; other
States. 1/2.)
Specialists in
All Kinds of
Repairs
TENNIS BALLS.
Each. Doz.
Grey Regulation -79 8/(5
Challenge Covered 4 1/4 15/-
Dunlop Regulation Grey 1/4 15/-
Dunlop’s Champion 2/9 5?3/-
Ayre’s 1920 Champion ........... 3/- 35/-
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 1/- ; other
States, 1/8.)
s
Thß. irfV-
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
JCach.
Tennis Nets, full size,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, GO/-, 70/-
Tennis Court Markers 35/-
Tennis Tapes 22/6
Racket , Covers 2/6, 4/6
Tennis, Ratchet 7/G
Gut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets bottle -/9
Each.
The “H” Racket Press 3/6
The “Grip” Racket Pn:,s 3/6, 4/6
Racket Handle Covers... .... 1/-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books 1/6
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils,
2/-, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6 coil.
fgh
BOXING.
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
■MEN’S GLOVES. Set of 4.
real leather, special value 13/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, best tan napa, laced palms 6or 8 0z... 15/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, superior napa, laced palms, leather lined,
6 or 8 oz 18/6
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
6 or 8 oz 25/-
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined. 6 or
8 oz 28/-
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING, napa, curled hair, laced
palms, 6 or 8 oz 30/-, 35/-
THE “LIGHTNING,” made in Australia, officially
adopted and exclusively used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by
Mr. Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker 40/-
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
YOUTHS’ GLOVES. Set of 4.
FIGHTING, napa leather, hair stuffed ~ 10/-
~ Tan Leather, „ ~ 11/6
„ very superior, ~ ~ ... ~ 12/6
„ Laced, „ „ ... . 15/6
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BAND,
Tin. wide (Post 4d) 9/0 each.
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) 6/6 each.
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light,
weight about 3loz. (Post 6£d.) 17/6 pair.
Keep your razor
keen by using—
STROPOLINE, 9d.
TIN
(Post Free).
7
ft
PUNCHING BALLS.
We carry a wide range, including the famous BEACH
Balls. A few minutes each day at Ball Punching will
keep you in good condition.
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, soft leather, light
make, for fast work, .... 10/6. 12/6, 16/6
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine
leather, stayed seams, very fast —
18/6, 22/6, 25/-
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest
napa leather, welted and stayed, very fast and lively—
-30/-, 35/-
“REACH” ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball,
specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and
perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid.
The finest made 45/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for ceiling 15/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather,
double-stitched, very light 21/, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings .. 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete 75/-
Above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Ball Gloves 4/9 pr. Mitts .... 2/9 pr.
Punching Platforms 50/-, 75/-, 147/- each
Ball and Socket Swivels 1/6, 2/6 „
Ball-bearing Swivels 6/6 „
SPORTING REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, Tennis Rackets, Cricket Bats, Skates, Golf
Clubs, Hockey and Lacrosse Sticks, Fishing Rods, Reels, etc., repaired
by expert Workmen. Lowest Charges.
Send for copies of “Can't B Beat” Sportsman’s Guide (B. 1) and “Sure Catch” 1920
Angler’s Guide (B 2). All sportsmen should possess them. Post free to any address
• •
7HJSTR7IWfS GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
am> TOBTiccomsrs
dfg
City Sports Depot
99 KmsSt; also at
Newcastle £ Brisbane.


The Real Remedy for
Backache and Kidney Troubles,
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
Your Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills for the back-
ache and kidneys have
given me such good re-
sults that I cannot
hesitate to write and
tell you about their
health-giving proper-
ties. I have taken
only one bottle and
they acted like magic.
I recommend Dr. Shel-
don’s Gin Pills to any-
one suffering from
backache and kidney
trouble, for I am sure
that they will cure
them, and once they
have used them they
will always keep a
bottle in the house to
protect themselves
against backache and
kidney complaints.
Yours very sincerely,
(Mrs.) M. TOOHEY.
Moira,
Grosvenor Street,
Neutral Bay.
few
*£Z
Mrs. M. TOOIIKY ( from, a photo).
Gin Pills Will Help You.
Tf vmi f«<*l that vour kidneys are the cause of your sickness, your run-down
feelin/ begm taking Sheldon’s «in Pills for Backache and Kidney Trouble,
becaufe as soon as your kidneys improve they will help the other organs to I health
Dr. Sheldon’s Bin Pills for backache and kidney trouble V *hl m^ttw
sssrass.
Stars, £:
them into the human system without obtaining results. I)r. Sheldon s Gin Pills,
price 1/6 and 2/6.
WJ
G* 1 *
BACKACHEKIDNEY. BLADDER,
AND URINARYTROUBLE.S.
t :
rCtlktle'Z*
For a quick, clean shave:
Gillette
Many minutes late you jump out of
bed—your Gillette is handy, ready
for use! No stropping—no honing!
A few quick, clean strokes and your
skin is smooth! Use a Gillette once
and it’s your razor for life.
Standard Set, complete in
leather case
farO/V
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR CO.. CANADA.
Wholesale Agents:—
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., LTD., SYDNEY,
anti at Brisbane.
Uncle Harry.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OH, never let on to your own true love
That ever you drank a drop ;
That ever you played in a two-up
school
Or slept in a sly-grog shop ;
That ever a bad girl nursed you round
That ever you sank so low.
But she pulled you through, and it’s only you
And your old mate Harry know.
“Billy the Link” they called you then,
And it makes me sad to think
Of the strenuous days when it took three cops
And a pimp to couple the Link.
“Mister Linkhurst” they call you now,
And your kitchen garden grows;
And no one knows in your family,
But your Uncle Harry knows.
Oh, never let on to your fair young bride
How a “straight” girl stabbed your heart
With a devilish wire to the W estern side
Where we were a world apart.
With pick and shovel you fought it out
Where the red sirocco blows ;
And no one knew in the gang save you—
But yout old mate Harry knows.
Oh. never let on to your own good wife,
For a tender heart has she,
Of the girl that loved and the girl that lies
In the graveyard there by the sea .
’Twas not for his “manners” she loved the
cad,
’Twas not for his verse or prose,
But the pity she felt for the countiy lad
And your Uncle Harry knows.
The bad girl went where the bad girls go
And I see her dark eyes yet;
The good girl left me her broken heart,
But I trow that their souls have met.
The cry of the heart we send not forth
On every wind that blows ;
You are hiding a sorrow from someone now
But your Uncle Harry knows.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
The King Flea.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IF you know Smiley’s you also know
Charlie Chubb. It is impossible to
enter the old restaurant, with its card-
fiends, chess fanatics, and dingy, battered
furniture, old-fashioned when Gran’pop
Smiley was a boy, without connecting it
with the resplendent Charles. Somehow he
and it harmonised perfectly. Perhaps it
was his clothing, greasy and out of date,
or his tired moustache; or the monstrosity
of a head balanced eerily upon a neck of
candle-thickness. Whatever it was, Smiley s
seemed incomplete without him. It was his
greatness alone that made it a perpetual
rendezvous —his greatness in imagination
and oratory. A lone child at once sug-
gested to him a kidnapping or a baby faim.
The whiz-bang of a bunger in a side street
invariably brought forth a tale of dynamite,
and revolution. I believe he looked upon
the little Jew across whose counter he often
passed his watch as a , rapiered exquisite
straight from the courts of Louis the i it-
teenth. The most ordinary event went into
his brain and presently issued as a romance,
matchless in beauty.
We suited each other admirably.
loved to talk and I loved to listen, \\hieh
is why, no doubt, we dined together seven
days a week over such a long period that
neither of us ever thought the habit could be
broken. But one day he packed his trunks.
I felt I had lost my dearest friend and re-
creation. . „ T , in
“Good-bye, Sonno!” he said blithely. 11l
bring you back a baby elephant with false
teeth. I’m a-going to grow whiskers and
persuade the Man with the Hoe to buy an
invention of mine. S-s-s-h ! Not a word!
Can’t say what it is. Come on ! Another
sherrv before I slither off.” . . , ,
He slithered off and left me to vainly look
for a companion to take his place. Smiley s
was no longer a haunt of mine. It was
dull and lifeless without his golden voice.
I played myself at chess and got eye-strain
through haunting picture-shows for a couple
of months. Then I rebelled. The monot-
ony of such a life was unnatural, inhuman.
So I returned to Smiley’s.
The welcome of Gran’pop made me glow
with joy. He treated me like a long-lost
son. ' , x -J
“I’ll have a sherry, please, ’ I said.
“Make it two, Pop,” quoth a voice, and
into his accustomed chair slid Mr. Charles
Chubb. , ~ , . .
I dived over the table and grabbed his
hand.
“Sit down,” he said coolly. I ve been
back a week and grown corns looking for
vou. Where have you been?”
“Where have you been?” I exclaimed. 1
examined him critically. “You’ve got thin.
The last bit of stiffening’s left your mo.
Also you’ve lost another button. W hat have
you been doing?”
He unconcernedly drank my wine before
replying. Then he leaned over the table and
said solemnly: .
“Sonno, I’m lucky to be alive. I ve been
nearly eaten. I’ve been haunted and I’m
stonv-broke. I’ve ha*l”-
“Whoa, hoss!” I said. “Start at the
beginning. And haw some more sherry.”
“As you may hate noticed,” he com-
menced after recharging the glasses, “it’s
the little things in lire that mostly cause
all the darned livernV feeling. Something
that’s big, such as a broken arm or a gash
in the leg, is not half as maddening as
toothache. Influenza makes you want to
plav a harp among the angels, whereas the
loss of a finger only makes you cuss a little
better when it hurts. Now, I’ve often
thought that if these little things could be
quadrupled in intensity, most of us would
take a drink of something sudden and quit.
Imagine neuralgia getting accelerated or col-
lars being widened by a foot! You’d order
a coffin, wouldn't you?
“Well, I’ve found a little thing intensified
so much’ that my hair turned white with one
night of it. And that thing was a flea
“The invention 1 went West to sell made
Edison look like a Jap match. I only had
to show it in its nice black-and-gold to an
audience, and in half a minute I was wishing
I had as many arms as a centipede has teet
to collect the money with. You d never
believe the way it sold. Buns on a Good
Fridav morning were the nearest thing I evei
saw get to it. And of course all the time
the money in my canvas pockets was get-
ting bigger. . , ,
“I canvassed all the big towns, and hav-
ing a few hundred of the implements left i
decided to swoop on a few of the small ones.
I thus lobbed one morning in I laggabiil. it
had a post office, a pub, a policeman, plenty
of blistering atmosphere and a reputation
for meanness, rabbits, dust and fleas,
gathered all that after shouting for the
publican twice. He was thin and un-
emotional. He listened tiredly while I gave
a 15-minute lecture about the glorious
comforts of the twentieth century—all
of them due to the ennobling, imperish-
able efforts of Science. My implement, J
explained, was the embodiment of that.
Science; and it was nothing but my love
of humanity that sent me out into the
wilderness to bestow its ease and bliss upon
them for three guineas. I had been so used
to being overwhelmed with orders that his
lack of enthusiasm mcfde me think he was
deaf. He spat out of the window and
sniffed.
“ ‘No good ’ere,’ ho remarked dispassion-
ately. ‘The folk won’t live long enough to
enjoy ease ’n’ bliss the way things is goin .
Yer want somethin’ ter keep ’em from bem
a feed fer fleas. Yes, fleas! We ’ave em
all ways. Nobody ever works ’ere now
through ’em, except old Ziffy the carpenter,
’n’ ’e’s maltin’ a fortune carving crosses ter
the graves of the blokes they eat. They re
startin’ in on me beer, too, a.s if they ain t
bad enough when they’re sober.’
“He sucked mournfully at his pipe while
I did some fierce, quick thinking. It was
impossible to leave the town till next day on
account of the trains. And being deter-
mined to get rid of the implements, I patted
him on the shoulder and said:
“‘l’ve got the Furious Ilea Ilattener
right here in my bag. Those it doesn’t kill
it' sends dotty or turns ’em into cannibals
and they get ferocious chawing each other
up. No, there’s no flim-flam or political
pow-wow about this turnout, sir! I’m pre-
pared to forfeit my rights to respect, humane
treatment and civility if I leave a flea alive
in this town.’ .
“That seemed to wake him out of Ins
dismal reverie. He ambled out of the bar
and let go a yell that brought all the towns-
folk up under his verandah. On looking
them over I decided that the mummy in
the museum was a Baby Bliss alongside of
them. Emaciation! Animated hairpins had
them looking thin. The queer bloke ex-
plained who I was and what I came for.
Then he withdrew while I harangued
them. I first gave them Science and statis-
tics. I next dwelt upon their sorrows, with
tears in my voice. And into the final eulogy
about the merits of the implement I packed
a lot of physical exercise that made a box-
ing-school seem sleepy. Sonno, the blighted
bits of fencing-wire looked as though I
was doing them an injury. They stared
solemnly at each other and then at the
fanlight over my head. I let go another
fervent oration, and they just sat through
it like kerosene-tins
“I turned to the publican and found he
w T as having a steep. I spoilt his serenade
with a thump in the ribs.
“‘Hey!’ I roared. ‘What’s up with ’em?
Is the King’s English an abomination or
a. sleeping-draught in this town? Or are
they all lunatics?’
“He grinned sleepily. 4 , ,
“ ‘Yer see. mate,’ he explained, there s
been a paddockful of gents come ’ere an
try ter sell ’em louse-catchers. They ve
had from steam ’ammers to liquid fire.
Naturally ther folk was ’ad the first couple
er times, ’n’ then they said they’d not buy
any more till the gents passed a test. None
of ’em ever passed it, so they’ve got no faith
now.’
“That was something I wasn t expect-
ing, but the determination to sell those
tools was unconquerable.
“‘Test!’ I exclaimed. What' kind of a
test ?*
“He lifted himself wearily off the ground
and pointed at a ramshackle old place about
a hundred, yards up the road. Through the
swirling heat haze it seemed to be almost
in pieces.
“ ‘That’s Mulligan’s place,’ lie said. ‘He’s
dead. He was the first man the fleas ever
ate in this town. The place is ’aunted.
’n’ all the boss-cocky fleas live there. You ye
got to stay in it for a night, ’n’ if yer do >
they’ll buy anythin’ yer want to sell em.
“I decided to take on Jhat test. I didn’t
believe in ghosts, and I imagined the fleas
would need to be as big as whales to get
me out of it before sunrise.
“ ‘You tell ’em.’ I said, ‘that I m adorn-
ing Mulligan’s to-night with my metalli-
ferous carcase, Also that I don t take
cheques for these tools. I want notes 01
gold in the morning.’ . ; , ,
“They dispersed while the tired chap ana
I mooched to the parlor. About 9 o’clock
he intimated it was time I went to bed. I
gathered my traps and with him as guide
started up the road to the shanty. I was
surprised to discover all the townsfolk there.
“ ‘They’re making sure I’m going in. eh ?
I queried. .
“ ‘Tain’t that.’ he replied. ‘There am t
much amusement up this way. yer know,
and they enjoy listenin’ ter the shrieks
and yells of the gents what. go inter the
shanty better’n if it was a circus.
“I wasn’t overpowered with the cheerful-
ness of that statement. And when he shook
hands with me in a manner that plainly
indicated he regarded me as already mori-
bund I thought it advisable to change my
mind. But then I thought of the easy money
and in I went.
“I had been in bed about five minutes,
listening to the murmur of the townsfolk’s
voices as it drifted through the cracks in
the walls, when I got the first nip. I fancied
(Continued on next page.)


Is Backache Wearing You Out?
"Every Picture
Tel is a Story"
f ...0
Ml
[J/'/j
Jl
4 fes,..
r -
Llj
%. l
f
—V v*
I
ET»
3S
fK
DOES any little exertion leave you tired and
worn? Do you feel weak, nervous, “all un-
strung?” Do you suffer daily backache,
dizziness, and sick headache? You shouldn’t! Too
many folks drag along day in and day out, thus
handicapped. And too often they overlook the kidneys
which are likely at fault. Weak kidneys cause many
queer aches, pains and kidney irregularities. But, if
taken in time, kidney ills are usually easily corrected.
Neglected, even a slight kidney weakness may turn
into gravel, dropsy, or fatal kidney disease. Don’t
wait! You owe it to yourself to get well and to stay
well. Use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills! Doan’s
have brought thousands of weak, tired, discouraged
people back to health. Sydney folks tell the story.
Ask your neighbor!
TWO SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED
A MAN’S CASE.
Mr. Robert Larcqmbe,- monumental mason. Lidcombe, Sydney, says: “Off
and on for years I suffered from backache and kidney trouble. I would go to
bed feeling fairly well, but on rising in the morning my back would ache ter-
ribly. The pains were sharp and shooting, and centred just above the kidneys.
I was advised to try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and I sent for some at
once. After using the first couple of bottles I felt better, and five bottles com-
pletely cured me. I can recommend Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills to all who
suffer with their kidneys, and feel sure they will derive benefit from them.”
Seven years later, Mr. Larcombe says: “It is over seven years since Doan's
Backache Kidney Pills cured me of kidney trouble, and I have had no return of
the complaint all that time.”
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Mrs. H. Sturgeon, 70 Marlborough Street. Surry Hills, Svdney, says- “It
gives me great pleasure to say a few words in praise of Doan's Backache Kid-
ney Pills. For a good while I was a martyr to kidney trouble, the symptoms
being backache, urinary disorder and dizzy attacks. My back ached fearfully
and every movement was accompanied with a twinge like the stab of a knife
The secretions were cloudy and scalded a good deal in passing, this symptom
clearly showing my kidneys were very much out of order. I heard good reports
of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, so decided to give them a trial The first
bottle gave me relief, and by the time I had used three bottles I was cured
and I have been well ever since—a period of over twelve months.”
Mrs. Sturgeon confirms the above four years 'later: “My cure still holds
good, no sign of kidney disorder having returned since I took Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills five years ago.”.
hdf
DOANS
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
at first I’d put my foot in a rabbit-trap,
but when I struck a match and looked I
beat a snail in the matter of eyes. Fleas?
They weren’t fleas at all. They were iguano-
dons! You could hear ’em walking across
the floor. And they came in myriads. Much
practice, I suppose, had enabled ’em to re-
duce the table d’hote business to a science.
They thoroughly scarified and denuded of
blood my toes, ankles, calves and thighs.
It was done in perfect unison. They bit
together and sucked together; even knocked
off for a smoke-oh together. They had an
alligator asking for tuition in how to bite.
I found that smoking strengthened my endur-
ance somewhat, so there I sat in bed for
what seemed a million years, striking
matches and lighting my pipe. I cracked
them on the washstand. I tried drowning
’em in the water-jug. I threw both matches
and fleas into it till I thought it must be
overflowing like sorrow at a Methodist mis-
sion.
“About midnight they suddenly scuttled
to their holes. I strained my ears to detect
any signs of their return while I settled down
for a sleep. Then came a frightful wail—
straight from Hell, it seemed —out of the
floor. It was unlike any other sound I had
ever heard. I had the creeps and shivers
and wobbles simultaneously, and my teeth
rattled like a Maxim. It brought visions of
fiendish tortures, of a dozen eternities of
ghoulish torment waiting to fall specially
on me. I tried to yell for help and I couldn’t
open my mouth. I tried to move, to creep
out of the way and hide, and I was petrified.
It left the floor and shot overhead to the
ceiling. Then with startling rapidity it
went round and round the room. I’ve no
idea how long it lasted, but when it finally
sank to a mere whisper I had as much stif-
fening in me as a jellyfish. I had recovered
sufficiently to put on my shirt with the in-
tention of leaving the cursed place, when I
realised with a fright that something was
crawling over the floor towards me. I trem-
blingly struck a match and had a look—
and then my nerve broke. 1 gave a screech
and jumped through the window, and lobbed
among the townsfolk. They were pretty
nearly in hysterics—the first sign they’d
given of having human emotions. But I
didn’t wait. I fled to the station and caught
the 5 a.m. east with nothing on but my shirt.
The publican threw my clothing after me as
the train pulled out of the station, but he
somehow abstracted the roll of notes from it
beforehand. Still, if that roll was 10 times
as big as a man’s conceit I wouldn’t go back
for it —not me, Sonno !’ ”
I paid the account and said good-night
to the room’s habitues. Outside, under the
electric arc, I watched Gran’pop putting up
the shutters. A tram clattered noisily down
the street. I listened as it grew fainter
and fainter in the distance. When its sound
ceased altogether I seized Charley by the
collar and said :
“What was it?”
“That noise in the room?” he queried.
“Yes,” said I.
“It was a flea,” he said slowly; “but it. had
a lOrinch rat in its teeth!”
ATHOL.
Willy Pong’s Insurance Policy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
were an ungodly crowd as they
sat there on forms arranged in a
semi-circle around Willy Pong. If
man is truly cast in Christ’s own mould, it
was an off-shift that created them, when
the metal was cold and ran only in one
groove. In the few eases where the mark of
the beast was missing, the shifty, furtive
cunning of the garrotter looked out of the
eyes peering through the tobacco-smoke haze
at Willy Pong. Though a man’s life would
not be worth a second thought with one of
them if he carried a half-crown in his
pocket, Willy Pong, despite his reputed
wealth, .was safe. For Willy Pong was
amusing them.
Willy was drunk. He was hilariously
drunk. Also, he was drunk on whisky, the
imps of which kept him tittering and would
not let him go to sleep and dream of the
lotus, as would his own beloved opium.
Seated on the extremest edge of a chair, he
smirked and grinned through ragged and
yellow teeth, brandishing a whisky-flask,
from the neck of which yhe liquor dribbled.
Willy was very happy.
“Willy a yell of a fellie!” he simpered for
the hundredth time*, raising the flask to his
mouth and spilling the contents down over
his chin and clothes. “I go long gettie lillie
sleep now. Nex’ week you come long Willy’s
place; plenty ginger, peanut, banana, plenty
evlyting. Willy yell of a fellie!”
Rising unsteadily to his feet, he zig-
zagged liis way to the door and into the
darkened street, still grasping his whisky-
flask. and followed by the guffaws of the
men-beasts within.
The night air sobered Willy somewhat, so
that, on reaching home, from the group
around his door he was able to pick out
individuals, though he deigned to recognise
but one.
“’Elio, Mister Plice! You wantee me?”
lie called gaily to a stockilv-built young
man of dark complexion leaning against
the door-jamb.
“I do, Willy Pong,” said the young man,
following Willy into the evil-smelling in-
terior, where a naked gas-jet spat and splut-
tered its protest at the intrusion.
Tommy Price was an insurance-agent and
a leech. Given a name and an address to
bite on, little hhort of dynamite would
make Tommy let go. Learning that Willy
Pong had the wherewithal to pay the pre-
mium, he had spent many fruitless half-
hours in his company, lauding the system
whereby philanthropic bodies of men make
provision, for a small consideration, for the
old age of their fellows and dependants.
Always Willy had listened attentively,
grinned a heathen grin at the finish of
Tommy’s peroration, and promised to think
it over. To-night it was the same. He
rocked unsteadily on his chair listening at-
tentively to the agent, while the fumes of
the whisky ran riot through his brain, con-
juring up a thousand pictures totally dis-
sociated from such a prosaic subject as in-
surance. But gradually, like a slow-lifting
mist, the foolish grin left his face, his mouth
straightened, the fixed stare of the man who
watches a new possibility unfold itself came
into his eyes, he grasped the sides of his
chair to steady 7 himself, and listened closely
to what the agent had to say. Before he
had finished tne age-old cunning of his race
had come ro the Chinaman’s aid, and he
waited impatiently for the man of words
to cease.
"All li,” said Willy when Price concluded
his argument. “I dlunk now. You come
day af'er t’molla, bling papers. All li.”
* * * *
One night, a month later, Willy Pong
and Willy Pong’s brother sat in conclave
amid the smell of the joss-sticks in a back
room at Willy’s house. A great thought had
come to Willy’s fuddled brain on the night
when he asked Price to call again with the
papers, which he was now elaborating to
his worthy relative. One thousand pounds
Willy had insured himself for, payable on
death, and he was anxious to get the money.
Added to what he already possessed, it
would enable him to return to China, let
his nails grow long, and live out the re-
mainder of his days a true Chinee gentle-
man. Had he not preserved and dressed in
scented oil his pigtail for that express
purpose? In fancy he could already see his
finger-nails three inches long, a sign that
he could do no menial toil—the hall-mark
of the truly genteel son of Confucius.
“You muchee all-same me. All Chinyman
muchee all-same. White man welly big fool,”
Willy explained. “You takee ploper China
ding, go sleep fi’ day. When inshoolance man
pay one thousan’ poun’ you pop-up live again.
All li?”
Willy’s brother didn’t know that it was.
“S’pose they buly me?” he asked.
“I get p’mishun keepee you fi’ day Chiny-
map’s fun’al.” AVilly dispelled his fears.
“Night-time come, you pop-up live, nailee
up co’fin, buly him. All li?”
The simplicity alone of Willy Pong’s
scheme should have guaranteed its success;
but never, when weighing the pros and cons
of it, had he imagined that white men could
be so persistent. First they demanded the
papers proving him to be Willy Pong’s
brother and not Willy Pong himself, and
when he had produced these (taken from
his brother in advance) they cast aspersions
upon Willy Pong and said that they did not
believe he was dead. To have to pay out a
cold thousand on a stinking Chinaman was
the very devil, they said in Willy’s hearing.
But with the wisdom of all the ages behind
him Willy Pong smiled sadly at his brother’s
demise and stood and watched proceedings.
“Poor Willy welly dead,” he lamented, as
the ghouls placed an electric battery to the
dead man’s feet without effect.
“How about trying a lighted candle?”
suggested Tommy Price, as visions of hunt-
ing a fresh job chased through his brain. It
was no use. Beyond adding the sickening
smell of burning flesh to the'other smells of
the death-chamber, it produced nothing.
“Poor Willy dead long time,” moaned
Willy Pong. “I call for inshoolance t’molla,
Mr. Plice?”
“There’s plenty of time for you, Ginger,
when we know this bird’s dead,” snapped
Price.
Left to himself that night doubts for the
first time assailed Willy. Where he had
expected opposition to his request to pre-
serve the corpse for five days, the question
of burial had not been mentioned. Indeed,
on leaving, the crazy white men had ex-
pressly stated that they would return next
day. Disconsolately studying his hands,
Willy wondered if his finger-nails really
would be three inches long.
The next three days and nights were un-
diluted misery for Willy. Far from oppos-
ing his desire to keep his brother a little
longer the insurance people delegated Tommy
Price and another to watch, night and day,
at the coffin-side. A Chinese herbalist had
hinted at the possibility of a drug, but Willy
could not know that. On the morning of
the fifth day the cold hand of Fear laid
hold of his heart. While the distance be-
tween himself and the cool peach-groves of
his native land widened, the ominous walls
of the white man’s gaol came perceptibly
nearer. And he had heard what they did to
Chinamen in those gaols. Tommy Price
kept impressing it upon him.
“They’ll hang you up by the feet and bore
a hole in the top of your skull and let you
drip, for a crime like this,” Price assured
him.
Willy didn’t know, but once, delivering
vegetables at the gaol, he had accidentally
witnessed part of a hanging, and the memory
lingered. Moreover, and that was something
Price didn’t know, he had booked his passage
home to China on a boat leaving in a fort-
night, and how could he travel if he was in
gaol? Like an ant in a whirlpool, Willy was
being sucked by circumstance down oil to,
the rocks of his destiny, and all his cunning
could not point a solution of the problem.
To five minutes he knew when the drug
would become impotent. As he shuffled rest-
lessly on rush-slippered feet from room to
room, he realised that in an hour the corpse
would walk. And, withal, he yearned with
a great longing to go home to China and
become a gentleman and let his finger-nails
grow to three inches.
When the guard came to relieve Price
Willy shuffled into the room with a hammer
and packet of nails. Tears the size of peas
coursed down his cheeks, and there was woe
in his voice as he addressed the watchers.
“You fixee Willy now, Mr. Plice? Poor
Willy’s joss vely angly Willy no go long
cemet’ly. You fixee?”
Price was not sure that he should, but the
relief was not averse to a night off, and
reckoned that if the thing was made safe
nothing could happen before morning, any-
way.
Price took the hammer, and for the first
time in five days Willy Pong had his house
to himself again that night. Willy was very
happy. As he oiled and groomed his pigtail
he chanted a heathen tune, pausing every
little while to regard his hands with child-
like veneration. The occasional subter-
ranean rumblings which came to his ears
from the coffin in the outer room he did
not in any degree suffer to interfere with his
toilet. The lid was sealed and nailed, and
he knew those noises would cease long before
the morning. And, besides, wasn’t he leav-
ing for China in a fortnight?
G. L. THOMAS.


1
’ .1
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
Quaensland Agents-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
H.Z. Offloe—93-107 t-eathereton Street, Wellington.
Vlotorlan Offioe—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S.
©
This is a Food-Drink (Milk,
Wheat, and which should
find a place in every home. It
has incomparable qualities, and
is an ideal standby in the outly-
ing districts where shops are
distant. It keeps for years, is
made in a moment, no cooking,
and is always satisfactory.
HORLICK'S
MALTED MILK
No Shortage.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wa Supplt—
ARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNEKS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
ghd
rt
ms
BtaJTGalvanised anf , Val " Water Fitting; “National" Pipe,
J National Galvanised Casing <the World's
hs
Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd.
Merchants, Engineers & Contractors,
418-424 8 450-460 Ann Street
( pass ms Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane
nearby). - Works: Yeerongrpilly
gzn
ff TTr
f Blf I
rrr rrijn*
BnSaa.llounbaD
ri?*r#rjfc bwrrr urging
ODQDOD
ipDCCGC
aoDboa
?:
It Satisfies the Hardest Taskmaster.
GOVERNMENT engineers scrutinise every detail and
every piece entering into a lorry’s construction before
authorising its purchase. Very significant then, that
Governments should buy large fleets of Denby lorries.
The reason? The Denby has the power without the
unsprung weight of the worm-driven lorries. Exceptional
road clearance makes hauling easy for thej Denby over roads
impassable to other lorries.
Load capacities: 1, 2, 2i, 3£, 5 tons.
THE HALLIDAY ENGINEERING CO.,
Phone. City 4399. 79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY.
Export Department, Singer Building, New York, U.S.A.
Cable Address: “Dentrux.”
MOTOR. LORRIES
BE PERSUADED
to try Beecham’s Pills f All who have had experience of this preparation
unhesitatingly endorse the view long ago expressed that " Beecham’s
Pills are Worth a Guinea a Box This is what people say who have
aKen them who have proved their wonderful value for themselves.
Their opinion should go far to persuade you to try Beeeham’s Pills also
They have cured others and will cure you. They have brought the
desired relief in multitudes of eases-is it not highly probable that they
will do the same for you ? Beecham’s Pills grew into fame years ago as
a digestive medicne of the greatest value. They have maintained their
high reputation through the passing years, and, at the present time, they
are relieving, and curing vast numbers of people who suffer from
dyspeptic troubles all over the world. If you happen to be one of those
who need a tonic, purifying and cleansing medicine be persuaded
TO TRY
BEECHAM’S PILLS.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens.’ England.
Sold in boxes, labelled price (36 pills), 1/1 £ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
RUPTURE
A I'REE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with'this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we state
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is . within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
A*'
Tne Standard Remedy which has ontlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SICHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London. England*
Insist on “Singleton’s’'—refuse all substitutes.
safeguard you* health
Qt J.Collis Browuh
CWorodyue
The Original and Only Genuine.
GOOD
LOOKS
A good clear complexion has much to do with
success in life, especially for women—and for
men too. It appeals and fascinate*
more than features. You can
always have “good looks”
if you take Carter's
Little Liver Pills, for
the real source of a
healthy and spotless
face is an active
Liver. They cure;
Biliousness, Con-1
stipation, Sallow
Skin, Pimples and
erg
CARTERS
I ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Blackheads. In fact they make you better
looking. Safe for children.
Small Pill—Small Dost—Small Prise.
GENUINE
bear signature S&ZC+
If any illustration appearing in Tjik
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to tla>
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough 0 f BRONCHITIS aud
CONSUMPTION.
EEVEBISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE. RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhosa & Simple Dysentery,
SOLD IN BOTTLES.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/S and S/-.
Made in England.
dfg
'Remington,
\ZZ Cal. Rifled
and Cartridges
calibre rifles are more universally used than any
*®“ other. It is with this calibre that every boy learns to shoot —the
adult sportsman uses it for target and field shooting-writ is the arm
of small bore rifle clubs the world over.
for Shooiirtgßight]
Special descriptive booklet, showing various repeating and single shot models,
together with much interesting information on
shooting, will be sent you, post free, upon request.
h
rrm
*
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. Bryant. Australian Representative Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne
Dreadnought” Wire Strainer
12/6
“i
( Patented )
Thousands in Use.
M
1 916
l LI V
mh
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
=^===fssssms!s^^^ s^^)~^
* r* k
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Normanby Road, SOUTH


Grade Steel
ELECTRIC STEEL CASTINGS are preferred by the largest users of steel castings for the
reason that they meet the highest Government specifications.
ELECTRIC STEEL is Sounder, Stronger, Tougher, More Uniform in Chemical Composition,
and better adapted to meet the requirements of Steel Castings than steel produced by any other
process.
The whole of our products are under strict Metallurgical Control, the chemical and physical
laboratories being fully equipped. The staff is ready to co-operate and to assist engineers
and other users in the selection of Steels for their particular requirements.
/I
■
i
i
t,
s
' vfiilfllpßWV *
_ ' p _ r'fS rfs.l .
*** ■ ■ : : - J**™**'** * * .
HELICAL TOOTHED GEAR WHEEL. Weight 1 ton Oewt. Diameter 7ft.
We manufacture Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification, Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon, Chrome
Vanadium, Acid-Resisting or other Alloy Steels of every description in the form of Castings or Ingots.
Refined Electric Steel is now universally acknowledged
to be superior to that made by any other process.
We specialise in the following lines in Carbon, Chrome and Manganese Steels:—
Steel Roll Shells
Wearing Plates and Liners for Ball and
Tube Mills
Furnace Jackets
Cast Steel Truck Wheels and Axles
Sample Spoons
Cast Steel Spiders for Rockbreakers
Mill Gearing Slag Cintering Pots
Conveyor Links and Pins
Mill Rings and Dies
Stamper Shoes, Dies and Cams
Rockbreaker Mantles and Jaws
here are already over 400 satisfied users of our Steels, amongst them being the Commonwealth and all State Govern-
ment Kailway Departments, various Government Works and Corporations, and the leading Industrial and Mining Companies
throughout the Commonwealth.
Send Information and Inquiries as to your Steel Problems to
Australian Electric Steel Limited
(Listed on Lloyd's Register, London),
Telegraphic Address:
Electric Steel,
Alexandria, 9T.S.W.
Mitchell Road, Alexandria, N.S.W.
Branch Works in course of erection at WEST GUILDFORD, PERTH, W.A.
’Phone L2Bll-2.
