

a—The Spirit of Age and Wisdom
R. G. WATKINS CO.,
Machinery Merchant., 107 Kent Street;, Sydney.
Minin? and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always aval de.
awm w
l ljPP p mill
liiiiiiiiiiniiiiiii
N-S V- MONT de PIETE D & I C<?T LIMITED,
74 St*., 74. Sydney.
-ADVANCES -
ON ALL GLASSES
OF SECURITY
"WITHOUT POSSESSION
fa/ic/iejjf 215-17Swanston Stjlelb.. 40 Adelaide St, Brisbane.
29 King St.,Newcastle. l97*Castlereaqh St, & 159 George St,West, Sydney. e
CAPITAL &200. 000 PKcme City 93Z5>.
Joseph W.liiJL General Manager.
I k
i 1
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
Improved BIG CHIEF
Oil Engines.
Head and
Shoulders
above all
others.
Sizes:
V/ h.p.
to 8 h.p.
Stationary
and
Portable.
Order One TO-DAY,
CASH OR EASY TERMS.
R. L. Scrutton § Co. Ltd.,
161 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
r "\)orit Argu e '
Nothimo
to Arcuc
About!'
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors vis being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organa.
mans e ns
For INDIGESTION
anf! DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
' Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Used the
World Over
53
MOTOR
...CARS
P& B WATERPROOF
WRAPPING PAPER
Protection for yarn
and piece-goods bales.
P. &B. PAPER is of great tensile strength, completely waterproof. Provides
the ideal covering for bales.
P & B. PAPER is pliable. It is so strong that outward pressure against the
iron hoops will not break through. Bales wrapped with P. &B. PAPER can
be sprayed with a hose, and the yarn or cloth inside will remain bone-dry.
This paper is odorless. P. & B. PAPER is made of “rope Manila fibre, so
that its unusual strength is retained in the most humid climate.
Packed in rolls—four rolls to the crate. Each roll contains a sheet three feet
wide and 334 feet long—looo square feet.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sytlney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L ?
NVILLE,
G
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL
ailway Rolling Stook of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines,
ugar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths,Sinks, etc.
The Old Gaelic Whisky
Agent* ORMEi KEIGWIN CO. CO. LTD.» SYDIfEY. W
CROWN WHEEL BLANKS.
Sizes stocked from Din. x lin. to 14in. x 194 in.
Made of A.W.12 (3%% Nickel Case-hardening Steel), A.W.13
(5% Nickel Chrome Case-hardening Steel).
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO. LTD., Manchester, England.
Sele Australian Representatives:
8 Co. Ltd.,
115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Interstate Stocking Agents—A. SCOTT & CO., 164 Edward Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, ITD., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.) ETD., 894 Hay Street, Perth.
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay-
OPAXjOXD
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2116.
Thursday, September 2, 1920.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Anstralia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


* LIB RAR1 t catalogue
for 1920 1S now ready, and will be posted
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD,. 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.— Advt.
Here is proof that owners
think well of the supreme
SUNBEAM
From a Melbourne owner :
“We have recently had a
three weeks’ tour in our Sunbeam
car. This tour was taken through
some of the worst country, we
believe, in the world. In some
places there were no roads at
all, only tracks through the bush.
In one part it was really an un-
fair thing to expect any car
to get through. However, the
car is now back again, and
during the whole trip the en-
gine did not give the slightest
trouble.”
SUNBEAM-
GOATALEN
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
Export Department : " * 62, Oxford Street, London, W, 1.
Cable Addrese: Head Office:
“ Subeamoco, London.” Wolverhampton, England.
m-i
Sole Agents for New South Wales: FBASER & WILLSITORD, 823 George Street, Sydney.
This Week’s Toilet Hints
INTERESTING SELECTIONS FROM THE WORLD’S SMARTEST BEAUTY
ARTICLES—SIMPLE RECIPES MOST EFFECTIVE.
HOW TO DISCARD AN UNSIGHTLY
COMPLEXON.
“Toilet Club Notes.”
How many women exclaim as they behold
their ugly complexion in the mirror, “If I
could only tear'off this old skin!” And, do
you know, it is now possible to do that very
thing? Not to actually remove the entire
skin all of a sudden; that would be too
heroic a method and, painful, too, I imagine.
The worn-out cuticle comes off in such tiny
particles, and so gradually—requiring about
ten days to complete the transformation —it
doesn’t hurt a bit. Day by day the beautiful
..complexion underneath comes forth. Mar-
vellous'! No matter how muddy, rough,
blotchy or aged your complexion, you can
surely discard it by this simple process.
Just get some ordinary mercolised wax at
your chemist's, apply nightly like cold cream,
washing it off in the mornings.
WHY HAVE GREY HAIR
When a simple, old-fashioned and harmless recipe
will correct it?
Few people know that grey hair is .not a
necessary feature of age—that it can bg
avoided without resorting to hair dyes. A
very old, home-made remedy will turn the
hair back to a natural color in a few days.
It is only necessary to get from the chemist
two ounces of concentrate of tammalite and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum. Apply
this simple lotion to the hair for a few nights
with .a small sponge and you will soon have
the_ pleasure of seeing the greyness disappear.
This recipe is perfectly harmless, is neither
sticky nor greasy, and has given perfect
satisfaction for many generations to those in
possession of the secret.
A STRANGE SHAMPOO.
“Cosy Corner Chats.”
* * * I was much interested to learn
from this young woman with the beautiful
glossy hair that she never washes it with
soap or artificial shampoo powders. Instead
she makes her own shampoo by dissolving a
teaspoonful of stallax granules in a cup of
hot water. “I make my chemist get the
stallax for me,” said she. “It comes only
in sealed packages, enough to make up
twenty-five or thirty individual shampoos,
and it smells so good I could almost qat it.”
Certainly this little lady’s hair did look
wonderful even if she has strange ideal of a
shampoo. I am tempted to try the plan
myself.
BLACKHEADS INSTANTLY GO.
The new sparkling face-bath treatment gives
instant relief.
A very simple, harmless and pleasant pro-
cess is now used to remove blackheads and
correct greasiness and large pores in the
skin. You have only to obtain some tablets
of stymol from the chemist, drop one into
a glass of hot water and bathe the face with
the liquid after the effervescence has sub-
sided. The blackheads will then come right
off on the towel. The enlarged pores im-
mediately contract to normal and the greasi-
ness disappears, leaving the skin smooth,
soft and cool and free from blemish. But
to make sure that this desirable result is
permanent, it is advisable to repeat the
treatment several times at intervals of say
about four or five days.
IS POWDER NECESSARY?
“Practical Suggestions.”
I say emphatically, No ! There is a simple
lotion which can be easily and cheaply made
at home, and it is at the same time both
effective and beneficial to the complexion.
Cleminite is a splendid substitute for 'face
powder, which is at the bottom of many
complexion troubles. Get about an ounce
from the chemist, and dissolve in four table-
spoonfuls of water. The result is a fine
clear liquid, which instantly gives the face,
neck or arms that peach-like bloom of
perfect health. There is nothing to
it for greasy skins, and the result lasts all
day long under the most trying conditions. [2
THE. PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
■ JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited for old and young. For Coughs
Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis, Influenza and the Prevention of Consumption. ’
l&m
vJ.UJ
•J
g.Hudson:
CvSNfc’
MWWKf
srs*S!
What the Medical World saj's:— The Lancet
‘ Proved to be as effective bactericidally as is
creosote.” THIS REPORT FROM THE “LAN-
CET” LABORATORY IS UNDOUBTED EVIDENCE
of the VALUE OF EUMENTHOL JUJUBES as an
ANTISEPTIC.
1/6 a. Tin.
Sold at Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers; or
Post Free from the Sole Manufacturers—
Hudson's Eumenthol Co. Ltd., Sydney,
on receipt of 1/6 in stamps of any Province-
The Red Page
The Mind of Man
The New Psychology could be aptly de-
scribed by a term coined by Prof. Bleuler,
the “Deep Psychology.” The old was a
superficial affair. It dealt with the “content
of consciousness.” The new probes into the
deeps of human personality, and owes its
origin to the work of the psycho-analysts.
Their findings in the domain of psychopath#
ology have practically given rise to the
theory of the “unconscious”; and of this and
the views of Freyd, Jung and others The
New Psychology and its Relation to Life,
by A. G. Tansley, is mostly made up.
The “physical” and the “psychical” must
be kept apart. Though the relationship
between mind and brain is close, the nexus
is still a mystery. It is wrong to say “a
thought flashed through my brain.” Thoughts
belong to the mind, and the mind has to be
studied as a thing apart; as “possessing
structure, activities, distinct parts and func-
tions.” Much of the so-called experimental
psychology is really experimental physiology.
The most important elements in the struc-
ture of the mind are the inherited “instincts” ;
and much of the terminology of the Now
Psychology turns upon the understanding of
their nature and working:
It [the instinct] begins and ends in relation to an
object in the external world. (1) It is excited by
that object, (2) certain mental activities take place
in regard to that object, (3) action takes place with
reference to that object. These are three mental pro-
cesses called (1) the cognitive, (2) the affective, (3)
the conative. In “cognition” the mind knows, takes
cognizance, of the object. The “affect” is the emo-
tion aroused. The “conation” is the mental tendency
towards appropriate action.
It is unfortunate that so many different
terms are being used to signify the same
thing in the New Psychology. For example,
the “unconscious” might just as well be the
"subconscious,” a term which seems to be
better known and more generally accepted.
But to add further to the confusion, the
“unconscious” is divided into the # (a j fore-
conscious; (b) the primary unconscious;
and (c) the secondary unconscious. What
is really attempted is to indicate by these
terms that there are strata of being below
the level of consciousness. Here are stored
up every experience of our lives, no matter
how trivial, even those of which we took
no note at the time. Some we purposely
repress and sink deeper because we wish to
get rid of their “affect.” For these the
secondary unconscious has been reserved. On
turning to Freud’s work the writer notes
that the “fore-conscious exists like a screen
between the system of the unconscious and
the conscious.” It all amounts to this. Some
memories—or memory traces, if you like —
are easily recalled; some require a special
effort or stimulus; and some cannot be re-
called save by the intricate process of
psycho-analysis. All are of the “unconscious.”
Because of the law of the association of
ideas the actual contents of the mind can
be conceived of as a network of mental
elements. This network is further organised
into systems to which the name “complexes”
has been given. “A complex is a system of
associated mental elements the stimulation
of any one of which tends to call the rest
into consciousness through the medium of
their common affect.” Complexes are of all
sorts and sizes. But three form the ground-
work of the mental life of everyone. They
are the universal complexes—the ego com-
plex, the herd complex, and the sex complex.
And the greatest of these is the sex. The
top-dressings put on the groundwork of these
universal complexes are called particular
complexes. They, are accidental and vary
with enviroment, education and experience.
Now, as we had to assume the mind to
have a structure, so we have to assume it
to be possessed of a psychic energy tp
explain its activities. Again, care must be
.aken to distinguish between psychic energy
and physical energy. A man digging a pit
expends much physical energy but very little
psychic. A man digging into the New Psy-
chology expends much psychic force, but very
little physical. The universal complexes
(ego, herd, sex) may be regarded as charged
with great potential psychic energy, just as
an unstable chemical substance is qharged
with potential energy. The term “libido” is
applied to the psychic energy of the univer-
sal and particular complexes discharging
through the appropriate channel of conation.
Freud restricts the term to the sex complex.
The libido inherent in a complex is potential
psychic energy, When it is discharged in
conation it is kinetic. Like electricity the
libido may. be of high or low potential. A
high intensity of libido gives rise to passion.
It may characterise any conation, as the
passion of the lover, of the patriot, of the
! un : chn }, an > etc - We speak of passionate
feeling as well as “striving.” So if the
conation is intense the affect will - be intense
too. I art of the psychic energy inherent in
one complex can be diverted into another.
Thus the primitive sex energy, because its
use is intermittent and restricted by tribal
laws, tends to bank up and overflow in chan-
nels other than its own conation. Strangely
these channels are often along religious lines
and the elaboration of ritual. When part
e^ rgy .J )Glonging t 0 a Primitive in-
stmct diverted into a higher channel
it is called. the sublimation of energy.
nnrtLo 16 min< * made U P of universal and
particular complexes, and as these com-
plexes are charged with psychic forces of
own ’ Jt ls to be expected,'in spite of
unc °uscious inter-actions and checks
whereby equilibrium is kept up, that from
time to time there should be “conflict” and
repression.” The chief conflicts arise be-
tween the complexes which have the force
of the primitive instincts at their back. For
between sex and religion; between
patriotism and the family—many knew of
that conflict in the late war; the sex instinct
and the herd instinct. These are the themes
common to the novel and the stage. But
even in the lesser complexes, in the psycho-
logy of everyday life, we have the fret and
the friction and the conflict present, and
none there be who escape it. We get over
it by forgetting it.
But there is a forgetting which is a dan-
gerous process. It is known as repression
Some conflict arises that causes great
psychic pain. We wish to escape from it
and we repress it. The psychic trauma, the
anguish and mental pain, may arise from
the thwarting of a primitive instinct —say a'
hopeless love affair; or a great blow to the
ego complex—say failure in business. What-
ever it be, we repress it into the uncon-
scious. If when we cut off the complex,
whatever it may be, from the conscious and
cast it into the unconscious—if when we did
this it lost its libido or psychic foi’ce and
died like a branch when cut from a tree, all
would be well. But it does not. We scotch
the snake: we do not kill it. And half the
ills that flesh is heir to arise from this
repression. “Canst tliou minister to a mind
diseased, pluck from the memory a rooted
sorrow?” asks Macbeth of the doctor. The "
mind dis-eased is the “conflict,” the rooted
sorrow is the repressed wish or complex.
And it may show itself in any one of the
neuroses—in hysteria; in dissociation of
personality; even in insanity itself. Now,
how shift or get at these repressed complexes
that have so dug themselves in? When we
know them we can bomb them out by direct
“suggestion.” Oftentimes we know them not.
They may have dropped into the unconscious
long years ago. Then the long and intricate
process of psycho-analysis is needed. We
fish in the deeps of personality with test-
words in the hope of hooking some part of
the network of the offending complex; or
we go to the dream —Freud calls it the
via regia to the unconscious. As conscious-
ness slackens its hold in sleep the repressed
wish tends to come up. It cannot pass an
endopsychic censor in its original form.
Therefore it passes into symbol, and in the
clever interpretation of the dream symbols
the genius of Freud has most declared itself.
Once the complex has been brought back to
consciousness the libido discharges and all
is well. It is as if a psychical scalpel opened
a deep-seated psychical abscess and liberated
the psychical toxins that were poisoning the
stream of conscious and unconscious mental
life.
Not alone in the dream states is the re-
pressed materials expressed in symbols. We
see the same tendency in hysteria.
Tansley elaborates the ego complex, the
herd complex and the sex complex, under
the heading “Contents of the Mind,” The
reader will find a .close study of the herd
instinct and the byways of the sex instinct
well worth while.
D. F.
Louisa Lawson and Her Son
.Louisa Lawson’s parents were English
immigrants. Her father, Henry Aibury.
was a tall, broad-shouldered Kentishman,
with brown eyes and wavy, blue-black hair;
her mother, Harriet Wynn, was a Devon lass,
the daughter of a clergyman. Henry Aibury
took his bride across the mountains from
Sydney, by way of Mudgee, to Guntawang,
Geex-ge Rouse’s station, where, until more
prosperous times came, they lived in a slab
hut.
LoiAsa was the second of 12 children, 10
of whom are still living. When she was
a child Henry Aibury moved his increasing
fainily to Mudgee, where Louisa and her
sisters attended the public school. Their
teacher was a fine classical scholar, Mr.
Alpass. Louisa was his favorite pupil, and
he wanted her to join his own profession,
but her mother objected. The girl’s strong-
personality exhibited itself early. She was
brought up a strict Methodist, but shocked
her mother and scahdalised the congregation
by walking out of church while the minister
was preaching the beauties of eternal dam-
nation. She refused to apologise or to
return to church, and only her father’s inter-
cession prevented her from being turned out
of the family nest. She was her father’s
mate. Often she spent weeks with him in
the ranges timber-getting. A born mimic,
she amused him by imitating the speech of
the Irish and German settlers* and she wrote
verses in her spare time.
At 18 Louisa married Peter Larsen, a
Norwegian sailor who had deserted his ship
along with William Slee, afterwards Chief
Inspector of Mines, and Charles Jansen. She
brought her husband five children —Henry,
Charles William, Peter, and twin girls,- Ger-
trude and Annette. Annette died in child-
hood ; her death was the occasion of some
memorial verses, the first of Louisa’s to be
published; they appeared in the Mudgee
Independent. The reading of his mother’s
lines in print aroused the poetic faculty in
Henry, then a boy of 11, and he sat down
and dashed off some ragged rhymes of his
own. Henry was born in a tent at the One
Mile, Young. His father and mother had
travelled across country in a dray from
Eurunderee to the new rush, and the little
calico home was stretched upon a wooden
frame and protected from the weather by a
break of boughs. Rain set in, and the nurse
had to be brought over two miles of muddy
water. The second day she could not come
a ™ Louisa, the one woman among
7000 miners, lay fever, too
delirious to mother the ' Ww-born poet.
In this situation the diggers sought out an
eccentric character known as “Woe Whiley ”
who saved the mother’s life and the baby’s
too. He washed, dressed and fed the mite
until the flood subsided and the nurse
returned.
When Peter Larsen took out his natural-
isation papers he assumed the English form
of his name, and as Peter Lawson became
a free-selector. But after 15 years of bitter
struggling on a hopeless farm (it is idle
and deseited to-day), Louisa Lawson sold
up her household goods and came to Syd-
-Henry was apprenticed to Hudson’s,
at the Clyde, to learn coach-painting, and
his mother threw her energies into journal-
ism and social reform. She bought a
monthly called the Republican, but ft was
n n ™ Ved ‘ Then she began t 0 Publish
the Hawn as a woman’s journal wholly
produced bf women. All the first issue
except the story was from her pen, and she
got all the, advertisements. The next month’s
issue she _ printed and published herself.
That was m May, 1888. Before the Christ-
mas of that year she had a full staff of
women compositors and a job-printing plant.
(Continued on page 28.)


luje
i »irrn
iinimnnmiTinmuHiiiinmw
rriiTiiiinTninnimmim iimiim nrun iniiinunmnilim'in
a
57 n o
Cu
CUL l-\.\ niunulmiiin.ii..i..iii)iin..iH>iiiillliiiiuniinlliiM
UUJJ
MENS WEAR AT
Anthony Horderns'
Every man likes to know before he makes eve
a small purchase that his money will yield the
uttermost in value —and every man, whether in
City or Country, who has once shopped at the
House of Economy, is fully alert to the attractive
values attending his every expenditure, whether
big or small. Comparison demonstrates these facts,
and comparison always demonstrates Anthony
Horderns’ to be the incomparable value centre.
Men’s Palace Suits.
THE “PALACE” is a Smartly-cut, Well-finished Suit for City Men, made
by highly-skilled labor in our own Workrooms.
In Medium and Dark Shade of GREY COLONIAL TWEED 707-
In ENGLISH and AUSTRALIAN TWEEDS, neat and dark designs—
-84/-, 95/-, 105/-, 1107-
In FANCY WORSTEDS, Stripe and Check effects.. 105/-, 115/-, 1267-
In FINE RIB NAVY SERGE, Indigo Dye 147/-, 1687-
In TWEEDS and WORSTED; newest shades of Greys and Browns—
-90/-, 95/-, 110/-, 1267-
In NAVY SERGE, Indigo Dye 126/-, 1477-
In FOX’S ROUGH SERGE 147/-
Palace Overcoats.
THE ALTCAR, double-breasted, convertible collar, patch pockets with flaps, half-
belt at back, suitable garment for city or country wear.
DARK-GREY ALL-WOOL TWEEDS, unlined 126/-, 147/-, 168/-
DARK-GREY IRISH TWEED, lined, Black-and-white Check.. £lOlO/-
THE RAGLAN. —Comfortable slip-on shoulders, generous skirts, path vent, patch
or through opening pockets, plain or strapped cuffs —
FANCY TWEEDS, neat designs in Grey Effects .. 70/-, 84/-, 95/-, 105/-
IRISH TWEEDS, in Black-and-white Effects 155/-, 168/-, 2107-
FAWN COTTON GABARDINE, lined Check 58/6, 63/-, 757-
FAWN WOOL GABARDINE, lined Check .. 105/-, 126/-, 147/-, 168/-
WE PAY CARRIAGE on Men’s Wear to any
address in N.S.W., and on inter-State orders
to the nearest port.
Anthony Hordern & Sons Limited
The House of Economy u— BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDHEY.


MEGGITT LIMITED’S
LINSEED MEAL.
Meggitt Limited have much pleasure in
announcing that they are now able to place their
famous (®j) Linseed Oil Meal on the market.
Although © Linseed Meal will be supplied identical
in quality with that which established 4 ‘The Standard of
Quality” in the past, we strongly recommend all owners
of stock to advance with science and use our ©Specialised
Stock Foods to obtain maximum results.
© Stock Foods are scientifically balanced rations
compounded on a basis of our famous © Linseed Oil Meal,
and contain the correct proportions of Protein, Carbohydrates
and Fats. Our © Specialised Stock Foods are blended to suit
the exact requirements of all classes of Stock, and MUST give
results.
All Stock Foods carry our © guarantee, which is the
“Standard of Quality.”
Write for Booklet on Scientific Feeding to © Stock
Foods Dept. A.
Agents:—Messrs. Wm. Adams & Co., King Street, Perth W.A.; Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay
Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Queen,
Street, Brisbane: Messrs. Clarkson, Ltd., Bundle Street, Adelaide; Messrs. F. W.
Heritage & Co., Hobart and Launceston; The National Dairy Association of N.Z., Ltd.,
Sussex Chambers, Panama Street, Wellington, N.Z.; Messrs. Johnston & Co., Ltd.,
Featherston Street, Wellington, N.Z.
M
guarantees quality'
jGitfUtecl
HEAD OFFICE 26 KING ST SYlKEr^&dis-.ariamatta)
y«sin>aif«
m
'yAejboy on the bag
guarantees qualify
V
o
O
%
V
o
/


For Bad Breath
Those who find their
breath bad in the morning; a
bad taste in the mouth and a
furred tongue, will find Pink-
ettes—the new laxative—
an excellent remedy. They
correct the stomach condi-
tions which cause symptoms;
regulate the liver and remove
constipation. Pinkettes act
without causing sickness or
griping, or after effects of
strong purgatives.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Room 5, 2nd Floor, 227 Collins St., Melbourne
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
.7 H p«s«%.,
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £41,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.k, General Manager.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential • Hotel.
TARIFF: —From 17/6 per day.
10/- per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
CELEBRATED
22
K
*
The Bapid Cure for Corns
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has- become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young—hard or soft, and
that remedy is A’CORN SILK, which
removes the worst corn in a few days, and the
sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure —it kills them. It is a painless cure —
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, Gd. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—•
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
K. W. Bradley, Fitzroy Buildings, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Aberdeen House,
204 Clarenoe Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart.
R. H. Maxwell & Co., 18 Howard Street,
Perth, W.A. [l
A Stereo Case
To Smarten Your
Costume.
Just at the end of the season, when even the nicest
clothes begin to look tired, a little thing like a new
handbag will do wonders in freshening your appear-
ance. We illustrate a Stereo Case which will lend
smartness to any costume. It is made of black
morocco, fitted with a small purse and mirror, and
floral lined.
Price 18/6.
Mention XI2 when ordering. We pay postage
throughout Australia.
Our illustrated catalogue of Ladies’ Purses and Handbags,
Gentlemen’s Wallets, Leather Travelling Goods, etc., is
almost completed. Send your name and address and we
shall forward a copy later.
The AMERICAN. BAG STORES Ltd
THE BAG- STORE.' IKIN.G- AND PITT STREETS.
STRAND ARCADE. PITT ST. • • SYDNEY ARCADE. GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
THE TRUSS YOU WANT.
■
<2
Jk
3
«
g
(5
a
IB
<?
%
<sr
C
y'
A Truss that, while performing its functions in the
most efficient manner, is so comfortable that you can
go about your daily dutiej without the slightest
hindrance or inconvenience, is surely one that merits
the consideration of every ruptured person.
DENVER’S
Elastic Truss
offers that service to the ruptured. It is the perfect
safeguard, and to thousands of ruptured persons
throughout Australia it is worth its cost over and
over again. Don’t be misled with unproved appli-
ances. Adopt the sure, safe and sane safeguard—
DENVER’S ELASTIC TRUSS, and get it to-day. The
price is only
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
Send for our Free Truss Pamphlet, mailed in plain
sealed envelope.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal
Belts and Artificial Limbs,
281 George St., Sydney
The Edison
Tone Test
is a proof.
It’s a positive proof that Thomas
A. Edison has perfected an instru-
ment which Re-creates the human
voice with such fidelity that no
one can distinguish between the
singer and instrument.
It sounds incredible—but before audiences
of over two million people great artists
have sung in direct comparison with the
New Edison and defied the audience to
detect the slightest difference.
Mf
A
I
§rm
m
; ow'Oh.v.hr #vs.fr*-W'p ; fi
h
'* a
till
in! b
s
wTJ
N.®y
Learn more about this, marvellous instrument by writing for information, which
will be sent post free. '
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
The Greatest
Marvel of
the Age.
376
,
%
V
So Simple a Child
Can Work It.
376
Hand Embroiderer
Embroiders in a day what would take a month
by hand.
Works anything on anything.
From the Finest Georgette to the
Thickest Curtain Material.
Printed instructions with every machine; also free demonstrations
and teaching at Malcolm Buildings, Malcolm Lane, near Bridge
Street, Sydney; and at Room Six, 6th Floor, Stock Exchange
Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVE (WHOLESALE ONLY) :
Eastern Trading Co. Ltd., Malcolm Place, Sydney.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Trees and Stars.
Green trees, clean trees, wave their hands
to me —
Leafy hands of laughter, fragrant, sweet
and free.
Dear trees, near trees, bow their heads and
say :
“To all folk, for all time, a good, good day.”
Small trees, tall trees, standing always by,
Once I dreamed I saw them growing in the
sky.
Old trees, cold trees, fluttered far and far.
Everyone had flown away and rooted in a
star.
Shy trees, high trees, now the night is blue.
It would be a laughing world if my dream
came true.
Still trees, chill trees, dreaming softly there
With the stars of all the world tangled in
your hair.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
The Archer.
Little lady, as you wonder
What new peril life is bringing
To your comfort and your planning,
To your dainty quest of plunder,
Comes a gallant Someone, singing,
Someone eager, Someone scanning
In your armor every weakness,
Comes a shaft of torment stinging
To your heart; and so with meekness
Y6u go under.
Oh, the Someone! Unafraid he
With his mocking smiles derides you!
As his bow twangs how you shiver,
While he tracks you down the shady
Lanes! (Who knows what woe betides you
Where the shadows kiss the river?)
You, by strange new fears affronted,
Pause, and on his breast he bides y0u....
Ah, the Hunter loves the hunted,
Little lady !
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
Ambition.
Just half a dozen steps from here
A mighty cliff drops dark and sheer
A thousand feet of awful fear
Into the awful sea.
Just half a dozen steps divide
Me from the crag’s inviting side,
And always does the seventh stride
Beckon and call to me.
For every dawn although I lean
Beyond the ledge, I’ve never seen
That mighty wall of livid green
Lit by the morning light.
But when I take that extra pace
I’ll wriggle as I fall through space
And watch the dawn break on its face
And feast upon the sight;
Then having swiftly reached the base,
I’ll pass into the night.
n.s.w.
LEON GELLRT.
In the Dark.
I am riding at night an eerie track, the
ghost of a light before,
A hurricane lamp that wavers and glooms,
then shines a moment or more;
And catches the glossy green of the shrubs,
white flame of a grass-tree spear;
The muffled thump as a wallaby leaps, the
hoot of an owl I hear.
Now the lamp goes out as the track dips
steep, to where the dark waters sound,
And “Into Thy Hands, O Lord!” I say, as
thick blackness covers me round.
And nothing is left but the plodding horse,
who slow and carefully goes,
And the glint of the fire-flies here and there
on sepia velvet shows.
A.nd pricked on the earth in letters of flame,
, in sign or language unknown,
Is the message that flamed in the burning
bush to Moses of Israel shown.
For ages and ages it seems I ride, no star, no
beacon to guide.
And the flickering earth-lights pale and faint,
as dewdrops plash by my side;
Like voiceless tears that well from the heart,
when grief is too poignant to show.
When the face is hidden, the body still, and
only the tears drop slow.
I have passed the thicket, and hoofs ring
clear and loud on the rocky bar.
The water forded, I see in the east the
gleam of the morning star!
There is one I love at the bridle-rein, I
knew he was on before —
Dear God! where he left me a year ago, to
meet in the flesh no more!
He walks at my side as he walked of old,
I yearn—how I yearn to see;
Yet bless the darkness, the strangling gloom,
that brings my dearest to me.
I feel him press to my side, to my heart; his
lips on my lips I know;
And I hear him sigh as he slips away—is
gone, where I may not go.
I love the night when the moon is not, when
no shadoic falls on the track,
For these are the nights, if I ride alone, when
he whom I love comes lack.
QUEENSLAND.
BLACK BONNET.


March 2£Th 4 ’29
TIMBERMAK AND •IRONMASI'ER* §
The Murray Riyer Irrigation Settlements and the A.D.F.A.
Clie humorous '/ictorian train that leaves
a)lelbourne • in' 'the hinderpart of the afternoon
and; decants its. passengers once at Castlemaine, and again
nt trots for the last few hours of its journey
through ithe abomination and desolation. There is no
worse region of .Australia than tips— not excepting Patsy’s
Springs, the .mad country between the Corella and the
Argylla and Dunbulah to Wolfram Camp. The ante-
chamber to Mildura is mean,, dry, starved country—sand
•and stunted mallee, and infrequently, a discouraged Murray
pine, and saltbush . and an interior kind of
icbuntry .where -everything is inferior, and d ulU/i
<tncl impalpable, and sifting through
enough to be a great mining camp, and as poor in
minerals as in moisture. And then suddenly the train runs
into cultivation .and graciousness at Irymple—the eastern
end or the Victorian Murray irrigation system—the
kingdom of the.channel and the ditch. The mean mailer*
and spimlex are replaced by long avenues of fan palms’'
the. vines at thei if harvest, .limiting the plain'to
their. sect ions, and making* it as beautiful as Lombardy
ana m these once and plains and- rolling country is even
are trees of waters
an artificial little Nile makes every
is mostly a nuisance that comes, at
:k the IrjiJXabout. And that soaking
ij
r. /
; rt? i
2
#
m
i
'SI
,
5 Z
sm i
v
■■
W
A
old^haid
: v
WC. <£. Cfaf/cy.
th
at
cru
mise
i
as
hereof
hcVrepresented
rawest. ..stronger men
places., as
is creation
4er why this
.coitntry is as
grief; dry-
\
ceed
m
ally
skin
of every six placed this community of ii.com
people engageflEfta %6/st pleasant of the industries of
the soil, and ten times that number, producing
ten millions w where a year’s work to-day vie Ids
a product and a-quarter.
•. The original. Chaffey proposition was fti’g, and the
Country deserved it. Itincluded the making and planting of
a Deakin Avenue seven milesJong, and on this and the many
other streets " and. avenues go wagons'loaded with trays of
sultanas or sweat boxes of currants bound for the half-dozen
or so of packing houses. Chaffeys came up to old Mildura
Station in ’B6, and founded the irrigation colony in 1887.
GRAPES at the SUNRAYSED SETTLEMENTS
WHAT vision, knowledge and organising work may do is
illustrated above* the pioneers of Sunravsia
commenced operations no one imagined that in 1920
the settlements would carry 11,000 grape-growers on irrigated
lands. In 1919 the settlements produced £1,250,000 of dried
fruits, sold to the markets of the world at top prices* The success
of the past, together with present sales and the strong demand
from American and European buyers tell of great future pros-
pects. There is no limit to what may be done. Next year sales
should reach the tall figure of £1,500,000, and in five years’
time these figures should be trebled, for every month sees more
acres and more growers pressed into this profitable work.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office.. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 41.—N0. 2116.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1920.
Price 9d.
THE FIRST TO SUFFER.
“The Sydney Trades and Labor Council, which took the lead in securing the liberation of the I.W.W. prisoners, passed a series of resolutions which Mr. Storey’s Government
finds so embarrassing that the A.L.P. has been constrained to utterly repudiate them.
THE ONLOOKER: “Well, you WOULD let him off the chain!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 2X4 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 lCis. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to ant address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of 'the contents of this number is -hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —-i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus : and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.k;
E. T. Hole, liolerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” ol High
Ilolborn, London, W.C.I. \
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; International Mouse,
Ilk Kerb Street, Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., kkl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; the Boston Hat Works and News
Co., 109 A Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A.—Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; J. Roland Kay Co., 18)9
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Liberty News
Co., Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth
Avenue and 27th Street, New York; Schulte News
Agency, Bryant Park, )%nd Street and 6th Avenue,
New York City; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago; Golden Gate News Agency,
719 Market Street, Chicago ; George Hussey, Pershing
Square Nbws Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. — Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Ivong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore< —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera. 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai, Kulamadau and
Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands. 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in eifch packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Bioz. to lOoz..
3d.100z. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, -}oz., lid., and
id. each additional to?..
yUeZz/n.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1920.
DISFRANCHISED AUSTRALIA AND
THE ENFRANCHISED ALIENS
WHO RUN IT.
The arrogant alien or unbidden guest has a
mighty hold on Australia, and it is quite in
the natural order of things that the traitor
or terrorist section of the Labor party should
threaten on his behalf about the most com-
prehensive wreckage of Australian industry
yet invented. The idea is, in the first place,
that no further deportations of undesirables
should be allowed. As a deportation law,
like any other Federal statute, is the law
of the great majority and can’t be evaded
by peaceful means, it is intended that the
minority should abolish it by violence and
male brute force. In this way it is proposed
that the Australian should be the one person
in the world who isn’t master of his own
house, but is subservient to the wanderer
within his gates. All through history nations
have fought great wars to keep the foreigner
out, but if the N. S. Wales Trades and
Labor Council has its way ours will be the
deranged freak-people that is willing, to make
huge sacrifices to keep him in, however bad
he may be. The methods of the gang of
anarchists are comprehensive enough. If
any attempt is made to return another alien
to his homeland, whether he be traitor, in-
cendiary, spy or common nuisance, a gigantic
attack on this country’s means of livelihood
is to follow. There is to be a slowing-down
almost to the point of stoppage in every
trade. Ships are to be reduced to half-
speed. Lighting is to be diminished or cut
off. Job committees, shop committees, work-
shop committees and similar soviets are to
take hold of everything. No serious attack
is projected on the importer who brings
alien goods into the country, and is some-
times an alien himself, and often the deputy
of an alien, perhaps because he is hard
to reach and perhaps because of his foreign
connections. But against Australia —its in-
terests, its production, its prosperity, its
right of self-government by the will of the
whole people—the malevolent and Quilp-
like crowd of anti-Australians contemplates
war to the knife.
The other day J. L. Campbell, a royal
commissioner appointed to inquire into the
coal industry of N. S. Wales, made a remark
in his report about the mastery which
foreigners, many of them with little or no-
thing at stake here, have acquired over Aus-
tralian Labor affairs, and the pathetic sub-
serviency of the owners of the land to the
interlopers. He spoke of
a subordination of mind and action on the part of
the moderate and serious-minded of the employees
to the crude and hectic preachings of an inconsider-
able section of their body, alien for the most part in
origin and spirit, whom they had allowed to attain
an ascendancy in council in inverse ratio to their
real authority and standing.
It was a true bill, for the Australian work-
man, with an Australian wife and children
whose comfort and happiness are liable to
be destroyed in every silly strike, is strangely
servile in industrial matters to beardless
boys and truculent new arrivals who have
few responsibilities here or none at all. One
cause of the rot and decay in Australian
institutions is that the unionist’s wife does
not become, as she should do automatically
and as a matter of course, a member of her
husband’s union. And she is very seldom
qualified to belong to a union of her own.
The aggregate union membership is about
one woman to 20 men, and the odd woman
is seldom either a wife or a mother. So
the law which says that the undesirable out-
sider should go is a law made by men and
women in practically equal numbers—the
law of the whole people—whereas the edict
which says that he shall not go, however
objectionable he may be, doesn’t profess to
be the law of more than half the people—
the male half. Also it only professes to be
the law of the unionist section of that half,
or a bare majority of that section of that
half. Every day more arid more power
passes from the nerveless hands of the
people’s open and above-board Legislatures
and is seized on by secret conclaves of men
and youths, brooded over by persons of the
Garden type. At last, therefore, woman is
pretty nearly back to her old status of a
disfranchised chattel. Three-fourths of the
misery which follows on insane strike poli-
cies falls on her directly or through her child-
ren, but being a helot as regards the matters
that really concern her she can only suffer.
The vote of one Paul Freeman, an
absconder from his own country, living under
an alias, professing a bogus nationality and
a mere wanderer on the face of the earth,
equals in essential matters that of an Aus-
tralian worker with his wife and five child-
ren. That is to say, Paul reckons as seven
votes and as many more as the volcanic
energy of the chronic Ishmaelite may count
for. And Paul, when it is proposed to give
him a luxurious free trip home, gets more
maudlin sympathy than the whole seven
Australians.
* * * ft
The alien, viewed on the figures, is no
small item. To begin with, he is mostly
a male —one of the enfranchised sex
that runs big Labor matters. At last
census there were in the Commonwealth
73,949 persons born on the continent of
Europe, where Paul Freeman came from;
but 54,546 were males eligible to support
Garden and co. in planning the ruin of Aus-
tralian industry, and only 19,403 were
females. Similarly of the persons born in
the United Kingdom where Tom Walsii
came from —590.722 in a 11—336,767 were
male and only 253,955 females. Out of
11,278 from the United States 7738 were
male. The great bulk of the 391,313 male
Europeans were of the class which is quali-
fied to belong to trades unions, and most of
them were of the age to belong, for small
boys don’t voyage here by themselves. The
union takes the beardless, unmarried, unin-
formed, irresponsible youth to its bosom
early, and it doesn’t trouble much about his
pedigree. So when the unions take control
of all things, which their leaders plainly
intend to" do, the adolescent Hun or Rus-
sian may have an effective vote while the
mature Australian-born wife and mother
hasn’t. She may merely vote for the Legis-
lature which doesn’t count. The sexes
among the Australian-born were practically
equal before the war, and now the women—
the industrially disfranchised—certainly pre-
dominate. Among the continental Europeans
in Australia the industrially disfranchised are
only one-fourth; among the Anglo-Irish
immigrants less than one-third. Adding to
this the fact that the industrially disfran-
chised male children are almost all Aus-
tralian, it is no wonder that the aggressive
imported person runs the show. And as he
flies with such little baggage in the way of
domestic responsibilities, it -is little wonder
that this invader has no more compunction
about wrecking Australian industrv than the
Hun had about wrecking that of Belgium.
* * * *
Now that the violent minority represented
by Secretary Garden and other leaders of
foreign industrial forces openly propose to
take Australia out of the hands of its own
people, there are three points on which it is
worth while to do battle to a finish :
(1) That no alien shall be. admitted to a union
(though he may come under union rules), or attend
union meetings, or be admitted to its conclaves in
any way.
(2) That a similar restriction shall apply to Brit-
ish subjects aged less than 21.
(3) That the unionist’s wife, being a British sub-
ject and aged over 21, shall be a full member of
the union to which her husband belongs.
In other words, if Australia has a class
Parliament which claims in most things to
supersede the Parliament of the nation, it
should at least represent the whole of its
class as it is represented in the Parliament
of the nation. At present in Garden’s
class-Legislature practically half the Austra-
lian people are disqualified by sex, and nearly
three-quarters are disqualified by sex and
immaturity combined : while of the continen-
tal alien—the Paul Freeman and Bolshevik
sort, which arrives here grown up and is
mostly male—only one-fourth is similarly
ruled out. The People’s Legislature has
over 2,800.000 electors, and in it the alien
hardly The union electorate (i.e.,
the total union membership) amounts to
630,000, and as the alien is there almost
unanimously he counts for a lot—many times
as much as he does in the Senate. If
Garden’s gang was content to rule itself
in the same sense that a SHak'speare society
or a bowling-club does, its membership would
be its own affair. As it aims to rule Aus-
tralia it is Australia’s affair.
THE CONSERVATIVE REVOLU-.
TIONARY.
The boom given by the Argus and like-
minded papers to the mostly-imported Sinn
Fein agitators was not designed to prevent
the Empire from breaking up (very few
would have even known that the agitators
were agitating but for the daily papers) ;
the notion was to divide Labor and save the
Hughes Government. Likewise the atten-
tion given to the bombastic talk of the wild
men of the I.W.W. movement in N. S. Wales
does not represent a wish to state fairly the
views held by a section which is important
enough to deserve notice: the object is to
frighten middle-class electors into voting for
the Fuller party. It is curious how often
the Conservative tacticians fight for objec-
tives which, if they were attained, might
very well be fatal to the cause of Property.
For example, the same forces which are now,
for Paj;ty purposes, stirring up class and
sectarian hatred, opposed—-also on Party
grounds—an Australian navy and universal
service. Yet, in reality, these were conserva-
tive proposals. All defence measures are,
in the sense that they stand for Nationalism
and the safeguarding of land and goods. If
the Sydney mornieg papers had been success-
ful a decade ago n. their attempt to blanket
the creation of the R.A.N., one of two things
would have happened to N. S. Wales in 1914.
Either Sydney would have been shelled from
the sea, or the State would have become, if
only- temporarily, another Shantung—Aus-
tralia’s Japanese saviours would have been
justified, under international law, in putting
in an army of occupation for “protective
purposes.” x\t the best Property would have
paid: at the worst the alien force would be
here still. The same press that played the
game of Germany in an attempt to dish the
Fisher party in 1909 is playing the game
of Bolshevism in 1920 with the object of
dishing the Tudor party or the Storey
party or any other party which doesn’t hap-
pen to sport the Tory ticket.
* * * *
The papers which are busy manufacturing
Party—which is to say, class —hatred can
see clearly enough the peril involved in cre-
ating hatred elsewhere. The Sydney Tele-
graph (24/8/’2O) quoted with approval
some remarks made recently by the Japan-
ese Vice-Minister for Foreign Affairs on the
Jap-American situation. The Japanese
statesman had said that “if the irritation on
both sides is allowed to continue indefinitely
it will ‘produce an atmosphere which may
lfead to almost anything,’ ” and he promised
that he “would seek to discover the causes
which may bring Japan and America into
collision, and to eliminate them by diplo-
macy.” It is not easy to allay international
suspicion. Sometimes it is not even safe.
If Britain had been more apprehensive of the
German menace its Expeditionary Army might
have been big enough to hold up the Huns
at Mons, and by ousting them from Northern
France, if not from Belgium, have shortened
the war by years. If it had been less appre-
hensive the fleet might have been below
strength and the Empire destroyed. There
is, therefore, a case for jealous watchfulness
between nations. But there is none for
anything of the sort between the different
classes of an intelligent nation. All their
disputes should be capable of adjustment
by diplomacy.
* * * *
To that end, of course, the parties ought
at all times to be in a position to meet with
friendly feelings on both sides. That is why
every successful revolutionary has begun his
work by a campaign to inflame class hatred,
a task which has become easier in proportion
as the world has grown more literate. Eng-
land’s _ first Bolshevik movement took two
centuries to come to a head. It would not
have done so when it did but that John
Ball, the first articulate communist of his
race, found a means of getting his theories
to the ears of the populace. As there were
no newspapers in 1360, and as none of those
whom Ball wished to influence could in any
event read, he spread his doctrines by means
of easily-remembered rhymes. The eventual
result was a revolt which cost some 10,000
people their lives. In modern Australia
everyone can read. The business of satis-
fying the news-hunger of about five million
people is monopolised by a few papers, most
of which aim at conducting themselves in
the interests of the propertied classes. But
as often as the managements are overcome
by their feelings as Party enthusiasts, as
often as it is a question of engineering
Tweedledum into office instead of Tweedle-
dee, or vice versa, they proceed blindly to
play the game of those who are out to over-
throw constitutionalism and replace it by
anarchy. Anyone with a stirring hymn of
hate to sing is sure of the hospitality of
their columns. They do inflammatory pro-
paganda work for the Balls, the Rous-
seaus, the Marxes and the Lenins which
the latter could never accomplish for them-
selves ; and with tragic paradox they call it
opposition to Bolshevism.
TOO PROUD TO SERVE.
Last Friday Sydney Telegraph described
as “Gilbertian” N.S.W. Premier Storey’s
decision to appoint political lawyers to the
judiciary “where they are the equal of the
men available outside.” Conservatism favors
“the lawyer who. disdaining politics, has
risen to the Bench by the merit of profes-
sional excellence and potent personality.”
Which of us has failed to encounter the legal
disdainer of politics—and his bank-balance?
The State was in need the other day of
an acting-Judge. The Equity Bar was ran-
sacked in vain. Every one of the potent per-
sonalities approached explained that he
wouldn’t make the financial sacrifice. When
the war began members of every trade and
profession enlisted. First and last 50 per
cent, of all the doctors in the Commonwealth
seiwed. As regards the Bar, for everv
maclaurin and Blackburn who risked all
and went, there were half a dozen equally
t who disdained to do anything but stay
at home and make monev.
* * * *
compare two well-known types with an
eye to their qualifications as‘judges. The
.st sets out to make a fortune as a bar-
rister. He cultivates solicitors; marries
into a soliciting family if he can; spends
the ensuing 25 years trotting between his
«° j l6 , a . his chambers. Each passing year
finds him less and less a man of the world;
more intolerant of any new point of view;
easier to stampede on a party-issue, bogus
or otherwise. He is more bitter in his poli-
tical prejudices than any politician. Before
he is 60, if he has ability, he can be well-
to-do and be still making a good income.
His learned friend of the other type decides
to give a share of his ability and knowledge
to the State. He goes into Parliament, or
identifies himself with some controversial
public question, or sits on a convention
called to consider changes in the Constitu-
tion. Unless he takes the Reactionary view
throughout he alienates 95 per cent, of those
with briefs at disposal. George Reid
couldn’t have got a fat brief to save his
life 20 years ago: it was not his capacity
but his land legislation that was at fault.
At a later period Barton was anathema to
every good Geebung. Beeby found himself
in the same position recently. The barrister
who devotes years to the service of his coun-
try emerges a much broader, mellower and
more tolerant individual than the cloistered
fortune-seeker, and with a ten times better
understanding of his fellow-man. But how-
ever great his capacity, he is generally poor,
as Griffith, Barton, O’Connor and others
were when they left the bar. Judged by
the standard which, the legal profession
applies in such cases he has been a failure;
and the Bar always protests when one of
his type is raised to the Bench. But it has
been demonstrated, both here and in the
United Kingdom, that such men rarely turn
out failures as Judges, while in the majority
of cases they stand head and shoulders over
those who were lawyers and no more in
the past. It would be shocking, of course, if
a Party Government, careless of the merits
of a lawyer-politician on the Opposition side,
appointed him to the Bench merely to get
rid of him. But that is not the point. The
Daily Telegraph is discussing not the
application or misapplication of the principle,
but the principle itself. What is insisted
upon in reply is that in recompensing the
right political lawyer with a Judgeship or
what not, the State not only gets value for
its money : it also meets an obligation.
* * * *
There is another aspect of the question.
The intellectual calibre of Australia’s multi-
tudinous Parliaments is steadily deteriorat-
ing. The N. S. Wales Assembly plumbed
a depth of ineptitude in connection with the
last censure debate which constituted a
record for the State. The reason is that
the possessor of a .first-rate mind is as ambi-
tious as the next man, if not more so, and
that there is not enough money to be got. in
the service of the country. Two sections,
broadly speaking, compete for the distinc-
tion at present—the idle rich and the fluent
stumD-orator. The professional and commer-
cial sections—elements which are very neces-
sary if Parliament is to be truly representa-
tive —are conspicuously wanting, and likely
to become more so as time goes on. One
certain cure is the laying down of the prin-
ciple that a qualification precedent to every
important appointment in the gift of the
State shall be service rendered to the State,
Another is increased Parliamentary salaries,
corollaries of which are a further drastic
reduction of members and the abolition of
Legislative Councils and imported State
Governors. Men who were successful in
the legal profession, in medicine and in other
walks of life would then automatically cease
to disdain politics.
THE HAUNTED HOUSE.
Yesterday I attended at the House of Com-
mons. I am not sure whether it was a stance,
an assemblage of courteous ghosts or a dream.
I only know I felt a strong desire to climb
down from the Members’ Gallery and test
the reality of these bald-headed spectres, to
poke a finger into Sir Edward Carson’s
stolid figure, to feel whether the pulse of
Lord Hugh Cecil beat hot or cold and
whether the pathetic figure of Mr. Asquith
would crumble at a touch.
They were discussing the Home Rule Bill.
The last time I listened to a debate in the
House of Commons the war-cloud was lower-
ing over Europe. I had just been through
Siberia and Russia, had seen the beginnings of
the mobilisation of the Czar’s troops, and had
got out of Berlin into Belgium just in front
of the German invasion. The House on that
occasion was discussing milk-churns, but
that debate of 1914 did not seem one-half
so unreal as the one I listened to yesterday.
Its extreme politeness was impressive.
The apparition of the Home Rule Bill was
a signal for the departure of nearly half the
House. The Labor ghosts and the Nation-
alist ghosts washed their tenuous hands of
the whole business and filed silently out of
the Chamber. The Coalition ghosts and the
Libera] ghosts and a few spooks of uncertain
allegiance were left to fight their spectral
battle unaided. It was a war of theories
without passion, and it seldom rose above
the level of a village debating-society pre-
sided over by the curate. A tall, cadaverous
ghost with a white and gleaming skull de-
livered an oration on the merits of the
bicameral system. The words “Australia”
and “the Colonies” came drifting up through
the gloom. Australia had 14 Houses; why
let Ireland oil with only two? Their popu-
lations were nearly equal. The multiplica-
tion of Houses of Parliament was becoming
fashionable. Wales and Scotland would soon
have theirs. It would be a useful method
for further sterilising the Bill, as half of the
Upper House could be nominated by the
Crown. That system had operated beauti-
fully in England; why not in Ireland?
The Government spokesman was a more
full-blooded ghost. He was the spiritual
embodiment of an English country gentle-
man. He referred to the last speaker as his
honorable and gallant friend. He referred
to other speakers as the honorable and noble


gentleman and the honorable and learned
member for Higgins-on-the-Sea. He con-
gratulated the cadaverous ghost for his able
and brilliant exposition of a difficult sub-
ject, and revelled for a quarter of an hour
in an orgy of compliments. The Govern-
ment was completely converted to the idea
of four Houses. True, the North did not
want two Houses, or even one House, and
the South had shown that it would not
accept even half a House. The Government
had grave doubts whether it would be pos-
sible to set up one House or two Houses or
any House at all in Ireland, but there was
nothing like trying. And, anyhow, what
could poor ghosts do?
A new ghost sprang up, a ghost with a
narrow forehead, a ponderous jaw and. a
rich brogue with a womanish and wailing
note in it, but nothing womanish in the doc-
trine it enunciated. Sir Edward Carson
turned on his fellow-members with a fierce
realism which set their teeth chattering. He
gave the assemblage its true significance of
a board-meeting of hard-faced business men
intent on the protection of their own inter-
ests. Ulster was a better business proposi-
tion than all the rest of Ireland put
together. Murmurs of ghostly exultation.
Ulster had always been loyal to the Empire
and its own interests. If Home Rule were
forced upon Ulster England would lose a
good customer. If certain events (not
specified) were to happen in the south of
Ireland, and England were compelled to take
certain measures (not specified), a Unionist
Ireland would make a good jumping-off place
for whatever operations were considered
necessary. The contemplation of Home Rule
from a military and strategic viewpoint
drove several gibbering spectres to the verge
of panic.
A very old and feeble’ ghost sat crumpled
up and silent through half the debate and
then wandered sadly out. This was the
wraith of Mr. Asquith. A female ghost
talked vivaciously to a stout, expostulatory
ghost, and ’shades in tall hats exchanged
compliments with white shades and pink
shades, laughed decorously at each other’s
jokes and indulged in playful controversies
on the meaning of a phrase. In this lan-
guid atmosphere, after 34 years of bitter
fighting. Home Rule was being granted at
last to Ireland !
Whilst the House debates whether Ireland
shall have one Parliament or two, whether
each Parliament shall have two Chambers
or one, Ireland is already being governed,
not by a Parliament or bv Dublin Castle,
but by gn executive whose very names are
unknown to the British Government. A
copy of its secret Constitution has just come
to light. It declares its Supreme Council
in fact, and by right, the sole Government
of the Irish Republic. It is a Provisional
Government, which will give way to a per-
manent Republican Government when the
independence of Ireland is established. The
eleven members of the Supreme Council are
elected by the votes of eleven electoral divi-
sions, divided into districts which are sub-
divided into circles. The circles are the
units of the organisation, and they elect dis-
trict and country “centres.” Ireland,
including Ulster, is divided into eight divi-
sions ; the North and South of England and
Scotland form the other three. These
secretly elect their representatives to the
Supreme Council, and the Council of eleven
selects four additional members, wffiose names
are. known only to the Council itself, as an
Executive. The anonymous Executive, one of
whom is the President of the Irish Republic,
has power of life and death, the authority
to levy taxes, raise loans, make war or
peace, negotiate and ratify treaties with
foreign Powers. De Valera is returning
from America with a first loan raised on
behalf of the Republic, and the Council has
declared and is actually waging war against
Great Britain. Over a great part of the
country taxes are being paid to the organisa-
tion, it has a secret control over posts, tele-
graphs and railways, making them unsafe
for Unionists to use, and even English land-
owners have taken their suits to its courts
as the only ones able to enforce their
decisions. A Supreme Council controls mili-
tary operations with an army said to number
110,000 men.
This vast secret society virtually controls
all Ireland, except Ulster, and extends into
England and Scotland, which elect three
members to the Supreme Council. Treason is
punished by death, and the use of the name
of the brotherhood outside its meetings is
forbidden under frightful penalties. The
daily list of “removals” in Ireland shows its
ability to carry out its threats. So com-
plete is its organisation that it forestalled a
military occupation of police barracks
throughout the country by blowing nearly a
hundred of them up in one night. Those
Irishmen who are not intimidated by it
actively sympathise with it. A Nationalist
shot a policeman and the policeman shot a
Nationalist. The coroner's jury found that
the Nationalist died from a bullet wound in-
flicted by the constable while the Nationalist
was fighting for the freedom of his country,
and that the constable died whilst bearing
arms on behalf of an alien and enemy
Government.
The military reconquest of the island has
begun and troops are pouring thither. The
new policy of the Government is alleged to
be to approach Ireland with three weapons
—an active military campaign against Sinn
Fein, an attitude of reconciliation towards
the Irish people and a Home Rule Bill in
being. Lawlessness is to be ruthlessly sup-
pressed, while freedom of speech and civil
liberty are to be restored. The first method
is the negation of the second, and even the
community of ghosts at Westminster did not
take their Home Rule Bill seriously.
M. G. SKIPPER.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Wowserism of G. H. Wise.
W. M. Hughes is fond of railing at the
lawlessness of his opponents, but his own
Government sets them a vicious example. In
its attitude towards lotteries and. gambling
generally it talks like the Rev. Worrall and
acts like John Wren. It combines the pose
of Brother Stiggins with the practice of
Issy Moses. When a former Federal admin-
istration put the postal ban on the “consulta-
tion” industry, refusing to deliver corres-
pondence to sweep-promoters and their
agents, the proceeding was morally honest,
though narrow-minded and ineffectual. But
morality went out of the argument when the
Government began to tax drawers of prizes
in, while maintaining its postal interdict on,
Tattersall’s sweeps. By that act it degraded
itself to the level of a “copper” getting his
“cut” out of a two-up school. And it added
a clumsy inconsistency to its hypocritical
covetousness, for it granted all the privileges
of the post, the telegraph and the telephone
to advertising bookmakers and notorious
betting-shops, while affecting to regard Tat-
tersall's as beyond the pale. Apd within
recent months it has piled caprice on incon-
sistency. Encouraged by the equivocal policy
of the Hughes Government, sweeps have
made their appearance in different parts, of
the mainland, generally with the sanction
of the State authorities, who object to Tat-
tersall’s having a monopoly, and would like
to stop the drift of money to Tasmania.
Some of these ’ lotteries have been winked
at by the Federal authorities; others have
been placed under the “Dog Act.” In
Queensland there is a monthly “art union”
for the benefit of the hospitals, and this is
permitted. But a sweep run for the same
purpose in Ivalgoorlie (W.A.) has been sup-
pressed. The Broken Hill miners added
substantially to their strike fund by means
of a sweep on a horserace, which was adver-
tised throughout Australia ; and the Westralian
A.L.P. has raised money for a daily news-
paper by the same agency. In neither case
have the postal authorities interfered. But
when the Westralian branch of the. Returned
Sailors and Soldiers’ League, armed with
permission from the Mitchell Government,
started a sweep as a side-line, being in need
of the money, the Department came down on
it like a ton of mud. Not only the organiser
of the sweep, but the State Secretary of the
R.S.L., who handles thousands of letters in
the course of a month, was put on the pro-
hibited list. And, rightly or wrongly, the
accusation has been made that the Depart-
ment was prompted to take action by the
agents for a rival “consultation” which is
undeAthe “Dog Act” itself. . Why should R.S.
sweeps be stamped out while A.L.P. sweeps
are tolerated? Why should it be regarded
as a merit to run a hospital lottery at Bris-
bane and an offence at Ivalgoorlie? And
where is the justice or the consistency in
clapping a postal embargo on returned sol-
diers and hospital workers because they
happen to be associated with lotteries harm-
less enough in all conscience—when every-
thing possible is being done, by our one-eyed
and oleaginous censors of public morals, to
assist the nefarious operations of blatant
shop-bookmakers? It is an outrageous
example of preference to those who are
handy to the strings. In fact, the whole
policy of the Post and Telegraph Depart-
ment on this subject is an outrage upon
decency and commonsense. And the already
rotten business will look more rotten than
ever when Governmept-controlled sweeps
arrive in N. S. Wales, for the capricious
Puritans of the post, who are also benevolent
patrons of Tommy Rook, won’t dare to lay
an interdict on a State Government. On
general principles, no doubt, sweeps should
not be encouraged. But they have flourished
in Australia for 20 years in spite of postal
prohibitions, and unquestionably they will
continue to flourish until the Government
offers the public a safer and more fruitful
gamble (which isn’t a gamble at all as. far
as the principal is concerned), viz., premium
bonds. The point is that no Government is
morally entitled to bar sweeps and batten
on them at the same time, or to wink at one
sweep-promoter and blot out a rival —to
make fish of one and flesh of another. And
all this is being done by. the incapable and'
hypocritical department which is adminis-
tered by G. H. Wise.
Rural Banks.
A matter of which the N. S. Wales
Government is inordinately proud is its
invention of the Rural Bank —which,
being rural, will pitch its camp, of
course, in the bosky glades of Syd-
ney. But, really, this invention, under a
multitude of names, is almost as common as
mud. Some time before the war little Bul-
garia had 120 of them. Germany has had
them for 150 years, and th.ey are numerous
even in Poland. Sometimes they are State-
owned, but in the majority of cases they
are local and co-operative, with no city ele-
ment about them. N. S. Wales itself
founded a Rural Bank (at Sydney, of course)
in IS99 —the Advances to Settlers Depart-
ment. It lent money at 4 per cent., which
is much less than it will be necessary to
charge now. It still exists as a branch of
the Savings Bank; but if John Storey likes
to start a new one and call it Truly Rural
there is no reason why he shouldn’t, except
that duplication costs money. Turner, in
his stodgy way, founded a Rural Bank in
Victoria in 1896, without even making a big
speech about it, and Kingston one in S.
Aus. in 1895. They are both still plodding
along without fireworks. They haven’t been a
cure for every ill or a source of boundless
affluence for all hands and the cook, but they
have served their purpose. Presumably, the
fresh N. S. Wales concern is to be a big,
open-handed affair, for, according to Minister
Loughlin, “thousands” (he probably meant
millions) “of share-farmers have been turned
out on the roads,” and the bank is to put
an end to that. In 1918 there were, accord-
ing to the latest State statistics, 3461 share-
farmers in the whole of N. S. Wales, they
having fallen off a trifle from the maximum
(4781 in 1916). It was generally supposed
that departures for the war (share-farmers
are mostly young men), a bad crop and the
depressed feeling caused by the miserable
wheat prices were the causes. Nine-tenths of
the share men were on wheat, and wheat
slumped terribly after 1916. The share-
farmer is a temporary sort of person who
takes on his job for a year or two till he
can start for himself and then he turns him-
self out. But if “thousands” have been
violently and illegally thrown on the roads
(quite apart from those who were thrown
on other places)—“thousands” out of 3000 or
4000—the matter should have attention. On
the other hand, the typical share- or journey-
man-farmer owns no land and no house, and
often he doesn’t even possess bis own imple-
ments. In fact, he may be defined as a
swagman, only one with energy and youth
and ambition and possibly brains, who is
making a longer halt than usual on his
journey. If he isn’t that he is a derelict.
He isn’t in the lump a person to lend money
to as a business proposition, though for a
Government that is bursting with imaginary
wealth he is a good enough client. Anyway,
he is good enough to lend somebody else s
money to, if that will make .him better dis-
posed for a while towards the Government
that lends or talks of lending it to him. The
fact that there is already a Rural Bank,
State-owned, doesn’t therefore matter.
Nothing really matters to a Party Govern-
ment if there are no votes in it and where
there is a competition for _ votes there has
to be a competition in the invention of new
blessings. Corruption is not the only off-
spring of Party Government. Humbug is
another of its children.
The Reds Look Blue.
Victorious on the frontiers, 21 Russian divi-
sions invaded the country of Pilsudski,
intent on Bolshevising the Poles and estab-
lishing touch with Germany. The left wing
of the Muscovite army surged up to the gates
of Lemberg. The right wing reached the
Polish corridor and threatened to get between-
the Poles and their one port, Dantzic,
which Avould have cut them off from France
and Britain. Warsaw, the capital, was
menaced from the north and east, and pre-
parations were made by the Polish Govern-
ment to remove everything portable to Cra-
cow. So desperate did the crisis seem, and
so small the prospect of saving W arsaw and
the wreck of the Polish armies, that pleni-
potentiaries were sent to the Russian lines
with power to make peace on any terms short
of national suicide. But the present rulers
of Russia are fanatics with inflated heads,
and the peace they offered was a peace after
Mahomet’s fashion: Bolshevism or the
sword. The Republican armies were to be
disbanded —leaving the country naked .to its
Hun and Muscovite enemies—and a civic
militia organised from the turbulent workers
(many of them Jews) of the Polish cities:
this, it was calculated, would establish a
“dictatorship of the proletariat,” and “dis-
cipline” recalcitrants in the Russian manner.
But the idea of a Red tyranny was so hate-
ful to the Polish nation that it resolved to
fight to the last. Regiments trained in the
old German army hurried to the front from
Thorn and Posen, and from France came
Weygand. Foch’s brilliant lieutenant, with
a splendid staff. Pilsudski, the President,
put himself at the head of one of the Polish
armies, and Haller, who commanded the
Polish legion in France, led another, the
clumsy diplomacy and arrogant pretensions
of the Bolsheviks having united the people
as nothing else could have done. Between
Cholm and Ivangorod, south-east of Warsaw,
a weak point was found in the centre of the
long Russian front. Pilsudski hurled all the
infantry he could muster against this attenu-
ated part of the line and broke it. Cavalry
poured through the gap, and the rest of the
proceedings resembled Allenby’s achieve-
ment in Syria, Trotsky’s ragged regiments
going to pieces when hustled, much as Abdul’s
did. The Poles pressed forward so rapidly
that whole divisions of Reds were enveloped
and captured, and other divisions crossed
into East Prussia and surrendered to the
Germans. It was almost as signal a victory
as Hindenburg’s triumph at Tannenberg,
and it may have even greater results. Cer-
tainly it has prevented Bolshevist Russia
from joining hands with Germany, saved the
Treaty of Versailles from utter ruin, and
shown the world that Poland is still capable
of stemming the westward flow of Oriental
barbarism. Whether the Poles will have
sense or cohesion enough to get the full profit
from their success remains to be seen.
Whether the Lenin-Trotsky regime can
stand the test of failure in battle is likewise
doubtful. What is certain is that national-
ism has proved itself a stronger force than
Bolshevism, and that the ruling minority in
Russia is not going to impose its Oriental
fantasticism on a conquered world.
Is This to Be the Last Census of White
Australia?
Darwin, the one semblance of a' seat of
administration that was ever attempted in
the tropical or better half of Australia,‘has
been emptying fast. Its only big industry
was Vestey’s meatworks, and because a
million of bloated capital was locked up in
them it was supposed that the owners
would have to struggle on no matter what
happened to them. But the union leaders,
who LENiN-and-TROTSKY affairs in that iso-
lated spot, overdid the strike and hold-up
business and shipping difficulties and the lack
of a railway helped them ; so that now the
gigantic place is abandoned after three stren-
uous years. There remained about 1000 tons
of the company’s movables to be shipped
away, and the removal of them promised
some temporary employment; but the fight
between two unions—-the A.W.U. and the
Aus. Meat Industry Employees’ Union —
lately became so fierce that even this job
left off, and neither union shows the slightest
sign of starting any co-operative industry of
its own. The few people who remain live
in hopes of getting work on the great loan
railway from north to south when work is
resumed. But there will probably be a ten-
dency to build almost entirely from the
southern end, for any isolated work done at
the northern end would be controlled by the
same crowd of industrial mullahs who made
so much trouble at the meatworks, and the
sly-grog atmosphere wouldn’t be favorable.
That railway is, nevertheless, the only hope,
for when it comes the Territory will be
within four days of Melbourne and Adelaide,
where people are still moderately sober. In one
way and another the roaring policy of the
Fisher Government, which let the railway
slide and supplied instead a horde of officials
and an amazing collection of departments
(what was one department under the old
S.A. regime was cut into four), has plainly
reached its finish. It was a matter of
pomp and loan and blither, and it has burned
itself out. In fact, a crowded world and a
crowded empire may, after reading the fig-
ures, decide that tropical Australia isn’t a
white man’s land on Australia’s own evi-
dence, and that as a million square miles of
good land can’t go to waste for ever it is
the brown man’s turn.
Cancer and Something Worse.
Dear Bulletin, —An odder lot of non-
sequiturs have seldom come my way than
those which figure in “D.E.’s” communication
(B. 2Q/8/-0), entitled “The Disease that
Nobody Gets Excited About.” The disease
is cancer. It is just on a century and a
half since people began to get really excited
about cancer. Samuel Whitbread, the
philanthropist, endowed a Cancer Ward in
the Middlesex (London) Hospital in 1792,
and it still exists. The British Society for
Investigating the Nature of Cancer was
formed a dozen years later. From that day
to this a tireless campaign has been waged
against the horror in the United -Kingdom.
Many will remember Edward Vll.’s agita-
tion‘on behalf of the Imperial Cancer Re-
search Fund, which resulted in £120,090
being collected and laboratories instituted
all ove'r England. The German Gov-
ernment started to subsidise cancer research
20 years ago, and in addition many millions
of marks have been given by private citizens
to the cancer department of the Institute for
Experimental Therapeutics at Frankfort.
Before the war there were between 50 and
60 cancer laboratories working at high pres-
sure in Germany. France has never been
behind-hand in this field of effort; and there
are laboratories where cancer research is
continuously carried on in the American
States, and notably at the chief universities.
“D.E.” quotes Knibbs to show that, while
in the last 10 years only 1685 persons died
of syphilis and gonorrhoea in Australia, in
the same period 37,661 died of cancer. Such
evidence satisfies him that "Dr. Scarem” and
“Dr. Longbow” are talking nonsense when
they proclaim the seriousness of the V.D.
menace. But it has nothing to do with the
case. No one has ever accused V.D. of be-
ing a direct killer on a large scale. The
lethal effects of V.D. are mostly indirect:
for example, all cases of G.P.I. are now
known to be due to syphilis. Sir James
Crichton-Browne, as one of a deputation
to the British Health Ministry, told the
Minister last month that “they | the special-
ists] were now finding out that a large per-
centage of the deaths formerly attributed to
other causes were really due to venereal
disease.” And addressing the Australasian
Medical Congress at Brisbane last month
Dr. Fourness Barrington (President of
the Obstetrics section) said■
Gonococcal infection was a very devastating and
crippling disease, causing 50 per cent, of all child-
less marriages, and 20 per cent, of all cases of
blindness in infants.
“D.E.” apparently considers that only
alarmist and mendacious medical men quote
disturbing figures such as these. But all the
doctors can’t be fanatics, and one never
hears of a doctor controverting such state-
ments over his own name. The absurdity
of comparing the cancer and V.D. positions
—of pitting the rights of the one calamity, so
to speak, against those of the other —should
be evident. Nothing that is done to dis-
courage V.D. can possibly interfere with the
campaign against cancer. On the contrary.
One of the few things that has been estab-
lished about cancer is that a predisposing
cause of certain forms of it (notably carci-
noma of the tongue) is syphilis. Undying
fame, to make no mention of other rewards,
awaits the man who gives the world a pre-
ventive of cancer. But meanwhile the
disease is as non-preventible as old age, and
there is nothing to be gained by worrying
the public on, the subject of.it. V.D. is in
quite another category. “Nothing could be
done,” said Dr. Barrington last week, “to
stamp it out until it was compulsorily noti-
fiable, but much good would result by teach-
ing the public to regard the disease as very
serious And as surely as the attempt
is made to awaken the public conscience on
the matter, people like “D.E.” and “Mac-
quarie Street” arise and cry peevishly:
“There’s really nothing to worry about.
Don’t be hysterical. Let us talk about can-
cer or drink or golf instead.” —Yours, etc.,
Gunner.
The Coal Export Treason.
The leopard can’t change his spots, but re-
mains blotched all his days, according to the
same pattern. So it is quite natural that a
Ministry consisting mostly of Freetraders
Hughes, Cook and Millen can’t get rid of
the idea that the export of raw material pro-
duced by unskilled white labor is the one thing
needful, and that Australian manufactures,
which employ much more and better-skilled
workers, and tend to make the country self-
contained, are rather a nuisance. For
months a coal famine has been more or less
in view, but lately the situation became so
acute that in Victoria and S'. Australia
almost every industry saw stoppage in sight
and in some cases stoppage actually
arrived. Other States were also in trouble;
in fact, the means of existence of nearly
2,000,000 Australians was at stake. It is not
only that there is a real insufficiency of coal,
the output being far less than in 1913 and
1914 ; there is also a craving to “rebuild” the
foreign export trade that fell away during the
war. Now, this can only be done by starving
the few Australian industries that exist and
making the establishment of new ones impos-
sible. It has therefore become a question
whether foreign manufacturers should be
the first consideration, so that they can keep
their works going full time and make goods
for us, often out of our own raw material
carried away on foreign ships, and send them
back to us on foreign ships, and trade them
off to us at outrageous profiteering rates per
medium of the foreign importer, or whether
our own people should have a look in. Even
when the situation looked gloomy in the ex-
treme, and the problem of keeping railways
and lighting and heating apparatus going was
most serious, the Foreign-trade Prime Minis-
ter, obsessed with the trade craze, said “it
would be a pity” to interfere with this
jobbing-away of our irreplaceable and indis-
pensable capital. A much more patriotic
idea is that it would be a dashed pity and
also a shame and a disgrace not to stop the
suicidal trade altogether. Possibly substi-
tutes for coal may be found, but there is no
assurance of that, and no wise man blows


r Che yiusfraJia.
THE PREMIER HOTEL IN THE COMMONWEALTH
THE RENDEZVOUS OF THE ELITE.
ENTERTAIN YOUR FRIENDS
IN THE WINTER GARDEN at
Morning Tea, Afternoon Tea or
Theatre Supper—Strawberries and
Cream, Fruit Salads, Ices, Delect-
able Confections and Cool Drinks to
your fancy.
IN the DINING BOOMS or
PRIVATE ROOMS at Puncheon.
Dinner or Supper—All meals served
a la carte. Order early and avoid
delay.
Say or 'Phone Your Requirements,
and our Experts do the rest.
The Manager.
'
f, «
out his brains because a substitute for brains
may possibly be discovered. Australia, so
far as is known, is very poorly supplied with
coal for its size and its prospective popula-
tion, and being also short of timber and
water power, the poor supply is far more
serious than it would be in some countries.
Exported gold and silver may come back,
wool and timber and meat may grow, but
exported coal does neither. Its export
means that Australia is disarming itself and
arming enemies and competitors—equipping
their factories and ships to run against us.
And there is no such profit in the business,
after all, as there would be in the export of
manufactured woollens, to quote only one
item. Last year Australia exported, at
great loss of employment and wages, 229,000
tons of wool that wasn’t even washed; 53,000
tons which were washed and so had sup-
plied a trifle of employment, and only 1400
tons that had gone through a simple pre-
liminary form of manufacture. Thereby it
lost far more than it gained by its coal ex-
port. If precedent for the suggested pro-
hibition is demanded —well, there is plenty,
though it shouldn’t matter whether there is
or not. The United States has done it; and
it is 100 times more necessary that’Australia
should do it, since the U.S.A. has oil and
so far we have none to speak of, and its coal-
fields are as vast as ours are restricted.
♦
A look at “the key to India” :
A great deal was said after the collapse of the
war about the danger, especially as regards India,
of annoying the inefficient Turk by taking Constan-
tinople from him and cleaning it up, lest he should
declare a holy war. Apparently something of the
sort has been attempted in India. The mullahs
told how the Allies had laid Mecca and Medina in
ashes, and done horrors to the sacred places of
Mahound. They urged people to rise in protest.
The result wasn’t exactly a rising, but 20,000 or
30,000 shocked natives, with more expected to fol-
low, sold off their few sticks and quitted warm,
comfortable, peaceful India for bleak Afghanistan,
said to be haunted by the descendants of the Lost
Ten Tribes. Each of the Ten Tribes has ten dif-
ferent feuds with the other nine tribes, and the
King’s writ runs about as far as the length of his
leg. That is to say, he rules Cabul and an area
round it, and for the rest he takes pot-luck with the
clans. »
The way to Afghanistan is through the Khyber
Pass, 33 miles long, bounded by cliffs about 1000 ft.
high, and inhabited by seven different kinds of
devils who come out of huts and houses and holes
and gnash their teeth —they have 104 teeth each—
even at armed travellers. Their rule is to kill the
strange Christian for not being a Moslem, and to
kill the strange Moslem for being a different kind
of Moslem. In my time, trade through the Pass
consisted of one caravan each way once a week.
The caravans were .accompanied by a small army
apiece to keep off the teeth-gnashers. At the middle
of the Pass they met and swapped armies, each
force returning to its own territories. It took all
that the officers on both sides could do to keep the
armies from fighting when they met, and sometimes
the older and wiser superior officers of each party
had to haul their subalterns asunder. I watched
the caravan depart once, but I took no ticket by it.
I have a vague idea that the Pass is all nomi-
nally British now, but nothing save poison could
improve the inhabitants. So 20 or 30 thousand
mildly-coddled Indian Moslems went into these
33 miles of jaws of death seeking, at the
instance of their mullahs, some happy land where
the wicked Allies didn’t permeate and the Sultan
was treated with respect. They looked for a cordial
welcome as co-religionists who had broken away
from Christian tyranny and were entering a protest
on behalf of the sacred Caliph. And they were
greeted, after the immemorial habit of the Pass,
with ribaldry, robbery and rocks. The Ten Wild
Animals weren’t moved in the least by the Caliph’s
troubles, for the Afghan is really the Prussian mul-
tiplied by ten and behaves as such. They valued
the figurehead at the Bosphorus at the price of old
boots. So the advance guards of the trekkers began
to drift back, bruised and beggared, with a better
idea of their Christian rulers and new doubts about
mullahs and the like. I believe that if all the dis-
affected colored persons in India could be sifted
through the Khyber Pass (without escort) the sur-
vivors would come back resolved to rend the welkin
with cheers for the British raj all the rest of their
days.
♦
A queer example of the notorious Toryism
of the B.M.A. in Australia is an injunction
which has just been issued to medical men,
through the official organ of the profession,
against “permitting personal notices of them-
selves to appear in ‘Who’s Who in the Com-
monwealth.’ ” If their names do appear it will
amount presumably to the crime of self-adver-
tisement. Or, more accurately, to the wrong
sort of self-advertisement. Yet the names
of prominent doctors appear in similar pub-
lications everywhere else in the world. The
British “Who’s Who” is full of them. That
publication lists also such Australian medi-
cal men as MacCormicK, Maitland,
Charles Ryan and Verco —-anybody, in
fact, who. is deemed to be of sufficient import-
ance to list. What earthly damage can that
do the honor of the profession? Is the
honor of a doctor so much more delicate
than the honor of any other man—any more
delicate than that of Judges and archbishops,
whose names appear in these lists as a
matter of course, and. who revise the sheets
which relate to themselves as a matter of
courtesy to the public? In plain English
there is no question of honor involved. The
simple fact is that the medical profession
derives from another profession in which
“magic” niayed a great part. Mystery had
to surround the practitioner; and there are
practitioners who still think that that is the
proper atmosphere. Those who try to put
that idea into practice are, in these days,
doing their cloth the very worst service they
can render it. And in this particular case
they are, moreover, casting a reflection upon
other bodies of men equally honorable which
is not calculated to bring them friends when
they may be very badly needed.
+
A foghorn signal from Newcastle: —
How is it that inter-State steamers experience such
long delays in obtaining coal cargoes, while oversea
vessels which are arriving in great numbers don’t
have to wait to any extent? The thing is notice-
able, because most of the shipping companies are
interested in collieries, and before the Commonwealth
Government took over their ships owners arranged
loadings to suit the working-hours at the mines.
During the control period no preference was allowed,
and as vessels arrived they were loaded with the coal
available. Subjoined are a few instances of delays
that have occurred recently:—
Chronos arrived 10 p.m., June 27 ; departed 1 a.m.,
July 9; loading time, 267 hours. Nardoo arrived
“Hey, diddle-diddle, the cat and the fiddle,
The cow jumped over the moon;
The little dog laughed to see such sport,
And the dish ran away with the spoon.”
7 a.m., July 1; departed 5 p.m., July 9; loading
time, 202 hours. Hexham arrived 3 p.m., July 5;
departed 3 a.m., July 24 ; loading time, 444 hours.
Iron Monarch arrived 4 a.m., July 9; departed 3
p.m., July 22 ; loading time, 323 hours. Biloela
arrived 5 p.m., July 10; departed 7 a.m., July 29 ;
loading time, 446 hours. Yarra arrived 7 a.m., July
9; departed 8 a.m., July 17; loading time 193
hours. Burwah arrived 5 a.m., July 24 ; departed
9 a.m., August 3 ; loading time, 244 hours.
During the control period vessels used to be loaded
in most instances within 24 hours of arrival. Why
should the foreign buyer be supplied with coal
before the requirements of Australian industries are
satisfied ? A section of the press has stated that
225. 6d. to 275. 6d. per ton is being received from
some of the foreign buyers. It is a fact that some,
if not all, of the coal going oversea is sold by the
collieries at a price lower than that charged to Aus-
tralian customers. In effect, sales have been made
in excess of the producing capacities of the collieries,
and Australia is the sufferer.
“Break'-o’-gauge” : One of the chief objec-
tions raised to the third-rail method for
uniforming the railway gauges is the alleged
impossibility of taking a third-rail track
through large station-yards, and it is claimed
that for this reason the method is impractic-
able. This is simply a Gospel of Despair. The
third {hit. Biin.) rail will not he taken
through existing station-yards at all. It will
have temporary 4ft. B|in. yards and goods
platforms of its own, gt one side or the
other of the existing stations, and quite inde-
pendent of the present yards and goods plat-
forms. For instance, if it be required to
take a 4ft. 84in. train, running on a mixed-
gauge track, into a goods yard, it will simply
be run off the trunk line by means of the
mixed-gauge switches, to the 4ft. B£in. goods
yard, either before it reaches any station or
after it runs past one, according to the posi-
tion of the yard. There is nothing nqw in
having special goods yards and platforms for
gauge-changing purposes. The Great Western
Railway Co. of England had and used them
for many years when changing its gauge from
7ft. Oljin. to 4ft. S4in., and .never were the
big vards interfered with. In our case, when
the 4ft. Biin. train reached Melbourne it
would not run Spencer-street station
—it would have a station, with goods yards
and platforms, of its own, on the Sydney
side of the Spencer-street station, and about
a quarter of a mile or so distant from it.
The third rail would be continued through
to Adelaide, clear of the Melbourne yards,
and would then connect with the niixed-
gauge main trunk line to Adelaide. The
whole third-rail system is simplicity itself;
but unfortunately the officials here know no-
thing of it. Hence the bogies.
♦
In a Sydney police-court a laborer—name of
Peter Davis —was fined £2, in default 14
days, for visiting a gaming-house. A re-
port said: —-
He asked for time to pay, and because the police
asked for security he emphatically protested. Wav-
ing his arms about, he declared in a loud voice
that his work was security. “Can’t you take that ?”
he asked. “Isn’t it good enough for you ? Isn’t
a man’s work”
Sergeant White: Remove that man, constable.
Peter had stumbled upon the germ of a
great economic truth; but the machine-like
legal mind was incapable of travelling the
distance with him. Of course manual work
should be good security up to a point. A
couple of pounds’ worth of sweat, 40 shil-
lings’-worth of elbow-grease—any able-bodied
toiler is in a position to supply these in
liquidation of his liabilities with advantage
to the cause of production. The members
of the lately-formed English Building Guilds
have worked out the idea to such purpose
that they are dispensing with Capitalism
altogether. By pooling their collective
brains and muscle each is always in a posi-
tion to sell as much of his effort as he wishes
to the organisation, which is never idle
because it is untroubled by strikes. It is
a deplorable thing that a man who, like
Peter, is willing to “take it out” in solid
yakker should be condemned by the system
to sit for 14 days in a cell at the expense
of the taxpayers.
Fkom an ex-Army officer:—
There is a great and significant falling-off in the
number of candidates for entrance to Duntroon Col-
lege, and Pearce attributes it to reaction after
the war. Which is bosh. The real reasons are (1)
the low pay of the permanent officer, particularly the
junior fresh from Duntroon, and (2) the shabby way
in which graduates who distingushed themselves at
the Front have been treated by Pearce and his brass-
hats.
The English subaltern who has completed his two
years’ course at Sandhurst, and is married, receives,
on appointment as a regimental officer, £394 per
annum. The Australian, after four years’ training,
which fits him to take an adjutancy in any arm of
the service, gets £250, or nearly £3 a week less.
The Blighty equivalent of the Duntroon graduate is
really a staff-lieutenant who gets, if married, £644
per annum, i.e., more than 24 times the Australian
pay. To cap all, the Englishman qualifies for a
pension of £2OO, whereas his Commonwealth con-
gener, even if retired through disease contracted on
duty in peace-time, is pushed out almost destitute.
It costs about £5OO to put a boy through Sand-
hurst comfortably, so that, from a cold cash point of
view, it is better for Australian parents to send
their boys to the English college, irrespective of
the fact that many lucrative and responsible ap-
pointments are open later in life to the able and
ambitious British regular officer—advantages denied
to the Duntroon man.
The permanent Aussie officer has lots of work
to do at night and on Saturday afternoons and Sundays,
but he cannot claim overtime. His pay as a staff-
lieutenant works out at 13s. Bd. per diem, though
to get through Duntroon he must be much above the
average in both brains and physique. Yet in to-
day’s paper I read that bricklayers are wanted at
235. a day.
The other discouraging circumstance has been
stressed in The Bulletin, viz., no Duntroon gradu-
ate in the A.I.F. was any advance in seniority
or other material reward for distinguished service
abroad ; but all of them were prevented from attain-
ing rank, pay and decorations that, had they not
been Duntrooners, they would have had a right to
expect. It is this short-sighted and selfish policy,
together with the paltry pay offered by a mean-
souled Department, that has chilled the enthusiasm
of one of the finest bodies of young men in the
world, and dealt Duntroon and the Australian army
a staggering blow.
“W’gba” : During the battle of the Hidden-
burg line, my battery (the 104th Howitzer)
was on the edge of a road outside Hargi-
court. We had to sustain in action one of
the hottest spasms of fire to which the bat-
tery had been subjected in the whole war.
Ilun shells were knocking the twigs down on
us from a small bush which overhung our
gun and bursting on the road a few feet
behind us, while a 5.9 had blown out the
gun and crew on our right. I don’t know
why, but indifference (officially “bravery”)
had seized me that morning and I laid the
gun as casually as I make my morning meal
now. According to the accepted standards
I, amongst others, did good service and inci-
dentally gained a reputation for coolness.
Yet there were moments in quiet areas when
a stray shell would propel me like a rat
scurrying to his burrow, with the wind
properly up. How a man conducts himself
is largely a matter of luck, plus tempera-
ment. And that being so, the Labor party
should make an early move for the abolition
of the death penalty for so-called “cow-
ardice.” So long as it remains the law in
the British army its non-employment in
the Australian army is not assured. We
know how hard some of the English “heads”
strove to have it introduced to the A.I.F.
during the last 12 months of the war.
+
“Muricah”: I agree with “Covale” (B.
29/7/’2O) that Australian radio stations
should be 're-shuffled. In its present situa-
tion the .station at Mount Gambier is useless.
Whenever a vessel can work Mt. Gambier it
can also work Melbourne, Adelaide, Flinders
and King islands. After Adelaide is passed
there is a 900-mile gap right across the tem-
pestuous Bight. The receiving gear on Aus-
tralian and M.L. registered ships is specially
sensitive—far more so than that of the coast
stations. Therefore, though a distant vessel
might be able to hear the land station work-
ing, the latter would, nine times in ten, be
deaf to a call from the ship. The Australian
coast stations were dumped down more or
less by accident. Absolutely no tests were
made as to the suitability of the earth be-
neath the aerial, or such possibilities as
“screening” or absorption of the waves by
adjacent ironstone ranges. This latter
trouble makes Rockhampton an expensive
futility. On the important seaward side
it can’t be heard ; on the other side its sigs.
reach Broome. The Navy Department dur-
ing its just-ended term of control did abso-
lutely nothing to improve the efficiency of
the stations. Admittedly tests were made;
but on their proving failures nothing was
done beyond censuring the most junior officer
concerned. Now that an experienced elec-
trical engineer (Lawson, of the P.M.G’s De-
partment) has taken over the Radio Branch,
it is certain that the efficiency of the stations
will be improved, unless his hands and feet
are tied.


u
ML4
SOlfO
RENDROCR
(RACRAROCR)
is Now Available. Made in Australia.
This Favorite Compound is fully 50 per cent, more economical in use than any high explosive.
The ingredients are carried on the railways at ordinary Merchandise Rates.
No magazine is required to store the ingredients, which are quite harmless until combined.
Unsurpassed for Blowing Out Stumps and Trees, and for Subsoiling Land; for Quarrying.
Send for our bulletin, describing its uses.
Sole Proprietors: GUTHRIDGE LTD., 10-12 George Street, Camperdown, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Last week W. M. Hughes told the Reps.
—very gravely, like the incorrigible little
wag he is—that the War Precautions
Act would shortly be terminated “because a
state of peace now exists between Austria
and Australia.” Not one member of the
A.I.F. fell on Austrian soil or near it during
the war, and for the last two years the ruined
old Empire has been incapable of even fight-
ing starvation. There is no more reason
to-day than there was a year ago why the
fiction as to the two countries being belliger-
ents should end —except that Hughes realises
that the public is sick of the imposture
which he has exploited for so long.
Storey bought his Premiership of N. S.
Wales by promises equal to about £40,000,006
a year, by but tremendous fulmina-
tions against alleged plutocrats of great
tonnage, by fervent promises of gaol for pro-
fiteers (Labor supporters, Lord Mayors, etc.,
not barred), and by guaranteeing a fourth
hearing for the I.W.VV. criminals. Now some
at least of the released men are going on in
a way which shows them to be persons
whose guilt was a great deal more probable
than their innocence. In fact, the Premier
has already been moved to describe one of them
as “a man who delights in blood, dreams of
blood, talks blood and wants to wallow in
blood.” Storey goes so far as to say that
prison is the right place for such as he,
which seems to show that the Premier’s office
is the wrong place for Storey, who took the
action that released him. And whether it
was sordid greed for salary or just lack of
foresight or plain cowardice that made
John start the blood-wallower on the road to
liberty, it is equally rough on the people.
A brief amendment of the 1920 Liquor
Act, agreed to by both Houses of the Queens-
land Parliament during the recent hurricane
session, has made a certainty of October 30
as the date of the Beer Pump Referendum.
Whether or not the promised early State elec-
tions’will also take place on October 30 is a
matter on which Government is so far as
secret as crematorial ashes. But already it
can be seen as through polished glass
clearly that the Liquor Referendum is some-
thing from which the liquor trade has little
to fear. The reverse would be the case had
there been included among the questions one
which straightly asked, “Do you favor a
reduction of the legalised hours of sales in
hotel-bars and wineshops?” As it is, “Con-
tinuance,” “State Control” and “Prohibi-
tion” are made the nice points of decision,
to the bewilderment of thousands of con-
scientious persons who believe that a 12-
hour day for bar-sales would be more than a
fair thing.
Although W. J. Vowles was one of the
three rural members who voted against the
Country Party’s separating itself from the
Nationalists in the Queensland Assembly, he
soon thought better of it. The day before
Parliament met he resigned the leadership
of the Nationalists to W. H. Barnes and
became Cocky’s captain. On the surface
the Opposition has ceased to be a united
party, but the split is more apparent than
real. The same thing happened in Westralia
six years ago, but pressure of events obliged
the Country group to join forces with the
Nationalists. When Mitchell went Cabinet-
making he included three Cockles in his
Government, and although the non-Parlia-
mentary eorn-coaxer periodically objects in
a mild way they are still there. At a recent
conference of soil-ticklers, it was proposed
that the three C.P. portfolio-holders should
withdraw from the Government, whereupon
two of the menaced Ministers passionately
declared that it would be tantamount to
Cocky’s committing political suicide. Cocky
saw the humor of the situation, but decided
that he wouldn’t destroy himself.
Premier Storey (N.S.W.), who publishes
a pearl of wisdom almost every day, cast
this before the swirfe on August 21: —
In these days of progressive thought it is neces-
sary to study world events, to watch carefully the
evolving conditions of mankind, and to profit by the
lessons of success or failure as they are demon-
strated.
That morning, Ley, M.L.A., asked John why
shearers and shed-workers, seeking the cus-
tomary aids from the Government Labor
Bureau to go to their jobs, can’t get them
unless they present a certificate from the
A.W.U. that they are pledged to the illegal
44-hours-per-week strike. Some people would
break in on Solomon in the middle of a
proverb.
There was an unexplained delay before
Lieut.-Governor lA>nnon entered the Legis-
lative Council Chamber to perform the cere-
mony of re-opening the Queensland Parlia-
ment. “God Save” had been blared tbr"”"h ;
and all the other dignitaries had repaired to
HOPE FOR THE INVALID.
“The War Precautions Act will shortly expire.” —Daily paper.
HUGHES: “ Cheer up, old chap. There's dirty work going on in Asia Minor. I may
have to declare war on those d—d Kurds!”
the dais, but slow and tense minutes passed
before the entry of Lennon. The story runs
that even at the fifty-fifth minute, Lennon
had desired the modification of several por-
tions of “The Speech,” which was heavily
stamped with Jack Fihelly’s daring and
original style. Still, Lennon read “The
Speech” with every appearance of sincerity,
and no one could better have declaimed that
strictly “non-party” passage in which was
stated the Government’s scorn of bribes and
refusal to bow to the threats of the financially
great who refuse to replenish Queensland’s
coffers.
A note from inside: —
An embittered struggle between Gus James and
David Hall for the N. S. Wales Agency-General was
one of the little tragedies of the Holman Govern-
ment in its expiring hours. Both were members of
the Ministry. Hall was poor and his chance of
re-election remote. Holman was anxious to push
him into a steady job. James is fairly rich, or,
rather, his wife is, and yearned for such social dis-
tinction as the London office would yield. He
threatened to leave the Ministry. Holman palavered
long and earnestly, and James, believing he had a
majority of Ministers on his side, remained. Then
came the day when a vote was taken in Cabinet,
Hall and James being on the other side of the door.
The job, Holman afterwards explained, had gone to
Hall.by a majority of one. James challenged Hol-
man’s word, and there was a scene, subsequently
described as “very painful.” After the general elec-
tion in which Holman foundered, Hall was sacked
by cable, and immediately it was indicated to Storey
that James would be just the man for the empty
job. From that day Storey set out to put the hook
in James’s mouth, and make his majority surer. Of
course James won’t get the London job; but he will
be a Judge, if nothing goes wrong, and the Agency-
General will still be vacant. That will leave room
for Storey to go further with his manoeuvres. In
the art of making a majority he may yet give them
all points.
Vic. Betting Tax brought in £98,755 for
last financial year, including £13,886 from
bookies’ licenses. The increase on the pre-
vious year was £17,623. Members who
assisted to pass this impost are coming
around to the view that there is no real
difference between it and the levying of a
percentage for the State upon the totalisator.
One tolerates or legalises betting as much
as the other: the only difference is that the
sort they have thus far approved is the worse
of the two.
“Bishop” Barnes finds himself in a queer
position in the Queensland Parliament. A
breach had occurred in Opposition ranks due
to the definite formation of the previously
indefinite Country party. Of this defined Coun-
try party Vowles,hitherto leader of the Nation-
alist Opposition, was made chief. “Bishop”
Barnes was thereupon elected leader of the
Nationalist remnant, and he believed that,
as a Nationalist Opposition had operated be-
fore the recess, only a Nationalist leader had
the right to hold the anti-Government reins;
so he marked out central seats for himself
and his deputy-leader on the front Opposition
bench, and assumed that it was he who would
speak first when it came to the Opposition’s
turn to talk back. An appeal to Speaker
Bertram, however, elicited the judgment that,
as Vowles had not resigned his leadership
of the Parliamentary Opposition, he was the
only Opposition commander that could be
recognised. Nobody minded the decision
half as much as “Bishop” Barnes.
It was proposed in the House of Reps, last
week to make it a punishable offence for a
landlord to refuse to let his house to people
with children. Highly creditable of course
to the heart of the indefatigable Maloney who
suggested it. But the National Parliament
has no power, under our Constitution, to
interfere in such matters; and the inevitable
effect, if the States took the step, would be
to make rentable dwellings scarcer than ever.
The real solution of the housing problem is
not penal legislation, but more houses. And
that is chiefly a question of harder work and
fewer strikes. It is but another exempli-
fication of the truth that for every ha’porth
of damage and discomfort strikes do to the
rich they inflict 20 times that amount on the
poor.
The Seamen’s Union js doing its best to
get a good job for Tom Walsh. One of the
90-odd amendments which it wants dropped
into the Navigation Act makes the union a
constituency and gives it a special rep. in e
Fed. Parliament. But the Hughes Ministry
won’t bite.
Martin Hannah has again been turned down
for the Collingwood (Vic.) Assembly seat
in the Labor pre-selection ballot. T.
McAllen, secretary of the Motor Transport
Union, against whose election Martin
appealed successfully, came out on top.
Labor scraps a faithful old servant with as
little compunction as the most bowelless em-
ployer of “the capitalist class.’’
“Liar’’ was the term of endearment heard
most frequently during the censure debate in
N. S. Wales Assembly. “Scab” was also
popular, and “scoundrel” got an airing oc-
casionally. But it was left to Gregory
McGirr, Minister for Motherhood, to plumb
objurgation’s vast abyss. He genially re-
ferred to some of his opponents as “bludgers.
N. S. Wales Parliament always was recog-
nised as the repository of the airs and graces
of polemics.
The British Cotton-Growing Association,
in response to much begging by Premier
Theodore, has offered to guarantee Is. bd.
per lb. for all cotton grown in Queensland
during the next five years. Failing that, it
was understood that the State, though it has
359,000 square miles of tropic land and any
amount of emptiness which aches for cotton
or something, wouldn’t start, and White
Australia could slide. The Australian poli-
ticians of to-day have a large capacity for
making this country look poor-spirited and
miserable.
Brown brother of Japan naturalises no-
body unless that person marries into a
Japanese family, which keeps an eye on his
future conduct, and unless he takes a Japan-
ese name. It keeps the alien out retail
trade, out of practically all the mining busi-
ness, out of trade unions and out of the
land-owning class. And Australia ? In the
Northern Territory the stranger is on the
same footing as the citizen. In Westralia he
can buy up private lands ad lib. South Aus.
puts some slight restriction on Asiatics, but
lets the other slide. Some other places wel-
come him as a bucolic brother if he promises
to become naturalised inside five years. With
these things and his runV>f mining areas, of
wholesale and retail trade and of the trade
unions, he is some pumpkins, while the Aus-
tralian is small potatoes and few in a hill.
Labor’s brass-hats are not all mad. At
Wyndham (W.A.) recently the butchers at
the State meatworks, who are about , the
highest-paid manual laborers .in the Com-
monwealth —they get more money than most
Australian editors —knocked off at lunch and
went to the races. Next morning they de-
manded a full day’s pay, although they had
worked only half, and declined to start
until they got it. Things were looking seri-
ous when the secretary of the union, which
is a branch of the A.M.1.E.U., remarked
with asperity that the sports had broken
their agreement, which provided for the
settlement of all disputes by a conference.
“All right,” said the punting butchers,
“we’ll refer it to the Trades Hall at Perth,”
but from- the Trades Hall at Perth came a
wire authorising the management to close
down the works if the patrons of the turf
didn’t go back. They went back so hastily
that they forgot to ask about the half-day’s
THE SACRIFICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Joel Moses Gabb, M.H.R. for Angas, is returning
his increase of £4OO a year to the Treasury.”
Alone among the pledge-and-caucus band
He spurned the shekels thrust into his hand —
True patriot in a mercenary land.
Exposed to vulgar gibe and ribald jeer,
He threw away four hundred notes a year—-
And things are so astonishingly dear !
A smell that wasn’t in the least like roses
Assailed a score of socialistic noses,
But he alone discerned it—Joel Moses.
Though impish jesters tease him and defame,
An honest heart controls his manly frame—
Posterity will reverence his name. /
Yes, after-generations will rehearse
How Gabb preferred the better to the worse,
And didn’t pick his bleeding country’s purse.
Leonidas who, dying, saved the State;
Horatius, who held the Roman gate—
For these our Moses is a fitting mate.
Let others praise that Norman maiden rash
Who gave Marat a sanguinary gash—
For me a Moses sacrificing cash.
N.B.W.
D. E.
BASE INGRATITUDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Germany has sent a note to the Italian Embassy
at Berlin denouncing the methods employed by the
French in the Saar district. The note states that
France is endeavoring to win the population with a
view to annexation of the territory.”— Cable.
The War is done;
The gentle Hun
No longer has occasion,
With pain acute,
To prosecute
A system of invasion
Whereby he strove
To win the love,
Or earn the approbation,
Of sons of toil
On foreign soil,
By slaughtering the
nation.
Where’er he went
He taught content
By methods of destruc-
tion;
He stooped not low
To win the foe
By practising seduction ;
And, like a friend
Unto the end,
Resisting much tempta-
tion,
With candor fine
He drew the line
At peaceful penetration.
When, ' red with gore,
His mission o’er,
A-we&ry and dejected, ,
He sought reward
For fire and sword,
’Twas not what he ex-
pected.
To-day there stands
On Fritz’s lands,
Beheld with detestation,
A smiling crowd
Of Frenchmen proud
Who hint at annexation.
They never shoot,
Nor play the brute
Like honest Hun oppres-
sors ;
They show no claws —
’Gainst nature’s laws
They are not hog trans-
gressors.
But all the while
With charming guile
And gay insinuation
They strive to win
(0 Lord, what sin !)
The German population.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


i% Priends , truth compels me to
Confess I am no statesman.
Pont vot« for me again."
Telling the truth about-the goods.
Butchers assistant wondering; whether it wouldn’t b« easier /
•fo resign from the Union .
Shop assistant (after a long argument
with satisfied customer) :
“ ; take my tip , this IS
absolutely rotten ~,
stuff. Look i
Policeman:" Whafs up here ’" .
assistant:" Oh nothingJ A customer wanted
eggs , so the boy is breaking some to
/■ind out the truth about W.*
Tram Conductor : 1
me.sir, J
X gave you a bad
shilling in your change.
” But how did it really happen? *
" oh .the wife asked me where 1 was
-the night before, so.as it
was *TVuth day •
T told her ! [ I
House Agent • “ y«s, its a. nice house . But of
course riddled with white ants, a.nd the lasi"
two tenants died of consumption."
TRUTH DAY.
“Shop-assistants shall be called upon to notify all customers the truth about the goods they are selling, showing de"eels in material; and telling the cost
price of each article. All employees engaged in food supplies shall give good weight,”— Threat of Sydney Trades and Tabor Council, to be applied if the Govern-
ment attempts to deport any more Hun or other undesirables.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
BHAS
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms — , .
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products —
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead, Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL. Manager. T. H. SEARS, Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. J. SMITH. London Manager and Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY—
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS, PORT PIRIE, S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES,
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire «
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HIGH-GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification,
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon, Chrome Vanadium, Acid-
resisting or other Alloy Steels of every description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems.
Australian Electric N Steel Ltd.
(Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London),
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W.
Branch Works in course of erection at West Guildford, Perth, W.A.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill Prop., Ltd. —Though not a
single ton of ore was handled at tfie Prop.’s
big mine at Broken Hill during the year to
May 31, the net profit of £517,663 shown by
the directors did not result solely from oper-
ations at the Newcastle iron and steel works.
The Barrier strike commenced a couple of
weeks before the previous year’s accounts
were made up, and, of course, considerable
stocks of metals remained unrealised at that
late. “Certain revenue,” the directors explain
in their latest report, “has been received from
the sale of zinc concentrates to the Belgian
Government, as. also from Adjustments made
in respect to past deliveries of lead and zinc
concentrates.” No indication of how much
flowed in in this way is given, but since
both silver and lead have been fetching
unprecedented prices, and the spelter .mark -t
was also favorable, these “adjustments”
were, no doubt, considerable. Anyhow, gross
revenue from the sale of all products, etc.,
was £3,121,554, compared with £3,481,983 for
the previous year. Interest and transfer
fees brought in £98,651 during the past 12
months. Though no productive work what-
ever was done in the old Broken Hill mine,
its maintenance has evidently been an expen-
sive item: for 1919 mining and prospecting
took £159,087; for the past year, £89,437;
but those figures no doubt also cover opera-
tions at Iron Knob and elsewhere, not for-
getting the Mammoth Molybdenite ground
which was thoroughly overhauled and aban-
doned, though the directors are silent on
the subject. The shipping strikes interfered
with operations at Newcastle, and the short-
age of iron ore resulted in restricting the
output. Wages and costs soared to such an
extent that the expenses charged to the iron
and steel works increased from £1,916,742
for 1919 to £2,118,010 for the. past year. On
all operations a working profit of £850,599
resulted. Deduct office expenses, etc.
(£67,200), income-tax (£241,453) and de-
benture interest (£49,427), there remains a
net profit for the year qf £517,663. Four
divs. totalling £315,000 were distributed
during the period, and as they represented
a 15 p.c. return on the paid capital of
£2,100,000, and gave £12,366 more than was
distributed during the previous year, share-
holders have not so far had to suffer as a
result of the Broken Hill stoppage.
The feature of operations at the steel works
last year was that, despite the shortage of
feed for the blast furnaces, an increased
yield of steel resulted, “due to improved
practice,” the directors say. General-manager
Delprat has got together a brainy team to
run the steel enterprise. Early troubles are
gradually being overcome; until about 18
months ago the work of converting the out-
put of the blast furnaces, into steel by open
hearths was not all it \ might be, but an
altered system of heating the furnaces and
the use of improved Australian-made silica
bricks in the furnace roofs have got this
department into efficient condition. The
magnitude- of the enterprise is shown in
this comparison of outputs:—
1918. 1919. 1 1920.
Pig iron .. 109,154 tons. 155,172 tons. 171,139 tons.
Steel ingots 141,889 „ 178,002 „ 166,772 „
Coke, etc. 109,069 „ 174,040 „ 170,970 „
Sulphate of
ammonia .. 1,718 ~ 2,630 „ 2,618 ~
Tar .. 1,123,235 gal. 1,673,480 gal. 1,913, 358ga1.
The co. last year sold 39,677 tons of the pig
produced, and the rest went through its
ow T n steel plants. The blooming mill pro-
duced 151,681 tons blooms and billets; the
28in. mill put through 73,667 tons, including
54,200 tons of rails; the 18in., 12in. and
Sin. mills between them produced 82,576
tons; the rod mill turned out 23,011 tons
wire rods. Smaller departments are in
active operation, and the management is now
out to catch the last penny in by-products
from the 270,000 tons coal handled each
year. Besides the 8.11. Prop.’s production
on its owp, account, the enterprise has had
the effect of attracting a nest of manufac-
turers around it. Lysaght’s is almost" ready
to commence turning out galvanised sheets;
Ryland Bros., Ltd., is going ahead with a
wire-netting plant, which should be at work
early next year; and there are prospects
of an English co. establishing a tin-plate
industry at Newcastle —all of which enter-
prises assure more work for the Prop, in
future. It is preparing to meet the heavier
demands by putting in an additional blast
furnace, with a daily capacity of about 500
tons pig, which should be running in about
12 months. Meantime the co. has had an eye
on its future iron-ore supplies; during the
past year it undertook thorough prospecting
of the country around its present great iron
deposits at Iron Knob (S.A.), with the re-
sult that two new finds, “of the same charac-
ter and value as the original leases,” have
been included in 560 acres acquired from the
8. Aus. Government. To assure regular
supplies of ore the directors have acquired
two steamships at a cost of £275,000.
Altogether last year £377,614 of capital
expenditure was incurred in conection with
the steel works, which now have a book
value of £3,974,846. The balance-sheet total
exceeds 6£ millions, including these more or
less liquid assets :
Stocks £1,147,306
Book debts .. .. .. 544,470
Shares in Associated Smelters
(at cost) .. .. .. 200,000
Cash and investments .. .. 118,000
£2,009,776
On the other side, at May 31 the co. owed
sundry creditors £993,387, and £801,300 of
the million of 6 p.c. debentures issued a few
years ago wefcd still outstanding. Since the
balance this debt has been reduced by a fur-
ther £53,200. The management can go on
the market (where the issue has lately been
at 1 p.c. discount) to re-purchase until July
next, when it is obliged to set aside £53,000
annually to redeem • the issue at par by
drawings. Besides the paid capital of
£2,100,000, and' the debentures, the co. is
working on- £864,000 of premiums (paid by
shareholders when the last issue of shares
was made) and also £1,593,944 of accumu-
lated profit—the storage of many years.
# * * *
Sargents, Ltd., caterers, etc., of Sydney
and Melbourne, who started with a deficit of
£46,235, representing goodwill (£45,000)
and preliminary expenses:—
Towards
Reduction
Profits. Dividends. of Deficit. Deficit.
June, 1912 . . £7.159 10 p.c. = £4600 £2559 £25,954
Dec., 1912.. 9,308 10 „ „ 4700 4608 21,346
June, 1913.. 9,027 10 „ „ 4850 4177 17,169
Dec., 1913.. 9,412 10 ~ ~ 5000 4412 12,757
June, 1914.. 10,529 10 „ „ 5000 5529 7,228
Dec., 1914.. 11,453 10 „ „ 5000 6453 775
To Re- Re-
serves. serves.
June, 1915.. 8,680 10 „ „ 5208 3472 2,697
Dec., 1915..' 8,454 10 „ „ 5312 3142 5,839
June, 1916.. 9,524 10 „ „ 6312 4212 10,051
Dec., 1916.. 10,140 10 „ „ 5312 4828 14,879
June, 1917.. 8,158 10',/,, 5312 2846 17,725
Dec., 1917.. 6,057 10 „ „ 5312 745 18,470
June, 1918.. 9.734 £0 „ „ 5312 4422 22,892
Dec., 1918.. 5,396 10 „ „ 5312 584 22,9.76
June, 1919.. 2,975 10 ~ ~ 5312 20,639
Dec., 1919.. 9,789 10 „ ~ 5781 4008 24,647
Reserves Capitalised, £25,000 j r
June, 1920.. 15,462 15 p.c. = 9375 6087 ) 0,1
The £25.000 of reserves capitalised a
few months ago gave shareholders two
new £1 shares paid to 10s. for every
five held ; the remaining 10s. per share
is being collected in 2s. Od. calls, and
so far £0467 of new money has flowed
in. This added to the old paid capital
of £125,000 gives £134,467 which share-
holders have put into the business in money
or otherwise ; and on that £134,467 the past
half’s profits were equal to no less than 23
p.c. p.a. During recent years the business
has been made more difficult even than
usual by the continually increasing cost of
foodstuffs, and by all-round heavier working
expenses. Prices and tariffs have, how-
ever, been adjusted from time to time, and
apparently the last revision, in conjunction
with a very rapid increase of turn-over (no
doubt 11.0. L. has forced people to a pie-and-
tea lunch), has given the record figures
now disclosed. The ’flu-stricken half
of 1919 is not a fair basis of comparison, but
a return to the accounts of two years ago
shows that gross profits, after providing for
depreciation, etc., have expanded from
£83.249 to £127,454, while expenses have
moved from £73,513 to £111,992.
The table at the head of these remarks
does not regard a taxation reserve of £lO,OOO
as stored-up profit. But since all current
taxation charges are otherwise provided for,
and this amount is obviously provision to
meet the hard times that will arrive-when
the Commonwealth Government begins to
treat the war debt in a sane manner, it can
not unreasonably be regarded as a reserve.
It is so treated in the following comparison,
which shows the amazing growth of this tea-
and-cake and catering business since it issued
its first balance-sheet: —
lOno 191 t 1990
Capital .. ..£BO,OOO £111,428 £159,467
Liabilities . . . . 12,291 38,418 75,124
Freeholds . . . . 7,100 49,975 128,000
Leaseholds . . . . 12,550 22,000 14,750
Plant, etc 23,758 56,440 65,910
Stock . . . . 2,610 11,143 31,399
Cash, debtors and in-
vestments. . . . 6,904 18,192 19,640
Calls of £3331 paid in advance are included
in the paid capital shown above. Since the
first balance £54.467 of new capital has been
got in. The goodwill for which £45.000 was
originally paid w-as gradually replaced by
tangible assets, and two years ago the item
disappeared from the balance-sheet. When the
first accounts were presented the co. Showed
tangible assets worth (book value) £52,921,
net assets amounting to £40,630. At the
latest balance there were net assets shown
as worth £184,575," an increase of £143,945.
Deducting the £54,467 of new capital got in r
the balance of £89,000-odd represents the ex-
tent to which the business has been built up
out of accumulated profits. Put another
way, since 1909 the co. has been developed
with undivided profits in excess of the paid
capital with which it began, and has mean-
time maintained unbroken 10 p.c. divs. Con-
sidering the class of business and its pitfalls,
that performance is a great testimony
to the management which this co.’s
original shareholders backed. A feature of
operations during the past 12 months has
been the acquisition of new freeholds, the
book value of this .asset having sprung from
£70,000 to £128,000. Mortgages incurred
thereon have advanced from £15,000 to
£50,000, the latter movement explaining the
big increase in liabilities shown in the table
above.
* * * *
Theatre Royal Proprietary Co. (Mel-
bourne)
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Proflts. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June, ’l3. .£l5BO 2l p.c. i £6OO £486 £494 £348
Dec., ’13.. 1775 2i „ „ 600 891 284 632
June, ’14.. 1539 21 ~ „ 600 450 489 1121
Dec. ’14.. 1423 21 „ ~ 600 450 373 1494
June, ’15.. 1447 21 ~ ~ 600 450 397 1891
Dec., ’15.. 1799 3i ~ „ 900 450 449 2340
June, ’16.. 1315 3$ „ „ 900 300 115 2455
Dec., ’16.. 1507 31 „ „ 900 300 307 2762
June, ’17.. 1472 31 „ „ 900 800 272 3034
Dec., ’17.. 1548 31 „ „ 900 300 348 3382
June, ’lB.. 1611 31 ~ ~ 900 300 411 3793
Dec., ’lB.. 2326 31 „ „ 900 405 961 4754
June, ’19.. 2031 5 „ „ 1200 465 366 6120
Dec., ’19.. 2227 5 „ „ 1200 696 431 5551
Hotel delicensing compensation, 600 6151
June, ’20.. 1967 5 p.c. = 1200 465 302 6453
This co. holds a long-distance lease of the
Theatre Royal (Melb.), but is not directly
interested in play-production. It pays £lBOO
per year ground-rent, and in turn collects
rent from its lessees: £7661 for the past 12
months. In addition, it earns a bit from
sinking-fund investments. Approximately,
there is a £6OOO margin in the co.’s favor,
from which insurance, taxes, management
exes., depreciation, etc. (together £3147 dur-'
ing the past year), have to be provided, the
balance being available for divs. and to help
pile up assets which will maintain capital
intact when the lease terminates —in about
30 years. But the margin available for
shareholders is slender : during the past five
years they have had only £9900 in divs. (an
average of only 4 p.c. p.a.), and meantime
only £4562 has been added to reserves. Of
that latter amount £6OO represents compensa-
tion granted by the Licensing Court during
the past half-year, the hotel included in the
property having been de-licensed as from
Dec. 31 last. According to the rent returns
this closure has had but small effect on in-
come. The present position of the co. is as
follows: Paid capital is £48,000, and liabili-
ties amount to £I2SS. Liquid assets (almost
wholly War Loan) total £11,540, and the co.
owns freehold property (used in connection
with the leasehold) having a book value of
£11,937. Its leaseholds and the furniture and
fixtures therein are set down at £33,434. So
£22,219 of the £48,000 paid capital is repre-
sented by assets which the co. can call its
own, leaving £25.781 of shareholders’ money
to be made good within about 30 years. In
other words, assuming that the freehold,
properties are worth no more and no less than
is shown in the books, to assure a return of
capital at the expiry of the lease the manage-
ment will have to find an average of £430
each half-year over and above the dividend
distributions, and after allowing for re-
newals, replacements, etc. As the sinking
fund grows its e/rnings should assist the
property to give the shareholders a better
return, provided no large outlay is called
for on construction.
Sniders and Abraiiams, Ltd. —This co.
took over an old cigar and cigarette manu-
facturing business as from July 31, 1919, and
now the first accounts appear, covering 11
months to June 30. The public is inter-
ested only in the £40,000 of 8 p.c. cum. prefs.
which were offered and all subscribed: the
ordinary .scrip is held by -the old proprietors,
114,494 fully-paid 10s. ordinaries being ex-
changed for the net assets of the old business
(sworn as of that value) and a further 10,408
fully-paids were issued in consideration for
goodwill. The prospectus disclosed that the
ave/age annual net profits for the preceding
10 years had been £7401. which, even with-
out the assistance of new funds, gave a wide
cover for the £3200 required for the prefs.’
dividend. The figures now disclosed are well
in advance of the* profits the prospectus led
investors to expect: notwithstanding strike
troubles and further increases in the cost of
practically all materials, the net profit for
the 11 months, after setting aside £l2OO for
taxation, was £11,379. The co. was not in-
corporated till the middle of November last,
and the £1441 of profit estimated to have
been made during the previous months is
not distributable. That amount and a
further appropriation of £lBB4 of profit are
being used to extinguish the £3326 of pre-
liminary exes. The prefs.’ 8 p.c. for the
period takes £1981; the ordinaries receive a
div. at the rate of 10 p.c., and also get a 3d.
per share bonus, equal to another 21 p.c. foi
a full 12 months. The balance-sheet posi-
tion has changed in this way since the pros-
pectus was issued: —
191?. 1920.
Overdraft •• .. £26,785 Nil
Sundry creditors .. 17,426 £1,504
Other liabilities .. 45,655 11,454
Plant etc • • • • 6,410 6,449
Stocks .. •• •• 98,372 66,189
Book debts i. . . • 35,808 33,893
Cash and sundries .. 5,524 14,375
'The business is now nicely trimmed, though
liabilities have been reduced by shortening
stocks almost as much as by getting in new
capital.
* * * *
John Hicks and Co.. Ltd., which in
1915 took over the business of John Hicks!
Ltd., house and general furnishers (Bris-
bane) p— *
f Dividends \
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Apl., Profits. (7 p.c.). Ordinaries, serves, serves.
1916. .£3024 7p.c. = £2BOO £224 £224
1917.. 377 £2lO Nil 167 391
1918.. 3021 453 5 p.c. = 2000 568 959
1919.. 5477 500 7„ „ 2800 2177 3136
(8 p.c.)
1920.. 6294 574 8 „ „ 3200 2520 5656
Transferred to capital, £4718 .. .. 938
That £4718 of reserves now being capitalised
is bird-lime. New capital is needed, so
23,590 £1 ordinaries are being issued, and
shareholders are offered £4718 of the re-
serves to make the issue paid to 4s. per
share to start witty Thusfar the co.
hasn’t risen to the heights suggested’by the
prospectus. For the four years prior to
1915 net profits were said to have averaged
£6741, whereas since then the average has
been £3638. Moreover, the ordinary divi-
dend has averaged only 5£ p.c. p.a. There
is thus no justification for enlarging the paid
capital- by means of a bonus issue which
absorbs practically all the reserves. The
directors, however, found themselves in a
corner during the past year, and that no
doubt made them think kindly of methods
for raising capital which under other cir-
cumstances they would not have entertained.
The business has been conducted in lease-
hold premises, which needed considerable
alteration to make them attractive and pro-
vide for expansion. But, as usual, the land-
lord was cold and the directors shied at im-
proving somebody else’s property. Finally
the problem was partly solved by the co. pur-
chasing the freehold at a “most satisfactory”
figure. Finance is the real difficulty. Evi-
dently the property cost somewhere about
£24,000, and £lB.OOO has been met by mort-
gage. But the co. was already leaning
heavily on others, for an attempt a few years
ago to raise £30,000 of pref. capital, preferen-
tial as to 7 p.c. and sharing with the ordi-
naries in any distribution above that rate,
resulted in only £7lBO being raised. With
the ordinaries’ £40,000, total paid capital is
£47,180, exceeding liabilities by only about
£3OOO. Even if shareholders come up with
the £18,872 cash which the new issue is de-
signed to produce, the co. will still owe
approximately £19,000 exclusive of trade
debts. The latest balance-sheet figures
compare w T ith those of last year and at the
co.’s first balance as follows: —
1916. 1019. 1920.
Liabilities . . . . £26,517 £19,624 £44,217
Property, plant, etc. . . 11,676 11,833 36,124
Stocks 39,255 39,147 42,255
Book debts . . . . 18,122 20,981 18,736
Cash, etc. .. .. 13 1,030 2,060
Apart from management, the future de-
pends a good deal on the support which
shareholders provide to enable the business
to be conducted on a sound trading basis.
* ♦ * *
The Rivertree silverfield, in the Tenter-
field disti’ict (N.S.W.), is to be given
another go if a Sydney float comes off. The
lodes were discovered over 30 years ago and
a blast furnace was put to work in ’9O. But
high costs and metallurgical troubles brought
operations to a standstill. Later a leaching
plant was put down, and, though large ton-
nages were evidently handled, judging by the
tailings left behind it failed to get out much
of the values; in fact, old records talk of
ore going under 60oz. as unpayable. Later,
small parties went after the higher-grade
ore, and LOOoz. to 150 oz. stuff is claimed to
have been got out; but large heaps of 25-
30oz. material, containing also about 3dwt.
gold, 5-7 p.c. lead and about 14 p.c. zinc,
were left to decorate the landscape. Later
the low price of silver, and high charges
resulted in the field being abandoned. Since
those days metallurgical practice has
advanced, and, further, a “very large for-
mation,” which appears to be the main lode,
has been discovered, and it is of a different
character from others worked. W. H. Tre-
wenack, who sampled and reported on the
field for the promoters, is “impressed with its
great possibilities,” but, though he produces
an array of good values, when it comes to esti-
mating ore reserves he admits that the mine
is not sufficiently opened up to provide defi-
nite figures. Metallurgically he sees no


If your house is wired for electricity, and you are
having trouble with your door-bell because of ex-
hausted batteries, you are being annoyed needlessly.
The famous little Wayne Bell Ringing Transformer
will ring your door-bells with the same current that
lights your house, and will need no further attention
after once being installed. Come in and see it
demonstrated. Australian General Electric Company,
corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Syd-
ney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne.— Advt. [4
* * * *
Water is nature’s thirst quencher for both man
and beast, and unless your supply is pure when you
receive it, much ill-health may result. Dwellers
in the country suffer the greatest disadvantage, as
they depend mainly on tank and river water, which
very often contains impurities and vegetable matter.
One pound of Aluminaferric will clarify 2000 gal-
lons of water. It will not. affect the taste, but will
give you a supply of beautifully clear and pure
water. For further particulars write to William
Adams and Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Also at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide. [3
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe. —Letter received from
Table Cape Municipality, Council Chambers, Wyn-
yard, dated 19th August, 1914: “The five miles 60
chains of Bin. wood pipes (for pressures of 350 ft.
head) which were supplied by you for the Wynyard
waterworks, have proved to be very satisfactory.
They are giving good results. Yours faithfully.
(Sgxl.) H. K. Littler, Town Clerk.” Send for our
illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Company, Ltd., (II.O.) Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and Foots-
eray, Victoria. Contractors to all State Govern-
ments. — Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith/& llassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office ; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colli.son & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Wriie
us for Inventors' Guide. — Advt.
•7 Mix your concrete with Leplastrier’s Patent “Multi-
mix” Concrete Mixer. Sizes from IJ’to 54 cubic
ft. per batch. Drain your roads with concrete pipes
made with ’“Leplastrier’s” “Quickset” Pipe Moulds.
All Australian-made by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.,
Head Office, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * . * .
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins,
C.E. (London); Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work ; contractors advised ; railway work.
90 Queen-street, Melbourne.— Advt.
* » * *
The manufacture of “Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both matine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
Tasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Sydney.—
Advt.
* * * »
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc.; etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, • Sydney. Cables and Telegrams; “Remlap,
Melbourne.”— Advt.
•
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selbv It Co.,
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb. — Advt.
61 YEARS* REPUTATION.
PIONE-ILR Leather Belting'.
?jk d ,tsr.ia by J. c. LXJDOWICI (D. SON LTD.,
TANNERS & LEATHER BELT MAKERS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED IN 1858.
,5
Eight-hour Art Union 8 Sports.
PRIZES VALUE £3500.
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
Drawn OCTOBER 30, 1920.
Ist Prize, value £750. 2nd Prize, value £3OO.
3rd Prize, value £2OO. And 397 other Valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by A. O. and J. 0. Paxton,
of Cairns, Queensland, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
get a ticket and have A CHANCE FOR 1920.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in The Bulletin on
Thursday, November 4, 1920. To any person forwarding
stamped, addressed envelope, a list of the results will be
posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all towns, or direct
from ARTHUR W: YAGER, Secretary, Eight Hour Committee,
Trades Hall, Sydney.
• AINSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in
Australia.
/Losses from Fire, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation, Motor
Car, Plate-Glass Breakage. Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops,
Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
. SYDNEY H. CARY. J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWATtD POPE, General Manager.
trouble, and £30,000 will, he estimates, open
tip the ore bodies and provide a plant to
handle 150 tons per day.
The vendors are so modest that the pros-
pectus does not disclose who they are; and
though there is much ancient history ifi the
document it does not make clear what the
anonymous present owfiets have spent on
the property. The statement is made that
a “considerable amount of practical develop-
ment work has already been carried out”
and that “the cost of this Work exceeds
£12,000,” but how recently this expenditure
was incurred and by whom is not stated.
But there is no modesty about the part they
demand in the float. Silver Hill Mines is
to be in half a million shares of £1 each,
and of the 300,000 shares to be issued no
less than 140,000 fully paids, together with
£25,000 solid cash from the 80,000 offered
the public, are grabbed. The register is
to be further inflated by the issue of one
bonus share for each contrib. when fully
paid. The promoters’ appeal would have
been made a little more convincing if Tre-
wenack’s say-so had been backed by a report
from another expert—a £300,000 register is
too large a burden to make one man respon-
sible for^—and the float would look healthier
if more was told of the vendors’ part in the
deal.
* * * *
John Brandon’s Round Hill, three or four
miles north of Broken Hill, has been opened
up a bit since it went into the hands of the
Marshall brethren. On a formation exposed
in crosscuts put east from the old Nos. 2 and
3 shafts, it is claimed that Cundy, of Bendigo,
has been put in a position to “map out the
course of the continuation of the main Broken
Hill lode right through the property.” Even
so. there’s no guarantee that the main B.H.
lode is going to be worth anything at Round
Hill. Development work to-date has cost
£lBOO, and when the Barrier miners restart
an attempt is to be made by using the dia-
mond drill to pick up ore on what is termed
the “centre line.” Nothing further will be
done until the Government geological survey
is available, and that may quite likely fail
to back up Cundy’s generalisations.
* * * *
Kingsgate Molybdenite (N.S.W.), like all
other shows of the kind, is at a standstill
after having opened up the pipes of ore till
they glisten with the lustre of the silvery
metal. The mill floors have concentrates
stacked on them, but there are no buyers.
The co. still owes vendor Yates £5OOO, and
as it has had to pay to get its mill into pro-
per trim, as well as to make sure that the
molybdenite had not cut out in the pipes, it
no doubt runs a bank debit. The directors,
while not despairing of a revival of the
demand for molybdenite, advise that calls
will be made as light as possible. The shares
of the co. never trickled on to the market,
so the burden of keeping the co. financial
will fall mostly on the originals in the pro-
motion, which is as it should be.
* r
The latest devfelopment in connection with
Federation and Mt. Owen is not at the
mine but in Pitt-street. The management of
that Gloucester district (N.S.W.) show has
failed lamentably in carrying out prospectus
anticipations—the Federation mine itself
was supposed to be such a gift to share-
holders that within a couple off months of
getting to work it was to have been making
money. A while ago, after the co.’s shares
had been boomed to ridiculous prices by a
few high assays struck in the Owen, a quite
unenthusiastic Mines Department report
was issued. But the market Avas not alto-
gether rattled, and the bears considered that
there was still a comfortable margin between
the actual values and Exchange quotations.
Now some smart people have undertaken a
little bear-taming with the help of a corner
in scrip. Where and when it will end
is not clear at the moment, but if the
bears are scalped, almost certainly a lot
of small and innocent outside holders will
also be. These cornerings usually result in
a few smart Alicks making a punch,, and
leaving the general body of shareho’ders to
carry a sick baby to whom nobody will toss
even a brass farthing.
* * * *
Francis Drake, who 20 years ago was one
of the best-known mining men in N. S. Wales,
returned last week —he has. been in London
—to set the wheels going for an English
syndicate which thinks that old mines in
Sawpit Gully could now be made to pay
handsomely.
* * * *
“Geebung” : The output of a coal-mine is
restricted by the capacity of the trucks avail-
able, and, notwithstanding that all thm. big
Newcastle mines are endeavoring to add to
their rolling-stock to enable them to cope
with increasing demand for their output,
they are greatly handicapped by the very
limited supply of wheels obtainable within
Australia.
With the assistance of the gold premium,
a profit of £6684 was made by the AI.
Gaffney’s Creek (Vic.) as the result of hard
slogging during the half-year to June. But
though this gives the directors £3OOO-odd of
cash to play with, shareholders get no div.
The directors are holding on to it as a re-
serve to meet further development work.
But, on the other hand, they are nervous
about “the general economic conditions,” not-
withstanding that John Till declares that
prospects in the northern portion of the dyke
basin look promising and that the southern
part of the mine over No. 5 level is opening
up “most satisfactorily.” But the crowd on
the bridge, including the “Money” Millers,
talk seriously of whether it is not to share-
holders’ interests to abandon further pro-
specting, pull out all the payable stuff lying
about, and then shut down. In view of all
the divs. that have been got out of the AI
and the fact that the show still manages to
pay its way, the attack of cold feet looks a
little premature.
Here is a comparison of Bendigo Amal-
gamated’s performances to date :
1918. 1919. 1920.
Production 146,769 tons 112,977 tons 102,194 tons
Gold won 34,1870 z. 29,2540 z. 53,4950 z.
Gold realised £134,390 £120,947 £273,364
Tributors’
gold .. 6,9410 z. 11,7680 z. 8,5620 z.
What Constellation has meant is evidenced
by the fact that it provided 16,086 tons and
35,6090 z. gold, a grade of almost 2ioz.,
resulting in the year’s average being im-
proved to 12.14dwt., compared with 7.27dwt.
for 1919. Of the £273,364 received from
gold won by the co. on its own account no
less than £62,738 represented gold premium.
But the glow from Constellation was dulled
by the falling aggregate output; the Amal-
gamated’s big trouble is that no new dis-
coveries have turned up to maintain the
supply of battery-feed Still, general-man-
ager Arthur Moline sees hopes in two new
reefs in the Nelson; in the big reef below
640 ft. at the Monument; in the Northern
extension of the Central Blue reef below
960 ft. in the Hercules: and in the spurry
formation in the Unity at 1255 ft. While pro-
spects are being determined in these direc-
tions Cofistellation promises to keep the pot
boiling. Though the stone there is becoming
smaller and poorer, good profits are looked
for until at Beast the close of this year. But
a pleasant surprise may be waiting in this
Constellation reef, or at least what Moline
is almost certain is that make, which has
been met with from 558 ft. in the McDuff
shaft. Costs are the bugbear; including
development, they ran out at just over 31s.
6d. in 1919; for the past year they almost
touched 3Ss. 6d. per ton. Moline has a lot
to say on the matter, and gives interesting
detailed comparisons going back tb the ’nine-
ties. Aparf from economic and industrial
influences, which he declares are “compara-
tively favorable,” the problem is to
develop ore supplies. The co. last
year handled 4000 tons per fortnight,
and Moline adds that he has the
plant to put through double that output with
only a comparatively small strengthening of
the staff. Losses of £58,841 and £7784 re-
spectively were made for 1918 and 1919; last
year, thanks to the Constellation, a net pro-
fit of £IIO,BSI .resulted. A first div. of 6d.
took £37.976, employees got £6250 under
their profit-sharing scheme, and £20,000 was
spent on new plant. The co. closed its year
with liquid assets amounting to £82,641 (all
but about £lB,OOO cash assets) and owed
only £6463.
If the Vic. Government grants an inquiry
into the Badak tin business Judge Wasley,
of the County Court, may be asked to con-
duct it. But the Government’s powers are
very limited. If witnesses who are liable to
find the Commission a gridiron go across
the border on a health tour, they cannot be
reached unless Hughes also makes it a
Federal Commission.
* * * *
For the June half Bendigo Al, which runs
the New Moon and North Argus, got 6870 z.
from 2989 tons and received £l9O for 33*
tons pyrites. With development proceeding
all the while, a loss of £2521 resulted. The
co. is far from comfortable financially: it
owes £10,175 to the State and £917 to sun-
dry creditors. Altogether £31,000 has been
sunk in development and plant. The drift
has been pathetic, and it is only natural that
the directors should wail about the cost of
labor and commodities and not surprising
that they should consider whether it would
not be better to get out the payable shoots
and close down. The temptation to go
ahead is that since yields have improved of
late there are hopes that the two mines will
become'self-supporting. A big block of un-
developed ground lies to the north at 1200 ft.
in the New Moon and south at 800 ft. in the
North Argus. A little Iqek in yields might
hearten the Board to prospect there.
Kalgoorlie was badly knocked by the Hamp-
ton Plains boom, and is now staggering under
the weight of its debts. Most of the share-
brokers have closed up ; pubs which did well
for a time are empty; taxis rarely out of
a job day and night a few months ago are
idle, and storekeepers are overwhelmed with
unpaid accounts. The only bright feature
about the town is the local newspaper, which,
despite all that has happened, still expresses
unbounded faith in the field, and continues
to write cheerfully of the appearance of
lodes and reefs. Meantime, the Government,
apparently apprehensive of the field’s future,
is delaying the extension of the water scheme.
Celebration Junction has decided to aban-
don its option, so Hampton Plains receives
another bump. Since the directors issued their
lugubrious report on July 29, some more
prospecting has been done at the water-level
at 2uoft. Put results were a blank. The
next move will be to wind up, but there,
won’t be many pence per share available. '
Determined efforts are being made to
boom Mt. Monger (W.A.). Gilded reports
are being issued, considerably more ore than
is actually in sight is alleged to be avail-
able for stoping, and interested cos. are
clamoring for the installation of a State
battery. There are several claims which
might be profitably worked for a time by
small parties of miners; but they are not
likely to make money for the cos. now hand-
ling them, because they are so ridiculously
capitalised.
St. Ives (W.A.) has produced a develop-
ment which may give the field a leg-up.
Reports of rich surface finds and high assays
from shallow workings failed to attract the
market, so some of the cos. operating there
decided to pursue a policy of genuine develop-
ment. Ives Reward has struck a big body of
sulphide ore at a depth of 30ft,, and down
to 60ft. values are good and prospects pro-
mising. Dorrie Doolette has secured options
on i all position ground to the north oj the
Reward, and Adelaide promoters are trying
to do business with holders of some of the
other adjoining blocks.
Shareholders in the newly-floated Kanowna
Red Hill (W.A.) won’t have to wait long
for results. About 250 tons of ore have
been raised, and crushing at the rate of
between 20 and 40 tons a day will commence
shortly. The first parcel will probably be
about 600 tons, and the return is likely
to make Hampton Plains envious.
The remains of Gt. Fingall (W.A.) are
in the hands of tributors, who want, and
have a good chance of obtaining, a loan of
£l5OO from the Government to get at a
block of 8000 tons of ore at 400 ft. which is
believed to contain 16,0000 z. of gold.
A circular recently issued in London by
the Ivanhoe Board tells how that co.’s
Westralian mine is suffering from the labor
shortage, which is preventing the treatment
of sufficient tonnage and making it difficult
to maintain the grade of ore treated. In
view of the conditions prevailing, the direc-
tors warn shareholders that regular quarterly
dividends may have to be discontinued,
interim ones taking their place as circum-
stances permit.
* * * *
The Speck is experiencing quite a boom in
coal. The Government is considering the
appointment of an inspector to cope with
the increased activity. A new co. at Fingal
has re-exposed an Sft. seam of allegedly
good steaming quality, overlying a thick
bed of first-class fireclay. This measure is
attracting considerable attention, as the
probable area is extensive.
Bisehoff Extended (Tas.) is to . resume
operations again early this month. Since the
strike Manager Schell has been obtaining a
large firewood supply and pushing develop-
ment. A new 4ft. quartzite formation off
the No. 9 crosscut is running about \ p.c. tin.
The opening up of payable ore at this depth
will place the old mine on a solid footing
again, and greatly extend its life. Negotia-
tions have been successful for the purchase
of power and ore from Bisehoff. With cheap
electrical current replacing the steam plant
costs should be more in keeping with the ore-
grade available.
* * * *
Round Hill silver-lead (Tas.) should give
a good account of itself during the coming
summer. It is well equipped and is turning
out oyer 100 tons marketable ore per month
working only one shift. During the past
three months about 500 tons have been
shipped to Cockle Creek, and there are about
300 tons at the mine awaiting shipment.
Developments have continued good for the
past two years. Driving has proceeded on
a lode averaging 18ft. wide, carrying a fair
percentage of concentrating ore, with some
bunches of firsts. This lode has now
junctioned with another, and they appear to
cross. At the intersection the material is
40ft. wide, carrying abflrit 25ft. of good con-
centrating ore. The level above (No. 2) has
just come into good ore at a point 200 ft. be-
hind the main or No. 1 level. The mill has
been producing one ton concentrates from
every seven tons crudes, the concentrates
averaging over 50oz. silver, 55 p.c. lead and
almost 3dwt. gold per ton.
* * * *
Story’s Creek Tin, Avoca (Tas.), which
also turns out wolfram, has followed the lead
of King Island Scheelite and temporarily
put up the shutters. The latter has about
40 tons and the former 30 tons tungsten pro-
on hand. Scheelite closed down vol-
untarily ; the diggers did the job for Story's
Creek. Though working under a Federal
Arbitration Court award, they downed ham-
mers and drills and demanded that West
Coast rates of wages should apply to the
East Coast. It was a blessing camouflaged
for the syndicate, which ever since April had
been reducing the contents of its sporrans
by over £lOO per week to finance the wolfram.
* * * *
As anticipated the No. 5 level extension in
North Mt. Farrell (Tas.) has exposed high-
grade ore at the junction of the two lodes.
Reports indicate Bft. of high-value milling
ore, and over a foot of prill ore.
**» * *
Ilampden-Cloncurry (N.Q.), after pros-
pecting the Koh-i-noor leases for the past
six months, has decided that the show is
not of sufficient importance to bother about,
so the option has been abandoned. Probably
the distance from headquarters (130 miles),
together with high railway freights, mining
costs, etc., were factors which influenced
g.-m. Erie Huntley.
This .should be cheerful news for Aussie
platinum diggers. There is such an acute
shortage of the metal —nine-tenths of the
world’s supplies came from the Urals before
the Russ turned Bolshie —that Sir Richard
Redmayne, who chairmans the Imperial Min-
eral Resources Bureau, announces that his
organisation is out to tooth-comb the plati-
num resources of the Empire. The Common-
wealth is included in his list for investiga-
tion.
(Continued on page 22.)


IpmuJ
,dV h ( /(■
s' %
V\ i* f . r
r uf f** m i
jJ r, 1
VvP-
fit Iretn.
iLf e/ea Iks, Country
tyem (rers millU !
V/ty wnll% Thai’ Crops
“SIDE-WHISKERS ARE RETURNING TO FASHION.”


u
For Week-end Holidays.
September brings the mild weather favored
for week-end holiday travel. For such jour-
neys when little extra clothing as required a
kit-bag serves the purposes.
The Peapes’ Hand Kit-Bag is made of solid
leather over .stout iron frame. Fitted with
nickel lever slide-lock and end-clips. A bag
that will retain its shape during many years
of constant use.
14 16 18 20 inches long.
38/6 42/6 47/6 52/6
Peapes’ devote a department especially to the
requirements of travellers, who may there
obtain a complete kit for long or short
journeys.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George St., Sydney.
BOND’S TRIPLEWEAR HOSE.
Made in Australia.
AN IDEAL HOSE,
combining wonderful wear with beautiful
appearance.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in ■ every detail, and,
under the management cf Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home ere assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
MINCHINBURY
THE SINNER.
Do you think the errors of the fathers are
visited on the children?”
“Not on me! I never follow dad’s tips.”
The Bulletin’s Melbourne office, which
had been at the Qld Exchange for a quarter
of a century, was shifted last week to 268
Flinders-street. Other old tenants made a
hurried esit from the ancient building a
year ago, on the understanding that its new
owners, the Commonwealth Bank, might pull
it down at any moment and erect a palace
of finance on the site thereof. Byron Moore,
whose name had figured on the ground floor
windows since time was, got a particular
warning to clear out and make room for the
urgent banker, but the premises he vacated
have been re-let on short lease to another
tenant, and the offices which The Bulletin
made holy may likewise be desecrated by
temporary occupants, whilst the Common-
wealth Bank is trying to make up its mind
when and at which end of the vast free-
hold it will start re-building.
* * * *
“Hamer”: A man who has discovered a
new business has been “working” the Syd-
ney suburbs. Representing that he is from
the Fair Rents Court he ascertains from
tenants what rent they are paying and who
is their landlord. Then he goes to the land-
lord and offers, for a consideration, to get
him a tenant who will pay an increased
rent. When he strikes a willing landlord
he hunts up the kind of tenant who adver-
tises that he (or she) is yearning to pay
“£5 for key,” and thus he is “on” a bonus
both ways. It seems a delightfully simple
w#y of getting a living, and there should be
money in it.
“Whitehall”: A painful feature of the
Prince’s visit was the inevitable ass who
emerged from the crowd and addressed him
as “Teddy” or “Dig”—as Jane Austen
quaintly puts it in “Emma,” “with all the
vulgarity of needless repetition and all the
insolence of imaginary familiarity.” Another
painful feature was the young man’s ap-
parent inability to put these people in their
place. There is no more pleasing little
story in history than that of the. first meet-
ing of Charles 11. and the youthful Penn,
who was bursting at the time with tlie self-
importance of newly-found holiness. Charles
was in his garden and Penn stood with his
hat on. Charles took his off. “Why are
you uncovered, Charles?” said Penn. “ ’Tis
the rule here that but one should be covered,”
replied the King. Edward Vll.’s rebuke as
Prince of Wales to Mrs. Brown Potter
when she put the ice down his back was»not
nearly so effective. He hurriedly left the
room.
* * * *
“Ex-Dig.”: Ripples from the Great Dis-
turbance have washed strange name-plates
upon the fronts of Australian houses. In
my walks abroad I see many “Pozieres,”
“Bulleeourts” and “Romanis,” “Lone Pines”
and “Gallipolis” are also common and “Vil-
lers-Bretonneux” is frequent. War widows
seem to cling pathetically •to the names of
the places at which they were widowed.'
And in spite of feminine influences the Dig-
ger will have his joke. One of them has
called his place “The Clink” (he must have
a dbcile wife), and another habitation is
known as “Thudville.” But the title I like
best is “Ryanthenarlc,” a name that ex-
presses a lasting opinion about the doctor
who was known affectionately to the soldiers
as “The Gutzer King.”
* * * *
“Teacher” (Melb.) : I often take my boys
into Albert Park, sometimes for games, some-
times for drill. The other afternoon I
had about a hundred of them drawn up,
and was putting them through simple
movements, when J found their attention
distracted by a man.who had been sleep-
ing on a seat' but who now approached
and was watching proceedings with in-
terest. He was an object-lesson on the
folly of the simple life —dirty, ragged, dis-
tinctly unpleasant. When I asked him
to be good enough to stand aside, he re-
garded me with a small yed eye. and sud-
denly voiced his feelings. “What,” said
he, “is there another war?”
“Macquarie Street”: The Melbourne
dailies, being up against the new Charities
Bill now before the Assembly, have been
hard at work throwing boiling suds on the
scheme, and have hinted that the council
of the B.M.A. is not in favor of inter-
mediate hospitals. They have, however, had
the wind taken out of their sails by a meet-
ing between Mi-. McPherson (Treasurer)
and a representative of the council, whereat
the scheme was amicably discussed and
slight alterations in the Bill were suggested
to make the new hospitals more acceptable
to both doctors and public. If these insti-
tutions were started by Government with-
out the active co-operation of the doctors
who are to do the hard work, the scheme
would be foredoomed to a brief existence
and complete failure, since the running of
such places on a paying basis depends upon
the public having confidence in the medical
attendants; and to make even one inter-
mediate hospital successful in a city the
size of Melbourne it must in particular have
the enthusiastic support of some of the
surgeons who do the big operations.
For my own part I think that the
intermediate will really suit- the man
in the front rank as well as it will
the young surgeon ; for, though the former
won’t get the 50 guineas which he has been
able to command in a limited number of
cases, he will, in the intermediate hospitals,
get more of those operations which, the
young or lesa well-known man has been con-
tent to do for, say, *2O, and he will do them
at that same fee or thereabouts. The inter-
mediate will thus, it seems to me, prove a
great leveller, so far as fees are concerned.
The public will benefit in this among other
ways: it will be able to command the ser-
vices of first-class men. Both our big cities
have a dozen operators who could do two
or three or four times more work than they
actually do. The public at present loses a
SPOTTING THE WINNER.
THE GOOD YOUG MAN : “Speaking of engagements, don'tcherknow, it's scarcely the
correct thing, y’know, to congratulate the fiancde.”
THE BAD OLD MAN : “Ya-as. In most cases it’d be nearer the correct thing to con-
gratulate the mother.”
great deal of their possible services, and is
attended by less capable or experienced men.
Intermediate hospitals will provide a means
for bringing the public and these first-class
men together.
* * * *
“Ex-Dig.”: When Lieut. Mclntosh said
that the Dutch in Java took more interest
in aviation than the average Australian he
expressed a lamentable truth. The import-
ance of the aeroplane, in peace and war, is
realised by few of our own stay-at-homes.
At the end of things in 1918 the ’plane had
become an indispensable adjunct in all in-
fantry work; and had the war continued,
each battalion would probably have had
its own air ’bus just as it had its own
baggage-train. In the model stunts towards
the finish it was the ’plane with word fro,m
H.Q. that gave the signal for the commence-
ment of each stunt. And when the first posi-
tion was, attained, the infantry signalled the
information by a flare (burnt in the bottom
of a trench, so as not to 'enlighten the
enemy), and the ’plane would drop flares
which told the artillery to shift its range
ahead. Further movements were followed
by the aerial scout in the same way ; and, if
necessary, the ’nlane could race back to
warn “stand-by” troops to move up. The speed
of the flying-machine ■ secured a swifter co-
ordination of movements: it could convey
orders from H.Q. in a few minutes by pre-
arranged signals. And this was pre-
eminently useful work, for owing to unrelia-
bility and the tricks of the enemy, the field-
telephone, as far as front-area work was con-
cerned, had long been cut out.
* * * *
“Spare Corp.”: It used to be remarked
that the untidiest Digger in the line —the
chap who was all whiskers, mud and rents —
was generally the dandy of his battalion
in the Strand. By a paradox equally strange
the man who was an efficient and self-reliant
soldier is in many cases a gloomy failure in
civil life. . One expects to find leadswingers
loafing on Repatriation benefits, but the
transformation of an alert and capable sol-
dier into an inert and helpless civilian gives
one a shock. I have in mind the case of one
man who got the D.C.M. and an M.M. for
displaying initiative and resource in action,
yet who, since his return, has drifted hope-
lessly from job to job, not because he dis-
likes work, but from sheer inability to man-
age his own affairs. When last I met him
e was back in his khaki, simply because he
had no other clothes to wear. He explained
tnat he had made up his mind to get a job
where clothes and food were provided, be-
cause he simply couldn’t make his money
last the week out. But this case is by no
means uncommon: an amazing number of
ex-soldiers who have grown used to having
board, lodging and clothing supplied to them
seem unable to grasp that these things have
to be found out ,of the cash tlipy draw week
The truth probably is that they
are not yet normal; in short, it is not a
matter for castigation, but for thoughtful-
ness and friendly help.
“I).E.”: In view of all that has been
printed in Australia about the efficacy of
prophylactic packets in France and.on the
Horseferry-road front, it is rather amazing
to find Colonel R. J. Millard telling the Aus.
Medical Congress that “the supposed protec-
tive outfits issued to the men did more harm
than good.” When the next war came along,
Dr. Millard added, he would cut them right
out. Which reminds me that when the to-
proph.-or-not-to-proph. controversy was rag-
ing in Britain, a London doctor discounted
the extravagant claims made by the packet-
philanthropists. He said'that the best prophy-
lactic he knew of was soap and water.
SIGNS Of spring.
T HE MAN: “Keep under the umbrella, my
love; you're getting wet."
Long ago, when in practice at the Bar,
Griffith had a case submitted to him for his
consideration. A litigious railway-contractor
reckoned he had good grounds for an action
against the Government, and his solicitor
drew up a long statement of the case for
counsel’s opinion, concluding with the usual
query, “On the facts above submitted, will
an action lie?” Griffith’s “opinion” was brief:
“Yes, if the plaintiff does.”
BORONIA DAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, do not think, because you mock
Old Winter with her shrewish tongue,
And o’er your green and golden smock
Her mist-grey mantle you have flung,
Oh, do not think deception lies
In such disguise!
For on the hillside yesterday,
Though you believed you went unseen,
Oh, elfin Spring, I watched you play
Barefoot, in smock of apple-green,
Stitched lightly o’er twixt fold and fold
With heather’s gold.
I saw you dart at hide-and-seek
Behind a native rose’s screen,
And would have kissed your carmine cheek,
Glowing the small green leaves between,
But damask flowers the bush put on,
And you were gone
To peep with dusky violet eyes
Out of the sarsaparilla’s tangle,
Then, mirthful at tnv dumb surprise,
With pink-tipped fingers slim a-dailgle,
To lie among the leaves at ease
In sapling trees.
Singing you ran from hill to hollow
Where now epacris needles throng,
And, breathless, it was mine to follow
That I might see you at your song!
I heard you trilling in the brush
And found a thrush!
But do not think I did not see
How to the hillside yestermorn
You blew a kiss entrancingly,
And straight the dreary ti-tree thorn
Stirred, and was flushed with sheer delight
Of pink and white.
Ah, Spring, ’tis vain for you to mock
Old Winter with her shrewish tongue,
When through her coat peeps out your smock,
And blue-wrens build, and sweet is flung
The scent of brown boronia sprays
Down August’s ways.
N.SiW.
NINA MURDOCH.


"Give Me the
Large Size Please”
BONN!
CAM
BonniNGTorn
BONN
ItNIIHiT
im
IRISH
IRISH MOSS
IRISH MOSS
£iSS33S»
tSMUEHW
ILOTT
Wise women realise that
proportionately more value
large bottles of
there is
in the
FOR COUGHS AND COLDS.
Now that so many colds are going about—
a large bottle of Bonningtbn’s may provide
sufficient doses to prevent Colds, Influenza,
Coughs, Bronchitis, Asthma, and Chest com-
plaints, affecting the whole of your
v family. Sold everywhere.
BA. 21.
0]
&
s^;
CfcA-
McGill Antopower
Attachment
for fitting to a Ford Car to
make it run any belt-driven
farm machine that a 12-h.p.
gas-engine will drive. It will
do it at less expense, and
positively cannot harm the car
in any way. Will operate
Shearing Machines, Chaff Cut-
ter, Corn Sheller, Feed Grinder,
Cream Separator, Milking
Machine, Pumps, Wood Saw,
Concrete Mixer, Electric Light
Plant.
When once fitted can be de-
tached in five minutes.
Canadian manufacture.
Price, complete with Automatic Governor,
Friction Clutch and Auxiliary Fan. . . .
£35
Country Agents wanted.
Sole Agent, also for FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCKS made in 1 ton,
I£, 2, 3£ and 5-ton sizes,
H.W. CROUCH, 26-28 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
“Ex-Dig”: Nerves played strange pranks
with men at the Front. I have seen a
regular giant, (sft. 2in. and broad in propor-
tion, kicking his legs like a frightened child
as he lay on the ground in a paroxysm of
terror—itself a most unnerving sight. And
I have seen a little runt of a man whose only
sign of the fear that was chilling his heart
was a bleeding lip, bitten convulsively in a
frantic desire to keep his terror from public
view. There were men who, though
recklessly brave as ordinary soldiers or
minor n.e.o.’s, were dismal nervous failures
ar, officers, the sense of responsibility
overcoming them. Others who behaved
indifferently as Diggers bore themselves
gallantly as officers, responsibility being
just what their nature wanted. Differ-
ent kinds of ironmongery put the wind up
different men. The casual heavy stuff that
landed well back from the line was the in-
animate foe I feared most, but I was never
seriously disturbed by machine-gun fire,
which was many men’s worst dread.
“10-2-4”: There is a sardonic window-
dresser in Sydney. One of the great shops
is ornamented with a collection of stuffed
birds—every sort of wild flying thing that
Australasia produces, from gorgeous birds-of-
paradise down to tiny atoms like preposter-
ously-tailed fireflies. It is a sermon in
feathers on the vulgarity of the rich.
“Look!” says the commercial Savonarola,
holding up the mirror of fashion to the
woman of wealth. “All these lovely things
have died, at one time, or another, to bedeck
you. You have worn the body '■of a parrot
like that as a toque. The soft brown wings
of the tern have figured on the sides of
your summer hat. From these other wonder-
ful creatures, blazing in the splendor of their
Spring finery, come the ospreys which you
wear at night. What does it matter that they
have to be torn out of, still-living birds,
and during the mating season? It makes
them all the harder to get, and hence more
expensive, and hence more fashionable. Ob-
serve that amongst them I have placed a
pair of evening slippers. The price is eight
guineas. How appropriate! Come round
the corner with me to where the three laugh-
ing jackasses sit together.” It is all ex-
tremely rude and offensive. But the cus-
tomers are not annoyed. The window-dresser
uses a language which they do not under-
stand. -
* * * * *
In the Sydney Divorce Court Justice Gor-
don peered benevolently at a re-
solute but tearful dame who
admitted that she regretted her
vanished spouse. It was a brief
romance: she met the husband
when he was in camp at Bathurst,
in 1916, and married him after an
acquaintance of three months.
That was just two days before he
left for the Front, and he never
returned to the connubial couch.
And he was a “fine, ge'ntlemanly,
well-conducted man,” she told the
Court with an odd mixture of
resentment and pride. In an
atmosphere that reeks with stories
of flying crockery, misapplied
boots and other sordid accompani-
ments of inverted sympathy the
lady’s tribute to the absent erring one was
like a flower in a desert waste.
* * * *
“Peter Pan”: It is an intermittent pain
to criticise the Felton Bequest Trustees, who
seem to have wrongly envisaged my old friend
Alfred Felton’s object in leaving so much
money to the Melbourne National Gallery.
A recent purchase is of the Book of Hours
for 4500 guineas from the Earl of Wharn-
cliffe’s collection. Surely a mistake! The
Book is Tin. by 4|in. and contains 116 vel-
lum leaves. It is illuminated with 13 large
and 30 small miniatures, of course beauti-
fully executed. To the cognoscenti in art
it is a joy. To the ordinary visitor it will
be simply an amazing thing to look_ nt
through a glass-case because it cost £4725,
and it is doubtful if it will improve the
art standards of one of them. For that
money the trustees could have begun an
Australian collection in a room by itself- —
a collection which in the course of time,
with the proper use of the Felton legacy,
would become a perpetual joy to art-lovers
and visitors from all over this big country.
Only recently a painting by the Australian
artist Max Meldrum disappeared from the
wall to make room for a sample of the Lon-
don jetsam sent here by the London buyer
for the Bequest. The Melbourne Gallery
CAMOUFLAGE.
“I bet you got a big surprise when I sent you that necklace
“Oh, no, dear heart, only a little suspicious."
Trustees ought to take warning from the
New York Gallery, where the collection of
the works of native artists . has been
neglected in favor of “old masters,” fraudu-,
lent and genuine. The result has been that
in American public galleries one cannot find
a representative gathering of pictures by
American artists. Having known Alfred
Felton, it .appears to me a pity some spirit-
medium does not let him know how his
money is being inis-spent and His splendid
idea of giving Australian art a lift frus-
trated.
“Thirty-one”: The hard fight the Pro-
hibition crowd are making reminds me of a
Melbourne suburban State School teacher
who twisted “Loehinvar” to fit his scruples.
•Ilis deadly work was done on the lines —
Now I am come with this lost love of mine
To tread but one measure, drink one cup of wine.
When he. had fixed them safely, the poor
kids were taught
Now I am come with this lovely maid
To tread but one measure, drink one lemonade.
May The Lord never forgive him!
* ■* * ■ *
A recent investigation of cases of dis-
tress brought to light a woman who must
be Sydney’s record mother. At 39 she was
making preparations for the arrival of her
20th infant.
. LEARNING TO BE A LITERARY
CRITIC.
“Oh, it’s such a darling hook. It has a per-
fect ending."
“Tell us about it Jrom the beginning."
“ Silly—I haven’t come to that yet."
“Sixenate”: The Law has just been look-
at the will of a N. S. Wales suicide, who
removed himself because he had become
aware, or thought he had, of an intrigue
between his wife and his closest friend. lie
directed that the epitaph to be placed ou
his tombstone should be: “Greater love hath
no man that than this, that he lay down his
wife for his friend.” But his wish was cal-
lously disregarded.
“Bloggs” : “Dolphin” talks (B. 19/8/’2O)
of the pre-war occupations of notable Dig-
gers. More interesting to me are their post-
war jobs. When Birdwood’s headquarters
were at La Fletre we all envied a resplend-
ent creature who did a lot of brisk walking
from hut to hut in a staff-captain’s uniform.
The other day I noticed a dusty-looking in-
dividual doing something or other to a tram.
It was the captain. President McDonald, oi
the N.S.W. Returned Soldiers’ League, is the
ideal man for the job—staid, level-headed ; all
that is meant by the word wise. He never
rose above private’s rank in the A.I.F. In
civil life he is a barrister. The adjutant ol
my brigade was the immemorial type of suc-
cessful soldier. He either lacked the critical
faculty or had contrived to strangle it. When
the Colonel started bragging the Adjutant’s
expression of utter devotion, fealty and trust
outclassed anything that I have seen done
in the same line by a cocker spaniel. That
was how he became adjutant. We never
attempted to march from one part of the sec-
tor to the other without getting lost, though
95 per cent, of the buslimen in the unit
could have led the way blindfolded. It was
absolutely uncanny. About a month after
my return I met the faithful fellow and
understood all. He was serving at an iron-
mongery counter, a job which he had held
for 15 years on end prior to the outbreak of
war. But the real shock came when I
struck Bolsovex-. Word of command, sol-
dierly presence, administrative ability, charac-
ter, the capacity to inspire his men with love
and respect—he had them all, according to
the adjutant, who was the C.O.’s phonograph.
And there stood Bolsover, howling the odds on
“the outer,” having, as he confided to me,
lost his paddock license the previous week
through being convicted for running a city
betting-shop.
* * * *
“Mool Boel”: Two or three ex-Diggers
were swapping experiences between drinks.
The subject was cold snaps, and all hands
were lying hard. Then Bluey closed us all
up. “It was erbout the end of January,
1916, when we was in front of Transaloy.
’Streuth, she was cold ! Erbout ten nips of
rum below zero!”
* * * *
Irvine, C.J., has granted the first Victorian
petition for divorce on the ground of the re-
spondent’s insanity. The King’s assent to
the new Act was gazetted a .few weeks ago,
and the first to avail himself of the relief is
' a tailor’s cutter. He married 20 years ago.
Three years later his wife began to suffer
from delusions, and she has been in Yarra
'Bend most of the time since. He told the
Court that he hoped against hope for years;
then accepted the verdict that she was in-
curable. In three mouths, if nothing inter-
venes, he will get his decree absolute.
* * # *
“Y.D.1.” : There was some plain talk about
Gallipoli on the Peninsula itself. Three
weeks after Lone Pine and Suvla Bay our
lot was relieved from Quinn’s Post—a Very
hot corner. The working party was enjoying
smoko. Comfortably sprawled out, head
pillowed on a sandbag, lay a huge raw-
boned ex-bullocky, when Birdie chanced
along, opening with a smile and a. brisk
“Beautiful day. Like the change from
Quinn’s? What do you chaps think of
things now?” The bush warrior opened one
eye and drawled, “Well, Mr. Birdwood, I
think all you big heads are making a
hell of a mess of the whole, thing !”
Birdie led the laughter that followed. What
else could he do?
“Viovi” : This ought to settle the “Mirza”-
“Exul” controversy as to whether knowledge
of the examiner’s pet theories, etc., is an
asset. I recently satt for Pathology at Mel-
bourne Uni., and, being a bit of an oppor-
tunist, I looked up the old examination
papers and selected six questions that seemed
to crop up fairly often. We got four of
them, much to my delight. (I nearly got put
outside for a half-hearted attempt at a
cheer.) One question has been set eight
times in the past 10 years. Three others
have appeared five times. Evidently ‘ Mirza’
was correct in maintaining that such
knowledge is an asset, for I passed without
even an oral examination.
* * * ' *
“Gunner”: Though its wonders were so
much talked about, camouflage was a good
deal of a mocker right to the end of the war.
On the Sobnne in 1918 the artillery paid
tremendous attention to it. Our C.O. criti-
cally examined each of his batteries —they
were scattered about between liibemont and
Ville-sur-Ancre at the time —and pronounced
them safe. One in particular was a master-
piece of deception, and B.C.’s were ordered
to make a pilgrimage to it for instructional
purposes. A few days afterwards a Ger-
man airman was shot down, and amongst his
effects were (1) a map showing the.position,
correct to the fraction of a foot, of every
battery in the brigade, that of our Napoleon
of craft no less accurately placed than the
others; and (2) a list of batteries marked
to be wiped out by shellfire, ours among
them. The brigade moved, leaving the
camouflage behind for luck.
, * « *•
“Spare Corp”: The graves of some-
thing like 400 A.I.F. soldiers remain un-
located. They are unlikely to be found
now, although another effort is to be made:
the circumstances of a close-fought war like
that on the Western front made the complete
obliteration of many graves inevitable. In this
respect the Germans suffered more severely
than we. When Fritz in 1918 over-ran what
had been our back areas, some damage was
done to the A.I.F. graves near Pozieres; but,
as he passed well over that territory, the
destructive shell-fire did not plough the
cemetery. With Fritz it was different: the
British line pushed forward gradually, the
SHE’D HEARD OF A SHORTAGE.
“ That’s Lieutenants Parer and Mclntosh;
they ; have been for weeks in that flying
machine!"
“Why, mum — can’t they get a house?”
front-line areas became established in places
where the Germans had created cemeteries,
and the German shells dug up their own
dead. * Toward Holybeke there was a place
known to us as Pheasant Wood where, when
it was back of his lines, the Hun had made
a large burying-ground. A large moon-shaped
mound was thereabouts; and sheltering be-
hind this one day, when the German guns
were pouring shells over in search of our,
batteries, we were treated to showers of
bones. At the end only a few splintered
crosses, and a tangle of shell-holes remained.
Thousands of Germans must also have been
buried in what is now the tumbled earth at
Hill 60 and along the Messines ridge.
SONG OF A DISCONTENTED EGOIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I don’t like myself. Do you?
Every morning I arise
Nothing’s changed and nothing’s new.
Same old wrinkles round my eyes
Seem to say,-“Hello! Still here?”
Morning’s fair. The sky is clear.
Still I hate myself. Don’t you?
Mouthing the worn platitude
“What a lovely day! How blue!”
Breakfast —and an interlude.
“Good-bye, darling. Got your pipe?”
Then the .butcher brings the tripe.
Oh, to be some different thing,
Someone else besides myself !
There’s the door-bell! Ting-a-ling,
Like a little Spring-time elf.
Carrier ? My new hat ? Whew !
Oh, I love myself. Don’t you?
N.S.W.
ADELAIDE STREET.
SPRING PASSES BY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
See where she walks in flowing skirts!
A big hat hides her pretty face.
And I must stay indoors! It hurts
To think with her I cannot pace.
Straight on ! With swift, athletic grace
She passes, and I softly sigh,
“Her young form draped in creamy lace,
This afternoon Spring passed me by!”
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR


THE
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees.
New South Wales: Victoria : Queensland
The only Trustee Company having
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE —15 O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
KCMG, M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Hon. H. Y. Braddon,
M LC. F. B. S. Falkiner, James Kidd, H.
Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan Sinclair.
V. G. WATSON,
Assistant Manager.
JOHN MAIR,
Manager.
a
i.
a
Deafness Increases If neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
I amsnn Store fn 102 Daktng House,
LamSsOn Service V u *» Sydney.
Olderfleet, Collins Street. Melbourne.
N.Z. —John Proctor. 200 High St.. Christchurch
W.A.-H. Little S- Co., 851 Hay St.. Perth
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfHNQ ROOF GARDEN.
Management F. T. CHEISSEMAN.
MWORfu
“ EXTRA HIGH GRADE"
SMOKING TOBACCO
Sliced Plug or Ready-Rubbed
is the Original Tobacco of
this style.
Does not bite the tongue.
In tins from all Tobacconists.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
August 29 was the 85th anniversary of
the arrival in the Yarra of Johnny Fawkner’s
55-ton schooner Enterprise. She tied up to
a sapling in front of where the Customs
House now is.
Before she
worked for
Fawkner she
traded between
Launceston and
Sydney under
the command
of Captain
Hunter.
DR. VICTOR
RATTEN,
superintendent
Hobart General
Hospital, con-
cerning the
validity of
whose diploma
the B.M.A. and
the Speck’s
Parliament have
been turned
grey.
September birthdays : —-
G. D. Delprat, 64, on Ist; poet J. Le Gay Brere-
ton (Syd.), 49, on 2nd; Prof. Anderson (Syd.), 62,
on 3rd; Brig.-Gen. Brand (Vic. Commandant), 47,
on 4th; artist Chas. Nuttall (Melb.), 48, on 6th;
C. J. Dennis (“Sentimental Bloke”), 44, on 7th;
A. B. Piddington, K.C., 58, on 9th; H. W. Potts
(Hawkesbury Coll.), 65, on 12th; Justice Northmore
(W.A.), 55, on 14th; Dr. R. Logan Jack, geologist,
75, on 16th; Prof. Walter Murdoch (W.A.), 46, and
G. A. Gibbs (Melb. Board of Works), 58, on 17th;
Colonel Beeston, M.L.C. (N.S.W.), 61, on 19th; H.
E. Kater, M.L.C. (N.S.W.), 79, and Dr. Charlie
Ryan (Collins-street), 67, on 20th; Prof. Mica Smith
(Ballarat), 76, and Canon Hey Sharp (late warden
of St. Paul’s, Syd.), 75, on 21st; poet James Hebble-
thwaite, 63, on 22nd; W. B. Rounsevel) (S.A.), 78,
on 23rd; Gen. Brudenell White, 44, and Will Dyson,
40, on 23rd; Sam Hordern, 44, on 24th; Billy
Hughes, 56, on 25th; Josiah Symon, K.C. (S.A.),
74, and Chief Justice Murray (S.A.), 57, oh 27th;
Col. Bisdee, V.C, (Speck), 51, on 28th; Dr. J. S.
C. Elkington (Brisbane), 49, Donald Mackinnon
(Vic.), 61, on 29th, and artist Rupert Bunny (Don-
ald’s brother-ih-law), 56, on 29th.
The Earl of Stradbroke, Victoria’s new
Governor, is not the first of his family
to serve in Australia. The great turf
authority, Admiral Henry John Rous, was
second son of the first Earl of Stradbroke.
In 1825 he came to Sydney in The Rainbow
as commander, and was in Australian waters
for four years. During that time he im-
ported Emigrant, the sire of some of the
best Australian horses. The Admiral dis-
covered the Richmond and Clarence rivers.
GABB, who
displaced Paddy
Glynn in the House
of Reps., and now
won’t take the
extra four hundred.
Bathurst (N.S.W.) will never look quite
the same again, for last week John Meagher
died. To the end he put in a certain amount
of time in the city which is considered by its
inhabitants to be like Paris, only more go-
ahead ; and to the day of his death he was
as much a feature of it as/Machattie Park.
John Meagher, like Parkes and that Cardinal
(Moran) whom he loved so well, radiated the
mysterious quality of personality. He could
be severe—though he rardv was —and he
could be dignified and aloof; but the weapon
he relied on chiefly was sly chaff. A very
young man of his acquaintance had pro-
claimed himself an atheist. The relentless
old gentleman cornered him in a crowded
room and said gloomily ; “I hear, Mr. Blank,
that ye’ve been reading so much that you
don’t believe any more in God. What a great
young fellow for reading you must be, to be
sure!” He was pre-occupied with two
things: his religion and Ireland ; the latter
he had left as a boy of 16. Yet few could
boast that they ever beat him in a business
deal, and at his death he was one of the
richest men in the State. It may be said of
him that he never shirked a fight and never
came out of one with unclean hands ; and
what better epitaph could a self-made man
of 85 desire?
Gone out at 84, Samuel Harborne Belcher,
who 50 years ago took charge of his own
academy, the Goulburn Grammar School
for Boys. After graduating at Trinity Col-
lege, Dublin, he came this way from Clifton
College, Bristol. But his proudest boast
was not of the school lessons he had taught,
but that ho had made highest score (78)
in the cricket match in the Domain when
he played for N. S. Wales against All Eng-
land ; and his" most treasured possession Was
a letter from W. G. Grace, in which the
doctor said: “It was you who taught us all
(the Grace family) cricket.”
“A.F.C.” : Raymond Parer, gallant airman
and most resourceful aero-mechanic ex-
tant, was a square peg in a round hole at
Point Cook, the Australian flying school.
They wouldn’t pass him as a gravel-crusher
in the early days of the war; but dad had
friends, and Raymond found his way to Point
Cook. His squad drill was appalling, so he
got “workshops” nearly every day. This was
just to his liking. When applications for
flying cadets were asked for, he w r as there
and was promptly rejected. Finally .some-
one helped, and he justified himself by doing
his school without breaking a wire. More
rejectments when second-lieutenant jobs were
about. Everyone scored but Raymond. But
by now he had made a friend who got him a
square deal and his pip. His brushing up in
mess ways must have cost him many a miser-
able hour, for while all the young bloods were
at Lady Toorak’s ball or Admiral Quarter-
deck’s party, young Parer wanted only to stay-
in the home-made mess-hut and play Spanish
dances to himself on the piano. Nobody
could teach him military etiquette, and he
was the despair of gallant old Sergeant-
major Kimberley. Fifty, perhaps a hundred,
times young Parer, now a one-star artist,
had been told not to salute the s.m. when
he wanted to speak to him. and not to do
it with the left hand, .either. I witnessed
the last time Parer tried it. Grizzled old
Kimberley had had a bad day and Parer
wanted speech with him. Going up to Kim-
berley he saluted, and once more did it
with his left hand. Old Kim turned purple
and lost his temper. “Mr. Parer, .sir. If
you do that again I’ll” —the threat was so
terrible that I never saw Parer make the
same mistake again.
Having become Clerk of the Federal Par-
liament and Clerk of the Senate, and thus
attained the full height of his ambition,
Charles Duffy has retired. He had an in-
nings of 50 years as a Government officer,
beginning as private sec. to his knightly
father, then Premier of Victoria. He was
Clerk-assistant of the Vic. Assembly when
the Commonwealth came into being and
went over to the Reps, to a similar job,
guessing rightly that George Jenkins, who
didn’t like hard work, would soon take his
whiskers back (as he"did) to bis sinecure in
the State Parliament. Duffy was never a
showy man. He shrank from publicity, and
people had to reflect a bit to call to mind
the narpe of ,the Clerk of the House. He
married a daughter of Allan McLean, a
former Vic. Premier and Federal Minister
for Customs.
The Earl of Stradbroke, the new Governor
of Victoria, should be able to supply the
racing knowledge which the coming G.-G.
lacks. The Rous family, to which he belongs,
is famous in the history of the turf. “The
Admiral,” as its best-known member was
called, was liandicapper for the Jockey Club
in the early days of English racing, and
countless legends surround his despotic
methods with trainers, jockeys and even
owners.
It’s hard to see why any man should want
to be a suburban mayor more than once,
but T. Wilson is having' a second run as
Mayor of Brighton (Vic.) after an interval
of 50 years. His last experience was in
IS7O.
Died at Hornsby (N.S.W.) recently, at
71, James Channon, proprietor of Waugh's
baking-powder and other domestic condi-
ments. His considerable fortune began this
way. The holder of the recipe for the baking-
powder owed him —then a young man —some
money which it was inconvenient to pay, and
in lieu of cash the formula for making the
powder was handed over. Advertising made
*it a huge success, and Channon added other
lines as time went on. For diversioh he
went in for mining, and dropped many a tin
of baking-powder at Wyalong and elsewhere.
J. J. Brokenshire, the ex-Mayor of Bal-
larat City who was sentenced a few months
ago to four years for fraudulent conversion
of trust property, has been released on Law-
son’s recommendation. Old age and ill health
are the official reasons.
Hannibal Williams, of Julia. S. Aus., has
given up the habit of living. When the An-
laby estate was cut up for closer settlement
Hannibal drove his pegs in one of the blocks.
He was 87 then and 101 when he put in his
last crop. At least'he said so, and nobody
contradicted him.
The only surviving member of the Burke
and Wills expedition is R. S. Wilson, of
Geelong (Vic.). As a lad of 15, Wilson
signed on for work with the camels. His
employer had a disagreement with Burke at
Swan Hill, and did not proceed. Wilson re-
joined the expedition in S. Aus., and was a
member of the rescue party that brought
back the bones of the leaders.
‘ Captain L. R. Sondercombe, who has
landed the job of chief survey officer in
the Navigation Department, of which
“Aurora” Davis is now superintendent, has
had 23 years at sea. His first eight were
in deep-sea sailers; then he went into steam,
and after some years on foreign runs was
officer and"'master on the Australian coast.
When the Grantala was taken for a hospi-
tal ship he signed on as mate. The cap’n puts
in his spare time inventing things. A sig-
nalling apparatus of his has been widely
adopted both afloat and for lighthouses:
and lately lie has been working on an im-
proved lift for getting the boats out at times
when seconds are liable to count.
Redmond Barry, formerly Judge of the
Vic. Supreme Court, cordially disliked the
lower branch of the legal profession. A
solicitor died in penury, and subscriptions
were being asked for to obtain funds to meet
his funeral expenses. Barry was asked to
contribute a shilling. He said: “Only a
shilling to bury an attorney! Here’s a
guinea—bury, twenty-one of them.”
The Sydney press marvelled at the dis-
covery that friendly relations existed between
Rev. R. McKeown—for nearly 40 years C. of
E. rector at Waverley—and a local R.C.
college. The rector did the college many
good turns, and when he decided to retire
it insisted on making him a presentation.
Such relations are much
commoner than the news-
papers’ shrieks of religious
hate would lead the pub-
lic to imagine. Bishop
Camidge, Bishop Long’s
predecessor at Bathurst,
usually distributed the
prizes at St. Stanislaus,
the big Catholic school of
what Sydney calls “the
West,” and priests and
parsons are the best of
friends in many other
country centres. One of
Padre McKeown’s sons,
by the way, is an operatic
star, and another might
have been had he not
preferred business.
WM. HUTCHINSON.
M.L.A., Victoria’s
Minister for Education
and Forests.
A Melbourne dust-storm nearly cut short
the detective career of A. S. Burvett, who
for 33 years loomed large in the work of the
Victorian C.1.D., and who retired this month
from the job of being Sherlock Holmes at
the Federal Treasury. Young Burvett had
been only seven months in the force and
was assigned to “shadow” a man. He fol-
lowed him through the city ; then the north
wind filled his eye with grit, a tram came
between him and his quarry, and the man
was lost in the crowd. Burvett reported to
Inspector Kennedy, and. after listening to
that eloquent man’s address, promptly re-
signed. Three months later he was pre-
vailed upon to rejoin, but in the interval
the force had been brought up to full
strength and he lost the seniority of years.
Incidentally, his success as a crime-detector
is of interest, as he was one of the few men
who came fresh to the G.I.D. without first
having to undergo a brain-dulling spell on a
suburban beat. As a young man in Paris
he had done work for Scotland Yard, and
he was given a triad when he arrived in
Australia. The astute old Police Depart-
ment never repeated the successful experi-
ment : what' chance would the regular force
have if mere brains counted?
The restless De Gar is has bought a 50,000-
acre sheep-walk, 40 miles from Albany
(W.A.). He intends cutting it up into fruit-
farms—-it borders a thriving apple district—
and talks of flying over the Nullarbor Plain
to have a look at his purchase.
Passed out at Whitemark, Flinders Island,
Dr. M. S. McSweeny, who was more than
the Specklet’s medical man—he was its
pianist, billiardist, storyteller and general
good fellow, too. When his old nag was
lame, it was quite in order for him to walk
and carry his tools 15 miles to attend a
patient. Pneumonia claimed him at 47.
Julian Salomons, addressing N. S. Wales
Full Court (Darley, C.J., presiding), in-
cidentally remarked that two young ladies
who were sisters, one of whom was married
and the other single, and who were both in-
terested in the litigation in question, were
strangely alike. He detailed points of re-
semblance and declared that if the ladies
stood side by side in court it would not be
possible to say which was which. Darley,
intensely interested, said: “But how does
the husband of the married one distinguish
her from her sister?” “He does not attempt
to!” said counsel.
Frederick Taylor, over whom the grave
closed last week, earned fame as a teacher
of drawing in Vic. State schools between
3871 and 1893. Long before it was fashion-
able to talk of “hand-and-eye training” he
practised it successfully, and had the knack
of holding the attention of the youngsters.
The most the State ever spared him was £3OO
a year, but he got even with it —he drew a
pension of a couple of pounds a week for 27
years. In the middle of last century or
thereabouts his dad was President of the
Royal Water Color Society (Eng.).
They don't all wait for the State to do
it. -James Riley, of Dargo River (Vic.),
reared a family of 10 children in a place
which was only reachable by a bridle-track,
along which he “packed” his good.s and pro-
duce. until four years ago: then the Vic.
Public Works Department supplied £lOO
for the making of a road, and Riley did the
job himself. He also built a schoolhouse for
the children : and. as there were other child-
ren to use it. when the Education Depart-
ment supplied a teacher he swung a sus-
pension bridge across the Dargo for the use
of the infants.
(Continued on page 18.)
WIDOW-WOMEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The grey widow-women are a mournful folk apart,
With the dark worm of sorrow gnawing at* the heart,
Their shoulders bowed down with the burden of
the years—
A double load of trouble; a double load of fears;
And men’s work and women's work to wear their
fingers out,
And bread-winning and house-toil for them to be
about.
To lean-pursed widow-women the grocer’s heart is
hard,
But hungry, healthy children are playing in the
yard ;
Young appetites are eager for jam upon the bread,
And mum must keep on going, or the kids won’t
be fed.
So it’s boarders and sewing and scrubbing through
the day,
For the good folks say it’s better that she should
pay her way !
They would not pauperise her for anything on earth,
They like to give her every chance to show what
she is worth ;
They like to see her striving to help herself along,
But if her strength should fail her, although her
spirit’s strong,
They cry, “God help the poor soul!”—and lift their
hands on high,
Which means “You must not trouble us!” and then
they hurry by.
A good world for the young wife with babies at her
knee,
Her husband coming home o’ nights to eat the
tasty tea,
And after that the sound sleep, his arm beneath her
head.
The restless widow-woman is lonely in her bed,
And only in the darkness are ghosts which weep
and fret;
And youngsters do not notice the widow’s pillow’s
wet.
A fine world for the old wife with children tall and
fair, •
And the grey-headed goodman a-nodding in the
chair ;
Set close beside the embers when life’s flame is burn-
ing low,
They live on scented stories of the brave long ago.
But the wan widow-woman finds dead hopes in the
fire,
And the white dust and ashes and the dear, lost
desire.
They burnt widow-women by the Ganges’ yellow
stream.
As nicely-tutored people of such things we wouldn’t
dream.
We like to See them honest, and-working with a will.
For they’d soon get dull and lazy if their hands
were still.
Ah! the poor widow-women who carry twice their
share,
Weeping dumbly in the darkness in the arms of
Despair!
victoria.
DALE COLLIN'S.


“CAPSTAN
TOBACCO AND
CIGARETTES
X
an
r>J
arifxj
6438
dd
u>,\
In
, I
I illi
a
The purity and excellence of the
brand “Capstan” are alike valued
by the air man and the man on
terra-firma.
“CAPSTAN ” stands right out
above all other brands.
Cigarettes or Tobacco in 3 Strengths,
MILD, MEDIUM AND FULL.
Tobacco may also be obtained in Plug form.
W. D. & R O. WILLS
Manufacturers of Tobacco and Cigarettes
Renowned as Tobacco People for more than 200 Years.
CIVIC
THE
STANDARD
PIPE


Australian-made
Implements and Engines
tm
r -BHi l|
SUNSHINE Engines
_ and Chaffcatters
are used on
Thousands
of Farms.
Harvesters, Headers, Grain and Fertilizer Drills, Engines, Chaffcutters, Oatcrushers,
Saw-benches, Pumping Jacks, Spring Tine Cultivators, Lucerne Cultivators,
Orchard Cultivators, Disc Cultivators, Mould-board Ploughs, Disc Ploughs, Stump
Jump Ploughs, Harrows, Swingletrees, Chain and Pulley Yokes, Plough Shares,
Metal Gates, etc.
H. V. McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
f
Write for Illustrated Catalogue Sent Free and Post Free.
Of the 20 Premiers N. S. Wales has had
only six have been Australians—Farnell,
born at Kissing Point; Dibbs, born on the
Rocks; Lyne, in Tasmania; Carruthers, in
Iviama ; Wade, in Singleton ; and Storey, in
Balmain.
“Covale”: Wales understands the lan-
guage of blokes as well as the gabble of
bores. When visiting the Piljedale (Q.)
Soldiers’ Settlement, he remarked to one of
the Diggers, “It must be awfully hard work
getting this land cleared.” The Digger re-
plied, “To tell you the truth, it’s a fair
——!” “I suppose it is,” murmured his
Cheeriness very seriously.
“Karim Khan”: In June, 1918, I made the
acquaintance of Mirza Ivuchik Khan, leader
of the present revolution in North-West Per-
sia; for he alone, of all those Persian agents
who divided their sympathies between the
Kaiser and the Bolsheviks, and were paid by
both, backed up his protests against our
entry into those parts with armed resistance.
He is a man of extreme energy, and reason-
ably human for one who has learned what
little he knows of European warfare from the
Turks and Germans. Supporting him are
the Jangalis, a Kurdish tribe 5000 strong,
whom we decisively defeated first at Manjil
Bridge, on the road to Resht, and afterwards
at the the town itself. As a result of these
engagements Mirza Kuchik Khan decided
that it was better to be on our side than
against us; and August .saw him filling, with
more profit than glory, the position of sup-
ply officer to the British Forces operating-
on the Caspian. Nobody, however, expected
him or any other of the interesting savages
thereabouts to remain loyal an hour after
they had ceased to be paid for it.
“W’gabba”: Some of the Light Horse
had the pleasure of seeing Paul Wagner,
the Huns’ master-spy, in Palestine. He
rode over in broad daylight into our lines
as a Deputy-A.P.M., escorted by two fol-
lowers. They were all equipped with gear
previously captured from us. He spent half
an hour in our lines, inquiring from unsus-
pecting Diggers, “I say, old chap, where
are the 3rd Brigade Headquarters?” and so
on. When he had filled up with informa-
tion our secret-service wires got word
through that he was within our lines ; but
by the time the scent was picked up he
had vamoosed. He Avas afterwards taken
during the destruction of a bridge over the
Jordan, but saved his skin somehow.
One sure way of extinguishing an English
peerage is to name an Australian capital
after it. It is useless to look in the peerage
list now for a Sydney or a Melbourne.
There is a Hobart there, but ho is a mere
baronet, created in 1914, and has no-
thing to do with
the old-time Lord
I lobart who stood
godfather to the
capital of the
Speck. Sir Thomas
Brisbane was only
a baronet, but the
title became
extinct with him,
all, his family hav-
i n g died before
him. There is still
an Earl of Pm-t 1 :
but, then, Perth
was named after
the town and not
after the title, so
it doesn’t enter into
the argument.
DEAN RIVERS,
now of Hobart,
once of Brisbane.
Irish brief-hunters in Australia
The pioneer of the Irish Bar in Sydney was John
Kinchela, called in 1798, who arrived in 1831 as
Attorney-General, and was raised to the Bench in
1836. Following him came John Hubert Plunkett,
called 1826, arrived in 1832 as Solicitor-General, and
appointed Attorney-General on the elevation of
Kinchela. Next in seniority was Isidore J. Blake
later a District Court Judge in Queensland. He
was called in 1836, a year ahead of W. A. Purefoy.
Thomas Callaghan, called in 1838; Peter Faucet,
called in 1845 ; and Alfred McFarland, called in 1847,
all became Judges. J. O’N. Brenan, called in 1848,
lived at Garryowen and practised in Sydney. F. M.
Darley, called in 1853, came to Sydney in 1862.
At first he thought of practising in Melbourne, where
his father-in-law, Sylvester Browne, had settled;
but on Alfred Stephen’s advice he moved on to Syd-
ney. Alfred Stephen had met him seeking briefs
on the Munster circuit in 1861. Richard Bourke, who
was private sec. to his father, Governor Bourke, was
called to the Bar in 1841 ; he afterwards became a
Poor Law Commissioner in Ireland. The Victorian
contingent numbered some very brilliant men.
Amongst the earliest to arrive was E. J. Brewster,
appointed (in Sydney) first Judge at Port Phillip.
He speculated largely in Melbourne town lots, be-
came very wealthy, and died at Capetown on his way
to Australia to visit his properties. Amongst the
first barristers in Melbourne were James Croke, Red-
mond Barry (1838), W. F. Stawell (1839). Both
the latter reached the Supreme Court Bench. The
discovery of gold brought from Ireland Robert Moles-
worth, called in 1825, who became Chief Judge in
Equity; J. S. Armstrong, a Crown Prosecutor; S.
H. Bindon, a Minister of the Crown and Judge;
R. D. Ireland, eminent in politics; Townsend Mae-
Dermott, Hackett (County Court Judge), Edward
McDonnell, C. Gavan Duffy, AVilson Gray (he became
a Judge in Maori land), M. F. Macoboy, F, L. Smyth,
Robert AValsli and J. H. Dunne (all Judges), Adamson
(Crown Prosecutor), \V. E. Hearn (Uni. professor),
J. F. Nolan (Judge), Bryan O’Loghlen (Premier),
and many more. And then there was a drove of
attorneys, the most noted of them Madden, father of
the Chief Justice, who hailed from Cork. The hot
Irishman’s judgment may be perfectly rotten; but
it is amazing the number of him we’ve appointed as
Judges, nevertheless.
Theosophy is just now busy asking for
a non-theosophic explanation of Samuel
Rzeliehski, an eight-year-old Pole who seems
to have been selected by the soul of a re-
cently deceased chess-player for a new
existence. Samuel hasn’t yet arrived at
blindfold chess with a dozen or two oppo-
nents, but he takes on 20 men, at 20 boards,
with his eyes open, and beats them. It’s a
deplorable accomplishment to be born with,
but it has to be accounted for.
The Senate laughed the other day when
Paddy Lynch, of Westralia, referred sardoni-
cally to “the benevolent Mother State —or, as
Oi loike to call her, the Mother-in-law State
—and her pretence of fathering iverything.”
But the House i.s always well filled when
Patrick is up, for he hits hard, is passion-
ately sincere, and, although a trifle addicted
to the making of bulls, can rise to the dignity
of real eloquence. No man did more to make
the Westralian vote for conscription the im-
pressive thing it was. He has been a Sena-
tor since 1906. and was Minister of Works
in the Daglish Cabinet before that. Until
Gilruth came along the Fisher Government
thought of sending Lynch north to administer
the Territory. In the retrospect, it is rather
a pity he wasn’t sent.
“D.E.”: Is “Centurion” right in saying
that Marmaduke Wood, friend of Dunlo—
now the gaoled Earl of Clancarty—“spent
his later years jackerooing in south-west
Queensland”? When I saw Mfirmy at Perth
in 1903 he seemed long past jackerooing or
any pursuit more strenuous than waiting
for his remittance to arrive. He was a
pathetically faded johnnie, habited in the
remnants of fashionable clothing, and his
monthly affluence soon evaporated, for when
he had it he couldn’t refuse a loan. He
confided to a friend of mine that Dunlo’s
marriage to Belle Bilton was the outcome
of a frolic. In a sportive moment the swift
young set to which Dunlo and Wood be-
longed tossed for the distinction of proposing
to the lady, and Dunlo won. The rest is
stage history.
Old Feisal (“Face Oil” to the Diggers in
P alestine) had all the Oriental’s passion for
scent. 1 robably the war cut off his supplies,
lor when his alle-
giance was waver-
i n g between th e
allies and our ene-
mies, it was alleged
to be a small ease
o f eau-de-Cologne
sent by Allenby on
his second mission
to “Face Oil” that
turned the trick in
our favor.
“ FATHER ”
OUTTRIM, of
the Vic. Assembly
he has been
46 years a mem-
ber, and has held
no less than eight
portfolios in his
time. .
In his last public address the great Grif-
fith warned Australia against the allure-
ments of crude and uninstructed forms of
revolution, defying all rule and order, and
denying all obligations of duty. “I hope,”
he said, “that the majority of the people,
who have for centuries enjoyed the advan-
tages of ordered government will follow sane
counsels.” In these words of ripe wisdom
he expressed his own essential qualities, for
a sense of duty and a reverence for ordered
government had dominated splendid life.
Things happen swiftly in war, but the
record of Corporal Phil Davey takes some
beating. After a. long spell in France he
was drafted to the training battalion at
Sutton Veny for six months’ “rest.” But
forming fours day after day wasn’t to his
liking, and at the end of a month he asked
to be returned to France. His request was
refused, and an appeal direct to his C.O.
met with no better luck. He stood it for
another month ; then, going to London on
week-end leave, he met his company-
commander, who was returning to France
next day, and pleaded to be taken as
far as Boulogne as batman. His O.C. reluct-
antly agreed, so with his stripes in his
pocket and a valise on his shoulder he
“made” France, and by “hopping lorries”
reached his battalion within 24 hours of
leaving London. The battalion was in the
line- in front of Merris, and on reporting
at H.Q. dugout he was put under open arrest
and ordered to rejoin his company. Two
hours later a barrage came down for a minor
stunt, and Davey, after “doing in” several
Huns and capturing a machine-gun post
single handed, was on his way to Blighty
severely wounded. A recommendation for
the \ .C. was favorably considered, and some
months later, on discharge from hospital, he
left for Australia with the little bronze cross
in his pocket.
EGOTISM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The lemons are yellow ;
A red-breasted fellow,
All feathers and fire.
Hops up on the wire
And looks at my roses
As if he supposes
He’s taken my measure—
A chap with a spade
Digging worms for his pleasure:
That’s why / was made.
There’s a cow that believes
That my best cabbage grieves
AVith tears on its green,—
That the fence stands between
To prevent them from meeting.
All my garden will grow
She sees set for her eating,
Fresh row upon row.
Lord, grant me the vision
To hold in derision
The narrowing views
Of all creatures who choose
Other modes of delight.
Thou knowest the stars
In the front of the night
And the men who drive cars
And the heroes who fight
And the folk who can parse
And the folk who can’t quite
And the people in bars
AVasting time getting tight
AVere only created to read what 1 write!
x.s.w.
C. O. M.


M\
m
I
4
>:
T
v-
; s
V ;
~
■
I
■
*
1
i
?*:•: ■
I
MM
iHim
MfMl(ill
HEPPLE WHITt
PATRICIAN
M
i\A.\.ih.lJjLJ
Enduring grace and beauty
EVERY example of Community Plate (Knives, Forks, Spoons) is
a dream come true —tke dream of one or other of the world s
celebrated decorative artists. When you examine a pattern of
Sheraton, Patrician, Adam or Hepplewhite style, you are observing a
material expression of the artistic mind of that particular decorative genius.
In addition to this external beauty which makes Community Plate (Knives,
Forks, Spoons) so attractive for the occasion of ceremony and for everyday use,
there is to be remembered its time-defying wear. This is due to the high quality
of materials; the skill and care of workmanship ; the heavy plating oyer all; the
reinforcement, by means of a visible disc of pure silver, where wear is severest.
The illustration shows examples o£ the beautiful patterns known as Adam, Sheraton, Patrician,
and Hepple white. This delightful quartette compete strongly with one another for your preference.
The designs are individual. They are never duplicated in lines of different quality.
COMMUNITY PLATE. Tablespoons or Forks, guaranteed 50 years, per set
of six
ONEIDA COMMUNITY RELIANCE PLATE. Tablespoons or Forks,
guaranteed 25 years, per set of six ...
ONEIDA COMMUNITY PAR PLATE. Tablespoons or Forks, guaranteed
10 vpars. oer set of six
24/-
Other items relatively priced. On exhibition at leading jewellers and stores.
Oneida Community Limited
THE BANKING HOUSE, 2S PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Established 1848, at Oneida, New York, U.S.A.


Men's “Orient” Golf Shirts.
Unusual Value.
“Made by David Jones” from
good-quality striped cambric,
an unequalled summer shirt-
ing, in all sizes from 1 4 to 17
inches neck. Black, blue and
helio are the stripes on white
ground
WE PAY CARRIAGE,
David cJonav’
Opp. G.P.O. SYDNEY Tel City 6336.
I
B
i
B
0
£
w)
S
*4
§
0
52?
%
/
Superiority
The greater durability, the comfort and econ-
omy of the Goodrich Silvertown Cord Tyre have
earned for it the title: The Tyre Superior.
And for sheer beauty the Silvertown is a credit
to the most luxurious and expensive motor car.
Economy, Strength, Comfort, Beauty: four
outstanding superior qualities that guarantee
satisfaction.
Goodrich tyres are dependable.
DUVAL 8 CO.
Sydney,
Melbourne
& Brisbane
Farmers’ Co-operative Union, Adelaide
E.T.3
Goodrich.
SikertomGnd Tyres
Little Travel Tales.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SHE had braids and braids of purplish-
red hair banded tightly about her
head, a pink little face and dusky
grey-green eyes. A bride, this little lady,
bound for Sumatra with her adoring hus-
band. They sat at my table aboard the
Namar. I enjoyed them. She wore rose-
red and shades of purple—with her red
hair! She was so very attractive, and he
so manly and finely in love. One after-
noon in the Java seas she left our little
group on the deck and went to her cabin
for a sleep, she said. An hour later her
husband went down. She was lying, still
sleeping, beneath a quilt of turquoise-blue
satin, with her beautiful red hair hanging
m a great braid over the side of the berth,
lie gave the hair a little playful pull. It
fell loosely from his hand and lay in a
rufous coil on the cabin-floor. He dragged
back the blue satin quilt, and what he had
thought his sleeping bride was a little
pile of cushions. They searched the ship
desperately, but no bride nor clue was ever
found.
Her face was paper-white, with a thick,
pendulous underlip. She was middle-aged
and strangely unattractive. With her were
two delightful men, obviously of the officer
caste. Each morning at 11 the lady appeared
clad in a dingy, crushed cloak, with her
head thrust into a battered travelling hat,
followed in close attendance by the two
men carrying sumptuous rugs and cushions.
They sat together, always on the boat-deck,
and spoke to no one. All their meals were
served outside. Some of us thought her a
mad, poor thing, being taken care of.
Others that she was a criminal taken by
detectives. Or a spy. At Batavia a mag-
nificent car whirled them away. Later I
heard the truth. She was a Hapsburg roy-
alty who had run away. The two nice men
were emissaries who had found her in
Maoriland and Were taking her home.
* * * *
Ambon of Maubiaug, in .the Blessed Isles,
coming in front the dugong-fishing in his
line pearl-inlaid canoe, passed a water-
snake swimming with its tail up. Ar-i-me,
paddling in behind him in the sunset, was
sorry for his brother. For, as all wise in
the wisdom of the islands know, a seasnake
swimming with its tail high up means that
a man’s wife is deceiving him. Landing on
the little beach beneath the palm track,
Ambon crept to his hut, and, thrusting his
dugong spear through the grass walls,
stabbed Jo-hi, his bride', to the heart as she
lay asleep. At his trial before the Mamoosfe
and Councillors, Mosu, whom Ambon had
thought to be his friend, was proved to have
left Ambon’s hut that night. But....he
maintained that he had dropped in to see
Ambon about some turtleshell.
* * * *
,My friend was not on deck when the oil-
launch left the Dutch boat for the beach, a
couple of hundred yards away. When we
landed I saw him on the ship, plainly dis-
appointed that he had not got ashore. I
begged a passenger who spoke Malay well
to ask the boatswain to return to the ship
for my friend. I caught the request—to
“return for the Dutchman.” “Thank you
very much,” I said. “But my friend is not
Dutch.” “Ah, but a man must be Dutch to
be important to a Malay,” he told me. “Even
for an Englishman I doubt whether the
Javanese boatswain would have bothered to
go out of his way.”
* * * *
Mau the Murderess lives in Port Moresby
Gaol. She is a fine woman, big and gener-
ous of build, and more than ordinarily cap-
able. Her eyes are a soft blue-grey. Every
evening when his work is done for the day
Kau, her old lover, comes and sits on the
hill above the gaol and throws bananas
and wai-wai over the fence to his beloved,
and sings to her all the village gossip and
news.
Years and years ago an old white hatter
named Anthony Struthers worked a salad
patch on the Laloki River, a few miles out
of Port. He used to bring his stuff in to
Moresby in a donkey-cart. He always wore
a red shirt and a sarong and big white
boots. He spoke to no one, and had no
friends.
He did not come to town for a month, and
the housewives missed his wares. So a
patrol-officer went out to see about it.
Struthers’s hut was closed. The natives from
a village a little higher up told Mr. Patrol
Officer that an alligator had come out of the
river and eaten the white man. They showed
him the spoors. There they were, in the
sand floor; which was why they had shut
the door to keep the maiganies out lest they
should obliterate the marks.
Ten years went by: then, for no other reason
than that Kau had caught a maigani and had
cooked it by the wayside, and was eating it
when a man from another nearby village
came along and asked him for some and Kau
refused it, Maru strode into Moresby and
turned King’s evidence. The people of Kau’s
village, he said, had built a new dobu (com-
mune house). They needed to anoint it with
human blood to bring luck and keep away
devils. Mau, the village belle, said a white
man’s blood would be best. What of the old
man not quite a taubada who lived alone in
the little hut by the Laloki? So she crept into
his hut one dark night when he has sleep-
ing and sat on his head whilst Kau, her lover,
choked him. Then they made an alligator’s
tracks to and from the river.
Later, Mau basely deserted Kau and mar-
ried another.
Half the vilage went to gaol; Mau be-
came warderess and tended the sick women.
Kau picked up carpentering, and became so
proficient that Government mandated him to
the Public Works to build houses. All day
he _ cheerfully carpenters, but at sunset he
swims in the foreshore water that has all
the colors of opal, wraps him in a clean
rami, prinks frangipani flowers in his hair
and goes to the hillside overlooking the gaol.
There he sits and sings, and feeds his be-
loved w T ith bananas. And has done it day in
and day out for. year after year.
Virtue has its own reward. So has vice.
S. S. SEVERN.


iW!'M!
ftTU OM'-7 XftftuH-Ulc) ft Ml
■■■
mmsam
WB&St§^SIS^M
■ ''' . / • 1 ft- ft
..
ftftftjgftftiiv ft ■'■■■■■ '
B
.
ftftft
» ■!*
m
>' '■ •
Aft
V":
HI
'
.
mm
;8;:\
■;V":
ftft
fyifi.
ftj
H
I ■:■
Bps msPtsM* 7
Sft
11
m
ill K v, fn .,
lUtt HHBO£
Goodyear Belts are built
in support of a principle
THE Goodyear Principle
that “Whatever is best
for the customer is best
for the manufacturer” finds
clear expression in all types of
Goodyear Belting. But the
excellence of the belts them-
selves represents only a part of
the governing principle. The
remaining factors are to be
found in the important services
rendered both before and after
installation.
Goodyear Belting is the best
that, after years of experience
and exhaustive test and experi-
ment, can be made. This con-
stitutes the first step in carrying
out the principle. The second
step is to assist the purchaser in
the selection of the product best
adapted to meet the particular
requirements. This intelligent
choice is no less important than
the quality of the product itself.
The stubborn wear of all types
of Goodyear Be 11 i n g—Blue
Streak, Glide or Klingtite—
under the most arduous and
searching conditions has been
thoroughly established in the
plants of many Australian in-
dustries. Their economy in
operation—mainly due to the
special friction surface, that
prevents slippage—is more than
ever important to-day. Power
becomes dearer and dearer to
produce. Goodyear Belting is
the great conserver of power.
You have the right at any time
to call for the advice of the
Goodyear Technical Man, who
will demonstrate how to adapt
your belts to the actual con-
ditions of work.
His specialised knowledge and
continuous experience of results
will assist you to secure not only
the maximum service in belts
and consequent economies of
factory operation, but will in-
sure the effective transmission
of power with its accompani-
ment of maximum output of
machines or plant.
Our Specification of Goodyear
Belting carries with it the accept-
ance of responsibility for its
satisfactory service and wear.
Distributors throughout A ustrcilia :
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED
ADELAIDE, MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, BRISBANE, PERTH.
m —i
• B E LTi N G * HO SE ■ K I N G ■ VALVES


MAXI
Selected Quality Leather Belting
There is no mystery about the quality of “MAXI”
Australian-made Leather Belting. The yearly output of
the Tannery runs into many thousands of hides. There
is a wide scope of selection from such a mountain of
leather.
The above illustration, drawn from a photograph, shows a 12in.
Heavy “MAXI” Double Leather Belt, transmitting 80 h.p. under
the most gruelling conditions. Belt speed is 8828 F.P.M.
7ft. from centre of Driving Pulley ( dia.) to centre of
Driven Pulley (71in. dia), with 18in. Idler Pulley as a gravity
tightener. . Note the short drive where flexibility is essential.
The recording dial shows that there is absolutely no slippage and
that trouble is unknown. Full power is being silently trans-
mitted.
When buying your next belt, write or 'phone for one of our
practical men to 'Consult with your engineers. This will not
commit you to buying or place you under any obligation. It
will put your buying on the one basic consideration—the work
to be performed.
WRITE FOR QUOTATIONS AND PARTICULARS.
JAMES HARDIER COY. LTD..
SYDNEY,
York and Wynyard
Streets.
MELBOURNE,
581-3 Little
Collins Street.
ADELAIDE,
30 Currie Street.
Kouxom
name that stands for quality.
*Ti
Gv&nettr
Why be a slave to work
when Hotpoint Electrical
Appliances can save so
much drudgery?
In addition to their use-
fulness they are so beauti-
fully finished that they
form an attractive addi-
tion to any home.
Illustrated is a handy little
Grill and Ovenette which
will cook at the table a
meal for two or three
persons.
Think how cool and
simple cooking is under
these conditions.
Here, too, is a Hotpoint
Iron; note the attached
stand, which saves lifting,
and the thumb-rest at the
side of the handle. This
makes guiding easy and
materially helps the wrist.
See these and the many
other remarkable little
labor-saving devices dis-
played in our showrooms.
WG WATSON &C°L TD
279 Clarence St Svdney
I'he Ballarat Banking Co. (Ballarat,
Vic.) :
Added to Re-
I ronts. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
June, 1912..£4395 7#p.c. = £3187 £l2OB £82,113
Dec., 1912.. 4451 8 „ „ 3400 1081 83,193
June, 1913.. 4449 8 ~ „ 3400 1049 84,242
Dec., 1913.. 4480 8 „ „ 3400 1080 85,322
n" le ’ 8 » >* 3400 HU 86,436
? ’ ? 4 " * 4^34 8 „ „ 3400 1134 57.570
June, 1915. . 4066 8 „ „ 3400 1166 88,736
Dec., 1910. . 4581 9 ~ „ 3825 756 89,492
June, 1916.. 4611 9 „ „ 3525 786 9(L278
Dec., 1916.. 4633 9 „ „ 3825 SOB 91’086
June, 191/.. 4678 9 „ „ 3825 853 91.939
Dec., 1917,. 5238 10 „ ~ 4250 988 92 927
June, 1918.. 6267 10 „ „ 4250 1017 93.’944
Dec., 1918.. 5294 10 ~ „ 4250 1044 94,988
June, 1919.. 5270 10 ~ ~ 4250 1020 96,008
Dec., 1919.. 5283 10 . „ „ 4250 1033 97.041
June, 1920.. 5433 10 ~ ~ 4250 1183 98,224
Reserves capitalised, £42,500
This is tiie only provincial bank in the Com-
monwealth. It has been in business 5(1 years,
but has never made any serious attempt to
widen its field of operations. Last year
though, it sent a couple of its staff down
the street to open a branch at East Ballarat,
and, apparently, that move has given it the
care of just a. little more of the district’s
shekels. But with the big affluent concerns
m competition across the road and around
the corner its chances of expanding much are
very slight. Because its entire interests are
confined within very narrow limits it cannot
with safety entertain the risks the big inter-
national and interstate banks, tp whom
Ballarat is a mere speck on the map, can
undertake. Two of its competitors—the Nat-
ional and Colonial—amalgamated forces a
couple of years ago, and now the E. S. and
A. and London are following suit, and con-
sidering the impressiveness of these and other
concerns it is surprising how the Ballarat
Banking Co. has held its ground ; though, if
the all-round expansion of banking figures
during the past few years be taken into
account, it is questionable whether it really
has maintained its position. Compared with
30 years ago, it is holding £lO,OOO or so less
of the public’s money. The balance-sheet
movements over the past five have been as
follows:
_ .. . , 7915. 1919. 1920.
Capital an;] reserves £177,136 £185,258 £187.974
Liabilities . . . . 234,259 256,844 291 480
Liquid assets . . 97,265 95,439 106 161
Advances .. .. 311,533 344,163. 370,793
Premises . , . . 2,597 2,500 6,508
On paper, it offers exceptionally good
security to its depositors. At June 30 it
showed 335. 4d. of assets to meet every £
of liabilities and 7s. 3d. of each £ of debts
was in cash and public securities, etc., leav-
ing 265. Id. of advances and premises (book
value) to meet every 12s. 9d. of liabilities
not covered by liquid assets. This means
that the assets not immediately soluble would
have to lose over 50 p.c. of their book value
before creditors were denied a penny. Hav-
ing only 31s. of the public’s money to assist
every 20s. of its own funds, and Ballarat
not being a centre which produces much
profitable exchange business, profits are
necessarily slender. Since reserves exceed
paid capital, the 10 p.c. divs. are actually
equal to only a poor 4| p.c. on shareholders’
funds. But the div. rate as shown by the
co. will be milder-looking in future: the
directors are dipping into reserves for
£42,500 to increase paid capital to £127,500.
Accounts henceforth will be presented only
once each year.
The Austral lIAt Mills, Ltd. (Mel-
bourne) :—•
t Dividends N Written Re-
June, Profits. Prof. Old. Off. serves.
1909.. £1612 7 p.c.=£ll9o 3* p.e.=£l7s £174 £1,324
1910.. 2559 7 „ „ 1190 10 ~ „ 500 269 1,924
1911 . . 2678 74 „ „ 1275 104 „ ~ 525 412 2,390
Premiums on new shares, £BOO .. 3,190
On all shares.
1912.. 5019 9 p.c. = £2201 999 5,009
1913.. 4460 9 „ „ 2700 1018 5,751
1914.. 968 4 „ ~ 1200 318 5,201
1915.. 1512 Nil 435 6,278
1916.. 3629 10 p.c. = 3000 425 6,482
1917.. 4144 10 „ „ 3000 517 7,109
1918.. 4798 10 ~ ~ 3000 812 8,095
1919.. 4551 10 ~ „ 3000 725 8,921
1920.. 6964 10 „ „ 3000 1514 11,371
This co. has had a record year, and the
directors don’t explain how they managed it.
The I’, and L. account is almost as silent
as the directors: the results of trading
operations are shown in one line, the net
profit for the past year being given as £4775.
But an amount in excess of half the paid
capital is invested in War Loan, and the in-
come therefrom is credited direct to reserves.
The first column of the table also includes
amounts written off' premises and plant, and
the £1514 for the past year was double the
provision made in recent terms.
To explain the improved profits since 1915
it; is only necessary to present this com-
parison of imports of headwear since the war
started :
Felt Hats.
t A —— 1
Kur, do/.." Wool, doz.
1914- .. .. 35,832 18,716
1915- ~ .. 35,250 12,626
1916- .. .. 19,508 4.341
1917- .. .. 14,872 3,042
1918- .. .. 9,514 2,325
War contracts and that falling off of imports
gave local industry . its chance, and the
factories had consolidated their position so
well that when post-war imports flooded into
the Commonwealth very few hats were
included. Judging by the progress returns,
during the year ended June SO last there
vvas a further fall in the number of imported
lids. It has taken a world-wide war and
subsequent economic chaos to give the Aus-
tralian hat-maker a reasonable opportunity
in his home market. Notwithstanding that
the industry had ex-hatter Frank Tudor as
Minister attending to tariff matters in the
past, insufficient protection had been afforded
the local hat mills to guarantee their future.
In pre-war days not only was the local
manufacturer at the mercy of the cheaper-
labor product from overseas, but he was also
more or less under the heel of the foreign
fashion-rigger. The wretched £450 net pro-
fit for 1913-14 was the result of a new-fashion
surprise sprung on this co. by the importers.
No industry could be expected to make much
progress or improve the .appearance and
quality of its output under such uncertain
trading conditions. It has been the tem-
porary removal of some of the foreign in-
fluences besetting Australian industry which
has resulted in the great advance made
during the past few years. Just at present
the local hat mills are freed of serious ex-
ternal competition by the troubles which the
older-world is suffering; but only high Pro-
tection can assure the future of the industry
The new tariff provides but a mild increase.
Another view of the progress Austral Ilat
.Mills. L‘td., lias made is given by this com-
parison
1910. 1915. 1920.
Liabilities .. £9,560 £484 £4,493
Freeholds, plant, etc. . . 9,759 11,917 8,480
Stock . . . . . . 20,864 18,264 1 9 < >B6
Book debts . . . . 3,645 2,832 3 239
Cash and investments . . 316 3,748 23^359
War Loan, deposits and cash represent
practically one-half of total assets. There are
net liquid assets of £34,391 and £B4BO of
V™ < L5 sset &. t< ? a paid capital of
£30,000. \\ ith that excellent security for
capital, accompanied by regular 10 p.c. divs„
shareholders have done very well lately,
though on their total funds in the business
the div. return is not much better than 7 p.c.
Concerning fresh meat and a frozen Board :
Unless somebody stirs the N. S. Wales Pure Food
Board into action, the Commonwealth is threatened
with the loss of a process for preserving meat which,
i( all works out as it. promises, should be worth
millions to this continent. Nine years ago a Maori-
lander, 1,. F. Bullot, became interested in experi-
ments to keep meat fresh without the aid of the
fi eezing'-chamber, the early efforts were unsuccess-
ful, but in 1913 Bullot devised a process which,
though it maintained the freshness for a couple of
weeks, left a taste of the ingredients. The process
promised so well, though, that he took qpt world’s
patents and then proceeded to develop the idea. He
has since eliminated the foreign taste and demon-
strated that for a small capital outlay beef and'
mutton can be handled at a cost of 3d. per 1001 b. and
rabbits, poultry, etc., at half that cost. The pro-
cess consists of subjecting carcases, within half an
hour of slaughter, to certain fumes for from 16
to 24 hours. This meat will keep unfrozen for Vit
least 14 days it has actually kept its freshness
ior almost a month under trying conditions—and
maintains all the qualities of fresh-killed meat and
is more tender. Further, the treated carcases can
be frozen and will keep four to five days after
defrosting, retaining, moreover, the juices and flavor
usuany lost in frozen mutton.
Bullot-treated meats have been tested and
favorably reported on by Dr, Chapman, of
Sydney Uni.; Dr. Stokes, bacteriologist; the
Commonwealth Government veterinary inspectors;
the N.S.W. Meat Industry Board and a number of
analysts. Doubt was expressed by several of the
experts as to whether the public would take to the
preserved meat. Orange (N.S.W.) dispelled
those doubts, for the syndicate behind Bullot,
having secured permission from the Pure Food Board
to go into the retail trade there for six months
from Nov., 1918, is still providing more than half
the meat supplies of that district, which has armed
it with dozens of testimonials. But the Pure Food
Board has leg-roped the process: it refuses to recom-
mend an alteration of the Pure Food Regulations
which will permit the process to be put into general
operation. The regulations allow the use of up to
3gr. of sulphur dioxide per lb. as a preservative in
mince and sausage meats ; but for three years the Board
las side-stepped the Bullot syndicate’s application
01 whole meats to be also embraced by the regula-
tion. Notwithstanding the opinions of Professor
Chapman and Dr. Stokes, both of whom are satis-
fied that the amount of- sulphur dioxide in Bullot
meat—well under the amount allowed by the pre-
sent regulations, and half of which disappears in
the cooking can have no injurious effect on con-
sumers, the P.F. Board continues to hold up the
question and thus effectively prevents the Bullot
people getting to work, to the great joy of certain
tested interests, and also delays the formation of the
co. which it is proposed should operate the process
throughout the world.
N. S. \\ ales Health-Minister McGirr recently called
for a report from the Board, which, after deferring
consideration for about two months, again side-
stepped by recommending that, “in view of the
fact that certain of the other States were consider-
ing the elimination of sulphur dioxide from all
articles of food," the matter should be referred to
the Premiers’ Conference “with a view to the Com-
monwealth being asked to appoint a scientific com-
mittee to investigate the effect upon the human
system of sulphur dioxide when eaten with food.”
M hen letters from the Health Departments of other
States showed that no elimination of the preserva-
tive was contemplated and the matter was again
referred to the P. F. Board, it finally decided by
four votes to three not to grant the request for an
amendment of the regulations, but this time sug-
gested a State investigating committee. Minister
McGirr consented on July 4, and requested the Board
to nominate the committee. Apparently, requests
even from its own official head will not move this
Board, for up to the moment of writing nothing
further has been heard of the matter.
If the Board sincerely wants a scientific inquiry it
can have one started immediately by nominating
the., men to investigate. A strange feature about the
Board’s attitude, however, is that, though sulphur
dioxide has apparently got it worried, no attempt
is made to shut the Bullot shops in Orange. The
permit to trade in preserved meat expired about 18
months ago, yet the business is still carried on, and
the Board turns a deaf ear to all invitations to pro-
secute for a breach of the regulations. The Bullot
people are meantime becoming exasperated, and
unless they are given the hearing which their process
unquestionably demands, there will be no option but
to pack up and make for new fields, where health
authorities do not take three years to make up
their minds. If the process is all it looks, the
Commonwealth cannot afford to lose it. The pre-
servation of fresh meat not only prevents much
waste, but may revolutionise the local and overseas
meat trades. By killing and treating in country
centres meat supplies can be railed -at one-third
the present cost, while the expense of retailers’
freezing-chambers would be eliminated. Further,
the present loss of weight in railing would be
saved, and that means that approximately 11 country-
killed Bullot-treated sheep would go as far as a
dozen now sent to the city saleyards.
A new coal-mining venture at Dobson
(M.L.) intends to give the Whitley system
of joint-control a trial. A number of
shares are to be allocated to the local
union, which will elect one director to the
Board. Profit-sharing and. later, educational
grants to employees’ children are to be a
feature of the scheme.


I
$
as
%
&
%
;
I
*
Sr
$
nt
%
ti=llflßflßQ
sSbim
*%•
m
S,
I
&
S
»
Si»
m
i I
H I
i F
r
"m
m
n>
Hi
■:•?
IV?
B
A Million
Rubber Trees Are
Tapped Continually
in (the East Indian plantations of
the United States Rubber Company.
Over five thousand young rubber
trees are planted there every day.
Over five million trees are now
under cultivation.
Imagine the extent of this scientific
production of rubber. It means the
finest foundation for the finished
rubber articles.
That is where good rubber comes
from. It goes into the many good
rubber products that bear the seal
of the United States Rubber Com-
pany —the world’s largest rubber
manufacturer. They are good be-
cause they have this good foundation
and because the forty-seven great
factories of the United States Rub-
ber Company are standardized to
maintain this goodness throughout.
UNITED STATES RUBBER COMPANY
(AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED,
Head Office: 53 York Street, Sydney.
Australian Branches! 130-2 William Street, Melbourne.
78 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
New Zealand Branches: 72-4 Jervois Quay, Wellington; and
Christchurch.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-129 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Q SI
Hotel
TARIFF:
15/- per Day
8/6 Bed & Breakfast
C.R.Kerp
Pr»opr»ieK>r»
45 bwanston 5L
a Melbourne /
King George IV
IVIIW WHISKY
44
Yi
THE TOPjNOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Scottie Thrake”: In a small patch of
scrub within sight of the Einasleigh River (N.Q.),
and at no great distance below Cobb and Cq.’s old
ccach load, are the Ambo hot springs. The water
flows from several funnels set in mounds of sediment
rock, and is carried by a small creek into the river.
It is just below boiling-point, and though it gives
off a distinct odor of chemicals makes fair tea, and
when cooled is as good as boiled water generally is
to drink. The chemical contents redden and irritate
the skin. We found this out after having a bath
in a warm pool in the creek. It is splendid for
washing clothes. All we did was to tie our washing
on. bits of fishing-line and lower them into the water.
Heavy moleskin trousers that nothing short of a
week’s boiling with soda would clean were snow-
white after being in this water for 24 hours. One
morning I lowered my best flannel shirt in, and on
returning for it that night found a mass of jelly
floating about. I couldn’t believe it was my shirt
until I took it, on a shovel, down to the fire and
examined it. Incidentally my mate put his bare
foot into it shortly after, and, judging by the re-
marks he made, I should say that it was the
warmest bit of fluff he’d ever had anything to do
with. The place is littered with old bones and
skulls of birds, kangaroo-rats, etc. Probably the
blacks of bygone days used the springs to cook their
game.
* * -V *
“Exnl”: “Bad Australian” (B. 5/8/’2O)
says the flesh of the llama is of inferior quality,
“closely resembling that of kangaroo.” Well, I’ve
never eaten N.S.W. kanga., but I can assure “Bad
Aus.” that the flesh of the Tasmanian variety is
very far from inferior. Hang the hindquarters for
two days, then roast with plenty of seasoning and
serve with gravy and red-currant jelly. I’ve eaten
it plenty of times, and always came back for more,
and everyone I’ve known try it is of the same
opinion as myself. I’ve often felt saddened by the
waste of good meat in heaps of carcases I’ve seen
left by the skinners.
* * * *
“Mirza” : “Leo Lear” (B. 5/8/’2O) asks
a few questions about strychnine. (1) “How long
will it last?” It is permanent in air, practically
insoluble in water and very resistant to putrefaction,
so that it can be recovered from the body many
years (three in a recorded case) after death. (2)
“Does the poison get into the bones?” Certainly
it does; it is absorbed from the stomach into the
blood stream, and can be demonstrated chemically
in all the tissues. In fact, the poison will remain
in the solid bones long after wind and rain have.
disintegrated the soft parts. (3)
“Does it affect only stomach and
heart?” It doesn’t affect them
directly. Its main action is on
the nervous system, where it
lowers the resistance to the pas-
sage of impulses, so that even
trifling stimuli, such as a cool
draught or a bright light, will
Start one of the typical spasms
in which the muscles (including
the diaphragm) are firmly con-
tracted. Owing to the respi-
ratory muscles being out of action
the sufferer often dies from
asphyxia during the spasm. Or
he may have 20 to 30 seizures in
rapid succession and succumb to
exhaustion or heart failure. (4)
“Will cows that eat poisoned rab-
bits die?” It depends entirely on
the dose. What would settle a
' bunny would only slightly incon-
venience Strawberry. But the
frenzied cocky who is making an
attack on the pest doesn’t ad-
minister the minimum lethal dose.
He makes a cert, of the job, so
that Brer Furcoat gets at least
two grains, which is sufficient to
kill a man. About 4 to 5 per
cent, of the total absorbed would be in the bones.
The presence of strych. won’t make the bones last
longer.
* * * *
“W. Blister”: That 14-year-old wether
mentioned by “O. Smith” (B. 15/7/’2O) is no Methu-
selah. In June, 1907, Jack Brumby brought 4000
sheep from Charleville (Q.) to Mt. Stuart (N.S.W.).
They were then over 12 months old, and the other
day I saw three or four of the ewes from that mob,
quite healthy and in fair condition. These ewes
have survived several severe droughts, besides rearing
numerous lambs.
* * * *
“W.C.M.”: How long do centipedes live
without air or nourishment? Saw a big pine log cut
in a mill the other day. The log was quite sourjd,
about 90 inches in girth, and right in the heart
was found a four-inch centipede alive. It was
almost white, but quite vigorous. The tree must
have been about a hundred years old.
“Gagi”: It seems incredible, but those 200
Chinese wrecked on Rossel Island and eaten by blacks
are no fiction. As “Dolphin” suggests (B. 5/8/’2O),
200 Chows would be a pretty tough proposition
for the needy and scanty native population. But
the nigs used strategy. The Chows first camped on
the sands in fear of the blacks in the bush. But
thirst soon drove them inland, and the slaughter
began. One by one the yellow men dropped with
fatigue or had an “accident” —with a nigger behind
it. Just before the end the Chinks ran amok and
some of the natives paid for their feeds. But
THE REASON.
FIRST PASSENER : “We’re getting up a tug-of-war between a team of married men and
a team of single men. You’re married, aren’t you?”
SECOND DO. : “No, I’m only seasick — that’s what makes me look like this.”
superior bushcraft and knowledge of the scrub told,
and the Chows were still further reduced in number.
After that the Chows seem to have taken it lying
down, and either died or were killed off as wanted.
Five escaped by hiding on the beach and floating
off on wreck-spars at night. They could hear anil
see bits of the tragedy during the seven days they
lay hidden under sea drift, trying to summon suffici-
ent nerve to go.
* * * *
“Hagar”: Bunny was responsible for the
warmest camp I’ve had this winter. I was held
up near the N.S.W.-Q. border, and not having any
kit with me the boss of the survey camp offered
me a shakedown on a couple of rabbit-skin rugs.
Each rug was made up of 160 skins, 80 on
each side, sewed skin to skin, with the fur facing
outwards. I have snored in bear-skin sleeping-bags
in Canada, and in tarpaulin lined with sheep-skin
in Northern China ; but I doubt whether they were
as warm as the double-barrelled bunny blankets.
By the way, have you ever tried a tarred canvas
sleeping-bag lined with a couple of ordinary blan-
kets? It makes an A 1 hold-all, and it packs easy
on the pack-saddle; it’s weatherproof, and it means
a warm camp on the coldest night.
“Sir Spen”: At Cuttabunda, near Bre-
warrina (N.S.W.), the station’s beef rations had
been yarded, and my father was preparing to finish
the business with a .44 Winchester. The stockyard
was a square one. Aim was directed due east from
a spot near the south-west corner of the yard. At
the moment dad’s brother was leaning on one of
the rails just round the north-west corner. The
bullock’s head was turned slightly in that direction.
When the shot was fired it glanced off the thick
bone at the top of the beast’s forehead, merely
stunning him, followed the curve of the horn for its
entire length, and lodged in the rail in front of
my uncle’s chest, thereby completing two sides of
a triangle that measured less than 45 degrees at the
apex.
* * * *
“141”: There is nothing out of the ordi-
nary about a 14-year-old merino wether (B.
15/7/’2O). A grazier near Cooma (N.S.W.) has
one which he poddied in 1901. When I saw the old
chap about 12 months ago he still had a full mouth.
“Te Whare”: Early settlers seem to
have made considerable use of the native sarsapa-
rilla (Smilax glycyphylla), which they knew as
“sweet tea” and often used in place of the real
article, especially when sugar was unobtainable.
Infusions of the leaves, etc., were also used to
counteract debility and for colds, and most house-
holds had their carefully-corked bottle of sarsa-
parilla on the shelf. But little, if any, commercial
use seems to be made of our sarsaparilla. The
imported stuff sold in bottles almost invariably
contains, besides iodide of potassium, several herbal
extracts, the sarsaparilla being used as a base. Tlx
true plant is Often confused with the shrub known
as hardenbergia, which bears a profusion of purple-
blue flowers, followed by bean-like pods. The chief
differences are that true sarsaparilla is a climber,
with tendrils, and bears in summer small greenish
flowers succeeded by dark-purple berries about the size
of buckshot. All parts of the true plant are intensely
sweet, while the leaves of hardenbergia have little
sweetness and are more astringent. I have found
the native sarsaparilla most at home about secluded
and rocky hills and gullies, often in company with
the more showy impostor. It is a hardy vegetable,
and recovers wonderfully after bush fires have swept
over it.
* * * *
“Steel Wire”: Re Alf Parsons and his put-
ting up of 505 fencing-posts in one day. It was
on Columbo (Q.) he made that record. He is still
on the fencing game, and is at present on Ularunda.
* * * *
“Jimsey” : The yarn about poddy-stealing
(B. 22/7/’2O) recalls my first droving trip. When
a youngster I got the job of taking 30 poddies to
a station about 70 miles distant. I turned up,
feeling very proud of myself, with the 30 safe
and sound, and expected to be congratulated on
having made a good journey. Instead of that, the
squatter, when handing me my cheque, said: “Any-
way. you’re a —• —- innocent. A good man could
have doubled the number on that trip.” He died
a few years back worth a little over £lOO,OOO.
“Wessel”: A new chum in Western
Queensland making his first journey into the Gulf
country felt his nerves a bit shaky when he was
belated while travelling on a lonely track through
the bush. They went altogether when he turned
a bend and met a big buck abo. stark naked,
armed with a spear. The white man felt for his
revolver, and at the same time started to talk
Bareoo English to the myall. But he had another
shock when the savage remarked in a casual way:
“I wonder if you can tell me what won the Cup
at Adelaide yesterday. I had half a sovereign on
Bobtail myself, and liked his chances.’' He was
groom to a sporty doctor in the township, but used
to go bush every once in a while.
(Continued on page 26.)
RIVERINA WAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Walking under gum and pine
(Trees that ne’er shall grow again)
When the air was sweet as wine
To the throats of thirsty men,
Thus I loved to be of old,
In the dear, dim, perished days
When the sun threw down his gold
On the Riverina ways.
Evermore I heard the birds
Singing in the golden bloom—
Could I put their joy in words
Done and dead were thoughts of gloom ;
Could I but their gospel write
All the world would hail my rhyme,
For they sang of life and light,
Life and light outlasting time.
Musing under pine and gum
(Trees that never more shall grow),
When the noontide still and dumb
Set their limbs and leaves aglow,
Thus I loved to spend the hours
In the dim, dear, perished days,
Girt around with grass and flowers
Dn the Riverina ways.
Evermore pine-incense rose,
Setting all the air a-swoon;
Evermore in calm repose
Leaned the gum-trees in the noon ;
Careless they of care and wrong,
Soulful they of calm and peace—
Could I put their mood in song
Strife and war would surely cease!
Healthful under gum and pine
(Trees that nevermore shall bloom),
Pleasure mine, and freedom mine,
Leagues and leagues of elbow room,
Thus I was when life was young
In the dear, dim perished days,
When red cattle, lowing, strung
Down the Riverina ways.
Evermore the cattle lowed,
Moving on they knew not where,
Evermore on route and road,
Tortured not by doubt or care,
Troubled not by wind or way.
Days behind or days before —
Could the world but be as they
Then the world would grieve no more.
THE INCENDIARY FIRES OF YOUTH.
DEADBEAT DAN : “An’ once, mum, I ’ad
money to burn. An’ that wus the
trouble, mum—I burnt it.”
THE LADY: “You burnt it! How?”
DEADBEAT DAN : “Wiv an old flame o’ mine,
mum.”
Gone is pine and gone is gum,
Done to death by brand and blade,
Some to ashes grey, and some
Into post and panel made ;
Wheat and corn the world demands,
Use is lord of all our days ;
Where they stood the harvest stands,
Down the Riverina ways.
Mallee fowl no more abide
Where of old I watched them lurk ;
Over acres, rich and wide,
Plough and hoe have done their work;
Gone is all the wildwood life,
Gone the magic of old days,
Gone the charm that once was rife
Round the Riverina ways.
Helped alike by sun and rain,
Hopeful that the earth will yield
Gracious grass and golden grain,
Ploughs the ploughman in the field.
All his day-dreams, all his toil,
Lit perchance by hopes of ease.
Yet I think the mothering soil
Keeps remembrance of her trees.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


-ma' 0 '
nee?
10
Sa e
■no-
-1&
C»-
10
S*V
Bl°
JP
O*
f!V;
teT
i.o»
(je'a 3
5-eYj
tt 0J - j
' 0
B V
#■ ...» "lists'w==*
ieT
tOT
L -** us &3 e °
i 1 „»t
j,
SSE
H
m
LISTER
wH
Mil
tools
9
and
scrapped
It s a pity to scrap good tools, but it s a paying game
not to buy tools if you haven’t any for them.
And if you don’t need the tools you won t need the
time spent in using them. That s why there s a lot
more saving than just the £5 worth of tools scrapped
BY USING THE
en
is
“8” HANDPIECE
WITH SELF-LEVELLING CROWN PLATE
AND ADJUSTABLE SPLIT LID BUSH.
All the Lister Improvements aim at all-round economy—economy
in effort for the shearer, economy in time and trouble tor the
expert, and economy in expense for the flock-owner.
If you haven’t seen the Lister Patent Self-levelling Crown Plate
you aren’t keeping up with shearing-machine improvements. It
saves 90 per cent, of fitting time, assures a perfectly-level tension
for the shearer, and outlasts ten old-style crown plates. it can
be fitted to other handpieces besides Lister. Thousands have
been fitted already this season, but it s not yet too late for yours.
CHIEF AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA:
DANGAR, GEDYE (EX CO. LTD.
9-13 Young Street, SYDNEY.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD. y Brisbane.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Townsville.
MITCHELL & CO. PTY., LTD., Melbourne.
A. W. SANDFORD & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
MALLOCH BROS., Perth.
DO YOU DANCE?
This season a great impetus has been given to
the impromptu at home. The newest and
latest Fox Trots, Hesitation, Tango and One-steps
complete with Jazz variations can be played with
correct rhythm and in strict dancing time on the
"HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
and
COLUMBIA GRAFONOLA
Instruments. You can dance as long as you
like to this music. Call in and inspect these
magnificent instruments for yourself. We have
many thousands of records to choose from.
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA, ROCKHAMPTON, LISMORE, NEWCASTLE,
Rfl
m
'•A
I
&
WRITE FOR
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
and
PRICE LIST.


INFLUENZA IS VERY PREVALENT IN N. S. WALES TO-DAY.
Take CLEMENTS TONIC for Your Blood
Pure blood means less risk of infection and greater powers of resistance to influenza attacks
the body. Influenza thrives on the weak debilitated system.
The purer the blood the stronger
There is a good deal of influenza prevalent m Sydney and N. S. Wales to-day, so much so that it behoves every person to take
measures of self protection. Influenza is a germ disease, and attacks principally those whose systems are run down and those
whose nerve strength and resisting powers are at a low ebb. Those whose blood is pure and rich in health qualities are by Nature
strong and fortified against epidemic attacks of any character. v There is no better blood-enriching medicine than Clements Tonic
It is a remedy known all over Australia for many human ills, and testified to by thousands.
This medicine has for a quarter of a century been admitted one of rare health value in keeping the nerves sound and the blood
cool and pure, and should now be used as a means to fortify the body and the general health. It tones up the stomach, has a
palliative effect on the bowels, stimulates the liver and kidneys, and imparts a healthy influence. Clements Tonic is largely a
blood and nerve medicine, and should be a part of the medical equipment of every home.
Clements Tonic, Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W
USE IT AS THE PURE BLOOD REMEDY.
■Jimsey”: The travelling Cornstalk who
.old “lo Po” (B. 12/8/’2O) that myall generates
too much heat for ordinary stove cooking was pro-
longing his limb. Used by itself myall is not an
exceptionally good burning wood, but mixed witu
some other good fuel I have no complaints to make
about it. Red gum, red box and woolly-butt all
generate more heat when burnt alone than myall
does. Of all our burning woods I think mallee
is the very best. You can always depend on it
burning to the last splinter.
“S.C.McL.”: “FY7” (B. 5/S/’2O) still
argues that the bottle-tree’s soft, pithy nature com-
mends it for making shields, and he compares it with
a sandbag as a bullet-resister. Might as well say
the same about a batch of dough. “Vincimus” (B.
29/7/’2O) writes also with reference to the tree.
He says the coastal scrubs are its natural situation,
and he doesn’t remember seeing one in the West
except as a man-planted ornamental tree. All I can
say is that, assuming he knows the West, if his
eyesight isn't bad his memory is defective.
* * * *
“Ragar”: Attended a bush dance, just
inside the Q. border, and learned another use for
the kerosene-tin. The tins had been cut open long-
ways, nailed upright at Bft. intervals against the
walls, and made to serve as brackets and reflectors
A TRAGEDY OF SPRING.
for any old lamp that came to hand. There’s a
selector some 20 miles from Rockhampton (Q.) who
uses a home-made maize-planter. A kerosene-tin
acts as the magazine ; this is fastened to a sapling,
one end of which is attached to a wheel with iron
spikes on the tyre—four of them, 12in. apart. By
a cunning arrangement two or three grains of maize
are released through a hole in the bottom of the
tin, and fall into the hole made by the spike. The
man pushing the contraption covers the seed with
his foot as he passes over it. The proud inventor
declares that he can plant more ground in a day
than any other man by any other means. He was
certainly making it a welter when I saw him.
“Spanish Bridle”: Many an ancient car-
ries around a spud in his pocket as a cure for, or
protection against, rheumatism. What i 3 the origin
of this? I did it for some time, and sure enough
my twinges vanished. The Murphy is involuntarily
clutched in the palm, and raises great heat, per-
haps acting like a poultice. Incidentally, I once
knew an old skipper who always carried two or
three spuds. While berthing his ship at a wharf
his remarks were most biting; and when words
failed he would hurl a rheumatic cure at any go-
slowite who merited his particular disapproval.
“Native Bear” : Chaps on the outer track
should wear an identification disc. Lately in Nor-
thern Queensland we buried an old warrior, who
had nothing on him to establish his identity except
a pocket-knife with the initials “J.C.” scratched on
the handle. After my mate had read the burial
service he looked hard at the engraved pocket-knife
and thought. Presently I heard him mutter, “Well,
he may be Julius Caesar or he may be Somebody
Else.”
“Tubbo”: Anyone know of any record
times for skinning a sheep (warm dead) on the
ground? Have investigated several reported one-
minute cases, but mostly found that it took the men
nearer two minutes. Minute and a half is the best I
have seen. I have noticed that, though most fast
men pull off from the head back, others equally fast
pull from the tail first.
THE IMPORTED VARIETY.
“Lend me 24 matches to light my pipe with, Bill.”
“Bung”: Bush birds of a species are in-
variably so alike when young that it requires an
expert naturalist to distinguish the sexes. The
parent chooks, however, never err, and in families
where both attend to the tucker department dad looks
after the males and mum brings up the chirpy
flappers. In mature age these males and females
often differ in size, form and coloring to an extra-
ordinary degree, the divergence going on over many
years. The male lory parrot, green when young,
changes to a crimson red in his third year, and
the head of the satin-bird family does not get into
his blue-black gown before his seventh birthday.
* * * *
“Ragar”: The Papuan described by
“Baba” (B. 22/7/’2O) doesn’t exist. In real life •
our Dark-chocolate Brother is bone-lazv, plugged full
of superstition, a born liar and thief, dirty
above the average, arid knows nothing and
cares less about indigenous vegetables,
animals, insects, birds, fish and reptiles—
unless they are good kaika.i. His knowledge
of astronomy is something i have never
come across, though some of him believe
that certain stars are the spirits of de-
parted heroes of the head-hunting fraternity. If
“Baba” is a missionary I can understand his yarn.
Nobody knows the real nigger less. The missionary
only gets to know the humbug.
* * * #
“O’Kell B.”: “Central West” is right
when he says that it is exceptional for a horse
to buck 30 seconds, but he has seen very few of the
breeds that taught me how hard the ground is if he
believes that no properly handled horse will really
buck the first time it is ridden. I’ve had dozens
of youngsters deal the joker and right and left
bowers as soon as the girth tightened. Bad handling
will keep a colt bucking day after day, when proper
handling will smother this primal instinct, the colt
being led to understand that it is both a useless
and a needless performance. When I knew a frac-
tion of what I know now about horses, I made a
bogus reputation as one who could “break in” a
colt without allowing it to buck. If I saw that I
had a mob which included a few determined to
buck in spite of all the arts and wiles I knew, 1
got up at daylight and “gave them a go.” After-
wards, when all hands were at the yard, I could
ride them away quietly. The following year I
would find the girls riding them, while those with
a desire to jazz, but whom 1 was able to coax not
to, were emptying boundary-riders out all over the
inn. But what is “proper” handling, anyhow?;
Mention any system or style and immediately there
are hundreds to snort “Rot!” There will never be
any real progress in practical and scientific horse-
handling until the R.A. Society wakes up. At pre-
sent there is no standard, and the confusion of ideas
makes the average horsebreaker’s efforts a clumsy,
laborious experiment, while the horse-owner never
knows—especially if his youngster has plenty of grit
and spirit—whether he will pay for having it prac-
tically ruined. I often think of the horses I ruined
by the kindest intentions, and by coaxing them not
to buck—with me!
“Slaelley”: Beat this. On the Clarence
River (N.S.W.) lately I discovered a bees’ nest
in a blackbutt. As no one had cut it down, though
many had seen it, I asked the reason, and was told
that the bees were only flying in and out at intervals
a sure sign of a bad hive. However, I set to,
got it down, and took 3£ kerosense-tins full and
31b. wax. The hive was Bft. long.
“Dolphin” : Like the infant kangaroo, the
young wombat is in the pouch at a very early stage
of its existence. The museum of the Australian
Institute for Anatomical Research contains a tiny
wombat which was taken from a pouch where it
clung to a teat. It is about an inch long, and
quite hairless. Apropos, when a German scientist
some years ago described a pouch in the egg-laying
echidna there was an idea that he was leg-pulling.
But a specimen of the echidna in the same museum
has a well-marked if rudimentary pouch. This
specimen was pulled out of a burrow by a chap who
at first thought that he had struck a snake when
one of the quills pricked his finger.
* * * *
“Larrapinta” : It happened on the Anean
goldfields (W.A.) in '9l. My mate, Donald Cum-
ming, and I were travelling
from Anean to Cue. We were
short of tucker, and had be;'
living for weeks on damper
and tinned dog, and were more
than due for a change. One
of the stages was very long,
and our horses tired, so we did
not arrive at the shallow clay-
pan till late at night. As
we unrolled swags, with Do
cursing the monotony of o
fare, I thought of a little trea!
I had been carrying in my pack-
saddle —a small packet of
cornflour. This I produced,
and while Don was perusing
the “Instructions for use” by
the firelight, 1 walked to the
elaypan and scooped up a billy
of water. 1 placed the boiler
on the fire and presently stirred
in the cornflour with the last
of our condensed milk, and set
it aside to cool. Then we
turned in. In the morning 1
was awakened by Donald curs-
ing furiously. I sat up. He
was staring into the billy. In
the darkness I had not seen
that the water was swarming
with tadpoles. The “blue
monge” was the color of chocolate, and the boiled
tadpoles were as thick as raisins in plum-pudding.
We had more tinned dog.
* * * *
“Wang” : Ryan's best milker, Brindle, had
got bogged in the Government dam and un-
gracefully succumbed there. Donaldson, Long
Mac and myself discovered the remains. After
two hours’ cursing and struggling we got
her out as far as the edge of the dam.
Then we' deputed Donaldson to go and tell
Ryan of his loss. Donaldson demurred ; but we
stuck to it that he was the most suitable man for
the job. On several occasions he had approached
Ryan with a view to purchasing Brindle, but his
offers hadn’t come up to Ryan’s requirements; so
Mac and I reckoned that, as he was the only one
Of the three of us that had shown any interest in
Bnndle in her lifetime, now she was dead the same
thing obtained. Donaldson departed grumbling. He
met Ryan a t the sliprails of the cow yard.
- ornin . said Ryan, affably. “Mawnin’l” replied
Donaldson. Then, in a hurry to get his unpleasant
job over, he said, “I say, Tim, I called over to
see you ’bout Brindle. She’s” “Now, me bhoy,”
remarked Ryan, quietly, “we’ve talked about' it
ie 01 e. \e know me price—£10, an’ not a penny
less will I take.” “But I wanter tell yer she’s”
-l h, git on wid ye, Jim. She ain’t worth it,
yll be sayin’. Well, I won’t sell her for less, not
a pen in. But, blarst yer, 1” “Now, don’t ye
be losin’ y’ timper agin, Donaldson. Ye know me
price. ’ “But, yer blanky ole fool, just lis’en to me
a minute. ’ “Now, don’t ye be gettin’ insultin’,
Donaldson—l won’t have it. She’s yours for £lO,
not less !” “But, yer blanky ole bandicoot, will yer
lis'n to me? I came to tell yer she’s”
Ryan flew over the sliprails like a bird. “What’s
that ye called me?” he roared. “By the howlv smoke
ill screw y’r damn head off, I will.” Donaldson
didn’t wait for more; he had a fair start, and made
the most of it. When he had put a hundred yards
between himself and Ryan he ventured to stop and
shout: “1 came ter tell yer tIT blankv cow’s”
Ryan kept going strongly. “Ye dirty gossoon to
insult me, an’ addin’ to ut,” he panted. Donaldson
bore down on us like a mob of Huns on a cathedral,
and entrenched himself behind Brindle’s still form!
Rvan came panting up a minute later. “Me good
Goml!” he wailed, and fell back into the mud.
J’hen he raised himself, and, wiping the mud off his
whiskers, addressed Donaldson: “Why th’ hell didn’t
ye tell me she was dead V*
* * * *
“Bright”: So “Spud” (B. 19/8/’2O) has
mot some Hunnish posts in his fence which defv
his efforts with the brace and bit. Tell him to
Hie away the worm of his bit, leaving only the last
turn. Sharpen this turn with a fine file, and when
boring keep a tin of dripping alongside to be applied
to the bit whenever it has a tendency to stick.
By having only a small worm to the bit it gives
the larger cutting portion a better chance to grip,
and minimises the risk of breaking the tool.
* * * *
“F.H.R.” : “Long’un” (B. 29/7/’2O) re-
minds me of a brown snake which became a pet at
our place last summer. There were seven of us
there one afternoon playing “bobs” and making no
end of a row. In the midst of the din three dinner-
plates were sent crashing from the dresser to the
floor. Of course I started to call some of them
cai eless blanks; but just then I was amazed to see
quite a foot of brown snake dipping into the milk-
jug". lhe other portion of our friend was sticking
through a crack in the slabs and lying on a shelf in
the storeroom. Though he had done good work in
keeping the mice down I couldn’t stand him break-
ing the crockery, and while one end was busy sip-
ping milk, the other end took something from a
tomahawk.
* * * »
“Ecla”: “141” (B. 29/7/’2O) wants to
know how to tell male pawpaws from ladies. Tell
him to plant his seeds in a box, and when they are
about 4in. high kill all the tallest and strongest
seedlings. Later on he must do some more elimina-
ting, until he has about six plants left out of 100.
I’ll bet him a new hat 90 per cent, turn out females.
SPEEDING HIM UP A BIT.
REPORTER ( who has seen the revolver go up
six times already): “Hey, shake it up,
old man! I’ve only just got time to get
it in the final edition!”
“Kaione” : “Searchlight’s” story of a man
carrying bees on his umbrella reminds me of an
even stranger sight I witnessed some time ago.
A well-known elderly apiarist in Wanganui (M.L.),
while walking down the main street, had a swarm
of bees settle on his head and shoulders. Wiping
the bees away from his eyes he calmly walked to
the nearest photographer’s, had his photograph taken,
then climbed into his trap and drove to his home
three miles aw r ay.
THE BOXER MULE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The pack-mule on the Poker mine
He was a subtle brute.
His body it was sleek and fine,
And he was sly and mute;
But, oh, he had a rolling eye,
And he was lightning quick—
You had to be extremely spry
To duck his sudden kick.
Mong men who knew the “dunkey” each
Would note with constant fear,
If lie should be within his reach,
The lay of Jerry’s ear.
That ear was just a semaphore,
And signalled coming strife;
You jumped if down on you it bore,
And once more saved your life.
It did not last; the cunning mule
Fell to his fault one day,
Then feinted, making it a rule
To point his ear one way
And kick the other. Quick and deft
This method beat us quite;
And then he’d lift his dirty left,
And land you with his right.
The company sold Jerry when
He’d laid ten truckers low.
They took him to Columbia then;
He joined a travelling show—
A glove on each hind heel (the same
He uses as a fist),
As sparring partner to a fam-
ous nigger pugilist !
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


BACK AGAIN !
WINFRED
Cigarettes.
The World’s Favorite.
GOLD TIPPED.
IQ for 9d.
SHIPMENTS JUST LANDED.
Obtainable Everywhere.


Tke
Purest
Spirit
irvtKe
World.
WIJE
M 0
Fife's schnap^
CROUP
EVERY Drop of
“hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
A Plain
Fact!
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street, SYDNEY.
In spite of unmerciful ridicule, she brought
the suffrage movement into prominence, and
for 16 yejirs she labored in its cause with
tongue a n d pen. In 1899 she was incapa-
citated by a tram accident, and never fully
recovered. She' refused to sell the Dawn,
but in 1904, the goal having been attained,
it ceased publication. Her declining years
were spent in her cottage at Marrickville
under the care of her bachelor son Charles.
She sleeps beside her father, Henry Albury,
at Rookwood Cemetery—a fine Australian
woman who labored all her life for what she
deemed to be the right.
G. O’C.
The Celtic Revival
To answer fully Maire Mackay (B.
29/7/’2O) it is only necessary to touch a
single point in her remarkable outpouring.
She says “somewhere it is said that India
gave to ancient Ireland the ancient wisdom,
through her round towers, in Druid times.”
“Somewhere” quite a lot of things are said,
but a lot of those things are not said truly.
The round towers do not belong to Druid
times at all, nor did any Druid live within
four or five centuries of the time when the
first stone was laid in the first tower. Fifty
years ago those towers were matter of great
controversy; now the settled opinion of an-
tiquaries, resting on proved facts in relation
to portions of their building, is that they
belong to about the period of the Danish in-
vasion and link up architecturally with other
mediaeval work to be foilnd in Northern Italy.
Further, there is not one shadow of ground
for supposing that Druidism had the re-
motest connection with Indians, negroes or
any other black or brown peoples. It
belongs to a better and every way nobler
culture which arose in Europe and was
white through and through. The human sacri-
fices and all the rest are quite unproved and
quite out of keeping with all that we know of
ancient Irish, Welsh and Highland thought.
So Maire Mackay is wrong in the only mat-
ters of fact she touches upon, and where
facts are wrongly stated opinions are likely
to be of little enough value. I have never
said nor in any way suggested that Yeats did
not take himself seriously as above all things
an Irish writer; but I did say that he has
missed very much of the soul of Ireland and
that he has introduced a false atmosphere
into Irish work. More than this, he has
sought “strange, mysterious dulness” as his
friend to such an extent thht he is often
quite unintelligible. This has no parallel at
all in ancient Irish writing. There was
plenty of mystery there, but it was not the
mystery of obscurantism as practised by
Yeats. As for the comparison of Yeats and
Synge, the suggestion that the author of
“Deirdre” is an inferior is too absurd to be
worth discussing; but what Maire Mackay
chiefly misses is that James Stephens strikes
deep and serious notes, that there is a
poetry of the noblest kind revealed in his
conception of Irish hedgerows which run
into the infinite and eternal, and that in
pure imagination he soars into places where
Yeats can never follow him. Stephens is
not dependent on Yeats or Sharpe or any-
body else for a hearing—as a matter of
fact, he has more 'readers than they have;
and many of those readers know nothing of
Sharpe and are frankly, and not always un-
reasonably, bored with Yeats. I yield to no
one in my admiration for Yeats at his best;
the trouble is that he is not often at his
best.
D. M. W.
The Beneficence of Bloodshed
Creative Revolution, by Eden and Cedar
Paul (George Allen and Unwin), is sub-
titled “A Study in Communist Ergatocracy”
(which means Bolshevism), and exhibits
knowledge without wisdom. Regardless of
the fact that Englishman and Muscovite are,
racially and politically, poles apart, and
belonging to the queer variety of pacifists
whose hearts are oancered with hatred, E. and
C. Paul write hopefully of the glad day when
Bolshevism shall be established in Britain by
“an adequate revolutionary minority” work-
ing upon a friendly or indifferent “mass
psychology,” and passing “through dictator-
ship to ergatocracy.” Not that the revolu-
tionary socialists of Britain “desire a bloody
revolution. We should greatly prefer to
effect our sudden change by peaceful means.
8ut.... anyone who gets in the way of the
calving glacier or the somersaulting iceberg
is likely to be hurt. If there be bloodshed
it will be because the reactionaries, the
adherents of the old regime, the beneficiaries
of the capitalist State, will employ all the
forces of that State on behalf of what they
term law and order.” It is a pleasing pros#
pect, more especially as the authors hand-
somely admit that “large sections of the
lower middle class, large .sections even
of the urban proletariat, and perhaps a
majority of the rural proletariat” will cling
more or less stubbornly to the old order.
Moreover, after the glacier has finished calv-
ing there will be “a period of exceptional
hardship.” during which “all these recalci-
trant elements may have to be ‘governed’
somewhat strenuously by the dominant class-
conscious proletariat.” And the governing
instrument, one infers, will be a Red Army
on the Russian model. But the trouble with
Red Armies is that they have a habit of
dumping communistic ergatocrats on the
scrapheap. That happened in France dur-
ing the first Republic, and the process is
being repeated in Russia, as the invasion of
Poland indicates. Having discarded its fool-
committees of soldiers and blatherskites and
been disciplined by capable leaders, the Red
Army has become national and formidable
and conscious of its strength. Impelled by
nationalism, it has got out of control by the
politicians at Moscow —many of them Jews
like Trotsky—and is now a law unto itself.
In contempt of their instructions it marches
beyond the boundary-line $t which the inva-
sion w T as to cease, and the general who takes
Soldau pledges himself to return it to Ger-
many, although his civilian directors have
promised to give it back to the Poles. Pre-
sently, as in France, Budenny or some other
talented warrior will leap into the saddle
and make conquest his business, and Trotsky
and co. will line their pockets with the
remainder of the crown jewels and fade over
the distant horizon. And nothing will be
left of Bolshevism but the smell.
Poets’ Adjectives
A poet is known by his adjectives.
When St. Augustine defined beauty as
the shining splendor of truth he went one
better than John Keats, whose famous
“Beauty is truth, truth beauty,” is become
an aesthetic stereotype. But has the half-
truth no value in a poet’s- eyes? Let
pedants and purists say what they will, it
is by the deft and deliberate employment of
the adjectival half-truth that most poets
achieve half their fine, careless raptures. As
Iveats himself well knew. After he has
given us the most wonderful picture of
heaped-up fruits in all literature—the very
poetry of .still-life—he goes on: “These deli-
cates he heaped with glowing hand,” etc.
Glowing hand! Truth or no truth, there is
a striking beauty in that collocation. And
in this:—
Or if thy mistress some rich anger shows,
Emprison her soft hand, and let her rave.
Rich anger—beat it if you can. But
though, as often as not, beauty is
half-truth beauty, the poet would do
well to be on the right half of that
half-truth. The lyre-bird -is after all a
liar-bird: he merely “thieves the ballads
from his neighbors’ throats.” And so much
of our facile Australian poetrjr is mere
sound-echo. There must be some lurking (or
soaring) truth-vestige in the poet’s vocables
if he is to surprise us into swift admiration ;
else he might write his eclogues in Armenian
for all the gratulation he would excite in an
Australian reader. For instance, you may
safely compare the low-risen moon to a full-
bellied sail: the resemblance is there. But
only a gibbering idiot would remark in this
miraculous phenomenon any likeness to a
Chippendale chair, or a conclave off spouting
senators. When Keats describes her anger
as “rich” we are pleased—thinking, possibly,
of the carmine flush on her cheek. And we
feel that there is a certain justification for
Rupert Brooke’s employment of the word to
describe young fallen heroes in war: “Blow
out, you bugles, over the rich dead!” No
man, remembering the dead friends of a
campaign, would deny the subtle fitness of
that seemingly irrelevant adjective. You
may say : that it is not literally true ; but I
trust you will perceive that it is beautiful.
Now consider the following example from the
verses of a Melbourne poet:—
Lest.... I become
Too grateful for each crumb
Dropped from the sun-edged cutting of rich time—
Fragments of leisure for rhyme.
Here there is neither truth nor half-truth :
time is no more rich than the fourth dimen-
sion is poor. And who could resist the sus-
picion that the phrase struck the poet as
he was cutting a slice of cake for himself?
Of course, the more the poet inclines to
a dreary literalism the less - elbow-room he
gives himself for the display of the imagina-
tive adjective. And whatever it may do
for the novelist, the realistic method invari-
ably drags the poet to the verge of banality.
But, then, no poet has ever been a consistent
realist, thank God! Even Pope and his
craven crew of heroic-coupleteers, although
they were afraid of imagination, were none
the less sworn enemies of the plain word.
Fishes were “finny tribes,” women “the
fair,” girls “pensive nymphs,” a blush “a
conscious flame,” the sea “the azure main”
and so on. All this is about as far from
actuality as Helicon is from the Stock
Exchange. Still, the rhyme-jugglers of the
18th century took all sorts not to
invent anything on their own account. Pope
would have blushed (almost) to write either
an imaginative line or a natural one; either
a sonnet in the manner of Shakspeare or a
lyrical ballad in the style of Wordsworth.
It is easy to quote examples of what I am
rather clumsily calling the half-truth in
poetry, Take these: Joyous blague: “Red
rose on triumphant brier.” Amorous
descant: “My love is like a red, red rose.”
Ballad intensity: “The bride hath paced into
the hall, red as a rose is she.” Lyric charm :
“And he to her a hero is, and sweeter she
than primroses.” Decorative refrain (and
mostly nonsense at that) : “Three red roses
across the moon.”
ADRIAN LAWLOE.
When the Kaiser Lost Paris
G. Id. Perris, author of The Battle of the
Marne (Methuen, London), was special cor-
respondent of London Daily Chronicle
from 1914 to the Armistice. Writing now
with all the official material in his hands, he
considers that the Germans might have had
Paris, and that it was through a fatal mis-
take on their part that they did not take it.
The moral effect alone would have been worth
an Army Corps. Von Kluck claims in his
recently-published “March on Paris” that if
the German staff had not “ordered” him to
retreat he would have rolled up Joffre’s
armies and entered the capital afterwards.
The London writer’s view is that Moltke,
Kluck, Hausen and the rest of the German
strategists were definitely defeated by
quicker thinkers and better soldiers. The
invaders had been badly weakened by the
Belgian hold-up, and the further they went
afterwards the more their strength and their
morale evaporated. By the end of August
their one hope of anything resembling suc-
cess lay in a straightforward drive at the
capital. The Government and about quarter
of the inhabitants were getting ready to
leave; the art treasures were gone; a Gov-
ernor had been appointed. But the British
and most of the French armies were still
unbeaten and unbroken; and the rigid rules
of the military schoolmen of Berlin had laid
it down that no diversions might be attempted
in such circumstances. Nevertheless Von
Ivluck, who previous to entering Amiens and
crossing the Somme had been moving south-
west, suddenly changed his direction and hur-
ried south-east after the British. Joffre imme-
diately ordered Manoury to march direct on
Paris. And Von Ivluck had lost what Perris
estimates •to be the most important battle
in history! “How,” he asks, “came Ivluck,
one of the best of living German officers, to
perform this evolution across Manoury’s
front, and so reach a position that was
to prove fatal to the whole enterprise?” He
suggests several explanations—that the
British were considered negligible, that
Manoury was expected to-enter Paris and
stay there, and so forth. But he evidently
favors the view that it was a matter of per-
sonal ambition on the German general’s part
—a mad gamble, with a spectacular victory
on one side of the scale and the ruin of all
his country’s hopes on the other. That is
certainly the view the German high com-
mand took. “In the disastrous moment
when Kluck and Biilow turned in opposite
directions, the proudest war-school in the
world was beaten and humiliated by a stout
burgess of Rivesaltes.” Ivluck lost his com-
mand and never regained it; Moltke was
retired; and the' lesser offenders suffered
worse fates, as is the military way the world
over. This work is less elaborately techni-
cal than most war-books, and each imnort-
ant operation is illustrated by a map. There
is a particularly useful appendix.
THE VERSE CARPENTER.
A Satchel of Books
The Man with the Rubber Soles, by Sir
Alexander Bannerman (Ilodder and Stough-
ton.) A detective story with an ingenious
murder and a sufficiency of thrill. The set-
ting is English, and the period post-war. A
book to keep a jaded pitizen reading in bed
till 11, when he meant to put out the light
at 10.
The Vow of Silence, by Alice Perrin (Cas-
sell and Co.). This Anglo-Indian novel deals
intimately with the ways of missionaries, a
queer folk. There are also an elderly
scientist and his skittish young wife, who
falls in love with a soldier and mashes a
missionary. The missionary kills the hus-
band and obligingly goes insane, leaving the
lady to marry the soldier and live affluently
ever after. But there are better things in
the book than the absurd catastrophe sug-
gests ; it is fiction in the fair-to-middling
group.
Dupleix and Clive; the Beginnings of
Empire, Harry Dodwell (Methuen). A
scholarly sketch of a fascinating period of
history. The author makes it clear that sea-
power had more to do with the British con-
quests than is generally supposed. Even so,
the British were more than once On the brink
of disaster; had Dupleix or Dally been
solidly supported by the French Government
the tricolor would be waving at Delhi and
not the Union Jack. Some knowledge of
Indian events is presupposed—a drawback
from the general reader’s point of view.
It had to come. The Strangeness of JVoel
Carton, by William Caine (Herbert Jenkins,
London), is a novel written in the jargon
popularised by “Eve” of the London Tatlek.
Instead of “Eve’s” “drefful” and “ ’stronary,”
Noel, being a male of the species, goes on
this way :
I’ve got
A plot.
Poetry. Marvellous. Absolutely!
I’d write an ode to Josephine’s Gold Tooth for
tuppence only I’m so busy posting up my jolly little
old journal.
And who gave me the plot?
The answer is—Josephine. Last night she did it
at the S’rufuses. There’s poetical justice for you!
Even my justice is poetical, look ye ! What a Man-
o’-Letters we are, pardner, to be sure! Here (sic)
me giggle, pardner. Tee Hee! Tee Ilee !
Noel is a Society man who has married a
Jewess for money. He begins a novel, as a
prophylactic against the horror of life with
her; but apparently the mental strain im
volved in compiling the first couple of chap-
ters unseats his already tottering reason and
he becomes a homicidal maniac. The charac-
ter of the wife is well done. She deserved
what she got.
The Inky Way
A KIPPLE BY THE WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(Pounded out after reading Rudyard for one firelit
hour.)
There is naught to halt or hinder where the cliff-
path melts in pebbles,
When the red sun stares unwinking like an idol’s
ruby eye,
And the distant torrent babbles with its faint
and foolish trebles,
While the patient, sweating mule-train climbs
against the empty sky.
You may lash them till you’re weary, you may curse
them till you’re dry,
They will serve you like tame curates till they break
their hearts and die;
Tin gods thunder in hill stations; minions mutter on
the plains.
But it really doesn’t matter to the panting, plodding
trains.
Where white water falls in thunder and the bright-
eyed monkey chatters
(Doing something extra-special when a Kipling
passes by),
I had written other verses, but I do not think it
matters,
So I pluck the srarling banjo for the vulture
poised on high.
Smaller bards in distant countries, writing snugly by
the fire,
Will go fumbling to their bookshelves just to trace
my well-blazed track,
And each plodding, working poet who has got to ply
for hire
Will remove his battered headgear to the record-
breaking hack.
(Banjo obligato, waterfall effects and mule-bells—
if such things are still worn.)
N.S.W.


■
r J
r J
■s , '*:
K
IS
m
L v
■:
X
■*
H :
*A
: jgt
Mm
' <:
>■■■>■
r«a
H .r 1
IS!
i.' ; -
mmmm
wm
• L:
-
ll»;
«i
:
mm
HRS
■
•#** dK.? ■<* ; .*• ymm\ ' <f i>
■- -* '■ i w f 2T X §Sf i!
When you switch on a lamp in your home or
in your business premises, do you think of
that lamp as an achievement ?
The G.E. EDISON ELECTRIC
~ v
LAMP is an achievement.
It is the final result of the possibilities set in motion on
that day in 1879, when Thomas A. Edison successfully
completed a long series of experiments, and proved that
a carbon filament, resisting an electric current in a glass-
enclosed vacuum, would become incandescent, and have
a relatively greater power of illumination than any other
artificial light.
The G.E. EDISON LAMP, with its drawn tungsten
wire filament, and brilliant, responsive light, is that same
pioneer lamp developed to the highest ideal. Without
this wonderful light at our instant command, our scheme
of life would be vastly different from what it is to-day.
Be sure that all your lamps are marked " G.E. EDISON
35-45 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY
n 6 Queen Street, MELBOURNE
AGENTS
ADELAIDE, S.A.-Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd.,BB-oo Currie St.
BRISBANE,Q -The Engineering SupplyCc.of Australia Ltd.
(E.S.QA.), Comer Edward and Charlotte Streets.
TASMANIA—OIiver Si Oliver, Hobart and Launceston.'
PERTH, W.A. —Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Ltd.,"Mazda
Houiie,” 894 Hay Street.
NEW ZEALAND—The National Electrical and Engineering
Co. Ltd., Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin, Wellington.


car
The Man
Who Grasps a
RABBIT
gains some money.
Prices a<re not what
they were. But
they are still good.
For Top Market Values consign RABBIT,
FOX, KANGAROO and other skins:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.,
Sydney or Brisbane.
Salesmen only.
New Biscuits^
To claim that Joyce’s New
Biscuits are better in every
way than any other biscuits
made is a claim that requires
substantiation.
The overwhelming demand has been
no surprise to us—although it has
been immensely gratifying.
We think that our claims to have
produced something better than
existed before is best answered by
the fact that every order Ave fill
is a bigger one than the last.
These biscuits must incontestably
find welcome and support from all
who appreciate perfectly pure food
in a delightful shape.
s ~lxly CT ftczriel/es'
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
B
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & -
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
'THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
'
fir
111
am
KEEPS CONTENTS
Ice-Cold 72 hrs. Hot 24 hrs.
Showing
Bottle
de-mountei
Made in various
sizes and styles
from y 2 -pint up-.
Icy-Hot Bottles are
ideal for all climates
and arc made for
hard usage.
Extra Protection is
ensured by a coiled
spring and pad under
bottle which absorbs
jolts and jars and
makes the bottle
practically unbreak-
able.
Absolutely
Sanitary,
because the
spring - tight
neck - fittin
prevent
u«>
leakage of liquid into the outer
case.
The Name ICY-HOT clearly
stamped on the bottom of each
bottle is a guarantee of the
Standard of Perfection.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES.
Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
The ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.,
159 West Second Street,
fu.'/'iTinati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Icy-Hot Jar
for solid food
or ice-cream.
®Sißwl.l»N
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
'BH as;
BRAND
Containing about 95.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust-Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES- Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent;
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Buildings.
A PERFECT
SHAVE.
It’s British.
W: *
Christopher Johnson & Co.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Their Famous Full Hollow-Ground
Metropolitan Razor.
PRICE 10/0,
Of all Stores.
If unable to procure send Postal Note to their Agents.
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, 50 York Street, SYDNEY.
328 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
BALL
BEARINGS
The factory engineer who installs S.K.F.
Self-Aligning Ball Bearings throughout
his plant has done the utmost towards
reaching highest efficiency with maximum
economy, for S.K.F.’s save from 50% to
100% of their value yearly.
S.K.F. Ball Bearings are made from Swedish
Crucible Steel, are accurately finish'ed and uniformly
hard throughout.
S.K.F. Bearings do NOT become hot,
hence they prevent loss of power due to ex-
cessive friction. They assure smooth, free
running, saving of power, saving of belts and
supreme durability.
Specify S.K.F. Bearings (the World’s
best) for every part of your plant that
needs bearings.
SKF
BEEP
GARDNER,
W/ERN
& GO.,
Power and Light
Engineers.
MELBOURNE-
-384 City Road
Showrooms—
-369 Flinders Street
SYDNEY-
-226 Clarence Street
BRISBANE-
-367 Queen Street
,*ODO* 4
To the large army of sufferers afflicted with
Rheumatism, Gout, Calculosis, Migraine, Eczema,
Obesity and Acid Dyspepsia.
Take courage, for URODONAL dissolves uric acid as easily as
warm water dissolves sugar, and eliminates it without your being
aware of it.
Therefore, cast aside sticks and crutches, and straighten yourself as in the days
of youth and health. URODONAL will even permit you to eat meat and other
favorite dishes to your heart’s content. Salicylate, colchicum and iodides (by
means of which temporary relief is procured at the cost of disastrous after-effects)
are entirely superseded by URODONAL. Thanks to URODONAL, the obese
regain their normal proportions, the weary take on a new lease of life, and the
worn society woman regains and retains a clear and healthy complexion, through
the blood-purifying properties of this preparation. URODONAL is the great
discovery of the century, and is a boon to all; it is the secret of perpetual youth,
the means of salvation for the thousands of victims of uricaema.
PREPARED BY ETABEISSEMENTS CHATEEAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 10/9.
Can be obtained from all 7 Chemists and Druggists throughout Australasia, or from
CHATELAIN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 352 KENT STREET, SYDNEY, from
whom also can be obtained Free Booklet containing Medical Opinions. [1
The Judges of the High Court set a fine
example to Parliaments. They just hand in
their pronouncements for record, after briefly
stating their purport, and thus save a world
of boredom.
Twenty-five years of continuous service
with Geelong City Council has been reached
this month by A. L. Walter (town clerk)
and Jno. Dwyer (valuer, etc.). They
arrived together on a reform wave which
wiped out a number of the city hall staff
following the discovery of irregularities. In
the period they have seen elected every pre-
sent member either of council or of city
hall staff, the municipality grow from town
to city and from Sleepy Hollow to Pivot of
the Western District, and revenue and valu-
ation nearly doubled.
Another victim of the Northern climate,
E. C. Putt, went west recently at 84. A
London bobby long ago he served later for
nine years as warder at Dartmoor and Port-
land prisons, and there Michael Davitt was
a prisoner under his charge. He struck
Rockhampton in 1875, and later, with a
mate named Allen, explored the country
from the head of the Barron River to the
Falls, where the town of Kuranda now
stands. He took up a selection on the Bar-
ron in 1883 and lived there until the Reaper
called.
There is an encouraging clutter of ham-
mers in Ballarat, where eight returned
Diggers are beating metal into various
artistic-looking objects under the title of
“Decorative Metalcraft Co.” The workers
all pupils of the Technical Art classes
attached to the School of Mines —are pro-
ducing vases, jardinieres, electric-lamp
stands, toilet sets and other house equip-
ment. The artistic appearance and dura-
bility of the wares has appealed to whole-
sale firms in the various States, and they are
sanguine of finding a good market.
"YZ”: In Melbourne a big monopoly has
been engineered under the Government’s very
nose, the intention, as in all such cases,
being to profiteer to the last possible brown.
The direct result is that while butcher’s
meat has been .so high as to be inaccessible
to the poor, rabbits have risen to the occa-
sion, and are now as far removed from the
three-quid-a-week man as undercut steak is.
Meantime the pestilent rodent is turning in
huge profits to a syndicate that .seems to
have appropriated all sources of supply. I
meet one or two of the boodlers, and the
habitual expression is not that of men in
hourly expectation of being either hanged dr
perforated with lead.
Three or four years ago one of Mel-
bourne’s R.C. Church dignitaries talked of
“flapper” as a recent addition to the lan-
guage, and because he knew no better de-
rived it from a young fish flapping about—
a Ashling just introduced to the swim, so to
speak. It didn’t sound very flattering to
flapperdom, nor at all appropriate, but it
passed because a bishop or a dean had said
it. A recent London discussion disclosed the
fairly obvious fact that the “flapper” sug-
gested by girleens whose hair hangs down
their back is “ a young wild duck which can
scarcely fly.” That fills the bill. Did you
ever notice, by the way, that when a man is
in love it is for the girl to say whether he
shall think of her as a bird or a flower ?
Marks, M.H.R., uneasily anxious to do
good, secured Prime Minister Hughes's con-
sideration for an amendment providing that
friendly conferences between employees and
employers under the new law “should not
take place in courthouses or amid the para-
phernalia of courts.” In a small town the
courthouse is often vacant six days in the
week, whereas the schoolhouse is vacant only
two days at most, and the post office never.
A church isn’t a comfortable place for a
conference, and if the meeting is held at
the pub amid the paraphernalia of rum,
drinks are liable to break in on the proceed-
ings. Private houses are good enough save
that there may not be a big room in the
most desirable person’s house, and the gather-
ing may wake the baby, and interrupt the
cooking, and anger the housewife with the
dust on its boots. Affer all, there are both
employees and employers who can meet in
a courthouse without being reminded of their
previous convictions.
“The Old Doc” : What have the Melbourne
gasworkers and the sturdy trades unionists
in the friendly societies got to complain about
in the attitude of the employers towards
them? Didn’t they do the same thing to us
lodge surgeons who worked, often 24 hours
a day, for them for 40 years without an
increase in pay? They scoured Australia for
loyalist doctors when we went out for terms
that Judge Wasley said were fair and reason-
able. They even sent Falconer to England
for “scab” doctors, though they themselves
secured legislation to prevent such a thing
being done by employers in industries. They
victimised our leaders and spread the usual
yarns about them to their detriment. Now
that some of the lodges have given in to us,
the rest are trying to stop their supplies by
debarring them from getting their medicines
ab the F.S. dispensaries. What “gets” me is
that Labor members like support
these sturdy unionists in their capitalistic
practices.
“Mirza” from his laboratory:—
How is it that Australia has the highest dentist’s
bill in the world ? Some, basing their arguments
on the excellent teeth possessed by bone-gnawing
animals, attribute dental caries to the eating of
soft foods which do not provide resistance sufficient
to press the outer enamel cells close together for
the protection of the softer inner tissues. Others sug-
gest bacterial action. If that is correct, how do they
account for the remarkable preservation of decrepit
molars in the mummy? I have before me a skull
that shows numerous teeth in various states of
disrepair; yet the most careful observation has
failed to detect any advancement of the process of
decay during the past eight years. The role of the
carbohydrate, especially the sugars, has been stressed
universally; but this view gets little support from
scientific investigators. Personally, I think the
solvent action of fluids deserves consideration. Nor-
mal saliva has a protective and not a solvent action,
for surfaces constantly bathed by it never show signs
of caries. But the repeated solvent action of large
quantities of hot fluids, such as tea, appears to be
the most probable cause of the trouble; and Austra-
lia’s exceptional consumption of hot tea would also
explain the exceptional dentist’s bill.


□
Every woman knows that clean
bread cannot be made with dirty
hands, neither can a house be kept tidy without
constant attention. So it is with the human system.
Pure blood cannot be made from a foul stomach and
deranged digestion. The body needs the same care
and attention to keep it clean as the good housewife
knows is necessary to keep the home clean and in
order. It is not enough to keep clean on the outside,
but on the inside as well, and many people entirely
neglect themselves in this important matter, which
is so necessary to their general health. If people
would only bear this in mind much unnecessary
suffering could be avoided. For the purpose of clean-
sing the system Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are
unrivalled. They cleanse the stomach, purify the
blood, aid the digestion and assimilation of food, and
tone the entire system.
■■M
They Make One Feel Brighter ,


jfjose '
ofjfuscite
Begin to Wear
Them !
Hose of Luxite excel
because of specialized
methods of knitting.
For more than 16
gears these Hose have
amazed the public bp
their durability, arid
they are just as dur-
able to-day as ever,
besides being more
beautiful.
If your dealer is unable
to supply you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
50 York Street :: : SYDNEY.
WARATAH
rEMCINC
Wire
N»
re-5
Fencing Wire
Tighter Strain-Lower Cost-
Superior to Imported Wire
are just three advantages gained
by buying WARATAH WIRE. It
stays rigid and assures perma-
nency.
From the Ore to the Fence Aus-
tralian. — Get Booklet N. 19.
AUSTRAL NAIL CO. PTY. LTD.
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Nothing contributes
more to secure happy
temper in a child
than correct feeding.
Get the diet right, and baby
is as happy as the day is long.
Mellin’s Food is adapted for use with
the youngest babe, is light, easily
digested, safe. Besides, '‘Mellin’s”
is a no-worry food —hot water and
fresh cow's milk, and it’s ready.
f
Baby's Feeder Is important. Mellin’s Feeding
Bottle is unique; hygienic,efficient,easily cleaned.
A Sample Bottle of Mellin’s Food, with Handbook
for Mothers, "The Care of Infants.’ 1 sent Free.
Messrs. Collin & co. proprietary, Ltd,
Sydney
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
UNDER THE MICROSCOPE
■ m
the smoothest and most highly-polished metal looks rough,
full of little pin-points, tool marks and irregularities. This
invisible rough surface is the cause of FRICTION and WEAR.
MOTOR LUBRICANTS
fill these roughnesses as no other lubricant can, impart to
bearing surfaces a smooth, silky finish that effectively prevents
wear and heating and ensures economy.
FOLIAC MOTOR GRAPHITE is made from carefully-selected
finely-ground flake graphite, and is the basis of Foliac Motor
Lubricants.
FOLIAC MOTOR GRAPHITE.
FOLIAC GEAR GREASE.
FOLIAC HEAT-PROOF GREASE.
FOLIAC MOTOR CUP GREASE.
FOLIAC MOTOR JOINT COMPOUND.
In tins from lib. to 281 b.; Kegs, 561 b. and 1 121 b.
Get particulars from your garage.
Distributors for Australia:
S. SMITH & SONS (M.A.) LTD
Portland House, 30-32 Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
And at 109 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
m
YhuPm
fills lb.
Cannol
Clean; H
fLegula!
British
A«k for ONOTOlMir*^^
- iue.-.- 1 *~Beat for all Pens
task.
»wer
is the moving prin-
ciple of things —it
is that mysterious
force which enables
one to act upon, to
move or influence,
both people and
events. . . .
fl>-
n 5
%
ft*
r
a
To exercise this mystery of “power” you must be full o
nervous energy, alert and virile —in a word, you must be fit.
Fitness is a harmony of mind and body which accompanies a
state of constant general good health —good health comes with
regularity of habit.
The Kruschen Habit keeps one fit as nothing else does—-it
determines regularity of habit. With your system cleansed an
fortified by Kruschen Salts you will become a centre of health
and fitness, so of power —you will radiate your influence on a
around you. Get the habit —persevere with it be fit
AUSTRALIAN
PRICE
2/6
per bottle
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributii v
MESSRS. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289 CLARENCE STREE., SYDNE*
Sole Proprietors, E. Griffiths Hughes (Kruschen) Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade, Mancnegter. England
“Naming” : Arthur Streeton has no love
for the commercial cormorants who bought
the best work of struggling painters 20
years ago, and made big profits out of re-
sales. A dealer who had an old unsigned
Streeton sold it conditionally upon getting
the artist’s autograph. “A mere trifle,” said
Mr. Dealer cocksurely. “Streeton’s here now.
I know him. That’ll be quite . all right.”
It wasn’t. Streeton grimly replied that his
fee for the operation would be 20 guineas.
Victoria’s new power scheme from the
Morwell brown coal deposits is already bear-
ing fruit. A Melbourne crowd i.s getting
ready to build a big factory for making
shovels, spades and similar agricultural tools
at Spring Vale, just on the town side of
Dandenong, intending to tap the current as
it passes. Thirty houses are to be simul-
taneously put up to shelter the employees.
So far there is only one fly in this Morwell
power ointment. Anyone who thinks of
starting a factory in any of the little town-
ships along the route the power travels finds
the land speculator well dug-in.
“J.G.”: Has “Gadgett” (B. 8/8/’2O) ever
sampled an Australian axe-handle of seasoned
black wattle—the sort most valued for tan'
bark? I made one six or seven years ago,
and it has been in constant use ever since.
It has helped to split a few thousands of
fencing-posts and many tons of firewood, and
in the intervals has been used as woodheap
axe by all the family. There appears to be an
opening for a new industry here. Millions of
wattle-trees are stripped in Victoria alone
every year; these trees die, and nearly all
are allowed to roit away, whereas millions of
A 1 axe-handles could be made from them.
“Bloggs” : It was lately disclosed at Syd-
ney Central Police Court that a Castlereagh-
street betting-shop proprietor whose opera-
■ tions “ran to thousands of pounds” had five
telephones in his office. Most of the busi-
ness, it appeared, was done over these in
struments. The telephone branch of the
P.M.G.’s Department is particularly watch-
ful of country people who let neighbors use
their ’phones. If the offenders persist after
one warning, the service is withdrawn. But
the heads have no scruples, apparently, about
being accessories to the fracture of the State
laws, as they are when they wink at the
betting which is done over the ’phones in-
stalled by notorious starting-price shops. As
a matter of fact, the betting-shop problem
would be about three-parts solved if the
Post Office made up its mind to cut the
wages of sin and put the same ban on
illegal bookmaking that has been imposed on
Tatt.’s sweeps.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” on a disputed
parentage: — . , .
Lecturing before the Australian Historical Society
in Sydney Professor Ernest Scott, of Melbourne, gave
Henry Samuel Chapman the credit of being the
father of the ballot as used in Parliamentary elec-
tions in Australia. We old Victorians always looked
upon William Nicholson as the parent, and though
the newspapers frequently alluded to him as such,
Chapman never contradicted them. Chapman w;as a
barrister of the Middle Temple. In 1823 he went
to Canada and entered into business in Quebec, and
in 1833 started the Advertiser in Montreal, the
first daily newspaper in Canada. Returning to Eng-
land early in 1835 as the delegate of the Popular
party, he remained there until 1843, writing for maga-
zines and the “Encyclopedia Britannica,” and doing
other literary work. In 1843 he was appointed a
Maoriland Judge and sailed for Auckland; he held
office there for nine years. In 1852 he became Colonial
Secretary of Tasmania, but lost his job through
Governor Denison objecting to his anti-transportation
policy. Returning again to England, he refused a
West Indian Governorship, and arriving in Melbourne
in February, 1855, became a member of the Single
House (mixed). In that House on December 19 of
the same year William Nicholson carried a motion
in favor of the ballot by 33 to 25 votes. In the
minority were John O’Shanassy and John Fawkner.
In consequence of the vote the Haines Ministry
resigned and Nicholson was called upon to form a
Ministry, but failed. Haines continued in office until
March, 1857, when he was succeeded by O’Shanassy,
with Chapman as Attorney-General. By the way,
neither Nicholson nor Chapman was amongst the
men sent to the Leg. Assembly at the first elections
(1856) under Nicholson’s ballot system. Nicholson
had gone on a trip to England, where he was re-
ceived as “the Father of the Ballot in Australia.’’
Chapman was twice defeated in his attempt to enter
the Assembly. This much may be conceded to Pro-
fessor Scott: Nicholson’s idea was that the elector
should write the name of his favored candidate,
while Chapman suggested that the names of candi-
dates be printed, as they are now. Chapman, who
was not a success at the Bar or in the House, was
appointed an Acting-Judge in Victoria when Red-
mond Barry went to England on leave, and later he
returned to a judgeship in Maoriland. He died at
Wellington in 1882. His family went to England
and left one of the sons at school there. The others
were on the London returning to Australia when she
foundered in January, 1866.
THE CRY OF THE OMITTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Vic. provincial town clerk complained of the
little recognition the Federal Government had given
the municipalities for their war efforts. “How dif-
ferent,” he said, “from the Home Government,
which issued 0.8. E. awards generously!”
Full long have city and town and shire
In silence swallowed their rising ire
At sight of honors flung about
With lordly largesse—and them left out!
So one, prolocutor for the rest,
Begs most respectfully to suggest
This state of things, so long remiss,
Be met with appropriate action —
This:
A G.B.E. for the worthy mayor;
D.B.E. for his lady fair ;
A K.B.E. for that oligarch,
The indispensable council clerk ;
As douceur, too, for his Grand Vizier,
A C.B.E. for the engineer.
Then councillors should rewarded be
With the cordon bleu of the 0.8. E.
(Though little there’s doubt that most would
say
Their dig. demanded at least the K.)
Inspectors, typists, ’phone-boys, band,
They all well merit the Empire brand,
For they, too, worked. It is asked for them
The B.E. led by the prefix M.!
This done, the Empire could repose
Secure in the safety of one who knows
That, a bulwark against whate’er befall,
Each Local Government, big or small,
Contains as hostage to loyalty
A Chapter full of the 0.8. E.
VICTORIA.
COPABELLA.


ARE YOU A REXONA GIRL ?
The Rexona Club of Rexona Girls is now many thousands strong. All Rexona Girls are beautiful girls, for beauty and
Rexona go together. Why not be a Rexona Girl, too? Rexona and Rexona Soap ensure that clear, fresh skin and beautiful
hair which go so far to give any girl that natural charm and beauty which is her rightful heritage.
Children’s chief charm lies in their soft lovely skin. To keep that purity and delicacy of skin health use Rexona Skin
and Facial Soap. Washing with Rexona Soap 'first takes away all impurity and dirt, then softens the skin cells and acts as a tonic,
so that the elasticity is strengthened, and the result gives the soft bloom of health that we see in early youth. Rexona Soap prevents
roughness, beautifies complexions, soothes tender skins, protects from infection and diseases.
Nothing so promotes and maintains the purity of the complexion, hands and hair under all conditions as it does. It excels
in purity, delicacy and fragrance.
If you once use Rexona Soap you will be delighted with it, and wonder how you ever got along without it. Don’t delay,
join the Rexona Girls’ Club at once. Use only Rexona and Rexona Soap, and be happy and beautiful.
REXONA vSOAP Protects and Beautifies.
Rexona
Soap
for the
Toilet,
Nursery
and
Bath.
s
si
■ '
/
■
■
*
i a
*
\
Mmm
\ /
: ■ ■ ' :
:
? :
mmmmm
mmXmmikmmm&m.;:
§
• •
1
- - s
_u
Little Miss
ELY A BELL ,
a dear little
Rexona girl
(from a photo).
Will Not
Injure
the Most
Delicate
vSKin.
1/- per
Tablet.
Little Miss Elva Bell, who since the age of seven has been a prime favorite with playgoers of J. C. Williamson, Ltd., the
Tivoli, Fuller and Taits.
This dainty little miss is a true Rexona Girl, and writes us as follows:
I am sending you my photo, as I am a real Rexona Girl, having always used Rexona Soap
for both my skin and hair, and think it simply beautifuL Mamma and I both think there is
nothing like Rexona, and I will always recommend it to my friends.
Yours truly, ELVA BELL, 4 4 Winona/ 9 Dulwich St., Dulwich Hill.
REXONA iSOAP for HEALTH and BEAUTY.
mm
y/A
m
m
m
m
50%
m
m.
YA
m.
mm
m
CLEANSES
IOILET, BATI
& Nursery
HEALS ANC
Purifies*.
SKI
FACIAL
m
7m.
mm.
WA
m
m
m
m
Va.
REXONA SOAP STILL H-
Try the Rexona Remedies.
They consist of Rexona the Rapid
Healer, Rexona Skin and Facial Soap,
and Rexona “The Triangular Shav-
ing Stick.” They are all universal,
favorites with everyone who values a
clear, healthy skin. Rexona Ointment
is the skin remedy of the age, and
quickly heals all cuts, sores or skin
eruption of any kind. Rexona Soap is
a pure, medicated soap, and is un-
equalled for the toilet, nursery and
bath. Rexona Shaving Stick makes
shaving a pleasure; it lathers easily, is
economical, and keeps the skin in per-
fect condition. You try the Rexona
Remedies for yourself, and you will be
delighted with them.
-001in.0,, ‘N
b'oolhirvg, -
Healing
Hfinliseptic Ointment- _
H?<jrioes 0 /tbsolately X
& & Meals j Reliable
mow
iiTT*iHi]|ii:raTT^
A Reliable Remedy for all eruptions and irritations of the'
Skin, Eczema.Pimples.Sores. Chilblains. Chapped Hands.
'Sciatica. Itching or Bleeding Piles. Cuts. Burns Bruises. Scalds.
Bad Legs. Slings of Insects and all kinds of Inflammation
1/6
and
j i-


$
t
w
\
Use Cuticnra to Keep
Your Hair From Falling
How many times have barbers given
this advice to men who are losing
their hair because of dandruff and
scalp irritation. At night rub Cuti-
cura Ointment into the scalp. Next
morning shampoo with Cuticura Soap
and hot water. A clean, healthy
scalp means good hair.
For sample each address: “R. Towns &
Sydney, N. S. W.” Sold everywhere,
if®* Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
s
n-C\ S
Talc
Powder
>
111* —:
lint.
m
m
Williams
English Lilac
Talc Powder
\am
ic
Ml >£««=■'
NET WT 4-02
U>) &
Use Williams’ Talc.
Powder before or after
exposure to winds and
guard against the irre-
parable injury that
chapping sometimes
does to the skin.
Ask your chemist for
Williams’ Talc. Powders
—La Tosca Rose, Carna-
tion, Violet, English
Lilac, Matinee (new) and
Baby Talc, (practically
unscented. He should
have them.
If ’'nable to secure send
1/8 in stamps direct to
Williams, Box 98,
G.P.0., Sydney, for
full size
tin, Post
Free.
W. 21
Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Book now for Winter months.
Tariff from 15/- per day, or from
3Vz guineas per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
pi
c
Ita BEST VALUE
rut worlds
'sSAee&. 3^’
iSiHaa&hjaods
PARSONS
Marine and
Stationary
OIL ENGINES
Made in Sizes
from 7 h.p.
to 90 h.p.
KEROSENE
or
PETROL.
14-h.p. Marine Set.
ROBERT GRANT,
63 Pitt Street
SYDNEY.
SSgggfiHHlHS
All Hotels and
Licensed Stores
WHISKY
Mild, Mellow, Fully Matured
—a Liquor you’ll Appreciate
Bostock’s Shoe Dressing
THE SIGN OF
A GOOD SHINE
—the aristocrat among Shoe Polishes. PRESERVES the
leather, and gives a brilliant and lasting polish.
Now supplied in Champagne and Light and Dark Grey for the
fashionable colored footwear. In large Screw-top Bottles.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney.
Are You Weed Farming?
TREES AND SCRUB
ST. JOHN’S WORT
BLACKBERRIES
THISTLES FERNS
BOXTHORN, GORSE
COUCH, RAGWORT
FURZE SORREL
WEEDS of every kind
,r n
POISONJ
XEED, S
c Tree
ri.
1/
D «RtCT.OHS u f E
mOR LECCO 8* CO .
Manufactured in
Australia by
MELBOURNE
A. VICTOR LEGCO & CO.
- SYDNEY . BRISBANE
The great majority of Farmers, Orchardists, and
others to-day are allowing Thistles, Sorrel, Couch
Grass, and a hundred other pests to shade, choke,
and crowd out useful plants and grasses, allowing
them to absorb the soil moisture, rob the plant
food in the ground, increase the cost of every opera-
tion in the preparing of the land, in the seeding,
cultivating, harvesting, and marketing of their
crops. In short, they’re Weed Farming.
Blackberries, Boxthorn, St. John’s Wort, and Rag-
wort are in undisputed possession of thousands
of acres of valuable country, mostly because their
eradication is considered impossible or
too laborious.
But, is their extermination impossible?
Not a bit of it, Mr. Landholder! Granted
you have used every conceivable means in
vain—have you ever used
"VALLO” Weed, Scrub
and Tree Killer ?
Have you heard that in all parts of
Australia “Vallo” has effectively killed
every kind of Noxious Growth to which
it has been applied—Blackberries, Box-
thorn, St. John’s Wort all included ?
“Vallo” is the easiest, handiest, and most
economical Weed, Scrub, and Tree Killer
procurable. It’s in powder form, very
soluble, and is used as a spray.
Price*: 56 lbs. 70/-, 15 lbs. 21/3,
7 lbs. 10/6, 1 lb. 2/-, i lb. 1/3.
Postage: Within the State, 1 lb. 9d., b lb. 6d. extra.
Interstate, 1 lb. 1/2, b lb. Bd. extra.
“O’Smith”: A half-truck of pigs (13),
sent from Lismore (Vic.) to the Ballarat
market, averaged £lO Is. Gd. The baconers
by themselves averaged £9 Ss. Gd. Can this
be beaten i
“Whitehall”: Edward is the first Hano-
verian Prince of Wales gifted with the capa-
city to ride a horse over a fence with com-
fort to himself and the animal. The pre-
sent King has never hunted. Edward VII.
went out with the Royal Buckhounds once
or twice in his youth, and then abandoned
the sport for ever. Covert-shooting, cards
and racing were the placid sports that
attracted his Hebraic temperament. None
of the Georges hunted. In fact, to find a
royal exponent of this essentially kingly
sport the student has to go back to Charles
11. or earlier.
“W’gabba”: The most remarkable scene
I witnessed in Egypt was during the trouble
of 1916-17. It was in the Rue de Mousski,
and a surging, struggling mass of vociferous
Gyppos was yelling and jostling up the
narrow street. Scenting trouble, I dodged
into the sanctuary of a small shop, and saw
a mob of 300 flash past with the wind well
up. And behind them, and the cause of
all the scatter, were one Enzed officer with
a revolver and two Anzacs each armed with
an axe. They were thoroughly enjoying the
hunt—especially a mild young man from
Norwood (S.A.) whose front name was
Percy.
“U.P.” : When South Aus. decided to shut
down on barmaids there were 402 in the
State. That was 12 years ago, and although
numbers have been dropping out each year
there are still a few left who are entitled
to work the pump. The best hotels keenly
compete for these, and the result is they
are S. Aus.’s best-paid women workers, £4
a week, with board and lodging, being about
the minimum. Barmen have to be satisfied
with much less. Of course females will not
be entirely absent from the back of the bar
when the last of the 402 goes, for Bung is
still permitted to employ his wife, sister,
daughter or step-daughter to tend to his
thirsty clients.
“Stargazer”: “These men!” Melba has
been heard to cry, with more tragedy than
she could ever get into a grand-opera rede.
“The voices they ruin, the brutes!” The
great teacher discovers a gorgeous soprano,
sets to work on it, gets gorgeous results, and
plumes herself on the coming triumph, when
the possessor of the golden organ comes in
one morning and breaks the news. She is
about to be married. Then it is that Dame
Nellie utfers her howl of rage and pain. She
knows what it means—another Voice passed
out or bought in. “I’ve lost Pattis enotigh
for a banquet in this way,” laments Anne
Williams, Melbourne’s most successful
trainer of songbirds.
“Bill R.”: North-western (N.S.W.) .sheep-
men who in the recent starvation days
leased grass lands on the southern table-
lands paid dearly for their first experience of
snow country. The continuance of the
drought at home until late into the autumn
induced them to hang on to -the well-
verdured slopes of the Eucumbene and
Crackenback long after the Monaro men,
who knew the climate, had .shifted camp to
lower altitudes. Then when the approaching
winter finally forced a move the Western
men found their flocks cut off by snowdrifts
and ravines filled level with snow. One
squatter offered ss. a head for his own sheep
delivered on the plains below. A Monaro
drover took in a gang of snow shovellers,
cut a single sheep track for miles, follow-
ing the ridges, and brought out 5000.
While Victoria’s Board of Inquiry is in-
vestigating the how and \yhy of the recent
attempt to escape from Pentridge gaol it
might as well go the whole beast and discover
means of making the institution pay its way.
Looking over the place for a start, the Board
found that several prisoners have been there,
with brief intermissions, for over 30 years,
while one or two have made it their real
home for 40 years. There is nothing the
ordinary degenerate dislikes so much as
steady toil, and the fact that a number of
men have made this their permanent address
for a generation shows that Pentridge isn’t,
from their point of view, half unpleasant
enough. H.C.L. ought to utterly preclude
the notion of maintaining a permanent rest-
house at the public expense for these gentle-
men.
HEAVENLY BOREDOM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The told, calm saint sits all the day
Harping the golden hours away
And scorning cherubim at play.
Over the fence hot doors are slammed,
For there in Hell are sinners jammed,
Roaring the good cheer of the damned.
Brave highwaymen and buccaneers
Welcome as mates fat profiteers,
While devils race with boiling beers.
The Devil for his license quakes
As all his house with laughter shakes
And ribald song old Peter wakes....
The cold, calm saint looks sadly down;
He feels he is a whited clown
And hates his halo, harp and gown.
He knows his penny soul is white
Because at sin his heart took fright;
He lacked the nerve to kiss by night.
Within his wowser crayfish shell
He longed for things that earn men Hell.
But all in vain! He never “fell.”
And so aloft he sits and plays,
Strumming his endless roundelays,
Watching the damned with envious gaze.
Whene’er you see a falling star
Some saint has flung his halo tar
And dived to where the sinners are.
x.s.w.
KODAK.


Great Value Brings Great
Popularity.
Dodge Brothers Touring Car is a line ex-
ample of that thoroughness which is
always associated with their name.
Their purpose was to produce a car which
would be equally useful in all seasons.
No one thiug they have ever done lias so
correctly gauged the needs and tastes
of the Australian people.
The Touring Car has broken down seasonal
and sectional barriers, and been uni-
versally accepted as an all-year car.
How literally true this is may be judged by
the fact that the car is proportionately
just as popular in Tropical Countries
as in the regions of the far Northern and
• Southern Hemispheres.
Not a detail in the car was determined simply
by precedent or custom —the one thought
was to see how much Dodge Brothers
could give.
Its style is so attractive that frequently the
car sells itself solely by its appeal to
the eye.
The admiration inspired at first glance is
not disappointed upon closer scrutiny.
You will encounter many features which ex-
ceed your expectations—never one that
falls below them.
The details are all good—the seating arrange-
ment a model of convenience and com-
fort, the upholstery soft and substantial.
It is an easily driven car, and despite its
beauty is solid, as are all cars which
Dodge Brothers produce.
It is essentially masculine in its convenience,
and essentially feminine in its comfort
and ease of handling.
They have never built a. car which appealed
more strongly to every member of the
household.
Ordinary good practice has not been good
enough; in every detail you will find
the exceptional. These hidden qualities
which are the real source of responsive-
ness and flexibility, will show themselves
before you have been at the wheel five
minutes.
The engine seems like a thing of life,
abounding in vitality—trigger-swift in the
gliding get-away and splendidly free
from the slightest jerk or jump or jolt.
There is a marked absence of vibration in
the car notwithstanding the unusual
power of the engine.
The specifications indicate why the car is so
splendidly responsive, so swift in get-
ting into action, so comfortable, so
silent, so steady, and they are also
worthy of being carefully studied be-
cause they evidence how high was the
standard the manufacturers set for
themselves.
Cross-country touring brings no sense of
weariness or fatigue. The car has un-
usual roominess. The depth and soft-
ness of the real leather upholstery, tV>
buoyancy of the springs and the design
of the seats, together with the quiet run-
ning of the powerful engine, make one
unmindful of distance.
The car might have beauty without comfort,
or comfort without either beauty or
economy—but when owners find all
three combined in a high degree it is
easy to understand their extraordinary
enthusiasm. The maintenance cost is a
source of real satisfaction to the owner.
The consumption of petrol is light and
the tyre expense is reasonable, because
the size of the tyres is right for the
weight of the car.
On almost every road in the country the
sturdiness, steadiness and unusual com-
fort of the car has been fully demon-
strated. Steep hills, rough, roads or
mud roads have held no terror for it.
It has done everything it has been asked
to do, and many things that have been
called remarkable.
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
The success of the car has been due in
large part to public confidence in the
men who build it.
People are convinced that Dodge
Brothers’ sole purpose is to make the
car worthy of their name.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
* . The tyre mileage is unusually high.
Dodge Brothers
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland) Ltd.;
brlbiiaxie.
Standardised Motors, Limited
Sydney.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
Cheney Motor Co tJ Ltd,
Adelaide.
safeguard you* HEALTH
0T J.Collis Browne's
CWorodyw
The Original and Only Genuine.
the best medicine for
Coughs, Cofcls, Asthma,
ami in tlic Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVEIUSH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE. RHEUMATISM.
UTS I,IKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
SOLD IN BOTTLES.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3 and 3/-.
Made in England.
wmm
a
The ‘PLUM’
is the
Razor for Me!”
This rioted Razor is no new invention —
thousands are sold annually. The “Plum”
requires but little stropping, as its finely-
tempered edge keeps keen against the
stiffest beard, and gives just that smooth,
velvety shave which every man appreci-
ates.
Price 12/6, post free.
We keep it in order for two years free of
charge.
SAFETY RAZORS—
“Army and Navy” Safety Razors,
with Strop 12/6
Ditto, in Nickel Case (flat), suitable for
travelling 15/6
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle 12/6
Pair in Double Case 25/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle 15/6
Pair in Double Case 30/-
(This line makes a handsome present.)
“Plum” Strops, each. . 7/6 and 10/6
“Plum” Strop Dressing 1/2
All 'the above Post Free.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
Queensland
c allin&s
To the Tourist, Scientist, Investor
and, with a hundred voices from her millions
of acres, to the Man in search of Land.
Free Information on all subjects
available at once on receipt of this coupon.
Name— ,
Address
Queensland Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Brisbane.
GENUINE PICKERING
GOVERNORS. All Types,
fin. to 4 inches.
Intercolonial
Boring Co. Ltd.
BRISBANE,
Engineers’ Merchants, Manufacturers.
Engineering Requisites of all Descriptions.
Hercules Windmills Hercules Oil Engines Hercules Boring Plants
1.8. C. Horizontal Steam Engines 1.8. C. Walking Beam Pumping Plants
1.8. C. Brass Artesian & Well-Pump Cylinders 1.8. C. Centrifugal Pumps
1.8. C. Power Working Heads 1.8. C. Syphon Windmill Pumps
Sheep arid Cattle Troughing, Cast Iron and Wrought Steel
Pulleys, Circular Saw Benches and Spindles, Crab Winches,
London Pattern Blocks, etc., etc.
Offices and Warehouses—4lB-424 and 450-460 Ann Street,
Brisbane. W orks—Y eerongpilly.
(Trams pass near by.)
a


A. Saunders’ Pearl and Aquamarine Cluster
Bar Brooch, 9ct. Gold, 12/6.
A. Saunders’ Aquamarine loot. Gold Brooch,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Bar Brooch, set Pearl,
£2/10/-
\
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, ISct. Gold,
£.15.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, ISct. Gold,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Trefoil Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £l2/10/-
A.. Saunders’ Fine
Diamond Kins?,
18ct. Gold,
£B/15/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£25.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18et. Gold,
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Wristlet Watch, 30/-,
40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-, 80/-
Gold filled, £4/10/-, £5.
A. Saunters’ fine
Diamond Necklet,
loct. Gold,
£5/10/-
%
■A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold
Links, 20/-, 25/-,
30/-. 15ct. Gold, 40/-
50/-
A. Saunders’
Fine Diamond
Scarf Pin, 15ct.
Gold, £3.
A. Saunders’ Silver Hunting Keyless Lever,
Jewelled Escapement, £3. Extra Jewelled,
£4/10/-. Guaranteed, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Fine
Diamond King,
18ct. Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’
Lady’s Signet Ring,
9ct. Gold, 15/-;
15ct, 25/-
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s Oct. Gold
Signet Ring, 20/-
16ct., £2.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s Fine Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £2O.
A Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Nellie Stewart Secret Snap and Joint
Bracelet, £2/10/-; lighter, 40/-, 30/-; heavier, £3.
15ct. Gold, £4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-. 15ct. Gold,
£3/10/-, £3.
A. Saunders’ fine
Diamond Necklet,
loot. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Set. Gold
Links, daintily en-
A. Saunders’
Diamond and
Pearl Scarf
Pin. loct. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller,
805-815 Georg'e Street (opp. Railway Station), Sydney
A. Saunders’ Aquamarine or Yellow Sapphire
Bar Brooch, loct. Gold, £2.
A, Saunders’ Pearl and Aquamarine Bar
Brooch, 9ct. Gold, 10/6.
A. Saunders’ Pearl Set Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£2/15/-
A. Saunders’
Diamond Cluster
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring,
18ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct., Gold,
£25.
A. Saunders’
Diamond Boat-
shape Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ Pine
Diamond Ring,
18et. Gold,
£5/10/-
Saunders’ Lady’s Wristlet Watch, 35/-, 30/-,
40/-. Silver, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-.
9ct. Gold, £4/10/-
<7
I
nr
$
(Ti
xz
1
A2S
At Work or At Play
Indoors or out of doors —-
Milkmaid Coffee & Milk
is the ideal beverage at
all times.
With a tin of Milkmaid
Coffee & Milk and
hot water only you can
enjoy perfect, creamy
coffee at any moment.
For yuurnext picnic take
Milkmaid Coif ee& Milk.
Drink it, too, at break-
fast, lunch or supper.
You will be delighted.
Remember ! no sugar—no milk re-
quired with Milkmaid Coffee & Milk.
Just hot water. It’s so simple !
MILKMAID
Coffee & Milk
Tj
'4\
' / 5


TO
WHE E2V
OLD ACE
r?
/
&
m
Sd
S 5
§§
o
<sr
£
u
■&
<o^
&s>
£
&
N
BRONCHITI
Requires careful atten-
tion. If neglected in the
earlier stages it may
become chronic and even
prove fatal.
Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is the medicine
for this disease.
When given regularly
it relieves the cough-
eases the pain-removes
the difficulty in breath-
ing-produces a free and
easy expectoration, thus
reducing inflamation.
Old people and those
with wefik lungs should
be careful of this disease.
Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is good for
all kinds of bronchial
coughs.
It strengthens the
throat, lungs and bron-
chial tubes. Makes
them less susceptible to
climatic changes.
When Chamberlain s
Cough Remedy is used
bronchitis will not be-
come chronic -- you can
ward off an attack.
Take no chances--get
a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy to-day.
You will then be pre-
pared for bronchitis or
any other winter ailment
that may attack your
family.
tyow'a fen Jfenhfe. .
/?KJ [LAD MW
> COUCH REMEDY &
"Gi?/INNY *CH4HB£RW!N
(COPYRIGHTED)
I*l
'm
0
&■
m
m
V
r=
£
'Art
!ns£
Aim
Shiris
typify good taste in style, coupled with
comfort. Perfect in fit and make, they
are also characterised by the snap of
the finest patterns and colors.
Obtainable at all Leading Shirt Departments.
Give Thistle Pyjamas a Trial.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS LTD.
Makers-BRISBANE
See fhis brand
mm
m
%
m
-z
%
Maw#
and SYDNEY.
A.S. 23
on each shirt.
z
CODES: Bentley’s and Lieber’s.
MANUFACTURERS
AND EXPORTERS
of
“DUTCH PROCESS”
COCOA, CHOCO-
LATE NEATWORK
& COCOA BUTTER.
SVS
MILLS
*t
/
MILLS:
MELBOURNE SOUTH.
OFFICE: 131 Queen’s
Bridge Street,
MELBOURNE SOUTH,
Victoria.
Uocoa supplied in bulk, or
packed for Merchants under
their own label.
ONLY WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTING MERCHANTS AND MANUFACTURERS SUPPLIED.
COCOA MANUFACTURED BY AUSTRALIANS FOR AUSTRALIANS.
The Tragedy of Billy Butty.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FIFTY years ago Billy Butty was a
solid, living corporeality, standing five
feet seven with a 44-inch chest, and a
working capacity capable of cutting a buez
Canal. There are still old Clarence Ri'ei
men who can remember him, among them
probably the present Judge Cohen, of Sydney,
who went to school with me at Ulmarra in the
'sixties. . ,
Billy had left the old country with one
fixed idea which possessed and obsessed him.
He wanted to make a lot of money and then
go home and empty it out on the table before
his old people, for the joy of contemplating
their astonishment. Towards that objective
he worked almost day and night for 20
years. As the money grew its importance
grew. It never left lnm. lie carried it
to his work and “planted” it until he was
going home. Fortunately for his schemes
he was a man . who had little to say to
anybody. Ever in his thoughts were only
“dad” and “mam” and some Yorkshire girl
who was believed, with great confidence, t 6
be patiently waiting with a great soul-
yearning for Billy’s return.
The momentous time came when lie was
to start for Yorkshire to empty out his 20
years’ glorious savings. It is a solemn fact
that he left Ulmarra with 700 sovereigns
in a carpet-bag on board the Agnes Irving,
captain Henry Creer, bound for Yorkshire.
He knew nothing about bank drafts, letters
of credit, or any other financial banners with
a strange device; he merely saw ahead his
dad and his mam and the girl, all figura-
tively falling dead over the spectacle of 700
sovereigns suddenly spread on the table be-
fore them !
On the way down Billy confided part at
least of his wonderful plan to a steward ;
and one less unsophisticated than Billy will
not be surprised to know that when the
Agnes Irving arrived at the old wharf in
Darling Harbor Billy’s bag and the 700
sovereigns were nowhere to be found.
For three weeks afterwards Billy wan-
dered about Sydney bailing up people and
asking them if they had seen his carpet-bag.
Then his lunacy became so pronounced that
he was mercifully removed to Tarbon Creek
and died there.
* * * *
A lapse of 25 years, and a man with the
, intellectual faculties of a wombat was ramb-
ling among the rocks at the head of Mos-
man's Bay. There had been heavy rains
which had cut channels in the surface, and
at one spot the wombat man saw what
looked like the corner of an iron box pro-
jecting under a shelving rock. He dug it
out, and the thing was so rusted that it fell
apart revealing 650 sovereigns.
The man with the wombat brains, instead
of keeping his find to himself, went away
and informed the police. Two highly-intelli-
gent men wearing No. 11 boots rambled
over to the spot, left large tracks upon the
sands of time, made serious notes upon the
locality, then went back and, it may be pre-
sumed, divided the sovereigns between them.
At any rate, the wombat man never heard
any more about those sovereigns, which was
his just reward.
* * * *
In 1895 I was sent out by the Nelson
Government of Queensland as a Special Com-
missioner to the Aborigines to inquire into
their numbers and condition, and specially
to bring about a friendship between the
whites-and blacks in the Cape York Penin-
sula, where there had been a very unhappy
state of affairs for many years.
When out on the head of the Pascoe
River, accompanied by a wild black from
the Coen and one from the Normanby River,
I was suddenly hailed by an excited gin
waving a man’s white shirt from the top
of a block of granite. The Norinanby River
black promptly said, “Coco-yimmajer!”—a
woman this, speaking the Coco-yjmmajer
dialect of Cooktown. Suspecting a~ trap, I
sent him to interview the lady, who told him
a white man was lying not far off with a
spear through him.
On reaching the prospector’s primitive
camp, we found a man lying on his side
on a sheet of bark groaning and apparently
in great pain, a spear driven through his
right lung from the back and projecting
about six inches in front beside the right
nipple. The gin sat on an upturned bucket
and the two blacks stood on the opposite
side of the wounded man. I looked at them,
and they shook their heads and simply said
“Beeanee”—death !
Knowing that the withdrawal of the spear
would be a warrant of death that would be
very speedily executed, and that he was
doomed in any case, I tojd him his position,
and, taking out my notebook, suggested that
he might have some messages that he would
like me to deliver, and some disposition to
make of his belongings.
The man became very agitated. “If I
die,” he said, “it is Hell for me.” I tried
to suggest that he might have chances of
a more temperate climate. “No,” he said,
“there is no hope for me. For 30 years I
have been haunted by”—he paused—“by
something I did. It was bad enough to spoil
my life. There is no hope—no hope!”
I thought the man might be the better
for telling somebody the story, and I encour-
aged him to do it. He was more than will-
ing—he grasped at the chance of making
of me a sort of confessor.
The prospector, lying there with the spear
through him and Azrael hovering over his
head, was the steward who on the Agnes
Irving 30 years before had stolen Billy
Butty’s 700 sovereigns!
Twice in Pitt-street Billy had asked him
if he had seen the bag. At this he and the
other steward implicated had become scared,
and after taking 50 sovereigns, had put the
650 in an iron box, gone over one night to
the head of Mosman’s Bay and buried it
beside a rock. Then the curse had got to
work. On the way back an Illawarra
steamer had run into them, and his mate
had been drowned. He himself had at first
searched furtively, but could never find the
box. He still did not know that the wombat
man had found it vears ago.
The confession being ejided, one of the
blacks sat down beside him, put a foot
against his back and pulled out the spear
In five minutes he was dead.
ARCHIE MESTON.


Citroen
a
a
CC*
1
V ■
on electrically-driven tube-mill
by Messrs. Ernest Newell &
Co., Ltd., for South African
Gold Mine, 130 h.p.; Single
Ratio 17-1; Ring-shaped Wheel
in Halves; Double Herringbone
Teeth ; Pinion Solid with Shaft.
Large numbers of similar gears
have been supplied.
Citroen Gears on 1200-h.p. Electrical Haulage, supplied for an Indian Mine
by Messrs. Sandycroft, Ltd. The large Citroen Wheel is built up in five
parts (centre in halyes and rim in three segments), and weighs 9 tons.
British'Australian
ENGINEERING CO. Ltd.,
National Mutual Buildings, Corner Collins & Queen Streets, MELBOURNE.
Box 1303 G.P.0., Melbourne. ’Phone, Central 4031.
N.S.W. Agents—Austral Engineering Supply Co., Kent Street, Sydney.
S.A. Agents—Parsons & Robertson, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
* s
r
m
iVOttg]
/U ,/
Wi
I*o
y.
l J!gg
X
V\V<s
ilm*
tj-j-SJ
"VrEiJ:
Longue
GOOD TASTES FOR GOOD TIMES
That satisfying home-made taste that goes right to that
hungry spot and makes you feel fine—belongs wholly
and solely to sandwiches of —
“REX” CAMP PIE
Cut thinly and placed between slices of bread, it gives
you just the meal healthy appetites revel in.
“Rex” Camp Pie is made from the choicest cuts of
prime meat, flavored and cooked by the expert “ Rex”
chefs, —then packed in a delectable jelly.
Other “Rex” all meat delicacies you should
have are “Rex” Ham Pate and “Rex” Veal and
Tongue Pate, the sandwich spreads, with the
flavor that you never tire of.
Sold everywhere. Insist on “Rex.”
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon
J. 2994
Business, Robbery, etc.
“A.J.S.”: Henare knew something about
profiteering even in pre-pakeha days. Cap-
tain Cook, in his journal, gives several in-
stances of Brown Brother’s exploits in this
direction, and the manner in which his
(Cook’s) men retaliated. The penalties
were drastic and sudden, the offender being
usually brought up in his flight by a charge
of shot. On one occasion, relates the cap-
tain, a midshipman had recourse to a “whim-
sical expedient” upon being cheated. Tak-
ing a fishing-line, he threw the lead with so
much dexterity that “the hook caught the
Indian who had imposed upon him by the
buttocks, when, the line breaking, the hook
remained there.” Dealing effectually with
the profiteer is a lost art in these degenerate
modern days. P.S. —But don’t ask me what
eventually happened to Captain Cook.
“Forester”: While Australia strips out
her own wattles and does not bother about
replacing them, but imports bark from S.
Africa, she has a material which could do
all her tanning and a heap more and which,
with decent care, would always be available,
because it can be obtained without destroying
the source. Russell Grimwade, of the Felton-
Grimwade firm, told the Vic. Forest League
recently that the kino, or gum, of the
Westralian Eucalyptus calopliylla could be
made to yield enough tannin to supply all
Australia’s present needs ten times over. It
is, too, the one tanning material which can
be obtained without destroying the tree that
gives it. There is one objection which has
kept it back so far, that it gives too much
color to the articles tanned. Speaking as a
chemist, Grimwade believed that this defect
could be overcome, but it would take re-
search. It is a job for the Forests’ Products
Laboratory, which the Institute of Science
and Industry has been for some time strug-
gling to establish in co-operation with the
States. But there has been such a pressing
need for money to increase politicians’ sal-
aries and provide jobs for hangers-on that
so far no cash has been available.
“Senex”: In the Atherton (N.Q.) scrubs
there are dozens of unnamed timbers—hard
woods, soft and medium—which should
surely be of commercial value. If this were
the U.S.A., all that timber wouldn’t go up
in smoke, I’ll bet my boots. Take bull-oak,
for example. Every selection has scores
of trees, and until the last two years there
was no sale for it. I suppose a conservative
estimate of the quantity wasted by fire
• and rot this century would be 20,000,000
s.f. There is a vast amount of it stil 1 }
available, fortunately, but that can’t make up
for the awful waste of what has only lately
been recognised as the most useful all-round
building timber there is. Immensely strong,
medium heavy, soft wood, easy to work,
tough and everlasting when kept off the
ground, it is in appearance very similar
when polished to its first cousin, silky-oak.
I was talking the other day to one of the
oldest sawmill proprietors on the Tableland,
and he told me of the difficulty he had in
trying to introduce maple, now admitted to
be one of the world's very best woods, to the
Sydney market. It’s hardly credible, and
doesn’t say much for the intelligence of the
Sydney market.
“Poor Native” (from the Paibuna,
Papua):—
Master, me been hearem talk dat plenty white
man he wanta makem kerosene for engine alonga
sago belonga me fellar. No good dat man he do
like dat. No got plenty sago alonga Paibuna ; little
bit one place, little bit ’nother place alia same.
S’pose dat sago he finish altogether man he die;
lie no got garden- alia same ’nother fellar. S’pose
dat man he wanta make kerosene more better he
cuttem down nipa; plenty nipa he stop. Master,
more better you talk alonga great big fellar Guv’-
inent Billy Hughes alia same; den Paibuna man he
like too much alonga you. New Guinea he picca-
ninny belonga Australia; dat what for Australia he
got to look out good alonga something belonga New
Guinea man.
“Orchardist”: Sydney business methods
are rapidly becoming similar to those of
China, where all in any way connected with
a money transaction get “squeeze.” For no
reason in particular, my mind lobs on a late
proposal that failed. Never were highly-
cultivated orchards in N. S. Wales over-
run with insect pests as at present, and
that in spite of spraying and fumigating. A
possible cause is the lack of the important
plant-food, sulphate of potash, which the
Hun provided for us before the war, and
no one has provided since. The Colonial
Sugar Co. saw its way to manufacture this
chemical from a by-product at Pyrmont.
But the plan of the proposed works, when
submitted to the municipal authority, failed
to please; and the project was murdered in
embryo. So a local key-industry was
squashed, and the agriculturist has to. wait
till the Hun gets to work again.
* * * *
Ivat I 1 ish’ : Black Brother in Papua is
keeping pace with the times. The other
day some Mawatta men returned home from
work with a beche-de-mer baron of Torres
Strait. . After being paid off they formed a
deputation to wait on the magistrate. The
spokesmgn addressed Solomon thus: ‘‘Gentle-
man, we want to spik you bout wagis. We
not got proper wagis. W e go lqng shop
long Thursday Island to buy sometliink.
Mau belong shop lie chargem too much. We
no can buj. Vv hat for? Man belong shop
he say VVe payem union wagis that what
ioi. sometliink lie too dear. V e wantem
union wagis, please. Asked what lie con-
sidered union wagis, the spokesman said two
P oa P month, and asked the Law to .speak
to that elieet. The Law promised to consider
the matter, and the deputation withdrew.
* * * *
“W.C.M.”: Old Bob Bailey was known as
the most expert duffer'in the district, but he
was never caught. When a new constable
came to the place, he and his mate made up
their minds to get Bailey. They camped out
in the scrub, waiting for the old man to pass
in the morning. When Bailey did pass, he saw
the two John Hops asleep. “It’s too earlv
to wake you ’s up yet,” he said, and
went on. When the Hops woke up they
saw Bailey’s tracks and followed. It was
a long chase, but at last Bailey was rounded
up, with a bag of meat on his saddle, just
on the edge of a sandy creek. “Caught you
this time, have we, Bailey?” “Yes, ser-
geant,” drawled Bailey. “What’s in the
bag, Bailey?” “Meat, sergeant.” “Turn it
out, Bailey.” Bailey tipped the bag out into
the sand, from which the Johns picked it,
and carried it up to a dam half a mile
away. When it was cleaned. “Why, this is
wallaby, Bailey!” “Yes, sergeant; I can’t
afford meat, sergeant—l’m too poor.” Had
they gone half a mile further, they would
have found a four-year-old steer hung in a
tree. But they didn’t, and Bailey .still con-
tinues to duff cattle.
* # #
.
Onlooker, from San Francisco:
There is a fine Australian jam trade to be done in
America. The U.S.A. cannot compete, taking both
quality and price into account. Sugar is now 100
per cent, dearer here than in Australia, and there
is no likelihood of the price coming down. The
sources of supply are Hawaii and Cuba. The
Hawaiian end of the plank is held by the Spreckels ;
the Cuban end, for this season at least, is reputed
to be held by J. Bull, Esq., who, ’tis said, bought;
the whole crop at a few cents a pound. The Henry
Jones Co., of Tasmania, has erected a great factory
at Oakland. It has a fine situation, with railway
facilities right into the works. The machinery
is all there ready to instal, but the sugar situation
has spoiled the outlook for local boiling. At present
they are confining their attention to canning apri-
cots. The opinion of local men is that the jam end
will not operate till sugar falls here or advances 50
per cent, in Australia.
The small tin is the best seller in this market,
People here live principally in small apartments, buy
in a small way, and prefer small packages. The
weight of the nett contents of the tin must be
placed on the label in pounds and ounces. For
example, our 270 z. tins have to be labelled lib.
lioz. Labels must be attractive and artistic, and
the jam of high quality. A rigid inspection is made,
and if one case is wrong the whole shipment is
condemned. As berries are bad carriers it pays to
make separate shipments of this product. An inves-
tigation I made of the facts re rejection revealed
that berries have been the cause nearly every time,
The people of America are not yet half-educated
to the use of jam. It would pay the jam interests
in Australia to finance a large, nation-wide publicity
campaign. There is a splendid field to work on.
While in the army, the American learned to eat
jam, and liked it. Every soldier would be a booster,
with the present rate of exchange and the sugar
situation as it is, this should prove a golden oppor-
tunity to establish an advantageous trade, if the
Australian will be honest and send over only good
stu fl
. * , „ * *
. • 1 saw 'something novel recently
in * b house-building. Out Junee
wa f. il we "‘to-do wheat cocky is
. himself a concrete house, and for
reinforcing has bought scrap-iron from all
T™. district:. I saw three o doubie-
uii°w ploughs, half a dozen sulky axles,
f? ts , of bam>w , s - old P ar * s of reapers and
£P ld< lif ’ ka .'" ia^es » otc., etc., all used up in
| e -s than a day. Of course the ploughs and
,! a l 1 | To '\f were dismantled. W hen that house
will not be many left standing,
, n tb ® Yanko irrigation area another unique
P ls m course erection, It is owned
b ? t Ma ? ob ’ ° f Mayob aad ? ldman ’ « nd «m-
-°f H“ ber P n , ginally ' ntended for
.T+ 01 v lt- ,VL LmL’i-
worild have stood salt water, no doubt, but I
think white-ants will soon beat it.
; (IVT >• t T i i ,* , ,
* ( ' ,' /* e 1 bave the husband
vomlww if 1 l° d , °, U *i le
~ k ‘ lvema , (B. o/8/ -9) , but ostensibly
b f W: ! s a P ur Y ayor °|. collar-studs. I pur-
cdlased a magnificent diamond’ stud from bun
for sixpence. Having broken the ice he
became confidential and hinted that he was
agent for some other necessities which he
termed “prophylactics.” So equipped, he
affirmed, a gentleman (he was very emphatic
about the “gentleman”) could jazz ill safety,
Oh, no! he did not traffic in preventives of
childbirth; he was merely doing his humble
best to keep Lotharios from pain and romau-
tic ladies from embarrassment. I showed him
where the nearest “No children” flats were- -
such places being the natural trading grounds
of these philanthropists.
THE FOOD PATROL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I lie awake these long, dark nights,
And when all dwellers else are still,
Nor motor horn nor cycle frights
The solemn hour, from distant hill
And far-off hollow of the town
There comes the drip of hoofs, the grind
Of iron wheels that rumble down —
A weird procession of the blind.
I hear a clatter, like the flow
Of some great river on its rocks.
Where strings of wheezing waggons go,
With cabbages and garden stocks.
I hear the noise the big team makes
Where some o’erburdened carriage clucks,
The eldritch shriek of friction brakes,
The rumble of the mutton-trucks.
The deep, wide carts are piled with fruit
And fat potatoes for the cooks.
Half-bullocks, dead, but mute,
Are shrilly singing on their hooks.
This is the funeral song of meat.
Incessant flows the country’s dole,
A hundred miles of things to eat,
The night march of the food patrol.
And, as I lie, to me it seems
Here works inevitable law.
In dim half-consciousness of dreams
Into the city’s gaping maw
1 see the waggons tip their sheep,
Their vegetables, beef and bread.
Eo, while the little people sleep
Gargantua is being fed!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


FITTINGS
BUILD THE PERFECT BICYCLE
TRADEMARKS
THOROUGHLY
BRITISH.
W HEN the experienced cycle rider sees the
famous “ Three piled rifles ” trade mark of
the B.S.A. Fittings, he knows that at the back
of that particular bicycle are the experience and skill
of years in the production of high-grade cycles.
The choice of a Bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings
is a matter of business, the economy, reliability and
freedom from trouble making the purchase of B.S.A.
a sound investment which will never be regretted.
Regular B.S.A. Riders say there is nothing to equal
the satisfaction of the service which underlies the
transfer of the “Three piled rifles.”
The range of models and constructional improve-
ments shown in the B.S.A. Catalogue will illustrate
why the Bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings holds the
predominant position in the cycling world.
■irx ' kft V
7
\
f,V\
3>. /.
1
B.S.A. Fittings are
Guaranteed Interchangeable.
Exact replacements of any part can be
obtained. Don’t be put off with “pattern
fittings,” but look for the B.S.A. Trade
Marks on EVERY PART. They are
your guarantee.
Send for B.S.A. Handbook
free from
D. Y. RENNIE,
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS,
MELBOURNE.


Alkali Causes Soap
To Injure Hair.
Nearly all soaps and ready-mixed shampoos
—even the most expensive—contain too much
alkali, which is dangerous, as it dries the
sedlp and makes the hair brittle.
Really the most elegant and safe thing to
use is ordinary colinated cocoanut oil (a pure
saponified but quite greaseless liquid), which
is not at all expensive—but is far, far better
than soaps or other scalp-injurious things
Every chemist keeps a supply of this, and a
few ounces lasts you and mother, sisters and
brothers for months. Just wet the hair with
water and rub it through—thoroughly. One
or two teaspoonsful is plenty to create a big
quantity of rich, heavy, creamy lather. It
cleanses delightfully and rinses out easily
The hair dries quickly and easily, and comes
out brilliant, soft, fluffy, wavy and fresh as a
daisy, looking much thicker than it actually
is.
Best of all, this colinated cocoanut oil
leaves the hair as easy to dress again as
though you hadn’t washed it at all. And yet
it loosens and carries off every bit of excess
oiliness, dust, dirt or dandruff scurf.
IMPORTANT.—Do not confuse colinated cocoanut
oil with cheaper sticky, emulsified cocoanut oils
or other substitutes. There is only one genuine
colinated cocoanut oil, 'as recommended above.
Girls! Women! Give this a Corner on your Dressing-
table. Never Let a Corn Ache Again!
Like a Flash! Few Drops • Stop Corns Throbbing,
Then Cornc and Callouses Wither Up, Loosen
and Lift Out Like a Cork—Painlessly!
THE Australian people owe a
debt of gratitude to the wizard
in chemistry who formulated the
new ether discovery named
Frozol-Ice.
Little phials of this
wonder liquid are now
obtainable from any chem-
ist for a few pence. You
merely apply a few drbps
of this Frozol-Ice on a ten-
der. aching corn or tough-
ened callous. Right away all
soreness vanishes, and soon you see the
corn or callous that loose and withered
that it lifts out with the fingers, like a
, cork. Not a twinge of pain or even irritation
is felt when using Frozol-Ice, or afterwards.
No soreness, no inflammation of surrounding
healthy flesh or skin.
Only a few pence now gives one freedom
from all and each soft corn, hard corn, corn
between the toes, likewise tender callouses on
bottom of the feet. Every Australian who
tries Frozol-Ice sings its praises, for it
honestly does not hurt one wee bit.
Step in at your chemist’s to-night and in-
sist on having a small phial of Frozol-Ice,
in the green-printed carton. Stand on “vour
dig.” and refuse spurious imitations of *this
great compound.
Easy Way to Get
Rid of Indigestion.
Although you may have indigestion so
severely that anything but the simplest of
foods cause you the keenest suffering, there
is a simple way to get back safely to pleas-
anter, more nourishing foods. Just take a
teaspoonful of pure Salix Magnesia in a little
hot or cold water with eacu meal, and begin
at once to eat a little of any food you crave.
Salix Magnesia, which comes in the form ot
powder or tablets (never as a liquid or coarse
granules) is not a laxative, but neutralises
the excess acid in the stomach, and so prevents
or stops all the pain of indigestion. Its use
cannot, like pepsin, soda-water, etc., do the
stomach any injury, and it will soon enable
you to eat good, hearty, satisfying meals of
the foods you like best without fear of bad
results. Your chemist should be able to sup-
ply you with Salix Magnesia.
Gallipoli.
The ‘‘Rupert Brooke ” prise, instituted in
Melbourne and open to ail the writers of
Australasia , was offered this year for a
poem on ‘‘Gallipoli" of a length of not less
than 150 nor more than 300 lines. The
prise is intended as an Australian Memo-
rial of Peace, and, is to be awarded annu-
ally. The first winner is David McKee
Wright, whose successful work is here first
published. The judges in the present com-
petition were Prof. Wallace, Dr. Archibald
Strong and Mr. Oliphant (president of the
Shakspeare Society).
EUST on the cannon, cobwebs on the
drum —
The darkness passes and the day
grows wise.
Lo, from the South the rainbow-riders
come,
And all the world is spread below their
eyes!
Jewelled with dreams the flashing ocean lies,
The valleys crowd in shadowed mystery;
But over all the pilgrim thought still flies,
Racing the wind’s sob to Gallipoli.
Here let the swift wings glide in even
flight,
Broad-spread and silent through the rev-
erent sky.
The windy plains of Troy have passed in
light,
The Asian mountains fade, and blue seas
lie
Fondled to Europe with a summer sigh.
The great propeller’s dronings faint and
cease
Above the little graves where heroes lie—
White crosses by white waves. Ah, rest
in peace,
Brave hearts so young, yet not too young
to die!
We have forgotten nothing. Wing on wing
Beats in the van of our tumultuous days;
Across the seas of Heaven loud engines
sing
Their growing triumph up the airy ways;
Vast deeds of blood-won peace the stars
amaze,
And man is awed with man grown greater
yet;
But in that front of splendor, set ablaze
By Truth’s white flame, our souls dare
not forget.
Imperious force had met Imperial will,
Lightning had answered thunder; and
the rain,
Red and hate-driven,.strove all lands to fill
With a tempestuous agony of pain.
It seemed that earth was crucified in vain
Through all her noblest children. Free-
dom wept,
As Mary, for the hope of ages slain,
And God seemed dumb, and the great
vengeance slept.
This little path of water, winding blue,
Had other memories of other years.
These rocks had heard the war-norns bray-
ing through
The hosts of Xerxes when his myriad
spears
Glittered below Abydos, and strange fears
Raced on all winds down the Thessalian
pass,
With presage of huge loss and widows’
tears
To sound the challenge to Leonidas.
Of these scarred hills Miltiades was king;
By these brown sands perchance at eve
he strayed,
Murmuring the stern hexameters that sing
The Grecian valor that a poet made;
And here, perchance, he dreamt that, un-
afraid,
He too should walk where those great
steps had gone,
Daring one epic hour while Freedom’s blade
Grew red to victory at Marathon.
Miltiades! Leonidas ! The soul
Of earth in torture cried on Liberty.
“Help or we perish!” And the thunder-
roll
Of battle laughed aloud by land and sea,
While evermore some new Theromopyke
Drenched with its tears of blood the
trampled grass
And new Three Hundreds, dying to be free,
In falling saw the vaunting terror pass. ’
Then through the darkness of a million woes
Leonidas strode forth from mart and mine ;
From dreams and song Miltiades arose;
And kings that reigned in Labor's oldest
line
Left the green field unploughed, the undressed
vine,
And rushing to the tumult and the smoke
Made the red sacrifice by right divine
As priests and prophets of Truth’s coun-
terstroke.
And some were near; and some by far,
sweet seas
Heard only the low rain of falling tears
And wail of orphan voices on the breeze;
. But all untaught of war and war’s pale
fears,
They gathered to the-trysting-of the years
To stand or fall by one eternal law
That each, a freeman, strong among his
peers,
Must follow to the death that good he
saw.
This little gate of water shining blue
Guarded an ancient citadel of wrong.
Deep agonies of man these bare rocks knew.
And shuddering nations cried, “O Lord,
how long
Shall this great evil stand fear-girt and
strong
Behind its bastions of guarded stone?’’
The Ottoman, like discord in a song.
When all had marched with Truth stood
false alone.
Now. in the Armageddon of the world.
False joined with false, and Murder
marched with Hate.
Into the tumult, rank on rank were hurled
The ancient foes of honor; and this gate
Guarded with flame and rocks that stood
like Fate
Laughed a loud scorn of Freedom in her
woe.
It was the day when evil seemed too great,
And triumph set red laurels on the foe.
The gate was closed with flaming bolt and
bar,
But mighty were the hands by Truth set
free.
On fields of blood the crescent and the star
Might wave for dreams of barren victory
If skill and courage held the master-key.
These waters holding East and West
apart
Were as a dagger of the vengeful sea,
Pointed at black world-treason’s bitter
heart.
Oh, little waters gleaming in the sun !
Ob, barren hills where death lay hidden
deep!
The Word was said; the web of Fate was
spun;
How many tears of pride were yet to weep?
The blue iEgean woke from age-long sleep,
The great keels ploughed the foam in
Zerxes’ wake,
And the remembering isles by scarp and
steep
Trembled and gazed until the storm should
break.
The dust of Ilion heard the thundering
Of louder drums of war than Hector
knew;
All Ida in her mantle of the spring
Lay hushed a thousand glens and thickets
through
At such strange music. The swart fisher
crew
Shuddered as, bolt on bolt, the missiles
wailed
Over Cape Helles from the outer blue
Till silence fell and the great clamor
failed.
The clamor failed; for loudest knocking
made
No open path through that rock-guarded
way.
The watchers saw the great ships pass and
fade
Far beyond Lemnos, and the sea slept
grey,
Waiting, while bugle callings night and
day
Sang to far hosts of high adventure near.
Not steel and fire, but deeds of man must
say
The password that Gallipoli should hear.
Now set Faith’s holy trumpet to the
mouth
Of honor and send forth a louder blast!
For, 10, they come! The valor of the
South,
Dreamworthy of the future and the past,
Files on the crowded deck by hatch and
mast
And holds its dread in check with harder
pride.
Australia’s hour has struck, the die is cast.
And Fate sits brooding on the burdened
tide.
It is the hour when darkness draws to
death.
Knowing that conquering light drives fast
and near.
Now runs the blood more slowly and the
breath
Chills at a whispered word to sudden fear.
What shapes are these, what muffled sounds
and drear
The slow waves hear nor splash nor dip
of oar;
The formless capes their distant shadows
rear—
Speak low r ! An army gains, unseen the
foeman’s shore.
Not all unseen ; for dawning comes apace
Out of the fearful East, and on the steep
Are hurried warnings. The grey water's
face
Tells all the secret as the vessels creep
To the white line of beach. The swift tires
sweep
With crash and echo from the palin<*
murk.
Hoarse shoutings answer. In the rush and
leap
Doom breaks and young Australia finds
the Turk!
It was a deed for courage proved and
tried,
3 oo man faltered in that deadly test.
Swift was the onset. Battle loud and
wide
Y\ olce with the morning. Lightnings from
the crest
Of some far hill a steel-edged ruin prest
On all the pathless ridges, and loud flame
On every hand gave toiling Death no rest
loung blood wrote “Faith” and the world
read it “Fame”!
A P* rt > scattered on the thirsty hills,
Bleeding and wearied to their task thev
stood,
And laughed at pain amid a thousand ills
Not boasting, but in utter hardihood
They faced the task of battle red and
rude.
And recking upt of praise or gain or
pride.
On those scarred steeps they made their
landing good,
And stood to fight or, grimly fighting, died.
And now the tumult. swayed to North and
South;
The days, the nights, the mountains strove
with men.
For, fearless even at the cannon's mouth,
Here perished one who matched his
strength with ten;
And here Death rioted in brake and glen
Through weeks and months—a sudden
death that fell
From the far sniper in his leaf-screened den
Or the chance pall of some rock-rending
shell.
All days were days of pain; but some were
red
With vaster agonies, when heights unwon
Were challenged by the moving hosts that
spread
A wider target for the distant gun.
O proud heads held too high in cloud and
sun,
How great the price you paid for each
strong deed
That, daring greatly, left the task undone
And gained from Honor but a barren
meed !
Far off, at Helles, through the trampled
vines
Briton and Gaul an equal courage shared,
And drove the Turk beyond his iron lines
And smote him down while the long hill-
top flared.
Fierce August, with her hot, red sword
unbared.
Brought all her fevers in a cloud of woe ;
Tortured by flies, thirst-maddened, still they
dared
To snatch a vantage from the quailing foe.
Now over Suvla the red tempests break.
And in the dark ravines the death-fires
shine.
These hills were Freedom’s. Climb for Free-
dom’s sake
That she may come again, erect, divine!
Hard are the hands that Victory’s wreath
would twine,
Hard with the bitter toil of weai\v days ;
But harder that black trench at Lonesome
Pine
Thrice piled with death in all its crowded
ways.
Hmv shall men tear the solid earth apart
To smite the foe strong-armed beneath
their feet?
From rifts of rocks the crashing volleys
start;
Above, below, the storms of ruin meet
And surge and stagger in a blinding heat
Through bitter darkness. Last, the shout-
ings fail.
The strife is done. In sullen, grim defeat
The Turk shrinks back, and the strong
men prevail.
But not against the broad eternal hills
That guard the narrow waters, steep and
shore.
Arms against arms, wills against eager wills.
Australia’s sons were masters; but the
door
Stood barred with stone. Chill Winter,
bleak and hoar,
Blew a loud horn across the waters grey;
And ever as the graves grew more and more
The hope of Anzac paled and passed away.
And now men dreamed long dreams of peace l
ful days
Under green trees or by a summer strand,
Saw the old home, the dear, remembered
ways.
And sweet known places in a distant land.
England! Australia! Lo, the death-fires
spanned
The circle of the earth from sea to sea!
In that strange loneliness haifld sought for
hand
And grief made friendships on Gallipoli.
Steadfast of mind, but with an aching heart
Each faced the day that could but bring
him ill.
He needs must jest lest some slow tear should
start
And hot emotion overpower the will.
How many were the comrades lying still
Like that young singer with the morning
face
Who gave, of faith, so much that he mizht
fill
A little grave in a forgotten place?
Hearts broke of waiting that no steel could
bre'ak ;
And Hope was mute; and terrors of no
name
Walked in the sun or in the dark would
wake
More awful than the fierce destroying
flame
That from the watchful hills forever came.
Calling its victim out of toil or sleep'.
Long was the vigil. Day on day the same—
A watch with slow Despair was theirs to
keep.
Through vaster storms of war that shook the
lands.
Their deeds live on; but men too soon
forget
The sufferings and the toil of willing hands
r sober zeal to one great purpose set,
The months gone grey with longing and
regret,
The sickness and the wounds, the empty
place
When silent comrades of wild ventures met.
Missing the voice, the laugh, the vanished
face.
Oh, glad with joy of life were those who
sleep
In shallow graves beside the murmurous
sea,
And long and long the unvanquished hills
shall keep
T Their jest with doom in quiet memory.
Never had War heard mocking tongues so
free
Beneath the awful menace of his breath.
These scorned him eye to eye, nor bent the
knee
To that red Glory that is kin to Death.
Slowly, in darkness, moved the silent ships
Back from the place of sacrifice made vain,
lhe doom was past. The world in black
eclipse
T Had other calls afar to other pain.
Not here should Freedom find her throne
again,
Till in the West her conqering bugles blew.
Anzac and. Suvla. How the red flares wane!
Gallipoli is gone—the world is new.
Gone! And the war roars on through storms
of death,
And reddened valleys of a world’s despair,
Bam at its heart, fear catching at its breath,
while tears of widowed nations drown the
air.
Cold horror chokes the sob that breaks the
prayer,
Till, on a sudden, Hope at green of spring
Mounts on her holy wings, and everywhere
The growing gladness has a song to sing.
Peace! For the Wrong is broken in the
field!
Peace! For the Truth is master over
shame!
The shattered armies of the foeman yield,
Outmatched by that stern valor none could
tame;
And Freedom, splendid in her deeds and
name,
Goes crowned upon the car of Victory,
war dies like some great sunset lit with
flame,
Nor wakes the sleepers at Gallipoli.
* * * *
I know not what shall come of this seed
sown.
V hat fields of harvest waving fair and
wide,
V hat resurrection morn with trumpets
blown,
V hat stone from Faith's low tomb be rolled
aside.
know: not all in vain they died
who live till silence fall on tongue and
pen—
The youth of young Australia crucified.
The men who. of their manhood, died for
men!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


AEROPLANES, Seaplanes
=f= and Aero Engines.
VICKERS-VIMY COMMERCIAL.
1 I j
3.V f;
VICKERS-VIMY TRANS-ATLANTIC.
The machines illustrated can be supplied immediately from England. Also all makes of aero
engines, ranging from 75h.p. up to 400h.p.
Prices for complete machines ranging from £6OO upwards.
1 ' • 5/
I***
AVRO. 504. K.
m BAVHJLAND/ Ho. 0.
jJ
oe havill/AWD. »a« m
' ±-i
OB HAVJLLANO No 4
OE HAVHXAND No. 8a
BRISTOL. FJCHTEH. FIB.
' • .
mm
H
m m
is
a
i ■
S E 3 a
mmmmm
BE
2 e
SOPWITH SNIPE
F.Z.A. FLYING BOAT
iiispipf
..
r.au frying .»oat.
-
NORMAN
THOMPSON FLY.NO BOAT N.T. *•.,
For full particulars write to
VICRERS-AUSTRALIA LTD., Aviation Dept.
WM. ADAMS <O. CO. LTD.,
Corner of Ring O. Clarence Streets, Sydney.
MELBOURNE:
Wm. ADAMS & CO Ltd.,
521-523 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
96-98 Currie Street.
BRANCH OFFICES:—
BRISBANE:
Edward and Mary Streets.
PERTH:
33-35 King Street.
NEWCASTLE:
Watt Street.


J%// TManimous
ABBOTS? LAGER
THE DRINK OF GOODiimOWSHlP-
firowpc/ from
Pureffa/tiffopr On/p
m
§\
i
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
Increase in Rate of Interest to 4 per cent.
and
Increase in Deposit Limit to £lOOO.
Deposits will now be accepted up to £lOOO and interest allowed
at 4 per cent, up to £5OO, and at per cent, on any excess up to
£lOOO.
By Order of the Commissioners,
Head Office,
11 Moore Street, Sydney.
A. W. TURNER,
Secretary.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Yes, Uncle”
Criterion ......... “Ivene”
Koyal “The Boss Cockie”
Palacf, “The Blindness of Virtue”
The Playhouse . “The Rose of Killarney”
Tivoli “The Man from Toronto”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's... “Tolanthe”
Royal “Outcast”
King's “Three Wise roois”
Princess's “Ilindle Wakes”
Tivoli “Bran Pie”
Hoyt's De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciaiuum Dancing
7— ♦
“The Luck of the Navy,” having its first
Australian run at Adelaide Royal, is a
popular war-play put together by Clifford
Mills from a host of familiar sources. Its
one original idea is the long-ago planting
of a German boy in the British Navy, so
that when the Day came he would be a spy
with inside information. This Lieut. Peel
has a mother dispensing hospitality on the
east coast of England, and his comrade,
the unsuspecting Stanton, blunders in there
to be! kidnapped. Stanton is the modern light-
comedy hero, who in the face of superior
force) does nothing at all but chaff his cap-
tors, ! though various minor characters have
told (admiringly what a perfect devil he is
when roused. He just submits to be bound
and chloroformed, and is rescued later by
a comic middy. Humor is the play’s strong
point; and if war-time stuff is still accept-
able, this is sure of a welcome.
* * * *
The acting is all right. The hero’s., part
might: have been., built, for Frank Harvey,
and Fitzherbert is unconventionally, plea-
sant as the Anglo-German, pushed into
treachery by a keen mother —Olive Wilton.
Kay Souper is the “wounded Belgian officer”
kind of spy, and Eardley Turner drifts in
and out as a retired admiral, feeling “not
too old at 70.” Esther Mitchell makes a
long stride in her art as the flapper who
finds everything “perfectly thrilling”; in
fact, she has bigger chances than the rather
colorless heroine gives to Marie Ney. Gregan
McMahon produces with his customary*
finish, but does not take a part. „
i . . * * * *
“Maytime,” with its bonnets and crino-
lines, has vanished from Sydney Majesty’s,
so jrrudiences are no longer distressed by the
spectacle of players growing old in a night.
Pohtry having been kicked out of the theatre,
Paris will rush in on Saturday night. The
label, on its frilly baggage is “Yes, Uncle.”
On Friday night “Tilly of Bloomsbury”
tills her last at Sydney Palace. The same
co.; starts off with Cosmo Hamilton’s “The
Blindness of Virtue” on Saturday,
“The Boss Cockie” yarns on at the Royal
and listens to the silver rain of Sydney shill-
ings on the roof. Like the cake that Mother
makes, it isn’t as artistically iced as the
confection in the shop window; but sink
your teeth into it and see how good it tastes.
, . $ * *
“Irene,” at Sydney Criterion, has been
“ Hindle Wakes,” at
Melbourne Princess’s.
Helen Fergus as Mrs.
Hawthorn.
practically u n-a fi-
fe c ted by the
knockabout show
now running i n
Macquarie - street.
The management
•holds the view that
while the legisla-
tive entertainment
is several grades
below a bush dog-
fight, the new
musical-comedy is
suited to all tastes,
however respect-
able. This ba 1-
ances the tremen-
dous volume of free
advts. which the
papers give the
Assembly farce.
*** j ❖ v
While musketry
crackles in Ireland
and the shamrock
holds on for its
life, the old-style
sentimental Irish
play blooms again
in peaceful Sydney.
The gardener i s
Gerald Griffin, his
plant “The Rose of Killarney,” and his
garden the Playhouse. The curtain rises on
Saturday.
sfc %
A good narrative and better pictures—
that’s Lowell' Thomas’s “With Allenby and
the Anzacs in Palestine and Lawrence in
Arabia.” Through these oldest lands the
American war correspondent carries _ the
audience on the shoulders of beautiful-cdlored
phbtographs, many from the camera of
Frank Hurley. The horrors of the desert
campaigning are not stressed: the lecturer
prefers heroic deeds and humorous incidents.
The story which Lowell Thomas has brought
to Australia was unfolded first in Sydney ;
and as he comes at the invitation of the
Commonwealth Government, his Excellency
Davidson and Dame' Margaret were of the
audience on the first night.
At the Tivoli “The Man from Toronto”
skims through the sunlit shallows of'English
comedy, winsome Margaret Swallow and
George Tully leading the flight. Discerning
Sydney playgoers are planning second and
third visits, and asking one another, “Now,
why can’t we ahvays have a show of this
quality ?”
That very eminent tragedian John Barry-
more is Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde at Sydney
Globe and Haymarket. The Lyceum hangs
out “Children Not Wanted,” and Edith Day
wears away a dollar’s worth of shoe-leather
in finding a place where little Bills are wel-
comed. Australia has a look in when Earle
Williams figures as Capt. Swift, at Lyric
and Ci’ystal Palace. He robs one of our
banks —unfortunately not the one where our
own overdraft is kept—and escaping to Eng-
land finds a ma with a title and becomes an
accepted member of Sassiety. “Through the
Slums of Melbourne,” at the Strand, gives
that city’s underworld some undesired pub-
licity. Beneath the same roof Owen Moore
is the “Desperate Hero.” He appears in a
battered Ford car, and when a film star does
his stunts in anything less than a Rolls-
Royce you can guess he’s very desperate
indeed. Hoyt’s programme is Shirley Mason
in “Love’s Harvest” and a story concerning
a husband and wife who had their fling
when young. Their pasts are accidentally re-
vealed to each other, and hubby, who had the
biggest fling, is as usual the least forgiving.
It is titled “Would You Forgive?” and Vivian
Rich is the repentant little wife.
*!* *1” -!*
“The Girl in the Taxi” gives way to “Out-
cast!” at Mel-
bourne Royal on
Saturday. Marie
Tempest, who is to
provide her version
of the character,
will have the sup-
port of Graham
Browne and a well-
picked cast.
“The Yeomen of
the Guard”
(always mispre-
sented as “Ye o-
man” on J.C.W.
programmes) i s
running a second
week at Melbourne
Majesty’s on
account of finan-
cial results, nor
would this paper
lodge any objection
to a third week.
Considered in the
bulk the perform-
ance is one of the
best Australia has
seen. Since the
first night the
shapely leading
lady (Strella Wil-
son) has moved
more freely in her
unaccustomed
dance steps, and
softened her treat-
ment of the
“ Maytime ,” at Sydney
Her Majesty’s.
Leslie Holland as
Matthew Van Zandt
(champion long-
distance flirt).
dialogue. She cuts a fine figure of an
Elsie, and in her generous output of an
honest, high soprano voice, and her clear
enunciation, this graduate from grand-opera
is a reminder of Florence Young of old. It
says much for the personality and artistic
force of James Hay, the lightweight tenor,
that he isn’t belittled by Elsie’s tall presence
in their love scenes. But Hay has made
good in the grateful part of Colonel Fair-
fax before he begins to make love, and np-
where is he more conspicuously artistic than
in his long scene with the yeomen and “sis-
ter” Phoebe. One notices Walenn to be an
older Jester than he was a few years ago,
and that his dualogue and dance with Kava-
nagh (Wilfred) is hardly as humorous as
it used to seem; nevertheless they remain a
couple of good comedians in highly effective
parts. The mob of decorative girls who come
skipping around the Tower of London when-
ever there is anything doing in executions,
or side-shows, are now almost as accurately
melodious as the men choristers, and the
sustained note of Patti Russell, in the un-
accompanied quartet, is delightfully fresh
and sweet. “lolanthe” follows.
$
“Three Wise Fools” is still going its
American way at Melbourne King’s. John
O’Hara, Stirling and Esmelton do their best
to appear probable as the bachelors who get
very annoyed at dead Rena’s daughter when
they think she has fooled them. The task
of Stirling, in particular, commends him to
the sympathy of every thinking person. He’s
the doctor who melts himself to tears whilst
showing an albumful of Rena’s photos to a
tough young nephew, and his emotion sug-
gests a lovely death-bed manner.
** * *
The Allan Wilkie Co. staged “Hindle
Wakes” at Melbourne Princess’s on Satur-
day. Allan, wearing a goatee and a sallow
complexion, makes a convincing picture of
Jeffcote, senior, and Helen Fergus is equally
forceful in expressing the dour morality of
Mrs. Hawthorn. The actress is especiallv
good in suggesting the blackmailing side of
the old girl’s char-
acter. Miss Hun-
ter-Watts scores
the hit of the piece
as the practical
and independent
Fanny. The idea
that Fanny has to
pay for her week-
e n d by marrying
her boy is dis-
missed with fine
scorn in the telling
last scene. Fanny’s
dad is a careful
little etching by
Guy Hastings, who
stresses the man’s
weakness by talk-
ing in a tone of
colorless apology.
Edward Land or
presents a Lanca-
shire mayor with a
ruby countenance
and hair and neck-
tie to match. The
pictorial effect is
somewhat loud, but
the dramatic result
is highly commend-
able. Mona Duval
is the amiable Mrs.
Jeffc o t e, who
reckons a fight well
lost for a compro-
mise. The part of
her son, Allan, is
taken by Felix
B land, who is
fairly satisfactory,
though he never
“Hindle Wakes,” at
Melbourne Princess's.
Allan Wilkie as the
mill-oxoner
gives a hint of a Lancashire origin. Adele
Inman, as Beatrice Farrar, is just a nice
girl who apparently refuses to soil her tongue
with the awful dialect of her father.
At Melbourne Tivoli the company maintains
its war of languages and accents in “Bran
Pie.” The English section, headed by Gee,
Gouriet and Clarice Hardwicke, supplies the
cream of the light comedy—mot specially
rich cream—whilst the twangful ’Murkau
section concentrates on music and clatter.
Miss Lee White is in a class by herself,
being conspicuously undemonstrative in a
style of her own. It offers no convincing
reason why the lady should improve on
acquaintance and become something of an
acquired taste. But she certainly does. On
Saturday her changes of costume followed
faster than before, whereas her songs were
less numerous.
Of Blamire Young’s show in Melbourne^:
In point of subject the best of the 32 pictures hung
at the Decoration Gallery is ‘‘The Crucifixion,” with
a well-painted Saviour drooping tragically in the
centre. “Shepherd’s Track, Morning,” is the most
charming landscape, somewhat conventional in hand-
ling, but still remarkable for its bright color and
luminous sky. The artist suggests the Japanese
school in “Early Winter” and “The Edge of the
Road,” but his work is more satisfactory in “The
Plough,” with that implement, the horse, and owner
cleverly rendered in silhouettes. Young’s brilliancy
as a colorist, however, remains the strongest feature
.of his art. The scarlet curtains in “The Scoffers”
catch the eye like the maroon ones in “The Sermon,”
or the light that stripes the foreground in “The
Hollow of the Downs.” Then there are “The Model,”
an excellent study of figures in the mass, and
“Endor,” a fetching decoration in sombre tones. “The
Gate,” showing two old people and plain grey build-
ings against a delicate cream sky, is a delightful
little picture. So is No. 1(5, wherein an autumn-
tinted tree makes a vivid blob of orange in the
surrounding farmscape.
*❖ * *
Mae Murray is showing her dimpled coun-
tenance on Hoyt’s Melbourne screens as a
dinky safe-breaker in “Danger, Go Slow.”
She is a wicked little devil, who, however,
wins forgiveness by revealing a noble heart
in the final chapter. Gladys Brockwell is
a siren of another sort in “The Mother of
His Children,” and makes things lively when
she casts longing eyes on the sculptor of
the tale. At the Majestic “On Our Selec-
tion” is the film of the moment, and the
pantomime is as funny as the spoken drama.
The other Majestic feature is “A Fugitive
from Matrimony,” which depicts H. B. War-
ner as a woman-hater developing a kinder
feeling under the influence of a flapper. The
Selznick effusion at the Melba concerns the
efforts of Eugene O’Brien to befriend a sweet
thing in a remote Swiss castle. At the Brit-
annia Earle Williams in “Captain Swift” is
trying to hide his past under an innocent
alias.
The most striking thing in Adelaide pic-
tures is the attempt of paragraphs (of obvi-
ously American origin) to suggest that there
is something lurid about Barrie’s old “Admi-
rable Crichton,” now Americanised as “Male
and Female.” The island adventures are
treated with a fulness not possible on the
»tage, and are packing Wondergraph. (As
it chances, Adelaide has never seen the
spoken play.) “The Idol Dancer” at West’s
is also a full-blooded story of the Islands.
Good music is a feature at both houses, and
the Ps.v. adds singing to the programme.
“Fax”: Stated that Robert Toms, the
Amurkan young man of the John O’Hara
company, started his stage life as a musical-
comedy chorister. He hasn’t yet ceased to
chant his lines.
Melba got a grumble from the critics for
lack of patriotism in arranging the concert
she, gave before the King and. Queen in July.
True, she had Landon Ronald for conductor,
with a wholly-British orchestra; but an
unusual chance to 1 give British music a lift
was missed, the entire programme being of
foreign origin.
The London music-halls continue to be
converted to “pictures.” The Palace fol-
lows the Empire into the hands of a cinema
combine, the unrefusable offer of £345,000
having been made to shareholders, giving
them about £1 9s. for each 9s. share.
Numurkah (Yic.) recently built a fine
shire hall, and, instead of leasing it to a
picture showman, is running its own enter-
tainments, and thus paying off the debt. The
local bank manager turns the handle of the
cinematograph, the storekeeper takes the
tickets, and all the other workers are volun-
tary.
"Kissing Time” celebrated its first anni-
versary at the Winter Garden Theatre, Lon-
don, a few weeks agot There’s something in
“Kissing Time” —characterisation, and lines
that one remembers, as well, as pretty music.
You remember .the muddle-headed soldier-
cook, who goes around complaining of every-
body’s lack of conversation, and you don’t
forget that when he is contemptuously told
he wants a shave badly, his girl rubs the side
of her face and says “Oh, he does!”
Jimmy Glover, of Drury-lane, tells a
gloomy tale of drama in the big English
cities, barring Manchester, Birmingham and
one or two more. The war and “pictures”
together have killed the ta.ste for serious
stuff. Especially is this the case in Scot-
land and on the border. “The drama in
Edinburgh, Glasgow, Dundee, Aberdeen,
Sutherland and South Shields is now home-
less. Two of London’s biggest successes
have lately been playing to £2O a night, and
there are dozens of towns where a properly-
organised touring co. cannot find a week’s
shelter.”
“Orb” : Dan Barry told me that he once
induced Barney Levy, his well-known
advance-agent, to go to a theatre with him,
and sit out “Romeo and Juliet,” by the
Potter-Bellew co. Barney, whose days and
nights were spent in boosting plays, was
notoriously disinclined to look at one, and
possessed as much sentiment as a pound of
cheese. “We sat in the front stalls,” said
Dan, “and Barney stood it patiently enough,
though he seemed bored and utterly indiffer-
ent, until the last act. There in the half-
light of the darkened stage lay the beautiful
Juliet. The spotlight twinkled back from
her jewelled white fingers. Then came the
poignant end, and she sobbed out her last
speech. I had a lump in my throat. I was
overjoyed, too, to hear a suspicious suck of
the lips now and then from the unemotional
Barney. As the curtain fell I touched him
on the sleeve. ‘How did you like it, old
man?’ I whispered. Barney gave an extra
lohd suck. ‘lt voth bonther,’ he said. ‘Tell
me, Dan. do you really suppoth them there
di’mondth ith genuine?’ ”
“P. Pawnticket” : The remark that “theatri-
cal fights seldom get beyond the blows-were-
exchanged stage” reminds me of the time when
Alf Woods was running “Boy Jim,” a box-
ing drama, modelled on Conan Doyle’s novel,
“Rodney Stone,” and was hiring the
veteran middleweight Billy McCarthy to
be knocked out by the hero (Alf was the
hero) in the last act. By way of working
up enthusiasm for the night’s show, Alf and
Billy used to quarrel violently in the local
pub, and, when dragged apart, each would
threaten fiercely to fix the other up in the
fight scene that night. The news would
run rioting through the town, and often the
result would be a packed house. But Woods
struck trouble at last. A stranger bailed
him up outside the theatre and observed that
he had heard in the pub what Woods had
said to McCarthy, and, as McCarthy was a
good cove and a friend of his, he (the
stranger) was going to have a piece of
Woods right away. It took all the actor’s
diplomacy to get out of the situation ; and
the public quarrel as a method of adver-
tisement was -cut out.


j smxßtb
Warning Signals!
m
101
rs
7
w* r*
s» J
«FT*
> Y *;
4T>
v\V>»'
tr//ir
•/
=«:
r
I'
(•>
//
V/
/r
Si
me
ion
IN THICKEST TRAFFIC.
No matter when or where a STEWART WARNING SIGNAL speaks it always gets instant action.
V*
Its clear, penetrating note is easily heard above the loudest traffic din. It warns the approaching vehicles round dangerous curves
and corners. . \
Sure, positive, effective, easy to operate—the one dependable Warning Signal.
No finer Hand Signal than the Stewart has ever been made. From the first dety it appeared on the market it met with
an extraordinary demand, which has increased by leaps and bounds. Imitations have “come and gone.” The Si EWART SIGNALS
are the unanimous choice of motorists throughout the world.
Only Warning Signals of exceptional merit could gain and keep such a position. STEWART WARNING SIGNALS are exceptional
in both quality and service. The material used in their construction is the finest that can be produced. The Hand Signals are fitted
with six cut gears, beautifully tempered and mounted in a strong frame. They are practically everlasting. The Electric Signals
are fitted with genuine high-quality Electric motors, which give long years of never-failing’ service.
There is a STEWART WARNING SIGNAL to fit every purse and to suit every purpose.
Stewart Warning Signals, both Hand-operated and Electric, also the famous Stewart
Speedometers, Stewart Searchlights, Vacuum Feed Systems, eto., are for sale by leading
retail motor-accessories distributors throughout Australia. Motor- accessories dealers can secure
prompt shipment from any wholesale accessories distributors, or d irect from the following Inter-
State distributors.
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD., 284 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
MARTIN WILSON BROS., LTD., 299
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
BERRY & ROCHE, PTY..LTD., 239 Swan-
ston Stre« :t, Melbourne.
CORNELL, I JMITED, 122 Pirie Street,
Adelaide.
ARTHUR CHRISTIAN,.


Exclusive
Stewart Dawson’s
Outrivalling in Variety and Splendor the
Richest Displays of the World’s great
Commercial Centres.
Stewart Dawson’s rare Diamonds are set
in Pare Platinum, and are without doubt
the last word in Quality and Value.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS.
Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
PERTH (Aust.).
REGENT STREET (LONDON).
STEWART DAWSON’S
Largest Jewellers of the Empire.
D 9925 —New Design
Single-Stone
Diamond Circle
Brooch, Platinum
and 15-ct. ' Gold,
£7/10/-
KB24—Beautiful
Diamond Set Circle
Brooch, £25.
KlB2—Elegant Design Fine White Diamonds,
set in Platinum and loct. Gold, £2l.
KlB0 —Choice Design Platinum Faced Dia-
mond Set Brooch, £B/10/»
KlB3 —Artistic Design Fine White Diamonds,
set in Platinum and loct. Gold, £2O.
KBlo—Fine Quality
Diamond Set Circle
Brooch, Platinum
and 15ct. Gold,
£3O.
K 99T —Dainty De-
sign Diamond Set
Circle Brooch,
Platinum and
loct. Gold,
£B/10/-
Mounting's
Rare Diamonds.
Call at any of. the Stewart Dawson
Establishments and inspect their beauti-
ful assortment of Diamond Ring Designs,
which is continually being added to.
Remember high-grade stones are a per-
manent investment.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS.
Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRIST-
CHURCH, DUNEDIN (N.Z.),
HATTON GARDEN (LONDON).
STEWART DAWSON’S
Write for Latest Catalogue .
POVERTY
POINT
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“D.”: Plain Bill Holloway took a good
deal of guying before he left off his habit of
being the young hero to step-daughter Essie
Jenyns’s heroine. On one occasion—at the
Melbourne Bijou, if my memory serves me
well —Romeo made his first entrance, saying
to Benvolio: “Is the day so young?” But
already a disgusted voice was crying from
the depths of the house: “God’s truth ! You
again! Say, ain’t you got a grandson,
’Olloway ?”
“M.M.”: Ada Rochefort’s last curtain was
taken with little publicity, yet she was a
capable actress who bad been before the Aus-
tralian public as long as most. She first
appeared here with Bandmann in Shak-
spearean productions. Afterwards she was
with Williamson, Garner and Musgrove,
Jennie Lee and Alfred Dampier, and more
recently toured Australia with the Broughs.
Her last appearance was in “Old Lady 31.”
Death had been waiting in the wings for
her for months.
“Cabertal”: It took Bill Props to Show
“Irene” at Sydney
Criterion.
Robert Jewett as
Don Marshall.
annoyance at the
amalgamation. To
him “the other
firm” had been the
enemy for years,
and he couldn’t
shake off the feel-
ing at once. It
was not long be-
fore he clashed
with one of “the
other firm’s” trea-
surers—a man of
the slow and cau-
tious type. When
Bill presented his
week’s time-sheets
he was asked so
many questions by
a man who appa-
rently didn’t know
anything about
them that he be-
ca m e disgusted.
The names he
called that trea-
surer later were
novel to the ears of
even the returned
Diggers of the
staff. The next
Thursday Bill
handed in his time-
sheets again and
with them a little
box. The treasurer
removed the lid and found a round white
thing. “What’s this?” he asked. “A
headache wafer!” growled Bill.
“Hamfat” : “The Ring of Iron,” in which
Essie Jenyns made her first appearance in
Sydney, is still in the repertoire of touring
companies. In Auckland (M.L.) the
“Gentleman Jack,” who deserts his Austra-
lian wife, returns to an impoverished baro-
netcy and pursues an heiress, was played
by a man whose “affairs” were notorious.
There is a scene in which he, tells the heiress
that nothing can come between them, and
the deserted wife breaks in with the denunci-
atory line "Except your wife!” Jack should
reply “What wife?” But the Auckland ro-
manticist made it “Which wife?” and the
audience howled with mirth.
Bruce Newham, a returned Digger, who has
been stage manager for J. and N. Tait’s
“Tiger Rose” co. since his return from the
Front, is to take the Uncensored War Pic-
tures through Australia when Sydney has
done gazing at them.
“Ike Pagliacci”: Harrington Reynolds,
jun., arrived in Australia the other day to
fix up the estate of his recently-deceased
actor-dad, and incidentally tell yarns to
Fuller audiences. He stepped ashore in the
uniform of a British captain, but on the
boards he's as swell a creation as Bond-
street ever provided. Reynolds is British-
born, and had a unique war-career, serving
first in the Canadian, then in the Tank and
ultimately in the British Army— not a bad
record for a man whose chief success in the
States (where he has a reputation as a
johnny-comedian) was scored in “Haber-
dashery,” a skit in which he was "supported
by a big group of girls providing a display
of lingerie that necessitated the doubling of
the theatre fire-staff.
The aeroplane has made its appearance at
Poverty Point. John D. O'Hara is to pur-
chase one and fly to Adelaide at the end of
his Melbourne season. Many a busker has
found flight much more difficult.
“O’South”: It happened at a recital by the
usual Greatest Living Pianist. The grand
"lrene,” at Sydney
Criterion.
Thos. Henceforth as
Robert Harrison.
crash that pre-
cedes the single
note that m arks
the end of the alle-
gro andante in B
sharp, or words to
that effect, was
over, and the
player’s h ands
hovered about the
keyboard. The
sacred silence
reeked of atmo-
sphere” and “tem-
perament.” Then,
as though in
triumph, a finger
came down and
struck the solitary
not e, and thi e
Greatest Pianist
began to straighten
himself to receive
the plaudits of the
multitude. Beating
th e applause b y
half a second, the
voice o f Billy
Rile y, the abo.
stockman who had come to the city with his
boss and was being taken everywhere, came
in a loud, admiring whisper: “Good man,
by cripes! He find'im first time !”
“Macquarie Street”: “0.K.” (B.
19/8/’2O) on the Holloway-Essie Jenyns
season of 1887 reminds me that I learnt my
Shakspeare from Bill, for, being in my fifth
year of medicine, and being obliged to do
midwifery work at the Benevolent Asylum.
I put in pretty well every night at the Royal
while waiting for a case, often meeting my
pathology teacher, Dr. W. Camac Wilkin-
son, who was taking a course of ghakspeare
as I was. I have forgotten most things that
happened in my youth, but not a word of
the “Romeo and Juliet” play. I have been
bored to death by it since that time, not-
ably in 1913, when I witnessed Neilson-
Terry cavorting round the death-chamber as
if she had swallowed an ounce of strychnine
instead of sixpen’orth of a narcotic. But
never a moment of boredom was there for
me in 1887. Bill Holloway was a scream
from lvis entry until the final catastrophe.
Here are some of his gems:—
Was that me far-thur tha twent hence so fasst ?
Tybalt alive in triumph, and Mereutio sline!
Er—why to I-lavven raspactive lanity,
And fire-eyed fury be me triumph now.
What fry was here ?
But tell me not, for I have heard it all;
Here’s much to do with love, but more with hyte.
An’ if a man did need a poison, now,
Whose sile is present death in Mantua,
Here lives the kytiff -wratch would sal it him.
“0.K.”: I have no rankling grievance
against the new Combine’s threepenny pro-
gramme when you get it in a concise form —
in one piece, so to .speak—in the centre of
the booklet of advertisements. But when it
comes to paying money for such an inter-
rupted, protracted, irritating programme as
one buys at the Tivoli (the Mclntosh busi-
ness being now in the Combine, apparently),
the new imposition ceases to be a joke.
Hardly necessary to remark that this latest
form of amusement-tax is a further incen-
tive to picture-going in preference to theatre-
going. The pictures put their programmes
on the screen.
A new London play by H. F. Maltby, “Such
Louis Hattenbach.
Melbourne’s well-
known ’cellist.
a Nice Young
Man,” i s definite
anti-teetotal propa-
ganda. A fanati-
cal lodger converts
all the home to
temperance except
grandpa, who has
drunk a bottle of
whisky a day for
50 years and
doesn’t mean to
change. Father
and mother
straightway become
selfish and quarrel-
some, the total
abstainer,proves to
have practically
every other vice,
and the girl of the
house is about to
become his victim
w hen the old
boozer rescues her
and kicks out the
villainous water-
waggoner; on
which all hands take to their moderate liquor
again.
“Fax”: In only one Australian revival of
"Yeomen of the Guard” has the character of
Phoebe Meryll made its fullest possible ap-
peal to the sympathy of the audience.- That
was when Dolly Castle.s was Elsie, the stroll-
ing singer, and Aggie Thorne the daughter
of the Head Yeoman. Miss Thorne, a gifted
young pianist, by the way, had only lately-
taken to the stage, but her natural talent
needed little coaching in the part of Phoebe.
She left' her successors no room to improve
on her performance. She was charmingly
pert and coquettish, sweetly effective in song,
convincingly fascinated by the Colonel, and
truly ffathetic in her jealousy and distress at
the finish. Phoebe’s gentle resignation to
her fate —marriage with the awful Head
Jailer—seemed to harmonise with the Jester’s
woe when his girl turned from him without
even saying she was sorry. There is more in
the character of tricky Phoebe than in that of
Elsie, the conventional “good girl,” who is
trying to support an invisible sick mother.
And Aggie Thorne, the young Australian con-
vent-bred girl, filled that character of Phoebe
Meryll. She got inside it.
“Norbell”: While on the long, long-trail
from Invercargill (M.L.) to Chillagoe
(N.Q.), doing “Sweet Nell of Old Drury”
at the rate of six townlets per week, we
male mummers used to break into song in
the dressing-room after the show. These
concerts were a never-failing success with
the ladies in the next compartment, and they
"made • a hit with Nellie Stewart, who has a
blessed sense of humor. Harcourt Beatty’s
contribution, as lie climbed out of his King
Charles’s finery, was invariably this vocal
cameo:—
My name is Jack the Ripper,
A country lad am I;
1 came up "ere ter London town
Me forchin for ter try;
An' th’ life of Jack th’ Ripper
Is ’appy, g’y an’ free,
For as I cuts th’ lydies’ throats
I sings “Tra-li-a-ty!”
“0.K.”: Melbourne will be interested
in seeing Ma rie Tempest as the young
woman of no respectability in “Outcast,” a.
character “created” for this country by
Kathleen MacDonell three years ago.
Kathleen’s dissipated hat was the first fea-
ture of her performance, and it spoke so
eloquently of a sinful life that further ex-
planation seemed uncalled for. But its crude
profligacy falsified the rest of the play. The
girl developed a fine, self-sacrificing nature
in combination with the artistic tempera-
ment. utterly inconsistent with her previous
solicitude for the welfare of her impossible
lid.
“Albatross”: A recent Bulletin refer-
ence to “Dryblower” Murphy, of Perth,
reminds me of his controversy with Leonard
Nelson, then at the Melrose Theatre. There
was bad blood between the pair, and, stung
by his critic’s penpricks. Nelson hit back
angrily in his song, “Mr. Booze.” Un-
fortunately for the actor-r there happened
to be an educated pig on the same programme
and this gave “Dryblow’er” a chance to
counter with the following crisp example of
the retoft discourteous :
There are at present showing at the Melrose
Theatre an educated pig and an uneducated pig.
The former does not sing “Mr. Booze.”
Nelson took a vacation to think it over.
“Stargazer”: Plays like “Three Wise
Fools” do not easily take hold of the fancy
of the Australian, but they have tremendous
popularity in America, and they are elo-
quently representative of the kind of senti-
mental emotionalism in which Uncle Sam
indulges himself. To us it is forced, un-
natural hand-made .stuff; to Samuel it is
poignant truth. You could concoct a recipe
for the making of American pathos much as
you could for the manufacture of an Aus-
tralian hash. Nobody believes in the three
old boys in the Tait comedy; they are three
wooden automatons soaked in American “sob-
stuff,” and salted with a humor that has
nothing of the true Attic quality. What
there is of one of them is filched from
“Grumpy”; there is nothing to the others.
The girl is not actual, and the crooks are
false and flavorless. Surely an Australian
play that would give one character with a
taste of gum-leaves in it would be worth
more to any man of us than this mawkish
piffle from the Yankee factories!
T. H. Eslick, who has been running a
dance palace on North Terrace, Adelaide,
since April, has taken over the lease from
the Wondergraph Co., and is floating him-
self into a Palais Royal Co. of 20,000 fl
shares, £l4OO going to himself. He claims
that on his Sydney experience he can make
it an all-the-year-round show —in fact, that
it will be “cooler to dance in the Palais
than merely to walk about elsewhere” in
summer. Carnivals on the Exhibition Oval
and dancing-halls at Glenelg and Henley
and in country, towns are also planned.
“Orb”: “Old Pot,” who says he is a Scot
himself, insists that Harcpurt Beatty,
although born in Glasgow and spending all
his youth there, was not a good stage
Scotchman. He says (B. 19/8/’2O) : “De-
spite Beatty’s chuckle and ‘Orb’s’ approba-
tion of it, I heartily agree with the
Dominion critic 6f his Scotch in ‘What
Every Woman Knows.’ He did not sustain
the dialect.” Which shows that “Old Pot”
missed the subtlety of Beatty’s interpreta-
tion. John Shand in Act 1 is an uncouth
Glasgow railway-porter. In Act 2 he is
a blatant demagogue. In Act 3 he is a
successful M.P. in London. And in Act 4
he is a brilliant Cabinet Minister. The way
Beatty- gradually sloughed the broad accent
of Act 1, until in Act 4 he had hardly a
trace of it left, was most artistic; but it
was caviare to the Dunedin critic, and
apparently to “Old Pot.” Though born in
Australia, I, too. have a Scotch strain, and
as I played in “What Every Woman Knows”
with Beatty through Australia and Maoriland,
and was every day and every night in his
company throughout the extended Austral-
asian tour of “Sweet Nell,” I had a good
opportunity of judging the true ring of his
Doric, and 1 am wedded to the opinion
that Beatty’s dialect as John Shand, and as
The Laird in “Trilby,” was the genuine
blend.
“Old Pot” : Two of the best actresses who
ever visited Australia, Janet Achurch and
Amy Roselle, had two of the worst leading
actors for husbands. Arthur Dacre. Amy's
spouse, was a doctor by profession and should
"The Heart of a
Thief," at Sydney
Grand Opera House.
Pearl Hellmrich as
Ann Lake . the thief
with a heart of gold.
never have left his
pills. Ilis wife was
brilliant: it is on
record that when
she was engaged
by Irving to play
second to Ellen
Terry she outshone
the lead and was
the rage of play-
goers who came to
see her and not
Ellen Terry. The
Daeres’ end in Syd-
ne y was tragic.
Janet Achurch was
the first to give us
Ibsen’sf “A Doll’s
Ildbse,” and she
subsequently s u p-
ported Rignold in
“Macbeth” and
gate a tine study.
The mad scene will
not be forgotten by
those who saw that
grand production.
Ti 11 ell Brune,
though not in the
same class 'as the
other two. had a
husband who was
in the same class
as their husbands.
Clarence Brune
came this way with
his wife and tried a season of his own;
but there was a hard freeze after the third
night.
“T.C.J.”: When young and kiddable I
was persuaded to double Miss Corney and
(half of) policeman Bullock in “East
Lynne,” besides playing the piano entrances
off-stage. Sometimes I was Bullock, some-
times one. of the others, but I was always
Miss Corney. The necessary quick changes
were my undoing in the end. As Lady Isabel
lay dying. I trailed slowly (aMs, too
slowly!) qn, wearing a resigned air and a
skirt with a loner train. When the door
closed'on this drapery the safety-pin behind
gave way, and “discovered” Bullock’s pants
rolled up to the knees. My line, “Oh, Isabel,
poor child, what a change!” made the audi-
ence deliriously happy. It was my last
appearance as Miss Corney.
THE GRUMP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The bad old man has come to be
In this benighted land
A feature of all comedy.
He’s rich, you understand,
He’s very clean, his hair is white,
His dictum fierce he rams
Down others’ throats by day and night.
He is a terrible old skite,
And, mother, how he damns!
He damns the housemaid and the cook,
He damns the butler more,
He damns his spectacles and book—
He’s quite a fluent bore.
He datnns his friends, and damns his foes
With not a scrap more vim;
But as the stream of curses flows
Each person in the audience knows
There’s something good in him.
The servants love him though he damns
Them to eternity ;
His friends adore him though he slams
And bangs distractingly.
They put on an indulgent air
At each linguistic run,
As though to have him roaring there
And growling like a scalded bear
Was quite delightful fun.
And then come sadness , and alarms;
To soothe the heroine
He takes her fondly in his arms,
And sheds a pint of brine.
He puts things right, and all, resigned,
Make house with dear old Jim.
Lost souls are they. To every mind
It seems damnation of a kind
To have to live with him.
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


CHUNDER WINNING WORLD’S SCULLING CHAMPIONSHIP.
4-
&
v
we
' <s>‘> • n
%
C£L l-.zA
t'V r?.5 k *■
ft
X3*£
£p:
ScO
"SS*
c> c>
\ .a
L-g»\D
r ‘jS/iHxm
M
mM £*- ■
»/vi
<o
J*f ,r -
-» /
TO
IK
A
f,y«s
tfr,
TO*
/
■
»/
s^ss
*
\
S^ifcS
*
s T «*
wmm
WteM&s
■xv*xs
2£
&S8B&;
aasss
rtj *> vl
«&r£,
v ;*s»
K 2
a
2?£
£
fc?
sw
J*SS
/?
&**«*'■
m
/{,
%
**
rm
r^.'
/
HE
ri'.V
ssg^skSisSfcs
• ■:-o-v
S OT
i-r.--"
aw?
~. -/’'• —
"”'^'«-;sw
1
)fo*AJg y, C ♦ 4>Jg
i,, »Sa
«(
Cobra,” Sfre Boot PolisH
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Is the world’s
Best sculler, too.
Fastest thing
With oars afloat,
See his sharp-bowed,
Darting boat
Shooting swiftly
O’er the line
While the sun
Like “COBRA”-shine
Dazzles champions
Further back,
Sculling hard in
Chunder’s track.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
’s Special Whisky
RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LcwIS&WnITTY
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
IPII c-/vpTrrr>-
ICA’O
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND
r~cr>
BRAND
- BRASS, COPPER. NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSORAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA —Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES—SB Pitt Street, Sydney ... Phoiie City 2677
QUEENSLAND—CampbeII’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane Phone 2382
C- Li C-A'C
0
)>
0
llfc-A-C- D
C-A-C-
j CA'Q
:<^g-A - c 1
MOTIONS
SPORTING
NEEDS
The world’s sculling championship re-
turned to England on Saturday, when Ernest Barry
lost Alf Felton on the Parramatta by 15 lengths or
more. The weather was ideal, and a crowd estimated
by some at 100,000 lined the banks. The toss for
position favored Felton, and he chose the southern
shore to escape the strengthening tide. Felton was
the first to let daylight in between the boats. Scull-
ing beautifully, he passed the mile with a three-
lengths’ lead. The position was unaltered at Putney
(1 2 mile). Round the bend to Mortlake the English-
man spurted, and the pace he got up seemed to un-
nerve Felton. His stroke lost its sweep and he
chopped the water badly. Barry took a breather, and
then came at his man again. So fast did he travel
that he ran into Felton and' their sculls overlapped
Both were in neutral water in the centre of
the course at the time —'Felton having 1 made
the mistake of shifting to the northern shore. The
bump wasn’t sufficient to hurt either’s chance—in fact,
it prejudiced Barry more than it did Felton. Both
raised their hands; but umpire Bill Beach signalled
them on. Coming to Cabarita, Felton struggled
with the tide and wind, while Barry shifted in-shore
to slack water, and at one time was inside the
patrol boats. No sculler ever born could have held
him under such conditions,
and he rapidly widened
the , distance, to win at
Searle’s Monument in
24min. 32see., the slowest
time on the Parramatta
since Beach defeated Clif-,
ford in 1885.
Every living ex-cham-
pion resident. in Australia
followed the race. Bill
Beach (umpire), Peter
Kemp, burly Jim Stan-
bury, George Towns,
Jack McLean and
Dick Arnst were there;
also Australian champion
Jim PadcTon, veteran
Charlie Messenger, Billy
Fogwell, George Day and
Frank Starr.
The position is now that
Ernest Barry has retired,
and Arnst, who is the only
legitimate challenger with
the stipulated deposit in,
may be handed the title.
Arnst was prepared to
waive a claim in favor of
Felton, for another race in
Australia, but the English-
man refused. He has sug-
gested instead a sweep-
stakes event, in which Fel-
ton, Arnst, Padrlon rir
anybody else willing to
risk £5OO may partici-
pate.
BARRY, who won
the World's Sculling
Championship from
Felton last week.
There was a Sydney (League) crowd' of
12,000 to see Balmain wallop Glebe by 14 points
(3 tries 1 goal) to 4 points (2 goals). The Red
forwards began by closing the name up, whilst the
back division employed spoiling tactics. Despite their
superiority in weight the Dockers did not much
of the ball from the scrum, and Glebe’s rake Knight
heeled great guns. Glebe hammered away like rent
collectors, but; except for a fine piece of play
wherein Ogle crossed the line and couldn’t get his
third hand on to the ball in time, they were well
held by the Black and Gold lads. After a spell the
Premiers succeeded in opening up the play. Then
things began to happen. Snowy Latta was the first
to gallop over the Red line. In the second half
Balmain came again, and Jimmy Craig, grabbing the
leather near half-way, cleared out and scored. Then
it was Junker Robinson’s turn. He ambled home
from half-way. Craig missed at goal. At this
stage both sides began to tire. Glebe tried to make
the game open with a weak man .at five-
eighth, and the concluding 15 minutes saw
Balmain with the mastery, Robinson adding another
try and Watts booting a beautiful field goal. It
was not a good exhibition of Rugby. This was
practically the final of the competition* and neither
side was inclined to take risks. James Craig was
easily the best man among the backs. Shultz shone
out from a good pack for Balmain, whilst Burge and
Gray did best for the Reds. Young Love, Balmain’s
apprentice winger, showed up finely. Fraser played
well at centre, and should never vacate the position.
Old “Pony” Hallowav played a remarkably active
game. Benson at half, and Scannell in the. three-
quarter line, were the Reds’ best assets, whilst Proc-
tor as custodian was safe. Glebe were well beaten
by a much better team on the day. In the other
games Newtown prevailed over Uni. by 31 points
to 5. Wests walloped the remnants of Eastern
Suburbs by 29 points to 5. The vastly-improved
Norths recorded top score of the day at Annandale’s
expense—44 points to 3 points. Souths had the bye.
* * * *
The English Northern Union footballers
met Newcastle last Saturday, and won bv 24 points
(6 tries 3 goals) to 3 points (1 try). Some 12,000
persons witnessed the slaughter. The Novocastrians
played valiantly during the first spasm, and at half-
time the scores were only 5 to 3 in the Pommies’
favor. It was in the second half that the damage
was done to the Dargtown Brigade.
* * * *
In the first round of Sydney Union knock-
out competition on Saturday, Glebe-Balmain decided
at once that their only hope against Easts was to
keep the ball among the forwards; the opposing
’quarter-line carried too many guns. Walker, Easts’
half, was the star player on the ground. He was
constantly frustrated, however, the forwards being
keen on the ball. Watson, G.-B.’s captain, was great
in the forward line. The game was remarkable
for absence of “dirt” and for clever footwork in
the forward division. The Friends, Spence and Grose
in the forwards, and Stevenson and young Sheehan
in the backs caught the eye for the combined team.
For the losers, Beith (full-back), It. Marrott (wing
three-quarter) and Carr (five-eighth) deserve men-
tion, although the play of the whole ’quarter line
was admirable. Scores, 13—11. Manly made
amends for letting down their supporters on the
previous Saturday by wiping Wests off the map.
Scores 40 —3. It was a mere exercise gallop for
the winners. Wogan, Shute and J. Champion were
always triers for the losers. Mingay, Pym and James
showed up best for Manly.
* * * *
At Carlton on Saturday 45,000 swarmed
into the big oval to watch the collision of the Blues
and the Collingwood Magpies, of the Vic. League.
Interest was quickened by the knowledge that if
South won their last two games they would displace
the loser from the Big Four. However, South lost
to Geelong, and so finally disappeared from the
argument. Carlton overwhelmed ’Wood, and towards
the end most eyes were watching the high-marking
and goal-kicking of Carlton’s champion, Clover. Like
Bayliss, of Richmond, and Merrick, of ’Roy, he is
young and new, and on the same plane as Dick Lee,
of ’Wood, with the difference that Lee is a lot
older and has been a sick man for weeks. These
four teams will battle out the finals. South’s down-
fall at Geelong was solely due to rotten kicking—.
8 goals 25 behinds to Geelong’s 11 goals 10 behinds.
In the last quarter three goals would have saved
them. In 10 shots they could notch only one.
England’s lucky defeat of Maoriland in
the final Rugby League test at Wellington followed
the best match of the tour. In the first half the
Black forwards tore down the husky Britishers and
had 10 points to three at half-time —a try by Walters,
and two goals and a try by Ifwerson. England’s
score was a try by Bowers. Just before the interval
Ifwerson retired hurt, and the loss broke up the
Blacks. The second half was a battle of giants, and
although M.L. had the best of it they failed to add
to the total. England’s scores came from tries by
Bacon and Clarke and a goal by Gronow. Up to a
few minutes of the whistle it looked odds on M.L.,
but a “speculator” and a follow-on changed the
position. England won by 11 —10.
* * * *
At the Grand National Meeting at Adel-
aide, where the Musket strain is so much in evi-
dence, the Dequetteville Stakes for two-year-olds \ ent
to Brilliant Queen (Pistol —Metal Queen), and in
most of the other races the offspring of Pistol
kept green the memory of Carbine. The principal
race—the G. N. Steeple—wafe taken by Destructible.
Driven to the front at the start and kept there,
he had *an unhampered run, and if pressed could
have beaten Morning’s Australasian record of 6min.
for the distance.
At Brisbane Tatt.’s meeting on Satur-
day Nairn and Rappell King fought the previous
Saturday’s battle over again in the Flying. The
daughter of Cooltrim failed by a short head this
time. In the Mooney Memorial For My Ladv met
practically the same field that she had beaten the
week before, when Orcadian let his numerous backers
down so badly. She consequently started at a
short price. Whereupon the son of Orcus showed
a complete reversal of form and outlasted her. In
the Three-year-old Handicap Seremore was again
made favorite, but was bumped clean out of the
picture.
Just before Ready Aye Ready started at
Randwick the other day, his connections got well
on him for the Epsom. And when the public saw
what he did over six furlongs it rushed him for the
big mile. On Saturday at Warwick Farm he was
given a spin in the Liverpool Mile with Bst. 61b.—
4lb. less than his Epsom weight. He looked fit, was
backed down to evens—and ran last. Although he
got away well, and was second into the straight, he
collapsed utterly in the run home.
Gambler’s Gold and Sydney Damsel —each carrying
over Epsom weights—were galloping brilliantly when
Ready Aye Ready turned on the reverse gear. The
little mare was giving 141 b. weight to Gambler’s
Gold and ran him to a head. Both had it all on,
and the manner' of thus staying out a punishing
finish made this the best Epsom gallop seen up to
date. As of the two the lady was the more forward
in condition, the run brings Gambler’s Gold * right
into the picture for Randwiek. There is a fly in
the ointment of his chances, however. He hates
bumps, and in big fields hitherto he has usually
failed early in the proceedings through refusing to
gallop unless the fortune of the start gave him a
saloon passage. In the Epsom a horse that shirks
the scramble is heavily handicapped.
* * * *
Sylvafort’s showing in the Maitland
(N.S.AV.) Cup (lm. 3f.) with 161 b. over his Metro-
politan impost proves him to be a horse with some
pace up to a mile, but from that point he gradu-
ally fades away; even with only 7st. the extra
half-mile may prove too far. The winner, French
Artillery, was equal second favorite with Posiaslre.
The latter is not quite ready yet, and he was not
expected to start in the Cup.
* * * *
At Ivalgoorlie Springmouqt, a 10 to 1
chance, won the Hannan’s Handicap, the richest mile
event in Westralia, from Osseo and Salvator, the
favorite, Munjardy, finishing in the ruck. Spring-
mount is a locally-bred horse by the imported Green
Mountain, and is an in-and-out customer, having
run a shocking race at Perth a fortnight before the
Hannan’s. But he performed honestly enough on the
Goldfields: in the Kalgoorlie Cup, a 12-furlong race,
he beat all but the winner, Bardus, who started equal
favorite with Observation at 7 to 2, Azamor, a 6 to
1 shot, being third, and the time 2min. 35see.
Bardus is by Bardolph, and did a bit of racing about
Sydney before he was bought for the West. The
last race of the day, the Gnarlbine Handicap, went
to Pistolusion, one of the'lot sent over the Western
railway by the S. Aus. pastoralist Mick Raslieed.
But he couldn’t have been thought forward enough
to win after the long rail journey, for his starting-
price with Mossy Cohen was 10 to 1 in a field of
six, and he paid £7 9s. for 10s. on the straight-out
totalisator. The tote has a habit of doing that in
the West. Although the clubs deduct 124 per cent,
and all the fractions, tote odds beat book odds three
times in four.
* * * *
* Imported Coq d’Or is working on the
Fjemington tracks, and so" long as he continues to
move freely he is bound to be thought of for coming
events simply because he is owned by Clark and
Robinson and trained by Bradfield. All the same,
there can’t be much chance of his following in the
Caulfield Cup footsteps of King Otia and Lucknow.
This is his fourth season in hjs Melbourne home and
he is now aged. In the first two years ne ran six
times (unplaced) and last year he was too infirm to
be raced at all.
* * * #
A. P. Wade, who has spent a small for-
tune on his recent purchases of racehorses, has given
a lead about Finmark and Red Cardinal. The ex-
Maorilander was backed for the Metrop., in which
he is certainly the best-handicapped candidate, while
Red Cardinal was supported for the Melbourne Cup.
J. .T. Miller’s “Sporting Annual” had its
45th issue last week. Originally it was merely a
record of the performances of entrants for the Caul-
field and Melbourne Cups, but nowadays the Metro-
politan is bracketed with the Cups, and, in addi-
tion, it contains all the sporting records that any-
body ever wants to refer to.
Wilfred S. Kent Hughes, who is helping
Australia in the Olympic Games at Antwerp, is
Victoria’s 1914 Rhodes Scholar at Oxford. When the
weak Australian running team arrived in England,
Kent Hughes was pressed into service; but even
then the combined Aussies have not proved them-
selves classy enough for the world’s best at the
games. Hughes early in July had filled a couple of
places in the English championships. He is an old
Melbourne Grammar boy.
The English athletic championships this
summer saw all the old holders but two thrown out;
Baker, of Liverpool, one of the two, high-jumped
6ft. 3Jin. (a record, though the cable tells that it
has since been beaten in the Olympic). Native
English athletes had a poor time. Rudd, a S.
African Rhodes scholar at Oxford, won the quarter
and the half, and Edward, a Jamaican living in Lon-
don, the 100 and 220 (in lOsec. and 21 3-5 sec.).
Princeton University (U.S.A.) sent a batch of men,
on their way to Antwerp, and carried off the ham-
mer, javelin, hurdles (15 2-ssec., equalling record)
and long jump. The biggest surprise was in the
mile, a disregarded Frenchman bolting in the last
lap and coming home alone.
Ivahanamoku broke his own world’s record
of 61m. 3-ssec. for the 100 metres (109-363yd5.)
at the Olympic Games last week. He chippgd a
fifth of a second off. Kealoha, another native, came
next, with the Duke’s old figures. The Yankee team
won the 800-metres relay race in 10 min. 4 l-ssee.
The previous best was 10m. lljsec., put up over
the same • course by Healy, Champion, Hardwick and
Boardman in 1912.
* * * *
Joe Symonds fought his 18| red and slip-
pery rounds at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night
without attracting a single frown from the other Joe.
Sullivan was all aggression, and, keeping close in,
thrashed the opposing stomach like a mad drummer-
boy. The Britisher played for the head. In an
early session Sullivan’s nose began to bleed. In the
ninth his eyebrow followed suit, and the two little
streams broadened and pursued each other over every
space that offered itself as a course. In the 18th
Symonds’s punching had ripened matters a k.o.
He used a right to the jaw. Sullivan reeled and clung,
dimly conscious that the sound of a bell should be
about due. He was saved only to foul in the 19th.
It was a very low hit —-undoubtedly a foul —probably
an accident. It may also have been as painful as that
accomplished actor, Symonds, indicated. Had Siilli-
van lasted he mighjL have shaded the Englishman
on points. He had piled up a heap of them in the
early stages. On the other hand, he might fairly
have been abolished for fouling much earlier.
Ivo N/ hitton had a triumphal march in the
1 ic. Amateur Golf Championship last week* In
the first round he defeated A. Russell (4 up and 3
to play), and the second round saw him outclass
A. Hancock (6 and 4). In the semi-final Whitton
and A. W. Jackson had a splendid match, and
not till the 17th hole was the game out of doubt,
when Whitton led by 2 up and 1 to play. The
other semi-final between Bruce Pearce and T. F.
Rutledge was even more exciting, and lasted to
the last hole, when Pearce with a wonderful three
(Bogey 5) won on the post. The final, over a
36-holes course, was decided on Saturday, with
weather conditions excellent. Whitton played finely,
and in the first round did 78 against Pearce’s 81;
and with 54 for 13 holes against Pearce’s 58 he
took the title with 7 up and 5 to play. Whitton,
who plays beautifully all round, ranks high among
Australian golfers. Illness kept him out of this
year’s open championship at Sydney (won by Kirk-
wood with 290), but he took the title in 1912
with 321 and in 1913 with 302. Bruce Pearce
was second in the open at Sydney this year with
316. The surprise of the meeting was the defeat
of Eric Apperly (Aus. amateur champion), in the
first round, by E. Quirk —5. up and 4. The tall
N.S.W. player was lifeless and apparently suffering
from over-golf.
H. A. Parsons,
of Vic., tackled W. C.
Korner’s 24 hours’ Aus-
tralian .motor-bike re-
cord of 851 miles, at
Sale last week. He did
1114} miles and aver-
aged 40} m.p.h. A week
before he had to give
up, after covering 544
miles in 12 hours. A
fog descended upon
him. The new figures
take precedence as a
world’s record over
Yankee E. Baker’s
1027 miles at Mortlake
(Vic.). Parsons’s mount
was an Indian Scout,
with Dunlop Kailroad
tyres.
H. PARSONS,
motor-cyclist.
Although 54 started in the N. S. Wales
five-miles eross'-country championship around Rand-
wick (Sydney) racecourse on Saturday, the finish
dwindled down to a dispute between 11. Hayden
(Botany), H. L. Sheaves (Souths), and Bob Fitz-
simmons (Souths). Hayden went to the front after
li mile, and won with 45 l-6sec. to spare in 28min.
10 4-ssec. These three topnotchers filled the places
in last year’s five- and 10-miles championships; but
the positions were reversed.
After battling through from England,
Parer and Mclntosh had to take to the track when
near Albury. The little old ’bus was nearly all
patches, and finally it nose-dived in a ploughed pad-
dock, turned up its toes and said that it was a fair
thing*. Three weeks ago Leason had a little picture
in The Bulletin showing Parer saying to Mclntosh,
“Well, thank Heaven, the rudder’s still left!” On
Monday this message arrived: “The bloomin’ rudder’s
gone now.— Parer and Mclntosh.” The Defence
Department lent them another machine, so that they
might go right home on the wing.
* * * #
In the All-States’ lacrosse championship
carnival at Sydney last week, S. Aus. defeated Queens-
land (8-6), N.S.W. (8-6) and Victoria (5-4), thus
lifting the Garland Cup for the year. Vic.’s successes
were over Queensland (10-3), and N.S.W. (14-3);
N.S.W. defeated Q. (7-5).
The visit of Melbourne Uni. to Adelaide
produced good sport. The lacrosse match was the
best ever played between the two. For the first
half Adelaide went steadily* ahead, and scored 5 goals
to 2. Then the visitors developed a defence, and
gradually made up the' score to 5 all. The home
team at last managed one more goal, and won by
that margin. The football was all the other way.
Melbourne did everything for three-quarters,
dropped a lot of points in the fourth, but won by
13 goals 17 behinds to 10 goals 13. behinds.
R. H. Bettington, the young Cornstalk at
Oxford, played against Leveson-Gower’s XI earlv
in July. Oxford had rattled up 350, and the XI
responded with 259 and 269 for seven wickets (inn-
ings closed), leaving Oxford an hour and a quarter
to get 179. The Aussie, biffing the bowling in all
directions, rattled up 101. not out (out of 181), in
65min. ; and the game was over. In the previous
week, lie took 13 wickets for 128 V Surrey. Bet-
tington’s next match was in the ’Varsity test —
Oxford v. Cambridge; but wet weather only per-
mitted a day’s play, and it ended in a draw.' Bet-
tington starred, by the way, as “Parramatta,
N.S.W. and New” —was the only player in both
teams from outside the coastline of Britain.
* * * »
School football is good in Adelaide this
year. Melbourne Grammar, taking their local pre-
piiership with them, went across to be beaten by
St. Peter’s on the Adelaide Oval. The winners*
straight kicking deserted them, and they nearly
lost the game after having the better of the play-
on balance. With half a minute to go, the score
was a tie, but as the bell rang it became: St.
Peter’s, 11 goals, 13 behinds; M.G.S., 11 goals 7
behinds.
❖ * * *
Adelaide has had its first Marathon—a
round-the-city course; six starters. Duncan (S.A.)
led for half-way. but stopped with cramp; then
Collins (Vic.), who had won the S.A. 10-mile cham-
pionship the week before, had things to himself.
Remembering how he failed near the finish of the
Victorian race, he took things easy, and jogged
home a winner by several miles in 3hr. 18m. 22sec.;
Wolter (S.A.), second; Byrnes (Q.) a bad third.
MISDIRECTED EFFORT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Sydney police have captured a movable two-
up school. This is the fifth time that this school has
been successfully raided.”
The night was dark. A misty moon raced through
the riven clouds.
The atmosphere suggested thoughts of crime and
forms in shrouds.
“What was that noise?” the Stranger said.
“It was enough to wake the dead.”
“A burglary,” his friend replied:
“It was some citizen who cried
For the police—thus demonstrating that he is a fool.
The Force,' to-night, is all absorbed sleuthing a
Two-up school.”
“I’ll raise you ten!” “Another five!” “I stand!”
“Two cards!” “I’m out!”
The bets ran high in Scattersall’s. “Five whiskies.
Mine’s a stout.”
It was the Stranger’s friend who spoke.
“But,” asked the former, “can we soak
And gamble without any fear
Of legal process ?” “It is clear,”
The other said, “that we can here do what we dam’
well please.
The Force is barred from raiding clubs—unless they
are Chinese.”
Upon the wharves the pilferers went through the
bursting bales:
Unchecked the profiteers took people down at bargain
sales:
Had any scandalised John Hop
Called on them angrily to stop
The crowd would have been overjoyed.
The Force, however, was employed
Attempting to induce a race of gamblers, born and
bred,
To drop it all through fear of fines of forty bob a
head.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


Delivering' a Punch!
Many spectators not conversant with
the art of Boxing are frequently filled
with amazement at the comparative
ease with which one skilled boxer can
“knock out” another. The blow seems
to travel but a few inches, and the
receiver drops as though shot. It is
just a matter of timing—of science—
of “knowing how.”
I Will Teach
You by Post.
I will let you into the secrets of the game, as I
have learned them from the world’s greatest masters
of the gloves. I will show you how to deliver a
punch harder than that of an untrained rtpan stones
heavier than yourself. I will take you through the
science of Boxing in easy stages, until, under my
personal advice and criticism, you are able to hold
your own in any company.
You ought to write for my illustrated _ booklet,
“Scientific Boxing in your Home,” which gives fuller
particulars, arid cost of tuition. Just write your
name and address on this advertisement, and post to
me. Send three penny stamps for postage.
M
mms.
m
■m
m
We specialise in high-class Box-
ing Gloves and shall he pleased
to supply prices on application.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,
224 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street (Corner Crown Street), SYDNEY.,
LONDON to
EDINBURGH Trial
( V/nCEF/ELIT)
Rogef.
MOTOR OIL ,
users were victorious,
as uusal.
C.C. Wakefield § Co. Ltd.
Union House, George Street, Sydney;
and London.
tm'my
: :
y
’ M
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Over the Wor 1 d*
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOB
MINING, MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAM ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY, THE GENERAL MANAGER, THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNF.
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
Box 220 Q.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
3P
I
I
V AND
COUGJIS, COLDS,&C.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE,
DOSE .—Give to a child one-year-old a
teaspoonful of the Mixture; two years,
a dessertspoonful; four or five years,
a tablespoonful; six to eight years,
one-and-a-half tablespoonful; ten to
twelve years, twotablespoonsful; for
fifteen and -upwards; two-and-a-half
tablespoonsful.
These Doses to he given every Six
Hours until the Patient is nearly welly
then twice a day till quite well.
None genuine without my Signature:
Jor further Directions refer
to Sides of Bottle.
N.B.—Persons found infringing
Trade Marks will be prosecuted.
This is the familiar label’ that is found on
every bottle of
GREATHEAD’S
MIXTURE
the safe, sure, and time-tested remedy for
Colds, Coughs, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Quinsy, Tonsilitis, Influenza and all Bron-
chial Troubles.
Chemists and Grocers sell it in generous-sized
bottles. If you would safeguard your health
always
Have a Bottle by you for
Colds or Sore Throats.
TONE UP YOUR
LIVER.
by taking “Greatoids,” the small but very
effective Liver Pills. They are sold at 1/-
and 1/6 by grocers and chemists. Their
action is mild and natural, and they don’t
form the pill habit. Don’t suffer from bilious-
ness or constipation.
TAKE
GREATOIDS.
A Well-matured Tobacco at Last!
“NOSEGAY”
MANUFACTURED BY T. C. WILLIAMS, VIRGINIA, U.S.A. *
Most Pipe-smoking Troubles come from Using Tobacco that is too New.
NOSEGAY does not bite the tongue!-
NOSEGAY does not affect the nerves!
NOSEGAY burns down to the last particle in the pipe!
12/- per lb. &/- per lib. 3/- per ilb.
Postage—N.S.W: 6d. for the first lb. and 3d. every additional lb.
Other States: Sd. for the first lb. and 6d. every additional lb.
SAMPLE TINS 1/4, Post Paid.
A. A. MARKS, LTD., 376 George St., Sydney,
Cigar and Tobacco Importers. BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
Economical Motive Power.
There is scarcely any class of machinery but what can be driven far
more advantageously, efficiently and cheaply by electricity than by
any other power.
"RHODES” MOTORS
are built to stand continuous and varied seiwice, take up but a few
square feet of floor-space, and are liberally safeguarded against break-
flown • of British manufacture, amply rated, and comply with all
requirements of the British Board of Trade; fitted with double-ring
oiling device which assures perfect lubrication.
SINGLE PHASE. Start up on full load; of the repulsion induction
type, and specially suitable for pumps, for driving hoisting apparatus
in mines, and for any other apparatus in which it is imperative that
the motor start instantly on full load.
Manufactured by RHODES MOTORS
LTD.* DONCASTER, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents:
HOMEWOOD 8 O’NEILL po. w.
Head Offices and Warehouse: 172-176 William
Street, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 1: Somerset Place, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 2: Ferrars Street, South Melb.
Sydney Office: 375 George Street.
r
PERFECTION MARINE ENGINES
THE 2-H.P. “BANTAM” ENGINE
for installing inside your boat.
SPECIFICATIONS.
Bore 2g, Stroke 2 i,
R.P.M. 500 High-
tension Ignition.
DIMENSIONS
. OVER ALL,
Eength 16in., Width
lOin., Height 16in.,
" Weight 401 b.
THE “BANTAM ”
MARINE MOTOR
drives your boat
from 7 to 9 miles
an hour. May be
easily operated and reversed without pre-
vious experience of gasoline engines.
Suitable for Canoes, Rowboats, Dinghies, etc.
Ideal for the Week-end Fishing
-For particulars of Caille Perfection 2-h.p. Inboard Motor and
Outboard Motors from 2 to 30 h.p., for Benzine or Kerosene fuel,
write direct to the sole agents for Australasia and the Pacific Islands,
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED
76.-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney. 344-6 Swanston
Melbourne. 138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Also at Wellington, N.Z.
Cable Address—“Brosbenson.”
- ' ------ C. 330.


Sporting Life” Tobacco
A High-grade Tobacco specially made for Farmer’s. Mild in flavour and of ex-
quisite aroma, this Tobacco admirably meets the needs of those smokers who
demand a sweet and cool smoke. Cut from rich gold bars, and specially packed,
it embodies the very essence of pipe-tobacco excellence. Obtainable in two sizes!
£-lb. carton. Price 5/6 1-lb. carton. Price 11/.
We Pay Carriage.
Farmer’s, Sydney.
Box 497. G.P.O.
BEAUTY OF LINE.
It is the aim of Shave de-
signers and tailors to create
and .develop the line most
becoming to the individual.
Unfettered by the need to fit
gowns before completion,
they are given every oppor-
tunity for success.
SHAVE,
Ladles’ Tailors, Centrewav,
dressmakers. Melbourne.
ir-«
IfflUK (KKUOTBS
Vanity Fair Silk Gloves
give added style and grace
to the lines of your hand.
They fit better, wear longer
and are more comfortable and
satisfactory in every way. The
reason is their superior quality,
excellent design and workman-
ship.
Vanity Fair Silk Gloves are
double tipped for double wear,
and finger tips are guaranteed
not to wear through before
gloves have given reasonable
wear, or have been washed.
Your Draper should have them.
VF 27
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
The Stradbrokes, the new State Excellen-
cies, will apparently be in residence for only
a little while at Stonington, which has been
the vice-regal home since the St. Kilda-
road mansion was lent to the Federal Gov-
ernment for the G.-G. nearly 2U years ago.
Latterly the Stonington lease has been
annual, _ subject to six months’- notice on
either side. The Public Works Department
is now looking for another place nearer the
city- The rent paid, including rates, is
£l2OO a year, but the furniture goes with
the house.. \With an economical Treasurer
in power it -is doubtful if any more will be
provided now, earl or no earl.
Although he will not be required to shift
out for five months yet, as the Stradbrokes
are not expected till February, Lieut.-
Governor Irvine and family are going back
now to their own home at Kilevy, Eltham.
They have been living at Stonington for a
year, and may use it again, but only for
special functions. Kilevy, which is named
after the Ulster village wherein Irvine was
born, has been improved lately.
The sort of place that Premier Lawson is
looking for as a successor to Stonington
must be within a half-hour’s walk of the
G.P.0., or, if it can’t be so near town, it
ought not to be away in the wilds of Ivew.
East Melbourne seems to offer a suitable
opportunity to save some dignified family
residence or other from being converted into
flats. A fine mansion preserved from the
flat-fiend is a brand plucked from the burn-
ing. Not that there are flats to burn in
Melbourne yet awhile. But there soon will
be.
Penetrating his disguise—such disguise as
very correct evening-dress affords —some of
his political opponents—formerly no doubt
his worshippers—hooted Billy Hughes as he
entered a box at Her Majesty’s Theatre
with his wife and a woman friend to see
“The Yeomen of the Guard.” The orchestra
got to work and made more noise than a
circus brass band for a minute or two, and
then a counter-demonstration was worked up
in Hughes’s favor by some ■ stall and d.c.
patrons. Most of those present felt as indif-
ferent as Billy looked.
The old aristocracy of Geelong had a
shock at the end of its exclusive Golf Week.
Among the visitors to the tournament was a
N. S. Wales squatter and Imperial ex-army
officer recuperating after war experiences—
a presentable and well-spoken young man
who, by his charm of manner, was soon
cher ami with the Best People, and
mammas began to wonder which princess he
would take home with him to the English
shires. After receiving the entree to clubs and
houses for the week the debonair unknown
hastened to take part in other fixtures in
the Vic. golf round, leaving general regret
behind. He also left a cheque. Next he
was arrested at Ballarat with 23 golf balls
in his possession for which he could not
account. Then golf sticks, clothing, boots
and sundries were missing by members of
the Geelong Golf Club. Presented before
the local justices he owned that Montmorency
was a fiction and Daniel McDonald his name.
Papers and cheque butts in liis belongings
bore this out —until they were found to have
vanished from Scott’s with the travelling out-
fit of one Daniel McDonald, a squatter trom
another State. Not one of the old aris-
tocracy has thus far called on the unfortunate
young man in the gaol to sympathise with
him in his prolonged attack of absent-
mindedness.
There was bitter disappointment when
the list of titles and decorations conferred
by Edward P. was published. Some fondly
hoped that the Grant and White knight-
hoods, the C.\ .O.’s and the M.V.O.’s were
just the head of the procession ; but when
the days passed and nothing more eventu-
ated, gloom settled down hard. Expectant
ones and their sisters, their cousins and
their aunts may, however, revive their hopes
as New Year’s Day approaches.
Norman Menzies left £44,500 to his widow
(Dorothy Vane) and children.
Leslie Madden, after being prostrated for
months by neuritis, is now on the road to
Wellville. She hasn’t resumed the really
strenuous life, but she devotes her mornings
to medical treatment and her afternoons
to the undies emporium in Collins-street,
thus making a business of getting better, as
it were.
As brother Russell is in England, Frank
Clarke, Minister for Works, has taken his
old home, Rupei\tswood, for a few months.
Sunbury is only an hour’s run from town
by express or ear, and on late Parliamentary
nights the Melbourne Club is always handy.
Frank is still an idol with the old house-
hold staff at Rupertswood, which reveres
the namds of S William and Janet Lady
and he will do very well as the acting-squire
of the district.
-Looiak is almost in tears at the prospect
ot losing Norman Conquering Bayles as
its State member. Norman a while a°-o
sailed for England, and ■ efforts made to
induce him to change his mind and return
have thus far failed. It would be a safe
seat for Donald Mackinnon if he would
take it, but he has boldly announced that
he will stand by Radical Prahran against
all-comers so long as it will stand by him.
Swinburne is being egged on. He lives just
a couple of tram sections off in Haw-Haw-
thorn.
Despite the high cost of tick£ts, the first
Aero Ball did not make a brilliant show in
the St. Kilda Town Hall. General White and
his wife, Admiral Grant and General Chau-
vel and his wife were among those who
graced the occasion—Mrs. Chauvel in a new
style of hairdressing that rather sacrificed
her beauty. Mayoress Stein rustled in the
capacity of committee lady; and Col. Eric
Harrison’s wife wore a wonderful pinny of
yellow satin with frothing of red and
orange tulle tied around her. An aero-
plane flanked the pink decorations which
bloom at all St. Ivilda Town Hall frivols.
But the buffet-table in the supper-room was
a triumph of daffodils, violets and wattle
springing from banks of green moss.
( The widow and two sons of Mr. Dick
Casey have set a good lead to legatees by
giving £lOOO to be divided between two hos-
pitals—the Melbourne and the Children’s.
Each £5OO endows a bed for evermore in
memory of R. G. Casey, and somehow the
benefaction seems to amount to more than
if.it had come by way direct of his last will
and testament. Widow and family are still
living at the big white house on South Yarra
Hill.
Brig. General Bertie Lloyd is off to India
for 18 months to attend the military staff
college at Quetta, and is taking wife and
kiddie with him. Mrs. Lloyd is a daughter
of old Colonel Pleasants.
Burnett Gray, who was a St. Kilda coun-
cillor when he went' to the war, is still a
military-hospital case. He was gassed in
France, and is recovering slowly from result-
ant eye-trouble.
It’s a mistake, as Talleyrand discovered,
to be too zealous. During the debate on the
Public Service Bill, M.L.A.,
feelingly interposed that you could tell junior
lady-teachers anywhere. “How?” he was
asked. “By their poverty-stricken appear-
ance,” replied Tommy with emotion. Imme-
diately there was a shrill chorus of “Ohs!”
and a buzz of indignant chatter from the gal-
leries, which were decorated with dominies
in georgette and crepe de Chine, and-“their
gallant but clumsy champion looked as
though the floor would confer a favor on
him by opening and swallowing him up.
Mary Mack, a contralto, is beginning to
loom in musical affairs. A pupil of Sobell,
she won a 12 months’ scholarship in her
second year at the Uni. Conservatorium, and
followed up that suc-
cess with a diploma
and the coveted Gr-
in o n d Exhibition.
Mary is now the first
and second students’
singing teacher at.
the old address, and
is establishing her
well-built voice on
the concert platform.
A few weeks back
she showed her oper-
at i c promise a s
Nanna in Claude
Heydon’s “Paolo and
Francesca” at the
Playhouse. During
the war she lent her
warble to the Red
Cross and helped
£lBOO into the hafT The young artist is a
v. IU vir 6l " s Q ua tter Mack, of Berrybank, in
tk We stern District, and saw three brothers
ort to Egypt and Palestine. The accompany-
ing photo is Vandyck’s work.
The Ainslie Mills widow has rushed her
family of four to the family wool-farm near
Hay. Her 17-year-old eldest daughter, Mary,
who was a most attractive bud of the Prince
season, will partake of Cup frivols before
being taken to see London under the direction
her English relatives, starting with Aunt
Elizabeth Cavendish. Aunt was Melbourne’s
smartest? Society belle of the early ’eighties
when her squatter dad decorated the House
of Landlords. In dying he just missed the
family baronetcy, which fell to his eldest
son George, who a few years later died of
typhoid fever. His brother Robert, who
was married to a daughter of Wilkie, a
famous Collins-street man, did not live long
after inheriting the title, whicfi passed then
to his young son. The boy fell in France
in 1916, on the eve of his 21st birthday. His
only brother Adrian, who left Eton for the
war in its last year, has some months to go
before his coming-of-age festivities make the
welkin ring at the Scottish homestead, Pol-
kemmet. During the war the place was used
as a hospital for officers.
Adelaide goes a-hunting :
In the halcyon pre-war days, the meet of the
Hunt at Strathalbyn was one of the cheeriest social
fixtures of the year, being usually preceded by ,a
dance, with many house-parties following over the
week-end. Last Saturday the red coats had an
excellent run in spite of the heat and rather diminu-
tive pack, and a crowd of our Very Best applauded
from the roads. Lancelot Stirling, a former master,
was well to the fore, but for the first time for 36
years let others do the hard riding.
The A.R.C. Grand National Meeting drew a large
crowd to Victoria Park, many of the women sport-
ing their new spring frocks in the warm sun. His
Ex. and Lady Weigall attended with Priscilla and
suite, the fair-haired dame wearing a cinnamon
cloth coat and skirt, wonderful sables, and a plumed
brown and blue..hat. A large proportion of those
present turned up in the evening at “The Luck of
the Navy.”
Norman, son of J. A. Riley, of S.A. Cricket Ass.,
married Miss Bates, last week, at St. Peter’s Col-
lege chapel. The dainty bride hails from Clifton,
Bedfordshire.
Last week a number of University students gave a
very jolly dance at the Osborne Hall to entertain
members of the visiting Melbourne Uni. team. The
room decorations were in black and white; the
supper tables supported yellow Iceland poppies and
daffodils. This week the conquering St. Peter’s
College boys entertained Melbourne Grammar football
team in the same hall. Among the youngest set this
is the most important dance of the season, and the
flappers who scored invitations had a distinct win.
Irene and Nellie Scarfe gave a well-planned dance
at their picturesque home at Marryatville on Thurs-
day. So many hostesses have entertained with
Palais parties that the private dance has been
comparatively rare this winter.
The Adelaide people who get the R.V.O. for “im-
portant personal services rendered to the Sovereign”
(iri the person of the Prince) are Harry Blinman,
the crack cricketer of the ’eighties and now Principal
Under-Secretary, and Duncan-Hughes, the barrister-
son of the late John Duncan—he bears the name of
Hughes out of compliment to his rich great-uncle,
who was prominent in the early days of Wallaroo
and Moonta copper-mines, and was one of the
foqnders of Adelaide University. Blinman was at
the head of the organising of festivities and recep-
tions in Adelaide. Duncan-Hughes, as an acting-
A.D.C. to the Governor-General, accompanied the
Prince all round Australia.
The Queen Adelaide, our most exclusive club, is to
have a new secretary. Miss Vere Hopwood, now in
England, has resigned and Gertrude Harris, formerly
her assistant-sec., will go up one.
A patriotic Scot has presented the S. Aus. Cale-
donian Society with several hundred tartan kilts,
bo*ght at a sacrifeece, ye ken, from the British
Government, which had no further use for them.
And, protesting wives notwithstanding, the Cale-
donians have valiantly promised to wear the re-
markable garments on festive occasions.
After years of confirmed bachelordom,
Harold Asher, who edits Table Talk' for his
father, has been betwitched by a pretty
widow. She is Mrs. Mirth Raymond, a
daughter of racing-man R. Kelly Maitland.
Influenza carried off her filst husband soon
after her wedding. She is still only a girl.
The medical Atkinson Wood’s elder chick
Marjorie has just accepted a very pawnable
pledge of affection from young Colin Jamie-
son, the only son of the well-gilded St.
Kilda-road family.
The engagement is announced of Zara,
only daughter of Mrs. Hale Morris and the
late Fred Hale Morris, of Fairfield, Ruther-
glen, and Leslie, late youngest son of the
John Lambs, of Wellwish, Deniliquin
(N.S.W.).
Barrister Joan Lazarus, daughter of
Mark, who ha.s long been a limb of the law
at Ballarat, is stated to be on the verge of
marrying “a doctor” —presumably a doctor
of medicine. The announcement doesn’t
suggest that the Portia in question will re-
tire from the legal stage. She is expected to
go on practising, for the law runs in her
blood. She doesn’t get it on-ly from dad.
Her maternal grandfather was David
Braham, a bygone Melbourne lawyer.
Mrs. Boyle, who was in Australia with
her husband, Captain Boyle, a son of the
Earl of Glasgow, is to marry Air-Marshal
Sir Hugh Trenchard. The first husband was
one of Lord Carmike’s aides. He fell in 1914.
David Low and his wife, with sister
Dorothy and her Spanish husband, have been
doing Paris on a joint honeymoon tour.
David found Paris all that the guide-books
hadn’t mentioned, especially in the matter
of language, which couldn’t be distinguished
from the Bowery patois when you asked
for provisions in a cafe. A plea to the
gargon “pour the a quatre” would bring a
proud demand to “Cut out that stuff, kid.
and gimme plain Amurkan.” The Yanks,
Low says, have apparently captured Paris
without firing a shot, and the day seems not
distant when there will •be spruikers and
soda-fountains on the steps of Notre Dame.
A quaint sign of the times is a Pocket
Reference Book (gold lettering on purple
linen cover) that comes with the compli-
ments of an eminent firm of family butchers.
One is supposed to carry it about, seemingly,
and read it *in tram or motor-car/ The
thoughtful tradesmen explain that they “had
in view the purpose of assisting our cus-
tomers in making up their minds when the
vexed question arises ‘What Shall We Have
for a Change?’ ” You refer to the pocket-
book, and your eye is fed with beautifully-
colored pictures of Galantines, Polonies,
Saveloys and Sausages. The variety of the
illustrations is charming. The coloring of
a Saveloy differs as widely from that of a
Strasbourg as the Strasbourg itself differs
from a Scotch Steak Sausage, or as the
S.S.S. differs from a Pork Galantine. Oh,
the pearly biscuit-color of a dish of Mixed
Sausages! One feels that one could wear
them for winter gown trimmings! Even
the contrast of black and white puddings is
not more thought-inspiring.
And the moral of the work of art is that
the demand for meat in the household has
diminished with the rise in prices, and the
growing toughness of chops and steaks. Men,
all but the very young, are beginning tp
avoid plain meat for their digestion’s sake.
So butchers are engaged in an earnest en-
deavor to dissuade the carnivorous animal
from taking to vegetarianism, while swarthy
alien fishmongers furnish financial reasons
why he shouldn’t become addicted to fish.
Martin, the young-
est son of artists
Arthur and Edith
Boyd, is the latest
addition to the list
of Australian poets.
His tome, “Retro-
spect,” will be ready
for reading at any
moment. Verse-
making did not in-
terfere with Mar-
tin’s war-work. He
was a pilot in the
Flying Corps for
years. Incidentally,
he is the brother of
artist Penleigh and
of Merrick, who does
beautiful work in
pottery.
John Longstaff, the painter, is on a visit
to the State to see his dad, who is 92. Of
course, John is also looking about him and
acquiring atmosphere and such-like very
portable- stock-in-trade.
By cable Lovie Mueller Cadorin sends word
that she won’t be able to come and sing in
Australia this year. Her sculptor husband
has had an accident: he slipped from a chair
on which he was standing and broke his
right arm in six places. This bad luck will
hang up his work for at least six months, so
the concert tour will have to wait.
Just before the students put away their
voices for a vacation, Mary Campbell is to
give a recital of Fritz Hart’s vocal com-
positions for the verdict of the Lyceum Club.
Isabel Ramsay writes from Paris of “the
most wonderful evening in her life.” Melba
provided it for her. Belle was one of the
select few who heard the Dame’s voice
through the wireless, and she insists that it
was “just wonderful.”
Walter Kirby has caused some consterna-
tion amongst his admirers by announcing a
trip to Italy and a lengthy sojourn in a
Trappist monastery. As usual, Rumor got
the story wrong, and reported that Walter
was to don the monkish garb for the term
of his natural life.
James Hay, the tenor of the new Gilbert
and Sullivan Opera Co., has left a vague
impression of somebody else on the minds
of many old-timers who saw him in “The
Yeomen of the Guard.” His first appear-
ance is a suggestion of how the late Wallace
Brownlow looked, as a young man, when he
took the stage in the tall boots, fair beard
and picturesque manner of Henri of Navarre.
Hay hasn’t the tall, imposing figure V>f
Brownlow. He shows slim, stockinged legs
and dainty shoes where Henry’s royal boots
used to be, and his beard is briefer and
darker than the popular baritone’s facial
disguise. But as he steps forward and
speaks to the Lieutenant of the Tower the
gait and incisive diction of Hay’s Colonel
Fairfax give him a Brownlow effect. The
beard is a factor, of course, but the utter-
ances and bearing of Hay have more to do
with it. He’s the gallant man. He dates
back to the supposed age of romance, and
has the air of unassuming theatricality which
is essential to stage love-making.
The Wesley College dramatic section
scored a success last week in “His Excel-
lency the Governor,” prefaced by a curtain-
raiser, “The Likes of Me.” The vice-regal
stage-setting would not have disgraced Oscar
Asche, headmaster Adamson noblv lending
his choicest table furnishings, including his
Georgian silver. The property-master was
in a ferment of anxiety over the off-chance
of a missing sugar-bowl or coffee-pot.


m
t
kMMMiMMmmvmm
■f
/'" t
mm
«
T*'*W
HW
: V
PS
/
re
m
»
r
si
V"?T
3»
a
**
m
>- *
STT'.:!
/SHF"I
A '
£ : ! V
*■•- *
Dili's
RS
3BP
Electric Light inside and outside
just by pressing a switch
The Western Electric Portable Sew-
ing Machine makes sewing a joy.
Ironing is cooler and far easier with
a Western Electric No. i Iron
Adapt electric light to every possible
need for your comfort and convenience
ALL of THIS COMFORT is possible because the
Western Electric BATTERY is big and strong
BECAUSE you only buy an electric lighting
plant once in a lifetime, be sure that the sav-
ing of a few pounds does not lead you into endless
expense and discomfort. The Battery is the heart
and soul of an electric lighting plant. Battery
trouble is ruinous and soon turns a lightirfg out-
fit into a burden because of continuous expense
for repairs and replacements.
Western Electric Power and Light is well-known through-
out the world as the plant with the powerful, trouble-
free battery. It has a capacity of 180 ampere hours, at'
the 8-hour rate of discharge. The intermittent rating is
288 ampere hours. This gives twice the capacity of most
other lighting plants—enough current to take care of
every requirement both for lighting and electric power
The Western Electric Battery is designed on a special
principle which successfully resists any possible tendency
to buckle. The plates are extra thick and longer life is as-
sured. In addition to these important features, the
Western Electric Battery is charged the right way—with
a tapering charge. This is the only safe method of charg-
ing a battery—a full charge at first which gradually
lessens in volume as the battery fills. That is why the
Western Electric Battery lasts longer, why users of West-
ern Electric Power a Light obtain complete battery
protection and freedom from trouble.
Western Electric Power and Light, because of its un-
usual power and strength, enables you to have every
electrical comfort, the same as in a city home. ’You
can have electric lights inside and outside the house, and
then have plenty of surplus current for using the many
delightful electric appliances of which several are shown
on the left. Another feature of the Western Electric
Plant is the 3Va h.p. Engine which can be used for
driving light machinery
All of these benefits are easy for you by using West-
ern Electric Power and Light because over 50 years of
electrical experience stand behind its construction.
Whether for country home, store, school, hall, hotel,
institute, hospital or church, don’t buy a lighting plant
without first investigating the superior construction and
capacity of Western Electric Power and Light.
BIG WESTERN ELECTRIC FEATURES %
BATTERY of 16 cells, capacity 180 ampere hours at
8-hour rate of discharge. Intermittent rating 288 ampere
hours. Battery is given a tapering charge and the engine
automatically stops when the charging is complete.
ENGINE--3 Va h.p. 4-cycle, air cooled, kerosene, driven.
Equipped with throttle governor, and automatic feed
for fire 1 and oil. GENERATOR —1500 Watts.
SWITCHBOARD -a simple control panel operates
the whole outfit and anyone can manage it.
Western Electric Power and Light is easy to buy. Ask
for 20-page Book from nearest of the following
WESTERN ELECTRIC CO. (Australia) LTD.
>92 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
AGENTS - C. R. Foster, 262 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. T. Tonks, Elizabeth St., Brisbane.
Newton, McLaren, Leigh Street, Adelaide. Medhurst E'ectric Co., 1 1 Argyle St., Hobart.
A D. Riley & Co. Ltd., Lambton Quay, Wellingon. Also at Christchurch, Auckland, Dunedin.
>
r
O
Hot crisp toast made right at the
table with a Western Electric Toaster
7#5' s/ '


Charles
Heidsiecks
Vintage 1911
CMflMit
HE PLUS ULTRA
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Ross
Field
Glasses
*
“Ross” Race Glasses are the
best the world produces.
The large aperture Stereo Prism Binoculars
made by the Ross factories give splendid defini-
tion over a specially large field of view. Their
brilliant illumination and large field makes
them obviously the most desirable race glass.
They focus almost instantaneously, and differ-
ence in eye-width may be corrected with one
movement, whilst difference in vision in the
two eyes is overcome by adjustable eye-pieces.
Hermetically sealed Ross Glasses are un-
affected by climatic conditions.
Fairfax 8 Roberts Ltd.,
Australian Agents for Ross Ltd.,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter St., Sydney.
•
/SL.
Oriental
Hotel
is accepted as Vic-
toria’s greatest
achievement in fashion-
able hotel service. It
is distinguished by its
sumptuous appoint-
ments, service and
environment, and offers
the tourist altogether
delightful accommoda-
tion.
Collins St. Melbourne.
m
mm,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Dayid Jones
SYDNEY
English mail to hand gives details of the
wedding of ex-Governor Gerry Strickland’s
daughter Mary, of the charming manner,
with Henry Ilorngold, of Eaton Place, Lon-
don. The brideeroom is tall and slight, and
said to be good-looking. The bride, who
had to play a leading part in Sydney through
the delicacy of the late Ladv Edeline, will
be best remembered in the role of Mar-
guerite, demonstrating father’s wheel for
the benefit of Red Cross spinners. The wed-
ding took place on July 2 at the Brompton
oratory, with some 400 guests to view it.
White satin and wonderful lace (worn
already by five brides) , with touches of gold,
formed the bridal array. A quartette of
bridesmaids in lace frocks and black tulle
hats had Cecilia Strickland at their head :
small Constance and Angus Drummond
guarded the bride’s train. A mauve single-
feather fan was the bridegroom’s gift to
each of the maids.
Before leaving the Prince had a day off at
Miss Eadith Walker’s, and took full advant-
age of it. Not satisfied with the after-dinner
amusement afforded by a jazz band, he and
the usual team played “Follow the man from
Cook’s,” and the Prince in the name role led
the others astray. The invaders even broke
into the kitchen, to the horror of the cook,
who fled.
Lieut. H. Harris Kent, R.N., of the Re-
nown, fell a victim to the charms of Thelma
Barnett, daughter of the Charles Barnetts of
Cremorne, and will return next year to a
wedding. The Prince duly offered his con-
gratulations to the pair at his dance aboard
the warship.
Some people are indignant at the idea of
buying tickets for the farewell to the de-
parting G.-G.; if you have to pay to get in,
they say, the New Rich will swamp the
place, and soldiers’ wives and mothers and
other such friends of Lady Helen’s won’t
get a look in.
’Twas .sweet-pea time at the Town Hall
last week with the Horticultural Society.
They grow ’em hardy these days—three big
blooms to a stem, with foliage like young
cabbage-leaves. Exhibits made a pink,
mauve and white hedge down the centre of
the hall; daffodils and other blooms (the
latter included three monster cauliflowers)
nestled under the galleries. Sir Walter
Davidson, in opening the show, sadly ad-
mitted his slight acquaintance with th(
growing of flowers, acknowledging Dame
Margaret (whose people cultivated daffodils)
as the gardener of his establishment. Dame
Margaret was more interested that after-
noon in the growing of sturdy young Aus-
tralians, with the help of day nurseries.
Enthusiasts rushed round with catalogues
and pencils, blocking the view of judges and
mere spectators. There were no riots when
W. Hatcher, of Brookvale, was awarded first
honors for a collection, and popular Dr. R.
Parker won the championship for a single
exhibit. The society’s president, librarian
Ifould, went off with second honors in the
former section. Saturday of this week the
Northern Suburbs Society introduces sweet-
peas, daffodils and stocks at the Chatswood
Town Hall. The Willoughby Red Cross
Society will tea the visitors for a considera-
tion, in aid of the funds of the Kuring-gai
Home for Consumptive Soldiers.
No wreaths hung out on the Brisbane for
last week’s naval wedding. The groom in
the case is Foley Knight, a lieut. of the
British navy attached to ours, who became
Maud Fane’s second husband. It was a very
quiet affair, with only a couple of witnesses
in support, the new Mrs. Knight wearing a
navy suit surmounted by a big squirrel cape
to keep the chill winds off.
The Musical Association treated the musi-
cal stars of the week to a tea-drinking at
Farmer’s. Chief amongst the constellation
was pianist Moiseiwitseh, accompanied by
wife Daisy Kennedy. She was in an original
suit of buff tone, long-coated, with rich pieces
of fringe in staccato form on the fronts, and
a longer vest of crimson-and-gold tissue; her
floppy brown millinery stabbed with a big quill.
Elias Breeskin left his Strad. at home, but
brought his charming bride, spring-like in
filmy lace flounces and silk crepe pink-
embroidered, with blue sash-ends and a shady
black chapeau. Tenor Paul Costello and
pianist Arthur Loesser had places in the sun.
President Reginald Gooud welcomed the
guests, and Henri Verbrugghen remarked
that for such “real artists and real musi-
cians” there would always be a light in the
window.
The Society of Women Painters jazzed in
fancy dress at Sargent’s to raise a piano for
the club rooms. Mrs. Ellis St. John and
Miss Will-Slade were the organisers. Prizes
of money and pictures were awarded, and
George Fuller handed the goods over. It was
a distinctly jolly show; even the somewhat
scratchy band helped to bring in the atmo-
sphere of Bohemia. As “The Spirit of the
Bush” Mrs. Rix Nicholas, in a leaf-green
gown and flowing head-dress of silver tissue,
guarded the destinies of a set of dainty,
charmingly-designed Australian flowers and
sturdier gum-trees and staghorns, and inci-
dentally secured the prize for the most
original set. Mary Edwards artistically
and completely represented the Studio in her
lemon-toned frock set in a gold frame, with
the studio curtains as a train. Feminine
•interest centred in a gown of 300 years ago,
worn by Miss Coutts. It is an amber silk,
patterned in violets and gold thread, that has
stood unblemished the passing of the cen-
turies. There are no modern fastenings—-
merely ribbons at neck, waist-line and sleeves
—and it is lined with unbleached calico. We
line them with silk nowadays, and they
barely last the season. Colonel Bruche
accompanied his good-looking wife, and some
other military and naval men . and their
women-folk were present.
St. Alban’s Liberal Catholic Church was
decked in fine feathers last week when
Dorothy, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
W. E. Shaw, said “I will” to the Hon. Julian
Adrian Mazel, an auxiliary bishop of the
church, who hails from Holland. Dr. Lead-
beater, regionary Bishop for Australia, tied
the knot. The bride, in rose-point lace over
aceordeon-pleated georgette, and wearing Mrs.
John Mackay’s veil and wreath, was handed
over by Mr. Mackay. Her Uni. chum, Dorothy
Tarrant, looking coyly from white satin
and billows of white net, and grasping a
bouquet in Uni. colors, stood by her, white
Oscar Kollerstrom supported the Bishop.
The jubilations were at Mrs. Mackay’s,
Kirribilli; and the future home is to be on
the same water-front. One of the ethereal
souls at the ceremony confided that she
could almost see the auras of the bride and
bridegroom blending.
“Life is too strenuous in Sydney; I’m
just dying to get back to my little bit of
comfort in the East,” says Mrs. Norman
Lowe —she used to be Lulu Burns, daughter
of J. F. Burns, who was once Henry Parkes’s
Treasurer. Lulu’s husband, who hails from
Mudgee, is in the Irrigation Department of
Siam, and since she went there on her
marriage two and a half years ago she has
kept the cradle full with a daughter born
on a Christmas day and a son on the Prince
of Wales’s birthday. She returns this week.
Sydney girl Ailsa Craig is now touring
England as. Jo in the stage story of Louisa
Alcott’s “Little Women,” and is shortly to
appear in London in a play specially written
for her. Ailsa is better known in Sydney as
the business-like and
tactful secretary of
the A.S.C. Comforts
Fund. She went to
England to continue
war-work with her
parents and sisters*
and then managed to
talk theatrical man-
agers •into giving her
a chance, although
she had never played
anything but ama-
teur parts before.
No doubt Ailsa’s
pile of dusky hair,
her pansy-soft eyes,
and a smile like a
Sydney sky ha u
something to do
with the picnic-hat
of Jo falling upon her.
Farmer’s spring mannequin parade pre-
dicted a season of frills and jumper suits
and vivid colorings; and anatomy students
are to make further study of the feminine
elbow, as sleeves will climb from the funny-
bone upwards. Fashion also leans to
frocks and blouses buttoned up the back,
so lone ladies are in danger of having to
appeal to the postman. Voiles played a big
part in. the display. A pale-green gown,
with white frills spoke coolness, and a cherry
ribbon at the waist of a powder-blue frock
was smart. Malines lace, tucks and white voile
are the component parts of many blouses.
Colored Palm Beach skirts and the same
shade in voile blouses are ordered for youth.
Freak gowns are few: the worst example at
the parade was something in the Pierrette
mode fabricated of white and black wool.
Nina Holt, formerly of Brisbane, is to
marry Wilton McCourt, second son of late
Speaker McCourt, of N. S. Wales. The
bride-elect, who plays among the first violins
of the State Orchestra, is a niece of Mrs.
Chetwynd, who for over 40 years taught the
young folk of the northern capital the mys-
teries of pianoforte technique.
A September wedding of interest will be
that of Noelie Buchanan with Lieut. Boris
Millar, late of the Imperial Russian Navy,
who with his mother, a Russian aristocrat,
left for Canada when the Bolsheviks ran
amok. The petite bride-elect’s mother was
with her family in Europe when war broke
out. They were all studying music, which art
proved an asset to their efforts for Red Cross
funds in London later on. Moondani, Sutton
Forest, where the Buchanan country residence
is, will be closed after the ceremony, as a motor
tour to inspect Killarney station is arranged
prior to Mrs. Buchanan and her youngest
flapper visiting Java. The future home of
the Millar pair will be Paris, where an
appointment in the service awaits the young
man.
This, is Stanley McKay, whose burning
ambition is to enthrone Shakspeare in the
mind of young Australia. That some of the
immortal Bard is soaking in was proved by
the youngster who, when torn apart from
the dark-headed fellow he had in deadly holts,
exclaimed : “Garn, Shylock ! Lent me stink-
ies on Monday and expect to get glassies
for ’em on Saturday!” The school had been
to McKay’s “Mer-
chant of Venice,” and
the receiver of the
stinky was imbued
with the truly Christ-
ian idea of paying
his debt without in-
terest if he couldn’t
get out of paying it
altogether. In pre-
war days Stanley
toured Australia and
Maori 1 a n d with
theatrical companies;
and while he was at
the Front he staged
“Henry V.” and “The
Merchant” with an
entire Digger cast.
All his military leave
he spent in Stratford-
on-Avon attending the Summer and Birth-
day Festivals. But what interested him
most were the Shakspearean matinees given
in London by Ben Greet’s company. Assisted
by a liberal subsidy from the London County
Council, Ben Greet was making the England
of Shakspeare’s time a live thing for the
London school kiddies. Then McKay had his
inspiration. He got back to Australia, inter-
viewed Education Director Peter Board, and
with every blessing save a monetary one
from the Department he set to work to pre-
sent Shakspeare to the schools and colleges.
He opened at Chatswood with “The Mer-
chant” and already 30,000 kiddies have seen
at least one play of the evergreen Will’s.
The Victorian Education Department then
sent the McKay players an invitation to come
to Melbourne, but early this month they re-
turned to Sydney to stage “Henry V.,” as
that play is set here for the Secondary
Examination in November.
Mrs. Norton Russell’s grand-daughter, Bul-
lock by name, will swear the conventional
“I will” next month to one of the Ashfield
Patricks. The girl in the case is a descend-
ant of the well-known Montague Levy family.
Mrs. Luscombe Newman, of Darling Point,
was one of the few to have the run of the
Renown entertainments, the doctor of the
sporting Prince being a cousin. The New-
man chick was under age to participate, but
her time will come in London, where she is
to be “presented” after being polished off.
Collaroy station, which was bought last
week by P. H. Morton for subdivision, has
been owned for years by members of the
Clive family. They are direct descendants
of that Robert Clive who defeated Suraja
Dowlah, the author of the Black Hole of
Calcutta atrocities. The Clives live mostly
in England, though one of them married a
daughter of Manager Maher while jackerooing
on the place, and another is still in Sydney.
His mother was an Australian —a sister of
Spofforth, the bowler. The station lies be-
tween Cassilis and Merriwa, and was famous
under the Maher regime for its stud sheep.
Elliott Gruner has won the Wynne prize
for his “Spring Frosts” —a commission which
greatly interested those who saw it at the
Society of Artists exhibition last year. It
is a poetic peep at country life, in which a
group of thoughtful cows in the foreground
do not damp the sunlit atmosphere by breath-
ing soft warm moisture upon the air, as less
well-behaved cows are apt to do on a frosty
morning. Gruner takes his own recreation
in music, and haunts sonata evenings and
symphony concerts. So far he has wooed no
other muses; but one can never tell the
future.
Pianist Moiseiwitseh played four concertos
with the State Orchestra during the week.
“The Emperor” was done so well that how
the pianist “missed” in the lesser works of
the Moonlight and Apassionata Sonatas is
quite unfathomable. The adagio of the con-
certo, with the beautifully-played orchestral
portion, was surely amongst the most perfect
things ever heard in the Town Hall. The
Tschaikowsky Concerto in B Flat Minor was
also a great performance, and he added a solo,
to satisfy demands of a leech-like audience.
Madame and small Tanya formed an inter-
ested family group, who left the hall flower-
laden. The Barry-Felton sculling race fouled
with the second concerto concert; neverthe-
less the attendance was still good. Ver-
brugghen’s forces gave a great performance
of Rimsky-Korsakow’s “Scheherazade,” with
its Arabian nights’ atmosphere, £ut the audi-
ence failed to realise it.
Roy Agnew was (or should have been)
a proud Australian when Moiseiwitseh
played his two pieces, “Deirdre’s Lament”
and its antithesis, "The Dance of the Wild
Men,” at his final recital. The “Dance”
receiving a great ovation, the pianist rose
and joined in the applause. It was a pretty
compliment to the composer; for didn’t it
say, “Roy, these people are clapping you—
I’ve nothing to do with it”?
The Mosman Musical Society is going to
play “La Fille du Tambour Major” for the
benefit of Johnny Wallace, so long connected
with J.C.W. productions. Though he has
passed the eightieth milestone, Johnny
played Balbini and stage-managed during a
just-finished season of the opera by the
society. A birthday the old actor has next
month comes in just handy.
Society amateurs have been mumming at
the Playhouse for the benefit of the Royal
Alexandra Hospital'for Children. “Belinda,”
the story of a flirty grass-widow, filled the
greater part of each evening, and a pretty
trifle, “The Maker of Dreams,” had pro-
ducer Frederick Ward in the role of Pierrot,
and Rosamund Lumsdaine, who tiptoed
round in unaccustomed ballet skirts, with
unusual lingerie showing beneath, as his
Pierrette. The ladies mostly weren’t elo-
cutionists, but lenient audiences forgave and
surrounded Barbara Knox, Rosamund Lums-
daine and Molly Owen with garden stuff.
Ernest Watt was quite exuberant as the
casual wandering husband of Belinda.
Brisbane megaphones:—
The G.-G. and Lady Helen, on making their fare-
well call, were met by the Lieut.-Governor, the
Mayor and the representatives of various societies.
The Caledonian Pipe Band made haggis noises, and
blew the visitors out to Government House. Later
Sir Ronald presented the King's colors, and hung
medals and 1914-15 stars on a number of returned
men ; and there was a civic reception. At a conver-
sazione at the Royal Geographical Society’s rooms
his Ex. sketched the probable emotions of botanist
Joseph Banks if that good Australian came back
from the shades and saw hosts of dying ring-
barked trees. The speaker guessed he would “won-
der what destructive beasts had been at them.” The
Red Cross Society tea-ed and farewelled Lady Helen,
who, after a pleasant half-hour, hurried off to
meet the committee of the Corinda Infants’ Home.
This hamlet has been shaken out of the social
depression following on the departure of the Prince-
ling by the Medical Congress. Mrs. A. B. Carvosso
and Mrs. Halford, two smart matrons, fed the visi-
tors on Mrs. Carvosso’s lawns; there have been teas
in the Botanical Gardens and a reception at Parlia-
ment House at which the returned soldiers’ band made
music, and the Munro-Fergusons and their A.D.C.,
and the Lennons and their A.D.C., all our local
celebrities and a host of visitors attended.
Until Brisbane gets its Town Hall, all the big
dances will be held at the Primary Producers’ store
at Bulimba. The Medical Congress dance was held
there, and was a huge success. All the pillars were
transmogrified into gum-trees, with festoons of green-
ery looping them together.
On Wednesday afternoon the Mayor and aldermen
lured the Medical Congress aboard the Koopa, and
took it as far as the Pile Light, with music and
afternoon-tea. The Mayoress looked well in a nattier-
blue coat and skirt, with toque to match.
The annual ball for the Mater Miseri-
cordise Hospital at North Sydney happens
at the Warringah Hall on the 21st.
There are to be novel features about
a fancy-dress ball at the Town Hall on
November 18 in aid of Havilah, the
Church of England Home at Wahroonga. It
is to be a sort of “cradle-to-the-grave” affair.
The frisking starts at 7, when the children
hop off; at a later hour the rest of the
family may join the jazz. Dame Margaret
Davidson will pilot a children’s fancy set.
September 18 is the date of the opening of
Havilah, and the vice-regal folk are tc
journey to Wahroonga to help.
A note from Miss Brewster
No, I really wasn’t the first woman president of
the Naturalists’ Society of N. S. Wales. Miss Le
Plastrier was; I was the first woman councillor.
What an increase there has been in the number
of women in the fields of science! I remember the
fear and trembling which I experienced (at least,
beforehand) when I read a little paper before the
Linnaean Society of N. S. Wales some years ago.
The anxiety was keener on account of the know-
ledge that I was the first woman to do so. But
the majority of scientific men are very fair and
generous to women workers. Since that time several
younger women have read papers on research work
done; finally Miss Irwin Smith was awarded a
research scholarship of the Society, and this year
Miss Marjorie Collins was awarded one for research
in botany.


HARDY BROTHERS LTD
JEWELLERS
Whole Pearl Necklaces.
: | '
' > ■> , ’ -• t,'
SSI
\
S
Inspection is invited
of the Company’s
choice selection of
whole Pearl Neck-
laces.
Prices range from
£2O to £3OOO.
SYDNEY:
13 Hunter Street.
BRISBANE:
116-118 Queen Street.
MELBOURNE:
298 Collins Street.
LONDON:
32 Old Burlington Street.
HARRINGTONS’
METALLURGICAL WORKS
and LABORATORIES.
ASSAYERS of Alloys, Ores, Fuels, Metallurgical Products, etc.
Technical Representatives in transactions of Ores and
Metals.
REFINERS of Lemels, Gold and Silver Bullion, Optical and Dental
Scrap, Spent Baths, Stripping Solution, Gilders
Solution. Specialists in the refinement of Platiniferous
Bullion and Residues.
SMELTERS of Sweeps, Polishings, Handwash, Silverers’ Blankets
and any material containing preciqus metals.
MANUFACTURERS of “Perfection” DENTAL ALLOY, Dental
Golds, Solders, Platinised Wires and Metallurgical
requisites for the DENTAL PROFESSION.
(By arrangement) of Johnson’s “Scales Brand” Silver
Nitrate and Gold Chloride for GLASS SILVERERS,
ELECTRO-PLATERS, PROCESS ENGRAVERS.
SUPPLIERS of Fine and Standard Gold, Fine and Standard Silver,
Fine Platinum and Platinum Alloys, Electrolytic
Copper, Cyanide, etc., for MANUFACTURING
JEWELLERS.
“THE INDUSTRIAL
METALLURGISTS”
AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND.
386 George street, Sydney.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
144 Queen Street, Auckland:
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Works and Laboratories: Booth and Trafalgar Streets, Annandale, N.S.W,
Re The English, Scottish and Australian
Bank, Limited,
* and
The London Bank of Australia, Limited.
CIRCULAR TO CUSTOMERS.
AS you will no doubt have observed from the announcements in the
press, arrangements have been made to bring about, if possible
a complete fusion of interests of The English, Scottish and
Australian Bank, Limited, and The London Bank of Australia, Limited.
In this connection I desire to assure the Depositors and Customers
generally of both Institutions that we have as our objective—
Greater Strength and Greater Efficiency.
We naturally desire to retain the goodwill of the whole of the
existing connections, and the commitments of both Banks to their
customers respectively will be punctiliously carried out.
We shall endeavor to conserve the personal and business relations
between the Executives and their Clients that have so materially
contributed to their mutual satisfaction and mutual profit in the past.
The customers of both Banks will under the completed arrangements
have greater facilities for the transaction of their operations; and in
seeking the retention of their business I can, with confidence, assure them
that no change of policy is contemplated, other than adding, wherever
possible, to the services that have been available to the public under the
old regime.
The Bank will in the near future be directly represented in Western
Australia and Tasmania, and thus be in a position to place at its
customers' disposal its own services throughout the whole of the
Commonwealth of Australia, including the Northern Territory.
ERNEST O’SULLIVAN.
Acting General Manager of the English, Scottish & Australian Bank, Ltd.
THE WHOLE OF THE PRESENT ISSUE OF
UNDERWRITTEN BY THE HONORABLE
STREET, HOBART, SHAREBROKER.
150,000 SHARES HAS BEEN
L. J. CLIFFORD, COLLINS-
PROSPECTUS of
HUME PIPE COMPANY
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1915, of the State of Victoria.)
Nominal Capital : £500,000, divided into 500,000
Shares of £1 each.
150,000 shares are now offered for subscription, payable 5/- per share on appli-
cation, 5/- per share on allotment, balance in calls not exceeding 5/-
each per share, the first not to be made until after the expiration of
three months from the date of allotment, and the second not to be
made until after six months from the date of allotment.
210,000 shares, fully paid up to £1 each, to be allotted and issued to the
Vendor Company or its nominees as part consideration for the transfer
to this Company of the business and assets hereinafter mentioned.
140,000 shares to be held in reserve.
500,000
DIRECTORS.
WALTER REGINALD HUME. Esq., 421 Collins Street, Melbourne, Managing Director.
Lieutenant-General Sir JOHN MONASII. G.C.M.G., 1v.C.8., Collins-House, Melbourne.
The Honorable LEWIS JOSEPH CLIFFORD, Collins Street. Hobart.
ROBERT NETTLEFOLD, Esq., 0.8. E., Macquarie Street. Hobart.
ALEXANDER JOHN McLACHLAN, Esq., Pirie Street, Adelaide.
BANKERS:
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE, LIMITED, Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOLICITOR:
ARTHUR PHILLIPS, 60 Queen Street, Melbourne.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
Colonial Mutual Buildings, 421 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The company has been formeu for the purpose (amongst other things) of acquir-
ing as a going concern the business of concrete-pipe manufacturers and general con-
crete manufacturers now carried on by Hume Brothers Cement Iron Company, Limited,
at Adelaide. Melbourne, Hobart and elsewhere in the Commonwealth of Australia.
CONSIDERATION:
As consideration for the sale of the said business the company is to pay the vendor
commnv £2lO 000 in satisfaction of the value of assets over liabilities of the said busi-
ness such sum to be paid and satisfied by the allotment and issue to the vendor com-
pany or its nominees of 210,000 shares in the capital of the company all fully paid up
to £1 each.
The particulars of the assets as at 30th June, i 920, are as under: . .
Land and buildings at Keswick (S.A.), Murray Bridge (S.A.), Manbrynong (Vmtona) and
Shares°'cis,ooo in English company operating the Hume patents outside of Australia) . . 15,000
Pash at credit of Bank of Adelaide, Limited, London .. .. •• •• ••
Amount (balance) due on patent rights sold to N.S.W. Government and materials supplied
Ptot, machinery! stock and materials on hand in S.A., Victoria, Tasmania and Queens-
land .. • • ••
Sundry debtors in above States . . . . • • • • • • • * -m? * .
Patent tS righte bo the S “Hu S me” Patents for' Australia, excluding the State of New South
Wales and the Federal Territory of Canberra _
22,000
6,690
69,974
38,832
5,000
100,000 0 0
£295,246 0
tt a Titt ns at 30th June, 1920, including £24,000 of accumulated profits reserved
LIAB by "m cornpanv for distribution amount shareholders and the sum of £lOOO as
bonuses to certain employees of the old company, and the prolusion ot £l5OO
anticipated income-tax levies •• •• ° ’
0
Surplus Assets over Liabilities
£234,738' 0 0
OF THF TOTAL ISSUE OF 150,000 FOR THE COMMONWEALTH APPROXI-
MATELY 250.000 SHARES HAVE ALREADY BEEN APPLIED FOR BUT IN'
ACCORDANCE WITH THE UNDERWRITERS’ AGREEMENT A MINIMUM
D?SH ARES MUST BE ALLOTTED TO. EACH STATE. CONSEQUENTLY
SHARES WILL BE ALLOTTED ON A PRO RATA BASIS. INTENDING
APPLICANTS ARB REQUESTED TO APPLY PROMPTLY AS. OWING TO
THE ISSUE HAVING BEEN CONSIDERABLY OVER APPLIED FOR, THE
TIIRECTORS INTEND CLOSING APPLICATIONS AT AN EARLY DATE.
COPIES OF CATALOGUE AND PROSPECTUS MAY BE OBTAINED FROM
THE COMPANY. APPLICATIONS AND INQUIRIES SHOULD BE
ADDRESSED TO THE HUME PIPE COMPANY, 421 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.


Learn to Draw
T?\
There’s Money
in the
Pen.
« t
''h
The abowe
is the tit
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
uvoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
AVeston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—•
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.’’
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing',
1 Union House, Cr. George & Grosvenor Sts..
SYDNEY.
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
BRITISH
ftuE
Perfection
piur rubber.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist. Southampton, England
1
STYLE
WITH EASE
A;'be”’ Shoes are specially constructed,
correctly designed and carefully modelled
to give comfort and render satisfactory
service.
Illustrated is a high-grade -Patent Derby
Dal., in a smart bade-to-order style.
Price 67/6
In Tan Willow Calf .... 00/-
Stoeked in half-sizes and narrow, medium
and wide fittings.
Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
«V.
SB6
The GBD claim to perfection is
not an empty one.
It is based on the care with which
the materials are selected, the
expert skill of the manufacturers
and the exactitude of fitting and
finish.
This claim is endorsed by thou-
sands of happy smokers who find
in the genuine French briarwood
GBD the solution of all smoke-
problems.
Get a GBD to-day.
Many shapes. Obtainable everywhere.
FOR SALE.
AERIAL ORE TRANSPORT SYSTEMS.
1. Length, 4500 feet, wooden towers, capacity
40 tons per hour.
2. Lengths, 2700 feet, .steel towers, capacity
25 tons per hour.
General Condition Good.
Apply—
MT. BISCHOFF CO., Waratah, Tas.
Missing: Friends.
f EORGE NEWMAN, son of James and
Mary Newman, formerly of Hurst-
ville, later of Canley Vale. Money awaiting
your claim. Communicate
A. GILROY,
35 Day Street, Leichhardt.
TF the next of kin of CHARLES SILVER, late of
-*- Cairns, in the State of Queensland, Freeholder,
who wus born at Reckinghall, in the County of Suf-
folk, England, and who died at Cairns aforesaid on
the twenty-ninth day of October, 1919, or in case
of their death, their representatives, will communi-
cate with the undersigned within nine calendar
months from the date hereof they may hear of
something of advantage. Any information concern-
ing them will be thankfully received.
Hated this Fourteenth day of August 1920.
MacDONNELL k HAMLYN HARRIS,
Solicitors, Cairns, Queensland
London Agents: Leader. Plunkett k Leader,
Solicitors, 76 Newgate Street, London, 1 England.
We Desire
to Buy
PLATINUM, at £lB per ounce.
OLD GOLD and SILVER, fot
Melting Purposes.
DIA3IONDS, PEARLS and other
Fine Gems.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd., Sydney*
Legal Notice.
PURSUANT to a Judgment of the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Townsville in an action by
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED the Administrator of the lands and goods
of CHARLES SILVER late Of Cairns in the State of
Queensland Freeholder (who was born at Reckinghall
in the County of Suffolk England) against MARY
SILVER all persons claiming to be next of kin of
the said Charles Silver who died on the twenty-ninth
day of October one thousand nine hundred and nine l
teen at Cairns aforesaid are required to come in on
or before nine calendar months from the date hereof
and prove their claims at the Registry of the said
Court at Townsville and in default thereof they will
be peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the said
Judgment.
Dated this Fourteenth day of August 1920.
(n.s.) JAS. COMERFORD, Registrar.
Messrs. MacDohnell & Hamlvn Harris,
Solicitors for Plaintiff, Cairns.
Townsville Agents: Roberts Leu & Barnett,
Solicitors,. Townsville.
OSTER Bulldog Screwing Dies cut metal like
a lathe tool. They make a sharp, clear thread
easily and quickly on steel or galvanised pipe
that is tough and difficult to screw.
This will be demonstrated to you, on request, by our
DISTRIBUTORS:—
Cl'.as. Atkins & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., sertli.
John Danks & Son Pty, Ltd., Sydney.
John Danks & Son Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Parke Sf Lacy Co. Ltd., Sydney.
It. L. Serutton & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Swans, Ltd., Sydney.
Frodc. Ash, Ltd., Newcastle.
Paul & Gray, Ltd., Newcastle.
A. Goninan & Co., Ltd., Newcastle.
T. J. Cane & Co., Ltd., Hobart.
McPherson’s Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
McPherson’s Pty., Ltd., .Melbourne.
Engineering Supply Co. of Aus., Ltd.,
Brisbane.
And many other Machinery, Hardware and Plumbers’ Merchants, or by our
Factory Representative: CHARLES WRIGHT, 16 Hunter Street, Sydney.
SPARE DIES AND PARTS CARRIED IN STOCK.
The
STER
MANUFACTURING CO.
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.S.A.,
Screwing Tackle Specialists.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
No Luck: Send addressed envelope, and
the name will be forwarded.... Old P.: The Moisei-
witsch estimate is two months late.... Expo: Your
Muse wants massaging YDI: Thank you. It
pretty well agrees with a prescription already offered.
. ...K.E.F.: Read the article again. If you are of
the same opinion then get your eyes attended t 0....
J.G. (and about 147 others) : This is an Australian
newspaper; not a manual of Irish history. For the
Lord’s sake, give us a rest. ... Dunrobin: As dull
as the South Pole in winter.... Oliver B.: “In the
Back Yard” has something almost'Homeric about it:
But determined to beat the dirty hound;
Into grips, and both fell heavily to the ground.
“Time, time,” or you will lose the five-pound!
. ...M.F. (Brisbane): We suspect that there was a
time when “come” rhymed with “home,” but it was
a long while ago A.G.J.: One may d 0....
J.D.W.: Don’t quite see why he’s a “silly blatant
bounder” to say “Hullo, Ted!” Shawd: Hasn’t
the strength to push in. .. . Wangi: Don’t remember
it. • • .D.P.M.: Not up....N.G.: “Simonie” doesn’t
do it... .Fragrant: The condition of your cat does
not call for lyric effort... .R.C. (Sydney): Not
enough there.... Stephanotis: One might d 0....
P.M.: “Faery and Pixie” fails Woodicus: Pretty
dull The Serpent: “Council” is too thin Nell:
Try it on one of the heavy dailies—the heavier the
better.... Duzy: No room for dreary dissertations on
Polish politics. And you prove to be a rotten
prophet,.. .A. L.L.: Yes, you’ve got it right.... Med-
way : You juggle with words very well; but they
don’t mean much. .. .C.L.: All the same, the Age
was wrong in saying that Starke, J-., applied the new
rule for the first time. It was the first time in Mel-
bourne, certainly; but the rule—which enables the
Judge or Court to state orally his or its conclusions,
and publish the reasons by handing them to the
clerk sitting in court—-was first availed of in
Sydney, when several judgments in different cases
were disposed of in a few minutes.... Sodium C.!
“Jilted” hovered on the edge Riv.: “Cobby”
hasn’t much of a kick.... Dyer: “Tall” —“core.” Is
it an ear you wear at the side of your head or a
cabbage?. ... Horse: Four lines, and a manufactured
word to make a' rhyme ! Duncan C.: None good.
enough. Some fail from poverty of thought; others
from lack of skill in expression. See how that
third line of the sonnet bumps.,. .W.H.P.: Hopeless.
. ...M.W.: The clothes are quite good enough; but
the lady within is so familiar... .C.D.T.: “Yen*
turer” rather commonplace; the other falls over its
feet in the second verse arid never recovers.... John
0.: /“Love” is very du11... ..Eneas: Yes, beaten
again.... M.8.P.: “Visions” has a chance....
Rpbbie: Not enough in any of them... . Duncrag: It
is as gay as a moulting crow.... Stephen- S.: Not
enough interest left in it. But it’s neat Albert
D.: “Corpse” is under weight.... E.L.K.: It has
been done so often that our w.p.b. now writes things
like that itself 1.M.: Don’t know what she’ll
say on the Reckoning Day ; but if she says it in as
unmusical verse as that she won’t be allowed in the
choir... .L.M.D.: Might be put much more convinc-
inlv. . . . Bungawalbyn : May later on; at present it
is impracticable V. 11.: Not a thrill in your
haunted camp. . . .lan: No music in it. . . .Cynthia R.:
No need for apologies. You’re nearly there. .. .
R. : Roughly Made Doggerel Wood J.: Too
many remarks too obviously dropped into “Dawn”
to make the rhymes. Of course they all do that, but
you don’t see them doing it. , Put a bit more work
into “Joy” and resubmit. . . .L.L.W.: No, thanks. . . .
S. : “Spring cometh,” but thank Heaven it
doesn’t bring many worse poems.... Anna Strong:
Too late. ...Kala: A couple of the verses will do. . ..
S.L.S.: So weak it had to be helped to the tomb. .. .
Buddhan Poet: Get your hair cut.... Rosemary:
Well written; but you don’t make us believe it’s
true.... Athol: Overburdened with b100d.... Myall
O’M.: Don’t care for it John B.: “Rector’s Pipe”
is too soothing altogether Juvenisenex: Been said
many times Faith: Well, we’ll add Charity, and let
it pass without another word.... Scottie: There’s an
idea in “Going West.” Try it again E.M.K.: Too
thin. ... Vril: “Afterglow” is nearest; but it is
rather clumsy.... J.C.: Interest too local, anyhow.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
1.5.: Apparently the postal counter-clerk is a
severed head on a pike. The lady is angular and flat
in the Egyptian manner. Behind the clerk we see
the masts of anchored galleys—or are they account-
books on a shelf ?... . Joseph J.: That air’s stale
n0w.... Bill B.: Stare and stagger, bottles and a
loose collar —the old drunk recipe, but no humor.
Study 0n.... Harry P.: Nothing there for u 5....
W.0.F.: Good try. . . .M.R.A.: Muddy production in
wrong ink.... J.0.R.: Can’t drink with y0u....
P.E.K.; Some humor and-animation in the deputa-
tion, but the thing doesn’t capture us. . . .N.E.J.:
Too heavy.... A.S.P.: The gentleman who has been
rocked is strangely calm and seems to be pleased
with the bump on his forehead. .*.. F.C.K.: There
is very little demand for nightmares.... Cuthbert
B.: The sailor and the girl are still and gloomy.
Too much ink has been lavished on them.... L.P.:
You can’t draw, and the gag is nearly as old as
America... .A.E.D.: Your drunk is an old pattern
not used n0w.... R.1.G.: Mrs. Mulvaney looks as if
she had taken root in the field of sprouting hatpins.
You are "n farmer.
“Suevic” (London) : Australian Anglican
prelates visiting this Cold Country for the
Lambeth Conference have caused a flutter in
some circles by non-conforming to the 49
Articles of the episcopal tailor. Variety in
headgear and the discarding of gaiters caused
the clerical fashion-experts to rub their eyes ;
but the climax came when one episcopal
visitor sauntered along to Lambeth smoking
a briar pipe. Pipes don’t go with gaiters.
Even bagpipes would clash with them.'
It was a tight go between Bill and Joe,
A wager for a five-pound note;
Joe was so, just all blow,
And Bill knew he had no hope.
Out in the back yard they went,
To try their muscle and skill;
The referee well knew what it meant,
For it was going to be a tidy mill.
“Go!” Now the fun begins. Joe got the first one in,
Landed well home here, got Bill a beaut on the
ear
That caused him to make a grin;
But there was nothing more to fear.
“Time!” “Go!” Then they went at it with a rush,
Down went Joe with an under-cut;
That made him cuss, and blush;
A second landed him fair on the nut.
“Time!” “Go!” Joe was looking a bit sick this
round,


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cubines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
pri Fa to Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric T.ifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO,, Ltd..
Tel.—City -4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, SEPTEMBER 22,
VENTURA.
10,01)0 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
T H E North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regularly to:
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, AIACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Byron Bay; and the beautiful Tweed River.
Combination! Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TOUR FARES.—Sydney-Brisbane, via
Byron Bay: Ist, £6/16/-; 2nd, £4/16/6. Sydney-
Brisbane, via Grafton: Ist, £6/16/-; 2nd, £4/7/6.
For particulars apply :
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. : Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 233 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to .Tune 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 796,655 10 0
Reserve Fund .. .. . . . . 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq. ; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HKAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Brandies —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerloa, Canada, Bouth Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up . . .. .. .. £1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. . . .. .. £200,000
Directors: HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
AVOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (204 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 157 Places throughout New South AVales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the AVorld.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. ... £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,600,000)
Paid-up .. .. . . 1,496,666
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,646,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping, etc.
Canad i&n-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. TAHITI, September 16.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, October 14.
And every 28 days thereafter.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World—the Canadian Rockies —is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grnnd Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park. Niagara Falls, etc.
R.M.S. TOFUA, from Wellington, September 16.
R.M.S. MARAMA, from Wellington, October 5.
And every 28 days thereafter.
Connecting Steamers from Sydney Sept. 9 and Sept. 30.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
■ Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
White Star Line
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Australia to London and Liverpool via
South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES ~i 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCDES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
MIDTIADES 8,000 tons
MARATHON 8,000 tons
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson', Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Directors
£4,765,700
3,375,000
4,765,700
£13,806,400
The Hon. Sir Charles K. • MacKellar, li.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Ksq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Kobert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Es <l- „
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street. 15. C.
351 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London-,
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn, on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
Rt JlaaP:
S', flatted
its
JattHlMralta
SYDNEY. ■
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking* Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2802 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor July Ist, 1920 Governor
Shipping:.
Osaka ShosenKaisha
(OTS.K. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service Manila,
Hong Kong, Japan and the East. Tran-
shipment cargo accepted for all Eastern
ports, Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhipping at Japan.
BUSHU MARTI, middle Sept.
KOSOKU MARU, end Sept.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
of Australia,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
40 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: City 4166, Six Lines.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide.
INTERSTATE STEAMSH P SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOK MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE.
*Tranships at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
(Carries Ist, 2nd, and 3rd-class passengers.
tCarries Ist and 2nd-class passengers.
§Carries Ist and 3rd-class passengers.
Huddarf Parker L|m
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE.- —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address:
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheatli Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire 'Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


AmiiNeiiieiim.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
J IVO L I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.30.
ROBERT COURTNEIDGE’S ENGLISH COMEDY
COMPANY in
THE MAN FROM TORONTO.
Plans ait Nicholson’B and the Tivoli. %
"J-IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents Miss LEE WHITE,
London’s Idol, in
BRAN PIE.
Prices as usual.
HE K MA.I E S T VS. SYI>N K V.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 4.
.J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW ENGLISH COMEDY
COMPANY in
YES, UNCLE. .
A Musical Comedy in two acts.
Plans at Paling’s. •
Clt 1 T K It IO N T II E A T It IS. SYDNEY.
Lessees: J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Direction J. .v. N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE MUSICAL COMEDY SUPREME,
IRENE.
Plans at Paling's.
"J" HEAT It E R O Y A 1,,
SYDNEY.
Direction AUSTRALIAN PLAYS LTD.
A BIGGER SUCCESS THAN EVER.
THE BOSS COOKIE,
The most humorous Australian comedy ever written.
10,000 LAUGHS NIGHTLY.
Plans at Paling’s.
PALACE THEAT It E, SYDN IS Y.
Lessees: J. & N. TAIT.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF TILLY OF BLOOMSBURY.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 4,
THE BLINDNESS OF VIRTUE,
A play in four acts by Cosmo Hamilton.
Plans at Nicholson’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
The playhouse, Sydney.
Castlereagh (Street, near Fire Station.
Lessees: J. N. TAIT. Direction GERALD GRIFFIN.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NIGHT, SEPT 4.
Direct from America, GERALD GRIFFIN, the
Famous Irish Singing-actor in
THE ROSE OF KILLARNEY.
Box Plans at Nicholson’s. Popular Prices.
u
N I O N PICTURE T II IS A T It IS S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS.
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
KING’S THEATRE. MELIt<>O It N E.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
JOHN D. O’HARA in
THREE WISE FOOLS.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan s.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
NEXT SATURDAY. SEPTEMBER 4.
Revival of GILBERT & SULLIVAN OPERAS.
lOLANTHE.
THEATRE ROYAL.
NEXT SATURDAY, SEPT. 4. MARIE TEMPEST and
GRAHAM BROWNE in 11. H. Davies’s notable play,
OUTCAST.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees: BEN & JOHN FULLER, LTD.
Direction ALLAN WILKIE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
ALLAN WILKIE AND COMPANY, including
FREDISWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
in
HINDLE WAKES.
No. 2 Company, in “THE ROTTERS,” now Touring
South Island of New Zealand.
Address G.P.0., Wellington, N.Z.
|y| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
NORMA TALMADGE in
HE DAUGHTER OF TWO WORLDS.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Amusements.
HOYT'S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
GLADYS BROCKWELL in
THE MOTHER OP HIS CHILDREN,
and
GEORGE WALSH in
THE MANHATTAN KNIGHT.
Prices as usual.
THE
GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
gkRITANMA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
jygELBA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SET.ZNICK.
Legal Notices.
TN the SUPREME COURT F THE STATE OF
1 VICTORIA.—To WALTER GEORGE WILLIAMS
formerly of Woodford and Dandenong in the State
of Victoria but late of Cloncurry in the State of
Queensland Drover TAKE NOTICE that your wife
GERTRUDE WILLIAMS lias instituted proceedings
against you for Divorce on the ground of desertion
for three years and upwards and unless you enter an
appearance in the office of the Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court of Victoria at Melbourne on or be-
fore the 3rd day of October 1920 the Court may
proceed to hear this suit in vour absence and judg-
ment may be given against you with costs. HAD-
DOCK JAMIESON and LON IE of 130 and 138 Queen
Street Melbourne Agents for GEORGE SUTHER-
LAND MACIvAY of Warrnambool Solicitor for the
Petitioner.
Form 130. No. 1.2986.
STATUTORY NOTICE TO CREDITORS.
"D E JOHN GREEN, late of Thursday Island, in the
State of Queensland, Petty Officer, R.A.N.,
deceased.
Notice is hereby given that all creditors and other
persons having claims against the Estate of the
abovenamed John Green, lute of Thursday Island,
in the State of Queensland, deceased, who died
on or about the ninth clay of March, 1920, a.d., at
Thursday Island, in the said State, are hereby"
required to send their claims to the Public Curator,
Brisbane, on or before the tenth day of November,
1920. And that after the expiration of the last-
mentioned date the Public Curator will proceed
to distribute the assets of the said deceased amongst
the parties entitled thereto, having regard only to
the claims of which he shall then have had notice.
Dated this ninth day of August, 1920.
B. J. S. BARNETT,
Official Solicitor to the Public Curator,
Brisbane.
TO FRANK HARCOURT RATTON
EVANS, brother of Lewis Herbert
Owen Evans, deceased, intestate, and for-
merly of Mangatoro, near Dannevirke, and
all persons claiming by, through or under
him.
Pursuant to an Order made by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand at Welling-
ton on the Bth day of June, 1920, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the Ist day of December,
1920, your claims to the estate of the said
Lewis Herbert Owen Evans, intestate, who
died on or about the 4th day of Sepetmber,
1918, failing which the estate will be dis-
tributed among the persons entitled thereto
disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this 4th day of
August, 1920.
GEO. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
w.
-
“INVINCIBLE”
MARINE
ENGINES.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA SINCE 1906
3 to 120 B.H.P. PROMPT DELIVERIES.
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd.,
35 Pitt Street, Sydney.
For Extensive Work, Use the Power-driven
MULTI MIX Concrete Mixer.
Australian-
made.
■■ ■
i
m
\
MADE IN
ADD SIZES
FROM U to
54 CUBIC
FEET per
batch.
MULTIMIX PATENT CONCRETE MIXER.
View of Discharge-side of Mixer.
Fitted with Petrol Engine Housed. Mounted on Transport.
MANUFACTURED AND SUPPLIED BY
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.
SPECIALISTS IN ROAD-BUILDING & CONCRETE MACHINERY.
HEAD OFFICE: 79 CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
all metal, very strong:.
Prioe 2/- post free.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
>>
820. The Cert Co.’S D.8.8.1j. Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b.
Delivered,
821. The “Cert” Gun, as above, but with X bolt Delivered,
£5/12/6
£6 151-
WE REPAIR
GUNS g RIFLES
Send for copy of
CATCH” Anglers’
The Fisherman’s
Mecum.
“SURE
Guide.
Vade
818. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
. English D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, 28- or 30-
inch barrels, both choke, top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
parent fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib, weight about 7-Sib. Freight paid,
£lB/18/-
“Koolah” Shaving Sticks
Delightful to Use. 10d. each, post free.
Owing: to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
TmsmFA^
89. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top lever,
dense Trogan nitrol 30in. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high file-cut rib, pistol
grip; chambered for 2}in. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to 7Alb.
Tested for Nito Powders Freight paid,
£l6/16/
83. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges; weight
about 71b Freight paid,
82. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun
• Freight paid,
•Isxisvs
•iSxISXTf
POWDER
AUSTRAL ... 4/0 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 6/- lb.
DUPONT'S SmoKeless for Guns 10/6 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
E. C. SMOKELESS 11/9 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS 10 6 lb.
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
barrels, both choke, I
beautifully engraved,
819. Midland Gun Co.’s 8.8.8. L.
BigCOn Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar lock 9.
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
3. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2}in. cartridges,
weight about 7jlb Freight paid,
£l5/15/-
MYRROHL
Made in
America.
TOOTH
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys , is; whitens the teeth ; hardens the gums; prevents decay ; sweetens
the breath and is specially recommended for pyorrhoea.
Price 1/9 tube (postage 2d. extra). Small sample, 1 post free.
Steven’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
top action, solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30m. or 32in.
pistol grip, walnut stock ; weight about 641 b. Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
88 Ejector, 05/-
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.:
4/8 Inter-State.
ILLUSTRATED SPORTSMAN’S GUIDE POST FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS.
DC
!Z
Headquarters: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES—
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Dr. Sheldon’s Dig«ti« Tabules
“ The Real Thing for Indigestion,”
says Mr. Wallace Nelson, Jun.
I returned from the Front by the Sardinia, and when I arrived here
I was certainly feeling very much out of sorts indeed. The bad food on the
trip upset not only me but many of my pals and we were all of us suffering
from gastric troubles and very severe indigestion, and generally feeling very
run down.
Before I left Australia from
the Perth “Sunday Times/’
two and a half years ago, I
knew Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive
Tabules as a thoroughly
sound and reliable remedy for
such ailments, and in my
worries my thoughts recurred
to them and I at once ob-
tained a tin of the Tabules
and started to use them. I
felt the benefit of them from
the first, and am pleased to
say that my digestion is now
quite normal and I think the
world of the Tabules. for
they certainly fixed me rigiit
again, as they did some of my
pals to whom I recommended
them.
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive
Tabules are certainly the
real thing for Indigestion,
and I ean honestly recom-
mend them to anyone suffer-
ing from gastric troubles or
indigestion of any nature.
V.ours truly,
(Sgd.)
WALI.ACE NELSON, Jun.,
“Sunday Times,”
Perth. W.A.
Mr. WALLACE NELSON, Jun. (from a photo by il f onte Luke)-
Perfect Digestion Means Perfect Health.
DR SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES are sold everywhere at 1/6, or in larger tins
holding more than twice the quantity, price 2/6. Buy a tin eat a good, square meal, and then
take the Tabules according to directions, and note the result. You will forget all about it it
you are not careful, for there will be no pain or disturbance and the food will be digested, just
as it used to be when your stomach was well and strong. Furthermore, your stomach will soon
be restored again, if you keep on taking them, just as thousands of other stomachs have been, by
the sole and exclusive use of DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES.
Price
2/6
Digest what you eat.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KINO
SCRUBBS AMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATION OF INSECT BITES.
Of all Grocers, Chemists, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
Next time you buy Underwear
or Stockings, ask to see Medea.
After feeling its soft smooth texture and examining the
evidences of good workmanship—the careful finishing
of all seams, and its woven shape that promises perfect
fit—judge if you are justified in paying higher prices
than those required for this other-than-all-wool wear.
ALL BRITISH
UNDERWEAR
Stockings, Socks & Gloves
For Men, Women and Children.
"\v
r ««i «;
The Uedt*
Tab
Good Drapers and Stores every-
where can supply you. See the
Medea Tab.
Manufactured by
W. TYLER SONS & CO.,
King Street, Leicester, England
Warm and thoroughly absorb-
ent Medea is. manufactured in
Britain from other than all-
wool yarn, to give comfort and
service at popular prices.
<P
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell§ Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
...
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
effected on all classes oi
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH. General Manager.
... 1 \ -i
Loves o’ the Sun.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BED, red was the maiden Morn,
As she mated the Sun,
When the curtain of night was torn,
And the day was begun.
And the hills formed a stair for her feet
And the world was her throne;
Yet the love of her lord was fleet,
And the Sun rose alone.
Grey, grey, was the dying Morn,
As the Sun passed her by,
In heat and a bitter scorn,
And bade her to die.
The hills formed a rest for her breast,
And the vales for her feet,
And a wind from the holy East
Was her winding sheet.
Blue, blue was the crowning sky
Of the full-bosomed Day,
As she threw her gold hair on high
As a net in his way.
And he stooped, and the tangle of gold
Was aflame with his love.
Then he passed as the day grew old
And pale as a dove.
Grey, grey, was the siren Eve
As her sister, the Morn ;
And above her the pale stars grieve
As the twilight is born.
And over the seas and above
Is a curtain of gloom
As the King, with his first false love,
Goes down to his doom.
Red. red is the crying sea
With the hue of his blood,
And swiftly the pallid stars flee
From the swift-pouring flood.
While the ghosts of the Morn and the Day
Are wrapped in the night
And the Sun’s crimson bed in the bay
Is hidden from sight.
WESTRALIA.
ARTEMUS H.
Koopman Andries.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE summer night was stealing down
over Table Mountain, clear-cut in the *
long straightness of its level top
against the evening sky, and across the
steely waters of the great bay lights were
beginning to twinkle in the white houses of
the old Dutch town against the indigo loom
of the mighty kop. The air was warm and
still, and Mr. Patrick Calder, Ensign in
the detachment of his Majesty’s 4(Jth Regi-
ment aboard the brig of war Emu, en route
to the settlement at Port Jackson, in New
South Wales, felt something of the lassitude
that was in the atmosphere, as he contem-
plated Cape Town from the poop.
Up the poop ladder came the Emu’s
first lieutenant, Mr. Gregory Wicks,
alluded to by his friends as “Pansy,” because
of a little affair with a maiden that had
occurred some years previously, during his
callow midshipman period. The two young
gentlemen were much of the same age, and
had several characteristics in common, one
of the most noticeable of which was a dis-
tinct disinclination to boredom. It was
not often that their joint ingenuity could
not find some more or less effective antidote
to this unpleasant condition of existence.
Mr. Wicks was all hurry and eagerness.
“Patrick, me son, I've to go ashore to-night,
so as to start early in the morning for
Simon’s Bay. What about it, me bucko V
Will ye give me the felicity of your com-
pany?”
“What’s doing at Simon’s Bay, Pansy?”
yawned Mr. Calder, displaying a wearied
interest.
“I’ve to take some papers from the Cap-
tain to the Admiral’s office. There’s
nothing doing there. But there may be
something doing in Cape Town. Can ye
get leave?”
“Oh, I can get leave easily enough. The
question is, is it worth while?”
“Of course it is, ye damned lazy leather-
neck. Go down and ask the Major now.
He’s about half-sprung and in the highest
of good humor. He’d give ye leave for
a week to-night. And look, Patrick.
Change out of uniform. I’ll have to wear
mine—but I’m taking some plain clothes
ashore. Ye’ll find ’em useful. Come, now —
don’t sit there like a stuffed monkey. Move
yourself—shake a leg. The boat’ll be away
in half an hour, and, d—n ye, I won’t wait
five minutes for ye. If ye don’t come, ye’ll
miss the two loveliest creatures in all Africa.
Your Uncle Gregory knows what he’s talk-
ing about, I tell you!”
“Girls! Nice girls, Pansy?”
“Nice dnough—for Cape Town, Coming?”
“Oh, well, I suppose so. Yes. Have you
any money—because I haven’t more than a
guinea. That infernal Van Heerdon cleaned
me out on Sunday. Can you finance us—
until pay-day?”
“Yes, d —n you. Only hurry up.- Go see
the Major, and slip into your other clothes.
We’ll shove off at eight bells —sharp.”
When they landed, Mr. Wicks led the way
to a tavern near the waterside, the Tafel
Kop, which was a resort of sailor-men pass-
ing this way to India, China and the South
Seas, and was known of old to the young
seaman.
“Ah, Piet,” he said to the stout landlord
who greeted them from his armchair on the
stoep. “so ye’re a Britisher now, eh? Well,
ye fat Dutchman, and how are ye?”
“Ja, Mynheer Ficks, your tam’ country,
once she lays hands upon other people’s
land she lets go never. But this Congress
of Vienna —what iss it? Nay, we are not
Pritish. and will never be. We haf been
sold, ’tis true, but we are yet ourselfs —Afri-
kanders. British? Nein —God forbid!”
“Can ye give us a room for the night, Piet?
Patrick, this is an old friend of mine—Mr.
Piet Potgeiter, the landlord of this charm-
ing hostelry. A bottle of your best Con-
stantia, friend Piet —and come and help. us
drink it. ’Tis three years, and more, since
I cracked a bottle in your house. And how
are all our old friends? How’s the Koop-
man Andries?”
The big Dutchman grunted as he rose
from the depths of his chair, and held out
a hand to Mr. Calder. He answered Mr.
Wicks’s question as he led the way into the
house.
“Ach, the schelm! As full of slimness as
ever. Mynheer Lieutenant. Man. he iss
notable from Shanghai to Amsterdam, and
from New Holland to London, as the most
tamnable what you call a rogue that ever
cheated a customer, or schwindled a ship s-
captain. Andries Bezuidenhout —he iss
without powels and without heart ! A stone
man—a fish! Allemachtig! What do I
know of the fellow!”
“Oh, well, he was civil enough to me when
I was last here —in the Calliope. And he
has some charming daughters. Are Julie
and Chrissie still unmarried, Piet? Hardly,
I suppose?”
“Unmarried! Oh. ja, they are unmarried
enough. Mynheer Ficks. I would say so.
Part of his business, those two girls. And-
ries does more successful cheating through
them than in any other way. Did you hear
of the Captain Hudson? No! But of course
not —how should you?”
“Hudson? You don't mean Peter Hud-
son —Peter-with-the-wall-eye, do you?”
The Heer Potgeiter gravely attended to the
selecting and opening of the bottle of wine in
the little back room into which he had led
them. The two young men found themselves
chairs, and sat down at the table, on which
flickered dimly a tallow candle in an ancient
but tarnished silver stick of great beauty.
When he had placed three glasses on the
clothless mahogany, the landlord seated him-
self with them, poured out the wine with
some ceremony, raised his own glass to his
lips, and bowed in turn to each of them.
Mr. Wicks led Patrick Calder through a
similar polite formality.
“And what about Peter Hudson?” he
asked.
“Ja, I will tell you. He came here 12
months ago, in command of the Poona, East
Indiaman, homeward bound. Her captain
had died of a fever in Bombay, and so Myn-
heer Hudson, her first officer, brought her
home. Very proud. A young kerel —his
first command. Oh, proud—very! He was
very young—only three and twenty, you
know. That devil killed him.”
“Killed him?”
“Ja —ns though he had stabbed him with a
knife, or shot him with a pistol.”
“But how? How did he kill him?”
“Man, I tell you he killed him. This way.
Had him to his house. Put Chrissie on to him.
Made him drink. Got him to sign things—
money papers, you understand? Committed
the company—badly. Peter shot himself.
In the stomach. Here—in this room. In
that chair you are sitting in, Mynheer
Calder.”
“Lord!”
“I tell you—a schelm ! You will do well
to avoid him, Mynheer Ficks.”
“Oh, well, we're going out there to-night,
you know, Piet.”
“Allemachtig! Well, mine friend. I hope
you will have more thoughtfulness than Cap-
tain Hudson had, and not make a mess in my
best parlor. I hope so.”
* * * *
They came in time to a high wall that
surrounded what seemed in the darkness to
be a large garden. Mr. Wicks found a knob
in the wall near a door, and pulled it. Up
at the back of the tall trees standing behind
the wall a bell jangled distantly, and pres-
ently the little door beside the knob was
opened, and an ancient Kaffir with a lantern
inquired their business in Dutch.
“Het Koopman Bezuidenhout?” asked Mr.
Wicks.
“Ja, baas,” replied the wrinkled black
man, and motioned with his lantern that
they should enter, f Following him up a
broad path, through what was evidently a
wide garden stretching behind the belt of
sombre pines, they came to the front of
a brightly-lighted house. On the stoep,
before one of the open doors, the figure of
a tall man was silhouetted against the glow
from within,
“Who is there? Who is it?” a pleasantly
modulated voice asked, in perfect English.
“Good evening, Mr. Bezuidenhout.” replied
Pansy. “ ’Tis Lieutenant Wicks, of his
Majesty’s ship Emu. and I Imve. taken the
liberty of bringing a friend. Ensign Calder,
of the 46th Foot—Mr. Andries Bezuiden-
hout.”
The dark figure stepped out on to the
stoep, his hands outstretched in welcome.
“Ah, my gallant sailor-friend ! You are
indeed' welcome. Come inside —my daugh-
ters will be delighted. Why, ’tis an age since
we have had such a pleasure. How long is it
since you were here, my dear Pansy—if I
may be permitted the familiarity?”
He bowed them into a large, bright room,
never ceasing to proclaim the transcending
joy which the sight of Mr. Wicks had
brought into his heart. It seemed to Pat-
rick to be all that the Dutch merchant lived
for, these infrequent visions of his companion
at the Cape.
Andries Bezuidenhout was not in the least
the typical South African Dutchman. He
was neither grossly nor loosely made, and his
clothes fitted him gfter a fashion that was
almost unknown in Cape Town. He had
an open face —and a good-looking one—that
utterly belied Piet Potgeiter’s unmistakably
slanderous estimate of his character. A
gentleman. Decidedly a gentleman. That
was Mr. Calder’s estimate of him.
Christiana, as he was presented to her,
took his breath away. The cream and roses
of Devon!’ Golden masses of hair, and laugh-
ing blue eyes! The figure of a—he did not
know enough of the classics to say what,
and in that pedantic age you could only
properly compare beauty with classical
models." A beauty —an undeniable beauty !
“My little baby!” fondly exclaimed the
handsome Dutchman as the lovely Julia
made her curtsey. She was a perfectly-
formed brunette, petit.e and charming, with
black eyes that flashed with merriment and
coquetry. Mr. Calder felt grateful to his
friend the mariner for having brought him
here. Pansy was a benefactor of his kind.
“ ’Tis delightful, I vow, to meet with
gentlemen from Europe,” lisped the dainty
Julia.
“And our Mr. Wicks!” chimed in her smil-
ing sister.
There was nothing Dutch about their
accent either. Two pretty English girls.
(Continued on next page.)


urui
W
.
When you cut or bruise yourself simply wash
the place, apply some Zam-Buk, and bandage up.
ZAM-BUK AND NATURE WILL DO THE REST.
YOU cannot get away from accidents—and you cannot get away from the need of Zam-Buk. Daily examples
of Zam-Buk’s swift, clean healing and its great utility in a thousand emergencies justify the high claims
made for this herbal “first-aid” and skin remedy.
Zam-Buk is superior in this respect—its herbal extracts are brought together by novel, scientific means. This
produces extraordinary soothing, healing and antiseptic powers. Zam-Buk occupies a unique place in regard to
its REAL MEDICINAL POWER.
There is nothing that is capable of more marvellous healing and curative action. Zam-Buk is Nature’s healer,
and at the present time, when there is a great shortage of doctors, it is real patriotism for every housewife and
every worker to keep a pot of Zam-Buk handy for the prompt self-treatment of any sudden wound or sore. When
Zam-Buk is applied to the bruised or broken skin any danger of the wound taking bad ways is removed.
There are also Poisoned Sores, Ulcers and Bad Legs, Ringworms and Scalp Sores, Burning Eczema and Aggra-
vating Piles that tell their tale in their own weakening and distressing way. All are relieved, and in many cases
the surgeon’s knife is evaded by the marvellous healing power of Zam-Buk.
HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK.
Zam-Buk is proved unexcelled for cuts, bruises, scalds, burns, sores, bad legs, ulcers, abrasions,
pimples, blisters, children’s sores, abscesses, ringworm, barber’s rash, scalp troubles, sore feet,
boils, festering sores, piles, sprains, scabs, sore heels, eczema, poisoned wounds, stiffness and injured
and diseased conditions of the skin generally. From all Chemists and Stores, at 1/6 and 3/6 per
pot; or post free direct from C. E. Fulford (Australasia), Etd., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
am
SOOTHES AND HEALS.
FACE SKINNED
AND BRUISED.
Mr. G. Corbett, of 113
Palmer Street, Sydney,
says: “My father slipped on
the doorsteps and took the
skin off the side of his
face, and left a great
bruise. It was bad for a
while and he decided to
use Zam-Buk, and the cut,
graze and bruise were
healed in a. remarkably
short time.”
SCALDED WITH '
BOILING FAT.
Mrs. S. McLaughlan, of 5
Burton Street, North Syd-
ney, says: “I was lifting
a pan of boiling fat off
the fire, and the pan cap-
sized all over the left
hand. It was bad for a
long time and greatly in-
flamed. Zam-Buk took
the inflammation away and
cured it completely, leav-
ing the skin clean again.”
■
V
\
/
\
7
V
HEALING,
SOOTHING,
ANTISEPTIC.
“Quite English,” thought Mr. Calder. pay-
ing them in his mind the highest compliment
an Englishman ever pays those who are
not of his race.
It would have been contrary to the gallant
natures of these sons of Mars had they not
soon found great ease and contentment in
the charming society of these lovely ladies.
And the jovial hospitality of their affable
papa was delightfully exhilarating. So was
his dop. It was very good dop, indeed,
There was so much of it that neither of the
young officers had other recollection of the
evening than that it was an interlude of some
vagueness, in which entertaining conversa-
tion, a pressing and gratefully-accepted invi-
tation to spend the night beneath the
Bezuidenhout roof-tree, music, the very ac-
commodating retirement of their host to his
bedroom at a discreetly early hour—with
many apologies—and a not unreciprocated
love-making between the sailor and Christi-
ana, and the soldier and Julia, were the prin-
cipal things to be remembered. It was
such an evening as most young men, in this
day or that, would have entertained the very
pleasantest recollections of
Messrs. Calder and Wicks have both been
dead for very many decades it is getting
on for a century since each one of* them
laid down his life in the service to which he
was devoted, perhaps with occasional relaxa-
tions, in a manner with which there is no
fault to be found. India and the Arctic
hold their bones, the gallant records of the
army and the navy their imperishable memo-
ries. We are not called upon to censure
their morality. Their private lives are
their own. And those two beautiful Afri-
kanders—they are dead too. But they were
very much alive that summer evening- in the
beginning of 1816. Vefy much alive indeed.
So Mr. Calder found, and so did Mr. Wicks.
But there was a terrible diseover.v in the
dawn. There were tears, the loud curses of
outraged hospitality, reproaches, threats,
more curses—and two shamefaced young men.
naidmenfc fw* wall t 0 a J\ acco ™"
paniment- of pistol-shots, screams of hysteria
and,other ominous noises! And in the even-
ing, when they returned on board the Emu
Ss t the d p^iiir d thS )m^ imol, l%i To^ 1
across tne i emnsuia, there was a letter in
wicks b R N a hnt add . ress l ed , to . lieutenant
to do’ with" Ensign mS M
gentlemnn h T^n« g w aa C > d as r wlth tbat
Kd ’radeU worded VGry disagreeably
and rudely worded.—
blrS ’n t a J
It is my intention immediately to proceed
on board his Majesty’s ship Emu to seek an inter-
view with Captain Fletcher and with the officer
commanding the troops unless you see fit to meet
me at the -Tafel Kop Tavern at 3 o’clock to-morrow
afternoon (Wednesday). You have abused mv hos-
pitality infamously, outraged my honor and be-
frayed the affections of two young and unsopbis-
ticated maidens. I regard you as consummate vil-
lams, scoundrels and blackguards. Were it not
S
to ascertain what reparation you may have in mind
to suggest for your grossly reprehensible conduct.—
ours, etc., ANDRIES BF7UTDENTTOTTT
“He writer TTr, r i BEZU^ F ;^™ UT -
Mr k ng]lsh ' don t be-, was
oKeiW&tl? W comment W this dls -
“Hell!” said Mr. Wicks,
* * * ’ *
A half-hour or so before the time
appointed in Andries Bezuidenhout’s dis-
turbing communication, Messrs. Calder and
Wicks presented themselves at the Tafel
Kop. Both were pale and serious-looking,
The landlord rallied them upon their dejec-
tion.
“Ah. my young kerels, so you have the
bad head and the sick stomach, so? Too
much of Andries wine, a little too plenty
ot ’ Vanderhun, eh? Allemachtig! But you
two look as if you were to be hanged at
sunset!”
‘Piet,’’ growled Mr. Wicks, “we want a
wold with yon.’
“At your pleasure, Mynheer Kicks. Why
ri °t. tast e a sopie first, though? You look
9? lf y°u needed it. Come, I haf some goot
co § nac - Be pleased to step within,
do # you not any harm. Afterwards—
Bl( l wol . d -
Jn V UI dark htt . back 1,00111 over , tbe
very , 0 . bl '2 nd y Wltb which Mr. Potgeiter
?£9 g , ht inactively to cheer them Mr.
Hick:i explained, somewhat haltingly by
r ? aso “. OI . his basbfiMness, the very alarming
Sltuatlon 111 which he and his friend found
* ,“ selves-
, ’ ,u see > Piet,” he concluded dismally,
“there’s no denying it. He found me in
Ghrissie s room, and Pat Calder, here, in
A,V lie s “j ust . as lt: was hght enough to see.
>h—-awful, it was! Rare —you never heard
aii ything like it! He fairly chased us over
Ibe gaiden-wall. shootin a,t us with all the
artlll ery he could lay hands on. Close, too.
bullet went through my hat, and one
s „ sleeve—show, Patrick,
• ' tc, r the iite of me I don’t remember
S ° in f, 1 ? to th „ e ro ™.: 111 fact, I have no
eC v‘° n m f anything after he went to
very fhS”' "
The big Dutchman lmd grunted snrrlnni
eally during Pansy’s recitaf of their adven-
ture, the , gleam of a smile parting his thick
Bps now and again as he listened. When
it was finished he leaned across the table
and shook a fat forefinger at Mr. Wicks
“What haf I tell von mv <mnt friend?
So ! A^s^L 1 -? Ho lo
—the old game ' The old trick lm hot”
“How a trick?” inquired Mr. Calder. '
" The same, mine two friends, that he
on Major Poulteney of the Artillery;
th e same that lie played on Captain Ilud-
son—him who killed himself in this room.
A schelm, I tell yon. Ho, a very complete
schelm,
.
liu ' What is Ills object With US?”
“The good God knows ; but he has some
obiect. Trust him Those two little s
a ' 7 VtV ' ~ lwo 11T L tle . s -
Allemachtig: Was there ever such a pair?
there ever such a father? God in
Heaven!”
“Well, he’ll be here soon Piet Whit the
d -n had we lieetterred^’n’aSeed-
anxiousiy.
“Listen, my goot friend Ficks. When he
?°“ eS a “ d StartS t 0 bully ’ 1 WOuld haf yoU
to be very much afraid of what he threatens.
He will speak of his mint daughters. So!
P>° full of sorrow for the lamentable affair.
Explain that you cannot offer marriage to
the poor innocents—because you go to a
wildt country where it would not be possible
to take them. So delicately as may be
you must hint to him that perhaps you
can make him compensation. So! It will
then appear what he wants,”
“But, dammit, Mr. 1 otgeiteiv how can
we compensate him? Besides, he doesn’t
seem to be that sort of fellow a common
blackmailer. ’
Mr. Wicks’s expression as he spoke was
one of hopeless gloom, and Patrick Calder
looked with a sorrowful interest at the chair
on which the late Hudson had evaded his
difficulties.
The big Dutchman roared with laughter,
“Ho, ho, ho—you ton’t know him, my friend
you ton t know our Andries.’
He pushed his chair back and shuffled
ponderously to a door at the side of the
little room. With his hand on the knob as
lie held it ajar, he shook his forefinger at
them again.
“Do as I say—’twill be all right. Alle-
maehtig! Do I not know the Koopman
Bezuidenhout? Do as I say. At the right
moment I will join in the conversation,
So! Do you understand ? Be very sorry
and let him say his say. Here, behind this
door, will I be listening also: and when it
is time for me to speak to the injured
Andries, I will speak. Ach ja—l will speak
to good purpose!”
He went out, and, giving them barely
time to fortify themselves with another
sopie against his homing, the koopman en-
tered • the room.
Very stern, very dignified, very austere
was that handsome, aristocratic face, with
its tinge of grey about the temples—the
face of a just man who would give and
demand justice. He bent his head slightly
to each of the young gentlemen, who had
risen as he came m and seated himself upon
the opposite side of the table in the chair
that had recently been vacated by Piet
Potgeiter.’ There ensued an uncomfortable
silence. Presently, too nervous to tolerate
the strain of waiting, Mr. Wicks opened
<air roce l m £ s : T T
We that is to say I—l mean, we
got your letter Mr Bezuidenhout. We—er
—we are here, he floundered piteously.
They found no pity in those hard eyes.,
After a further interval of silence, Mr.
Bezuidenhout laid his riding crop upon the
table, and began. There was no note of
passion in his tone no vibration of anger.
He spoke with a cold precision that almost
made Mr Calder shirer.
1 W1 l ! . aot T dw ® U upon , thft ternble dls '
coVery which I made yesterday morning, nor
upon my outraged feelings as a parent. I
will but put it to you both that neither
Captain Fletcher, of his Majesty’s ship Emu,
nor Major Carrick, of the 46th Regiment,
would be likely to pass over lightly my
complaint as to your conduct regarding my
young daughters. It remains for you to de-
cide whether I wait upon these gentlemen
or not. Unless you both give me the very
fullest satisfaction, at once, I will im-
mediately make it my business to see these
officers.”
“Er—do you wish to fight us both, sir?”
asked. Mr. Calder. “Or might I have the
honor? Of course, we are quite ready to give
you the fullest satisfaction. The very fullest
—as gentlemen.”
Something like a sneer passed over Mr.
Bezuidenhout’s face.
‘Gentlemen!” he said, and paused—as if
to consider the matter. In a few moments
he delivered his ultimatum.
You will, each of you. agree to purchase
torty tons of potatoes from my firm!”
Patrick gasped.
"Potatoes!” murmured Mr. Wicks,
dazedly.
This astounding price which he put upon
the honor of his daughters, this indemnity
lor terrifically abused hospitality, for a
shameful betrayal of trust, for heart-breaking
injury—which they were only too conscious
of being responsible for—was something the
two young gentlemen could not grasp. But
he was not jesting. He spoke very coldly
and to the point.
"Yes —potatoes. Forty tons apiece. At
-00 rix dollars the ton, delivered at Port
Jackson by the next vessel proceeding thence
from here in which I am able to obtain
cargo space. That will amount to little
more than £l5OO for each of you, and I will
accept bills upon your London agents for the
amount, at six months. Those are my
terms.”
The door opened dramatically.
“Schelm !”
Piet Potgeiter, quivering with indignation,
shook his finger at the outraged parent.
“You know well, Koopman Andries, that
there is not a potato in the colony, save only
the ten tons which I have imported from
Mauritius. Gentlemen, this man wishes
to cheat you. The potato crop here this
season was a complete failure. If you must
have potatoes purchase them from someone
who is in a position to deliver them. You will
have mine at 100 rix dollars. Ja! lam an
honest man. I do not deal in the potatoes
that are not in my possession—or in the
virtue that is not in my daughters. Koop-
man Andries,” he thundered, “leave my house
this instant, or” —he sank his voice—“or I
will convey to the proper individuals among
the authorities at the Castle the information
that your Chrissie and your Julie, your
charming daughters, had for a mother the
Lady Juliana, convict transport to New
South Wales. Ja—you have been a father,
for just six years!”
The merchant had become very pale. He
said something, imploringly, to Piet Pot-
geiter, in the Taal.
“Voetsak!” angrily responded the virtuous
landlord of the Tafel Ivop. “Schelm—out of
my house!’
Quite abjectly, the Koopman Andries slunk
through the door.
‘‘Mine good friend Ficks —and you, Mr.
Calder—you will, at any rate, take one ton,
between you, of my beautiful Mauritius
potatoes? Is it not‘so? Ja ! You are very
goot.”
“The Dutch,” observed Mr. Wicks, thought,
fully, as they walked down to the shore, “are
very great traders!”
“What’ll we do with ’em?” grumbled Mr.
Calder.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.


i
-
\
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factur'd to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—S3-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
_Vlctorlan Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
r*
HORUCK’S
- MALTED MILK „
fO'RUCKs
«m{ alteohilk
Horlick’s Malted Milk contains
all requisite forms of nourish-
ment. That is what makes
Horlick’s so rich —so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hor-
lick’s, there is a great treat in
store for you.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
68J PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High llolborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, .meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
WRIGLEYS
The NEW
flavour!
Look
for this
packet
At Chemists,
Confectioners,
Tobacconists
and Stores
Fine for the
teeth, appetite
and digestion.
SEALED TIGHT
KEPT RIGHT
And
the
other
3d.
per
packet
Great !
K»s#
till
gum
pelß*3
n»«
imnnwam^
urn.
ING GUM
A-lfl
r; rr*/i I
RUPTURE.
.A. FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT AIK CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what « sta e
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAD.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and.
childrenj and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Btreet, Melbourne, Vic.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centnrftat
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S» GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London. England*
Insist on “Singleton’s"—refuse all substitutes.
LIVER-ISMS
The liver is the regulator of health. If the
liver is active and well, good health and happi-
ness prevail; but once you allow your liver to
get torpid and sluggish, life be?
comes a misery. Dyspepsia,
Indigestion, Biliousness
Constipation, Headaches
and Melancholy assail
you,resulting in lackof
energy, loss of mem-
ory and ill-health ;
but remember
Carter's Little
Liver Pill* touch
the liver and cure
all liver ills. Try them to-day and see how
much better you will be to-morrow. They
-ever fail. Children like them.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must js?
bear signature
CARTER'S
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
If any illustration appearing in 1
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to
Manager, who will quote you price for it
: .,v.
§§
ear
m
me&
m
emm
r TO BE CERTAIN
that you have a genuine imported
factory loaded Remington UMC cartridge
Examine the brass base of the cartridge foi
the company’s own marking.
REMINGTON
smokeless
powder
NITRO CLUB
smokeless
powder
ARROW
smokeless
powder
NEW CLUB
black
powder
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative
Box 686, G. P. 0., Melbourne


MANGROvfr
LEATHER
mi
Genuine Economy
can only be secured by efficient and reliable
service at the lowest cost. MANGROVITE
LEATHER OR RAW-HIDE BELTING was
designed for this purpose, and experienced
power-plant owners have conceded its merits
to be unsurpassed. It gives long and consist-
ent satisfaction for all types of Service, and
may be classed as a genuine money-saving
proposition. Let us prove these statements
to you personally.
Manorovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowioi, Managing Director),
48 York Street (Wynvard Square), Sydney.
W. Australia: Gibbs, Bright &Co., Fremantle
S'th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
Victoria and Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co.,
Melbourne.
THE SAWS for BIG WORK
By “big work” is meant long, hard jobs. Cutting all kinds of
woods under the most severe conditions.
“An Eagle on a Globe” Circular Saws
have proved their worth. They cut quickly, cleanly and economi-
cally, holding their cutting edges longer than other saws.
Made from Double Extra Crucible Steel—standard gauges and hole 3
—in 15 styles of teeth. Sizes from 4in. diameter.
Prices promptly supplied on request to Desk “A.”
THE EAGLE 8 GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent St., SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe St, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Rd., Kalgoorlie
Cliff St,, Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews,
Brisbane
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Paul & Cray Ltd., Newcastle.
w
-LAUNDRIES-
Being Australian Manufacturers of the
most dependable laundry machinery,
we can quote you direct at lowest
prices. Our machines have established
a wide reputation for Economy in
Operation and 100 per cent. Efficiency
in Service.
STOCKS INCLUDE: Steam Mangles; Power
and Hand Collar and Shirt Machines; Hydrq-
Extractors and Supplies; All-metal Washers;
Blanketing; Sheeting; Blue; Washing and
Bagging.
Particulars of any type of Laundry
Machinery sent on application.
James Hardie & Co. Ltd.
Sydney.
P.O. Box 2536.
Melbourne.
P.O. Box 2502.
Adelaide.
P.O. Box 428.
I
'
The Peerless Combination Radiator,
Streamline Bonnet and Shield
will make your FORD a
thoroughbred in appear-
ance as well as in fact.
The . Streamline Bonnet
stives to the Car the much-
ilesired streamline effect,
and the Front Shield
hides the front springs
and other unsightly parts.
The Radiator is equipped
with the indestructible
Peerless Core, which has
proven so efficient, par-
ticularly when cooling a
Ford Engine. This type
of core is used on the
highest type of Cars—
the Peerless will not
burst in cold weather if
it happens to freeze, the
flexibility of the Core
allows it to expand, and
the water thaws out
gradually.
PRICE, complete,
The Pet 'css Combination Radiator,
Streamline Bonnet and Shield.
No. 2. Demountable Wheel Set for Ford Cars.
For want of a spare De-
mountable Wheel, the
Ford Car has had a most
desirable necessity lack-
ing, and to enable those
F ordomobilist s
who wish to become
modernised, we have
pleasure in announcing
THE DEMOUNTABLE
WHEEL SET FOR FORD
CARS, whereby any Ford
owner may make ALL
WHEELS DEMOUNT-
ABLE, and also have A
SPARE WHEEL.
They are easy to fit, and
one of the greatest Ford
o
&
o
-- ■■ w
O Yso
0
P o'-'b
Demountable Wheel set for Ford Cars.
PRICE, COMPLETE, of 1 EXTRA WHEEL, 5 STEEL FLANGES,
©rad all necessary Bolts and Nuts, and Nut Brace. ..... £7/15/-
The
previous magnificent receptions accorded these two Ford Improvements indicate a large demand, so, to avoid disappointment,
early application is necessary*
SWANS LIMITED,
T
House for Motor
neers’ Supplies,
304 Pitt Street, Sydney.
*
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 234 inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, oanoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £27/10/-
Correspondence invited.
D.gW.
Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
Brasswork.
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE.
WATER and
SEWERAGE
BOARDS’
STANDARD.
Guaranteed to pass above Standard Tests.
MEDIUM WEIGHT
for Country Water Ser-
vices. Factory tested.
Alderdice Limited,
PUMP MANUFACTURERS,
WARRNAMBOOL, VICTORIA.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Perth
DELCO-LIGHT
A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts,, etc.
mm
Runs on
Kerosene
Safe.
Reliable
One Gallon of Kerosene
will light 32 Lamps for 4'/ 2 hours.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM SOLE AGENTS—
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBURTON, FRANIU LTD.,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
There’s a Knowies Pump
for every type of service
It needs a bijr flight of imagination to conceive at a moment the wide field success-
fully served by KNOWLES PUMPS. _ Prom the world’s greatest docks and industrial un-
dertakings to the humblest pumping job,, Knowies Pumps are holding a reputation for
continuous dependable service. Particular care in design and construction build into them
an ability to meet overloads and to work reliably through long stretches that would
knock out pumps of inferior design and workmanship.
There is a KNOWLES PUMP for every class of service—for your
problem, supplied in SINGLE or DUPLEX, VERTICAL or HORI-
ZONTAL types. Ask us for particulars of BOILER FEED or PRES-
SURE PUMPS, TANK or LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS, MINE-SINKING
PUMPS, AIR PUMPS, CIRCULATING PUMPS, ETC.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE ST, SYDNEY-
Cable Address: “LACY,** Sydney.
