

The
R. G. &£> CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent: StreeU, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
N-S-'W- MONT de PIETE D & I C9T LIMITED,
74 Si-., 74. Sydney.
-ADVANCES -
sdf
ON ALL CLASSES
OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION
ml:
frj/tcfiejjf 215*17 Swanston St.,He!b.. 40 Adelaide St, Brisbane.
29 King St., Newcastle. l97*Castlereaqh 5t,& 150 George st.,West. Sydney.
CAPITAL £l 200.000
Joseph W.Hill,
Genera,
Phone City 9325 .
ral Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and Although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
Improved BIG CHIEF
Oil Engines.
sdf
Head and
above all
others,
Sizes:
1 H h -P-
-to 8 ir.p.
Stationary
and
Portable,
Order One TO-DAY.
CASH OR EASY TERMS.
R. L. Scrutton 8 Co. Ltd.,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Ai
gu e
Nbthh»o
to Arguc
About!'
&
Are the
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive
J
HA N S E N’S
unket^
•"■tAW —'ri HI -JL
TABLETS
por INDIGESTION
aml DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Chugs Prize Medals.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
i
i
181
NCvWYVX
wwvY
\WW\
wwvC
Yet another proof of Pabco excellence.
Mr. H. King-Salter, General Manager of the Commonwealth Naval Dockyard,
Cockatoo Island, writes:—
“I have to inform you that a piece of plate was coated with Pabco Paint on
the 2nd October last, and placed in the Galvanising Shop at the back of the Pick-
ling Tank.
“On examination after 59 days’ exposure to the hydrochloric fumes, it shows
no signs of corrosion, nor is there any trace of pitting or loss of color, and it has
a hard, glossy surface.”
Ask for further details.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
a
■
GRANVILLE
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines
Sugar Mill Machinery . Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks, etc »
(The Best Wine Tonic)
ORME, KEIGWIN (£b CO. LTD., SYDNEY Sole Agents.
“A.W.” “T.Y.R”
“A.W. PREMIER.”
WHIT
HIGH-SPEED DRILLS.
HIGH-SPEED STEEL.
esentatives:
O f. 115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
<5 vv. LIU., 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Inter-State Stocking: Agents:
A. SCOTT & CO., 164 Edward Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, Etd., Worands Bldgs., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.), Etd., 894 Hay Street, Perth.
Manufa<flured by Sit* W. O. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH &. CO, LTD., Manchester, England.
sd
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay.
fs
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2088.
Thursday, February 19, 1920.
PRICE 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


iHI
is
II
. . V
te-S
EAM
Ask any man to name the six
best British cars and aimost
his first word will be
“ Sunbeam.”
That’s how the Sunbeam -20 -
years-reputation has moulded
public opinion. And public
opinion is well nigh infallible- —
even politicians recognise the
fact.
Ihe inference is—consider well
the claims of the Supreme
Sunbeam before choosing your
car.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR
GAR CO., LTD.,
Export Dept. 62, Oxford Street,'London, W.l
Cabk grams - “ Subeamoco, London."
Head Office - Wolverhampton, England.
, /t/ ,
7 j
Sole Agents for New South Wales: FRASER & WIEESFORD, 822 George Streep Sydney.
The Round Table,
A Quarterly Review
of the Politics of
the British Com-
' monwealth.
■pv ECEMBER NUMBER. Well-infromed articles.—
The Price of Liberty ; European Reconstruction;
The Middle East; Botha, Reviews of Domestic Politics
in United Kingdom, India and Dominions. Australian
section. —Seamen’s Strike; .Repatriation; Return of
Mr. Hughes. Price 2/6 per copy; 2/9 post free.
MESSRS. MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
Russell Street, Melbourne.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mifchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldiers taking part
in the Great War. Good prices will be
paid for good material. Address Mitchell
Library, Siacquarie Street, Sydney.
For the Trustees.
W. H. IFOULD,
Principal Librarian and Secretary.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
AFRAID OF FOOD
Sufferers from indigestion very often become faddists as regards'their food and find
themselves in time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet. Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jubjubes correct acidity of the stomach, and their antiseptic properties prevent
abnormal fermentation of the food, thus allowing the natural digestive ferments to act,
and if taken regularly after meals they so
improve the digestion that a strict diet be-
comes unnecessary. Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes are most useful to those who suffer
from Heartburn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE—Tins 1/6.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.:—-
The Lancet, The Practitioner, etc.
[7
dfs
The Red Page
A Crown of Sonnets.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[The “erowii of sonnets” consists of a “sonnet of
sonnets. Each octave must begin with the last line
0 i- i P revlous sestet; and the 15th sonnet must be
entirely composed of the first lines of the previous
* 4 - • j , e . accompanying remarkable “crown” by
Uavid McKee W right follows the old Italian form,
rhe Red Page knows of no other example of it' in
English.]
I—MYSELF.
Here by the grace of a great love am I,
Set in a mastery of earth and trees,
All lesser creatures fawning at my knees
Or fearing my caprice may bid them die.
The air blown sweet about me, the broad sky,
And all that comradeship of clouds and seas
With the great mountains throned in stony ease
Join homage to my wonder where I lie.
I wonder and I dream. Yellow and grey,
In long procession, the good days move on.
Ihe bloom sways on the branches green and tall;
And while to-morrow hears from yesterday
Of other yesterdays long bloomed and gone,
My body sings in rhythmic rise and fall.
lI.—MY BODY.
My body sings in rhythmic rise and fall:
Full tides are in my breathing and my blood;
Within me hot red cataracts leap in flood;
White branching nerve-vines thread the tissued wall.
Winter and summer through my being call ;
Pale starry blooms the purple meadows stud
When Spring comes laughing into leaf and bud—
Seedtime and harvest, I am all in all.
The world within me to the world without
Sends embassies of trade and war-won ease.
I am the king of subjects great and small
That toil for me and put my foes to rout;
Pirates or husbandmen, I live by these—
.My limbs are servants to the will’s swift call.
111. FREEDOM.
My limbs are' servants to the will’s swift call.
Oh, these shall bear me lightly in the dew
Of mellow mornings under skies as blue
As the first dream of laughter. Shadows tall
Shall run behind me as my light feet fall,
Brushing the merry seeded grasses through
lor joy of life. Trees moveless where they grew
Shall chatter envy in their leafy shawl.
I gaze upon the wonder of my hand,
My supple arm, my swiftly bending knee,
The soft, white strength of shoulder, loin and thigh,
The fingers gripping like an iron band,
My wrist can break you in your strength, great tree —
I take my way unfettered ’neath the sky.
IV. POWER.
I take my way unfettered 'neath the sky
Through all the yellow places of the sun.
Across my path the spider’s silk is spun—
He toiled all night his small, grey knots to tie.
In red and gold a glancing butterfly
Is merry in his first short flight begun;
Swift from my path the rustling lizards run—
O great Small things, a greater thing am I.
The pride of strength has kindness in its power.
I would not snap the toiling spider’s thread
Nor haste to death the lizard and the fly.
I am the king, the master of the hour.
Linked with all living, on a grassy bed
One finger-breadth from God Himself I lie.
V.—TOUCH.
One finger-breadth from God Himself I lie,
For I have magic of delights to win
Under the mystic garment of my skin.
I envy not the wings that dip and fly.
Nay, how should these hold converse with the sky
Feeling so little? Chill airs blowing thin
Ruffle their feathers, but they- know within
No gladness of the silken leaves and dry.
I touch, I feel. No stone but speaks to me,
No water but has sweet, soft things to say,
No plashing rain but cools me in its fall.
Great autumn heaps a banquet on the tree
And' whitens fields. To her rich mood I sway,
Holding upon my tongue the taste of all.
VI.—SWEETNESS.
Holding upon my tongue the taste of all,
I breathe the scent of honey where the bee
Hives in the sun. Gold plunder of the tree,
Rape of the blossom sweet and sweeter call
Over mown grasses; and the roses tall—
Tossed roses dying into memory—
Set all their fragrance on the' warm airs free
As the day stoops and the first shadows fall.
There is a tender charm in woodland fires,
In salt airs blown before the spume of waves,
In rain on dust when distant thunders brawl;
But when my dreams grow large with waste desires
There is a thought that ever soothes' and Saves—
The flowery sweetness by life’s garden wall.
VII.—COLOR.
The flowery sweetness by life’s garden wall
Is passionate with fragrance in the moon.
White roses sigh for light that died too soon
And every sigh can hold the air in thrall.
Flake by slow flake the breathing petals fa 1 1....
But when the morning glows a gracious boon
Of rising light, wild color at its noon
Breaks from the bud and riots over a 11 .4
Yellow and crimson and ethereal blue,
Imperial purple streaked with daffodil
And white too dazzling pure, save for the eye
Of veined and tender green—O time of dew,
My heart aches sweetness and my eyes o’erfill
Where beauty is a music and a cry,
VIII.—MUSIC.
Where beauty is a music and a cry
I linger drunken with full sight and sound.
Oh, wonderful green earth that round and round
Thrills to the tender magic of a sigh!
Oh, wonderful white sun that climbing high
Awakes a rapturous singing from the ground!
Earth, air and life their melody have found
In the first morning glory of the sky.
Let there be speech of strings and pipes that fill
To marching of hot feet and tramp of blood.
Let every ear be thrilled with long delight,
While over all the worlds forever spill
Voices unheard and holy strains that flood
The stars in the forgetfulness of night.
IX. THOUGHT.
The stars in the forgetfulness of night
Shine on, unchanging, through the praise and blame
Of petulant worlds that watch the clear, far flame
From youth to falling age. My thought takes flight,
Soaring above the limits of my sight,
To broad, still fields that have nor place nor name.
Out of the steadfast stars the great dreams crnie
Falling on men like dews of silver light.
Wings of the mind upon the starry air
Beat a long course to no uncertain goal.
The ripe fruits cluster in a golden land,
The leaves are green for constant healing there;
Sweet water for the thirsting of my soul
I hold within the hollow of my hand.
X. MEMORY.
I hold within the hollow of my hand
Things new and old, the treasure of great years.
There, as a gem full lustred with its peers,
Glitters the deed, the word. The desert sand
Blows over Memphis, and a weary land
Forgets and still forgets in dust and tears
The bulrushes that part their 'lifted spears
Before the mothering princess on the strand.
Pharaoh’s sweet daughter on the thread of time
Is more than all the pomp of faded thrones.
Good men, good women —these can never die
That set themselves to memory as a rhyme;
And earth to earth for all her wrongs atones,
Scorning the dream of death that is a lie.
XI. FAITH.
Scorning the dream oL death that is a lie,
I grasp with surer hand life’s broidered hem.
Above me is the great white diadem
That truth shall wear in places proud and high
Forever and forever. Branch and stem
Man’s race grows, upward. I am one with them
Who hear the future in the human cry.
Because we seek so much our quest is true,
Because our dreams are great our goal is sure,
Because we stumble with a little light
We shall walk boldly with clear lamps and new
And find for faith half-blind a double cure
In the vast faith »tliat cannot grow to sight.
XII.—KINSHIP.
In the vast faith that cannot grow to sight
Shall live the perfect music of the mind.
The tendrils of a thousand vines shall bind
Life’s grapes upon the trellises of light.
Friendship of old had blossoms starry white;
And these shall bloom and happier harvest find
When, in the nobler wisdom, man grown kind
Shelters by one dear hearthstone in the night.
There shall be tales to tell and songs to sing;
And memory shall live afar from fear
When little lisping children understand
That, deep as wells of God’s imagining,
The waters of the soul run crystal clear—
The boundless is a sea that calls to land!
XIII.—THE INFINITE MERCY.
The boundless is a sea that calls to land.
I cannot think upon an end of days
Or time’s beginning. All the starry maze
Swims on in ether oceans and the band
Of visible blue nothingness is grand
With spaciousness about the utmost ways.
No end within, without. 0 soul, lift praise
For that we know and cannot understand!
In understanding that were death of 'thought,
Death of the soul, the dream, the faith, the mind;
A barrier set to truth, or low or high,
Would make man’s prison, bring his hope to nought.
The boundless is our kin and God is kind—
Here by the grace of a great love am I.
XIV.—.LOVE.
Here by the grace of a great love am I.
I make no moaning through the unquiet deep
Of nights that, starless, to the low ground weep
Large tears from out the darkness of the sky.
I love and I am loved; and laye may lie
Not loving less for the still hours of sleep,
When heart from heart a little while must keep
Its tender word closed in a dreaming sigh.
Dear heart, the love that fills the flying days
With song and sweeter deeds is all of God.
How should the song of such a singing die?
Eternal music fills the living ways.
Kin to the stars and kinder to the sod;
Here by the grace of a great love am I!
XV.—MASTER SONNET.'
Here by the grace of a great love am I.
My body sings in rhythmic rise and fall;
My limbs are servants to the will’s swift call.
I take my way unfettered ’neath the sky;
One finger-breadth from God Himself I lie
Holding upon my tongue the taste, of all
The flowery sweetness by life’s garden wall
Where beauty is a music and a cry.
The stars in the forgetfulness of night
I hold within the hollow of my hand,
Scorning the dream of death that is a lie.
In the vast faith that cannot grow to sight
The boundless is a sea that calls to land—
Here by the grace of a great love am I.
N.S.W.
DAVID MuKEE WRIGHT.
Dialect and Poetry
Kenneth Slessor’s article on the incon-
gruity of dialect in poetry was substantially,
if not wholly, correct. One must be careful
to differentiate between poetry and mere
verse. “The Sentimental Bloke,” for in-
stance, is not poetry. . It is verse, clever of
its kind, certainly, and it enjoyed a huge popu-
larity, but no sane person wmuld think of
calling it good poetry. There are, however,
many passages in it that contain genuine,
though partially hidden, beauty, and which,
if translated into English, would make fine
poetry. For instance:
Livin’ and lovin’, wand’rin’ on yer way,
Reapin’ the ’arvest of a kind deed done,
An’ watehin, in the sundown of 'yer day,
Yerself again, grown nobler in yer son.
Or:—•
The moon, Night’s conkerbine, comes glidin’ by,
An’ laughs an ’eartless, silvery “Ha, ha”;
Scorned, beaten Dav gives up the ’opeless fight,
An’ drops ’is bundle in the lap o’ Night.
Now, the beauty that those lines undoubtedly
contain is spoilt andc made absurd by the
crude dialect and idiotic spelling. As Mi-
Maxwell says, Kenneth Slessor has given us
a salutary warning. There is no beauty or
art in this ugly mangling of the language and
it can do our literature no good.
LACHLAN BEATON.
Hilary Lofting (B. 29/l/’2O), in a shocked
rejoinder to my theories about dialect, re-
marks: ‘ln the dramatic form, how can the
(Continued on page 28.)
This Week’s Toilet Hints
A PARE COLLECTION OF BEAUTY HINTS FROM NEAR AND FAR.—
HOME RECIPES.
GETTING RID OF FEMININE
MOUSTACHES.
“Practical Suggestions.”
To women who are annoyed by disfiguring
downy hair growths a method of permanently
eradicating the same will come as a piece of
good news. For this purpose pure powdered
pheminol may be used. Almost any chemist
should be able to supply an ounce of this
drug. The recommended treatment is de-
signed not only to remove the disfiguring
growth instantly, leaving no trace, but also
to actually kill the hair roots, without
irritating the skin.
HOW TO HAVE THICK AND PRETTY
HAIR.
“Home Talents.”
Soaps and artificial shampoos ruin many
beautiful heads of hair. Few people know
that a teaspoonful of good stallax dissolved >n
a cup of hot water has a natural affinity for
the , hair and makes the most delightful
shampoo imaginable. It leaves the hair
brilliant, soft and wavy, cleanses the scalp
completely and greatly stimulates the hair
growth. The only drawback is that stallax
seems rather *expensive. It comes to the
chemist only in sealed jib. packages, which
retail at half a crown. However, as this is
sufficient for twenty-five or thirty shampoos,
it really works out very cheaply in the end.
iILACKHEADS, OILY PORES, ETC.
A unique new method instantly removes and
corrects them.
The new sparkling face-bath treatment
rids the skin of blackheads, oiliness and en-
larged pores almost instantly. It is per-
fectly harmless, pleasant and immediately
Effective. -All you have to do is to drop a
stymol tablet, obtained from the chemist’s, in
a glass of hot water, and after the resulting
effervescence has subsided the affected
portions of the face freely with the liquid.
When you dry the face you will find that the
blackheads come right off on the towel, the
large pores contract and efface themselves
.and the greasiness is all gone, leaving the
skin smooth, soft and cool. This treatment
should be repeated a few times at intervals
of several days in order to make sure that
the result shall be permanent.
GREY HAIR UNNECESSARY.
A simple, old-fashioned home-made lotion that
will restore the qolor of youth.
One need not resort to the very question-
able expedient of hair dye in order not to-
have grey hair. The grey hair can easily
be changed back to a natural color in a few
days’ time merely by the application of a
simple, old-fashioned and perfectly harmless
home-made lotion. Procure from your
chemist two ounces of tammalite concentrate
and mix it with three ounces of bay rum.
Apply this to the hair a few times with a
small sponge, and you will soon have the
pleasure of seeing your grey hair gradually
darkening to the desired shade. The lotion
is pleasant, not sticky or greasy, and does
not injure the hair in any way. [S


A.
Vi
a
This is a Wiard All-steel Plough (No. 69), suitable
for exceptionally heavy work, such as road-building. It can be
used with four or more horses, or steam power. Weight, with
clevis, 3251 b £lB/15/-
No. 62, the Wiard Patent Wood Beam Plough
(as illustrated) will turn a furrow from 3 to 5 inches deep
and from 6 to 8 inches wide. Suitable for light work, on?
horse being required. Weight 401 b., with wheel onlv.
£2/17/0
t
The Wiard Rooter Plough, No. 67 (as illustration), has
great strength and is adapted to contractor?’ work. The beam
is made of charcoal-east-iron. The point is wedge shape, 32in.
long, and one inch thick, and is reversible. Weight, with
clevis, 2501 b £l3/'5/r
This Plough, No. 74 Wiartl, has forged steel beam, chilled
or steel mouldboard, knife coulter (not as shown), and Scotch clevis.
The handles are of iron, and can be raised or lowered ; best soft-
centre steel mouldboards, steel landsides, with steel shoes, and
forged steel beam. Weight, 84lb 05/-
No. 120.—Steel Beam Patent Swivel Plough
illustration), has steel mouldboard, and is rigged with straight steel
coulter, which is always in line with the plough, being automatically
shifted when the mouldboard is reversed. This plough will turn
hillside or level land without leaving dead furrows or ridges. Will
cut from oin. to Bin. deep and Bin. to 12in. wide. Weight,
1181 b £8
df
The Morgan Patent Spading Harrow is in'lnitely
superior to every other form of Harrow. It not .Truly thoroughly
pulversisfis the soil, but leaves it in such a condition that- it is
properly aerated.
A—3ft.—One-horse, 8 16in. spades £lO
A—4ft. —Light two-horse, 8 16in. spades ...... .... £lO/15/-
A—sft. —Light two-horse, 10 16in. spades £1 4
C —sft. —Two-horse, 10 18in. spades £l2/15/-
A—Oft. —Standard two-horse, 12 16in. spades £1.2/15/-
C — 6ft. —Heavy two-liorse, 12 18in. spades . . . , £l4/5/-
C— 7ft. —Two- or three-horse, 14 18in. spades £ J "J,
Everything for the
FARM.
HELPING you to make it
pay!
Every year is witness
to improvements in Farm Imple-
ments —saving labor—speeding up
—bringing a better return.
Anthony Horderns* displays embodying
these features are equal to the best Annual
Show of Exhibits.
Whether you dip into the pages of the
Agricultural Catalogue or saunter round
ihe spacious Show Galleries, you will find
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ the medium
whereby you come into closest touch with the
world’s master aids to Farming Efficiency.
Here is a page that will interest you. If you
cannot find what you want "end for the
CATALOGUE.
This Disc Harrow, The Star, embraces every modern
improvement and convenience, and can be operated with the
greatest ease for man and team. The frame is of strong channel
steel, as are al=o the braces that hold both ends down to their
work. Supplied with fore carriage, taking the weight off the horse s
neck and allowing harrow to turn in a small space.
Light 2-Horse, sft. wide, 10 16in. discs £lt»
2- or 3-Horse, 6ft. wide, 12 16in. discs £l7
All Star Harrows have two levers. Cleaners included.
No. 245 (as illustrated). A well-built Wiard Double Full'OW
Plough embodying the latest improvements. Fitted with two S-inch
2201 b. Eminently suitable for Vineyard or Orchard
£l2/15/-
shares.
use
Weight
These prices do not include cost of carriage.
Anthony Hordern s S°;i
605 Brickfield Hill.
SYDNEY.
•mSMrSK:
This is the Emperor Hay Rake, and a good rake
it is, too. The teeth are flattened and have chisel points
that will not dig, take up little dust, offer least resistance,
and reduce the draft.
Bft. wide, 24 teeth £l2
dMHMaC
Bentall’s Mill. The name Bentall on a crusher is a
guarantee of efficiency. At the price quoted this mill is
supplied with one handle only. Price... ... £7/17/6
C\'B
CXB Chaffcutter (Bentall’s), rising mouth,
7|in. wide, cuts Jin. and Jin., 36in. wheel .... £lO/17/6
The p. & O. Canton Disc Plough gives good
results in heavy, sticky soils or in very hard, dry soil.
It is strongly made of the best materials. The discs are
26in in diameter, and each will turn a furrow from 3 to 12
inches deep and from 10 to 12 inches wide. Price:
1- £l9/10/-
2- £24/10/-
3- (as illustrated) £2B/10/-
EJ
This is the Canton Guard Lever Harrow, *
lost useful implement, especially in trashy ground. the
iconvenience and waste of time caused by the tines accumu-
iting trash and fouling a harrow can be avoided by iismg
tiis harrow, for by means of the levers the tines clear them-
elves. Made in two sections of 25 and 30 teeth per section.
50 teeth, £8; 60 teeth, including long bar, £9/5/-
The illustrated Agricultural Imple-
ments Catalogue costs you nothing
and may save you pounds. Send
for a copy NOW!


Worth Flying" For.
N
|r
9
PH
m.
fflfe
$r
fm
i
5r
■V
1
as#’
m
w
m
wm
/
Meggitt Limited’s Welcome
to Ross Smith and Crew.
Agents.—Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co., Queen Street, Brisbane; Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay, Ltd., 666 Bourke Street,
Melbourne; Messrs Clarkson, Limited, Bundle Street, Adelaide; Messrs. W. Adams & Co., King Street, Perth;
.Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart.
FURTHER PARTICULARS FROM fIMW STOCK FOODS, DEPARTMENT A.
PNSEEDOII^
WEGQTt
Ohcboyon. the bag
guarantees quality'
HEAD OFFICE ZG KING ST SYim^^rks-.PcUTamatia)
UNSErjoume^
iWI
fAEDGITTU
PARRAMATTA
°/Ae Jboy on theJb&q
quar&ntees Qualify


For Kiddies
If you have trouble in giving
your little ones an opening medicine
when they need it, try them next
time with Pinkettes. This new laxa-
tive is gentle and pleasant ard will
be taken readily by all children.
They correct the stomach ailments
of children ; are a good laxative in
feverishness and given when there
are signs of a cold coming on, are a
good thing to disperse it.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Where to Stay when Visiting Sydney
Cronulla Beach Hotel.
Direction Cronulla Hotel, Ltd.
Healthy, Invigorating SURFING Resort.
Tel., Ivogarah 19. Week-ends a Specialty.
J. A. GRANT, Manager.
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & '
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
&
THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN."
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc..
118 West 31st Street,
New York. U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
CELEBRATED
</*3
w
*
The Rapid Cure lor Corn
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and voune—-hard or soft, and
that remedy is A’CORN SILK, which
removes the worst corn in a few days, and the
sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure —it kills them. It is a painless cure—-
you don’t feel them goinsr. It j s a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
K. W. Bradley, Fitzroy Bui.dings, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Aberdeen House,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart.
R. H. Maxwell & Co., 18 Howard Street,
Perth, W.A. [1
Bostosk’s Shoe Dressing.
The pre-eminent feature of Bostoek’s Polish is its remarkable
LEATHER-PRESERVING QUALITY.
With the present high cost of Shoes it is important that a
dressing should have this essential.
BOSTOGK’S SHOE CREAMS not only impart a brilliant and lasting shine, but
add greater life to Shoes by nourishing the leather, keeping it soft and pliable,
and preventing cracks.
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood and White. In Bottles and Tubes.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
X,
"H
l #
; //
X
"fitJAS*’
' X x "; '
*'• igTy .Wjf^
“ Foursquare to
all the winds
that blow”
Face the world with a glad heart and a good courage—be ready
tor anything and everything as it comes along. The man or
woman who is always ready is the one who is always ft —for
whom no task is too hard, no responsibility too great. Regularity
of habit is the secret of such “ all-readiness ” —Kruschen Salts, the
famous home remedy for all those minor ills which militate
against vigour or body and alertness of mind, is the secret of
such regularity. The Kruschen Habit makes you fit and keeps
you fit as nothing else does —it acts as a gentle reminder to the
liver, kidneys and eliminative system generally to the daily per-
formance of their vital functions —with these orgins working
well and regularly the health-eificiency of mind and body is
assured. Get the Kruschen Habit —persevere with it —and
know the joy of liie 1
bsL
AUSTRALIAN
PRIPF
2/3
p,ei burnt
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:
MESSRS. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Proprietors, E. Griffiths Hughes (KruschenJ Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England
sdf
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
df
ro
H.M. THE KINO.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATION OF INSECT BITES.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Eto
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
sdf
An Unique Statement,
BUT TRUE.
The celebrated “Ross” Prismatic RACE Glasses are
the best Race Glasses made in any part of the
world.
Ross Glasses were adopted for the British Navy and
British Army after trials of all other makes of
glasses.
They are hermetically sealed, and so withstand all
conditions of weather.
They have wonderful definition, light and extra
large field.
We have just opened Models 6 and 8, and also Ross’s
Celebrated Marine Glasses and Telescopes.
We sell Ross Glasses at Ross’s Catalogue English
prices, plus only landing charges.
If
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
PRESCRIPTIONS OUR SPECIALTY.
Vice-Regal Opticians for 25 Years,
Sight=testing Rooms Upstairs,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Summer.
As I went gathering wattle-bloom,
Wattle-bloom and fragrant broom,
All along the mountain-side,
Through the lemon-tinted air
I saw a slender woman glide
With gold down-blowing hair.
Warm and brown and sapling-slim,
Under breathless leaf and limb,
She moved, a thing of light and fire,
While all the time in raptured beat
Earth-melodies of deep desire
Kang round her flowery feet.
I caught her by her hot, wild hair.
I held her for a moment there.
And through the hapny ripening ground
Across the full fields close and clear,
I heard the mellowy, yellowy sound
Of “Summer —Summer’s here !”
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
Sea Songs.
Lied leaves on the hill, in the dusk of the
day,
Are whispering, whispering little chill
tunes;
And I hear as I listen the whistle of spray.
And ttie cry of the sea over desolate dunes.
In the dark of the day—
Of seas that creep sobbing and spent to
the dunes.
Yet I know as I hearken that somewhere afar
White roses of dawning are breaking in
bloom,
Where, mantled in pallor and shorn of her
star,
Morn scatters her sheen over breakers that
boom
On the coastlands afar.
White roses of Day robe the breakers that
boom.
Red leaves here in twilight make murmurous
rune
Of sorrow and slumber and sorrow and
sleep;
And the grey seas that break on the bronze
of the dune
Sob low, like a woman who wakens to
ween—
A sorrowful rune
Like the sobbing of one who awakens to
weep.
Yet I know and am glad in the knowledge
of this,
How lipping and lapping in azure and
rose,
With glamor of wonder and beauty of bliss,
The sea has a song as it flashes and flows
Far fairer than this!
Hymning purpose and hope as it shim-
mers and flows!
And born of the silence and sweeter than
sound
Creeps a mystical flame from each dusky
red leaf,
Impearling the arch of the night, planet-
crowned.
With a magical twilight of joyance and
grief-—•
Sweet, sweeter than sound,
Love’s magic, dream magic of laughter
and grief!
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
Aftermath.
For dear love’s days of high-flung golden
noons
And sweet appealing intimacy of nights,
And all that comes with these,
I thank the gods that made me, as for boons
Of love’s songs dying, and the pale delights
Of friendship’s sweetnesses.
I thank the gods for the exultant beat
Of singing pulses that bring in desire
And passion’s royal show,
And for the hours when whispering memories
meet
To sigh for love until the smouldering fire
Leaps in a freshening glow.
I give thanks meet for anger and for hate.
For pity and for rapture and for fame.
For sin and joy thereof:
I praise the gods that ere it be too late
I have known fear and terror and fierce
shame
That is the zest of love.
For the soft dalliance of enamored noons
And love’s deep intimacy of perfect nights
And passion’s wizardries
I thank the gods my masters, as for boons
Of friendship’s gentle mai'ch of calm de-
lights
And all that comes with these.
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
The Temple of Isis.
The shrines whereat man worshipped in the
past,
The altars where his heedless gods have
reigned.
Are scattered in the dust, their ritual
stained
And all the golden symbols overcast;
Isis alone prevails, whose secrets vast
No human vision ever yet attained.
Her shrine endui’es. her altars, unm-efaned.
Still mock the hand of Time th’ eidoloclast.
Great Mother Nature! We have raised to
thee
A broader fane than priest-ruled Egypt
planned,
Yet must we still above the portal read
The menace of th’ imperishable screen :
“I am what is, what has been and shall be,
My veil was never raised by mortal hand.’’
N.S.W.
F. B. G.


EFFICIENCY of PRODUCTION
Manufacturers, Engineering Workshops and Foundries are fast realising
the enormous advantages of using modern and up-to-date machinery.
THE BEST MADE MACHINES OF TO-DAY will keep their value longer
than those made years ago. It would be a fatal mistake to try to meet the
emergencies of manufacture by the old and practically obsolete types.
We stock a comprehensive range of Machine tools, which enables us to offer
that which will best fill any given set of conditions. We are not tempted, by
considerations of self interest, to recommend anything but the most efficient.
WE HAVE A RELIABLE “BIG PRODUCTION” machine for every
operation, whether it be in the factory, the engineering works or in the repair shop.
IT WILL PAY any man or owner of a shop who desires to become a leader
to visit our Showrooms and witness a practical demonstration of Machine Tools
representing the very latest method in manufacturing. We are able to do this as
we have our machines running under belt. If you are unable to call, post vour
enquiries to us. Our Expert is at your command to assist you in anv problem'vou
are endeavoring to solve. Our advice is free.
MACHINES ACTUALLY IN STOCK AND AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
MILLING MACHINES.
No. 2 “Garvin” Universal.
“Uarvin” Plain.
“ALFRED HERBERT” Vertical.
LATHES.
“ALFRED HERBERT” Combination Turret Lathes.
“ALFRED HERBERT” Hexagon Bar Lathe.
“WILLARD” Tool room Lathe With taper turning
attachment; “Willard” Higli Speed Lathe; “Lodge &
Shipley” Bin. High Speed; “Lodge & Shipley”
High Speed, “Lund’s” BJin. x Bft. Gap Bed Lathe.
GRINDING MACHINES
“ALFRED HERBERT” Universal Tool and Cutter
Grinder, “Heald” Internal Grinder, “Heald” Cylinder
Grinder, Surface Grinder, “Lurasden” Oscillating
Tool Grinder, “Lumsden” Periphery Grinders,
“Lumsden" Plain Grinders, “Alfred Herbert” Ball-
bearing Twist Drill and Disc Grinder, Double-ended
Floor Grinder, Double-ended Bench Grinders fitted
with Dust-proof bearings.
DRILLING MACHINES.
"ALFRED HERBERT” one, two, three and four spindle
Ball-bearing, High Speed Sensitive Drilling
Machines, auto, and plain feed.
CHUCKS.
“COVENTRY” Concentric Chucks, “Cushman” Universal
3-ja\v 3in. to 12in.; “Cushman” Independent 4in. to
'iOin.; “Horton” 6in. to 12in.; “Coit’s” Drill Chucks -
“Little Giant” Drill Chucks No. 00 to No. 4 includ’
ing 24.
HIGH SPEED TOOLS.
TWIST DRILLS—Taper shank, iin. to 2in.
Straight shank, iin. to iin.
CUTTERS, Side and Face, and Plain.
SLITTING SAWS.
CHAS E. YOUNG
Sole Ag'ent for
ALFRED HERBERT LTD.,
Machina Tool Makers and Importers. Coventry. England,
Telephones: City 10109, 10110.
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “T.atlie,” Sydney.
Codes Used: jLieber’s, Western Union and Private.
57 GEORGE STREET NORTH, CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
STOCKOWNERS!
Would it not pay you to be in a posi-
tion to personally deal with sickness
or accident among your stock?
Think of the many occasions when the
right Veterinary Instrument or Appli-
ance on the spot would save the worry,
expense and delay of sending for a
Vet.
Our Catalogue brings to your notice
many Veterinary Items that you could
profitably invest in—items that, while
embodying the most scientific con-
struction, are safe and easy to use by
persons not possessed of extensive
Veterinary knowledge.
Can you afford to be without them?
Write for our catalogue sent free on
receipt of your address.
Denyer’s
Milk Fever
Outfit.
B=»
po
Sterilised Air Treatment
This treatment for Milk Fever has
proved successful in 96.7 per cent, of
oases treated. Complete outfit, consist-
ing of Patent Pump and all Accessories,
with full directions for operating,
packed in neat case and priced at
ONLY 15/-. Postage Otl.
DENYER BROS.,
VETERINARY SPECIALISTS,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
sdf
iisa
oiiiikiiiiiinm
i
J.V-2 9.
<\no tA bacon.veal
tongue
You Can Save all These
Save money, work and worry
and yet serve an enticing, satis-
fy i g and wholesome meal that
evergone will reallg enjoy with
“REX”
CAMP PIE
—the housewife’s biggest help
in so’ving t 10 big problems —
Ki chen work, and H.C.L.
It is all ready to serve when
you bug it. A dainty, appetis-
ing meat delicacy, perfect v
cooked —invitingly prepared.
Try it to-d iy for all meals at
home, picnics, week-end camps,
and Sandwiches.
Sold by all Stores
Everywhere
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LIMITED
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Produc s
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon
J 1216
the GHOST
FROM YOUR CAR.
d
Many a motoring party touring
through the country is haunted
by an unseen passenger—
FEAR-DREAD that a tyre will
blow out and land the motor-
car at the roadside, a helpless
thing.
But if you have faith in the
Tyres on your car, CON-
TENTED SECURITY is the
invisible passenger riding with
you.
And if you have ridden on
GOODRICH Tyres, you have
faith in their big, husky bodies,
and tough, thick, SAFETY
TREADS, extra wide, fortify-
ing the sidewall against rut
grinding.
You have faith in their depend-
ability everywhere, and the
durability which rounds out the
SERVICE VALUE of all
GOODRICH TYRES.
Let Your Next Tyre
be a GOODRICH.
DUVAL CO
13 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
124 RUSSELL STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Horsham House, Adelaide St.,
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 41.—N0. 20SS.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1920.
rjuca 6d.
AT THE END OP THE ROAD.
THE BANNER-BEARER: “I dunno that I quite like the look of the place now we’ve got here!"


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 2X4 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to ant
address in Australasia, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
,1000 words, are specially asbeptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bui
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. IVhen MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it 'vill be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if nsl acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Tun Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand ‘hat it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and WL.'te.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted f or
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail , from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.I/ ;
Ij. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.I/.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; International House,
h lierk Street, Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban,
and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationci-y Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Jjbt Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Boston Hat Works, Eighth Avenue,
West Calgary, Canada.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; J.
Roland Kay Co., 181/9 Conway Buildings, Chicago,
U.S.A.; Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington,
U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth Avenue and 27 th Street, New
York; Queen City News Co., Randolph and Clark
Streets, Chicago; Golden Gate News Agency, 719
Market Street, Chicago; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —-John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Per era, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samaria and Kulamadan
and Port Moresby.
Fiji. —A Barker, Suva; F. Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : 'Throughout the Commomcealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
l\d. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; B\oz. to 10oz., Sd.;
lOoz. to 120 z., S%d.; elsewhere, Jjoz., lid., and Id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1920.
OUR PETTED SLUMS.
The Royal Commission on the Basic Wage,
like other talented bodies that went before
it, naturally fell over the slum question.
It woke up the sleeping and insanitary
animal, especially in the two big cities. The
animal was found even in Melbourne, yet
Melbourne is newer than Sydney, rather
smaller, started with wider streets in con-
sequence of which it spreads over more
ground, and has a much better building site,
not being cut up in all directions by arms
of the sea. One region in squalid Richmond
was found to answer to the name of the
Valley of Death, and others were spoken
of with the disrespect which attaches
to Surry Hills in Sydney. A serious ques-
tion was raised whether a slum is a place
that is overcrowded and dirty or merely a
place that is overcrowded, but the stories
told of 13 people camped in a four-roomed
house suggested that no amount of cleanli-
ness would save such places from slumdom.
The usual crop of town-planners, housing
commissioners, preachers, philanthropic doc-
tors and so on said, with a little more energy
than usual, when the Basic Wage Commis-
sion had blown past, that things Required
to be Done. And as general conversation
and fluffy benevolence go a very short way
it is best to get the situation into focus and
see what ideal is aimed at. It seems to be
something as follows: —
(1) To promote the growth of the two existing big
State capitals and the three smaller ones (Hobart
is hardly in the race), and bring more business
there and gather more and more population round
their business centres.
(2) At the same time, and especially as regards
the biggest and most progressive city, to double, the
width of some of the sti-eets and thus spread the
residential part of the place over nearly twice the
area; to replace two- and three-storey tenements by
cottages which would again double 'the residential
area as far as a very large proportion of the people
are concerned; to have a decent breathing space
round each house, and fewer people in a room.
(3) To find, somehow, about eight or 12 times
the present amount of money for road-making and
cleaning and maintenance, as there would be about
eight or 12 or event 16 times as many square yards
of road as at present to each inhabitant. At the
6ame time rents are not to go up.
(4) To practically rebuild vast residential quarters
and to build new ones with the cost at least twice
as high as when the old slums were built —also
without increasing rents.
(5) To put people on the average about twice as
far as at present from the business centre and yet get
them there and home again in the old time and
at the old price.
* * * *
Sydney, even with its present population,
if the population is spread out hygienically
to even a moderate extent, will require four
tram-lines in many streets instead of two,
and in other streets two in place of one.
One-half will be an express service which
will run over everybody, and the other an
ordinary frequent-stop service as at present
which will only run over the rest of the
people. When the Ma State metropolis
attains to 2,000,000 population, which at
the present rate will be about 1045 or 1050,
it will probably want eight lines in many
streets unless there is a gigantic reconstruc-
tion. The city and suburban surface rail-
way, when it is constructed at vast expense,
will be a little relief, but it will also take
up a lot of space and thus drive population
further out. Other cities, including London,
Glasgow, New York and Chicago, have been
surface-railwayed to a wonderful extent, and
the congestion hasn't been much diminished
thereby. The brightest insniration so far,
if a community must have big cities —either
because the country is overcrowded or be-
cause of a diseased craving for congestion
and slums —is to build a railway system
underground. In London this tunnelling has
been done with such enthusiasm that in
places there are three underground roads
one below the other. The cost of doing mole
work is heavy. Sydney’s little Darling
Harbor branch-line cost £589.532 per mile,
and it isn’t really underground ; also, it
was built with cheap labor in 1855. London
opened its first underground railway as far
back as 18G4. Owing to the cost, though
labor didn’t run to many shillings per week,
it has been a ghastly failure ever since, pay-
ing in later vears 1 per cent. The more
up-to-date electric co. has lately scraped out
dividends varying from 12s. 6d. to £1 ss.
per cent. None of the London lines were
built at war wages or even at Australian
peace wages, or with materials imported
from the other side of the world or with
money borrowed at 5f per cent. The New
York subway system, also the New York
overhead system, though constructed in
peace time and largely with the aid of cheap
immigrant labor, have gone broke unani-
mously and are in the hands of receivers. Yet
New York didn’t built with 5| per cent,
loans either. What sort of disaster any
Australian subterranean railway system
would be at the present price of loans, labor
and imported materials, when all the sur-
face railway systems, mostly built in the
days of cheapness, are unable to pay their
way, passes imagination.
* * * *
No one knows why Australia, with less
than two persons to the square mile, wants
big centres full of slum problems and traffic
problems. The idea of being driven to con-
template two- or three-tier cities with one
tier above ground and the rest cellar or cata-
comb, while there is a whole continent of
out-of-doors waiting settlement, is amazing.
Outside its State capitals the Commonwealth
has one person to the square mile. Svdney
is bigger than the capital cities of Spain,
Italy, Bavaria, Saxony, Norway, Switzer-
land, Belgium, Holland, Sweden, Portugal,
Canada and Denmark; probably it is bigger
now than the capital of Russia. South Africa
with more people than all Australia has no
bloated centre with one-sixth the population
of Sydney. Canada has nearly twice the
population of Australia and more than four
times that of N. S. Wales, and its biggest
effort is not much more than half Sydney’s
dimensions. Big cities are expensive places
to live in, and if they have to support dupli-
cate catacomb cities underground they
become very expensive. If N. S. Wales and
Victoria would set up new centres at places
like Portland, Westernport. Twofold Bay,
Jervis Bav Port Stephens, the Clarence and
many inland spots, with the deLbm-ate
purpose of attracting the crowd away from
the slums of Richmond and Surry Hills, and
from all the regions adjacent, then people
might be able to walk to their work and
save tram fares, and they would live more
simply and cheaply and under better condi-
tions, and subterranean railway questions
could be pn^^nofl
THE OLD-RUT ELECTION.
Nothing more steady and reliable in the
way of plodding along an ancient rut can
be imagined than the policy which Premier
Holman has announced for the N.S.W. elec-
tions on March 20—nothing, that is, save the
policy already outlined by Opposition-leader
Storey, who is buried in the same loan-rut,
but plods harder, seeing that he has only
to deal in promises while the man in office
has to show some shred of performance.
State politics have become a swapping of
office among very old men—old in routine
if not in years, and as groovy as the
etiquette of a minor German court in the old
days when nothing happened there, save
pomp and scandal and old-wives’ gossip. This
is the diary of the regulation State Minister
in these times of melancholy and ordinari-
ness :
Monday : Got up; borrowed; went to bed.
Tuesday : Got up ; made speech; borrowed; went
to bed. „
Wednesday: Got up; opened loan work; borrowed;
went to bed.
Thursday : Got up; laid the foundation-stone of
loan work; borrowed; went to bed.
Friday: Being off-color, borrowed in bed.
And to the end of the dog-eared volume.
The Premier, searching hungrily for some
object on which he could pour out bis wealth
of motherly or grandmotherly or maiden-
auntly affection, and advertise the benevo-
lence'of his Government at the cost of the
taxpayer or the lender, fixed on the local
infant. This idea isn't exactly new, being
only a variant of the baby bonus, but it
shows up the monthly-nurse or Sarah Gamp
side of the Ministerial character, and tends
to make a good impression in certain circles.
Holman’s Government is the kind that
would gladly give away anybody else’s boots
to the unshod —especially Posterity’s boots.
Under this plan an endowment —not appa-
rently a mere bonus to help cover confine-
ment expenses, but more like a pension—is to
be given, in addition to the Federal allow-
ance, for everv child after the second one.
It is to be paid for the third infant in each
family, and then for every one up to the
87th. That means that it will be payable on
about IS,OOO new infants ner annum, and
more when the population increases. If it is
anything of an allowance or pension the bill
will be considerable. The idea, like that of
the Federal baby bonus, has much to recom-
mend it in the case of the impecunious infant,
but when it is paid to rich and poor alike,
on the plea that it is a disgrace to be honestly
poor and a credit to be dishonestly rich,
any kind of bonus becomes a burden. Also
so long as old-age and invalid pensions aren't
paid to the rich, and so long as men strike
on the ground that they are poor in propor-
tion to the cost of living, it is illogical. Aus-
tralia can’t afford the luxury of being illo-
gical just now. The next thing on the pro-
gramme that dimly resembles a novelty is the
proposal to spend £2,000.000 of loan money
on repairs to the State’s too-numerous roads,
which themselves in many cases represent
loan money. Still no loan scheme is really
novel. The scheme for compensating the
whole liquor interest out of loans in the event
of Prohibition being carried, and paying
interest on the loan's out of loans, still holds
good, but that emergency is still some little
distance away. Quite a large railway-build-
ing programme is proposed out of loans,
though many old lines built when interest
and wages and material cost little more than
half the present rates lose more and more
money every year, and though these cheap
lines were built in much more promising
places than some of the present projects.
They are becoming much dearer lines now as
the old debts fall due and have to be renewed
at high rates, and the amount of railway—
especially very dear railway—that a com-
munity has any profitable use for is limited.
There were 881 people to patronise each
mile of N. S. Wales railway in 1880, and
there are only about 420 now. Seven hydro-
electric schemes of vast cost and extent are
also on the programme; these are to supply
power for the factories and works which
it is the policy of the congestion party to
prevent being anywhere except possibly at
Sydney. It is further proposed to put 3400
soldiers on the land, presumably by the
simple device of giving them no other place to
go to, and presumably also at the usual
charge of £7OO to £IOOO apiece of loan money.
There they will grow temperate-climate pro-
duce for which there is often no adequate
local demand, so that much of it has to be
sent away 12,000 miles by profiteers’ ships
which eat it up en route. In addition to
putting people on the land £1,000,000 is to be
found to help the ruined folk who are on
the land already. So as to make as sure as
possible that people will have to go on the
land with the help of loans through lack of
self-supporting industries to work in, Hol-
man’s interest in manufactures is confined
to experiments in paper-making and some
shipbuilding. But whether the amount to be
invested in these two mere side-shows is large
or small isn’t even mentioned. Being manu-
factures they are of small account.
Decentralisation has the usual flourish,
but the old gang at Sydney is still
to try to rule an area nearly three
times the size of the Bx-itish Isles. The
threads of the web are to be extended further,
but they are all to finish at Holman’s desk.
The Home Rule idea hasn’t struck Holman,
and it is no more use trying to explain it to
him than it would have been to explain
Socialism to Louis XIV., the man who said
he was the State. Holman is a city pro-
duct and a man of one city, an Australian
Cockney of the purest Cockneydom, a
Pharisee of the brick-and-mortar type, and he
will be the ideal oldest village inhabitant
when he is old enough. Natui’ally being
what he is, there is no mention in his pro-
gramme about the finding of the money to
pay for his megalomaniac schemes —his
maternity homes, bonuses or pensions to
children, interest on his road-patching loans,
grants to ruined fanners, and losses on his
great railways out where there are eight di’y
persons to 100 dry square miles. But he
says proudly that Australia ought to be
grateful to persons like himself because
State peace taxation has only inci’eased
about £2 per head per annum since 1914
only about doubled, in fact —in addition to
increased railway and tramway fares and
other sundries. Australia isn’t exuberantly
grateful. It has always been told that its
debt was invested in permanent and
reproductive works, so it imagined that some
day the profits from their repi’oductiveness
would reduce its tax burdens. Being told
that its people should be grateful that the
burdens have only doubled, and that the lie
and fraud might be a gi’eat deal worse, the
emotion isn’t so much gratitude as astonish-
ment. Australia’s new life and its new hope
will begin with the abolition of the loan
policy—not the stoppage of loans and
works, but the stoppage of loans and the
prosecution of works all the same. But the
old political parties must be dead first and
politically buried.
THE ’BIDGEE WHALER PARTY.
A great hero died —not in the flesh but out
of the membership of the congregation—when
Ulianov, of Russia, whose stage name is
Lenin, and his nominal Government, which
is mostly himself, issued the famous 12-hours-
work ukase. An effort will doubtless be
made for a while to keep the god on his
pedestal and to pretend that he wasn’t a
huge delusion and hasn’t gone back on the
new Australian Labor leaders’ supreme doc-
trine of Loaf, but he can never be the same
god again.
The strenuous Lenin’s new policy is
quite understandable. Russia was always
a backward country, partly because too
little work was done by reason of
innumerable religious holidays, and partly
because the work was often done ignorantly,
crudely and stupidly, and partly for other
reasons. It wasn’t so backward industrially
as Australia, but it had much to learn. The
war grievously damaged its industries. Then
the revolution struck it in sundry places. The
educated classes, the managers, organisers,
industrial leaders, inventors, artists, scient-
ists—all except the horny-headed sons of toil
—were deprived of all share in the Govern-
ment and practically outlawed. In one way
and another most of them vanished, and in
the eloquent language of the One Big Union
the workshops were “taken over” and every-
thing else was “taken over” and put under
the control of committees of the least quali-
fied. Then working hours were cut down to
six per day under the impression, shared by
many Loafer leaders in Australia, that under
a regime of Liberty and Paper Money work
is almost unnecessary because clothes grow
on trees and drops from heaven or rises
out of sheol. It took perhaps six months to
eat and drink and dissipate the accumulated
stocks. Next there was famine. Finally
the Government, having gathered strength,
has broken the news to the community that
the period even of comparative loafing is at
an end —that it was a delusion from the
first (though a very convenient one, as it
landed certain persons in power), and that
dashed hard, compulsory, conscripted work,
and a lot of it, must be the order of the day.
There are arrears to be made up and losses
to be repaired, a very highly-skilled and
industrious people working with the best
machinery may earn enough to maintain a
fairly high civilisation on six hours’ daily
toil. A race of low industrial development,
like the Russians and the Australians, de-
voted mostly to raw-material-producing,
after the manner of the Indian ryot or the
Egyptian fellah, requires more like 10 or
12 hours’ work.
Same of the Australian States, their
credit having not yet quite burst, keep
the loafing boom afloat bv borrowing
as much as £6 per inhabitant per
annum, and John Storey, leader of the
N. S. Wales Loafing or Sundowner party, says
it is too little. So does Ryan, who organises
for the Murrumbidgee Whaler or Down Tools
element in Federal politics. Russia, how-
ever, has realised and used up in IS garish
months most of the advantages and profits,
whatever they may be, to be gained by con-
fiscating capital, nationalising works, lands,
mines and forests, repudiating the public
debt and making an absolutely unlimited
issue of paper money. Being unable to bor-
row £600,000,000 a year on the Holman
scale to live on. it gets down to compulsory
toil for a wonderful number of hours per
week. The Government of two men and a
shadow anticipates opposition by setting
Labor delegates and such-like conscientious
objectors to sudden employment. A Govern-
ment with a strong army, obedient revolu-
tionary . tribunals, Chinese executioners and
a cowed people can do things to conscien-
tious objects. It can set Garden to carry-
ing bricks and Brookfield to digging drains
and Judd to loading ships, for in the Repub-
lic of the Horny-handed these talkers must
become horny or be disqualified and perish.
It is possible that Ulianov (stage-name
Lenin) and co. are overdoing the gospel of
toil. The line they take is strictly logical,
for a commonwealth of workers pure and
simple must, as soon as it gets into its
stride, abolish the trade of the super-
abundant person who struggles only with his
jaw. It doesn’t need paid protesters against
capital, for there is none. It harnesses the
leaders of the One Big Union to a cart
because, everything being organised, the job
of the organiser is finished, and it harnesses
them extra-carefully because they look like
the sort of people who might agitate against
the republic, agitation being a habit with
them. The kind of men who were allowed
to babble the other day at Melbourne Trades
Hall about revolution against the People’s
Federal Government of Australia are likely
to get short notice and prompt burial in
Russia if their conscripted daily job doesn’t
subdue their spirits. Still, however neces-
sary it may be to keep such people employed,
and however great the need for production,
the new policy seems a case of rushing to
extremes. It also suggests the opening of a
bottomless gulf between the Bolshevik revolu-
tion and Australia’s Loafer, Sundowner or
Murrumbidgee Whaler party which is now
called Labor only because its new leaders
make the diminution of labor, and the stop-
page of labor and the floating of loans as
a substitute for labor, and the closing-up of
production, and the handing over of our
markets to the foreign profiteer the five gods
of their pantheon. In practically every one
of the three disputes which happen per day
there is a demand for fewer hours of work
and for day work instead of piecework with
a view to producing less per hour. Even
the 36-hour labor week on which the Rus-
sian Republic, now the Russian semi-slave
or Conscript Labor Republic, was stranded,
because it couldn’t borrow £G per head per
year (say, £600.000,000) to keep the jest
going, is said to be overwork here, and a
30-hour slow week with still bigger loans is
talked of. It isn’t even professed that that
is the end; all that is known is that the
movement can’t go beyond the no-liour and
all-loan week.
The supremely exasnerating point is
that no amount of persuasion will bring
forth a statement of where the profits
or advantages or pleasures of all this fever-
ish loafing come in. It is merely assumed
as a self-evident proposition that less -work
and least work and no work at all —that
lifelong confinement with all the world for a.
cell and nothing to do save brood and kill
time and go mad —is the supreme happiness,
just as other people assume the self-evident
proposition of the divine right of kings and
aristocrats. Australia now possesses all
that tne original Russian Republic aimed at
—self-government in the widest sense, per-
sonal freedom in the widest sense, personal
security and no privileged class. It is urged
to take up the parable where the Russian
anarchy started. That is to say, it may
create a privileged class of manual workers,
who soon cease to be privileged through the
disappearance of the other classes. It can
restrict the franchise. It can spend 18
months in free disagreement and untram-
melled row and in eating and drinking up
the fleeting profits of ill-managed confisca-
tion. Then it can emerge about 1922 into
Lenin’s desert of hard work, where most


things have to be started afresh, where theie
is no credit and no more remittances from
foreign profiteers to subsidise the stop-work
leaders who prevent Australian industry get-
ting in the profiteers’ road, and where there
is very little room for ambition, and the
organiser’s job is finished, for everything is
organised, and toil is compulsory. In tact,
Australia can do many things and find a
very robust dictatorship at the end of them,
provided some outside Power doesn’t tall on
its handful of coastal population, and squash
its revolution and its institutions togetner.
In the way of leaving off work and living
luxuriously on nothing, the Russian Bol-
shevik theory was only a pale shadow of
that advanced by some leaders of this coun-
try’s Loafer, Sundowner or Murrumbidgee
Whaler party.
OLD RED.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Profiteers in Lancashire and Australia.
The British, a folk who hardly know what
it is to be really profiteered by outsiders,
though they are beginning to learn, are mak-
ing a fuss about the profits of the Lancashire
cotton spinners. They make a tempestuous
accusation that the magnates in this busi-
ness have been netting as much as 30 times
the profit fixed by the War Office as a fair
thing. The magnates reply that they never
made more than 24 times the War Office
idea of a fair tiling. But even if it was
30 times and not 24 what is J. Bull (bless
his innocent heart!) complaining about? The
half or one-third of the excess profits which
were made by selling profiteered cottons to
Bull himself were spent in Bull’s country
and he got the benefit of it somehow. The
half or two-thirds which were made by pro-
fiteering in countries like Australia were also
spent in Bull’s country, and he got the
benefit of that too. Apparently Australia is
the place that should be making a fuss, and
in a sense it is. That is to say, every cheap
politician shouts against the profiteer and
points by way of illustration at some little
local coal-mine or factory or oil-shale indus-
try which is making from nothing up to 12-1
per cent., and the cheap politician refuses
to cease howling until some sort of calamity
strikes it. The I.WAV. arsonists now in
gaol ivere merely a crude expression of this
policy. They understood that the enemy and
profiteer and oppressor was always the local
man—the man who could be easily reached.
The man out of sight—the foreign manufac-
turer and shipowner—was never pointed out
to them as the overwhelming looter or as
any looter at all. So in their simple way the
I.WAV. persons set fire to the premises of
the man in sight. The distant and real pro-
fiteer, being beyond our laws and our vitu-
peration, can only be dealt with by patient
constructive industry—by making our own
goods and our own ships and taking the
market from him. When the community
realises this it will hire constructive men in
place of mere shouters, and these latter over-
paid patriots will find thei'r true level at
simple toil; wherefore they naturally don’t
raise the big, urgent question. In the cotton
business the position of Australia is wonder-
ful. This is a country capable of growing
cotton, which Britain isn’t, yet it neither
grows nor manufactures. It is almost the
only white man’s country in the world which
does neither, and which is in consequence
wholly at the mercy of the outside pro-
fiteer and the importer. Despite its million
and more square miles of tropical country,
it isn t known, either, as a supplier of coffee,
rubber or sugar. In fact, it hasn’t started
a big new industry of any sort save railway
building since the loan-boom began in real
earnest, but has plodded along in the old
groove—sheep, oxen, wheat, the digging-up
of capital in the shape of minerals and a
few simple sundries. Even when the rent
of ships and the price of cotton goods were
put up several hundred per cent.' as a sign
that there were gold-mines in these indus-
tries, and the price of loans was put un
DO per cent, and imported materials rose 100
per cent, to warn it off its old loan and
public-works habit, it refused, and still
refuses, to deviate from the rut. The Sphinx
of Egypt is a ballet-dancer in her craving
for change compared with the Australian
of the loan years.
The Queensland Deficit.
Interesting points crop out numerouslv in
the newly-published financial statement of
Treasurer (now Premier) Theodore of
Queensland. The Northern State had the
shortage habit badly in old times, but it
more or less reformed and for 11 years before
Ryan some of the old deficit was paid off.
T-i 1 o!L? YAN ’ hel P ed b y Theodore, added
£2,388,000 per annum to the expenditure and
set out to have a big'shortage every year.
By his own showing he raised taxation from
28s. 2d. to 795. lOd. per inhabitant per
annum ; yet the deficits grew all the same.
Ryan and Theodore required no phosphate
to grow a shortage. They could raise that
vegetable on a tin roof in a desert. What
they were really capable of as cultivators the
railways show. Queensland divides its
railways into eight systems. Two small
isolated ones, Cooktown and Normanton,
weren’t paying working charges, let alone
anything towards interest, when Ryan and
Theodore took command. Thev succeeded
in making them much worse. Three of the
other systems—Mackay, Bowen and Cairns
—which had been paying working expenses
and part of their interest, were promptly
reduced to a point at Avhich they didn’t buy
their own coal and axle-grease. The big
southern division (2549 miles) was the
standby of the whole system. and in the last
year before Ryan it yielded £853.903 above
working expenses. In other words it paid
and the entire interest IrU and
£27,295 over. In four years this profit has
been turned into a loss of £824,542.
Premier Denham in 1914-15 made the
whole network, even including the isolated
scraps at Cooktown and Normanton, get
within £1903 of covering full interest and
expenses. Bv 1918-19 the loss was no less
than £1,432,109. The loss on all the works ard
enterprises ef the State —railways, dock and
sundries —after nayinq working expenses ard
interest was £26 T 852 under Denham and
absorbed £3 345. sd. per cent, of the revenue.
Moreover, it was only half as much in
Denham’s last year as in his first. Ryan
and Theodore not merely stopped the
improvement: they raised the loss to
£1,928,057, and it absorbed £2O 9s. 7d. per
cent, of the much bigger revenue. The part-
nership had such a capacity for ill-luck that
Crcesus at his best would have been
fortunate to pay 6d. in the £ with Ryan
as his vizier and Edward G. Theodore as
his treasurer. What they would have done
if they had been in high Federal office, play-
ing the ancient game of bumble-puppy with
the Commonwealth Bank, the gold reserve
against notes, the note issue, the coinage
and the compulsory loans, it passes the wit
of man to conceive. Nevertheless the Labor
party seriously wants to put Ryan there so
that the glittering razzle of his doings may
leave the Apocalypse at the post and cause
Daniel’s vision to be disqualified for not
trying.
♦
Least, But Not Last.
Tasmania’s electoral law permits a State
member to contest a Federal seat without
losing his local job, the Governor simply
delaying the issue of the writ to fill the
vacancy until the Federal contest is con-
cluded ; and though the system is not
absolutely perfect, its advantages are quite
substantial enough to warrant its adoption
in the other States which have accepted the
“quota” idea. The Tas. method, to all in-
tents and purposes, abolishes by-elections,
thereby removing the one serious blot from
proportional representation. And it is a
good riddance, for under triennial Parlia-
ments the usefulness of oy-elections was never
conspicuous, while the running of such con-
tests over the huge areas comprised in six-
member electorates is an expensive absur-
dity like constructing a Bumnjuck dam to
damp a postage-stamp or sifting a sandhill
to find a shirt-button. In this and other
commonsense electoral reforms the Speck,
despite the pathetic affection with which it
clings to some of the quaint survivals of its
Vandemouian era, is at least ten years ahead
of the rest of the Commonwealth. Ever
siuce 1909 the State Assembly and Federal
rolls have been one (though a few dozen per-
sons whose names are on the Federal roll
are not permitted to vote at State elections) ;
the five State divisions (each returning six
members) are identical as to name and
boundary with the Federal, and the same
officials, ballot-boxes and other machinery
operate at both State and Federal elections.
Practically the only bit of •electoral gear
tnat does not do double duty is the simple
little calculating machine which the return-
ing-officer uses in State counts to economise
time and wear and tear of pencils and paper
in figuring out fractional transfer-values,
etc. Though a redistribution of seats in
the Island is a bit overdue (Wilmot division,
with about 15,000 voters, returns as many
members to the State Assembly as Franklin
and Denison with over 20,000 each), it is
probable that the present boundaries and the
present voting system and electoral methods
will be considered quite satisfactory to the
Islanders for a good while yet; at any rate,
until the other States nearly catch up. Then
perhaps the furiously go-ahead Speck will
pioneer another experiment in Parliamentary
science, such as basing; representation, not on
alleged sections of political principle con-
tained within certain territorial boundaries,
as at present, but on the various interests
embodied in democratically-conducted indus-
tries. Already the Speck’s reform leaders
are arguing that if Australia, in common
with other countries, including Russia, is
booked to try a measure of industrial con-
trol of industry, the islet’s compact and
State-owned railway system, its limited but
fairly uniform city-owned tramways, and
its unique hydro-electric department all offer
opportunities for the experiment second to
none in the widespread Commonwealth. And,
of course, if the State’s industries are indus-
trially bossed, it follows that Parliament
will evolve into a sort of Conference of De-
partments or Business Board, where the
Speaker will keep order in his own dungarees
and whiskers instead of in an inherited wig
and gown and ancient dignity, and every
Ministerial portfolio will stand on its own
bottom. That the sticklers for the bicameral
system will be found supporting this reformed
Parliamentary system is- reckoned by no
means as uncertain as the weather, for in
those days a second Chamber may possess a
reasonable excuse for existence, not as a
House of Review or a House of Landlords,
but as a body whose job it will be to make
and unmake the general laws, such as those
dealing with divorce, education, lighting fires
on Crown lands, taxation, immigration,
health, police, branding of stock, hawkers’
licenses, picture plays, overcrowding in
churches, etc., which the House of Industrial
Affairs will be too busy to attend to. If
these and similar changes are to be brought
about in Australia, it is pretty certain that
they will originate in the small and handy
State, and not in any of the larger States
or even in a unified Commonwealth Parlia-
ment. All the other Australian legislatures
are liable to talk a new idea to death, for
all possess Hansards. The Speck Parlia-
ment has never had a Hansard.
Art and Julian Ashton.
The fine arts in Australia have grown like
pale and sickly plants on small patches of
poor soil, almost hidden from the public
eye by the vigorous and widespread growth
of those things which relate to material
needs. That was inevitable in a young
democracy. For a century after the first
settlement here the only art produced was
imitative of that of Europe. Gordon and
Kendall struck the first faint notes in
verse of the Australian literature to be;
otherwise they and the others borrowed
theme and style from English literature.
The painters, with scarcely an exception,
portrayed Australia as if it were a part of
Europe. Towards the end of the century
two or three things happened which hastened
the development of a national, art and
literature. So far as the graphic arts are
concerned, the publication of the Pictur-
esque Atlas of Australia, the arrival of
“Hop” ard Phil May, and the begimrng
of Jultan Ashton’s career as a teacher
stand out as events inauguratin'” a new era.
Julian 'Asttton arrived in Melbourne in
1 879, and spread th“ doctrine of open-air
pvnt'ng he had acquired in Paris. Moving
over to Sydney he became pres’dent of the
Art Society in ISS6 and. opened, classes
which still continue. For the last 40-odd
years he has been painting and teaching
others to paint. At the same time, when-
ever the opportunity offered, he has spoken
and wi'itten in support of Art’s claims upon
public recognition, in encouragement of a
pi-omising artist or against academic
methods of teaching art. He was ever a
fighter, and so at the opening last week of
the memorial exhibition in Sydney of his
own and ins students’ work he had one
fight more—if not the best, probably the
last. He claimed that the State neglected
spiritual ideals, and attended only to
matex’ial ends; he declared that the great-
ness of a nation is not measured by its
production of wool or wheat, and ‘‘without
vision the people perish.” On the walls of
the exhibition were some evidences of what
he' had done and what he had taught dui'ing
the infancy of Australian art. The pictures
summarise the first stage in its develop-
ment. Ashton’s own work is that of a
capable craftsman on the right path, but
not able to travel so far as the younger
men who followed him. Conder and Tom
Roberts, as influences upon Streeton, and
Streeton for his actual accomplishment,
are the true pioneers of Australian land-
scape; Sid Long, Hildeh, Davies, Mclnnes
and Gruner in their respective ways have
ably followed. Lambert has reached a high
place in the treatment of the figure, hut he
left Australia so long ago that we can hardly
claim his present work nor that of Bertram
Mackennal, the sculptor. Longstaff’s
portraiture is the best that has been done
here, while Norman Lindsay, entirely an
Australian product, has surpassed all others
of his time in pen-drawing. It is not too
much to say that all the artists of this period
owe something to Julian Ashton for direc-
tion or encouragement. He has never tried
to impose formulae or traditions, but has
always taught that each should express him-
self sincerely. And in fighting for pub-
lic recognition and encouragement of
art he has fought their battle and made the
way easier for the next generation. Because
that invaluable work of the veteran has been
recognised by some of his friends, an exhi-
bition of his own work and the paintings
of his colleagues and students was arranged
in order to do him public honor before it is
too late. The form of the testimonial is
more appropriate than the usual banquet
or address; but the best reward that a
man like Julian Ashton can nave for his
work is the knowledge that the interest
taken by the public in Australian art is
immeasurably greater now than it was when
he began his splendid crusade.
A Fresh Menace to the Co-re. Business.
“Lex” discusses a recent decision:—
Mr. Justice McCardie has delivered a Divorce
judgment in London which Jooks like producing
undesirable reactions. He laid down, inter alia: —
(1) That the Court had no right to punish miscon-
duct, and damages should never be punitive.
(2) That if the wife was of wanton disposition
this lessened her value.
The first proposition follows logically on the point
which the same authority established in a previous
judgment—that a husband has no property in his
\vife. Physically she is her own mistress and may
cohabit with whom she pleases. Within the lifetime
of many who are not particularly old—to be explicit,
63 years ago—a woman was very much the property
of her husband. Anyone who wanted a divorce had
first to get a decree a mensa et thoro from the
Church, and after an expensive Common Law suit,
have a special Act put through both Houses. After
Bethell’s Act became operative duelling practically
fell dead. Duelling and loose manners had always
gone together (compare the duelling figures for the
Restoration and the Puritan periods), and 75 per
cent, of duels “to the death” were over women. For
the past half-century wronged husbands have been
content to pink their betrayers’ banking accounts,
often with ruinous effect; while the wronged wives
have had the comfort of seeing their rivals socially
destroyed.
The trouble with Justice McCardie’s admirably
logical pronouncements is that they disregard the
human-nature factor. Of course a man should have
no physical monopoly of his wife. But how many
possess the legal training and the frigid mental
detachment necessary to grasp the point? To most
men who are not lawyers, and even to many who
are, their wives represent very particular property
indeed. It is safer, physically, to interfere with the
average man’s silver than with his wife. And Courts,
less aloof and academic than that which is presided
over by Justice McCardie, have mostly recognised
the reasonableness of the principle. When in 1917
Lieut. Malcolm shot Anton Baumberg, alias Count
De Borch, for carrying-on with Mrs. Malcolm, the
Coroner wept and the jury acquitted, though Malcolm
scorned to deny that he was guilty. The thing was
not done in the heat of the moment: it was as
deliberate as an execution. And it is but one of
hundreds of cases that have occurred all over the
Empire. Conceive that a householder had tracked
down and shot in his bed one who had stolen or
damaged his watch —or 500 watches. There would
be no tears for him. If he wasn’t consigned to an
asylum he would suffer the Law’s utmost penalty.
Damages must not be “punitive,” and where the
wife is “of wanton disposition” they will presumably
be nil. This disregards one of the platitudes of
psychology—a matter which has been the wonder and
despair of moralists for 5000 years. There is no
necessary relation between virtue and affection.
Some of the most-prized women in history have been
wantons — Cleopatra, Aspasia, Helen, Diane de
Poitiers and Lady Hamilton. The first husband of
Mrs. Atherton, who shot herself last year, only
divorced her under pressure, and it was said at the
inquest that he would have re-married her. Lieut.
Malcolm took lack his wife, and he is still with
her. It is the bitter truth that many a man suffers
agonies of grief and rage in being deprived of a
beautiful, though not necessarily chaste, wife, whereas
he would experience little more than mild surprise
if someone robbed him of a lady whose virtue was
only equalled by her plainness. Such is our
miserable human nature; and allowances have to be
made for it. If the wronged husband is cheated of
his last vestige of legal satisfaction—that of bank-
rupting, or thereabouts, the Don Juan of his domestic
drama —then he may be depended upon to take
matters into his own hands. Wherever any law is
opposed to popular feeling or to the public interest
it is treated with contempt. Juries will certainly
approve of murder in certain “crimes of passion”
under the threatened order of things. To get an
acquittal the husband will merely have to show
that, the Divorce Laws being as they are, he had
no other redress against the man who broke up his
home.
In short, Justice McCardie’s ultra-modern point of
view is so much ahead...of his time that, as often
happens in such cases, it promises to effect reaction.
The husbands appear to be prejudiced. Ir. point of
fact, if there is such a body as the Amalgamated
Co-respondents’ Union of the British Empire, it
ought to begin framing its petition o£ protest
without delay.
Immigration.
“A Mere European” writes:—
The Hon. It. Bedford, of Queensland, pro-
fesses to believe in the necessity lor immigration to
Australia (B. 5/2/’2O). But he accompanies this
profession with ideas which, if adopted, must pre-
vent immigration in the future as effectually as at
present. The worst of it is that the ideas of this
if.L.C. are very much the ideas of the legislating
crowd in Australia. They are exclusive, narrow and
shortsighted.
The subject of immigration has apparently been so
well administered by Australian Governments in the
past that Mr. Biidfokd belie.es in more Government
management or mismanagement. Government by
Commissions is so good that immigration must be
managed by another political Commission. Nobody
in Australia is to be allowed the right of bringing
anyone into Australia, not even his brother or sister,
from the United Kingdom or Europe, unless a Com-
mission composed of one or two doctors (most
probably quacks) and some artists (most probably
bounders) approves of the brother or sister on the
score of youth, beauty, strength and brains. If they
are not as beautiful as (say) Mr. Randolph Bedford
himself, or as any other politician (say Mr. Hughes
or Mr. Ryan), the immigrant has no chance. Is it
fair to insist upon this very high beauty test? Is
it not hard upon merely common mankind ?
Mr. Bedford lias prejudices, racial, class and
caste. The English are not much as a race, so Mr.
Bedford would exclude them from Australia. But
he would give way to a certain extent in favor of
Italians, who, he tells us, know nothing about
mining, but go in for sculpture and painting. And
he would admit the French, because the French
prefer France to any other country, and don’t want
to come to Australia, and won’t come at all. But
Australians- —Mr. Bedford is one of them—are so
vastly superior to all other races on the earth that
they should go slow in immigration lest numbers of
people come here not so good as them, and lower
the standard of civilisation. But if Australians are
so superior to the rest of mankind, why should they
only control the door to Australia, amd keep Aus-
tralia closed? Why should not this race of super-
men enter the poor, miserable other continents of
the world and, having entered as they did into Aus-
tralia, close the door of all the continents against
mankind ? Perhaps Mr. Bedford, M.L.0., will
explain. And perhaps he will not.
»
The Bad Citizen in Khaki.
“Rio”: There is an Australian Military
Regulation which forbids soldiers of any
rank attending any religious or political
gathering in uniform, and there is another
which warns citizen officers that if they con-
duet themselves out of uniform as they would
not in uniform, they weaken discipline and
discredit the service. A third regulation
warns officers that they are responsible for
anything said or done in plain clothes if
said or done with intentional reference to
their military status. In face of all this
Major-General Ryrie attended an Orange
gathering a few days ago, made a speech
full of politics and religion of a most
bigoted nature, and said things that were
an insult to every Irish Roman Catholic in
Australia, his blundering attempts to
exempt his own R.C. Light Horsemen only
making things worse. Ryrie may have got
into plain clothes for the occasion and been
technically a civilian, but all the speeches
referred to him as a soldier. Apparently, as
a reward for breaking three regulations and
antagonising 20 p.c. of our defence forces,
lie was a few days later made Assistant-
Minister for Defence. At the same function
was Henley, a buckshee colonel, who is
using his honorary rank for all it is worth.
His advice to Australia on his retui'n was
to take no steps against Bolsheviks or pos-
sible brown or yellow heathen enemies and
all would be peace; but when it comes to
Christian Irishmen and Australians he wants
every military precaution taken. When
people like Henley and Man nix vent their
exotic venom one merely pities them; but
when a Ryrie, whose family has been Aus-
tralian for generations, dabbles in this im-
ported filth, one can’t dismiss the matter
so easily. There is nothing Irish or Roman
Catholic in the writer; but when he remem-
bers the MclN ERNEY-Lord Roberts incident,
the howls when Chaplain Mannix talked
polities though other chaplains had for years
done the same, it is quite evident that in
Australia, as in England, we are getting to
a stage where there is one law for Irish
soldiers who talk politics and another for
non-li’ish.
*
Straining at Murder and Swallowing
Holocausts.
A youth shot himself in Prince Alfred Park
(Sydney). He left a farewell letter refer-
ring to a “complaint,” and the medical evi-
dence showed that he was suffering from
acute V.D. The Coroner’s Court said with
legal irrationality that he was mad ; and
the N. S. Wales Government, which is
morally responsible for his death, inasmuch
as he would almost certainly never have
dreamt of destroying himself had Holman’s
V.D. Act been made operative sft: months
ago, decided to take strong measures. Chief
Secretary Fuller resolved that on and
after a certain date “any man found with
a firearm in his possession without a license
will be liable to prosecution.” So, hence-
forward, intending suicides or assassins will
know what to expect if they miss. Mean-
while the Government continues to aid and
abet the promotion of slaughter on the
major scale. A shipload of aeroplanes is
due shortly in Australia. They will be offered
in the open market to anyone who cares to
risk flying one of them. A would-be ear-
driver has to pass a test, inadequate in many
cases, perhaps, but still a test; a drunk may
lose his license as a driver of any sort of
vehicle; only a select class may handle
poisons; and now firearms are to be with-
drawn fi'om uncontrolled circulation in N. S.
Wales. But any inebriated ruffian or irre-
snonsible is at liberty to buy. hire or borrow
and thereafter flv an aeroplane which, after
“live” shells discharged from field guns,
was perhans the most publicly dangerous
device of the great war. The N. S. Wales
Government has taken no steps to protect
its State against the air-hogging which is
bound to occur with the arrival of additional


T h i Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A
ustralia
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the hand.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
machines. Why not? Chiefly because aerial
legislation is sucn an obviously national
activity that neither N. S. Wales nor any
other State cares to embark on it. If the
men who drafted the Constitution had visual-
ised the arrival of the flying era they would
have claimed aerial powers for the Federa-
tion at the same time as they claimed
defence and quarantine powers for it. As
they didn’t, such powers have vested in
the States. The State Governments have
no use for them. But they will see the
people who pay them to look after their
safety incinerated in crowds before they
hand over these power's to the only authority
that can use them effectively. Death has
to be sedulously guarded against when
he threatens in the form of a dis-
tracted boy with a cheap pistol. But
when he appears in the form of a
passenger ’plane carrying enough inflam-
mable matter to exterminate hundreds —well,
what is Death, after all, by comparison with
State Rights?
Dear Bulletin, —Your “D.” correspondent,
with his frequent “Case for the Turk,” once
said that countries like Germany and Tur-
key can’t be dismembered. It being pointed
out that Turkey is dismembering—falling
to pieces through leprosy—his newest idea
(B. 5/2/’2O) reads: “Surely the very fact
that the Ottoman Empire i.s evidently expir-
ing by natural process provides a strong
argument against pushing it over the edge.”
There is a sort of logic in that. In the same
way the fact of a house being old, filthy,
decayed, unsightly, uninhabitable by decent
people, infectious, bug-haunted, ghost-
haunted. haunted by the Face at the Win-
dow. and a resort for thieves provides a
strong argument against pushing it over
the edge. It should block progress fo<r
another century and then fall on the head
of some harmless passer-by. Yet how would
Sydney look if we had waited for all the old
houses to fall down before building new
ones? Why allow space to be kept almost
waste by a beastly incurable now that we
know lie is incurable? Space isn’t so plen-
tiful and the Turk makes such poor use of
it that he can nearly starve, and nearly
starve other people, on a fertile area fat
least it was immensely fertile before he
came) that would support ten times the num-
ber of Belgians or Frenchmen ©r Germans
; o affluence. There is only one “Case for the
Turk.” and that is a pine cotnn. though plain
burial at midnight where four roads meet,
with a stake driven through the deceased,
would be cheaper.—Yours affectionately,
Henry Horsecollar.
Randolph Bedford in reply:—
“Working Gnu,” (B. 5/2/’2O) says tb"rp is “no
industrial sex rivalry in Australia.” That thorp
is can be proved by interviewing male and female
clerks in (say) the Commonwealth Bank. Prac-
tically “Working Giri/’ doesn’t mind what she says
so long as she is permitted to get this insinuation
into print—that the Australian girl refuses to have
a baby and that “Sally of England mothers the
babies Australia needs so urgently.” It isn’t true,
and if it were it would be the most tragic satire
possible that the superior should refuse maternity
and the inferior accept it. This country is too
good to be a rubbish tip. Yet it is an old Free-
trade idea that the war seems to have given new
life to. A i/.ble says that Salvation Army Commis-
sioner Lam : is to come to Australia about May
“to make immigration proposals to the State Govern-
ments. He specially wants to know if Australians
will do anything towards the unwanted child and
the overflow of women. There are tens of thou-
sands of children from two to five years of age
of good sturdy stock, the result of the war. They
include the offspring of married women whose hus-
bands returned from the war and forgave the wife
on condition that the child left home. Commis-
sioner Lamb states that there are now 1,350,000
more woriien than men in Britain bringing a social
upheaval that is difficult to estimate.” Here is
this Lord High Admiral of the Big Drum calmly
proposing that Australia should turn itself (at its
own cost) into an asylum for foreign foundlings
when Australia wants men ready for wear, and
after that men and women. Australian women,
like most other women, are certainly limiting child-
ren, and probably families will be limited the more
until the incidence of taxation helps a bit by
exempting the father of six and cutting to the
hone the wealth of the sterile who can pay. Mean-
time its job is to see that the effective birth-rate
of the Australian is made higher by greater care-
fulness of the infant.
There is a time in every public man’s
career when the mud that has been thrown
at him can be turned to good account. The
great thing i.s to spot the psychological
moment, and on its arrival drag the whispers,
rumors, hints and suggestions of immorality,
theft, drunkenness and villainy generally
into the limelight. The most notable case
in recent times was that of the present King.
Every old woman in the Empire had informa-
tion concerning his “bigamous marriage”;
and about half the men had seen him drunk.
Says A. G. Gardiner:—
King Edward would have taken it all in the day’s
work. Scandal ran off him like water off a duck’s
back. He would have lit another cigar, cocked his
head at a sporting angle and passed on his way
beaming. King George is a man of different, mettle,
lie leapt at the throat of slander.
And at the first leap the mountain collapsed.
Now it is Holman who sees his chance. He
has had more tales whispered about him than
most men: and he reckons the time has
come when it will profit him to challenge
the whisperers to .speak out. Of course they
won’t; and because nobody comes forward
to prove that he is a blend of Silenus,
Casanova and the Artful Dodger, he will
claim to be, by default, a statesman —which
he isn’t and never was.
The story is told in Melbourne, and it is
probably true, that, since the Bank Clerks’
Association was formed, the clerks in one
bank have had a rise of £4O, a year, in
another the rank-and-file have got a still
bigger lift, and in most of the others much
improved conditions. Every “right-thinking”
paper in the country spends a lot of space
in trying to show the good wages-workman
that it is not his duty to stick to the bad
wages-workman—that, on the contrary, good
citizenship demands that the industrious
man, who is ready to do a fair thing, should
tell the other sort, the constant-striker and
the go-slower, that he is a public enemy. It
is equally the duty of the decent employer
to tell the other sort —the .sweater; the man
who won’t do a fair thing till he is forced
to—that he is a public enemy; and the
sooner the same right-thinking papers make
this plain the better.
It is getting time the public dropped to the
absurdity of the Australian way of finding
out what a minimum or basic or living
wage is. In some other countries social
surveys are done scientifically: they find
out, for instance, what arc the needs of ccr-
ENTERTAINING EDWARD.
tain people in certain industries. In Aus-
tralia every inquiry so far undertaken has
been an extravagant farce. Usually a
mixed committee, totally untrained in scien-
tific inquiry, examines a procession of wit-
nesses, who are concerned not to arrive at
the truth but to show the need for more (or
less) money. Melbourne, for instance, has
just been taking the evidence of men who,
though they probably never kept accounts
in their lives, swore that they required from
eight to 12 shirts a year, a pair of socks a
fortnight (one man put it at a pair every eight
days), a couple of pairs of braces a year,
and anything up to five suits of clothes.
Inquiry conducted on these lines is worse
than useless. As a matter of fact, there
should be no need to inquire as to what is
a basic or living wage so far as the vast
majority of trades and callings and the men
and women engaged in them are concerned.
The proper basis of payment is the value of
the workman’s product; every other is un-
scientific and unstable. The State is only
concerned to see that nobody is paid so little
that he cannot purchase with it sufficient
food, clothing and cover for his own and his
family’s health. That is the purpose of a
basic or living wage; and an inquiry
whether a man ought to have three or six
new ties a year reduces a very serious busi-
ness to a farce.
“J.W.S.”: Under the A.I.F. educational
scheme I was for five months at the North of
Scotland Agricultural School, Mareschal Col-
lege, Aberdeen. It was the custom for a
lecture to be given every Friday afternoon
bv competent people on their own subjects.
Some of the Yanks talked of farming
methods in their particular part of the
States, an Aussie officer talked dairying in
Victoria and so on. The Aberdeen public
attended by invitation, and as the lectures
were popular the newspapers devoted much
space to them. As I was from the Northern
Territory, I was asked to state a few facts
about it. I am no Alfred Deakin, and funk-
ed it; but after a lot of persuasion I said if
I could get some maps and perhaps some
lantern slides I would supply facts that
somebodv else coaild talk. M hen in Lon-
don later on Mrs. Samuels, of the War
Chest Club, gave me a letter of introduction
to a high official at Australia House. I
told him my business, and he passed me on
to some other officer. I had to wait an
hour wnile he argued the point with a caller
about taxation. He knew a whole lot about
taxation, but I found he was foggy about the
N.T. When he vaguely hinted that the N.T.
was mixed up with Queensland, I felt dis-
appointed. However, to make a long story
short, I came away with a geological map
of the Australian continent (a colored trifle
about Sin. by sin.) and the Administrator’s
report for 1913! That was the lot! One
of the Aussie officers vamped up a lecture
on {‘Australia” and gave a few facts con-
cerning the North, which 1 supplied. I am
mighty interested in the Territory, because
I live in it and know it; but we can’t expect
to interest others unless we supply them
with information. Australia House should
be a fountain of facts, not a tomb of igno-
rance.
Alec Peacock and R. W. Rest are the
sole political survivors of the Royal Commis-
sion of All the Talents appointed by the Pat-
terson Government (Vic.) in 1894 to inquire
into Constitutional reform. Bob Best, then
the Radical member for Fitzroy. was the
chairman, and his trump card was “a bill
providine for the election of Ministers, their
greater security of tenure, and for the refer-
endum in certain events.” Graham Berry,
Alfred Deakin, Isaac Isaacs (now a High
Court Judge), Alec Peacock, William Shiels,
William Trenwith and George Turner,
M’s.L.A., who signed the report, stated that
a majority could not think that it was prac-
ticable “at present” (good old “at present”!)
to recommend electing Ministries for a fixed
period. But the machines have become infin-
itely more mischievous since then, and even
that Commission would probably agree that
it is time to revive the .agitation for elective
Ministers, each responsible for his own and
nobody else’s misdeeds. With that sort
of Ministry Hughes wouldn’t have found it
so easy to misuse his War Precautions Act
last week.
Labor-member Watkins lias succeeded in
piloting on to the Speck’s statutes some com-
monsense amendments to the Matrimonial
Causes Act. Directly the amending bill was
circulated a meeting of the Council of
Churches was rushed together and a strong
petition of protest was presented to Parlia-
ment against “increasing the facilities for
.divorce.” The parsons gave no reasons, used
no arguments ; just “deplored” the proposed
amendments and prayed Parliament to fling
the bill into the furnace and bury the ashes
at dead of night at the cross roads, or words
to that effect. Suspecting that these people
had not read the bill, and that they really
bad no valid arguments against the proposed
reform, \fatkins promptly agreed to Premier
Gee's suggestion to have the clergymen give
evidence before a select committee of the
House. The Committee cross-ouestioned a
score or so of lay and clerical witnesses, and
found so little in the objection that it unani-
mously reported in favor of the bill which
passed both Houses in short order. The
amended Act gives the same right of petition
to both sexes and removes the anomaly
whereby a man could petition for a divorce on
the grounds of his wife’s adultery while the
wife got no relief unless she could prove
cruelty as well as adultery. Desertion for a
period (not necessarily the old seven years)
and insanity extending over a substantial
term were also made grounds in divorce peti-
tions.
The Petit Parisien revives the report
that Hungary will offer the throne to the
Marquis of Cambridge. He was Prince
Adolphus of Teck till 1917. Many Diggers
will remember him as a small, dapper,
middle-aged major in Cairo, where he was
on the staff of General Maxwell. Ilis top-
boots were his most remarkable feature:
they gleamed like diamonds. The Hun-
garians are determined to have/ some sort of
monarch: the recent elections showed them
to be strongly anti-Bolshevik. On the other
hand, the Conference of Ambassadors has
warned them that they can’t have a Ilaps-
burg. Hence the Anglo-German peer’s oppor-
tunity to be assassinated with honor.
Debate already arises about the route for
the Prince of Wales when he visits Australia.
It is proposed to put him ashore at Melbourne
and show him Federal Parliament House,
and then overland him to Sydney, and gradu-
ally beguile him up the green east coast
strip, finishing presumably about Cairns
with a discourse on tropical foliage and the
Barron Falls. Also there will be calls at
carefully selected inland spots—not far in-
land. It is mean to deceive the young, and
if the heir apparent is to be of any use as a
king he ought to know as much as possible
about his dominions. That is what he comes
for. He should be shown the heart of Aus-
tralia so far as it can be reached conveni-
ently, and the nearest thing to it is the Port-
August-Oodnadatta railway. Then if he
takes in Broken llill, Adelaide, Melbourne,
Sydney, Brisbane and some towns beyond
he will have seen about as much us is pos-
sible in the time, and may thereafter be able
to form some idea of what Australian pro-
blems really are. Even a Prince can't judge
an orange by its overcoat, no matter how
beautifully it is polished.
“Ilm.” : We don’t yet know, and probably
never will be allowed to know, of the fine
work that was done by some officers in resist-
ing the pressure of Haig and other heads to
introduce capital punishment to the Aus-
tralian Army for “cowardice.” Some men
crumpled up under shell-fire or aeroplane-
bombing (which is worse), and they were
no more cowards than the Field-Marshal
himself. I know a man who was so nervy
even before he went over from England that
when doing his practice shooting his firing
was a danger to everything but his target:
even on a miniature range he sent two bul-
lets through the roof anu was in such a
rattled condition that he went without his
tea. Yet while other sound-nerved men
were dodging, he managed to get to France
a bit ahead of his time, only to become a
bad shell-shock case when he approached
within sound of falling shells. His com-
plaint took him in the tongue; nevertheless
he managed to make it plain that he was
pro testing against being sent away from
the line. When I met him in England,
three months later, his stammering was
painful, but he told me that he thought he
was pretty well fit for return to France,
and he produced documents which showed
that he was making representations that lie
was a waste of good material through being
retained in hospital when he might be
doing the fighting he enlisted to do.
President Blakeley, delivering the speech
from the throne at the opening of the A.W.U.
Conference, said the middleman must be
obliterated and that the producer got only
25 p.c. of the ultimate cost of the goods.
This is quite possible. Between the wheat
in the field and the loaf on the table are (1)
the nigger who makes bags in Calcutta, (2)
the foreign ship that brings them here. (3)
the railways that distribute them, (4) the
man and horse that cart the wheat to the
station, (5) an average of 200 miles of rail-
way carriage, (6) the miller, (7) the carter
of flour, (8) the baker ; also (9 to 99) the meu
who made the carts and the others who built
the mills and the bakehouses, and the man
who delivers the bread and some sundries.
If the wheat is to be exported, there are
other middlemen, including 12,000 miles of
costly sea-carriage by foreign ships, and
various carters, wharf-laborers at each end.
agents and more sundries. The further the
consumer is from the producer the more
middlemen there must be (the men who make
the trucks and who drive the locos, are all
middlemen), so Blakeley’s best hope of reduc-
ing the army is to (1) join up with the
High Protectionists, who will cut out the
middleman shipowner and the middleman
wharf-laborer and the middleman importer,
and (2) throw in his lot with the decen-
tralisers, who will give the country towns
soma of the population that now hangs on
to the seaboard, as remote as possible from
the producer whom Blakeley has in his mind.


LT
■ rr -v.
1 S
»
0
P
P !
y I
Cft |
Ml
I— *i
0
%
9
s
i
0)
Taubmans Extra Hard Floor Varnish
Stains give floors a subdued gloss finish in
Oak, Walnut, and Mahogany, that endures
hard wear, is heel-proof and non-slipping.
These Stains are designed to give floors just
the correct finish, and their special qualities
ensures them against wear and may be freely
washed. Easy to apply and easily kept clean.
TAUBMAN S FLOOR VARNISH STAINS have become, by virtue of their unfailing
wearing qualities, the foremost floor finish of the present day.
YOUR STOREKEEPER WILL SUPPLY YOU
V-j-A -| Tii WHOIvESALE OttLY AX _ .
ly, SydneyVarruah- Marvuiacitirers.
VICTORIAN BRANCH . w i COM INS STREET ,MKI-BOURWC
Q LAND AGENT: Chat. W. Utley, CHALT .OTTE ST , BRISBANE
S. A US. AGENT: L G Abbott & Co., CHESSER ST., ADELAIDE
N.Z. AGENT: KAlion (S' Sbav • HARRIS ST .WELLINGTON
POLITICAL
POINTS
One of these pleasant, breezy, autumn days
that they have in Wellington, when cats go
down the street backwards digging all their
claws into the ground and mak.ng music,
and dogs hang to lamp-posts with all four
feet and call for help, and hats and chimney-
pots and washing fill the sky, the new Maori-
land Parliament intends to have a look at
the finances. When the war coalition broke
up, Joe Ward made his bid for the Premier-
ship with a loan policy that looked like
running to £20,000,000 a year, and lost his
party and his long-sat-upon seat. The ques-
tions to be answered now are: (11 Has
Maoriland become financially sane? Or (2)
is it still mad, but not quite so mad as Joe
Ward? Or (3) did it reject Ward for not
being mad enough?
From the Vic. State lobbies: —
Vic. Premier Lawson would feel more comfortab’e
if he had “the dinkum oil” about Peacock’s inten-
tions. Peacock had a great hearing when visiting
Ballarat with Birdwood lately, and Birdie’s remark
that the uproar was like a Premier’s reception made
many wonder whether the soldier had been given a
tip. There is no doubt Peacock could sack Lawson
at the re-opening of Parliament, but he will wait for
the result of the elections, unless the big fellow
tries to force an early dissolution and go to the
country as the alleged victim of ,a political con-
spiracy. Sooner or later, however, Lawson will
expire by the effluxion of his majority, and it
doesn’t lessen his anxiety to learn that the Farmers’
Union is mobilising for an offensive. The Hayseeds
have practically all their shock troops in the
Federal House, but they promise to shake the
Liberal hold on rural electorates. If they can get
the right recruits —admittedly difficult at present—
In dealing with the marine engineers the
Commonwealth Government did no more, or
very little more, and in some respects it did
very much less, than should be done when-
ever a body of men refuses arbitration and
holds up the community. But it used the
War Precautions Act- for the purpose; and
Parliament never intended any such thing.
Thus the real cause of complaint against
the Government is that it made another
attack upon Parliamentary Government. The
marine engineers, however, have no more
right to complain about that than any other
citizens. The right thing, so far as they are
concerned, was done; the whole trouble is
that it was done by the wrong people—that
authority given by Parliament to the Gov-
ernment was misappropriated and mis-
applied.
The competition between Holman and
Storey is a funny business. Holman promised
to; charge £2,000,000 of wholly unremunera-
tive road repairs to posterity. Storey said next
day it was “totally inadequate.” Holman
promised a few’ more maternity homes.
Storey w’ould provide maternity homes every-
where. Holman says he has built GO wheat,
silos w’ith loan money, and they are mostly
empty. Storey said this w’as “nothing” to
the silos he would have built. Apparently
he w’ould have roofed in the whole State. Also
he is wdlling to provide farmers with carts
to shift their wheat. Holman was willing
to guarantee ss. per bushel for wheat. Storey
wouldn’t mind Gs. If Holman said he had
tw T o black cats in his yard Storey would
pledge himself, if returned to office, to put
four black cats in everybody’s yard—three
females and a Thomas.
The marine engineers on strike prop up
their case by stating that the wages paid to
their class in the United States are 50 per
cent, or more above the rates here. Unfor-
tunately, even if it were true, this wouldn’t
be relevant. The U,S. owns what it pro-
duces plus the interest pouring in from the
vast sum which the world owes to the canny
Yank. Australia owns what it produces
minus the interest pouring out, because we
have got in debt to everybody who would
lend. If Australia continues on its present
course its marine engineer will be lucky if
he keeps pace with the Spanish or Italian
marine engineer.
TWEEDLEBOOM AND TWEEDLEBUST.
PREMIER TWEEDLEBOOM : “Here, that’s my bait!”
OPPOSITION-LEADER TWEEDLEBUST.: “All right, I know; but I’m going to gut it on the
hook differently.”
Lawson’s Government is doomed and two or three
of his followers will lose their seat*. Lawson might
save his life by going over to the Cookies; but then,
again, Peacock might like to be their banner- oeaier,
and he could easily beat the Premier in a struggle for
the job.
Hughes plays right into the hands of the
One Big Unionists. When the powerful
coal-miners held up industry he called
Judge Edmunds to his aid and gave them
what they demanded. (Edmunds hasn’t yet
put on sackcloth and ashes and declared his
repentance; and the act is long overdue.) In
May last year the miners of Broken Hill
knocked off work,' refused arbitration and
are still on strike; incidentally they have
knocked the railway finances of S. Ausc
askew, and with the coal-miners behind them
say they will keep out for 12 months
more rather than submit to arbitration. And
Hughes hasn’t done a thing. But when the
Marine Engineers, a mere handful, had been
out for less than a month, he used the War
Precautions Act against them. No wonder
the 0.8. U. immediately said : “See ! That s
what your little union gets!” Hughes isn’t
a coward ; but there isn’t much he wouldn t
sacrifice to keep in office.
The Age says the Argus fiscal policy will
turn the country inside, out. Well, anyhow,
it would put the outside in.
“Lex”: The War Precautions Act could
not be legally employed except for “a war
purpose” even while the fighting was onj
and the fighting has been over for 15
months and more now, while the war offi-
cially ended on January 10 last. Anyone,
therefore, who obeyed Hughes and denied
the marine engineers their legal rights would
be exposed to a civil action for damages.
But, of course, no one will.
The Queensland Upper House has had
some excitement too. Having rejected a bill
on the second reading, it was surprised when
Minister Jones moved on the ensuing day
that it “be read a second time next Wednes-
day” as if nothing had happened and the
thing wasn’t dead. He failed, but the
attempt left the Council’s bald head very
flushed.
The question arises whether a bank owned
by or affiliated with the Shipping Combine
should be allowed to open in Australia. A
concern which has declared war against our
mercantile navy is rather like an enemy
institution. Anyway, it is just as much an
enepiy institution as the marine engineers
who refuse to arbitrate; and they have been
barred from doing any banking business at
all.
Frank Clarke, Vic. Minister for Works,
who administers matters relating to housing,
has issued a warning to suburban allotment-
seekers to be careful not to burn their fingers.
Houses built at present high rates for
material and labor on fancy-price blocks will,
he fears, slump horribly when the over-
sanguine first owner wants to sell. Now,
.what about applying the same reasoning to
State borrowing and public works?
McGrath, defeated by one vote at Balla-
rat. has demanded an inquiry. Should this
lead to a new election the community should
also demand an inquiry. It ought to know
if there is a shred of truth in McGrath’s
reported statement that he was ottered a
£2500-per-annum billet in London provided
he became converted to “conscription,” and
was such a spotless patriot that he refused.
If it is strictly true he deserves the seat.
If it is strictly untrue he deserves to be
disqualified for life for seeking votes by
“false pretences.
N. S. Wales has had an epidemic of
murders by shooting; and the Government
proposes to limit the carrying of revolvers
to. duly licensed persons. Of course no
burglar or other potential assassin who wants
a revolver is likely to be without one so
long as any are available at all. There is
but one effective plan,-and that is to prohibit
the sale and possession of revolvers
altogether. The licensing scheme will not
prevent malefactors getting hold of revolvers;
it will merely make them a little dearer.
As for any sawn-off gun being any protec-
tion against the housebreaker, the citizen
who goes after an armed midnight visitor
with a revolver is, 19 times out of 20,
chasing death.
Bank clearing-house transactions are dull
reading, yet tney help to show how much
money is going round. Their general ten-
dency is to increase, and last year they did
so in every State except Queensland. 1 u
Victoria the amount that flew round in
cheques and bills was £50,443,000 more than
in 1918, which was the biggest rise. South
Aus. showed an advance of £18.170.000.
Queensland showed a decline of £0,044.000,
and that can only be due to general paralysis :
the Northern State now does just about 4
per cent, more business than S. Aus., though
it has 50 per cent, more population and vastly
greater natural wealth.
The Victorian iron and steel employees
have issued an ultimatum. It is for better
wages, so that the men may lead a brighter,
happier, more civilised life. Also it is for
shorter hours, so that there may be less pro-
duction, wherefore the country will depend
still more on imports, and be still more at
the mercy of the foreign profiteer, who will
seize the opportunity to raise prices and put
up the cost of living. Thus the demand for
shorter hours means that the increased wages
will really be less than the old wages, and
the brighter, happier, more civilised life won’t
be realised after all.
Having done a little posing for the admira-
tion of country members the Lawson team
(Vic.) has agreed to the new Tram Board’s
recommendation that penny fares should be
charged on the suburban terminal sections of
the Port Melbourne, I’rahran and Brunswick
cable trains, as well as on the corresponding
sections of the other 11 lines. It was certain
from the first that this would be done, but
Ministers wanted to make it appear that they
hesitated to do something which might cut
into railway revenue and lead to a demand
for higher freights. The posing might have
been more effective if Frank Clarke had
handled the limelight apparatus more skil-
fully. -but the job probably sickened him.
Politics is no game now for plain, forthright
men.
Lower-paid railway employees in Vic. are
to get the 11s. Od. a day basic wage recom-
mended by the Classification Board, Cabinet
having decided to pay up as from July 1.
1919. Consequential payments have to be
given to other State employees. Men em-
ployed on railway and reservoir-construction
works are to receive 12s. a day, the extra
threepence over the constant men being
granted because of the intermittent nature of
the work. It is estimated that £OOO,OOO a
year will have to be got from somewhere or
other to pay the railway men alone. Mean-
while to a small extent in Vic. and to a
large extent in some other States, new rail-
ways are being pushed on with just as. if
loans and construction wages and running
costs were the same as ever.
A big motor-lorry has carried goods from
Sydney to Melbourne, and beat the train a
little in cheapness and out of sight in point
of time. As traffic increases the block at
Albiii.v, where everything has to be dragged
out of the 561 in. truck and put in the 63in.
truck or vice versa, grows more intense. The
delay is longer, the loss through trucks lying
idle when they should be earning money is
worse, the loss of goods by decaj' is \yorse,
and with increased wages the cost of shifting
is worse. A great deal of valuable time is
lost through the difficulty of making the
trains exactly meet, and it is all waste
labor. Then the country has to keep a lot
of useless rolling stock, for there is always
a period of stagnation somewhere; yet the
vehicle that is eating its head off at Bris-
bane can’t be rushed over to Melbourne,
.where work is waiting for it. Few’ coun-
tries can boast of a muddle that measures
several thousand miles each way. Albury,
£t| the busiest changing station, partly lives
on it, for it boards and lodges and sells beer
to the muddlers. It should be called
Muddlebury.
“Gaby”: Having made several fruitless
efforts to get a small stock of bank-draft
requisition forms, I sent finally to ask why
these were not available. The reply was
that there was a shortage of all forms, but
new supplies were coming along from
England very soon. The bank has its head
office in London, and practically all its share-
holders live outside Australia; so I suppose
I deserve it. I am a printer myself.
A big market for beer in the Australian
corner of Asia lately made inquiries in Syd-
ney and Melbourne, and it looked as if there
was a valuable trade coming this way. At
an awkward moment the brewers’ strike hap-
pened, and then the shipping trouble; and
now the business has been turned down
“owing to the uncertainty of procuring sup-
plies from the South.” Meantime, cutting
into a market that used to be largely held
by Germany, the Jap has increased his
exports of beer from £7700 in 1913 to
£767.200 in 1918. And this is why the
nation is interested in preventing strikes. Far
more than the people directly concerned in
any strike are affected by it. During the
great London dock strike, nearly 30 years
ago, trade went across to Antwerp, then
comparatively unimportant; and it not only
never came back, but naturally carried little
by little with it. until Antwerp became one
of the great shipping ports of the world.
THE GOLDEN FUTURE.
A Song of 1950.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
More and more of the things made and grown in
Australia become unprocurable. Sugar is scarce and
inferior; salt is only to be had in small quantities ;
starch is as rare as an aboriginal epic.
I hear you speak of a better plan
Than changing pumpkin for slabs of cow,
Of happier times ere a war began,
When the sweat was less on the people’s brow.
I hear you tell of a golden day,
When things could be bought in a grocer’s shop,
And new potatoes across the way
Were seen with onions and beans on top.
A sixpence then was a coin of might,
A shilling would purchase you bread or tea ;
And the streets were lighted on Friday night
Where the goods were spread for the world to see.
They had ham and biscuits and rice and soap.
And matches and flour and ink and string;
And a beautiful song of well-fed hope
Was always there for a pound to sing.
Now I grind the wheat with a boulder brown.
And 1 hunt my beef through the bushland wild,
For the signs on the shops have been taken down
Since the day when my dad was a trusting child.
I carry a pumpkin to pay my fare
On the one-horse tram with the mouldy smell;
And the faces I meet are lined with care
As they dream of the things they could buy and
sell.
It started with sugar and rice, you say,
And salt and starch and potatoes and ham;
And the world went Smilingly down the way
To the tune of a muttered and peaceful damn.
Nobody worried and nobody cared.
The shops grew empty from week to week,
Till .Tones his pumpkin with Johnson shared,
And Johnson shouted him half his creek.
Profiteers, politics, public debts!
I seem to have heard such words before.
But a man must take or leave what he gets;
And he finds it useless to ask for more.
So I plant my beans and I stew my cat,
And live on the fat of a prosperous land.
While the sun looks down on my old bark hat;
But I wish my grand-dad could understand.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


WAIT TILL THE STONE PALLS!
THE DIRECT.ACTION AGITATOR: “Pm all right under me little umbrella.”


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill) Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
bhas:
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms—-
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of—
Granulated),
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated), Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge (Industrial and Assay),
Bearing Metals, Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder.
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of Silicious Silver-Lead Ores, Slags, etc.,
containing Silver and Lead. Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE—
H. L. SHACKELL. Secretary.
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2
A. .1. SMITH. London Secretary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY'—
R. N. KIRK (Agent). .
ADELAIDE OFFICE: 62 BROOKMAN’S BUILDING, ADELAIDE—
C. S. STOKES (Agent).
SMELTING WORKS. PORT PIRIE. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELL.AMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ELECTRIC STEEL
THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE."
We make a Feature of Specially Heat-treated Steel Castings for Ore
Crusher and Rock Breaker Parts. Battery and Mill Liners. Stamper
Shoes and Dies, Cams, Heads, Tappets, Ring Dies. Tramway Tyres.
Toughened Steel Truck Wheels. We can supply any quality hitherto
imported.
ALX STAGES OF MANUFACTURE UNDER MODERN SCIENTIFIC CONTROL.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
Telegraphic Address: “Electric Steel.’
ALEXANDRIA. SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The New Zealand Insurance Co. :
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Nov., £ £ £ £ *C
1909 41,134 10 p.e.=30,000 11,134 455,019
1910 66,745 124 „ „ 37,500 157 29,088 454.107
1911 107,417 124 „„ 37,500 12,654 57,263 541,370
1912 109,986 15’„„ 45,000 8,932 56,054 597,424
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 447,424
1913 117,870 10 p.c.=45,000 2,773 70,097 517,521
1914 109,538 10 „ „ 45,000 64,538 582,059
1915 150,683 10 ~,,45,000 34,573 71,110 653,169
1916 186,379 11s „„ 52,500 171 133,708 786,877
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 636,877
1917 234,094 10 p.e.=60.000 22,236 151,858 783,735
1918 203,639 124 „„ 75,000 1,428 127,211 915,946
Transferred to capital, £150,000 . . 765,946
1919 186,171 115p.c.=87,500 98,671 864,617
Though that last line records operations of
a year in a world more or less at peace
again, it was by no means a normal run.
Following upon the Armistice vast stocks
became available for transport, so the earlier
portion of the term benefited by business
which under normal conditions would have
belonged to previous years. This
however, may have been counteracted
to some extent by the shortage of
stocks coming forward since. But
the big factor affecting insurance figures is
the enhanced value of everything on which
a policy is written. To get adequate cover
on present inflated values necessitates the
payment of larger premiums, and, though the
voiume of claims is likely to increase, a
normal loss experience also naturally gives
the cos. more profit. With marine
business safer than it had been for five
years the tariff for this line was revised
after hostilities ceased, so a slide in the N.Z,
Insurance Co.’s premium income was only
to be expected. Its underwriting figures
over many years have worked out this
way:—•
Loss Expense
Rate. Rate.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.c. p.c.
1895. . £267,917 £172,137 £79,203 64.2 29.6
1900.. 342,336 195,864 95,651 57.2 27.9
1905.. 425,991 273,698 111,677 64.2 26.2
1906. . 565,149 [ } 129 ’ 361 m - 9 229
1910.. 605.509 391,321 172,593 64.5 23.5
1914.. 699,310 435,397 202,125 62.3 28.9
1915.. 740,646 423,844 208,879 57.2 28.2
1916.. 924,790 548,582 245,930 59.3 26.6
1917. 689,302 283,724 60.1 24.7
1918. . 1,215,087 644,232 387,798 53.2 31.9
1919.. 1,091,288 644,953 316,244 59.1 28.9
•General. tSan Francisco disaster.
Thus business was handled last year at pre-
cisely the same proportionate cost as in 1914;
but with a loss rate at least three points
smaller the latest underwriting surplus
amounted to £130,091 compared with £61,788
five years ago. Profits are now also helped
considerably by higher interest earnings. For
1914 £47,674 was derived from that source;
last year £80,168. Consequently, after dis-
tributing £87,500 in dividends compared with
only £45,000 five years ago, and, further,
after dropping £25,000 of current profit into
a staff provident fund, the co. is able to
lay by £34,000 more than it could in 1914.
Though the expense rates for 1914 and 1919
are shown above as precisely the same, busi-
ness is now costing less. But owing to in-
creased taxation on its larger income the
N.Z. Insurance Co. is paying to the M.L-
Treasury, fire boards and underwriting asso-
ciations nearly 5J times what it did in 3911
—£121,136 as against £22,319. Disregarding
these outgoings, the office cost of securing
business for the past six years has been as
follows
Expense
Premiums. Expenses. Ratio.
1914 .. £699,310 £179,806 25.7 p.c.
1915 . . 740,646 185,976 25,1 „
1916 . . 924,790 201,588 22.6 „
1917 .. 1,147.704 205,789 18.0 „
1918 .. 1,215,087 251,104 20.7 „
1919 .. 1,091,288 195,108 17.9 „
That 17.9 p.c. easily beats pre-war perform-
ances, and is wholly due to the appreciated
value of insurables, just as during 1917-18
the big volume of stiff marine premiums
helped to cut the rate.
Since the war the oo.’s figures have grown
fast, and a comparison of the grouped results
for two five-year periods since 1909 is worth
putting on recoixl. Besides the outgoings
shown below there have been clips _ to
provide for depreciation of securities,
which are shown in the balance-sheets
at or below current market values. On
the other hand the later surplus may have
been greater than the accounts indicate, for
among the liabilities is a reserve of £BO,OOO
for taxation, portion or perhaps the whole of
which mny prove not to have been a legi-
timate charge against recent revenue; also
there is no less than £375,701 in an “appro-
priation for unascertained losses,” some of
which may also not be called for: —
/ —Five years to— N
Income — 1914. 1919.
Net premiums .. ..£3,321,891 £5,119,515
Interest, etc. .. .. 194,788 316,527
Total income. . £3,516,679 £5,436,042
Outgoings—
Losses £2,035,468 £2,950,913
Expenses . . .. . . 954,731 . 1,442,575
Provident Fund .. . . 15,000 50,000
Total outgo ..£3,005,199 £4,443,488
Surplus .. £511,480 £992,554
Dividends .. 210,000 320,000
This and previous tables clearly show
what a sweet thing the co. has been
for shareholders. Seven years ago
paid capital was £3OO, (XX). This has
since been built up to £750,000 wholly
by the issue of bonus shares provided from
reserves. So where only seven vears ago the
shareholder got 10 p.c. on his money, with-
out having had to put up a penny since he
now gets 29 1-0 p.c. p.a. Huge reserves
have meantime been accumulated, but though
nominally the property of proprietors, these
must be kept in the business to protect poli-
cies. The investments earned no less than
£BO,lOB of the £87,500 distributed to share-
holders last year.
The very rapid expansion of business
during the war years outpaced the growth
of funds, so that reserves in comparison
with risks, as measured by premium income,
was for a time much under what it used to
be. Now, however, with a reduced income,
the co. has got back to its 1914 strength.
Here is a comparison over many years:—
Funds in Proportion
Premiums. Funds. to Premiums.
1895.. £267,917 £449,551 168 p.c.
1900.. 342,036 481,485 141 „
1905.. 425,991 640,916 150 „
1910.. 605,509 784,107 129 „
1914.. 699,310 1,032,059 148 „
1917.. 1,147,704 1,388,735 121 „
1918.. 1,215,087 1,516,946 124 „
1919.. 1,091,288 1,614,617 148 „
That proportion of 148 p c., if comfortable,
is not over-large. It means that after pay-
ment of current dividends the co. could face
claims 2$ times the size of last year’s losses
without the assistance of incoming premiums
and the bit accumulating day to day from
investments. Should funds give out there
would, of course, be the three-quarters of a
million of uncalled capital to fall back upon.
Still, the question arises, in view of the habit
of capitalising reserves, whether shareholders
should not for some years be satisfied with
their present very fat return while the
strength of the co. is built up still further.
Recently there has been a little too
much haste in passing out bonus capital.
The co. has reached a stage where it should
be able to make a raid on much of the
insurance business which is thoughtlessly
allowed to go overseas, feeding shareholders
who don’t spend their dividends in' Aus-
tralasia. And the greater strength which
this and other local - cos. can gather the
easier will they be able to capture what is
rightly their business.
The co’s investments are a healthy-looking
lot: —•
1913. 1919.
British Government stock .. £43,560 £261,958
M.L. public securities.. .. 164,160 552,719
Australian ~ . . . . 73,215 140,419
African ~ . . . . 24,381 7,100
Canadian „ . . .. - 10,825
U.S.A. bonds 91,627 208,917
S. American bonds . . . . 41,040 45,312
Jap and other bonds .. . ... 38,402 66,912
Mortgages . . . . . . 195,872 220,665
Freehold properties .. ... 332,849 399,572
Cash and agency balances, etc. 203,521 347,518
Total.. £1,208,627 £2,261,917
Thus of all assets 72.6 p.c. is represented by
public securities and cash.
The N.Z. Insurance Co. nowadays under-
takes trustee business as a side-line, and has
created a special department under its own
manager. In 1916 it had £184.754 of estates
under administration; at the latest balance
£664.420. No P. and L. account or balance-
sheet is submitted to show the profitable-
ness or otherwise of this branch, and no
information is forthcoming as to what capital
(if any) is specially earmarked for the pro-
tection of clients in the event of trouble.
If no capital protection apart from the insur-
ance backing has been provided, the position
is all right so long as the insurance funds
are not shaken by disaster. But the very
fact that insurance is a hazardous business
is sufficient reason why this department
should be protected by special funds. What
would happen if one of the old-established
trustee cos. suddenly decided to undertake
insurance business? Incidentally, after
having been g.-m. of the N.Z. Insurance Go.
for over 16 years, veteran James Buttle has
retired. H. P. Kissling now occupies his
chair.
* . * * •
The Solomon Islands Rubber Planta-
tions, Ltd. —During the latest financial year
this co. got in the last penny of its original
authorised capital of £60,000, but this and
the £BOOO mortgage raised on properties,
together with a bank overdraft, were insuf-
ficient to finance operations. So permission
was sought of the Federal Treasury to put
out 12.000 cum. prefs. The accounts now
presented are very belated, covering the 12
months to July 31 last, and at that date
only 6d. per share had been got in on the
new issue, which w T as fully subscribed.
Though the directors' report is a comprehen-
sive document which sets out the agricultural
and financial position of the co. very clearly,
it omits to mention what rate of div. the
cum. prefs. are entitled to, and in considering
the prospects of the ordinary holder that is
a point of much moment.
It is now nearly 10 years since Captain
Svensen put these Ysabel Island (British
Solomons) properties in the w r ay of the co.,
and it has been an expensive and slow pro-
cess trying to make them pront-earning. In
fact, shareholders were evidently so anxious
to sight some return that they agreed at the
last general meeting to a retrospective bonus
scheme for the manager if he could produce
results to specifications. On the largest of
the three estates, however, last year the
manager encountered cocoanuts of the go-slow
genus; a decreased output was explained by
the “lack of drainage and a portion of the
area taking a spell.” The result was that
totul production of copra for the year was
only 112,2831 b., compared with 161,4051 b. for
the previous 12 months. But since the
average price realised in Sydney improved by
£5 10s. per ton, gross proceeds at £l4BO were
a few pounds better than for the previous
year. So, after meeting all Island and Bris-
bane exes., and providing £2OO for renewals,
replacements and depreciation, a net profit
of £lO3 resulted. During the year 01 acres
were planted with cocoanuts; but so far only
210 of the 002 acres planted are in bearing.
As the co.’s title implies, it started off in
pursuit of rubber, too; but, apart from the
112 acres planted at the very beginning, the
co. has not concerned itself further with this
line, and no tapping has been done since
1914. The financial position of the co. at the
balance was as follows: £00,402 had been got
in by way of capital and calls paid in
advance: other liabilities amounted to £0018;
on the other side, £08,071 had been sunk in
freehold properties, development, buildings,
plant, etc., while more or less liquid assets
totted up £1544. No doubt the getting in of
further pref. capital has eased the position
since. The co.’s chances of making good
depend, of course, on the future of the copra
market (which looks promising), its ability
to secure reasonably cheap labor and its luck
in escaping cyclones and other pests. If the
co. does have a good trot, there are big possi-
bilities ahead, for it owns 14,000 acres of
freeholds and has so far only 1104 acres
under cultivation. But, as remarked before,
if distributable profits do show up shortly,
the position of the ordinaries is obscured by
the lack of information regarding the rate of
div. payable to the cum. prefs
J. C. Lunowici and Son, Ltd., leather
manufacturers, etc., Sydney:—
To He- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1912. . £3345 10 p.c. =£2832 £5l? £7061
June, 1913.. 3565 10 ~ „ 2832 733 7794
Dee., 1913.. 2127 8 ~ „ 2266 7655
June, 1914.. 1719 7 „ „ 1982 7392
Dec., 1914.. 1851 7 „ „ 1982 7261
June, 1915.. 2023 7 „ „ 1982 41 7302
Dec., 1915.. 2399 7 „ „ 1982 417 7719
June, 1916.. 2243 10 „ „ 2832 7130
Dec., 1916.. 2832 10 „ „ 2832 7130
June, 1917.. 2832 10 „ „ 2532 -- 7130
Dec., 1917.. 3116 10 „ „ 2832 254 7414
June. 1918.. 3135 10 „ ~ 2832 303 7717
Dec.. 1918.. 3206 10 ~ „ 2832 374 8091
June, 1919.. 3071 10 „ „ 2832 239 8330
Dee., 1919.. 3614 10 „ „ 2832 782 9112
This co. has recently been the victim of a
“scientific strike.” The leather-trades em-
ployees decided to press for increased wages ;
but the manufacturers considered the de-
mands unreasonable and advised the men to
take their claims to the Arbitration Court.
The union, however, is one which has
declared in favor of “direct action.” and
decided to dispense witn the Arbitration
Court and try a little pressure on one co..
hoping that when it, in desperation, granted
the increases, others in the business would
be easy prey. This was the co. singled out
for the experiment. But things have not
gone as the direct-actionists planned. Say
the directors: “With the aid of employees
who refused to be coerced, the factory has
continued working, though on a reduced
scale. The output, however, is fast approach-
ing normal, as those who have replaced the
strikers are quickly becoming proficient
workmen.” Trading conditions were so
favorable during the half-year that, despite
the trouble with the employees towards the
close of the run, a record net profit showed
up. But it has not been all easy sailing:
during the term the prices of raw materials
shot skyward and put a strain on finances.
Stock at June 30 last stood in the books
at £38.308. and sundry debtors owed £11.087 :
now these items have moved to £4O 401 and
£13.025 respectively. As a result liabilities
have grown from £4387 to £17.300 in the
six months. Though very often danger lurks
behind heavy accumulations of expensive
stocks, in this case there seems very little
likelihood of a slump in prices. Besides, the
old co. has always valued its assets eonser-
vatively, and no doubt provision has been
made for anything untoward happening to
the present stocks of raw material and
manufactured goods. Despite the heavier
liabilities the co.’s position is quite cosy:
at the'balance more or less liquid assets
amounted to £68,206. the surplus of liquid
assets over liabilities being £50,G00, or only
£5744 short of the paid capital. Freeholds
and buildings stand in the books at £15,960.
though actual present value is certainly
more than that, and plant, machinery, etc-..
are given a book value of £3120. In
August last portion of the co.’s factory was
damaged by fire, and the co. has taken
advantage of the opportunity to do some
remodelling. This programme and the strain
put on finances by the high cost of supplies
will necessitate further funds, so a new share
issue is likely at an early date.
* * * *
Tiieatke Royal Proprietary Co. (Mel-
bourne)
Writ-
ten To He- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
June, ’12..£1100 2* p.c. = £OOO £350 £l5O £2OOB
Deficit.
Dec., ’12.. 1090 2} „ „ COO 2050 110
Reserves.
June, ’13.. 1580 2} „ „ 000 480 494 34ft
Dec., ’13.. 1775 21 ~ „ 000 891 284 032
June, ’14.. 1539 21 ~ ~ 000 450 489 1121
Dec, ’14.. 1423 21 „ „ 000 450 373 1 101
June,’ls.. 1447 21 „ ~ 000 450 397 1891
Dec., ’15.. 1799 33 „ „ 900 450 449 2310
June, ’lO.. 1315 Si „ „ 900 300 116 2456
Dee., ’lO.. 1507 33 „ „ 900 300 307 2702
June, ’17.. 1472 3} „ „ 900 300 272 3034
Dec., ’17.. 1548 33 „ „ 900 300 348 3382
June,’lB.. 1011-33 „ „ 900 300 411 3793
Dec., ’lB.. 2320 33 „ „ 900 405 901 4754
June, ’19.. 2031 5 „ „ 1200 465 300 5120
Dec., ’19.. 2227 5 „ „ 1200 596 431 5551
Over it year ago £3300 was laid out in
remodelling the frontispiece of the Theatre
Royal, with the result that the co. is now
able to ask a little more rent: £GGOO flowed
in in this way during the past year, compared
with £5928 for 1918. And since exes, have
not increased much, though taxes sire now
calling for a little more, net profits have
improved. As from December 31 last the
Vic. Licensing Court delicensed the hotel
included in the theatre property and compen-
sation was assessed at £600; but the direc-
tors do not say anything about the probable
effect of the delicensing on future earnings.
Even the improved profits recently disclosed
give a very mild return on paid capital—
slightly over G| p.c. p.a. Shareholders get
only 5 p.c., the rest going to strengthen
reserves, which later on, when the co.’s rights
to its leaseholds expire, may be required to
replace capital. The present position of the
co. is that it has £33,890 represented by
perishables. In addition, there are freehold
premises set down as worth £11,937 and a
surplus of more or less liquid assets over
liabilities amounting to £9426. There is
thus £21,363 of the paid capital of £48,000
represented by assets which have permanent
moorings with the co.; and there remains
£26,637 of capital to be made good should
the co. go out of business when the lease
expires in about 30 years. This means that
after providing for repairs, renewals, etc.,
and after giving shareholders a bite, an
average of about £450 per half-year must be
piled up in assets which the co. can call its
own. During the past four years, despite
the heavy outlay on renovations, etc., that
pace has just been maintained, and of course
the more the fund accumulates the more
easily can the pace be maintained. So if
improved profits continue shareholders may
hope for something a little better than 5 p.c..
which is a miserable return nowadays.
Newcastle-Wallsend Coal Co. (N. S.
Wales) : —•
To Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1910. . £15,677 15 p.c. = £15,000 £677 £52,151
1911.. 9,857 10 ~ „ 10,000 —■ 52,008
1912.. 11,100 10 „ „ 10,000 1,100 53,108
1913 .. 18,656 17} „ „ 17,500 1,156 54,264
Assets written up and £lOO,OOO
transferred to capital . . 63.966
1914.. 20,781 10 p.c. = 20.000 781 64,747
1915.. 7,370 5 „ „ 10,000 62,117
1916.. 10,041 5 „ ~ 10,000 41 62,158
1917.. 21,600 5 „ „ 10,000 11,600 73,758
1918.. 29,242 8| „ „ 17,500 11,742 85,500
1919.. 32,463 10 ~ ~ 20,000 12,463 97.963
This co. now presents its accounts once
instead of twice each year, so the table has
been reconstructed to show results for 12-
month terms in the past decade. There
is a big discrepancy between the profits
claimed by the directors and the figures given
above. For the past year, for instance, the
directors set down the results in this
way: “Profit on sales of coal, receipts from
traction over co.’s railway, etc., etc., after
making provision for depreciation, etc., etc.,
£20,963.” The etceteras count for a lot:
to begin with, the profit claimed by the
directors does not include these additions to
visible reserves; general reserve, £2000;
insurance account, £6500" div. equalisation
account, £3OOO. That £11,500 added to the
figures given by the directors makes the
£32,463 shown in the table. But whether
depreciation of the wasting asset is provided


The advantage of having battery charging current
on tap in the ; home garage is now within til'- reach
of every motorist. The O.E. Mercury Arc Battery
Charger makes any ordinary lighting circuit a source
of energy for starting, lighting, and ignition bat-
teries. Its cost is a mere trifle compared with the
convenience and economy of home charging. An
overnight boosting charge every few weeks will not
only increase the efficiency of a batterv, but will
also lengthen the life of the plates. You should
get one of these outfits. Australian General Electric
Company. Wentworth Avenue, Sydney ; and corner of
Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
Conserved water, especially in country districts,
quickly becomes contaminated. To drink such water
exposes one to grave danger from disease. Alumino-
ferric quickly clarifies and purifies water in dams,
tanks, etc. You use it in the proportion of lib. to
every 3000 gallons of water. Most effective and
quite harmless. Used by leading Water Supply
Boards throughout Australia. Sold everywhere.
William Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth. — Advt. [3
The latest copper-smelting plant to be erected in
Australia is that of the Mount Cuthbert Company
in North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power-
plant with boilers, generating sets and blowers,
blast . furnace, copper converters and converter re-
fining plant, blister gathering and cleaning shed,
also steel bins for ore and coke. Wherever possible
the plant is electrically driven. The whole of the
plant was supplied by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne, who have made numerous smelting
plants working in Australia at present.— Advt. [2
* * » •
Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe.—Copy of extract received
from the Victorian Hardwood Milling & Seasoning Co.
Pty., Ltd., 20th February, 1919: “In reference to your
communication of the 13th inst., we hafe to state
that the wooden pipes supplied by your Company
have given entire satisfaction and are in a thorough
good state of preservation. (Sgd.) Chris. Ingram,
Managing • Director.” Send for our illustrated cata-
logue. The Australian Wood Pipe Company Ltd.,
(II.O.) Burns Bay Road, Longueville, N.S.W. Con-
tractors to all State Governments.— Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink s Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney ; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. (London); Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work; contractors advised; railway work.
00 Queen-street, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
The manufacture of ‘Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine aiid industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
large marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
Tasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Svdney.—
Advt.
.** * • *
The ever-increasing wages for labor are causing
more attention to be given to mechanical appliances
for saving labor wherever possible. Messrs. Arthur
Leplastrier and Co., Circular Quay (East), Sydney, who
maintain a special engineering department for this
class of work, will supply drawings and estimates of
equipment to suit any requirement. Put your pro-
posals up to them. Queensland inquiries: The Austra-
lian Machinery Co., Ltd., Mary Street, Brisbane.
—Advt.
* * * •»
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
» * • *'
T. 11. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne. ’ ’—A dvt,
» • • •
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s k Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. IT. B. Selby k Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb. — Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
to 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 244,306
Paid-up Capital .. 122,000
Income (Cross) 1918 .. 457,852
Established 1910.
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. 11. CAVK, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
Metropolitan-Vickers Electrical Co., Etd.
Everything Electrical
whether for the production, distribution or application of electricity for
power and lighting purposes is manufactured by The Metropolitan-Vickers
Electrical Co., Ltd. They offer the advantage of undivided responsibility
for power and lighting equipments.
Their productions include: Steam Turbines, Turbo-Generators, Blowers and
Compressors* Condensers, AC and DC Generators and Motors, Electric
Tramway and Railway Equipments, Transformers and Converters. Switch
and Control Gear, Meters and Instruments, Lamps, Fans and all Electrical
Accessories.
ICK-CTS
CO. LTh
ELECT Aj CAL
Australian Offices—
84 William Street, Melbourne.
14 Martin Place, Sydney.
Works*: —Trafford Parity Manchester, England.
T ry
0
AINSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Th® Oldest Mutual e ire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in
Australia.
Losses from Fire, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation, Motor
Car, Plate-Glass Breakage. Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops,
Stacks, HaTstone. etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN' BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY IT. CARY. J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
for apart from these reserves, and, if so,
liow much, is not apparent. The latest
balance-sheet shows an increase of f1G.171 in
the book value of fixed assets during the
year. Development work is still proceeding
at the Pelton colliery, and the £10,171 repre-
sents the excess of expenditure over and
above the amount (if any) written off all
assets and sales of land; but there is no
hint as to the extent of these items. Appa-
rently profits were helped by surpluses from
realisations, since “further sales of surplus
surface lands were made during the year at
satisfactory prices.”
The Newcastle-Wallsend's interests were
formerly confined to the Borehole seam at
Newcastle p it still operates the Wallsend.
.Tesmond, Elermore Yale and Elermore Tunnel
collieries there, gross production for the five
years to 1918 amounting to 1,717,600 tons,
of which 1,204,820 tons came from the
Wallsend. In 1915 1277 acres of freehold
were acquired at Maitland ; production com-
menced in earnest in 1918, when over 11,000
tons were dug out. The operations at this
Pelton colliery have given the co. a big lift
and partly explain the improved profits dur-
ing the past couple of years. Further ex-
planation of the co.’s prosperity is given in
Royal Commissioner Campbell’s report,
wherein he stated that the increase of price
of coal to the public by the Commonwealth
Government more than covered the extra
wages bill the cos. were called upon to meet.
But though the co. has been doing very well
indeed, the past year’s 10 p.c. div. has cut
into cash reserves. After paying the final
div. for 1918 there remained surplus cash
assets totalling £6401. Adding the past
year's interim div. to the surplus liquid
assets at the latest balance gives £22,09.'!,
thus showing £10,292 of net cash assets
stored up during the year, or £3708 short
of the dividend requirements. This, of
course, has been due to the outlay on the
Pelton. Since development work began
there, the balance-sheet figures have moved
in this way:—
1915. 1917. 1918. 1919.
Liabilities ..£22,622 £33,693 £36,641 £42,999
Fixed assets .. 230,682 261,435 279,098 295.270
Liquid assets . . 59,056 51,016 53,043 55,692
During the past four years £57,500 has been
paid in dividends, equal to an average of
over 7 p.c. p.a. of paid capital. But since
half of the present paid capital consists of
bonus shares issued in 1914, the 7 p.c. is
worth much more than that to old holders.
After paying current divs. the Newcastle-
Wallsend had a liquid surplus of £2693;
four years ago the total was £31,434. Mean-
time the.book value of fixed assets has ex-
panded by £04,588. The progress of the
co. is best put in this way : besides paying
good dividends to shareholders the manage-
ment has in four years developed a valuable
new property without having to call in fresh
capital, and all except £28.741 of the cost
has been borne by current revenue.
So many commodities are going into card-
board cartons nowadays that the Cumber-
land Paper Board Mills, Ltd. (Sydney), is
doing better under the artificial protection of
high freights, etc., for the moment so much
in local cos.’ favor. For the half to Dec. 31
last shareholders get a div. at the rate of
12 p.c. p.a., but that only makes up for the
drop from 10 to 8 p.c. in the previous year,
when portion of the mills went up in smoke.
Prospects looking good, the directors some
time ago decided on extensions, and £35.000
of second prefs. were issued—they were fully
subscribed, making total capital £135,000 —
to pay for additional plant, which will
modernise the mills and make them capable
of turning out a very big proportion of the
Commonwealth’s paper-hoard requirements.
* * * *
The Bacchus Marsh Concentrated Milk
Co., Ltd., goes out of business after nearly
20 years of it. The why and wherefore of
the sale of assets is not stated in the cir-
cular letter to shareholders: they are merely
told that “after full consideration, the direc-
tors have agreed to dispose of the business.”
that it will realise £315,057. and that 30s.
per £1 share, in addition to a current div. of
Is., will be available for distribution. There
is apparently something in the deal which
does not meet the eye ; and shareholders do
not seem to be by any means unanimous on
the question of putting up the shutters,
* * # *
The White Hope. Hampton Plains, is get-
ting ready to crosscut from two shafts at
something under 50ft. from* the surface, find
it looks odds-on that good stuff will be
exposed at both points. Lionel Robinson’s
local adviser, Dick Hamilton, and Herbert
Daly think a great deal of the show, and
both seem confident that it will develop into
a big thing. So far nothing payable has
been struck in the holdings adjacent to the
Hope, but there are reasonable possibilities
in the Hampton Uruguay Co.’s adjoining
north and south reserve blocks.
Hampton Celebration has got a move on,
but as the co. is bent on getting depth before
undertaking other work, it may be some
time before much is heard of the show.
Mutooroo, the third and only other show on
gold at Hampton Plains, looks well; but in
view of the insignificant amount of work
done on the property to date, shares are at
a big price. Judgment is reserved in regard
to the prospects of a number of blocks sur-
rounding the Mutooroo, whose value, accord-
ing to option holders and sellers, is enormous.
Probably the best of the lot will prove to be
the ground to the north, held under option
by the Borland and Tara syndicates, which
recently had a reverse at Broad Arrow.
“O.B.” : I am satisfied that it is useless
to attempt to sober speculators during a
mining-boom jag. Recent events at Hamp-
ton Plains recall a few experiences I have
had as a mine-valuer. There was the Boulder
Half-Mile South, which, after I had declared
it to be worthless, was appraised by specula-
tors at £BOO,OOO. Not one ton of payable
ore was ever taken out of the show. Another
“mine” in the same locality producing no-
thing but water went from 2d. to £1 per
share “on prospects,” and later two ven-
turesome brokers who had taken liberties
with its shares had to skip by moonlight.
Years afterwards I was foolish enough to
describe a copper-stained delusion in Italy
as a fraud, and had the mortification of
seeing it valued in the market later at nearly
a million. Then the late Jack Scantlebury
took a hand and down came the blind. Still
later, at Westonia, I estimated the value of
Golden Point scrip at Is. per cwt., but the
shares soared to 225. or thereabouts before
the market broke. Then I tried to retrieve
mv reputation by declaring that Edna May
Centrals were dear at £l. The market
laughed, and shares rose to £G.
* * * *
In Nov., 1918, Boulder Perseverance
(W.A.) decided that it had come to the end
of its run, and decided to call in a liquidator.
Since then tributors have rooted out over
£200,000 worth gold, and some of the co.’s
English shareholders have been feeling very
sore, and have been asking how the manage-
ment came to miss such a quantity of metal.
The liquidator, having received no offer for
the mine and plant, has now let tributes for
a further 15 months. It is on the cards that
if tributors continue to do well, the co. may
decide to reconstruct and rake over the old
bones on its own account.
Paringa Mines, Ltd., the English concern
which at one time worked a property adjoin-
ing the old Brown Hill (W.A.), is still doing
a little prospecting on its Kalgoorlie holding.
The chairman told shareholders in London
recently that it might do more if labor
offered. Paringa was anxious to lay hold of
something at Hampton Plains, but got left
in the crush. The co.’.s principal interests
now are in Rhodesia, but they don’t seem to
be worth much.
Cope's Creek Central (N.S.W.) has had
drought difficulties to contend with on its
old Tingha leases, so got only 18 tons con-
centrates compared with 31f tons for the
previous six months. Cope’s Creek was so
dry that when a difficult patch of 41,050yd5.
had been scooped out insufficient water
remained to float the plant on to a new
site. However, new dams have been con-
structed to provide against future dry
spells. At Skeleton Creek, near Glen Innes,
the co. beat the drought, and though opera-
tions were in harder and shallower ground
(which helped to lift costs to over lOd.)
the plant averaged above the lb. —133,867
cub. yds. giving 63$ tons concentrates, nearly
three tons more than for the previous half.
Altogether the c-o. produced 81$ tons con-
centrates compared with 92$ tons for the
earlier half, but the market was so healthy
that sales realised £13.801, or £ll9O more.
The result was a working profit of £5098
and £lB6B net. The last divs. were in 1918,
when four of Is. each were squeezed out;
but towards the end of last vear the co.
got on to the call-list, apparently to pur-
chase and equip the Bald Ivnob leases, and
Is. per share has flowed back. At the bal-
ance £BOO of this call had not been got in;
nevertheless, there was a surplus of more
or less liquid assets over liabilities of £4300.
* * * *
Under J. L. Wharton, the present option-
holding co. has spent £50,000 on developing
the Laloki and Dubuna mines (Papua). This
represents 10s. on each of the 100,000 shares
on the register. Now, instead of calling up
another 10s., the plan is to reconstruct the
co. with a quarter-million share register. Old
holders are to get a £1 fully-paid share for
each one now held, and have the right to
apply for 75.000 new shares at Is. on appli-
cation and Is. on allotment. This scheme
allows £25 000 more to be called up than
would have been possible in the old co.
Further, if developments go the right way
and further capital is needed, there are
75.000 reserve shares to be placed. Laloki
offers 300.000 tons 4.8 p.c. copper ore, with
a sweetener in the shape of 2sdwt. gold
and soz. silver, as well as such high iron
and sulphur contents as to make furnacing
a joy to the metallurgist. The financing skill
of Collins House is snown by the fact that
it has persuaded the trustees of the Great
Fitzrev debenture-holders —Great Fitzroy
once fathered Laloki —to take the old agreed
£40.000 purchase price for the show in the
form of an issue of non-interest-bearing
bonds, to be redeemed by the application of
three-fourths of the net profits of the mine.
Then there is to be a royalty of 2s. per ton
to the original lessees of the Laloki, and
£15.000 a.so out of the profits to pay for
the Dubuna. George Klug and Erie Hunt-
ley have done the estimating and examining;
and they say copper can be got at £45 per
ton. As a plant to treat 0000 to 7500 tons
ore monthly is to be at. work by the end of
this year, it looks as if Collins House has
the cash in signt to cover the outgo for
the smelter and accessories. A 5000-h.p.
power-station is to be built on the Laloki
River falls.
Since the Money Miller crowd took over
the New Moon and North Argus from
Dyason’s Amalgamated and formed the Ben-
digo. Al, £25,0t>0 has been spent in testing
synclines and anticlines. But practically not
a color was got, and in this venture it looked
as though luck had at last deserted them.
Last week, however, gold suddenly showed
up in some of the spurry makes south in the
North Argus at 935 ft. Development has
not gone far enough to say definitely whether
the dabs are lone strangers, but the indica-
tions are the best sighted in the Moon group
for many a long day. Almost simultaneously
good gold was also got in 2ft. of quartz
on the east back at 1142 ft., off the New
Moon shaft. As there is plenty of ground
available off each of these developments, luck
may yet be with the Miller group.
* * * *
Al, Gaffney’s (Vic.), went to leeward to
the extent of £1927 last half-year. The
official reasons are that the co. had to pur-
sue the programme of development sketched
out by manager Till 18 months ago. But
what really went wrong was that the stone
pot down to the lOdwt. mark, and as there
was not enough even of that to keep the
mill going calls to the extent ,of
4s. 9d. per snare had to be got in.
This was disheartening to those who had
held on to scrip; but their reward may
come from the new floor of quartz picked
up iibove 1132 ft. Till believes he can
carry on without fresh calls while he gets
the new level at 1352 ft. going.
Another erratic mountaineer in the
Dickenson nursery is the Morning Star,
Wood's Point, whose dyke-basin quartz-
floors at shallow depths gave some of the
richest gold ever got in Victoria. The old
hands deserted the .Morning Star ages ago,
believing that the quartz floors would not
recur at depth. The unexpected happened
at the Al ; and at the Morning Star some
decent grade stone has been proved at each
of the three levels opened up.
* * * •
“P.J.M.”: He “G.D.M.’s” plea for Vic-
toria’s neglected goldfields (B. 25/12/T9).
At the very backdoor of Melbourne is Queens-
town, which was unfortunate enough to be
one of the first discovered fields in the
State. Its modest returns were over-
shadowed by the golden glories of other
places, and although the records of the Mines
Department show that over a million pounds’
worth of gold was won with primitive appli-
ances in a brief period, the field still remains
untested below the surface zone. Reefs such
as the Lancashire and the Homeward Bound
were abandoned when the first fault in the
country came in, and although the average
yield was high no one has been sufficiently
enterprising to try to pick up the reefs again.
Thompson’s Oaks (N.Q.) is in the hands
of tributors nowadays; but the members of
the tribute syndicate are also shareholders
in the co. The concern reached the stage
when it had exhausted its calling power on
the 50,000 shares of 10s. each, and share-
holders split on the* question of prospects.
Instead of attempting a reconstruction to
secure further funds for development and
to instal additional plant, those who
had faith decided to save the situation by
financing the co. to continue operations
until the mine became profit-earning.” In
consideration for putting up the necessary
cash, they secured a tribute over the pro-
perty extending for 16 months from the date
of the first crushing. Of the 30 tribute
shares offered 27£ were taken up, and
£3575 had been paid up at the latest bal-
ance. All but a few pounds of this went
in meeting last year’s expenses, but with
the aid of a call or two the management
now anticipates getting the battery talking
and being able to “show a considerable profit
over working exes.” Latest developments
were in stone going up to 20z., so the tri-
bute syndicate has a reasonable hope of
seeing some of its money back. By the
end of next year shareholders in the co.
who are now sitting on the fence will have
another opportunity to go after their bit if
the syndicate pulls through.
* * * *
S. Ans. Oil Co.’s well at Tantanoola is
now down over 1410 ft.. 113 ft. having been
sunk during the fortnight covered bv the
latest report. The drill has got through the
nue_ sand and into brownish-grey clay. It
lately struck a gas pocket, “smelling l : ke
petrol. ’ so the manager savs. One of the
staff was singed ; that’s all that has come of
it so far.
* * ' * 4*
The proposal to make cement and other
things at Ida Bay (Tas.), which Sammy
Dawson battled at for years before he took
a spell of easier duty at the Front, has been
revived. There is a mountain of limestone
near Ida Bay, with coal seams handy; also,
there is clay. The idea is to turn out bricks
and sell coal and lime as well as cement. A
capital of £250,000 for the full show is talked
of; but £lOO,OOO will probably be the capital
to start with.


THE POT AND THE KETTLE, AND THE BILLY BLACK!


A Strong Boot for Country Wear.
Built for hard wear and wet places—a boot of
extreme strength, absolutely waterproof, and yet
comfortable to the feet. Made with high legs,
stout leather lining, extra-wide welts, heavy
double rope-stitched soles (with sheet rubber
packed between). Full-cut water-tight tongues,
rounded toes. This boot is fully recommended
for station, farm and general outdoor wear in
rough country.
Tan Colt Hide . . 50/-
In Black . . . . 45/-
Peapes’ Pay Postage.
Please state size and width of fitting.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
d
\Aeltoman
I T I HIGH-CLASS
JSPEpiALTIES
Creams
ard
Pastes
for
Cleaning S Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS anA SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St, Sydney;
Russell St, Mofbourne.
Os
8?
E. DROWN <§ SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL • OVER • THE • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management cf Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
QUITE ACCORDING TO PROGRAMME.
DISTRESSED FATHER: “ You are dressing
much beyond our means!"
MARRIAGEABLE DAUGHTER: "But you're not
worrying, are you, daddy'? You said
you knew it would be means to an end.”
S. Aus. Supreme Court has endorsed the
staggering proposition that a girl may be a
mother without knowing it. A country store-
keeper heard faint sounds from an outbuild-
ing, and called in the police, who found an
infant that had breathed and died. The
domestic servant, an unintelligent girl of 19,
was charged with murder. She su’d from the
dock that she had been at work since 14,
that her mother “never told me any of the
things a woman ought to know,’’ that she
had not known she was going to have a child,
and finally was merely aware of having been
seized with sharp pains. Then Judge Gordon
recalled a parallel English case in which
acquittal had been directed by the Bench;
and it took the Adelaide jury only five
minutes to give the same verdict.
“Tom W.” : I didn’t find it so easy as
“Skipper” suggests (B. 32/2/'2O) to send
across the Channel souvenirs labelled
“Officer's Surplus Kit.” Surplus kit was
generally sent to some dump in France to be
collected when opportunity offered. A better
plan was to ticket the. stuff “Sick Officer's
Ivit.” Conk, the Souvie King of our battalion,
got most of his pickings across that way.
But the fine haul he made at Villers-Bret.
was lost through his slight Hunnish accent
and the dulness of his “dingbat.” Being
booked for a military school immediately after
the stunt, he had to give hurried verbal
orders as to the disposal of the curios. The
resourceful youth securely packed the stuff,
camouflaged it with hessian and told the
dingbat to label it “Sick Officer’s Kit.” The
dingbat obeyed instructions to the letter and
labelled the case “Sig. Officer’s Kit.” When
last heard of Conk was still scouring the
dumps of France in search of it.
* * * *
“Third Divvy”: A worse feature than
the soldier-politician’s idea of his own im-
portance, mentioned by “X-I'atch” (B.
5/2/’2O), was the reverence he commanded
in some officers. The politician was looked
upon as a likely good friend, sure to have
a useful pull, and was cultivated; and he
was certain of promotion and honorable
mention directly he arrived. For this reason
the decorations and rank of all politicians
(who, the press pars make a point of men-
tioning. “enlisted as privates”) are open to
profound suspicion. Even one politician who
undoubtedly did see the line and some real
service got liis decoration in a suspicious
fashion. Anxious to distinguish himself lie
took a turn up and down the line during
a middlinsr-heavy barrage ; and his C. 0., in-
stead of at the very least telling him not
to make a dashed fool of himself, took the
opportunity to recommend him for “gallantry
under enemy fire.” But Heaven only knows
what gallant deed it was that won his decora-
tion for a much-boomed legislator who,
according to the men of his battalion, was
five days in the line, and that during a
very quiet time. Perhaps it was for heroic-
ally saving himself by staying away after
that one brief experience.
“Nitric”: It was near Cerisy during the
August push that finished Fritz. My platoon
was on the extreme left of the Aussies, and
after a lot of dirty work we were again
advancing in open formation. Just as we
got into a bit of a valley the word was
passed back. “Here comes Jerry !” Most of
us got the wind up and some showed it badly,
when we suddenly spotted him. a poor old
wounded Boche, tired and weak from loss
of blood, stumbling over the rise. Jerry! A
relieved laugh went round, the windy ones
making the most noise. I could only ejacu-
late “The poor cow!” for I’d seen that
identical Boche before—a prisoner in “Blond-
and Guts” gully, near Tillers Bretonneux.
He’d won the double.
“Sixo” : Ballarat and
Bendigo are among the fool
towns that handed over
their streets for tramway
purposes to an English
shindylcit on a thirty-years
lease in 1901, and both get
just the kind of service
they deserve. In Ballarat’s
case the cars are horse-
trams converted, and the
oldest inhabitant alleges
that his father remem-
bers them being built in
Adelaide. The co. has made
two short extensions during
its monopoly of the streets,
and now it has the hide to
put up a proposition that if
granted a longer lease—
presumably twenty years
longer—it will get in ad-
ditional capital, not to
extend its service and
replace its prcadamite
cars, but to make more
current to sell to indus-
trial Ballarat and Bendigo. The impu-
dence of the proposal should be enough to
get it outed ; but in Ballarat and Bendigo
the City Fathers are the same old Bumbles,
so there are doubts about it.
. * * * *
From “Our Own Co-respondent” :—-
Justice McCardie in London has decided that
when the lady is lined away by the beauty of the
villain’s clothes and moustache and his elegant car-
riage, her lawful proprietor may claim damages
(1) for the loss of her value as a housekeeper and
her help in business, and (2) for the damage done
to his honor. But, the Judge added, if the lady
was of a light or wanton disposition beforehand, it
would lessen her value. It is difficult to see why
this should be a fixed rule. Such a lady may be
TOTAL PROHIBITION.
of far more use as a housekeeper and business help
and companion than one of a heavy or massive dis-
position, and her husband may have more honor to
be damaged than the heavy woman's husband. It
seems that when a gem, whether it is a person’s
dignity or his oil-painting, is smashed by a woman,
the smash is the same whether the person who did
it is light or heavy. Finally, Judge McCardie
decided that if the lady represents herself as single
no damages will be recoverable. Even if it is
her first falling away from orthodoxy and she passes
herself as a spinster from sheer bashfulness, she
has no value as a cook and mender, while the one
who is in her third elopement and makes no dis-
guise of the fact has a price, however low. So
the husband of the amateur eloper loses his house-
keeper, shirt-repairer and his dignity all gratis.
Thjjt was all as regards the wife as an eloper. But
hi? Honor, in his haste to rush in where angels keep
off the grass, added that a wife can’t get damages
from the siren who steals her goodman, because
she has no claim on his services. Yet he is sup-
posed to be her breadwinner, clothes-provider, parcel-
carrier, door-opener and permanent car fare! I
am not impressed by this craze for putting a matter
of sentiment under tidy definitions. The old way
whereby the jury looked at all three parties, and
especially hard at the two who ran away, and then
made a rough guess at the figure was as good as any.
“Caroline”: During the war the difficulty
of dealing with Mary Ann’s mania for
collecting followers almost disappeared. It
has recurred, and is a larger problem than
ever. Our own Ann Mary had been
solemnly warned of the consequences of
having men about the house, my husband’s
business rendering it particularly inad-
visable to encourage visits from strangers.
The other night, having reason to suspect
that Ann was “entertaining,” I called on her.
The place was in strict order, and only
cigarette smoke hinted at the presence of
the enemy. “Ann,” said I, “you know what
to expect if you are caught with men in this
kitchen? You will have to leave, and the
men will be prosecuted for trespass.” At
this the man under the table moved, and,
further subterfuge being useless, came out.
Next a man stepped forth from the linen-
press, and joined his friend. Already Ann’s
sudden consternation was wearing off. “Yes,
ma’am,” she said; “I thought it best they
should hear it from your own lips.”
“Mill” : Sergeant-majors often debate
whether they are senior sergeants or majors
of an inferior rank. The fact is the sergeant-
major was originally a general. At the time
of Cromwell the army was led by three
generals—the captain-general, the lieutenant
(or deputy 1 general and the sergeant-major-
general. The captain-general was the com-
mander-in-chief ; the lieutenant-general his
chief-assistant, responsible for the general
training and efficiency of the men ; and the
sergeant-major-general for the ordnance and
supply end of the business. On the army
being reorganised into companies each com-
pany was treated as a miniature army, with
the captain as commander, the lieutenant as
deputy, and the sergeant-major as the mother
of the company. The titles of the generals
were shortened; hence it is that a major-
general is junior to a lieut.-genera l though a
major is senior to a lieutenant. Hence, too.
the plural of sergeant-major is not sergeants-
maior. though it is usually spelt so.
* * * *
“Torres Strait”: A remote islet in Torres
Strait had as its only inhabitants a white
man, his native wife and their 10 children.
The remarkable thing about the family was
HA! HA! DBMS IT ALL! AWFULLY
SMART, DONCHERNO!
SHE: "I shouldn't like my thoughts to be
read."
HE: "Ah, no doubt if they could be read
your face would be redder!"
that the eldest child was a very fair half-
caste, strongly resembling the father. There
was a regular gradation downwards, the
youngsters growing darker and less like
whites in their characteristics, till the last
was just about as black as the mother. As
the man’s virility weakened, apparently, the
mother’s characteristics asserted themselves
more.
JUST LOOKING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“This country is too beautiful. I am so busy
looking, there doesn’t seem to be time to do any-
thing else.” —Letter of an English visitor.
I am too busy with gazing at things
To note the song that the swift clock sings.
The sea and the sand and the blossom and tree
And the little blue wren and the little black bee
And the wattle-bougli and the silken cow
And the green on the hills are too much for me.
1 sit in the shade and I look and look
At the riotous fern in a little brown nook,
While over the top of a waratah high
A dreaming ferry-boat whispers by;
Or I stand on a rock and look right down
On the twinkling lights of Fairytown,
While the white stars dance —oh, a single glance
At the white mooy climbing a she-oak tree
Is altogether too much for me 1
And if I should weary of things like these
There are dozens of beautiful sights to please;
For there are the views of Prime Minister Hughes,
Such visions of jaw as nobody saw
Since the builders of Babel first told the news
With fresh-made adjective, verb and noun
That the bricks and mortar had tumbled down.
To watch such eloquence fine and free
Is at times a little too much for me.
I am too busy with gazing at things,
At the market song that the beefsteak sings,
While up and down like the mining stocks
Hoes the simple potato Jack-in-the-box.
And ever and ever 1 watch the ships
Sitting and dreaming in toil’s eclipse.
As, two and two, the idle crew
Pose in the kingdom of Nothing-to-do
And deftly spit at the wondering sea,
The picture is sometimes too much for me.
I gaze and gaze through the heat and haze
AVhere over the hills run the far red ways—
Over the hills for a thousand miles
Of bird and blossom and sun and smiles —
To a land that could keep in absolute clover
The white man’s race the whole world over;
And I know that a sheep and a moulting hen
And one stray dog and two stray men
Are all I should meet in a long day’s ride
From the place where Jack, with the dawn at his
back,
Sat wondering and looking
To the place where John, with his rapt look on,
Saw the sunset cooking—
The splendid West where the big dreams rest
Waiting and waiting the years to be.
The sight is o' lost too much for me!
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


NO MORE INDIGESTION.
Beneficial Results Achieved by Bisurated Magnesia.
Soon we may hear no more of indigestion,
dyspepsia, heartburn, flatulence, wind or
similar forms of digestive and stomach
troubles, for really excellent results are being
obtained from the use of a simple antacid
known as bisurated magnesia. Quite a typi-
cal instance of the efficacy of this product is
contained in a letter recently sent us by Mr.
W. J. Marktelow, of Newstead. Waikato,
Auckland, who says:—“l suffered with pains
in my stomach for twenty years, and although
I visited doctors both in New Zealand and
England, I obtained no lasting benefit until
I tried bisurated magnesia. That was about
three years ago; and although I am 63
years of age, bisurated magnesia still
keeps me well, and I would not be without
it.’’ Similar cases are reported almost daily,
and it is now regarded as certain that the old
unsatisfactory methods of treatment, such as
dieting and drugging, will soon become obso-
lete, for whereas drugs merely alleviate the
symptoms, Hsurated magnesia removes the
cause of the trouble. That is to say, it neu-
tralises the harmful acid in the stomach,
stops the food fermenting, dispels wind and
soothes and heals the inflamed stomach
lining. To accomplish these desirable results
it is only necessary to take half a teaspoon-
ful of the Hsurated magnesia in a little
water after meals—no alteration in diet need
be made. It is important though that suf-
ferers should ask the chemist very distinctly
for bisurated magnesia, as. of course, the
results mentioned could not be expected from
ordinary forms of magnesia, such as the
acetates or citrates. —Advt.
ComtCafoe
GRACEFUL, LIGHT, DISTINCTIVE
CORSETS & BUST BODICES.
Particularly suited for colonial wear
Madame So urn’s creations embody the
latest Parisian style, comfort and
elegance. Made of specially
light material—unstretchable,
keep their shape, bones un-
breakable.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Illustrated catalogue, giving full par-
ticulars and self-measurement form,
free on application.
MAISON SOUM,
193 Regent Street, London W.,
England.
And at PARIS.
S/:.\
ilv\
V*
One of Madame
Sown’B own cre-
ations, corset
and bust bodice
combined.
Corsets from 39/6- Send for catalogue.
A Vic. aviator killed a man at Geelong oil
Saturday. The pilot had been flying low over
a crowd, and he flew so low in the end that
he hit a spectator and broke his neck. Ilis
justification is that there is still no
law in Australia which forbids low
or any other form of dangerous flying.
The States won’t give the Federal
Parliament power to legislate ; and flying
being essentially an inter-State activity the
States aren't disposed to legislate them-
selves. The Boorara is shortly arriving
with a shipment of ’planes and
'plane engines, and many more machines
are listed for the near future. Satur-
day’s disaster occurred despite the fact that
the pilot—like all those that Australia has
seen to date—is a highly-skilled man. The
undertakers will not begin to be kept really
busy until the amateurs, drunks and incom-
petents take to the air. That time is
approaching, but still no Government makes
a move.
* * # «
“Ida" sends an affidavit with it :•
Farmer lluy lent us his barn for our “darnce,”
and we finished our preparations, closed the door
and went home. Later in the afternoon two Indians
arrived, and asked to camp in the barn for the night.
After argument they were given permission to sleep
ill the loft, providing they did not show themselves
to the company. (This transpired afterwards.)
About 11 thut night, during a waltz, a brown
apparition dropped from the celling. It was clad
only in a short shirt, and after one wild glance
round to get its bearings, it started to career
round the barn, hands outstretched, and yelling.
"Oh, ’ell I W’er’ door? Oh, ’ell! W’er’ door?” Most
of the girls rushed screaming to the “dressing
room,” or into the night, with their boys after
them. My partner dropped me, sat on the floor
with his back against the wall, and his legs straight
out, helpless with laughter. I really don't know
what I did, but I remember seeing Ram I.al dis-
appear through the dressing-room door, singing
His “Oh, ’ell! W’er’ door?” only to re-appear, pro-
pelled by 20 shrieking females, and still chanting.
When the riot was over we found that Ram Lai,
wakened by the revel below, had opened the trap-
door in the roof and peeped down. Then his mate
w oke, and started exploring also; but the flooring
board was loose and when he got off it it tipped up
and Ram Lai found himself “amongst those present.”
* * * *
“?|lulga”; Springfield station, Blackall
iQ.), now lias probably the deepest hole for
artefian water in the world. It is down
670(|:t., thus far without hitting a flow; but
prospects are good and
drilling is still in pro-
gress. Over the N. S.
Wales border Boronga
has a good flow at
4338 ft., and that seems
to be the deepest Ma
has got; but in the
Blackall country water
has been found at well
over 6000 ft., and out
Innamincka (S-A.) way
Patchawarra gets a
trickle from just less
than 5500 ft. So far
none of these very deep wells are real top-
notchers.
* * * *
“Murkah”: Re sprinting for departing
trains (B. 5/2/’2O). At Liverpool once an
overdue Digger was asked how he came to
miss the train in Sydney. “To tell you the
Gor’s truth,” he replied, “the blanky plat-
form wasn’t long enough.”
* * » *
“Hamer”: Man goes to his feeding-trough
like the pigs. Usually 1 do so myself: but
the other day, being hurried as well as
hungry, I ate sandwiches in Pitt-street and
created a sensation. Friends tried not to
see me, and people who were strangers
turned their heads to see more of me. A
lady wdiom I saluted with a hat in one hand
and a ham sandwich in the other looked
indignant. I wasn’t drunk: I wasn’t dis-
graceful. I was sitnply eating sandwiches.
Yet the traffic constable appeared to be un-
certain whether he ought not to arrest me
as an obstruction. Why should the mere
fact that a man eats away from his trough
create such a sensation? Some day I intend
to eat a whole fish lunch in Pitt-street; and
I will drop the oyster-shells in the baskets
provided for waste tickets, and put the
prawn-heads and fishbones in my own or
other people’s pockets, so that there shall
be no offence against the city bylaws. My
idea will be to test the power of the com-
munity to withstand a shock to its settled
notions of what constitutes respectability:
and I don’t mind bettiuc that the effect will
be so revolutionary that when the S. M.
llekald hears about it two or three weeks
later she will publish a leading article
mentioning “the vicious circle,” while an
alarmist cable will go to London reporting
a new manifestation of Bolshevism.
WHAT DO YOU KNOW ABOUT IT?
"Oh, Teddy, was it yon who told me this ions leap year?"
In the Adelaide Police Court the other
day a milk-adulterator was fined £.llO and
ordered to publish the details of his offence
under his full name and address three
times in each of the metropolitan news-
papers. God knows what they would do to
a milk-striker in Adelaide! Possibly boil
him, S. Aus. being one of those States in
which child-welfare is taken with some
seriousness.
* « » •
“8.T.” : Tlie way the superior town man
patronised the person from the country dur-
ing Bush Week in Sydney (the whole thing
was beastly patronising) reminded me of
the time we were working a claim near
Coekrill’s. Cockrill was a man on the land,
with a large wife and two fair-to-middling
daughters, and Alec MeVickar, most suscep-
tible of our gang, went out after one of
them. Alec was son of old MeVickar, who
had a good business in the city, and was
one of three financing the party. Young
MeVickar was a chubby youth at 30, with
a fine, robust self-respect It was plainly
his opinion that there were but three men
on earth, himself, his father and one other
to be selected from the mass. That he
should be willing to throw away all the per-
fections he embodied on the just-passable
daughter of a settler was a fact that amazed
us. Then suddenly Alec ceased his atten-
tions to the Cockrill girls, and jiut in his
evenings sitting around, looking like a bear
NO VARIETY ABOUT THE
THOMPSONS.
“Ethel, the Thompsons have bought ANOTHER
baby."
“Goodness! They're always buying babies!
Why don’t they get a motor-car ?”
with a sore place. It was Blatter, the sym-
pathetic soul, got the story out of* him. “I
went over on the Sunday afternoon, you’ll
remember,” said McVickar, “and I’d fully
made up my mind Annie was the girl I pre-
ferred. I’d had some trouble settling this
point, but I was decided at last. I met
Annie at the well, and she told me. ‘lt’s
all settled, Mr. McVickar,’ she said. ‘Alice
and I drew lots for you hist night!’ ‘And
you won?’ said I eagerly. She nodded.
‘Yeh.’ said she, ‘I won. Alice has got to
marry you!’ ” I never realised till then
how these country people can pity the help-
lessness of the town person.
“G.L.8.” on prisoners of - war :
Headquarters are now inquiring into the attempts
at escape from captivity made by A.I.F. prisoners of
war; but so far no Turkish case except Captain
White’s has come under review. (It should be
explained in parentheses that attempted escapes are
part of the game. Even if you don’t succeed you
keep the enemy busy looking after you, and thus
weaken his strength in the lighting lines.) A good
number of cases, well worth consideration, threaten
not to come under official notice at all owing to
the fact that no report was ever put in about them.
On repatriation ex-prisoners were asked to give an
account of the circumstances surrounding their
capture and captivity; but this request was nearly
always coupled with a fervent “And for ’s sake
make it as short as possible” from the n.c.o. detailed
for the job, so that many reports which could have
been interesting were made bald and uninspiring.
If decorations are to be awarded in this connection
the crew of the AE2 should come in for a fair share.
Of the 30 members of its crew, six—Thompson,
Nicholls, GWynne, Cullen, Churcher and Wheat —
made game attempts at shaking off Jacko’s hospi-
tality, Wheat having two tries to his credit. On
the whole, the Aussie prisoners did not make too bad
a showing in this direction. There were 35 of us
in a camp of over 300 mixed British and French
prisoners ; and of the seven parties that set out to
freedom from the camp (Belemedik, Taurus
Mountains) five were almost completely made up of
Australians, about 15 men being concerned.
The fact that none of these attempts were success-
ful argues nothing against the enterprise or resource
of the men making them. From 40 to 50 miles of
mountainous country, infested with wild dogs, savage
villagers, unruly deserters and barbarous soldiery, had
' to be travelled before the coast near Alexandretta
and Mersine could be reached. Only two parties
got this far and only one was successful in launch-
ing the collapsible boat (made of canvas and iron
stays) which was to ferry it across the intervening
100 miles or so between the coast and the island of
Cyprus. At this stage this party consisted of one
man, J. Beatty, 14th Battalion, who set out on his
lonesome. According to his tale he was out at sea
for a day and a half before the force of the waves
drove him inshore within range of the welcoming
muzzles of the old Martinis carried by the Turkish
coast patrol.
# * * •
“S.E.N.”: Towards the end of our stay
in England British officers, and especially
those of the higher grades, became much less
“regimental” in the matter of salutes. But
there were still a few that hadn’t yet learned
their lesson. In the autumn of 1019 a fussy
little Tommy major, walking along the road
near Sutton Veny, met three of our non-
coms.. who. talking together, passed him un-
noticed. He stopped and glared after them:
then. “Corporal!” he barked. The senior
n.c.o. turned. “Why the mischief don’t you
salute an officer?” The corp. looked at him
a moment as if grieving over a spoilt child.
“Oh, don't be silly!” he said, and, rejoining
his comrades, walked on.
• * # *
“Hm ”: It was a deep-throated bellow of
“What were yon doing while the war was
on?” that attracted me, and I saw a stoutish,
hatless individual standing at the door of
an office, waving a bluish paper at a straw-
hatted youth. Obviously the stout man was
indignant; and when the young one failed
to produce the badge that the stout man
demanded to see, the stout man became also
scornful. *‘Sohe thundered. "You have
skulked at home while thousands of brave
men were dying in France! And your em-
ployers—your employers, I say ! —send you
—you ! —to serve this thing on me! They
issue their threats by the hand of a man
who failed to serve his country in the hour
of need! Bah! Tell your employers, sir.
that if they have no sense of their duty, I
have! Tell them, if they feel inclined again
to send threats about proceedings in the
Courts, to send them by a returned soldier.
A returned soldier, sir!” A gesture of dis-
gust sent a shower of bits of blue paper into
the air: and the door banged in the face of
an amazed young man in a straw hat.
• # » *
A look at Black Brother in Victoria: —
For some time past Victoria has been trying to
concentrate the few remnants of her aboriginal popu-
lation at Lake Tyers, in Gippsland, where 4000 acres
have been set aside as a reserve. The Kamabyuck
station has teen closed, and as many of the abos.
from Coranderrk (near Healesville) as could be
persuaded to make the move have been brought down.
Home of them would not stir and say they will not
leave Coranderrk unless they are forced. The abos.
at Lake Condah (Western District) are also to be
moved.
But if Lake Tyers gets the lot there will be only
about 300 or perhaps less. At present there are
about 150 at Tyers. Very few of these are pure-
bred. At Coranderrk there is but one pure black —
old man Manton, of the Swan Hill trile; and at
Tyers old Kitty, alleged to be about a century, and
a few others are the only ones with no trace what-
ever of white blood. Some of them are quite as
fair as many undoubted white people. There are
youngsters amongst them with yellow hair and
refined features. One’ woman also is very fair; she
has light hair and a fair complexion. But she is
supposed to have black blood in her, and, anyway,
she married a half-caste.
Judging by the number of children the Tyers
blacks are in no immediate danger of dying out.
But they are a poor lot of youngsters, much afflicted
with colds and such ailments. Some of the men are
fairly good specimens physically, but seem to have
a rooted prejudice against work. The present
manager reckons that he is going to make the place
THE MORE IMPORTANT ITEM.
“I 'sped it costs an awful lot to get the
bishop to marry you, mother?"
“Yes, dear, I expect so."
“I think I’LL have just a tiny little curate
and a great big cake."
self-supporting, as he has done with similar stations
in N. S. Wales, and there seems no reason why he
shouldn’t, for there is some very decent land on
the reserve, while Lake Tyers is at times one of
the best little fishing waters in Victoria. But it
will take time to educate the abos. there to
the stage of doing very much for themselves. The
State Government has given an excellent imitation
of the fairy godmother in the past, supplying them
with most things they wanted —except liquor—with-
out asking much in return. It is only decent to
smooth the path of the decaying remnants of the
people from whom the whites have taken the
country; but it is doubtful whether it has been real
kindness, at any rate to the mixed breeds, who are
greatly in the majority. The full-blooded abos. have
probably been made happy enough; a full stomach
contents them.
DUSK IN THE DOMAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Elf-light, owl-light, Lipping the weed-grown
Elfin-green sky; . L ,°' v
, 7 - Ageless, careless,
Inder the fig-tree* Lords 0 f all!
Bats flit by,
Grej' rock-monsterS,
Under the fig-trees Out of the grass
Sprawl in a ring Heaved, lie staring;
01 . .... „ • . Moths drift past
Slimdimbed courtiers, 1
Brown Elf-King. On their business —
None have the elves
Crowned with autumn's Who hold high festival
Tawny gold: B >’ themselves.
Lizard-eyed, cricket- So i saw them
thighed, Very plain,
Neither young nor old— Green-dusky Eltland
Their Domain.
Like the fig-leaves' „ .
~ , ~ So I saw them
Broad yellow wreath As I went through _
Round each forehead ; like Seven slum children from
the waves beneath, Woolloomooloo !
.v.s.w.
DOROTHEA MARCELLAH.


THE
Union Trustee Company
of Australia Limited
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees,
etc.
New South Wales: Victoria : Queensland
The only Trustee Company having
branches in more than one Btate.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Hon. H. Y. Era rid on,
M.L.C., F. B. S Falkiner, M.H.R., Janies
Kidd, W. H. Maekay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan
Sinclair.
V. G. WATSON, JOHN MAIR,
Assistant Manager. Manager.
CAIrL OR SEND FOR COMPANY’S BOOKLET.
GP-
Acouslicon
deaf?
You can HEAR, and
we prove it by posting
you an easy-to-wear
ON 10 DAYS’
FREE TRIAL.
No deposit, obligation, or expense. Over
330.000 delighted users, including the Prime
Minister, Mr. Huehes. who has been using
the “Acousticon” for more than five years!
Lamsonl^viceCo.
102 Daking House. SYDNEY
Older-fleet, Col ins St.,MELB.
N.Z.: John Procter, 200' lliyh St., Christc’h.
1 V.A.: 11. Little & Co., Sol Hoy Street, Perth .
finest
Tobacco
obtainable is
ci)GEWOI^fy
EXTRA HIGH GRADE*
HEADYRUBBED
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfHNQ ROOF GARDEN.
Management E. T. CHKESEMAN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Notes from a presbytery : —•.
Archbishop Kelly, of Sydney, who left last week
to pay his respects to the Pope, is a prelate of
the mediaeval period. He spends hours daily and
nightly in prayer and meditation. He is a Latinist.
He think's in dead languages, with the result that
his spoken word, as reported in the press, is often
as bewildering as a hurried translation. Moran
had a keen Sense of humor: Kelly has none. Moran
liked a fight: Kelly never embarks on one without
bitter questioning. Moran was no more Scholarly,
but he had the “grand . manner,” socially, which
Kelly lacks. Moran fulfilled the Scriptural injunction
about loving his enemies: he liked several of them
better than he did many of his friends in the Faith.
Kelly declines to admit the possession of any
enemies. Allowing for racial and educational differ-
ences, Moran was Manning and Kelly is Newman.
The analogy is wonderfully close.
Laird Smith, one of the new Federal
honorary Ministers, can blame the debating
society attached to Chalmers Presbyterian
Church, Hobart. It was there that young
Smith, then an electrician in the Tas.' rail-
ways, learnt to throw Aristotle at the heads
of his opponents. By the time Labor wanted
someone to win Denison 10 years ago he
was fit for the job.
RE V . DONALD BAKER, of Tasmania, the
new Bishop of Bendigo—the third bishop
the Speck has supplied in a year.
“Greentape” : When I saw McPherson,
Treasurer of Victoria, going around Mel-
bourne the other day in a State car inter-
viewing barrow-men about the possibility of
extending their fruit-sales, I remembered a
tour through the suburbs made by Premier
Bent 14 years ago. Bent had the
Licensing Bill on the stocks, and,
wishing to see for himself the accom-
modation provided for drinkers, board-
ers and lodgers, hired a waggonette
(there was no State motor then), and put
in four or five hours at it. He took an officer
and three raypoorters with him. Bent would
descend from the cab, enter the pub,
announce himself, have a look around, ask
questions and be off in a few minutes. Only
about two of the quietest were patronised
for refreshers. Hospitality was declined.
McPherson had but a chauffeur with him;
he isn’t in it with Bent when it comes to
publicity.
Thus a man who has been up North: —
You find them everywhere. Not a steamer that
goes north but takes one or two of them. (Certainly,
the Australian steamers have been stopped ; but the
foreigners go merrily on.) The Malay States have
hundreds of Australians by this time, and there are
dozens in Siam, Borneo, Sumatra, the Philippines,
China and Burma. There used to be a few in Siberia,
but Bolsheviks have thrust most of them out. One
Maorilander named Nelson ran a show away up
in the Lena country, out of which he took over two
tons of gold. Then things warmed up. A band of
practising Bolsheviks waylaid him and three others
on the road to the mine, shot the others dead and
did their best to get him, but missed him. He
hung on even after that, but when his miners were
driven away, the gold commandeered and so on, he
faded out and decided to try Siam. As soon as
things get a bit straight in Eastern Siberia he is,
however, going back.
According to the evidence given before the
Basic Wage Commission in Melbourne,
modern garments are
not so serviceable as
those made in pre-
war times. T here
must be some truth in
this because T. E.
Fowling, of Framling-
ham (Vie.), while
celebrating his golden
wedding on .Tan. 1!)
wore the waistcoat
that he had worn on
his wedding-day. Pre-
serving waistcoats is
a hobby of the family ;
iit the celebrations five
sons also wore the
waistcoats which
adorned their proud
chests on their wed-
ding-days.
COL. S. P. WEIR,
Public Service
Commissioner of S.
Aus., in his war
paint.
E. .T. Holloway, who succeeds Charles
Gray as secretary of Melbourne Trades Hall
Council, is one of the aces of the pack
and a force in holding the balance between
moderates and extremists. He has held
almost every office attainable in Vic.
unionism and in Australian Labor politics,
and has shown as clear a vision as any of
them.
Mrs. Shad forth, whose husband runs the
Elsey and Hodgson Downs stations (N.T.),
rode across from Queensland to the Elsey
a while ago—the first white woman to make
that trip. When she strum. Boorooloola, on
the McArthur River, the only township to be
passed on the Territory side of the border,
she went to Tom Lynott’s pub for a feed.
As none of the local citizens turned up
she asked if there were no boarders. “It’s
all right, they’ll be here presently, mum,”
was what she got in reply. “They have
gone to put on their shirts and boots. You’re
the first white woman seen in Boorooloola
for a year or two, and they want to look
the thing.” When the war began Booroo-
loola did have a white woman- —Mrs.
Kelly, whose husband was police trooper
there. But he enlisted, and his wife went
to Darwin to live.
The send-off of an old colleague:—
Davey Hall, the latest N. S. Wales Agent-General,
despite popular opinion really has a certain amount
of monkey smartness. He attached himself to
Holman much as Juno did to Napoleon while that
mighty warrior was engaged in his maiden struggle
as an unknown lieutenant at Toulon ; and Juno died a
duke as a reward for his good judgment. Twenty-
two years ago Have was a meek little person in the
gallery when Holman was making his maiden speech.
The Premier’s present disposition was already heralded,
and his correspondence was three months in airears.
Dave was a clerk in a big wool store, and it being
(he off season had some slack time on his hands.
Going to Holman he offered to do his correspondence.
Holman jumped at it, and thus commenced an associ-
ation that has brought Hall many rewards. It was
Holman who in 1911 brought Hall from a back seat
in Federal politics to a seat in the State Cabinet,
through the Upper House. Labor, always suspicious
of Davey, was inclined to kick; but Holman, then
Attorney-General, protested that it. was useless for
him to attempt anything without a legal colleague.
The following general election (1913) Hall resigned
from the Council and ran for Enmore, where he
would have been dead meat only Holman in between
the first and second ballots secured the aid of the
liquor interests for his teetotal pal by telling them
that Dave didn’t count. And the water-waggoners,
not knowing that they had been right-crossed,
worked nearly as hard as the publicans to land him !
During the last three years Laborites, with fine
prescience, suspected him of being about to be
pitch-forked into every job that offered or was
manufactured. Now with the Agent-General plum
in his possession, they hope they’ve heard the last
of him.
George Rolfe, the hard-nut Melbourne
merchant, who died lately worth £246,000,
left 5 per cent, on every year’s salary to each
employee who had been with him three years
or over.
McDougall, returned Billjim, who held a
temporary job in Melbourne as grievance-
redresser for fellow-Di*"rers who have become
settlers, struck two prizes in one week. He
was made an associate member of the Closer
Settlement Board at £6OO a year and won
£l5OO, a half-share in a Tatt.’s ticket. It
was a low-paid departmental liftman who
induced nim to shell out the 3s. towards the
lucky scrap of paper.
Ambrose Patterson, the Victorian painter
whose pictures ornament several Australian
public galleries and who when last heard
from was being divorced by his little wife
in Honolulu, has, after a run of putrid luck,
landed on bis feet in America, where he has
been appointed assistant Professor of Fine
Arts at Washington University, an institu-
tion with 5000 students. In a recent big
exhibition Patterson scored honorable men-
tion for his oils and an easy first for water-
colors.
From the Federal lobbies: —
Arthur Rodgers was strongly fancied for Hugheds
Cabinet as assistant Repatriation Minister, but he
killed his chances by showing energy unsuitable for
the job. Always a keen man for the Digger, Rodgers
started to be unpopular with the Cabinet as soon
as he began helping warriors in their struggles with
the Repat. He pushed many grievances under the
Ministerial nose, and actually deprived the staff of
its sleep. One can therefore imagine the terror
of the placid Milieu when Rodgers was suggested
to him as an aide. Probably it took a bagful of
burnt feathers to bring him to.
J. 11. Howe, just dead in Adelaide, is re-
sponsible for the Federal Arbitration Court.
In the Constitution drafted by Barton,
O’Connor and Downer, it , was not proposed
to take power to deal with industrial dis-
putes. But it happened that Howe was a
State member for the district which includes
Port Pirie, where the Broken Hill smelting
and shipping is done; and Port Pirie was
always in peril of being thrown out of a job
because of a row over the border at Broken
Hill. Also as director of a Broken Hill
mine he was similarly in danger of being
unable to get his co.’s ore smelted or handled
because of a trouble away from the mine
and in another State. Finding himself —
rather to his surprise—in the Federal Con-
vention he concentrated on Federal Arbitra-
tion, along with old-age and invalid pensions,
and gained his points.
From beneath the Bar table :
Justice McCardie, whose interpretations of the
Divorce Law have been startling the Empire, is a
strange figure. A sort of numan law-book. Small,
ill-dressed, bald and with an indefinable look of
•dustiness, you might take him to be his own clerk’s
offsider as he hurries from his chambers in the
Middle Temple to the Hall. As a junior he had the
biggest practice of modern times. His earnings
were legendary, like those of Pope, the Parlia-
mentary “silk,” who got ,£lO,OOO as a retainer in
one case. Amongst his regular solicitor-clients was
George Lewis, and so he came to be in every causa
celebre, and it is not too much to say that he was
a specialist in everything—on the Common Law
side. He has been on the Bench only four years, and
lie went there after sporting silk for the shortest
time on record.
John Edward Birt managed to survive the
Sydney Eastern Suburbs Labor-selection
ballot, and will take the field with the stand-
ing that a few months’ membership of the
Leg. Assemble gives him. He would have
been in Parliament 15 years ago had it not
been for the low intrigue of pre-eledtion bal-
lots—an intrigue that none the less always
found him loyal and magnanimous enough
to come out and speak for his less able vic-
tors. Like many another, Birt would rather
an open run before sixty thousand electors
than an appeal to 60 “unionists” run in the
A.L.I*. for selection purposes under rule 6.
“Union Poet”: The Age, cursing the
late arrival of oversea mails, flings this gibe
at Webster, Australia’s Hot-water Bard :
Some people were sanguine enough to imagine-
that when the Post Office ceased to be controlled by
a “poet” it would commence to mend its ways.
But why should the whole Poets’ Union
suffer because a metrical kettle-mender or
bath-heater ballad-monger failed to do any-
thing with the Post Office except save money
in it? There are degrees in poets. Didn't the
eminent Griffith, C. J., translate Dante; as
a sort of literary relaxation after his labors
in the High Court? The Age never ques-
tioned liis law because he loved the melodies
of words.
Homeward bound, Corporal L. E. de Mole,
the young S’Australian inventor of the
military tank, of whom the British Royal
Commission on awards to inventors said:
“We" consider that he is entitled to the
greatest credit for having made and reduced
to practical shape as far back as 1912 a very
brilliant invention which anticipated and in
some respects surpassed that put into use in
1916. It was the claimant’s misfortune and
not his fault that his invention was in
advance of his time, and failed to be
appreciated, and was put aside because the
occasion for its use had not then arisen.”
“F.H.J.” : Recently I passed a house in
the Western Dis-
trict o f Victoria
bedecked with flags.
Mrs.S m i t h
(widow) had fre-
quent arguments
with her neighbor,
ill r. Bro w n
(widower).
In one
instance
he had
success-
fully sued
her for
a damaged
fence. No one sus-
pected that they
were in love with
one another. The
neighborhood w a s
only mildly sur-
prised wh e n the
widow borrowed
the Welcome Home
Committee’s stock
of flags and deco-
rated her house in
honor of her neigh-
bor’s death.
A. B. SHAND,
K.C., of Sydncy.
E. I’. Dowley, Westralia’s best-known
warden after Finnerty, retires next month
with 33 years’ service to his credit. The
Tipperary boy with a Trinity College
education arrived in ‘B5, and his first job
was Resident Engineer at Kimberley for the
Works Department. Later he became
Resident Magistrate at Kimberley, and then
had the same job at Hall’s Creek for six
years. After that he was Warden on
Murchison and Coolgardie, and Magistrate at
Kalgoorlie; and in 1908 they gave him a
spell as S.M. at Fremantle.
There’s evidence of the deadly climate of
the Far North in the fact that of the “old
hands” of Darwin still left at least two came
overland from Adelaide by bullock-waggon
when the settlement was first established.
“Haka” : May I bring in Maoriland’s
champion fire-fighting family? At the
annual meeting of the Gore Brigade Fred
Wallis, sen., was appointed captain for the
83rd year in succession. Fred Wallis, jun.,
was elected first lieutenant and Alex. Wallis
second lieutenant. Other appointments
were: Foreman, A. Wallis, sen.; motormen,
C. Wallis, D. Wallis and H. Wallis. Fire-
man Wallis was welcomed back from the
war, and regret was expressed at the de-
parture of E. E. Wallis. The latter
managed to squeeze in 30 years’ service be-
fore leaving the district, and Andrew Martin
was elected secretary and treasurer for the
31st time in succession. I wouldn’t have
mentioned Andrew only he married a Miss
Wallis.
The first Usher of the Black Rod in Vic-
toria, Colonel H. 11. Farquharson, obtained
the job through the influence of Major-
General Edward Macarthur, Acting-
Governor after the death of Sir Charles
Hotham. While Farquharson was Barrack-
Master at Portobello, Dublin Bay, his wife
horsewhipped an officer in Phoenix Park, and
in the fuss the Colonel resigned. He came
to Victoria in the first ’fifties, and tried the
goldfields, but was not a success as a digger.
Returning to Melbourne he took a job as
Customs boatman. The officer in charge of
the boat —still living and steadily climbing
to his 85th year—endeavored to make things
easy for the old soldier; but Farquharson
spurned all favors. Macarthur, who was a
son of John, of Camden Park, had a military
appointment in Ireland and knew of the
horsewhipping ■ episode, and when the time
came got the ex-colonel the billet of Usher;
and a courtly Usher he made.
As a Vic. County Court and Insolvency
judge Moule has worked very quietly; but
he made the public sit up and take notice
of him last week. When presiding in the
Criminal Court he caused the jury to retire
and choose its foreman instead of doing the
thing hurriedly in the box. where the
“selection” i,s a farce; and it isn’t likely to
be much less of a farce if done in any other
place. Moule w r as once in politics. He
defeated Bent at Brighton in 1594 just after
Thomas had completed a term as Speaker.
Six years later Bent routed Moule. Bent
was as “magnanimous” to Moule as he was
to Higinbotham, another political opponent
at Brighton. Both were placed on the Bench
by Governments of which Tommy was a
member.
DISGRACED!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Closer examination of the lists of war-criminals
presented to Germany shows that France and Belgium
demand every western military commander except
Von Herringen.”— Cable.
Herr General von Herringen was widely known in
France:
A wowser he, from AVowsersehloss. He did not sing
or dance
In emulation of his Prince, or sedulously shoot
The children of his enemies. He could not even loot.
lie simply fought, as best he could, on regulation
lines,
Though never with the least success; and from the
Apennines
To Nieuport, on the Belgian coast, the tidings spread
in time
That he was quite the mildest Boclie of any age
or. clime.
Tim French and British treated him as harshly as
could be:
They harassed him and his with gas. bombs, shrapnel
and lI.E.
He never won a battle: every dashed thing went
amiss,
Yet none of his misfortunes were so terrible as this.
The action of the French betrays the damning truth
to all.
He played the game! He never caused one blame-
. less (lead to fall !
And so lie will be cursed at home with candle, bell
and book.
What German wants a man who is not “wanted” as
a crook ?
N.S.W.
J. B. D.


vm.
mmm
ml W*® ii
; ■■
■
mm
m
i
m
Hi
US
#
v?i
;?3S-' • • ’• >;
v
' H
*
v
v:
H
: h$
8 B?
V,
7
C
m
l-ifr r>:
5S
rninmiw
ft , - ■
Lnw
O
■
* ■
■
RMi
o
as
m
BBi
O-
Inni
{ rP
a;
<S7>
ru
•=0
'■•■■
<&D
m
■ /
WEB
ZZO
f.
fk
m
m mm
■■■
imm
M
SS$
:
* 1
- .
*
wm
■ - 1
MJ
■
• x , - - J
f ' ■i .-
■ : ■ '■• ■,•.■;■•■■■ -.;■ -v; •- .■ '
... _ ... •_■ _ ■ . ... '


Sunshine Engines
Every year an
ADDITIONAL 500
Australian farmers
get Sunshine Engines
to cut chaff, pump
water, saw wood, etc.
n h.p.
3 H.P.
7 H.P.
lO H.P.
Least first cost.
Lowest fuel consumption.
Easiest Terms.
m
47.
I
1
m
53
Made in Australia by
H. V. McKAY
Sunshine
Harvester Works,
(Sunshine.
Write to any of the following addresses for Catalogues of Engines and Farm Implements, sent post free
H. V. McKAY
Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
.Corner Collins & Spencer Streets, Melbourne.
56 North Terrace, Adelaide.
36 Pier Street, Perth.
Corner York & St. John Streets, Launceston, Tas.
The Bird”: According to London Star,
‘the Prince of Wales is a young man who
knows how to triumph over his natural dis-
abilities and disadvantages.” But wiiat a
howl there would be if an Australian jour-
nal dared to suggest that the heir to the
Throne was afflicted with natural disabili-
ties and disadvantages!
Bloomfield Rees, who threw up his seat
in the Vic. House of Landlords to have a
try for the Senate, and missed by 300,000
votes or thereabouts, may be permitted to
retain the “Hon.” because he had sat on the
plush benches for 10 years or more. But,
nominally, George V., being the fount from
whom all homorables flow, lias to approve
of it first.
For years there was a queer memento of
Tom Bent in a South Melbourne pub which
lie frequented in the days of his eminence.
It was an old cottage piano, an instrument
long out of action, its keys battered and reft
of their ivory. “He was so fat.” the land-
lady used to explain as she showed the
trophy, “that when he lolled back in his big
chair there he had to have somewhere to
put his feet!” So the poor piano got them
—in the teeth.
“Bungaree”: Recent reference to the
English sale of wool belonging to the
Samuel Wilson estate at 10s. 3d. —about
four times the appraised price—recalls an
incident in Wilson’s life. At Scott’s, where
he was dining with a number of squatters,
the conversation naturally turned upon the
price of wool and the likelihood of a rise.
Wilson prophesied a price, and said that
if his big lot realised more than that he
would give the rest to Melbourne Uni. It
did, and the Wilson Hall is the result.
Fred Johns, in his “Australia’s Prominent
People,” published in London in 1914, sup-
plied portraits of 13 “eminent Australians”
—Edmund Barton, Joseph Cook, W. P. Cul-
len, Alfred Deakin, Andrew Fisher, John
Forrest, Samuel Griffith, Thomas Mac-
Kenzie, John Madden, Arthur Morgan,
Munro Ferguson, George Reid and Samuel
Way. In the five years which have elapsed
no less than seven have gone west, Cook,
Cullen, Fisher, Griffith, MacKenzie and
Munro Ferguson (who is Scotch, not Aus-
tralian) being left.
Supt. Alfred
Edward, who has
controlled Sydney
traffic for so many
years that the first
motorist who got
into trouble had to
come on to the mat
before him, is just
retiring from the
service; and no-
body with unpleas-
ant things to do
ever did the job
so very thoroughly
and kept morel
friends. He goes
to Europe for a
long-promised holi-
day, with his wife
and the singing
voice that she has
used for a hun-
dred charities and
a thousand social
entertainments.
ALFRED
EDWARD ,
Superintendent of
Traffic in Sydney.
Charles Gray, who has resigned his job as
sec. of Melbourne Trades Ilall Council to
serve on the Vic. Fair Prices Commission,
probably feels that he is well out of his
old Labor billet. It was mostly sour and
thankless, full of burrs and prickles and
with small compensation in the way or either
salary or prestige. _ Treasurer McPherson,
on behalf of the Vic. Ministry, testimonial-
ised Gray as “a fair-minded and upright
man,” and people who know him will con-
cur. Many years ago lie- entered life by a
very humble avenue. lie did his bit as a
working member of the Licensed Collectors’
Union. Later on he stood for Parliament,
in hopeless ' opposition to the late John
Murray, at Warrnambool; but his subse-
quent efforts were confined to municipal
politics at Prabran.
A fine illuminated address has remained
up presen fed in Sydney for quite a long time.
In 391 b 11. D. Meagher was Mayor of. the
city, and the Hibernian Society decided to
place a garland at his feet. An artist was
engaged, and the panegyric was written by
a brilliant little Irish cleric, since dead, in
which Meagher’s ancestry and his services
to Australian Hibernianism were beautifully
blended. Then the hero saw the light on
the conscription matter, which was not
exactly the same jack-o’-th’-lantern for which
the bhoys were looking, and the presentation
was postponed. Subsequently they discussed
the matter. “’Arrah,” says one, “let us
give it t’ him. it’s for past services.” An-
other said, “Shure, an’ would ye be after
handin’ it t’ him like a summons?” “Thrue
for y’,” said a third, “an’ if y’ had a meetin’
ye’d insult him like the very divil.” So
there it rests.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: When a Hie-
land ghillie was told that the Princess Royal,
daughter of King Ned, had married the Duke
of Fife, he replied that she Had got into
a_ good family. The same may be said of
Sir William Allardyce, the new Governor
of Tasmania, who married one of the Moles-
worth Greenes. William Pomeroy Greene,
of County Louth, Ireland, one time in the
Navy, resolved in the first ’forties to emi-
grate to Port Phillip. He brought with him,
in addition to his large family, a house, with
man servants and maid servants, horses and
carriages, farm tools and implements—nearly
everything which he could have needed had
he free-selected an uninhabited island. He
settled at Woodlands, 13 mile’s from Mel-
bourne ; but the climate didn’t suit him, and
he died in 1846, aged 49. He left six sons
and one daughter. The latter became the
wife of Chief Justice Stawell; among the
sons were Molesworth Richard, of Grey-
ancl George Henry, of landra
(N.S.W.).
“L.”: Jock Garden, secretary of Sydney
Labor Council, and the man who first put
the 0.8. U. scheme before that body, first
bobbed up about 18 years ago as secretary
of the Sailmakers’ Union, and is still its
president. He has also toiled for the Bap-
tists in Vic. and N. S. Wales. In 1910 he
tried for the Raleigh seat in N.S.W. As-
sembly, but lost to Briner. Then he was
employed by the Defence Department.
While there his annual holidays fell due
during the two conscription campaigns, and
he lifted a rather strained voice for the
antis. At last State election he stood for
Parramatta, but went down to Bruntnell,
itx.L.A., and lost his Defence job. Soon
after that he was appointed assistant sec.
to the Labor Council, where he represented
the Sailmakers and also the Clerks. On
retirement of Kavanagh he slipped into
the secretary’s chair, and two years ago
Y;l s 0.8. U. propaganda sec. by the
All Union Congress in Svdney. He also
edits that body’s journal, which mostly
thinks of itself as the A.Vv.U.’s nightmare.
“Lou”: Little Bob Ross, who finds the
Socialist (now Communist) party in Mel-
bourne too revolutionary for him. has worn
out many nibs for the cause. Years ago he
was a sporting writer for a Bananaland
paper, and was a frequent contributor to
4 m. W orker up there. Later on he was
editor first of Barrier Dairy Truth and
then of M.L. Worker, and he has been for
about live years secretary of tlie Melbourne
group, and manager of its weekly, tlie
Socialist. In between times he started
Ross’s Magazine (still going strong), and
did a book on the Eureka Stockade; he
also lectures and debates. The party was
the result of Tom Mann’s early efforts. When
Ross took the reins its placard hung out
over a furniture shop in Elizabeth-street;
but soon after he put on Adela Pankhurst
as a paid organiser the boom began. The
Socialists now occupy two halls in Mel-
bourne on Sunday nights, have a brass band,
an orchestra and a co-operative grocery, and
carry on a whole lot of other activities;
number among their members a sprinkling
of politicians, maintain a paid sec. and as-
sistant secretary, and kept Scott Rennet
lecturing during the war on a salary. No
wonder Robert Samuel Ross leaves with a
fist-full of regrets.
Alfred Galbraith, secretary to the
Vic. Forestry Commission, was previously
senior clerk in the office of the Country
Roads Board. He started there in 1914, a
few months before the Kaiser took the wrong
turning. Still earlier he was a municipal
clerk with a garland of accountancy-certi-
ficates. lie acquired a captaincy with the
Diggers in France.
Grayndler, re-elected general secretary of
the A.W.U., had to go a long way to get
there. He was successively' tarboy, shed
hand and shearer; then he became a volun-
tary organiser, but didn’t take an official
position for another ten years. In 1900 he
was elected sec. of the resurrected Vic.-
Riverina branch, and held it till bad health
kept him quiet. Next he showed up in
some arbitration business, and, later, on
the death of Donald Macdonell, he was
urged to become general sec. He refused,
but Tom White’s failing health brought the
executive to his door again, and he took
on the job for the remainder of that term,
and was re-elected. In 1906 he stood for
Grampians (Vic.) against Hans Irvine, and
with three weeks to campaign in and a
push-bike to do it on, he gave Irvine the
fright of his political life. But he is not
likely to be a political aspirant again.
“0.L.” : Martin Hannah is the one Labor
member in the Vic.‘Assembly who has under-
taken a national mission apart from his Par-
liamentary job. He is spending the present
Parliamentary vacation in the Upper Nowa
Nowa country, many tangled miles up in the
ranges above Bairnsdale. Out of his spoil
from these vast and valuable forests Han-
nah will presently make a neat line of walk-
ing-sticks, for presentation to Governors.
Birdwoods and the like, in the hope that
some advertisement for this country’s timber
resources may be provided in return. Mean-
time the merchants who obligingly supply
Melbourne with sawn timber from their
heavily-stocked yards continue to exact from
the public a rate nearly double that of pre-
war times, it being impossible for them to
buy supplies from bush mills, free on rails,
at anything less than half the retail rate,
u hat the bush miller has to say on this sub-
ject is only, muttered under breath, because
if be said it out loud the non-existent
timber combine might hear it and honorably
understand him out of business.
THE HAPLESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
And these that have no joy God pity them,
And send them rest from their long grief, and ease
I’ rom that dark quest of theirs; for none who sees
Into another’s heart dare all condemn
the weak and weary, or that sad soul blame
Who shares with his humanity his shame.
1' or these have followed strange gods to no end,
And fitful gleams unto no goal, and heard '
the singing wings of Dawn’s immortal bird
Heralding Hope; and withal found no friend
in day or darkness, fenced implacably
About with pride of bitter misery.
1 liese saw the good that was not for them pass,
The evil stoop on wings of drifted wrack;
i-'aw Vice in state, with shrunken sinews slack,
And Wrong with earthen feet and front of brass
throned Godwise in the midst of soulless men
Who rob and slay by craft of tongue and pen.
Yea, these have burned with grief, beholding bliss;
I* amished for bread, seeing men gorged with gold;
Starved for that love which is not bought and sold,
Seeing the lips of merry lovers kiss;
And haply eyes that never learned to grieve
Watch Love’s great star flame out across the eve.
God pity these for their deep sorrow’s sake,
And send them largesse of one good day’s smiles,
One well-palm, set amid the weary miles,
Where, if but once, they may give pause, to slake
Fierce desert drouth, and, haply finding, press
At heart the fine faint flower of Happiness.
BANANALAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


IN
, 1
H
*
m
m
St
o
K>
o
r^
1 1
o
pO(r3(r£l>o
a JK
c^©
o
H>
O
e
&
oocOOB
0
0000000000
o
OOOQQ6
GG
The steel made from Australian
ores at the Newcastle Steel
Works is equal to the finest
made in any part of the world.
Above illustration shows, in cross section, some of the products made at Newcastle.


LICK
ALL ANIMALS
irx
Ear
Yf
i
w.
wnvlv t
%
-*s
"4
hf
aFStfeS*
<W*
1
hH
3?“’’
life?
■-;
'S'!
m
v
*•<
K
>g
v\
>m
mm
m
?m
%
JVS
?s
Wk
"'H'llll:
C:
rf
01"'
-5£P-*t
«o-
O'
rT
ffl
fvS^f
M:
///'
HU
T ESLIE Salt Licks are as good for your sheep as they are for your
L- horses and Cl ws. 1 hey induce in them the same sound digestion,
splendid condition and abounding health—the same freedom from
ailments and diseases. They prevent duke and black disease.
“Leslie” Salt Licks are pure sterilised sea salt with an admixture of valuable
medicinal ingredients—the whole compressed into handy five-pound
blocks, fi' ted with a loop for hanging to posts, trees, mangers or fences.
They lick to the last. Not an ounce is wasted.
“IHANG THEM BY THE LOOP.”
“Leslie” Salt Licks—the Product of Sea and Sunshine.
MADR IN AUSTRALIA.
Wholesale Distributors:
HOLDSWORTH MACPHERSON & Co., 252 George Street. BUZACOTT & Co. Ltd 7-11 Market <5, r „ 8( .
WATSON, NOBI.E 4 Co. Ltd,, 2^ 2 59 Sussex N.S.W. PRODUCE Co ,» s!££ W ‘
oHELLEY, 185 Clarence Street.
Retail:
NOCK & KIRBY Ltd , 188 George Street.
Demobilising Black Beauty.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JT was not until February, 1919, that
the business of demobbing the horses
and mules of the Australian Army
Corps began. Our strength in animals was
then well over 10,000 —very few of them
Australian; the majority American.
All animals were classiiied and marked
accordingly. A, B and C referred to the
age of a horse—under six, or under or over
nine. The letters X, Y and Z were also
used for a general summing-up. The best,
or X class, were reserved for the army of
occupation, Y for sale in England, Z for"dis-
posal on the spot. All mules were placed in
the lowest category, as it was found that the
English did not take kindly to them. All the
animals were “inoculated” under the eyes
as a test for glanders, and that was rather
an interesting operation when nervous ani-
mals had to be treated.
->iOst of the Australian divisions were in
villages around Charleroi and on the Meuse,
so their Z-class animals were auctioned in
Belgium, and the balance sent down to the
base depots by train to be drafted to their
iinal destinations. Florennes was the scene of
numerous sales. The town square was trans-
formed into a horse bazaar, and thither Bel-
gians flocked, resplendent in big overcoats,
brass spurs, gaudy leggings, and carrying
whips such as lion-tamers use. The auction-
eer was a local civilian, who lavished more
praise on our mules in ten minutes than I
had heard before in two years, and got a
commission that would stagger any Austra-
lian salesman. He knocked down the mules
at an average of £32 and the worst of our
horses at £3B, and a mare would always
bring much more than a horse.
There were breaks in the monotony. A
one-eyed bay mare, known as Gunner, was
offered, and boomed as being a good hack
and wonderful in harness. She was. A
prospective buyer who wanted to try her
harnessed her in his buggy and started off
to drive round the town. After a few
minutes the crowd hurriedly parted to make
way for Gunner breaking all records, with
an empty buggy flying after her. Yet even
then she fetched a good figure. So long as a
horse was fat and did not bite or kick when
approached the price was surd to hover in
the vicinity of 1500-2000 francs. The cham-
pion “jib” of the unit fetched 1600 because
he did not have any chance to display his
gifts. A mad-headed bay pony, holding as
many devils as she had room for, caught
the eye of a prosperous-looking farmer, who
wanted her for liis little boy. He got her
—and we reckon he’ll want a new little boy
every six months.
With some of the Artillery Brigades the
sale was held in the Brigade’s billeting
area, and then the pushing Diggers made a
few francs. They picked out their mark,
and No. 1 in his best French would suggest
that for “vank ronks” he would put the mark
on to something good. No. 2 got the French-
man five minutes later and asked him his
fancy. The unsuspecting Frenchie would
show it, and the Digger burst into laughter.
"No bon, kick comme ca,” and the Digger
would high kick. “Tees bon donk ici, dix
francs,” and the Frenchman would part with
a further 10 francs for another stable tip.
The animals were all sold without harness
or headstalls of any description, and the
sight of a Belgique leading off a riotous
mule without a rope touched the drivers’
hearts. So for 20 francs they sold their
headstalls and chains, and the proud buyer
led his mount away, only to be stopped
at the gates by the guard, who relieved him
of his harness.
The French and Belgian buyers were all
well stocked with rolls of franc notes, and
would think nothing of paying 2500 francs
® spot. But I’ve seen one who paid
-800 argue for 10 minutes because the auc-
tioneer s clerk gave him a torn five-franc
note.
The sales were continued at intervals
during the month, and simultaneously our
mules began to appear harnessed with cows,
bullocks and horses, to ploughs and three-
wheeled farm carts driven by old men smok-
ing big pipes filled with rhubarb and cab-
bage-leaf tobacco, whose commands never
exceeded the monotonous “IIoo! IIoo!”
The remaining horses were sent away to
Be Havre by train, the X class to join the
permanent forces, the Y’s to be later .sent
to England for sale. I accompanied one of
the latter drafts of about 350, with a driver
to each four horses. The Australian Corps
Animal Concentration Park was at Mar-
cienne, where Napoleon had an army prior
to the Quatre Bras hop-over in 1815. The
horses were accommodated in a large fac-
tory, . from which Fritz had taken the
machinery, the troops securing billets with
the townspeople. We left Charleroi in a
train which was not the beau-ideal of com-
fort. “Clievaux 8, Hommes 40,” is a sign
well known to everyone who was in France
or Belgium. Eight horses were allotted to
each truck, four being tied at each end and
facing, the centre, where the two accompany-
ing drivers made their quarters. The travel-
ling had no chance of becoming monotonous,
although it lasted two days. The horses
had. to be fed and watered when the oppor-
tunity presented itself, and the pastime of
cooking on a Tommy cooker in a crowded
truck running on angular wheels stirred us
to our souls. Most of the country through
which we passed was full of interest. We
saw. again numerous old camping sites,
familiar places whose names are immortal.
The town of Albert, now irretrievably ruined,
will always be associated with the Diggers’
southward migration in March, 1918, and
with the fighting in 1916. Then came
Ileilly, Corbie, the old rest camps of Camon,
Blangy-Tronville, Lamotte, Glissy and. later
on, best known of all, Amiens.
We ran into Havre in the evening—a
cold, wet, cheerless evening at that —and
painted gloomy pictures of riding bareback
to the depot a few miles out. So Ave got a
cheerful surprise when Tommy troops
appeared on the platform with bridles and
took o\ T er from us. And I think we all felt
as one sentimental Jehu did who remarked
to his four-legged friend: “Well, Cynthia,
it near breaks my heart to lose you. but.
by , it would be the death of me if I
had to keep you any longer!”
S. N O.


Qa
“ino
WIRE WOUND STEAM HOSE
EFFECT OF WIRE WINDING UNDER PRESSURE
A PLY STEAM HOSE
COVE R
Z. TUBE
Goodyear “Monterey” Steam Hose
Is NOT Wire Bound
WIRE binding is a positive detriment
to Steam Hose. The illustra-
tion is a graphic demonstration
when read with the following explanation
of the simple facts. When Steam Hose is
in use the pressure naturally causes
expansion, and the heat subjects the
rubber to a process of curing or vulcan-
isation the constant repetition of which
tends to lessen the flexibility of the tube.
Imagine then what happens with wire-
bound Steam Hose —how the alternate
heating and cooling and consequent
pressure and deflation expands and con-
tracts the hose itself while the wire
binding remains rigid. As a result, the
inner tube very soon commences to
separate from the supporting fabric plies.
Follows a blister which sooner or later
fills up and interrupts the volume and
force of steam. And in such a case an
actual rupture of the inner tube is the
natural consequence, this in turn resulting
in blow-outs and destruction.
Goodyear “Monterey” Steam Hose is
NOT wire bound, but has a tough outer
cover which is specially compounded to
resist abrasion in the roughest service.
The duck used is balanced as to reduce
expansion under pressure to a minimum,
and because of the specially compounded
steam-resisting rubber both in the tube
and in the carcass Goodyear “Monterey”
Steam Hose does not show sign of perish
during its long lifetime of service.
There are other features of betterment in
Goodyear “Monterey” Steam Hose which
you should know of, features which
minimise risk of accident, add to its
usefulness and give longer service. Write
to any one of our branches as listed below
and ask to be shown how to cut down
your costs on Steam Hose. Your inquiry
will be met promptly and without obliga-
tion of any kind.
Stocks of Goodyear Mechanical Rubber Goods are now carried throughout Australia by
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIM
ADELAIDE, MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, BRISBANE,
TED
PERTH.
■
nm ■
v. a l v e m


A. Saunders’ Lady’s Black Wristlet Watch, 20/-
25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-. Silver, £2, £2/10/-!
Gold, £3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5, £6.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, daintily engraved,
20/-.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Cricket Medal, 32/6.
15ct. Gold, £3.
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold
Links, 25/-; 15ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Silver Wristlet,
£2/10/-. Extra Jewelled, £3, £3/10/-,
Solid Gold, £5, £5/10/-, £6/10/-.
A. Saunders’ Double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold,£7/10/-.
A. Saunders’ Pearl-set
Necklet, £3/10/-.
A. Saunders’ Single-
diamond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £5/10/-.
A. Saunders’
Diamond Cross-
over Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £3/15/-.
A. Saunders’ Five-
diamond Boat-shape
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£7/10/-. Smaller
Diamonds, £5.
A. Saunders’
Diamond Cluster
Ring, 18et. Gold,
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Nellie Stewart Secret Snap and
Joint Bracelet, £2/10/-. Lighter, £2, 30/-. Heavier,
£3, £3/10/-. 15ct. Gold, £3/10/-, £4/10/-,
£5, £5/10/-. Lighter, £3.
A. Saunders’ Double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15et, Gold, £5.
' A. Saunders’
Diamond and Pearl
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£2/15/-.
A. Saunders’
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
4/10/-.
A. Saunders’
Diamond Cross-over
Ring:, ISct. Gold,
£7/10/-.
A. Saunders’ Five-
Diamond Half-hoop
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£5/10/-. Larger
Diamonds,
£7/10/-.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Necklet, set Pearls and
Aquamarines or Rubies,
£2/10/-.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Silver Hunting Lever,
£3, £3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5, £6,
£7/10/-. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’
Lady’s Signet
Ring, 9ct. Gold,
12/6.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Circle Brooch, set
Pearls, 12/6.
hi
%
A. Saunders Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Watch,
Vi ristlet, full jewelled, lever movement, compensation balance,
£6/10/-. Others, £4/10/-, £5/10/-, £7/10/-,’
£B/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/-, £l5.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Solid Gold Curb Albert, £5/5/.
Heavier, £5/10/-. £6/10/-, £7/JO'-. loot. Gold’
£B/10/-, £lO, £l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s Signet
Ring, 9et. Gold,
A. Saunders’ Circle
Brooch, set Pearls or
Pearls and Rubies, or
Turquoise, 30/-.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s High-grade Nickel
Lever, 25/-, 30/-. Extra Jewelled,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 QEORQE STREET, SYDNEY, Opp. Railway Station.
WHICH?
Would Prince Ted prefer it this way
Or with his friends the Digers?


Australian Discrimination
HE amazing rapidity with which Warren’s
Standard Printing Papers have “caught on”
is surely a fine tribute to the discriminating
power of the Australian business man.
There can however be little doubt that the
introduction of Warren’s papers in Australia
was well-timed as the printer had experienced
not a little press-room trouble and dissatisfaction
with the ever-varying quality of the papers
available.
He was quick to recognise the significance of a reliable
standard quality paper —material that would assist him to
assure an unvarying high-grade product from January to
December.
In addition to the standardisation feature of the Warren
papers, there are a number of exclusive factors vital to the
production of Better Printing.
These are lucidly and pleasingly presented in the handsome
volume “Warren’s Paper Buyers Guide” of which a few
copies are still available,
The utmost facilities to get acquainted with Warren’s Standard
Printing Papers, are afforded by the Sole Distributors:
B. J. BALL, LIMITED
m
W
DARD
STAN
better °Paper
c ßetter Printing
Printing Papers
STANDARD QUALITIES FOR EVERY PRINTING PURPOSE
CUMBERLAND M.F. PRINTING
CUMBERLAND SUPER CALENDERED
LIBRARY TEXT
PRINTONE IMITATION ART
OLDE STYLE (ANTIQUE FINISH)
CUMBERLAND
LUSTRO (GLOSSY)
SILKOTE (MATT)
CAMEO (MATT)
CAMEO COATED
COATED ART PAPER
COATED ART PAPER
COATED ART PAPER
COATED ART PAPER
POSTCARD BOARDS
AMPLE STOCKS CARRIED BY THE SOLE DISTRIBUTORS IN AUSTRALIA
B. J. BALL, LIMITED
168 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
552 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
132-4 Charlotte Street,
BRISBANE.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH .IUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Hotel
01
~‘«r tariff n
r 12'- pen Day
6'6 Beds Bneakfast
C-R-KenP ,45 swanston
Pnopp,e,hop . Melbourn
King George IV
™ E TOP NOTCH’ scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
WHISKY
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“U.P.”: Charles Maley, of Three Springs
(W.A.), recently killed his 5000th kangaroo. Record?
“Trebla” (B. 22/l/’2O) misses
fire when he says that the Lee-Enfteld barrel (short)
is bored two thousandths deeper at the muzzle than
at the breech. When the short rifle was first adopted
the British Government gave a large order to the
8.5. A., the barrels to be bored .303 at breech and
.305 at muzzle. When two or three thousand had
been completed the Government ordered the barrels
to be made .303 at both ends. The B.S.A. asked for
compensation, which was refused. A subsequent law-
suit was won by the B.S.A. The short barrels made
in England and also those made at Lithgow (N.S.W.)
are bored absolutely parallel. The sizes vary from
.303 to .3041 ; any taking the .305 gauge are
scrapped. Barrels bored to .305 have left the factory,
but it was due to oversight.
**' * •
“P.F.P.”: One morning recently, on the
Clarence River, at South Grafton (N.S.W. North
Coast), a number of cormorants were taking their
usual toll of the nation’s fish supply. Presently a
pelican sedately alighted amongst them, and paddled
about without apparently taking any interest in his
surroundings, and for their part ' the industrious
fishers carried on operations as heedless of his
presence. After a while he spotted a shag with a
tempting looking morsel, and in a leisurely way flew
toward him. The shag dived. The pelican slowly
gyrated on the vacated spot, patiently awaiting his
intended victim’s re-appearance. This operation was
repeated by the aquatic flying machine until the sub-
marine, evidently half suffocated by his successive
submersions, hoisted the white flag, and meekly
allowed the raider to rob him of the fruits of his
industry without further protest. This business, rob-
bery, etc., went on until the inner-pelican was satis-
fied. I was struck by the cool, calculating method
of tfie sleuth-like pursuer: although several cor-
morants were to be seen with fish while the chase
was in progress, the pelican did not allow himself
to be deflected from his purpose, but pursued the
same bird till he was worn down.
“Te Whare”: Any Abo. got any idea how
old the oldest snake is? Scientists are, generally
speaking, silent on this point. I reckon there are
some Methuselahs among serpents, and a black
snake, say, Bft. in length, is no doubt much more
than a great-great-grandfather. One never, or very
rarely, finds one of the tribe which has died from
“natural causes.’'
* * * *
“Gelt”: “Cape Pork’s” yarn about the new
brand of bully beef (B. 29/l/’2O) reminds me of
what the New Britain natives did in _ie long ago
when they were presented with their first tin of
bulamakow.” Tearing off the gaily-colored wrapper
they chewed it up and threw the tin away. They
leckoned that was the kernel. And t hot. reminds me
of another one. Whilst we were picking up cocoa-
nuts a water snake uncoiled itself from amidst the
fruit. My boys turned tail and rushed for the bush.
After they had subsided I tried to reason with
them, telling them that the snake was as harmless
as the salmon which is put up in tins for eating.
My mistake ! Not a boy on that or any of the neigh-
boring plantations would touch salmon for months.
* * * *
Pongo” : Can any Abo. tell me what the
nigs, call those throwing pieces of wood about 6in.
in diameter, circular in shape and fin. thick at the
thickest point? To better describe the implement I
would say fill a saucer with plaster of Paris and the
moulded piece obtained would be almost similar to
"hat I mean. The blacks fashion them from the
sappy parts of the yellow'wood tree. After shaping
they are held over a fire, when they gradually become
hard as stone. I knew a half-caste out Barradine
way (N.S.W.) who used to throw these things in
great style, hurling them with the round side down
and cannoning them off the, landscape like kids play-
ing ducks and drakes with flat stones on a water
surface. The “saucer” seemed to be more of a
toy than a weapon.
“McNorth”: Sea-turtles have more than
their share of nest-robbers. Both the green-backed
and tortoise-shell varieties do their laying at night,
sneaking up the beach and depositing their eggs
in the soft, warm sand just above high-water mark.
A hole about 2 ft. square is scooped out, the eggs
laid on the bottom and the sand replaced. The
turtle does not return, incubation being performed
WHAT THE CHURCH TRAIN SAID.
“How shameful, this Sabbath-breaking!”
by the sun-heat. If the beasts have come ashore at
low tide, Binghi, wandering around in the morn-
ing, finds a double track across the wet sand. He
follows it to where the sand has been disturbed, and
by means of a pointed stick probes till he finds
the nest. A white man unused to the game might
be a long time dropping on to the plunder, for
turtles are in the habit of creating make-believe
nests as a blind. If no Binghi comes along, or
the high tide has obliterated the tell-tale tracks,
goannas, crocodiles and snakes do their darndest to
scent out the nests. In the course of a day’s march
along a beach frequented by laying turtles, one will
come across dozens of robbed nests, with the
empty egg-shells, looking like punctured ping-pong
balls, lying around in hundreds. But for their skill
at camouflaging the nests and the fact that if only
one nest in a dozen escapes it - means that over a
hundred young turtles will some day waddle down
to the sea, the beasts would not be able to keep
out of the soup at all.
* * * *
“Wessels’ : Mention of a Northern Terri-
tory buffalo-hunter calls up in the mind pictures of
a cross between a centaur and a Bisley winner, a
reckless dare-devil mounted on a fiery steed,
armed with a sawn-off Martini-Henry, riding down
a herd of buffaloes and shooting SO with 30 cart-
ridges, while the humble niggers follow to collect
the hides. But that sort of thing is mostly out
of date; perhaps it always was. I was asking
whether Such and Such was a successful buffalo-
hunter. “Oh, he gets on pretty well,” said an old
hand ; “he has some very fair nigjgers to shoot for
him.” And that’s the way most of the shooting
is done. If the hunter is a sport he does a bit of
shooting now and again, but his steady job is to
organise the camp, find the plant and hire Black
Brother to do the shooting. At present the slaughter
dn the Territory runs from 10,000 to 15,000 buffaloes
a year, and if the price of hides keeps up and the
buffaloes are given no protection, there will be a
big falling-off in their numbers before long. When
the nigger goes shooting he is no more discriminating
than the white man.
* * * *
“Pink”: Whirlwinds do not, and cannot,
reverse, for the simple reason that they are merely
miniature cyclones, and any meteorologist will tell
you it is impossible for the wind flowing around
any cyclonic formation to reverse or flow in any
other direction than that in which the hands of a
clock move. From the big tropical cyclones to
tornadoes and familiar whirlwinds, the whirl is
always in the same direction. I also have noticed
the apparent reversing of a whirlwind, but it is
only an optical illusion. The reversing of a bit of
paper mentioned by “Bright” (B. 15/l/’2O) must
have been due to a small local disturbance within
the main whirl.
“Friday Island” : The Torres Strait native
lady is an accomplished and imperturbable self-
accoucheuse. Breakfast was almost 20 minutes late
but Desdemona, bringing in the plates, casually
excused herself: “Me been gettem piccaninny longa
wash-house.” Too true. In a soap-box cradle
crowed a 20-minute-old half-caste.
“Veronal”: Like Gregory Mathews, who
lost his great bird-artist, Keul-
mans, by death, before his book
on Australian birds was nearly
complete, Gould sometimes had
trouble over the pictures for his
40 splendid works. Joseph Wolf,
a famous old-time delineator of
birds, could not always accept a
retainer, and Mrs. Gould filled
the vacancy. Her drawings, ac-
cording to Alfred Newton (“Dic-
tionary of Birds”), were fairly
good, and have a remarkable
smoothness, but some of Gould’s
other illustrations Newton con-
demns as inaccurate in coloring.
Gould collected no less than
5000 specimens of the humming
birds, exhibited them at the Cry-
stal Palace in 1851, and sold the
lot to the British Museum for
£3OOO. His great collection of
Australian birds, however, went,
after his death, to a Phila-
delphia museum for £lOOO.
Capt. White, the well-known S.A.
birdman, is now endeavoring to
raise about £BOOO necessary to
secure Mathew’s still-greater col-
lection of our birds for the Ade-
laide Museum. An English writer
states that three of Gould’s Aus-
tralian collectors lost their lives
in his Service, but, so far as I
am aware, Gilbert alone did so,
and when speared by the blacks
he was not in' Gould’s employ,
but on an expedition with Leich-
hardt. No publisher would risk
Gould’s costly books, so he pub-
lished them himself, and made a
small fortune from the sales. A
shipment of Greg. Mathew’s book
(issued in parts) went down in
a torpedoed vessel and is now at
the bottom of the Atlantic.
Author and publisher (Witherby)
supplied the missing parts to sub-
scribers without further charge.
* * * *
“H.V.E.” : A small greenish-black crayfish
homes in the mud of springs on the blaek-soil plains
of Monaro (N.S.W.), and I have found him plen-
tiful in waterholes excavated in clay soil near Mitta-
gong, where he provided the only fishing available.
He clawed avariciously at junks of raw meat tied
to a line, and could be jerked from home clinging
to the provender. He was fairly toothsome, and,
like most crustaceans, blushed orange-scarlet when
boiled. Quite a different Cray lurks in the banks
of mountain creeks on the N. S. Wales South
Coast. His coloring is reddish-brown, and he has
one enormous and hefty claw, which he waves threat-
eningly when cornered. The other claw is atrophied
and soft, like that of the shrimp-like crustacean
known as a “nip” or “snap,” which homes in the
sand of tidal inlets and estuaries and is prime
whiting and bream bait. The creek-haunting cray
grows to a considerable size, aind his burrow is about
2ft. deep, as a rule.
HE NEVER LIKED THE HUMMER.
“Yes, Pat, the wicked will have to stand the
torments of the fiery furnace for ever
and ever. Think of it!”
“The Lord preserve me from it, Father, for
I know me constitution could niver stand
it.”
“Raw Newchum”: At breakfast the other
morning Bill complained to his wife of the absence
of eggs. “Oh, the crows have carried them away
again,” explained Mrs. Bill, and added that it was
not at all unusual. I’ve heard this before; but
can anybody tell me what becomes of the eggs ?
(Continued on page 26.)
CHRISTMAS AT HELL-FOR-LEATHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From Traralgon in South Gippsland years ago they
made the railway
Through Glengarry to Toongabbie and the country
further back;
And the navvies camped together,
At a place called Hell-for-Leather,
While they toiled, and cursed, and sweated, as they
opened up the track.
Now the camp at Hell-for-Leather was mostly tents
and humpies
Made of bags and old tarpaulins and a sheet or two
of bark ;
But one‘hut they took a pride in,
For a dozen could reside in
The rough bough-and-hessian structure which was
known as Noah's Ark.
It had tiers of bunks constructed out of bags and
boards and saplings,
Ranged on either side, suggestive of the foremast
sailor’s berth ;
Down the middle ran the table
Made of slabs and very stable,
For the table-legs were tree stumps, rooted solid in
the earth.
All the mates who batched together in the Ark were
rough and ready,
And they worked hard, drank hard, fought hard, in
the way that navvies do;
With diversions few and scanty,
They would visit Hogan’s shanty
When their wages were forthcoming, and they’d
booze till all was blue.
PROGRESS DURING THE WAR.
THE OLDEST INHABITANT: “Been away four
years, ’ave ’ee, lad! Well, things have
been ’appening in this town. Bill
Adams married the woman who keeps
the puh. I think Vs doin' all right—
’e’s ’most always drunk.”
But the Ark held one exception who was gifted
with discretion—
Jerry Stumbles played the hatter when the others
had a spree;
When for whisky they’d be wishing,
He’d go down the river fishing,
And the dope that he affected was the blackest
blend of tea.
Now, at Christmas, Hell-for-Leather was the scene
of wild carousal,
And the orgies at the Noah’s Ark exceeded all the
rest,
For-the gang were untamed devils
In their bacchanalian revels,
And so Jerry went a-fishing—it was useless to
protest.
And he stayed down on the river till the morning
star was shining;
When he stole back to the humpy all was silent as
the dead ;
Hushed was all the drunken cackle —
Jerry stowed his rod and tackle
On the rafters and crept silently and soberly to bed.
But his fishing-line left hanging, dangling just above
the table,
Had a highly-seasoned morsel of stale fish-bait on
the hook;
And a tiger-cat, predacious,
Starving, savage and voracious,
Came sniffing to the doorway, and a mighty leap
he took.
He gulped the fish-bait flying, but the hook held
him suspended,
A demoniac feline pendulum that whizzed from
side to side;
And around the Ark, trapezing,
He flew, spitting, yowling, sneezing,
Clawing hair and skin and whiskers till all hands
were scarified.
The riotous confusion made the hut a pandemonium,
As the fuddled, frenzied navvies mauled each other
in the dark.
And with oaths and yells appalling,
Mixed with fiendish caterwauling,
Men and wildcat fought like furies till they wrecked
the Noah’s Ark.
And the maddened men ran screaming as they
•sprinted through the timber,
With their clothing mostly remnants: Yank wore
nothing but his hat;
Mick was in the altogether
As they raced from Hell-for-Leather;
Only Jerry Stumbles stayed at home and toma-
hawked the cat.
But the sunrise found them chastened, somewhat
damaged and dejected,
Apologetic, haggard men, as contrite as could be.
And they humbly promised Jerry
That whenever they felt merry,
And desired another revel, they would celebrate
in tea !
N.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


THINK WHAT THIS MACHINE
MUST DO!
m
J -j
«*? «3i
X.
It must run hours on hours, day after day, right through the shearing, under a consistent half-horse-
power load. The fork which drives the cutters is constantly shooting back and forth nearly 6000
times a minute. The Cooper Air-cooled handpiece has been known to work under the above strain
for 1000 days, shearing nearly 15,000 sheep before replacing a single part. Have you ever heard of
any other handpiece attaining such a record? To give such unusual service a machine must be an
unusual machine.
THE iwcpefo AIR-COOLED HANDPIECE
is an unusual machine. It contains improvements that have reduced friction and heat to a minimum.
These wonderful improvements were not effected in a day or a week. They are the ultimate result
of years of closest study and experience of men who have made a life-study of shearing requirements.
The centre balanced Cooper fork is one of the largest factors in the free, easy running and low cost of upkeep of the Cooper
Handpiece. It is balanced on a fixed centre bearing and moves back and forth behind the bearing with a strong, smooth, easy
leverage. The new fork not only gives the smooth, easy leverage desired, but permits the use of a short spindle and a short one-
piece bush only, free from undue heat and friction and free from all possibility of disalignment at any time. The long trouble-
proof tension pin is one of the greatest improvements ever made in handpieces. It can be used indefinitely without regrinding
or refitting in any way. These are some of the features which enable the Cooper Handpiece to give such remarkable service at
such unheard of lo v cost of upkeep.
If you have sheep to shear, install Cooper Machines. They will cost you less in the first place than any other, and will give you
unusual service at a very low cost of upkeep. If you already have machines, fit them with Cooper Air-cooled Handpieces. They
work perfectly on any make of Overhead Gear. Write for catalogue and full particulars.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.,
134 Sussex Street, Sydney. 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Clark & Pause t, Ltd., Brisbane; N.Z. Loan & M. A. Co., Hughenden, Townsville and Rockhampton; Australasian Implement
& H. F. Co., Adelaide; G. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Perth; Hart & Sons, Launceston; Buchanan, Davidson & Co., Hobart.
IDEAL PIANOS FOR THE HOME.
ESTEY.
BUILT TO LAST A LIFETIME.
ESTEY PIANOS are masterpieces of piano
construction —the tone is beautifully full,
rich and resonant. The touch is especially
elastic and responsive.
THE DURABILITY
IS WONDERFUL.
VICTOR.
THE MOST POPULAR PIANO lIS
AUSTRALIA TO-DAY.
The VICTOR PIANO is an excellent piano
for any climate ; it contains rich tone quality,
and perfect touch with sound construction
and durability.
WHEN IN DOUBT
BUY A VICTOR.
BEHNING.
THE PIANO FOR THE ARTIST.
These beautiful instruments nave gained a
magnificent name for themselves in Australia
and can he most highly recommended.
THEY WILL PLEASE
THE MOST CRITICAL.
Every Piano Sold Fully GUARANTEED.
Your old Piano taken in exchange and its
utmost value allowed.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
WE SELL ON EASY TERMS.
Branches at
d
338 George Street, Sydney*
Brisbane, Toowoomba. Newcastle and Lismore.


Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS, surrounded by NATURAL
BUSH.
25 NEW BEDROOMS built over the water—
every room looking out to the Heads.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
. and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay..
iKne New Motor Road from Mos-
ul* ti. Amphitheatre Swimming
Baths. Fishing.
Finest CilWie. Hot ami Cold Baths. Billiards.
Tariff from 12/6 per day or
£3/10/- per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
C-AC
CA'C'
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
CAC
C.-A-0
BRAND
d
BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFtCESi
VICTORIA —Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne *
NEW SOUTH WALES—SB Pitt Street, Svdney
QUEENSLAND —Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane
Phone Central 1995
Phone City 2577
Phone 2382
[ C A C'
C-A-C-
CAC-
CAC-
d
GARTERS
No mefal
can touch you
ASK DISTINCTLY FOR
PARIS GARTERS
Value and Service Guaranteed.
Retailed Everywhere
Indents and Wholesale,
Walter Oathro Pty., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
Makers, A Stein & Co., Chicago.
“December”: It happened during Murphy’s
burning off. Murphy heaved a big hollow log on
to the fire just as Binghi appeared on the scene.
“Py cripes, you plurry fool, got mine grandmother
in that plieller log!” wailed Binghi. Two of them
rushed to rescue the ancient remains, when sud-
denly there was a terrific explosion, wood, bones
and ashes flying in all directions. Murphy lay on
his back with a cut over his left eye whilst Binghi
doubled up with his hand on his stomach. Strug-
gling to his feet, Murphy gasped, “Did your grand-
mother live on gunpowder, Binghi?” “No fear!”
said Binghi ; “she bin lib on rum.”
“Merrigal”: Long native words? Try
these: Booroowooragaveena, seagull; C’ulkinewarine-
benelup, where palms grow thick (name of a place
in W.A.) ; Coolgabberinya, frogs on the ground (name
given to a place near Tambo, Q.) ; Choongurraear-
ranarnindearn, pelican's corroboree ground (native
name of Observatory Hill, near Tweed Heads,
N.S.W.) ; Earintooloobongboorabin, the Hereafter;
Gooringaragunambone, whiskers in the ears (place in
Walgett district, N.S.W.) ; munyooganyoonook, going-
fishing; mongathandraparrawina, crazy; negaloogau-
doorin, defeat in war ; multhodirrambonee, victory in
war; ngooloomoondtlieeree, duration (“ng” is pro-
nounced like “ing” in sing) ; Taengararawar-
rawarrialdi, yellow-jacket trees (place in Ulmarra
district, N.S.W.) ; weedthaiweennanageen, reflections
(thoughts). But the Sudestian wawmamwunum-
baludawuluwuluve (literally “give me a lock of your
hair”) takes the spaghetti.
* * » #
“Ingham”: One of the grimmest of Aus-
tralia’s many coastal tragedies took place years ago
near Cairns. A trepanger had his station on an
island there, and while he was away on the reef
with his lugger and crew the island was occupied
only by his wife and child and a Chinese cook.
During his absence a party of mainland blacks
crossed over to the island. Rightly or wrongly
the woman and the Chinese reckoned that they were
not safe on the island, so they put to sea in a big
iron tank. After weeks of search the tank, with the
three corpses in it, was found, stranded, miles away.
The woman had jotted down a few notes of their
awful voyage, from which it appeared that she was
the last to go, the Chinese dying first and then the
little boy.
* * * *
“McNorth”: The New Guinea day was
hot, but bearable enough in the winding shade of
the tree-clothed river-bank. The water was smooth
and silent, and the canoe slipped down the stream
with only a guiding touch of the paddles. My
mate and I lounged on the bamboo platform aft,
listening half-asleep to the desultory conversation
of the canoe men and the occasional chuckle of the
water amongst the aerial roots of the mangroves.
Suddenly a man uttered a warning yell. The wife
of one of the crew was leaning over the side to
drink, for it was the last of the ebb, and the water
HE'LL GO
ON FOR EVER.
EARLY-MORNING VISITOR: “Dunn and Grab-
bit have commissioned me to collect the
bill you owe them.”
STONY BROKE : “I must congratulate you
on saappin ’ a permanent job.”
was fresh. She was an elderly woman, wearing
only the waist-to-knee fibre petticoat of her race.
The man who had yelled seized her by the legs,
and we whites grabbed our rifles. Too late! There
was a sudden grey flash in the water, and a croco-
dile’s head shot up. The great jaws snapped once,
there was a scream, and the woman was dragged
inboard with one of her breasts torn off. We did
what we could with the medicines from our scanty
stock, bound the pouring veins and pulsing arteries,
and with rough stitches sewed the hanging shreds
of skin. At the first village we went ashore, and
the native medicine-man took her in hand. He
applied plasters of macerated roots and herbs, made
incantations, and assured us she would soon get
well if she were left in his hands. We agreed, and
on our return two months later we found the woman,
save for an awful disfiguring scar, quite recovered.
In addition we were shown the skin of a freshly-
caught crocodile and solemnly assured that it had
belonged to the one which had done the damage.
The medicine-man had made pouri-powi of such
power that the right man-eater had fallen to the
wiles of the hunters.
HIS PORTION.
THE BUMMERr: “Ain’t you going to treat me?”
THE BREWER'S TRAVELLER: “Treat you! Ain’t I treating you? Wid contimpt!”
“Yarrum”: To keep tobacco moist just
put a little spud or orange-peel in with it, and
there will be neither dust nor trouble. The spud,
or peel, becomes quite hard, and will want renew-
ing; but don’t throw it away, as through close
contac t with the weed it makes a delicious chew !
“Temora” : I have been over most of Aus-
tralia and have never yet known of death ensuing
from the bite of red-back spider. The bite is pain-
ful, but nothing worse. In a N. S. Wales mining
town in the early ’nineties I was bitten on the
wrist by a big gray spider. That was worse: the
arm swelled very much, and the pain was very
severe. After spending a sleepless night I went
down to the old “mother” of the town. She ex-
amined the bite, and, taking a bottle from the
mantelpiece, with a feather began anointing the
marks of the bite. After a few minutes the pain
began to ease, and I kept sponging the wrist with
some of the stuff she gave me. Before evening the
swelling had gone down, and the pain disappeared.
Tlie old lady told me how to concoct the mixture,
and I have since proved its potency on bites of the
vermin so common in the bush. Here is the recipe:
Is. worth of rum; catch two centipedes (big gireon
ones preferably), add these to the rum, and cork up
ready for use.
* * * / *
“Wessels” : They are up to date in their
slang in the Northern Territory. The swagman on
horseback who wanders from station to station
is called a “looper” because he goes round and
round like an airman looping the loop. These
citizens often have a “native companion,” other-
wise a lubra or two, with them. Two of them
were having a pitch one night and one was
laying down the law in favor of a White Aus-
tralia. “Oh, shut up,” said the other looper;
“the hardest work you’ve ever done is to try
to make Australia piebald.”
“Veracitas”: “R.T.A.’s” dingo (B.
C>/11/’l9) reminds me of one I had some years ago.
This chap was found when lie was only about the
size of a pint pot. He had a dark brown saddle,
so I don’t think he was pure bred. He was very
clever at learning’ tricks and a grand cattle-dog and
snake-killer. He got seven in five days, .all poison-
ous. He had a great fondness for children, and
would remain all night on any watching job he
was put to, and no one dared to lay a hand on me
if he was around. When on the chain he would lie
for hours gnawing a bone.' The first time I tried to
give this chap a hiding he made me think I had
jambed my wrist in a kangaroo trap. He never
barked, but on a cold night would go through a
whole repertoire of dingo music. I drifted into a
sugar village, where he one day got into holts with
a setter and scored a win. After that his assaults
on other dogs got me into so many rows that I
sold him to passing drovers for a quid. Last I
heard of him he was taking prizes at country shows
as a cattle-dog.
“Te Whare”: I’ve never seen a brown or
tiger snake in a tree, though the diamond and carpet
snakes often roost in them for days, and the.former
sometimes hatches her flock in a trunk-hollow, fur-
nishing the incubatory chamber with dry grass. I’ve
watched black snakes climb wire-netting fences, but
the tiger and brown, unless they can get through
the mesh, wander up and down much after the
fashion of the lagoon “turtle,” which will die in
front of an obstacle it cannot surmount rather than
turn back. Through a Bananaland snakologist I’ve
made the acquaintance of a reptile known as the
black-bellied black snake. Heard of him ?
“Burnett”: When in the Bundaberg (Q.)
district we had a small lizard which came out after
flies every evening as regular as sunset. His modus
operandi was to work under the verandah g'.-i. roof-
ing, and cautiously get to within about two inches
of his prospective victim. He would get his feet
well forward, pause, and then spring. On one
occasion I put the watch on him: in 20 minutes
he made 20 tries ' and scored 19. He usually-
occupied an hour getting through the menu.
“Jewy”: Can any bloque -on the job tell
me why strychnine hydrochloride is of no use for
fox poison whilst the alkaloid is effective? The
medicinal dose is the same in each case; the solu-
bility is about 1-6000 to 8000 of water in the case of
the alkaloid, while the hydrochloride is about 1-43.
Taking the solubility into account, the hydrochloride
should be the more effective.
“Arafura”: Anyone who wants a tropical
Arcadia is recommended to try the Daintree River,
between Port Douglas and Cooktown (N.Q.). Cedar-
cutters first opened it up, and then there were a
good many settlers ; but most of them have cleared
out, as they could not get their stuff to market.
The river is a. mile wide at the mouth, and navig-
able by motor boats for 25 miles or more. Bananas
and eocoanuts run wild, and there’s plenty of fish
to be caught. The few, families that remain grow
their own coffee—and it’s some of the best —and
lashings of taro, sweet potatoes, yams, ma.ngoes,
paw-paws and the like. They make flour out of
bananas, and want mighty little from outside but
a minimum of clothing material.
“Widgee”: Is the “black tracker” a back
number? Now and again, when a heap of bones is
found in a bush gully, or a cadaver, all shot to
pieces, discovered on a motor-car on some lonely
outer-suburban road, about three days later it may
be mentioned in the dailies that “the black trackers
are being brought from Dandenong to go over the
scene of the supposed crime.” But nothing ever
seems to happen in the way of black-tracking the
murderer to his lair. It may be because Jacky is
usually introduced to the scene too late, after ques-
ting John Hop has distributed 5000 heavy hoofsteps
about the vicinity; or it may be because the white
investigator reckons he himself is the stuff to do
all t:lie tracking necessary, Jacky being introduced
merely to throw into bold relief the superior methods
of the C. 1.8. Whatever the reason the bright legend
of my youth as to the uncanny powers of Binghi
has of late years faded to a pale, rusty hue, and is
badly frayed around the edges. Is any aboliar able
to restore it with a coat or two of personal reminis-
cence ?
Edward Dyson has to fight for his life: —
I went to Dodge’s at Pennyroyal because 1 had been
seeing things over my shoulder. The doctor says
that when a pointed face with no body grins at you
over your left shoulder it is bad luck, and you must
go to Dodge’s at Pennyroyal and look at the birds
and count the rabbits.
Besides eating curds and wearing flannel next the
skin, I was enjoined to sleep out, and Dodge
rigged up a bed for me at the end of the side
verandah. The head of my bunk was right under
the kitchen window; but here was the only cover
from the west wind and the unexpected rain, and
I overlooked the contingent disadvantages.
At the window above my bed within the house
was a side table. It was fairly large, and a little
higher than the sill, and barred the Dodge kids from
taking liberties. Of the Dodge kids there were seven,
or 11, or 28, or something like that. I was never
quite certain because of their peculiar capability of
repeating themselves. The one wiio fell on me from
the hen house, for instance, may have been the
same as ran at me round a corner 10 seconds later
with a hideous gohanna. But I could not swear to
it; it might have been an entirely different Dodge.
i went to bed on the night of the 12th entirely
worn out. I had counted the rabbits in the cow
paddock, and re-arranged the birds, and put the
poultry to bed with the assistance of some morphia
added surreptitiously to their evening meal in the
fond hope of keeping the crowing section spell-
bound till breakfast; but it was after 12 before
I fell into a troubled sleep peopled with such quaint,
atrocious dreams as come to men who see faces
over their left shoulder without the aid of strong
drink. My dreams were mainly of overgrown
gohannas.
It was perhaps two when I awoke with the sen-
sation of having my face caressed by a hand, a
fat, dead, flabby hand. Or it might have been a
tongue, the tongue of some huge, amorphous, slug-
gish, sloth-likc thing—a belated diprotodon, for in-
stance. It certainly was a tongue. The dreadful
thing was all over me, winding in moist, turgid
convolutions about my face, lying across my neck,
weighing on my throat, choking me.
Was it a tentacle, the winding, dank arm of some
land octopus, flaccid yet irresistible? I fought with
the beastly thing. My fingers sank into its un-
resisting flesh. I tore at it in vain ; for, though the
loathly mass yielded under my grip, other folds fell
about me. I tried to shriek in the horror that was
upon me, but the flesh of the beast rolled into my
mouth, stifling me. I bit at it wildly like a cor-
nered dog. Pah ! the pulpy meat yielded under my
teeth like curd. Loathing I tried to spit it from me,
but the thick folds of its body now lay about my
face, and I could feel its gross, slow movements.
I fought madly, thrusting an arm into the pul-
taceous side of my enemy, groping for its vitals,
sickened beyond expression with the foetid odor of
the thing and the detestation and blind terror its
cold passion, its unearthly puissance inspired. With
a mighty effort I fought my way up clean through
the mass of the damned thing. Its macerated flesh
hung about me in tatters. I felt more and more
rolling upon me to complete my ruin, to engulf me,
to absorb me. But the air was in my lungs for
the moment, and I uttered a terrible cry. Scream
after scream broke from me.
Dodge came in his long, silly, white nightshirt.
Mrs. Dodge came in a sheet. Many young Dodges
came, and formed a semicircle about my bed. They
held candles, and they laughed: even the littlest
Dodge laughed. The chorus might have disturbed
the man next door a mile away. Old Dodge sat
down on the edge of the verandah, and struggled
with his mad mirth; but every time he looked at
me he exploded again, and clung to the post in
helpless merriment.
On the table at the open window above the head
of my bed a large pan containing the making of
the week’s bread had been set to rise. This pan,
covered with a white cloth, had been left with a
cant on to the window-sill. The material within had
risen beyond all expectation, and had overflowed.
The struggle I had put up, the battle of my life,
had been with about a barrow-load of dough!
THE SEARCH . FOR A SACRED
PRINCIPLE.
FIRST NAUTICAL GENT : “Like to spend the
'olidays in port, Bill?”
SECOND NAUT, GENT. : “Rather!”
FIRST NAUT. GENT.: “Righto! What’ll we
strike about?”
“Barcoo”; Owing to high prices prevail-
ing for beef and mutton, goat is at last taking its
proper place on the menu in Bananaland. Recently
in Rockhampton a young wether returned its owner
575., the pelt alone bringing in 245. The meat
was retailed by a butcher at Is. per lb. as mutton.
A full- or half-bred angora wether up to 12 or 18
months old provides the best meal. Besides possess-
ing the qualities of the best mutton, goat is
hygienieally one of the safest meats; Bill and Nan
being particularly free from disease.


ra
7N
A
O'
/
1
/
/
A
ad
\
CIGARETTES
'Something different —something better —
than you have ever smoked before.”
» NUMBER®
D
D
B
THE RED PACKET
m
©
'Absotc*
e/i
u O’.
SPO!
<>
°/SA
/<s 9
?0
vs>s
'V
,^/V,
ss
'V
o
C>o
u


M
w,
w
c *£sr
r^o
MiMis
&
%\^N
CROUP
Id.
A Plain
Fact!
EVERY Drop ot
Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
* Bond Street. SYDNEY. ‘
poet get his characters’ thoughts upon paper
save by their utterance?” But isn’t the poet
at liberty to divine these unspoken thoughts,
and clothe them in the raiment of poetry?
Does Hilary Lofting seriously consider that
Hamlet’s numerous soliloquies were ever
actually spoken? Surely they are his inmost
philosophies, bared by ’ the poet, and made
manifest in fine language. And, again, are
the deeper emotions, the “thoughts” with
which poetry is concerned, voiced invariably
in words (Jet alone slang) ? Must an in-
tense hatred be expressed in English before
it can be felt? Must love? Must avarice?
When Mr. Lofting loses his temper, does he
repeat mentally the words “I am angry”?
Everyday life begets everyday thought, and
this (as Mr. Raymond observes) is expressed
in the brain in the shape of everyday speech.
But what has poetry to do with everyday
thought ?
Let us, for the sake of lucidity, distinguish
between poetry and verse. When Mr. Loft-
ing mentions “The Northern Farmer” he is
mentioning verse. When such dialect-work
as 'The Shropshire Lad” files before his
“stupefied memory,” lie is concerning him-
self with something very different to
“Oenone.” He does, indeed, cite “Endymion”
and “Paradise Lost.” But there being no
dialect used in either of these poems, how
can he deny that the writers are expressing
not their characters’ actual and recorded
utterances, but the essential texture of their
thoughts ?
As to Mr. Lofting’s mysterious references
to a “solid h,” I must confess I could not
follow the meaning of his opening para-
graph any more than the esoteric imagery of
his final sentence. But I have no doubt they
mean something very significant to Mr.
Hilary Lofting.
KENNETH SLESSOR.
A Poet's Puppets
Hobart World (Labor) the other day
ventured to make some more or less apposite
quotations from the poets, among them
Lowell’s (Cromwell speaking) :
The time is ripe and rotten-upe for change ,
Then let it come: I have no dread ot what
is called for by the instinct of mankind;
Nor think I that God’s world will fall apart
Beeause we tear a parchment more or less.
The World leader-writer attributed the lines
to Longfellow; and a Labor paper, particu-
larly one that makes denunciation of “anti-
Christian” capitalism its chief line, really
ought to know its Lowell better. For of all
the poets, ancient and modern, the author
of “The Parable” and “The Pious Editor’s
Creed” has sledge-hammered most strenu-
ously along that particular line of policy.
Among the many Australian admirers of
Lowell was the late William Lane, who was
probably the best-equipped Labor journal-
ist in the Commomvealth. The readiness
with which he could quote, and would quote,
slabs of “Biglow” left no doubt in the minds
of Lane’s intimates as to his love for the
American’s works. Indeed, it is not unlikely
that Lilly’s” attractive presentation of
Lowell gems to his Australian colleagues in
the pioneering days of Labor is responsible
f Ol . the fact that nearly every working-class
leader of to-day owns a well-thumbed copy
G f the author’s collected works.
Lane would drawl out Lowell on the
slightest provocation. One well-remembered
night I heard him intone: —
once to every man and nation comes the moment to
decide,
in the strife of Truth with Falsehood, for the good
or evil side.
jje was trying to induce his friend Donald
Macdonell to join up for Paraguay. Mac-
donell persistently argued in favor of re-
formers capturing the law-making machinery
h ere i n Australia. Then Lane quoted more
Lowell:—•
Praise6t Law> friend? Ay, but what Law?
i s there nothing more divine
Than the patched-up broils of Congress — venal, full
of meat and wine ?
th^ e > sa / you ’ no . tl ‘” lg , higher?
m ,„ tor
vu i gar ends ?
And after a ' pause, this, from “A Glance
Upland fUn-iaiTi” •
time is ripe aad rotte n-ri P e for change;
Then let it
come, etc., etc.
p >u (- Donald, w T ho also knew his Lowell,
c i luc ki e( j and chipped in with a few lines
from th<3 same Crom-Lowellian speech
What should we do in that smali colony
Qf pinched fanatics, who would father choose
Freedom to clip an inch more from their hair,
Than the great chance of setting England free?
Not there, amid the stormy wilderness,
JSSUI Jittl
e ] earn our sou i s more, tossing for an hour
Upon the }uig . e and eve r vexed sea
Of human thought....
Than in a cycle of New England sloth.
This apt retort gave the company a hearty
laugh at Lane’s expense, but the little man
beamed admiringly up at his tall bushman
friend and drawled out: “That’s very good,
Donald ; but Cromwell’s way meant bloody
warS) a nd he had not yet learned the eternal
truth that
Ef you take a sword an’ dror it
Guv W ain't to it,
God’ll send the bill to you.”
~ , , T , -
Yet seven years later Lane, returned from
South America, was relinquishing the editor-
ship of Sydney WORKER because he failed to
see eye to eye with organised Labor (or
Tile Bulletin) in regard to the Boer War!
Donald Macdonell did not take passage to
Paraguay in the Royal Tar; he declined
Lane’s invitation, as Cromwell declined
Hampden’s four centuries earlier. Lane
“launched his Mayflower on the desp’rate
winter sea,” but made the return trip by
steamer. Neither of these men ever ad-
mitted failure. But New Australia is but
a memory and Macdonell Plouse (Donald’s
monument) is divided against itself and full
of Labor squabble and mean intrigue. Also
James It. Lowell's countrymen are jabbing
14 sharp points of order into the consti-
tution of the League of Nations. Under all
these joint and several circumstances it
hardly seems worth while arguing whether
Cromwell or Hampden took the more correct
view. Ireland is still a land of ire, the
descendants of the Pilgrim Fathers are still
whipping creation with wooden hambones,
and there are differences of opinion every-
where. But as the world is still as ripe and
rotten-ripe for change as ever it seems fairly
clear that Lowell is entitled to whatever
respect is coming to a dead poet who made
one safe and everlastingly sure prophecy.
His compatriot Ixmgfellow should not be
blamed for that.
WEALSALAN.
A Sidelight on the Irish Row
A booklet issued by the Irish Unionist
Alliance (Dublin), An Imperial Danger,
will assist overseas readers to understand
the astonishing advance made of late by
Sinn Fein. The war has not helped the
Alliance type of Unionists either to forger,
or to learn. Most of their arguments in
favor of the English connection were stale
half a century ago. It was over 7i cen-
tu, tes since some of them were first put
forward. For example :—■
There are some popular misconceptions about
Ireland which are unfortunately current in certain
sections of the press. The alleged rights of “Ire-
land a Nation” and the “legitimate aspirations of
the Irish people” are expressions often exploited as
the basis of the “popular demand.” Ireland never
was a nation in the political sense. The word
“nation” may, of course, be used in a non-political
sense, but in any sense in which it can be used
with truth, Ulster is a nation quite as much as
Ireland. Yet the Nationalists claim the right of
crushing Ulster. The vast majority of Irish Pro-
testants of all denominations regard the mainten-
ance of the Union as essential for the protection of
their religious liberties.
Nationhood in the political sense signifies a
country united under one sovereign. It
meant something a century ago, and a great
deal in the Middle Ages; to-day it means
little; to-morrow it may mean nothing. The
first and only abiding definition of nation-
hood is “a race united by blood, religion or
customs; or by all three.” Is there a people
in the world that fulfils these requirements
more completely than the Irish?
Even in the political sense Erin was
a nation (under the Milesians of Tara)
when tribalism prevailed on the Eng-
lish side of the Channel. The present
Ulstermen come of comparatively recent im-
migrant stock. They number but 20 per
cent, of the population. They are only 70
per cent, in the four Unionist counties of
Ulster. And it is only in recent times that
any of them have developed a liking for
England. The Oakboys’ and the Steelboys’
insurrections in the 16th century were
fomented by Protestants. Protestants emi-
grated for years afterwards; so that, in the
words of a modern English commentator
(Good), “fully half the names attached to
the American Declaration of Independence
were those of men of Ulster stock.”
The story about Nationalism threatening
the Protestant religion would be absurd even
if, in these indifferentist times, any religion
stood to be imperilled by any form of Gov-
ernment. The Orangemen were originally
“disloyalists”—lawless bands known as the
Peep o’ Day Boys. The United Irishmen
were founded and led by Wolfe Tone, a most
vehement anti-Papist. And from ’9B to Par-
nell’s day, and from Parnell to Plunkett,
many of the most effective leaders of Nation-
alist thought have, been Protestants. The
issue is not religious, but political and
racial, which explains why the bitterest oppo-
nents of Home Rule have always been mem-
bers of the great English Catholic families,
from the premier English Duke downwards.
The Alliance publication, having estab-
lished that Ireland has no rights as a nation,
addresses itself to the self-determination pro-
blem :
If self-determination is to be applied at all,
surely it is the electors of the United Kingdom who
must determine the form of government to be applied
to a part. Whenever they have. been given the
opportunity they have declared against Home Rule
for Ireland.
In other words, the thief should decide
whether or no he should give up the stolen
goods. The ancestors of “the electors of
the United Kingdom” invaded Ireland in
1170 just as Germany invaded Belgium in
1914. As an old chronicler pathetically
put it; “Earl Strongbow came into Erin to
avenge his expulsion, and Saxon foreigners
have been in Erin since then.” The Anglo-
Normans never pretended in the early stages
to be in Ireland for anything but gain. In
the 13th century the familiar argument was
first advanced that Erin would have to be
held as “a boterasse and a poste” of Eng-
land’s safety. The time was ripe for some
such justification of further tenure, the un-
happy country being by then half-ruined.
By the middle of the fifteenth century five-
sixths of the people had been killed or had
died of hunger and 75 per cent, of their
farm-stock were dead. Irish history from
the Union onwards is familiar to most people.
It is a horrible record of mixed stupidity
and cruelty on the part of the ruling race,
followed by a brief era of enlightened gov-
ernment, culminating in Frenchism. Of
course the Alliance is all for the latter sys-
tem, the machine-gun method of administra-
tion. Under radicalism it complains that
“the functions of government were sur-
rendered to the Nationalists. There was no
government worthy of the name. That is
what has been wrong in Ireland from 1906
until the advent of Lord French.” Since
An Imperial Danger was posted to Australia
Lord French himself has ceased to believe in
repression. How, in the circumstances, are
Australians to swallow it?
What Australia has been looking to Eng-
land for, ever since the Great War ceased, :'s
some scheme of settlement based on reason-
ableness and equity—some such statesman-
like proposal, for instance, as was put before
the Boers by a Radical Cabinet when the
Transvaal Dutch still loathed the name of
England. The Lloyd George Government
appears afraid to take the chance, or else
lacks the intention to do the right and fair
thing. And the people who are doing mosl
to keep it in that frame of mind are those
Catholics like Lord Bellew and Protestants
like Lord Farnham who associate themselves
with propaganda work such as is represented
by An Imperial Danger. Reading it any
moderately-inclined Irishman might well
say: “If this is all the Unionists are pre-
pared to offer, what is there for me but
Sinn Fein?”
More of War’s Wicked Waste
Books like Noel Ross and his Work set a
man thinking that if others don’t take in
hand the prevention of war, with its waste,
its wickedness and its stupidity, then millions
of people will swallow all the crudities of
the Internationalists and give them support
if only they show sincerity upon this one
point. Here was a brilliant youngster who
left his school in Maoriland to go to the
front. He had no training to speak of for
the work; yet from his hospital bed, after
being smashed in Gallipoli, he wrote for the
Times what it starred as the most graphic
personal narrative of the event that had
reached England. Months later, after he
had got to London and been “boarded” and
rejected even for home service, the frag-
ments he had sent to the Times won for him
a place on its editorial staff. He brought
to nis job the freshness of youth.. He knew
none of the old paths, and so moved along
in none of the old ruts. He had something
of the photographic eye of Henry Lawson:
there are those little intimate things in the
pictures he drew that make you feel sure
of their fidelity. Of course, there are jobs
where the skill of the craftsman counts; and
if young Ross had had more of it his
“stories” about the Grand Fleet, the Battle
Cruisers and Building the Warships would
have been better. As a writer the young
man had only dawned. He was but 27 when
enteric made its fatal call upon his broken
constitution. But the early hours of his
brief morning gave promise of a brilliant
day. There is, by way of introduction, a
biography, no doubt by his father, that well-
known Maoriland writer v T ho has been doing
for the Dominion what Charles Bean has
done for the Commonwealth. Noel was his
only son. The volume, published by Edward
Arnold, London, is dedicated “To Eileen.”
Young Ross died on the eve of his wedding-
day.
A Satchel of Books
Digger Dialects, by W. H. Downing
(Lothian Publishing Co., Melbourne). This
is a short dictionary of terms used by Aus-
tralian soldiers. Some of them have been
long in use; some sprang to life in the
great tumult. It is an interesting Jittle
record and may help the literary student of
the future to understand some things that
with the fading years might otherwise grow
into deep mystery. On the other hand, it
may greatly mislead the future novelist; for
words used 60 times a day jostle those which
were the rare invention of a fancy grown
angry with mud and discomfort. Still, it
is hard to see how the book could have been
done much better.
On Swan River, by Hulbert Footner
(Hodder and Stoughton, London). A yarn
of Canadian adventure beyqnd Fort Enter-
prise—a trading centre where Stonor stands
for law and order. Clare, as beautiful as
romance demands, goes with the policeman
in search of her husband, who is the mys-
terious doctor of the river. They find him
dead ; and then Clare loses her memory. Up
to that point the tale goes fairly well, but
it tails off into fatigue. Still, there is an old
Indian woman in the yarn who is worth
while.
Ghosts I Have Met, by Violet Tweedale
(Herbert Jenkins). Violet Tweedale is the
daughter of Robert Chambers, who once
edited «*Chambers’s Journal ; and through
this volume she gossips largely about all
sorts of people—artists, kings, other actors,
publishers, nice old ladies and ghosts. The
ghosts are quite numerous and true to type;
and nearly all the notables of Europe who
lived between IS7B and 1900 are repre-
sented as having been quite firm believers in
uncanny visitations of one sort and another.
A rambling but not unpleasant futility.
The Round Table for December is as
thoughtful as usual, and invaluable to the
student of the politics of “the British Com,:
monwealth.” Of much practical interest to
Australia is a review of the movement in
Britain to increase agricultural production.
The Lloyd George Government, at any rate,
seems determined that Britain shall no
longer be dependent upon overseas markets
for its foodstuffs ; and that ought to be a
hint to Australia that it must not depend on
the export of foodstuffs.
Australian Campaigns in the Great War,
by Stanifarth Smith (Macmillans). If you
judge this book by its cover, you will say
that at this time of day it is quite super-
fluous ; but if you look inside, as a reviewer
is entitled to do now and then, you find that
it unexpectedly fills an empty place. It is
rather a handbook to the wars than a his-
tory of them; for besides being a sort of
diary of the Australian forces, there are
records of the Peace Treaty, and the League
of Nations, appendices showing (for pur-
poses of comparison) great battles of the
past, with troops, engaged, casualties
and percentages of casualties; total troops
mobilised in the Great War, with
casualties; war expenditures; Australian
casualties in the campaigns and battles
(the third battle of Ypres, which almost
filled the summer of 1917, was by far
the costliest) ; comparative rates of pay in
various of the Allied armies; and pensions;
and with all this are maps of numerous
battlefields. It was well worth while getting
this information together in handy form ; and
Staniforth Smith’s book will be kept close hv
when most other war books have been pushed
away on the top shelf. Australian Cam .-
paigns, by the way, though published by
Macmillans, has been printed in Australia —
just as one would expect a book by so good
an Australian to be.
■ •
A. P. K. Morris, lately general sec. to
the Federal executive of the Returned Sol-
diers’ and Sailors’ League, has become busi-
ness manager of Aussie, the battlefield
paper which is to be resurrected shortly.
In accepting his resignation the executive
spoke words of praise for the great things
he had done for the League, and backed it
all up with a gold watch and chain and two
months’ salary.
“Trion”: Ransome T. Wyatt, compiler of
“The Digger on the Durham,” “about the
most elaborate souvenir-volume of a troop-
ship’s homeward voyage” (B. 8/l/’2O), has
charge of the Goulburn (N.S.W.) Diocesan
Registry. As publicity agent for the diocese,
he turns out an unending stream of type-
written stuff, and in his spare moments
drafts “ordinance” for the Synod on the
Parliamentary pattern.


W 1
s.
urn
.ms
lilf
i
&
\
: is : :
: :s : 1
11 1 i!
i ?{ i! 1
: \ | s:
:: : 3 : 2
i! ij 11
i j
s:| ti
111 II
1
i
|
SB
in
i i 1
iitl
! s is:!
III!
I! Hi
s ssss
i fisi
SSSS 3
Sess 3
sss: :
i
H!
i! H!
|! HI
II
1
\\
i ill
\\
&
\\
\\
SB
A
e
£2
A
A
o
rn
is: :
ni
ii i
3
a
is :
3
I i
%
§
VVi
LA
%
\
cs
&
*
sfggisgg I
sii
ii!
:!
Ii
s ; s v i?
IMsu
ill
1 illli 1 ill i
s*|:3 :{v
|: Illlpfy
§ in i
ss s S S Si S s s
Atinfeldi
iii.il
is-•:::: ss ss ::
! i
The Three Dominions
Canada brings to Australasia the DOMINION Tyre. Canada-made
and Australasia used, DOMINION Tyres have the guarantee of
British workmanship, built to British standards.
Rugged and sturdy* DOMINION Tyres are the proud products of
Canada’s largest rubber company. They come to Australasia full-
value, full-service tyres, worthy of their name — DOMINION —and
its traditions.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING GARAGES AND
Metropolitan Garage & Motor Agency,
George Street, Brisbane.
Dominion Tyre Agency,
27-31 Little Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Cheney Motor Co., Ltd.,
42-8 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Westralian Farmers Limited,
Wellington Street, Perth.
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVES: 53 York Street, SYDNEY.


m. i
pe&wf
You will find hhe besf possible
advice fo Sheepowaers.
IjUixJxeMjU
" CfdWKJfc
jdydfay #i/
Baby is a
Connoisseur
in his own little way. He likes
•—and must have the best.
Yqu cannot be too cautious in
selecting his food. Use a proved,
food—a food which has been in
the front rank for many years.
Mellin’s Food is the proved most
efficacious equivalent to Mother’s
Milk, and satisfactorily fulfils all the
requirements of an artificial food.
Mellms
Food
Set out to feed baby right. Next to breast-feed-
ing, the Mellin’s Feeding Bottle has most advan-
tages. A trial convinces you.
A Sample of Mellin’s Food, with Handbook for
Mothers, “The Care of Infants in Australia," free.
Messrs. Gollin & Qp. Proprietary, Ltd.
Williams
Holder Top I |||j|j|
SHAVING STICK
MEN who appreciate
the comfort of a
good clean shave
will welcome Williams’
“Holder” Top Shaving
Stick for the economy,
shaving comfort and con-
venience it affords. '1 he
Shaving Stick and metal
the fin-
gers never touch the soap.
It gives you a rich, moist,
abundant,. soothing lather,
and makes shaving a plea-
sure no matter how stub"
born the beard may be.
If your Chemist cannot sup-
p y you send 2/- in stamps
direct to “ William-,” Box
98, G.P.0., Sydney, and we
wid forward you bv re-
turn a full size William’s
“Holder” Top Shaving
Stick—Post Free.”
We also recommend
“Williams” Luxury
Shaving Cream,
Quick i *d Easy Shaving
roivder.
Shav-
ing
Cakes
for the
Mug
Sold
Every-
wuere.
rod
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England.
d
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
ď
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
đ
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Ajrent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 BrooUman Buildings,
*4
•S. V
rri
♦«v
•Sat-
Si'l
teMSmjtzz^iwsjtjt
7m
Vi
AM
V
H/ t Al'S%y<
GETj RID-OF- TOER
|l* -'-jO
11l weeds grow apace, and their presence
robs the soil of the nourishment required
by crops, reduces yields, and increases
the cost of production.
Blackberries and St. John’s Wort are
already in undisputed possession of valu-
able areas of land, and are gaining ground
rapidly.
The farmer who wages war on weeds and
scrubs with
“VALLO” Brand
Weed, Scrub, and Tree Killer
—the economical and infallible means of
destroying any and every kind of noxious
growth—is best off in the long run.
With him. clean and profitable crops and
pastures are the rule and not the exception.
Put “Vallo” on your clearing job NOW,
and just watch it work. You’ll not regret
it.
Manufactured by
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
Melbourne - Sydney - Brisbane
TREES and SCRUB
ST. JOHN’S WORT
THISTLES DOCKS
BOXTHORN
COUCH FERNS
FURZE SORREL
WEEDS of every kind
m
VALLO”
BRAND
¥/ . BKANU
WEED, SCRI® h
TREE KDi^
CpoisoH] St
the: palace hotel,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
£
1
£_P
Pure wool oi the finest quality
is spun ani woven by British
workpeople in Britain to make
_these Jason Stockings and
fjSocks with the Finish that
I affords sheer comiort all
II through wear X
Two good ends are achieved
when you buy Jason
You get whatyow need- first quality stockings and socks,
all-wool, unshrinkable, perfect-fitting, with the downy-
soft Jason Finish: and you uphold the manufacturers
of the Mother-country against foreign competition.
d
Quality
Stockings and Socks
For Men, Women and Children.
Good Drapers and Stores everywhere can
supply you, See the Jason Tab.
Manufactured by :
W. TYLER SONS & CO,
King Street. Leicester, England.
Thi Jatoti
Tab
LOADING CHAFF BY GRAVITATION. (No power required.)
MANUFACTURERS OF LABOR-SAVING MACHINERY.
GRINDING, DRESSING, MIXING AND PACKING MACHINERY.
MACHINERY SPECIALISTS. FACTORY EXPERTS.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing* WorKs Pty. Ltd*
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. l±
American shipping- cos. are suffering from
dry rot. The managers assert that they
can’t compete with foreign passenger-ships
which serve cocktails, and have asked Pre-
sident Wilson what can be done about it.
“Ilamer”: There must have been some
good “ratters” amongst the • Germans, too.
One of the members of the Ist Battalion
used to boast that he got 2000 francs in one
haul from a slain Hun; and that much
French money must have taken some gather-
ing.
The Local Court, Adelaide, has laid down
the interesting principle that if you owe a.
man money you ought to chase him with it
—not wait for him to chase you on the
chance of getting it. Said Mitchell, S.M.:
“I have no patience with the debtor who
expects the creditor to call for his money.
In this case an offer is made of Is. a week.
If a creditor sends a collector it may cost
him 2s. to get the Is. You go round and
pay ; it is your duty. It is your debt.”
“Wessels”: Queensland’s cheap meat
policy stops a long way short of Thursday
Island. There beef was Is. Sd. a lb. last
time any could be got (just before Christ-
mas). and when it comes on again it will
be Is. lUd. for good cuts. Mostly the cattle
are brought over from the Jardine River
(or thereabouts), on Cape York Peninsula.
There has been talk of raising cattle on
Prince of Wales Island, a sizeable bit of
land with some decent grass just a hop, step
and jump from “Thirsty,” but it’s all talk
so far.
The Naicest people in Melbourne’s genteel
Eastern suburbs are sizzling with indigna-
tion. Sugar hasn’t been talked about for the
last fortnight and the unmade jam is almost
forgotten owing to this final insult. It came
in the form of a printed ultimatum from the
bread bandits. If the lady of the house isn’t
waiting on the doorstep to pay s|d. cash
Avith one hand while he chucks her the loaf
into the other, she won’t get any bread. If
.she wants to go out shopping or visiting at
the hour of his official call, she can starve or
eat her hat.
“Araminta” : The copra that “Gizo” sells
for £lO to £l9 per ton (B. 22/l/’2O) must
go through a lot of sticky fingers before it
readies the public—that part of the crop,
at least, which is sold for food. I paid
2s. to-day for a pound of desiccated cocoa-
nut, which is at the rate of £224 per ton.
It’s not as though, the stuff was a necessity,
however. It’s a luxury, and “we must pay
for our luxuries.” No doubt the luxury-
monger has this little saying hung in a
gold frame over his mantel-shelf. Cocoanut
goodies are indigestible, anyway; so Sticky
Fingers is on solid moral ground.
“Te Babarantiko”: Cotton of excellent
quality (B. 5/2/’2O) was grown at Kamma
(Cairns, N.Q.) once upon a time, and the
Boss River flats at Townsville have been
white with the vegetable fleece. Why the
Townsville enterprise died I do not know 7 .
As to Cairns the company formed in London
for cotton-growing required a substantial
bounty, but, receiving the glassy eye instead,
pined away and died. In the same locality
£15,000 w r as spent in attempted rubber cul-
ture. A few 7 dead trees bear evidence of the
failure to acclimatise a hill variety of rubber
trees to the lowlands. Present favorable
conditions undoubtedly make a second
attempt w 7 orth while.
“Repatriated” : A recent discourse on tech-
nical education in Victoria (B. l/l/’2O)
moves me to say what I know. A couple of
years ago I arrived back as an invalided
Digger w 7 ith a university degree in science.
Looking around for a job I sought the local
vocational training committee, and was
passed on to the technical schools authorities.
They told me there w 7 as a vacancy, said 1
w 7 as just the man they wanted, and helped
me fill in an application form. Then there
was a long interval —so long that I took
a much better paid job with a private con-
cern —and have, I may add, done remark-
ably w 7 ell for myself. It was months later
that I received an official notice from the
Education Department that my application
had been favorably considered, and I had
been appointed science master. Now do
you wonder why the teaching service in that
branch isn’t —well, brilliant?
“Slip Rails”: Now that bunny has been
promoted to real sealskin in America and
otlihr places, pelts have reached the absurd
price of 4s. each in England, and in Aus-
tralia it is x-eckoned that 2s. 6d. is in sight;
so the trapper simply skins bunny where
he catches him, throwing the carcase away.
Trapping for skins is an easier business than
trapping for food ; the trapper has no neces-
sity to rush his goods away to a refrigerator,
and he can handle a much larger load of
skins w r hen they have no carcase in them. It
is shocking waste of good meat, all the same
—meat that, besides being welcome on the
local market, would help to pay the interest
bill abroad. A certain number of rabbits
still go, skin and all, to the factories, but
the skin loses a good deal of its value unless
separated immediately from its original,
owner ; in fact, it loses its chance of becom-
ing real sealskin. In the Dubbo district
(N.S.W.)) an effort is being made to avoid
the waste. A firm of buyers sends a light
motor van around to pick up the whole
spoil the traps, carcase and pelt together.
“Batavia” : A man in the tea trade is off
to Java to ask the Dutch planters why they
are not sticking to their contracts, instead
of swindling us wholesale by putting in com-
mon stuff in the fine season’s supply. They
have contracts for six or 12 months, and in
the fine season when we would expect first-
rate tea we are getting rotten stuff. Instead
of plucking the last three leaves, and the
“bud,” or little terminal shoot before it has
opened out into a leaf, they are “plucking
coarse,” or including the fourth and fifth
and even the sixth leaf, and are by this
means doubling the supply and halving the
quality. With tea at from 05 to 90 cents
per pound (Is. Id. to Is. 6d.) you can figure
out the profit they are making. (It used to
be 40 cents, or Sd. per lb.) The exchange
is against us also, and the guilder, which
used to be 12 to the sovereign, is now down
to 8.80 (100 cents go to the guilder, which
is worth Is. Sd.).• No wonder the public
can’t get a pound of average tea under
2s. (kl. to 2s. lOd. per pound! Sydnev
agents’ fees at this rate have a little‘more
than trebled, so the unfortunate consumer
is being hit up out of all reason, as well
as getting poor stuff for his money.


Your Golden Fleece Demands
ALL BRITISH
&he
is
HANDPIECE.
YOUR wool is too precious to shear with any but the Best Handpieces,
and your shearers and experts will tell you the best is the Lister. It’s
the Lister that gets that extra ounce or two of wool, instead of leaving it
on the sheep’s back. More work, more wool, and less trouble go hand in hand with
THE LISTER HANDPIECE.
Price 2 Years Ago: £4/4/- Price a Year Ago: £4/4/- Price To-day: £4/4/
And 20 Years ’ Service in Every Shear.
J o
w
iiiijjji
Have YOU sent us your Repairs?
THE NEXT BEST to having new Lister Shears is having your repairs executed in our workshops under
expert supervision. We are already busy with repairs sent in by sheepmen who know the cost of delay
at shearing time.
You too should look ahead and get your repairs done in time to avoid the risk of delays by strikes or
other unforeseen causes. This means. send them NOW—TO-DAY.
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO. LTD., 9-13 Young' Street, Sydney.
You will
find
CHAMPION TAR BOILERS
STiSETSS
The CHAMPION Hand-drawn
Tar Boiler. Model 3.
Fitted with Cock for
Bucket Work, Tar Strainer,
Gravitation Spreading
Trailer, Pressure Hand
Scythe Spray.
A
< l ,' ‘ <*■ -1
Details of illustrations are not binding, as improvements in design are
sometimes made before new illustrations can be prepared and published.
STANDARD SIZES AND CAPACITIES OF MODEL 3.
A furnace scraper and a cock turnkey are provided.
Model No. 8 is made in two sizes.
Size I—capacity 200 gals.
Size 2—capacity 250 gals.
Simplicity, strength and ease of operation are the three
features which mark every Champion implement.
And they are most marked in CHAMPION TAR BOILERS.
Their strength is undoubted and is obtained by the weight
and quality of materials and by the scientific use of those
materials.
Champion Tar Boilers are built upon the idea that quality
must be maintained regardless of any other consideration.
Their thoroughness of construction means increased dura-
bility from the boilers which more than repays the purchaser
for the slightly higher first cost.
Then you have a more efficiently designed boiler (made in
Australia to suit local conditions), which has oval bottom
and convex top to provide maximum heating surface whilst
the sides of the boiler are wholly protected by the casing.
Then again boilers are provided with air vents on top to
release the vapor and reduce any tendency of the tar boiling
over.
Quite a number of other desir-
able features are incorporated in
the Champion Tar Boiler which
may be had in Hand-drawn,
Horse-drawn, or Motor-drawn
Styles. You will find the full
facts in our Free Booklet No. «>,
which contains valuable infor-
mation.
The CHAMPION HORSE-
DRAWN TAR CART.
Model 8.
ď
British Australian Machinery Co. Ltd.
Wynyard Street, Sydney. Union Bank Chambers, Brisbane.
i
Collins House, Melbourne


s ss
j
CIWiNI
lil
a
W<
Q
a
is©*?-*
» ,5
:
••Inllsils
Sfe.4 V
S-.BJ
r
i »v § r
□
r'
/X-v
n
j
:
s
;V
V‘-%
m
fm.
£7
■6
/:•■/#
;’• ■';!
. ■ -••■m
■* .. -s»
-T:
’ 111
THERE is a vital reason for
the ever-growing demand
for TEXACO Motor Oils
in every part of the world.
TEXACO Motor Oils are non-
carbonizing a tremendous
money saving feature —and one
test will quickly prove it to you.
It’s an easy matter to get the right oil
for your car or motor truck by using
TEXACO. If you re having carbon
trouble, TEXACO will quickly stop it.
Ask for TEXACO every time.
TEXACO
: ■ '
REG -S
trademark
THE TEXAS COMPANY (Australasia) LTD,
SYDNEY MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, PERTH, LAUNCESTON
And HARRIS SCARFE & CO. LTD., ADELAIDE.
Petrol Motor Oik, Greases, Industrial Lubricants, Marine Oils, Kerosene
Roofing and Road Asphalt, etc.
Hose of Luxite
is made in your favorite
material and shades.
The demand for Luxite
Hosiery has invited sub-
stitutes ; so please look
for the Trade Mark on
each pair.
One pair of Luxite will
outwear two pairs of
many kinds. Thousands
of wearers know that
this is true.
If your dealer is unable
to supply you , write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
50 York Street :: SYDNEY.
bEVHORROCKSt S’HORROCKSES HORROCKSES
THE. WORLDS
BEST VALUE
A3**
High-speed Sensitive Drilling Machines.
I . »
If *■
/ , J
if /
SINGLE SPINDLE.
Class K. Patent High Speed, Ball Bearing Drilling
Machines, Sin. Overhang, Single Spindle with Ball Bear-
ings throughout. The Pillars are raised and Bases
lowered to produce a perfect balanced design. Spindle
Pulley Ball Bearing at top and bottom ends. Two-
stepped Pulley on Driving Shaft; and Two-stepped
Pulley on Spindle, giving four speeds, namely, 600, 900,
3370 and 2025 R.P.M. Hand Wheel for securing Belt
Tension, Depth Stop attached to Rack. Complete with
Fast and Loose Pulleys. Patented Belt-shifting device,
Pump, Tank and Fittings, also Slotted Sub-table. Drills
to centre of 16in. circle and drives up to fin. drill.
i w
■
. /
DOUBLE SPINDLE.
Class It. Patent High Speed, Ball Bearing Drilling
Machines, Sin. Overnang, 2-Spindle (illustration shows
3-Spindle Machine), with Ball Bearings throughout. The
Pillars are raised and Bases lowered to produce a perfect
balanced design. Spindle Pulley Ball Bearing at top and
bottom ends. Two-stepped Pulley on Driving Shaft, and
Two-stepped Pulley on Spindle, giving four speeds, namely,
600, 900, 1370 and 2025 It.P.M. Hand Wheel for
securing Belt Tension, Depth Stop attached to Rack.
Complete with Past and Loose Pulleys. Patented Belt-
shifting device, Pump, Tank and Fittings, also Sic'•ted
Sub-table. Distance between centres of spindles 7in., and
with drive up to fin. drills.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY FROM STOCK.
BENSON BROTHERS LTD.
76-78 Liverpool Street, Sydney. 71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
C 271
THE POET’S DILEMMA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As an outcome ot the exchange position, Euro-
pean communities are reverting to barter.— C'abk.
I took an ode to butcher Jones.
With famished
I said: “Produce a piece of steak
And I will pay with this.”
He did not swear, he did not shout;
He simply asked me to get out.
I tried a baker with the work,
Suggesting that for bread
I would supply his shop with odes,
Pure white, or passion-red,
Daily or weekly as required.
“Get out!” he shouted. I retired.
I offered in exchange for beer
Two sonnets, each a gem.
The barmaid gave them back to me.
“We have no use for them,”
She said. The publican appeared.
“Get out!” he cried. I promptly cleared.
If food-retailers spurn the Muse,
While poets still must eat,
What is the common trading-ground
On which the two may meet?
Must traders study Culture’s tricks?
Or poets become Bolsheviks?
N.S.W.
J. B. D.
Fred. Whitehead, who succeeds P. J. Ren-
nett as president of the A.J.A., is first
assistant sub. of Melbourne Herald. He
served at the front, and returned to duty
unscathed, six months ago.
The tripper now does the battlefields of
Flanders and France as a matter of course.
A half-crown guidebook is already out, by
Capt. Fleming, pointing out all' the best
restaurants and cemeteries, and pleasantly
patronising scenes of carnage with such
hints as “It would be a pity to leave the
district without paying- a visit to the famous
Vimy Ridge.”
At the Back to Ivyneton (Vie.) corroboree
Charles E. Armstrong, 84, in responding to
the toast of the pioneers, mentioned that the
fingers and toes of his children, grand-
children and great grand-children numbered
1,260 and that neither boot nor glove manu-
facturers were paying him a bonus. Seven
of his descendants went on active service
and all returned, with only one wound
among the party. He concluded his speech
by singing “Ben Bolt,” and everybody
reckoned he had done pretty well.
The election of Payne to a Senate seat
left a vacancy in the Tasmanian State As-
sembly. This, on a re-examination of the
ballot papers used at last State general elec-
tion, goes to Pollard, who thus slips back
in his old seat for Darwin division after
a six-months’ interregnum. Labor-leader
Lyons, who, like Payne, resigned his As-
sembly seat to have an unsuccessful fly for
a Federal perch, is, of course, entitled to
resume his old job as one of the six State
members for Wilmot division. Loone,
M.L.C., who was in the Nationalist team
for the Senate, also climbs back to his Leg.
Council roost without let or hindrance.
Victorian A.N.A. men are better pleased
now that George Wise has a real portfolio
in the Hughes Government. They thought
lie was too lowly placed as. an honorary.
Wise was a chieftain in the Natives’ Associ-
ation long before Watt was heard of; yet
Watt became P.M.G. of Vic. 20 years ago.
No Premier or Prime Minister ever dared
offer Watt honorary office. It was while he
was Vic. P.M.G. that, after looking round,
he concluded that Australians would rather
lean against a post-office than a post any
day. Wise will be a proud man in March
when, as a fully-fledged Federal Minister, he
will be able to welcome fellow-natives to his
own town of Sale, where this year they hold
their annual corroboree.
When J. L. Purves went west George
Wise, the new P.M.G., succeeded him as
the autocrat of the A.N.A. Wise has domi-
nated, and, on the whole, dominated judi-
ciously, many conferences. He was good
at rallying speeches, and at Bairnsdale IT
years ago snatched victory from the jaws of
defeat when Herbert Brookes (son-in-law of
Deakin) tabled a motion slating the directors
for not raising their voices in protest against
the introduction of Chinese labor into S.
African gold mines after Australian soldiers
had helped to establish British rule. At
another conference, when Wise was lec-
turing the delegates, one interjected depre-
cating his tone. Wise replied that he would
not be bullied, which was pretty cool seeing
that he had been busy bullying 200 men for
10 minutes.
Adelaide Criminal Court has had to decide
the always difficult question of what to do
with a man who, having a first fight thrust
upon him and getting hammered, resorts to
a more deadly weapon. Mooney and his wife
called at Hooper’s house. Mooney began
with “Are you willing to keep this woman?"
and (to her) “Will you have him or me?"
Presently they were hard at in the back
yard, and Hooper, getting the worst of it,
picked up the axe, with fatal results. Judge
Gordon laid down the doctrine, which is
sound law, but unpopular in practice, that
Hooper could have escaped well enough by
running away. Mooney had struck first
blow, but “had gone to see Hooper for a
very proper reason.” The jury called it
manslaughter. The Judge called it five years.
“Good Australian”: The P. and 0. Co.
is forming a £5,000,000 bank to do business
in ports where its steamers trade. This
country is already overbanked, and does not
need a new co. to compete with the Com-
monwealth’s own bank and tile joint stock
banks whose shares are largely held by Aus-
tralians. There are far too many banks
already. Take Ballarat: it has 10 of them,
costing at least £15,000 yearly for salaries
and expenses, and handling £8,000,000 of
deposits. Could not five banks —nay, could
not two—do the whole of Ballarat’s busi-
ness with ease? More banking amalgama-
tions would be better for the banks and in-
finitely better for the bank officials. -He
P. and O. Co. cannot benefit Australia by
adding to an already over-costly superfluity:
it will merely pick up local profits ngbtb
belonging to local people. Now, if the
P. and O. Co. wants to do Australia a good
turn, it might invest its proposed banking
capital in shipbuilding yards and floatui-
docks at the chief ports. That is a business
which is not overcrowded.


d
Dddgeßrothers
MOTOR CAR
With Dodge Brothers, building motor cars is a serious
business —Each and every Dodge Brothers Motor
Car is worthy of the very best they can give it.
They look upon every sale as a binding business agree-
ment to deliver certain definite results to the buyer.
That this policy has attracted to this car the sub-
stantial and serious-minded buyers of the world is a
great source of satisfaction to them.
It is further assurance, too, if any were needed, that
the quality of the car will steadily improve.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
Dodge Brothers
Canada Cycle & Motor Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Standardised Motors, Limited,
Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co., Ltd.,
Brisbane.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
Cheney Motor Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centura *«.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Bools
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.,
& GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, England!
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
A LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
JrL should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
wffiere they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Sr
-
M
I
1
■I
Shaving: with
The “PLUM
jj
RAZOR
Is a pleasure you’ll anticipate.
This noted Razor is no new invention.
For many years it has maintained its
supremacy through sheer consistency of
merit.
The “Plum” requires but little strop-
ping, as its finely tempered edge keeps
keen against the strongest beard, and
gives that smooth, velvety shave which
every man appreciates. Thousands of
“Plum” Razors are sold annually.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of
charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
'’air in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strops, 7/6 and 10/6 each.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2.
All the above Post Free.
SAFETY
RAZORS.
“Army and Navy” Safety Razors, with Strop, 12/6 each.
Ditto, in Nickel Case (flat), suitable for travelling, 15/6.
The “Army and Navy” Razor has our fullest recommendation.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
%
'ili-rn, :
walk
w
J
Control Your Memory by the
ROTH METHOD
During last year in England 150,000 people took
the course.
Don’t grope around in the dark any longer. Control your memory
and see instantly everything you want to remember.
Do you want to be further advanced? Why not then train YOUR
MEMORY in the right way. It is so easy, give it a trial.
You can learn the secret in one evening. Your ability to remember
will attract your employer’s attention and promotion will follow
promotion thereby
Doubling and Trebling Your Salary.
Remit 42/- to the Standard Art Book Co., Ltd., 29 Woolbrokers
Chambers, Young Street, Sydney, and the SEVEN BOOKS, com-
prising ROTH’S MEMORY COURSE will be forwarded you post free.
sdfsdf
ll* f On Water Supply
‘ and Irrigation.
We have a Large 8 Varied Stock of Pumping Machinery.
Consult
Some Specialities of our own make are:—
Hercules Windmills. 1.8. C. Walking Beam Pumping
Plants.
Hercules Oil Engines. 1.8. C. Centrifugal Pumps.
Hercules Boring Plants. Brass Artesian and Deep-
Well Pump Cylinders.
Syphon Windmill Pumps. Pump Bods; Drive Well
Points.
Sheep and Cattle Troughing., and Water-raising
Appliances of all kinds.
sd
We have also good stocks of Ball Valves, Foot Valves, Water Fittings; “National” Pipe,
Black, Galvanised and Steam; “National” Black and Galvanised Casing (the World’s
Standard). ____
fsd
Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd.
Merchants, Engineers & Contractors,
418-424 8 450-460 Aim Street,
sxr" Pc,tie ’ s Bi * ht -
Works: Yeerong-pilly.
u
[3
Motor Show.
AN ATTRACTIVE
EXHIBIT.
The Standardised Motors, Limit..d, are
certainly to be commended for their artistD
display on Stand Xo. 20 at the recent
Motor Show held in Sydney under the
auspices of the New South Wales Motor
Traders’ Association.
To assure the Public securing a good
view of their models they arranged for a
large amount of floor space, on which was
displayed a stripped Chassis, an Imported
Touring Model embodying many attractive
features, whilst the third Model was fitted
with an Australian Touring Body with nickel
fittings and trimmed and finished in an
attractive shade of grey.
The floor coverings and other furnishings
on the stand were all carried out to a set
color scheme, which together with the
machines exhibited made for an exception-
ally happy, result.
The Standardised Motors, Limited, are
very keen on carrying out Messrs. Dodge
Brothers’ Policy in respect to Standardisa-
tion. whilst their Sales Policy follows closely
along the lines recommended by their prin-
cipals.
With respect to Body Work—Arrange-
ments have been made for Australian Bodies
designed not only for appearance but for
comfort. These bodies are all standardised,
and are trimmed with Grey leather and
painted and finished with an attractive shade
of the same color! Buyers also have the
choice of body work turned out in America,
and recent examples just to hand would
indicate that a number of important im-
provements have been made principally in
the matter of trimming and in the width and
depth of the seats.
T' e Standardised Motors, Limited, were
only appointed Dealers for Dodge Brothers
Motor Cars in August last, but we gather
from Mr. Kloster, the Managing Director,
that their efforts to date have met with ex-
ceptionally satisfactory results. Their
activities in connection with sales have been
amply supported by Messrs. Dodge Brothers
in shipments from the factory, with the re-
sult that comparatively early delivery can
be quoted.
The new Dealers are determined to give
satisfaction to buyer’s of Dodge Brothers
Cars, not only in the way the cars are
turned out for delivery, but in subsequent
attention to buyers. In the latter connec-
tion they are steadily developing a Service
programme in which they will be supported
by the various Associate Dealers appointed
by them in the State of New South Wales.


CUTICURA
BEFORE USING CUTICURA
SOAP
AFTER USING CUTICURA
and Ointment
Quickly soothe and heal
eczemas, rashes, itchings
and burnings of the skin.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
*'R. Town* & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.” Sold
by dealers throughout the world.
SiAwr/ie^
IMPORT
wm
Fence
USE
warataiT
FENCING WIRE.
It is Australian,
costs less, and
stands greater
strain that imported
wires.
Get Booklet N. 19.
AUSTRAL NAIL CO. PTY. LTD.,
Manufacturers’ Buildings,
304-316 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE.
Wire Mills at Newcastle, N.S.IV
HEALTH CAMPAIGN
ia the most important of all.
It is the most vital safeguard
for your family and home.
Protect Your Own Health.
Keep your children in good
physical condition. You
cannot fox - esee sickness, but
you can provide against it.
The
Montgomerie - Neilson
Oxidising Sewage
Disposal System
Gives to country homes all the
modern sanitary comfort and conveni-
ence of sewered towns, doing away
with all chance of disease dissemi-
nated by the old-fashioned outhouse,
the . insanitary, filthy cesspool, and
septic tanks generally.
There is absolutely no smell with
this system. The cost of installation
is not heavy, and when you consider
that '6OO are in use in New South
Wales alone, you Avill realise that the
system is worth looking into.
You can obtain a free booklet tell-
ing of the many merits of the M.-N.
System. It also gives splendid tes-
timonials from satisfied users the
country over —facts that should weigh
heavily with you.
Send for free copy to-day.
Montgomerie - Neilson
Oxidising Sewage Disposal,
50 Young Street, SYDNEY.
87 Phillip Street, SYDNEY.
’Phone: City 8976.
WAITING!
There is nothing so trying for a %oman
these days as waiting —always waiting.
It needs a steady nerve and a strong heart to
carry on —do the day’s work with a cheerful face,
and have a smile handy.
Give yourself a chance to do this by keeping
fit -a tonic that really helps is
Dhosformo
1 THE ROYAL IUNC
This is a nerve and cell food and strengthener
that is helping many folk over the worries, work
and waiting that the world is going through now.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton &C Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
s
/
<c a
/
V
s
%
n
gr.
m
»iiw
' /
/
V
\
is
s
Shirts
9<?e this brand
on each Shirh
—are unmatched by any other Shirts made,
and are specially favored by exacting men.
Perfect in fit; full cut shoulders; no binding across
the chest or at the armholes ; and just the right
sleeve lengths.
Thistle Shirts are made in Australia, and are obtainable at all
Leading Shirt Departments. There are Thistle Shirts for all
occasions : Business or Recreation, Dress or Sports.
Ask also for THISTLE PYJAMAS.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS LTD.,
Makers, BRISBANE and SYDNEY. AS 3
Men’s Stout 7/6
„ Ligh' 6/-
Ladies’ - - 4/-
Soles and Heels),
per set.
Men’s Stout 2/6
.. Light 2'*
Ladies' - 1/3
(Heels only
per pair
FRQM ALL
BOOTMEN.
Manufacturers —
PHILLIPS'
PATENTS Ltd.,
London , Eng.
THIN Rubber plates, with raised studs,
to be attached on top of ordinary soles and
heels, giving complete protection from wear.
SOLES AND HEELS
make one pair of boots
last the time of three
THEY impart smoothness to the tread,
TU give grip, and prevent slipping. Keep
feet dry in wet weather. Ideal for golf.
Fortify
your
Boots!
As worn by
thousands _ of
Au ttr ali an
Officers and
Men Overseas.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS;—
N.S. WALES AND QUEENSLAND, G WILLIAMSON, 46, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA, J. M ROHAN, 262, Post Office Place, Melbourne.
S. & w. AUSTRALIA, C. M. RANSFORD, 22, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
“Ivyalite”: Hamilton (Western Vic.) had
a painter in a big way named White. Three
of his employees were named Black, Brown
and Scarlett.
Adelaide is a careful soul. Having for the
first time the experience oif having its whisky
measured into the glass, it finds with sur-
prise that the prescribed nobbier is bigger
than it has been in the habit of helping it-
self to. So it is putting in a plea for a
nobbier in two sizes—one the old dose at
6d.; the other the new regulation nine-
penn’orth.
J. B. Ronald, “the Honorable and Rever-
end,” as he describes himself, is haunting
St. James’s Court praying to have his case
against Robert Harper reviewed Iby tbja
Privy Council. As Harper is dead and his
estate distributed it will be handy if there
is an old Chancery judge on the Council,
supposing the case ever gets there, to suggest
a method of disentanglement.
Joseph Sylvester O’Halloran, ex-sec. of
the Royal Colonial Institute in London, who
died a few days back, was born in Adelaide
78 years ago. He was a son of Major
O’Halloran, who had a hill to the south of
the city named after him. The son had many
official jobs, one of his last in Australia being
private sec. to Governor Fergusson. In 1881
he became assistant-sec. to the Colonial
Institute, and from 1884 till 1909 was in
charge of the White Elephant.
Old Captain Charles, M.L.C., had a yarn
that when he first arrived in Sydney he
unintentionally disturbed two boys who were
playing marbles. The boys accepted his
apology for kicking their tors and thus he
got to know them. One became the bush-
ranger Frank Gardiner; the other was Wil-
liam Bede Dailey, who many years later
defended his old playmate when he was
charged with the Eugowra escort robbery.
It is comforting to Vic. people to find
that their Supreme Court judges are so
prudential . . three of them indicated re-
cently. Irvin t Hood and the newly-wigged
McArthur all stated that they were policy-
holders in a life assurance society which
was a party in a case mentioned in the Full
Court and could not therefore adjudicate.
The Judges’ Pensions Law Declaratory Bill,
which was brought on last session, was
dropped just before the close, and doubt still
remains whether it is lawful to pay more
than £4OOO at any one time to retired jus-
tices.
The appointment of H. E. Starke as a
High Court Judge has brought about a
peculiar position a.s regards the waterside
workers’ case. An appeal was made from
the Arbitration Court to the High Court
on the question of whether arbitration
awards can be made retrospective, and, Bar-
ton having gone west, the Bench of six
Judges was evenly divided, so it was
announced that the question would have to
be argued again when a seventh Judge was
appointed. Starke, whose judgment will now
decide the matter, was counsel for the Com-
monweath when the case was last before the
High Court.
Without H. E. Carey’s notable letter to
Dr. Gilruth, which went astray before it
reached the Post Office, and was found on
his door-step by Harold Nelson, secretary of
the Darwin branch of the A.W.U., Judge
Ewing would never have been set to inquire
into the affairs of the Northern Territory,
and the public of Australia would have
missed some very interesting bits of history.
It was a good hit when Norman Barratt,
who is appearing for the Darwin citizens,
quoted the words of old Omar: —•
The moving finger writes and, having writ,
Moves on; not all your piety or wit
Shall lure it back to cancel half a line,
Nor all your tears wash out a word of it.
“Lou”: Cuthbert Butler, Labor member
for Lockyer (Q.), who has told his consti-
tuents that he is giving it best, is an Eng-
lishman, and was for some years private sec-
retary to a peer. In Australia he donned
the sad black coat and worked for the Lord
at Bathurst and Singleton (N.S.W.), and
later on at several churches around Bris-
bane. He did them all good. In Banana-
land he was organising secretary for the
Anti campaign, wrote a bit for was
for some time librarian at Brisbane Museum,
had a dash for Federal politics, and at the
last State elections won Lockyer for Labor
—till then it had been thought hopeless.
Now he has bought a snug little fruit farm
at Elimbah, North Coast line, and intends
to get to honest work.
“Crabtree”: The human shark sees in the
work of the Repat. the chance of a bite or
two. As an example of the sort of thing
the officials have to watch, a simple-minded
ex-Digger last month handed in the letter
and invoices of a firm which offered to em-
ploy him as a “canvasser and assistant
traveller” if he provided himself with certain
goods. The goods consisted of a suitcase and
£7 10s. worth of trifles, which the firm wanted
the ex-Digger to sell. No salary was men-
tioned ; and as the man who is once supplied
with “tools of trade” is considered to be
repatriated, this simple Digger was being
asked to sell his repatriation rights for a
mess of cheap-jack goods which he would
have to dispose of laboriously on a commis-
sion basis.
“Y 1395”: The habit of carefulness clings
to some people with splendid persistency.
The Sydney police came across a bundle of
garments and a note announcing an intention
to suicide in Blackwattle Bay. The lady had
hated to spoil her good shoes and stockings;
so she had removed them first. A man who
committed suicide a few months ago haggled
quite a long time with a second-hand dealer
over the price of the revolver with which
he did the deed, although,' when found, he
had still a fair sum of money in his pocket.
Another man, who was saved from a damp
end by a citizen with a kind word and a
whisky-flask, attracted the citizen’s atten-
tion when, with the worthy purpose of keep-
ing his clothes from getting stained by salt-
water, he started to remove them before
plunging into the unknown. Suiciding is a
messy business and is usually an evidence
of an untidy life; but the lady who does
not want to wet her stockings when she
plunges into the water, and the man who
remembers how the price of suits has gone
up, are suicides because they fail to realise
that the act itself is sloppy and wasteful. ;


Stop Torturing
Toothache Quickly.
Stopain Toothache Gum
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tooth.
Don’t put up with toothache a minute. You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece of Stopain
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around the
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic.
u
Let STOPAIN Stop That Boring Pain.
It fills up the cavity, excluding the air, and
stopping the mouth acids from acting on the
frantic, jumping nerve; hardens
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—until you are ready to have a per-
manent filling put in.
Why punish yourself ? Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
Stopain Toothache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies.
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
520-528 Riley Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Drives Away
Corns Quickly.
At last a real ‘ does what it says ’ Corn Cure;
nothing like it or just -s good has ever been
known.
Every man or woman who has corns, warts
or bunions ought to try Handy Corn Cure at
once and see how marvellously it works. Quit
shaving your corn with a razor. You may draw
blood and cause blood-poisoning.
m
fd
Handy Corn Cure will get rid of every corn
you have got without pain or discomfort.
Handy Corn Cure is remarkable because it
never irritates or turns the true flesh sore or
raw. It can’t—it’s that antiseptic, safe and
harmless. The corn shrivels up and comes out.
!/*■ Per Box everywhere. Posted free by
Sunset Drug Co., 520-528 Riley-st., Sydney.
j'd'y
u
a
-J
5
LivEiMMPn Pictures
by —
CMAMPEPLWh'S
Tablets -
A'\>>
x' \
A\-
m
--- &
pj
- " / ///
—i «
I. J /
That tired, don’t care sort of feeling is Nature’s
warning to you that your liver is out of order.
Why suffer the misery and agony
that comes from your liver being out of
order ?
Why try to bear up in belief that
you will be right in a day or two —you
are only neglecting Nature’s warning.
What you need is medicine.
The sooner you commence to take
Chamberlain’s Tablets for the Stomach
and Liver the better it will be for you.
You can’t afford to fool with your
liver, and you certainly can’t afford to
be without this great remedy if your
liver is out of order.
Don’t delay—get a box to-day.
They will brace up your nerves,
prevent despondency, invigorate the
whole system, and both you and your
liver will be better “ livers.”
They are an ideal medicine for old
and young.
For biliousness, constipation, belching,
gas on the stomach, foul breath, head-
ache, bloating, etc., nothing equals
Chamberlains Tablets
jfor the Stomach & Livep.
Diarrhoea.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
fatal to young and old. The great danger in
this disease is due to the frequent lack of
proper treatment in the first stages. Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is a reliable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, and
is pleasant to take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness of the bowels will
save suffering and anxiety—and loss of both
ime and money.
Take It With You.
The importance of having a bottle of Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy w .h
them is realised by experienced travellers, as
this medicine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet often
deranges the stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should be taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel, trouble nearly always come on suddenly
and when this remedy is at hand all danger
pray be avoided.
Be Firm.
When you ask for a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be per-
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there is nothing so good. This
medicine has been tested in the most severe
cases of cramp, colic, dysentery and diarrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. “ Can be
depended upon” is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain’s Colic anu
Diarrhoea Remedy. One bottle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
Eever fails to give immediate and permanent
relief.
Now on sale everywhere!
Messrs. Benger’s Food Ltd. are able to announce that
supplies of Benger’s Food should now be readily obtainable
throughout Australasia.
Should any consumer find difficulty in obtaining
Benger’s Food, communications addressed to the Sydney
office will receive prompt attention.
fd
Food
is for INFANTS, INVALIDS and the AGED.
, 35 years’ use by the Medical Profession, it has
fulfilled every claim made for it.
Booklet and full particulars post free from:
Branch o^Tcf 170 ' ; Manchester, England.
bkawlh OFFICE. xi 7 , Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at New York (U.S.A.) 93, Beekman Street. Depots throughout Canada.
pcnsjandcaii^.
To the Tourist, Scientist, Investor
and, with a hundred voices from her millions
of acres, to the Man in search of Land.
Free Information on all subjects
available at once on receipt of this coupon.
Name -
Address_____ .
Queensland Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Brisbane. ~ '
S.B.
lIIIIIIIIIIIIP
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiimiiiiir
&
ssus
Waterman’s
(Ideal)
Founta!iriPen
A ND not for one moment will your thoughts be
interrupted by the idiosyncrasies of the pen
assuming you are using the World-famous Waterman’s
Ideal. Perfectly it writes and continues to write, as long
as the hand guides it. No spluttering, no need for
coaxing, just plain straightforward attention to duty.
Isn’t it time you had a Waterman’s Ideal?
Three Types: “Pocket Self-Filling,” “Safety,” and “Regular.”
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan, Ltd., Opjjkn. Corner London, England.
Australia: Harold D. Dixon, 105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
SAFEGUARD YOUR HEALTH
ntJ.Collis Browne’s
CWorodjwe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS und
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery
01 all Chemists. Prices in England, 2/3, 3/-, 5/
Made in England.


CHUNDER, BEAR AND DOG HIGH-DIVING,
2k
SI
>ll
m
m
sr.
m:
jsra?
.
m
Us
m/.
m.
yi
Sili
jgp s?'!
m
:-
»A\
-'.y
W. «
n
i&r?
;
SS/x\
tm&M
Wsgj
wmt
mmmi
£i-2*
sk
Si
mm
mgm
wfk
ri,
. &
//ym.
:Js
** i
®SS
■m
rV.
■
m
r A
v.
&
i
Mi#
\ j
Cobrft,* Tsho. Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Takes a header
For the blue.
Dog and Bear
Leap into space;
Down they come
At swallow pace.
Splash! The Divers
Disappear!. . .
Through the baths
Their laughter clear
Rings when they
Bob up and say,
“Quick and clean!
The ‘COBRA’ way


Do You Appreciate
Exclusive Ties?
UNIQUE DISPLAY NOW SHOWING.
A MAN’S tastes and character-
istics are invariably re-
flected in his Neckwear.
The selection of a suitable style is
made easy by choosing your
requirements at David Jones’. A
unique display of all that is
newest is now showing in depart-
ment. Prices have been strictly
maintained on a conservative
basis. The necessity for present-
day economy has been recognised.
Examples of the artistry of the
world’s leading tie silk designers
and craftsmen are available in
profusion. Colorings are per-
fectly conceived and as perfectly
executed. Patterns graduate from
the small and unassuming to the
bold and vigorous. Every type
of personality can be suited.
Kingsway Ties, 3/6.
Better Qualities, 4/6, 7/6, 8/6 & 10/6
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
1
i
David c/ones
Opp. G. P. O.
for Service
SYDN EY
Tel. City 6336.
l
DAMKS
i.n
will
sya
Honk!
Honk!
Something to Your Advantage, Mr. Motorist.
This Klaxon of value, utility, convenience and economy in motor accessories is sounded for
you. These accessories embody much that is best in motor skill and good material. They
are from standard makers, whose name is their recommendation. They hold the motor
front on these good qualities. Unnecessary S.O.S.’s for increased charges or faulty work-
mans'. p are never sent up. Isn’t there something in this list or in our motor accessories
depart :nent which will make your car more serviceable, comfortable, economical, or easier
to manipulate? Come in and see us for Motor Accessory knowledge, or write. Here are a
few lines which leave been much in request lately by Garages and Car owners.
DUCO GAITERS SAVE SPRING FRACTURES.
Easily fixed, exclude dust, grit and moisture, lu rieate the springs
and keep them up to touring pitch. For the following cars o :
6-Cylinder Buick. .£6 17 6 83 Overland ..£0 9 0
Ford .. ..3 3 0 75 Overland .. 7 10 0
Dodge .. 9 0 0
SIOUX HIGH-COMPRESSION RINGS.
Ensure perfect compression in the cylinder, one size only. For
Fords, 3if x Jin. One ring to each cylinder, 6/- each.
HOWE ELECTRIC SPOT LIGHTS.
Easily fitted, swivel jointed, throw a light at any angle or backward.
37/6; Vesta. 45/-
JOHNSON’S CEMENT FOR RADIATOR LEAKS.
Remove the cap of the Radiator and pour some in. It finds the
leak and stops it. Per tin, 3
STOP-SQUEAK OIL.
For Spring, Body and all other squeaks. Removes rust from Springs
and makes them pliable. Small tins, 1/9; Large, 2/9.
Sponges for washing down, from 1/9 to o/- each.
THE MARA EL VALVE GRINDER.
Grinds loose valves tight, easy to use, 17/6.
Goggles, in comfortable shapes for eye ease. Per pair, 1/9 to 5/-
Goggles, for oxy-aeetylene welding. Per pair, 7/6.
Automatic Respirator and Smoke Protector; good for wearing
near emery wheels. Protects the throat and lungs. 9/6.
BREAKNOT BATTERY TESTER.
A long-wearing hydrometer for testing electrically-equipped cars. 6/-
BULL-DOG GRIP TUBE REPAIRER.
Repairs quickly and permanently. The patch does not creep or
pull away. Nearly as good as vulcanising. Three sizes:—
2/6, 5/6, 7/6.
Electric Tail Light for Fords, with switch and wire. 21 /-
Klaxon Horns and other makes from 16/6 to 30/-
HYKLEAN.
The universal cleanser, cleans everything from grimy hands to
greasy overalls. The large tin contains Soz. more than similar
preparations on the market sold at a higher price. Per tin, 10(1.
Specially low price to garages, stores and workshops. Write for
quotes and sample.
AUTOMOBILE ENAMEL—Paint Your Own Car.
A mixed color and varnish preparation, ready mixed for the man
who likes to paint his own car. One pint will give a 5-seater one
coat at a cost of 6/6.
In onc-pint cans in the following shades and pric
Cream .. .. 5/6 Auto Red
Grey .. .. .. 6/6 Carmine
Golden Brown.. .. 6/6 Dark Blue
Primrose, Yellow .. 6/6 Maroon
8/-
8/-
8/-
8/-
BLACK-LAC FOR HOODS AND METAL WORK.
Black-Lac renovates Hoods, Curtains, Auto-trunks, Pantosote and
Mohair Tops and Linings, as well as Fenders, Running Boards,
Radiators, Lamps and all worn metal parts. Easily applied, it
dries in fifteen minutes; permanent, waterproof. In tins. 3/6 & 7 /0.
TIRENU, THE RUBBER PAINT FOR TYRES.
Tirenu is a rubber paint for tyres. It keeps water out of cuts,
dries instantly and gives the car that “well-looked after” appearance.
Per lOoz. tin, 3/3.
GASKETS.
Cylinder Head Gaskets. Fords, 2/4 each.
Cylinder Head. Super-six Hudson, 7/9 each.
QUIXIE CLEANING CLOTHS for a Quick Polish.
They are impregnated with polishing chemical, which lasts till
the cloth wears out. One for metal-work and one for nickel-plated,
work, 1/- each.
Weed Chain Jacks, 35/-. Lanes’ Popular Jack, 21/-
The Zeno More-Air Attachment gives more air, less petrol, saves
brakes and tyres, and prevents carbon. 21/-
SPARKING PLUGS.
By standard makers, who embody electrical and mechanical
with the best material. These
eous combustion and reliability.
LODGE 63 AFA .. 5/6
LODGE CT3 J Alam. . 6/6
skill
APOLLO 30 . .
APOLLO * IS
APOLLO Metric
SPINX 811 MET.
5/6
5/6
5/6
4/6
A C PLUGS IN VARIOUS SIZES.
MAYO SKINNER PUMPS, for rough usage and big volume of air
Hand Pumps, 8/6, 14/6. Compound Hand Pumps, 32/6.
Engine Impulse Pump, £3/15/-
TURNER’S ALL-BRITISH QUADRUPLE HAND PUMP, £3/3/-
BRITISH ACCUMULATORS, 4v. 40amp., 55/-; Ov. OOantp., 75/-
MAYO AIR COMPRESSOR, with tank for Garages, £lB/10/-
STEEL BALLS FOR BEARINGS, and Copper Asbestos Washers in
a useful range of sijes.
SPECIAL PRICES TO GARAGES, CITY or COUNTRY.
lot us quote for your next Parcel of Accessories.
John Banks 8 Son Pty. Ltd.,
The House for Motor Accessories,
330 Pitt Street, Sydney; and
391 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
A Slight Coastal Disturbance.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.!
group of lights glittering on the
edge of the night was Lagos town,
a bitter place, evil in the eyes and
nose of God and man. Here one built rail-
ways into the interior in the faint hope of
one day hitting Rhodes’s Oape-to-Cairo
Main Line. And here one carried, for
£4OO a year and quarters, the burden of
civilisation and as much square-face as
was compatible with the dignity of the
burden—sometimes even a little more.
From the window of the office Bennett
could see the few gaunt trees in the com-
pound—sentinels outlined in hot grey
against the black, breathless wall of
the jungle. His lamp trailed faint lines
of light between him and the wall, under
the stars so ominously near. An army of
chirping insects yelled in a wild crescendo
which fell again to one or two weary voices
muttering in the tired oven of the world.
Languid speech drifted at long intervals
out of the dining-room, and the tinkle of
glasses. All the winged things that were
born hovered round the light in drowsy
helplessness; gross and swollen moths, cock-
roaches, mosquitoes, yellow-barred mes-
sengers of death or of malaria, which is
worse; great flies, grumbling and warning
with human Amices—all the beastlinesses that
hide from the African day and come out for
their carrion harvest under the pall of the
African night. Black and purposeless from
the windoAV to the ‘‘boys’ ” shack, the com-
pound stretched supine in unearthly heat —
impossible, annihilating heat.
Heat, motionless and implacable, sat in
dreary state on the verandah. Bennett
saw that the stars had gone. In the silence
a menace seemed to keep its own sinister
counsel, letting no man past a barrier of
fear. The cigarette felt soggy and wet in
a man’s fingers; the adding of e\ r en the
match-flame to the night was a Avanton in-
sult, and not worth it—the tobacco made
no impression on his parched throat and
mouth. All his old sins and creditors lurked
in the whisper of the feAV shadows that
stirred —-followed him through the night in
the rustle of the feAV twigs moved bA' some
restless beast behind the black wall. To-
night all the fairy tales might be true. The
tales of the sins Avhose steady footsteps came
back and back doAvn the years to their ven-
geance at the end ; the tales of growing old;
the tales the doctors told of the things suf-
fered in youth, things that arc dead for 20
years, lifting their heads again in middle
age—all these were certainties to-night.
Other yarns, too, of the spectres in the
paths of Halloween children —spectres of
the mind only, he knew; and yet—some-
thing is the seed of everything. The monks
couldn’t tell the people the stories for ever
without proof. Staring out over the SAVoon-
ing, useless compound, he knew that all
things were possible.
It was the heat; he kneAV that: the full,
heavy heat as still as death and yet rolling
ever to greater heat. The languid A r oices
in the dining-room greAV shrill and momen-
tarily angry, falling at once into a sullen
silence again—a square-face quarrel, no
doubt. Filthy things fIeAV into Bennett’s
face, leaAdng a mummy-dust of pollen on his
lips; the mosquitoes sang and stung. No-
thing but carrion and vermin breathed —
carrion and vermin. ShadoAvy hands crept
out of the black, embodied silence to touch
him, and fell back into their shadows in
fear —his eyes just missed each one as it
came and Avent.
A thin white line slipped viciously doAvu
the sky, hissing as it disappeared. Before
its impact upon Bennett’s consciousness
Avas gone, the night burst asunder in pri-
meA r al uproar. A vast, eternal noise
came pealing and crashing round the
wooden house Avhich seemed to sway
in the detonation’s displacement. The
thunder-clap had no reverberations, no
grumbling echoes flattening out into the dis-
tance. A prolonged crash leapt upon the
house, shook it in its teeth, and dropped it
into a sudden silence incredibly painful. For
a moment Bennett thought he was deaf in
the supernatural soundlessness —surely no-
thing would ever again penetrate this lethal
blackness. White and very shaky, he stood’
Avaiting for the rain, for a shout from the
“boys,” for more thunder —for anything that
could assure him that he Avas not perma-
nently deaf. But the moment stretched into
eternity and nothing came. The shack, the
dining-room, the office, the world stood still
in spee'chless dismay at the visitation that
had come and gone. Bennett was sure that
he was deaf, until a cry came from the
far heart of the jungle; and that sounded
like a ghost-voice, a dream. The bending of
the highest tree made the cry. Stretching
out over the black Avail, the thin cry
grew into a hurricane of tearing wind,
a wind that fled up into a cyclone, and
destroyed the beginning and the end of all
silence. As the wind sped over the com-
pound and the house, the night shouted back
to its own first darkness, calling and calling
through the aeons. Sound piled on thun-
derous sound until the ear could bear no
more. The falling trees, the tin roof strain-
ing at its nails, the “boys” yelling—all these
were whispers under the swelling tidal Avind
overhead, roaring out to sea.
Bennett stood on the groaning verandah
in the shelter of his office-door, Avondering
when the rain was coming and the rest of
that appalling thunder. He felt better. This
primordial hysteria was exciting. If it was
dangerous, it was alive, anyway, and much
better than that bestial breathless heat. But
no rain came and no more thunder. One
flash of lightning, one awful thunderclap and
a wind torn out of the boAvels of the jungle.
Bennett Avaited, still rather sick and anxious,
while the cyclone fell to one pealing note,
and from that to a gentle breeze bloAving
kindly through a sAveetened land out to a neAV
sea. But surely that Avasn’t all? This Avait-
ing Avas worse than the next upheaval, what-
ever it might be
The dining-room door opened. The resi-
dent engineer put out his head and grinned.
“Come and have one.” he said.
“I say, Davis, Avhere’s the rain?”
“Oh, don’t you know the ‘C.D.’ yet? The
jungle wind cuts in betAveen the splitting of
the cloud and the falling of the rain, and
carries the Avhole bag of tricks out to sea.
Near thing, isn’t it? ‘C.D.’ doesn’t often
cpme. but lie freshens things up Avhen he does.
Come and haA’e one before you turn in.”
DENIS MAHON.


■MI
v. °
fh'/k
>,-Jp/ «**
;....
mm
P
i
r
Utei
? s §
wfe®
JUir - «
. :
-v/i 2
J .~'.!
Sfpi I ®l ». I I 11
«
|sf|£*%4* «
. - '*
PS
N. 160
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Wessels”: Trepanging is booming just
now, and the Thursday Island boats are
making pots of momey. The best red fish
are worth up to £690 a ton: from that
prices run down to £l5O, according to
quality. The Barrier Reef is Australia’s
oldest trepang ground (the pioneer, James
Aickin, was after what he called Beechly-
Maa- on the southern end of it in 1804),
but it still yields a lot of stuff. A good
deal comes from the Gulf side of Cape York
Peninsula and. according to Thursday Island
gossip, the Maboon Mission Station down
that way does a fair trading business in
this line. There’s a bit got on the Northern
Territory coast, too, but not much. It is a
messy business, anyway. The trepang or
sea-slug is like a sausage, anything up to
•six feet long, filled with dirty water. After
it has been caught and cleaned it has to
be boiled and smoke-dried, and a trepang
camp in full blast smells worse than a
Royal Commission.
“Zanthus”: Down at the back of Braid-
wood (N.S.W.) some of them have dis-
covered that the leaves which have been
put through the distillery and had the euca-
lyntus oil pressed out of them—most of it
is used in metal-separation processes—need
not be wasted, as they make first-class man-
ure. They rot quickly and are good in
orchards. One distiller-cocky raises great
fruit on four acres of poor land liberally
manured with spent leaves.
“Cabbagee”: Like Tennyson’s “grand old
gardener,” a vegetable-selling Chinese who
keeps a shop at Balaclava (V.) smiles at
the claims of long descent —at any rate, in
the wav of business. His sign: “Established
yesterday.”
“Devilfish”: When the fishermen at Lakes
Entrance (Vic.) catch more than the market
will absorb at the moment, they know a
trick worth two of throwing-part of the take
away. They have several water paddocks
fenced in with palisading and wire-netting,
and they let the fish loose in there until they
want them. In good weather they make
tremendous hauls of sea-trout outside the
entrance, and by means of the paddocks they
hold part of the catch to supply the market
when bad weatner keeps them from fishing
outside. _ The trout seem to do very fairly
in captivity, even when a couple of acres
of water are pretty well packed with them.
* * * *
A cry from the dockyard:—
The Commonwealth pays its naval engineering
apprentices as little as 10s. a week; and this has
to cover fares not only to their work but to the
technical classes which they must attend. Were
they merely students one could understand the
pay; but they work alongside full-paid men, from
7.30 a.m. to 4.45 p.m., and in the last years of
apprenticeship they are the equals of many
mechanics. Apart from this niggardly treatment
it is a mistake to compel these boys to attend
the technical classes in the evenings. Many of
them would take, and ought to be encouraged to
take, the Uni. engineering course; but they are prac-
tically debarred from this through having to spend
their evenings with the quite-elementary technical
classes. The whole question of the engagement and
education of these future naval-shipbuilding ex-
perts of ours calls for the attention of the Minister.
“Nar” : Though I get all the comfort out
of a pipe that’s to be had, my particular
weed, known as King of Trumps, is a brand
which hardened smokers scorn as though it
were brown paper neat. Still it has a great
vogue and satisfies those whose stomachs
sour on strong mixtures and dark plug. My
tobacconist gave me the oil early about the
recent increases, and I gradually stocked up
51b. When the fatal day arrived, and
tobacco rose 2s. Bd. a lb., I found on inspect-
ing the published list that the only brand
which had suffered no impost was King of
Trumps. I turned to a pal for a word of
comfort. “Naturally,” he snarled, “the stuff
isn’t tobacco.”
“Flapper”: I applied for two positions as
attendant in dental “parlors” and on each
occasion was called to satisfy the missus as
well as the prospective boss. In my ignor-
ance I wore the new crepe de chine on the
first occasion and my services were not re-
quired. For the next inspection I wore last
year’s winter costume and came through
flying, gaining the coveted 255. a week for
the pleasure of reducing the symmetry of
my understandings by dashing to a distant
door 999 _ times a day. Any of the girls
explain it ?
* * * *
“137” : Somebody will die of these shoddy
Japanese measures. In one recent consign-
ment I found a 2oz. glass measure graduated
from five minims. The five minim mark was
below the inner bottom surface. None of
the marking lines were correct, and most
of them had an upward grade. Yet this rub-
bish was alleged to be officially certified!
“Croson”: Somebody is upset because we
are paying about 100 per cent, above N’Yark
prices for our motor-spirit, whether heavy,
medium or refined. If the Commonwealth’s
politicians had either patriotism or imag-
ination they would see that we paid 200 or
300 per cent, more by means of a tariff that
would compel us to use, not oil or petrol,
but the commercial alcohol, of which we
waste millions of gallons yearly. A Mel-
bourne firm years ago distilled this commo-
dity from grapes, which the grower was
satisfied to sell at 2s. 6d. a case. He is
getting less for first-class peaches to-day.
If he had a large demand for his second and
third-grade apples, pears, potatoes and grain
for distillation purposes, he would not only
be able to sell his best produce cheaper, but
also be better off. .and so would the thou-
sands who would prefer the cheap, safe, re-
liable commercial alcohol to the skittish,
expensive, imported Yankee spirit.
* * * *
“N-5-West”: “Friday Island” (B.
22/l/’2O) tells of a lump of paraffin wax
being mistaken for ambergris. Several years
back I discovered a 21b. lump of real amber-
gris adorning a shelf in a prospector’s
humpy on the South Coast of Vic. The
old boy had found it on the beach years
before, and pegged out a claim, thinking it
was oil shale. He told me he sank a shaft,
but “never found a color.” I took it to
London, where I was quoted 30s. to 40s.
per ounce, and got 50s. at auction in
Mincing-lane. Even then I was unlucky,
as the recent arrival of a 2cwt. parcel from
the North Pole or somewhere had swamped
the market. The chief use of the generally
foul-smelling stuff is in the manufacture of
high-class perfumes to which minute quan-
tities lend what perfumers call “wings.”
“F.N.T.”: A Melbourne engineer. Charles
Fortescue, done what the U.S. with
several decades’ experience of safety razors
has not yet been able to manage satisfac-
torily. He has invented, manufactured and
marketed an efficient, trouble-proof, self-con-
tained, pocket-size safety-razor strop which
will put a keen edge on a double-sided
blade in a few seconds. All mechanical
razor-sharpeners so far sold in this country
have been imported. They work on leather
strops (also imported, in 999 cases out of
1000), instead of being complete in them-
selves; and more dollars are required to buy
them. Fortescue’s implement has an added
virtue in that its various parts have been
made throughout from Australian materials.
* # * *
“Pakeha”: “Exile’s” eulogy of the Aus-
tralian ’phone and telegraph systems (B.
l/l/’2O) won’t cut much ice with those
acquainted with Maoriland’s systems. In
M.L. you can send a wire from the North
Gape to the Bluff for a halfpenny a word plus
2d. war-tax on each message. Penny-in-the-
s'lot ’phone boxes and posting boxes are en-
countered at very frequent intervals in the
cities and their environs, consequently you
don’t have to walk a mile to post a letter or
ring up. Again, ’phone connections are
prompt and the automatic has to a great
extent dispensed with the exchange girl. The
letter postage-rate in M.L. is a penny for
each four ounces plus a halfpenny per packet
war-tax. If, as “Exile” claims, the systems
in Australia are as efficient as those in the
U.S.A., then M.L. easily leads the U.S.A.
“Gleniris”: Some time ago I read about
a Californian market-gardener who rose to
be the Garlic King of his district. Melbourne
has one, too. He is a Chinaman, and sold
his last crop for £lOOO. That there is money
in the business I can’t help believing, con-
sidering that my wife’s last purchase for
domestic use was at the rate of 2s. Bd. per
lb., or just on £3OO a ton. The wholesale
chemists lately skinned the market of sup-
plies ; but the most attractive use for garlic,
of course, is for tastifying meat-dishes. A
piece rubbed around the pan gives a flavor
to the contents, while a segment shoved into
a slot in a leg of mutton before cooking, and
left there, will make the whole joint savory
by - the time the roast is finished.
* * * *
“Albatross” : After a life of sin and sorrow
in various parts of the world it has been
left to a little South Sea Island post-office
to furnish me with my most unique ex-
perience. One morning I strayed into the
show and sitting on the business-side of the
counter was a melancholy-looking individual
with chin resting in cupped hands and a peu
balanced on one ear. His large, dark,
luminous eyes were gazing fixedly at a cocoa-
nut-tree near the entrance. It seemed just an
ordinary tree, too, as cocoanut-trees go. I
hated to disturb him, but business is busi-
ness, so I rapped on the counter and said:
“Six penny stamps, please.” A shiver
seemed to pass down his spine. He emptied
his head from his hands, transferred the pen
to his other ear and glode sinuously from his
perch. He next viciously attacked a drawer,
pulling it out by the roots, rummaged about
in it, scratched his head and then pushed
the drawer back. With a puzzled expression
on his face he pulled open another drawer,
turned and retired to an anteroom. There
followed noises as of heavy furniture being
moved. After an interval the melancholy
man slid back to his perch at the counter
and groaned. “Very sorry, sir, but we’re
only one left!” I bought the remnant, slimed
it, punched it hard down on a letter
addressed “Editor, Bulletin,” dropped the
letter into the slot and staggered down to my
ship in a dazed condition.
THE ROADS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The New Road is the best road,
And a level road to follow;
But the Old Road was the blest road,
In spite of hill and hollow.
For though through rugged lands it passed,
And though ’twas stiff to climb,
It seemed to say, “Go slow, go fast,
All journeys end in time.”
The New Road is a cold road,
Where Speed, stern-visaged, races;
But a kind road was the Old Road
That paused by pleasant places.
For here it heard the bell-bird’s note,
And there the lyre-bird’s call;
And well it loved to dream and dote
Beside some waterfall.
The New Road is a fleet road
That knows not sleep nor leisure;
But the Old Road was a sweet road
That took its fill of pleasure.
For though ’twas rough to walk or ride,
Rock-ribbed and boulder-strewed,
It had a tavern by its side
Where sparkling ale was brewed.
A stern road is the New Road,
Sound-bedded, graded, gravelled;
But the Old Road was a true road,
By golden mateship travelled.
For on its leagues, though dull of eye
Went some in bitter need,
Men never passed each other by
Without a brave “God speed!”
The New Road is a bold road
That needs not shine or shadow;
But the Old Road was the gold road
That led to Eldorado.
For once (that once is gone, for sure;
Nor more its splendor smiles 1)
The legion of the Shining Lure
Marched up and down its miles.
The New Road is the best road,
With ordered posts and palings;
But the Old Road was a blest road,
For all its faults and failings.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


mSm
One of the most distressing troubles a
person can endure is biliousness. It is
depressing to the spirits and demoralis-
ing to the entire system. The person so
afflicted is scarcely, able to work or take
an interest in anything. The sewers of
his body are clogged and need flushing out. The bile is turned
from its proper channel and enters the blood and produces
that peculiar cast of complexion. He is very restless, uneasy
or sleepless at night, or perhaps his slumber is lethargic and
dull. He has dull pains, uneasiness under the right side and
shoulder blades, a bitter taste in the mouth, sudden dizzi-
ness on rising, furred tongue, bowels loose one day and con-
stipated the next.
All or any of these conditions may accompany the bilious condition, and
while so afflicted the patient’s life is scarcely worth living. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills relieve this trouble speedily and cast the burden from the
spirits. They open the clogged-up system, purify the blood, and once more
the human mechanism works smoothly and easily. On the appearance of
bilious symptoms a dose, from two to four, of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
should be taken, the larger dose for a more robust grown person; the next
night increase the dose one extra pill, and if the trouble is not relieved,
another dose should be taken. A little experience will guide the patient in
the use of the pills so as to produce the best effects. People differ in the
way medicine affects them, and consequently no invariable rule can be given.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills do not gripe nor produce violent pains.
They are not a drastic, wrenching medicine. They are mild and gentle, yet
they do their work in a thorough manner and purify the body of all that is
opposed to health. Consequently they do not weaken as many other
medicines do, and it is very seldom they occasion any pain at all, unless
the system is very bilious.
lrW% iTmlir


CAN’T BEAT COCOANUT
OIL FOR HAIR WASH.
Girls and women who wish to keep their
hair in nice condition should tie most cautious
in the soap they wash it with. Most
soaps and ready-mixed shampoos contain
excessive quantities of alkali. This dries
the scalp, makes the hair brittle and is very
injurious. Just ordinary colinated eocoanu't
oil (a pure, saponified but quite greaseless
liquid) is far better than the most costly
soap you could possibly use for a shampoo,
for this cannot possibly hurt your hair.
Merely wet your hair with water and rub it
on. A couple of teaspoonsful make a perfect
flood of rich, thick, creamy lather, and
cleanses both hair and scalp thoroughly. The
lather rinses out easily, and takes with it
every trace of dust, dirt, dandruff or excessive
oiliness. The hair dries quickly and evenly,
and comes out fine and silky, bright, glossy
and fluffy, appearing to be heavier than it is.
And, best of all, this colinated cocoanut oil
leaves the hair as easy to dress again as
though you hadn’t washed it at all. You can
get colinated cocoanut oil at most any chemist,
but be sure it’s “colinated.” which is not.
expensive—a few ounces lasting a long, long
time.
Girls! Women! Give this a Corner on your Dressing
table. Never Let a Corn Ache Again!
Like a Flash! Few Drops Stop Corns Throbbing,
Then Corns and Callouses Wither Up, Loosen
and Lift Out Like a Cork—Painlessly!
sd
THE Australian people owe a
debt of gratitude to the wizard
in chemistry who foruialated the
new ether discovery named
Frozol-Ice.
Little phials of this
wonder liquid are now
obtainable from any chem-
ist for a few pence. You
merely apply a few drops
of this Frozol-Ice on a ten-
der, aching corn or tough-
ened callous. Right away all
soreness vanishes, and soon you see the
corn or callous that loose and withered
that it lifts out with the fingers, like a
cork. Not a twinge of pain or even irritation
is felt when using Frozol-Ice, or afterwards.
No soreness, no inflammation of surrounding
healthy flesh or skin.
Only a few pence now gives one freedom
from all and each soft corn, hard corn, corn
between the toes, likewise tender callouses on
bottom of the feet. Every Australian who
tries Frozol-Ice sings its praises, for it
honestly does not hurt one wee bit.
Step in at your chemist’s to-night and in-
sist on having a small phial of Frozol-lee,
in the green-printed carton. Stand on “your
dig.” and refuse spurious imitations of this
great compound.
Catarrli o/ »Stomech
is Dangerous,
“Thousands of people suffer more or less con-
stantly from furred, coated tongue, bad breath, sour
burning stomach, etc., and call it indigestion when
in reality their trouble is due to gastric catarrh of
the stomach,” writes a New York physician.
Catarrh of the stomach is dangerous because the
mucous mebrance lining of the stomach is thickened
and a coating of phlegm covers the surface so that
the digestive fluids cannot mix with the food and
digest them. Gastric ulcers are apt to form, and
frequently an ulcer is the first sign of a deadly cancer.
In catarrh of the stomach a good and safe treat-
ment is to take before meals a teaspoonful of pure
Salix Magnesia in half a glass of hot .water, as hot
as you can comfortably drink it. The hot water
washes tire mucus from the stomach walls and draws
the blood to the stomach, while the Salix Magnesia is
an excellent solvent for mucous, and increases the
efficiency of the hot water treatment. Moreover, the
Salix Magnesia will serve as a powerful but harmless
antacid, which will neutralise any excess hydrochloric-
acid that may be in your stomach and sweeten its
food contents. Easy, natural digestion without dis-
tress of any kind should soon follow. Salix Magnesia
is not a laxative, is harmless, pleasant to take, and
can be obtained from any local chemist. Don’t con-
fuse Salix Magnesia with other forms of magnesia,
granular, citrates, etc., but get it in the pure Salix
form, a fine white powder or compressed tablets
specially prepared for this purpose.
A Troopship Interlude.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HM.A. Transport 040 plodded shakily
through the Gulf of Guinea in the
• direction of England. On board
were 1500 Diggers of the 1910 vin-
tage. The heat was terrific, and no one
below the rank of sergeant had had a decent
bath for weeks —for the Yorkshire skipper
was one who disbelieved in pampering sol-
diers at the expense of his owners.
But the Diggers were cheerful. That
afternoon the 040 was due to cross the
Equator, and the captain had gloomily de-
cided to be reckless. Hoses had been pro-
vided. The salt-water supply was to be
turned on. The boys were to be allowed to
wash themselves. Numbers of them, reaching
vaguely after the carnival spirit, had covered
their faces and hands with lamp-black. All
were stripped to the limits of decency. In
addition to the hoses there were innumerable
buckets, and an impromptu bath made of tar-
paulin. Requests were bellowed to the offi-
eial turnkey, within the bowels of the ship,
that he should do his duty without further
delay. But an opening ceremony was
necessary. The C.O. troops was an elderly
peace warrior to whom ceremonial was as
the breath of life. He loved to gather “his
.men” together and unloose short, soldierly
homilies upon them. It was generally
understood that he regarded himself, in ap-
pearance, manner and bearing as a replica
of the late Lord Roberts. When not at war
he was a draper.
“Turn on the water,” roared No.
11,010, Private Riordan, impatiently. A dis-
cordant bray from the trumpet worn by the lad
who was the C.O.’s advance-guard silenced
him. “Party! ’Shown!” yelled the S.-M.,
and saluted his leader expai jively, devotedly ;
for his was a soft job and worth the hold-
ing. The C.O. stood framed in the com-
panion-way steps and smiled in a benignant,
if condescending, manner upon tli nude and
sweating multitude at his feet.
“My men,” he said, “I, your commanding
officer, have come here to wish you a pleas-
ing afternoon in the relaxation you are about
to experience from the rigors of that train-
ing which is necessary in view of the stern
task which faces us. Do not let liberty
degenerate into license. Respect the ship’s
property. Let there be no bad language.
In short, behave as true British soldiers
should. Remain where you are while the
padre addresses you.”
The padre meant well at all times, but be
was an incorrigible bleater. A perfectly
futile young man, with fair hair, a beautiful
skin, thin head-voice, he had a strange
stomach-trouble which had anchored him at
the C.O.’s side for several voyages, and
promised to do so for the rest of the war.
"Boys!” he shrieked affably. “Don’t over-
do it now. Mind that. Quiet, reasonable
amusement. Yes! But overdoing it— no,
certainly not. Don’t be led away and break
things which you’ll have to pay for your-
selves —yourselves, mind you—at the end of
the trip. Now, boys. I wish you a very
happy afternoon, and before going I. call on
you to give three hearty cheers for our gal-
lant C. 0.. Lreut.-Colonel Loquat, V.D.”
The cheers were perfunctorily given, in
response to the divine’s shrill leading cries
of “Hip! Hip!”; the motive-power being
about one-part, courtesy and nine-parts
eagerness to see the backs of the pair. They
always managed to produce on such occa-
sions an absurd and yet irritating suggestion
of the Squire and his wife visiting the loyal
tenants on the village green.
“She’s on!” shouted Corporal Mcßail
excitedly. A thin trickle was indeed exud-
ing from one of the hoses.' It became a
stream; a cataract! The S.-M., coming
briskly round a corner to investigate, got
several tons of ocean full on the tunic, and
as he lay in a semi-conscious state had a
narrow escape of being drowned. He was
dragged from the scene, and the hoses were
turned on to the swimming-bath. Men fell
in and were thrown in. Buckets of water
were projected at the onlookers and then
plain buckets. Those who had lamp-
blacked themselves now began to present
a mottled appearance. They did not desist,
however, from blacking others; and whole
sections of the deck became writhing masses
of powerful white forms and discolored
hands and faces. There was a wail and a
crash. The dirtiest man on board had been
discovered in his hiding-place on “A” deck.
Dragged up, he was heaved into the bath—
his first wash of any sort reputedly since
bis embarkation at Melbourne. The Major
—self-appointed to the position of second-
in-command—appeared at the boat-deck rail-
ing overlooking the uproar. A rash act. He
was far from popular. Least of all with
Private Riordan. who had suffered at his
hands, and who had momentary command of
a hose. Niagara uprose, searched the
Major’s neighborhood for the fraction of a
second, and then found and drove him in
disorder to the officers’ saloon. Howls of
approval. Captain Blasterby peered cau-
tiously round a ventilator-shaft near the
C.O.’s cabin. He was a 1914 man returning
for a second dose after being wounded at
Lone Pine: he knew the men and was taking
no chances. Not that he was disliked; but a
stage had arrived when General Birdwood
himself would have been in danger. Kior-
dan’s hose had been torn from him, and he
had replaced- it with a bucket three-parts
full. He flung the contents at captain
Blasterby, who deftly drew back his head.
A good deal of the discolored fluid entered
the 0.0.’s cabin. The C.O. had not fought
with the Australians as Blasterby had, but
he knew them, having already commanded
nine A.I.F. transports. “Captain Blasterby,”
he thundered, and then, in a more modu-
lated key; “Find the padre and send him
to me at once.” The padre was discovered
in an agitated mood assisting to dry and
otherwise comfort the Major, who was
explaining passionately that the only mem-
bers of the A.I.F. of any military value were
the Englishmen who had fought at Gal-
lipoli, that the later reinforcements were dis-
orderly blackguards to a man and that they
would fail miserably when faced by the dis-
ciplined hosts of Germany. “Oh, terrible,
terrible, Major,” agreed tne padre, plying a
handkerchief vigorously on his friend’s cap.
“Listen to their language! The cries, tne
oaths!”
“The Colonel wants you, padre,” inter-
rupted the voice of Blasterby. “I think he’s
going to detail you to stop the riot. The
skipper says they’ll knock a hole in the ship
if this goes on much longer.”
“And gladly will I order them to cease,”
said the divine. “The affair has passed the
bounds of legitimate enjoyment and become
a Scandal.” And he tripped eagerly into
the presence of his chief.
Another minute, and he had, so to speak,
gone over the top. Unconscious of the
depths which a callous soldiery were cap-
able of plumbing, he took his stand at the
railing above the seething, dripping crowd
and held up his hand. There was an
astounded pause.
“Men,” he bleated, “you have disgraced
yourselves. Stop throwing! Stop water-
throwing this instant. You there! Put
down that hose at once! Put it”
It was the end. F nr hoses and the
contents of some 30 ' :ckets caught him
amidships practically together. He col-
lapsed, made a game attempt to get up.
was half-drowned once more, and hastened
on his hands anti knees to the saloon.
His rage was terrible. “Send Harold to
me at once!” lie. cried. Harold was the
Y.M.C.A. representative, and a faithful
creature who was employed by the padre as
a sort of A.D.C.
The chief steward entered, obviously an-
noyed. “I’m not one to interfere with any
man’s fun.” he said truculently. “I’m a
sport myself and always was, but you got
no light, sir, to come into my saloon and
set in the chairs in the state you’re in.
’Ave a bit of fun if yer like”
“Fun! Do you think I’m.doing this for
fun?” shrieked the padre, wringing the
water out of his long, pale hair.
“I’m not here to argue, sir,” said the
steward tensely. “You—get—outer—my—
serloon !”
With an inarticulate cry the clergyman
burst through the swing-doors, held menac-
ingly open for him, and fell into the arms
of Harold, who was ascending the stairs.
He told Harold in a few words what was
required of him. He was to go amongst the
men as one of themselves and reason with
them ; lie was to appeal to their higher feel-
ings, to their manliness, tlieir self-respect
and their soldierly honor. Having secured
a hearing he was to direct them as from
their padre—nay, as from their C.O. himself
—to put aside their hoses and water buckets
and go quietly to their respective decks.
“Say to them. Hal.” concluded the good
man—“ Say to them, ‘Enough is as good as
a feast; arid you. my in-en, have had a
veritable repast.’ ”
The countenance of Harold, who was an
idealist, glowed with enthusiasm. He sprang
to attention, saluted, turned smartly to the
right-about, as he had seen people, do in
military plays, and walked down the stairs
and out on to the main deck.
He was fully dressed in the neat uniform
of his peaceful calling. An enraptured hush
greeted him. And then the entire army
fell on him as one man. His freshly-ironed
“crash” tunic and slacks were peeled off •
his shining kid shoes were cast aside; clad
only in a cotton singlet he was borne un-
resistingly to the bath and hurled within.
And here Harold demonstrated that he
was by no means the effeminate weakling
that many had imgained him to be. He
stood up in the bath ; and he was smiling.
A bucket of water hit him in the face. He
had a long, luxurious stretch on the floor of
the bath and rose up—still smiling. Nothing
could have been more disconcerting. Some-
one furtively retrieved his shoes from a scup-
per and put them in a place of safety.
Another gathered up his uniform. “Wad-
deryer want to insult the poor little bloke
for’” growled a tall, lean infantryman, his
face a grotesque study in black-and-white
stripes. “A man ought ter give anyone a
punch on the nose that done such a thing.”
“Oh! Captain Blasterby! Oh! Colonel!”
cried the padre. “Harold has succeeded!
He has reasoned with them and they have
desisted. I will now myself address a few
words to them.” And before he could be
checked he had hurried to the rails, only to
be immediately drenched as before.
Captain Blasterby decided that the revel-
lers had had enough for one day.
“Do you really want it stopped?” he in-
quired gruffly of the padre.
“Do I want it stopped !” cried the clergy-
man. “Of course I do.! Disgraceful!
Dreadful!”
“Of course I want it stopped!.” came in
trembling tones from tL C.O.’s cabin.
“Say, Major!” roared Blasterby to a de-
pressed and dripping figure near the canteen,
“tell the engineer to turn that water
off!”
A heavy silence ensued : such a silence as
no doubt befel when Columbus first showed
how an egg might be made to stand on its
end.
Within five minutes the peace of boredom
had descended once more upon the shudder-
ing old vessel.
J. B. D.
The Colonel’s Boots.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
80ON after the Armistice, when an
always paternal Authority had decided
that the Light Horse had not had
enough of the fragrant East, our regiment
was sent on patrol duty to a fertile and
friendly part of Syria. There was plenty of
fruit, discipline was not strict, and we set-
tled down to a quiet life. Hunting parties
were our favorite diversion, usually ending
in an infuriated O.C. issuing orders inform-
in all ranks that the next man who acci-
dentally shot the village cow would be dras-
tically dealt with. Still, we were all happy
—all but Ethelbert. Ethelbert was of a
romantic disposition. He saw disguised prin-
cesses in all the orange-bints around Syria,
and once in Cairo we had an awful job to
persuade him tln.t a white-veiled houri in a
gharri who called out to him “Come on,
Johnny,” was not the latest favorite from
the Prince Said Hassan’s harem.
The Sheik was a friendly old man, but
very dignified and jealous of his position.
Several times he had complained to the adju-
tant about the boys calling out “Sai-da,
Bint” (and other things) to the veiled mys-
teries who looked down through the latticed
windows as we rode by. And it may have
been because the veiled ones seemed to
rather like it that finally an R.O. was issued
putting the path past the Shiek’s house out
of bounds.
For some days I’d noticed Ethelbert acting
in a suspicious manner. Every spare
minute he spent in polishing his leather-
work, he shaved every day, and was con-
tinually doing his hair. Everyone who passed
our bivvy made disparaging remarks con-
cerning “spare colonels,” and wanted to
know what was the use of regimental sig-
nallers, anyhow. (To that much-maligned
crowd he and I belonged.) I remonstrated
with Ethelbert, but he was quite unmoved,
stating that if the whole, regiment chose to
go about like the advanced guard of a party
of raiding Bedouins he at least was going to
look respectable. Of course I guessed some-
thing, and one evening the awful truth
came out.
I was down at the Quartermaster’s store
trying to convince the sergeant that our bivvy
had not had its rum issue, when I heard my
name passed up the lines. I went back, and
found “Tubby,” another regimental flag-
wagger, in a high state of excitement.
“The Sheik’s pinched Ethelbert,” he said,
“got him locked up in his tower, and there’ll
be a hell of a row.”
I calmed him down and he explained mat-
ters. It seemed that'Tubby, with thoughts
of a chicken for breakfast, had strolled down
to the Sheik’s premises, and was pretty close
to it when he noticed a row going on inside.
Tubby could see figures moving about the
roof, and presently, to his surprise, -a light
started to flicker in Morse from the tower.
He read it and recognised the regimental
call. He knew Ethelbert had a pocket torch,
so he took a risk, and gave “Carry on”
with a whistle. The lamp flicked out ‘%lieik
-after-—me—tell—Cub” (“the Cub” being a
soubriquet bestowed on me by an ungrateful
regiment). Tubby whistled “0.K.” and hur-
ried back to dig me up.
Here was a job. I guessed that our Ethel-
bert’s failing had led to trouble in the
Sheik’s household, and that the infuriated
old gentleman was probably preparing to
descend on the camp and complain to the
0.C., leaving Ethelbert locked up in his
beastly tower. Then I got an idea. I knew
that the Colonel and most of the officers
were oyer dining with another regiment
eight miles to the west, and would be safe
till close on midnight. I told Tubby to get
10 or 12 chaps we could rely on. Then I
hurried down to the O.C.’s tent, and bor-
rowed one of his.tunics and a pair of new
jack-boots. lie is about my size, so the
fit was not bad. By the time I’d had a
shave Tubby was back with 12 men, and had
put on a sergeant’s tunic. I made a pretty
disreputable-looking colonel, but knew that
the Sheik had never seen the Old Man
having had all his dealings with his adjutant
Arrived at the Sheik’s house we marched
up to the front porch and Tubby knocked
and made known my august presence
Presently down came the old boy in a great
state. He spoke pretty good English, ‘i
have him, Effendi,” he howled. “He would
steal all my money. Yes, you will shoot him
so that never again he can work such evil''”’
“What do you mean, Sheik?’’ J said
coldly. “I send one of my men out on secret
service and find him signalling from your
tower, complaining that you are attacking
him.” B
“Allah! why did lie not tell us?” gasped
the old man.
“And let your people know that we are
on the watch for the Bedouin thieves who
have done so much harm lately?” I S;l i c |
“No, Sheik; I trust you, but not all your
servants. Still, it may have seemed sus-
picious, so liberate my man and all will he
well.”
“You are right, Effendi,” said the Sheik.
“Come with me, if you will be so good as to
enter my house, and he shall be released.”
When Ethelbert saw my tunic lie said
“ ’Struth!” but we got him down quickly
and out of the house before the Sheik could
suspect anything. We doubled back to
camp, for it was getting late, and I hurried
down to return the Colonel’s property. Just
as I was hanging his tunic up, I heard
horses crossing the bridge. In my haste I
forgot I was wearing the boss’s boots, and
wore them back to my bivvy, where I found
Ethelbert sitting on my bunk and smoking
my cigarettes.
“Now, you kiwi-brasso idiot,” I said, “will
you tell us what you mean by dragging me
out to rescue you from respectable sheiks
and getting in the way of 12 months or
so for masquerading as an extra 0.C.?”
Ethelbert’s confession was to the effect
that he had made the acquaintance of a per-
fect Venus de Milo who lived in the old
Sheik’s house. (No, he didn’t know if she
were a wife, or a daughter, but suspected the
latter.) He found that she could speak a
little English and some French, and he
arranged to meet her in the Sheik’s garden.
He did this several times while the old man
was away, but this night either Ethelbert
overstayed his time or the Sheik came home
too early—-anyhow, he noticed Ethelbert
climbing his wall. To save Venus, Ethel-
bert dashed through the house, but his re-
treat was cut off, and he was compelled to
take refuge in the tower, pulling the ladder
up after him. As a last resort he flashed the
message that Tubby saw. He was rather
grateful, but implied that, what I had done
was only my duty, and what he wanted to
was what had happened to the girl.
“What’s going to happen to me?” I de-
manded. “Fee still got the Old Man’s
boots on !”
Tubby came to the rescue. “We’ll do ’em
up in an old shirt,” he said, “and address
it to the 0.C., and leave it in the post box
opposite the orderly-room.”
We cleaned them up and made Ethelbert
take them down at once. He came back and
reported all clear, and for a few days we
lived in peace. Then one day I was on the
field-telephone. trying to persuade an
R.A.M.C. major that we were not the 52nd
Scottish, nor the bodyguard of the Sheriff of
Mecca, when the adjutant blew in and took
a seat.. At most times I was glad to see
the adj. ; but he had a piercing sort of eye
that just their I had no wish to meet. I
rang off the lunatic at the ’phone, and asked
the adjutant what I could do for him. It
seemed that he wanted to know if an A.S.C.
officer had left any message for him. I said
that nothing had come through, so he said
he’d wait for a while, pinched one of my
cigarettes, and settled down.
“Colonel’s very wild about his new boots,”
he remarked suddenly.
“Oh,” I said, trying to look unconcerned.
“Do they pinch him, or what’s up?”
“No, somebody pinched them, and sent ’em
back by parcel post.”
I registered extreme amazement, but he
went on : “ ’Nother funny thing. Last night
the old Sheik came to see me, and said he
hoped the Colonel was well and had caught
the Bedouin thieves. He was most apolo-
getic about interfering with our secret-service
man, and quite inconsolable at having dis-
turbed the O.C. so late by his stupidity.
I looked interested and asked the adj. if
any Bedouins had been caught.
“Not exactly,” he murmured. “What size
boots do you wear, Cub?”
“Army six, sir.”
“So does the 0.C.,” he said. “These are
excellent cigarettes you’ve got, Cub—l’ll
have another. And remember about that
’phone message for me. And—er—the next
time Ethelbert gets into trouble, don’t you
think that a one-star loot or a w.o. would be
good enough?”
FLICKER.


§r:
f-; ;
-O
“iso d
5 ;7?i
* 4 T 3 ■ %
IS
f 5 0 5 »
r ;
5 S 3?
t -2 b c
PH 19 5
mu
niii-muutt
muiml
muu.mn mm
When you want
the purest gin,
insist on having'
Coates*
the orig'inal
Plymouth Dry
Gin, distilled in
England since
1793.
COOPER, NATHAN & CO.,
Sole Agents, SYDNEY.
fsdf
Whisky Supplies
By Appointment.
If the Great Age and High-class Quality of the
“WHITE HORSE” Brand are to be maintained
there can be no increase in the quantity sold to
the public notwithstanding our Government’s
recent release of additional spirits for export.
Both in the interests of the public and the
reputation of the ‘‘WHITE HORSE” Whisky,
Messrs. Mackie & Co. Distillers, Ltd., have decided,
much as they regret disappointing the public,
to maintain the high-class quality and age of
their brand by continuing the present limited sales.
It would be short-sighted policy to supply the
full demands now and have to give a younger
whisky a few years hence owing to the cessation
of distilling for two years during the war.
It is to be hoped, for the credit and the good
name of the trade, that dealers will refrain from
refilling our “WHITE HORSE” bottles with
other spirits, but will sell these spirits on their
own merits.
Members of the retail trade in the general
interests should exercise great care in order to
prevent increase of drunkenness, which would
give Prohibitionists a weapon to further attack
our trade.
We ask the supporters of “WHITE HORSE”
to be content with a less supply and have it good
—quality is preferable to quantity.
yfftlTE Ho
WHISKY
MACKIE & CO. DISTILLERS LIMITED,
Glasgow, Island of Islay, Campbeltown, Craigellachie-Glenlivet, and London.
CHAMPION ROAD ROLLERS
are Unrivalled for Strength and
Sturdiness of Construction.
?&■' & '
.! B
\ s'
Champion Water Ballast Twin Cylinder Reversible Road Roller.
Model 3—With Pair of Shafts
and Set of Three Horse Bars.
sd
Figure 581
Model 2—With Triple Shafts
for working Two Horses in
Shafts abreast.
it
You cannot put your finger on a single weak
spot in any Champion Road Roller, for they
are made with one object in mind —to give
their users honest service with the least cost
of upkeep.
Each model has features of interest. In
model 691 , for example, the pole is self-
supporting so that there is no strain or wear
on horses’ necks.
Then to reverse the direction of the roller it is only necessary
to release the clip and the horses and front carriage are taken
to the other end of the roller—without the driver dismounting
—where the front carriage automatically couples up and the
roller is then ready to be drawn in the opposite way.
Staffer's Lubricators are fitted to the axle and the four
drum bearings are automatically lubricated. Then in models
581 and 588, although water ballast double cylinder style,
sand ballast can be used.
We also supply horse-drawn open-ended double cylinder
rollers with either wood or steel ballast hoppers, whilst we
have also models 8 and 9 hand-drawn double cylinder rollers
for lawns, paddocks, footpaths, road construction and repairs.
Write now for free illustrated booklet, which gives complete
details.
Figure 588.
British Australian Machinery Go. Ltd.,
Wynyard Street, SYDNEY
Union Bank Chambers, BRISBANE
Co lins House, MELBOURNE


Free lolly Recipes
Sent on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope for Free Trial of Our
WORLD’S WORKS RECIPES; per-
sonally collected. After trying them
we think you will want to
Learn the Lolly Trade
from our books, 1, 2 and 3, on terms.
Necessaries sent Free Carriage l’aid.
R. CROAKER (Dept. 1)
Universal Chambers,
325 Collins Street, Melbourne.
EST. 1899.
CALL AND SEE PUPILS’ WORK.
STfie'Beer without
a 'jfrval --- «
rVac/e from
yVaZ/qf/ops
OALV
r rrr'
lilfil.iiC
n \u
h/
VjL
S'#
fdf
A HINT FOR MOTHERS.
HOW TO MAKE A TAR COUGH SYRUP
THAT CHILDREN LIKE.
Tar preparations as prescribed by physi-
cians usually taste so unpleasant that it is
difficult to get children to take them. Mothers
who have experienced this difficulty will
therefore be glad to learn that one of the
cheapest as well as one of the most effective
cough syrups known, and which is at the
same time so pleasant to take that children
ask for it, can be prepared by simply dis-
solving bit-rate of tar in hot water. The fol-
lowing is the best recipe: Obtain a 2oz.
bottle of biirate of tar from the chemist, and
add the contents to a simple syrup prepared
by dissolving Sox. of sugar in half a pint
of hot water, stirring well all the time. When
cold pour into a bottle and cork tightly. The
cough syrup is then ready for use when
required. From one-lialf to one teaspoonful
every hour or two will quickly relieve a most-
stubborn cough or cold and tend to prevent
the danger, ever present iu children, of con-
tracting lung trouble, influenza and pneu-
monia. For grown-up people the dose may
be doubled, and it will be found particularly
valuable in relieving and preventing those
catarrhal and bronchial troubles which so fre-
ouently lead to more serious complaints.—
Advt.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s ~.. “Thu Bing Boy? on Broadway”
Criterion “Lightnin - ”
Palace “Th Little Damozel”
Tivoli “Buzz-Buzz ”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMNG WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Sleeping Beauty”
Royal “Kissing Time”
King’s “Mother Hubbard”
Tivoli “As You Were”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lv, Ki m Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia . Moving Pictures
Glaciarium Dancing
At Melbourne Royal the system of god-
mothering French soldiers from the Front
continues to make trouble in the St. Pol
household, where the arrival of a preposter-
ous guardian, who insists on Gladys Mon-
crieff kissing a husband who happens to be
the other lady’s, serves as a necessary stimu-
lant to the trouble. “Kissing Time” is
stated to be merely “founded” on a French
nlay: had it been more distinctly adapted
from its source the comedy would probably
have been spicier. But the story, as far as
it matters, holds together: Ivan Oaryll’s
music is tuneful in its graceful, reminis-
cent style; and the show dresses are full
of Paris fashion as well as fine girl. The
pantos are ancient attractions by compari-
son : so with many things in its favor “Kiss-
ing Time” goes well on the market.
Robert Courtneidge has definitely arranged
with Mclntosh to bring a comedy co. to Aus-
tralia, arriving here in May. Courtneidge,
whom erring publicity paragraphists describe
ns a native of this country, had a craving to
“THE SLEEPING BEAUTY." AT HER
MAJESTY’S MELBOURNE
Mrs. Spoopendyke (Marriott Edgar) tells
Bill that Walter (Brother Egbert) is
a profiteer who helped to put up the
price of beer.
revisit it after long years, so the Mclntosh
proposal appealed to his feelings as a man
and a manager. His wife conies with him,
and his youngest daughter is to be a mem-
ber of the co. George Tully is mentioned
as “a fine actor” who will be leading man.
as Courtneidge himself vouches for George’s
talent and expects the whole combination
to make good, it seems that we may look
forwaru to a comparatively intellectual
entertainment.
Melbourne Tivoli is revelling in the new
sensation of being closed. But on Satur-
day the swept and garnished theatre will
reopen to the tunes of “As You Were,”
lately of Sydney. Bert Clarke. Vera Pearce
and others are the moving spirits, and the
advertisement thoughtfully refers to them
as “famous players.”
Harry Lupine is still leading the riot in
Mother Hubbard” at Melbourne King’s.
These warm nights he is most energetic in
showing how to travel on the Vic. railways
for nothing. It is a wild bit of farce, but
not so funny as the reality. Anybody can
better Barry’s performance by disguising
himself as a piano, consigned from Spencer-
street to Brighton, when he will probably
get a free trip to Serviceton or Albury be-
fore reaching his destination.
“The Sleeping Beauty” at Melbourne
Majesty’s continues to show its regard for
royalty by the manner in which it parades
King I'ompos and bis retinue. The King
with the bandy legs isn’t impressive* and
seems to sleep in his crown, but he is given
ail the help that a good tailor can supply.
In fact, when clothed in the State pants,
with hose and shoes to match, the lower half
of Pompos looks like a triumphal arch.
In “The Hoodlum” at Melbourne Majes-
tic, Mary Pickford is deserting her wealthy
grandpa to go slumming with her dad, and
after varied assaults on her pride and
temper she grabs the bloke who blinded
her eyes to the glamor of grand-dad’s
millions. It is a long, lively and
often improbable film, but whether hurling
spanners or amorous persiflage Mary is en-
chanting. On the same bill “The Pagan
God” shows 11. B. Warner as a secret-
service hero whose nose for treason causes
the failure of a successful bombing busi-
ness. At Hoyt’s, George Barr McCutcheon’s
“Cowardice Court” is haunting the screen,
with pretty Peggy Hyland as solace for the
hero who is warned off the noble Brazel-
bush’s ( estate. Gladys Brockwell in “The
Sneak” has a change of life in a gipsy camp,
and Bryant Washburn shows his staying-
power and imperturbable front in an artful
narrative, “Come On Over.” “Ginger Mick,”
now running at the Britannia, pictures
Michael’s conversion from a bunny magnate
to a flamin’ ’ero, with slices of Dennis’s
verses to illustrate his sentiments. Gilbert
Emery plays the part of Mick well until he
slips into khaki; then he rather stresses the
suggestion of a penitent pushite. Ail the
same, “Mick” is close to life, and the bits
of “Doreen” disclosing the happiness of
the Bloke and his family provide a pathetic
contrast to Ginger’s lonely finish.
“I wuz a marine engineer, originally.”
said J. D. O’Hara (“Liar and Gentleman”),
of Sydney Criterion. “An’ we struck.
Struck fer 15 hunnerd a month an’ ice-cream
at all meals. The owners offer us two
thousand and unnertakes to instal an up-to-
date ice-cream factory in the fo’c’s’le; also
to provide valets, bridge and poker decks,
and chews (both gum and ’bacca) free to
all. What did we decide to do? To go on
strikin'. The next day I became an actor.
Any regrets? Why. Sir-ree/” And the
eminent artist smilingly indicated the
frenetic attempts of the multitude to buy
seats for “Lightnin’.” “After 12 weeks,”
he remarked simply.
“The Bing Boys on Broadway” has scored
nine weeks at Sydney Majesty’s, and in all
that time no performance has glittered more
than the gala on Wednesday in honor of
the great Aerosmith family.
sfi X
“The Little Damozel” is lasting well at
Sydney Palace. The art and personal charm
of Emelie Polini help the little comedy
along. Six weeks now since it started.
* * * *
Sydney Tivoli fills in this week until
Friday with “The Officers’ Mess.” Then
the city throws a farewell bouquet at Vera
Pearce and gets ready for a Saturday wel-
come to “Buzz Buzz,” with Minnie Love in
the lead.
Graceful Anita Stewart’s present career
at Sydney Crystal Palace is a warning to
mind the paint. Anita, reared in a crowded
city by a poor and loving mother who can’t
spell, gets a chance to sing the new song
about stage-door johnnies minding the girl
who paints. She scores a wonderful suc-
cess, and hooks, among others, an earl and
an army olficer. The officer, who had pre-
viously rescued her from a tough, follows
Anita home and enters at: the Earl proposes
to make Anita a countess; then there is
the deuce to play, and the audience is left
guessing. D. W. Griffith's photo-play, “The
Girl who Stayed at Home.” at the Globe and
Haymarket, introduces a four-handed game
with a war interest. Charles Ray cleans
a chimney, eats apple-pie, catches the burglar
in his speed car, “Greased Lightning,” and
marries the bank-managers daughter.
Lyceum shows the Madri Gras Festival at
New Orleans, and a flower-seller- pins a
crimson gardenia on Owen Moore’s' breast,
in consequence of which many thrills follow
and gallons of ,blood flow. Evelyn Nesbitt
in “Thou Shalt Not,” at Hoyt’s, runs awav
with a wortnless railwayman, but is brought
back to the main-line after the usual pro-
gramme of skirmishes with the Devil.
Adelaide has been getting weather more
suitable for outdoor shows. (But, hot or
cold, there has been no rain worth men-
tioning for months.) At Austral Gardens
Victor Prince’s party has retired, and Harry
Borradale’s, with a reputation from Vic-
toria, has come in. The Fuller players did
good work in a short dramatic season at
the Tivoli, but did not got much support.
The Majestic, however, is doing big business
with variety; the eccentric Eddie Montrose
has hit the popular fancy, and parson
Frank Gorman is about to uplift his voice
in song. The Royal has pictures. William
Farnuin battles his way through Africa, and
Gladys Brock well hers through “the pitfalls
of a big city.” Wondergraph is strong in
feminine interest, with Enid Bennett
"THE OFFICERS' MESS" AT SYDNEY
TIVOLI.
The Captain (Valentine) , the Major (Hol-
land) and the Loot (Steyne) hear the
approach of the A.P.M.
showing how to recapture a husband b.v
“Stepping Out” at a pace equal to his own,
So is West’s, with Norma Talmadge as the
usual Southern aristocrat married to an
unusual New Yorker. And the Pav. has
made a successful screen thrill of the old
“Face at the Window.”
Owen mourns the loss of bathos:—
Bishop Long has been criticising the Anglican
hymn-book, alleging that most of- its treasures “make
him sick.” The reverend gentleman is deficient in
humor, else they would surely make him laugh. The
good, old-fashioned variety of bathos, which is
one of humanity’s most precious possessions, Is
rapidly becoming extinct; and it is the world’s good
fortune that it still survives somewhere.
The bathos of transpontine melodrama has given
place to a nauseating Amurkan brand. Even music-
hall bathos has mostly lost the saving grace of
unconscious humor. We are no longer regaled with
richly humorous ballads depicting “the diff’rence
between East and West” (London), for the sophisti-
cated song-writers of to-day have learned that
“Hearts as kind and fair
May beat in Berkeley Square
As in the lowly air
Of Seven Dials.”
What would anyone with a true appreciation of the
literary value of bathos not give for a ditty such as
that which ’Arry Rickards loved, in which the grief
of a kind-’earted coster whose missus is dyin’ is
placed in striking juxtaposition to the callousness of
a card-playing aristocrat who receives news of a
similar domestic tragedy thus:
“Lady Ernest died four-forty ?
Hang it! What a beastly bore!
.Spoilt a splendid game of euchre!
Gentlemen, I play no more.”
Would any modern song-writer pen such a stanza?
He couldn’t if he tried. He might cause the aristo-
crat to exclaim “Hang it! What a beastly bore I”
but a morbid craving for vraisemblance would cause
him to depict Lady Ernest’s widower playing bridge,
instead of that perfectly splendid “game of euchre.”
The fact that the Lost Woman is no longer the
popular music-hall figure she once was has robbed
us of many delightful staves such as:
“And in that ’umble ’ome
Were ’er sorrowin’ parents live,
They drink the champagne wine she sends,
But never, never can for-give!”
Probably the richest example of bathos in association
with “champagne wine” is in the ditty in which
an amorous male informs his lady:
“If all the stars were mine
I know what I would do;
I’d give them all for a glass of wine
With you, my love, with you.” •*
But while melodramas and music-hall songs have
changed greatly in the last 20 years, Anglican hymns
have remained much the same; hence their charm
tor the ungodly. "Hymns Ancient and Modern” still
contains such blessed verses as;
“They do not hear when the great bell
Is ringing overhead;
They cannot rise and come to church
With us, for they are dead.”
No neoteric versifier has succeeded in adducing a
more touching and convincing excuse for non-
attendance at divine worship,
The Anglican hymn and the oki-tdile music-hall
ditty have much in common, In the long-ago a
couple of Vaudevillains were Wont to conclude their
turn with this:
“Our little sketch is over,
Deny it no one can.
Applaud us, otigkore Us,
You will do, and you can,
You’ll come again terniorrer,
Each woman, child, and mail J
And so Gord bless our little
Likewise the workin’ man.”
This plea for a manifestation of “cluss consciousness”
by the Deity somehow reminds me of Isaac Watts’*
hymn, in which he assumes that the Almighty is the
peculiar property of ,tohn Bull I
“Ye British Isles, who read His love
In long epistles from above
(He hath not sent His sacred word
To every land), prai e ye the Lord.”
T would rather, too, that a d zeu bishops became
sick than sacrifice gems like the following!
“Satan his thousand arts essays;
His agents all their powers employ.
To blast the blooming work of grace,
The heavenly offspring to destroy.”
J. Dennis didn’t do that; Charles Wesley did it.
“Pick”: The Greenwood Dramatic Co.,
which forsook the stage to go on the land
down Eden way (N.S.W.), has lit the foot-
lights again and is barnstorming the Monafo.
Floods in the Kytlra, when the drought
broke, induced the return. The theatrical
family had settled there to grow corn j bltt
the deluge shifted their cultivated fiats and
fences so far down stream that they could
not decide between carting the property back
and shifting the farm after it.
“Kissing Time,” now at Melbourne Royal,
reached London a month or two back.
Yvonne Arnaud and Phyllis Dare (no longer
the boom she was in the picture-postcard
period) have the parts filled here by Gladys
Moncrieff and Maud Fane j Tom Walls
(Peter Doody in the Australian production
of “The Arcadians”) is the amorous Colonel
Boliuger (played at the Royal by Arthur
Stigant), and the part of Max ToqUet.
through which Leslie Holland walks like a
trotting stallion with tender feet, is filled in
the London production by Australin Fred
Leslie.
“Orb”: It isn't only this season that
N. S. Wales and Queensland country
districts have a surfeit of tent entertain-
ments. The business of “following Up the
shows” is badly overdone, and has been
for years. Just before the War started I
was in the little town of Cowra (N.S.W.),
and on Show night the local cocky was
expected to patronise Philip Lytton, drama
under canvas; Robert Hollyford, ditto:
Stanley McKay, tented pantomime; St.
Leon's circus and menagerie; a buck-
jumping -turnout; a vaudeville outbreak in
the local hall; and Heaven only knows how
many merry-go-rounds, shooting galleries,
boxing booths and sundries.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: I think “Ox” (B,
12/2/’2O) is in error in saying that Charles
Wheatleigh was robbed by Melbourne pirates
while he was playing Danny Mann in “Col-
leen Bawn’’ in Sydney. He was, at any rate,
the first to play Danny Mann in Melbourne,
I saw the opening performance at the old
Princess's. The cast was as follows: Danny
Mann, Wheatleigh ; Myles, Richard Stewart ‘
Father Tom, C. W. Barry; Hardress Cregan.
Henry Edwards; Kyrle Daly, Tom Fawcett;
Corrigan, John Dunn : Eily O’Connor, Rosa
Dunn; Ann Chute. Fanny Young; Mrs.
Cregan, Mrs. Guerin (wife of Richard
Stewart and mother of Nellie) ; Sheelah,
Kate Corcoran. Wheatleigh also played a
small piece in which he was a Frenchman:
but he relied upon Boucicault’s < “Colleen
Bawn.” He made a second visit to Mel-
bourne, but that was a “frost” —the novelty
of “Colleen Bawn” had worn off. It had
been produced several times, at the Princess’s,
with James Milne as Danny. “The Octo-
roon” was first produced at the same old
theatre by Madame Marie Duret. She had
the rights of the play. American copyright
did not run in Australia: hence the produc-
tion of their pieces when Duret and Wheat-
leigh left. Of the players mentioned above
there are still living, one in London, the other
in Paris, two actresses who charmed Mel-
bourne in the late ’fifties —Rose Edouin
(Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis) and Rosa Dunn
(Mrs. L. L. Lewis). The Lewises, by the
way, were not related. Both Rose and Rosa
were under engagement at one and the same
time when George Fawcett had the old Prin-
cess’s in Spring-street and was managing, in
conjunction with Henry Edwards, the old
Royal in Bourke-street for G. V. Brooke.
PEACE AND PLENTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Full ceremonial was revived in connection with
the first State opening of Parliament since 1914.
The King and Qufeen drove through the streets in a
glass coach drawn by six black horses. The scene
in the House of Lords was unusually brilliant.
Women crowding the galleries vied with each other
in displaying the richest jewels and attire.” — Cable.
The “reconstruction period”
Is here (Hip, Inp, hooray!)
The King drives in a coach of glass,
The burghers cheer to see him pass,
And ev’ryone is gay.
But jam still costs six bob a tin,
And margarine is sour and thin.
The wives of those who won the war
Their satins now may wear;
Although the “crushing income tax”
Paupers of peers has made, large sacks
Of jewels rich and rare
Are still on view; each marchioness
Can sport a bushel, more or less.
Noblesse oblige! The noble dames
To “reconstruct” are free.
All doubts are into darkness hurled;
’Tis plain our arms have made the world
Safe for plutocracy.
Bring forth the gauds, but lately spurned—
The splendid Stone Age has returned!
VICTORIA.
GLEN.


COMMONSENSE ABOUT
Oscillating PORTAL Wall Beds
Now being Successfully Manufactured in Australia.
m
7%
Wi
2#4MS
i p
■:.«
r-^
CONVERTIBLE ONE-BOOM FEAT, shows how room works 34 hours a.day.
One room, with built-in bed, wardrobe and dressing-room space at rear.
AMERICAN BANKERS’ OPINION:
Bankers and Real Estate Loan Men in America, Who
Have Financed Buildings Representing Many Millions
Sterling, Consider the Compact Apartment (Flat),
With Oscillating Wall Beds, the Greatest Revenue-
Producer, as well as the Best Type of Security.
THERE IS NO HOME in existence that could not be improved
by the addition of Wall Beds. No home ever will be built that
will not be more complete—-more able to meet emergencies—more
comfortable —more saleable—by the incorporation of Wall Beds.
ELIMINATION OF BEDROOMS, simply for the sake of
eliminating rooms, is not always desirable. For the man who
builds a pretentious home, room reduction and retrenchment form
no attraction.
BUT WALL BEDS CLEVERLY CONCEALED on Back and
Front verandahs are delightful sleeping places for members of
the family or for guests. Such arrangements are welcomed by
any home-owner or speculative builder.
To those who wish SMALL HOMES or MODERN LABOR-
SAVING FLATS, the Wall Bed is the means of room economy
without any sacrifice of comfort or space limitations.
The Oscillating Portal
Wall Bed
is so cleverly concealed that
the room in which it is installed
is entirely free from any
suggestion of a bedroom. It
has its purpose for every home
—the palatial, the medium,
and the modest. In all, it
adds convenience.
Where ROOM REDUCTION
is the purpose, Wall Beds effect
tremendous savings in space
and money, reduce housework,
furnishings and decorating as
well. It behoves every
BUILDER and ARCHITECT
to understand Wall Beds
thoroughly, so that he can
make suggestions appreciated
by prospective home-owners.
T 1 177 77 V 7
—7
»
n
n
For in- and out-door sleeping.
Ideal for country homes.
The bed and bedding intact are put away from soot, rain and duststorms in
instant.
Interesting Residential Fiat Floor Plan and Illustrated
Book Post Free on Application .
Specially Adapted for
Residential Flats.
So necessary has a disappearing
bed become to the Modern Flat,
Residence or Bungalow, that few
projects are planned without giv-
ing the OSCILLATING PORTAL
WALL BED most serious con-
sideration.
RECEIVED HIGHEST AWARDS
and Gold Medal at International
Exhibition, 1915, San Francisco.
Revolve in 22in. radius. The Wall
Bed Furniture when attached
to the front saves wall space.
The built-in wardrobe costs prac-
tically nothing. Built-in ward-
robes should be in every home.
Let us explain the patented con-
struction—the eccentric arm and
oscillating lever which permit
a full-sized bed to completely
revolve in the exceedingly shallow
space of 22 inches, less than half
its width. Call and see how the
same bed swings from the bed-
room to the verandah, and vice
versa, with bedding intact, in an
instant, when built in exterior
walls of your building.
If You Wish to Investigate the Merits of Our Wall Beds,
write to any of the following:—
Temperance and General Assurance Co. Flats,
Elizabeth street, Sydney (125 in use 3 years).
N.S.W. Savings Bank Commissioners’ Flats, Liver-
pool Street, Sydney.
Commonvveath Bank, Pitt Street.
“Tottenham Court” Flats, Woolcott Street, Dar-
linghurst.
“Tredenor” Flats, Darling Point Road, Darling
Point.
“Dungowan” Flats, Manly.
“Durham Court” Flats, Glebe- Point.
“Lansdowne” Flats, 295 Edgecliff Road, Woollahra.
“lieanah” Flats,” East Crescent Street, McMahon’s
Point.
“Havelock” Flats, Arden Street, Coogee.
Mr. A. A. Marks’ Flats, William Street, Darlinghurst.
“Shell Cote,” Mansions, Shell Cote Avenue, Neutral
Bay.
“Chardon” Flats, Waratah Street, Rushcutter Bay.
Mr. N. Aronson’s Flats, Harriett Street, Neutral Bay.
Peterkin Chambers, Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Sabiel Chambers, Hunter Street, Sydney.
“The Cecil,” Macquarie Street, Sydney.
“Mercedes,” Bavswater Road, Darlinghunst.
Mr. A. Rae’s Flats, Avoca Street, Randwick.
“Rushton” Flats, Waratah Street, Rushcutter Bay.
“Lowick” Flats, 45 Ocean Beach, Manly.
Miss M. Shaw’s Flats, 46 Ocean Beach, Manly.
Mrs. S. E. Thomas’ Flats, 26-28 Ocean Beach, Manly.
“Hawarden,” Darlinghurst Road, Darlinghurst.
“Waratah” Hotel, Bayswater Road, Darlinghurst.
“Melton” Flats, Potts Point.
“St. Michael” Flats, Hunter S'treet, City.
“Beresford” Flats, Burton Street, City.
AND TO BE INSTALLED IN NEW
PLATS by John Kirkpatrick & Son, in Mel-
bourne and Brisbane ; A. Wright, Architect, Old
South Head Road and Darling Point Road and
Manly ; Budden and Greenwell, Architects, Flats,
Coogee; B. Hadley, Architect, Flats, top of
William Street, Darlinghurst; Vennard and Allen,
Architects, Elizabeth Bay and College Street: A.
Carton, Architect, Cremorne; Ross and Rowe,
Coogee; McCredie and Anderson, Stanmore;
Mould and Mac Walker, Coogee; Burcham Clamp
and McKellar, Darlinghurst: Claude Hamilton,
Bondi; Miller and Stacy, William Street; C.
Backhouse, Phillip Street; E. Orchard, Darling-
hurst : Kaberry and Chard, Ivirribilli; W. New-
man, Bondi, and many others.
“Architecture” Journal, Sydney, says: —“As impervious to vermin as the side of a china cup,
and ventilation fully provided for.”
“Building: Magazine,” Sydney —That peerless Trade Journal, says:—“A natty and ingenious
piece of furniture. The idea is clever.”
(The Editor has since installed the Wall Bed in his private suite, and highly recommends same to
those who contemplate building.)
ENDORSED BY THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
IN HOUSING PROBLEMS.
t
;: : >3l
m
BMgg
m
Two rooms, with two built-in wall beds and wardrobes; sliding doors
divide two rooms. l'or the labor-saving modern home and flats.
BED CO.
Sole Distributing Agents—
Denison House, 380 George Street,
Near Q.P.0., SYDNEY.
INTERSTATE AGENTS—
BROOKS, ROBINSON & CO., LTD., Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. .
ALLAN & STARK, LTD., Queen Street. Brisbane.
DAVIS, BROWNE and CO., Ltd., Hindley Street, Adelaide.
WM. SANDOVER & CO.. Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
FAIRBAIRN & HENDERSON, LTD., Stuart Street, Dunedin, New Zealand.
CONCERNING Portal Wall Bed is protected by three Australian Patent Rights, and any person infringing will be liable under Pa tent Caws of Australia.


Quality
In nothing does Quality count so much as
in Diamonds. STEWART DAWSON’S
are the largest cash purchasers of precious
stones in the Commonwealth, and the
stability of their Diamond Ring Values is
recognised by thousands of clients.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS.
Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
PERTH (Aust.).
REGENT STREET (LONDON).
STEWART DAWSON’S
Largest Jewellers of the Empire.
GB74 —Fine
Quality Diamond
Cluster Ring, set in
Platinum and 18-ct.
Gold, £2O
K3ll—Dainty Two-
Stone Diamond
Crossover Ring, set
in Platinum and
IPet r-old,
£lO/10/-
KBs2—Fine Quality
Diamond Crossover
Ring, set in Pure
Platinum and 18 ct.
Gold, £l7/10/-
K 357 —I-mo Pearl
and Diamond
Cluster Ring, set in
Pure Platinum and
18 e t Hold,
£l2/10/-
K432—New Style
Diamond Cluster
r.imr, set in Pure
l’launum and
Cold, £l5/10/-
K43o—Reouti'ul
Design, set with
First Qualitv
Diamonds in Dure
Platinum and 18 et.
Gold, £B5
fe-
ats
K923—New
Cluster King, Finest
Quality Diamonds,
set in Pure Platinum
and 18 et. Gold,
£33
Diamonds.
Call at any of the Stewart Dawson
Establishments and inspect their beauti-
ful assortment of Diamond Ring Designs,
which is continually being added to.
Remember only high-grade stones have a
permanent value.
All Diamonds set in Pure Platinum.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS.
Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRIST-
CHURCH, DUNEDIN (N.Z.).
HATTON GARDEN (LONDON).
STEWART DAWSON’S
Write for Latest Catalogue.
POVERTY
POINT
T[?]T & Chandon
DRY IMPERIÀL
CHÀMPÀGNE
Exquisite
Gaby Deslys, Manoel of Portugal’s old
flame, who died last week under an opera-
tion, had suffered from ex-ophthalmic goitre
for years; and that is probably what
killed her.
“Little Lon”: In the “Sentimental Bloke”
picture Bill makes a great fuss over his new
boots, and his high collar “sawing off his
ears.” After leaving Ma’s little crib Bill
sits down on the kerb and removes one of
GREGAN McMAHON, producer for
the Taits.
the offending boots. Of course all this
“business” in the book and on the screen
catches a laugh. But it’s not truth. The
Sentimental Blokes of this sunny land know
how to wear collars and nice boots, and
pride themselves on doing it. I can call to
mind very well known “toughs” who had
the hallmark of fashion —and knew it; and
I appeal for justice on behalf of our many
well-dressed “blokes” -who have stouslied a
“flamin’ cop.”
“G. 8.”: Madeline Rossitter, the dark-
skinned dancer and musician whose broad
smile and nimble feet were popular with
Australian audiences for some years, is to
be married to Bill Oily, a well-known
Calcutta newspaper man. Madeline intend^
continuing her contracts in India and Eng-
land, after which she and her husband pur-
pose coming to the Commonwealth.
“Old Pot” : It is almost 35 years ago that
Mrs. Brough came to Australia with her hus-
band under engagement to Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove. Then billed as
Florence Trevellyan, she supported Frank
Thornton in “The Private Secretary” at the
old Gaiety in Sydney. After “La Petite
Mademoiselle” proved a failure at the
Royal the firm staged Gilbert and Sullivan’s
“lolanthe,” and Florence Trevellyan was
transferred to the opera and created the
Fairy Queen. Robert Brough, a clever
cornediau of the parchment type, got a good
deal of humor out of the French Robert
Macaire in “La Petite,” but the public d d
not cotton to the thing, and that was the
end of it. Brough’s Lord Chancellor was a
great piece of work and has not been equalled
in the Commonwealth, where George
Grossmith’s understudy. Frank Thornton,
played it, but only in Melbourne. Charles
Workman is sa'd to be the best of all the
Chancellors. Beyond any doubt the worst
was Waleyn, whom George Lauri ran close.
The last Fairy Queen was Ethel Morr'son,
the statuesque lady who supported Marie
Tempest and Graham Browne. She left
comic opera to take up comedy ; Mrs. Brough
reversed the process.
“10350” : Saw the “Ginger Mick” film run
through the other night. Noticed in the
landing at Anzac scene two Diggers, of whom
one wore the colors of the “Eggs-a-cook” turn-
out, and the other the diamond of the .Second
Division. Furthermore, they appeared to be
the colors of the machine-gun battalions
which were not even formed till well over
two years later. Pity the makers didn’t get
a soldier to check these little details that
make all the difference.
“Norbell”: The members of the German
Opera Co. which George Musgrove imported
were a difficult mob to handle. Before the
curtain went up each night they would try
their costly voices on the stage—“Mi-mi-mi-
mi-mi !”—and then noisily clear their throats
and spit bountifully on the floor. At last
Muzzy’s S.M., Albert Myers, posted a notice
on the call-board requesting the ladies and
gentlemen to refrain from expectorating on
the stage. That night as the artists came
from their dressing-rooms they showed their
appreciation of the notice by spitting
copiously, every lady and gentleman of them,
on the call-board itself.
Puccini {so the cable says) has interned
himself in a lonely tower near Ortobello in
order to concentrate on a three-act opera
with an English Elizabethan setting, based
on the story of Christopher Sly from the
“Taming of the Shrew.” The tenor is to
get most of the fat, but soprano and bari-
tone are down for a fair helping.
“Gee”: I remember the days when
references to Footseray on the Melbourne
stage earned a yell of joy; but persons
instead of' places have come in for use now.
Walter Kirby is it these days, with Billy
Hughes second. Jack Cannot at the King's
pulls an imitation of Walter’s moustache
from his pocket and shoves it on. The house
sees the likeness and roars. Then Cannot
gives an imitation of the silvery tenor, and
the item is a great success. At Her
Majesty’s panto, the Dame says “Let us
Kirb,” and once more there is a roar of joy.
Kirby could easily defeat them by removing
the famous moustache; but perhaps he is
quite alive to its advertising value.
“M.P.A.”: May Martin Wirth, the bare-
h°Gc horsewoman who doubled up with Frank
White at the “Little Church Around the
Corner” in New York recently, had a
representative circus backing for the deed.
John, Charles and Bob Ringling, the greatest
men in the business, came up from the
south for the occasion, John Ringling giving
the bride away. Bert Levy, Clyde Cook,
Mrs. Martin Wirth and other Australians
helped to dress the pews. After the
ceremony a hundred circus and stage folks
went to the Hotel Astor, where luncheon
was served. In the centre of the table
stood a huge wedding-cak; with a model of
May’s favorite nag topping the affair.
Writer has watched the intrepid Australian
girl make good in the business since she did
her first little bending act. Like many
another Australian artist, she had to present
her goods abroad to the world of circus and
vaudeville to obtain full recognition of her
qualities. Her husband is a Melbourne pro-
duct who has won to the front by sheer
energy. His mail reaches him at New York,
where he does business as a circus and
vaudeville agent, with representatives in
most parts of the globe. He is Philip and
George Wirth’s agent when the brothers
require acts for their “greatest show on
earth.”
“Ike Pagliacci”: Ben J. Fuller signed up
John Lawson, the Jewish actor, for an Aus-
tralian season commencing at Easter. His
one-act plays brought him tremendous
salaries from English music-halls, and he
won an enduring reputation for stagecraft
with “Only a Jew,” “Humanity” and W. W.
Jacobs’s bovrilised horror, “The Monkey’s
Paw.” Lawson, who has added a Disraeli
play to his repertoire', will have a company
of 10, and will provide the whole night’s fun
and ferocity.
“Pish Tush”: I am quite unconscious of
the implication which seems to have rutiled
• jAtirplay” (B 12/2/’2O), and I think
there was nothing in my par. suggesting
time any criuc had submitted to managerial
influence, even if influence had been at-
tempted. I simply drew attention to the
tactics of certain self-appointed boosters of
a comedian who were apparently equal to
any slander to uphold a bad case. “Fair-
play” speaks superiorly about “listening to
whispers,” but if a similar i.uel affectaig his
fair fame as a critic had been dropped into
his ear not by one, but by several, probably
he would have listened also, and raked the
dictionary of melodrama to defend himself.
LOCATING THE MISTAKE.
COUSIN JACE: “I’ll tell ’ee wha’s wrong,
Billy, m'dear. See that crotchet?”
COUSIN BILLY : “Iss.”
COUSIN JACK : “See that dot after un ?”
COUSIN BILLY: “Iss.”
COUSIN JACK: “Well, thee aren’t blawin’
that there dot ”
“Front Line” : The chorus is coming into
its own. Some Yank shows have adopted the
System of holidays by relays. If 32 girls
.are. employed, only 30 of them appear weekly,
the other two resting on full pay. The idea
is likely to keep the front line blooming and
a permanent jcy to the baldheads. In Aus-
tralia organisation lias given the stage
mechanist and property man the right to
annual holidays, but the hard-worked chorus-
girl gets nothing for rehearsals and no vaca-
tion, and if she drops out of the show with
a sprained ankle her salary stops dead.
“Vaudeville Vet.” : “Twenty years of
Spoof and Bluff,” reviewed by The Bul-
letin (22/l/’2O), is just the kind of unusual
publication one might expect from Carlton,
the conjurer, the most unorthodox star in
vaudeville. In the days of the Rickards first
parts he provided any amount of impromptu
fun. I seldom laugh now as I did the even-
ing Carlton in his weird hairpin make-up
and extensive bald head took a place on the
corner (though that wasn’t his part of the
show) and pretended he was quite new to
the minstrel business. The interlocutor
grasped the opportunity offered and held his
end up. He explained to the new corner-
man that all he had to do was to join the
choruses. The first chorus went “He tiddly
hi ti turn ti tee,” which was easy* and Carl-
ton joined in lustily. Then followed a soul-
ful balladist with a song about mother. At
the first pause Carlton joined in heartily,
“He tiddly hi ti turn ti tee.” I don’t know
what the management thought of it, but the
audience went into hysterics. Carlton
apparently never wanted to go home. I have
frequently seen him with his make-up on long
after all but the caretaker had gone to bed,
and if the show ended with a farce he invari-
ably managed to butt into it. His business
methods were equally eccentric, for while
still a huge success with his conjuring and
chatter, and likely to continue so for years,
he scoured Europe looking for freaks to
introduced into a “cod” hypnotic act.
“Blackout” : The pun, which flourished in
Gaiety and other burlesque for a long period,
ending in the early ’nineties, is reintroduced
in iviss-ng Time. It is not clear whether
the revival is clue to the compilers of the
play or to Theodore Leonard. When Glad™
Moncrieff says: “Oh, but he’s a chef car
excellence,” Leonard replies ;“I d on ’t care
if he's a chiffonier. I won’t have that chef
in here.” This is about the most brilliant
sample. If it is the latest English humor I
prefer Australian.
“I am delighted at being back in England
once more, and now I am here I never want
to go away again,” Melba told the London
Music Club. The remark, with a different
geographical noun, sounds familiar. When
she tore herself away from her native
land she was going to suffer an unqualified
hump until she could get back again.
“Petramos” : I weep at “Norbell’s” picture
(B. 29/l/’2O) of touring pros, kept out of
beds by callous country landlords. I ween
because I, too, have looked in vain for
lodgings in the one-night stands. Individual
pros., however, have hardened the lot of the
profesh generally and
driven publicans to
look on all theatricals
as sinners. My dad
kept a country hotel
and welcomed any
visitors with good
money, but in the end
he had to turn the
fishy eye on the tour-
ing show. I hated to
believe it, but some of
those actors and
actresses did take the
soap, and some of
them did take the
towels. Those that
didn’t pinch the acces-
sories were perfectly
genteel. They asked
for supper (“just a
few sandwiches or
some cold meat, you
know”) after 'the
Show. The leading
lady wanted a ho t
bath prepared and her
breakfast served in
bed, with the eggs
»cooked just so. All at
“professional” rates of
two-thirds the ordinary
tariff, with a chance
that Bung mightn’t
8' e t anything ! And
previously the
advance-agent had
been along, borrowed
the sample-room to lay out his printing, and
cadged a little flour from the cook, with the
use of a boilerful of hot water and maybe
the kitchen bucket for his paste.
‘‘One and a Penny”: I don’t get my bob’s
worth of art at concerts where the make
of the piano is displayed in big brass letters
on the side of the instrument. While the
pianist is rippling dreams from the keyboard
I keep on wondering if the “Tinkettle” is
really the best piano obtainable; and how-
many years it would take to buy one T.P.
Can’t the piano manufacturers be' satisfied
with advertising on the programmes, or
couldn’t the pianists as a body refuse to
play on hoardings?
ADVICE TO A YOUNG ACTRESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘‘There were no flash clothes about these chorus-
srirls to set one wondering about their morals. The
few well-dressed ones were accompanied bv mothers,
who looked comfortably prosperous.” —Sydney Sunday
paper rhapsodist.
Never, dearie, be without a mother;
You can hire one tor a trilling wage.
If she takes to drink secure another.
No one of distinction on the stage
Dreams of scurrying around alone from place to place.
Each requires a lady (known as Ma) to save her face.
Always take your Ma with you to supper
When your host is someone you detest —•
One of those you greet as “Dad ’ or “Pupper.”
Chide him if he damns her as a pest.
When you’re with your “pash,” however, send her
home to bed,
Saying, “Ma, regard yourself, and me, pro tern., as
dead.”
Do not fail to bring your Ma to parties
Given by the fashionable set:
It will draw the Algernons and Arties
Right into the meshes of your net.
“What a sweet, domesticated innocent she is!”
You will hear them sighing, drunk with love of
you—and fizz.
Give your Ma your jewel-ease to carry
(Taking care no jewels are inside).
Have her somewhere handy when you marry
(Never, never be a Ma-less bride).
And you'll take the dear old soul along with you,
of course.
When, a few months later, you apply for your divorce.
N.S.W.
D. B. J.
CUSTOM AND ENVIRONMENT.
(And perhaps a little drink.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We all knew Walt Montgomery Jones,
Our childhood’s schoolmate here at Gee;
And still his coy, infantile tones
We recollected perfectly.
At four he was the township’s pride,
Reciting where a feast was held—
He was admitted far and wide
A prodigy unparalleled.
No visitor of any note
Could come to Gee but we would call
Him in, and have our Walter quote
Long poems to him in the Hall.
For years to us it seemed no din
Could in that Hall the echoes cheek
Of Walter’s little treble in
“The Boy Stood on the Burning Deck.’’
He went away, and he became
An actor man, superbly tall;
And now would justify his fame
As Romeo in our old Hall.
- We greeted him with splendid zest,
And feasted him with ham and such;
He drank right gladly of our best —
Perhaps he drank a thought too much.
When night came, and upon the stage
He ventured forth, fair Romeo,
Applauding him with frantic rage
We stayed the play awhile. Then, lo!
Instead of Romeo’s first line,
“Was that my father went so fast?”
Familiar words, if not so fine,
Came trickling to us from the past.
A while we listened; then we knew.
His hand upon his diaphragm,
Sweet Romeo was going through
With “Mary Had a Little Lamb'’!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


P in Everything
First in Purity, First in Efficiency, First in Quality,
First in Results, First in Economy.
And there are many other reasons why Laxo-Tonic Pills are first with the hundreds of thousands of Australians who know their
value, and use them. Do you know that Laxo-Tonic Pills Banish Liver Ills? That they can be taken at all times, and under
all conditions, by both young and old alike, without the slightest risk and without any danger of unpleasant after-effects? That
Laxo-Tonic Pills assist the processes of nature, give relish to the food, removing exhaustion and many other ailments?
Anyone who takes Laxo-Tonic Pills the moment he suspects his Liver or Bowels will never have headaches.
Thousands of people take one every night at bedtime to prevent disorders of the Liver, Constipation, Bad Breath,
Pimples and Headaches. Try them for a week—take one on retiring nightly.
(sßSHffifl
m
ip
Miss VALLERIE LAWSON (from a photo.).
Girls! see what Miss Vallerie Lawson
says of Laxo-Tonic Pills.
I want to write and tell you what a grand Remedy I think
/your Laxo-Tonic Pills are, for I do not think there is anything
like them in Australia, or I doubt in the world. When I used to feel
moody, and all out of sorts, I used to sit down and cry, for it did not
seem as if life were worth living, but now I know better than this;
I simply fly to Laxo-Tonic Pills, and quietly swallow two or three
with the confidence that soon I will be feeling quite myself again, for
they never disappoint me.
I have found them a genuine tonic as well as a laxative, and I
have proved them an absolute cure for constipation. The day after
taking them I always feel refreshed and fit to give my undivided
attention to my work, which is taxing to both mind and body. As a
model I often sit for three-quarters of an hour absolutely still, and
to do this satisfactorily I must feel bright and cheerful, and my
nerves must be under perfect control.
I have certainly found Laxo-Tonic Pills a true panacea, and
I take them about once a fortnight or so, and thus keep myself ever
in good spirits and fit condition, I certainly can heartily recommend
them to anyone feeling a bilious attack coming on, for they will
invariably prevent it.
Wishing Laxo-Tonic Pills every success, w r hich I am sure they
deserve, I am, sincerely youis,
( Sgd.) VALLERIE LAWSON.
Ths Bast Tonic and Laxative.
it
3? B
§ 3
I
Mrs.
LOLA ESMOND
(from, a photo.).
I have found your Laxo-Tonic Pills so superior and health-giving that I wish to write you
a word or two in praise of them.
I first tried them on the recommendation of a friend, and my first impression of them was a
good one when T found they were so dainty and so nicely got up in their sealed glass containers.
I can only speak of things as I find them myself, and I have found Laxo-Tonic Pills much superior to any other medicine or pills of the
same nature. As a laxative they are mild and gentle, and as a tonic appreciably beneficial; then, too, I find you can always leave off taking them
just when you wish, with no chance of forming any pill-taking habit. Knowing myself how good they are, it is surprising to me that you can afford
to sell them at retail for 1/- a bottle and 2/- for the large-size bottles. Personally, I always buy the large bottles, for I find it is cheaper, as they
contain more than double the amount of Pills. I shall always highly recommend them to my friends, and in a climate like Australia I should
think you would have an immense sale for Laxo-Tonic Pills. Sincerely yours, LOLA ESMOND.
df
df
Sapper
HAINESWOOD
(from a photo.).
“Everyone Needs a Laxo-Tonic Pill Now and
Again,’’ says Sapper Haineswood.
Just a word of praise for a truly good remedy—Laxo-Tonic
Pills. I think they are splendid. In this climate everyone needs
a pill now and again, and Laxo-Tonic Pills are so easy to take, and
leave you feeling so well afterwards. They give me an appetite
and make me relish my food. I used to suffer from headache, and
pimples, occasionally, but now if I feel that either is coming on I
know that Laxo-Tonic Pills will fix me right at once and prevent
any such trouble. Yours truly, (Sgd.) R. HAINESWOOD, H.R.F.,
25 Reinforcements of the Ist Signal Co., A.I.F.
“After a couple of Laxo-Tonic Pills
I feel that the world is mine,”
says Mr. Alf Woodside.
Just a line, from one who thoroughly appreciates your fine
remedy—Laxo-Tonic Pills. I have tried all sorts of medicines for
biliousness and constipation, but they have in turn, left me worse off
than before. A pal of mine recommended me Laxo-Tonic Pills, and
I must say they more than bore out all he said of them. They are
the last word in effectiveness for bilious headache and for a general
feeling of grouch. Afer a couple of Laxo-Tonic Pills I feel that the
world is mine. Wishing your remedy continued success,
I am, yours sincerely,
(Sgd.) J. ALF WOODSIDE.
“Craigielee,” 40 Craigend Street, Darlingliurst.
w
8
Mr. ALF
I VOODSIDE
{from a
vhoto.).
LAXO-TONIC PILLS BANISH LIVER ILLS.
No matter how bad your stomach, liver or bowels, how much your head aches, or how miserable or uncomfortable you
are from constipation, indigestion, biliousness and sluggish liver, you will soon be right again, and that quickly too, if you use
Laxo-Tonic Pills. Don’t let your stomach, liver and bowels mak ; 3 you miserable. Take Laxo-Tonic Pills to-night and thus put
an end to the headache, biliousness, dizziness and all other signs of Liver Distress. Cleanse your inside organs of all bile, gases
and constipated matter, which is producing the misery. A small box of Laxo-Tonic Pills means health, happiness and a clear
head for months.
They immediately sweeten the stomach, remove the sour, undigested and fermented food and foul gases, take the excess
bile from the liver, and carry off the constipated matter from the bowels; then your stomach trouble is ended. Take two Laxo-
Tonic Pills to-night before retiring. The morning will find you with clear head and a vigor and brightness as surprising as it is
delightful. These Pills are a tonic laxative, cleanse the system, and act directly on the liver. No more days of gloom and distress
if you take a Laxo-Tonic Pill now and then. Obtainable everywhere, in sealed glass containers. Price, 1/-. Large size, price 2/-.
r.
y


Wanted to Buy.
PLATINUM at £3O an ounce. We desire to buj
anv quantities.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD., 23 Hunter St., Sydne,.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & 60., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and CCOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
soie Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &WMITTY
MEI
Oil
>ollf\NE& SYDNEY
Australian Slate Flagging
From MINTARO, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
is and was always FIRST for SIZE AND QUALITY.
Exhibits of Stone sent to the International Exhibition in London, Sydney,
Melbourne and Adelaide WON FIRST HONORS against the world, rina-
elass for Bread, Cheese and Butter Factories; Electricians and Buiiai
Table Makers; for Wine Vats, Lavatories, Urinals, Street Flagging am
all Building purposes.
Unrivalled for Acid Resisting and Salting Tanks.
Can be procured in any quantity, thickness or size. Sizes at the Quarries
up to 100 feet by 20 feet by (5 inches. Write for particulars and pm • ■
THE MANAGER,
Mintaro Slate & Flagstone Co.,
Ltd.,
Sturt Street, South Melbourne.
THE MANAGER,
Mintaro, South Australia,
QUARRIES & HEAD WORKS.
DAVID J. GORDON, Secretary, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
An entirely satisfactory feature or me
facing at Caulfield last Saturday was the victory of
Artilleryman in the nine furlongs w.f.a. race. The
Cup winner had Cetigne, Eusebius, Sir Ibex and
Chrome to beat, and he did it like a champion;
never at the front until the distance post was at
hand, he then ran up to Cetigne with a decisive
sprint. Artilleryman has, seemingly, done very well
since November,' and is going to contribute a lot
more stake money to the coffers of S’Samuel. He
would have been hard to beat in the Futurity Stakes,
if he had undertaken the journey, notwithstanding
that he was asked to carry 441b. more than the
bottom weight.
Wedge’s running was the most unsatisfactory item
of the day. Stable money brought this fine and large
representative of The Welkin family to nine to two
for the Oakleigh Plate, but he had never a look in.
Getting slowly away from the barrier he stayed
remote from the leaders all the time. He looks well
and was said to have won a great trial that week;
nevertheless his slowness at the starting gate and
subsequent lack of dash seemed to make it doubtful
whether he will ever again be the Wedge who beat
Desert Gold for the Futurity Stakes two years ago. and
then ran third to Cetigne and Poitrina for the New-
market, giving each of them 71b. The hand of
time has probably touched him ungently. Or experi-
ence has made him crafty, and not often willing to
try his darnedest. One never knows what’s in the
mind of a horse when the colors are up.
Molly’s Robe won the Oakleigh almost front end to
end, after which came a general admission that the
generous young' mare ought to have been first
favorite, instead of a 14 to one chance. Her weight
was only a stone more than she carried in the same
race last year, as a three-year-old, when Cielo luckily
beat her by a head, and all things considered she was
weil handicapped. Her record for her first two sea-
sons was brilliant —eight wins, four seconds and
twice unplaced. She won the Newmarket w 1 in
7st. 81b. up, after being narrowly defeated at Caul-
field, and in a subsequent w.f.a. race over a mile
only Sir Ibex could beat her. The mare had Green-
stead behind her when he was conceding 111 b. And
now she has won the event she just missed last year.
The consistency of the lady ! She and Gold Tie, also
from Queensland, gave Etive, the two-year-old, no
chance to take the lead, so the idea that this season s
youngster might be above the average was shatteied
as soon as it was apparent that Etive couldn’t rush
to the front. Ernest Clarke’s chestnut filly never
was nearer the front than third, and her position at
the finish was last. During the week Lisnavane had
beaten Etive in a more or less trustworthy trial,
but Lisnavane, like Lannion and Wedge, ran badly.
On the other hand Eudoxus made a rather striking
attempt to catch the winner, and may play a leading
part in the Newmarket. But one got the impression
that Molly’s Robe won fairly easily an that Gold
Tie was, of all her opponents, the one most likely
to beat her down the Flemington straight, always
assuming that this recent arrival at Melbourne will
improve before the day. For the moment it remains
to be seen how Gold Tie will shape in the Futurity,
which looks a more interesting event that usual.
Chrysolaus may prove himself a flier in accordance
with the predictions of rumor, or the grey nag from
Britain may do no better than his compatriot Lannion
did last Saturday. On paper Sir Ibex, the runner-up
to Molly’s Robe in last Newmarket, is well worth
backing for the Futurity.
Carriole put his Australian Cup backers in the
seventh heaven by winning the Bond Cup easily
enough. The gelding gets a penalty for his pains,
but the extra 71b. will not put him at a disadvantage
in the long race. The V.R.C. handicapper was land
to Carriole, yet hardly kinder that he was to
Ard-na-Ree.
“Ken L.” (B 12/2/’2O) was
probably fined his 15s. for buying imported tennis
balls. The Dunlop Cos. makes a good Australian
ball, retailed at 2s. 6d., which I have tried on a
rough country court and found wear exceedingly
well. Some players declare that it hasn’t quite the
spring of the best English balls, but I have tried
all makes and find the Australian article full of
bounce and unusually reluctant to lose its overcoat.
*.* *•*
Ivingscote, revelling in the dry heat of
Adelaide, did not give Roy Taylor, the local tennis
champion, a chance. It was mainly a question of
service. Taylor’s was not difficult, and was often
a double fault. The Englishman served with a twist
of his whole body, and nearly always had Taylor in
trouble. Scores, 6—X, 6—2.
* * * *
Superiority in the singles gave Britain
the rubber in the tennis final with Victoria. Ilawkes
fell to Lowe in a desultory long-distance duel (8 —10,
3 —6), and never showed the confidence and enter-
prise he exhibits when battling with a partner in
a doubles match. Lowe, tethered to the base line
bv a cautious disposition, beat Hawkes by careful
placing of orthodox drives. O’Hara Wood v. Kings-
cote promised some fire at the net, but Wood’s
enthusiasm for following up his service was damped
by Kingscote’s efficiency as
a lobber. liingseote fin-
ished well ahead (6—2,
6 —3), though Wood held
almost a winning position
at 3—o in the second set.
The undecided doubles
tournament was abandoned,
and Hawkes and Wertheim
faced liingseote and Lowe
in a match for the best of
three sets. Hawkes, pro-
bably affected by the heat,
lost much of his sting and
certainty, whereas Wer-
theim struck form and pro-
duced a grand service.
Lowe, a weak and unhappy
performer in doubles, was
overwhelmed, and Kings-
cote, despite some excellent
ground play, was hardly at
home. The Vic.’s win
(6 —2, 6—B, 6 —4) shat-
tered the Englishmen’s
already-damaged halo as
doubles players.
R. WERT HEIM,
who played in the
doubles final with J.
B. Hatches against
Patterson and
Brookes.
“15-307: Inspection of Britain's Davis
Cup three in many matches makes one realise the
great superiority of Ivingscote over his partners Lowe
and Beamish. Lowe impresses one least, mainly
because of his queer girlish service that seems to
pat the ball over with a sort of nervous desperation.
The free, manly swing of Beamish is appealing, and,
though he is more solid than brilliant, he has the
saving grace of graceful saving. Some of his
recoveries are very pretty, considering that he has
the stature of a bodkin and has to bend from a
height to take the ball. Ivingscote is the resource-
ful and plucky fighter who is a terror to the unwary
and keeps the best uneasy with his gallery of
strokes. Apparently equally strong in every phase
of his game, he often has his opponent half-finished
when the latter is searching for a hole in his play.
As regards his alleged foot-faulting, it is very hard
to tell when he offends. Usually the movement of
foot and the service are so nearly simultaneous that
only a quick camera could record whether th.e foot
had stepped over before the ball had left the racquet.
He could easily end all doubt without damaging his
•tennis by serving, like Ilawkes, from behind the
base line.
There is talk in England of a professional
lawn-tennis championship. Tennis pros, do not
abound, but there are a good many scattered about,
in charge of club lawns, and some of them are
reputed to be good enough for anything, without
any chance of proving it.
* * * *
The welcome to Alf Felton at Sydney last
week brought together
a great gathering of old
sculling champions—
Dick Green, Peter
Kemp, burly Jim Stan-
bury, George Towns,
Harry Pearce, Neil
Matterson, Jim Paddon
and J. McLean. That
lot represents over 50
years of the sport.
A new family
rowing-crew has sprung
up in the Speck to
carry on the traditions
of the Boyes family
and other older timers.
At the 82nd Hobart
Regatta the champion
all-comers’ race was a
very easy thing for the
Henleys from the Huon.
They were easily the
evenest and heftiest
crew, too, running like
this: R. Henley (bow),
12st. 101 b. ; M. Henley,
12st. 131 b. ; E. Henley,
12st. 121 b. ; F. Hen-
ley (stroke), 13st. 41b.
ALF D. FELTON,
world's champion
sculler.
In the ninth round of Sydney grade-
cricket not one of the State's representative batsmen
earned his tram-fare on the perfect wickets. Middle
Harbor (120) wilted before Paddington’s attack:
Winning (four for 22) unwound a lot of spin and
was treacherous on a wicket that kept low. Sundries
(30)- helped the Harbor most. Pad. have the game
won with nine down for 150. Roy Minnett got four
of the wickets that fell. Scott bowled ineffectively.
The funereal scoring of Waverley, who were at home
to Central Cumberland, gave them 367 for the after-
noon’s batting, Forssberg (126 n. 0.) liveried up a
bit towards the end, and with Davis (4!) flogged the
tired bowling, but the rest were over-cautious. The
orchardists’ attack comprised seven bowlers, and
none of them improved their averages. Glebe v.
Wests is at an interesting stage. Thanks to
Kelleway (three for 39), the absence of Bardsley and
the fat-headedness of the three batsmen who got
run out, Wests succumbed for 222. K. B. Docker,
Pratten and Single, who each got into the forties,
were almost as slow at the wickets as Glebe were
in the field. Balmain got an unaccustomed leather-
hunting ; Petersham remaining in possession all the
afternoon —402 for seven. The brilliant but uncer-
tain Emery, banging at everything, got 126, not out.
G. Thatcher’s 87 was made by solid play, but was
lacking in strokes. Balmain remained keen in the
field to the end. Sydney’s 125 (Asher 41) was not
much of a task to set North’s strong batting side.
The dependable Hogue (four for 25) bowled well for
Norths, and the fielding was first class. Watts (41)
and Renshaw (48) saved Gordon from utter 'collapse
against ’Varsity. The suburbanites were only aide
to put up 143 against Trenerry (three for 31) and
Best (three for 25). To this the' young gentlemen
responded rather brutally with 233 for four (Boyce
83, Bogle 58 and Donovan 46).
St. Kilda suffered the heaviest defeat in
Melbourne district cricket on Saturday. Melbourne
beat them by three wickets and 379 on the first hits,
Armstrong and Ransford (264 n.o. and 124 n. 0.)
producing the surplus between them. Armstrong
was in great form, and, barring one chance at 31, he
played perfect cricket; and so did Ransford, who
showed all his old brilliancy. East’s straight-out
win by nine wickets against Oollingwood was another
good performance. ’Wood, following their first
innings of 72 with 166, left East 144 to get. After
the loss of McAlister’s wicket Baring and Scott
hammered up the needful, carrying their bats for
65 and 69. P’ran, whose two tries realised 149 and
188, were doomed as soon as ’Cote’s star batsman,
Yeomans, got busy. He made 91 n.o. in capital
style, the final total of 207 for one wicket (Carroll
43 and Woodbury 46 n. 0.) giving ’Cote the match by
nine wickets and three runs. Carlton lost to ’Roy
by 107 on the first innings. The only bright spot
in ’Roy’s batting was the 83 n.o. of Lansdown.
Carroll (106 n. 0.) was Essendon’s hero, only two
others reaching double figures out of a total of 219,
which left University 145 behind. North Melbourne,
closing at eight, for 195 against Richmond’s 165, tried
hard for a straight-out win, but Richmond mortgaged
the afternoon, making 118, so North had to be con-
tent with a first-innings victory by 30 runs.
*• # * *
Adelaide has seen some exciting cricket.
East Torrens, the leading club, was in danger of
losing to Port Adelaide, which had made 194 and
taken four for 65. With Middleton (married),
Townsend (hurt) and Wilson (on holiday) all away,
Torrens needed a special effort; and it was made by
wicket-keeper Schultz, who hit up 83 and won the
game. Sturt, only one point behind the leaders on
the premiership list, also looked in danger to West
Torrens, but the bowling of Willsmore and Lucas
pulled them through. The same day saw two big
surprises. Adelaide declared at nine for 321, but
University hit up 353 for two wickets (L. V. Pellew
130, Hone 117, Jose not out 90). And North
Adelaide declared with eight for 330 against the
usually ineffective Glenelg; then felt as though a
sheep had savagely bitten them when the seasiders
passed that total with only four wickets down
(veteran Quist 134).
* * * *
When Sid Godfrey (9st. 311 b.) got the
decision over Harry Holmes (9st. 41b.) at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night about half the considerable
audience howled “Robbery!” Holmes’s right swings
were more spectacular than Godfrey’s orthodox two-
handed work. On the other hand, his misses were
frequent. It was a remarkably close thing at the
finish, so close that no one but the man in the ring
was in a position to decide on which side the balance
rested.
Cabled that “Kid” Lewis has £5OOO
backing for a Championship-of-Europe fight with
Carpentier, When the albino Yid was here in 1914
he boxed as a lightweight, losing in Melbourne at
that poundage to Herb McCoy. He won his earlier
scraps as a feather. Two years later he was boxing
welters; he beat Harry Stone in America in 1916
Then he began to fight middleweights and performed
creditably in a no-decision affair with Mike Gibbon*
But Gibbons is going down hill, and he never was a
Carpentier, anyhow'. Taking it for all in all, it is
likely that Lewis’s clamor for the Frenchman ’ repre-
sents chiefly the advertising side of his profession
for which he always had an aptitude. ’
The States of U.S.A. all make their own
laws about boxing, and Jimmy Wilde, the little
Welsh wonder, ran against one of them which was
too much for him. Wisconsin does not allow a
fight between men who differ more than 101 b
Wilde, to make a match, undertook to box at Tst
91b., and had to train up to that. The extra pound-
age made him too slow to win.
* * * *
Adelaide is much interested in a cable
that its new Governor, Weigall, will establish a
racing stable. Most of his predecessors have been
attendants at race meetings, but have looked on
the sport as a kind of picnic. It is half a century
since any of them took a hand as owner. Weigail
is not long married to the only daughter of Blundell
Maple, who was a leading owner on the English
turf anywhere from 10 to 20 years back.
* * * «
Someone with plenty of pluck has made
an exact estimate of the value to a team of every
man playing polo in Adelaide at present. The list
gives seven points to each of the Law Smiths
(Harold and Gordon) and to the veteran Frank
Downer. Hugh Crawford is by himself with” six,
Colley and the two Cudmores are five, Cecil Bray
and Charlie Downer four, and a dozen others also
run.
* * *
“6th A.L.H.”: I wonder if “H.S.H.” (B.
5/2/’2O) expected to find rough-riders in Rotten
Row any more than in Centennial Park or along
St. Kilda-road ? Some of us found that a day’s
hunting in the shires put us on our mettle in the
company of superb lior emen. Had he been near
Ludd, in Palestine, in the summer of 1918, when
the Camel Corns was transformed into the oth
Light Horse Brigade, “H.S.H.” would have been
surprised at the number of Auss'es who had to learn
to ride. He would have been able to exercise his
wit on more than half of them.
This year’s five-mile swimming handicap
through Perth went to Norman Blurton, a 16-year-
old lad, who did the distance in 2hr. 9min. lOsec.
Ex-Digger W. Reed (scratch) put up fastest time
(lhr. 51min.), and later won the half-mile handicap
(from scratch), and the Westralian mile champion-
ship. Harold Kingsbury (another returned soldier)
won the quarter-mile championship. They all come
from Kalgoorlie, where the bath-water has to be
pumped 400 miles.
* * * *
Fanny Durack cleaned up the remaining
free v -style items on the N.S.W. Ladies’ A.S.A. champion-
ship list at Sydney last week. Mina Wylie was
an- absentee, and the champion was 25yds. to the
good in the 220yds. She took 3min. 3 2-ssee.,
which is 11 2-ssec. behind her own world’s record.
She won the 440yds. by a lap in 6min. 29sec.
Elsie Venning (Q.) took the other championship,
the 100yds. breast-stroke, in lmin. 31sec.
“Murkali”: As at present conducted,
swimming is a hybrid sport. The contests ale
invariably commenced with a standing leap. Any-
one prepared to argue that jumping is swimming?
But my principal growl is at the turns. Years ago
when Cecil Healy swam the Yankee piedish cham-
pion Daniels it was the latter’s undoubted superi-
ority at trick-turning that enabled him to beat the
otherwise superior Australian. Trick-turning or back-
somersaulting isn’t swimming either. Contests
should start from water-level with tuns at a rope.
S. F. Cotton (North Sydney) surprised
local swimmers on Saturday bv licking Keith Kirk-
land for Northern Suburbs 220yds. championship.
Time 2min. 35sec.; which is within 7sec. of the
world’s record.
Alf Grenda’s furious sprint in the 10-mile
scratch whirl brought the Sydney cycling carnival to
an effective end last week. The race was the longest
of the season, and only wheels separated Grenda,
C. J. Walker and Bob Spears at the finish. The
time (23min. 52 2-ssec.) was a record for the track.
Earlier in the night Spears defeated Grenda in two
straight heats, of 'a special mile match.
An Australian motor-cycle record went
overboard at Yepoon Beach (0.) when E. Odium,
taking his wife in a side-ear, left a mile behind in
48 4-ssec. Later, Odium did a mile solo in 38sec.
—6see. off the previous Queensland figures —and
five miles in 4min. 49sec. All on a 7-h.p. Indian.
Dr. Eaves, who died in England last week,
belonged to the very old school of tennis cham-
pions: ho won the Irish singles in 1897, which
was the year the Doherty brothers appeared above
the horizon. He was born in Victoria and rep-
resented that State several times v. N. S. V ale s i
but most of his tennis was played in England,
where he was educated.
“Rypo”: Who is the oldest cricketer in
Australia still playing? I nominate Walter li.
Edgar, of Harrow (Vie.). He has been hatting over
50 years, and is close to 70. The other day in a nnten
against Coleraine, playing for his old club (Harrow),
hie made a fast 34. He was one of the members of
the Harrow eleven which won the Murray Lnal •
lenge Cup in the early ’eighties. Johnny Mullag ,
the aboriginal, was also in that team.
HOW WE DIDN’T BEAT THE FAVORITE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(With apologies to Fr—nk M —rt—n.)
I was asked by a certain Dear Little Sydney Lady
(Hush! not a word,!)
To ride her celebrated foal, Wilfred,
In the Sires’ Produce Stakes.
I agreed.
Que voulez-vous?
One must humor the baggages.
You envisage me mounting the creature in the Rand-
wick Boudoir. Or it is the Birdcage? N’importe!
My colors are symbolical—
A black jacket and cap, signifying Sin; crimson
breeches emblematic of Love.
Wilfred, as befits his tender years, is virgin white.
A-languish to right and left are clivettcs, divorcees,
cocottes and cocudettes;
Also several coodley-coos
And a pair of unmistakable Tootsicumses (The Tales
I could relate about these last! 00-ooh !!)
Dimpled knees are ev’rywhere. (Be still, throbbing
heart!)
‘.(They’re off!”
Wilfred breaks into a convulsive amble.
Ang haulte art’ gauche (Note the archaism: I once
spent the day at Boulogne)
Are the homes of the Bookmakers.
Coarse, illiterate oafs these
But their wives! ’Cre Norn de Dieu, their unves!
And their daughters ! !
An expression of dumb yearning suffuses my passion-
warped countenance..
“Keep that dam’ whip to yourself!” (It is the
voice of Mr. W. Lillyman, one of the com-
petitors.)
We breast the hill.
Peering through the palings is a Girl —
A large, opulent, fuffy, leering Girl /
She deliberately teeters at me!
God! The brazen, bouncing, bavardage of it!
I reel!
I swoon!
The hooks of Red Desire grip me. My own hooks grip
Wilfred.
Not unnaturally, he objects.
“Let go iiis Ears!” (The well-meant counsel is
offered, en passant, by Mr. Miles Connell.)
I clamber laboriously back to the saddle.
And now we are nearing the Stands.
They teem with loose women, frail gallooklins and
Little Ladies.
Lust (or is it merely dust?) dims their allurements
like an aura.
“Come to us! Come!” they seem to cry.
I do my best.
However, in front are Mr. Albert Wood, Mr.
McLachlan and many others.
In fact, in the vile argot of the Ring, Wilfred
and I are “down the course”; “licked to the
wide.”
Spent with Pagan emotions I fall off.
Wilfred stops gratefully, and partakes of the some-
what sandy herbage on which I am reclining.
The Ambulance arrives (Tit-uppy! Tit-uppv! Tit-
uppy!)
“Warned off for life” —such is the verdict of Mr.
Colin Stephen and his confreres.
My offence.? “Careless riding.” An’t please you!
Ha! Aha!
How pitiably little these Philistine turfites know of
the Preoccupations of Passion.
La ! La! La!
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


Health is the Greatest of
sf
all Possessions.
From the earliest ages man has taken pride in his bodily
welfare and development. It can be acquired by regular
and efficient Physical Culture Exercises. Learn now to
improve your body.
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Exercises
will make you fit and keep you strong and healthy.
The surest and safest way to improve the seen and unseen
muscles is by means of health exercises—-exercises that drive
a copious supply of rich, virile blood throughout the system
—nourishing the whole system with oxygen, expelling waste
tissue, building up new tissue, benefiting every part of
your body.
The BAKER EXERCISES consist entirely of good exercises
based on these lines, and have been tested and proved by
experience.
Let me send you a copy of my booklet, “Health and Strength
from Self-culture.” It tells about my health-giving exer-
cises and methods, terms, etc. Send three penny stamps
for postage. Just write your name and address across this
advertisement. I’ll know what you mean.
REG. L. csnowy’) BAKER,
The All-round
Champion Athlete
of Australia,
20S Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
When You See
SIR ROSS SMITH'S
AEROPLANE
Overhead Think of
rjj/JJCEFIELD ]
Repo'
MOTOR OIL
HE IS USING IT.
C.C. Wakefield# Co. Ltd.
5 Moore Street, SYDNEY,
and LONDON'.
piiiilF
mi
SHEU
3EW2IHE
Be particular
about the spirit you use.
You’ll GET THE BEST if
you ask for—
■JV-
' ■ /:
urn
1
am
Obtainable Everywhere.
■
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING, MILLING, etc.
including
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY
Box 229 U.P.0.,
MELBOURNF.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
&
N
/* r
*» J
\
That Upside-
down Feeling.
When your Liver and Stomach are out
of working order; when constipation,
flatulence, biliousness and fullness after
meals assail you, take
GREATOIDS
“The Small but Great Liver Pill.”
Nature provides the remedies from
which these wonderful little regulators
are compounded. They will not in-
convenience vou.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
at 1/- and 1/6.
•=?
SI* 1
<J>
-
SORE
THROAT
Here’s the Remedy.
Gargle your tliroat night and
morning with Greathead’s —the
most powerful weapon against
all germs that lodge in the
threat.
A Cure for Quinsy. Coughs,
Colds, and Bronchitis. All
Grocers and Chemists.
Greathead’s Mixture.
A Well-matured Tobacco at Last!
“NOSEGAY”
MANUFACTURED BY T. C. WILLIAMS, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.
Most Pipe-smoking Troubles come from Using Tobacco that is Too New.
NOSEGAY does not bite the tongue!
NOSEGAY r does not affect the nerves!
NOSEGAY burns down to the last particle in the pipe!
10/8 per lb. 5/4 per ilb. 2|B per ilb.
Postage—N.S.W.: 6d. for the first lb. and 3d. every additional lb.
Other States: Bd. for the first lb. and 6d. every additional lb.
SAMPLE TINS 1/3, Post Paid.
A. A. MARKS, 376 George St., Sydney,
Cigar and Tobacco Importer. BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
V» 1 '
<9
TATMA
w
w
m
m
42 m
For
Australian Homes
In many Australian
homes and stores where
imported Carbide was
previously used for
acetylene lighting,
“Tasma” Carbide, the
Australian carbide, has
proved to be equal to
the best European and
Eastern carbide pro-
duced. It possesses
an exceptionally high
percentage in gas pro-
duction, and as a con-
sequence is most
economical in use.
Its illumination is
brilliant and steady,
and it is quite free from
phosphorus. For light-
ing your home and
vehicles specify “Tas-
ma” Carbide—by so
doing you benefit Aus-
tralian industry and
benefit yourself. Made
in Australia by The
Hydro-Electric Power
and Metallurgical Co.,
Ltd. Works: Electrona,
near Hobart, Tasmania.
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
Victoria—NOYES BROS. t.uELßi*) PTY., ETI)., 499-501 ltourke
Street, Melbourne.
New South Wales—NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTI)., Clarence
Street, Sydney.
Queensland—SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS, LTD., Brisbane and
Townsville.
South Australia—AßTHUß H. HASELL, Fort, Adelaide.
Best Australia—AßTHUß H. HASELL, Per il.
Tasmania —GILLIES BROS.. 14 Collins Street, Hobart.


QUALITY in GOLF SHIRTS
Made in jdustralia
sdf
RRt
RRl —Best Quality Golf Shirts, with white
neckbands, soft double cufls, and detach-
able Peter Pan collars to match. Best make
and finish. White grounds with various
smart colored stripe designs.
Price, each, 15/6; 3 for ... ... 45/-
RR2 —Cotton Twill Golf Shirts, with white
neckbands, double cuffs, and detachable
Peter Pan collar to match. Light grounds
with various co'ored stripe effects. Made in
Farmer’s own workrooms. All sizes.
Price, each, 15/6; 3 for ... ... 45/-
fflens Outfitting Sections, Ground Floor,
‘Pitt and iJliarket Streets.
We Pay
Carriage
FARMER'S
Box 497,
G.P.O.
• •
fp
■/
What will
you wear
this season ?
The woman who makes
the fashions for others,
as distinguished from
the woman who takes
her fashions from
others, wears Tailor
Suits and Gowns con-
trived by SHAVE. Only
the craft of these
master tailors has made
it possible for the well-
dressed to attain this
pinnacle of elegance
without waste of time
and bothersome fittings.
SHAVE,
Centreway,
Melbourne.
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
\tyjair
gmuK cmamiss
The very acme of style and fit
combined w tS the perfection
of workmanship that de ights
Every pair is guaranteed and
must give you satisfactory
wear or they will be replaced
free of charge.
Insist on Vanity Fair
Silk Gloves.
VF. 15
MCLBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
Autumn racing started at Caulfield on
Saturday with the Oakleigh Plate meeting,
and the crowd equalled a Caulfield Cup
crush of pre-war days. Socially, it was a
man’s day, however. The G.-G. went out
with a devoted genthelp but none of his
womenfolk, and the special pen on the stand
was deserted. Though there was only such
a poor sprinkling of women, one of the sex —
Mrs. Hillcoat, of Bananaland —captured the
big race with Molly’s Robe; but even she
did not appear at the meeting. She
stayed in Brisbane and let hubby bring the
winner along.
Frocks worth mention w T ere scarce. It
w r as a hot, dusty day, and the owners of
new autumn togs mostly kept at home;
and as for summer frocks, there have been
so many Birdwood garden-parties that they
are all shabby. One startling gown redeemed
the lawn from the monotony of tailor-mades.
Something slender and feminine, with her
head bagged in a new tattoo veil, wore a
narrow sheath of lime-green satin, as brief
as a Portsea batliing-gown, with a bright
blue fringe, a yard deep, round her waist.
She just needed some, hula hula music to
complete the effect.
Mrs. Winter-Irving was out, and saw
hubby’s Yacamunda just miss the Federal
Stakes. Mrs. Irving wore white socks, a
corn-colored gown and her own very golden
hair. Andrew Chirnside won a race. Ber-
wick, where he is “squire,” was represented
by quite a number of the womenfolk. They
mostly wore sensible motoring togs and the
floating veil of the dusty country roads.
Molly’s Robe has firoVed less expensive
than most these days. Mrs. Hillcoat bought
the winner of foTOO in stakes for 200
guineas.
Wintry rains spoiled the courts for
tennis last week. But in honor of the
visitors —English, you know —the G.-G. and
Lady Helen put on rain-proofs and goloshes
and splashed along, and so did Lieut.-
Gov. Irvine and his lady. Lady Helen
wore dove grey and yvhite under her
rain coverings in case the weather
should change. The Irvine dame was
cosy in thick purple cloth and a gold
turban. Legal men were there in great
numbers. Judge Billy Williams had only
to cross the road from home. Norman
Brookes came to watch, Mrs. Brookes and
the rest of the Emmertons were in full force.
Heather Keep, Dorothy Schlesinger and
other of the tennis girls were keen on-
lookers, and Grimwades, Bells and Fair-
bairns were in the crowd. Major Osborne
Fairbairn got a welcome home. Even Bird-
wood managed to squeeze an hour out of his
busy day to watch the show.
Last week the Jewish citizens of Mel-
bourne sounded the loud timbrel in welcome
to General Monash. They gave him a re-
ception in the Prahran Town Hall, where the
women made the electrics look dim with
their diamonds. Gold and silver brocade
and much purple and fine linen were also
on show. Because of the illness of her
mother, Bertha, daughter of the General,
clothed in peach color, had to help her dis-
tinguished father through the social flurry.
Dr. Abrahams read an address to the
General and then presented it. There were
endless speeches at the supper, which was
of the three-volume variety with gilt edges,
Major Isaacson was there with his wife;
the Michaelis family were present in shoals,
and Dr. Leon Jona and Mrs. Ivosminsky
Jona. The Felix Meyers and Sternbergs
also rejoiced.
Edward the Princeling is to land in Mel-
bourne on Wednesday, May 19, by and with
the advice of Prime Minister Hughes. He
will stay for a couple of weeks, and put in
most of the time in the country. Bendigo
and Ballarat will each have a day. and so will
Gippsland and Hamilton districts, if Parlia-
mentary influence counts for anything. As
it is now certain that Teddy will enter
Sydney from the sea, the Royal-road agita-
tion is waning or has waned ; hut some of
the smiles it raised still linger.
The intimation has been .solemnly gazetted
that decorations, insignia and medals may
be worn on morning dress at official
functions. No definition of morning dress
is supplied. If prices for ordinary
suits keep moving on it may be neces-
sary to amend the order later and give per-
mission for the ribbons to be attached to
bathing-costumes.
Elsie Mackay, daughter of Westralian
Sam Mackay and stepdaughter of Fan Dango
Mackay, was married at Chicago on February
9. The bridegroom is Lionel Atwill. The
family got the exciting news by cable.
Elsie left Merton College here to go on the
stage and has done very well —she was
leading lady with Cyril Maude for a time.
Hubby Atwill is an actor and visited Aus-
tralia with “The Whip.” Now he has a
live years’ contract with Belasco. He
opens in New York in October in “De-
duran.” That piece is to be produced for
the first time in Paris in March, and the
honeymooners are to see the start of it
there.
Composer Fedora St. Ledger is engaged
to Roland Broome, of Wonthaggi. Fedora’s
brother, Dr. Waddington St ; Ledger, is also
engaged. His prize is Kitty O’Connor,
daughter of Sylvester O’Connor, of Bris-
bane. Mrs. St. Ledger has just been up to
Bananaland to make the acquaintance of
the bride-elect. The wedding is due in
June. Dr. St. Ledger has bought a prac-
tice at Cunnamulla.
Lil'an, daughter of George McKelwey, of
Wyallah, Forbes (fr.S.W.), is on the
engaged list. The McKelweys are an old
Melbourne family; they had a home at
Williamstown for many years. The second
party is Percy Barwell, just returned
from the war. He and his brother are
two energetic young Australians who are
building up a hat business with factories of
their own.
Mrs. Gove, who was the orphan Vera
Jackson, has just returned from her motor-
ing honeymoon. She and her husband go
to India in a month or two. He is interested
in horse buying.
Muriel, daughter of W. G. Watson, one-
time- confidential adviser of Dalgety’s, pleads
guilty of impending matrimony. Her fellow-
conspirator is Hughie Forster, who has just
got back to his chair in Dalgety’s after
nearly five years in the khaki of a “choom.”
Mrs. William Templeton’s widowed
daughter, Jean Taylor, has had a second
wedding. The ’groom was Roy Adam, only
son of the Rothwell Adams, who lately
bought the Taylors’ squattage, near Kyneton.
The hride was in biscuit-colored georgette
with a sheaf of blue delphiniums to match
her hat lining. Sister Olive, lately back
from the Front, reinforced by 13-year-old
Cynthia Taylor, bridesmaided. Both wore
frothy pink. Afterwards Mrs. Templeton
hostessed a wedding tea for near relations
only. Amongst them were Edward Mitchell,
K.C., and his dame, and the Colin Temple-
tons. Mrs. Howard Willoughby (the’groom’s
aunt), the Norman Paxtons and a Herbert
Power daughter were also in the party.
A crowd of the Best lined up for the Old
Melbournians’ lawn frivol, which was a
joyous affair. President (General) Grim-
wade and daughter Gwenda, the latter a
vision in pink jersey cloth, shook hands
with guests until their muscles gave out.
Then everyone hurried to the tennis court.
There, after a great tussle, Norman Brookes
and Rod Heath scored off Wertheim and
O’Hara Wood. A putting tournament raged
on the side park, and a cricket match Oil
the field. Tea was handed round in the
gvm. and the big schoolroom.
Cecil Tait, a girl still in the happy pig-
tail stage, is showing rare talent as an illus-
trator. She has just
published a second
set of drawings illus-
trat i li g nursery
rhymes strung by
Arthur Adams and
set to music. The
cover-design and all
the decorations
which brighten the
24 pages are the
work of Cecil: they
show originality in
conception, and
there is fine move-
ment in the draw-
in gs. The young
artist is the daughter
of Charles Tait, a
partner in Allan’s.
The little picture
of her is by Ruth Holliek.
Sandwiched among other gay doings when
the Fleet looked in on Hobart was the
christening of naval man Mackenzie’s
infant. Afterwards there was a reception
at the Orient, where the 200-year-old
christening veil of the Mackenzie clan was
much admired. The infant’s mother was
once a Miss Curran.
11. 11. Newton, clerk of the Vic. Parlia-
ments, and R. W. V. McColl, clerk of the
Uppah House, who helped the late Tom Wat-
son to make the arrangements for the recep-
tion of George Y. in 1901, are to give a
Ministerial committee a hand in preparing
for Edward. Whitehead, of the Labor
Department, a handy man who did so well in
fixing things up at a modest outlay when
Gen. Pau was here, is to be secretary and
organiser.
“Vandorian” from London :
Mary Marlowe is getting away- for Melbourne this
week or next—the getting away is uncertain till the
baggage is aboard. Mary, who V.A.D.’d in a Kent
hospital during the war, has also been pushing a
lively pen in odd moments.
Father McGrath, of the liedemptorist
Order, whose zealous work »s a missioner is
well-remembered at Ballarat and from
Tweed Heads to Perth, has passed out at
Wellington (M.L.). When in Australia two
years ago he was frail, but had heaps of
energy, and looked forward to another 20
years' of sowing.
At the age of four Fedora St. Ledger
turned out a little melody that tickled the
critical ear of Professor Dunhill, a big
Lon and o n musician
who w’as then visit-
ing Australia. Four
years later the dam-
sel welcomed Uncle
Sam’s fleet with an
American Fleet
March which
received three cheers
from Admiral
Sperrv. Since then
Fedora has composed
many brilliant
things, whilst
developing separate
reputations as
pianist, violinist and
singer. Her quality
as a pianist, shown
at various times on
the concert platform,
made her a valued pupil of Edward Goll,
whilst her warble, has received a pat
on the top-note from tne appreciative Melba.
The brainy girl, who is here caught under
a picture hat by the Broothorn Studios,
gets her talent from her dad (ex-Senator
St. Ledger) and her mother, both of them
better-than-average musicians.
Adelaide calls the score:—
The newly-established Methodist Hospital, which
has absorbed Ru-Rua Hospital, as well as the W. A.
Magareysf house next door and the Simpson New-
lands' Terraces next door to that, has been formally
opened, and on Thursday morning Mrs. A. H. Gault
was there to show the building to representatives of
various women’s organisations. The scheme was
launched two years ago as a war memorial.
If our departed Governor ever had any doubts as
to his popularity the crowd that saw him off at the
station should have dispelled them. It was a mas-
culine crowd mostly, but there were a few women —
including Miss Murray and Mrs. G. IT. Dean. Chief
Justice Murray was sworn in for his first term as
Lieut.-Governor next morning. He and Miss Murray
will put in the summer at Marble Hill. A committee
has already been appointed, by the way, to get a
portrait of our ex-Excellency for the Gallery, with
£10 10s. as the maximum subscription.
Mrs'. C. C. Kingston’s missing will has failed to
turn up, and letters of administration have been taken
out. The estate is sworn at £30,000.
There is to be a presentation to “Sammy” Lunn
—a one-time, soldier himself —who collected Heaven
knows-how-many pounds and handed it out to
returned soldiers at the rate of 5s. a man. He saw
practically every troop-train and transport off and
met them all as they came home. Captain Black-
burn is to be chairman of the public meeting to
lauinh the fund.
Tennis is the dissipation of the moment. There
was a big crowd at the Oval on Friday to watch
the British-South Australian matches. Before the
games there was a lunch, with the S.A. Lawn
Tennis Assoc, as hosts, and Mayor and Mayoress
Moulden-Hackett (just back from a trip to Mel-
bourne) among the local guests. The visiting players
put in most of Thursday afternoon on A. R. Taylor s
court at Hyde Park.
The programme for the Birdwood visit has been
arranged, and it’s a very full one. The last four
days go in an inspection of the soldier settlements
on the Murray.
Adelaide Tramways Trust is not experimenting
with reductions as it did during last year’s strike.
It cut straight down to the minimum—no cars on
Sundays or in the evenings or after 1.30 on Satur-
days—just enough to get people in to business and
home again; and sport and amusement of all kinds
must look after themselves. The suburban train
service is to be cut down, too, but less drastically.
An extra train or two can run on the coal they
individually use. A single electric car requires a
whole power-system at work.
Though many of them marry and drop out,
Adelaide was able to muster these woman-doctors at
a farewell dinner to Dr. Helen Mayo: Dr. Gertrude
Halley, Dr. Phoebe Chappie, Dr. Violet Plummer, Dr.
Mary Moffat, Dr. Ruth Gault, Dr. Marie Brown, and
Mrs. Newberry (Dr. Constance Cooper). And there
is hardly one of them that isn’t 6 very busy woman.
The Belgian Government is making sure its people
don’t forget what German Kultur is. The Rev. N.
H. Louwyck, a Belgian who looks after our Yorke-
town’s soul, recently received a letter ircm his
people. The stamp affixed, about twice the usual
size, has a picture in colors of a German firing-party
preparing to execute a Belgian family—with the
glare of the burning home in the background.
The eldest of the widow Ross Soden's sous
—a doctor just returned from the war—
was married quietly on February 12 to
Dr. Margaret Robertson. The bride prac-
tises in Collins-street, and the two will go
into double partnership. Mrs. Ross Soden
gave the pair a send-off party at Grong Grong,
Toorak, on the evening of February 10.
The ballroom was opened for the occasion
and the supper party jazzed till daylight.
Red Crossers are wanted again. The
head centre at Government House is send-
ing out the SOS call to helpers who have
drifted away since the end of the war.
Women of leisure may find occupation at
the Red Cross Rest House, Caulfield, in
preparing material for soldier patients. The
invalids welcome handicraft work to do in
the long days of recovery. The kitchen in
the Domain is also short of helpers. Volun-
teers arc asked to send in their names to
Government House.
Hobart is feeling more hopeful. The
Australia is to have a dance on board when
the Brisbane arrives. The Encounter took
Governor Newdegate away and returned
with Birdwood. Several returned Tas-
manians marooned in Melbourne did wish
they could crowd aboard the cruiser with
Birdy and get home.
Treasurer Lewis and his wife have Bird-
wood as their guest in Hobart. He is to
stav at their home, Werndee, instead of
with Lieut.-Governor Nicholls. The
Nichollses have a houseful of children and
little spare room. Government House is
shut up for the time being.
Melbourne is getting special views of the
Prince in the movie gazettes. Various
items of his tour through Canada are being
screened now. Young Edward is obviously
very shy. One picture shows him being
interviewed by two cowgirls, who appear
to invite him to ride a broncho. The
obvious embarrassment of the Royal tender-
foot may be due to the thought of the
bucking steed or to admiration of the two
Wild West damsels.
Melbourne women who expect to be asked
to meet the Prince are busy practising the
“low bow.” Special private lessons are
the vogue, with secret rehearsals at home
before the clieval glass.
Mrs. Hughes, the General’s wife, joins
in the universal chorus of “Glad to be home
again!” Australia’s sons and daughters
have discovered that there is no place like
home, where the fatted calf is an ever-
green and you can still pass the butter.
Grossardi, the new Italian Consul, was
feted at a special lunch party at the Aus-
tralia on Thursday, tie is an alert-looking
Italian with a beautiful olive complexion
and an eyebrow moustache.
The pibroch is sounding for March 5.
when the foundation-stone is to be laid for
the new Scotch College at Hawthorn.
General Monash, who is an Old Scotch boy.
is to do the laying and the assemblage will
be stiff with personages, including the G.-G.
A large dinner will be eaten the same night
in the Town Hall by the Old Scotch Col-
legians’ Club as a welcome home to Monash
and all returned A.I.F. collegians. Inci-
dentally a solemn circular states that
specially-selected representatives of the daily
and weekly papers will be bidden to the
proceedings. Let’s hope they will be photo-
graphed.
Dr. and Mrs. lan Scott (she is best
known to us as Lindsay Russell, the writer
who pursues the Scarlet Woman with a
sharp pen) are settling in Melbourne. He
is going into Collins-street; she will con-
tinue to turn out anew book every day
or so.
Melbourne had heard little or nothing of
late about Maud Grantham; then lo! she
gave another recital of the “Christinas
Carol” at the Austral Salon building and
woke the Dickens Fellowship to enthusiasm.
It was the Fellowship’s first meeting for the
year, and Miss Grantham’s positively-best
recital of the Marley’s Ghost story up to date.
Sue was a capital dramatic reciter a few years
ago. She js better to-day—her personality
more forcible, her elocution keener,, and her
turn for character impersonation more fully
developed. The audience at the Salon didn’t
know how to make enough fuss over the
lady when she had finished her long mono-
logue. She intends to escape from the next
Melbourne winter in order to give some
recitals in Brisbane.
The V.A.D. long-service chevrons, it ap-
pears, are only to be awarded to the leisured-
class girl who was able to keep on the job for
so many consecutive hours. The wage-
earning girl who gave up all her spare time
and play hours gets no chevrons. Yet some
of these put in far more work than many
who have been handed their stripes.
Manager Gill, of the Fine Arts Society,
is wearing a dolorous countenance owing to
the fact that he has to move out of his
present quarters at the end of the month,
and the Society’s new home —in Exhibition-
street, near the Occidental—will not be
ready for some weeks. The building he is
leaving was formerly occupied by the Hun
Club, and, appropriately enough, has been
captured by the Naval and Military Club.
Artist Tom Roberts is getting ready to
hold an exhibition at the end of the month
at the Athenaeum.
There is a whisper that City Fathers are
learning how to iazz in some hidden vault
of the Town Hall. They feel they must
prance as well as Hennessy by the time
the Prince arrives.


iiiiii
SPP:> v-;'"
li
1
.... c .: >
m
■SS -1 hi ill
lit If
■i ■■ | iiiist
MhhH
mcb
:
in
ts
m
. .
■ sill iiiiiiiiii
■iplllll j|' I m IfllplfP Ig® 1
Ifflft ppl II I I 11
I life t B|j§ ||M§ I
,**£ -*» *> ** - u
SUM!
v :
tfiff I
ii |..
bmMMmim
lllllll!
ttjßßll
tltil!
M ■ wlli ii ip i . s sppps
p ®f#i iliiii
mm.
II s
li siiiif i ii tin
il m mm
mmm
■
11111®
1 H
111
§ii#iitfi ip it®*
V
!
; 111
;;,i p V. : ; : .
. :
|*ii«ii itlllllitp
fl# f ■
: ::
§1
'
■is
mmm
MM
lit
HR
isiiiii
liißSppiiii^M
pilill
mBk < " -jV-t-
-.
.
M-
p*
MB
HI
p
11111 l
■ ' ;yi • p"""p-.p ; /
I i?
lll
■ MHHMhI
: m
I
■III
■ I
■ ..
,
p
IH
111
.
■
li
■
ISfllti i
as*
H
9H
I *
iIWPIIK
1 ■
m
m
llpplip
■
■ |H I ■ I
mm
■
IIBiIH
; s
HHgn
mm - p / iMI m i
WHmm
»P PIPPPP
,
I ipi
11 :;: §§g|ji|
.'■ :
■
.
■ .
IP*
■
Copt Sir Foss Smith. 7JI.C A7.C
Copyright Watson’s No. 10 Whisky.
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
THE above portrait of Capt. Sir Ross Smith, M.C., A.F.C., is one of a new series of drawings speci-
ally executed for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being entirely
free from advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set, consisting of Admiral Sir D. Beatty, Earl Haig',
General Sir W. Bird wood. General Sir W. Robertson,
General Foch, Vice-Admiral Sir F. C. D. Sturdee, General
Sir John Monash and Capt. Sir Ross Smitb, will be sent to any address on
receipt of six penny (Commonwealth) stamps. As the production is limited, we advise you to
write and secure a set immediately to
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD., 26 King Street, Sydney, N,S,W.
M
1
'Walocrr, 4 (<• t"
“**'*" '■Ou+ufra -—-*
m
//vw.
aaepy//
\/W <2
k 1 JUi M.W...J
Wtmm
mmmm
1 v-y


Charles
Heidsieck's
Vintage 1906
CBM!
HE PLUS ULTRA ,
rt
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Ignition is the Heart
of the Motor Engine.
Benton Spark Plugs are the result of
scientific research for ignition efficiency. The
whole of the energies of a huge manufac-
turing concern are devoted to producing a
Plug that may be judged according to Cham-
pionship Standards.
Garage Proprietors are recommending them
because of their dependability—and the good-
will they give to their establishment as a
place where quality accessories may be pur-
chased.
Ford Cars require a Plug of special design.
Do not fit any type ijn. Plug, even if it is a
Benton.
Ask for “BEMTON SPECIAL FOR FORDS.’ 1
WHOLESALE (ONLY) DISTRIBUTORS.'—
Bennett 8 Barkell
Limited,
“Traders* Service House.“
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
HOSIERY!
GLOVES!
UNDERWEAR!
“OUR” SPECIAL MILANESE SILK
GLOVES, double-tipped guaranteed, all colors.
„ 4/9 pair.
Other qualities 5/6, 7/6 pair
“DOVE” HEAVY-WEIGHT PURE SILK
HOSE, every pair guaranteed ladder-proof. Sold
in shops 25/- pair. From us, in black only—
-16/6 Pair
“OMI” ARTIFICIAL STLK ANKLE
HOSE, Australian made, noted for splendid dye
and good wear. In black,< white and brown—'
3/6 pair
“DOVE” AMERICAN COTTON SING-
LETS. very long and full size. Short sleevrs.
4/11 value for 2/11 each
KAVsjER MTRANEBE •HOSE, in Mastic,
Navy and AVhite Ifi'-ft pair
MAIL ORDERS SPECIALLY CATERED FOR.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
The Dove Hosiery Stores,
313 Collins St., Opp. Equitable Builiini, Melbourne
FOR WOMEN WHO HATE ROUGE.
A TOILET HINT.
Ladies who suffer from pale, sallow, bad
complexions, yet who quite naturally object
to the “loud,” coarse and “made-up” ap-
pearance almost inevitably associated with
the use of rouge—which also, by the way, is
often distinctly harmful to the complexion—
will be interested bo learn that they can
easily regain the velvety, child-like freshness
of their complexions by using a simple, in-
expensive lotion composed of 2ozs. of rose
water, 1 dram tincture of benzoin and 2ozS.
of flowers of oxzion. Shake well before a only-
in g with a soft cloth or sponge. When dry
brush lightly with a soft cloth or a piece of
chamois leather. If you will do this when-
ever you go out you will always have a soft
natural refined color, of which your friends
cannot be susp'cious and of which you need
not be ashamed. This lotion is also excep-
tionally beneficial in relieving and preventing
chapped face's and hands, as well as redness
clue to exposure to weather. —Advt.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JOES
SMART
ILLINERY
Bush Week” was a great success. A
whole lot of city people went to see the
Town Hal] show, and having duly admired
the beautiful vegetables and fruit preserves,
■wondered why such things can never be pur-
chased. His Ex. and Lady Davidson were
quite overwhelmed by the greeting of the
flowers and fruit, whose spokesman welcomed
them in blank verse. His Ex. plucked a
small, self-possessed flannel-flower and a
fluffy yellow chicken (or it may have been
a wattle blossom), and attached them to the
vice-regal train for the afternoon. Dessert
in the shape of a basket of grapes was
thrown in with the blank verse.
The object of Bush Week was to make the
country look more attractive. The organisers
did their best. Acres in Dreamland were
presented. Even the cow-cocky’s dairy was
of red brick'with an outside dado of blue-
and-white tiles. Then there was the family
party picking grapes, the ladies wearing
“confections” and smart hats. Residences
invariably ran to mansions with a motor-
car attached. There were no droughts there,
neither weevils nor codlin-moths.
There was also a panoramic view of Can-
berra of the future. It might have been
India and the Taj Mahal: a city of flat roofs
and tombs and no churches. The one lone
spire was attached to a circular arrange-
ment of red brick cottages. A river (or was
it a dam?) separated the Taj Mahal section
from the other half; there appeared to be
no communication between the north and
south beyond a 12-footer sailing-boat. There
was something else on the dam • some said
it was a sportive whale, others a water-
spout.
The Bush didn’t contribute very many visi-
tors. One who had just abandoned his farm
after watching the last of his horses die (no,
the drought hasn’t broken everywhere), read
the nlacard:—
THE CITY DEPENDS ON THE COUNTRY.
HELP IT!
He fumbled in his pocket for a pencil. A
minute later tne placard read :
THE CITY DEPENDS ON THE COUNTRY.
GOD HELP IT!
Failing eyesight has caused Julian Ashton
to lay down his brash, and he will paint no
more. It was a brave decision, but Ashton
is too fine an artist to take the risk of paint-
ing unworthily, and it will only be as a
teacher that the world of art will know him
in the future. With Sydney Ure Smith and
Bertram Stevens as hon. secretaries, a com-
mittee of admirers gathered a collection
of pictures to form an exhibition in the
artist’s honor, as interesting as it is unique.
At the Education Building Premier Holman
opened this exhibition, which includes Mr.
Ashton’s own collection of Australian art,
many bearing the names of men whose steps
were guided by the master himself. All the
available works of Mr. Ashton are in a
room adjoining, and they make a fine
show. Gems such as “Mist on the Creek,”
“The Mountain Side” and “The Everlasting
Hills” are worth going far to see. Opening
day there was a great gathering, and Lloyd
Jones, Premier W. A. Holman and the
Minister for Education paid their tribute to
the veteran. It cost Mr. Ashton something
to make a reply, but it was thoroughly char-
acteristic —just a fine plea for a better edu-
cational system in the higher planes of art.
After the speech-making small grand-
daughter Rosalind tripped up and handed
grandpa a big basket of crimson roses.
St. Mark’s was filled on Thursday with
Darling Pointers, who went to see pretty
Cecily Catteral] become Mrs. Colin Duncan
The bridegroom, best known in these parts
to the G.-G., is a S. Australian,
the son of a squatter-politician connected
with that Hughes family which began to be
wealthy when Moonta copper-mines were
found. The Rev. North Ash did the tying.
The bride’s girl pals had emptied an Eden
of its gladioli, dahlias, and palms to beautify
the chancel. The bride herself was studied
simplicity and elegance in a draped frock of
ivory satin with a panel train. A family
heirloom in a veil of deep cream Mechlin lace
mellowed with age served to further enhance
the picture, which also included a rope of
pearls (the_ ’groom’s gift) and a sheaf of
tuberoses, tiger lilies and dahlias. A posy
of forget-me-nots nestled at the end of the
sheaf—to supply, evidently, the old demand
for something blue.” The bride was unat-
tended, but Captain Keith Duncan was
A.D.C. to his brother. Luncheon at the
Royal Sydney Yacht Club, Kirribilli, was the
only celebration feast. The bride’s mother
was a study in amethyst, while sister Ursula
chose a putty georgette frock topped by a
black hat. The ’groom’s mother was in black
and white georgette and black hat. The
honeymoon is being spent at the Arthur
Allens’ place at Port Hacking.
You’ve read every word the various Ross
Smiths have said; and every time the two
Knights of the Air-road have smiled a
camera has thrown it at you. The brethren
with their mechanics—mere sergeants they
—came sailing in on Saturday, while every
city flat-roof held its living freight gazing
skywards. Sydney rolled up to give the
four the welcome they deserved, and the
Smith parents were mighty proud of their
natural, unaffected boys. Then entertain-
ments closed in on them and they will be
made uncomfortable till they mount for home
on Saturday.
In a classic robe of white satin, draperies
of point de gaze lace, a court train with a
flight of pink swallows thereon, an embroi-
dered tulle veil and a big bouquet, Norah
Nugent duly accepted Captain Dr. Reginald
Power, son of the late W. G. Power, of
Nundah, Queensland. The ceremony, with
Nuptial Mass, was at St. Mary’s, with the
Papal Delegate officiating. The grandeur of
the representatives of the Church quite over-
shadowed the bridal party. Within the
sanctuary were Archbishop Duhig (Bris-
bane), Bishop Shiel (Rockhampton) and
Monsignor O’Haran, who kept the brides-
maid up to her duty. Dr. Ormond and
Father Murphy assisted the Papal Delegate.
In all the glory of his Consular uniform,
Tom Dalton gave his sister-in-law away.
Muriel Sheldon was bridesmaid in hydrangea
tones of blue charmeuse and mauve
georgette, with a black-lace hat and a
bouquet of hydrangeas. Major Reid, D. 5.0.,
supported his brother officer. There was no
feasting of guests; only the bridal party
adjourned to the Dalton domicile, WUeat-
leigh.
Another war romance ended in wedding
bells lately when Flight-Lieut. I. A.
McDonald undertook to see that Sister Jean
Tye, R.*R.C., was never short of a case. The
bridegroom, a brother of popular Nurse
McDonald, of Jenner Hospital, had four
years’ service, and the same—with a few
days off to get her decoration from George
Rex—stands to the credit of the bride. The
cross, by the way, was won for attending
wounded under heavy fire. Sister Tye was
a trainee of the Edinburgh Infirmary, and
had been but nine weeks in Australia when
she joined up with the Ist Contingent of
Victorian Nurses. Lieutenant Tye, her
brother, of the 7th Battalion, was killed at
Pozieres.
Rania Macphillamy, the Forbes girl who
did such great work in Egypt, is to shortly
marry Lieut.-Colonel Clive Single, D. 5.0.,
an Anzac who saw much service also in
Palestine. He has played with the A.I.F.
cricket team, too.
If Portia Geach becomes known to pos-
terity as the lady who boycotted ’taters or
boomed the fireless cooker, rather than as
an artist—well, like Mrs. ’Enery ’Awkins,
sne has only herself
to blame. A few
weeks ago in Mel-
bourne she had an
exhibition of cabinet
pictures, wi t h de-
signs for mur a 1
decorations, “A Twi-
light Suite,” and a
series of nocturnes
in color that were
verv charming to
the eye. Then her
friends found the
artist displaying
with more pride
cakes and stewed
fruit and wheatmeal
“ccoked by myself in
my fireless-cooker”—
a butter-box lined
with many folds of newspaper. As the
organiser of the Housewives’ Association her
theme is “economy in all things,” and her
big ambition is to have “local” fruit and
vegetable markets—her special interest is in
North Sydney; she has lived over that side
almost ever since the Geach family came to
Sydney. This photograph of the lady of
many parts is the very latest by her friend
May Moore.
Father Bartley and a trio of assisting
prelates fastened the matrimonial bonds of
Regina Pfeiffer, now of Edgecliff but once
of Charters Towers, and Harold Allen (late
54th Batt.). The bride said she would in
silver tissue and lace and white tulle over
pink satin. More silver tissue formed the
pointed court train, with Christmas lilies
appliqued thereon. There were pink car-
nations in her shower bouquet of white
blossoms, and wee pink satin leaves held the
tulle veil in place. Sister Madeline and
“Bobby” Carr stood by the bride in double-
skirted frocks of lemon taffeta with rib-
bons of mauve and blue at the waist. Their
millinery was small, of yellow tulle with
blue feather trimming; their bouquets com-
bined the three tones. Ella Caspers sang
during the Nuptial Mass, and the Australia
was the scene of the largely-attended
wedding breakfast.
March 17 and St. Peter’s, Neutral Bay, will,
all going well, witness the marriage of
Edith Muir, younger daughter of the Byron
Muirs, of Cremorne, and Lieut. John Drink-
water, R.N. —he came here in charge of one
of the Admiralty’s gift submarines, but had
visited Australia before. Canon Wilton
comes from Bathurst to perform the cere-
mony.
The Jack Campbells and Edmund Play-
fairs have had a competition to see which
family could give the more brilliant party
to mark the engagement of their chicks.
The Campbells gave a dinner at the Went-
worth : the Playfairs had their shivoo at
their home, Kioto, which has one of the
finest private ballrooms in Sydney. They
had over a hundred guests.
Very quietly married at St. Andrew’s
Cathedral the other day, Phyllis Mary Fair-
fax Smythe, daughter of Arthur Smythe, to
John William Green, of Brisbane. Dean
Talbot tied the knot. Another daughter of
the Smythes is to presently make another sort
of public appearance—as a pianist.
Alec Hay, who v r as roped in as president
of the Bush Week show which supplied
amusement to any bushmen who happened
to be in Sydney last w T eek, inherited the
Berry estate and
expected to find him-
se 1 f a millionaire ;
but when the charges
for hospitals, U n i-
versity endowments,
charities, dowers
and family bequests
had been met, the
golden egg was
found to be mostly
shell. He launched
out as a station-
owner in the Queens-
land Gulf country;
made a fortune;
launched out again
and made another.
He was a candidate
for the Australian
Parliament before
he won the New Ensrland seat last month:
George Fuller beat him in Illawarra, where
they both live, in 1904. He held a commis-
sion in the Light Horse for years, and went
to Egypt with the N. S. Wales Remounts as
A major. His wife is a daughter of the
beautiful Mrs. Sydney Surdekin. and they
have a girl and two boy*. The photo is by
Hinton Witts, who, when he had cast off
khaki, set up his cameras at Lyceum House.
The “Gilrooney” Cassidy picture of a couple
of weeks ago w r as from the same dark-room.
One result of the shipping strike has been
that a number of young and middle-aged Aus-
tralians have seen a bit of their own
island instead of keeping a date with
beauty in Tasmania. The Blue Mountains
are crowded with Victorians, Queenslanders
and Sou’stralians, many on their first visit,
and hotels and boarding-houses are booking
rooms as far ahead as May, especially for
Northerners. It’s to be hoped the poor
dears will remember to pack up woollies.
Leura is thronged with fascinating grass-
widows with an assortment of hats and
dresses not to be sneezed at, young men with
an accent so English that they use adenoids
instead of vowels, a heavy sprinkling of
what a Maequarie-street man calls “blood-
less flappers,” and some hall-marked
beauties. Standing out among the last is
the youthful Mrs. Watson, of the Marks
family, with a cheek as smooth as a cherry
and a milkwhite skin, always looking as
though she had walked off the cover of
a magazine. In contrast to her blondness
is the dark sparkling attractiveness of Miss
King. These, with the Red Cross Miss Monie,
some Dangars, a few meshes of the Onslow
network and the MacConnells (who if they
are not going to visit the King expect to
entertain the Prince), have been disporting
themselves daily at the links, under the
fatherly eye of Secretary Portus. Con-
valescent soldiers are frequent—one on
crutches and another without his left hand,
and playing a rattling game, too.
St. Luke’s will have at least two days’
carpentering paid for when the box-office
receipts of the other night’s ball at Leura
are totalled. St. Alban’s blossomed with
clumps of valley and mountain-top vegeta-
tion, and the summer girl bloomed out of her
wispy sheath of georgette and satin, and
young men of the village and others all the
way from Sydney filled in her programme.
Mrs. Harry Osborne was the soul of the
enterprise; Mrs. Clive Dangar gave the pro-
grammes; another Dangrr imported the
music; Mrs. Richard Meares (in a black
and white dress, so alluring that it clamored
to be called a creation) gave the supper
tent. There were Dangars, Onslows and the
Archie Rankins; and handsome Mrs. Fred
Merewether chaperoned a daughter-in-iaw-to-
be Mort, who had artfully contrived to snare
a look of Arcady into her dress by means
of a subtle green riband and a posy. Golf
Club secretary Portus kept an eye on two
pretty daughters; and a Hughes girl brought
a heliotrope dress and a head of copper-
colored hair.
In a current fashion parade the most
remarkable item was an evening gown of pale
gold tissue. It was not very “low and
behold,” but its remarkableness began about
level with the knees, where two wings edged
with fur floated out sideways. The edge of the
skirt was caught in between the knees
making a Turkish trousers of the auriferous
robe. It ought to be suitable for violent
gymnastic dancing.
Talking of fashion parades, a monarch of
the tailor-made came up irom Melbourne a
week or so ago to show his models. One
was a very dark navy, perfectly plain as to
the long coat and short skirt. It was on
a dummy figure, and the potentate explained
that it was destined for U.S.A. “I thought
it possible,” said the dame listening—“it will
stand the journey and keep in perfect shape
with all those tacking-stitclies.” The coat
was covered with vertical and h-.irizontal
“bastings” in white silk-twist about four
inches long. But the Master looked puzzled
Tacking stitches?” he echoed. “Yes. Isn't
that what they are? Won’t they be cut out
on arrival?” An assistant, fearing the
Master might have a heart-attack, hurriedly
butted in to explain that the long stitches
were the “decoration.” They were put in
to stay in. The dame felt that her ignorance
was abysmal.
There is something doing in the building
line at the Wentworth, whore a ballroom is
in construction that will take 600 people on
the floor, and in the gallery above the same
number may feast. The musicians’ gallery
is at the other end of the room. Plate glass,
electric lights, electric ventilation and other
modern accessories will blend harmoniously
with the _Georgian decoration and run the
bill to £7OOO. Afternoon tea-dances have
ceased during the building operations; but
Johnny and Joan can still dine and jazz
there when the lights are lit.
London lines from “Vandorian”:—
Amongst Australians who are making their home
in Blighty are the Gow Blacks, formerly of Westralia,
where he used to be something in the Public Works.
When a brother died in Yorkshire a pot of money
came their way, and the Works had to get on with-
out him. The eldest son has been missing in
France since the early days of the war, and never
a trace of him has been found. The younger lad
is shining through a science course at London
University.
Sydney playgoers will remember pretty Eva Quinn,
who fitted “The Morals of Marcus” like a French
glove. This Australian girl married Dr. Graham
Robertson, a Canadian, and lives in London, where
I met her the other week, the most radiant thing
in a day of slimy grey-green fog.
The Colonial Institute’s travelling sec., James
Boose, who toured Australia a few years ago, was
wed here the other day. The bride, a pleasant-
looking widow named Mrs. Chick, walked up the
aisle of old St. Martin’s-in-the-Fields in dove-gvey
plumage. At the wedding party one of the smart-
est frocks was worn by a Sydney woman, Mrs. 11. C.
Mac.fie. And, what is more, this frock, the latest
thing in wine-colored taffetas, tossed together in
puffs and pamiers, was made in Sydney.
Friday night at the Voluntary Workers’
Caf6 in Pitt-street saw the first of a senes
of monthly dinner jazzes. Mrs. A. J.
Jackson was responsible for the evening.
The girls pulled sleeveless jumpers
of Japanese-patterned cretonne over
their white gowns, and chrysanthemums
bobbed in their coiffures. For the first time
in Sydney many of the dancers felt the joy of
jazzing to the Syncopas Jazz Band —a quin-
tette formed in an aerodrome across the seas,
and lately arrived home.
The visiting Queensland and Vic. lady
swimmers garden-partied at the Hugh D.
Mclntoshes’ home at Bellevue Hill on Thurs-
day. Mrs. Hugh frocked in white organdie,
with blue flowers in a putty-toned hat. Marie
la Varre, Miss Mackenzie and Claude Flem-
ming dropped in upon the gathering and shed
the light in song, music and story. The
tennis-court was the scene of the tea-drink-
ing, and between cakes and ices the harbor
view was enthused over.
Mrs. Macintosh, once Walwyn Laidley, now
wife of the surgeon lieut.-commander who
was here on _ Jellicoe’s staff, left for England
last week with her baby daughter to rejoin
her husband.
Mrs. Clunies Ross, just back from France’s
devastated regions, wants to tell Australian
mothers that, though the abomination of
desolation is awful, there is not a neglected
soldier’s grave from Amiens to Albert. Even
a solitary grave in the centre of a ploughed
field was fenced and surmounted by a cross.
Following directions from London head-
quarters, Mrs. Ross was able to go straight
to the graves of her two sons. Her sister.
Mrs. Martin Donohoe, wife of the war corres-
pondent, accompanied her. When Mr.
Donohoe was suddenly recalled to Paris, she
and her sister prepared his book, “With the
Persian Expedition,” for the press. Mrs.
Ross returned with her son Alien (just
recovered from wounds) and his wife, whom
he recently married in England. She was
Miss Macdonald, of Sydney. To meet the
pair Mrs. Ross gave a garden party at Sher-
bomme, Woollahra, on Saturday.


ESTB
I = >
1853
Hardy Brothers Ltd.,
JEWELLERS.
DIAMOND BROOCHES.
The Brooches illustrated are manufactured in the
Company’s own workshops, and are representative
of a very choice and attractive selection on view
at their Showrooms.
loct. Gold Circle
Brooch, with Diamond
and Platinum Bow,
£9 10 0.
I act. Gold Oval Brooch,
with Pearl and
Diamond Spray,
£ll 10 0.
Fine Diamond and
Platinum Circle Brooch,
£9O 0 0.
Fine Diamond and Platinum Bow
Brooch,
£l3O 0 0.
Hardy Bros, make a
Jewellery., and will
special feature of Be-mounting Old-fashioned
be pleased to submit designs and estimates
free of charge.
13 Hunter Street, Sydney,
298 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
116-118 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE.
Take an Ensignette
Smallest of all Vest-Pocket Cameras
On Your Holiday Trip.
JB
l
I ti
■
FOR
ROLL
FILMS.
DAYLIGHT
LOADING.
BRITISH
MADE.
For Holiday Trips and Week-end Excursions the Ensignette No. 1 is an
ideal camera, as it can be carried in the Vest-Pocket or Lady’s Handbag
and opens ready for use in an instant. It is made of Dull Oxidised
Metal with Leather Bellows, Nickel Fittings, Time and Instantaneous
Shutter, Achromatic Meniscus Lens yielding clear, crisp negatives, lakes
Photos 2J x lil inches. Price 85/-. . .
Call and let us show you how easy it is to use and how dainty it is in
appearance. If you live out of town send for illustrated catalogue.
HAVE YOUR RESIDUES AND SWEEPS
TREATED AT HARRINGTON’S.
Jewellers, Dentists, Engravers and other Metal AA orkers can depend on
having their
Ores, Residues, Sweepings and Waste Products
expeditiously, scientifically and economically treated, if they send them to
Harringtons’ Metallurgical § Assay Department
We are Specialists in Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis.
yy e buy materials containing Gold, Silver or Platinum, and can supply those
metals and their alloys in plate or wire.
Give us a ring and our traveller will call on you. ’Phone City 8690 (8 lines).
s
CP
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 George Street, Sydney.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane.
144 Queen Street, Auckland:
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Worksi Booth and Trafalgar Streets* Annandale*
Before y
Get Particulars of
Western Ekttm
POWER and EIGHT.
FOR farms, stations, country stores, hotels, institutes, halls and
island plantations, Western Electric Power and Light brings
city comfort and convenience. This self-contained outfit gives
abundant electric light at a trifling cost —with plenty of current to
spare for operating electric fans, irons, washing machines, sewing
machines, toasters and handy motors.
The Western Electric Battery has a capacity of 180 ampere hours—-
more than twice the capacity of other lighting outfits. And
remember this! Western Electric Power and Light drives all farm
machinery too. Simply press a switch to disconnect the generator
and you get the full power of a engine. Drive your chaff-
cutter, saw bench, separator, feed mill, etc., direct from the engine-
pulley or by line shafting.
- ...
l
■
wm
'7m
‘Well, it’s a great outfit!
Western Electric Power and Light runs on kerosene, starts like
the self-starter on a motor-car, feeds itself with fuel and oil and
is fool proof. It’s the oufit that makes country life worth living.
It brings the brightness, safety and convenience of electricity, and
its engine power saves labor and time.
The Western Electric Outfit is the only lighting plant that pays
for itself by doing hard work in addition every day of the year.
Its dependability is assured by the fact that over 40 years of
electrical experience stand behind it. Don t buy an outfit that only
gives light. Get particulars of Western Electric Power and Light.
20-page book post free from
WESTERN ELECTRIC CO. (Australia) LTD.,
192 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. 262 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
AGENTS. —T. Tonks, Elizabeth Street, Brisbane; Newton McLaren, Leigh Street,
Adelaide; Medhurst Electric Co., 11 Argyle Street, Hobart; A. I>. Riley
& Co., Lambton Quay, Wellington. N.Z.; also at Christchurch, Auckland
- and Dunedin, N.Z.


“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
The above
is the title!
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
df
sdf
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing',
130 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS.
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE
RITSS H
MADE
PeHtectiorv
riur rubber.
A'
T
P
c
1
A SEASON’S
PLEASURE
The best time you ever
thought of is waiting.
Healthy exercise and
pleasure are free, why
not get out into the fresh
air and enjoy life, take
the opportunity and ad-
vantageoffered by nature
and visit all those places
you have thought so much
of and let those plans and
schemes become your re-
creation. You will never
regret insisting on a
bicycle built of genuine
B.S.A. Fittings. The first-
class reputation of B.S.A.
Fittings in England is a
sure guarantee, while
perfect construction en-
sures easy running, reli-
ability and long service.
THOROUGHLY BRITISH.
B.S.A. Fittings are guar-
anteed interchangeable.
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing
B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
TRADE MARKS
B.S.A.
Wanted to Buy.
OLD SILVER—We wish to buy any quantities of
silver for meltins: purposes.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD., 23 Hunter St., Sydney.
:~n
Ha
&
y*K-r ■"
‘ 'S
m
m
- I 53
sd
.-crhe-
PeiTeci Pipe
“THE LONE FISHERMAN,” so
called, is rarely lonely. He is a keen
smoker who enjoys the cheery com-
panionship of his GBD Pipe.
MANY SHAPES. SOLD EVERYWHERE.
INFLUENZA
Used In the Melbourne Hospitals
Brooke’s “Lemos”
The Purest Lemon Squash.
rin
O
Showing
Bottle
de-mounte.i
Made in various
sizes and styles
KEEPS CONTENTS
Ice-Cald 72 hrs. Hot 24 brs.
Icy-Hot Bottles are
ideal for all climates
and are made for
hard usage.
Extra Protection
is ensured by a coilea
spring and felt pad
which absorbs jolts
and jarsandmakes the
bottle practically un-
breakable.
Absolutely
S; nit „ r>
because the
spring-tight
neck-hitting
preventsleak
age of liquid into the outer case.
The Name ICY-HOT clearly stamped
on the bottom of each bottle is a guar-
antee of the Standard of Perfection
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES.
Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
The ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.,
Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.:
159 West Second Street.
Icy-Hot Jar
for solidfood
Australian Mutual
£,,a “ M
87 H pitt Stfsydney PfO VidSftt SOCkty
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Although over £750,000 was paid dur-
ing 1918 in War Claims alone, the
Cash Bonus Distributed lor 1918
exceeded.. .. £1,000,000
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. ~ £1,700,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £39,000,000
Annual income over . . .. .. £5,500,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell# Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to soil.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
d
Situations Vacant.
ROCERY SALESMAN required by
reputable firm introduce Australian
manufactures as side-line in suburbs and
country. Splendid opportunity, very good
earnings to live men. Apply Box 1930 City.
BE SURE TO GET
AN EDISON AMBEROLA.
There are various models of
the Edison Amberola, and
you can select one to exactly
suit your requirements.
The lower-priced models are
particularly convenient in
use; one may readily be
carried from room to room
or out on the verandah or
balcony—equally conveni-
ent, too, for use on a launch
or yacht or at a seaside or
mountain resort.
The nearest Edison dealer will
gladly demonstrate the various
styles to you. In the meantime
write us for the latest catalogue,
sent post free on request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale
only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
sf
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A'o notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. A'o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
sinless stamps accompany.
G. P. Oet: Before you sent us that dear
olcl, short-sighted ex-officer of the Postal Department
who followed the laundryman and then “reported'’ a
postal assistant, you should have given him a new
pair of hoots. He has been trudging to this office
regularly- for 20 years....F. Gil: But you don’t
seriously put it that the wretched pay of teachers
justifies the long school-holidays, do you ? As a
matter of fact, the teachers who are least badly
paid are attached to schools that have the most
extravagant vacations... .Organ: May be true, but
nobody would believe it unless you made the story
more circumstantial.... Lau: You’re probably right;
but Champion has covered the ground fairly well.
. ...P.T.F.: There's plenty of thrill, but the inci-
dents arc too far away....!,.: No; you can’t rhyme
“children” and “opinion,” nor “outside” and “eyes”
either. We don’t believe you could rhyme “ink-
bottle'’ and “oranges.” But we’ll gire you this
credit—we believe you’d try. .. .L.M.D.0.: Verses
haven’t marrow enough in the bones... .P.P.W. :
Nothing for us there... .John Me: Verse doesn’t quite
carry “The Tryer”. .. .B.B.: You can improve that.
....Albert E. K.: Y’ou want us to reprint from a
i Family Herald 70 years old. We don’t reprint, and
we wouldn’t reprint verse like that if it were
705,060,198 years old C.D.C.: “The Old” doesn’t
do it. .. .M.E.W.: Don’t care for “Simon”... .James
II.: Opening lines of “Remembrance” spoil it. Try
again.... A.T.A.: Some of the verses stumble and
some fall down.... Aspiration: No hope for it....
E.C.N.: Rabbit verse very bad. .. . W.V.C.: Not
enough there. .. .Sorrento : No use G.Y. (Melb.) :
Doesn’t say. enough Jimmy G.: Intention good;
performance sorrowful Louis H.: If you can sell
that sort of thing in America, for- Heaven’s sake
send it there... .D.C.K.: Call it anything you like;
a name can’t make it worse.... Florence A.: The
editor of that paper must be a poor judge or an
adept at following the line of least resistance....
W.M.W.: When you say “The muse has left me
barren” you state one of the eternal verities....
Titus H.: No use.... Plug Ugly: Verse is all over
the place Peter F.: Opening stanzas of the “Gold
Seeker” deserve immortality. Here it is:—
Of the city loafer enough has been said,
But the toff I cannot understand,
Why he is clothed and he’s fed
By the toilers of this beautiful land.
My old boss he is also fond of a rest,
And he’s neither handsome or free,
But he will always do his best,
Although he has no pedigree.
Now we are away from town or city.
Like martyrs tough and old —-
Away from hate or pity
Amongst the hills and gold.
Come, hurry up, old chap;
It’s fast becoming night.
And we must try to reach yonder gap.
O Lord! his hide is gettin’ tight.
....Chanco: Verse not up....C.C. (Lewisham):
That metre belongs to Longfellow, who borrowed it
from the Red Indians... .Alan B.: The bush idea
has been done before; and you don’t make very
much of it... . Bruce B.: Though none is up there
is promise in the batch. But avoid imitations,
in matter and manner, as you would a mad devil
with a red-hot toasting-fork.... Syd S.: They have
to be better than that J.8.H.: “Cairo” doesn’t
score.... Edith B.: Have it your own way ; but it’s
not a subject for verse. . . .One O Five: The makings
of a fine yarn. Think up a little more substance
for it....lnfra Dig: The 24-hour jests were working-
overtime in 1884, and their revival would need to
be in better verse. .. .T.L.W. : Not bright enough,
though the material is there... .A.T.A.: “Faces” is
too suggestive of a better handling of the same
subject. . . .No Name (Middle Brighton) : The rose
and bear and continent idea wanted better treatment.
. ...J.A.J.: No use. .. . V.H.C. : Dull stuff of the
obvious kind... . 4M.P.: You say “Poetry being a
game of mine.” Let us see some of the merry stuff.
Present sample is staggering verse.... Bertha A. J. :
Doesn’t say anything L.C.R.: The sort of sketch.
that might have been thrilling about 1840 T.G.W.:
Uninteresting verse which nowhere gets a fresh
thought or phrase C.U.T.8.: It’s got to be better
than that Howard D.: “Scotty” doesn’t make
much of a yarn.... Rowley C.: Afraid your superior
information isn’t accurate. What do you mean by
his disputing “innumerable and interesting boudoirs,”
anyhow ?.... Porphyro: Haven’t an idea what it
means.... J. de Y.: Verse very lumpy. For instance,
you can’t rhyme “harm” with “calm” in this paper.
. .. .Rcve: “Magic” nearly. .. .Tin Hat: Incident well
enough handled, but you don't convince the reader
that it mattered tuppence G.T.H.: One might
d0....1.F.: A poor sonnet with weak lines and a
hamstrung movement... .Darius: “Petesiris” is rather
heavy fooling in rather lame verse.... V.R.D.:
Sketch doesn’t amount to anything. .. .S.S.: Not good
enough. A rhyme to each line, please Mathetes:
Buy a curry-comb for your Pegasus. His coat’s too
rough.. . .G.N. : “Night” misses L.A.S.: Not up.
Sydney G.: Too slight W.M.H.M.: You
apologise for not having a typewriter and then
write on both sides of the paper, and don’t even
look over it to see if what you’ve written means
anything-... .Wangi: “Back Door” doesn’t work.
Larry has been done before —often and better.
.... Meona: Thanks; but that sort of compilation
has been made too often... .Vince: You can’t make
verse by the simple process of putting a dictionary
through a sausage-machine and cutting language
into short lengths. Poetry doesn’t always mean
something, but the poet should at least give his
friends a chance to argue that it does. . . .P.D.P.:
Well done; but the tail of it is worn out.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.C.G.: Not well drawn and no gaiety.... James
N.: Hope less and study more.... A.Mcli.: There
are no shillings in it for you J. 8.: Not even the
reference to “your famous weekly” can get it past.
... .N.W.Mclt.: Try a tailors’ paper....G.S.: We
must do without it. Homeward bound... .L.S.:
Gloom all through... .Woodieus: Both outed....
R.McG.: Mrs. Sydney is a graceful, drooping figure,
but the caller is a waxwork. Try again... .8.M.:
Regret unsuitable.
A jockey at Young (N.S.W.) walked
through the window of his bedroom at the
Australian Hotel and fell 13ft.; and when
some mates rushed out to pick him up they
found him still upright and still asleep. It
■ | m '’ "■stood that he is to be called to the
Leg. Council.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitt
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabtnes-ae-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads anu
private - Bathrooms.
Single-berth Looms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding . sailing
dates, and First-. Second- and Third-class
fares.
Tel.-
ORIKNT
-Citv 4246,
4247,
4810.
Apply
S. N. CO., Ltd.,
2, 4. (i Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes —Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, MARCH 17,
VENTURA.
10,QUO Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Picturesque Route to Brisbane.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 13s. (id. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 7s. 6d. For particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES ; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROTSEUT PIIILP,
K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. .T. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated tinder the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to .lime 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO.OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 770,127 10 0
Reserve Funa . . .. .. . • 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since ISOS specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Banning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
lion. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; .Limes Love. Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq.; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE --- BRISBANE.
.Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
tli rough out Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors : HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman ;
. GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C. ; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedie Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 146 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £629,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital ~ .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
GRANTS DRAFTS SiSSMSft
Britain and Ireland, and other places:
RECEIVES deposits fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, Early.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World—the Canadian Rockies —is on the All-Bed Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Palls and New York can all be visited.
Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
Tile Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palls, etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
sdf
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua % and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
lteserve Fund
Reserve Liability
d
£4,000,000
8 .200,000
4,000,000
£14,200,000
The Hon. Sir Cnarles Iv. MacKellar, K.C.M.G..
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland. Ksq. - . _
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faitht'ull, Esq., M.D.
The lion. .Tames T. Walker.
E. B. S. Esq
Auditors • A G Milson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office— 39 Threadneedle Street, EC.
341 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
CommonwealtbJi|J6attk ot Sustralta
■ HEAD OFFICE SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain) ; London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2782 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
War Service Homes, as Agent for the Commissioner
(A special Department in each Capital City)
JAMES KELL, DENISON MILLER,
Deputy Governor 1920 Governor
SAVE ALL YOU CAN
by depositing in the
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales
(Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY).
Deposits accepted from 1/- upwards. Interest paid at
3f per cent, per annum on every complete £ up to £5OO.
Personal, Joint and Trust Accounts opened.
140 Branches and 501 Agencies throughout the State.
Shipping:.
SHOW:
Osaka ShosenKaisha
(O.S.K. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service Manila,
Hong Kong, Japan and the East. Tran-
shipment cargo accepted for all Eastern
ports. Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhipping at Japan.
KUNAJIRI MARU, middle Febru-
ary.
MITSUKI MARU, middle March.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
of Australia,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
40 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: City 4166, Six Lines.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide.
Huddart Parker Ll^
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
SAILINGS (Intercolonial and Inter-
State) SUSPENDED DURING
ENGINEERS’ STRIKE.
HUDDART PARKER, LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne;
George Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAisHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
bv this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their Passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, Pl-lILP AND COMPANY, LTD..
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue fully
describing our PATENT AIR CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we sta 11
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
'illustrated CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address:
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
Black heath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
Biitish India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
P. & S o. d ’s! y N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane. , , , _ . , .
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. at Queens-
°Co? of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Huddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland P°»'ts).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Busbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Bnsbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steameis, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


“Orbe”: An Anglican parson friend of
mine, who has been guilty of several bellow-
dramas of the kind Dan Barry loved, told
me that he was introduced to H. B. Irving
in Melbourne, and at once got down to busi-
ness. “Would it surprise you very much,
Mr. Irving,” said he, “to hear that I have
written a play?” Irving gazed at him sadly
for a moment and replied: “It would sur-
prise me very much to hear that you hadn’t!”
“Badad”: As an Australian I do protest
against the bad advertisements handed out
to Australia by Australians abroad and at
home. Bailey and Grant, I believe, are to
show “Oh Our Selection” in England. This
is No. 1 bad advt. for our country, and No. 1
libel on the up-country man and woman. As
a caricature of Backblock life it is all right
here, and funny; but if B. and G. put it on
abroad as an Australian play, typical of the
soil and full of Australian character, etc.,
without making a few well-chosen remarks
about a caricature —well, we will have to
come down on the taxpayer again, and
create a new department to eradicate the evil
influence of Australian plays. We want
immigrants and “On Our Selection” does not
present the prettiest of attractions. The
second bad advt. is “The Sentimental Bloke”
picture, which goes abroad. As a picture it
is good; as a sample of what the average
Australian does in his spare time it is as
bad as it can be. A land where young men
fell three or four John Hops before break-
fast, and “do time” as a college course, will
not make a good impression. The average
Englishman, after seeing “On Our Selec-
tion” and the first part of the “Sentimental
Bloke” picture, would wonder why the
Aussies had not eaten him had he not seen
them in the flesh.
“P.”: N.S.W. Railway Commissioners,
having started a grocery store, might take
on “wild rabbo” as well. They have plenty
of raw material, at any rate. Lately stock-
inspector Bell told the Young P.P. Board
that embankments at various points on the
main southern line were so riddled with bur- j
rows that during recent heavy rain some j
miles of permanent way crumbled and held i
up the traffic. A big smash, with compensa-
tion claims, is already waybilled. Mean-
time adjacent Hayseed goes on asking pathe-
tically why he should be eaten alive by the
overflow bunny from the Commissioners’
sacrosanct breeding-farms, and gets no reply.
A
“ABBEY”
on a Shoe
is a guarantee of quality combined with
comfort and exact fitting. Our big range
of “fittings,” full and half sizes—narrow,
medium or wide—enables our clients to
obtain the same satisfaction as though
the footwear were “built” specially to
their order.
We illustrate a choice Patent g* /
Oxford Bal. with Dull Calf Legs. . /
All Patent ... . 67(0
Tan Calf 60/-
Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY.
*
GOUT
AND RHEUMATIC PILLS
The Famous Medicine that relieves
RHEUMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA,
The Great Discovery of the Age.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. English price, 1/3 and 31-
Prout & Co., 229, Strand, London.
Wanted to Buy.
Diamonds, pearls & other fine gems.—
We wish to bur in anv quantities.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD., 23 Hunter St., Sydney.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
-p IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
OPENING NEXT SATURDAY AFTERNOON AT
THE MATINEE AT 2.30,
THE WHIRL OF GIRL.
Plans at Nicholson's and the Tivoli.
■piVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, FEBRUARY 21.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
THE FANTASTIC MUSICAL COMEDY,
“AS YOU WERE.”
Prices as usual.
Clt 1 T E It IO N TII EA T It E. SYDNISt.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
LIGHTNIN’.
A Comedy Drama by Winchell Smith and Frank
Bacon, introducing the famous American character-
actor JOHN D. O’HARA and a specially-selected
cast of players.
Plan at Paling’s.
HE It M A .1 E S T V ’ S. S Y I> N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NIGHTLY AT 7.50.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
THE REVUSICAL COMEDY DE LUXE.
THE BING BOYS ON BROADWAY.
For the First Time in Australia.
Plans at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
DA LACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Direction J. and N. TAIT.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS OF
EMELIE POLINI
in the English Comedy-Drama,
THE LITTLE DAMOZEL.
Plan Nicholson’s. Day Sale White Rose.
UNI O N PIC TUIt IS TIIisAT It K S
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE. LYRIC. EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
|_|KK .MAJESTY'S THEATRIC, MELBOURNE
* ■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present their Gorgeous
Pantomime Extravaganza,
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY.
Plan at Allan’s. Popular Prices. #
Til 1C A T It IS It O Y A L. MELBOURNE
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING -AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Attractive
Musical Play,
KISSING TIME.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
IN(i’S THEATRE. M E I, It O D It N E.
Lessees: BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. and N. TAIT and BAILEY and GRANT
present their Grand Spectacular Pantomime,’
MOTHER HUBBARD.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
LJOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
* • Also SYDNEY.
DF, LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
GLADYS BROCKWELL in
THE SNEAK.
PEGGY lIYLAND in
COWARDICE COURT.
Prices as usual.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CLARA KIMBALL YOUNG
in
CHEATING CHEATERS.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
-J- HE ALLAI7 WILKIE COMPANY,
Including Miss FREDISWYDE HUNTER-WATTS,
Touring New Zealand in
HINDLE WAKES, CANDIDA, THE SCHOOL FOR
SCANDAL, SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER. TRILBY,
CAMILLE, THE SILVER KING, THE MIDNIGHT
WEDDING.
Waitara Feb. 20, Stratford Feb. 21, Eltham Feb. 23,
Inglewood Feb. 24, Wanganui Feb. 25 to Feb. 28.
QLACIA R I U M, MELBOURNE.
JAZZ PALAIS
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING,
8.15 to 10.45.
BUILDING ARTIFICIALLY COOLED.
MISS HUTCHISON’S JAZZ BAND.
Admission 1/-
Single Dances -/6
Book of 14 Dance Tickets 8/6
gRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SEI.ZNICK.
Legal Notices.
TEGAL. —A good Partnership is availabi
J in a leading practice in Central Queens
land. Applications in first instance t
“Lex,” Box 109 G.P.0.. Brisbane.
M.S. DEPENDABLE SPORTS GOODS.
Every Kind of Sport and Recreation Catered for.
&
A
2
y
Quality Goods at
Honest Prices,
EVERYTHING FOR
TENNIS.
RACKETS.
Haymarket .. .. 30/-
Haymarket Special .. 50/-
Haymarket Selected .. 60/-
Slazenger’s La Belle .. 22/6
Slazenger’s Player . . 25/-
olazenger’s Renshaw • 40/-
Slazenger’s Demon . . 45/-
Slazenger’s Whitehouse 52/6
M.S. Handicap 10/6
M.S. Champion 15/6
Special Champion .... 16/6
Special Samples 30/-
Ayre’s Handicap 30/-
Ayre’s A 1 35/-
Ayre’s S.N.D go/-
Avre’s Special 75/-
Slazenger’s Doherty . . 75 /.
Slazenger’s Stadium .. 70/-
(Postage on Racket: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Specialists in
All Kinds of
RACKET REPAIRS
BALLS
Each. Doz.
-/» 8/6
1/4 15/-
1/4 15/-
Grey Regulation
Challenge Covered .. .
Dunlop Regulation Grey
Each. Doz.
Dunlop’s Champion 2/7 30/-
Ayre’s 1920 Champion 3/. 35/.
Slazenger’s 1919 Champion 3/. 35/-
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 1/-; other States. 1/8.)
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
Tennis Court Markers 30/-
Tennis Tapes 22/6
Racket Covers 2/6, 4/6
Tennis Ratchet 7/6
Gut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets bottle -/9
Each.
The “H” Racket Press 2/9
The “Grip” Racket Press 3/6, 4/6
Racket Handle Covers... • ••• 1/-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books 1/3
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils,
2/-, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6 coil.
Tracey’s Gut, 21ft. coils,
4/6, 6/9, 9/- coil.
sdf
BOXING.
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES. Setoff.
C.R.8., real leather, special value 11/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, best tan napa, laced‘palms 6or 8 0z... 13/6
C.8.8i, Fighting, superior napa, laced palms, leather lined,
6 or 8 oz 16/6
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
G or 8 oz 22/6
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, 6 or
8 oz 26/-
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING, napa, curled hair, laced
palms, 6 or 8 oz 28/*
THE “LIGHTNING,” made in Australia, officially
adopted and exclusively used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by
Mr. Keg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker 30/-
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; othe” States, 1/8.)
YOUTHS’ GLOVES. Set of 4.
FIGHTING, napa leather, hair stuffed 9/-
„ Tan 'Leather, ~ . ~ 10/6
very superior, ~ ~ .... 15/-
„ Laced, ~ ~ .... 15/-
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BAND,
7in. wide (Post 4d) 9/6 each.
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) 6/6 each.
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light,
weight about 3%0z. (Post C|d.) 17/6 pair.
Keep your razor
keen by using—
STROPOLIME,
9d T,N
• (Post Free).
sdf
PUNCHING BALLS.
We carry a wide range, including the famous REACH
Balls. A few minutes each day at Ball Punching will
keep you in good condition.
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, soft leather, light
make, for fast work, .... 10/6, 12/6, 16/6
"REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine
leather, staved seams, very fast —
18/6, 22/6, 25/-
"REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest
napa leather, welted and stayed, verv fast and lively—
-30/-, 35/-
“REACH” ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball,
specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and
perfec t shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid.
The finest made 45/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for ceiling 15/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather,
double-stitched, very light 21/, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings .. 20/-, 22/6, 25/-, 30/-
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete.... 60/-
Above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Armv or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Ball Gloves . 3/9, 4/9 i». Mitts .... 2/9 pr.
Punching Platforms 40/-, 60/-, 90/- each
Ball and Socket Swivels 1/6, 2/6
Ball-bearing Swivels 6/6 „
SPORTING REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, Tennis Rackets, Cricket Bats, Skates, Golf
Clubs, Hockey and Lacrosse Sticks, Fishing Rods, Reels, etc., repaired
by expert Workmen. Lowest Charges.
Send for copies of “Can't B Beat,” Sportsman's Guide (Bl) and “Sure Catch ” 1919
Angler's Guide (B 2). All sportsmen should possess them. Post free to any address.
1C
!_y‘
msnwLm's greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
arm tobacconists
sdf
City Sports Depot
99 King St, also at
Newcastle £ Brisbane >


“Rexona Soap is My Soap,”
says Olga Robinson. Is it Yours ?
LITTLE OLGA ROBINSON
(from a Monte Luke photo).
Little Olga Robinson is Australia’s
younsrest authoress. She is a born
genius in the art of graphic expres-
sion. Her book, “Olga’s Dreams and
Fancies,’’ dedicated to her firm friend,
Oantain-Chaplain James Wilson, the
well-known War Lecturer, has just
been published, and has created a
sensation in art circles. Olga is but
seven years of age. Her mother
writes: —•
I send you herewith a
photograph of Olga, just as
she looked when given a
present of a new box of
your beautiful Rexona Soap.
She calls Rexona “My
Soap,” and positively re-
fuses to use any other.
Rexona certainly is a perfect
soap—it makes the skin so
healthy and silky to touch
and the hair so bright and
wholesome-looking. I need
not praise the little triangu-
lar tin of Rexona Ointment,
for everyone knows its
value. For cuts, abrasions,
and the thousand and one
accidents that happen in the
course of even one year,
there is nothing to equal it
as a healing agent.
I think Olga must be the
youngest member of your
famous Rexona Club—she is
only seven.
With best wishes,
I remain, yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) MABEL ROBINSON.
I They Go Together—Beauty and Rexona . |
To obtain and keep that clear, unblemished skin, and bright, glossy hair which
is the desire of every girl and woman, you should use only an absolutely pure
vegetable soap. Such a soap is Rexona Skin and Facial Soap. It is cooling,
soothing and healing, and is medicated on the same principle as Rexona, the Rapid
Healer, the value of which, in the treatment of skin disease, is famous throughout
the world. Simply use Rexona Skin and Facial Soap regularly, and you will be
delighted with the improvement. Care for yourself and others will care for you.
Rexona Soap, 1/- per tablet. Rexona the Rapid Healer, 1/6 and 3/-
:
IN & FACIAL
■ '
MEDICATED SOAP
THE SAFETY PEN NEVER LEAKS.
Self-Filling, 17/- Valveless, 12/6.
ONOTO INK—Best for ail Pens—Obtainable Everywhere
w
sdf
d
Permanent
and Perfectly
x Fireproof Structures
may be erected without expert knowledge and in the shortest
possible time with the
Standardised System of Building
which is ideal for the erection of such buildings as
BARNS, GARAGES, HANGARS, WOOLSHEDS,
HAYSHEDS, MACHINE SHOPS, etc.
Units are interchangeable, easily erected, easily transported, no riveting
required. Fullest particulars from
(dip
o
SYDNEY
Entirely
Australian.
1
<sr.
CO
OK
ITOMIK
MNK-
GARAGE
&
Dawn in Anatolia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ON tomblike stillness dawns the day,
When in the East a feeble ray
Peers through Night’s sable mantle
spread
In seamless blackness overhead.
It gleams and grows, and creeps apace
Far tip the sky; and soon the face
Of Nature, semi-veiled and still,
Shows blurred and dim, in field and hill.
In silent, sure and steady rout,
The sickly stars go slowly out;
But not a sound of beast or bird
Nor human kind can yet be heard ;
Until far off a crowing cock,
As if the silence he would mock,
A morning challenge shrills around
And wins replies from bird and hound.
And birds, deep-sheltered in the trees,
Their leafy homes swayed by the breeze
That rustles gently through the corn,
With noisy chatter greet the morn.
The glowing light climbs up the sky,
A gleaming amber mounting high
Above the grey and sullen shaues
Where earth with blended heaven fades.
The imaums from the mosque-tops call
Their trilly chants, that swell, and fall,
And mingle, echoing everywhere,
Enjoining men to kneel in prayer.
A ragged cloud, wind-frayed and torn,
But golden fringed, and seeming shorn
From some gemmed tapestry on high,
Unravels on the Eastern sky.
A row of trees far down the plain
That seemed to marge a winding lane
Transforms to camels, gaunt and slow—
A sauntering, swaying, tinkling row.
The sun peeps up, a blaze of gold,
All radiant-faced, round-eyed, and bold,
At which long shadows, grey with fright,
Start creeping slyly out of sight.
Some country carts creak down the road,
The oxen straining at their load,
And drivers urging them along
With raucous shout and snatch of song.
With clash of clogs and noisy shout
The little children now come out;
Little they know of games and toys
These slow droll girls and sad-eyed boys.
The men and women of the soil
Bizarre, betrousered, bronzed with toil,
Waist-deep in shimmering fields are seen
Afloat upon a sea of green.
The. doors about the shaded town
Begin to open ; and a-down
The narrow, crudely cobbled street
Come, softly shuffling, slippered feet.
Like clumsy crows, close-veiled and stout,
With just a dark eye peeping out
Beneath great folds of sombre wear,
The dowdy women take the air.
Unshaven louts in ill-made suits,
And scarlet fez. and unbrushed boots,
Black browed—one decent face to ten—
Strut past, and try to look like men.
IN CAPTIVITY,
AVION KARA lIISSAR.
T. W. WHITE.
Moth and Rust.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SAILING to Albany Pass in the mission
cutter the Reverend Wm, Penny-
ehook felt that the world went very
well. The contributions of the few devout
people in the Straits who believe in missions
for the poor Indian bulked little beside the
careless donations of the free-handed pearlers
who gave to anything because temperament
and the opulence of the climate had made
them incapable of saying “No” to most
propositions. He had the donations in notes—
five tens of the Commonwealth, four fives,
18 singles, and 29 pounds in orders and
traders’ shinplasters—and he decided against
tempting the Providence he preached, and so
deposited the harvest in the camphorwood-
trunk in the trading station at Albany Pass
while he extended his collecting tour east-
ward into the throat of the Coral Sea.
The cutter floated past Somerset, with its
coeoanut-palms making a running fight with
the indigenous ti-tree, and coasted a shore
dotted at regular intervals with termite
nests high as tombstones and suggesting a
cemetery of little children’s graves. Southerly
they were builded on a larger plan. They
became great meridianal anthills, and their
color changed from red to chocolate —the
tremendous works of the termite which is
to the land what the coral animal is to the
tropic seas. Immediately before the open-
ing of the nor’-west monsoon the winged
termites make their appearance in immense
swarms, and the waiting ants, spiders, birds
and lizards gorge themselves to surfeit. When
a mature pair of termites escape their
enemies and go courting, they are at once
‘taken care of bv a community of workers,
who build a nest around and immure them.
Longitude varies the shape and habit of the
hills—there are the pyramidal mounds of
Cape York, the dome-shaped hills of Car-
pentaria, the columnar and turreted nests of
the Territory, and the tortoise-backed ter-
mitaria of Nor’-West Australia, while the
Kimberley country provides freak termitaria
imitating a damaged locomotive, a sitting
hen or a fat man dressed in shaggy furs.
Mr. Pennychook’s lugger was shoved by
his partially-saved Kiwai boys into a little
bay ending in a beach with palm-trees wring-
ing their hands over it, backed by more cocoa-
nuts and a few belts of pawpaw, each with
its coterie of chattering satin-birds. Flank-
ing it to the south was another cemetery of
children’s tombstones, and on a little rise
therein, embowered in creepers and blazing
with bougainvillea, a hut ot haidwood. Mr.
Pennychook’s host was absent, but the door
was open as always, open and clear of the
floor to escape the white ant, and swinging
from a waliplate and lintel of cypress pine
invulnerable to the pests. Mr. Fennychook
entered the house and made a meal of canned
mutton, tea and biscuit; then he took the
notes and the key of the camphorwood-box
from his pocket, opened the box, lifted out
eight pounds’ weight of Bible, placed the
notes in the centre of the Bible, and returned
it to the camphorwood-box, which he re-
locked. And in the early afternoon he beat
through the pass again against the light and
variable winds, made the beach at Nablieer
by dusk, landed with his little notebook
in one hand and an indelible pencil in the
other, and re-opened his campaign for funds.
The monsoon came in early that season,
and it caught the Rev. Fennychook un-
awares. lie Had lingered to missionise here
a little and there a little .after his collecting
campaign closed; for he was an energetic
and conscientious little man ; and he turned
his face west again for Thursday Island in
the sure and certain belief that, in his own
Biblical plagiarisms, he had borne the heat
and burden of the day, had gone forth to
his labor in the morning and now returned
in the evening bringing his sheaves with him.
It was only one sheaf, to be quite correct, a
sheaf of notes of the value of seventy-three
pounds ten shillings. He thought also of
the sheaves he had stored already in the
camphorwood-box in the hut south of Albany
Fass, and he sailed the mission cutter sou’-
west from an island sick with decaying vege-
tation puffed in his face by the monsoon
that had not yet settled down to duty.
The torrential rain fell within the boat
so that one of the Kiwais had to bale her
frequently ; on a greasy sea, stale and flat-
tened by the rain, the mission lugger ran
down Albany Pass, opened the sight of the
children’s cemetery and lost it again, and
at long last anchored before the beach
flanked by other tombstone-like anthills with
the climber-covered hut standing on its rise,
now so sodden that the building seemed as
if it would slip through all the mush and
And the seafloor.
The palms threshed slowly and heavily
through the rain ; the red and chocolate soil
had become a slurry; rain dropped from
every finger of the tre*fc Approaching the
house the Rev. Pennyokook saw and heard
much life among the anthills; it was the
feast of birds and lizards and mankind upon
the new and tender bodies of _ the ants ap-
proaching the time of courting and new
building. Birds, lizards, black ants and
aboriginals were the guests at this wedding-
feast of the termites; and they gorged in-
discriminately, eating brides, grooms, maids,
pages and servants by the thousand. A little
group of blacks had broken down one of
the hills that looked like a child’s tombstone,
and the soft, sickly white bodies of the ter-
mites showed by the million sweating in the
hot rain and swooning at the light that
stunned them. The men ate, not ants, but
the greasy organic earth of the nests; the
dirt-eaters were so busy that they scarcely
grunted in greeting of Mr. Pennychook.
“And what are you doing, my friends?”
asked Mr. Fennychook, being of that class
of intelligence which blinks at a glaring
noon and says, “Why. the sun is shining!”
A large, pot-bellied gentleman wearing a
pair of torn bathing trunks and naught else
but a brilliantly polished black skin opened
a mouth like ivory and red velvet and re-
plied : “Been catchem plenty this feller,’’
illustrating his statement by eating another
handful of the mixture of termites and their
one-time res.uence.
“Indeed! Of course! Mister Ned not
home?”
“No, he no home long time. He no been
come this place one feller moon.”
•'Then he’s been away since before I was
here last,” said Mr. Fennychook, perspir-
ing anew in the Turkish bath of the mon-
soonal change and in a fear of the theft of
the sheaves in the camphorwood box. He
changed hands to the burden of his black
bag, for it was heavy in that breathless air,
and went his way to the hut. It seemed as
he had left it; the door opened and clear-
ing the floor by a foot —dependent for safety
from the ne- on it- cioor-posts of invulner-
able cypress-pine. But as Mr. Pennychook
came to the door he saw that these blind
organisms had projected their intelligence tc
take the place of eyes. Through their armor
of the darkness jthev felt or heard that door
swinging above their tunnels with a foot of
daylight between it and the earth. In the
darkness thev had raised a pyramid of the
organic earth, and had risen with it until
they had invested the lower edge of the
door. Then they had carried six inches
higher their coffer-dam against the fatal light
and open air, and so began their work of
destroying the wood from within. Mr.
Fennychook marvelled at them. He knew
that when he left the door bad been moving
in the wind; now it was held fast, and the
disproportionate thickening of the upper
section of the coffer-dam or pyramid had
been necessary to capture the swinging door.
So the blind organisms had worked in the
dark at a higher object which eluded them.
They could not have started work until
the rain had made the earth moist enough to
work up into mortar; for how long before
had they been planning the investment of
the door? For what time thinking out a
way to conquer cypress-pine and daylight?
“Wonderful are Ilis works!” said Mr.
Pennychook to himself, in all devoutness and
sincerity, and entered the hut. The new
monsoon has sent his advance-agent with
several letters of introduction. The boots of
the absent host wore mildew as long as a
Methodist’s whiskers, and Mr. Pennychook,
saying “Dear! Dear! Ned’s boots! Oh,
dear,” put his bag upon the floor of ants'-
nest earth and tried to lift a boot. Instead
he lifted a festoon of damp and unpleasant
moss, and then he saw the white ants had
made a little wry-necked pyramid to the
boots over the edge of the colonial oven on
which they had been placed for safety.
Mr. Pennychook said “Dear! Dear!” yet
again, lifted his bag and placed it on the
table. The heavy bag sank through the
table; the fabric collansed into greasv dust.
Eaten from within, it had preserved form
without substance until Mr. Pennychook’s
black bag arrived to restore the laws of
gravitation. “Well! Well! Dash the
white ants!” said the missionary petulantly;
(Continued on next puye.)


GRATEFUL PEOPLE
VOICE THEIR PRAISE FOR ZAM-BUK.
Mr. J. Ashton
f\
ss®
Little Florric Lawson
Mr. Humphries.
CUTS, BRUISES, BURNS
AND PULES. —Mrs. J. Ashton,
residing at 385 Carrington Street,
Adelaide, says :—“Zam-Buk has
been a valuable asset in our home
for the healing of cuts, burns and
bruises; but my husband has had
even wider experience with Zam-
Buk than we have, as he contracted
piles, which gave him awful trouble.
The excessive irritation drove him
distracted at times. After various
treatments had been tried, Zam-Buk
was used as a last resource. The
irritation subsided almost immedi-
ately. It was wonderful how Zam-
Buk soon cured him. It is a splen-
did balm. Zam-Buk has proved
most satisfactory all round in our
home.”
AWFUL ECZEMA.— Mrs. A.
Lawson, of 61 Buckland Street, Sydney,
writes: “My little girl had a bad attack
of eczema on her head. The irritation
was dreadful. Her head was in an awful
state. Having found the hospital treatment
of no use. I started treating the Eczema
with Zam-Buk. The way Zam-Buk soothed
and stopped the itching was marvellous.
Zam-Buk seemed to get right to the root of
the disease, so that the sores eventually
dried off, leaving nice, new skin behind.”
LEG GASHED WITH AN
AXE. Mr. IV. Humphries, 51 Ferndale
Street, Newtown, Sydney, writes: —“I was
employed at wood-cutting and clearing scrub
in the country some time ago, and often
met with accidents more or less severe.
On one occasion the axe slipped and my
leg was badly gashed. I applied Zam-Buk
by first spreading it on the bandage, and
this quick application of Zam-Buk un-
doubtedly prevented the wound becoming
more serious than it did. After I had per-
severed with the treatment for a little
more than a week the wound healed up
from the bottom, and in less than a fort-
night no trace of the injury w r as left.”
People the world over
sing the praises of
Zam=Buk. The won =
derful efficacy of this
famous Balm never
fails to give satis-
faction. Its variety of
medicinal properties—
healing, soothing, anti-
septic and germicidal—
has led to Zam-Buk
being described as “a
complete surgery in a
two-inch pot.” Zam-
Buk contains neither
any rancid animal fat
nor mineral drug such
as mercury, lead or
zinc.
Always keep a pot of
Zam-Buk in your home
and you will soon learn
how indispensable it is
for the accidents that
WILL happen.
LEG RACKED WITH RHEU-
MATISM.—Miss Evelyn Jacobs, of
48 Stephenson Street, Richmond,
Melb., says:—“l had an attack of
rheumatics, and was confined to bed
for days. The bone of my leg felt as
if it was trying to force its way out
of the heel of my foot. It was agonis-
ing. I was not able to get about, the
ankle was swollen, and the burning
and aching were terrible. I rubbed
Zam-Buk into the affected parts. I
felt relief almost straight away, and
after a week’s treatment with Zam-
Buk I could get about once more.”
MOTOR ACCIDENT. —Mrs. M.
Kermode, 52 Vine Street, Redfern, Sydney,
writes: —“My son Tom met with a motor-
car accident some time ago, breaking his
leg in two places. He was in Sydney Hos-
pital for a month, and after the plaster of
Paris had been removed I massaged the leg
with Zam-Buk in order to keep stiffness
away and to make the sinews supple again.
I continued this treatment and he made a
rapid recovery and felt no ill-effects what-
ever from his accident. IV e have also used
Zam-Buk for sprains, and have the greatest
faith in it.”
ZAM-BUK NEVER FAILS.—
Mrs. Considine, of 234 Bolsover Street,
Rockhampton, writes:—“l have used Zam-
Buk for many years. My husband, while
carrying a heavy load on board ship, slipped
and bruised his chin very badly. Zam-
Buk took out all the inflammation and
healed the place very quickly. My eldest
boy, Francis, knocked his foot on an iron
bar. Zam-Buk was promptly applied, and
before a pot had been used his foot was
quite well again. I have used Zam-Buk
for piles, with wonderful success. It
took the congestion and irritation away,
and in a few days all the distressing symp-
toms had completely disappeared.”
Miss E. Jacobs .
:
Mr, Tom Kermodc
m
Francis Considine.
REFUSE
INFERIOR
SUBSTITUTES.
■
tore's!
m:
m.
Zam-Buk is unequalled for cuts, bruises,
scalds, burns, running: sores, bad legs,
ulcers, pimples, blisters, children’s sores,
abscesses, ringworm, barber’s rash, scalp
diseases, sprains, scabs, insect stings, sore
heels, eczema, poisoned wounds, sores and
injured conditions of the skin generally.
Prices, 1/6 and 3/6 per pot, of all chemists
and stores. .
and then a new thought made him energetic.
, e left the bag in- the table dust, took his
key-nng from the coat pocket and advanced
to the camphorwood-box.
Thanks be to Providence,” said the Rev.
1 ennychook, examining the exterior of the
box as women examine a closed envelope to
learn the writer of the letter within, "the
box is untouched.” He looked it up and
down and on top and roundabout, and added
thankfully, “Praised be the Lord! It is in-
tact.”
And then he opened the box and his
thankfulness changed to rage and ingrati-
tude. Above the large Rible showed a cone
of new production—a cone of red earth just
about to enter the underside of the box lid.
Mr. Pennychook said, “Oh! Curse it!
There ! Curse it!”
Then he tore off the upper side of the still
soft pyramid, and a dozen army corps of
termites sprawled and writhed and quivered
in their horror of the light. Mr. Penny-
chook could not lift the Bible out of the box,
but he opened it and found covers and leaves
only a torn and irregular margin; the cir-
cumference of the new anthill being but little
smaller than the square of the Bible. And
the notes and traders’ orders and shin-
plasters had utterly disappeared. “They’ve
all the Word,” said Mr. Pennychook, “from
Cenesis to Deuteronomy, and there’s not one
note left. Well! Well! Curse it! There!
Curse it.”
“And life.” said Mr. Pennychook a week
later, preaching his favorite mission sermon,
“shows us that neither lasting benefit nor
happiness is to be found in this world.
Friendships, affections, possessions, they take
wings unto themselves, giving us the literal
proof and meaning of those splendid words:
‘Lav not up your treasure on earth where
moth and rust do corrupt, and white ants
break through and steal’ That is, I mean
moth and rust do corrupt, and thieves break
through and steal. Thieves, not white ants ”
Nobody laughed. They knew another col-
lection campaign could not be far away.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The Blister.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE hessian blind which hung limply
from the skillion verandah was slowly
lifted and a woman stepped into the
blaze of the mid-day sun. In one hand she
held high an empty kerosene-tin ; the other
grasped a thin strip of paling. The paling,
descending upon the hollow tin. called forth
a series of clanging discords which seemed to
gain added volume with each vigorous blow.
As the weird echoes died away amidst the
timbered recesses of the bush, a tall man,
with futile whiskers, who was madly chasing
a pig round and round a small yard at the
back of the outhouse, called a disgusted halt
to his activities. Leaning against a post
he mopped his face with a handkerchief
taken from around his neck. The pig, mar-
velling at the respite, scrambled drunkenly
into its sty, where it faced about and re-
garded its tormentor with anxious, cunning
eyes.
While man and beast exchanged hostile
glances the kerosene-tin at the house once
again crashed forth its call to dinner. The
tall man poked his face round the corner of
the shed.
“Coming,” he shouted. “Com-i-n-g. ...
Think I’m deaf?”
An apprehensive grunt at his back sent his
head round with a jerk. The pig, in an
effort to achieve the impossible, had wedged
its fatness in a gap of the log fence and was
struggling desperately for freedom. With
a shout of triumph the tall man descended to
the attack, seizing the animal by a hind leg
just as it was on the point of escape. Ignor-
ing an appalling outcry he thrust the pork
head-first into a bran-sack and made fast the
mouth.
“Got yer, yer brute!” he panted. “Now
you set there till I got time to fix yer. I’ll
teach yer.”
Immediately he released the bag the pig
ceased its outcry. There ensued the extraor-
dinary spectacle of a bran-sack propelling
itself from side to side of the narrow yard.
The tall man, however, ignored the phe-
nomenon. His gaze was directed at the t strip
of road that curled out of the bush aliead.
A rider had come suddenly into view.
“Mailman,” grunted the tall man. He
thrust a cold pipe between his teeth and,
climbing the yard-rail, made for the dog-leg
fence that showed above the riot of bracken
bordering the road. “Nuttin’ fer me. I’ll
bet there’s nuttin'. I never get nuttin’.”
As if in direct denial of this pessimistic
utterance the rider extended his hand as he
rode up. “ ’Day, Mister Gobble. Letter for
you.”
Mr. Gobble clutched it with a grimy fist.
“Nuttin’ in it any good, I’ll bet,” he mut-
tered. “It’ll be about the blister. I told yer
I wrote last muni.”
“So you did,” agreed the mailman. He
watched with friendly concern as the tall
man painstakingly spelled out the contents.
“These here mortgages ain’t any good. A
man never gets quit of them. They bust on
him before he knows where he is.”
Mr. Gobble stroked his beard with a
trembling hand. “They won’t renew,” he
announced thinly. “I gotter square up or
get out.”
“Go on !” said the mailman with deep con-
cern.
“And I damn well will get out, too,” said
Mr. Gobble passionately. “I was going, any-
how ; and now I will go. Me starving and
slaving ’ere! And the Guv’ment don’ care!
They don’ help or do nuttin’. Nobody does
nuttin’.”
“Hard on your missus, moving out like
this,” said the mailman. He lit bis pipe
and gathered up the reins. “Now then,
Carbine. Well, so long, George.”
“And what about me? Ain't it hard on
me?” called Mr. Gobble after the retreating
figure. “Me taking over the place witli a
blister on it like I done. I mighter known.
Well, I’ll show ’em. Me brother Joe wants
us over at his place. I won't stop here no
longer.”
lie walked slowly back to the house. On
his approach three scraggy fowls dodged
squawking in among the ferns. Mr. Gobble
aimed a k.ck at the hindmost, but without
any effect. Behind the hessian curtain the
flies hummed like bees. The heat was
stifling.
His wife greeted him apathetically as he
took his seat at table. By the open window
her mother, Mrs. Barnes, reclined in per-
spiring deshabille. Mrs. Barnes was fat
and as deaf as an adder. Her large eyes
fixed the tall man with a stupid stare.
“Where you been?” she wheezed. “If you
was my liusbing you’d come to your meals
reg’lar or else you’d get none.”
Mr. Gobble scowled over his rabbit stew.
“I was waiting fer a letter,” he said loudly.
“I can't ’ear you,” complained his mother-
in-law.
“I said I was” —began the tall man at the
top of his voice, but relapsed unexpectedly.
“Oli. hang her!” he mumbled. “What’s the
use? She don’ hear nuttin’.”
His wife looked at him anxiously. “What
letter? You mean about the mor’gage?”
“That’s it —the blister.” Mr. Gobble sud-
denly became voluble. “I’ll get out of this
place right now, that’s what I’ll do. You
’ear what I say? I’ll have no Jews coinin’
up here and pitchin’ me off. You get them
fowls of yours caught and their legs tied.
I was taking ther pig over to me brother
Joe’s place, anyhow. Might as well take
the ’ole darn lot of yer and be done with it.
Now y’ mind and get ready.”
“What’s that George said about a blister?”
inquired Mrs. Barnes shrilly. “Where did
you say?”
“Oh, tell ’er,” said Mr. Gobble irritably.
“He means the mor’gage on the farm,”
explained Mrs. Gobble into the raised ear
of her mother. "The farm.”
“I ’eard you. Which arm?” .said Mrs.
Barnes. “I ’ad a blister once where yer
father knocked out ’is pipe on me neck when
he was drunk. It ’urt somethink terrible.
Which arm. Em’ly?”
“She said farm —not arm,” roared the
tall man.
Mrs. Barnes smiled fatly. “You let it
alone, George. It’ll be all right when it
busts. And then rub a bit er lard on it.”
“ ’Struth !” exclaimed Mr. Gobble.
“What did you say?” asked the old lady
anxiously.
“Oh. nuttin’ nuttin.” bellowed the tall
man with frenzied sarcasm. “You get them
roosters of yours tied up and I’ll take yer
to Joe’s place right away. I’ll come back
termorrer with the waggon and fetch the
thinga.”
“Where's the hurry?” asked his wife tear-
fully.
“I’ll show ’em,” said Mr. Gobble. “You
get the old 'un ready and catch them fowls
Now, mind me.”
“Don’t prick it, George,” advised his
mother-in-law decidedly. “You let it bust.
They all do if you give ’em time.”
Incapable of reply, Mr. Gobble stumbled
out of the house and across to the lean-to
which served for stable and buggy-shed
Breathing heavily, he fed his horse and
adjusted the harness to its lean frame. Then
he pulled the jinker into the open and pro-
ceeded to grease the wheels.
On the other side of the house Mrs. Gobble
and her mother coaxed the three scraggy
fowls into captivity with a tin of scraps
The squawking of the victims as the large
perspiring hand of Mrs. Barnes encom-
passed their legs added to Mr, Gobble's
vexation, lie stood upright and shook his
fist at the uproar.
“Wisht they was dead, them things. Never
lay nor nuttin’.” He stopned at a sudden
thought, and his mouth opened stupidly
“Oh, ’ell ; —the pig !”
The tall man precipitated himself from
the rail of the pigyard almost on top of an
untidy heap of sacking that lay motionless
in the full glare of the sun. Then tearing
loose the mouth of the sack he drew forth
by the hind leg all that remained of his
pork. Ilis forgetfulness had had dire result.
The pig was dead of heat apoplexy.
In that second of anguish Mr. Gobble
nearly followed suit. Fighting for com-
posure he carried the corpse back to the
shed and heaved it on the floor of the jinker.
The horse was thrust rudely between the
shafts and driven to the front of the house.
At the shouting of the tall man Mrs. Gobble
showed a frightened face round the hessian
blind.
“Pig’s gorn and died on us!” said Mr.
Gobble violently. For a moment his rage
choked him. “Gorn and got a sunstroke and
pegged. Ain’t you never going to be ready’/'
The bewildered Mrs. Barnes was hoist
into the back of the jinker, where she settled
like a sack of flour. Clutched to her bosom
were the three scraggy fowls, now reduced
to a kind of despairing coma.
Scarcely waiting for his wife to seat her-
self. Mr. Gobble hit the horse with the
doubled reins and zig-zagged through the
sliprails to the road beyond. The jolting
of the vehicle as it crossed the culvert seemed
to loosen a cog in the wheels of Mrs.
Barnes’s memory, for she suddenly screwed
her head sideways and called a question to
the driver.
“How’s the blister, George?”
“Damn the blister!” mumbled Mr. Gobble.
“Speak up. I can’t ’ear you,” persisted
Mrs. Barnes anxiously.
“It’s bust!” yelled the tall man in a fury.
“There now: I knew 7 it would.” said Mrs.
Barnes complacently. She clasped the limp
fowds still tighter to her motherly bosom and
blinked stupidly at the sunshine.
“They all bust, George, if you let ’em
alone. What did you say?”
“Oh, nuttin'... .nuttin'," shouted the tall
man.
Under the seat the dead pig bounced and
bounded like a ball of rubber.
BERNARD CRONIN.


I
a ’ ; mw ■
■ i
It -I
a
. I m
\\
■
WESTIN CHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN D RIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Queensland Agents- HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 FeatherBton Street, Wellington
Victorian Office-99 Queen Stiebt, Melbourne.
Horlick’s Malted Milk contains
all requisite forms of nourish-
ment. That is what makes
Horlick’s so rich so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hor-
lick’s, there is a great treat ia
store for you.
HORUCK'S
MALTED MILK
*©T*
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
TAN KS
When we speak of a tank we picture a huge
cumbersome box of machinery bristling with
guns. Yet Carter’* Littl*
Liver Pills, one of the
smallest and most success-
ful pill ;n the world,
can be compared to
tanks in action, for
they surely and
gently touch the
Liver, curing
Bilious Headache,'
Constipation, etc.,
just as tanks sur-
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
mount obstacles and clear trenches of the
enemy. Iry them to-day, your chemist has
them. Lrood for man, woman and child.
Small Pill— Small Dose- Small Pries.
d
ď
&
i
§
WRIGLEYS
6 big bars in each packet for 3d.
The best buy in lasting refresh*
ment and benefit you can possibly
• find. '
WRIGLEYS’ is sealed tight -
kept right. You get it always
fresh, full flavoured, dean.
The Flavour Lasts
Made by
WRIGLEY’S (Australasia) LTD.
Rosebery, Sydney, N.S.W.
s&r<
m
:
M
S 3
i
*
I
I
i
1
1
I
s
I
I
I
m
I
FOR
&
£
I
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wjs Supply—
JARBAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
684 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W,
Rrnnehes in all parts of the wo’’' 1 .
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 14/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 4/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all Particulars posted on application
to The Manages.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS.—When you hav& finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Dep6t, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
REMINGTON UMC
Auto-loading
RIFLE.
A SPLENDID RABBIT RIFLE.
d
SHORT
2 2
SHORT
MODEL 24A, .22 Calibre, Solid Breech, Hammerless. Easily taken apart
and assembled, Chambered to fire the Ordinary Rim-fire .22 Cartridge.
MAGAZINE HOLDS 11 CARTRIDGES, all of which can be fired as
quickly as trigger can be pulled, without lowering Rifle from the shoulder.
Fitted with Safety Lock. Full ‘directions attached to each rifle.
Weight, 4-llb. PRICE £6 net. Postage or Carriage extra.
Obtainable Retail from the following Sydney Firms:
MARCUS CLARK, LTD. J. P. KNIGHT.
COWLES & DUNN. P. LASSETTER & CO., LTD.
GRACE BROTHERS, LTD. NOCK & KIRBY, LTD.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD. MICK SIMMONS, LTD.
Also from Country Storekeepers.
WHOLESALE ONLY from following Sydney Firms:
ALDERSON’S, LTD. J. P. KNIGHT.'
JOHN BROOMFIELD, LTD. NOYES BROTHERS, LTD.
PAUL & GRAY, LTD.
Australian Representative for the Manufacturers:—
D. D. BRYANT, Box 686 G.P.0., Melbourne.
GENERAL CATALOGUE MAILED FREE ON REQUEST.


MAN GROVST
LEATHER
LTI
MANGROVITE LEATHER BELTING
ELIMINATES WORRY
so far as transmission, that most important
factor of power production, is concerned. It
has a fine flexible strength that endows it with
super-gripping power and enables it to stand
up to the most strenuous test of hard usage.
Mangrovite Belting' Ltd.
(Charles Ludowici, Managing Director),
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
W. Australia: Gibbs, Bright &Co., Fremantle
S th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
Victoria and Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co.,
Melbourne.
"* L £ Dli
d
QUALITY AN ACTUAL FACT.
It’s the solid, substantial, visible thing of which performance
is born. It is quality that has made
“AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE” BRIGHT SHAFTING
preferred by firms who demand the best, and comparisons have
proved that while prices are lower, quality is higher than in other
shaftings. All sizes up to 2in. ; also 2£in. 2Jsin., 3in,, 3£in.,
4in., 6in. diameter, in 20ft. length's.
For prices and particulars write to Desk “A.”
The Eagle CSL Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane..
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
Paul & Gray Ltd., Newcastle.
s£f3MmgsalfiOfiii
Chemicals?
We always have large stocks on hand and our
prices are absolutely the lowest. Our stocks
include:—
Soda-Ash,, Caustic Soda, Chloride of
Calcium, Sulphide of Sodium, Chloride
of Ammonium, Naphthaline, Carbolic
Acid (98% pale straw), Bichromate
Soda and Potash, French Chalk, Dex-
trine, Aniline Dyes, Hematine and
Fustic Extracts. Earge quantities 0 t
Whale, Cod and Herring Oil always on
hand.
Write for prices and particulars NOW.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York St Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8*66 (6 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
30 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY' IN RUNNING —which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.’’ Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving- the same service as when first installed..
We study your requirements arid design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a giveii result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
Al!
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD. , Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney
a.t Melbourne, Brisbane,
:h; and Auckland, N.Z.
d
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 234 inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £25.
Correspondence invited.
D. ? W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers anti
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fiteroy, MELBOURNE.
TUDOR ACCUMULATORS
for All Purposes.
THE PIONEER. PLANTE PLATE.
THE TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.
P.O. BOX 2550.
TELEPHONE: CITY 8931.
(Australasian Office)-
Culwulla Chambers,
CASTLEREAGH STREET SYDNEY,
$
BB
d
We manufacture what is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer,, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Hines listed.
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from 12in. to Bin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include:—
•
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRACT WORK —Send Specifications
ALDERDIGE LTD., Warrnambool
DELGO-LIGHT
A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
&
s
Runs on
Kerosene
-
Safe.
Reliable
One Gallon of Kerosene
will light 32 Lamps for 4% hours.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM SOLE AGENTS—
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD.,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
.
Ordinary Tank-cooled, with Type A Waggon
with hand-pull or shafts.
Portable Lister Engines
HERE you have England’s greatest farm engine in portable form.
The Lister has Magneto Ignition, Throttling Governor, Dust-proof
Gears, Pump feed for fuel and Automatic Lubrication throughout.
Every feature is carried out with the solidity and honesty of purpose
which you always find in the highest class British Engineering work.
The Lister is mechanically perfect, and built for longer
life than you want. AH sizes, Petrol or Kerosene, 2,3,
5,7, 9 B.H.P. Write for Booklet and prices.
■ 1
mm
GEDYE & CO.
J
9-13 Young Street. SYDNEY.
Screen Tank-cooled, -with Type
Waggoa
Concentration Testing Plant Available for the Public.
ACTUAL TRIAL UNDER WORKING CONDITIONS IS MORE CONVINCING THAN
ANY NUMBER OF STATEMENTS. THE RESULTS OBTAINED ON THE
CURVILINEAR CONCENTRATOR
are so far above previous good practise that we have decided to demonstrate on clients’ own ores.
Parcels received will be sampled, crushed, concentrated and a complete and accurate report
furnished. A small fee to cover expenses will be made. Expensive mistakes will thus be
avoided. Inquiries solicited for every kind of mining and crushing plant, screens and accessories.
d
Mining
Engineers,
' -
