

t
Machinery Merchants,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining
—FOB—
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available
WE ADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY
TERMS $
=ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION.
NSWMONT de PIETE
fe' s"* I C9V LIMITED.
v 74 Castlereagh St. 74Sydney.
CAPITAL £200,000 ‘Fhor\e City 5325
at- 29 King St..Newcastle. N-S-W- 2\hM SwahstohSt
40 Adelaide St.Bnsbane.Q. 197 A Castlereagh 5tJ59 George St. West, Sydney.
Joseph Irt/ Hill,
General Manager.
r
rv
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
For unfavorable climatic and working
conditions we recommend
CHROMOL
(Chrome Tan Feather),
The Super Driving Belt.
It gives longer and more efficient service.
J.C.LudowiciS Son Ltd.
Tanners & Feather Belting Makers,
Pioneer Works,
117 York Street, Sydney
u
m
r (fr
n
Os>.
§mm
m
a
cz>
UZanvl
neappie
an
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
m
Junket,
HANSEN’S
s
INDIGESTION
dyspepsia
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
w
gsm
the most durable Roll Roofing.
Durability—the fix;st essential for a roof covering
-—is absolutely assured by using Malthoid.
Actual samples and illustrated booklet post free.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis
House, Sydney.
A new and revised edition of -the
«Referee ” is now available,
and will be sent post free on
application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY .
eA
W» nV *
V
the recognised standard
of quality throughout
the Commonwealth
NI9 TJTfl'f
(The Square Bottle with
the Heart-shaped Label.)
Agents—OßME, KEIGWIN OSu Co., Ltd., SYDNEY
r'iVv- '% r
Y after day we are solving pumping problems for irrigation,
mining, water supply and a host of other services calling
for the most dependable equipment. This experience and
our advice is at your service. Ask particulars of Triplex, Pyramid
and Centrifugal pumps in any size for any purpose.
Get catalogue from our nearest address.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
(MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD., 499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne; and Darling Building, Adelaide.
ng Agents * CHAS, E
. BERNAYS, Fitzroy Buildings, 125 Adelaide St.,
ane; J. R. W.
.
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay.
OPAIiOID
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2130.
Thursday, December 9, 1920.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1920 is dow ready, and will be posted
free to any address on application.
DYMOCIv’S BOOR ARCADE. LTD.. 428
George Stfeet. Sydney. Tele. 6431.—Advt.
m
m
fa etWH liand
hsd
Watermans
ilcLeal
Fountain Pen
And every hand suited with a nib that means lifelong comfort
in writing. All over the world Waterman’s Ideals are sold ;
all over the world their praises are sung. There’s not
another pen like it and it is the ultimate choice of every
particular writer. Don’t delay, get a Waterman’s Ideal
to-day, and learn the pleasure of writing with a perfect pen.
Three Types : “ Self-Filling,” Of Stationers and Jewellers
“Safety,” and “Regular.” everywhere.
L. G. SLOAN, Ltd., dontcr , London. England.
Australia : Harold D. Dixon, 105, Clarence Street. Sydney,
' ■■■';
■) /\ Xf. KK„n \i) ll ' l T^^//
%
AC
a
•Jrf
r
ok
aI 1
The man who insists that his
shirts bear the Thistle Brand
gets everything in shirt quality.
No shirt making can surpass
Thistle —no shirts are better
fitting—none are drafted and
cut more accurately nor
made and finished more ex-
pertly. No shirts offer more
in fabric, pattern, color and
style than Thistle Shirts.
Procurable at all leading
clothing departments where
Thistle Pyjamas are also to
be found.
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS LTD.
Makers y Brisbane and Sydney
AS 59
° n , ea |
\sb‘|P
re
r
%
5*
-
If CA-C- to:
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
0
i
V
BRAND
fh
BRAND
*^QjEEfEII
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA—CoIIins House, Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES—SB Pitt Street, Sydney - - - Phone City 2677
QUEENSLAND— Campbell’s Buildings, Creek Street, Brisbane Phone 2382
sdfh
|pc-A-ciQZ^'
0
fd
KILL THE TYPHOID FLY.
“MUSTDIE”
THE NON-POISONOUS POW-
DER, Is Infallible in Destroying
all Insect Pests, but is Abso-
lutely Harmless to Canaries,
Dogs, Poultry; in fact, all
Animals and Man.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
WHgg
HOUSE
FLIES
ARE
POTENT
CARRIERS
DISEASE.
r
mmm
The Red Page
The Rising Tide of Colored Brother
Nearly 30 years ago the pundits were
electrified" by the late Professor Pearson’s
tocsin of “The Yellow Peril.” The politi-
cians and the daily press mostly pooh-poohed,
as a matter of course, while “Constant
Reader” and “The Man in the Street” merely
lifted their eyebrows and, like cattle in a
luscious meadow, lowered their heads and
went on with their feeding. Pearson’s pro-
phetic warning disturbed the placidity of
the White World at large—the great un-
thinking, amorphous, sheep-like public of
Australia and elsewhere—about as much as
the dropping of a threepenny-bit would dis-
turb the waters of Burrinjuck or Assouan.
Pearson was a Fellow of Oriel College, and
sometime Minister of Education in Victoria,
before he wrote his famous book on “National
Life and Charactei;” in which, Cassandra-
like, he stated the probability that our
science and our civilisation are only bringing
us nearer to the day when the lower races
will predominate in the world ; and since Pear-
son’s warning was written the white man,
with his ultra-democracies, his fantastic
utopias of peace, his blithering about
Brotherhood, his stop-work lunacy and his
chronic strikes, appears to be doing his level
best to hasten the time when he will be com-
pelled to give place to the faster-breeding - ,
simpler-living “colored brother” of Asia and
Africa. Some Asiatic historian may yet
write the Iliad of a lonely outpost of Empire
whose idolon was One Big Union which
crumpled to bits when the Big Battalions
came knocking at the gates.
In Putnam Weale’s “Conflict of Color”
(1910) the warning was repeated, with a
more searching analysis and with later figures
to work upon. “Providence,” said Weale,
“is on the side of the big battalions It
is a most disconcerting fact that the White
World is far weaker (numerically) than the
Colored World—not only weaker in numbers
but far more divided against itself.”. At the
time Weale published his book, the popula-
tion of .Europe was estimated at 454 millions,
as against 947 millions of colored races in
Asia and 140 millions of blacks in Africa.
Now comes Lofhrop Stoddard, graduate of
Harvard,.U.S.A., with his contribution, The
Rising Tide of Color (Scribner’s, New York,
1920). Stoddard believes that the Conflict
of Color-n—the world-wide struggle between
the primary races of mankind—will be ' the
fundamental problem of the 20th centurv,
affecting .especially the United States, South
Africa and Australasia. Four-tenths only of
the people of the globe can be considered pre-
dominately white in blood, the rest being
yellow, brown and black. Racially con-
trasted, the area of the world’s lands
occupied by the whites is 22 million square
miles, as against 31 millions for the colored
races. Stoddard estimates that the total
number of human beings alive to-day is 1700
millions. Of these 550 millions are white
and 1150 millions colored. The whites tend
to double in 80 years, yellows and browns in
60 years, and blacks in 40 years, and none of
the colored races show's perceptible signs of
declining birth-rate, all tending to breed up to
the limits of available subsistence.
Such checks as now limit the increase of colored
populations are wholly external, like famine, disease
and tribal warfare. But by a curious irony of fate,
the white man has long- been busy removing these
checks to colored multiplication. The greater part
of the colored world is to-day under white political
control. Wherever the white man goes he attempts
to impose the bases of his ordered civilisation. He
puts down tribal war, he wages truceless combat
against epidemic disease, and he so improves com-
munications that augmented and better-distributed
food-supplies minimise the' blight of famine. In
response to these life-saving activities the enormous
death-rate which in the past has kept the colored
races from excessive multiplication is falling to
proportions comparable with the death-rate of
white countries. But to lower the colored world’s
prodigious birth-rate is quite another matter. The
consequence is a portentous increase of population
in nearly every portion of the colored world now
-under white political sway.
When the Great War came, the colored
world suddenly saw the white peoples, which
in racial matters had hitherto maintained
something of a united front, locked in an
internecine death-grapple of unparalleled
ferocity. The white world was tearing itself
to pieces. White solidarity was riven and
shattered. And fear of white power and re-
spect for white civilisation together dropped
away like garments outworn. Through the
bazaars of Asia ran the sibilant whisper:
“The East will see the West to bed!” Even
now', with the war tw - o years past, so ab-
sorbed is the white world with its domestic
dissensions that it pays scanty heed to racial
problems whose importance. for the future
of mankind far transcends the questions
which engross its attention to-day.
Stoddard sums up the situation:—
We whites will have to abandon our tacit assump-
tion of permanent domination oyer Asia, while
Asiatics will have to forego their dreams of migra-
tion to white lands Unless some such understand-
ing is arrived at, the world will drift into a
gigantic race-war—and genuine race-war means war
to the knife. Such a hideous catastrophe should be
abhorrent to both -sides. Nevertheless, Asia should
be given clearly to understand that we cannot permit
either migration to white lands or penetration of
the non-Asiatic tropics, and that for these matters
we prefer to fight to a finish rather than yield to a
finish—because our “finish” is precisely what surren-
der on these points would mean.
Meanwhile, we stagger along with the
White’s Man’s burden, forgetful that the
struggle between East and West goes back
to the Persian Wars, and that the conflict
between Europe and Asia has sprawled over
many centuries. The inscrutable Asiatic
has been Europe’s schoolmaster in divers
and the work of peaceful penetration
by Ram Chunder. Das may yet be completed
by some Genghis Khan or Tamerlane. In
Australia, apart from Britain and Britain’s
navy, our national existence would be as
evanescent as a soap-bubble; and gabble
about World Brotherhood in international
affairs is as futile as attempting to stop an
earthquake with an argument.
“The Chief”
The Chief of Staff drew down the top
of his desk and closed it with a soft click.
It was his last night. To-morrow another,
would open the desk, sit in his chair and
direct the movements of the staff. Cynic as
he was and tired as he confessed himself to
be, this final closing of a long and interest-
ing chapter of his life as a newspaper man
brought with it a touch of sadness and
regret. He was going to less strenuous
work, to better-paid labors, and to a place
in the scheme of things which promised more
leisure and a degree of home life that had
been for nearly 20 years unattainable. Yet
that last, tiny click of the desk-lock made
his heart jump, and he sat silent in his
chair as one by one shadowy figures swept
swiftly through his room and the war years
ran their gamut of tragedy and comedy.
Soldiers trooped in with grievances, blun-
ders and departmental cruelties which they
felt sure the paper would expose for justice
sake. Some of them were drunk—pot many,
but some—and all were anxious, worried
and disturbed. He listened tb their stories,
promised consideration and sent them away
soothed and a little happier, Behind them
came fathers and mothers with the troubles
of erring sons to be ventilated. Then came
crowds of inventors of war-devices —weird
men with plans, sketches, formulae and mys-
terious models. A difficult lot to manage if
one’s whole day was not to be given to them.
Somehow, they, too, were disposed of. Next
came a curious, furtive-eyed assortment of
men and women seeking the suppression of
their names from reports of divorce suits,
robbery cases and assault charges. Firmly
and tactfully they had to be sent about their
business, bribes refused and the honest jus-
tice of the paper vindicated without loss of
temper. After these illustrations of futile
endeavor came, one by one, some of his ovvn
colleagues, men of the staff, with personal
troubles seeking the advice of “the chief”
as a brother man and not as the executive
officer of a great organ. Bach told his story
and each was helped to the measure of the
experience of one who tried to see life as a
whole and to remember how easy it is to
censure frail humanity. If the best work
was to be done by these men, he reasoned,
they must see in their chief a man who
could sympathise as well as a man who could
discipline and reprove the careless when cul-
pable ahd avoidable blunders happened. And
they, too, left him with perhaps a somewhat
lighter heart and a lighter step than they
h;ad when they entered the little room.
Finally-—after a procession of tuft-
hunters, artists, musicians, politicians, tra-
vellers, clergymen, missionaries, produce
agents, revivalists, teetotallers, lecturers,
etc., all seeking paragraphs and notices
designed to advance their persons and
causes in the eyes of the paper’s readers—
there shuffled in spine of the cranks who
had pestered him during the years, of his
reign. As they lifted pleading eyes and pre-
sented their leaflets and their tracts once
more for his perusal, he smiled grimly. As
the last of the amazing band finished his
tale, received the formula of promised con-
sideration or reference to that mysterious
“Editor” whose privacy he guarded, he mut-
tered to himself, “Well, poor chaps, they
may be happier than most of us, after all.
They do at least sincerely believe in some-
thing and have the devotion of whole-hearted
faith.”
And now the end had come. Well, it had
;been a great experience to have exercised
the power of a great paper in relation to
very large areas of human society. No one
could have had that experience without be l
coming a better man, a better journalist and
a better citizen of Australia. With this
comforting thought the Chief of the Report-
ing Staff donned hat and coat and left his
post as the clock chimed 11.
L. V. B.
" Saki"
“Saki” was the pen-name of H. H. Munro,
who in novels and prose sketches dealt with
the world of Wilde’s comedies with a bril-
liancy of verbal elfect equal to Wilde’s own.
Looking over “Said’s” productions, one
might even say that the wit is more ingeni-
ous than Wilde’s, for it is woven cleverly
into the pattern of the story and rarely
has the appearance of an incongruous irrele-
vancy designed to impart life to a dying
conversation. Take a passage from a Wilde
comedy and compare it with an extract from
the delightful “Reginald,” and note that
Wilde’s feverish flash of epigram is fre-
quently superfluous, whereas every, quip
from Munro is character-revealing.' His
humor is not discounted by touches of
cruelty, because he carries off everything
with a high spirit and has a glib tongue
to embroider an adventure. One need only
mention one episode to disclose his quality.
It is the tale of the Duchess who, having
requested on her bedroom door to be called
at 7.30 a.m., is, through a simple forgery,
made to declare her intention to end her
mis-spent life at the hour named. The
denouement is. the wildest farce. The ser-
vants burst into_ her room, and, as the
author declares, “search her for bullets, as
if she were an historic battlefield.”
“Reginald” is Munro’s brightest achieve-
ment, but he compiled another volume, “The
Chronicles of Clovis,” that shows the same
impetuous raillery and invention. “Tober-
mory.” the yarn of the cat that was taught
to talk and made an appalling debut by
relating a host’s private views of his guests
at a party, is one diverting thing in the
book. There is another. “Sredni Vashtar,”
that tells in simple prose a tale of horror
that Poe or Maupassant-might have written.
The concluding calamity demonstrates an
amazing insight into the mind of a child
overwrought by the thoughtless discipline
of elders. His chief novel, “The Unbearable
Bassington,” is a return to the manner of
“Reginald,” but the art of sparkling expres-
sion grows more wicked and searching, and
the characters move in an atmosphere sur-
(Continued on page 25.)


Jk.
ace
CX32. —Serviette Rings,
Silver-plated—
Case containing two Rings, plain
designs, 11/6, 13/6, 15/6
Case containing two Sterling Sil-
ver Rings, 22/6, 25/-,
32/6, 40/-
CXIO6. —Jam Dish, frame
of silver plated on nickel sil-
ver, fitted with clear, crystal
glass dish .... 25/-
QB3. —Black Moire
Handbag, Oxidised
medallion top, mirror inset
an<J silk purse,
88/6, 95/6
8X029. Eonia
Eau-de-Cologne,
l litre ... 9/- bot.
i litre ... 16/6 bot.
1 litre ... 30/- bot.
m
expan
ding.
CD:
ST «ae».
Z2l. —Lady’s Solid Gold Keyless Expanding
Bracelet Watch, J-plate, Compensation Balance,
fully jewelled, splendid timekeeper £l2
Higher grades of movement .. £lB, £22/10/«, £25
CXl37.—Biscuit
Barrel, English
Oak, Silver-plated' on
Nickel Silver mounts,
BXo27.—Royal Eau-de
Cologne, Jug-shape Cut-Glass
Decanter—l2oz 27/-
8X025. —Royal Eau-
de-Cologne, Jug-shape
Decanter—6oz. ... 11/6
CX39. Child’s
Mug, Silver-plated,
engraved, inside
Gold-finished, 17/6
'Others, 10/6, 12/6,
13/6, 15/-
CXI3O. Three-piece Tea Set, heavily Silver-plated on Britannia Metal
BXoloo.—Sterling Silver Toilet 'Set,
Satin- and Velvet-lined Case, 2 Hair Brushes,
Hat and Cloth Brushes, Mirror, Comb,
£l2/12/-
To materially lessen the burden of daily
expense for our customers—this has
been our policy from the beginning and
steadfastly maintained through nearly
100 years of successful trading. This
is exemplified in the Christmas Gifts
listed on this page, and they’re the very
goods this festive season is demanding—
new, appropriate, dainty wares brought
forward for this happy period
demonstrating Anthony Horderns’ ability
to offer high-standard quality goods at
prices that substantially reduce your
expenditure.
Mail orders entrusted to us are executed
efficiently, expeditiously and satisfac-
torily.
Send for Christmas Catalogues—the
following are ready:—
POPULAR PRESENTS AND TOYS.
BOOKS FOR CHRISTMAS.
GROCERY & CHRISTMAS CHEER.
We pay carriage on Electro-plate and
Jewellery to any part of N.S.W., and to
nearest port on Interstate and Island
orders.
BXo44—Luce’s Eau-
tle-Cologne, Watch
Shape—ljoz. Bottle,
2/-
BXOII7. Manicure
Sets in Cases, Ebony
Fittings—
-7 pieces 21/-
8 pieces . .. 27/6
9 pieces 35/-
8X042. —Luce’s
Eau-de-Cologne,
4oz. bottle .. 4/6
CXlo6.—Butter Dish, Sil-
ver-plated on Nickel Silver,
fitted with clear crystal glass,
~ 30/-
087. —Black Leather
Handbag, fitted with
vanity mirror .. .... 3/6
CX2 746.—A Pretty Mug for
Children, handsomely-silver-plated,
gilt inside 12/6
BXolo3.—Sterling Silver-mounted Hair Brush and
Comb, in Satin-lined Case 75/-
'
m
m
Ql l.—Black Morocco Handbag,
leather-lined, fitted small purse, mirror,
perfume and smelling-salts bottles,
32/6. 47/6 each.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limiied.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.
Z 2 Gold Wristlet Watch, fully
jewelled, fitted 9ct. Britannia Expanding Brace-
let, £6/15/-, £7/10/-, £B/8, £lO/10/-


mmm.
m
US®
JELBARTS Portable Suction GAS PLANT
FOR FARMERS and PASTORALISTS.
FOR FARM WORK.
Do you know what a Jelbart Portable Suction Gas Plant can do?
Do you realist that the Jelbart will run, week in, week out, at a
cost of a few shillings for lubricating oil? Fuel oil is unnecessary.
The Jelbart operates continuously on ordinary firewood or waste
ends. To instal one is not 'to save a few shillings in the weekly
fuel bill, but to secure a plant that does away with the fuel bill alto-
gether. If you have ever used an oil-engine you will appreciate
the extent of the saving to be effected. The Jelbart requires least
attention, is simplest to understand, and the most reliable as well
as the most economical plant on the market. Dry weather is con-
stantly experienced—the Jelbart can do your pumping at next to no
cost. It is the best power for chaff-cutting, sheep-shearing and all
stationary work; for wood-sawing the" Jelbart is perfectly governed
—adapts itself to change of loads.
OBTAINABLE IN SIZES GENERATING
FROM 6 B.H.P. TO 30 B.H.P.
Write to-day for illustrated prospectus.
FOR IRRIGATING.
m
m
<< r-tSßSr.*s%,'.
' ..*— "1
m
' ’ •
SClISsi'U-''
««-,
WSWW''*
JELBARTS Suction Gas Plants
FOR WORKSHOPS and FACTORIES
FOR WORKSHOPS AND MILLS.
Jelbart Stationary Suction Gas plants are of the same general con-
struction as the portable models. Every workshop or factory
requiring power should possess one. They reduce the fuel bill-
oil fuel is out of the question where the Jelbart is concerned. Only
wood is needed—a ton of wood a week is ample for operating a
30-h.p. plant. There is no charcoal account. The construction of
the plant eliminates tarring. The Jelbart is the simplest Suction-
Gas Plant to operate. Specially recommended for sawmills, where
the waste from the saw and plane can be utilised as fuel, thereby
eliminating fuel cost entirely. Equally appropriate for driving
electric-lighting, refrigerating, pumping or any other machinery.
Jelbart Stationary Suction Gas Plants are obtainable in sizes gener-
ating from 6 b.h.p. to 150 b.h.p. Easily converted into portable
models if desired. As a business man you are requested to inquire
carefully into the comparative costs of running a Jelbart as against
any known make of oil-engine. The result of your investigations
will conclusively prove the economy of the Jelbart. May w r e mail
you fuller particulars of these gas-engines, together with testi-
monials from actual users?
FOR FACTORIES AND ELECTRIC-LIGHTING
PLANTS.
JELBARTS PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
Head Office: Ballarat, Victoria. Engineers, Sydney Office: Challis House, Sydney.
Makers also of Crude-Oil Engines, Crude-Oil Tractors, Kerosene Engines, Crude-Oil Road Rollers, etc.


PINKETTES
FOR BILIOUSNESS
When your tongue is coated
all over with a whitish-yellow
color and your breath is bad,
if you have constipation and
headaches, the chances are
you are bilious. Your liver
needs attention.
Strong purgatives which pro-
duce a re-action only aggravate
the trouble. Gentle assistance
is what nature needs. Pink-
ettes, the little pink laxative
pills, meet the requirements
admirably.
1 /3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
GOLFERS
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST -NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Box 911 G.P.0., Melbourne.
THE GREATEST
MARVEL OF
THE AGE.
h
37/6
57/6
fdh
Hand Embroiderer
Sold by DAVID JONES, DTD.
FABJIER & CO., LTD.
ANTHONY HORDERN &
SONS, LTD.
GRACE BROS., LTD.
HORDERN BROS.
BADE & WELCH.
See daily demonstrations at
W. T. AVATERS & ,CO., LTD.
Free instruction given.
CELEBRATED
03
%
%
|The Rapid Cure for Corns.
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young' —hard or soft, and
that remedy is A’CORN SILK, which
removes the worst corn in a few days, and the
sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure—it kills them. It is a painless cure- —
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—
Duerdin& Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
K. W. Bradley, Fltzroy Buildings, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Aberdeen House,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
L. Susman &Co., Merchants, Hobart.
R. H. Maxwell & Co., 18 Howard Stree
Perth, W. A. +
S 3
Xll4
A Xmas Gift
She's Sure to Like.
Xll4. —This dainty Handbag is one which every
lady appreciate. It is made of Black Corded
Silk, smartly trimmed with Brocade, and has a
White Shell Mount.
PRICE 32/6
We pay .postage. Send for our catalogue of gift suggestions
and travelling goods.
The American Bag Stores Ltd.,
Corner King and Pitt Streets; Strand Corner, Pitt
Street; Sydney Arcade, George Street! 117 Liverpool
Street, Sydney; and 291 King Street, Newtown.
mwjm
fd
hfd
STANDARD
SAFETY
and
SELF-FILLING
PATTERNS
peC®* 1 *
V>ef
On*
,titva*
s)*y
Our SELF-FILLING PEN is
fifost Acceptable
Gift for Cfirisimas
SWAM EtS!
SOLD EVERYWHERE
h
There’s a lot of solid comfort
In a
GBD
I find
When I’m kind of out of humor
Or troubled in my mind.
GBD
the perfect pipe.
Many Popular Shapes.
Sold Everywhere.
c
I’
Hi
■
SIsJJ
GBD
©
fdh
fd
DENYER BROS.,
Ruptured Persons—
On holiday especially you want the utmost of free-
dom in mind and movement. If rupture worries
you and restricts your energies obtain a
Denyer Elastic Truss
and you will feel safe and confident. This Special
Safeguard allows the utmost freedom of action under
all conditions, supports the ruptured part effec-
tively, and is all the time so comfortable that your
trouble is forgotten.
SINGLE, 30/-; DOUBLE, 40/-
Our free Truss Pamphlet will tell you more about
Denver’s Elastic Truss—Send for a copy to-day.
Truss Specialists,
281 George Street, Sydney.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beauty Song.
Dearest', Beauty bides to greet us, dear to
me as you are dear;
All the singing winds of Twilight chant the
waking of the year;
All the waves like silvern wedges drive
against the quiet sand
Crying witli a wistful cadence o’er the level
leagues of land.
Lone lights on the outer skyline glimmer
down the lifting swells.
Chiming on the questing vision like a peal
of yellow bells;
Here is music for your keeping, which a
singing heart can glean
From the dawnlight, and the starbreak, and
the day that burns between.
Clear from out the lonely places we have
heard the wonder-call
Ringing o’er the voice of Passion lusting in
her garish hall;
Beckoning between the headlands lolls a sea-
wind white and sweet.
While the world is slipping backward ’neath
the pacing of our feet.
All the tinsel of the townway lies behind us
far at heel;
Prone, the haunted plains of Ocean lie
before like polished steel;
Girl, the stalwart hearts within us hear the
song of broader things,
When the white bow of our being glows
across the gleaming strings!
Lonely on the outer circle, we have found
the richer joys.
Far from Love, where men have throned
her, petulant among her toys.
Ours the full, maturer blessing: ours the
love of loving Truth;
Youth may strike the keys at random and
the discord prove his Youth!
Fugitive from flare and falsehood where
Desire impatient stands,
Plucking at the bars of Reason with her hot
and narrow hands;
Merged into the wide creation, so our love
with truth is fraught,
Flowing in and cooling Passion, glowing in
and cleansing Thought.
Girl, the mystery is proven; as within the
primal hush,
Ere the lash of Lust and Passion waked the
shame that brought the blush ;.
Stands the naked Truth for aeons, every
law and creed above,
Only through the love of Beauty may we
beautify our love.
Fretful of the narrow radius where the
huddled houses lie,
Beauty casts lief bonds about her, striding
to the open sky.
Fearful of the»eoils of Falsehood, held aloof
by custom’s gate,
Love, the guest, may leave too early—or, too
timid, knock too late.
..VICTORIA.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
The Secret Place.
I have a chamber barred,
Full of strange things,
That ever my soul would guard
For the soul that sings.
The shames that I thought are there,
Crimes that I dare not own,
Sins that I needs must bear
In the dark alone.
I have been Nero and God,
I have been Satan and Death ;
And the red things done at my nod
.Would poison my breath.
I dare not speak of them,
I dare not yield the key;
The juice of the hemlock stem
Were milk to me! •
But I keep them close and barred.
The evil things,
That ever mv soul would guard
For the soul that sings.
I have locked them out of my mind;
And I go forth white,
With a heart clean and kind
To look on the light.
But I will return again
Full of the world’s spleen,
To open the door of pain
When my heart is mean.
I will rejoice in my shame,
Even as Nero and God ;
But these things under my name
Shall not go abroad.
For this is my separate hell.
Let it be forever apart—
Oh. the world’s dew falls well
On the sweet of my heart!
N.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Reincarnate.
I am a woman and you pass me by;
I was a stai* once, blazing- in the sky,
And you a poet, but you looked so iong
I came to earth at last to make a song.
I am a woman, thus does birth condemn;
I was a flower once, upon a stem
Of silver, and you stooped to my eclipse;
T of jojr upon vour hungering lit>s!
I am a woman and you pass me by;
I was a streamlet once, and loved to lie
Beneath your tired feet, to kiss and lave
Their weariness away, like any slave.
I am a woman. Ah, the barren hour!
But once I was a star! And once a flower!
Look in my eyes and you may find a gleam
To move you with remembrance of a stream!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


4?
JS3SS^
£=§s
fa
rv
'£t4i
S
-V
4
%a
,o
m
?4i
v//
-O'
m
w
<v
O'
r~\
y
mm
m
a
e
M
WA
X
«o
'A
VA
////
w
S*}»
<%-
4
«
y /Z '■?
is/;///,/.
s'///. •# ‘,
/%
m
NlO
Y/fS'WM't
P~ <9
/ w
&
Am
%2/M
.*L>s»
P'Vsr
iM«
li
&
%
'Wmm
§
in
,jxs
>' v
*M
ft V
\\
i 4 /
m Vx.
a
/
m
m
Mmf
t+*
~r
§
W"
’OS*
!
W' 1 \
Sh tii
-j
SIM'
rT.
■fh
ro
y\
m.
" M*.
d
l
o<A
HvW
»
%x
n-
*
m
*n
t
m
y
‘•v
*V
vvu\
The Sunraysed Never Sets
on the British Empire.
THERE was a time when Sunraysed products used to shine
only into Australian homes. Now they brighten the
whole world. The Sunraysed plums will be more sought
after than the threepence in this year’s Christmas Pudding.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Yol. 41. —No. 2130.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1920.
Price 9d.
SAIREY GAMP FINANCE.
STOREY GAMP: “Wot I always says is, don’t arsk me to take none, but set the bottle on the mantelpiece, so that I
can put me lips to it when I feel so dispoged.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 16s. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate p.ny
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. V/hen MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail , from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotcli, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.i;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.j “The British-Australasian,” 51 High,
Ilolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1/1/1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; The International Bookshop, Has-
tings and Columbia Streets, Vancouver, 8.C.; the
Boston Hat Works and News Co., 109 A Eighth
Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
V.S.A.—Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; J. Roland Kay Co., 181/9
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Universal News
Co., 11/ West Madison Street, Chicago, U.S.A.; Golden
Gate News Agency, 119 Market Street, Chicago;
Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.;
Bretano’s, Fifth Avenue and 21th Street, New York;
Schulte News Agency, Bryant Park, l/2nd Street and
6th Avenue, New York City; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, 163 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a
Newspaper ): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., l\d. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., ljd.; Bloz. to 10oz..
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, l/oz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1920.
ENGLISH JUSTICE AND AUSTRALIAN
JUNKERS.
The Lloyd George Coalition Government
may be said to be holding office on the Irish
question, inasmuch as without the votes of
the Carsonites it would fall. It is in keep-
ing with the traditions of the dishonest party
game that Ministers who all their political
lives have advocated one thing—self-deter-
mination, for example—should now, in con-
sideration of office, be advocating a directly
opposite policy. Such inconsistency calls for
excuses, and the Irish Chief Secretary re-
cently tried one. “Who,” he inquired, “is
for Ireland and the Empire, and who is for
Ireland’s assassins?” In describing this im-
pudent effort to cloud the real issue as “the
most insulting rhodomontade in history,” ex-
Prime Minister Asquith, who is nothing if
not clear-headed, served the cause of reason
as well as decency. To claim that all who
believe in the application to Ireland of the
principle for which, chiefly, the Empire went
to war are disloyalists and pro-assassins is a
transparent piece of humbug that would be
greeted with derision in any environment
unpoisoned by party virus. Swift, who
was English in all but his birthplace, put
the position two centuries ago as hundreds
of eminent Englishmen see it to-day. His
view was that reason called for Irish free-
dom, but the love of power for Irish servi-
tude. “The arguments on both sides,” he
remarked sardonically in “Drapier’s Letters,”
“are invincible. For in reason all govern-
ment without the consent of the governed is
slavery. But in fact 11. men well armed
will certainly subdue a single man in his
shirt.” The Asquiths, Bryces and Greys
of the Empire believe, rightly or wrongly, that
the government of Ireland by tanks and
aeroplanes is a mistake—that it would be
better to remove the - “11 men well armed”
and risk the consequences than hang on to a
country which appears passionately deter-
mined to govern itself. The attitude of such
men, misguided possibly but without question
honest, was well stated by Edmond Holmes
in a recent Nineteenth Century. Re-
ferring to those political rulers who have
usurped the powers once enjoyed by kings
and emperors, he wrote: —
There is danger lest they should deliberately incul-
cate anti-human sentiments under the guise of
patriotism ; should give duty to the State precedence
over duty to God and man; should count wrong as
right, Criminality as virtue.
Because certain writers and statesmen in
England fear this tendency more than they
do the somewhat visionary menace of an Ire-
land whose economic life depends on Eng-
land making successful war against thfi
British Empire—because, in short, they hold
the opinions that the present Irish Chief
Secretary held before he left a Staff job
under Haig for a Ministerial one under
Lloyd George —a number of renegades and
opportunists claim the right to rebuke them.
But in England it goes no further than
that, the reason being that the English are
particularly sensitive about their hard-won
liberties. In any part of Britain outside
Ireland a citizen has to do more than express
views on the administration of the Empire
which are distasteful to those in power in
order to earn punishment: he must break
certain old-established laws. This is where
democratic Australia threatens to differ from
the effete old Motherland. Addressing an anti-
Labor gathering a few days ago W. M.
Hughes observed: —
The bill to repeal the War Precautions Act has
passed the third reading in the Federal House, and
I have a profound belief that that bill will pass
the Senate.* (Laughter and cheers.) Under it we
shall treat disloyalists and those who preach dis-
loyalty in this country in the way they should be
treated. (Cheers.) They shall forfeit their rights
to citizenship. (Cheers.) They can go where they
will afterwards.
Most people know, and, if they do not, a
lawyer will tell them, where they stand as
regards tlfe laws for the public safety which
existed before the war was won for freedom.
The publisher of a seditious libel; the criminal
who has been guilty of treason felony ; the
revolutionary who has practised unlawful
drilling—they who commit such offences, or
any one of a hundred like them, are liable
on conviction to anything from the death
sentence down to six months. But under
the English system the accused has to be
tried before he is punished. Thus Lieut.-
Colonel Malone, M.P., appeared last month
at Bow-street, London, and was convicted
and sentenced on a charge of seditious utter-
ances. The text of his remarks has not
reached us yet, but the ex-Prime Minister,
who is an Englishman and a Protestant, was
almost simultaneously talking in this strain:
Ireland during the past six months has been in
a state of civil war, and justice has been replaced
by a policy of blind, pitiless and indiscriminate
revenge. Things done in Ireland by the authority
and incitement of the Executive are equal to any
in the blackest annals of the lowest despotism in
the European world.
So we may assume that Malone went
pretty far —a long way farther, for example,
than Hugh Mahon, whose recent outburst
on the same topic is feeble by comparison
with that of Asquith, the man of whom
A. G. Gardiner wrote; “He takes each
situation as it presents itself and deals with
it honestly and plainly.... It is the habit
of the Judge, for the temper of his mind is
wholly judicial.” Yet Mahon has been
flung out of Parliament in Australia, whilst
in England Asquith continues to thunder
unchecked against Irish repression.
* * * *
To put it in plain terms, the ■ English are
living under a legal code which has been
tirelessly tested for sense and equity since
the time of Justinian, whereas we in Aus-
tralia are being saddled by the agency of
Hughes’s servile Parliamentary majority
with that bastard system of justice which
prevails in armies on active service. The
analogy is interestingly close in the Mahon
matter. A soldier cannot claim a court-
martial. He may be ruined without the privi-
lege of putting in any defence, as happened
in the classic case of Lord Lucan in 1854.
Under the Hughes system no member of
Parliament will be safe who utters what
Hughes decides to instruct his faithful
followers amounts to “preaching disloyalty,”
and any constituency will stand to be dis-
franchised as often as such instructions are
issued. By the exercise of this power the
anti-Laborites should be able to close the
mouths of their Parliamentary critics and'
remain in office for some time. But that
is merely a side-aspect of the affair. A
country which is administered on Army lines
gets Army judges—the sort who were so
lamentably common in the A.I.F. The
modern Parliamentary autocrat who wants
to get at all his enemies—those outside the
House as well as those in it —is concerned
first to prostitute the press and then the
judiciary. And it is remarkable how easy
it is to do both, within certain limits. With
a solid phalanx behind him in both Houses
prepared to vote as he directs; with a press
which, despite occasional indications. of
restiveness, always comes to heel when the
whip is cracked ; and with Judges who bear
in mind the case of Justice Higgins —with
these engines in his possession, the grip of
Mr. Hughes on the liberties of Australia
should be as strong for the time being as
that of any Czar. Of course it will not
last long. But it may cause a tremendous
amount of damage while it does last.
AUSTRALIA AND CHEAP DEFENCE.
Every now and again someone gets up in
the Federal Parliament and proclaims, as
W. J. McWilliams did lately, that Aus-
tralia can be efficiently defended by sub-
marines and air-craft. Mr. McWilliams
may be right; but in that case the experts of
the naval Powers —including Britain —are
wrong, since all of them are banking on
capital ships. The war taught the world
that submarines are practically impotent to
injure vessels convoyed by destroyers, and
the leading flying-men are the readiest to
admit the uselessness of air-craft against
moving sea-targets. So when M’s.P. cheer
the remarks of such men as McWilliams,
have something in their minds very
different from the spoken words. They are
£h m kmg of the patient British taxpayer and
his per head of defence imposts, and not
ot the Australian with his modest 6s. Bd.
It is the British Navy which is expected to
do the defence trick for us in the last resort:
the submarines and aircraft merely repre-
sent a cheap sop to the nation’s pride. But
Britain is not nearly so strong on the sea
as it was at the end of 1914 (in round
figures the Navy personnel is 15,000 less to-
day than it was then), and relatively to
the U.S.A. and Japan it is not half as
strong. _ Very few of the surviving Powers,
are taking the League of Nations proviso
concerning the limitation of armaments in
a serious spirit; but to our discomfort
Britain appears to be one of them.
* * * *
No nation has ever saved itself from a
threatening danger by merely telling itself
that there was no danger. Nor is Australia
likely to do so. Its position in regard to
Japan bears a remarkable resemblance to
the relation China bore to the same Power
before the war. Australia, like China, has
the minerals Japan lacks, and in addition it
has a number of assets which China lacks.
Japan, by its new island acquisitions, is
about 3000 miles nearer to our shores than
it was in 1914, and its naval budget for this
year amounts to the record figure of
£30,000,000, the Government’s stated inten-
tion being to bring the fleet up to the “eight-
eight standard” without delay. So that the
conditions of desirability, proximity and a
capacity to conquer all exist in our case as
they did in that of China. Japan made no
move in China till May, 1915. The reasons
were that by the terms of the alliance with
Britain the Japanese were pledged to “insure
the integrity and independence of the Chinese
Empire,” and it was not considered safe to
flout that arrangement. But things looked
black for the Allies in the month and year
which saw the sinking of the Lusitania.
Japan chose that crisis in its ally’s fortunes
to present China with the notorious Twenty-
one Demands. Britain was much too fully
occupied to protest effectively, and the scan-
dalised cries of America could be more or
less safely ignored. China was a cipher
in the ma_tter, and Shantung was sacrificed.
It was all in accordance with precedent. I #he
Japanese in snatching fortune from the
adversities of their neighbors were acting no
differently from every empire and nation of
the past. “The German tribes,” remarked
Tacitus, “had no desire to acquire through
the sweat of their brow, what they could
acquire by theft.” Instead of talking cant
about Asiatic perfidy, the sensible thing is
to recognise that what Japan did to China
was perfectly logical and even justifiable,
judged by the ethics of world-diplolnacy;
and it is a short step from that conclusion
to a recognition of the fact that what hap-
pened to China yesterday may happen to us
to-morrow.
* * * *
Granted that a fleet of submarines and a
squadron or two of aircraft would be help-
less to protect our coastal cities from a
32,000 monster of the Mutsu class (two
of which with their eight 16-inch guns have
already been launched), much less against
one of Japan’s 40,000-tonners which are due
before 1923, the question remains, What
defence is being devised in Australia com-
mensurate to the occasion? It is hard to get
an honest' answer out of a member of the
Government on this issue, the end of every
Minister’s desire being votes and there being
few votes just now in defence expenditure;
but where the feat is accomplished the reply
invariably has reference to “the good old
British Navy, God bless it!” This is intended
to sound like Imperial patriotism, though
in point of fact it is neither that nor
ordinary good sense and business. Assume
that Britain is pre-occupied again some day
in a distant part of the world as it was when
the tragedy of China 'occurred. It could do
no more for us, under existing circumstances,
than it was able to do for China in 1915. It
couldn’t send a capital ship to fight for us,
as Australia has no dock capable of accom-
modating so much as a 26,000-tonner like the
Renown; and in any event there would be
no more moral obligation on any British
Government in serious difficulties to do any-
thiflg of the sort than there was in respect of
China. No country has a right to help if,
over a long period of time and in face of con-
stant warnings, it has refused to help itself.
When Admiral Jellicoe presented his
1 scheme for the defence of the Pacific by
Britain and the Dominions concerned, the
contributions being arrived at on a trade-
carrying basis, the politicians shelved it, and
talked of sea-defence on the cheap—a thing
that never has been accomplished success-
fully in the world’s history. Had they been
capable of taking the long view they would
have asked the British Government to co-
operate in the maintenance of a Pacific
fleet before the move was suggested. And
they w r ould have voted money for naval bases
and docks as eagerly as they voted them-
selves increased salaries the other day. As
things stand, everything that the normal man
holds dear in this country depends on a col-
lection of chances —on Britain remaining un-
disputed mistress of all the seas; on there
being no more world-wars; on the British
taxpayer continuing to find the money for
the sea defence of dominions from which he
reaps no personal profit, and on other doubt-
ful factors of the sort. No country can take
such chances for long and fail to go down ;
and in such cases the verdict of the world
has always been that it deserved all it got.
DEMOCRACY AND THE PERSONAL
TOUCH.
Professor Gilbert Murray says in his
paper on “Satanism and the World Order”.:
We have been given everything except a certain
necessary greatness of character. Just at present
that seems lacking, at any rate among the rulers of
Europe. It may be recovered. We have had it in
the past in abundance, and we probably have the
material for it even now.
Democracy has killed the little kings as
well as the big ones, but it has not abolished
despotism. What it has really done is to
make national headship a thing to be won
by confidence tricks; and mediocrities have
been exalted to a temporary absolutism. W.
M. Hughes has had as much personal power
given to him as Charles I. ever possessed ;
Lloyd George is more completely master of
Britain than any except the greatest of the
Czars were ever masters of Russia; Nero’s
sway, beyond the immediate sweep of his
local authority in the city of liome itself,
was not greater than that of an Amei'ican
Wherever ancient monarchy
stood high and did well, it was tempered by
a real aristocracy; democracy, in sweeping
out all that looked like aristocracy, has
limited and narrowed its own power. At
its best the great ideal of democratic free-
dom has worked out to a restricted liberty
at the ballot-box. Theoretically, that ballot-
box is the only thing that counts, and the
rest is a more oj less elaborate rubber-stamp ;
but, practically, it is the ballot-box that has
become the rubber-stamp, and the rest is a
man held in no honor and very limited respect
whose power is that of Sultan or Shah for
the term between the applications of the
stamp. The man so placed is no leader.
He may have been called a leader in a
faction; but headship in such a faction
implied the possession of certain qualities
which must make national leadership impos-
sible. Summed up, the situation is that the
loss of some sort of aristocracy has robbed
democracy of nearly all its meaning. In
Australia the people are allowed power for
half a second once in three years ; and even
that power is generally limited to a choice
between two ideas, neither of which expresses
one-millionth part of the national aspiration.
Once the scratch of the pencil is made the
citizen is of no account.
Now compare this situation with that of
the people of primitive times when natural
leadership had greatest scope. There was
a king; and the king was liable to be a blood-
thirsty despot. Ills word was law as far
as he dared to rrttike it so; but he had his
vassals to consider. Those vassals were dis-
trict kings, in name or in fact, who, in
turn, had their vassals to consider, who, in
turn, had to consider the strong local men
about them—men who could stand by them
or desert them at a word. In the long run,
the despot at the top could never do more
than the people would allow. Ancient his-
tory is mostly the story of his successive
attempts to over-ride the popular will; and
all the attempts were failures in the end.
But the despot raised by our alleged demo-
cracy can do things for his whole term of
office which practically all the people con-
demn ; and he does them because there is no
minor popular leader between him and a
scratch on a ballot-paper.
The world’s greatest problem is to dis-
cover a means of restoring power to demo-
cracy ; and the only way in which this can
be done is by restoring leadership. Heredi-
tary aristocracy is as unthinkable as heredi-
tary despotism; but real aristocracy is a
fundamental part of democratic rule. You
cannot pick one man out of a mass of live
millions of equal and untried citizens and
place him in power with any confidence;
and there is no means by which the men
offering for selection can at present be
tested except in the small intrigues of the
shabby thing called party. The selection
lies between the chief trickster of one fac-
tion and the best schemer of another; and
the result is no better than if you took the
tallest greengrocer you could find and stuck
a crown on his head.
The remedy lies in the establishment of
powerful local government. The minor
leaders are far more important to the people
than the actual head of the nation, because
through those minor leaders the will of a
democracy can realty be felt. It is no use
pretending that the member of a centralised
Parliament fills this position of minor leader-
ship. Between the people of Australia and
the man in temporary command Parliamen-
tary criticism is a mere mockery. The local
member puts up a show of fight to save his
face. He knows that the fight means no-
thing, that the boss is not afraid of him in
the least; for if he goes one step too far
for party purposes all the tricks of a sordid
and merciless game will be* used against him.
The rank and file of the members of our
Parliament mean about as much to the demo-
cracy as a broken fence does to a suburban
cow. Nor do the various shire and muni-
cipal councils help in any way. Their func-
tions are so small, their power is so insig-
nificant, that they seem to have been merely
introduced into our scheme of government
by way of adding a touch of humor to the
rather tragic thing. There are, of course,
the State Governments and Parliaments; but
these poor and noisy parodies of the ceiltral
error are best forgotten when leadership
and character are under discussion. Our
salvation lies in erecting little States where
there is community of interest, and drawing
into the work of nation-building the best
brains of each district.
The elector must know his representative
and have an influence with him beyond that
exercised by his one scratch on the ballot-
paper. That is the first thing necessary to
make democracy a reality. The fool and
the fraud could not maintain themselves in
a local parliament which meant everything
to the district; for I would give these local
parliaments the biggest • share of governing
power. The representatives of those local
democracies would be no mere shire coun-
cillors,'’ no petty - tools of party, but the men
really capable of handling affairs. Seen at
close quarters, party would be discounted.
The best organised machine would not be
able to foist a mere dummy on the com-
munity. Character would count; knowledge
and education would no longer be sneered
at. The local parliament would not demand
continuous sittings; and men could devote
themselves to its affairs without sacrificing
their other occupations. Every forecast of
the future is in the nature of guesswork;
but in this direction it is possible to trace
a road out from the tangle of modern sys-
tems. The greatest progress made by the
world was worked out in three States, the
largest of which in the day of its nioral great-
ness was about the size of the N. S. Wales
county of Cumberland. Athens, Rome and
Judaea are much greater in every human way
than Russia, Brazil and Mexico, though all
three of them could be lost territorially in
one small corner of these expansive areas
which own one political centre. The small
States would give opportunities for local
development which can never come under the
soulless centralisation which crushes all
freedom of action in the individual and the
community. Nor need there be any national
division in the creation of a Federation of


THE HUNDRED BEST,
The CHRISTMAS BULLETIN —
a special number —to be published
on Saturday next, December 11, will
include work by the hundred best
artists and writers of Australia. It
is to be sold at the same price as an
ordinary number—ninepence.
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 11.
even 500 political units where to-day there
are only six. The force which strengthened
the local democracy would lift the central
Government to honor and respect.
There are men wisely administering farms,
runs, unions, businesses and factories,
men capable of honestly and intelligently
leading a few hundreds of their fellow citi-
zens. Give them the chance in a sphere they
can understand and in matters they can
grapple with. The electors about their own
doors know them ; and in the personal touch
of elector and representative is all the hope
of democracy. Between the re-erection of
the village or city State and the dangerous
one-man despotism which is now called demo-
cracy, Australia and all the world must
decide.
P. O. M.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Five Years’ Gaol Fifteen Times Over.
There are a few immortal works in which
it is always possible to find something new.
The Bible and Siiakspeare are two, and
Kid McTiernan’s N. S. Wales Anti-I’ro-
fiteering Bill is a third. It reeks of surprises
and exhales an aroma of subtle dislike. Pos-
sibly it is really an instrument for squaring
700 years of Irish wrong. Thus there are
15 clauses under which five years’ penal
servitude is provided for a third offence —
not, however, without conviction before a
jury, though juries are dispensed with in
other instances. Also, under the same 15
clauses the offender, if a “corporation” like
the Bank of N. S. Wales, one which hasn’t
had the sense to shift its headquarters out
of N. S. Wales, may be fined £lOOO and
closed and its business wound up under the
supervision of N. S. Wales officers, and
according to the letter of the bill all its
officers, unless they prove their innocence
(not unless the Government proves their
guilt), may fall in apparently for the same
five years’ jug. The offences over which this
crash impends include (clause 32) raising
the price of or rate of profit (which does not
necessarily mean raising the price to the
consumer ) on any article for which no price
is fixed, without giving notice to the Presi-
dent of the Court, who may be many unrail-
wayed miles away, or increasing the charge
or rate of profit for any service. If a man
drives a cab the rate of profit may go up
unnoticed with the cheapening of horsefeed ;
but that is all in the day’s work. Another
five-years’-jug clause deals with a supplier of
any service who refuses “without reasonable
excuse” to supply it when the fixed price
is offered. Whether the fact that he wanted
an hour or a day off or had a date with a
girl would be reasonable excus'e for refusal
to do compulsory or conscript labor is doubt-
ful ; possibly if he refused because he wanted
to meet three girls he would commit the
whole three offences on the spot and qualify
for five years right off. Should the bill pass,
the next Government may use it to gaol
the bricklayer on his third refusal to brick-
lay at the regular rates. The, big corpora-
tion, of course, falls in most heavily, because
it is ordered (if it is such a fool as to keep
its head office in Sydney) to run all its out-
side branches, even the one in Valparaiso,
on the lines of McTieJrnan’s scheme, and
if it fails to do so three times even the
junior clerk in Sydney may be called on to
prove that he didn’t even know of the offence.
If he can’t prove it he may have his young
life blighted in a cell. Still, there should
always be a cell for the bricklayer. The
general scheme of things is that the possible
offender will be informed what new regula-
tions he has to observe and what new pitfalls
to avoid “by notice in the Gazette and in
prescribed newspapers (if any).” So he
has only the Gazette to be sure about, and
apparently he can’t be too sure about that,
for the case can be proved against him
(clause 63)
in any court by the production of a copy of the
Gazette purporting to contain such proclamation
or notice; or a copy of such proclamation or notice
purporting to be printed by the Government Printer.
So apparently the notice need not really be
in the Gazette produced—it need only pur-
port to be there. And it needn’t have been
in any Gazette or any other paper. All
that is required is the production of one
copy wet from the press of the Government
Printer, or from that of Bill Smith, pur-
porting to be the Government Printer. But
the fine or the gaol will be the real article —
no empty purport about that.
*
The Coming Mumbo-Jumbo Man.
The Commonwealth and the two principal
States are importing another costly expert
from the United States, in the hope that he
may tell them how to change three railway
gauges and some fragments into something
uniform without paying for the work in
the ordinary way. He is to do it by magic,
hoodoo, necromancy, ju-ju, hocus-pocus, or
mumbo-jumboism. It is so long since Eng-
land and the U.S. had any serious unifica-
tion problems of their own that men from
these countries may be rather rusty on the
subject. In fact, the diverse gauge is
almost as exclusively an Australian institu-
tion as the kangaroo, and no one brings
an American expert to report on him, though
the opinion of a New York banker might be
interesting. Still there is comfort to a cer-
tain order of mind in knowing that a man
is imported ; wherefore a small Judge from
a cold, peaceful, lonely-parish sort of isle
was moved great distances, first to report on
chaos in the tropics among reptiles he had
never seen before, and then to consider a
crowd of brigandish malefactors of a type
quite strange to him. There might be some
vestige of an idea in bringing hither, along
with the railway spookist, a Yankee expert
to show how to get rid of the public debt.
Uncle Sam paid his off to the last cent in
1836, not by any mystic incantation in a
graveyard, but just by paying it off. Years
ago, about the time when Dunky Gillies
was consul, or soon after, Victoria brought
from Yankeeland a man of unprecedented
tonnage—one who drew so much water that
only a few harbors in the world could accom-
modate him, and he had generally to be dis-
charged by lighters—to tell how to make its
railways pay. The Yank looked at the
amazing proposition of a State which has
three good harbors to its name, and builds
its lines in curves and twists to divert all
trade, regardless of distance, to the least
promising of the three. Being told that this
aspect of the case was not to be touched
upon, he said the only cure they knew in
the U.S. for a hopelessly non-paying railway
system was to write off capital. It was
painful, but at least it cleaned up the mess
and buried the corpse, and there was a purer
atmosphere and a fresh start. Practically
all the U.S. railways had been through the
trouble, some of them several times. He
opined that, as the Vic. railways belonged to
the all-fired Government or to the dodgasted
bondholders behind the Government, there
were just two possibilities—to pay off so
much debt or repudiate so much debt that the
lines could comfortably earn interest on the
remainder. As the Government handed over
the expert’s fee it admitted that it was dis-
illusioned. It thought an imported expert,
especially a Yankee one, could wipe out the
deficit by burning incense or something. And
the G. Washington man said that if lie
could raise money from the dead like that he
would go into business for himself and not
hire himself out to complete luna —here he
coughed suddenly and said “complete
strangers.” The trouble of alleged State rail-
way ownership based wholly on borrowed
money as Australia practises it is that, in
65 years, not one blunder has been written
off or paid off and put out of sight. All the
corpses are still on hand. If unsuccessful
banks, building and land societies, insurance
offices and such like were similarly preserved,
the main street of each great city would be a
line of boarded-up, broken-windowed shacks
with an old man in each guarding the mouldy
ledgers. Meanwhile the simple idea of leav-
ing off railway construction till the great man
comes so as not to make the problem worse
apparently occurs to no one. Perhaps no one
really believes in the great man.
+
A Day at the N.S.W. Nationalist
Conference.
The inevitable Dr. Arthur proposed that
women and children who couldn’t afford to
pay should be carried to the mountains or
the sea at nominal charges in the summer,
it being added by way of mellow, golden
bunkum that* the sands of the seashore are
the children’s heritage. They are, and some
day when the children realise that even the
sands are pawned for fl an acre and are
getting deeper in debt every day, they may
desecrate the graves of the conscienceless
political loafers and shirkers who have sold
their heritage and them into slavery at the
same time. Of course it was presently
added that these poor people should be
boarded and lodged at nominal cost when
they arrived at the sands, for it would be
no use offering cheap travelling if there
was no place to go to at the end of it, and
board and lodging for a fortnight or a
month is a bigger item than train fare. Then
the whole thing was amended to apply to
“people” generally, not merely to women and
children of the poorer class. This was lest
the poorer class might feel hurt; but it
meant almost free summer board, lodging
and railway tickets for perhaps half the
community. About this time the usual plati-
tudes arrived concerning “decentralisation” ;
but the bald fact that half the State is to
a great extent prevented from going to the
shore because there are no railways to take
people there except at Newcastle and Sydney
received never a mention. The Conference,
instead, plunged into a discussion on the
proposal that “everybody should travel free
on the railways, and that the revenue thus
lost should be derived from the added value
given to the land along lines of railway.”
The petty trifle lost in N. S. Wales would
be £13,000,000 according to the figures of
the year to June last; about £15,000,000
according to the anticipated figures for this
year; and probably £20,000,000 with inde-
finite expansion to follow as the free-lunch
system encouraged business. Twenty mil-
lions would mean roughly a tax of 2s. in
the £ of capital value, or nearly twice the
unimproved rental value, of all the land in
all the municipalities and shires in the
State. But when the vast congestion of
free goods and passengers broke the system
down as it has in Russia, where the free
trains seldom get away at all and the free
letters are seldom delivered, there would
probably be very little land value left. Cer-
tainly there wouldn’t be the £300,000,000
increased values that the crazed jpropounder
anticipated. One reason why Petrograd has
lost three-fourths of its population is the
consistent failure of the gratis train to
reach there. The Nationalist Conference
didn’t throw out the crazy proposal with
either scorn or ridicule: it merely post-
poned the main question and hurriedly agreed
that committees in country towns should
have free railway . tickets to bestow on
“sickly families”; that the. free and half-
fare and cheap workmen’s ticket system
should be extended ; that tram fares in Sydney
should be reduced; and that the building
of 140 miles of railway to connect Canberra,
where there is no trade, with its scraggy
allotment of 28 square miles at Jervis Bay,
where there is no room to accommodate any
shipping worth mentioning, should be hur-
ried on regardless of possible loss. By way
of putting up a glimmering pretence of
honesty and statesmanship and Australian
sentiment, it was voted that a sinking fund
of £1 per cent, should be established by the
Federal Government to pay off “current war
loans,” but nothing was. said about the
Nationalists’ own State Government doing
anything. So one more day of drivel
drivelled along, and one more day of futile
bosh boshed to its dreary finish, and the
sun went down on the old ruinous spectacle
of one hungry set of politicians wondering
what else they could do or promise to do
to outbid another equally hungry set. The
bill comes in later, when one Treasurer
after another imposes increased taxation.
«
The Right Goes Out in Bananaland.
It is rarely that a man lives to be the one
sincere mourner at his own funeral or to
wind up his own intestate estate, but that
quaint honor seems likely to fall on Theo-
dore of Queensland. There have been
prodigal Premiers (very many) succeeded
by reforming Premiers (very few), but
as a rule they have been separate persons.
Gillies and Munro, recognising that they
were only boomsters and would look as
ungraceful in any other parts as a bankrupt
cross-examining himself in the Insolvency
Court, stepped out of the debris and left
Turner, the liquidator by instinct, who
couldn’t boom to save his soul, to deal with the
case. The picturesque but non-financial Grey
did something of the same sort in Maoriland
when Hall succeeded. But Theodore, the
boss but now penniless prodigal, has appa-
rently an idea of being his own reformed
successor, Ins own stern auditor, his own
voice in the wilderness calling on himself
to repent. If he doesn’t repent someone
else will do it instead and get the salary ;
so he and his colleagues propose giving
an imitation of the part. They are
bestowing the sack, as a cold, ungainly Christ-
mas present, on a crowd of their disillusion-
ed followers. There will be very much more
sack to come unless the gentle loan drops
like dew from the brassy heavens; and as
the bitterness of a supporter when he loses
his job is ten times .greater than his grati-
tude was when he found it, there are possi-
bilities ahead. In the awfulness of things
a suggestion is afloat that part of the public-
service salaries should be paid by bonds and
charged up to posterity, so that, provided the
bonds prove saleable even at a big discount,
a number of people may hang on to the
national paysheet when otherwise they must
go off. It is thought that £1,000,000 a year
might.be added on to the children’s burden
in this way. It isn’t described as paying
the old man with lOU’s, but as the old man
patriotically coming to the rescue and put-
ting part of his wages into the loan to show
his unflinching faith in Theodore. But even
with all this there' must be a great weeding
out to bring things back to anything like
normal, for normal in Queensland is a long
way off —Tibet is next door by comparison.
Possibly 3000 discharges will have to be
served on railway servants alone in addition
to 2000 who are already “retrenched,” so
lavish were Ryan, Theodore and co. in
providing for their supporters in that branch
of the public service,/ whereby inside five years
it fell with a crash from being the best paying
State system to being the worst. And these
men are demoralised by loafing, for they were
taught to loaf so hard that even as the staff
increased the train mileage had to be cut
down because it couldn’t be kept up. Also
they were instructed that neglect, insub-
ordination and incivility were necessary to
independence of mind, which will make it
harder than ever for them to fit into self-
supporting employment. When a crowd of
Minister Fihelly’s idle friends, living up to
what ETiielly had taught them in his pre-
Ministerial days, took possession of his
official room for a smoke and a spit and a
sing-song the position was difficult. When
Ministers began to quit their offices by back
ways to avoid their familiar and back-slap-
ping mates, and police had to be sent for to
remove deputations from their corridors, the.
position was practically impossible. The
course of the Ryan-Theodore-ETiielly
policy of earthly-paradise-making was the
same as many that went before it, and simi-
lar ones will come after it. Men were beguiled
without any difficulty from productive private
employment to better-paid life jobs in the
public service. Big loans were floated to
keep them employed and to employ others
who said that Bill had as good a claim as
Jim. Production was small and discipline
lax by reason of the doctrine that one man
was as good as another and even a darned
sight better. The spaces that these men left
when they quitted the competitive ranks for
the easy jobs that were supposed to be safe
so long as they voted the right way filled
up as a hole does when a stick is taken out
of water. The self-supporting industries
which should have employed them either
diminished or closed or never began. And
the downfall and sack come at the worst
time because it is only the badness of the
times which causes downfall and sack. Fur-
ther, recovery is made tremendously diffi-
cult because there still remains a pathetic
faith in the doctrine that less production or
no production at all is the cure for every
ill. A 40-hour week is on the programme,
and the coastal steamship service is being
held up with spasmodic demands for further
concessions. There is a shindy about cor-
ruption in the Brisbane sewerage depart-
ment. The Treasurer says in his own
defence that he will cut down, or is cutting
down, loan expenditure by one-half. But
that alone is no cure. Theodore has to get
the sacked men into employment; which
means that, however difficult it may be.
he has to persuade them to so act that it will
pay somebody to employ them. The Bul-
letin wouldn’t swap him jobs. And it
doesn’t see why it should.
Cocky and Cocky Commodities.
“Two Seas” from a N. S. Wales farm: —
The /wages of the city workers are fixed upon a
go-slow or Government-stroke basis, but in fixing
the price of commodities produced by farmers the
cost of production is based upon a 16-hour day,
especially in the case of milk and butter. By this
system both the farmer and his employees are
robbed to provide the highly-paid and under-worked
city voters with cheap food. A city weekly recently
let this cat out of the bag by remarking that if the
farmers (who have to take what is offered them in
the open market for their produce) are not more
modest in their demand for a living wage, they
will be forced to pay their employees the same high
wages that the city workers enjoy. Cocky is no
fool, and he knows that his freedom from having
to pay basic wages is not granted for nothing. He
is well aware that the Labor party connives at the
sweating of the rural worker in the interests of the
Sydney Labor vote, but the fact is seldom mentioned
so boldly in a city paper.
The alleged “slave-driving cow-cocky” would gladly
pay higher wages if the price of his produce would
allow a fair living wage for himself; but seeing
that a Commission of inquiry has stated that the
average earnings of a cow slave, his wife and- family
assisting, amount' to 30s. per week of seven days,
with all public holidays included, it appears hardly
possible for him to pay an offsider £5 17s. per week.
Some of them, to the writer’s certain knowledge,
have been feeding their cows with bran and chaff
for the past two years, yet every time a little rain
falls in Sydney the same old blighted ass gets up on
his hind legs to inquire indignantly why butter isn’t
back to the pre-historie price of lOd. “now that the
drought is broken.” He then toddles round to some
poor drought-stricken draper and gives him half-a-
giiinea for a necktie that once sold at Is. 6d. with-
out a murmur!
Always the cocky! He is the scapegoat for all
•the sins of the foreign importers, the apotheosis of
H.C.L., the ant in the butter and the tiy in the
milk-jug, the weevil in the wheat and the grub in
the cabbage. Those who know his working condi-
tions and the dull monotony of his daily life marvel
that he doesn’t turn Bolshevik and migrate to the
pleasures and higli wages of the one and only city
more frequently than he does at present. To give
him a fair deal in price-fixing the Government should
run a dairy-farm on a 44-hour week basis, pay the
employees on the farm a wage that a wharf-laborer
would be satisfied with, .and base the cost of produc-
tion on the result of the experiment. Failing this
the long-suffering teat-squeezers will flock to Sydney
in a body and join the pony-racing industry, and
the Government will then be forced to provide a cow
for every unionist, and the wharfies will strike
because the milking prevents them being in time
for the first race. This will be settled by the appoint-
ment of State milkers (not the political variety),
and Cocky will come into his own with a soft
billet at award rates, and the dear Lord knows he
will not be out of his turn.
♦
Parliamentary Blackguardism.
As Parliamentary salaries soar Parliamentary
standards of intellect and conduct get closer
to the gutter. A controversy now running its
turbid course in the N. S. Wales Billings-
gative Assembly, which is in process of
awarding itself a massive increase of pay,
is a case in point. It is a desperately squalid
business, but it helps to explain why, in
spite of the energetic attempts of breeches-
pocket patriots “to make public life more
attractive,” gifted and sensitive men find it
about as attractive as a disease.
October 27.
J. W. Doyle : Is the Attorney-General aware of
the fact that 12 or 14 years ago a terrace of cot-
tages was built in Formosa-street, Drummoyne, that
at that time the rent of these cottages was 12s. per
week, and that, although many of the same tenants
are now occupying them, they are being charged 255.
a week ? Is he further aware that these cottages
are owned by one Thomas Henley, Knight of the
British Empire, and will he see what action he can
take to prevent people from being fleeced by this
ra’ck-aPenting landlord ?
October 28.
Henley : There is no terrace of houses jn For-
mosa-street, Drummoyne; the houses there are all
detached or semi-detached. The rent of the largest
dwelling in the street has never been more than
18s. a week. When the rents were 12s. a week
there was no sewerage or Federal land-tax. In
the last six years they have been increased 124
per cent., which is less than the amount of the
increased rates and taxes. I ask the member to
withdraw pr repeat his assertions outside.
Doyle: The information was given to me in all
sincerity, and I raised the question in the House to
have inquiries made as to its truth or otherwise. If
the statement I made cannot be proved I will with-
draw it.
November 11.
Henley : Has the member verified the information
supplied to him? If not, will he apologise?
Doyle: I have been very busy during the last
week or two, and I have not had time to see the
friend who gave me that information. When I
do I have no doubt it will prove to be substantially
correct.
December 1.
Henley: Can the member produce his proof yet,
or will he apologise?
Doyle : I am still in the same position. I
haven’t yet had time to go out to see my friend.
In a society of gentlemen—a club, for
instance —a member who made damaging
allegations against another member and
was unable to substantiate them and refused
to withdraw would be enthusiastically
expelled. But in the N. S. Wales Billings-
gative Assembly, which . doesn’t observe the
usages of gentlemen, a member may do all
these things, and add insult to injury in
the Doyle fashion, without suffering any
penalty whatever; in fact, he will be re-
garded in some quarters as being rather
clever. If The Bulletin accused Henley
of being a rack-renting landlord, and didn’t
produce the evidence it would be a £lOOO
libel. If it were shown that the paper had
been given the opportunity to apologise, that
it had agreed to apologise if it couldn’t
furnish proof, and that instead of apologis-
ing it repeated the libel and boisterously
affirmed its belief in the truth of evidence
which it couldn’t or wouldn’t produce, the
damages would be at least £2OOO, and each
verdict would, of course, carry costs. But
what is a serious breach of the law in the
case of a newspaper or a private citizen is
no breach at all when the offender is a
member of Parliament. Being a member of
Parliament enables any slanderous blather-
skite to defame his personal enemies with
impunity. It is a peculiarly modern and
unforeseen perversion of the old Parliamen-
tary privilege of freedom of speech. Free-
dom of speech was once necessary to shield
the representatives of the people from the
rage or malice of kings. Along with free-
dom of speech went freedom from arrest —
as the Encyclopaedia Britannica puts it,
“not only the persons of members but their
goods were protected, and the privilege
extended to their servants”: they could
neither be sued nor be subpoenaed as wit-
nesses. Most of these obsolete privileges
were abolished in the last century, and the
old exemption from the laws of libel and
slander should go the same way. Just as
a member of Parliament may now he sued
for debt or criminally prosecuted or com-
mitted to prison for contempt of Court, so
he should be answerable at law for private
calumnies uttered in the. House and recorded
in Hansard for all men to read. The with-
drawal of this 20th-century degradation of
an ancient immunity would put an end to
much of the blackguardism that defiles Aus-
tralian Parliaments, the N. S. Wales


New South Wales State Loan, £3,000,000
RATE OF INTEREST 5| per cent., free from State and Federal Income Taxes.
Principal repayable Ist December, 1930.
List of applications closes 3rd January, 1921.
INVEST £lO or £lOO FOR YOUR CHILDREN.
Subscribe early and often.
The application forms may be obtained from the Registrar of Stock, The Treasury, Sydney, and from all
Branches of the Government Savings Bank, Bank of New South Wales, and Commercial Banking Company of Sydney,
Limited, throughout the State. JOHN T. LANG, Colonial Treasurer.
Assembly above all. By ridding the body
politic of a running sore it would do more
“to make public life attractive” than half-
a-dozen predatory increases of salary.
Back to 1854.
It is related by the historian of Local Gov-
ernment that the City of Sydney was incor-
porated under the Municipal Council on
July 20, 1842. "Grave dissatisfaction, how-
ever, arose as to the manner in which its
affairs were conducted. A Select Committee
was appointed to inquire into the matter
and reported in favor of the abolition of
the Municipal Council, with a recommenda-
tion that its powers should be vested in three
Commissioners. This was done; the Cor-
poration was dissolved; and from the begin-
ning of 1854 to the end of 1857 its authority
was exercised by a Commission of three.”
Things are trending rapidly towards a repeti-
tion of history. The municipality is being
managed on lines so demented that unless
there is a great and drastic change conk
mission-government will loom up as the only
alternative to bankruptcy, and the cry of the
fed-up ratepayers will be “Back to 1854.”
Already one of the Sydney aldermen has put
it on record that “if the accounts of the
Council were audited as are those of a busi-
ness concern they would show that it is
insolvent and that its affairs should be in
the receiver’s hands.” But the grotesque
gang who are running the show, and who
yearned to give £75,000 for a hole in the
ground valued by experts at £5OOO, and
could with difficulty be restrained from mak-
ing a present of £40,000 to a firm of archi-
tects, are heedless of all warnings. One of
these extraordinary persons remarked at a
Council meeting that “there were millions
available in Australia” (Premier Theodore,
of Queensland, would give something to
know their address), and that the Council
was after some of them. If the municipal-
ity’s financial expert couldn’t catch a few
of the millions and deliver them at the old
shop, “then we will get a man who can.
This Council,” he added with a magnificent
flourish, “is not going to be kept back for
the sake of a paltry quarter of a million.”
It seems that the paltry quarter of a mil-
lion is wanted for the laying down of
200,000 yards of asphalt in Sydney’s dusty
and dilapidated streets, for after a year
of frenzied misrule in the labor department,
culminating in the Saturday loaf, a smear
of asphalt on a Sydney thoroughfare costs
255. a yard. There is a certain grandiose
quality in this lofty contempt for millions,
but in a time of financial stringency and
growing unemployment it is the most reck-
less kind of folly and will only accelerate the
smash. Meanwhile, the town bumbles are
in process of electing a mayor for the ensu-
ing 12 months. The choice will nominally
be made by the Labor aldermen, who are
in a majority of two, but the matter has
been taken out of their hands and decided
by the A.L.P. executive, and the chairman
of that body— Lambert, the A.W.IJ. secre-
tary—is evidently to be mayor. It is to *the
credit of the A.L.P. executive that it vetoed
the scatterbrained mine-purchase and Moore-
street-extension schemes. Knowing the
Labor aldermen as it does, it probably has
good reason for the belief that they are
incapable of exercising their discretion
wisely. All the same, the intrusion of this
foreign and unrepresentative body is a dan-
gerous trespass upon the rights of the rate-
payers. When the lodger-vote was conceded
the party system became an inevitable fea-
ture of N. S. Wales municipal politics, but
the A.L.P. executive has no more right to
nominate the Mayor of Sydney, or any other
city or town, than it lias to nominate the
Premier of the State. In Westralia, which
has gone a step further than S. Australia,
mayors are elected by direct vote of the
ratepayers, and they need not have been
members of the councils over which they are
summoned to preside. This system is th°
logical result of the lodger franchise. It is
cleaner and sweeter than the selection of
the chief magistrate by clique or caucus,
A.L.P; executive or National Federation,
and improves the quality of local govern-
ment by extending the range of choice.
Doubtless some day it will be adopted in
N. S. Wales, but Sydney looks like having
its return to 1854 first.
From Frederic C, Griffith ;—•
The Bulletin (25/11/’2Q) says that “commercially
the United States is our worst customer and there
is no sign that it will be anything different this
century at least.” The Bulletin is generally fairly
accurate, and I think it should explain its reference
to the United States as our “worst customer.”
According to our own statistics the United States
takes more Australian products—in point of value
—than any country in the world after the U.K. and
British possessions, and ""during the past five years
has bought from us more than France, Belgium or
Germany ever did during past periods of five years.
So that the United States is our second-best cus-
tomer.
Exports of Australian products in new lines of
trade are regularly going, to the United States. The
fact that our volume of sales to the United States
is not larger is mainly our own fault. Certainly
we cannot complain of the American tariff, or
lack of shipping facilities. And at present the
exchange situation favors us as sellers.
It shouldn’t be necessary to explain the
obvious; still
The U.S. is our worst customer because it is the
one we can worst afford to keep and best dispense
with. Its consistent policy is to buy little and sell
much and to rake in gold and lend out the gold.
So in 1918-19 we had to find between 18 and 19
millions of specie or its equivalent to pay the
difference to this one consistently bad customer—
consistently bad because the balance is always
against us. Other countries reverse the process—
practically every one of them —so in 1917-18 they
owed us some 20 millions on the exchange, and for
a place with so much interest to pay abroad that
20 millions was the difference between ruin and at
least partial salvation. If Australia managed to
forget that there is such a place as the U.S., then
we would be several millions better able to meet
our foreign liabilities every year. So would most
countries with which Uncle Sam deals —that is why
he is the world’s financial colossus to-day. A rich
creditor country which can afford an excess of im-
ports can also afford, in moderation, the luxury of
Samuel’s acquaintance. A chronic debtor like Aus-
tralia can’t. He is almost the only person on earth
who is too expensive to know commercially. At the
same time The Bulletin didn’t and doesn’t “com-
plain of the American [i.e., U.S.] tariff.” It is a
magnificently fine tariff, and when we get one like
it almost every local agent for U.S. goods (which
we really can’t pay for in such vast quantities) will
pack his grip and leave, and our people will leax-n
a little more self-reliance.
■*
This was part of a recent one of John
Storey’s daily sermons in the Sydney press;
Production, for business reasons, is never allowed
to overtake consumption. Factories would rather
close down three days a week than produce a sur-
CHASING HIS SHADOW.
plusage of goods and let the public have them at
low prices.
Now John Storey might explain one or
two other things :
(1) When did he ever see a “surplusage” of
anything in Australia caused by the local manufac-
turer getting ahead of the local market? His own
State is importing mostly-manufactured goods just
now at the rate of some £76,000,000 a year for
want of local output.
(2) Have the stoppages by the manufacturers’
desire to limit supplies of goods been noticeable in
the same sense as the stoppages caused by his own
friends’ desire to limit supplies of labor to produce
goods ? And as regards steady restriction, can he
show that the manufacturer forced the eight-hour
day on the men, or the 44-hour or the 40-hour week,
or the 30-hour week demanded at Broken Hill?
(3) Does he really think that a manufacturer
yearns to have his plant earning money only three
days a week, while rent, taxes, interest on borrowed
money, interest on his own money, deterioration,
and the pay of the salaried staff go on for the
whole six or seven days?
(4) If the easy-going, short-hour policy doesn’t
decrease production, why has it been necessary for
the N. S. Wales Government to appoint 2232 new
departmental and industrial officials, quite apart from
the railways, in three months, raising the number
from 17,125 to 19,357?
One of the greatest curses of the present
time is the slavery of the politician to his
party. He hardly ever attempts to lead.
He practically' never attempts to correct.
He finds out what the noisiest —and there-
fore, as a rule, the most thoughtless and
ignorant—want to hear, and he tells them
that thing. A generation or two ago kings
and courts bred sycophants. To-day a new
king has come, and in his court there are
more sycophants than ever there were in
the others. And they probably do more harm.
———-♦
“Copabella” : It is selfishness, of course,
that makes the profiteer; but he wouldn’t
flourish if the community—-even the com-
munity which does the most yelling against
him —wasn’t tarred with the same brush.
Geelong has just proved the truth of this.
A little group at the Trades Hall there
formed a League of Consumers, which, bv
co-operative block-buying for cash, would
break down prices of whatever it tackled.
The League was to be at least a thousand
strong, a battalion of buyers available for
throwing at any point in the business front.
If it was found that traders would not make
concessions in price to the battalion, it was
proposed to give the block to this trader or
that, in the certainty that traders robbed
thus of their proportion of the thousand’s
trade would offer terms in order to regain
it. The League decided to take commodity
by commodity. Invitation to tender brought,
first, a low quotation for firewood. The
League then moved on to bread. A small
bakery, seeing in the scheme a chance to get
rid of its delivery charges, tendered to supply
to certain distributing centres at 2d. per
loaf below the Commission-fixed rate. The
League was to undertake distribution, taking
|d. a large loaf for its trouble. For 2s.
entrance fee to the League and the trouble
of walking a few yards, the net gain to con-
sumers was to be 1-id. a large loaf. Thirteen
hundred League members were quickly en-
rolled. Paeans were sung, and the Geelong
Consumers’ League’s generals got calls to
come over into all sorts of Macedonias and
help consumers down their local profiteers.
Then one master-baker not only dropped his
price to that of the League’s tenderer, but
delivered the goods to the customer’s door as
well. Two or three masters stood out a
day or two, but within a week the price of
bread in all Geelong (save at the Consumers’
League depots, where it was 94d.) was 9d.
per loaf delivered! It was the consumers’
chance to prove the virtues of solidarity;
but the loaf delivered to the door —and at
a ha’penny below Consumers’ League depot
price—was more potent than principle or
solidarity. Not only did consumers not sup-
port their dep ts, but the League tenderer
lost as well his old legitimate lld.-a-loaf-
de 1 ivered-at-the-door connection. SOS sig-
nals by the League availed not; depHt
patronage drooped and dropped. Then the
master-bakers met, compared their bill of
losses, and, the Consumers’ League tenderer
contritely and gratefully among them, put up
their price to the old lid. But it i.s tipped
that it will soon be more.
“Ex-Permanent Officer” closes the con-
troversy
I have delayed replying to “L.M.L.E.’s” (B.
11/11/’2O) claim that the decline in German moral
in 191# was due to sniping until I could consult
staff and fighting officers and representatives of
auxiliary services who had opportunities for un-
biased observation. All agree that sniping was the
least of the factors contributing to the white-anting
of Fritz’s esprit de corps. What principally smashed
the Boche moral was: (1) The April fighting at
Hangard Wood, Villers-Bretonneux, Corbie and
further north, which stopped the hitherto irresistible
German advance; (2) the Demancourt scrap, where
Fritz had a temporary success, but was driven back
by the 4th Division; (3) the night counter-attack
at Villers-Bretonneux (one of the most daring and
successful in military history). The capture of.
Ville-sur-Ancre and Morlancourt, the series of attacks
between the Somme and Ancre, and the final coup of
Hamel all helped. These in every case were definite
operations and all were successful. The prisoners
taken in every case exceeded the casualties incurred.
: Yet in the tactics employed rifle fire was hardly
used. It took heavy and repeated blows like these
to break the spirit of a colossal and hitherto success-
ful army. Other, but subsidiary, factors were: (a)
Raids, especially “silent” ones, where the Aussies
got into Boche posts and accounted for all the
garrison, rifle fire being prohibited; (b) constant
harassing fire by artillery (heavy and field) on
roads, tracks, approaches and billets; (c) gas-
shelling (chiefly at night) ; (d) projector gas attacks
(range up to 2000yds; drums of liquid-gas fired by
electricity from up to 1000 mortars on billets,
trenches and supports) carried out by Royal Engineer
units; (e) air-bombing; and (f) indirect fire by
machine-guns on roads, tracks, etc., chiefly by night.
The rifle was not used in any of these operations.
Sniping may come next. It probably had some effect,
but no more than the German potting had on us, and
certainly much less than any of the stunts alluded to.
“L.M.L.E.” talks about snipers going out into
No Man’s Land. There was no need. Some snipers
fired from camouflaged loopholes; others from more
commanding “possies” behind the line. As a matter
of fact, at the time he alludes to sniping did not
come up to expectations and Corps Staff seriously
considered the taking of snipers from company con-
trol and putting them under Brigade H.Q. As for
the long rifle, when the Maorilanders landed on
Gallipoli they were armed with the L.M.L.E., but
every M.L. Digger at first opportunity discarded the
long weapon and got a short from the Aussie dead.
Canada dropped the Ross and U.S.A. the Springfield,
both long rifles, to adopt the British short; but all
gradually replaced a large proportion of their rifles
by machine-guns. In the Australian Divisions in
1915 we had two machine-guns per battalion, but
in 1918 there were 64 Vickers (heavy) per division
and 36 Lewis (light) per battalion. Rifles decreased
by one-half, two sections out of four in every
platoon replacing the dub weapon by the Lewis-
gun.
»
“Fuf” (Ceylon) : I asked my shop-wallah
for Australian jam. He showed me row
upon row of attractive-looking English and
American jams, every label intact, every tin
in perfect condition, and then pointed scorn-
fully to the Australian exhibit —shoddy,
glaring-blue labels, stained and streaked
from leakage, and every tin damaged. They
looked as if they had been kicked the whole
way from Australia. “We have to sell
most of it at reduced rates,” said the shop-
man. “The jam is all right, and it’s cheaper
than the American stuff; but who would
expect to find anything decent in a tin like
this?” Every shop in Colombo has the same
tale about goods from Australia. “They
don’t know how to pack their goods.”
There are Australians in Cieylon—chiefly
girls who have married planters—who would
help their country’s trade along, but what
can we do in the face of this slovenly and
scamped work, or worse?
The demand for the Christmas Bulletin
has been so much in excess of all previous records
that it has been found impossible to supply all
agents’ orders in full. It seems to be a fair thing
therefore to remind regular readers of The Bulletin
who may desire copies that the early applicant at
the bookseller’s and news-agent’s is the one least
likely to be disappointed. This special number will
be available next Saturday, December 11, at the
same price as an ordinary number—ninepence.
POSTSESSIONAL:
An Anthem for the Use op Federal Members.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
And so the fight is o’er ; the day is won,
We rest upon our arms, and feel the sun
Kiss fevered brow and cheek.
No longer is it asked of us that •we
Should talk the clock around for £s. d.
Our far-flung hoifies we seek,
Content to rest and hear the drowsy bee
Instead of William Morris Hughes, P.C.
What though we catch when speaks the rowdy brook
The lilting silver tones of Joseph Cook,
Our hearts are glad within.
Though we be haunted by the scathing wit
Of Thomas Joseph Ryan—what of it?
These ghosts are pale and thin,
And anything is better than the mesh'
They weave about us when their tongues are flesh.
Behold the dainty Jowett—even he
Is but a phantom in the memory,
Winsome and sweet, but pale;
And Michael Considine’s loud protests are
But thunder playing round some other star,
Or like the far-off gale
Which sways the yellow leaves of distant trees
While we rest in a valley at our ease!
McWilliams’ fury, empty as the air,
Is now unleashed in some Tasmanian lair
Where mountain devils lurk;
John West may rumble to his heart’s content,
The ether waves will reach us thin and bent.
And what of Brennan’s dirk'?
Its thrusts and drives will leave us calm and bland
When we are scattered far across the land.
Enough ! Have done ! Hooray! The session’s dead.
The House was never quite as good as bed —
Praise Allah for release!
The roses blow and trees dance on the hill;
Our twenty quids a week we’re drawing still—
The Nation works in peace.
After the night the dsftvn has lit our lives ;
The only folk who suffer are our wives!
VICTORIA.
C. D. C.


Empire Defence and tHe Safety of Australia.
Mr. Amery, Under-Secretary for the
Colonies, in giving an outline of the naval
defence proposals for the Empire, stated that
it had been decided to adopt “a new system,
consisting of a defensive chain, of which
each link will be primarily equipped to sus-
tain its own defence”
Naval Defence is, to Australia, of grave importance, and calls
for preparedness with ships of war, guns and munitions.
Australia cannot risk her safety by dependence upon others
to supply her needs in these directions. The facilities for
their manufacture in case of necessity must be established
here. This makes essential the development, on a sound
basis, of the
Australian Iron
and Steel Industry
apart altogether from the economic aspect of the question.
12
POLITICAL
POINTS
Britain, which is making an heroic
attempt to pay off its war debt, only levies
super-tax on large incomes— i.e., £2OOO a
year and upwards. N. S. Wales has no war
debt to worry about, and is persuaded that
it can do with less work, yet the N. S.
Wales super-tax starts on incomes of £251,
and the Government which reckons it can
vet along by working less and borrowing and
importing more is raising it to 6d. in the
£. The minimum income-tax in the Ma
State will in future be Is. 3d. in the £, and
the tax on companies has been doubled—
they used to pay Is. 3d. in the £, and will
now pay 2s. 6d. “It is the only means of
straightening the finances,” the Treasurer
amiably explains. It is also a means of
hurrying on the inevitable bursting of the
land- and loan-boom, but this view of the
case is gaily ignored by the crowd in office.
They have provided against the day of wrath
by awarding themselves another £7 a week,
as from November 1 (the back pay will come
in handy for the Christmas race meetings),
so why should they vex themselves?
From the Federal Gallery:—
Even if the Federal Government wins the Kal-
goorlie by-election it can’t be certain of its majority.
The report that Higgs will step into the Cabinet
after Groom slides into the chair of Public Service
Arbitrator is not likely to improve the temper of
certain of Hughes’s supporters, who reckon that they
have first claim to be considered for the vacancy—
they can’t forget that not so long back Higgs was
one of the most pertinacious of Labor critics.
Already there is a sound of defection in the National-
ist party. One N. S. Wales Liberal has had enough
of it, and is ready to hang up his hat in the
Coekies’ room. Another rural member from another'
State is talking of doing likewise during the recess.
As Hughes cannot now count on the strict allegiance
of Watt, and finds Fowler and Francis voting against
him more often than he likes, the more he broods
the more he realises the advantages of some settled
occupation in London or Washington.
This world is a more humorous old globe
than it looks. For instance:—
The Supreme Economic Soviet at Moscow has issued
a decree permitting foreign capitalists to work
Russia’s natural riches. .. .The Government promises
the capitalists that' their investments and their
undertakings shall not be nationalised, confiscated or
Requisitioned.
In other words, the cannibal chief hangs a
notice on his stockade: “We ate all the
previous missionaries. Owing to lack of con-
fidence we now find ourselves short of
missionaries. If some more missionaries will
come we promise not to eat them.”
The unemployed, reported a while ago to
number 10,000 on the register, and an
unknown number not there, are said to be
fast increasing in the Ma State, and a
rather dismal Christmas is feared. “The
sack” is becoming almost constant (900
samples are saifi to have been delivered in
the Sydney grocery trade alone), and “offi-
cials connected with Sydney Trades Hall are
full of forebodings regarding the future.”
But what did they expect? The State, as
Christmas approached, imported goods in
three months to eight or ten millions over
the average. One cause of this violent out-
break of the importing disease was the
scarcity and uncertainty of local output.
Yet the present Government has not said
one word, since it came into office, to urge
its followers to work harder and increase
supplies; on the contrary, it has approved
every scheme for shorter hours and less
work, and been very kind to strikers and
JILTED.
go-slows. Coal shortages, cement shortages
and brick shortages, non-delivery of
machinery because machine-makers couldn’t
get fuel, and other delays, caused a general
slackening like a clock running down. So
orders were sent outside to get them filled
beyond McTiernan’s jurisdiction, partly
because of things that had happened, and
partly because of those that seemed impend-
ing.
In his Budget Speech the Vic. Treasurer
stressed the necessity for the application of
“Spartan principles” in public and private
life for a year or so, and urged the House
and the country to resist making undue calls
on the Treasury. This happened just after the
introduction of the Government’s preliminary
motion for increasing the salaries of the 65
members of the House (including Ministers)
to an extent that will mean an extra £13,000
a year.
A suggestion that he should put pressure
or something on other States to make them
adopt and enact N.S.W.’s 44-hour week
moved the harassed Storey to say that such
interference would be “presumption.” Why
boggle about a trifle like that? The Gov-
ernment has already decided that, in the
case of a concern which happens to have
its management in N. S. Wales though the
bulk of the business may be elsewhere, all
the outside branches must be run according
to Ma’s new law and not according to that
of the countries they are in, and if one
"of them isn’t so run —well, every official at
the Sydney lieadsoffice, though mostly paid
' by outsiders, is a hostage, and may get five
years’ gaol under 15 separate headings, and
the concern may be fined and wound up.
(The A.M.P. Society, for instance, still lias
its head office in Sydney within McTier-
nan’s reach, but nearly three-fourths of the
business is now in other States.) After
that monstrous joke it is a wonder that the
Government didn’t make its 44-hour law
apply to the globe generally.
The other night in the Vic. Assembly the
discussion on the Housing Bill that proposes
to provide cheap homes for people of limited
means brought Tommy Ryan to his feet
with_the suggestion that anybody getting up
to £5OO a year should be allowed to parti-
cipate in the scheme. The House was hostile
to the idea, but Tommy, feeling the neces-
sity of bursting from obscurity, bravely
called for a division. For the first time
in this Chamber for many years every other
member crossed the floor, leaving Ryan in
a lonely minority of one. Even then, how-
ever, he wanted the division, but the Chair-
man ended the farce with the remark: “As
there are no tellers for the noes, the division
cannot be taken.”
From an old Parliamentary hand
Sydney Telegraph landed its friend W. M. Hughes
a vigorous one under the belt last Friday when it
quoted Henry Parkes as one who “had refused a
public testimonial on the principle that no public
rnan, while in a *position requiring the impartial
discharge of administrative duties, should create the
possibility of calumny by accepting a pecuniary gift
from any section of the people affected thereby.”
As a matter of fact, the cases of the two politicians
represent a distinction without a difference. Parkes
certainly never received a vast public tribute of
cash; and neither did Hughes. But Parkes got
plenty of private cheques such as the one that was
handed to the Australian Prime Minister last month.
John Marks, the Sydney merchant who built Glen-
rock, out Edgecliff way, and left a fortune, often told
how Parkes used to demand contributions from the
leading importers when financially embarrassed —as
he usually was. “I look after your interests,” he
atgued. “It is your duty to see to mine and save me
from worry.” The sole distinction between the cases
of Parkes and Hughes is that the old-timer made a
virtue of not accepting a public subscription but
took many private ones, while the modern Prime
Minister takes a big private gift and calls it a
tribute from the people.
Put it to the credit of Melbourne Board
of Works that, on a taxation basis 15 per
cent, below pre-war rates, it has met in-
creased interest charges, paid higher salaries
and wages and met heavier bills for
materials. This feat was largely due to a
sizeable profit on the Werribee sewage
farm ; though the Board also sold an extra
quantity of water last summer, having had
the foresight to gather in water to sell.
Also, among all its hundreds of employees it
has not had a strike.
A daily paper wonders whether the
increase of Parliamentary salaries will lead
to better manners and less Billingsgate.
The Law doesn’t think so, anyhow. When
a member of the community is brought before
it for Billingsgate it doesn’t give him a
bonus: it reduces his salary by the amount
of the fine and costs. Sometimes it stops
his pay altogether by putting him in gaol.
The Law is an old bird.
Melbourne City Council begins to practise
the Spartan simplicity recommended by
State Treasurer McPherson by providing a
motor-car and equipment for the Mayoral
family’s use.
Finding the Vic. Assembly in a working
mood Lawson whisked through the bill to
make jury-squaring much more difficult.
The panel in criminal cases will be avail-
able only a day before the date fixed for
trial. The sugar coat on the measure is an
increase of jurors* fees from 7s. to 12s. a
day, with rises for prolonged hearings.
Premiers are sometimes so unreasonable.
During the no-confidence debate in the Vic.
Assembly—easily disposed of by the Govern-
ment —Lawson tolcl A. A. Billson that he
(A.A.) never did anything while he was a
Minister in the Murray and first Watt
Governments for five years. But think of
the work he put in for eight years to get
there!
Non-ratepaying electors for the Vic.
Legislative Council on taking out electors’
rights triennial!y are required to ante-up
saxpence for a duty stamp. Evidently the
vast majority of the qualified persons
(teachers, matriculated students, lawyers,
doctors, naval and military men, etc.) don't
think the vote worth the tanner, as usually
only about 250 bother to enrol after several
trumpet-call reminders in the dailies.
Westralia and South Aus. think they have
settled where the 129th meridian is exactly,
and so need not worry about any disputed-
boundary question for the future. They sent
a joint scientific expedition to Deakin, on
the east-west railway, and at 4.30 on the
morning of November 17 an arranged wire-
less from Lyons, in France, was picked up.
The calculations based on this have, it is
thought, settled the line for ever.
Dear Bulletin,— Early in November I
bought a copy of the Profiteering Bill at
Government Printing Office, Sydney, for Is.
lOd. (22d.) —far more than such a document
ever cost me before. On December 2 I
wanted another copy to send to a legal friend
in London who is also an authority on
lunacy. The profiteering Storey Government
had got the price up to 2s. 9d. (33d.). Bills
will soon be out of reach of the poor.—Yours,
11. Horsecollar.
Young-age pensions are to be thoroughly
investigated in Victoria ; for there are, thank
God, still some men in public life who are
not afraid to risk the loss of a few corrupt
votes. Treasurer McPherson thinks the
State is being taken down for many boarded-
out children. He can’t conceive that it is
necessary for the Government to carry
12,000 of these infants at Bs. a week. When
the searchlight is turned on it is believed
there will be some revelations showing how
elder brothers and sisters living at home have
contributed but a tithe of their earnings to
the household exchequer, while mother has
been leaning on the State for little Jim and
tiny Alice.
Last year Australia manufactured 97 per
cent, of the cigarettes he (and she) smoked
—and 6413 gallons of alcohol were used in
the fabrication of the coffin-nails. There
was only an infinitesimal fraction of a drop
in each “fag,” but even that may be enough
to start Stiggins on a campaign for the
abolition of tobacco.
Startling information comes from Berlin
relative to the boom in German textile
industries. While Britain’s industrialists
are haggling for shorter hours and increased
pay, the Boclie is bending all his energies
to again push “made-in-Gerinany” into all
the markets of the world. As an example of
industrial recovery the North German
Worsted Manufacturing and Yarn Spinning
Co., of Bremen, declared a div. of 12 p.c.
and a bonus of 500 marks on each. 1000
marks share—equal to a dividend of 62 p.c.
During the 12 months covered by the report
the co. did four times more business than
it did during the previous year or during the
12 months ended 1913. The English market
is flooded also with German toys; and,
though Germany continues to wail about its
bitter poverty and the utter impossibility of
paying any indemnity, there is an under-
current of returning confidence. The dream
of world-domination is re-awakening.
It doesn’t look good when a Department
invents imaginary laws or misrepresents real
laws to work into the hands of any union,
however influential. Thus the farmers of
N. S. Wales were informed in the press
that they were liable to a £lOO fine if they
employed any labor except through a Labor
Exchange (which, for all practical purposes,
the A.W.U. controls) provided there was
such an institution within 20 miles. There
is a law which was passed in the interests
of this Exchange; but it allows returned sol-
diers and sailors to be engaged without
the Exchange, and also other people in times
of urgency-—and harvest is often a time of
urgency. The press announcement, which
had every appearance of being official, looked
like a deliberate attempt to bulldoze and
deceive, and is another of the things that
are calculated to make the country tired of
Big City government.
THE QUID PRO QUO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was given in evidence at a recent inquiry that
it was perfectly proper to thrust money on impecuni-
ous politicians and parties going before their con-
stituents provided the donor didn’t ask for a quid
pro quo. But he must never pay by cheque.
You have made a pile at poker, or, it may be, out
of wheat.
You’re a philanthropic person, but uncommonly dis-
creet.
There’s a party, or a faction, that commends itself
to you
As incomparably Buff, or most particularly Blue.
It’s essential for the country that its rulers should
be changed ;
You would aid this consummation, sir? The thing
can be arranged.
But you mustn’t ask a quid pro quo —
Absolutely and emphatically, NO!
A suggestion so offensive, so indelicate a word,
On these intimate occasions should on no account
be heard;
It would brand you unmistakably as vulgar and
absurd,
So be mum about the quid pro quo.
When you’ve settled what you want to give, and,
furthermore, to whom,
You will meet lqim by appointment in a cosy private
room
After dark—this is important—and avoid the beaten
track
Up the front, or public, staircase—there is sure to
be a back.
The procedure will be simple, for the formula is set,
You will merely say, “How much?” and he “As
much as I can get.”
Not a word about the quid pro quo !
It is neither de rigueur nor comme-il-faut.
You are loading him with treasure to promote the
general good,
He can promise you no recompense nor would he
if he could ;
It would hurt his finest feelings were his acts
misunderstood,
So no 'mention of the quid pro quo t
In these matters tact is everything. It’s fatal' to be
rash.
So, forget you have a cheque-book—come provided
with the cash;
And remember that publicity’s a freak you can’t
afford —
Be reminded, sir, that Virtue was to be its own
reward.
Never breathe it to your right hand what (or whom)
the left has done ;
Cast your crumb upon the waters and it may return
a bun.
But no whisper of the quid pro quo!
Not a murmur as he reaches for the “dough”!
For the critics will assail you with the venom of
the squid.
Be assured that, barring mishaps, you’ll be done
by as you did,
When the weather is propitious you will pounce
upon your quid —
P’raps a score or two of quids—pro quo.
’N.S.W.
D. EMPSON.


For obvious reasons
I Wont do this
unless-I Cisn
swuggla it v
i n p^st
Editor.
The Managing Director and H°P
refuse to play bowls again unless printing macKmeiy
js removed and tf,e room converted into a bowling green.
The wont interview
Union Secretary unless live sta.ff mentions
tKe TVew a± l<za.st twice day .
Ar'i Wild Cat, ir>
Spite of his expression (its
the only one ha ha>S;)
IS "to pr&iS<£
every du'f’fe.r* in f uture unless he.
is a.'Lord M^yor,
The. secr<zt^r y wont Sign jftxz <sk<z.<^u<Z-
iill Eiirnonci Wcarin'o' tS<z (^f<z.<zxtl
jfcsv-tcl JWrxzS E {f*r& y
Ab<zr 6<z<z :it) th rn$ to -a*dvocat<z
£<z-tvtr«*lizfcfron unl<zss tike 6ecretgr^w<z&rs
And Editor refuses Eo another
Bulletin till the xvholcz IS> sacked.
Bui men may slfike
as much as they like ,
David goes on for ever.
SMALL POTATOES.
“Auckland, Tuesday.—An argument over potatoes delayed the departure of the Tahiti for Vancouver. The firemen objected to old potatoes, and
declined to sail unless new potatoes were provided. Eventually the steamship company agreed to the demand, and the vessel sailed.”— Gable.


The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
PRODUCERS of
LEAD —Soft Pig, Refined Assay (Bar and Granulated), Super-refined, Corroding,
Chemical and Antimonial.
SILVER —Refined (Bar and Granulated).
SPELTER—(SoId through Zinc Producers’ Association Pty. Ltd.).
ZINC DUST —(Sold through Zinc Producers’ Association Pty. Ltd.).
Also of LITHARGE —(Assay and Industrial). BEARING METALS,
TYPE METALS, ZINC OXIDE and LEADED ZINC OXIDE.
BUYERS on Specially Favorable Tariffs of
SILVER-LEAD ORES, LEAD DROSSES and ZINC DROSSES.
HEAD OFFICE: COLEINS HOUSE. COUEINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
H. L SHACKELL, Manager.
T. H. SEARS, Secretary.
Smelting Works and Refineries: Port Pirie, South Australia.
Coke Works: Beliambi. New South Wales.
BRANCH OFFICES:
SYDNEY:
25 O’CONNELL STREET.
R. N. KIRK, Agent.
LONDON:
8 & 9 AUSTIN FRIARS, E.C. 2.
A. J. SMITH.
London Manager and Secretary.
ADELAIDE:
62 BEOOKMAN BUILDINGS.
C. S. STOKES. Agent.
KOBE, JAPAN:
ORIENTAL HOTEL,
H. B. HAEKER.
Representative.
REGISTERED BRANDS:
“AUSTRAL”
bhas;
“B.HLP. AUSTRALIA.”
NOBEL-GLASGQW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobei
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HIGH-GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification,
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon, Chrome Vanadium, Acid-
resisting or other Alloy Steels of e very description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
(Listed- on Lloyd’s Register, London),
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, N. S.W.
Branch Works in course of erection at West Guildford, Perth, W.A.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australia should have begun to realise
how thriftless and financially degraded it is
when it was proposed that it should borrow
£10,000,000 at high interest in London and
advance it to the banks so that they would
have coin to pay the people’s bills—one
quarter’s bills—for imported clothes, hats,
ironware, etc. The July-September quarter
was the culmination of the policy of loafing
and hard borrowing. So little work was
done that exports were six millions less than
for the corresponding quarter last year; and
less people being employed in production
more loans were floated to find them artifi-
cial jobs. With so little being turned out
locally, and with industrious preaching of
the doctrine of luxury by people who sug-
gest a minimum wage of £6 14s. per week
in paper money, more was bought abroad
and imports increased by over £22,000,000.
In fact, imports were so ranch more than
exports that John Bull and others asked
for £13,000,000 in gold to pay the quarter’s
difference, as well as about £0,000,000 for
interest on loans —£19,000,000 fti gold alto-
gether. Australia is producing now less
than £1,000,000 worth of gold per quarter,
and it has very little on hand, and paper is
of no earthly value for settling foreign debts.
Unfortunately, for want of a law to keep
men out of Parliament till they pass an
examination in political economy, this
country is infested by politicians who don’t
know the difference between paper and gold.
A Ministry like that of N. S. Wales sees
that paper is abundant and is g<j»pd enough
to back a horse with in Sydney, and can’t
get the fact into its densely-timbered head
that that abundance has no more to do with
buying goods that have to be paid for in
sovereigns than a duststorm has. The fre-
quency or infrequency with which one sees
a sovereign is the exact measure of the
justification of the stop-work and go-slow
and short-hour and big-loan and big-import
policies. British authorities smiled a bitter
smile at the idea of lending Australia
£10,000,000 because it had done '1(1,000,000
worth less work and had, in addition, enjoyed
£22,000,000 worth more of a lordly time.
The Cold Country is going slow even on the
loan for “permanent and reproductive
works” now, and a loan for fancy socks and
watch-chains and giddy hats and footballs
and £5 boots is over the odds.
** *■*,
The Colonial Mutual Fire Insurance
Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1907 .. £31,575 20+p.c.=£20,500 £11,072 £121,054
190 S .. 35,413 20| „ „ 20,500 14,913 136,567
1909 .. 37,960 21 ~ ~ 21,000 16,960 153,527
1910 .. 52,500 21 „ „ 21,000 31,500 185,027
£lOO,OOO Reserves transferred to Capital. . 85,027
1911 .. 49,022 12 p.c. = 24,001 25,021 110,048
1912 .. 42,123 12 ~ „ 24,001 18,122 128,170
1913 . . 48,516 12 „ „ 24,001 24,515 152,685
1914 .. 39,466 12 ~ ~ 24,001 15,465 168,150
1915 .. 45,155 17 „ ~34,001 11,154 179,304
£100,003 Reserves transferred to Capital. . 79,301
1916 .. 46,758 12 p.c. = 30,000 16,758 96,059
1917 . . 47,918 10 „ „ 30,000 17,918 113,977
1918 . . 52,546 15 ~ v „ 45.001 7,545 121,522
1919 .. 40,204 10 „ „ 30,001 10,203 131,725'
1920 .. 48,539 12£ „ ~ 37,501 11,038 142,763
The Colonial Mutual Fire was hit harder
last year than at any other time in the pre-
vious 10 years at least. Had it not been for the
fact that much of the new business was
apparently written at small cost —no doubt
due to old supporters seeking cover for their
heavier stocks and appreciated belongings—
profits would have looked very sick along-
side some previous performances. This
compares the latest underwriting experience
with that of many other years:—
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £61,683 £29,526 £24,433 47.9 p.c. 39.6 p.c.
1900.. 95,254 49,101 32,113 51.5 „ 33.7 „
1905.. 134,748 60,632 54,911 45.0 „ 40.8 „
1910.. 176,949 66,079 69,661 37.3 „ 39.3 „
1914.. 210,738 98,951 87,681 46.9 „ 41.6 „
1915.. 210.313 90,694 86,626 v 43.1 „ 41.1 „
1916.. 213,963 93,852 90,365 43.8 ~ 42.2 „
1917.. 199,941 81,387 89,888 40.7 „ 45.0 „
1918.. 202,655 74,879 91,283 36.9 ~ 45.0 „
1919.. 202,486 87,481 94,380 43.2 „ 46.6 „
1920.. 248,898 117,548 105,444 47.2 „ 42.4 ~
The most profitable run recently was
in 1918, when 81.9 p.c, of net premium
income went in claims and expenses. Last
year outgoings represented 89.6 p.c. of net
premium income. However, compared with
1919 last year’s higher loss rate was counter-
balanced by the lighter expense rate, and
on a considerably-increased turnover about
£B3OO more profit was won.
The C.M.F. has not been a furiously pro-
gressive office. Taking into account the
higher values of all insurables and the
larger stocks recently held by traders, its
net premium income has moved very slowly
during recent years. The proprietors have
apparently been concerned more about bag-
ging fat dividends than with setting out to
capture, as a good Australian office should,
a lot of the business which at present goes
to offices that send every penny of their pro-
fits overseas. Ten years ago paid capital
was £lOO,OOO, but, so that shareholders
might secure a larger bite without making
the dividend rate look excessive, £200,000
of reserves was capitalised. On paid capi-
tal as -it stood 10 years ago the latest divi-
dend was equal to a return of p.c. p.a.
Owing to the larger distributions to share-
holders the amount of surplui profit avail-
able for reserves is much smaller nowadays
than it used to be, but since the co.’s busi-
ness has not expanded rapidly the profit
which has beeh left behind has further
strengthened the position from the point of
view of policy-holders. In 1910 funds re-
presented 161 p.c. of that year’s net pre-
miums ; last year the proportion had grown
to 178 p.c. Funds equal to 150 p.c. of net
premiums are generally deemed desirable,
so from this point of view the C.M.F. is in
a strong position—much stronger than
many of its English competitors. Put an-
other way, after payment of the latest divs.
this Australian office had funds almost suffi-
cient to meet claims equal to four times
last year’s unusually heavy losses.
During the past year the C.M.F. acquired
a Sydney freehold, £16,000 of the purchase
price being financed by mortgage. Funds
are now spread in this way cbmpared with
five years ago :
, 1915- N , 1920 N
p.c. p.c.
Public securities & cash £335,127 78.8 £387,183 74.1
Freeholds, etc 29,971 7.0 00,820 11.0
Shares in other cos. , . 33,190 7.8 38,151 7.3
Mortgages . . . . 12,000 2.3
Sundries . . . . 27,309 0.4 24,350 4.7
£425,597 £522.510
Interest, etc., last year brought in £22,635.
In many of the larger insurance offices in-
vestment earnings alone are ample to provide
the handsome dividend distributions. But
to pay the latest 121 p.c. the C.M.F. had to
cut into its underwriting surplus of £25,904
to the extent t>f £14,866.
The Co-operative Assurance Co. (Syd-
ney) :
Added to Deficit.
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses. Deficit. £3,000
1912. .£4,441 £lO4 £16,025 £12,288 15,288
1913.. 10,074 107 15,107 5,200 20,488
1914.. 14,370 1229 17,725 4,584 25,072
1915.. 14,282 1401 14,257 1,430 26,508
To Reduce
Deficit.
1916.. 12,370 1042 9,912 1,416 25,092
1917.. 16,520 1561 11,458 3,501 21,591
1918.. 18,075 1314 13,052 3,709 17,882
1919.. 22,415 4980 14,739. 2,696 15,186
1920. . .31,588 4668 19,862 7,058 8,128
Australian life offices had a windfall a few
months ago: they were given the privilege
by the Federal Treasury of accepting war-
gratuity bonds in payment of premiums. The
'result wits that Diggers anxious to cash their
paper rushed the life offices to write proposals,
pay a few years’ premiums in advance and
collect the balance in cash. The Co-operative
wrote hundreds of policies in this way, so
for its ninth year it handled a record lot' of
new business, much of it got at small cost.
This shows the growth of premiums in two
departments t —-
Ordinary. Industrial.
1916 .. .. £4,875 £3660
1917 .. .. 6,324 4451
1918 .. .. 8,378 5446
1919 ... .. 11,443 6505
1920 . . .. 19,297 7590
Last year in the Ordinary branch 828 new
policies assuring £242,700 were issued,
compared with 369 policies assuring £124,900
for 1919. The increase of over £lOOO in In-
dustrial premiums indicates the expansion of
business there. But though a large pro-
portion of new business in relation to old
almost invariably means a heavier expense
rate, in this case owing to the cheaply-won
war-gratuity policies costs for the past year
were less than previously. Of the total in-
come of £22,415 for 1919 65.8 p.c. was ab-
sorbed by expenses: last year all costs took
62.9 p.c. of an income of £31,588.
An office in which 12s. 7d. in the £ of ail
income is swallowed by expenses has nothing
to be proud of. But the Co-operative has
been writing business only since 1911, and
the establishment of a life office and early
business-getting are necessarily costly. Un-
til four years ago this co.’s outgoings ex-
ceeded income, and, as the preliminary table
shows, by 1915 it had run up a visible
deficit of £26,508. Since then the visible de-
ficit has been reduced to £Bl2B. representing
the difference between the £40,126 shown in
the balance-sheet as having been outlayed on
“foundation, organisation and extension of
business” and the £31,998 which stands to
the credit of assurance funds. That, how-
ever, does not state the position of policy-
holders: there are shareholders in the Co-
op. who have put up £71,750 —£14,818 of new
capital was got in during the past year, no
doubt to facilitate the cashing of gratuity
bonds—and with the assurance the
co.’s nominal funds total £103,748. Deduct-
ing the £40,120 which has gone in establish-
ing the business there is thus £63,622 of net
tangible assets to protect policy-holders. So,
if the £31,998 of assurance funds should not
cover the estimated liability under policies,
there are sufficient shareholders’ funds intact
—and likely to remain so now that the busi-
ness is apparently firmly established —to
assure full protection so long as the mortality
experience continues anything like normal.
Whether the £31,998 of assurance funds are
in themselves sufficient cover cannot be
ascertained, for no policy-valuation has been
undertaken since 1916. Consulting-actuary
Bremner will look into that matter at the
close of the current financial year, and until
the investigatioh is complete the precise
position of the concern will not be clear.
However, since the policy-holder is well pro-
tected by shareholders’ capital, all he need
worry about —-unless he lias a thirst for
bonuses—is the manner in which the funds
for his protection are invested. At Sept. 30
the Co-op. showed assets totalling £123,661;
on the other side, including premiums paid in
advance (war-gratuity business again) and
overdraft (the management had to fall back
on its banker for £15,862 to provide cash for
the gratuities), liabilities amounted to
£19,913. Deducting these liabilities and the
intangible establishment account (£40,126)
gives the £63,622 of net tangible funds
already referred to. The investments are a
good lot: at Sept. 30 £61,373 was in public
securities and cash: freeholds had a book-
value of £5066 ; £11,913 was out on mortgage ;
£1176 was loaned on policies ; and sundries
accounted for the balance.
For shareholders it is weary waiting:
some have become so wearied that they have
dropped out. £1023 of forfeited capital now
figuring in the balance-sheet. Of the £71,750
they have put up practically 11s. 6d. in the
£ has gone in building up the business. And
that is assuming that the assurance funds as
now shown are ample for policy-holders’ re-
quirements. So the shareholders’ position is
that there are tangible assets to represent less
than half of their capital. Divs. are still a
long way off. The prospectus talked of returns
of up to 50 p.c. p.a, having been earned by
English cos. from house-purchase assurance
business. Owing to recent abnormal con-
ditions, however, the Co-op. has not pushed
this side-line which was to have produced fat
profits. During its nine years the co. has
granted only 85 advances under these policies,
and 57 of them have been fully repaid,
borrowers having taken advantage of rising
property values to snatch profits. The Co-op.
last year, by the way, had a particularly
favorable loss experience: not a single death
claim had to be met in the Ordinary depart-
ment.
* * * *
The Drapery and General Import Co.,
of Maoriland, known all through % Shivery
Islands as the D.I.C.: —
Dividends.
r A Bonus
Pref. Old. to Share- Re-
Aug., Profits. 6 p.c. p.c. holders, serves.
1910. . £17,689 £7500 6 = £6367 £7Bl £34,358
1911.. 21,617 7500 7„ 7438 725 40,312
1912.. 20,994 7500 7„ 7516 791 45,499
Premiums on new shares, £1573 .. 47,072
1913.. 24,357 7500 7 = 7701 889 55,339
Premiums on new shares, £126 .. 55,465
1914.. 24,251 7500 7 = 8146 1010 63,060
Premiums on new shares, £lO .. 63,070
1915.. 21,295 7500 7 = 8173 923 67,769
1916.. 24,645 7500 7 „ 8177 877 75,860
1917.. 21,589 7500 .7 „ 8182 902 80,865
Premiums on new shares, £373 .. 81,238
1918.. 22,884 7500 8 = 9357 922 86,343
Premiums on new shares, £52 .. 86,395
1919.. 30,853 7500 10 = 11,708 969 97.071
Premiums on new shares, £43 .. 97,114
1920.. 37,166 7950 10= 11,766 -1000 113,564
That record profit was not unexpected:
Maoriland has had a. remarkably good run
during the past two years. Though the
islanders have recently also indulged in an
importing razzle, the wave of prosperity
they have had has been much more genuine
than that experienced by the Commonwealth.
Early in the Big Trouble the Dominion
began to tax hard—the rate is now £l4
15s. per head of population compared with
£5 10s. in 1914 —and in this way has met
much of its war costs, while of the 80 mil-
lions of war debt as at June 30 last 53f
millions had been borrowed locally. The
Dominion has done amazingly well with its
products, and last year had a trading bal-
ance of 18 millions in its favor, though,
owing to recent heavy imports, for the first
eight months of the current year there was
an excesk of imports of 44 millions. To
June 30 last, apart from the 30 millions of
gratuity bonds, the war had cost the Com-
monwealth 381 millions, and it had met
only 18.6 p.c. of it out of revenue, leaving
an unpaid bill, including the gratuities, of
3354 millions. Australia has thus been wal-
lowing in a flood of paper while making no
honest attempt to pay its way: practically
every penny of the direct cost of the war
has been met with lOTJ’s, interest on that
paper and other incidentals alone having
been provided out of revenue. The Com-
monwealth has also done well with its pro-
ducts, though not so handsomely as the
Dominion, which was not inflicted with a
Billy Hughes posing as a saviour bemud
a bargain counter.
All this is by the way; but conditions in
Maoriland and the fat profits made by the
D.I.C. are ample justification of the sane
war-finance policy which The Bulletin
battled for throughout the Great 1 rouble.
The D.I.C. illustrates in another way how
much more comfortable is the Maorilano
position. At present a Melbourne drapery
is out after £150,000 of cum. pref. capital and
is offering 8 p.c. with the bait of an extra
1 p.c. if ordinaries get more than 1-1 p.c.
Recently the D.I.C. raised £125,000 of pref.
capital, and though only 6 p.c. was offered
the issue was snapped up within a fortnight:
had the lists been kept open until the date
originally proposed the directors are ‘ con-
vinced that the issue would have been
nearly doubly subscribed.” The D.I.C. s
gross profits last year were £184,706, com-
pared with £113,055 for 1915 and £102,1- <
10 years ago. This rapid expansion has
been accompanied by these balance-sheet
movements: —
1910. 1915. 1919. 1920.
Pref. capital. . £125,000 £125,000 £125,000 £236,795
Ord. capital ... 106,158 116,789 117,558 117,792
Liabilities . . 98,646 29,571 70,858 215,707
Stocks .. 139,124 122,971 190,995 298,073
Book debts . . 60,410 08,492 71,247 91,801
Premises, plant,
etc. . . 173,567 155,287 137,436 134,834
Investments and
cash .. 1,953 6,225 27,236 176,115
The co. sells in Wellington, Christchurch
and Dunedin. Lately it took over George
and Iversley, Ltd., of Wellington and Wan-
ganui, but at the balance this business, had
not been finally absorbed, which accounts for
the large expansion of the investment item
among the assets. Shareholders are doing
very well: in addition to the 10 p.c. div.
they also get a 24 p.c. bonus on the amount
of their purchases. Until recently the •
ordinaries received only a moderate rate of
div., and during the past 10 years reserves
have been strengthened by about £77,000,
apart from share premiums. In other words,
since 1910 the co.’s position has been
strengthened out of surplus profits to an
extent equal to over 65 p.c. of the present
ordinary capital.
* * * *
The Executor, Trustee and Agency Co.
of South Australia (Adelaide) :—
Written Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves, serves.
1908.. £3,776 8 p.c. = £1228 £100 £2448 £13,922
1909.. 4,340 8 ,, „ 1228 100 3012 16,934
1910.. 5,568 8 ,, ,, 1228 100 4240 21,174
Premiums on new shares . . 4820 25,994
1911.. 5,472 8 p.c. = 1486 364 3622 29,616
1912.. 5,421 10 „ „ 2285 200 2936 32,552
Premiums on new shares . . 182 32,734
1913.. 5,314 10 p.c. = 2287 — 3027 35,761
Premiums on new shares .. 125 35,886
1914.. 5,359 10 p.c. = 2318 — 3041 38,927
1915.. 5,874 10 „ ,, 2322 1000 2552 41,479
Premiums on new shares .. 125 41,604
1916.. 4,388 10 p.c. = 2330 — 2058 43,662
Premiums on new shares . . 307 43,969
1917.. 5,729 10 p.c. = 2358 1500 1871 45,840
Premiums on new shares . . 63 45,903
1918.. 7,892 10 p.c. = 2380 1500 4012 49,915
Premiums on new shares . . 312 50,227
1919.. 7,177 10 p.c. = 2413 1000 4764 53,991
Premiums on new shares . . 5825 59,816
1920.. 10,884 12 p.c. = 4478 1000 5406 65,222
Twelve months ago paid capital was £24,200 in
15,900 £5 shares (100 fully paid), and the
balance paid to 30s. During the year £25,800
of new capital was got in (together with £5825
of premium), and the register has been
rearranged to show 200,000 £1 shares paid
to 5s. each. The co. has done so well that
on the increased capital it has been able to
pay a 12 p.c. div.. and then put aside almost
as much profit as was required to pay that
dividend and write off £1000. At the
latest balance the co. had been in business
40 years. During its pioneering days pro-
gress was very slow, and after 20 years it
had the administration of estates with a
book 'value of only £654,500. Ten years
later the figures had expanded to £2,290,309,
and though two new cos. with solid backing
have since come into the field —Bagot’s and
Elder’s—the E., T. & A. of S. Aus. has put
on weight in this way : 1915, £2.953,607;
1919, £4,383,180; 1920, £4,568,146. That
has been a fine achievement, even though
abnormal conditions have helped the figures.
This comparison of earning shows in
another way the progress made.: —
Com- Com-
missions. Interest. missions. Interest.
1905.. £5,023 £708 I 1918.. £12,807 £3039
1910.. 8,637 1178 1919.. 13,174 2996
1915.. 9,772 2603 | 1920.. 18,416 3634
The interest earnings alone are almost suf-
ficient to provide a 1\ p.c. dividend. Setting
all expenses and taxes against commission
earnings, last year there remained a dis-
tributable surplus of £6847, equal to a
further 134 p.c. on capital.
From these figures it would appear that
shareholders are having a gorgeous time.
But the latest 12 p.c. is not all it looks.
This trustee co. has adopted the unusual
practice of putting out new scrip at a pre-
mium. and while during the past 10 years
£34,650 of new capital has been got in. this
money has been accompanied by £11,759 of


Do you use soldering irons in your business? No
doubt you would appreciate the advantages of those
which stay hot and are free from the soot of a
heating flame. The G.E. Electric Soldering Iron
possesses these and many other advantages over the
old style. It costs but little for current, and re-
quires very little attention to be kept clean and
well tinned. An exclusive feature of this iron is
the spiral coil wire handle, which keeps remarkably
cool, and which may be grasped close to the tip
without discomfort. Australian General Electric
Company, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn
Street, Sydney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins
Streets, Melbourne. — Advt. [2
* * * *
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth. — Advt. [2
* * * *
“Pioneer” Wood Pipe which has been thoroughly
tested over years of arduous service has been found
cheaper, more efficient and durable than iron or
steel. Wood Pipe will carry, without any ill effect
to the conduit, mineral spring waters, heavy fluids,
tan liquors, mine water, mine culm, pulps, brine
or acids. It is safe to say that no metal pipe could
transmit such a variety of fluids without incurring
very serious damage. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove. — Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office ; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney ;' tel. City'' 2723. — Advt.
* * * •
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign . Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. AVrite
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
• * * *
Mix your concrete with Leplastrier’s Patent “Multi-
mix” Concrete Mixer. Sizes from 1£ to 54 cubic
ft. per batch. Drain your roads with concrete pipes
made with “Leplastrier’s” “Quickset” Pipe Moulds.
All Australian-made by Arthur Leplastrier & Co.,
Head Office, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
D. J. McClelland, M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins,
C.E. (London); Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work ; contractors advised ; railway work.
90 Queen-street, Melbourne.— Advt.
*** * ■
T. H. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice,
mining, metallurgy, flotation and selective flotation
processes, Collins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Cables and Telegrams: “Remlap,
Melbourne.” — Advt.
• • « •
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selby k Co.,
Ltd., 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.— Advt.
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt.
BS?
■**
T-S,
The Importance of Tight Valves
Nothing impairs so much the efficiency of a plant, increases the
time taken in repairs and overhauls, or is more potentially a danger,
as the valve that is not tight.
The installation of valves in a plant is too commonly a matter of price, of buying something apparently suitable
from a catalogue without due knowledge of the necessities of the case, and unsatisfactory service results.
Reg’d Trade-mark.
It will surely be admitted that the greatest proof of the value of an article is afforded by repeat orders unsolicited. That is our
experience wfih o”t PATENT LEAK-PROOF EVERLASTING VALVE. Such large users as the Colonial Sugar Refining Co.,
G. & C. Hoskins, Broken Hill Proprietary, and innumerable smaller concerns send us their orders for “Everlasting” whenever new
valves are required.
GUTHRIDGE LTD Sole Manufacturers, George Street, Camperdown (City), Sydney.
premiums. These premiums and surplus
profits left in the business have built up
reserves to £65,222, so on shareholders’ funds
the present 12 p.c. div. is actually giving a
return of only 5| p.c. For the protection of
clients the co. shows funds of £115,222.
Before payment of the latest dividend there
were assets with a book value of £119,745,
and the co. did not owe a penny. The in-
vestments are a good lot: public securities
and cash, £81,241; freehold and leaseholds;
£18,366; advances to estates, £9222; mort-
gages, £7302; odds and ends, £1024; and
£2589 invested in a safe deposit.
Some time ago the Marshalls got into the
old Lucknow field (N.S.W.), and a co. is
likely to be introduced to the public at an
early date. The “Wild Cat” went in pursuit
of a prospectus, but was told that it is merely
at the drafting stage hnd will not be available
for a couple of weeks, if it actually does make
an appearance. Nevertheless, this “draft”
prospectus has already found its way into
type and, apparently, also into limited cir-
culation. It' is an interesting document. The
Marshalls propose to pass “practically the
whole of the area previously worked by the
various English cos.” to Lucknow Gold
Mines, in 150,000 shares of 4s. each, 60,000
to be eontribs. available for the public, and
40,000 fully paids and £2500 in cash fox-
plant going to the vendors, leaving 50,000
shai-es in reserve. The “draft” prospectus
scatters burley in the form of much ancient
history to entice the mining investor. The
ostensible .object of the co. is to tackle the
old woi-kings and dig out the wonderful
bonanzas supposed to have been left behind
by the old hands. The old miner, however,
did not miss much gold within reach. Henry
Newman well raked the upper levels, and sub-
sequently Lucknow mines were for some years
under the supei-vision of a world’s recognised
authority, C. G. Warnford Lock. Despite
statements to the contrary, Lock undertook an
enormous amount of prospecting within the
area now proposed to be worked before he re-
commended abandoning the properties. It is
highly improbable that payable makes were
left behind in the old workings which would
later become available for a co. with a work-
ing capital of only £9500. Anyhow, the pro-
posed co. is not going to reach the old work-
ings by just sliding down the shafts. A fact
the “draft” prospectus fails to mention is that
the 13 miles of Lucknow workings have been
waterlogged for years, and it is questionable
whether £9500 of working capital would give
access to test the “recommendations” the
Marshalls propound. The promoters make
liberal use of the recent comprehensive re-
port on the field by Geologist L. F. Harper,
of the Mines Department, and particularly
of his references to the hanging-wall contact;
but they fail to mention that Harper con-
sidered that “an opportunity of testing it
from the old mine workings is no longer
possible without incurring prohibitive costs.”
Perhaps, after all, the prospectus won’t get
beyond the “draft” stage.
* * * *
Some time ago a local syndicate took
up about 30 acres east of the old Luck-
now workings, and was granted aid from
the N. S. Wales Prospecting Vote to
search for the south-east extension of
the main joint. The recent geological
survey of the field by the Mines De-
partment emphatically forecasted the exist-
ence of a contact in this ground, aud
the opinion was expressed that there were
likely chances of the existence of the neces-
sary' factors (i.e., quartz spurs striking the
joint) for gold precipitation. By pheno-
menal luck or good judgment the syndicate’s
shaft, on going through the basalt and proving
diorite bedrock, bottomed on a quartz spur
identical with those encountered in old-time
workings. An old shaft to the north proved
serpentine, so a contact almost certainly
exists. Thusfar everything looks promising,
and now it is only necessary to crosscut to
the junction with the joint to probe for the
third and all-important factor. Old miners
are becoming excited, for they declare that
everything is working out just as in former
days. There are about a score of locals in
the South Lucknow Syndicate, and if they
do get on to gold—-if it does eventuate, it
should be a Christmas gift—the reward is
likely to be*big: in the past Lucknow strikes
have given tons, not ounces, from its lucky-
bags.
* * * *
J. O. Armstrong, who has 15 years’
experience of Broken Hill silver-lead behind
him, has just had a look at the Silver Hill
mines, Rivertree, Clarence River (N.S.W.).
This is the property W. 11. Trewenack re-
ported on a few months ago, and which it
was proposed should be worked by a co.
with an issued capital of £300,000. Before
proceeding far, howevei-, the pi-ovisional
directors, headed by Alex. Markell, decided
to seek independent support of Trewenack’s
investigations. Armstrong now declares that
the property is well worth attention and
that prospects are good. There are three
lodes, the Dunlop, Boulder and Triangle,
and Armstrong regards each as distinct
and thinks no junction will occur. The con-
siderable amount of development work
already done helped his investigations, and
his assays support the high figures pre-
sented by Trewenack. As far as opened up
Armstrong does not consider the ores a
smelting proposition, but “some sort of leach-
ing process,” he reckons, will do the trick.
Pending director Scarborough’s return
from Badak, Bux, which has £4900-odd to
splash, is trying for tin at Barren Island, off
the Speck’s East Coast. This is about sis
likely a hunting-ground as the Jeneri Valley*
but the risk costs little and will keep people
quiet till the great pow-wow with Scar-
borough comes off. Bendigo tries to justify
the Bux float on the ground that people
rushed syndicate shares, wherefore only the
public is to blame. There is a lot of truth
in this; but what about the profits the clever
ones collared out of the calamitous float?
One aspect of the deal that has to be cleared
up is what were the precise responsibilities
of prospector Orton and director Scarborough
when they went north. Was their mission
to serve only Badak, or had they the right
to help others on to claims? The posn .
might have been awkward if the Bux had
been put on to a tiptop property, with
Badak left stranded. However, as Bux has
dropped out no one grumbles. No prospectus
was issued by Bux promoters, for when the
present co. was formed, in 2000 shares of
£25 each, the market was so hot for Malayan
tin that the syndicate not only took 1000
paids for what Scarborough had sent along,
but paid a fiver for each contributing share
into the treasury for the other 1060. All
the float represented was an application for
1500 acres, of which only 300 acres might
be granted, the balance being rice land.
Scarborough, after his first visit, returned
to say that it was “only a question of time
and patience.” If it had been generally
known that this was all Bux had to offer,
would plungers have rushed to take the
shares out of the hands of the promoting
syndicate?
An attempt is being made to induce Badak
directors to dig tin nearer home, where there
are no leopards or rhinoceroses to interfere
with prospecting. Donald Beard has put
it up to them that the Dolcoath show, Ben
Lomond (Tas.),• is worth a test. According
to the records the old-timers took out 50,000
tons for 821 tons tin oxide, or 1.85 p.c., but
then the galena bothered them. Tin was
about £52 a ton in those days, but with pre-
sent prices it is claimed that there would be
a chance with what is left in the main lode,
while there are some subsidiary shows round
about which might be linked up. The ven-
dors ask 30,000 ss. paids.
* * * *
Jumbunna coal is hard on the rocks at
last, and so ends the much-boosted Gippslaud
black-coal industry, except for the State
mine at Wonthaggi. Jumbunna has not hau
a decent chance since the war started, for the
ControHer fixed the destination and price of
its output at such a figure that even if labor
had not been disagreeable as well as costly
profits were almost impossible. The real
trouble at the close, however, was not the
Coal Tribunal’s award so much as the
narrowing of the seams and the hogging of
the workings because of big faults in the
country.
-X- * * *
When King Island Seheelite embarked on
its latest financial half-year (to Sept. 30)
it had to look round for a market for its
product, for the agreement under which the
British Government guaranteed 525. 6d. per
unit tungstic acid had lapsed. No satisfac-
tory offers forthcoming, the co. began to go
slow, only one shift per day being run for
the first four months. By that time things
had gone from bad to worse, the market
having collapsed to 235., and since there was
no prospect of immediate improvement John
Brandon decided to shut down. During the
four months 4882 tons crudes were milled
for nearly 52 tons 71.19 p.c. concentrates,
representing a recovery of 904 P-c. Costs
soared to 20s. 4d. per ton, 6s. 3d. being
incurred in removing overburden, general-
manager Venn Brown having pushed ahead
to prepare the way for the installation of
a second steam-navvy. The half closed with
a loss of £3796, reducing the. P. and L.
credit to £4731. At Sept. 30 the co. owed
£2300 (including provision for taxation)
and had £4766 in cash and War Loan, be-
sides metal stocks which were given a book
value of £3137. So if it weren’t for the
unsatisfactory market King Island Scheelite’s
position would be comfortable enough.
* * * *
The cos. which took part in the hurried
exodus from Hampton Plains and Mt.
Monger continue to scatter. Some are at
St. Ives or around Widgiemooltha; others
have made a fresh start on the Murchison, or
are spending the remainder of their capital
on mines old and new in South Aus. and
Victoria, and one or two are nosing around
Peak Hill, where “millions of pounds’ worth
of manganese ore” is alleged to be in sight.
One co. has its eye on some guano deposits
in the Nor’-West, and on an alleged petro-
leum find at the back of Derby.
Flotation having failed in Perth, Mt.
Zion, of Boogardie (W.A.), is to be intro-
duced to Adelaide. Once known as the
Sirdar, _the show produced about 6000 oz.
from 17,600 tons, and in 1915 was offered
to the now defunct Marvel Loch Co. It
was then declared to be too poor. Two
years ago the lease was forfeited because
labor conditions had not been complied with.
Now £6OOO cash and 43,000 paid shares are
asked for it, leaving the proposed purchas-
ing c®. only two or three thousand pounds
with which to carry on.
After buoying up shareholders for years
with hopes of doing well, London-controlled
Gwalia Central (W.A.) has abandoned its
Leonora shows and is shifting camp to the
Altona, at IvookyniO. This derelict once
formed part of the old Cumberland mine,
and is probably no better than the properties
which have just been abandoned. It was'
the Gwalia Central which, at a considerable
cost, failed to raise Chaffers from the dead.
Prior to 1910, when yields per ton were
much better than they have been since,
gold-producing cos. in the West divided 22
p.c. of the value of their production among
shareholders. Until 1917 they got between
14 and 16 p.c.; but in 1918 the proportion
dwindled to under 10 p.c. and recovered a
point in 1919. The current year’s average
is so far the poorest yet recorded.
* * * *
Records by Edna May Consolidated on its
Westonia lease, next door to the Golden
Point, can be boiled down to “decidedly en-
couraging”—a pet phrase of Alec Peacock’s
office. The best outlook is in connection
with a vein the co. is following on the foot-
wall of the greenstone belt on which Edna
Central picked up its best shoot. Two or
three big buck reefs were cut in the green-
stone and the gneiss, but they were too poor
to linger over. The odd chance the co. has
is that the Golden Point shoot, which is
swinging into the claim, may widen into
■Something decent. Consolidated has only
about £l5OO left to play with, so it had better
let Golden Point do the prospecting.
* * * *
“Awaruite”: Geologist Montgomery’s fig-
urings in connection with the manganese de-
posit at Horseshoe Range (W.A.) do not
bear favorable comparison with those for the
vast deposits at Tchiaturi (Russia). Even
under the best of conditions the Westralian
deposit has little hope of holding its own in
competition with the Bolshie show. Here are
some figures : —-
W.A. Tchiaturi
Deposit. Deposit.
Ore in sight (tons) .. Ti million 200 millions
Ore grade . . . . 46 p.c. 50-55 p.c.
Production cost f.o.b.
nearest port (per ton) £3/10/- £l/6/2
Cost c.i.f. English port.. £6/5/- £2/16/-
Mining cost per ton . . 3/- (surface) 2/- (under-
ground)
The Tchiaturi deposit supplied over 40 p.c.
of the world’s requirements in 1913
(1,171,000 tons). The local deposit may
secure the supply for the Newcastle steel
works, which require about 3500 tons per
year, but the price paid by the B. 11. Prop,
for its 1918-19 supply returned only £4 12s.
3d. per ton, so that the 4s. 3d. per unit basis
of Montgomery’s estimate is somewhajt high.
Mt. Cannindah copper (Q.), after a peck
of troubles, which resulted in closing down
last May, plans to get going again shortly.
Provision is to be made for the building ot
a large dam and the installation of a pump-
ing plant, and the mill is to be overhauled.
The mill treatment has so far proved un-
satisfactory, and the mine has not come up
to promise. The formation is breccia, 120 ft.
wide, and this has been proved cupriferous
over a length of 400 ft., as well as carrying
2dwt. to 3dwt. gold. Secondary enrichment
has been responsible for good values down
to 100ft-120ft., ore shipments a few years
back running from 15 p.c. to 40 p.c. copper.
Estimates of ore reserves vary from 10,000
to 15,000 tons of 6 p.c. copper down to the
94ft. level. This should be considerably
increased by secondary ore below 94ft. until
the bornite runs out in the vicinity of 120 ft.
Below this and down to 180 ft. is lower-
grade primary ore. Even with flbe present
copper market the co. has a chance of doing
well, for the body is large and the ore easily
extracted. But the defects in the concen-
trating plant will first have to be eliminated.
* * * *
Mt. Quamby, in the Cloncurry district
(Q.), is to receive the attentions of a co.
floated in Victoria, though no work will be
done until Messrs. Hodgins and Sheard have
given the results of their sampling. The
mine was worked by the Gulliver Bros, up to
1914, when they downed picks and joined in
the Big Disturbance. The Queensland
Mines Department protected the property
till they returned. This gold show is a con-
glomerate deposit, and has been worked for
alluvial. Mt. Elliott had an option over it
prior to the war, but let it go.
Three new leases have been applied for
at the Ulam marble deposits near Rock-
hampton (Q.). The three principal pro-
ducers expect to be all shipping by the end
iif the year, and the Ulam White Marble Co.
has already despatched IST tons statuary
stone.
* * * *
New Guinea Copper Mines, under Hogan
Taylor, late of Gt. Cobar, is steadily com-
pleting its railway from Mirigit% (Bootless
Inlet) to the Dubuna mine. The rails are
being laid, and the assembling of the first
locomotive is in hand, so that the line should
very soon be open for traffic. A township has
come into being at Bootless, and the head-
quarters staff has moved over from the Haloid
mine. Development is proceeding in both
mines, and at the co.’s sawmill on the Laloki
River a vast amount of excellent timber has
been produced for the wharf, residences and
stores, and for mine use. The whole Astro-
labe copper-field will benefit by the smelters
soon to be erected by the co., and Bootless
in the not-far-distant future promises to be
the superior of Moresby.
S. Aus. Asbestos is pushing ahead with
development on its Robertson properties.
Since June Crawford’s shaft has been sunk
16ft., a number of pits put down, and some
open-cutting undertaken. Fibre lOin. to
12in. long has been met, and the material
won from development has found a ready
market. Prospects are considered so bright
—the deepest workings are down 30ft.,
values improving with depth—that the direc-
tors are contemplating laying out £5OOO on
plant to treat low-grade milling dirt.
Waihi Grand Junction (M.L.) milled
66,530 tons during 1919 for a net loss of
£lB,OOO. Shortage of labor and the fall-,
ing grade of ore were contributing causes.
The recovery value per ton crushed for the
year was only 325., a drop of 6s. compared
with 1918. Reserves are estimated at 90,450
tons.


THE STORK LEAVES ANOTHER.


“THE
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees.
New South Wales: Victoria : Queensland
The only Trustee Company Having
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE!—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Sir 11. Y. Braddon, K.8.E.,
M.L.G., F. B. S. Falkiner, James Kidd, W. H.
Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan Sinclair.
V. G. WATSON,
Assistant Manager.
JOHN MAIR,
Manager.
m
r,
Deafness Increases If neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
Lamson
Swrc
Service
Co.,
102 Datung. House,
' SvJnev.
Olderfleet, Collins Street Melbourne.
N.Z. —John Proctor, 200 High St., Christchurch
W A.—H. Little &■ Co., 851 Hay St.. Perth
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfIiNG ROOF GARDEN.
Management F. T. CHKJSSKMAN.
; ftjSpps
iiilt
PLUG' SUCt-
Kni
THe
finest
TOBACCO
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed.
“EDGEWORTH
R, TOWNS & CO., Sydney, Agents.
[4
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
PIGMIES ALOFT.
[For The Bulletin.]
Lo, a psalm of little men
Throned in sunny places,
Little blandishments and arts,
Envy gripping little hearts,
Venom tipping little darts,
And pride on little faces!
Little souls of little worth,
Thistles of the highway,
What hath led them to their stand?
Many a trick of sleight of hand,
Many a cargo contraband,
Many a devious byway;
Little tenets all awry,
Little creeds that harden;
Little weeds in pride of place,
While the blooms of lustrous face,
With sweet flowers, are left to grace
The good old kitchen garden.
Little sense of form or taste,
Vast the pull of l-iches!
Psyche fat, nor overclean;
Jupiter a go-between—
Bellied gods of monstrous mien
Set in Apollo’s niches!
Brothers of the Morning Star,
Sisters trustful, needy,
Bright hearts, generous and true,
Little men will bring ye rue,
For they feed on such as you
And their eyes are greedy.
Little souls must pass and go
Where Saint Peter’s shade is.
W T hat decree the frowning Fates?
Peter’s keys shall crack their pates;
Hounded from Gehenna’s gates,
Scorned of Heaven and Hades.
So I go my way and sing:
Satyrs, Fauns and Graces,
Demons of the tarn and fen,
Gods of mountain, wood and glen,
Deliver us from little men
With pride on little faces!
maorjland. FRANK HUDSON.
Jack Talbot, who moved uneasily in the
background of the Johnston-Mutch-Dooley
inquiry, is a man with a husky voice and a
habit of being well dressed. He pervaded
the N. S. Wales Labor Party for 15 years
without appearing to have any definite busi-
ness to keep him going; and he has grown
well-to-do upon it. Even before he became
conspicuous for fluttering five-hundreds he
was a useful man for a political aspirant to
know: the habit of “seeing Jack” if money
was wanted for election expenses was as
well-established as Jack’s success in finding
what was required. Gentlemen like Jack
hover on the fringe of most parties, but as a
rule they shrink from the fierce light of
publicity that less sensitive persons love.
' “A.B.” : In 1860 a young man was on his
way to the Kiandra (N.S.W.) diggings to
open a branch of the Commercial Bank.
William Russell, of Cubmurra. entertained
the traveller, and
his boy John con-
ducted him through
the dense bush to
the goldfield, where
a frame covered
with calico burst
into view as the
ban k. Nowadays
John Russell is the
patriarch of Gub-
in urr a, and the
youthful banker
whom he piloted to
the diggings is the
v erier able T. A.
Dibbs, late general
manager of the
'Commercial Bank-
ing Co.
SIMPSON
NEW LAND,
Treasurer of S.
Australia 35 years
ago, and still the in-
defatigable advocate
of the direct North-
South railway.
Henry Gyles Turner, Melbourne’s literary
banker, died within 12 days of completing
his 89th year. An intense booklover he
yearned in his youth to be an author, or at
least a publisher. He tried to get on the
track of the one or the other, but circum-
stances forced him to take to clerking, and
after coming to Australia from his beloved
London he rose to be general manager of
the Commercial Bank of Australia. Then
at an age when men who have won a com-
petence think of leisure he turned to his
former love, and had the largest collection
of books in Vic. at his disposal, for he be-
came President of the Trustees of Mel-
bourne Public Library. He lived for nearly
24 years after his retirement from the
Commercial to ride his pet hobby. In his
buSy days he could only flirt with literature.
He contributed to ephemeral publications,
including the Colonial Monthly, of which
Marcus Clarke was editor, and he was
editor for four or five years of the Mel-
bourne Review, which ran from 1575 till
1885. In the last score of years his chief
works were a “History of Victoria,” “The
First Decade of the Commonwealth,” and
“Our Own Little Rebellion” (Eureka). The
toppling of the banks, prior to their recon-
struction in 1893, unnerved him a bit, and
there were tears in his voice, if not in his
eyes, at the mass meeting of Commercial
Bank shareholders just after the crash. He
was a courteous old gentleman who had
time for young fellows just feeling their
way, and he took pains to make them feel
comfortable and believe in themselves.
Arthur Morphett, the Vic. police con-
stable who arrested the two men wanted for
the St. Kilda mur-
der, used to be a
sawmill-worker in
the forest country
about Mt. Disap-
pointment. The
Police Department
wanting recruits, a
number of the
Mount mill-hands
weighed in with
applications, and a
doctor was sent up
to the camp to
examine,.them. He
described Morphett
as the finest speci-
men of manhood he
had ever seen.
BAILEY . M.L.A.
the A.W.U. man
whose communica-
tion to Premier
Storey about a
gift of £500 to the
Labor funds led
to the appoint-
ment of the very
latest N.S.W.
Commission.
For the 11 months ended June 30, ,1920,
Irvine as Lieut.-Gov. of Vic. received £2846.
For the year’s service as C.-J. he drew also
£3OOO. Stanley was paid full screw at the
rate of £5OOO a year for one month, and
then at the rate of £2500 a year for six
months. Irvine could, legally, have taken
monthly instalments at £5OOO a year from
January 31 till June 30 had he chosen, but
he kept to the half-pay rate, and the State
saved £5OO os. Id. for the year. The Trea-
sury officials must have been in great dread
of the Auditor-General’s lynx eye when they
did not let Irvine have that odd penny.
They also pruned 3d. off the Judges’ appro-
priation on the flimsy ground that it was
difficult to say how much of the 3d. belonged
to Agincourt Hodges, who is dead, and
Mann, who succeeded him.
Adelaide had forgotten that William Mur-
ray was still alive till news came that he
wasn’t. David and William worked up their
little clothing store, 70 years ago, into a big
wholesale affair which is now D. and W.
Murray, Ltd. William went to London in
1866 to do the buying at that end, and did
not come back except on an occasional visit.
David, who looked after things at this end,
has long been dead.
Owing to failing health E. T. Drake, Vic-
torian Sec. for Public Works, will retire
shortly. Once a heavy man, he is now little
more than a shadow. As chief clerk in the
Audit Office, as Government Statist and
as permanent head of the Works Depart-
ment he has done fine work. Had he pressed
his claim he could have been Auditor-
General. His brother is a specialist An
tuberculosis, and his sister, an expert in
cookery, has shown hundreds of girls in
tech, schools how to tickle the appetite and
keep off indigestion.
S. H. Pulbrook, who turned in his last
cost-sheet at Lidcombe recently, was for
close on 20 years one of the characters of
the Central Queensland mining camps.
“Puller,” an accountant, was sent to the
balmy air of Queensland to develop his
chest. Mount Perry almost accomplished
that for him. For that reason he stuck to
Mount Perry when for business reasons he
should have quitted it. London appointed
him general manager, but physically the task
was beyond him, and the properties passed
into the hands of the receiver. “Puller’’
had loved not wisely but too well, and
although failure to keep Mount Perry going
eventually gave his old enemy a chance to
get on to his lungs, he preserved his amia-
bility to the end. No' more lovable man
ever climbed a ladder in Queensland.
W. L. Artlett has taken on the job of
Superintendent of Commonwealth Railways
which J. J. Poynton dropped to earn £1750
a year as general manager of the Midland
Railway (W.A.). Artlett has one qualifi-
cation not common amongst railwaymen—
he is a B.A. of Sydney University. Before
he took a Commonwealth job he put in a
lot of good work for the N. S. AVales rail-
ways, and since the East-West began to
run he has seen to it that it gave the best
service in Australia, or something very near
it.
“Rinder”: If Tom Ryan has “arrived”
in the Federal Parliament he didn't fall
into the position; he was pushed. Behind
Thomas Joseph is Mrs. Tom, and she won’t
let him go to sleep. I haven’t noticed lately,
but earlier in the session she was somewhere
about whenever there was anything big
going. Some said that she was waiting to
hang on the words of wisdom likely to fall
from the lips of her lord, but knowing ones
asserted that she was the driving force, and
was there to see that Thomas didn’t “take
thiugs easy,” and kept his own band of
followers solid against the time when there
may* be another struggle for the leadership.
Old Henry Gyles Turner's name will
always be associated with the colossal
smash of the Commercial Bank of Aus-
tralia ; and the amazing thing about it was
that it resulted from the bank doing things
which for 20 years he had preached strenu-
ously that no bank should ever do. The
fact is the Commercial absorbed the greatest
of the boom banks, and the latter’s general
manager became Turner’s assistant, lie was
a man with a charming manner—a man
against whom, as a customer, Turner would
have been on his guard; but as assistant-
manager he carried Turner off his feet.
There was bitter suffering—in Victoria
especially—over the smash of the Commer-
cial ; but it is safe to say that nobody suf-
fered more than that assistant-manager, and
no man ever made a braver fight to get
people out of the difficulties his tempera-
ment had helped to get them into.
Robert Thompson, Scotchman and store-
keeper, has been elected Mayor of Quorn
(S.A.) for the 20th year in succession. Quorn
thinks it is a record for Australia.
“Straight Wire”: Putting Australia first,
I don’t like either of them ; but I can’t help
noticing these differences :
Mannix. Hughes.
£50,000 subscribed in £25,000 subscribed in
one week, and .refused. one year, and accepted
“with bare fists.”
Just-dead Henry Gyles Turner, described
in his prime as “the greatest banking
authority in Australasia,” knew so much of
the history, theory and jargon of finance that
a scoffer once said he even knew the number
and watermark of the check that Pharaoh
received on the bank of the Red Sea.
“Lockington” has been substituted for
“Panoobamawm” as the name of an irriga-
tion settlement near Rochester (Vic.). Now
that they have made the change some of
the settlers are not half-pleased with them-
selves, as the local Puck has reminded them
that the head of the Jesuit order in Aus-
tralia is also named Lockington.
Billy O’Neill, accidentally killed at Eve-
leigh (N.S.W.) a few days ago, was one
of the old stalwarts of the Labor move-
ment. He was a ctolleague of Premier
Storey and ex-Senator Allan McDougall in
the Boilermakers’ Union, and represented
it for nearly a score of years on the Labor
Council and at Labor conferences. A radi-
cal thinker, he was without guile or lust of
self-advertisement, and he did many a kindly
deed in an unobtrusive way.
The centenary of Campbelltown (N.S.W.)
produced a few patriarchs. Jimmy Water-
worth, aged 90, was one of them. He drove
the coach between Wollongong and Camp-
belltown over half a century ago, and had
the thrill of being bailed-up by bushrangers.
For shielding a passenger on a previous
hold-up Waterworth was tied to a tree and
his horses were confiscated. “Waterworth’s
tree” still stands at Appin. Another vet-
eran, Jim Booking, four-score-and-ten, pro-
posed “The Day We Celebrate” at the cen-
tenary luncheon.
Until last week Perth was the only Aus-
tralian capital that hadn’t seen an aeroplane
come over from another capital. But on
Thursday Lieutenant Briggs ’planed down
to the Belmont racecourse with C. J. de
Garis and Sergeant Harris aboard, having
left Melbourne on Tuesday and beaten the
train by a day and a half. The total dis-
tance travelled was 2169 miles and the
actual flying time 19 hours 10 minutes: The
gaps between the Australian settlements are
shrinking visibly.
Maorilanders are proud of Dr. J. Bronte
Gatenby, of Christchurch, who is the first
to qualify for the new Oxford degree of
Doctor of Philosophy. Gatenby, who started
his study of biology in the Rieketty Islands,
has the job these days of lecturer on Cytology
at University College, London.
Charles Franklin Thwing, of the U.S.A.,
is touring Australia collecting material for
a book on Austra-
lian Universities,
thus responding in
kind to a compli-
ment which has
just been paid to
American Univer-
sities by a Syd-
ney professor, E.
R. Holme. Thwing
is an authority on
high-grade educa-
tion, and a while
hack completed a
great treatise on
the ’Vnrsity sys-
tems of several
foreign countries.
In America he is
President of the
Western Reserve
University of
Cleveland, Ohio,
and is also D.Litt.
in the Uni. of
Pennsylvania.
CHARLES
FRANKLIN
THWING, of the
U.S.A., who is
inspecting Austra-
lian Universities.
With charming naivete ex-Senator Need-
ham announces that he withdrew from the
Kalgoorlie Labor selection ballot, which was
then an easy win for 'Mahon, because (1 )
there _ was “a decided split in the Labor
ranks” and (2) “even if he had won the
ballot he mightn’t have been able to hold
the seat.” There were no other reasons, but
a man would be a hog to want more.
Adelaide Police Court has just given old
John Dawson 12 months for bagsnatcliing.
It sounds incredible, but lie earned a four
years’ sentence in England 66 years ago. (He
is 82 now, and was 16 then.) For robbery
with violence in Lancashire he got 20 years
in 1860. West.ralia gave him seven years in
1885. N. S. Wales gaoled him, under several
aliases, dozens ot' times, generally for robbery
of some kind. South Aus. has had him for
seven years, with ‘about the same number of
convictions, and is resigned to the necessity
of housing him till the end.
Gregory, M.H.R.; Chairman of the Public
Works Committee and member for the half-
million-odd square miles of Dampier, the
largest single constituency in the world, is
a good sport, though he will never see 50
again. With his name he just has to be a
cricketer, and in the match against the Vic.
State Parliament he made third-best score
for the Federal Parliament with 19 (Sena-
tor Jupp Gardiner headed the list with 40
and Sundries, M.P., was second with 23).
Besides that he used to be a good amateur
boxer, and, although only a handful, can
still use a heavy left.
Dennis Connelly has produced “The Book
of Daniel,” dealing frivolously with Arch-
bishop Mannix and Billy Hughes, and pre-
senting in line,and wash some of the little
vanities of the two stormy characters. An
idea of the humor may be gathered from one
of the first subjects, showing the Archbish.
rising before the outbreak of a jazz band on
the off-chance that it may be playing the
Welsh National Anthem. McCubbin, of
' Melbourne, is to publish the featherweight.
Macriland’s Rhodes scholar for 1920,
Willis T. Aiyey, though only 23, is. an M.A. ;
and yet he had time to serve with the M.L.
Expeditionary Force, He is an old Auck-
land Grammar boy and was in the North
Island cricket XI last season.
A Galleryman glances downward:—
Tommy lone Hand Ryan, of Essendon, president of
the British Empire League in Vie., may be a mighty
man outside the Assembly, but he is finding it more
and more difficult to get clear of the very back line
in the House. He was the only non-Labor man who
voted with Hayseed on his no-confidence amendment,
and he pleased nobody. That was proved last week
when he called for a division on an amend-
ment he moved on the Housing Bill.
All the members flocked to the Opposition side and
left him sitting alone. The count had to be declared
off, while Peacock got in the gibe that Tommy had
consolidated all parties. When Barwell (S.A.) came
to lunch at the Vic. Parliament the other day he
was asked mischievously by a group of members if
he had tripped across to entice Tommy, back to the
Adelaide Assembly. The Iryinesque Premier of the
sister State said he was not covetous. Probably he
realises that the S.A. Assembly had much the better
of the bargain when it exchanged Ryan for Watty
Hamilton, formerly of Bendigo. But if S. Aus. can
spare to Vic. a man like almost any one of the 10
it elected to the Federal Convention 23 years ago the
people will bless it.


V
MBhHMH 111
%
1
’ '
mm
■
mm
■ •■■■
■■ - ; .
■r
. rm ,
IMHH: ■ U .
' : ..': V • ife,-;-
»**
s
»* &
A ''-’V'. • •
jppx
.:.. -f
m
m
: :
'/’•S' -:■.
mm
M
mm
m.
HBfef-x «
.
wiSw
iiiiir * md - x.
IP ‘, ’; f '' If • >t?§3mmt
Jr v * ffii
HI ■ * <
n
\
v
•x
■
v' r 1 ■ • •.& -■ J
111
1 /--w?-' m ■
|M&Cff
* WKWSm
■■ -
i
«■, ~. %mm» a
. •’;
i ;
WJiM
r/
, - <Jf;
\n **// Mff'
SMOKE
T obacco
Plug Cut and Mixture
W.D. & HO. WILIS


The hat you choose for Christmas.
fdh
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
It will need to be a light cool hat, for
Summer days.
It will need to be a good hat, smart in
style and neat in finish—for Christmas is a
“dress occasion.” Choose a “Warrigal” hat,
the brand of Peapes, which guarantees to you
the purest Australian fur felt and the best
Australian workmanship.
The style illustrated is a smooth finished felt
with medium crown, brim 2§ inches, unbound
edge. Brim slightly upturned in the new
style.
Colors: Grey, Slate or Granite.
32/6
PEAPES’ PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size and color required.
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George St., Sydney.
Overall, McCray Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
OIL WELL. —Drilling Plants, Standard
and Rotary.
WATER WELL. —Drilling Plants for
depths 400 feet—4ooo feet.
BOILERS. —Loco Type Tubular, 20-30
H.P.
ENGINES. —Stationary Steam, 20-30 H.P.
ENGINES. —Portable 6 H.P.
PIPE AND CASING. —Up to 14in. diam.
AIR COMPRESSOR. —S te a m-d riven
capacity, 450 cubic feet.
ENGINE. —Portable Kerosene, 12 H.P.
Stocks of Pumping material of every
description.
“SAMSON” WINDMILL.
[l
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management f Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home ere assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
■ ably with any. Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
MINCHINBURY
“Antarctic Swell” : Macquarie Island, the
specklet that provides a hazardous roost for
penguins and sea-leopards and is supposed
to belong to Tasmania, had an innings in
the Speck Assembly the other day. Joseph
Hatch, the lively octogenarian whose gull-
white whiskers have grown almost horizon-
tal in a frantic pursuit of fortune in storm-
swept regions, is very much annoyed because
the Government declines to renew his license
to prospect for penguin and sea-lion oil on
the lonely islet. Speck Ministers excuse
themselves on the grounds that the £4O a
year received as license-fee is hardly worth
collecting, and that, though it doesn’t itself
THE ONLY REMEDY.
“But how do you expect to marry Jim if he
is in debt?"
“Well, we think it is the best thing to do.
You see, the longer he is engaged to
me the worse off he will be .”
believe the yarns that have been told about
the murderous slaughter of penguins, every
zoological, geographical and ornithological
society in the world or thereabouts has im-
plored the Tasmanian authorities to convert
the islet into a sanctuary for the few bil-
lions of strange sea-things that Hatch has
not yet boiled down for oil; further, though
the Government is quite satisfied that the
stories about the cruelty of Hatch’s penguin-
hunting methods are wholly unreliable, it is
thought just possible that the Science Con-
gress, which is to meet at Hobart in a couple
of months, may evolve something in regard
to the islet. But with Yankee ships and sea-
planes scouring all high latitudes for the
kind of grease that Hatch has been extract-
ing from Macquarie Island (two American
vessels have called there lately), the sanctu-
ary idea will require international backing
to make it effective. Tasmania certainly
can’t face the problem alone.
“Scrutin”: Voting at Vic. Assembly elec-
tions is painfully slow because of the re-
quirement that the deputy-returning-officer
shall initial each ballot-paper and write on
the back the elector’s roll number. Objection
has been taken to this system on the ground
that it infringes secrecy; but it is a check
on plural voting such as the Commonwealth
Government hasn’t
got but is dili-
gently looking for.
The British method
is consecutive num-
bering and blocks
—cheque-book style.
When £ £ Smith
challenged the elec-
tion of Downward
for Mornington 20
years ago, he com-
plained particu-
larly of the qualifi-
cation, as voters,
of two men who
were said to be
employees or pro-
teges of Down-
ward. The Elec-
tions and Qualifi-
cations Committee
was, because of the
Vic. system, able to identify and
examine these two ballot-papers,
and found that the men had both
voted for Smith and not for Down-
ward. Even David Gaunson,
counsel for the “Don’t you feel
well, young man,” lost his block
for the moment. Downward, who conducted
his own case, was confirmed as member, and
that was the last of the doc. as a legislator.
From a trustworthy London source: —
Lloyd George obtained in advance the approval of
Cardinal Bourne for the action he took against Dr.
Mannix. The other English Cardinal, Gasquet, on
arriving from Rome, was dined by Lloyd George and
Arthur Balfour. The little Welshman told his guest
he had read every book the latter had written, and
only wished someone would do for Catholic Wales
what the Cardinal had so ably done for Catholic
England. Cardinal Gasquet told this later from a
platform at Liverpool. Cardinal Bourne has not
called on Archbishop Mannix since his arrival in
English territory.
“Crab” : A Sydney firm got a shock when
it received a letter from a trusted employee
who “wanted to make a clean breast of
things,” ancl avowed his
intention of destroying
himself. The trouble was
that he did not state
specifically what his mis-
deed was, though appa-
rently it was embezzle-
ment. An auditor got to
work on the penitent
one’s books, and his em-
ployers, horrified at the
icjea, whatever his fault,
tliat a valued officer
should commit self-
slaughter, motored franti-
cally to his home, where
a tearful wife, who also
had received a wild, re-
morseful letter, explained
that she had not seen her
husband for two days.
Then the puzzled auditor
reported that he could
not find anything wrong.
The absentee was found,
with a revolver in his
possession, at _ a seaside
town. He confessed that
having been particularly
hard up he had misappro-
priated postal-notes to
the value of 16s. 6d. In
contrition he had at once
paid the monev back ; but.
reflecting morbidly on the terrible nature of
the crime, he found life insupportable and
determined to end it. The firm decided that
a rise of a pound a week would meet the
case.
* * * *
A note on pageantry :—•
The Australians have less sense of it than any
other raee on earth. The Germans had it before
the war, if they haven’t now, as witness their craze
for uniforms and the quaint .headgear of their
students’ and other clubs. It has always been a
characteristic of the Latin races, and the Yanks
contrive to tear display and color even from such
drab functions as Presidential elections and lynch-
ings. The British despise a man who wears a uni-
form unless under official duress, and they loathe and
distrust the bizarre in civilian dress. It was
Oscar Wilde’s passionate velvet jackets and his
habit of carrying lilies in public that made him
the most detested man in London 25 years ago.
Yet the British, or, anyhow, the English, have
distinct traces of the tendency which European cul-
ture shares with the Equatorial savage, and they
duly give expression to it.
One of the Sydney papers printed recently a
photograph of Douglas talking to Collins. On the
English captain’s straw hat was a tri-colored ribbon.
It may have represented the brilliant greens of the
Free Foresters or the softer hues of the Casuals,,
of which Warner was so fond. His tie was also
colored—an M.C.C. maybe, or a school, or
LET IT OUT, ANYHOW.
"You're pretty rough, Jones —told Doris I
was a bally fool.”
“By gad, old man, you don't mean to tell me
that that was a secret!”
old boys’, or ’Varsity, or county, or regimental
garment. On Collins’s head was. a rather battered
felt. His tie was a wispy thing of one color —
probably black —such as the ordinary bloke or cove
wears to his office daily. No English sportsman,
however humble or old, would have failed to cut
a more picturesque figure on suph an occasion. The
most insecure member of the Balliam Rovers C. C.
2nd XI probably has the right to sport at least
two different lots of colors, and exercises it where
possible. Few may know what his club is as he
hurries to his Saturday-afternoon game, but he is
relatively happy. After all he has a club, which is
more than some can say.
The English not only wear their club colors while
engaging in sport, but on all sorts of other occa-
sions. Thus Bond-street and Piccadilly gleam during
the London season with straw-hatted men of from
18 to 80 wearing the red; black and yellow of the
I. Zingari, and the blue and dark-red of the Brigade
of Guards. -Also, a thousand other combinations
which enable the initiate to place them immediately
in their correct social as well as sporting niche.
Who ever saw an Australian Test-player going, say,
to a picture-show or his lunch in a tie indicative of
the fact that he had represented Australia, and a
hat-ribbon showing that he was a member of the
Paddington C. C.? On the other hand, shortly after
the Prince's visit I noticed an immigrant lift-
boy at a hotel wearing a Guards tie. “I wear it,”
he informed me, “in honor of his Majesty.” An
excellent spirit from the Imperial standpoint, but
it would have cost him his job in England, where
the practice of wearing colors is taken so seriously
that those who do it without authorisation are
regarded as lower than the beasts of the field.
• * * *
Drunks’ luck and the Devil’s number were
uncannily blended in the Wokalup (W.A.)
railway accident. Before the train started
on its last journey several would-be passen-
gers in an advanced state of beer were for-
cibly ejected. When the last had been shot
off there were 13 men aboard; nine were
killed, two injured and two escaped unhurt.
“Whitehall”: The Victorian Commercial
Travellers’ Club recently called on Green-
wood, M.L.A. for Boroondara, to show cause
why he should not be relieved of his mem-
bership. He had commented in the Assembly
on the notorious fact that registered clubs
in general are about the most persistent
evaders of the liquor laws. Broadly speak-
ing, there is only one ground on which a
club member may be expelled ; namely, dis-
graceful conduct. But this is interpreted
with considerable latitude. The Carlton,
which is considered one of the most desir-
able clubs in London, contains bowled-out
co-res., unsuccessful respondents and even
members who have gone bankrupt. But if a
member joined the Labor party or became
an Asquithian Liberal the committee would
be justified in asking him to resign, and
if he demurred it might kick him out, as
the Carlton is, first and foremost, a Con-
servative institution. . Similarly a member
of the Bachelors’ who marries is obliged
under the rules to compound the offence with
a money payment, and if he failed the com-
mittee could declare him a non-member—a
provision which applies in every club to
the non-payment of subscriptions on cer-
tain dates. To revert to the Victorian club
and its political critic, there is an aspect
of the case which does not appear to have
suggested itself to either party. If the law
is being broken at the C.T.C., as Greenwood,
M.L.A., implies by his assertion that all
such clubs are “worse than pubs, worse than
wine licenses, worse even than grocers’
licenses,” then he has a duty outside Par-
liament altogether. Assuming he knows,
say, that illegal sales of intoxicating liquor
have taken place on the club premises, or
that there is frequent drunkenness there, he
should make a written complaint to the
nearest Court of Summary Jurisdiction and
have the club struck off the register. As
a convinced teetotaller this is just the sort
of action that should appeal to him. But,
then, he may have been talking through his
hat in the Assembly. It is a way many
M’s.L.A. have, and the more so for the
reason that the practice has been regarded
hitherto as quite safe.
* * * *
For the first time in history the morning’s
Melbourne papers were read in Adelaide at
lunch-time on Tuesday, November 30. De
Garis, Briggs and Howard had flown across
in 4hr. 2. r >min. Next day they went on as
far as Narretha, in Westralia, and they
were lunching in Perth on Thursday. Total
distance estimated at 2100 miles; actual
flying time lOhrs. lOmin., for the airmen
made long stops for rest and refreshment.
That is where the interest on the loans for
the “permanent and reproductive” railways
down below has one advantage: it flies
night and day, and never rests in any cir-
cumstances whatever.
* * * *
“J. Pen” : Lots of times when the bush
Australian is suspected of being just casual
it isn’t casualness at all—it is part shyness
and part that indisposition to give his friends
trouble which made people who closely
watched the Diggers in Europe call them
“the gentleman army.” A sample gentleman
has just been heard of from Wattle Vale,
Gippsland. He was found lying in a
slab barn on some hay, and covered with a
couple of old potato sacks. He was white
as death, excepting for the bloodstains
streaking his face. Later it was found that
he had a broken collar-bone, a small bone of
the leg broken, a bad wound in the head,
and his elbow-joint out. He had been nearly
killed by a falling limb when out from one
of the sawmills seeking a lost horse, and
had been in the bush in this state two
days and one night before making his way
to the farm-house, which he had reached just
before midnight the previous night. “Good
God, man, why didn’t you call us up?”
demanded the farmer. “I didn’t care to dis-
turb you people at that hour o’ night,” was
the sufferer’s simple explanation.
THE NEW TREASURE.
BINKS (discussing the new nurse): “But
what makes you think she's used to
children?”
MRS. B. : “Oh, you could tell that in a
moment by the way she glared at them
directly she saw them.”
“Dead and Alive”: Memories' of Blighty
leave crowded back the other night when
a Collins-street siren hailed me in appealing
tones with “Hello, Aussie.” Yes. She was
an immigrant!
(Continued on page 18.)
THE PROFITEER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We do detest the profiteer:
We know his cursed lust for gear ;
We see the snares he spreads around,
With no regard for holy ground;
We hate his greed that goes a-grin
To rope his fellow-mortals in;
Ilis crooked eye’s on gain intent,
He has no soul but cent.-per-cent. ;
Ilis knife is always, out to flay,
And, at a push, to smite and slay;
He knows no pity, kens no fear
Beyond the loss of mammon dear.
May mischief blight his crass career—
We do detest the profiteer!
But profits great and profits small,
Lord bless us, how we love them all!
We drag them in with placid smile
By net and noose and cunning guile;
We hold the day as wholly lost
Whereon our gainful schemes are crost;
From early' morn till late at night
We hoard our winnings close and tight,
And then lie down content to rest
And count ourselves as trebly blest
If but we add to pelf and store
The double of the day before.
And morn comes in with glory tippe l,
And even whispers silver-lipped,
And stars their golden secrets tell
In heavenly bower and milky dell,
And Wonder hails us far and sheer
And fain would wrap us close and dear,
But we... . thank God, one thing is clear
We do detest the profiteer !
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIREY.


fd
MAGIC NOTES
ife
s m
f*.
m
“The perfect encore
a Columbia Record on the Grafonola.”
ON the way home! That beautiful aria—your favorite—how it runs through
your mind! Years ago, even the man of millions could do no more than
wish for it until the time came to hear the living singer again.
But, now, this very night when you reach home —with soul athirst for the repetition of
those haunting strains—your Grafonola makes you greater in power than the potentate or
plutocrat of other days. You hear the singer again—at her very best—re-create for you
those golden moments of delight.
And what of the man who lives remote
from towns —with never a chance to
hear the monarchs of music? The
Grafonola is magical for him. It makes
of the outback station or of the farm
homestead a veritable Metropolitan
Opera House filled with artists who are
never weary and never unwilling.
At Christmas time, the Grafonola is a
host in itself. From it come the de-
lights of the highest art or the touching
themes of well-remembered melodies. At
will, you may hear the tinkle of the jes-
ter’s bells, or the racket of the jazz
which sets the happy ones awhirl in
rhythmic sympathy.
▼I
m
how the children love it
*
:■ m
■P
'
■
I ■
4
%
B
V
i Vv
-
v
i
<1
■
iHi
. •' .
i mm
SIS
mm
m
\
\
■
i


No. I—Violet,1 —Violet, whole pearl centre, 15ct. Gold,
£5/5/-
we
No. B—Sweet8 —Sweet Pea, loot. Gold, £3/10/-
Stewart Dawson’s Modern and
Artistic Jewellery for the Gift Season
Designs selected from our varied stock of Artistic Gift Jewellery.
These True to Nature” Brooches are all hand-chased in 15ct.
Gold, with green gold worked in to enhance the realistic effect.
You are cordially invited to inspect the displays in our establish-
ments.
hfd
Stewart Dawson & (q^oLtd.
,%vo Si/rJne.i/ Ststablisments \
185 -187 PITT ST. NEAR, KING ST.,
STRAND CORNER 412 GEORGE ST..
hfd
No - 7 —Flannel Flower, 15et. Gold, £3/10/-
'
Hv 6
Pansy, 15ct. Gold, Diamond centre,
“C.M.L.”: The so-called “Buster-Brown”
cut of the hair became fashionable about
1916, when women began working at muni-
tion-making machines. It was first called
the “Munitioneer” cut, and later, as a cult
of Joan of Arc became fashionable, the
“Joan of Arc” cut. In the 15tli century
is was considered most improper for a woman
not to. wear a wimple, and that partly was
why the University of Paris burnt the poor
young thing who cut her hair short and went
about in a man’s cap. Afterwards the name
“Buster-Brown,” doubtless Yankee, was
tacked on. Women have often sacrificed
their hair in war-time to propitiate an angry
god; in the last siege of Carthage they cut
it off “to make bow-strings,” as the Romans
said. But human hair would be useless for
•stringing a bow strong enough to kill a man,
and no doubt the idea of human sacrifice
entered into it a good deal; so that when the
English girls cut off their crowning glory
they were really unconsciously performing
human sacrifice to Moloch or Bel.
“Orwell”: Although I inhabit a flat,
nocturnal disturbances rarely interrupt my
slumbers. This is due to the efficient man-
agement of the landlady. “A certain broad-
mindedness,” she tells me, “is necessary in
running an establishment like this.” She
discourages the lonely female who professes
to own or earn sufficient to pay a rent of
£4 10s. a week. These mysterious spinsters
THINGS NO GENTLEMAN WOULD-
SAY.
“ I’d he so delighted if you’d go to the theatre
with me this evening?”
“Have you secured the seats?”
"Oh, come now, you’re not so heavy as all
that.”
too often have gentlemen friends to dinner,
and, after absorbing the lion’s share of the
meat and the camel’s share of the liquor,
they sometimes smash the breakables. For
these reasons they are interdicted, preference
being given to more or less married couples.
It is inadvisable to insist on marriage lines,
because often they are lost. Instead, when
a couple come to inspect rooms the behavior
of the man is carefully noted. If passion
has grown cold Don Juan is liable to depart
suddenly without paying the rent, and the
sorrowing lady’s efforts to thrust her neg-
SHE SCORED.
“There, I told you we’d miss it.”
“Well, if you knew that, what was the good
of making me hurry?”
lected affections on someone else do the
house no good. Really I didn’t know how
much I owed my landlady for my comfort
until she thus opened her heart to me.
“P. Pawnticket”: Sydney’s first “spirit-
photographer” put up his shingle at New-
town in the early ’nineties. His initial
ghost was an accident of an imperfectly-
cleaned plate, but when the lady whose photo-
graph he had taken identified the ghost
standing behind her as the spirit of her
dead son, and advertised it in the news-
papers, he decided to adapt spirit-photography
to base commercial uses. The business
was simplified by the eagerness of his clients
to recognise a smudge in the background as
Aunt Maria or Cousin Jane. Business
flowed in and the artist flowed into the city,
where, becoming bolder, he undertook to
secure portraits of deceased relatives to order.
That gave the police their opportunity.
Previously he had declined to guarantee the
identity of his ghosts; but at the instance of
a disguised John Hop he produced the coun-
terfeit presentment of the ghost of John’s
mother-in-law. John never had a mother-in-
law—and then there were police-court pro-
ceedings, and the artist and his cult melted
into obscurity.
* » * *
“Jack Carse”: Florence Young’s mission
was to brighten othier people’s lives, to
cheer them up, to make them happy. And,
when she dies, her memory, her kindly influ-
ence, her lovable personality, are to be used
to raise money to build a surgeon’s operating
theatre! Ye gods of Olympus, and, above
all, poor old Thespis! Fancy linking
Florrie Young’s name with a room where
scalpel-wielders cut and carve inanimate
humans and call it a theatre! How is it
possible to think of perpetuating the fame
and the name of a great singer like Florence
Young by building a surgery and inscribing
over the door, “Who enter here need not
abandon Hope”? How dare a coterie from
an extravagant old-fashioned hospital like the
Alfred, none of whom knew Florence Young
personally, try to bulldoze the theatre-going
public who adored her into giving money to
so fantastic a cause ? If the Alfred Hospital
needs money the Government should supply
it, not people like us, who loved this great
Australian artist and desire to prove our
reverence for her memory. There is the
Lady Northcote'orchestra worthy of the sup-
port of the music-loving public; numberless
young Australians like Florence Fawaz, for
whom travelling scholarships should be avail-
able, a civic band has yet to be created;
there are old actors and actresses always
ready to occupy a cottage at the Old Colonists’
Home; and there is the dear woman herself,
whose sculptured torso or oil-portrait should
go into our only Valhalla—-the Public Art
Gallery. Any one of these would be a suit-
able object to keep her memory alive. But
a surgeon s table, knives, lancets, sponges,
Ttrif i ’ gloves and all those horrors!
YVhat a humorless, cold-blooded lot they were
who attended the Melbourne Gaud Mayor’s
meeting!
'Ex-Dig.” : When the camp huts
<1 bo lit the railway at Borre were
•frv^o tere< * k y German shells in
IJIB, a melody-plagued Australian
had a curious escape. In Egypt
he had been with a party which
was making night hideous with
I here’s a Long, Long Trail,”
when a bull-camel went mad and
charged through the choir. .Later the
transport upon which
he was travelling was
torpedoed while the
boys were beefing out
the same old song-; and
in London the horror
was being perpetrated
in his hearing when
the first bohib of an
air-raid arrived. In
the Y. Emma at Borre
somebody put “The
Long, Long Trail” on
a gramophone ; and the
man who had come
to associate it witli
trouble departed hur-
riedly. He was ex-
citedly relating to me
his cause for leaving,
when a shell knocked
the side of the hut to
pieces. A couple of
weeks later the ditty-
dogged warrior got his
“issue,” which at first
sight seemed worse
than it turned out to
be. “I bet some
blighter wa s hum-
ming that chune,” he
said bitterly.
“Audio”: I am not a solitary toper, and
the shrinkage of liquor in the bottle was
far too rapid to be blamed to evaporation.
A little thickness in the morning greeting
of my char-lady roused my suspicions. With
evil thoughts regarding her honesty and
sobriety I marked the height of the liquor
and fastened to the bottle a label inscribed
“Not for Char-ladies,” planting it at the
bottom of a drawer under three layers of
linen. That evening Simkins dropped in
and I produced the bottle. The whisky-line
had sunk, and scrawled in pencil under my
inscription was this : .“Your no gentleman to
suspec an ard working woman.”
# * * *
“Skyrider”: School-kids haven’t a mon-
opoly of “howlers.” At a N. S. Wales
country hospital the probationers recently sat
for their entrance examination, and several
were floored by the question “What is a diplo-
mat?” One girl said a diplomat was a
local preacher. A second was just as cer-
tain that he was a person who had taken a
diploma. A third put him down as a poli-
tician. “The Irish,” she wrote in a specimen
sentence, “are a diplomatic people.” Miss
Pinkfrock had evidently been knitting her
little brows over a list of the Burkes,
Buckleys, Clearys, Connells, Dooleys,
Doyles, Dunns, Flannerys, Hickeys, Lough-
lins, McGirrs, McKells, McTiernans, Mina-
hans, Murphys, O’Briens, O’Hallorans,
O’Hearns. Scullys and Swineys who have
induced the Saxon oppressor to hand over his
control of the N. S. Wales Labor party.
* * * *
“McNorth”: When I hear of white girls
dropping into Chinatown, and such-like queer
problems being set for us, I always think
of a strange white man who blew into
Thursday Island some years ago. He was
young, clear-eyed and well-built, and dressed
in a dilapidated pair of trousers, a waist-
belt of untanned crocodile hide and the
remains of a sleeveless woollen singlet.
About his biceps were Binghi circlets of
woven grass. The skin of his arms, chest
and feet was sunburned to the color of an
old penny, and his hair hung in. a matted
tangle to his shoulders. For some years
he had been working on an out-station of
one of the enormous cattle-runs on the other
side of the Gulf of Carpentaria, with only
a tribe of abos. for company and the near-
est white man a week’s journey away in fine
weather. At the beginning of a wet season
that became unduly prolonged he lost his :
hat in a flooded river, and before oppor-
tunity came to secure another his hair, had
grown long and he was accustomed to doing
without artificial head-covering. He also
found that boots were more or less unneces-
sary, and that the importance of white-
man tucker was considerably over-rated. In
the end he “went native” altogether. Then
one day on the coast, when he ran across
a b§che-de-mer vessel, a sudden desire came
to him to see white-man habitation again,
and he negotiated a passage. For a couple
of months he worked as a wharf-lumper on
Thursday Island, mixing with his fellows
aqd living more or less like a white man ;
but, though he had a haircut, he never aban-
doned the Binghi arm-circlets or wore boots.
Then as casually as he had come he took
passage in a cutter that was heading for the
Territory shores of the Gulf, and not to
the writer’s knowledge has he shown up
since.
* * » *
“Steve Hart”: Charity gets some queer
gifts. Here’s one. Every shearing at Cai-
warra, in far-out Hungerford (N.S.W.), the
men sell the right to run a two-up school,
and the proceeds are divided between the
Cunnamulla and Bourke hospitals.
* * * *
“G.C.1).” : In the adventures of the excel-
lent Paul Beck the art of robbing pillar-
boxes (B. 18/11/’2O) is most adequately
described. You don’t blow them up, burst
’em open, or use instruments. You simply
insert a small net (supported by silk threads
of the right color and therefore practically
invisible) and then stroll around later and
collect the haul. I offer this hint to any
enterprising criminal for what it is worth —
on a 50-50 basis.
“Snell”: There is to be a wedding soon
in one of the remoter suburbs of Melbourne.
In spite of many vicissitudes and stern
paternal opposition, John has achieved his
object, and is about to marry the girl. Anne’s
pa, reputed to be well-off', lives in an old-
fashioned house surrounded by a big, swarm-
ing garden, which in turn is surrounded by
tall fir-trees. The garden was frequently
used by John and Anne as a rendezvous. If
Anne’s pa knew that John was in the vicin-
ity, he saw red and talked manslaughter,
and once actually rushed him with a musket
that had been in the family since Waterloo.
At no price would he hear of John as a
son-in-law, and he even assaulted the
young man in public with no more provo-
cation than his own thoughts provided. Then
came the night when John and a man col-
lided in the garden. The hour was latish,
the night dark, and the fight that ensued
was for life. After flattening much shrub-
bery, John oiited his opponent, who when
help arrived was found to have a kit of
house-breaking tools in his possession. The
police took the criminal over, Anne’s family
took John to its heart, and Anne’s father
admitted that the hero of the hour had in
all likelihood saved their lives. As for John
he kept it a dark secret that throughout the
fight he had fondly believed that the man he
was battering was Anne’s pa.
FASCINATING.
“But I wouldn’t think working in a ware-
house could he very interesting .”
“Oh, hut isn’t it! Would you believe it, I
know what ties are worn in London
months before they arrive here!”
“My husband has now all the land he
requires, thank you; he was buried in M
Cemetery a few months ago.” This was
the message that the widow of a Billjim sent
to the Vic. Lands Department in reply to an
intimation that it was now possible for the ex-
Digger to get a block in the district he
fancied most when he applied last. * The
tinge of bitterness in the widow’s tone made
the officers feel a trifle uncomfortable, and
they wondered whether it wouldn't have been
possible to have hurried up and given him
at least a Moses-like glimpse of the promised
land. » .
A RHYME OF COOL DESIRES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sun has baked the roses brown,
The world is full of butterflies,
Flake by slow flake the bark falls down;
But somewhere weedy mermaids drown
Cool sailors into Paradise.
The water-carts go round the street
And splash a momentary mud.
The languid drag of heavy feet
Grinds curses from the pavement’s heat;
The sunset sky is red .as blood.
But somewhere penguins roost on ice
And large white bears with frosted paws
Demand a sun at any price,
While we sit waiting for a slice
Of their still darkness ere it thaws.
The maddened earth goes round and round
And frost and fire can never mix;
But, hot or cold, men chase a pound
From pole to tropics with a sound
Like hailstones dropped on burning bricks.
I think, for men, this may be ivi se 1
The pound, when caught, can buy me ease.
Blessed is she who simply lies
And lets a man with lustrous eyes
Fan her to slumber under trees.
Behold the mild domestic cat!
She does not toil, she does not spin,
She wears no stays, she needs no hat;
Yet can she yawn upon the mat
Like Solomon in all his sin.
I want to eat a long ice-cream
From now until the first of May,
Read tales of happy love and dream
Beside a green enchanted stream
That murmurs every thought away.
So let the sun go up and down,
The roses fade, the cabbage blow;
The clatter of a pale half-crown "■
May stir a burning bliss in town,
But I shall be too cool to know.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


Indispensable to All Stockowners.
m
%'S
&
%
r
r
r
Ml
%
rz>
TOr'i.yw.
o
TTS
ME
3
sy^
v \y - x
A
t
*
m
m
<Wrti
/AEGGITT L TD
PARRAMATTA
mm
w
w
m
V *o
mmmm
Every progressive stockowner admits that although natural pastures stimulate
milk yield they will not maintain continuous production at its maximum.
Concentrates are indispensable for best results.
All successful feeding is based on supplying the animals’ needs in proper
proportion.
An excess allowance of any one food is not conducive to best results.
Animals, to thrive, must be supplied with the correctly-balanced ration, which
will furnish bodily needs and surplus for production.
@ Specialised Stock Foods are formulated on that principle and contain the
requisite proportion of protein, carbohydrates and fats for the particular need for
which they are sold.
Used as directed @ Specialised Foods, measured by* results, are cheaper.
Write for Booklet on Scientific Feeding to Stock Foods Department A.
Agents: Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourlce Street, Melbourne; Messrs. R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane;
Messrs. Clarkson, Ltd., Rundle Street, Adelaide; Messrs. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., King Street, Perth; Messrs. F. W. Heritage A Co.,
Ltd., Hobart and Launceston; The National Dairy Association of N.Z., Ltd., Panama Street, 'Wellington, N.Z.; Messrs. Johnston <£• Co.,
Ltd., Featherston Street, Wellington, N.Z.
GGI
yUSEEDOiMEH.
Ofieboyon the bag
guarantees quality ”
e
HEAD OFFICE 26 KING ST SYDNEY (Vforks• Parramatta)
— .. -mm.. ■ i —WIIIirNMiIiUMWIMHI 111 Wlllilil HJ I IIMII II I I Will l.< >fl n IiWH i ■m■ » n . —■ ■
Manufacturers of Linseed Oil, Cake, Meal and Specialised Stock Foods.
GGITTS
UNSEEDOILMFH
ml
ttEGGITT L T .°
\ PARRAMATTA
°/Ae hoy on the
qu&yzmtees cfu&lity


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
• SBO-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Hotel
fdh
r TARIFF: \
15/- per Day
8/6 Bed & Breakfast
C.R.Kenr*
Ppoppiefop
45 bwanston 5h
Melbourne j
King Georg
*
THE TOP NOTCH’scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
WHISKY
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Bouragi”: “Bureri,” who traverses my
remarks about the Trobriand Islands (B. 18/11/’2O),
had better turn up the reports of Governors Macgregor
and Le Hunte on his friends the Greeks. Old
Sir Wully’s opinion of the descendants of Pericles is
contained in more than one of his reports and is
calculated to penetrate even a Greek hide. Le
Hunte in his turn put in some scathing memoranda
on their habits. Twelve years ago the Greeks had
got such a command of the lapi-lapi pearl trade in
the Trobriands that no one else had Buckley’s chance
of buying a “stone” from a native. (It should be
said the Trobriand pearls. are got from a sea-mussel
by the natives, who sell to the traders.) I wrote, by
the way, that the Trobriands produced, not “the
finest” pearls, but some of the finest “colored”
pearls. A buyer came every year from Paris to
Samarai expressly to get the black and rare pink
“stones.” When “Bureri” says I libel the Greeks
by attributing the spread of venereal in the Tro-
briands to them, he is wider from the mark than
ever. The “libels” cast on them by Macgregor, Le •
Hunte and Captain Barton in this connection leave
anything I have said “down the course.” Barton
thought it neeesf-pry to appoint Dr. Bellamy, pre-
viously an A.R.M. with me in the Northern Division,
to specially cope with the very serious conditions
prevailing in the islands in 1908. I took particular
notice of Bellamy’s reports in the year or two follow-
ing his appointment, and they told an appalling
story. If, as “Bureri” says, there is now only one
case of venereal in the Trobriands and that imported,
I must congratulate my. old colleague on the wonder-
ful success of his labors.
* * # *
“S. Granger” : I have managed to perform
some fool tricks in my time, hut the best stunt I
ever put up on myself was when out after young
cockatoos, in company with a couple of other robbers.
We had a rope, one end of which we slung over the
limb containing the nest, the other end being looped
to hold the foot of the idiot proposing to go up. I
was the idiot. It’s an easy matter for anyone to
haul himself up in this manner, provided he loops
his ai'm round the end to which his weight is
attached. I omitted this precaution, in my eagerness
to be “up and doing,” and gave a mighty heave on
the hauling end of the rope. The result was the
swiftest reversal of extremities ever witnessed. My
heels shot up, and my head concussed with the
universe. The display of fireworks I saw made the
recent victory celebrations look like two penn’orth
of Chinese crackers. My head is sore yet, and I hate
cockatoos.
» * * *
“Billy T.”: Bushmen of long experience
contend that they know an old swagman wherever
they see him, and no matter into what sphere of life
he has passed. The bluey leaves its marks on a man
in a certain forward slope of the body that is not
quite a stoop, certain ways of carrying the arms, and
a peculiarity of gait that might be called the swag-
man’s glide—a deliberate setting down of the feet,
and a sidewise purchase on mother earth for the
next stride. Old associations with bluey are hard
to shake off. I knew a man who inherited a hotel in
Carlton after showing Matilda all over the habitable
parts of the Commonwealth during 30 years. He
seemed utterly miserable without the familiar roll,
and used to take a daily constitutional with the
white man’s burden.
“Wandi”: While travelling through the
Dawson country (Q.) in a dry summer I found in the
beds of sandy creeks many large excavations made by
brumbies and kangaroos after water, which they
could locate, I suppose, by smell. The brumby made
a hole big enough to bury himself in. The kangaroo
had a lot of trouble from falling sand, as he rooted
from one side with his fore-paws, while his long
hind toes were inconveniently pressing on left and
right. The dingo, if he had to go far for a soakage,
made a burrow, which his body filled as he went
down. But Binghi was the best at tapping a soak-
age. To save time and energy he prospected by
working a pointed stick down into the sand. If
there were reeds handy he could sometimes get a
drink from the tiny bore without the trouble of
rooting.
* * * *
“Tix” : Pulled up for the night at the camp
of an old boundarv-rider in “the Corner” (far nor’-
west N. S. Wales). He was hungry for something
to read. The overseer, who brought him his mail,
had failed him. “How long since you’ve had a
mail?” I asked him. He thought a moment. “Four
Bulletins ago,” he growled.
* * * *
“Pick”: In the highland streamlets and
ponds of the N. S. Wales southern tablelands, under
culverts and in shaded nooks, lives a hideously
grotesque toad. Greenish black, with a loosely-
sagging form that resembles a daub of wet mud, he
has a leery, lazily-winking eye, a vast, protruding
mouth and a facial expression of comic ugliness that
would make a comedian’s fortune. Bushmen call
him the knocking bell. ‘When there are several of
them together their sonorous notes give a singularly
correct imitation of distant bullock-bells. Many a
weary teamster in search of his strayed bullocks has
turned to listen again when the music of the
knocking-bell toads has reached his ear.
* * * *
“Delhi”: Brumbies are not considered
reliable, as a rule, and are reckoned short-tempered.
But for many years an ex-brumby was tacked on
to loads of ore at Hillgrove (N.S.W.), and never
once refused to work, and often he had an uphill
pull and half a ton behind him. When this moke
reached the age of 32 he was “retired,” and was
in his 35th year when the drought proved too heavy
for him.
to , E 1 J B ' 11/X }, /2 V takes me
telesrony which ”h, S T law of
telegony which, buefly put, lays down that a female
by an ° ther varl< f- v of hel ' own species
is liable subsequently to produce offspring with the
“r r- ° r J? “PWtor. no matter
. <<r , 1C ’^ e *• e later sires may be.
As Exul says, the truth of such a law is open to
ce ae. o is the truth of any law, including
A CORN IS UMAR'S EPIC.
“There's only wan thing in this world that'll
bate a good old pasty, m’son."
“Wha's ’e?"
“A good old 'ymn."
Galileo’s, which is flouted by a society that maintains
an office- with a secretary and staff in London to
uphold its belief that the world is flat and the sky
Omar’s “inverted bowl.” Nevertheless, men of
practical experience who make their daily bread by
the breeding- of pure-type animals are sound believers
in telegony, though they don’t always refer to it by
that name. Let “Exul” give, say, 50 guineas for a
prize Pom. bitch, and, after he has mated her with a
fox-terrier, try to sell her back to any kennel-club
fancier for 505., first telling him what has been done.
A fox-terrier bitch of high degree was brought from
Melbourne to Queensland years ago to start a stud
strain. An accidental interview with a retriever re-
sulted in a litter of crossbred pups. For two or
three seasons she was put to pure-strain foxies, but
every litter showed in whole or part the disastrous
results of that first love. One of the great objec-
tions of the Southern white of the U.S.A. to the
miscegenation of white women and the negro is
founded on his practical experience of the working
of this law of telegony. There is always the ghastly
possibility that the impregnation of a white woman
by a negro may result in the appearance of a dis-
colored infant three or four generations later in a
family that has never even seen a son of Ham. So
the Southern States, notably Alabama, have put laws
against miscegenation on their Statute books which
even a Hun corddn’t improve on for frightfulness.
* * * *
“Wandi” : “Hoof ancl Horn” (B. 4/11/’2O)
asks for a dressing to apply around the eyes of stud
cattle to relieve them of the fly pest. Let him try
the patent axle-grease, rubbed round the eyes every
couple of days, or so. In the North-West I used to
see men rub olive oil over their faces before riding
out. on the run in the morning, and those chaps never
had bung eyes.
* * * *
“A.C.R.” : A bullocky, one Nobbie Murphy
(aged), Big. Scrub, N. S. Wales Northern Rivers,
bad a prad called Paddy, who when not being ridden
was tied behind the waggon. Sometimes Paddy
slipped his cable, and in that case he would follow
on later. One day he was a bit backward in putting
in an appearance round the bend. Murphy stopped
his hornies and went back to the turn to see what
had happened. Not seeing Paddy he scratched his
top piece in deep thought and at once grasped the
situation. “ ’Oly Moses, Paddy, yer rascal,” he
Said —“why, I’m ridin’ yeri”
* * * *
“Orwell”: Trudging across the Linden
goldfield (W.A.) I struck the camp - of a lonely
prospector about sundown. I had been on kangaroo
diet for months, so accepted his invitation to tinned
beef and a doss for the night without hesitation. While
enjoying the feed I became conscious of eyes fixed on
me, and looking up saw an old horse watching every
mouthful I took with the greedy gaze of a dog. The
old man threw a piece of beef, which it caught in its
teeth and chewed like a cow enjoying its cud. The
prospector told me his horse had acquired such a
taste for meat that it turned up its nose at horse-
feed when the more solid diet was obtainable.
“Bullfrog”: The pa-sparrow alluded to by
“Alex.” (B. 18/11/’2O) must have been having words
with the missus, and have cleared out to show her
that he was not going to be dictated to. If he kept
off the job of feeding the family for half an hour, as
“Alex.” says he did, the chances are that he was either
attending a workers’ union meeting or misbehaving
himself with some sparrow flapper. I’ve had these
birds building about, the farm for years, and have
always seen the old man doing
his full share towards pack-
ing the youngsters with grub.
Now aijd then dad would go
off on a bender with some
kindred spirits, but his con-
science always brought him
up with a sharp turn, and he
returned with an extra-big
grub as a peace offering. Ma
didn’t used to waste much
time over ragging him, either;
if he wasn’t there when he
was wanted she just went
ahead and did double work.
I dare say she made him pay
for his backsliding when she
got him alone after the kids
were asleep for the night.
Both birds work on the home
building, and while that’s
being done they don’t waste
time on picture-shows. Any-
thing that comes in their way
is collected and carried up to
the selected spot. I’ve found
nests that were lined with
human hair, evidently col-
lected from the back yard
after the monthly haircut.
Dad’s whiskers were cut off
once after lying fallow for 12
months, and were in great
demand. In one nest I pulled
out of the spouting I recog-
nised Dad’s whiskers, Mum’s
and Betty’s red locks, and
my own short-length wiry
thatch. I pulled three nests out of that spouting, by
the way, before the sparrows took the hint.
“Dolphin” : The sugar ’possum that “Mac”
found on the Bellinger River (B. 18/11/’2O) isn’t
the only Australian beastie that builds a nest like
a bird. The ringtail ’possum of the Speck regularly
builds a nest to camp in, quite unlike his bush-
tailed brothers, who have not got beyond the hollow-
tree stage. I have seen dozens of their nests in
a comparatively small patch of tea-tree, neatly-built
circular affairs in which they curl up during the day.
* * * *
“Wellington”: The sangfroid of the Maori
in a tight corner is illustrated by a yarn they
tell in the Gisborne district. A small runholder
had cut out 20 of his primest wethers and put
them in a paddock near the homestead to fatten up.
After a few days he found there were only 19; about
a week later there were but 18, and in six weeks
nearly half his mutton had vanished. He had reason
to suspect his Maori rouseabout of making away
with his wethers, but could not -find any proof until
early one morning, when, riding down a fence, he
found Henare clambering over the wire with a wether
on his back. Pulling up he yelled out, “Hey, you,
what are you doing with that sheep ?” “Who got
TOO MUCH LIKE WORK.
“So yer've left the pickle factory. It was
a long way ter walk, wasn't it?"
“Well, I didn't mind so much; but me
'usban' couldn't stand walking so far
on me pay-day."
te prurry sheep?” replied Henare in astonishment—
“l no see te sheep ’bout here.” “Then, what’s
that on your back?” roared the maddened sheepman.
The Maori slowly looked over his shoulder and then
said in a wonderstruck tone, “Hurro, sheepie! How
you get dere?”
(Continued on page 22.)
BINDIN’.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the roosters start their crowin’ at the sun’s
red nose just showin’
Through the mist that haunts the dawnin’ like the
fag-end of a dream,
Ere the earth, through daylight tearin’, runs too
hot upon its bearin’,
I begin my farmer’s workin’ day, an’ yoke my
binder team.
Men who live by talkee-talkee make a joke of
simple cocky,
Just because he doesn’t oil his hair or manicure
his nails.
They make out to be great scholars just because
they wear high collars,
An’ can play some cunnin’ lawyer tricks and still
keep out of gaols.
Fl ing them here! I’ll stop their sneerin’ ; modern
farrpin’s engineerin’,
High finance an’ economics, work an’ science all in
one;
Ve’re the men who feed the nations, keepin’ coots
in situations
Just to tally up what we produce, an’ all they
make is fun.
Never mind, there’s no use whinin’! There’s the
teeth like bayonets shinin’,
Fixed for fightin’ in goodwill to men, for peaceful
viet’rie3 keen.
Hear the pitman make them rattle, as they start
the bloodless battle
That will rage among the crop all day till night
• stops the machine.
THE WRONG LIQUID.
JONES : “Hullo, Brown, going for the milk?
Is your wife away, too?"
BROWN : “What the dickens would I want
with milk if my wife was away?”
Every crank and lever’s goin’. Look behind! the
sheaves we’re throwin’
Stand like soldiers where the stookers set them
straight upon their feet.
So they’ve stood in hist’ry’s pages, peace recruits
through all the ages,
The Supports an’ General Staff of Life, the farmers’
product—Wheat!
Turn your instruments for killin’ into ploughs for
peaceful tillin’,
Beat your cannons into binders, an’ make strip-
pers of your tanks.
You can keep your bands and banners, give us bolts
an’ nuts an’ spanners,
An’ we’ll grow the grain an’ clean it while there’s
strength to turn the cranks.
Yes, my heart’s as light’s a feather, makin’ hay in
sunny weather,
Bindin’, stookin’, tossin’, cartin’, stackin’, thatchin’
all the day.
Months of toil an’ labor grindin’ are forgotten when
I’m bindin’.
An’ I look with pride along the ranks of sheaves
of golden hay.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
STRIPPER.


PUMPING OUTFIT.
IT’S A BONZER!
Year After Year Again and Again You
Hear THESE THREE WORDS Applied to
The "Little Wonder”
From the Four Corners of Australia!
Landsborough, VICTORIA,
l/11/’2O.
“I must tell you the ‘Little Wonder’ Engine is a BONZER. I
have shorn 20,000 sheep with it without any lost time, and it hasn’t
cost me 6d. for repairs.”
(Signed) WALTER LESLIE.
SHEARING OUTFIT.
It is 28.H.P., is fitted with high-tension Bosch Magneto, float feed carburetter and latest improvements.
It pumps water, shears sheep, saws wood, sprays sheep and orchards, cuts chaff and does other jobs.
The “Little Wonder” Engine is not an Expenditure—it is an Investment!
So say over 2000 owners of ‘'Little Wonders’ throughout Australia.
The engine can be supplied alone or complete with any of the outfits illustrated here.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR CATALOGUE AND FULL PARTICULARS.
£
m
/
V;
i
M
~*F?!rs
SPRAYING OUTFIT.
SAWING
OUTFIT.
fd
CHAFFCUTTING
OUTFIT.
Cooper Engineering' Co. Ltd.,
Brisbane;
G. P
134 Sussex Street, Sydney.
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
N Z. Loan and M. A. Co., Ltd., Rockhampton, Townsville, Hughenden; Australasian Imp. &H. F. Co., Adelaide;
. Harris, Scarfe & Co., Perth; Buchanan, Davidson, Ltd., Hobart; Hart & Sons, Launceston.
CHRISTMAS
GO HAND
and MUSIC
IN HAND.
SSB
!» ■ >:' •
- i
■>> ■■.
mmwmmmm
it
Wm
j ' i
Smim:
?''%X-%yfrXeft
’ . ■ Ss:
S*#si£ss
IfMP
IP
t& -jy '
WM-> ■'' ________
$5&»
iSP:«:
li
:/:
¥fz„,
sssssssessfe
m S:SS
li
m;
iillP:
Write now for a catalogue and
particulars of our easy terms.
You can then arrange to have
the player piano in your home
in time for Christmas.
/\/i AKE music your Christmas Gift to the home
—buy a
BEHNING
PLAYER PIANO
and every member of the family will be able to
both play and enjoy it.
The tone of the Behning is a constant source of
delight to the trained musician, and the player
action is so free from complicated mechanism
that it is easily operated by the novice.
The easiest way to secure a
Behning is to exchange your
piano (we will allow you its
full value) and the balance
spread over a period that will
allow for its purchase by
moderate monthly payments.
(JcP
wuuvn
AT
TOOWOOMBA UJMORI.
Tinmi n i mu


PERMANENT
Trustee Company of N.S.W. Ltd.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
TRUSTEE—-EXECUTOR ATTORNEY AGENT.
Capital: Subscribed, £1,000,000; Paid-up, £1 10,000; Uncalled, £890,000.
The Company does not make Corpus Commission charge until
estate becomes distributable. This practice (unique to the
Permanent Trustee Company) frequently results in a saving of
income sufficient to defray the charge.
* D %v@ct/Ov}§ *
ALFRED G. MILSON. F. N. YARWOOD O. E. FRIEND.
JAMES MOIR. (Chairman). THOS. BUCKLAND
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
J. W. Barnes, Assistant Manager. Write for Literature
O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
25
* * * *
“Ewa”: Queer bathrooms? Met one at
Ayr (N.Q.) when it was badly needed. It was a
bogey hole at the back of the pub, and the apple of
the publican's eye. Each new visitor knew all about it
before he had passed the threshold. I strolled down
to it the first morning I was there, only to find it
full of girl. At first it looked as if the thing was
done continental style, but a few screams dispelled
that idea. The publican informed me that the ladies
always bathed first. When they had finished the
puddle looked much like soup—but I was off soup.
Another queer bath I struck on the Ravenswood-road.
An old lady kept a few' fowls, goats, etc., and snared
very occasional half-crowns from travellers with the
bath. A notice on the door -read: “Automatick
Bath, 2s. 6d.” It started automatically as soon as I
was under it, and didn’t last a minute. I was enjoy-
ing it when it stopped. I looked up. The old girl
was sitting on the perch. “Ye can only have one
bucket, mister,” she said.
HE BILLED IT BETTER THAN HE
KNEW.
RETURNED DIGGER ( whose jerry-built three-
rooms-and-a-kitchen has collapsed at
the first wind-storm ): “I stuck the
name ‘Pozieres’ on it; and, by the hokey-
smoke, it's beginning to look like it.”
“E.L.C.”: Re “Moonie’s” inquiry for a
white foa] (B. 11/11 /’2O). Grey horses are invariably
black to start with, but later on an abnormal condi-
tion called melanosis is developed, which causes the
pigmentation that would normally color the hair to
HE BELIEVED IN PHONETICS.
OVERSEER (addressing envelope for abo.) : “How you spell that name, Jacky?”
JACKY: "Oh, neber mind about spell him, boss —you just write him down.”
be absorbed by the tissues under the skin, thus leav-
ing the hair white. Let “Moonie” next time he
meets a dead grey prad open up the hide. He will
find the color there all right.
Opossums, which have been running riot
ail over S. Aus., even into the suburbs of Adelaide,
had their total protection removed for the three
winter months of this year. The consequent slaugh-
ter was immediate and great, and, as it is thought
that they have been thinned out enough, the little
fellows have been restored to the “protected all the
year round” schedule.
* * * *
“Audio”: While camped outside Mount
Morgans (W.A.) I was witness to the Trojan War,
Part 11. Some hours after dark one Wednesday night
I was awakened by the bark-
ing of my dog. Rushing out
from the gunyah I saw a
black making off to join a
party disappearing in the dis-
tance. From the direction
they had come I judged them
to be members of the Laver-
ton tribe on their way to
adjust some political differ-
ence with their enemies, the
Leonora blacks, some 40 miles
off. I was reminded of the
incident the following Friday
while having a mid-day
snack. The party, numbering
about 80, passed on their way
home. In the centre of the
procession two warriors sup-
ported on their shoulders the
extremities of a small sap-
ling hanging from which by
the wrists and ankles was a
fat gin. I found later that
she had been stolen by one of
the Leonoras. The husband
had gathered together some
warriors, and they were lucky
enough to catch their enemies
digesting a heavy meal.
Regaining the dusky Helen, they killed five male
relatives of the tertium quid to express disapproval
of his conduct, and then lit out for home and mother.
* * * *
“Tix”: The wedding took place at Tiboo-
burra (N.S.W’.). At the feast that followed a few
speeches were given, including one by the mother, of
the bride. With a proud look in her eye mamma
rose and jerked out: “Well, thank Gaud, Hemma
didn’t marry a toff.” P.S. —Ma spoke the truth.
“Audio”: When I got off the coach at
Dungaree the cricket match between Five Mile and
the local team was finishing and a crowd of us, about
40 strong, repaired to the pub. One man started
proceedings by shouting for the mob. Another re-
peated the performance, and then a third. Being a
stranger in the district I thought it was up to me.
There was a pause after this drink till someone
suggested “a bob in.” The dice were rattled and I
threw 18. Just then a gang of surveyors and chain-
men came in and, being the winner, I shouted for
them. It left me five bob out of pocket after my
win. I felt like a philanthropist until the bloke
next to me confided that the* other three entertainers
were the publicans from Five Mile, Dead Dog and
Bummers’ Creek. That’s the custom of the country
—a bung must shout for the crowd whenever he
finds himself in a grog-shop not his own.
* * * »
“Merops”: “Horn and Hoof” (B.
4/11/’2O) asks for something to keep flies off the
eyes of prize stock. In 1884 I was out between the
Warrego and Paroo rivers, and the flies were in
millions —they had made the eyelids of all the
horses in our team of-16 raw. We had with us a box
of Holloway’s Ointment. This we smeared round the
eyes, and we found it kept the flies away all day.
After that a pot was carried in the waggon locker
and used every morning with success. We applied
Stockholm tar to any sores or cuts on the horses’
bodies, and that also kept the pest off.
* * * *
Laloki”: The methods of the explorers
of Papua in gaining the confidence and friendship
of the wild tribes have had some weird and humor-
ous aspects. D’Albertis, the explorer of the Fly
River, had a few stunts that were nearly always
successful. He would attract a group of natives
around him, and then set fire -to some oil which he
had poured on to a basin of water. The amazed
savages thought him a wizard to be able “to make
water burn. Another trick was the exploding of
previously planted miniature mines by pointing his
finger at the spots, the explosion proving to the
ignorant people the god-lilce character of the white
stranger. A few sleight-of-hand tricks also materi-
ally added to his popularity, as did also his habit
of kissing the men and women he went amongst.
When attack threatened, a blast from the steam
whistle of his launch or a sudden clamor with a
bell often drove off the blood-hungry horde. Mac-
gregor relied on a green branch as a peace-token,
and banked on the friendship of the old people to
cement amicable relations. A wise distribution of
“trade” mirrors, turkey twill, knives and, in the
interior of the island, coarse salt, paved the way
for confidence and goodwill. On the Purari River
more strenuous methods were insisted on by the
chief of the newly-discovered tribe. He counted
heads and found the newcomers were outnumbered
b} r the thousands of bow-men at his command. “Let’s
fight this matter out,” he remarked. The canny old
Scot accommodated him. A lasting peace was made
just as soon as, the smoke from the Sniders blew
over, and Mac and his officers on subsequent visits
were honored guests of that tribe. The sporting
chief ever after remained a loyal friend of Law
and Order, and died a decade back on the bosom of
his 75 wives, a much-lamented champion of the
white man. “Making fire” (lighting a match) was
a reliable means of attracting the attention of the
suspicious natives, who, in the excitement of this
wonderful feat, forgot their primeval instinct to
club the white visitors. Mat Moreton once opened
up peaceful relations with a tribe on Goodenough
Island by a spirited rendering of “Father O’Flynn.”
As Mat explained, “My singing would take the fight
out of a tiger!” Chalmers, the Grand Old Man
missionary, who penetrated into the stamping grounds
of the cruel cannibals of the Gulf and Delta regions,
relied on the inquisitive nature of these people to
open up friendly relations. But he, like all the
other members of that gallant company of heroic
explorers, risked his life each time lie went into
the unknown parts of the island. And Fate was
unkind to him, for he fell a victim to the blood-
lust of the Goaribari Island cannibals when his years
were nigh on to the full number set down by the
Psalmist. He had adventured too often. When the
history of Papua comes to be written, the story of
the young Australian who made peace between two
warring tribes by means of a sparklet syphon, and
the tale of Macgregor’s Waterbury watch, which
caused the arrival of Law and Order in Collingwood
Bay, will provide interesting reading.
* * * *
“Six and Eight” : I wrote recently for the
price of a garden roller. The city bandits demanded
£l2, with menaces of asking more if the thing was
not ordered at once. I decided to keep down the
high cost of gardening- by making the machine myself.
Six bob bought a bag of cement, twelve a sheet of
plain iron three feet by ten, and a round iron bar
one inch in diameter by 44 inches long cost 10s,
Some fencing-Wire was borrowed from near-by. The
iron sheet I bent into a cylinder; tied it round with
the wire, and set it upright on a board. Next I made
the iron bar the axis of the cylinder by passing
one end four inches through the board on which the
cylinder stood and the other through the middle of a
piece of timber which was so placed across the top of
the cylinder as to form a diameter of it. Then I
filled the cylinder with concrete made of three parts
fine , sand to one of Portland cement. When the con-
crete had set hard I unfastened the wire securing the
iron sheet, and turned the roller out at a cost of less
than 30s. To make a handle a few bolts and some
pieces of old wood did the trick. No longer do the
dreary Sabbath hours hang wearily. To the scandal
of my godly neighbors—-especially those “in trade”
—they are spent, making my lawn as level as a bowl-
ing green.
* * ,* *
“Silas Snell”: The report had got about
that Prime Minister Hughes was to visit Dewlap in
connection with some projected irrigation scheme.
In point of fact, it was a much less significant
State politician who was to drop in in the
course of a motor gadabout, but there remains in
the country only a vague idea of the respective pro-
vinces of State and Federal Parliaments. Anyhow,
a small, shrunken, angry man was seen about the
Dewlap Family Hotel, and the leader of the Dewlap
brass band, co-operating with several leading citizens
who hoped to derive advantage from the projected
irrigation, set out to serenade the great little man.
The serenade began at nine, and continued till 10
without provoking any response from the room
W.M.H. was supposed to occupy. Here the valiant
band, having refreshed with beer, bucked in with
renewed enthusiasm. Then suddenly up shot the
AN EXCHANGE OF COMPLIMENTS.
PARSON : “You drunken beast!”
DRUNKEN BEAST: “Gam! You're jealous!”
window,; and out flew practically every movable
article a bedroom contains, accompanied by a terrific
outburst of the kind of language with which bullocks
are persuaded to assist in our great primary in-
dustries. The leader of the band was hit with a
hassock, and knocked out. lie recovered as the
slanguage was sputtering out. “There,” said he
falteringly—“there, didn’t I tell you it was Hughes?”
Next day a small commercial traveller for a Mel-
bourne jewellery firm went fiercely about his business
in Dewlap, wearing a conspicuous label printed in
red on a white ribbon: “I am not Billy Hughes!”
THE OLD COLONIAL DAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the Old Colonial Days
That are gone beyond renewing,
There were reckless deeds a-doing,
There was fighting, there was looting,
There was hanging, there was shooting,
There was tracking and pursuing—
Oh, there was no room for weaklings
In the Old Colonial Days!
Then the roads were crude and rough,
And ’twas weary work to travel
Over rut and root and gravel,
With a far-off goal to speed one,
And no ear at all to heed one,
Though a man might curse and cavil,
Crying “Murrain on the builders
Of these rude and rocky roads!”
In the grim old reckless times,
With the sun about one glowing,
There was never any knowing
What might spoil the mid-day glory,
Close the book and end the story
Of some digger, homeward going
With his belt of gold and gold-dust,
In the grim old reckless times.
For the wild men held the roads,
And, though newer times may censure
Them, they followed great Adventure
For the perils that she offered
And the prizes that she proffered,
Though at times both couch and trencher
Were but cheerless, starved and bitter,
For the wild men of the roads.
By his camp-fire, red and lone,
Through the gloom 6 of night-time burning,
Tossing ever, ever turning,
Slept the watcher as a cat sleeps,
Till the mouse comes, till the rat creeps,
Through the fretful hours discerning
In the bush dim shapes that hovered
Round his camp-fire, red and lone.
In the Old Colonial Days
There was loving, there was leaving,
There was laughing, there was grieving;
Life was much the same old bubble
Then as now, with all its trouble;
Though we go no more a-thieving
As they went, modes having altered
Since the Old Colonial Days.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


/
I
State Express cigarettes raised the
standard of cigarette quality —a standard
not reached to this day by any other.
CIGARETTES
N 9333
20 FoR 1/6
NO ADVANCE IN PRICE UNDER NEW TARIFF.
THE FAMOUS RED PACKET
9k
%
C 2
vP
ss-t
%
\3>
V*
V
v>
®°
ct
A.
o
LARGE SIZE
m


indicates strol^fh
in Perdriau Tyres
POSITIVE PROOF
■
V
is
IKSI
11
HI
. HH :
1
mm
is#
gf i ■..
m
viii
jj=
& 1111
I till
111
|i|E 4 3 m
I* mm
Mllil
i
/ HI
1 :: JF
HI
iMIHi H|
SSI
1
Hi
Hii
am
#
r
111 l
A
Hragf
'■ '
jHM
lilii iißl
BHH
MM
m
a
lilitl
I mm
flfflii::
JniijU
Ramil 1 t
gmß I *
■
M m
: .. : ,:•■
■Bn
1 Hi
iIBS
aUI
I
§2*l
~====-^
X
Smifk Julius
5f(J<J >O5
!
Mil I MMHi
: ..............
■I
■ll
■ ■ ■l■
I fl .: I
* J If Sill
HI
HHHH
■ .
■I
-
■1 JffiiiP
——
Positive proof of the quantity of rubber and
canvas in a tyre is provided by the scale test,
and the more rubber and canvas "built in”
the better the service that comes out.
Tested on the scales Perdriau Tyres are
proved to contain from 12 to 33 per cent
more rubber and canvas th,an
other leading tyres.
Compare the weights!
OBTAINABLE FROM
PERDRIAU RUBBER
CO. LTD.
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Perth
"These big , substantial, Terdriau Tyres
certainly deliver the extra service . ”
hfd
%ustraliaxv
ißres


>U
r.
Tke
Purest
Spirit
in tke
NVorld.
SCHNAP^ 6
-*«- - • '
' - 5 ,, 1
i m
m
msm
■
:
o
m
I
s
Marshall Locomobiles
Actual Figures Prove
Economical Investment.
COMPAR-
ING.
SPACE
CAPITAL
OUTLAY.
FUEL CON-
SUMPTION
(Non-
condensing).
.86 to 1.00
Saving 11 p.c.
.75 to 1.00
Saving 25 p.c.
1.15 to 1.00
(Note Saving in Fuel
Consumption).
.5 to 1.00
Saving 50 p.c.
.85 to 1.00
Saving 15 p.c.
.§8 to LOO
Saving 12 p.c.
1.00 to 1.00.
.62 to 1.00
Saving 38 p.c.
1.00 to 1.00.
FREIGHT and
INSURANCE.
Marshall Locomobiles use wood, coal or any combustible fuel, preferred for
mining plants, mills, crushing plants and power work —50 to 350 H.P.
Get particulars.
British - Australian Engineering Co. Ltd.,
National Mutual Buildings,,
Cr. Collins and Queen Streets, Melbourne.
Box 1303 G.P.0., Melbourne. , ’Phone 4031.
N.S.W. AGENTS—
AUSTRAL ENGINEERING CO., Kent Street, Sydney.
S.A. AGENTS—
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S.A.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS—
GENERAL MACHINERY & ELECTRICAL CO., Brisbane, Queensland.
11. G. WELLS
—the
historian.
♦
♦
IN TWO VOLUMES
“THE OUTLINE
OF HISTORY”
By H. G. WELLS
On his Work as first presented (in fortnightly parts) the
author made very extensive corrections, additions and
revisions—two sections were entirely rewritten.
THE WAVERLEY EDITION IS THE ONE
that INCLUDES ALL THE ALTERATIONS
This edition of Wells’ inspiring, illuminating history—
complete in two voldmes —contains a considerable
number of exclusive features. It is decidedly the
most comprehensive presentation, and is positively
THE ONLY TWO-VOLUMES EDITION
(700 pages; x 7in.).
As the Waverley set includes much that is not found
in any other edition; as it comprises 700 pages of
high-quality, distinctive paper ; as it has all the original
Horribin illustrations; as it is
THE ONLY EDITION POSSESSING 64
COLOR AND GRAVURE PLATES
(many of which were .specially painted by well-known
artists, while the balance was carefully selected by
specialists all over Europe), it is an Edition eclipsing
all others from both Educational and Artistic view-
points.
We are landing 500 sets only; you are
earnestly advised to order your set now.
They arrive shortly, but we cordially invite you to
examine our advance copy at any time.
Write for information and prospectus (mentioning
The Bulletin), with specimen pages (including plates).
Waverley Book Company,
218-222 Clarence Street, Sydney.
charged with tragedy. The formally-written
final chapter, wherein Lady Bassington waits
for the cable announcing the death of her
deplorable offspring, has a strain of venom-
ous irony after the dancing English and
frivolity of many earlier scenes. “When
William Came,” the author’s mockery
of English “patriotism,” subdued by ver-
botens after the German capture of Eng-
land, deserves to be much better known.
The novel is written in a sort of frightful
calm, but the characterisation is salted by
the writer’s contempt for his types. Through-
out his pen, driven by his wit, pictures the
frailty of men and women yielding their
nationality to Prussian blandishments. In
fact, with one honorable exception, the caste
is the mirror of the man who is described
as taking “as supporters for his coat-of-
arms a lion and unicorn oubli6.” It is the
merit of “Saki-’s” work that he despised the
people whose foibles he loved to fondle, but
it was a genuine foreboding of the shallow-
ness of the aristocratic chara'cter that carried
him to his finest height of irony in “When
William Came.” Of his other productions
“Beasts and Super-Beasts” is notable for
some fine animal stories, and there is another
volume of subtle sarcasms with the biting
title of “The Toys of Peace.”
H. H. Munro was born in Burmah in 1870
and was killed at Beaumont Hamel in 1916.
The son of a colonel who had entrusted him
to two maiden aunts on the death of his
mother, he spent a lot of his early life at
Barnstaple in Devon. Arrived at manhood,
he travelled and read widely, eventually
drifting into the Inky Way, on which he
captured jobs that brought him great pres-
tige and influence. He was the Morning
Post’s representative in the Balkans in
1902, and did the abortive Russian Revolution
for the same paper three years later. Then
he was Paris correspondent, political satirist,
sketch-writer and man-about-town until the
outbreak of war in 1914. It is to his credit
that, being over the age for enlistment and
entitled by education and experience to a
commission—-the had served for a long time
in the Burmese Mounted Police —he went
into the 22nd Royal Fusiliers and fought in
the ranks to the finish.
Privately a man of Spartan conduct, he
had all the literary efflorescence of the tender
bloods of the Wilde-Beerbohm epoch who con-
spired to destroy the Victorian age in litera-
ture. Yet he was not so mannered as any
of those, and his sayings had the savour of
happy impromptus. Some of them are worth
quoting by way of postscript:—
Without expecting that her every wish should
become a law to him, she would at least have liked
one to reach the formality of a Second Reading.
His clothes were made more in Southwark than in
anger.
The whole of this [Bernard Shaw] school of drama
suggests Early Victorian furniture in a travelling
circus.
That woman creates a positive draught with the
number of bazaars she opens.
Prime Ministers may be wedded to the truth, but
like some other married couples they sometimes live
apart.
To be clever in the afternoon argues that one is
dining nowhere in the evening.
Never be flippantly rude to any inoffensive, grey-
bearded stranger that you may 'meet in pine forests
or hotel smoking-rooms on the Continent. it
always turns out to be the King of. Sweden.
JEAN SIBI.
ABC
It needs a real effort to keep an open mind
about the alphabet. Most of us, having
absorbed it, once for all. at the tender age
where one accepted everything one was told,
have never thought about it since. So it
seems fixed, unchangeable. To suggest im-
provements on it sounds like speaking dis-
respectfully of the equator. Try telling the
first person you meet that F might just
as well be called “Fee,” or G “Egg,” and
see what sort of reception you get. _ let
nothing could be more obvious. If “Ef, then
“Eg”; or if “Ge,” then “Fe.” You can
have it either way, but why both? The
“Encyclopaedia Britanniea” defends the dis-
tinction, calling one set of sounds “momen-
tary,” the other “continuous,” whatever
that may mean; but I prefer to think the
names just “growed,” like Topsy. One
would not like to believe that some of ( them
were bestowed by a conscious effort. “Zed,”
for instance, is so obviously foolish —just
exactly as foolish as it would be to call T
“Ted”—that the Americans have standard-
ised it to “Ze”; but even they do not yet
say “He” for the monstrosity “Aitch” —
which has no slightest suggestion of the
sound it stands for. “Double U” is excus-
able only as being an attempt to indicate
the shape of the letter; it is as though one
should call Q “Ringtail.” The Vowels
make their own sounds. But when once
the consonants had been started as Be and
Ce, they ought to have worked on in the
same style up to We and Ze. Why not?
A sensible modern tendency of teaching
is not to give, the letters arbitrary names at
all, but just to indicate the sounds they stand
for. Thus PIG becomes —as as one
can indicate on paper—“per-ig-ger”; and
the quicker you say the nearer it, gets. This
device has had the unforeseen advantage of
enriching the language by some entirely new
rhymes. Thus
When Willie is a little bigger,
He may not be such a P-I-G.
Or:
Oh, dear, what is the matter?
Mary kicked the poor ker-at-teh.
Young people taught on this system can
always be detected when in later life they
have to look up a word in a dictionary
or a name in a telephone-book. Not being
quite certain of the true position of V, or
whether Q comes after R or before, they
lose valuable time instead of going straight
to the spot. Clearly, the old system, under
which you knew the alphabet literally back-
wards, had one advantage.
When you hear of a great foreign actress
moving an audience to tears by a short reci-
tal, which turns out to have been merely
the alphabet of her own language given
impressively, you are at liberty to doubt.
But the French alphabet does make a kind
of story—to a Frenchman. The first four
letters being pronounced (roughly) Ah, bay,
say, day, one has to imagine a drama of a
wicked Abbe. It is near curtain-fall, and,
brought to bay, he is summoned to sur-
render, for his principal follower has been
captured. “Abbe, cedez ! Ehef j’ai”—and
so on.
But, as Alice learned from the White
Knight, what a thing is called is not what
it is; and the latter is much more important.
The letter that represents a hissing sound
may or may not have been originally an
attempt to draw the snake that first made
the noise; this has nothing to do with the
question whether, when we have fixed the
letter, we call it Ess or Se. The White
Knight went even further, distinguishing
between what a thing is, its name and what
it is called. That seeming foolishness is
proved correct in the case of the alphabet.
The first letter seemed to the Phoenicians
to be a cow’s head roughly sketched, to the
Egyptians an eagle, to Itudyard Kipling a
carp’s mouth. Its name certainly is the
symbol A, and what you call it depends on
whether you are an Australian (“Ay”), a
Frenchman (“Ah”) and so on.
To come to more important things, as a
working proposition our alphabet is redun-
dant by a little, deficient by a lot. J and Z,
being the softer forms of G and S, ought to
be used a thousandfold more than they are
—in “gentle” and “is,” for example: Xis
not needed, for Ivs could do all its work.
The French very nearly dispense with W.
The Germans use it constantly, but pro-
nounce it as V. So do the Welsh, but pro-
nounce it as 00. Curiously, the French
very nearly reverse that, spelling a word
Ouest but pronouncing it almost as West.
Q is mere lumber, for Kw expresses it. C
is the chief sinner. It has simply no ex-
cuse for existence, having no sound at all
of its own, but butting in in place of either
K or S. It is the circus-clown of the alpha-
bet. In countless words such as “cot” it
makes a bluff at being K. In many others
such as “neck” or “back” it walks in the
procession ahead of K, doing no work what-
ever. (In another series, such as “music”
and “physic,” K used to follow, but retired
in disgust about 200 years ago.) And then
it skips off into words like “office” or “ter-
race,” and E follows humbly, without a
sound, just as a conventional signal that
this time C is pretending to be S. E is
constantly doing that Cinderella act. By
far the most common written letter, it is
comparatively little heard. If “fat” and
“car” want to become “fate” and “care” it
is always E (quite silent) that come in to
serve as a (quite arbitrary) notice to that
effect. It is simply futile that in the word
“rag” two of the three should change their
sound because a fourth comes and stands
silent behind them—“rage. ’ , ,
If anybody asks how, with C abolished,
we could spell “church,” the answer is that,
the sound we have agreed to represent by
CH has nothing about it of either ot those
letters, but is a distinct sound that ought to
have a letter of its own. So ought the one we
spell TH. (In Greek it had, also m Anglo-
Saxon.) They are very English, both ot
them. To say “The church of North Perth
dismisseth us” is impossible to any foreigner,
and even the. simple “Smith” is commonly
too much for him.
The things lacking in our alphabet are
many. We simply cannot indicate Jiow a
Scotchman pronounces “loch,”' a German
“über,” or a Frenchman “campagne.
Possibly we don’t need to. But surely _we
ought to have some symbol for the distinct
vowel sounds we spell—absurdly —All and
OW. One of the advantages of learning
Russian, or Greek, is that it gives the mind
a useful jolt with the discovery that our
alphabet is not complete hijtd final. Even
our own Anglo-Saxon ancestors had several
quite useful characters that we have dropped.
S. TALBOT SMITH.
A Satchel of Books
Michael Forth, by Mary Johnston (Con-
stable). This book goes wearily. The eccen-
tricities of manner which gave charm to “The
Old Dominion” and “By Order of the Com-
pany” have here developed into maddening
verbal acrobatics. A story is hard to read
when most sentences walk on their left foot
and the important sentence which gives
meaning to the whole is turned upside down
and goes on its right ear. The yarn is of a
man and woman of Virginia and the recon-
struction after the civil war; but it is really
a long-drawn-out sigh. As a sort of occultism
without spooks is the keynote, probably the
book will lit the new craze for a spiritual-
istic teaching that looks grave and serious,
but when examined only amounts to a
literary trick of lowering the voice and turn-
ing down the light.
The Quintessence of Bernard Shaw, by
Henry Charles Duffin (George Allen and Un-
win). Shaw is always explaining himself at
such tedious length that it seems unreason-
able that other people should add to the
tedium. This author makes a general
examination of the Shavian gospel and tries
To get it down to a dull and rather conven-
tional platform of reform.
Adelaide in Pen-and-Inlc Drawings, by
J. C. Goodchild (Hassell and Son). Care-
ful drawings of public buildings and places
of interest which have about the force of
photographs, but more delicacy. As a
souvenir of the city the little book will be
prized : and the pictures show a good deal
of skill, though they possess no outstanding
artistic value.
' Rustling Leaves, by E. Congeau (William
Brooks', Sydney). Imitative verse that
generally runs easily and says the old things
quite pleasantly. The author has some skill
in handling metres, but a * poor ear for
rhymes.


I’ve worked out west,
Down south, up north,
For hours and hours by day.
My constant call throughout them all—Hey!
Get the Wool Away!
CONSIGN:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Selling Brokers, ltd.
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
h
NewBiscuitsJ
With cold tea or coffee they
make a delicious change at
“Smoke-O” out on the
harvest-field. Besides being
good to eat and irresistibly
tempting, Joyce Biscuits are
very high in food values and
are easily digested.
Harvest toilers say, for choicv,
“Give us biscuits made by Joyce.”
Svxly 'Ta'rielies'
RIDE A
©
o
MOTOR
BICYCLE
FITTED WITH
B.S.A. COUNTERSHAFT
THREE-SPEED GEAR
The smooth running, ease of con-
trol and ample power of a B.S.A.
Motor Bicycle is a revelation. A
long acquaintance with a B.S.A.
will demonstrate the sturdy and
scientific construction which en-
sures the unfailing reliability and
good service which can be confi-
dently relied upon from B.S.A.
machines.
Letters of appreciation from riders
in France, Burma, Australia, Egypt,
etc., etc., show that B.S.A.
machines give consistent good ser-
vice under the exceptional con-
ditions of colonial motor cycling.
All B.S.A.
parts are
guaranteed
interchange
able.
■ " . ' i -
B.S.A. 6/7h.p.
TWIN
MODEL.
a
Write for full particulars and Handbook to
D. Y. RENNIE
* (Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
Agents: BENNETT & WOOD LTD., Pitt St., Sydney.
■HE
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
A-Z
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
BHAS;
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust —Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association
“Collins House,”
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK', 25 O’Connell Street.
Proprietary, Limited
360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Buildings.
“A.W.” “ T.Y.R.” “A.W. PREMIER.”
ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH.
HIGH-SPEED DRILLS. HIGH-SPEED STEEL.
Sole Australian Representatives.—
Pil riAera, At P« I 115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VJllDert L.Odge <X LO. Ltd., 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Inter-State Stocking: Agents:—
A. SCOTT & CO., 164 Edward Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, Etd., Woran da Bldgs., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.), Etd., 894 Hay Street, Perth.
Manufactured by
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.,
Manchester, England.
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS-
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
iHMi
mm
- §
i' - i
WM
1
:
.
*
m
BuHer Gorge! New Zealand
New Zealand
THE WONDERLAND
OF THE WORLD.
The place for a
REAL GOOD
HOLIDAY.
Pamphlets and full in-
formation supplied free
at
THE NEW ZEALAND
GOVT. OFFICES.
/Sydney:—
London Bank Chambers,
Moore Street.
Melbourne: —
Dominion Chambers,
59 William Street.
URODONAL
The Great French Remedy for Gout, Rheumatism, Gravel, Calculi,
Obesity, Acidity, Arterio-Sclerosis.
The age of a man is the age of his arteries. Keep your arteries young by
taking URODONAL, and you will thereby avoid Arterio-Sclerosis, which
hardens the walls of the blood vessels and renders them stiff and brittle.
THE SIGN OF THE TEMPORAL ARTERY.— (Dieulafey’s Temporal
Sign.) “If you should see between the eye and the root of the hair,
under the wrinkled and withered skin of the temples, a kind of hard,
bluish and knotted cord protruding, be on your guard, for you are
threatened with senility. It does not matter if you have not a white hair;
your arteries are growing old. It is necessary to act immediately. Purify
your blood of the poisonous substances which taint it, and especially of
the most dangerous of all, viz., Uric Acid.”
Dr. J. D. S. BOTAD.
DISSOLVES URIC ACID as. easily as warm
water dissolves sugar!
PREPARED BY ETABDISSEMENTS CHATELAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 10/9.
Can he obtained from all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australasia,
or from CHATELAIN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 852 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY, from whom also can be obtained Free Booklet containing
Medical Opinions.
Business, Robbery, etc.
S. Aus. railways want to let or sell a
tunnel. It is on the Adelaide-to-Melbourne
line, just outside the city. Decent improve-
ments shortened the track, and the perma-
nent and reprodfictive hole in the earth has
no longer any value for traffic purposes:
but anybody who wants to grow mushrooms
in a dark spot, or use a long, narrow
aperture for storage purposes, is begged to
make a sporting offer.
* * * *
“Ant” : I know a man (say Brown) who
is in a position to get even with his landlord,
and avails himself of it without scruple. He
and his wife have three small rooms, with
a kitchenette that a medium-sized man can
almost get into. This is one of eight flats
in a St. Kilda building, and is honestly worth
225. 6d. a week, but the occupants are now
paying £2 12s. 6d. My friend's method is
simplicity itself. Every time Brown's land-
lord puts up Brown’s rent Brown instructs
his agent to put up the landlord's rent. In
point of fact, Brown’s landlord is living in
Brown’s big hou.se, and is blissfully unaware
of the identity of the owner.
* * * *
“D.F.” : The Speck’s Government has re-
vived the long extinct system of land grants,
but it applies only to returned men. They are
allowed to select free, if their qualifications
are approved, Crown lands to the value of
£lOO, which means 200 acres of second-class
land or 400 of third, of which there isn’t
much to be had. What use 200 acres of so-
called second-class land in the Speck is to
any man if he intends to try to make a living
out of it no one has yet discovered. But the
grant is sometimes useful for an R.S. who
wants a bit of bush to round off a run, or i:o
keep anyone from selecting on a lease which
he or his family holds.
* * * *
“Centre” : Re generating power from tides,
“Wal” (B. 18/11/’2O) need not go as far
afield as China Strait. There’s a race
between Hospital Point on Thursday Island
and Prince of Wales Island that is every bit
as strong and very much narrower. There’s
enough power running loose in that swirl-
ing strip of water to drive all the machinery
in Australia. Some day it will be con-
verted into electric juice and squirted along
wires to most of the northern towns, saw-
mills and sugar-mills, and, it is to be hoped,
paper-mills also. But it’s a long way off
yet, and will remain so while private enter-
prise is damned by Government restrictions
and short-sightedness, combined with the
ignorance of so-called labor. Further sup-
plies of current could be generated by using
the water-power of our rivers. Every little
one-hoss town in U.S.A. and Canada that
has anything in the way of a running stream
near it has electric street cars, lighting and
factory-power, generally obtained by crude
turbine plants some distance up stream,
where dams have been built to insure regular
water-pressure. Australia contents itself
Avith talking about State-owned coal-mines
and oil-bores.
* * * *
“Cleveland”: A friend recently arrived
from the land of the griddle cake, and her re-
lations there discovered that she had left some
valued photographs, as well as some of her own
early attempts at painting which she had
hoped never to see again. They were all
packed up and sent to her by registered post.
It was Wise’s crowd who fired the first shot,
notifying that a registered parcel had
arrived; but this proved to be merely a
range-finder, as they refused to hand it over
to her and passed her on to the Customs.
The Customs opened the parcel, classed the
photographs as free but the daubs as “works
of art” liable to 30 per cent, They
also called in a romantic charwoman who
valued them at £5 each, whereupon it was
notified that the “works of art” would be
held for three months and then destroyed by
the private hangman if the duty was not
paid. My friend gladly surrendered the
early indiscretions, and asked if she might
take the photographs. Massy Greene’s philo-
sophers said that she might, but would need
to go to the post office and sign for them.
Wise’s Solomons, however, informed her that
they must deliver either the whole of a
registered parcel or none of it, and they
could only deliver at all on receiving notifi-
cation from the Customs that all duty had
been paid. The position now is that Greene
is hanging on to some alleged works of art
until he is paid 30s. each for them, which
my friend says will be when Mahomet eats
pork sausages cooked by Abraham. She does
not want them, anyhow, but she does' want
the photographs which Greene says she may
have but Wise says she can’t have. And pre-
sumably at the end of the three months the
hangman will dispose of the treasured photo-
graphs as well as “the works of art” —if
meantime my friend doesn’t pay the ransom
which the bandits demand.
THE BAD MAN’S BALLADE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am not one whose fancy runs
Dishonest roads, by liking led;
I merely wind to dodge the duns,
And set my snares for daily bread.
Fain would I labor and, instead,
Do things, not people; but, ah me!
My principles I may not wed —•
Think of my wife and family!
My ego imposition shuns,
But cruel fates have made my bed
And I must lie thereon. These puns
Show- not a soul whence shame has fled;
For still I live, when all is said,
''Strictly by rule, so straight must be—
A golden rule, ’tis quickly read:
“Think of my wife and family!”
Think, of my hungry little ones ;
Thrice daily must the board be spread
With milk and meat and currant buns
And all wherewith the young are fed;
Think of my dear wife at the head.
I do, whene’er a mug I see,
And murmur: “Friend, your surplus shed—
Think of my wife and family!”
Envoy.
Oh, Rhadamanthus, when I’m dead
And up for judgment, hear my plea:
Think not of bank accounts I’ve bled—
Think of my wife and family!
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


1- g
; -'f-;:
Wm
'
mm
■■■• v
:~' r ' :v --,r :
>; • ,
!*•/ ’
a.
mki . ;/$$
i' :< : : C-■]■■■?
„- v ' * ' ’
■MB! 111411
fWt &3EA* t:
ps£i ■ „>• . •
>'*f»• -.-, ..>• &$' ?
.
®l. ( l* J%l|' ’'o P* ’y.
‘ ! ,1 y
■ .7. ■• ■ .
a« 7’7' •-. ■ ■■■■s: .;■*-Sr r :,
£:,'■ m
f £- >V - VJ«
"%F?v?%2 1 , ■
K n?
v-7
' ' ■
#: .
m
r om
' V*?<‘. f --
* •. a ■■?*>
K : : 4-
*%
sS«
{**£ - i-.x1.78i
.- ‘■s
1 M
. pJNjjg
■ ,•
«
I'H
lufip
- ipf M|
iSP
; '4
£«ir ■#., *>
fls. *
-y *,
v « m
K#
. •'.*..JSb
&? . '%■ ;■' fp
S&> *
I M ■' Jpfe'7. ,7":;':
ICi
*4
fe-7 *
T - ' ■'
■~ ' «-: ' , \ '/' V ' • :7 '"' .: ■ *
®iw
* ■ • ni
:
.-
V
All Roads are Smooth in an Overland
r jj V HE Overland is an economical! car in fuel
and tyres. Extensive tests by private owners
have demonstrated its high mileage per gallon.
Triplex Springs set a new standard for light car
comfort and economy. They keep the petrol
consumption low by cushioning car and pas-
sengers from the jars and jolts of rough roads.
Greater pleasure is to be obtained from motoring
in an Overland for every road rides like a paved
road. There is no sway or rebound with Triplex
Springs as compared with other cars.
The Overland is completely equipped, including
Auto-Lite starting and lighting. Its finish is
handsome and attractive. The upholstery is soft
and deep—making it as convenient and attractive
a car as it is serviceable.
GARRATTS,
THE JOHN N. WILLYS EXPORT CORPORATION, 165 Broadway, New York, U, S. A.
Ltd., Sydney. NEAL’S MOTORS, Melbourne. AUTOCARS, Ltd., Adelaide.
E. G. EAGER & SON, Ltd., Brisbane.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., Ltd., Hobart, Tasmania.
ANDERSON & ADAMS, Ltd., Perth.
A. HATRICK & CO., Ltd., Wanganui, New Zealand.


G<*
\>
&
§
0.
*
V
8
§
/
m,
\
rt
G>
HZ
%
\?Jk
<s
l*
2*
S»A
02
cT
Indigestion i
AT the least sign of any disorder of your
digestive organs, make up your mind quickly.
Ward off dangerous consequences by taking
Chamberlain’s Tablets for the stomach and liver.
Professor Iiverta&'
The first dose will cleanse your bowels, drive away the
cause of your pain, and aid digestion. Their continued use will
restore you to perfect health and will not cause constipation.
Chamberlain's Tablets
FOR THE STOMACHandLIYER
a §
ft
? 5
i mil? /
You will like this new
kind of cream. It isn t
sticky —it isn’t greasy,
but so smooth and
creamy that it fairly
melts into your skin,
to soften, heal and
beautify. You will like
its delicate fragrance,
and you will like the
surprisingly low price.
Williams’ Iridesca
Vanishing Cream is a
perfect and pleasant
soother for sun burn
and windchap.
PRICE 2/- A TUBE
Obtainable at all Chemists.
Wi 2
I < *
Williams
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancsr, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
The Gift for a man!
Gillette
In choosing the Gillette Safety Razor you select a
PRACTICAL gift for a man—something he will
use every day.
The Gillette is already the choice of 20,000,000
men the world over —men who have found it
incomparable for shaving under all conditions.
Standard set, as illustrated, in neat leather case,
28/6.
Also many handsome presentation sets de luxe.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR CO.,
Montreal. Canada.
S. Hoffnuiig & Co., Ltd., Wholesale Agents,
Sydney—Brisbane—Adelaide.
fdh
3 HA HiWON*
.WORLD OVEf|
It was a hackneyed, banal device that was
put over the unknown soldier deposited in
Westminster Abbey. “A British Warrior
who Fell in the Great War for King and
Country. Greater Love Hath no Man than
this.” Any number of men with very little
love in their composition have died fighting
in a good cause—for pride, rage, hatred of
the enemy, and that resolve not to go undei*
which leads some ants to do battle with a
hot coal and the wholly unlovely baboon
to scrap for the clan against impossible odds.
Maoriland’s Minister of Works, J. G.
Coates, is an energetic young man. His
railway-building policy has knocked the wind
out of the South Island; but he has told his
critics that until the Otira Tunnel is com-
pleted and electrified he won’t spend any
large sums on construction in the South.
Even though he is going to use steam shovels
and other up-to-date machinery, the cost will
be terrific. Three million pounds a year is
set down for railway-building alone for the
next ten years, the idea being to link up
all the odd stretches of railway with which
political pull has dotted the land.
Now that the Anglican Archbishopric of
Melbourne has been officially declared vacant,
the laymen who have a say in the selec-
tion are looking for the nearest they
can get to a Moorhouse. They want some-
body to tower above the little men who, they
realise, have reduced the “status” of the
denomination in Melbourne. Of course they
will go into the same market that the little
men have come from. What they really
ought to do is to look up a couple of good
press agents. Or import the new prelate
under the management of Hugh D. Mclntosh,
and throw on Hugh D. the responsibility of
making his Grace a star.
“F.W.S.” : I’ve tried without success every
alleged remedy for corns, from safety-razor
blades to acidi salicylic-urn, and I was
anxiously awaiting the publication of “Sunny-
bank’s” experiments (B. 14/10/’2O) with
the astringent juice of the paw-paw. But
meanwhile I got into holts with a pnetfinohid
that kept me recumbent for thtee weeks.
During my convalescence I discovered that
my corns had disappeared. The total relief
from pressure and friction had done the
trick where chemicals and cold steel had
failed. Any decent illness-like typhoid and
small-pox will cure corns, but it’s advisable
to wait until the malady is thrust upon you.
Sale put on its big boots and, coming down
to Melbourne, showed Oman, Minister for
Lands, the size of them. When he sat up
and took notice it mentioned that if the
balance of the Kilraany Park property
was not taken compulsorily for Billjim
settlement, in accordance with Gazette
notice, it would know the reason why. For-
tunately for Oman the Pearson trustees had
just turned down an offer of £l4 an acre
made by the Closer Setlement Board for
about one-third of the 9000 acres desired. So
he was able to say it would now be the lot
or nothing, 'and it would be left to a Judge
to fix the figure that the Billjims who get
blocks will have to pay.
A note from a Northern Gallery :
The new Queensland Assembly started with hard
slogging from the “box-on.” The first sitting lasted
all night, and dawn found members haggard, wild-
eyed and bitter and still bellicose. The new Oppo-
sition is numerically strong and full of ginger. Piter
Macgregor, a lawyer from Merthyr, is a man with a
waspish sting. He prodded Government members into
fury. “Liar” and other endearing epithets struggled
through the acrimonious din, and someone behind a
voice like Theodore’s threatened to fire somebody else
out. Lieut. Joe Kerr, Nationalist member for
Enoggera, has a voice that shakes the building,.
Maxwell, of Toovvong, commands respect, but the
impression he makes would be stronger if he lacked
a certain note of self-esteem.
“Althorpes” : When the little Ferret with
the romantic history wrecked herself on
Yorke’s Peninsula the other day, and broke
up on the beach, the glorious news went
about the Peninsula that unlimited beer was
coming ashore. Soon excursion parties
were rolling up to give willing help in sal-
vage. There was an orgy, of course; but
the only mishap that occurred w T as to a
perfectly sober party of Government officials.
The revellers scattered at sight of them, leav-
ing on the beach a blazing fire, which the
official party found welcome. Then someone
carelessly kicked into the flames an old
signal-rocket, The luck of the drunk had
gone, and a few minutes later two men were
being taken to hospital.
“Oxbery”: It was Andrew, not Alexander,
Thompson who ran Governor Bligh s farm
at the Hawkesbury for him (B. 18/11/’2O),
and left a quarter of his fortune to Governor
Macquarie. Thompson was a Scotsman
and was transported at 17 for setting fire
to a haystack. He got in early on the
Hawkesbury, and was one of the most enter-
prising shipbuilders and shipowners in old
N. S. Wales —he owned the Governor
Bligh and other sealing craft which ran to
Bass Straits, Maoriland and the southern
islands. In Bligh’s day Thompson was chief
constable at the Hawkesbury, a job he lost
when Johnston deposed Bligh. But when
Macquarie took up the emancipists he made
Thompson a magistrate, the first ex-convict
to hold the job in N. S. Wales.
Adelaide Uni. Council is made up of five
members appointed by Parliament and 20
elected by the Senate —which is the whole
body of graduates. A custom prevails of
re - e l ec ting without contest the five Council
members who have to retire every Novem-
ber ; but a brisk contest is put up by aspir-
ing graduates whenever there is a real
vacancy. This year Maughan, lately Gov-
ernment Director of Education, did not
stand again, wishing McCoy, who has suc-
ceeded him in office, to take his place at
the University ; and into the gap thus made
rushed nine candidates, including the other
four retiring members. One of the nine, a lady
lawyer, scratched; the other eight had to
be dealt with by the Hare-Spence system of
voting, which the Uni. adopted in 1915,
but has never previously had to use. The
scrutiny of votes was a complicated affair,
entrusted mainly to Prof. Kerr Grant. When
the dust had cleared away it was found that
McCoy had been elected, with three of the
retiring members —Dr. Helen Mayo (the
only woman member of the council), the
veteran Chappie of Prince Alfred College,
and Goodman of the Tramways Trust. But
Dr. Ben Poulton had lost his seat, after
21 years’ service. Dr. Frank Hone takes it.


AEROPLANES, Seaplanes
= r = and Aero Engines.
VICKERS-VIMY COMMERCIAL.
- Y
■
r
i
m
1
§
9
VICKERS-VIMY TRANS-ATLANTIC
The machines illustrated can be supplied immediately from England. Also all makes of aero
engines, ranging from 75h.p. up to 400h.p.
Prices for complete machines ranging from £6OO upwards.
AVRO. 594, K,
»« No, S
i
Li
Pi
■
«K HAVIIXANO No. 9a
...
|||;:
sttiSTOb pjchte«.
I
4*
pmp?
mmmmm
SE 3 a
n
WMMMMMm
BE 2.e
mmssmmmmt&zm
SOPWfTH' SNIPE
Mi
FtYINO BOAT*
HfT
■lllilf®
m m titis*
■Hi
F. 3. FH-YINCS BOAT.
««
NORMAN THOMPSON FUYINO ®OAT N.T
For full particulars write to
VICKLRS-AUSTRALIA LTD., Aviation Dept.
WM. ADAMS C& CO. LTD.,
Corner of Ring' (Q. Clarence Streets, Sydney.
BRANCH OFFICES:—
MELBOURNE:
Wm. ADAMS & CO Ltd.,
521-523 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
96-98 Currie Street.
BRISBANE:
Edward and Mary Streets.
PERTH:
33-35 King Street.
NEWCASTLE:
Watt Street.


Anoint Irritations With
Soothing Catknra
First bathe with Cuticura Soap and
hot water. These super - creamy
emollients not only soothe, but in
most cases heal annoying rashes,
irritations, eczemas, etc. Nothing
so insures a clear skin and good hair
as making Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment your every-day toilet prepa-
rations.
For sample each address: “R. Towns &
CojgSydncjr, N. S. W.” Sold everywhere.
Soap shaves without mug.
Soap, 1/-; Ointment, 1/- & 2/-
n
gjSSSSjj
SUMMER Comfort
is briefly "clothes to
suit the climate” and
most essentially care in
selection of garments
next to the skin.
IC,
■ m
UNDERWBk HP
is the new idea in sum-
mer underwear. The
porous and ribbed cot-
ton underwear that
allows the air to circu-
late freely between the
skin and the garment.
SOLD BY
Leading Mercers
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS :
HILL BROS., SYDNEY
WARATAH
IMG
ijijiiw **
rv'i.ie
TMWfA
“Waratah” Keeps Fence-
breakers in Check.
It strains tighter, remains rigid.,
and, being uniform in thick-
ness, it has no weak, easily-
snapped sections.
Waratah Fencing Wire also costs
less and stands climatic condi-
tions better.
Get Free Booklet.
AUSTRAL NAIL CO. PTY. Ltd.
310 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
Mills, Newcastle, N.S.W
4ojtra^
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A,
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF: —From 17/6 per day.
10/- per day Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
Waste Power Utilised
On account of the fact that the friction of ball-bearings
uniform at all speeds, shafting running on
h.lv.h. Ball-Bearing Hangers consumes 410 more power
when starting than when running at full speed.
K
BALL-BEARING
HANGERS
Transmit power at the highest attainable efficiency, and
power usually wasted can be employed in useful, producing
work.
A feature which should not be overlooked is the fact that
S.K.F. Ball-Bearing Hangers may safely be run as high as
600 to 1000 revolutions per minute.
Full particulars on request.
GARDNER, W/ERN & CO.,
Power & Light Engineers,
MELBOURNE: 384 City Road.
Showrooms: 3(19 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE: Horsham House.
ADELAIDE: 122 Currie Street. A
•frlOC
V "
J
'//////A
W///////////S.
it
a
the: palace hotel
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
fdh
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
fd
TO
H.M. THE KINO
hfd
SGRUBBS AMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATION OF INSECT BITES.
Of all Grocers, Chemists, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
m
OSTER Bull-Dog Stocks and Dies are sold with the distinct
assurance that they will withstand the roughest sort of use or
abuse, that they are ' easy cutters, and can be quickly understood
and used by boys or inexperienced men.
We give this guarantee, which is passed on to you by our
DISTRIBUTORS:—
Chas. Atkins & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Perth.
John Danlts & Son Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
John Danks & Son Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Parke & Lacy Co. Ltd., Sydney.
R. L. Scrutton & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Swans, Ltd., Sydney.
Fredc. Ash, Ltd., Newcastle.
Paul & Gray, Ltd., Newcastle.
A. Goninan & Co., Ltd., Newcastle.
T. J. Cane & Co., Ltd., Hobart.
McPherson’s Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
McPherson’s Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Engineering: Supply Co. of Aus., Ltd.,
Brisbane.
And many other Machinery, Hardware and Plumbers’ Merchants.
SPARE DIES AND PARTS CARRIED IN STOCK.
Factory Representative: CHARLES WRIGHT, 16 Hunter Street, Sydney.
The
MANUFACTURING CO.
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.S.A.,
Screwing Tackle Specialists. [s
SPORTING NOTIONS.
England, coming to the conclusion that it
hasn’t a hope in professional sculling when Barry
retires, has decided to a big effort to find
new talent. Prizes of £lOO and £5O are expected to
bring out dozens of young professionals from Thames,
Tyne and elsewhere; and a Board of Control is to
take the most promising of them in hand.
* * * *
Julius Caesar was the name of one of the
players, in the second team of cricketers sent out
from England to Australia in 1864. He was a pro-
fessional ; in fact, W. G. Grace, writing in 1890,
said that E. M. Grace, his brother, was the only
“gentleman” in the team. The full team, 11 playing
against 22 opponents in 16 matches, won 10 and
the other six were drawn.
* * * *
“Smiler” Hales, who has been employed by
London John Bull to hunt all over England for
promising pugilists, delivered his little lot in Lon-
don recently, under the chairmanship of Horatio
Bottomley, who admitted candidly that he didn’t
know much about the game himself. The critics
were not greatly impressed, with the new stuff. The
crack heavyweight—the article chiefly needed—
proved to be only 18, and too nervous over the big
occasion to do himself justice.
With the world’s finest hurdlers in Eng-
land on their way back from the Olympic sports, a
.remarkable series of action-photos was taken. The
most curious thing about them is that, apparently,
instead of “rising” to a hurdle, a real flier gets
down to it. The front leg points straight ahead,
and the body bends down towards the leg; so that
—assuming the camera can’t lie—the head of a six-
foot man going over a hurdle is distinctly not as far
from the ground as the head of a man of the same
height standing by.
* * * *
The cable mentions the disastrous finish of
Gaston Chevrolet, the American motor crack, in a
whiz at Noo Yoik. A car driven by another expert,
Eddie O’Donnell, cannoned off a fence into Chevrolet,
and both drivers were killed on the spot. O’Donnell
ran second to Chevrolet in a 150-mile whirl at
Slieepshead (U.S.) last year, the winner averaging
109 miles an hour. Chevrolet even bettered this per-
formance in a 100-mile run on the same track when
he registered 1101m.p.h. Last May the celebrated
“Indianapolis” fell to him when he cut out the
distance at the rate of 11 mile a minute.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : It is a good bet to back two of
a batting XI to make more runs than the other
nine; you can say “to make half the total score”
without much risk, though in a close thing it is
somtimes handy not to have the extras counting
against you. Yet lately I met a man in course
of picking up an easy pound, having been g'-ven
level money about the three top scorers equa ing
the other eight—a thing on which he might i nn-
fortably have laid 20 to 1. Applying the “two •; p”
test to all this season’s complete innings in Dig
Australian cricket to the moment of writing, one
finds: —S.A. against Vic: Whitty 81 and 1 Jlew
68—149 out of 290; A. Richardson 53 and Steele
50—103 out of 270; Park 152 and Ryder 127
279 out of 639. S.A. v. England: V. Richardson
1 38 and Thurgarland 26 —64 out of 118 ; A. Richard-
son 111 afid Rundell 75—186 out of 339. Vic. v.
England: Lanipard 111 and Liddicut 56 —167 out of
274; Liddicut 23 and Ransford 21 —44 out of 85.
England v. N.S.W.: Hobbs 112 and Hendten 67
179 out of 236 ; Hearne 81 and Fender 54 —135 out
of 250 ; Gregory 46 and Kelleway 21—67 out of 153.
It will be seen that, in these 10 instances, the “two
top” wager would have failed only three times, and
in each of those to add the third batsman would be
to win easily. Incidentally, the -above figures sug-
gest what a pleasant diversion a totalisator on the
highest and second-highest scorers might be. There
would have been some lovely dividends among
them. *
“0.K.” : Intermittently the cry of ’’Another
Carbine!” uttered so generally at Flemington after
the Cup is still being heard in the land. It is very
ungenerous to the late Carbine. One newspaper com-
pared the 3.25 J of Poitrel with the 3.28 J of Carbine,
and argued that the difference in time more than
counterbalanced the 51b. difference between the
weights of the two great winners. Go to ! The
improvement in Flemington course during the past
30 years would fully account for 2 i seconds reduction
in Melbourne Cup time, other conditions being equal.
During the same period 8J secs, has been cut off the
record for the Sydney Cup, which in 1889 was held
by the same old Carbine aforesaid. The steady
levelling of the principal racing tracks can be
credited with the improvement in times. Thirty
years ago a horse, even as now, couldn’t be expected
to do more than beat the record up to then, and
Carbine did this both in Melbourne and Sydney. H<
was a three-year-old, carrying 9st., when he clipped
lisee. off the previous best for Sydney Cup, though
when he won it again next year, carrying the 9st.
91b. that Poitrel nearly carried to victory last April,
the time was 6sec. slower. But, then, the course was
comparatively heavy. Also, with 9st. 91b. aboard he
won comfortably, whereas Poitrel, with the same
crusher, didn’t win at all. In his first attempt at
the Melbourne Cup the ever-ready champion was only
a four-year-old with a cracked heel —and a badly
cracked heel at that. . He was placed second with
lOst. up. Next year, when he did the lOst. 51b.
trick, his h£el was all right, as it needed to be, for
the going was hard and the champion had to - clear
right away from the field of 40-odd horses if he was
to make sure of winning. Carbine didn’t gradually
wear the leader down towards the finish as Poitrel,
did in the Cup. He made a one-horse race of it
coming down the straight, winning by 24 lengths in
a style that lives in the memory of everybody who
saw the performance. Carbine at his top speed,
showing a clean pair of heels to Highborn and Correze
(who were respectively carrying less weight than
Erasmus and Queen Comedy, remember), was a sight
for the gods. And what had he been doing earlier
in the season? Not getting beaten, like Poitrel! At
Randwick he won the only two races he started for,
and on V.R.C. Derby day he won Melbourne Stakes
anyhow, whereas Poitrel finished only third in the
Stakes. It was then rightly pleaded for him that
staying was his game, and the Cup distance would
suit him. So it did, and the gallant nag won his
Cup, under the weight (lOst.) which had been a
little too much for little mare Wakeful 17 years
earlier, because she had the luck to strike a brilliant
youngster in Lord Cardigan, carrying only 6st. 81b.
Why, had Poitrel been chasing Lord Cardigan he would
not have won this Melbourne Cup! But had Wakeful
been pitted at the finish against an Erasmus, carrying
7st., the little mare would have won. Seeing that
9st. 71b. didn’t stop Wakeful from winning the Syd-
ney Cup in her day, whereas 9st. 91b. stopped Poitrel
last April, it would be fairer to call the latest cham-
pion “another , Wakeful” than “another Carbine.”
Yet that-would not be quite fair ter the lady, either,
for she, like Carbine, was brilliant in a six-furlong
flutter, and she won the Melbourne Stakes three years
in succession, and only failed by a head to win
Caulfield Cup from end to end, with 9st. up. The
comparison with Carbine cannot be seriously claimed.
Carbine as a four-year-old was once beaten out of a
place in a field of four. His cracked heel was
troubling him, and his teeth were bad, and he had to
be thrown out of work ; therefore, when he re-com-
menced business four months later he was not suffici-
ently hardened to finish nearer than third for the three-
miles Champion Race. From that day till the end
of his racing career Carbine’s score was 18 wins and
one second, his only conqueror being Marvel, in a
mile race. Had the w.f.a. stakes in those times been
up to present-day figures the total winnings of Car-
bine during his four seasons on the turf would have
been much greater. In handicaps, never unplaced, his
. record was —third in Newmarket Handicap and
second in Australian Cup, having Lochiel ahead of
him in each case. Two wins- in Sydney Cup, and
one win and a second in Melbourne Cup. Here was
a champion. When comes such another?
(Continued on page 38.)


Goodwill Triumphant
Under Test.
As this message is being written, Dodge
Brothers’ daily, weekly and monthly
production is at the highest point in its
history.
The most casual sort of inquiry will satisfy
you that this production is being absorbed
as it is delivered.
As we write, a great addition to Dodge
Brothers’ immense works is being
rushed to completion.
The interesting thing about this situation is
that it is not likely that half a hundred
people have ever' bought Dodge Brothers
Motor Oar just because they wanted a
motor car.
Of the more than half a million who have
bought it—the overwhelming majority
diti so because of the ; name it bore
It has always been treated by the American
people, in particular, as an exception—
always set apart and singled out, and
never judged by ordinary standards.
It has always been thought of, and is still
thought of, first and foremost, and all
the time, only in terms of its goodness
and the results-?, it gives.
All of this is wonderful, in one way, and
quite natural and logical in another.
It all dates back to the day when John and
Horace Dodge conceived and designed
. and finally built the car—after warning
each other and their associates not
even to think of it in any other terms
than the best obtainable value.
They began with a few almost absurdly
simple principles, bluntly expressed and
rigidly executed, about decency and
honor and integrity—such as most of us
wrote in our copybooks at school.
They reduce these old copybook maxims to
a splendid and scientific system, and
still more value into the car. and then
marshalling all the resources of modern
massed manufacture to get their pro-
duct into the hands of the people at an
honorable and an honest cost.
These policies and principles have npver
been changed, and never will be changed,
by so much as a hair’s-breadth ; and they
have come to be recognised and accepted
as Dodge Brothers’ principles wherever
motor cars are driven.
It has all happened as John and Horace
Dodge planned it —quite simply, natu-
rally and automatically, all over
America and all over the world.
Peojtie do discriminate, as Dodge Brothers
contended they would ; people will find
out when a motor car is well built and
gives good service and a great good
value.
Dodge Brothers’ market to-day is where
they planned to locate and establish it
—in the mind and the heart of every
man and woman who admires good work,
well done.
It will last, and it will keep on growing, as
it has kept on growing for five years
(faster than Dodge Brothers’ works
could keep pace with it), as long as the
number of those who believe that a
manufacturer should build to serve and
not merely ,to sell, continues to increase.
All is well with Dodge Brothers to-day,
because John and Horace Dodge builded
well in the beginning, and because their
business will continue well until the end.
safeguard you* HEAlth
0? JXoffiS Broiling
CWorodwe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Co/c/s, Asthma,
and iu tile Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPAS M S and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery,
SOLD IN BOTTLES.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/S and 3/-.
Made in England.
m
‘The ‘PLUM’
Rajorfor Me!”
This noted Razor is no new inven-
tion—thousands are sold annually.
The “Plum” requires but little strop-
ping, as its finely-tempered edge keeps
keen against the stiffest beard, and
gives just that smooth, velvety shave
which every man appreciates.
Price 12/6, post free.
We keep it in order for two years free
of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle 12/6
Pair in Double Case 25/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle.. 15/6
Pair in Double Case 30/-
(This line makes a handsome present)
Plum” Strops, each.. 7/6 & 10/6
“Plum” Stop Dressing . ... 1/2
All the above Post Free.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
iu8
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
A more remarkable recognition of merit on the
part of the public it would be difficult to conceive.
Every increase in production is comfortably
absorbed in an increased market.
The works in which the car* is produced have
grown until they are almost a city in themselves.
But when the satisfaction of the market seems to
be in sight, the horizon widens and draws itself
still further away. .
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.,.
Dodge Brothers
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland) Btd.,
Brisbane.
Standardised Motors, Limited
Sydney.
Winter bottom Motor Co., litd.,
Perth.
Cheney Motor Co.j Ltd.
Adelaide.
fdh
qeorge hotel,
•St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia.
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
i you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
w
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney
All the great good in milk,
Nature’s all-important food, becomes
available when it is prepared with Benger’s.
The way to prepare Benger’s Food for Infants of all ages
is clearly instructed upon every tin of Benger’s Food, and
special formulae, commencing with babies of from one to
three months old, which have been approved by eminent
medical authorities, are included also within the tin.
fd
Food
i« a natural Food, always prepared with fresh new milk, or milt
and water, according to the age of the child.
- ® enB s r l 8 Foo< * is more than addition to milk. It is specially
j P er s? rm ? he important duty of modifying cow’s milk
to the delicate digestion of a child.
® e ” Ber ’ a 64 page illustrated bqok, most helpful to mothers, post free, from a
SENGER S FOOD L»TD. f * —— • 117 p?tt Qfrppf
Bole Proprietor* and Manufacturers BEN'OEB'S POOD LTd’., MANCHESTER, England. *


■' v~>
■
A. Saunders’ Glove Box, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, richly*
engraved “Ribbon”’ design, Silk-lined, £3/3/*
Large size, £5.
A. Saunders’ Collar Box, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, beautifully burnished and engraved,
£4/4/-
A, Saunders’ Solid Silver Manicure Set, hand-burnished,
finest-quality Instruments, 5 pieces, 55/-
7 pieces, 70/-
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Photo Frame,
hand-burnished, plain design. In three
*5B!
SgJglSg
5»1
Ull
fiSSS
rag
TO*
m
as
r*.
U
«
i*
s
TOM
*l*
s
T nrf*
§Wc«;
5S
A. Saunders’ Splid Silver Brush, Mirror and Comb, in Silk-
lined Case, engraved design, hand-burnished, finest-quality
Bristles, Bevelled-edge Mirorr, £5.
Others, £5/15/-, £6/6/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Solid Silver Brush Set, finest-quality
Bristles, in Silk-lined Case, £6/10/-
A. Saunders' Puff Jar, pure Silver-plated lid Crystal
Glass Jar, 15/6.
Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Silver Purse, hand-burnished,
engraved “Ribbon” design, £4/10/-
Others, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite Railway Station).
U ARABIC”ROOF COOLING COMPO "AR ABIC’’ ROOF COOLING COMPO ‘ARABIC ROOF COOLING COMPO
ARAB1 C” ROOF COOLIN6 COMPO "ARABIC’ROOF COOLING COMPO
iff
COOL
Roor
HlM**
CDMPO
1
REDUCES TEMPERATURE 30 DEGREES.
Think what this means living or working under an iron , r °° f ‘ ...
The World’s greatest and most economical Roof-Cooling Compo. foi Iron ant
or Brick, Stone and Cement Walls. 4 __ n>r\c \x/¥TI4 TWO
1 CASE of 561 b. WILL COVER 150 SQUARE YARDS WITH TWU
COATS, and can be applied by anyone!
JAMES PAGE, M.H.R., Member for Maranoa, Queensland, writes:— . roofs and walls ‘ARABIC’
“My house in Queensland, being of galvanised-iron, would be almost untenable, bu xo know of, and it
reduces the temperature 30 degrees. I have met with Mi,any roof compos., but ARABIC is me
DOES NOT WASH OFF.”—(Signed) JAMES PAGE. . v
Arabic Roof-Cooling Compo. is wonderfully cheap, does not affect (Tain-wa ,
improves the appearance of your home. Made m White an _ BUILDINGS,
Use “Arabic” on your BUNGALOW, COUNTRY HOUSE, STATIOJN, ♦
WOOL-SHEDS, DAIRY, BUTTER FACTORY, and wherever people liv
heat.
ROOF-COOLING COMPO
India, Africa, China, Java, Straits
ARABIC
Has been in use for over 40 years in Australia,
Settlements, and the Pacific Islands.
Stocked by Storekeepers and Wholesale
Merchants.
N.S.W. WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS—
Gwnnerson, Crockett, Ltd., 579 Kent Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS—
James Campbell & Sons, Ltd., Creek Street, Brisbane.
PROPRIETORS AND MANUFACTURERS:
ARABIC V.O.PTY. LTD.*
511-513 Law Courts Place,
MELBOURNE.
►
mm
m
|j
juj
Juaij
JlissJ
m
&
v
(M
x
it VJ
m.
fMz
l. A^
• i
' >■■'
"S
%
r\
m
iV\
ill
IWf
\S
ttisffl
iiMi
M
“ARABIC’ 1 ROOF COOLING COMPO '‘ARABIC** ROOF COOLING COMPO
ARABIC” ROOF COOLING COMPO
‘ARABIC 1 ROOF COOLING CO KIPP ’ARABIC
ROOf COOLING COMPO


Amusements.
Harry Kickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
EVENINGS AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
LEE WHITE
in THE GIRL FOR THE BOY.
BAILEY & COWAN, with ESTELLE DAVIS.
Plans at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
’Phone 9924 for Reserves.
TIVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, DECEMBER 11.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents the fascinating
Musical Extravaganza of the Orient,
CHU CHIN CHOW.
Plan at Glen’s.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., Direction.
OFFER
HER MAJESTY’S.
GILBERT & SULLIVAN OPERAS.
THE MIKADO.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, DECEMBER 11,
THE YEOMEN OF THE GUARD.
CRITERION.
THE GIRL IN THE TAXI.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, DECEMBER 11,
HIGH JINKS.
PALACE.
MARIE TEMPEST and GRAHAM BROWNE,
GOOD GRACIOUS, ANNABELLE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, DECEMBER 11,
OUTCAST.
THE SYDNEY CHORAL SOCIETY
(Hon. Condu tor: Mr. W. REGINALD GOOUD.)
SYDNEY TOWN HALL.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 18, at 7.45 pan.
SPECIAL CHRISTMAS CONCERT.
GRAND CHOIR AND ORCHESTRA.
ELIJAH.
Assisted by distinguished artists, including—
Mr. CARL FORMES AS THE PROPHET.
Mr. RALPH ERROLLE—THE EMINENT TENOR.
Plans at Paling’s. 5/- 3/ —Reserved —plus tax.
NIONrICTURE X II E A T It E M
THE PICK OF THE WORLD'S FILMS.
Presented in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC. EMPRESS,
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS,
WEST’S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
JC. WILLIAMSON LTD. MELBOURNE
■ ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
The Musical Comedy that exceeds the speed limit,
THE BOY.
THEATRE ROYAL.
LAST THREE NIGHTS of
LOWELL THOMAS.
ON MONDAY, DECEMBER 13,
THE BOY will be transferred to this theatre.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (ovei
Princes Bridge).
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
HENRY WALTHALL in
THE CONFESSION
and
EVERYTHING BUT THE TRUTH.
Prices as usual.
THE
GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
TRUMPET ISLAND.
ALL STAR CAST.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
y> RIXANN IA THEATRE, MELBOURNE
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
Public Notice.
CHOICE FARMS NEAR DUNGOG
Estate of WILLIAM JEWHURST, dec’d.
THOMAS CARLTON has been instructed
by the Public Trustee to sell by auc-
tion at the Court House Hotel, Dungog, on
Friday, 10th December, at 3 p.m., THE
ARABELLA ESTATE, comprising:—
Lot 1—286 acres, 3 roods.
Lot 2—301 acres, 2 l9 perches.
Lot 1 contains good agricultural land
with frontage to Williams River, balance
good grazing land. A good four-roomed
house and kitchen, dairy, bails, yards,
barn, piggery, etc. Subdivided into suit-
able paddocks.
Lot 2, all first-class grazing land, well
watered, fenced and improved.
Title Freehold.
Arabella is situated 16 miles from Dun-
gog, good road, close to school, post-office
and church. Cream waggons pass daily to
Dungog butter-factories.
TERMS: Twenty-five per cent, deposit,
balance on completion of conveyance.
Plans and further particulars obtainable
at Room 405, Public Trust Office, Culwulla
Chambers, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Moore 4-Speed Gears
for Ford Cars and Trucks.
NEW 1920 MODELS just arrived per S.S. Sonoma.
Send for Booklet. Hundreds in use.
MORE POWER,
MORE SPEED,
FREE ENGINE,
easy starting.
hfd
WESTCOTT, HAZELL CO. LTD.,
Suppliers of all Motor Accessories, 245-247 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY
ELECTRIC WELDING
If you are interested in Electric Welding—
The “Premier” Electric Welding Co., Ltd., can supply everything you want.
THE “PREMIER” MOTOR GENERATOR SET, WITH PATENT
REACTANCE AND SWITCHBOARD, for Electric Welding, and the
“PREMIER” 4.4 Iv.W PORTABLE PATENTED PETROL ELECTRIC
WELDING SET.
“ELECTRODES.” —“Premier” General Service Flux-coated Electrodes,
suitable for all general purposes in connection with the Welding of Mild Steel,
Wrought Iron, etc.
For further particulars and quotations, apply
FRANK FORSYTH,
Warren’s Buildings, Wharf Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Telegraphic Address— I “FRAFOR,” Brisbane.
*2
dl
For
a happier
Christmas
get a NEW EDISON
Make this Christmas the happiest yet with song and music—
not music reproduced by imperfect processes, but Re-Created
by the New Edison. There is absolutely no difference
between the Re-Creations and the originals who made the
records.
This marvellous musical instrument is as far ahead of talking-machines as
the aeroplane is in advance of the kite.
Write for details to-day, and free literature.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Supplied to Defence Dept, for Military Hospitals.
Most Reliable Remedy for
INDIGESTION RHEUMATISM
INSOMNIA
BUTTERLAC IS FREE FROM DRUGS.
All Chemists and Stores, in tins, 2/6 and 4/6.
GENUINE PICKERING
GOVERNORS. All types,
fin. to 4 inches.
Intercolonial
Boring Co. Ltd.
BRISBANE,
Engineers’ Merchants, Manufacturers.
Engineering Requisites of all Descriptions.
Hercules Windmills Hercules Oil Engines Hercules Boring Plants
1.8. C. Horizontal Steam Engines 1.8. C. Walking Beam Pumping Plants
1.8. C. Brass Artesian & Well-Pump Cylinders 1.8. C. Centrifugal Pumps
1.8. C. Power Working Heads 1.8. C. Syphon Windmill Pumps
Sheep and Cattle Trougliing, Cast Iron and Wrought Steel
Pulleys, Circular Saw Benches and Spindles, Crab AVinclies,
London Pattern Blocks, etc., etc.
Offices and Warehouses —418-424 and 450-460 Ann Street,
Brisbane. Works—-Yeerongpilly.
(Trams pass near by.) [l
M
ASSURE
FOOTWEAR COMFORT
by wearing ABBEY SHOES. They are
constructed on lines to give the maximum
of comfort and pleasure to dressy men.
We illustrate a superior-quality Patent
Oxford Bal., Dull Calf Legs. Stocked m
three fittings—narrow, medium and wide.
Price 84/-
All-Patent Bals 84/-
Tan Bals. 67/6
Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between Q.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Baaassisfinai
hfd
%
Lonqclotfvy
h
TH£ WORLD'S
BEST VALUt
Sheefonga
ESECaH33I522i
What of
Xmas
Presents ?
fdh
Three fine diamonds
set in platinum,
£2O.
What form will they take this year?
Our judgment is that they will largely take
the form of diamonds, and wisely so, as dia-
monds well bought are always a safe invest-
ment as well as being prized presents.
Then, too, diamonds with us are at lower prices
than they are in London or Amsterdam.
WHY?
Speculative diamond men hit hard by the
banks calling in overdrafts in Europe dare not
sell there at loss prices, and so have sent dia-
monds to Australia and realised cash at
reduced prices in the hope of tiding over the
crisis. ~ , ,
We have manv thousands of such diamonds, ana
are selling them at less than London prices.
They form everlasting and pleasing presents.
Fairfax 8 Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
rash oZ mes ‘
25 8 25 Hunter Street.
For Sale.
Manly. Manly. Manly.
GENTLEMAN’S HOME,
9 good rooms, elaborate fittings, servants’ quarters,
outhouses, and every modern convenience.
UNINTERRUPTED AND GLORIOUS VIEWS.
Large BLOCK OF LAND, 193 feet to Addison
Road, by a depth of 190 feet, laid out in gardens,
lawns, and surrounded by lovely trees, with absolute
water frontage to its own beach. Private surfing,
fishing, boating.
PRICE, £6OOO.
Terms can be arranged, Torrens’ Title.
This is a rare opportunity of buying a Superb
HOME in this Progressive Suburb. Great prospective
value.
Immediate Possession.
KING CQ. HUMPHERY,
121 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
TN the Matter of the Estate of WILLIAM PARRATT,
■b late of 11 Calder Street, Darlington.
CAROLINE, sister of the abovenamed deceased,
last heard of about 45 years ago, is requested
to communicate with the undersigned respecting her
interest under the will of the deceased.—T. W.
GARRETT, Public Trustee, Culwulla Chambers. 67
Castlereagh Street, Sydney, New South Wales,
18th November, 1920.


DO YOUR XMAS THINKING NOW.
Do not be like the multitude who wished they had.
Think Xmas Think Chocolates —Think Golden Gate
and your Christmas worries are over.
We have gathered from the world’s markets a wonderful assortment of the most
BEAUTIFUL BASKETS AND SWEETMEAT BOXES
ever brought to Australia.
These are attractively decorated and most exclusive in design and exquisite in colorings, marvels of beauty
and absolutely new
Boxes and baskets are filled with our hand-made, hand-dipped Chocolates, each piece being a mouthful of
u neSS ~ creamy ’ fruity and nut centres—smooth, crisp coating, in fact, GOLDEN GATE
CHOCOLATES.
Daintily and carefully packed.
Also our Blue and Gold Chocolates,
boxes, from 7/6 to £l/7/6.
Various sizes from 6/6 to £6/6/-
And SUPER CHOCOLATES. Milk and
Bittersweet assortments. Boxes 6/- & 10/6.
These prices include all packing and postage charges.
Golden Gate Sundae Shop, Pitt & Market Streets, Sydney.
. -
1
swhsa.
m
BHB
Si*
w
'•:- ■.
H
11
m
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Yeomen of the Guard”
Criterion “High Jinks”
Palace “Outcast”
Tivoli “The Girl for the Boy’’
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Boy”
Royal Lowell Thomas
Tivoli “Chu Chin Chow”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Glaciarium Dancing
♦
“Good Gracious, Annabelle,” arrived at
Sydney Palace on Saturday night, and
proved a bewitching youn«- woman. For
short, she is Annabelle Leigh, whose ideas
about finance entitle her to the Treasurer’s
job in any Australian State Ministry. In
desperate straits, she undertakes to cook at
the country house of George Wimbledon,
and manages at the same time to find places
on the staff for her four impecunious friends.
George, who never allows himself to waste
a thirst, comes down to the servants’ hall
for an interview, and the newcomers have
some awkward questions to answer; but
Annabelle does most of the answering,
and they all crowd through. At the same
time another young man has* come down.
He happens to be the husband of the good-
heavens lady, but naturally she doesn’t
recognise him, having married him when a
mere kitten and at once left him. Hitherto
the only tie between them has been a quar-
terly allowance. In the natural order of
stage events they fall in love, and as he has
a mere 10,000 dollars a day she doesn’t
struggle enough to notice. Marie Tempest,
who is rarely off the stage, is a charming
Annabelle, and Graham Browne is an amus-
ing Wimbledon; Doris Gilham, as a Lottie
with the same little weakness as her master,
and Frank Harvey, as the million-k-minute
John Rawson, are satisfactory supports.
After next week the co. leaves for the
U.S.A., which remark is by way of a solemn
warning to those who like good comedy welL
played and a leading lady who can be as
eloquent with her hands as any pawnbroker
that ever took a pledge.
2= *
Sydney Repertory players on this Satur-
day night did Gregan McMahon proud. They
were, with one exception, entirely different
from those of the first effort, and their play,
“Getting Married,” was a piece of fascinating
mental acrobatics by Bernard Shaw. Ernest
Watt as the human bishop, F. H. Day as
Hotchkiss, the greatest coward in the British
Army, and Beatrice Macdonald as the
Bishop’s daughter were amazingly good in a
cast that was excellent; and Wynne Whear-
Roberts as Mrs. George Collins, the clair-
voyant Lady Mayoress, deserves a special
mention. Gregan McMahon as master of
the revels wiped out his previous Saturday’s
offence.
“The Girl in the Taxi” whizzes off Syd-
ney Criterion stage to-morrow (Fridav)
night, and “High Jinks” follows at 8 p.m.
on Saturday.
•1'
“The Mikado” goes off duty at Sydney
Majesty’s on Friday, and “The Yeomen of
the Guard” is to be the first relief. A fresh
G. and S. opera will follow every seventh
day for the next five weeks. Not new, per-
haps ; but certainly fresh.
• * :!= *
“The Girl for the Boy” continues to add
"The Boy,” at Her
Majesty’s, Melbourne.
Arthur Stigant as the
magistrate the morn-
ing after.
to the gaiety of
this loan-sozzled
nation —or some
thousands of it—
at the' Tivoli, Syd-
ney.
Sydney Crystal
Palace and Strand
ask in anguished
headlines “Should
a Woman Tell?”
Alice Lake unfolds
to her young
sculptor-man the
truth per medium
of a letter and a
rose. The letter a
sensible mother
keeps back, but
Alice returns to
her confitcor on the
wedding night. The
new husband flings
off the serpent he
has taken to his
bosom, Alice drifts
t o Mexico, and
after a cyclone of
adventures meets
the original sin in
the flesh and is
about to be his
when husband arrives in a hurry and
—but should a paper tell? In addition the two
screens show a heroic convict and a silly
heroine who despises his honest love though
she collars his dishonest money to become a
prima donna. “Out of the Storm” it is
called. At the Lyceum Clara Kimball
Young is “The Forbidden Woman,” supposed
to be French, but this writer doesn’t believe
she ever got past a French-English Phrase-
book for Travellers. For the same patrons
Corinne Griffith provides some fun as a
political boss in “Babs’ Candidate.” Globe
and Haymarket star Robert Chambers’s
inebriated young man in “The Fighting
Chance.”
Nell Payne dropped out of the cast of
“The Boy” at Melbourne Majesty’s last
week, and a damsel named Mione Stewart
fell in. She was" quite as effective, and
stamped her feet with equal forcefulness in
the argument with Maude Fane in the first
act. As for Maudie, her conception of the
little music-teacher has become more fetching
in certain particulars. For one thing, her
smile is now more restful, and she is begin-
ning to restrain her tendency to over-rate
her inconspicuous place in the narrative.
After Saturday Her Majesty’s will be re-
quired for urgent panto rehearsals, so “The
Boy” will return to its old stand at the
Royal. This means that Lowell Thomas
will have to move on with his unexciting
discourse of the late war in Palestine.
Next Saturday “Chu Chin Chow” appears
for the first time at Melbourne Tivoli. For
some days column advts. in the press have
been glowing with the marvels that will be
produced under the stage direction of Frank
Cochrane. Hugh Mclntosh claims to have
spent £20,000 on the show, and in an
endeavor to patch the hole in his bank
account he is charging £1 Is. for the best
“THE GIRL FOR THE BOY,” AT
SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Frank Harvey as a serious chocolate king.
seats on the first night. The top prices
subsequently will be 10s. 6d. for circle and
stalls, with a discount of 3s. at matinees.
* * *
Walter Kirby’s almost-farewell concert in
Melbourne Town Hall on Saturday night
was all a Kirby concert should be. The
principal was in magnificent voice and sang
Wagner and Beethoven as well as groups
of sugary songs. “The Dream,” from Mas-
senet’s “Manon,” was an exquisite bit. The
tenor gave generous encores and looked sen-
timental. He had had the shears over ruddy
hair and moustache alike, and was clipped
down almost to a silhouette. Rigid dieting
had even robbed him of several of the
famous chins. In fact, he looked like a
copy of a portrait of himself taken in his
operatic days in Italy. Billy Burrell accom-
panied him in his songs and followed his
artistic deviations from the written score.
Gwen Davis, an Australian who has been
studying abroad, made [her reappearance
with some good violin music; and Norah
Delaney brought her powerful arms to bear
on the piano and played some Chopin. The
house was well packed.
John D. O’Hara is protracting his fare-
well another week at the Melbourne King’s.
Last Saturday he was fining himself heavily
for rough language in a revival of “Three
Wise Fools.” Two more nights of the same
business practically made him bankrupt; so
last night he switched back to his old part
of Lightnin’ and started to paint California
pink once more. But he will only flourish the
brandy bottle until Saturday, so people who
haven’t yet inspected his classic thirst had
better burst their money-boxes and hurry up.
Mozart’s “Figaro” as given in English by
Sir Thomas Beecham in London, is finishing
a two nights’ run at Melbourne Playhouse
to-night. The production is under the care
of Fritz Hart and A. Howett-Worster.
The fond heart of a Redskin hero is ex-
posed in “The Last of His People” at Mel-
bourne Majestic. The
noble Redskin cap-
tures the affections of
a white damsel, but
he has to prove his
quality in a canoe
fight and sundry other
tests before she con-
sents to become his
property. “A Damsel
in Distress” is fiction
of a lighter ojder, but
June Caprice is just
the girl to give the
yarn its proper pro-
portions of smiles and
tears. The gun power
of Tom Mix is the
reigning wonder at
Ilo.vt’s. Doubling the
parts of a sheriff and
his son in “Desert
Love,” Thomas brings
to a dead end several
alarming careers.
Hoyt’s next best is
“Everything but the
Truth,” a canoodly
narrative which is all
laughter and lies.
Eddie Lyons and Lee
Moran keep the plot
rolling in a breathless
low-comedy direction.
The Britannia is now
showing “Marge
O’Doone” in a raging
drama of snow, ice
and grizzlies. At the
“The Boy,” at Her
Majesty's,
Melbourne.
Roy Redgrave as
the Colonel.
Melba “Wives and Other Wives” is putting
fashionable husbands on the free list.
** * *
Whilst the demand for fresh faces com-
pels the Tait-Williamson combine to keep
its companies on the move, the popularity
of Nellie Bramley, George Cross and one or
two others allows the Fullers to put up the
same old company for month after month
at the Melbourne Palace. This is the 176th
week of Palace drammer, and Nell, George
and Co. have been there most of the, time
doing a new thriller every week, and inci-
dentally giving such a rosy appearance to"
the boss’s balance-sheets that B. J. Fuller,
besides putting £lOOO to the credit of young
Creagh and thus enabling him to accept his
Rhodes scholarship, has just mentioned to
•John Storey that he has another £5OOO
waiting to help along the people’s education.
* * * *
A Westralian comes to Melbourne—
H. Van Raalte’s show at the Melbourne Fine Art
Society's gallery is a revelation of his grace and
power in aquatint, dr'ypoint and etching. Strong
popular demand has made his aquatint “Banks of
the Blackwood” the prize of the display, but several
prints elsewhere have an equal fascination. “The
Band Saw,” a large study of a workshop interior,
with a tangle of shadowy beams to try his drawing
to the utmost, is a brilliant bit of work. The dry-
point of “The Swamp” is an example of the artist’s
genius in translating color into monotone, and in
the “Fremantle Bridge” he gives one a great impres-
sion of steel girders leaping from bank to bank in
exhilarating curves. His technical certainty, com-
bined with his fine sense of color values, makes all
his views of big timber worth a second inspection,
and young etchers could derive tremendous stimulus
from close study of such successes as “The Shell,”
“Banks and Boles” and the .delightful “Road Through
Karri.” His one figure subject, “Vanity,” is a
comparatively uninteresting nude in an uncertain
composition, and he is not so charming in the
earlier English prints, “Wealth and Poverty” and
“Needle Alley.” Though he includes one or two
Dutch etchings, he is not a Dutchman, but an Eng-
lishman of Dutch extraction who reached his artistic
maturity in Westralia. He also hangs a couple
of chalk portraits. which are rather pretty and want-
ing in masculine vigor; and his three landscapes in
oil suggest that he should stick closely to the needle.
s|c ![:
Allan Wilkie is working hard at Adelaide
Royal with a fresh Shakspeare play each
evening. He unfolds a dignified Shylock, a
courtly Malvolio, and an unusually robust
and active Hamlet. Miss Hunter-Watts re-
peats her old successes, and of the others
Fred Patey has so far been most noticeable,
with a well-played though farcical Sir Toby.
The season is very properly being supported
as a factor in education, and school-parties
are large and numerous. The main rivals
are a week-long charity fete for Minda home
which has turned the Exhibition into a like-
ness of Cairo, with lots of side-shows; and
the So-and-So’s in the open. At least, they
have been in the open every night but one,
when a storm drove them to the Town Hall,
where they seemed rather cramped. Maude
Amery has come in to dance, and Welch gets
much fun out of various “sketches” which
have been successful in revue. Glanmore
Jones, Everard, McKay and Neale combine
finely as a Harmony Four. Pictures: At
Wondergraph Ethel Clayton is “A Lady in
Love”; at West’s Constance Talmadge does
two things always popular with an audi-
ence, first analysing her emotions by con-
sulting a book, and then, having picked her
man, setting about resolutely to get him.
Also Mitch Lewis at this house does big
things among the Tall Timber, with a
forest fire thrown in. The Pav. has that
delightful Irishism, “Garry Owen.”
There’s to be a fete at Ascham in aid" of
the Sydney Hospital on Saturday, with a
wonderful Christmas tree and an afternoon
tea in charge of the trim nurses. And there’s
talk now of the new G.-G.’s opening it.
The Cheer-o Girls are going to run sum-
mer-evening concerts at the different cool-
ing-off spots around Sydney. Manly Paris
Gardens on the 15th ring to the opening
chorus; and the concerts will go on every
Wednesday, audiences justifying, 'with dif-
ferent beach backgrounds.
This year Sydney Soldiers’ Club is cele-
brating its sixth Christmas, and the trustees
want to make it a real Christmas for the
A.1.F,-ers and ex-Imperial-Service men who
look upon the club as their Sydney head-
quarters. The secretary will be delighted to
receive donations of suitable gifts and pro-
visions for the Christmas dinner.
From an old pressman :
Herm, which Compton Mackenzie, the novelist, has
leased, used to be conspicuous among the Channel
islets for its kangaroos and wallabies: they were
introduced many years ago, and the birthrate pros-
pered. The property used to belong to Count
Blucher. When war broke out it was equipped
with a wireless-station and petrol depot and played
a part in the Allies’ scheme of defence. A cousin of
Captain A. W. Pearse, of the Pastoral Review, was
architect for the magnificent home of the count, and
had many wallaby shoots witty that decorative
Teuton.
“Little Ragged Blossom,” May Gibbs’s
new book, should bring as much joy to the
heart of Young Australia as did “Snuggle-
pot and Cuddlepie,” judging by the pictures
of “Ragged Blossom’s” adventures. The Fish
Ball, for example, is as replete with mystery
and wonder as the same article upon any
plate in any restaurant. Just around the
corner on the Angus and Robertson’s shelves
are the plates of Nevill Cayley’s birds and
their eggs—some so high-priced that it
wouldn’t do to let the Housewives’ Associa-
tion hear of it. These are for the book that
naturalists Le Souef and Chas. Barrett have
in hand.
From “Vandorian” in London:—
Spent a recent Sunday afternoon with Mrs. Forster
Heddle— The Bulletin,, knew her in short frocks
as Millie Traill, daughter ofafits one-time editor.
Blue-eyed and vivacious, the mother of the house
hold keeps a tender memory of Sydney and its sun-
shine. Like other Australian women domiciled ii
Blighty, the former Sydney girl meets the high cos-
of being alive in England with an equally high
capacity for wrestling with after-war shortage of
domestic help, and gets more fun out of the struggle
than British matrons see in the fight to keep the
larder full.
Martin Donohoe, who has had as many escape*
as most men, has bought a house at Hampstead.
The only chance of keeping a roof over your head
in this congested isle is to find the purchase-money
and have some sure means of also finding the rates
and taxes. The Donohoes have given up their flat
in Paris, and will make their home in Blighty. The
house stands high up above the fogs on Parliament
Hill, with the green wolds of the ’Eath stretching
away towards the distance. The former Sydney
man (once on the Evening News) found life as a
war-correspondent not sufficiently thrilling; so in
the last two years of the struggle he laid down his
pen and emerged from the scrimmage a major. The
market continues to be greedy for his books.
“Wealsman”: Folks in the Speck are
arguing excitedly about what Hobart Mer-
cury describes as the “savage” sentence of
seven years handed to Trooper Smith by
Judge Ewing for the manslaughter of Bar-
nard Burgess, skipper of the Melbourne-
owned fishing ketch Myrtle Burgess, who
was shot dead in his motor-boat while
allegedly trying to evade arrest for illegally
trapping crayfish on the Tasmanian coast.
The Judge and jury took the view that the
trooper was not justified in shooting at the
boat (he said he was trying to hit the
petrol tank), as Burgess had given his name
and address and could have been made to
answer for his alleged misdemeanor by legal
process. But tin' seven-years’ sentence
created such an agitation in press and Par-
liament that Judge Ewing was asked by the
Government to furnish a report on the jury’s
verdict—guilty, with a recommendation to
mercy—and the sentence has been reduced
to six months. Even that should not be the
end of the matter. The Speck Government
must shoulder its share of blame for the
tragedy. Knowing the difficulty of catching
illegal fishers in the very act, it should have
provided its police with something more
effective and less deadly than a rifle with
which to overhaul the poachers. Failing
effective police and equipment no arrests
should have been ordered or attempted.


PROSPECTUS of the
Austral Oil Wells No Liability
(To be registered under the provisions of the Companies Act 1915.)
50,000 Sha, SS at *
share per month.
•W SSSJSS &'XuJT
agreements referred to below.
on non Shares to be held in reserve for future issue, subject to the right of
20,0 ° the above syndicate to take up the same at par at any time within two
years from the date of starting boring operations.
100,000
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS.
WILLIAM HOWARD LEWIS, of Autocar Industries, Limited (Tarrant Motors),
T>F 4 r SOn’HvILIjIA M* TEWKSBURY, of De Luxe Motor Service, Limited,
PE. ajid New oriental Hotel Company, Melbourne, Company Director.
JOHN ALSTON WALLACE, of Booabula Station, Wanganella, and of Autocar
Industries, Limited, Grazier.
GEOLOGIST AND ENGINEER.
Dr. K. R. MOURE, D.Sc., M.E., M.A.1.M.E., M.1.0.E., etc.
bankers.
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.
SOLICITORS..
GILLOTT, MOIR & AHERN, National Mutual Buildings, Melbourne.
AUDITORS.
To be appointed at First Meeting of Shareholders.
SECRETARY, PRO TEM., AND OFFICE.
11. S. EYTON, 58 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
T H ExpSio a n y ofopUonto boreTvirfous °
district Comprising a total of about 1000 acres. It is also intended to bore in other Gippsland localities
" hlC The a Vendor' l Syndicated not asking for any cash, being satisfied that its remuneration shall depend
upon the success of the venture. The whole of the cash subscribed will therefore go-to the credit
the Company, less only brokerage and flotation expenses. .. . .
In payment for the options mentioned above, the Vendor Syndiacte is to lecen e.
ril 30 000 fully paid up shares as enumerated above. ......
(b) The right to take up at par value at any time within two years of the date of starting bonng
onerations, the 20,000 shares held' in reserve. . ; _
(c) A royalty of 10 per cent, of the oil won by the Company. This royalty covers and includes
all royalties payable to the owners of the land over which the above-mentioned options
are held. , , , ... .
The Company may be registered when 37,000 shares have been applied foi.
Brokerage at the rate of sixpence per share will be payable in respect of the shares offered for sale.
The attached report of Dr. K. R. Moure, M.E., D.Sc., etc., etc., speaks for itself. Dr. Moure is a
specially qualified oil geologist and engineer, of world-wide repute, and he has had 30 years experience,
having worked on the principal oilfields in America, Europe and Asia. ,
The Vendor Syndicate has been specially fortunate in securing Ins services, over, which it has the
sole call for the next two years. It is intended that he shall be in control of the Company s boring
P The capital askSd for will be sufficient to put down several bores, as, no matter how promising
the prospects may be, it is considered inadvisable that the fate of the Company should depend upon the
results of only one or two bores. , , , . „
The work of procuring the necessary plant is well in, hand, and it is anticipated that actual boring
operations will be commenced at an early date. > , , , . , T , .
On the American and other oilfields the oil wells are frequently only about 200 ft. apart. It is
therefore evident that there is room on the proposed area for many wells. Or, if so desired, portion
of the areas could be disposed of to other companies or form the basis of new flotations.
It is scarcely necessary to point out that if any of the Company’s bores produce oil in commercial
quantities, the shares are likely to be an exceedingly valuable investment. So much is. this the case
that, although it is intended to try for the bonus of £50,000 offered by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, this bonus is only regarded as a minor consideration. In fact, there are good leasons for
expecting that this Company will be the means of providing a great national Australian industij.
In addition to the summary of Dr. Moure’s report, there will be found attached an extract from
the works of Sir Boverton Redwood, who is one of the standard authorities on petroleum. It will be
noted that he specially refers to the district in which it is intended to operate.
It will be also observed that, apart from surface indications, such as gas and oil films, Dr. Moure’s
report indicates that the geological conditions are in every way favorable to the existence of petroleum
in commercial quantities. Likewise there are large beds of oil-bearing shales in the district, and the
neighboring coal deposits are perhaps the most extensive in the world, one bore recently passing through
a thickness of 393 ft. of brown coal. It is from the natural distillation of this coal that the oil is
assumed to be derived.
As shares will be allotted according to priority of application, and as a considerable number of
shares has already been applied for, early application should be made to the Secretary, pro tern.
Applications may also be made through any member of the Melbourne or Sydney Stock Exchanges.
58 Flinders Lane,
30th November, 1920.
The original report (which may be inspected at the office of the syndicate)
gives details of the country traversed during the geological survey, which
extended from Omeo to Morwell. The following extracts contain the gist of
Dr. Moure’s conclusions :
CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION. *
“When considering the above area from a Geological standpoint, there seems to be no doubt that
we are dealing with a portion of exceedingly interesting country, with a well-defined series of anti-
clinal structure so dear to the heart of all who seek for Petroleum. The area under consideration
consists in the main of High-level Gravels, Clays, Sands, Coal-bearing Sandstones, Mudstones, Slates,
Coarse-grained Sandstones and Black Carbonaceous Clays.
“Throughout the whole of the country examined there are ample evidences of the gentle anti-
clinal foldings such as are found in other Oilfields in the World. There are parts which remind me
very much of Pennsylvania, but on the whole the parts under treatment are like the Oilfields of
California.
“The Pioneer Bore Site has been picked as the result of careful survey and plotting, after travel-
ling over and thoroughly examining many miles of complex and heavily masked country. It seems
to me that at this spot, with its distinctly anticlinal folding, we may expect our most favorable
results. It has been our experience in other parts of the world, that where extensive coalfields exist,
such as we have in Gippsland, the product derived from the natural distillation in the shape of
Liquid Hydro-Carbons was invariably found at the edge of the coalfields and in the anticlinal fold-
ings. There may, however, be something that cannot be foreseen at the present stage of the Company s
operations, that will lead the Company’s operators to cease work at this site, and to start afresh
at a position found more suitable by the evidence secured through the agency of the Drill, which all who
have ever had anything do with oil-well operations admit is the final umpire.
“In conclusion, I beg to point out that the impression formed by my examination of the whole
of the lands held by the Syndicate is that the likely petroliferous areas (of which I have advised
the' Syndicate) are decidedly favorable positions, and it is without hesitation that I recommend that
sections of such potentialities and in so excellent geographical positions, should be systematically and
scientifically exploited by the usual methods of deep boring, with a view of locating likely subter-
ranean reservoirs of oil in payable or commercially important quantities. IT IS THEREFORE MY
OPINION THAT THERE IS EVERY REASON TO EXPECT THAT SUCCESS IN THESE DIS-
TRICTS SHALL CROWN THE SYNDICATE’S ATTEMPTS TO LOCATE THE OIL.
“If boring be decided upon, I consider that it would be best for the Company to have their own
plant, so that they (the Company) would be in an independent position with regard to all boring
operations. Though some parts of the plant will be of a special type to handle deep work and facilitate
rapid operation, lam sure that the same can be secured or made in the Commonwealth. I further
recommend that a man with a first-class knowledge of Oil-well operations be secured, and the whole
of the proposition be entrusted to him. He would be held responsible for the carrying out of the
Field Superintendent’s orders.
“Hoping that the efforts of the Company will meet with every success in an undertaking that
might become one of national importance.
“I have the honour to remain, Gentlemen,
“Your obedient servant.
“(Signed) K. R. MOURE.”
Extract from “Petroleum” by the late Sir Boverton Redwood, the standard British authority on
the subject, who, in dealing with the State of Victoria, says (Vol. 1., page 190)
“Bitumen occurs in the Miocene of Portland, and in the Pliocene of Westernport, while the Permo-
Carboniferous is petroliferous on Coal Creek, and near Traralgon, on a small tributary of the Latrobe
River.”
No Better Value in Australia
than is offered in
BUCKLEY’S
SPECIAL SUIT
82 GUINEAS.
We are proud of our record of
achievement in the production
of SPECIAL SUIT at 84
GUINEAS. The materials are
all wool, made by the best
manufacturers in Australia, the
trimmings—the inside founda-
tions not seen by the purchaser
—are in keeping with the high-
grade Materials and hand-
tailoring which goes into every
Special Suit.
Buckley’s Special
Suit has another
advantage that
the materials, being
lighter in. weight
than most Austra-
lian-made Tweeds,
meet the need for
a highly-dependable
Suit at a Moderate
Price.
Write for samples
and self-measure-
ment form, sent
free on request,
quoting Ao. R 125.
5%
/ A
<3.-.
N-iWi
igee s
-vs
V:'.r
BUCKLEYS
BUCKLEY C NUNN LTD BOUR-KE ST. MEIE>OURNI
MAIL ORDER SERVICE
WE PAY CARRIAGE
TO ANV POST OFFICE
RAILWAY STN.OR PORT
IN AUSTRALIA
fd
su
ir»
I
1
'X
MSm
o**
2
THE INTERESTING STORY
OF “REX” PURE FOODS
is told in a most attractive way in this new 36 page booklet.
Handsomely printed in four colors, and freely illustrated, it is a
book of exceptional interest.
“A Little Journey” is not a book of recipes, it really takes you
through the “ Rex ” Kitchens - showing every process of prepar-
ing and packing the popular “ Rex delicacies.
It cost 6d. per copy to produce, but you can have one by return
post if you write now, enclosing Id. stamp to cover postage.
Send now to our nearest office and secure a copy of this helpful
interesting booklet.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
BRISBANE, SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE,
BENDIGO, PERTH, FREMANTLE.
J 3949


ifa H ~ ~ ~zzsV ^-C-Tv' J>
Pp ' % ;~I
v -rts! •*... ' u £ar’l .j.wr-•* —. -rr.-.Mifv
wirsE
awSSSSS
xgi^BmHmßE3sessa
SJfcSS?
•saasT-sa.
vMH
«=«..-
fc.'WSTOS’JK
hSSUSStf
ISMSS
I
:• ■ ■'- :
:.
sS
V.*
They’ll be dotted all over the Continent!
IfFrom the wash of the Pacific to the
languorous roll of the Indian Ocean the
flaming torch of the Silent Art is being
carried by UNION THEATRES, LTD.
fEast and West and North and South—
into Suburbia, country town and hamlet—
the perforated reels of good cheer, known
throughout the continent as UNION
THEATRE ATTRACTIONS, are ulti-
mately destined to go.
IJWhen the Symbol of Superlative Screen-
craft appears in your locality, sit up and
take notice, for then you will see the
motion-picture in its most artistic guise,
and presented in a manner worthy of the
noblest traditions of cinematography.
IfThere’ll be a UNION THEATRE
everywhere!
UNION THEATRES ALL-AUSTRALIAN CIRCUIT.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Tasmania and throughout the Commonwealth.
India, Java, Singapore, Japan and China.
Managing Directors: Edwin Geach, W. A. Gibson, Stuart F. Doyle.
Member M.P.A.A.
liilr
ssSjSSfsSo
'
II
SS§
y
88
'
• .
i
aft
;: :
£i*lis
■
~KS3?«£&22
S 3
Si*
"'.-• ? *l --:;-4j!
«p 2
POVERTY
POINT
Thoel & Thandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Norbell”: None of the animals “Yarra
Ben” specifies (B. 2/12/’2O) as attractions
advertised for “Chu Chin Chow” will be new
to the Australian stage. We have had
camels (“Ben Hur”), lions, monkeys, horses,
dogs, cows, donkeys, panto dragons and other
imported carnivora galore—including pro-
ducers. Bland Holt had a deer “on” the
first night of “For England” in. Melbourne
Royal. When the deer hounds came in full
cry from Little Bourke-street the deer ran to
meet them, and sniffed at them in the friendli-
est way. The common house-cat is another
animal that will not act, and absolutely re-
fuses to come on or go off to cue. We have
had kookaburras, kangaroos, ’possums, bears,
snakes, emus, magpies, cockies and sundries
—including several native-cats and Aus-
tralian devils (I won’t mention their sex).
An elephant appeared in drama at the Syd-
ney Lyceum in ’94, in “Round the World in
60 Days,” and Henrietta Watson made her
“OH KITTY,"
AT SYDNEY
PLAYHOUSE.
Gerald Harcourt as Philippe.
entrance on his back. He scored nightly by
calmly pinching the quaking comedian’s hat
from his head. The comedian, by the way, was
Robert Courtneidge, who as a Scotchman
dressed in Japanese costume sang an Irish
comic song in one scene.
“S.S.”: Sylvia Little, the Melbourne girl
who, as Sylvia Webb, made her dramatic
start with the “Lightning” Co. at Melbourne,
remained long enough in these latitudes to
familiarise herself with the stage, and then
fled to America, and is now appearing at
New York in Galsworthy’s “The Mob.”
“Stargazer”: A Florence Young story.
It was at an open-air performance in Mel-
bourne in aid of of the theatrical charities,
and the other actors and actresses were
there in their finest raiment, laughing and
criticising an absurd performance on the
ground. A shabby individual joined in, with
an air of being one of the party, and added
his opinions. He was really too far under
the influence, and the pros, drew off.
"Here,” said one of the party, a distinguished
comedjan, “shift your pegs}. You’re
encroaching.” The shabby individual re-
garded the comedian with derision. “Garrt!”
said he, “not one of the push of you would
be half as stuck up as you are if it wasn’t
for me.” “Oh,” answered Flo Young, “what
are you that you make us so stuck up—a
critic?” “Critic be damped!” replied the
seedy individual —“I’m a billposter !”
“Ibsenshaw”: When looking at “The Boy”
the other night, I couldn’t help the thought
that the Firm had a real bit of bad luck
with the production when Florrie Young died.
As Mrs. Meebles, which she was rehearsing
up to the time of her fatal seizure, Flo
would have been It. Iler performance
would have balanced what, as now presented,
is a lopsided piece. There is too much of
Mr. Meebles, the well-meaning exponent of
that gentleman’s better-half being colorless
and really no more than his quarter.
“T.D.M.”: Jamieson Dodds, the original
Andre of “The Lilac Domino” at the Lon-
don fimpi re, is
facially almost a
double of the late
Thomas Kingston,
for many years
leading man in
J.C.W. companies.
Dodds is thinner in
the face, but he has
the same big eyes
and curly hair.
Bob Greig, of the
Tivoli management,
spotted the resemb-
lance at once.
Dodds’s voice is
deep, yet in “The
Dilac Domino” he
sings high baritone.
His understudy at
the Empire was a
tenor. A native of
Newcastle-on-Tyne,
he lias done a good
deal of concert
singing, and sup-
ported Tetrazzini
and Marie Hall on
tour. He has also
specialised in ora-
torio and has sung
with many choral
societies. Sydney
has heard his
canned voice, and
“Oh Kitty, ” at Sydney
Playhouse.
Geo. Whitehead as
Captain Lovelace.
will have the opportunity to hear him in the
flesh on December 18.
Finkelstein, managing director of Adelaide
Wondergraph Co. since its picture-theatre
started, has dropped out now that the Para-
mount Co. has taken charge. Heathcote,
a son of the brilliant Uhitarian parson who
used to be an Anglican ditto, is to look
after things locally, and Finkelstein, who
remains a director, has just left for a long
holiday—combined with business —in New
Guinea.
“D. Deadeye”: I hear we are likely to
have “Ruddigore” during the present Gilbert
and Sullivan season. Splendid ! To mv minu
it is quite as good as any of them. Sullivan
never composed better music and Gilbert
was never hapjjier in his libretto.- But it
wasn’t a big winner even in England. It
followed the huge popular success, “Mikado,”
at the Savoy. That was disastrous. On its
first night (when its title was spelt “Ruddy-
gore”) a galleryite at the fall of the curtain
expressed the feeling of his part of the house
by yelling out: “Take it off and give us ‘The
Mikado.’ ”
“Old Pot” : Gaston Mervale, who has been
engaged for the production of “The Lilac
Domino” at Sydney Tivoli, came to Australia
to support Julius Knight and appeared in the
memorable season in which “The Sign of the
Cross” and several romantic plays drew all
Sydney. As a sardonic and polished villain
Mervale has few equals. He is a fine
musician, and that was of great value to him
when he played Svengali in “Trilby.” Prior
to M,ervale’s study of the hypnotic pianist
Reuben Fax was thought to be unapproach-
able ; but Mervale knocked that idea end-
ways.
“Orb”: “J.R.D.’s” reference to the skirt-
dancing Yarmouth (B. 2/12/’2O) reminds me
that in the early ’nineties the noble earl was
a prominent and popular figure in and about
Mackay (N.Q.). He once put on there a
successful comic opera with amateurs, and
dressed the entire she-chorus out of the
material of one of his own ballet skirts—some
100 yards or so of expensive flimsy.
“Norbell”: It took “Shore Acres” 27 years
to travel to Australia, via Noo Yoik, and
Australia could have endured waiting even
longer. The play presents a presumably
faithful picture of a certain kind of rural
life, alleged to be found in the U.S A.
Whether or no the picture is worth pren
senting is questionable. “In Mizzoura” was
of the same vintage, being also a Noo Yoik
thrill of 93. Nat C. Goodwin brought it to
Australia a couple of years later, and it is
only remembered now as the lowest-tempera-
ttire frost on record.
“Old Pot”: One can understand the
“economy” which has caused managers to
charge for programmes, but the merciless
cutting of the Saturday advertisements is a
crime against Stageland. In the old days one
could snip out the casts of the various pro-
ductions and paste them in a scrap-book
for reference, and many a manager’s obituary
has been written from the data thus obtained,
as most managers have been actors and their
life’s work has been enshrined in page 2.
“The Nameless Mummer” (B. 2/12/’2O) has
a grievance indeed, and it is to be hoped
that the Society of Mummers will success-
fully protest against their non-identification.
“Kalabon” : The picture show of Darwin
(N.T.) is an education to those who know
only the theatres of southern civilisation.
Nominally it is divided into two classes, white
and black; in reality there are three —the
decent white residents of the town and their
ladies, who sit in front; the indeterminate,
polyglot mass of white men who are found
on the fringes of civilisation, and who sit in
the middle; the colored section, which in-
cludes anything from the prosperous Chinese
storekeeper, with his several wives, to our
own shiftless black brother and his lubra,
who occupy the back seats. The programme
is anything from one to four years old, but
is enjoyed vociferously by the back seats,
whose enthusiasm knows no bounds when
there appears upon the screen a vision of
loveliness. Upon the middle seats the
entertainment is more or less lost, as they
have, as a rule, just left the pub, and are
finding the darkness conducive to slumber.
Their snores form a deep bass to the tinkling
piano which comprises the orchestra. In the
front seats the men look on serene in im-
maculate white ducks and the comfortable
feeling of superiority over the other two-
thirds of the audience.
“Stargazer” : Alfred Lorring’s London and
New York Comedy Co. was showing at Pina-
fore. The hall was owned by Ford, and
was really a barn, but Alfred and his artists
were doing their best to present “Our Boys”
under the title of “The Butterman,” and did
well enough till the cockatoo interfered. The
cockatoo was Ford’s, and was perched up on
one of the exposed rafters, apparently taking
an absorbed interest in the comedy, but,
suddenly feeling the cravings of the dramatic
neophyte, he assumed a speaking part early
in Act 2. The bird threw in a lot of aimless
and irrelevant chatter, and when the butter-
man endeavored to shout him down, uttered
a shrill yell, and cried feelingly: "One fool
at a time!” Then he gabbled so much, find-
ing the sympathies of the audience with him,
that further progress of the comedy was im-
possible. The curtain was dropped, and
Alfred, the actor manager, came before it to
expostulate. But cocky was the more shrill
speaker, and Alfred lost his head. Rushing
off he reappeared with an old property gun.
He took two shots at the cockatoo, who
loudly admonished him while fluttering ex-
citedly against the iron roof. Lorring was a
bad shot, and there was nothing for it but io
continue the play in defiance of the discon-
certing interpolations. Next night the hall
was packed, Lorring was proud and delighted,
and the comedy went off with a great swing.
But presently the house began to fidget, and
eventually a cry for “Sulphur!” went up.
It became a clamor. Lorring was heart-
broken. “I was never so bitterly insulted,”
said he later- —“a company of artists was
never so outraged. Sulphur was Ford’s bird.
That fine audience had come to see the
infernal cockatoo.”
“Hapier” : Lithgow (N.S.W.) Trades Hall
has paid its way out of pawn on a picture-
show business. Over four years ago there
was a building debt of £3900, and the
Trades Hall committee had only £l9 in the
bank; the debt on the hall, owing to the
picture enterprise, has been reduced to
£2834, there is £lB3B in the bank, and the
picture business, having fulfilled its purpose,
is being sold for £9OO. The settlement will
leave £96 still owing, it is proposed to
meet that out of revenue.
“A Royal Divorce,” stagey but effective,
must now be joined with “East Lynne”:
either‘will bear revival anywhere and any
time. English mummers lately playing it in
London, after a long tour of the “provinces,”
reported that they had been told in Birming-
ham* “This is the 60th time the play has come
here,” and in Manchester “This is the 70th.”
It was already old when Julius Caesar —or
was it Knight?—brought it to Australia.
If Oscar Asche’s “Chu Chin Chow” gets
over the Christmas holidays in London it
will have run for four years and a half
straight off —since August 13, 1916.
“Yarra Ben”: By 17 votes to 10 the gen-
eral purposes committee of the Melbourne
City Council decided that the move-on law
should be applied to street musicians. This
means that the rattle of the boxes will no
more be heard in Melbourne’s thoroughfares.
And the bands have only themselves to
thank. As one councillor put it, in one of
them there were nine players and five col-
lectors.
“Mirza”: A Melbourne display of Lowell
Thomas’s souvenirs has corrected a host of
erroneous notions about the campaign in
“The Girl for the
Boy” at
Sydney Tivoli.
The hoy for the girl—
Clay Smith.
Asia Minor. Be-
hind the usual col-
lection of military
debris hangs a por-
trait in color of
“the mysterious
Colonel Lawrence,
whose magnificent
exploits among the
native tribes pass
our surmising.”
(He kept Feisal
supplied with cash
and cocoanut-oil.)
There is also a
priceless relic—a
complete costume
once worn by
Feisal’s right-hand
man, but it is
rather th e worse
for wear and the
most rapacious rag-
profiteer would
hesitate to charge
3 0 bob for it.
Again, there is a
life-size portrait of
Thomas himself, in
an ancient and ill-
fitting Arabian out-
fit. The effect of
the toot ongsongble
is to leave you con-
vinced that, apart
from the trifling
assistance re-
ceived from
Allenby and his
myrmidons, Palestine and Syria were cap-
tured by Lawrence, Peisal and Thomas.
Chauvel and the A.I.F. must have arrived
later.
A swom-to yarn of mistaken identity: —
A neighbor had persuaded Carne to accommodate
(let’s say) Spargo for a couple of weeks. Spargo
was a very well-known Melbourne singer whose
nerves had given way, and who had been ordered
rest and change in the country. He was expected
to arrive at Windfall on Wednesday or Thursday.
On Wednesday at half-past four a man carrying a
portmanteau had walked in at Carne’s front door and
had thrown his luggage under the parlor table and
gone to sleep on the best bed, sacred to Carne and
his missus. These actions were put down to the
eccentricities of genius aggravated by neuritis, and
the stranger was directed to his own little bed.
Later he was seen sleeping with his feet out of the
front window. He had a habit of dozing much by
day, and wandering and eating much by night. He
would go out at unearthly hours, and preach against
the doctrine of transubstantiation to the ’possums.
But the Carnes bore with their lodger, because he
was an afflicted man whose diseases, might be expected
to succumb to the scenery and the open air. Then
came a letter to say that Spargo had been unable to
leave home, but it was expected that he would be
well enough to travel in a few days. With the
letter in his hand, and backed by his astonished
family, the astounded Carne confronted his boarder.
“It seems you are not Spargo,” said Carne. “No,”
said the man, “and never was.” “Then who are
you?” “I am the Smiths’ mad uncle,” said the man.
"“Which Smiths?” gasped Carne. “My nephews,”
said the man. “I am the Srriiths’ mad uncle.” And
that is all they could get out of him. When the
police removed him to the Receiving House he gave
no other clue to his identity. “I am the Smiths’
mad uncle,” he said. Smiths who might have mis-
laid a mad uncle have been urgently appealed to,
but have preserved their incognito. Evidently there
is among the Smiths a determination to shirk their
responsibilities in the matter of mad uncles.
PLAY OR PLOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Japanese Business Gent requires board and resi-
dence with refined family ; prefer someone who can
help singing at home.’’—S. M. Herald advt.
Here is your chance, oh! ye wild Stratlifield tenors!
Here opportunity for audience!
A chance for all Salvationist amen-ers
To split the welkin and tear down the fence!
A business gent who hails from distant Nippon
Requires some ears to exercise hi's lip on.
“A family refined’’ for board and bed
To help the business gent to sing at home—
Singing at dd.sk when he has been full fed,
To drive the suffering neighbors forth to roam;
To kill the aged, blight the sucking baby,
By singing “Just One More” or “My Boy Abey.”
Or is it that the Jap gent hates suburban
Tenors, and wants, someone who can help singing?
Wishes he people who can put a curb on
The howls that set suburban welkins ringing?
Does the Jap business gentleman feel pain
At those who refrain not ..from the refrain ?
«*
Or is it that his Oriental yearning
To hide the fact that Japs stone-deaf are born
Sets him on fire with wild ambition burning
To practise vocal scales at night and morn ?
Plans he to add new terror to the night
Singing that he is “melly”; also “blight” ?
Or is it that he plans a new invasion,
To make all white Australians run away,
And leave our land, when he has found occasion
To lay Australia waste with howl and bray ?
To make Australians run and never stop,
All terrorised by Tokio Fugue and Op.?
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
THE TURNING OF THE TIDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Chief of Police at Lausanne (Switzerland)
has banned ‘Measure for Measure’ because of its
‘pornographic character.’ ” — Cable.
I met Paul Lancy Forth de Lane,
The noted actor who
Had played Othello and the Dane
And Falstaff a.vd wild Cawdor’s - Thane
And Caesar and the Jew
Throughout the land to houses small,
And sometimes to no house at all.
But nothing ■ could his hope dtstroy,
And now his step was light.
He greeted me with pride and joy
And rumbled hoarsely, “Well, my boy,
Admit that I was right-—■
I always claimed I’d see the day
When Shakspeare’s stuff would really pay.
“A kind policeman in Lausanne
Has banned Will’s works, I hear,
Because they taint the heart of man;
Now as an ancient Thespian
I see the dawn is near —-
Soon will the Bard be all the craze
And draw as 'well as ‘bedroom’ plays.”
VICTORIA.
CUTHBERT CUTPURSE.


/.
m
■
7
X
m*
ErNTIRErLY IN rtUSTRtfJJd
.
... .
a
■
I
& - < '•
•: \\
■;t 'LJo -
¥
, /
ex
r,i# i'
r JRi
m wst
H
si
n
m , :
■v • U
■
... .7
11
:
H
; Ax 'I
X.
e > X.
7
1 ,0
asm
mi
■
11
■
as
■Hyn
k ; 2I
■
■■■■■■aa
.<
Hi
? i
■
i.i
&
7;
>.-*■
»
an
; :
K
* V •
II
e
II
M
::
: H
i*Si
■
«a
a
r
:
H
iflH
a
;
I
■
/v
iSwsfc
IH
ga
•' n*.
m
m*
H
B
i
. B
a
■
A
agggl
■
ML
X-
>rs
H
:
Chocolates de Luxe
for CHRISTMAS, 1920
There is no gift appreciated so much
as a box of “Hillier’s” famous chocolates.
Send us her address, together with Postal
Note covering the size box you require,
and we will mail chocolates on the day
they are made.
No others just as good; no others any-
where near equal.
You can absolutely taste the quality.
Packed always in red boxes—
3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6, 20/- and 30/-
Post Free to Any Address in Australia.
162 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Pure as the Lily ,
Fresh as the Rose.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & GO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &
WIiITTY
MAKERS
. mm
m.
■m
;-' ' J v . ;>>;
: tl??fowr
aft®
iang«nj^
««&£
J/ie finest Spirit in.
• 'V/*
£2^
WHISKY
NOT ONLY DISTILLED
BUTALSO BOTTLED UNDER
GOVERNMENT SUPERVISION
lU.ED tNAUSTBMA
moPAietoas
auam ftsnu£« v
Although figures are not always a true
index of batting strength, aggregates of the English
XI thusfar show that the scoring has fallen on few
shoulders. Pat Hendren, the nuggety whirlwind,
has been most consistent, and in seven innings hasn’t
missed double figures. He tops the aggregates with
406, averaging 67.66. J. W. Hearne (362, averag-
ing 72.4) has better figures for the fall of wickets.
J. B. Hobbs (385, averaging 64.16), A. C. Russell
(368, averaging 52.57) and H. Makepeace (200,
averaging 50) alone have scored the double-century.
Except for his 84 v. Queensland Douglas has failed
with 4,0, 11, 0.
Left-hander P. Hornibrook’s showing
with Queensland (3 for 89) and the Australian XI (4
for 80) against England was the best form of a
“wrong-hander” in big cricket this season. W. J.
Whitty (S. Aus.) and C. Griffiths (N.S.W.) have
failed badly in other matches; and Collins and
Macartney have given up the ball for the bat. If
a left-hander is needed in the “Tests,” Hornibrook
may get a chance before the season is ended.
England’s “express” bowler, J. Hitch, had
his first trial against the Australian XI at Brisbane
last week, but didn’t make much impression. His
figures were o—3l and I—4o.1 —40. A smash in a picnic
game in Adelaide had put him aside for repairs while
previous matches were played.
* * * *
Douglas (5 w. for 45) bowled very well
in Australia’s first innings ,at Brisbane. He evi-
dently keeps himself on a lot so that the opposition
won’t get too used to his other bowlers. Tozer (51)
gave a first-class dis-
play ; and Macartney
brought every stroke
in his extensive bag
into use. Like his
club-mate Taylor in the
inter-State game, he
just failed to reach
three figures. Moore,
the Bananaland rep.
batsman, had to face
the bowling too soon,
as Collins did not last
long. In England’s
first innings Russell
got 72 and Hendren
96. The former seems
to be only a fair
average sticker, but
the Irishman, besides
being brilliant and a
hitter, is as hard to
shift as a rock. Hobbs
went cheaply, and
Douglas, for a change,
got in front of one
before scoring. Car-
ter was very accom-
plished behind, and
the absence of a fast
bowler showed him at
his best.
F. E. WOOLLEY,
of the English XI.
The match ended in a draw, with five Austra-
lian wickets down in the second innings for 182.
Tozer and Carter, who opened, made 53 and 50
respectively, and Armstrong and Trenerry were
together when the light failed. Douglas tried six of
his bowlers, including himself,, but none of them
seemed capable of holding the batsmen up to any
extent.
Sydney grade cricketers postponed their
strife on Saturday to watch N. S. Wales take a loan
of the South Aus. bowling. The S. Australians began
their unequal straggle in the field late on Friday
afternoon, after an all-night train journey on top
of the prolonged Victorian match. Vet their field-
ing was admirable, O. Pellew and Bridgeman shin-
ing here with particular iridescence. J. M. Taylor’s
batting was an oasis in a desert of dulness, and
the way he lost his wicket, when within a stroke of
the hundred, was reminiscent of Clem Hill’s run of
bad luck in these contests. Bogle, who m the past
has shown a partiality for S. Australian bowling,
played in a very restrained manner for 103. Kelle-
way, although he got 108, was at his worst as a
spectacular batsman. When he did attempt to
smite he smote at the wrong ball and was leniently
treated by ’keeper and fieldsmen. Bardsley (235)
showed extreme caution at times, but he was always
confident. The bowling, despite the figures, wag good
length and on the spot.
Considerable bitterness was expressed by
the S. Aus. players at the action of the N; S. Wales
Cricket Assoc, in forcing them into the field on
Friday. Also by many of the N. S. AVales players
and by most of the cricketing public. Anything- more
crudely unsporting it would be hard to imagine, and
the lid was put on a thoroughly sordid episode by
Frank Iredale’s letter to the S. Aus. manager, couched
in the phraseology of a debt-collecting- agency, and
beginning: “I am directed to write and ask if
you will kindly give me an explanation of the delay
of your team in not arriving in time,” etc., etc.
But for the gate-money factor the visitors would -not
have even had to ask for a postponement; but the
damage being done, Kelleway might have helped to
right it bv putting the weary visitors in when he
won the toss, it is the practice of little amenities
like this that has always differentiated cricket from
such sports as rat-hunting- and dog-fighting.
Victoria’s heavy scoring against South
Aus. in this year’s Sheffield Shield matches will be
helpful if the final decision is left to averages.
Last year it was decided in that way. In the first
match, Vic. scored 639 for 10 wickets against 560 for
20 wickets; in the second Vie. amassed 1034 for 20
wickets against 649 for 20 wickets —a mountain of
1673 30 wickets against 1209 for 40 wickets.
“Abdo.”: During the Vie.-S. Aus. match
spectators were bewildered by occasional outbursts
from a section in the stand enclosure. The creators
of the row had betted on whether Crockett or Alessio
would lead the way through the entrance gate; also
as to which of them would reach the wicket first.
The advent of Liddicutt and Ellis, the batsmen after
the tea adjournment, and later on of Pellew and
Richardson, provoked fresh cheers from the winners,
and later sweepstakes were instituted, the prizes going
to those who drew the three highest scorers. If
this idea develops the roar of the ring will be
nothing to the roar of the oval as some hot batting
favorite is left at the post with a blob.
Melbourne had the biggest win in Mel-
bourne district cricket on Saturday. Closing with
6 for 260 in response to Richmond’s first total of
64, they dismissed the enemy again for 151, thus
winning outright by an innings and 45. Mel-
bourne’s best were Vaughan (100 n. 0.) and Arm-
strong (87 unfinished —he went off to Brisbane).
Melbourne’s able left-hander, Ironmonger, who is being
unjustly overlooked for inter-State cricket, had
the best bowling figures—4 for 60. P’ran, though
far behind University’s 347, managed to sneak a
draw with 9 for 245 when the hell rang. L. Free-
mantle led the students’ attack and finished the
day with 6 for 97. Fitzroy were 107 runs ahead
with a wicket to spare against ’Wood’s 141, ’Roy’s
best bat, Liddicutt, making 59 n.o. in very bright
style. Caddy (86) was top scorer for North, but
with four duck-eggs in the rest of the score North
only managed 207, or 53 behind South’s tally last
Saturday. East scored a first-hits win by 16 over
Northcote. Mainly through the energy of Carroll
(107) ’Cote totalled 234. H. L. Carroll (93) and
Davies (85) were the mainstay of Essendon, but
St. Ivilda (259) got home on the first hits by 15
runs.
A Governor-General and his staff turned
up at a big fight for the first time in Australian
history on Saturday night. The place was the Syd-
ney Stadium, and the occasion the long-anticipated
engagement between Arthur Wyns and Joe Symonds.
Wyns won twice over —in the third round, when he
banged Symonds through the ropes, out to the world,
only to see the Englishman helped back, after a
period of recuperation, by the referee; and again in
the seventh, when Symonds fouled in a manner in-
explicable in one of his class. Yet Symonds won
four-fifths of the affair on points, and he was clearly
the Belgian’s master most of the time. It was a
night of strange happenings, and in the midst of
them a ringside patron so far forgot his thirst as
to throw a full bottle of beer into the ring. Symonds
and Wyns are to meet again, and provided the Brit-
isher doesn’t leave himself open to the enemy’s
terrific right cross, and assuming he doesn’t foul,
Belgium should be ravaged as never before.
* * * *
The Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron’s in-
vitation handicap attracted seven starters last Satur-
day, including Yeulba. with the G.-G. on the bridge.
The yachts and their handicaps were: Oenone (J. M.
Brunton), 29min. ; Magic (Roy Stevens), 17min. ;
Sunbeam (Dr. A. Marks) and Scotia (C. T. Brock-
hoff), 14min. ; Aoma (Stan Stevens) and Yeulba
(Lord Forster), 12min. ; Bona (Len Patrick),
scratch. The fleet worked the western shore at the
start in the hope of snaring a lift from the east
and Sunbeam’s windward qualities were soon found
wanting. A great go between Oenone and Magic saw'
the limit boat ease away at the Village mark, with
a 4jmin. lead. Scotia rounded next 4min.
later, with Aoma lOsec. further astern, followed by
Yeulba 55 seconds further away. Sunbeam, sailing
like a log, didn’t square away until Yeulba was
lmin. 55see. on her journey to Shark Island. Bona,
with her big canvas setting beautifully, was last
round. For the run to Shark Island topsails and
spinnakers were sent aloft. Oenone came back a
little to Magic, and Scotia maintained her position
whilst Sunbeam as usual came along off a wind
like a meteor, displacing Aoma and Yeulba. At
Shark Island spinnakers were replaced by leading
extras. Off Pinchgut the generalship of Roy Stevens
prevailed. In the freshening breeze Magic simply
danced to windward. Here it was also that the vice-
regal barge failed, for on the punch back to. Wat-
son’s Bay she was as dead as Pharaoh’s grandfather.
Oenone rounded the Watson’s Bay mark with a jiffy
to spare from the superbly-handled Magic ; and Sun-
beam, with her usual windward sluggishness, was
llrnin. further away, third. Then came Aona,
45sec. later, fourth, one minute ahead of the scratch
craft, Bona, which had outsailed both Yeulba and.
bcotm. On the run home Magic headed Oenone off
steel Point and Bona passed Scotia. Roy Stevens
kept his charge going splendidly and lobbed home
with 17sec. to spare from Oenone, which had
ljnnn. of a lead trom Sunbeam, with Bona 70sec.
further away, followed by Scotia, Aoma and Yeulba
which finished 7min. alter the first boat. In the
Oiub's race for cruisers Don Taylor notched his
third win m Triton off the honor mark. * He had only
usee, to spare from Oscar Backhouse’s Dawn, with Stan
Spam m command of Mischief, limin. further
away third. Six started.
Albert Park collected the most silverware
in the Yarra Regatta on Saturday. The old club
won the Junior -Pairs, Junior Fours, and Light-
weight Maiden Fours, was second in the Maiden
lairs, and was just beaten in the Senior Eights by
Mercantile. Six heats were necessary for the
Maiden Eights, which ultimately went to Haw-
thorn by three-quarters of a boat. Corio reached
home a length and a quarter ahead of Hawthorn in
the Senior Pairs. Banks bagged the Maiden Fours
in good style, and Ballarat led the straggling pro-
cession in the final of the Maiden Pairs. A Daw-
son (Barwon) and O. A. Usher (Corio Bay) got
the verdict in the Maiden and Junior Sculls.
The N. S. Wales eight.-oar championship
ince on the Parramatta on Saturday was an unsatis-
factory event, and Leichhardt had luck in winning.
Balmain and Druimnoyne fouled early, and Mosman,
when in winning position, crashed into a moving
launch. Even then Leichhardt got in by less than
a length from Balmain, holders of the title, who were
pulling well in the later stages. Time, 17min. übsec.
J. J. Lewis stroked Leichhardt, and J. McQueen
Balmain. Mosman won the maiden fours and light-
weight maiden fours; and Glebe romped away with
the junior fours.
Sydney’s juvenile swimmers had a day out
on Saturday, when Allen Penfold, a 15-year-old
Manly boy, did 200yds. in 2tnin. 30sec., and E.
Kenny (10), of Mosman, swam the 400yds. in smin.
31 sec., which is 3sec. better than his previous best
for the distance. J. Degotardi (16), East Sydney,
splashed over the hundred in 63see., while 0. M.
Munro, Bondi Club’s 14-year-old champion, negoti-
ated the distance in OOsec. Incidentally, Marjorie
Macdonald, of the Spit Club, sped over 50.yds. in
30sec., which is but 3sec. outside Fanny Durack’s
world’s best. Marjorie was only just beaten in the
50yds. State Championship last year by Mina Wylie.
The Yankee swimmihg. team, which will
arrive in N. S. Wales on the first day of 1921,
consists of Duke Kahanamoku, Pau Kealoha and
Ludy Langer. They represent the top form of
world’s swimming—unless Norman Ross be judged
better over the Jong distances. The team will go
the round of State and Australian championships,
and will plunge at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Hobart and Adelaide,., and, later, in Maoriland. In
the fixtures Kahanamoku will swim in the lOO.vds.
and 220yds. ; Kealoha in 220yds. and 440yds. ;
Langer in 440yds., half-mile and mile champion-
ships.
Though <q long way above himself and
quoted at write-your-own-ticket prices, the Eudorus
horse Eudois put in a surprisingly smart run at
the end of a suburban Weltler Flying a few weeks
ago, and only missed winning by inches. When
the weights for the Villiers came out he was one
of the first horses backed; and at Rosehill on
Saturday, in a field of 15, he was backed down to
5 to 2 in the Flying. However, he moved off far
too slowly to win a Villiers, and though running
on well at the end was never a winner. He is a
fine-looking horse, and has a lot of pace, but his
deceptive ways cause diversity of opinion. One
jockey who has ridden him swears he couldn’t win
a truly run-out mile in a thousand tries ; another
gives him a really good Villiers chance. So there
you are.
The good mare Carlita—the same who
started eight times in her second year and was only
once unplaced—has- handed on some of her speed
to the first of her family. This is Linita, a filly
of which the owner of Salitros is part-proprietor.
On Saturday at Rosehill the young lady annexed a
division of the Nursery Handicap from an expensive
lot of runners. It isn’t usual for a first-class racing
mare to produce anything of much consequence, and
as a general thing early two-year-olds gravitate to
the scrapheap. But there are exceptions, and
Linita looks good enough to be one of them.
Of the six youngsters placed in the
two divisions of the Nursery Handicap at Rosehill
on Saturday five were acquired at last year’s sales
for a total of £3300. With a lot of other costly
juveniles they were being rushed in pursuit of a
prize of £lO5 —and, incidentally, having their
future chances of winning good races heavily dis-
counted.
**> . * *
Fairy Bob (Bernard —Fairy Gold) fol-
lowed up his Sandgate Handicap by winning the
Windsor Handicap (If mile) at the Bananaland Turf
Club’s Summer Meeting and equalling the Austral-
asian record of 2min. 59sec. put up by Dusky Eve
at Wanganui (M.L.) in 1919. The horse, however,
carried 161 b. more than the Maori lady. The Flying
at the same meeting was a duel between Gold Tie
and Molly’s Robe, and the Malster horse prevailed
by a head. Another Malster in Admetus beat Owissa
a neck in the Champion Stakes (sfur.) in lmin.
2sec.
A new Australian record for half a mile
on registered courses was created by Sir Pendil in
a pony race at Ballarat last week, the Pendil-
Yarrani’s Sister gelding running the distance in
4Sjsec. The previous best time was registered by
Sefton in V.A.T.C. Debutant Stakes last October —
48jsec. The Australasian record is held by Surveyor.
His time at Riccarton (M.L.) was 45 3 : ssee.
Last week the V.B.C. adopted some
amendments to Rule 119 relating to jockeys’ fees.
Riders henceforth will get increased payment in
races of small value. For a winning mount on the
flat when the value of the prize to the winner does
not exceed £3O, the fee is to be £1 and 5 p.c. of
the value of the stajee. Another amendment provides
for a minimum losing fee of £1 for jockeys, no
matter how small the stake money.
“Old Horseman”: I often saw Carpentier
going with one or another of the lads behind the
lines, and formed a great impression of the French-
man. He is a dazzling boxer in a spar, and none
of the lads—pretty good in an amateurish way some
of them—could do a thing with him. He gives no
idea of the weight of his -punch to an onlooker, but
the man in the ring has his own opinions about it.
A chip that looked
worth nothing would
put a big, hefty man
dozing. Of all the
boxers I have seen Car-
pentier reminded me
most of Peter Jackson.
Much of his action is
Black Peter over again,
and he has the same
disconcerting knack of
getting in an outing
punch from almost
anywhere. His practi-
cally unmarked con
di'tion after the solid
lighting he has done
testifies to the snake-
like velocity of his
head. He keeps his
face out of trouble
with miraculous certi-
tude, and if he is ever
licked it will be with
body punches. There
is small sense in fight-
ing for a head that has
the lightning sudden-
ness Georges has de-
veloped.
EUGENE
CRIQUI, who
knocked out Jack
Green.
Now that Eurythmic has left Westralia
Bohans is the best horse in that State. The pair
met'in a weight-for-age race at Perth last Easter;
the Bobadil gelding was favorite, but the handsome
chestnut beat him comfortably. On Saturday Boharis
(9 to 2) won the w.f.a. December Stakes, defeating a
field which included Sam Mackay’s Wallace horse
Outlook, an even-money favorite. Bardus, the Kal-
goorlie Cup winner, accounted for the 10-furlong
York Handicap, and promises to be dangerous in the
Perth Cup. Carrying 9st. 71b. Easingwold, the
Eaton Lad colt which the Westralians class as an-
other Eurythmic, added the Nursery Handicap to his
list of victories and looks a certainty for the Karra-
katta Plate, the big two-year-old race of the year in
the Sunset State.
Norman and Frank Peach kept up the
habit of landing tennis championships on Saturday,
and outplayed Jim Anderson and Eric Pockley for the
Sydney Club doubles in three straight sets. The
brothers’ record in doubles has never been excelled
in N. S. Wales tennis.
The titbit of the Dunn Challenge Club
Championships at Sydney on Saturday was the world’s
record hop, step and jump by A. W. Winter (South
Sydney). In three efforts he did 47ft. 3in., 48ft.
and 48ft. 2Jin. —the last an improvement of 7Jin.
on his last year’s record. Winter, who is a right-
footed jumper, gets great power in the hop, and,
conserving strength in the step, finishes with a
powerful low jurrip. He keeps his feet well on land-
ing. Winter also won the discus throw with 102 ft.
sin., which was 13ft. lOin. better than the effort of
F. Earnell (East Sydney). Policeman Carl Ferguson
(holder) won the hammer throw with 114 ft. 6in. ;
the 220yds. sprint went to P. Tranquille (Western
Suburbs) in 22 4-ssee. ; and F. Guider’s (South
Sydney) fine finish took the half-mile in 2min. Bsec.
The high jumpers had a hard time with the shaking
bar, and J. K. Harbison (Uni.) and J. Manning
(South Sydney) did well to dead-heat with sft. Bin.
George Parker (Western Suburbs), still much above
condition, won the mile walk in 7min. 13 2-ssec.
H. W. Anderson (Uni.) took the 440yds. hurdles
(3ft. flights) in 62 2-ssec. The three miles was a
freat tussle, and 11. G. Grandemange (Botany) and
1. L. Sheaves (South Sydney)—despite that the
latter was spiked in the early part of thj race —rarely
had more than five yards between them, ffrandmange,
sprinting finely in the last furlong, won by 10yds. in
16min. 21sec. H. Hayden (Botany) was 150yds.
away, but the pace smashed up the balance of the
field. The sum-up of points gave University (33) an
easy win, with Souths (20), Easts (19), Wests (14),
Botany and Police (9 each), and Redfern (4).
In the Victorian inter-club challenge com-
petitions J. D. Begg (Melb. Grammar) brilliantly
defeated B. J. Linehan (Australasian quarter cham-
pion). It was the best time performance among
the dozen club reps. H. L. Davis’s defeat of Aus-
tralasian champion W. H. Brown over a mile in
4min. 57)see. was another great effort. Begg and
Davis donned St. Stephen’s colors and have rep.
possibilities. Veteran W. Murray (Melb.) put up
the best time (7min. 35 l-ssec.) in the mile walk;
and A. S. Fitzpatrick (St. Stephen’s) and E. T.
Kelly (Carlton) both recorded 16 2-ssec. over the
120yds. hurdles.
* * * *
Victoria badly defeated visiting N.S.W.
bowlers at Melbourne last week by 99 —93, 116—69,
and 115—67: an aggregate of 330 points to 229.
Victoria was “up” in nine rinks against' N.S.W.’s
three. The only winning Sydney “skips” were Alder-
son and Flook.
In the N.S.W. motor speed pennant in
Sydney Harbor on Saturday 100-h.p. Wallaby covered 10
miles in 25min. 31sec. Hoosier finished 7min. 2sec.,
and Neranghi 7min. 9sec. later. Wallaby averaged 26
m.p.h., and owners V. H. Evans and A. V. Turner
reckon she can do 30m.p.h. The flier is a certain
challenger of the South Australian owned Tortoise
for the Australian speed championship and Griffiths
Shield.
* * * »
In a brilliant finish Alf Grenda christened
his return to Australia by winning the five-miie
scratch race in llmin. 29 2-ssec. at the Sydney
cycling carnival on Saturday. The improving C. L.
Papworth was only defeated by a yard. Another
home-comer, “Jackie” Clark, teaming with E. A.
Priestley, won the old-style tandem race; and A. J.
Davies took the five-mile motor-paced whirl in 9min.
27 l-ssec.
FORTUNE’S FAVORITES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The bookmakers’ bags at Ascot were taxed to
their utmost yesterday to hold the bundles of notes
lodged with them by the punters.”— Sun.
Is it not strange that men should take to trades,
Or gamble with the weather on the land,
While cold-eyed Fortune steadily evades
Their coy attempts to take her by> the hand,
When they may pile up cash like anything
By making certain noises in a ring?
The same police who chase two-upping whites
And break in doors to get at gambling Chows,
Stand firmly by the bookie and his rights.
The Law by some odd Veasoning allows
Only this form df wagering where one
Must always win, the rest be always done.
No forty-eight hour week the bookie toils:
He never starts his working day till noon,
And briskly hurries homeward with the spoils
Long ere the evening shadows start to swoon.
Yet in that time you'll often see him take
What scores of fools have worked long months to
make.
He is oblivious to H.C.L.,
And cheers the spending craze so many blame.
Divvies may drop and taxes soar and swell.
His income goes on booming just the same.
Few fears are his. Of these perhaps the worst
Is that some day his teeming bag may burst.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


The Benefits of Boxing
have been recognised by all Institu-
tions, Schools and Colleges engaged in
the training or upbringing of men or
boys. Apart from the splendid exer-
cise it affords, its moral advantages
are great. It insures confidence —it
teaches self-reliance —it shows the
folly of bad and hasty tempers—it
quickens the intellect —it affords
healthful occupation for the spare
time of youths, that might otherwise
be less beneficially occupied.
I Teach
Boxing by Post
and explain every serviceable move so thoroughly
that you’ll quickly become a “snag.” There is a
splendid variety of “moves.” Every serviceable “hit”
and “stop” is included in my Postal Course; per-
haps more than you’ll ever need. But then, the
foundation of my instruction is to make you fully
qualified for any emergency.
You ought to write for my illustrated booklet,
“Scientific Boxing in your Home,” which gives fuller
particulars and cost of tuition. Just write your
name and address on this advertisement and post to
me. Send three stamps for postage.
We specialise in high-class Box-
ing Gloves and shall be pleased
to supply prices and particulars
on application.
mm
m
REG. L. (Snowy) BAKER
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,
AND BROTHERS,
384 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
In the Australian
AERIAL DERBY
U/UCEFIELD
Regct.
MOTOR OIL
won FIRST FIVE PLACES,
HANDICAP and FASTEST
TIME.
British and Best./
C.C. WakcfieldS Co. W
Sydney and London.
Hotel c/e Luxe ,
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARUOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Davs-
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per day, or from
Four Guineas per week.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
MW
I
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Over the World*
nr
I
p
li
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Mrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from U P
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICYr
HOT provides hot
drinks or food or cold
refreshment wiihout
bother of preparation,
ICY-HOT Tlasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTB are extra pro-
tected ; with ordinary care will
lastalifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
169 West Second Street, CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to: CASA TORRE, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, S. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain,
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOB
MINING. MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAH ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLiCATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 Q.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 Q.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
AN EXCEPTIONAL SHIPMENT OF
THE CELEBRATED
“OMEGA”
Hair Clippers
ft
Spare plates to cut three different lengths included.
12/0 per set. Posta^e 6d * extra -
A. A. MARKS, LIMITED,
Importers of Tobaccos, Cigars and Cigarettes,
Head Office: 376 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
SHOPS EVERYWHERE.
H
w
13-
<t-569.
11111 m'.inm^TTi.i/mniiiiiu
hfd
/7or/6e Couo/ru /fame
J/o/e/ or S/ore.
The Ice-making Machine, as illustrated, will be
a perfect boon out back. It only requires a
£-h.p. gas-engine, oil-engine or motor to drive it.
In three hours it will make
321 b. of Ice in Blocks at the
Low Cost of 4d.
The machine is entirely self-contained,
and no piping is required.
Full particulars and price on request.
Homewood 8 O’Neill Pty. Ltd.,
172-176 William Street,
Melbourne.
375 George Street,
Sydney.
AILLE
PERFECTION MARINE ENGINES
All sizes in stock. Light- and heavy-
duty types for working boats or
pleasure launches.
Here’s a Fine Holiday Engine!
The Caille Perfection
2h.p. 5-speed rowboat
motor.
We have good stocks of this fine,
handy power-plant. The original
5-Speed Motor, and the
highest-grade, best-equipped
Rowboat Motor obtainable
anywhere. Clamps to any rowboat by tightening
two thumbscrews. One-gallon fuel tank mounted
on the motor, and high-tension magneto built into
flywheel. Fool-proof and reliable, this engine
is ideal for fishing or holiday boating. Drives your
boat from 7 to 10 m.p.h., and is light enough to
carry about in your hand. Buy now for the
holidays. Come and see it, or write for prices, etc.
WE HAVE THE STOCKS. BUY NOW!
Call and inspect, or send your inquiries for Caille
Perfection Marine Engines—l-, 2- and 4-Cylinder
types in all sizes, for light or heavy duty. Any
Caille owner will tell you the quality. We’ll tell
you the price. *
hfd
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA AND PACIFIC ISLANDS,
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED
76*8 Liverpool Street, Sydney; 344-6 Swanston Street,
Melbourne; 138 Currie Street, Adelaide; and Wellington, N.Z.
Cable Address—“Brosbenson.”
C4Ol


Xmas Gifts of Sparkling Merit
W 19 —Crystal Cut Decanter
of Eau-de-Cologne, on long
slender lines with a glass
stopper. Price, each, 25/-
WlB—Cut Glass Decanter,
filled with Eau-de-Cologne,
not illustrated. Each, 21/-
Wl4-Quaint Jug
Shaped Decanter
filled with Eau-
de-Cologne.
Price, each, 10/6
Farmer's, :: Sydney .
Sox 497, G.P.O.
Carriage is paid to the extent of
5 per cent, of purchase price.
W 46 —China Powder Bowls, in yellow,
blue, pink, lavender, old rose and green,
with black and white border. Each, 12/6
Wl9
. ■
Wl4
< s.h :
* ~' 4Vy
-
.iV*,
mw,, .**
ii'O j
Gowns that Decorate .
n
It is not enough that
a woman should be
“clothed”; she
should be adorned
in gowns that
decorate.
Not beauty of form
alone counts in
making a woman
beautiful, much
depends on her
costumiere.
Shave artists in
ladi e s’ clothing
give slim grace and
beauty of line as
if by magic to
every fabric they
touch.
Ladles’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
SHAVE
Centreway,
Melbourne.
"tCLEENFLOX”
The Proved
BLOWFLY DRESSINC
ABSOLUTELY GUARANTEED
by the Manufacturers
To Protect Sheep against the
Blowfly Pest.
KLEENFLOX exterminates all maggots,
rapidly heals the sore, and gives immunity
from further attacks.
KLEENFLOX is insoluble and non-drying,
and its action is therefore unaffected by urine
or weather conditions, and remains effective
until shearing.
Full particulars from the Manufacturers—
TAUBMANS LIMITED,
Varnish and Oil Specialists,
232 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
DISPLAYBLOCK
Whence comes
all that is
exclusive
Vice-regal importants had bought seats for
Walter Kirby’s concert at the Town Hall
on Saturday night, but were either on the
sick list or engaged elsewhere. However,
they will have another chance, for this will
not be the tenor’s very last appearance.
There will be a tour in Tasmania, and a
Town Hall concert at popular prices at a
later date. Kirby was supported by Billy
Burrell (accompanist), Gwen Davis and
Norah Delaney; and Ernest Brookes enter-
tained the party at supper at Lister House
afterwards.
_ A largely feminine audience encouraged
Kirby to repeat all their favorites. Ernest
Brookes was a shining example of sartorial
perfection on one side of the balcony. Mrs.
Norman Brookes and her mother encored
everything from the other side. Louise
Dyer, in a ciel-blue velvet cloak, had an
Argus Brennan and others with her. The
Tom Hogans and brother and sister Nyulasy
graced the front chairs; and the dowager
Madden maintained her usually correct
demeanor in the very front row.
If noise counts the Women’s Automobile
Club’s dinner-dance at the Esplanade Hotel
on Saturday evening was a howling success.
The jazz band had to redouble its efforts to
keep pace with the loudly-expressed apprecia-
tion of the diners, which was reinforced with
toy hooters, and occasionally a tableful sup-
plied the words of the orchestral ragtime.
Dinner, fixed for a quarter to eight, was de-
layed, and hungry women motorists and their
pals wandered savagely round, or stayed
themselves with cocktails. A few couples
jazzed betwen the fish and the entree, and
eventually a good part of the company fox-
trotted in the vestibule. A surprise of the
evening was the sight of ex-Mayoress Stein in
a gold-laced hat, which looked quite naughty
worn with bare-shouldered chiffonery.
The feminine portion at least of Lowell
Thomas’s audiences find most interest in
what the lecturer has to say about Colonel
Lawrence, of Oxford and Arabia, who cer-
tainly is intriguing. Undersized and
ordinary-looking in khaki, in Arab clothes
he simply exudes mystery and power, and
the story of his young life (he is osdy 26
now) reads like romance, as perhaps a good
deal of it is. Part of it is to the effect
that, while being lionised in England, he
refused matrimonial offers from peeresses
and commoners at the rate of 32 a day. The
lecturer and his wife are themselves in
danger of being lionised by Melbourne
Sassiety- Another outbreak in their honor
occurred at the Austral Salon on Tuesday.
Cliveden is losing some of its best patrons
—not from any fault of its own, but just
that the restless rich are turning to home-
life again. Domestic help is fairly plentiful
once more, though very expensive; so a num-
ber of families are looking back to their old
Toorak haunts. The Liebners, who were
among Cliveden’s pioneers, and Barrister
Bryant and his wife have fled. But Admiral
Grant and Kitchener’s dog still take, their
chops there.
Admiral Sir Cecil Burney, who has just
been promoted Admiral of the Fleet, is the
parent of the brilliant young sailor who
invented the paravane, which proved of
immense help to British shipping in mine-
infested waters during the war. The old
Admiral also did his bit at Jutland, and from
1914 to 1916 was second in command of the
Grand Fleet. In the ’seventies he visited
Australia as a middy on the Bacchante,
which gave the present King and the late
Duke of Clarence their first ..view of these
parts. Burney has also sundry connections
in Australia. Y. B. Trapp, the Melbourne
timber man, is a cousin.
The Frank Clarke brood has been supple-
mented by another daughter. The tally is
now three girls and two boys. The Stork
called at the old family home at Ruperts-
wood.
Maorilanders will be interested in the mar-
riage, which very shortly occurs in London,
of Robert Irving, a Digger of some fame, and
son of squatter Richard Irving, of Brown-
hill, Canterbury (M.L.), to Mary, eldest
daughter of Baronet George Augustus Mey-
rick, of Hinton Admiral, in Hampshire. The
young couple are settling in Maoriland.
Maud Fane gets a very juvenile look into
her part in “The Boy,” partly because she
never once tvallcs: she is on the run all
through the piece. Her corn-colored hair
helps her a lot. Hair is a mighty asset to
an actress, and she can’t afford to cut it
off, as a rule. Gladys Moncrieff suffers from
a hard American crop, which is not fair
to her features, specially with a bejewelled
bandage on top. Big Kitty Barlow, as
Stigant’s twice-married spouse, has a fine
fighting arm and a young face. She does
the table dive which so upset poor Florrie
Young at her last rehearsal.
Florence Fawaz, the buxom soprano who
is to interpret Wagnerian roles in London,
is an Australian despite her foreign-sounding
surname. Her own cognomen is Wilson ; the
Fawaz belongs to her uncle, a Gippsland
farmer. The lady likes to hear it pro-
nounced Fah-waz.
Daisy Bradley, who has been in various
shows like “The Girls Who Stayed at Home,”
is blossoming in a garden of her own. She
gives a'recital at the Playhouse on December
16, under Faulkiner Smith direction.
Artist Tom Roberts,- who has been finish-
ing up his Australian visit in Sydney, leaves
for London again this week, travelling by
way of M'aoriland and Panama. He hasn’t
any complaints to make of his Australian re-
ception; in fact, after this taste of the old
home, he will probably return with his
wife and come to anchor. There is only one
boy in the Roberts family, and he, an engi-
neer, has thoughts of “going East”; if he
does, for his parents there will be stronger
ties in Australia than in the Cold Land. Yet
Tom Roberts wasn’t born in Australia ; he
was born in Dorset in 1856, but was only
14 when he commenced his -struggle in Mel-
bourne ; and no man who hadn’t really be-
come an Australian could have painted “The
Golden Fleece.”
George Lambert, about whose return to
Australia rumors are equally rife and incor-
rect (except for the fact that he is coming
—some day), seems to have arrived, artis-
tically, in America, at any rate. U.S.
newspapers have recently narrated how
“every Sunday afternoon from April to July
crowds stood before ‘lmportant People,’ one
of the great pictures of the 19th Annual
International Exhibition of Paintings” at
Pittsburgh. The picture, which we have
heard of before as “People, of Importance,”
“compelled attention and held it” ; also, “it
meant something to everyone... no one gazed
upon it without having thought awakened.”
The really interesting thing about all this
fuss —apart from its evidence that Lambert’s
work does command popular attention, which
his admirers here like to know —is the puzzle-
headedness of the U.S. critics over the
artist’s meaning. Lambert doesn’t usually
have any “meaning” ; but this particular pic-
ture seems to have excited the highbrows
immensely. It represents four persons: a
young mother of the flower-girl type, carry-
ing her baby in a basket; a top-hatted com-
mercial man, senior clerk or junior partner,
with a cigarette and a vacant expression;
and a young, rather melancholy pugilist. On
this foundation one school of critics lias built
up a marvellous legend of “the essential ele-
ments of England’s national strength,” with
the. vacant-minded shopwalker (after all, he
is probably that) as a symbol of culture!
Another more cynical school believes that
the pugilist, being the flower-girl’s rightful
spouse, is melancholy because the shopwalker
is her baby’s father, But no one seems to
have discovered the symbolic meaning of a
tilted-up cart in the background. If anyone
here tries to get out of Lambert, when he
does come, the meaning of the picture, that’s
probably the vehicle his remains will be
carted away in.
Captain Bruce, the handsome but bored-
looking young Flinders-lane magnate who
has made a hit in the Reps., has adopted
the Cold 'Country fashion of having a kind
of political secretary. His devilling is done
by Syd Moody, an experienced pressman
long on the Argus. The idea hasn’t caught
on much, mostly because other members are
not also managing directors of Paterson,
Laing and Bruce.
Melbourne actresses and ballet-girls will
have to be more circumspect next public
schools’ boat-race night. Owing to parental
complaints of “lionising,” various meetings of
headmasters have been held, and certain sug-
gestions have been forwarded to the captains
of the schools, who, while agreeing that pre-
sents, etc., should not be given to members
of the crews, promptly turned down the idea
of abandoning “Theatre'Night.” They unani-
mously agreed that theatre-parties were
quite permissible provided that the school
colors were not exhibited on the stage. So
“props” can lock up Mina’s multi-colored
petties and silk stockings, while Fleurette,
in her departing kick, will have to reveal
more sombre tones than the much-applauded
purple and gold garter of yesteryear. But
the absence of local color will rob the event
of half its glamor.
A Melbourne firm is exhibiting a series of
photographs of the late Flo Young taken
over many years. The actress is shown from
the period when she was a comparative an-
cient in a tight dress, with a little hat piled
on a mountain of hair. What is made plain
is that Flo began young, and with the pas-
sage of time grew younger. It is hard to
believe that the girl of 18 in the sausage-skin
garment with the toppling hat isn’t the grand-
mother of the subject of 1920.
Mrs. George Chirnside, of Werribee Park,
is giving a rooftree to Baroness Furnivall,
who arrived by the Nestor. “The Young
Visiter” is wending her way to Sydney and
Maoriland. She is the wife of Lieut.-
Commander A. W. Shelton Agar, V.CV
D.S.O.—-pretty, and had a scrumptious wed-
ding at Westminster Cathedral a little while
back.
For the next seven years the State Gov-
ernment will pay £2OOO a year for Stoning-
ton, the vice-regal shack at Malvern. This
is double the amount paid for the last 20
years. Municipal rates have also to be pro-
vided for, and upkeep, of course.
Tim Keigwin and his wife passed through
Melbourne the other day en route for Syd-
ney. Mrs. Tim was Gwen Hughes, one of
utt- f°°tjighting beauties in the original
“High Jinks” production. Tim has brought
his mother, Mrs. Keigwin, who is a sister
of Mrs. Fred McQupde, of Potts Point,
Sydney.
Mrs. Robins and Mrs. Barry Thompson
have handed £l3O to the Alfred Hospital,
the money squeezed out of the friendly little
tea-party at Myer’s tea-rooms.
Maorilander Betty Sharman, daughter of
an Auckland doctor, has been much in evi-
dence at the tennis tournaments. ' Betty, a
sporting young person in her teens, has a
yearning for the stage. Papa suppresses this
yearning, though mamma can understand it—
she used to be Juliet. Wrfty, whom matri-
mony plucked out of the musical-comedy
heavens.
Pianist Dorothy Randle is another rising
star in the musical firmament, with the fine
record for a 15-year-
old of a Royal
Academy and Royal
College of Music
scholarship, which
will be taking her
off to London in
two or three weeks.
Dorothy has latterly
practised under
the eye of Louise
Oargurevich, but the
foundations of her
music were laid by
her mamma, herself
a product of Royal
Academy training.
I>n the word of
Fritz Hart, Herbert
Fryer and other
authorities, the
youngster has beautiful hands, and only
needs two or three years’ good schooling to
develop into a first-class artist. The photo
is from Monteath.
~ The Melbourne Symphony Orchestra will
give conductor Alberto Zelman a testimonial
concert in the Town Hall on Saturday,
December 11. There will be orchestral
music, and Zelman himself will play the
Mendelssohn violin concerto.
Alberto Zelman’s wife, Maud Harrington,
had a students’ recital at the Assembly Hall
oh Friday. It was a concert of French
and English songs, and Alberto added some
fine violin music. The singing was delight-
fully clear; the words of every song were
perfectly audible. Each student got her
bouquets, of course; she had her group of
friends in the audience, and bowed in smiling
anticipation of the vegetables she knew would
arrive.
Dr. Gould, who used to be the despair
of matchmakers in Melbourne and is still a
bachelor, has just come down on furlough
from Ocean Island. He is visiting the Bland
’Olts at Camberwell.
The Alfred, which is the second largest
hospital in Victoria, is still very far
short of the £51,000 required for urgent
building extensions. The usual charitable
people have been extensively canvassed for
donations, but the hospital committee will
have to stage a few jazz parties with thrill-
ing menus if it wants to get a load of cash
into the hat. For charity purposes there is
nothing like an array of food with a dance
or two and a dash of wickedness thrown in.
The Warner Co. of New York has been
urged by the new tariff and the high rate of
exchange to try manufacturing its popular
garment in Australia. Wherefore the Warner
Corset Co. (Australia) has been registered,
and presently will start building a factory
that will house several hundred hands.
Mrs. Charles E. Wilkins, whose husband
edits the Papuan Courier, poised over Syd-
ney during last week ; then she passed on to
her own Melbourne town, which she hasn’t
seen for eight years.
Somewhere in the mid-'seventies Patrick
Whyte, head teacher of the Model School,
Melbourne, was short of a pupil-teacher.
To a sixth-class urchin he said: “Tell Frank
I have made him pupil-teacher.” The boy
found his mate pasting the bowling in a
cricket match. “Frank,” he yelled from the
boundary-fence, “Paddy wants you to be a
teacher.” “No use to me,” retorted the
batsmqn. Then down went his wicket, and,
bat in hand, he dashed off in pursuit of the
youth who had taken his mind off his game.
Presently big William Hamilton, first assist-
ant at the school, loomed up, and Frank
late was marched off—to become in after
years Director of Education in Victoria, to
turn the “Model” into the first High School,
to give tens of thousands of Victorians their
education, and to appoint Wil-
liam Hamilton Chief Inspector.
Brunswick Diggers have a sense of humor.
By resolution last week the local branch of
the R.S.S.I.L.A. congratulated the Prime
Minister on the great work he had done for
the soldiers, and remarked that the sincerity
of his affection was guaranteed by the people
ro-O had joined to give him a cheque for
£-0,000. The branch then went on to recom-
mend that he use his cheque for the pro-
vision of homes for the widows and orphans
of deceased soldiers.
Nellie Jerome is doing well at one thing
and another in New York. A ballet written
by her is being produced at the Hippodrome,
she has been commissioned by a firm of pub-
lishers to write a life of Mischa Elman, and
she has had .some of her verse accepted by
the Smart Set. Despite its name, which
was deliberately designed to attract the half-
dollars of fashion-worshippers, the Smart
Set is considered by the cultured section of
the population to be one of American jour-
nalism’s most definite noises. It is a matter
of the editor, H. L. Mencken, who writes
things like “New York is an intellectual
slum” and “There are only two civilised
cities in America—Chicago and San Fran-
cisco.” Mencken, by the way, is an admirer
of many of the modern Australian writers,
and. rather welcomes them as contributors.
Before Marie Bjelke Petersen took to
writing romantic novels she used to give the
girls in Hobart schools corrective exercises
and hollow-back drill, and, like her brothers
who are still at it, she made a bit in the
physical-culture line. The latest language
to receive the benefit of her mental gym-
nastics is Arabic, into which her first novel,
“The Captive Singer,” has just been trans-
lated. It has been published in Cairo.
Sister Adelaide’s postscript:—•
On Saturday, after a gloomy survey of sodden
lawns and dripping tents, the Children’s Hospital
stall-holders decided to pack up and trust to. better
luck on Monday. ’Twas a nerve-racking thing to do,
in face of muggy weather and strawberries, cake and
other perishables; but for once Faith was justified.
Lady Weigall came to give the venture her benedic-
tion and take a hand at the stall she and her “Sun-,
shine” girls were running. Nan Mitchell was at its
head, with Bobbie Poulton, Lorna Paxton and Bar-
bara Howard as helpers, and a good many of the
gorgeous bows and bags and other oddments were
the work of her Ex.’s fingers.
The engagement is « announced of Ruth, younger
daughter of the Walter Hawkers, to Dr. Gault, an
ex-member of the A.A.M.C.
Community singing closed down for the summer
one evening last week, when every seat'in the Town
Hall was taken long before 8 o’clock. The move-
ment began modestly with an informal meeting of
four people, who put up four shillings between
them for expenses, and had the satisfaction of seeing
their number increase to nine for the next meeting.
At the first definite sing-song the numbers were
400 or so; they mounted to 900 for the second, and
have maintained that average ever since. Next year
the scheme will have the Mayor as its president,
city-organist T. H. Jones as its chairman, and most
people who claim to be any one in the musical
world on its committee. The organising secretary
will still be Mrs. Kate Helen Weston, to whose
enthusiasm very much of this season’s success is due.
Adelaide Government House grounds are in the
melting-pot, too. A sort of promise- was given
that the Soldiers’ Memorial Hall should have some,
and now the City Council wants to shave off 22ft.
from the western side, so that the 132 ft. width of
King William-street can be continued down to the
river. On the other haiid, there is a strong feeling
that this is not" the time to spend thousands in
buying or building a fresh Government House some-
where else, especially as the old one had a lot
spent on it for the Prince’s visit. The one thing
that seems certain is that the ugly stohe wall which
surrounds the place will come down.
A soldier’s memorial has been put up at Glenelg
by Hiram Valley, the Adelaide lawyer, in memory of
his son, killed in France. Father and son were
both keen yachtsmen, and a Varley Memorial light
has been erected at the end of the jetty. For years
now, since the mail-steamers gave up Glenelg, the
open roadstead, much used by yachts and fishermen,
has been unlighted, and an abandoned fragment of a
breakwater has been a great danger.
The Blind School’s need of a piano led' Lady
Weigall to organise a concert in the Government
House ballroom. There were tables and groups of
chairs instead of the usual stiff rows of seats, and
in the interval strawberries and ices and lemon
squashes circulated in the steamy night. The pro-
gramme was given by members of the Blind School
Orchestra and Clara Serena. For one of Clara’s songs
the room was completely darkened, so that one
might get some hazy idea of what music means to
those who are in darkness all the time. The
Mouldens and Mrs. George Dean and her decorative
daughter, Mrs. Duncan-Hughes, were sitting with
the Weigalls in their corner.
Maida Wright’s china painting makes a delightful
show. There is a cool, delicate tea-set of love-in-
the-mist that would set any woman breaking the
tenth commandment, and in the “lustre” work there
is a really gorgeous mingling of colors.


'
II
f
/ft
k
m
'mmt
%
&
L /
-i
«6
%
PUBLICITY CO
'When iltou makest presents
/et them (>e such wings
sis will last long ” fuller.
\/\S Xmas CjlftS beautiful hosiery is always
JT V appreciated and in good taste. When it is
/fofejor<s>f
SILK S HOSIERY
it is doubly welcomed by die recipient because of
its long-wearing Qualities, and the fact that it brings
freedom from the bother and drudgery of darning.
HOLEPROOF HOSIERY FORMEN WOMEN AND CHILDREN
Offered in pure sillc, silk faced, and lisle styles, in a wide range of prices.
2111 {eading Stores
Wholesale andlndents thru WA L TFR CATHRO Pty. Lid..
JO York Street Sydney, 16 Victoria St Wellington U. 2


1161
S[)D]IS(II3||
mmi
CMrtPM
RE PLUS ULTRA
mrfjy !«
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT ft COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Oriental
Hotel
First in the favor
of Discriminating
Tourists.
Collins St., Melbourne
(Opposite the Melbourne Club.)
’Phone Cent. 4984.
2VL L. McRAE
Proprietress.
[ u " niff if
J.S.W. New Face Cream
is particularly suited for Summer use. Applied
regularly it improves the skin texture and
protects it against summer blemishes.
Being a non-greasy cream it holds the face
powder satisfactorily.
TWO SHADES—
Blanche (soft white), 3/6 jar.
Naturelle (blush pink), 4/- jar.
On sale at drapers and chemists in every State,
or direct from the wholesale distributors:—
Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney.
cc^
<s
S'
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
From
Daveid jones
[?]
SYDNEY
Hyde Park gave up its most beautiful iris
and hydrangea to grace Mayoress Fitz-
gerald’s rooms for the farewell party to Mrs.
John Storey—the Storey offspring didn’t
turn up, although she was billed to appear.
The wives of several of the Judges and
nearly all the councillors were there to shake
hands with their Premier’s wife, and the
rooms were packed to overflowing with
heavily costumed women caught in the
warmth that followed a wet morning.
•Imagine purple and white iris massed at
the top of the room, blue hydrangea banking
the musicians’ end, and an avenue of palms
linking the two ; a tenor who sang in dulcet
Italian ; tea, ices and babble—and there you
have the party. Mrs. Fitzgerald swathed
her small figure in blue cr@pe de Chine; and
Mrs. Storey stuck to georgette in grey. The
Gordon Wesche lady was the smartest
dresser, her outburst being in black and
white; the Hay, Braddon and Wade titles
were among the spoon-clinkers; and Mrs.
Tivoli Mclntosh wore <n creation like an
abbreviated black-satin domino that half-
way down decided on turning into hip frills.
The Diggers are having a handicrafts ex-
hibition at Camden Buildings, George-street.
This year pottery and tortoiseshell displays
draw the crowd. Can you imagine anything
more artistic than a deep-blue wide-throated
jug filled with creamy milk? Or a rich yellow
bowl for crimson flowers? The leather-work
is even more exquisite than of old, and the
travelling cushions threaten to become'one of
the temptations of deep-sea voyages. Neck-
laces and baskets, cushion covers and
d’oyleys, hammocks, trays and tables French-
polished till their surface gleams like ice,
raffia work, polished and engraved shells —
anything and everything that industrious
fingers can fashion and brain can design.
The Cullen lady did the opening, supported
by daughter Ailsa, arid such active soldier-
helpers as Eadith Walker, the David lady,
Mary Booth and the Curlewis mother and her
chick were among the early customers.
The Davidson Excellencies are now giving
the glad eye to Randwick Military Hospi-
tal: the G.-G. Forsters say they don’t mind
at all. Under another rdgime the State
Exes, were led to understand that Rand-
wick was Federal territory.
The Royal North Shore Hospital drew half
the North Side on Saturday afternoon, when
Minister for Health McGirr opened its new
village area. Veteran Randal Carey was
the presiding genius of the occasion, and he
threw a bouquet at J. D. Fitzgerald, who
had resumed the eight acres that had made
the extension possible. Of the 26 cottages
which had stood on the ground, five have
been turned into maternity wards, five into
infectious-diseases wards, and the nurses’
quarters and a pathological institute have
eaten up the remainder. Minister McGirr
favors the One Big Hospital idea —one
monster institution equipped to fight all
disease within a radius of miles, with its
ambulance service so efficient that the little
district cottage hospital becomes unnecessary.
Supported by her nurses, Matron Goddard,
who is retiring after 22 years’ service,
entertained the guests to tea under a monster
marquee on the lawn.
Conan Doyle is coming back from Maori-
land next morith, and intends digging in for
a while at Manly, where the Doyle children
play by the Pacific.
Bowral is to strike quite the high note in
Society week-end symphonies. Sheila Lough-
borough and her infants led the exodus from
city to the sotithern town. But the judicial
people still favor Tasmania. Justice Gordon
never fails to visit the island in the Long
Vacation. Perhaps in his case it’s a form of
gratitude, as an apple was the cause of the
first conjugal row on record.
If you enter the body of Sydney Town
Hall you will find yourself in an atmosphere
of tracts and coral strands and fancy stalls
where babies’ bootees and knitted cosies and
Chinese padded tea-baskets dwell in perfect
amity, all having for end the conversion of
our benighted brother to Christianity for his
soul and • cotton garments for his hide.
Around the walls, under the galleries, there
are bits of China. India, Palestine, with
ladies and gentlemen of the missions in full
native dress and willing to answer questions
concerning the habits of the heathen in his
blindness. At the opening ceremony Solici-
tor-General Sproule said that to his mind
missionary work was more important than
legislation; but he was still riding free on
the trams up to the moment of writing.
The Bishop of Nelson (M.L.) added a few
words to the faithful; then the stall-holders
got going, and worked hard, so that the
Orient and Pacific missions should have
many an extra bag of rice.
Have you ever seen the packs of playing-
cards with which our sightless brothers and
sisters pass some of the long hours? They
are marked with tiny pricks that could only
be noted quickly and accurately by the most
sensitive fingers. To make those fingers
sensitive and accurate —in short, to put eyes
into their tips—has been the work of many
years. Teachers have gone out daily from
the Industrial Blind Institution to teach
those fingers to read, to write, to sew, to
work in a hundred different ways, so that
their owners might be fitted to earn an inde-
pendent livelihood. Now for the first time
the Industrial Blind Institution is making
a public appeal for funds to help it carry
on its work. Every section of the com-
munity is giving a helping hand. Every-
body who is anybody at all is being roped
in on the different committees. The State
Governor is the patron, and Alfred Meeks
brings his new knighthood and knowledge
of finance to the Advisory Committee.
Last Sunday Bondi beachers were treated
to a vision of a hefty lass dressed apparently
in a yellow band about each arm and another
around each knee. Closer investigation dis-
covered a flesh-colored art-silk bathing suit
with yellow extremities. But after the dip,
when that wretched suit clung to her like a
limpet, a miserable young woman streaked
up the beach and flung herself fainting into
the arms of the overworked female who rents
the lockers. Sal volatile and burnt feathers
were applied, and now a young woman with
heavy-weight muscles is looking for the shop-
man who her the suit. The belle of the
beach is a little dark-haired bunch of dimples
who wears an amber suit, an amber handker-
chief with black spots and a Japanese um-
brella. Young men fight for the privilege of
carrying her pots of sunburn cream, her pow-
ders and her lip-salve. Sitting down on the
beach she divests herself of a linen cloak
and anoints herself with the oil while one
young man holds the sunshade and another
the mirror. Then into the breakers she
skips, and becomes a vivid thing at one with
the sea and the breeze. She can do every
known water-trick, so when she comes out
and sits on the beach and gravely remakes
her complexion the awed small boy hasn’t a
gibe to throw at her.
Here is Batti Bernardi, the young Sydney
tenor who goes first to America to seek
Martinelli, the voice
expert, and then to
Milan, in hopes of
becoming a John
McCormack. Batti’s
father comes from
“the sunny South,”
where all the men
strum guitars and
all the girls carry
stilettos in their
garters; so even
allowing for the
sobering influence of
a Melbourne birth
and upbringing, Batti
should have some
of the old tempera-
mental fire. The
voice is very .soft and
liquid, and his
Italiar. was O.K.’d at a recent party by
Papal-Delegate Cattaneo, who ended up by
promising the young man a batch of letters
of introduction. Batti raises his voice in
farewell on the loth.
In striking contrast to the red roofs and
bungalow homes of Mosman rise the thick
grey stone walls of “The Nest,” which was
built in the long ago—they say by convict
hands —and started its career as a whaling
station. The old home is set in a garden
that rambles in charming inconsequence
from flower-bed to shrubbery ; and on Satur-
day it shed all its grace about the “Fighters’
Fete,” organised to help carry on Spray-
leigh Farm, on the Hawkesbury—-one of
the homes for shell-shocked soldiers. Mrs.
Jessica Lee was the inspiring genius of the
f@te, which the Cullen lady opened. Mrs.
Verbrugglien. Kit Robinson and Arthur Ben-
jamin gave two concerts during the after-
noon, and Minnie Hooper’s pupile did a
pastoral ballet on the lawn.
Hans Ileysen, the artist who looks like an
Alpine climber, has had two sides of Gay-
field Shaw’s rooms covered with charcoal
drawings, of which “Plough Horses” and the
“Old Kiln” are filled with the charm of quiet
places. In fact, the atmosphere of agri-
culture breathes through the sketches, which
are all reasonably priced and nearly all sold.
Hans is this year’s winner of the Wynne
prize, his “Toilers,” in the Society of Artists’
show, gaining him the distinction. Gruner
won his last year with a cow or so.
Mr. and Mrs. Alma Baker, who special-
ised on aeroplane contributions during the
war, returned to Penang by the outgoing
Montoro after three years’ absence. Mrs.
Baker, a daughter of one-time Premier
Frederick Whitaker, of Maoriland. takes a
keen interest in Australasian political
affairs, though having witnessed the demoli-
tion of dense forest lands in the Federated
Malay States and nursed rubber-trees from
their infancy she naturally feels attached
to those parts. The Bakers’ itinerary in-
cluded a sojourn in Honolulu.
Miss Nance Macdonald, one of a pioneer
clan of Goulburn, is mourning the loss of
her eldest sister, who passed out suddenly
at their homestead recently.
This is Mrs. Domerschikoff, who was
Coldham Fussell, of North Sydney. She
met and married her husband in Svdney.
whither he had fled from the Czar’s Govern-
ment because of a
slight difference on
political matters.
When war broke out
Domerschikoff, wh o
had been in the Rus-
sian Navy, felt it
his duty to return
to his country, even
at the risk of impri-
sonment. On report-
ing himself his
Siberian sentence
Avas commuted, and
he was allowed to
•enter the army but
divested of all rank.
He soon made good,
won all sorts of
decorations, and
was restored to his
old rank in the navy. Then he sent for his
Australian bride. She, though knowing not
a word of Russian, set off to the stradge
wide land. At Odessa her husband met her,
and after about two and a half minutes had
to tear himself away while she entrained
for Tiflis and the home of the captain’s
brother, who was Governor of the Caucasus.
Visiting her husband’s many relations, Mrs.
Domerschikoff journeyed through the heart
of Russia, and so got to know the country
pretty intimately. She found the people
cheerful and laughter-loving and very easy
to make friends with—a great thing when
one does not even know their language pro-
perly. Siberia, when Mrs. Domerschikoff
speaks, ceases to be a country of salt mines
and misery, but glows, a wide, open country
with soil as fertile as that of our own
Northern Rivers, and bearing heaped-up
treasures of gold and platinum. She saw
Russia pass from the Czarist regime to
Kerensky, and lived for many months in
Moscow and Petrograd under the Soviet
rule before getting her passports and return-
ing to Australia.
Mr. and Mrs. J. D. Leonard extended the
glad hand at a dinner-party and dance at
the Australia on Friday evening for the
budding of daughter Bessie; and Gladys
Verona and Mrs. Gouley gladdened the gar-
den with song.
Mary Evelyn Proud, eldest daughter of
Mrs. Proud, of Centennial Park, is Mrs.
Hartley Sargent now. It happened at St.
Michael’s, with Archdeacon D’Arcy Irvine
in charge. Bride’s .sister, Mrs. R. W. Win-
ning, attended her during the performance.
The couple are honeymooning in Victoria.
Gwen Fussell, from North Sydney, went
off this week to Japan to link up for life with
Harold Nelson. Harold is an Englishman
whom Gwen met last year in Kobe.
The racing Greenwoods have returned to
Maoriland and its Meat Association, of
which he is chairman. They gave a Maori-
land rally before they went, in honor of
another win of Gloaming’s.
Lucy Chapman, of Lumley Park, has pro-
mised her hand and has given her heart to
Tom Walker,, of Gillendoon, Warren. Tom
is an ex-soldier, having joined up in the
early days, when he brought a squad of
Warren men into camp. Tom was their
banker right through: he promised them
that he would see they were never stuck;
and he kept his word. Lucy’s dad was the
late Thomas Chapman, who squatted in
the same district.
Even the modern theatrical manager who
dreamed for a while that boost could do
anything has begun to waken to the fact
that perhaps there is something in the
grace and intelligence that packed the play-
houses of old when props were few and the
spotlight unknown. Anyway, whatever the
reason, Sweet Nell Stewart, with hundreds
of victories in her train, is down in Mel-
bourne giving Vera Pearce a hand with
“Chu Chin Chow.”
Jamieson Dodds—he leads “opposite”
Rene Maxwell in “The Lilac Domino” —is
at Usher’s with his wife. She’s a very
smart dresser, and he’s “the dearest thing in
the world” with a comedian’s face and a
grand-opera voice.
Alfred Conroy’s death recalls that Adele
Sophie Doyle, now a large, blonde woman,
distinctly good-looking, who divorced Alfred,
married again last year, John Ferguson hear-
ing the vows. Adele, who was the niece of
Jack Want, went a well-dowered bride to
the brilliant young politician, as Alfred was
then considered. Alfred brought a hand-
some figure to the union.
Esther Sheehan, a talented musician,
went in the long ago from Singleton ro
Pietermaritzburg, where she married and be-
came Tess Ramondi Gregg. Under that name
she has published many songs and composi-
tions, her latest being the “Aftermath” waltz,
an entrancing dance piece. During the years
1914-1918 the old Singleton girl raised over
£5OOO for War Funds, all from sales. In the
past 12 months she has entirely lost her
sight; but this does not seriously retard her
in her work. /
On Friday night, at the Conservatorium,
Frank Hutchens, who is off to Europe for a
pot of polish, said farewell at the piano.
The place buzzed with embryo Carrenos and
Pachmans; and Frank, who was his own
scene-shifter and piano-mover, is so popular
that the soulful flapper had to be bodily re-
strained from encoring him for those per-
formances. Mrs. Allard sang some Aus-
tralian-brewed compositions.
There’s a movement afoot to secure for
N. S. Wales the Rowan collection of paint-
ings. Beetle and bird and flower, perfect in
form and coloring, have been painted by the
intrepid little artist, who has lost her own
health in the quest for ornithologic and
botanic accuracy. America is anxious to
secure this collection, which, quite apart
from artistic considerations, is invaluable
from an educational point of View. Surely
Australia will not allow the Dollar States
to snatch this possession from our grasp!
’Tanyrate, all the educational bodies in the
State are imploring Wm. Morris Hughes to
pass the cheque; and his State Ex. endorses
the movement.
The Benevolent Society is.gathering into
its arms all the sick poor and the hungry,
and trying to send some, of the Christmas
sunshine into the homes of the little back
lanes that we mostly forget about in gazing
into the gay shop-windows that line the
wide front streets. One thing the society is
quite determined about, and that is to liave
at least one toy for every child it is asked
to play Santa Claus to. Last year there
weren’t enough toys to go round; some poor
mothers got only bread and meat and sen-
sible things, and that hurt the secretary
perhaps more than it hurt the mothers who
slipped in and out of that gate ’way back
of the Renwick hospital for babies. The
address for your offering of toys or money
or Christmas fare is Benevolent Society,
Thomas-street, Sydney.
To-morrow entries close in Hilda Caro’s
cake competition in aid of the Alexandra
Hospital for Children ; the cakes themselves
must be delivered at the secretary’s office,
Pitt-street, before noon on the'lTth. Ladjj
Forster has promised to be preset at their
exhibition.
With Brisbane’s compliments
A hurried visit to Brisbane was marie last week
by Dr. Danes, the new Consul-General for Czecho-
slovakia —a re-visit really, for he spent several
months in Queensland in 1910. The new republic
has 30 women members in its house of Reps, and
three in the Senate. There is universal suffrage,
except that only those who have reached 35 can
vote in the Presidential election. The heart of
the new nation is the old kingdom of Bohemia, of
which the last queen was that Stuart princess who
inherited all the beauty of her grandmother, Mary
Queen of Scots. After two years in Australia Dr.
Danes will return to Prague, to his beloved univer-
sity, where he is Professor of Geology.
The English cricketers appeared to enjoy the
journey to Brisbane, and the other passengers cer-
tainly approved of the musical items with which
they enlivened the journey.
Frances Maude Archibald, daughter of the late
J. Archibald, was quietly married the other day to
J. H. Bardwell, a Londoner. Brother Bob gave the
bride away, and Dr. R. Stewart tied the knot. The
happy man arrived from England only three days
before the wedding.
Betty Woolcock, daughter of barrister J. L. Woolcock,
has had her wedding and is now Mrs. Ragnar Hyne.
The little bride wore ivory georgette, over taffeta,
with a long train from the shoulders, and carried
a great cluster of white lilies. Nancy Echlin and
Freda Hyne were bridesmaids, wearing delightful
frocks of white organdi, and white hats. Two little
girls, Joan Ann Woolcock (sister) and Peggy Peren
(niece), were maids of honor. Major J. A. Robinson,
D. 5.0., and Len Woolcock, backed up the ’groom.
The ceremony was at the Cathedral and the recep-
tion and welding breakfast at the 'National Hotel.
Brisbane musicians are predicting wonderful
things for Fedora St. Ledger. At her recital the
girl submitted 14 of her own compositions, and
in “Sea,” “Sky,” “Wood” and “Fairy Tale” there
was not only originality, but color and force.
Open from 2 to 6 p.m., the fete
held at Redleaf earned £lOO per hour for
St. Luke’s Hospital, and a red-letter entry
in the Book of Good Deeds for Mrs. P. A.
Rabett and her colleagues.
Mrs. Fenner, one of Prince Alfred’s most
active auxiliaries, has a flower-stall on the
steps of the Australia every Friday morning.
And Barbara Knox says she really would
go on the stage only she is afraid Sydney
would be shocked. It would!


ESTB
IZ>
.853
JEWELLERS
Christmas Gifts.
An Illustrated Catalogue, containing numerous suggestions for
Christmas, Wedding and Complimentary Gifts, in the highest
qualities obtainable, will be posted free on application.
Platinum Watch, Highest-grade Swiss Lever Movement, set finest-quality
Diamonds, mounted on Moire Silk Band, with Diamond and Platinum Snap,
£250 0 0
Diamond and •
Platinum Pendant,
£42 0 0
Diamond and Platinum Arrow
Rroooh,
£l6 0 0
Platinum and. Gold
Circle Brooch, with
Diamond Spray,
£35 0 0
Pearl Cluster
Pendant,
£lO 10 0
Gentleman’s 18ct.
Gold Signet Ring,
£3 3 0
Blue Sapphire and
Diamond Ring,
£9O 0 0
Gentleman’s 18ct.
Gold Signet Ring,
£3 6 0
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
JJ6-118 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
London.
298 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
HARRINGTONS’
METALLORGICAL WORKS
and LABORATORIES.
ASSAYERS of Alloys, Ores, Fuels, Metallurgical Products, etc.
Technical Representatives in transactions of Ores and
Metals.
REFINERS of Lemels, Gold and Silver Bullion, Optical and Dental
Scrap. Spent Baths, Stripping Solution, Guilders
Solution. Specialists in the refinement of Platiniferous
Bullion and Residues.
SMELTERS of Sweeps, Polishings, Handwash, Silverers’ Blankets
and any material containing precious metals.
MANUFACTURERS of “Perfection” DENTAL ALLOY, Dental
Golds, Solders, Platinised Wires and Metallurgical
requisites for the DENTAL PROFESSION.
(By arrangement) of Johnson s Scales Brand Silver
Nitrate and Gold Chloride for GLASS SILVERERS,
ELECTRO-PLATERS, PROCESS ENGRAVERS.
SUPPLIERS of Fine and Standard Gold, Fine and Standard Silver,
Fine Platinum and Platinum Alloys, Electrolytic
Conner, Cvanide, etc., for MANUFACTURING
JEWELLERS.
h
ITD “THE INDUSTRIAL
METALLURGISTS”
AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND.
386 George Street, Sydney.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne
43 bundle Street, Adelaide.
144 Queen Street, Auckland:
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Works and Laboratories: Booth and Trafalgar Streets, Annandale, NuS.W.
NO dMVHO
OaV M
SMOld
1331$
r: ' -• '^ll
No, 65-r-WIARD STEEL BEAM ROAD PLOW,
for 2to 6 horses. Weight 2001 b.
fdh
No. 69-WIARD ALL-STEEL CON-
TRACTOR’S PLOW, for horses or
tractor. Weight 3151 b.
fd
hfd
hfd
No. 66—WIARD STEEL BEAM ROAD PLOW,
for 2to 8 horses. Weight 2501 b.
Are Strong Enough for Any Work
Thousands of Champion Wiard All-Steel Plows are in use
throughout Australia and New Zealand. They are used by
the Commonwealth Government, the various State Govern-
ments, Water and Sewerage Boards, Road Boards, Irrigation-
Commissions, City and Shire Councils and Private Contractors.
Great strength is their main feature, due to the extra high-
quality steel used in their manufacture. They have all-steel
unbreakable beajns, which have never been known to bend
• or break.
Owing to their short length these Wiard Plows can be used
and turned in places where no other plow would enter.
We carry a large stock of spare parts, and users can depend
on receiving prompt delivery.
Illustrated are four Champion Wiard All-Steel Plows.
Send for full particulars.
v- ■
When buying a plow
be careful to see you
get an all-steel beam
plow, not a cast-iron
one. They cost a little
more at first, but are
treble the value.
No. 64—WIARB STEEL BEAM
ROAD MAINTENANCE PLOW,
for 2 to 4 horses. Weight 1651 b.
British-Australian Machinery Co. Ltd.
Union House, 247 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Collins House,
MELBOURNE.
Union Bank Chambers,
BRISBANE.


FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
BRITISH
made
Perfection
PIISK RUBBER.
Learn to Draw
tV’>
There’s Money
in the
Pen.
The above ,
is the title'
o£ our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HABBY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DBA W.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
whitt the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
stamps to-day
for a copy of
this booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN THE
PEN.”
the: harry j, weston
Postal School of Drawing,
23 Union House, Cr. George & Grosvenor Sts.,
SYDNEY.
BOND’S TRIPLEWEAR HOSE.
Made in Australia.
I I
J v . * ....
f
AN IDEAE HOSE,
combining wonderful wear with beautiful
appearance.
Retail Selling Price, 12/11 per pair.
W. Ckorley S CV
=s3
§
rlf:
MINIATURE
DECORATIONS
1914-15 Star.. 3/6
Victory Medal. 3/6
Gen. Ser. Medal 4/9
Brooch for two
miniatures. . . 2/6
Brooch for three
miniatures. . . 3/6
Miniatures ,of all
medals in stock.
Tailors and Naval Outfitters,
313 George Street, SYDNEY.
Legal Notice.
TO THOMAS SHIPLEY, father of
Henry Shipley, deceased, and formerly
of Crich, Derby, England, and all persons
claiming by, through or under him.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
13th day of October, 1920, by the Supreme
Court of New Zealand, you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on or
before the Ist day of February, 1921, your
claim to the estate of Henry Shipley, who
died intestate in France on or about the
sth day of April, 1918, failing which the
estate will be distributed among those en-
titled thereto disregarding your claims.
Dated at Wellington, this 14th day of
October, 1920.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office.
Wellington, New Zealand.
mi
| A soda fountain on a tea-tray |
SPARKLETS
are back a&ain!
With a Sparklet Syphon you can make
a quart of delicious soda water as easily
as a pot of tea. And the cost is trifling com- •
pared with bottled soda. For summer com-
fort, no home should be without a Sparklet
Syphon. Available all Chemists and Stores.
If you have a Sparklet syphon that is out of order
through being stored away, send the Coupon below
for Free Spare Parts.
FREE COUPON
To SPARKLETS LTD., 42 Pitt St., Sydney,
‘Please send me Free of Charge new Rubber IVashcrs
and Pin for Sparklet Spybon bought about 19
Name
cAddrcss.
S.B. 9/12/’2O
Elasticity
is one chief feature about the Jason
undergarments which satisfies stren-
uous folk; the all-wool protection
when cooling is the other.
Jason-wear is woven to fit comfortably,
from pure wool, thoroughly shrunk.
Ask to see Jason undergarments at your
draper’s or stores.
JkUtCTU
AU.-WOOL UNlHfttNKAttft
UNDERWEAR
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
New “ Olympic ” Brand. Owing to the high price $
of the yarns from which Jason all-wool goods are
made . the manufacturers have introduced temporarily
lower lines containing a percentage of cotton—bearing
otherwise the same guarantee of quality as the regular
lines . Your dealer will supply you.
-5T
k
On Hot Summer Daus driixK.
KING or TABLE WATER?
Bick in fui'dHwj'
Contain? LimpSodaXitfia cMa<£np?ia
''E.BowldlldL? . Fix] . Iy f d .
Molbouri\p. BalUtal & Si|dun|
PURVEYORS TO VICE -ROYALTY
m
VII
W»T»
&
ICINT?
Rowlands
A PERFECT
SHAVE.
It’s British.
Christopher Johnson & Co.
h
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Their Famous Full Hollow-Ground
Metropolitan Razor.
PRICE 10/6,
Of all Stores.
If unable to procure send Postal Note to their Representatives.
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, 50 York Street, SYDNEY.
328 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
?S//
Mftwwa
All
Chemist*,
two sizes.
fdh
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO., LTD.,
C.ll Aberdeen House, 204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
TRAVEL
IN COMFORT
The only proved Remedy for
SEA and TRAIN SICKNESS
MOTHERSILL’S
SEASICK REMEDY.
GUARANTEED TO PREVENT AND CURE
OR MONEY REFUNDED.
Missing friends.
Relatives of the late martin
IRWIN, native of Wicklow. Ireland,
please communicate with the undersigned.
Property left. J. REID STEWART, Mor-
rinsville, Auckland, N.Z.
Missing Friends.
Lindon McDonald, son of Alexan-
der McDONALD, late of Doctors
Creek, Lexton, will hear something to his
advantage by communicating with E. S.
HERRING, Solicitor, Maryborough, Vic.
The Shoe Polish Super Excellent.
Bostock’s Shoe Polish is made from a highly scientific formula of purest ingredients,
is free from mineral oil, and, in addition to giving a brilliant and lasting polish, it
PRESERVES the leather.
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood, White,
Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
BOSTOCK’S VIOLO POLISHES, LTD., SYDNEY.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Enos: Don’t think you'd really like our
candid opinion; and the common or candied variety
isn’t served at this counter. .. .P.A.C.: Thanks.
Always a market for personal pars—the things Bill
and Jim don’t know about the people they do know.
. ...0.L.D.: Lawson wasn’t the only one. Rod
Quinn began to earn his living by teaching a
provisional school out near Wagga. In the boom-
smash of the early ’nineties his salary was reduced
from £B4 to £7O a year; so the Education Depart-
ment lost Quinn.... Bandeau: You’ll never earn a
halo with your pen unless it writes better stuff
than that. . . .S.A.N.: The sense seems to have leaked
out of it, if it ever had any.... Oliver B.: The
skill vdth w’hich you hold the great event in sus-
pense to the last stanza is beyond praise:—
Then you must not forget the boys and girls,
Out'in their colors looked lovely and fair;
The girls in their frills and their curls,
Its takes some beating this affair.
Of course to clear the course, the usual thing,
There’s generally a mix-up somehow ?
They call it fighting beer or something,
Which generally ends in a row.
Then at last, at last, the cop Joe Makin,
To end up this beautiful show;
To lug poor old Bill Luggins in,
It’s all in the day’s show; you know—
“ Good-bye all!”
....Chick S.: You get something of a picture, but
the theme is slight and the verse a bit crude. Go
0n.... Edward M.: Doesn’t get to anything....
Paula: Doesn’t sound true.... Harold M.: It goes
too heavily.... Jas. P. H.: Revised version of “Bill
and the Trooper” is very bad verse.... Darby: For
all that is worth while in “Grosse Street” you are
in 0. Henry’s debt. . . .E.L.S.: No use to us. . . .Mary
Jane: None of them up. . . .Coralie S.: “Joy” is
pretty, but feeble... .Fan: “Wander-Lust” misses...
Ewa: The point is too thick and mirthless... .E.Mi:
Wooden sonnets. .. .J.M.S.Y.: Enough verse to make
a book and none with a pulse in it. .. .It.R.M.: Not
well enough d0ne....8i1l I.: Nothing thrilling about
the “Parsons”.... V.H.C.: It wanted different hand-
ling... .Olive G.: “Tuesday” is no use. .. . E.M.E.:
“Old Manuscript” misses. .. .J.S.P.: Doesn’t appeal
to us. . . .H.G.C.: None of them good enough. .. .
Artemus H.: It falls down in places. ~ .P.R.W.:
Don’t like “Laodamia”... .Arthur D.: Very heavy
fooling. ... Ivinghorn: Verse of no distinction which
says practically nothing. .. .W.11.M.: No use dishing
up that ancient sorrow in bad verse.... Coralie S.:
Neither quite up. . . .11.R.M.: “Garden” wants a bit
more cultivating. . .T.C. (Glebe): With better hand-
ling it would have a good chance. . . .11.L.H. r “A
Win” moves rather wearily... .Jeunesse: That sort
of thing about “Flanders” is being done so often. ..
D.E.T.: The verses say nothing new and nothing
very we 11... .S.H.G.: “Faded Dreams” misses....
W.W. (Napier) : Try to find something that is really
your own to say and say it with some freshness of
phrasing. There is no other way.. ..Cecil M. : It’s
rather a dull wail. That bush and city business has
been hammered out pretty well during the last 30
years... .Billy T. (Brisbane): Not enough there...
Wrangler: Wretched Bogie River: Can’t find a
smile in it.... Vet.: Your poet’s license is suspended
for 12 months. That’s for trying to rhyme “field”
with “steal”.... Roger P.: That one is not for us. ..
J.M.S.Y.: You send us “Dead Roses” from a place
which is teeming with things we really want to
hear about Adele H.: What’s the use of writing
about nothing? E.J.G.: Don’t like the “Lan-
tern” any better. . . .N.T. (Clayfield) : Verse misses.
. ...L.L. (Paddington): Verse is a bit loose, very
long and the point is not very mirthful.... C. J.:
“Anzac’s Dream” won’t do. ... Jank A. W.: Walk
right in and sing it:- —
. ...J.M.R.: Doubt whether “An Apology” w'ould
interest even the hungriest reader... .M.S.: For
heaven’s sake don’t write in riddles. Language can’t
be too simple and direct for this paper. . .The Lamb:
Enjoyed your scholarly exposition of the difference
between fasting and starvation. Enjoyed it even
more when we read it in London Daily Mail.*..
B.B.: No, not going to start that discussion. It
will lead nowhere Queen-street: Too loose and
shambling Edd: Give him time—perhaps Doyle’s
friend who supplied him with the information hasn’t
finished his sentence yet J.R.S.: Haven’t any
sympathy to spare for “our late enemies.” They
are not conspicuously late over anything except
the indemnity.... G.J. A.: Afraid you are a wowser,
all the same. The padre to whom it happened
regards it as the most typical Digger story iff his
collection.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Y.P.: Drawing of a fat man with toothache hand-
ing £25,000 to a midget who might be Billy does
not make a cartoon... .B.B.B.: Not a copy, is it?
Try us with something else... .S.H.: Not nearly
good enough.... K. A.: Both crash... .D.G.O.: Quite
hopeless... .E.R.H.: What’s it all about?... .H.G.:
Ponderous joke and tw r o dead-beats are on the return
journey... .Roderigo: Yes, “endurance has its limits.”
. ...R.McR.: A cartoon requiring so many tags is
no use. The picture ought to tell the story....
E.C.: Tame fairy-tale illustration to a feeble jest...
Y.D.: Fails miserably... .A. W.R.: (1) The interest
is too local; (2) the drawing is impossible... .M.F.:
Not a shadow of promise... .J.H.W.: Ail miss....
D.C.: What is it —a spirit-drawing? C.G.: Don’t
scratch.
Th-ere was an official opening the other
day of the Cavendish-Balmoral section of
the Portland-Horsham line (Vic.), and it
took 23 speeches to declare the 25 miles
of line well and truly uncorked.
“Stronach”: I never found the Tommy
anything but a good chap. On the way to
the dressing-station I struck a choom with
a newly-brewed dixie of tea. He looked
thirsty enough for anything, but didn’t hesi-
tate, and I’ll never forget that poor devil’s
face as I bolted the lot. That was a sample
of their ion camaraderie. Let rancorous exiles
knock them; I never wilL
This verse is about a dear young nurse,
Who’d rouse “Preposterous stuff!”
If a patient hale coughed up a tale,
Pitched in a key of bluff.
Well, to a lovers’ bower, one witching hour,
As she tript past a moonlit creek,
What a splendid dash, on hearing a splash,
And an infant’s poignant shriek.
With decision strong she plunged headlong,
Into the torrent wild ;
Yes! headfirst in, and saved the skin
Of a near-drowned, grateful child.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabmes-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, DECEMBER 22,
SONOMA.
10,0U0 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
T.S.S. WOLLONGBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
10 p.m., passenger arrives In Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger arrives in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/10/10.
Second Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail,
£2/17/3.
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& pO., LTD. ,
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hoh. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G. ;
Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, iitider
agreement extending to June 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .'. .. .. 796,655 10 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 300,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,069 4 5
All new business since 181)3 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
W. H. Hart, Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN (Acting).
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agehta throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerioa, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. £200,000
Directors : Herbert R. Lysaght, Chairman ; George
J. Sly, LLD.; Frank N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A. ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C.;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 142 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager : R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director : A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock., .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. . • 1,496,666
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,646,520
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland,
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
Banking business.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, December 17.
R.M.S. MAKURA, January 13.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, February 10.
R.M.S. MAKURA, March 10.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, April 7.
R.M.S. MAKURA, May 5.
And every 28 days thereafter.
l—— ——
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM WELLINGTON :
R.M.S. TOFUA, JANUARY 7.
R.M.S. MARAMA, February 1.
Connecting Steamers from Sydney, December 30, January 27.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
fd
hfd
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Apply to BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, for particulars.
White Star Line
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Australia to London and Liverpool via
South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
12,500 tons
12,000 tons
12,500 tons
12,000 tons
RUNIC
MEDIC
SUEVIC
PERSIC
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCEES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
MIETIADES 8.000 tons
MARATHON 8,000 tons
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
- £4,931,100
- 3,350,000
- 4,931,100
£13,213,200
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Thomas Bucldand. Esq.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidlev, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Xhreadneedle Street, E.C.
356 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
hfd
2M°‘3ustraKa
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 2802 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a % Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor July Ist, 1920 Governor
Shipping.
‘Tranships at Townsville for ports as far as Cairns.
(Carries Ist, 2nd and 3rd-class passengers.
{Carries Ist and 2nd-class passengers.
§Carries Ist and 3rd-class passengers.
Huddart ParkerLlM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and, vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa everv three weeks. Between Melbourne
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
THE FAVORITE MAIL AND PASSENGER SER-
VICE TO THE EAST.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN,
Via BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND,
ZAMBOANGA, MANILA, HONGKONG, NAGASAKI,
KOBE, and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTE. —All Passengers must have Pass-
ports duly vised.
For all particulars, apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
liable Address;
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton S Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Etd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Limited.
Eitzroy Estates Eimited.
Blackheath Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. & O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line (Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. C®. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart, Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd (at Brisbane).’
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners,
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.
HI
,
“INVINCIBLE”
MARINE
ENGINES.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA SINCE 1906
3 to 120 B.H.P. PROMPT DELIVERIES.
Invincible Motor Construction Co., Ltd.,
35 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £41,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.


SIMMS
High-tension
Magnetos.
Simms Magnetos are the result of many years of
electrical and mechanical research, each component
part receiving the undivided attention of specialists.
Because each instrument is developed part by part
the completed magnetos are highly efficient at all
speeds, whether the timing lever is at full advance
or full retard.
Simms Magnetos are of the true high-tension type, in which
the high-tension current is developed directly in the armature
without the introduction of any exterior devices. They require
only one cable to each spark-plug, besides the one ground-wire:
this is the simplest wiring possible.
Simms Magnetos are self-contained and not affected by the
inoperation of any other part. A discharged battery does not
mean a stalled motor miles away from assistance.
Full particulars on request.
SoPe Agents for Australia and Pacific Islands.
linn
t u
—-'Dry-
Refrigeration
or ? Solid Ice.
Whichever you like, and from
a small, .self-acting machine,
operate d automatically from
the oj dinary electric current.
The Sanitary
Iceless Refrigerator
will generate a dry, cold temperature in buffets, cooling-rooms, chill-boxes, glass
showcases, etc. You may build them in your store, under your counter or ’other
convenient places, and, so long as they are insulated and the brine-pipes run
through them, the Iceless Refrigerator will keep them at the right temperature for
food preservation. Use your glass showcases for refrigeration as well as display.
Then,(if you lequire Ice for the table or counter, the Iceless Refrigerator will
turn it out in moderate quantities daily; costs about. 1/4 per day when operated at
full pressure. For Restaurants, Cafes, Hotels, Hospitals, Smallgoodsmen, etc.
Call in and inspect.
1
"■:i JTIS
* W ... m
M
SSiH
i
Iklß
;t :fi, ;, ;:t
"" ,<4 V ’»i 1 '"W\ "\ »,»«\
Measures 2ft. x 4ft. x 3ft.
JOHN BANKS S SON
PTY. LTD.,
324 Pitt Street,
Sydney,
and
391 Bourke St.,
Melbourne.
Write for booklet
and see ho\y you
may do your own
refrigerating for
convenience and
profit.
Australia’s Greatest Sports Providers
Every Kind of Sport and Recreation Catered for.
Quality Goods at Honest Prices.”
EVERYTHING FOR
TENNIS.
RACKETS.
Special School Match
M.S. National
Service
Peerless
Haymarket
Haymarket Selected
Haymarket Special
Haymarket Ex. Special ....
Ayre’s Handicap
Spalding’s Tournament
Spalding’s Continental
Slazenger’s Renshaw
Slazenger’s Demon
Slazenger’s Whitehouse ....
Slazenger’s E.G.M
Slazenger’s Doherty
Slazenger’s Stadium
Slazenger’s 1.7,.
P. H. Ayre’s Sandown
F. H. Ayre’s A 1
H. C. Lee’s Seneca
IT. C. Lee’s Church
H. C. Lee’s Dreadnought
(Rackets, 50/- or over, post
cheaper rackets: N.S.W., 9d ;
7/6
l5/6
27/6
3O-
/- .. 30/-, 40/-
.... 45/-, 50/-
•... 40/-, 45/-
6O-
/
45/-
.. 50/-, 55/-
45/-
55/-
.......... 65/-
7B/6
B2/6
B7/6
9O-
/
37/6
55/-
95/-
lOO-
/ Postage on
other States, 1/2.)
TENNIS BALLS.
Each. Doz.
Grey Regulation -/9 8/6
Dunlop Regulation Grey 1/4 15/-
Dunlop’s Champion, 1921 2/9 33/-
Ayre’s Champion, 1921 8/- 35/-
Slazenger Champion, 1921 3/- 35/-
Haymarket Champion, 1921 2/9 32/6
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 1/-; other
States, 1/8.)
> >
■V
Mb,
. o*4>W
Specialists
in ail kinds of
RACKET
REPAIRS.
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
Champion (square) Posts, pair 97/6
Tennis Court Markers 35/-
Tennis Tapes 22/6
Gut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets bottle «/9
Each.
Racket Covers .... 2/6, 6/6
Tennis Ratchet 7/6
The “Grip’ - Racket Press 3/6, 4/6
Racket Handle Covers 1/”, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books j/g
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils 2/-, 2/6 coil.
h
BOXING.
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
MEN’S'GLOVES. Set of 4.
C. 8.8., real leather, special value 13/6
C. 8.8., Fighting’, best tan napa, laced palms 6or 8 0z... 15/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, superior napa, laced palms, leather lined,
6 or 8 oz. ... . 18/6
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
6 or 8 oz. 25/-
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined. 6 or
8 oz - ■ 28/-
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING, napa, curled hair, laced
palms, 6 or 8 oz 30 /_ 35 /_
THE “LIGHTNING,” made in Australia, officially
adopted and exclusively used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by
Mr. Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker * 4 q/
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
YOUTHS’ GLOVES. Set of 4.
FIGHTING, napa leather, hair stuffed JO/_
„ Tan Leather, „ 11/6
„ very superior, „ 12/6
~ Laced, ~ ~ 15/6
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d.; other States. 1/2.')'
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BAND,
7in. wide (Post 4d) 9/6 each
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) 6/6 each.
BOXING BOOTS, Special English Leather, extra light,
weight about 3joz. (Post 6id.) 17/6 pair.
IHOHHAW
MADE IN
AMERICA
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Myrrohl destroys pus, whitens the teeth, hardens the gums, pre-
vents decay, sweetens the breath, checks Pyorrhoea. An ideal
paste for Smokers. Price 1/9 large tube (or 2/- post free).
fdh
PUNCHING BALLS.
We carry a wide range, including the famous REACH
Balls. A few minutes each day at Ball Punching will
keep you in good condition.
.V KM V. Swinging Hall, regulation size, soft leather, light
make, for fast work, 10/6. 12/6, 16/6
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine
leather, stayed seams, very fast —
18/6, 22/6, 25/-
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest
napa leather, welted and stayed, very fast and lively—
-30/-, 35/-
“REACH” ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball,
specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and
perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid.
The finest made 45 / m
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for ceiling 15/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather,
double-stitched, verv light 21/ *>s/_ 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings 30/-, 354Q j m
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete 75/-
Above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
Ball Gloves 4/9 pr.
Punching Platforms t 50/-, 75/-, 147/- each
Ball and Socket Swivels . . . 1/6, 2/6 „
Double-action Swivels 6/6 „
Send for copies of “Can't B Beat” Sportsman’s Guide (Bl) and “Sure Catch” 1920
Angler’s Guide (B 2). All sportsmen should possess them. Post free to any address.
.i.**" 1 '
Jmc£ Simmons ffl.
Headquarters: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES :
202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE.


Make Your Backache
Quickly Disappear.
I am pleased to write you about
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills. Having
suffered from Backache and Kid-
ney Trouble, it had me that I
didn’t care if I lived. I tried all
kinds of remedies. Seeing your
advertisement in the paper, I was
induced to try your pills, and, to
my delight, the first bottle did me
good. I continued with the Gin
Pills, taking half a dozen bottles,
which cured me.
I always keep a large bottle in
the house, and can recommend
them to anyone suffering as I did.
You may use this as you wish.
Yours gratefully,
(Sgd.)
Mrs. EDWARD MARSHALL,
“Ilford,”
Australia Street,
Woollahra.
X 1
c % \\
Mrs. E. MARSHALL (from a photo by
Monte Lube).
Gin Pills Will Help You
If you feel that your kidneys are the cause of your illness, your run-down feeling,
begin taking Dr. Sheldon’s (Jin Pills for Backache and Kidney Trouble, because as
soon as your kidneys improve they will help the other organs to health.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache and Kidney Trouble relieve the worst cases
because.they remove the cause of such troubles; they get to the root of the matter,
clean out the kidneys, and make them filter out all the poisonous waste matters and
uric acids that lodge in the joints and muscles, causing Rheumatism. They soothe
and heal the bladder and quickly relieve you. They are a unique remedy entirely
different from anything you have ever used. There is nothing else to compare with
them. No matter how old you are, or how long you have suffered, the very principle
of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills is such that it is practically impossible to take them into
the human system without obtaining results.
If you suffer with pains in your Back or Sides, or have any si;fns of Kidney
Trouble or Rheumatism, such as puffy swellings under the eyes or in the feet or
ankles, if you are Nervous, Tired and Run-down, or bothered with Uriitary Disorders,
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache and Kidney Trouble are the Remedy which will
quickly relieve you of your misery.
Drsheldoas__ w
FOR BACKACH
and Kidney Troublles
Yh6 PM
nib Its
Canno
Cleans I
ILegula
BrifcyK
*Bk for ONOTO INK
lasK.
elf.
fcure.
®°Bt for all Pans
Noxious Weeds
TREES and SCRUB
ST. JOHN’S WORT
BLACKBERRIES
THISTLES, DOCKS
BOXTHORN
COUCH FERNS
FURZE SORREL
WEEDS of every kind
€t
“VALLO"
„ BRAND _
.weed, scrub
JREE KILCER
CpojsopTl^
Every square foot of iand is valuable
now-a-days—far too valuable to be taken
up by scrub and weeds. Why should
they sap the vitality out of ground which
should contribute to your storehouse or
granary ?
Have you a clearing problem—is any
of your land being usurped by undesir-
able weeds ? Then there’s no earthly
reason why they should remain there
any longer. You have a speedy, sure,
and economical means of cutting short
their existence.
"VALLO” Brand Weed
Scrub and Tree Killer
will clean them off like a bush fire, with
the difference that they go for good.
“Vallo” is not an experiment. It is an
absolute exterminator of any and every
kind of Noxious Growth. It’s demon-
strating its efficiency every day. Whether
your trouble be giant trees or common
sorrel put “Vallo” on the job and you’ll
be impressed by what it can do.
Prices: 56 lbs., 70/-; 15 lbs., 21/3; 7 lbs.,
10/6; lib., 2/-; J-lb., 1/3.
Postage: Within the State, 1'1b.,9d.; S-lb„ 6«T.
extra. Interstate. 1 lb.. 1/2; §-lb., Bd. extra.
Manufactured in Australia by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
55
The Gift.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FIRM lips had I to suck rich milk, when
On the U full breasts of ardent mother-
hood ;
Youth following after with inherent scorn
Of visionary things, and dreams forlorn,
And passions fools subdued.
Wide nostrils for the conflict and the chase
Heaved the great torso with inrusliing air;
And I was limbed for swift enduring pace,
And crowned and plumed above a male man-
face
With wealth of wine-red hair.
Great hgart had I from some far. ancestor
Who loved the wide earth and the won-
d’rous skies,
Who had the hunger and the thirst of Thor
And licked his lips foretasting bloody war,
With lightning in his eyes.
Strong hands had I that knfeaded soil to
bread,
Or swayed with gentle touch the eager team
With streaming nostrils and the heavy tread
Of thunder rumbling down the rocky bed
Of a deep-channelled stream.
I had the Viking arms to hack and hew,
Or hold and throw a maddened charging
bull;
The vision-pow’r to fix within my view
The seventh Pleiad in the dancing crew,
E’en with the moon at full.
A woman craved a gift. I brought a man,
Greatly proportioned, so to grace her feast
That even her Satyrs cheered, and hispid Pan
Betrayed approval when his eyes’ full scan
Paid homage of the Beast.
Like a stalled ox to pleasure her I fed,
Drained wine by goblets from red-bellied
skins
That dulled and fumed the brain, and I was
led
From wassail of the feast-hall unto bed,
Couched with tremendous sins.
The Bulls of Bashan are a mighty crew !
Great spawn of Earth were we at bed ©r
board,
With corded throats and loins of mighty
thew,
Who looked the sun full in the face and knew
No God or overlord.
A branching forest,, old and turbulent,
With desperate rotting roots clings to the
stone,
Dreadful because its years of youth are spent,
And mocking Age may deem it penitent.
By its betraying moan.
So cling I to this Autumn trunk of clay
Shorn of Life’s leafage, and the mornings
rise
Like Aphrodite nude from the sea-spray;
But this for me since passed the passionate
day,
The sneer in Circe’s eyes.
MAORILAND.
DARIUS.
The Lady Penrhyn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN the beginning of the year 1787 young
Mr. Eustace Cordelius, of the Royal
Marine Light Infantry, enjoying himself
very thoroughly in London, after the manner
of his age and the age at large, was extremely
mortified —not to say disgusted and annoyed
—upon receiving a communication from the
Lords of the Admiralty to hold himself in
readiness to join, at short notice, a ship, to
be specified later, then fitting out at Ports-
mouth to transport convicts to the colony
about to be founded at Botany Bay, in New
South Wales, under the Governorship of
Captain Arthur Phillip, R.N.
Mr. Cordelius —who held the rank of
lieutenant in the Sea Regiment—felt this
to be a distinct and well-nigh unbearable
hardship. For three years—almost from the
moment of his joining his Majesty’s service
—he had been exiled in the West Indies
aboard H.M.S. Culloden, where he had had
yellow fever, been nearly drowned, and all
but slain in a duel with a planter who was
nearly as black as he was white. There also
he had had a very distressing affair with a
lady, which had occasioned him much worry,
apprehension and pain of mind. It was
too bad, too unreasonable and too utterly
damnable that his well-earned period of rest
and recreation, after so exceptionally harass-
ing a term of service abroad, should now
be curtailed in such a fashion as this.
However, he cursed and grumbled and
made himself ready, and in due course was
ordered to report himself for duty upon the
transport Lady Penrhyn. He took every
sort of unavailing precaution to prevent , its
coming to the knowledge of his associates at
the Cocoa Tree that this was the ship chosen
for the conveyance to the new settlement
of the greater portion of the female prisoners
who were to be the mothers of the settle-
ment. They got to know it almost as soon
as he did, and in the end he was not at all
sorry when the Portsmouth coach, upon a
bleak morning in March, bore him away
from their ribaldries. It was extremely in-
decent of those blackguards, he felt, to have
nicknamed him “The Sultan,” to have pre-
sented him with a cradle, and to have exer-
cised their feeble wit in sorry jests relating
to his harem.
The old Hampshire seaport had seen many
strange fleets equipped since it first became a
Royal Dockyard, but never before quite
such another as that of which Arthur Phillip
was commodore. In every respect it was
unique. More than a century before, Captain
John Smith had sailed for Virginia with an
expedition that had something of a similar
Purpose, but in its constitution, as an under-
taking of merchant adventurers, it differed
materially indeed from that which was fit-
ting out at Portsmouth in the first months of
’B7. To found a province at the other side
of the world with a selection of criminals
from the gaols of all England must surely
be regarded as one of the most extraordinary
experiments ever put into execution. The
colonisation of America was" a matter of
private enterprise, that of Australia a policy
of government. And it had as its critics
everyone who was in opposition to the Gov-
ernment of the day. Not the least bitter of
these, Mr. Cordelius found, was the driver
of the coach which translated him to his
destination.
“Bot’ny B’y!” said that scornful Jehu.
“Ye’re a-goin’ to Bot’ny B’y, are ye, Cap’ll?
God ’elp ye, I says—God ’elp ye! An’ it's
us ’as got to pay for it!”
But for the most part such comment as he
heard upon the undertaking to which he had
been unwillingly made a party was of the
same ribald sort as that of his more intimate
male acquaintances in the London coffee-
houses. It was almost invariably a subject
for the contemptuous jests of the truly
comic. He arrived in Portsmouth, and
alighted at the George, in a depressed frame
of mind.
Here, however, he had the good fortune
to meet a person who believed in the enter-
prise. They dined together that evening in
the coffee-room of the inn, and in Mr. Arthur
Bowes Smyth, who was going out as sur-
geon to the Lady Penrhyn, he found an
optimist who was even capable of raising his
spirits from that depth of despondency into
which the prospect of indefinite exile had
lowered them. “A very gentlemanly Person”
he wrote to the present lady of his somewhat
ephemeral affections, “to whose Society I
look forward to as some slight recompense
for the Dreary Prospect which lies before
me.”
It may have been the port which he had
stowed below his belt, or simply his sanguine
nature, but there was no doubt that Surgeon
Smyth was, this evening at any rate, full
of enthusiasm for the embryo colony.
“Just think of it, my dear Cordelius —
Britain may proudly boast that, in these
latter days, she has achieved the unique
distinction of possessing an Administration
that is not blind to the dictates of human-
ity. I regard this scheme for affording
these wretched creatures another chance
in a new world as one of the very highest
nobility. What could be finer? For my part
I count myself as fortunate in taking part
in so benevolent a venture. I am sure that
it will succeed, and that Mr. Pitt’s Ministry
will go down to posterity as one which has
done a great thing—a very great thing in-
deed.”
“I wish,” remarked Mr. Cordelius, “that
Billy Pitt and his d —d Government were
at Botany Bay themselves.”
“Ha —not at all! Wait until you see these
pitiable unfortunates whom it is given to us
to conduct towards better things. I feel cer-
tain that, as a roan of sensibility, you will
agree with me that nothing could be more
worthy than the work we find ourselves en-
gaged upon. The unhappy creatures! I
assure you that it fills me with the utmost
compassion when I regard the collection of
wretched females whom I have in my charge.
One cannot but feel for them—that is, if
one has ever had any feeling for mother or
sisters of one’s own.”
“Aw —what are they like?” inquired Mr.
Cordelius, suppressing a yawn.
“A most various and heterogeneous collec-
tion—from all over the kingdom. One
hundred-and-nine of them. Old women of
70, to young girls of 17. We have one child
who is only 13. Innocent country lasses,
and trulls from the Seven Dials. Serving
women and seamstresses —pickpockets and
parsons’ daughters. Even ladies who have
seen better days—one or two of them.”
“Ladies! And what are they doing in our
galley?”
“Oh, persons who have met with misfor-
tune and have lapsed into crime, I suppose.
Possibly have been betrayed and forsaken by
men—l blush to say it —of ’our own class.
Oh, indeed, there are several who are quite
nice women, I assure you—women whom
you might have encountered in the best of
society. And who will one day again have
the chance of leading reputable and worthy
lives. That, as I have said, is the—ah—
poetic beauty of the plan. A noble scheme,
my friend —a truly magnanimous one!”
* * * *
It was not long before Dr. Bowes Smyth
had his generous enthusiasm a little damped.
He seems to have sailed from Spithead in
May, when the long-delayed expedition had
set out. full of hope for the best as regards
the ladies committed to his charge. But by
the time it was traversing the Southern
Ocean, in December, his views were greatly
modified.
There is an old leather-covered manu-
script volume in the Mitchell Library at
Sydney whose title page is inscribed, in the
neatest of hands, and with some amount of
flourish, in this fashion:
“A Journal of a Voyage from Portsmouth
to •New South Wales and China—in the
Lady Penrhyn, Merchantman —William
Cropton Sever, Commander —by Arthur
Bowes Smyth, Surgeon —l7B7, 1788, 1789.”
Under the date of December 10, 1787, the
doctor makes the following somewhat em-
bittered remar.ks:
Spoke the Sirius about 10 o’clock a.m.—the longi-
tude 58J. Since Commodore Phillip left us the
remainder of the ships of the fleet have kept tnuch
better together, as Captain Hunter does not carry
such a press of sail as the Commodore used to do.
This day I had the box of necessaries got up out of
the gunroom, where from the rolling of the ship it had
burst an end, and some of the sugar had fallen out,
and stowed the contents in the lockyers of my own
cabin. This box was sent on board for the use
of the sick amongst the convicts and under the care
of the surgeon. It consisted of the following article's:
About 401 b. of moist sugar, 61b. of currants, 61b.
of sagoe —lib. of almonds, a small quantity of
French barley, a 10-gallon cask of red port wine,
some portable soup, tea, lump sugar, 10 tin saucepans
and mugs, two caggs of fine essence of malt. The
provisions for the convicts were also very good of
their kind; the beef and pork in particular were
excellent. A retrospective view of these different
articles may serve to justifie the observation I made
some way back in this journal, that I believe
few marines dr soldiers going out on a foreign
service under Government were better or so well
provided for as these convicts are. It is also
asserted there are not less than 2000 bottles of medi-
cines of different kinds in the fleet.
I wish I could with truth add that the behavior
of the convicts merited such extream indulgence—
XContinued on next page.)


“RUB
IT
IN.”
UC ( .4
»r
4*'»
IP* •*•<•«•
.. iwt.'sr:-.
*-«fwiiit mmc»*c*rrtm*
*lCiisro'*m*rga*+ mim*i
u» <*—*»**> (MMUV
K
:
:
I
::
Imitators may be Flatterers,
but they are
ONLY Imitators:
REFUSE INFERIOR
SUBSTITUTES.
fd
ZAM-BUK has a world-wide reputation of many years’ standing —
a reputation built up on absolute merit and reliability.
Because of the unique scientific way in which Zam-Buk’s herbal ingredients are blended together, Zam-Buk is a preparation
unequalled for its Soothing, Healing, Antiseptic and Germicidal properties. Zam-Buk makes sure first that the flesh is medicinally
cleansed before healing begins. The wound that is dressed with Zam-Buk never festers:
Likewise, Zam-Buk gets to the root of skin disease. There are no “breakings-out” again when Ulcers, Eczema, Poisoned Sores,
Blackheads, Blotches and Scalp Disease have been properly treated and cured by the Zam-Buk method.
These are distinctions that stamp Zam-Buk as the genuine skin healer to be always Kept Handy.
SOME
TYPICAL
ZAM-BUK
CURES:
ECZEMA—“I had an outbreak of Eczema
on my headi The irritation was dreadful,”
writes Mrs. .1. Martin, of 118 Wilson-street,
Rediern, Sydney. Proceeding 1 , she says.—
“The Eczema continued bad for four years,
and no matter what I tried I could not
cure it. At length, seeing Zam-Buk Balm
and Zam-Buk Soap advertised, I decided to
give them a trial.
“1 shampooed my head thoroughly with
Zam-Buk Soap, dried it, and then applied the
Zam-Buk Balm. I persisted in this treat-
ment for some time, and finally got rid of
the trouble altogether.
INJURED KNEE. —Mrs. Lottie Howarth,
Franeis-street, Ro'ekhampton (Q.), writes: —
“My husband fell and dislocated his knee. It
was in a very bruised condition, all the
flesh being black and blue. Zam-Buk was
applied, arid quickly reduced the swelling,
drew out all the congested matter, and healed
the bruised flesh. The dislocation having been
adjusted, Zam-Buk was well rubbed in. This
treatment kept the joint pliable, and it
gradually became stronger, allowing him to
resume his duties.”
BURNMr. Thomas Crawford, 109 Hutt-
street, Adelaide, says:—
“I was severely burned while testing
a motor-car. One of my fellow-workmen
advised me to apply Zam-Buk without
delay. I followed his advice, and after
applying the Balm I experienced the greatest
relief. I continued the Zam-Buk treatment
with such satisfactory results that in the
course of a few days I was able to resume
my work again, for the pain had been ban-
ished, the inflammation taken away, and the
burns quite healed.”
Zam-Buk is unequalled for cuts,
bruises, scalds, burns, running
sores, bad legs, ulcers, mosquito
bites, peeling skin, summer rash,
pimples, children’s sores, absces-
ses, ringworm, barber’s rash, sore
feet, boils, festering sores, piles,
sprains, sore heels, eczema, poi-
soned wounds, stiffness and injured
conditions of the skin generally.
Prices: 1/6 and 3/6 per pot, of
all chemists and stores.
& '.w;
' *v
p”L,L bel H Ve > 1 m , ay r en * ure say never
a moie abandoned set of wretches collected in one
place at any period than are now to be met with in
this ship in particular, and I am credibly informed
the comparison holds with respect to al! the convicts in
the fleet. The greater part of them are so totally aban-
™ ed ,, aad cal l? u 2 t ' ) sense of shame and even com-
necessary to inflict
and sorry I am to say that' even this rigid mode of
proceeding has not the desired effect, since every
day furnishes proofs of their being more hardened
in their wickedness.
In the footnote to the text of his diary,
Dx*. Rowes Smyth details the nature of the
coiporal punishments he found it necessary
to inflict.
+n;J pon a fi n L. ver} ' extraordinary occasion, such as
making use of
auasive language to the officers, they have thumb-
screws put on, or iron fetters on their wrists, and
sometimes their- hair has been cut off and their head
shaved, which they seemed to dislike more than any
other punishment they underwent. At first one or
naked"breech g but .^ lth a ,. c f t of n j ne , tails th ®
naxea meech, but as such a mode of punishment
could not be inflicted with that attention to decency
which everyone whose province it was to punish
wished J- 0 adhere to, it was totally laid aside.
abusivf"thn t a * h “ whl * under F uni ! hment . so very
abusive that theie was a necessity of gagging them.
c c it es Ins lament thus:
i* p , oss } bl , e ui irieir present
like rational or even beings-perpetuafly
thieving the cloaths from each other, nay almost
from their backs, may be ranked amongst the least
of their crimes (though it is the crime for which most
o theni are in their present disgraceful situation)
the oaths and imprecations they daily make use of
in their common conversation and little disputes with
each other by far exceeds anything of the kind
to be met with amongst the most profligate wretches
in London. Nor can their matchless hippocracy be
equalled except by their base ingratitude, many of
them plundering the sailors (who have at every port
they arrived at spent almost the whole of the wages
due to them in purchasing different articles of wear-
ing apparel and something for their accommodation)
of their necessary- cloaths and cutting them up for
some purpose of their own.
* * . * *
“My dear Cordelius,” said the surgeon,
as they paced the poop on the Sunday morn-
ing that the Fleet spent in Botany Bay,
during the short period of days when the
latter was in any sense a penal settlement —
“My dear, good fellow, you—you astound
me! ’Pon my soul, I can hardly believe that
you are not joking !”
“I don’t know why you should be so sur-
prised, Doctor. I’ve confided in you pretty
well ever since the affair commenced. You
have been aware of—ah—the state of my
affections since we were at Rio de Janeiro.
’Twas with your consent that we have held
any communication. You have known all
there was to know—that is to say, as much
as was good for you to know—ever since we
first became—ah—interested in one another,
I really am at a loss to account for your
astopisliment.”
“Yes, yes, my dear fellow, of course I’ve
known—well, a good deal of yotir interesting
little affair with Mrs. Varney. But I never
contemplated any such outcome as this —
that you should wish to marry the lady,
Great Heavens, no! I merely considered
that you were diverting yourself in the fash-
iofl that every man aboard—with the excep-
tion of Captain Sever; possibly your senior,
Captain Campbell; and myself—would have
, ul „„ f * , -m- , r
keen only too Willing to follow had 1 pe
fitted it. I tISSUre you that, had 1 PV-on
dreamt that you were taking the matter so
earnestly, I would not by any means have
been a party to her doing duty as your nurse
were-er—ill—no, damme me if
1 Snoillu .
The surgeon had smiled as he referred to
the illness of Mr. Cordelius, but his face
was grave enough as he continued :
“This woman”
“This lady. Doctor, if you please—this lady
whom I design, with his Excellency's per-
mission, to marry.”
“Now the devil you do ! Well, this lady —-
( ] 0 y OU f or one thing, happen to know what
• r, 11 , .
S le 1S here t( -\ r ■ ave > <ni any idea why
slle comes to have been accorded a passage
ill the Lady Penrhyn ? Do yOU know what
she did to earn the privilege?”
“I know what she was accused of doing—
,ll,, t»
mo fA ' VI oa gfully accused ,
Poisoning her husband?”
Mr. Cordelius’s expression, his whole pose,
as j le answered, was one of outraged indig-
nation He halted
near the break of the
poop and looked down into the waist of the
ship, where, on the forward side of the barrier
at . the main-mast, little groups of the women
prisoners were seated and strolling about the
deck, or standing upon the spare spars and
hencoops in the scuppers to gaze across the
high bulwarks at the shore. His eyes were
. et * a I )on om w ‘iO sat a little apait from
llj e other groups, with eyes and hands
busily employed in the knitting of a pair of
woollen stockings.
Without doubt the orison or wis n vorv
, yntnout Uoilut tile prisoner was <1 leiy
Lively woman, and although her clothing
was the coarse dress of a female convict,
she wore it in a fashion that made it a little
different from the rough garments of her
companions in misfortune. A silk kerchief
about her shapely throat, cuffs and apron
cunningly contrived from some of . the white
duck that—as Dr. Bowes Smyth has re-
corded—the sailors had been robbed of, and
the neat and becoming arrangement of her
hair did wonders for her appearance. As
she raised her head—perhaps conscious of
the ardent gaze directed at her from the poop
—and smiled up at the young officer stand-
big a dozen yards away, it was possible to
n °te that she had very fine eyes, a handsome
face and a complexion of cream and roses,
Her hair was of that tawny sort that goes
so W HI with such a skin.
“An outrageous, a most malevolent lie!
Not yours, of course. Doctor”—he bowed
his apologies to the surgeon. “ ’Tis the
wicked testimony of vile wretches who hated
her because of her goodness, her virtuous
life, her happiness and her beauty. Good God
—to think that such creatures can exist! ’Tis
enough to cau§e one to believe there’s no God
Heaven!”
“You believe that she is innocent?”
“Of course I believe it—none but fools
or knaves could think otherwise.”
The Doctor smiled.
“And in which category, my dear Cor-
delius, do you place your humble servant and
very devoted friend ? For he believes —
nay, he knows —from her own confession—
that she made away with the late Mr.
Varney.”
“Doctor, L know that your experience with
these unhappy women during the voyage has
not been a pleasant one —that you have had
good reason to change your views concerning
the future that lies in wait for them in this
country.”
The surgeon shrugged his shoulders and
laughed.
“Ha, ha, my good friend, when I think of
the high notions that were mine when we lay
at Spithead, ’tis enough to make me blush for
my credulousness and folly ! Why, I declare
that seven months in close attendance
upon these awful harlots and liars and hypo-
crites have made me into a very cynic.
Reformation ! Great George—one might as
easily reform a pig from wallowing in the
mire when he gets a chance, as inculcate any
virtue into such as these. Our humane
Ministry, indeed ! Mr. Pitt is not the fool
I thought he was. The hazards of such an
expedition as this upon which we are en-
gaged were well worth undertaking if they
freed England of even a round dozen of these
creatures —let alone the number we have
with us!”
“I was about to remark, Doctor,” said Mr.
Cordelius, a little impatiently—“l was about
to observe that, even though the women may
have proved themselves to be hopelessly
abandoned, yet there must be, are, excep-
tions. Now that lovely creature over there —
a man of any discernment has but to look at
her to>see what she is. Wronged innocence is
remarkable in her every aspect. ’Tis impos-
sible to observe her without being convinced
of the truth of this. Indeed, it is!”
The sound of a raucous throat-clearing and
spitting behind them caused the two young
gentlemen to turn and greet the captain.
Upon his red, round face was a fatuous grin,
his great paunch was wrinkling his waist-
coat as he made a sort of elephantine bow
—which, however, was not for the benefit
of the two officers —and his little piggy
eyes almost sparkled, as they stared down
into the waist of the ship. The surgeon
followed his gloating glances, and saw that
Mrs. Varney had looked up from her knit-
ting and was nodding and smiling—not at
Mr. Cordelius, whose back was half turned
towards her—but at the fat master-mariner
who ogled her from the poop. A sudden
inspiration caused the doctor to take the
Lieutenant of Marines by the elbow, and
to whisper to him hurriedly :
“Come with me—l will open your eyes.
Come with me.”
They descended the ladder, and the surgeon
walked forward, wonderingly followed by Mr.
Cordelius.
“Unlock the gate, sentry,” said Dr. Bowes
Smyth to the marine at the barricade div-
iding the prison from the quarter-deck.
They went into the enclosure in which the
convict women took air and exercise, and
the surgeon led his friend up to the beauti-
ful prisoner in whom he was so interested.
She rose and curtseyed gracefully as they
approached her.
“Mrs. Varney,” the surgeon spoke so
that only the three of them could hear,
well aware of the fifty pairs of ears straining
to catch a word that might be construed into
the basis of a scandal —“Mrs. Varney, 1
have been telling my friend, Lieutenant Cor-
delius, how you have informed me as to the
real facts concerning your no doubt very
justifiable action in seeing to the removal
of that monster of iniquity, your late hus-
band, from this world. He professes to
doubt the correctness of my information.
You have no objection to saving my reputa-,
tion for truthfulness?”
The pretty lady laughed musically.
“La, Doctor, I declare! You are so out-
spoken—ra-ally now! And I have been
telling Mr. Cordelius —because, you will
of course understand, I did not wish to dis-
tress him while I was acting as his burse—
that I had been wrongly accused of making
away with Mr. Varney. Oh, of course I
was compelled to rid myself of such a tire-
some creature —and very glad I am that I
did so. Any self-respecting woman would
have done likewise. I could do nothing”
“Pamela!” exclaimed the young officer
distractedly—“good God, my deah girl! Oh,
what are you saying? A murderess! Great
Heavens! To hear you confess such a
thing!”
She laughed bewitchingly at his white face
and air of pained bewilderment. Then she
turned to the surgeon, as if to change the
topic from one that had little interest for
her. She spoke coaxingly, and very sweetly,
“Dear Doctor Bowes Smyth, I know you
are going to speak to his Excellency as to
myself and my loving William”—she inclined
her shapely head towards the poop, over
the rail of which grinned that stout sea-dog
and ladies’ man, Captain William Cropton
Sever —“So soon as we get ashore and settle
down. You would not promise yester-
day—but I know you will. Your kind heart
will not allow you to do otherwise, I’m sure.
Under the circumstances, you know.” She
looked at Mr. Cordelius demurely, and sighed
and blushed. “I had not told you before —
I was not sure—the captain and I—well,
my dear doctor —the c.aptain and I—oh,
’tis not easily said—l think—l am—to be-
come, a mother. The captain and I —you
understand. He will take me away, if the
Governor will permit. Oh, you will do your
best —my dear, good doctor?”
The surgeon, looked at his friend. He knew
the psychological symptoms that were mani-
fested in his distorted and passionate coun-
tenance. It was 'no time to hesitate, if he
would prevent a tragedy. The commanding
officer of the detachment of Marines bad
come out of the cabin.
“Cordelius, quick! Captain Campbell is
calling for you.” He pushed him through
the barricade.
“Mrs. Varney, I will do my best for you.
I am obliged to you. My friend is also —
though he doesn’t know it.”
Lieutenant Cordelius saluted his superior
officer, and Captain Campbell wondered
why two tears rolled down his subordinate’s
face, whilst the surgeon appeared to be
solemnly amused.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.


'
: V. ;■ , W'Jj
■
mram >¥& wH
!*£«
'jsbl. i
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHGUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA
LTD.,
A.inanslanci Affents— HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N T Omce-93-107 Featherstoi. Street, Wellingrton.
Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONI
WEST, N. S. WALES
HOR LICKS
MALTED MILK
*
is a pure rich milk combined
with the extract of malted grains
—very digestible and nutritious.
Prepared in a moment. Delicious
Sample will be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps
to Hutchinson & Co., Ltd.,
2(5 Jamieson Street.
Sydney, N.S.W. .
ill
'jKsV. forHorfok’-sT
mple Supplies.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
GLEYS
CfZKIiIH
new
flavour!
r
*
Cm
rise
3d. per
packet same
as Spearmint
and
Fine for the teeth*
appetite
and digestion
Obtainable from \
Chemists.
Confectioners
.and Storekeepers
hfd
Or send 3d. to
WRIGLEY’S
BOX 2376.
fcP.O„ Sydney.
Kept Right
A-20
The Flavour Lasts
Uou must cat to ltofe.but
tjou itfill alao liife to eal^:
If uou take
S 3
t,
&
(kechami rllli
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue fully
describing our PATENT AIK CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under . all
conditions. To prove what we stsue
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the Teach of
all
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
TTapd ejncp 1596 C U RE 5 Writ 6 101* BOOK
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK_ SIGHT.
S. GREEN. 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton’s"
-refuse all substitutes.
SUCCESS IN LIFE
To succeed in life good spirits and hopeful
~'he man who is de-
hfd
spondent or irritable always fails
Low spirits and irritability of
temper are often caused by
a dull, torpid liver.
Wake up your live
with Carter’s Little
Liver Pills and start
the day with a bright
cheerful face. Both
your health
business will bene-
fit. No pain,
discomfort. Thousands recommend
Good for old and young —purely
them,
vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dosa— Small Prica.
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
GENUINE must
bear signature
h
If any illustration appearing in The
Uleetin takes your fancy, write to the
anager, who will quote you price for it.
OCAS-
Three-Fold
The Remington Model 51 Automatic Pistol is ab-
solutely safe. There is no danger of accidental dis-
charge because of the three safety devices: (lji
automatic grip safety, (2) thumb-operated safety levci>»
(3) magazine removal safety.
Shootin^Ri
or
SPECIFICATIONS: Caliber, .380; length, 6 5/8 in.?
thickness, 9/l0 in.; weight, 21 ounces unloaded; finish,
dull black; magazine holds seven rimless automatic
standard cartridges, one additional cartridge in chamber. j
Cartridges, .380 APH (9 m/m
Browning Short) rimless auto-
matic standard metal cased or
soft pointed, the same cartridge
as is used in other American
Automatic Pistols of this
_ i caliber.
iV
c-$
'HO,*,
mi| U|
'■/in.
'' •’' I M
•Homj
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. Bryant, P. 0. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia


Hancrovitel
MANGROYTTIg
LEATHER
LTI
LEATHER
—Ml** I
t^le ;, l(lven , t . of electric motors and
high-speed wood-working machinery a belt
has been urgently required to ran at high
speed over small pulleys, transmitting the
power required with «
. _ punej'b, rransinittinfif the
power required with a minimum strain on
shaftings and bearings. t
nr 'Dntir 13 1 J _•
—*»•“&» “VV Mangrpvite Leather
or «aw Kide Belting has been proved to
r Q |S S X ® al!y users—.try it, and add your
valued testimony to our list. ■* *
“MANGROVITE” BELTING has been STTR
STANTIALLY REDUCED IN PRICE?
M / fS^S rov > t e Belting' Ltd.
(Char es Ludowioi, Managing Director).
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Svdnev
e f i*u l i Btralia: Bright & Co., Fremantle
S th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
Victoria and Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co
■WMmMelliourne ’
LONGER LIFE.
A world of care, watchfulness and experience goes into the
making- of
“An Eagle on a Globe” Circular Saws
The . double-extra Crucible Steel frofii which they are made means
longer l ; lfe, quicker and better cutting at reduced cost. *
Made in standard gauges in .fifteen different stvies of teeth. From
4 inches diameter.
Prices and particulars promptly supplied on
V - request to Desk “A.”
THE EAGLE 8 GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
QN >°’'
%
379-381 Kent St., SYDNEY;
264 Latrobe St, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Rd., Kalgoorlie
Cliff St., Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews,
Brisbane
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Paul & Cray Ltd., Newcastle.
Dick’s
for True Economy.
fdh
TRADE
e xuxta
perch
Sole Agents:
MARK
JAMESHARDIE & COY. LTD.
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 Lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Newcastle Agents—Paul & Cray Ltd.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity., Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.’’ Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 vears ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of vour
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
LTD
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
ipment, Remember SWANS
The Articles in their Tool Shelves
not only look like Tools, but are
Tools. Tools that are ACCURATE,
DEPENDABLE and LONG WEAR-
ING.
Additions or Replacements
W*i
KjKH&P5$k
SWANS have been for over 30
years dealing in High-grade
Mechanics’ HAND and BENCH
TOOLS, and they know and stock
the Quality Brands.
Ford Wrist Pin Reamer, 9/-
xt°* ooT ji/ ’ * vr * v * ivcaiiicr, y/-
So' transmission Gear Bushing, 11/
5°- 5' S * housm S front Bushing, 17/9.
No ‘Si* B ro ?nnt nd Spring Perch Bushing, 11/«
o'-o?’ I)j . fterentj al Pinion Bushing, 12/
s®* 'B!,’ I* 6 ®*?* Pinion Bushin#, 10/-
Ao. 2009, Hub Cam Shaft Bushing, 11/-
SPECIAL FORD
REAMERS.
No. 3545, Steering; Post Bracket Bushing, also Cam Shaft Front and
Rear Bearing, 147-
No. 2527, Differential Spider Bushing, 18/9.
No. 2517, Differential Case Bushing, 30/-
or
1 Set, comprising one each of the above Reamers, £6/17/-
SWANS LIMITED,
The House for Motor
Engineers’ Supplies,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
f
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2 y 2 inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, oanoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £3B/10/-
Correspondence invited.
D. 8 W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
High - Pressure Brass work
to All Australian Water Board Standards
Also Guaranteed, Factory Tested, Medium Lines.
PUMPS.
Alderdice Limited,
Warrnambooi, VICTORIA.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culvvulla Chambers,
Castlereagrli Street, SYDNEY.
ELDER, SMITH & CO.,
LTD.,
Perth
100,000 Satisfied Users
(2000 IN AUSTRALIA)
is a notable achievement in 4 years. Nothing but sterling worth
would maintain such popularity—a defective- product would have
dropped out after a year or two, but
STILL LEADS THE FIELD.
ELECTRIC LIGHT and POWER
for Stations, Farms, Hotels, Stores, etc.
SOLE AGENTS—
N.S.W. & Victoria—WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 309 Kent
Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland—SMELLlE & CO., LTD.. Brisbane.
Modern High-Speed Lathes and
Machine Tools for every operation
The world s greatest manufacturers and captains of industry owe their success in part to the use of
up-to-date plant. They employ equipment that makes quality-quantity production their certain
defence against competitors using old-fashioned methods. We offer the most modern machines and
tools tor every operation, all by world-famous makers. Ask us particulars of
Lathes, Milling Machines, Shapers, Pipe and Bolt Screwing Machines, Radial and Upright Drilling
Machines, Hacksaws, Grinders, and every needed tool for the busy machine shop.
CALL OR WRITE. PRICES ARE ATTRACTIVE .
PARKE (EL LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants, 60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY. M „
'
s m
