

DS'W AJIRP S —The Spirit of Age and Wisdom
R. a. WATKINS &C CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent StreotS, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty: AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in ail parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE
MONEY
ON EASY
TERMS $
ON ALL CLASSES OF SECURITY
WITHOUT POSSESSION.
NSWMQNT dePIETE
D S> 1 C9V LIMITED.
74 Casllereagh St. 7& Sydney
CAPITAL &200.000 ‘Phone Cii,y 5325
flra/7c/?ej <st- 29 King St.. Newcastle, NSW-?I5I7 SwanstohSt Mei^Vic
40 Adelaide st,Brisbane.Q. 197 A Castlereagh 5U59 George St. West, Sydney.
Joseph VJ Hill. General hlanas/en
rs
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont do
Piete I>. and T. Co. Lt(l.”
ff
CHROMOL
19
(Trade Mark)
The Super Driving Belt.
The largest mining and smelt-
ing plants use “Chromol,” because
of its proven superiority over all
other Belting.
Sole Makers:
J.C.LudowicitfSon Ltd.
Pioneer Leather Belting Works,
117 York Street, Sydney
Pioneers and Leaders since 1858.
THE BEST !
n
m
(ft
m
n
m
B
_ nveappie
J UNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organa.
HAN SENS
«Ju
izi=ißi=4*a
*>r INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
ML
1
Q
m
THE ROOFING THAT ENDURES
The severest extremes of the Australian climate are successfully
resisted by Malthoid.
It does not corrode, will not rust, split or crack, and will outlast
the building on which it is used provided it is treated periodically
with Malthoid coating.
Actual samples of Malthoid and illustrated booklet will* be sent
post free, on request.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager),
Challis House, Sydney.
A new and revised edition of the
“Referee” is now available,
and will be sent post free on
application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY .
%Vve® ls
the recognised standard
of quality throughout
the Commonwealth
.D.K.Z. GIN
Agents—OßM£, KEIGWIN (8b Co., Ltd., SYDNEY.
(The Square Bottle with
the Heart-shaped Label.)
Electric Lamps Give
r~
'
SEYON LAMPS reduce lighting expenses, as they have a very low current
consumption, combined with high efficiency. Buy electric lamps with a
known reputation for durability. SEYON LAMPS are the most economical
for Homes, Factories, Mines, Municipal Systems and where lights are
subjected to endless vibration and shocks.
Made specially for extra-hard service on indoor and outdoor lighting and
give a steady, reliable white light. Made in Drawn Wire Pattern for
Home, Office and Shop service, and Half Watt type for Mines, Municipal
Systems, Factories and Stores. Stock sizes 10 to 300 Candle-power
Send for Price Lists and Full powei.
NOYES
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
(MC>LBOUR.NE) PTY., LTD., 499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne; and Darling
CH AS. E. BERNAYS. 125 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; J. R. W.
OPALOID
TOOTH PASTE
Used Every Day
Prevents Decay.
OPALOID
The Bulletin
Vol. 41.—N0. 2106.
Thursday, June 24, 1920.
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1920 is row ready, and will be posted
free to any address on application.
DYMOCIv’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD., 428
?orge Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.—Advx,
Watermans
advt
Equip your office staff, your warehouse clerks, foremen
and others who use the pen, with Waterman’s Ideal.
You get back the cost in the time saved and in the
efficiency attained. A reliable fountain pen makes a
wonderful difference in the day’s work.
Three Types:
“Self-Filling,” “Safety,” and “ Regular.”
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
Fountain Pen
i H
BBS
L. g. sloan, Ltd. Comer
London, England. 4
Au tralia:
Harold D. Dixon
105, Clare.ice St.,
Sydney.
is Week’s Toilet Hints
A BARE COLLECTION OF BEAUTY HINTS FROM NEAR AND FAR
HOME RECIPES.
GETTING RID OF FEMININE
MOUSTACHES.
“Practical Suggestions.”
To women who are annoyed by disfiguring
downy hair growths a method of permanently
eradicating the same will come as a piece of
good news. For this purpose pure powdered
pheminol may be used. Almost any chemist
should be able to supply an ounce of this
drug. The recommended treatment is de-
signed not only to remove the disfiguring
growth instantly, leaving no trace, but also
to actually kill the hair roots, without
irritating the skin.
HOW TO HAVE THICK AND PRETTY
HAIR.
“Home Talents.”
Soaps and artificial shampoos ruin many
beautiful heads of hair. Few people know
that a teaspoonful of goodstallax dissolved
in a cup of hot water has a natural affinity
for the hair and makes the most delightful
shampoo imaginable. It leaves the hair
brilliant, soft and wavy, cleanses the scalp
completely and greatly stimulates the hair
growth. The only drawback is that stallax
seems rather expensive. It comes to the
chemist only in sealed packages which
retail at four shillings. However as this js
sufficient, for twenty-five or thirty shampoos,
it really works out very cheaply in the end.
BLACKHEADS, OILY PORES, ETC.
A unique new method instantly removes and
corrects them.
The new sparkling face-bath treatment
rids the skin of blackheads, oiliness and en-
larged pores almost instantly. It is per-
fectly harmless, pleasant and immediately
effective, All you have to do is to obtain
some tablets of sty mol from your chemist,
drop one into a glass of hot water, and
after the resulting effervescence has sub-
sided dab the affected portions of the face
freely with the liquid. When you dry the
face you will find that the blackheads come
off on the towel, the large pores contract
and efface themselves, and the greasiness is
all gone, leaving the skin smooth, soft
and cool. This treatment should be
repeated a few times at intervals of several
days in order to make sure that the result
shall be permanent.
GREY HAIR UNNECESSARY.
A simple, old-fashioned homeunade lotion that will
restore the color of youth.
One need not resort to the very question-
able expedient of hair dye in order not to
have grey hair. The grey hair can easily
be changed back to a natural color in a few
days’ time merely by the application of a
simple, old-fashioned and perfectly harmless
home-made lotion. Procure from your
chemist two ounces bf tammalite concentrate
and mix it with three ounces of bay rum.
Apply this to the hair a few times with a
small sponge, and you will soon have the
pleasure of seeing your grey hair gradually
darkening to the desired shade. The lotion
is pleasant, not sticky or greasy, and does
not injure the hair in any way. [3
Bli
«w
CAPTAIN i((£4*
mem*
t
m
AU Hotels and
Licensed Stores
Mild, Mellow, Fully Matured
—a Liquor you’ll Appreciate
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
For COUGHS! COLDS! INFLUENZA!
and the PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION!
MWTVMj^I
neotcAL worm *vrs
6MOOWW Of GftCXT
=P^G.HUDSON
HARMFUL THROAT TABLETS.
Throat Tablets and Lozenges containing Formalin
(Formaldehyde) are harmful. Wiley, of the United
States, investigated the effects of small doses of
Formalin (Formaldehyde) given with milk on 12
men during 15 days. Burning in the throat, itching
rash and loss of body weight were observed.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
contain' no Formalin, Cocaine or other harmful or
poisonous drug.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6 ; or forward 1/6 in stamps
to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical
Co., Ltd., Sydney. [1
The Red Page
In a Book-shop.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Between these colored colonnades of Thought
Down which I walk ns to a music rare,
In breathless images of Beauty caught.
God’s life and death I share.
Wild harmonies of Eastern pipe and flute
Mix in the measure of a Doric dance,
Where Poesy in pages Fancy-mute
Slumbers with lost Romance.
By airy memories of palm and beach
Adventure whistles tp a wandering star,
Sailing the crystal labyrinth of speech,
Dream-led to lands afar.
Here Fairy-Fiction weaves her wonder-loom
With rainbow threads of paragraph and
phrase,
Mocking the troubled terraces of gloom
Where History’s banners blaze.
In precious parchments, holy as Content,
Philosophies forgotten trembling lie.
I turn the leaves with olden creeds besprent
And hear a dead world sigh.
O’er painted palisades of cloth and board
Young fairies spill world-laughter loose
and white,
'Mid azure letterings of crook and sword
Dimpling eternal Eight.
O rich, warm scent of volumes newly-bound,
Closing immortal melodies and deeds,
Clean leaf and page with living words pro-
found,
I follow where each leads.
Down through the murky avenues of Time
My soul goes singing 'in its search for
Truth,
Where fragrant books in silences sublime
Breathe everlasting Youth.
Green fields of Poesy, high hills of Thought,
Plains, streams and palaces o:f Wisdom
rare,
Within their miracle of Beauty caught,
God’s life and death I share.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
Burdens
The theory of Harrison Owen’s article
on “Burdens” (B. 13/5/’2O) is that in Aus-
tralia not enough attention is paid by the
poets to the use of the refrain. Refrain is
of two types: mechanical li-ne-refrain, and
thought-refrain; in the second type can be
included the stanza or half-stanza repetition
with slight variations. It is fair to sup-
pose that the critic of literary craft details
knows this.
In David McKee Wright’s “An Irish
Heart,” in the prelude to the book, the line:
Will you take it away, Roseen, in your shawl?
is the second line of each of the five stanzas.
In the first poem, “Norah’s Courting,” the
second stanza and the last are identical.
In the second poem, “Morn’s Desire,” the
refrain is:—
On the mountains of Morn’s Desire. >
In the fourth poem, “The Kissing of
Pegeen,” the mechanical refrain is the first
half of the second stanza repeated in
the last, and the thought-refrain is in every
stanza. In the sixth poem, “The Robin,” the
mechanical refrain is the “robin forty
years ago” in three of the four stanzas,
and again the thought-refrain in the long
terminal line of each stanza. In the seventh
poem, “Bridal Song,” the line
Happy Love, come in, come in!
is the refrain in alternate stanzas: In the
ninth poem, “The Holy Piper,” the first
and twelfth sections are identical, and a
thought-refrain sings through the second,
third and fourth sections. In the tenth
poem, “Sunset Bay,” the opening of each
stanza is the refrain. That should be enough,
’ think; it covers 11 poems and about a
ixth of the book, and eight mechanical
efrains and three additional thought-refrains
re cited.
To give only one of the Victor Daley
xamples, “The old men sit by me” is as
good a use of the refrain as there is in the
language. Henry Lawson has innumerable
instances of his magic ear for the simple,
unforced refrain which lifts a line into
dramatic and musical potency. Roderic
Quinn, Brunton Stephens, Paterson —these
and the other Australians are by the way.
It was Owen’s selection of McKee Wright,
the Australian master of the refrain in
all its poetic possibilities, for advice in the
matter of “burdens” which made me sit up.
FRANCIS BRIEN.
Stephens and the Celtic Revival
The Celtic revival, which was associated
with a slight literary bubbling in Wales, a
good deal of talk (mostly in London) about
the Highlands of Scotland, and a varied and
adventurous attack by Irishmen in a dozen
different departments of thought and effort,
has be?n, on the whole, a little disappointing.
It is true that there has been a revived in-
terest in the Celtic language and the study
of Celtic antiquities, that out of the shadowy
past the great forms of gods and goddesses
and godlike heroes have arisen in the shape
in which they presented themselves to Celtic
readers 15 or 20 centuries ago. and that
side by side with these developments there
has grown a more intense because more
understanding nationalism which has been
felt greatly in politics and very little under-
stood by non-Celtic politicians; butf in as far
as the movement has affected English litera-
ture it exhibits a puzzling paradox. Ire-
land is a country of Celtic tradition with a
large infusion of Celtic blood; but under
the ancient Celtic rulers there lived a large
pre-Celtic population, and this population
exists to-day, having through all the. years
preserved the Celtic tradition in a half-
understood way, much as the descendants of
the Maori might preserve the traditions of
the white settler in Maoriland. The writers
of the so-called Celtic revival have not made
any serious attempt to carry on in its purity
the genuine Celtic thought, but have in almost
all cases turned i.side to gather up the loose
and countless threads of fancy and supersti-
tion which belong to the inferior strata of
ancient thought. The rudest fairy tales
of a countryside, which had long diminished
the magnificent gods of the Western Pantheon
to mere freakish spirits of bog and lough,
have been sought as a key to the treasures
the past; and while this rusted key will opei
any number of doors, those doors are founc
to hide objects of somewhat doubtful value.
One thing particularly notable is that the
harsh and unlovely aspects of life are sougl :
to the practical exclusion of all that is jo
ous, light-hearted and warm with the poeti
of life; yet the people are light-hearted ant
joyous enough when you meet them, and tl
poetry of existence gets some sort of ex
pression wherever an Irishman talks oil -
side the pages of a modern Irish book.
Synge, with all his genius, is one of tli
worst offenders. In “The Tinker's Wedding
he painted a priest who was as unlike th
average priest as a fiintstone is unlike a
apple; in “The Playboy” he introduced a
aspect of peasant life which was so hateful t
average Irish thought that the play cause
a riot when put on the stage. In a wore,
the purely literary side of the Celtic reviva
has been curiously and intentionally unfai
both to the ancient Celt and to modern Ire
land. True, we have the poetry of Yeats
and that is something to be very thankfu
for. “The Countess Cathleen,” “The Lane
of Heart’s Desire” and a dozen or two o'
shorter pieces get straight to the heart; bu
a good deal of the mysticism of Yeats is no
Irish at {ill, has no kinship with grande
Celtic thought, but finds its inspiration ii
fur, strange places. The smell of liuliai
spices is not a very honest flavor about th
mounds of Tara ; and even when the page i
thick with Irish names that smell blow
through.
But Ireland is not dumb. One voice
comes to us which is wholly satisfying anc
wholly Irish. James Stephens, in the “Char-
woman’s Daughter,” gave us a slight, deli-
cate bit of Irish life-drama which left us
hungry for more; in the “Crock of Gold”
he gave his fancy wider play and set strange
wisdom in the midst of the most joyous riot
of folly, with an unerring feeling for the
truth as it is in Ireland ; in the “Demi-Gods”
lie flung the doors wide and gave us the
soul of his nation in the very epic of green
hedges and buoyant, triumphant poverty. I
should think the “Demi-Gods” might fairly
claim to be the most strikingly original work
of the last halfrcentury. It is not merely
an astonishing blending of Heaven and earth,
of man and all the infinities (as they are
always blended in the Irish mind, though
no one Seems to have discovered it before),
but a bringing of all into a gentle philo-
sophy of common things, so true and so con-
vincing that even those who are not Irish
must at times understand and warm to a
newer faith in themselves. The author is
inside the minds of the donkey and the
spider as surely as he is within those of
the angels and the outcast O’Brien; and be-
cause he understands so well the humor
sparkles everywhere, a humor of the under-
standing and the heart, not of superficiali-
ties. In the whole so-called Celtic move-
ment James Stephens stands out as the sav-
ing grace. Synge and Yeats did magnificent
work ; but nobody could understand Ireland
much better for it. The Celtic scholars —•
some of them Germans—brought back many
things to our knowledge that wisely known
are full of inspiring thought. Fifty other
writers have tried their hands—including
George Moore, who thought there was no
insuperable difficulty in turning an Irish
dawning into a Parisian midnight, and Ber-
nard Shaw, who imagined his country might
be a set of epigrams—but it is James
Stephens who has the soul of Ireland in
literary keeping. For the story of Ireland
is not a tragedy, in spite of all the graves.
Bits of it touch Heaven, and bits of it
skirt Hell; but in both regions there is good
laughter. The “Demi-Gods” have not ex-
hausted the possibilities. In literature as
in politics the Irish question is still un-
settled.
D. M. W.
The Criticism of Verse
On a fair estimate there would be pro-
bably 2,000,000 methods of poetry criticism,
most of them quite justifiable and correct.
The next man has his way, I have mine;
Sir Henry Newbolt has his, King Solomon
had one; and probably Nat Gould had one
that lie was too shy to mention. Dryden and
Ben Jonson had a cut at it; almost everyone
who could speak on paper has thought he had
something new to say about it. All with
the net result that poetry criticism stands
to-day just about where it always didthe
poets can’t analyse poetry methods, and the
critics, can’t write the poetry to see how it
is done. There have been heaps of theories,
but to my mind that is the dilemma at the
root of it.
One of the subsidiary troubles is that
editors and promoters of lectures are appa-
rently of the impression that the greater the
poet the greater the value of his explana-
tion of methods. That is almost absurd;
one wouldn’t choose a St. Bernard dog to
explain the theory of following a scent over
snow, however spotless his pedigree. New-
bolt has an important voice as a poet, -but
pei- se none as a critic. He has good tell-
ing things to say, of course; he couldn’t
help being expressive. The 12 lectures which
make up his New Study of English Poetry
ate most interesting, but, with the exception
of the “Poetry and Rhythm” chapter, they
are discourses, not examinations. And
“Poetry and Rhythm” is only concerned with
the broadest matters of technique. As in
his title, in his preface he is too wise not
to dodge the issue: “in spite of its profes-
sional origin, the book claims only to be
suggestive and not authoritative. Its whole
argument is, in fact, against academic and
scholastic authority.” That is a perfectly
fair platform for Newbolt —one would be
sorry to think he had any other view—but
I don’t think it is much good to the reader
looking for pearls of poetic craft-wisdom.
Why Newbolt should be expected to hand
(Continued on page 24.)


nee
Vims
Lies
Q
e
a
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS
w
%7\
; %
--
V
y /
=o
X
n!
MflM®
w>7
ms
UGfi
inw*
am
1X595.
\\s
SV&i
W^_
1X563
me
/ ll
,M)
* mJium
n
?/9f
r\
i'O
f flf
(■■•••S’* 1 ZaV
»»»^»*^
Vii ‘**v
6 '
1X627
1X1867
IX 586
1X875
HESE Blouses re-
-1 present a wide assort-
ment, which embraces
Blouses of every de-
design, of every degree
and for every occasion.
All proclaim value of
really unusual excel-
lence. Be sure and in-
spect the display: 3rd
Floor, George Street.
Quantities are limited.
IXs63.—Crepe de Chine Blouse, of a Very
Heavy Quality, in Pale Blue Shade, is orna-
mented with openwork stitchery, in rich, self-
tinted Silk. French Knots and a novel self-
tie effect bring individuality to the treatment
, of the neck.
59/6
IXlB94.—Dainty, Serviceable Blouse in Ivory
Jap Silk, made with novel-shaped roll collar
and narrow revers; fronts are hemstitched and
embroidered.
Price
29/6
IXs9s.—Exquisite Georgette Blouse, in Biscuit
Shade, fashioned with roll collar, to which
cable stitching in contrasting shades, and tiny
pearl buttons, give ornamental touches.
Price
29/6
IX627.—Exceedingly Rich the Quality of the Pale Pink Crepe de Chine
used in this semi-evening style. The round neck is outlined with jet b6ads,
which also form spray in front of Blouse. Ladder work, in rich silk thread,
also shares the honor of ornamenting the blouse, with groups of pin-tucks.
Jet Beads reappear as an embellishment to the wide bell sleeves.
Price
59/6
IXlB67.—Charming Blouse in Champagne Crepe de Chine, has round neck
finished crochet edging, front has groups of pin-tucks alternating with sprays
of embroidery. Seams are hemstitched, and sleeves have narrow, turn-back
cuffs.
Price
29/6
IXB7s. — This Design, in Striped Fuji Silk of Heavy Quality, has a long roll
collar, joined to narrow revers, and fastens in front with a group of three
buttons. It is made in plain shirt style, and has narrow, turn-back cuffs.
Color combinations are: Stripes of Myrtle, Helio, Saxe, Rose or Navy on
natural grounds, singly or in groups.
Price 25/6
IXsB6.—This Blouse represents a group of charming Crepe de Chine
Styles, having variously-shaped collars and embellishments; in three colors,
Pale Pink, Black, and Ivory, at the one price 29/6
This one has hemstitching and cable-stitching as decorative touches.
Price
29/6
We Pay Postage anywhere in New South Wales, and on Interstate orders to the neaiest port.
of our mail-order service.
You can rely upon the efficiency
Anthony Hordern & Sons Limited
The House of Economy a—' o BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.


MlCKg£j v
Erf
i%r
/■ >\V
K,#
IN
V-
L. * *:
; A
advt
Covers the World
GO where you will among motorists the world over, you will find that
Michelin Tyres are known and appreciated. Thousands upon
thousands of users prefer them, because Michelin has always set
Quality before Price.
VALUE is what every practical motorist demands. The value of a
tyre is the relation between its Quality and its Price. Tyre-value can be
estimated only in terms of MILEAGE—and this is just where Michelin
scores so heavily.
The huge superiority in Michelin Quality secures a mileage-average which
reduces cost-per-mile to a minimum.
MICHELINS will pay you best
advt
advt
advt
Made in One Quality Only—
The Best.
Obtainable only from bona-
fide Motor Traders.


jUI «
Rs 3
For Kiddies
If you have trouble in giving
your little ones an opening medicine
when they need it, try them next
time with Pinkettes. This new laxa-
tive is gentle and pleasant and will
be taken readily by all children.
They correct the stomach ailments
of children; are a good laxative in
feverishness and given when there
are signs of a cold coming on, are a
good thing to disperse it.
1/- per bottle at all dealers.
Write for free sample
mentioning “The Bulletin.’
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
How you can have the
Embroidery you Love
On your dainty blouse —your chic hat
—your new gown—your handbag, etc.
FOR THE, HOME:
On your curtains, your cushions, your
tablecloths, in fact, on anything.
r.y?} \
mm.
mi*
a
37
Machine for Hand Embroidery
So simple that a child can work it.
On Sale at all Leading Stores in Aus-
tralia. and shortly in N.Z.
Sola Australasian Representatives (wholesale
only):
Eastern Trading Co. Ltd.
Malcolm Lane (off George Street), Sydney.
Instruction given Free at above address
or by your local agent.
MARTIN’S PILLS
are sold by all chemists and stores. Ladies
recommend them. Be sure you get the
genuine with the signature:
MARTIN, Chemist, Southampton, England
CELEBRATED
B
5B
I
BThe Rapid Cure for Corn*.
CORNS POSITIVELY CURED
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
'has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young'*—hard or soft, and
that remedy is A’CORN SILK, which
removes the worst corn in a few days, and the
sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure —it kills them. It is a painless cure—
you don't feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz.:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
K. W. Bradley, Fitzroy Buildings, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Aberdeen House,
204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart.
R. H. Maxwell & Co., IS Howard Street,
Perth, W.A. [1
advt
New Styles in Smart
vSterio Cases
Sterio Cases are the boon companion of the
smart costume or dainty frock. Our wide
range of unique designs give an unusual
opportunity to ladies of fashion to select
something entirely new and distinctive.
Here is a charming illustration.
Xl2.—Artistic Black Morocco
Sterio Case, floral lined and fitted with
Purse and Mirror. Price 18/6.
Post free throughout Australia.
EXPERT MAILORDER CO.,
G.P.O. Box 2575, Sydney.
Also obtainable from
AMERICAN BAG STORES, LIMITED,
Corner Pitt & King Streets; Strand Arcade, Pitt Street; Sydney Arcade, George Street.
J
1
PS?
N 2
m
Hi
S 3
0
S'*
M
•«
The Dip you will Buy Again
Everywhere “Vallo” is rendering distinguished service.
Last season’s users are more than satisfied with the
results which this excellent Australian Dip has given
them. From all corners of the Continent come letters
conveying appreciation and repeat orders.
Powder SHEEP DIP
is finding its way to every important station. Its never-
failing efficacy, its long-lasting protection, its
beneficial action upon the sheep are features which have
impressed every one who has used it —and they will
impress you. Order your supplies now from your
storekeeper.
Look for the @ Trade Mark
advt
Manufactured by A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - BRISBANE
m.
fA
'S
% V
J
Ml i)i> 1)7)11^)11"
nTfrnrrm tprrrr
JPP
u"~ 'L
7=r
O 7 I
/
3S
V
©
$
&
*
a
Maf^S
orai'cl
pr rn'-To 2 >^“
r There is no slight-
ing of labor and
no skimping of
materials in the manu-
facture of T histle Shirts
—They are perfect but
easy fitting across the h
chest, do not bind at J
the arm holes, have full I
skirt length, stripes that 1
are centred and match f
properly , and pre-shrunken
neckbands that assure perfect
collar comfort. Thistle Shirts
are the best.
Sold at all Lending
Shirt Departments.
Have you tried
THISTLE PYJAMAS?
Alexander Stewart 8 Sons Ltd
Makers
Brisbane and Sydney.
93SS3U
AS
Shirts
VARIOURS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Song.
Oh, for a pen of singing fire
And magic ink of heart’s desire,
(Faster, faster flash, you jade,
To the music Orpheus made),
With run and ripple, turn and trill,
All living souls to stir and thrill
To melodies of youngest mirth
Above the green and gracious earth !
The happy world my book should be,
Its leaves the land, the sky, the sea.
(Oh, cold and passive slave of mine
Be filled and thrilled with poet’s wine.)
Each mighty verse with throb and flow
Should dart and flame, a rainbow glow ;
And every line, in beauty wrought,
A singer’s dream, a god’s high thought.
Then all great souls should wake and sing
Through my divine imagining.
(On, laggard, on ! The worm of Time
In your poor ink mocks dream and rhyme.)
The songs they wished to sing should rise
And drown the choirs of paradise,
Had I a pen of singing fire.
And magic ink of Heart’s Desire.
n.s.w.
ZORA CROSS.
First Violets.
Tell me, oh scented silent messengers,
From what pale gardens beneath purple skies
Have you enticed your perfumes? Where a
queen
Dreamed on her cushionings of Tyrian dyes,
The passionate blue sunk in her heavy eyes,
Blind to the curt of a king,
Some dark-eyed slave too well remembering?
From what horizon deep with amethyst
What royal cloud of. evening did you steal
The coloring for pathways for the bees
Towards your orange centre’s honey meal?
What alchemies can sad brown earth reveal,
What magic in the wind blown grains is set
To change grey dust to petalled violet?
Was it some dream I dreamed of my beloved?
Was it some thought he wove by night of me
That sprang to life among the heart-shaped
leaves
And called the butterfly and trapped the bee?
Some word that wrote itself in mystery,
Some music that was lost in a caress
Come to quick flower through floods of
happiness?
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Doors.
What shall be more than the things that
seem ?
And what shall be more to win?
Lo, a man shall knock at a door ot dream,
And a shadow shall cry “Come in!”
In the House of Life are a thousand lights
From the casements high and fair;
And who shall know what songs and sights
And warm, sweet things are there?
I came to a door and I passed within,
For the voice that called was kind;
And there was music faint and thin
That made my spirit blind.
For standing warm on the threshold floor
Was nought that my soul could see,
But the close bright latch of another door
.That called and called to me.
There shall be joy if the latch shall lift.
Surely, I said to my mind,
In the inner place shall be God’s great gift;
And the voice within was kind.
“Come in ! Come in !’’ And in wondering light
That fell on fair white floor,
I stood and saw not, for all my sight
YVas drawn to a distant door.
The sway of the curtain, the lifting latch!
Now what shall a man’s soul win?
An exquisite moment all time to match—
And another door within.
In the House of Life there are casements
fair
And long lights white and brave;
And what shall the heart of a man not dare
The soul of a man to save?
Door after door and a stronger light
And ever the selfsame cry—
On. heart, till faith shall be lost in sight,
For the gift of God is nigh !
I come to a door and I pass through a door.
To the God of the gift be praise
If the hinges shall turn for evermore
In the portals of nights and days!
To see and to know and to feel the thrill
Of the wonderful unknown thing!
This is the song that a man’s true will
In the pulse of his hope shall sing.
But always in joy there is set a fear.
Shall I enter by one wide door
And find four walls that are stark and sheer
Whence man shall return no more?
For the House of Life in a magic of dreams
Is built on an ancient dread ;
And a man may walk through a door that
seems
To the place where God lies dead.
Dead on the sables of Nothing-more
In the heart of a wailing cry—
“lt is light! It is light, but there is no
door
And the hope of the years is a lie!”
What shall be more than the things that
seem ?
Oh, foolish heart, be still!
Though God were dead, He shall live in the
dream
Of a door and a man’s high will!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


JMimL
o
!_
sdngle-Hcat Grill and Ovenette.
Bakes biscuits, cakes, potatoes, etc.,
roasts meat of all kinds. Pressed
steel, highly-polished nickel finish,
ebonised wood side-handles and
knob at top.
'-p HIS handsome and
useful little Ovenette
and Grill will save
much time and running
about in YOUR home. It
is handy, cleanly, self-
contained and can be
used at the table. It will
cook anything its capacity
will accommodate. Ideal
for use in the flat or for a
small family.
advt
The old-fashioned and
unreliable rubber hot-
water bag is permanently
superseded by this dur-
able Metal Flexible Heat-
ing Pad. Its heat can be
controlled and regulated
while its flat formation is
a decided advantage.
One of these will give
you winter comfort for
many seasons.
Our Showrooms display
many other equally con-
venient devices.
M
&
fxottmi
Safety (pmft
Metal Flexible Heating Pad, made of
hinged metal parts which permit
conformance to body curves or wrap-
ping around a limb. Temperature
controlled and maintained by a
small lever.
WG WATSON &C°L TD
279 Clarence S 1 Sydney' -
m
The Biggest Room in the World
We are reminded is the Room for improvement.
But when the best Cheese in Australia has been
improved into *
LUNCHEON CHEESE
that room map not be so verp big after all. Ihe
qualitp of "Rex'' Luncheon Cheese never varies. It
is alivaps piquant to the taste and perfectlp
matured. "Rex" Cheese aids digestion —even weak
digestions are benefited bp taking a little after each
meal.
Use it for sandwich making and savories. Ask
for "Rex.” in the 5-oz. tins and refuse substitutes
containing on/p 4-ozs. All Grocers sell “Rex.'
FOGG ITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
Packers of "Rex" Pure Food Products
Curers of "Rex' Hams and Bacon j 1217
WIV'»T
JY3t
VViNC H*
0^
/m-
JON
EcSsa
IS
EungssmsiES
MAGNETO IGNITION.
A big-, full-bodied spark at the first
turn of the flywheel,
THROTTLING GOVERNOR.
Saves fuel by adjusting the mixture
automatically to suit the load. Gives
the engine steady running—“smooth as
velvet” at all loads.
AUTOMATIC LUBRICATION.
Simply fill the oil-box once a month
and the Lister automatically delivers
oil to every part in the same way as
the highest type of motor-car engine.
2,3, 5,7, 9 Petrol or Kerosene.
Jjs?e&
advt
CARBURETTER.
The Lister carburetter has no “float”
and will not flood. Insurance Com-
panies look upon this as a very im-
portant feature because it reduces fire
risks.
DUST-PROOF CONSTRUCTION.
All bearings are dust and dirt-proof
under all conditions. The Light Horse
in Palestine used Lister Engines and
found the dust-proof feature worth its
weight in gold.
(i
The Rolls-
Farm Engines
9 9
What the Rolls-Royce Car is to the motorist so the Lister
Engine is to farmers in every part of the English-speaking
world. It is the Engine de luxe. The wonderful British
workmanship that makes the Rolls-Royce known as “the best
car in the world” is repeated in the Lister Engine.
Materials and workmanship are of the highest class. Steel
is not skimped and replaced by iron or malleable iron. Brass
is not sacrificed in the bearings for babbit metal,
Lister parts are not merely “lathe-finished.” They are ground
true to the thousandth of an inch. Speedy production is
not the aim in building Lister engines. Therefore, if you
put your money into a Lister engine you are getting the best
farm engine in the world. Side by side with high-class
materials and All-British workmanship, the Lister embodies
all the best ideas found in other engines as well as many
exclusive features.
i .
leister Portable Engine. Tank Cooled. Shafts
can be supplied in place of handpuils.
Why not invest your money in an engine that meets every
possible requirement, that is simple and economical to run,
costs nothing for upkeep and lasts a lifetime? Write to any
of the following agents for Booklet and all particulars.
Pangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd., 9-13 Young
Street, Sydney.
Wmchccmbe, Carson, Ltd., Brisbane,
A. W. Sandford & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Malloch Bros., Perth.
advt
laster Portable Engine. Screen Cooled.
Waggon with shafts.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Netvspaper.
VOL. 41.—N0. 2106.
THURSDAY, JUNE 24, 1920.
Pbice 9d.
WHERE THE CARCASE IS.
According to the cablegrams, the Federal and two State applications for advances in London have been coldly received, though the Federal Treasurer, Queensland Premier
and Victorian Attorney-General went there in person.
FIRST AUSTRALIAN EAGLE (gloomily): “What’s wrong with the carcase? There was always some meat on it before?”
SECOND EAGLE (miserably): “I b’lieve someone else has been at it.”
THIRD EAGLE (tearfully): “I’m afraid we’ve eaten it all ourselves.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 16s. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, to any address in Australasia, post paid.
To any address overseas, £2 per annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
re) used.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and Stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Illack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.1,;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 3 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; International House,
!il, Keric Street, Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., hhl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; the Boston Hat■ Works and News
Co., 109 A Eighth Avenue, West Calgary, Alberta.
U.S.A.—Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market
Streets, San Francisco; J. Roland Kay Co., 181/9
Conway Buildings, Chicago, U.S.A.; Liberty News
Co., Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.; Bretano’s, Fifth
Avenue and 27th Street, New York; Schulte News
Agency, Bryant Park, I,2nd Street and 6th Avenue,
New York City; Queen City News Co., Randolph and
Clark Streets, Chicago; Golden Gate News Agency,
719 Market Street, Chicago; George Hussey, Pershing
Square News Stand, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Honolulu.- —Fisher News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt.- —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. — Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai, Kulamadau and
Port Moresby.
Fiji, — A. Barker, Suva; Harry- Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands. 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Bioz. to 10oz..
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, 1,0 z., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
'ffuTSSxzlleZz/ri.
THURSDAY, JUNE 24, 1920.
THE STRIKE NUISANCE.
The great strike which the other day sus-
pended or partially suspended civilisation
in Melbourne presented the same features as
the last one; and the next one will be no
different. It began in a small way, but
one union after another joined in sympathy,
having much for the strikers and none for
the community. The decision which set
the ball rolling was not the result of a
ballot but of a mass meeting, which is a
gathering mainly of the young, the chroni-
cally hostile, the men who have no better
occupation for their spare time and the
sort of men who like meetings. By such
process Melbourne was left without light,
heat, power to run its industries and its
trams, or much chance to cook its own or
the baby’s food, in consequence of which
there is likely to be an increased death of
baby even after the strike is forgotten.
In other words, Melbourne was a battle-
ground, and a battleground may always ex-
pect to be wrecked. A feeble, lazy State
Government and a feeble, galvanic Federal
one had four courses open to them when
the trouble began—the same old four. Under
their guidance the big city and the State
might have surrendered right off, which
would have meant that they must also sur-
render next time, and the ensuing time, and
the time after that, and so on indefinitely.
Or they might have gone on hunger-strike,
hoping that their sufferings would ulti-
mately arouse the compassion of men like
Tom Walsh, the strikers, with aid from
unions in other States, suffering less than
anybody else. Or they might have met the
strikers on the ground which they had them-
selves selected and the one where they fight
best. Or, finally, the Governments might
have resolved on a brisk counter-attack.
They adopted the third plan. That is to
say, an attempt was made to run a few of
the suspended industries with a wholly in-
sufficient number of hopelessly untrained
volunteers who could only take up this work
by leaving other work undone, so that
success was a big loss while failure was a
bigger one. The number of campaigns that
have been won purely on the defensive isn’t
large. A counter-offensive would have
offered vastly . better chances of success.
And the way was, and always is, clear. The
strikers having suspended a lot of public
activities and put out of use a vast amount
of property that wasn’t theirs but the
nation’s, the nation might, so far as the
strikers were concerned, suspend the rest of
the public activities and put their share of
the rest of the mechanism out of gear. This
would include suspending the use of banks
(savings and other sorts) for the receipt
or payment of strikers’ money, the use of
the post-office for the delivery or despatch
of letters, the use of telephones, telegraphs,
gas meters, trains and tramcars, the use of
the law-courts as plaintiffs, the baby bonus
and other things. A strike would end sooner
for being thorough, reciprocal and mutual.
* * * *
The position is not what it was even a
handful of years ago. Australia has labor-
iously built up a supreme Government rest-
ing on the widest possible suffrage and has
constructed almost equally liberal State
Governments, so that Labor may put its
best men in power to give Labor by peace-
ful means whatever it wants, and make
brutal industrial civil war and savage in-
dustrial brigandage obsolete evils. If Labor
really doesn’t know what it wants, then the
destruction of other people’s happiness and
property isn’t the way to find out. If it
wants something that is impossible, then the
starving of other people’s babies is a poor
way to express its disappointment. If it
prefers to put its worst men in office and
trust its affairs largely to imported cranks
who are willing to burn Australia to ashes
if the advertisement will help them into a
Parliament at London or Dublin, the
country shouldn’t suffer for their monumen-
tal incapacity. Supposing the present sort
of arbitration to be a failure, then Labor in
office (it is there often enough) should
sunply a kind that won’t fail, and Labor
out of office should indicate what kind is
wanted. Supposing it doesn’t know how to
do this, it has no right to ravage the
country in wild-beast fashion as a protest
against its own ignorance. It should go to
night school and learn. No party could have
held more absolute power than Labor did in
the two big eastern States after May, 1915,
when there were purely Labor State Govern-
ments at Brisbane and Sydney and a purely
Labor Federal Government over all. Yet
the civil war went on just the same. It is
a poor sort of monarch who, being entrusted
with complete authority, can only rule his
dominions by brigandage, yet that was and
is the situation. Australia wants a well-
constructed, well-greased political machine
which will run smoothly and silently—not
management by spasmodic stoppages, up-
heavals and riots ending in compromises
that settle nothing and disgraceful surren-
ders that settle nothing either.
* * * *
There are many things which Labor de-
mands that the community would be quite
willing to grant if Labor in office would
devise some way by which it could grant
them legally and peacefully and without
the grant being a humiliating surrender to
some bumptious and truculent industrial
pirate—probably imported. The nation
doesn’t want the control of its country taken
out of its hands by a dynasty of bumptious
pirates. It suits the chronic strike-leader
amazingly well that the machinery for the
settlement of industrial troubles should be
so inefficient and rusty that he can make a
high place for himself as the medium through
which redress or concession must be applied
for—as the self-appointed champion of the
people, the king of the poor (having first
manufactured the necessary poor to be king
of) and the general court of appeal. But
a democratic self-governing people has
no room for uncrowned kings. Presumably
if these monarchs are still allowed to run
riot the machinery for the settlement of
industrial troubles will still be allowed to
remain rusty. If, on the other hand, they
are vigorously suppressed, then the party
they claim to represent may take the trouble
at long last to produce in detail the scheme
which will satisfy it in place of disorder
and upheaval, and (where it is in office)
will proceed to enact it.
THE PACIFIC AND THE BALANCE
OF POWER.
It was officially announced in Tokio last
week that the Japanese and the British had
agreed on a continuance of the Alliance.
“Something more definite,” the message went
on, “may perhaps be announced on July 12.
Meanwhile the Alliance remains, as ever, the
guarantee of the peace of the world.” Has
any alliance ever been worth tuppence as a
guarantee of the peace of the world, or even
of the peace of two States? It is not neces-
sary to go further back than the memory of
living man to get the answer. Austria,
which signed the Treaty of Berlin in 1878,
grabbed Bosnia and Herzegovina 30 years
later, and thereby sowed seeds that yielded
their harvest in the late war. France
treated the Act of Algeciras as non-existent
when a favorable moment arrived to do so
with territorial profit. Italy has been
violating treaties for quarter of a century;
and Italian ambitions in Fiume and Albania
are imperilling the peace of the world to-day
as they did in Tripoli nine years ago. Rus-
sia never kept an agreement under Czardom
where faith conflicted with expansion; and
the present Bolshevik Government, though
pledged to pacifism, has evidently the
same hostile designs on Persia as the Russian
Imperial Government conceived after the
institution of the first Persian Parliament in
1909, the wretched country’s sole offences
then, as now, being wealth and helplessness.
In 1914 Germany violated Belgium and
Luxembourg, and, later, every other weak
State that stood in front of its objectives,
despite sacred undertakings to the contrary.
The nation had precedent to back it.
Frederick the Great, a very typical German,
regarded detrimental treaty-keeping as imbe-
cility. Even Britain, commercially the most
honest of the Powers, has in this regard an
ignoble record ; and the Japanese have shown,
during their country’s brief existence as a
world-Power, that they can swallow their
pledged words as adroitly as the most oppor-
tunist of their Western mentors. And what
else could you expect? The Divorce Courts are
working double-time all over the civilised
world because individuals who swore before
God to stand by one another for life have
found the contract distasteful or disad-
vantageous ; and nations are only individuals
writ large. The League of Nations itself
will be no more than a tremendous treaty,
assuming it ever materialises; and its pros-
pects of success may be fairly tested by the
events which immediately succeeded the first
Peace Conference at the Hague in 1899.
« 8 &
Of course there are factors which make
for friendliness. For example, community
of interest or race. No other bond holds the
dominions and the United Kingdom together ;
and where any different tie is introduced,
as in the case of Ireland, friction, if not
disaster, is liable to occur. Britain has
few interests in common with Japan; Aus-
tralia, the nearest as well as the richest
prize at the hand of an awakened Asia, has
none at all. There never can be any real
social or industrial understanding between
ourselves and a people whose women and
children work seven 10-hour days a week in
factories and on the land. The race ques-
tion apart, that leaves us no alternative
except to either keep Asiatics and their
goods out of this country, or adopt their
standard of existence. It is not possible for
a nation possessed of a small and, on the
whole, out-of-date navy, and whose workers
are every month and every week hoisting
their wages higher and higher, to enter into
an armament-competition with a country
like Japan, which during the war built an
entirely new fleet (so that its navy is now
exactly twice as strong as it was in 1914) ;
which is spending £30,000,000 on additions
to that fleet this year and £100,000.000 later,
and which can buy skilled labor and sailors
at from one-third to one-twentieth of their
cost to Australia. What road to safety, then,
remains? Plainly a reliance on the balance-
of-power principle which Britain —despite
its alliance with Japan and despite the
visionary Wilson’s hostile sentiments on
the subject—is now evidently bent on trans-
ferring to the Pacific. Balances of power,
which have existed since the early days of
Rome, were never maintained for long by
treaties, or by anything whatever but the
self-interest of the parties concerned. Italy
had no hesitation in forsaking the Germanic
alliance when it realised that more was to
be got from the Entente. The Franco-Rus-
sian alliance of 1896 would have collapsed
in a month had not both parties to it real-
ised that Germany was growing dangerously
in strength and rapacity. The French and
English are, a.s Hamerton pointed out, anti-
pathetic in almost everything and they were
never more so, without actually fighting,
than at the end of the second Boer War.
Yet the common peril indicated by the Ger-
man Navy Bills of that period brought them
together; and no signed agreement was
needed to keep them together till the storm
broke 10 years later. Japan may have no
designs at the moment on any part of the
British Empire. But its present Government is
arming; and certain British possessions indi-
cate themselves as regions upon which some
Chauvinist Asiatic administration of the
future is likely to employ those arms. When
that time comes an Anglo-Asiatic treaty will
no more in itself save, for example, Australia
than the sheaves of treaties executed by
the different European Powers over Northern
Africa have availed to save Morocco,
Tripoli and the rest from the white races.
This country’s fate will depend on the
efficacy of its co-operation with the one
Power which cannot go back on it.
» * # •
The Commonwealth has £150.000,000
worth of trade to protect, as well as its
national liberty and .its White Australia
ideal. There is a section—and it is signifi-
cant that most of its members are pacifists
or internationalists—which argues that all
of these things may be held by an army: and
a small army at that. History, and more
especially modern history, gives the claim
the lie. Napoleon had the most formidable
army of his period, and it could not save
him. His power, like that of the mediaeval
sorcerers, ended at the water; and the
basis of his ultimate ruin was Trafalgar.
Germany won innumerable battles on land
right up to 1918, but it had no hope of win-
ning the war once its submarine campaign
failed: it was beaten in the last result by
a navy whose sailors for the greater part
never had the pleasure of seeing a German
ship in action. The Jellicoe scheme pro-
vides, so far as Australia is concerned, for
a navy effective alike as a harbor defence
force, for the direct defence of the nation’s
trade, and for striking purposes. And the
cost is to be £4,000.000 a year. Japan spent
£20,000.000 for such purposes in 1918; over
£25,000.000 in 1919; and it is spending
£30.000,000 this year. For a contribution
of 7.24 per cent of its total cost. Australia
can have the use of a fleet equal
to that to which the Japanese aspire,
not to mention the prestige and pos-
sible help of the British fleets in other
seas. It is sea-power at 15s. per year
per head of our pre-war population—
national defence at bargain-sale rates. And,
more, it represents a priceless guarantee of
peace. Once Australia takes its place on
the Caucasian scale of the Pacific Power
balance it will probably have to wait for
another war either till the world forgets
what happened to Germany in 1914. or till
Britain itself goes the way of all greatness.
MIXED RACES, ESPECIALLY THE
WRONG ONES.
Melbourne ia more “loyal” in the old, ortho-
dox way than the cities further north, so it
performed more on Empire Day. At its
functions some gags were produced which
were trite and self-evident, and some that
many people begin to think obsolete. Amohg
the former was the statement that Australia
requires much more population to make it
safe against the claim that its people have
forfeited at least the northern half of it,
as the Dutch did before them, for “lack
of effective occupation.” Among the latter
was the sorrowful statement that it is im-
possible to fill up with the Anglo-Scottish
race and that strangers are unavoidable. To
quote Rodgers, M.P.: “If greatness is to
be achieved for Australia the Australian
nation must learn to absorb people of other
races,” and “unless that can be done Aus-
tralians will be marching along false and
fallacious lines.” The question arises whether
this isn’t largely or wholly bunkum.
A certain admixture of such people as
Frenchmen and Belgians and Italians of the
higher class—folk with a great record in
art, science, literature and industry—may be
highly desirable because they tend to counter-
act British stodginess and prevent the
national character being too like damper.
But the need for Russians and Hungarians
and Poles with grievances, and Germans
with junker traditions, and such like for
mere filling-up purposes is a myth.
* » * «
England, with about C5O persons to every
square mile, had got to a point before the
Great War when it could spare 400,000 emi-
grants of its own race per year. That was
nearly the whole increase by surplus of births
over deaths; and for some years at least the
loss of 600,000 would give blessed breathing-
space. In 1801, when John Bull’s end —
the most crowded end—of the British Isles
had only 158 persons per mile (under
9,000,000 in all), it was absurd to say that
Australia could be filled up with such people
only. There weren’t enough to go round. In
1851, when England, despite a good deal of
emigration, had 308 persons per mile
(18,000,000), it looked rather less absurd.
Now with 650 inhabitants per mile (about
35,000,000 and that despite enormous
emigration) the proposition is quite reason-
able. England is full —has filled up over-
night, so to speak. One of three things is
inevitable—a gigantic slop-over into some
place like Australia, where the race can be
kept together; a gigantic slop-over into
foreign countries, where it will be either
mixed or absorbed, possibly by hostile people
who will one day arm the mixed race with
a g.un to shoot at the fairly pure race; or a
gigantic decline of the birth-rate and stop-
page of the race while other peoples get
ahead of it. The birth-rate is, in the long
run, mostly a matter of space—inhabitable
space, that is. In the days of Manasseii,
after 800 years of occupation, there were
not enough visible and reliable Jews to fill
the 2500 or 3000 square miles between the
Dead Sea and the Mediteri’anean. But
Nebuchadnezzar, and after him Titus and
others, upset the Hebrew beehive, and the
bees swarmed. The compulsorily-dispersed
people found room, though often it was very
inhospitable room, to multiply, and now
they lend “monish” to all the human race.
It was dispersion, which may be dated first
from the time of the broken treaty of Limer-
ick and seeond from the famine, which made
the Irish, previously a small folk cramped
in a small isle of moderate resources-, a
world-wide institution and a good half of
Premier Storey’s party in N. S. Wales.
The Russian has, or had before he was Bol-
sheviked, an amazing birth-rate, not on
account of the gloom or the bears or the
Czar or the dirt or the vodka, but by reason
of the space. The Anglo-Scottish race alone
could fill almost any empty place that had a
respectable climate—fill it quite sufficiently
and in a reasonable time. It is all
a question whether it is proposed to aim at
the wholesale multiplication of Anglo-Scots
or of Huns, Bolsheviks, sundries and hybrids.
‘The world is no longer big enough to allow
of a wholesale order for more than one. And
Macßull, whatever his drawbacks, is the
one we know best and the one who fits best
into the Australian picture.
*• * *
As it chances, the kind of population that
Australia most wants is also the kind that
Macßull the Anglo-Scot, is most ready to
part with. He isn’t specially anxious to
separate from his agricultural population,
and though Australia badly requires white
agriculturists of the cotton and tea and
coffee and beet and cane growing sort, the
immediate demand for the wheat and potato
variety, which is most plentiful in the British
Isles, is not enormous. And if we did get
that species in quantities and showed it the
sort of land that is most on offer now, he
would be too full for words. But for skilled
artisans and tradesmen this is almost a vir-
gin field. Its possibilities are stupendous—
if asinine Governments and trades unions
and repatriation departments and Freeshoddy
newspapers could only see it. Australia
wants men and women, so long as they are
trained, fairly healthy and not criminal,
from the British cities, not to put them into
its own existing cities, but to spread them
among minor towns all over the land. In
many cases these dwellers in the backways
of bloated British centres are narrow of
outlook and stunted of- frame. But so long
as they are not herded into the backways
of bloated centres on arrival there is no
reason why their children, still less their
grandchildren, should not be of the best.
And there is no reason why they should live
the life of mean, congested streets here. A
generation or two of sane living may turn
a herd of dwarfed Anglo-Scot families into
robust and intelligent ones; but there is no
probability that it would turn a herd of Hun
or Russian settlers into anything save bigger
specimens of what they are: just as no
amount of feeding and ventilation will make
a Jew other than a .Tew. It is unwise to
experiment with mixed races, especially when
there is no need for it. The northern sec-
tion of the United States has had an experi-
ment in the wholesale assimilation of mix-
tures ; and brief as the experiment has
been it is uncertain what hybrid will pre-
dominate in the end- Brt suspicion exists
that it may be the wrong one.


FRESH ROUTES FOR ANCIENT
RUTS.
The last time I passed through the Suez
Canal Tommies and Indian troops were
hastily entrenching on the Turkish side, and
the first Australian armada was a few hours
out from Suez. To-day gangs of coolies are
collecting the vast debris of war and dump-
ing it along the Canal for transportation.
All the length of the grey, ugly ditch the
bank is honeycombed with trenches, and out
into the desert stretches a cobweb of rusty
wire entanglements. At one spot is a dump
of light railway material sufficient to span
a minor continent; and strings of camels
float up and over the long desert swells,
bearing fresh salvage from the wreck.
Near the Bitter Lakes we tie up to the
bank to let an oil-tramp through. Not a
living thing is in sight. Then, with a sud-
den windy roar, an aeroplane soars like a
great bird across our forestay, glides along
our side on a level with the lower portholes,
and comes to rest in the desert near by, no
longer a bird but a gaily-painted dragon-fly.
Out of its body bounds a little black Irish
poodle, followed by a large brown bulldog.
These are joined by an officer in khaki, bare-
headed under the fierce Egyptian sun, and
a pilot clothed in dungarees and grease-
spots. The four move across to the Canal
bank and hail the ship. The officer wants
a friend, a passenger from India. They
have flown from Cairo on the off-chance of
meeting him, and will fly him back there.
Meantime they will just buzz across to
Suez for afternoon tea and pick him up at
Ismailia.
It leaves us a little breathless, this talk
of long distances as if they were mere cat-
leaps. From our floating palace, imprisoned
in the narrow gutter dug by De Lesseps, we
watch the curious quartette walk back to
their dragon-fly, climb into its palpitating
bowels and go soaring over an oasis in
the direction of Suez.
Port Said is full of British, French and
Indian soldiers. Motors patrol the streets.
There are the usual rumors of native trouble
and more than the usual truculent inso-
lence from the swarms of street parasites.
There is real trouble brewing over the sky-
line, and there has been some fighting. At
the moment when the friends of the Young
Turks were asking the Peace Conference
to give Turkish Nationalism another
chance, Mustapiia Kemal’s followers took
that offered by the poorly-manned Allied
garrisons to drive the French, with 800
casualties, out of Marash, celebrating their
victory with the customary massacre of the
Armenian population. On March 8 the
National Syrian Congress, sitting at Damas-
cus, proclaimed the independence of Syria
and offered Emir Feisal the kingship of
Palestine and United Syria. That pictur-
esque person, whose romantic appearance
and fiqe bearing so captivated the naive and
susceptible politicians of the Paris Con-
ference, promptly accepted it. At the same
time and place a Mesopotamian Congress
proclaimed the independence of Mesopotamia';'
under Emir Abdullah, the brother of
Feisal. Two days later 52 members of the
Legislative Assembly at Cairo proclaimed
the independence of Egypt and the Sudan.
Turks and Arabs have united in a deter-
mination to turn the French out of Syria,
and are threatening Alexandretta* Adana
and other important centres of Asia Minor.
Arabia is to be for the Arabs. This is
the new doctrine which the dilatoriness of
the Big Four and the dissensions of the
Allies have created in the wreckage of Asia
Minor. The awakening of national senti-
ment is a much stronger thing than the
sentiment fostered by the sham spiritual
claims of the Sultan which made Hindus and
Mohammedans in India join in incongruous
alliance to mourn over the proposed expul-
sion of the Grand Turk from Stamboul.
But whether the Sultan stays in Constan-
tinople or not, Feisal intends to stay in
Damascus. To the sorrow of our Hebrew
millionaires, who were preparing to leave
Fifth-avenue and Potts Point to return to
their ancestral home, there will be no far-
flung new* Zion in Palestine. The Arab cul-
tivator has no intention of giving up his
holding to any alien. For the Armenians
and Jewish minorities there only, remains
the alternative of uniting in government
with the Arabs or suffering a persecution
probably worse than that of the Turks. The
French, English, Italian and Greek dream
of finding in Asia Minor a vast Tom
Tiddler’s ground requires for its realisation
the wholesale reconquering of provinces
restored to the Arabs and the crushing of a
national spirit thoroughly aroused. The
crushing of national spirit, as the Allies
have found in various parts of the world,
is an exciting pastime, rapidly becoming-
unfashionable. Even the blessed word
“mandate” fails to make it lucrative.
It was a young Oxford graduate named
Lawrence who had most to do with the
genesis of this new Arab empire. While
the limelight shone brightly upon Feisal,
Lawrence was quietly at work amongst the
disunited tribes of the Iledjaz. He accom-
plished what caliphs and sultans had failed
to achieve in the course of centuries, and
out of the warring Bedouin tribes created
a unified force with which he drove the
Turks out of Arabia.
Standing under the statue of De Lesseps
that waves an inviting hand towards his
tedious ditch, we felt that this link of empire,
forged so laboriously and defended in the
latest war at such a cost of good British and
Australian lives, has become a very shqky
link indeed. With a potential Arab empire
stretching from Mosul to Damascus and
from Damascus to the Hedjaz on the one
side, and on the other Egypt demanding
independence more and more insistently, the
great Canal becomes as a line of communi-
cation strategically unsound. The remedy
is obvious. It should be abandoned before
it is seriously threatened. Let the desert
blow into it, or drain it, and let the Arab
cultivate in it Jerusalem artichokes or what-
ever the Arab is in the habit of cultivating.
Develop instead a line of communication
which can never be cut —the route through
the air.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Australia He Hasn’t Seen.
It grows tiresome to read in the Morning
Toad that the Prince of Wales took £5O
to £7 10s. about Doughpuncher’s chance in
the Lightweight Handicap, and danced the
fish-roll three times at the Importers’ Ball
with Miss Jazza. There is no harm in the
youth punting or fox-trotting, but the daily
load of twaddle about his indulgence in
these fruitless pastimes and the daily im-
plication (it hits you in the eye) that Aus-
tralia ought to be eternally grateful to him
for indulging in them are not to be suffered
in silence. The truth is that he punts and
fox-trots with no greater facility or splen-
dor than the average gilded youth who has
lots of money to spend and lots of time
to spend it in; moreover, punting will set
no new jewel in the Crown, nor will fox-
trotting add a cubit to his kingly stature.
It is the Prince’s misfortune to be thrown
among people who consider punting the
noblest work of man, and fox-trotting the
grandest achievement of woman; but Aus-
tralia —the real Australia' —has other views,
and it is by Australia, and not by preten-
tious snobs or crawling flunkeys who profess
to sneak for it, that his measure will be
taken, as prince and man. Of Australia —
the real Australia —the visitor has seen little.
His itinerary has been butchered to make a
profiteers’ holiday, and has been degraded to
the level of an advertisement for the idle rich.
He has been exultingly grabbed by, and used
as a means of glorifying, the various cliques
that parade their magnificence in the bloated
cities —the political clique, the moneyed
clique, the military clique. His presence
has been made the pretext for an
orgy of flaunting extravagance which con-
trasts harshly with the poverty and misery
that is the dark background of the picture.
Indeed, there are times when the King’s
son must wonder whether he is really in
Australia or some showy, unfamiliar suburb
of Cockaigne. Geographically speaking, he
is in Australia, but in the deeper sense of
the word he hasn’t seen it, and the danger
of all the pomp and vanity in which he has
moved for the last three weeks is that he
will never see it. It is thousands of miles
from the tawdry region of snobbery, grovel
and vulgar display—the real Australia, the
Australia that works, that fights, that made
the sacrifices, that conquered the wilderness;
the Australia that is democratic through
and through, the Australia that is friendly
and hospitable, but will lick no man’s boots:
the Australia which holds that too much
of the nation’s substance is lavished upon
the idle pursuits of idle people in overgrown
cities. It would be a pity if the Prince
departed without getting to “know Australia ;
a greater pity if all that Australia got to
know of him, after separating the truth
from the lies, was that he danced the fox-
trot with several flappers and backed a
dismal nrocession of Doughpunchers with
Israel Moses.
When the Wells Run Dry.
The Bulletin has preached every week for
more than quarter of a century that Aus-
tralia should take the straight path of in-
dustry and self-reliance; and now it begins
to see the time ahead when its gospel will
be accepted. But there is one great differ-
ence. This paper urged its idea as a
voluntary reform when direct State taxa-
tion (there were no Federal war or other
taxes then) stood at about ss. per head per
annum, and an increase to £2 ss. would have
provided a railway-building fund on a splen-
did scale without the community turning a
hair. Now the reform looms as a matter
of compulsion through credit giving out, and
it looms at a time when the losses created
by the disastrous loan policy have put up
direct State taxation (war taxes and other
Federal imposts not included) to something,,
approaching £2 15s. or £3 per head per
annum, and when it would require an in-
crease to £7 to provide a works policy at
anything like the rate Australia is accus-
tomed to. Fools in office and fools out of
office declared the increased taxation impos-
sible. Now wdien it only serves to pay
interest on a dead horse it is proved possible.
In the interim, however, has arisen a genera-
tion corrupt and flabby through easy re-
course to the pawnbrokery, a generation
that has run short of the virtues of citizen-
ship and has become an object of distrust
in London, where distrust signifies more than
it does anywhere else. Therefore the news has
been broken to Minister Robinson that it
isn’t the right time for his £6,000,000 loan,
though Robinson represents Victoria, the
most solvent and level-headed and reputable
of the States nowadays, and he isn’t asking
for new money to go gadding with, but
merely for the renewal of an old bill. And
Federal Treasurer Watt, who has been try-
ing to persuade the British Government to
take a lien on Australia’s share of the Hun
indemnity in payment for an urgent debt,
lias' been told that the security isn’t good
enough. And Theodore, of Queensland, who
wants £9,000,000, has been compelled to abase
himself in the struggle to get it. and doesn’t
look like succeeding even then. On the same
day that told how Robinson was handed the
glassy eye appeared a message which ex-
plained many things. It set out that the
British Government proposed to pay off
£230.000.000 (£5 2s. per head, equal to
£25.500,000 for Australia’s population) of
debt this year, and £300.000.000 (£6 13s. per
head, equal to over £33.000,000 for Austra-
lia) next year. In addition it has wiped
off a few odd debts (£25,000,000 or so) to
Japan and Argentina. A country that takes
its affairs in that spirit has little money
to spare for road repairs and so on in Aus-
tralia ; and it has nothing but contempt,
which is bad, and suspicion, which is worse,
for a people who, instead of rising to the
occasion, fall further below it than ever.
—♦
“The Sins that Ye Do.”
The Bolshevik trade emissary Krassin ap-
pears to have failed dismally in his mission
to London. To the lunatics or criminals who
seized control of Russia it seemed as obvious
as it was easy to take other people’s money
and spend it for the benefit of the “workers.”
In the hectic days that followed on the Ker-
ensky regime a number of principles were
enunciated which found favor amongst the
Marxian brethren all over the world. The
surplus property of the rich was to make
the poor happy. The capitalist and the
bourgeois were to be thrust aside. The
toiler of the Socialist State would not only
work; he would also administer. Everyone
was to labor a little, and no one much. And
so forth. Such theories betrayed a vast
ignorance of human nature. Money is not so
much elaborately engraved paper, nor even
so many pieces of silver or gold. If it is
to be of any real use to the owner it must
be generally acceptable. The Bolshevik
paper failed so hopelessly before this test
that, after a few months of Leninism, it
took scores of roubles to buy what had pre-
viously been purchasable with one. There
was little or no inducement to work for
wages, and production suffered. About the
same time the discovery was made that the
Socialist worker, however passionately faith-
ful to the cause, mostly lacked technical
skill in management and organisation. These
things led presently to.compulsory labor and
long hours, while most of the big industrial
concerns were passed back to the control of
the reactionary classes. Krassin is him-
self anti-Bolshevik. He was manager of a
Petrograd firm of German engineers before
the Revolution, is reluctantly employed
because of his business capacity, and looks
to the re-establishment of his firm as his
reward. Insido less than two years Lenin
has thus completely boxed the industrial and
financial compass, in accordance with the
well-known Machiavellian maxim which en-
joins the prudent ruler “not to keep faith
when by so doing it would be against his
interest,” and “to leave the mind so watch-
ful that when it is needful to be otherwise
he may change to the opposite qualities.”
His Government is making a pathetic effort
to change. It is willing to swallow its
convictions wholesale. But there are offences
which the world of trade is afraid to con-
done. The British Government went to the
U.S.A, in 1915 and got millions of dollars
and unlimited supplies, not for bullion but
on the nation’s word of honor. That confi-
dence had been built up by years of business
probity ; and it is being reinforced now by
the nation’s heroic method of discharging its
war debts. At some future date foreign
financiers and traders without whose help
Russia cannot exist as a civilised State
will trust a Russian Government, again ; but
not before the workers whom Leninism was
designed to benefit have known further bitter
suffering. The Robin Hood business may
have paid in Sherwood Forest seven cen-
turies ago: there is no place for such a sys-
tem in the complex world of to-day.
The Big Ship.
J. H. M. Abbott comes in with the Renown.
One hundred and thirty-two years ago a King's ship
came sailing up the coast of N. S. Wales on a morn-
ing in January. She was not very much of a ship,
small, unhandy and ill-found, but she represented
British naval power in ,the South Seas. H.M.S. Sirius
was of 612 tons, and carried 20 little guns of the
size of the one beside her anchor in Macquarie-place
in Sydney. The other morning the city went to see
H.M.S. Renown come racing along the same water-
way—the Renown of 32,000 tons and a gun-power
exceeding that of the whole of the British fleet of
the Sirius’s day!
The Newcastle Company’s fine steamer Hunter
sailed from the old Coal River at midnight on the
15th, and in the dawn stopped her engines and
waited a few miles south of Sydney Heads. It was
a dull morning, and the visibility was bad to the
southward —mainly owing to the great bank of
smoke that drifts seaward from Sydney in the months
of the westerly. Below Botany the horizon was
vague and hazy, and the edge of the world ill
defined. So we waited and watched, infinitely enter-
tained by the proceedings of six destroyers that
played about us like big porpoises. A little inshore
were three red-funnelled steamers of the North Coast
Co.’s fleet. Along the top of the cliffs towards the
Gap the skyline bristled with spectators.
From the bridge of the Hunter the haze ahead
was dense and brown, and almost up to 8 o’clock
there was no sign of the great ship. Suddenly
something immense loomed up as a grey silhouette
against the drab curtain of smoke, like a towering
castle that had somehow got afloat. It was the
Renown, racing towards us, with a “bone in her
teeth,” and her towering superstructure and great
beam magnificently displayed. It was no time before
she was abeam of us—the racing escort of destroyers
speeding northw'ard upon either side of her—and her
beautiful lines completely visible. End on, she is
massive and gigantic; from a broadside view, as
graceful as a racing-yacht. At the foremast flew
Admiral Halsey’s flag, at the main the royal stand-
ard, and her signal halliards broke often into colors.
It was here that the captain of the Hunter —greatly
to his delight, and that of his guests on the bridge
—scored a point over the other steamers that were
out with spectators. He had hoisted H B Z as
the Renown approached, and in the international
code this spells Welcome. As the big ship rushed
past us she hoisted bunting that said “Thank you
very much indeed.” None of the other captains
had thought of giving her the glad hand in the
way that Captain Heron did.
As she rushed by the great impression was one of
overwhelming and grim power. Hardly a soul was
visible on her decks, and with her great guns point-
ing from their turrets she looked like some mighty
fortress prepared for anything of offence or defence.
A wonderful work of man’s brain and hands; and
even if you might deplore the necessity of her, it
is not possible but to admire her strength and
beauty. Her proportions are so fine that it is not
easy to grasp her vastness all at once. H.M.A.S.
Australia is no chicken, and her tonnage is 19,200.
Between that and the Renown’s 32,000 there is the
difference of another big ship of nearly 14,000 tons.
As she swung round to enter the Heads, a couple of
miles or more away from us, she hid a long stretch
of North Head, and made the destroyers look like
Rob Roy canoes, as they turned into Port Jackson
with her. Yet they are all a good deal larger than
the Sirius was. One wondered what Captain Phillip
or Captain Cook or Matthew Flinders and his
friend George Basis would have thought of the big
ship. But, maybe, they were looking on, and, being
sailor-men, did not think such a lot of her as we
did. She is very fine to look at, but a full-rigged
ship under all her sail is fine enough also.
Over her, as she approached the harbor, a couple
of aeroplanes circled and swooped—one of them
swooped like a broken-winged duck into Woolloo-
-mooloo Bay when the Hunter was landing hey passen-
gers —and looked like buzz-flies annoying some huge
beast. They made one wonder what it was going
to be —the air or the sea —when the next, or the
next but one, big fight comes along. Fifteen years
ago there were no aeroplanes worth mentioning, and
no ships like this one. Fifteen years hence, who
can say now what will be? Possibly an empty sea-
surface over which these birds will hover, looking
for "the monsters that lurk below it. Possibly some
devilish devices of slaughter that will altogether
supersede the bird-men and the fish-men.
Meantime it is disquieting to reflect that there
is no dock in Australasia that can accommodate the
Big Ship.
Free Railways.
The N.S.W. Railway Commissioners lately
informed ex-Treasurer Fitzpatrick that
they see no points about the suggestion that
freights and fares should be purely nominal
and that the taxpayer should pay the loss.
The suggestion comes periodically from the
class that samples all the new patent medi-
cines and looks for salvation in anything
rather than intelligent work. Their idea is
that it would be a democratic inspiration to
let “a frde people have the free use of their
own railways.” The fact that the Austra-
lian people as a whole don’t own a yard
of railway, the entire concern being mort-
gaged to Private Enterprise, is left out of
consideration. Nevertheless, quite possibly
some “advanced” Government will give the
scheme a trial, being incited thereto by im
ported anarchists who have nothing to lose
in these parts. The results will be memor-
able. The traffic will double or treble or
quadruple or multiply by ten, though a lot
of it will be left behind for want of room
or will be crowded off by the wayside. The
bill for working expenses will blight all pre-
vious records or imaginings. People who
now lean up against fences will lean against
railway-carriage interiors instead. Night
trains will furnish a cheap doss, and all
kinds of trains will be a refuge from the
rain. The last feeble defence against the
ruin of the country by the building of un-
payable lines will vanish, for their special
unpayableness will cease to appear. When
all lines are intentionally run at a loss of
974 to 100 per cent, the difference between
a railway to a rising city and one to a dead
wombat will be nil so far as the public
knows. And the race of good managers and
officers will die out. The supreme test of
a manager is that he supplies a good service
and makes it pay. When a good service is
impossible through a thousand deadheads sit-
ting on the roof or riding on the buffers,
and payableness is prohibited, one aboriginal
will make as good a manager as another.
Yet it is all not a whit madder than the
schemes of repudiation and unlimited paper
money which Australia allows its wild-eyed
adventurers, mostly of foreign extraction, to
preach to it, and which, some of its mis-
guided papers dally with.
•
Death in the Advt.
A couple of months ago, when the Hughes
Government was trying to persuade the
States to forego their unexercised air-powers,
and so make legally possible a uniform Avia-
tion Act for the Commonwealth, N. S.
Wales stood out in opposition to the pro-
posal. It is poetic justice that N. S. Wales,
more particularly Sydney, should have had
rather more than its share of dangerous fly-
ing since then. And the end is evidently
not yet by a long way. The Renown was
met at Sydney Heads by aeroplanes, and
during the landing ceremony a couple of
them had a monopoly of the defenceless
Domain crowd. As the royal visitor’s launch
drew alongside one of the fliers attracted
startled attention by roaring down to within
a few feet of his head. The low flying over
the heads of the dense crowds that day was
not a purposeless piece of flashness, but an
affair of hard business. The wings of at least
one ’plane were advertisement hoardings.
In other parts of the world it is, of course,
an offence to risk people’s lives in this way,
and last week’s performance should bring
home one of the reasons why to the least
imaginative. The temptation to fly thus is as
great as the peril involved. People can skip
the advertisement pages of a newspaper and
they can disregard street-signs, but ,when a
sort of angel of death appears immediately
overhead it' insists on attention. What
occurred last week may, in the existing state
of the law, occur wherever any crowd
assembles in Australia; and whether the
advertising expert in the machine crashes
in the water, as one of the fliers did on this
occasion, or whether he does it on the heads
of the populace, is a pure matter of luck.
If the State Administrations are reluctant,
on a point of personal dignity, to give the
National Government facilities to legislate
generally in regard to aviation, they might
anyhow speed through a temporary measure
putting low flying over cities in the same
category as indiscriminate revolver-shooting.
It would help if they only listed it as “in-
sulting behavior” or “conduct calculated to
provoke a breach of the peace.” It is not
much to ask, seeing that the practice has the
same possibilities in the way of bloodshed
as (say) a general license to returned artil-
leryman to let off six-inch guns in their back
yards.
»
In Pursuit of a -Lost Province.
For 30 years Hobart has been very annoyed
with nature for piling a heap of mountain-
ous country between the capital and the
richest mineral portion of the Speck. Prac-
tically all west-coast supplies (including cab-
bages) come from, Melbourne via Burnie, a
journey of some 400 miles, while Hobart
merchants, only 90 miles away as the crow-
eater flies, hardly ~et a look in. Though a
steamer can get Sfrahan from Hobart in
about the same time as one can cross the
Straits from Port Phillip, the bar at Mac-
quarie Heads is still almost as dangerous
as it was a quarter-century ago, when Cap-
tain Teddy Miles was shaking things up
thereabouts for the Bradoon Ministry. The
bigger the boat the harder the bumps on
the bar, and the smaller the craft the more
furiously is she flung towards the stars by
the fiercely tumultuous bit of Antarctic that
rages along the rocky and wreck-strewn 100
miles of coast between the smiling lips of
D’Entrecasteaux Channel and the terrible
grin of Macquarie Heads. The overland
route, direct from Hobart, is 140 miles of
practical impassability, and is worse than
the sea-route for the reason that no ship or


T h i Farmers' & Settlers' Co-operative Insurance Co. of A’ 1511 ' 31 * 1
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the hand.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
Limited
craft or vehicle whatever can live through
it. This applies to some 80 miles of the
trip, from just beyond the Ouse River to
Mt. Lyell. There was formerly a sort of
pack-track passable for sure-footed mules,
but the traffic was never heavy nor frequent,
and the occasional lone prospector who
started along the track with a pack-horse
generally wished he hadn’t. A score of
years Ago Hobart made up its mind to shove
a railway through regardless of cost. With
grim determination it gazed at the estimated
cost (about half a million, or it may have
been £100,000), and decided that the pro-
ject was altogether too big for a mere Gov-
ernment to tackle, and it would be necessary
to call in a syndicate. The syndicate (or
the promoters of a syndicate) answered the
call, and offered to build the railway on
the gridiron plan—with something like
1,000,000 acres of timber and allegedly min-
eral-bearing country on the grid. The pro-
moters promptly rushed to London with their
concessions, but British and foreign inves-
tors seemed to think the concessionaires
were monopolising too much of the ground-
floor space and turned the venture down.
After the lapse of some years another syn-
dicate (the one in which Adelaide was in-
terested) took on the job, and actually
started work. But the wallabies and scrub
leeches were not unduly disturbed; they
withdrew a mile or two and grinned at the
interlopers from the shelter of the big scrub
or from the precipitous slopes of Mts. Field
and Humboldt. Then the syndicate for-
feited its £lO,OOO deposit to the Government
and the money was promptly squandered on
the usual non-paying projects. Various
later schemes for getting the railway to the
west coast were more or less seriously con-
sidered, but all faded away in hazy clouds
of general impotence. Now the present
State Government proposes building a mere
macadamised or corduroy road where for-
merly the dream-railway whistled merrily
through the vast wet wilderness. It is
reckoned £75,000 will make motor traffic
via the Lakes possible, and it is understood
that the Government is prepared to borrow
the money and commence the road almost
immediately. So, after 30 years of more
or less violent conversation in regard to Tas-
mania’s “lost province,” the Speck borrows
a pick and shovel from a retired neighbor’s
woodshed, dons its bowyangs, and prosaic-
ally trudges off to make a bit of road along
which it may drag the recaptured territory
back to Hobart by the scruff of its pants, so
to speak. And provided the weather and
the loan money hold out long enough, and
the macadam is laid on thick enough and
promptly enough to prevent the forest grow-
ing up through the formation and obliterat-
ing the water-tables, a motor trip from
Hobart to Mt. Lyell may some day be listed
among the Island’s numerous attractions for
tourists.
4,
Gems from the News Summary.
The news summaries in the Sydney papers
fitted things together in a tidy, significant
sort of way on a recent morning. These
were some of the items from a single issue:—
The number of unemployed in the State is in-
creasing, and 12,000 can easily be accounted for.
It is reported that there is a shortage in the
State of bricklayers, carpenters, boiler-makers,
moulders and woodworkers.
Australian serge is said to be practically unpro-
curable, and is quoted at 16s. 6d. a yard. Eng-
lish serge of the same quality is worth 355.
The Labor Council last night decided to place
the demand for a 44-hour week before Mr. Justice
Higgins.
The Trades Hall considers that the unemployed
must join a union before accepting a Government
relief job.
A city tailor said [to the Necessary Commodities
Commission] that he would use Australian serge
if he could get a supply, as it would cheapen the
si it. They were faced With a serious position, as
the stocks they now had on hand were being de-
pleted. It meant that a certain number of hands
would have to be paid off.
Unemployed marched to the Labor Bureau yester-
day, and were informed that work had been pro-
vided for nearly 400 men.
The number of unemployed is vast and in-
creasing, yet bricklayers, carpenters, boiler-
makers, moulders and woodworkers remain
scarce. So do weavers of woollen cloths, or
else the people who make the buildings and
machines that are necessary for making cloths,
or more probably the whole lot are scarce.
They have been scarce for years, because
every possible effort has been made by union
leaders and others to limit both the local
training and the importation of such people.
The 12,000 unftuployed can’t help, because
they are of the mostly-untrained or Govern-
ment-loan-job kind. Union bosses, by their
clamor for public works and their policy of
forcing up the wages of youths in dead-end
occupations as near as possible to the level
of skilled men, have aimed at multiplying
the dead-enders and limiting the output of
capable artisans. This was evidenced by the
demand that boys at Broken Hill should re-
ceive the same pay as grown men. The un-
employed will be reinforced when the tailors
begin discharging skilled artisans for lack
of local materials, and then the fact that
suits are costing twice what they might do
if local materials were available will be
accentuated. The bill for support of the
unemployed will be accentuated also. If
Australia had gone in after a large fashion
for having its own cotton mills, silk mills,
shipyards, works for making motor-cars,
motor spirit, pianos, sewing machines,
chemicals, etc., etc., the scarcity of skilled
workers in these lines would be noted also.
In the absence of the works the absence of
the workers isn’t observed. At this crisis
the Labor Council has taken the matter in
hand. And w’hat is its proposal? Merely to
cut one-twelfth off the working hours and off
the production and make the famine greater,
so that, by reducing the already scanty
supply of serge and such like, it will throw
more tailors and others out of work, and
thus, by making unemployment still greater,
add to the very trouble that it is out —or
says it is out —to remove.
«.
A suggestion of how completely the Kaiser
contrived to turn the world upside down
can be got from the fact that cargoes of
coal are being shipped from Newcastle
(N.S.W.) to Scandinavia, from the remote
south to the more remote north of the globe,
and that last week the little Swiss Republic
Avas in the Newcastle market trying to buy
supplies of the same fuel. What the stuff
would aost among the Alps this paper doesn’t
know; but for his gas-making material the
Scandinavian will pay from £9 10s. to £lO
per ton at his home port. Gorslow in
Britain, the destruction of many of the
French colliery equipments and the dis-
organisation of industry in Germany are
HIS PLEA FOR MERCY.
PRISONER: “As a staunch unionist this is what I want to say to the Court. When I
struck I didn't expect fatal results; and now I’m charged with murder I protest
against being victimised — that’s what I say.”
mainly responsible for an anomaly which,
while it puts a few pounds into the hands of
Australian owners, miners and agents, offers
striking proof of the utterly distorted con-
ditions of industry in Europe hnd calls to
us once more to get to work for. ourselves.
Dependence on the “cheap” markets of
Europe is simple madness.
-*
The first right that every free householder
or country-holder possesses is the right to
say, without even giving reasons if he
doesn’t want to give them, whether people
not of his family (domestic family or
national family) shall squat on his premises.
If a German or any other person comes into
the premises of, say, N. S. Wales Minister
Dooley it isn’t necessary for Mr. Dooley
to prove anything against the other person’s
character, by an expensive lawsuit, in order
to get rid of him. The plea that the Gov-
ernment of All the People hasn’t the right
to send out an alien whom it considers
objectionable implies, logically, that it hasn’t
the right to keep such a person out if he
wants to come in, and just as logically that
it has no right to refuse him a vote when
he is in, or to let him run the country if he
takes the trouble to be numerous enough.
The pro-jEKGEBS are a strangely illogical
lot, too. If a stranger drifts into one of
their Labor conventions, his deportation into
the street follows without any legal inquiry
into his character or past life.
Warren C. Harding —a sort of brown star
in the political firmament —has secured the
Republican nomination for U.S. President,
the Republicans being the dominant party in
Congress and the one which has no use for
Wilson. He secured the nomination in the
usual U.S. way—through being almost the
only applicant who hadn’t a dog’s chance.
In Uncle Sam’s land each party creates a
convention, and this body proceeds amid
scenes of unparalleled disorder to choose the
official bearer of its banner. He must have an
absolute majority. As a rule, at the first
ballot Smith, the sure winner, is far ahead,
but not far enough; Brown is close behind ;
Jenkins far behind, with JorKins running
him neck and neck, and Briggs is out of
sight in the rear. Eight ballots or more
leave them almost in the same order* Smith
gaining and within an ace of winning, but
still not doing it. Nobody will give him
another vote, and as a deadlock threatens
a compromise sets in, and Briggs is chosen
by an overwhelming majority. The import-
ance of being Briggs has been frequently
demonstrated. The possible probable Pre-
sident has all the signs and earmarks. His
front name isn’t an ordinary Christian name,
and his middle name is an initial. He is a
Baptist and has been a State Governor and
is now a Senator. And each of six portraits
shows that he hasn’t the least resemblance to
jiimself if he is at all like any of the other
five.
♦
“Ex-Missionary” on the Church in politics:
Big movements have a habit of falling into strange
hands and being diverted, just as a Prohibition
league may imperceptibly become a brewer. When
Australia’s first Labor Ministry climbed into power
it believed in reduction (or abolition) of borrow-
ing, in a sinking fund, in co-operation and arbitra-
tion. Also it was patriotically Australian and was
strong for compulsory military training. Now the
people who shout in the front Labor rank are furious
borrowers, anti-defence men, strikers and opponents
of co-operative enterprise. In other words, the
brewers and distillers have captured the Prohibition
movement and declared the Rechabites “black.”
Something of the sort begins to be foreshadowed
in Ireland. The republican movement was, and is,
ably supported within the Church. At the same
time the Church begins to feel the first stirrings of
doubt. People begin to emerge who preach the
Russian form of republic and the national ownership
of property. Russia practically lost its religious outfit
in the Revolution. The Church’s goods, buildings
and lands —especially its lands —became mixed up
in the general confiscation and nationalisation of
property. Its bishops, priests and monks were, save
in rare cases, included in the disqualification of all
except “workers, soldiers and peasants,” and where
compulsory labor came into vogue it roped in a lot
of them with the rest.
Something very similar has happened in other
republics. Republican Portugal confiscated the con-
vents and monasteries and stopped the Church’s
salary. Mexico refuses to allow the Church even
to own the land its religious institutions stand upon.
Paraguay, which was once a Jesuit estate as purely
spiritual as Papal Rome itself, doesn’t even recognise
the Church marriage service as binding.
The Irish Church had vast influence as a bulwark
against the alien episcopal establishment, the alien
landlords and the alien rulers. The first is gone.
The second are going. If the third go also and
with them the bulk of the alien population, the local
priesthood will probably, after a time, get a sort of
honorable discharge as a veteran whose campaign
is finished. It was just 49 years between the day
when the priest Miguel Hidalgo raised the banner
of Mexican independence and the day when Benito
Juarez announced the confiscation of every square
foot of property the Church possessed. But some
things move slowly in Mexico. Others move rather
suddenly.
i-*.
Prtjssianism held a monopoly of Frightful-
ness for quite a long time after the war
started, and all that long time it was win-
ning. In the same way direct action will
continue to be victorious until similar Fright-
fulness is brought to hear against it. Union
of the law-abiders versus union of the law-
breakers, of the fair-minded v. the tyrannical,
of the simply reasonable v. the madly rebel-
lious—the time and the circumstances demand
this. On the one side is the eternal threat to
paralyse industry unless demands for higher
wages in certain essential industries are
conceded —the policy of establishing an aris-
tocracy of essential industrialists, with the
coal-miners as king, who will keep on
squeezing the present social system until the
poor thing is squeezed to death. On the
other hand we have the community always
grumbling harmlessly at the existing strike
or waiting good humoredly for the next
strike to happen, and never preparing to
meet the direct actionists when they
resort to their old tactics. Talking of the
last Melbourne strike, in which it was aimed
to deprive the community of gas, electric
light, tram conveniences and most other
things that make life worth living, E.
Russell, secretary of the Agricultural Im-
plement Makers’ Union, said :
Workers had been promoted to the staffs, and
that was why there was still some light available.
In the previous gas strike college boys had gone
to work as volunteers, not because they loved the
company, but because they hated the worker. If the
labor movement had been properly organised they
would never have gone in alive.
Apparently it hasn’t occurred to this gentle
reformer who talks ,so lightly of child-
murder that if the community were organ-
ised there would be precious little tyrannical
direct action in the future. If the State
adopted its enemy’s methods a few times
there would be a cry of “Kamerad” and a
suggestion that arbitration might be a good
thing after all.
“William Brooks, President of the
Federal Capital League,” managed to fill a
column about Canberra in the Sydney papers
on June 17 withjout once stating
That Canberra is the best capital site in the
interests of Australia, or the best site in Australia,
or the best site in N. S. Wales, or the tenth-best
site in N. S. Wales.
That Canberra is part of the Constitutional bar-
gain, or is even mentioned in the Constitution.
That the fixing of the capital in N. S. Wales, but
not necessarily at Canberra, was arrived at by any
better means than the unclean swindle by which (1)
N. S. Wales politicians first bargained, on their own
initiative, for an affirmative vote of at least 50,000
and a majority to ensure the acceptance of the Con-
stitution; (2) then broke faith and altered the
minimum to 80,000; and (3) having thus nullified
the State’s acceptance according to the original
bargain of the original Constitution, huckstered for
the possession of the capital as their price.
That he would think himself an honest man if he
conducted his own business on these lines.
Of these the first matter is the most impor-
tant. Any number of people are willing to
discourse till the cows come home about the
“moral obligation” of Canberra, but the one
who will say, and give reasons for saying,
that the Canberra site was chosen with a
single eye to the interests of Australia is
as hard to find as Moses’s grave.
The first official notice regarding the pro-
clamation. of the Navigation Act set out that
the coasting-trade and other sections were
to come into force on Monday, March 2.
Some genius with an almanac pointed out
that March 2 was a Tuesday, so the Gov.-
Gen. issued a notification setting out that
March 2 fell on Tuesday, and that was to
be read as the date. After that it was dis-
covered that the proclamation was abortive,
and now the Act is to be proclaimed again
after an amending Act has been passed. But
the Senate made up its mind that there
should be no mistake this time. It dealt
with the matter the day after Jowett’s
dinner, and spent a quarter of an hour on it.


Empire Defence and the
Mr. Amery, Under-Secretary for the
Colonies, in giving an outline of the naval
defence proposals for the Empire, stated that
it had been decided to adopt “a new system,
consisting of a defensive chain, of which
each link will he primarily equipped to sus-
tain its own defence
Naval Defence is, to Australia, of grave importance, and calls
for preparedness with ships of war, guns and munitions.
Australia cannot risk her safety by dependence upon others
to supply her needs in these directions. The facilities for
their manufacture in case of necessity must be established
here. This makes essential the development, on a sound
basis, of the
Australian Iron
and Steel Industry
apart altogether from the economic aspect of the question.
[2
POLITICAL
POINTS
London Times put the first spike into the
tyre of Theodore’s chariot by a remark that
it wasn’t merely a question of Queensland s
ability to pay, however serious that might
be, but of its intention to pay. And can
that plain doubt whether we have not be-
come a nation of rooks and cheats be won-
deredJif? There has hardly been a day in
the Last year or two when some politician
didn’t talk airily about repudiating some-
thing. During the orgy of war loans, peace
loans and paper money Australia has lost
its sense of proportion, and its perspective
has been as badly mislaid as a Chinese
artist’s.
The Seamen’s Union, run by the imported
Thomas Walsh, having given due notice of
its intention, sought an interview with
Joseph Cook the other day. Its purpose
was to demand, with threats, that -seamen
and firemen who didn’t go to the war should
receive the war gratuity just the same.
Joseph Cook simply said he wasn’t at home.
So the ultimatum has been issued, to go on
with, that when there is another war the
unionists won’t fight, but will allow them-
selves and their children and other people
and other "people’s children to be slain with
impunity. They will presumably sit down
in long rows and have their throats cut in
their cold rage because they failed to fasten
a huge bill on Posterity so that Posterity’s
old man might be paid for the campaigns he
never attended, and it will be a gory, mussy,
ridiculous spectacle. Probably there is
nothing more absurd than some thousands of
men being beheaded by their own consent
over an obscure financial transaction which
may be years old by that time. Curiously
enough nothing has been said so far about
a war bonus to passengers. Yet multitudes
of them went to sea of necessity, on business
that had to be attended to if the country’s
affairs were to be kept going, .so very much
of Australia being only accessible by sea.
In the dreary procession of Victoria’s
perishing country towns there is one excep-
tion —Clunes, 97 miles from Melbourne. It
lost half its population between 1891 and
1911 and was busy losing the other half.
Now it is looking up. Houses that had
been carried away on j inkers are coming
back, and new ones are being built. There
are young people in the town which used to
be left to old gaffers and gammers, with a
few children who intended fleeing ~to Mel-
bourne as soon as they quitted school. It
isn’t that a patch of gold has been found
again. It isn’t that Millen’s department has
been settling returned and mortgaged sol-
THE INGRATITUDE OF WILLIE
WATT.
“And would you like to make any comment
on Mr. Watt’s affair now, Mr. Hughes?”
“Only this, only this —I am astounded,
especially after I’ve let him have all
my own way as I have done.”
diers on the land. A year ago a company
started cotton-knitting mills at Cliines —the
only ones in Australia —and solid drought-
proof wages began to be paid. Of couise
“influence” will be used, probably through,,
the Railwav Department, to shift the indus-
try to Melbourne, but at present it sticks to
Clunes.
No-license will, for the first time, be an
issue at the Queensland local-option poll, to
be held on October 30, and the prohibition-
ists have srot the Anglican Synod on then-
side Archbishop Donaldson is an enthusiast
for "cold tea. and, at his instance, the Synod
decided to work for the cause of the empty
pintpot, the one dissentient being a doctor.
In England and some other countries the
church owns considerable hotel property, and
o-ood Mr. Ticklebrain is rather aggrieved at
what he regards as a desertion of his cause.
Even so, there is small prospect of Queens-
land’s going dry. In 1917 reduction was
carried in four local-option areas —four out
of 55 —and two others declared for more
pubs. The rest said they were satisfied with
things as they were.
“The Storey Government has commuted
the murderer Worrell’s sentence to imprison-
ment for life,” says the daily paper; and
adds: “The Government has abolished
capital punishment.”
The scandalously underpaid Tasmanian
school-teachers whose woes were pictured in
a recent Bulletin, and who in desperation
started to take a ballot as to whether they
should go out on .strike or not, have been
granted what amounts to a nearly 50 p.c.
average rise—£l7s,ooo is to be voted for
their pay this year as against £120,000 last
year. This is the position. Either now the
Government has been bullied and black-
mailed into paying money which it doesn’t
think it ought t 6 pay, and in that case it
shouldn’t pay it even if it has to appeal to
Parliament and people; oy it is paying no
more than it should pay, in which case it
has been taking advantage of what it
thought was the helplessness of a big body
of men and women to sweat them unmerci-
fully. The Lee Government can take its
choice. It ought to be ashamed of itself
either way.
Last week N. S. Wales Premier told Syd-
ney the glad news that money was coming
in'freely, and the £2,000,000 farmers’ relief
loan was assured. Yet not all the £2.000.000,
nor £20,000,000 for that matter, could buy
the city a pleasant gleam of electric heat
to warm its cold feet against. Because it
hadn’t learned to manufacture apparatus for
itself it was helpless in the midst of bor-
rowed riches —just as helpless as a drown-
ing millionaire. Speaking again of his loan,
the maladroit Storey said :
We realise to the full that it is only by this means
that the country will recover.
Drought will come again, for Australia is
built that way. And if the relief loan fails
to float them, apparently agriculture won’t
recover. Nothing nastier was ever said
about the wonderful policy of “putting
people on the land.”
The Barwell (S.A.I Government got a
lift when H. S. Hudd won Alexandra for
the Libs, with a greater majority than the
late Archibald Peake ever had. Hudd de-
feated Laborite Grealy by nearly two to one,
and Searcy, the Nationalist, was beaten out
of sight. Barwell is still without an absolute
majority in the Assembly, but after Alexan-
dra he has hopes.
There are 34,634 names of the Federal
electoral roll for Ballarat
and 18,430 belong to the
sex that brushes its hair
towards the back. The
disparity used to be the
other way about, but
the young men started to
leave when Melbourne
began mopping up the
Ballarat foundries, _ and
there has been a migra-
tion of' the same sort
ever since. And the
migratory youth generally
finds a new girl in other
parts. There are signs
of revolt against the cen-
tralisation which has
cramped Ballarat’s des-
tiny, but fdr the present
it is a place of faded
spinsters, decayed indus-
tries and superfluous pubs.
A craving to harness elephants to peram-
bulators afflicts some Labor Governments.
It was one of them that garnished Darwin
with a bureaucracy big enough for Assyria
at its prime, when all the Territory wanted
was the shortest possible railway connection.
On the same lines Minister for Motherhood
McGirr (N.S.W.), who has a child-pension
scheme in view, proposes to appoint “a
committee of statistical experts for ascer-
taining the number of children in the State
and so on, and experts in child ivelfare irre-
spective of party.” It is supposed that chil-
dren aged between two and 14 are to be pen-
sionable barring the first two in the family—
or possibly all children under 14. On the
first basis, if the arrangement dates from the
present month, every child born between June,
1906, and June, 1918, is a possible pensioner.
The number born is known. The number that
died is on record. The number that was
the third (or upwards) child in the family
is down in black and white. The number
of possible candidates gained by immigration
or lost by emigration is much the same pro-
portion to the total comings and goings as
the proportion among the population that
stayed. Deciding the number is a clerk’s job,
not one for a lumbering Commission of geni-
uses with heavy brain artillery. There may
be. an odd baby here and there to spoil the
calculation, but there are always odd babies.
Some of them grow up to be odd politicians.
As for collecting experts in child welfare
to decide whether a baby is better with an
income or without it, surely any other Gamp
could answer that question. Finally, the
Commission is to consider “so on.” Many
quaint things have happened in Australia,
but the appointment of an elaborate Com-
mission to decide upon “so on” is more than
fussy-r-it is buzzy.
N. S. Wales’s Motherhood Minister McGirr
has, like his colleagues, a fine imperial con-
tempt for the mere
representatives of
the people. He an-
nounces that a pen-
sion of 7s. 6d. per
week is to be paid
to all children in a
family after the
first two, and
meanwhile his
Government “has
set aside a sum of
money t o help
children and ex-
pectant mothers
during the winter.”
Presumably th i s
means that, after a
fashion, they have
prigged a sum.
They certainly
didn’t ask Parlia-
ment for it, or
even inform Par-
liament about it,
though when they
met that disre-
garded institution
they knew winter
was coming and
they must have
known about the*
pension idea, which
has been in the air
for a long while
and has even been
before the N. g.
Wales Legislature.
Of course this Bis-
marckian way of
doing things is
more impressive
than the Parlia-
mentary way, but
even an, elected worm may turn some day
and make a rich Minister’s private estate
responsible for unauthorised expenditures.
The Age adjures the State futilities to
“stand firm” against reduction of the capita-
tion grant and the construction of, the north-
south railway, “a proposal to spend a score
or so of millions to buy the political support
of South Australia.’’ So if somebody under-
takes to pay the Symes a couple ot pounds
for the Age for a year and the Symes duly
send the Age along, somebody is apparently
buite justified in then claiming that it was
merely a “proposal,” and that the _ Symes
haye no right to the money. It is time the
Age’s commercial and editorial departments
had a conference on this matter.
The Argus advises Hughes that it will be
necessary to act circumspectly when the
tariff is under discussion. “Many of the
high duties will be agreed to only with the
aid of the Labor Opposition. ... .and it will
be humiliating if the Government succeeds
in its tariff proposals vtrith. the assistance of
a party the people rejected at the polls.’
Could the essential lunacy of party govern-
ment be better expressed? Because the
people rejected Labor candidates at the poll,
it would be humiliating to carry certain
measures with the help of those candidates
the people did not reject,
Told to the N. S. Wales Board of Trade
by a farmer of the coastal district, the most
favored climatically in the State: —
The great grievance of the dairy-farmer is that,
while a living wage is fixed for the employee, dairy-
ing will not return that wage to the farmer himself.
In my district I do not think one farmer is getting
the ruling living wage to-day.
And every Freetrade rag in the Common-
wealth, with a baleful eye on the tariff, is
busy saying that this is no country for fac-
tories ; that farms are the things to make
us jolly and fat.
It is not certain that the Vic. Assembly
when it meets on June BO will settle down
to work. Lawson will try on a programme
long enough to last four months, but with
so many Labor and Farmers’ Union can-
didates selected members will Lave one eye
on the House and the other on the con-
stituencies. Early in September the appeal
to the people (with the accompanying local
option poll) may come. The state of the
House now is: Radicals. Liberals, Conser-
vatives, Tories and Anything-but-Labor
(more or less supporting the Government),
37; Labor, 18; Independent Labor (McLaeh-
ian and Smith), 2; Farmers’ Union,
7; Speaker (Mackey), 1; total, bo.
To distinguish them from the Farmers
Union seven the other truly-rural M s.lj.a.
have decided to call their combination tie
Country Liberal party, and to go baldheaded
for decentralisation, including establishment
of secondary industries in rural towns.
Peaciock is behind this new movement, im-
pelled thereto by Clunes, which has shpwn
what can be done in that way.
The Labor aldermen in Sydney’s remark-
able council were saved last week from a
prosecution under the Returned
Employment Act. On June 1, in defiance of
that measure, they awarded an engineering
job in the lighting department to an
employee who didn’t go to the war, over the
head of an pm ployed who did. What made
the thing worse was that the Digger, a
A WASHOUT.
“The Times states that the British Labor delegates
report ignores the responsibility of Bolshevism for
Russia’s condition, and appeals for soap. —Cable.
Breathless Messenger (to Bolshevik Gen-
erals): “ Flyslcy! The cause is lost!
The Army demands soap!"
thoroughly-qualified man, had IT months
longer service, and was recommended by. the
general manager of the department. More-
over, the council undertook in 1914 to pro-
tect an employee’s rights (including senior-
ity) if he went to the Front. By 13 votes
to 12 the council last week reversed its
decision, and the Digger gets the job which
he should have had in the first place. The
odd vote—and let it be counted to him for
righteousness —was R. D.. Meagher s. It
also modifies the unpleasant impression
created by the discovery that sullen oppo-
nents of the Digger and his rights are often
named Burke and Doyle when they aren t
called McGuiness and Ryan.
This is the difference among N. S. Wales
parish politicians between the Federal
capital and the Darwin-Port Augusta rail-
way :
The Canberra capital must be built because it is
an obligation due to N. S. Wales under the Con-
stitution. (Canberra isn’t in the Constitution, but
that doesn’t matter.) Whether it is the best site or
even a fairly good site isn’t mentioned. The “obliga-
tion” must be fulfilled even if the heavens fall and
Sheol freezes hard, else the nation’s soul is lost.
The specific obligation to S. Aus. to “purchase
the Port Augusta-Oodnadatta railway and , complete
the construction of the transcontinental railway from
Port Darwin to Port Augusta” (linibbs’s Official
Year Book for 1917, page 1042, is a handy
authority), in consideration of which S. Aus. gave
up 523,620 square miles of country, is never men-
tioned. It is brushed aside as if it had never
existed. It doesn’t matter if the heavens do fall and
Sheol does freeze and the nation’s soul is lost.
The Millions Club and similar institutions
are invited to explain why the pangs ot
conscience work only one way.
N. S. Wales Labor Conference supports
preference to unionists, but denounces pre-
ference to returned Diggers as “iniquitous
and impracticable.” In other words, the prin-
ciple is splendid when it applies to us, but
when the other fellow gets the benefit it is
absolutely rotten.
The Government falters
At visions of halters
Conducting “condemned”
From the quick to the dead,
So stiffs mustn’t dangle;
Our statesmen, who wrangle,
At leisure will strangle
Their country instead.


Billy, popular a.S ever , arrived
to take Kis part.
Thct Renown comes lo her
(A most impressive Sigjhl^
Small section of The
Harbor display.
a
The influence of
the Prince .
Seen erf Randwich
race course
on Saturday.
___ v
The Stampede for look.
Enthusiast: " THE PRINCE !!.Did he come down this vf&y ?.’ u
Thtz John" .' l< y\lo , You’ve, passed him; tk&ts his C&r up tixzre/
SYDNEY’S TURN


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
Registered
6HAS.
Brand.
Producers of Lead in the following forms _ , t j s
Refined Lead, Corroding Lead, Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated),
Super-refined Lead, Chemical Lead.
Also of —
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated). Spelter,
and the following Alloys and Metallic Products
Antimonial Lead, Linotype Metal, Litharge dndustnal and Assay),
Bearing Metals. Leaded Zinc Pigments, Blue Powder
Purchasers on a Specially Favorable Tariff of S.lver-Leacl Slags, etc.
containing Silver and Lead, Lead Drosses. Zinc Drosses.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS STREET,
H. L. SHACIvELL. Manager. T ;J& wr'o-
LONDON OFFICE: PINNERS HALL. ALSTIN 1-RIAIiS. E.C. ~—
A. .T. SMITH, London Manager and Sedrttary.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNET
R. N. KIRK (Agent).
ADELAIDE
SMELTING WORKS. PORT EIRIE. S.A.
COKE WORKS. BELLAMBI. N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
.
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ELECTRIC STEEL
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
vi'o mnitp i Feature of Specially Heat-treated Steel Castings for Ore
Crusher anS Rock Breaker Parts. Battery and Mill Liners. Stamper
Shoes and Dies, Cams, Heads, Tappets, Ring Dies. Tramwaj T 5
Toughened Steel Truck Wheels. We can supply any quality hitlieito
OF MANUFACTURE UNDER MODERN SCIENTIFIC CONTROL.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
Telegraphic Address: “Electric Steel.” ALEXANDRIA. SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
it. In 1913, the first year the accounts for
the two departments were shown separately,
almost 24 p.c. of the total income of the
Ordinary branch was absorbed by expenses.
The bite from the past year’s income was
18 p.c., and owing to heavier taxes and other
troubles that was slightly more than for the
previous two years. Extracting the Acci-
dent branch figures and the bonuses paid to
shareholders, actual costs in the Ordinary
department amounted to £4533. Assuming
that the old business cost 7 p.c. of renewal
premiums and that the balance of the year’s
expenses represented the cost of writing new
business, then the £4976 of premiums col-
lected on the 1002 policies assuring £201.581'
written during the year cost £3314, or about
66 p.c. That is a very moderate new-busi-
ness cost compared with the figures of many
other offices. But it has been in the Indus-
trial department that the management has
effected the greater reduction of exes. Six
years ago £60 10s. of each £100 of income
in this branch went in expenses; two years
ago they had been got down to £49 p.c.,
and last year the figures had been further
reduced to £47 2s. p.c.
s ■
For the first time shareholders have
received a div. from the Ordinary branch;
they got a little £110, though that did not
go far on a paid capital of £21,000. But
they also got £100 from the Accident branch,
together making 1 p.c., which with the
usual 5 p.c. from the industrial, made their
return for the year 6 p.c. In the Ordinary
department the management is under an
obligation to improve bonuses for policy-
holders before it can fatten Shareholders,
for in that branch the Provident is issuing
policies guaranteeing at least 90 p.c. of pro-
fits to policy-holders. The Accident and
Industrial departments are, of course, on a
different footing, for in both a definite con-
tract is made and any profits become the
property of the people who back those con-
tracts.
Since The Bulletin last reviewed the
affairs of the Provident another actuarial
investigation lias been made. At Dec. 31,
1918, the co. had £67,445 of funds in the
Ordinary branch, and the actuary, estimat-
ing liabilities under policies on the assump-
tion that funds would in future earn only
,‘D p.c., declared that there was £5504 more
in hand than he considered necessary. So
he recommended the distribution of £4.);>4 to
be applied to provide bonuses to policy-
holders, leaving £550 for shareholders. In
the Industrial department the actuary
(again assuming interest at 34 p.c.) un-
earthed a surplus of £513 after divs. had
been paid. Thus, from the point of view of
security, on the word of its actuary the
Provident was in a satisfactory position. In-
cidentally, the above valuations did not take
into account the £21,000 of shareholders’
capital, which provides further protection
for policy-holders, as does also. ,to some ex-
tent. the £45,000 of uncalled capital. The
co., having got through war and flu’ troubles
successfully, should, with ordinary luck,
make good progress before the next valua-
tion is due. The management is building
up a solid connection, and its new business
is not being written at prohibitive cost as
is .so usual among the smaller cos. In addi-
tion, the Provident nowadays has improved
interest returns to help it; in the Ordinary
department interest earnings on average
funds last year worked out at 5.3 p.c., and
in the Industrial department, 4 7 p.c. Funds
are well invested, over 90 p.c. of those of the
Ordinary department being represented by
Government securities.
* * * *
H McKenzie, Ltd., timber merchants,
etc. (Sydney) ToR ,
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Sept.,.’12. .14,409 10 p.c.= 4,899 9,510 61,924
Premiums on new shares . . 2a2 62,1(6
Mar., ’13..13,577 10 p c.= 6,500 7,0(7 69,-o3
Sept, ’13.. 11,369 N; 1L369 80,62-
Mar., ’14.. 6,594 Nil, 6,594 8,.216
c pn f >14 7.737 ll *,(3/ 94,9o3
Mat ’is:: 9>-6 Nil ' 9.026 103.979
a P „t ’15.. 4.744 Nil 4,(44 108,(2.4
Mar.’,’ ’16. . 9,044 10 p.r.= 6,500 2,544 111.267
Written off, £543 .. •• 110,7^4
Sent ’16 6,974 10 p.C.=: -6,500 4(4 111,193
Mar ’17 4,42,7 10 „ „ 6,500 - 109,12a
Sont’ ’17.. 9 866 20 ,, „ 13,000 105,991
Mar.’ ’18. .lo’,398 20 „ „ 13,000 — 103,389
Sept ’ ’18. .14,188 20 ,, ,, 13,000 1,188 104,o77
Mar., ’19. .15,280 10 „ ,, 6,500 8.78° 1 1®.357
Transferred to capital, £52,000 . . 61,357
Sent. ’19..14,212 10 p.c.= 9,100 5,112 66,469
Bonus shares io employees, £2698.. 63,771
Mar., ’20..29,196 20 p.c.= 18,469 10,727 74,498
The directors give the half’s profits as
£25,253, but the foregoing table has included
£3943 talked to a reserve for depreciation,
which in- this instance is probably merely a
bandy bag into which trifles are stuffed for
future Use. The co. thus shows net earn-
ings for the six months equal to over 31 p.c.
p a. of present capital, or practically as much
as has been earned in any previous 12
months. Disregarding the £52.000 of bonus
shares issued last year, the past half’s profits
gave a 44 p.c. p.a. return on capital actually
contributed by shareholders. A management
which will dangle profits on that scale before
the eyes of a brand-new Labor Ministry is,
The Bank of Australasia
Writ-
Profits. Dividends. ten Off. Reserves.
Oct. £ £ £ £
1906.. 291,307 13 p.c. = 208,000 24,000 1,326,862
1907 416 213 14 224,000 33,000 1,480,070
1908 399 720 14 ~ 224,000 35,000 1,626,795
1909!: 351 677 14 ” ” 224,000 27,000 1,727,472
1910.. 392 253 16 ~ „ 256,000 38,000 1,825,725
1911 404 344 L 164 ~ 264,000 40,000 1,926,074
19V>" 17 ” 972,000 40,000 2,038,548
Premiums on new shares, £600,000
1913.. 427,621 17 p.c. = 40,000 2,720,169
1914.. 444;406 17 „ „ |4ff,ooo 2,824,575
1915.. -410,521 17 „„ 340,000 2,895.096
1916.. 407,5,6.8 17 „ „ 340,000 2,962,604
1917.. 405,646 17 „ „ 34,0,000 - 3,028,340
1918.. 438,7.45 17 „ „ 34.0,000 3,427,0;>0
1919.. 460 768 18 „ „ 360,000 3,227,823
Premiums on new shares, £875,000 4,102,823
Reserves capitalised, £1,000,000 3,102,8^3
When shareholders met in London at; the
end of March they were introduced to several
innovations. To begin witu, t° r t“ e )us * :
time the accounts presented covered a period
of a full year. For purposes of comparison
the table above has in consequence been ie-
modellod to show results for terms of 1-
months ending October each year. But by
far the most important happening was the
directors’ proposal to capitalise a million ot
reserves, this being the first memorable occa-
sion on which an Australian bank .manage-
ment has sought permission to issue bonus
shares. The chairman declared that the
Board had been driven to make this move
because of “ignorant and mischievous com-
ment in Australia, it being stated that they
were making 18 p.c. out of the country.
Obviously dividends at the rate of 18 p.c.
are liable to invite criticism ; but the direc-
tors have only themselves to blame, for they
cannot expect the public to understand that,
after all, the 18 p.c. which the Board de-
clares is not worth anything like that to
shareholders. Any misunderstandings have
been due to the methods adopted for raising
fresh Capital. Seven years ago, for instance,
when the last lot of new funds was got m,
shareholders were invited to pay no less than
£IOO for each share paid to £4O, so the
18 p.c. div. on that lot was equal to only
about 74 p.c. In conjunction with the
present capitalisation of reserves a further
half-million of new capital is also being
got in, and this issue is producing £8 i 5,000
of share premiums, £llO being asked for
each share paid to £4O. Including the new
issue, during the past seven years share-
holders have in this way contributed
£1,475,000 directly to reserves, so the effect
of the capitalisation of a million ,is really
to provide shareholders with scrip for some
of the cash they actually paid into the co.
The transfer of reserves will give them two
extra shares paid to £4O for every five held
after the new issue has been paid up, and
on the lot the directors hope to pay divs.
at the rate of 13 pm. p.a., which will give
shareholders practically the same return as
the present 18 p.c.
After the introduction of fresh funds and
transfer of reserves the ’Asia’s paid capital
will amount to 34 millions and reserves will
still exceed three millions. A 13 p.c. div. on
34 millions will call for £455,000 each year,
and, as the table shows, the past year’s pro-
fits were capable of meeting this div. with-
out the assistance of the earnings of the
£1,375,000 of additional shareholders’ funds
to be invested. Disclosed net profits last
year showed a big increase over those for
the war-period, when the management was,
no doubt, buttressing its weaker points.
Moreover, the growth is in spite of heavier
expenses and greatly-increased taxat ion :
Oct, Gross Profits. Expenses. Taxes.
1913 .. £788,606 £299,818 £61,167
1914 .. 836,549 307,623 74,520
1915 .. 846,202 317,290 118,391
1916 . 948,589 348,402 192,620
1917 952,206 349,751 196,810
1918 1,020,966 361,052 221,168
1919 . . 1,065,927 391,917 213,242
Throughout the war-period and since the
’Asia’s gross earnings have continued to ex-
pand steadily; those for the past year were
35 p.c. greater than the figures of only six
years previously. The fact is, of course,
that, though the Commonwealth was em-
broiled in the great trouble with Wilhelm, it
experienced comparatively little inconveni-
ence so far as trade and internal affairs
were concerned. Certainly there were delays
in the marketing of produce, but Govern-
ment pooling arrangements and the higher
prices realised couiiteracted the troubles re-
suiting from isolation. The Government
support of produce pools was, on the other
hand, an absolute godsend to the banks,
which were almost wholly relieved of the
obligation to directly finance primary pro-
ducers while finding their markets. _ Mean-
time since the Commonwealth met its i\ax
costs’ almost wholly with promises to pay
at some future date, the banks have been
further helped by having been given vast
quantities of paper which, for the most part,
they have been able to make use of. I hough
the war terminated over 18 months ago, the
flow of paper still continues; for the nine
months to March 31 last 49| millions were
spent by the Federal Treasury on account
of “war services,” and of that no less than
361 millions were charged against loans.
Now we have the war g'ratuity to fuither
swell the millions of paper flooding through
the money channels of the Commonwealth.
How the banks have been helped by Govern-
ment paper is, to some extent, visible in the
growth of deposits since the war. At March
81, 1914, Australian and Maoriland banks
held almost 183 millions of deposits; at
March 31 last the figures had swollen to
over 298 millions. Under these circum-
stances it is not surprising to find that the
Bank of Australasia towards the end of last
year was caretaking 27 p.c. more of ' the
public’s than five years previously.
This comparison shows how the balance-
sheet figures have expanded : —.
LIABILITIES.
0ct.,’14. Oct.,’lß. 0ct.,’19.
Notes .. •• £202,995 £701,710 £424,100
Bills etc . . 2,890,301 3,028,424 3,670,254
Deposits •• 19,108,792 .21,903,754 24,351,904-
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 7,146,583 8,448,724 10,159,925
Advances . . 20,041,791 23,123,421 23,677,840
Premises '.. .. 14,288 18,799 26,316
Seeing that the management held over 6j
millions more of the public’s money and
£423,000 more of shareholders’ funds in
October last than it did five years previously,
the expansion of 'gross earnings is not at
all surprising.
At the balance the ’Asia presented very
great' strength from the point of view of its
creditors. Altogether it held £25,446,258 ol
the public’s money and showed assets of a
book value of £33,864.081 to meet those
liabilities. Over 10 millions of these assets
were liquid or were invested in Government
securities. To meet the £18.286,333 of liu-
bilities not covered by liquid assets the man-
agement had the £23,677.840 of advances,
written down so hard and so well cleansed
that the directors “did not think there was
a single one that need cause them any
worry,” and also the premises with a book
value of £26.315. This latter entry. _of
course, represents only a very small fraction
of the actual value of the ’Asia’s premises
throughout the Commonwealth and Maori-
land, for they have been written down hard
over very many years. The bank is now
even stronger than disclosed by the, figures
above, for since the balance share-
holders have contributed a further £1,375,000
by way of capital and premiums, taking total
funds to well oyer 61 millions. This means
that, on the basis of liabilities as at October
last, for every £ of its own funds the ’Asia’s
management was holding under £4 10s. of
the public’s money, an unusually small pro-
portion.
Provident Life Assurance Cos., of
Dunedin (M.L.), which is also doing busi-
ness in the Commonwealth
Ordinary and Accident Branch.
Added to Assur-
Ex- Assurance ance
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. Fund. Fund.
1913.. £9,886 £1,867 £2,365 £5,652 £25,150
1914.. 12,127 3,043 2,533 6,551 31,701
1915.. 14,136 4,230 2.853 7,053 38,754
1916.. 16,4-55 4,731 3,014 8,710 47,464
1917.. 20,003 5,187 3.268 11,548 59,012
1918.. 25,564 11,494 4,484 9,586 68,598
1919.. 28,985 6,238 5,214 17,533 86,131
Industrial Branch.
Dividends to
Shareholders
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. (5 p.c.). Funds.
1913. . £41,502 £10,453 £25,123 £673 £50,890
1914.. 46,302 10,287 26,513 856 59,536
1915.. 48,625 8,774 24,573 1050 73,764
1916 . 52,605 13,115 25,943 1050 86,261
1917 61 439 12,793 30,088 1050 103,769
1918.. 68,701 17,793 33,142 1050 120,485
1919.. 75,200 22,837 35,457 1050 136,341
This Maoriland life co. took over the Provi-
dent and Industrial Insurance Cos. 16 years
ago. but it had no Ordinary branch until
1908. Then for a few years the manage-
ment did not separate the business of the
two departments; hence the comparisons go
back only to 1913. But the income of the
Ordinary branch alone is now practically
equal to the income from all sources 10
years ago. Here is a comparison of the
combined figures to show the expansion of
the concern: —
Total Expenses
Income. Claims, (inc. divs.).
1899 .. .. £9.177 £2,835 £6,462
1904 . . . 15,289 3,434 8,449
1909 . . . . 30,785 8,369 20,650
1914 .. .. 58,429 13,330 29,902
1919 .. .. 104,185 29,075 41,721
Last year the Provident thus got its in-
come into hundreds of thousands for the
first time. Net premium income alone has
increased from £53.730 in 1914 to £92.i93
for the past year. The feature of this
growth of business has been the reduction
in the expense rate which has accompanied
to say the least, daring. Still, such hand-
some returns are only in keeping Wlth
normal conditions prevailing. lhe Pioces-
sion of accounts of land and building cos.
which has passed through this page late y
has illustrated the extent of the boom in the
land and property business resulting from the
artificial prosperity which has followed upon
huge war and other spendings. At times when
building societies are “inundated with appli-
cations for advances, as one Sydney co. put
it the other day. it is only natural that
McKenzie’s and other timber people should be
kept exceedingly busy with orders, further,
having only limited stocks to meet the heavy
demands, it was, perhaps, to be expected
that the timber cos. would oblige by elevat-
ing their prices a little. Still,' profits on
this scale certainly invite attention.
One result of recent activities has been to
reduce the book value of stocks from
f 103,041 six months ago to £81,985 as at
March 31. Meantime, advances tomijls
have also fallen from £43,936 to £35, <OO.
During the period covered by the table big
changes have been effected in the balance-
sheet position: — * , ~r „ , on
Mar.,’l3. Mar.,’ls. Mar.,’2o.
Liabilities .. £55,83-6 £108,787 £15,686
Freeholds etc . . 65,924 69,080 81,289
Stocks etc • • 138,053 214,693 117,085
Shares in other cos. .. 10,250 10,250 10,250
Book debts, cash, etc. . . 47,361 43,744 84,1-7
The only new capital got in during the seven
years covered by that comparison lias been
£2698 representing bonus shares paid up by
the co. on behalf of employees. At March
31, 1913, there were net totalling
£205,753; they now amount to £277,660. At
the latest balance tlie co. was thus £i1,,)1-stronger
stronger than it was seven years before. In
other words, its position had bcem strengthened
to an extent equal to over 55 p.c. of the
capital actually put up by shareholders. it
has been a glittering performance, but it is
miostionable whether the recent pace can bo
maintained for long. There is yet the war
gratuity to “blew”; after that only the
speeding-up of production will sustain the
feeling of prosperity which is still inducing
so many people to build their own homes in
the face of undreamt-of costs.
Aerated Bread Cos. (Sydney), which
began in 1910 with £1.7,965 of its capital
represented by goodwill:
L Written
Profits. Dividends. OfT. Deficit.
Afar., 1913. : £2444 8 p.c. = £I4OO £228 £10,376
Sept., 1913.. 2676 8 „ „ 1400 18c 9,-87
Mar., 1914.. 1648 6 „ •• 10a0 1187 9.8,6
Sept., 1914.. 563 Nil 187 9,497
Mar., 1915.. 195 Nil 187 9,489
Sept, 1915.. 189 Nil 187 9,487
Mat, 1916.. 838 Nil
Sale of Manly leasehold, £ 566.. 9,327
Sept., 1916.. 105 Nil 1008 10,-30
Mat, 1917.. 1083 Nil 930 10,07,
Spnt 1917.. 1646 BuB 9 ’2sJ
sept, Written oflf capital, £10,500. Reserves.
Goodwill, £9384, disappears . . 95
Mar., 1918.. 3156 10 p.c. = 1225 1292 734
1018 3552 10 ~ ~ 1225 130, 1,754
Mat 1919'.: 3390 10 „ „ 1225 1209 2,710
Sept., 1919.. 2303 10 „ „ 1225 3,,58
LOSS.
Mar., 1920.. 3199 Nil 480 109
At last there is an instance of a co. having
been unable to keep pace with H.C.L. Wages
and expenses mounted higher at a time when
the prices of commodities were also soaring,
and the management was unable at once to
pass it all on to the public. The result was
a loss which has swallowed practically all
the surplus profit accumulated during the
previous two very successful years. Six
months ago the co. had been got into such
a comfortable position that the directors
declared that plant, etc., liad been so well
written down that no allowances for depre-
ciation need be made from that terms
earnings. The past half’s loss would look
even worse if the trading had had to provide
something for depreciation. Instead, £4BU
of a £OSO profit made on sale of plant last
year was set aside to cover recent wear and
tear Gross profits from manufacturing and
trading for the past tlirefe terms have
slumped in this way: £7496, £5938, £lß2l.
For the six months to September 30 last
salaries, rents, etc., absorbed £3634; for the
past term the figures had mounted to £oO~U.
The heavy loss has upended the liquid
position : Mar.,’lß. Sept.,’l9. Mar.,’2o.
Liouid assets .. ..£11,159 £26,439 £15*724
LiabUitfes ... W 26*04 21,422
Excess liabilities .. £1,171 £s^69B
Surplus assets • ■ £b3U
Possibly the management could have made
a better showing if it had lifted prices with
greater suddenness, but no doubt it preferred
an immediate loss in the balance-sheet rather
than chance incurring more or less permanent
loss of custom. Th<? co. is in a difficult busi-
ness, depending on fickle public favor and
faced with strenuous competition. Expansion
continues, however, two new branches having
been opened up during the past six months,
while the old restaurant business of the 1 resh
Food and Ice Cos., in King-street, has
passed to the co. The management has fitted
prices on two occasions lately, so the direc-
tors have hopes of at least making ends meet
during the current term.


Do you use soldering irons in your business? No
doubt you would appreciate the advantages of those
which stay hot and are free from the soot of a
heating flame. The G.E. Electric Soldering Iron
possesses these and many other advantages over the
old style. It costs but little for current, and re-
quires very little attention to be kept clean and
well tinned. An exclusive feature of this iron is
the spiral coil wire handle, which keeps remarkably
cool, and which may be grasped close to the tip
without discomfort. Australian General Electric
Company, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn
Street, Sydney; and corfier Queen and Little Collins
Streets, Melbourne. —Ahvt. [2
*•*.**
Water is nature’s thirst quencher for both man
and beast, and unless your supply is pure when you
receive it, much ill-health may result. Dwellers
in the country suffer the greatest disadvantage, as
they depend mainly on tank and river water, which
very often contains impurities and vegetable matter.
One pound of Aluminoferric will clarify 200-0 gal-
lons of water. It will not affect the taste, but will
give you a supply of beautifully clear and pure
water. For further particulars write to William
Adams and Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Also at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide. 1.3
Concentrating machinery for all classes of minerals
can bo made locally just as well as thev can be
imported from abroad. The Austral Otis 'Engineer-
ing Company, of Melbourne, specialise in all
machinery for the mill, including crushers, rolls,
grinding pans, tube mills, concentrating tables,
flotation plants, ore samplers, etc. They have
installed numbers of plants in Australia and outside
it, and are always ready to give information on
machinery for milling.— Advt. [4
Since the introduction of electricity for lighting
and power purposes, many homes in both the city
Table Capo Municipality, Council Chambers, Wyn-
yard, dated 19th August. 1914: “The five miles 60
chains of Biu. wood pipes (for pressures of 350 ft
head) which were supplied by you for the Wynvard
waterworks, have proved to be very satisfactory.
They are giving good results. Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) H. K. Littler, ’1 own Clerk.” Send for our
illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood Pipe
Company Ltd., (li.Q.) Burns Bay Koad, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and Foots-
cray, Victoria. Contractors to all State Govern-
ments. — Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035 And at Cliallis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
D. J. McClelland M.C.E. (Melb. Univ.) ; M. Ins.
C.E. (London); Civil and Hydraulic Engineer;
Land and Mining Surveyor. Designs, estimates, cost
irrigation and water-supply schemes; all classes
engineering work ; contractors advised; railway work.
90 Queen-street, Melbourne.— Anvr. '
The manufacture of '‘Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Austialia, both maiine and industrial types, is
i eceiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
laige maiine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
Tasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
pares with any imported engine on the market.
Advt Nel 11 & Robertson, Loftus Street, Sydney.—
* * * »
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
T. FI. Palmer, 8.E., Fel. Chem. Soc., etc., consult-
ing engineer, valuing, organising, technical advice
mining’ metallurgy flotation and selective flotation
pioceases, v,ollins House, Melbourne; and 79 Pitt
and I " esm “ :
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
™ f s ' or write for particulars. 11. B. Selbv * Co..
55 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Advt
Metropolitan-Vickers Electrical Co., Litd.
Everything Electrical
whether for _ the production, distribution or. application of electricity for
power and lighting purposes is manufactured by The Metropolitan-Viekers
Electrical Co.. Ltd. They offer the advantage of undivided responsibilitv
for power and lighting equipments.
Their productions include: Steam Turbines. Turbo-Generators. Blowers and
Compressors, Condensers. AC and DC Generators and Motors. Electric
1 ramway and Railway Equipments, Transformers and Converters. Switch
and Control Gear, Meters and Instruments, Lamps, Fans and all Electrical
Accessories.
1C
ELECTRICAL
CU. CTt»
Australian Offices—
-84 William Street, Melbourne. 12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Works: —Traff.ord Park., Manchester, England.
AINSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Bostock’s Shoe Dressing
m
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
—the aristocrat among Shoe Polishes. PRESERVES the
leather, and gives a brilliant and lasting polish.
Now supplied in Champagne and Light and Dark Grey for the
fashionable colored footwear. In large Screw-top Bottles.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s
Vlolo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney
The Commonwealth Life Assurance
Socieiy, Ltd. This is the third new co.
formed to do all classes of life business
which has been introduced to Sydney during
the .past few months, and its prospectus is
a dignified and impressive document. The
promoters make no extravagant claims, and
there is no attempt to mislead the* investing
public by quoting the big business figures
of other offices. They merely reproduce
statistics to show the rapid growth of insur-
ance business in the Commonwealth during
the past 30 years, and add that, “though
splendid progress has been made, only a
small portion of the field has been covered,
and much work lies ahead. A large propor-
tion of this new business is available for a
progressive co., and there is no reason why
the C.L.A. should not secure its share and
develop into one of the greatest and most
prosperous life offices in the Southern Hemi-
sphere.*’ That is the tallest tajk in the
prospectus. But the way of young life cos
is very hard, and, even if they do survive
their early struggles, many years must
elapse before shareholders can expect any re-
turn on their investment or even see their
capital represented wholly by tangible assets.
Still, the C.L.A. starts off with a clearer
sense of its obligations than is usual with
new life cos.; it has already enrolled E.
S. Wolfenden as its actuary, and its pro-
visional Board is strong in medicine and
law. Nominal capital is a quarter 'of a mil-
lion in £1 shares, 100,000 being offered for
subscription (ss. per share to be paid up to
begin with), and 5000 fully-paids going to
the promoter, Thornton H. Masters (for-
merly chief-inspector of the People’s Pruden-
tial and agency-superintendent of the T. and
G.), who undertakes to pay all preliminary
‘’xes. except brokerage. As an investment,
the C.L.A., like all new life cos., is, of
course, merely a long shot.
* * * *
Some time ago the Federal Treasury con-
sented to life insurance offices cashing gratu-
ity bonds for new policy-holders. This week
the permission was peremptorily cancelled
‘•because it is evident that in some cases it
is being used merely to discount bonds of
persons who have no intention of paying the
renewal premiums, and because, in many in-
stances, the annual premiums payable in
respect of the policies taken out are beyond
the means of the bond-holders.” Further,
the Treasury is requesting managements to
consider whether the annual premiums to
which bond-holders have committed them-
selves are “unduly high,” and is demanding
a return showing the bonds cashed,
particulars of policies issued and the
premiums paid. In some cases, it is alleged,
war gratuitants have paid as much as five
years| premiums in advance (in one case
practically half of the gratuity went in pre-
miums), so that they might convert the
paper into cash.
* * * *
David Fell, representing the London
receiver of Great Cobar (N.S.W.), announces
that he has received instructions to close
down and sell up. With the courtesy that
is customary in such cases he wrote to the
Mayor of Cobar intimating that he would
have to discharge all hands not required
during the process of realisation of the
assets. He also wrote to the Minister for
Mines, venturing the opinion that
the future of the town of Cobar wifi greatly depend
upon a comprehensive policy which wifi have the
effect of consolidating the various mines, thereby
reducing the cost of production. However, this is
a matter which can only be solved by those in
authority working in harmony with a sympathetic
Government policy.
Minister George Cann is reported to be
reticent. All of which is very interesting
and inconclusive. It would have been more
to the point if Mr. Fell, or somebody, had
written to the N. S. Wales Government
something after this fashion:
Great Cobar, Ltd., has been in the hands of the
receiver since 1914. For years it was the biggest
and most profitable copper producer in N. S. Wales.
About 14 years ago a speculative crowd decided that
the mine was good business for a big London float,
and the then-owners, popularly known as the Long-
worth Syndicate, were bought out for slightly over
£1,000,000, mostly in cash. It was a great float—
for those who sold the shares. The show was badly
over-capitalised, and equally badly controlled. The
management at this end was most times good enough
for the job, but neither the mine nor the manage-
ment could stand up to London’s demands. One
manager promised to produce 1000 tons copper per
month, and then faded away to the United States
when he found the mine was not capable of it. He
was a treatment man, and metallurgists take a long
time to learn mining. Tons of money have been
spent on reduction plants and surface equipment,
but no cash seems to have been made available by
Great Cobar, Ltd., for opening up fresh bodies of
pay ore. The thing has been messed up from begin-
ning to end, but if the N. S. Wales Government will
buy the plant the old creditors will be very
glad to receive the cash, and the Government can
then undertake the national task of discovering and
opening up any bodies of pay ore which Great
Cobar, Ltd., neglected.
It would be hard for anybody connected
with Great Cobar to write the above,
but it would clear the decks for action. A
Pew years ago the N. S. Wales Government
lent the Cobar debenture-holders £40,000 in
order to help keep the mine in operation.
War prices of copper enabled the show to
repay the loan, but directly the Armistice
arrived and copper became temporarily un-
saleable the mine was compelled to close
down. That was fatal. Although the price
ot electrolytic soon reached the £IOO mark
again, Cobar in the hands of a receiver
could not rise to the occasion. The shut-
ting down and reopening of a mine and
smelting works is a costly job, and calls
l spare capital. This was pointed out to
the Federal Government by all the N. S.
ales copper producers at the time. As
the Federal Government was (and still is)
controlling the sale of copper, it was asked
to guarantee a selling price of £SO per ton
pending the restoration of a market. It
was a safe, and for a statesman the obvious,
thing to do. But there were no statesmen
at hand; so all of the copper-mines were
compelled to close. Some, of course, had the
cash resources to open up again when the
inevitable market reappeared, but to Cobar
and a, number of mjnor producers it was
the death-knock.
If it is contemplated that John Storey’s
Government is, in the interests of the town
of Cobar, to be lured into doing something
for the Great Cobar debenture-holders, it
will need to realise that the problem has
more sides to it than can be dealt with by
the Government experts referred to by Mr.
Fell. In an obviously-inspired leader, the
S. M. Herald has been talking of the influ-
ence which the ever-increasing wages have
had on Great Cobar. Asa matter of fact,
wages have nothing to do with the case.
Ilie higher price of metals compensates for
the higher wages, and had it not been for
the muddling of the metals business by the
Federal Government, Great Cobar might
have been running to-day, though it is
doubtful if it would have been making much
profit on the old ore bodies.
Ever since Great Cobar, Ltd., has been
in the hands of the receiver it has been
apparent that the Cobar show, by reason of
its ill-balanced expenditures in' reduction
plants, expected all the outside ore pro-
ducers to come along and be swallowed by
it. This is wliat is referred to as “consoli-
dating the various mines.” Hitherto,
whenever there has been anything calling
for united action on the part of the western
mine-owners, Great Cobar has played a lone
hand. It had to carry out London’s instruc-
tions, so it said, and could not possibly
co-operate with others. Now that it is in
the soup, Cobar is anxious for united action
and a sympathetic Government. It is futile
blaming the men or the wages of the men.
Great Cobar, Ltd., and the Federal Govern-
ment together were responsible for the mess,
and they should clean it up.
* * * •
Hogan Taylor, resident-manager at Gt.
Cobar for five or six years, has apparently
become wearied. He moves on to the Laloki,
in Papua.
* * * *
Brown Lode, Cobar, lias declared its
second dividend, this time of £2, making £3
per share passed out within a few weeks.
The co. intends increasing the number of
its shares to 10,000, evidently in anticipation
of a market flutter. It may be just as well to
remark that this is not the first bunch of
good ore located in the Peak leases. It may
also not be out of place to remind the Brown.
Lode people that a healthy reserve fund is
a very handy thing to have about such a
show.
* * * *
There were lamentations concerning lost
opportunities when Amalgamated Hill End
shareholders got together in Sydney the other
day. So what els£ could chairman ex-Pre-
mier Joe Carruthers do but resurrect a little
fairly-recent history and remind shareholders
of the time . when, with only £2 in the
till and creditors for several hundreds, the
pursuit of the elusive veins had to be slowed
down because the flow of calls ceased? When
the Marshalls offered £2ooo for the propertv
and gave the co. a 25 months' tribute on
two veins, the directors declare they had
no option but to accept. The tribute expires
on August 11, and then liquidation is to
follow. Ihough weeks have elapsed since
the rich find was made, Amalgamated is only
now cqmmeucing to stope the stuff, treacher-
ous ground around the golden patch having
necessitated a considerable amount of tim-
bering Amalgamated directors still persist
that they are under an obligation to pass
over only 2-i- per cent, of gross gold winnings
to the Marshall Cos., whereas the latter
claims that the royalties are on a sliding
scale up to 50 p.c. on 20oz. stuff. The parties
propose deciding the matter “in a friendly
way by asking the Court to interpret.
* * * *
# lecent rains have enlivened proceed-
ings in the Emmaville district (N.S.W.).
Y-Water, Great Britain, Bourke’s Hill and
numerous smaller dredging plants having re-
ceived sufficient water in their dams to re-
commence operations. The Great Britain
Cos. has had an exasperating experience.
Its large.plant was shifted to a site on the
eastern side of Emmaville nearly 12 months
ago, and the management had the mortification
of being unable to start work while the price
of tin soared to unprecedented heights: and
now, when at last able to make a start, they
£9OO m ° n a market that has sa Sg e(J nearly
W ith White Hopes down in price and the
market paralysed and generally neglected,
xi amp ton Plains is wondering whether Itc/b-
--mson and Clark will exercise their final
option on 30,000 Hopes. The option does
not expire until Sept. 9, and many things
can happen between now and then. A'o
doubt Robinson and Clark are willing to
take reasonable risks, but if values do not
stand up to shaft and crosscut assays in
driving at 100 ft. between the two shafts
and beyond the deal will probably be de-
clared off. Daly, R. and C.’s mining repre-
sentative and adviser on the field, has left
lor London and is said to have three arnal-
gamations in view: (1) the White Hope
and adjoining Hampton Areas blocks; (2)
Golden Hope and two more of the Areas
Cos. s leases; and (3) Pernatty and some
surrounding ground. The first two amalga-
mations might give Hampton Areas Cos. a
leg-up, but how the White and Golden Hopes
would benefit is not clear.
Edna May shutters have gone up at last.
As the co. has not succeeded in finding a
new mine, the liquidation div. promises to
run into 10s. per share. From the time
Hartrick was sent West in 1912 till the
rails were drawn, the mine outclassed all
other claims in the State. The first few
cruslnngs, with the bit of capital paid by
shareholders, cleared off prospectors Annears
and Williams and put £7OOO in the till.
Once crushing began in earnest the value of
the shoots was rapidly disclosed, and soon
Is. and then 2s. divs. started to smash the
bears. They got their quietus earlv in the
war-days, when holders clung to Edna May
scrip in the belief that a good gold-mine
was the safest possession. Ivalgoorlie spec.-
sellers were pinched the hardest, for the
knowing ones there and in Perth never
would have Westonia on the list. Some
holders were paid Is. per fortnight for the
loan of scrip and had to keep shares up
to market, which meant that before they
couid cover they had to follow prices to
£9 10s. Tricks, Tolhurst, Bob Turner,
Iveats and Robinson were among the lucky
originals and punters in Edna Mav. The
mine produced 192,579 tons for gold worth
±<29,882, and over £325.000, or £7 12s. per
share, was paid in dividends. The only slip
ia t co,s career wa s the passing by of
the Deeps, but that was because the first
bore went down in hard country.
Ivanhoe’s chairman, F. A. Govett, de-
clares that there is no possibility of a reduc-
tion in costs below last year’s figures unless
a miracle happens. This means that with
the value of the ore reserves at 335. 9d.
costs at 31s. 6d. and 4s. 2d. going into resi-
dues, an all-round loss of 2s. per ton would
result. The only “saver” is the gold pre-
mium,, which in this estimate has been dis-
regarded. In order to maintain the present
monthly profit, the Ivanhoe Board proposes
to exclude all ore under 295. 10d., and to
endeavor to stope out 15,000 tons a month
of that grade for treatment. There is about
years work in sight on this basis. Re-
cent developments have opened reserves
mostly of lower grade. Apart from plant,
buildings, equipment, etc., and ore reserves
of a dividend value of roughly £IOO,OOO,
Ivanhoe holds the following liquid assets:
£23,246; loans, £11,413; investments,
Ql\\ it 2 ; sundl 'y de bts, £22,108; and stores,
£45,073; total, £273,632. Liabilities
amounted to only £12,287. A list of 32 of
the co.’s principal investments is given, and
of these only one—-Mt. Morgan—is Austra-
lian.
* * * *
T. W. Orton’s talk about Badak’s Jeneri
Valley concession ought to have steadied the
market, but it didn’t. The area he cuts
down to 5000 or 6000 acres instead of the
reputed 10,000 acres. Otherwise, accord-
ing to his account, everything in the gar-
den is blooming. The 100 acres check-
bored by Wilson are on the western side of
the valley, and Orton claims that it is not
the best slice of the block. Some of the
12 scout bores sunk elsewhere gave “exceed-
ingly high values,” but a bit more testimony
than that is wanted about a 5000-acre
jungle area. Orton talks also of the riches
up the valley,” which, of course, means
nearer to the source of the tin; but this
ground has not been tested. After all.
though, the claim was declared to be hidden
away in impenetrable jungle where no white
man had been before him for 50 years,” it
now appears that the field is a mere 2f
miles from the banks of a navigable river
leading to Penang Harbor.
* * * *
With Charters Towers and Gympie both
sick, Queensland is badly in need of anew
goldfield. The State’s output of the pre-
cious metal is now a mere shadow of that
of 15 years ago. The old Normanby field,
in the hinterland of Mackay and Bowen,
may possibly supply the want. Ex-Digger
Meredith, of Proserpine, who when he is
not out prospecting the ranges is jagging
out molars in the township, recently dis-
covered some fine reefs carrying payable gold
and bismuth on this field. A strong syndi-
cate was formed, and is now doing prelim-
inary work on over 20 reefs in the ranges.
The Mines Department sent an expert to in-
vestigate, and though his report is not yet
available it is believed that he considers
Meredith’s optimism justified. The country
is similar to Charters Towers —granite with
quartz reefs intersected by diorijic dykes.
Cooktown district (N.Q.) tin scratchers
are out after a better deal, and have estab-
lished a producers’ association. The w T ide
difference between London and local prices
has long been a grievance, and so also have
been the high prices asked for fracteur, car-
bide, tools, etc. Cooktown producers want
the Commonwealth Government to erect
smelters to treat the whole of the Australian
output. To illustrate the disparity between
local and overseas prices, one local manager
declares that when the London price was
around about £4OO his output was being
paid for on the basis of tin at £257 per ton.
* * * >.
The Speck’s Public Works Committee has
approved of the proposal to extend the
Zeehan-Comstock tramway the 6J miles to
South Ileemskirk, which will link up the
recently-floated Federation co.’s tin proper-
ties and Hoskins’s iron-ore deposits with
the main railway system. Federation is
assured of the connection, anyhow, for if
Hoskins Bros, fail to guarantee the neces-
sary tonnages from Mt. Agnew the tin crowd
have agreed to terms with the Government
which will run the line direct to their pro-
perties.


THE MOURNERS.
“Because of the refusal of the Governments to insist upon the arbitration which they have provided, 25,000 employees in Melbourne have been thrown out of work by 1500 men ordinarily employed in ‘key- industries. "


THE
Union Trustee Company
of Australia Limited
Executors, Trustees, Administrators,
Attorneys or Agents for Absentees,
etc.
New South Wales: Victoria : Queensland
The only Trustee Company having;
branches in more than one State.
SYDNEY OFFICE—IS O’CONNELL STREET.
Directors: I-lon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman), lion. James
Ashton, M.L.C., Hon. H. Y. Braddon,
M.L.C., F. B. S. Falkiner. James Kidd, W. H.
Mackay, R. M. Pitt, Duncan Sinclair.
V. G. WATSON, JOHN MAIR,
Assistant Manager. Manager.
CALL OR SEND FOR COMPANY’S BOOKLET.
advt
DEAF?
You can HEAR
by sending for an
Acousticon
ON 10 DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
IN YOUR OWN HOME.
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
Over 330,000 delighted users, includ-
ing the Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes,
who has been using the Acousticon for
more than five years.
The Acousticon will safely and surely
check your increasing deafness and
enable you to hear.
T »m?ft« store P(i 102 Dating: House, SYDNEY
IfAUIAUII s er yice vD Olderfleet, Collins St., MELB.
N.Z.: John Procter, 200 High St., ClirUtc'h.
IV.A.: 11. Little & Co., 851 Hay Street, rcrth.
Hotel Sydney
The Spacious Dining
Hall is a Rendezvous
of Eminence for
LUNCHEONS
and
DINNERS.
ITEMS—
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA.
CHARfIiNQ ROOF GARDEN.
Management P. T. CHEESEMAN.
The
finest
TOBACCO
PL’J2 SL'CE
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed.
“EDGEWORTH”
[4
“AMONG THOSE PRESENT.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am the little man you’ll see
Observing with much honest glee
A dog-fight or a bolt;
You may behold me standing by
When some poor soul with wits awry
Is brandishing a Colt;
My peaceful eyes through glasses peer
At much that’s joyous, wild and queer.
I go about and feast my gaze
On sundry things in mild amaze,
Give heed to this and that;
The whole world interests me, and so
My face is thoughtful, and although
My busy feet are flat,
I get around the town in haste
Lest anything should go to waste.
Now jealous men may shoot their wives,
Or shoot themselves because their lives
Are not with joys replete;
Again, some fellows play a game,
Or scale the silver steps of fame,
Or argue with much heat —
Thus everyone his time beguiles
And puffs my rosy cheeks with smiles.
A wicked murderer skips on air;
With tongues of brass the bands declare
The conquering hero comes;
In state the splendid figures pass
Like shadows in a pane of glass,
While all the concourse hums
A song of greeting to The Great— .
I am the figure calm as Fate !
The world goes round because it must,
And people rush from dust to dust,
And do “a heap between;
I am the chap who stands close by
And sees them live and love and die—
It is a busy scene.
I like the actors and the “book,”
So long as I may stand and look!
VICTORIA.
DALE COLLINS.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
“Croweater” and his new Governor; — r
Sir Archibald Weigall, our just-unpacked Cocked
Hat, in person reminds one of Chief Justice Murray,
who kept the job warm for him after the departure
of Galway. In height he must be very close to
Murray’s 6ft. 2in., and he has the same shining bald
crown extending well back towards his neck. Like
Murray, too, he looks the aristocrat. As a speaker
he is, however, free from the self-consciousness and
almost shyness which distinguishes Murray, He
speaks with force and confidence, making a great
deal of play with his hands, but has a disconcerting
habit of dropping his voice at the end of a sen-
tence, leaving the listener groping for his point.
Physically, he is rather more robust-looking than
Murray. The only visible defect in him is that
THEODORE FINK, Chairman of Directors,
Melbourne Herald.
he is too young and enthusiastic and capable to
be- a good rubber-stamp ; and after a few months of
opening bazaars and attending concerts and being
“advised” by time-serving politicians, he will begin
to .wonder what the farce is played for.
Chief Clerk Duffy, of the Federal Senate,
who is retiring next month, runs neck and
neck with the House engineer, T. Jeffery,
for the long-service medal. Both have been
attached to the premises for something like
half a century, and have seen them grow from
a barn to a jumble of wings and chimney-
pots. When Jeffery finally leaves his job
for the well-earned peace of his country seat,
the veteran of the staff will be Robert
Mitchell, the Reps.’ housekeeper. II is
record covers 40 years; and, if he ever pub-
lishes his reminiscences, we should get some
piquant snapshots of public characters in
their stolen moments.
Phil Glenister has seen his last Cup. A
Londoner, born in 1838, he came to Aus-
tralia at 15 and carried his swag to Stawell
and thence to Lambing Flat, where he made
his first rise. Always a fine horseman he
rode in several races with Adam Lindsay
Gordon and drifted into the racing game
first as owner (his horse Warrior won the
Australian Cup in 1873), then as bookmaker
and finally as commission-agent. He be-
came the most noted commission-agent of his
time; and he was a crack billiardist, boxer
and bowler and a dead shot. Sydney Tat-
tersall’s Club lost its Oldest Inhabitant
when Phil Glenister went west.
The erection of the Edward I’ll, eques-
trian statue in Melbourne recalls one of
Be n t’s yar n s.
(No, this one
is all right.)
When Tommy was
Premier in 1007
he took a run to
England after see-
ing that the gen-
eral election had
yielded him a good
working majority,
and dropped in to
set' Edward, who
then wo r e the
crown. Asked on his
return if the Peace-
maker had said
anything in partic-
ular, Brighton’s
pet said : “lie told
me I reminded him
of his great ances-
tor Henry VIII. I
took it smiling.
We had quite a
long confab, and
then, as became the
two great mon-
archs that we are,
w r e parted in kingly
fashion.”
SIR GODFREY
THOMAS , Private
Sec. to the Prince.
The late Charles N. J. Oliver, a former
Chief Commissioner of N. S. Wales Railways,
was a Hobart native, the son of a clerk in the
Convict Department, who later was a reporter
on the S. M. Herald and yet later clefk in the
Lands Department. Young Oliver graduated
in “the Lands,” became Under-Secretary of
the Department in his early thirties, and was
chosen by Parkes as one of the colleagues of
the imported Eddy when the State’s railways
were passed over to a Commission. As a
cricketer the late Charley Oliver played
against English and Intercolonial teams on
the old Albert Ground, and was connected
with the game as a S.C.G. trustee to the
end.
Frank Clarke, M.L.C., Vie. Minister for
Works, enrolled himself as a volunteer for
emergency work during the gas and engine-
drivers’ strike in Melbourne. He is handi-
capped by reason of the fact that bis feet
do not match; still he can play tennis well,
and is willing. Brother Russell, another
Uppah House member, though over 40.
joined the A.I.F. as a private, and helped to
peel spuds and clean pots for a start.
* Jimmy Mitchell, the jolly and fat West-
ralian Premier, is a native of Groperland,
and is never happy away froiff it. When
summoned to a conference east of the Bight
he sends one of his Ministers instead.
Another of his peculiarities (Napoleon had
it. also) is the faculty of going to sleep at
will in defiance of time and place. Should
an opponent disconcert him in debate he
simply leans back in liis chair and snores,
an artifice more effective than the most
withering retort. Jimmy is 54, and bis prin-
cipal recreation is dashing over the surface
of his State in a motor-car, feasting his eyes
on what he calls its “broad acres.” An
opponent querulously objected that an acre
in W.A. was no broader than an acre any-
where else, ljut Jimmy didn’t mind. lie
silenced the objector by going to sleep.
Walter S. Geard. formerly miners’ secre-
tary at Zeehan and for a score of years oue
of the most prominent among tljo Speck's
Labor hustlers, passed out suddenly in
Hobart Hospital the other day.. Though he
was half-way through his fifties when the
Devil broke loose, he joined up with the Tun-
nellers and helped to undermine considerable
quantities of German pride along the West
front during two strenuous years. He was re-
turned sick in 1918, but recovered sufficiently
to take his discharge and tackle work in a
telegraph-line repairers’ gang; then he had
the bad luck to meet with an accident which
gave him a troubled (and pensionless) time
for many months. Some rapid-action in-
ternal malady, possibly a war-time legacy,
brought the finish. Geard was one of the
selected Labor candidates for Denison at last
State elections, but declined nomination.
Again the conquering comp. Warren C.
Harding, chosen as Republican candidate for
the U.S. Presidency, used to be a linotype
operator on a small Ohio newspaper. Then
he broke into the writing department, and
finally became a newspaper publisher. He
is a Senator and a Baptist, but no wowser.
The Times has picked a good man to
represent it in Australia—Harry Peters, of
Sydney Telegraph. The job will allows him
to go back to the Federal Gallery, and he
can’t be really happy out of it: he will
''('sumo for the Sydney paper the Gallery
Notes which were interrupted when he
became news editor.
From the Federal Gallery—
Senator "Curly” Keating is a candidate for the
Presidency of the new Senate which meets in a few
days. Old President Givens is naturally reluctant
to resign the post, but faced with his own words
that “no man should have a monopoly i of the job,”
lie is now nerving himself to retire gracefully if the
vote should go against him. Givens’s downfall will
not cause grief among his colleagues nor send the
Ilotise ,stall' into mourning.
Hiuld. who has just won easily the Alex-
andra (S.A.) election consequent on Pre-
mier Peake's death, is a fluent speaker and
well-read, a product of S.A.’s strong literary-
gud-deba ting-society system. Under 40.
with three years’ previous Parliamentary
experience (1912-lu) and three of active
service (he went away a non-com. and came
hack with a captain’s commission and a
Military Gross), a director of the confec-
tionery manufacturing co. established by Ms
father, he ought to have a political future.
Martin Hannah has been notified by the
Luborites of Oollingwood (Vic.) that they
have no use for him after the dissolution,
which must come in a few months, or it
may be weeks, (T. A. McAllen got the
nomination in the pre-selection ballot, beat-
ing 10 others. One of the sins Hannah com-
mitted ,was that lie interested himself in
matters outside Labor politics—made a
hobby, for instance, of forestry development.
Still, there are districts where this kind of
patriotism may be regarded as a virtue. If
he were matched against Tommy Ryan in
Essemlon, for instance, the contest might be
keen.
George Maxwell, M.H.R., recently buried
Ids aged mother at Ivew (Vic.). The old
lady, who was born at Berwiok-on-Tweed.
bad passed lier 91st birthday. Her husband,
the Rev. David S. Maxwell, finished his long
life in 1914. George, who is one of four
surviving sons, is carrying a load of trouble
just now. He has developed an affection
which is threatening the sight of one eye.
Since a survivor of the passengers by the
original Buffalo has ceased to he available
for the Foundation-da.y celebration at Glen-
elg (S.A.) on December 28, the response to
“The Pioneers” has been made annually
by F. B. Oldham, and be died last week. He
arrived as a child in 1838, and was one of
the Kapunda Oldhams.
Rupert Pelly. dead in Adelaide at 60, was
one of those quiet, honorable ornaments of
the legal profession who are seldom heard
of oiltside the office and a .leading clufi. lie
joined Grundy, K. 0., about 40 years ago, and
the partnership remained unbroken to the
end. One Pelly daughter married a son of
Edmund Barton; the other is well known
in the musical world.
There was just one picturesque incident
in the otherwise commonplace life of James
Crocker, who died in Adelaide last week at
74. In business he dealt in coal; and that
took him on many inter-State trips in the
Black Diamond line, and once gave him an
exciting three days and nights before rescue
came after the wreck of the steamer Ridge
I‘ark off Gabo Island. Outside his job he
was an accomplished organist and choir-
master.
The late John Moore Smail, Engineer of
the Sydney Water and Sewerage Board, was
a native of Miller’s Point, where his father
founded a bread factory and graduated in
public life as a City alderman. Born in
1850, the son’s training was purely Austra-
lian. Through dad’s influence he got an
early job on the City Council, and joined
the Water and Sewerage Board on its estab-
lishment
Off to Britain and America to buy more
machinery, J; H. Butters, head of the Speck’s
Hydro-Electric Department. Incidentally,
Butters will advertise the fact that Tas-
mania is supplying about the 1 cheapest
power in the world, and he may possibly
mention that, provided he can secure the
machinery he is after, a few thousand li.p.
will soon be available for new customers at
the old price.
“Jermyn Street”: A photograph of the
new G.-G., taken as a member of the 1886
Oxford XI, is one of the first objects which
greet the visitor to Vincent’s, the famous
University Club in Oxford High-street.
Henry Forster was in those days tall and
slim and romantically handsome, and famous
as a forcing bat. Though he has sat for
28 years and lived in a Kentish constituency
(Sevenoaks, which is practically a suburb of
ADMIRAL
HALSEY.
London), he played
his cricket
for Hampshire.
He owns a place
there, and another
attachment is the
fact that his wife
is a Hampshire
w o m an. He r
brother is the pre-
sent Lord Montagu
of Beaulieu, a
famous Hampshire
identity, one of the
pioneers of the
motor-car, father
of about the first
man to be killed in
a flying accident,
and a life-long
friend of the
approaching G.-G.
Lord Forster has
had a solid, if not
brilliant, Parlia-
mentary career, but
it is as a sports-
man that be has
shone. He was one
of* England’s best
game-shots before
the war, and is a
very useful man in
a boat.
Tom Foley, M.L.A. for Mundingburra
(Q.), who topped the poll at the last elec-
tions, also tops the poll in years amongst
the State Labor politicians. He was 07 on
June 14. A countryman of Billy Hughes,
he was a delegate at the first A.L.F. Con-
ference in 1890, and had a hand in erecting
the first Labor platform. As be is a
builder’s laborer, platform-making is con-
genial work.
When the late “Chinese” Morrison adver-
tised in London for a shorthand writer and
typiste to return with him to Pekin he
determined not to be let in like other
employers who had taken attractive girls to
the small white communities of Asia and
lost them (and their passage money) in a
whirl of orange blossom. So, when he had
engaged the most capable of the applicants,
he went straight to Lloyd’s and insured her
against marriage. It was a wise precaution ;
but she was married nevertheless —to I)r.
Morrison.
Westralia gets a jolt in a leaflet entitled
“Who is Herbert C. Hoover?” issued by the
Hoover Republican Committee for Pennsyl-
vania to boost Hoover’s candidature for the
IT.S.A. presidency. It says: “The next 18
months he spent in Western Australia, a
desert where the temperature remains above
100 degrees for weeks in succession and
where surface water is discovered only every
50 or 00 miles.” But Westralia has the last
laugh. Its old friend “Hail Columbia” scored
no more than six votes among the 800 or so
in the Convention.
Gone west. Mrs. Bissett Amess. one of
the staunchest pals Billjim had. Through
the work of the Elizabeth-street (Sydney)
Voluntary Workers’ CafC, organised by this
lady, 14 homes have already been built for
returned Diggers; and each home in time,
and by the payment of a purely nominal
weekly rent, becomes the property of the
tenant. Mrs. Amess’s interest in her work
never slackened ; at the very end she was
busy on the arrangements for the dinner
the Aero Club was to give Matthews and
Kay. But the rooms never saw that
dinner—Mrs. Amess died on the morning of
the day it was to take place. She was a
daughter of railway-contractor Monie,
South Aus. won’t leave the “Duke of
Cornwall” out of its Prince addresses. Bice,
Chief Secretary, and Langdon Bonython, of
the Advertiser, are both Cornishmen, and
have taken good care that the county was
not overlooked. In fact, it was Bonython
who called officialdom to account for the
error in the first-issued directions.
From “The Oldest Inhabitant”:—
Went to - Sydney to see the Prince. He makes
the fourth generation I have seen. I witnessed the
entry of his great-grandmother and her consort into
Dublin in 1847, the year after the awful famine.
They were accompanied by the Princess Royal, after-
wards mother of the Kaiser, and the Prince of
Wales, afterwards (many years afterwards) King
Edward VIT. In the late ’sixties I saw the Duke
of Edinburgh, second son of Victoria, on his arrival
in Melbourne; and I saw the present King and
Queen Consort when, as Duke and Duchess of Corn-
wall, they came this way to open the first Common-
wealth Parliament two decades ago.


r/s»s:
©wnr
a
SO.
SSSS3KSS«S'feaS
7-U&
*H
sBfii*!j?)H3
ali»
AND
Cigarettes
%) Ltd,
**>
6*
CIVIC
THE
STANDARD
PIPE
;i5- Q: G> ®-


LADIES! Your Complexion is Part of Your Attire.
A PERFECTLY STYLISH ATTIRE FALLS SHORT OF ITS EFFECT
_ if your skin is not in harmnnv
EyERY WOMAN co _* IELV <y *+Z2% th... d.taiis.
which no one can afford to despise.
OHN
s
TRANCE
w
INTERS
TOILET PREPARATIONS WILL HELP YOU.
a
>
Powd P h r aV « l,r t o wV he v greateSt friend to womankind.
j, l ! e . I 3 tints), New Face Cream (Z colors)
Fakshnn Cream and Hotion, Soap, Hair Foods (Oilv
Cream '° ily) ’ Carmll “’- ®V.sLflpoJ, Md dSJS
Ask for them at The Civil Service, Washington H
W T J *f 8 / ette r% David Jones', Anthony Hordern?'
W. T. Waters', Farmer and Co.’s, All Departmental
Stores and Heading Chemists. yarimenrat
! ei^a 3< S Stamp J: 0r Booklet and sample of Soap or
<” a .™ e the color), or Face Creams, to John
Q K. e n%” 0, "“ : K “ b «™
\/\eltoman
iISPEJIALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
advt
E. DROWN (§> SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL - OVER • THE • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management cf Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
He Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
t
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Dire/ctor.
SOCIETY
MINCHINBURY
bag : Melbourne Argus, which likens
'i/% />om Pl * e t 0 the Kingdom of God (P,.
havin S all the bathos to
xtselt. >S. M. Heraed unctuously assures us
that now Teddy’s arrived “all they battled
ior O.e, the radiant ones who died in lilied
.t ranee and grey Gallipoli”) is here. And
Adelaide Advertiser descends to this
Many wanted to touch the Prince’s car as it
passed. I heard a young woman in the crowd one
«»>’ superciliously, “It reminds me of ‘touching
the hem of His garment,’ ’’ and a woman swung
round angrily. “Yes. She was touching an ideal.
So are we!’’ It was the answer.
Having a sense of the incongruous, the
1 mice may derive a certain amusement from
this competition in crawlsomeness. But it’s
a degrading business.
j( * * * *
Bur o’: When Tommy came marching
home first class wasn’t good enough to offer
him. Now— On production of a doctor’s cer-
tificate the Repat. will issue to a discharged
soldier in need of hospital treatment a free
warrant on rail or boat to the nearest mili-
WHEN BOTH OF THEM HAVE
CLAWS.
I don't think that friendship between a
man and a woman is so impossible."
“Of course not. Anyway, it's child’s play
compared with friendship between two
women."
tary hospital. This warrant provides for a
second-class railway ticket, or a steerage boat
passage. The “privilege,” remember, is avail-
able only to a man disabled by war service
and travelling because pf that "disability. I
lately went on one of these warrants from
L.airns to Brisbane, and I know that the
lough food and the limited deck space which
s M red a mixed cargo including cattle
and horses did not do me half the good that
a situation on the upper deck would have
hone. My little active-service legacy is
diagnosed “pulmonary tuberculosis and loss
ot right eye.” My country can hardly realise
low grateful I am to be given a ride with
the cattle when it becomes necessary for me
to take my carcase to the hospital!
* * * *
‘•Newsey K.”; You can get fantods with-
out the help of liquor. We had been
standing-to for a day and a night on the
Dead Sea shore waiting our turn to
join the procession across the Jor-
clan to Amman via the Moab crags.
Our little crowd was the Camel
Corps’ contribution to the demoli-
tion side of the stunt. Every man
had a pack camel loaded with gun-
cotton or ammonal to pull along be-
side the brute he rode. We started
on. over mountains where the going
was chiefly goat tracks and eagle
roosts, and bitter hurricanes of
sleet and snow fell on us like ene-
mies. After 4S hours’ continuous
mountaineering the symptoms be-
San. My little lot were varied ; but
I still remember the tricks the hind-
quarters of the camels in front
played me. They would grow away
up in the air every now and then
like a column of smoke and then
transform into a big grinning
bearded Bedouin— sometimes into
several of them. Then a patch of
bare rocks away ahead, glistening
in the wet moonlight, would float
into a towered marble city full qf
wide streets and hospitable-looking
mansions; and bare hillsides would
cover themselves with widespread
gardens and long, leafy Vistas,
although there was not a tree on
the whole wild journey. I had
my eyes wide open all the time, and
was subconsciously aware that they
were merely playing me tricks; but
I could in no way stop them until
the light of the morning sun again steadied
us all to realities. I reckon nearly all our
mob had ’em on that trip, and I remember
long after hearing a padre’s version of his
fantods.
* * * *
• Imiofire :In September) ’lB, while clias-
nig J ritz back, we halted for the day just
outside Peronne. Our bugler had trumpeted
the glad news that our midday meal was
ready, and a queue of Diggers in undress
uniform had lined up, when down came the
rain. The atmosphere crackled with oaths,
and one Digger whose dress consisted of
undershirt and trousers was particularly
eloquent. But he wouldn’t leave his No. 2
possie in the queue. After exhausting his
vocabulary, he shrugged his shoulders re-
signedly and said: “Oh, well, thank Gawd
1 ve got me warm braces on !”
*
“J.E.”: The first modern ship flying the
Hebrew flag was launched lately at Jaffa,
which used to be Jonah’s Joppa. Possibly
it is the very first ship to carry that flag,
for cloth banners are, so far as scanty his-
tory goes, not very ancient. The vessel
wasn t built in Palestine, for it was a pur-
chased Hun merchantman, but it had beeh
H? Ck ilr the l e for alt , erat ions. So apparently
the Allies have civilised Jaffa to the extent
of providing a dock. When I
called in there in 1911 one landed
in a small boat manned by cursing
jobbers of the Arab-Philistine
brand, who dodged marvellously
among boulders to reach the shore.
Ihe difference between a maritime
race and a financial race is that
the first builds ships and the
second buys them. But, at any
fate, it is manned by Jews, and it
is to be hoped that it will have
better luck than the last and only
Jewish argosy of renown—King
Jehoshaphat s fleet, which went to
pieces -on the shoals of Ezion-geber Bv
way of setimg forth that the ship of Jaffa is
T>if p? inniriB A ® f a , new era it has been named
b Thl 10 m"' N ° d( i ubt they would have called
St,-ucb a roc“' onlT ' you *•“■*•* Mow,
Observations of a stage-manager:
t Syd " ey ’f holida >' coat f or the Prince’s visit made
Josephs look like Sunday’s tablecloth. Macquarie-
street was a jumble of red, green, blue, yellow
orange, black, gold, white, purple, chocolate and
pmk; Bridge-street the same; Moore-street aggra-
vated the offence by hanging orange discs with red
and blue lights in the centre of dull-green foliae-e
right across the roadway; and much inartistic
assistance was kindly lent by patriotic grocers
newspapers, pubkeepers and plumbers who smeared
lainbow hues over their business premises. The
I rince of Wales s plumes were presented in every -
. thing but their real coloring; they even glowed in
green from the window, of one unconscious satirist.
Before I die a hundred years hence I hope to see
some national festival celebrated in a really artistic
manner. Moore and Macquarie streets present unique
opportunities for delightful treatment in two or
three harmonious colors, instead of the flagrant vio-
lation to which the Decoration Committee subjected
it. It’s a pity the gentlemen on that committee
didn’t take a few lessons in color values from Julian
Ashton, or eat their lunch in the salon of some
fashionable lingerie establishment. Either would be
an aifistic education. Were I a Dominating Per-
sonality I would propose, second and carry unani-
mously a motion to omit Messrs. Bumble. Boodle
and Bible from all future decoration committees, and
put the work in the hands of a group of artists with
an executive of business men.
THE RIVALS.
J ILL: “I suppose you have had the girls
chasing you in every portf"
JACK: “Oh, I dunno. The prince is on
hoard, too, y’know.”
Paper is scarce and dear, yet 07 addresses
without a bright or original idea among the
lot, were waiting for his Utterly Bored
Highness on reaching Sydney, and 67 sets
or mostly awkward, flurried, uncomfort-
able men and women were waiting to deliver
them very badly and receive answers. The
plaintiffs in this intricate case included the
Society lor the Prevention of Cruelty to
Cannibals, the Dejected Volunteers’ Asso-
the ' Shakspeare Society, the Josh
Billings Society, the Highland Society, the
Dead Level Association, the Hollow Insti-
tute, the Young Men’s Pagan Association,
the Irogress Association, the Hebrew Back-
sliding Corporation, the Unpaid Poets’ Club
and many, many others. The burden of
their remarks was
that they were glad to see the Prince and found
him looking Aery much ds they expected and a
credit to his illustrious ancestors.
That the occasion was a memorable and unpre-
cedented one which would redound to the satisfac-
tion and improvement of all concerned, and the
memoiy - of it would linger in the long corridors
of time and leave the deejp indentation of its
No. 10 on the sands of space to awaken lofty
inspirations among generations to come, which same
would pass on the torch of consequent enlighten-
ment and uplift until its waves washed on shores
yet unborn.
That since his Royal Highness had seen the Empire,
and been seized with a wide appreciation of its
unlimited and undeveloped resources,-and its Heaven-
born mission in urging the car of progress to its
destined and inevitable culmination, so that the
imperishable lamp of civilisation might blow on
every breeze, it was advisable to bind the wide-
flung fragments of the Crown closer together, wherein-
before our dead on a thousand battlefields and the
spirits of. our ancestors that start from every
wave might remain an enduring landmark whose
voice would never be deaf to the cause of the
suffering and the oppressed.
That the speakers, the mayor and aldermen of
Bug Flat, were prepared to die in the last ditch
for his Royal Highness, and hoped the old people
at home were well, and that he wouldn't get wet on
the return journey across the heaving deep.
Then a visitor who must have been bored
to extinction tried to convey that, having
met the Mayor and Corporation of Bug Flat
also the Josh Billings Association and the
Society for Giving Gruel to Cannibals, he
could now die happy. Some blessed day
there may be a revolt or Prohibition move'-
ment, and the presentation of an address
to anybody may be ranked as assault and
battery, just like the presentation of a brick
that is travelling too fast.
* * * *
“Balded”; “Hamfat” is only partly right
about the origin of the Jazz (B. 17/6/’2O).
The cause of the atrocity was Jasper Hen-
derson, leader of a negro orchestra in the
dark-town section of Chicago. He played at
dance-halls with much fervor, and one night
lost control of his arms. They swung
wildly, and the darkie players, thinking he
was signalling for more air-pressure, buckled
into their cornets, clarionets and trombones
with weird and discordant results. Jas. was
indignant, but the dancers demanded an
encore that night and every other night.
The terrible affliction he had caused must
have preyed on his mind, for Jas. has gone
out of the musical business now and is living
in anguish on the profits. Really the dance
was only adapted to, and named after, the
music.
* * * *
From the Court Circular in that paragon
of loyal prints, Sydney Sunday Times :
Ihe Prince was again unlucky in his bets at
llandwick yesterday. His investments included: 5Q
to seven Aries, 16 to two Volpi, 174 to 10 Lord
Cecil, 42 to six Accrington, 36 to three Menin,
15 to live Rathluba and 10 to two Glad Star (all
losers).
'the Prince will attend St. Andrew’s Cathedral
this morning. The minister shall say: Repent ye,
for the Kingdom of Heaven is at hand. Dearly*
beloved brethren, the Scripture moveth us in sundry
places to acknowledge and confess our manifold sins
and wickedness, etc. General Confession, to be
said by the whole congregation: Almighty and most
merciful Father, we have erred and strayed from
Thy ways like lost sheep, etc. Prayer for the
absolution or remission of sins.
Seems rough on a sport who has lost his
money to rub it in like that, even if he is
a prince.
* # . * * *
Federal Treasurer Watt and Vic. Attorney-
General Robinson, who met lately on John
Bull’s doorstep, each with his hat in his
hand, had another famous meeting over 20
years ago, when they were both small pota-
toes. Watt was a stalwart champion of the
shilling-ticket gamble, politely called an art
union, then run by the A.N.A. Arthur
Robinson scorned the catchpenny phrase
used by the boosters, “A Fortune for a Bob,”
holding that it was frightfully out of accord
with the high “One People One Destiny”
note, which the organisation was so fond of
bugling. The matter came up at the
Natives’ annual conference, held that year
21 years ago—at Pt. Fairy. Watt won by
a few votes, but it was a Pyrrhic victory.
Sizing up public opinion as expressed by
Robinson, the new board of directors inter-
dieted the gamble, and it has not been run
this century.
“Old Red” : Reversing a decision of Not-
, core, I .M., and two ei-civil service
Js.P, Justice Hood (Vic.) has fined a
I; iinders-street shopkeeper £l5 with costs
tor selling postcards which ’S’onor con-
sidered indecent. It was rather a snub for
Moore, who had talked about some people
detecting impropriety in the uncovered leg
of a piano. The naughty postcard has long
been a trouble in Melbourne. Watt, when
I.M.G. in Vic,, brought up some specimens
to show his colleagues so that he might be
AS THE IVY.
THE ONE: “Does Jack like you hotter in
clinging gowns?”
THE OTHER : "Rather! And the longer
they cling the better!”
empowered to censor more drastically. Old
Melville was taking up so much time with
Defence issues that Watt despaired of get-
ting a hearing; so he pushed some of the
worst of the pack into Melville’s papers,
and then mischievously handed the file to
Premier Allan McLean, ostensibly to draw
his attention to a clause. The very proper
Allan spotted the dreadful pictures.'and lec-
tured the innocent Melville—“a very old
man,, too, for whom there was no excuse”
when Watt intervened, explained, and got
the extra, powers he sought.
(Continued on page IS.)
THE HATEFUL HYMN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
~ the voyage to San Francisco Archbishou
Manmx offended the American passengers bv re-
“aln!n? seated while ‘The Star-spangled Banner’
was being played. He said there were Englishmen
K?ng!’"*’ anU he nustook it; for ‘God Save the
dl rnu tllC , Sta f' spangled banner, and long may it wave,
though his Grace didn't know it from “God Save
the King’’;
The Americans rose at the sound of a stave,
But he stuck to his seat when they started to
sing.
Ihe company stood, but there flashed on his sight
upstanding and vocal, the Englishmen there; ’
JNo act of a Saxon could ever be right,
So, in spite of the Yanks, he remained in his
chair:
True, the Englishman’s anthem is harmless enough
„ a P ra Ter for the health of a dacentish man;
uut the doctor is made of implacable stuff
He loathes all the English he possibly can.
He hates ’em so much, sure, ’twould plaze him to
burn
Their villynous writings in prose and in verse,
And their tongue he’d eschew—could a man only
learn
To cuss the whole nation with comfort in Erse.
K.S.VV.
B.


—
MS
■
\
w
■i u
Hfitt
lilsii.
n«
saisa*
kvw
n«
wsSsMiwaas
.
.
A* ' v
-•
m&vi
BKS
*aar
'8 Pa
at*
*■*<» *»--,
s*<; •,
' ’;i4y
*«ina
43
X
Jr
«s.r
Jmg#*
y
/
tUaiilHl3fHttj
#
I.
>ARA RUBBER WORKS
VICTORIA
FOOTSCRAY
BARNET GLASS
Rubber Co. Ltd.
11 Founders of the Rubber Industry in Australasia ”
BRISBANE
advt
Manufacturers of
Motor, Motor-cycle including the famous
‘ Boomerang’ —Cycle Tyres—Solid Rubber Tyres
—Rubber Heels—Rubber Mats—Engineering
Requisites —Medical Rubber Goods Waterproof
Garments —Beltings—Packings; in fact, Rubber
Goods of every description.
The Great Demand for BARNET GLASS
RUBBER GOODS is guarantee of their
superiority.
ALL AUSTRALIAN MADE.
Melbourne: 289-293 Swanston Street,
Sydney: 124 Castlereagh Street.
Adelaide: 73 Pirie Street.
Brisbane: Creek Street.
Hobart: Collins Street.
Perth: Hay Street.
Launceston: Patterson Street.
Christchurch: Cashel Street.
Auckland: Victoria Street.
SYDNEY
ADELAIDE
PERTH
MELBOURNE
HOBART


Exclusive
Stewart Dawson’s
Outrivalling in Variety and Splendor the
Richest Displays of the World’s great
Commercial Centres.
Stewart Dawson’s rare Diamonds are set
in Pure Platinum, and are without doubt
the last word in Quality and Value.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS.
Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
PERTH (Aust.).
REGENT STREET (LONDON).
STEWART DAWSON’S
Largest Jewellers of the Empire.
D 9925 —New Design
Single-Stone
Diamond Circle
Brooch, Platinum
and 15-ct. Gold,
£7/10/-
KB24 —Beautiful
Diamond Set Circle
Brooch, £25.
KlB2 —Elegant Design Fine White Diamonds,
set in Platinum and loot. Gold, £2l.
KlB0 —Choice Design Platinum Faced Dia-
mond Set Brooch, £B/10/-
KlB3 —Artistic Design Fine White Diamonds,
set in Platinum and 15ct. Gold, £2O.
KBl0 —Pine Quality-
Diamond Set Circle
Brooch, Platinum
and 15ct. Gold,
£3O.
K997—-Dainty De-
sign Diamond Set
Circle Brooch,
Platinum and
15ct. Gold,
£B/10/-
Mounting's
Rare Diamonds.
Call at any of the Stewart Daw r son
Establishments and inspect their beauti-
ful assortment of Diamond Ring Designs,
which is continually being added to.
Remember high-grade stones are a per-
manent investment.
TEN ESTABLISHMENTS.
Eight in Australasia. Two in London.
AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRIST-
CHURCH, DUNEDIN (N.Z.),
HATTON GARDEN (LONDON).
STEWART DAWSON’S
Write for Latest Catalogue.
* * * *
Points of etiquette have been so multiplied
that it is now almost as risky to pass a
remark to a labor union as it was in old
times to playfully squash a Czar’s hat over
his ears. No sleeping infant is more readily
aroused or more uncertain afterwards. The
Lithgow (N.S.W.) shindy which threw 1000
men out of work began quite simply. Three
moulders, when there was no moulding to
do, were asked to fill in with cheaper work
but without reduction of pay. They refused
on a matter of dignity. As they couldn’t be
kept moulding and would do nothing else
they were dispensed with. Then a big strike
started witli a demand for reinstatement.
Even a union could hardly object if men
were put off when there wasn’t work for
them to do, so presumably the wrong or
insult lay in the offer of different work to
go on with, though there would have been
no humiliation in staying on and doing no
work. A good many jobs—beach rescues,
fire-fighting, first-aid and odd bits of phi-
lanthropy, for instance—are done casually
CAUSE FOR BAD FEELING.
“And what if Billy Brown is there? I do
believe you’re jealous of him!”
“Well, to tell you the truth, I am—the brute
didn’t marry you.”
and unprofessionally, for a lot of men and
some gods don’t stand strictly on forms and
ceremonies. On the other hand, the fretful
porcupine refuses to depart from his official
rut for anything or anybody. Even if all
civilisation threatens to fall about his ears
he just porks along and goes not out of the
way to help anyone save himself. There is
much of the porcupine about unionism in
its modern developments.
* * * *
When Prince Edward Albert Christian
George Andrew Patrick David (who may, in
a spasm of originality, be King Patrick I.
some day) goes to his castellated home, he
will be able to say these two things: that he
has seen a lot of cities looking as they never
did before and may never do again, and that
he has seen a lot of people looking as he
hopes they will never look any more. That
isn’t much information, but ‘it is all that
travelling royalties get.
* - * -* *
“Ex-Dig.”: War lies that got into the
London papers used to while away the
tedium of dull hours in the trenches. One
"'“ich had a great vogue during the winter-
i 'lb concerned a Tommy who was
missing for nine days, and who explained that
he had spent the time in shellholes on No
Man’s Land. He had.
he said, been stunned
by a bullet striking
his tin hat whilst he
was on patrol. Be-
ing uncertain of his
whereabouts, he had
stayed out," living on
chance tins of bully
beef, until desperation
prompted him to make
a move, which was,
luckily, in the right
direction. Seemingly
his heads believed the
yarn; but we didn’t.
We only wondered
where the admired
Ananias had spent his
holidays. A Digger
went one better. He
came back from a
little jaunt to the
estaminets with a cir-
cumstantial narrative
of a stumble into
enemy lines and im-
pressive details of
what he saw there.
On the strength of
this information a
stunt was organised,
and it was successful:
which was unlucky
for the Digger, for
Ayhat was found con-
victed him of being- a
picturesque liar.
But for that lie might
have got a decoration. The Tommy did.
An idyll uf Lower. George-street—
The tramway dips towards the Bridge-street corner
and there he stood looking' at the girls’ legs as they
climbed into the cars.
The man was quite shameless about it. His was
not the insolent stare of the ker-nut or the furtive
glance of the family solicitor over his folded news-
paper, but the calm survey of the expert—cold,
deliberate, appraising. He even took notes.
“Seen any good ones?’’ I asked.
He completed an entry in his notebook before he
looked up.
“I presume, sir,” he said, “you refer to elegant
contours. You regard me, if I may say so, as a
connoisseur in calves. That is a distinction to
which I do not pretend, but in the course of my
observations I have learned that Chippendales are
less prevalent than propsticks, and that there is a
regrettably large proportion of beef-to-the-heels.”
“Is that what you’ve got down in your note-
book?” I inquired.
“You are interested in my notebook,” he rejoined.
“You Would like to see what I have set down this
afternoon? Your curiosity is piqued; you wonder
at my profession; you cannot divine whether I am a
ballet-master or a collector of medical statistics? Do
I get you?”
“You do,” I said.
“Well,” he proceeded, “get me. I will read the
sum total of my researches to-day. Listen: ‘137
black, 98 white, 40 tan, 37 mouse, 10 blue, 9 fawn,
8 champagne, 2 puce and 1 pink.’ ”
“What’s that?”
“One hundred and thirty seven black, 98 white,
46 tan, 37 mouse, 10 blue, 9 fawn, 8 champagne, 2
puce and 1 pink.”
“But I don’t follow you.”
“You will. Permit me to hand you my card. Do
me the kindness to read it.”
This is what I read:—
Professor Deadwood.
Scientific Dyer,
Patronised by Point Piper.
Orders executed with every care and attention. New
Blouses for Old! Skirts' transformed. Lingerie
Metamorphosed. The Finer the Article the Finer
the Result!
We Specialise in Stockings! ! !
“The fact is,” he confided. “I’m just starting a
business and am laying in a stock of fashionable
colors on the basis of the interesting and gratuitous
exhibition to be witnessed at any busy street corner,
particularly when the weather is wet. Possibly
you will be so kind as to give me my first order.
You are married? No? Some friendly barmaid”....
But I buzzed off.
“First Mate”: The reception tendered to
the Prince in the Vic. backblocks calls to
mind a comedy played during one of bluff
old Viking Rawson’s N. S. Wales country
tours. The town he was visiting is divided
into two municipalities, East and West.
The East is the only part that matters, as
the West is just a glorified teamsters’ camp.
When his Ex. arrived the usual procession
was formed, with Sir Harry and the
Eastern Mayor in the lead —the Mayor
driving. Crossing the bridge that joins the
two municipalities, the Mayor of the West,
who was also the local milko, held up the
caravan and demanded that, as his Ex. was
now in his touri, he should have the honor of
driving him. Now, when the procession
hove in sight his Worship, the Mayoress
and the kids were just finishing the morn-
ing’s teat-pulling, and Bill had sprinted over
as he was. The situation was a delicate
one, but as there was not time to take coun-
sel’s opinion, and Bill’s claim seemed a
fair one, the Mayor of the East had to get
INHERITED WISDOM.
“You know a terrible lot about husbands for
such a little girl, How many have you
had?”
“None yet—but my mother has divorced five
of the blighters.”
out and the procession continued with Rill
in the place of honor dressed in his covvyard
costume. The presence of Sir Harry did
not create much of a stir among the team-
sters, but there were cheers for Bill. When
the vice-regal chariot rolled back to Eastern
territory William got out, the Eastern
Mayor drove his Ex. back to civilisation, and
the other potentate went home and finished
Strawberry.
* * * *
“Spare Corp” : Wonder if Miss Lily But-
ler, who ran The Buckshee Club in Paris,
preserves the coin handed to her by a thank-
ful Digger. He arrived at the dub in the
first flush of his Paris leave, and became
friendly and conversational. Sympathetically
he inquired what the lady would do when
the war was over, advising her not to go
into a pub—no, he didn’t think she ought to
go into a pub. At parting he wanted to pay
for his refreshments, and bade the staff an
affectionate farewell. When he had gone
they found a two-franc tip under his
deserted plate. Good old Bill from Boggabri!
You couldn’t find a man who felt more
gratitude, and spoke less, in all the world.
* * * *
“Jacaranda” states a case :
If the suggestion that Australia should (as it may
under the Peace Treaty) take over enemy-owned
properties in (late) German New Guinea, there’s
going to be some pretty tangles to unravel. Here is
one of them. Forty years ago a well-known Samoan
pioneer lady, of German nationality through mar-
riage, acquired a group of islands and started what
is now a profitable plantation. About 10 years
later the Samoan pioneer, in a burst of generosity
which she made no secret afterwards of regretting,
gave the group to a relative who was marrying an
Englishman. When they recovered from the wedding
festivities it was found that the bridegroom had
struck the iron while it was hot and was in pos-
session of properly-signed documents which made
him the owner of the group. It is to be presumed
that they thus became British property. In due
time the English husband died and left the group
to his only daughter, with the proviso that his
widow should retain a half-share in them so long
as she lived. The widow’s subsequent excursions
into matrimony include both a German and a Scotch
husband —both dead now. The daughter married a
German a couple of years before the outbreak of
war. Her husband was one of the officials entitled
to return to Germany under the terms of surrender,
and she, sharing his belief that Germany would win
the war in about six months, went with him. She is
still in Germany and has German-born children. As
no agreement to the contrary was made before mar-
riage, this girl’s property all became her husband’s
by German law. Thus the group of islands once
more became German property, with a British sub-
jeet retaining a life interest in them. The said
British subject left the management of the group
entirely in her son-in-law’s hands; she received her
share of the profits twice a year and was quite satis-
fied. Since his return to Germany she has had to
take control again, and has never made any secret
of the fact that all her labor was for the ultimate
benefit of her German grandchildren. She has no
particular love for Germans, and it is the fact that
they are her daughter’s children—not their nation-
ality—that counts with her. Now, if private pro-
pertv (of German ownership) is to be taken as part
of the indemnity, who is to get the valuable group
and where does this woman who has done valuable
work in the islands come in? And this is only one
of many tangles.
* * * •
‘‘Murkah”: Great was the indignation of
the wireless amateur when the Navy
Department announced recently that the fee
payable by an amateur for a permit to erect
a station at his own expense would be £2 2s.
per annum. This charge is payable even
when a receiving-set only is installed. Two
guineas for nothing is ridiculous, and coming
on top of the high cost of apparatus is a
last straw. Scores of amateurs are shelving
their hobby till the rumored return of Radio
to the P.M.G.’s Department is accomplished,
when they hope for more reasonable con-
ditions. I know of four amateur stations so
perfectly constructed that with 30ft. aerials
they easily beat the 400 ft. affair at Carling-
ford, near Sydney. It is a pity, from a
national point of view, to see such compe-
tent experimenters going out of commission.
When war broke out Australia grabbed
practically every amateur in the business
and wished there were more. Dor the Navy
to act in such fashion as to seriously
reduce the number of these potentially
valuable enthusiasts who train at their
own expense is a policy of utter stu-
pidity. The stock argument that amateurs
interfere with commercial working is base-
less. During years in wireless on ship and
•shore I have never once been bothered by
an amateur station.
YES, AND DIVORCE, TOO.
“It's all nonsense to say kissing is danger-
ous. What disease could you possibly
spread just by a peck on the lips?”
“Well-ei — there’s marriage, my dear.”
WINTER SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Half the green world is asleep,
And the other half waking;
Wearily the gum-trees weep
As the morn is breaking.
But the willow down by the river
Has tossed the last leaf
To the wind that makes low glasses shiver
In the year’s last grief.
Strangely goes the cloud over the sun
With the morning at ten,
Winking to smother a day just begun;
And the evergreen men,
Knowing not summer or winter
If their toil be a gain,
Work on while there breaks a grey splinter
Of light through the pane.
And the leaves fall this year
And the leaves fall next,
But the green trees stand bannered and clear
By all the winds vext.
Green trees and bare trees, trees sleeping
and waking;
But a man has all years in his soul and all
dawns near the breaking.
Spring’s a good comer !
Let the leaves fall.
In winter is summer;
And all the birds call
Cheerily over and over
Where goes the wind rover—•
The white bird, the blue bird,
The bird of no wrong,
In the lilt of a word,
In the sun of a song.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
THE CATCH-MONGERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Is there no hope? May man not win release
From all the merry jests that roam about?
Is there no blessed vale of silent peace
Where no unhallowed fool will gaily shout:
“Why’s Walter Kirby like a salmon trout?”
When at the club I wash, and stinging soap
With lips as hot as flame consumes rny eyes,
What time I for the towel madly grope
A voice like'thunder through the darkness cries:
“D’you know why Ross Smith’s like a big surprise?”
I cannot buy a brother-man a drink,
Or go a journey in a railway train,
Without the awful presence of the wink
Which tells me that I’ll have to wrack my brain
And say wherein Hughes differs from a crane.
I plead I suffer from a host of ills;
I’m deaf, I’m dull, I’m blind, I have no wit,
But none of these the jesters’ clamor stills,
Like bats around my head they swoop and flit —
Of what avail are brows that darkly knit?
I fear to die lest those who went before
Have gone with ghastly ghosts of ancient jest,
And spread them e’en to him who guards the door ;
I fear to meet the solemn Peter lest
He asks me why the Prince —you know the rest 1
VICTORIA.
CUTHBERT OUTPURSE.


MAP. _
v
liimiiiniHiii
If.
11l
11111 l
l»‘
llllllllllilll
ifl
Y-
%
mil
HIIIIU
m
'M
SJ
tIVI/t,
Illlllltllllllillllllllll
nun
iiiiiiiitiiimiiiiiiiii
1111111 1 Inin,,,
..1111111l ,
I"
Hllllllllliljlll!
Helping to Make Australia.
National Progress is reflected by growth of National
Industry.
A Nation is great as her resources are great.
The world war proved that the greater a nation s
assets the more formidable it is.
By supporting local industry you help make
Australia great.
Specify Meggitt Limited’s Linseed Oil, maintain
Australian Industry and obtain better service.
Meggitt Limited’s genuine and guaranteed pure
Linseed Oil is well tanked, runs smoothly off brush.
It possesses “body,” sets hard and gives superior
finish.
Insist on Meggitt Limited’s
Linseed OH, and do your part
in Australia’s Development.
Agents: — Messrs. Harrisons. Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
Messrs. R. S. Exton & Go., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane; Messrs. Wm. Adams
& Co., King Street Perth; Messrs. Clarkson, Ltd., Bundle Street, Adelaide;
Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart.
<£•
OUebot/onihebao
4ju*n*ntees quality
jCtrftitecL
HEAD OFFICE KING ST SYDNEY(^feParramatta)
&
‘Yhc boy on theboQ
f/uttMntees aualiaS
•immuur
pi
% w n mmu\
u’Yixl
UAV_


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Hotel
TARIFF \
Y 12'- pen Day
6 r 6 Beds. Breakfast
C.R.Kerr
PFOprirhoh
Swansfon 5\
A Melbourne k
King George W
4*
TH eTOP NOTCH "scotch
a safe: PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Searchlight”: Whilst travelling the road
near Kenthurst (N.S.W.) I saw a sight I shall
never forget. An old chap passed me humming
loudly. He carried an umbrella, and around its
edge a swarm of bees had settled. The old fellow
was a well-known apiarist of the district. He had
opened the umbrella in a shower of rain, and a
travelling swarm had taken up its quarters there.
Not wishing to lose the bees the old chap walked
10 miles with them on the umbrella, humming as
he went. He landed the bees all right, and I sup-
pose some of that hive’s progeny is in the Parra-
matta district to-dav.
* * * *
“H7H”: “W.R.P.’s” yarn (B. 29/4/'2O)
of the bloke who rode 100 “whistlers” in one day
gives me the barcoo. In far-western Queensland,
where you do get brumbies and rough horses, they
are considered soft snaps unless they can “spin”
and “buck back.” The straight-ahead prad, no
matter with how great a jar he hits the ground, is
a mere “rooter” or “pig-jumper.” Even if
“W.R.P.’s” horses came under the latter heading
the alleged feat is a physical impossibility. I have
seen seasoned breakers and horsemen of the calibre
of Jack Harvey, Squeaker Waest and Billy Waite
bleed at the nose and get very “wompy” inside after
riding two or three willing three-year-olds in quick
succession. But a brumby (no unbranded cove under
seven years old merits the term) is a grown horse,
and hits the ground much harder than a “green”
thing, and, being stronger, can keep it up with
greater persistence. I once timed an Albilbah (West-
ern Q.) three-year-old named Curate who had a
reputation for a long-distance performance. His
best was lmin. 23sec., and on the same run a din-
kum 11-year-old brumby called Battler went just
short of 21 minutes on his maiden effort. The bloke
that rode him —a breaker of 26 years’ experience—
couldn’t stand afterwards and swore I meant 2}
hours.
“Gouger”: Our North Queensland scrubs
just now are a butterfly-catcher’s paradise. Count-
less thousands of the fluffy beauties congregate on
the lower leaves of the scrub undergrowth. Mostly
large-sized, the rainbow-hued masses completely
cover the dull, green foliage. In rare spots,
where the sun’s dear rays beat down through
the tangled boughs into the gloom, the
myriads of fluttering beauties, their colors
scintillating, make a scene that transfixes the
most casual. What their business is, and
why they have come in such numbers at this
time of the year, I don’t know. A smaller
number of little brown moths are present,
and should a solitary one of these take a
cruise under the laden limbs, the big butter-
flies rise in a fluttering cloud to the higher branches,
only to descend again when the intruder has dis-
appeared into the gloom.
* * * *
“Iras”: I am the school-teacher at Lonely
Plains. I had a pile of official documents to fill in
and a red-ink famine was making my hair stand up
in fear of censure. (Red ink and red tape go hand
in hand.) I was reviewing the situation, when one
of my cherubs rushed madly out from the wilderness
of dead trees and mud. His legs looked horribly
gory and I was hurrying to do a first-aid act when
a snigger from behind the bushes reassured me.
“What is it?” I demanded. “Ink-weed, miss.” My
official life was saved! I crushed some of the dark red
berries, and the documents were despatched in their
full British glory.
* # * *
“Pick”: When securing his light refresh-
ments the Binghi prawn-fisher of the N.S.W. South
Coast takes less trouble than the northerner of his
race, whose methods “Corboyne” describes (B.
20/5/’2O). Perching himself on the sandbanks where
the prawns assemble on the seaside frontage of the
coastal lakes, he simply lights a small fire or torch,
and awaits the coming banquet. On dark nights the
crusty-backs leap yards at the flare, like moths
at a candle, and Binghi’s missus and kids have a
hurried time bagging them. When, however, the
sports of the tribe are prawning they use light
spears made of reeds with a barbed bone-point. On the
waters the projecting eyes of the prawns glow like
tiny lamps, and the expert spearsman rarely misses
that mark.
• # * •
“O. Blin”: Talking in Hogan's bar at
Fullup, Bill Stoat nominated his grand-dad for
the Old Age Stakes. “That’s a ’ardy ole
bloke for y’,” said Bill. “Born of the district’s
first settlers in 1836, ’e’s been through four reigns.”
At this Saunders deferred consideration of his lonely
glass in the corner to heap scorn on the information.
“I tell yer it’s true,” roared Stoat. “Y’ dunno
yer dates. He was in the reigns o’ William the
Fourth, Queen Victoria, Edward the Seventh —an’
now King George.” Saunders subsided with amaz-
ing suddenness. He looked bitterly at the unparal-
leled drought outside. “Oh, that all?” he said
sardonically to Stoat. “I thought y’ meant r-a-i-n-s.”
“ J.C.M.”: I had begun to think his tribe
had become extinct. But it isn’t. He lobbed in
by the Boulia mail, and for the first hour or so
just wandered round trying samples. After dark he
got into his stride. About 9 o’clock he hops out
in the street and beefs out this introduction: “I'm
Blue Bill, the from Boolooroo.” Then he
hurled a bag of challenges at the township. Seeing
no one had picked up his kid-glove, and thinking he
was slipping a few pots, he dashed back to the bar.
ARTS AND CRAFTS.
“Hello, Mac! Didn’t know you were a singer.”
“Well, it’s no’ that I am exactly. But tee-in’ that the wife’s paid for a term, and she’,
no’ very well this afternoon and canna tak her lesson, I did no’ like to he wastfu’
so I took it mesel’.”
A bit later, with the aid of some corks with bottles
stuck on them, he cleared the bar; also most of
the pub’s shelves. Bill was not seen after that till
next morning. Then he came tearing up the street,
no hat, bare legs, and shirt-tail cracking in the
breeze, heading for the store. He dived in there
and walked up to the young lady serving. “A pair
of pants, Miss 1” he said hoarsely. As the young
lady got an eye-full of Bill she gave a screech and
bolted, and the boss came along to attend to Bill.
He threw Bill over a pair and Bill dragged them
on. “How much?’’ Billasked. “Three quid,” replied
the philanthropist.
#• * * *
“Broncho”: I can tell “S.S.S.” and Bishop
White, too, where some of the flocks of sacred ibis
go. When the big floods are coming down the
Georgina River (W.Q.), the ibis qome also. When
the flood is at about its top at Glengyll, the birds
make on to t'|e ’lignum bushes which grow in the
largest swamp on the river just below the Cutta-
burra crossinj/. Here they flatten down the soft
twigs of the '’lignum and on them lay their eggs.
The swamp ifc about 15 miles by five, and every
bush has as many nests as the birds can crowd
in—io to 20 on a single bush. The young birds
stay in the nest till able to fly; then the whole
lot generally disappear till next flood.
“Parap”: What’s the matter with “Adel-
aide” (B. l/4/’2O) ? Roast alligator can’t be dis-
tinguished from pork, by either taste or smell. Pos-
sibly the trouble was that it was boiled, not roasted.
Anyhow, stick a fellow down to tinned stuff for six
months or so, then give him a lump of roasted ’gator
tail —to get its finest flavor have it roasted in a
camp-oven—and listen to what he says.
**' * *
“Fraoch” : I never found out the cause of
the argument, but it was being settled in the good
old 1 way when I arrived. It was ini Southern
Riverina, and the parties were a kookaburra and
a curlew. When I stepped through the ropes
about 15 rounds had gone, and both combatants
were hanging out the flag of distress. Still, the
mill was fierce, feathery and sprinkled with gore.
Mostly it was in-fighting and rough-up. A mixed
house sat round, criticising in excited tones, the
soldier-bird being ‘most enthusiastic. Two jacks on
a limb broke into chuckles occasionally. I decided
quickly on a draw, and collected ’em both (they
were too exhausted to fly) and took them home.
The following morning the curlew had skipped, but
the jack was there, toes up.
* •* * *
“Mirza”: Proximity to horseflesh often
brings chest troubles. The close connection between
circus proprietors and asthma which “0.K.” (B.
20/5/’2O) alleges to exist—-he cites the Wirths and
Dan Fitzgerald—is due to a hypersensitiveness
developed in response to the absorption of minute
quantities of foreign protein, e.g., horse dandruff.
Pollens have a similar effect, producing hay fever.
(Gradually-increasing subcutaneous inoculations of
the offending protein render the sufferer immune,
and 15 minims of adrenalin will settle the paroxysm
in a minute. P.S. —Never mind the half-guinea.
“Jim Carew” : On Monaro I recently saw
a three-year-old blind sheep-dog working a flock oi
sheep, and doing it well. This dog was bdm blind,
and has been on the station all his life. He mus-
ters sheep from any of the home paddocks and
brings them up to the shed unassisted, and in the
drafting-yard he is invaluable in keeping the sheep
moving up to the race. The only fault I could, find
with him was that, when working a big flock, he
worked very wide.
“Corrie”: Re egg-eating crows, I guess
we had a son of Satan here that would lick all
other hen-fruit pinchers out of the gam6. He knew
which chook was to lay each day, and if she did
not come to light early enough he’d round her up
to the nest and mount gluard over her till she had
done her duty. But latcly 'he exceeded the limit-
started whipping in the Saturday contributors on a
Tuesday. We had no growl coming whilst he left
us some, but when he started after the week’s issue
in advance we felt hurt, and decided that Kelly
must go. So Kelly was enticed into the fowl-
house and the door closed with a rope, the string-
operator being well hidden. Then, with the aid of
a couple of brooms and two bags, Kelly was c::l
lected, and after being painted a bright red was le.
go. We read in a Brisbane paper later: —
A meteor at a low altitude, travelling soul’
passed over the town at 9.30 p.m. last Saturday.
We only let Kelly go at 4.30 p.m. Fifteen hundred
miles in five hours! Gee, he’s hoppin’ it!
JUSTIFIED.
CUSTOMER: “Bit over the odds the way
you’ve pushed up the price of a haircut
and shave, isn’t it?”
HAIRDRESSER: “Well, yer see, what with the
high price of everything the gents, don’t
come in so often, and when they do they
all have got such terrible long faces that
there’s more hair to cut and more face
to shave!’
The grateful councillor and the dairy-
district comp, collide in Koo-wee-rup (Vic.) Sun:
Ladies and Gentlemen —As my term as one of
your Municipal Representatives expires in August, I
dosire to intimate that it is my intention not to
re-nominate. Thanking you for support during the 22
years I have held the teat as one of your representa-
tives. — I am, yours faithfully, W. C. Greaves.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE BUSHMAN IN THE TOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My neck is stiff from lengthy picture-gazing,
My feet are sore from walking on the stones,
And I have swallowed drinks that were amazing
To ease my aching bones.
At night my chest sets up a husky wheezing,
Rheumatics caught my arm the other day,
My e3 r es and nose are sore from constant sneezing;
I want to get away.
The people seem to watch me as I’m walking
From pub to pub or strolling round the town;
And others stop to listen while I’m talking.
And try to take me down.
My suit is tailor-made and neatly fitting,
My boots are new and stand me in a quid,
My fancy socks show nicely while I’m sitting.
I sport a guinea lid.
My hair was cut the day before I started.
1 keep it brushed and oiled and patted sleek;
Two little curls hang forward where it’s parted.
I’m shaving twice a week.
The crooks and spielers pick me out quite easy
And think in me they’ve found a country mug;
And in the parks the dead-beats, foul and greasy,
Come up and bite my lug.
The women of the streets look round and giggle,
The children making schoolwards stand and stare.
My collar’s broken loose and seems to wriggle
Upwards to meet my hair.
There’s times when I feel sad and rather sorry
To see an old bush horse and know the brand —
Swelled legged, anil harnessed to a heavy lorry,
Yet hardly fit to stand.
THE PERFECT GENTLEMAN.
CARELESS CYCLIST: “Sorry!”
I wonder if, sometimes, he- has a craving
To go to lonely places that we know,
Or ramble where the Mitchell grass is waving >
And. shady myalls grow.
The best thing I have seen about the city
Is yarded at a place they call the Zoo;
It filled me up with friendliness and pity—•
It was the kangaroo.
And there were birds locked up in wire-netting,
And snakes and things that might as well be dead;
I saw the ever-restless dingo fretting,
And stroked the brolga’s head.
The people don’t look pleased when it is raining,
And seem to be afraid of getting wet;
They do not know the loss, or what they’re gaining—
They’ll realise it yet.
I’ve seen the people out at Manly swimming;
A sight to cure the sorest kind of eyes—
Plump girls and old fat women lightly skimming,
Like swallows chasing flies.
I’ve often heard that distant fields are greenest,
But true or otherwise I do not know;
I’m satisfied the bush is far the cleanest.
Back there I want to go.
N.s.w.
JIM GRAHAME.
“Bill Bowyang”: A sealed bottle thrown
up by the tide always attracts my attention. The
other day I was strolling along a N.Q. beach when
I noticed a bottle with a circle of red cloth tied
around it lying in a narrow crevice far below me.
It took 15 minutes to climb down to where it lay
and on two occasions I slipped on the oyster-covered
rocks and cut my legs. There was a folded sheet of
paper inside the bottle and that took some getting,
too. At last I broke the container, and the message
was revealed: “Whoever finds this bottle will also
find all the beer gone.”


Why Do Woolgrowers Expect Extraordinary Service from
Iwopefo Shearing Machinery?
For the Same Reason as You Expect to Find Fire Where There is Smoke!
Every man is more or less familiar with what is going along in his own line, and it is common
knowledge among woolgrowers to-day that the largest contractors in the field are using Cooper Hand-
pieces exclusively in their contracts. Large stations are fitting their Overhead Gear of other makes
with Cooper Air-cooled Handpieces.
The praise of Cooper machinery has passed from shearer to shearer throughout Australia. It is common
knowledge that Cooper Machines have shorn through hard and sandy sheep where other Machines
have refused to go.
There Must Be Something Back of All This Smoke.
Any Machine to gain the reputation and enthusiastic support of wool-
growers, contractors and shearers alike, which the Cooper Machine has
gained during the past few years, must be an unusual machine. Cooper
Machines are unusual machines.
The Cooper Improved Belt-driven Shearing Machine
is so thoroughly practical and so simple in construction that it imme-
diately commends itself to everyone. Gives a silent, smooth positive
drive right along, and when once up it requires no further attention.
®The Cooper “Little Wonder”
is pronounced a “wonder” by all who have used it. Strong, practical,
convenient. PRICE: £B4 Portable; £72 Stationary.
The Famous Cooper Air-cooled Handpiece
is now being fitted on all makes of overhead gear in both old and new shear-
ing sheds throughout Australia. Costs less to buy and less to operate than
any other handpiece oh the market.
When You Instal Cooper Shearing Machinery You Are Assured of Getting Unusual
Service at an Unusual Cost. Write To-day for Illustrated Pamphlet Explaining Why.
•:
?
Cooper Engineering Co. Ltd.,
134 Sussex Street, Sydney.
480 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Clark” & Fauset. Ltd., Brisbane; N. Z. Loan & M. A. Co., Ltd., Rockhampton, Hughenden, Townsville;
Aust. Imp. & H. F. Co. Adelaide; G. P. Harris Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Perth.
&
£
<9
\
<t-
SYDNEY:
At
c
HERE IS A DELIGHTFUL CHOICE
OF PERFECT PLAYER PIANOS.
CHOSEN by us after years of exhaustive inquiries throughout the World’s markets, into construction, tonal
quality and climate durability, etc., our 67 years’ experience as tone specialists and our leading position
in the music world enable us to place these instruments before you.
BEHNING,
E S T E Y,
PLAYOTONE,
REGAL,
The Most Perfect Player Obtainable.
Made by the World-famous ESTEY Co.
A Delightful Mellow Tone.
Possesses a Sweet, Lasting Tone.
AUTOTONE,
CHRISTMAN,
LAFFARGUE,
VICTOR,
The Product of 75 Years Piano Construction.
Noted for Perfection of Construction.
A Handsome Upright Grand Player.
Australia’s Most Popular Instrument.
ALL OUR PLAYER PIANOS POSSESS THE FOLLOWING ESSENTIAL FEATURES.—
CLIMATE-PROOF TUBING. AUTOMATIC EXPRESSION, TRANSPOSING DEVICE,
PHRASING LEVERS. EASY PEDALLING SYSTEM. GRADUATED LEVERS
(For tone control).
The Purchase of one of these Instruments carries with it Paling’s Reputation for Fair Dealing, Service and
Attention that has made their name a household word in Australia.
At your first opportunity come to our Showrooms, and we will be glad to demonstrate these
various Player Pianos to you; or write for our illustrated Art Catalogue and Price List, showing
full Particulars of Our Easy Payment System.
W.
H. PALING & CO. LTD.
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
a
o
o
o
<
V
<s>
VJ.
o
$


Why let Trustees* Commission Consume Your Estate?
PERMANENT
Trustee Company of N.S.W. Ltd.
The Company does not make Corpus Commission charge till after estate becomes distributable.
This practice (unique to the Permanent Trustee Company) very often results in a saving of income sufficient
to defray the charge.
The full advantages to be derived from constituting the Company your
TRUSTEE EXECUTOR ATTORNEY AGENT
are explained in a handsome new Booklet which will be forwarded you on request.
Ensure permanence, security and strength in your trustee by appointing the Company to act in that capacity.
J. W. Barnes, Assistant Manager. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
25 O’CONNELL S TREET, SYDNEY.
“Dolphin” tlijjows a boomerang from
Torres Strait to ancient Egypt:—
Whether the Australian boomerang was derived
from the somewhat similar weapon used in ancient
Egypt or was evolved independently is doubtful. But
Elliot. Smith, formerly of Sydney and now of Man-
chester Uni., who has of late years largely switched
off from anatomy and biology to Egyptology, makes
out a very strong case for the Egyptian origin of the
mummification methods employed on the islands of
Torres Strait. He also contends that the Torres
Strait customs had a good deal of influence on the
methods of disposing of the dead adopted in Aus-
tralia, where, by the way, Sir George Grey picked
up an aboriginal mummy near Adelaide in 1845 and
sent it to the Royal College of Surgeons. When
Elliot Smith examined a Torres Strait mummy in
the Macleay Museum at Sydney Uni. he was con-
vinced, from his knowledge of the technical details
of the processes used in mummification in ancient
Egypt, that the practices were derived from Egypt,
and, moreover, that the cultural wave which carried
them to Torres Strait did not start on its course
before the 9th century b.c. at the earliest. The
THE JOKE AS NATURE MADE IT.
FRIEND ( looking at returned caricature) :
“So the caricature of old Bigbeak was
not funny enough for their paper?”
CARICATURIST: “That’s it. They are going
to publish his photograph instead .”
islanders used some complicated and curious methods
of removing the brain and dealing with the body—
methods which were not invented in Egypt until the
XXlst dynasty. Certain improvements 'devised later
did not reach the Strait. Apart from the actual
embalming Elliot Smith contends that the funeral
customs of the natives of Murray Island and of ether
islands in the Strait show the clearest evidence of
Egyptian origin, and he scoffs at the idea that the
local inhabitants invented these things on their own.
His theory is that centuries before the Christian
era waves of immigration and other, influences
carried what he called the “heliolithic” culture
evolved in Egypt and the neighboring regions along
the coasts of Arabia, Southern India and Farther
India, amongst the islands of the Malay Archipelago,
through Torres Strait, and eventually out across the
Pacific Islands to the west coast of the Americas,
North and South. It is a good, spacious theory,
anyway.
Gouger”: Somebody wants to know how
to tell alluvial tin when you’ve got it. Well, me
lad » the best test is its weight. Practically every
impurity will wash out of the dish and leave the
tin behind. Gold and osmiridium will remain. But
if a tin-seratcher drops across either of these two
he refuses to believe that a curse is upon him.
Ckdor is a fair guide. Tin is generally grey or
SAY AU REVOIR, BUT NOT GOOD-BYE.
POLICE MAGISTRATE : “I hope I shall riot see you before me again."
OLD OFFENDER: “Wot! You're not chuckin’ yer job, are yer?”
black, but it occurs at times in all the colors of
the rainbow. The various iron impurities, tour-
maline, etc., are also black, but they are lighter
in weight than alluvial tin. Absolutely the: best
possible test for tin is to get into a claim and
work it; then send a parpel to the tin-buyer.
You’ll soon know whether you’re mining the genuine
article or not. After a little practical experience a
man will learn to tell genuine tin at a glance. But
don’t get into a pick-and-shovel claim, or these days
you’ll starve. Find a claim which can be worked
by water pressure, put on a hydraulic plant, and you
stand a chance of making a decent thing.
* * * *
“Zanthus”: Heavy rain fell recently along
the East-West line, and there have been sheets of
water even in the hollows on the Nullarbor Plain.
Marvellous is the way ducks and other water-birds
appear out of nowhere in places where, before the
rain, there was no surface water for hundreds of
miles. Jhst beyond Tarcoola and 270 miles from
Port Augusta there is a good big hollow into which
the rains put two or three feet of water. Within
48 hours the ducks were there attending to business.
Presumably the water brings to light insects and
things that have been lying doggo since the last fall.
“Lignite”: An Abo. writer speaks of a
tarantula and of crushing it under his foot. There
is no such creature as a tarantula in Australia.
It is a very venomous insect of the Northern Hemi-
sphere—prevails in the south of Europe, and in
appearance is like our triantelope. But the latter
is non-venomous and very useful in clearing a
room of flies and other troublesome insects, and
is often for that purpose taken from room to room.
To crush one underfoot is both stupid and cruel.
“Veronal”: Although the fresh-water cat-
fish (“jew-fish”), the stickleback and certain other
kinds form nests for their eggs and watch by them
till they incubate, fishes as a rule manifest no
regard either for their offspring or for each other —-
except in the form of bait. But according to Du
Bartas, an old poet quoted by Walton, the female
mullet goes nap on her (temporary) spouse. , He
says:—-
But for chaste love the mullet hath no peer;
For if the fisher hath surprised her pheer [mate],
As mad with woe to shore she followeth,
Prest to consort with him both in life and death.
Du Bartas may have had the red mullet, or goat-
fish, in his mind’s eye. But if he meant the sea- or
sand-mullet, this fish shows no more affection for
its mate than a blue-pointer shark does. Yet even
these fish at spawning and milting-time may become
spoony after a fashion, as black and other deadly
snakes do in their mating season.
* » * *
“Baree” : Why do dogs refuse to eat ban-
dicoot, raw or cooked, except as a last resource ?
Any dog will kill a bandicoot on sight, but he has
got to be dying of hunger before he will eat the
beastie. Whaffor? The flesh is good—superior, in
my opinion, to fowl; and very few folk, black,
white or brindle, will refuse a second helping of
young bandicoot, stuffed and roasted —in a camp-
oven for preference—with spuds and onions around
him.
“Papua”: In the days when the mines
were going strong Woodlark Island was the stamp-
ing-ground of some typical hard-case Australians,
Every night a two-up school raged on the only bit
of level ground in the hamlet of Kulamadau. The
local parson considered it his duty to rake in all
hands every Sunday morning for service, and as
he was a good sort ftvho attended to the
miners’ bodies as well as their souls, the men cheer-
fully heard the call to worship. One morning I
attended church on the store-verandah, to find a
personally-conducted riot in progress: four sepa-
rate fights were going on while the rest of the
congregation sang “Onward, Christian -Soldiers.”
The parson went right ahead with his sermon. One
of the boys took up a collection, which, in the
circumstances, the parson declined. “Spare me
days!” exclaimed the deacon. “You won’t take it!
Righto! There’s two drinks a head all round!
Come on, blokes!” And the boys dispersed to the
bar to absorb the offertory.
* * * *
“Belmont” : To “get the sun” on a cloudy
day pull out into the open and rest a knife-blade
(the smaller the better) perpendicularly upon the
thumb-nail. Then turn round slowly until the blade
throws a shadow on the nail. Even if you only
know the time approximately you can get a good
enough idea of the points of the compass to pre-
vent yourself from being badly bushed.
“Jim Carew” : We seldom hear nowadays
of “Murrumbidgee jam”—brown sugar made into a
thick paste by mixing it with cold tea. It doesn’t
sound much, but I can assure any of the uninitiated
that it is a great blessing when your tucker-bag
contains nothing but cold damper. It was also well
known as Whalers’ Delight.
* -* * *
“Zanthus”: The Commonwealth has
brought the three R’s —rabbits, railways and rum —
to the abos. who live along the East-West line.
Rabbits have spread across the 1060
miles of country through which the
line runs, and in fair seasons are the
main source of Binghi’s food supplies.
As to the railway, the abos. fully
appreciate the benefit of rapid and
easy travel. Tribes from near Kal-
goorlie train it to Goldea, 600 miles
east, for tribal ceremonies when they
get a chance, and abos. from the
S. Australian side run over to the
West. When the privilege of free
travelling was cut off they were fly
enough to “beat” it by stealing rides.
Since the railway came there has been
a great jumbling and mixing of tribes.
East and West have been brought
together, and blacks from the Mus-
grave Ranges have foregathered with those from the
coast of the Bight. All told they are a miserable
lot.
“D.F.”: According to Mrs. Rowan, the
treasure found on the Barrier Reef by some of
Frank Jardine’s pearlers in 1890 or thereabouts
amounted to 6000 oz. of silver and silver coins, and
the coins were mostly Mexican dollars ranging from
1725 to 1820. This puts out of court any Spanish-
galleon theory. The vessels which went from Syd-
ney to Canton a century or so ago used to carry
cash to pay for the tea and other China stuff which
they brought back, and dollars were then the com-
monest currency in Australia. No doubt this
treasure came from some such trader wrecked in the
’twenties.
“Hannibal”: Recent heavy weather along
the N. S. Wales North Coast shifted large quan-
tities of loose sand near Fingal lighthouse (Tweed
Heads) and laid open countless skeletons and bones
of aboriginals. It was evidently an old burying-
ground of Binghi’s. One shinbone was almost as
long as a present-day abo.’s leg from the foot right
up to the thigh. Abo. remains discovered in the
Gull country point to seven-footers having been
common also in those parts, and they must have
been 50in. round the chest.
“Belmont”: Know an old man in the
Bathurst district who, though he is nearly 70, has a
complete set of teeth. As soon as a tooth becomes
loose or starts to decay he pulls it out, and in a
month or so a new one that he doesn’t have to pay
for puts in an appearance.
“Chip”: The boss was afraid we would
break away to the nearest snake-juice factory before
the job was done, and offered to order materials for
a real good Christmas in camp if all hands would
promise to stay for another month. We agreed,
and with the next load of horse-feed there arrived
a hogshead of hops and a case of 28 o.p. rum. All
hands had worked overtime to have four days ofT at
Christmas. The picnic started on the hops, and
perfect happiness reigned. On the fourth morning
one of the lads was observed poking bananas into
the now empty cask through the bunghole. “What
do you think you are doing?” exclaimed the boss.
The victim shakily replied: “Alec’s in the
barrel. He’s had nothing for three weeks, an’ I’ve
nothin’ but • bananas to give him.” Then he
broke down. The boss took him up tenderly and
poured a stiffener 0f,28 o.p. into him; and in
five minutes he slept like a child. It was a glorious
Christmas, and cost us no more than a week’s
tucker.
* * * *
“H.C.L.”: I was travelling from Skillion
Flat to Willawarrin by van with a pair of young
horses. Just after leaving the Flat a storm came
tearing after us, and I decided to give it a fly.
Hlime, I could hear the rain pelting behind; but
we were going hellferleather, scenery flashing by in
a blur, and I nearly ran into Jack O’Leary’s bar at
Willawarrin before I knew where I was. By then
the rain had stopped. Never knew how close the
storm had gone to catching us till I saw the bucket
that was swinging on the tail of the van. Swelpme,
it was full of rain-water!
* * * *
“Guy Rope”: A Bulletin mention of
Bessie Flowers reminds me of a gin on the Rich-
mond River who was the best writer in the whole
school in my dad’s time. I recently gave her a
pencil and paper. “You write for me, Mary?” I
asked. “Finish writem,” said Mary, shaking her
head. She could not even write her own name!
* * * »
“Lignite”: There was among some of the
N.S.W. North Coast tribes of aboriginals a tradi-
tion of the Deluge of Scripture. The Great Spirit
ordered them to take refuge on a high mountain
with some of all animals, and if the water was rising
over the mountain to call to the Great Spirit and
he would raise the mountain higher. When the
water receded and they came down there was no
vegetation of any sort; all had been swept away,
only the bare rocks remaining.
IN THE DAYS OF H.C.L.
THE PARSSON: “For the small quantity of
food I am about to receive in return for
my two-and-sixpence the Lord try to
make me truly thankful.”
“The Shocked Curate”: Once in the bad
old days a recruiting vessel dropped anchor off a
village near a newly-opened mission station. The
boats went ashore, and a bevy of the local Flossies
accepted a pressing invitation to go on board. Just
as one of the sable charmers was stepping into the
boat a villager ran up shouting: “You no take that
fella Mary along schooner. He no belong altogether.
He belong Bishop!”
THE HINT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The manager at Cooramine was Tommy Bone, a long,
Loose-limbed Australian. You couldn’t put him
wrong
Upon a horse or after sheep, with cattle or with
crops.
He ran and swam and wrestled, and was handy with his
props.
Bob Trueman’s daughter Isabel had gained the heart
of Bone.
To win her favor at the Show he strove to stand
alone.
He took the jumps on Pretty Dick, his was the
finest hack,
He shore his sheep in quickest time, his collie beat
the pack.
But Isabel still showed disdain, and vainly Tommy
wooed.
She heard not when he sang to her, she lied when
he pursued;
And finally poor Bone gave up, the sorest rascal yet,
And went to work at Minalong, determined to forget.
Then came the fickle Isabel to stay at Minalong.
’Twas she who did the wooing now; ’twas she who
sang the song.
But Tommy didn’t listen, or he couldn’t under-
stand.
Belle left for Cooramine, the maddest maiden in
the land.
Came a letter some days later from a lawyer-chap,
and Bone
Fled after Isabel, and she was his and his alone.
“Why threats of breach of promise?” She gave
kisses without stint.
“You wouldn’t see I loved you, dear—/ thought I’d
drop a hint l”
VICTORIA.
SNELL.
“Bill Bowyang”: Binghi in the vicinity
of the Roper River (N.T.) brings his love-charm
into use if he fails to attract the attentions of a
favored lubra by more honorable methods. The
charm is generally made from a coolibah-root, and
when swung around the head it emits a droning
sound. After the lubra has wrapped herself in
her ’possum rug, Binghi will disturb the stillness
of night with his charm, and the lubra feels her-
self becoming more and more enamored with the
gay buck. Finally she will creep from her gunyah
and listen to Binghi’s sweet nothings under a distant
gum-tree. I had one of these charms, and, stand-
ing under the window of the barmaid’s bedroom at
Grogan’s pub, began to swing it around my head.
It was well for me that she was a rotten shot.


r
we
•L • • <
State Express cigarettes raised the
standard of cigarette quality—a standard
not reached to this day by any other.
SrSTE(HPRESS
CIGARETTES
N 9333 20 ” 1/6
THE FAMOUS RED PACKET
1
%
%
tr
r
xn
MR
V
'O
ft*
o>
©°
O'
<dL
O
o
LARGE SIZE
mm mm
til
m
mmtim


LUX!
mmuu
mi]
l' nl l m 11 1 1 111 11 |
lilil/y
\\
C/ *csr
rf? Oo
stec
CO'- 0
54SS
CROUP
id.
EVERY Drop of
“Heame’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
W. G. Kearne & Co,
Ltd.,
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street. SYDNEY.
V \
A Plain
Fact!
these out together with the poetry only the
lecture-promoters and editors can explain.
To say that the poet is not a critic and
rice '-ersa is not to throw roses or mud at
either. Really it is a harmless paraphrase
of Aristotle, who in his turn cannot take
any credit for a theory which has existed
since the birth of thought and its expres-
sion. Another of the troubles is that there
is too much talk, Aristotleian and otherwise.
Poetry is in craft the performance of a series
of miracles —with this difference from the
mediaeval meaning of the word : that unless
the miracle conform to the musical rules it
is no miracle. In that case only God can
criticise it conclusively.
Furthermore, poetry is the musical con-
centration of prose. Each song has the im-
press of the poet’s personality upon it,
which lifts it beyond criticism whether the
song be worthy or unworthy. Not only do
the words in the song place themselves in
balance and grace, but their perfection ex-
presses the poet’s thoughts more fully and
strongly than prose of the same length or
of twice the length. Yeats has it: —
Rose of all Roses, Rose of all the World!
You, too, have come where the dim tides are hurled
Upon the wharves of sorrow, and heard ring
The bell that calls us on, the sweet, far thing.
Beauty grown sad with its eternity
Made you of us, and of the dim grey sea.
Our long ships loiise thought-woven sails and wait,
For God has bid them share an equal fate;
And when at last defeated in His wars
They have gone down under the same white stars,
We shall no longer hear the little cry
Of our sad hearts that may not live nor die.
That describes the situation exactly so far
as I am concerned. Equally for me it pre-
cludes criticism of anything but technique.
Words are every man’s business; hence
the millions of critics and their methods. On
one boundary there are text-books, and on
the other there are discourses, amusing and
instructive; but between there is poetry,
which is No Man’s Land save for the in-
habitants, who are not and cannot be critics.
H. L.
The Original Secession
The story of the secession of the Northern
Rivers District after its revolt against the
first really centralised metropolis of which
we have much knowledge is told in an old
volume written in Hebrew. It is an ancient
tale but cause and effect remain the same,
and fools are similar and bigots don’t alter.
The period when Jerusalem was the a’dmin-
istrative centre of all Hebrewdom lasted
about 73 years. (Sydney has been the admin-
istrative centre of N. S. Wales under Par-
liamentary Government for 64 years.) All
that time centralisation was growing as it
does in Australia. David commenced the
trouble by fixing the capital (previously
movable) at the old .Tebusite town in the
south-east (Sydney is in the south-easton
his own sole authority. The place was in
bis own State, and in a sterile land of lime-
stone hills which, viewed from the alleged
site of the Ascension, look like a drove of
monstrous white skulls stretching all the
way to the Dead Sea. David aggravated the
case by beginning the process of centralising
religion when he removed all the portable
apparatus of worship to Jebusitetown. And
in his last days he embittered the Northern
Rivera by taking from the people the only
vote which apparently existed then—that of
the Assembly of the Tribes at the election
of a new king. It was a new right, there
having been only two kings so far, and it
was greatly prized. Solomon’s appointment
was rushed in the' capital amid the acclama-
tions of the mob, and the Northern Rivers
never got over it.
Solomon, considering tfie means at his dis-
posal, was perhaps the boss centraliser of
history. His Public Works policy was con-
centrated on the capital and its barren .sur-
roundings. He erected the fabulous temple
at Jerusalem and put the ark in it as a
sign of religious fixity. If the building repre-
sented even a tenth of the wealth ascribed
to it or the lies told about it he must have
stripped the fertile North pretty bare with
his exactions to make this St. Peter’s in
a bare land. (It was the collecting of money
in Germany for St. Peter’s which started
Martin Luther on his notable religious seces-
sion movement in the North.) Certainly the
South —consisting of Philistine land to west-
ward, and the Wilderness of Judah (which
is still a wilderness) to eastward, and a
fairly good strip in the middle, finishing up
southerly with the desert where the tribe
of Simeon had disappeared—was never much
of a revenue-yielding proposition. Then
Solomon built his own palace at Jerusalem
and was 13 years doing it, so it was under-
stood that the monarch was also fixed and
centralised instead of carrying the kingship
around in his tent or on his saddle as Saul
did. He built lavish accommodation for the
priests, and they settled dbwn and ceased
from roving. After that the prophets did
any wandering ministry that was done —
did it in a sort of unauthorised fashion.
In fact, it apparently came to be under-
stood that no one could pray officially and
orthodoxly except at the capital: the people
had to come to the centralised priests, and
the people of the Northern Rivers had far
to travel. When Jeroboam set up a State
of his own he had to improvise places of
worship—declared “black” by the priests—
to prevent his subjects going to a foreign
city to worship and paying much Peter’s
pence there and being led away from their
allegiance. lie felt, in fact, that if a French-
man had to go to Germany to pray, the
Republic would be at a disadvantage.
Solomon died leaving a son who had been
born and brought up in the capital and
amid its traditions, and whose council of
young men were all of the metropolitan
school. So the people of the big (compara-
tively big) North broke away. They cut
the only link when they fell with bricks
on the revenue-man who came from Sydney
-—that is to say, Jerusalem—to collect taxes
along the Northern Rivers. In their seces-
sion they took with them most of the sea-
coast, the only two fresh-water lakes with
fish in them, almost the whole of the Jor-
dan (which is navigable for small craft,
though not so good as the Clarence), Israel’s
share (the south bank) of the Leonites
(also slightly navigable), and every other
stream that counted. They are even accused
of taking the brook Jabbok, and that was
overdoing things. To the city in the South
which had annexed the whole civil and reli-
gious government were left the Temple and
the Dead or Briny Sea and anything unde-
fined it could capture in the desert as far
as Broken Hill and further.
Judah was the home and seat of idolatry
and strange worships for centuries after that.
In fact, there was often more mixed idolatry
than Temple worship, and the builder of the
Temple u r as an idolator himself. The priests
were so casual that they mislaid the books
of their own faith, which were recovered
amid much astonishment in the last days of
the monarchy. But those priests or their
successors never forgave the first elected,
and also divinely-appointed, king of the
Northern Rivers, because his mild form of
paganism—the golden calves at Bethel and
Dan which were boundary marks of his
kingdom—intercepted the revenues of the
big temple and the monasteries of priests
at the old capital. And they hated him
equally for his piety because he appointed
priests of the old faith from outside their
union. So they regularly described him as
“Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who made
Israel to sin.” They would probably have
called him “Jerob'oam, the son of Dingbat,”
if that word of scorn had been known then.
And the Jerusalem people were so wild about
the secession that 1000 years later, when
Jeroboam’s idols were dust —the Jerusalem
idols lasted longer than Jeroboam’s—and the
Samaritans were devoted to the old faith
and had become Temple-builders themselves,
the remnant down Smith didn’t speak to the
people of the Northern Rivers. It was a
hatred that never let up. The language of
the Sydney Freetrade papers about Victoria
when its secession was still fresh wasn’t
a circumstance to it.
That is the tale or foreshadowing or sym-
bol of the Secession of the Northern Rivers.
SOLOMON MALAPROP.
"Britain ”
The name “Britain,” which has grown to
be so much bigger than “England,” has been
traced to an Iberian root. It will not fit
in with anything to be found in Greek,
Latin, Celtic or the Teutonic languages, but
has a lot of companion place-names in old
Spain—names belonging to a language of
non-European origin. In these names “itan”
means a place, a country. Compare Mauri-
tania, Lusitania, Britania. So that “Britan”
—the original word heard in Spain which
the Romans Latinised—is the place of “Br.”
Who or what was “Br”?
The only likely name of great importance
in Celtic literature is that of the Danaan
god Brian. Some of the Irish gods can be
traced in Britain and on the continent of
Europe. Thus Lugh—the companion in arms
of Brian—remains in Ludgate and possibly
in the name of London itself. Lir, another
important deity, remains in Leicester —
anciently Lircastra. What more likely than
that Britain, first known to the people of
Italy through the Iberians, was called Brian-
itan—the place or land of Brian? It is
only a conjecture, but it might stand until
someone can better the guess. The O’Briens,
once kings of North Munster and later earls
of Thomond, had no direct connection with
the deity of similar name, though the big-
gest king of Ireland in Christian times was
his namesake. Still, it would be remarkable
if it could be proved that the very name of
the so-called empire which holds Ireland as
a rather unwilling partner is as Irish as
the stones of New Grange—New Grange,-
the oldest thing in Ireland, having itself an
essentially English name.
D. MACULLADH.
The Greek, the Arab and the
Books Between
When the first great wave of Islam swept
over the eastern portion of the Hellenised
world its success was due less to its fighting
quality than to its honesty. The Greek was
a liar and a trickster, the Arab a straight-
forward person. Nearly all the Greek cities
were betrayed by their chief officials; and
the citizens did not greatly object, because
the followers of the Prophet were milder in
their rule and juster in their dealings than
the Greek-speakers whom they replaced.
This fact requires to be re-emphasised in
these days, when Islam has been misrepre-
sented by 500 years of slipshod and mur-
derous Ottoman rule. The destruction of the
great library at Alexandria was the out-
standing literary calamity of the Mohamme-
dan advance; but this was no mad work of
religious fanatics. It was the deliberate
and well-reasoned act of the new conquerors.
In their eyes the literature of the Greeks
stood for all that made the Greek contemp-
tible, for all his supine shallowness and
tricky unreliability. Arab civilisation was
honest; Greek civilisation was a fraud.
Therefore the literature which made Greek
civilisation possible and gave it permanence
must go. Curiously enough, the crusaders
who took Constantinople many centuries
later held exactly the same view of the
Greek character, so the act of the vanguard
of Islam can be understood if it cannot be
condoned.
Yet what a loss was there! Most of
Sappho, a great deal of Orpheus, and who
knows what of those subtle threads of oldest
tradition from which history before his-
tory is built perished in the flames. Ptolemy
11. had set 70 scholars to translate the
Hebrew Scriptures into Greek ; yet the Heb-
rew Scriptures were at that time little more
significant than other Eastern writings—
only the growth of Christianity gave them
their importance. How many more such
works were in Alexandria? But for Mahomet
we should probably know how the Pyramids
were built and how the keystone was placed
in the high arch nt Bahlbec. Perhaps we
should know also of other libraries burned
before the march of other civilisations far
back before the pyramids were thought of.
Very likely a surer tradition of Atlantis than
that found in Plato was there; very likely
a description of Britain older than that °-
Cmsar. In the broad human sense t e oui -
ing of the library at Alexandria was a. Dip-
ger loss than the fall of Rome. It .Luc
had only invented a printing press ms eat
of confining himself to abstract aigum
about angles and triangles, 1 tolemy 11. mig
stand out even to-day as the greatest bene ac-
tor of the race. he tried , bu
Arab contempt for the Greek sent ins big
effort up in a whiff of smoke.
A Satchel of Books
Berringer of Bandeir, by Sydney C. Grier
(Blackwood, Edinburgh). A rattling gqod
story. Berringer of Bandeir had formed a
monarchy of his own somewhere in the
Malay Islands very much after the fashion
of that established by Rajah Brooke. His
son, who has been brought up in England,
is afraid to go out and take up his father’s
work. He dreads his own supposed lack of
physical courage, but in the end more than
makes good. The book is full of stirring
adventure; and, what is unusual in a tale
of the kind, its characters are excellently
drawn.
Comment is absent from General Harry
Chauvel’s short history of the Light Horse
campaigns in Egypt and Palestine, but
Chauvel is palpably of the same mind as his
troopers regarding Feisal’s Arabs. He men-;
tions that the operations east of the Jordan
in April, 1918, were undertaken “at the re-
quest of the Beni Sakr tribe, who be-
longed to the district and had thrown
in their lot with the Hedjaz Arabs. The
Beni Sakr stated that they had 7000 men con-
centrated, and promised to co-operate,” but
when the Australians dashed across the Jor-
dan and took Es Salt, “the Arabs vanished
into space,” surrendering the one secure line
of retreat to the Turks, and exposing the
Australian Mounted Division to the danger,
of being cut off. By hard fighting the Divi-
sion extricated itself and re-crossed the Jor-
dan with 900 prisoners—and that was when
an exasperated trooper offered to fight the
whole of Feisal’s army, one after another.
Politicians on the Warpath is by L. J.
Maxse, of the National Review, and he
commands respect because he saw the Great
War far ahead, and preached the doctrine
of an Anglo-Fran co-Russian alliance which
would decree an all-round reduction of arma-
ments, and make it an ultimatum, and fall
on the Hun before he was quite ready if
he refused. Maxse’s new book, dedicated to
W. M. Hughes, goes over a good deal of old
ground, but it includes one little-known item
—that the family of placemen who were
accustomed to divide the portfolios didn’t
want Kitchener as Minister for War. In
fact, when Asquith resigned the War port-
folio Haldane drifted into the job and Kit-
chener was ordered back to Egypt to be out
of the way. The roar of the press caused
him to be stopped at the railway station.
Maxse is also refreshing about Woodrow
Wilson and the jest by which this self-
appointed ambassador of a defeated party
forced an unsatisfactory peace treaty and a
futile League 'of Nations on the Allies on
the ground that the IJ.S. demanded them
and would have no other; whereupon the
U.S., alone among the nations, refused both
of them. It is a case of the grotesque infant
—the baby Quasimodo —whom everybody has
to support save its own father. But any-
thing was possible with the impossible Presi-
dent who, after traversing the ruined lands,
told the pressmen of Paris, “Still I have
forgiven the Germans”—just as if Rheims
and Louvain were his to forgive. Not in
half a century will the world forgive the
IJ.S. for President Pudd’nhead Wilson.
(National Review, London.)
Motionismj or the World's True Religion,
by E. J. M. Morris (described as a fellow
of Edinburgh College of Surgeons), sets
forth the discovery and marvellous proper-
ties of Motionkey, a new frill of the soul.
The general bearing seems to be that every-
thing has two identities —itself when Ave
are there and itself when we aren’t there—
and that they are different. Says Morris
of “a typical London suburbanite”: “He
would suspect you of drunkenness or insan-
ity if you informed him that the rose he
sees on his tree is not the same rose Avhen
he takes his eye from off it.” Also “the
yellow ghost of an orange while present
forces us to see and acknowledge its exist-
ence, but the moment it vanishes it ceases to
worry us,” and “the non-ego in its visible
form is the imminent negative.” He is of
opinion that if Motionkey had been known
earlier there would have been no war. A book
of this sort creates wonderment as to whether
a fog can go a trifle mad or a dark lantern
take more liquor than is good for it. (Cax-
ton Press, London).
The Inky Way
Seven years ago William Somerville, then
of the Sydney Telegraph, decided that the
land was best. Now he has handed his
farm over to his son and swung back into
the inky way, taking over the Wagga Adver-
tiser. A Somerville son was killed at the
Front, right on the end of things.
Rhoda Broughton, just dead in England,
had lived a little too long for her literary
repute. As with so many others, nothing
she had written for the last 20 years need
be troubled about; but as a keen, witty
delineator of English life under Victoria she
earned the high praise of Andrew Lang and
other sound critics. It is still worth the
while of anyone interested in good fiction
to turn up “Joan” or “Belinda.” They are
the easiest of reading; and they give a vivid
picture of the day-before-yesterday.
Ralph Stock, who knocks out a comfortable
living writing for English and American
magazines, has gone up to have a look round
the Northern Territory and will push off from
Australia again in September. He is full of
regrets for the 47-foot Norwegian-built life-
boat in which he, his sister and another
adventurous amateur mariner sailed from
England to Tonga, wffiere an offer too
handsome to be resisted was made for the
craft. Stock is going to buy another just
like it in Norway, “where they.still build
boats honestly”; then he and his sister will
make for Algiers, “where there is cheap liv-
ing and perpetual sunshine and England is
only three days away at a rust.” A jollv
English colony makes life very well worth
living in Algiers.


«S
&
!R
SB
s 1
m
m
DCtts
ion
N
°bber syste*"
a
&
SSateo
A
A
r\
x
X
)
\
'■zm
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiii
iiiiniv
u
11I1U1II
lIIIIH
m
k l
f
V,
a
K
-
•!
m
V
iinnwiiiii»HnninniumiiiiiiHiiimuiiniimiimiii
iiiiiimiiiiiiiiHiiniininiminmnmimii
Choose DOMINIONS always
FOR they are worthy of
the trust you place in
them. You may know they
are always the same —
long wearing, easy riding,
remarkably free from punc-
tures and blowouts —just
Reliable Tyres.
Distributors Throughout Australasia.


“THERE’S MANY A SLIP
’TWIXT CUP AND LIP.”
with y n o°m- iSkS WOOL
when it reaches market.
Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
Baby is a
Connoisseur
in his own little way. He likes
and must have the best.
You cannot be too cautious in
selecting his food. Use a proved
food—a food which has been in
the front rank for many years.
Mellin's Food is the proved most
efficacious equivalent to Mother’s
Milk, and satisfactorily fulfils all the
requirements of an artificial food.
Metlins
Food
Set out to feed baby right. Next to breast-feed-
ing, the Mellin'a Feeding Bottle has most advan-
tages. A trial convinces you.
A Sample of Mellln’s Food, with Handbook for
Mothers. “The Care of Infants in Australia," Iree.
Messrs. Gollin & Co. proprietary. Ltd.
SYDNEY •
0
Motor
for Solo
as.fl
! Bicycles
& Sidecar
You can take any hill or*
the roughest road with ease
and comfort when ridir g a
B.S.A. Motor Bicycle or
combination, The special
advantages and efficiency
of the
B.S.A. COUNTERSHAFT
THREE-SPEED GEAR
make this machine one of the
most economical models on the
road. The comfort and reliability
of the B.S.A. Motor Bicycle under
all conditions have gained univer-
sal popularity and unequalled
praise for its services.
All B.S.A. Parts are
guaranteed interchangeable.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE SHOWING
MACHINES IN ACTUAL COLOURS.
’ 'l
'-/r\
j:v>
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing 8.8. A. Co., Ltd.),
Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
BENNETT 8 WOOD LTD., Pitt Street, Sydney.
AUstr>M
AN
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
advt
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
advt
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
SOLE BELUNG ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS!
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited
“Collins House," 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Agent:
K. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street,
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brooknian Buildings
“A.W.” “T.Y.R.” “A.W. PREMIER.”
ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH.
HIGH-SPEED DRILLS. HIGH-SPEED STEEL.
Sole Australian Representatives.—
Gilbert Lodge & Co. Ltd.,
115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Inter-State Stocking: Agents:—
Edward Street, Brisbane.
®°® E *^' s O^, ;L,td -> Woranda Bldgs., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
OHAS. ATKINS & CO. (W.A.), Etd., 894 Haj Street, Perth.
Manufactured by
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG, WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.,
Manchester, England.
Men’* Stout 7/6
„ Light 6/-
Ladies’ - - 41-
(Soles and Heels),
per set
Men’i Stout 2/6
Light 2-
Ladiea' - 1/3
(HeeU only,
per pair.
FROM ALL
BOOTMEN.
Manufmcturers —
PHILLIPS'
PATENTS.Ltd.,
London, Eng.
THIN Rubber plates, with raised studs,
to be attached on top of ordinary soles and
heels, giving complete protection from wear.
SOLES AND HEELS
make one pair of boots
last the time of three
fl THEY impart smoothness to the tread,
'JI give grip, and prevent slipping. Keep
feet dry in wet weather. Ideal for golf.
:-v
Fortify
your
Boots!
As worn by
thousands of
Au st r ali an
Officers and
Men Overseas.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS
N.S. WALES and QUEENSLAND, G. WILLIAMSON, 46, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA, J. M. ROHAN, 262, Post Office Place. Melbourne.
S. & W. AUSTRALIA, C. M. HANSFORD, 22, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING* STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
3
fi
,v\VW
nrox\
GBD
THE PERFECT PIPE
r»nn
| K| S
L
The mark that means
QUALITY
in a pipe!
That GBD trade-mark guarantees three things
you desire in a pipe:
Genuine old French Briarwood, the expert
work of British pipe-makers, and GOOD
VALUE FOR YOUR MONEY!
Popular in Australia for more than 50 years
MANY SHAPES LONDON MAKE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Whenever Billy Hughes is lost in the
lancers—which is most of the time—he
rotates with himself in a circle, humming
cheerfully. New tops on this model should
prove a hit as novelties for next Christmas.
» ■» * *
Railway travelling has made great pro-
gress in Victoria in the last half-century.
In June, 1870, it took 115 minutes to travel
from Melbourne to Geelong; by June, 1920,
the time had been cut down to 114 minutes.
At that rate they will do it inside an
hour and a quarter in 3920.
* * * *
“Peg-Leg”: Struck a new way of keeping
beer cool at a station outside Moree
(N.S.W.). The boss put tiny perforations
in the bottom of a tin of benzine, and the
oil dripped very occasionally on his bottled
drought-breakers. It dried instantaneously,
and after half-an-hour of this treatment tlie
beer was colder than an archangel’s wife at
a banquet of divorcees.
* * * *
“L.L.W.”: In a Newcastle school a
master asked a big boy how much a week
he made by selling papers. “About a
pound,” the boy answered “Quite the
moneyed man of the class,” remarked the
teacher. Whereupon a lad in the same class
scornfully interjected, “Garni On Sundays
alone I make a quid keepin’ nit for the two-
up school over at Merewether!”
* * * *
“A.H.M.”: Never despair! Thirty-eight
years ago a friend of mine supplied building
material to a man and duly sent along his
account for £6O. The builder became bank-
rupt, but failed to get a clearance. Later
he started afresh and lately died worth a
few thousands. My friend was able to estab-
lish his ancient claim, and a cheque came
along for the full amount.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin,— lt seems to me that at
this time of house famine a ridiculous num-
ber of workers have been taken off cottage
construction to build arches that will only
bore the Prince and prevent him seeing us.
What Australia really wants is a movable
collapsible automobile arch which could run
before his Royal Highness or any other visi-
tor, so that one would serve a whole city.
Being collapsible it would fit wide and nar-
row streets indiscriminately, and if necessary
it could stand outside his quarters at night
like a faithful hound. The mottoes on it
could be changed every hour and it could
have music and illuminations attached. —
Yours, Henry Horsecollar.
“Albatross”: “Derwent” (B. 10/6/’2O)
states that Captain Milford McArthur, who
wants to berth the Renown at the Ocean
Pier, Hobart, once brought a four-masted
barque alongside under sail. She was the
Empress of China, a barquentine owned by
Facy and Fisher, of Hobart, and McArthur
commanded her for a time. Old Facy, head
of the firm, was proud of the Empress, and a
scratch on her paintwork upset him. On the
day McArthur did the trick. Facy was
watching from the top window of his office.
Seeing that McArthur had a lot of way on
his ship, and fearing that he might continue
right up Dunn-street, the old chap rushed to
the pier, only to find the Empress securely
moored with all sail standing. When the
part-owner met McArthur he could hardly
speak. At last he spluttered out: “Captain
McArthur... .Milford !... .It was very well
done; but, d —n it, don't do it again!"
* * * *
“Macquarie Street” on high rentals:—
It is high time the B.M.A. in Sydney did something
to protect practitioners of medicine against pro-
fiteering landlords, especially in Maequarie-street.
There has been much talk about selling the B.M.A.
premises in Elizabeth-street, which are not big enough
for the rapidly increasing work of the Association,
and launching out on a huge building in Maequarie-
street, to include, besides meeting-rooms, a library
and offices, a great number of consulting and waiting
rooms; and this would probably have a steadying
effect on the sharks. I looked lately at a couple of
poorish, uninviting apartments, and was informed
that the rent would be £4OO per annum, plus
ordinary cleaning charges, which would amount to
another £3O. I was thinking of 30s. per week in my
Scotch way. Many of the wiseacres of the profession,
rather than put up with extortion, have spent from
ten to fourteen thousand pounds in buying
the by no ineang inviting houses in this street. A
team of dentists were not slow in adopting this ex-
cellent idea, and are now comfortably installed in
up-to-date premises where there is no landlord to
face every month.
MY FRIEND DIOGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Diogenes was a wise old man. Though he was
rich and famous he lived in a tub to show that
people could do without great houses and fine
clothes.”
Dioge possessed neither motor nor mat,
He gave no At Homes and he put out no cat,
He might have had servants and lived in a flat,
But his tub was his roof and his bed.
He had lots of money but sense with it, too —
Which makes him quite diff’rent from me and from
you,
For we’re empty fools and we haven’t a sou
And we’ll stay as we are till we’re dead.
Dioge had the wonderful luck to be born
Before the round world by the wowser was torn,
No hurry-up Yank came to treat him with scorn
And to bore him with “stunts” and “campaigns.”
The world -is as simple as simple could be;
No steamer rought Bolsheviks over the sea.
There wasn’t a film or a foaming M.P.
To addle a deep thinker’s brains.
Diogenes wouldn’t be able to-day
To simplify life in his insolent way ;
Whatever you do there is something to pay—
if you don’t run a motor you jazz ;
The income-tax man calls around for your sub.,
He doesn’t care whether it’s mansion or pub,
A small stuffy flat or philosopher’s tub—
It’s a way that each damn nuisance has.
Diogenes cut out the rent for awhile,
But I can’t Domain in that primitive style;
Some nuisance inspector would think it was vile
And haul me to court to be fined.
So I’ve got to live in an elegant cot
With water laid on and all that sort of rot
Still I think I’d as soon live that way as not,
So I’m trying to feel quite resigned.
N.S.W.
KODAK.


The consistent efficacy of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills is the real reason for the continued
and ever-increasing demand for this remedy. Letters from all parts of Australia and New
Zealand in praise of these pills are continually being received by the Proprietors. Space
will not permit reproducing anything like the number received, but the few here printed
go to show the widespread popularity of this remedy. For every letter published there are
thousands of people who will speak in similar terms.
HOWARD.
Mrs. E. Raines, William Street,
Howard, Q’land, writes: —
“To anyone who values good health I
would recommend Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills every time. I have used this
remedy as occasion required for a good
many years, with the very best results,
having enjoyed good health all the time.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills not only
regulate the system, but tone it up as
well, and by increasing the pleasure of
existence, make life really worth while.”
RUTHERGLEN.
Mr. Francis C. Lott, Brown’s Plains,
Rutherglen, Vic., writes: —
“I have used Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills for many years. Whenever I suffer
with slight bilious attacks these pills
always rectify my health, and I can per-
sonally recommend them as a genuine
‘Liver Pill.’ My wife also finds them
useful occasionally. During the past
fourteen years I have been employed on
the Victorian Railways, and am well
and favorably known.”
HINDMARSH.
Mrs. Marion Smith, 15 Robert Street,
Hindmarsh, S.A., writes:—
“Sometime ago I was a sufferer from
indigestion, and took a course of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills on the persua-
sion of a friend. I am pleased to relate
that I derived much benefit from this
remedy, and can now recommend them
accordingly to any similar sufferers.”
PARKSIDE.
Mrs. Adelaide Fry, 33 Victoria Street,
Parkside, S.A.:
“I was a great martyr to rheumatics
in Longreaeh, Q., and at times could not
move from my bed. My mother was a
great believer in Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills, and through her instrumentality I
took your remedy and found them relieve
my sufferings always. I now take them
occasionally, and my state of health is
usually very good.”
UNLEY.
Mrs. Eva May Rowney, 30 Charles
Street, Unley, S.A.: —
“My mother first induced me to use
Dr. Morse’s Indiau Root Pills, as I was
a great sufferer from biliousness. I usu-
ally find that a dose of pills wards off
any recurrence of bilious disorder. I
am an old resident of Bordertown and
mother of five children.”
CHRISTCHURCH.
Mrs. Clemence, 18 Stewart Street,
Christchurch, N.Z., writes:
“I can certainly state that I have
found Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
to be a genuine corrective medicine. I
have used them for a number of years,
and, in fact, never use any other remedy.
I have been a resident in this locality
for twenty years.”
LOWER HUTT.
Mrs. Mary Wugman, Victoria Street,
Lower Hutt, N.Z., writes:
“I can testify to the efficacy of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills in combating
indigestion. I was a great sufferer some
years ago from this complaint, but after
taking your remedy I obtained much
relief, and I am now much better than
formerly from my old malady.”
MILTON.
Mrs. Catherine Davies, McDougal
Street, Milton, Q’land, writes:
“A chemist recommended me to try
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for severe
sick headaches and pains in the back. I
would feel quite dizzy, with the head
throbbing so, just as if I was going to
fall forward. My back would ache so
that I could hardly stoop. These attacks
would last about a couple of days at a
time. Sometimes I would have to take
to my bed with them, for I couldn’t hold
up any longer. I could not fancy any-
thing to eat, and would be so qualmish.
It is only a few months since I started
the course, taking two pills each night;
it is wonderful the good they have done
me. I shall always keep them by me
and speak of them with gratitude.”
ROCKHAMPTON.
Mrs. E. F. Bates, 396 East Street,
Rockhampton, Q’land, writes:—
“It is now eleven years since I was
cured of chronic indigestion by using
Dr. Morse's Indian Root Pills. My doc-
tor gave my case up as incurable and said
he could do no more for me. After every
meal I used to have a hot burning sensa-
tion at the pit of the stomach, with fer-
mentation of food and flatulence; and I
was also troubled with constipation. I
suffered from great depression of spirits,
and was in such a low condition that I
could hardly do any work, or take inter-
est in anything, and life was not worth
living. In this extremity I was advised
to try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and
as I felt such great relief from the very
first dose, I was encouraged to give this
medicine a fair trial, and as my health
began to improve with almost every dose
I took, I continued with this medicine for
several weeks, at the end of which, to
my great surprise and joy. I found my-
self completely cured —and I have re-
mained cured. I continued to use this
medicine occasionally for regulating the
system, and do so still.”
BOULDER.
Mrs. Margaret Kennett, 9 Milton
Street, Boulder, W.A., writes:—
“Speaking as I find, I say Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are a most wonderful
medicine for the relief from Rheumatism,
from which I have suffered for years.
I have been under doctors for a number
of years, but they did me not the least
bit of good. Since taking your pills I
can now walk about as though I had
never been affected with this terrible
malady. I advise others affected as I
was to give this valuable medicine a
trial. I am the mother of ten children
and fifty-nine years of age.”
NORTH SYDNEY.
Mr. G. C. Seaborn, 13 Oak Street,
North Sydney, N.S.W., writes:
“This is to inform you that fifteen
years ago Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
completely cured me of .serious kidney
trouble, from which I had been a fre-
quent sufferer. It was not long also
before I discovered what a valuable medi-
cine these pills were for the relief of
constipation, biliousness and other diges-
tive ailments, and I realised what a valu-
able household remedy I had found. Time
and experience have only served to fur-
ther increase and confirm my earlier
faith in the virtues of this useful remedy.
I am an old resident of North Sydney.
I am forwarding you the results of my
own personal experience in the hope that
it may prove helpful to others.”
HAMILTON EAST.
Mr. I Pavreal, McFarlane Street,
Hamilton East, N.Z., writes:
"I have been using Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills for 12 months and have found
them to be an excellent pill for indiges-
tion. I have been a resident of this
district for 54 years. I always recom-
mend your pills to my friends in similar
circumstances.”
WELLINGTON.
Mrs. A. L. Evans, 39 Frederick
Street, Wellington, N.Z., writes:—
“I have used Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills in my family for some years, and
can say that they have proved to be a
genuine remedy for any liver disorder
and beneficial as a family remedy for
the common family ills. I have been a
resident of this locality five years.”
WEST SUBIACO.
Mrs. Annie Tillotson, Herbert Road,
West Subiaco, W.A., writes:
“It gives me pleasure in testifying to
the good results I have obtained by tak-
ing Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for
the relief of biliousness and kidney com-
plaint, from which I was a great sufferer.
I take three pills twice a week, and I
find they keep away all symptoms of my
old complaint. I also give them to my
eldest son of headaches; he also finds
them an unsurpassed medicine for dis-
pelling this trouble. I am the mother of
six children and a resident of this local-
ity of five years.”
COLLINGWOOD.
Mrs. E. M. Wetzlar, 121 Sackville
Street, Collingwood, Vic., writes:—
“In Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills I
have found a most effective agent in the
leading of a healthy life. As all cases
of indigestion, biliousness, headache and
constipation are effectively relieved and
checked by this remedy, a healthy condi-
tion can be safely maintained; and as
this has been the experience in my own
case I have naturally the greatest faith
in the remedy and am never without it.”
WATERLOO.
Mrs. Elizabeth Bowden, 9 Amelia
Street, Waterloo, N.S.W., writes:—
“I look upon my first acquaintance
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills as a
fortunate event in my life. I had been
a sufferer from biliousness, sick-headache
and constipation for a considerable time.
The first application of the pills brought
me considerable relief, and after a short
course of them it was quite evident that
they' could invariably be relied upon to
relieve any disorders of the digestive
organs, however distressing they might
be. It is now eight years since my first
trial of this remedy, and all subsequent
experience has only helped to further
increase my faith in its power to do
good.”
WEST ULVERSTONE.
Nurse Janet Cameron, West Ulver-
stone, Tas., writes:—
“I can certify to the efficacy of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills as a genuine
remedy for the relief of Indigestion.
Many years ago I first tried this medicine,
and have frequently recommended Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills also as a laxa-
tive to my patients in my capacity as a
maternity nurse, where I followed this
profession for many years past.”
HORNSBY.
Mr. William Higgins, Muriel Street,
Hornsby, N.S.W., writes:—
“As the result of an injury to the
spine I have been a cripple for the last
twenty-two years, unable to walk, and
at the best only able to iqove across the
floor by the aid of a chair. Partly due
to the injury to the spine, and partly to
this sedentary life I have been compelled
to lead all these years, I have suffered
more or less with constipation. I have
taken Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for
the last fifteen years, and in their effi-
cacy for this complaint it is my experi-
ence that they surpass all the other reme-
dies I have ever tried. , They have on
numberless occasions brought ease and
comfort into my life, and made my afflic-
tion the easier to bear. I am in my
sixty-seventh year, and am an old resi-
dent of Hornsby. You may use this
testimonial as you think best in the
interests of others.”
GLEBE.
Mrs. E. Barnett, Campbell Street,
Glebe, N.S.W., writes: —
“Just a few words expressing my ap-
preciation of the value of your great
remedy. I commenced taking Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills about ten (10) years
ago, for severe and distressing pains in
the kidneys, from which for years past
I had been a frequent sufferer. The
almost immediate relief I experienced
from using the pills was remarkable, and
the world of good they effected generally
was so great that I have never since been
without them, but have continued to use
the pills for every succeeding recurrence
of the trouble, and always with the same
happy results. The discovery of a
remedy capable of coping with such a
distressing complaint, and of giving such
prompt and effective relief, has been a
great source of consolation to me. Th.e
pills have also been of great service both
to my husband and myself for indiges-
tion and constipation, and when admin-
istered to our young boy the effect has
been equally beneficial. This remedy is
the only one we use.”
PADDINGTON.
Mrs. F. Pickering, 22 Little Napier
Street, Paddington, N.S.W., writes:—
“It is with pleasure that I forward
you a few lines in praise of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. I have taken these
pills for over twelve years, and I know
by experience how quickly they banish
all disorders of the digestive organs. My
own particular trouble has been headache
and constipation, for which this remedy
has never yet failed to give prompt relief.
I have pleasure in commending this
remedy to others, as I believe by its use
the same healthy conditions I now enjoy
would be theirs. also.”
HOBART.
Mrs. Lydia Williams, 4 Chapel Street,
Hobart, Tas., writes: —
“It is interesting to record the aston-
ishing good I have experienced through
the use of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
I was before using your pills a martyr
to biliousness and sick-headaches arising
therefrom, and seeing your pills adver-
tised gave them a trial. I have enjoyed
splendid health since taking Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills, and can say through
the experience of them and other medi-
cines that I must put your excellent pills
first. I am the mother of two children
and seventy-six years of age, and recom-
mend these pills to those wanting to rid
themselves of this complaint.”
are a purely vegetable preparation. They are not advertised as a cure-all, but as a corrective for everyday ills. They purify
the blood, cleanse the stomach, put life into the liver, stimulate the kidneys to perform their proper function, and will prevent
many of the ailments so common if taken occasionally to keep the system in proper working order. In thousands of homes Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are the Sole Family Remedy for all general complaints.


PERFECTION MARINE ENGINES
in any size for Pearling Schooners,
Working Boats, Pleasure Launches,
Canoes, Dinghies, etc.
8-h.p. Unit Plant with reverse gear on same bed. Perfect
alignment guaranteed. The ideal engine for small speed boats
Speed record up to date is 214 miles per hour, driving a 20ft. by
4ft. Oin. beam Hand V Bottom boat, turning a 16in. x 20in. propeller.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY FROM STOCK
of Caille Outboard and “Bantam” (Inboard) motors; also 1-, 2- and
4-cylinder types from 2 to 30 h.p., for light or heavy duty.
All Engines Fitted with High-Tension Ignition.
Write or wire for Catalogue and full particulars of type of engine
you require to
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA & PACIFIC ISLANDS,
BENSON
BROTHERS LIMITED
76-8 Liverpool Street, Sydney; 71-f> Queen’s Bridge Street,
South Melbourne; 138 Currie Street, Adelaide; and
Wellington, N.S.
Cable Address—“Brosbenson.”
C 315
a
*
ose
L_
cv/>
Jfa
ofjuocite
Begin to Wear
Them !
Hose of Luxite excel
because of specialized
methods of knitting.
For mo re than 16
pears these Hose have
amazed the public bp
their durabilitp, and
thep are just as dur-
able to-dap as ever,
besides being more
beautiful.
If your dealer is unable
to supply you, write us.
Indents and Wholesale thru
WALTER CATHRO PTY. LTD.
50 York Street :: SYDNEY.
rase
3<M:u=a
m BEST VALUE
the worlds
advt
jEsai
\
Keighley Imperial 70-B.H.P. Horizontal Semi-
Diesel Oil Engine.
The right engine
for every purpose
Anything from 5 to 600 B.H.P. is the range of these high-
grade all-British Engines.
There is a Keighley Imperial Engine made to suit your type
of work, whether it demands a vertical or horizontal Gas,
Kerosene, Petrol or Semi-Diesel Engine—or a Producer Plant
for giving power from various binds of refuse.
KEIGHLEY IMPERIAL ENGINES satisfy the exacting stan-
dards set by the Admiralty, War Office, Indian Office, and over
50 foreign Governments, who use them continuously. You
can depend upon Keighley Imperial Engines for efficient
service, reliability and economy. A special catalogue dealing
with the various types of engines will be mailed on request.
NOYES BROS.
Electric Generator Set.
n
Horizontal 2-Cylinder Gas Engine., with
Self-starter.
40-B.H.P. Portable Kerosene Engine.
(SYDNEY), LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney. (MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD., 499-501
Bourke Street, Melbourne; and Darling Building, Adelaide. Also from J. R. W. GARDAM,
Perth; and CHAS. E. BERNAYS, Fitzroy Buildings, 125 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
KEIGHLEY IMPERIAL ENGINES
They do things differently in Canada. The
Canadian Senate has passed the second read-
ing of a Bill requiring all who sell am/thmg
German to put over their doors and in tneir
advertisements and on their stationery the
words, '“Dealer in German goods. -Lne
penalty for failing to do this is gaol.
“Alexander”: Castlemaine (Vic.) kids
turn an honest penny in the autumn by col-
lecting the acorns under the oaks in the
park and selling them for pig-tucker. It
is reckoned that hogs topped up on acorns
give the best-colored and firmest bacon. One
youth alleges that he has made as much as
£3 a week.
H.R.H., possibly with the souvenir-hunter
in mind, wears his fair hair clipped very
short. At the Melbourne Hospital Ball one
dame, encouraged by the Prince’s most graci-
ous demeanor, begged a souvenir. ery
well, what would you like?” asked the
Prince. The lady blushed, not having made
any decision on this point, and faltered: A
lock of hair, if you please.” “Certainly,”
was the cheerful rejoinder. "But 111 have to
grow it!'’
Melbourne Age remarks that “the N. S.
Wales Government has tackled the question
of the fish supply with a very fair amount of
success,” and asks “Can the Victorian Gov-
ernment not do at least as much?” It
ought to, considering the pained observa-
tions of Chief Secretary Dooley (N.S.W.)
on the State trawlers, viz., “the position ot
the industry has gone from bad to worse:
the loss last year was £lO,OOO. and the esti-
mated loss this year is over £20,000, making
a grand total of £57,000.” In fact, a Gov-
ernment of blackfellows should be able to do
as much.
“Henry Horsecollar”: Federal Treasurer
Watt went to London to arrange or explain
away the 30 or 40 millions which Aus-
tralia owes for the maintenance, of its army,
eight millions of it being a plain default or
broken promise. Then he cabled his resigna-
tion from London, and people gaped and won-
dered why. If my health was as poor as
that of the overworked Watt, and I got the
bleak reception that Bullopolis is likely to
hand out to the agent of a Government which
defaulted rather than tax and economise, I
would have resigned also. I think I would
also have got drunk.
“I will not take the extra £4OO a year.
In respect of the first two or three months
it will go to the widow of Emil Roesler
whom the Government interned. After that
if I know of any case of destitution on the
part of Australian-born Germans who have
been interned I shall use the increased pay-
ment to assist them. After that I shall
hand it either to the S.A. Labor party or
the Daily Hekald.” Thus the garrulous
Gabb, M.H.R., in a pose of self-conscious
virtue. But the S.A. Labor party has coldly
refused the proffered gift and commanded
the interesting martyr to return it to the
Treasury.
H. R. Mackay, who has gone to England
to help Lane Poole at the Forestry Con-
ference in July, is a versatile Vic. civil ser-
vant. He began in the Treasury, and trans-
ferred to the Defence Dept. Then he was
appointed secretary to a Forestry Commis-
sion, which lasted for years. Instead of
yawning Mackay took the gum-tree seriously,
and ultimately became conservator. Once
he was superseded, but he got back again.
Then he was passed over for Chief Forest
Commissioner, as an Australian could not
possibly be any good when a 32-year-old
Englishman was about. Mackay has got a
trip, at any rate, out of being second com-
missioner. He went around the world once
before with Robert Reid when that solid
calico merchant ' was J. B. Patterson’s
Minister of Defence.
Talking about referendums, recalls, etc.: —
About three years ago the East Melbourne branch
of the Labor party made an attempt to give that
party a recall of its own. The candidate was to
be asked to sign an undated resignation and leave it
with the branch secretary, to be handed to the Speaker
if a special summoned meeting of the branch members
thought he deserved it. A chance to try the idea
came locally with the State selection ballot; but
the winner, a very up-to-date young socialist, refused
to have anything to do with it. Little Dr. Maloney,
member for Melbourne, was approached, and he
was willing enough. Thus encouraged East Mel-
bourne began to “word” the other branches. At
this point the Central Executive, always against
the rank and file having any power, roared “un-
constitutional,” and the infant perished. All can-
didates under the Socialist party’s flag have to
leave something of the kind in the hands of the
party executive.
When it wasn’t a question of giving or
taking orders there was no gulf between
General Ryrie, now Assistant-Minister of
Defence, and his men. The 2nd Light Horse
were camped at Talaat-ed-dumm prior to
crossing the Jordan in March, 1918. Ryrie
was standing on the edge of a cliff over-
looking the valley. Away in the distance
there was a cloud of dust, and Jacko’s guns
were shelling it. Said the Brig.: “Those
camels will be getting scattered if they don’t
find cover soon.” A machine-gunner near by
woke up. “Camels? They’re not camels,
they’re horses /” Out came the Brig.’s binocu-
lars. “I’ll bet a quid they’re camels,” he
said, casually. The gunner looked again.
“It’s a bet,” he ejaculated. A few minutes
later all doubt was dispelled; clearly they
were horses. The Brig, silently handed over
a 100-piastre note, which was accepted as
a matter of course.
“Silas Snell”: Johnnie Toole’s bad habit
of working off practical jokes on tradespeople
was part of a scheme for keeping the para-
graphs going. But Johnnie did not always
have it his own way. He went into Mel-
bourne’s biggest ironmongery, and asked for
sixpennyworth of bird-seed, if you please.
“Bird-seed, sir?” said the salesman. “Cer-
tainly, sir. Will you please be seated ?”
Johnnie sat down, and waited five minutes,
feeling his joke going cold. Then he ad-
dressed the young man. “Are you attending
to me?” he asked. “Yes, sir,” was the
reply. “If you will wait just a little longer.”
Johnnie resumed his seat, now fully conscious
that his splendid jest had misfired, but try-
ing to save his face. After another five
minutes he demanded to be attended to. “Oh,
yes, the bird-seed, isn’t it?” said the sales-
man. “Well, I am afraid, Mr. Toole, we
must ask you to take a seat again. We are
growing it as quickly as we can!”


*: * *
L. SI
>,
&
.\
:v
i \
Sh.
mm,
' "'W* "•*■-*“
/
n
#w*
=% >
■
■ s*•&**-*
-
*
'4*
4*
■
.' r
<*
■■
H'X'S'Rgnown
in
Sydney Harbour
Some details of H.M.S.
Battle - cruiser “Renown”:
Length, 789 feet; 112.000
horse-power, producing about
38 miles per hour; displaces
26,500 tons, with draft of
only 25 ft. Gins.; Main Ar-
mament, six 45-caZ.j 98 ton,
15-inch guns, each firing a
1920 1b5. shell.
- Miles * Protection
GOODYEAR TYRES are built with a proper appreciation
of tke class and degree of service that they must deliver
to their users. During many years, hy test and trial; by
stern rejection of whatever fell short of an inflexible standard;
by taking the fullest advantage of the "Jutland Lessons”of road-
way and race-track, a wonderful commodity has been produced.
The STRENGTH of Goodyear Tyres is
derived in part from the excellence of the
materials —the fine rubber and the stout
fabrics —from which they are made ; in
part from the scientific and engineering
knowledge which creates them. It arises
from the jealous scrutiny which every tyre
undergoes at every stage of its construction.
The wonderful tale of fc MILES which Good-
year Tyres unroll comes from this titanic
strength and stubborn, dogged endurance —an
endurance that bad made possible tbe chain
of racing successes in 1919-1920.
The PROTECTION afforded by the non-
skidding bulldog - grip of the All-weather
Tread banishes anxiety on the worst of
roads. There is protection, also, against
delays, because punctures ars rare and blow-
outs rarer still.
BUILD BETTER ROADS
Branches and Agencies
in all Principal Cities
Service Stations and
Dealers everywhere
■ i t


Cuticura Is What You Need
For Your Hair and Scalp
Dandruff kills the hair. Cuticura kills
dandruff. Try this treatment. Before
retiring rub Cuticura Ointment into part-
ings all over the scalp. Next morning
shampoo with Cuticura Soap and hot
water. Rinse with tepid water. Dandruff
usually disappears, hair stops falling and
becomes thick, live and healthy.
For sample each address: *‘R. Town. &
Co., Sydney, N. S. W." Sold everywhere.
Soap shaves without mug.
Williams’
Dental Cream
m
w.
'l
A * A A
>•©»•<
••• • •
Williams
Dt DsmalacHc
"tO.US.DAT OFF.
Denial
Cream
1
./a
S«C
THE .
■J B.WILUAMS CO
Glastonbury, conn.u'
*•••••<
••••••
OR b
m
f © «i
'T'HE regular use of Will-
-1 iams’ Dentalactic Dental
Cream means fine, well-
cared for teeth, which ex-
press health and
refinement. Will
iams'Dental-
actic Dental
Cream is a per-
fect dentifrice
and an efficient
antiseptic
which preserves
he teeth, keeps
them clean and
beautiful, and
kills the danger-
ous germs in
the mouth and
throat, keeping
them in a fine,
heal thy condition.
Sold by Chemists
Everywhere.
Send 1/9 i n
stamps to Wil-
liams, Box 98
G.P.0., Sydney,
tor full-sized
tube, post free.
W. 6 j
WWIS3H
m
3aiM
I3N3J
HViVaVM
• F ZNfING W)Rt
Stronger—Cheaper
—Better.
Every coil guaranteed true-to-
gauge and full length. “Waratah”
has a greater breaking strain
and costs less than imported
wires.
Get Free Fencing Booklet Nl9.
AUSTRAL NAIL CO. PTY. LTD
310 Flinders St., Melbourne.
Wire Mills at Newcastle, N.S. W.
LATEST
DESIGNS
ALL WOOL.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
GET OUR PRICE LIST NOW.
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
Room 5, 2nd Floor, 227 Collins St., Melbourne
GOLFERS
N.S.W. Loan of £2,000,000
for Necessitous Farmers.
90 per cent, of investment will be advanced to depositors investing
% in the above loan by the
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales
HEAD OFFICE, 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Repayable by nine monthly instalments. Interest per cent.
Application forms and full particulars may be obtained at any Branch.
SKF
3730
DO
1111 l
uum
Self-Aligning
Ball Bearings
On motor traction of every type—
cycle, car or truck —S.K.P. Self-
Aligning Ball Bearings are giving the
acme of service.
In fact wherever strains are greatest
—where dependability is vital —
S.K.P Ball Bearings are almost uni-
versally used. You should be sure
to specify S.K.F. They are your most
definite guarantee of reliability, dura-
bility, efficiency and economy.
Prices and full particulars from
c
Melbourne: 384 City Road.
Showrooms: 360 Flinders Street.
Sydney: 325 Clarence Street.
Brisbane: 367 Queen Street.
SYDNEY BRISBANE |
MELBOURNE
THE PALACE HOTEL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE LEADING HOTEL OF PERTH,
Overlooking the Swan River.
JOHN T. GLOWREY, Proprietor.
advt
IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
advt
TO
H.M. THE KINO
SCRUBBSAMMONIA
ALLAYS THE IRRITATION OF INSECT SITES.
Of all Grocers, Chemists, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
advt
Elasticity
is one chief feature about the Jason
undergarments which satisfies stren-
uous folk; the all-wool protection
when cooling is the other.
Jason-wear is woven to fit comfortably,
from pure wool, thoroughly shrunk.
Ask to see Jason undergarments at your
draper’s or stores.
.-WOOL UNSHRIKKASIf
UNDERWEAR
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
New “ Olympic ” Brand. Owing to the high prices
of the yarns from which Jason ail-wool goods are
made, the manufacturers have introduced temporarily
l/nver lines containing a j>ercentage of cotton—bearing
otherwise the same guarantee of quality as the regular
lines. Tour dealer will supply you.
C/5. i
\
■ *1
■X
' Vi
From an M.D.:—
That was a fine article of “M.McC.’s” on “Nerves.”
I have been through it all myself, and I daresay
there are few doctors who reach middle-age without
suffering something of the sort. But “M.McC.” should
have told us something about getting himself in
hand, again. It is a slow process. The best way in
my experience is to read a book about neurasthenia,
and observe that you have all the symptoms yourself.
“Naming”: In a recent book on Portugal
there is a picture of grapes being crushed in
a vat by the unclean feet of a score of
swarthy bandits, some of whom are smoking!
This ancient and pleasing practice still ob-
tains in Portugal, whose wines get preference
over our own in Britain, where “quality” is
insisted upon.
“Aloysius”: Artists’ models in London are
demanding a minimum of 16s. 6d. per day
and Bs. 6d. per evening. These figures do
not appear startling until one realises that
a Government-run institution like the
National Gallery, Melbourne, pays its models
at the following rates: Head and shoulder
poses, day (10 a.m.-4.30 p.m., with an hour
and a half off for lunch), 4s. 6d.; half-
nudes, day 4s. 6d.; full-nude, evening ss.
Od. It’s about time poor old Trilby Victoria
threatened to put her clothes on.
“Cutpurse”: Although the winter sun did
not warrant it, Cohen had his new window-
blind in place and was standing in Russell-
street admiring the effect of the purple
shadows upon the second-hand suits. Isaac-
son, general manager of the Mont de Pi6t€,
joined him and looked at Cohen with the
eyes of suspicion when he said that his cus-
tomers had presented the blind to him. Cus-
tomers in Itussell-street don’t do these things.
“Fair tinkum,” explained the clothier. “I
put a box on the counter marked ‘For the
Blind,’ and they filled it in time!”
“Don Ak.”: “Woman Murdered by Fran-
tic Auctioneer” is the heading I daily expect
to see in the Evening Screech. The way
bargain-crazy females bid blindly for articles
they don’t want is enough to justify the
man of the rostrum in wading knee-deep in
blood. A cash-register the other day was
hanging fire at £55. “Going at fifty-five!”
roared the man with the hammer, and the
little woman who had just come in said
“Sixty!” “It’s yours, madam,” said Big
Voice —“sixty pounds.” “Sixty pounds!”
squeaked ma. “I thought it was shillings!”
From the Thames Embankment:—
“Charlie” Bryant, the baby of a musical and
artistic family which was fostered at Manly, has
painted a large picture to represent the despatch
of the first convoy of the A.I.P. from Australia. The
same artist, now located in London, recorded pictori-
ally a good many phases of the war on commission
from the Federal Government—camouflaged ships,
shell-torn landscapes, etc. Since the days when he and
Arthur Burgess were schoolboys and pupils of W.
Lister-Lister in Sydney, his color-sense has deep-
ened in subtlety. He is rather fond of the bronze
effect on the crests of waves in certain lights which
Julius Olsson, A.R.A., has familiarised—you will see
it in some work to be exhibited shortly in Australia.
Bryant (like his musical relative Alice Hollander,
who continues to get her powerful Australian con-
tralto successfully across the footlights of the
variety theatres) seems a fixture in England.
“Snell”: A popular actor, one of the
native-born, tells of being engaged in the
early, arduous days of his career to join a
company run by a butcher named Watkins,
which was showing in a small hall at Smea-
ton, Smeaton being then in the throes of a
mining revival. Greezepaint went'along with
all haste, animated with highest hopes,
studying his part in the train up to Clunes,
and in the hired trap from Clunes to
Smeaton. He went on that night, and found
that the show, more particularly Watkins,
was accepted as a public cockshy, and eggs
were thrown with shameful prodigality.
Greezepaint says: “My final picture before
I fled for Clunes was of Watkins out
before the curtain, blood trickling down his
nose, appealing to the audience: ‘Come,
come, fair play, gents! Fair play ! No nest
eggs!’ ”
“Dolphin”: Australia’s wireless system
has lagged behind in the last few years, but
is in process of being improved. A start
has been made with the (Sydney and Fre-
mantle stations (incidentally, the plant is
being made in Australia), the idea being
to give Sydney a big radius in the Pacific
and enable Fremantle to work right across
the Indian Ocean. But there is room for
another station in the North sufficiently
powerful to work regularly with Singapore
and other Asiatic stations. Darwin would
answer best; Thursday Island is too far to
the east. Just now the Federal Ministry
is trying to make up its mind whether it
will provide Australia with a really up-to-date
high-power wireless system itself or accept
the proposals of the Marconi people, who
talk of putting - £8,000,000 into a round-the-
Empire chain of stations and of fixing the
cost of messages to and from Britain at
Is. 6d. a word, with reductions to follow.
Of course, if anything like that happens it
will give the cables a knock, and the Com-
monwealth is part-owner of the Pacific service.
“N. B. McK.” on early Mildura: —-
“Widgee” (B. 3/6/’2O) is a very inaccurate
chronicler of early Mildura. First, it is not true that
in those days the place was frequently visited by
Parliamentarians, bibulous or wowserwise. In May,
1890, about a dozen members of the Vie. Legislature
turned up, in response to the invitation of George
Chaffey, out of 40 expected. Prior to that, during
the ’eighties, not half-a-dozen members had seen
the place. Better for Mildura if more had troubled
to come and inform themselves —then there wouldn’t
have been such a hash-up later when they had to
deal with the question, parroted throughout Aus-
tralia: “Is Mildura worth saving?” Through the
ignorance of the Legislature, the enterprise was set
back 10 years. Wine didn’t flow like water in the
’eighties, either. There were some wet groceries
about, it is true; but in the first three years I doubt
if enough champagne was uncorked to get one man
dizzy. “The solitary J.P.” mentioned so humor-
ously by “Widgee” died from injuries received when
his horses bolted on the last day of 1890. He was
not the only J.P. He was an upright, educated,
courteous gentleman, who held the esteem of all.
The boys did not tie up his buggy wheels, nor did he
crash against his gatepost. Ranfurly didn’t buy 550
acres at Mildura, or even half that area. Nor did he lose
£20,000. I was his partner in the first timber depot
started at Mildura, so I had means of knowing. As
for there not being many people now at Mildura able
to put £20,000 into a venture, there are more men
of that tonnage there than in any other rural town
in Australia.


A Circle that Never
Stops Growing.
It is astonishing how quickly people get
to know about a car and especially
about the men who build it.
People are not buying Dodge . Brothers
Motor Car simply because they want a
car of some sort, or any sort.
They are buying it because they want the
precise and particular kind of car that
Dodge Brothers build.
All over the country they seem to have a
shrewd and accurate idea of exactly
the kind of manufacturers Dodge Bro-
thers are.
They seem to know that Dodge Brothers’
idea, from the very first, was that if
they built the car right—nothing else
mattered much.
People generally know all about the car—
or nearly all —before they call on a
Dodge Brothers dealer.
They know it either from their own experi-
ence, or from what they have seen or
been told of other people’s experience.
They pick out the very points for which it
is noted everywhere—points which have
not been emphasised especially in adver-
tising.
They know why they want the car—and
they are more eager for it to-day all
over the country than they have been at
any other period in its history.
The production has always been too small
to come anywhere near satisfying the
demand.
It is at this moment, and it probably will
be for years to come, no matter how
much it may be increased.
The explanation is ridiculously simple.
The car has never bred anything but good-
will.
Every time one of these cars goes into a
home it becomes an intimate -part of
the family life of that home.
It gets nothing but good words and good-
will.
The result is that that particular home be-
comes a little .circle of goodwill revolv-
ing around Dodge Brothers Motor Car.
The circle spreads out finally, and takes
in a nearby neighbor.
The neighbor’s home, in turn, begins to
radiate goodwill toward Dodge Brothers
and their car, and the circle keeps on
growing.
In that way it lias grown wider and wider
till it takes in ' the entire country.
There is always a desire for x the car wait-
ing to be satisfied as fast as the dealer
gets in a supply.
That’s why sales of more than 400,000 Dodge
Brothers Motor Cars in five years have
fallen far short of satisfying the de-
mand.
The car has qualities peculiar to itself.
People have found this out in their own
way.
It has made good with them, and they have
given it their goodwill.
That is why the goodwill circle goes on
growing greater and greater.
Dodge Brothers know this.
They know it is the biggest and best asset
in their business.
And, knowing it, they will of course keep
on making the car better and better.
The Standardised Motors, Limited, Dealers
in New South Wales for Dodge Bro-
thers are fortunate in having just
landed stocks to meet the ever-increas-
ing demand for the car.
advt
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
When a man decides to buy a Dodge Brothers
Motor Car, he is thinking how much such a car will
contribute to his business fitness and activity.
He is thinking how much he can expand his business
effort, and how slight the cost in comparison to the
increased return.
If he were not so sure of the car, he might not be
so sure of the wisdom of the investment.
But he knows that he can depend implicitly upon
the service it will deliver.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
Dodge Brothers
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Standardised Motors, Limited,
Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agrency (Queensland) Ltd.,
Brisbane.
Winterbottom Motor C 0.., Ltd.,
Perth.
Cheney Motor Co.; Ltd..,
Adelaide.
safecuardyoo* health
oTJ.Colff3 Bro(^
CWoredyae
The Original and Only Gennine.
the best medicine for
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and iu the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains ot GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhcea & Simple Dysentery .
0/ all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/S, SI-, a/-.
Made in England.
5
A Model
Hairdressing Saloon
The finest in Sydney—equipped
with every modern appointment,
convenience and comfort.
Craig 8 Aitken’s Saloon Employs
Seven Expert Hairdressers —
men whose training and experi-
ence have been gained in the
best saloons of the world.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY will
find Craig and Aitken’s Saloon
conveniently near the Central
Railway Station— almost next
door to Anthony Horderns’.
Prompt Service Guaranteed.
TH E “PLUM” RAZOR, illustrated above, and for which Craig and Aitken’s
are Sole Agents m Australia, is the Razor we have used in our for over
30 years. Thousands of “Plum” Razors are sold aJTnuaHy Tts finelv-
tempered edge keeps keen against the strongest beard y ‘ y
PRICE 12/6 POST FREE; or Pair i„ Double Case, 25/-
We keep it m order for two years, free of charge.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Send for
Illustrated
Folder
cnsland
To the Tourist, Scientist, Investor
and, with a hundred voices from her millions
of acres, to the Man in search of Land.
Free Information on all subjects
available at once on receipt of this coupon.
Nam*
/ Adrlrpss
i Queensland Government Intelligence and Tourist
Brisbane. *
advt
foMri* ?nd W Ir t rlga*l 1 o P n Ply
We have a Large 8 Varied Stock of Pumping Machinery.
Some;Spceialities of our own make are:—
Her Flants VilKlmiU8 ' IBC Walkin » Bea m Pumping
H^! eS S U . EngineB ' I B.C. Centrifugal Pumps.
Hercules Boring Plants. Brass Artesian and Deep-
Well Pump Cylinders.
hyP Points indmiU Pum P s - Pump Bods; Drive Well
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, and Water-raising
Appliances of all kinds.
advt
'b fackj Galvanised Fittings; “National” Pipe,
Standard). ’ ational Black and Galvanised Casing (the World’s
advt
Intercolonial Boring Co. Ltd. *
Merchants, Engineers & Contractors,
418-424 8 450-460 Ann Street
( Sss ms Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane
nearby). Works: Yeerrongpilly
advt


CHUNDER LOO BEING PRESENTED WITH PRINCE OF WALES’S CUP.
4BS
( V
i
o
P
o
n
L
AQ
n
■» -/»;V
--V-:
w
J&
/V'
IS
■i
\
VV.
I • •
r ‘ *
A-'.h
m
v
K.
ss
/
A
m
mu
.•v
4
•m.
A
m
P
fS
/
A
I
I
nWA
m
l
A
Wv : ;S
s.
/
'V
AAA
A.
A.
Ss.
X
<,x
//
Cft-
SP J
si
»5
((
Cobra,” s?>e Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Likes to win
A trophy, too!
Here we are, boys!
Fill it up!
“COBRA” s gone and
Won the Cup!
H.R.H. is
Pleased to see
Once again
The famous thre
“Well done, Chunder!
Lead him in!”
All the sports say,
“Brilliant win!”


/
\
Sr'
V
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s High-grade, Open-
face, Keyless Lever, compensation balance,
£2. Extra Jewelled, £2/10/-, £3,
£3/10/-, £4, guaranteed. Double
jewelled, £4.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, 30/-. Heavier,
25/-, 30/-. 15ct. Gold,
40/-, 50/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Circle Brooch, set Pearls,
A. Saunders’ Aquamarine Brooch, 9et
Gold, 20/-
A. Saunders’
Aquamarine 3-bar Brooch,
20/-
m
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£B/10/-
"5
A. Saunders’
Lady’s 9ct. Gold
Tablet Ring, 15/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Boat-shape
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ 3-
Diamond Ring,
18et. Gold,
£4/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Necklet, set Pearls
and Rubies, £3.
Pearls and Aqua-
marines, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
18ct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, set
Pearls and Red Stone, 20/-
A. Saunders r Pearl Bar Brooch, £2.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Crossover
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£3/15/-
A. Saunders' Gent.’s
Signet Ring, 9ct.
Gold, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Nickel Silver Hunting
Watch, £2/10/-, i-plate movement
£4/10/-, Extra Jewelled £5,
£5/10/-, £O, £7/10/-, £B/10/-,
£lO. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Returned Sol
dier’s Presentation Medal, 9ct
Gold, 25/«
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Curb Albert, £5. Lighter, £3/10/-,
£4, £4/10/-. Heavier, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-
15ct. Gold, £B/10/-. Lighter, £6/10/-, £7/10/-
Heavier, £lO, £l2/10/-, £l5.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Albert, “Lome pillar” design, £3/10/-
Heavier, £4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-, £6/10/-.
15ct. Gold, £6/10/-. Heavier, £7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Football Medal, 30 /-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, daintily engraved,
15/-
A. Saunderi’ 9ct. Gold
Circle Brooch, set Pearl
and Rubies, 12/6.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Lever Wristlet Watch, Jewelled
Movement, 30/-, 40/-, £2/10/-, £3,
£3/10/-, £4, £5.
SEND FOR LATEST CATALOGUE.
WE POST ALL ORDERS FREE.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller,
805-815 George St., Sydney
(Opposite Railway Station).
*.Mu*atß»
Si
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Wristlet Watch, 20/-, 30/-, 40/-,
50/-, 60/-, £3/10/-, £4, £5, £6. Guaranteed.
Mining Notice.
THE TONGKAH HARBOR TIN
DREDGING CO. N.L.
NOTICE OF DIVIDEND.
Notice is hereby given that a
Dividend (the 37th) of 10 per cent., or
Two Shillings (2/-) per Share, amounting
to £15,000. has been declared payable 22nd
July, 1920, and for this purpose the Share
Register closes from the 15th to the 22nd
of July inclusive.
By order of the Board,
H. J. WISE,
Manager.
Dated at Hobart this 11th day of June, 1920.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
*|" IVOtl THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.30.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents MISS LEE WHITE,
London’s Idol, in
BRAN PIE.
Plans at Nicholson's and the Tivoli.
■yiVOEI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
ROBERT COURTNEIDGE AND HIS LONDON
COMEDY CO. in
THE MAN FROM TORONTO.
Prices as usual.
H
K It M A .1 E S T V ’ S, S Y I) N E I.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
THE SWEETEST OF ALL MUSICAL COMEDIES.
KISSING TIME.
By the J. C. WILLIAMSON ROYAL COMIC OPERA
COMPANY.
Plans at Paling’s.
CK I T IC It 1 O N T II EA T It IS. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
J. D. O’HARA and his Brilliant Company in
THREE WISE FOOLS.
One of the smartest plays Sydney has had for a
long while.
Plans at Paling’s.
AL ACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. and N. TAIT have pleasure in presenting
MISS MARIE ILKA
in the great drama of Love and Beauty,
TIGER ROSE.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE
WORLD and SBLZNICK.
Amusements.
Town hall, sybN e y.
Direction CHAPPELL.
EXGLAND’S LEADING VOCALISTS.
AMY EVANS, Spprano.
FRASER GANGE, Basso-cantante.
SYDNEY CONCERTS:
TUESDAY, JUNE 29: THURSDAY, JULY 1;
SATURDAY, JULY 3.
Plan at Paling’s.
UNI O N l* ICTU It IS TIIISAT It K S
THE PICK OF THE AVORLD’S FILMS.
Presehted in the Finest Theatres in Australia.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM.
STRAND, GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
MAJESTIC, GRAND. KING’S CROSS.
WEST'S OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
|_aisli .MAJESTY'S T HEATH 15, AIISLBOU'ItN K
■ ■ Direction J. C. AVILLIAMSON LTD.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 26.
J. C. AVILLIAMSON LTD. present a revelation in
revues,
THE PASSING SHOW OF 1920.
Plan at Allan’s. Popular Prices.
T II H A T It 15 It O Y A L. MELBOURNE
1 Direction J. 0. AVILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. AVILLIAMSON LTD. present the Latest
London Success,
YES, UNCLE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
KING’S THEATRE. MELBOC It N K.
Lessees: DAILEY ft GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT present the LAST NIGHTS of the fas-
cinating English actress
EMELIE POLINI in
THE LITTLE DAMOZEL,
A Fascinating English Comedy Drama.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan's.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN and JOHN FULLER.
Sole direction J. C. AVILLIAMSON LTD.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 26.
CARTER THE MYSTERIOUS
AND HIS MAGICAL COMPANY.
The AVorld’s greatest wonder worker.
Popular Prices. Plan at Pianola.
HOYT’S THEATRES. MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET. and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
THIS AVEEK’S FEATURES:
THEDA BARA in
THE SHE-DEVIL.
FRANK MAYO, in
THE BRUTE BREAKER.
Prices as usual.
gRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Amusements.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CHARLES CHAPLIN in
A DAY’S PLEASURE.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
T THE
GLACIARIUM,
MELBOURNE.
DANCING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
TABLES MAY BE RESERVED.
p ALAIS de DANSE
■ST. HILDA.
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
DANCING
EVERY EVENING.
PALAIS DE DANSE,
ESPLANADE,
ST. KILDA.
DANCING 8 till 11 DANCING
Entrance 1/-, plus tax, Id. Continuous Dancing.
Each Dance 3d. Private Loges, 2/-_(four) ; 3/- (six).
We Desire
to Buy
advt
PLATINUM, at £lB per ounce.
OLD GOLD and SILVER, for
Melting Purposes.
DIAMONDS, PEARLS and other
Pine Gems.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation In Australia.
Missing Friends.
HENRY INGRAM and EDITH SWIFT (who both
went to Australia) should communicate with
Baddeleys, 77 Leadenhall Street, London, England,
Solicitors, and they will hear of something to their
benefit.
Government Notices.
ORDER NO. 4..
Commercial Activities Act 1919.
War Precautions (Sheepskins)
Regulations.
Sheepskins to be made Available lor
Appraisement.
T WILLIAM MORRIS HUGHES, Prime Minister of
the Commonwealth of Australia, in pursuance
of the War Precautions (Sheepskins) Regulations
(Commercial Activities Act 1919) and upon the re-
commendation of the Central. Wool Committee, do by
this notice: —
(a) require every person, firm and company now
holding or having under his or its control
any stock or stocks of dry sheepskins of the
value of £5O or over which has or have not
been appraised under the said Regulations to
make available on or before the 28th day
of April, 1920, such stock or stocks of dry
sheepskins for appraisement; and
(&)• require every person firm and company at
any time after the date of this notice and'
before the 30th day of June, 1920, holding
or having under his or its control any stock
or stocks of dry sheepskins of the value of
£5O or over which has or have not been
appraised under the said Regulations to
make available within 14 days from the
date on which such stock or stocks of dry-
sheepskins is or are first held or had under
his or its control, such stock or stocks of
dry sheepskins for appraisement.
And I declare that this Order does not apply to
sheepskins purchased or held bona fide by a fell-
monger for fellmongoring in Australia to a quantity
not exceeding normal supplies for his fellmongering
plant, provided a return of the quantity so held
is furnished to the Central Wool Committee on Qr
before the 28th day of April, 1920, or within such
fourteen days as aforesaid, as the case may bei
Dated the ninth dav of April, 1920.
(Sgd.) W. M. HUGHES,
Prime Minister.
Commercial Activities Act 1919.
War Precautions (Wool) Regulations.
Wool to be made Available for
Appraisement.
t WILLIAM MORRIS HUGHES, Prime Minister of
-1, the Commonwealth of Australia, in pursuance
of the War Precautions (Wool) Regulations' (Com-
mercial Activities Act 1919) and upon the recom-
mendation of the Central Wool Committee, do by
this notice: —
(a) require every person, firm and company now
holding or having under his or its control
any stock or stocks of wool of the value of
£5O or over which has or have not been
appraised under the said Regulations to
make available on or before the 28th day
of April, 1920, such stock or stocks of
wool for appraisement ; and -
(5) require every- person, firm and company' at any
time after the date of this notice and before
the 30th day of June, 1920, holding or hav-
ing under his or its control any stock or
stocks of wool of the value of £so’ or over
which has or have not been appraised under
the said Regulations to make available
within fourteen days from the date on which
such stock or stocks of wool is or are first
held or had under his or its control, such
stock or stocks of wool i'or appraisement.
Dated the ninth day of April, 1920.
(Sgd.) W. M. HUGHES,
Prime Minister.


QoT&ejfJjl
w.
f
O
9
a
isa
A
<£•
Ci'j
TheLAGER
IthoutaßiVal
m
A
A
i.j
“Warrigal” Underwear
HEAVYWEIGHT at a MODERATE PRICE
Peapes’ “Warrigal” Australian Underwear is made in an admixture
of wool and cotton, as well as in all pure wool.
The wool and cotton texture is a specially strong weave, while
smooth in the seams and soft to the touch. A heavyweight ensuring
comfort and /warmth for Winter is here quoted the prices showing
a way to economise on cold-weather underwear while getting goods
of proven quality—vouched for by the “Warrigal” trade-mark.
Heavyweight Wool and Cotton Undershirts
Please State chest and waist measurement.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Kissing Time”
Criterion “Three Wise Fools"
Palace “Tiger Rose”
Tivoli “Bran Pie”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Town Hall (29th) Evans-Gange Concert
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s .“Passing Show of 1920”
Royal “Yes, Uncle”
King’s “The Little Damozel”
Princess's Carter the Mysterious
Tivoli “The Man from Toronto”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba ... Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Gi.aciarium Dancing
Palais de Dance (St. Kihla) Dancing
From a Sundry Shows man :
Whoever “produced” the Prince’s landing act in
Sydney should lose his job. The star’s entrance
was a dead frost, despite the S. M. Herald's asser-
tion that it was greeted with “roaring cheers and
shrieking syrens.” I was in a launch within 20
yards of the pontoon—in the wings, so to speak.
Guns were fired, svrens shrieked, and people yelled
as a launch tore towards us down the avenue of
boats —and some sailors got out. More guns, more
cheering and another launch ; and from this one
Governor Davidson emerged, looking friendly ahd
well-meaning, but preposterous in a hat which was
the comic spirit of all the ages translated into
feathers. Further uproar and another launch; and.
the Governor-General was greeted by the same group
of military men and mutes. In the distance yet
another launch appeared. Enthusiasm was by this
time pretty well dead. When a young sailor was
observed to be standing up in the stern saluting
he was taken by many to be the usual
sailor. As a matter of fact this one was the Prince.
And, as though to effectually withdraw from him
the last faint gleam of limelight, a fool-aviator
zoomed down to within 50 feet of his head and
went roaring away on a mad course with the
eyes of 95 per cent, of the crowd following him.
Of course the “Prince’s barge” should have been
a barge. Something distinctive, and preferably pro-
pelled by oars, as the royal barge on the Thames
is. One of the few things done with anything like
efficiency was the light-comedy business of the offi-
cials. The wigs of the Judges looked deliciously
idiotic in such a setting; and Speaker Danny Levy
(who, with a thing like a sheepskin on his head,
was being ignored by Nationalists and taken no
particular notice of by Laborites) provided some
of the heartiest laughs of the show.
“Tiger Rose,” now blooming at Syd-
ney Palace, is a strenuous three-act Cana-
dian drama that blows out suddenly like its
own record stage-thunderstorm and is left
gasping for breath when the curtain goes up
for the third act. The author has laid about
him so vigorously that only a resurrection
of the murdered man could get the shooting-
hero off; and, as it isn’t a miracle play, the
thing can’t be done, and there is a weak
comedy tail to the tragedy.
Marie Ilka meets Sydney for the first
time as Rose Boscion, the French-Canadian
ward of a kindly Scotch factor who bosses
his Hudson Bay trading-post in a lonely
place where a Carmenesque young woman
who swears like a man shines by compari-
“The Man from
Toronto,” at
Melbourne Tivoli.
George Tully as
Fergus Wimbush.
son with waddling
Indian squaw r s. All
the younger men
are in love with
her, and the list
includes a red-
coated member of
t h e North-West
Mounted Po 1 ic e.
But the lady be-
stows her love on
a young surveyor
from a neighboring
camp who has met
her several times
in the clearing.
While the police-
ma n is visiting
the post, the sur-
veyor meets the
man who ruined
his sister and
shoots the villain
dead. (It is done
off-stage, and the
audience gets it
second-hand.) The
policeman, advised
by ’phone, starts
off with a col-
league to capture
the murderer, who,
however, is found
first by his sweet-
heart’s faithful
Indian and se-
creted in the cellar
of the factor’s house. (All done between
Acts 1 and 2 while the playgoers are
having a smoke.) In the second act there
is a noisy stage thunderstorm, during which
the hunted man is brought out of the cellar
and tells his story to his sweetheart and the
doctor she has coaxed into the conspiracy.
In Act 3 the doctor finds that the murdered
man w 7 as the very seducer he wanted to kill,
because the lady was his wife. These and
other matters having been put right, there
is a rustling of straw, and out of an un-
searched bunk by the wall leaps the trium-
phant policeman. His triumph is spoiled
by Rose, who shoots his revolver out of his
hand. The lover flies by instructions, and
the lady and the doctor settle down to keep
the policeman prisoner till daylight. Dawn
breaks most artistically, and, preceded by
the district’s dear old priest, the fugitive
comes in tamely to surrender, and the doctor
hurries out to beg the Canadian Government
to be merciful and remind it how 7 he saved
the poor Indians when the great chilblain
epidemic broke out.
* * * *
The play gives Miss Ilka all the fat on a
dish, and the little star is so full of fire
and sparkle that it fizzles nicely. But her
beloved Bruce Norton (Frank Hatherley)
is such a transitory, trap-door stowaway
that her passion for him seems un-
reasonable. He doesn’t measure up to the
heroic specifications .supplied to the police
by the author, and even the Indians take
turns at shoving him round, lie might as
well be a wax figure on castors. The police-
man (Ethan Allen) is a fine virile type who
Ross Smith lecturing at the Sydney Lyceum
on his world-flight.
swaggers beautifully, works hard and de-
serves the prisoner he is robbed of and the
girl he doesn’t get. Douglas Ross (who also
“produces”’ the play) is full of the whisky
of human kindness as Hector McCollins,
the Scotch factor. John Waller stalks
through the play as the bearded Dan Cusick.
the morose frontier doctor, and Robert
Purdie dodders as Father Thibault, the aged
priest. “Tiger Rose” is staged with line
attention to detail. The dawn comes up with
everything but the early rooster, and the
Taits’ water bill for the first-act rain Will
eat into the takings.
Having got over the gala performance for
the Prince. Her Majesty’s is once more offer-
ing “Kissing Time” to Sydney at the usual
prices. On the morning of the great show
J.C.W., Ltd., gravely intimated that there
were “still a few gallery seats available at
fl 2s. 9d.” It’s enough to make old, busted
managers choke.
“Bran Pie” stiil sends out its call to Syd-
ney from the Tivoli and begs the faithful to
come along and admire Miss Lee White.
Harry Kaigh Eustace keeps on filling the
Plavhouse with jungle beasts, and young
Sydney sits in the front stalls with grandad
and looks the filmed tiger in the eye.
Ross Smith flies his Vickers-Vimy at Syd-
ney Lyceum all this week : and “Ruling Pas-
sions”' gets the loud cheer from the on-
lookers when hate and avarice and revenge
are rooted out of an old misanthrope’s heart
by the nurse who brings him his hot-water
bottle and takes his temperature with the
right degree of sympathy. At the Strand.
Elsie Janis, billed as “The Diggers’ Darling,”
goes through a Bowdlerised “De Luxe Annie”
experience—with the same old shock to
restore her mental balance and wedding-bells
waiting on the horizon. Haymarket and
Globe put Elsie Ferguson on trial for the
murder of her husband, but with one superb
turn of her white throat Elsie has the jury
fixed.
Sydney Criterion’s “Three Wise Fools”
doddered to crowded houses all last week;
and they look like continuing to do it inde-
finitely/ A subtly suggestive touch, which
many miss, is provided by the furniture. No
trio of rich men would stand it unless they
were fools. It is attention to such details :
as this that lifts play-producing to the level
of an art.
The art and personality of Moiseiwitsch
captured the musical world in Melbourne
as in Sydney. That is to say, the wider
world which includes, in addition to nervous
souls who eat, drink, sleep and chatter
music from the Conservatorium to the grave,
a reasonable public that wants high-class
musical entertainment sometimes only, but
wants it good. Moiseiwitsch is a rare occa-
sional pianist, born to attract people who
watch the performer’s fingers all the time,
and other folk who care not twopence how
the feat is accomplished as long as they can
hear it and feel it. His capacity for pro-
ducing orchestral effect from the box of sounds
was wonderfully displayed last Saturday in
Liszt’s arrangement of the "Tannhauser” over-
ture. Previously the Russian master of the
keyboard had dealt caressingly with Chopin
and sympathetically with Schumann, whilst
his more frivolous friend Palmgren was not
forgotten. This Saturday he will account
for another crowd being carried away at
the Town Hall. Other events in view at the
• same building are a municipal concert due
to-night (24th), whereat Pattie Russell will
warble, and a Horace Stevens concert on
Thursday next week; also a Symphony
Orchestra night, with Alberto Zelman to
the fore, dated 29th.
Melbourne has already got used to the
idea of straight comedy at the Tivoli, so
“The Man from Toronto” goes strong. The
performance, which makes a good first im-
pression, improves on acquaintance, and
would seem to grow smoother had it not been
perfectly smooth on the first night. Even
with a less efficient company “The Man
from Toronto” would make a popular enter-
tainment, for though the action is light and
humorous the plot insists upon being taken
half-seriously, and a plot which owes most
of its idea to Goldsmith and something to
Dickens has a strong claim on public inter-
est. The pretty widow of the story is a
modern edition of Kate Hardcastle, placed
in the same circumstances as was Bella
Wilfer (“Our Mutual Friend”) by an old
man’s last will and testament. She and
the man in the name part are bound to
marry if they want to cut up the four mil--
lion dollars of the deceased, but they both
of them offer the suggestion that neither
would willingly marry for aught but Love,
with a capital L. For that matter, they can
both afford to be sentimental, though the
lady, to be sure, is warned by uncle that
she will have to meet her own overdrafts
at the bank in the future if she declines to
act . reasonably on the marriage question.
She elects to act reasonably. The dramatist
has provided that the kind-hearted stranger
from Canada shall be as artless and unsus-
picious as a penguin at the South Pole. The
widow could find only one fault with her
prescribed husband. He’s too easy. Which
remark applies also to the gentleman's for-
midable-looking elder sister from Canada,
and the festive flapper who wins a hurdle
race from a University boy.
At Melbourne Princess’s the passing ol
“Our Selection” will leave the stage clear
for Wizard Carter on Saturday. With the
magician aforesaid comes Evelyn Maxwell,
whose specialty is the revelation of the
innermost 1 secrets of your soul.
At Melbourne Majesty’s the binging of the
Boys on Broadway will terminate this Fri-
day, and on Saturday comes “The Passing
Show of 1920.” The current year has only
half passed, but the remaining portion is
full of possibilities for conjecture, and in the
field of prophecy ,one can safely lay odds on
a revue.
The end of “The Little Damosel,” at Mel-
bourne King’s, will arrive next week at the
latest. “Kindling” copies next on the bill
of fare, the Polini co. for this production
being .supplemented by Maggie Moore and
Roberts.
At Melbourne Royal the fact that “Yes,
Uncle!” becomes more animated after 9
p.m. ought to be loudly insisted on lest a
painfully slow commencement should drive
pessimists in the audience to despair. Hap-
penings in the studio of William Greene,
the alleged idol of womankind, lack both
ginger and the promise of ginger. Nor is
the ginger at all hot in the audience’s mouth
after the arrival of Field Fisher, as a
fatuous “Kissing Time” uncle who insists on
mistaking a virtuous unmarried, couple for
a wedded pair of relatives. The characters
have no punch. Even Madge Elliott, the
soubrette of the studio, gets no scope for
indiscretion. So at last one is sorry to
think that “Yes, Uncle!” must have been
borrowed timidly from the French and
stripped of its guilty insinuations. But the
second act is at least lively in a conventional
way. Many girls wear many dresses, the
movement —on moss-grown lines —is fairly
rapid, and it is a frocky final ballroom scene
that meets the large, round eyes of Grade
Laver.
Theda Bara has returned to the siren busi-
ness in “The She Devil” at Hoyt’s, Mel-
bourne. Most of
“The Man from
Toronto ,” at
Melbourne Tivoli.
Ronald Ward as
Bobbie Gilmore.
the story is laid in
Spain, where
Theda can safely
hold a knife in her
teeth and show off
a personality o f
dynamite and
honey. Another
tempestuous cit i-
zen, Frank Mayo,
strides Hoyt’s
screen, bashes
lumber-camp bullies
to pulp, and gener-
ally realises the
peculiarities o f
Rex Beach heroes.
Mayo’s vehicle is
called “The Brute
Breaker” and pic-
tures some very
fine scenery. Olive
Thomas, the Selz-
nick heroine, is on
view at Lloyt’s
Lyceum in “Out
Yonder”; the Bri-
tannia flings
Norma Talmadge
on to “The Isle of
Conquest,” with
terrible results to
the . liberty of the
leading man ; and
the Melba is offer-
ing a gallery of
charming bush-
scales in the film version of Bland Holt s
“Breaking of the Drought.’
Digger and Dauber too
The soldier artists exhibiting at the Melbourne
Athenaium would have made a deeper impression by
excluding the potboilers and showing the remainder
in a smaller room. Certainly H. M. Paterson s
panel of 35 could have been well reduced to a
dozen. A landscape, “Early Winter,’’ is his most
graceful canvas ; most of the others are flat. C.
I.evshon W r hite, over-represented with 38 subjects,
often exhibits the soul of a poster designer, but he
hangs an old mill and a “Summer Afternoon” that
prevent one despairing for his future. George Ben-
son’s greatest is “Blind Man’s Buff, a study of
costume and color in a wayward Watteau manner.
Louis McCubbin has four landscapes, the best
whereof is “Bush Study” which is notable for the
dexterous rendering of half-lights among trees. F.
R. Crozier’s Egyptian sketch is a more soothing
performance than the pretentiously careless sketch
of timber-getters. George Colville is another un-
certain colorist, but in his “Flemish Farm” his
prejudice has succumbed to his veracity. A wind-
mill is the most likeable of W. R. Coleman’s col-
lection, but there is nothing in F v Latimer’s little
lot to start a connoisseur searching for his cheque-
book. Demiis Connelly, the only black and whiter,
reveals the winsome features of flappers and some
of the points of Billy Hughes and other immortals;
whilst the solitary etcher, David Barker, translates
into line some of the light and shade of Jerusalem
and Jaffa.
Revue in one form or another is the stand-
ing dish in Adelaide. Taits’ Diggers con-
tinue to drop new songs and business into
“Mademoiselle Mimi” at the King s. Lind-
say Kemble is a bit older than he was when
fined some years back for successful ‘female
impersonation” in the street, but he still
makes an effective girl. The co. has a rol-
licking ballad about a military representa-
tive ; but it might make the girl in one ot
its favorite songs something other than
“darky.” (We must borrow America’s music,
it seems; but Australia’s taste is otherwise.)
At the Tivoli “Tails tip” is a better show
than its predecessor, relying less on London
jokes about food-rationing and the treatment
of German prisoners. Billy Elliott is hereby
cordially invited to cut out his patter about
the private lives of his stage-colleagues. For
other tastes there is the quieter, cleverer
work of Ellis Holland ; and Minnie Love is
a whole army corps. More Diggers are
just starting at the Royal. “Ginger Mick
is the biggest thing in sight in the picture
line; Tauehert repeats his “Bloke” suc-
cess, and Emery gets the limelight as one
of the Gallipoli boys. It is doing big busi-
ness at West’s. Wondergraph replies with
the glorious voice of Carl Formes, while
Dorothy Dalton and Billie Burke look on
from the screen. At the Pav. LI. B. Warner
is powerfully dramatic in “A Woman’s
Honor.” Eslick has some sort of “carnival”
at the Palais de Danse every evening and
a joyous new ad. in the papers every
morning. _______
“Peter” : Bertram Mackennal’s equestrian
statue of Edward VII.. which has just been
hoisted into position in the Alexandra Gar-
dens, Melbourne, speaks truly of the cocked
hat and uniform, but only provides a pass-
able likeness of the man and gives him a
quaint pair of outspread legs. The trouble
with the monarch is that he is sitting on a
horse too broad in the beam to let the royal
legs dangle. You will best notice the unreal-
ity of the old King’s supports from a south-
east aspect at the rear of the animal, but
the error won’t spoil your enjoyment of the
lines of his charger.


Murdoc
CIS
10 Per Cent.
(2 1- in the £)
Sale
Commences
JUNE 25
HATS AND CAPS
at Healthy Reductions
‘Where the good Hats are” you’ll find
a size and style to suit you at sub-
stantial savings.
Australian Fur Felts, all shades, with
black band and bow.
Usually IG/0 each.
Less 10 p.c. discount 1/8
SALE PRICE 14/10
Murdoch’s Special FELT HATS, all
shades, with GJin. brim ; also in
Myrtle, Reseda or Ivy Mixture
Shades, with 2Mn. fiat brim.
Usually S/ll
Less 10 p.c. discount -/ll
SALE PRICE 8/-
I'ure Wool Tweed Lounge Hats, with
self bands. Sizes 0.4 to 7|-.
Usually 7/6
Less 10 p.c. discount -/9
SALE PRICE 6/9
The Reductions apply to All
Goods (excepting Tobacco)
ordered between June 25 and
July 10 inclusive.
Save 10 per cent, on
HOSIERY.
Even if yon are well provided with
Socks right now, you will be wise
to purchase more at these prices.
Black Cotton Half-Hose, fast dye, all
sizes.
Usually 2/11
Less 10 p.c. discount -/4
SALE PRICE ”2/7 pr.
British-made Black Cotton Half-Hose,
soft finish. All sizes.
Usually 3/6
Less 10 p.c. discount -/4
SALE PRICE .. .
3/2 pr.
All-wool Black Cashmere Half-
Hose, all men’s sizes.
Usually 4/11
Less lO p.c. discount -/6
SALE PRICE
4/5 pr.
Jason All-wool Tan or Grey Half-
Hose. als.o in Black with Ver-
tical stripes. All sizes.
Usually 6/6
Less 10 p.c. discount -/8
SALE PRICE .... 5/10 pr.
Despite the almost daily fluctuation in prices, and other
commercial difficulties, Murdoch’s will commence their
10 per cent. DISCOUNT SALE ON FRIDAY, JUNE 25
for 14 days UNTIL JULY 10.
Taße Advantage of
the Big' Reductions.
Every line (excepting Tobacco and “Stetson” Hats) has been
reduced 10 per cent. Many items specially reduced by 50
per cent. This is your opportunity to save money at a time
when the H. C. of L. is keeping your purse tight.
See Our Bargain Window Displays
o
o
Reduction
on Tailoring.
■
IF you desire to pur-
. .
chase a suit-to-measure
at the Reduced Prices
it is advisable to write to
DESK R for patterns, at
once. The 10 per cent,
discount is only available
from Friday, June 25,
until July 10, inclusive.
Whilst every facility will
be extended to country
customers we emphasise
the importance of making
first and second choice
when selecting from pat-
terns.
Suits to measure—Usually 84/-
Less 1 0 per cent.. . 8/5
SALE PRICE . . . 75/7
Suits to measure—Usually 95/-
Less 10 per cent.. . 9/6
SALE PRICE . 85|6
Suits to measure—Usually 110/-
Less 10 per cent.. . 11/-
SALE PRICE .
Suits to measure—Usually 126/-
Less 1 0 per cent.. . 12/6
SALE PRICE . 113/6
Suits to measure—Usually 150/-
Less 1 0 per cent.. . 15/-
SALE PRICE . 13 51-
Suits to measure—Usually 185/-
Less 1 0 per cent.. . 18/6
SALE PRICeJ^OI^
ALL
GOODS
POST FREE TO YOOR DOOR
ALL
GOODS
PLEASE NOTE.—To avoid
disappointment, in event of
some lines being sold out, it is
absolutely necessary to make a
first and second selection, and
state if we may send the nearest
style or quality if your exact
requirements are not available.
Concludes
JOLYIO
iA
Savings on SHIRTS.
Lay in a stock of shirts now; over-
sea advices indicate increased
prices on materials.
ZEPHYR GOLF SHIRTS, in neat
striped designs, with soft cult's
and linen neckband. All sizes.
Usually 8/11
Less 10 p.c. discount -/ll
SALE PRICE
8/-
'BENCH CAMB R I C GOLF
SHIRTS, striped designs. Rein-
forced neckbands. Detachable
soft collars. All sizes.
Usually 11/G
Less 10 p.c. discount 1/2
SALE PRICE
10/4
WORKING SHIRTS, striped Har-
vard strong material, light or
dark patterns. Strongly sewn, and
gusseted throughout. All sizes
Usually 8/11
Less 10 p.c. discount -/ll
SALE PRICE
8/-
The Reductions apply to AH
Goods (excepting Tobacco)
ordered between June 25 and
July 10 inclusive.
advt
io
Per
Cent.
off
“Armourite” Footwear.
“Armourite” is a special tanning pro-
cess which “gives double wear- to
every pair.” At these exceptional re-
ductions you’ll find double savings in
every pair.
Murdoch s “Armourite” Boots,
black to tan, medium round
toes, with or without toe-
cap.
Usual Price . . . . 34/6
Less 10% Discount .. 3/6
SALE PRICE . . 31/-
Watch the Sydney dailies for
our Sale advertisements. You’ll
find substantial reductions on
wearing apparel of excellent
quality.
MURDOCH’S in Park St. Ltd., SYDNEY
The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store
(Attained through Consistent Service to tHe People).


r® '«'■
k;
Special
Price,
126
The CO-SHIRT
or 3 for 36/-
Post
Free.
HERE’S ABOUT THE BEST BUY IN SHIRTS.
It’s of good, strong Khaki—stand any amount of wear—besides being hard to soil.
For knocking about the Farm—in the Milking Shed or Boundary Riding as a
useful garment it simply has no equal.
Note the two pockets and well-fitting collar—good enough in appearance to allow
you to dispense with wearing a coat.
Special Price 12/6, or 3 for 36/-
FINNEY. ISLES ®. CO. LIMITED.
The Store for Men BRISBANE.
POVERTY
POINT
MOET &
CHANDON
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
The second and third nets of “The Boss
Cocky,” the all-Australian comedy by Ran-
dolph Bedford, which opens at the Victoria
Theatre, Newcastle, on June 20 and plays
in Brisbane from July 17, are based on the
author’s experience at Fossilbrook in North
Queensland when the monsponal rains
flooded the rivers and Bedford and 50 other
men were caught for a fortnight between
the Einasleigh apd the Lynd. Among the
many quaint types that forced themselves
to the author’s study for that fortnight was
a cheerful traveller who proclaimed by day
and night, at intervals of an hour or two
while the monsoon registered rain in feet,
the tremendous news, “The tank’s full.”
From the Fossilbrook experience and two
human stories of the Far North has been
adapted “The Boss Cocky,” which breaks
new ground in Australian stage art.
“Fax”: Marie Rignold, here with the
Courtneidge Comedy Co., recalls Van Biene
and his “Broken Melody.” This Miss Rig-
nold, one of three sisters who have shown
their family talent on the Australian stage,
was Van Biene’s leading lady, and played
the duchess who was supposed to have fas-
cinated the long-haired ’cellist, and to be
the explanation of why Van Biene left home.
Her elder sister, Bessie, is remembered as
the niece whom George Rignold had in his
company for a while, and whom he much
embarrassed on one occasion when she was
playing Marguerite to his Mephisto. She
was uttering her despair on the doorstep of
the Cathedral, and the deep rich tones of a
devil who was not supposed to be. either
visible or audible were heard counselling her
to go slow. “Take your time, Bessie”—the
words rang out like the cry of “Excelsi-or”
on the startled air, and the audience empha-
sised Uncle’s advice with a round of
applause. Dora, the other Rignold sister,
was the tall, handsome young thing who
played Oberon in a beautiful production of
“Midsummer Night’s Dream,” and Viola in
“Twelfth Night.” The charm of her sweet
“TIGER ROSE," AT
SYDNEY PALACE.
Rose ( Maric Ilka) promises sudden death
to Michael Devlin (Ethan Allan) should
he try to leave.
and gentle personality and musical voice
cling to one’s recollection. The sisters are
daughters of. George Rignold’s big brother
William, a fine, virile actor who was driven
from the stage by blindness. He was near-
ing that calamity when he visited Australia
and was FalstafE in his brother s Merry
Wives.”
“Stargazer’’: “Yes, Uncle!” is the most
belated comic opera that has been produced
in Melbourne for years. It does not wake
up till the last act, and then not till two
scenes have been submitted and removed.
Meanwhile the stage has been given up
largely to a hoarse uncle from India, who
finds two people in his nephew’s room pre-
tending to be his nephew and his nephew’s
wife, and he makes them kiss and canoodle,
much as rich uncles have done in two thou-
sand (perhaps not more than 1999) previous
comedies wherein the nephew had to pre-
tend he was married in order to satisfy the
idiosyncrasies of his affluent, oleaginous
avuncular relation. The low comedian pre-
tends to be a salesman selling calico, and
measures off imaginary material at great
length, which also has been done before on
211 occasions. The hero is a newly-married
artist complicated with his models —not so
new a situation as to create a feeling of
consternation. Then when people are feel-
ing for their wraps and wondering if the
rain has stopped, the dashed thing wakes
up with whoop-hooroo in a brilliant white-
and-black setting, with a pile of gorgeous
dresses, and lashir.s of light and color. True,
the operatic events are still rather distrait,
but if “Yes, Uncle!” were taken violently
in hand, its hind parts wrenched round in
front, and its front parts discarded in favor
of something entirely different, it might be
made an excellent Australian night’s enter-
tainment.
From London : Barrie has almost outdone
his own record for the fantastic in his latest
play, “Mary Rose.’’ The heroine, a young
mother, is picnicking on a Scotch island,
when she comes under fairy influence and
disappears. In
exact accordance
with local legend,
she is found on the
same spot 25 years
later, unchanged
in appearance, and
with no idea that
anything has hap-
pened or that any
time has passed.
When she finds
that her husband
is elderly, and that
her boy has run
away from him,
she dies of the
shock ; and the last
act is an interview
between her ghost
and her son, now
an Australian sol-
dier, who has reso-
lutely waited for
her in the home
reputed haunted.
All the work falls
on Fay Compton
as the unchanging
hei’oine and Rob-
ert Loraine as the
young husband,
middle-aged ditto
"Tiger Rose," at
Sydney Palace.
Douglas Ross as
Hector McGollins.
and son. Barrie has ... .
drawn Billjim on the stereotyped British
plan—big, reliable and a rough diamond.
“Peg-Leg”: I wrote a Bulletin par
recently about the picture slump and the
resurrection of vaudeville. Union Theatres,
the big movie people, are now butting into
song-and-dance, and have established a de-
partment for the production of pierrot shows
and revues. These will go into all the farm s
houses which have a stage, and will subse-
quently be toured through the suburban
shows. The move is being undertaken to
satisfy the public demand for musical bur-
lesque and restore interest in the films.
“Boxter” : Fred Ward, who has been pit-
ting bright ideas against tough luck for
years, has adapted the movie-serial scheme
to the stage. He has written a series ot
six one-act sketches, each story complete. in
itself, yet having a connecting link with
the other five. There are a couple of crooks,
a detective, a ber-utiful girl, as much drama
as a 30-reel serial, and as many spectacular
stunts as a stage will permit. The infant
has been temporarily christened ‘The Car-
lingford Millions.” and the first shivery
episode will be “The Death Jazz. Fullers,
whooping over the chance to get one back
at the “flicks,” will put on a new thrill
every week for six weeks, with Ward him-
self rescuing the lovely lady from the blazing
perils of a smoke-box.
“Agar”: There were not very many
••ountry people in Melbourne for the Prince’s
visit, but I found two genuine busbies in one
of the picture-theatres. When the lights
were turned up at the interval, Bluegum
began to notice the gradual slope of the
floor, and turned to his mate with the in-
formation that “the place must ha’ bin built
on a gully.”
“Balded”: You don’t (or rather didn’t)
have to go to South America to hear a warn-
ning-bell before lights-up in a picture-show.
There was a movie house in one of the fash-
ionable Melbourne suburbs —it enjoyed a
large patronage of flappers and escorts at its
Saturday matinfie —where a warning was
given by a buzzer from the operator s box.
In addition the proprietor added oUtt. or
‘•The End” as a further precaution. me
show fell into other hands last March, an
the flappers now seek their amusement else-
where.
“Midchannel”: Apropos old friend Hugh
Buckler in London and his versatility (L>-
27/5/’2O). While “Buck” was running the
Little Theatre in Sydney, his versatility was
always being put to the test. W hen not
playing a leading part he was rehearsing
another, and when doing neither he was
conjuring up ingenious devices for dodging
creditors. The best part he ever played
was not Hilary Jesson in “His House in
Order,” but on board a stgamer at Sydney-
bound for Maoriland. One really nasty
creditor sent someone with a scrap of blue
paper to serve on him on board, and tlieieby
scotch his trip. But the wily Buck had got
wind of this, donned the garb of one of the
ship’s stokers, and search proved fruitless.
In the end the writ remained unserved.
Most of the company on board thought that
Buckler had missed the boat or had dived
overboard until he made his appearance at
tjje dinner table about three hours alter
Sydney Heads were cleared.
“Norbell”: When melodrama was really
melo-drama, and seasoned with song, old Ned
Holloway was a “singing juvenile.” He
told ine. with a glow of pride, that lie had
been the first man to sing “The Red, White
and Blue" in Australia, introducing it in a
drama at the old Iron Pot in Melbourne on
the night that the news came of the fall of
Sebastopol. In ’9B I travelled with the
Dampier Co., which included old Nod. on a
steamer from Rockhampton to ToWnsville.
The original “Trilby” Co. was also on board,
including veteran H. R. Harwood. Regina
Nagel, the contralto who sang “Ben Bolt
off stage in “Trilby,” obliged with that item
at the usual saloon concert, and I heard old
Harwood, reminding old Holloway of how
he, Holloway, had sung that same ballad in
“Ben Bolt” under Harwood’s management in
the bitter past. The two old boys agreed
that there was nothing new on the stage,
and that these things used to be done a d—d
sight better in their day.
“Fax”: As far as Melbourne is concerned
the front name of Courtneidge should be
Jonah. Years ago he staged a beautiful pro-
duction of “Midsummer Night’s Dream” at
Melbourne Princess’s, and ere the theatre
had been crowded for more than a fortnight
there came an engine-drivers’ strike which
burst the boom, and a still more beautiful
production of “As You Like It” didn’t, draw
one packed house. Now, as soon as he stages
a play in Melbourne, a strike stops electric
trams from running at all, or cable trams
from running in the evening; also it takes
money out of the community’s pocket and
turns its heart against frivolous entertain-
ment. The coincidence is remarkable —
unless strikes are becoming so common that
nobody nowadays can come to Melbourne
without bumping against one.
“Peg-Leg” : The screen’s influence on cer-
tain members of the stage is not sad as
many cases as “Stargazer” (B. 17/6/’2O)
thinks. I know several local pros, who thank
their voluntary or compulsory dash into the
movies for the comfortable little “legitimate”
contracts thev now have. In vaudeville the
influence is more apparent. Arthur Tauchert
was just a black-face corner-man before Ray-
mond Longford chose him as “the Senti-
mental Bloke.” His earnings in vaudeville
weren’t large, nor would his screen screw
make Charlie Chaplin jealous: but now that
he has gone back into the red-nose business
his name is good enough to draw for miles
around, and put £lB a week into his paw.
Old playwright Henry Arthur Jones has
issued a sort of manifesto, explaining why
he has not staged a new play in London for
years. He says he has four waiting, two
of them great successes in America: but
England hasn’t the players. It is not swank.
“The Middleman.” he says modestly, owed
its success to Willard, and “The Liars” to
Wyndham :
At the present time I could not, even with all
the London stage to choose from, produce any of
my past successes in serious drama with a cast at
all equal to the original. Compared with corres-
ponding performers on the French stage, most of
our actors are amateurs. In the rendering of vivid
passion and emotion I think Americans may claim
that, for every accomplished actress in this class
that the English stage can show, the American stage
can show 10 or a dozen. What great Shakspeareari
actress have we to-day? For modern work, what
have we at all comparable with Mrs. Kendal, Amy
Roselle, and a dozen others of the last generation ?
“Stargazer”: “Harrison O.” says Mary
Pickford’s success on the films seems to have
been won “chiefly by a pretty face and a
repertoire of grimaces.” But there are thou-
sands of girls with pretty faces and a reper-
toire of grimaces who are trying to be
picture-actresses, and there remains only one
Mary Pickford. And her face, by the way,
is more pleasing than pretty.
“Orb”: Fred Moyes, now with Robert
Courtneidge’s co.. was here in ’O9 with
Nellie Stewart’s “Sweet Kitty Bellairs” co.,
and was a repaarkably fine Lord Jeffreys in
“Sweet Nell.”
“Peg-Leg” : In their argument about the
respective merits of stage and screen stars
(B. 10/6/’2O), “Harrison O.” and “Star-
gazer” both lose sight of the fact that the
dramatic and photo-dramatic arts are dif-
ferent as hop-beer and meth. There is more
in being a film-star than learning a few tricks
AFTER THE SHOW.
“Beastly rotten company !”
“Oh, don’t say that, my deyr. I have quite
enjoyed your being with me."
of the trade, for she (they’re mostly she)
must have dramatic ability to hold the inter-
est of great audiences. And the picture-
show audience is more intelligent than the
average dramatic critic will admit. The
screen failure of prominent legitimate
players points to the fact that on the boards
they have relied more on voice than on per-
sonality. They have spent their lives de-
veloping a sobby intonation that will send
thrills down the spine of the gallery patron,
whereas the screeners have put in their time
developing a personality that is felt even in
pantomime. And sometimes that is the
harder task. The “Harrison 0.” yarn that
no Plain Jane ever made good in films is
the sort of stuff Williamson’s press-agents
used to send out in an attempt to cruel the
movies’ pitch. Mae Marsh is one of the
plainest-featured young women I have ever
seen, yet she is among the biggest money-
getters in the. picture business. In Los
Angeles last year I met a lot of stars off-
screen, and not many of them would get
a place in a Tivoli beauty contest. The
gentle art of eameraflage makes up for the
deficiency. But these aids to beauty must
not be counted against them. Margaret
Anglin, Ethel Irving and Marie Tempest
may have achieved stage success without
any great physical attractions,_ but that de-
ficiency was no fault of their own. I’d
like to have a penny for every stick of make-
up and every pot of cold cream their
dressers used on them.
“Mid-Channel’’: The belief that, Mary
Pickford has extraordinary beauty is quite
unfounded. She has a fair claim to good
looks, but in American picture-houses I saw
many who outshone her completely yet
weren’t within gunshot of being stars.
Both on the speaking stage and on the film
an aspiring artist must possess, not just
perfect facial beauty, but a personality.
There are scores of first-raters on the speak-
ing stage who wouldn’t shine on the film
because their features and actions won’t
“photograph” well. Others not so prepos-
sessing in appearance but more impressive
in their actions take better pictures. Hence
their success.
“Balded”: Union Theatres (with which
Australasian Films, Ltd., is associated) have
submitted to suburban showmen a scheme
for putting their interests into a co. to be
know as Greater Sydney Theatres. Ltd.
With the backing the Greater Sydney
Theatres scheme would give them, they
could say to outside filimexchanges: “We
will only'give you so much for the release of.
your fiim at Union Theatres, and if you
don’t take it you won’t be able to get into
any of the suburban shows controlled by
us.” Then they could point out to inves-
tors the folly of putting good money into
anv new suburban theatre when the pick of
the film is held by an already-established
local show. But Union Theatres are Ending
it a tough job to persuade some suburban
shows that there’s anything in it for them.
TAILS UP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There never was an actor worse
Than Horace Fitzenstarts,. who still,
In spite of notices adverse,
A fond delusion used to nurse
That some day he would head the bill.
To Yass some weary mummers came
To play the local School of Arts.
Their drama was “Her Hidden
And from the posters flared the name,
In red, of Horace Fitzenstarts.
O’er beers 1 praised his strength of will
To win such fame. “You’re putting it
Too strong,’’ moaned Fitz- “We never fill.
And while, in truth, T head the bill,
I too, alas, am footing it.”
Jf.S.W.
BOB DEXTER.


HH
*
3SsB@saP
Jis]
■
*««
: '>-V£- ' ’
«
>v
m
m$ $mM
$«?;»!
r—v.-.-s:
•«<•
WffZ
'W
«
,-.s-v ;
■
' A
I
vMHmB
&
pi
Mi
lit
t V‘;
m
Wm
m
m
■
*
■
*pr*
■
-
■. '■
#
531
s®
«►*
‘V
■■ ■ m 'i
a .
.
4 ?■ 44 5
a
M
. ■
*
V
a
<
v y
*,«•
sss['
13
:■: V
53
’
*
m
fi-
ll
• •
HI
*l
0
SflßliflSlSl
• \ .a- - •”•
•" 7l
ml
si
• i*'
H
mmm
WwW w-
>&% W£i%
?<m
g&SSK&SMtKraI
■ ? .. . / '
®s& i <&s* 'M&k i
ym&m
sH •'. isj
, v
si>' ">' p p '
Jr '"- J%
vpljHß
i - \ . <■& wS^
SeS*
lip ■ :
im
w«3
* : r'-
•. /
& ..
' < ■
?9B
* >- , ' - . J
■-'. •', SMM
8&X
W V
■
"
m
J
;%•> ~
/ ■ '
.
fS * "set v
' .' 3A
■ * j< ’ 'V 1 ■
.
, /
,
M a'M
r: ' ' . *..
KM
mgw
- .;. •
mm
Electric Light for the Country Home-
just like in the City.
k
Here is a complete self-operating outfit
that brings the delights of electricity to
the country home. You can have electric
light in every room, or out in the milking
shed, dairy or barn. Then think how
wonderful to have electric appliances such
as an electric toaster, sewing machine,
washing machine, iron or vacuum cleaner.
And for every-day use on the farm there’s a Utility
Motor that does many jobs, in half the time, that you
now do by hand.
You can do all these things with Western Electric Power and Light because
the battery is big and strong. The battery is the heart and soul of an
electric-lighting plant. An inferior battery is ruinous. Another point is
that the Western Electric Battery is charged the right way, and the engine
automatically stops when charging is complete. This is important, because
battery cost can be terrific if there is no automatic control.
Then, again, Western Electric Power and Light gives power in another way. You
can use the Engine for driving light machinery. Thus the plant gpaeg three
definite services. Don’t make the mistake of buying an outfit that is not
Don’t buy a plant that can’t earn its cost by doing other work. You want to be
able to use your lights, and at the same time have other electric benefits.
Compare it witH Other Plants.
BATTERY.—IBO Ampere Hours’ Capacity, at 8-hour rate of discharge. Intermittent
Rating, 288 Ampere Hours.
ENGINE.—3Mh.p., 4-cycle, kerosene driven. Air Cooled, Throttle Governed, and
feeds itself with fuel and oil.
GENERATOR.—ISOO Watts. CONTROL PANEL, which automatically controls the
charging and discharging of the battery. No expert knowledge is required.
In compactness and simplicity Western Electric Power and Light meets every desire.
It is giving the brightness and comforts of city life to many thousands of country
dwellers all over the world. And it’s easy to buy. Write for 20-page book, post
free, from
WESTERN ELECTRIC CO. (Australia) LTD.
192 CASIXEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 262 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
AGENTS—T. Tonks. Elizabeth Street, BRISBANE; Newton McLaren, Leigh Street, ADELAIDE ; Medhurst Electric
Co., Argyle Street, HOBART ; A. D. Riley & Co., Lambton Quay, WELLINGTON, N.Z. ; also at CHRISTCHURCH,
AUCKLAND, and DUNEDIN, N.Z.
Western Electric
Power and Light


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and CODLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCHS, LiniTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &
WMITIY
' . •- y i. ;
MAKERS
. - .• «.-V- vV.-.'; C:
'WT”~
V *
3IOBMB
303&1
msZas^t'^-M
S«aC*s
Hotel c/e Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL. Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold. Baths. Billiards.
Book now for Winter months.
Tariff from 15/- per day, or from
3% guineas per week.
Tel. Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
YOU Can Enjoy Perfect Health.
m
u
ASTHMA, INFLUENZA, HAY FEVER and ALL
BRONCHIAL TROUBLES are miraculously cured
by the aid of the
Mears’ Aural Nebulizer
which aims directly at the seat of the trouble,
affords instant relief, and very quickly effects
the absolute and lasting CURE.
Every day we receive fresh evidence of the
wonderful curative powers of the .Nebulizer
from happy people who have benefited frqm its
usage. Call and witness a or
write for particulars of our ABSOLUTE
GUARANTEE to refund your money in full
if you are not perfectly satisfied.'
We would riot dare make this statement
were we not trading on strictly honest lines,
and thoroughly convinced of the exceptional
qualities of this treatment.
The Cuarantee Proves its Bonafides.
The Mears Company (Inc.), Dept. 12,
T. M. ROY, Representative,
Bernard’s Building, 387 George Street, Sydney
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T LET TINKER
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
By attaching £2OOO to the Cup, £lOOO to
five other races and nothing less than £5OO to
the remaining events, the A.J.C. programme at
Randwick last week kept pace with the high cost of
oats. Israel gave Christendom a thorough trimming,
and Royalty did in its dough with the rest. The
education of Edward, Prince of Wales, as a punter
has been much neglected. He bets too pften and
spreads his money too far. In each of three races he
backed four horses, and they all lost. In the Cup
four carried the pi’incely savings. In 10 races on
two days he had 19 nags going. There was only
one winner '(seven to two) among the lot, and a
dead-heater (eight to one). At the end Sam Allen
had bagged £Bl .and disgorged £4 10s.
The Cantala Stakes winner Chal and V.R.C. chair-
man Mackinnon’s filly Bandurria were brought over
the Murray with designs on the two sprints. The
filly was mainly after the June Stakes, and one of
the biggest, wads ever wheeled up at Randwick went
on her. There was a hatful, too, for Aries ' and
another for Gambler’s Gold. Harrison couldn’t get
Bandurria to the barrier, and brought her back
the wrong way round. Aries got away a furlong too
late. Julia Grey, a frequent suburban failure,
hopped out bright and early and struggled on to
the end, carrying the miniature Son of Jack Gains-
ford, who made history aboard old Bungebah. She
was a IjpO-to-six chance. Chal was inconspicuous.
But on Saturday in the £lOOO Chester Plate he got
in front at five furlongs and remained there. Mel-
bourne supported him warmly at eights and sevens.
Pike got the heavily-backed Aries away well, but
she ran like a cow, finishing last, with Bandurria
half a length further on.
The St. Alwyne gelding Silverton, with 6st. lllb.,
stood out as the best-treated animal in the Cup
handicap, though about six of the 24 runners were
worth considering. But his third on the Thursday to
White Phast and Kenilford made the crowd turn to
that pair and to Accrington and lan ’Or. Accring-
ton had finished well on Thursday after coming from
a long way back. As he was taking off a stone,
Kenilford 161 b. and White Phast 91b., the cash
followed the arithmetic and what looked like “form.”
Silverton, ridden by Harry Robinson’s apprentice
Simmons, was always well up, and after chopping
lan ’Or down at the distance, battled out a gruelling
finish with Parkvale, assisted by Albert Wood. As
there wasn’t a whisker between them at the end,
they divided the. stake. Newcastle Cup-winner Red
Cardinal was a head too late. Kenilford went to
pieces at the end, and Accrington blew out over
the last furlong. Silverton goes to Westralia. He
has improved: out of sight since they gave up the
delusion that he was a sprinter. Parkvale’s place
at the end ought to be another reminder to Vie.
owners that there are some tasty pickings at
Randwick for even moderate stayers.
Old Compromise, who knows the easy Randwick
course well enough to jump it by starlight, took
the two steeples without much effort. There was a
protest each time j from the owner of the runner-up
Algous. Compromise was alleged firstly to have
“come over” on the second horse near the finish,
and on the next occasion to have run outside a post.
The stipes merely shook their heads. Lord Cecil
turned a , seven each day ; ■ in fact, on Saturday he
did it at the first fence. He now has a tally of
four falls in his last four starts. He was at threes
the first day and twos the second—and the Prince
had his bit on both times.
Both hurdle races went to Maorilanders —New-
castle Cup-winner Silent Way, originally brought over
the Tasman by one of the Studholmes, taking the
first, and Fisher being presented with the second by
Artilleryman’s half-brother Breastwork, who arrived
at the last fence with a lead of three lengths and
only enough steam left to topple him over in a heap.
Fisher, who had run a rotten race on the Thursday,
was second all the way on Saturday, till only half
a mile more was left to travel. When disaster
struck Breastwork he streamed home with half a
dozen lengths to spare. Fisher started at 14 to
one—the same odds as were on tap about his sire
Maniopoto in the Metrop. which he made one act of
15 years ago.
* * * *
The Caulfield meeting that has often been
a guide to the coming Nationals was a picnic for
Moses last Saturday. In two jumping races 20 to
one chances got home—not easily, but enough.
Youghal, winner of- the Toolambool Hurdle, had
shown respectable form in two or three previous
attempts, and as he was let into the G.N.H. at the
minimum, and owes half his parentage to Aurum,
punters are bound to bear him in mind at Fleming-
ton. He had little to spare, though, from Mabu
and Bright Plume. In the Nat. he will meet Mabu
on better terms, whereas Bright Plume will be giv-
ing him 31b. less; and if the Plume is only half
the sticker he is said to be, he ought to beat every-
thing lie met on Saturday—Beltane, Mneon, Will
Comfort, Sandule and the rest of them—when the
course is three miles and the hurdles a trifle stiffer
than at Caulfield. Bright Plume has been running
third as consistently as Jullundur of yore ran a
series of fourths prior to winning the big event. On
Saturday he was only a neck and a half behind the
winner, and if he has any more improvement in
him he will be the most promising of place invest-
ments on the day. Leddington was about the only
warm fancy for the National that missed the Too-
lambool Hurdle. On paper he is the Plume’s most
dangerous opponent now that Two Blues’ recent
performance over the sticks in Tassy is proved to
have been not nearly as remarkable as it looked to
local eyes. At Caulfield the Tasmanian champion
was troubled by the hurdles, and the last one brought
him to grief. As a G.N. candidate he may now be
counted out.
Aintree’s fencing at Caulfield was not so dazzling
as at Moonee Valley a week earlier; the dashing
pacemaker failed to give 41b. to outsider Wooloo
at the finish of the Wanda Steeple. Wooloo will
be giving Aintree 81b. in the G. N. Steeple, and if
they can both stay the course and jump the bigger
obstacles at Flemington it should be a good go
between them. Meanwhile top-weight Sir Prim
and Mountain God are running well. Also lolaus,
although he compared badly with Aintree at the
Valley, is already a winner over Flemington country,
which the brilliant novice is certainly not.
Whiz Bang and Sinbad the Sailor improved the
reputation of sire Bernard by repeating at Caulfield
their Flemington form of a fortnight earlier. Sin-
bad was again the runner-up in a mile race, whilst
Whiz Bang scored another win—over six furlongs
this time, instead of seven.
“0.K.”: Some people have settled this
year’s G. N. Steeple already. Aintree is to win it.
This grandson of Positano made his first appearance
as a jumper last January, winning a hurdle race at
Sandown Park (Melb.). His next appearance was
in a steeplechase at Moonee Valley the other Satur-
day, and again he won in a dashing manner. With
only 9st. 12lb. to carry there is much to be said
for Aintree, whose first public effort over the big
fences seemed quite to his liking. The gelding is
certainly a natural jumper, of the Booligal order,
with a disposition to go at it like a bull at a gate.
He is only a, six-year-old, which means “aged” in
August, and in the early prime of life for steeple-
ehasing. He is trained by D. Coleman, an ex-
perienced ex-jockey at the game, who believes him
to be a bobby-dazzler among big jumpers, such as
happens once in 10 years or so. Presumably there
was reason to think him much better, at the G.N.
weights, than Sir Prim, in the same ownership (or
half the same) ; and S’Prim went out for a steeple
J. H. DAVIS,
handicapper to
the V.A.T.C.
at 20 to one the other
week and won it.
Nevertheless, though
Aintree is commended
to confidence by various
encouraging circs., it
seems absurd to pile
all one’s hopes on a
'chaser that has ’chased
only once in public, up
to time of writing, and
has never been tested
over the trying Flem-
ington course. He is
quite likely to make
light of the Fleming-
ton three miles when
his blood is up, but in
a long race one prefers
a- seasoned jumper. The
one thing certain is
that if he deserves to
be mentioned in the
same breath with Red-
leap, Bribery and other
giants of old, his
weight will not stop
him. Which remark
applies also to lolaus,
Jack Friar, Rosyth and
others ; but these others
are not supposed to be
modern Redleaps.
Australia is in for a serious invasion by
the Rick'etty Isles. Mason, trainer of Gloaming-, was
expected to leave with his string on the 17th inst.,
and among others to come over later will be R. A.
McKenzie, owner of Smart, engaged, in the two
cups, Epsom and Metrop., and F. S. Easton, who
owns Amythas, and expects to land the Melbourne
Cup and some w.f.a. races with him.
There was enough League football in Syd-
ney last week for a glutton. On Wednesday the
Woodbines overthrew the N.S.W. Thirteen by 18
points (two tries, six goals) to 10 points (two tries
two goals). Prior to the boot-off both brigades met
in the Englishmen’s dressing-room; apologies for
certain regrettable incidents were exchanged, and
it was unanimously decided to “boot the ball and
leave the bloke alone.” The arrangement worked
admirably, for although the game was keen and the
tackling deadly all hands played in a manly spirit.
Ben Gronow’s well-trained toe really gave the Eng-
lish side the day, for Chunky Burge failed to repro-
duce his fine kicking of the previous Saturday.
Sandy Pearce and his offsiders, Burge and Schultz,
again beat the Woodbines in the scrums. But Fairy
McGowan at scrum-half seemed tired; anyhow, the
little nine-stoner failed to heave the ball about as
smartly as on the previous Saturday. Harold Hor-
der was starved on his wing, although Robinson got
his share on the other side. Ray Norman and Cona-
ghan in the centre were so-so, whilst Chook Fraser
was, as usual, tradesmanlike. The best man on the
field was Lloyd, the tourists’ stand-off half. He
grassed his men like an artist and set his threes
going upon the slightest provocation. Wagstaife
gave his best exhibition to date, and Rogers was
again to the fore. The scores just about indicate
the merits of the parties on the day.
On Thursday the Club competition matches were
resumed, the principal tussle being between Western
Suburbs and Balmain. Wests were without Fairy
McGowan, Viv Farnsworth and Easterbrook, who has
broken his foot; the dockers paraded full strength. A
draw resulted (two goals apiece), Wall, the Western
full-back, lobbing one over from a drop kick very
cleverly. The other affairs were more spectacular, and
some tall scores were recorded. Glebe (the “dirty
reds”) gave Newtown a 30 to 23 points lacing in a
hotly contested game. Souths registered a 41 to 10
victory over the game and improving ’Varsity young-
sters. The Students held the rabbitos fairly well in
the first half, the scores being 11 to 5 in South’s
favor, but after the interval the red and green per-
sons ruthlessly added 20 points to ’Varsity’s 5.
Annandale went down before Easts, who notched 42
points against the maroon and sky-blues’ 10 (two
converted tries). Sandy Pearce wouldn’t give the
tail-enders a smell of the ball in the scrums. Wally
Messenger and Tlmmbling Wright got the tries and
goals. Hobo Cubitt made his first appearance for
Easts since his accident. Norths recorded another
couple of competition points: they had the bye.
Most of Saturday’s players were badly troubled
with the slows. Easts had the bye. Wests, with-
out Farnsworth and Easterbrook, toiled home ahead
of Newtown by 11—5, chiefly through the agency of
Wall’s fine booting. It is safe to say that not one
run of more than 30yds. was made in this contest
by any player. Newtown, sporting almost every
number except those listed on the programme, were
in West’s territory most of the time, but were
minus a three-quarter line. Souths, with Gillespie
to the fore, beat Norths and Harold Horder by 21
points to 9. D. Thompson, the Bananaland scrum
half, who played so brilliantly for the Northern
State last season, made his bow in Sydney club
football for Norths. Dallas Hodgins, the erstwhile
rep. Union player, also made his first League appear-
ance with this combination. Both preformed credit-
ably.. Harold Horder is evidently stale, so much so
that he may have his work cut out to preserve his
balance as a rep. winger. Glebe administered another
reverse to Uni.—4l points to nix. Chunky Burge
provided most of the entertainment, registering 32
points, eight tries and four goals, on his own. The
premiers, Balmain, were At Home to the Annandale
lads at Birchgrove, and won after a poor game by
25 points to 8.
The end of the eighth round of Sydney
Rugby Union Football sees ’Varsity still uncon-
quered. In their match with Glebe-Balmain the
issue was in doubt until half-way through the
second half. Then training told its tale and the
scholars swept down on the hyphenated suburbanites
and won by nine points. Mosman, now without D.
Hodgins, played against Manly like lost souls. The
Villagers amassed the cricket score of 42 to a duCk.
Easts have also lost heart; but not so much as to
allow Newtown to beat them. The latter crashed
by 10 points. Newtown’s forwards played a sterling
game and excelled with the ball at toe. East’s backs,
however, made up for it all, Mcßorie being particu-
larly conspicuous. The improving Norths recovered
and scraped home against Wests by two points.
Laycock was North’s outstanding player. He was
never more than a .few yards from the ball —a
perfect follower. Humphries and Burrows also
played soundly, and the former’s kicking was the
deciding factor.
* * # #
A crowd of 20,000 saw Queensland put up
a good fight against the Englishman at Brisbane on
Saturday. The visitors averaged 12st. 61b. against
Q.’s list. 81b. In the first half England led 13—10 ;
and Q. barrackers adjourned for a refresher in a
hopeful mood. But on the proceedings being re-
sumed Albion tore in and won, 25—15. The Eng-
lish wing threequarter J. A. Bacon outraced the
opposition and scored four out of five tries; while
.Gronow kicked five goals—which brings his score
to 20 in four matches. Richards, the Q. forward,
notched a try and a goal, and when full-back Fewin
drop-kicked through the posts the cheers were heard
at Darwin.
Three Queenslanders come into the Aus-
tralian team v. England next Saturday—Ryan (five-
eighth) and Richards and Potter (forwards). Ryan
who only transferred from the Union this year,
gets his jersey in the first year in Rugby League.
N. S. Wales will supply the other 10.
* ‘ * * *
In Vic. League football Saturday was
Merrick’s day out. Merrick is ’Roy’s best forward.
He was well fed and in good nick, so that he had
booted eight of ’Roy’s 10 goals by half-time. It
then dawned on the Melbourne skipper that it
would be as well to tell someone off specially to
watch the deadly shot. Merrick got only one goal
after that, but the damage was done, and the
half-time scores—’Roy 67 points, Melbourne B—-8 —-
showed little proportionate alteration at the finish,
when the Maroons had 108 points to Melbourne’s 46.
Some 11,000 enthusiasts paid to view the catas-
trophe. Over at Victoria Park Carlton put up a
keener fight against the improving Magpies, whose
systematic play steadied the big Blue rushes through-
out and gained them the day with 85 points to 66.
The still-undefeated Richmond had no difficulty in
smothering St. Kilda by 129 points to 54 ; and
South smashed Geelong by 119 points to 46. Gee-
long probably considers it bad policy. to swap
horses while swimming the creek; still if the old
horse is sinking in mid-stream it’s as well to grab
hold of anything, even a colt.
* * * *
Geelong F. G. nearly had an industrial
crisis on its hands last week. One of its best
players, Basil Collins, part-owner of Collins-s
woollen mills, had fixed up to keep the mill going
during the enginedrivers’ strike, and the local
Trades Hall committee promised to boycott the
team in future if he
J. HAMILTON
(North Adelaide),
South Australia 's
brightest football
star.
played. But Collins
was too busy to play,
so Geelong was saved
a spectacle that is com-
mon enough at Broken
Hill but scarcely known
elsewhere.
* *
Football in Adel-
aide has been made
more interesting by the
defeat of Sturt, first by
North Adelaide, who
ran them to a head for
last year’s premiership,
and then, unexpectedly,
by Port Adelaide.
Norths (for whom the
champion Hamilton
plays) were a bit slow
at the beginning of the
season, and have been
beaten twice, like
Sturt, with whom they
are now leading for
the premiership.
Digger Evgns suffers from two serious
handicaps as a boxer —a glass jaw and a tempera-
ment. The second was in evidence on Saturday night
when, at Sydney Stadium, he met that formidable
eight-stoner Jerry Sullivan. Evans outskilled _ the
enemy for a couple of rounds. In the third Sullivan
walked from his corner with menace in his eye,
and immediately began hurling every variety of blow
at the ex-soldier. The latter was hustled 011 to
the ropes and dazed with a right to the jaw. Then,
apparently apropos of nothing whatever, he sank
to the boards and was counted out. His corner
suggested that he had been hit low, but a medical
examination failed to establish the claim.
# * * *
Over-indulgent handicapping of the long-
markers spoiled the five-mile open A.A.A. road
race for the Prince of Wales Cup at Sydney on
Saturday. There was a line-up of 23, and P.
Quinn (2min. 30sec.) won in 28min. 7sec. H. J.
Walling (on the limit of smin.) rolled in second.
H. Hayden (scratch) was sixth in 26min. 40sec.-—a
good effort considering the nature of the highway
and the fact that he was doubled-up with a cramp
when nearing the finish.
• * * *
J. H. Tardif was manager of various S.A.
branches of the E. S. and A. Bank till he died in
Adelaide last week; but Snowtown saw most of
him, and owed him a lot for quiet public service.
Cricket had been his main outside interest. In the
early ’nineties he had a regular position in the
South Aus. XI. He was only 60 at the finish.
*•**■*
New G.-G. Lord Forster is remembered
by Hugh Trumble as taking part in an historic
match between Australia and a mixed team of
Oxford and Cambridge men at Portsmouth in 1893.
H. W. Forster took two wickets for an average of
over 80 and made 43 out of a total of 190. Ranjit-
singhi contributed top score, 44. The Australian tally
was 843, at that time a record for first-class cricket.
Bruce rattled up 191, Bannerman 133 and Hugh
Trumble 105.
Holland has beaten S’Africa in the first
heat of the Davis Cup. The Dutch showed surprising
form, ViermerkoOl and Van Lennep walloping the
S’African crack, Raymond, in the Singles; they
scored a three-sets to nil victory over Raymond and
Winslow in the Doubles. Winslow, however, saved
his side from disgrace. In the Singles he outplayed
both Dutchmen, his figures showing that he was
hardly troubled. Through Canada scratching, Hol-
land has luckily qualified for the semi-final with
the winner of the argument between Britain, France
and America. The Yanks tackle the Frenchmen at
Eastbourne (Eng.) on July 8, 9 and 10.
• » * *
Arthur Haddrick collected the Australian
rope-quoit championship at Sydney the other day.
The game was 2000 up, and the winner went out
in two hands, the second being 1382 unfinished in
39min. 15sec. The previous best was Yankee Car-
ley’s 645, in 1912.
* * * *
Tom Stone, manager of the Royal Mel-
bourne Tennis Club, finished his 81st' year on Satur-
day. He ought to have a fair idea of the game, for
he has been actively associated with it for 70
years. He was a professional at the Oxford courts
when Prince Edward’s grandad was at that Uni —
and he taught the Seventh Edward a few of the
many things he knew. Needless to add, the Prince
had a yarn with the veteran while he was in Mel-
bourne, and naturally they talked of the very human
good-fellow who had such a short innings as mon-
arch.
• * * »
A lady advertised recently in Sydney for
the address of an archery club. She is hardly likely
to succeed in her search; yet half a century ago
archery was quite as popular as tennis is to-day.
There were, clubs everywhere in Europe, and naturally
Australia followed the craze. The game, played in
picturesque surroundings, lent itself to the afternoon-
tea habit, and gave opportunities to discerning young
ladies to pair off with eligible gentlemen in smart
stocks; and no school that taught young ladies how
to be young ladies was quite complete without a wide-
ringed target on a hard-by green.
COMPENSATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I don’t know when you are to play football. On
weekdays you are at work; if you play on Saturdays
it’s against your religion ; and if you play on Sun-
days it’s against other people’s religion. I suppose
you must give up football.” — -Sydney News report
(21/6/’ZO) of magistrate’s remarks to six Jews
charged with disturbing Christian worshippers by
playing football on Sunday.
Pity, the conscientious Yid !
Should he behave as he is bid.
Then each successive Saturday
Becomes Yom Kippur, in a way.
He may not hearken to the call
Of them that chase the flying ball,
Nor join in any other games
Without imperilling such claims
As he may ever have possesst
To be included with the blest.
Behind his huge, rococo nose
He watches where the Christian goes
In cricketing or football gear,
According to the time of year,
And oh! his Hebrew heart is sad,
And soul and mind in woe are clad
To think that all his Saturdays
Must lie in sedentary ways,
Until he draws his last, faint breath
Within the frozen arms of Death.
Yet is his time not wasted quite.
At horse- or pony-race or fight,
Wherever sporting men perform
In fain or shine, in calm or storm,
Israel bravely takes his stand
And writes the odds with careful hand.
He may not with the Christians join
At sport; but he, can win the coin
Of sports who Yiddishers are not —
Which compensates for quite a lot.
N.SAV.
10-2-4.


Why Don’t You Learn to Use Your Hands?
You should learn “how” to Box —
learn to defend yourself. Such a
knowledge will never be a burden to
you, but at times of need will prove
your best friend and protector.
No man knows the day or the hour
when he will be called upon to
avenge some insult, or the time when
he will have to defend himself against
some bully or ruffian.
I Teach Boxing by Mail
—teach you how to become a skilled and scientific
Boxer. My Boxing instructions are very thorough*—
you’ll find them most interesting, and be surprised
«■’ 'die quick progress you will make under my per-
sona; w.c.-hing. My lessons provide an enjoyable
pastime, an., are full of health-giving relaxation
and exercise.
Write your name and address across this advertise-
ment and post it to me, and 1 will send you by
return mail my interesting booklet, “Scientific Box-
ing in Your Home,” which tells all about my
methods, terms, etc. Please send three penny stamps
for postage.
“Snowy” Baker K.O. Boxing
Gloves, in two grades, 16/6 and
22/6 per set, post free. Each set
specially selected and guaranteed.
Soz. or Boz. Large, medium and
small sizes.
.
REG. L. (‘Snowy’) BAKER,
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,
280 Municipal Buildings, Oxford st. (Corner Crown St), SYDNEY.
D/JICEFIELD
Rega.
MOTOR OIL ]
is Used by H.R.H.
The Prince ofWales
in his CROSSLEY CARS.
C. C. Wakefield SCo.Ltd.
5 Moore Street,
SYDNEY,
and LONDON.
IfKOILTHjT
CULATESEVERYHj/
„ yrojwwmi, -■
m
W
s
The Hall Mark
of Quality
All Over the W orl d*
m
m
□
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING. MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAM ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNF.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.O ,
, SYDNEY.
No Gold
is too
obstinate
for
GREATHEAD’S
MIXTURE
Its wonderful penetrating
powers get right to the seat
of the trouble and destroy the
germs that cause the cold.
Greathead’s is no new-fangled
cure-overnight remedy, but a
reliable household medicine
of 45 years’ standing. It is a
sure cure for Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Sore Throat,
Croup, Quinsy, Fever, Ague,
etc.
GET A BOTTLE
FROM YOUR
GROCER I
OR CHEMIST.
Think Well
Over It
and then make up your mind that
there is no longer any need to
suffer from Constipation —lack of
tone, depression. Indigestion, Dys-
pepsia, Morning Sickness, if you
will only use—
GREATOIDS
—the Small but Great Liver Pills ;
for these tiny little pills, so easy
to take and so simple and sure in
effect, are prepared from the finest
ingredients by an expert Chemist
with one object, and that is to
tone up the system, remove depres-
sion, and they
Will Cure You.
So whenever you feel a little out
of sorts and run down, just take an
occasional dose.
Obtainable at all Grocers’ and
Chemists’.
Small Size, 1/-; Large ('Double the
Quantity), 1/6.
A Well-matured Tobacco at Last!
“NOSEGAY”
MANUFACTURED BY T. C. WILLIAMS, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.
Most Pipe-smoking Troubles come from Using Tobacco that is too New.
NOSEGAY does not bite the tongue!
NOSEGAY does not affect the nerves!
NOSEGAY burns down to the last, particle in the pipe!
12/- per lb. &/- per ilb. 3/- per ilb.
Postage—N.S.W: 6d. for the first lb. and 3d. every additional lb.
Other States: Sd. for the first lb. and (id. every additional lb.
SAMPLE TINS 1/4, Post Paid.
A. A. MARKS, LTD., 376 George St., Sydney,
Cigar and Tobacco Imports. BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
rir£ PM
fills
Canno
Cleans j
Hegula
British
*Bk for ONOTO fNff
elf.
ture.
<YAERS//
o
s
EASIC
K
All
Chemists,
two sizes.
GUARANTEED OR MONEY REFUNDED.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO. LTD..
Aberdeen House, 204 Clarence Street, Sydney.
C 10
ALL
TRAVELLING OVER-SEAS SHOULD
AVOID DISCOMFORT FROM
SEA SICKNESS.
Mothersill’s Seasick Remedy
is invaluable. It positively
Prevents and Cures Sea, Air,
and Train Sickness.
NO BAD AFTER EFFECTS.
i
British
Made.
S
Closed-T-
-reacly
for
shaving.
Price in N.Z., 16/-
ready for
stropping
or
cleaning.
The only Safety razor costing
less than 27/6 that can be
stropped without removing the
blade.
The“ 7 o’clock ” gives a beautifully smooth
shave because you always have a perfect
edge on the blade. The stropping is done
in the simple old-fashioned way. As a
result you obtain each time an edge of
which any barber might be proud.
The lower illustration in margin shows the razor
in position for shaving. With a single touch of
the finger it springs open into position for stropping
or cleaning, as shown in the upper illustration.
It is so simple that nothing can go wrong. In
quality, finish, accuracy of adjustment and sharp-
ness of blades, this razor will please the most
fastidious. Indeed, many men, to whom money
is no object, use it in preference to the most ex-
pensive razor that money can buy. Convince
yourselves of its value by asking to see one before
you decide to purchase.
c
Razor.
Safety
Complete razor set, handsomely boxed, with
strop in hinged partition, and 6 finest
lancet steel blades
Of all high-class dealers throughout the
Commonwealth.
Sole Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY, Penison House, Sydney.
15/-


Storejorlfien,
THERE is a finely tailored smartness in
all Farmer’s Mercery Needs which
4 bestows on them the air of marked
distinction. Fashioned from dependable
materials of high quality they represent the
perfection of many years’ experience m every
branch of Men’s High-dlass Outfitting.
SERVICEABLE MERCERY.
RWS1 —Fancy Cloth, Golf Shirts, double
cuffs and neckbands, white neat
black stripes, all sizes, 14/6; 6 tor 42/-
PAVS2 —Ceylon Pyjamas, extra quality, neat
designs in stripes on colored grounds.
Sizes 36 to 42 in. Price 25/-; | for 72/-
Sizes 44 to 46 in. Price 27/6; 3 for 79/6
AVe Pay Carriage - - Box 497, G.P.O.
a.
!SS
'/L
FARMER’S,
SYDNEY.
CHARM.
advt
SHA
The subtle note
that lends the
charm to make
a pretty woman
beautiful is
also felt in thd
Shave Gown
or Tailor Suit.
That is why
wise ladies
are always
adorned by
our master
tailors.
By the Shave
Model Fitting
System we
spare you the
fatigue and
inconvenience
of fittings.
Ladies’ Tailors,
Dressmakers,
Centreway,
Melbourne.
NR ‘7»
You’ll like the
snug fit of Vanity
Fair Silk Gloves
the fit that is the real
test of well-made gloves
Vanity Fair Silk Gloves
are the popu ar select-
ion of women who de-
mand the best the mar-
ket and those
who must first consider
economy.
The guarantee with ev-
ery pair ensures longer
service from Vanity
Fair Siik Gloves, or re-
placement free oi
charge.
V.F. 16
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
After reading up all that the dailies have
been able to gather from reference books,
clippings, and old newspapers and magazines,
Sassiety thinks that the new G.-G. will do.
ft is true that few had heard of him before,
but he may he none the worse for that. One
point is clear, that he attained a peerage by
being a decent fellow and sticking to his
party. The newly-arrived South Australian
Cocked Hat has given fellow-worker Forster
a testimonial, and now there is nought to do
but await his arrival in August. If Com-
mander Ramsay is chosen as Vic. Figurehead
he (with the assistance of his wife, Patricia
of Connaught) will be liable to put the G.-G.
in the shade. We shall know all about our
chances by August.
Melbourne’s social circle —the butterfly
section of it, anyhow—will welcome the new
Governor-General. The Munro Fergusons
are elderly and serious, and after Edward’s
visit Kassiety feels that it simply must have
something bright and larky.
the Prince had officially left Mel-
bourne (about 5 o’clock the other Satur-
day afternoon) he hosted a dinner and jazz
party on hoard. Lots of the Naval Depot
men' were there. The revel stopped dis-
creetly before Sunday morning.
During his visit to the special show held
by the Victorian Agricultural Society,
Edward Windsor was treated to a couple
of glasses of Australian wine. It was good
stuff —about 40 years old —and he seemed
to enjoy it. However, presumably for man-
ners’ sake, he left a few drops in each glass.
As soon as his back was turned the glasses
were seized and drained by two prominent
officials. and the glasses commandeered, no
doubt to be treasured as heirlooms.
The most disappointed people in Mel-
bourne after Wales came up the bay were
the restaurant proprietors. It was expected
that a wave, of gluttony would strike the
city. Prices were hastily put up and staffs
enormously increased; and then the public
began to' display astonishing abstinence.
Trade slumped a mile. Instead of the anti-
cipated tumultuous rush for grub, the restau-
rant-keepers were left with innumerable sur-
plus waiters and harmless, unnecessary
waitresses on their hands, and their kitchens
were piled with provender that nobody
seemed to want.
Mr. John Hop is to get four days’ extra
pay and as many days off for the strenuous
time he had when 'Peter Pan was in the
State. Acting-Chief Commissioner Ileather-
shaw, hacked up by the Chief Sec., told the
Cabinet that soft words of commendation
didn’t butter parsnips at any time, much
less when profiteering is the order of the
day. It will cost the Treasury £4200.
Before the high-spirited Edward left Gov-
ernment House he and “Louis” got up to
such pranks! Boys will be boys, but —
well, there was a startled hostess when she
found the two delighted youngsters playing
quoits along a smooth floor with old phono-
graph discs !
During the Fleet visit the G.-G. and Lady
Helen devoted one night to a ball fbr the
men of the ships, and the feminine staffs of
two of the big chiffon stores were invited
to be their partners. The girls of both shops
had been genuine Red Cross helps during
the war.
Souvenir-hunters made a raid on the
Prince’s table at the Women’s Hospital
ball. They got away with decanters, tum-
bler and champagne glass. The fine old
crystal was lent by Mrs. Alston and is worth
a few shillings these days.
A cabled mention of Jack Dane the other
day has set middle-aged Block loungers talk-
ing of their vanished youth. Jack was one
of Melbourne's swiftest young bucks in the
days when Mrs. Maesmore Morris was the
reigning beauty. Sister Nora was among
the earliest of Conservatorium songstresses,
and she so faithfully followed the teaching
of Mrs. Wiederman that her Irisli-Austra-
lian accent was translated into German, or
something almost as guttural. Melbourne
lost sight of Dane some 15 years ago. He
went to London on mining business, taking
a bride with him, and there he pitched his
tent. At the outset of the war he was in-
specting gold reefs in Russia, but nowadays
he is somehow connected with the hood
Ministry, and for his services the ex-Mel-
bournian has had the 0.8. E. conferred
upon him. Thus the whirligig of time brings
its revenges.
The gas strike produced a new form of
entertainment. The Brown-Browns enter-
tained the Smith-Smiths to illumination and
heating one night; the Smith-Smiths
extended candlelight and a hospitable grate
to the Brown-Browns on the following night.
This rendered possible a 50 per cent, saving
in firewood and light, and the idea was freely
worked. However, the mutual stealing ot
wood, etc., remained popular in the simplei
suburbs.
Commander Trevor Hogan found the tates
kind to him in the war. The curly-haired
young man left Australia in a humble naval
job, but ran quickly up the ladder. At pie-
sent he is a lonely sailor, as his bride has
gone off for a short visit to her people.
Trevor married Lilian Davies, a dazzlin,,
English beauty, who got movie-struck tor a
while. She is a pal of Mary Bickford, and
has been filmed frequently in America.
A Footscray and Collingwood specialty
has at last reached Toorak. The ery
Naicest have discovered the “rock step ana
the “staggery”; they give the impression
of a saloon revel during a wild night at sea.
Everybody “rocks” and “staggers” now un-
less 'she has just arrived from England,
where Queen Mary keeps the brake on.
Major Don Bennett has got out of khaki
and hung out his doctor’s brass plate_ in
Collins-street. The large, impressivh Don
has been missed from Melbourne for years.
He was in China before the war.
Franklin Price, youngest son of the late
Col. Tom Price, who settled and married in
South Africa, is visiting Melbourne with
his wife and children. His elder brother
Rose is now an Indian Brigadier-General
with an impressive war record. The other
brother, Vivian, died while on active service
with the fleet at Gallipoli. Vivian’s widow,
who is Mrs. Charles Mills’s elder. daughter,
is expected back from the Coid Country
shortly.
Off to Canada to attend a Press confer-
ence, C- E. Davies, proprietor of Hobart
Mkrcitky. Mayor Snowden got a crowd to-
gether at Hobart Town Hall to wish lnm
and his' wife a pleasant voyage. There were
half a dozen little speeches between drinks,
and representatives of many bodies fired
compliments at the departing M.L.p. point-
blank. The guest recovered sufficiently to
return the fire. The Davies party expect to
drop across the Prince in Sydney, and tell
him how sorry they are that they wdll be
away from home when he looks in at Hobart.
To show' that it was not really discon-
certed despite the wickedness of the gas men
and the engine-drivers the Argus continued
to “feature” the dozen best roses, and
announced daily the voting as if the result
were as important as the election of the
President of U.S.A. lake Abou Ben Adhem.
Madame Abel Chatenay led all the rest, and
was referred to in reverential terms.
Mildura grows more than raisins and
oranges. It lias produced Thelma Carter,
who is looking for you in the adjacent photo.
Thelma always had a voice, and when she
took it to the Albert-streetXofiservatoriuni.
Fritz Hart and
Melba said it was
worth an education.
That was in 1018,
and now, after two
years of hard work,
the brainy song-
stress i s beginning
to find her name in
the papers. She
made her operatic
debut as lead in a
production of
Gluck’s “Orpheus”
at the Playhouse
some time back, and
she followed up that
success by winning
a place in the liigo
and . J.C.W. Opera
Cos., singing Suzuki
in “Butterfly,” Siebel in “Faust,” Lola in
“Cavalleria” and two or three other well-
known characters. Thelma has a sweet
mezzo-soprano, which, with her dramatic
ability, should bring her under the spot-
light sooner or later.
Johnny Sandes, who is in the Prince’s
press-party, spent some of his few spare
hours with the Elan’ ’Olts at their lovely
place on Camberwell heights. Mrs. Bland
Holt lives a happy life with her chickens,
vegetables and roses.
The Gallery students are hoping the popu-
lace will not forget their hop. on Friday m
the St. Ivilda Town Hall. They are winding
themselves up for a real mask revel.
The Mayor of Essendon and Mrs. Kin-
near are taking advantage of the lull in the
social storm. Their mayoral ball is due on
Friday, July 9.
At the age of 93, Mrs. C. W. Hughes,
mother of the Brigadier-General, the Canon
who refused the mitre in Queensland re-
cently and the doctor who pitches into Rome
when he is not curing eye and ear troubles,
passed out quietly last weejt. Two-thirds
of her long life had been spent in Australia.
First New England (N.S.W.). then Cob-
ram (Vic.), next Bogan River (NS.W.),
and finally St. Ivilda were her home. She
survived her husband 3o jeais, but iouna
consolation and joy in the successes of he
devoted boys. The funeral service was at
the clerical one’s high church on Eastern
Hill. . „ ,
Father M. C. Gough, parish pnest of
Elsternwiek. celebrates to-day the O olcten
jubilee of his ordination. He was formeiß
in charge at Daylesford, and he looked
middle-aged 35 years ago when he came
across to Kvneton to give a hand occasion-
ally to Dean Geoghegan. Clergy and laity
are showering congratulations upon him.
Mrs. Hubert Eisdell was Kitty Parker, of
Tasmania. Of four
good-looking sisters
one became Mrs. Jack
Mort, one Mrs. Artois
du Boise, of Hun-
ter’s Hill (Syd.), and
one an actress and
then a Peeress of the
Realm. Mrs. Eisdell
is a clever pianist,
and supplies the
accompaniments to
her husband’s lyric
tenor, and certainly
few husbands have
so good an excuse as
there is in this photo-
graph for persisting
in singing songs
made up of love and
nightingales and the
hearts of roses.
Dr. Willie Boyd, chairman of the organi-
sation committee of . the 8.M.A., late y
played lead in an operation m Ist. lyes
private hospital. The president of the
8.M.A., Mr. Syme, performed it. Di. Boya
is the senior physician at the Melbourne
Hospital, and will be remembered as the
medico who was instrumental in bringing
Mrs. Needle to justice in the ’nineties, lie
is now catching crayfish at Borne. lie
genial giant has been recently handed the
life membership of the B.M.A.—an honor
that has been conferred only three tunes in
150 years.
Adelaide gossips by the fire:—
The Y.W.C.A. appeal for £l2OO is succeeding,
and the blue triangle is likely to be eternal.
Lady Weigall gave it her official approval and
proved her sincerity by dining at the YAV.C.A.
rooms. Next day she was indisposed and could not
be present at the aristocratic spread offered her by
the Queen Adelaide Club Committee, But no aspei-
sions are being cast.
The imported pedestal for the Edward VII. statue
is nearly completed. Local masons are wondeiing
why it was thought necessary to import at vast
expense what could have been equally well worked
in S.A.
All the best bats in town met the new Excel-
lency at a levGe. He’s a keen agriculturist, but
hasn’t had time to get into his bluchers yet. Later
he was entertained at luncheon by the Common-
wealth Club, and informed an audience, mainly
composed of merchants and shopkeepers, how
greatly he desired to wipe out the man who was
using a shortage of supplies to. fill his pockets. The
I applause was quite overwhelming.
Owen Kyffin Thomas, youngest of the newspaper
tribe, has foreclosed on the heart of Jean, youngest
daughter of the late John Creswell. When she isn't
dancing she helps to run the Disabled Soldiers’
shop.
Also engaged, Harold, third son of MacGiegoi .he
wool magnate, to smiling Bobbie Cleland, daughter
of E. E. Cleland, K.C.
The rain it raineth every day, and people in
town now begin to say they are sick of it. After
months of drought and dust they might remember
the buttered crust does sometimes fall face down.
A cake, five-tjered, weighing 3001 b., is being
made for the sailors on the Renown. It will be
cut at the Cheer-up Hut by small Priscilla Weigall
when the bluejackets arrive.
Bessie Davidson, daughter of the secretary of the
Wallaroo and Moonta C'o., has been elected an associ-
ate of the Salon des Beaux Arts at Paris. Bessie is
the first Australian woman to attain the honor.
Adelaide is jazz-mad, but it rather stared when
a witness in a sly-grog case stated that he had
danced with two bottles of beer in his pockets.
When the Court demurred to this, the jazzer said,
“It’s often done at the dance I go to.”
Pianist Moiseiwitsch’s early concerts last
week were given in cavernous gloom; but
a hearty audience turned up each time in
spite of the dark and tramless suburbs.
Paces were mere pallid blobs in the half-
dark ; the ushers were will-o’-the-wisps with
lanterns; the exits were dimly indicated.
The platform was marked on the map with
candles in high silver sticks; more candles
flared on the organ, and others on high
wooden frames tried to look like flambeaux.
Chopin’s “Marche Funebre” heard with
such lighting ices the spine.
Maoriland audiences evidently did not get
nearly as much as they wanted of Gertrude
Johnson during the recent tour of the J. C.
W. Grand Opera Co., and at the conclusion
of her operatic engagement she received a
big offer to return to M.L. for a concert
tour. The concerts opened in Auckland on
June 1 in the Town Hall, and a crowded
audience kept on demanding triple encores.
Press critics have given Gertrude their bene-
diction, and the tour has boomed. The young
soprano leaves Australia presently for
Europe and America.
The job of drawing-master at the Vic.
Artists will be open .soon. The popum
Mclnnes has held it for some years and ms
pupils are so keen that a petitroxi
in to the authorities to prolong his te ™
111 Other names on the board are Loh»
McCubbin, Wheeler and Crozier, but Me
Cubbin may not be available.
Rav Whiting, who signs his name to many
Bulletin sketches, is hanging out lus sign
as a drawing-master at 346 I linders-sti •
Artist Hal Waugh’s w aiiderio st has
taken him to Tasmania in search of mateiia ,
and he is doing some fine stuft for his nex^
show on the mainland. He an 1‘ .
founded a Bohemian colony, but
of writing it consists of onlj two
bers The staid Tasmanian doesn t think
Bohemianism “quite respectable. And ot
course it isn’t; if it was artists wouldn t
Bolieme.
In ev'ery house there are books and maga-
zines that have been read and will never
be looked at again unless they are sorted
out and sent on their travels. Good-natuied
people with overloaded bookshelves are
minded that the men of the Australian Navy-
are eager for reading matter of all sorts.
The thanks of Commodore Dumaresq and
his sailors go out in advance to all good
friends, who will make up a parcel and leave
it at or despatch it to either of the Mel-
bourne receiving depots: T. W. M
Rialto, Gollms-street; or B. C. Lavcnda,
312 Flinders-street. The railways will carry
parcels free.
Alice Lethbridge, one of the tallest, lith-
est and loveliest dancers that seasoned Aus-
tralian playgoers remember, did not lade
away as was expected of her last time she
danced in Australia as a member ot tlu,
second Gaiety Co., and subsequent y man
“Aladdin” panto, with Lonnen and Robert
Courtneidge. The ethereal appearance of the
lady persuaded the general public that hei
end was near; it was poetically predicted
of her that she would fall fainting on the
stage and die to slow music, with a wan
smile hovering round her lips. Instead, the
adored dancer married a medical man who
sailed the Southern seas, and now she lues
happily ever after on one or other ot the
islands in the Pacific where hubby has his
practice. Dora Rignold is a more recent
exile from the theatrical world of hei birth.
Dora, divinely till and sweet, married a
British Colombian millionaire, since when
she abides in a richly mineralised and some-,
what civilised country, where a tinted popu-
lation is wonderfully mixed and panama
hats are ridiculously cheap.
Tien Hogue is off to America to put in a
holiday with a brother in ISew Fork.
The Taits have made a sporting proposi-
tion to the Repertory people ; they otter to
put on Rep. plays with professional casts at
feast four times a year on condition that
500 members of the Repertory Club bind
themselves to buy one ss. ticket apiece fm
each performance. On I nday night varioiu
Repertory revivalists gathered in the Town
Hall to discuss the matter. There was a
sprinkling of enthusiasts in the flesh and
a downpour of apologies on paper. T .
strike had made transport difficult and the
night was dreary. Archibald Strong could
not come, and Prof. Scott and Mrs Gibson
Young were other notable absentees, the
gathering of enthusiasts consisted of many
women and half a dozen men wi4 D|
Booth as chairman. A bone of contention
was that amateurs .would be shouldered
aside by professionals. Secretary R. A.
Broinowski pointed out that the club aimed
at getting Rep. plays into the line of vision
of the city man who wants -no amatetu
touch. However, selected amateurs are to
be given a chance with the professionals.
An association (sub. ss,ay»ar) was formed
to carrv out the financial suggestion made
bv the Taits, and a strong provisional com-
mittee was elected. Here are some of the
namesf Robert Garran, G. H. Ivnibbs, A. J.
Buchanan, Archibald Strong. E. C. Oliphant.
Dr Booth and Rose Quong.
The home of the Melbourne newsboys at
Coromnndel-place is now too s ™ all ’A°^ cr t e "
tarv Edith Onians is looking for £IO,(XX) to
buy a larger building for her swarming
charges to work and play in. Profiteers with
coin to spare may obtain grace by dropping
a trifle in this outstretched hat.
Brooke Nicholls, a Melbourne dentist, doing
a little post-graduate polishing at the Lm-
versitv of Pennsylvania, writes that all lec-
tures start at 3 a.m. There are 14,000 stu-
dents at the Uni., 600 of them in the dental
school. In h is first few days Nicholls ran
across men from Australia, Paraguay, Argen
tina. Panama. Holland and Japan. T 1
Yankees worship education, though they aie
sometimes a bit shy of showing it. and they
will do a great deal to get it. When the Mel-
bourne man struck Philadelphia they were
having a “Clean-up Week.” and the tram-
cars were full of signs like “Help to Keen
Your City Clean,” “Clean Up,” “Paint Up.
The women, the rude man says, didnt seem
to need the last bit of advice, most of them
having already done it to the limit.


l
1
1
5
s
;
£
£
a
PCS
&
*
k
m
I
x
&
A
i
K
X
B
«i
A
w
A
&
w
X
i
i
#
7
s
»
r
X
Z'
H
is
ri
a
x
t
H
iK
1
X
/a>
»
X
fC
K
4
i
H
I
tfe
IMk
if,:#!
UJ
£
X
te
K
»
X
s
£
I
1
©
0
iCwife
The Spirit of the Empire


i
I
'Charles
HeidsieckS
Vintage 1906
(Mm
HE PLUS OLTRfI
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Ford and Chevrolet
Owners.
A set of S.R.B. TAPER BEARINGS
fitted to the front wheels of your Car
provide for easier running, and allow
for correct adjustment.
The Set is specially made for you, and
is worth your inspection.
Your local Garageman has particulars.
WHOLESALE ONLY.
Bennett SBarkell Limited
Meagher Street, SYDNEY.
"Give Me
Large Size Pleasq
juyjyi
Wise women realise that there is
proportionately more value in the
large bottles of
ras
T-S2SsS3S3g
SOM HI NOTON'S
CAROAC££N
BOWWII
Wgfim
IPHSH'MOSS
NNINtfO
\m
IRISH
IRISH MOSS
|,tOtW*U nORNHM»
sum
IRISH MOSS^
FOR COUGHS AND COLDS.
Now that so many colds are going about—
a large bottle of Bonnington’s may provide
sufficient doses to prevent Colds, Influenza,
Coughs, Bronchitis, Asthma, and Chest com-
plaints, affecting the whole of your
family. Sold everywhere.
BA. 21.
■nr.™
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Dayid Jones
[?]
SYDNEY
The winter morning rubbed its sleepy eyes
and at first decided to sulk even though the
Prince was coming to town. But by 11 the
sight of municipal fathers gathered at Farm
Cove reminded it of a city in which it means
a fine of £5OO to use a radiator, and, deter-
mining to show them what could be done
with a little effort of will, it turned on its
full winter sun-power.
Since seven o’clock Sydney had been a city
of trampling feet, and now every inch along
the procession route was black with humans.
The Domnin had been barriered into about a
dozen enclosures, each smaller than the last,
and it was only by the corresponding large-
ness of your ticket that you were finally
allowed into the Holy of Holies reserved for
the Ministry’s wife and her camp-stool. In-
side this barrier stood the Naval Guard, and
opposite to them had sprung up a fungus
of white and gold, and of red, white and blue
against the freshness of Nature’s back-
ground. To this carpet stretched from the
landing-point, the redness flanked by avenues
of flags so thickly grown that they hedged
from view the diamond flash of the harbor
and the beautiful curves of Farm Cove. Offi-
cialdom, having done all it could to cut out
Nature, was in its glory in wig and gown
and feather, and fluttered and tripped about
the magic ring like so many show-girls con-
scious of the eye of the ballet mistress. Over-
head aeroplanes swooped and looped, and
with the local cocked hats so used up the
limelight that it was not till the young man
stood listening to the Mayoral address that
the crowd really grasped who he was. Hav-
ing got his own back on the Mayor, Edward
ran a sliy eye along his guard, still to only
the faintest cheering. But when he turned
to make for the steps the uproar broke out
and the conquest of Sydney had begun.
There wasn’t anything better along the
route of the procession than the “Ich Dien”
which a hotelkeeper had put up on his
premises just above the line “Ales and All
Brands of Spirits.” And above all, there
were P. of W. feathers that were just like
a foaming pint.
The first cold douche to the palpitating
maidenhood of Sydney who had received
cards for the G.-G.’s Ball on the night of
the Prince Chap’s arrival was administered
by the bleak look of the Town Hall. People
had gone expecting a fairy bower, something
in the style of the Mayor’s Ball last year.
What they found was something suggestive
of an Empire washing-day. Large Union
Jacks were draped from each gallery at
regular intervals in a sort of perpetual curt-
sey to the big centre lights that were coldly
austere in white silk overalls dangling silver
tassels.
But all else was forgotten after the
arrival of the young man, almost on the tick
of time, with the G.-G.’s and the State Exes.
Up a lane formed by two hedges of Lancers,
behind which peering women bent and bowed
like trees in a strong wind, the blushing
youth squired Lady Helen and rather ner-
vously pulled at a glove. Lady Helen wore
one of her wonderful brocades, this time
white, her diamonds vying with the candela-
bra in the vestibule. Dame Margaret, look-
ing tremendously impressive, trailed a grey
brocade that spelled Rossitter’s of London.
Up to the dais finally swept the last aide;
and then the faithful were rushed through
the presentation process like sheep through
the dip. After which the young man stepped
down among the girls and threw the hand-
kerchief for the first time to Eileen Bell, of
Queensland. (They are entertaining the
Prince, and making alterations at the
Coochin homestead for the occasion.) Mollie
Little was next approved by the Royal Eye,
and Mollie’s delight is still vibrating where
the Princely ungloved palm sought a resting
place on the strip of Gyppo tapestry that
formed the top layer of her frock. Then
came the turn that Rosamund Lumsdaine
has been speculating upon for weeks. Rosa-
mund was brocade puffs below the waist and
mostly shoulder-straps and animation above,
and Edward so liked it all that he booked
it for the final number, which he encored —
about seven times. For that ball the honors
certainly go to Rosamund.
Gwen Fuller, looking fresh as paint after
her rest cure, wore pompadour satin pan-
niers to her skirt and a 16-year-old band
in her hair. Ross Smith, with a London-to-
Australia length of decorations, found favor
in the sight of many. Mrs. W. M. Hughes
was in black and gold; the Cook lady hon-
ored the Navy in baby blue; and Mayoress
Fitzgerald was a tiny figure in black georg-
ette.
Of course the Official Lancers were
danced to roars of laughter and applause
of the multitude, who watched the funny
little quirks with obvious delight. Mayor
Fitzgerald pinned his faith to Lady Helen,
and Mr. Hughes seemed to depend mostly
on Dame Margaret. Edward followed
William of Wales, and found he mostly
ended in a cul-de-sac. Mrs. Waley, in mag-
nificent upholstery of gold and green, waved
a green feather fan. and came next to Lady
Helen in diamond values. Not the least
festive of the lasses were the two Earp
girls, who got engaged the day before the
Renown came into port, regardless of what
coronets it might bring for them. Mrs.
Willie Collins, Mrs. Philip Morton and
Mrs. Sep Levy, whose ankles grow neater
with the years, came in splendor. A Knox
girl might easily have been mistaken for an
Art student in a drooping willow-green
dress, a wreath in her hair. Reggie Marks’s
daughter wore hoops to her debutante frock ;
and tall Enid Falkiner was another striking
comer-out. Mrs. Rolin was mustard and
blue; and Dean Talbot’s wife contrasted
olive green with her hrindle hair. Then
there was the man who looked like the
Pirate bold; long-coated, knee-breeched,
white-calved and with buckled shoon —he
turned out to be Arnheim, master of the
Mint. The ex-Premier Holmans arrived
early and stayed late, he looking healthier
and happier than for a long time past, and
cheered up perceptibly at seeing John Storey
struggling through the official set. David
Fell brought his Honorable helpmeet, who
dressed herself in soft grey tones; Mrs.
Chris Bennett wore a charming Lice dress
and a huge miniature; and little Mrs. Black-
stock and her tall husband visibly dropped at
the thought of the Munro Fergusons’ early
departure.
During the revels within a large crowd
waited outside the gates. At 12.30, when
the Prince and their Exes, appeared on the
top of the steps, it seemed as though the
cheer that burst out must split asunder the
throat of the great mass. The grey-coated
young man was plainly delighted ; ignoring
the guests who draped the lower steps, he
focussed all his fascinations on the crowd
below. Then, hopping into his car, he stood
up and faced the people, without so much
as a backward glance at those others, and
waved his hat in cheery good night till his
car had passed through the side-gates.
For the ball at State Government House
Dame Margaret wore thick soft-grey brocade
that carried a train and a cross between a
mantilla and angel sleeves made of alluring
Limerick lace. After the Prince had escorted
her down the ballroom, through a red-roped
avenue guarded by V.C.’s, and so out on to
the wide stone verandah steeped in the soft-
ness of amber and blue lights, he took his
stand on the usual little carpet island, and
served out the usual quick-action left-hand
shake. The background was draped with
their Exes, and distinguished guests, and
feverish-looking gent.-helps kept the Prince’s
pot boiling with a steady and continuous ■
supply of palms. Nobody was allowed to be
slow off the mark, so the ball got really under
weigh about 10.
Then occurred the Great Push. The ball-
rooms really hold about 500, and 1200 had
been bidden to come and make jam. Those
who crashed madly into the jazz were all
right; but the surplus were penned so hard
to “make room for the Prince to dance” that
the dowagers sitting in the window-seats
feared every moment that the panes would
give way. «
Ex-Minister for Education James’s little
daughter Enid was the Prince’s first partner,
and she looked as sweet and shy as a daisy*
under the unexpected selection. Thus far
Mollie Little had the greatest score; and
on this evening anxious and heated aides
sought the lady to bring her within cooee of
the regal voice. It appears that Lady Lough-
borough, who was Sheila Chisholm, had said
sufficient to the Prince to interest him in
her Sydney friend, and Mollie’s method of
one-stepping and putting on her glad rags
finished the trick. This time she accepted
the royal favors in pink.
Flora Sandes, wearing her Servian cos-
tume, came to the party, and had a special
yarn near the dais with Edward. Mrs.
Waley’s old-rose brocade shared the honors
with her Ex’s., and the lady’s throat blazed
with diamonds. Mrs. Swinson’s thick black
silk had a tiny red rosebud woven into the
fabric. Mrs. Willie Collins was in hand-
some trappings of brocade, and waved a
black feather fan. Mrs. Sep Levy looked
girlish in blue and silver ; Mrs. Frank Lamb,
was in softest white satin; Mrs. Toohey
wore her pearls, and looked like a marquise
of old time in her pompadour blue satin.
General Finn brought all his decorations and
daughter MoyaGeneral White was there
and Mr. Holman; Owen Cox and Ross
Smith. The McMillan lady brought Bobbie,
very attractive with her bobbed head and
yellow taffetas. The Curlewises and every
other legal family in Sydney helped to swell
the throng; and the Consuls, Mrs. Segaert
and Mrs. Campana accompanying their hus-
bands ; and Knoxes and Onslows, Eadith
Hill and Eadith Walker, and all whose
wives like to think of them as pillars of
Church and State.
The public lev£e having been born in the
brain of officialdom was stage-managed to
keep the public as remote from the young
man as possible. Arranged for the morn-
ing following the public holidays, it meant
that many had to lose a half-day’s pay for
the pleasure of walking past the Smile, whose
cheeriness was damped somewhat by a heavy
draping of officialdom in the background
and the early-morning dreariness of the Town
Hall; but none of these things kept the ’Loo,
the Glebe, Pyrmont and that half-million of
Sydney that had received no vast illuminated
invitation card to royal receptions from
coming to view their Prince. About 7
o’clock in the morning the first callers began
a queue which, eight abreast, grew till it
was half a mile long. At 10.30 the young
man kept his tryst. The first to be admitted
crossed the big hall in rather a dazed, hesi-
tating fashion, but warmed up under the
sunny Smile. A small giyl ran half-way back
and waved, and the Princely hand waved
as hard in response. Old ladies who might
have just come up from Devonshire or from
Somerset bobbed. Here and there a girl
flung a flower. Worn-out looking women
with babies in their arms looked heavily,
wonderingly at this young man so blessed
that the price of eggs and butter need never
cause him thought. Such richness was in-
credible, and they turned for a second look
at the fortunate youth. And almost it seemed
he caught something of the hidden meaning
of their look, and a flicker almost of apology
flashed across the sensitive face.
Woman, wise and otherwise, being bidden
to behold her male feasting in company with
Edward, flocked like cooing pigeons into the
Town Hall galleries on the occasion of the
.State banquet. Those of her who could not
find a hole in the galleries fluttered down
on to the platform. This was unfortunate
for those who were not the wife of one of
the ’Eads; for these ladies just before the
tourney started arrived in their gladdest
raiment and took the places reserved for
the queens of beauty on a long row of chairs
that stretched right across the front of
the stage, and as the guest-table, was imme-
diately below the platform the woman in
the background had an uninterrupted view
of Iceland poppies and bald heads. The
Prince singled out none by flinging her a
bone, and youth and beauty aloft contented
itself with, lying about the liumber of times
she had seen him. ",
The dressing in the galleries was promis-
cuous ; the well-used coat and skirt jostled
the softness of satin and diamond decolle-
tage, which got its revenge later on by say-
ing in a high-pitched voice that it was
“going on” and that he was to be there.
It was to the Arthur Allens’ dance at
Merioola that the superior ones were bound
on Friday evening. Daughter Margaret was
led out by the Prince for the first dance;
Mollie Dangar was another of the chosen,
and she can now tell you with accuracy
what the young man really likes for supper.
Mollie Little was there, again in pink, and
again had the hankie dropped before her.
Mrs. Allen hostessed in violet and gold.
The Prince having decided to go to the
Winter meeting, all the Sydney that begs or
borrows its members’-stand ticket, or reluct-
antly pays for its seat on the official stand,
made for Randwick, and went early. Wear-
ing the same grey coat and the little hard-
hitter (evidently the H.C.L. has caught the
boy, too), he replied with a continuous wave
to the quickly-collected crowds, mostly fair
woman buying the week-end joint. Mum
for once had a chance to have a real good
look at him, and decided that he was “nice-
lookin’, but too pink and white,” and
thought of her own lad’s sun-browned back
and chest with a sudden wave of thankful-
ness.
But in spite of the Prince Randwick failed
to blossom like the Rose of Sharon. Woman
mostly wore her second-bests, and towards
the end of the day varied it with a discon-
tented expression because of an R.II. who
had shown himself for the shortest possible
space in the vice-regal pen, preferring the
official stand. That is why the women who
had obtained a seat there remained glued to
it in the hope of occasionally catching a
glimpse of the little hard-hitter and the blue-
and-red striped tie. As the Prince does not
walk on his hands they scarcely ever saw
the spats, the crowd being so great. It
made the girls in “his own class” quite petu-
lant.
Of course everybody was tailor-made and
furred. Lady Helen’s sables ran a dead-
heat with those of the Rupert Clarke lady,
who otherwise was rich brown cloth. Dame
Margaret wore a purple flower-bed upon
her head, and a prune-cloth costume replaced
the usual grey. Mrs. Duncan was graceful
in a dress of Dutch blue and a tiny blue
brqcade toque; the Thomas Hughes lady
was panniered in black velvet, and Eadith
Walker glowed like an expensive violet. Mrs.
Arthur Allen, with the glory of last night
yet upon her, upheld her prestige with
richest sables; the Fred Merewethers came
and the Kelso Kings brought Flora handes
in her Serbian rig-out. Mrs. Prideau Lrune
in black was with sister Claire Garvan ; Bar-
bara Baynton’s wonderful cape of Jjussiiu
sable made a triumphal progress; modestly
along in its wake came daughter Mrs. Harry
Gullett. weary of the racketings. All the
girls who have danced with the Prince were
there. Mrs. Mclntosh was under a moun-
tain of musquash and fitch. Pretty Bobbie
McMillan floated about in sapphire-blue
velvet. Gwen Fuller enhanced her length
by a long seal coat and a tight seal toque.
The Hordern lady, who gets her turn when
she gives her dinner to the young man, came
in black. A pretty Queensland girl, Olive
Dalziell, was in navy and dark-brown furs.
Maudie Fane, looking as though “Kissing
Time’s” all the time, was in a squirrel coat
and silver-and-blue tissue toque; the Bells, ot
Coochin, were in the pack; Mrs. Hugh
Munro in smart navy tailorings; and Lady
Hayes in black velvet. Another good-looker
was Mrs. W. H. Mackay, of Merton, who
has been among the smartest dressers of
the week’s flutterings.
Matron Kellett had the Prince all to her-
self for 10 glorious minutes in the grounds
of Randwick on Sunday. After he had gone
through the wards with his most friendly
smile came the renaming of the hospital
(henceforth to be known as “The Prince of
Wales” —so unusual and so typically Aus-
tralian), and the tree-planting, the tree
being a palm. Meantime the royal glad-eye
hadn’t failed to pick out the beauty, spots
among the ranks of V.A.D.’s; and while the
crowd tumultuously shouted “God “Bless the
Prince of Wales!” Matron stood close be-
side the little chap and defied the world to
touch him, then nearly scratched her knees
upon the gravel, so deep an obeisance did
her loyalty make, to a long-drawn O-o-o-oh !
of admiration from the surrounding Diggers.
The main features of the Masonic Ball
at the Town Hall on Thursday night were
the flock of 53 debutantes and the absence
of the Prince. But, anyway, Prince or no
Prince, the Freemasons were out to enjoy
themselves, and not a matron but got at
least one chance to show the girls how
things were done in mother’s day. The tak-
ings help the Benevolent'lnstitution.
Dora and Lilian Earp don’t care who
dances with the Prince. Dora has promised
to wed In'structor-Lieut. F. Rednall, of the
Melbourne; and sister Lily has given her
word to Flight-Lieut. F. It. Mason, D.C.M.
Phil Glenistdr. the racing-man and all-
round sport, who died on Sunday, was Mrs.
Charlie Waters’s father. The Waters re-
cently bought Ted Simpson’s place at
Double Bay—the handsome house that the
Rajah and bis wife rented for S 9 long.
Amid purple and gold the Sun entertained
overseas journalists at the Australia oh
Saturday night. Managing-director H. It.
Denison, a perfect host, had B. K. Long, of
the Times, and Everard Coates, of Reuter’s,
to right and left; and Keith Murdoch and
John Sandes were others whose voices were
heard in reply to the principal toast —“The
Press of the Empire.” Knights were
numerous: Russell French, Thomas Hughes,
Ross Smith and Denison Miller were among
the 50 or 60 guests who raised their wel-
comes to the visitors, with an extra lift for
Keith Murdoch, because of his services to
the Digger’s dad (it was largely a congrega-
tion of Diggers’ dads) over the Gallipoli
business. Everard Coates, who had followed
the Prince through Canada, neatly turned
the compliments upon his hosts—he certainly
would now always think of Australia as the
Land of the Sun. The Lady of the Snows
was magnificent: the Land of the Sun was
stupendous. But there was this great dif-
ference between them—Australia could go
about its work all round the calendar.
Nobody said that just at present it isn’t
disposed to go about it very far round the
clock.
Mollie Little, the Prince’s partner in so
many dances, is the youngest daughter of a
Queensland squatter who lives in Double
Bay. The eldest girl, Dorothy, married Com-
mander Eardley-Wilmot, R.N., five years
ago.
The Prince’s Melbourne partners, by the
way, were quietly but firmly infortned that
“they weren’t required and they weren’t
desired,” as the old song has it, in Sydney.
He, no doubt, would have liked to see them,
but the point of view of the harbor-side
maidens and their mothers was much the
same as that of Phillip-street towards an
interloping Victorian barrister. One ambi-
tious young woman actually got as far as
the Australia, but the outlook was so cold
and unpromising that she fled back to the
Yarra.
From the Brisbane matrimonial agency:—
Lance Jones, son of Mrs. Mervyn Jones and
nephew of Mrs. W. N. Robertson and the Pollards,
was married to Gwen Dalhunty on June 16.
Lieut. Alan Raff, of India, a cousin of Raffs all
over the State, has induced Nurse Jessie Munro, of
Toowoomba, to accept the usual diamond ring. There
will be quite a colony of Queenslanders in India
soon.


ESTB
■ »
1853
HARDY BROTHERS LTD.
jewellers.
Silverplate of Quality.
Hardy Bros.’ celebrated Plate is of the highest
quality English manufacture, the same as has been
supplied by the Company for over 60 years. Each
article is stamped with Hardy Bros, name as a
guarantee, and is unsurpassed for durability and
wear, and in appearance and finish it is equai
to Solid Silver.
ass- sjMiawgafisa**. "ySfeffy;
12 pairs Dessert Knives and Forks, with Pearl Handles, in
Velvet-lined Oak Case,
£lO 10 0
Jl6-118 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
London.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
298 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
THE public soon gets to know if
an article has outstanding
merit —which is probably why
twenty million men pow use the
Gillette
Safety Razor
It is the universal razor. Adjustable
blade—no stropping—no honing.
STANDARD SET.—Heavy triple, silver-
plated Razor and one dozen double-edged
blades, in neat leather case.
Throughout Australia
28/6
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR COMPANY,
BOSTON.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO., LTD.,
Sydney and Brisbane,
Wholesale Agents.
I
rTTTTTTTT
5W
a ~.ik
r#
b;
X.
t
WMwWMMWI,
-«js*
irtv
i».t3
r*s?s
Hif/
~ Miiia
•::■'■■
a '
Perfect scones —perfect
cakes, puddings and blanc-
manges when you cook
with Nestle’s Milk.
“ Nestle’s ” cooking is
both economical and easy.
You save eggs, sugar and
butter —you save trouble
Write to-day to Nestle’s, 347 Kent Street,
Sydney, for Free Copy of a Valuable
Cookery Book containing over 100 recipes
for cooking with
Nestle’s Condensed Milk
Made in Australia.


“THERE'S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
2S
&
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which j
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
whht the Weston
Course is t and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE'S
HONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
the HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
212 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
iL
PARIS
garters
No mefal
Can touch you
THE NAME OF
PARIS
is the endorsement of perfection, and
your guarantee of Garter quality.
RETAILED EVERYWHERE.
Indents and Wholesale,
Walter Cathro Pty., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney. ’
Makers, A. Stein « vumpany, Chicago.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
5
1
y-s
•*
mm
■
BRITISH
AD
Perfection
RUBBER.
LADIES! GENTS! CONFECTIONERS!
Make Sweets at One-third the Price
you now pay for them.
The man or woman who has not the courage to
make a business venture, and the grit and determina-
tion to push it to success, will always be found
the underpaid servant of the fellow who did have
the corn age to make a start. Horne confectionery
manufacturing by our system offers the greatest
opportunity in the country to-day for engaging
in business for yourself with only a couple of pounds
capital. The following few lines may help many of
you who have been hit rather hardly by the new rise
m prices of confectionery to write for details of our
instruction: » K E EP A-GOIN’.
When you strike a thorn or rose
Keep a-goin’.
When it hails or when it snows,
Keep a-goin’.
’Tain’t no use to sit and whine
When the fish ain’t on your line:
bait your hook and keep on tryin’—
Keep a-goin’.
For particulars write to
R. & E. CROAKER,
Confectionery Instructors,
UNIVERSAL CHAMBERS,
325 COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
To those in Victoria. —Our Showrooms are open
daily from 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. Inspection invited.
AMERICA’S
PI QUEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
Gr
IFT OF LAND-CLEARING INVEN-
TION TO FARMERS.
Send Two Stamps to “CLEARING,”
Griffith, N.S.W.
a
fll
ft
dl|j>
KEEPS CONTENTS
Ice-Cold 72 hrs. Hot 24 hrs.
Made in various
sines and styles
from 'A-pint up.
Icy-Hot Bottles are
ideal for all climates
and are made for
hard usage.
Extra Protection is
ensured by a coiled
spring and pad under
bottle which absorbs
jolts and jars and
makes the bottle
practically unbreak-
able.
Absolutely
Sanitary,
because the
spring - tight
neck - fitting
prevents
leakage of liquid into the outer
case.
The Name ICY-HOT clearly
stamped on the bottom of each
bottle is a guarantee of the
Standard of Perfection.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES.
Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
The ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.,
159 West Second Street,
Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Icy-Hot Jar
for solid food
or ice-cream.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1919 £1,207,933
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,070,000
Accumulated Funds exceed .. .. £41,000,000
Annual Income nearly .. .. .. £6,000,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
advt
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell# Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Offloe—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
URODONAL
The Great French Remedy for Gout, Rheumatism, Gravel, Calculi,
Obesity, Acidity, Arterio-Sclerosis.
I
The age of a man is the age of his arteries. Keep your arteries young by
taking URODONAL, and you will thereby avoid Arterio-Sclerosis, which
hardens the walls of the blood vessels and renders them stiff and brittle.
THE SIGN OF THE TEMPORAL ARTERY.—(Dieulafey’s Temporal
Sign.) “If you should see between the eye and the root of the hair,
under the wrinkled and withered skin of the temples, a kind of
bluish and knotted cord protruding, be on your guard, for you are
threatened with senility. It does not matter if you have not a white hair;
your arteries are growing old. It is necessary to act immediately. Purify
your blood of the poisonous substances which taint it, and especially of
the most dangerous of all, viz., Uric Acid.”
Dr. J. U. S. BOTAU.
DISSOLVES URIC ACID as easily as warm
water dissolves sugar!
PREPARED BY ETABUISSEMENTS CHATELAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 10/9.
From all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australia.
Booklet containing Medical Opinions can be obtained from Chatelain’s
AUSTRALIAN AGENCY: 352 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
[3
Use the BRANDY Your Men \
Enjoyed ioFraiyce MARTELLSI
gas®
A PERFECT
SHAVE.
It’s British.
NORMAN
If unable to procure send Postal Note to their Agents.
BAKER & LONGHURST, 50 York Street, SYDNEY.
328 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
Christopher Johnson & Co.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Their Famous Full Hollow-Ground
Metropolitan Razor.
PRICE 10/0,
Of all Stores.
J C-A-C-
C-A-C'
HIGH-GRADE SHEET METALS
BRAND BRAND
BRASS, COPPER, NICKEL SILVER
ALUMINIUM, GILDING METAL
MANUFACTURED BY
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO. LTD.
GORDON STREET, FOOTSCRAY, Vic.
Obtainable from all the leading Hardware Houses in the Commonwealth.
SALES OFFICES;
VICTORIA —Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne - - Phone Central 1995
NEW SOUTH WALES—SB Pitt Street, Sidney - - - Phone City 2677
QUEENSLAND—CampbeII’s Buildings, Creek Street. Brisbane Phone 2382
-O-V'O
II
C-A-C- 1
A
dJcU-c-
O-VO |
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Ao notice (except of a hostile character ) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. wilt be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Burwood: It isn’t that the salary of the
M.P. is too great, but that the M.P. is too little.
. ...R.H.: Yes, we’ve been saying the same thing
for years past R. 5.8.: Too technical; and the
office gambler says some of the technicalities are
wrong.... Outhbert: Glad to hear Higgins has “a
high opinion of the Auditor-General.” It’s uncom-
mon generous of Higgins. .. .Seedy: “Dream” won’t
pull through... .J. 8.0.: No; it left us limp....
J.N.McC.: Nothing there C.P.H.: Not nearly,
.... M.B. (Neutral Bay): Doubt if it’s really loyal
to ask what kind of tooth-paste he uses... .H.R.P.:
Ninety-ninth ode to the Prince of Wales, starting
“Hail!” rejected in loyal indignation... .E.J.S.: Bad
verse... .P.S.C.P.: It doesn’t move us.... Stop S.:
The yarn was probably a trick of the trade. Any-
way, instead of the foretold rise, there has been
a fall of 10 per cent, or more in most footgear
during the last two months Sylvester S.: “Crim-
son and Gold” doesn’t say anything new or well.
• M.A.C.: We don’t like parodies; and yours mad-
dens us Pom-Dig: Wretched T.J.11.: Lame
and tedious.... 11. R.M.: The “Election” goes too
mournfully... .W.H.8.: Personal replies are out of
the question. No room for the “History,” but this
paper is-always hungry for pars, about people....
E.M.C.: Not what we want... .H.O. (Walhalla) : You
sound very young. Grow up, and try again....My
Werac: No use 1.R.M.: “Old, Old Story” doesn’t
convince... .Plodder: It has plunged the office into
mourning Devon: Australia doesn’t talk like
that.... Oliver 0.: You have an idea. It ought to
go with different handling MeEnsay: “The
House” is a bit too slight L.: They’re not up.
The Mad Hatter: You don’t get the mirth
out of it... .E.M.E.: “Lost” doesn’t move us.
IC.A.C.: Not nearly To Po: No go
Pivcr: Sorry, no use Fanuela: One line is un-
usual—“ And my rug was the warm starlight.” We
prefer even moon pyjamas L.8.D.: Well enough
told, but why tell it? 8.0. D.: Not well enough
done.... Sandy: Doesn’t make a yarn... .Francis C.:
Verse doesn’t carry it De B.: Poor yarn in
poor "verse. . . .Harold G.: No value T.O’C.: So
little in “Jim’s Sunday” that we shouldn’t be sur-
prised if he takes to two-up L.H.H.: You think it
would made a “good comic.” Wo think it would earn us
a brick.. .Biddy R.: Verse doesn’t make good, though
there’s an idea in it J.E.F.: Sorrowfully dull.
. ...R.P. (Elsternwick) : Trick verse doesn’t go here
as trick verse. It may be called a sonnet, a triolet,
a villnnelle or a crocodile; the only question worth
asking is whether it is good verse J.11.L.: Why
leave out the articles? It isn’t a telegram....
W’gabba: The verse isn’t good enough.... Gladys
K.: “Darnley” doesn’t thrill us Henry T.:
“Splitter’s Song” not up G.D. (Sydney): An old
idea in poor verse Mirza: It couldn’t say much
•less. .. .S. S. (Scott’s Creek): “The Mind Content”
is commonplace in poor verse. .. .1.R.M.: Nicely
done ; but the conclusion reached is only the obvious.
Anon: Your clowning is clumsy H.C.G.: You
can write. Now find something to write about....
I'.W. (Coonamble) : Obscure mirth from the garbage
tin rejected. .. .C.M.A.: “Dreams and Reality”
misses ; but try it again. .. . J.C.A.: Everv daily
paper ■ has been saying that without a pause for
breath for a month... .J.8.C.: God forbid that it
should be “after our style” B. Bloke: The chief
fault is that it doesn't say enough; but a sonnet
demands fine work, and “fire” is one syllable
C.R.S.: It’s nearly bad enough for a shocking
example An Actor: Very poor John P.: You
set a spoon of honey” to your lips to remind you
of your love, and now honey is tasteless. Next
time she goes away try tomato jam A.S.P. : You
say “Knights of the Southern Cross, arise! ” Don’t
you really mean get down on all fours and grovel ?
.... Rox: Haven’t space to acknowledge pars. They
go in or 0ut.... Gar: Yes ; but where is the Austra-
lian interest ?.... 6 a.m.: Personal pars, specially
acceptable things we don’t know about people we
do know.
do know.. L.L.W.: Yes; but what would have hap-
pened if the exchange had dropped below 3.65?....
Night S.: Go ahead. It is a vivid fragment....
8.1. K.: It sounds magnificent; but what does it
mean? Tractor: Dry bones Clutch: Too far
off our beat... .X.Y.: Please send to Mr. Gill direct.
• ...C.P.M.: Every poet says a few things he doesn’t
need to say, because he must (or thinks he must)
make his lines of equal length. The art lies in
making the join so perfect that you don’t notice it.
Yours stand out like modesty on a successful poli-
tician.... S. Day: We could scarcely keep awake to
finish it....R.0.: The dictionary rhymes in much
the same way—at irregular periods. The essential
thing it lacks is music.. Mulga Wire: Depends on
what is “the best Savings Bank record.” Per thou-
sand of population S. Aus. has most depositors; per
depositor Queensland shows up best (that’s leaving
out the Territory) ; and S. Aus. has most in deposits
per head of population. But the figures are not
much good; anyway, you can’t make a fair compari-
son, because some States have far more children
than others, and that bumps up the N.T. and Queens-
land figures.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.G.: Little staring fashion-plates and a toy Prince.
... .Bill C.: Thanks, but we can’t use it... . P.K.: Don’t
want your electric barmaid E.W.: The sample
caricature doesn’t impress us J.R.L.: Some dismal
things can crawl out of a penny bottle of ink....
E.F.: Close your human-lobster factory and try a
course of hard study. .. .F.C.K.: If the drawing isn’t
a lot better than the joke that is pursuing it your
hopes are hash.... Rustle: Feeble humor, with draw-
ing to match. .. .K.U.F.: There’s a faint ray of pro-
mise—a one-candle-power ray. Work on H.W.G.:
You must be an old man if you grew that chestnut.
“N. G. Nuiti” : Talking about aeroplanes,
why does a machine drop one to three feet
on turning to the left, especially when the
turn is sharp and the machine light? Bi-
and tri-plane jiggers scarcely deviate at all;
it is only the single planers. The curious
part is that no corresponding up-jump
accompanies a right-hand swerve.
“Ex-Dig.”: H.R.H. had a good grip of the
Australian language before he met the A.I.F.
in Belgium. On the sworn affidavit of a
cobber who was there, Edward astonished
a group of officers by responding to a sugges-
tion of refreshments with “My oath! I could
do with a pot.”


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Caimes-ae-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads ana
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding _ sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Eta.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes —Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JULY 21,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons. 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
-THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regularly to:
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Cheapest and Most Picturesque Route to Brisbane,
via Byron Bay and the beautiful Tweed River.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads: —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TOUR FARES. —Sydney-Brisbane, via
Byron Bay: Ist, £6/16/-; 2nd, £4/16/6. Sydney-
Brisbane, via Grafton: Ist, £6/16/-; 2nd, £4/7/6.
For particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE, 3 SUSSEX STREET.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager : J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
Loudon Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to .Time 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . • • • • 770,127 10 0
Reserve Fund .. • • • • • • 272,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunniug, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
W. LI. Hart, Esq. ; Joseph Hughes, Esq., 1.5.0.
General Manager—TV. V. RALSTON.
II n.\l) on ICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up . £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £160,000
Directors: HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, Esq., Chairman ;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LL.D. ; FRANK N. YAR-
WOOD, Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon.
F. JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.; DUNCAN CARSON,
Esq.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Chief Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 167 Places Throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,496,224
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
- land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
Shipping, etc.
Canadiaa-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, June 24, 3 p.m.
R.M.S. TAHITI, July 16.
The most beautiful Scenery in the World—the Canadian Rockies—is on the All-Red Route.
The Prairies, the Great Lakes, Chicago, Niagara Falls and New York can all be visited.
• Through bookings to all Canadian, United States and European points.
Stop-overs on the Railways Arranged.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS OF THIS ROUTE.
PASSENGERS CAN CHANGE AT HONOLULU INTO A DIRECT STEAMER FOR
SAN FRANCISCO
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park. Niagara Falls, etc.
Tofua, from Wellington, July 15.
Connecting Steamer from Sydney, July 8.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
advt
HOLIDAY CRUISES
To Papua and the Pacific Isles.
Trips of Four to Seven Weeks’ Cruising
Through the South Seas.
CALM SEAS, BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
INTERESTING PEOPLE, COMFORTABLE TRAVEL.
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
White Star Line
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Australia to London and Liverpool via
South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals.
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCEES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
MIETIADES 8,000 tons
MARATHON 8,000 tons
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
■Carrying first-class passengers only. Flares
from £96 to England, and from £56 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £36 to £44 to England. From £l9/10/-
to £24/10/- to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability -
Directors:
- £4,765,700
- 3,275,000
- 4,765,700
£12,806,400
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.. President.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland. Ksq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Faitbfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Wilson, Esq; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Heart Office—George Street. Sydney. London Office— 29 Threadneedle Street. E.C.
351 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. • r*-n
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Commoiuwaltfe
advt
of
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaui (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Ag.encies at 2782 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
War Service Homes, as Agent for the Commissioner
(A speciial Department in each Capital City)
JAMES KELL,
Deputy Governor.
Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
July Ist, 1920. Governor.
Shipping.
Osaka ShosenKaisha
(O.S.R. Mercantile Steamship Co. Ltd.).
Direct Monthly Cargo Service Manila,
Hong Kong, Japan anil the East. Tran-
shipment cargo accepted for all Eastern
ports, Pacific Coast ports and Europe,
transhipping at Japan.
BUSHU MARU, sailing middle
June.
KUNAJIRI MARU, sailing middle
July.
For particulars apply to
American Trading Company
of Australia,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
40 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: City 4106, Six Lines.
And at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide.
INTERSTATE PASSENGER SAILINGS
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE.
FOR BRISBANE.
PORT ALMA, MACKAY, BOWEN JETTY, TOWNS-
VILLE JETTY and CAIRNS (transhipping at
Brisbane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and
Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
Australian Steam-
ships Pty., Ltd.
(Tel. 6221.)
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd..
7 Bridge Street.
Australian Steam-
ships Pty., Ltd.
(Tel. 6221.)
Huddart ParkerL^
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation. _ ,
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa every three weeks. Between Melbourne i
and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA
(JAPAN MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY).
Favorite Mail Route to Japan, with connections
at Japan to
EUROPE AND AMERICA.
Tours can be arranged to China, Japan, Korea,
by this Line.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN.
Via Brisbane, Townsville, Thursday
Island, Zamboanga, Manila, Hongkong,
Nagasaki, Kobe and Yokohama.
Monthly Sailings thereafter.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —All Passengers proceeding to
JAPAN must have their passports vised by the Con-
sul-General for Japan in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Japanese Government.
Full particulars of Sailing Dates, Passage Money,
Freights, etc., apply
BURNS, PHILP AND COMPANY, LTD.,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Inter-State Telegraphic Address:
“Macdonald Hamilton.”
Cable Address:
“Iroquois.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Managing Agents for:
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Limited.
Fitzroy Estates Limited.
Blackheatli Collieries Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co.
AGENTS FOR:
British India Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. (except at
Sydney).
P. a O. S. N. Co. (at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle).
Messageries Maritimes Co. (at Melbourne).
Scottish Shire Line ('Turnbull, Martin & Co.), at
Brisbane.
New Zealand Shipping Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Canadian Australasian Royal Mail Line (at Brisbane).
San Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co. —at Queens-
land Ports).
Union S.S. Co. of New Zealand Ltd. (at Queensland
Ports).
Huddart Parker Ltd. (at Queensland Ports).
London Assurance Corporation (Marine), at Brisbane.
Carpentaria Lighterage Co. Ltd. (at Brisbane).
Also Agents for Queensland Line of Steamers, London
to Brisbane.
Colliery Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
BRANCHES at Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Adelaide, Melbourne. Sydney. Suva (Fiji), Mary-
borough, Bundaberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Head Office: Mary Street, Brisbane.


advt
>-co
Ul UUI
ca o
ca =c
possess the distinctive style which appeals
to the cultured taste, combined with the
wearing qualities sought by those who
demand long service.
We illustrate a choice Tan Willow Calf
Bal.,
40/-, 557-
in Patent Coltskin with dull Calf Legs,
557-
In full sizes and medium and wide fittings.
Postage Extra.
WHITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Our Sales of Diamonds.
We have sold more
Diamonds during this
year of drought than
in any previous year.
Last year was our
best year previously,
but this financial year
just closing we have
sold over 50 per cent,
more Diamonds than
last year.
Fine Diamonds, set in
Platinum, £2O.
We can only conclude that the greatly dis-
criminating public has seen the evidence of
our No-Profiteering Prices, and so purchased
largely from our immense stocks.
Never through the long years of war did we
alter the prices of our Diamond stocks, not-
withstanding that Diamonds rose 100 per cent.
Our prices for Diamonds are to-day far below
those of England.
Fairfax 8 Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
SS- 23 825 Hunter Street.
Wanted.
TO GUNSMITHS.
WANTED.— A first-class GUNSMITH
MECHANIC; constant employment
at good wages. Apply with copies creden-
tials, and stating ( age—
COLONIAL AMMUNITION COMPANY,
LTD., Auckland, New Zealand.
Legal Notice.
TO JOHN CHARLES BROUGHTON
husband of Clara Bruton formerly
Clara Broughton deceased and at one time of
the City of Christchurch in New Zealand
and all persons claiming by through or under
him.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
30th day of April, 1920, by a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the 30th day of Sep-
tember, 1920, your claim to the estate of
Clara Bruton formerly Clara Broughton who
died intestate at the City of Christchurch in
New Zealand on the 21st day of November,
191 S, failing which the estate will be distri-
buted among those entitled thereto disregard-
ing your claim.
Dated at Wellington this 30th day of
April, 1920.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Wanted.
Cabinetmakers and Billiard Table
Craftsmen.
117 ANTED, for New Zealand, several skilled Cabinet-
vv makers and Billiard Table Experts for sub-
stantial firm with well-equipped and comfortable
factory. Permanent employment to sober, skilled
craftsmen, with opportunities for advancement as
travelling experts and branch-managers. Fare across
refunded after short satisfactory service.
Apply, stating age and experience, to—
“BILLIARDS,”
Care Charles Haines Advertising Agency,
The Dalgety Building, Wellington, N.i.
Missing Friends.
WANTED to know tho whereabouts of
HUGH BOYD. 10 Orchard Street,
Strabane, Co. Tyrone, Ireland.
Used the
World Over
r £z
MOTOR
...CARS
June 1920 Special Lines Post
1. The “Barry” Self-filler Fountain
Pen, British made, fine or medium gold 14/6
mb. Post free /
2. Nickel Pocket Knife, two blades, with ring
each end to open, does not injure the finger 4/9
nails. Made in Sheffield. Post free
3. Nickel, Sheffield Steel Combined
Knife and Fork, for picnics, bushmen, 5/g
station-men ; >a very superior article. Post free,
4. Same Line, Knife, Fork and Spoon,
Post free 8/-
5. The Famous Golden Beehive Razor,
made by Marples of Sheffield ; a beautiful razor.
White Xylo handle, § blade only. Post 12/-
free '
Send Stamps, Postal Notes or Cheque to
BADDELEY 8 CO.,
Hardware
Specialists,
Forest Road, Hurstville, Sydney.
MONEY REFUNDED IF ARTICLE IS NOT
SATISFACTORY.
THE GREAT BRITISH
RHEUMATIC REMEDY.
GOUT
and RHEUMATIC PILLS
The Famous Medicine that relieves
RH.UMATISM, GOUT, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA,
The Great Discovery of the Age.
Purely Vegetable. Sure and Safe.
All Drug Stores. English price, 1/3 and 31-
Front & Co., 229, Strand, London.
An Amberola
means happy
winter nights.
Seated before a warm, cosy fire,
with an Edison Amberola to play
you the best of music, is the most
comfortable and enjoyable way
of spending winter nights.
The Edison Amberola, with its
Diamond Stylus Reproducer, has
no bothersome needles to change,
and has a smooth, mellow tone tb at means splendid
voice and musical reproduction.
Call on the nearest Edison dealer for a demonstra-
tion, or write for details post frse.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only),
364-872 Kent Street, Sydney.
advt
SO
5
that are reliable and accurate.
We carry the finest range in Australia
advt
“A marvel at the price
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Itillc. calibre, lSlii.. round seed
bnrrel; open rear and knife-edged front sight#.
Weight, about 241 b
(Po.u S c -N.S.W., 1/3; other Stutw. 2/2.1
25/=
advt
“Simple and extra strong in construction."
810. Winchester Single-shot liille, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim tire cartridges, 21iu. heayy round steel barrel,
plain trigger. Bolt action, ladder rear sight: length of rifle
over all. 37*in.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 2/- ; other States, 3/8.)
60/-
advt
RIM. The Celebrated “Maine” Rifle, designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim fire.
It can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care us the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate.
Weight about 31b. Pitted with plain V-back sight
Fitted with ladder rear sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
CO 00
COCO
advt
Remarkably accurate and hard hitting.
Plenty of range and power.
825. Savage Hi-Power Reneatin f r Ham-
merless Rifle, 22, 303 or 30/30 calibres, 0
shot, 20in. round tapered barrel, take down, weight Cllb., muzzle velocity,
2Sooft. seconds, may be used up to 3HO yards without changing from
point blank adjustments of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patched bullets (TO
grains) are used, giving a striking energy of 1200 ft. pounds; carriage
paid
£l3 5/
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
advt
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy.”
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about oflb. ..
Freight paid,
£6/17/6
-r -•-rrfi.
New Savage N.R.A. Rifle Model 1919 is a carefully-
designed instrument of precision. It lias full military
stock, oil finish, pistol grip, with bands and swivel for
sling; Marine Corps type front sight, wind gauge, aperture rear sight, five-shot detach-
able magazine. Barrel is 25 inches long. Chambered for .22 long rifle cartridges only.
Double-firing pin, short hammer throw. Designed primarily for target
work. Weight about 711 b. Freight paid
£, 7J10/-
■•^-^---TT«l====g
“A suitable weapon for the boy ”
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.,
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight. 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
40/-
advt
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
838. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine bolds 15 cartridges. Weight 511 b
Freight paid,
ft
o
V'
I
Marble’s Waterproof Match-boxes
Absolutely Water- and Moisture-proof.
Made of Seamless Drawn- Brass, Heavily Nickelled.
Indispensable to the Outdoorsman. Post free,
m
* ; y-i
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles,
Model, 25/20-, 32,-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire,
half magazine, 2 4 in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Barrel Freight paid,
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid,
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines, 20in.
round barrel, weight about oflb Freight paid,
1892
full or
£B/15/-
£9
£7/17/6
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List Post Free to any address.
1C
mSTR7ILnfS GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS *
aim TOBACCONISTS
advt
City Sports Depot
99 King St, also at
Newcastle d Brisbane


Beautiful Lizette Parkes Praises
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
Miss
LIZETTE
PARKES
\from a
photo).
mm
Miss* Lizette Pai'kes, the charming
Australian Actress, who is now de-
lighting Sydney Theatre-goers, as
Miss Fairchild in “Three Wise Fools”
at the Criterion Theatre, writes us
as follows: —
Dear Sirs, —
I am writing to tell you
what a strong advocate I am
oif Dr, Sheldon’s New Discov-
ery. It is the only thing
that does me any good when
I have a bad cold or cough,
or when my throat feels sore
or strained. During the past
two years I have used it
on numerous occasions and
always with the best results.
It is an excellent remedy,
and 1 never feel safe to start
on a trip without having a
bottle of it in my bag.
With very best wishes for
“New Discovery,”
I am, sincerely yours,
(Sgd.) LIZETTE PARKES.
stops Coughs—Banishes Colds.
It won’t take the folks at home Ions: to notice the difference when they start to
use Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery. For New Discovery is known far and wide as an
unequalled Cough Remedy. It’s the finest remedy you ever used—bar none. When
you use it you can be mighty sure that Coughs and Colds will soon vanish.
No wonder, though, for Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery has been compiled on
scientific lines, and is designed to relieve the cold without upsetting the digestive
organs. Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is the quickest, safest and best-known remedy
for Coughs, Colds,, Influenza, Bronchitis, and all Throat and Chest troubles. It is a
remedy that can always be relied upon.
DON’T FORGET TO TAKE A BOTTEE HOME TO-NIGHT. PRICE, 1/6 and 3/-
D? Sheldons
m
r«m
AND
OLDS
50 to
550 H.P.
Low Fuel
Consumption.
/
MARSHALL
Marshall |
Locomobiles
Sturdy in construction and built for heavy power work.
Marshall Locomobiles are renowned for their remarkable
economy in running costs owing to low fuel consumption. They
use wood, coal or any combustible fuel.
High-pressure superheated steam, specially adapted for Mining-
Plants, Crushing Plants, Textile Machinery, Flour Mills, Saw
Mills, etc.
Get full details.
Write for information on
Cole, Marchent & Morley
Ltd.
Uniftow Steam Engines.
Sandycroft Ltd.
Winding Engines
Air Compressors
Ernest Newell Co. Ltd.
Grinding Machinery,
Rotary Kilns,
Brookhirst
Standard
B. and C. Motor Starters.
CATALOGUES AND PARTICULARS FREE.
British-Australian Engineering Co. Ltd.
National Mutual Buildings, Cr. COLLINS and QUEEN STREETS, MELBOURNE.
Box 1303 G.P.O.
N.S.W. Agents: Austral Engineering Supply Co., Kent Street, Sydney.
S. Aus. Agents: Parsons & Robertson, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Through the Night.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A STILLNESS broods on hill and tree,
Along the coast there gleams no
light,
As over darkened land and sea
Black swans go trailing through the nigHt.
Where pines their sombre tops uplift
I hear their plaintive notes descend ;
They call like weary souls that drift
On some doomed way without an end.
Though all the world in slumber deep
Seems locked, its senses sealed and bound,
Perchance some child starts up from sleep.
And shares with me that midnight sound.
That sound that through the midnight air
Rings down the line from swan to swan .
I know not whence they come, nor where
To what fijr bourne— they journey on.
There is no stir on sea or shore,
No wind of all the winds steals forth
To wake the pines, yet evermore
The swans go trailing to the north.
As through the midnight deeps afar,
League after lonesome league they fly,
I feel and think and dream they are
More wise in many things than I.
In air, sea-sweetened, cold and pure,
They bathe their bosoms as they go;
I feel, in truth, they know for sure
Some things I know not, and would know.
A large star glimmers in the west,
One star unclouded, pulsing light;
I know not what may be their quest,
The purpose of their darkened flight.
Oh, I would know the peace they feel
At dawn upon some water-place
By stirless reeds, where never keel
Sows ripples on its gleaming face.
And I, like them, at sunset hour,
On some green swamp would love to brood,
Where tall rush-spear and red brush-flower
O’ertopping fern and bracken stood.
They know their pathway through the wide
Dark night, o’er headland, reef and dune —
The falling tide, the flowing tide
In salty creek and lofte lagoon.
I stand in darkness seeking light,
Keen-sensed to pierce the mystery
That men call life, while through the night
The swans trail north o’er land and sea.
They know the ways of wave and wind,
That sway and rustle rush and reed ;
For from the Universal Mind
They draw the wisdom that they need.
The night is thrilled with mystery,
On land and sea no light shines forth,
As over rock and dune and tree
The swans go trailing to the north.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Breed of the Sea.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CAPTAIN Herrod, of the ocean tramp
Nautilus, had to admit that Cooney
could work, perhaps as no other liv-
ing man could. Cooney might not be his
name, but it went; for it might be, so far
as anybody knew to the contrary. It seemed
as though he hated toil, this giant of muscle,
and wanted to crush it. Always there was
about him the suggestion that he might pre-
sently catch the ship up between his two
powerful hands and twist it into splinters if
work was not furnished him. Always, it
seemed to the captain, he was fiendishly
working night and day.
Captain Herrod had never seen another
man he feared in all his. tempestuous life,
lie was in awe of Cooney, though, and with
no special reason for it that he could
give. It was like the superstitious
dread of some unnatural thing that he had
never seen but carried in his soul; and now
the wireless operator had added a new spirit
of unrest to this senseless dread in a message
he had plucked out of the empty air. With
one eye on the man he read it over again:
“Height six feet three; weight 220 pounds;
sandy hair; livid scar across chest; Irish ;
well educated; a madman when drunk; a
seaman for the last twenty years, mostly on
the coast and the South Seas; wanted for
murder. Report suspects to Brisbane office.”
“What do you think of it?” Herrod jambed
the paper into the fist of his first mate.
“Wallace picked it out of the clouds a bit
ago.”
“That he had better not let Cooney know
of this, that’s what I think. Blast Marconi
and his wireless! I wish we could throw
the thing overboard. No good ever comes of
these unnatural things. But that paper
don’t refer to Cooney.”
No, of course it didn’t. Damn the idea,
anyhow ! Why did it keep on worrying him ?
“Height six feet three; sandy hair; livid
scar across chest.” He twisted the paper
savagely in his hands as he came down from
the bridge and watched it absently until it
floated out of sight.
It was nearly eight bells of the morning
watch when the captain made out someone
hanging over him. Cooney’s left hand was
crunching at his arm while its mate poked a
folded paper under his nose. He sprang to
his feet in alarm and struck at the man—a
febrile, inefficient blow against those knotted
muscles —before he noticed the message, a
call from some vessel in trouble on the
Barrier Reef. Herrod bounded past the man
to the deck and sought Wallace, at the wire-
less. for the calling ship’s position.
“Nor’-west by west, sir. and a good forty
miles away by the chart.”
“What name?”
“The Marcoola, bound for Singapore.
They’ve been calling since three o’clock this
morning and got no answer till I came on
duty. It means that there is no one within
a hundred miles of them excepting us.”
“Tell them that this is only a tramp
freighter, not much at speed, but that we’ll
do our best.”
Cooney received no orders and he needed
none. In the general hubbub of rounding up
the ship he worked by himself and he made
no mistakes. In his hopeless isolation from
the verbal fellowship of his mates it seemed
as though fate had pityingly given him a
special sense which put him into possession
of their thoughts without the medium of
words. With the first shifting of the helm
he fell easily into his place and did his work
like a huge machine which meshes unerringly
with the driving cogs.
The captain was touched with a sense of
compassion for this man whose sense of duty
might be leading him to the doom of a felon.
Cooney was over six feet and his hair was
sandy. He would, certainly suffer for the
likeness when they reached port. Did he
hear the scar? lie called a seaman to him.
a big-hearted Irishman who always spoke
kindly to Cooney.
“Clancy,” he asked, “did you ever see
Cooney’s chest?”
••Divii a glimpse of it! He always wears
that dungaree jumper buttoned to the neck.”
“Then, Clancy, would you just try to
see it once —if it bears a scar?”
“Of course, Captain, if you wish it, when
lie’s dead, but divii a bit before.”
The man would have dared the maintop
in the midst of the fiercest Queensland
cyclone, and the captain knew it. Cooney,
plucking at his sleeve, brought the colloquy
to an end. He thrust into Herrod’s hand
a frantic call from the distressed ship:
“For God’s sake, put on all the steam
you’ve got. • We’re sinking, and there’s
women and children aboard.”
Sinking ! And with all those intervening
miles of water —15 as the wind sweeps, but
more than twice that as the Nautilus would
have to go! Iloss’s Channel, one of the
uncharted passages in the Barrier Reef, lay
between them, a belt of coral a net-
work of countering currents, a whirlpool of
foam and swirling waters. Across the port
bow of the tramp her Crew could already
see in the distance this white line that en-
circled the summit of the coral crags as
though they were capped with perpetual
snow. Ahead, miles and miles till it hit
the horizon, stretched a cold and merciless*,
expanse which bore no sign of hope or com-
passion, and somewhere, out of its midst,
calling to them frantically for help, a ship
was sinking—women and children trembling,
crowding together, saying good-bye to loved
ones and to life; the only solid thing in
all that wilderness of waters, settling, slowly
sinking beneath their feet. They knew that
help was coming, but what did that avail
them, caught as they were already in the
taunting i grasp of death? Perhaps they
could even see the black columns of smoke
that rolled up from the tramp as it pounded
heavily along to their rescue. Still they
were sinking, settling, slipping away from
hope. The consciousness of it all became
unendurable to Captain Herrod, standing
alone on the bridge, and he left his place
for the deck among his men.
“Is there one of you who knows the pas-
sage through those reefs? Have any of
you been through? It would shorten our
course by 30 miles.” The men turned from
him to that carpet of white death in sullen
wonder. The idea was absurd.
“Perhaps I could; I’ll try. I’ve done it
before in a pearling lugger, but the weather
was calm.”
The captain whirled towards the voice.
Before him, sandy hair, weight 220 pounds
at least; and across the massive chest —
bared also for the struggle—a livid scar!
Cooney, wanted for murder—and the gal-
lows !
“I know —I read the wireless.” Cooney’s
voice was low, but wonderfully steady.
“You’ve done your duty ; I’ll do mine.”
Cooney*, sauntering over to the wheel,
caught it between his powerful hands and
twirled it watchfully, as though a little sus-
picious of its strength, but perfectly con-
fident of his own. The prow of the ship
responded steadily to his pressure until:
she was presently nosing into the edge of
the hissing broth. The smoothly-laid muscles
bulged and knotted heavily as the rudder
swung grudgingly half-way upon its heavy
post, then, baulked by the strain against it,
hung sullen, as though uncertain which had
the mastery, the man or the thwarting cur-
rent.
The chains groaned in their channels, but
the man won. He set his feet determinedly
against the timbered frame and, putting his
shoulder to the wheel, strained against it
till the blood that was in his heart slipped
into the veins of his face and turned them
purple. The current gradually yielded,
though, and the ship slipped through the
precarious passage between two semi-sub-
merged boulders of coral.
Around them, cutting off the blue-grey
horizon of the sea. was an unbroken wail
of shifting white. Even the passage through
which they had just entered seemed to have
been closed behind them and they were pri-
soners of the deep, from which they were
cut off by a belt-line of its own fiercest
handiwork.
“It’s like a solid wall. Is there no open-
ing?” the captain asked, sweeping the sky-
line in vain for a break in the boiling curd.
A smile curved the lip of the face that
was pressed hard against the wheel, but
the eyes never shifted from the path of the
ship.
“There’s an outlet, though it’s a despe-
rate run in a sea like this.” he answered,
and then added: “Look yonder !”
“Yonder” at first seemed only a continua-
tion of the ragged wall; but as they ap-
proached it opened into two parallel lines,
one just within the other, and a precarious
passage valleyed out between them.
Cooney, flushed, steaming and somewhat
winded, bent easily over his task and spun
the wheel, as though testing it, between his
big hands, while they slid across the lagoon
of placid waters where a trepang boat might
defy the navies of the world. Somewhere
ahead of them, from outside, the gale was
piling furious wave upon wave into that
narrow valley of water with a force that
nothing could resist: hurling, driving, maul-
ing them against the combing rocks that
tore and ground them into a seething basin
of foam.
“I’ll do my best,” Cooney said to the
captain. “But it may not be enough. I’ve
been through here several times, but never
before in a gale like this, and it’s madness
to try. To-morrow—but there are women
and children over there.”
The big arms stiffened. With a lurch
of his body the wheel came over and only
(Continued on next page.)


'//.
Va
i
l
l
%
%
%
'A
V.
V.
ll
A
1
//
0
V,
%
NEED ZAM-BUK EVERY DAY
OUTDOOR workers, who brave all weathers in rough work, generally have
skin trouble of one kind or another. Perhaps the skin gets hard,
and cracks most painfully and dangerously; or it may be that the cold
or dirt gets into some trivial injury inflammation and disease almost certainly
following. Cold-sores round the mouth and nostrils are also common just
now, and so are chapped hands, chilblains, chafing of the face, etc.
Zam-Buk is equally soothing, healing and curative for all such conditions of the
skin, and is consequently a real boon. This pure and powerful balm takes the “smart”
out, kills pain, “cools” inflammation, and allays itching. Continued use of Zam-Buk
ensures perfect healing with new healthy skin, and “tones up” the tissue to resist cold
and disease. Every outdoor worker should carry a pot in his pocket.
BUSHMAN’S CUTS AND WOUNDS.
Mr. John Brown, 17 Dix Street, Chippendale, Sydney, writes: —
“During my work in the country at fencing, clearing land and
scrub-cutting, 1 have met with many accidents from axe or knife,
some of which have been very severe. But I always had Zam-Buk
in the camp for emergencies, and have found it splendid. My hands
would get terribly knocked about, but Zam-Buk always healed them
in a very rapid manner.
“I have found Zam-Buk absolutely necessary in my bush life,
where one is so far removed from any chance of medical attention.”
A MINER’S PRAISE
FOR ZAM-BUK.
“Whilst following my oc-
cupation at the Great Cobar
Mine,” says Mr. J. Farns-
worth, of Becker Street.
Cobar. N.S.W., “I find
nothing to equal Zam-Buk
for the cuts and bruises 1
am constantly receiving. No
matter how bad the cuts and
bruises —and I sometimes get
some nasty ones —Zam-Buk
takes away the pain almost
instantly, and in a day or so
the wounds disappear.”
ZAM-BUK is
remarkably ef-
fective for the
treatment of eczema, raw, chapped
hands, chilblains, cliafings, cold sores,
sciatica, stiff neck, cold feet, running
sores, bad legs, ringworm, scalp sores,
cuts, burns, scalds, sprains, rheuma-
tism, poisoned wounds, ulcers', sore
hands, etc. ZAM-BUIv is obtainable
of all Chemists and Stores at 1/6 and
3/6 per pot, or post free from C. E.
FULFORD (Aust.). Ltd., 39 PITT
STREET, SYDNEY.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES.
THE GREAT WINTER SKIN-BALM
am Buk
THE SOOTHING HEAI F»
FOR INJURI ES&SKiN DISEASES.
the grumbling chain as it rasped in the chan-
nel told the story of the effect, but the ship
swung a couple of points and merely grazed
a submerged reef that lay in its path ; then
it lifted viciously into the air as it tilted
across another that would have split it from
end to end in that awful current except for
the uncertain cushion of water that carried
it over on the crest. It was skill, it was
courage, it was daring supreme; but most of
all it was the cool, calculating judgment of
the man at the wheel, who never once lacked
in his confidence that those strong arms of
bis were able to do his bidding.
In the very midst of the channel, as they
bent their way among its curves, an ava-
lanche of foam told them of the death that
lay for them below the surface. For one v
brief instant Cooney falitered. Had his
nerve deserted him at last? The veins in
his neck filled up and choked almost to
bursting. Ilis face went red. then purple;
every muscle in hQ" powerful body seemed
straining, as he tugged and hurled his
strength against that oi; the sea. But he
conquered. Surely, steadily, though slowly
to the point of torture, the rudder bur-
rowed its way into the current; the boat
swerved in its course a little and cleared
destruction by a hair. But the cheer that
began on the captain’s own lips barely
reached Cooney’s ears before it died. As
they rounded the point and faced the open
sea again the Marcoola, wounded unto death
and breaking rapidly across, lay in full
view, a little to port, hard on a reef.
All that had been dared was useless. So
near the wreck that they could sec the
appealing faces turned hopefully toward
them, the Nautilus now rode in compara-
tively smooth water, but roaring between them
was a cauldron of white foam, a ledge of
coral that no ship could cross. Even
Cooney’s head shook hopelessly in answer
to the captain’s glance ; there was no pass-
age.
“The waves pounded her fairly over the
reef,” he said. “It’s cut off her bottom
clean as a knife, and when she slides clear
she’ll go down like a stone.”
Upon the Marcoola’s decks women and
children—only a few, thank God!—could be
seen, facing with the men the doom that
could not be escaped. The sight was mad-
dening even to seamen inured to every form
of hardship and accustomed to danger. They
clustered about the captain, discussing their
fruitless plans.
“Lower away, and keep the life-lines
clear!”
From the port davits of the Nautilus a
boat swung out over the rail. The oars
were already "in their places—an instant
would unship them—and, swinging idly
from the stern, two lines, the life-threads for
two score of people, dangled in preliminary
repose; while in the extreme prow, erect
and commanding, stood Cooney. His head
was bare, and as he lifted one of his mighty
arms in signal a break in the clouds per-
mitted the sun to rest for a minute full
upon hint and gild the silhouetted figure
like a golden statue of hope done in heroic
size. Inch by inch the small boat con-
quered the swirling waters and carried those
feeble threads of hope in safety towards the
wreck.
Just how it occurred no one could ever
remember. With most of the channel be-
hind him and under the lee of the wreck,
some irresistible current caught up the boat,
and against it even Cooney’s great arms
failed. He struggled desperately for every
inch, but was carried, like a chip, upon the
crest of the wave and hurled against a reef
almost directly under the Marcoola’s set-
tling stern. His boat was crushed, a feather
in a cyclone ; but his head came bobbing to
the surface, and he caught the line, though
somewhat heavily, that was thrown to him.
and was dragged up over the side of the
sinking ship. As he climbed over the rgil
he waved, like a banner of victory, those
precious life-lines he had clung to and had
dared so much to carry across. But the
cheer that sprang up was hushed to a prayer.
As he staggered over to the mast and began
to lash the lines into place it was seen that
he was covered with blood and badly
wounded. .
With one arm broken and useless, and his
great chest drenched with blood, Cooney
still worked, a whirlwind of decisive
action, side by side with the officers of the
doomed boat. Not a word was spoken be-
tween them, but all around were turbulent
voices—the roar of destruction, the shriek of
defeated waves. Most of the rigging had
gone by the board, and every lurch of the
ship, as she lifted and fell, was tolled off by
the cry of breaking timbers and grinding
plates. The Marcoola’s stern was steadily
settling as her broken back doubled down
across the comb of the reef upon which she
lay.
V- •* * *
‘‘lt’s the last trip.” The Marcoola’s cap-
tain spoke. “She is sliding clear now, and
will go straight down. You had better hurry
up and go—and good-bye.”
Cooney looked about in surprise. He had
not realised how fast the work was being
done until he now saw that the shipwrecked
castaways, so recently at his side, were
looking back at him across the channel from
the Nautilus; but there was the captain,
sentenced by a tradition of the sea to go
down with his ship. The iron under his
feet dropped suddenly, a foot or more, and
slid a little back on the reef. He seized
the captain about the middle with his sound
arm and dragged him toward the ropes. The
man fought honestly for his tradition and
struck out with both hands, but the struggle
was brief for a giant likp Cooney, and. swing-
ing his man clear of the deck, he dumped
him bodily into his place in the buoy. He
was just in time, for the Marcoola’s prow
had doubled down like a knife-blade and
slid from the reef into the sea. while the
stern, still swinging, but almost clear, dipped
at a sharp angle and began to grate over
the supporting rock as it scraped across to
its final plunge.
Cooney drew himself up to his full height
and looked the captain squarely in the face.
“When you get across,” he said, “speak a
kind word for me if you feel like it. Tell
the men that all my life I have lived like a
dog. Tell them that I died like a man.”
BILL BOW YANG.
Watteau!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
copyright laws of America allow
our cousins to borrow a fair amount
of our literature, so why shouldn’t
we borrow some of their methods for our
stories? Still, if it wasn’t that I need next
week’s board I wouldn t ask a soul to read
this one.
He stood before her with hopeless eyes,
drinking in the sheer perfection of her be-
guilement and unattainable charm. She
should be his—she must. But could he pay
the price? He had never seen her before
to-day ; and now he told himself he was to
be pitied for the fact. In figure, face, grace
she was superb. No wonder the town was
raving over her! She was the theme of
the newspapers of half a dozen capitals.
Full of indecision, he moved away. That
night he turned the fact over in his mind.
True, at one time she had belonged to Har-
rington. How he despised Harrington ! The
sleek bounder had no right to such a beauty.
The thought of Harrington’s untastily-
furnished house crowned with her beauty
was enough to make him sick. He rang
the bell for his valet. The whisky and soda
brought decision and he went to bed. She
was to be at the Artists’ Show to-morrow.
He would be there and leave the matter
to the gods.
Morning awoke the thoughts of the night
before, and his wife, who previously had
shared his inner thoughts, noticed, as only
a woman can, his abstraction when he kissed
her good-bye. He had said nothing to her
of the matter, keeping the first secret from
her that he had had in their eight mouths
of married life. As he kissed her he smiled
to think of tin* surprise she must get.
There was an hour to kill, so he caught
a taxi and toid the chauffeur to drive to a
point directly opposite the .show. He sat
quietly smoking for about 10 minutes ; then
the wait disturbing his nerves he drove
round to his club. Pereival Hodgson and
Claude Duval were in the lobby. He could
never stand those cads. The sons of rich
country farmers, they had somehow or other
managed to .scrape into the club—the club
of which his father and forefathers had been
members since its inception. Of course he
had to speak to them occasionally, but when-
ever he could he avoided their conversation.
This morning as he passed he could not
help hearing Percival’s remarks.
“She’s a real peach,” he was saying, and
his companion’s reply, placed him in no doubt
as to whom they were discussing. His
blood ran cold and then hot. for he had blue
blood in his veins, and longed to choke them
for mentioning his idol. He paused, took
a step forward, and then, remembering that
he would have to bring her name into the
quarrel, turned and entered the lounge*
Rawsome and Coutts were talking of her
when he entered, but these he knew would
appreciate her charms. The next half-hour
he spent with them, and when he left car-
ried with him their good wishes towards his
success.
The Artists’ Show was crowded, and, as he
expected, the most of the men formed an
admiring group around her.
She sat back in her chair in a studied
pose, and as he approached he sensed rather
than saw her alluring smile, Hood Hod!
What a Woman! He must take her back
with him to-day.
He had been married eight months.
He thought of the first time he had met his
wife. Far away in France, in a little
peasant’s cottage. He recalled the nights
he had spent with her family—old papa, who
used to give the girls something to do each
night lest they should in their idleness
dream of the ways of the Devil. Old papa
was a tartar, and was going to wed again.
Poor girl, she had not known happiness
till he met her; and then—lie remembered
the promises he had made. Some of them
he had kept. Up till now he had been a
good husband and she had appreciated the
fact.
Under the lights of New York she had
blossomed from a shy little country girl into
the talk of his set. He had done what he
could to make up for the time she had lost
“somewhere in France.” She was grateful,
and he knew she would ask no more. He
smiled again as he thought of the surprise
she was soon to get.
Young Jackson, the auctioneer from up
town, entered the salon, and the men began
to show some excitement. He must get a
look at her before everything was decided.
His heart fluttered as he saw Harrington
walk up the room. He was d —d if he’d
let Harrington beat him ! Her neck, white*
as alabaster, reflected the envious stare of
her adorers.
Her features, high-bred, delicate, yet some-
how indescribably wanton, stunned him into
silence. Her expression had not changed.
Save for that enamelled smile and the
shadowy pools of unfathomable laughter
which lay drowmed in the azure of her eyes,
she might have been a dream-woman.
He roused from his thoughts to discover
that the men were bidding.
“$10,000.” said Harrington.
Well, Harrington couldn’t beat him.
“$12,000.” lie said. The crowd pressed closer.
The auctioneer braced himself to his task,
knowing that these two men would fight.
She smiled on tranquilly—the only one
who remained unchanged throughout tin*
scene.
“$15,000,” roared Harrington.
“She’s mine, damn you !” he said between
his teeth: “$20,000.” Harrington gave him
an awful look of hatred. “Another 10 thou.,”
was all he said.
“And five more.” he countered.
The crowd pressed closer still. Harring-
ton turned and walked from the room, giving
him a look that boded no good, before he
crossed the threshold.
“She’s yours,” said the auctioneer, and
took his cheque.
On the way home he thought over schemes
for getting the masterpiece he had’bought
into the house and hung without the know-
ledge of his wife. He smiled as he thought
of the surprise she would get. She adored
Old Masters. ,
DARBY.


1
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD ,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Offioe—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street. Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
is a pure rich milk combined
with the extract of malted grains
—very digestible and nutritious.
Prepared in a moment. Delicious
to the taste.
Sample will be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps
to Hutchinson & Co., Ltd.,
26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
for*
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
s»T
SSWBKB
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, VP.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
681 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
advt
0
*
r
s
a*
m
m
&
3d. per
packet same
as Spearmint
and
Doublemint
Fine for the teeth*
appetite
and digestion
Obtainable from
Chemists.
Confectioners
and Storekeepers
Or send 3d. to
WRIGLEV’S
Box 2376.
£. P. 0.. Sydney.
advt
Kept Ri^ht
A-2©
s
188
iiipl
HI
*
IpHH
i
i
FOR
.'XvViAV
m
vjsr.vv
i
88MS
«
5.
RUPTURE.
A FREE TRIAL.
If you are troubled with this complaint, write
us and we will send you our catalogue, fully
describing our PATENT Allt CUSHION
APPLIANCE. This appliance does away
with all cumbersome springs, giving a feel-
ing of ease and comfort from the first day’s
use. It is the most scientific appliance yet
invented for this complaint. It will hold a
rupture firmly and comfortably under all
conditions. To prove what we st:> •
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL.
If it is not satisfactory we do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men, women and
children, and the price is within the reach of
all.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE posted free
anywhere.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries!
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SICHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England.
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
LIVER-ISMS
The liver is the regulator of health. If the
liver is active and well, good health and happi-
ness prevail; but once you allow your liver ta
get torpid and sluggish, life be-
comes a misery. Dyspepsia,
Indigestion, Biliousness
Constipation, Headaches
and Melancholy assail
you,resulting iq lackof
energy, loss of mem-
ory and ill-health ;
but remember
Carter’s Little
Liver Pills touch
the liver and cure
all liver ills. Try them to-day and see how
much better you will be to-morrow. They
-ever fail. Children like them.
Small Pill—Small Dos* —Small Price.
CARTERS
f
ITTLE
SVER
PILLS
GENUINE must
bear signature
advt
>. / ••. v •y. '
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
%
m
C-3i
Kemjngtov
and Pistol
Cartridges
Accurately made and carefully tested in the arms for which
they are designed, these cartridges assure correct function*
tag and maximum accuracy.
!&&&*■
for Shooting Right
Regardless of the make or calibre of your favorite revolver
or automatic, your dealer can supply you with a box of
.Remington UMC cartridges thoroughbreds in everv
particular. *
Catalogues free upon
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. P. Bryant, Australian Representative Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne


MANCROYIYK
LEATHER
LTI
For Greater Power
Transmission.
To reduce the leakage of power is the aim of
every power-plant owner. Faulty belting is
a continual source of worry and a drain on
profits. Be wise, benefit by the experience
of those who have tried and proved Man-
grove Leather or Raw Hide Belting. It is the
finest belting. made. Every belt guaranteed.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Charles Ludowici, Managing Director),
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney,
W. Australia: Gibbs, Bright &Co., Fremantle
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
Victoria and Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co.,
Melbourne.
Economy in Service.
comes from using the right steel for a given purpose.
For turning tools for Brass, Copper, Bronze and White Metal use.
“D.S.W.” BRAND STEEL
It is a special Steel made for this particular class of work.
This Steel is supplied in squares from $ to li inches, and is easy to
harden. Full particulars given in our stock list. Send for one to-day.
Write to Desk “A” for Prices, etc.
The Eagle (EX Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel, 379-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Kaigroorlie.
Cliff Street, Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Charles Atkins*Co. Ltd., Adelaide
Paul & Cray Ltd., Newcastle.
Dick’s Batata Belting
for True Economy.
advt
trade:
MARK
Sole Agents: Registered
JAMES HARDIE &. COY. LTD.
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wirnyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 Lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
30 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Newcastle Agents—Paul & Gray Ltd.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.’’ Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not oniy to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
t
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2 % inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made "expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, .. pleasure-boats, oanoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £27/10/-
Correspondence invited.
B. U W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Brunswick
Street,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD..
Cnlwulla Chambers,
Castlereagb Street, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Tcrtb
Thomson-Bennett Magnetos are British Throughout,
They are the result of Eight Years’ experience in Magneto Construction. ,
They are not a hurried production rushed on the market as a result ol present conditions. . . . . .
Durin« the war THOMSON-BENNETT MAGNETOS were severely tried under every conceivable service condition, and emerged triumphant, being
* proclaimed by the highest authorities as good as “the best that ever was.” The following are some particulars as to our stocks:—
2-Cylinder Thomson-Bennett Magneto, 50deg. (Clock or Anti-Clock) £l3/13/- each
2 „ „ „ „ 45deg. „ „ „ £l3/13/- each
2 ;; „ „ „ 55deg. „ „ „ ... £l3/13/- each
4 „ „ „ „ „ „ £l9 each
6 , „ „ „ £24 each
O yj p p P '* ** "
The prices quoted are extremely low for such genuinely high-grade Magnetos, and early aP£icatioi>t is-urged as when Present stocks are sold higher prices will have
to be asked for on account of increased costs. CORRESPONDENCE CORDIALLi INMIED.
SWANS LIMITED]
The House for Motor
Engineers’ Supplies,
304 Pitt Street, Sydney.
advt
Speeding up Production
is easy where there are
MODERN MACHINE TOOLS
No amount of urging or reshuffling of old-fashioned plant can give effect to increased production in a machine
shop. The logical method of “speeding-up” is to use machine-tools that are designed to meet modern deman
for rapid production. Rigidity, power and convenience—these are three factors which every modern machine
tool needs. We.invite enquiries for modern machine-shop equipment.
Universal and Plain Milling Machines. High-speed Lathes, Drilling Machines, Shapers, Grinders,
Hack Saws, Screwing Machines. Also full range of Engineers’ Supplies. Write for particulars to
ParKe ($X Lacy Co. Ltd.,
Cable Address: “LACY,” Sydney.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney
w
The Importance of Tight Valves
Nothing impairs so much the efficiency of a plant, increases the time
taken in repairs and overhauls, err is more potentially a danger, as the
valve that is not tight.
The installation of valves in a plant is too commonly a matter of price, of buying something apparently suitable
from a catalogue without due knowledge of the necessities of the case, and unsatisfactory service results.
a
Read Trade Mark
It will surely be admitted that the greatest proof of the value of an article is afforded by repeat orders unsolicited. That 18
experience with our PATENT LEAK-PROOF EVERLASTING VALVE. Such large users as the Colonial Sugar Refining
G. & C. Hoskins, Broken Hill Proprietary, and innumerable smaller concerns send us their orders for Everlasting whenever n
valves are required.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Sole Manufacturers, George Street, Camperdown, Sydney.
